
VOL. XXIII NO. 3 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 1990 ; THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Hussein will free women, children 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -Sad­

dam Hussein, in what Baghdad 
said was a sympathetic re­
sponse to hostages' pleas for 
their children's safety, an­
nounced Tuesday that foreign 
women and children would be 
allowed to leave Iraq. 
The dramatic announcement 

came hours after the Iraq 
president met with a group of 
foreigners who were trapped by 
Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of 
Kuwait. 
The official Iraqi News Agency, which carried the an­nouncement, said Saddam was moved by the foreign families' fears over their children's plight. 
"We hope it's true," State Department spokesman Mark Dillen said of the announce­ment. But, he noted, "We have seen promises and statements by Iraq in the past that have proven false." 
He said the department had received no official word of the Iraqi decision and was seeking more information through its embassy in Baghdad. 
Britain's Foreign Office, too, said it was seeking official con­firmation that women and chil­dren would be freed. "We would love to hear it," said a spokesman, who by custom was not identified. 
About 3,000 Americans and 3,300 Britons are among the 21,000 trapped Westerners trapped in Iraq and Kuwait. 
Saddam has vowed to use them 
as human shields against at­
tacks on Iraqi installations. 
British and U.S. officials say 
Iraq has moved more than 150 
Britons and more than 60 
Americans from Kuwait to 
strategic locations. 
A statement from the Iraq's 
ruling Revolutionary Command 
Council said the decision was 
made "to preserve the Arab 
humanitarian image," the offi­
cial Iraqi News Agency said. 
The agency, monitored in Ni­
cosia, said the Iraqi president 
decreed "that all women anrl children who are foreigners in Iraq are allowed to move freely in Iraq or to travel whenever they want starting tomorrow, including the families Iraq is hosting." 
Saddam has consistently re­ferred to the captive foreigners as guests, not hostages, and has told them their presence would help prevent all-out war from erupting. 
The news agency repeated that view. saying the foreigners were "prevented from traveling on humanitarian grounds aimed at fending off the fires of war and deterring those seek­ing to start it." 
But, it said: "We opted to preserve the Arab humanitar­ian image" by freeing the 
see IRAQ I page 4 

U of Florida death toll climbs, officials link mutilations to one killer 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. {AP) -ture, said a friend, Eric Two more bodies were Dunham, 22, of Sarasota. discovered Tuesday in this Paules was a pre-law senior university city. and police at the University of Florida linked them to the majoring in political science. mutilations of three women Gainesville Police Chief students whose deaths set Wayland Clifton said "all five off a wave of fear at the victims are probably start of the school year. connected to one suspect or 
"It's clear this part of the two suspects" because the country has some maniac on methods of the killer ap­the loose," University of peared similar. He didn't Florida President John Lom­elaborate. bardi said during a staff Mann was more cautious, meeting. "It reminds us of a but said there were simi­natural catastrophe. The larities in the slayings. He killer is selecting victims by said, however. that the most criteria that are not clear to 
recent victims weren't us." 
mutilated. The bodies of a man and a 
The Gainesville Sun 
woman were found together reported Tuesday that 
Tuesday morning at a mutilation of the first three 
student apartment complex bodies found was the 
near another complex where apparent connection. two bodies were discovered The Sun, quoting Sunday, said Alachua County unidentified sources, said Sheriffs Lt. Spencer Mann. Christa Hoyt, 18. was 
Police set up a command decapitated and that her post between those off­breasts and those of at least campus sites and about two one other victim were muti­
miles from the apartment lated. Police have refused to where a third body was comment on details of the discovered early Monday. mutilation. The two latest victims were "I don't think it takes a 
identified as Tracy Inez rocket scientist to figure out Paules, 23, and a 23-year-old that anybody that commits friend, Manuel Toboada, homicide using mutilation is both graduates of American a pretty sick individual, and High School in Miami. it's somebody we want to get Toboada had just been off the streets very badly," accepted at nearby Santa Fe said Mann, the Alachua Community College and was County sheriffs spokesman. planning to study architec-see DEATHS I page 4 
Hesbur~h ad for Philip Morris Inc. prompts complaints about his endorsing smoking 
By MONICA YANT 
Assistant News Editor 
A recent advertisement spon­sored by Philip Morris Companies Inc. featuring Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of the University, has sparked com­plaints from people who view the ad as an endorsement for cigarette smoking. 
The full-page ad, which ran in publications such as Newsweek, Time, and the New York Times, is actually supporting the National Archives' celebration of the 200th anniversary of the Bill of Rights. Hesburgh's photo runs alongside quoted material in which speaks of "the unfinished business of the Bill of Rights." 
Philip Morris Companies Inc. includes Kraft Foods, Miller Brewing Company and Philip Morris U.S.A., which produces Marlboro and Virginia Slims Cigarettes. 
Dick Conklin, director of Public Relations and Information, said his office re­ceived "a couple of complaints," and did not know how many Hesburgh received. 
Hesburgh is out of the coun­try until Sept. 4, his office said. He could not be reached by telephone for comment. 
The Observer received a letter from Dr. Richard Sandler, an assistant professor of Pediatrics at Rush Medical College in Chicago. 
Sandler's letter, dated July 3, expressed his concern about the context of the ad, and the implications that Hesburgh's association with a tobacco company raises. 

"On the face of it one can ar­

gue the moral correctness of a 
pre-eminent person such as 
Father Hesburgh speaking of 
'the unfinished business of the 
Bill of Rights," he wrote. 
"However, he is a man of great intelligence and wisdom. He knows well the importance of the context." 
According to Conklin, "the purpose of the endorsement was the Bill of Rights, not ci­garette smoking." 
Conklin described Hesburgh as "a man who's shed a lot of blood for the Bill of Rights in terms of his work on the Civil Rights Commission, President Ford's Amnesty Commission, and immigration issues." 
Sandler's letter outlined his complaint against the Philip Morris Company: that the to­bacco industry uses the 'First Amendment as argument against groups trying to limit the use and advertisement of its products. 
In a telephone interview with Sandler. he said, "the Bill of Rights is used as a pillar of their {tobacco companies) ra­tionalization and public rela­tion efforts to justify smoking." 
The fact that Hesburgh would appear in the ad also bothered Sandler. 
"Clearly. by permitting the use of his name in an adver­tisement on first amendment rights to be prominently spon­sored by a tobacco company, Father Hesburgh is lending his voice (and by extension that of the Church and of Notre Dame) to those of the nicotine drug companies," his letter said. 
"Their efforts, and now his, service to thwart critical public health endeavors." 
When interviewed, Sandler said, "it's a triple whammy to have the good name of the Church, Notre Dame, and Father Hesburgh be misled in this manner." 
According to Conklin, Hesburgh's appearance in the ad is not a University issue. "They were quoting Father Hesburgh, not the University," he said. 
Sandler also sent his letter to Hesburgh, he said, and received a response dated July 23. According to Sandler, the letter from Hesburgh said, "My only purpose was to promote the Bill of Rights as I have been doing most of mv life." 
"As to smoking cigarettes, I quit them 20 years ago," Hesburgh's letter said. 
Conklin said that the com­plaints his office received were aimed against cigarette smok­ing primarily. 
"The underlying motivation for all of them was that these are people who are against smoking and thought that Father Hesburgh's appearance in the ad was an endorsement of smoking," he said. 
see SMOKE I page 4 


Wednesday, August 29, 1990
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Dillon takes on a newer, prettier image 
I've lived in Dillon 
partying, lice-ridden Michael Muldoon 
Hall for two years, so  ~~~  
most  o'f  you  don't  'L ~,.,;!.~  
care to hear my sob story. But please  ~ ~~ ~~fA:-'  
throw  out  your  -:_  1..?1  
preconceptions of all  
Dillonites  as  nothing  '  
more than obnoxious,  .  

droolers, because Art Director only some of us are. My hall and its storied tradition are both in trouble. 
Late last year, rumors began flying around the Big Red about alleged renovations that were allegedly supposed to take place over the alleged summer. We were all pretty stoked about this, because the place had been virtually unchanged since the Leahy era. The dirt floors were kind of a homey touch, but when blood started seeping from the walls, our rector, Father 
Carey, decided it was time for a change. 
A crack team of master craftsmen was brought in for the job of bringing Dillon into the 1990's, or, at the very least, the 1950's. From what I've heard, they got the "This Old House" crew, as well as a special hole-digging unit from the University. Have you seen that canyon out by the stadium? I used to be able to park there, instesad of deep in the jungles of Mishawaka, but that's a different column for a different day. 
When I arrived on campus last week, these busy beavers were still there, putting on the finishing touches. Big ol' janitor butt dudes are always welcome in Dillon, and we were particularly glad to see that these guys were working so hard. The only problem was that they turned my building into a depraved cross between Pasquerilla West and Club Med. Don't get me wrong, it looks nice. It just doesn't look like Dillon. We have pretty purple carpet in the hallways. We have pretty new fire doors. We even have those little peg boards with our room number on them. 
Thankfully, the old spirit of Dillon lives in the ghettos at the back of the building. These sections of our home were left untouched over the summer, because they have bigger plans for next summer. They haven't decided whether they want more social space or a multi-level petting zoo. Some of my pals live in these ghettos (read: slums) by choice. The few poor freshmen who got stuck in there are subject to unmerciful ridicule from their classmates. Suggestions abound that SAT scores and/or sexual prowess determined freshmen room placement. 
Instead of publicly whining, I guess I should take pride in how my dorm looks, even if it is pretty. 
The ObserYer-­p 0. Box 0, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 Tuesday's Staff News Scoreboard 
Frank Pastor Monica Yant 
Mike Owen 
V"II!Wpllint 
Kevin Reisch Paige A. Smoron 
Accent 
Systems AtJ Design 
Cesar Capella Amy Eckert 
Mike Murphy 
Sports Graphics 
Michael Muldoon Scott Brutocao 
Circulation Lisa Eaton 
Production 
Bill O'Rourke Matt Novak 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Wednesday, Aug. 29. Lines show high temperatures. 
80 80 
Yesterday's High: 92 Yesterday's Low:72 Nation's High: 109 
(Needles, CA) Nation's Low: 34 (Craig, CO and West Yellowstone, Mont.) 
Forecast: Sunny and less humid today with a high of 80. Tonight will be clear with a low of 65. 

FRONTS: 
• •COLD  • • WARM  •• •STATIONARY  ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc.  
Pressure  
®  ©  ~'  ~  [I]  tz]A  ~  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  

OF INTEREST 

Notre Dame Communication and Any Junior interested in singing or playingTheatre will hold an organizational meeting/party for class mass on Sunday, Sept. 2 stop by the Junior Class tonight at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. Anyone interested in Office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune Student Center. participating in theatre productions this year is invited. 
NATIONAL 

Tornadoes ripped through several northern Illinois towns Tuesday, blowing residents out of apart­The California Assembly on Tuesday ment buildings and leveling at least 90 homes and a high soundly rejected a proposal which urged schools to teach school. At least 19 people were killed, authorities said. that the internment of Japanese-Americans during World 
Local hospitals said at least 280 people were being War II was a military necessity.The resolution, introduced treated for storm-caused injuries. The tornadoes touched 
by a legislator who served in the Marines, maintained it's down at least four times just after 3:30 p.m. CDT along a wrong to teach that Japanese-Americans were put in seven-mile southwesterly path from the community of 
"concentration camps." It portrayed the "relocation," as Plainfield to Joliet, about 40 miles southwest of Chicago, 
it was called at the time, as a reasonable reaction of peo­Illinois State Police said. 
ple frightened by Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor. 
President Bush, applauded 
The United Auto Workers union will focus na­by Congress for his Persian Gulf strat­tional.contract bargaining on General Motors Corp., the egy, warned Iraq on Tuesday that it worlds largest and most profitable automaker, union will pay a stiff price for occupying President Owen Bieber said Tuesday. Contracts between Kuwait and "an even stiffer price" by the union and the Big Three automakers cover more than broadening the conflict. "Let no one 450,000 workers and expire Sept. 14. Under pattern bar­abroad doubt our national unity or gaining, the union will negotiate with GM until it reaches our staying power," Bush said. The an agreement, and then use that as a model in negotiating White with the other two automakers. House reacted cautiously to an announcement from Iraq that all women and children for­eigners would be allowed to leave the country 
CAMPUS 

Timothy Rippinger has been appointed Notre Jacob Javits Fellowships have been Dame's regional director of development for the south-awarded to John Groppe Sniegocki of North Little Rock, eastern states, according to Joseph Sandman, director of Ark., and Christopher Murphy of Dallas, Texas, for study development. Rippinger's base will be the University's re-at the University of Notre Dame this fall. Sniegocki, who cently opened development office in Atlanta, and he will be was graduated from Earlham College in 1985, intends to responsible for Notre Dame's development efforts in a pursue a master's degree in theology. Murphy, who was region including Alabama, the District of Columbia, graduated from the University of Texas at Austin in 1988, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North is in his second year of graduate study in philosophy at Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. Notre Dame. The Jacob K. Javits Fellows Program, ad­
ministered by the U. S. Department of Education's Divi­
sion of Higher Education, provides financial assistance 
for distinguished graduates who wish to do postgraduate 
studies in the arts, humanities, or social service. 
INDIANA 

College students returned to cam­
Volume in shares

puses over the weekend and Indiana State Excise 
127.65 Million
Police officers were right behind them, arresting 167 underage drinkers and citing seven busi­nesses, authorities said Monday. The weekend sweep in Bloomington, West Lafayette, Muncie, 
NYSE Index 

Terre Haute, Evansville and Vincennes represents 
194.90 -t 5.13
the latest crackdown in Operation SUDS, or Stop 
S&P Composite 

Underage Drinking and Sales, said Sgt. Terry 
321.34 • 0.10
Bauer of the excise police. 
Dow Jones Industrials 2,614.85 +3.22 A single pill might provide patients of the 
Precious Metals

future with enough medicine for an entire week 
Gold +$4.1 oto $385.00/ oz. 
under a new drug-delivery system being developed by Purdue University researchers. Kinam Park, 
Silver +0.80¢ to $4.840 1oz. 

an associate professor of industrial and physical pharmacy and a member of the research team, presented findings Monday on the new system, called a hydrogel, at the annual meeting of the American Chemical Society in Washington. 
ALMANAC 
On August 29: 

e In 1922: Mushroom fungus reported seriously threatening the Palace of Versailles in Paris. 
e In 1941: Hitler and Mussolini meet in Berlin to form plans to counter 
U.S. aid to Allies. e In 1967: In Cairo, 150 military officers are arrested in a plot to 
overthrow Nasser. 

• e In 1973: Sirica in Washington calls for surrender of Watergate tapes, but Nixon refuses. 
• Ten Years Ago: In the United States, Abscam jury convicts Myers and co-defendants on all charges. 

--~--~-~--­
Wednesday, August 29, 1990 
Saint Mary's student Baer dies in bicycle accident 
By KATIE MOORE 
News Writer 
Elizabeth Baer, a sophomore­to-be at Saint Mary's College, died the morning of Friday, June 9, from head injuries sus­tained in a bicycle accident. 
Baer, 19, and a friend were riding their bicycles to meet a high school friend of Baer's the evening of Thursday, June 8. Baer was riding down a hill when she was distracted and collided with her friend's bicy­cle. Baer's friend was un­harmed. 
Despite efforts to revive Baer, she was pronounced brain dead the next morning at Munson Medical Center in Traverse City, Michigan. 
Nancy Boehuer, who was to be her roommate this year, de­scribed Baer as " A blast, a riot. She was always up. She worked hard for everything." 
A crew member of Dance '90, Baer also had plans to join The Observer this year. 
Baer is survived by her par-



Give. 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 

Elizabeth Baer 
ents, Mary Ann and Robert, two brothers, Robert and John, and a sister, Nancy. 
A memorial mass is being planned for both Baer and Regina Symonds, the second Saint Mary's sophomore-to-b~ killed during the summer vaca­tion. 
In addition, the four women who were to be Baer's room­mates are planning a prayer service for close friends of Baer's. 
•
American Heart ft Association V 

is looking for interested Saint Mary's students to be part of the 


Saint Mary's Staff 
If you are interested, please contact Corinne Pavlis at 277-8921 or come to an organizational meeting on Monday, September 3 in Haggar Parlor. Many positions, both paid and non-paid, are available. Freshman and newcomers welcome. 

preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. Our 15AT prep will open your eyes with score-raising strategies and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material 
is based on the "new" LSAT. And you can review lessons, and get additional help as needed in our TEST-N-TAP? lab, open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. 
And watch the scales tip in your favot 
liSTANLEY H. KAPlAN 
£Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 

The Observer page 3 
Sacred Heart receives facelift, opens for mass after 15 months 

By L. PETER YOB 
News Writer 
Students returning to school this week found a newly opened Sacred Heart Church. which had been closed for 15 months while undergoing a $7 million ren­ovation. 
The church's reopening on August 16 was marked by a mass celebrating the 102nd anniversary of Sacred Heart's consecration. 
Those who haven't yet vis­ited the church this fall can expect to see "quite a drastic change," according to Don Dedrick, director of physical plant and maintenance cen­ter. The main focus of the project was to "try to re­store the church to the pe­riod when it was built," he said. 
Original construction on the church began in 1870 and the cornerstone was placed in 1871. Mass was first celebrated at Sacred Heart in 1875 and the Church was concercrated in 188 8 by Bishop Joseph Dwenger of Fort Wayne. 
Dedrick said that the cur­rent renovation has been a two year project that in­cluded replacement of the 
is now accepting applications for 

Typists and Day Editors 
For further information, please contact Cathy Meere at 273-9624 or 239-5303. 

is looking for: 

Advertising Representitives and Advertising Clerks 
Please call Beth Bolger at 239-6900 or 288-0597 for more information. 
roof and the addition of new slate on the steeple. 
There was also a restora­tion of the wall and ceiling paintings, exterior frescoes and decorative plaster. New pews were added as well as new stencils on the ceiling. The interior of the church contains new guilding and stenciled ribs. 
The stained glass is still being restored and should be finished by Christmas, he said. 
The church aiso has a new heating and air-conditioning system, a new sound system and increased fire orotec­tion. Dedrick said that Sa­cred Heart now has a new "computerized lighting sys-tern to highlight the ceil­ings." 
Ayad Al-Shaikh, a law stu­dent who remembers Sacred Heart as it was before the renovation, praised the changes. "I think they did excellent work restoring the church to its original Gothic style," he said. "The added guilding and the details on the pews restore the grandure of the church." 
"Now, the themes are not mixed, but are consistent throughout the church," he said. 


JOB OPPORTUNITY 
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT through NO SECURITY DEPARTMENT -variety of jobs -flexible hours 
Apply TODAY at the Campus Security 
Building (former ROTC building) 
Father Daniel Jenky, the rector of Sacred Heart Church, explained the church's Gothic Revival style. "The idea is, when you wor­ship on Earth you get a taste of heaven," he said, refer­ring to the ornate guilding and awe-inspiring paintings. 
Jenky said that the church has the largest and most well preserved collection of 19th century stained glass in the world. 
The church is "not the kind of Gothic church you would see in Europe," he said. Ac­cording to Jenky, the Sacred Heart Church differs from those in Europe because of the material it is made out of, not stone but instead mud bricks. Some people refer to this style as Prarie Gothic, he said. 
Despite the ornateness and grandure of the newly reno­vated church, Father Jenky stresses that it is used for worship. 
"Worship and God are a priority at Notre Dame em­bodied in that building," Jenky said, referring to Sa­cred Heart. "As important as that building is, what is important is the worship that occurs there." 


Jet crash kills 10 on way to Iraq 
WEST BERLIN (AP) -A huge 
U.S. Air Force plane that was ferrying equipment to U.S. forces in the Persian Gulf crashed and burned early Wednesday at the Ramstein Air Base in West Germany, a U.S. military spokesman said. Ten service members were con­firmed dead. 
Air Force spokesman Doug Moore said the C-5 cargo plane was part of the round-the-clock deployment of U.S. troops and supplies to Saudi Arabia and the gulf to deter Iraqi aggres­sion. He did not elaborate. 
Moore said that there were ten confirmed deaths among the military personnel on board, while two people were unaccounted for several hours after the accident. He said five people were in the hospital. 
Another Air Force spokesman, Capt. Ed Worley, said: "There were some deaths and some people are in the hospital, but we don't have the numbers sorted out yet." 
He said the cargo plane, headed to Frankfurt's Rhein­Main base, crashed and burned one-quarter mile from the run­way at 12:30 a.m. Wednesday. 
"It crashed in a field right off the west end of the runway," Worley told The Associated Press by telephone from Ramstein, about 300 miles southwest of Berlin. "We don't expect any civilian casualties." 
Worley said the C-5 belonged to the 60th Airlift Wing at Travis Air Force Base in California. He said it was flown by a crew from Kelly Air Force Base in Texas. 
The C-5 is the largest trans­port plane in the Air Force fleet. A military reference book. Jane's All the World's Aircraft, says the C-5 can carry up to about a quarter-million pounds of cargo. 
Worley said he did not know what kind of cargo it was car­rying and added that a boarrl of officers will investigate the fiery crash. 
----·-~--:-------------------------------------~-------------~ 
---~-.. 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, August 29, 1990 

Smoke 
continued from page1 
Sandler shares a similar view against smoking. His letter 
said,  "Tobacco  smoke  kills  
more  people  in  this  country  
than  any  other  identifiable  

cause-some 350,000 deaths each year from excess strokes, heart disease, and cancers ac­cording to the Surgeon General." 
According to Taggarty Patrick, a Philip Morris Companies Inc. consultant for the Bill of Rights campaign, Hesburgh and others appearing in the ads were offered a "small honorarium" which they could accept or donate to charity. 
While Patrick could not reveal the amount of the honorarium, she did say that Hesburgh "definitely accepted for a char­ity." 
Conklin confirmed that Hesburgh donated the honorar­ium to a Notre Dame institute. 
Other prominent figures ap­pearing in the campaign include Lech Walesa and Charlton Heston. 
Patrick said that her office has received no specific com­plaints about the Hesburgh ad, but that she has seen "a few ed­itorial comments." 
The ad campaign was gener­ated from the National Archives' invitation to several companies to help celebrate the anniversary of the Bill of Rights. According to Patrick, Philip Morris Companies Inc. was the only company to re­spond. 
According to a press release from Philip Morris Companies Inc., the phase of the ad cam­
paign in which Hesburgh ap­pears "uses personal stories to convey the enduring value and impact of the Bill of Rights in 1990." 
"These individuals have lived extraordinary lives. Their sto­ries embody the Bill of Rights as a living document-as rele­vant today as it was 200 years ago," the press release said. 
Each of the ads offers a free replica of the Bill of Rights through an 800 number. Patrick said that the company has received three million re­quests for a copy of the docu­ment. 
Philip Morris Companies Inc. is the largest consumer pack­aged goods company in the world, Patrick said. 


DRIVE STRAIGHT,
INDIANA. 
''' ,, IIJ 
~,:.~
Give to the United Way. 
~ 
United way
•
It bri~ out the best in all of us.· 



Deaths 
continued from page 1 
"It looks like it's a part of a serial killer," State Chancellor Charles Reed said earlier in Tallahassee. 
Some students fled home, 
while others' parents rushed 


Iraq 
continued from page 1 
women and children. 
Western nations have de­nounced the detentions as hostage-holding. 
The news agency said the de­cision was effective Wednesday. It was not clear whether it in­cluded foreigner women and children trapped in Kuwait, which Baghdad now considers part of Iraq. It was also not known how many of the trapped foreigners are women and children. 
In the televised meeting with Western captives at an undis­closed location, Saddam told the group: "I appreciate your feelings, which probably make you feel restricted because you are not allowed to go." 
"If I were in your place or my 
"The unfinished business ofthe Bill ofRights..:' 
IH\'f.ki'"OilTIIf!ll'ltlllt\4 H1.,111:1u,11 c ~~ 
I'll/-:)< I I )f.:-II I'Mr MI I 1 ~, 
1'"1\'IR."II'Ytll \lilrlllll""'l 
''Wt.· tc:nU ro forAc:t thattht· Rill of Right' was nor ;t real it\' lor man~· people hefon~ rh(' Civi'l Righrs lawsoftht· mid-(>0'!\ 
"A ccmuryc:arlier. President 
lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. But slavery didn't reallv end for another 100 wars. 
"The fact is that the Ri(l of Right5 did not automatically guarantee life, Iibert)', and the 
pursuit of happiness for all Americans. We have had to 
enlarge our freedoms, promote: human dignity. and eliminate injustit:c during all the 200 vears 
of the Rill of RighL• · 
"The: ideal is tht'rc. hm the reality has always nccdt.·d c:nl;trJ!­ing II still does.'' 

here to guard their children. Some students said the slayings were reminiscent of those by executed serial killer Ted Bundy. 
Gov. Bob Martinez ordered 50 state troopers and Florida De­partment Law Enforcement agents and two crime labs to Gainesville. 
family was in your place, I'd have the same feelings," said Saddam, shown wearing a light-colored double-breasted suit, sitting in an armchair be­side a coffee table laden with flowers. 
Some of the foreigners were allowed to ask questions, and they expressed concern about children being held. 
One of the hostages shown was American Kevin Bazner, according to his sister, Patricia Heath of Farmington Hills, Mich. Bazner, his British wife, Dawn, and their two children were stranded when the plane they were aboard made a refu­eling stop in Kuwait during the invasion. 
''I'm glad I got to see my brother. I'm glad he's safe. I hope Dawn and the kids are safe, too," Heath told Cable News Network. 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
lll•Ott·IIIOI.AU 

Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 

AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD 
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please aSk tor John O'Maley. 

is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Associate News Editors 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 3 p.m. Friday, August 31 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 

Local Osco slayings remain unanswered 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­Police offered little hope Monday for a quick arrest in the slayings of three Osco drug store employees, saying they have no suspect and just speculations about the crime. 
Detective Michael Swanson nevertheless called the case "extremely solvable" and said investigators were pursuing a thick stack of tips. 
Crime scene technicians spent a third day searching the westside store for clues, and may spend several more days there collecting evidence, said Police Chief Ron Marciniak. 
"We're taking our time and in essence, we're going from floor to ceiling in that building," the chief said. "We don't want to leave any stone unturned while we have control of the building." 
Pharmacist Tracy Holvoet, 24, of Mishawaka, assistant manager Scott Dick, 26, of Granger, and clerk Connie Zalewski, 43, of South Bend were found shot to death in the store Saturday morning. 
The fatal wounds were caused by a handgun which has not been recovered, police said. 
Police said cash, though not drugs, was missing from the store but otherwise released few details and declined to speculate how the crime may have occurred. "The evidence tells a lot of stories," said Swanson. 
Investigators have already received "numerous, numerous" tips, he said. "We're getting a lot of random information. Hopefully some of that will jell." 
Mayor Joe Kernan said the slayings "sent ripples of disgust and sadness" through the city. "I cannot describe the sorrow that is felt in this community because of what happened on Saturday," he said. 

Arctic could yield oil Exploration a possibility 
RENO, Nev. (AP)-Oil explo­ration in an Alaska wildlife refuge could help boost domes­tic production in response to the Persian Gulf crisis, U.S. Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan said Tuesday. 
"There is no reason why we should not explore in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge," Lujan said. "It's self-defeating not to have production." 
"The less production, the more tankers you have. Oil spills are due to tankers collid­ing," said the secretary, who was making a working vacation swing through the West. 
A number of spills, including one in 1969 off Santa Barbara, Calif., and the 1987 Pemex spill in the Gulf of Mexico, have come from offshore oil rigs, and others have involved pipelines. 
Lujan said one possibility was limited exploration in 1 million acres of the 18 million-acre refuge in Alaska's northeast corner east of Prudhoe Bay, the site of North America's largest oil discovery. 
Alaska's top elected officials also have endorsed exploration in the refuge following the Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait by Iraq. 
At a U.S. Energy Department hearing on long-range energy planning in Fairbanks on Monday, Alaska Gov. Steve Cowper, a Democrat, and Republicans Sen. Ted Stevens and Rep. Don Young testified in favor of granting leases for oil exploration in the refuge. 
The refuge was established in 1960 and enlarged in 1980 to protect caribou and other wildlife species. When Congress expanded the refuge, it post­poned any decision about oil exploration. 
Environmentalists said drilling in the refuge is not the solution to the nation's appetite for foreign oil. 

-Ibe-O.bs----. ---e~~·-.L-=Y-=-..__.___ 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 


Business Editor 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 3 p.m. Friday, August 31 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 

-----~--~---­
Wednesday, August 29, 1990 
Mellon Foundation gives ND $385k for research 

Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $385,000 grant from the Andrew Mellon Foun­dation for its Helen Kellogg In­stitute for International Stud­ies. 
The funds will support an in­ternational research project entitled "Social Policies for the Urban Poor in Southern Latin America: Welfare Reform in a Democratic Context." 
Under the direction of 
-Guillermo O'Donnell, academic director of the Kellogg Insti­tute, participating scholars will analyze past, present and pro­posed social policies· relating to poor people in major countries of South America, particularly in Chile and Brazil. 
"We are grateful to the An­drew Mellon Foundation for this benefaction and proud of its recognition of the estimable reputation which the Kellogg Institute enjoys both here and in Latin America," said Univer­sity president Father Edward Malloy. 

Father Ernest Bartell, execu­tive director of the Kellogg In­stitute, emphasized the urgency of the research made possible by the Mellon grant. 
"At a time when the fragile new democracies of Latin America, while burdened by in­ternational debt and increased economic competition, must strive to realize the expecta­tions of previously repressed populations, the best mix of policies to alleviate poverty and meet basic human needs has yet to be determined," he said. 
The Kellogg Institute, estab­lished at Notre Dame in 1981, conducts research and aca­demic programs on a variety Of international development is­sues with a special emphasis on those of Latin American coun­tries. 
American Heart Association 


The University Libraries of Notre Dame welcome the Class of '94 and all other new and returning members of the Notre Dame community. 
We are happy to announce that for your convenience and while classes are in session Hesburgh Library building hours have been extended to: 

2:00a.m. 

For Orientation Tours or VNLOC Instruction inquire at Hesburgh Library Reference Desk: 
-~.· 
239..6258 

----l51S-N;rth M~l~ Str~et  - ~  
iC Mishawakat Hou<s?3§n29:f?~_?d~aweek  ~ ~  
_..,.  e~.  ?~. e~v.t  ~  
~  WASHERS ONLY 85¢  ~  
iCiC  Mon. + Fri. : FREE Tide in every wash Every Day : Drop-off-$.40 per pound Thursday: Tanning-$3.00 per session  ~ iC  
iCiC  c . t "k fonvemen p1c -up and de 1very to your dorm room. Dorm discounts available.  iC :i(  

******************* 

Washington Hall 
University ofNotre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5956 
Washington Hall Job Openings 
Two student employment positions are open. 
• 
Student workers at Washington Hall work 10 hours per week, evenings and weekends. 

• 
Technical Theatre experience is a plus. 

• 
Knowledge of Macintosh computer and programs: Word, PFS:File, FileMaker II, Excel, and PageMaker a plus. 


Interested students should contact Tom 
Barkes at Washington Hall or call239-5956. 
page 6 
Etzel wins Fulbright for 1990-91 
Special to The Observer 
Michael Etzel, professor of marketing at the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholar grant for 1990-91. Etzel will use the grant to support his lecturing and research at the University of Innsbruck in Austria from September of this year until January, 1991. 
Etzel is one of the nearly 1,000 American Fulbright scholars who will go abroad to lecture or conduct re­search during the 1990-91 academic year. 
Established in 1946 under Congressional legislation introduced by Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas, the Fulbright Scholar program is intended "to increase mutual under­standing between the people of the United States and the people of other countries." Program grants are awarded to Americans to lecture and conduct research abroad and to foreign schol­ars who wish to teach and study in the United States. 
More than 25,000 Ameri­can scholars have partici­pated in the Fulbright pro­gram. 
Etzel, a member of the University's business faculty since 1980, was graduated from the University of Port­land in 1964 and received master's and doctoral de­grees from Kent State Uni­versity and the University of Colorado, respectively. Be­fore coming to Notre Dame, he taught at the University of Kentucky and Utah State University. 
In 1985, he published, with John Gaski, associate pro­fessor of marketing at Notre Dame, a widely read article in the Journal of Social Be­havior and Personality asserting that there is no correlation between athletic success and mnnf1t.ary dona­
tions to universities. 

DRIVE STRAIGHT,




INDIANA. 
HELP WANTED 
1. 
Would you lll<e to wort< for youroolf? 

2. 
Would you llko to oot your own houro? 

3. 
Aro you ooH-motlvatod? 

4. 
Aro you abH of an ontroponour1 


If you anoworod YES to all of tho above, you aro )ulf tho poroon wo'ro looking fori Ao an Amerlun PIDIII Cernpua Rep­rneniiUn. you will bo rooponolblo for placing advortlolng on bulletin boardo. You will oloo havolho opportunity to wort on mart<lflng programo for ouch clfonto ao Amorlcan Exprooo, Ford, and Bolton Unlvorolty. Thoro aro no ooloo Involved. Many of our rope lfay wllh uo long aftor g111duation. Formoro lnfonnatlon, call or wrlto uo at tho following addron: 
AMERICAN PASSAGE NETWORK 

·''1!111!1111111:·::;::
Z11 Well Htrrl­lullle, WA 81111...t107 
The Observer 

DeKierk vows to investigate police role in recent killings 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -President F.W. de Klerk told church leaders Tuesday he would investigate charges that police sided against supporters of the African National Congress in recent township violence. 
Black leaders have blamed police for fueling the two weeks of savage street fights in black townships around Johannesburg that killed more than 500 people. 
Police said two black men were killed in unrest Tuesday, but the townships were peaceful for a fourth straight day following a government crack­down. 
Also Tuesday, police raided the headquarters of South Africa's largest labor federa­tion and arrested its secretary general, Jay Naidoo, and two others. The three were charged with kidnapping, robbery and assault. All three were later re­leased on bail, and Naidoo de­nied the charges. 
The raid followed a news conference at Naidoo's Congress of South African Trade Unions, where officials presented a man they said had been spying for the police, the 

independent South African 
Press Association reported. 
A delegation of church lead­
ers, including Anglican 
Archbishop Desmond Tutu and 
the Rev. Frank Chikane, head of 
the South African Council of 
Churches, met in Pretoria with 
de Klerk and Adriaan Vlok, the 
law and order minister. 
After the two-hour meeting, Chikane told journalists the president had pledged to inves­tigate charges that police aided Zulu-based Inkatha supporters in the fighting against Xhosas and other blacks loyal to the African National Congress. 
ANC leader Nelson Mandela, Tutu and other anti-apartheid figures have said police bias toward Inkatha inflamed the situation. They accused police of disarming and scattering ANC supporters while allowing Zulus to carry crude weapons considered part of their tribal heritage and costume. 
Government officials have denied the charges. De Klerk has previously said individual officers may have acted im­properly, but the police force as a whole followed orders to be impartial. 
Wednesday, August 29, 1990 


Circus in town 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

Members of the Royal Liechtenstein Circus performed amazing feats such as this goat barrel roll for a crowd of students Tues­day. The show was later interrupted by a thunderstorm. 


MovelOyears aheadofthe class. 


The new HP 48SX and a free 'library card' can get you there. 
With over 2100 built-in functions, our new HP 48SX Scientific Expandable calculator takes a quantum leap into the 21st century. Buy an HP 48SX between August 15 and October 15, 1990, and HP will send you a free HP Solve Equation Library card (a $99.95 retail value). 
The plug-in application card alone contains more than 300 science and engineering equations, as well as the periodic table, a constants' library, and a multi-equation solver. It's like having a stack of reference books right at your fingertips. 
The HP 48SX calculator is so advanced; it will change the way you solve prob: !ems forever. It integrates graphics with calculus, lets you enter equations the way you write them, and does automatic unit management. 
Check your campus bookstore or HP retailer for HP's range ofcalculators and special back-to-school offers. Then check out the calculators that are years ahead of their class. 
There is a better way. 
rf/o-HEWLETT 
~~PACKARD 
Wednesday, August 29, 1990 

The Observer page 7 
Law School buys Chicago library, will add materials to own collection 
Special to The Observer Bar Association relocated next will be a continuing asset in bar associa~ion publications out-of-print texts representing to the John Marshall Law support of law school faculty also are heavily represented. much of the significant legal The University of Notre Dame School and will contract for li-and students, increasing the in-publishing from the first half of 
Law School has purchased the brary services there. tensity of legal research." Additionally included are long this century. 
library of the Chicago Bar "This collection provides a runs of unique periodicals and 
Association, a highly coveted li-unique opportunity to expand Among the volumes acquired reports of national and state Selected runs of government 
brary of 150,000. the depth and breadth of the are extensive runs of long-law reform commissions and publications and task force re­The collection was purchased Kresge Law Library," said sought-after primary and sec-other specialized institutes and ports no longer available in for $300,000. The collection Roger Jacobs, director of the ondary state legal collections. centers, as well as an outstand­published formats were also in­was sold because the Chicago Law School Kresge Library. "It Court reports, statutes, and ing collection of unique and cluded. 
Liberty 
closed by 

activists 
NEW YORK (AP) -Black ac­tivists Tuesday pitched tents on Liberty Island, forcing the clos­ing of the Statue of Liberty, to 

· mark the anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech. 
They also said they want to rename the city for the slain civil rights leader. 
Separately, black construc­tion workers drove a honking caravan of trucks and backhoes to City Hall in a demand for more jobs. 
The Rev. AI Sharpton, a flam­boyant and controversial ac­tivist, and Lenora Fulani, who is running for governor on the New Alliance Party ticket, led about 100 people from City Hall down Broadway to Battery Park City, a skyscraper devel­opment at the lower tip of Manhattan. 
"We want to rename New York City Martin Luther King City," Fulani said at a rally at Battery Park City. "We want to reclaim the city for our people." 
They later headed out to Liberty Island, where Sharpton and an estimated 40 to 80 sup­porters forced the closing of the Statue of Liberty, said spokesman Manny Strilmp of the National Park Service. The demonstrators pitched tents there in support of the home­less, said Sharpton ally C. Vernon Mason. 
Strump said city police, na­tional park police and members of the Coast Guard were on the island, but no decision had been made as of late afternoon on dealing with the protest. 
He said the island was closed for the remainder of the day ­it normally closes at 5 p.m. ­and tourists who were on the island were taken off. 
On Aug. 28, 1963, King gave his "I Have a Dream" speech before 200,000 people in Washington. 



DRIVE STRAIGHT,
INDIANA. 


famous face and the two others from our newspaper campaign, that could translate into a$1,000 scholarship for next semester from Russell Athletic.* Visit JACC Ice Arena for details and entry forms. 
*Ifyou are agraduating senior and win the sweepstakes, you will receive $1000 credit on your tuition. 

"·',,~
T~ch•~
Give to the United Way . 
... 

Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, August 29, 1990 
c--
Ib_-e-o~~:--~-~~er­
---~i.Dl:A.-=:Y~ --­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ..••........... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .....•.............••..•. Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 


Differences abound between recent inVasions 
In recent weeks, a number of George Bush's critics have claimed that Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait was the same as George Bush's invasion of Panama. Thus, say the crit­ics, Bush's attacks on Hussein are hypocritical; the pot is call­ing the kettle black. While this argument is superficially logi­cal, it is wrong for at least three reasons. 
On the surface, the American invasion of Panama and the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait are a lot alike. A large and militarily strong country launches a lightning invasion of a smaller neighbor and quickly gains vic­tory. The large country ignores criticism from abroad and sets up a friendly government in the small country. Meanwhile, the small country's weak neighbors look on in frightened silence. The similarity, however, ends here. 
The first major difference between the invasions of Kuwait and Panama is that America showed a great deal more respect for the Panamanian people than Iraq did for the Kuwaitis. The American invasion reflected the will of the Panamanian people (92 percent supported it, ac­cording to a Gallup poll). The Americans scrupulously avoided killing civilians. The Americans promptly placed in power the democratically elected leaders of Panama. 
The Iraqi invasion, on the other hand, clearly went 
In My Opinion Rick Acker 
against the will of the Kuwaiti people (e.g. the numerous anti­Iraqi demonstrations by Kuwaiti expatriates). The Iraqis, according to one Western diplomat, "littered the streets of Kuwait city" with dead civilians. The Iraqis de­posed the undemocratic, but popular, emir of Kuwait, mur­dered his brother and replaced him with a brutal puppet regime loyal to Baghdad. 
Second, America had a legit­imate national security problem in Panama, while Iraq could not have asked for a better neigh­bor than Kuwait. General Noriega provided arms to anti­American guerillas in El Salvador, provided numerous services for South American drug kingpins, and repeatedly threatened to use military force against Americans living in Panama. Kuwait, however, gave Iraq $8-10 billion in war loans, was Iraq's steadfast ally in the Iran-Iraq war and offered Iraq dirt cheap leases on Kuwaiti oil terminals. 
Third, America respected the national sovereignty of Panama, while Iraq has not re­spected Kuwait's. When America invaded Panama, it did not seek to extract any conces­sions from Panama, such as a new lease on the Panama Canal 
Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety of issues. If you have something to say, bring your written thoughts to the Observer offices located on the third floor of LaFortune, or send them to: Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
DOONESBURY 

or a new military base. In fact, America responded to the inva­sion by giving Panama over $100 million in aid. Iraq, on the other hand, raped and then swallowed Kuwait. According to one foreigner who escaped after the invasion, Iraqi sol­diers stole "everything that wasn't bolted down: cars, household goods, computers, everything." Iraq recently an­nounced that all the deposits in the Bank of Kuwait ($3-4 billion) were being "given to the motherland (Iraq)." 
Within a month of the inva­sion of Panama, most American troops had gone home. More than a month after the invasion of Kuwait, not a single Iraqi soldier has been pulled out. According to news reports, the Iraqis have actually been send­ing more troops and weapons into Kuwait. Moreover, Panama is still an independent nation, not a part of the United States. 
Kuwait, though, has been "irreversibly and permanently annexed" by Iraq. 
The facts are clear. The American invasion of Panama was fully justified in its goals and execution. The Iraqi inva­sion of Kuwait was, in President Bush's words, an act of "naked aggression." 
Rick Acker is a second year law student. 


Formal apology ordered in Crounse case 
Dear Editor: player, going into the trunk of 
Eight months ago, some the car. At that time, I pulled Notre Dame students and some out a .25 caliber semi-auto­high school kids were engaging matic handgun. The man, who in a rather violent confronta­I now know as Michael tion in front of Bridget Crounse, began coming to­McGuire's. I, Anthony Darden, wards me with the object--a noticed the situation and ad­jack handle--he obtained from vised the younger kids to get the trunk. I fired the gun one away from the bar. time in the air, and Mr. Crounse kept coming towards me. I then fired the gun a third time
When I approached the bar, I 
at Mr. Crounse, and he still
was immediatley referred to as 
continued towards me. At that
a "nigger" by several Notre 
time, an acquaintance grabbed 
Dame students. Many racist 
me, and we left.
and derogatory statements were made, and I found myself arguing with the students. The Deputy Prosecutor, in a 
I then noticed a rather large plea bargain, guaranteed no guy, presumably a football jail time. I was also told that I would receive probation with no community service or any­thing else. Judge Freese sen­tenced me to three years proba­tion and 250 hours of commu­nity service and ordered me to write this letter of apology. I was ordered to apologize to Mr. Crounse as well as the community. I, Anthony Darden, now extend an apology to Michael Crounse, his family and the community for any inconve­nience I have caused. 
Anthony Darden South Bend, IN May 18, 1990 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
IN 7H!:3 U6HT a= 7HAT, ISN'T 
ITPOS518le 7HAT SCIE-tsT!ZM 
1'3/V'TCAU51-1L ATAU, 8UT 
SIMPl-Y 77-lt: HAPPY 5/[Jt;. &FF6CT OFA 5TUWY OiAR­ACT&R, 175E:1-F 7H/:3 PR.O{)(}Cf CFUNAM81GUOU5 MQii:4L WUCAT!a..l~ 
CAU-5C{lj/?JTY. H&MU5T£3t 
FROMWTOF 
5TATe."' 

'I never did anything worth doing by accident; nor did any of my inventions come by accident; they came by work.' 
Thomas A. Edison (1874-1931) 


r------­
Accent
Wednesday, August 29, 1990 page 9 
----------~---~------------~---~~-------------------­
Playing God 
'Fiatliners' see the face of death and live to tell about it 
ELIZABETH VIDA 
accent writer 

In a summer filled with blockbuster movies such as "Total Recall," "Dick Tracy," and "Die Hard 2," none offer as fascinating and horrifying a premise as Joel Schumacher's "Flatliners." 
Five ambitious medical stu­dents set up a chilling and dan­gerous experiment to see the face of death and live to tell about it. They are led on their experiment by Nelson Wright (Kiefer Sutherland). They take turns stopping their hearts un­til the monitors reading their vital signs indicate nothing but flat lines-no brain or heart ac­tivity. After a length of time spent experiencing death, the other team members attempt to revive the dead member. 
Schumacher directed "The Lost Boys," a movie about modern vampires, and "Flatliners" has the same dark visual feeL "Flatliners" doesn't and thirty seconds, as Nelson all like to know what's in store as David Labraccio was espe­experiences. A researcher o(shock with the gore of a did, the flatliners enter into a for us after we die. There have cially believable as a person near-deaths appeared on "Good 
slasher horror movie, but it perverse competition to see been thousands of reports from torn between his atheistic be­Morning America" recently and utilizes the suspense created by who can stay under longest, all over the world from those liefs and what he had experi­offered an explanation of the near-death experiences and the using their lives for the stakes. who have encountered 'near enced in death. long tunnel with a light at the nightmarish visions the main death' and most of them have end that seemed to appear in characters encounter when they Peter Filardi, the script reported pleasant experiences. The movie itself is very tight most of the positive near-death "flatline" to present a rather writer, researched published Our movie, however, is saying and focused; little or none of experiences. When the body is scary and bizarre scenario. accounts of near-death experi­that you're not to tamper with the action takes place outside hit with enough trauma, in Instead of an otherworldly, ences. When accident victims death. If there is anything we're of the actual flatlining or its order to deal with the physical beautiful passageway to were polled, almost all said supposed to learn about it, it aftermath. This lends an ap­shock, it simuiates the safety
heaven, movie viewers instead they had a positive experience will be revealed when we die." propriately tense atmosphere and comfort of a mother's 
see earthly flashes of the team of a tunnel leading to a beauti­to the film. The actual lab in womb. Except the only differ­
What happens in "Flatliners" 
member's lives, and the pictures fui white light. Yet people who which the flatlining occurs is a ence is that this light at the end 
viewed are not happy ones. attempted suicide experienced a when the team members tamper very gothic, dark room with re­of the tunnel signals another 
When they are revived, the past haunting and emotionally with death defmitely leads to ligious sculptures on the wall type of existence. sins encountered in the death painful series of images. This some nail-biting moments. Even overseeing the team members' Obviously, "Flatliners" is experience begin to appear in information gave some cre­though the flatlining scenes get attempts to play God. not a light comedy that youeveryday life. dence to the film's scenes, since pretty predictable, it gets scary The death sequences are also forget you saw by the next 
In addition to the obvious all of the flatlining that oc­as we slowly discover what very dark. Only when the flat­week. It is a good movie and if danger of permanent death, curred was voluntary. their real and imagined sins liners begin to atone for their it's a scary, provocative, well­each team member ups the ante Schumacher has said of the actually were. sins does light appear. made and intelligent semi-hor­
every time they flatline. Instead general themes brought up in All of the stars in the movie "Flatliners" has created an ror movie you're looking for, it of staying under a just a minute "Flatliners," "I think we would were effective, and Kevin Bacon interest in real life near-death fits the bill. 
Branda and Broderick brighten 'The Freshman' 
ROBYN SIMMONS is a very fresh and clever com­takes under his wing is Clark Shortly after Clark loses all that Clark will be her future assistant accent editor edy. Kellogg, played by Matthew of his worldly possessions, he husband. 
In "The Godfather" and "The Brando stars as Carmine Broderick. Clark is a freshman catches Victor with the stolen Godfather II." Marlon Brando Sabatini, a prominent New at the NYU film schooL He ar­goods, and demands that they The humor in this movie created one of his most memo­York importer with rather rives in New York City from be returned to him. But Victor ranges from the broad slap­rable characters. In Brando's questionable (and mysterious) Vermont and is conned out of has a better idea; he suggests stick comedy of the lizard on latest film, "The Freshman," business dealings and an un­his money and his luggage that Clark come to work for his the loose in the shopping mall, Brando pokes fun at the role canny resemblance to Don Vito when he meets Victor Ray Uncle Carmine. When Clark en­to the subtle and not-so-subtle that helped to establish him as Corleone of "Godfather" fame. (Bruno Kirby) in the train sta­ters the small Italian restau­allusions to Brando's role as a screen legend, and the resuit The "freshman" that Carmine tion. rant (with a poster of Benito Don Vito Corleone in the 
Mussolini on the wall) and finds "Godfather" movies. Both Victor's Uncle Carmine sitting Brando and Broderick are ex­at his own table in the back -cellent in their roles. Broderick room, he can't help but be re­is believable as the easy-going minded of a certain mob leader nice guy who becomes em­he's seen in the movies. broiled in Carmine's question­
able business dealings, andDuring their first meeting, Brando's imitation of his Carmine gives Clark a very spe­"Godfather" role provides somecial assignment: to deliver a of the biggest laughs in this very rare (and cumbersome) film.
lizard to a business associate's home in New Jersey. Clark gets his roommate to help him Brando probably won't get an transport the lizard, but it is Oscar for his role in "The only a matter of time before it Freshman," but he will get a lot gets loose and the boys find of laughs from the audience. themselves chasing the lizard "The Freshman" is a charming, 
through a crowded shopping light-hearted comedy and it mall, with the PA blaring, "Will definitely deserves to go to the the owner of the reptile please head of the class. 



report to the information desk?" 
As the story progresses, Clark finds himself becoming more deeply involved in Carmine's business affairs than he ever planned to be. An addi­tional complication arrives in the form of Carmine's beautifui daughter Tina (Penelope Ann Miller) who has already decided 
How was your summer? Did you have an internship, service project, or interesting job? We'd like to hear about it for a future Accent page. Drop a line in the Accent mailbox at the Observer, 3rd floor of LaFortune. please include your name and phone number. 
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, August 29, 1990 
I, 
I I I I I I 
I 
I 
Majkowski stays a holdout 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
GREEN BAY, Wis. (AP)-The turning down the request. 

Interested new sportswriters for Tickets for the 1990 Irish football 
attorney for holdout Green Bay "The same answer applies in 

the Observer should attend a meeting with season go on sale next week for Notre 
Packers quarterback Don Green Bay. The Vataha-Woolf 

the sports staff tonight at 7:30 p.m. at the Dame and St. Mary's students. Senior tickets 
Majkowski said Tuesday his proposal is rejected," Braatz 

Observer office. For more information call go on sale Monday, Sept. 3 at 9 a.m. Juniors 
client would be willing to play said. 

Greg Guffey at the Observer at 239-5303. can get their tickets Tuesday; Law and 
this season for the league min­"What (Majkowski) would 

graduate students can buy tickets 
imum of $80,000 if given the like to do is have us propose 

Anyone interested in trying out for the Wednesday; sophomoress on Thursday and 
opportunity to be an unre­that he play for the minimum 

wrestling team should meet at Coach Fran freshmen on Friday. Issue hours are 9 a.m. 
stricted free agent the following salary and he could take the 

McCann's office Friday at 3:30 p.m. on the to 8 p.m. Students can purchase tickets for 
year. chance of having to prove him­

second floor of the JACC, near the pool. the 6 homes games for $69. Ticket 
But a Packers executive self again if they could be nego­

applications will be mailed to students this 
quickly rejected the idea. tiating during the year," Woolf 

A mandatory varsity lacrosse week. 
Bob Woolf, Majkowski's said. 

meeting will be held tonight at 5 p.m. in 
the Loftus Auditorium. The first Off-Campus football
Boston-based agent, said talks 
with the Packers were at an ab­"He wants to stay in Green 

practice will be Thursday, August 30 at 5 
solute impasse. Bay but at the end of the year if 

A women's tennis walk-on tournament p.m. on Stepan Field for all interested off­
Woolf said he and agent he's still taking that risk, he 

will begin Friday. Anyone interested should campus students. If you have any questions 
Randy Vataha met with wants to be an unrestricted 

call Maureen McNamara at 239-5149. or unable to make the first practice, call Tom 
Helms or Shannon Fish at 287-2218.
Majkowski and the quarterback free agent. Then we will know 

Notre Dame graduate Rick
said he would be willing to play what the fair market value is." 

Wohlhuter was recently selected to the
for the league minimum this 

Track and Field Hall of Fame. A two-time Notre Dame Varsity Hockey -There
season, if the Packers continued From February until April of 

Olympian, Wohlhuter won the bronze medal will be a mandatory meeting for all those
to negotiate or gave him a this year, Majkowski was a re­

in the 800 meters in 1976. The '71 graduate trying out for the team at 4:30 p.m. Friday
chance at unrestricted free stricted free agent, meaning the 

broke the U.S. record for the 800 meters August 31st at the Football Auditorium in the 
agency next February. Packers could have matched 

twice, set records for the 880-yard race twice JACC.
Woolf said he sent the pro­any offer from another team 

and set the world record for the 1000 meters
posal on Tuesday to Packers for his services. Or they could 

in 1~7 4. Wohlhuter also won national The Notre Dame men's soccer
negotiator Tom Braatz, who is­have let him go ror two first­

outdoor titles in 1973 and '74. In 1974, he team has named John Stollmeyer assistant
sued an immediate reply. round draft choices. 

earned the Sullivan Award as the nation's top coach Stollmeyer was an All-American at
"This is the same request He received no offers and his 

amateur athlete. A two-time All-American Indiana University in 1982, '84 and '85,
that Lawrence Taylor and his rights returned to the Packers. 

while at Notre Dame, Wohlhuter was the leading the Hoosiers to national
agent Joe Courrege made of the He may be traded until the mid­

1970 NCAA champion in the 600-yard event, championships in '82 and '83. The midfielder
New York Giants last week," October deadline. 

and was a member of the two-mile relay team started in 99 consecutive games for Indiana
Braatz said. "George Young, 

which placed second nationally in 1969. and set a school record for career assists in
the Giants general manager, Majkowski and several other 

his senior year with 39. Stollmeyer recently 
replied, 'I do not want to be players have filed suit against 

Anyone interested in playing off­
started at midfield for the United States
named winner of the mayor's the NFL challenging the current 

campus soccer, call Dave at 233-9226 or 
World Cup team.
dumb bell of the year award,' in restrictions of free agency. 
Brian at 288-4724. 

Catholic in New Jersey and now York without spending too afford it. It was such a shock fences on the sabre squad, much money. Here (at Notre to Beshin that he is writing the seems even more confident Dame) you have to go all NCAA about the whole ordeal. 
Beshin 
continued from page 16 

than Beshin. around the country if you have "I haven't changed because I 
Hoping that more of "those "This is definitely going to be hopes of making the Olympic won the NCAA's," said Beshin. days" will come with more the year," said Taliaferro. "We team. "I'm not a big-headed guy or practice, Beshin and the rest ?f came so close last year, but it "He can't go to those anything, but I just feel that the team will return early this wasn't the one. It's like you can national competitions, and after winning an NCAA title I year for extra training, and the taste it in your mouth, you those opportunities would shouldn't be struggling to get drive seems to exist for know what I mean? I know ev­make him an even better back on my feet. I don't think 
winning a national title. erybody all wants it, that's a that's fair at all."
fencer." 

"If there's any year that fact. You can quote me." And having insult added to we're going to win the national And they're doing it the right profound accomplishment, Justice has prevailed so far, championship, it's going to be way with people like Beshin. Jubba almost did not return in that Beshin is back and this year," said Beshin. "Jubba was lucky," said this year because his financial ready for another champi­
Taliaferro, who fenced with DeCicco. "He lived on the East aid package was almost too onship season. Let's hope he Beshin in high school at Essex Coast, and although fencing skimpy for the Beshin family to stays here. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 

I BETH NEEDS TICKETS!!!II 
Need 2 Miami GA's OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS NEED A LOFT? I'VE GOT ONE
NOTICES FOR RENT Call Matt x3630 GRAD STUDENTS 
FOR YOU!III's sturdy, hand­Student tickets needed for 
FACULTY MEMBERS 

painted and only $35. If interested, Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and
TYPING AVAILABLE Okay, any student tickets for Purchase 'The Shirt" for $8 at the
AVAILABLE NOW· 5/6 bdrm., 2-call Michelle x3879. Air Force.
287-4082 Purdue, or any GA's for Michigan, SUB Secretary's Desk, 2nd floor
bath house. Newly Decorated. 

please call Paige at x2980. This is LaFortune. 
Secure House. Competitive Rent. 

Call Beth at 288-0597 234-6688, 234-5041 . 
Used Textbooks! TWIN BED LOFT FOR SALE. serious. 
25% OFF LIST PRICE PROFESIONALL Y MADE AND Pandora's Books READY TO ASSEMBLE. $100.00 
Have 2 STAN. GA's. Need 3 ROOM APTS., 2 PEOPLE PER All Graduate Student 
PURDUE GA's. Trade? 717-757­
PERSONALS
corner of ND ave. and Howard 289-8404 AFTER 5PM. 
Welcome back celebration APT. AT $200 EACH, UTILITIES 
1934, Bill.

233-2342 Friday, August 31, 8:00PM
INCLUDED. 315 N. TAYLOR, 282· Sofa & Chair Wilson Commons' Lounge 1014. 

Need two MIAMI tickets for BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION.LOST/FOUND $50 
long lost WEALTHY uncle Loving couple. both college 719 E. HOWARD. 2 OR 3 277-7406 287-3472 Scotty teachers, unable to have children. 
Announcement: Camp can now beBEDROOM. 1/2 MILE FROM Husband has adopted sisters. We
My blue Notre Dame bookbag BEST BUY ON CAMPUS found on East Marion, Napoleon, 
CAMPUS. ATIACHED GARAGE. 

TICKETS NEEDED!Ill are responsible, caring people 
was taken from a locker at •MUST SEE• and Dillon.
BIG EAT-IN KITCHEN. BIG LIVING 2 G.A.'s for MICHIGAN ready to share our love with athe bookstore on 8/24. II had REFRIGERATOR-$45

ROOM, BIG DINING ROOM. 2 G.A.'s + 1 Student ticket much wanted baby. Medical 
valuable files in it. If you RECLINER CHAIR
SCREENED IN PORCH. 277-4469 for Air Force expenses paid. Confidential and ARE YOU GAY, LESBIAN, ORcan help me lind this bookbag EXCELLENT CONDITION-1 YR.

RHONDA. 

273-9469 Diane legal. Please call collect anytime BISEXUAL? Student Discussion and its contents, please call ONLY $75 CALL X2051 •MUST SELL• except Tuesfrhurs. 317-743-4512. Groups meeting weekly. For time Desmond at 271-5693. No NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable and 
questions asked. DESPERATELY need 3 Michigan and place call Mike 237-0788. 
secure turn. aot: 755 South Bend tix and 3 Purdue tix. Stud/GA. hiag
78 Ford Fairmount 6 cylinder Ave., 1 bdrm. $265, dep., Aileen 259-9638. PLEASEIIII!I!I
automatic, no rust, good tires, references. 616-483-9572. 
BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 22· Mark 232·1846 
WANTED 
runs fine, $1275.00, call WANTED
Need $$$?Sell MO. CHILD. TUES-THURS. OR Campus rock band PHOENIX 2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 MINUTES your ga's to all MON.WED.FRI. OR M-F. 8-12:30.
WANTED-Subway delivery looking for lead singer. Classic
FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON home games. 234-8743.

driver/counterperson for Notre rock --no wimps!
425 MONTH+DEPOSIT 
Call tom x1897.

Dame & St. Mary's. Uniforms, ·l TICKETS 
232-3616

meals, and hourly bonus. call Peter x1414 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
Applicants must have dependable STEPHANIE PORTER andPARTIALLY FURNISHED HOME 

CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717-I NEED 2 MICH. GA'S
transportation. Call277-7744 for JENNIFER BENNING:WALK TO ND 6838889 

297-2192. NAME YOUR PRICEIII
interview appointment. 

Welcome to NO and Farley. I'm very excited about my two newest Established R&B/Punk!Garage 
OR2876389 #3501 
FOOTBALL TIX & HOTEL $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED Furnished room, air, kitchen, "little sisters." here's to a great Band seeks singer. No Chorus
PACKAGE AVAILABLE FOR
SEPT-MAY. TURTLE CREEK phone line. Close to campus. 272-year...monica Boys. Drano garglers encouraged. 
MICHIGAN STATE GAME ON
APTS. 273-9406. No metal silliness. Must be highly
0615 9/22 & 9/23. $119.50/PERSON BUT DBL. OCCUPANCY I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME 
to those living in the 'LOVE SHAK' · motivated and willing to gig often. SITIER NEEDED TWO 
-you know who you are. we will AFTERNOONS AND EVENINGS A 
REQUIRED. CALL 233·7056. GAMES.272-6306 Boozers welcome. Call Rick at
FOR SALE sleep close, sweat close, and be
SPONSORED BY MSU ALUMNI 1121 or Dave a! 1354 for moreWEEK. MUST DRIVE, 
close. fire up for a fabulous year of KNOLLWOOD AREA CALl277­CLUB. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ information. 
painting fingernails and all that fun
VISA & MASTERCARD I need student or GA's
8380 stuff.

COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: ACCEPTED. forMICHIGAN and MIAMI 19" COLOR TV, TWO Will pay big bucksll!!!!l Attention FreshmanNeeded: Assistant coaches tor SEMESTERS $110, ONE WANTED: 2 tickets-NO vs Penn CALL TOM 271-8245 Take notice before it is local age group swim team 2 to 4 
SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO State.Call316-775-6143 after too late
evenings per week. Call 233-1366. THE SHIRT THE SHIRT 
SEMESTERS $90, ONE 6pm. Leave message. !NEED MONEY?i need 3 TIX toll this may be your best advice 
ITS GREEN ITS GREEN 
SEMESTER $65. !sept.15 NO-MICH. gen. ad. orl all year
DRIVERS NEEDED. $7-10/HR. Green NO shirts to wear for the 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-!stud. =O.k. Older bro + sis IIIIII
NIGHTS. DOMINO'S PIZZA. 271-Michigan game ...orders being 
5959. coming for 1st game $$3022! 
taken NOW thru August31 See DO NOT BELIEVE A WORD0300. HELP!Ill 
See your dorm rep for details PETE "DMOC" RAUSCH SAYS
Parents' first and last chance 3 Miami tickets desperately DON'T MISS UUT! Even Katherine has learned Chicago Tribune carriers to see an NO football game. 
needed: Kathy x2567 needed tor immediate campus On Notre Dame's doorstep. Oak Desperately need 2 GA's and one sdgfmorning delivery. Hill condo like new condition, 2 student ticket for MICHIGAN. 
I need 2 Student Michigan 
Some collecting required bedrooms, 2 baths. Choice please call AMY (R.) ND · MICHIGAN GAME
ticketslllll

and dependibility a must. location in complex. $65,900. 272-8954 wear "The Shirt" ORDER NOW$$$$$$$$$$$$
Call City News Service, CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE 

(LAST DAY FOR ORDERS IS "THE SHIRT" ·on sale now! 232-3205. REALTY 282-2351. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
PLEASE Call Anne FRIDAY, AUGUST 31) JUST DO IT
at288 0597 

.. 

-


Wednesday, August 29, 1990 


AUGUST 29 • CENTRAL MICHIGAN (Exh.) SEPTEMBER 1 • DAYTON SEPTEMBER 7 • at DUKE (Met Ufe Classic) SEPTEMBER 9 • N.C. STATE (Met Life Classic) SEPTEMBER 12 • at LOYOlA* SEPTEMBER 14 • SAINT LOUIS* SEPTEMBER 17 • VAlPARAISO* SEPTEMBER 19 • DETROIT* SEPTEMBER 21 • at MICHIGAN STATE SEPTEMBER 23 • at MARQUETTE* SEPTEMBER 28 • at INDIANA SEPTEMBER 30 at WISCONSIN OCTOBER S•OHIO STATE OCTOBER 7 • CREIGHTON OCTOBER 9 • at BUTLER OCTOBER 19 • XAVIER* OCTOBER 20 • LOYOlA* OCTOBER 22 • at EVANSVIu.E OCTOBER 26 • UNC-CHARLOTTE (Southern Bell Classic) OCTOBER 27 • FLORIDA INT'L (Southern Bell Classic) NOVEMBER 1-4 • at MCC CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Scoreboard 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Wednesday, August 29 
Men's soccer vs. CENTRAL MICHIGAN (Exh.) 
Thursday, August30 
No sports scheduled. 
Friday, August31 
Volleyball at Washington State Invitational 
Saturday, September 1 
Men's soccer vs. DAYTON, 1 p.m. 
Volleyball at Washington State Invitational 
Sunday, September 2 
Women's soccer vs. N.E. MISSOURI, 1 p.m. 
TRANSACTIONS 
FOOTBALL National Football League ATLANTA FALCONs-Traded Ronnie Lee, offensive tackle, to the Seattle Seahawks for an undisclosed draft choice. Placed Titus Dixon, wide receiver, on injured reserve and Malcolm Taylor, defensive lineman, on the waived-injured list. Waived John Adleta, defensive lineman, and Pat Jackson, wide receiver. BUFFALO BILLs-Placed Wes Pritchett, linebacker; Eric Starr and Sean Doctor, running backs; Tom Gerhart and Carl Mims, defensive backs; and Kerry Brady, placekicker, on injured reserve. Signed Will Wolford, offensive tackle. 
CLEVELAND BROWNs-Signed Paul Farren, offensive tackle. Placed Jeff Graham,
Bold indicates home game 
quarterback, on injured reserve. Placed Dan *indicates MCC match Fike, guard, on the physically-unable-to­perform list. 
page 11 


AP/R. Taro 

U.S. OPEN 
Todd Witsken, Carmel, Ind., def. Diego Shazo Matsuoka, Japan, def. David Witt, Nargiso, Italy, 6-3, 6-7 (8-10), 7-6 (7-2), Jacksonville Beach, Fla., 7-5, 6-4, 6-2. 6-4. Gilad Bloom, Israel, def. Brad Pearce, Provo, Jimmy Arias, Buffalo, N.Y., def. Guy Forget, Utah, 7-5, 6-7 (5-7), 7-5, 6-0. 
BASEBALL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East Division  
w  L  Pet  
Boston  71  57  .555  
Toronto  66  64  .508  
Detroit  60  68  .469  
Milwaukee  60  68  .469  
Baltimore  59  68  .465  
Cleveland  59  69  .461  
New York  55  73  .430  
West Division  
w  L  Pet  
Oakland  79  48  .622  
Chicago  73  54  .575  
Texas  66  62  .516  
Kansas City  64  63  .504  
California  64  65  .496  
Seattle  62  66  .484  
Minnesota  58  71  .450  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  
East Division  
w  L  Pet  
Pittsburgh  74  54  .578  
New York  71  55  .563  
Montreal  67  61  .523  
Chicago  61  66  .480  
Philadelphia  59  67  .468  
St. Louis  58  70  .453  
West Division  
w  L  Pet  
Cincinnati  74  53  .583  
Los Angeles  68  60  .531  
San Francisco  66  62  .516  
San Diego  60  67  .472  
Houston  57  72  .442  
Atlanta  50  78  .391  
GB L10 Streak 


The Observer/ Micht~el F. Muldoon 
z-8-2 WenS 6 Z-2-8 Lasts 11 6-4 Won2 11 z-8-2 Won2 11 1/2 3-7 Lost 4 12 3-7 Lost 2 16 z-7-3 Won3 
GB L10 Streak 
z-5-5 Lost 2 6 z-5-5 Lost 4 13 1/2 5-5 Lost 1 15 7-3 Won 1 16 z-5-5 Won3 17 1/2 2-8 Lost 1 22 3-7 Won2 
GB L10 Streak 
z-5-5 Lost 4 2 z-5-5 Won 1 7 5-5 Won 1 12 1/2 z-5-5 Won 1 14 3-7 Lost 1 16 Z-4-6 Lost 3 
GB L10 Streak 
6-4 Won4 6 1/2 z-7-3 Won 3 8 1/2 5-5 Lost 2 14 z-5-5 Lost 1 18 z-5-5 Lost 1 24 1/2 z-6-4 Won 2 DENVER BRONCOs-Placed Monte Smith, offensive lineman, and Le-La Lang, cornerback, on the reserve-non-football injury list. Waived Brad Henke, defensive lineman, and John Husby and Darren Muilenburg, offensive linemen. GREEN BAY PACKERs-Waived Blaise Winter, nose tackle. INDIANAPOLIS COLTs-Waived Larry Kolic, linebacker; Ricky Johnson, running back, and Mike Teeter, defensive lineman. Placed Kevin Dean, linebacker, on injured reserve. LOS ANGELES RAIDERs-Announced the retirement of Lyle Alzada, defensive end. Waived Emanuel King, defensive end­linebacker; Rod Barksdale and Keith McDonald, wide receivers; Demetrius Davis, tight end; Marcus Wilson, defensive back; Joe Cormier, linebacker; Doug Lloyd, running back; and David Caldwell, defensive tackle. MIAMI DOLPHINS-Waived Cliff Stoudt, quarterback, and John Jurkovic, nose tackle. NEW ORLEANS SAINTs-Waived Gary Cooper, wide receiver, and Eric Lindstrom and Mark Ledbetter, linebackers. NEW YORK JETs-Waived Grantis Bell, wide receiver; Willie Wilson, linebacker; and Brent Snyder, quarterback. Placed Carl Byrum, fullback, and Troy Benson, linebacker, on injured reserve. SEATTLE SEAHAWKs-Waived Bobby Garcia and Michael Tanks, centers; Darryl Reed, cornerback; Elston Ridgle and Robert Morris, defensive ends; Roy Hart, defensive tackle; Darrin Miller, linebacker; Bob Kula, offensive guard; Karl Bernice and Mike lindsay, offensive tackles; Rusty Hilger, quarterback; and Dedrick Dodge, safety. Placed Jim Sandusky, wide receiver, and Bill Hitchcock, offensive tackle, on injured reserve. SAN DIEGO CHARGERs-Traded Keith English, punter, to the Los Angeles Rams for an undisclosed draft choice. Waived Leonard Johnson, defensive end; Lee Allen, wide receiver: Rnd John Carney, olacekicker. 

France, 7-6 (9-7), 6-4, 3-6, 6-4. Andrei Chesnokov (1 0), Soviet Union, def. Olivier Delaitre, France, 6-4, 7-5, 6-3. John McEnroe, Cove Neck, N.Y., def. Javier Sanchez, Spain, 7-6 (10-8), 7-6 (7-3), 6-4. Michael Chang (11 ), Placentia, Calif., def. Mikael Pernfors, Sweden, 6-0, 6-2, 6-3. Mark Kratzmann, Australia, def. Bryan Shelton, Huntsville, Ala., 6-7 (3-7), 6-3, 6­3, 6-4. Andrei Cherkasov, Soviet Union, def. Robert Seguso, Boca Raton, Fla., 6-0, 6-7 (6-8), 6­2, 6-3. Jason Stoltenberg, Australia, def. Udo Riglewski, West Germany, 4-6, 6-1, 6-0, 2­1, retired. Aaron Krickstein (9), Grosse Pointe, Mich. def. Andrew Sznajder, Canada, 6-1, 4-6, 6-7 (2-7), 6-1, 6-1. Tommy Ho, Winter Haven, Fla., def. Nduka Odizor, Nigeria, 6-2, 4-6, 6-2, 3-6, 7-5. Andre Agassi (4), Las Vegas, def. Grant Connell, Canada, 6-4, 6-2, 6-2. Petr Korda, Czechoslovakia, del. Eric Jelen, West Germany, 2-6, 6-3, 6-0, 6-3. Pat Cash, Australia, def. Marc Rosset, Switzerland, 2-6, 2-6, 6-3, 6-3, 6-3. Glenn Layendecker, Boston, def. Dick Bosse, South Africa, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3, 7-6 (7-5). Scott Davis, Davie, Fla., def. Kelly Evernden, New Zealand, 7-5, 6-1, 6-3. Tomas Carbonell, Spain, def. Paul Haarhuis, Netherlands, 6-7 (7-9), 7-6 (7-4), 6-4, 6-0. Derrick Rostagno, Pacific Palisades, Calif., del. Tarik Benhabiles, France, 6-4, 6-2, 6-2. Yannick Noah, France, del. David Pate, Las Vegas, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4, 6-7 (2-7), 6-2. Cristiano Caratti, Italy, def. Steven Bryan, Katy, Texas, 6-2, 7-5, 2-6, 6-2. Broderick Dyke, Australia, leads Amos Mansdort, Israel, 6-3, 6-3, 3-6, susp. by darkness. 
Rick Leach, Laguna Beach, Calif., def. Paul Chamberlin, Del Mar Calif., 6-4, 7-6 (7-3), 6-1. 
Franco Davin, Argentina, def. Joey Rive, West Palm Beach, Fla., 6-4, 6-4, 7-6 (7-3). Milan Sreber, Czechoslovakia, del. Cari-Uwe Steeb, West Germany, 7-5, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3. Darren Cahill, Australia, del. Kelly Jones, Escondido, Calif., 6-3, 3-6, 6-2, 6-0. Emilio Sanchez, Spain, def. Brian Garrow, Los Altos, Hills, Calif., 7-6 (7-5), 6-4, 6-4. Johan Carlsson, Sweden, def. Richard Matuszewski, Hopewell Junction, N.Y., 3-6, 6-2, 6-1' 6-2. 
Selina Cardwell, New Zealand, del. Katrina Adams, Chicago, 6-3, 7-6 (7-2). Arantxa Sanchez Vicario (6), Spain, def. Nicole Provis, Australia, 6-0, 6-3. Jana Novotna (12), Czechoslovakia, def. Laura Lapi, Italy, 6-3, 6-1. Emanuela Zardo, Switzerland, del. Cathy Caverzasio, Switzerland, 6-1, 4-6, 6-1. Caroline Kuhlman, Lakeside Park, Ky., def. Chanda Rubin, Lafayette, La., 6-2, 6-4. Lori McNeil, Houston, def. Audra Keller, Memphis, Tenn., 6-4, 6-3. Angelica Gavaldon, Coronado, Calif., def. Donna Faber, Hilton Head, S.C., 6-3, 6-2. Patty Fendick, Sacramento, Calif., def. Maya Kidowaki, Japan, 6-7 (5-7), 6-4, 7-5. Debbie Graham, Fountain Valley, Calif., def. Eleni Rossides, Washington, D.C., 6-4, 6-0. Robin White, San Diego, def. Andrea Temesvari, Hungary, 4-6, 6-0, 6-2. Jennifer Capriati (13), Broken Sound, Fla., def. Anke Huber, West Germany, 7-5, 7-5. Patricia Hy, Canada, del. Laura Gaiarsa, Italy, 6-3, 6-3. Rachel McQuillan, Australia, def. Linda Harvey-Wild, Hawthorn Woods, Ill., 7-6 (7­5), 7-5. Csilla Bartos, Switzerland, leads Elise Burgin, Baltimore, 6-4, 4-6, 3-1, susp. by darkness. Todd Witsken, Carmel, Ind., del. Diego Nargiso, Italy, 6-3, 6-7 (8-10), 7-6 (7-2), 6-4. 
BURNS PARTY 
SHOP 

FUNDRAISING RENTAL EQUIPMENT 
We have a large assortment of equipment to suit every fundraising need: 
• 
Cotton Candy Machines 



• Snow Cone Machines 
• 
Hot Doggers 

• Barbeque Grills 

BECOHE A PART OF THE GREATEST
• Popcorn Machines • Roasters 

ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT IN THE COUNTRY
• 
Griddles 



• Assorted/Logo Balloons 
• 
Pop Coolers 

•Dunk Tank 

The Notre Dame Sports Marketing Department
• Deep Fryers 

is looking for student volunteers to assist in promoting the 23 varsity athletic programs_ 
• Souvenir (T-shirts, etc) 
* Choice of FREE DELIVERY or 10% discount Bums Party Shop 

Anyone interested should contact: 
Jim Fraleigh, Sports Marketing Assistant
832 W. Mishawaka Ave. 

at 239-7338.
(Comer of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) 
259-4807 

259-2833 

--~---·~ 

page 12 The Observer Wednesday, August 29, 1990 
Mets win, gain on Pirates as Braves obliterate Pittsburgh 
NEW YORK (AP) -David Cone pitched a five-hitter and set up New York's offense by drawing a 14-pitch walk Tuesday night, leading the Mets past the San Diego Padres 4-0. 
Cone (10-7), second in the National League with 179 strikeouts, fanned just five. But he walked only one in his sec­ond shutout of the season and fourth complete game in 23 starts as the Mets got within two games of first-place Pittsburgh in the East Division. 
Calvin Schiraldi (3-7) lost his fifth consecutive decision and fell to 1-5 lifetime against his former club. The Mets beat San Diego for only the fourth time in 11 games this year. 
After Cone's walk in the third, he took second on Benito Santiago's passed ball and moved to third on Daryl Boston's single, with Boston taking third on the throw home. Dave Magadan followed with a single for a 2-0 lead. 
Braves 9, Pirates 0 
Charlie Leibrandt pitched a five-hitter for seven innings and Greg Olson drove in four runs with a double and a homer, carrying Atlanta over Pittsburgh. 
Leibrandt (6-8), who lost five of his previous six decisions, did not walk a batter as he handed the Pirates their fourth consecutive loss. 
Atlanta, with the worst record in the league, jumped on Pirates starter John Smiley (7­
7) for three runs in the first in­ning, chased him with three more in the fifth and got the fi­nal three on Olson's seventh homer. 
Reds 2, Cardinals 1 
Cincinnati continued its dom­inance of St. Louis as Jose Rijo pitched five innings and drove in the go-ahead run with a bunt single. 
The first-place Reds, 9-2 against St. Louis this season, have outscored the Cardinals 41-21. 
Rijo (10-6) allowed only one run despite giving up six hits and four walks in five innings. Relievers Tim Layana and Randy Myers finished the game, with each pitching two innings and allowing one hit apiece. Myers earned his 26th save in 30 chances. 
Rijo's second-inning bunt single also brought in what turned out to be the decisive run against Joe Magrane (8­15). The left-bander gave up just five hits in eight innings, retiring 10 in a row in the mid­dle innings. 

Cubs 5, Astros 2 

Ryne Sandberg's fourth-in­ning home run made him the first second baseman in history to have consecutive 30-homer seasons, and Greg Maddux pitched his seventh complete game in the Chicago's victory over Houston. 
Sandberg, who also had a sacrifice fly, led off the fourth with a homer over the left field fence, the Cubs' first hit off Bill Gullickson (8-12), who lost his fourth straight game. Sandberg, who had 30 homers last season, is the ninth second baseman to hit 30 or more in a season. 
Maddux (12-11) didn't allow a runner past second base until he surrendered two runs in the ninth. 
Ihe='lbsenrer. 
IM in<kopen<k•nl otudt>nl nowspaper ,.rvins oo1n! d.\..,. •nd sainl nwy's 
is currently looking for interested people to fill the following position: 
Viewpoint Copy Editor 
All students are encouraged to apply. If interested, submit a 1-page personal statement and resume to Michelle Dall at The Observer office (239-5303) by 5 p.m. Friday, August 31. 
NVA announces dates 
Observer Staff Report 
A campus beach party and biathlon Saturday will kick off Non-Varsity Athletics' fall activities. The biathlon will begin at 11 a.m. at the beach on St. Joseph's Lake, and the beach party will begin at noon. Canoes will be available for rent, and the sailing and rowing clubs will hold demonstrations. 
NVA also advises that stu­dents who wish to partici­pate in men's football, men's or women's singles tennis, mixed doubles tennis and/or the slow pitch softball tour­nament register by Wednesday, September 5 at the Non-Varsity Athletics office in the Joyce ACC. 
September 5 is also the date for the beginning of classes in aerobics, water aerobics and stretchercise as well as an informational meeting for scuba classes. 
Every student who partici­pates in any intramural or club sport activity must be covered by some form of insurance policy. In addition, those who wish to join foot­ball, soccer, basketball, hockey, wrestling and/or club sports teams must complete a medical consent and release form which is available at the JACC. 
More information may be obtained by calling the Non­Varsity Athletic office at 239-5100. 


is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Production Manager 
To apply, please submit a resume and a two-page personal statement to Alison Cocks by Friday, August 31 at 5 p.m. Any questions shou1d be directed to A1ison at 239-7471. 
~ 
\J~~IEo/:::,:~~,J.J.~'::::::·~··~![:J.~i·~~i:·.::::::::::::::~ 
~M~~--m•·~~····~~~~~--~~~·~~---~1 
NOTRE DAM£ Welcome Back I 

Students, Faculty & Staff I
I. 
. 

SCHOOL SUPPLIES HEADQUARTERS 
.
I

I 
SCOTCH MOUNTING SQUARES 
89¢ 

Scotch 3M 
B~•' 


SCOTCH WALLSAVER POSTER TAPE $1.95 

SCOTCH REMOVABLE MOUNTING SQUARES 
99¢ 
.. 
h;' 

J·············································••\ 
: SPECIAL HOURS: 9-7 PM AUG. 28 &29 :
•

t •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • 

Wednesday, August 29, 1990 The Observer page 13 
No. 1 Stefan Edberg upset in first round of U.S. Open 
NEW YORK (AP) -Stefan Edberg, a victim of tennis burnout after a summer fling in the No. 1 spot, succumbed to his U.S. Open jinx and the rock­eting returns of a young Soviet star. 
Alexander Volkov, the Kaliningrad Kid, wielded a bright red racket "under a bril­liant sun and methodically took apart a surprisingly slow Edberg, 6-3, 7-6 (7-3), 6-2, Tuesday in the first opening­round defeat of a top-seeded man here in 19 years. 
Andre Agassi, who completed his rakish look with a dangling earring, scraggly beard and white bandana around long, black and blond hair, put on a show of power tennis in one of his best efforts since reaching the French finals. 
Jennifer Capriati, too young at 14 to worry about burnout, and fashionably dressed by her multi-million dollar sponsors, saved a set-point in the first set and won her Open debut as a pro. 7-5, 7-5, against a very tough 15-year-old, Anke Huber. 
Ivan Lendl, aiming to regain the top ranking that Edberg took away Aug. 13, five weeks after winning Wimbledon, 
easily  won  his  first-round  
match.  
Volkov,  a  left-bander  who  

switched from a two-fisted style about five years ago, excels at return of service and is able to handle with his fore­hand the kick on Edberg's serve that torments many right-ban­ders. 
Martina Navratilova, well-rested, had little trouble beating Federica Haumuller 6­4, 6-0 to advance to the second round. 
Zina Garrison, seeded fourth, advanced easily with a 6-1, 6-3 victory over Beate Reinstadler, and Gabriela Sabatini, seeded fifth, beat Kathy Jordan, 6-1, 
6-1. 
Edberg, 24, won a career­best 21 matches in a row, starting with Wimbledon and running through three other titles, including the ATP Championships in Cincinnati. He reached the No. 1 ranking for the first time on Aug. 13, but now is in danger of losing it by year's end to Lendl or Boris Becker. Mats Wilander, another Swede who lost in the first round, had the shortest reign as No. 1 when he took over the top spot for 20 weeks after winning the U.S. Open in 1988. 
Despite Edberg's loss, he will remain No. 1 on the ATP com­puter rankings when they are released next on Sept. 10, the day after the U.S. Open ends. 
Edberg, knocked out in the fourth round here the past two years after reaching the semifi­nals in 1986 and 1987, has never won the Open. 
He looked sad and bewildered but he still managed a rare joke as he thought about his loss to Volkov. 
He said it was nice not to have airplanes buzzing over the courts, but quipped, "I sent up a lot of balloons instead." 
Volkov won the first four points of the tie-break and won it easily as Edberg 
...... 

r 
" 

.... 
.Ihe ObserYer~ 
RETURNING AND NEW SPORTSWRITERS 
will meet at 7:30 pm TONIGHT 
at The Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune. Call Greg Guffey at 239-5309 with questions. 
..) 
...... 

" 
HELP WANTED!! 

Multiple student positions are open for Fall/Spring Semesters in Information Services, Department of User Services, Office of University Computing. 
Documentation Students: Need 2 documentation students who will be responsible for writing introductory user guides to specified computer software products. Extensive knowledge in at least one of the following Macintosh software packages is required: PageMaker, Excel, WordPerfect, Hypercard. Strong writing skills a must. 
Editing Student: Extensive writing/editing background is required for this 
position. Experience using Macintosh, PageMaker, MSWord and graphics software is preferred. 
Publications Graphic Designer/Layout Student: Heavy graphic arts 
background with experience using Macintosh graphics software (particularly, 
Adobe Illustrator) is ideal. Responsible for graphic design and layout of OUC 
publications. 
Graphic Designer: Strong graphic arts background with experience using 
Macintosh graphics software packages. Responsible for OUC graphic design 
projects which includes computer screen design for special presentations. 
Multimedia Student: In search of~ student to conduct multimedia product 
evaluations (includes audio, video, animation, text and graphics products), 
develops multimedia presentations and assists in maintaining the OUC's 
Multimedia Lab. Programming on the Macintosh with knowledge of 
Macintosh authoring languages recommended. 
Office Students: Students needed to staff the business office. Computer, 
typing, filing and general office experience required. Need to have a good 
phone personality and strong organizational skills. 
Applications for Employment may be picked up from Denis Lindquist, Room G001 in the basement of the Computing Center/Math Building. 
uncharacteristically made repeated errors -a backhand long, another into the net. one more wide and a final one into the net again. 
Volkov, 2 3. suddenly a celebrity, signed a few auto­graphs before leaving the court. 
"He was much more tired 
than I was," said Volkov, who 
had never before played on the 
Open's stadium court. "I saw 
him so many times on TV and 
in practice. I knew his topspin 
serve and that I had to play 
inside the court. If not, then I 
had no chance. My coach told 
me to hit to the middle, to the 
forehand, and then go to the 
net. 

"I don't know when I am go­ing to play well. Sometimes I play so well, like today." 

AP Photo John McEnroe struggled through his first round at the U.S. Open Tuesday, indicative of his slowdown in performance-and temper . 

HOLY CROSS PARISH 1520 Vassar Avenue South Bend, IN 46628 
218 233 2179 

MALE GRADUATE HOUSING I $170 permo 
Furnished sleeping rooms. Bed, dresser, desk, telephone hook-up, eating & cooking areas, & laundry facilities provided. 9 month lease 
is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editors/Copy Editors 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Monday, Sept. 3 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 

Fiery Mac mellows in comeback 
NEW YORK (AP) -He is unseeded now. An afterthought in the draw of the U.S. Open, trying to feel his way through the malaise that has gripped his game. 
And yet, John McEnroe still lights the fires of the fans at the National Tennis Center. 
They packed the stadium Tuesday to watch Johnny Mac fight a nearly three-hour battle for survival, barely beating Javier Sanchez . 
Was he generally happy with his game? 
''I'm generally happy nn:still in the tournament," McEnroe said. 
Hardly the kind of fire and brimstone you might have once expected from tennis' onetime enfant terrible. Times have changed though and Johnny Mac is the first to admit it. 
"I don't think any player wants his whole being based on 
whether  he  wins  or loses  a  
match."  
Can  that  be  the  same  

McEnroe who once routinely raged at line calls, who threw tennis tantrums at the slightest provocation? 
There were a few complaints in the Sanchez match, but it was almost as if Mac delivered them because they were expected. But he never was moved to rip ofT his loud, broad bandana and throw it to the court in anger. 
This is a kinder, gentler McEnroe, his face smeared with zinc oxide to fight ofT the sun. The old Mac would have scorned the sun, not protected himself from it. The old Mac might not have been as blunt about his chances. 
"I don't really like them," he said. "It's not like it's out there potentially. It's a question of all things coming together. I've progressed. I'd be happy to pick up another notch here. There's a lot of rust to get out. It's a long term project. Anything I do here is a bonus if I do well." 
A year ago, McEnroe's first tennis recovery had carried him to No. 4 in the world. Now he 
has drifted back down to  No.  
21.  
It  all  comes  down  to  

concentration, he said. "I didn't feel total concentration then," McEnroe said. "That's what I mean by 'being there.' If it doesn't come, the decision is easy." 
~ -------~ 
~---------~------------------~--­

page 14 The Observer 
Ware breaks in with Detroit 
PONTIAC, Mich. (AP) ­Andre Ware is a rich rookie. But he's still a rookie-and on his first day in the Detroit Lions' camp, he got the treat­ment reserved for rookies. 
When Ware entered a team meeting at 11 a.m. on Tuesday, an hour late because he had to take a physical examination, nobody spoke to him -except one crusty veteran who told him to take off his cap. 
"The purpose of a rookie quarterback is to blend in with his teammates," offensive tackle Lomas Brown said after two hours of practice in 95-de­gree heat. "By the same token, the team also has a duty to blend in with the quarterback, no matter who he is." 
At the moment, the Lions' quarterback is still Rodney Peete. But Ware, who ended his holdout Monday night when he signed a four-year contract worth $4.6 million, plus a $2 million signing bonus, will get plenty of chances to earn the job. 
Coach Wayne Fontes said Ware might play as much as 
half  of  Detroit's  exhibition  
game  Friday  night  in  
Cincinnati.  

"I look for Andre Ware to 
play a lot on Friday," Fontes said. "He might play a half. It depends on how Rodney and Bob Gagliano are going. He'll run the patterns he's comfort­able with. We'll call them for him." 
Peete, who has been very !>harp in leading the Lions to a 3-0 exhibition record, seized the moment to request a pay raise. Peete, the Lions sixth­
round  draft  choice  in  1989,  
signed  a  two-year  contract  
worth only $215,000.  

"There are a number of guys we know we've got to talk to and I intend to do that," said Lions general manager Chuck Schmidt, who joined the large knot of media, photographers and fans who showed up to record Ware's first practice. 
Out on the practice field, Ware got a crash course in the Lions' version of the run-and­shoot offense from assistant coach Mouse Davis. Davis would show Ware a diagram on a play sheet and Ware would watch either Peete or Gagliano run the play. 
"He's not familiar with spe­cific plays but he knows the ba­sics," Davis said. "He's not as far behind as your average rookie because he's been in the 

offense and he's been to our minicamps." Later, Ware began running a few plays. 
"I think he's way behind," Fontes said. "He thinks this is the same offense he ran in col­lege, but it's only similar. It's not the same. I would think right now he's got an uphill battle. It's unfortunate, but he'll have to sit a while." 
Ware set 26 NCAA records at the University of Houston, where he won the Heisman Trophy last season. He decided to pass up his senior season and made himself eligible for the NFL draft. 
Fontes said Ware would have to show he's better than Peete. 
"The best player will play for the Detroit Lions, regardless of position and regardless of where they were drafted," Fontes said. "You can put that in big print." 
Ware said he felt comfortable but wished he could have run more plays. 
"You won't be able to tell much about my ability after Friday, no matter how I play," Ware said. "If I have a good game, they'll say, 'He's not far behind.' If I don't, they'll say I am." 
Alzado's comeback comes up short 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. (AP) ­Lyle Alzada's dream of return­ing to the NFL at the age of 41 ended Tuesday when the Los Angeles Raiders announced his retirement. 
Alzado was among the NFL's top defensive ends from 1971­85 with Denver, Cleveland and the Raiders. After working in 
Dawson 
continued from page 16 
tained his high school squad. "Basketball helps with my concentration, catching the ball and conditioning." 
His all-around athletic ability notwithstanding, Dawson gained national recognition for his pass catching. Rave reviews came from all sides despite Federal Way's consecutive 4-5 seasons. Dawson was rated one of the top 100 incoming fresh­men nationally by USA Today, Football News, Dallas Morning News, SuperPrep and Chicago Sun-Times. 
Losing records are something Dawson should not have to worry about at Notre Dame. The Irish have compiled a 24-1 record the past two seasons and strong recruiting cam­paigns the past several years should keep them near the top of the college football heap. 
Research works. 
/aAmerican Heart 
V Association 
movies and television, he announced last spring that he wanted to play again. 
The comeback seemed des­tined to fail from the start when a pulled calf muscle and a knee injury kept him out of training camp drills. Alzado underwent arthroscopic knee surgery on July 27. He did get 
Naturally, one of the benefits of joining a top-flight program such as Notre Dame is that a player has the chance to prac­tice against some of the best athletes in the country. Dawson understands that when he lines up opposite All-America cornerback Todd Lyght he is facing perhaps the nation's foremost defensive back. 

back on the field for 20 plays 
for the Raiders against the 
Chicago Bears in Friday night's 
20-3 victory. 
Alzado was unavailable for 

comment Tuesday. 
He went on the reserve­

retired list on a day when eight 
other players were released to 
get down to the roster limit. 
"It's a good thing to have someone like Todd Lyght push­ing me every day," said Dawson. ''I'm bel!inning to learn how to read defenses. I have to learn how to adjust and they (the Irish secondary) really make it hard sometimes." 
Just as he makes it hard for Holtz to leave the practice field. 
Wednesday, August 29, 1990 

AP Photo Andre Ware is trying to break into the Detroit Lions' starting lineup after coming to terms with the organization over his contract. 

Next day processing & printing of 35mm color negative film, in by 
10:00 am back by 11:00 am next day. 
Tuesdays SECOND SET OF PRINTS, FREE! 
Same day processing of ALL E-6 slide films, in by 12:00 pm out by 4:30 pm. 
One hour RUSH service available on ALL E-6 slide films with additional costs. 
A wide variety of 35mm films for sale! 
University of Notre Dame Center for Continuing Education, Rm 13 Notre Dame, IN 46556 219. 239. 7630 


WHO: The Class of 1991 
WHEN: September 3rd--21st 
WHERE: 3rd Floor of LaFortune 
WHY: To Be In The 1991 Dome 
SIGN UP AUGUST 28th--31st NORTH DINING HALL SOUTH DINING HALL AND LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK 

ATTENTION JUNIORS!!! 
Pizza Party at Barnaby's on Grape Rd., 5:30-8:30, Thursday, August 30. 
$4 All you can eat! Be There! 
1--····•·•·•••••••·•:•••:••i!!illillli••

M.F'•u•JI·KI~II•••s•E•RVJI·c·es••••••R·~es•E••rZJ•illrl•(t:)•N •·••••••••••••••••···••! 
Learn about computing services and 
facilities for students at Notre Dame 
Hesburgh Aud!tor~um 
1:00-8:00p.m. 
luesday, Wednesday, lhursday August 28, 29, 30 


Sponsored by the Office of University Computing 
~-----------·~---­
Wednesday, August 29, 1990 
The Observer 
page 15 

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
7 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "The Cheat." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by Educational Media. 
9 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Casablanca," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by Educational Media. 

.•OR. IS II .llJS\ MOt.IE'< 
t>.NO CAR.S:' 
I 
~~ 
~ 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
BBQ Ribs London Broil Noodles Romanoff Julienne Turkey 

ACROSS 34 West German 53 Nap river 58 In re 
1 Misplaced 

35 Rooster on a 59 End of the quip5 Little bits 
spire 61 Shirley or Edwin 91con 
36 Norse goddess 62Jai­14 Painter of healing 63 Become firm nicknamed 
64 Actress "The Cornish 
37 Quip: Part Ill Francesca38 PlacardsWonder" 65 Judge's bench 
39 Teen problem 
15 Director Kazan 66 Wreath on a 
16 Rich man 17 Start of a quip 19 Trap 20 Radcliffers of 
yesteryear 21 Phantom 23 What a ques. 
seeks 24 Alas, in Munich 25Henry-, 
Thackerary hero 

40 Horatian creation 41 Zeno's birthplace 42 Quip: Part IV 43 Spartan admiral 46 Singer John and namesakes 47 Danish weight 48 Native of Panay 49 Hindus' Holy 
City, now called 
BILL WATTERSON 

29 Quip: Part II Varanasi 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
knight's helmet 
DOWN 
1 Glen Gray's Casa-­orchestra 
2 Fiery gemstone 31n--(in 
place) 4 Tenure 5lnsist upon, as 
payment 6 Shade of green 7 Hamper's · 
cousin 8 Remarks 


RR4±7+:+.'-~;;,+;.f.:=--f:::=-+.=:~+.7l ~-:-+=+:=-i 
..::....L::...J..::...L;..;;.J 


9 Entomologist's interest 10Dr. Fu­
11 Blind as­12 Skirt feature 13 Legendary Irish 
king 18 Foolish 22 What glaziers 
take with their work 
25 Flynn of flicks 26 Umbrageous 27 Hammer and 
Wallace 28 Unit 
29 Wilt the Stilt was one 30 --Eleanor Roosevelt 31 Right-hand page 32 Sheer fabric 33 Regions 35 Despicable 38 Bulrush 39 Picnic pest 
42 "Topless towers" kingdom 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 
44 Lemmon film: 1972 45 Radio's Pam 
and Jerry 46 Cultural 48 Nile dam 49 Rum cake 50 Town NEof 
Cincinnati 51 Broadway light 
52 A piece of the rock 
54 Japanese leader Hideki: 1885-1948 
55 Pitcher 56 Shout 57 A first name in 
mystery &oPie-mode 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75ct each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 





@1980 Chronicle Features Distributed by Universal Press Syndicate 
IT'S N()T EVEN 1\N INC~ 1-\IG\-1! WI-\~\ GOOD IS \.fSS T\-\~N /\~ INC\-\ Or SN\>W ?! 
0 
~ 
12.·10 

"Say, honey ... didn't I meet you last night at the feeding-frenzy?" 
Wharf cows 
Sports
page 16 Wednesday, August 29, 1990 
r 
He's putting in the overtime 
Freshman Lake Dawson working for a starting position 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Daily practice routinely ends around 6:30 p.m. for the Notre Dame football team, but for freshman wideout Lake Dawson, the pursuit of perfec­tion requires a little bit of over­time. 
Long after his teammates left the practice field Monday, Dawson stayed to field punts with a few players selected by Coach Jay Hayes and then worked on crossing patterns with receivers coach Skip Holtz and flanker Raghib Ismail. 
"You've got to run these guys off the field," marvelled Head Coach Lou Holtz, who post­poned his own exit long enough to take in the show. 
Dawson's intense work ethic and appreciation for the fun­damentals of the game have attracted the attention of both teammates and coaches, plac­ing him in the thick of the race for the starting wide receiver position. 
Dawson is an anomaly in today's high-profile world of sports. Heavily recruited out of Federal Way, Wash., Dawson gives the impression he is fran­tically fighting for a roster spot when, in reality, he is perhaps 

A LOOK AT LAKE DAWSON 
Class: Freshman 

Hometown: Federal Way, Wash. 
Position: split end 

High school honors: all-state at split end and strong safety as senior, league offensive MVP after catching 46 passes for 634 yards and 14 touchdowns as senior 
Other sports: played basektball and ran track in high 
school Off beat: captained football, as a senior 
the frontrunner for the starting receiver spot. He takes nothing for granted and works in earnest to master the technical aspects of big-time college football. 
"He is a class act and a class person," raved Holtz. "He is a dedicated player and a very tal­ented individual. He belongs here." 
The emergence of Rick Mirer at starting quarterback and Notre Dame's new emphasis on the passing game were both important factors in luring Dawson to South Bend and away from Pac 10 schools Washington, Washington State, Stanford and California. 
"Coach Holtz said Notre Dame still would run the ball, but there would be a more hal-
Beshin, fencers have No.1 mission 
Relegated to third place in the 1990 NCAA Fencing Championships, the 
~~t;~~~~~::~::~:/~:: s~~~~;r:f t~; 
unlikely spot of Bruno's Pizza in west­ern South Bend. 
Head Coach Mike DeCicco addressed his fencers in his customary post-year way, trying to bring out the positive aspects of a season in which the team expected to win the national champi­onship but came up short. 
~ 
f~, ~' 

Scott Brutocao 
Irish Items 
About the only spirit that was still soaring when DeCicco took the podium was that of Jubba Beshin, who surprised everyone at the national championships by winning the indi­vidual epee title in his first year of collegiate competition by beating Dan Nowosielski of Princeton in back-to-hack bouts, 5-4, 5-2. 
But this was the team's day. DeCicco covered many topics in his speech, elaborating on the fact that finishing third in the nation is no small feat and that winning the national championship next year would take commitment and sacri­fice. 
Then the 29-year fencing coach shifted direction. All of a sudden he was making predictions about the next season. No, it wasn't piffie like, "We could do very well next season if we work hard." And it wasn't, "We are going to finish in the top three again next season." 
No, DeCicco went so far as to tell his friends and challenge his athletes that Notre Dame would win the 1991 national fencing title. 
There were stirs from the audience. Undoubtedly some stomachs, filled with pizza and pasta, turned. 
"It was one of those Pat Riley things," observed Beshin. 
Beshin looked at his friend, James Taliaferro, and knew nothing needed to be said. 
"When he said that we just kind of looked at each other, and though we didn't say anything we knew what was about to happen," said Beshin. "The team knew that they would have to follow through. It was for the honor of our coach, you know?" 
This sort of tacit understanding of things to happen has been inside Beshin ever since he started fencing. The confi­dence in being able to beat anybody on any day is common among most nationally competitive fencers, but Beshin is one up on the rest of the collegiate epeeists around the country. He followed through. 
"Fencing is like a balance," said Beshin. "You have to be on for that particular day. The day before (the individual championships), for the team championships, I wasn't fenc­ing to my best ability. But the next day, I was on. You've got to grab those days." 
see BESHIN I page 1 0 basketball and track squads 
anced attack," said the 6-1, 185-pound wide receiver. "That opened up my mind a little bit." · 
It also promises to open up the Irish passing attack. A four year letterman at Federal Way High School, Dawson led the South Puget Sound League with 46 catches for 634 yards and 14 touchdowns last season, numbers which earned him league offensive MVP honors. 
Dawson also lettered in bas­ketball and track, compiling district records in the 110 high hurdles and 300 hurdles. He has run the 110 high hurdles in 13.09. 
"Hurdling helps with my quickness and coordination," said Dawson, who twice cap-
see DAWSON I page 14 



Athletic Director Richard Rosenthal announced that Notre Dame football will now be seen on television in six European countries via a London-based cable company. 
Crossina another boundary 
NO announcesfootball package deal for European T.V. 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­Finally, the Irish will get to see Notre Dame football. 
A changing European televi­sion market has given Notre Dame a "window of opportu­nity" to sell its football broad­cast rights to a London-based sports channel, athletic director Dick Rosenthal said Tuesday. 
The Fighting Irish have a tentative agreement to have their games televised in six European countries -including Ireland -for three years beginning this fall. 
The deal, which was reached Monday, would allow London­based Screensport to use the feeds from Notre Dame games being televised in the United States, according to Rosenthal. 
Screensport is an all-sports satellite channel that reaches most of northern Europe. 

Rosenthal said a growing number of private television channels in Europe have opened the market for programming, but the market is still small. He declined to disclose terms of the agreement but said Notre Dame's earnings would be small. 
"I made it very clear we have gotten an agreement on it only verbally, but we have every con­fidence there will be a final deal," he said. 
In February, the Fighting Irish, whose television rights were held by ABC and ESPN, broke from the 64-team College Football Association to sign its own five-year, $37.5 million contract with NBC. 
NBC will have exclusive televi­sion rights to Notre Dame's 
home games for five seasons 
beginning in 1991. 

In Tuesday's editions of USA Today, Rosenthal said the idea of expanding Notre Dame's visibility to European television has been in the works for some time. 
"We've kind of looked at this for a couple of years," Rosenthal said. "I think it will be a major entry into the TV market in Europe." 
Overseas broadcasts will be live and tape-delayed, depend­ing on starting times and mar­ket demand, the newspaper said. 
England, Germany, the Netherlands, France, Italy and Ireland are the countries tar­geted to receive the broadcasts. 
-






