
VOL. XXIII NO. 104 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Campus priest lauds Nicaraguan elections 
By PETER LOFTUS 
Assistant News Editor 
The recent elections in Nicaragua were conducted in a praiseworthy manner, in terms of both voter participation and tlw voting procedures at the polls, according to Father Robert Pelton. who was an offi­cial "observer" of tlw elections. 
PPiton said in a lecture Tues­day that he was "glad to be part of an historic monwnt." 
PP!ton is director of the lnsti­tutl' for Pastoral and Social Ministry at Notre Dame. and in the past has been chair of the tlwology department at NO and has snrvcd as rector of St. Ge­orge's College in Chile. 
lie was appointed by the Supreme Electoral Council in Nicaragua to represent the University as an official ob­server of the Feb. 25 elections. 
New South African rulers declare state of emergency 
JOHANNESBURG. South Africa (AP) -The new military rulers of the Ciskei homeland dndared a state of emergency Tuesday in a bid to end looting and rioting following their coup that has left 27 people dead and 550 injured. 
There were reports of more looting despite the presence of South African troops, who were sent in to quell the violence at the request of the new rulers in Ciskei. 
Dissident army officers led by Brig. Gen. Oupa Gqozo staged a bloodless coup Sunday that ousted Ciskei's President Len­nox Sebe while he was in Hong Kong on a trade mission. 
Ciskei. a 3,600-square-mile territory of about 1 million people on the Indian Ocean coast, is one of 10 black home­lands in South Africa. They are recognized only by the Pretoria government. 
r---------------------------------------~ 
Iceberg Championship to debate priestly celibacy, 


By JOE MOODY 
Assistant News Editor 
The Championship Round of the 2nd annual Iceberg Debates will pit Pangborn against Breen-Phillips in competition for $500 tonight in the Hesburgh Library Au­ditorium. 
The resolution for tonight's climactic round will be "That the Catholic Church should not require priests to be celibate." Breen-Phillips will debate in favor of the resolution while Pangborn will be taking the negative side. 
"I think this is a very im­portant issue nationally which obviously has an im• pact on our campus," said Iceberg Debate Chairman Matthew Thiel. "It's also very interesting that some of the priests I talked to were actually against mandatory celibacy," Thiel added. 
The Supreme Electoral Coun­cil was formed in 1984 as the fourth independent branch of the Nicaraguan government, Pelton said. The role of the branch is to determine proce­dures for voter registration and also procedures for the ac­tual election. 
The elections were for the po­sitions of President and Vice President, seats on the National Assembly and municipal seats, according to Pelton. 
Violeta de Chamorro defeated incumbent Daniel Ortega in the presidential election, capturing 55 percent of the vote to Ortega's 40 percent. Chamorro represented the United Na­tional Opposition (UNO) coali­tion, and Ortega represented the Sandinistas. 
see PELTON I page 4 

South Africa established the homelands in the 1960s to try to create separate, tribal-based states for blacks while whites retain control of national poli­tics and the economy. 
Looting and rioting erupted Sunday evening, and more than 50 stores and factories, many owned by Israelis and Tai­wanese, have been destroyed. 
Doctors at hospitals in Ciskei and nearby East London in South Africa said 27 people had been killed and more than 550 injured in violence following the coup. Most of the dead and in­jured suffered gunshot and stabbing wounds, the doctors said. 
The military rulers an­nounced the state of emergency Tuesday evening. Gqozo told the state-run South African Broadcasting Corp. that his government had begun to re­lease political prisoners held by 
The debate, to be held at 9 p.m;, will take placfl in front of five judges who are mem­hers of the faculty and legal profession. The side that gains the majority of the judges' decisions will ,be crowned the 1990 Jceberg Debate Champions and re­ceive $500. The run1let~ups will receive $200. ,, 


Representing the Btee)j'~ ';''' 
Phillips. team are Suzann~;;;;, ·Fitzgerald, MiChael· Coffey,> Katherine McFaddeP., ;tnd ..., Jennifer Schlueter. •'''''' 

The Pangborn team sists of Andrew Scha 
berg, Jennifer McDougall. John Mulhern, and 
Newcomer. 
"One interesting factor is that the Pangborn' team•· is comprised entirely of fresh­men," said Thiel. 
The debates started .oil February 5 with 30 teams representing each dorm and off-campus students. 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7, 1990 
AP Photo 

Mandela celebrates Mandela Day 
Deputy President of the African National Congress Nelson Mandela (left) and Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe greet the crowds at the start of the new Zimbabwe public holiday, Mandela Day, before relaxing to watch a football match between two local teams. 
Sebe, and he said the new gov­ernment would investigate charges of corruption against the ousted president. 
Human rights groups say Sebe's government detained hundreds of dissidents. 
South African Foreign Minis­ter Pik Botha, speaking to Par­liament in Cape Town, said ad­ditional South African troops had been moved into the area as a reserve force. 
South Africa's pro-apartheid Conservative Party criticized the South African government for not intervening sooner in Ciskei to prevent the chaos. 
"These little stone-throwing, looting arsonist (criminals) are probably a precursor to the new South Africa," said Tom Langley, a member of Parlia­ment for the Conservatives. 
Botha said he was informed Friday of a possible coup at­tempt in Ciskei and passed the 

Afghan government still in turmoil 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP) -Soldiers led by the defense minister joined with Moslem guerrillas Tuesday to try to overthrow Afghanistan's gov­ernment, but were defeated by troops loyal to President Najib, Kabul radio reported. 
The official radio said the loyalists controlled Kabul, the capital, and an indefinite cur­few was imposed at 7 p.m. 
In the Soviet Union, which sponsors the N a jib government, the official news agency Tass said: "The loyal troops have now mopped up the main pock­ets of resistance, leaving the si­tuation in Kabul firmly con­trolled by the government." 
Western diplomats, guerrilla leaders in Pakistan and the So­viet media reported heavy fighting and said Afghan air force planes had bombed Arg Palace; Najib's headquarters in the heart of Kabul. 
Heavy artillery and tanks fired for several hours on the buildings of the Defense Min­istry and the army's main polit­ical directorate, Tass said. It information on to Sebe, who ignored it and left for Hong Kong the same day. 

The deposed president appar­ently did not inform his wife, who remained at the official residence in Ciskei. She was taken from the residence Tues­day in a car bearing South African diplomatic license plates. 
Sebe, meanwhile, was ex­pected to return Wednesday to South Africa. His plans were unclear, but it appeared doubt­ful he would try to return to Ciskei. 
South Africa has neither for­mally recognized the new mili­tary rulers nor given any indi­cation that it opposes them. The South Africans recognize the military government in the neighboring Transkei homeland that came to power in a 1987 coup. 
The coup appears to have 
also reported shelling of resi­dential districts, but said they abated after dusk. 
Kabul radio said the coup leader was Maj. Gen. Shah Nawaz Tanai, the defense min­ister, a hard-line Marxist linked to at least of two of the five previous coup attempts re­ported against Najib, who took office in 1986. 
He was joined by followers of the fundamentalist guerrilla leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the radio said. 
Najib said on state television Tuesday night: "Some soiled elements today tried to carry out a conspiracy and provoke bloodshed, but the government forces have neutralized them. They have been suppressed." 
Repeating a message broad­cast earlier in the .day by Inte­rior Minister Aslam Watanjar, who was named to replace Tanai, Najib urged Afghans to help capture the general "dead or alive." He said mutinous soldiers who surrendered by 4 
a.m. Wednesday would be given amnesty. 

wide support in Ciskei. Many residents opposed Sebe and considered his rule oppressive and corrupt. 
But the jubilation over the coup quickly turned violent as drunken mobs rampaged in several towns. 
"It was a drunken orgy of vi­olence.... Dozens of buildings were gutted," said journalist Louise Flanagan. 
Gqozo received a rousing cheer Monday when he told thousands of people at a sta­dium in Bisho that the African National Congress and other anti-apartheid groups would be free to engage in political activ­ity in Ciskei. 
Gqozo said he would like to see Ciskei relinquish its nominal independence and return to South Africa. The Transkei homeland is considering a simi­lar plan. 
Ahmad Sarwar, Afghan am­bassador in New Delhi, said he spoke with Najili by telephone Tuesday night and the president sounded "very strong and very confident." 
"He said everything is under control," said Sarwar, whose wife is a sister to Najib's wife. He said Najib told him one group of Tanai's followers had been killed and another cap­tured. 
Najib did not say when the fighting started or mention where he was when the tele­phone contact was made, Sar­war said. The ambassador said another source in Kabul, whom he would not identify, told him the defense minister was in hiding. 
According to his source, Sar­war said, some of Tanai's sup­porters bombed Kabul from the air, but no bombs fell within 
half  a  mile  of Najib  or  Arg  
Palace.  
Tuesday's  attempted  coup  

was the third said to involve Tanai and Hekmaytar, leader of the Party of Islam. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


"Beware doll, you're bound to fall" 
"You've gone to the finest school, alright, Miss Lonely but you know you only used to get juiced in it. No­body's ever taught you how to live out on the streets and now you're gonna have to 
Joe Moody 
get used to it." 
moaned Bob Dylan Assistant News Editor over America's airwaves 20-some years ago. 
Being enrolled at Notre Dame, it's already a given that you're in the top one percent of the world, advantageously speaking. 
So what if one of us were to fall from such grand stature, from this "high soci­ety"? How would we deal with the tragedy of some unpredictable, total. downfall, hurling us far from the ever-bright goals and secure shields of the University? 
Where are we taught how to rise from our ashes? 
The University mandates that all students receive physical education, theology and philosophy, among other courses. 
Taking physical education usually means taking the likes of social dance, golf, and tennis: a preparation in leisure for a suc­

WEATHER Forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 7. 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © ~~~ ~ m 0 0 " 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
The Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary's College The liturgy sponsored by Emmaus: A Commu­will present "The Cross: Contradiction or Paradox?" by nity with the Handicapped on March 11 will not be held Sister Olivia Marie Hutcheson, the first lecture in the Cen­because of Spring Break. ter's spring series, today at 12:15 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. 
The Deadline for Applications for Assistant 
CILA members will be meeting at 6 p.m. today for Student Body Treasurer is Fri., March 9, at 5 p.m. Appli­dinner at North Dining Hall in the Gold Room (far right) cations may be picked up in the Treasurer's office, 2nd instead of their regular meeting in the esc. Floor LaFortune. 
cessful lifestyle, implying that there will be a dance floor to dance on, a court to serve on and a green to swing on when you enter the real world. 
In philosophy, the noble notion is taught that the "true philosopher" has no need for money and renounces all worldly posses­sions. This, ironically but not surprisingly, is taught by teachers receiving a nice salary. More confusion arises when some philoso­phers contemplate and argue the "merits" of committing suicide. 
In theology, a quotation is echoed from 
Scripture to leave everything and follow the 
I.ord. But even the priests live comfortably, 
eat well, and have a meaningful life to lead. 
All in all, the idealistic sentiments taught on the side don't carry much weight com­pared to the "real curriculum." We're in­structed on the best way to claim our share, our piece of the pie, our chunk of the action, from a privileged stand-point. 
Who do we him to instruct us in tragedy? Who teaches Desolation 101? Or are the only teachers in this field pimps, pushers, and thieves? 
The Lord says, "Look at the birds in the sky. They do not sow or reap or gather into barns; yet your Heavenly Father feeds them." But our society is structured in a way not to accomnwdate this. 
Ours is a dog-eat-dog world, where the prophets proclaim, "Don't worry, be happy," and "Whoever dies with the most toys wins." 
So, while you're still in your prime, go ahead, throw the bums a dime, smile and ask, "llow does it feel?" ... then listen. 
The opinions expressed in the Inside Col­umn art> those of the author and not neces­sarily thosP of The Observer. 
WORLD 

Editors of four leading Israeli daily newspapers All Soviet Block nations except Romania will on Tuesday criticized military censorship of reports about have trade agreements with the European Community by Soviet immigration, arguing the measure hurt Israel's the end of April, a senior official of the community said image and violated press freedom. Their protest came a Tuesday. Frans Andriessen, commissioner for trade and day after U.S. State Department spokeswoman Margaret foreign affairs, said accords with East Germany, Bulgaria Tutwiler urged Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir to recon-and Czechoslovakia would be concluded before the EC sider the censorship order he issued Fridav. The order. summit on Eastern Europe is held April 28 in Dublin, Ire­which prohibited publication of how many immigrants ~r-land. Agreements were signed in 1988 and 1989 with rived in February, was announced last week after offictals Hungary, Poland and the Soviet Union. predicted up to 230,000 Soviets would arrive this year. 
NATIONAL The pool of prospective jurors for John New Coke, the reformulated. sweeter version of Poindexter's Iran-Contra trial grew to 35 Tuesday, Coca-Cola that inspired a consumer rebellion before sink-including a woman who campaigned for Jesse Jackson ing to the bottom tier of soft drink sales, is trying out a and another familiar enough with the case to know new name and a different look, its maker said Tuesday. former President Reagan had refused to turn over his Coca-Cola Co. said it plans to test market new Coke under personal diary. Eleven people were disqualified, including the name Coke II. Spokesman Handy Donaldson said Coke a retired CIA research analyst who conceded the agency 11 would be sold initially in one city, which he would not had made mistakes, "but not very many." On the second identify, within the next few months.The formula of the day of the jury selection process, U.S. District Court newly renamed drink will not be changed, Donaldson said. Judge Harold Greene said, "I think we can do with 45 people" before proceeding with choosing a panel of 12 jurors and six alternates. 
INDIANA 

Jim Davis, creator of the comic strip Garfield, has re-Negotiations resumed on an auto excise tax re­ceived a conservation award for his efforts at improving duction plan Tuesday after Senate Hepublicans put up 70 acres of land near his Indiana office, the Indiana De-new obstacles to a bipartisan compromise proposal an­partment of Natural Resources said Tuesday. Davis, nounced last week. Legislative leaders met for about an whose leading comic character is the mischievous and ir-hour with Gov. Evan Bayh to discuss excise tax proposals reverent lasagna-loving house cat named Garfield, gar-and a House-Senate conference committee talknd about a nered the National Arbor Day Foundation's Good Stew-Republican-backed excise tax proposal but took no ae-
The Observer Wednesday, March 7, 1990 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
ard Award. tion. 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's Staff News Vlewpolnt Peter Yob 
Lisa Eaton Joe Moody Sports Chris Cooney Systems Ad Design Mark Sloan Production 
Deb Walker Jeanne Naylor Val Poletto 
Chris Labaree 
Lisa Eaton 
Ryan Roberts Accent 
Quinn Satepauhoodle Paige A. Smoron Usa Gunsorek Barbara Bryn 
Wendy Cunningham Sports Wednesday Graphics Molly Mahoney Bradford J. Boehm 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
ALMANAC 
On March7: 

e In 1926: The first success­ful trans-Atlantic radio-teh~­phone conversation took place between New York and London. e In 1850: In a three-hour speech before the U.S. Senate, Daniel Webster endorsed the Compromise of 1850 as a means of preserving the Union. e In 1911: The U.S. sent 20,000 troops to the Mexican border as a precaution in the wake of the Mexican Revolu­
tion. e In 1936: Adolf Hitler ordered his troops to march into the Rhineland, breaking the Treaty of Versailles and the Locarno Pact. 
CAMPUS 

Father Paul Waldschmidt, auxiliary bishop of the archdiocese of Portland in Oregon, a 1942 graduate of the University of Notre Dame and a member of its board of fellows and of its trustees from 1962 to 1972, has resigned his post as bishop, citing "reasons of health and age." He asked for and received permission from Pope John Paul II to resign on Jan. 7, his 70th birth­day. 
Security is trying to locate the two stu­dents who found the womAn in the Hesburgh Li­brary bathroom after the apparent sexual as­sault Friday night. Contact Bill Hedl at 239-5555 or 283-4444. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings tor March 6, 1990 
Volume in shares 
140.11 Million 
'i) 2.02 S&P Composite 337.93 'i) 4.19 Dow Jones Industrials 2,676.80 'i) 27.25 
Precious Metals Gold {1 $0.50 to $403.601 oz. 
Silver{! .1¢ to $5.12 I oz. 

Source: AP 

Wednesday, March 7, 1990 
HPC announces date for March Jazz Fest. 
By PAUL PEARSON Assistant News Editor 
Tlw llall Presidents' Council unanimously approved a Stu­(h~nt SPnatP n~sol uti on enmting ofT-campus eo-presidents and installing them as voting mem­bPrs of tlw senatP Tuesday. 
Tlw proposal had aln~ady bPen approwd in tlw senate by a votP of 14-2. 
At IIPC's weekly meeting, StudPnt Body PrPsident Matt BrPslin also presPntPd a senate proposal to create a Minority lkprPsentativP in the senate. 
Aeeording to tlw proposal. tlw Minority Hnpn~sentativn would bP sPieetPd by the Multi­Cultural Executive Committee and would bP a voting nwmbPr of tlw SPIHttn. 
Student SPnator Sigi Loya said. "ThP issues raised in the seJHttP are important Pnough to makP it a voting nwmbPr." Con­r«'rning tlw possibility of mak­ing tlw rPpresentativP a non­voting mPmbPr, lw said. "Anyo1w who shows up at th1~ nwnting is a non-voting mem­
bPr... 
Tlw Following Pvents wen~ also announrPd : 
•Seott llarris of Student 
Union Board announced that the campus band St. Paul and the Marytrs will perform Pink Floyd's album The Dark Side of the Moon at Washington Hall on March 22 and 23. Tickets 
for each performance cost three dollars. and all proceeds will benefit the St. Hedwig's Outreach Center and YWCA's women's shelter. 
•Doug 
lleberie of Irish Accent announced that the comedy theatre and improvisation group will perform a piece ti­tled "SeP llow They Hun" in the Blue Hoom of the North Dining llall on March 23 and 24. 

•Kasey 
Smith, the regional director for Best Buddies, an­nounced that the group wants to start chapters of the organi­.zation at Notrn Dame and Saint Mary's. Applications for Chap­ter Director will be available at the Center for Social Concerns. 

•Kim 
Bruce of the Collegiate .Jazz Festival announced that tlw festival will be held March 30 and 31 at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 

•IIPC 
also announced that applications for the Sowder Award. an award for dorm spirit, and for the Rector of the Year Award are due on April 3. 




Run while you can 

As the ice and snow melts from campus streets, runners like Jeff Hurlbert reemerge from their winter hibernation. The ice may soon return however, as the next few days are expected to bring showers and freezing rain. 
Buckey pleads innocent to all ei ht revived charges in McMartin case 
LOS ANGELES (i\P) -Hay­mond Burkey pleaded innocent Tuesday to eight revived rharges involving three girls in the McMartin Pre-School mo­lestation rase after his attorney n~quested that a sex charge slated for dismissal be retained. 
"I am innocent. your honor, I pl1~ad not guilty." Burkey told Superior Court .Judge Stanley Weisberg. The judge formally dismissed four unresolved charges against Buckey and held in abeyance one eontested charge. 
The case now has been re­duced from hundreds of counts that once involved 41 alleged abuse victims from the now-de­funct Manhattan Beach preschool. 
Defense attorney Danny Davis asked the judge not to dismiss one allegation against Buckey involving the son of .Judy Johnson, the mother whose complaints triggered the investigation, saying it would allow him to present to jurors "the genesis of this case." 
The defense has previously said the case was the result of community hysteria churned by .Johnson, who also accused a Los Angeles school board member of molesting her child. She has since died of a liver ailment related to alcoholism. 
"It seems a little strange that the defense would be objecting to the dismissal of this particu­lar count, but I'm willing to lis­ten," Weisberg said. 
An afternoon hearing was scheduled to hear that motion and another by Davis to remove the Los Angeles district attor­ney's office from the case. 
Davis said statements by Dis­trict Attorney Ira Reiner indi­cate he has forfeited objectivity 



Raymond Buckey 

in the ease. He -cited a state Supreme Court ruling that in the test of a prosecutor's office decision to pursue charges "it is not that it shall win a case, but that justice shall be done." 
Deputy District Attorney Joseph Martinez said Reiner has a right to his opinion. 
"What the D.A. is saying is that he believes Buckey to have committed these offenses. What kind of a D.A. would say that he is going to prosecute some­one that he feels is innocent?" Martinez asked before the hearing. 

There were 13 counts unre­solved by jurors in the trial, which lasted nearly three years and cost taxpayers more than $10 million. Jurors in the first trial were leaning toward ac­quittal of the charges involving the three youngsters in the new trial. 
"I don't know why they're doing it," Buckey said outside the courtroom before his ar­raignment on the renewed charges. "They've got three of their weakest witnesses." 
Buckey predicted trial would take a year. "Another year of McMartin, mini-McMartin, chiseled down as this case goes .oto overtime, falling apart un­til finally the second jury kicks it out." 
Davis said two of the three children testified at the first trial, and included fantastic ac­counts of molestation. He also said at other stages of the case they recanted and then restated the allegations. 
"They will say Ray Buckey wore a beard and a mustache, flew in an airplane.... We will have stories of a house with seven, eight bubble baths being taken by children all over the house, stories of a Farmer Bill, stories of going to a ranch," said Davis, referring to the previous testimony by the girls. 
When Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, finally came to trial in 1987, what had originally been hundreds of counts of child molestation was pruned to 64 counts. 
The Colleges of Arts & Letters and Business Administration 
proudly present: 
Joseph Pichler President &Chief Executive Officer, Kroger Company 
speaking on 

"Ethics and Business" 
Wednesday, March 7 4:30p.m. Library Auditorium 


Pelton 
continued from page 1 
Pelton's role as official ob­server was to "see that the elections were honest." He said he was instructed not to express his political views while in Nicaragua. 
Pelton estimated the number of official observers in Nicaragua to be close to two hundred. In addition to these appointed observers, there were many more unofficial ob­servers on hand to witness the election, Pelton said. 
Pelton was given interna­tional observer privileges, which meant he could go any­where in Nicaragua and moni­tor the election procedures. 
"I wanted to get in as many places as I could," Pelton said, but no buses were running that day in order to ensure that voters would stay home and vote in their proper districts. 

A taxi drove Pelton to several small towns about 60 miles outside of Managua, the capital of Nicaragua. 
The Nicaraguan peasants were very respectful of the elec­toral process, Pelton said. It was almost "as if they were go­ing to church." 
The voters lined up orderly at the polls, Pelton said. Each voter had to show his "carnet" (identification card), was given three ballots and had to mark the ballots while in an enclosed booth. 
Upon exiting the voting booth. the voter had to place one ballot each in three boxes. 
each box marked for presiden­tial, national assembly and mu­nicipal elections, according to Pelton. The openings in the boxes were such that one could not see into them. Before a voter exited the building. a mark was placed on his thumb to ensure that no one voted twice. 
Pelton said that about 90 percent of all eligible voters in Nicaragua were registered for the elections. He estimated the percentage of registered voters who voted to be 85 percent or above. 
Pelton said that many were "shocked" with the results of the election. He cited two fac­tors as reasons for Ortega's defeat: the economy and mili­tary conscriptions. 
"It was not so much a rejec­
tion of the [Sandinista] revolu­tion, but it was a realization" that many Nicaraguans were suffering under the poor econ­omy, Pelton said. Pelton added that the U.S. economic em­bargo of Nicaragua had a sig­nificant effect on the election results. 
Pelton also discussed the im­plications of Chamorro's vic­tory. 
A clarification of the role of the military is now an impor­tant question, Pelton said. He emphasized that the Sandin­istas captured 40 percent of the vote and are a solid party, while UNO is only a coalition of fourteen parties. 
The Contras could also pre­sent a problem, said Pelton. "They might not put down their arms," Pelton said. "They 
don't have the highest quality personnel. It could be a real mess." 
Pelton said that former U.S. President Jimmy Carter played an important role in the ob­server system. Carter heads the Council of Freely Elected States and "does highly respected work around the world." Carter and representatives from his organization were in Nicaragua to observe the elections. 
Pelton believes there is a bright outlook for observer programs in future elections all over the world. 
"There is tremendous hope and great potential" for legiti­mate democratic elections in the future, Pelton said. He con­cluded he "felt good now" be­cause the democratic voting process "is so valuable." 


we're majoriog
inaspecial subject.
lOu. 

Get ready to fly for on~}' $/18 roundtrip-twice. Choose from many ofthe 
You're part of a special group
more than 180 Northwest Airlines cities in the 48 contiguous United States. 
of people. So we've created special privileges with you in mind. 
The tough assignments and long nights of college will soon pay off. In fact, they already have. 
As a student with a bright Day or night, future, you're eligible for American we're here to answer 
Express® Cardmembership now. 
questions or 
You see, we believe in your potential. 
help you in an 
That's why we've made it easier 
emergency. 
for you to qualify for the Card on your own, even if you don't have a job. And by becoming a Cardmem­ber now, you can take advantage 
Exclusive discounts, articles, profiles 
of the exclusive Northwest studcnl ... American Express®Card CONNECTIONS is the 
travel privilege pictured here. 
magazine designed especially for students. 
The fact is, we've added special student benefits like these because we're dedicated to serving our Cardmembers.
Ifsomething you JUSt bought is accidentally damaged, lost or stolen-no problem. just about So apply now. About six weeks everything you buy with the Card is protected. after the Card arrives, you'll receive 
your Northwest travel certificates~ 
Call today. We're looking for­ward to welcoming one of our most important Cardmembers. You. 
Acceptance is easier now, while you're in school, than it ever will be again. 

To apply, all Membership Has Its Privileges® you have to do is call. 
APPLY NOW: 

1-800-446-5389 
~ 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

*If you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question on this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express, P.O. Box 35029, Attn: Studtnt Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are non· refundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not always be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll·800·446·5389. © 1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS" CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 
·,

.. ...... .-. ' t , I' •" ••••. • • "• "4' • •' ... r \ ~ • , • , • " ......J'tl: ( 6 ... •a •, 0 I .. f • ( J 'I 
-------·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


Wednesday, March 7, 1990 
'Doomsday' delayed another four minutes 
CHICAGO (API -The count­down to nuclear disaster counted backward four minutes Tuesday when The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists reset its fa­mous "Doomsday Clock" to re­flect the easing of superpower tensions. 
'The likelihood of a full-scale nuclear holocaust has been re­duced." said Leonard Hieser. chairman of the board of direc­tors, before pushing the clock's minute hand back, to 10 min­utes bpfore midnight. 
Hecent revolutionary changes in Eastern Europe and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's commitment to helping lift the Iron Curtain led the magazine's board to change the clock for the eighth time in its 43-year history, Hieser told reporters. 
The bronze, 18-inch clock hangs in the Bulletin's head­quarters on the University of Chicago campus. Its hour hand is always positioned at mid­night. symbolizing doomsday. <tr!d the minute hand is super­imposed on a map of the world. 
There are no numbers, just points marking fifteen, ten, five and zero minutes to nuclear disaster. 
Tuesday's change was not the 
farth1~st  from  doomsday  the  
dock  has  berm  set.  nor  the  
biggest change.  

Nuclear warheads still prolif­erate, more countries an~ gain­ing access to atomic weapons, and the changes in Eastern Eu­rope have resulted in ethnic warring. Hieser said. 
But "to fail to acknowledge the changes in the political cli­mate would be wrong," said Hieser. a Dartmouth College physicist. 
"Most Americans have thought of the Cold War as a permanent facet of interna­tional relations," said Gloria Duffy, a board member and president of Global Outlook. a Palo Alto, Calif., security re­search institute. 
"They never expected it to change in their lifetime." 
But it's happened with the fall of the Berlin Wall and Gor­bachcv's policy of openness. 
said Duffy. 
The 21 directors, 41 sponsor­ing scientists and editor of the Bulletin voted in January on changing the clock. 
Only four said the clock shouldn't be changed; two wanted it set even farther from doomsday. 
Dr. Michael McCally, a Uni­versity of Chicago physician, was among those opposing change. 
"My concern is with the weapons" proliferation around the world, McCally said. 
"My perception of the risk is that it's not changed a great deal." he said. 
The clock first appeared on the June 1947 Bulletin cover as a symbol of impending apoca­lypse and of the potential for military attack. 
The clock's hands last moved in 1988, shifting from three minutes to six minutes before doomsday to reflect the signing of the U.S.-Soviet treaty to eliminate intermediate-range nuclear forces. 
It came closest to midnight ­just two minutes away -in 1953, after the United States successfully tested the hydrogen bomb. 
Twice the clock's minute hand registered 12 minutes to mid­night -two minutes farther ·from danger than the latest setting -in 1963, after the signing of the Partial Test Ban Treaty, and in 1972, when the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty was signed. 
It has been moved backward by as much as live minutes -in 1960 to reflect growing public understanding of the dangers of nuclear war, and in 1963 in response to the test ban treaty. 
And it was moved forward five minutes in 1968, when France and China acquired nu­clear weapons. 
The Bulletin was founded in 1945 by scientists who worked at the University of Chicago's Manhattan Project -the U.S. effort that built the atomic bomb. 
The Observer 


The ObserverfT. Reymond 

Time out for movies 
Dave Archer and Mike Dougherty select a movie from the video vendor in the basement of the LaFor­
tune Student Center. As mid-terms wind up, many students look for ways to pass free time until spring 
break.. 
Hope for peace rises in Northern Ireland 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) -All sides in Northern Ireland, from the IRA to Ian Paisley. are talking about peace, but not to each other as yet. 
With Catholics and Protes­tants both unhappy with the status quo,. feelers sprout from many directions: from Irish Prime Minister Charles Haughey, the Protestant leaders of the Unionist parties, the main Roman Catholic parties, and the British government. 
The contacts continued Tues­day as Peter Brooke, the top British official in the province, met with three Unionists. 
"We didn't expect there would be any startling devel­opment," said Ken Maginnis, a member of Parliament from the Ulster Unionist Party. Magin­nis, whose goal is the creation of a provincial government to end 18 years of direct rule from London, said no one should ex­pect a sudden breakthrough. 
"I want to see a devolved government ... but I want to see something that people will feel confident with, not something that becomes just another mill­stone around our necks," Mag­innis said. 
The "millstone," as Unionists see it, is the Anglo-Irish Agreement signed by Britain and Ireland in the Northern Ireland village of Hillsborough in 1985. 
The treaty guaranteed Ire­
land an advisory role in North­
ern Ireland affairs and pledged 
the two govermJlents to coop-

is looking for a design major or an artistically inclined individual seeking practical experience to fill the following position: 
Graphics Editor 
• 
Responsible for composition of computer graphics for News, Sports and Accent pages 

• 
Will gain valuable experience in Mac Draw and Adobe Illustrator and excellent portfolio material for future job or internship searches. 


A two-page application, a resume and any relevant work samples should be submitted to Alison Cocks by Thursday, March 9. For further information about the benefits of this position, contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471 
erate against terrorism. 
Outraged Unionists, who saw it as a step toward Irish unity, retreated into a policy seen on walls and billboards all around Northern Ireland: "Ulster says 
no!" 
Earlier this year, a poll for The Belfast Telegraph and the BBC found that 81 percent of Catholics and 87 percent of Protestants believe the Hills­borough treaty had harmed re­lations between the two com­munities. 
While 53 percent of Catholics said the status quo would be "acceptable" for the future, only 22 percent of Protestants agreed. In other words, two­thirds of the total rejected the status quo. 
Catholic and Protestant aspi­rations converged on proposals for a power-sharing adminis­tration in Northern Ireland, in which Catholic participation would be guaranteed. That was acceptable to 7 5 percent of Protestants and 64 percent of Catholics. 
That option scored higher among Catholics than unity with Ireland, which was "acceptable" to 60 percent. The poll was based on interviews with 1,000 adults in January. 
The recent flurry of contacts started with a speech Brooke gave on Jan. 9. "Much work needs to be done," he said, "but there may now, in my judgment, be enough common ground to make worthwhile the start of talks soon on new arrange­ments for exercising political 
page 5 
power within Northern Ire­land." 
In recent weeks, he has met with Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, and James Molyneux, leader of the larger Ulster Unionist Party, and separately with John Hume of the mainly Catholic Social Democratic and Labor Party. 
The latest overture has come from Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish Republican Army. 
"I do think people have a re­sponsibility to sit down and ex­plore and explain, to adopt a modern approach, a '90s ap­proach rather than a '70s," Sinn Fein vice-president Martin McGuinness said in an interview published in The Sunday Corre­spondent in London. 
"We are prepared to take part in a peace process," said McGuinness, considered a hard­liner within Sinn Fein. 
He did not say the IRA was prepared to stop shooting -a step Brooke has said is essen­tial before even thinking about negotiations. 
As their condition for talking, Unionists have demanded a suspension of the despised An­glo-Irish Agreement. Brooke and Irish Foreign Minister Gerry Collins have rejected any formal suspension, although Brooke indicated there might be some informal pause. 
Just last week, Maginnis and two other Unionists lost a bid to have Ireland's Supreme Court invalidate the Anglo-Irish Agreement as being in conflict with the Irish Constitution, which makes a territorial claim on the whole island. 
Hume, the architect of the Anglo-Irish Agreement, has said if Paisley and Molyneux are sincere, they should tell their followers: '"I have ideas which are better than what's sitting there at the minute, and I'm going in there to negotiate them.' That's what politicians would do if they are serious." 
We need you. 

Summer jobs 

Over 50,000 summer job openings at Re$0rts. Camps. Amusement Parks, Businesses, Cruise Lines, Ranches. and more in the U.S .. Canada, 
Australia. and 20 other countries. Complete directory only $t 9.95. Don't wait till after finals. Send to Summer Jobs, Drawer 38039, Colorado Springs, CO 80937 

~age 6 The Observer Wednesday, March 7, 
1990 
Interested in fame, money an power. 

ell, who isn't? We need people interested in getting involved and working hard. 


Applications are now available for Student Government Cabinet position for 1990-1991. Applications and job descriptions may be obtained at the Student Government secretary's office (2nd floor LaFortune) beginning 
March 1st, and must be returned by March 9th 
The following positions are available: 
Student Body Secretary 
Executive Coordinators for: Intellectual Life •Public Relations •Student Life •Special Projects •Legal Department •Board of Tn1stee Report 

Commissioners & Assistant Commissioners for: 
Academics • Political Concerns • Iceberg Debates • World Awareness Series • Social Concerns Hall Fellows Programs • Faculty-Senate Liaison • Intellectual Life 
lumni Relations • ND/SMC Relations • Photography • Correspondence • Lay-out/Design • Foreign Relation 
Women's Concerns • Minority/Cultural Concerns • Campus Improvements • Security Alcohol/Food/Health • Student Services • Legal Department Researchers & Policy Analysts 


uestions? Call Robert (#1712) or Fred (#1734) 

Wednesday, March 7, 1990 
Three U.S. soldiers charged as smugglers 

MIAMI (AP) -Three people linked to a scheme to use U.S. soldiers to smuggle cocaine from Panama to this country were ordered held after appearing before a magistrate, authorities said Tuesday. 
The soldiers allegedly were hired by Colombian smugglers to bring cocaine in duffel bags aboard military flights to the United States. CBS News re­ported Monday night. 
CBS n~ported on a smuggling ring broken up recently in Panama. The network. quoting unidentified military sources, rPported that at least nine peo­pl1~. including two Americans, wern arrnstl~d. 
Thn thn~e who appeared be­foro the fednral magistrate in Fort l.audPrdale on Monday arn rhargnd with conspiracy to im­port cocaine. 
The three. idnntifind only as .John Don III. John Doe VII and Jane Don II. are linked to an in­wstigation of the soldiers, gov-Prnnwnt sources said on condi­tion of anonymity. 
F1~deral documnnts said the eoeairw smuggling involving the three wPnt on from Oct. 1. 1989, to Fnb. 19, 1990. 
If convicted, the three could be sentenced to at least ten years in prison. Documents re­lated to their court appearance before U.S. Magistrate Lurana Snow were ordered sealed by the U.S. attorney in Miami. 
Diane Cossin, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney's office, said that several sparse docu­mPnts released Tuesday were the only information being re­leased. 
A federal official familiar with court policy said it is at­towable in some circumstances to seal documents related to a court appearance to prevent tho release of details of an on­going investigation. 
Doug Tillett, a Justice De­partment spokesman, referred all questions to the U.S. attor­ney's office in Miami. A Pen­tagon spokesman also declined comment on the case. 
The CBS report said U.S. sol­diers took payoffs of up to $10,000 from Colombian drug suppliers to bring cocaine home. 
One serviceman confessed that he recruited soldiers to smuggle cocaine aboard the flights home, CBS said. 
The Observer is always looking for new faces. Write for News, Accent, Sports or Viewpoint. Join the Ad department or work in the Production aspect of the paper. There are many ways that you can contribute to your paper. 
Call The Observer today at 239-5303. You'll be glad you did. 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

Day Chief 
For information, please contact Kelley Tuthill at 239-5303. To apply for the position, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 7. 

GOURMET BURGERS & ICE CREAM 

DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR 
3602 Grape Road • Mishawaka, IN 255-5525 

~------------T------------~

: Dinner for 2 : Sundae : 
: $899 Sa;2e~;er; 99¢ ;
I For I I 
I PJck any two Gourmet Sandwiches, I Buy any size sundae and I I two Garden Salads, plus your choice of I ce" d f th I 
· · R' d 2 re JVe a secon one o e
Freneh Fnes or 0 mon mgs an 1 · 1

I 
Mmi-Sundaes. Same SIZe for 99' I Expires 3/14/90. I Expires 3/14/90. I 
: • \" \ \ •' I ,·I .l ·, • . . • . .
~------------A------~--~--~ 
AP Photo 
Fall of Lenin 

Two Rumanian citizens make a fist at the head of the Lenin statue, after two cranes lifted it from its base in front of the State Publishing House in Bucharest, Monday. 



East sides with West on human rights vote 
GENEVA (AP) -In votes without precedent in U.N. his­tory, two reform-minded East European countries sided with Western delegations Tuesday on resolutions dealing with the human rights situations in Cuba and China. 
A U.S.-initiated measure crit­ical of practices under Presi­dent Fidel Castro was passed 19-12 in the U.N. Human Rights Commission, with Hun­gary and Bulgaria among those voting in favor while the Soviet Union cast a dissenting ballot. 
Poland and Czechoslovakia, attending as non-voting ob­servers, added to the Havana government's isolation by co­sponsoring the text introduced by U.S. chief delegate Armando Valladares, a former Cuban political prisoner, 
Hungary and Bulgaria also joined the West in opposing a proposal by Pakistan that no action be taken on a mildly worded resolution on China. The resolution included a guarded reference to last June's bloody crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing. 

However, the Pakistani mo­tion narrowly carried, the re­sult of intensive Chinese lobby­ing among Third World mem­bers of the 43-nation organiza­tion. 
The U.S. resolution on Cuba had been gradually softened following consultation with other Western delegations. Valladares hailed its approval as a "victory for the fight for human rights around the world." 
It expresses "concern" at re­ports that witnesses who testi­fied before commission mem­bers visiting Cuba on an un­precedented fact-finding mis­sion in 1988 were subsequently subject to arrest, harassment and other reprisals. 
Cuba is called upon to honor its guarantees not to take any action against these witnesses and to provide the commission 
is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
Assistant Production Managers 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal 
statement to Joe Zadrozny by 5 p.m. Friday, March 9. For further information, contact Joe Zadrozny at 239-7471. at 283-3128. 

GETACTIVE!! 
"with a response to unan­swered questions" put to the Cuban authorities by mission members. 
The resolution asks U.N. Sec­retary General Javier Perez de Cuellar to provide the commis­sion with results of contacts he promised to maintain with Cuba on the issue. 
The 1988 mission, which had been invited by Cuba, compiled a largely noncommittal report listing allegations of gross vio­lations together with denials by Havana and claims of a clean record. 
Cuban Deputy Foreign Minis­ter Raul Roa Kouri, addressing the commission before the roll­call vote, said the resolution was "totally unacceptable." 
He branded it "yet another 
U.S. attempt to obtain through pressure what it could not ob­tain through aggression by mercenaries, terrorist infiltra­tion, murder attempts on our leaders and economic block­ade." 
Valladares told reporters that Cuba now would have to give comprehensive answers to questions on basic freedoms, as well as to allegations of torture and other abuses involving hundreds of people.. 
He said the U.S. move ob­tained a majority because "no one wants to be associated with Cuba" after what happened to Nicolae Ceausescu, the Roma­nian Communist dictator who was overthrown and executed last December. 
"Romania could happen all over again in Cuba, but even worse," he said. "I am very op­timistic, I think the days of Latin America's last dictator­ship are numbered." 



RECYCLE 

IDTRE IWIE 
llCCYrtllf 11/IJN 

a planet is a terrible thing to waste 
I Aluminum e Newspapers e Glass For more information contact Paul Ruesch 277-6172, or call239-7668 
, •'' o • '"· r' I • .# • 1-o . • •· ~ • . • . • • ' .1 .l 
-----------------~~~ ~­







ICEBERG DEBATES 

Library Auditorium 9-10 P.M. 
FINAL ROUND 

BREEN-PHILLIPS VS PANGBORN 
"That the Catholic Church should not require priests to be celibate." $500 prize to the winning dorm. *Reception to follow* 

page 9

Wednesday, March 7, 1990 

AP Photo 

War games 
A young Chinese boy fires his toy pistol at imaginary enemies in Beijing yesterday evening. 
U.S. is uncertain about hostages 
WASIIINGTON lAP) -Seern­State Department siderable influence over tary of StalP .Jamt~s Baker said spokeswoman Margaret llezbollah. the umbrella group Tw~sday he was unable to judge Tutwiler, commenting on for radical Shiite Moslems be­rPports suggesting that Ameri­speculation about the hostages, lieved to be holding some of the can hostages in Lebanon will be said, "I don't know why this hostages. Syria is the main frnNI soon but added that the many rumors are out here. I power broker in Lebanon, with 
nxistPncn of such speculation is don't have an explanation for 40,000 troops there. Pncouraging. that." While saying there is nothing Baker. askt~d if the adminis­Baker. asked by reporters if to suggest an imminent release tration had reason for opti­he were encouraged by state­of the hostages, the adminis­
mism about the hostages, ments from Iran. said, "We tration says there are a lot of n~plind. "I don't know. I mean, don't have any better way of talks going on behind the you're asking me if all the judging that right now, frankly, scenes by officials outside the 
smoke out thern means there is than you do. We see what is U.S. government. a lire." coming across here, and we are Eighteen Westerners, includ­lie added, "We certainly hope encouraged by the fact there is ing eight Americans, are being that the hostages will be re­speculation. Let's see if that held captive in Lebanon. 
leased. We'd like to see anybody speculation proves out." The longest-held hostage is that could have innuence in A senior administration offi­Terry Anderson, chief Middle that regard weigh in." cial, speaking on condition of East correspondent for The As­
Baker commented at the anonymity. said, "We see a lot sociated Press, who will mark State Department about the of stuff going on. his fifth anniversary in captivity latest in a string of reports in "It's kind of like watching a on March 16. 
The Tehran Times, in a sec­Iranian newspapers, as well as lot of action under a blanket," 
optimistic assessments by Syr­the official added. "We're not ond editorial, said said Syrian President Hafez Assad would
ian officials. suggesting that quite s.~re who's doing what to the long hostage ordeal may be whom. visit Tehran soon, after an ex­ending. The official said, "We're pected trip by his foreign minis­
The Tehran Times, a newspa­hopeful. We don't know enough ter, Farouk Al-Sharaa. It also per close to Iran's president, to be optimistic." denied reports that a trip by said in an editorial that 1990 White House press secretary the brother of Iranian President would be the last year of Marlin Fitzwater, asked about Hashemi Rafsanjani to the 
captivity for the hostages. the latest Tehran Times report, Syrian capital of Damascus last The report also said resump­said, "It's just pretty hard to week was related to the tion of U.S.-Iranian ties was judge it. We certainly hope it's hostage question. 
not a precondition for the In Beirut, the respected An­
true." hostages' release. Iran is believed to exert con-Nahar daily ruled out any 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD EVENTS THIS WEEK: 
HERLTHY SNRCK BRERK TO DRY IN FRONT OF HRGGRR FROM 12:00 TO 3:00 ENJOY THE BENEFITS OF WELLNESSMC 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN TURNING IN SUBMISSIONS FOR CHIMES PLEASE DROP THEM OFF AT THE CHIMES OFFICE AT 310 MADELEVA 
COMING LATER THIS MONTH: ROOM PICKS, CLUB TUESDAY AND "DEAD POET'S SOCIETY" 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, MARCH 1 
10:37 a.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of his checkbook from his room. The theft occurred sometime between 2 and 5 p.m. on Feb. 27. 
3:47 p.m. Notre Dame Security were called to the scene of a four car pile up on Juniper Road. No injuries were sus­tained. 
6:24 p.m. Notre Dame Security re­sponded to the report of a two car acci­dent on Juniper Road. No injuries were reported. 
7:11 p.m. Notre Dame Fire and Security Departments were called to the kitchen ef Siegfried Hall to extinguish a grease fire. The students put the fire out them­selves prior to arrival of the two depart­ments. Damages are estimated at $400. 
FRIDAY, MARCH 2 

2:50 a.m. Two students were walking near the road construction in the B-1 lot. The students stepped on a large piece of ice which covered a three foot deep hole in the ground. Both students fell into the hole. Neither student was seriously in­jured. 
7:30 a.m. An off-campus student re­ported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from the front of Club 23. The theft oc­curred at approximately 11 :45 p.m. on March 1. The victim's loss is estimated to be $200. 
10 a.m. A Badin Hall resident reported the theft of her unlocked bike from the west side of LaFortune Student Center. The theft occurred between 9:25 and 
9:40 a.m. The victim's loss is estimated at $50. 
2:09 p.m. A South Bend resident re­ported that her vehicle had been dam­aged in a hit and run accident in the B-1 lot. 
6:06p.m. Notre Dame Security cited a South Bend resident for No Driver's License When Required and for Disregarding a Stop Sign at the corner of Bulla and Ivy Roads. 
10:30 p.m. An usher at the JACC re­ported vandalism to the gold lettering in the JACC concourse. Unknown. per­son(s) had knocked down five letters. 
11 
:15 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident re­ported the theft of his jacket from the stands at Bengal Bouts. The victim's loss is estimated to be $230. 

11 
:15 p.m. While attending Bengal Bouts in the JACC, a resident of South Bend was the victim of a pickpocket. Her total loss is estimated at $852. 


SATURDAY, MARCH 3 
1:26 a.m. Two residents of Grace Hall reported thefts from their unlocked rooms. The thefts occurred between 
8:30 p.m. on March 2 and 1:30 a.m. on March 3. Their combined loss is $333. 
6:44 a.m. Notre Dame Security re· ported that unknown person(s) had twisted the antenna on the car while the officer was servicing a call in Badin Hall. 
11:10 a.m. A Morrissey Hall resident 
hostage release soon but quoted unidentified Lebanese fundamentalist sources as say­ing Iran was prepared to tackle the hostage issue. 
The sources were quoted as saying there had been no direct contacts between Iran and the United States, but both were scouting for what was de­scribed as a mechanism for re­leasing the hostages. The re­port did not elaborate. 
reported the theft of cash from his wallet. Unknown person(s) had entered the unlocked room while the roommates were sleepinq. 
3:25 p.m. A resident of Morrissey Hall reported the theft of cash from the desk drawer of his unlocked room. The theft occurred between 6:30 p.m. on March 2 and 1 a.m. on March 3. 
7:30 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident re­ported that his car had been vandalized while parked in the D-2 lot. The mirror from his vehicle had been removed. His loss is estimated at $10. 
8 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident re­ported the theft of cash from a wallet in his unlocked room. The theft occurred between 1 and 9 a.m. 
8 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident re­ported the theft of cash from his wallet in his room. Unknown person(s) had en­tered the room sometime during the night while the victim slept. 
9:54 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident re­ported the theft of his vanity plates from his car. The theft occurred between 
11 :30 p.m. on March 2 and 1:45 p.m on March 3. while his car was parked in the D-1 lot. His loss is estimated at $50. 
SUNDAY, MARCH 4 

2 a.m. Notre Dame Security stopped and issued a ticket to a South Bend man for illegal entry to campus. The suspect had allegedly gained entry to campus by breaking the gate arm at Saint Mary's Road. 
2:36 a.m. A Farley Hall resident re­ported harassment at an off-campus party by two other Notre Dame students. 
4:45 a.m. A Penn. resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for Disregarding a Stop Sign at the corner of Angela Blvd. and Juniper Road. 
12:15 p.m. A resident of Morrissey Hall reported the theft of cash from his un­locked room while the victim slept. 
6 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported the theft of cash from her unattended book bag on the second floor of the li­brary. The theft occurred between 2:45 and6 p.m. 
10:55 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of a ring from his un­locked room. The theft occurred be­tween 6:30 and 7 p.m., and the victim's loss is estimated to be $190. 
11:11 p.m. Notre Dame Fire and Security Departments responded to a fire alarm at Stanford Hall. Unknown person(s) had thrown a firecracker in the hallway which burned a spot in the car­peting. 
MONDAY, MARCH 5 

1:59 a.m. A resident of Grace Hall re­ported the theft of two rings from his room. The victim's loss is estimated to be $579. 
3:36 a.m. A Grace Hall resident re­ported the theft of an unattended Sony walkman and cassette from the 4th floor of the library. The theft occurred be­tween 9:30 and 11 :30 p.m. on March 4. 
The Tehran Times, for the second time in as many weeks, said the hostages should go free without preconditions. In the past, the paper has re­flected the thinking of Rafsan­jani. 
It said an effort was under way to free the hostages be­cause "Islam in no way allows or condones the idea that peo­ple should be taken or held hostage." 
PLACEMENT EXAMS 
FRENCH SPANISH 
Mandatory Placement Exams in 
FRENCH and SPANISH will be given on: 
Thursday, March 8 
and 
Friday, March 9 respectively. 
Students who have studied French or 
Spanish in High School but have not yet taken a course in these languages at Notre Dame m u s t take a Placement Exam prior to registration. 
ign up sheets and further information are available now in th 
Language Lab Office Rm. 251 O'Shaughnessy 
Sign up closes on Wednesday, March 7 at 5:00 .m • 
. .( .. .: 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 





Viewpoint 
Wednesday, March 7, 1990page 10 

The _Qbset:Ver-=-= 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a R1ch Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor Matthelo'i Gallagher Advertising Manager . Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager ..Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ... Enc Ba1ley OTS Director. .Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnst1ne G1ll Controller .Anne L1ndner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by !he students of the Umvers1· ty of Notre Dame duLac and Saini Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1mstrat10n of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as possible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the majority of the follow•ng Ed•tor-1n-Ch1el. Manag1ng Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentanes, letters, and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the commuOIIy and the free expression of vary1ng op1nions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
r 

Stop false accusations about U.S. intervention 

Rick Acker In My Opinion 
American intervention in the affairs of other countries is nothing new. Neither are the basic arguments used to criti­cize it. Every time America uses its political, economic, or mili­tary muscle to force changes in foreign nations, critics voice the same two basic complaints. First, they argue that America intervenes on behalf of totali­tarian, right wing forces. Sec­ond, they argue that American aetions are based on some im­pure motive, usually naked self­interest or anti-communist paranoia. 
The problem with th1~ first argument is that it is no longer tnw. America doesn't support right wing totalitarianism and hasn't for some time. It is true that America did support a number of unpleasant govern­ments and political groups during the first 75 ymtrs of this ePntury. We intervmwd on be­half' of dictators in Cuba, Nicaragua, Chile, Cambo(;lia, and a host of other places. American leaders knew per­fectly well that they were frus­trating the wishes of the people and promoting oppression in 
these countries, but felt that this was a necessary evil in the fight against communism and the promotion of American in­terests. 
However, starting in about 1975 it became increasingly clear that totalitarian, right wing governments were unsta­ble. In 1975 we lost Vietnam and Cambodia to radical, anti­American revolution. The same thing happened to Iran and Nicaragua in 1979. By 1980, we were also in danger of losing El Salvador, the Philippines, and South Korea. 
American foreign policy needed to be changed, and it was. American decided to not only stop supporting right wing dictatorships, but actually to oppose thPm. We knew that these govl'rnments were going to be driven out. but we hoped to keep them from being re­plaeed by radical. anti-Ameri­can forces. The idea was to 

turn unstable pro-American dictatorships into stable pro­American democracies. This change was gradual (we sup­ported both Marcos and Nor­iega well into the 1980's), but it was also complete and appar­ently permanent. 
The new American policy of consistently supporting democ­racy and opposing tyranny of both the Left and the Right has been remarkably successful. We have not lost a single ally to anti-American revolution in over ten years. Moreover, we now have full democracies in South Korea and Panama, and at least partial democracies in El Salvador and the Philippines. We are even winning back some of the countries we lost in the 1970s. Nicaragua is once again Pro-American and Vietnam is desperate for American aid. 
With this kind of success, it is unlikely that American will go back to supporting right wing totalitarianism. Thus, the first argument of' the critics is dearly both false and obsolete. 
The problem with the second argument is that it doesn't matter much. Even if America does intervene out of naked self-interest or anti-communist paranoia, why should we care? As long as the intervention promotes democracy and op­poses tyranny, the motivation for it is irrelevant. 
Moreover, it is usually impos­sible to tell what the motive be­hind a particular American ac­tion was. As I just pointed out, supporting democracy is an ex­cellent way to both fight com­munism and promote our self­interest. Our recent invasion of Panama, for instance, can be explained equally well by anti­communism (Noriega was an ally of Cuba, Nicaragua, and the Salvadoran rebels), by self­interest (Noriega frustrated American businesses and anti­drug programs), and by an al­truistic love of democracy (Noriega ran one of the most corrupt and oppressive dicta­torships in the Western llemi­sphere). George Bush was most likely motivated by a combina­tion of all three considerations. Does it really matter which fac­tor was most important? 
I do not nwan to imply that 
we should blindly accept and support any and every Ameri­can intervention. We should ask hard questions about each ma­jor foreign policy initiative. Did this particular aetion actually succeed in promoting democ­racy and freedom'? Was it eom­petently carried out? Was there a better alternative? What should our next move be'? Such questions are rightly bt~ing de­bated. for instance, with regard to our policy of sanctions against South Africa and our policy of military eonfrontation in EuropP. 
There are many argunwnts that can be made both for and against any particular Anwri­can intl~rvention. But it is high time that we lay to rest tlw ac­eusations of impure motives for 
Anwrican  intervention  and  
Anwrican  supporl.  for  right  
wing totalitarianism.  

Rick i1cker is a .first year /au• s111dent and is a reyular 1/ir'll'· point columnist. 

, LETTERS 
Icy sidewalks pose a threat to both
B1ble relates to abortion issues of today 

physical well-being and wallet 
/Jear Hditor: Solomon proposed cutting the be killed. I would like to eomnwnt on child in two. From the womens' 
But what would Solomon do Maria Hhomberg's "Abortion, reactions he was able to discern today in our society, where the Dear Hdilor: Univnrsity's insurarw!' company Feminism and the [.pf't" eolumn who was the true mother; there inherent nature of mother­I read with inten~st Hegis would arknowiPdgP any liability 
in Tlw Obserwr's March 1 is­could lw no doubt about it. For hood-that of love and protnc­Coccia's eolumn about "ND's on tlwir part nor would tlwy sun. She rightly points out that the one woman, cutting the tion-has been skewPd and dis­Slip-up on len Hemoval" dated pay any part of' tlw $1,000 tlw justice whil'h pro-r.hoire child in half seemed the fair, torwd beyond measure, so that Feb: 2:{. A year ago last worth of PXJ>ensns. This ll'lter fr•minists daim to light for is and "just" thing to do. The dismembering (or poisoning) December rny daughter was is just a rPmindnr to "Watch hardly justicP at all. second woman cried out in hor­and killing an unborn child is singing "All I Want For Your Sll~p" or it could bl' 
It is inten~sting to considl'r ror and begged that the child regarded by somf) as a "just" Christmas Are My Two Front physieally and financially the famous ease put before be giwn to the first, though of and "loving" thing for the natu­Teeth" because, aftPr slipping painful. King Solomon. renowned for course it was in fact her own. ral mother to do? on the ice in front of tlw 
his wisdom and ability to dis­Solomon knew this imnwdiately, library, she lost one front tooth eern the truth. Fared with two for the real mother would Mary Lee Freeman and on1)-half of the otlwr front Michelle Dega women, each of whom elaimed rather see her child go to an­noise. Idaho
Walsh llall tooth. a rwwborn baby as her own, other woman than allow it to March 1. 1990 Neither the University nor the Feb. 2R, 1990 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'love is like a mirror. When you love another you become his mirror and he becomes yours, and reflecting each other's love you see infinity.' 
Leo Buscalglia 
-




Accent 
Wednesday, .March 7, 1990 page 11 
MORE THAN QUARTER BEERS 
Inexpensive and inviting entrees provide outlet from dining hall disasters 
CINDY PETRITES 
accent writer 
Better known for their $.25 beers and poor ventilation, Club 23 also offers afta. shawarina, and the ever-popular fallafil sandwich. For those of you unacquainted with Middle Eastern cuisine. Club 23 is a great place to try these and many other exotic dishes. For the adventurous and hamburger-lover alike, Club 23 eaters to a wide range of tastes with dishes guaranteed to phmse almost any palate. For the unacquainted, not to fear, the nwnu is in English and Mo is mom than happy to help you with suggestions. The reason­abiP prices and small portions allow diners to sample a variety 



NAME: CLUB 23 

ADRESS: 744N. NO AVE. 

TYPE OF FOOD: 

MIDDLE EASTERN CUISINE 
PRICE RANGEc $5h$10 
DRESS: CASUAL 



RESERVATION$: NOT 
o 
menu ngs, so several dishes and share. 

One possible appetizer is the salad-like tabbulee($2.25), a dish of cracked wheat mixed with chopped parsley, tomato, lemon, and olive oil served on a bed of lettuce. The tangy, mildly spiced appetizer is great on pita bn~ad or with a fork. 
One particularly satisfying en­tree choice indudes the Fallafil sandwich($2. 95), a sort of vege­tarian burger (not to be con­fused with the meatless cheese­burger soon to grace the dining hall menus this month). The fallafil is a deep fried patty of ground chickpeas, beans, and spices. 
Also recommended is the· Shawarma($6.00), a dish of marinated layers of beef and lamb cooked and served with onions, peppers, and tomatoes. This favorite dish is also avail­able as a sandwich. All meats are accompanied by baskets of pita bread. 
Some other appetizing Mediterranean dishes include the Hoummos($2.50), a dip of chickpeas, spices and sesame sauce, and the Cabbage Rolls($4.50), lightly spiced meat and rice filled cabbage cooked in tomato sauce. For the truly daring, Club 23 offers an intriguing sounding dish: the Raw Kibbee($5.95) which consists of finely ground beef mixed with cracked wheat and spices. This is definitely not dining hall fare. 
However, if your tastes run more in the direction of tradi­tional fanfare, Club 23 offers sandwiches such as the ribeye sandwich($4.95), hamburger deluxe($2.95). Several dinner items on the menu include the 21 Shrimp($4.25), and roast($3.50 for a half of a chicken). 
For dessert, Club 23 offers Baklava($1.50), a delicious pastry made of layers of parchment-thin puff pastry covered with honey. Club 23 serves meals from 5-11 p.m. 
John Blasi also contributed to this article. 
'Point of View' shows a new dimension of Spyro Gyra's contribution to modern music 

JOHN AUSTIN 
accent writer 
What do you gnt wlwn you rombirw CTPativitv. n•sourrP­I'ulrH•ss. and an irltPrPsting va­riPty'! :\lot tlw dining hall l'ood ... sorry. No. Spyro (;yra's nPW album is rlosl'l' to what I had in mind. By mixing funk, swing. rork. tlw rail and n•­sponse associatPd with blues. and uplifting nwlodic lirws. Spyro (;yra's "Point of Vil'w" is an nrwrgPtir. purPiy instrunwn­tal rontrihution to tlw mod!'rn musir srPnP. 
"ModPrn musir" is pPrhaps a rategoriral tPrm that evok!'s thoughts of sonwthing quitP esotPrir. Spyro Gyra's new sound. howPwr. is anything but esoteric. Tlwir pnwious albums bning inrludPd in fields such as hop, rww age. and twen 70s WPatlwr Hnport-PsquP roek­jazz-fusion. the band now SIHHns to bt~ a constantly evolv­ing entity. "Point of Vinw" has a bright ynt soft sound associated with modern production, though their sound remains dif­ficult to dassify. It is simply happy music with cheerful melodins that make listening a pleasure. 
There docs senrn to bn a cer­tain formula used in writing these tunes: the statement and rncurrence of a theme, bol­stPrPd by ostinato-likP solo sec­tions. Sun~. it is a common fu­sion-type format, but it some­how rPmains efTPctiw -espe­cially effertivn. that is, in draw­ing an Pmotional response in thP listnrwr. 
Tlw most impn~ssiw thing about this album is its ability to crnatP moods. Each song truly has its own mannerisms and dPnwanor. By listPning to each song with tlw song titiP in mind. cmn can arhievc~ knowiPdgP about what mood thP musirians arc~ trying to <TPatn and how thPy tlwmsnlves eoncpivP of the moods. For instance "Swamp Thing". a. tith~ which. to me, brings to mind such hard-edge sounds as ean be heard on any metal or hardeore album, is expressed. while maintaining the characteristic 'soft' sound of the album. Spyro Gyra is able to do this through tlwir use of motion and dissonances in the rhythmic and melodic structures. respectively. In doing so, Spyro Gyra creates the 'swamp thing' right before your ears. The interesting part is that right before "Swamp Thing," the band creates images of a spring stroll near a river, in "Riverwalk." Thus, the diversity that this album boasts is proof of the talent of its creators. 
Highlighted by such others as "No Limits" and "Swing Street" (an appealing contrast between jazz swing and a funk-oriented 

rock line), these alone make this album worthy of even the 
mild 'jazz' lover's collection. Topping it off, is the ballad "The Unknown Soldier", in which Jay Beckenstein's sub­
lime lyricism brings to mind old Jaco Pastorius/Weather Report 
solos from cuts like "I lavona" 
and ";\Remark You Made." 
"Point of View", within its class 
of music, whether one calls it jazz-rock, fusion. or new age, is clearly yet another quality work 
from S 

-
Sports Wednesday 
page 12 March 7, 1990 
NBA STANDINGS  
EASTERN CONFERENCE  
Atlantic Division  
w  L  Pet  GB  Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
New York  37  21  .638  Lost 1  23-5  14-16  22-11  
Philadelphia  37  22  .627  1/2  Wont  23-4  14-18  28-11  
Boston  34  23  .596  21/2  Lost 1  19-9  15-14  18-13  
Washington  23  37  .383  15  Lost 1  15-14  8-23  14-22  
New Jersey  15  43  .259  22  Won2  11-17  4-26  11-22  
Miami  13  47  .217  25  Won 1  8-23  5-24  7-32  
Central Division  
Detroit  45  15  .750  WonG  28-3  17-12  30-9  
Chicago  37  20  .649 61/2  Won8  23-2  14-18  20-12  
Milwaukee  32  26  .552  12  Lost 3  20-9  12-17  17-17  
Indiana  31  29  .517  14  Won 1  21-9  10-20  19-15  
Allanta  28  31  .475  16 1/2  Lost2  19-10  9-21  19-20  
Cleveland  25  32  .439  181/2  Lost4  17-12  8-20  16-18  
Orlando  16  43  .271  28 1/2  Lost 3  12-18  4-25  10-28  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
Midwest Division  
w  L  Pet  GB  Streak  Home  Away  Conf  
Utah  42  17  .712  Won 1  28-3  14-14  27-8  
San Antonio  38  20  .655  3 1/2  Lost2  24-5  14-15  26-11  
Dallas  32  26  .5~2  91/2  Lost 1  21-8  11-18  20-20  
Denver  31  26  .544  10  Won2  22-8  9-18  17-18  
Houston  27  31  .466  141/2  Won 3  21-7  6-24  17-20  
Minnesota  15  42  .263  26  Lost2  13-17  2-25  7-27  
Charlotte  10  46  .179  30 1/2  Lost 2  9-21  1-25  7-29  
Pacfflc Dlvislon  
LA Lakers  43  13  .768  Won3  26-4  17-9  25-8  
Portland  40  18  .690  4  Won2  26-4  14-14  27-10  
Phoenix  38  19  .667  5 112  Won2  25-5  13-14  26-12  
'  Seattle  29  28  .509  141/2  Lost I  20-8  9-20  15-18  
Golden State  26  32  .448  18  Won 1  21-8  5-24  17-20  
L.A. Clippers  23  35  .397  21  Lost I  15-12  8-23  12-24  
Sacramento  17  42  .288  27 1/2  Lost2  12-17  5-25  10-28  
Monday's Games  
New Jersey 128. Sacramento 111  Wednesday s uames  
Philadelphia 128. Los Angeles Clippers 105 Portland at Boston. 7:30 p.m.  
TOP 25 POLL 


Miami 105. Utah 104 Houslon 109. San Antonio 105 Golden State 138. Charlotte 117 Tuesday's Games Late Games Not Included Portland 112. New York 100 Utah 111. Orlando 101 Phoenix 113. Atlanta 111 Detroit 101 . Sacramento 91 Indiana 113, Washington 98 Chicago at Milwaukee, (n) Los Angeles Lakers at Houston. (n) Charlotte at Denver. (n) 
SCOREBOARD 
Results from Feb. 28-March 7 
Women's basketball (21-6) Notre Dame 76, Dayton 4 7 Notre Dame 86, Detroit 72 
Men's fencing (24-1) Notre Dame won the Great Lakes Fencing Championships for the seventh consecutive time, scoring 112 points. James Taliaferro led the way, placing first with a 13-1 record. 
Women's fencing (22-1) Notre Dame grabbed its second straight Great Lakes Fencing Championship by squeaking past Wayne State 49-46. Anne Barreda's second-place finish with a 13-2 paced the Irish. 
LaCrosse (1-0) Notre Dame 19, Canisius 7 Mike Quigley tied two Irish records by netting six goals 
Men's swimming Notre Dame finished third in the Eastern Intercollegiate Swimming Championships with 527 points behind Southern Illinois and West Virginia. 200-yard backstroke--First place, John Godfrey (1 :53.32); second place, Jim Byrne (1 :54.93); third place, Tom Whowell ( 1 :55.08) 200-yard breaststroke-First place, Colin Cooley (2:06.05); third place, Ed Broderick (2:06.82); seventh place, Tom Penn (2:08.11) One-meter diving-First place. Ed Veome (451.75 pts.) 200-yard butterfly-Eighth place, Brian Rini (1 :57.15) 200-yard individual medley­Second place (1 :52.06); fifth place, Penn (1 :54.16); sixth place, Byrne (1 :54.92); seventh place, Cooley (1 :54.96) 400-yard medley relay-Whowell, Cooley, Broderick and Jim Birmingham-Second Place, (3:27.44) 
Softball (0-2) Indiana 7-4, Notre Dame 3-0 Wrestling (7-8) Notre Dame 20, Illinois 12 
Men's basketball (16-11) Dayton 97, Notre Dame 79 Notre Dame 98, Missouri 67 Notre Dame 80, Kentucky 67 
Men's track Notre Dame finished ninth at the IC4As 
Los Angeles Clippers at New Jersey. 7:30 p.m New York at Philadelphia. 7:30 p.m. Phoenix at Washmgton. 7:30p.m. Orlando at Miami, 7:30 p.m. Denver at Minnesota. 8 p.m. Los Anqeles Lakers at Dallas. 8:30 p.m. 
Thursday's Games Los Angeles Clippers at Minnesota. 8 p.m. Utah at Chicago, 8:30p.m. Seattle at Houston. 8:30p.m. Cleveland at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Charlotte at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 

Men's tennis (14-2) Notre Dame finished third in the HEB Collegiate Championships: Notre Dame 5, Oklahoma 1 Notre Dame 6, No. 22 Duke 3 Notre Dame 5, No. 8 Texas Christian 4 No. 18 Pepperdine 5, Notre Dame 
4 
Baseball (4-3) No.5 Texas 5, Notre Dame 3 Notre Dame 3-5, St. Mary's 2-1 Notre Dame 5, Trinity 4 

Hockey (18-15) Results from the Alabama Faceoff Tournament: Alabama-Huntsville 9, Notre Dame 
2 

Alaska-Anchorage 9, Notre Dame 
6 

BASKETBALL BOX SCORES 
Jazz 111, Magic 101 UTAH (111) 

Bailey 1 0-15 0-0 20, Malone 10­24 11-15 31, Eaton 0-2 1-2 1 , Hansen 1-4 1-2 3, Stockton 7-12 2-2 17, Rudd 2-2 0-0 4, Edwards 4­6 2-2 10, M.Brown 5-11 2-4 12, Griffith 2-8 3-4 7, Lackner 2-3 0-0 4, R.Brown 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 44-88 22-31 111. ORLANDO (101) 
Catledge 8-23 3-5 19, Reynolds 6-11 6-8 18, Acres 0-3 0-0 0, Theus 8-19 6-7 22, Vincent 6-8 0-0 12, Ansley 1-2 5-5 7, Anderson 1­4 1-2 3, Green 3-6 3-7 9, Wiley 4­11 2-4 11.Totals 37-87 26-38 101. Utah 23 34 20 34-111 Orlando 33 19 30 19--101 
3-Point goals-Utah 1-2 (Stockton 0-1, Griffith 0-1 ), Orlando 1-5 (Theus 0-1, Wiley 0­4). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Utah 54 (M.Brown 11), Orlando 51 (Catledge 12). Assists-Utah 23 (Stockton 12), Orlando 21 (Theus 5). Total fouls-Utah 28, Orlando 19. 
Bulls 114, Bucks 1 05 CHICAGO (114) 

Grant 8-13 5-7 21, Pippen 8-18 2-4 18, Perdue 3-4 2-2 8, Jordan 14-26 5-6 35, Paxson 3-5 1-1 7, King 6-13 4-6 16, Nealy 1-1 2-2 4, Hodges 1-1 0-0 3, Armstrong 1-2 0-0 2, Sanders 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 45-83 21-28 114. 
SPORTS LIST 


SPORTS CALENDAR Home games in all CAPS Friday Women's basketball at Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships Notre Dame (1st seed) vs. Dayton (4th seed), 3:30p.m. Saturday Fencing at Midwest Regional of NCAAs Women's basketball at MCC Championships-the winner of Friday's game will face the winner of the Butler-Marquette matchup Wrestling at NCAA Western Regionals Men's basketball at DePaul, 1:30 CST, (NBC) 
Sunday  
Women's  tennis  at  UC  Santa  
Barbara  
Tuesday  

Women's tennis at UCLA 
March 16 Women's tennis at Pepperdine Men's tennis at Texas Invitational Baseball at College Baseball Classic in Seattle, Wash. 
March 17 Women's tennis at Washinqton 
AP Men's Top 25 First Place Votes in Parentheses 
Team  W-L  Pis  Plls  
1. Oklahoma(47)  23-4  1555  5  
2. Kansas (9)  28-3  1473  1  
3. UNLV (3)  26-5  1363  2  
4. Syracuse  22-5  1297  10  
5. Georgetown( I)  22-5  1224  7  
6. Missouri  26-4  1209  3  
7. Michigan St.(2)  24-5  1156  14  
8. Connecticut  25-5  1143  4  
9. Arkansas  23-4  1032  12  
10. Purdue  21-6  1018  9  
11. LaSa//e(l)  28-1  929  13  
12. Duke  23-7  898  5  
13. Michigan  20-7  856  8  
14. Georgia Tech  21-6  823  11  
15. Arizona  21-6  566  23  
16. LSU  22-7  528  15  
17. Clemson  23-6  494  20  
18. Louisville  23-7  464  21  
19. Minnesota  20-7  437  17  
20. !Illinois  20-7  389  18  
21. Loyola Mnt.  23-5  378  22  
22. Oregon St.  22-5  368  16  
23. N. Mexico St.  25-3  238  24  
24. Xavier, OH  24-3  199  19  
25. Georgia  20-7  188  25  
Others receiving votes: Houston 56, No.  

Carolina 39, E. Tennessee St. 34, St. John's 24, Texas 16, Princeton 11, Colorado St. 8, UC Santa Barb. 8, Notre Dame 7, So. !Illinois 7, Alabama 5, Ball St. 5, Hawaii 5, Idaho 5, Ohio St. 5, SW Missouri St. 4, Brigham Young 3, N. Carolina St. 2, Tennessee 2, Dayton 1, Louisiana Tech 1, Penn St. 1, Robt. Morris 1 . 
MILWAUKEE (105) 
Anderson 1-4 2-2 4, Grayer 6-9 5-6 17, Sikma 2-7 1-1 5, Humphries 7-13 5-6 19, Robertson 14-18 4-4 33, Brown 0-0 0-0 0, Lohaus 2-4 1-2 5, Pierce 7-17 4-4 19, Roberts 0-3 0-0 0, Kornet 1-3 0-0 3.Totals 40-78 22-25 105. Chicago 33 27 27 27-114 Milwaukee 30 29 22 24-1 05 
3-Point goals-Chicago 3-7 (Jordan 2-4, Hodges 1-1, Pippen 0-2), Milwaukee 3-10 (Robertson 1-1, Kornet 1-2, Pierce 1-3, Sikma 0-2, Lohaus 0-2). Fouled out­None. Rebounds-Chicago 50 (Pippen 12), Milwaukee 36 (Anderson 8). Assists-Chicago 21 (Jordan 6), Milwaukee 27 (Humphries 8). 
Trailblazers 112, Knicks 1 00 PORTLAND (112) 
Kersey 9-14 1-1 19, Williams 9­14 3-6 21, Duckworth 13-20 2-6 28, Drexler 1-1 0 1-2 3, Porter 6-12 2-2 16, Young 0-1 3-3 3, Cooper 2­4 0-0 4, Petrovic 5-9 2-3 13, Robinson 2-7 1-3 5. Totals 47-91 15-26 112. 
NEW YORK (100) 
Newman 5-11 5-5 16, Oakley 6-9 1-2 13, Ewing 17-28 6-7 40, Jackson 6-1 0 1-2 13, Tucker 2-9 0-0 5, G. Wilkins 3-11 3-4 9, Cheeks 1-1 2-2 4, E.Wilkins 0-5 0­0 0, Gray 0-0 0-0 O.Totals 40-84 18-22 100. 

WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Division  
w  L  T  Pis  GF  GA  Home  Away  Div  
NY Rangers  31  26  11  73  226  221  18·9-8  13-17-3  13·12-4  
Pittsburgh  31  31  5  67  280  304  21-13-1  10-18A  18·13-2  
New Jersey  28 31  8  64  239  253  17-14-3  11-17-5  14-11-5  
NY Islanders  28 32  8  64  242  247  13-15-6  15-17-2  9-14-6  
Washinglon  29 34  5  63  253  245  15-15-3  14-19-2  14·15-0  
Philadelphia  26 33  9  61  247  244  14-16-2  12-17-7  10-13-3  
Adams Division  
x-Boston  42 22  5  89  247  191  21-10-2  21-12-3  15-9-3  
x-Buffalo  37 24  8  82  233  212  23-8-2  14-16-6  17-9-3  
x-Montreal  35 26  7  77  244  202  24-8-3  11-18-4  15-11-1  
x-Hartford  32  28  7  71  234  230  14-15-4  18-13-3  11-12-2  
Quebec  11  48  7  29  201  332  7-20-6  4-28-1  3-20-3  
CAMPBELL  CONFERENCE  
Nonis Division  
W  L  T  Pis  GF  GA  Home  Away  Div  
St. Louis  34 26  8  76  254  224  19-11-4  15-15·4  13-13-1  
Chicago  35 28  4  74  268  251  21-12-1  14-16·3  10-11-1  
Toronto  33 31  3  69  290  300  22-9-2  11-22-1  15-11-1  
Detroit  25 33  10  60  253  277  18-12-5  7-21-5  11-13-2  
Minnesota  28 36  3  59  232  251  23-10-1  5-26-2  12-13-1  
Smythe Division  
x-Calgary  33 21  13  79  286  220  21-7-5  12-14-8  12-12-3  
x-Edmonton  33 23  12  78  272  239  21-9-5  12-14-7  16-8-4  
Winnipeg  32 27  8  72  251  243  19-10-5  13-17-3  14-8-2  
Los Angeles  28 33  6  62  282  284  18-14-2  10-19-4  11-12-5  
Vancouver  20 38  11  51  207  271  11-14-9  9-24-2  4-17-6  
x-clinched playoff berth  Wednesday's Games  
Monday's Games  Quebec at Winnipeg, 8:30 p.m.  
New York Rangers 3, Detroit 2  Chicago at Minnesota. 8:35 p.m.  
Calgary 5, Los Angeles 0  Pittsburgh at Calgary, 9:35 p.m.  

Tuesday's Games Montreal at Los Angeles. 10:35 p.m. Late Game Not Included Thursday's Games 
Boston 2, Philadelphia 1 Hartford 4, New York Islanders 2 Buffalo 1 , Washington 1 , tie New Jersey 2, St. Louis 1 Pittsburgh at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. 
Portland 31 28 24 29-112 
NewYork 35 24 24 17-100 
3-Point goals-Portland 3-8 (Porter 2-4, Petrovic 1-3, Drexler 0-1 ), New York 2-9 (Newman 1-2, Tucker 1-4, G.Wilkins 0-1, Jackson 0-2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Portland 56 (Duckworth 11), New York 4 7 (Oakley 14). Assists-Portland 29 (Drexler 9), New York 27 (Oakley, Ewing 5). Total fouls-Portland 23, New York 24. Technicals­New York delay of game, G.Wilkins, New York coach Jackson, Duckworth. A-18,212. 
Suns 113, Hawks 111 PHOENIX (113) 
Chambers 13-28 4-5 31, Rambis 2-6 2-2 6, West 2-3 4-6 8, Hornacek 5-12 3-4 14, K.Johnson 7-13 10-13 24, Lang 3-3 0-0 6, Majerle 2-3 0-0 4, E.Johnson 8-13 2-2 20, Grant 0-1 0-0 0, K.Battle 0­0 0-0 0. Totals 42-82 25-32 113. ATLANTA (111) 
Wilkins 15-27 11-13 43, Willis 5­10 1-2 11, Malone 7-16 7-7 21, J.Battle 3-8 0-0 6, Webb 3-6 0-0 6, 
Koncak 1-2 2-4 4, Smith 3-8 2-2 8, Levingston 0-2 0-0 0, Long 5-9 2-2 12, Volkov 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 42-88 25-30 111. Phoenix 25 33 29 26-11 3 Atlanta 26 33 23 29-111 
3-Point qoals-Phoenix 4-7 
Buffalo at Boston, 7:35p.m. Toronto at Hartford, 7:35p.m. New York Rangers at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. St. Louis at Detroit, 7:35p.m. New York Islanders al New Jersey, 7:45p.m. 
(E.Johnson 2-3, Chambers 1-2, Hornacek 1-2), Atlanta 2-4 (Wilkins 2-3, Smith 0-1 ). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Phoenix 50 (West 8), Atlanta 48 (Malone 16). Assists-Phoenix 27 (K.Johnson 14), Atlanta 27 (Webb 12). . 
Rockets 112, Lakers 95 LA LAKERS (95) 
Green 1-8 7-8 9, Worthy 8-19 2-3 18, Thompson 2-7 1-2 5, Cooper 2­8 3-4 8, E.Johnson 11-24 4-6 27, Drew 3-6 0-0 7, Woolridge 7-13 3-3 17, Divac 1-2 2-2 4, Vincent 0-1 0­0 0. Totals 35-88 22-28 95. HOUSTON (112) 
B.Johnson 8-15 0-0 16, Thorpe 5-141-211, Olajuwon 7-1513-16 27, Floyd 7-12 2-3 17, Wiggins 7­11 2-2 16, Smith 1-3 0-0 2, Maxwell 3-7 5-6 11, Lloyd 2-3 0-0 4, Woodson 4-7 0-0 8, Caldwell 0-1 0-0 O.Totals 44-88 23-29 112. LA Lakers 24 25 24 22-95 Houston 36 27 20 29-11 2 
3-Point goals-Los Angeles 3-13 (Cooper 1-2, Drew 1-4, E.Johnson 1-5, Green 0-1, Worthy 0-1). Houston 1-6 (Floyd 1-5, Maxwell 0­1 ). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Los Angeles 45 (Worthy 9), Houston 64 (Oiajuwon 14). Assists-Los Angeles 18 (E.Johnson 8), Houston 32 (Floyd 12). Total fouls-Los Angeles 23, Houston 22. A-16,611. 

Wednesday, March 7, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Jordan's 35 points pace Bulls; Rockets, Pistons victorious 
MILWAUKEE (AP)-Michael Jordan scored 35 points, in­cluding six in a closing 10-0 run Tuesday night, as the Chicago Bulls extended their winning streak to nine games by beating the Milwaukee Bucks 114-105. 
The winning streak is the Bulls' longest since 1973-74 and was their 11th victory in the last 12 meetings with Milwaukee. 
Horace Grant added 21 points and Scottie Pippen 18 for Chicago, which started its winning spurt with 2:41 re­maining. 
Alvin Bobertson led Milwaukee with 33 points and Jay Humphries and Bicky Pierce added 19 each. 
The Bucks rallied from 14 points down and took a 105­104 lead with 3:15 to go on a 3­pointer from Robertson and jumper from Humphries. 
Rockets 112,
Lakers 95 
HOUSTON (AP) -Akeem Olajuwon had 27 points, 14 re­bounds and eight blocked shots. and Buck Johnson scored 10 points in the first quarter when Houston took control of the game. 
Sleepy Floyd had 1 7 points and 12 assists for the Rockets, who outrebounded the Lakers 56-37 en route to their fourth consecutive victory. 

Magic Johnson led the Lakers with 27 points, while James Worthy scored 18 and Orlando Woolridge 17. 
Leading 10-9, Houston scored 14 straight points, six by Johnson, to lead 24-9 with 5:46 left in the first quarter. The Lakers were never closer than eight points again. 
Pistons 101, Kings 91 
AUBUBN HILLS, Mich. (AP) 
Joe Dumars and Bill Laimbeer scored 25 points apiece to lead the Detroit Pistons to their 19th victory in 20 games, 101-91 Tuesday night over the Sacramento Kings. 
The Pistons, 28-3 at home, have a six-game wi_nning streak. The defending NBA champions, who shut down Sacramento 27-14 in the fourth period, are playing their best ever. Detroit won 16 of 17 games last March. 
Detroit struggled in the third quarter as Wayman Tisdale scored 18 points, including all six during 6-0 spurt that gave Sacramento its biggest lead of the quarter, 75-70 at 1:33. The Kings led 77-7 4 after three pe­riods. 
Blazers 112, Knicks 100 NEW YORK (AP) -Kevin Duckworth scored eight of his season-high 28 points during a 
decisive f3-0 run that carried the Portland Trail Blazers to a 112-100 victory over the New York Knicks on Tuesday night. 
The Trail Blazers won their 40th game of the season, one more than all of last season, despite a season-low three points from Clyde Drexler. The All-Star guard, averaging 23.2 points and with a previous sea­son-low of 14, was 1-for-10 from the field. 
But Portland got strong games from its front line of Duckworth, Buck Williams and Jerome Kersey to hand the Knicks their third loss in four home games after a 22-2 start at Madison Square Garden. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classilieds is 3 p.m. All classilieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds • 

Dear WhisperdoVspot, EX NO STAFFER AND WIFE SUBLET***SUBLET***SUBLET Top Ten Reasons N.D. should DESIRE TO RENT FURNISHED ??Staying lor the summer?? 
FOR RENT 

NOTICES 
go to tourney. I just wanted to let you 
APARTMENT FOR SUMMER, Sublet a Turtle Creek apartment PREFERABLE IN MISHAWAKA. for the summer of 
There's only ONE: know that every day you prove TYPING AVAILABLE 
2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM 

Digger Phelphs to me why I think you areNON-SMOKERS, REFERENCES. '90!! Living on campus lor the 
APTS. AVALIABLE 
awesome. Thanks for everything: 287-4082 WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW DR., summer is the "blaaas," not to 

LESS THAN 1 MILE 

L lor being the best, 
MULBERRY, FLA. 33860, OR mention expensive! Help us and EXPERT TYPING 
Have a great break in Florida. lor caring, for talking, and $3/PG 
FROM NOTRE DAME 

PHONE (813) 425-4404. we'll help you!! Call Kelly at 4985 or Don't do anything I wouldn't do, especially lor taking a chanceJulie at 287-9378* 
FEATURES INCLUDE: 

J on me. And if you keep taking 291-3829 ROOMMATE" ROOMMATE chances I promise you will never
Security systems, 
Female roommate needed to FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT ATIENTION TOASTMASTERS! 

THE WORLD TOUR be disappointed! You are the end share a Turtle Creek apartment lor SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
basements, rear yards,

Meeting Tonight 
continues Thursday at to which all my caring, love and 7:30220 HH 90-91 school year!! Call Kelly@ 
washer & dryer, new 

The Grace Coffee House. emotions are4985 or Julie@ 287-9378 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY IRISH MUSIC from 9 till12 directed. You have my heart and 
construction, good WORD PROCESSING 
219-291-7153 
soul-Take advantage of them ...
•• ROOMMATES NEEDED •• 
neighborhood,dishwasher

272-1837 TEPHANIE SNYDER, Female roommates needed lor a FURNISHED 6-BDRM., 2-BATH 
CALL 232 -8256 

11ey baby!! Thank you muchly Love,sale, close-to-campus house (1/4 
SECURE HOME. 1021 DEMAUDE.
MAIL BOXES ETC. mile from campus), with cheap CALL 234-6688 OR 234-5041. lor the letter' I miss you too! P---kin Shipping, Packaging. Copies. rent($150/mo) and fun The social life is AWESOME! P.S.
BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION. 
Loving couple, both college •

Resumes from $15.00. I will write soon and tell you My point is dreams can fit into 
roommates!! For summer of '90 or teachers, unable to have children. 

277-MAIL 90-91 school year!! Call Julie at HOUSE FOR RENT all about it. The Observer is reality!
Husband has adopted sisters. We

287-9378!! The Observer: nothing too
WALKING DISTANCE FROM 
are responsible, caring people NO 232-3616
INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund exciting, except lor the new 
ready to share our love with a

in 3 Days to 2 Weeks! Accent Queen of course! I am The GAS FACE is awarded to 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: MAIL BOXES ETC. 277·6245 sure you are having a blast the new senior class officers 
much wanted baby. Medical Outstanding brother/sister sports HOUSE FOR 1990-91 SCHOOL expenses paid. Confidential and and their cut-throat political 

camps -22 mile lake near "On over there--drink a couple
YEAR. FURNISHED, SECURE legal. Please call collect anytime 
For a hot tip on where lor me! Love, Colleen "machine."
Golden Pond" site seek staff. 

HOME, 5 BDRM, WiD, CLOSE TO except Tues/Thurs. 317-743-4512.
to lind a good time Love,
Interviews avail. Transp. paid. Girls NO. COMPETITIVE RENT. 1-264­

Call 64 7-0900 ext 17 40 TheA Guys
-215-884-3326; boys-914-698­6010. 

BRIAN GERAUGHTY--!! SPECIAL NOTICE!! 
St. Mary's Campus Events P.S. We'd love to be proven 
1833. Hotline wrong. Make next year better than 
The past FIVE MONTHS have UPS SERVICE DAILY STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? 
been stellar! You're the best M-F 12-5 this one! 
ARTIST TO ILLUSTRATE MAPS 2 bedroom furnished apt. 

boyfriend in the whole wide world! THE COUNTRY HARVESTER FOR BOOK. CALL JOHN M-F available for subleasing And it only gets better in the LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE 
LOST/FOUND 
1 OAM-4PM 255-8700 
Call Now!!! 284-4070 

BAHAMAS! Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. I (heart) you, claws SEND HOME YOUR CLOTHING To a bunch of bizarre but special 
SUMMER JOBS friends:Dark blue. with red stripes. Any FOR SPRING BREAK -DON'T

ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 

FOR SALE 
'Ladies ·of SMC. CARRY IT WITH YOU!! 
info call Tom at 234-9728. 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 1.Don't bend over( squeal, REWARD Did our reply stump you. ?Have 

ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 

squeal)NEAR LAKE PLACID you nothing else to say.? We Kear-
LOST: Gold ring with Ruby. ATIENTION FEMALE assume you realized we are not U R A GR8 sis-Thanx 4 2.Bowling Bitch 
CALL 1-800-343-8373 

Great sentimental Value. TRAVELERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! quite as bad as you first thought. everythng-esp the car! 3.Hi Ho. off to (sensual) work we 
INTERVIEWING IN LAFORTUNE goPlease. return to Nick . x5208 FOR SALE: Spring Break I cant wait till the BAHAMAS! 

STUDENT CENTER 

or 277-7236. Reward. plane ticket to Ft.Lauderdale Sincerely, LOVE YOU­4.Do you have the drugs? 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28,9 AM­

BEST OFFER call Molly 2nd floor Grace AMY 5.Just inject and press play 4PM. 
@284-5410 6.Was it as good for you? 
FOUND: piece of jewelry in 7.So!
Holiday Inn on Rt. 31 during Position Available •••CHICAGO to MIAMI•••
CAMPUS PAINTERS NOW 

JPW. call John X1583 to Rnd. trip plane tix lor sale 8.My hom"' the dumpster 
HIRING NOVICE AND 

identify I have 1 ticket from O'Hare to CATHOLIC SCHOOL PRINCIPAL $200 9.We ain't leavin' until we're 
EXPERIENCED PAINTERS FOR 

heavin' SPRING AND SUMMER Tampa for $238. It leaves on 3/10 Grades K-6 (118 students) LEAVE 3/10 RETURN 3/17 
and returns 3/17. II interested call CALL 284-5462 or 5456 1O.lt went limp!
LOST! LOST' LOSTI LOST' LOST! 
HOUSEPAINTING IN CHICAGO 

A gold. Gruen watch x3772. Applications available. -Hang loose (mentally, that is) & 
NORTH SUBURBS. CALL TO have an abnormal vacatior:. 

with a smooth brown band Write: Saint Patrick Parish 
ARRANGE AN INTERVIEW 

in between Knott and St. Ed's. Pioneer CD player w/ remote. Office HEY SOPHOMORES! 
7081475-3439. MAILING 

Call Brad at x1701. Good condition. $75/BO-x1072 320 West Broadway IRISH TAKE SOHO 
ADDRESS IS: 2901 CENTRAL Patrick Kokomo, IN 46901 March 7 Gretchen: "At Last!" 

STREET-EVANSTON, IL 60201. 
7:30-8:30 

Jeff: "At Last!" LOST...diamond and sapphire ring. For Sale: 1980 CAMARO (All correspondence will be kept Haggar Chameleon Room We all knew it would happen.
CRUISE SHIPS now hiring all 

High sentimental value .. $1200. 232-6085 confidential) ···pLus··· what took you two so long?
positions. Both skilled and 

····reward········· N.D. women: Please join us lor 
unskilled. For information Call 

Call Debbie #2935. 4SALE Laurie, Happy 19th Birthday!! dinner at 5:00, studying at the SMC From,
(615) 779-5507 Ext. R-200. 

1 way return plane I Love you!! Your fiance. Bill 'brare and Soho Study Break. See The Stumbling Crew LOST: Favorite pair of Ray Bans in ticket from Orlando 3/18. you then! P.S. Everyone have a great
ATIENTION: EASY WORK 

tan case. If found. please return. Call271-8089. break, we'll have a 
EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble 

Matt 271-9576 Hey, you brown-eyed girl, Molly 0. reunion soon! 
products at home. Details. ( 1) 602­···RIDERS!!! ... Happy Birthday!!!!! 

838-8885 Ext. W-6262. 
TICKETS 

I need riders to FLA. About time you're 18! Lv. 3-9, Ret. 3-17. Daytona Beach, here we come!
WANTED 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY 

For Sale: Round Trip ticket form Please call Kevin @1386 WATCHING TV! $32,000/YEAR Attention: To the strikingly 
Chicago to San Antonio-Leaving To: "THE GANG". George Bailey & OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 INCOME POTENTIAL. DETAILS. beautiful blonde at the Soph. 
3/9 P M.-Return 3/18 To the girl in the black coat and M.J. THANKS FOR THE BEST B­
mo.Summer.Yr. round.AII (1) 602-838-8885 EXT. TV-6262. Formal last Fri. nite in the
Cost: $100. Call Rob Re 1747. black and white scarf, who waits at DAY EVER! Love-Me P.S. 360 
Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write dark dress with the bow on
the corner door of north dining hall shopping days! 
IJC. PO Bx 52-IN04. Corona Del WANTED: the back -there's a certain
Hey Seniors. every MWF at 11 :00, you're Mar. CA 92625. lead singer who would like to 
Tell your parents to order all four breathtaking. Can we go out ValentinesPOINT/OFF GUARD WANTED GRADUATION TICKETS. know your name. Why don't 
sometime? ATIENTION-HIRING! FOR HIGH-CALIBER Because I need 4 extra tickets and you give him a call? x4264 Government jobs-your area. BOOKSTORE TEAM. LAST YEAR 
will pay CASH lor any seat $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-838-3 IN FINAL 64 AND 1 IN FINAL 32. 
anywhere. So after break call me ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE m8885. Ext. R.6262 IF YOU FEEL READY, CALL at 256-9374 and get your mula. 
PRAYER AND JOYOUS 

save ferris GUESS WHAT! I'M STILL MIKE OR STEVE AT X1650 
Wed. March 7 9:00pm COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A POETRY READING 
CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: DESPERATE!_',' SEEKING A 
PERSONALS 
COFFEEHOUSE POOR CLARES, Need Ride to or near PittsburghGOOD PIANO. IF YOU HAVE 
~--------------~ 
with special guest readers: 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W., 
SUIIIIER JOBS2/8-9 $$ JoAnne 1270

ONE, PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT Weaver Fever begins March 18! Vague Atmosphere KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
0RS-Boys~. W. Mass.

239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM. 
followed by an open mic. 

I Girll ~. MMieFOR RENT POETRY READING RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has 
Top SUy. RrniBdll..eundry. TravelRIDE NEEDED TO D.C. AREA at Grace Hall's Coffeehouse 

Alowllnce.

rooms for Graduation weekend. 
FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL HELP STUDENTS... 
~ kMI kids and have sldl in one o1

KNUTE ROCKNE'S HOUSE Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 
DRIVE & $$. PLEASE CALL 
lhe ~activities:

Summer Rental Why we love BRIAN B: deposit per room. Send letter to
CHRIS AT X4078 
An:hafy, Ails & Crafts. a.setlll, $600 pimth 2. He spills on his tie. 46514 or Call219-262-1581. 
4/5 bdrm, 2bth,furnished JUST DOlT!!!!! 1. He broke the beer boot! 3011 Belvedere Rd .. Elkhart, IN 
llasl<etl*l, Blc:yding. W~g,

Pardon me; I am seeking a goodly 
Take advantage of student 3. His kleptomaniac 
Dance, Drwna, Drums, Fenc*lg, Golf,
913 Lelandnumber of those darling little tank 

discounts on IBM PS/2's. tendencies with concert 
. Gymnastics, Hoc:loey, ~ 

X4420 SPRING BREAK
tops that read, "Drink like a 
Klnle. LM:rosae. Nalunt, .......
tickets. 
f'llc*lgraph)o, Piano, Radio, Rocketry,

champion." Do call X3574. Visit the ND Computer Store lor 4. He hyperventilates at golf 
2 STUDENT HOUSES. 6-7 more details. courses. DAYTONA 
Ropes. s.ilxadng, Saiing. ~ 
BDRMS. EACH. CALL CHUCK Need ride home or close to home-­Socx:er, Tannis, Track,-WSI, W818nki,GLORE 232-1776. 5. The Butterfly Chair 

Atlanta; Thomasville,Ga.; or $139 rm. only; $229 w. trans 
Weigl*. Wood Men call or wrile:
6. His concise, inspiring Tallahassee, Fla. 

c..., Wln8dU, 5 Gleft .....

LARGE FOUR BEDROOM HOME papers. 
: .. .-.oneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 

(Souihern GA) Can leave after High quality accommadations 
COMPLETELY FURNISHED. 7. Denny's and Motel 6. 
381-5~. Women call or wrlle: c...,
2:30 Fri ..return by Sun night. Call AVAILABLE FOR JUNE OR hiag Happy 19th Bri!!! 
Vega. P.O. Box 1n1. DuxllUiy,iM

Shonda X2551 call Todd 1-800-265-1799
Love, Kim and Eve AUGUST. 234-9364. 
02332 1 934«i36. 

--------~~-------~----~ -­
Wednesday, March 7, 19~0~l
page 14 The Observer 
Young softball team starts season with losses to Indiana 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team kicked ofT its 1990 season by dropping both games of a doubleheader this past weekend against Indiana University by scores of 7-3 and 4-0. 
The Irish scared the powerful lloosiers in the first game. They jumped out to a 3-0 lead in tlw first inning as sophomore eo-captain Huth Kmak began a rally with a leadoff double and came around to score the first run of the game. Notre Dame pitcher Missy Linn stymied the Indiana hitters early, carrying a no-hitter into the fourth inning. 
Misfortune then struck the Irish in the form of a line drive which smashed into Linn's pitching hand. Linn suffered a bad bruise but remained in the game. Linn continued to pitch, but the injury affected her pitching. and by the time Staci Alford came in to relieve her, 


Lax 
continued from page 20 
ther t11am was able to gain the 
upper hand decisively, as the 
lead changed hands three times 
over the course of the second 
and third quarters of play. 
The score stood tied at five at 

halftime, but the Irish wasted 
no time in lighitng up the 
scornboard, as Brian Mcllugh 
beat the Hadford kneper on an 
assist from senior midfielder 
Dave Carey, who also scored a 
goal to aid the Irish effort. On 
thP night, Notre Dame outshot 
Hadford 55-36, and Irish goal­
keepPr Chrish Parent recorded 
20 saves. Additionally, Irish at­
tackPr Mike Sullivan. who 
S(:on~d nine goals in Notre 
Danw's season-opener against 
Canisius College, was injured 
early in the third quarter, but 
returrwd to play in the fourth 
quarter, helping the Irish to 
preserve their slender lead. 
Spotty play and inconsistency 

marwd the rest of the contest, 
as Hadford tied, the Irish re­
gained the lead, Hadford tied 
again, with Notre Dame sealing 
the victory with goals at the 
close of the third and fourth 
quarters. 
"We didn't play well at all," 

noted second-year Notre Dame 
head coach Kevin Corrigan. 
'Tm happy to be 2-0, since we 
started out 0-3 last year, but 
I'm still ver~ disappointed. I 
We can't be everywhere, let us know if something newsworthy happens. Call The Observer 
239-5303 
only feel good because we held on to win in the fourth quarter. But that is a step foreward, be­cause we did lose close games like this last year." 
Notre Dame next battles the Wildcats of Villanova on Saturday, March 10. 

Hey Fisher Hall ITS LARRYS BIRTHDAY! phone: 283-2936 HAPPY BIRTHDAY LARRY (LEN) ECKEL 
Love/Happiness Always, Mum, Dad & Family 
the Hoosiers had scored seven 
runs. 
Alford held the Hoosiers scoreless for the rest of the game. 
Freshman Ronnie Alvarez started the second game for Notre Dame, and gave up all four Hoosier runs in five in­nings of duty. Alford relieved once again and pitched two scoreless innings for the Irish. who only managed two hits in the entire game, which provided a moral victory for Notre Dame even though it didn't show up in the win column. 
"We played really well," says junior co-captain Kathy V!~r­netti. "We didn't have any phys­ical errors and we proved something to ourselves, be­cause Indiana is a top-twenty caliber club." 
To say that this year's Notrn Dame squad is young and inexperienced is a gross understatement. Three juniors and four sophomores return from last year's team, which finished its first season of competition with a 31-23 record. The rest of the Irish lineup will consist entirely of freshmen. Notre Dame is coached by Brian Boulac. 
Notre Dame will ask Linn, who finished last season with a 22-15 record, and Alford to handle the majority of the pitching chores this season. 
"Staci is probably the best pitcher we have right now," says Vnrnetti. "But Missy Linn isn't far behind." 
Notre Danw began its s1mson without injun~d junior Harlwl Crossen, who led tlw team in runs-batted-in last year. Crossen should n~turn for Notrn Dame's upcoming Spring Break trip to llouston. 
When Crossen returns to action in center finld, she will most likely be joined in tlw starting outfield by Megan Fay and Michele Miller, and should add some punch to the Irish hitting game. 
Freshman Heather McMurray will also be countnd on for some heavy hitting at the designated hitter position, while sophomore cateh!w Amy Folsom will handle most of the duties behind the plate. The infield will consist of Verrwtti at first base, sophomore Laurie Sornmerlad at second, Kmak at shortstop, and freshman Debbie Boulae at third base. 
"Wn should dominatP the MCC ronfernnen this snason," says VPrnntti. "Our goal this season is to win the MCC Tournanwnt." 
The Irish will n~sumn play this over spring hn~ak wlwn tlwy will trawl to llouston, TX for five doubleheaders. Notre Damn will facP TPmplP UniV<~rsity, Sam Houston StatP, Wnstern Illinois. Pima Community CollegP and Akron in those doubleheaders. 

Gather's team may give up bid in NCAAs 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (API ­Loyola-Marymount, sti!l mourning the death of basket­ball star Hank Gathers, would be the first school in 20 years to decline a bid to play in the NCAA tournament. 
In the aftermath of Gathers' death, which occurred Sunday during a West Coast Conference tournament game against Portland, WCC officials canceled the tournament and declared the Lions champions. The decision gave Loyola­Marymount (13-1 in the confer­ence) one of 30 automatic NCAA berths, which will be formally extended on Sunday. 
But the school has yet to de­cide whether to accept. Coach Paul Westhead said a determi­nation will be made later in the week. 
"There hasn't been anybody turn down a tournament bid since probably the early 1970s," Dave Cawood, assis­tant executive director of the NCAA, said. "I don't know of anytime that someone has turned it down under this situa­tion." 
In 1970, Marquette, coached by AI McGuire and ranked among the nation's top I 0 teams, refused to play in the tournament because the school was placed in the Midwest Hegional in Fort Worth, Texas, instead of the Mideast, which would have kept them doser to home. The Warriors went to the National Invitation Tournament instead and won. 
If Loyola declines an invita­tion, the conference forfeits its automatic berth and the other teams would be considered as at-large candidates, Jim Delany, chairman of the tour-
COMEDY, 

SKITS, MUSIC
1990-91 SUB POSITIONS 
nanwnt selection committee, said. 
Under NCAA rules, a confer­ence can have its regular-sPa­son champion or tournanwnt winner receive its automatic bid. Since the WCC tournanwnt was canceled. thn conferPJH'P could fall back on n~gular-sea­son champion Loyola­Marymount. 
"They are still considering their options as to whnther fur­tlwr rom petition is proper." Delany said. "If they so desirn, tlwy will represent the confPr­ence as an automatic qualifiN." 

for the followin commissions : 
Music Special Events Movies Ideas & Issues Publicity Performing Arts 
Campus Entertainment 
APPLY BY MARCH 9 2nd Floor LaFortune-secretary's desk 
GET INVOLVED!! 
OR ANY OTHER SERIOUS OR OUTRAGEOUS DISPLAY OF TALENTS••• 
CALL RAUL AT 1515 OR LEAVE A MESSAGE AT 1622 
Reflections on four years of not-so-famous ND moments 
Well. this is my last Irish Items column for The Observer, and I don't think I can avoid writing some schmaltz reminiscing about my times covering Notre Dame sports. 
By the same token, I know 


I've read one too many stories Steve Megargee that say something to the ef­fect of "Boy. that Miami game Irish Items 
last year sure was a lot of fun!" So instead of rehashing old memories of things we've already discussed too much (i.e. last year's national title, the 1987 men's basketball upset of North Carolina, etc.), I will try to recall some of the mem­ories I've had that might not have gotten into print. 
I spent the majority of my freshman year covering the baseball team. The Irish have made tremendous strides the last two years under Pat Murphy, but the situation wasn't quite the same in 1987. The Irish finished 15-29 and could not buy a break. During one game, an Irish pitcher who shall remain name­less was trying to give an Indiana batter an inten­tional walk, then accidentally threw a pitch right down the middle of the plate. It was that kind of season. 
The only memorable part of that year came late in the season, during the infamous "Ethel Merman Dav." 
Sports information student assistant Ted Woodward, then the public address announcer at Jake Kline Field, brought in tapes of Ethel Merman songs to play between every inning of an Irish­Xavier game. Then, during the seventh-inning stretch. he performed a flawless imitation of Ethel Merman singing "Take Me Out To The Ballgame." Most of the Notre Dame team ambled out of the dugout onto the playing field to look up at the pressbox and see what the heck was going on. 
At least Woodward remembered the lines to his 
song, which brings us to the day Elvis appeared at 
the Joyce ACC. After arriving at Notre Dame in 
1987, and winning his debut game in an overtime 
thriller, Irish hockey coach Ric Schafer brought in 
Elvis Presley impersonator Dennis Wise to sing the 
national anthem the following evening. The results 
were even more embarrassing than some of the 
King's motion picture roles. 
Wise. performing on a Halloween night. must have 
Syracuse coach denies allegations of recruiting violations stat in book 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (API ­Syracuse University basketball coach Jim Boeheim defended his program Tuesday after a newly released book suggested the Orangemen were guilty of n~cruiting violations. 
Boeheim said there wasn't had a case of stage fright. He began to stumble through the anthem, then suddenly forgot the words. After skipping a few lines, he managed to finish the performance. A certain person in Memphis had to be rolling in his grave, if he wasn't buying a Whopper and fries at Kalamazoo. 
The ubiquitous Woodward, doing PA for hockey that evening, said after the game, "It's Halloween, ladies and gentlemen, so watch out for ghosts, gob­!ins and Elvis impersonators." 
Notre Dame went on to record a 27-4-2 record in Schafer's first season, after having. gone 10-19-1 the previous year. But he was far from the only no­table new coach that headed to Notre Dame in 1987. Muffet McGraw led the women's basketball team to a 20-win season, and Murphy directed the baseball team to its first winning season since 1982. 
During that first year under Murphy, the Irish won two games by scoring nine and 10 runs, respec­tively, in the final inning. But Irish baseball didn't hit prime time until the following season, when Notre Dame reached the NCAA Tournament for the first time since 1970. In order for that to happen, the Irish first had to show they were the kings of late-night baseball. 
Notre Dame hosted the Midwest Collegiate Conference tournament last spring, but the event also earned itself a few nicknames: "The Home of 24-Hour Baseball," "The Tournament That Never Sleeps," "Baseball Around the Clock." 
It all happened because of a foiled comeback at­tempt, typical South Bend weather and a free-think­ing conference official. 
In their second game of the tournament, the Irish faced Detroit, which had given Notre Dame prob­lems all year. Detroit jumped to an early 12-1 lead, but the Irish somehow came back to take a 14-13 lead late in the game. 
Detroit tied the game and had the bases loaded 
and none out in the 1Oth inning. One out later, the Titans had the bases still loaded and a 3-and-0 count at the plate. Somehow, the Irish survived that inning without allowing the winning run, but Detroit won the game in the 1Oth inning. 
Notre Dame beat Saint Louis the following after­noon and was supposed to face Dayton that evening. But a steady downpour hit Coveleski Stadium for almost the entire night, which evidently would force a postponement of the games until the following day. The MCC representative, however, insisted that the two contests scheduled for that ni ht must be played if it was in any way possible. 
The rain finally subsided, and Detroit played 
Evansville well after 10 p.m. That game went into 
extra innings before Detroit won. Notre Dame and 
Dayton finally took the field, and the first pitch was 
thrown at 1:37 a.m. The stadium billed it as a 
night/dawn doubleheader, and anybody who wanted 
to watch a game at this hour was welcome to come 
in for free. 

The game itself wasn't anything that would keep 
most fans awake for too long. Notre Dame led 13-0 
after four innings: and. midway through the contest, 
Murphy was sendmg hts starters back to campus so 
that they could have a few hours of sleep before they 
played their next game about 10 hours later. 
PA announcer Ted Woodward (yup, that's him 
again) gave updates of a Hawaii-San Diego State 
matchup, then gave the final score of that game and 
revealed this was the last baseball game in the free 
world still being played on this day (or the first 
game in the free world being played the next day, 
whichever you choose). 
Irish pitcher Erik Madsen had a perfect game go­
ing until the seventh inning, when Dayton scored all 
its runs in a 20-4 Irish win. If Madsen had been able 
to finish it off, he surely would have gone down in 
history as the only pitcher to have completed a per­
feet game before 6 a.m. 
With Notre Dame ahead 19-1 in the seventh, and 
time rapidly approaching 4 a.m., an umpire called 
Madsen for a balk. In perhaps the most fitting 
statement of the evening, someone in the pressbox 
asked, "Has there ever been a more useless balk call 
in the history of the game?" 
The Irish apparently thrived on the late-night at­
mosphere. After beating Dayton, in a game that fi­
nally ended at 4:21 a.m., Notre Dame came back 10 
hours later to win back-to-hack games with 
Evansville and Detroit to win the MCC championship. 
I imagine I probably will see games between huge 
football rivals or upsets of top-ranked teams again 'in the next several years. But I think I'm going to have to live a long time before I ever again hear someone do Ethel Merman singing "Take Me Out to the Ballgame," or an Elvis impressionist butchering the national anthem. I also don't figure I'll be watching any more live baseball games at 4 a.m. any 
time in the near future. 
Now those events were some true Notre Dame moments. 
"an ounce of truth" in the alle­"street agent" whose job is to gations made by writers sell the Syracuse program to 
Alexander Wolff and Armen Keteyian in their book, "Raw Deal." which the authors say sheds light on illegal recruiting practices in college basketball. 
The book links Syracuse to a 
FRI. MARCH 9TH, 7:30P.M. NOTRE DAME JOYCE ACC 
Prices: $11.50 & 9.00 *ASK ABOUT SPECIAL COURTSIDE SEATS* 
$2.00 DISCOUNT ND/SMC STUDENTS/FACULTY/STAFF 
ON SALE JACC BOX OFRCE (9AM-5PM) 

#\~~~~©rmft~©rtll~ ~~~rtll@ rmrcrc~~ft~rdl ~©rr ~ ~~ij lDrt11~~~rr~~ftW ~rr~~hmrmrt11 Orr~~rtllft~ft~©rtll Ch~~rr~~rr~©rtll 
*applications available from the secretary's office on 2nd floor of LaFortune 
*DEADLINE: March 9,1990 at 4pm 
GOOD LUCK! 

elite New York City players, giving them tickets to games, expensive sneakers, free trans­portation and other incentives. 
"We don't even think of buy­ing recruits," Boeheim said. "We travel, my staff and I, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of miles a year to recruit. 
"We're on a lot of kids' lists before we even contact them. They've· seen us on television. We don't have to cheat to get involved with them," Boeheim said. 
Happy Birthday Mike Kane! 
You're 19 today!!! 
HAPPY 22nd B·DAY GARY·D 

Love, Your F, L, and C 
The Syracuse coach criticized the book at a news conference Tuesday afternoon, saying it represents "the abuses of jour­nalism." 
The book alleges that Robert Johnson, working on behalf of Syracuse, steered current Syracuse freshman Conrad McRae and former Orangemen Tony Bruin to Syracuse. The book also questions Syracuse's involvement with Marcus Liberty and Jamie Brandon, two Chicago prep stars suc­cessfully recruited by Illinois. 
Johnson, who is unemployed and lives in a New York City housing project, is often seen sitting by the Syracuse bench or in the locker room after games, according to the authors. 
Johnson admitted being a diehard Syracuse fan, but de­nied that he pressures or en­tices athletes to go to particu­lar schools. 
"I try to help them (players} as much as I can. I try to keep them off the streets and try to help them stay in school," Johnson said. 
"I have nothing to hide," he said. "I just know the coaches. I think it's a real good pro­gram. If someone seeks me out 
and  asks  me,  I  say  good  
things."  
Wolff,  a  Sports  Illustrated  

writer, and Keteyian, who broke the North Carolina State point-shaving scandal story. stop short of accusing Syracuse of violating NCAA regulations. But if the allegations made in the book are true, the university could be guilty of recruiting violations. 
"We stand by our reporting. It's solid reporting through and through," said Keteyian, a former Sports Illustrated writer now working for ABC News. 

page 16 
Feisty Pacella inspires Irish tennis to fight for every point 
By BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer 
Her style of play and her sleeping habits may be the butt of team jokes, but they have paid off for .Junior tennis ace Kim Pacella, who has posted an impressive 1 t.-5 record for the Irish this season. 
More impressive than the Toledo, Ohio native's record, however. is her competitive spirit, which is evident even on the practice court. 
"I fight for points," said Pacella. "People always tease 
Oilers win in overtime 
EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) ­Craig MacTavish scored his 20th goal of the season at the 
1:17 mark of overtime to give the Edmonton Oilers a 4-3 vic­tory over the Pittsburgh Penguins Tuesday night. 
Defenseman Jeff Beukeboom 
had just come out of the 
penalty box when Mark Messier 
picked up a loose puck in the 
neutral zone and broke into the 
Penguins zone with Beukeboom 
and MacTavish. 
He delayed until MacTavish 
moved into the slot behind 
Beukeboom and passed in 
front, where MacTavish lifted a 
shot high over goaltender 
Frank Pietrangelo for the win­
ning goal. 
Mark Lamb had scored late in 
the third period to pull the 
Oilers even with the Penguins, 
who had won the two previous 
meetings between the clubs this 
season. 
Lamb's goal came only 84 
seconds after Kevin Stevens 
had given the Penguins a 3-2 
lead with Pittsburgh's first shot 
of the period. 
Vladimir Ruzicka and Craig Simpson also scored for the Oilers, who moved one point ahead of the Calgary Flames in the race for first place in the Smythe Division. 
Bruins 2, Flyers 1 

PHILADELPIIIA (AP) -Bob Gould's goal with 41 seconds left in regulation gave Boston a 2-1 victory over Philadelphia Tuesday night as the Bruins completed a three-game sweep in their season series with the Flyers. 
Gould tapped in Dave Christian's shot past goalie Ken Wregget in the crease, after Christian stole the puck from defenseman Terry Carkner at the blue line. 
Christian skated in with the puck but hit the post with a wrist shot that denected back to Gould. 
The defeat tied the Flyers' club record of 16 home losses set in the 1968-69 season. Philadelphia, last in the Patrick Division, is 14-16-2 at home this season. 
Whalers 4, Islanders 2 

UNIONDALE, N.Y. (AP) ­Kevin Dineen scored three goals as Hartford won its fourth straight game by beating the slumping New York Islanders 4-2. 
Dineen broke a 1-1 tic at 2:26 
with a power-play goal and 
swatted in a rebound at 18:15 
to drop the Islanders to 0-8-2 
in their last 10 games. 
Hartford's Peter Sidorkiewicz made 23 saves. lie has won all four career decisions againsi the Islanders, allowing only seven goals. 
Devils 2, Blues 1 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -John MacLean and Doug Browu scored second-pe­riod goals and Chris Terreri me because I'm always scrap­ping and diving around, even at practice. I hate to lose." 
"She doesn't like to lose," agreed Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback. "She gets a lot of balls back over the net. She's such a good competitor that she's hard to beat." 
Pacella's physical prowess, which has allowed her only one loss in the spring season, is matched by her mental strength and her love of the game. 
"She has a great attitude to­wards tennis and everything," said Louderback. "I've never seen her mentally down. She's 
stopped 16 shots as New Jersey defeated St. Louis 2-1 and snapped the Blues' three-game winning streak. 
The victory was only the Devils' third in 12 games {3-7­
2) and comes at the start of a crucial three-game homestand that could determine whether New Jersey stays alive in the Patrick Division playoff race. 
The Devils' victory moved them into a third-place tie in the Patrick Division with 64 points. 


always positive, always in a good mood, wanting to play." 
"I don't mind practice be­cause I love the game," said Pacella. "If it wasn't fun I wouldn't play -tennis is my way of relaxing." 
When not relaxing on the court, the Finance major is busy catching up on schoolwork or one of her other favorite pastimes, sleep. 
"Everyone teases me because I'm always the first one in my section to get to bed. People say like 'Wow Kim, 10 p.m. and 
Kim Pacella you're still awake!' I just like to 
American+ 

Red Cross BEFORE YOU CHASE AFTER SPRING BREAK catch the comedy of ~ LENTINI & RIGGI ~

~ 

~~5

9:30 PM Thursday at 
NIGHTCLUB 

§§§§§§§~~~~Dr. Daniel H. Winicu~~~~§§~§§§ Dean of Administration and Registrar 
• Registration for the 1990 fall semester will take place between March 26 and AprU 10. according to the following schedule: 
3/26/90-3/29/90 Senior/Grad Students/Law Students (level 8) 
3/30/90-4/4/90 Juniors/Grad Students/Law Students (level 7) 
4/ 5/90-4/10/90 Sophomores/Grad Students/Grad Business Students (levelS) 
• 
Appointments to use DART during this Registration period will be scheduled between 12 noon and 7 pm. The terminals in the Registrar's Office will be available during these times. 

• 
The unrestricted add/drop periods will be between 7 pm and 12 midnight, Monday-Friday, and between 10 am and 12 midnight Saturday and Sunday. Students can change their schedules at these times, without an appointment, after their DART appointment time. 

• 
DART books can be obtained from Department Offices, Deans' Offices and the Registrar's Office after Tuesday, March 6, 1990. check with you department for instructions on obtaining PINs. We cannot insure that changes of major requested between March 5 and April 10 can be processed. This may mean that you will have to wait until after April 10 to register for majors-only courses in your new maJor. 

• 
In addition to the regular course listing, the new DART book will also list courses according to the times the courses are offered. 

• 
The DART video will be shown for students who have not used DART in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education (CCE), Tuesday, March 20 and Wednesday, March 21. There will be three showings each evening: 6:30 pm, 7:15pm, and 8:00pm. 


sleep, I guess." 
Hopefully Pacella and the rest of the team will be well rested for their upcoming Spring Break swing through Southern 
California. The Irish will take on live teams, including fifth ranked Pepperdine and second ranked UCLA. The Notre Dame women, who are not ranked na­tionally, expect the matches to be challenging. 
"California should be interesting," said Pacella. "It should show us what we're made of. Everyone is ready to win -we should do well." 

-

Stalled baseball negotiations may postpone start of regular season 
NEW YORK (AP) -Baseball urgency when management's negotiations resumed Tuesday Player Relations Committee night after a nine-day layoff canceled an owners meeting and took on a sense of added scheduled later in the week. 
Milwaukee owners Bud Selig, the PRC chairman, made the announcement just before ne­gotiations resumed in 
Spring Break '90 

United Limo Hourly Service to O'Hare & Midway airports 
Departures from Notre Dame 

Leave Notre Dame Bus Shelter 
Ph. 219-674-7000 
3:50AM 4:50AM 5:50AM 6:50AM 
7:50AM 8:50AM 9:50AM 10:50 AM 
11:50 AM 
12:50 PM 1:50PM 2:50PM 
3:50PM 4:50PM 5:50PM 6:50PM 

SOUTH BEND TIME 
Arrive O'Hare Airport Upper Level All Airlines 
Ph. 800-833-5555 
6:00AM 7:00AM 8:00AM 
9:00AM 
10:00 AM 
11:00 AM 
Noon 1:00PM 
2:00PM 3:00PM 4:00PM 5:00PM 
6:00PM 7:00PM 8:00PM 9:00PM 
CHICAGO TIME i 
Departures from O'Hare 

Arrive Midway Airport All Airlines 
Ph. 800-833-5555 
5:40AM 6:40AM 7:40AM 8:40AM 
9:40AM 
10:40 AM 
11:40 AM 
12:40 PM 
1:40PM 2:40PM 3:40PM 4:40PM 
5:40PM 6:40PM 7:40PM 8:40PM 
CHICAGO TIME 
Leave O'Hare Lower Level Term. 1 -United Ph. 800-833-5555 6:50AM 7:50AM 8:50AM 9:50AM 10:50 AM 11:50 AM 12:50 PM 1:50PM 2:50PM 3:50PM 4:50PM 5:50PM f::50 PM ; :50 PM E:50 PM 1C35 PM  Leave O'Hare Lower Level Restaurant Rotunda Ph. 800-833-5555 7:05AM 8:05AM 9:05AM 10:05 AM 11:05 AM 12:05 PM 1:05PM 2:05PM 3:05PM 4:05PM 5:05PM 6:05PM 7:05PM 8:05PM 9:05PM 10:50 PM  Leave Midway Airport Dollar Rent-A-Car Ph. 800-833-5555 T7:05AM T8:05 AM T9:05 AM T10:05 AM T11 :05 AM T12:05 PM T1:05 PM T2:05 PM T3:05 PM T4:05 PM T5:05 PM T6:05 PM T7:05 PM T8:05 PM T9:05 PM T10:30 PM  
CHICAGO TIME  CHICAGO TIME  CHICAGO TIME  

T -Carrier Is Tri-State Coach Line. 
Reservations encouraged. 
674-7000 United Limo 
We'll get you there. 

Commissioner Fay Vincent's of-flee at 6 p.m. EST. The PRC met for about three hours Tuesday afternoon before the negotiat­ing session and Selig said it will meet again Wednesday morn­ing. 
The meetings continued throughout the night and the two sides were still talking at 11 p.m. 
"We have been in close con­tact with other 20 clubs," Selig said. "They have been not only cooperative but totally support­ive." 
Management's lockout hit its 20th day on Tuesday and both sides say that if camps don't open by Monday, there's little 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
that I couldn't get passed cleanly. I think the key was that I had a balanced attack. I was patient and came in when the opportunity presented itself. It was a super positive weekend for the team. We lost a heart­breaker to Pepperdine. I ,feel we believe in ourselves more but we have to take one match at a time.We have to let success take care of itself." 
The second aspect that trig­gered the good fortunes of the weekend was the high level of doubles play. In the Duke con­test, the Irish led the match 4-2 after singles play. Notre Dame cemented the win by taking two out of three doubles contests. The victors included the Irish's No. 1 duo of DiLucia and Mike Wallace. They downed the com­bination of Geoff Grant-Jason Rubell, 6-3, 6-3. Also, the most consistent tandem all season long, the No. 3 team of Ryan Wenger-Andy Zurker, won in straight sets. 6-4, 6-2. 
In the TCU match, Notre Dame's No. 1 team conquered the nation's No. 4 collegiate doubles pair of Sandon Stone­Louis Ruett, 4-6, 7-6, 7 -5(7 -4). And again the No. 3 duo added another notch to their victory belt by defeating TCU's No. 3 team of Mark Tjia-Phil Jeffrey in three sets. 
"In the Duke match, I knew chance opening day could re­main on April 2 as scheduled. 
A quarterly meeting of own­ers had been scheduled for .Thursday morning in Irving, Texas, but the PRC thought it was better to negotiate than to 
spend  a  day  traveling  and  
briefing owner s.  
"To  come  to  Dallas  just  

merely to be given an update which they can be given by tele­phone ... would be a waste of time," Selig said. "What could have more top priority than ne­gotiations with the association. So to take another day or two off to go to Dallas seems to be unproductive and unreasonable on our part." 
we had to do what we had been doing all season long-that is clinching it in the doubles," said Bayliss. In the TCU match, the whole match came down to the No. 1 doubles match and Dave won five straight points from the deuce courts. At the third match point of the day, Mike hit an unbelievable half-volley and backhand volley for a winner for the match." 
The third factor that con­tributed to the win was the resurgence of team captain and the lone senior of the squad, Walter Dolhare. Prior to this tournament, Dolhare's play had been sub-par and he was un­able to pull out the close matches. But in this tourna­ment, the Dolhare of old resur­faced and found his game. The Buenos Aires native surprised the ranked John Rubell of Duke, 4-6, 7-6, 7-5 and the Hornfrog's Mark Tjia, 6-1,6-1. 
"Walter found himself this weekend," said Bayliss. "It is great to have him back. He was all over his opponent in the TCU match. I think he is slowly overcoming a fear of his own talent. He was hesitant to step and execute at crunch time." 
Notes: In the latest ITCA poll which was released March 6, Notre Dame was ranked 22nd in the nation. This ranking does not include last weekend's vic­tories over Duke and TCU as well as the loss to Pepperdine. 
/  =  Ihe Obsener___  '  
is currently accepting applications for the following position:  
Advertising Clerk  
For more information contact Beth at 239-6900 or 283-2722  
... '  ~  

~ 
.., 
/ 
" 
:.= 

Ihe~ObsenB-__ 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Representatives 
For more information contact Beth at 239-6900 or 283-2722 
' ~ 
_,j 

,~~~·~-=-,.·•. •. ··~··.·-.----.--.--.--.·-.--.·-.··.""•."'•."• -;._-..·,. ·,.•; -:"• • '"'• • • • • "'"' -·-• • • ~ ,.·_.·.,•."':·.•--..:-:"'.•"".•"'_-_ ,.-,;-..• -~---,."' ·,..·.·.-... -.. ""... '" ......-_ ...-...•...-'",."",.'"."" -.:•.:-,·...-..~ ....•. •;•,-.-:-,_:_-__-:-.~:;_~-~-...-~.---..-.~u-_:...:•;:;~~-4~ 'I )·, I,' o ···, ,., '• ¥ 
... 
~18 The Observer 
No~tr-e~D~a_m_e--sw~im_m__ 
B JANICE ARCHER 
slorts Writer 
Improving ov~r last y~ar's sixth plac~ finish, tlw Notn~ Dame men's swim team took third place at last weekend's Eastern lntnrcollegiatn Swim­ming and Diving Championships. Tlw squad set fourtn1•n rww university records. The nwet, ht>ld at Clnveland State University. had tlw Irish facing diflieult compl'­tition against Soutlwrn Illinois and West Virginia. 
Soutlwrn Illinois. ranked lif­tnenth in tlw nation, won the title in tlwir lirst year of com­peting in the championship with 
772.5 points. The margin of victory was wide, becausn sec­ond place West Virginia, who won the rm~et last year. scored 
578.5 points. Next in the eleven-team finld standings were tlw Irish. who finished 
NO's Livorsi succeeds despite slow pitch 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
Much ink is dedicated to the hardest thrower in the NCAAs. But what about the slowest? 
Tony Livorsi, middle relief pitcher for the Notre Dame baseball team. has one of the slowest fastballs around. That stated, his accomplishments in competitive collegial!~ baseball are quite impressive. 
"Tony couldn't break a plate of glass with his fastball." says third-year coach Pat Murphy, who has envigorated the pro­gram with enthusiasm and vi­tality. "There's a lot of talk about who is the fastest thrower in the NCAAs, but Tony Livorsi is the slowest. And something needs to be said for that." 
But isn't there a certain stan­dare! of velocity at which all collegiate pitchers throw? 
"Most of the student  body,  
male  and  female,  ean  throw  
harder  than  Tony,"  says  

Murphy, "but Tony can put the ball anywhere he wants to. lie gets the hitters out, and that's why he's here. 
with an impressive 527 points. 
The Irish won two first placnvidories in the twenty events over the three day champi­onship. testimony to their depth. The squad was lead by two freshmen, John Godfrey and Colin Coolly 
Godfrey captured the 200­yard backstroke with an im­pressivP time of I :5:1.32. lie was supported in this event by junior Jim Byrne, who linislwd second in I :54.93, and fresh­man Tom Whowell, third placP finisher. who raced thn back­stroke in l :55.08. 
Cooley edged out a first placP victory in the 200-yard breast­stroke by three-tenths of a sec­ond over the second place fin­isher in 2:06.05. Two other Irish swimmers placed in the breaststroke finals. Ed BrodNick, who placed third in 2:06.82, and captain Tom Penn, 

Tony Livorsl 
"Tony is an overachiever. lie's found out how to pitch. lie is the perfect example of pitch­ing versus throwing, but his speeds arc slow, slower and slowest." 
Although some of Murphy's words could be slight ~xagger­ation, the point remains that Livorsi is not a college pitcher b!lcause of the overpowering nature of his fastball. 
"''m the type of pitcher who has to throw all his pitches for strikfls at any count," says left­hander Livorsi, whose reper­toire includes a fastball, a curvcball and a changeup. ''I'm not an overpowering pitcher. 


.....,..-,~..._ 
"""""'""'·· 

The Observer/Patrick Kusek Karen Robinson and the Notre Dame's women's basketball team ended their regular season last night by beating Detroit 86-72. 
t~1; seventh placer With a tune of. ~:08. ~ 1. . 
I?e lnsh have been relymg !~n their depth throughout their impressive dual-mnet season, which ended with a record of 16-2. They displayed this qual­ity in the 200 individual medley, when four swimmers placed in the championship race. Broderick took second ( 1 :52.06), Penn finished fifth (1:54.16), Byrne, sixth (1 :54.92). and Cooley won S!W­nnth in 1:54.96 as the Irish dominated the 1went. 
The talented team of Whowell, Coolny, Broderick and Jim Birmingham captured sec­ond place in the 400-yard med­ley relay with a season bost time of 3:27.44. 
"The championship part of the season is a way of celebrat­ing the hard work the team has put in over the year," said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. 
I'm the kind of pitcher that bat­ters want to hit off of, so I have to be smart." 
Livorsi's craftiness has been borne out through his past per­formances. The senior from Glenview, Ill. has gone 7-2 with a 4.71 ERA over the last two years. Last season, he appeared 27 times, earning a 4-1 record, striking out 33 batters and walking only 16 in 58-2/3 in­nings. His number of appear­ances last year was second highest on the team. 
This season, Livorsi has al­ready pitched against Hawaii and Texas, two of the toughest teams the Irish will face this year. True to his role, he paci­fied the other team during the middle innings until it was late enough for Murphy to replace him with the dosing pitcher. 
"Tony is a frontline pitcher," says Murphy. "He can be in­volved in any of our big games. lie's a setup man, getting us to the closer, facing about three to seven hitters. He gets us out of jams." 
Livorsi will be given an occa­sional start when the Irish have to play many games in a short amount of time. Last year, he threw a complete-game shutout against Illinois-Chicago in his only start. 
''I'm like the utility infielder of the pitching staff." says Livorsi. "I do whatever Murph (coach Murphy) needs me to. Murph thinks middle relief is where I perform best, so I take pride in performing that role to the best of my ability." 
Part of Livorsi's duty now is to help some of the younger pitchers on a staff filled with freshmen and sophomores. This is one more role that the reliever has come to aceept and enjoy. 
"The freshmen we have now on the squad are probably the most talented we've ever brought in," says Livorsi. "They need little pointers and adjust­ments on the fine points of playing thn game, and hopefully my experinnc<' has rubbPd off on the freshmen and sopho­mores a little bit." 
This young Irish squad is corning off orw of its most suc­cessful seasons when it won a srhool rncord 48 ganws and re­ceived an NCAA tournarm~nt bid for the first tirnn in 19 years. Now, Livorsi and company an~ not looking to the NCAAs just yet, but rather conenntrating on tlw upeoming games. 
'Tm just taking it a day at a time, foeusing on each game ahead of us," says Livorsi. 'Tm working to improve, with each ganw building on what I've donn before." 
Murphy likes this 5-11, 170­pound sp1~eimnn of average tal­ent. 

they knew how to put the puck The most important element in the net. 
of the season, however. was the
Hockey 
play of Madson. The record­continued from page 20 First-year defenseman Dan breaking goalie will be difficult Sawyer (12 G, 10 A) showcased for the Irish to replace in the 
Several young players showed 

an outstanding slapshot on the future. Notre Dame hockey
that there is an exciting future 
point, particularly on the power fans for a long time to come 
ahead for Notre Dame hockey 
play, while classmate Eric 

will fondly remember Madson's ~~~;;;;;;;;;:;~~;;;;;;~~~~~;;~~;;;;;;;;;~~~
as well. Freshmen forwards 
Gregoire showed promise be­classic stand-up style; his re-rr 
Sterling Black. (14 G, 9 A), Cur­
fore suffering a season-ending placement will have to live up to 


TOWNHOUSES 
For Rent 
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems ; Basements 
Rear Yards Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 
232-8256 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Wednesday ACROSS 30 Highway 52 Practices 
4:20 p.m. "Seeing Neutrons in the Middle of the Nu­divisions prestidigitation
1 Covenant 

cleus-Easier Said than Done," Prof. James Kelly, Uni­31 Rawboned one 55 Comparison
5 Pkg. 

versity of Virginia. Room 118 Nieuwland Hall. Sponsored 34 Interdiction word 
8 Screen vamp

by Dept. of Physics. 35 Midpts. 56 Sinful
12 Support beam 36 Mock 57 Argosy
13 Cote mothers 37 Move like a 15 Spurred butterfly 58 Golfer
4:30 p.m. "Ethics and Business," by Joseph Pichler, 
Ballesteros38 Refreshed the 

President and CEO of Kroger Co., in the Hesburgh Library 16 lt. in Mexico 
inner man 59 Change for a 

Auditorium. The lecture is co-sponsored by the Colleges of 17 Sitarist Shankar 
39 Senior member twenty
.Arts and Letters and Business Administration. 18 Weeper of myth 
40 Compound with 60 Bedecked19 Turn down 
two double 61 Checkers choice trash? 

bonds 22 Smorgasbord 41 Carolina river 
62 Surfeit smack? 
43-Antilles 26 Talisman 44 Warsaw wax? 
DOWN

29 Reduced in 48 Tiny time price period? 
1 Stevedore's 
MENUS 
spot 2 Up to snuff 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Dogie 4 Worries 5 Deprived 
Notre Dame 
6 Doc, for one 
7 Mississippi River sight
Oven Fried Chicken 
8 Legal outlines 
Noodles Homanoff 
9 Earlier than now
Swedish Meatballs w/Sauce 
10 Confederate
Marinated Flank Steak Sandwich 
Johnny 
11 Dog-days drink 
14 Put through a sieve 
21 Lusitania sinker 



23 Aesopian output 24 Mother of Galahad 25 Frame for drying 
clothes 26 Dogpatch creator 
27 Capuchin order founder-da Bascio 
28 Spin off the spool 

31 Wily 32 Cedar Rapids 
college 33 Shutout spoiler 36 Mountain wind 37 Seines 39 Proceed no 
more 40 Lucy's mate 42 Switched to the 
low beam 43 Delineated 45 Expresses 46 Different 47 Head for the exit 49 Iris layer 50 Hair dye 51 Additionally 52 Promoted pvt. 53 Wholly 54 Grazing ground 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

The rooster stared back at me, his power and confidence almost overwhelming. Down below, a 

I  D\0 \i.'  SOM£1-\0W  l  
I  OlD  IT.'  lt.\t>.GI~£D l'~\'3  
\  EW£RIEI'ICE '+IOULD BE MORE ~'+lf~RI>l~G.  
\  


female paused warily at the coop's entrance. I kept the camera running. They were beautiful, these "Chickens in the Mist." 

Commissioner 
Rpp/ica tions 

Special Euents Performing Rrts Ideos ond Issues Campus Entertainment Mouies Seruices Publicity Music 
Pick up applications ot the Secretory's Oesk,2nd Floor Lafortune. Rpplicotions due WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21 
J;.,•,;.·."·"'....,..-.. ·e""a"•""a·........... -.-.-..... -....... ""& .... -...... -.··••··.·.~-....-.-.~.·.·a-.-.-..-..":'~"':",;;:.~•""';~..-' ~ •~"' •--­
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


i ' 
j 

Sports
page 20 Wednesday, March 7, 1990 
Irish LaCrosse team overcomes shakey start to defeat Radford, 10-8 
-----~----------~-­

By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
No longer are the followers of Notre Dame tennis looking toward the future. Irish tennis fans are basking in the glory of the present. At the II.E.B. Collegiate Tennis Championships March 1-4, Notrn Dame undeniably shocknd the collegiate tennis world by upsetting Texas Christian University, the No. 2 seed of the tournament and No. 8 collegiate tnam. The Irish beat the llornfrogs in the quar­terfinals, 5-4, topping off a tourney in which they knocked off Duke University, the seventh seed and the No. 20 collegiate team. in the first round, 6-3. Notre Dame beat Oklahoma University in the preliminary round, 5-1. 
Notre Dame's surprising suc­cess came to end on Sunday, against Western power Pepperdine University, which is expected to be in the Top 10 when the next national poll is released. The Irish lost to PU 5­4 in the semifinals. 

"We wanted to go down and not embarrass ourselves," said head coach Bob Bayliss whose team boosted their record to 14-2. "We exceeded any goals that we had set for ourselves. We didn't worry about who we would have to play next. We didn't worry about the future." 
The good news does not end there. Notre Dame's No. 1 player Dave DiLucia was voted by his peers as the Most Outstanding Player of the Tournament, a hefty accom­plishment considering the quality of top notch talent that was assembled in Corpus Christi, Texas. 
The only bad thing about the weekend is that the cat is out of the bag. The Irish will no longer be able to surnrisP anv­one in the nation. The word is out -Notre Dame has estab­lished itself as a national level collegiate team. The days of anonymity are over. 
And why did Notre Dame let it all out this weekend? 
"I think that the freshman are not freshman anymore," said Bayliss. "We played the 


Led by McHugh, team's record is 2-0 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Brian Mayglothling scored two 
Sports Writer goals. and junior attacker Mike 
Semwtt recorded OIH' assist. 

The Notre Dame men's Yet it was tlw Highlanders of 
lacrosse team narrowly edged Hadford who seorPd early and 
the. Highlanders of Hadf'ord often. jumping out to a quirk 3­
University 10-8 Tuesday night 0 lead in the first quarter. 
at the Loftus Sports Center, thanks not only to a speedy of­
raising the Irish record to 2-0 fense, but also to tlw devastat­
for the young season. while ing play of junior goalki~Pper 
Radford fell to 0-3. Nash Wainwright. 
Senior attacker Brian Notre Dame. once it reorga­
McHugh was the high scorer nized its ganw plan. was quiek 
for the Irish, with three goals to stage a eonwback, as tlw 
and one assist. llis four points Irish tallied four goals to sPizn 
on the evening moved him into a 4-3 advantage bPhind tlw st­
eighth place on the Notm Dame ingy play of the NotrP DamP de­
lacrosse all-tinw scoring list. In fense and relentl1~ss shooting of 
other scoring, sophomore mid­the Irish ofTrmsn. lloWPVI'r, nei­
fielder Ed Lamb had three 
goals, freshman midfielder see LAX/ page 14 
best eompetition you can play 
in the fall and that experience 
is being absorbed. The fresh­
man have no preconceived no­
tions about who we should win 
or lose to. Honestly, I still do 
not know how good we are. But 
I think that we came of age in 
the Duke match. We really 
showed a lot of character." 
Not withstanding the fresh-men's critical contributions, three factors enabled Notre Dame to spring into the semi­finals of a tournament where 10 of the country's Top 20 teams were present. The first item was Dave DiLucia's out­standing play. In the tourna­ment, the Norristown, PA native trounced the 20th-ranked Mark Manz of Duke, 6-0, 6-0. and TCU's 28th-ranked Louis Ruett, 6-1, 6-1. 
"I think I adjusted well to playing outside,"said DiLucia of his team's first outside match of the season. "I was aggres­sive during the weekend. I serve-and-volleyed fairly well. I came in a lot to the net and felt 

see TENNIS I page 17 ting two top-ranked teams before falling to Pepperdine. 
Hockey ends year losing two in Alabama 
By KEN TYSIAC straight goals to eventually Forest and Mankato State. Sports Writer take a 9-3 lead at the 10:37 Madson passed an important 
mark of the third period. Notre personal milestone in a 5-0 vic­
Dame scored the last three tory over Mankato State on De­
The Notre Dame hockey team goals of the game to make the cember 1. In that game he lost by a score of 9-2 to final score respectable at 9-6. shattered the all-time Notre Alabama-Huntsville and Senior left wing Bruce Guay Dame record for victories by a dropped a 9-6 decision to and sophomore defenseman goaltender with his 47th career Alaska-Anchorage this past Kevin Patrick each scored two win. lie also tied the Irish weekend in Huntsville to finish goals for the Irish in the loss, record for shutouts with the the 1989-90 season with an 18-while Bankoske and junior Mike fourth of his career. 15 record. Curry added a goal and one as-The four straight victories 
On Friday night, Alabama­sist apiece. Anchorage outshot brought Notre Dame to 10-2 on Huntsville jumped out to a 5-0 the Irish 44-26 for the game. the season. A four-game losing first period lead. Sophomore ••• streak soon changed all that, left wing Lou Zadra finally put The Irish began the season and as the Irish went on the the Irish on the board at 2:47 with a bang, winning six of road over Christmas Break. the of the second period, but their first seven games. The complexion of the season Huntsville responded with four highlight of the streak came changed. consecutive goals to deliver the when powerful St. Cloud State Crushing losses to powerful knockout punch. rolled into the Joyce ACC for a Wisconsin and Minnesota-Du­
Freshman defenseman Dan two-game weekend series. luth put Notre Dame's past vic-Sawyer added a meaningless: Notre Dame played nearly tories into proper perspective, goal late in the third period. flawless hockey in the first and the Irish seemed to realize Sophomore center Dave game t~.at weekend and man-that they had a long way to go Bankoske assisted on both aged ~o record a 3-2 upset vic-before they could be considered Notre Dame goals. torv in what Irish coach Hie one of the top teams in the 
The Irish proved they hadn't Sc';afer called a "miracle on country. learned their lesson about giv­ir<J." Senior goaltender Lance Strides were made, however, ing up early leads when they al­rJtadson was superb in the win and perhaps the most impres­lowed Alaska-Anchorage to over the Huskies. Madson sive aspect of the season was build a 5-0 advantage midway stopped 47 shots as sophomore the consistent play of the Irish through the second period on left wing Lou Zadra scored the top line of Bankoske (28 G. 28 Saturday night. Notre Dam; winning goal for the Irish. A on the season) senior right made a better attempt at a The following night St. Cloud wing Tim Kuehl (14 G, 29 A). comeback this time, scor'ng gained its revenge-pounding and Zadra (17 G, 19 A). The three times in less than live Notre Dame by an 8-2 score. three of them combined for 59 minutes to pull within two. The Irish didn't let this loss goals on the s1mson, 36.6 per­

Anchorage then mad the discourage them. Instead, they cent of the team total.
The Observer/Scott McCann 

Irish forget their hopf3 of a rebounded to sweep a pair of
lhe Irish hockey team ended its season last weekend dropping two i'1 

comeback win, tallyhg four two-game series against Lake see HOCKEY I page 18
Huntsville, Alabama. 






