......--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1990 VOL. XXIII NO. 66 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Maya Angelou 
speaks to 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON 
News Writer 
Actress, poet, and author Maya Angelou shared some of her life experiences and en­couraged men and women of the Notre Dame community to attempt to make a difference in the world in a talk Thursday at Stepan Center. 
She encouraged students to seek an education rather than mere training. 
"Wherever two or three are gathered together with the in­tent of sharing experiences," she said. "it seems to me we are about the business of being educated in truth." 
"Young men and women in this institution of higher educa­tion, make time work for you," said Angelou. "Involve your­selves in the wisdom that has gone on before you so that when you leave this institution of higher education the society will not say of you, so what?... I am society, I am the hungry, I am the displaced, I am the un­derprivileged. So what does your degree mean to me?" 
She added, "The only way you will be able to face that question is (if) you know enough to know (that) you know absolutely nothing and its time to get started." 
Angelou says reading is the 


students 
key to becoming educated. 
"Some of the poetry of early 19th and 20th century will be lost if young men and women don't keep it alive. Go to the li­brary and read Black American literature," she said. 
"It will help you to under­stand that someone has been there before you. Someone has been lonely before you; some­one has been called out of her name before you, someone has been disappointed before you and yet someone has survived. That is supposed to encourage you." 
"Everyone in this place has been paid for whether his or her ancestors are from Ireland, Asia, South America, or Africa," she said. "They have already paid for you and me... it seems to me so clear that our only real charge is to prepare ourselves so that we can do our (part) for someone else who is yet to come. And that you are at this institution of higher education tells me that that is really your purpose." 
Angelou also stressed the im­portance of self love. "I know it is important that each person love his or herself. I never trust a person who tells me he loves me if he doesn't love himself." 
see MAYA 1page 4 


The Observer/Pat Kusek 

It's cold! 

Senior Marty Sullivan, trudges across the snow-covered quad in front of Pangborn Hall. Students were introduced to the first snow­fall of the season last Sunday. 

Waiting to declare a major may hurt sophomores 
By MONICA YANT 
Associate News Editor 
The undeclared sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters may find that waiting to choose a major spells disaster during registration. 
"Because I'm undecided, I wanted to shop around," said sophomore Mary Schultze. With a DART time scheduled on the first day of registration for sophomores, Schultze thought she'd have few difficulties get­ting some of the introductory­level courses in the areas of government, psychology and American studies that would help her decide on a major. 
What Schultze got was a dif­ferent story. 
She was unable to register for any second-level philosophy or theology courses. She was also closed out of most government classes and the American studies class she wanted. 

Registration i9(): : 
I I :~:o:~:~~d other 
1 1 
Getting a psychology course also fell through for Schultze, who said that "all the classes I wanted were for majors-only." 
Although Schultze was able to register for a full schedule, she admitted that of her five classes, only three were courses she wanted to take, one of those being Core. 
Jennifer Swize had similar difficulties, but a later DART time kept her from registering for a full schedule. Swize said she was interested in the areas of government and history, but unable to DART any classes in those departments. "Of the classes that I had (after regis­tering). I knew none of them would lead me to a major." 

A week later, Swize has a complete schedule, but not after attempting to register for over 25 classes. She was able to pick up a government class from a newly opened section, and also a history course. 
"The classes I have were probably my last choices, but now I'm just glad that I even have them," Swize said. 
The problem of the unde­clared sophomore is not going unnoticed, according to Eileen Kolman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. 
"We're particularly concerned that students decide on their colleges," Kolman said of the Freshman Year of Studies. "It pretty much works out, except in the College of Arts and Let­ters." 
Of the nearly 1,800 Fresh­men, almost one-third of those will choose the College of Arts and Letters, she said. 

Two men, 2 boys arrested for campus theft 

By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
Two local juveniles were ar­rested for criminal conversion at Grace Hall Wednesday afternoon, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. 
A Grace resident spotted the two teenage boys on the ninth floor and questioned their purpose for being in the dorm. 
One of the boys was carrying a pair of shoes, Hurley said. It appeared to the resident that the shoes did not belong to the boys. When the suspects real­ized they had been spotted, they fled down the stairs, Hurley said. 
Some residents then chased the suspects down the stairs and out of the building. One suspect was stopped in the C-2 parking lot; the other was chased to the lawn area outside Pasquerilla East before being stopped. 
After the suspects were stopped by the Grace Hall residents they were taken back to the rector's office at Grace until Security arrived, Hurley said. J'he juveniles were arrested by Security and taken to Park View Juvenile Detention Facility. 
In an unrelated incident, 
see THEFT I page 4 

"I would be reluctant to say to 1,800 freshmen to 'hurry up and declare your major because you may have problems (registering) next year,'" Kolman said. 
Encouraging students to de­clare a major right away goes against the "kind of philosophy that we operate by," she said. During their freshman year, students are advised to "look around, to think about what they enjoy," before choosing a major. 
About 20 percent of students have decided on a major by the end of the first semester, sophomore year, according to Robert Waddick, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Let­ters. 
A lot of sophomores, however, declare a major "just to take a course," he said. "There's a lot of pressure on them 
see DART I page 4 



Students send troops Kooi-Aid 

By DAVID KINNEY 
News Writer 
Students at Notre Dame and 

Saint Mary's are currently 
working to help U.S. troops in 
Saudi Arabia through a cam­
pus-wide Kool Aid drive. · 
Erin Lavelle, head of the Stu­

dent Union Board, decided to 
start the drive after reading an 
article in The Observer asking 
students to send Kool Aid to 
U.S. troops. "I said 'let's get a much bigger effort,'"said Lavelle. 
The collection began this 

Monday and will run through 
and Kool Aid will be collected in 
drop boxes in all NO and Saint 
Mary's dorms, at the LaFortune 
information desk, Haggar Hall, 
the Huddle and at Martin's Su­
permarket at the corner of 
Ironwood and State Road 23. 
There are also cards for stu­

dents to sign that will be sent as 
well. 
"The Kool Aid drive is an at­

tempt to get the entire campus 
to help the troops," said 
Lavelle. 
At the end of the drive, all the Kool Aid will be shipped to New York and, eventually, on to the Persian Gulf. Its destination is two groups of soldiers repre­senting each of the branches of the armed forces. The process should take a month, said Lavelle. 
While the destination was randomly chosen, Lavelle said that if anyone knows of specific friends or relatives or former ND students in Saudi Arabia, she is willing to help them, also. 
Lavelle is being helped by Lisa Bostwick, Joe· Wilson and Nicole Farmer. Lavelle said Sugar-Free Kool Aid was cho­sen for a variety of reasons. 
Soldiers drink gallons of wa­ter each day, and "tt:ey want to flavor it somehow," she said. Kool Aid is a pure substitute for water. "I think it has something to do with the absorption rate," said Lavelle. 
Other brands are not as ef­fective, since troops must be able to process the liquid effec­tively in order to avoid dehy­dration, according to Lavelle. 
The effort is extremely low­cost, the drop off boxes and and postage should be low, said 
see KOOL I page 4 

Deloitte & Touche gives ND $500,000 
Special to the Observer of the University. 
"We at Deloitte & Touche be­

The University of Notre Dame lieve the continued involvement has received a $500,000 com­of the academic community in mitment from the international accounting research is a critical accounting and consulting firm factor in the vitality of our pro­of Deloitte & Touche. fession," said Daniel Kelly, vice 
"We are grateful to the part­chairman of Deloitte & Touche ners of Deloitte & Touch and and a 1957 Notre Dame gradu­proud of the teaching and re­ate. "We are pleased to do our search whose value is recog­part to support that effort at nized by their generosity," said Rev. Edward Malloy, president see DELOITIE I page 4 


INSIDE COLUMN 



Lennon's words ring true ten years later 
Imagine all the people/Living life in peace./You may say I'm a dreamer/ But I'm not the only one// hope someday you'll join us/And the world will be as one" 
It's hard to believe Robyn Simmon 
that John Lennon 
wrote "Imagine" 18 Asst. Accent Editor 
years ago. It's even 
harder to believe that John was taken away 
from us ten years ago this Saturday. 
If John were alive today, what would he say about the world's present situation? 
Alfhough no one will ever be able to know what might have been, as a fan of John and the Beatles I can say with a reasonable amount of authority that John would be de­lighted with the end of the cold war and its promise of world peace. 
On the other hand, John would be very disturbed by the threat of war in the Per­sian Gulf. 
Whether you think the U.S. should be in the Persian Gulf to crush the power-hungry Saddam Hussein or that we had no business going into Saudi Arabia in the first place, I think everyone with at least an ounce of humanity and sanity does not want a war to erupt in the Middle East. 
It's nice to think that a strategically tar­geted bomb could be dropped on Hussein while he's eating his Cheerios and the men­ace would be gone and everybody could go home, but if we do go to war with Iraq, it is more likely that the confrontation will be long and bloody, and young men and women our age will be fighting and dying. 
The deadline that the U.N. gave Saddam for pulling out of Kuwait is January 15. If Iraq doesn't agree to the U.N.'s terms, there will be war. This all sounds very dis­mal, but through negotiations with the Iraqis we still have a chance to prevent a military conflict and save thousands of lives. 
Or as John said over 20 years ago during the Vietnam War, "Give peace a chance." And it certainly would be a lot better to give peace a chance before anybody died on the battlefield. 
The message of John Lennon and his quest for peace is not a "sixties" thing. You don't have to be a fan of John Lennon or the Beatles to be a fan of peace. And I think that what John wanted for the world is something which we all can share. 
Tomorrow, when John's fans from all over the world commemorate the anniver­sary of his death, I hope that there will be one song that the radio stations will play just as much as John's trademark song, "Imagine." 
That song would be "Happy Xmas War is Over." Not only is the song appropriate for the holiday season, but the lyrics are just as meaningful to us today as they were in 1973: "War is over, if you want it." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 Thursday's Staff 
News Production BradGalko Melissa Cusack Frank Rivera Jeanne Blasi 
Accent Systems Robyn Simmons ~esar Capella Brian Grunert Paul Froning Michelle Devers Charmaine Martinez Circulation 
Bill O'Rourke Sports Matt Novak Mark McGrath 
Viewpoint
Ken Tysiac Denisse Marion-landais 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
---·--_ __.._____________.. 

page 2 The Observer Friday, December 7, 1990 
WEATHER 
30 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 

® © @] ~ [l}] 0 EZJ
~ 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS 

FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a AsSOCiated Press Graph/CsNet 

OF INTEREST 
The feast of the Immaculate Conception holy day masses will be held Friday, Dec. 7, at 5 p.m. and Satur­day, Dec. 8, at 1:30 a.m. at Sacred Heart Church. 
A Christmas dance will be held at Logan Center tonight from 7:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. Van pick-ups at 6:45 
p.m. and 7:10p.m. at Holy Cross Hall, Saint Mary's, and 
6:50 p.m. and 7:15 p.m. at the Main Circle. For informa­tion, call Janet at 284-5090 or Sally at 283-3783. 
A Latin Music Dance Night. sponsored by the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC} will be held at Theodore's tonight starting at 9:30 p.m. Salsa, cumbia, merengue, onda and other music will be played. 
Junior class mass will be held Sunday, Dec. 9, at 
4:30 p.m. in the Alumni Hall Chapel. 

WORLD 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said Thursday he was going to the United States with "several ideas" for reviving the Israeli-Arab peace process, but added the gulf crisis must be resolved first. Shamir also thanked Secretary of State James Baker III for his pledge of American support in case of an Iraqi attack on Israel, but said the Jewish state must fight its own battles. "We wel­come (Baker's) remarks, but we never rely on anyone, even if he is the best friend of Israel," Shamir told re­porters at Ben Gurion International Airport before leav­ing for a nine-day trip to Britain and the United States. 
NATIONAL
Barbara Bush brought some hol­
iday cheer to Children's Hospital on Thursday and shared with the young­sters her fondest wish for a Christmas gift: "Peace." It was Bush's second Christmas visit to the Children's Na­tional Medical Center. "We just started decorating the White House today," said Bush. "And now I've come here and I feel like Christmas has really st­


arted." The children vied for seats next to Bush while the Peace Piper madrigal singers from Chopticon High School of Maryland regaled them with songs ranging from Eliza­bethan Christmas carols to The Reindeer Rap -"Without us, Santa ain't nothin'.'' 
by shooting." The information was signed by NYSE Index 
179.71 -!:} 0.40

State Police Detective Robert Brinson and ap­proved by Prosecutor Will Siders. The felony 
S&P Composite 
329.07 {} 0.85

charge carries a 40-year-sentence to which 20 years may be added for aggravating circum­
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,602.48 .(} 7.92

stances and 10 years subtracted for mitigating 
circumstances. 
Precious Metals Gold {} $2.30 to $373.20/oz. 
Silver ..0. 2.7¢ to $4.136/oz. 

The Knights of the Immaculata will have a mass for the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, Saturday, Dec. 8, at 7:30 p.m. in Alumni Hall Chapel. The Novena prayer will be recited at 7:15p.m. prior to Mass. 
Advent lessons and carols will be performed Sunday, Dec. 9, at 7:15p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
Resident Assistant applications for the 1991-92 year are available in the Office of Student Affairs, 315 Administration Building, from Monday, Dec. 3, to Friday, Jan. 18. 
Paychecks for students who helped with the Rolling Stone Exhibit are available in the Student Activi­ties Office in Room 315, LaFortune. 
Twenty-five pounds of cocaine was found Thursday by security forces aboard an American Airlines plane at Bogota's airport, police said. Drug smugglers placed the cocaine in a hole they drilled under a seat in aisle 28 of the airplane bound for Miami, an airport police report said. During a routine inspection, police found the drugs, which had fallen from the cabin into the baggage depart­ment, the report said. Police said they were investigating how traffickers managed to board the plane and open up the floor. There were no arrests, the report said. 
Government regulators do not have an effective system to manage the consultants hired to sell real estate inherited from failed savings and loans, the head of the General Accounting Office said today. "One of our key concerns is that the RTC (Resolution Trust Corp.) does not have an effective contractor oversight program," Charles Bowsher, head of the congressional investigative agency, told the House Banking Committee. "Because of the large dollar value of assets to be placed under con­tractor control, we believe it is essential that an effective system be put in place as quickly as possible to assure proper contract management and oversight, and minimize RTC's vulnerability to fraud, waste and mismanagement," 
he said. 
20 
Yesterday's high: 39 Yesterday's low: 32 Nation's high: 88 (San Juan Capistrano, Calif.) Nation's low: -13 (West Yellowstone, Mont.) 
Forecast: Increasing cloudiness today. Highs around 40. Mostly cloudy and not as cold tonight. Lows around 30. Mostly cloudy Saturday. Highs again around 40 . 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
ALMANAC 

On December 7: 
eln 1787: Delaware became the first state to ratify the Constitution. eln 1941: The Japanese at­tacked Pearl Harbor. eln 1955: Clement Attlee, British 
Prime Minister from 1945 to 1951, re­signed as leader of the Labour Party, which he had headed for 20 years. 
eln 1972: Apollo 17, the last of 
the Apollo moon series was launched. eln 1979: President Carter re­placed NRC Chairman Joseph Hendrie with John Ahearne. 
INDIANA 

Carl Purvis, 19, of Indianapolis, one of three teenagers charged with murdering a Shelbyville couple, faces a pre-trial hearing Feb. 7. Purvis, arrested at his home late Monday, was charged with one count of murder and taken to the Miami County Jail in Peru, where he made an initial court appearance Tuesday afternoon. Purvis ap­peared before Circuit Judge Bruce Embrey, who read the charging information to him, that on Oct. 28 Purvis "did knowingly kill Nanette Scott 
MARKET UPDATE 


page 3

Friday, December 7, 1990 The Observer 


Campus bands play for charity 
By COLLEEN GANNON News Writer 
A diverse group of campus bands will perform in Satur­day's Earth Jam II, a benefit concert for the environment. 
A $2 admission fee will be charged at the door of Stepan Center and all proceeds col­lected from admission and t­shirt sales will go to Students for Environmental Action (SEAl. 
Earth Jam II, a follow-up to last year's Earth Day celebra­tion at the Fieldhouse Mall, promises to be more than the average concert. Campus groups, such as Amnesty Inter­national, Right to Life and the Gulf Crisis Action Group, will set up information booths. 
At the booths, the groups will pass out information and have "a chance to get a little bit of exposure and attract different groups of people," said sopho­more David Holsinger, SEA fundraising commissioner. 
An open microphone will be available during the approxi­mate half-hour down time be­tween bands. At this time, peo­ple from the audience can take the stage and show off their talents. 
The money raised will be 
used for SEA's "precycling" pro­gram. According to Holsinger. the program is "geared at peo­ple to cut down their waste," rather than merely recycling the waste they do produce. "Next semester SEA will con­centrate on water and food conservation," he added. 
SEA is trying to make some money and increase awareness of the group, Holsinger said. "We (SEA) can attract different groups with the bands," he said. Earth Jam II will also give that same kind of exposure to the other participating campus groups and bands. 
Many campus bands play mainly at local bars. "This is a chance to give the bands more exposure, because not every­body can see them in the bars," Holsinger said. 
The Generics will open Earth Jam II at 7 p.m. They will per­form progressive party rock, including the Cure, U2 and the Cult. 
"We are participating to do a gig that will raise some money for something other than our­selves," said Generics' drummer Dennis Wolfe. 
XYZ Affair, whose five mem­bers all come from South Bend, will take the stage after the Generics at 9 p.m. Three of the band members have played to­gether for approximately three years. Guitarist Scott Gruszyn­ski described the band's sound as really diverse, including classic rock and some new wave. 
Chisel will follow XYZ Affair at 10:30 p.m. Chisel drummer John Dugan and lead singer/guitarist Ted Leo both belong to SEA. "Loud, yet melodic hard core punk rock" is how Leo describes the music of Chisel. According to Leo, Chisel will participate in the concert, because they believe in the whole environmental cause. 
The concert will end with a performance by the nine-mem­ber Exit 77 at midnight. Exit 77 has a unique sound, including acoustics and back-up singers, said bass guitarist Mike Baumer. 
Baumer said he saw the con­cert "as a chance to do some­thing as a group for the envi­ronmental movement." 
In addition to the bands' do­nation of their time and talent, the Student Union Board do­nated $250 to defray the costs of Earth Jam II. 

Week accents drunk driving awareness 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN News Writer 
Governor Evan Bayh has proclaimed Dec. 9-15 as Drunk and Drugged Driving Awareness Week in the state of Indiana. 
Several activities will take place throughout this week to remind Hoosiers to celebrate responsibly during the holidays. 
During the week. Mothers Against Drunk Driving IMADD) will hold a candlelight vigil in remembrance of all victims of drunk driving crashes. MADD will promote their annual "Tie one on" Red Ribbon campaign in cooperation with the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles. The ribbons will be available at all central Indiana license branches. 
"Last year in the month of December alone, 22 Hoosiers died and 658 were injured in alcohol-related traffic crashes," Bayh said. "We hope to see a significant decrease in the numbers this year because of our increased efforts. This year we are again increasing patrols. We are sending the message to 'Make it home for the holidays.'" 
Television public service an­nouncements, posters and over­time law enforcement officers will all be a part of the cam­paign to begin immediately and continue through January 7, 1991. Corporate participation will be solicited through a di­rect mail campaign promoting third party intervention. 
"Sobriety and moderation are what we want to stress this holiday season," said Laura O'Neil, Regional Director for a Drug Free Indiana. "People celebrate best when they do it with much rationale. People have learned not to smoke in bed and how not to use electric appliances while around water. It is time that individuals learn that when they drink, they should not drive." 


CHICAGO'S PREMIER JAZZ SHOW I 
ONE NIGHT ONLY SUNDAY, Dec. 9th· Doors open at 7:00 SHOWTIME: 8:00-12:00pm Ramada Inn, South Bend 
Tickets available at all ~~v.:~sre.=. locations including the JACC and L.S. Ayres. Special seating available for large groups. 

il HAPPY 21st l
. 



il ~ BIRTHDAY :i 
~ 
. 


i~ JAMIE' :
•• • .•
~ 
... A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A •• 
•~ Love, ·• 
·~ 
..

•~ 
Dad, Mom, Mark, Kathy, Erin, Mike, •+ 

•~ 
M L' K . ' d J k


•~ att, 1sa, nstme an ac ·• 
·~~·······························~· 
.·. 'l.:>;;f. 
""l'~r 

... ' ~---~ 
,.. • f!t,;.> 
\ ·%. ". ''"'-' 

., "'·~ ""' . 
·,. .... 
AP Photo 

Gls training in the trenches 
Pvt. Thomas Holdreith of Detroit, center, is followed by Spec. Darnell Johnson of Dent, Mich., during a trench warfare exercise at their base in Aschaffenburg, Germany, Tuesday in preparation for deployment to Saudi Arabia. 
ND professor wins three awards for latest book 
Special to the Observer 
Nathan Hatch, vice president for graduate studies and re­search and professor of history, has received three publication prizes for his book "The Democratization of American Christianity" (Yale University Press, 1989). 
The Society of American His­torians of the Early American Republic in August selected the book among 40 nominees as the best volume published in 1989 on American history between the American Revolution and the Civil War. 
The citation for the award noted, "'The Democratization of American Christianity' takes its place immediately as a vital work on religion in the early 

IheLlbsenu 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Chief 
For information, please contact Kelley Tuthill at 239-5303. To apply for the position, please submit a one-page personal statement 4 p.m. Sunday, Dec. 9. 
!Jil@rp{j)'j/ (JJ~~'j/Q 
~®fJ!lj/ fl30J[jJ@JfjBr§J{ko 
No longer a Teen, but not yet an Adult! 
Love, 
I 
I
A Tribute 10 John Lennon
Your men ofPang6om. 
Pos18f Signed & No. (18"'x24") $23.75 shipped T·Shir1 $19.50 shopped l.on!J-Sieeved T·shirt $25.00 shipped 
CA~-e2?4S... Ta 
Clllglor-



1.:=====:;;;;;;::====:.;...------------.J 10018ridgollllr~.-.CA-~ 
republic; more than that, it compels us to rethink our as­sumptions about the interplay of religion, class, and politics from the Revolution down to the present day." 
Hatch was co-winner in November of the 1990 John Hope Franklin Prize for the best book in American Studies, presented at the annual meet­ing of the American Studies As­sociation in New Orleans, La. 
The volume also received an­other prize prior to publication, the 1988 Albert C. Outler Prize in Ecumenical Church History from The American Society of Church History. 
Yale will publish "The De­mocratization of American Christianity" in paperback in the spring of 1991. 

page 4 

DART 
continued from page 1 
(sophomores) if they want a particular class." 
For the 80 percent of sopho­mores who are still undecided, getting the classes they want can be more difficult, according to Michael Loux, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. He said that those students who have been closed out of courses due to the fact that they are not majors will be accommodated, but that it may take time. 
Loux said that some graduate classes that are presently un­derenrolled will be canceled and reassigned to allow more undergraduate courses to be of­fered. Increasing the size of classes in all departments is another option the College of Arts and Letters is taking. 
"There's no question, that over the next couple of weeks, we will see places open in the College that you wouldn't ex­pect." 
Plans to· increase the faculty in the College of Arts and Let­ters over the next few years should also· help the undeclared sophomore. "As we increase the size of the faculty, we should be better able to cope with diffi­culties," Loux said. 
"Sophomores may be in a better position to do the kind of sampling that I feel is so criti­cal," he said. 
Deloitte 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame." 
The commitment will bring the firm's endowment fund in Notre Dame's Department of Accounting to $800,000. The Deloitte & Touche Endowed Fund in Accounting is used to support research, curriculum development and other activi­ties of the department's faculty and students. 
The Deloitte & Touche commitment represents the firm's participation in the Uni­versity's $41 7 million Strategic Moment fundraising campaign 

Theft 
continued from page 1 
two local men were arrested for theft Monday afternoon and were taken to the St. Joseph County Jail, according to Hur­ley. 
Responding to a report that a purse had been stolen from the Non-Varsity Athletics office in the Joyce ACC, officers received from a University employee a description of two suspects sMn in the area shortly before the theft had been discovered. 
The purse, from which some items were missing, was found in men's restroom near Gate 10 of the JACC. 
The description of the sus­pects was broadcast over Secu­rity's radio system and the two suspects, ages 18 and 20, were discovered and arrested near the Lewis Hall bus shelter. 
The suspects were in posses­sion not only of property from the purse, but also of two stolen book bags containing items reported stolen from the South Dining Hall and from the Bookstore. 

Kool 
continued from page 1 
Lavelle. 
Lavelle is currently attempt­ing to contact the manufactur­ers of Kool Aid and request money for postage. 


Maya 
continued from page 1 
This type of love will allow a person to ask the question "Am I worth it?" said Angelou. She said this is a question everyone has asked themselves and must continue to ask. 
In addition to being an au­thor, Angelou is also a dancer and a singer. She told the story of how she toured Europe with a group that performed "Porgy and Bess." She was a dancer and was in the chorus and had no formal training as a singer. The group did a concert in North Africa at which Angelou performed a spiritual she had learned in church. She said the local Arabs were very receptive. 

Friday, December 7, 1990 

Book compares Persian Gulf to Pearl Harbor 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The attack on Pearl Harbor 49 years ago today was linked more closely than commonly believed to Japan's thirst for secure oil supplies, according to a new book that draws haunting parallels to the Persian Gulf crisis. 
In "The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money and Power," pub­lished this week, author Daniel Yergin called oil the "linchpin" of Japan's strategy for Asian conquest and the trigger for its stunning attack on Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941. 
The assault on the U.S. Pacific Fleet killed 2,335 American servicemen and 68 civilians. 
Yergin 's book, which was seven years in the making, cites the Pacific campaign as one of many examples from the 20th century of oil's crucial and painful role in global and re­gional conflict. It draws paral­lels to the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, calling it a high-stakes gamble by a militaristic ruler bent on capturing new oil wealth in order to widen his re­gional domination. 
Saddam Hussein, like Japan's leaders five decades earlier, coveted oil and gave in to "the inevitable and irresistible temp­tation to grasp for its rewards," Yergin writes. 
Historians for years have drawn a connection between oil and Japan's Indochina cam­paigns. Yergin, however, says oil not only played a central role in the broader Japanese war strategy but also was the driving force behind Operation Hawaii, as the Japanese mili­tary called the Pearl Harbor plan. 
Yergin, an international oil specialist and president of the consulting firm Cambridge En­ergy ·Research Associates, ar­gues that the militaristic Japanese leaders saw oil -in particular. Japan's lack of indigenous supplies -as a vul­nerability that could spoil their imperialistic ambitions in Asia. 
"They went to war over oil," Yergin said in an interview. 
So worried was Adm. Isoroku Yamamoto, commander-in-chief of Japan's Combined Fleets, about insecure oil supplies to power his ships that he even sponsored experiments by a "scientist" who claimed he could change water to oil, Yer­gin writes. Japan also consid­ered sinking large sums into a crash program to produce syn­thetic fuel from coal, although this never yielded results. 
Yergin concludes that Japan's main focus in the Asia cam­paigns was to secure access to the oil fields of Borneo and the Dutch East Indies, now Indone­sia. At the time, Japan got 80 percent of its oil from the United States, and it feared the consequences of a possible American cutoff of supplies. 
U.S. asks NATO allies to lend more help against Iraq 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) ­The United States asked its NATO allies Thursday for more help transporting, equipping and reinforcing the multina­tional force in the Persian Gulf, officials said. 
U.S. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney was joined by Tom King, his British counterpart, in welcoming the help given so far and urging the North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies to provide still more. 
The two officials made the appeals during the first day of a two-day session of NATO de­fense ministers. 
Officials said Cheney also told the ministers a post-Cold War NATO should focus on four po­tential threats to its security: the Soviet Union as Europe's largest military power, political instability in Eastern Europe, the spread of chemical arms and ballistic missiles in the Middle East and threats to Western supplies of energy. 
King told reporters Britain 

wants its allies to provide more ammunition, medical equipment and staff, chemical warfare gear, ships and planes to transport troops to the gulf. 
A senior Cheney aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the United States did not present a detailed list of its needs nor did it ask for an immediate response. 
However, the aide said Cheney cited "categories" of assistance that other officials described as air and sealift help and protec­tive gear for chemical warfare. He also said, "The United States would welcome such additional support as the allies could supply," including troops. 
The aide said several nations "indicated considerable ways in which they might offer addi­tional support." But there were no details. 
The United States has almost 300,000 troops in the gulf re­gion. About 100,000 more U.S. troops are now being sent, and Britain is bringing its deploy­ment to 30,000 over the next few weeks. 
A NATO official termed "very good news" an Iraqi an­nouncement Thursday that President Saddam Hussein had called for releasing all foreign hostages. The release could be­gin as early as Saturday and is hoped to be completed by Christmas, Iraqi officials said. 
However, the NATO official, speaking on condition of anonymity, also said Iraq "must 
completely  withdraw  from  
Kuwait  and  restore  the  
legitimate government."  

On other matters, the defense ministers reviewed work on a new NATO defense strategy to reflect the dramatic changes in East-West relations. 
The Cheney aide said the de­fense secretary told the allies NATO no longer faced a "single threat" but a combination of dangers, especially from an un­stable Eastern Europe and tur­bulent Middle East. 
"Quite clearly the scale and nature of the threat has changed, but there are consid­erable ... instabilities remain­ing, not least the rise of na­tionalism" in Eastern Europe, said King, the British minister. 

The new defense strategy, to be adopted next year, will stress greater reliance on smaller, more flexible multina­tional forces. It will also commit the NATO allies to con­tinue relying on a mix of con­ventional and nuclear arms and to maintain a U.S. military presence in Europe, though at a sharply reduced level. 
Officials said discussions con­tinued about whether NATO should operate as an alliance outside its own territory, a politically sensitive issue in many allied capitals. 
German Defense Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said a consensus had emerged to rid Europe of short-range nuclear weapons. 
rr~tt~ ~ ~~ PANCAKE ) ~~~~g .-,:~~I. HOUSE STUDENTS -tr~ ~fluwud tFOR 25 YEARS~ ) .~ LUNCH SPECIAL DECEMBER Mon.-Fri. SPECIAL All Month All Month Apple PancakesFree Hot Soup With Any $JOOSandwich OFF Purchase No Coupon Needed Open 7 Days A Week HRPPY At 6:30A.M. HOLID.II.YSI U.S. 31 North In Ro•eland (Acrosa From The.Hollday Inn) 272-7433  



A Masterful Thriller. JAMES CAAN
MISERY [Rl KATHY BATES 
5:00-7:15 -9:45 
Friday, December 7, 1990 


NO folk choir to record new album 

Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Folk Choir will join voices next month with the Cistercian monks of Gethsemani Abbey in Trappist, Ky., to produce a recording of sacred music. 
The recording, "A Companion to Prayer," will include eight compositions of Rev. Chryso­gonous Waddell, director of music for the monks of Geth­semani. Readings from the works of Thomas Merton, the poet, essayist, literary critic, photographer, hermit and Gethsemani's best known monk. will be interspersed among the musical pieces. 
Entrenched 
The project is unprecedented in its combination of a monastic choir with a collegiate ensemble, according to Steven Warner, director of Notre Dame's Folk Choir. 
"Because of this," Warner said, "it will bring together a unique sound including the Abbey's male chant and the Folk Choir's full four-part harmony, guitar, organ, flute, harp and violin." 
Warner said that the record­ing will begin at Gethsemani in January and be completed at Notre Dame. He anticipates that it will be made available to the public by mid-April. 


WASHINGTON (AP) -William Black, a blunt-spoken savings and loan regulator, once prompted financier Charles Keating Jr. to write, "Kill him dead." 
Lawyers for the so-called Keating Five senators did not go that far, but they clearly were unhappy with Black's tes­timony Wednesday before the Senate Ethics Committee. 
Black offered the most dra­matic and damaging testimony so far in the panel's hearings into allegations that the sena­tors improperly intervened with S&L regulators on behalf of Keating, a financial contributor. 
"It is the most fundamental smear," declared William Tay­lor, attorney for Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif. 
Black, a red-bearded senior attorney with the federal gov­ernment's thrift regulatory agency, was returning to the witness stand today for more cross-examination by the de­fense lawyers. 
After hearing Black on 
Wrecked Plane 

Campesinos from the northern El Salvadoran town of La Laguna view the remains of an El Salvador military AC-47 airplane shot down by a ground-to-air missile fired by the FMLN guerrilla group Tuesday morning. Two pilots were killed, one survived and a fourth crew member was missing. 
Keating senators hurt by Black testimony 
pressured regulators to help Keating's Lincoln Savings and Loan. 
And he raised new allega­tions, saying that pressure by the senators prompted the Fed­eral Home Loan Bank Board to delay and relax regulatory con­trols on Irvine, Calif.-based Lincoln, which subsequently was taken over by the govern­ment. 
The result, Black said, was greater losses -which taxpay­ers eventually must bear ­than otherwise would have oc­curred. 
"This ... is probably the worst institution in America, and in­stead of people trying to help bring it under control, five U.S. senators were pushing us in the opposite direction," he testified. 
None of the five senators was present for Black's testimony. Besides Cranston, they are Re­publican John McCain of Ari­zona and Democrats Dennis DeConcini of Arizona, John Glenn of Ohio and Donald Riegle of Michigan. 
Wednesday, the Ethics Commit­tee disclosed it had voted to grant limited use immunity to compel the testimony of James Grogan, the former top aide and lobbyist for Keating. 
The panel met in private for two hours today, and afterward said Grogan would produce subpoenaed documents in an executive session next Wednesday and undergo ques­tioning again on Monday, Dec. 
17. The new schedule will ex­tend the schedule of he public hearings, now in their 13th day, and leave the date of their con­clusion further in doubt. 
Sen. Warren Rudman, R-N.H., the committee's vice chairman, said Grogan would be ques­tioned in public after the execu­tive sessions. The senators un­der investigation will be ques­tioned in public session after Grogan's appearance, Rudman said, meaning the hearings may run until close to Christmas. 
Black, in his first day on the witness stand, supported ear­lier testimony that the senators 
Iraqi soldiers, occupying trench fortifications on the southern front during the Iran-Iraq war, are believed to be digging-in with a similar tactic as the gulf crisis continues. 

Excel with us! 
Critical Care 
Nurse Internship 


Program 
Mayo Medical Center, Rochester, Minnesota 
At Mayo Medical Center, you'll find a commitment to excellence in the nursing profession as well as in patient care. 
We offer you: 
• 
Six month paid internship program -beginning in January and luly 

• 
Salary starting at $28,800 (annual rate)


di}... 
~ • Rotation through five of Mayo's ten dynamic, advanced critical care units 
• 
Individualized orientation and instruction 

• 
Clinical Preceptorship 

• 
BCLS (and option of future ACLS) certification 

• 
Technologically advanced practice environment 


Application Deadlines 
For july :january 1, 1991 
For more information, contact 
Mayo Medical Center 
Nursing Recruitment P.O. Box 6057, Rochester, MN 55903-6057 ,fib Phone 1-800-247-8590 or ~ 507-255-4314 
An Aiiirm,lfive Act•cliVfqu,lf Opportunity Employer 

Watch Out! 
December 8th is the Birthday of a Very Important Person 
Jlappy 'Birtfufay, 9fugliie! 
Brendan, Tony, Skip, Mike, and Bill. 
SOMEBUNNY 

LOVES YOU! 

Mom, Dad, Katie, Doug, and The Critters 




Correction 
Composer Aaron Copland died on Sunday, Dec. 2, not Aaron Copeland as was incorrectly stated in The Observer on Dec. 4. The Observer regrets the error. 
P.I.M.E. MISSIONARIES 

Fulfilling one's life through a missionary vocation 
~ 

The Pontifical Institute for Foreign Missions (the PIME MissionarieS) is an international com­munity of CathOlic priests and laymen who make a lifelong commitment to continuing the miSSion of Jesus Christ in the modem world. We live the Gospel in Banglade8h, Brazil. Hong Kong, India. Japan, Myanmar, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Wast Africa among the poor and unchurched. 
Founded In Italy In 1850. a group of dioce­san prieslll, at the encouragement of their bishops, grew in their underStanding of juSt pre­cisely what God was calling them to be. A mis­sionary must be open to dialogue, prayer and seHiess service, especially to the poor. The mis­sionary must learn hOW to be a aign of shared faith between well established European and American local churches and peoples where the Church is just beginning. The missionary must know how to announce the KingdOm of God while being a lOree for transformation of those societal values which do not build up that KingdOm. 
11 you are a young man between 18 and 35. in good health and spirits, excited to live your faith in the missionary way described above. send in or call lor information today. 
Fr. John J. lhJka 
PIME MISSIONARIES 
35750 Moravian Dr. 
FRASER. MICHIGAN 48026 
Phone (313) 781·2100 

The Observer Friday, December 7, 1990
page 6 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Christmas bazaar 
Saint Mary's students Katherine Schenkelberg, left, and Colleen Gorman, center. look through items for sale in the Christmas bazaar being held in the LeMans Hall lobby. Today is the last day of the bazaar. 
Woman sentenced for Capitol bombing 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Leftist radical Laura Whitehorn re­ceived a 20-year sentence Thursday for bombing the U.S. Capitol and conspiring to set ofT seven other explosions that a prosecutor called acts of ter­rorism. 
Whitehorn was sentenced along with co-defendant Linda Sue Evans, who was ordered to serve five years for her role in the bombing conspiracy after completing a 35-year term she is already serving for illegally buying firearms. 
The two women, who pleaded guilty in a plea bargain Sept. 7, were sentenced by U.S. District Judge Harold Greene at a pro­ceeding punctuated by the cheers and applause of sup­porters who packed the court­room. 
"You have committed acts of violence which are not excused by good purposes or political purposes," Greene said. "The effect of these kinds of violence are just as devastating to the victims and to society at large as if they were motivated by greed." 
"The defendants Linda Evans and Laura Whitehorn are ter­rorists," Assistant U.S. Attorney Margaret Ellen told the judge. "They are people who by their actions have sought to coerce others by means of threats or violence." 
The Nov. 7, 1983 bomb blast that blew a hole in the wall out­side the Senate chamber and the explosions at seven other locations in Washington and New York City "were not sym­bolic gestures; they were dis­tinct acts of terrorism," Ellen said. 
"Only chance prevented seri­ous harm" to people, she said. 
Over boos of the defendants' supporters, she said, "The gov­ernment has not and does not view these actions as political crimes." 
Evans' involvement in the bombing conspiracy was part of "a pattern of escalating vio­lence" that includes a 1987 conviction for buying firearms and ammunition, Ellen said. 
FBI agents who raided a Bal­timore apartment where Whitehorn and Evans, 43, Jived found components for more bombs and written plans to set ofT explosives at other locations. 

Whitehorn, 45, who raised her right fist to greet support­ers as she entered the court­room, described her involve­ment in what she called a radi­cal struggle against racism, militarism and oppression of poor people. 
"This government put us in a difficult position of choosing between morality and the law," Whitehorn. 
"How did Martin Luther King achieve progress without vio­lence?" Greene asked at one point during the proceeding. 
"The struggle of Martin Luther King is not divorced from other struggles that because of necessity had incorporated violence," said defense attorney Nkechi Taifi. "This whole country is built upon violence," the lawyer said, evoking cheers and applause from the crowd. 



Iraq promises to release hostages 
SANTIAGO, Chile (AP) ­President Bush on Thursday welcomed Iraq's surprise promise to free all foreign hostages but said the United States must not relax its war footing in the Persian Gulf. "We've got to continue to keep the pressure on," he said. 
In Washington, Secretary of State James Baker III said Iraq had told the United States that all 900 Americans held in Iraq and Kuwait would be released. And Iraqi Ambassador Mo­hamed Al-Mashat said he hoped all hostages would be out by Christmas. 
The State Department said the Voice of America was broadcasting a message Thursday night saying, "We are making preparations to evacu­ate all U.S. citizens as soon as they are permitted to leave." 
Bush, citing the promised re­lease of the hostages and the easing of Iraq's pressure on the American Embassy in Kuwait, said, "It seems to be a little movement here, a little move­ment there," 
Yet, he said, Saddam Hussein still "must leave Kuwait without reservation, without condition." 
Bush spoke at a news confer­ence at the next-to-last stop of his five-nation South American tour while Baker, 5,000 miles away, testified before Congress to win support for a possible military strike against Iraqi forces. 
Baker said of Saddam's an­nouncement, "It seems to me no coincidence that this comes just one week, just one week, after the international com­munity has authorized the use of force." 
The Iraqi ambassador, on the other hand, said thP release would be risky for his country because "the drums of war" were still beating in the United States. 
Asked when the release would come, he said, "I expect it's going to be within days. Of course I cannot now tell how long it will take to provide all the necessary things for departure but I hope that they will be all of them out for Christmas." 
Officials in Baghdad said the hostages could begin leaving on Saturday. 
White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said, "We will do everything that's humanly possible to see that they get out as quickly as possible." 
The dramatic move -if car­ried out could well strengthen demands in Congress that Bush allow more time for sanctions to work be­fore resorting to force. 
Facing Baker at a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing, Rep. Lee Hamilton, D­Ind., asked, "Why should we not wait for this policy of sanctions, diplomacy and putting in place a credible mili­tary force ... to work?" 
"What is working," Baker re­spondPd, "is that we are begin­ning finally to get the clear message across to Saddam Hussein.... If we want a peace­ful solution, it should be crystal clear to them that force is not going to be ruled out as an op­tion." 

:··········t~·~··~··~··tt•••········
SPRINu tsRt:AI\. '91 : 







~ACAPULCO~ 
8 
9
1

:FROM $459. 0Q tJ'"";" ¥1 : 
(!}/". 

: MARCH 11-17, 1991 9q.f:~, : 
• Air & Hotel PLUS, PLUS...... * : from CHICAGO on AMERICAN AIRLINES : 
: FOR MORE INFORMATION -~ : 

: BOB AT 1-800-875-4525 : 
: LIMITED SPACE ... CALL TODAY!! : 
............................~~~... 
1991 NOTRE DAME CPA REVIEW INFORMATION MEETING TUESDAY DECEMBER 11,1990 7:00 P.M. 122 HAYES-HEALY CENTER • Jim Ward will be available for questions • Registrations will be taken • 1991 Schedule of Classes will be distributed • Refreshments will be served For further information contact: Executive Programs: 239-5285  


Friday, December 7, 1990 
DUNLAP, Ind. (AP) -Neither snow nor sleet nor storm of night will keep mail carriers from their appointed rounds. Dogs apparently are another matter. 
A very large Siberian husky wandered into an Elkhart mail truck through an open sliding door Wednesday afternoon while the carrier was making deliveries on foot along U.S. 33 in Dunlap. 
The mailman tried to entice the dog out of the truck, to no avail. Having never seen the animal before, the mailman was reluctant to remove it bod­ily. So he called the Elkhart County Humane Shelter. 
The dog was removed, although the superintendent of operations at the Elkhart Post Office said the 120-pound dog got a little mean when a worker from the animal shelter re­moved it from the van. 

The Observer page 7 
Food aid pours into the U.S.S.R. 
MOSCOW (AP) -While gov­
ernment officials squabbled 
Thursday over who was to 
blame for Moscow's food 
shortages, a Soviet Foreign 
Ministry spokesman reported 
that humanitarian aid from 
abroad had topped $160 mil­
lion. 
But if Western nations really 
want Muscovites to have a 
happy holiday season, they 
should send empty bottles. A 
shortage of the glass containers 
threatens to leave the city 
without vodka, wine and cham­
pagne to toast the NewYear. 
In the latest round of finger­pointing over shortages in Moscow that have raised fears of a hungry winter, authorities from regions that supply the capital with meat, milk and other foodstuffs denied they are withholding stocks. 
There is "no need to start a witch-hunt where there are no witches," said V. Syrovatko, an official of the Bryansk region southwest of Moscow, in an in­terview published in Thursday's Sovietskaya Rossiya newspaper. 

Last month, Moscow Deputy Mayor Sergei Stankevich ac­cused the regions of Bryansk, Penza and other areas of violat­ing delivery contracts to the capital. 
A. Kovlyagin, executive committee chairman of the Penza regional council, said his region fulfilled its delivery plans by 97 percent the past 10 months. He said Penza supplied 
18.087 metric tons of meat, of the contracted 19,463 metric tons, and either surpassed or nearly met all its dairy con­tracts, the newspaper reported. 
The neighboring Tver region sent 347 metric tons of meat to Moscow, exceeding the state 
plan of 275 metric tons, Soviet­
skaya Rossiya said. 
Kovlyagin blamed any short­
ages on Moscow city officials 
for failing to establish contact 
with regional authorities, it re­
ported. 
Moscow's milk supply is down 
15 to 20 percent the last 11 
months, Soviet television re­
ported Thursday. It said 20,000 
metric tons of powdered milk is 
being sent to the capital. 
Soviet officials say food pro­
duction is no lower than last 
year, including a record grain 
harvest this year. Many blame 
barren store shelves on a 
crumbling distribution system 
and panicked consumers. 
Many regions halted ship­ments of food and consumer goods to other areas to protest Kremlin policies. Rather than obey central government de­mands for food deliveries to the cities at state prices they con­sider too low, farmers are trading directly with factories and other consumers for other scarce supplies. 
Aid from abroad kept arriving Thursday. The second of two Israeli jetliners filled with fruit, vegetables, medicine and 15 metric tons of powdered milk arrived in Moscow Thursday night. 

The powdered milk was trucked from the airport to Khimkenskaya Hospital in Moscow and to Soltikovsky Children's Home outside the city, officials said. 
About 20 metric tons of food arrived Thursday from the United States, Tass said, with­out specifying who sent it. Len­ingrad received more than 12 metric tons and Moscow 17 metric tons from Germany, Tass said. 
More shipments were an­
nounced from Norway and 
Germany on Thursday, officials 
in those countries said. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman 
Vitaly Churkin told a briefing 
$160 million worth of food has 
been sent to this country or is 
in the pipeline. He said govern­
ments and charitable organiza­
tions from 21 nations have 
promised or delivered aid. 
Tass said any information 
about distribution of foreign 
food aid may be directed to the 
government commission re­
sponsible for overseeing the 
shipments, headed by Deputy 
Prime Minister Lev Voronin. 
By Dec. 15, more than 200,000 food parcels, each weighing 22 pounds, will start arriving here, containing such items as milk, macaroni, meat, vegetables and fruit, Churkin said. 
Churkin said Spain, Italy, France and Canada offered fi­nancial aid for food purchases, and negotiations are under way with Austria, Britain, Australia, Greece, South Korea, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Iran. 
He praised Tuesday's com­ments in Britain by former President Ronald Reagan, who called Mikhail Gorbachev a "friend in need" and said the West must offer assistance. 
But the newspaper Moskovskaya Pravda said Moscow's latest need is empty bottles -half-liter containers, preferably -to hold holiday spirits. 
The city faces a "dry" New Year because consumers are not returning empties, though stores now pay about 90 cents a bottle, more than twice the usual price. 

You are invited to an * Autograph Party 



GOD COUNTRY: NOTRE DAME 

Fr. Hesburgh ~ill be at the Notre DaJDe Bookstore Friday · Dee. 7 th from 2:30 to 4:00 
First Floor of Bookstore 
Friday, December 7, 1990


BOWL Orange Bowl Rose Bowl Sugar Bowl Fiesta Bowl Cotton Bowl Citrus Bowl Gator Bowl 
·-John Hancock Bowl 
:~· .... ;..: . 

Blockbuster Bowl
··:'7~\ 

Holiday Bowl 
~ 
. 
.:t·'

OPPONENTS Notre Dame vs Colorado Washington vslowa Virginia vs Tennessee Louisville vs Alabama Texas vs Miami Georgia Tech vs Nebraska Michigan vs Mississippi Michigan State vs USC Florida State vs Penn State BYU vs Texas A&M 

NO PENALTY FOR CLIPPING! 
Ir--------------------------------------, r--------------------------------------, r--------------------------------------,
SUNDAY : EARLY I I I I 
I 2 Large Pizzas
DOUBLE FEATURE WEEK SPECIAL 
I I l Topping I $10.95
$5.99 $4.99 
Get 2 Large Original Pizzas
Get 2small Original pizzas 1tith the topping of your Get !large Original pizza with your favorite choke for only s;.99. \"alid Suncfal·s only. topping for only $4.99 Valid Mondays! Tuesdays only. with the topping of your choice. 
. 
hpirr; 121311'10 · £\pur~ l!tUNO hpirrs 121311'111 

• ® . • ® ; ®


II II II
v..., 01 .....-.-only llol vilid ·::::::--. Pnces ~vary Cull-poys Vahdat parhopatmo stores only Not • I any other otters Pncei may vary Cus:omer pays
....,", '"""'==oo~...= ..,....:.::;:::!'~ dr!Wf1canyloss sales Ia• t'/here apohcab~ Oehver, areas hmtled to ensure sate dnvmg Our dr111ers c.trry less va~~~~ ~~~.~~:;~~P~~~;~~ on~.!~ ~~~~s~·f~~~J~~~~~~r~e~te ~r~~~9ma0u~a~r:~s~~~vs 
than S20 00 Our drtvers are not penalized lor late dt>ltvenes 
than S20 00 Our dnvers are not penallzeO lor late dell .-trieS 
--------------------------------------~ L-------------------------------------­Call us! Notre Dame 271-0300 Im~ulhBendJ.e 289-0033 816 
-~ ~

-. .. .. . . -... .. . . -. ' ••••• ·····--------..--------,.,.,.,.-1.'9......... -..... '*2.......................-:"4 .. 
Friday, December 7, 1990 page 9
The Observer 

New contraceptive to be approved soon by F.D.A. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Federal approval is expected soon for a new contraceptive implant for women that would provide protection against pregnancy for up to five years, government and industry sources say. 
Approval of Norplant would mark the most important birth control advance since oral con­traceptives and the intrauterine device, or IUD. It would be the first long-acting, hormonal contraceptive available in the United States. 
The Norplant method involves implanting six silicone rubber capsules, each about the size of a wooden matchstick, in a woman's upper arm. The cap­sules contain a contraceptive hormone that is released slowly over time. 
The capsules are implanted in a minor surgical procedure, and the contraceptive effects are reversed immediately with removal. 
"It's another major option for American women because it's long acting and yet it's re­versible," said Sandra Wald­man. a spokeswoman for The Population Council in New York. which began researching 


··the Dest. 
FREE TANNING 
WITH EVERY PACKAGE PURCHASE! 
WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED TIME! EXPIRES 10 DAYS AFTER PUBLICATION CALL TODAY 
272-7653 
FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23 UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
Accidental Death of an Anarchist 
An outrageous satirical comedy by Dario Fo Adapted by Richard Nelson 
Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
Washington Hall 
Wednesday, December 5-8:10p.m. Thursday, December 6-8:10p.m. Friday, December 7-8:10p.m. Saturday, December 8-8:10p.m. Sunday, December 9-3:10p.m. 
Tickets: $7.00 Students/Senior Citizens: $5.00 (Wed.. Thu. and Sun.) 
Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Ticket Office 
MasterCardNisa orders call 239-8128 
Groups call 239-5956 
the method 24 years ago. 
"It's also a good substitute for sterilization for women who have completed their families, but also good for women who cannot use estrogen. IUDS, women who are breast feed­ing," she said. "Its a major ex­pansion of options." 
The contraceptive has been approved in 16 countries, she said. 
Approval by the Food and Drug Administration could come within days, said the sources, who spoke on the con­dition of anonymity. 
In the United States, it would be marketed by Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories of Philadelphia. 
Norplant contains nothing new -the silicone rubber and the hormone, levonorgestrel. have been used for many years. according to the council's liter­ature. However, the delivery over a long period of time is a new technique. 
A Food and Drug advisory board recommended approval of Norplant in April 1989, say­ing the method was at least as safe and effective as any other contraceptive on the market. 


simplY, 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Santa's helpers 
Senior Dave Schmidt and junior Colleen Timons trim the Christmas tree in LaFortune Students Center in preparation for a visit from Santa Claus. Students are invited to take photographs with Saint Nicholas between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. in LaFortune. 

~ ~ '~· ~ '~· "-~ ~ '~· "-~ 
r~:.M~...~...~:.-~~".-~ ~'~...:J'~'·JI .....,#...:;., 

Bush doubts January summit 
SANTIAGO, Chile (AP) ­
President Bush on Thursday 
cast doubt on prospects for a 
January summit in Moscow 
with Soviet President Mikhail 
Gorbachev, and sources said 
the meeting might slip to 
February. 
The Persian Gulf crisis is one 
reason for the uncertain timing, 
said White House press 
secretary Marlin Fitzwater. 
"It's not an easy time to be 
traveling." he said, referring to 
the Jan. 15 deadline set in a 
U.N. resolution authorizing force against Iraq unless it withdraws from Kuwait. 
Both the United States and 
Soviet Union are unsettled 
about summit timing, Fitzwater 
said. 
"I think we're saying, let's 
wait a little bit longer before we 
set a date," he added. 
Bush said at a Santiago news 
conference that plans for a 
meeting next month were "not 
totally" abandoned. Asked if the 
trip were being canceled, he 
replied, "Not as far as I'm con­
cerned." 
Sources said January was the target date for the trip but that scheduling difficulties and lo­gistical problems had cropped up. "As a result, it's possible it could slip to February," one source said, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity. 
Bush has said he would like to visit Moscow early next year, but has insisted that his trip be linked with the signing of a U.S.-Soviet treaty to slash long­range nuclear weapons. 
A White House advance team was supposed to have left for Moscow in mid-December to begin planning for Bush's visit, but the trip was unexpectedly called otT. One source familiar with Bush's schedule said it showed no foreign travel in January. 
Fitzwater said the advance trip was put otT because of the lack of a date for Bush's visit. He said Jan. 6 had been men­tioned as one possibility, and that mid-January had been an­other. 
"It's all tied to the START (nuclear arms negotiations) treaty," he said. 
As president, Bush has held summits with Gorbachev in Washington, Malta and Helsinki. The two leaders met for more than two hours in Paris last month during a 34­nation summit on the future of Europe after the Cold War. 
CHRISTMAS AROUND 
THE  WORLD  1 90  ....... ~.....  
TODAY'S SCHEDULE: !RESIDE CHAT: NOON AFRICAN-AMERICAN  l PM  

TRADITION OF KWANSAA LUNCH WILL BE PROVIDED ISO LOUNGE, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE TODAY: SANTA PICTURES IN THE LAFORTUNE LOBBY FROM lPM TO 3PM 
'{ :r 




Viewpoint 
Friday, December 7, 1990
a e 10 




P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager .............lisa Eaton Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 



II MV NNI£ IS SAM AND I'M AN OILMOL/C." 
LETTERS 


Justice, not ad hoc hypocrisy, needed for ND minorities 
By Sean Scanlon to (hopefully) be included in Du letters from angry priests and Hesburgh with a list of Black Power is the result of the 
Lac next year. This was impres­bishops around the country "demands" on areas like in­black man's perception that he 
The other day, while I was sive because the history of who called for Notre Dame to creased black enrollment (10 no longer wanted to be loved by eating dinner in North Dining black students at Notre Dame is end its hypocrisy, including the percent by 1972). black schol­the white-what he wanted was Hall, I was fortunate enough to full of direct action in con­transcript of a speech to this arship funds, black recruiters, justice-that is he wanted begin an interesting fronting the Administration to effect given at Notre Dame by black counselors, increased power to protect his own inter­conversation with a junior from deal with their unique triple Monsignor John A. Ryan, the black faculty and black culture ests in a way that did not con­Pasquerilla West. Any onlooker minority status as black, few in most prominent 20th Century studies. These requests were tinue to depend on the good will would think that I was just number and mainly non­Catholic activist prior to delivered the week after black of whites. For good will is no scamming, but something much Catholic. Dorothy Day. students protested the home less tyrannical than bad will in deeper was on my mind. I had football game vs. Georgia Tech its continued control of the spent the day in the library Notre Dame had not allowed After the admission of a token as the rest of the student body other. The black man discov­researching the history of civil black students until 1944, when number of blacks throughout jeered and yelled racial slurs. ered that there is not greater rights and the Black Student one local South Bend minister the 1950's and mid-60's, the enemy to his people than the Movement at the University of was enrolled and two veterans hypocrisy began to hit home. The AAS was serious and did white liberal attempt at loving Notre Dame during the 1960's, were "assigned" here. Prior to With Father Hesburgh on the not just want an encouraging reconciliation, for such recon­and this junior from P.W. hap­this, the archives from the government's Civil Rights pat on the back. They further ciliation comes without destroy­pened to be black. It is not often 1930's and early 1940's are full Commission urging swift and stressed their determination by ing the structural racism of our that my history research can of letters of qualified, energetic, valid desegregation, it seemed a threat to disrupt the nation­society. Moreover, the black relate so directly with my daily idealistic, Catholic students who the message to both black and ally-televised home basketball man has learned that there is 
experiences, so I did not miss were denied admission with a white Notre Dame students was game the following week vs. no more destructive love than this chance to discuss some standard copy of letter by NO's "Do as I say, not as I do." But, UClA With this threat hanging the white man's need of the issues of black Notre Dame President Cavanaugh. In confronted by the new Afro­over his head, Hesburgh an­"negro cause" to insure the students which I had come essence, it said "Thanks for American Society, founded in nounced the formation of an ad white man's moral identity and across earlier in the day. your interest, you are qualified 1967, Father Hesburgh was hoc committee the next day, to assuage his guilt." Give the and wanted here, but we faced with a choice-act or be just in time to avoid disruption. minority student an avenue for I found out that she is active cannot accept you for fear of acted upon, or, in the words of justice, the same justice which 
in the NAACP here on campus upsetting our Southern Stokley Carmichail, "Change, or Coincidentally, there was also the University itself is bragging and that they had introduced a students, yours in Christ...etc." we'll change you." an ad hoc committee formed about, through increasing mi­proposal to the Administration last year to draft a harassment nority enrollment. for a racial harassment policy These archives are also full of The AAS presented Father policy so minority students can 
have an effective channel for Conservative critics could call 
response to racial incidents. this need for a Du Lac addition
Breen Phillips implements 24-hour Detex 
The University is increasing "a serious concession to the minority enrollment once again, left," as they did when thus bringing more and more Hesburgh appointed Bayard

system to avoid unsafe incidents 
black, Hispanic and foreign Rusin as Notre Dame's first students into an environment of black trustee in 1969. Some will predominantly white, upper­even say that our Christian Dear Editor: tern, however, will only run season approaches and stu­middle class Catholics (like my­character and community can through the end of the semester dents are purchasing gifts and self and the Administration) handle this without the rule. 
The staff at Breen Phillips and will be reviewed by all of tickets for travel. who will always smile for Perhaps we could. But I would Hall has decided to implement our residents in January. equality but rarely empower for also like to remind all Notre a 24-hour Detex system We believe that it is our re­justice. And justice is what is Dame students of Pope Paul VI's through the end of the This decision was made in re­sponsibility to inform the com­needed now. The minorities words, "If you want peace, semester. We realize that this action to various attacks and munity of this temporary need this now, here at NO, be­work for justice." The history of action will prove an inconve­unwanted visits within the resi­change in hall policy. cause more paternalistic child black students is especially nience not only to the women of dence halls that have unfortu­hugging is not going to work in important to the Administra­Breen Phillips, but also to other nately occurred on campus re­our increasingly mixed family. tion, so they know minorities members of the Notre Dame cently. Our intention is for pre­Hall Staff need empowerment, not ad hoc community who wish to visit vention of such an occurrence Breen Phillips Hall Perhaps Notre Dame should committees. our residents and will now have in Breen Phillips, especially as Dec. 3, 1990 listen to the insightful words of Sean Scanlon is a senior his­to use the phone in the front students' rooms become more one of its own, Stanly tory and theology major. lobby to be admitted. This sys-attractive as the Christmas Hauerwas: "The emergence of 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
PJUI.-, THAT UJAS 7Hff M05TAMAZ­50 ''RcAJ? A CRY FOR
YeAH,

ING PERFORM­MY UPS" HfiP. IT'S 50
8UTUJ&

ANCe I'Ve NAS ... OBVIOUS NOW.
5HOUW
l3V&R. 5!!£N, 
HAV&5e/3N 
\
I 
ITt:OMI/IK3.,. 

I \ 
'Anybody who can still do at 60 what he was doing at 20 wasn't doing much at 20.' 
Jimmy Townsend 
Friday, December 7, 1990 page 11


Viewpoint 
LETTERS 


Criticism of 'propaganda' reveals patriarchal position 
Dear Editor: 
Cluelessness is one of those privileges that only those in­vested in existing power struc­tures can afford. I am referring to the self-unconsciousness of Edward D. O'Connor, C.S.C. (The Observer, Nov. 29) In his diatribe against the "two­pronged-assault from women and homosexuals." O'Connor deplores the "systematic pro­pagandizing of a single view­point," which, in his fourth and fifth paragraphs (and then obliquely), he identifies as sup­port for the ordination of women and dissent from the Church's position on homosex­uality. 
The arrogance of his own choice of labels ("The Church") reveals the hegemony all his alarmism and omission cannot conceal and all our efforts can­not seem to topple. If O'Connor truly believes that a single semester's semi-responsible treatment of the issues sur­rounding women's and gay peoples' places in the Church hierarchy overbalances the scales so grossly weighed down by the dross of patriarchy that that precious authority structure is in danger of being un­dermined, he is living in my dream world without a clue. Would that it were so simple to topple that deadly, all-but-uni­versal evil, patriarchy. 

Is O'Connor blind to the con­stant barrage of patriarchal symbolism and rhetoric that floods this campus, the Roman Church and the world? An un­critical tour of the campus will highlight the presence of male, (celibate) heterosexuals as ideal authority figures. Facing the football stadium (in a true revelation of the priorities of this Catholic University) is the largest group of patriarchs. From ROTC building to shining ROTC building, the phallocentric and destructive focus of this campus' commitment to patriarchy is glaringly obvious. The only female authority figure around here is a gilded, eternally-virginal Mary; the phallocratic iconography and symbolism are hardly balanced by her gaudy presence. How many weekends, not to say bodies, are sacrificed on the al­tar of aggressively-heterosexual violent rituals of an over­compensating male bonding? 
Never mind. O'Connor sug­gests that if the "propaganda" were "distinctively Catholic ... [it would] ... still be regrettable, but at least understandable, at a university to whose role it be­longs to examine human topics in the light of faith." To unpack the sentence: at least if the views expressed were orthodox views of the One True Faith, the methods of propaganda would be more acceptable. Would they? And is he not begging the question as to whether the pre­sentation of the dissident views he deplores is a propagandistic presentation? Certainly he never proves that this is the case. And isn't he willfully ig­noring both the fact that ND has never satisfactorily enforced a standard of academic freedom to liberate W; classrooms from the fear of Inquisition and the fact that the atmosphere of ND, in and out of the classroom, is overwhelmingly weighted towards uncritical acceptance of patriarchal and capitalist assumptions about racial and sexual hierarchies. 
O'Connor's most offensive and propagandistic "arguments" are standard fare: he evokes the authority of the Holy Father and the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith and "The church's position on homosexuality [which] has been established and refined by many centuries of carefully reasoned theologi­cal traditions" to dismiss both the claims of women and gay people to be accorded human dignity and reasonable treat­ment by the church of patri­archy on earth. 
Lest the tired argument from authority should fail to con­vince, O'Connor then employs that staple of homophobia of every persuasion-the argu­ment from nature. Citing the "natural complementarity of man and woman" and "the rev­erence for the order of nature characteristic of Catholicism," O'Connor seeks to evoke the inaccurate stigma which a nar­row survey of animal behavior in nature raises against disap­proved social behavior (the sharing of authority by women and the freedom of gay people to express their natural orien­tation). Neither heterosexuality nor monogamy fare any better than homosexuality and promiscuity, not to mention incest and brutality, when natu­ral paradigms are taken as prescriptive for humans. 
Not only is O'Connor's charge of irresponsible propaganda, levelled against feminist and gay-sympathetic "lecture(s]. seminar[s). [etc.]," unsubstan­tiated by his argument; O'Connor reveals himself as an uncritical proponent of the propaganda of the already all­powerful structures of patri­archy. 
J. Michael Leger 
Off-campus Nov. 29, 1990 

Abortion debate helped right-to-life advocate feel secure in view 
Dear Editor: scure terminology. choice for abortion, however, by some more objective crite­cially one where so many hu­
Emotionally, I am tempted to Thursday's debate provided costs the physical life of an­rion-legal, ethical, moral or re­man lives hang in the balance. agree with Fernando some excellent examples of this. other human being, a choice of ligious. Alessaandri (The Observer, Nov. Ms. Weddington repeatedly utmost consequence. "The is­In the end, it is utterly impor­Rev. Ronald J. Wasowski 
29) when he expresses stated that a fetus is not a sue" is whether the value of fe­tant that the whole truth and Dept. ofEarth Sciences reservations about Notre Dame person, but she failed to men­tal human life is determined nothing but the truth be set Dec. 3, 1990 paying Sarah Weddington to tion that "person" is a legal and subjectively by the woman, or forth in any debate, but espe­speak on abortion precisely be­philosophical term, not a cause she was the key individ­scientific one. She never re­

GIFT an opportunity for seniors to give
ual responsible for legalizing sponded to Mr. Scheidler's the killing of nearly 30 million comment that 18 developmental unborn human beings. biology textbooks commonly 

something to future students at ND 
Intellectually, however, I used in American medical 
Dear Editor: Against Homelessness, founded dents back for on-site inter­
agree with the Student Union schools are unanimous in 
As we are quickly approach­at Harvard Law School. views, companies generallyBoard's decision to organize the asserting that a unique, living ing the end of the fall semester, Thirteen law schools and four make reservations at high­
abortion debate between Ms. human being exists from the 
it is becoming startlingly clear MBA schools have since enacted priced, luxury hotels. By optingWeddington and Joseph moment of conception. Far from that seniors don't have much similar efforts. In the short to stay at less expensive hotels, Scheidler. For me, the most im­wavering on this point, the best time left here at Notre Dame. term, the donations to GIFT will or with family or friends, theportant reason is that as current scientific research on Looking back over the past support South Bend's Center for interviewee can request that thecommitted Catholic Christians, human fetal development is few years, we can all see ways Basic Learning Skills. In the money saved by the company be we must be totally familiar with confirming it more and more. 
in which Notre Dame has en­long term, the contributions will donated to GIFT. In addition toall the relevant information and Ms. Weddington repeatedly riched each of our lives. Truly, be pooled to establish a fund to being able to book a tax-de­arguments, pro and con, on an denied that being "pro-choice" this place has given us much to increase the amount of grant­ductible donation, the prospec­
issue that simply will not go and "pro-abortion" are 
take away with us. But, at the based financial aid given to tive employer also discoversaway. This makes us both more equivalent in the context of this same time, there is also a desire Notre Dame students each year. that this potential employeeconfident of our position and debate. When I go to a to leave a little bit of ourselves Primarily, this fund will offer values community concern andbetter able to defend that posi­restaurant, I almost always behind and to give back in support to students whose fi­awareness.
tion. A debate format, in par­choose fish instead of meat. 
gratitude for what the nancial situation changes (due I would like to encourage in­ticular, provides the opportunity "Choose" always begs the University has given to us. It to a death in the family, the loss terviewing seniors to take ad­for eloquent advocates of both question "What?" In the context seems to me that each of us of a parent's job, etc.) in such a vantage of GIFT. Any questions sides to make their best positive of this debate, the answer is hopes that, in some small way, way that, were it not for the or concerns can be directed tostatement, respond to the points obviously "Abortion!" 
Notre Dame might be a little bit fund, they would be faced with either the Office of Campusmade by the other side, and Ms. Weddington also repeat­better because we have made the possibility of having to leave Ministry or to Kevin Cavanaugh, answer questions from the edly claimed that "the issue" is some positive contribution. I am Notre Dame. Clearly, GIFT the founder of GIFT, at 283­audience. whether the right to choose be­writing in support of a program offers an avenue through which 4307.
I found the debate particu­longs to the individual woman that will enable seniors to offer seniors could further their Nancy Prechtel larly important because it con­or to the government, appar­such a contribution to the Notre commitment to serving others, Pasquerilla East firmed my primary observation ently implying that "choice" is Dame family. as well as their commitment to Nov. 21, 1990about abortion advocates: they an absolute. My choice of fish 
Graduates Interviewing for Notre Dame. 
avoid the most basic facts re­over meat is of little conse­Tomorrow (GIFT) is modeled on The mechanics of GIFT are
garding abortion, either by quence, except perhaps to my a program called Students pretty simple. In calling stu­
saying nothing or by using ob-cholesterol level. A woman's 


Censorship foils founders' plans for free expression 
By Timothy Sutton 
In the course of human events, conflicts and differences of opinion are not only natural, they are inevitable. When these conflicts arise, there are gener­ally two ways of dealing with them. First. avoiding that which causes the problem or, secondly, and more controver­sially, trying to prohibit the ac­tions which cause the conflict. While there are cases when the second method can be employed by our government, prohibiting actions on the grounds of morality is completely inconsistent with our constitution. 
The founding fathers of this country took great pains to de­cide what basic human rights our government would be founded upon. In the Constitution, they included these words which made our country great: "We hold these truths to be self evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their cre­ator with certain unalienable right; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of hap­piness." 

While our rights to life and the pursuit of happiness remain relatively unchallenged, our rights to liberty and freedom are attacked almost daily in the form of censorship. The weapon used most often against this liberty is called morality. 
Morality can be defined as a system of behavior based on a standard of right and wrong. Most often the standard is de­fined by religious beliefs. While morality and religion are very good, they have absolutely no place in government and in American law. Often it is this morality that leads to conflicts and disagreements. While we are often offended by some­one's actions on a moral basis, this does not give us the right to restrict the right of the indi­vidual. Nowhere in our consti­tution is it written that we have the right not to be offended. 
Censorship is the act of con­trolling the expression, actions, or even beliefs of a group or individual. Almost always this is to appease a group that feels offended or threatened by the behavior. The purpose of our law is to protect the rights of every citizen, not to define a standard of what is right and what is not. The only time ac­tions and behavior should be controlled are when they violate the rights of other parties. It is in the case of these violations that the law must define right and wrong. Murder is not a crime because it is a sin; it is a crime because it violates the victim's right to life. Here it is the place of the government to restrict, define standards, and set punishment. 
However, using nudity in art as a form of expression is not a crime. While it may offend some, even most. of the public, it does not violate the rights of anyone. Nobody has ever been forced into a museum to view art. If you do not agree with a form of expression, it is your right to avoid it but not your right to restrict it. 
If we are to call ourselves American, we must believe that the three basic rights our gov­ernment is based upon are ab­solute. We cannot support any form of censorship in which the rights of citizens are eradicated on the basis of morality. This is not an attack on morality, but, rather, a statement that it has to remain independent of the laws which protect our rights. 
Timothy Sutton is a 1990 Graduate of the University of Notre Dame. 

DECEMBER 7-9 

weekend calendar 

y 
MUSIC Big Daddy Kinsey 3r the Kinsey Report, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. Latin music dance night, Theodore's, 9:30 p.m. 
J.D. 3r the Homewreckers, Club 23, 10 p.m. Bone Forest, Keenan Hall Basement, 11 p.m. 
Exotic Birds, Stepan Center, 7:30 -9 p.m. Tickets $3 students, $4 non-students. 
THEATER 

"Accidental Death of an Anarchlst,"Washington Hall, 
8:10p.m. Tickets $7. 
EVENTS

li.
:: 
Madrlaal Christmas Dinner~,..North Lounge, Regina Hall, 
Saint ~ary's College1 7 p.m. 1ickets $22.50. Call for reservations at 284-4711. 
Santa Pictures, LaFortune Lobby, 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 
sa 
ay 
MUSIC 

Mere Mortals, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:45p.m. 
Jester, Club 23, 10 p.m. 
Earth Jam II, Stepan Center, Generics 7 p.m., Chisel9 
p.m., XYZ Affair 1 0:30 p.m., Exit 77 midnight. Tickets $2. 
THEATER 

"Accidental Death of an Anarchlst,"Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. Tickets $7. 
EVENTS 

NAACP & BCAC joint X-mas formal, Knights of Columbus Hall, 9 p.m. -1 :45 a.m. NAACP paid members $10 couple, $7 single. Non-members $12 couple, $8 single. 
Madrigal Christmas Dinner,North Lounge, Regina Hall, Saint Mary's College, 7 p.m. Tickets $22.50. Call for reservations at 284-4711. 
DANCE 

The Nutcracker Ballet, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 7 p.m. Tickets $17.50 & $15. 
s 
y 
MUSIC 

Holiday Concert, featuring the Suzuki Talent Education of Mich1ana, Theodore's, 1 p.m. 
THEATER 

"Accidental Death of an Anarchlst,"Washington Hall, 3:1 0 p.m. Tickets $5. 
DANCE 

The Nutcracker Ballet, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 2 p.m. Tickets $17.50 &$15. 
FRIDAY 

•
"Die Hard 2,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. "Cry-Baby,"Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30p.m. 
SATURDAY 

"Die Hard 2,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 &10:30 p.m. "Cry-Baby,"Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30 & 9:30p.m. 

Cookie 
contest results 
BY COLLEEN CRONIN 
Accent Editor 

t would be a little fishy if we took it upon 
ourselves to judge our own cookies so we 
·-managed to finagle a 
few well-known students into 
tasting the fruits of our labors. 
The brave ones were Alison 
Cocks, editor in chief of The 
Observer; Rob Pasin and Fred 
Tombar, president and vice 
president of Student Govern­
ment; Erin Lavelle, Student 
Union Board Manager; and 
Karen Robinson, an All­
American candidate and guard 
for the Notre Dame women's 
basketball team. All were given 
one of each cookie and asked to 
comment on the best looking 
and the best tasting. 

In terms of looks, the candy 
cane cookies won 
unanimously-no other cookie 
had a chance. No comments 
were made about the other five, 
except that the brown-edge 
cookies looked burned instead 
of festive. 

The taste buds, though, told a different story. Three out of five judges picked the choco-nut dainties. The candy canes and the coconut macaroons each received one vote. The brown­edge cookies were voteless, as were the rum balls. This sur­prised us, seeing as how they tasted "like alcoholic Munchkins," according to Cocks. We figured those would be a big hit. 
Don't let the opinions of only five people dissuade you from any of these cookies. Most of these are family favorites, and would make for a great present to a girlfriend or boyfriend, or even to some lonely soldier 

The end result of the Observer cookie bakeoff.
sitting the Saudi desert. They get hungry, to 
cttoCO""ut DaintieS 

rpose flour 12-~ /2 cups all-pU ~/2 tSP· salt -H2 sticks) butter. 3/4 cups (~ 
softened ar 
3/4 cups sug 
~egg 'II 

~ /2 tsp. vanl a. Mini C\"lips 
~-Hers\"le'j s 

6 oz. t morsels) ·pe
(semi-swee coating (reel 
cnocolate 

follows) . . cnips . are set. 
soz Mini 'I cookies " 

un\1 wire rae". .
~/4 ~ups ~~~~rped walnuts (or ocr mpletely cool on f cookies In
2 cups 0 0
· ends d tnen ecans) to 350F. 5.) OIPe coating an ed nuts. p Preneat oven utter. sugar.' cnoco\at I ·n tne c\"'IPP fl tne 
~ .) t togetner b bowl until ·mmedlate Y 1 paper un 1 
2.) e,~avanilla in large blend in I e on wax 
Plac t nas set.
egg an ed Graduall'j cnocolate 
well-miX · It Stir 1n cnocola elate coating: "'ocolate 
C\"IOCO 6 oz. Cn \1
flour and sa . . to logs •A It togetner butter in t .e 
....·ps g\1 In d w•9 d ~/4 cups melt 1n
C"l . Snape dou. tl f\oure cnips an double broil.er (or oW·
3.~/2") on a \lgl"l Jngreased top of a ) Stir unt1l smo
(2X Place on microwave.
surface. . 
coo·~~·:,'~SoF w t2;£$1tlS1\KG 
f 
............

------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

turning motion. Decorate as desired. Bake 475 F for 8 -1 0 minutes. 
Chewy Macaroons 
1 Tablespoon all-purpose flour 
1/2 cup sugar 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
2 egg whites at room temper­ature 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 
2 cups flaked coconut 
Candied cherry halves 
Preheat oven to 325 F. Lightly grease and flour 2 large cookie sheets; set aside. 
In small bowl combine flour, sugar and salt. Mix well and set 
1 cup shorte . 

aside. In large mixer bowl beat margarine) nmg (halt b egg whites until stiff but not dry. 1 cu . Utter or 
sugar P Sifted

Beat in vanilla. Fold in dry 
confect" ingredients, then coconut. Drop 1 egg 10ners· by rounded teaspoonfuls onto 1 112 teas cookie sheets about 2 inches 1 teas Poon almo d 
2 112 Poon vanilla n extract
apart. Press candied cherry halt 
1 tea cups all-pur 

into center of each. Bake 20 to 25 
112 t spoon salt Pose flour
minutes or until pale golden brown. easpoCool completely on cookie sheets 
on red f 00d Colo· rtng
set on wire racks. Makes about 2 dozen, about 55 calories each. To store: Place in air-tight 

BEST LO
container. Store at room tem­perature up to 2 weeks. Or wrap well; label and date. Freeze up to 1 month. 
Rum Balls 
2 1/2 cups vanilla wafer crumbs 
1 cup confectioner's sugar 
2 tablespoons cocoa 
1 cup finely chopped pecans (1 /4 pound) 3 tablespoons corn syrup 1/4 cup rum (or bourbon) 
Mix crumbs, sugar, cocoa and pecans. Stir in Syrup and rum. Shape into small balls. Roll in more confectioner's sugar, if desired. Store in air-tight 
container; it will keep several weeks. Flavor improves with "aging." 
Brown«<ged Christmas cookies 
1 cup shortening 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
Blend together. Add... 
3/4 cups sugar 
2 eggs beaten 
2 1/2 cups flour 
Sprinkles/decorations 
Roll into teaspoon-sized balls and place on greased cookie sheet. Cover the bottom of a wine glass w1th a baggie (i.e. small sandwich baggie) dip in water, and press dough to the sheet with a 
page 13 

Cookies & other items help needy 
BY ROBYN SIMMONS Assistant Accent Editor 
I 
f you think about the Center for the Homeless this holiday season, think of 
underwear. 

Underwear, toothpaste, toothbrushes, soap and other toiletry items are always in de­mand for South Bend's home­less, and since Christmastime traditionally is the season for giving, anybody wishing to make a donation to the Center for the Homeless on 813 S. Michigan should keep these items in mind. 
Even though the leftovers from the Observer cookie bake­ofT will be put to good use at the Center, Operations Director Tammy Oehm stressed the need for more practical items that would benefit the homeless long after the holiday season. 
"Toiletry items are ·our biggest need," said Oehm, "Shampoo, things like that. We can always use towels and washcloths." 
"We're always looking for Christmas gifts for the adults," she said, "We always have more than enough gifts for children at Christmas time." 
According to Oehm, any new clothes, especially gloves, hats and scarves would make suit­able presents for the adults at the Center. The Center for the Homeless does not except dona­tions of used clothing due to lack of space. 
Oehm added that food items are always welcome. "We use just about anything as far as that goes, because we make boxes for people when they move out," she said. 
The holiday season usually brings out the best in people, and any contributions would be appreciated, but Oehm added that the giving doesn't have to end when the year does. "We wish people would remember us all year round," she said. 
Heat ove shortenin n to 375 vorings g, sugar e F. Mix 
salt; st;/~oroughly.' M~g and fla­Divide d tnto shorten. x flour and 
ough · tng m· 
coloring . tn half IXture
8

Roll a ~~to one half . lend food 
dough) fro~rip (Using 1 tea smooth each Co/ spoon back and ?ven strips or. For 
board. Pi Orth on a /i ,h roiJ them ~ress ligh~ce strips s?d tly floured ltke rope y together e by Side, 
complete . For be and twist a// the dcookies one st results ough at a f •
shaped f of on lme--if dry to tw· trst, strips b e Color is 
baking s~st. Place on ecome too handle of eet. Curve t ungreased Bake cane. op to form 
I. abo

1ght1y b ut 9 m · 
. rown d tnute 
Sprtnkle With e .' While snf· Until sugar. M mixture of c I Warm, canes. akes about andy and 
4 dozen 

OKING 
~ l 

page 14 The Observer 





A Christmas feast for all nations 
I'm tempted to design a Christmas card which shows a country club in Westchester, ly­ing in ruins like the Second Temple. The verse would be by 
T.S. Eliot, using the style of Isaiah: "In the land of lobelias and tennis flannelsffhe rabbit shall burrow and the thorn re­visit.ffhe nettle shall flourish on the gravel court,/And the wind shall say: 'Here were de­cent godless people:ffheir only monument the asphalt road/And a thousand lost golf balls." 
Eliot, updated, may have wrung his hands also over the plastic evergreens, hung with phoney poinsettias, that are passed off at the shopping malls as Christmas trees. 
Hasn't Christmas become a poor season in which to express the Christian optimism? As members belonging to the Church-of-What's-Happening­Now, we must at least pay lip service to those outdated myths of religion which should help us keep Christ in Christmas; otherwise we could look sullen, like children who found coal in the stockings that were hung by the chimney with care. 
In a country where abortion is so fashionable that it should be made a sacrament, what so impressive about the Virgin Birth? Isn't the loss of virginity celebrated among us as though it were a rite of passage, like a bar mitzvah? Isn't conception itself a miracle of nature that you're free to cancel like a plane reservation? 
As an American, I tend to be tolerant of any man's death, as long as it's not my own. Of course some American are 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
zealots who climb on bandwag­ons. Elizabeth Taylor, for ex­ample, is famous for fighting against AIDS; but how does she feel about Wade versus Roe? 
How do pro-lifers feel about the death penalty? How do the pro-choice people feel about Jews who died in the Holocaust? How are the Vietnam peace protestors sup­porting the war against drugs? 
And how about the college students who are up in arms, so to speak, over the Persian Gulf? Up until now, they've been prepared to live, and let die; they're starting to fear that their own ox may be gored. 
Why, they want to know, should they lay down their lives so that old folks can afford to but oil that will keep them warm in winter? Are they too young to realize that any man's death-and the death of every urchin ripped untimely from the womb-diminishes them; so that, when the death bell tolls, it tolls for them? 
Every American has the God­given right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; if you can believe that without suffer­ing from tunnel vision, you can help turn this country of ours into the Promised Land. But if you refuse to serve your down­and-out neighbor as a Good Samaritan, why do you think the neighborhood should care if you have you own backside to the wall? 

Last night, on PBS television, Joseph Campbell told Bill Moyers that men need myths to live by. "What will happen to men who have no myths?" asked Moyers. "Then," said Campbell, "We will have the kind of world you read about daily in the New York Times." 
Primitive people live, says Campbell, as though they had a covenant with Nature that gives them a reverence for life. Hemingway's old man of the sea C<!-me to my mind: Santiago, struggling with the great fish to the death, "Either I kill you, or you kill me." That's the way things are when a fisherman has to make a liv­ing from the sea. 
Isn't conception itself a miracle of nature that you're free to cancel like a plane reservation? 
The American Indians, re­specting the buffalo they needed to survive on, turned ev­ery kill into a religious ritual, says Campbell; some of those rituals, he said, should remind us of the Catholic Mass. "As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods," wrote Shakespeare: "They kill us for their sport." 

White men coming to America were like wanton boys, killing the buffaloes for their sport, and otherwise raping the wilderness. In less than a decade, they virtually wiped out the buffalo herds, because they were too spoiled or selfish to figure out that they would have treated this New Eden as though it were entrusted to them as partners in a covenant. 
Since · 1973, we've been slaughtering the innocents as though they had no share as partners in Christ's covenant of love with us. Is mother's love a myth that American women are giving up on? 
Four thousand years have passed since God delivered you Isaac from the upraised knife of Abraham, his father; an event that may have marked the end of human sacrifice among the Israelites. Isaac's mother, Sarah, hearing what happened, cried out 7 times, say the Jewish rabbis, before dying of horror. Wilfred Owen wrote a poem about Abraham as the prototype of all the fathers in every generation who send their sons to die in war. 
Maybe I should design a Christmas card listing all the kinds of human sacrifice that have taken place since Isaac's near-holocaust. I could use the Christmas sermon, from Eliot's Murder in the Cathedral, as a follow-up: "Not only do we at the feast of Christmas celebrate at once Our Lord's Birth and His Death; but on the next day we celebrate the martyrdom of His first martyr. the blessed Stephen... 
"Beloved, we do not think of a martyr as a good Christian who has been killed because he is a Christian ... A martyr is al­ways made by the design of God, for His love of men, to warn them and to lead them, to bring them back to His ways ... The true martyr is he who has become the instrument of God, who has his will in the will of God, not lost it but found it, for he has found freedom in sub­mission to God... " 
Maybe the tragedy of our contemporary death lists is that so man of them can't really have the dignity of being martyrs. Are AIDS patients who check out early really mar­tyrs, or are they only victims? 
In what way does an aborted child shed his blood for Christ? Soldiers who die in battle may be patriots martyred for their country; but can we say that their blood is the seed of the Church? 
I wish Christmas were simple enough to be a feast for all na­tions. Then the doubters could come and kneel down before the crib with the cattle. Maybe they come anyway, hoping for magic that will turn them into children ·in love with the Christmas chilrl. 
That's why we must tolerate the plastic decorations, and send plain cards addressed to men of good will. Maybe the grace from Christmas lingers all through the year, helping victims needing a leg up to Jesus; binding them to Him as the Church's quintessential martyr, Who has lost His will in the will of God. 

Are You A Big Brother or Big Sister? 


Need a Special Gift? 
Visit Our Children's Section. 

25% offAll Christmas Books and more. Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 

2nd floor 


~-~~wM~~~~~~~ 
-~ J{i '"~ ~ ~ 0 A<J{ ~ nw ~ uw ~ nw ~ U<J{ ~ Aw wA~~ 
Friday, December 7, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Olajuwon leads Rockets in victory over Charlotte 
HOUSTON (AP) -Akeem Olajuwon scored 39 points, grabbed 20 rebounds and 17-point third-quarter deficit. Floyd was 8-for-8 from the free-throw line in the game's 
for four free throws and a 112­104 advantage that ~as more than the Hornets could over­
after the first quarter. He fin­ished the first half with 18 points and 11 rebounds as the 
scored Charlotte's first five points of the fourth quarter, 
blocked 6 shots, leading the Houston Rockets to a 116-110 victory over the Charlotte Hornets on Thursday night. 
Houston's inside game pro­duced 83 points as Otis Thorpe added 17 points and 10 re­bounds and Buck Johnson scored 15 points. Guard Sleepy Floyd added 20 points and helped the Rockets stay in front after Charlotte rallied from a final 81 seconds. 
Armon Gilliam, who led the Hornets with 31 points and 21 rebounds, hit a basket to bring Charlotte to within 106-102, but Floyd hit two free throws for a 108-102 lead with 1:09 to play. 
Rex Chapman's driving layup with 39 seconds left narrowed the margin to 108-104 before Floyd and Johnson combined come. 
Johnny Newman added 26 points and 11 rebounds for the Hornets. Chapman finished with 20 points. 
Olajuwon has had 20 or more rebounds in a game 36 times in his career and four times this season. 
Olajuwon scored eight points in a 24-10 run that helped Houston take a 33-17 lead Rockets' frontcourt scored 44 
points to help Houston to a 62­
46 halftime lead. 
Newman and Dell Curry combined for 23 of Charlotte's 33 points in the third quarter, . bringing the Hornets to within 
88-79. 
Olajuwon scored 13 points in 
only nine minutes of the third 
quarter. 
Reserve center Dave lloppen 
Kings 104, Bullets 86 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) -Wayman Tisdale's 27 points led Sacamento to a 104-86 victory over the Washington Bullets Thursday night, giving the Kin~s back-to-hack home wins 
for the first time since late January. 
Bernard King topped Washington with 25 points while A.J. English added 17. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be


Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
NOTICES 
'"' CINCINNATI A furnished room for Grad or Sr. $150/mon. including utilities I PERSONALS I desparately need a ride to and laundary. Call 272-1869. NOtiCes Cincinnati on the friday of final hiag week, and will certainly help with Female Roommate needed for TYPING AVAILABLE gas $. Please call Kristen Campus View Apt. call Brigid WAKE N' BAKE! SPRING BREAK 287-4082 McDonald at x2927. #2628 JAMAICAICANCUN FROM $429 
ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL TYPING term CINCINNATI Single 2-Room Apt. FREE!! BOOK EARLY AND SAVE papers/reports/letters/resumes. $125 WI util. $30! 800-426-7710 Pick up and delivery available. VOCALIST or 15 min. walk from Campus 277-5134 KEYBOARDNOCALS wanted for Bob x3234 ORANGE BOWL SPECIAL Stay Cathy. hard rock band with demo and on your own private yacht for only 
promo. Ready to play now, but A quaint studio in lovely old $28.50/pplday. Typing will wait until next semester. Male mansion 1/2 mile from campus Special Air Fares, too!! Pickup & Delivery or female. Call 283-3072 and 225 plus deposit please call Call Easy Sailing for details 277-7406 leave message. 2888595 1 (800)780-4001. 
$$FOR BOOKS I need a ride to Philly area Top 10 Reasons to wish Kristin Used Texts bought and sold for x-mas break. Please'!!! FOR SALE Appelget a Happy Birthday on Pandora's Books 233-2342 Call Kathy x4238 Saturday: 
corner of ND ave and Howard For Sale 1 0) If you don't, she'll call you 
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY Ski Rack $50.00 'heinous' GRAD STUDENT'S TV color & remote 9) It's cheaper than buying her a X-MAS PARTY Couple seeks daycare for 2 call 255-2719 present 
THIS FRIDAY NIGHT young children in their home; 8) She's taller than you WILSON COMMONS Wednesdays from 8 to 5 Double bed, Dresser, Desk, 7) If you saw her out in the BRING 2 CANNED GOODS beginning January. Dining room table, Sofa. snowball fight, you know what can FOR ADMISSION ! Residence near campus, Call277-2238 happen if you make her mad 
transportation available. 6) If you live on South Quad AND FOR SALE: '85 FORD TOPAZ saw her in the snowball fight, 
Wages very attractive. RED -2000R saying 'happy birthday' is just the Call 234-2180 83,000 MILES start of what you need to do 
MORNINGS: 239-7979 5) Hearing her say 'thank-you' will I LOST MY PURSE IN OTHER TIMES: 2991251 cut the amount of time she spends O'SHAUGHNESSY ON FOR RENT ) saying 'heinous· THURSDAY. 11/29. PLEASE VISTA 6-STEEL STRING 4) She's stronger than you CALL PATTY 277-7685. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ACOUSTIC GUITAR WITH CASE. 3) It's more fun than watching a 
219-291-7153 NEVER USED. PAID $270, Portugese movie Lost: Nikon camera. At Flanner ASKING $150. CALL MARY 2) If you tell her 'happy birthday, Formal. If found please call x 1192 Apts/Dorms-What's the differ­BETH 287-5850. she might vacuum your couch and ask for Tom. Camera ence? GET A HOUSE! 6 avail.: 4-1) You're not doing anY1hing else contains film with great 6 BRs; Exc.Locations; Safe; Lndy; ONE-WAY TICKET 12/16 SB TO Saturday anyway. sentimental value. Character; 233-994 7/287-3530. NEWARK, NJ. 277-3545 OR 239­
LOST/FOUND 
Do you need a ride to the DC Area on Wed., Dec. 19? Call Shannon X1367 
BACCHUS.XMAS PARTY FREE MOVIES GRINCH AND RUDOLPH FREE FOOD 7:00P AT THEODORE'S MON DEC 10 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, HOT SHOT!!! 
HAPPY ANNIVERSARY, MARCUS THANK YOU FOR A MAGICAL (FIRST?) YEAR. GOD BLESS YOU, US, AND OUR UNENDING, UN INNOCENT LOVE AFFAIR. I LOVE YOU! (GOOD LUCK ON THE GRE TOMORROW) MELISSA 
For sale VW GTI '84 for INFO. call255-2719 
ALL MEN'S HAIRCUTS $5 OFF. MENTION THIS ADD AT CAMPUS HAIRCRAFTERS SMC GOOD THRU 12-20-90 ROBERT DICKINSON IS AN OLD MAN ... ROBERT DICKINSON IS AN OLD MAN ... ok, now that i have your attention: happy birthday, my spunk lord. One year post-Harvey and we're still going strong. Thanks for always being there to hear my cries of angst and the sorrid details of my scandalous life. not to mention grossing me out at all times. I'll cut your hair any day, forever and ever. In fact, you need a trim ... 

love and wet smooches, mo 

Q: What happens at midnight tonight at Badin's SYR? 
A: KRISTEN MCDONALD TURNS """""'21"'""'""Seeping will take on a whole new meaning! 
-kes 
CARRIE AMANN IS 21! CARRIE AMANN IS 21!! CARRIE AMANN IS 21 !I! CARRIE AMANN IS 21 !!!! CARRIE AMANN IS 21 !!!!!! HAPPY 21ST B-DAY CARRIE HOPE YOU CAN MAKE IT PAST 10 O'CLOCK TONIGHT!!!! GOOD LUCK. 


ACTRESS NEEDED FOR 90 SEC. FILM TO BE SHOT ON MONDA). PLEASE CALL 3745 
A White Rose 
A Reason to Smile
DATTitS 

24-hour Lounges, Holding your 00 YOURSELF A FU.VOI? 
Hand 
...... _ 

Playing in the leaves & snow Never wanting to let you go 


-"---· 

r5'i~;-;;r2"f;;-$8.99-­
1 Your furtivity, my ignobility I lost a black "Sun Ice" ski 1 female needed to share a brand X4021 and tell her to have a • save over $2.50 Board and Fireside. 'Ay' 
7609. SOOOO: Go for it. Call Kristin at 
J Ptck anv two Gnumu.•1 SandW'Ic~e. Ijacket with fluorescent blue new condo at Oakhill! Your own FABULOUS 20th birthday. 1 two Guden Salads, plus y~ur cho1cc of J Don't withhold the 'Nay.' and red stripes and a blue bedroom/bath. Free laundry + ENJOY THE SNOW, X-COUNTRY I J Honesty.
French Fries oz: Onion Rin~ and :! 

inner lining. If found please parking. Move in now or next SKIS, boots(8 1/2), poles. Must EARTH JAM II!! I expires 12/31/90 Mlm...,d•"' I For in the dew of little things call Phil at x1436. semester. $250/mo. Call 288-sell, moving to Florida. 272-3932. EARTH JAM II!! the heart finds its morning 
~--------~--------~ 
0792. 1Sundae J and is refreshed. One-way air ticket from Los CHISEL, THE GENERICS. Thank you. Love and Smiles
I 99rt I 
HELP! ROOMS FOR RENT 2ND SEM. Angeles to South Bend 1/15,$100 XYZ AFFAIR, EXIT 77 and Hugs.
I Buy any size sundae and I 
Friday night at the Linebacker 6-7 BDRM. HOME. INDIVIDUALS OBO. Carol 232-3330 7PM-1AM-STEPAN CTR. 
I 
receive a second one of theJ 

I lost a gold lighter engraved OR GROUPS. EARTH JAM II!! Carrie Amann is 21 ? You should
1 same size for 99¢ 1
w/MIKE. This had great senti­232-1776. ORANGE BOWL FLIGHT TICKET ..._.........___________ .... have seen her in high school! She 
1 expires 12/31/90 1 
mental value and I'll give $25 Leaving St. Louis 5:00 Dec. 30, SEA PRE-CYCLING! was editor of her high school to anyone who returns it PRIVATE ROOM FOR GRAD returning from Miami Jan. 3. SEA PRE-CYCLING! 
newspaper and a big time dweeb. (which is more than a new STUDENT. UTILITIES, $200/MO. Call Patx 233-7328. Asking Just kidding Carrie, you're a geek. one would cost) I don't care SHARE KITCHEN & COMMON $300 or best offer. FLIGHT FOR SALE not a dweeb. how you got it, but please ROOMS WITH FIVE OTHERS. DENVER-SOUTH BEND Love. Your favorite Brother Rice give it back. Call Mike X3479 232-8444 noon-6. TUES. JAN. 15 Man. or Jim X3669 LOU 2246 P.S. You're fired. 

TICKETS 
LG. BEDROOM IN LG. HISTORIC Help!! Lost my keys' Between HOME DOWNTOWN. SENIORS SENIORS Jeanne, Carroll Hall and SDH Tu. nile AVAIL JAN. 1. 289-4383. NON­ORANGE BOWL TICKETS Sign up at Career & Placement 1 w:ant you now! Tonight seems so 6 keys plus bike key on orange SMOKERS ONLY CALL (800) 226-8499 Services through far away. Yesterday in our 11 :00 Nike plastic keychain. Call Dec. 14-for interviews was awesome. Let's do iit again Bryan x4521 for reward 3 BDRM HOUSE, BASEMENT, 4 ORANGE BOWL TICKETS for first 2 weeks of Spring 
soon. Really soon! GARAGE, 18195 BULLA RD., FOR SALE: ROW 15. 25 yard line. Semester 
Love, Arthur Help!! Lost 6 keys plus bike $410/MONTH. 256-9500 1-5. (305) 255-3432. 
P.S. I could go for a bowl of clam lock key btwn. Carroll Hall AVOID THE RUSH ! 
chowder. and SOH on Tue. nile. On Nike NEAR N.D comfortable, secure AVOID THE LINES ! 
For My Name After 
orange chain. Call Bryan at apt: 1 bdrm -$255 ORANGE BOWL TIX Robert(Robere),

Break!!
x4521 for reward! dep.. references 616-483-9572. 317-879-8497 PLACE YOUR CHRISTMAS Happy Birthday! Thank you for 
GREETING CLASSIFIEDS MONDAY SPECIAL educating little naive me as to CAMPUSVIEW APARTMENTS ORANGE BOWL TICKETS (4) SOON. THE LAST ISSUE OF $10.00 OFF PERM & HAIRCUT what "men" wear under their WANTED RESERVE YOUR APT. FOR FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. CALL THE OBSERVER IS FRIDAY, COSIMO'S SHAPES & LINES boxers. Don't let your "nasty" 
NEXT YEAR. CALL 272-1441. TOM (513) 931-7116. LEAVE DEC.14. 277-1875 roomates get you drunk and take 
MESSAGE. DO IT EARLY AND GET IT DONE (Mondays Only) advantage of you!!!!!! HOT! HOT! HOT! FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED BEFORE FINALS!!! Love, Jeanne (No not BREAKTHROUGH NUTRITIONAL FOR TURTLE CREEK APT ORANGE BOWL TIX'S. 50 YD. Kristin Miller. the whipped cream and clam PRODUCTS DISTRIBUTORS FROM LINE. (305) 891-0581. THE WASHINGTON D.C. CLUB Happy 21st Birthday!!! chowder chick above!!!! 
....................................
NEEDED/ GROUNDFLOOR JAN.-MAY IS CHARTERING A UNITED ( a little late, huh ) We will OPPORTUNITY. CALL (612) 438-PLEASE CALL 273-9406 OR AVAILABLE: ONE ROUND-TRIP LIMO BUS OUT OF SOUTH celebrate on the 8th. Rich, 6317.24 HOUR RECORDED 283-2805 AIR TICKET, CHICAGO TO BEND FOR ANY PERSONS ? Hi! I hope you didn't have too MESSAGE. LONDON, 26 DEC. TO 8 JAN. WISHING TO GO TO D.C. FOR much fun tonight while I slave 
2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 PHONE 233·3745. CHRISTMAS BREAK. THE BUS JESTER. live and uninhibited, away here!! No, seriously, I hope WANTED: 1 RESPONSIBLE MINUTES WILL BE LEAVING FRIDAY, 21 AT Sat.. Dec. 8th at Club 23! you had fun ( but not as much fun INDIVIDUAL TO SHARE DRIVING FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON 11:30 PM. AND RETURNING "It'll make your head spin!" as you'll have at our S.Y.R. (I & GAS TO WASHINGTON, D.C. 425 MONTH+DEPOSIT ORANGE BOWL CLASSIC 1991 THE FOLLOWING SATURDAY. know, I'll probably get slammed for AREA. CALL PAM AT 239-232-3616 NOTRE DAME VS. COLORADO ROUNDTRIP $115 ONE WAY RYAN DARGIS HAS A HICKEY! saying that too. Oh well, it's good 6904/6218, MON.-FRI., 8:00A.M.-3 DAYS/ 2 NIGHTS OF FUN AND $60. SIGN UPS UNTIL FRIDAY,?. occasionally. builds character!). 4:30P.M. HOUSES AVAIL FOR 91-92 YR. FOOTBALL IN MIAMI. MORE INFO CALL BRETT X SENIORS SENIORS Love, 
5-6 BDRMS. REASONABLE DECEMBER 31 -JANUARY 2 1416 OR TOM X 1189. Sign up at Career & Placement me
........................................
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 RATES. 232-1776. PRIME GAME TICKETS -HOTEL Services through Dec. 14-for mo. Summer, Yr. round, All ACCOMMODATIONS. Help! I need a ride to Twin interviews for first 2 weeks of Marianne. Countries, All fields. Free info. 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, '"NEW YEAR'S EVE Cities area leaving 12/21 or Spring Semester. You'd better cut loose and live up 
Write IJC, PO Bx 52-or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, fum., CELEBRATION CRUISE'" after. Will help with gas and to our reputation this weekend! Corona Del Mar CA 92625 washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or $599.00 PER PERSON DOUBLE tolls. Mary X2549 HAPPY BIRTHDAY After all, I ca't let you turn into a 288-5653 OCCUPANCY. LOW AIRFARE BETH KUZMICHI!!!! "throat." Just remember, you're 
If you videotaped the AND CAR RATES. CALL NOW!! Astronomical News Beth time has now officially made not opening a book after 1 on Tenn or USC games. 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, LIMITED AVAILABILITLY!I The focus of all life forms has you an entire year late! Saturday!!!!!!!!! could you give me a call?? -Lisa or 2 bedrm. house. Safe. turn., OASIS TICKETS AND TOURS shifted!!!! Love, Love, x4842 washer/dryer. Bruce: 234·3831 or 1-!100-229-4493 JMS IS THE CENTER OF MY The 2 Best Quads Your 
288-5653 UNIVERSE I inPW wonderfullly creative roomate. 
Scoreboard Friday, December 7, 1990
page 16 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvlalon w L Pet GB L10 
Boston 14 3 .824 9-1 Philadelphia12 6 .687 2112 7-3 New Y()f!( 7 9 .438 6112 3-7 New Jersey 7 10 .412 7 5-5 Washington 6 11 .353 8 4-6 Miami 5 12 .294 9 2-8 
Central Dlvt.lon Detro~ 13 5 .722 7-3 Milwaukaa 12 6 .667 1 7-3 Chicago 11 6 .647 1112 7-3 
Cleveland 10 9 .526 3112 4-6 Charlotte 8 9 .471 4112 5-5 Indiana 7 11 .389 6 3-7 Atlanta 6 10 .375 6 2-8 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Midweat Dlvlalon w L Pet GB LtO 
San Antonio 9 5 .643 6-4 Utah 10 7 .588 112 8-2 Houston 10 8 .556 t 6-4 Dallas 6 9 .400 3112 2-8 Minnesota 6 12 .333 5 3-7 Orlando 4 14 .222 7 2-8 
Denver 3 14 .176 7112 3-7 
Pacific Dlvlaion Portland 16 1 .941 9-1 LA Lakers 10 5 .667 5 9-1 Golden State11 7 .611 5112 5-5 Phoenix 8 7 .533 7 4-6 LA Clippers 9 8 .529 7 6-4 Seattle 5 10 .333 10 2-8 Sacramento 2 13 .133 13 2-8 
Thursday'• Game• 
Late Game Not Included Sean Ia 1 05, M iarri 103 LA Lakers 83, Minnesota 73 Houston 116, Charlotte 110 Washington at Sacramento, (n) 
Frlday'a Gamea Milwaukaa at Atlanta, 7:30p.m. Portland at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Phoenix at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Denver at Philadelphia, 7::JJ p.m. Seattle at Orlando, 7:30p.m. Boston at Dallas, 8 p.m. New York at Chicago, 8:30p.m. LA Lakers at Utah, 9:30p.m. Detroit at Golden Slate, 10:30 p.m. 
NCAA SCORES 
EAST Alderson-Broaddus 88, Bluefield St. 69 American Inti. 89, S. Connecticut 86, 20T Baptist Bible, Pa. 96, Val. Forge Christian 68 

\ Bloomfield 73, Dominican, N.Y. 67 Clark Col. 83, Anna Maria 74 
\ 
\ 
Drew 86, Delaware Val. 64 "itchburg St. 80, Rhode Island Coli. 70\ Geneva 63, Thiel 51 
\ ~haca 78, Keuka 64 King's, N.Y. 94, Daniel Webster 45
\ 
j 
Manhattan 104, New Harfll6hire 81 Massachusetts 80, Lowell 57 Nazareth, N.Y. 78, Utica 71 New HalllJ&hire Coli. 95, Bryant 86 Pittsburgh 105, Marshall 75 Roberts Wesleyan 97, Oswego St. 66 
Rochester 80, Case Western 71 Rutgers 75, S1. Joseph's 69, OT 

·~ 
S. Maine 80, New England 65 Salem St. 100, Plymouth S1. 92 St. Anselm 101, Babson 85 \ Stevens Tech 73, N.Y. Poly 68 Swarthmore 79, Muhlenberg 75
:~ Wash. & Jeff. 81, Musklngum 76 Wesley 79, Lincoln, Pa. 61
I 
Wesleyan 80. Worcester Tech 73 I Westfield St. 62, W. New England 56 Yeshiva 85, Bard 78 
SOUTH Atlanta Christian 83, Toccoa Falls 80 Bethune-Cookman 73, Sletson 72 Cent Florida 111, Mercer74 Coastal Carolina 79, Crtadel 71 Florida Atlantic 92, Barry 70 Florida Southern 96, North Central 70 Georgetown, Ky. 121, Carrpbellsville 120 GuiHord 94, N.C. Wesleyan 86 Ky. Wesleyan 89, Lincoln Memorial 51 Larrbuth CoiL 86, Tenn.-Martin 82 Lander 61, Presbyterian 55 Mary Washington 88, Frostburg St. 72 Milligan 64, Clinch Valley 60 North Carolina 79, Connecticut 64 Roanoke 81, Averett 71 Southern U. 159, Texas Coil. 65 Spring Hill 83, Livingston St. 74 Tennes599 Tech 84, Southern Miss. 78 Tusculum 93, Va. Intermont 81 Villanova 91, Wake Forest 82 Winston-Salem 81, Nor1ok S1. 67 
MIDWEST Butler 97, Valparaiso 75 Cent Michigan 105, Chicago S1. 87 E. lltinois 95, Augustana,lll. 75 Hannibal-LaGrange 88, Graanville 85 lnd.-Pur.-lndpls. 75, Hanover 68 Kentucky S1. 94, Cent. S1 .. Ohio 88 Mac Murray 85, Monmouth, IR. 78 Marycrest 65, Culver-Slockton 56 Miami, Ohio 101, Dayton 77 Midland Lutheran 81, Teikyo Westmar 67 Nebraska 97, Creighton 63 Otterbein 78, Wittenberg 75 Rio Grande 135, Cincinnati Bible 52

J 
I 
Wartburg 94, Loras 63 
WicMa St. 88, Delaware St. 82 

l 
l SOUTHWEST Ark.-Monticello 89, Ouachrta 66 Arkansas Tech 76, Henderson St. 68 Hendrix 87, S. Arkansas 84 Texas-EI Paso 101, Md.-E. Shore 64 Texas-San Antonio 105, Texas-Arlington 90 
U. of the Ozarks 100, Harding 94 ' FAR WEST 

Air Force 72, Mesa, Colo, 56 Charninade 82, Portland 80 Gonzaga 112, Idaho S1. 75 Montana 1 08, Northridge S1. 73 Purdue 66, California 65 San Bernardino St. 73, Pomona-Pitzer 67 Southern Cai Coli. 85, Christian Her~age 59 Utah 95, Oregon 81 Lost 3 8-0 5-5 11-1 Wont 9-0 3-6 10-6 Won6 4-2 7-4 5-3 Lost 1 6-3 4-6 8-8 Lost 2 5-2 3-7 7-7 Wont 7-2 0-9 4-9 Won2 2-5 4-5 1-9 

Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
Won2  9-1  5-2  9-3  
Won2  9-1  3-5  11-5  
Lost 1  3-6  4-3  4-5  
Won2  5-3  2-7  3-8  
Wont  4-3  2-8  4-9  
Lost 3  4-6  1-6  4-8  

Streak Home Away Coni Lost 1 6-1 3-4 9-4 Won2 7-2 3-5 8-4 Wont 8-2 2-6 7-5 Lost 3 4-3 2-6 4-8 Lost 1 4-4 2-8 4-9 Lost 1 3-4 1-10 2-10 Lost 3 3-6 0-8 3-11 
Won5 10-1 6-0 12-1 Won8 6-3 4-2 9-4 Lost 1 6-2 5-5 7-4 Lost 3 5-3 3-4 7-4 Won3 8-3 1-5 8-5 Won1 3-5 2-5 2-6 Wont 1-5 1-8 1-8 
Saturday's Games Denver at Charlotte, 7:30p.m. Phoenix at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Cleveland at Indiana, 7:30p.m. New York at Atlanta, 8 p.m. Portland at Chicago, 8:30p.m. Houston at Dallas, 8:30p.m. Boston at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. Utah at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Detro~ at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
Sunday's Games Seanle at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. Washington at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. 
Wedneaday'a Gamea Boston 148, Denver 140 Indiana 126, Phoenix 121 Portland 119, Orlando 110 Milwaukee 113, Cleveland 109, OT 
Atlanta 110, San Antonio 108 Utah 106, Detroit 85 Washington 1 04, Golden State 98 LA Clippers 93, Dallas 89 
NHL STANDINGS 

WALES  CONFERENCE  
Patrick  Dlviaion  
w  L  T  Pta  GF  
NY Rangers  17  10  5  39  121  
Philadelphia  17  12  2  36  113  
New Jersey  15  10  4  34  116  
Washington  16  14  0  32  101  
Pittsburgh  12  14  2  26  116  
NY Islanders  9  16  2  20  73  

Adama Dlvialon Boston 15 9 4 34 93 Montreal 15 13 3 33 97 Hartford 11 13 4 26 81 Buffalo 10 10 7 27 84 Quebec 5 19 6 16 82 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norria Dlvialon 

w L T Pta GF Chicago 18 9 2 38 96 St. Louis 15 9 3 33 91 Detroit 13 11 4 30 104 Minnesota 8 15 6 22 80 Toronto 6 23 1 13 81 
Smythe Divialon Los Angeles 16 7 4 36 113 Calgary 16 9 4 36 123 Vancouver 14 13 2 30 91 Edmonton 10 14 2 22 80 Winnipeg 9 17 5 23 101 
Wedneaday'a Games Montreal 4, Hartford 3 Washington 3, Pittsburgh 1 Minnesota 3, Toronto 2 New Jersey 9, Vancouver 4 Calgary 4, N.Y. Rangers 1 Edmonton 3, Quebec 2 Winnipeg 3, Los Angeles 3, tie 
Thuraday'a Gamea 
Late Gamea Not Included 
Montreal 6, Boston 4 

Buffalo 4, Philadelphia 3 
N.Y. Islanders at Chicago, (n) Toronto at Minnesota, (n) 
NFL STANDINGS 

AMERICAN  CONFERENCE  
Eaat  
Buffalo Miami lndnplis NY Jets  w 10 9 5 4  L 2 3 7 9  T 0 0 0 0  Pet .833 .750 .417 .308  PF 342 252 193 216  PA 200 164 250 295  Home 7-<Hl 4-1-0 2-4-0 2-4-0  Away 3-2-0 f>-2-0 3-3-0 2-5-0  AFC 8-2-o 8-1-0 4-5-0 3-9-0  NFC 2-0-0 1-2-0 1-2-0 1-0-0  Div f>-1-0 6-0-0 2-3-0 1-5-0  
N England  1  11  0  .083  151  342  0-6-0  1-5-0  1-9-0  0-2-0  1-6-0  
Central  
Cincnnatl Pnsburgh  7 6  5 6  0 0  .563 .500  275 210  274 197  3-2-0 4-2-0  4-3-0 2-4-0  6-3-0 4-f>-0  1-2-0 2-1-0  3-1-0 1-3-0  
Houston Cleveland  6 2  6 10  0 0  .500 .167  266 187  229 338  4-2-0 1-6-0  2-4-0 1-4-0  f>-3-0 2-7-0  1-3-0 0-3-0  2-2-0 1-2-0  
Weal  
Kan. City LA Raidrs Seattle San Diego Denver  8 8 6 6 3  4 4 6 7 9  0 0 0 0 0  .667 .667 .500 .462 .250  283 230 222 272 257  179 194 226 220 303  5-1-0 4-2-0 3-3-0 3-4-0 2-4-0  3-3-0 4-2-0 3-3-0 3-3-0 1-5-0  5-4-0 7-3-0 6-4-0 f>-6-0 3-6-0  3-0-0 1-1-0 0-2-0 1-1-0 0-3-0  3-3-0 f>-2-0 3-4-0 2-3-0 2-3-0  
NATIONAL  CONFERENCE  
Eaat  
y-NYGints Phlla Washingtn  w 10 7 7  L 2 5 5  T 0 0 0  Pet .833 .583 .583  PF 262 305 289  PA 148 252 233  Home 6-0-o 4-2-0 5-1-0  Away 4-2-0 3-3-0 2-4-0  AFC 2-0-0 1-2-0 1-0-0  NFC 8-2-0 6-3-0 6-5-0  Div 6-1-0 3-3-0 4-4-0  
Dallas Phoenix  6 4  7 8  0 0  .462 .333  193 192  255 295  4-3-0 3-3-0  2-4-0 1-5-0  1-1-0 2-2-o  5-6-0 2-6-0  1-5-0 2-3-0  
Central  
x-Chicago  10  2  0  .833  281  197  6-o-o  4-2-0  2-1-0  8-1-0  5-1-0  
Green Bay  6  6  0  .500  227  250  3-3-0  3-3-0  1-1-0  5-5-0  3-4-0  
Minesota  6  6  0  .500  282  229  4-2-0  2-4-0  2-1-0  4-5-0  3-4-0  
Tampa Bay Detroit  5 4  8 8  0 0  .385 .333  210 270  311 307  3-3-0 2-4-0  2-5-0 2-4-0  0-1-0 1-1-o  f>-7-0 3-7-0  4-2-0 1-5-0  
Weat  
x-San Frn  11  1  0  .917  277  182  6-1-0  5-0-0  3-0-0  8-1-0  3-1-0  
LA Rams 5 7 NewOrlns 5 7 Atlanta 3 9 x-clinched division t~le  0 0 0  .417 .417 .250  285 211 279  322 219 308  2-4-0 4-2-0 3-2-0  3-3-0 1-5-0 0-7-0  2-2-o 2-1-0 2-1-0  3-5-0 3-6-0 1-8-0  2-0-0 1-2-0 1-4-0  
y-clinched playoff berth  
Sunday,  Dec.  8  
Buffalo at Indianapolis, 1 p.m.  
Cleveland at Houston, 1 p.m.  
Minnesota at New Y()f!( Giants, 1 p.m.  
New England at Pittsburgh, 1 p.m.  
Phoenix at Atlanta, 1 p.m.  
San Francisco at Cincinnati, 1 p.m.  
Seattle vs. Green Bay at Milwaukee, 1 p.m.  
Chicago at Washington, 4 p.m.  
Denver at Kansas Crty, 4 p.m.  
New Orleans at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m.  
Philade~hia at Miami, 8 p.m.  
Monday,  OPEN DATES: Dallas, New York Jets, San Diego, Tampa Bay Dec. 10  
Los Angeles Raiders at Detroit, 9 p.m.  

NFLSTATS 
AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE OFFENSE 
Yards Rush Pea a GA Home Away Dlv Houston 4451 936 3515 95 10-4-2 7-6-3 f>-6-2 Cincinnati 3908 1525 2383 97 10-7-1 7-f>-1 6-7-2 Buffalo 3902 1543 2359 97 10-3-3 f>-7-1 7-f>-2 Denver 3900 1425 2475 93 7-6-0 9-8-0 
8-5-0 KansasC~ 3749 1496 2253 112 6-8-0 6-6-2 8-6-0 San Diego 4024 1881 2143 
101 5-8-1 4-8-1 3-8-2 Miami 3679 1226 2453 Jels 3804 1579 2225 Raiders 3411 1440 1971 
88 7-4-2 8-5-2 5-4-2 

Seattle 3375 1247 2128 98 8-6-1 7-7-2 8-4-2 Cleveland 3321 835 2486 90 5-7-3 5-6-3
6-6-1 Pittsburgh 3248 1275 1973 84 4-2-5 6-8-2 3-f>-3 
New England 3176 1048 2128 132 2-9-4 3-10-2 3-5-4 Indianapolis 3090 895 2195 
DEFENSE Yarda Ruah Pau GA Home Away Div 
Miami 3024 1162 1862 71 9-4-1 9-5-1 7-4-0 
Raiders 3122 1143 1979 76 7-3-3 8-6-0 6-4-1 Pittsburgh 3153 1239 1914 105 11-4-0 2-7-4 8-3-2 San Diego 3489 1197 2292 
99 5-7-2 3-8-4 1-7-2 Houston 3404 1116 2288 136 4-12-1 2-11-0 3-7-1 Kansas cny 3513 1303 2210 Buffalo 3559 1414 2145 
Seattle 3571 1299 2272 85 11-2-2 f>-f>-2 4-3-2 Cleveland 3822 1470 2352 92 9-3-1 7-6-3 7-1-1 
Denver 4081 1562 2519 98 8-4-1 6-9-1 3-6-0 Indianapolis 4132 1559 2573 78 6-6-1 4-8-1 1-6-2 
Jels 4543 1701 2842 111 6-8-2 3-9-3 5-4-3 
New England 4233 1815 2418 
Cincinnati 4236 1515 2721 
TRANSACTIONS 

BASEBALL American League KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Signed Steve Crawford, ~cher, to a rrinor-league contract 
MILWAUKEE BREWERs-Waived Gus Polldor, infielder, and Tony Fossas, pllcher. National League 
CHICAGO CUBS-Signed George Bell, outfielder, to a three-year conlract. CINCINNATI REDs-Designated Tim Birtsas, p~cher, for assignment. 
BASKETBALL National Baaketball Aaaociatlon LOS ANGELES LAKER5-Waived Tony Brown, guard-lorward. 
MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES-Signed Tim Leiweke, executive vice president of marketing and sales, to a two year contract extension. 
NEW YORK KNICKS-Piaced Trent Tucker, guard, on the injured list. Activated John Starks, guard, from the injured list. Continental Basketball Aaeociatlon 
GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Acquired Kenny Drummond, guard, from the Quad City Thunder to complete a previous trade for Tony Harris. 
SAN JOSE JAMMERs-Fired Cory Russell, head coach. Named Gerry Fraetis Interim head coach. 
FOOTBALL 
National Football League 

DENVER BRONCOs-Placed Gerald Perry, offensive tackle, on the reserve-Ish squad list. World League of American Football 
LONOON MONARCHS-Named Bob Payton president. 
HOCKEY National Hockey League NHL-Announced that franchises in Ottawa and Tampa, Fla. wil! be added for the 1992-93 season. 
COLLEGE IOWA STATE-Announced David Washington, guard, quit the basketball team. 
LOUISIANA STATE-Named Mike Bugar defensive coordinator and line coach; Steve Dav1s defensive backs and special teams coach; Steve Buckley running backs and special teams coach; Larry Edmondson wide receivers coach; Phil Bennett inside lin<ibackers coach; and Buddy King offensive line coach. 
PURDUE-Named Jim Colleno football coach. 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 
OFFENSE Yarda Ruah Pan 
San Francisco 4399 1063 3336 
Washington 4250 1424 2826 
Philadelphia 4174 1774 2400 
Ram! 4113 1279 2834 
Atlanta 3953 1122 2831 
Chicago 3923 1972 1951 
Green Bay 3655 1133 2522 
Detroit 3653 1374 2279 
Minnesota 3652 1492 2160 
New Orleans 3601 1464 2137 
Giants 3592 1401 2191 
Tampa Bay 3683 1258 2425 
Phoenix 3395 1561 1834 
Dallas 3377 1191 2186 
DEFENSE Yards Ruah Po a a 
Giants 2963 1036 1927 
Chicago 3201 1098 2103 
San Francisco 3319 910 2409 
Minnesota 3383 1514 1869 
New Orleans 3489 1115 2374 
Philadelphia 3561 913 2648 
Dallas 3896 1565 2331 
Washington 3674 1279 2395 
Phoenix 3802 1697 2105 
Graan Bay 4004 1375 2629 
Tampa Bay 4361 1893 2468 
Atlanta 4182 950 3232 
Ram! 4256 1163 3093 
Detro~ 4485 1856 2629 

Frlday'a Gamea Hartford at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. St. Louis at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. 234-6767
~~ 

Vancouver at Pittsburgh, 7:45p.m. New Jersey at Washington, 8:05 p.m. 
y
Quebec at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. Products 
N.Y. Rangers at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. Saturday'• Gamea 



f~4~ .~ 
Pittsburgh at Hartford, 7:35 p.m. 

~ ·e~ 
,~~,s
· 

Washington at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. Boston at Montreal, 8:05 p.m. co~s\l\. ,l~"·"''· .--6"· 
Chicago at Toronto, 8:05p.m. ~p£.1~ '\l~r.,...oo<\~. \fo'''n'""l , \ fpll'o\!1 II ~..n'''" \\~
Philadelphia at Minnesota, 8:35 p.m. 
-Full Service Solon 

Detrort at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. Winnipeg at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. -Close to Campus 
• Tanning Bed $ 35/month 

HappyZist Big Mo! 
{5Ire you sure tliat snot 1-2 insteatf of2-1 ?) 
Love, Rock, Em, KP, and The Gang 
-.---------------~-------------------~~----~~~-~~-­
Friday, December 7, 1990 The Observer page 17 


Canadiens defeat Boston, 6-4 
BOSTON (AP) -Stephan Lebeau and Brian Skrudland scored rare power-play goals as the Montreal Canadiens moved within one point of Adams Division-leading Boston with a 6-4 victory over the Bruins on Thursday night. 
The Montreal power-play, once the best, is now the worst in the 21-team National Hockey League with 17 goals in 137 chances. 
Lyndon Byers put the Bruins in front 1-0 with a goal at 1:34 of the first period, but Lebeau came right back with his power-play score at 11: 16. 
Rookie winger Benoit Brunet gave the Canadiens a 2-1 lead with his first NHL goal at 14:29, but Dave Christian tied it with a tip-in from the slot at 19:24. 
Skrudland fired his power­play goal at 9:09 of the second period and defenseman Eric Desjardins put Montreal up by two with a goal off Boston de­fenseman Glen Wesley's skate 1:39later. 
The Bruins' Craig Janney closed the gap to 4-3 as he teed up a power-play goal at 19:17. 
Stephane Richer scored his 13th of the season at 1:31 of the third period to make it 5-3 Montreal before Randy Burridge scored Boston's fourth goal at 15:10. 
Guy Carbonneau scored into an empty net for the Canadiens at 19:59. 
The victory left the Canadiens with 33 points to Boston's 34 in the race for first place in the Adams Division. Boston, however, has three games in hand. 
Sabres 4, Flyers 3 

Rick Vaive scored with 4:02 left in the third period as the Buffalo Sabres held off a rally by the Philadelphia Flyers for a 4-3 victory on Thursday night. 

Vaive put in his own rebound for the winning goal. He first redirected Doug Badger's point drive. Goaltender Ken Wregget, seeing action for the first time since injuring his hip Nov. 4, made the initial save, but Vaive pushed the puck around the sprawled Wregget. . 
Philadelphia trailed 3-0 in the second period when Mike Ricci won a faceoff, tipped the puck back to the point, and rushed to the net to tip in Gord Murphy's point drive at 12:15. 
Scott Mellanby tipped in a Ron 
Happ~ 20th Birthda~ Beth! 

Much love, Best Wishes from Mom, Dad and Vicki ;;_:____. 
~~~~~~~~ 
;;r ~:• ~:~ ~=· ~=~ ~=~ ~:~ ~:-. ~:~....,;
1._  JIIcvD~ @CWJ@@f?{]  
lf  Suzuki Talent Education  !'  ~  
·,:f  ol Mlchiana  
Featuring children ages 2-16  
on violin, cello, and piano.  
Sunday, December 9  
1:00pm  
THEODORE'S  
sponsored by SUB  
-~-·J  

Sutter rebound with 5:23 gone in the third period and Derrick Smith. just 37 seconds later, skated from behind the net and delivered a backhander just inside the post to tie the game. 
The Flyers then wasted a chance to score when Buffalo goaltender Clint Malarchuk was assessed a five-minute spearing penalty and a game miscon­duct. 
The Sabres scored their first three goals in the first 5:37 of the second period. Dave Andreychuk took a pass from Bodger and rifled in a power­play goal at 3:59. 
Irish sailors take eighth place in National Sloops 
Club sporl<; are played on a wide variety of surfaces. Water floats the boats of members of the Notre Dame rowing and sailing clubs, and each of these teams enjoyed successful recent outings. 
Traveling to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, the 

Sailing team earned eighth place in Rolando de Aguiar
the ICSA National Sloop 
Championship. Skippered by Watts Club Corner 
Hudgens, the Irish team fought 
through three grueling days of 
sailing. 
Notre Dame faced nine of the top teams in the country at this regatta, including eventual champion Charleston. The teams competing in Annapolis came from such geographically diverse locations as Connecticut and Hawaii. Indeed, the Irish were one of only two clubs at the regatta which hailed from a landlocked state. Miami of Ohio placed tenth in the championship. 
The National Sloop Championship was raced in J-24s, which are much larger than the FJs which the Irish usually sail. In fact, the team had never sailed a J-24 until three hours of practice time readied them for the competition. 
Needless to say, the differences between the keels and weights of the two boats was difficult for the team to master. 
"Imagine the difference between a Cadillac and a Porsche," said Hudgens. "They both can reach high speeds, but the Porsche handles much differently than the Caddy." 
The Irish established themselves as a collegiate sailing force at this regatta, and they hope to continue their improvement in the future. 
"We established ourselves this year," said freshman Michael Kane. The Irish have completed their season for 1990, but will host a regatta on St. Joseph's Lake after Spring Break. 
Notre Dame Crew enjoyed a successful weekend at the Frostbite Regatta as the men's novice crew placed second out of 32. 
Several of the top programs in the country competed in Philadelphia, including tbe University of Pennsylvania, who beat out the Irish by a mere .3 seconds. 
Katura Jones once again pro­vided a spark off the Irish

Women 
continued from page 24 
Even with McGrade hounding her all over the court, Robinson ended up leading Notre Dame in scoring with 18. Davis added 16, and Nowlin 14. 

Bill, Is This Your Birthday Suit? 
A Legal Adult Wouldn't 
Do Thisl Happy 2ll 
Love, Kerry and the Boys from Manov Lane 
New, Spacious and Conveniently Located 
• NO Security Deposit or Administrative Fee +CONVENIENTLY LOCATED Near Notre Dame, 
University Park Mall and Grape Road +ON SITE MANAGER 



* 
J North Side of Douglas Rd. Between Grape Rd. & St. Rd. 
Mishawaka. Ind. 
~~~--~--------~---­

bench, scoring 13 points, grab­bing four rebounds, and playing good interior defense. 
"Katura's playing some great ball now," Weber said. "She's eventually going to become a powerhouse for us; after this trip to California, she really made a statement." 
Notre Dame continues its homestand Saturday afternoon at 2 p.m. against Syracuse (3­3). The Orangewomen come into the game off a 72-63 loss at Canisius Wednesday night. 
fhe Orangewomen are led by sophomore center Holly Oslander with 16.0 points and 
7.5 rebounds per game as of the Canisius game. Two other Syracuse players average in double figures, Erin Kenneally 
(10.4 ppg) and Davita Smith 
(10.2 ppg). 
Syracuse is not especially strong on the glass, being outrebounded by an average of 11 boards per game. 
The Orangewomen are not good free throw shooters, going 59 for 107 (55.1 percent) for the year, as well as only 43.8 percent from the field. 
Although the Irish enter the contest in the midst of a three­game losing streak, Weber be­lieves it's far from the time to push the panic button. 
"Our biggest thing right now is we really have to turn and focus on ourselves," Weber said. "We're coming off three losses in a row to three really good teams, and that's what our players have to understand. 
"These aren't just scrappy teams that we're losing to. We're losing to good teams, and they got to keep their heads up, because we have an entire season to go through." 
Heart Attack. Fight it with a Men1orial gift to the American Heart Association. 
\ I 1 page 18 The Observer Friday, December 7, 1990 
'i Aging Celtics riding huge surge Ex-Blue Jay Bell headed 
BOSTON (AP) -Larry Bird turns 34 Friday, but he ran like a rookie and scored 43 points against the speedy Denver Nuggets just two nights earlier. 
Seven-foot, 37-year-old cen­ter Robert Parish is the NBA's oldest player, but he stole a ball behind the midcourt line and outsprinted would-be defenders to the basket for an easy layup. He had 25 points and 14 re­bounds. 
Kevin McHale, who will be 33 on Dec. 19, had 19 points and eight rebounds and baffied the Nuggets with his array of inside moves. 
The Boston Celtics ended up with their lOth win in 11 games. Their record is 14-3, second best in the NBA and their best start since 1985-86 whim they won their last title. 
Revitalized veterans and en­thusiastic and talented young­sters have turned around the decline of the tradition-rich franchise. 
But Wednesday night's 148­140 victory was against a team with the league's second worst record. And the Celtics had to struggle to get it after being tied with 5:35 left. 
In their last five games, the only team with a winning record the Celtics faced was Philadelphia, and the 76ers won. 
On Friday night, they begin a three-game road trip in Dallas, 6-9 after losing its last three. But then the Celtics play at San Antonio and Houston before returning home for games 
for Wrigley after signing 
pick up playing in the friendly confines of Wrigley Field. 
Toronto selected Bell from the Philadelphia Phillies organization in 1978 and he went on to become the club's all-time leader in home runs and RBis. 
It was the Cubs' second major free-agent acquisition of the off-season. On Nov. 21, they signed left-hander Danny Jackson to a four-year deal for $10.5 million. 
Bell's career in Toronto was marked by some troubled times with managers and the fans. 
Bell, a three-time All-Star, balked when manager Jimy Williams wanted to make him a designated hitter and was often booed by the fans when he hit a slump. Bell gave it back, though, claiming the fans were jealous of his salary. 
In his nine seasons, Bell has made 77 errors in the outfield for an untidy average of 8.5 a season. He will have less ground to cover at Wrigley Field, however. 
Bell helped the Blue Jays win the AL East in 1985 and 1987. but had only one homer and three RBis in 48 playoff at-bats. 
The acquisition of Bell may lead to another deal for Chicago. 


ROSEMONT, Ill. (AP) -A bitter George Bell said good riddance to the Blue Jays on Thursday when he signed a $9.8 million, three-year con­tract with the Chicago Cubs. 
"We're just thrilled to have a quality player like George Bell," Cubs general manager Jim Frey said. "Since late in the season, we've been talking about what we could do to help our club." 
Bell, a free agent, won the MVP award in 1987 when he hit .308 with 47 home runs and 134 RBis. 
The Blue Jays lost interest in re-signing the left fielder when they acquired outfielder Joe Carter along with second baseman Roberto Alomar from San Diego on Wednesday for Fred McGriff and Tony Fernandez. 
Bell, 31, now joins former Montreal star Andre Dawson in the Cubs outfield. Dawson won the National League MVP in his first season with Chicago. 
With Toronto, Bell hit 202 homers and drove in 740 runs. He has a lifetime aver­age of .286. 
Bell's numbers slipped a bit

is based on a running game clipboard to the floor when 
last season as he hit . 265 with 

spearheaded by young point McHale failed to box out 21 homers and 86 RBis.
guards Brian Shaw and Dee Orlando Woolridge. 
Following his spectacular sea­Brown and some fine shooting. "That," Ford said, "was just 

son in 1987, Bell has av­

They lead the league in field to get their attention." 
eraged only 21 home runs thegoal percentage, and their 148 The Celtics have feasted on last three years. That shouldpoints were a season high. But the NBA's weaker teams, win­


the 140 were the most they've ning all eight of their games 

Friday, December 7, 1990 The Observer 
Purdue selects new head coach 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -Itwon't be the run-and-shoot offense of his predecessor, but new Purdue football coach Jim Colletto promises a familiar look to the Boilermakers' offense. 
Colletto, the former offensive coordinator at Ohio State, signed a five-year contract to coach Purdue on Thursday and said he planned to junk the run-and-shoot offense that pro­duced a 2-9 record this year and led to the resignation of Fred Akers only one week ear­lier. 
The Boilermakers netted only 612 yards rushing this past season, an average of 1.0 per carry and 55.6 per game. 
"I think the things we have to do are the same things I've done for a lot of years in coaching; get back to some of the things I believe in, in terms of running the football," said Colletto, who was the offensive coordinator at Purdue from 1982-84 and has been an assis­tant or head football coach since graduating from UCLA in 1967. 
The offense that they're going to see here is going to be very similar to what we did here with (quarterbacks Jim) Everett and (Scott) Campbell. It's not going to be anything new," Colletto told the news conference where he was intro­duced as Purdue's new coach. 
Colletto anticipates a busy three weeks in his new job, meeting his players, selecting a staff and launching an active recruiting program. 
He was meeting with his play­ers Thursday afternoon and also planned to have several meetings with individuals. 
"I don't really know a lot about the football players as an ability level," Colletto said. "I think there are some good players here." 
One player he definitely hopes to retain is quarterback Eric Hunter, who had indicated he might consider leaving the Boilermakers if he wasn't happy with the new coach. 
"One gentleman I'm going to talk to individually will be Eric. If he has any recollection of history here and wants to play in an offense that featured a young man (Everett) that's playing in the NFL very suc­cessfully with the Los Angeles Rams, the quarterback was a very focal part of that football team and will be in future teams here," Colletto said. 
Athletic Director George King said Colletto, 46, had been given a five-year contract at a salary of $110,000 and would also receive additional income from other areas such as shoe contracts, radio and television shows. 
Assembling a staff to rebuild a program that hasn't had a winning season since it went 7­5, included a loss to Virginia in the Peach Bowl, in his final year with. the Boilermakers is a major priority. 
''I'm going to talk to all the coaches on the present staff. There are some I know person­ally and I'm sure there may be some that I would select to re­main here," Colletto said. 

The Observer/David lee 

N~w Purdue head coach Jim Collette hopes Boilermaker quarterback Enc Hunter (9) doesn't decide to jump ship. 
P~ at Saeud ~~ ~ s~ SeyuUut <¥ "~ 
~,'D~K 5.-oo ~tM ?re. p~ L~, e.s.e. S~,'D~9 10:00 a. ~-~'8~, S.fl. 11:45 a. ~-7~ ~, e.s.e. 









PARSONS 
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Summer Programs 


FRANCE WEST AFRICA ITALY GREAT BRITAIN NEW YORK 
International programs are offered for students, teachers and working professionals. Courses include: archaeology, archi­tectural history, art history, ceramics, decorative arts,drawing, fashion, fiber, metal and surface design, graphic design, painting, andphotography. Undergraduateandgraduatecredits areavailabletoqualifiedstudents. Formoreinfurmation,please mail the coupon below or call: 
Parsons Office of Special Programs: (2U) 741-8975 ext 16 
Parsons School of Design, Office ofSpecial Programs 66 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. lOOU 
Please send me a brochure on Parsons Special Summer Programs. 
Name ___________________________________ 
Address -------------------------------­
City --------State ___ Zip ___ 
Phone ___________________________________ 
CP34 

page 20 The Observer Friday, December 7, 1990 

Tyson wants to
SMC swimmers need 
SPORTS BRIEFS The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute will hold belt testing on Sunday. Dec. 9 from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne 
prove that he's 

boost from Thompson 
Memorial Gym. Visitors are welcome. 
still 'Iron Mike'
By EMILY WILLETT In college, it's a combination of 
Attention all crew members: extremely important meeting
Sports Writer both. I've found a niche that I ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) ­Tuesday, Dec. 11 at 7:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. Everyone mustreally like in that I can perform 
Many people in boxing and
attend. Anyone who is absent please drop off $30 to 359 Alumni. 
After beginning the season on an individual level as well as 
many fans look at Alex Stewart with several strong perfor­with the team." 
Checkbooks not required for meeting. 
as a test for Mike Tyson to mances. Bethany Thompson, a Bethany began swimming as prove he's still Iron Mike. 
Students, faculty and staff attending the Orange Bowl are
sophomore on the Saint Mary's a child in summer leagues in encouraged to participate in the SeaEscape lOK run on Dec. 29. 
Stewart. however. looks at
swim team, feels she still has a the South. Her sister swam. and Sponsored by the Miami Runners Club, the race costs just $12 ($15 the fight Saturday night at thelot of work ahead of her to founded Bethany's interest in if registration is after Dec. 23). Awards, refreshments and T-Shirts Convention Center as a test forreach the level she hopes to the sport. Following her sister, will be provided. Call 1-800-940-4RUN or (305) 227-1500 for more Alex Stewart.
perform at this year. she began to swim year-round information. 
"This can set my life
"I feel like I'm ahead of my­and hasn't stopped. self this season. I've started off For the Belles, she swims dis­
straight; they'll say, 'Here is 
strong. but still have a lot of work to do," Bethany said. 
She feels her attitude has played an important role in her performance. 
"I came into this season hop­ing to have fun. That attitude has kept me relaxed, and there­fore. improved my perfor­mance," she explained. 
At Saint Mary's Bethany has the opportunity to excel both individually and through the team. This results in personal satisfaction as well as a sense of team unity. 
"When I swam when I was young, the competition stressed individual performance," Bethany said. "In high school, competition was team oriented. 
tance events, the individual medley, and the backstroke. At last weekend's National Catholic meet, she placed 16th in the 1650 freestyle. 

The Saint Mary's swimming and diving team takes on Albion in its first dual meet of the season tonight at Rolf Aquatic Center at 6:00 p.m. The meet should test the versatility of the swimmers in different events as well as the depth of the team. 
"The team should do well against Albion," Bethany said. "There is a possibility to set school records in the relays. It's a good meet to kick off the season and see how the team can perform." 
\ 

' \ Belles need to cut ( down on turnovers 
By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's sports editor 
! : \ The Saint Mary's basketball team has been working to
\ ~ 
improve its new fast-break offense this season.
~· 
But the new strategy has

\. 
\ produced unforeseen difficulties 
I 
for the Belles, namely poor shooting and costly turnovers. 
The Belles, 4-2 after dropping their second game of the season Wednesday night, were routed by Calvin College 70-50. From the start of the game, the team was unable to ignite its offense. 
~ 
' 
Shooting at a poor 31 percent 
\ 
from the field, compared to Calvin's 40 percent, the Belles
~ 
l 
I trailed throughout the game. "Offensively, we'll have to get 
it together and get those 
I turnovers down and shooting percentages up." said Belles head coach Marv Wood. "We need a minimum of 40 percent

l' ( 
to be a winner," 
But that's not all the Belles will have to improve upon. As they look to Saturday night's home game against Division II University of Indianapolis. they realize that turnovers. such as the 24 committed in Wednesday night's game, must be controlled. The Belles will also have to improve their rebounding. Calvin outrebounded the Belles 50-35. 

"We had too many turnovers. We'd cause them to turn the ball over, but before we got the ball down the court we'd give it right back," added Wood. 

The team is looking to Saturday night's game as a chance to bet back on the right track. But the Belles also realize that it will be tough. Indianapolis has strong perimeter shooters, but the Saint Mary's players hope their defense will contain their opponents' attack. 
"They are strong in their conference and lhey have a lot of experience from last year," said Wood. "But our defensive quickness will be our strength. 
Irish to host Bowling Green 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame swim teams will complete a five-meet home­stand when Bowling Green vis­its the Rolfs Aquatic Center Saturday at 1 p.m. 
The Irish men's and women's squads are fresh off last week­end's double-victory in the National Catholic Championships. The men pulled ahead of LaSalle in the final re­lay to edge the Explorers 7 54 1/2-752 last Saturday, while the women led throughout much of the tournament and finished more than 100 points ahead of Villanova. which finished in second place. 
This weekend will mark the 25th time the Irish men's team has squared off against Bowling Green. The Falcons lead the series 16-8, but Notre Dame won last year's meeting by a score of 129-93 behind Brian Rini's two first-place finishes. 
The women, meanwhile. will try to avenge last year's 151­149 defeat at the hands of the Falcons. In that meet Notre Dame star Tanya Williams led her team's cause with four in­dividual victories, including University records in the 200­yard butterfly and the 400-yard individual medley. 
Give to the United Way. 
... 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
____A JOHN WATERS FILM ____ _ 

JOHNNY DEPP 
H~'s adoll. He's adreamboat. He's adelinquent. 
IMAGINE E.mi1'AINMF.Xr rm."CKY·BABr AMY UlCANE•SUS.4N MBDL·ICGY roP RICKJIAKE •TRACl WillS.. roiLY BERGEN~ .....,..._BECKY MANCUS(f..TillS~ l!':: PATRICKflillAMS 
i:JIM ABRAHAMS IWANWZER ·-mCHELTALAIAY 
~-=:-mil. I~Siltlf~-t=J(lHNI'ATERS ~ 
Cinema at the Snlte 
TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:30,9:30 

Williams will lead the women once again this weekend. The sophomore sensation qualified for the NCAA Championships in the National Catholics with times of 2:02.29 in the 200-yard individual medley and 4:20.93 in the 400-yard individual medley. 
Alex Stewart, and he's a fighter to contend with," he said Wednesday. 
It will be only the second fight for Tyson since he lost the heavyweight title on a stunning 10th-round knockout to James "Buster" Douglas Feb. 11, and his 167-second knockout of light-hitting Henry Tillman on June 16 answered no questions. 
The 26-year-old Stewart cer­tainly has power, scoring all 26 of his victories by knockout. 
He is ranked No. 4 by both the International Boxing Federation and the World Boxing Association and No. 7 by the World Boxing Council. 
In his only venture against a world-class opponent, however, he was stopped in the eighth round by now-champion Evander Holyfield on Nov. 4. 1989. 
the rsian gulf t-shirts 
2-color design on a high-quality 100% cotton t-shirt. sizes: medium, large, x-large send your name, quantity and size plus your check or money order for $12.95 per shirt to: 
dove promotions p.o. box 1904 south bend, in 46634 
allow 2 to 4 weeks for delivery CCl 1990 dove productions 
Some employers promise you the world We offer you achance 
to make tlie world better 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cress Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
Friday, December 7, 1990 The Observer page 21 
Zadra's hustle helps ND in current winning string 

NEW YORK (AP) -Ty Detmer, the third straight junior winner of the Heisman Trophy, claimed his award Thursday, saying he'll be back for another season if not for another statue. 
"It'll be a different team and a whole new season," the BYU quarterback said. "We're losing quite a few players. We've got a young team next year. I'm going to enjoy it now, while it's here." 
Archie Griffin, the Heisman winner in 1974 and 1975, is the only player to win the award twice. Ironically, two of Detmer's chief rivals for the trophy this year -Houston's David Klingler and Notre Dame's Raghib "Rocket" Ismail -are also juniors. 
Detmer rode a string of 23 consecutive 300-yard games to college football's most presti­gious award. His resume in­cludes 25 NCAA passing or total offense records that he has set or tied. The 13th-ranked Cougars (10-2) will meet Texas A&M in the Holiday Bowl on Dec. 29. 
He recalled the moments be­fore he found out he had won it last Saturday night. 
"Right before, I felt a rush of adrenaline and my stomach turning," he said. "Then you hear your name. It was a great feeling. I was surprised because you don't want to get your hopes up." 
It was the ultimate prize for a player who, at 6-foot, 175 pounds, often was criticized as being undersized. Is he? "I hear that I am," he said. "If I sat around wishing I was bigger, I probably couldn't play." 
In fact, though, he once was told exactly that -that he couldn't play because he was too small. That was in junior high in San Antonio. Detmer's solution was to repeat the sev­enth grade. 
"I was a junior high school redshirt," he said. Did it help? "Scholastically, it did," he 
said. "It gave me confidence." And athletically? "Instead of small, I was av­erage," he said. 
When Detmer decided he was going to be a quarterback. he went shopping for the appro­priate program rather than waiting to be recruited. "I committed before my senior year in high school," he said. "I recruited them because of the quarterback situation." 
Passing still wasn't the most popular method of moving the ball in the late '80s, with many teams opting for the option or 1­formation. Detmer went shopping for a place where he wouldn't spend his time hand­ing off. 
"I just sort of dropped in on them," he said of his unsolicited visit to BYU. "They had heard of me. They were interested." 
Detmer, who had done his homework, knew that BYU and Miami had the most air-ori­ented offenses. 
By RICH KURZ Sports Writer 
When Notre Dame hockey coach Ric Schafer speaks of ju­nior left wing Lou Zadra he is full of praise and admiration. 
"He's a very valuable player," says Schafer. "He's the heart and soul of the team. He's the guy we can count on to provide skill and toughness." 
So far this season, Zadra has proved to be quite valuable of­fensively for the Irish. He is tied for the team lead in goals with eight and is third on the team in total points with 13. 
Zadra has piled up these numbers despite being shuffied around, filling gaps wherever Schafer needs him. 
"He has been moved around a lot," says Schafer. "He's changed positions, he's changed lines. He's killed penalties and he's been in on the power play." 
Throughout all of these situ­ations, Zadra has thrived. He has scored on the power play (once) and shorthanded (twice), and he's even scored a game­winner (against UMass-Boston). 
The versatile roles he has played suit Zadra just fine. 
"(My role is) just going out and doing what I need to do. Whatever is needed, I try to ad­just and do," he says. 
According to Zadra, his role on the team goes beyond just scoring goals and making checks. 
"(I'm a) vocal leader," he says, "somebody who can bring the team up, when we're going bad." 
His prep background obvi­ously prepared Zadra well for the rigors of collegiate hockey. The Catholic Memorial team he played for won the Massachusetts Division I State Championship three years in a row, including the team he cap­tained his senior year. 
"It was a big step up to col­lege hockey, but (playing for a top high school team) has helped me adjust," he says. "It was a good crop of players, guys who play for Harvard and BU." 
Zadra made an immediate contribution to the Notre Dame hockey program as a freshman, 
ADVENT & CHRISTMAS AT FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH 
SUNDAY OPPORTUNITIES 
8:45AM  Celebration worship Service (45 min)  
9:30AM  Refreshments in the Gathering Room  
9:50AM  "Sojourner" Sunday School Fellowship  
11:00 AM  Traditional Worship Service (1 hr)  

CHRISTMAS EVE SERVICES 
7:00PM "Family Celebration" 
11:00 PM "Candlelight Celebration" 

First United Methodist Church-333 N. Main (across from Burger King) 
WE.RE HAPPY TO PROVIDE TRANSPORTATION 
Call us during the week at 233-9463 (Mon-Fri, 8am-5pm) 
playing in 32 of 38 games, 
scoring five goals and seven as­
sists. He really came into his 
own as a sophomore, however, 
finishing third on the team in 
scoring with 17 goals and 19 
assists. 
According to Zadra, this team 
compares favorably with the 
teams of the past two years. 
"We have four solid lines, and 
even four sets of defe·nsemen. 
We would never lose a game by 
fatigue. The goaltending is the 
same, if not better, with Greg 
Louder. 
"We should make the inde­
pendent tournament, and pos­
sibly the NCAA Tournament," 
he says. 
Lake Forest (8-1) is the im­mediate concern of Zadra and the Fighting Irish (7-5-1), however. Friday's game against the Foresters marks the first time the Irish will be on the road in its last six matches, a period which saw Notre Dame win six straight games, its longest win streak in three years. 
Zadra doesn't think the road 
trip will affect the play of the 
Irish. 
"We've had a good week of practice, (and) it's only a three­hour bus trip," he says. 
The Irish beat Lake Forest all 
four times they played last sea­
son, but Coach Schafer is not 
counting the Foresters out. 
"I've always respected them," says Schafer. "There hasn't been a bad Lake Forest team since I've been here. They have a possible NCAA Division III berth, and they would like to beat Division I Notre Dame. It should be an interesting matchup." 
Lake Forest beat Kent State, the only common opponent the two teams have so far this sea­son, whom the Irish beat and tied in two games earlier this year. 
The Foresters are led by Doug Bowman who has three goals and seven assists on the season. and Robert Ventura, who has seven goals in Lake Forest's nine games. 
Schafer is counting on the leadership of the veterans to keep the team focused for these final two games before the Christmas break. 
"The upperclassman won't take it lightly," he promises. 
NOTES: After Friday's game, the two teams will return to play Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at the Joyce ACC. ..The Irish just added the University of Wisconsin Badgers to next year's home schedule. The Badgers were the NCAA Champions last season, and should be a big draw. When the 
mAKS~ PRIME RIB~ ;t.;C,1
SEAFOOD ~tct:D ~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday Brunch 100 Center-Mishawaka 219-259-9925 


ICE WALKER CLEATS 
® 
EASY SLIP ON-OFF FOR CASUAl SHOES OR BOOTS 
.. 
PERFECT FOR ICY SIDEWALKS 
No one wants to suffer the pain, 
loss ol moblllly and Doctor bills 
thai can result from a fall on ice. These uniquely designed cleats are the safe & economical answer· Ice gripping heel & toe plates with serrations attached by a rubbflr strap that stays fleJCible In cotd weather 
S..nd$1995 • SJOOs&hlo Non SUp 
Products, 19205 W Clarendon Ave .. 
Litchfield Park. AZ 853•0 Pluse 
s~rly t/toe or boot srze Allow 2·3 
weeks lor delillery . 

..,
-------~------~-~-------------­
page 22 The Observer Friday, December 7, 1990 
Notre Dame wrestlers to begin dual meets this weekend 

By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team pins down the start of its dual-meet season today with a road trip to Illinois State and a home-stand against Missouri on Sunday at 2 p.m. at the Joyce ACC. 
The two dual meets are the first of the 1990 season for the Irish, who have solely competed in tournaments thus far. 
"So far this season, we have been primarily involved in tour­naments," said Notre Dame head coach Fran McCann. "The reason for that is that compet­ing in a tournament allows us to bring more of our kids along, and the tournaments provide us with lots of competition in a short period of time. 
"I like tournaments because we are so young that they help us to progress. We have made good progress so far. I think that we're all right. This is a young team, and each tourna­ment we have been improving. That is the way it will be with a young team and tough tourna­ments. Each tournament we've been in, we have stepped up the level of competition." 
Despite the relative youth of the Irish, they have recorded impressive decisions in the three tournaments they have participated in to date. 
At the season-opening Michigan State Invitational, four Notre Dame wrestlers ­Marcus Gowens, Jamie Boyd, Todd Layton and Steve King ­seized championships in their weight-classes, while Chuck Weaver placed second and Emil Soehnlen and Mark Gerardi placed third in their respective 


~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~ 
1 MEAL FULL PRICE 
COMPARABLE MEAL HALF PRICE ! 
r;::--~-----------­
~ 6i) ' 
"Since 1981" 

PASTA DISHES ~ 
LASAGNA .,
~1.i~~~~ALFREDD ...• l~ 
~~~M~~H •
0 111
CACCIATORE 

COCKTAILS "Th I ,. \ BEER • WINE Dinner 4PM-11PM e • ta 1011 " 
' ~ BANQUET OPEN SUN & Cloeed Mon Rrstorante 
0 

~.. ROOM 219 . 232·4244:;::: • 
'9j~ South 01 Notre Damps' Goldpn Domp ~~·-f4f2 Soultt Bend AvpnuP 
1 

...The University of Notre Dan1e Cordially invites all Graduate Students to the 
GRADUATE STUDENT CHRISTMAS PARTY 
I I, ,," To be held in 
;j, 
Wilson Commons' Lounge r Friday, December 7, 1990 . l') 8:17P.M. To 12:58 A.M. 
. i 
weight-classes. At the more competitive St. Louis Open, Gerardi won the 167-pound di­vision, while freshman J.J. McGrew placed fourth at 177 pounds. 
The last time the Irish wres­tled was at the prestigious Las Vegas Invitational. At that tournament, Gowens (126) claimed seventh place, while McGrew (177) finished eighth. 
Unfortunately for Notre Dame, Mark Gerardi has re­portedly not fully recovered from an ankle injury which sidelined him at the Las Vegas Invitational. Gerardi, among many other accomplishments, was a qualifier for last year's NCAA Championships. 
"Mark is not at 100 percent just yet," noted McCann. "It is up to him whether he competes this weekend. He will have to get some competition soon, but we are not sure how he will perform right away." 
When asked about the upcoming dual meet with Illinois State, coach McCann was realistic, yet optimistic. 
"This is an important dual meet for us. They have a solid program and they are always in good shape. In fact, they used to dominate us until recently. This meet is very important for us -even critical -because it is in our region and will have an affect on our seeding in the re­gional tournament at the end of the year." 
Illinois State holds a 6-4 edge over Notre Dame in the lifetime series between the two schools, with the Irish having won four of the last five matches. This year's meet marks the eighth consecutive year of competition between the Redbirds and the 


The Observer!Oavid Lee The Irish wrestlers will begin their dual-meet season vs. Illinois State and Missouri this weekend. 
Fighting Irish. Also, Notre Dame won six of the first seven matches at last year's tourna­ment in the process of record­ing a 23-12 victory. The Redbirds' last win was a 24-17 decision over the Irish in 1986­
87. The match is the dual-meet season opener for Illinois State as well. 
The match between Notre Dame and Missouri does not reach back so far. Last year's meeting -a 25-15 Irish victory -marked the first time that the two teams had met. Thus far
,\" ,, ,,, 
~,:.~
• ... ,. to the United Way 
this season, Missouri has beaten SIU-Edwardsville 35-0 and lost to third-ranked Nebraska 25-9. 
"Missouri will be our first home dual meet," stated McCann. "I would rate it as a toss-up because we were even with them in too many matches last year -we split the last two [190-pound and Heavyweight]. They have improved since last year. They looked very good at Las Vegas, and they had a good dual meet with Nebraska. It should be an interesting match 
SUPER 
LITE. 
SUPER 

because it could come down to the last two matches if it is close." 
Steve King (190) and Chuck Weaver (Heavyweight) are the wrestlers of choice for Notre Dame at the final two positions. 
McCann, meanwhile, asked for a show of fan support for the first home match of the season. 
"We're making progress," said McCann. "It is important that people take interest in us. We are a young team and we need lots of help to develop." 
Vasque·s Vanable Ftt System~ makes these the best fn:ung. most comfortable super lttes around You get a custom fit. plus a boot oes!gned to stabthze the foot. control fc;t roll and cush1on shock Come tn narrow. med1um and wtde Try on a patr today 
FIT 
WITHV.ES: 


--------R~------­
5776-SZ Grape Rd. 
RedWing

Indian Rid11e Piau :U9-27Z-0179 
Shoe Store 



Friday, December 7, 1990 The Observer page 23 
,.
CAMPUS Friday ACROSS 29 Key &2 Roue 
4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "Parity Violation in Nuclear Sys­composition &3 Vigor
1 Boston-­
tems," Dr. Gary Mitchell, North Carolina State University. 33 Uncompromis-64 
FrameworkOrchestra
Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by De­ing
5 Laze under rays 
partment of Physics, College of Science. 37 Sticky situation 
9 Figures on a 39 Tittlemicrocomputer
7 p.m. 18th Annual Madrigal Christmas Dinners, Regina 40--memoires
screen Hall North, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Saint (summaries)
14 Inland sea Mary's College. 41 Examination
15 Cetacean 42 Infatuated with: 
16 Like hillbilly 

7:30p.m. and 9:30p.m. Film, "Cry Baby." Annenberg Au­Slang
speechditorium. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and 44 Winesap
17 Farm sight Theatre. 18 Approach 45 Commodity 
46 Signet

19 Bowling unit 
8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film, "Die Hard 2." Cushing Audi­
20 Chief honcho 48 Sting
toriull].. Sponsored by the Student Union Board. 
50 Appeared
22 Lapsed 

55 Bewildered
23lsolate

8:10 p.m. Mainstage Season Play, "Accidental Death of 
24 Neophyte 58 Gossip medium 
an Anarchist." Directed by Mark Pilkinton. (For further 
26Speck 61 Cultivates
information please call 219-239-5956.) Sponsored by 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
9:15 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. International conference, "The ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Transition to Democracy in Paraguay: Problems and 

10 Redhead 
Prospects," Call the Center for Continuing Education for 
11 To dare,in 
further information. 
Durango 32 Spy 47 Mien 54 Populous12 Reputation 55 Planetary paths 
Saturday 
33 Envy and pride 49 Heron's relative 13 Luge, e.g. 
5& Bluish duck 

9 a.m. to 5 p.m. International conference, "The Transi­
34 Tipster

21 Hale of 51 Program listing 57 Actress
tion to Democracy in Paraguay: Problems. and 
"Gilligan's 35 The Sundance 52 Ryun, for one Thompson
Prospects," Call the Center for Continuing Education for 
Island" Kid's gal 
further information. 
53 Maternally 59 Choice 25 Chatters 3& Boo's cousin 
related 60 Analogous27 River formed at 38---beche Pittsburgh (philately term) 
28 -operandi 40 Incite 
Answers to any three clues in this 3D Trigon or 43 Pseudonyms puzzle are available by touch-tone clarsach 44 Aweather's phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 31 Etcetera's kin opposite minute). 
MENUS 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Baked Pollock Sesame Seafood Enchiladas 
New England Clam Chowder Cantonese Pineapple Turkey 
Swedish Meatballs Beef Ragout Burgundy 
Pork Tenderloin Sandwich Deli Bar 
Vegetable Rice Cass~role 
.. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
r-------------------------------------~ 
HYPOCHONDRIA 




The prenatal development of Curly 
DIE HARD 2: DIE HARDER Cushing Auditorium Friday, December 7 Saturday, December 8 ~ ~ Admission: $2 Times: 8:00 and 10:30 P.M.  The Exotic Birds ~ Friday, December 7, 1990 ~ Stepan Center 7:30-9:30 P.M. Admission: $3 Student I $4 Other STUDENT UNION BOARD  

Sports 
page 24 Friday, December 7, 1990 
Late free throws help Hoosiers edge Irish, 79-76 


By RENE FERRAN with 43 seconds left. etrated the lane. forcing the Sports Writer Indiana (6-0) pulled the ball Irish to double-team. Indiana out to run the clock down, but then was able to find the open 
Last night. for the second the strategy appeared to back­player for an easy basket or a time in eight days, an Indiana fire when Douglas missed down foul. For the game, Indiana shot University basketball team low. and then grabbed Nowlin 51 percent (27-53) from the came into the Joyce ACC and on the rebound. field and 23 for 36 from the pulled out a tough victory over After a Hoosier timeout, line. Notre Dame. Nowlin missed the front end of "You can't let a team shoot 36 
This time, it was the Hoosier the one-and-one. Davis fouled free throws," Weber said. women who came through Douglas going for the rebound, "We've got to keep from giving down the stretch. Dawn and Douglas hit both free them free points from the line." Douglas's lay-up with 1:40 re­throws. Indiana's pressure man-to­maining put Indiana up for The Irish (1-3) had two man defense also caused some good, and then her two free chances to tie in the final 12 problems for the Irish. Notre throws with 12 seconds left seconds, but Robinson missed Dame committed 12 turnovers gave the Hoosiers the 79-76 badly from the right wing. and in the first half and 20 for the victory. Comalita Haysbert's despera­game. 
Douglas's go-ahead score tion shot at the buzzer was just "We have to start getting came after Karen Robinson un­short. more aggressive with the ball," characteristically missed a "We came out with a game Weber said. close-in shot. The Irish quickly plan in terms of the defenses The Irish came out fired up at came back down court, but we were going to run." said the start of the second half, Margaret Nowlin missed a Irish assistant coach Kathleen scoring the first seven points to tough five-footer. Weber, "but we didn't execute. retake the lead 44-43. Neither 
Comalita Haysbert fouled It comes down to a couple of team led by more than four Hoosier point guard Kris free throws in the end, but {the points after that, with 15 lead McGrade with 1:04 left. game) was clearly lost in the changes taking place, the last McGrade calmly sank both free first half." on Douglas' lay-up. throws to give Indiana a three­Indiana led for most of the For Indiana, Zan Jeffries led point lead. first half, with the margin all scorers with 22 points, while 
On their next possession, the growing to as much as eight Douglas chipped in 15, Lori Irish punched the ball inside to points with 7:30 left, before Meinerding 14-12 in the first Krissi Davis, who was fouled by settling for a 43-37 halftime half-and Owens 13. Pam Owens. Davis made both advantage. shots to cut the lead to 77-76 The Hoosiers constantly pen-see WOMEN I page 17 
Notre Dame hits road vs. No. 8 UCLA 
By GREG GUFFEY Bruins 114-56. Notre Dame will take just Sports Editor But the Irish have since nine scholarship players to Los established a history of playing Angeles. Singleton will be 
While he isn't about to write well against good UCLA teams. examined again in six weeks this season off, Notre Dame They stopped the Bruins' and, if no progress is made, he basketball coach Digger Phelps record 88-game winning streak will most likely undergo is already looking to the future. in 1974 with a 71-70 victory surgery. 
His team, 2-5 and in the and have won the last three Daimon Sweet, the irish m.dst of a five-game losing games and five of the last six scoring leader at 16.0 points streak, will play at eighth­meetings in the series. per game, will pair with fellow ranked UCLA Saturday (7:30 "It's no different than when Texan Elmer Bennett (15.0 ppg) 
p.m. EST). The Irish have been you step up to home plate in in the starting lineup at guard. without sophomore Monty Yankee Stadium," Phelps said. Kevin Ellery, normally the sixth Williams all season and are "I don't know of a player who man, will probably start at now playing minus senior cap­doesn't want to play well in forward with LaPhonso Ellis. tain Tim Singleton, who is out Yankee Stadium because of the Junior Keith Tower will still be at least six weeks after injuring legends that have played in the middle. his back last Saturday against there." With Singleton gone, Phelps Kentucky. The Bruins have no legends will look to freshman Brooks 
"They're going to go through on this year's team, but they do Boyer to play a bigger role at an experience the rest of this have lots of talent and depth. point guard off the bench. He season that will make them bet­All five starters average in played 23 minutes and scored a ter people," Phelps said of his double figures, led by forward career-high 10 points against players. "I like the challenge we Don MacLean at 25.5 points Kentucky and followed that have right now, and I think the and 7.8 rebounds per game. with seven points in 26 minutes kids do." Guard Darrick Martin and for­Monday night at Butler. 
It will definitely be a chal­ward Tracy Murray score 16.5 The biggest key for the Irish lenge against the Bruins, un­ppg, followed by forward could be how they bounce back beaten at 5-0 and winners of Mitchell Butler at 10.8 ppg and from the 14-point loss at Butler the Great Alaska Shootout ear­guard Gerald Madkins at 10.5 on Monday night, a game they lier in the season. They also ppg. should have won on paper. have the luxury of playing at "They had a lot of confidence "The most important thing is home in storied Pauley Pavilion. coming off of last season when to just get ready for the next 
Phelps has also come a long they made it to the regional and game," Phelps said. "You can't 
The Observer/Pat Kusek 
way since his first visit to lost to Duke," Phelps said. look back. You don't worry "They've got a lot of people that about what you didn't do. You Notre Dame captain Tim Singleton may be lost for the whole season if
Pauley Pavilion 20 years ago. when his first Notre Dame team can play the game. They're very just have to worry about going his knee needs surgery. lost to John Wooden and the deep." forward." 

Zorich becomes third ND player to win Lombardi Award 
HOUSTON (AP) -Notre defensive line coach. "He's 
Award last year when Michigan eighth in the nation in total de­Dame nose tackle Chris Zorich trying to whip the guy in front State's Percy Snow won the fense, allowing 272.9 yards per was selected Thursday night as of him every time the ball is honor. Zorich, a 6-foot, l-inch, game. the winner of the 21st snapped." 266-pound nose tackle, had 57 Lombardi Award as the nation's The Lombardi Award is tackles, three sacks and 11 Gardner, 6 feet, 2 inches and top college lineman. named in honor of Vince tackles for losses for the 258 pounds, missed the final 
Zorich beat out Outland Lombardi, former coach of the Fighting Irish this season. game of the season against Trophy winner Russell Green Bay Packers and Maryland, 6 feet, 2 inches Northwestern with a fractured Maryland of Miami, and tackles Washington Redskins. and 273 pounds, led the forearm, but still had 50 tack­David Rocker of Auburn and Lombardi died of cancer in Hurricane defense that ranked les, broke up eight passes, Moe Gardner of Illinois. 1970. third in the nation against the blocked a kick and got one 
"Playing nose tackle is like Maryland, a defensive tackle rush, allowing 79.7 yards per sack. being a fire hydrant in the mid­for the fourth-ranked game. He had 86 tackles and 10 dle of a dogfight," said Zorich, Hurricane, won the Outland on sacks and was a first team AP Ohio State linebacker Jim 
Chris Zorich 
who will lead the Fighting Irish Wednesday in Los Angeles, then All-America. Stillwagon won the first trophy against No. 1 Colorado in the flew to Houston for Thursday ists were defensive players. Rocker, whose brother Tracy in 1970 followed by Walt Orange Bowl on Jan. 1. night's awards dinner. He'll re­Sixteen of the past 20 winners won the 1988 award, had 7 5 Patulski, Notre Dame.Besides 
"He's a fierce competitor, and turn to the state to face third­were defenders. tackles, seven sacks and six Zorich and Patulski, the only it doesn't matter if it's practice ranked Texas in the Cotton Zorich, a two-time Associated tackles for losses for Auburn other Irish players to win the or a game," said John Palermo, Bowl. Press first team All-America, this season. Rocker headed an award was Ross Browner in Zorich's former Notre Dame All four 1990 Lombardi final-was a finalist for the Lombardi Auburn defense that ranked 1977. 






