

VOL XXIII NO. 37 TUESDAY , OCTOBER 16, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Proposal would hurt students 
Guaranteed Student Loans would be 'stingier' 
Wi\SIIINCTON (i\1') ­

• Democratic plan/ page 6 
Federal payments to 
doctors and hospitals would go down, driving up t·osts to patinnts. Tlw govPrnmPnt would lw lnss gt•nProus to l'arnwrs and roiiPgP studPnts. And, urHIPr tlw hudgl't dPal brPwing in CongrPss. a broad rangP ol' l'PPs would int'f'PasP -from tourists PntPring thP rountry to inVPntors filing for nl'W palPnlS. 
In l'arl. virtually all .\nH•rit·ans would Ill' ·likPiy to lind thPIIlSPIVl's digging dt'l'IWr into tlwir ptwkPts. 
l!udoll' I'PnnPr. a sPnior l'PIIow at tlw Urban Instil liLt' and l'ornwr dirt•clor or till' CongrPS­sional HudgPl Oflit't'. Sl'l'S a silwr lining t'OIH'PI'Iling tlw highl'r rosls: "Thl'y'rn lli'Ptly widl'spr!'ad. so tlwy shouldn't lw intl'nsl'ly fplf by arry partirular group or individual." 
Tht• proposals arP t·orrtainl'd in Sl'paraLP bud g(' t-(' ulli n g hi II s t hI' lltHISl' and S!'IHLIP an• gird­ing to dl'balP this Wl'l'k. TIH• parkagns an• airrlPd at paring lhP l'PdPral dPikit hy MO billion in tlw hudgPt ypar that l)f'gan Ort. I. by $500 billion owr tlw 1wxt livP yPars. 
So far, tlw Lax inrrnasns rontainl'd in tlw plans 

CLC votes to reinstate last year's band policy 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
ThP Campus l.il'n Counell ICI.C:) votnd unanimously to re1·omnwnd tlw I'Pinstate­mPnt of last year's band ad­vMtising polky at a nwnting Monday. 
A t:ontrovnrsy Pruplt~d this fall wtwn a policy was llll­al'LPd owr thl' sumrnnr which prohibitnd thl' posting of ad­vPrtisPnwnts for student band pNformancl's wlwn tlw t•wnt is to take plat'l' at an ..stablishnwnt serving alco­hol. 
l.ast. yPar ttw policy stated that hands l'ould adv111'tise on rarnpus providnd the fo­cus of th<• tlver was to advM­
tisP  tlw  h<~nd  and  not  thP  
tlstahlishmPnt.  
Tlw Campus  LifP Couneil  

n~solution #90'JI01 states that "playing in such nstab­lishnwnts is the most practi­cal arl'angem1mt f'or studont hands to perf'orrn .. and ad­vMtisPnwnt for tlwsn nvnnts is critical li1r their success." 
If tlw llwrs arn eonsistl'nt wil.h thtl 'university i\dver· tismnnnt Polky, Dul.a1: pagP 
52. in that thPv do not focus on akohol. ani:l tiH'Y do not advt~rtisP alwhol, only the 

have received most of the 
public's attention. with 
Democrats and Hepublicans 
vying to show the voters that 
the rich will pay their rair 
share. 
But it's not just tax increases that Uw average American would noticn should lawmakPrs and Prnsidnnt Bush finally rPach a dcrieit­rPdurtion agrnPmPnt. 
In fact, most of tlw savings in till' parkagPs Congrnss plans to vote on come from spPmling n•durtions. 
A rn o ng tlw programs hardPst hit would bn MPdit·ar'f', which lwlps 33 million PldPrly and handintppPd i\nwri!'ans pay tlwir medical bills. Increases in tho program. one of the fastnst. growing in tho gowrnnwnt, would bn lwld to $4:~ billion to $49 billion bPiow tlw amount 1wndod to knPp pacP with inllation over tlll' IH'Xt fiVI~ ypars. 
Although dPtails of the con­grnssional plans difrPr, it sePms cnrtain that the roimbursmnents doctors and hospitals rnceive for treating Mndicarn patinnts will be rnstrairwd. 
The S1~nato Finance Comrnitteo bill, ror example, would hold increases in payments to hospitals to 3.2 percent in 1991, 2 percent 
specific guidelines," said Student Body Pn~sident Rob Pasin. The spedfics of the policy will be determined by the Oftke of Student Activi· ties. he said. 
Next the CLC's resolution gons to Patrieia O'llara, vice president for student affairs. She must respond to the res· olution within seven days. said Pasin. 
"OtT-campus band perfor­mances are an integral part of soeial lifn at Notre Dame... l look forward to Prol'nssor O'Hara's re­sponsP," said Pasin. 
pPrl'ormance's location, they should be allownd, according to the resolution. 
"We deeided wn didn't want to come up with real 
O'Hara has the option to a1~ecpt or reject thn rnsolu­tion and must inelude rna~ sons for her decision, he said. Her dedsion is final and the CLC cannot override a wto. 

"The claril'ieation of tho hand advnrtising policy is a perfect nxamplfl of students and administrators coop· erating through regular usc of the Campus Lifn Council," Pasin said.. 

below the expected rate of 
inflation for hospital costs. 
Reimbursements to family 
doctors would increase by just 
2 pereent next year, while 
payments to specialists ­
such as surgeons -would be 
froznn at this year's lnvnls. 
With their fndnral rnim­
bu rs1~ments n~ducnd. doetors 
and hospitals could bn forced 
to pass their eosts onto pa­
tients -all patients. The gov­
nrnment limits thn ability of 
IH~alth-eare providnrs to boost 
costs for Mndkarn roeipinnts. 
Mediearo pationts thmnselvns are hning singled out by the budget writers. The $75 they must pay nach ynar in doetors' bills before the govt~rnmnnt begins picking up tlw tab would incrnasn to $150 next year under the Senate Finance bill, $100 under the House Democratic plan. 
Collngc students would also find tho Guarantned Student Loan program stinginr. under a measurn approved Monday by the !louse Education and Labor Committee. 
The loans -which go to 3 million students at colleges, graduate schools, and trade schools -would no longer be available at schools where more than 35 percent of stu­dents have defaulted. That is expected to end the program at about 1 ,000 schools. 
Security is big issue living off-campus 
By KATE MANUEL 
News Writer 
Once a student has made the 
move orr-campus, security be­
comes one of the most pressing 
concerns, but Notre Dame is 
not directly responsible ror the 
security of ort'-campus students, 
according to Phil Johnson, 
din~etor of Notre Dame 
Security. 
"Any student living off-cam­pus or becoming a victim of off­campus crime would come under the jurisdiction of the agency in the an~a in which thny live or the area in which the crime happened. The agPncy of Notre Danw security is responsible for on-campus amas, campus boundaries, and access roads; although the law enforecmcnt agencies in other arnas may call us in to assist in oth1~r respects," he said. 
Notre Damn Security does li­<lison work, connecting off­campus students with tlw law nnforecment agencies in their arnas, and provides crime pre­vention inrormation to them, aceording to Johnson. lie said, "There are broad possibilities for security's s1~rvices. In gen­nral, we shan~ information that can contribute to making life safer and serve as a liaison be­tween the community and the students." 
Currently, Notre Dame Secu­rity is working with the two ofT­campus student representa­tives, Mark Bettencourt and Stephen Leinnnwcber, and the local police agencies to put out 
Off -Campus Housing 
SECOND OF A THREE PART SERIES 

a series of mailings addressing 
security issues, according to 
Notre Dame security offic1~r Irv 
Sikorski. 
"We arc trying to provide some basic reminders and mako thmn aware of a couple of things that are available to them from the South Bend po­licn department and us," Siko­rski said. " We're trying to put togethm-a series trying to ad­dress thn problem of securing off-campus rnsidenees before students leave for midsnnwstnr break." 
Sikorski recommends that well in advance of rail brnak students should survey their residnncn and compare it to where they live with thnir par­ents. If locks arc missing or broken, or if there is an ab­sence of external lighting, stu­dents should contact their landlords about the problem. Students should also check for "hidden areas" where shrubs, trees, or fences would hide a potential burglar rrom someone passing by on the street. 
The local police department should be contacted a rcw days before thn student leaves, ac­cording to Sikorski. lie said, "They will offer a home-wateh to you it' you let them know a few days in advance, They will put your house on a list to be checked at least three times in 
a twenty-rour hour period: one 
time every eight hour shift at a 
minimum." 
Just prior to leaving ror 

break, according to Sikorski, 
students should make an cn'ort 
to ensure that tlwir residences 
will look "livnd-in" during the 
break. Timers and photocnlls 
can turn on lights and radios 
periodically. Newspaper and 
mail dnlivnry should also be 
halted for tlw duration or the 
break. 
Off-campus stud1~nt rnprcson­tativl~ Mark Bl'ttPncourt nrn­phasizns that thorP is only so much Llw oiT-rampus reprnsen­tativns ran do, and lw nlwour­ages off-campus students to make usn of tlw available rP­sources for knnping thnmsnlvns and tlwir rt~sidnnrns secure. 
"There is only so much we can do to stop crinw," said Bet­tencourt. "Tiwrn an~ a lot of rnsourePs out tlwrn, nspneially a courtesy home-watch pro­vided by all of the local police agencies. What we arn trying to do is make students morn aware of what's out thnrn. t·:i­ther call Notre Damn security or call a local security agency and arrange a security check of your home." 
Cecelia Burger, a senior who has livnd off-campus ror two years, has yet to expnriencn a security problem, but points to the importance of taking pre­cautions. 
"You have to think what tlw consnquences are wlwn you do 
see HOUSE I page 3 
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Brown's rule 
on parties is a 
liberal farce 
Brown University has done it again. In a "unanimous deci­sion," the Greek Council at Brown de­cided that fraternities at this oh-so-sensitive school can no longer host Third World Monica Yant theme parties. Assoc. News Editor 

What actually con­

stitutes a Third --------­World theme is still open to debate, accord­ing to the Brown Daily Herald, but "South of the Border" and "Reggae Night" were mentioned in the article. Of course, it doesn't really matter that the Greek Council can't decide what it is they're banning, because they're doing it in the spirit of breaking evil ethnic stereotypes, so it has to be right. Wrong. "We don't want to be construed as com­modifying ethnicity," boasted the public re­lations person for the Greek Council. (Note: the "person" in question is a female, but of course, at a school with as much sensitivity as Brown, the newspaper wouldn't DARE refer to her as a "spokesman" for fear of breaking the golden rules of gender inclu­sive language.) The "person" went on to say that banning theme parties which could be construed as derogatory will make "parties more acces· sible... so that all people from all different backgrounds will feel more comfortable." And, of course, the Greek Council has its collective humanitarian ego in mind. God forbid anyone think that the folks at Brown weren't out to save the world, or at least the world they think needs saving. Let's get serious Brown. How many times do they really think that Latin American students feel uncomfortable at a gathering because of a Latin American theme? It seems to me that if anything, the theme par­ties are celebrating the various cultures, not discriminating against them. The purpose of giving parties themes is, I 
believe, to add excitement and incentive for people to attend. Fraternities obviously want people to attend their parties, so what 
could possibly motivate them to plan an event around a negative theme? 
At Notre Dame, when University Food Services planned a "South of the Border" feast, I highly doubt they had malicious ethnic stereotypes in mind. In fact, I doubt they had anything in mind but good food and fun. 
Frankly, this thin-skinned attitude. of lib­erals at schools like Brown is getting a bit boring. What began as a genuine interest in erasing stereotypes has become an all-out attack on anything and everything that could be misconstrued by a bunch of people who aren't even the targets of the discrimi­nation they're condemning. 
When the Greek Council speaks of the "fine line" between what constitutes a Third World theme and what does not, perhaps they should think about the fine line that separates the real world and LaLa-Land. 
-~.,. -Obs.-. . e~~er-­
-=-.l-=1-tt:-.L-=Y~ 
PO. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 Sports
Today·a St1ff: 
Mike Kamradt 
News Scoreboard 
Joe Moody Rolando de Aguiar 

Kevaleen Ryan Production 
Accent 
Beth Peterson 
Paige Smoron Christine Anderson 
Ad Design Viewpoint
Amy Eckert Julie Shepherd Dannika Simpson Jay Colucci Joy Mueller 

Systems
Luke Lytell Gil Gomez 

Jennifer McCarter Bernard Brenninkmeyer 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, October 16, 1990
The Observer 
WEATHER 


©1990 Accu-Weather, lr 
~ m 0 h EZj 


RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Yesterday's high: 61 Yesterday's low: 40 Nation's high: 95 
(Lake Havasu City and Gila Band, Ariz.) Nation's low: 1 7 
(Plentywood, Mont.) 
Forecast: Partly sunny today with highs in the mid 60s. Lows tonight around 50. Tomorrow. partly sunny and warmer with highs in the low 70s with a 30 per cent chance of showers in the afternoon. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 

® (f) [ill 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

The Law School Caravan will be held today from 10:30 a.m. to 2:30p.m. at Stepan Center. Represen­tatives from over 100 law schools will be present. 
An international panel will focus on the topic, "After the Cold War: Voices for Global Demilitarization" today at the Center for Social Concerns. Lunch and dis­cussion will begin at 12 p.m. 
A panel discussion on how to g·et into a grad­uate school of international affairs will be held on today at 4 p.m. in Room 121, Law School. 
An informational meeting will be held 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns for all those interested in the CSC Mexican service project. If you are unable to come, call Kathy at 277-9406 or Lauren at 271-1380. 
Irish Outdoors will be having a meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Sorin Room. All those interested in going to the Smokey Mountains for break must attend. Bring check books. For additional information, call Paula Thompson at 237-0788. 
The pre-professional society will be having a meeting tonight at 8:30 p.m. in Room 123, Nieuwland Science Hall to discuss CPR classes and more. 
Auditions for Tom Stoppard's 
"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead" will be held Wednesday and Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Old Band Room in the basement of Washington Hall. Anyone unable to make these nights should contact Gerry Smith at 232­7269. 
London program applications are now ·available at the program office, Room 103, O'Shaughnessy Hall. Completed applications are due no later than October 31. 
NATIONAL 

Dougles Edwards. one of the pioneers of broadcast journalism and the nation's first network TV anchor­men, died Saturday in Sarasota, Fla. at the age of 73. Edwards, pictured here in 1982 at the age of 66, worked at CBS from 1942 until 1988, when he retired. Among the various prominent 

positions Edwards held during his lifetime, he was part of Edward Morrow's London staff during World War II and a Paris bureau chief. His work has been an inspiration to contemporary journalists 
across the globe. 
INDIANA Gov. Evan Bayh urged the General Assembly on Monday to allocate $60 million in lottery profits to local government's wastewater treatment projects. At a series of news confer­ences across the state, the Democratic governor endorsed a committee's recommendation to spend $40.3 million on the projects and said he personally favors adding another $20 million to that amount during the next two years. That money could attract $100 million in federal matching money for the projects, raising the two­year total to $160 million, he said. Bayh said the proposals. if enacted, would mark "an unprece­dented commitment of state resourc~:;s to Indiana cities and towns for wastewater treatment plant construction." 
A former radio pirate who has won a federal permit to broadcast in Lafayette is plan­ning an unusual music mix that combines Mozart, Glenn Miller, Merle Haggard and Mick Jagger. Station owner Bruce Quinn, 34, will boost the power at WBQR in Attica under the Federal Communication Commission permit and build a taller tower near Green Hill, 12 miles west of Lafayette. 
President Bush signed a bill Monday authorizing payments of up to $100,000 for people who may have de­veloped cancer from nuclear testing or uranium mining in Western states during the Cold War. "These payments fairly resolve the claims of persons present at the test site and of downwind residents, as well as claims of uranium miners," Bush said in a statement. He signed the measure during a campaign trip here. The United States conducted more than 200 atomic tests in the open air in both the South Pacific and in Nevada. "Atmospheric testing of atomic devices -important to national security during the darkest days of the Cold War -ended in 1963" when the United States signed and ratified the Limited Test Ban 
Treaty, Bush said. 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index 162.20  -o  2.77  
S&P Composite  
300..39  ..{}  4.93  

Dow Jones Industrials 2,365.10 {}42.82 
Precious Metals 
Gold 0 $1.40 to $389.70/oz. Silver{} 17.4¢ to $4.235/oz. 
ALMANAC 
On October16: 
eln 1793: Queen Marie Antoinette 
of France was beheaded. eln 1962: The Cuban missile crisis began as President Kennedy was informed by his aides that reconnais­sance photographs had revealed the presence of missile bases in Cuba. 
eln 1964: China became the world's fifth nuclear power as it deto­nated its first atomic bomb. 
eln 1970: Anwar Sadat was elected president of Egypt, succeeding the late Gamal Abdel Nasser. 
eln 1973: Henry Kissinger and Le Due Tho were named winners of the Nobel peace prize for negotiating the Vietnam cease-fire agreement. The Vietnamese official declined the award. 
eTen years ago: Republican presidential nominee Ronald Reagan picked up the endorsement of two prominent civil rights advocates, the Reverend Ralph Abernathy and Hosea Williams. 

Tuesday, October 16, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Group says 500 million children suffer hunger 
WASHINGTON (AI') -More than 40,000 children under the agn of fivn die every day from malnutrition and infnetion. despite increases in th11 worldwidn supply of food, a hunger rnlief group said Monday. 
Childrnn are among 500 mill ion pnople suffering from hunger. most of thnm living in poor, dnveloping nations in Asia. Africa and Latin Amnrica, according to tho rllport isstwd hy Br11ad for tho World. Tl11• group works to Pliminate hungPr. 
A major caus1• of hung11r is disruptions raused by wars and lighting in many nations: Afghanistan. Angola, Cambo­dia. l':thiopia. Sudan, Mozam­bique and Lilwria, to namn a fllW. 
Art Simon. th11 group's pnlsidllnt, said BrPad hopod to Pn1~ouragn rountrins to slow down military spending and diroct the money to feeding the hungry. 
"The billions we have spent to arm developing countries now haunts us, especially since that money could have been used to meet the world's nutritional needs," he said. 
Many doaths of children could be prevented if food and medical treatment were available, he said. 
Although tlw Third World has the greatest number of hungry people, developed nations likn the United States anl not immune from the probl11m, the fllport said. 
Despite its record agricul­tural productivity. as many as IS million Amnricans are without the proper nutrients that promote good health and growth. or thesn, some 8 mil­lion are children and 2 million are over the age of 65, the re­port said. 
Lecture talks of ideas for Christian revival 
By PETER AMEND society. Ameriea was founded News Writer by Christians and they passed the hope of a Christian Christianity no longer holds America to their children, tho strong cultural inlluenee according to Lobkowiez. "The 
JIDDAH, Saudi Arabia (AP) government-in-exile has been The kingdom increased itsit once enjoyed in the Western ideas of Christianity have World aceording to Dr. Ni­become institutions whieh 
-Hecent rises in oil prices established sinee Iraq invaded own output by about two mil­cholas l.obkowiez, president are rooted in society," he 
stem solely from fears of a Kuwait on Aug. 2. lion barrels per day to 7.5 mil­of the Catholie University of said. 
war, not a supply shortage, A U.S.-led multinational lion barrels, and convinced Eichstatt in Germany. Yet the methods the Church 
Kuwait's oil minister said force has been deployed to other members of the Organi­l.obkowiez, a former profes­employed to reaeh their 
Monday. Analysts said Saudi Saudi Arabia in response to zation of Petroleum Exporting sor in the Notre Dame prestigious position are no 
Arabia, whose reserves have the Iraqi aggression, and the Countries cartel to increase philosophy department, said longer effective in today's 
risen dramatically in the past stand-off is entering its 11th their output. Christianity provided the world according to 
year, will probably help week. In addition, Saudi oil foundation for Western Lobkowicz. The Church's 
prevent severe price shocks A trade embargo meant to officials refer to the four during a war. force Iraq out of Kuwait has strikes made between June
civilization. incessant drive to convert the "Christianity undeil'ied world, "caused its downfall," 
The oil minister for the cut off four million barrels per 1989 and April 1990 in a naturn so that we eould he said. "Christianity has 
exiled Kuwaiti government, day of oil exports from Iraq previously untapped central advanee in scienee and exeluded all of the other 
Hashid ai-Ameeri. said at a and oceupied Kuwait. region of the kingdom. During technology," he said. "It has religions of the world. It was 
news conference that oil Industry experts noted that period, official estimates prices would increase in the Saudi Arabia, which sits on a of the kingdom's proven
shaped the roles of nwn and not humble." women and our values. Only Lobkowicz said two main 
event of hostilities. But he said third of the world's proven oil reserves jumped by about 50 human naturn has shaped paths have been sought to re­
they would not skyroeket to reserves, would exert itself to pereent to 252 billion barrels. !'Uiturn in a more fun­gain the Christian movement. $100 a barrel, as predicted stabilize the market. The Light sweet crude was trad­danwntal way than Christian­Some say staying recently by a former Saudi oil Saudis already have been ing at $37.75 per barrel Mon­ity." conservative will bring on the minister, Ahmeed Zaki instrumental in offsetting the day on the New York Mercan­
Tlw leadership position of revival. while others claim Yam ani. shortfall in the oil market tile Exehange. Oil was selling Christianity had lasting that ehange is neeessary for Ameeri spoke in the Saudi resulting from the invasion of on international markets for ramifications on modern survival. capital. where his Kuwait. about $21 a barrel in July. 
House THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER 
continued from page 1 
something. I go to eampus

ON LAW & GOVERNMENT 
late at night and I always use Safewalk. You start aeting like your parents have said you
PRESENTS 
always should but you never thought you would. You begin keeping emergency numbers on 
the phone." 
Senior Dave Haymond has only experienced one security problem during his three years 
A Lecture 
BY 

off-campus; while he was living at Campus View during his sophomore year, some Michi­
WILLIAM J. BENNETT 
gan fans barged into his apartment over a football weekend and took some money. Now, he lives in lliekory Vil­
Director 
lage and says, "It's not univer­sity affiliated, but I feel it's pretty safe. I worry less about security here than at Campus
OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY 
View. It's less of a changing, party atmosphere." 
ON 

"Modernity and the Care of Our Children" 
Wednesday, October 17 7:30p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 



The Observer Tuesday, October 16, 1990
paqe 4 


Two pro-Kuwaiti demonstrators holding placard which shows Saddam Hussein as bloodthirsty Nazi dur. ing a noontime rally in Damascus Saturday. 
Man who staged dog­fight for TV is arrested 
J GOLDEN, Colo. (AP)-A man accused of staging a dogfight for a television news report that cost a star reporter her job was ordered arrested on Monday after he failed to appear in court. 
The other defendants, former KCNC-TV reporter Wendy Bergen and former station photographers Scott Wright and Jim Stair, were advised of their rights. 
The three, along with the missing man, Guy Walker, were indicted by the Jefferson County grand jury in September on 15 felony charges accusing them of staging pit-bull fights and lying to the grand jury. 
The fights allegedly were staged for Bergen's series "Blood Sport," an expose of underground dog fighting tele­cast during the May "sweeps" period when the race for rat­ings becomes particularly competitive. 
Jefferson County District Judge Gaspar Perricone issued an arrest warrant for Walker, who faces two counts of dog fighting. Walker's attorney, Antonio Lucero, said his client did not have transportation to Monday's hearing. 
Perricone scheduled a Dec. 14 motions hearing, and gave the Jefferson County district attorney's office another month after that date to respond. No trial date was set. 
The judge denied the defen­dants' request to bar television and newspaper cameras from the courtroom. 
Bergen, an award-winning investigative reporter, resigned shortly before a grand jury issued indictments. 

Campus Ministry and You 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

Last Thursday an open letter to the Notre Dame community -signed by many, not signed by more ­urged three things: 
-if you are gay or lesbian, "come out" to your friends. -whoever you are, resist all forms of discrimination toward those who are gay or lesbians. -embrace gay men and women as valuable persons in the Notre Dame community. 
The Director of Campus Ministry also wrote a letter that date, expressing some concerns about the open letter, while firmly stating the availability of the Campus Ministry staff to offer support to members of the·community who have questions and concerns about their own sexual orientation and identity. 
This column wishes to state very clearly that Campus Ministry has absolutely no hesitation in endorsing the second and third points above. We believe that all men and women of all backgrounds are essential to forming, challenging and reforming the University community and that persons never deserve to be harassed because of who they are, what they believe or what they do. This position is consistent with the relational ethic of Jesus, who derided only those who belittled or ridiculed others. Jesus never limited his own embrace only to those fully in accord with his own ethic. Jesus clearly modeled how to support persons without necessarily endorsing or declaiming anything. 
We are not sure, however, that it is appropriate for graduate students and faculty members who believe they are already established in their own sexual identities to counsel undergraduates to make any definitive statement about theirs'. Recommending premature disclosure is a serious ethical issue. Undergraduates are still ambiguous about matters sexual, and are entitled to be. Undergraduate years are more a time of questioning than answering, and anything that suggests that questioning end and definitive statements be made robs those years of their most precious components. 
So, to those of you struggling with the issue of sexual identity and orientation, we suggest an alternative to "coming out": mediate your process of exploring your sexual identity with someone you trust-someone who is safe. 
A safe person is one who clearly has no predetermined agenda for you, sits as a friend rather than judge, respects your struggles and does not rush to fix them. A safe person listens with respect and concern. Such a person might challenge us, but we never feel judged or dismissed. 
An unsafe person is one who appears to have some personally vested interest in how your life gets played out and is less than honest about that agenda while letting it get in the way of listening. An unsafe person doesn't really listen, but lectures or attempts to control the sharing. 
We strongly urge everyone on campus to find a safe person or persons with whom to explore all issues of growth, faith and development and to avoid unsafe persons, especially in exploring such crucial issues as sexual development and identity. Safely come out with your questions; give the answers time. 
Tuesday, October 16, 1990 The Observer 
page 5 

Gorbachev wins Nobel Prize 
OSI.O, Norway (i\P)-Sovil't 

l'rPsidPnt Mikliail (;orhadwv 
won I hi' I(j()() Nolwl l'nacl' 
l'riz«' on Monday for nasing 
ini.Prnalional !Pnsions. but 
clainwd it as an «'IHiorsl'uwnl 
of' wrPurhing rhangPs hn has 
mad«' at hom«'. 
Tlu• Nonwgian Nolwl Com­
mill«'«' said lh«' !i(J-ypar-old 
SoviPI. IPadt•r displaynd a 
"I"ad in g r o I P in I h«' JH' a c I' 
prorl'ss whirh today 
rhararll'rizl's i111 portant parts 
of' thP intPrnational 
('flllllllllllity." 
"Words fail onn at surh 1110­
lll«'llls. I am 111ovnd." 
(;orbarhl'v said in a tPinvision 
intt•rvi«'w. 
"I pPrrPiVP this action of tlw most authoritativn organiza­tion of tlw global community first of' all not in pPrsonal tPrms. hut as r«'rognition of I hP S i g n i f'i I' a IH' I' 0 f tlw illlmPIISI' ('(!liSP of' JWri'Stroika for th«' d!'stiny of thl' Pntirn world." 
<; o r ha r h «' v h as lw n n rritirizl'd at honw IH•rausn somP of his social and f'ronomir rl'forms. raliPd pPrPslroika. havP IPd to bloody f'lhnir rioting, food shortagPs, and dnmands by most SoviPt rPpuhlics for indn­pPrHIPIH'P. 
"WP know that thPrl' arn gn•at prohiPms (in tlw Sovint Union). hut that is not what lw got his priw for," said Gidskn i\ndPrson. IPadPr of tlw fivn­JH'rson Nolwl CommittnP. "Thn big thing t.hat is happnning in tlw world is tlw n•roru·iliation of I.IH' SUJWrpOWPI'S." 
"If you will rPad tiH• tPxt you 
will snn WP arn talking mainly 
about intnrnational policy," 
slw said. 
T lw co 111111 ittne 's citation 
said thn "grnatnr openness 
(Gorhaclwv) has brought 

about in Soviet socinty has ·also hnlpnd promote intnrnational trust." 
Thn committnn said (ior­
bachnv had rnadn many 

contributions to tho "dramatic 
changns" in Hast-Wnst rnla­
tionships sincn lw camn to 
pownr in I9H5: 
"Confrontation has bonn rn­

plarnd by nngotiations. Old 
Huropnan nation statns havn 
rngairwd frnndorn. Thn arms 
race is slowing down and wn 
snn a dnfinite and activo 
procnss in thn dirnction of 
arms control and 
disarmament." 
<iorbachev told a Norwegian TV intl~rviewer his reforms wnre popular outside thn Sovint Union bncause "the world was ripe for change. 
"It had grown tired of the Cold War. tlw arms race, the hardships resulting from an ovnrload of current problems faring the world community," he said. 
In thn past five ynars. tho Soviet Union has agreed to reduce nuelnar and conventional arnwd forces, lwlpnd st~ttle regional conflicts in i\frica. i\sia and Latin i\merica. and withdrawn its forces from Afghanistan. 
Many world leaders praised thn award. but several said tlwy hoped it would lead to even morn fnwdom in the Soviet Union. 
SECURITY BEAT 
WEDNESDAY OCT. 10 

3 p.m. A resident of Alumni Hall re­ported that he has been receiving ob· scene phone calls. 
THURSDAY, OCT. 11 
2:15p.m. A resident of Zahm Hall reported the theft of cash from his room. 
7:43 p.m. Two residents of Grace Hall reported the theft of their cla:;s nngs and watches from their room. 
8 p.m. A resident of Grace Hall re­ported the theft of his jacket from the Rockne Memorial gym. 
9:37 p.m. A resident of Grace Hall reported his book bag missing from the North Dining Hall. 
FRIDAY, OCT. 12 

12:30 p.m. A university employee reported the theft of her leather jacket from the JACC. 
SATURDAY, OCT. 13 
9:15 a.m. The Knight's of Colum­bus reported that one of their gas grills had been stolen from where it was sitting outside of their building. 
11:09 a,m. A resident of Breen Phillips Hall reported that her football tickets had been stolen from her dorm room. 
1:59 p.m. A Notre Dame alumnus reported thai his wallet had been pickpocketed somewhere in the vicin­ity of the JACC. 
SUNDAY, OCT. 14 
3:34 p.m. A resident of St. Edwards Hall reported that he had a book stolen from him while he took a break at the Hesburgh Library. 
4:24 p.m. A resident of Pasquerilla !:as! Hall reported that her bike had been stolen from the bike rack in lronl of her dorm. 

o/ICS 
--s~iiiiiii­
fr<.I.b. Db.uvtQ( 
z.7r-otf3 
113 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
2BUCK 
TUESDAY 
5 p.m. to 12:30 Any 7" Sandwich 
$2.00 
(2 or more for delivery) AL-SO FoF\ Deuvt:.RY CATHOUCS 
VS, 
CONVICTS 
III 
T·Shlrts and Neon Ha1B 
TAKE NO~-­
"If this prize contributes to 
the peaceful and quint transi­
tion of the Soviet Union to a 
society of equal nations and 
citizens, we welcome it 
warmly," said Vaclav llavnl, a 
former dissident who became 
Czechoslovakia's president 
al'ter the Sovint Union nased 
its grip on the East bloc. 
l."ormnr Pn~sident Hnagan 
said Gorbachev is "sincere in 
his eiTort to mako tlw world 
safor" and "is dedicated to do­
ing what must be done for tho 
good of his people." 
President Bush called Gor­
bachev "a couragoous force 
for poacnl'ul change in the 
world." 
British Prime Ministnr Mar­
g<tret Thatehnr called the 
ehoice "terrific." And Freneh 
Prnsident Francois Mittnrrand 
said Gorbachnv was "the doci­
sive factor in the nasing of 
tnnsions in the world." 
Some Soviet citizens were 
less enthusiastic about the 
honor for Gorbachnv. 
"I don't know much about politics, but what I sen in the stores, I hold the government responsible for." said Lyova Likacheva, a 35-year-old Moscow factory worker. "i\nd what I see in the stores is nothing-thcy'ro empty." 
Thn 71st Peace Prize was the first to a Soviet leader. 
U.S. presidents Theodore Hoosovclt and Woodrow Wilson won the award in 1906 and 1919 respectively. 
Gorbachcv is the second So­viet nobel peace laureate. Dis­sident i\ndrei Sakahorov won the 1975 prize. 

AP Photo

Now, watch 'em burn 
Kentucky Democratic gubernatorial candidate Gatewood Gal­braith (left) watches as country music star Wille Nelson pours a hemp oil (from the marijuana plant) into Galbraith's automobile during a campaign stop Sunday afternoon in Lexington, Ky. 
Tantalizing tabloid is 'under siege' 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The Readers can expect more National Enquirer has been juicy headlines on the order of tattling about celebrities for "Princess Di Pregnant, II ow decadns, enticing millions of She Used Food and Sex Tech­supermarket shoppers with niques To Make Suro It's !\ tantalizing headlines about Girl." lustful, jilted or diseased stars. "You won't sec any 
difference in the way we cover Now, inquiring minds arc stories," Calder said from his witnessing the tabloid under Lantana, Fla., office. "It sort of siege. goes with the territory. Every 
In recent weeks, CBS-TV's few years you suddenly get at­"60 Minutes" did an expose. tacked. Los i\ngeles magazine uncov­ered a sources scandal, and "i\fter all these storins are Elizabeth Taylor and run, within a few days, the Hoseanne Barr have filed dust will settle." lawsuits. The current wave of En­
But National Enquirer quirer-bashing started with Editor lain Calder said last the October issue of Los week the tabloid's millions of Angeles magazine, which said readers -"largest circulation tho tabloid paid sourcp,s for of any paper in America" -stories they had nothing to do needn't worry. with. 
MIAMI vs. NOTRE DAME SINGLE GAME ELIMINATION IN THE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP RACE  
WHAT WOULD ROCKNE DO?  
START MIAMI WEEK OFF BY SEEING KNUTE ROCKNE: ALL AMERICAN  
CINEMA AT THE SNITE TONIGHT 7:00 p.m.  

The National Enquirnr, with a circulation of 4.1 million. maintains it scrupulously investigates storins before publication. 
"Basically, what your lawyers 
tell you is. 'Do you believe it 
and have you cheeked it'!"' 
Calder said. 
Hod Lurie, who wrote the magazine article. said hn ob­tained a 10-page list of Hn­quirnr paymnnts and sourcns. Many of the sources insisted thny nevnr supplied the infor­mation they were credited with, according to Lurie. Calder said the document was stolen. 
"One by one by one by one, they all told me tlw sanw thing. They wen~ paid for stories they had nothing to do with, yet. they were 'sources,"' Lurin said. 
One of thosn sources was Stuart Goldman, a writer charged with unauthoriznd entry into a Fox Broadcasting Co. computer in an unrelated case. lin was id(~ntilied as an investigative reporter in a "60 Minutes" pieen on the Enquirer. 
"I received about 12 cheeks for stories I didn't work on," Goldman said. "When I ques­tioned it, they said, 'Don't worry about it. You were pro~a~.!Y shorted on othnr 
stones. 
The Enquirer maintains its accuracy has been unfairly questioned. 
WEAR IT WITH CLASS! 

r 
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, October 16, 1990 
Supreme Court upholds closing of adult stores 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Supreme Court turned aside free-speech arguments Monday and boosted the federal gov­ernment's crackdown on ob­scenity. 
The justices, over one dissent­ing vote, let stand the forced closing of three adult bookstores and nine video rental shops in Virginia under a federal anti­racketeering law. 
The businesses' owners, con­victed of racketeering and selling obscene materials, had argued that the subsequent seizures of their properties vio­lated their free-speech rights. 
I The seizures were carried out under provisions of the Racke­teer Influenced and Corrupt
r. 
Organizations Act (RICO). 
r 
Those convicted under that law 
I 
may be forced to forfeit all assets 
I 
and proceeds stemming from
' 
their illegal activity. 

Justice Byron White voted to hear the business owners' ap­peal, but four votes are needed to grant such review. · 
In other action Monday, the court: 
• 
Rejected the appeal of a former Air Force sergeant con­victed in Washington state of aggravated assault for engaging in homosexual conduct while knowingly infected with an AIDS-related virus. 

•Set 
aside a Minnesota man's federal conviction for burning an American flag during a 1988 demonstration in Minneapolis. The justices told a federal ap­peals court to reconsider the conviction in light of their deci­sion last June that flag burning is protected political speech. 

• 
Refused to let Texas, and by extension other states as well, ban deceptive advertising by airlines. The justices let stand an appeals court ruling that only the federal government may regulate airline ads. 

• 
Unanimously ruled in a Ge­orgia case that state officials need federal clearance, under the Voting Rights Act of 1965, before holding elections for state judgeships. 

• 
Refused to revive a copyright lawsuit against the publisher of an unauthorized biography of L. Ron Hubbard, founder of the Scientology religion. 

•Turned 
down the appeal of two Peotone, Ill., policemen who said they were disciplined unlawfully for wearing earrings 


while off duty. 

In the obscenity and racke­teering case, the Virginia book­store and video rental shop owners are the first ever prose­cuted on racketeering charges stemming entirely from obscen­ity crimes. 
Obscenity was added in 1984 to the long list of underlying crimes on which a RICO prose­cution could be based. 
"The court's determination of 
. the validity of post-judgment forfeiture in this case will have enormous impact upon the fu­ture of RICO obscenity prosecu­tions, both state and federal," lawyers for the convicted busi­ness owners said. Dennis and Barbara Pryba, owners of the corporations that operated the bookstores and video shops in northern Virginia, were convicted of selling and distributing obscene magazines and videotapes worth about $105. An employee, Jennifer Williams, also was convicted on obscenity charges. Dennis Pryba was sentenced to three years in prison and five years probation, and was fined $75,000. Barbara Pryba was given a suspended prison sen­tence and fined $200,000. Williams was given three years probation and fined $2,250. C'ne of the corporations the Prybas owned also was fined $200,000. After a separate jury trial, a federal judge ordered that all assets -including corporate stock, inventory, bank accounts, automobiles and even office furniture-be forfeited. The convictions and forfeiture order was upheld by the 4th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals last April. 
In their appeal, the Prybas and Williams said forfeiture of businesses engaged in constitu­tionally protected activities ­the distribution of materials not found to be obscene -amounts to an impermissible "prior restraint" of speech. 
The Bush administration urged the justices to reject the appeal. 
"If bookstores, newsstands, publishing houses and the like were immune from forfeiture, drug lords and other racketeers could invest in those businesses and thereby insulate their criminal proceeds from seizure," government lawyers argued. 
American Heart Association 


AP Photo

Peace march 
A group of American Christian pilgrims chant religious hymns and peace songs as they walk along a scenic path of Jerusalem. The group was praying for peace in the Middle East following last Monday's bloody Palestinian riots that left 19 people dead. 
Democratic tax plan to hit the r_ich 

7~~~ 
introduces 
**TACO TUESDAY** 
MUST BE 21 TO ENTER 2 Picture I.D.'s required 
Located in South Bend Marriott Hotel downtown South Bend 
***Free Parking*** 
for ND,MBA's,SMC,IUSB students 
Tu promote ,1 bl'lkr under­standm~ of the psycho-soCial, relig10us, cultural, philosophical, and hi~toricc1l aspects of homosexuality and lesbian and gay people. 
This Lecture Series i5 sponsored by the Departments of American Studies, Anthropology, Art, Art History, and Design, Communication and Theatre, English, Government, Historv, Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, Theology, 
and 
Center for Social Concerns, Student Government, Gender Studies, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. 
averaging $16,917, would pay $114more. 
•The 
middle group, averaging $25,896, would pay $183 more. 

•The 
second-richest 20 per­cent, averaging $36,481, would face a $280 tax increase. 

•The 
top 20 percent, whose incomes average $81,934, would pay $1,173 more. 


Those with incomes averaging over $428,000 -the richest 1 percent----:-would face a $13,951 tax increase. 
Congressional Budget Office conclusion that the richest 5 percent of Americans saw their after-tax income rise by 5.4 percent between 1980 and 1990 . 

WASHINGTON (AP) -A Democratic deficit-reduction plan under attack from the Bush administration would raise taxes on all but the poorest Americans, socking the richest 1 percent with increases averaging nearly $14,000 a year. 
The proposal would cut taxes slightly on those with incomes under $20,000 a year, according to an analysis Monday by the staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation. Those above the $200,000 income level would face a 7.4 percent tax increase. 
For people between those ex­tremes, the legislation would result in tax increases in the 1 percent range. That would re-suit from putting higher con­sumer taxes on alcohol and to­bacco; giving up next year's in­come tax adjustment to offset inflation, and raising the amount of wages subject to the Medicare tax. 
Economists for the House Ways and Means Committee, which wrote the proposal, es­timated its tax changes and cost increases for Medicare beneficiaries would cost the av­erage family $352 next year. 
Analysts said: 

•The poorest one-fifth of families, with after-tax income averaging $7,316, would get a $14 tax cut. 
•The second-poorest one-fifth, 


Viewpoint 
page 7 

The Obset:Ver 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ...••....... Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...•.... Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the tree expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 



Tuesday, October 16, 1990 
"'I
,

, 
~ 
, 
.,
,
~~~ 
""1
~1'1\11 

Unpredictable shuttle prevents peace of mind for riders ~, 
By Erin Ryan 

Till' Saint Mary's Shuttle serves many purposes for a wide variety of people. Whether a person is going to class, to mel'tings, to work or to sorialize. tlw shuttle bus is a nl'eessity. No orw n~ally nnjoys riding the shutth•. but thl' fact is that thl' studl'nts of Saint Mary's dl'pl'nd on it for transportation. 
Ocl'asionally, Saint Mary's studPnts rPI'I'iVI' mPmos in tlwir mailboxPs 1·onenrning cases wlwn• wonwn are attarked on "HapP Hoad." It is strongly l"l'I'IJJliii11'JHII'd not to walk honll' alone. It is becoming increasingly dangerous to evrm walk in small groups. Hecnntly, tlwre was nven an attack in the early afternoon. This leads morn and more to dependency on tlw shuttle. 
Tlw promptrwss of tlw shuttle is extrmm~ly important. Without being fortunatn enough to have acc1~ss to an alternative form of transportation, such as a ear, students at Saint Mary's are nasily isolated from activities that are very much a part of their daily lives. Personally, I have missnd meetings and been late numerous times because of the unprndietable shuttle. It is particularly important in the cold or nasty weather that the shuttle arrive at its scheduled stop on time. 
During orientation, I vividly remmnber Saint Mary's assuring both the freshmon and their parents of the students' safety. Every orientation menting stressed the promptnnss of the shuttle in order to assure parents that thnir daughters would not have to walk home. 
DOONESBURY 


The parents wern also informed that if ever one of us did not havn a quartN. it would not be a problem (It eosts a quarter to ridn the shuttle on WIH~kdays after six and at all times on weekends). WHONG! On a cold day in such a situation, my friend and I promised to pay the next time we rode (Wn did not have a quarter). We even offered to run up to our room and bring back a quarter after being dropped ofl'. The shuttle driver made us gnt off the bus. If all the freshmen parents only knew! I, further, do not believe that students should be expected to pay if the bus is not going to arrive as scheduled. 
Shuttle buses do not run until an hour after football games are over. Harely do Saint Mary's students go to the trouble of driving over to Notre Dame on a game day; it is the tradition to walk to and from games. After stopping off to visit some friends after the Michigan game, three of my roommates and I headed to the shuttle stop at the Grotto to catch the 1:38 
a.m. bus. It was cold and raining so hard I could barely see. There were several other students waiting for the shuttle. 
At about 1:45 a.m., one girl remarked that she had been waiting an hour. 
I delegated myself to save these cold and wet people from further agony and ran to the nearest phone to call Saint Mary's Security. I explained to the Seeurity official that the shuttle had not been seen in an hour and asked if could they s1md a ear to bogin to transport some people to campus (We were told, along with our parents, that Security would be available if we were ever in a bind). I was told that the shuttle had been seen twice that night by Security (I do not know how mueh time had elapsed since these alleged visions), so the bus was indeed running. The Security office had no explanation for where the shuttle was at the moment. He also would not come piek anyone up, since he knew the shuttle was running 
I told Security that I hoped that "Hape Hoad" would be safe that night, beeause there would be lots of people walking home. I headed back to the Grotto shuttle stop just in time to see the bus pull away. Yes, the shuttle was running, but on whose time? It was almost 20 minutes late, according to the schedule. 
My roommates had waited for me to come back, assuming that Security would be there any minute. That was nice of them, but they did not know just how nice they were planning to be until 40 minutes later when the next shuttle resurfaced. 
In that 40 minutes, I would estimate that more than 30 people walked back to Saint Mary's. These people did not wait together; they walked in small groups. As this practiee is becoming increasingly dangerous, I was not about to walk. 
Upon arriving at Saint Mary's, I sloshed over to the Security building mad, wet, cold, tired and hungry. I explained my complaints to the man in the building. The man nodded a lot but did not know really to whom I should go about my problem. 
I realize that it is not Socurity's job to s1w that the shuttle is on limo, but whose job is it'? Furthermore, why can't Security come to the aid of students in need? I'm tired of no one doing anything about the situation. 
I'm starting to think perhaps a lot of the things promised to our distant, unsuspecting parents on orientation weekend were just a load of blarney. Until Security seems a little 
more interested in the safety of  
Saint Mary's students. I doubt I  
will look at another one of those  
warning memos as morn than  
rnquirnd paperwork.  
If Sneurity cannot become  
more rnsponsible and willing to  
lwlp Saint Mary's students, I  
may as well transfer to  
Gainsville. Who knows'! Maybe  
I'll lw safer tlwre. Till' key  
phrase lwre is "who knows!"  
Who knows wlwn SIH~urity's  
negligence is going to lnad to a  
serious, unfortunatn situation'!  
You may bn thinking that the Michigan ganw was a long timl' ago, and this is old rwws. Tlw  ,,,  
reason I was unable to typn this  
up soorwr is that I've been in  1  
the infirmary with pneumonia. I  
can't imagine how I becam1~ so  ~  
sick. Perhaps it had sonwthing  
to do with that cold, wet night  ~  
when it took me so long to get  
home.  
Erin Ryan is a sophomore in  
the college ofbusiness.  

LETTERS 
Students are majority, deserve more parking 
Dear Editor: 
Parking stinks. 

On my path to the law sehool, I travel through an empty parking lot of one or two hundred spaces. This parking lot is reserved for guests who somehow have priority over students. Who are these guests? Do they pay $13,000 a year? lias anyone told them that they even have a parking lot, or are there only 15 of them? If there are so few, why do they need thirty spaces for each of their cars? 
I asked these same questions to an individual in charge of parking and was told that this guest lot was not "in front" of student parking, but "besidn" student parking. What?!! Not only is the guest lot obviously closer to the University eampus, but the space was originally for students. I should like to park in this individual's den and proclaim that I am mernly "beside" her home. 
But how can I complain ­students are allowed to park by the ACC. Unless, of course, there is a hot rod show. 
Edward 7: Yevoli NIJ Law School Oct. 9, 1990 



Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, October 16, 1990 
LETTERS 

Incidents indicate that Security is shortsighted of vision 
Dear Editor: likely setting for an attack." was accosted. Safe-Walk. I do not understand were not for the parking tickets 
Inadequate security is not a This point brought back bad I do not mean to dwell on why Security did not come up found on windshields around new problem here at the memories for myself, for it was something that happened over with an escort service before the campus and the guards at University of Notre Dame. I am a little over a year ago that I a year ago, but my point is that the students did. Is something the two entrances of the replying to Julie Scharfenberg's was sexually assaulted in front the safety problems on this like safety a problem that University, Security would letter, (The Observer, Oct. 8). I of the dome by two male South campus are nothing new. We should be solved by the almost be invisible. Security agree with her that something Bend residents. Who would have all heard of the blue jog­students themselves? Is getting needs to focus their efforts on needs to be done to improve se­have thought that so.mething ger, the BMX bike assailants, though college not enough to protecting the physical rights of curity. like that could happen at 8 p.m. the white station wagon flasher, keep a student occupied for the student body instead of 
The students here at NO pay on a Friday in one of the not to mention the numerous several years? being so overly concerned with enough tuition to attend this central parts of campus? students who have been One almost forgets that this fining students whose cars are fine institution. Is it so crazy to As soon as I got back to my mugged, beaten and even University does indeed have a parked in D-6 instead of D-2. expect to be protected too? One dorm that night, I called Secu­raped. I realize that it is impos­security system here to protect Laura Budnyk would think that with all of the rity and reported the incident. sible to keep outsiders off the the individuals attending and Badin Hall money this institution receives By 8:30 p.m., Security had a full campus, and I also realize that working at Notre Dame. If it Oct. 8. 1990 each year it should be no prob­report and descriptions of the crime all over the country has lem to beef up security. After two men. One would think that sky-rocketed. With this influx of all, should not the well-being of with this information, Security crime, does it not seem only those at the University come would immediately start pa­logical to improve security? first? Evidently not if there is trolling the campus and its sur­Although Security has had still such a high crime rate. roundings to look for the two several years to improve this 
Miss Scharfenberg's letter assailants. However, there was system, few changes have been addressed the problem that apparently a missing link in the apparent. How much more time Notre Dame "spends large sums security system, because a few must be wasted before positive of money to keep our beautiful hours later that night, the same actions are taken? golden dome will-lit at night, two men-or at least two men Last year the students real­yet right beneath it, the dark who fit my ized that our security institution 
,­
grounds surrounding the description-grabbed another here at Notre Dame was simply administration building are a girl not too far from where I not enough, so they organized 

Dear Editor: Sister Coli cites, as one rea­doctrine given by a mother to teristics and abilities. The fact that the Church should conform 
I am a woman and a recent son some women are leaving her child in the home -each is remains that men and women to the feminists. Rather, the convert to Catholicism. While the Church, her concern that a worthy contribution to the are different. Church should help the femi­Sister Regina Coli may know of the Church "disregards" female Church. There is no need for a Sister Coli is also critical that nists to leave behind their theo­women leaving the Church ( cc,ntributions to the Church. woman to receive public praise women are rarely involved in ries of oppression and revolu­The Observer, Oct. 8), I know of This would seem to imply that for her aid to the less fortunate, decisions affecting them. Yet, tion, and instead follow Christ. many coming in. women should seek public nor must she pray or teach her Moses did not take a public 
praise for their service to the child openly on the street opinion survey before present­The role of the Church is to 
Sister Coli asserts that the Church. corner so that others will ing the Ten Commandments. teach truth and save souls, not Church does not sufficiently recognize her actions. God Christ did not take a poll of to conform to this world. recognize the contributions of Yet, human recognition of knows what she does. women around Him before He Sister Coli says that she stays women, and that it "victimizes" women's contributions to the The draft of the proposed appointed men as leaders in the in the Church because she feels them. Yet, these other women Church will pass away as hu­bishops' letter on women dis­Church. she can "move the Church best converts and I did not come ex­mans pass away. By contrast, turbed Sister Coli because it by staying with it." pecting to receive praise of God's knowledge of individuals' maintained that ·different roles Truth is not determined by a The role of the faithful. how­ourselves as women, nor do we contributions to the Church are more appropriate to the democratic vote, nor is the ever, is not to rally the Church feel "victimized" by the Church. lasts eternally. different sexes. If God had de­Church a democratic institu­to conform to us, but rather to 
For public recognition of sired to create an androgynous tion. allow the Church, by the grace women, we would have joined A gift from an anonymous being capable of self-reproduc­If women choose to follow the of God, to conform us to Christ. the National Organization of woman to an orphanage, just tion He could have, but He did feminist movement rather than Women; for our search for truth one prayer offered by a woman not. Instead, He created man Christ and leave the Church, it Jennifer Bryson and our faith in Christ, we have for the Church alone in privacy, and woman with distinctive is indeed most unfortunate. Off-Campus joined the Catholic Church. or the instruction in Church physical and personal charac-This does not mean, however, Oct. 8, 1990 
Reactionary remarks by speaker were offensive 
By Sean Scanlon the French Revolution and assuming the Marxist role of and Lesbian Coming Out Day) is these issues than I ever will. 
George Parkin Grant) that lib­Proletariat) only at the a "celebration of perversion." And if this is what he has been 
On Monday, Oct. 8, I attended eralism can grow unfocused insistence of the New Left. This -Hart said for people who teaching, I can begin to see why a lecture by Professor Jeffrey and out of control; however, I assumes that there is no share his mind set not to allow our generation is supposedly so Hart, visiting from the English was in over my head here. inherent value in affirming themselves to act like an apathetic and messed up. Department of Dartmouth That notion was only the topic feminine equality in the face of attacked, defensive minority. But why did people in the University. Hart is also a senior and title, not the issue. our patriarchal society or racial Yet in his conclusion, he twice room (including the Dialogue editor of the National Review. The issue was this: Professor equality in the face of our urged his colleagues and editor) sit and applaud and Since the title of Hart's lecture Hart is afraid. And this is how bigoted society. These are just listeners not to doubt for a laugh when Hart dismissed the was "Revolution on Campus," he proved it to me that day. New Left intellectual ideas moment that "we shall problems that our generation and I am researching campus festering over the past twenty­overcome." This was either an will spend our entire lives unrest in the 60's, I decided to -He wouldn't look me in the five years by those power allusion that he is a minority trying to correct or even just attend. eye and define his term "fag­hungry professors, who, and seeking "prole status", or a survive? Heality needs to be 
What I heard was a heavy olotry" when I asked. "jealous of the highly successful joke in very poor taste. So, dealt with, not countered with enough dose of implicit racism, -He began his lecture by bourgeoisie west" (implying after "the lecture, I asked him reactionary conservative chauvinism and gay bashing to slipping in off-handed himselO. have been mobilizing and, to be consistent, he lectures. The speech Professor make David Duke proud. I was comments about his disgust blacks and women to embody assured me it was a joke. llart gave was an insult to 
with people who don't approve their ideas (David Duke recently -And, although I forget the intelligence and an insult to
nauseated. Professor Hart, however, was among friends, of Columbus Day. According to tried a similar, equally context, Professor Hart had the caring people with enough 
Hart, Columbus began the desperate tactic trying to win guts to mention that he is a sense to look past his position,
and he freely expressed these notions in off-color jokes and "significant history" of the black votes in Louisiana Christian. tenure, and influence to see 1he North American Continent. through saying Liberals are He believes that the New Left bigotry within. It cannot be
allusions to such things. The goal of his speech was to Indians, we are to believe, are only condescending to blacks has been failing since the 60's, accepted anymore. decry the Committees' on insignificant. through welfare and affirmative and I agree with him. He Although Hart called New Standing (tenure committees) in -He ridiculed a candidate for action). believes there are certain ways Leftists "Utopians," he tenure who wrote a treatise on -It seems that slavery wasn't of this world which cannot be embodies the concept much
universities across the country 
which, he believes, are Shakespeare's Tempest as a so bad, if you consider the op­changed by the "Utopian" more concretely. By urging entrenched with the residue of reflection of imperialism (I tions. After all, Hart reminded thinkers, and I agree with him. standpattism and disgust with the New Leftist ideology of the don't claim any expertise on us, the historical facts reveal The reason he believes people needed social change, Hart 60's. Professor Hart began by Shakespeare or historical that the slaves sold to the Dutch are looking towards these must be implying that the comparing these committees to periods, but I should mention traders were captives of tribal issues is a "profound society we are in is the best Robespierre's Committee of his assertion). He laughed and wars and had they not been ingratitude for what we have possible world. I do not agree. Public Safety during the pointed out that it was obvious sold into slavery, they would been given." We should feel We ache. Jacobin phase of the French that imperialism didn't begin have been killed in a gruesome graced by what Hart's The decade of the nineteen­Revolution. In other words, he until at least 1620, the date of manner. Therefore, the generation has given us? nineties will be pivotal for believes that these committees the Pilgrims' arrival in negroes were better off on What we have been given is American society and the are guillotining all traditional Massachusetts. This either South Carolina plantations. a society of conflict on almost American Catholic Church. and conservative professors assumes Cortez, Drake, and However, some options Hart did every religious, political, social hope Professor Jeffery Hart's who dare oppose the liberal Raleigh are insignificant, or he not consider were Dutch and economic issue. I didn't ideas do no~ lead us through flow of the university since the does not believe that Spanish economic greed or black self­create this society; I was born this decade, if they continues on free speech movement and the and English genocide of Native determination. into it. Professor Hart, these paths. Port Huron Statement. I have a Americans was imperialism. Hart said that the however, was teaching people long-held a notion (mainly -Blacks, women and students recognition of G.L.A.D. week in the 60's, 70's and 80's and Sean Scanlon is a senior stemming from my studies of in general are "proles" (that is, (and, implicitly, October 11, Gay has had a lot more influence on majoring in history. 


Accent 

Tuesday, October 16, 1990 page 9 
Parents Weekend. Midterms. CLIP AND SAVE 
Psyrhing up for the Miami 

game. I'm a busy guy. "So'?" asked an editor in the Sports departnwnt. 
UNIVERSAL LETTER HOME (ULH) FORM 
So what do I write about in my eolumn'? I'VI\ got a 3:00 
Dear (receipient's name here), _The dating scene.
deadline. "I dunno man. You're hum­
October break is: 

min'." Some heads nodded in 
tlw room. It was unanimous. I'm sorry I haven't written you (check one): _Coming soon and I hope to see you. C'mon. Any ideas'? 
_Lately. _Undeniable proof of the existence of God. 
"WI!Il, the Year of Women is sponsoring a leetum ealled _This week. _Just long enough to recover from the post-game 
Ever. Miami parties. 
Chuck Young I bit into an apple at the dining hall and was worried Last weekend, 1: Fresh Perspective 
because (check one): _Studied. 
I found a worm. _Can't remember.
Basie Car Care II in the maintenance building," I didn't find a worm. Parents' Weekend was memorable because: ­someone said. 
I study: I ate out for the first time in 2 months. 
llikn it. "IIow about 'the wave that 
Some. _My room was clean. 
wouldn't die' during the Air Foree game? You could write _A lot. I'm really bummed because: about the undnrtow in the stu­
_All the time. _My name covers my nose on I.D.
dent sertion," suggested Cullen Ilngarty, a man who always Even on weekends. _New Kids on the Block are coming. eomplains that I don't quote 
_I'm an engineer. _They give grades here. 
him enough. As you ean see, this week was I don't know enough: 
Please send (check three): 
a struggle. But, rwver fear, I've 
_Chemistry.

serapnd up something the _Money. reading publie should find. if 
_Physics. Food.
not entertaining, extremely useful. _Cheerleaders. _Money. It's a tool for those of you who 
My clothes are: 

never have time to write home. 
I>on'l. feel guilty anymore! Quit _Wrinkled. (I'm at the height of fashion.) putting ofT those letters! Simply 
fill out the accompanying _The main source of funding for the bookstore's Go Irish! BEAT HURRICANES! Univl!rsal Letter llome (ULII) 
new expansion. Sincerely yours, _Friend
form and mail or fax it to family and friends. _Mostly out on loan. _Son 
I worry about: _Daughter
Chuck promises to start future rolumns at least the day _The dating scene. 
_Scholarship

before his deadline if you'[[ 
_The leak in LaFortune's roof.
send him mail. Just write to: recipient Churk. Care of the Observer. .'lrd Floor ofl.aFortune. 
CLIP AND SAVE 
NO alumni clubs show the spirit of service 
By KELLEY TUTHILL sehool. l;inally, the dub tries to University of California at Los Iowa University was discussed News Editor meet the needs of the school Angeles, Duke University, at the conference. through donated equipment Indiana University, Yale The Adult Literary in Iowa
At Notre Dame,
From tutoring to and supplies. University, Iowa University, Volunteer Effort (ALIVE) rPbuilding local homes, Programs such as the one in alumni have been Princeton University and Notre program is statn-wide in Iowa, alumni from collnges Detroit do "not eost a ton of Dame conducted sessions about however, the Univnrsity hopes
involved in organized
and univnrsitins ae.ross money... the club uses its alumni service opportunities. to expand ALIVE to include tlw rountry are utilizing tlwir n!sources and connections to service programs .John Kobara, executive Iowa alumni across thn eountry, nxpnrinnc11 and resources to effectively serve the needs of director of the UCLA Alumni said Diane Baker-Gruwell, snrw their eommunities. the community," said Pranica. since the early 1980s. Association, spoke to the group assistant director of alumni 
At a eonfnrnnce hnld at the about UCLA's unique adult continuing enrichment and PJHI of September, In San Diego, Notre Dame illiteracy program. UCLA was community serviee. reprnsrmtatives from 30 alumnus Dr. Dennis Nigro '69, the first alumni After hearing the success of 
tuition scholarships for their
collngns and univnrsities mnt at provides plastic and association/university in the Notre Dame's programs, Iowa 
work.
Notrn Dame to discuss just that: reconstructive surgery free of country to start a national adult also hopes to start an adopt-a­
The local alumni clubs
options for r~ommunity serviee eost to those cannot afford the illiteracy program. school program and organize a 
provide funding for the
through alumni rwtworks. procedure. I lis work is part of a "It's a new way of bridging Christmas in April projnct in the 

seholarships and support for
program called Project Fresh and connecting alumni back to future. 
tim students who rome to their
At NotrP Damn, alumni have Start, which is promotnd by thn the institution," said Kobara. At Yale University, alumni 
cities.
hn1nl involved in organized loecd alumni dub. UCLA's alumni association has participate in Summer Service 
In the future, the alumni
sn rv ie11 pro grams sin en the The Notre Dame Club of distributed handbooks about Projects similar to the program
ofl1ce at the University hopes to
narly I CJHOs, said P1~tnr Praniea, Washington, D.C., joins with the program to 250 universities at Notre Dame. Last summer 
beeome a clearing house for
assistant director of Alumni other sehools' alumni groups to across the country. ~ormcr Los was the first yrHtr of the 
different types of service
Clubs. assist tlw Sursum Corda Angeles Lakers' basketball program and the response was 
options for alumni elubs.
According to a vidPo housing project. Alumni provide player Kareem Abdul-.Jabbar incredible, said Nina Gliekson,
Hopefully the alumni office will
produend hy Notre Damp's physkal maintenance as well as serves as the program's associate director for 
develop a register of
Alumni Assodation, the goal of legal and financial assistance national representative and programming at the Association 
information so alumni clubs
sueh programs is to reeognizn which will allow the residents First Lady Barbara Bush has for Yale Alumni: 
will be able to access
t.hn eonsidPrabln talnnts of to become owners of the prop­recognized the efforts of the Alumni dub members pieked
information easily, Pranica said.
Notre Dame alumni and to erty. program. The program is out the project sites and 
The .James ~. Andrews
effert positive solutions in the underwritten by General provided support for the loeal eommunity. Other programs that Notre Conference provided an Telephone Corporation. students during the summer,
opportunity for representatives
Members of the Notre Dame Dame sponsors include The first phase of the she said. For the first year, Yale 
from alumni assodations across
Club of Detroit have adopted Christmas in April, a one-day program is making UCLA's alumni dubs paid for one-half 
the country to exchange ideas
the St. Martin de Porres high intensive program in which quarter of a million alumni of the scholarship money. 
and information.
school in inner-city Detroit. skilled and unskilled volunteers aware of the issue of illiteracy, Conference sponsors hope the 
The conference was named in
Alumni dub members targeted refurbish homes in a target said Kobara. The other phase meeting will become an annual 
honor of a 1961 Notre Dame
thrne areas of emphasis within neighborhood, Pranica said. includes the recruitment of event as the concept of alumni 
graduate and co-founder of the 
the sehool: students, faculty and Over 3,000 alumni, students tutors. So far over 700 service networks continues to 
Universal Press Syndicate.
development. and faculty participate in this volunteers in the Western part spread to universities and 
Since 1981, a fund established
A tutoring program matches yearly project. of the U.S. have been recruited. colleges across the country. 
in Andrews' memory at Notre
alumni with students to help In addition, alumni Starting a program such as Alumni service programs arc 
Dame by his wife and friends on they
continue the school's tradition participate in the Summer UCLA's illiteracy project is very catching beeause 
has made possible
of sending 90 percent of its Service Project program. Notre easy because the alumni capitalize on "untapped
undergraduate student on
graduating class to college. In Dame students travel across the association is relying resources," Kobara said. "With 
participation in Summer
addition, the club members country to work in service existing networks, Mr. Kobara 50 million highly educated 
Service Projects. 
provide free legal and finandal agendes such as soup kitchens said. people in the United Statcs... we 
Representatives from the
advice to the faculty of the and homeless shelters and earn A new illiteracy program at have to utilize that resource." 
Tuesday, October 16, 1990
page 10 The Observer 
... The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, summer, J-term,  College Students: Earn up to $500/week between or after classes, stuffing envelopes. Don't Delay. For info: Send SASE to DAWalker P.O. Box 14245, Washington D.C., 20044-4245  Need: TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES! CALL JOE X1688 Monday-Thursday 3:30-6:30  NEED MIAMI GA'S. BIG $$$. CALL 233-4693. I NEED 12 MIAMI TIX GA'S OR STUD., NEGOTIABLE FROM $1200 PETER (312) 935-9675  NEED MIAMI GA'S!!!!!!!!!!! JUST WON THE LOITERY-­I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS I !I PLEASE CALL-I'M DESPERATE  It Really Hurts To Do This but when it comes right down to it, we need the money to go home more than we need our two miami student tickets. If interested, we'll be taking the best offer by 1 0/17  
Graduate and Internship programs. All run under $6000. Curtin University. 1-800-878-3696.  Make Money Watching"T.V.I EXCITING new method. Amazing 24 hour recorded message reveals details. Call512-585-4808  ND Alum needs 3 GA tix for Penn St. Call Jeff Walsh collect (602) 257-5971, II am-Bpm, M-F.  HELP!!! I NEED PENN ST. GA'S AND STUDS. PLEASE CALL JOHN X2352 X2384  CALL CATHY AT 273-9624 Wealthy Alumni Desparately Need Miami Tix  Jeanne "3619 NEED 2 GA TIX FOR MIAMI CHRIS x1067  
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406  Ext. 101. HELP! I need ride to PIIT after  TOP $ for Your Ga tix to all home games call277-9357  Need 1 Miami GA or Married Mark 232-4589  Call Tim x2015 $$$$$$$$$$$$  Need a Miami stud. tik soon? Let's talk. X1899 Mike  
Miami $ JoAnne 1275  Patty  !!!! HAVE 2 MIAMI STUD TIX !!!!  NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S  I NEED 4 MIAMI GAs  
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 237-1949  FOR RENT  HELP! NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S AND 1 OR 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR  --BEST OFFER--­ CALL X3797  Call Matt #2052  
- JUST SAY NO! Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of NO ave. & Howard. 233-2342 Professional Word Processing  an attractive studio in lovlliY old mansion near NO ,255 plus deposit ;please call 2888595 d STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK AVAILABLE NOW  POOR RELATIVES! CALL KEVIN X1589 NO GRAD and wife from Calif. NEED 2 Tickets to N.D. Miami Game. Call Collect (818) 591­2625.  "Brian 3810" FOR SALE: 4 MIAMI GA'S. CALL MARK 273-0449. LV. MESSAGE. FOR SALE 1 MIAMI STUD TIK  NEED PIITSBURGH GA's CALL MAIT #1159 Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at 283-1818 and leave a message.  NEED MIAMI GAs JOE X1761 for sale MIAMI stud tix call andrew 1307 Will trade Penn St GA's for Tenn. GA's Tim X3515  
Services. When SPEED, FORMAT, STYLE, and ACCURACY are vital ... let THE HOME OFFICE help. Call 234­3891, ask for KristL Gay, lesbian, and bisexual  271-1833 AFTER BPM TIRED OF O'HARA-GRACE? MOVE INTO MY APT'S 2ND BEDROOM AT TURTLE CREEK CALL JANE 271-1920 NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable  MIAMI TIX FOR SALE DAVE X3024 FOR SALE: Tickets for all remaining home games.  CALL-JIM 288-2743 MIAMI STU. TIX 4 SALE KATHY X2567 NEED MIAMI GA'S AND STUD. PLEA$E CALL MIKE 273-9338  I NeEd MiAmi StUd Call ToBy 4010 2 miami stud tix for sale call kim at 277-7489 I NEED MIAMI AND PIIT TIX CALL PAT 234-8608  6 Miami GS's Best offer by 10/18 call273-1364 FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI Stud Ticket Best Offer by 10/1 B Tim x3015 7:30-? PM  
discussion group for faculty, staff,  and secure apts:  
and grad students. Wednesday, 17 October, 7 p.m. Call Dennis, 234-4708 for more information. I NEED A RIDE TO D.C. AREA FOR FALL BREAK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES, ETC. CALL INGO AT 289-4860 \ LOST/FOUND  1 bdrm-$275 3 bdrm-$380 I,~.. "~~·;.:'E"" MAC 512K with BOOk drive $400, IBM PC, 512K, 2 Drives, Amdek monitor $425. Call after 4:30 277­1761. O'HARE to NWRK  Call Joe X1688 Mon.-Thurs. 3:30-6:30 PM NEED AIR FORCE, MIAMI, PENN STATE TICKETS CALL 234-7644 We have tickets to all HOME games ! ! call Estevan or Ritchie  I have 1 MIAMI stud. ticket to sell­call Chrissy x3958 -leave a message and phone # 1 Miami student tik. for sale call me at 3213, we'll make a deal. 3213 4 sale 1 Sr. Miami stud ticket 3375 Jim  WANTED: 2 G.A TICKETS FOR TENN. GAME. (404) 923-4707. MAKE A DREAM COME TRUE! Divorced Alum Dad in Houston has plane, car, and hotel. Need Miami Tix for GAME on son's 12th Birthday; PLEASE HELP; Only need 2; Call Collect (713) 524­7604 after 7.  A CORPORATE PROBLEM. NEED 9 GA'S FOR MIAMI. WILL PAY$$$. 1-262-4990. I CAN'T PAY HIGH SCUMMY SCALPER PRICES, BUT CAN AFFORD A FAIR $40 PER TICKET FOR G.A'S FROM A DESCENT PERSON. CALL 272 9602 AFTER 7:00-JEFF MIAMI STUD. TICKET BEST  
RED"..RED"""RED"""RED...  Sun 10/21 7pm  $100  @2275  Selling 1 Miami Stud. 40 Yd Ln  FOR SALE: 2 Miami marr1ed  OFFER CALL 287-8793  
jacket lost at stanford barn dance ... also RED ground grafic piece from RED car in D-2 lot...PREITY PLEASE WITH SUGAR ON TOP,  Dave #1100 2 Miami stud tix, reasonable x5689 (D) or 272-3550 (N)  THIS IS A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY­HELP THE NEEDY ­NEED 2 miami GAs & 1 stud  Call me: 234-7168. Lv mess. Before 10PM I'M leaving South Bend Fri. AM  stud. tix #489-9660 NEED 2 MIAMI GA #2790  4 SALE 2 MIAMI STUD BEST OFFER #4635  
RETURN THEM !!! X-4096 ask for PAULA. LOST: Black Vuarnet sunglasses in North Dining Hall Fri. 6:30p.m. If found. please call Rene 277­9468. Reward offered. LOST: A GOLD AND SILVER SEIKO WATCH between Niewland and Hesburgh Lib. 10/8/90 from 2:00-3:00 p.m. REWARD, please call "2969 I LOST MY HP28C CALCULATOR ON FRIDAY THE 28TH OR SO. HELP! I'M AN ENGINEER AND I'M FLUNKING WITHOUT MY CALCULATOR. MY NAME "STAGER" IS ON IT. REWARD $$. CALL DON 283-2173.I WANTED OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr., round, All Countries, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading Books at home. Call 1-615-473-7440 ext. B 340. EASY WORK! EXCELLENT PAY! ASSEMBLE PRODUCTS AT HOME. CALL FOR INFORMATION 504-641-8003 EXT. 6840. NEED RIDE TO NEW JERSEY 4 BREAK-EILEEN 284-4253  FOR SALE 1 SENIOR MIAMI TICK. BIG VARIETY 0' ID'S CALL DAN @1772 FOR SALE: THREE MIAMI SENIOR STUDENT TIXs--40 YD LINE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! WILL ACCEPT BEST OFFER BY THURS(1 0/1 B). CALL DAVE OR MARK X1219 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR SALE X277B FOR SALE One way plane ticket to NYC Thursday 10/25 $60­return ride to NO available Sunday 10/28. Call Kevin 273-1956 I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­1364 FOR SALE 1 Miami Stud Tix call X 1346 FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs Sam X1726 FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs Sam X1726 FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs Sam X1726 FOR SALE: Stu. Tix for MIAMI call DIEGO #4075 For Sale: One Miami stud. ticket call Mark-1305 For Sale, Cheap Plane Ticket to FLORIDA, for Fall Break, Call Vince  HAVE MERCY!!! MIKI 284-4386 I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's! PLEASE! 277-4838 Selling!!! 2 50yd. Air Force GA's, 5 Air Force STUD, & 3 Miami STUD EJ x1053 I NEED MIAMI TIX CALL JOHN 258-0809 I need GA's for Miami, Penn ST and Navy. WILL PAY WELL. I also will buy GA's for any other game too. Call Jason atx3413 or x3419 Uncle Morris from Iowa is coming for the Miami game and ..surprise he has no ticket. Call Kara if you have a Miami GA for Uncle Morris at x2761. SELLING 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET --<:all LuAnn X4766 I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI ROSIE 4025 Two(2) MIAMI GA's for SALE call277-5745-between 9:00 am -5:00 pm. Leave best offer on machine. NEED 2GA'S FOR PENN ST. KELLY X5076 ALUMNUS NEEDS 5 MIAMI GA'S FOR FAMILY. Call collect at night 601-362-2339 or X3140 for questions.  For Sale! 2 Miami GAs or 1 student Call Andy @ 1563 need 4 Penn. St. GAs BIG MONEY. Rob 259-3268 NEED TICKETS FORND-PIIT x3684 I NEED MIAMI STUD TIX! Call Mo x4805 2GA'S FOR SALE FOR MIAMI. BEST OFFER BY 10/19. CALL #2745 LEAVE OFFER. MIAMI and Penn State tickets (student) For Sale 287-5003 Call by thursday HAVE: MIAMI STUD NEED: 2 PENN ST. GA's Call MARK@ 4125 Need 4 std. GA's for Miami. Should be in groups of 2 or 4. Ph. 233-2651. MIAMI STUDENT TIX FOR SALE CALL X2911 OR X2915 W/OFFER HAVE 1 MIAMI STUDENT TIC CHRIS X3482 4 SALE: MIAMI GA'S MIAMI STUDENTS X1167 MIAMI STUD FOR SALE! CALL DAN X3328  I NEED PENN STATE TIX $$$ 4-STUD & 2-GA 273-9077 4 SALE: 3 MIAMI STUD TIX BEST OFFER-273-9088 Need Miami student tix. badly ! Call Paul at x1755 Sale 4 Miami Stud x1290 I need 2 or 3 MIAMI GA's!! call Kathleen@ 4081 1 pair Miami married stud. tix lor sale. GOOD AS GA'S. 273-9349 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE CALL MARY X1727 FOR SALE: One MIAMI Student ticket. Call Clem or John (x 1177) with best offer. For Sale: 1 Miami stud. Bo x1726 I need 2 Miami GA's !!!!!!!!!!and 1 Miami student ticket, call Allison, 2732 NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S $$$$ X-2601 $$$$ For sale: Miami-Notre Dame TICKETS. Please call after 7 p.m. 232-3330. SELLING 1 MIAMI STUD TIX  ..MIAMI STUD 4 SALE!"" CALL X2186 I need Miami tix! Tim 271-8795 Have Penn St GA's? Call Tom x1581 . Will beat any offer. I need Miami Student tix.l!!! Call Lloyd 287-221 B Need Miami Stud & GAs. Call Matt @ 273-1849 One Miami GA Available -Will Trade for Two Penn State GAs. Call David at 616-695-9826. TRADE; have 1 Miami tix; need 4 Penn state students; Jeff x3374 Hey YOU!!! Need a MIAMI ticket? 1 stud. tix 4 sale. Call Joe at X4062 4 SALE: 2 MIAMI STUD TIX, BEST OFFER . 234-2728 2 NAVY TICKETS TO SELL. CALL JOHN 703-528-8288. $$$FOR ANY TXS TO MIAMI GAME GAISTUDENT H-203-953­8571, W-203-677-8556. $$$ NEEDED $$$ 2 PENN ST. GA's for ND alum. He's got a lot of reason why you should sell to him!! Call Steve@ x1463  
NEEDED: Ride to/from Dallas for break. Will help pay for gas. Diane x5468  1396 Round-trip ticket to San Jose  2 MIAMI STUD TIX FOR SALE CALL JACKIE OR PAULA AT 277-9406  I NEED MIAMI & PENN ST GA'S BRIAN 2049 NEED MIAMI TIX  -CALL JOHN X 1736 AAAAAAAHHHHH!!!!!!!!!! I NEED 2 MIAMI TICKETS  Need Miami ST Tickets? Call 271-0852 After 8.30 PM.  
WANTED: 6 Pitt, 6 Penn St., 4 Tenne8GA's 273-1364 FAST  leaving 10/19, returning 10/29 $250/ x3958-leave a message You don't need I.D. to Games! Sale: 2 Miami Married stu. Tix  ROUND-TRIP AMERICAN AIRLINES TICKET (EXP. 12/14/90 AND NOT GOOD T.G. WEEK) BEST OFFER. 259-7820.  CALL2210 I HAVE 2 MIAMI STD TICKETS CALL LUIS 2731528  WAY BAD!! I'LL BE YOUR BEST FRIEND AND GIVE YOU MONEY!! 272-1981 OR X1879  NEED 80TH MIAMI AND PENN STATE GA's!! PLEASE CALL 284-4350 ask for Kristin "CALL A.S.A.P."  
FUIDRAISING PROGRAM 1000a~..... Earn up to UOOO in one week for your campus organization. Plus a chance at $5000 more! This program works! No investment needed. c.11 1-IOMD-4528 IJd. so  1 Penn State married Tix.Call: 271-9059 Sale! Making a deal TV FOR SALE!!! 12-inch, black­and-white, portable television set for sale. Excellent condition . Make me an offer (trust me, I'm a VERY reasonable guy). Call j"08M~k> ''"i I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 Need Miami GAs & Studs Mike 273-1537  I NEED TWO PENN ST GA's! PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE I My parents will pay substancial amounts of cash. Call Marc at x1809. HELP!!!! Need some Miami GA's for big ND fans from Miami! Call Matt@ x3515 Selling 2 Miami stud together. Best offer by Wed 6PM. Call Sean @ 3068. NEED GA TIX FOR MIAMI. 1-800-323-7687 RANDY. WILL PAY TOP$$$.  Selling 2 Stu Miami Tixs 255-5283 SELL-3 Std Tix MIAMI call287-9763 Miami Student ticket for sale Best offer by 6pm Wed. 272-5643 HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL 273-1364 $$$$$ PROUD SMC POP NEEDS 3 TIX TO NO/MIAMI GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL WIL-217/223-9609.  Yes, I have MIAMI GA'S for sale 1!!1!!!!11!1!1!!!!!!!1!!!!11!1!111!!1!1!1!1!!!! x3760 4 Sale: 1 Miami Stu tix 1 Penn Stu Tix ca11Jen.X4084 Interested in going to the Tennessee game?? Call for information about a bus trip from South Bend that includes: transportation, hotel and TICKETS. Call Beth at 288-0597 for details  SELLING ONE MIAMI GA. CALL FRANK x1852 PERSONALS hiag Drummer looking to join a band. Open to any type of music. If interested call Rob: 233-7440. «LONG ISLAND BUS» Seats going fast! Call now to reserve spot on '1he bus from HELL"! Joni 1839,Janice 2993 & get$ in by 10/16! see CLASS I page 11  



Tuesday, October 16, 1990 The Observer page 11 
Rowdy Raider fans angry about ban on beer sales 
Due to continued stadium violence, commission enforces one game suspension on alcohol 


· AP Photo 
Rtcky Henderson and Carney Lansford have had plenty to celebrate ~~sT ~eason. CBS airs Game One of the World Series tonight at 8:30 
' 

AP Photo AI Davis may need this gesture to quell angry Raider fans because of no beer sales at last week's game. The measure was taken because of the rash of violence at the Coliseum. 
size of cups-from 20 to 16 His daughter, Haiders fan in holding a sports bottle, but 
ounces. Susan Campbell, said she neither it nor that fan's 
In addition, beer will not be thought the ban was a good backpaek was checked. 
sold after halftime, and the idea, but she said she had no­
allowable alcohol content will ticed people sneaking in beer. A female fan noted a positive 
be dropped from 3.6 percent to "In the parking lot outside the side effect of the ban. 
3.2 percent. stadium, tailgaters were "There was no line in the 
Also, a greater number of passing beer through the fence bathroom," she said. security guards and police to fans in the stadium," she And the lines were short at officers would be on duty dur­said. concession stands, where ing games, officials said. Some fans complained that before Sunday's ban the beer 
"The good people are being guards are inconsistent about sales represented about 30 punished for the stupid acts of what they allowed into the percent of concession a few," said Ben Campbell, a Coliseum. revenues. Seattle fan who was sitting in One man said Sunday that his the same section where the binoculars were checked to sen "It's a big ticket item, but Steelnrs fan was beaten three if they contained a flask. public safety comes first," weeks earlier. Another fan was seen walking Yaroslavsky said. 
CBS nervous as it prepares to broadcast first World Series since 1950 fall classic 
CJNCINN/\TJ (AP) -Players CBS producer Hie LaCivita and room. !\ cramplld mission 
aren't the only people with pregame producer Ed Goren control. 
World Series butterflies. CBS is weren't thinking about that as There are monitors for the 15 
nervous, too. they paced around Hiverfront cameras and 10 morp for 
The network is practically a Stadium at 9 a.m. Monday. vid•~otape machines. !\ half 
rookie when it comes to the "Tho job right now is basically dozen more monitors preview 
World Series, since it hasn't putting out fires," said the 38-graphics. 
broadcast one since 1950. And year-old LaCivita, a second CBS has Pven built a small set 
the ratings were down a bit in baseman at Harvard who behind the f1~nce in IPft-eentPr 
the playoffs. played in the College World field just for the pregame show. 
"We had only a four-game Series twice. "It's better than my 
series in the i\L," said Jeremy LaCivita was in charge of condominium," said a CBS 
Handelman, the CBS vice videotape replays during the employne who didn't want his 
president for program 1977 World Series on ABC. IJe nanw used. "Larry Tisch will 
planning. "The NL was good runs an easygoing operation, like that." 
but started a little bit slow. enouraging theme days and a Tiseh, the ehief executive 
Generally speaking, we're kangaroo eourt that levies officer of CBS Inc., is known 
pleased." small lines. more for cut budgets than cut 
The six prime-time playoff "Tomorrow will be fastballs. lie hasn't snenwd to 
games averaged a 13.5 rating, boutonniern night," he said. mind spending money on 
down 10 percent from last "Everyone will be wearing a sporting events, since CBS's 
year's night games on NBC. flower, but it has to be dead." rPgular prime-time sclwdule 
CBS paid $1.0H billion over four Fun aside, LaCivita has quitn has been slumping longPr than 
years for baseball and that's a task, managing about 165 the Atlanta Braves. 
one of the reasons it announeed people. There will be 15 Now wlwn most pnople think 
last wonk that third-quarter cameras in the stadium, almost of television, they think of 
earnings were down 30 percent double the regular-season set picturns. But one distinction of 
to $43.5 million. of eight. That's more than onn CBS' playoff coverage was the 
"I think they're getting hurt for every player on the field -audio. 
on the baseball deal," said Frnd even with the bases loaded. Mark Hadulovich. known as 
Anschel. an analyst with Dean "Everything is bigger," Goren Mr. Musie in thn truek, has four 
Witter Heynolds Inc. in New said. "Heporters write more microphonns pointed at thn 
York. "I don't want to sound stories during the World Series. infinld, two in tlw right-field 
chauvinistic, but the fact that It's the same thing. Everything bullpen, four in the outfield and 
no New York or Los Angeles is more in-depth." anotlwr in the ldt-lield bullpen. 
team is in it always takes The production trailer looks SevPral rPplay cameras also 
something away." like NASA's mission control have adjacent mikes. 
I.OS 1\NGI·:u·:s (/\1') -Fans lwld tlwir breath as the l.os /\n).(PII's Haidt-rs survivl'.d against thl' tPnal'ious Seattle SPahawks, and stadium SI'Cu­rity forres lril'd to makl' surP fans hl'ld thl'ir liquor sonw­plan• Plsl'. 
TIH' n·sults al'tPr a ont--ganw bi'Pr-sall' ban imposl'd at Sunday's Nl:l. ganH' at thl' l.os i\ng1•IPS Colisi'Um: 
-llaidl'rs 24, Sl'ahawks 17; -/\tlPndatll'l' fi0.fl24. lwer sail's 0; 
-l'olil'l~ rilations outside stadium H4, fan irll'id1•nts inside stadium I; 
-I'Popll' raught with akohol at gall' 24. lirkl'ts ront1sc:atPd 
24. tie. 

"W1• want bPI'r!" rhantl'd thousands in t.lw crowd to protest tlw orw-time ban on alrohol, imposed in an pffort to halt spectator vioiPnce. Signs spottPd among till' fans in­l'ludl'd thos1• n•ading "IIi Mom, Send Be11r" and "Bo Knows B1111r." 
ThP akohol ban was approved hy tlw Coliseum Commission af!Pr a Pittsburgh Steelers' fan n~c:Pived a rwar-fatal beating during a Sept. 23 game hntwiHln tlw Haiders and SlllniPrs. 
Paul /\lbrecht, 35, of Tucson, 1\riz., was hospitalized for more than a w1wk after the attack. Sharw c;nringer, 19, of /\goura, arrnsted for investigation of the hPating, was scheduled to appNtr in court latl' Monday. 
Policll said there were six arrests and 34 fan ejections from within the stadium Sunday after fans were searclwd upon entry and any beer or alcohol found was con­liscated. Authorities said two of the arrests and 24 of the l'jnr.tions wnrn akohol-r1~latnd. 
Tlw mrmbers were wPII below the :11 arnlsts and HH ejections at tlw last previous horne game, S11pt. 30 wlwn tlw Haid11rs bllat tlw Chicago Bears 24-10 and tlwrn was be11r sales. 
l.os /\ngPies City Couneilman Z11v Yaroslavsky, orw of the primP supporters of thn akohol ban in tlw stadium, said during tlw ganw: "Tiw atmosphere is IJPtlllr now and tlwrn arn f11wer 
incidents.  Basically, this is  
bPcoming  a  detoxification  
facility."  

Although H4 people were tickntl'd outsidP the ColisPum on Sunday for violating the akohol han, "thorn wPrn no fights," said Los /\ngnles Police Sgt. Stew LaHoehe. 
LaHoehn said tho only apparPnt incident inside the Colisnum on Sunday came whnn a Haidnrs fan allegndly spit on a Snahawks fan and was arrestnd for battery. The names of those involved were not made public. 
The police spokesman said officers roaming nearby parking lots and sidewalks in the area gave citations to H4 peopiP for possessing open containnrs of alcohol and drinking in public. 
LaHoch1~ dndinnd to say how many officers were on hand for Sunday's game. 
In futun~ games at the Colisnum. beginning with a University of Southern California homo game against Arizona on Saturday, beer sales will resume but the alcoholic content will drop as will the 

Need 1 Miami GA HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MISSY! Hey J EN: Pass out on any TACO TUESDAY!I!I HELPI!! Need a ride to Cleveland Call Kevin X1477 love, Lisa, Cat, and Adria. couches lately???? Nothing like TACO TUESDAY! I!! tor October break. 
Class 
going out on a WEDNESDAY night 20 CENT TACOS 9·12 Will help pay tor gas and tolls. continued from page 1 0 Geg Klimczak. go back to Dayton and getting Butt·wasted to boot. TERRACE LOUNGE Call Kathie X4045!!! where you belong, you schmuck. I NEED A RIDE BACK FROM Your so wild, I wish I could be just SOUTH BEND MARRIOTI THE D.C. AREA AFTER FALL SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN 
I need a ride to the Twin Cities Thanks tor coming to visit, don't be like you ..... 
BREAK. WILLING TO LEAVE Hey everybody! II Miami Tickets 4 Sale (ST) a stranger. Love and tongue after Miami! I Will help pay for gas ANY TIME DURING THE WEEK· yes. today is Missy Ertl's Call Dalys x4244 and lolls. kisses, John. 
I'LL SPLIT COSTS. CALL GINA 19th BIRTHDAY! Don't Miss The Final Contlictl Call Bill X2056 P.S. Tara Abbott is a geek. 
X4853 !!!! ·Cat+LiS 
"PRIME TIME" Minadeo· BEN ERINICN ASHIKIM 
HELP! I am stuck in Pittsburgh and I need a ride back lrom the FINANCE CLUB need a ride to South Bend tor the I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR Chapel Hill or Greensboro,After all your interviews. I'll smooch Any member interested in Congrats on your Grace· lui victory Miami game. If you can help me YOUNG ALUMNI AND WIFE NC area 10/27 or 10/28. I'll your BLs to cheer you up. Hugs playing Investment Challenge over Flanner and on another TD!I 
get to ND by Saturday, please call COMING IN FROM BOSTON pay gas $. Christine-3884.
and lots ot TB. 

come to mtg. tonight, Tues., Good luck in the playoffs I -Love and wet kisses from 
283·2346. CALL 277-9452. 
6:30pm room 222 HH. . Razz Warrick Street 
Scoreboard 
Tuesday, October 16, 1990 
page 12 

A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 NHL STANDINGS SERIES RECAP 
The Top Twenty Five teams In the Associated Press 1990 college football poll, with first-place votes 
In parentheses, records through Oct. 13, total points based on 25 points for a lirst-place vote through WALES CONFERENCE one point for a 25th-place vote, and last week's ranklngs: Pn;ck llivieion NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES Record I'll Pva This Week 
Away lliv

w L T I'll GF GA Home Thursday, Oct 4 1. Virginia (38) 6-0-0 1,454 2 at Wake Forest 
4 2 0 8 25 16 3-0-0 1-2·0 2-0-0
NY Rangers Pittsburgh 4, Cincinnati 3 2. Miami, Fla. (15) 4-1-0 1,414 3 at #6 Notre Dame New Jersey 3 2 1 7 24 23 3-0-1 0-2·0 1-2-0 Friday, Oct. 5 3. Tennessee (2) 4-0-2 1,354 5 ALABAMA Philadelphia 3 2 0 6 20 16 3-0·0 0-2-0 1-1·0 Cincinnati 2, Pittsburgh 1 4. Nebraska (3) 6-()..0 1,258 7 OKLAHOMA STATE P'ltlsburgh 3 2 0 6 24 20 1-0-0 2-2-0 3-0·0 Monday, Oct 8 5. Auburn 4-0-1 1,238 6 #7 FLORIDA STATE Washington 2 4 0 4 18 24 2-2-0 0-2-0 0-3-0 Cincinnati 6, Pittsburgh 3 6. Notre O.me (1) 4-1-0 1,208 8 #2MIAMI 
11 16 0-1-0 1-2-0 0-1-0

NY Islanders 1 3 0 2 Tuesday, Oct. 9 7. Florida St. 4-1-0 1,046 10 at #5 Auburn 
Cincinnati 5, Pittsburgh 3 B. Illinois 4-1-0 971 11 #24 MICHIGAN STATE Adome llivillon Wednesday, Oct. 10 9. Houston (1) 5-0-0 963 12 at Southern Methodist Boston 4 1 1 9 Pittsburgh 3, Cincinnati 2 10. Michigan 3-2-0 939 1 112210WA
24 16 2-Q..O 2-1-1 2-0-0 

Hartford 3 2 1 7 22 21 3-0-1 0-2-0 2-1-1 Friday, Oct. 12 11. Georgia Tech 5-0-0 835 18 at North Carolina 2-1-1
Montreal 3 2 1 7 19 20 3-0-0 0-2·1 Cincinnati 2, Pittsburgh 1 12. Brigham Young 5-1-0 830 13 Idle 6 22 26 0-1-1 2·1·1 1-2·2
Quebec 2 2 2 Cincinnati wins series 4-2 13. Washington 5-1-0 786 17 at Stanford Buffalo 0 3 2 2 17 21 0-2·1 14. Colorado 5-1-1 762 14 at Kansas
0-1-1 0-3-2 

AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 15. Southern Cal 5-1-0 761 16 ARIZONA CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Saturday, Oct. 6 16. Oklahoma 5-1-0 724 4 IOWA STATE Nom. llivielon Oakland 9, Boston 1 17. Florida 5-1-0 485 9 AKRON 
Home Away lliv

w L T I'll GF GA Sunday, Oct. 7 18. Mississippi 5-1-0 374 24 ARKANSAS STATE Chicago 4 2 0 8 20 14 2-0-0 Oakland 4, Boston 1 19. Texas 3-1-0 354 ARKANSAS
2·2-0 2·0·0 
26 0-2-2 0-0-1

Detroit 2 2 2 6 22 2-0-0 Tuesday, Oct. 9 20. Indiana 4-0-1 312 22 at Minnesota 
1-1-0 1-1-0

L 
St. Louis 2 3 0 4 10 18 1-2-0 Oakland 4, Boston 1 21. Wyoming 7-0-0 291 23 WEBER STATE 
~ Minnesota 1 4 1 3 15 23 1·2-1 0-2-0 0-2-0 Wednesday, Oct. 10 22. Clemson 5-2-0 278 15 at North Carolina State ()..3-0 0-0-1
Toronto 0 4 1 1 12 25 0-1-1 Oakland 3, Boston 1 22. Iowa 4-1-0 278 25 at 110 Michigan Oakland wins series 4-0 24. Michigan St. 2-2-1 193 at #8 Illinoisl Smy1he llivielon 25. Texas A& M 4-2-0 116 20 BAYLOR 
l 
1-1-1

Los Angeles 4 1 1 9 29 16 3-1-1 1-0-0 WORLD SERIES 
• ,­
Calgary 4 2 0 8 22 17 2-0-0 2-2-0 2-0-0 Tuesday, Oct 16 Other receiving votes: Texas Christian 89, Oregon 83, South Carolina 36, Ohio St. t 5, California 14, Vancouver 3 2 0 6 19 16 2-1-0 1-1-0 2-2-0 Oakland at Cincinnati, 8:32 p.m. Penn St. 12, Arizona 11, Louisville 5, Toledo 5, S. Mississippi 4, UCLA 2. Edmonton 1 2 15 15 Wednesday. Oct. 17
1 4 1-0-1 0-1-1 0-1-2 
4 1 3 19 19 1-2-0 ()..2-1 0-1-1
Winnipeg 1 Oakland at Cincinnati, 8:29p.m. 
Friday, Oct. 19 COLLEGE SCHEDULES TRANSACTIONS
Monday'a Game Cincinnati at Oa<land, 8:32 p.m. Montreal 3, Washington 1 Saturday, Oct. 20 T..,eday'aGamea Cincinnati at Oa<land, 8:29p.m. EAST Chicago at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. Sunday, Oct 21 Lafayette at Army 
BASEBALL Winnipeg at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. Cincinnati at Oakland, 8:29p.m., Wnecessary Penn St. at Boston College 
American L.eeg..,

Philadelphia at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. Tuesday, Oct 23 Penn at Brown 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Assigned Dan Boone, Hanford at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. Oakland at Cincinnati, 8:29 p.m., Wnecessary Maine at Connecticut 
pitcher, to Rochester ol the International League. 
St. Louis at Edmonton. 9:35p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 24 Dartmouth at Cornell 
NEW YORK YANKEES-Named Brian Cashman W~y'aGamea Oakland at Cincinnati, 8:29p.m.. Wnecessary Massachusetts at Delaware 
assistant to vice president of baseball operations
Montreal at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Colgate at Fordham and Jeff Mercer assistant director of minor league Winnipeg at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. Lehigh at Holy Cross operations.
Hartford at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Northeastern at New H~hire OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Activated Mike Bordick, Washington at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. Louisville at Pittsburgh Infield .... to replace Watt Weiss on the World Minnesota at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Harvard at Princeton Series roster. 
Boston at Vancouver. 10:35 p.m. Boston U. at Rhode Island 
Netional L.eegue
Rutgers at Syracuse ATLANTA BRAVES-Declined to exercise the Virginia Tech at Temple 1991 contract option of Ernie Whitt, catcher. 

NFL STANDINGS Uberty at Towson St. 
CHICAGO CUBS-Exercised the 1991 contractColurrbla at Yale option of Domingo Ramos, Infielder.
SOUTH 

SAN DIEGO PADRES-Named Mi<e Roarke and 
AMERICAN COI'FERENCE Southern U. at Alcorn St. 
Jim Snyder coaches and Andy Hancock scout.

NHLLEADERS EMt Westem Carolina at Appalachian St. w L T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC I'FC lllv Florida St. at Auburn 
Senior Profedionet Bouoebel l...ee.g..,

Buffalo 4 1 0 .800 130 99 3-0-0 1-1-0 4-1-0 ()..()..0 2·1-0 Middle Tennessee St. at Austin Peay 
SUN CITY RAYS-Signed Ferguson Jenkins, Bill
Miami 4 1 0 .800 108 73 2-0-0 2-1-0 4-0-0 0-1-0 3-0-0 Allany, Ga. at Bethune-Cookman 
Cafl'llbell and Fernando Arroyo, pitchers; Mark 

lndnplls 2 3 0 .400 81 108 1-1-0 1-2-0 1-3-0 1-0-0 0-2-0 Georgia Southam at Central Florida
Through Od. 14 Wagner, shortstop; Joel Youngblood and Ricky
NY Jets 2 4 0 .333 107 148 1-2-0 1-2-0 2-4-0 0-0-0 1-2-0 Maryland at Duke 
Peters, outfielders; Lenny Randle, second

N England 1 4 0 .200 80 152 ()..3-0 1-1-0 1-4-0 ()..().() 1-2-0 Tennessee St. at Eastern Kentucky
SCORING baseman; and Ronn Reynolds, catch .... 
Valdosta St. at East Tennessee St. 
Qn G A I'll I'm 
Cenlnl Cincinnati at East Carolina 
Grellky, LA 6 5 9 14 0 BASKETBALL
Clncnnatl 4 2 0 .667 154 153 2-0-0 2-2-0 3-2-0 1-0-0 0-1-0 Akron at Florida
Stevens, Pgh 5 4 10 14 11 Nelonal Baakeboll Aaaoclation
Houston 3 3 0 .500 146 125 2-1-0 1-2-0 3-1-0 0-2-0 1-1-0 South Carolina St. at Florida A&M 
Cullen, Pgh 5 1 LOS ANGELES LAKERS-Waived Mario Elie 
11 12 4 Pttsburgh 3 3 0 .500 102 101 2-1-0 1-2-0 3-3-0 ()..().() 1-1-0 Vanderbilt at Georgia
Larmer, Chi 6 5 6 11 10 and Phillip Holmes, guards, and Ken Redfield,
Cleveland 2 4 0 .333 98 139 1-1-0 1-3-0 2-3--0 0-1-0 1-0-0 Jackson St. at Grambling St. 
Turcolte, NYR 6 4 7 11 2 forward.
North Carolina A& T at Howard U.
Saklc,Que 6 3 8 11 2 
Weal Youngstown St. at James Madison
Nicholls, NYR 6 4 6 10 2 FOOTBALL
LA Raldrs 5 1 0 .833 123 90 4-0-0 1-1-0 4-1-0 1-0-0 3-()..0 Kentucky at LSU
Robitalle, LA 6 4 5 9 2 National Foobl League
Kan. City 4 2 0 .667 160 95 3-0-0 1·2-0 1-2-0 3-0-0 0-1-0 Tennessee-Chattanooga at Marshall
Yzerman. Dot 6 4 5 9 2 LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Traded Dennis
Denver 2 4 0 .333 141 161 2-2-0 0-2-0 2-4-0 0-0-0 2-1-0 Arkansas St. at Mississippi
Recchl, Pgh 5 3 6 9 19 Price, cornerback, to the New York Jets lor Alex
San Diego 2 4 0 .333 114 108 0-2-0 2-2-0 2-3-0 0-1-0 0-0-0 Samford at Morehead St. 
Leetch, NYR 6 2 7 9 1 Gordon, linebacker.
Seattle 2 4 0 .333 125 128 1-1-0 1-3-0 2-3-0 0-1-0 0-3-0 Delaware St. at Morgan St. 
Stastny, NJ 6 2 7 9 8 NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Fined Irving Fryar 
Clemson at North Carolina St. 
Suter, Cal 6 1 8 9 10 and Hart Lee Dykes, wide receivers, $1,000 for 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE Southwest Texas St. at NW Louisiana
Tocctl81, Pha 5 4 4 8 2 missing team meetings and practice last week. 
EMt NE Louisiana at Nicholls St. 
Macinnis, Cal 6 4 4 8 4 Canadian Football l...ee.g..,
w L T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC I'FC lliv Georgia Tech at North Carolina 
Roenlck, Chi 6 3 5 8 6 EDMONTON ESKIMOS-Added Larry Willis, 
NY Giants 5 0 0 1.000 130 67 3-0-0 2-0-0 1-0-0 4-0-0 4-0-0 Memphis St. at Southern Mississippi 
Chellos, Chi 6 2 6 wide receiver.
8 11 
Washlngtn 3 2 0 .600 121 75 2·1-0 1-1-0 0-0-0 3-2-0 3-1-0 C~adel at South Carolina 
MuDer, NJ 6 2 6 8 8 HAMILTON TIGER-CATS-Transferred Frank
Phlla 2 3 0 .400 123 119 1-2-0 1-1-0 0-1-0 2-2-0 0-2-0 Alabama at Tennessee 
Robinson, linebacker, to the Injured list.

Phoenix 2 3 0 .400 60 121 1-1-0 1-2-0 0-0-0 2-3-0 2-2-0 Mississippi St. at Tulane 
SASKATCHEWAN ROUGHRIDERS­

Dallas 2 4 0 .333 73 122 2-1-0 0-3-0 1-0-0 1-4-0 0-4-0 West VIrginia Tech at VMI 
Reactlvated Jeff Fairholm. running back, from the VIrginia at Wake Forest reserve list, and added him to the practice roster.
GOALTBDNG Centnl Bucknell at William & Mary (ErflliY-net goals In parentheses) Chicago 5 1 0 .833 142 75 4-0-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 4-0-0 3-0-0 MIDWEST 
HOCKEY

Tampa Bay 4 2 0 .667 134 124 2·1-0 2-1-0 0-0-0 4-2-0 4-0-0 Eastern Michigan at Bowling Green 
Netlonal Hockey l...ee.g..,

MP GA so Avg. Detroit 2 4 0 .333 141 169 1-2-0 1-2-0 0-1-0 2-3-0 1-3-0 Toledo at Central Michigan PHILADELPHIA FLYERS-Sent Murray Baron, 
Belour 299 9 0 1.81 Green Bay 2 4 0 .333 103 146 1·2-0 1-2-0 0-1-0 2-3-0 1-3-0 Southam Illinois at Eastem Illinois delenseman, to Hershey of the American HockeyCloutier 60 4 0 4.00 Minnesota 1 5 0 .167 140 135 1-2-0 0-3-0 0-1-0 1-4-0 0-3-0 Michigan St. at Illinois League.
CNcago(1) 360 14 0 2.33 Southwest Missouri St. at Illinois St. 
ST. LOUIS BLUES-Recalled Gordie Roberts, 
Moog 218 8 0 2.20 Weal Northam Iowa at Indiana St. 
delenseman, from Peoria of the International

Lemelin 147 8 0 3.27 San Fran 5 0 0 1.000 127 94 3-0-0 2-0-0 1·0-0 4-0-0 3-0-0 Colorado at Kansas Hockey League. 
Boetan 365 16 0 2.63 Atlanta 2 3 0 .400 137 139 2-0-0 0-3-0 1-0-0 1-3-0 1-2-0 Ohio U. at Kent St. 
VANCOUVER CANUCKS-Signed Kirk Mclean,
Berthiaume 120 3 0 1.50 NewOrlns 2 3 0 .400 95 100 2-1-0 0-2-0 1'0-0 1-3-0 0-2-0 Iowa at Michigan goaltender, to a one-year contract, plus an optionHrudey 245 13 0 3.18 LA Rams 1 4 0 .200 120 149 0-2-0 1-2-0 0-1-0 1-3-0 0-0-0 Indiana at Minnesota year.
l.oe~ 365 16 0 2.63 Kansas St. at Missouri Vanblesbrouck 179 7 1 2.35 Sunday'• Ga!M& Murray St. at Northern Illinois Richter 179 9 0 3.02 San Francisco 45, Atlanta 35 
COLLIEGE

Oklahoma St. at Nebraska 
NEW YORK U.-Named Bill McNally men's 

NYR8ngera 360 16 1 2.67 Houston 48, Cincinnati 17 Wisconsin at Northwestern assistant basketball coach. 
Wamsley 184 8 0 2.61 Kansas C~y 43, Detro~ 24 Miami, Fla. at Notre Dame NORTH CAROLINA-ASHEVILLE-AnnouncedVernon 180 10 0 3.33 New Orleans 25, Cleveland 20 Ohio St. at Purdue the resignation at Steve Pope. baseball coach and 
Clllgary 365 18 0 2.96 San Diego 39, New York Jets 3 Portland St. at Western Illinois assistant director of athletics, effective Dec. 31.
Beauregard 239 12 0 3.01 Tampa Bay 26, Green Bay 14 Ball St. at Western Michigan SUNSHINE CLASSIC-Announced ~ isTabaraccl 124 7 0 3.39 Pittsburgh 34, Denver 17 SOUTHWEST changing its name to the Blockbuster Bowl. 
Wlrftpeg 365 19 0 3.12 Los Angeles Raiders 24, Seattle 17 
McNeese St. at North Texas Garrble 154 5 1 1.95 Phoenix 20, Dallas 3 
Iowa St. at Oklahoma Mclean 147 11 0 4.49 New York Giants 24. Washington 20 
Texas Tech at Rice v-301 16 1 3.19 Chicago 38, Los Angeles Rams 9 
Stephen F. Austin at Sam Houston St. Wregge! 143 7 0 2.94 OPEN DATE: Buffalo, Indianapolis, Miami, New England SERIES MVPs 
Houston at Southam Methodist Hextall 155 8 0 3.10 
Arkansas at Texas """-de-ptia (1) 300 16 0 3.20 Monday'a Game 
Baylor at Texas A& M Sldorklewlcz 245 12 0 2.94 Philadelphia 32, Minnesota 24 195!>--Johnny Podres, Brooklyn (NL) 
Mississippi Valley St. at Texas Southern Whitmore 118 9 0 4.58 1956-Don Larsen, New York (AL)
SW Louisiana at Tulsa Hor\lanl 365 21 0 3.45 Tlanday'a Game• 1957-Lew Burdette, Milwaukee (NL)
FAR WEST Ranford 250 15 0 3.60 New England at Miami, 8 p.m. UCLA at CaiKornla 1958-Bob Turley, New York (AL) 
Eanonton 250 15 0 3.60 1959--Larry Sherry, Los Angeles (NL) 
New Mexico at Colorado St. Riendeau 180 10 0 3.33 Sunday'• Ga!M& Idaho at Eastern Washington 1960--Bobby Richardson. New York (AL) Joseph 120 7 0 3.50 Dallas at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m. Long Beach St. at Fresno St. 1961-WMey Ford, New York (AL) St. l.oula (1) 300 18 0 3.60 Denver at Indianapolis, 1 p.m. Fullerlon St. at Hawaii 1962-Ralph Terry, New York (AL) Rev 304 18 0 3.55 New Orleans at Houston, 1 p.m Northern Arizona at Montana 1963-Sandy Koufax, Los Angeles (NL) ....... 305 19 0 3.74 New York Jets at Buffalo, 1 p.m. 1964-Bob Gibson, St. Louis (NL)
Idaho St. at Montana St. Casey 304 17 0 3.36 Philadelphia at Washington, 1 p.m. Arizona St. at Oregon 1965--Sandy Koufax, Los Angeles (NL) Myllys 58 5 0 5.17 Atlanta at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m Washington St. at Oregon St. 1966-Frank Robinson, Baltimore (AL) .......... (1) 365 23 0 3.78 Kansas City at Seattle, 4 p.m. New Mexico St. at PacKic U. 1967-Bob Gibson, St. Louis (NL) Burke 183 11 0 3.61 Phoenix at New York Giants, 4 p.m. Lilah St. at San Jose St. 1968-Mickey Lolich, Detro~ (AL) Terrerl 180 12 0 4.00 Pittsburgh at San Francisco, 4 p.m. Arizona at Southam Cal 1969-Donn Clendenon, New York (NL) New .Ieney 364 23 0 3.79 Los Angeles Raiders at San Diego, 4 p.m. Washington at Stanford 197~rooks Robinson, Baltimore (AL) Hackett 100 5 0 3.00 OPEN DATE: Chicago, Detroit, Green Bay, Minnesota Nevada at UNLV 1971-Roberto Clemente, Pittsburgh (NL) Healy 139 11 0 4.75 1972--Gene Tenace, Oakland (AL)
Texas-EI Paso at Lilah NY lalandets 240 16 0 4.00 Monday'• GarrMe Weber St. at Wyoming 1973--Reggie Jackson, Oakland (AL) Barrasso 180 12 0 4.00 Cincinnati at Cleveland, 9 p.m. 1974-Rollle Fingers, Oakland (AL) Pietrangelo 119 8 0 4.03 1975---Pete Rose, Cincinnati (NL) Pllotugh 300 20 0 4.00 1976-Johnny Bench, Cincinnati (NL) Malarchuk 59 4 0 4.07 1977-Reggie Jackson, New York (AL) 
RESULTS 

Puppa 248 17 0 4.11 1978-Bucky Dent, New York (AL) 
NFL BOX 

Bullalo 310 21 0 4.06 197~WIIIie Stargell, Pittsburgh (NL) Hanlon 29 2 0 4.14 1980-MI<e Schmidt, Philadelphia (NL) 
Weekend Sporla
M...-ota 7 14 0 3 -24 Women's volleyball lost to Ohio State (15-2, 15-1, 
Cheveldae 344 24 0 4.19 1981-Ron Cay, Pedro Guerrero and Steve 
Dalralt 374 26 0 4.17 Philadelptia 9 0 6 17 -32 Yeager, Los Angeles (NL) 
Third Ouarter 15-6),1ndlana (12-15, 15-13, 15-11, 15-8) 
Llut 278 19 0 4.10 First Quarter 1982-Darrell Porter, St. Louis (NL) Hrivnak 20 2 0 6.00 Ph>-f'G Ruzek 38, 2:48. Ph>-FG Ruzek 30, 6:13. 1983--Rick DoflllSey, Baltimore (AL) 
Phf-Willlarns 19 pass from Cunningham Ph>-FG Ruzek 29, 8:03. Women's soccer del. Northwestern, 11-1
WlloiW1giDn 300 21 0 4.20 1984-Aian Trammell, Dotron (Al) Tugnutt 176 8 0 2.73 (kick failed), 8:14. Fourth Quarter 1985-Bret Saberhagen, Kansas City (AL) Tanner 85 6 0 4.24 1986--Ray Knight, New York (NL) 
Min-C.Carter 42 pass from Gannon MI~G lgwebuke 33, :Q!I. Football del. Air Force, 57-27 
Phf-Barnett 40 pass from Cunningham 
Gordon 108 11 0 6.11 (lgwebulke kick), 9:38. 1987-Frank Viola, Minnesota (AL) 
Ouebac: (1) 370 26 0 4.22 Second Quarter (Ruzek kick), 11 :00. Baseball del. Air Force, 12-5 1988--0rel Hershiser, Los Angeles (NL) lng 59 3 0 3.05 1989-Dave Stewart, Oakland (AL)
Ml~enney 1 run (lgwebui<e kick), 7:46. Phf-Toney 6 run (Ruzek kick), 11:59. Min-C.Carter 78 pass from Gannon Ph>-FG Ruzek 19, 13:07. Women's cross-country finished second In th e
~ 122 10 0 4.92 Bester 123 11 0 5.37 
(lgwebuke kick), 12:15. Indiana Intercollegiate Championships 
T-(1) 305 25 0 4.92 

Tuesday, October 16, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Head Big Ten official appologizes to Moeller for call 
No call on pass interference in closing seconds dashes Wolverine hopes of championship 

ANN AHBOH, Mic:l1. (AP)­Dave Parry. the supervisor of Bi~ Ten oflkials, has apolo~izod to Michigan coach Cary Moeller for a blown call that sealed tho Wolverines' 2H-27 loss to Miehigan State, costing them tlw No. I ranking and a dear track to the Hose Bowl. 
"lie was just calling up to say how he felt about the matter. that tlwy had talked to the otlkials," Moeller said Monday durin~ his weekly news lundwon. "lie told rne they blew it. lie said they missed it on tlw pass interferenee." 
Tlw play in question came with six seconds left in Saturday's game. Michigan, which had just scored to pull within a point of the Spartans, tried to win the game with a two-point conversion. 
But receiver Desmond lloward was bumped and knocked down by defender Eddie Brown. then droppnd the pass from Elvis Grbae after hit­ting the ground. 
There was no flag from the oflieials indicating interference and no signal indicating lloward had possession long enough for a catch. Thus, the score remained 2H-27. 
Moeller said Perry assured him that tapes of the play have 
been sent to every Big Ten officiating crew. "They know it," Moeller said. "So what can I say to him?" 
The crew, headed by referee John Nealon, was the same that worked the Illinois-Ohio State game a week earlier. Illinois won that game when no flag was thrown on an apparent forward lateral that went for a touchdown. 
'The thing I worry about with offieials is if you don't have something, don't call it," Moeller said. "So if you don't throw the flag, then you never saw anything. 
"It's the same thing that happened to us at Notre Dame. Maybe we'd be better off having a poor athlete out there, so if he fell down they'd think something happened. 

"Something's got to be done, obviously, but I don't know what. I don't think it's a matter of people trying to cheat." 
Moeller was asked if he thought college football was ready for instant replay, like the NFL. 
"I think it's ready for it, but I don't know if we can afford it," he said. "What do you do if that game's not on TV'? What do you do with schools that can't afford the equipment? 
"There's got to be a reason for this happening and there's got to be a solution. But I don't know if it's instant rnplay. Does that mean the Mid-American Conference has to have instant replay? Does Adrian and the other Division III schools'?" 
Moellnr said he won't dwell on the subject 
"We've got to tackle," he said. "If we'd done that, them wouldn't bn any problem with the officiating." 
Lee 
continued from page 16 
"We don't even have a mili­tary drafl in this country." said StninbPrg, "but wn draft foot­hall players. We really nend to see systnrns like free agency. l'rnn agnncy is free enterprise." 
Anticipating concerns that players would drift toward d­tins associated with winning traditions, Steinberg said that wouldn't bP the case. 
"!'layers would spread, and would choose to live where tlwy wanted. Some players might not like the traffic and smog in Los Angeles, or the pn~ s s u n~ i n New Yo r k an d would choosn to live somnplace like Gn~nn Bay. You also wouldn't havn Jon Montana, .Jim Kelly, and Dan Marino mmpnting for the same spot." 
Assodatt~ Athletic Director and SID of Notrn Dame, Hognr Valdt~s•~rri then spoke on sports agnnts in the Notre Damn community, t~mphasizing tlw Nlucation of Irish playnrs. 
"Wn try to help our playnrs wnnd out tho bad agents, and tlwre arn a lot of had onns," said Valdeserri. "We cannot lby NCAA regulations! interfere with our athletes' selection of agents." 
Valdeserri indicated that there was a problem with agents soliciting Irish players on campus. 
"Some of the players have had to have their phones shut off !because agents were con­stantly calling them!. 
"Haghib Ismail. even last year. came to me and said that hn had to go to the library to get away from the agents, and some have even found him there." 
Steinbmg then procended to takn questions from the audi­ence, whkh consisted mostly of law students. 
Hesponding to a question about contract renegotiation, Steinberg thought that it has a place in pro football. 
"Virtually no contracts are guaranteed in football. If a player gets a career-ending in­jury, he gets the rest of his salary for that year, and $65,000 the next year, and nothing after that. 
"Basketball and baseball 

contracts are usually guaranteed, and that puts a 
strong  emphasis  on  not  
renegotiating.  
"It's  appropriate  to  talk  

about it !renegotiating!. but not to miss [training] camp when you have a contract." 
lie indicated that one of his players wanted to renegotiate his contract, but n~l'used to go to camp, and Steinberg then dropped him as a client. Steinberg said that the player has just signed a new contract, at which point most of the au­dience realized that he was talking about Erie Dickerson. 
Steinberg finished by answering a question about college players leaving school early to play pro ball. 
"Any athlete should be able to enter the professional leagues at any time the league will take them. 
"I wish every college athlete would graduate. !Bull if play­ers can leave at any time, then what you have is true student­athletes who want to be in col­lege." 
Saint Mary's volleyball wins one loses two; Concordia falls while Nazareth and Calvin are victorious 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team came out with a win after Thursday's struggle against Concordia College. The Belles came back strong after a first game defeat (13-15, 15-13, 15­12, 15-6). However, over the weekend, the Belles lost to Nazareth College on Friday (6­15, 15-5, 7-15, 11-15) and to 11th ranked Calvin College on Saturday (8-15, 15-11, 8-15, 10-15). 
"I set goals to really improve on backcourt defense. We have made some strides and I've really seen extreme effort defensively." said head coach Sue Medley. 
During Thursday's match, eo-captain Katy Killilea led the team with 28 kills, 20 digs and 4 service aces. "We were very successful going outside. She Nazareth College and Calvin College, the problem was the inconsistent style of play. "Wn need to compete every point of every game of every match," explained coach Medley. "We're playing in streaks and we cannot win giving the teams the early leads we've been giving them." 
Sophomore Karen Lorton performed well during the matches against both Nazareth and Calvin. Against Nazareth she had 1 H digs, five blocks and two service aces. Against Calvin she came up with 13 kills, 11 digs and 11 blocks. 
"The girls arn working hard to prepare for the matches," continued coach Medley. "We need to concentrate on executing once the match starts." 
The Belles will wrap up 



YeS' please send me an application and 
information on Columbia's MPA Program. 
NAME 
ADDRESS 

Nancy 0el(11an, A""i•tant Oe•n PHONE 
AVAILABLE FROM HALL REPS, LA FORTUNE INFO DESK. BOOKSTORE, THE PRO SHOP, AND GSU OFFICE 
is our outside hitter and we their home schedule with a went to her over and over 7:00 match against Division II again," Medley praised. University of Indianapolis on 
In the matches against Tuesday, October 16. 
WEAR IT 
AMERICAN
I

WITH CL1\SS! WCANCER 
'SOCIETY® 

NOTRE DAME VS MIAMI "':z:
-

~t~R IT... tA,. 
=I
·rrrll CL~sS· 
CLASS OF '94 • MONDAY • OG 15 CLASS OF '93 • TUESDAY • OG 16 CLASS OF '92 • WEDNESDAY • OG 17 CLASS OF '91 • THURSDAY • OG 18 All CLASSES • FRIDAY • OG 19 EVERYONE • SATURDAY • OCT 20 
MJ~A Pro«ram, ('olumbia llnivenity SchcH~ of International & Public AffairJol. 420 West IIHth Street, Rm 1417 N•w York. NY IOO'l7, (212) 1!54·2167 

AP Photo Mike Quick of the Eagles couldn't catch up to this pass in a game earlier this season, but Philadelphia blew past the Minnesota Vikings with two late touchdowns. 
NFL owners to discuss media issues 
Locker room policy heads list of various controversies 
CHICAGO (AP)-National Football League owners will open two days of meetings Tuesday to discus media relations policies and hear committee reports on a variety of subjects. 
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue will chair the meetings that are expected to end Wednesday. 
"Locker room policy will be 
Irish 
continued from page 16 

was only one of many unfin­ished opportunities for both teams. 
Next up for both teams are meetings with various midwest­ern soccer powers. 
"We've got a game with !USB this Friday," stated Belles coach Van Meter. "and we need to reaffirmed." Michael McCaskey, president of the Chicago Bears, said. "The commissioner will stress the importance of a good relationship with the media. The public has the right to know and get the feel of what has happened on the field." 
The owners also are expected to hear committee reports on realignment and expansion, tampering rules, and the 
keep up this level of intensity. 
After IUSB, we travel to Bowling Green and Wooster over break, and both of those games will be difficult. Wooster is also up for a Division III tournament bid. It will be diffi­cult to play them after break." 
The Irish, meanwhile, host Calvin College from Kalamazoo, Michigan on Saturday morning at 10 a.m. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

situation concerning international games involving the World League of American 
Football. 

McCaskey said the financial committee would study ownership policies and if there is a need for any changes. None of the issues are expected to be resolved until the March meetings, McCaskey said. 
The popular issue will be the one concerning locker room access, especially by women reporters, in view of the incidents involving the New England Patriots and coach Sam Wyche of the Cincinnati Bengals. 
Lisa Olson of the Boston Herald recently claimed she was harassed by members of the Patriots and Wyche drew a heavy fine from the league for barring Denise Tom of USA Today from the Bengals locker room. 
Talk to Rick Telander, the infamous co-author of Sports Illustrated's Steve Huffman story, live on WVFI-640 AM SPORTSTALK tonight from 8-9 
p.m. Join hosts Vic Lombardi and Hugh McGowan, as they discuss the commercialization and contamination of college football. Call in at 239-6400. 
The Notre Dame Sailing Team will have a meeting today at 6:30 p.m. in Rm.205 O'Shag. 
The Notre Dame Sailing Team will be conducting a football concession stand this weekend in front of Dillon Hall. They will be selling food, "The Cause" t-shirts, as well as their own team t-shirts. 
"Walk-away" -Shari Veith from the Department of Human Resources will lead the noontime walk today. Participants should meet in front of Washington Hall at 12:10 p.m. 

A WEEK OF EXCITING SALES & EVENTS 
Located 1f2 Block South of SR 23 on I ron wood COME IN TO REGISTER FOR THE LAS VEGAS DRAWING GRAND PRIZE-Las Vegas Drawing, October 25-28, 1990. See store for details. FREE PRIZES ALL WEEK LONG... 
WE CARRY SOFTWARE FOR: IBM AMIGA APPLE MACINTOSH 
• Computers • Peripherals • Plus a complete selection of books & magazines 
(219) 272-5484 
1724 N. Ironwood Suite B 
~--__


SERVING YOUR MICROCOMPUTER NEEDS SINCE 1980
' 

Tuesday, October 16, 1990 Eagles' two touchdowns in one minute beat Vikes 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Rich Gannon and Cris Carter threatened to turn the NFL's Survival Bowl into a homecom­ing Monday night. 
Seth Joyner, William Frizzell and some funny bounces spoiled it. 
The Philadelphia Eagles beat the Minnesota Vikings 32-24 Monday night, scoring twice in a 59-second span late in the fourth quarter to overcome deficits of 12 points at halftime and nine with four minutes to go. 
But then Randall Cunningham threw a 40-yard touchdown pass to Fred Barnett that bounced off both Michael Brim of the Vikings and Calvin Williams of the Eagles. Then Joyner sacked Gannon and Clyde Simmons recovered the fumble on the Minnesota 6 and Anthony Toney burst in for the winning score with 4:01 left. 
And Frizzell, who earlier had recovered a fumble and stopped a drive with a sack, clinched it with an interception he returned 33 yards to the Minnesota 5 with just over two minutes left and set up Roger Ruzek's clinching field goal with 
1:53 left. The 19-yarder was 
Belles 

continued from page 16 
"Mao" deflected the ball and jumped right up to retrieve the ball again. 
"My goalkeeper was wonder­ful," said Belles head coach Tom Van Meter. "She had no collegiate experience before this year and she really has shown tremendous effort." 
The Belles came out and played hard and the team along with Mary Alice gave it their all. "Mao played one of the best games of the season." commented co-captain Trish Troester, 
Ruzek's fourth of the game. 

That left the Eagles at 2-3 and the Vikings at 1-5 in a battle of two playoff teams fallen on darker days. Minnesota's five losses have come by a total of 21 points. 
Until the last-quarter heroics, it was a night for Gannon. who learned his football on the playgrounds of Northeast Philadelphia, and Carter, cut by Philadelphia in September despite 11 touchdown receptions last season. 
They combined for touchdowns of 42 and 78 yards as the Vikings jumped off to a 21-9 halftime lead and 24-15 until the final four minutes.. 
Gannon, who has started the last thr<~e games for the injured Wade Wilson, was 18-for-35 for 270 yards, his best game as a pro. Carter, inserted in the lineup after Anthony Carter injured a hand in the first period, caught six passes for 151 yards after having just three catches for 30 yards in the first five games. 
Two other former Eagles, Ken Clarke and Thomas Strauthers, chipped in with three of Minnesota's five sacks, two by Strauthers. 
"We all played a really good 
game," added O'Neill.  "We  
played a quality game.  
"Notre Dame expected  us to  

be of low calibre but we came in and gave them a run for their money." 
Saint Mary's faces Indiana University-South Bend on Friday and Mary Alice O'Neill will continue to guide the growing and tough Saint Mary squad. 
WEAR IT WITH CLASS! 
~,-. 
.., 
~ 
tl 

~ IACCOUNTING SENIORS I 
PLANNING TO TAKE THE MAY 1991 CPA EXAM ARE INVITED TO ATTEND AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING TO DISCUSS 
THE NOTRE DAME CPA REVIEW PROGRAM 

STUDENT DISCOUNT AVAILABLE 
Registration must be received by October 19 
DETAILS AT MEETING OR CALL 
EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS Room 137 Hayes-Healy 
239-5285 



---------~------~-~-------------­
OPP t (It lArlnh() v~=:h:>curT Tuesday, October 16, 1990______________________________~T~he~O~b~s~e~N~e~r____________________________________________~p~a~g~e~1~5 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Records sent to a deejay 6 Derisive sound DCap 12 Deter 13 Sicilian volcano 15 Home of the Baylor Bears 16 Caribbean chain 18 Fateful March date 19 Gun fanciers' org. 20 Bar orders 21 Turned ashen 23 Steep tea 24 Radio item 25 Shore bird 
27 Right 30 Pungent 31 Sit 32 Cato's 1,052 34 Ore.'s Mount 
35 Essayed 36 Vend 37 Steel~mill waste 38 Tear 39 No longer fresh 40 Allies, to the 
Axis 42 Luminaries 43 Sea bird 44 Encircle 45 Hit hard, old 
style 47 Senor's home 48 Likely 51 Pour forth 


Tuesday 
7:30 
pm. l.neturn: Second of a Five Part Series. "Hhkal l'nrspnetiv1~s on llomosnxuality," Richard Mohr. l'h.l>., Univnrsity of Illinois. llesburgh Library Audito­rium. 

7:30 
pm. I.Pcture: "The Hole of Gnnder in National Se­eurily I>iseours1~." Cnntnr for Continuing Education Audi­torium. 


MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Batter Fried Perch Roast Turkey Fettucini Alfredo 
Saint Mary's 

Breaded Veal Steak w/ Mushroom Sauce Chicken and Bean Tostada Pasta Vegetable Bake Deli 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
TI-I~T CL0\10 OF ~t: ~URL ~RO\JG~ M-l ST~R'5 IS OUR iiKtlMPR£!-IE~StBlf. Dft.R~5S. Gft.\..fl.l('{ ' 1\\£ I~ COS!".IC. 1t.R!#.S, ~~ f>R£ MILK'i Wt>-'i. SIJ~\01'111( Pr..RitCL£S IN SellAR S'iS\tl'll f.. GRf>..llll o~ St>.ND a" ,_N
1cs oo m~:. IN.~\1111~ 8EKH. £{X;E 01= IT. 
I 

THE FAR SIDE 
.,.,:::-+:;+;-t-=-1 14 Hoped for 15 Capital of the Netherlands Antilles 17 Russian refusal 
--~~m~~m· 111~8-=+~~ 22 Swiss river 

"' .=..j..:-+-''.fll!l =+~;+::;;t;B 23 Barbados's capital 

4-:;;+;;+.,~ 24 Gave medication 
52 French Caribbean isle 
55 Band instrument 
56 N.Y. canal 
57 Emaciated 
58 Consumed 
59 Network tor "60 Minutes" 
60 Akin on the mother's side 
DOWN 
1 Daybreak 2Aiways 3 Butte's cousin 4 Food particle 
for Spot s Emotionally 
moved 6 Moisten 1 Elevator man 8 Single 9 Stow cargo 
10 Chilled 11 Author-­Passos 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
47 Place for corn 
or baby 48 Bluish green 49 Pigskin ploy 50 Pierre's pate 51 Govt. mortgage 
agency 53-de Triomphe, Paris 54 Author Fleming 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"Zak! Dlln't eat parsley! Just for looks!" GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE 
25 School, on 52 Across 26 Response to a bad pun 27 Nickels and dimes 280bvious 29 Works on soil 300ohsand­31 Fluff one's feathers 33-de France 35 Ancient galley 
SPELUNKER 

39 U.S. Open golf champ: 1988-89 41 N.Y. opera house, fondly 42 Mexican's emphatic "yes" 44 Portals 45 Kind of machine 46 Additional 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 

GARY LARSON 



"All units prepare to move In! ... "And don't you flare your nostrils at me, either!" He's glvln' him the duck now!" 
Sports
page 16 Tuesday, October 16, 1990 
Notre Dame beats Saint Mary's 1-0 in soccer battle 
Lester provides O'Neil shines in twelfth goal of goal for Belles season for Irish in close defeat 
BY DAVE DIETEMAN By TASHA TIGHT 
Sports Writer Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's The Saint Mary's soccer team soecer team eeked out a 1-0 lost to the University of Notre win last night over Saint Mary's Dame yesterday 1-0, but one College at Saint Mary's Field in player for the Belles stole the a game of friendly rivals. show and emerged a winner. 
Head coaehes Chris Petrucelli Goalie Mary Alice O'Neill, a and Tom Van Meter squared off junior from Binghamton, N.Y., in a battle of wits on par with is an unsung hero for this the machinations of Anatoly year's tough Saint Mary squad. Karpov and Gary Kasparov at O'Neill has played a major lastweek's World Chess role for the Belles who are now Championships, juggling 11-3-1. She has recorded 7 chances and risks as they shutouts in the 15 games of her orchestrated their players' im­eollegn earnnr. pressive display of skill and O'Neill had a tn~mendous pride. game against the Irish and h!~r 
Both teams attaeked early and effort along with that of the en­often, as play ranged all over tire defense enabled the Belles the field in a game charac­to control the speedy attack of terized by intense, almost sur­Notre Dame. 
gically-precise play. "Mary Alien O'NPill's ~~fTorts 
''I'm very proud of how we kPpt the ball out of thP nnt." played." said Saint Mary's head said Notre Dame !wad coach coach Tom Van Meter. "We just Chris Petrucelli. "She had an came off a tough loss against "In the first half. Saint Mary's Howdy benches, enthusiastic unstoppable force cold in its incrndible individual effort. 
Calvin College, and I was proud was very motivated and we fans and spirited play charac­tracks. "She saved four balls that of the way that we hung tough were not. I knew that they terized the first half. as both Alison Lester of Notre Dame should have been goals. If against Notre Dame. We really would be motivated. but I guess teams saw offensive chanees finally ended the scoring O'N1~ill had saved the goal had some ehanees and some that this was my first exposure stymied and shut down. In that drought, however, with a mere Lestm scored I would haw had breakaways. I think my kids to this rivalry. Still, they were half. the Beiles outgunned the five minutes left in the contest. her ovnr for dinrwr." played superbly. very motivated and played hard. Irish six shots to three. In the first half. ()':-.Jeill made 
"You hate to lose any game, This was a tough loss for them Lester dribbled up the left side many incrndibln saves. especially against sueh a high­and a great win for us. Anytime Despite the seemingly low of the field and around one Belle Towards the Pnd of the half quality team. This is a friendly you score a goal late and win a shot total, each team had to defender. before she launehed a Marianne Giolitto shot a corner rivalry, and I think that the game like that, you gain lots of dodge its share of bullets, as the veritable rocket of a shot kiek to Alison Lester who game was tough and hard, but momentum." Belles and the Irish eaeh eame beyond the reaeh of goalkeeper headed the ball. O'Neill clean. Tempers are a part of the painfully dose to posting scores. O'Neill and into the opposite jumped up and pulled it right game, but it was dean. I was "I thought we totally domi­The first half slammed to a corner for a 1-0 Irish out of the goal. In the second extremely pleased." nated the second half," contin­close with the game tied at 0-0. advaptage. half, Alison Lester drilled a 
hard shot into the goal to eatchued Petrucelli. "The big difl'er­
Notre Dame head coach Chris ence for us was that Stephanie Yet in the second half, Notre The goal was Lester's twelfth the Belles goalie off guard. Petrucelli, who guided the other Porter and Margaret Jarc took Dame seemed to play with a this season, which is two short "It was a great shot to the far friendly rival, concurred with over the midfield for us. In the little more intensity, attacking of the Notre Dame single-season corner and I didn't mact well his counterpart's assessment. first half, Saint Mary's mid­relentlessly at the outset. The scoring record of 14 (held by enough," remarked O'Neill. " 
fielders Amy Ross, Molly Belles, however, quickly turned Susie Zilvitis). Alison Lester is a great player "The kids from Saint Mary's O'Connell. Stacy Winget, and the tables, breaking up the Irish and she hit a perfeet shot at the played a great game," noted Trish Troester won every ball offense and launching an Only moments earlier, Trish perfect time." 
Petrucelli. "They really deserve that came their way, and we offensive assault of their own. Troester of Saint Mary's cut off Throughout the rest of the a heck of a lot of credit. Our couldn't take it away. They re-the Irish attempt to dear a game, Mary Alice continued to kids did what the had to do to ally played a great game. I had Neither of the teams' efforts Belles' corner kick and fired a make erucial saves. After win, and Alison Lester was thought that we would be able amounted to a goal, however, as towering chip shot over the Lester scored, she broke away good as always. Saint Mary's to move the ball around more in both defensive units made their goal. Troester's monster shot and met O'Neill one on one. was very good today, and I give the first half. They were just cases for the view that an them a lot of credit. very good." immovable object will stop an see IRISH/ page 14 see BELLES 1 page 14 
Steinberg contends athletes are no different from other entertainers 
By RICH KURZ Yet Steinberg is not the in-Speaking yesterday, along much money," said Steinberg, business, with regard to pay Sports Writer tense, money-grubbing person with Notre Dame Sports "but you never hear them com-scale and a player's right to that a top sports agent is often Information Director Roger plaining when Michael Jackson choose where he wants to 
Lee Steinberg may best be assumed to be. Rather, he be-Valdeserri, at the Notre Dame makes $100 million on a work. known as the sports agent who Iieves that the sports business Law School, Steinberg empha-record, or when Sylvester "The eoneept of worth isn't got Andre Ware and Jeff is too often devoid of morals sized that sports is simply a Stallone makes $17 million for the social value we placP on it George, among others, multi-that most people take for sector of the entertainment a movie like Rambo." (thP job), but the competitive million dollar contracts before granted, and as if to prove it, business. Steinberg was adamant in market value I for the labor!. they had ever suited up for a donated his speaking fee to the "People ask me if I think pro-his view that sports should be professional game. Center for the Homeless. fessional athletes make too treated like any other type of see LEE 1page 13 
/ Referees have to blow the whistle at the end of game 
The National Hockey League season has just be-campus's premier sports broadcaster. In <_tddition to gun. The National Basketball Association will soon Ken Tysiac t~e b~g interview with Tclander. Lombar~1 an~_hor.ed kick off its season. And I have something 1 have to Associate Sports Editor h1s first-ever spo~ts bro<l:dcast for WSJV-1 V 28 
get off my chest about both sports. Monday. Lombardi filled 111 for usual anchorman It's the officating. It stinks. sonal fouls for potentially career-ending injuries. Mitch Roberts, who was out of town. In the NIILY the fighting is a problem, of course. For instance, on the play last year when Chicago's ••• 
But forget about that for a second, and think about Michael Jordan was viciously pulled to the ground Notre Dame football note: I am going to puke ev­something which is even more unnerving. In the last by Detroits's Dennis Rodman in Game Two of the ery time I hear one of the following things in the four minutes of a close game the officials swallow semifinals of the NBA Playoffs, Rodman didn't even next week. their whistles. They are afraid that they will decide a draw a personal foul Instead, he was voted defensive 1. "The hatred between the Irish and Miami is out close game by giving a team a power play at the end player of the year. Not that the Bulls didn't commit of hand. I really wish a few students wouldn't give of the game. This gives the goons of the game li-their share of hard fouls; center Bill Cartwright is all of Notre Dame a bad name by being obscene, cense to turn what can be a fast-paced, high-skilled one of the worst offenders in the league. vulgar and disgusting this weekend. Let's go out and game into a sad joke which is vaguely reminiscent of ••• show the whole nation how much class we have." roller derby. Listen for Rick Telander of Sports Illustrated' 2. "The Notre Dame-Miami game is all hype. I'm 
I wish that NHL officials would decide to take the tonight on WVFI's Sportstalk with Vic Lombardi sick of hearing about it. The game itself doesn't initiative and literally blow the whistle on the jerks and Hugh McGowan. Telander, of course, collabo-mean anything because the media blow it all out of who ruin the end of a close game for fans. I would rated with former Irish center Steve Huffman in proportion." enjoy hockey a lot more if referees didn't ruin it for August for the steroid story which sent the Notre 3. Any of the myriad bad Hicky Watters jokes me. Dame Athletic Department into an uproar. Telander which are circulating around eampus. 
The NBA is not much better. When playoff time doubtlessly will have some interesting things to say The way things are going, though, it looks like my comes around players are allowed to attack each about the upeoming Notre Dame-Miami matchup. stomach contents arc going to be in grave danger other viciously on breakaways, drawing only per-This week has been a big one for Lombardi, the for the rest of the week. 







