
VOL. XXIII NO. 2 TUESDAY, AUGUST 28, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
No more maids for'pampered' NO students 
By JANICE O'LEARY was that out of 40 colleges and too much overtime previously, Woods said that this may be "In concept, I think it's a Associate News Editor universities polled, no other which was an indicator of poor a potential problem, but that great idea," he said. 
school had any form of per­management. He said that for the students are being asked to "There could be a loss of so­
sonal cleaning services, said the majority, the pay raise increase their responsibility for cializing for the maids, and 
Many students thought the Woods. The schools polled in­given to 60 percent of the em­the cleanliness of their own some fun may be taken out of 
housekeepers left behind their cluded Ivy Leagues, Catholic ployees and the change from a rooms. their jobs, but I'd be surprised 
cleaning supplies when they colleges, Big Ten schools, and 30 hour work-week to a 40 He said that it is "natural for if the work load had increased," 
found a bottle of pink liquid, a colleges in the Indiana and Ohio hour work-week for most some resistance to change." said Newton. bottle of blue liquid and one area. should more than compensate and that everyone should "give Sister Mary Louise Gude, rec­sponge in their dorm rooms Although Woods feels this is for any overtime. it a chance." tress of Farley Hall, was also Sunday. a positive change, many'maids However, he also added that "Beth," another housekeeper positive about the changes. 
However, as they soon found and students feel otherwise. less than a dozen employees out said that the changes would in­"I think it's a good idea. It 
out, the maid service at the "Mary," who asked to remairi of 350 would be affected by the crease the responsibility of the will maximize the use of house­
University of Notre Dame has anonymous to protect her posi­cutback of overtime hours, and maids who are left in the keeping personnel," she said. been discontinued, with the ex­tion at Notre Dame, now a that the University wage scale dorms. Father George Rozum, rector ception of trash removal. "general housekeeper," ex­is above the average of most "It is only a change in re­of Alumni Hall, said, "It's too 
According to David Woods, pressed concern about the colleges in the area. sponsibility, not an overload," early to tell." director of support services, change in hours and cutbacks "Joan," another housekeeper said Woods. "There is no more Carla Garcia, a junior, said the changes were implemented in overtime. She said that some now on a specialty crew, said shower cleaning (for maids in "It took a fire to take away due to a lack of efficiency in the of the staff depended on that that the common rooms will be the dorms) and this will reduce laundry from guys, and only management and distribution extra $2,000 a year in overtime cleaner, but not the dorm (their) responsibility." two days to take away maids. I of the cleaning staff. pay which they no longer re­rooms which might lead to a Father Steve Newton, rector think it is unfair that they 
Another reason for the dis­ceive. greater problem with ants, of Sorin Hall, responded favor­charge us more (tuition and continuance of maid servir.e Woods said that there was mice and roaches. ably to the changes. 
C~mplaints: Dial FRED 
By MONICA Y ANT due to the assistance of Assistant News Editor William Sexton, vice president of University Relations. 
In what is often a rarity in The goal of the lecture series politics, Student Body President is, according to Pasin, "to Rob Pasin says he and Vice spark discussion and debate President Fred Tombar willful­about important issues of the fill their campaign promise of a day." corporate-sponsored lecture Pasin also revealed "new and series for the 1990-91 school improved communication be­year. tween student government and 
The lecture series will include the student body" as another of 
prominent national figures, in­his and student government's 
cluding: plans for the year. 
•William 
Webster. director of A phone line to be dubbed the CIA; "the FRED line" after Tombar 

• 
Leslie Stahl, CBS White will serve as a sounding board 


,
House correspondent; for student suggestions, Pasin 
•Bruce 
Babbitt. former gov­said. Students who dial F-R-E­I ernor of Arizona and Student D will be able to leave a mes­Body President at Notre Dame sage about their complaints, in 1960; concerns, or general campus 

•Father 
Daniel Berrigan, issue that student government political activist; -should be aware of, he said. 

•Jack 
Kemp. secretary of Pasin said that the phone 


The Observer/Kevin Weise

HUD. line, as well as a student gov­"We are very happy about ernment newsletter to be sent 
Freshman patience

fulfilling our campaign promise to all students and an open fo­
of a lecture series," Pasin said. rum in each dorm with him and 
Notre Dame freshmen waited to register for class yesterday at the Joyce ACC, undoubtedly anxious to 
get out of line and into the classroom. Classes begin at 8 a.m. today for returning Notre Dame students. 

corporate funding was largely see FRED I page 11 He explained that finding the 


$60 million put into Notre Dame's fall contruction work 
said Don Dedrick, director of deteriorating. A new carillon is

By JANICE O'LEARY 
Physical Plant. a further addition, he said.
Associate News Editor 
The Theodore Hesburgh Cen­"Utilities have been installed ter for International Studies for the new Fischer Graduate Bulldozers, cement trucks will also be a part of the new Housing Complex, located and jackhammers can be both quad. Three buildings will north of the O'Hara-Grace seen and heard on campus this house the Institute for Interna­Graduate Residences. The de­fall as more than $60 million in tional Peace Studies and the velopment, which will include a construction is being done at Kellogg Institute for Interna­community center and 200 two­Notre Dame. tional Studies, at a cost of bedroom apartments. will cost The DeBartolo quad was $10.3 million, Conklin said. about $12 million. Alumnus started last spring, however Two other buildings are in Charles Fischer. a member of nothing has been completed. the planning stage, according the Advisory Council for the 
The foundation and footings to Dedrick. They include the College of Engineering, is the for the Edward DeBartolo College of Business Administra­principal donor," Conklin said. Classroom Facility, the most tion and the Marie DeBartolo Juniper Road has been expensive building to be con­Performing Arts center. repaved, and sidewalks and structed by the University, have The DeBartolo Classroom curbs have been built. The road been begun west of the sta­Facility is scheduled to be fin­was closed between Douglas dium. according to Richard ished in the summer of 1992, and Dorr Roads over the sum­Conklin, director of Public Rela­and the Hesburgh Center is mer, but is now open. It will tions and Information. scheduled for completion by close again next summer be­
The building will include more Jan. 1, 1991, said Conklin. tween Dorr Road and Edison than 30 tiered seating class­Extensive restoration on Sa­Avenue as road work resumes. rooms, 20 seminar rooms, 30 cred Heart church has been Construction on sidewalks, lecture halls, and a 450-seat completed. The repairs took a crossing points and landscap­auditorium. It is one of four total of six years and some of ing may continue to mid­buildings planned for the quad the stained glass windows are September. and is supported by a $33 mil­not quite finished, said Dedrick. Bad drainage was one of the lion gift from alumnus Edward New pews, a new slate roof, reasons for the repairs, said DeBartolo, said Conklin. insulation and air-conditioning Dedrick. The road was often 
The only work that is com­were added. Murals were also treated as a-country road and pleted on the quad is the under­restored and humidity and people would speed as a result, ground facilities such as tele­temperature controls were in­
phone and computer wiring, stalled to prevent them from see CONSTRUCTION I page 6 


page 2 The Observer Tuesday, August28, 1990 
i 
I 
[ 
I 
L 
INSIDE COLUMN 



So, you're having roomie problems... 
So you're new here and you're having roommate problems. You are in hell and you figure it couldn't possibly get worse. Well, you could be living with a 300 pound strapping red-John O'Brien neck buck named "Bubba" who has Managing Editor suggested that you share a bunk and insists on calling you "Moondoggie." If that is the case, tell that bum he owes me money! 

Anyway, everybody and their brother has been writing these "Okay-I'm-Cool-So-Lis­ten-To-My-Advice" columns. While they were far from experts on their chosen topics, I know plenty about roommates, due to my stay at the Joliet Correctional Center in Illinois. Four years of hard time for 
WEATHER Forecast for noon, Tuesday, August 27. 
Lines show high temperatures. 

Pressure 
® CD ~ ~ m EZ3 0 X
' 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Forecast: Hot and humid today with a 40 percent chance of a thunderstorm. The high temperature today will be around 90. Tonight's low in the mid 60s. Tomorrow will be cooler and less humid, mostly sunny with the high temperature in the low 80s. 
stealing a water buffalo. I was framed. 
But getting back to my point, there are a few things to keep in mind in order to make your roomie experience survivable. 
First. be tactful. If you tend to get un­nerved when your roommate walks around the room in his (or her) Garfield undies, singing the theme song from "Baywatch," you should kindly ask him to get a clue. You should most certainly not club him like a baby seal. Your rector might get mad. 
Second, skillful negotiations are needed when it comes to decorating the room. You might think your honor roll certificates and New Kids posters are really neat, but your roomie might be partial to Guns N Roses and velvet Elvis portraits. My suggestion would be to forget all your stuff and buy your decorations from ME! That's right. I will make your room look really cool for cheap. And I have this really weird lava lamp. Wholesale, even. 
As for tunes, it is necessary to be tactful once again. Jamming to "Freedom Rock" might have been big in your neighborhood, but your roommate might be a big 2 Live Crew junkie. I, however, can supply you with enough tunes to rock your section to the ground. My collection of Tom Jones classics is enough to turn any party into an all-out love fest. My Ethel Merman disks are also crowd pleasers. Once again, they're cheap. 
A roommate's interaction with members of the opposite sex can also cause tension. Do you get angry when your roommate's HTH comes in for a weekend and the two of them disappear into the loft with enough food and provisions to last for a week? My advice to you is to quit whining and stop lis­tening through the bedroom door! That's just sick. P.S. -try and get the chick's phone number. I, urn, think she needs coun­seling. 
Now, I know that I didn't cover sources of roommate tension, but you should be able to at least start working toward a better relationship. If things don't work out, maybe you can live with me next year. I'm having this problem with my roommates ... 
--Ih-e-Obse.-.. ~lier-­
--a.~•~ 
OF INTEREST 

The Royal Lichtenstein Quarter Ring Circus Both North and South Dining Halls will 
will be performing at the Fieldhouse Mall today from be closed for dinner tonight. A welcome back picnic will noon to 1 p.m. The circus is sponsored by the Center for be held on Stepan Field from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30p.m. Social Concerns, Campus Ministry and Student Government. 
CAMPUS 
Kate Halischak, academic ad­

The University of Notre Dame has received visor and executive officer of the Gen­a bequest of more than $360,000 from the estate of der Studies Program, has been ap­Charles Leo Eaton of Bloomington, Ill., to establish a pointed special assistant to the execu­scholarship fund in his name. Eaton scholarships will be · tive vice president and director of aca­awarded to students based on demonstrated financial demic advising for varsity athletics by need and typically will provide $1,500 per year in fmancial Father William Beauchamp, executive assistance. The University is one of six institutions, along vice president of the University of with Bradley University, Illinois State University, Illinois Notre Dame. Halischak's responsibili­Wesleyan University, Saint Mary's College and the Uni­ties will include overseeing the daily versity of Illinois, to share equally in the estate of Charles operation of the office which monitors the academic Eaton, who died in 1984. The bequest comes as Notre progress of student athletes, attending to matters of Dame initiates a major effort to increase scholarship compliance of NCAA rules regarding academics. and as­funding with the ultimate objective of meeting the full sisting the executive vice president in matters related to demonstrated financial need of all students. As part of athletics. this effort, the University will seek to raise $100 million in new fmancial aid endowment during the next ten years. 

John Malone, professor emeritus of marketing at the University of Notre Dame, has been given the JohnFather James Rigert, associate professor of Cardinal O'Hara Award by the University's alumni associ­
earth sciences at the University of Notre Dame, has been ation. The award, named for a Holy Cross priest and named chairman of the Department of Earth Sciences, former president of the University, is conferred on a according to Francis Castellino, dean of the College of former Notre Dame employee and alumnus or alumna Science and Kleiderer-Pezold professor of biochemistry. who has exhibited outstanding service to the University.
Rigert obtained his doctorate in physics from the Univer­It is not necessarily given annually. Malone graduatedsity of Illinois in 1972 and a second doctorate in geo­with honors from what was then the College of Commerce physics from Texas A & M in 1979. His specialty is math in Notre Dame's Centennial Class of 1942. He later re­and physics applications in geology, in such courses as ceived his master's degree in business administration geostatistics, structural geology and geophysics. His re­from Harvard and his doctorate from the University of search includes work at the Naval Research Lab and s~rv­Chicago. After working in the private sector, Malone be­ing as a visiting scientist at the Los Alamos National Lab­came an assistant professor at Notre Dame in 1952. oratory. Rigert graduated from the University of Port­land, where he was valedictorian of his class. He holds a master's degree in solid state physics from Cornell Uni­versity in 1960. 
MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC INDIANA 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff: 
NewsProduction 
Graphics Joe Moody usa Eaton Mike Muldoon PeteYobJoe Zandrozny 
Circulation 
Acoent
VieWpOint 
Kathleen O'Conner 
Robyn Simmons Michelle Dall 
John O'Brian Alison Cocks 
Ad DesignSystemS 
Amy Eckert Bernard Brenninkmeyer Gil Gomez 
Sports 
Scott Brutacao Ken Tysiac 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
1990 

NYSE Index 194.90 if 5.13 S&P Composite ,t;.. _ 355.00 1S 9 93 Dow Jones Industrials 2,611.63 .. 78.71 
Precious Metals Gold +$26.8 to $391.30/ oz. 
Sliver+ 34.2¢ to $4.853 I oz. 

On August 28: 
e In 1910: Russia declares Mon­
tenegro an independent kingdom un­der Nicholas II. e In 1926: U.S. Marines land in Nicaragua to protect nations and fight Sandino rebels. e In 1941 : FOR creates a seven member Supply Priorities and Alloca­tions Board to speed arms to Allies. e In 1970: Palistinian National Council rejects U.S. Peace Plan for Mideast. e In 1982: In Spain, Greenpeace boats block the dumping of atomic 
waste. 

.The Department of Communica­tion and Theatre has received a grant from Arts Midwest in support of its presentation of a world premier by Theatre Grottesco next year. Theatre Grottesco, a theatrical company from Detroit, was founded in Paris in 1983 and takes its name from an Italian word meaning fantastic, ridicu­lous, absurd, or comic. It will appear at Notre Dame's Washington Hall February 27-March 3, presenting the first performance of a play which the company has surrounded with secrecy, but which is believed by Thomas Barkes, manager of Washington Hall, to be "a modern, melodramatic love story." Arts Midwest is a regional arts or­ganization whose programs support the arts, artists and cultural development in the Midwest. 
Tuesday, August 28, 1990 
The Observer page 3 



ND/SMC communtity suffers tragic losses 
Russo suffers fatal injuries 



1990 ND graduate dies from heart attack 
Mary's Catholic Church in HeB­
By KELLEY TUTHILL 

ert's home town of Waukesha,
News Editor 

Wisconsin. Father Thomas 
Gaughan, associate rector of 
Jeffrey Heilert, a 1990 grad­Sacred Heart Church and assis­uate of Notre Dame, died in his tant rector of Sorin Hall, sleep early in the morning on presided over the funeral mass. Friday, August 3 of a heart at­Kempinger described Heilert 
tack. as "the brother I never had." 
Heilert, who would turn 23 The two were assigned to the today, graduated from the Col­same room freshman year and lege of Business with a Finance got along so well they lived to­major. He was a resident of Ca­gether for all four years. 
vanaugh Hall. Heilert loved athletics, 
His roommate of four years, Kempinger said. He was very Stephen Kempinger, said that involved in Bookstore Basket­Heilert had a heart condition ball and served as one of the caused by a congenital defect. commissioners during his ju-However, Heilert was not on 
see HEILERT I page 8
any medications nor was he 

Saint Mary's student dies in auto accident 
By RENEE YOUNG t?-ry education o~ commu~ica-
NewsWriter twns as her maJOr, but she 
knew that she wanted to live in 
Indiana-she was a definite 
The Saint Mary's Community 
Hoosier." 
suffered the loss of fellow Symonds was from Ander­
classmate Regina Symonds on sonville, Indiana where her 
August 16 who was killed in an parents and younger brother 
auto accident on her way home reside. This past summer Sy­
from South Carolina. monds worked at a local bank. Reports say that Symonds, Along with her studies, Sy­
19, fell asleep behind the wheel, monds was planning on being 
woke up before impact, then confirmed this year. Symonds 
tried to gain control of the au­was also a strong swim team 
tomobile but failed. The car fell member. into a deep ravine. Symonds In honor of her spirit and en­
Regina Symonds

was vacationing with friends. thusiasm there will be an an­
As it was late and the road Services were held for Sy­nual swim team award to 
deserted, the accident was not monds in Andersonville on honor those women "who ex­
discovered until approximately Monday, August 20th. emplify the characteristics of 
an hour and a half later. Symonds would have been re­Reggie," such as determination 
Regina died on impact while turning to Saint Mary's as a and team spirit, said swim 
two others. who were broth­sophomore. The students who team member Jennifer Danahy. 
ers, died hours later. The were supposed to be her "Reggie believed that it didn't 
fourth passenger remains in roommates this year said she 
see SYMONDS I page 14
critical condition. was considering either elemen-

By CATHERINE KANE 
News Writer 
On Monday, June 4, Michael Peter Russo, a sophomore-to­be at Notre Dame, died as are­sult of injuries sustained in a single vehicle automobile acci­dent three weeks earlier. 
Russo, 19, had just returned from Notre Dame to his home in St. Louis. Mo. the night of the accident. He had travelled in tandem with his father in one car and his roommate Lance Cochran, who was going to visit for several days, in the other car. 
After spending about 15 min­utes at home unpacking the car, Russo was eager to show Cochran the local custard diner. 
On the way back, the vehicle, driven by Russo, skidded going around a curve and flipped over. Russo sustained massive internal injuries. Cochran, in the passenger seat, was un­harmed. 
Only a miracle would have saved him, according to Brother Michael Smith, rector of Flanner Hall, where Russo resided at Notre Dame. 
"A lot of people liked Michael," said Smith. "He was a super nice guy." He was very outgoing and friendly, and he liked to have a good time. 
Russo was going to enter the 
college of Business Administra­
tion to study Management and 
Finance. 
He was interested in hockey, 
all sports, sketching, and mu-
Michael Peter Russo 
sic. He was a member of the hockey team at Notre Dame. 
Ric. Schafer, the hockey coach, said of Russo, "as a goal tender, he was pretty good, but as a person, he was tremen­dous." According to Schafer, he was the kind of person who leaves one "searching for su­perlatives to describe him." 
Russo is survived by his par­
ents, Peter and Nella, and a sis­
ter, Mary Lynn. 
A late admission from the 
waiting list, "he was thrilled to 
be at Notre Dame," said 
Schafer. 
"I daresay there wasn't a day 
(that went by) that he didn't 
exude enthusiasm about being 
at Notre Dame," Schafer said. 
Russo's parents may come to 
Notre Dame later in the year 
accompanied by Cochran's par­
ents, and at that time a memo­
rial mass may be scheduled, ac­
cording to Smith. 
Schafer said, "his memory will last a long time with us." 

STORE HRS. MON.-SAT.
PRICES GOOD 
9 A.M.-9 P.M. SUN., 'TIL 6 P.M.


BIG LOTS@
8/28-9/1 

QUANTITY RIGHTS RESERVED 

New Closeout Bargains Every Week 
Con air nswering Machi 
•r~m::·g(( 
*beeperless -----.. 
*voice activated 
*message retrieval 
18" 2 Drawer File Cabinet 
$19.99 
I 

PRICES AND fTEMS GOOD ONL'I AT: 
~924 Lincolnway West 
Rest 'n bed corduroy pillow 
$9.99 
compare to $14.99 
Panasonic Alkaline Batteries 
¥ 

C & D 2pk AA 4pk your choice 
$.99 
Spartus

compare to $1.69 
-----Mobilite Desk Lamp Tucker Plastics 
$.79
$5.00 

compare to $1.29 
Storage Crates 
$1.99 


Capri Family Shampoo 30 oz.
•l 
''h..~ 

$.99
Maybelline compare to $1.99
assorted cosmetics 

,1\'f PRICING BAS!O 0~ SAU! OR SIUIUR IT! US SOLD ELS!WH!R! IN UARkET ARE A II!()() NOT A((!Pl WfR ~ CO\JPON5 
r 


Tuesday, August28, 1990 
The Observer page·5 
University establishes a new advisory council 
Special to The Observer 
A new advisory council has been created by the University of Notre Dame, according to Fath~ Edward Malloy, Univer­sity president, joining eight other advisory councils, all or­ganized since 1946. 
The purpose of the Advisory Council for Graduate Studies and Research, said Malloy, will be to continue the momentum of graduate education and re­search, clarify strategies, and communicate to those outside the Notre Dame family the im­portance of its endeavors. 
"We are interested in making quality the hallmark of our ef­forts in graduate education and research and in creating a eli­mate that will link outstanding teaching to graduate programs and research endeavors of sterling quality," said Nathan Hatch, vice president of gradu­ate studies and research and dean of the Graduate School. "As a national Catholic re­search university, we have an important niche to fill between that of a liberal arts college and that of a comprehensive research university." 
The creation of this council symbolizes the University's goal of making Notre Dame as strong on the graduate level as it is on the undergraduate, Hatch said. "The University is convinced that a small but su­perb graduate school, well-fo-. cused in its mission, can en­hance Notre Dame's traditional 
SUBWAY DELIVERS TO YOU 

Call 277-7744 

Subway is delivering to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses during the following times: 
5 p.m.-12 Midnight every day of the week. 



~:1 1 J;l!}li~ 
State Road 23 and Ironwood 


BURNS PARTY 
distinctives--first-rate aca­demic training in an environ­ment that takes people seri­ously and addresses questions of value and meaning." 
Notre Dame currently has nearly 1,200 graduate students enrolled in 23 doctoral and 35 master's programs. About 60 percent of these students are enrolled in humanities and so­cial sciences, 20 percent in science and 20 percent in engi­neering. 
The research division of the graduate school receives about $18 million annually from pub­lic and private sources to sup­port projects of Notre Dame faculty. 
The new council is the Uni­versity's ninth advisory council and the first organized since 1980, when the advisory council for the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry was cre­ated. Other Notre Dame advi­sory councils include those for the College of Arts and Letters, the College of Science, the Col­lege of Engineering, the College of Business Administration, the Notre Dame Law School, the University Libraries, and the Snite Museum of Art. 
Advisory council members are appointed by the president, with membership typically ranging from 20 to 50 men and women. Members are appointed for three-year terms, which can be renewed. 
Advisory councils at Notre Dame do not determine aca­demic policy but draw on the expertise of members to advise 
Enjoy a festival of handmade gifts and country decor, potpourri and candles. Our unique co-op concept features over 70 area craftspeople as well as crafts from all over the country. ,A/ , ,. ,,
1

.-e re ,,,ed to the rafters I Q f) 259-9888 with fr~sh tdeas .. .for you' I
0tj ~~... Open Mon. · Sat. 10 -9, Sun. 1 2 -5 ~ ~ ~ 100 Center. U.S. 33, Mishawaka. IN ~ a9"#?"•~9"m9"nw.~9"~~·9"•V•~..P 
Chinese-American Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 

Lunches starting at----$3.45 ~anquet room~ Dinners starting at----$5.45 ~vailable for u~ Bar & Restaurant open 7 days
to 200 

-==~~-_. Mon.-Thu,.. 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. 272-7376 Sun. & Holidays 11 :30 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
130 Dixie Way S., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
Happy 20th Birthday! Jim Ellis 
Have a great Junior Year at Dillon 
Love, Dad, Mom & the Family 

SHOP 

the dean or director on matters 
in which he or she seeks their 
counsel. 
The council also meets pri­

vately with the president of the 
University. Through these ses­
sions and informally members 
of the council communicate 
with him concerning matters 
specific to the academic com­
ponent and its development. 
Members of this newly estab­

lished advisory council of 
Graduate Studies and Research 
have been announced by Father 
Malloy. 
They are J. Paul Bolduc, vice 

chairman of W. R. Grace & Co., 
New York City; Gudrun Risse; 
Michael Browning, president of 
Browning Investments Inc., 
see ADVISE I page 12 

ND/SMC relations discussed 
By KELLEY TUTHILL News Editor 
Saint Mary's student govern­

ment is committed to improv­
ing relations between Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's stu­
dents during the 1990-91 aca­
demic year. 
Maggie Belin, vice president 

of academic affairs and college 
relations, said that the leaders 
of the student government also 
hope to sponsor "more major 
events" on campus, such as 
bringing bands to Saint Mary's. 
In addition, Belin said that 

student government is trying to 
build a feeling of community on 
the campus. "We are promot­
ing Saint Mary's as a woman's 
college." 
Student government is also 

working on showing a "major 
movie" on the campus. 
The first Board of Gover­

nance meeting is Wednesday, 
September 5 at 6 p.m. in Room 
306 of Haggar College Center. 
To learn more about student 

government and other campus 
clubs and organizations, 
students are encouraged to at­
tend Activities Night on 
September 6. 
Students are also welcome to stop by student government of­fices located on the third floor of Haggar College Center. Of­fice hours are Monday and Tuesday, 2 to 4 p.m. and Thursday, 4 to 6 p.m. 
Washington Hall 
University of Notre Dame 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5956 
FUNDRAISING 


RENTAL 
Washington Hall Job Openings

EQUIPMENT 
We have a large assortment of equipment to suit every 
fundraising need: 
• 
Cotton Candy Machines 

• 
Hot Doggers 

• 
Popcorn Machines •Griddles 

• 
Pop Coolers 

• 
Deep Fryers 


Two student employment positions are open.  
• Snow Cone Machines  
• Barbeque Grills  • Student workers at Washington Hall work  
• Roasters  10 hours per week, evenings and weekends.  
• Assorted/Logo Balloons •Dunk Tank  • Technical Theatre experience is a plus.  
• Souvenir (T-shirts, etc)  • Knowledge of Macintosh computer and  

programs: Word, PFS:File, FileMaker II, *Choice of FREE DELIVERY or 10% discount Excel, and PageMaker a plus. 
Burns Party Shop 832 W. Mishawaka Ave. (Corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) 
Interested students should contact Tom Barkes at Washington Hall or call239·5956. 
259-4807 259-2833 
~ ~---~--~-------~ ~ 
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, August 28, 1990 
Tanner to occupy newly created faculty position 
Tanner's appointment. ef­
Special to The Observer one of the most outstanding for Standards and Technology graduate of the University of fective for the 1990-91 aca­young physicists in the country­(formerly the National Bureau Illinois at Urbana, she received demic year. makes her one of -exactly the kind of candidate of Standards) for the past 2-her master's and doctoral de­
The first Clare Boothe Luce the University's first two the Clare Boothe Luce Fund 1/2 years. Her research in laser grees from the University of 
junior faculty position at Notre "named" assistant professors. wishes to encourage. Dr. Tan­spectroscopy has implications California at Berkeley, where Dame will be occupied by Carol The other is Veronica Blasquez, ner's presence will greatly for theories of elementary par­she also was a head teachingTanner, who will join the Uni­assistant professor of biochem­strengthen what we believe to ticles, cooling atoms in laser assistant and a graduate re­versity's faculty as assistant istry, whose appointment to the be one of the finest small beams, perhaps the most dra­search assistant. professor of physics. Galla Assistant Professorship atomic physics groups in the matic and promising develop­
The position will be under­also is effective for the upcom­world." ments in laser science in the Notre Dame is one of 14
written by the Clare Boothe ing year. Tanner will join Notre 1980s. 
colleges and universities namedLuce Fund, established by a be­In announcing the appoint­Dame's faculty after holding a by Mrs. Luce, who died in 1987. 
quest of the late Mrs. Luce to ment, Provost Timothy O'Meara prestigious National Research She was a research associate to participate in the $70-million 
support women in the sciences said, "In Carol Tanner the Col­Council Postdoctoral Fellow­at JILA-University of Colorado fund, which is administered byand engineering. lege of Science has attracted ship at the National Institute from 1985-88. An honors the Henry Luce Foundation. 
Construct 
continued from page 1 
he said. He hopes that the con­struction will change that. 
The new home of the Army. Navy, Marine and Air Force ROTC detachments will be the Pasquerilla Center. It was com­pleted last spring and its dedi­cation is scheduled for this fall. Notre Dame Trustee Frank Pasquerilla underwrote the project, the largest privately fi­nanced ROTC building in the country, according to Conklin. 
The old ROTC building will 
now house University Security, 
the risk management office and 
the Environmental Health De­
partment. The building has 
been repainted and also con­
tains classrooms and a "24­
hour computer cluster," said 
Dedrick. 
Koons Rehearsal Hall. on the east side of campus, was also completed in the spring and is currently occupied by the Notre Dame Marching Band, the con­cert band, three smaller varsity bands. two jazz bands and woodwind, brass and other ensemble bands. A sheet music library, offices and storage ar­eas are located in th'e building also, Conklin said. 
A new support services build­ing, located north of the Notre Dame Credit Union, was sched­uled for completion Aug. 17. It will house custodial services, and grounds and general main­tenance. 
Holy Cross Hall and St. Michael's Laundry were demol­ished this summer. A new laun­dry facility is being constructed near the credit union and sup­port services building and a parking lot will be built where the old laundry previously ex­isted, said Dedrick. 
"Dormitory renewal work centered on Dillon Hall this summer with new plumbing lines and fixtures installed and rooms and halls painted," said Conklin. 


'IFJMPoRTED 
&DOME~TI~ ~HEE:;es 
IIDELI MEATS' & PATES 
•TERRIFtc:.. 
'PARTY PLA..TiER$ FoR SUM'MER!" NEW!. 
WEEKEND 'HOuR'S: SAT.I0·5·SUN.I27" 5 
MARKET MARIGOLD 


is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editors/Copy Editors 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Monday, Sept. 3 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 

This semester, take someelectives 



in communications. 
Photographers Meeting Tuesday 8:00 p.m. Important first meeting-new photographers welcomed. 
IntroducingAT&r StudentSaver Plus. 
This year it'll be easier to get through college. Because AJ&T has put 
together a program of products and services that can 
you money. 'f~!lltffiCP.rl
Whether I you live on or off campus. 
You don't need to wait till spring to getabreak. 
With the /fKiiReach Out' America Plan", you'll get savings 24 hours a clay, 7 days a week. Including 25% off our already low evening prices':" 

Keepyour roommates in line. 
We'll separate your long distance calls from your roommates' calls with /fKi[Call Manager: And we'll do it for free. 
• This service may not be available In resklence halls on your campus. 
-Disoount applies to out-of-stm calls direct~dialed 5-10 pm, Sunday-Friday. @1990AT5f 
60 minutes of long distance. Forfree. Movies. Videos. And more. For less. 
just by choosing any Stu~ dent Saver Plus program, you'll get up to 60 minutes of free long distance calls. You'll also 

\ get a free coupon booklet good for savings all around town. 
Call from anywhere to anywhere. 
We'll give you a 

free AI&T Calling Card, even if you don't have a phone. So you'll be able to make a call from almost any phone and have it billed to you, wherever you live. 
To enroll in the AT&T Stu­dent Saver Plus programs that are right for you, or to get the best value in long distance ser­vice, call us. They just might be the most profitable electives you'll ever take. 
1800 654-0471 Ext.1230 
AI&[ Helping make college life alittle easier. 

ATs.T 
The right choice. 


Tuesday, August 28, 1990 
The Observer page 7 

The Observer/File Photo 
Ready and waiting 
The Hesburgh Library will soon see a surge in activity as students return to use its resources. The library offers access to books, computing facilities as well as other sources of information. 
Nine ND faculty reach emeritus 
Special to The Observer 
Nine members of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame faculty have been advanced to emeritus rank, and promotions have been announced for 42 others. Twenty-three people were honored for 25 years of service. 
The new faculty emeriti are Salvatore Bella, Jones profes­sor of management; William Eagan, associate professor of management; Robert Gordon, professor of biological sciences; Emil Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies and professor of chemistry and biochemistry; Jean LaPorte, as­sociate professor of theology; Father George Minamiki, asso­ciate professor of classical and oriental languages and litera­tures; George Sereiko, librar­ian; Robert Vasoli, associate professor 0f sociology; and Paul Weinstein, professor of biological studies. 
Advanced to the rank of pro­fessor from associate professor were Gerald Arnold, physics; Samir Bose, physics; Paul Bradshaw, theology; Robert Burns, history; Francis Con­nolly, mathematics; Michael Detlefsen, philosophy; Amitava Dutt, economics; Sonia Gernes. English; Thomas Jemielity, English; William Kremer, art, 

r------------------------------------------------------------~ 
CARPET REMHAHT SALE 
25°/o off with this coupon Mon. thru Sat. N 




T 

G)
10:00 to 5:30 

KA AVE. 

r-~--~~-.--~~~~­
m 
JJ 
!='
Mill Outlet 
art history and design; and Pa­tricia O'Hara, law. 
Associate professors receiv­ing tenure were Thomas Cosi­mano, finance and business economics; Barbara Fick, law; Father Michael Himes, theol­ogy; Walter Pratt Jr., law; and Richard Sheehan, finance and business economics. 
New associate professors, promoted from assistant pro­fessors, are Ravi Singh Achrol, marketing; Father Nicholas Ayo, program of liberal studies; Supriyo Bandyopadhyay, elec­trical and computer engineer­ing; Roger Brooks, theology; Michael Brownstein, classical and oriental languages and lit­eratures; Michael Chetcutti, chemistry and biochemistry; James Collins, communication and theatre; and Stephen Fal­lon, program of liberal studies. 
Also, Luis Fraga, government and international studies; Theresa Krier, English; Louis MacKenzie Jr., romance lan­guages and literatures; Khalil Matta, management; Francesca Rochberg-Halton, history; David Ruccio, economics; Stephen Silliman, civil engi­neering; Billie Spencer Jr., civil engineering; John Stamper, ar­chitecture; Stephan Stolz, mathematics; Chris Vanden Bossche, English; Michael Wi­escher, physics; and Albert Wimmer, German and Russian languages and literatures. 
Other promotions include: Janis Johnston of the law li­brary to librarian, William Meyer Jr. of physical education to assistant professional spe­cialist, Sandra VanSlager of physical education to associate professional specialist, and Montey Holloway of the De-
and F. 
Ellen Weaver of the Department of Theology to professional specialist. 
Honored for 25 years of ser­
vice were Nripendra Biswas, 
professor of physics; Mario 
Borelli, associate professor of 
mathematics; Raymond Brach, 
associate professor of 
aerospace and mechanical 
engineering; Neal M. Cason, 
professor of physics; Bernard 
Doering, associate professor of 
romance languages and litera­
tures; Harald Esch, associate 
professor of biological 
sciences; Father James Flani­
gan, associate professor of art, 
art history and design; 
Josephine Massyngbaerde 
Ford, professor of theology; 
Garabet Gabriel, associate pro­
fessor of electrical engineering; 
Abraham Goetz, associate pro­
fessor of mathematics: and 
John Lucey, associate professor 
of aerospace and mechanical 
engineering. 
Also, Eugene Marshalek, pro­fessor of physics; William McGlinn, professor of physics; Father James McGrath, associ­ate professor of biological sciences; Thomas Mueller, Roth-Gibson professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering; Victor Nee, pro­fessor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering; James Phillips, assistant professor of music; Irwin Press, professor of anthropology; Paul Rath­burn, associate professor of English; Michael Sain, Freimann professor of electri­cal and computer engineering; John Santos, professor of psy­chology; Adolph Soens Jr., as­sociate professor of English; and Thomas Swartz, professor of economir.s. 
C4RPET &TILE DEPOT 

402 South Ironwood * Mishawaka, IN 46544 * 259-5630 
~uu 

K SUBARU. 

~ ® 0
L------------------------------------------------------------­
CUSTOM VANS BUICK MI!IIIC(OU at: HZ 
a HUGE selection of used cars



TIEPIICE 
Contact your on campus representative Joe Magyar 154 Cavanaugh 283-1402

IFSUIS 
!Vo~M ~a,m,e e[H'II,I1n4U1~~ 
and<J~ 
~~Ina~ and~ 
~ 'W~, Auyud:1.9 a.t 7:00P.M. a.t 'W~ JlaJL. 
r-------r-------T-------,-------1 
~~~~in~ina
I sse I Sl.99 I Sl.99 I S2.99 I 
I ~thny Halhf·Sub f 1 Two Rax Roast I Grilled Chicken I Lunch I 
tkabJe ~in a+uf ~diwuid
I w1 pure ase o 1f I I I
8 8
I 20 C k I ee I reast I or I 
aiiewl.
1 th ozs. fto De _ork 1 Sandwiches 1 Sandwich Dinner Bar 
1

1o er . o nn 1 . . 1 1 
1 Ltmlt 2 I Ltmit 2 Limit 2 ! Limit 2 I 
~~~~Ute (J~~ol
f~~~~~~~:~;~~~· 3o. 199oIott;;_~~~~~~~~.t. 3o. 199o ott~:.~~~-t~:a~!· 3o. 199or:.::~::_~~~-3o, 199ol CuPom.•••l>l Norvllodlll Dax I c~ ",::on..: D!lllw I1 O>Ck' "9 ~Co..pollpPO o~... at*ftt19 ~COI.IPOI\pel o~.., 
1 

1~ U/amen wdL ~tlte ~·
I ~o:.l)o;,:~ .........,,Oine< ~ (l)tnl),tl.,.:Wffl\.;~01,:. ~«A ~~!:~~""OWir:o:~:.:. IVRJ'. 1 =::.:."'...:'~~. ~ 1 
L 
R R gooc:Jalpati<•PiU•r>9 j_ Olle<Qite<good"IMif'I<<Qa:•"9 ..l OIIP•0Hef90'Jdfllp.tti•C'IMI'"II ..... O,...OQOdMPif1<~'"11 •• 1al1u•an1s Ft1oResr•~ants Ra'""'''"''""' RI•Reuaut.,..1

---------------------..l-------.J 



-~-----....---~~------------~---­
~~~ 
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, August 28, 1990 


Heilert Press publishes Garvey's writings 
Special to The Observer children, sex, abortion, televi­sion, foolishness, money, mad­ness, hospitality, sin, forgive­
"Finding Fault," a new collec­ness, power, fear, and doubt. tion of writings by Michael Whatever happened to be going Garvey, assistant director of on at that moment, in other 
public relations and informa­words." tion at the University of Notre On some of these subjects,Dame, has recently been pub­notably when he is driving from 
lished by Thomas More Press. the temple "Yuppies, flakes, In his preface, Garvey says of vegetarians, New Age geeks,
the 37 short essays in this herbal tea drinkers, sunshine book, "They are about... faith, zapoids," uninspiring homilists family, prayer, marriage, war, and vacuum-brained "OREs" 



continued from page 3 
nior year. He also served as a referee during the Bookstore tournament. Heilert was also very active in Cavanaugh Hall basketball. 
In addition, Heilert coached the Farley Hall football team of which his girlfriend, Carol El­liott was a member. He served as the coach of the Breen­Phillips basketball team. 
During his junior year, Heilert also wrote articles for the sports section of The Observer. 
Another important aspect to Heilert's life was his devotion to the homeless. During his ju­
nior and senior years at Notre Dame, he worked once a week at the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. 
Somehow Heilert also man­aged to get excellent grades and "was always on the Dean's List," said Kempinger. 
During his sophomore year, Heilert started dating Elliot. Prior to their senior year, the two got engaged and planned to marry after graduation. Kempinger said that they were hoping to get married at Christmastime or next summer. 
At the time of his death Heil­ert was living in Stamford, Connecticut. He had just started a new job at IBM. "He was really excited about his 
job," Kempinger said. 
Although his friend's death deeply saddens Kempinger, he said that Heilert's grandmother made a comment that gave him comfort. "She said that his life was complete. He was happy, he had achieved his goals; he had graduated from Notre Dame, gotten a job at IBM and found someone he loved. Things were set. He was ready to meet the Lord." 
While at Notre Dame, Heilert underwent a sort of spiritual journey. During his freshman year, Kempinger said he was somewhat wild; sophomore year he starting attending mass at a local Methodist Church. However, during his junior year, after attending mass at Farley Hall with his girlfriend, he decided to convert to Catholicism. 
With Elliot and Kempinger serving as sponsors, Heilert re­ceived the sacrament of Holy Communion and was confirmed by Gaughan. 
"He had a great love for life," said Gaughan. "He had a quiet presence and a friendly smile." His gentle demeanor served as a "sincere invitation to friend­ship," he said. 
Both he and Kempinger were 
impressed by the large number 
of people who attended the fu­
neral service. The visiting hours 
lasted from 3:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
and people were literally lined 
up around the funeral home, 
Gaughan said. 
Many of Heilert's classmates 
drove miles to attend the ser­
vices. 
The Jeff Heilert Memorial Fund was set-up to benefit both Heilert's high school, Waukesha South High and Notre Dame. The money for Notre Dame will probably be used to donate something permanent in Cavanaugh Hall to preserve Heilert's memory, said Kempinger. 
Donations may be sent to Heilert's parents at 309 West­minster Drive, Waukesha, Wis­consin 53186 or given to Stephen Kempinger at 111 Ca­vanaugh Hall. 
A mass will be celebrated in Heilert's memory on Sunday, Sept. 2 at 10:30 p.m. in the chapel of Cavanaugh Hall. 

MovelOyears aheadofthe class. 


, r· 0. 0821_ l ·at rl'f ~J ·n ·T
• K·ri'Jol
P-, V 

The new HP 48SX and a free 'library card' can get you there. 
With over 2100 built-in functions, our 
new HP 48SX Scientific Expandable 
calculator takes a quantum leap into 
the 21st century. Buy an HP 48SX 
between August 15 and October 15, 1990, and HP will send you a free HP Solve Equation Library card (a 
$99.95 retail value). 
The plug-in application card alone 
contains more than 300 science and 
engineering equations, as well as 
the periodic table, a constants' library, 
and a multi-equation solver. It's like 
having a stack of reference books right 
at. your fingertips. 
The HP 48SX calculator is so advanced, 
it will change the way you solve prob­
lems forever. It integrates graphics 
with calculus, lets you enter equations the way you write them, and does 
automatic unit management. 
Check your campus bookstore or HP 
retailer for HP's range of calculators 
and special back-to-school offers. 
Then check out the calculators that 
are years ahead of their class. 
There is a better way. 
Ff/fll HEWLETT 
~~PACKARD 
("directors of religious educa­tion"), Garvey is the fault­finder of his title, gleefully lam­basting the follies of world and Church as if stupidity existed chiefly for his amusement. 
Tongue-in-cheek bluster gives way to sober meditation, how­ever, when he comments on matters such as "domesticated Christianity" that avoids en­gagement with the mysteries and demands of faith; "the de­struction of one land a half million children a year" by abortion; or El Salvador's "suffering desplezados who 

are, in Christ, flesh of our flesh, bone of our bone, Eucharist of our Eucharist." More than a third of the essays evoke the humor, the terror and the awe of child rearing (Garvey will not abide the term "parenting") deftly uncovering in the pride and pratfalls of family life re­flections of the Catholic myster­ies of incarnation. 

----------~-~--~------------~-----­
Tuesday, August28, 1990 
Amoco donates money to promote teaching 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $3,500 grant from the Amoco Foundation to initiate an annual series of awards to outstanding teachers in the University's Colleges of Business and Engineering. The University has also received the first installment of the Amoco Foundation's $25,000 commit­ment to the University's Minor­ity Engineering Program. 
"We are deeply grateful to the Amoco Foundation for these benefactions and pleased by its recognition of the significance of great teaching and of sup­port for the education of mi­
·.riangle Drafting SupplyNoTRE DAME AND sAINT MARv·s sTuDENTs 
BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS  
~  1021 North M6in Street  PLUS  
Mish 6w6k6, 1ndi 6ne 455 45  20:C DISCOUNTS WITH STUDENT ID ON MOS  
259-2459  ITEMS  

M-F BAM-5:30PM SAT 9AM-NOON 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

Business Editor 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 3 p.m. Friday, August 31 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
nority students," said Father Edward Malloy, 
The new Amoco Teaching Awards were given last month to Michael Morris, associate professor of accounting and Leonard Morse-Fortier, assis­tant professor of civil engineer­ing. 
Notre Dame's Minority Engi­neering Program was estab­lished in 198 7 and is adminis­tered by Col. John Miles, asso­ciate dean of the College of Engineering. It is intended to increase the numbers and per­centage of minority students graduating in engineering by offering a variety of supporting services. 

Unpacking in the heat 
Residents of Cavanaugh Hall (from left to right) Remond Colston, Tyler Moore and Eric Brown feel the heat as they unpack their belongings from storage in Cavanaugh Hall yesterday. Today will see more hot temperatures but tomorrow promises to offer relief as the high is expected to be only in the low 80s. 
We can't be everywhere, let us know if something newsworthy happens. Call The Observer 239-5303 

~-­
I 
I 
I
I 
I 
SCOTCH MOUNTING SQUARES 89¢ 





------r 
Welcome Back i 
SCOTCH WALLSAVER POSTER TAPE $1.95 
I 


SCOTCH REMOVABLE MOUNTING SQUARES 99¢ 
i~··············································•\
SPECIAL HOURS: 9-7 PM AUG. 28 & 29 i
• 

·~-~·~··~"~~--~-~­
~~-~---~~--· -~ 
Tuesday, August 28, 1990
The Observer
page 10 


Acareer with the nation's leading professional services firm has much more to offer than just working for the largest firm of its kind. At Ernst & Young, it meaps a lifelong opportunity to shape the big picture. Accomplish great things for our clients, who are themselves the nation's leading compa­nies. But most of all, a career with Ernst &: Young means the opportunity to do great things for yourself. 
If this is the kind of career you envision for yourself, you're probably a leader in your own right Someone with exciting ideas, superb technical skill, and a large supply of managerial and entrepre­neurial talent. In a word, someone who thinks big. 
If this description fits you, you should be talking with us. And Ernst&: Young should be talking with you.  Ernst &YoungChicago  
Well be on campus October 11, 12. Please sign  150 South Wacker Drive,  
up for an interview with your placement office.  Chicago, Illinois 60606 800.869.9899  

~-----~--~--, 
----~~--~--------------------------------­
Tuesday,August28, 1990 The Observer page 11 

Gearing up 
The sounds of the marching band could be heard around campus the last several days, reminding us all that football season is just around the corner. Next week tickets will go on sale for all home games. 


Annenberg Foundation gives ND $5 million 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a gift of $5 million from The Annenberg Founda­tion. 
Walter Annenberg, the former U.S. Ambassador to Great Britain, is providing this endowment for the University's Hesburgh Library and Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center {JACC). Income from the en­dowment will be used to main­tain the buildings, which are the two largest on campus. 
"The cost of maintaining Notre Dame's physical plant has almost trebled during the past decade, which makes this benefaction particularly timely and welcome," said Father Ed­ward Malloy, president of the University. "It will ensure the integrity, appearance and use­fulness of these two structures for many years to come." 
"Over the years," Annenberg said, "The aura of Notre Dame has been an exciting revelation to me, and I could not resist the 
• 

ALL REMNANTS 


SO%: 


r----------------------------------'1 
I Additional 1 0% off i II with College I.D. II 
I I 
~-----------------------------------~ 
Follow Douglas Road to: 
911760 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 

(219) 272-4500 
desire of having some associa­tion with this spirit of dedica­tion." The gift, he said, was the result of his admiration of the leadership of former University president Father Theodore Hesburgh, and former executive vice president Father Edmund Joyce, after whom the library and JACC are named. 
Annenberg has been a major benefactor of individual col­leges and universities as well as of the United Negro College Fund. A patron of communica­tions and the arts, he has amassed one of the world's finest collections of Impressionist and Post­Impressionist paintings. 
Annenberg's support of Notre Dame spans more than two decades since his first gifts to the University in the late 1960s. 


Grants 
continued from page 13 
administered by Gary Bernstein and Supriyo Bandyopadhyay, assistant professors of electri­cal and computer engineering. 
•$5,000 
from the McGee Foundation for the McGee fel­lowship program in economics, administered by Nathan Hatch, vice president for advanced studies. 

•$1,500 
from the National Institutes of Health for a mi­nority high school student re­search apprentice program, administered by Borelli. 


Awards for service programs totaled $36,709, including: 
•$30,000 
from the St. Joseph County Health Department for the St. Joseph County vector surveillance program, adminis­tered by George Craig, Clark professor of biological sciences. 

•$6,709 
from private bene­factors for various programs of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 


Awards for other programs totaled $59,193, including: 
•$48,000 
from the U. S. Department of Education for the Patricia Roberts Harris fel­lowship program, administered by Frederick Wright, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters and director of the black studies program. 

•$10,693 
from the St. Joseph County Job Training Program for a summer youth employ­ment program, administered by Warren Outlaw, assistant pro­


fessional specialist in urban studies and director of the tal­ent search program, and Roland Smith. 
•$500 from the American Council of a Learned Society for the International Society for the Study of European Ideas, administered by Walter NicGorski, associate professor in the program of liberal stud­ies. 

Fred 
continued from page 1 
Tombar will be, "an opportu­nity for us to be accountable for what we promised." 
Student government also plans to institute a formal complaint procedure in the res­idence halls. Pasin said stu­dents can fill out a complaint form and drop it in campus mail. Students will be able to voice complaints ranging from sexual harassment to campus improvements. 
He also said that the im­proved methods of communica­tion will make student govern­ment more visible to the stu­dent body. 

----~-­
ilie u~~~eypamperedilier~~~~--------~~~~------~~~~-~~ students. We are 20 years old and should be able to take care of ourselves," he said. 
"Obviously I don't like it, and 



Welcome Back Notre Dame & St. Mary's Students 
I am disappointed to lose it," said Lou DelFra, "But I think I 
and Staff 
was fortunate to have it and it was not a necessity.» Previously, 67 percent of the housekeeping staff cleaned stu­

-••FREE DRY CLEANING ••­
dents' dorm rooms, Woods said. Distribution was analyzed after receiving complaints and he found that the common ar-Open Mon. -Sat. eas in the dorms needed more attention. 3 Locations Convienent to Campus: 
Although this would decrease 

the amount of personal atten-207 Dixie Way South Greenwood Shopping Center tion given to the individual Roseland Ironwood Dr. & State Rd. 23 dorm rooms by the general 272-8093 272-9461
housekeeping staff, and in-.............________________________ 
• $1.39 any f1lm, any day! : 
: •overSOOOtftks : : •full video store with blank tapes and video accessories : • • video players available for rent • : •conveniently located behind Campus View Apartments : 
• 
2022 South Bend Avenue e 

• 
South Bend, IN 46637 e


•• 1 hour photo developing •• 
: 272-4848 :
:...•........•......•.............•.....••.......•......•• 
----------~---·~­
pa e 12 
Advise 
continued from page 5 
Carmel, Ind.; Nancy Haegel, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Uni­
versity of California at Los An­geles; Daniel Kahrs, of Spar­tanburg, S.C.; John Keegan, partner of Abberley Kooiman, New York City; Joan McGrath, executive vice president of Mc­Grath RentCorp., San Lorenzo, Calif.; and Bruce Tuthill, senior vice president of Prudential­Bache, Hingham, Mass. 
New appointees to other Uni­
versity advisory councils were 
also announced: 
For the College of Arts and 
Letters, James Barry Jr., presi­
dent of James T. Barry Co. Inc., 
Milwaukee; Badi Foster, presi­
dent Aetna Institute For Corpo­
rate Education, Hartford, 
Conn.; Charles Grace, president 
of Cummins Atlantic Inc, Char­
lotte, N. C.; and Jeremiah 
O'Grady, Jefferies & Co., New 
York City; 


Maids 
continued from page 1 
room and board) and take away our benefits.» 
Woods emphasized that the rise in room and board costs had nothing to do with the changes that were made or equipment purchased. 
~I think it is ridiculous to as­sume, at our age, that we need people to pick up after us like we were still at home. As col­lege students we can certainly assume the small responsibility of picking up after ourselves,» said Angie Bates, a transfer student who was surprised Notre Dame had maid service in the first place. 
Junior  Rich  Miller  also  
thought the  change  to  be  a  
good one.  

"It was just another way that 

For the College of Business Administration, Roland Seidler Jr., chairman of the board, Sei­dler Amdec Securities Inc., Los Angeles. 
For the College of Engineer­ing, James Nolen III. president of Nolan Companies, Plymouth Meeting, Pa. 
For University Libraries, Philip Fagan Jr., chairman and president of Intercare Inc, Cul­ver City, Calif. 
For the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, Anthony and Yvonne Vallace. 
For the College of Science, Robert Campbell, vice chairman of the executive committee of Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, N.J. 
For the Snite Museum of Art, Allan Riley, president of Allan Riley Realty Inc., New York City, and William Voelkle, cura­tor of medieval manuscripts at Pierpont Morgan Library, New York City. 
For the Law School, Richard Anton, Pittsburgh attorney, and David Ellis, senior partner of Ellis, Bost & Robinson Ltd, Vicksburg, Miss. 
crease the responsibility of the students, Woods said he thinks the residence halls in general will be cleaner. 
Many changes in cleaning have taken place at Notre Dame over the years, Woods said. 
"For years the beds were made by the housekeepers until the University went co-ed in 1972," he said. 
Those maids were placed elsewhere, and no jobs were lost, he added. 
Woods stressed the fact that no jobs were lost during the current changes, instead some employees were appointed to new positions. "Nobody was forced out of employment," Woods said. 
There is now a minimum of 
two maids per dorm and in 
see MAIDS/ page 15 
The Observer 

Get a life! Join The Observer 
--~------~-------------------------, 
Tuesday, August 28, 1990 


STEAKS M 
10G CENTER • MISHAWAKA

PRIME RIB ~§:.rtf r.....,rn&.y ._..............
.......,..._.
SEAFOOD 

m 
219~259-9925 
ALUMNI SENIOR · 



CLUB 


WELCOME BACK SENIORS AND GRADUATES Be sure to stop by the Club this week, Wednesday through Saturday, from 9 p.m.-2 a.m. 
The fun begins on Wednesday. DON'T MISS IT!!! 
-------~------~--I
------------~ 

,-~-­
Tuesday, August28, 1990 
The Observer page 13 

Gas Research Institute donates $299,707 to ND 
Special to The Observer 

The University of Notre Dame received $1,819,333 in grants during May for the support of research and various pro­grams. Research funds totaled $974,213, including: 
•$299,707 
from the Gas Research Institute for research by Mihir Sen, associate profes­sor of aerospace a:nd mechani­cal engineering, and Hsueh­Chia Chang, chairman and pro­fessor of chemical engineering, on enhancement of hear trans­fer by chaotic mixing. 

•$129,198 
from the National Institutes of Health for re­search by Karamjit Rai, profes­sor of biological sciences, on genetic differentiation in the 


mosquito Aedes albopictus subgroup. 
•$93,738 
form the National Institutes of Health for re­search by Paul Huber, assistant professor of chemistry, on pro­tein binding sites on recombi­nant ribonucleic acid. 

•$93,300 
from the National Science Foundation for alge­braic and geometric topology studies by Laurence Taylor, William Dwyer, and E. Bruce Williams, professors of math­ematics. 

•$70,560 
from the National Science Foundation for far in­frared studies of compound semiconductors by a team of physicists headed by Jacek Furdyna, Maruez professor of. physics. 


•$37,200 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Julia Knight, profes­sor of mathematics, on recur­sive model theory. 

•$37073 
from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center for research on vortex dynamics by Robert Nelson, as­sociate chairman and professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 

•$31,750 
from the National Institutes of Health for re­search on mammal amplifica­tion of the LaCrosse virus in the mosquito Aedes albopictus. 

•$30,000 
from the U. S. Information Agency for re­search by Donald Critchlow, associate professor of history, 


on a multi-volume history of the United States to by pub­lished in Poland. 
•$28,000 
from the J. Guggenheim Memorial Foundation for research by Andrzej Walicki, O'Neill family professor of history, on Marxism and the idea of free­dom. 

•$25,000 
from International Business Machines for research by J. Kerry Thomas, Nieuwland professor of chemistry, and Deh-Ying Chu, assistant faculty fellow in chemistry, on pho­toreactions of anthracene­propane-dephenyl-sulfonium antimonate salt. 

•$23,300 
from the National Science Foundation for geo­metrical studies of superstable 


theories by Steven Suechler, as­sociate professor of mathemat­ics. 
•$20,450 
from the National Science Foundation to conduct a Research Experience for Undergraduates site in civil engineering at Notre Dame, administered by William Gray, chairman and Massman pro­fessor of civil engineering. 

•$20,237 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Gudlaugur Thorbergsson, associate pro­fessor of mathematics, on the geometry and topology of sub­manifolds. 

•$16,000 
from the Solar Energy Research Institute for research for William Berry, professor of electrical 




Like autumn leaves, Pier l's new fall fashions are full ofbrilliantcolors. As for proof, just look at all our fall floral prints. Thesecomfortable,versatile separates are ideal for workorplay. Andthisweek, they're on sale. Which is ourwayofintroducingour excitingfall collection. Choose from dress, skirt andbutton front top. Reg. $29.99 to $47.99, Sale $21.98 to $34.98. 
"'''

\It~'~" 
APiacelbDisrover.~~ 
engineering, on module (thin­film) stability and reliability characterization, analysis and modeling. 
•$10,000 
from the American Heart Association of Indiana for urokinase variants research bu Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science and Kleiderer-Pezold professor of biochemistry, and Ariel Boutaud, a Notre Dame gradu­ate student. 

•$5,000 
from Berlex Laboratories for unrestricted research by Jacob Szmuszkovicz, adjunct profes­sor of chemistry. 

•$2,200 
from the Indiana Arts Commission for a work by Pamela Falkenberg, assistant professor of communication and theatre, entitled "Desert Slacks." 


Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $200,000, including: 
•$150,000 
from National Semiconductor for solid state electronics research and educa­tion, administered by Gary Bernstein, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering, and Robert Minniti, associate professional specialist in electrical engineer­ing. 

•$35,000 
from the National Science Foundation for a com­puter graphic laboratory, ad­ministered by Hafiz Atassi, pro­fessor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering, Samuel Paolucci, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, and others. 

•$15,000 
from the U. S. Department of Energy for per­manent equipment used at Fermilab, administered by Neal Cason, Randal Ruchti and William Shephard, professors of physics. 


Awards for instructional programs totaled $549,218, in­cluding: 
•$245,113 from the U. S. Department of Education for the Upward Bound program, administered by Cedric Harris, Upward Bound program assis­tant; Dorine Blake-Smith, di­rector of Upward Bound; and Roland Smith, executive assis­tant to the president and direc­tor of the Center for Educational Opportunity. 
'•$191,105 from the National Institutes of Health for an ex­perimental parasitology and vector biology program, admin­istered by Karamjit Rai, pro­fessor of biological sciences. 
'•$58,000 from the U. S. Department of Education to promote minority enrollment in graduate studies, administered by Mario Borelli, associate pro­fessor of mathematics and di­rector of special instructional projects and activities. 
•$50,000 from International Business Machines for a new 
integrated circuits processing
Mishawaka: 5712 Grape Rd. Ph. 272-013.:. Shop M,on.-Sat. 10-9, Sun. 12-6 
laboratory at Notre Dame, see GRANTS I page 11 

Cannon aims at women 
By KEVALEEN RYAN 
News Writer 
In honor of the Year of the 
Woman, Sister Kathleen Can­
non, the newly appointed Asso­
ciate Provost, is focusing her 
efforts on the improvement of 
the situation of women at 
Notre Dame. 
Most recently an assistant 
professor of preaching and 
communication at Catholic 
Theological Union in Chicago, 
Cannon has assumed the posi­
tion left vacant by the promo­
tion of Eileen Kolman to dean 
of Freshman Year of Studies. 
The Provost office itself, 
headed by Timothy O'Meara, is 
responsible for "everything 
connected with the academic 
running of the institution," said 
Cannon. 
This responsibility is, in turn, divided between four Associate Provosts. Cannon's specific du­ties include: women's concerns, teaching and research faculties, ROTC, handicapped students, the coordination of dinners for the recipients of endowed chairs and commencement. 
According to Cannon, the As­sociate Provosts are there to facilitate contact between the administration and the afore­mentioned areas and to "keep the lines of communication open." 
Cannon's interest in Notre Dame was sparked by her post as visiting professor of theol­ogy in the fall of 1986. 
"I was excited and stimulated by contact with the students and faculty ... when the oppor­tunity for this position opened, I was excited to be a part of the building of a Catholic univer­sity," she said. 
Cannon said that her prede­cessor made an exceptional contribution to all the areas covered by the Provost office, especially in regards to women, and hopes to do the same. 
Although she has only held office for a week and has not had the opportunity to discuss the issue with the Fac­ulty/Student Committee on Women, Cannon still has some vague ideas as to this year's agenda. 
She plans to take measures to address, "the women on the faculty and their appeals for promotions and tenure and de­velop and increase the profiles of women on campus." 
Cannon received her bache­lor's degree in mathematics from Ohio Dominican College in 1965, her master's degree in religious studies from Provi­dence College in Rhode Island in 197 5 and her doctorate degree from Catholic University of 


Symonds 
continued from page 3 
matter who you were or what you were before-she always gave people a fair chance-she always rooted for the people that tried-those with the good intentions." 
A memorial mass will be held 
by the sophomore class and by 
the swim team with the dates to 
be announced. 
Chris Bacon, a floormate of 
Symonds said, "Reggie was the 
most energetic person-always 
trying to make everyone else 
cheerful because she was." 
Far Side and Spelunker see page 31. 

Sister Kathleen Cannon 
America in Washington, D.C., in 1982. 
In addition to her teaching career, which spanned both the high school and collegiate level, she has also written and lec­tured extensively on the liturgy and liturgical preaching. She is currently in the process of writing a book on lay preaching and hopes to have a manuscript completed this fall. 
Cannon stressed the impor­tance of teaching in her life and plans to continue in the theol­ogy department. "Teaching lets you be on the side lines to open up whole new worlds for people and watch them go through," she said. 
The Observer/Kevin Weise 

Talking about SafeWalk 
Senior Gina Mahony spoke yesterday at a meeting about SafeWalk, a free service providing escorts to students walking alone at night. SafeWalk can be reached seven days a week from 8 p.m. until2 a.m. at 283-BLUE. 
TRAINING CORPS 
OPPORTUNITY K.NOCKS ON THESE DOORS FIRST. Why? Because Army ROTC helps you develop management and leadership skills. Builds your self-confidence. And makes you a desirable candidate in the job market. There's no obligation until your junior year, but stick with it and you'll have what it takes to succeed-in college and in life. 


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN Tm. 
Tuesday, August28, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Siegfried and Knott, Keenan All four groups have been 
sick, instead of hiring employ­
and Stanford, and Dillon and combined into the single classi­ees from an outside temporaryMorrissey, will also have two fication of "general house­


Maids 
employment agency. 

continued from page 12 
and one-half maids per dorm. keeper," said Woods. 
Notre Dame was then paying some cases there are more. Planner and Grace will each Specialty crews were created sick leave for the housekeeper
For instance, Lewis Hall has have three and one-half people, to clean the dorms in a more and also paying a temporary a staff of three maids; Pas­said Woods. efficient way. 
employee for the day's work. 
querilla East and West will There used to be four differ­The replacement crew is Not only is this new systemeach have two and one-half ent classifications of cleaning made up of a group of house­saving money, but it is also maids, which means that one staff: housekeeper one, house­keepers that will be rotated much safer, said Woods. 
housekeeper will divide the day keeper two, a lead housekeeper, weekly. These housekeepers will Strangers will no longer have between the two dorms; and a utility person. substitute for others who are access to students' rooms, and 

SOMETIMES ATANK TOP IS ALLYOU NEED. 
The Russell Athletic Thnk. It's cool. It's classic. And it's all you need-since college is probably costing you an arm or two. So we're going to lend you ahand. Simply identify this famous statue and the two other figures from our newspaper campaign. You could win anice round figure of $1000 in scholarship money for next semes­ter.* Visit JACC Ice Arena for details and entry forms. 
*Ifyou are agraduating senior and win the sweepstakes, you will receive $1000 credit on your tuition. 

the replacements will have the advantage of knowing their way around campus. 
A second group is the detail crew. This crew is responsible for cleaning carpets, stairwells, tiles and walls on a regular ba­sis. They will also be rotated weekly, according to Woods. 
The shower crew is the third one which will also be rotated on a weekly basis. 
Woods said that the Univer­sity has spent about $15,000 in new high-pressure equipment to clean the showers. 
The fourth crew is the fixture crew which will clean the lights in the halls. A new ultrasonic cleaning machine was pur­chased to accomplish this job more efficiently. 
The trash will now be emptied once a week by two of the four crews. There will be additional receptacles on the floors of the dorms so that students may empty their own trash when it's full. 
Dorm rooms will be thor­oughly cleaned five times each year, Woods said. 
This will be done before stu­dents arrive in the fall, over Oc­tober break, Christmas break, spring break, and before com­mencement. The students are expected to do any necessary cleaning between these times, said Woods. 
This was all outlined in an in­formational sheet Woods sent out to the dorms. 
Woods said he is optimistic that the program "has enough merit to deal with problems as they arise." 
In May of 1992, the responsi­bility of emptying their garbage will fall completely upon the students. 
The new system has been in the planning stages for the past 15 months, Woods said. The fi­nal briefings were given to the officers of Notre Dame in March. 
It was shown that the "potential was there to save money," according to Woods. 
However, the officers wanted all the savings to go back into cleaning. "They did not want anyone to think they were doing it just to save money," Woods added. 
A lot of the money saved has already been put back into the housekeeping. Over $45,000 has been spent on new equip­ment and cleaning supplies.
New vacuums were purchased and are being distributed on the basis of one per resident assistant (R.A.) in each dorm. The R.A.'s will then be respon­sible for signing the vacuums out to the students in their sec­tion, Woods said. 
Sarah Voigt, an R.A. in Pas­querilla West, said that in her dorm the maids will be in charge of signing the vacuums out during the day, and then whatever R.A. is on duty that night will then take over the process. It will be strictly on a first-come, first-serve basis, Voigt said. 
Woods said that the only stu­dent input he received was in the form of complaints heard in the past, although he did brief Student Body President Rob Pasin and Student Body Vice President Fred Tombar after the changes had been imple­mented. 
The housekeeping staff was 

told in May about the change 
and Woods said that there was 
"initially a lot of unrest." People 
are generally threatened by 
change, he added. 
Housekeepers expressed con­

cern about long-term employees 
and new staggered hours, 
Woods said. 
As a result, he said that su­

pervisors met in both group 
and one on one sessions with 
the housekeepers to get their 
input. 


Viewpoint 
page 16 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to· all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
Tuesday, August 28, 1990 


LETTERS 


Malloy urges students to take advantage of all ND offers 
Dear Notre Dame Students: 
I want to welcome you back to the campus for another academic year. I hope that the summer was a productive time for each of you. The campus has been quite active in your absence, including a number of construction, renovation and beautification projects. We are all pleased that Sacred Heart Church has been reopened and can once again serve as our center of worship. The Juniper Road corridor has undergone extensive improvements, and additional parking spaces have been made available in the three main parking areas. 

As you have already heard, Professor Patricia O'Hara is our new Vice-President for Student Affairs. She eagerly looks forward to working with you during this coming year. Dr. Ellen Kolman is our new Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. As always, there have been a number of additions to the faculty and staff. 
This is the "Year of Women." A number of activities are being planned under the auspices of the committee headed by Dr. Kolman. I hope that you will participate in a number of these events. We all need to grow in our comprehension of the significance of gender in our experience of life, work and relationship. I am confident that Notre Dame can become an ever more welcoming and supporting environment for all who study and labor here. 
All of us in the administration look forward to a fruitful and cooperative year. You have elected outstanding leaders in student government at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. I am confident that they will represent you well. 
I encourage you to get to know your faculty in a personal way. They can be a tremendous resource as you explore the options of your life. We are proud of the high quality of faculty that we have been able to attract and consider them the most precious resource of the University. 
For those of you who live on campus, your rectors and assistant rectors, as well as the other staff in Student Affairs, are readily available for counsel and support. Share your life with them and take full advantage of their dedicated presence 
I look forward to having the opportunity to speak with many of you during the course of the year. May God bless us all in this coming academic year. 
Cordially, Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. President University ofNotre Dame 

New VP for Student Affairs Hickey tells SMC students to 
extends welcome to students 
take initiative, get involve.d .
Dear Notre Dame Students: 

our founder, Father EdwardI would like to extend to you a Sorin, C.S.C. We hope that all of Dear Saint Mary's Students: that may at first elude your prepa~mg. for g~aduatwn a.nd warm welcome on behalf of all you -both those who are new Welcome back! understanding. I encourage you mterviewmg With potential
of us who work in the Division 

and those who are returning -Each year, when students not to be discouraged or employers. These years on 
of Student Affairs -the Office 

will be able to achieve the begin to arrive on campus dissuaded when the path to campus offer a umque
of Residence Life, Security, 

academic, spiritual and during these late August days, I understanding becomes opportunity to grow as an 
Student Residences, Alcohol 

personal goals you set for am struck by how much those difficult. You will need to individual, to become involved 
and Drug Education, Student 

yourselves this year. of us who remain on campus stretch your mind -in the in programs that expand your
Activities, International Student 

Although this is my tenth year for the summer are rejuvenated classroom and in your personal vistas, to expose yourself to 
Affairs, Minority Student 

on the faculty, it is my first year by the exuberance that you lives -if you are to gain full individuals of different cultures 
Affairs, Counseling Center, 

as Vice President for Student bring with you when you advantage if all that is offered and ethnic origins and to 
Career and Placement, Health 

Affairs. Thus, I begin this year return. I hope that you are to you at Saint Mary's. explore formal and informal 
Services, Campus Ministry and 

with a special sense of rested and ready for the rigors I urge you to be receptive to opportunities to grow in 
Hall Staffs. Although we 

excitement and a desire to of the academic year. All of us the knowledge and experiences knowledge and understanding.
provide a variety of services, we 

come to know as many of you on campus -my fellow that are in store for you and Together, they offer a richness 
share a common desire to do 

as possible in the months administrators, the faculty and your fellow students. Commit of experience that is available
everything we can to help 

ahead. I will be at a number of staff -look forward to the yourself to do well in your only rarely in each lifetime. 
facilitate your intellectual, 

student functions opening the 1990-91 academic year with the course work, and challenge I hope that you will take 
spiritual and personal growth 

academic year. In addition, I hope that your intellectual and yourself to take part in the advantage of all that is 
in your lives outside the 

hope to visit each residence hall personal growth will be numerous cultural, social and available for your personal and 
classroom. 

during the fall semester. I am enriched by your experience at spiritual activities available. educational development while
We welcome back the 

also looking forward to a forum Saint Mary's. Attending class and completing you are a Saint Mary's student, 
sophomores, juniors and 

to meet off-campus students. Our immediate objective is to assignments are critical to your but it is YOU who must make 
seniors, as well as the returning 

Until I can greet you in provide you with the finest ~uccessful completion of an the commitment to become
graduate and professional 

person, please know that you education available, but our undergraduate degree, yet they involved-to make the most of 
students. We extend a special 

have my very best wishes for a hope is that we will educate you represent only a portion of the all there is to learn and do 
welcome to our new students ­

year filled with all God's good in a way that ensures that your education that your college here. 
the freshmen, transfer and new 

blessings. educational process will be years should provide. 
graduate and professional 

Professor Patricia A. O'Hara lifelong. To accomplish this The time you spend at Saint William A. Hickey
students. You join a proud 

l-ice Presient long range goal, we must rely Mary's represents only an President 
community with a rich tradition 

for Student Affairs on your commitment to learn, interlude in your life. Before Saint Mary's College 
that dates back to the vision of 

to question, to seek answers you know it, you will be August 27, 1990 
DOONESBURY 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'We stand today on the edge of a new frontier ... ' 
(1917-1963) 






Accent 
Tuesday, August 28, 1990 page 17 
Theatre tickets on sale soon; 1990-91 plays announced 
KEVALEEN RYAN 
accent writer 

In an effort to provide more theatre performance opportuni­ties for students at Notre Dame, the Communication and Theatre Department is spon­soring four new plays at Wash­ington Hall for the 1990-91 season. according to Mark Pilkinton, chairman of the de­partment. 
The first will be a presenta­tion by Catholic University's National Players of Shake­speare's classic "The Taming of the Shrew" on Sept. 19 -23. The Bard's vivid language and elaborate puns produce a rau­cous comedy in which a deter­mined suitor. Petruchio, accepts the challenge of "taming" the fierce and contentedly unwed Katharina. National Players is a touring group made up of young professionals and stu­dents in Catholic University's graduate theatre program. 
Next on the agenda is Richard Nelson's adaptation of Dario Fo's "Accidental Death of an Anarchist," running from Dec. 5 -9. This brilliant satire of police corruption in Italy which ridicules everything from the government to the latest shoe style will be directed by Pilkinton. 
On Feb. 27 -Mar. 3. Theatre Grottesco. a theatrical company from Detroit, will perform the world premiere of a new com­edy which has been surrounded by an intriguing secrecy. The company was founded in Paris in 1983 and is known for its physicality and presents works in which the comedy, sadness and absurdity of life are em­phasized. The name Grottesco comes from an Italian word meaning fantastic, ridiculous or comic. 

The final play of the season, running from Apr. 24 -28, will be Betolt Brecht's "The Good Woman of Setzuan." Directed by Frederic Syburg, this play is a contemporary version of the medieval morality play. It is the story of three gods in search of people who are both good and happy; however, in Setzuan the only virtuous person is a prostitute. 
In addition to this four-play subscription series, the de­partment is planning to inaugu­rate the Notre Dame Studio Series. These productions will take place in Washington Hall's laboratory theatre and are de­signed to promote new experi­mentation among student ac­tors and directors. The initial October debut, directed by Reginald Bain, will be Euripi­des' "Trojan Women." 
Subscriptions for the Notre Dame Theatre season will be available until Sept. 14. Single tickets for "Taming of the Shrew" will go on sale Sept. 3 at the ticket office of the 
Father Nick Weber, ringmaster and founder of The Royal Lichtenstein Circus, takes time out for a hot 
LaFortune Student Center (239­
lunch during a performance. The circus takes place tomorrow at the Fieldhouse Mall from noon to 1 p.m. 
8128.) 

'Excorcist Ill' a good movie--but it won't turn any heads 

COLLEEN CRONIN 
accent editor 

In 197 3 "The Exorcist." writ­ten and produced by William Peter Blatty. was a box-office blockbuster. The story of a teenage girl possesed by an evil force took the country by storm. "The Exorcist II," released in 1977 without Blatty's participation was a box-office bomb. Now, 17 years later, Blatty has written and pro­duced the official sequel, "The 
Exorcist III," based on his 1983 novel Legion. And if the first one scared you this orre will. too. 
The movie is set again in Ge­orgetown and 15 years after 'The Exorcist." The question this time is not simply who is 
·possessed but how many are possessed. It neatly combines a detective story, a theological story and a horror story. The film does not use a lot of special effects-no spinning heads or projectile vomiting-but the gore isn't necessary. The story­line itself is enough. 
The Georgetown area is ex­periencing a rash of violent morbid murders that bear a re­semblance to the Gemini mur­ders about 15 years ago in the same area. The fingerprints lead police to a near-catatonic old woman in the neurological ward of the hospital. Any more details would ruin the movie. 
It is a credit to the movie that the audience is kept in the dark for most of the movie as to who exactly is doing all the killing. There are some bizarre se­quences that will throw viewers for a loop, but the film is by no means unrealistic. 


"The Exorcist III" is certainly a horror movie, but the warn­ings that pregnant women and people with heart conditions should not see the film are a lit­tle exaggerated. 
George C. Scott plays the in­vestigating police lieutenant who breaks the case open and closes it as well. Jason Miller returns as Father Damien Kar­ras from the original movie. 
"The Exorcist III" is not without fault. At one point, two different actors were used to portray the same person when he was and was not possessed. It was a good idea but it was difficult to figure out because the change was not very clear. and it led to some confusion. 
It isn't necessary to see the original before seeing "The Ex­orcist III"-the movie does not depend upon knowledge of the first. It is a fun movie for those who like the whole posses­·­sion/exorcism concept and who like to be scared. 

-

------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------­
..... 
-· 
-
t-
Scoreboard 
Tuesday, August 28, 1990page 18 

1990 NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS' SCHEDULE 
Oct. 13 at Illinois NAVY PENN STATE
Nov. 3 BRIGHAM
MICHIGAN 

Oct. 20 OHIO STATE 
YOUNG Oct. 27 at Michigan State at Army Sept. 8 RICHMOND Sept. 8 TEXAS
Nov. 10
Sept. 15 at Notre Dame Nov. 3 MICHIGAN Nov. 17 at T exas-EI Paso Sept. 15 at Virginia Sept. 15 at USCSept. 22 UCLA Nov. 10 at Northwestern Sept. 22 VILLANOVA Sept. 22 RUTGERSSept. 29 MARYLAND Nov. 17 at Iowa MIAMI Sept. 29 BOSTON Oct. 6 TEMPLEOct. 6 at Wisconsin Nov.24 INDIANA COLLEGE Oct. 13 SYRACUSEOct. 13 MICHIGAN ST. 

Sept. 8 at Brigham Young Oct. 6 at Air Force Oct. 20 at Boston College Oct. 20 IOWA 
STANFORD Sept. 15 at California Oct. 13 AKRON Oct. 27 at Alabama 
Oct. 27 at Indiana Sept. 29 IOWA Oct. 27 JAMES Nov. 3 at West Virginia Nov. 3 at Purdue Sept. 6 at Colorado Oct. 6 FLORIDA STATE MADISON Nov. 10 MARYLANDNov. 10 ILLINOIS Sept. 15 UCLA Oct. 13 KANSAS Nov. 3 NOTRE DAME Nov. 17 at Notre Dame Nov. 17 MINNESOTA Sept. 22 OREGON STATE Oct. 20 at Notre Dame Nov. 10 at Toledo Nov. 24 PITTSBURGHNov. 24 at Ohio State 

Sept. 29 SAN JOSE ST. Oct. 27 at Texas Tech Nov. 17 DELAWARE Oct. 6 at Notre Dame Nov. 3 PITTSBURGH Dec. 8 ARMY usc
MICHIGAN STATE 

Oct. 13 usc Nov. 17 BOSTON Oct. 20 WASHINGTON COLLEGE TENNESSEE Aug. 31 at Syracuse
Sept. 15 at Syracuse Oct. 27 at Oregon Nov. 24 SYRACUSE Sept. 15 PENN STATESept. 22 NOTRE DAME Nov. 3 WASHINGTON Dec. 1 at San Diego State Sept. 1 PACIFIC Sept. 22 at WashingtonSept. 29 at Rutgers 

STATE Sept. 8 at Mississippi St. Sept. 29 at Ohio State
Oct. 6 IOWA Nov. 10 at Arizona PmSBURGH Sept. 15 TEXAS-EL PASO Oct. 6 WASHINGTONOct. 13 at Michigan Nov. 17 at California Sept. 29 At Auburn STATEOct. 20 at Illinois Sept. 1 OHIO STATE Oct. 13 FLORIDA Oct. 13 at StanfordOct. 27 PURDUE 

AIR FORCE Sept. 8 BOSTON Oct. 20 ALABAMA Oct. 20 ARIZONA
Nov. 3 INDIANA 

COLLEGE Nov. 3 TEMPLE Oct. 27 at Arizona State
Nov. 10 at Minnesota Sept. 1 COLORADOST Sept. 15 at Oklahoma Nov. 10 NOTRE DAME Nov. 3 CALIFORNIANov. 17 at Evanston Sept. 8 HAWAII Sept. 22 at Syracuse Nov. 17 at Mississippi Nov. 10 at Oregon StateNov.24 WISCONSIN 

Sept. 15 THE CITADEL Sept. 29 WEST VIRGINIA Nov. 24 KENTUCKY Nov. 17 UCLA Sept. 22 at Wyoming Oct. 13 RUTGERS Dec. 1 at Vanderbilt Nov. 24 NOTRE DAME
PURDUE 

Sept. 29 at San Diego Oct. 20 LOUISVILLE State Oct. 27 NOTRE DAME
Sept. 15 WASHINGTON 

NFL LINESCORES 
Oct. 6 NAVY Nov. 3 at MiamiSept. 22 INDIANA STATE Oct. 13 at Notre Dame Nov. 10 TEMPLESept. 29 at Notre Dame Oct. 27 UTAH Nov.24 at Penn State
Oct. 6 MINNESOTA Eagles 17, Colts 16 
Philadelphia 0 7 0 10-17 'A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 20 Indianapolis 6 3 7 0-16 First Quarter lnd-Beach 1 pass from George (kick failed), 14:12.
The Associated Press 1990 
Second Quarter 

Preseason football rankings: 
lnd-FG Biasucci 23, :58. 
Record for 1989, points received 
Phi-M.Johnson 9 pass from McMahon (Ruzek kick),
in 1990 ranking and final ranking 
10:29. 
for 1989. 

Third Quarter lnd-Ciark 4 pass from Trudeau (Biasucci kick), 7:30. 
1. 
Miami 11-1-0 1,431 1 Fourth Quarter 

2. 
Notre Dame 12-1-0 1,406 2 Phi-Drummond 1 run (Ruzek kick), 4:26. 

3. 
Auburn 10-2-0 1,311 6 Phi-FG Ruzek 33, 13:04. 4. Florida St. 10-2-0 1,268 3 5. Colorado 11-1-0 1,258 4 Phi lnd 


First downs 17 15 Rushes-yards 24-89 16-37 
6. 
Michigan 10-2-0 1,116 7 Passing 205 248 

7. 
Nebraska 10-2-0 1 ,019 11 Return Yards 4 1 

8. 
Tennessee 11-1-0 982 5 Comp-Att-lnt 19-28-1 22-37-1 9.USC 9-2-1 977 8 Sacked-Yards Lost 3-15 4-23 10. Clemson 10-2-0 91912 Punts 5-40 5-33 


Fumbles-Lost 3-1 3-2 Penalties-Yards 6-40 7-64 11. Illinois 1 0·2-0 90010 
Time of Possession 28:35 31:25 12. Alabama 1 0-2-0 728 9 13. Texas A&M 8-4-0 719 20 
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 
14. Arkansas 1 0-2-0 62913 15. Virginia 1 0-3-0 57518 
RUSHING-Philadelphia, Sherman 9-30, R.Cunningham 2-17, Byars 3-16, Drummond 5-15, Garrett 3-9, Cavanaugh 1-4, Hoage 
16. 
BYU 10-3-0 557 22 1-(minus 2). Indianapolis, Bentley 5-27, Trudeau 1-14, Clark 3-3, 

17. 
Ohio State 8-4-0 50224 Benhart 1-3, Hunter 1-1, George 1-0, A.Johnson 3-(minus 1), 

18. 
Pittsburgh 8-3-1 45917 Hester 1-(minus 1 0). 

19. 
UCLA 3-7-1 404-PASSING-Philadelphia, Cavanaugh 9-10-0-109, McMahon 8-13­

20. 
Washington 8-4-0 39223 0-96, R.Cunningham 2-4-1-15, Feagles 0-1-0-0. Indianapolis, George 11-21-1-153, Trudeau 10-12-0-113, Ben hart 1-4-0-5. 




Who needs our furniture? 
Study fiends, Couch Potatoes, Party Animals•••• 
~~~ ~----~­
ND/SMC BACK TO SCHOOL FURNITURE SALE 
Chairs $1 5-35 "~°40 ~~~+ Loveseats $35·75 ~~~"'~> 
t,~'*'~ Sofas $50-90 ~l.l~ A-o~ MONDAY AUGUST 27TH 9:00AM-7:00PM TUESDAY AUGUST 28TH 9:00AM-7:00 PM Goodwill Plaza Parking Lot


[VISA J 

921 N. Eddy Street 
• 

• 
3 minutes South of Campus (Take Juniper South) Checks accepted with student I.D. Delivery Service Available 


Tuesday, August28, 1990 
The Observer page 19 
-


Pennant Fever 
AP Photos 

As the summer wanes, Dennis Eckersley of Oakland, Dwight Evans of Boston, Paul O'Neill of Cincinnati and Gary Redus of Pittsburgh all hope to remain frontrunners. 
The ObseNer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Used Textbooks! 25% OFF LIST PRICE Pandora's Books corner of ND ave. and Howard 233-2342 ------------------------------------- SliTER NEEDED TWO AFTERNOONS AND EVENINGS A WEEK. MUST DRIVE. KNOLLWOOD AREA CALL277­8380 Needed: Assistant coaches for local age group swim team 2 to 4 evenings per week. Call 233-1366. DRIVERS NEEDED. $7-10/HR. NIGHTS. DOMINO'<; PIZZA, 271­ PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOME WALK TO ND 6838889 OR2876389 Furnished room, air, kitchen, phone line. Close to campus. 272­0615 FOR SALE Large Gold Armchair in nice  10-SPEED BIKE, RECONDITIONED. $85. 232­6509,237-1170, 234-8743. On Notre Dame's doorstep. Oak Hill condo like new condition, 2 bedrooms, 2 baths. Choice location in complex. $65,900. CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE REALTY 282-2351. TWIN BED LOFT FOR SALE.  HELP!!!! Parents' first and last chance to see an ND football game. Desperately need 2 GA's and one student ticket for MICHIGAN. please call AMY (R.) 272-8954 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ BETH NEEDS TICKETS!!!!!  BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 22­MO. CHILD. TUES-THURS. OR MON.WED.FRI. OR M-F. 8-12:30. 234-8743. BLONDIE­1MISS YOU ALREADY. ALL MY LOVE, SKINNYMAN  
LOST/FOUND My blue Notre Dame bookbag was taken from a locker at the bookstore on 8/24. It had valuable files in it. If you can help me find this bookbag  0300. Chicago Tribune carriers needed for immediate campus morning delivery. Some collecting required and dependibility a must. Call City News SeNice. 232-3205.  condition. $20 288-5859 COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 19" COLOR TV. TWO SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $90, ONE SEMESTER $65. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­ PROFESIONALLY MADE AND READY TO ASSEMBLE. $100.00 289-8404 AFTER 5PM. Couch, 2 recliner chairs, maple rocker, 2 night stands, lamps 272­9776 Sofa& Chair  Student tickets needed for Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and Air Force. Call Beth at 288-0597 Have 2 STAN. GA's. Need PURDUE GA's. Trade? 717-757­ STEPHANIE PORTER and JENNIFER BENNING: Welcome to ND and Farley. I'm very excited about my two newest "little sisters." here's to a great year...monica  
and its contents. please call Desmond at 271-5693. No questions asked. WANTED L-----------' CRUISE SHIPS Now hiring all positions. Both skilled and ' unskilled. For information Call 1­800-442-5507 Ext. J-200. POST ADVERTISING MATERIALS ON CAMPUS. WRITE: COLLEGE DISTRIBUTORS, 33 PEBBLEWOOD TR., NAPERVILLE, IL 60563. Sitter needed for 2 & 4 y.o. for the occas. day. evening or weekend. 287-3694 WANTED-Subway delivery  I FORRENT I AVAILABLE NOW-5/6 bdrm., 2­bath house. Newly Decorated. Secure House. Competitive Rent. 234-6688, 234-5041. 3 ROOM APTS., 2 PEOPLE PER APT. AT $200 EACH, UTILITIES INCLUDED. 315 N. TAYLOR, 282­1014. HOUSE FOR RENT-2 BR. HOME NEAR ND CAMPUS, NEWER CARPET, 2 CAR DETACHED GARAGE. $300. CALL 679-4955. HOUSE FOR RENT -LARGE 3 BR. HOME NEAR ND CAMPUS, STORAGE IN BASEMENT & ATIIC, 1 CAR ATIACHED  5959. FURNITURE FOR SALE: Sofa, swivel rocker, coffee table, 2 end tables. floor lamp, 2 table lamps, vanity and bench, and ping pong table. Call 234-8835. THIS STUFF IS NICE -NOT JUNK. 19" TV table model cable-ready color$100; Wrought Iron Sofa, $40; like new Hexagon coffee table. $15; Nice stereo AM-FM cassette, $50; Microwave stand, $15; Chrom. adjustable floor lamp,$1 0; adult bike used 3 times, $60, paid new $119. Call272-0885. NEED A LOFT? I'VE GOT ONE FOR YOU!! It's sturdy, hand­painted and only $35. If interested, call Michelle x3879.  $50 277-7406 TICKETS NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717­297-2192. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I need student or GA's forMICHIGAN and MIAMI Will pay big bucks!!!!!!! CALL TOM 271-8245 !NEED MONEY?i need 3 TIX to!! !sept.15 NO-MICH. gen. ad. or! !stud. =O.k. Older bra +sis !!!!!! coming for 1st game $$3022!  1934, Bill. Need two MIAMI tickets for long lost WEALTHY uncle 287-3472 Scotty TICKETS NEEDED!!!! 2 G.A.'s for MICHIGAN 2 G .A.'s + 1 Student ticket tor Air Force 273-9469 Diane PERSONALS BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION. Loving couple, both college teachers, unable to have children. Husband has adopted sisters. We are responsible, caring people  to those living in the 'LOVE SHAK'­·you know who you are. we will sleep close, sweat close. and be close. fire up for a fabulous year of painting fingernails and all that fun stuff. TEST ARE YOU GAY, LESBIAN. OR BISEXUAL? Student Discussion Groups meeting weekly. For time and place call Mike 237-0788. HI DENNIS WOLFE!! Yes, here come more personals! Thanks a ton for moving all my furniture over the past couple days--you are a wonderful boyfriend!  
driver/counterperson for Notre Dame & St. Mary's. Uniforms, meals, and hourly bonus. Applicants must have dependable transportation. Call277-7744 for inteNiew appointment. FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED SEPT-MAY. TURTLE CREEK APTS. 273-9406. OVERSEAS AND CRUISESHIPS EMPLOYMENT. Many positions. Work Month-Home Month. Call (80S) 682·7SSS Ext. 5-1912  GARAGE. $435. CALL 679-4955. 719 E. HOWARD. 2 OR 3 BEDROOM. 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS. ATIACHED GARAGE. BIG EAT-IN KITCHEN. BIG LIVING ROOM, BIG DINING ROOM. SCREENED IN PORCH. 277-4469 RHONDA. NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable and secure turn. apt: 755 South Bend Ave., 1 bdrm. $265, dep., references. 616-483-9572. ROOM AVAILABLE, LAUNDRY FACILITIES. WALK TO N.D. $160 MO. LAW OR GRAD STUD. 234­8743.  REPOSSESSED VA & HUD HOMES ovoiloble from governmen for Sl wilhout credit check. You repair. Also lox delinquent foredosures. Coli (805) 682-7555 Ext. H-3269 for repo list 'fOil' oreo. SEIZED CARS, trucks, boats, 4wheelers, motorhomes, by FBI, IRS, DEA. Available your area now. Call (805) 6 82.Y555 Ext. C-2743.  FOOTBALL TIX & HOTEL PACKAGE AVAILABLE FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME ON 9/22 & 9/23. $119.50/PERSON BUT DBL. OCCUPANCY REQUIRED. CALL 233-7056. SPONSORED BY MSU ALUMNI CLUB. VISA & MASTERCARD ACCEPTED. WANTED: 2 tickets-NO vs Penn State.Call316-775-6143 after 6pm. Leave message. BUY OR TRADE 2 OR 4 PURDUE,STANFD,AF GA TIX FOR MICH,MIAMI,PSU. CALL ASHLEY 283-4046.  ready to share our love with a much wanted baby. Medical expenses paid. Confidential and legal. Please call collect anytime except Tues/Thurs. 317-743-4512. SMCGALS­GET ACQUAINTED OFFER. 10% OFF ONE ITEM WITH THIS AD AND SMC 10. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER "The Great Little Gift Store" LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER Tap, Tap, Tap. That's Pat, Pat, Pat backwards. Glad you're back. Love You know who. hiag  WANTED Campus rock band PHOENIX looking for lead singer. Classic rock --no wimps! call Peter x1414 VISA OR MASTERCARD! Even if bankrupt or bad credit! We guarantee you a card or double your money back. Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. M1443.  .......  

~---------------·--~-~------­
page 20 The Observer Tuesday, August28, 1990 
-

AP Photo 
Hooks I ide! 

Benito Santiago and the San Diego Padres slid past the Montreal Expos last night by a score of 4-1. 

Todd Lyght (top) and Chris Zorich (above) are preseason candidates for the Thorpe Award and the Outland Trophy respectively. Read next week's Observer for more details on the early frontrunners in the race for college football's most prestigious awards. 
The Russells' silverware got caught in a forest fire. 

So did the Russells. 
Today, more and more people are living do!;er and closer ro the forests. TharS why, toda'r: fbresr f1res biJ more than trees. Ple-d.SC be careful. Onlv you can prevent forest f1res. 
The Observer/File Photo 

CARPET REMNANT SALE 
1 ,000 REMNANTS 10% TO 20% OFF 
4119 Grape, Mishawaka, IN "At Grape and Day Road" In Decorators Walk Shopping Center 277-9711 
Monday to Friday 9:00 to 8:30 Saturday 9:00 to 5:30 Sunday 1:00 to 5:30 
Bring this ad in to our store a·nd get an extra 5% off our already low low sale price. One ad per purchase. 




Dett~ef'1 areas limited lo ensure ;ale drivmg. ©1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
• IT'S TIME FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA~ 
Call Us! 

NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S
1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave.
--------
---------------...
I ou've heard of Twin Peaks, ISUNDAY DOUBLE Domino's Pizza is offering EARLY WEEK I
• FEATURE SPECIAL I
I I 

OFFPEAKS I I
I Get 2 small original I Ifyou order before 4pm I Get 1large original I
• 
• 
I pizzas each topped with I and/or after 8pm, you can I pizza with your favorite I I your favorite topping I get 1 medium original pizza I topping for only $4.99. I I for $10.95. I with 2 toppings and 2 Cokes~ Valia Mondays & I I Valid Sundays only. I for only $7.99 I Tuesdays orily. I
I DEl . I Dll I 
••• 1 mm® 1 mm® . 1 I ~-. !
I Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other otler. Prices I 'hlid at partiapatJng stores only. Not valid With any other offer Pnces I Valid at partic1patmg stores only. Not valid with any other olfer. Prices I may vaf'1 Customer pays :.ales tax where applicable. Delivery areas 1 may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas I may vaf'1 Customer pays ;ales tax where applicable. Deli..ery areas 1
I limited to ensure ;ate dnvmg Our drivers cafr'1 less than $20.00 limoted to ensure sale drivmg. Our dnvers Cafr'1less than $2000 lim•ted to ensure ;ate driving. Our dtTYers carry Jess than $20.00.
• Our dnvers are not penalized for late detivenes · 
Our drivers are not penalized tor late dehvenes Our dnvers are not penalized for late deltveries. 
• 


Funderburke re-enrolls at IU 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­
Funderburke's attorney, Lawrence Funderburke, who William Fleck of Columbus abrupt) y left Indiana Ohio, was on vacation Monday University's basketball team and unavailable for comment. last winter, returned to the In April, he had advised his campus for the start of classes client to complete the nine Monday. hours. 
Funderburke wants to play Funderburke could not be basketball in 1991, but not for reached for comment Monday. Indiana. said Bret Bearup, a "He hasn't met with Coach Louisville, Ky., attorney and Knight, who's been out of town friend of the player. the last three weeks," Teter 
He is enrolled as a full-time said. student for the fall semester, Knight is not due back in the IU registrar's office said Bloomington until Sept. 10. Monday. Funderburke tried to meet 
"We know he's on campus, with Knight in July, but we know he's enrolled, but we Another nine hours of classes Knight's schedule prevented don't know his plans," said would allow Funderburke to them from talking, Teter said. Brian Teter, assistant sports complete his freshman year, "There was a rumor that he information director. and get him out of the letter of was going to ask to be let back 
Coach Bob Knight kicked intent. on the team," Teter said. Funderburke out of practice Funderburke plans to trans­last December and the talented fer at the end of the semester, Funderburke's presence on forward never returned to the Bearup told the Herald-Times the Bloomington campus has team. of Bloomington on Monday. sparked speculation about 
Instead, he enrolled at St. "His plans are to take 12 whether he will try to make the Catharine College in hours this semester and then team as a walk-on, or complete Springfield, Ky., saying he was look for a school at the end of his nine hours and transfer, unhappy with Knight's system. the semester," Bearup said. Teter said. He attended the first day of classes Jan. 18, but left shortly thereafter. 
Knight refused to release Funderburke from his letter of intent, and he revoked Funderburke's scholarship. 


is currently accepting applications for the WELCOME BACK 
following positions:STUDENTS! 
Associate News 
ROCCO'S Restaurant 


Editors 
South Bend's "Original Pizza" and a tradition with students 

To apply, please submit a two-page personal 
The Finest Italian Cuisine 

statement by 3 p.m. Friday, August 31 to Kelley 
537 N. St. Louis Blvd. 

Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303).
233-2464 

Open Daily 10-5:30pm Sat 10-5 
Directions: 

•..N-o..__.. g Edison ~ McKinley Brina Your Measurements ---to Visa and Mastercard accepted
Mishawaka 0.* 

page 22 The Observer 

234-5148 

Free Domino's Pizza with Purchase: 12 x 8 or larger 


-~~~-~--~--~--~--·~~---~--­
Tuesday, August 28, 1990 The Observer 
page 23 



Fall schedule will soon begin for Irish athletes ­
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame's 1990 fall sports schedule will begin soon as the Irish volleyball and soc­cer teams will return to action by Sept. 2 and the cross country teams will begin competing on Sept. 15. With the new season comes a sense of optimism for Notre Dame's athletes and their coaches as they begin the fall with a clean slate. 
The Irish volleyball team will try to rebound from a 1989 campaign which saw Coach Art Lambert's squad struggle to its first losing record since 1985 against a murderous schedule. Notre Dame finished 14-17 a year ago, but will try to im­prove on that mark as five starters return to the lineup and a talented freshman class will provide support. 
Once again. though, a diffi­cult schedule which begins Aug. 31 at the Washington State Invitational in Pullman, Wash., could block the Irish road to success. Included among Notre Dame's 1990 opponents are 20 teams which earned top 20 rankings at some point last season, and 10 teams which participated in last season's NCAA Tournament. 

Joe Piane 
Traditional powers Penn 
State, Illinois, LSU and 
Colorado all will visit the Joyce 
ACC this fall, and the Irish will 
travel to Texas, Pittsburgh and 
Minnesota as well. The Soviet 
Junior National Team will also 
appear at the Joyce ACC on Oct. 
4 in its annual tour of the 
United States. 
"Once again, we have a pretty 
rough schedule." Lambert said. The Notre Dame women's soccer team begins its season Sept. 1 at Krause Stadium against Northeast Missouri State. The match will be new head coach Chris Petrucelli's first test since coming over from Old Dominion with 
Berticelli. 
After the Northeast Missouri State match the Irish will travel down tobacco road for matches at Duke and UNC-Greensboro in what could be the most diffi­cult part of their schedule. Under Petrucelli Notre Dame will try to improve on last year's 12-10 record. 
The Irish played their only exhibition match of the season when they took a tough Wisconsin squad into overtime before losing 4-1 on August 21 in Madison, Wis. 
The Notre Dame men's and women's cross country teams will return to action against Georgetown Sept. 15 at Burke Memorial Golf Course under the direction of Coach Joe Piane. The men's squad has defeated the Hoyas in each of the past three years, including last year's 22-33 triumph. 
All-American Mike O'Connor is back to lead the men's team, which finished ninth in last year's national rankings and won its second consecutive Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship. Senior captain Terese Lemanski will lead the Irish women, who finished second to Dayton in the MCC last season. 







DORMITORY 
The Observer/File Photo 

The Notre Dame volleyball team will try to improve on last year's 14-17 
record. The Irish begin their season on August 31 at the Washington 
State Invitational.

REFRIGERATORS 
RENTAL SIZES: 
$45

2.5 CUBIC FEET (startingat) 
-
for the school year
3.5 
CUBIC FEET 

4.5 
CUBIC FEET 


6.5 CUBIC FEET 

PICK-UP AND DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
BURNS RENTAL, INC 332 W. MISHAWAKA AVE. 
(corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) 
I he Observer/File Photo The Irish women's soccer squad will kick off its season September 2 

~------------------------------------------------------~
MISHAWAKA FDRNI7DRE CORP. 
FURNITURE-APPLIANCES-CARPETING 
402 Lincoln Way West Mishawaka, IN 46844 phone:299-5494 

We have everything lor your students' dorm room or apartment: chain, tables, lamps, desks, love seats, sofas, dinettes... All of our items are new and we have many one-ol+kind disconUnued items or odd pieces. 
Chairs S7S.OO Many tables starting at S50.00 Lamps as low as S2B.OO 
We are open every night until 8:30 during the week, Saturday 9:00-5:30, and Sunday 12 noon-5:30 We are on Lincoln Way West in Mishawaka-Just two blocks east of the 100 Center on the north side of the street. 
Inthewake 
of 

Hurricane Hu_go, 

you provecr
tfiat 

there's aforce 

greater

than nature. 
It ""J.S the most destructive hurricane in history. 135 mph winds. !6-foot waves. Over 14 billion in property damage. And thousands of people left homeless. 
\et even ahurricane the size of Hugo was no ma!Ch lor your compassion Millions ofdollar:; in oonationsstaned pouring into our Disaster Relief Fund as soon as Hugo struck. And you've kept it coming~ Thanks to your overwhehning support, we've been able to shelter and feed 129,000 people 
Jlro\iril that tlm ~ore thingmore pDIIHfuJ than ~bOO" Naure 
Hwnan nature. 
+ 

American Red Cross 
~-, 

~--..------~--~--~-------.~------~-------------------------._---------------------------------------------------~--------------------------­
-pa e 24 1990 NoTRE DAME FooTBALL OPPONENTS Tuesday, August 28, 1990 
MICHIGAN 
Date, Place: Sept. 15 in Notre Dame Stadium Coach: Gary Moeller (first season) 
1989 Recap: 10-2 (8-0 Big Ten), 17-10 loss to Southern Cal in Rose Bowl 
Key Losses: SE Greg McMurty, TB Tony Boles, TE Derrick Walker, FL Chris Calloway, QB Michael Taylor, MG Mike Teeter, LB J.J. Grant, LB Bobby Abrams 
Key Returnees: QB Elvis Grbac, TB Allen Jefferson, QT Tom Dorhing, RG Dean Dingman, C Steve Everitt, LG Matt Elliott, ST Greg Skrepenak, FB Jerrod Bunch, PK J.D. Carlson, LB Alex Marshall. DT Chris Hutchinson, DT Mike Evans, LB Erick Anderson, CB Lance Dottin, CB David Key, SS Tripp Welborne, FS Vada Murray, P Chris Stapleton 
Opening Game: Sept. 15 at Notre Dame Series with Notre Dame: Michigan leads 13-8 

Dixon Edwards, CB Allan Haller, 
FS Mike Ianquaniello, P Josh Butland 
Opening Game: Sept. 15 at Syracuse Series with Notre Dame: Notre Dame leads 36-18-1 
PURDUE 

Date, Place: Sept. 29 in Notre Dame Stadium Coach: Fred Akers (10-22-1 in three years) 
1989 Recap: 3-8 (2-6 Big Ten) 
Key Losses: SE Robert Oglesby, OT Bruce Brineman, OT Bill Hitchcock, TE Dwayne O'Connor, FL Calvin Williams, DT Ken Kushner, DE Dennis Dotson, CB Derrick Kelson 
Key Returnees: LG Derick Schmidt, C Bob Dressel, RG Jason Cegielski, QB Eric Hunter, RB Jerome Sparkman, RB Tony Vinson, LE Frank Kmet, L T Jeff Zgonina, LB Eric Beatty, LB Darrin Trieb, CB Steve Jackson, SS Terry Johnson, FS Nat Martin, PK Larry Sullivan, SE Abe Hoskins, FL Rob Dennis 
Opening Game: Sept. 15 vs. Washington Series with Notre Dame: Notre Dame leads 38-21-2 
STANFORD 
Date, Place: Oct. 6 in Notre Dame Stadium Coach: Dennis Green (3-8 in one year) 1989 Recap: 3-8 (3-5 in Pac 1Ol 
Key Losses: OG A. Papathanassiou, TE Jim Price, DT Lester Archambeau, SS Rob Englehardt, Cb Alan Grant, LB Rob Hinckley, LB Bruce Long 
Key Returnees: OT Darran Baird, OG Chuck Gillingham, OT Bob Whitfield, RB J.J. Lasley, WR Ed McCaffrey, C Rick Pallow, SE Jon Pickney, QB Steve Smith, Rb Tommy Vardell, Pk John Hopkins, DT Matt Borkowski, LB Dave Garnett, NG Aaron Rembisz, CB Albert Richardson, CB Kevin Scott, LB Jono Tunney, P Paul Stonehouse, LB Chris Hawkins, TE Turner Baur 
Opening Game: Sept. 6 at Colorado Series with Notre Dame: Notre Dame leads 5-1 
IR FORCE 
Date, Place: Oct. 13 in Notre Dame Stadium 
Coach: Fisher DeBerry (48-25-1 
in six years)  
1989  Recap:  8-4-1  (5-1-1  in  
Western  Athletic)  lost  42-29  to  
Mississippi in Liberty Bowl  




Gary Moeller 
MICHIGAN STATE 
Date, Place: Sept. 22 in Spartan Stadium Coach: George Perles (46-33-2 in seven years) 
1989 Recap: 8-4 (6-2 Big Ten), 33-13 victory over Hawaii in Aloha Bowl 
Key Losses: OT Bob Kula, FB Steve Montgomery, TB Blake Ezor, DE Matt Vanderbeek, DT Tim Ridinger, DT Travis Davis, DE Chris Willertz, LB Percy Snow, CB Ventson Donelson, SS Harton Barnett 
Jeff Pearson 
Key Returnees: FL Courtney Hawkins, LG Eric Moten, C Jeff Pearson, RG Matt Keller, Rt Jim Johnson, TE Duane Young, QB Dan Enos, WR James Bradley, PK John Langeloh, LB Carlos Jenkins, LB 

THE FONDUE 
PARLOR 
Enjoy one of Michiana's most unique dining experiences. With the purchase of ony entree receive 1free soft drink. Offer good to oil ND students ond faculty. 
~..
...btm. (219)255-1526 
100 Center,Mishawaka 

WHO: The Class of 1991 





SENIOR 

WHEN: September 3rd-21st 
WHERE: 3rd Floor of LaFortune 
WHY: To Be In The 1991 Dome 
SIGN UP AUGUST 28th-31st NORTH DINING HALL SOUTH DINING HALL AND LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK 

I
I 
I Tuesday, August 28, 1990 1990 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL OPPONENTS page 25 
Key Losses: QB Dee Dowis, HB Greg Lewis. LB Randle Gladney 
Key Returnees: LB Brian Hill, Cb Eric Faison. FB Rodney Lewis, K Joe Wood. LB J.T. Tokish, C Paul Walski, HB Chris Howard. FL Darryl Woods 
Opening Game: Sept. 1 vs. Colorado State Series with Notre Dame: Notre Dame leads 15-4 
MIAMI 

Date, Place: Oct. 20 in Notre Dame Stadium Coach: Dennis Erickson (11-1 in one year) 1989 Recap: 11-1. 33-25 victory over Alabama in Sugar Bowl 

Maurice Crum 

Key Losses: OG Rod Holder, C Bobby Garcia, FL Dale Dawkins. DE Greg Mark, DT Cortez Kennedy, DE Willis Peguese, LB Rick Newbill, LB Bernard Clark 
Key Returnees: WR Randal Hill, OT Mike Sullivan. OG Darren Handy, OT Leon Searcy, TE Rob Chudzinski, QB Craig Erickson. FB Leonard Conley, TB Wesley Carroll, DT Russell Maryland, LB Maurice Crum, SS Hurlie Brown, FS Charles Pharms, CB Roland Smith, DE Shane Curry, LB Michael Barrow, LB Darrin Smith, FB Steve McGuire 
Opening Game: Sept. 8 vs. BYU Series with Notre Dame: Notre Dame leads 14-7-1 
PITTSBURGH 
Date, Place: Oct. 27 in Pitt Stadium Coach: Paul Hackett (first full season. 1-0 last year) 
1989 Recap: 8-3-1, 31-28 victory over Texas A&M in John Hancock Bowl 
Key Losses: OG Dean Caliguire, OG Chris Goetz. OT Roman Matusz, WR Henry Tuten, CB Alonzo Hampton, SE Reggie Williams 

Keith llamilton, LB · Ricardo McDonald, LB Curtis Bray, LB Nelson Walker, S Louis Riddick, Lb Craig Gob, TE Lionel Sykes 
Opening Game: Sept. 1 vs. Ohio University Series with Notre Dame: Notre Dame leads 34-16-1 
NAVY 
Date, Place: Nov. 3 in Giants Stadium Coach: George Chaump (first 
season) 
1989 Recap: 3-8 
Key Losses: WR Shane Smith, OG Mike Maier, OT Mike Kircher, HB James Bradley, LB David Lowe, DT Greg Reppar, DT Scott Prinz, DB Steve Tazza, DB Bob Weissenfels 

Alton Grizzard 
Key Returnees: OT Greg Hlatky. OG Carl Voss, C Bob Friedman. TE Dave Berghult. QB Alton Grizzard, HB Rodney Purifoy, FB Kwame Moultrie, MG Andy Kirkland, LB Tony Domino. LB Bill Bowling, LB Beau Laskey, DB Scott Carson. DB 


MISHAWAKA/SOUTH BEND 
5505 GRAPE ROAD 
OPEN DAILY 9:30 to 9 SUNDAY 11·5 

AMERICA'S LARGEST CARPET SPECIALTY 115 OUTLETS 

Chris Cordero, WR Jerry Dawson, FL B.J. Mason Opening Game: Sept. 8 vs. Richmond Series with Notre Dame: 53-9-1 
TENNESSEE 

Date, Place: Nov. 10 in Neyland Stadium Coach: Johnny Majors (93-54-6 in 13 years) 
1989 Recap: 11-1 (6-1 in SEC) 31-27 victory over Arkansas in Cotton Bowl 
Key Losses: OG Eric Still, SE Thomas Woods, DE Marion Hobby, DT Martin Williams, DE Tracy Hayworth 
Key Returnees: TE Mark Adams, LT Charles McRae, LG Tom Myslinski, C John Fisher, Rt Antone Davis. QB Andy Kelly, WB Alvin Harper, TB Chuck Webb, FB Roland Poles, LT Mark Moore, Lb Kacy Rodgers, LB Shazzon Bradley, LB Darryl Hardy, CB J.J. McCleskey, CB Keith Denson, SS Kelly Days, FS Carl Pickens. RB Greg Amsler, LB Shon Walker, DT Carey Bailey 
Opening Game: Aug. 26 at Colorado 
Series with Notre Dame: tied 1-1 

Chuck Webb 
PENN STATE 

Date, Place: Nov. 17 if' Notre Dame Stadium Coach: Joe Paterno (220-57 -3 in 24 years) 1989 Recap: 8-3-1, 50-39 victory over BYU in Holiday Bowl 
Key Losses: C Roger Duffy, T Tim Freeman, TB Blair Thomas, TE Dave Jakob, OG Dave Scott, LB Brian Chizmar, LB Andre Collins, DERich Schonewolf, S Sherrod Rainge 
Key Returnees: WR David Daniels, T Matt McCartin, WR Terry Smith, QB Terry Sacca, FB Leroy Thompson, G Sean Love, CB Hernon Henderson, CB Willie Thomas, LB Mark D'Onofrio, DE Frank Giannetti, H Gary Brown, LB Reggie Givens. NT Todd Burger, QBTom Bill, WR O.J. McDuffie, WR Terry Smith 
Opening Game: Sept. 8 vs. Texas Series with Notre Dame: Notre Dame leads 7-6-1 
usc 

Date, Place: Nov. 24 in Los Angeles Coliseum Coach: Larry Smith (27 -8-1 in three years) 1989 Recap: 9-2-1 (6-0-1 in Pac 
10) 17-10 victory over Michigan in Rose Bowl 
Key Losses: S Mark Carrier, TE Scott Galbraith, FB Leroy Holt, SE John Jackson, C Brad Leggett, OG Brent Parkinson, OT Bill Schultz, DT Tim Ryan. LB Delmar Chesley, S Cleveland Colter, CB Dwayne Garner, DG Dan Owens, LB Junior Seau, CB Ernest Spears, LB Michael Williams 
Key Returnees: QB Todd Marinovich, TB Ricky Ervins, OT Pat Harlow. OG Mark Tucker, FL Gary Wellman, K Quin Rodriguez, NG Gene Fruge. LB Scott Ross, LB Curt Barber 
Opening Game: Aug. 31 vs. Syracuse Series with Notre Dame: Notre Dame leads 34-23-4 

specialists in pro bikes is welcoming students back to school by taking 10% of1 a full selection of 1990 bikes and summer clothing. 
Mon-Fri 10 am-7 pm Sat 9am-5pm on N. Ironwood Dr. (between S.R. 23 and Edison) 272-0129 
HELP WANTED!! 
Multiple student positions are open for Fall/Spring Semesters in Information Services, Department of User Services, Office of University Computing. 
Documentation Students: Need 2 documentation students who will be responsible for writing introductory user guides to specified computer software products. Extensive knowledge in at least one of the following Macintosh software packages is required: PageMaker, Excel, WordPerfect, Hypercard. Strong writing skills a must. 
Editing Student: Extensive writing/editing background is required for this position. Experience using Macintosh, PageMaker, MSWord and graphics software is preferred. 
Publications Graphic Designer/Layout Student: Heavy graphic arts background with experience using Macintosh graphics software (particularly, 
Adobe lllustrator) is ideal. Responsible for graphic design and layout of OUC 
publications. 
Graphic Designer: Strong graphic arts background with experience using Macintosh graphics software packages. Responsible for OUC graphic design 
projects which includes computer screen design for special presentations. 
Multimedia Student: In search of a student to conduct multimedia product 
evaluations (includes audio, video,' animation, text and graphics products), 
develops multimedia presentations and assists in maintaining the OUC's 
Multimedia Lab. Programming on the Macintosh with knowledge of 
Macintosh authoring languages recommended. 
Office Students: Students needed to staff the business office. Computer, 
typing, filing and general office experience required. Need to have a good 
phone personality and strong organizational skills. 
Applications for Employment may be picked up from Denis Lindquist, Room GOOl in the basement of the Computing Center /Math Building. 
-
'­
? 
VISA 
-
-
l. 

-------~-------~ 
page 26 Tuesday, August 28, 1990
The Observer 
ump, give us a break 
AP Photo 

Cleveland Manager John McNamara had a lot to complain about in last night's 12-4 loss to Boston. 
'1 lan on doin~ my resume on my Mac. An making Maantosh part ofmy resume." Bob Reich Sophomore Accounting Major Univenity of Notre Dame There's a lot more to an Applet time-and for not-so-serious stuff, too. Macintoshit computer than just something to Having my own Macintosh is a big plus make a resume look good. Sure, it's got the now, and I know it'll give me an edge in the real capability to improve the look of practically any world, too. I'll be able to interface my Mac with document. But once you get beyond Macintosh mainframes and MS-DOS® computers and still as just an elegant fonnatting tool, you begin to have the ease-()f-use that Macintosh is famous understand why it's becoming so widely for. And that'll make me work better for accepted in the business world. My Mac® can whoever I work for. crunch numbers with the best of them. It just Macintosh is going to make my resume plain makes me more efficient in everything look better-in more ways than one. I do. That frees me up for serious book NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE Office of University Computing Computing Cenl.er/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00 Appk, the Appk logo, Macintosh, Dnd Mac Dre registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. MS-DOS Is D registered trademark oftbe Microsoft Corpormlon.  

AP Photo
Shutout 

-
The Chicago White Sox were blanked 7-0 by Allan Anderson and the Minnesota Twins last night in Minneapolis (see story, page 30) 
•******************j
iC  The Main Laundromat  iC  
:  -l51S North Main Street  :  
iC  Mishawaka  iC  
~ ~ ~ •  Houe>?3§,9q-J?~ ?1~, "'' 1 e~'-p.,'?~i!:~;_.§~;;~CA1t1 i · ·~.• -~ '-*' """ 1; :~ :. J ,;..,-< ""'· i.. ',., ~ ....... -~­"''-·; ~· ': •.~ !l ''-''­'•  ~ ~ ~ •  
iC iC  Mon. +Fri. :FREE Tide in every wash Every Day : Drop-off-$.40 per pound Thursday :Tanning-$3.00 per session  iCiC iC  
~ iC  Convenient pick-up and delivery to your dorm room. Dorm discounts available.  iC iC  

******************* 

PA.TiirS 
GOURMET BURGERS & ICE CREAM 
DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR 
3602 Grape Road ··Mishawaka, IN 255-5525 
~------------T------------~
: Dinner for 2 : Sundae : 
: $899 Sa;l~~er: 99¢. : 

I For I I I Pick any two Gourmet Sandwiches, I Buy any size sundae and I 1 two Garden Salads, plus your choice of I receive a second one of the I r-rench Fries or Onion Rings and 2 1 ~· f 99• I
I Mini-Sundaes. same ,,Ize or I 9/9/90 I 9/9/90 I 
~------------~--------·---~ 
----~--------~ -~­
Tuesday, August28, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS Anyone interested in trying out for the wrestling team should meet at Coach Fran McCann's office Friday at 3:30p.m. on the second floor of the JACC, near the pool. 
Interested new sportswriters for the Observer should attend a meeting with the sports staff Wednesday at 
7:30 p.m. at the Observer office. For more information call Greg Guffey at the Observer at 239-5303. 
A mandatory varsity lacrosse meeting will be held Wednesday at 5 p.m. in the Loftus Auditorium. 
A women's tennis walk-on tournament will begin Friday. Anyone interested should call Maureen McNamara at 239-5149. 
The 1990 WVFI sports staff will meet tonight at 9 
p.m. in the station lobby on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Contact Vic Lombardi at 283-2264. 
The 1990 Fall University Golf Championship will take place Sept. 8th, 9th, 16th & 23rd. It is open to any­one in the Notre Dame community, but it is also an open tryout for the men's and women's varsity golf teams. The entry fee is $5 and the entry deadline is Monday, Sept. 3 at 5 
p.m. Entry forms are available in the golf pro shop. 
Do you have what it takes to reach over 12,000 people daily? 
If so, we want YOU! 
The Observer is looking for a few good people to work as writers, photographers, ad designers and representatives, as well as numerous other positions. If you're interested in working for the number one source of information for NotreDame and Saint Mary's, come visit our office on the 3rd Floor of LaFortune, call us at 239-5303, or watch our pages for more information on our exciting employment opportunities. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 

anema 
at 


the 


nite 
THE FINEST IN CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT 



&ifHHB •IIENRy V• 
ttotet&)lle 

Films shown every TUE. WED. FRI. SAT. 

Check your mailbox for your complete film calendar for the semester. Or pick one up at 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall or at the Snlte Museum. MY LEFT FOOT FRI & SAT AUG.31, SEPT. 1 7:30, 9:45 
page 27 

Line ­
continued from page 32 
with one interception. 
News continues to filter down after former Notre Dame line­man Steve Huffman's first-per­son article in Sports Illustrated in which he said there was widespread steroid use by Irish football players. 
In Sunday's Atlanta Constitution, columist Terence Moore says Notre Dame is among the few colleges that test for drug and steroid use. He cites Frank Uryasz, head of the NCAA's drug testing pro­gram, as saying that only 60 percent of Division 1 schools have any drug-testing program and only half of those test for steroids because it is extremely expensive. 
Moore writes, .if Huffman's steroid story is cor­rect, Notre Dame has spent thousands of dollars on testing so they can ignore the results. Makes sense to me." 
In an article in The Boston Globe, Will McDonough says that he talked with many top personnel men in the NFL and all said they never considered Notre Dame a "steroid school and that those who know say Holtz never came looking for a coaching job in the NFL at the conclusion of last season." 
McDonough further says that Ken Herock of the Atlanta Falcons, who was in charge of hiring a new coach, denied that Holtz had "ever in any way con­tacted the Falcons about their 
..

vacant coaching job that even­tually went to Jerry Glanville." 
Notre Dame is ranked second in the inaugural Associated Press poll behind defending na­tional champion Miami. Auburn, Florida State, Colorado, Michigan, Nebraska, Tennessee, Southern Cal and Clemson round out the first 10. 
The Irish will meet seven of the top 25 teams in the poll ­Miami, Michigan, Tennessee, Southern Cal, Pittsburgh, Penn 
Palin Dlah~•, La•a~~;t~a, 1-'•tlllrit~r, 
Maniroui, J·...,1, Ooo'~:kl'TI (',arcinln,..., 
(A-ktnila, RHr, lf'in~>, fl<VU(:•f'l fl~><nn. 
NEW SUNDAY HOURS: 4-9 P.M. 
---, D!NNER4 P.M.-11 P.M. f­
~19232:424ill4 ,'j 
South of Notre Dame's Golden Dome~ 
1412 South Bend Avenue , 

.,_,~~-/;/, 1 , ~\!) 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

Irish quad-captain Ricky Watters carries the ball in Saturday's scrimmage. 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS! 
Look your best all year with $8 haircuts. We are walking distance from campus. Call for an appointment. (Walk-ins welcome) 

Edison Rd. at S.R. 23 
277-0057 

--~-~~-~---~~---------~! 
-
page 28 The Observer 
AP Photo
Keep your eye on the ball 
Steve Sax and the much-improved Yankees shut out Baltimore last night by a 4-0 score. 


Hero 
continued from page 32 
whomever we choose," Thompson said. "The Country Club is our home and we pick and choose who we want." 
He also added that at Shoal Creek, "we don't discriminate in every other area except the blacks." 
As horrible as his statements were, they brought to light a huge national problem regard­ing admission of blacks and minorities into country clubs. Let's hope that those crass but candid words result in a far­reaching reform which allows equal access to Country Clubs across the country. 

Unitedway 
ltbrin~ 

out the 
best in all of us. 
,., c.tuUi 
Serving
PANCAKE ND/SMC 
Students

HOUSE 
for 25 years
~­
Welcome Back Notre Dame & Saint Mary's Students 
Open 7Days A Week at 6:00A.M. 

r----------------------·
1 Oven Baked I I APPLE PANCAKES :I $1 OFF Expires 
11

1 10-31-90 
1 per order J 
~----------------------~ 
I Oven Baked 1I 4 EGG JUMBO OMELETTES I J $1 OFF Expires 1 
J per order 10-31-90 J 
1----------------------~ 
U.S. 31 Noreh in RoHland .· · (AcroNI'I'olll The HoUday IDD) 2.12,.7433 
Just North Of Campus Tuesday, August 28, 1990 

llli.Oiti ·IIJGIAU
•
CHICAGO 
MOTOR 
CLUB 

John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative 
New Memberships or Transfers Auto & Property Insurance 
AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 5922 GRAPE ROAD INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 




Ihenbserxer. 
th< ind•p•,.>d•.onl w.J.nt ......,.,.per "'rving notre da""' ond saint m.uv's 
is currently looking for interested people to fill the following position: 
Viewpoint Copy Editor 
All students are encouraged to apply. If interested, submit a 1-page personal statement and resume to Michelle Dall at The Observer office (239-5303) by 5 p.m. Friday, August 31. 
This Is NoWay To Take Your 
LSAT. 

j j J If you've set your sights on law school, there's no better l.SAT preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our 15AT prep will open your eyes with score-raising strategies and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material is based on the "new" lSAT. And you can review lessons, and get additional help as needed in our TEST-N-li\PE" lab, open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. And watch the scales tip in your favm: 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PHONE 219/272-4135 RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 

' 

~--~--­
Tuesday, August28, 1990 The Observer page 29 

Cavanaugh leads Eagles past Colts for 17·-16 win 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Matt score, and frankly I hope they Cavanaugh may have forced do. I hope t}Jey take us too Philadelphia coach Buddy Ryan lightly. to rethink his roster plans. "I feel we really closed the 
"We might have to go with gap appreciably," Meyer said. three quarterbacks," Ryan said Indianapolis (0-3), using Monday night after the 33-rookie quarterback Gene year-old Cavanaugh led a Benhart in the final period, was fourth-quarter rally by the unable to move the ball and Eagles for a 17-16 victory over gave up possession at the the Indianapolis Colts. Philadelphia 18 with five min­
"We may have to cut short utes to go. Cavanaugh then hit the defensive safeties or some-four of five passes, taking the thing. Matt did a good job," Eagles to the Indianapolis 16, said Ryan, who earlier this before Ruzek's fourth-down summer signed Jim McMahon field goal gave them the victory. as a backup to Randall "He's a 13-year veteran," Cunningham. Meyer said of Cavanaugh. "The 
Cavanaugh, a 13-year NFL quarterback we had in there veteran, completed nine of 10 can't count to 13; he's not 13 passes for 109 yards and set up years old." a touchdown and then Roger Benhart, who's actually 23, Ruzek's winning 33-yard field hit one of five passes and was goal with 1:56 to play. sacked once in the Colts' final 
"The Colts played with emo-two possessions. 
r·

tion. We didn't play well," Ryan Cavanaugh hit four straight said. "Just well enough to win. passes for 54 yards on his first We didn't look good." series as the Eagles (2-1) rat­
Indianapolis coach Ron lied from a 16-7 deficit in the Meyer, who also used a third-final period. string quarterback in the A pass interference penalty in fourth quarter, wasn't as the end zone gave Philadelphia gloomy as Ryan, even with the the ball at the 1 and Robert loss. Drummond scored on the next 
"It was a fairly acceptable play, cutting the Colts' lead to football game," Meyer said. 16-14 with 10:34 remaining in "Too many people are going to the game. put too much emphasis on the Jack Trudeau, still fighting 
for 113 yards and a 4-yard touchdown to Ken Clark mid­way through the third quarter for Indianapolis. 
George, the overall No. 1 pick in the draft, gave the Colts an early lead with a 1-yard touch­
Keep your 
down pass to Pat Beach late in the first quarter and finished with 153 yards on 11 comple­tions. 
"I don't see a great urgency to name a starting quarter­
roommates 
back," Meyer said. "They're both progressing." 
The Colts led 9-0 on George's pass to Beach and Dean Biasucci's 23-yard field goal 58 seconds into the second quarter
in line. Call 
before Jim McMahon's 9-yard touchdown pass to Maurice Johnson with 4:31 left in the half cut the deficit to two points. 
McMahon, who signed with
1800 654-0471. 
Philadelphia as a free agent, entered the game in relief of Cunningham midway through the second quarter. 
Trudeau went 4-for-4 for 64 yards in the Colts' final scoring drive, hitting Clark for the touchdown and a 16-7 lead. 
The Colts had two chances to increase their lead before half­time but turned the ball over both times. 
The first came when George was intercepted by lzel Jenkins at the Eagles' 20. After an un­successful fake punt and fourth-down run by Terry Hoage gave the Colts the ball at Philadelphia's 40 in the closing seconds, rookie Anthony Johnson fumbled a pass recep­tion at the Eagles' 19, keeping the halftime lead at 9-7. 
It's never much fun figuring out who about the StudentSaverPlusprograms that are 
made what call on your phone bill. But we right for you, call us at 1 800 654-0471 Ext. 
can help with A1&I'CallManager. It's just one 1229. And put your roommates in their place. 
part of a whole program of products and ser­
vices called A1&I'StudentSaz:erPlus. XI&T. Helping make collegelife alittle easier. A1&I'CallManagerwill automatically separate your long distance calls from the ones your roommates make. And well do it An-T Join the for free. All you have to do is dial asimple mde. 
To enroll in AI&FCallManageror to learn The right choice. 
Knights of 
This service may not be available in residence halls on your campus. 
Columbus 






Anderson silences Sox, critics in Twins' triumph 
Minnesota hurler throws third straight complete game, allowing four hits in shutout of Chicago 
UTILITY CART 

MINNEAPOLIS (AP) Anyone wondering what hap­pened to the outstanding pitch­ing form of Minnesota's Allan Anderson doesn't have to look any further than the pitching mound. 
"Old Andy never went any­where," Anderson said after shutting out the Chicago White Sox 7-0 on four hits Monday night. 
A year ago, Anderson was 17­10 but his current 6-16 record has the twins scratching their heads. 
After Gene Larkin hit a three­run homer in the first inning there was never any question that Anderson looked like the pitcher of a yea~: ago. 
"He made great pitches," Chicago manager Jeff Torborg said. "He pitched like he had 16 wins instead of 16 losses. His inside strike caught people looking and he had great de­fensive plays behind him." 
Anderson has three complete 
games in a row but can't put a 
finger on any one thing for his 
sudden improvement. 
"It's just a manner of minor 
adjustments of everything," he 
said. "The only thing I need to 
control is to stay within myself, 
and I've been doing that lately. 
"When you come up with 


.­
DRIVE STRAIGHT,
INDIANA. 
ARE YOU 
GONNALET 
ABUNCH OF 
HALF-WITS 
TURN OUR 
PUBLIC 
LANDS INTO 
APUBLIC 
DISGRACE? 
If you wnre ro U'i, we'll teU you ru1-=--:/ now ~·ou can help stop abuse of our .::'~===: 
;:>ubhclanJ~. _ 
~nre:TakePndem:\menca, ­P 0 Box 1339, Jessup, .\10 20794 ~ -:. 
BAD GUYS ABUSE PUBUC LAND. GOOD GUYS SAVE IT. 

Larkin hit an RBI single to tie his career high of four RBis in a game. Liriano had an RBI single in the seventh and Larkin tripled in the eighth and scored on a double by Gagne. 
The White Sox' best threat came in the fifth inning when Scott Fletcher and Craig Grebeck singled with two out. Anderson retired Ozzie Guillen on a grounder. 
first start at the Metrodome since being called up in 1984. He has a sore left hamstring. Puckett has a nine-game hitting streak (13-for-~5 ..371. For the season he his hitting .301 ... The Twins have hit just 10 home runs in August. The club low for a month is six in September 1978 ... Chicago rookie Frank Thomas has walked 10 times in the last seven games and has hit in 11 three runs in the first inning it's very important to set the tone. We had something to work with, and it worked out well." 

Anderson struck out five and walked two en route to his third career shutout. The Twins, who supported Anderson with only 32 runs in his 16 losses, have scored 37 in his six victories. 
Loser Melido Perez (11-12) hits in 7 1-3 innings as the White Sox fell 5 1/2 games be­hind idle first-place Oakland in the American League West. 
With two out in the Minnesota first, Kent Hrbek singled, Gary Gaetti walked and Larkin hit his fifth home run of the season. 
The Twins got two more runs in the third inning. Dan Gladden singled and scored on Nelson Liriano's triple. After 
Maple Lane BarberShop 2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 

Tuesday, August28, 1990 
The Observer page 31 
CAMPUS 

Tuesday 
Noon to 1 p.m. Sidewalk Circus, Fieldhouse Mall, sponsored by the Center for Social Conc'erns. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Welcome back picnic Hamburgers Polish Sausage Home Style Chicken Sandwich Corn on the Cob 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"Voo-hoo! Oh, yoo-hoo! ... llhlnk I'm geHing a blister." CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Devils or Saints, &3 Corner e.g.
1 Opposite of &4 Turns to the e'en right
34 Hoss's dad 
5 Mall and Tajo of 37 Musical request &5 Famous 

the Met of 1889 

middleman of 10 Incautious 41 Beige baseball 14 Salmagundi 42 Elegant bash 
&& Pop 15 African 43 With 1 0 Down, antelope Potter character 
DOWN
1&--mater 44 Shelve 17 Musical request 4& Pal 1 Unruly throngs of 1934 
47 Minestrone 2 Sevilla stewpot 20 Glut 
veggies 3 Very funny 21 Retaliate; 49-· avis fellow 
avenge 51 Quick looks 4"-lay,me22 Monocle part down ...

54"--this!"
24 Sty cry 5 Defeated 

59 Musical request of1928 &V.P. Barkley 25 Boatman of 
myth 29 Set firmly &1 Annul 7 Pat-riotic org. 32 Boring &2 Jeweler's a Small piece implement weight 
9 Notion 
------------10 See 43 Across ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Poe-tic middle 
name 12 Artistic cover-up? 13 Peddle 
vociferously 1Bin great number 19 City on the 
Sa6ne 23 Elementary text 25 Threw out 2& Word with hoop 
or skirt 27 Not "fer" 28 Roulette space 30 "-, Lucille," 
1919 musical 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 



31 A Vanderbilt 33 Freshwater 
duck 34 Take the bait 35 Paradise 36 Twerp's cousin 38 Soviet agcy. 39 Spread out 40 Luau souvenir 44 Latin·American 
dances 45 He wrote "The Nazarene" 
SPELUNKER 


4& Areas of activity 55 Bowlers or sailors
47 Level 56 Large kangaroo 
48 --Cologne 57 Like sharp 
50 Sad at 
c!li!ese 51 Gurgling sound 
58 Actress 52"-Homo," Perlman of Titian painting "Cheers" 
53 Croat, e.g. &O Crude metal 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER· 


Those ofus here at the Student Union Board would like to extend a sincere WELCOME to the Class of1994. Notre Dame/Saint Mary's CoUege is indeed a specialplace! 
•

We would also like to Welcome back everyone returningfrom a very short summer! We've got an intense year awaiting us since SUB has been busy making arrangements for this year's line-up ofbig name entertainment. 
However, in order to start this year offright, An Tostal, ND/SMC's annual spring festival, is sponsoring THE SHIRT, an event whereby the entire student body wiU 
show our Fightin~ Irish unity/support by wearing a keUy green T-shirt to the Notre 
Dame vs. Michigan FootbaU game on September 15th. See thefuU page ad in this 
issue ofThe Observer for details on how you can become an integralpart ofanother fanatical year ofNotre Dame FootbaiU ­
I 
i
• I 
1 

Sports
page 32 Tuesday, August 28, 1990 
Holtz says line will be fine under direction of Moore 
By GREG GUFFEY this fall's Notre Dame squad, is Sports Editor a strong All-America candidate. While the Irish do not have Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz proven talent, they do have knows his defensive line will be depth. Gene McGuire, Winston good, if not intimidating. Sandri, Mirko Jurkovic, Justin 
The biggest question mark Hall and Joe Allen have all seen right now could be the offensive substantial amounts of playing line, a unit which lost three time. starters from last year's team. McGuire spent the spring
Gone are standouts Tim playing center when Heldt Grunhard, Dean Brown and missed all of the workouts with Mike Brennan. Grunhard was a a dislocated elbow. Sandri second-round pick of the played more minutes than anyKansas City Chiefs, Brown was other non-starting tackle in selected by the Indianapolis 1989, and Jurkovic, Grunhard's Colts and Brennan was a backup, saw more playing time fourth-round pick of" the than any non-starting lineman. Cincinnati Bengals. Those three Hall played in 10 games last players started all 13 games season as a sophomore after for Notre Dame in 1989. spraining an ankle in the first 
But Holtz is not about to day of full pads, while Allen has push the panic button, despite more than 100 career minutes losing those talented linemen. including time in all 13 games He is confident that offensive last fall. line coach Joe Moore will Several others will compete assemble a talented and pro­for playing time, including se­ductive unit before the Sept. 15 nior Brian Shannon, seniors opener with Michigan. Joe Allen and junior Lindsay The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
"I know Coach Moore," Holtz Knapp. 
Raghib Ismail (25) elu~es the grasp of ~everal defenders in Saturday's intrasquad scrimmage. Ismail is one
said after practice Monday. Holtz and the Irish are in a 
of the few bnght spots 1n an offense whtch has been unimpressive to this point in the tall. 

"Coach Moore has never had a unique situation this fall. When bad offensive line. I don't ex­Tony Rice was an inexperienced Rick Mirer set to start his first pect this year to be any differ­sophomore quarterback in game against Michigan, both ent." 1987, he had a veteran offen­units will be inexperienced on 
Center Mike Heldt and guard sive line. When Rice was the the playing field. Tim Ryan were standouts on veteran the following season, • • • last season's line, which al­the offensive line was young. In One thing Notre Dame missed lowed Irish backs to gain more 1989, the whole offense was Saturday in its first scrimmage than 287 yards per game. loaded with veterans. was the leadership of Rice. Heldt, one of four captains on With sophomore quarterback "I know the problem is lead-
You're outta there AP Photo 
Rob Deer and the Milwaukee Brewers weren't kept out for long in yesterday's 4-2 win over Toronto. 
IU edges Irish in Golden Boot 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team lost a close 1-0 scrim­mage to powerful Indiana on Saturday in a tuneup for its September 1 season opener against Dayton. 
Chad Deering scored from 20 yards out to lead the Hoosiers to victory in Saturday's Golden Boot Soccer Match, played in Indianapolis. 
"We played one of the best teams in the country tonight

-
and they scored a brilliant goal," said first-year Irish coach Mike Berticelli after his team's second scrimmage of the fall. 

"Indiana had an advantage in maturity and they played like an experienced team. I saw some things in our guys that encouraged me, but my main concern is that we are a better team in September than we are right now." 
Indiana, who also hosts Notre Dame on September 28, is one of four teams on the Irish schedule that appeared in last fall's NCAA tournament. The Irish play Duke on September 7, Saint Louis on September 14 and Evansville on October 22. 
Notre Dame has a history of success against Dayton, going 6-1-1 against the Flyers in a series dating back to 1977. Last season, the Irish defeated Dayton 5-1 in a home match. 
The Flyers return eight starters from last year's 8-13-1 squad, including three leading scorers. Junior forward Brady O'Toole led Dayton with five goals last season. Also return­ing are sophomore midfielder Jim Hafner and defender Steve Michel, the Flyers' Most Valuable Player in '89. 
Notre Dame closes its pre­season schedule with a final home scrimmage against Central Michigan on Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
ership, chemistry and together-for 142 yards, but 79 of those ness on offense," Holtz said. yards came on a pass comple­"You don't replace a guy like tion to Raghib Ismail. Tony Rice. He just tied that Freshman Kevin McDougal was whole offense together. That's 8-of-12 for 112 yards, while really lacking now. That will freshman B.J. Hawkins con-have to come." nected on just 1-of-7 attempts 
In Saturday's scrimmage, Mirer completed 6-of-16 passes see LINE 1 page 27 
Heroes and villains abound in a brief review of summer 
After suffering through an entire summer without a public forum, I've returned to offer my unsolicited opinions to whoever bothers to read this column. What better way to start the new academic year than by ridiculing the sports vil1ains of the past summer and congratulat­ing some of the heroes as well? Ken Tysiac 

World of Sports

Topping this summer's villain list are Pete Rose and George Steinbrenner. Fortunately, justice was served in both men's cases, as Rose went to jail for tax evasion and Steinbrenner was essentially banned from baseball by Commissioner Fay Vincent. 
In the end, though, Rose and Steinbrenner at least were honorable enough to accept their punishments without a lot of fuss. 
Meanwhile, golfer Hale Irwin sits atop the list of heroes. Golf can be a prettY dull sport at times. but the 45-year-old Irwin displayed youthful exuberance as he high-fived and danced his way to a victory in the U.S. Open in mid-June. Irwin's antics earned him at least one fan as he became the oldest man to win the Open. 
Coach George T. Loy of a Willow Springs. Ill., Little League baseball team didn't win any fans when he attacked oppos­ing coach John Hills with a bat. Loy set such a marvelous example for his 13-15 year-old players that he was arrested on two counts of battery. Hills, who suffered fractured ribs and a broken nose, claimed, "It's just a game ... " 
It's too bad Hills didn't have a chance to talk to 40-year­old Sayed Abdel-Al of Egypt. Abdel-Al hanged himself when Egypt was eliminated from World Cup soccer competition in a 1-0 loss to England. His suicide note wished Egypt good luck in the 1994 World Cup. Meanwhile, the few Americans who tuned in to TNT's World Cup broadcasts nearly died of boredom. 
On a more pleasant note, give a gold star to the Edmonton Oilers for proving that they are still pretty good without Wayne Gretzky by winning the Stanley Cup against Boston in five games. Bill Hanford proved that Edmonton's goaltend­ing is still sensational without Grant Fuhr as he stopped all but eight of Boston's 156 shots in the Finals en route to winning the Conn Smythe trophy as Most Valuable Player of the playoffs. 
Thirty-six-year-old Dutchman Arie Luyendyk also proved himself by winning the Indianapolis 500 on May 27 with a record average speed of 185.984 miles per hour. Luyendyk surprised everybody as he outran Emerson Fittipaldi and Bobby Rahal to capture the Indy flag. 
Last on the villain/hero list is somebody who fits into both categories. Hall Thompson of Shoal Creek Country Club in Birmingham, Ala. sent shock waves across the nation when he told a reporter that his private club discriminates against blacks. 
"We have the right to associate or not to associate with 
see HERO I page 28 











