

VOL. XXIII NO. 78 TUESDAY , JANUARY 30, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush presents 1991 budget 
Bush says budget cuts the deficit in half 


Supreme Court decision unlocks confidential peer reviews 



DEFICIT PROJECTIONS 
Bush budget deficits or surplus projections compared with Congressional estimates and targets mandated by the Gramm-Rudman Act. 

L---------------1 ers outmoded and, on the other 
Sources: OMB. CBO 
AP hand, to preserve some expen-
By MONICA YANT 
News Writer 
Editor's Note: This is the first in a two-part series 
Universities can be forced to disclose confidential peer re­view files in cases charging dis­crimination in the tenure pro­cess, said the U.S. Supreme Court in an early January deci­sion. 
The court held that the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) has the right to procure the evaluations of persons being denied tenure, 
documents from applicants to
Director of Financial Aid Joe Russo shows sophomores Carol Ruff and Wendy Shields how to fill out their Fi­
verify and clarify financial cir­
nancial Aid Forms (FAF). Notre Dame, as well as the government, uses the FAF in its financial aid process. 
cumstances. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush on Monday sent Congress a $1.23 trillion budget for fiscal 1991 that keeps new spending below inflation and recognizes "remarkable changes" in the world by scal­ing back defense and rewarding emerging democracies. 
Bush called the spending plan an "investment in the future," but Democrats in Congress pounced on it as not bold enough on defense cuts and too harsh on social programs. They also disputed the presi­dent's contention that his bud­get would halve the deficit, to $63.1 billion, saying its eco­nomic assumptions were too optimistic. 
"This is a take-two-aspirin and call-me-in-the-morning budget," said Rep. Leon Panetta, D-Calif.. chairman of the House Budget Committee, which opens hearings on the new budget on Tuesday. 
Fights loomed with the Democratic-controlled Congress on a range of fronts: Bush's desire to cut Medicare and capital gains taxes, to close military bases he consid­
and those vying for the same tenure, in cases where sexual or racial discrimination has been charged, according to Jus­tice Harry Blackmun's majority opinion in the case University of Pennsylvania v. Equal Em­ployment Opportunity Commis­sion (Jan. 9, 1990). 
The University of Pennsylva­nia, in denying the release of confidential peer review mate­rials, sought to require the Commission to prove a particu­lar necessity of access, beyond relevance, before the materials would be disclosed. 
sive weapons. 
Bush would increase spending on space, education, the envi­ronment and the war on drugs. Losers, this year, are Medicare, college student loans, farm subsidies, energy conservation and mass transit. 
The president's budget for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 calls for $36.5 billion in spending cuts and other deficit­reduction measures. 
It projects a 7 percent in­crease in revenues, to $1.17 trillion, without a general tax increase and just a 3 percent boost in overall spending ­more than a percentage point below the current rate of infla­tion. 
Bush proposed defense spending of $292.1 billion, a cut of 2 percent measured against inflation; while boost­ing foreign aid to Eastern Eu-­rope, the Philippines and Latin America. 
On the domestic front, his 
budget would leave in place the 
Social Security tax increase 
that took effect earlier this 
month. But it honors Bush's 
1988 campaign pledge . to pro-

see BUDGET I page 5 Source: Office of Management and Budget AP/T. Dean Caple 

Tung argued that her qualiti­cations were "equal to or better than" her five male faculty competitors. She charged that the the University's Personal Committee justified their deci­sion "on the ground that the Wharton School is not inter­
The case of Rosalie Tung, a ested in China-related re­Chinese-American professor, search," said the decision. The charged that the University of Wharton School is the Univer­Pennsylvania unfairly denied sity of Pennsylvania's graduate her tenure because of her sex school of business. and race. Tung took her com­Tung claimed that the expla­plaint to the EEOC, who then nation was basis for discrimi­investigated whether her argu-· nation. It was "simply their way ment was valid. of saying they do not want a 
Delivery process for financial aid complex 

By JANICE O'LEARY 
Assistant News Editor 
Editor's note: this is the sec­ond of a five-part series 
An important part of the fi­
nancial aid process is the deliv­
ery system, according to Direc­
tor of Financial Aid Joe Russo. 
The delivery system is the 
process of "students applying 
for aid, being reviewed for it, 
and eventually getting the funds 
for which he or she applied," 
Russo said. 
"Such a process typically could take months, and for 1Notre Dame students it begins 
now," he said. 
Notre Dame's process, unlike 
many colleges', does not require 
a separate institutional 
application. The financial aid 
office, however, does reserve 
the right to request additional 

Financial Aid 

The process begins by first filling out and turning in the application. "An analysis with a figure at the bottom, which is a preliminary estimate of sup­posedly what a family can af­ford, is sent to the financial aid office from the College Scholar­ship Service (CSS). 
"The government receives data from the agency (CSS) and · sends it back to that initial agency with an okay. The CSS then sends a Student Aid Report (SAR) to the student," Russo said. 
Then a decision is made and the student told of it. The deci­sion often requires completing 
see FAF 1page 6 

Chmese-Amencan, Oriental woman in their school," she said in her charge. When the EEOC began its in­vestigation of Pennsylvania it 
requested various information, including peer review files of Tung and the five male faculty 
members mentioned in the charge. Pennsylvania, however, claimed First Amendment pro­tection from releasing the files on the basis of academic free­dom to keep the files confiden­tial. 
see FILES I page 6 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Beware perils of doing laundry off campus 
SincP. the UnivP.rsity so gmwrously hiked --------­
up the price of doing laundry on campus, my roommates and I have been postponing doing thP. mammoth job. 
Noticing that my 
dirty laundry had 
been growing like the Janice O'Leary 
federal budget delieit, Assistant News Editor 
I became determined 
to do it this weekP.nd. --------­
Being thP. cheapskates that we are, my 
roommate Betsy and I decided to go into 
South Bend and save 15 cents per load. 
Our excursion to the laundromat became 
quite an adventure. 
There we stood, amongst several people 
who looked as if they hadn't yet heard of 
the comb, in our last pairs of clean 
undt~rwear, at a total loss. 
We had finished putting all of our darks 
into one of those huge industrial washers 
(the kind big enough to put your bratty little 
cousin in) and we couldn't figure out how to 
put the detergent in. 
After observing one person of indetermi­
nate gender, we found the little hatch you 
pour the stuff through on the top. Pretty 
neat. 
Well, after awhile we began to think we 
were quite the laundromat experts, and we 
were saving money. Until the dryer incident. 
that is. 
We finished loading every article of 
clothing into the big industrial dryer 
(probably large enough for two bratty 
cousins), shut the round glass door, put the 
quarter in and realized we had committed 
the cardinal sin of dryer sins: we forgot the 
fabric softener. 
Now there was no stop button and this 
thing was filled with clothes, and I do mean 
lilted. 
I low were we supposed to put the stupid 
sheet inside without all our elothes Oying 
out? With my luck, it would probably be my 
sexiest underwear that would take to the 
air. 
Well, we had to risk it. Sure enough, half 
the contents new right out. Feeling like the 
complete idiots we look11d like we did what 
anyone else in our situation would do. 
We laughed our heads off. 
Meanwhile, little did we know that a small tornado had been brewing while we were inside. 
As soon as we took all of our clean dothes out to the car, pants and shirts and socks began to whirl around the parking lot. 
Hepeating our past performance, we began to laugh hysterically. 
As Betsy said, we felt like "Laverne and Shirley." Better that than Lenny and Squiggy, I guess. 
Our adventure finally came to an end. I am proud to say that we gained much in the way of laundromat wisdom. And we saved five bucks! 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer Tuesday,January30, 1990 
WEATHER Forecast for noon, Tuesday, Jan. 30. 
Lines show high temperatures.
30 20 

10 0 0 10 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure®©  ~~~  ~  rn  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T·STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  

Yesterday's high: 39
50 
Yesterday's low: 25 National High: 83 (Fort My­ers, Fla.) National Low: -9 (Warroad, 
Minn) 
Forecast: Becoming cloudy today with a 50 percent chance of light snow. High in the middle 30s. Clearing tonight. Low around 15. Outlook for Wednesday: Mostly sunny . High in the upper 20s. 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
OF INTEREST 
Dismas House information meeting to be held at 7 p.m. in the CSC. Students are greatly needed and en­couraged to think about this "once-in-a-lifetime" experi­ence of detention ministry. Any questions, please call Sal or James at 233-8522. 
Band auditions for Godspell will be held today in Hoom 115 Farley Hall. Guitarists please come at 8 p.m .. basists at 9 p.m. Bring only acoustics. and be prepared to play one piece. Drummers, and those with questions or connicts call Amalia at 283-4021. 
"How to Obtain a Summer Internship" is the ti­tle of a presentation to be given by Paul Reynolds of the Career and Placement Services office today at 4:15p.m. in Room 124 Hayes Healy Center. Reynolds will highlight the resources and techniques students should use in seeking employment opportunities for the summer months. Stu­dents of all majors and degrees are invited to attend. 
The Notre Dame Student Players will present their 1990 production, The Fantasticks. later this spring. Auditions for the cast will be held February 5th and 6th in Washington Hall. Anyone interested in auditions, techni­cal work. or the pit orchestra (keyboards, harp, string bass. percussion) should stop by the SUB secrntary's of­fice, 2nd floor LaFortune, by February 2nd for more in­formation. 
Seniors -Plans for senior month activities are underway. If you would like to participatll in planning these events please attend a meeting tomorrow, Wedm~s­day. Jan. 31 at 4:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Hoom in LaFortune or call Steffanie Keller at 283-4171. 
Mexico Summer Service Projnct mandatory mePt­ing for all those students interestnd in the project will bP at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the Center for Social Concerns If you have questions or need information call Dave Krier at 283-1145. 
WORLD 
New government figures have confirmed what Soviet shoppers already know: most industries in 1989 failed miserably at fulfilling President Mikhail Gor­bachev's promise of more consumer goods. A diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity said what little in­crease there was in consumer goods could be attributed to inOation, a greater emphasis on producing alcohol. and imports from the West. 
Three Lockheed engineers detained in the North African country of Chad for 20 days have mturned home to Georgia, the company said. Lockheed oflicials said the three employees arrived by private plane Satur­day and were met by relatives. "As far as l.ockiHwd is concerned, the book is dosed and we will have no further comment on the situation," spoknsman Dick Martin said in a statement Monday from Lockheed's Marietta plant. 
NATIONAL 
Depressed patients who were treated by computer during an experiment improved as much as those who consulted a human therapist, suggesting an economical treatment for a condition afnicting millions. Computer­ized therapy may one day help roughly a third of people with depression further research bears out its promise, said researcher John Greist. Depression strikes about 10 million Americans within any six-month period. 
A sawed-off .22-caliber rifle. loaded and set to go off. was delivered Monday to an assistant U.S. attorney in New York who prosecutes drug cases, authorities said. A briefcase containing the gun was delivered by mail to the Brooklyn federal courthouse office of Catherine Palmer, an experienced prosecutor who has investigated major Asian heroin drug traffickers. "It could have killed the person opening it," said Andrew Maloney, the U.S. attor­ney for the Eastern District of New York. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239· 7471 Today's Staff: 
News Sports 
Amy Leroux Production Greg Guffey Tim O'Keefe Wendy Cunningham 
Monica Yant Jeanne Blasi 
Matt Gallagher 
VlewpOOI Ad Design 
Molly Schwartz Accent Kim Skiles Shannon Roach 
Paige Smoron 

Kiristie olke Mindy Breen 
SystemsGraphics 

Gilbert Gomez Bradford j. Boehm Michael Gargiulo 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fridav except during exam and vacation penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reseNed. 
INDIANA 

A bill to legalize casino gambling in Gary appeared doomed in the Indi&na House Monday night. Rep. Earline Rogers, 0-Gary, said she was considering withdrawing the bill because it didn't have enough support to pass. Rogers said her bill's chances began to look bleak when Republican leaders told her they couldn't support the part of the proposal that would use some of the state tax revenue from casinos to reduce the auto excise tax. 
CAMPUS 

Women who carry purses to basketball ga~es should be advised that placing bags at t~mr feet could lead to theft, said Chuck Hurley, director of Security. At Saturday's Miami game, a woman had her wallet stolen by someone who re~ched up from beneath the bleachers. Hurley said that the thefts have occurred in the past, usually to people sitting in the bleacher area. 
MARKET UPDATE 

Volume in shares 
150.77 Million 

NYSE Index 179.73 {)r 0.48 S&P Composite 325.20 {)r 0.60 Dow Jones Industrials 2553.38 {)r 5.85 
Precious Metals Gold{} $1.00to$419.10/oz. 
Silver{} .8¢ to $5.2531 oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC On January 30: e In 1948: Indian political 
and spiritual leader Mahatma Gandhi. who had led his country to independence from British rule through his philosophy of 
non-violent confrontation,  was  
murdered  by  a  Hindu  ex­ 
tremist.  

e In 1968: Communist forces launched surprise at­tacks against South Vietnamese provincial capitals in what be­came known as the ''Tet Offen­sive." 
e In 1972: 13 Roman Catholic civil rights marchers were shot to death by British soldiers in Northern Ireland on what became known as "Bloody Sunday." 


~------------~------------~----------.--.-.--------------------------------------~---~--------------------~ 
Tuesday. January 30, 1990 


Foreign study students may vote in future elections 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Writer 
Overseas elections of Presi­dentiaVYice Presidential and Senatorial officers for Notre Dame are feasible according to the Student Senate, and at­tempts will be made to allow students participating in over­seas programs to vote in the future. 
Such elections were conducted twice in the past. and a number of problems came up which caused some senators to doubt their practicality. Lack of ac­cess to information regarding candidates has been prominent in the past, according to senate members, since the students could not meet the candidates or attend their debates. 
The cost of providing stu­dents in foreign countries with information is also high, espe­cially since some locations did not have access to facsimile machines in the past and had to be reached through Federal Express. 
Time constraints, especially in the event of a run-off, could also be a problem, since the amount of time between the two elections is generally very short. 
The majority of senate mem­
bers felt that these problems 
could be overcome. or that an 
attempt should at least be 
made to allow all Notre Dame 
students to vote. Also, some 
members felt that past elections 
had been conducted poorly or 
were not well prepared for be­
fore they were r.arried out. 

Junior David Chmiel of St. Edward's Hall helps take down the set from the St. Edward Hall Players' production of "Noises Off," which ran last weekend. 
The Observer page 3 
Guidelines for elections to student gov't set 
By PETER LOFTUS News Writer 
The election for student body president and vice-president will be held on Monday, Feb. 
12. The guidelines for running for these positions are as fol­lows: 
•Candidates representing five tickets are required to submit petitions containing signatures of at least 150 students to the Election Committee office by 5 
p.m.. Wednesday, Jan. 31. Campaigning will begin on Monday, Feb.S, at midnight and end on Monday, Feb. 12, at midnight. No campaigning is allowed before or after this period. 
•If no candidate receives 50% of the total vote in the first election, then there will be a run-off election on Wednesday, Feb. 14, between the top two vote-getters. 
•There 
is a $125 campaign spending limit for all tickets. Fines will be imposed for any campaign rule violations. 

•Campaign 
rules specify proper locations of campaign­ing, placement and size of cam­paign posters, methods of ob­taining endorsements, and gen­eral standards of ethical behavior expected of the candidates. They also cover the permissability of using some extraordinary methods of campaigning. 


According to the official con­stitution of the undergraduate student body, "no skywriting, airplane banners, or moving sound trucks are allowed" in the campaign. These are all methods which have been used in the past, according to Tom Rask, chairman of the Election Committee. 
ND civil engineer looks into the cost of highway safety 
By JOHANNA KELL V News Writer 
James Taylor. associate dean of the college of engineering and a civil engineer, is currently investigating the trade-off highway engineers often face between allocation of public funds and reductions in high­way fatalities, injuries, and property damage. 
"This is an area I've been in­terested in for some time," he said. 
Taylor explained that there are at least forty to fifty thou­sand highway fatalities each year, and it is the duty of high­way engineers to reduce these figures. 
Engineers often overlook the projected number of lives that could be saved when consider­ing a project because of the funds involved, Taylor said. Sometimes individual highway deaths or injuries take priority over the general population. 
"We know that people will be killed yet we are not willing to spend the money," he said. 
Taylor has written several ar­ticles on his theories concerning highway safety and hopes to someday be able to advise highway departments. 

"I hope to try and see how people make these decisions and try to explain the inconsis­tencies in the way we approach them as a society, as individu­als, and as we approach the victim," he said. 
Taylor has had an ongoing interest in studying the contra­dictions in his profession and had the opportunity to attend a two week course on philosophy and ethics in engineering. 
"Engineers are not well­trained in philosophy," Taylor said, "so this is a special inter­est of mine." 
Taylor joined the Notre Dame 
faculty in 1976 as chairman of 
the Department of Civil Engi­
neering. 
Taylor has had extensive background in engineering and transportation. Before coming to Notre Dame, Taylor taught and researched highway safety as the Director of Highway 
Traffic at the Pennsylvania 
State University. He also 
served as head of the Traffic 
Operations and Design Division 
of the Pennsylvania "Trans­
portation Institute. 
Catnpus Ministry and You 

@v1PUS
----------------------MINISW-
As we enter a new decade, the Office of Campus Ministry is happy to offer two programs which celebrate marriage and family life. 
First, for married couples seeking to grow in love and understanding of their relationship, we are offering again this semester our program entitled ENRICH. This is a two part workshop which uses a marriage inventory of 125 statements to help couples understand their particular strengths and work areas. The first session will take place on February 11th at 2pm when the inventory will be explained in detail and couples will fill it out individually. The second session will take place on several dates in the following months when the couples will receive the results of their inventory, a written explanation and some private time to discuss their results together. Pre-registration is required and can be accomplished by calling the Badin Office at 239-5242. 
The second program, LIVING FAITH IN THE FAMILY, takes place on three Sundays this semester at the Center for Continuing Education and is designed to explore issues of faith which affect families of all kinds. 
The first presenters on February 4th will by Jim and Kathy .McGinnis, from the international organization Parenting for Peace and Justice. Their topic is "Nurturing Children in a World of Conflict"."' As pa~ts and teachers, we are all concerned to help children develop to their fullest potential, which is not an easy task in our world fraught with conflict. This program will increase our understanding of how forces like violence, discrimination and materialism affect children and will explore ways as families to resist these forces. -This program is co-sponsored with the Center for Sodal Co~~eem. and the Institute for lntemational Peace Stu..n. 
Part two of this Sunday series will be held on March 4th when Dr. Keith Egan from St. Mary's Center for Spirituality will speak on the topic of Spirituality of the Home. Dr. Egan believes that to live fully we need sacred places--lakes, mountains, woods and at other times, a church, a synagogue, a mosque. But too often our homes are divorced form our sacred spaces. This program will explore the capacity of the home to nurture a deeply spiritual life for the traditional family, for those who share a home, and for those who live alone. 
The final presentation in this series takes place on March 25th, when Dr. Elaine Ramshaw will speak on Family Rituals. This program will first look at rituals from our families of origin to see the relationship between rituals and the family system. It will also look at our present households to discover the rituals and celebrations which already exist and then discuss ways to enrich family life by adapting and creating ritual patterns tailored to each family's unique life. 
Childcare will be available for all of the above programs and will include activities appropriate for different age groups. Childcare must be registered for one week in advance of the program you wish to attend. 
To register for ENR.ICH or for childcare for any of the programs please call the Campus Ministry Office: 239-5242. If you have any questions about the programs, please ask for Tracey Sandman or Carol Guenther. 
The Office of Campus Ministry present!; 
ENRICH 

Marriage Enrichment Worilshop Sunday February 11 2-4p.m. Pre-registration requi'ed 
Living FaHh in the Family A Sunday Series exploring issues of faith in the family setting 
February 4th Nurturing Children In a World of Conflict 
Jim and Kathy McGinnis Founders and Coordnators Parenting lor PNce andJustit» Network 
Marcb4th Spirituality of the Home 
Dr. Keith J. Egan 

Founder and Director 
Center for Spirituality 
St. Mary's College 
Marcb 25 Family Rituals 

Dr. Elaine J. Ramshaw Assistant Professor of Pasloral Care and Cotmeing Methodist Theological School In 0111o 

rver 
cPa~g~e~4----------------------------------------------~T~h=e~O~b=s~e~N~e~r___________________________________ Tuesday,January30, 1990 
Battle rages over how to spend peace dividend 


WASIIINGTON (AP) -The 
battle between Congress and 
the Bush administration over 
how to divvy up the "peace div­
idend" could make the Cold 
War look like a Sunday school 
picnic. 
The sniping began in earnest Monday with delivery of Presi­dent Bush's 1991 budget re­quest to Congress and will likely continue for several years as U.S. policy makers try to adjust to a new world symbol­ized by the crumbling of the Berlin Wall. 
The central questions revolve around the magnitude of de­fense savings made possible from lessened East-West ten­sions -and which programs will receive additional funds as a result. 
At present, there is nothing approaching a consensus on the answers to either of those questions. 
The administration says there won't be much of a peace divi­dend at all. particularly given the huge budget deficit. Many Democrats will respond tiy try­ing to reduce Bush's Pentagon blueprint, freeing additional dollars for social programs. 
Budget Director Richard Darman, in an essay accompa­nying the budget, accused Democrats of trivializing the issue and turning the entire de­bate into a game in which each player wildly overestimates the dividend and then comes up with different ways to spend it. 
"Thus, Washington entertains the notion of spending fifty times a dividend that has not yet definitively materialized -a true Wonderland phenomenon," Darman wrote. 
But House Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt of Missouri immediately countered that lawmakers would seek "greater cuts in defense, not having to cut so deeply on th~_domestic" side of the budget. 
What Darman doesn't say is that the administration is largely to blame for raising ex­pectations about the peace div­idend in the first place. 
Defense Secretary Richard Cheney announced last Novem­ber that he was searching for Pentagon cuts totaling $180 billion over the next six years. However, Cheney was calculat­ing his savings against an ad­ministration plan projecting a buildup in defense forces that Congress had already rejected. 
Thus. the actual savings will be far less. 
No one disputes that there will savings, but the scale of the windfall will be much more few years. 
In 1991, for example, the administration's new budget puts the "peace dividend" at $3.2 billion. That figure is ar­rived at by comparing what the administration is seeking in to­tal military outlays, $303.3 bil­lion, compared to the $306.4 billion that would be required to let the Pentagon keep pace with inflation. 
The $3.2 billion figure left Democrats definitely unim­pressed, with many accusing Darman of playing his own political game by proposing steep cuts in military personnel, t:oupled with a whole new round of base closings, while protecting the administration's pet multibillion-dollar weapons programs. 
Democratic leaders left no doubt that they would be look­ing for deeper cuts in some of the weapons programs favored money for everything from cleaning up the environment to taking care of the disadvan­taged and rebuilding America's crumbling road and bridge sys­tem. 
ally in the next 

The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street Mishawaka 
259-6322 
Hours: 7:30a.m.-9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
WASHEIRS ONlY 85¢ 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
Pick-up, wash. dry. fold. deliver 
SAME DAY SERVICE 

"There will be a debate about defense, no question about that," said House Speaker Thomas Foley, D-Wash. 
But after all the arguing over how much money can be wrung out of the Pentagon, a new battle will commence over where the extra funds should be spent. 
A whole array of advocates for domestic programs have begun lining up, seeking extra 
Attempting to study £or the MCAT alone would be nearly impossible. Attempting to study without Stanley H. Kaplan would simply be a bad career move. 
Maybe it's our 50 years o£ experience. Our small classes. Or the 
advanced teaching methods we use in all our classes all across the 
counay. 

Whatever it is, i£ medical school is your future, Stanley Kaplan can help you stan practicing right now. 
ESTANLEY H. KAPlAN 
£Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Glances 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
RESERVE YOUR PLACE 
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
YOU WOULD BE SURPRISED HOW LITTLE TIME IT TAKES TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE ... 
Tuesday, January 30 8:00 p.m. 117 Haggar 
Video/Discussion on apartheid in South Africa, presented by Amnesty International. Presentation by co-chairpersons of the Anti­Apartheid Network 
Wednesday, January 31 8:00p.m. 117 Haggar 
Discussion on the gang &drug situation in Chicago by members of St. Malacky's Parish and residents of the Cabrini and Green Housing Projects. 
Thursday, February 1 8:00 p.m. 117 Haggar 
Video presentation and discussion on issues of domestic violence, by Mona Mathers of the YWCA. 
Sponsored by the Social Concerns Commission of Student Government 
Tuesday, January 30, 1990 The Observer pageS 
Democrats attack Bush budget 

-~~~--------~--------------------~--------------~
FRESHMEN SOPHOMORE YEAR AN INFORMATIONAL PROGRAM 
by 
EMIL T. HOFMAN DEAN OF THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES in the ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM TUESDAY, JANUARY 30,1990 7 P.M. and WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 1990 7.P.M. (Both programs will be the same. Every freshman should plao to attend one.) FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Con­gressional Democrats attacked President Bush's 1991 budget on all fronts Monday, calling the $1.23 trillion spending plan too soft on the Pentagon, too harsh on domestic programs and too reliant on rosy eco­nomic projections. 
Republicans leaped to Bush's defense, even though many of them had to concede that parts of the president's proposal would never be enacted and that the budget year likely would be a tough one. 
"I wouldn't be surprised if we were unable to reach agreement up here this year," Sen. Pete Domenici of New Mexico, the Senate Budget Committee's ranking Republican, conceded to reporters. 
In a preview of a theme likely to dominate the year's Capitol Hill fiscal wars, majority Democrats pounced on Bush's call to spend $303.3 billion for overall defense spending. 
Budget 
continued from page 1 
pose no general tax increase. 
Still, the budget recommends $15.6 billion in lesser tax in­creases and a $5.6 billion in­crease in user and service fees 

That figure -a 2 percent cut from this year's $296.3 billion when compared to the costs of inflation -was derided by many Democrats as being too generous to the military at a time of easing tensions with the Soviet bloc. 
"It is becoming apparent that if there is to be a peace dividend that amounts to anything, this Congress is going to have to carve it out," complained Senate Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser, D­Tenn. "You'd think Joe Stalin had come back and entrenched himself in the Kremlin." 
"It is a Rip Van Winkle bud­get that has not yet awakened to the changes in the world or the major challenges at homes," said Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. 
Yet noticeably lacking was the phrase that became the re­flexive reaction among Democrats to many of the bud­gets that President Reagan sent 
-most of them recycled from Reagan budgets and previously defeated in Congress. 
The budget calls for "family savings" accounts under which families could bank up to $5,000 a year and pay no tax on interest on deposits held for seven or more years. 
the lawmakers: "Dead on ar­rival." 
"I think we'll take it very se­riously," said House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D­Mo. 
But like other members of his party, Gephardt called the spending blueprint a "stand­pat budget" that fails to seri­ously address many of the na­tion's problems. 
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., lauded Bush's proposals to boost spending on the Head Start preschool pro­gram for low-income children by $500 million to $1.9 billion. But he chided the president for offering overall education in­creases -to $24.6 billion ­that fail to keep abreast of in­flation, and for cutting heating bill subsidies to the poor. 
"A budget should make a statement about a nation's pri­orities and aspirations," Byrd said. 
"With an eye toward future growth, and expansion of the human frontier, the budget's chief emphasis is on investment in the future," Bush said in a brief message to Congress ac­companying the 1,569-page document. 
But Sen. James Sasser, D­Tenn., called it a document of "low aspirations.... It predicts huge fiscal problems ahead and then goes on to propose no change in course." 
And House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., said, "I think it's a standpat budget" but he said lawmakers would "take it very seriously" rather than pronouncing it "dead on arrival" as Democrats had done with several Reagan bud­gets. 
Bush's budget director, Richard Darman, opened the annual budget battle by proposing a truce. "We fully expect to negotiate with Congress over priorities," he told a briefing. 
But Sen. Pete Domenici, R­Ariz., senior Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, said that getting a budget agree­ment this year would be tough. "It's not child's play," he said. 
And House Minority Leader Bob Michel, R-Ill., said "obviously the (Democratic) majority has a little bit differ­ent idea of where the priorities 
ought· to be ... Hopefully, we'll 
just get it done on time." 
Bush's budget asserted it was 
meeting the $64 billion deficit 
target for fiscal 1991, under 
the Gramm-Rudman budget 
balancing law, "with specific 
and defensible measures -and 
without gimmicks." 
However, critics claimed the 
administration's prescription 
for getting the budget deficit 
down to $63.1 billion-from a 
projected $123. 8 billion this 
year -does rely on accounting 
gimmicks. 
"They continue to jimmy the 
figures," said Sen. Ernest 
Hollings, D-S.C. "It's another 
fraud." 
For one thing, Bush's budget uses an optimistic, set of eco­nomic projectioru; that assume both declining interest rates and falling inflation. The bud­get also calls for overall growth this year of 2.4 percent this year -compared to the 
1.7 percent forecast by private forecasters and the Congres­sional Budget Office. 
Tpe government's most re-· cent figures showed economic growth slowed to an annual rate of 0.5 percent during the last three months of 1989. 
How Can You Tell You Are in 
Love? 

Gender and Cultural Differences 
a public lecture by 
Sol Gordon 
Professor Emeritus, Syracuse Uni'9ersity 
Wednesday, January 31 
4:15 p.m. 

Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
and 

A Conversation Wttb Sol Gordon Wednesday, january 31 8:00p.m Grace Hall 
Sponsored by 

• Year of the Family • Committee on Multicultural Diversity ·University Counsellng Center • Gender Studies 



~ ~ --~­
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, January 30, 1990 
E. Germany arrests former leader Honecker for treason 
EAST BERLIN (AP) -Erich Honecker, who ruled East Ger­many for 18 years until his downfall in October, was ar­rested immediately after his re­lease from a hospital Monday and will be tried for treason, the national prosecutor said. 
Plans to put the former Communist Party chief and three members of his Politburo on trial in March were an­nounced by Prosecutor Hans-
FAF 
continued from page 1 
a student loan application. Lenders for loans are "selected very carefully at Notre Dame. The loans are provided through these lenders, and then various credits are put on a students account or a job is assigned, or both," said Russo. 
One of the major problems facing financial assistan.ce ap­plicants is the complexity of the Financial Aid Form (FAF). 
As many students may have Juergen Joseph at a session of Parliament, where Premier Hans Modrow offered a grim account of the state of the na­tion. 
The swift action against Ho­necker, 77, indicates the strength of a nationwide back­lash against corruption in his Stalinist regime. 
Economic problems and widespread unrest have forced Modrow, the embattled Com-
already noticed, Congress tried to remedy this problem by changing the 1990-91 FAF. Some families are now only re­quired to. complete the first half of the document. The reason for this is that families on pub­lic assistance have no need to respond to additional ques­tions. 
The financial aid office ad­vises that students complete the entire FAF, and not stop halfway. 
"This truncated application would serve such families very well," Russo said, "However, munist premier, to move the country's first free elections up from May to March 18 and bring the opposition into a coalition that will govern until then. 
In Washington, State De­partment Richard Boucher said: "They seem to have accel­erated the schedule in order to move quickly to a more stable, more long-term regime that's based on the popular will. 
the form has to serve a multiple purpose-for all levels of finan­cial circumstances." 
This is one of the reasons Notre Dame chooses to use the FAF over other forms of finan­cial aid applications. Many stu­dents' circumstances are very complex and that is not always evident on some applications. 
There are a number of finan­
cial aid forms available 
throughout the country, some 
more widely used than others. 
The most frequently used appli­
cation is the FAF put out by the 
College Scholarship Service. 
That's something that we sup­port." 
More than 100,000 people demonstrated in Leipzig and other cities Monday night. Many called for the election de­feat of the Communists and re­unification with prosperous West Germany. 
ADN, the official news agency, said Communist Party 
The CSS was created in the 1950s as an arm of the College Board. There is an $8.7 5 fee to send the FAF to a college. 
In the late 1960s the Ameri­can College Testing board de­veloped the Family Financial Statement (FFS), a different version of the FAF which Notre Dame does not use. 
According to Russo, this ap­plication is "overly simplistic and doesn't fulfill the needs of Notre Dame students." 
The application fee for the 
FFS is lower, than for the FAF, 
and students fill in dots with a chief Gregor Gysi postponed a trip to the United States planned for this week so he could help prepare for the elec­tions. 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany said in Bonn he would campaign for any East German Christian conservatives who wanted his help, and put off a visit Chile and Brazil planned for early March. 
pencil, and it is run through a machine. 
"If you live in Indiana," Russo added, " there is a different fi­nancial aid application." 
Students are asked to please remember to file the Indiana version only if they are an Indi­ana resident. 
The Notre Dame financial aid office has mailed either the FAF or the Indiana version to all students on campus who will be applying for aid. 

Files 
continued from page 1 
The EEOC argued that those documents were essential in de­termining whether or not Tung's charges were valid. 
The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit became involved when Pennsylvania further de­clined the EEOC's initial re­quests and subpoena. The court decided the University could not force the Commission to prove need, beyond relevance, to ob­tain the files. 
"Clearly, an alleged perpetra­tor of discrimination cannot be allowed to pick and choose the evidence which may be neces­sary for an agency investiga­tion," the Third Circuit Court said in EEOC v. Franklin and 
MCAT 
IISTANLEY H. KAPlAN
A TakeKaplanOrTakeYour Cltances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
Marshall College, a similar case. 
"Likewise, confidential mate­rial pertaining to other candi­dates for tenure in a similar time frame may demonstrate that persons with lesser qualifi­cations were granted tenure or that sof!le pattern of discrimi­nation occurs." 
The case reached the Supreme Court because of what could have been determined as a "conflict in approach" with a previous Seventh Circuit deci­sion. That 1983 decision al­lowed the University of Notre Dame to edit out identifying features, such as names and professional honors. before producing personal Iiles sought by the EEOC for a similar case (EEOC v University of Notre Dame du Lac 1983) 
The University of Pennsylva­nia's claim of academic free­dom was denied by the Court, who noted that Congress' Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972 extended Title VII, pro­viding the EEOC with subpoena power, and did not create a privilege for peer review docu­ments. 
The result made educational institutions subject to the same procedures as other employ­ment decisions. 
"We stand behind the break­water Congress has established: unless specifically provided otherwise in the statute, the EEOC may obtain 'relevant' evi­dence," said Blackmun in the Court's decision. 
Buckle Up For Spring Break '90 
***Attention Freshmen*** 
Freshmen Snow Tubing at St. Patrick's Park HAS BEEN RESCHEDULED due to a lack of snow NEW DATE: Sun. Feb. 11, 1990 7-10 pm 
Watch the Observer for bus times Tix available in Student Gov't Office 2nd floor LaFortune --$2.00 Questions? call Molly x3021 
• 

Viewpoint
Tuesday,Janua~30, 1990 
page 7 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ......... Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager.. . ...... Alison Cocks Accent Editor ... John Blas1 Systems Mgr . Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Ba1ley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor .Chnstme Gill Controller ... Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther mst1tut1on The news IS reported as accurately and ob­jectively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1torials represent the op1nion of the majority of the following: Editor-1n-Ch1ef. Manag1ng Editor. Executive News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Ed1tor, Photo Editor. Samt Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the tree express1on of vary1ng opinions on campus, through letters. IS encouraged. 

Legalization would stimulate cure for drug ills 
drug use are caused by impure overnight when faced with legal By Rick Acker 
<) drugs or mistakenly strong competition.'-..1 dosages. If drugs were legal, In My Opinion they could be regulated and The last reason I have for tested by the Food and Drug supporting the legalization of
On January 22 at the 
Administration, greatly reduc­drugs isn't factual. it's philo­Hesburgh Auditorium, Senator i-11-g the risk of accidental death. sophical. I believe that the cen­Joe Biden gave an excellent This hypothesis can be easily tral principle on which everyspeech opposing drug legaliza­tested by comparing the experi­democratic society is founded is tion. Several times during his ences of Holland and Italy. a respect for the right of everyspeech he said he hoped a legal­
Both countries have made man and woman to have as
ization advocate would present drugs more or less legal. much freedom as possible.
some of the pro-legalization Holland tests and regulates Governments do not have the arguments. Here they are. 
them; Italy does not. The rate right to prevent people fromFirst, the current anti-drug 
of drug-caused death in doing something simply be­
laws are almost universally the DEA and the local police who want to get unhooked. 
Amsterdam is lower than that cause it is bad for them.
recognized as ineffective. forces of Washington. D.C.. Los Legalizing drugs would also of New York. while Milan's is 
According to the Drug Angeles, and Dade County, reduce crime rates for two rea­The only time the government 
one of the highest in the world. 
Enforcement Agency, only 10% Florida blame about half of the sons. First, as I mentioned has a right to restrict our ac­of the drugs coming into this murders that occur in their earlier, about half the murders Finally, we should recognize tions is when we interfere with country are actually stopped by jurisdictions on drugs. They in some metropolitan areas are the benefit drug legalization the rights of others. If a com­law enforcement agencies. This are also convinced that most of the result of drugs. We can't would have in drug producing petent adult wants to snort co­
figure may actually be too high­these murders are caused by know for sure that legalization countries. In Columbia, Peru, caine or drink whiskey, it is -one Coast Guard officer I drug gangs fighting over turf. would reduce this violence, but and Bolivia, drug lords murder none of my business until he talked to who wanted his name Sen. Biden was convinced that we do know that the crime pat­police and judges, disrupt na­does something that endangers kept secret said that the real legalizing drugs would lead to terns associated with drugs to­tional economies, and wage my rights (like driving). percentage of drugs caught is an explosion in drug use and day are much like those associ­open war against governments. 
Kurt Schmoke is a man whocloser to 4%. crime. He, however, is presum­ated with alcohol 60 years ago They seem undefeatable. 

knows a lot about the problemOur anti-drug laws also have ing that our current anti-drug during Prohibition. Whenever one is captured or of drugs. He was a State'shad little effect on the number laws are effective. Since they killed, ten more are waiting to Attorney for a number of years of people using drugs. do no prevent drugs from We also know that alcohol take his place. 

and prosecuted thousands ofAccording to drug historians coming into the country, pre­and gang-related violence drug cases. He is currentlyDr. Robert O'Brien and Dr. vent people from using them, or dropped substantially after Legalization would confront mayor of Baltimore. one of the Sidney Cohen, the various anti­prevent people from killing over Prohibition was repealed in drug cartels with the thing they most drug-infested cities indrug laws passed between 1909 them, how are these laws effec­1934. From this we can infer fear most: loss of profits. If America. I would like to close

and 1937 had no measurable tive? If they are ineffective, that there is a good chance that drugs were legalized, legitimate with a quotation from an arti­effect on the number of people what possible harm could re­violence will also drop if drugs 
corporations would quickly de­cle he wrote for the June 5,using drugs. pealing them do? are legalized. 
stroy any competition the drug 1988 St. Petersburg Times onOur current laws are simi­Not only would legalizing Second, the Justice lords would try to offer. The drug legalization. "It takeslarly futile. According to the drugs do very little harm, it Department reports that ar­corporations would be more ef­great maturity and willpowerLondon based magazine The would have a number of sub­rests for owning or dealing ficient, have better advertising for a society to step back fromEconomist, "in 1980 the federal stantial benefits. According to drugs totalled about 600,000 and distribution networks, and a policy that on the surface
government of the United a 1989 report of the Senate's last year. If we legalize drugs, more experience in legitimate seems so noble and justified,
States spent just under $1 bil­subcommittee on drugs, the these are 600,00 arrests that business than the drug lords. but in reality has only com­lion trying to keep heroin, co­drug trade in America is worth 
will not be made. Legalizing The cartels and gangs wouldn't pounded the problem it is at­caine, and marijuana out of its about $300 billion. If drugs drugs would help take the bur­have a prayer. tempting to solve. On the sub­domestic market. By 1988 it were taxed at a 20% rate (the den off of our criminal justice ject of drugs. such maturitywas spending almost $4 billion. rate at which many states tax system. the overcrowding out Once again, the lessons we and willpower may now be inYet the retail price of drugs has alcohol), we would have an ex­of our jails, and the danger out learned from Prohibition are order. At the very least, wedropped even faster than the tra 60 billion dollars to spend of our str~ets. instructive. Many cities and need a sober national debate oncost of policing rose. As prohi­on the deficit, the homeless, towns had problems with rum the subject." 
bition failed, the volume of im­and Eastern Europe. Likewise. 
Much of the tragedy now as• makers and runners that ports soared." (The Economist, 
we could devote the money cur­sociated with drug use could be Columbia, Peru, and Bolivia 
Sept. 2. 1~89) rently used for enforcing anti­avoided through legalization. have with drug makers and 
Rick Acker is a first year law 

We have· not even managed to drug laws (about 60% of anti­
Between 20% and 75% smugglers today. When 
student and is a regular

prevent people from killing 
drug spending) to treatment (depending on whose research Prohibition was repealed, the 
Viewpoint columnist.

each other over drugs. Both and rehabilitation of addicts you believe) of deaths from criminals vanished DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
TH/3 ONLY PRDEJ/.£M IS THet'l?e 577t-t H~­
TH/3 WffCJl,/3 ~I CAMe IXJ(AJN HeR& WAS 70 
~SSUFB OUR. FRIIJNOS THAT THIS WAS A SHOF<.T­7f]RM, ONe-TIMe INT!iRVlfNT/ON! 
\ 
almost 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Every child comes with the message that God is not yet discouraged of man.' 
Rabindranath Tagore ( 1861-1941 ) 
Viewpoint

page 8 Tuesday, January 30, 1990 
Cuba stands amid crumbling wall of socialism 
Latin American standards. It's both manpower ano the U.N., OAS, and the Panama their ballots into wooden
By Gregory J. Buchholz 
people are assured of educa­materials-to Angola in its Canal treaties} invasion against boxes. Virtually every commen­
T am growing quite weary of tions equal to their abilities. struggle against the racist the sovereign nation of tator has noted the honesty of the increasing amount of Fidel Hunger has been eliminated. apartheid regime of South Panama, Cuba properly con­Cuban government. In Cuba bashing that is appearing in the Housing, though crowded, is Africa. It has stood in demned it without hesitation. democracy takes place not only pages of The Observer, other available to all and for no more solidarity with the new For its courage, it found its at the level of government but mainstream sources of news, than ten percent of a worker's Nicaragua in the United embassy in Panama surrounded also within the mass organiza­and most lamentably even some income. Health care is available Nations, OAS, and other diplo­by U.S. occupying forces and tions such as the Committees to "progressive" publications. For to all, not just the rich or those matic circles. It has provided a veiled threats of invasion from Defend the Revolution (CDRs)-a those who subscribe to the "end fortunate enough to have limited amount of material as­Bob Dole. type of neighborhood ombuds­of history" school or believe health insurance. Cubans now sistance to the Farabundo Cuba has rejected the pere­man-and on the shop floor that the rejection of an ersatz die of diseases associated with Marti Front for National stroika of the Eastern bloc as it where all major decisions must socialism in Eastern Europe advanced industrial countries­Liberation as it struggles already has its own democratic be approved by the workers. represents some sort of victory hardening of the arteries, heart against a U.S. backed regime reforms in progress. Cuba has much to teach us in for capitalism, Fidel Castro Ruz disease, and respiratory dis­that kills priests, nuns, trade Democracy is more than just terms of economic democracy must be an enigma. eases-rather than diarrhea, union workers, and peasants elections. El Salvador has elec­and is a source of hope and in­Cuba is a country valiantly cholera, malnutrition or death both individually and in carpet tions. But in El Salvador gov­spiration in its refusal to 
trying to build, against tremen­squad killings, as too many of bombings of poor neighbor­ernment troops note for whom abandon socialism, which dous odds, a true socialism for their brothers and sisters in the hoods. When the murderous the voter has cast his/her ballot would be to abandon its people. the benefit of all its people. It is region succumb to. regime in Washington launched through the clear plastic bag Gregory J. Buchholz is a no easy task to defy the mon­As the first free territory in its racist (Panama is predomi­that serves as a ballot box. 
graduate student in economics 

ster to the north that is bent on the Americas, Cuba never has nantly black), imperialist In Cuba armed troops are not and a member of the Steeringhemispheric, if not global. and never will forget its inter­(Washington installed its own present at the polls and chil­
Committee of the South Bend 

hegemony. Nevertheless. Cuba national obligations. It pro­colonial administrator), and il­dren salute voters for perform­chapter of the Pledge of is amazingly well developed by vided much needed support--legal (it violated the charters of ing their civic duty as they drop Resistance. 
lETTERS 

Demise of laundry washed-out sexism 
Dear Editor: was a few years ago. It would machines. Men would be more 
The administration is now be a great financial cost but well rounded and better 
considering many new options well worth it in the long run. adapted to the real world. Men 
in the ongoing St. Michael's Notre Dame needs to enter the would stay out of women's hall 
laundry crisis. Notre Dame will modern age and make the laundry rooms. Men would be 
rebuild a laundry facility away commitment. If Notre Dame able to spend less time on laun­
from the center of campus. can be committed to excellence dry and more time on other ac­
Though there is a justified need in athletics, excellence in aca­tivities, such as sports or 
for a place to do the institu­demics, expansion of facilities, books. Notre Dame would join
tional laundry, the University and extension of faculty into the ranks of other institutions 
should not. however, get back more research projects, why that believe their students are 
in the business of offering stu­not equality on campus and in grown up enough to do their 
dents a laundry service. It is access to laundry facilities. own laundry. Notre Dame 
too archaic and would be too As the system now exists, the would gain financially in the 
expensive. The University needs University has institutionalized long run because students 
to make a commitment to giv­negative roles for students. The would stay on campus and 
ing the men and women fair males are discouraged from spend quarters in their dorms 
and equitable resources for doing their laundry because it and not in off campus laun­
washing dirty laundry. 
is harder for them to gain ac­dromats. 
St. Michael's laundry, in its cess to the laundry resources 
Notre Dame should rebuild

old and now gone form, was a 
which the University controls. 
an institutional laundry, and

national embarrassment to Men dread laundry time be­
maybe a dry cleaning service

Notre Dame. It was one of the 
cause it is such an involved 
with machines to handle both

most blatantly sexist institu­chore. Meanwhile, females are 
male and female clothing. But

tions ever supported by a place 
subtly encouraged to do their 
Notre Dame should not wash

of highnr learning. The laundry by making it easier for 
students' clothes. it would be

University should not extort them in their residence halls. 
too expensive and inefficient. 

money from students for Notre Dame would gain im­
Zack Hudgins

laundry service. St. Mike's mensely from such a commit­
Keenan Hall

should rest in peace, and Notre ment to male-dorm laundry 
Jan.25, 1990

Dame should not do dirty 
domer duds. 
The University should make a commitment to male and female equality on campus, especially in the area of laundry. The University needs to have the guts to make the commitment to male laundry machines. Every male dorm should have washing and drying machines. The loss of social space could be avoided by converting rooms. There is not a housing 
crunch on campus like there 
Service Projects provide personal growth 
Dear Editor: had criminal records. They had cold hard fronts, lived kids, in­Last summer I met a young experienced more difficulty in nocent, living, needy kids. I girl named Carletta. I could tell, their fifteen or sixteen years of 
think everyone should have the 

just by looking at her, that she life than many of us ever will. I opportunity to experience a was a great athlete. l played was a volunteer for Stanford summer like mine, and the peo­volleyball with her one day, and Home. I believed in what I was ple at the Center for Social even though she had never been doing and in the organization's Concerns think so, too. Theycoached, her skills were excel­attempt to get through to these are accepting applications until lent. teenagers, to show them, Feb. 7 for those interested in Unfortunately, she had given maybe for the first time, love Summer Service Projects. Don't up on athletics and turned to and respect. But at the same worry, you don't have to work drug dealing. I'm sure it time, I believe I benefitted from for free! Alumni Clubs around seemed to her a more tangible my eight week stay far more the country sponsor the volun­and expedient passage out of than the residents benefitted teers in their areas. Each stu­the San Francisco ghettoes. l from my being there. After all, dent who participates receives also met Shawna, a bleached to them, I was just another a $1200 scholarship. So, even if blond, hard rocker whose worker. Maybe I wasn't even you could earn more workingbiker-parents had introduced that; they knew I was only there at a factory in your hometown, her to drugs before she was for eight weeks. That's not you wouldn't get to meet the five. And there was Marina, an much time to build a trusting Carletta's, the Marina's, the 
orphan, whose tough tomboyish relationship. homeless, the poor, the hungry. attitude was a defense against They need to know you. Don't the abuse and neglect she had I needed to learn about these you think you might need to suffered as a little girl. kids. I needed to let then be­know them too? All three girls lived at come a part of my life. The kids Stanford Home for children in I worked with were tough, Sacramento, California. Most undisciplined, even mean. But Julie Finnom 
Farley Hall 

of the residents there were they started out just like us. wards of the state, and most And somewhere, under those Jan.24, 1990 


China policy vetoes human rights 
Dear Edllor: was crushed. 
"America should be remem­How, then. can one expressbered for providing a launching the sense of betrayal at pad for Chinese leadership of Security Advisor Brent the future and not for providing Scowcroft"s meeting last sum­crutc~es for its tyrants of the mer with those butchers, at a past. time when the Bush These words were spoken by Administration was actively in­Republican Rep. William S. sisting that no high level ex­Broomfield of Michigan in the changes were being conducted? course of Congress's recent un­How does that Administration 
successful effort to override justify its recent, almost zeal­President Bush's veto of a law ous, efforts to insulate that to­which would have ensured that talitarian regime from the Chinese citizens, in particular slightest public declaration of students, who are now living in outrage? For, as the recent this country would not be de­events in Eastern Europe
ported to their homeland and demonstrate, it is not necessarypossible political persecution. for us to be reserved in our The failure of this effort repre­criticism of unjust governments 
sents a political victory for for reform movements to pro­both the White House and those ceed unhindered. responsible for last summer's Tiananmen Square Massacre, For now, the issue of depor­
for it allows for the continua­tation for Chinese students is tion of the hushed diplomacy entirely under President Bush's that has been so oddly preva­control, and he has given his 
lent in the President's reaction word that he will never force to last summer's atrocities. those students baek to persecu­It is difficult to imagine that tion in their homeland. It would anyone who remembers the be nice to feel as if one could tragedy of last year's events rely on such promises. could want to save those re­Unfortunately, the Scowcroft 
sponsible from, at least, the incident has taught us the ca­open repudiation of Congress. sualness with which this Yet the Administration's argu­Administration feels comfort­ment claims just this--that dis­able lying to its people. crete, courteous diplomacy can communicate the concerns of Even so, the President still this country's leadership more has an opportunity to take a effectively than can an embar­bold and definitive stance to­rassing reprimand. ward the despots in Beijing. 
Such arguments make it Doing so would indeed signal sound as if the leaders in that his Administration is pre­Beijing had merely committed a pared to provide a "launching breach of etiquette or owed our pad" for a trusting relationship country some money. We must with the leaders who will suc­never forget that the crime in ceed, and very possibly resent question is nothing short of greatly, the criminals now in mass murder. The Chinese power. A failure to do so would leadership ordered, after more serve not only to provide the than a months' opportunity for tyrants with a crutch, but it the weighing of alternatives, would institutionalize the the wholesale slaughter of hun­mockery that the present need­dreds, if not thousands, of in­less deference to cold-blooded nocent human beings. We as a killers is making of United nation must never forget the States human rights policy. terror, the outrage, and the Jeremy M. Manier grief we knew as the Zahm Hall demonstrators' noble dream Jan.25, 1990 
page 9
The Observer 

Accent 
MUSIC REVIEWS 
JASON WINSLADE accent writer 

Peter Murphy
No surprises 
.dives deep_er
in Erasure's latest In progressive rock realm 
'Even though Clarke has 'Deep continues in the musical been a vanguard of popular direction of Murphy's earlier work, electronic music, he still tries Love Hysteria.' 
to make use of keyboard 
niscent of the sounds of David styles that were only Bowie and Iggy Pop, is heard
Deep is the third solo in such songs as "Deep Ocean, 
innovative in the early 80s.' effort from the lead singer of Vast Sea," "The Line Between post-punk Gothic rock legends, 
the Devil's Teeth," and "RollBauhaus, of which the Call," which continues the members of Love and Rockets
90's. This outdated style is most "La Gloria." theme of the 
were also a
You won't hear any apparent in the slower "How The higher points on the al­mindlessness
part.

surprises from the fourth full­Many Times?, "in which Andy bum are the first single, the of partying
Deep
length effort from one of the Bell's soulful lower range is melodic and upbeat "Drama," begun in Love
continues in 
most popular British techno­ruined by tinny keyboards the house music influenced Hysteria's
the musical 
pop duos, Andy Bell and Vince which sound like a typical "Brother and Sister," and the "Funtime".
direction of 
DEEP
Clarke, better known as cheap Casio keyboard. mellow piano and string com­Also present
Murphy's
Erasure. bination, "Piano Song." in Murphy's 
earlier work new album
Peter Murphy
Love Hysteria.
Keyboardist Vince Clarke has The best aspects of Erasure's are the more
The use of
been at the forefront of popular sound are displayed in "You psychedelic
keyboards,
electronic music since the early Surround Me," a medium beat pop songs, 
the ethereal sound and
WILD!
80's with his brief stint as the song that combines a heavier like the first single, "Cuts You
psychedelic lyrics of his earlier 
songwriter and fourth member synth sound with Andy Bell's Up," "Crystal Wrists" and
works are present, but hidden
of Depeche Mode, and the man incredible vocal range, and in "Seven Veils." 
Erasure in Deep. 
behind Alison Moyet's voice in "Crown of Thorns," a more at­Murphy pursues these three
The mellow sound of 
Yaz. mospheric song with uplifting different directions-keyboard 
Murphy's earlier work is re­
Even though Clarke has been patriotic qualities that make it use, ethereal sound and 
The Erasure fan gets the tained in the beautiful and at­
a vanguard of popular elec­sound like a traditional English psychedelic lyrics-in "Deep." 
usual dose of pop songs, like mospheric acoustic layerings of 
tronic music, he still tries to tune. Although his lyrics still deal 
"Marlene Dietrich's Favourite "Blue Savannah," which
make use of keyboard styles Wild! is the normal fun, usu­with images rather than
Poem," and also in the song sounds something like an elec­
that were innovative in the ally mindless pop that one themes, he has decidedly 
tronic Slim Whitman cover, about love/hate extremes, "A
early 80's. Obviously, this style would expect from Erasure. moved further into the realm of 
"Star," "2,00b Miles," and the Strange Kind of Love." 
is no longer innovated for the progressive rock. 
horribly annoying Latin tune, A distinct rock sound, remi-
Observations and advice for life under the Dome 
From 
...to EE 4980:
... 
--,.;

--'Frankenstein Combinational on Ice' .... Algorithms 
Well, T h e disappointed. If Runner-up: PHIL 465 The 
Spring Jan Mitchell bookstore is I were you, I'd QuestionBreak is L' ~ · still routinely stick to those
1on ,ammg... First Place: liPS 213 
weeks away, charging courses with Experiencing God (Does Heand over eight brightly colored come to class or is there a fieldChristmas break is long gone. thousa'nd golfballs and trip?)
During your Christmas break, dollars for a windmill you may very well have said s i n g I e obstacles. 
And finally, the Worst Name 
things like these: paperback category is for course titles
"Mmmm! Turkey sand­book, and If you haven't which make you want towiches!" freshmen are yet got your full scream and run away rather
"My, what a lovely tie. I don't still required complement of than sign up for the course.
believe I've ever seen Lawrence to take Gym classes, you may Winning awards in this cate­Welk commemorated in silk be­class. want to take a gory are: fore. Everytime I wear it, I'll good look at the Runner-up: EE 498Dthink of you." Freshmen follo\'ling list, as Combinatorial Algorithms 
will have Lion Taming (Aaaugh! Aaaugh! Run away! 
"Wow! Turkey Casserole!" signed up for presents the first Run away!) 
"Yeah, we do have a pretty their second (and probably good football team." set of rota­last) annual 
First Place: CE 534 Design of 
"Gee! Turkey Surprise!" tions by now. DART Course Biological Waste {I'm assuming "Why yes, Uncle Arnold, I Two of my Name Awards! 
there was more to this title that 
have though about following in favorite Gym In the category was cut off because it was overyour footsteps and devoting my c I a s s of Best Course the 30-letter limit, but you life to the family seatcover rotations Title, the kind of never know.)
business." were Ice name that makes "Great! Turkey Loafl" Skating and Golf. By now, my Answer: Running into some­you want to take the class even 
thing {another person/the wall) All of February stands be­
Well, here we are again; back skilled and graceful skating has though you have no idea what 
and falling down. tween us and spring break, but 
at good ol' Notre Dame. There become, I am sure, legendary in it's about, the winners are: I suppose we'll survive. Now, if may be a few more washers the Phys. Ed. department. It 
Golf went a little better (by you'll excuse me, I've got a
and dryers for the guys, and a can perhaps be best summed Runner-up: ENGL 461A 
which I mean that I was not package from home. Mom sent
road or two closed for con­up in three words: Spectre as Spectacle
forced to strap metal blades on First Place: ANTH 369 me some food. I'm not sure, butstruction, but some things "Frankenstein on Ice." That is my feet), but I do have a warn­Dreams: Nightlife of the Mind I don't think those dried strips 
never change. not to say that I did not learn 
ing to freshmen-those of you of meat are made from beef by­
For lunch, the dining hall is anything during the course. For (It sure sounds good, anyway.) 
who signed up thinking that the products. Unless I'm mistaken, 
still sticking to the four major example, here's a fun quiz: In The Most Mysterious category 
class would spend at least a is for those classes with it's turkey jerky. Hmmm. It'sfood groups: pizza, burgers, ice skating, there are two basic 
couple of weeks learning to either that or the dining hall. 
chicken (in nugget or patty ways of stopping. Can you interesting, but enigmatic
drive those little electric carts Wait, where did I leave the 
form) and fried potato products. name them? names. The winners here are: 
around are going to be sorely phone number for Dominos? 
_, 

Strawberry charged with assault

Flyers 
continued from page 16 
and 12.0 rebounds per game, followed by senior Keith Robinson at 14.9 ppg and 6.6 rpg. Joe Fredrick scores at a 
13.3 clip, and reserve guard Elmer Bennett has 8.6 ppg. 
Monty Williams (8.4 ppg1 and Tim Singleton (5.3 ppg and 76 total assists) round out the starting five for Notre Dame. 
The Irish looked impressive in big wins over Wichita State and Miami (Fla.) last week. Everything finally clicked in those games for Notre Dame, and Phelps hopes that carries over into the three-game road stretch that begins Sunday at Duke and includes meetings with Southern Methodist and Houston. 
"I think the most important 

thing for them is to stay in a positive frame of mind," Phelps said. "The students can get us every win at home. They have to keep this place like a zoo. We'll see it at Duke, and that's what we need here." 
NOTES -The Irish are shoot­ing 52.5 percent from the field and 73.6 percent from the foul line...Robinson is hitting 61 percent from the field...Notre Dame is outrebounding oppo­nents by 10 boards per game.. .Fredrick has 906 career points, while Robinson has 887 points...The last Irish loss in the JACC was against Louisville in the final game of the 1989 season. . .Dayton is one game put of first place in the MCC. . .Two Dayton residents, Corbitt and Springer, are in the Flyer starting lineup...The Flyers are 9-3 at home and 2-3 on the road...O'Brien is 85-75 in six years of collegiate coaching. 
ENCINO, Calif. (AP) -New York Mets star Darryl Strawberry was arrested and charged with assault with a deadly weapon last week after allegedly threatening his wife with a pistol, police said Monday. 
Strawberry was arrested at his home in Encino and spent a "very short time" in jail at the West Valley station early Friday morning, Sgt. Woody Baca said. 
Los Angeles Police Cmdr. William Booth said Strawberry posted $12,000 bail "and is back with his wife." 
"It was very basic type stuff, a family dispute," Booth said. 
Baca read a police statement that said West Valley officers were called to the Strawberry home at 3:45 a.m. after a re­port of "domestic violence." Lisa Strawberry, 25, said she and her husband had argued and that Darryl, 27, hit her in the face with an open hand, the statement said. 
According to the report, Lisa grabbed a metal rod and hit Strawberry in the ribs and wrist. Lisa alleged Strawberry got a handgun and threatened her, the report said. 
A .25-caliber semi-automatic pistol registered to Lisa was found in the house, police said. The statement said Lisa showed "no visible injury" and that Strawberry had bruises on ribcage and wrist. 
"There was a pistol in the house. I don't remember all of the circumstances," Booth said. 
"He was taken into custody because there was a dispute. We have prima facie evidence that he had violated the law," Booth said. 
Booth said he did not know whether a court date had been set on the assault charge. An investigation by West Valley officers is continuing, police said. 
Strawberry and his wife were separated in 1987. She has al­leged in the past that he has hit her. 
Last Wednesday, blood tests established that Strawberry was the father of a child born in 1988 to a woman in St. Louis. Strawberry did not con­test the finding and a judge in St. Louis County Circuit Court took under study the amount of child support the All-Star out­fielder is to pay. 
Strawberry lives in an afnu­ent suburb of the San Fernando Valley where celebrities such as Michael Jackson and Steve Allen reside, lies about 20 miles northwest of downtown Los Angeles. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
WANTED: 2 KEENAN REVUE TIX DearJD,MADMACS MADMACS CAMP STAFF: 21+, Coed, WANTED: Ride to PGH on FEB 2! 
FOR SAT NIGHT. WILL TRADE Thanks for an incredible Sat. 
MADMACS sleepaway camp, Massachusetts.
NOTICES 
Call x28802 TIX FOR FRI NIGHT. CALL night. It was the best ever. I owe 

Some key positions avail. Also: Word Processing you one (or 157)!!! 
YOURND&SMC WSI. lifeguard. arts & crafts, all MACINTOSH USER GROUP GIANNETIO'S PIZZA
Can return on disk Love,
land and water sports. fitness, 7pm Tues. Jan 30 1990 (formerly of Notre Dame Ave.)

rH~
Pick up and delivery T
gymnastics. piano/play for shows, rm 300 Math/Comp bldg now open in Granger on the corner271-9114 drama. judo, dance, tennis, of Fir & St. Rd. 23.

SPRINGBREAK SAILING archery. photography, computers, MAIL BOXES ETC. 
Offering free delivery & carry outWIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OF model rocketry, guitar. radio, BAHAMASShipping, Copies, Cards. 
service.
BIG SCREEEN TV PLUS RAISE 

video. yearbook, newspaper, 45ft Captained Yachts UP TO $1.400 IN JUST 10 DAYS!II 
Laser Quality For Congratulations, 277·8460. 
wilderness, woodwork, RN typist. Groups of Eight Objective: Fundraiser 
Papers. Reports, Resumes. Etc. Jose Fernandez 
6/18-8/20. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Seven Days Barefoot in the and Heleni Korwek! 
277·MAIL RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has Commitment: Minimal 
Brassie Rd. Eastchester, NY Bahamas May the winds of rooms for Graduation weekend. 
Money: Raise $1,400 $455.00 each All Accommodation 10707. 800/955-CAMP. 

Gays and Lesbians happiness always Minimum stay 2 nights with $100Cost: Zero Investment & Meals 
at Notre Dame/St. Mary's blow your way. deposit per room. Send letter to Campus organizations, clubs. 
SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE 
P.O. Box 194 SUMMER JOBS Good luck from 
3011 Belvedere Rd .. Elkhart, INfrats, sororities call OCMC: ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 1-800-999-7245 Anytime The Observer
Notre Dame. IN 46556 46514 or Call219-262-1581.
1 (800)932-0528/1 (800)950-84 72, 

283-4256 PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ext. 10 
ADOPTION
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS hiag 
SELLING PEOPLE ... How can you tell you are in Love? NEAR LAKE PLACID 
Doctor & artist, happily married, IS THAT LEGAL? 
warm, seek white newborn to love
Sol Gordon Lecture CALL 1-800-343-8373
SUMMER JOBS 

FEB. 13th OUNSELORS-Boys Camp, W. Mass. 
and cherish. Legal, confidential. Auditions for actresses for4:15pm Library Auditorium 
Wedneday, January 31. Earn $300-$500 per week reading Please call Hanna & Mark collect Cavanaugh's Up the Down
I G1rls Camp, Maine 

Spring Break--RIDE WANTED Top Salary, RmiBdllaundrt. Travel 
books at home. Call1-615-473-(212) 864-5512 Staircase will be held 1/29 and1/30 
To West Coast Florida Allowance. 
GOTCHA 7440 Ext. B340 from 7·9 pm in 127 Nieuwland. 
____ ) _______________________________ _ Will Share Usuals Must love kids and have skill in one of 
Parrot Heads Forever!!! 
PLAY THE SURVIVAL GAME 
tel. 233-4308 (after 4:00pm) the following activitiE'S: 
"HOW TO OBTAIN A SUMMER Archery. Arts & Crafts, Baseball, 
Assasinate your friends and Hard Working Book People 
win BIG$$$. Seek Energetic Assistants INTERNSHIP." A PRESENTATION 
NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP Basketball. Bicycling, Chet~rleading. 
Don't miss your chance to 1 0+ hrs!wk, flxbl sched BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF 
PROGRAM!!!!II! 
Dance, Drama, Drums. Fendng, Golf, 

to play. Call x2046. Call288-1002. M-F 3-5 pm CAREER AND PLACEMENT Puitar. Gymnastics. Hockey. Horseback. 
SERVICES. TONIGHT AT 4:15 
KEYBOARDIST wanted to join Tutor South Bend children . 
Karate. Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses. 

I want a ride to Champaign,IL on p.m. IN
established high-energy Sign up Tuesday and Wednesday 
LOST/FOUND I
Photography, Piano. Radio, Rocketry, 

2/2. $$$. Doug X2358. ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY 
progressive rock/dance band. 
in the dining halls ..
Ropes, Sailboarding. Sailing, Scuba, 

'''Lost•••••..•••••••••To whoever CENTER. ALL MAJORS AND 
Good equipment and attitude a 
Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, 

picked up my overcoat at the party Please! Need ride to Purdue must, backing vocals a plus. DEGREES WELCOME. NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP Weights, Wood. Men call or write· 
on the 4th floor of Fisher Sat. night, Feb. 2 Will share costs All interested contact: PROGRAM!!IIIII
Camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, 

you have my ID. wallet, and keys. I 291-6428 Mo Dennis #3281 ... Brian #1 804 Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 
would like to eat this week and "HOW TO OBTAIN A SUMMER 
381·5983 Women call or write: Camp 

would really appreciate it if you Need a ride to WINTERFEST .... INTERNATIONAL ••••••
INTERNSHIP." A PRESENTATION 
Vega, P.O. Box 1771. Duxbury, MA 

would retum my coat. Thanks. Chicago/Northwestern Friday, FESTIVALBY PAUL REYNOLDS OF 
02332 (617) 934-6536. 

And by the way, I have a blue Air Feb. 9. If you can help, call Monica IS Saturday 2/3/90 CAREER AND PLACEMENT Force overcoat to trade with you. at X4081. 
BE YOUR OWN BOSSI SERVICES. TONIGHT AT 4:15 7:30pm 
Mark x2937. COMING!!!!! 
Washington Hall Distributorships, Dealerships, 

p.m. IN Money making opportunities. 
FOR RENT 

ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY Franchises, & Mail order. Detail, 
WINTERFEST Tickets $2 available at ISO 
CENTER. ALL MAJORS AND LOST-Maryland License Plate­NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR WINTERFEST office and at LaFortunesend $2.00 to: National Marketing DEGREES ARE WELCOME.
"IRISH91". Reward. X1745. NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 WINTERFEST 
Information Desk WINTERFEST
Company, Box 3006, Boston, MA. 
02130 "HOW TO OBTAIN A SUMMER 

Lost: set of roomkeys with 4 Bdrm home for rent WINTER FEST ••••• INTERNATIONAL •••• 
INTERNSHIP." A PRESENTATION 
1988 National Championship 1122 Blyler Place WINTERFEST FESTIVALTYPING AVAILABLE BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF 
keyring. If found please call (616)695-3786 WINTERFEST287-4082 CAREER AND PLACEMENT 
x1419 WINTERFEST Banana, I mean Chris,
SERVICES. TONIGHT AT 4:15 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY WINTER FEST Happy Birthday Sweetheart. 
CASH FOR CARS. TRUCKS 

I 
p.m. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY Lost: Men's Signet Ring 219-291-7153. 
And, I really did like the yellow regardless of condition. 277-9954. 

CENTER. ALL MAJORS AND lnitialsDTC 
jumpsuit. ....... Really! 

DEGREES ARE WELCOME.
Call David x4 779 
Love, Sol Gordon lecture 4:15 Library 
FORSALE
In love? Sure? Find out. 

One of the guys you're seeing. LOST?: If you have a navy & tan Attention I Attention! 
Auditorium, Wedneday, January DEC 350 Computer 

leather Liz Claiborne shoulder bag I need two tickets to the Missouri ATIENTION WINTERFEST TOURNAMENTS with IBM compatible printer. 
31. that doesn't belong to you, basketball game. Please call Terri JUNIORS!!!I!IIIIII!III!!II 
Everything included. $500. If you want to get involved in the Think it's Love? Find out for sure. 
PLEASE return it! Contained at 284-4254. 
Call271-9810. J.P.W. MASS go to Stepan Center checkbook, Sharp graphic Sol Gordon Lecture 
Tues. January 30 at SIGN-UPS
calculator, and MANY other POW/MIA BRACELETS-order in 4:15pm Library Auditorium 
3:30 to audition to be a reader. Wednesday, January 31. 
valuble itemsl REWARD-no dining halls now! Sponsored by 
Encyclopaedia Britannica. Any questions????? 
questions asked I Please call 283-Arnold Air Society Immaculate. Plus year books Call Meg x2639. BROOMBALL, VOLLEYBALL, ! 4354USED TEXTBOOKS 
and Annals of America collection. FLAG FOOTBALL
POW/MIA BRACELETS-order AT A DISCOUNT! 
$500. 271-9810 Needed: Anyone with any form 
LOST: If you have a navy &tan Liz yours today! 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 

of electronic percussion/drum corner of N.D. ave. and Howard 
Claiborne leather shoulder bag 
machine/sampler/4-SUB OFFICE PLEASE return it! Contains many 111111!1!1!!!11 HELL 0 11111111111111!11 
that doesn't belong to you, MON.-WED. 5-7 P.M. 
valuble items, including Sharp SEAN BROWN ... I'm sorry 
Daytona Beach 
••••••••wiNTERFEST""

Graphic calculator. checkbook, ORIGINAL HANDMADE people think you put thai 
track/keyboard for temporaryetcl REWARD-no questions PERUVIAN SWEATERS ... personal in for yourself. They 
experimental/industrial/performan
Over 1/2 Full 
TOURNAMENTS, BENDIXasked I PLEASE call 283-4354 (last yr. 160 stud.) 

are just jealous-especially ce art project. Call Jason at x3677. 
WOODS, CLUB TUESDAY, ICE
Hurry up only two left. Sign U;:JS 8 pm Feb 7 
anytime! JOEY DIMBERIO because I SKATING, ALL-NIGHT MOVIES Call Felix at X2362. 
didn't put one in yet for his 
Had a party lately? Spilled " LaFortune Th<:~ater 
LOST: I lost my camera at B'day on February 4th. 
refreshments" on your carpet? Call 
Pop Farley on Saturday night. 11111111!1!1!! Hurry UP 11!!11!11!!!1!!
284-440;" jf,mruh.•r 

Anyway, both of you have SPARKLING 
••••••••w1NTERFEST''''

If you find it, plea&e call John awesome 21st B'days!!!!!! 
CLEANERS 
at x1453. Thankyou. 
I hope this clears things up! 
to have your carpets cleaned, 
I WILL TYPE ANY PAPERS AT $3 FEBRUARY 4-10'''''"" 
call Mark or Cesar at 283­A PAGE. CAll TANYAAT239­LOST: Lost leather jacket with FOR SALE-adc graphic The SHE-WOMEN-BOY-HATERS 1584!
6299. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MOM I This is just a little wallet and keys inside Saturday, equalizer. hardly used. $125 CLUB salutes STEFFANIE 

January 20 at Bridget's. Please call Jon..a1..232:9469. KELLER on her 22nd birthday. 
''''MADMACS MEETING"" 
note to say hi and thanks return, great sentimental value. 

STEFF IS WOMAN, HEAR HER 
7 pm Tues. Jan 30 Men of 11D, for being my best friend. 
Reward offered. Call Cathy at 284· 
ROARIII 
rm 300 Malh!Comp Bldg I have important work for all of you. Your Loving Son, Some will be more important than R. James Aloysius 
Meeling Topic: others. I have Brother Folgia, Mac VIrUSeS & Virusology HEY CHANGE fl.ANES) aka SID, Brother Cookie, and Brother Dog Misfits In DisguiseLA~n=E-:":N='TI~O~N~-H~I~R~IN~G~I----1 DESPERATELY need 10 Mizzou­Je t'aimell Told you I'd put this in mind for some important work. Aud. Jan. 30, FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE Government jobs-your area. ND Basketball tickets. Will pay lots in ............... Love, Prepare yourself. Your life is about 7:00-9:00 Virus detection o' cash.$$$$$$Call Colleen at 283­
r228 wANTED , , TICKETS , 
$17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-838-NANCY Spungen to change. Senior Club & eradication software 8885. Ext. R6262. (Did I spell that right??) Saint Chat Info. 277-3666
4055ASAP. 
page 11

Tuesday, January 30, 1990 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Bookstore Basketball commissioner applications should be picked up at SUB office in Lafortune until Wednesday. They are due at 4 p.m. Wednesday. Call 234-9716 for more infor­mation. 
Equestrian Club is organizing lessons for the spring semester. Call x2875 or x4215 for more information. 
WVFI-AM 640 will air tonight's game between Notre Dame and Dayton beginning at 7:30 p.m. Jamey Rappis and Vic Lombardi will call all the action. 
Women's Lacrosse Club will practice at 4 p.m. Wednesday at Madelevea Field. call 284-5468 or x3351 for more infor­mation. 
Off-campus hockey has a game at 10:30 p.m. Tuesday night. 
Rugby practice resumes at 10 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday in Loftus. Anyone interested in playing should contact Jon at 232-9469. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Observer in Lafortune. The Observer does not guarantee that briefs will be printed and briefs will be edited for clarity and length. Because of space constraints. no brief may run more than two times. 
Real Estate AnalystProgram 
LET OUR 2-YEAR PROGRAM BE A PRELUDE TO YOUR MBA! Want some rock-solid commercial real estate 
experience before pursuing your MBA? Then consider this great opportunity with THE PRUDENTIAL, the nation's largest real estate investor. 
We're looking for energetic, ambitious B.A.'s and 
B.S.'s (who are planning to apply to top business schools 1n 1992) for a challenging 2-year assignment 1n our Real Estate Analyst Program. To qualify, you 
need a B + or better undergraduate GPA and a strong mathematical aptitude. An intensive training 
program will help prepare you for real estate modeling and financial evaluation assignments. 
This program provides outstanding on-the-job training, expenence, and exposure to real estate markets and top 1nvestment professionals. The Prudential offers attractive starting salaries with comprehensive benefits. 
To apply, send your resume and a copy of your college transcript, by February 9, 1990 to: 
THE PRUDENTIAL REALTY GROUP Indianapolis Realty Group Office 9200 Keystone Crossing · Suite 730 Indianapolis, IN 46240 Attn: Analyst Program 
An Egual Opportunity Employer 
The Prudential Realty Group 

ThePrudent1al e 
FREE DELIVERY 
The International Sub Deli 
l 
Siegfried boasts unbeaten teams I 
I 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Editor 
Siegfried Hall is undefeated in women's interhall action, with the A-team leading the A1 League with a 4-0 record, and the B-team holding the same spot and the same record in the B-league. 
In the A2 League, Lewis re­mains undefeated with a 3-0 record, but faces its toughest challenge of the season in the upcoming grudge match with Pasquerilla East, especially if the Pasquerilla team can get its running game in gear. 
In action before break, the 
Chickens slowed the game down 
with a press and Lewis and P.E. 
played through a vicious defen­
sive struggle. Lewis emerged 
with the hard-fought victory 
19-10 after four 8-minute-run­
ning quarters. 
"It was really tough," said 
Lewis captain Jill Beth Hayes. 
"We were excited to win, be­
cause they have a lot of very 
good athletes. We just had to 
get on them defensively, and the 
game was very, very physical." 


CAMPUS DELIVERY 
277-3324 
Across from Coach's Sports bar 
HOAGIE SPECIAL: 6" 12" 
$3.00 $3.99
effective until 2/11 /90 
"Lewis is the most intense ri­valry we have now," said P.E. standout Molly Mahoney. "Their press was our demise. We just couldn't handle it. The press killed us last year, and it's the albatross around our necks this year." 
Lewis is getting help from talented freshmen, including Kim Thonton and Kelly McDonough, but Hayes says the entire league is benefitting from new faces. 
"The competition we've seen is a lot tougher this year," Hayes said, "because there are many good freshmen coming in. They are helping us out a lot. Some other teams have some former basketball walkons, and some of the volleyball players are in it now, too, and that makes the competition even better." 
P.E. is second in the A2 League at 3-1, followed by Knott and Howard at 1-2 and Walsh at 0-3. 
"So far, I've seen a lot of physical teams," Mahoney said. "We're physical, but what sets us apart is quickness. We're 
Chicago wins easily over Atlanta 
CHICAGO (AP) -The Chicago Bulls had a 20-point lead after one period, then cruised behind 20 points by Scottie Pippen and 16 by Michael Jordan to a 121­111 victory over the Atlanta Hawks on Monday night. 


The victory in which John Paxson and Horace Grant also had 16 points for Chicago, was 
Tickets: $2.00 • available at the International OHice 2nd Floor LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame if ~tR or at the door while they last. 
I·· w ONALSTUDENT ORGANIZATION 

" THE IITniiATIOUL CIIOIUS • 
" ~ICM "  I"  lZ"  
CHICKEN SALAD •••••••••••  2.75  3.90  
TUNA SALAD • • • • • • • • • • • • • •  Z. 75  3. 90  
ROAST BEEF lo TURKEY • • • • •  3. 70  & • 90  
ROAST BEEF • • • • • • • • • • • • • •  3.00  •-•O  
n.KEY • • •••• •••••••••• ••  Z.IO  1.10  
IWltRIIATIOIAl COMBO  l.IO  5-Z&  
INTERIATIOIAL TURKEY CLUI  3.15  &.30  
IWII lo CHEESE • • •.• • • • • • • • •  Z.10  &.10  
Vf&IE SUI • • • • • • • • • . • • . •  Z.OO  2.75  
RICHMAN SUI •••••••.•••••  1.25  2.25  
• 111511 •  
CORIIED BEEF on RYE •• ••• •  3.15  a.zo  
REUI(N on RYE • • • • . • • • • • .  l.ZS  &.JO  
• lTM.lM.  
IIO&IiiE • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •  3.10.  s.z•  
PIZZA SUI • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •  l.OO  t.OO  
SAUSAR • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •  Z.IO  l.IO  
MEATIALL • • • • •• • • • • • •.• • • •  Z.ZS  3.50  
ROAST BEEF AU JUS • • • • • • •  3.15  t.50  
BEEF lo SAUSME •••••• ••••  l.H  t.IO  
• PILISII •  
SAUSME .... ...... ... •• ..  Z.IO  l-10  
·-·  

IIAT1IUIIST ............... l.tS 3.55 
fast-break oriented, and we have some good players inside." 
Siegfried A has played in some close contests of late. 
"It's been really competitive," said team captain Debbie Goodrich. "We've won by less than 10 three of our last four games. We play B-P Sunday, and that will be a challenge. We beat them once, but they had a big win Sunday, and they'll be ready to play this weekend." 
Breen-Phillips holds second place in the A1 League with a 2­1 record, but could pull into first with a win over Siegfried 
A. Pasquarilla West and Lyons are both 1-2, and Badin is 0-3. 
In the B League, which is called "less competitive" than the A Leagues, Siegfried B is first. followed by the graduate student team. BTTCG, and 2-2, and Breen-Phillips B and Lyons 
B. both at 1-3. 
"The B League is a lot of fun," said Siegfried captain Amy Bacigalupi. "It gives us all a chance to play and meet peo­ple in the dorm, and we have a good time." 
the fifth in seven games for the Bulls, 18-2 at home this season. It also snapped a three-game winning streak by Atlanta, which got 19 points from Cliff Levingston. 
Chicago coach Phil Jackson used his bench for most of the fourth quarter, putting eight players in double figures, in­cluding a career-high 15 points from rookie Stacey King. 
The game was tied at 6 when Chicago went on a 22-1 tear in span of 6:25. Chicago's biggest lead was 31-9, and the Bulls held a 35-15 lead after the first quarter, in which they sank 15 of 21 shots for 71 percent. The Hawks converted just 5-of-22 attempts for 23 percent. 
The Hawks got back in the contest when they shot 57 per­cent in the second period. They cut the margin to 54-46 when Jon Koncak made a pair of free throws with 1:41 left in the half. 
The Bulls Jed at the break 60­48, behind 14 points by Grant and 13 by Pippen. 
Atlanta pulled to 66-58 when Spud Webb scored at 8:43 of the third period. But Paxson and Jordan had 10 points apiece during the quarter as the Bulls increased their lead to 94-77 entering the final ueriod. 


FREE DELIVERY 
• fllll:ll CMISSMT • 
ClllCK[I SALAD • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • n.A SALAD ••• • • • ••• • • • • •• • ••  Z.10 Z.lO  
IWII lo CIIEEK  • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •  Z.10  
nllltEY  •••• ·•• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •  Z.10  
liT'L CltOlSSMT DIVM • • • • • • •  2.10  
- omu. Flllii&Sa  

Lettuce, '-'-• •t•• black olives 
"-""' .... lilt, .kl111no, Green 
-.a.----.._.n..Prololcn, Soriss 
111m '0$1. DIET, In'.llW, ••fl"'t,llOQT BEER,la.AoE ( WU. .6k LARG( .75cl lCD TEA .......7St IC COLA. CII[Mil RC AIID UPPER 10 : t9c-ltter SSe-can 3.00-si• pact 


page 12 The Observer Tuesday, January 30, 1990 
49ers plan changes in aftermath of Super Bowl victory 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

MEET a> INTERVIEW WITH 
Ford Motor Co.  Procter '&> Gamble  
General Electric  3M  Eli Lilly  
Southwestern Bell  Motorola · Cellular  Bristoi·Meyers·Squibb  
Cincinnati Bell  Northrop  Huntsman Chemical  
General Mills  ALCOA  ·  R'&lD  Occidental Petroleum  
Peps1 Food Systems  EDS  Baxter Healthcare  
Kraft/General Foods  LTV Steel  Goldman. Sachs'&> Co.  
United 'lechnologies  The Timken Co.  Anderson Consulting  
Carrier Corp.  Dean Witter/  Peterson Consulting  
Harns Bank '&> Trust  Discover Card  State Farm  
Aetna Life '&>  Allstate  The Kemper Group  
Casualty  Wyatt Consulting  Phillips Van Heusen  
Liberty Mutual  The GAP  David J. Joseph Co.  
The Travelers  Service Merchandise  Defense Logistic Agency  
W.H. Brady  Silo  

And Many Other Outstanding Employers At Careers '901 
Careers '90 college recruitment conferences will give you the opponunity to meet and interview with some of the nation's top employers. Over 5.000 seniors have attended past conferences. with :JI% receiving second interviews and almost 40% receiving at least one job offer AS A DIRECT RESULT OF THEIR CONFERENCE PARTICIPATION. You can meet and interview with employers who don't recruit at your school. or make an imponant second impression on those that you do interview with on campus. In either case, just one day at Careers '90 can enhance your choice of career options and significantly increase your chance of getting the job you want. with the employer yoll want. 
ENGINEERING, COMPUTER SCIENCE, MATH, 
BUSINESS, PHYSICAL 81. BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES 
AND LIBERAL ARTS are ~me of the majors. To be considered for a Careers '90 i~vitation. send an updated resume by February 10, 1990 to Careers '90. PO. Box 1852, New Haven. CT 06508. Your interests and credentials will be carefully reviewed by our experienced staff and compared to other seniors in your major discipline. Seniors whose qualifications and interests best match the requirements of panicipating Careers '90 employers will be invited to-attend. There is ABSOWTELY NO CHARGE to seniors who ;,ttend. 
Careers '90 ChicaQo ChicaQo Hilton February 27 and 28, 1990 
FOURTH ANNUAL 
-B~D!ID
Careers 
THE NATION'S #1 COLL~E RECRUITMENT CONFERENCES 
CELEBRATION 
~ 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
DAYTONA BEACH fromS129* 
THE REEF AND CAROUSEL HOTELS & KITCHENETTES • 7 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND fromS129* 
SHERATON CONDO & HOTEL, GULF VIEW, LANDFALL TOWER, SAIDA CONDOS, HOLIDAY INN • 5 OR 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT from s101 * 
SHADOW RUN CONDOS OR OVERLOOK HOTEL • 2, 5 OR 7 NIGHTS WITH ALL LIFTS • PICNIC -RACE 
FORT LAUDERDALE fromS132* 
LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL • 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND fromS127* 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND BEACH &TENNIS RESORT CONDOS • 7 NIGHTS 
CORPUS CHRISTI/MUSTANC: ISLAND fromS99* 
PORT ROYAL OCEAN RESORT CONDOS • 5 OR 7 NIGHTS 
DON•t DELAY! 
CENTRAL SPRING BREAK~~ INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 

1·800·321·5911 
7AM·7PM M·Th, 7AM·SPM Fri, 9AM·SPM Sat, Mountain Standard Time Reservations may be made by credil card 
lfl=ccr]il
24 HOUR FAX RESERVATIONS l303J 225-1514 
• Oependmq on break dares and renglh or slay 
NEW ORLhANS (AP) some unsolicited advice Before the victory parade had "The way I look at it, we begun, before all the cham-could take our same team and pagne stains had dried, the go back and play again next team of the decade and perhaps year," Montana said. "But I'm the century was plotting sure there will be changes changes. somewhere." 
It won't be a massive over-Two already have occurred. haul, San Francisco coach Pete Kugler, who started George Seifert hopes. But the eight games at nose tackle 49ers lost two regulars and a while Michael Carter was in­coach from last year's Super jured, announced his retirement Bowl champions, and indica-last week. Jeff Fuller. an tions are they'll change even emerging star at strong safety, more before the "three-peat" had his career cut short in bid starts in earnest. October by a nerve injury that 
"The team will change some-has left his right arm para­what," Seifert said Monday, the Iyzed. He will undergo nerve day after the 49ers' 55-10 rout graft surgery at Stanford of Denver in the Super Bowl. University Hospital next "Every year's different and an Monday. entity unto itself. We just have Offensive coordinator Mike to be ready for that, and we'll Holmgren, whose stock wasn't talk about our plans on the hurt by the franchise record for plane ride home. Change is a points on Sunday, talked to the natural process." New York Jets the next morn-
The 49ers flew home to a ing about their head coaching Market Street parade in down-vacancy. He's also a candidate town San Francisco later for the Phoenix job, and Monday. But by Thursday's Montana said he thinks his Plan H deadline, some of them coach is gone. may be on the way to futures There are others who may with other teams. not return. 
Joe Montana, who stopped by Cornerback Tim McKyer said the news conference with his earlier he wanted to be traded, wife and son to pick up the keys although his comments after to his third Super Bowl MVP the game were uncharacteristi­car, gave the 49ers' front office cally low-key and team-ori-
Few celebrations as Broncos return home 
DENVER (AP) -There players and their wives had We did some great things were no parades or recep­their hands full with shop­this year. but we didn't play tions for the Denver Broncos ping bags from New Orleans' as well as we're capable," 
on Monday. They didn't want French Quarter. Reeves said. any, either. Most players and coaches Wide receiver Vance 
Hanging their heads and at first declined media re­Johnson echoed what seemed looking glum as they de­quests for comments, but to be the sentiments of most planed, a subdued bunch of later spoke with reporters as of the team. Broncos came home after they waited for their lug­
losing 55-10 to San gage. "We're just glad to be Francisco in Sunday's Super Noticeably quiet was quar· alive," Johnson said. Bowl. terback John Elway, whose The Broncos' 45-point de­
The Broncos are 0-4 in the only brush with the crowd feat was the worst SupN Super Bowl, including three came when he returned to Bowl loss ever. losses in the last four years. search for his luggage. 
The team returned on a Coach Dan Reeves at­Meanwhile, about 50 chartered United Air1ines tributed the loss to the diehard fans cheered outside flight, which arrived at a 49ers' effectiveness. the hangar gates, despite re­hangar about a half mile "We knew Joe Montana quests by Broncos manage­north of Stapleton was going to be great going ment that no one be present International Airport. Many in. They're just a great team. for their arrival. 
ented.  Backup  quarterback  San Francisco lost only two  third straight Super Howl. So  
Steve_ Young has indicated he  players to Plan B free agency a  do NFC West foes New Orleans  
wants to talk to the team this  year  ago  - tight  end  Ron  and the Los Angeles Rams, both  
week about his future, and if he  Heller  to  Atlanta and  safety  considered  among  the  NFL's  
insists on a trade the 49ers say  Greg  Cox  to  the  New  York  top half dozen or so teams at  
they'll  accommodate  him.  Giants ­ but contract disputes  season's end.  
Backup tailback and kickoff re­ disrupted training camp. Nine  
turner Terrence Flagler may  players held out for most of the  "The goal we can set is doing  
also insist  on  a  trade.  Nickel  summer, and similar negotia­ something no one else has ever  
back  Eric  Wright  probably  tions  problems  pose  another  done, and that is trying to win  
won't be protected.  obstacle in the attempt to win a  three in a row," Montana said.  

.----------------------­
------~~ -~ 
Tuesday, January 30, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Syracuse holds off St. John's; Hawkeyes down Illinois 
NEW YORK (AP) -Billy Owens and Stephen Thompson each scored 22 points and had Syracuse's final field goals of the game as the seventh-ranked Orangemen held off No. 18 St. John's 70-65 on Monday night. 
Syracuse (15-3, 6-3) never trailed in the game but couldn't put the Redmen away. The Or­angemen did knock St. John's (17 -5, 6-3) from a first-place tie with Connecticut in the Big East. 
St. John's got within 61-59 with 4:05 to play when Mailk Sealy made one of two free throws. 
Syracuse's Derrick Coleman, who finished with seven points, 11 below his average, then made one free throw -his only point of a foul-plagued second half-with 3:24 to play. 
Fifty-eight seconds later, Owens hit a driving bank shot with 12 seconds left on the 45­second shot clock for a 64-59 lead. Sealy, who finished with 16 points, made two free throws with 2:01 to get St. John's within 64-61. 

So many choices to make. So many things to consider. Is it worth the effort? Will I be happy? Will I be fulfilled? 
Fulfillment comes with doing what you love and doing it well ... Using your tal­ents in an atmosphere where personal growth is encouraged. 
The Paulists can offer you a life. A life of commitment to people. Helping the lost and alienated find a spiritual home. Us­ing radio, television, film and other contem­porary means to spread the Gospel. Working with other Christians for unity and seeking a deeper understanding with other world religions. 
If you're looking for 1/fe... not just a career. choose the Paulists. For more Information caii1-8D0-235-3456. 
Choose 
a 

life... not justa career. 

Or write, Father John F. Duffy, C.S.P., Paulist Fathers Vocation Office 415 West 59th Street. New York, NY 1 0019 
Thompson then made a three­point play as he went low and nailed a layup as he was fouled by Billy Singleton. That was Syracuse's last field goal of the game and just its third in the 
. final 8:56 of the game. 
Iowa 692
No. 11 Illinms 67 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP)-Les Jepsen scored 18 points, includ­ing the winning layup with two seconds to play, to rally strug­gling Iowa to a 69-67 victory 
Paddock 
continued from page 16 
tributes for granted," says Paddock. 
Paddock's main physical at­tribute is his size, and he uses it to his advantage on the basket­ball court. At 6 feet, 9 inches and 245 pounds, Paddock is hard for opposing centers to move once he establishes posi­tion inside. Consequently he is an excellent rebounder. 
"Scott's size and strength, when he uses it the right way, help him muscle inside and make things happen. He's very limited offensively, and I think he knows that and everybody knows that, but when he plays like he did the other night (against Wichita-State this past Wednesday), he gets 13 points and 12 rebounds," says Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. 
Indeed, Paddock had perhaps the best game of his career against the Shockers when Keith Robinson got himself into early foul trouble. Paddock came off the bench to spark the Irish with two shattering dunks and a blocked shot en route to tying his career highs in both points and rebounds. 
And the fans, particularly a girl named Tess Fahey, cheered him on wholeheartedly. 


Jl 
GtfAT ANERIC-\N® 

INSURANCE COMPANIES THE UNCOMMON OPPORRINITY. 
learn more about our Personal Insurance Marketing Management Program. 
Contact your Career Planning Placement Center to schedule an interview. 
over No. 11 Illinois Monday night. 
Iowa, which had lost seven of its last eight games, improved to 10-8 overall and 2-6 in the Big Ten. Illinois, which has dropped 21 of the last 24 games at Carver-Hawkeye Arena, fell to 15-4, 5-4. 
Jepsen's layup down the right side capped a rally that saw Iowa erase a 46-37 Illinois lead with a 12-2 run and grab a 49­48 lead with 12:14 remaining. 
Illinois' Marcus Liberty scored eight straight points as 

the Illini opened a 56-52 edge· with 7:45 left. James Moses' basket brought Iowa back to within 58-56, but a basket by Irvin Small and a 3-point shot by Steve Bardo put Illinois back on top 65-58 with 3:21 remain­ing. 
Liberty scored the last Illinois basket of the game with 1:44 left and Iowa chipped away at the lead, with Jepsen and Matt Bullard scoring from close range, followed by four straight points by James Moses. 
"Tess hasn't missed a Notre Dame basketball game in 8 years, and she always adopts a player who comes in the pro­gram. I was fortunate enough to be the one that she picked, and we've come to grow close to each other," says Paddock. 
Paddock realizes that he is not a tremendous scoring threat on the court. Because of this, he is very conscious of finding the open man when he gets the ball. This often results in an easy basket for his team­mates, such as the dunk Paddock fed sophomore Keith Tower for this past Saturday against Miami. 
Paddock has been making plans for after graduation, and he credits Phelps for helping take advantage of every oppor­tunity. He realizes his chances of playing basketball profes­sionally are limited, so he is ex­ploring his alternatives. 

"Coach Phelps emphasizes being prepared for when your basketball career is over," says Paddock, "He requires us (the 
seniors) to have two job inter­views before we are allowed to start practice. As a result of that, I've been interviewing a lot this semester, and I had a chance Thursday, when he let .ae miss practice, to go to Chicago to meet with some rep­resentatives from a firm there called McMaster/Carr, and I was offered the job." 
Says Phelps, "I think there's something after basketball (for my players), and I don't want basketball to dominate their lives while they're here. I think Scott typifies what we try to do with our student-athletes." 
And as a person who has spent a lot of time helping others, Paddock feels Notre Dame is a place with a very special feeling. 
"Many people say that there is a feeling about Notre Dame that you can't describe," says Paddock, "Well I think you can. Over the years I've come to know a lot of tremendous peo­ple associated with the University, and it's just the people around the University and the South Bend community who make it what it is." 
Graduate Fellowships for Women in Science and Engineering 
We are pleased to announce that The Catholic University ofAmerica has been selected as an original recipient of one of the initial grants of the Claire Booth Luce Fund, a program of The Henry Luce Foundation. 
Three two-year graduate fellowships for women are offered in science (biology, chemistry, or physics) and engineering. Each of the three women selected will receive approximately $23,000 a year beginningin fall1990. 
Applicants should submit transcripts, GRE scores, a one­page letter ofprofessional intent, and letters from two 
academic referees by March 1, 1990, to:  
The Coordinator ofGraduate Student Services 300 McMahon Hall, Dept. W  CUA  
'I'HE CATHOLIC UNIVERSrrY OF AMERICA  ~  
W~n,D.C.20064 202-635--5057  \Y  



page 14 The Observer Tuesday, January 30, 1990 
Arkansas continues to gain ground in college hoops' poll 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP)­Arkansas coach Nolan Richardson told his Razorbacks last week that if they won their next five games, they'd be ranked in the top five. 
This week, he has a new mes­sage. 
Arkansas beat Houston and Texas in Fayetteville last week, then went on the road and knocked off Alabama­Birmingham. On Monday, the Razorbaeks climbed from sixth to third, their highest ranking since they were No. 1 for one week in 1978. 
"Now, I'm telling them that if we win our next four games, we could be No. 1," Richardson said. 
lnterhall basketball action heats up 
By RICHARD MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 
The men's lnterhall basket­

ball season is in full swing 
again. 
The A division. has been split 

up into three conferences, all 
with strong teams to contend 
for the title. 
The program is run by Tim Sullivan of Non-Varsity Athletics, who sides as a player for the Flanner A-2 team. He says that every team will play each team in its conference once, but there will be no inter­conference play until the play­offs. The two top teams in each conference will qualify for the playoffs making a total of six playoff teams. 
The strongest conference appears to be the ACC which features defending champion Morrisey A-1 (3-0). They will be tested by Sorin (3-0) and Dillon (2-0). Morrisey A-I seems to be the general favorite of the cap­tains of the other squads. They are led by slam dunk contest champion Dorsey Levins, who is also known for his talents on the football field. Their team from last year was split up to form another Morrsey team, but Morrisey A-1 retained the starting players. 
"We need to play good hard defense to compete with them," says Sorin captain Tom Zidar, referring to his teams upcoming game with Morrisey A-1 on Feb. 7. His team is led by freshman Eric Jones, who also plays football. 
Dillon also has an impor­tant matchup with Morrisey A­1 on Jan. 31. Captain Mark Granger feels that his team will have to "keep the score low and rebound with them because we have a young team with four freshmen and three sopho­mores." He'll look to junior Jim Ellis and freshman Mike Livingston for big games if they hope to defeat the champions. 
In the Big 10 Conference, the other half of the Morrisey split squad, Morrisey A-2 (4-0) leads the division. Despite los­ing starter Jim Toohey to transfer, Morrsey A-2 remains the onl}" undefeated team in the Big 10. They have two games against top contenders Holy Cross (2-1) on Feb. 1 and Pangborn (2-1) on Feb. 12. 
"Pangborn is very big in­side and I don't really know about Holy Cross, but our team 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
said McGraw. "She kept us in 
control and was the steady fac­
tor that she usually is . She re­
ally stood out tonight." 
Liebscher and the rest of the 
Notre Dame squad will attempt 
to continue its conquest of the 
MCC Thursday night against St. 
Louis at 7:30p.m. in the JACC. 

Top-ranked Missouri and No. 2 Kansas meet on Feb. 13, and both teams must still play No. 9 Oklahoma twice. 
Arkansas (17 -2 overall and 8­0 in the Southwest Conference) plays at Rice on Wednesday and at Texas on Sunday. Next week, the Razorbacks play Texas Tech at home and Baylor on the road. 
Richardson insists the Razorbacks aren't looking ahead, but adds, "If it happens that sometime in the future that we're ranked No. 1, we'll be glad to get there." 
"Being ranked this high is good for recruiting and for our fans but I also think it reflects well on om players and the 
JUNIORS 
SEATING FOR THE JPW DINNER AND ~ BRUNCH WILL BE HELD AT THE CCE ~ FROM 2-10 PM, MON. JAN 29TH AND 
TUES. JAN 30TH. ~ 
THREE FAMILIES WILL BE ALLOWED ~ 
PER TABLE, WITH A MAXIMUM OF ~ THREE TABLES PER GROUP ­EACH JUNIOR IS ALLOWED TO 
~ 
PRESENT A MAXIMUM OF 9 I.D.s. 
~ 
QUESTIONS? CALL 239-6028 ~I • Black Cultural Arts. e t BETWEEN 7-9PM MON-THURS. 
--~---~----------~--~--------~.~:.•••••••••••••••••••: 
things they've done," he said. "I hope we can play up to that level because if we are the third best team in the country. it means we must have a chance to make the Final Four." 
The No. 3 ranking is the highest for a Richardson­coached team. His Tulsa squad reached No. 6 when Paul Pressey was a senior in 1982. 
Missouri (19-1) held the top spot for the second straight week with 59 first-place votes and 1,569 points from the na­tionwide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters. The Tigers struggled to beat Rutgers 89­84 last week, then easily de­feated Colorado. 
Kansas (20-1 ). which was No. 
1 for two weeks before losing to Missouri on Jan. 20, received the other four first-place votes and 1,510 points. 
Michigan and Duke each moved up three spots, with the Wolverines climbing to No. 4 and the Blue Devils to No. 5. Michigan downed Big Ten rivals Northwestern and Michigan State last week, while Duke beat North Carolina State and Georgia Tech in the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
Georgetown fell from third to sixth after losing to Syracuse, which rose four spots to No. 7. Louisville dropped from fourth to 1Oth after losing to DePaul and UNLV plunged from fifth to 12th after losing to LSU. 
Purdue, the surprising Big Ten leader, rose from No. 13 to No.8. 
Illinois is 11th, followPd by UNLV, Connecticut, LSU, La Salle, UCLA, Georgia Tech, St. John's, Minnesota and Loyola Marymount. 
Hounding out the Top 25 arn Oregon State, Indiana, Xavier, Ohio, Arizona and North Carolina. The Tar Heels' moved back into the rankings after a four-week absence. 
Alabama fell out of the rank­ings aftnr losing to Tennessee. 

is small and quick," said cap­tain Ed Larkin comparing the teams. The team is led by Jim Cox, Tom Hester and Larkin. 
• The final conference is the Big Sky, which appears to be the most balanced. Stanford leads the division at 4-0, but Grace (3-0), Zahm (2-1) and Cavanaugh (2-1) are all right at their heels. 
"We feel very fortunate to be 4-0, some of those games could have gone either way," said Stanford captain Ray Flannery. His team displays a very unselfish attitude and passes very well. Forward Rob Vazquez averages 20 points per game, but is complemented by forwards Tom O'Connell and Greg O'Leary. 


--~-~ 
Tuesday, January 30, 1990 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Tuesday 
3:30 p.m. Lecture, "Toward an Understanding of the molecur Basis of Solubility in Supercritical Fluids," by professor Pablo Debenedetti, School of Engineering and Applied Scienee, Dept. of Chemical Engineering, Princeton University. Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. Refreshments, 3 
p.m. room 181. Sponsored by Dept. of Chemical Engineer­ing. 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Role of Compaction in Determining Sandstone Porosity," by David Houseknecht, American Association of Petroleum Geologists. Earth Sciences building. Sponsored by the Department of Earth Sciences. 
CAMPUS 

Tuesday 
7 p.m. Film, "Casablanca." Annenberg Auditol"ium. Sponsored by ND communications and Theatre. 
7 p.m. Film and conversation, "The Weavers: Wasn't That a Time!" by Hobert Hohl, referenee and instruction librarian. Carroll Hall. Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Justiee Education Series, 'The Courage of Our Convic­tions." 
9 p.m. Avant Garde Films. Annenberg Auditorium. Spon­sored by ND communications and Theatre. 
Wednesday 
12:10 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous. Holy Cross House. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Fried Fish Boats Pasta Bar Hot Ham and Swiss Hoagie 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 



ACROSS 
1 Holbrook or Linden 4 Horner's reward &Whimper 12 Soft drinks 
14 Hayworth or Moreno 15 Strayed 16 Split 11 Obese 19 Theme 21 More tranquil 
22 Seashore sales 
25 Standout 
26 Orientals, e.g. 
28 Worships 32 Press for payment 34 Chew the 
scenery 36 Farm building 37 Needy 41 Lyric poems 42 Threefold 43 Men and boys 44 Sally forth 47 Scenarist's 
product 49 Glacial ridges 51 Russian rustic 
cart 53 Rigidly exact 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
55 Antilles island 57 Comprehend 61 Brother of Faisal 62 Chaplain 63-squad 64 Gaelic 65 Baden-Baden 
and Ems 66 Track figures 67 Lair 
DOWN 1 Damage 2 Adieu, in Madrid 3 Southpaw 
4 Golf-club V.I.P. 5 Actress Ullmann 6 Navajo's foe 
7 Traveler Polo 8 Kind of path 9Prod 
10 Comic Lou 11 N.Y. summer time 13 Pig pads 15 Hunted lampreys 

post in Pakistan
~U!~·· 18 Historic frontier 
20 Advertising throwaway 
23 Aladdin's was magic 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

24 Stable sound 27 Agitates 29 College 
linesman 30 Gen. Rob't­31 Upgrades the 
lawn 32Twosomes 33 Tear down 
35 Oust 

THE FAR SIDE 
38 Legal necessaries 39 Concerning 40 Bulwer-Lytton novel 45 Rhone feeder 46 Corn units 48 Dark grayish blue 50 Kind of rocket 52 Manhandle 
53 Lead-pipe cinch 
54 Icelandic work 
56 Arabia's Gulf of 
57 Periods of prosperity 58 Assist 59 Acknowledge silently 60 Skid-row affliction 
GARY LARSON 
.. 

I'M FA\3l!LOU5lY I WU2 ON DA NATIONAL CHAW\PiO/I!SHIP I£Af'l1
WEALTHY, BA 13£ 
Sill E t'T CH£ECKS. Hdv.i

vlANNA SEE MY 
'BovT A ?\ZII/Af£ GA{l')fPoRCH£ 7 

Of' TOIXH R>drBNL ~ATCR r 
STUDENT UNION BOARD
Sign-ups for "0f:!/ llrffifr ®ILlC ®~ fr 1r@1illIlITil ~ IIllil®ITilfr ~ and IB3 ®1Tilcdln~ w@@@~ llllll]p) 
5-7 PM beginning Monday, January 29 thru Wednesday, January 31 in the SUB Office 
Sports
PC!9e_16 

Tuesday, January 30, 1990 
Liebscher Irish ignore numbers keys Irish in battle with Dayton 
over Aces 

By BARB MORAN Flyers searching for first road victory 
Sports Writer 

in history of series with Notre Dame 
Sara Liebscher tossed in a game-high 20 points and cruiting class in the last decade
By GREG GUFFEY

grabbed 10 rebounds to lead at Dayton.
Assistant Sports Editor

the Notre Dame women's bas­Senior guard Negele Knight ketball team to its seventh It could be a mathematieian's leads the pot1mt Flyer attack at straight MCC victory , a 79 -45 dream when Notre Dame meets 19.5 points per game, while fel­victory over Evansville at home Dayton in men's basketball ac­low guard Hay Springer adds Monday night. tion tonight at 7::10 in the .Joyce 8.2 points per contest. Senior 
The cards fell against the ACC. forwards Anthony Corbitt and Aces from the start, as the The Irish pounded Miami Noland Hobinson average 15.4 Irish (12-6) jumped to a 12-4 (Fla.) 107-60 last Saturday, but and 10.6 points per game. lead early in the first half. But those same Hurricanes edged Sophomom center Wes Coff!~e the Aces weren't ready to throw the Flyers 8 7-82 earlier this ( 4. 7 ppg) is the lone under­in the towel and employed sev­season in Miami. classman in the starting quin­eral defenses in an attempt to Mathematically, that should tet. confuse the Irish. Switching make Notre Dame 52 points The Flyers also boast depth rapidly between a box-in-one, a better than Dayton. on the bench, with eight players triangle-and-two, and man-to­But don't try to sell that scoring at least two points per man, Evansville cut the Irish formula to Digger Phelps and game. Junior Norm Grevey lead to two points with 12 min­the Irish players. leads the reserves, scoring 9.9 utes left to play in the half. "That was early in the year points per game. 
The two-point difference and that was at Miami," Phelps "I think their seniors are proved to be the closest the said. "We have always had ex­playing very very well," Phelps Aces would come to taking the cellent games against Dayton, said. "They have people coming lead, as the Irish offense began both up here and down there. off the bench who can shoot the to click and the shots began to The fact that we play each ball." 
fall. other twice adds to the rivalry." Dayton sports a 4-2 
"We did a pretty good job The two teams will meet Midwestern Collegiate identifying the changing de­"We didn't play well defen­Irish back into the game. again in Dayton on Feb. 28. Conference mark and has won fenses," said Irish coach Muffet sively at all," said the coach. The Notre Dame women fin­The Flyers bring an 11-6 its last three contests, all 
McGraw. "Normally, [the "We weren't talking, we didn't ished strong, scoring continu­record into tonight's contest, league games. One more win 
switching defenses! would have pick up, we just didn't do what ously for the final four minutes one victory better than Notre will match last season's total of been a problem for us, but we were supposed to do defen­and ending the game 34 points Dame's 10-6 mark. 12. tonight we handled them very sively." ahead of their opponents. It's a season of new and old The Irish are riding three 
well." Despite McGraw's apprehen­McGraw, though disappointed at Dayton. New is coach Jim streaks. They have won two 
With the help of 10 points by sion about her team's defensive with her team's execution of O'Brien, who replaced long­consecutive games after a 3-3 junior guard Karen Robinsor abilities, the Irish had little dif­the man-to-man defense, was time Flyer mentor Don roadtrip, seven straight at and eight by classmate Sara ficulty extending their lead in pleased with their offensive Donoher. O'Brien served the home and 15 in games against 
Liebscher. the Irish took a the second half. Sloppy play by play, especially the efforts of previous two years as an assis­the Flyers at the JACC. Notre commanding 41-25 lead at both teams led to a five-minute Liebscher, whose game-high 20 tant coach for the New York Dame has won the last seven halftime. stretch in which each team points was also a career high. Knicks. Before that, he coached contests overall with the Flyers Despite this strong 16-point could muster only one field goal Her seven assists also tied her Wheeling .Jesuit College, an by an average of 11.7 points. lead going into the half, apiece, but two free throws by career record. NAIA school in West Virginia. Sophomore LaPhonso Ellis McGraw was disappointed with Robinson and a seven-point "Sara played extremely well," O'Brien inherited a strong leads the Irish with 16.6 points 

her team's performance in its shooting spree by senior for­man-to-man defense. ward Lisa Kuhns snapped the see IRISH I page 14 
Eruzione still a hockey legend 
Do you believe Mikita in pursuit. The whole episode ended in miracles? with Mikita "accidentally" dousing the Notre On February 22, KenTysiac Dame bench with water supposedly meant for 
1980 you proba­Eruzione.
Sports Writer
bly did. On that The capacity crowd roared as the Irish date, the United stars wrung out their jerseys. Ten years after States the fact people still love the man who scored Olympic hockey team defeated the Soviet the winning goal against the Soviets and latm 
Union 4-3 in Lake Plaeid in one of the great­touched the heats of a nation by proudlyflst upsets in the history of sports. singing the Star Spangled Banner as Old Now. almost 10 years later, Mike Eruzione Glory was raised during the medal ceremony. and some of his former teammates are in the Why are he and his ex-chums still so popu­limelight once again, trying to bring the lar? Olympie dmam to life for others. Four 1980 "I think it was the timing of the event. The gold medal winners and several other hostages were in Iran, the Soviets had in­celebrities visited the Joyce ACC this past vaded Afghanistan, and the country needed 
.. 
Sunday to meet a team of former Notre something to rally behind. I guess that's why Dame h()(·key greats in a game which bene­so many people were behind us." reminisces fited the Special Olympics. Eruzione. 
"We've been doing this for four years People are still behind them. Children who now," says Eruzione, "It's just a great way to are much too young to remember the Games raise money for the Special Olympics here in flocked by the hundreds toward the locker South Bend and for other charities in other room area and eagerly thrust pens, sticks places." and programs toward their heroes as soon 
Ex-Oiympians .Jim Craig, Eric Strobel and as they left the ice. Jack ()'Callahan joined Eruzione and celebri­Not many of the players from the gold ties sueh as Hichard Dean Anderson from medal-winning team had great success in the MacGyt,er and Steve Gianelli from Cheers on National Hockey League (only Neal Broten, an All-Star team which beat the former Irish Mike Ramsey, Dave Christian and Mark stars by a score of 7-6. But the scoreboard Johnson still play in the NHL). For his part, didn't matter much--the objective of the Eruzione retired from hockey immediately afternoon was to entertain the crowd and after the Games and has worked in broad­raise money for the Special Olympies. casting and done speaking engagements since 
"We all just try to have fun out there. then. People don't come here to see us play hockey, lie donates some of his time to help others because we're not very good," says Eruzione as well, allowing others to enjoy the thrill of with a smile. an Olympic competition just as Special as the 
On the ice, Eruzione was quite the clown. one he experienced in 1980. The man who Early in the third period, he feigned an injury fired the wrist shot heard round the world falling to the ice and clutching his knee. continues to endear himself to fans around Teammate Stan Mikita (of Chicago the country; his charity, as well as his dra­Blackhawks fame) skated up to Eruzione matic goal with 10:00 left in a game at Lake with what appeared to be a bucket full of ice. Placid 10 years ago, assures him of a place 
Eruzione jumped to his feet and taunted am~mg hockey's favorite miracle makers. \1ikita, andJQo! ofT for the I~E>h bench with nucleus of six seniors, four of whom start. That class was see FlYEAS I page 1 0 once labelled as the best re-
PaddOCk finds life beyond basketball through community service projects 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 

As a senior on the Notre Dame basketball team, for­ward/center Scott Paddock has a goal for his team. 
"We (the seniors) realize that this is our last opportunity to make a run at the National Championship, and to end our careers on a sour note isn't the way we want to go out." 
But Paddock also realizes that there is more to life than basketball. He is a shining ex­ample of a student-athlete who goes to great lengths to help people who are less fortunate than himself. He participates in the Big Brothers of St. Joseph Valley program and Heins of Life campaign for the handi­capped. 
Paddock's Little Brother is Hoy Dowdy, a freshman at St. Joseph's High School. Dowdy lost his father when he was five years old, and because of that Paddock says Dowdy never had anybody to motivate him or push him to excel. Paddock tries to provide that motivation, and says that he has benefited 
The Observer 1Scott McCann from the program just as much 
Scott Paddock tied two career
as Dowdy has. 

highs in points and rebounds
Paddock also helps a girl 
against Wichita State last week

named Tess Fahey in t.he Reins of Life program. Ffl'bey IS con­"With the Big Brother pro­fined to a wheelchair, and part gram I've learned not to take of her therapy consists of my parents and my family life stretching exercises and horse­for granted, and with the Reins 
back riding. Paddock assists of Life program I've learned her in her exercises and walks not to take my physical at-beside her while she rides the 
see PADDOCK I page 13
horse. 



