.. : r 

Special to the Observer 
Thomas Morris, associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, has been named 1990 Indiana Professor of the Year by the Council for the Ad­vancement and Support of Edu­cation (CASE). 
According to CASE, the Pro­fessor of the Year program salutes the most outstanding undergraduate instructors in each state in the country, espe­cially those who excel as teach­ers and influence the lives and careers of their students and former students. 
Aself-proclaimed "intellectual evangelist," Morris said he seeks to convince people of the importance of ideas and to show people that thinking about philosophical issues can be productive. 
"Sometimes," he said, "especially in the modern world, we feel like we're lost in the woods without a map or a compass. Philosophers are just cartographers of the spirit, map makers of the human journey. That's the importance of philosophy, to help us get out bearings, to help us get our orientation in life." 
"These philosophical topics that I deal with on a daily basis, these are the most important ideas that anybody could ever think about, and so I've got to get the word out." he said. 
Morris credits his success to his unique approach to teach­ing. "I ask myself what it will take to help the students make the transition from the dining hall, from their dorm room. I want to help wake some people up because that gets their bod­ies and their minds at a little bit higher level of alertness and awareness and then I can use that level of alertness for the ideas that I want to present." 
According to Morris, every 

What did you say? 
Spotters from the 82nd Airborne listen as their division's Sheridan tanks perform live fire exercises over the weekend. American forces in Saudi Arabia are now engaging in such drills to calibrate their weapons. 
Most rape victims do not file charges against attackers 
By JOE MOODY 
they give permission, someone Assistant News Editor in Residence Life will draft
CAMPUS 
charges against the accused person."
Because few victims actually Pawlicki emphasized that re­
RAPE
file charges against their at­
porting a rape and following it 
tackers, it may seem that rape up is not always easy. "We try
does not occur on the Notre to be realistic in letting them
"We don't contact outside
Dame campus. 
[victims] know that there are
agencies unless they [victims]
According to Elizabeth 
going to be tough parts in pur­ask," she said.
Pawlicki, assistant director of suing a case, because they're
Residence Life ensures that
Residence Life, this is an incor­going to have to recount their
victims receive medical atten­
rect assumption. "It does hap­story," she said. 
tion and advises them of both
pen here," she said. 
"We don't give them a false
on and off-campus support
An average of eight to ten 
sense that it's not going to be
services available to help the
students report a rape each 
tough at times."
victims deal with emotional
Publicity policy/ page 7 The accused person has the
trauma. On-campus options for 
right to face his or her accuser.
rape victims include University
year, estimates Notre Dame's If the accused person denies the 
Counseling Center and Campus
Office of Residence Life. Less charges, Residence Life looks atMinistry, Pawlicki said. 
than a quarter of these victims the evidence to see which ar­
Residence Life also outlines
actually follow up on the inci­gument is more convincing and
the options of reporting the
dent. 
credible, Pawlicki said. 
rape to Notre Dame Security or
"There are times when a stu­
Residence Life conducts a
the South Bend Police. "We
dent will come and report that hearing with the victim and the
don't say 'You have to,' or 'You
they were a victim, or that they accused person both present,
must,' do anything," Pawlicki
are investigating a situation 'for which is heard by the adminis­
said. "The decision is theirs.
a friend'," Pawlicki said. 
tration. "A two to three person
Making a report does not imply
In these cases, Residence life panel of Residence Life staff
filing charges. It just gets the
will outline the victim's options, hears the case and renders theincident on the record." 
according to Pawlicki. Victims decision."
Victims may also pursue the
are not required to give their The panel will read the vic­
case through University chan­
names or the name of the al­
tim's statement if he or she
nels. "We ask them to write us
leged perpetrator when they does not wish to speak, said
a statement about what the in­
report the incident, and the of­Pawlicki. The penalty for rape
cident was about in as much
fice keeps every step in the re­is normally suspension or ex­
detail as they can," Pawlicki
porting process confidential. 
pulsion from the University. 
said. "Then, based on t~at, if 
Observer Staff Report 
Indiana colleges and universi­ties would be required to de­velop drug education and ser­vice plans for students and workers under a recommenda­tion of Governor Evan Bayh's Commission for a Drug-Free Indiana. 
The commission's report, called "Toward a Drug-Free Indiana: A Strategic Report to the Governor," was issued this month by its 15-member steer­ing committee, including Uni­versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy. 
In supporting comprehensive drug abuse prevention and in­tervention programs for Indi­ana's post-secondary educa­tional institutions, the Commis­sion noted that the 150,000 traditional-age students thus affected make up the largest block of highest-risk individuals in the state. 
"Alcohol is the most prevalent drug of abuse on Indiana's col­lege campuses and needs to be the main focus of attention," the report said. "The next gen­eration of opinion leaders now resides on Indiana's college and university campuses. If we want to have an impact on [their] drug-related attitudes, beliefs, 
see DRUGS I page 5 


Professor Thomas Morris 
gimmick he uses must contain a hint of some greater philosoph­ical message. "I would never just bring a football or a base­ball and toss it around the room unless it made a philosophical point of some sort. When we throw a frisbee, we always throw at targets. Does the frisbee hit the target? Does the idea hit the target? There has to be some carry over." 
Recently Morris was featured as part of the University Lec­turers Series on The Learning Channel. His introduction to philosophy lecture, "The Ethics of Everyday Life" is airing on cable in October. 
For the last seven years, Morris has directed a summer seminar for elementary and secondary school teachers on Pascal's Pensees, funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities. 
In addition, for three sum­mers he has taught in the Elderhostel program for retired persons. He has found speaking with school, church and com­munity organizations especially rewarding. 
Two professors at the Uni­versity of North Carolina in­spired Morris to his vocation. "The first time in my life my eyes were opened to the ex­citement of ideas was when I was sitting in the lecture rooms 
Drug ed prescribed for Indiana schools 
with those two professors. And I have gone into the teaching of big classes in hopes of being able to pass on a little spark of that to other students.", he said. 
Morris was surprised when CASE announced he had been named 1990 Indiana Professor of the Year. "There are a lot of very good universities and col­leges in the state of Indiana, more than thirty," he said. "And I know a lot of dedicated faculty members in the state, who are very creative, devoted to their teaching, who are sterling researchers. And so it was a big surprise and a real great honor.' 
"I've always tried to use my own creativity to develop new ways of communicating with the students," he said, "because I am firmly convinced that standing in front of a room of people and talking is not the same thing as teaching." 
AP Photo
In the spotlight 
President Bush shields his eyes from the bright lights as he answers reporters' questions Monday in Washington. Bush said the command structure in Saudi Arabia will work smoothly 

page 2 The Observer Wednesday, September 19, 1990 


















INSIDE COLUMN WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 19. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
Taking a bite out of the 'real life' thing 
Yesterday's High: 64 Yesterday's Low: 45 Nation's High: 101 
(Bullhead City, Ariz.) Nation's Low: 26
Becky Pichler 
(Watertown, N.Y.) 
Leonardo da Vinci 
once made note of 
Assitant 
Forecast:
"the man who with 
perpetual longing Viewpoint 
Cloudy today with a 30 percent chance of
looks forward with 
Editor 
morning showers. The
joy to each new 
high will be in the 70's.
spring and the new 
Clear and cool tonight with a low of 50. Sunny 
months and the new 
years, deeming that --------­
the things he longs 
and warmer tomorrow 
with a high in the mid-70's. 
for are too slow in 
coming; and he does not perceive that he is longing for his own destruction." 
Although timeless in their applicability, these words are particularly apropos for 
® © ~ ~ IT] ~ 0 X
those of us who are currently anxious to 
" 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
know what our post-graduate life will hold. 
While freshmen are receiving their fill of the 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
much warmed-over "What is your major," seniors are dishing out large servings of (in)decision when asked about their plans 
OF INTEREST 
after graduation. 
Industry Day for all engineering students is being The Notre Dame Council on International
But regardless of where we are in our 
held today. The Career Fair is 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on the Business Development is having an orientation today and
path of life's progression, it seems 
first and second floors of Fitzpatrick Hall. The banquet Thursday at 7 p.m. in 220 Hayes-Healy. Attendance atinevitable that our thoughts lie in the ex­begins this evening at 5:30 p.m. at the South Bend only one session is necessary. All majors welcome.
pectancy of time future. And in the process, Marriott. A United Limo bus will shuttle students betweenwe gobble up time-literally. I am talking the main circle and Marriott beginning at 5 p.m. Saint Mary's Women for the Environment willabout a phenomenon called food panic, a 
have a meeting tonight at 9 p.m. in the Haggar
condition which should raise only the Artist Maria Henle will present a slide lecture Chameleon Room (Room 251}. 
eyebrows of those folk who actually put on her work with New York's Printmaking Workshopdown their forks during a meal. 
today at 4 p.m. in the Cushwa-Leighton Library media Senior Formal Committee Applications 
can bowl of popcorn, potato chips or M&M's Or the ones who have sat in front of a 
center at Saint Mary's College. be picked up at the Student Activities Office in LaFortune without continually considering the replen­
or the Haggar Center at Saint Mary's and must be ishing of that which has just made a bee­
returned by Wed., Sept. 26. 
An information session for an students 
line from their hand to their mouth. The searching for a graduate school in international affai:s 
1990 Dome yearbooks can be picked up this
same holds true during the consumption of and/or peace studies will take place today at 4:15 p.m. m week during the afternoon at 311 LaFortune. Studentsa salad. No matter how civilized we pretend Room 121 of the Law School. Prof. George Lopez, Fellow, must have an ID to get their yearbook. 
to be our fork invariably flies into a fit, Institute for International Peace Studies will host the 
making repeated stabs at unassuming 
session. 
pieces of lettuce and tomato. 
Career Exploration Programs ~nformation 
Perhaps my associating the frenzied mo­
Night is tonight from 7 P-~· to 8:30 p.m. _m Stapleton ments of food panic with the perennial 
Lounge in LeMans Hall: This program, whi_ch_ pa1rs an
Notre Dame Mock Trial Association will have 
alumnae with a student m a career that she IS mterestedproblems of man's short-sighted wistful­an organizational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Sorin in, will take place during Christmas break from Jan_. 3ness would leave a bad taste in da Vinci's Room of LaFortune. All interested Notre Dame under­through 11. Any Saint Mary's juniors or seniors who hvemouth. But perhaps there exists a direct graduates are urged to come to the meeting or contact in or will visit Chicago, Detroit, Minneapolis/St. Paul, St.
link between these two conditions. Maybe 
Mike Moreland at 283-1827 for more information. 
Louis, or South Bend will be eligible. has yet to slip through our fingers by grasping frantically at the part of our pre­
we satiate our desires for the time which 
NATIONAL
sent over which we have ultimate control­
Vice President Dan 
food. 
Quay I e said Tuesday public 
Charles Keating, the man blamed by the
With a consumption rate inversely pro­
schools must dismantle a "Berlin 
government for the nation's biggest .s~vings ~n? loanportional to the time it takes to be earned Wall" of rules that allow them to collapse, was jailed in lieu of $5 m!lhon. b~II m Los
and prepared, food is rarely given the 
operate like a communist, state-run Angeles Tuesday after he was indicted on cnmmal fr~udmandibular patience it deserves. Yet it does monopoly. Educators should take a charges. It was the first criminal case filed agan~stmake us happy for the present, which might lesson from "the failure of socialized Keating, who has become a symbol of the national thr_Ifthave been the point da Vinci wanted to economies in Eastern Europe and the scandal because of his high pay, lavish personal habits,
make when he observed our insatiable Soviet Union," Quayle said. He called investments in risky real estate and junk bonds, andappetites for the future. 
for wider efforts to give parents alleged use of accounting gimmickry t? concealWhether we long for the coming of spring choice in public education and ·· wrongdoing. More than $200 million worth of JUnk bondsor not, it shall arrive in due course. The 
vouchers to allow them to choose between public and 
were sold to 22,000 investors, many of them elderly.
simmering questions will bubble into an­private schools. He had in mind vouchers paid for by state swers soon enough. Perhaps we will not be 
and local governments, not Washington.able to savor every meal as did He in "The Last Supper," but we can try to enjoy these last snacks before we have to bring home 
Bee' Ounkers of Amenca Educaton PrOfecl 
INDIANA ALMANAC
the bacon. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
On September 19th:
The lack of improvement in 
//
are those of the author and not necessarily 
achievement tests by Indiana students is a
those of The Observer. 
disgrace that could scare new businesses away, eln 1796: President George retiring state Rep. Stephen Moberly says. Washington's farewell address was "Business and industry today demand more than published. In it, the first chief execu­
tive of the United States advised,
just a strong back and big muscles. Th~y want a 
"Observe good faith and justice toward 
well-trained and educated work force, Moberly
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 all nations. Cultivate peace and har­
said Monday at the 90th annual conferen~e of the 
mony with all."
(219)-239-7471 
Indiana Association of Cities and Towns m South 
eln 1881: The 20th president of
Bend. "Public education in this state is too
Tuesday's Stall 
the United States, James A. Garfield,
important to be left any longer to the exclusive 
died of wounds inflicted by an assas­
News Production Ad Design 
cartel of teacher unions, superintendent­sin eleven weeks earlier.
Carolyn Amann Ann Buff Cara Eckman 
principal-school board interest groups and the
Paul Pearson Cristina Ortiz Mario Siguenzo 
eln 1934: Bruno Hauptmann Mike Owen Kerry Clair 
Indiana Department of Education," he said. 
was arrested in New York and charged 
VIewpoint Jean-Philippe Thole 
with the kidnap-murder of the 
Accent Julie Shepherd Maria Blohm 
lindbergh infant.
Paige A. Smoron Kathy Welsh 
A star-studded celebration will eln 1959: Soviet leader Nikita
John Fischer Graphics 
When your
commemorate the fifth anniversary of the movie Khrushchev became angered during a
Frank McGehee Systems Michael Muldoon Mark Sloan 
"Hoosiers," which turned New Richmond's visit to Los Angeles after being in­Mike Murphy Circulation
Sports streets into the mythical Hickory, Ind. Writer formed that, for security reasons, he 
party leaves 
Bill O'Rourke 
Chris Cooney Angelo Pizzo and director David Anspaugh plan wouldn't get to visit Disneyland in 
Matt Novak 
Anaheim.
to attend the Hickory Festival Sept. 28-30, which 
home­

will include a charity banquet honoring the film's e Five years ago: The 
Mexico City area was struck by an
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday cast and crew. Sheb Wooley, who played Cletus 
designate a
earthquake measuring eight-point-one
through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The the principal, is planning to show up, as are six 
on the Richter scale, the first of two
Observer IS a member ol the Assoc1ated Press All reprodue11on of the eight young men who played the Hickory
nghts are reserved devastating quakes that claimed at 
driver
Huskers. 
least six-thousand lives. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 


The Observer page 3 
Gilligan: U.S. should think about actions, decisions in Middle East 
By COLLEEN GANNON United States is highly selective President." 
News Writer in the kinds of aggression Gilligan discussed the U.S. In the Middle East, we must which we think merit punish-desire to secure oil at $22 a figure out how our actions and ment and resistance," he said. barrel. "If we have the right to decisions measure up to our While he said that Saddam go to war to secure access to a nation's standards, according to Hussein is a murdering tyrant, commodity which we regard as John Gilligan, director of the he questioned if that was why vitally important to our well­Institute for International Peace our troops are in the Middle being at a price we think Studies. East. He gave credit to the equitable, have the people of 
"That requires real courage, Administration for protecting the region an equivalent right a clear eye, and a clean heart," Saudia Arabia from a possible to resort to violence to secure Gilligan said yesterday in his invasion. the things they need?",Gilligan lecture entitled "Behind the He then compared the asked. Red, White, and Blue: U.S. current situation to the Gilligan said, "We need to Interests and Policies in the previous fighting between Iran recognize in ourselves, in our Middle East". and Iraq, in which the U.S. own conduct over the years, the 
He referred to President supplied arms for Iraqi very qualities which we con­Bush's speech last week as "the aggression. "Consistency in demn in others. We need to conventional appeal to patrio-such matters has not evidently speak with some humility of tism." In this speech, Bush of-been our strong suit," Gilligan some consciousness of our past Cered four major reasons why said. sins and offenses,". our armed forces are deployed The threat to the U.S. oil "People all over the world in the Middle East. supply and cheap gasoline know and revere what we say 
These reasons include pro-posed by these two conflicts is we stand for, but what they tecting a small nation from ag-the similarity that Gilligan ob­cannot always understand is gression by a larger neighbor, served. "Do we have the right why we don't live up to our restoring to power the rightful to wage war for cheap gasoline professed beliefs and ideals," government of Kuwait, protect-or for other economic national said Gilligan. ing the supply of oil, and estab-interest?" he questioned. However, according to lishing order and security in the Although Congress has a re-Gilligan, each day we have a entire Gulf region. sponsibility to discuss these is-chance to begin again. We now 
" As responsible citizens, we sues and debate them at length have a chance to live up to our need to examine somewhat for the benefit of the American ideals in the Middle East, he more closely each of these pro-people, he said this responsibil­said. posals," Gilligan said. ity can be difficult to carry out "We can try painfully, day by 
According to Bush, the United when the President wraps the day, to work with others of all States opposes armed military explanation of his actions in races, creeds, colors, and na­aggression. By recalling U.S. in-patriotic rhetoric. tionalities to work for a better volvement in Grenada, Panama, "When the executive is bent world. A world of truth and Lebanon, and Vietnam, Gilligan on war, or at least the threat of justice and, dare I say it, a questioned the validity of this war", he said, "the vast major­world of love for all," Gilligan opposition. ity of the people usually rally said. 
"It would appear that the around the flag and support the 
Lecturer wants end of sexist language of Church 
By KATE MANUEL in all liturgies because, accord­gies." Cannon said. Christ, and ignores the feminine ing to Cannon, "what is at stake Applying feminine imagery to images of God that are found in 
News Writer 
is not merely a pushy part of God should not devalue God or scripture and devotional the woman's movement, nor is make worshippers less rever­prayers, according to Cannon. 
Abolishing sexist language in it a very trivial thing." ent, according to Cannon. "The biblical potter andliturgies, utilizing feminine im­
"Language is the way we ex­"Many times the difference in judge need not be equated with agery of God, and establishing press belief in God. By no language is not in respect to maleness. We can use feminine
non-Eucharistic ceremonies 
means is it insignificant or our language toward one an­pronouns with them.", she said. 
where women preside would trivial. Words create worlds, other, but in respect to our Feminine imagery is impor­
make liturgical ceremonies 
but also destroy them. To talk language toward God. God tant, according to Cannon, be­more meaningful for both men about people in a way that makes us male and female, but cause unfamiliar images helpand women, according to Sister makes one part, such as gen­he transcends such reality. All reveal new insights. Female im­Kathleen Cannon. 
der, equal the whole person is language about God is agery also helps to say that fe­"Sexist language is exclusive damaging. Even worse is to to­metaphorical. God is not a fa­male behavior can mediate who 
language related to gender. 
tally ignore the existence of a ther. God is not a mother. God is God is and to disclose the
Sexist language is a pattern 
person.", Cannon said. both, and more than that. No metaphorical nature of all re­that allows for only male terms 
"That is what we oftentimes language can adequately say ligious language. 
in respect to humans and God. 
do in our language at worship. who God is.", she said. Non-Eucharistic ceremoniesA celebrant may say that when When the language ignores the According to Cannon, using where women preside are alsohe says 'all men' he means 'all presence of a body of believers solely masculine imagery for important because, saidof us'. Well, I'm sorry, I don't that is worse than a negative God equates God with maleness Cannon, "Our community is anthink of myself in those terms" response. Many people do not and justifies a hierarchy with anomoly in terms of American said Cannon. 
find adequate expressions of men above women, denies the church communities. In noAn effort should be made to their search for God in litur-likeness .of women to God and place are you going to find theincorporate inclusive language number of priests that we have 

The Notre Dame Finance Club presents: 
THE FINANCE CLUB OPPORTUNITIES NIGHT 
Come Meet the Companies! 
Wednesday, 19 September, 6-8:30 pm MONOGRAM ROOM, ,JACC 
here. Some places do not have daily celebrations of the Eucharist because there are enough priests to say the li­turgy. Thirty-five percent of parishes are priestless parishes. Many women here will be leaders of those parishes and communities; they will, however, have never experi­enced another female in that leadership role." 
Cannon, the associate provost and a former instructor at the Chicago Theological Union, discussed these issues and recommendations, made in a paper by two 1990 Program of Liberal Studies graduates, in last's night lecture "A Woman and Liturgy at Notre Dame." The lecture was sponsored by the Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women. 
Correction 
In a headline on a story in Monday's O~server, Holy Cross College was incorrectly referred to as Holy Cross Junior College, the school's former name. 
Calvin and Hobbes, Far Side and Spelunker see page 15. 
Have a nice day! 

! 
I 
f 
l 

Avoiding the press 
SMC to host lectures on spirituality 
By MARY BETH LUKAS 
News Writer 
Throughout the coming weeks, Saint Mary's College Center for Spirituality will be sponsoring a lecture series designed to invite women to explore God and to tap into their own experience with God. 
''I'm very excited to present this series, we have some excellent speakers which I'm sure will be quite enjoyable to many," said Keith Egan, chairman of the Religious Studies Department and director of the Center for Spirituality 
The series, "Women Looking for God," will kick off with the lecture "Search for Scriptures" today at 12:15 p.m. by Sister Diane Bergant of the Catholic Theology Union. Bergant, who has lectured internationally on issues of justice, peace, and women's topics, will also be giving a lecture "The Compassion of God" tonight at 6 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall. 
Other lectures include: 
• 
"Take the Long Way Home," by Patti Sayre, assistant professor of Theology at Saint Mary's, September 26; 

• 
"Into the Heart of Silence," by Sandra Yocum Mize, assistant professor of Religious Studies at Saint Mary's, October 3; 

• 
"Never Ending Road: Our Search for a Living God," by Angela Appleby and Rachel Thomas, current students at Saint Mary's, October 10; 

• 
"Looking for Mr. God," by Theresa Godwin Phelps, Associate Professor of Law at Notre Dame, October 17. 


We can't be 
everywhere, let us know if something newsworthy happens. Call The Observer 
239-5303 
The Observer Wednesday, September 19, 1990 
Soviet students quiz Reagan at Gorbachev's alma mater 
MOSCOW (AP) -Former keeps on going." topics the two discussed in the President Reagan tutored Despite his hearing aid, the Kremlin on Monday, including Moscow University students 79-year-old former president the possibility of a Soviet Tuesday on the finer points of had trouble hearing some of referendum on the capitalism and democracy and the students' questions and had decollectivization of farms. said he'd copy Mikhail to be helped by U.S. A key to the reform, he said,Gorbachev's economic reforms Ambassador Jack Matlock. is a person's right to own land. 
if he were Soviet leader. But he had no trouble lauding "Until you've done so, you can't 
Reagan also said during a Gorbachev, one of the school's realize the patriotism and the question-and-answer session at best-known graduates, and pride that you have when youMoscow State University that said the two men continue to can stand on a piece of land he believes "Germany has build on the relationship forged and say, 'This is mine,"' rejoined the civilized world" in front of a fireplace at their Reagan told the group. and will not repeat Nazi first summit in Geneva in atrocities. November 1985. Reagan said that while he 
Reagan met with about 45 "Who would have thought wholeheartedly supportedstudents for an hour in the that the warmth of that 
German unification, he 
university's mammoth fireplace in Geneva would melt understood the apprehensionsadministration building in the the ice of the Cold War," of many Soviets who lost Lenin Hills looking down on Reagan said later in a luncheon millions of people to the Nazis central Moscow. Later Tuesday, toast at the U.S. Embassy. in World War II. he met with the board of Reagan told the students that He said the preservation of directors of The Associated if he suddenly became president concentration camps as Press. of the Soviet Union and had to memorials sends a message to 
"He's great! He impresses salvage its crumbling economy, young Germans that "this must me. He radiates energy!" Yuri he would follow the same never happen again." Ammosov, a 21-year-old course as Gorbachev "to bring "So I think that Germany has history student, said after about private ownership, to rejoined the civilized world and listening to Reagan. bring about the free economy there will not be a repeat of the 
"He does not seem as old as that has proven so fruitful for Nazi horror," Reagan said. he is," said another student, our own country." Reagan urged more Edwin Lobinsh. "I would think Gorbachev's economic reform exchanges between Soviet and that he was about 60. He just were among the American students. 
We're Conoco, the Hottest Brand Going. And if you're a Business Major, have we got a date for you. On Thursday, September 20, 1990, from 7-9 p.m., we'll be hosting a Conoco General Information session in the Upper Lounge­University Club, and we'd like to meet you. Come find out about the career opportunities at Conoco. And we'll be back on campus to interview on October 31 & November I. So. mark these dates; it could he the beginning of a very hot future. 
Conoco IS cormng September 20, 1990! 
(conoco) 
A Du Pont Subsidiary 
Wednesday, September 19, 1990 The Observer 
esc to sponsor presentation on understanding human sexuality 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Writer 
Understanding our bodies, gender, sex roles and orienta­tion will be addressed during an upcoming presentation and discussion sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and the Year of Women. 
The event will be comprised of a presentation, a question and answer period and optional time for discussion and reflec­tion. 
Patricia Livingston, the asso­ciate director of the Center for Continuing Formation in Ministry at Notre Dame and re­cipient of the 1990 U.S. Catholic Award, will lead the presentation on "Understanding and Claiming our Sexuality." 
"Sexuality is more that geni­tality," said Livingston, who hopes to go beyond the usual topic of humans as sexual be­ings who must come to terms with their bodies. It is her hope that her presentation will not end as soon as the students have left the building, but that students will reflect on the ideas and, ultimately, integrate them into their lives. 
The lecture will address the three aspects of human sexual­ity: primary, which means un­derstanding our complex feel­ings about our bodies; genital, the physical nature of our sex­uality; and affective, the need and ability to express our sex­uality to others. 
Livingston will present exam­ples that fit into life at Notre Dame, and "wants to incorpo­rate the opinions of the stu­dents," according to Father Don McNeil, director of CSC. 
This commitment to commu­nicating with her audience on their level was evident during a meeting last night, during which she asked a group of students a variety of questions in order to get a better per­spective of life at Notre Dame. 
No stranger to the campus, Livingston, a divorced Catholic mother of three, has often lec­tured and provided retreats on sexuality, relationships, and play in the context of faith. 
"We need to develop mascu­line and feminine sides of our­selves," she has said. "Men and women are meant to be in rela­tionship." It is this message that both Livingston and the Year of Women hope to communicate to the students of Notre Dame this year. 
The presentation will take place on September 26 at 7:30 
p.m. at the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. 
.
Q It bringsout the bestin all ofus:· 
United way 
r---------------------------------,rel;ascre-~-t;.).-----------1

I ' 
......-,..~~.-r;::::.~~ ..-Men's Hairstyling 
YOU CHOOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? 
Haircut, Shampoo, Blow Dry & Condition 
Reg. $15.00 
Now $8.50 with coupon 
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 54533 Terrace Lane A~ross from Martin's 

·------------------------------------------------------------~ 
In 1890, Price Waterhouse opened its first U.S. office. Already recognized overseas for innovative accounting and business services, our goal was to introduce these new strategies to the American mar­ket. The response was phenomenal. Before long, we were one of the nation's most respected and fastest­growing firms. Today, we face a new century -not only as a respected worldwide public accounting finn, but also as a premier consulting finn offering the full range of quality technical and business services. 
The Office of Government Services (OGS) in Washington, D.C. is a vital part of our nationwide information systems consulting practice. Our clients include Federal, state, and local civilian government agencies, as well a<; select private sector clients. Our engagements typically involve the development of financial, human resource, and manufacturing man­agement information ~;ystems and information sys­tems auditing. While the majority of our staff members are based in the Washington, D.C. area, our engagements are nationwide; subsequently, all staff must be willing to travel. Wherever and whatev­er your initial assignment may be, be assured you will be designing and implementing systems using such powerful tools and technologies as: 
• 
DB2, Oracle, UNIX or C 

• 
Structured Methodologies 

• 
CASE tools If a strong academic record in a technical major (e.g., MIS, Systems Engineering, etc.), consultant­level corrummication skills, and career plans in a dynamic information !>]'!>terns consulting environ­ment are part of your credentials, your future may 


well be with Price Waterhouse as we begin our next 100 years. 
To fmd out more about the Price Waterhouse of the future, attend our 
ON-CAMPUS PRESENTATION 
Thursday, September 20, 6-8 PM 
Alumni Senior Club 
If you are tmable to meet with us and would like 
information on a Price Waterhouse Career, write to: Price Waterhouse Office of Government Services Ms. Caryn Perrelli Recruiting Manager 1801 K Street, N.W.. Dept CB 
Washington, D.C. 20006 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. U.S. citizenship may be required for some positions. 

Price Waterhouse 

1 
I 
I .j j 
Drugs 
continued from page 1 
and behaviors...we have an 
opportunity to reach them to­
day." 
The state's Commission on Higher Education was given re­sponsibility for implementing the recommendation, and the estimated cost of doing so was $1 million. 
All Indiana colleges and uni­versities receiving federal funds, including Notre Dame, have come under the federal Drug-Free Schools and Com­munities Act and have an Octo­ber 1 deadline to comply with Department of Education guidelines on dealing with cam­pus substance abuse. 
The 101-page report of Gov. Bayh's commission was divided into three parts-prevention, covering school-based initia­tives, community prevention, and public awareness; work­place and treatment; and jus­tice, spanning law enforcement, prosecuti<m, judication and corrections. 

Excel with us! Critical Care Nurse Internship Program 
Mayo Medical Center, 
Rochester, Minnesota 
At Mayo Medical Center, you'll find a commitment to excellence in the nursing profession as well as in patient care. 
We offer you: 
• 
Six month paid internship 

program-beginning in January and July 

• 
Salary starting at $28,800 (annual rate) 

• 
Rotation through five of Mayo's ten dynamic, advanced critical care units 

• 
Individualized orientation and instruction 

• 
Clinical Preceptorship 

• 
BCLS (and option of future ACLS) certification 

• 
Technologically advanced practice environment 


Application Deadlines For january : December 1, 1990 For july : january 1, 1991 
For more information, contact Mayo Medical Center 
Nursing Recruitment P.O. Box 6057, Rochester, MN 55903-6057 Phone 1-800-247-8590 or 507-255-4314 
An Atiirm.ltive ActiOIVfqu.il Opportunity Employer 
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, September 19, 1990 

APPhoto 
Vision of War 
5-year-old Natasha Dadalli made this colored crayon drawing of her vision of a village being bombed if the Gulf crisis turns to war. Many Jordanian children and wrote letters against the outbreak of hostilities in the Gulf crisis at the reQuest of the Jordanian Women's Committee for Peace. 
Kipnapping, assault charges will face Winnie Mandela 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -The government said Tuesday it will charge Winnie Mandela with kidnapping and assault, a move that could endanger its peace talks with her husband's African National Congress. 
Mrs. Mandela, wife of ANC 
leader Nelson Mandela, will be 
charged in the alleged 
abduction and beatings of four 
young men at her home in 
December 1988. One of them, 
14-year-old Stompei Seipei, was 
found dead. 
Mrs. Mandela's bodyguard, 
Jerry Richardson, was 
convicted of murdering Seipei 
and sentenced to death last 
month. At his trial, the 
surviving victims testified that 
Mrs. Mandela, 56, beat them 
with a whip. She has denied 
wrongdoing. 
The announcement came as 
Mandela, the country's best­
known black leader, met with 
other ANC officials to discuss 
the police crackdown on black 
factional fighting in townships 
around Johannesburg. 
Mandela on Monday threatened to suspend the peace talks if the government fails to halt the carnage that has killed nearly 800 blacks since Aug. 12. Most of the fighting has been between Xhosa and other black ANC supporters and the Zulu-based conservative lnkatha movement. 
He said new police measures announced Saturday, including reinforcements, roadblocks weapons searches and mounted machine guns on police vehicles, would be "ineffective" and were a "license to kill" for security forces. 
Mandela has staunchly defended his wife and might be encouraged by supporters to break off talks if the government proceeds with the prosecution. 
President F.W. de Klerk and Mandela met twice last week and both say they want black­white talks on ending apartheid to move forward as quickly as possible. But the township battles, combined with the 
charges against Mrs. Mandela, make setbacks appear more likely than breakthroughs. 
Klaus von Lieres und Wilkau, attorney general for the Johannesburg Supreme Court, had said he would await completion of the Richardson case before deciding whether to charge Mrs. Mandela. 
"After careful consideration of all the relevant facts, including possible implications beyond the normal legal ones, I have decided to prosecute Mrs. Mandela." he said in a statement. 
There was no immediate com­ment from Mrs. Mandela or her husband. 
They have accused the government of using the case as a propaganda campaign against them and the ANC, the largest black opposition group. 
TRAVEL FREE!! $UN $PLASH TOURS OFFERS THE MOSTI need two GA's for Penn State. PLEASE HELP! I need 4 Miami N.D ALUM HAS 2 PURDUE Need ride to and from EXCITING AND
Call John at 289-1015 tix, stud or GA-call Amy at GA TIX. WILL TRADE FOR 2 Columbus, Ohio: 9/21-9/231
Class 
AFFORDABLE $PRING 
3757 or Peggy 3831. STANFORD OR PENN STAT Will help pay!! Call Laura 
BREAK PACKAGES TOTIX. CALL JOHN 201-764-Proto: 284·3433! 
continued from pg 1 0 JAMAICA AND CANCUN!! 
Need 2 PENN ST. GA's 6313. 
EARN FREE TRIP ANDfor dad & little bro EXTRA $$$. CALL 1 -800·426· 
-will sing & dance· Need STANFORD STUD Irish Music Thursday at New YolK Attorney needs TICKET and 2 AIR FORCE 7710.
BEST OFFER, Andy@1108 HELP ME RELAX-SELL ME Club 23, 9:00 ·?.? with ..... Stanford GAs. Will pay big $$$ GAs. Thanks, AMY x3777 5 
mo Sheamaisin Call Paul at 201-334-3804 or 
VARIOUS STANFORD Nancy at 277-2942. 
GA'S!$1$! It means my "little Jimmy' CALL JOAN IE X2800 ASAP!II and sounds like ANN,2 MICH ST TICKETS END THE TEST DRIVE.
HAVE STANDFORD STUD TO TRADE FOR NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TIX!!! 
THE HAY MACHINE THERE ARE OTHERS WHOTKTS 
2 TICKETS TO ANY $$ call MATI #2052 $$ NEED PURDUE AND A. F. 
CARE MORE ABOUT YOU
HOME GAME. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WILL BUY TRADE OR SELL THAN YOU'LL EVER KNOW.
KRISTI3704 $ MIAMI GA FOR SALE CALL CAROLYN X1363 
$ $ $ $ $ I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL FACE VALUE NEEDED -I A.F. student ALLISON 2732. WANTED-TIX ticket. Steve X 1603 Get your attention? PLEASE help me convince my 
MIA-N.D. GAME $ $ $ $ $ I don't have a Miami ticket, but 
father that all the tuition Dear Brunette and 
CALL 800·323-7687 2 Airforce GAs needed; I do need a ride to Chicago on 
he has shelled out over the Angi&-We're not cheap! We 
1 Miami stud for sale Sat. 9/22. Can leave after 12 
past for years has been worth took you there because we
x284-4109 noon/share gas. 
it!! I need thought you'd like the 
o/o0/o0/o0/o0/o0/o0/o0/oo/oo/oo/oo/o0/o0/oo/o
3 STANFORD G.A.'S! food.-Sid and Mai'K
$$ALUM NEEDS 4 0/oo/o0/o0/oo/o Christine 283·4011 Christine X4012 
TICKETS$$ NEED MIAMI GAS/STUDS I NEED 2 PURDUE STUDENT FOR STANFORD, CALL BAD! TICKETS Ill Call Joe 1307 Ill MICHIGAN ST. HERE WE COLLECT (416) 851-0817, CALL 2546 OR 3028 COME ••• I need 2 Stanford GAs ••• 
AFTER 8:00P.M., RENO. PLEASE! Get psyched for Martin's party 
Call Cory, x2718 Dear Brunett&-I saw you
platters, Coors party balls, and 
\ PERSONALS with that geek last Saturday at
some !·beef grilled on own veryI NEED TENNESSEE the Grape Road Hacienda. 
own hibachi. NEED 1WO AIR FORCE Why don't you meet me there
TICKETS Only 2 more days. -KTI HAVE $$$ AND STANFORD
STUD. TICKETS this Friday at 7:00. I'll be in the 
BUY, SELL OR TRADE AIR hiagSTUD TICKET. CALL
CALLJIM X1185 first booth in the lounge. Wear
FORCE GA TIX FOR ROBERT that green sweater!-The
STANFORD GAME. WATCH OUT! 
4057 Phantom
CALL LAUREN 273-1380 $$$$$$$$$$ VICKIE CHUDZVNSKI 
I NEED STANFORD GA'S I NEED 1 AIR FORCE GA IS
CALL ERIK AT X2088. CALL BETH 288-0597 21 TODAY!!
I NEED 2 STUDENT AND 1 GA FOR AIR FORCE 
NEED PURDUE TIX! HEY YO, WE'RE TALKING TO HAPPY BIRTHDAY
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ LIMITED ROOMS AVAILABLE
CALL 273 1380 FOR KAREN YOU!!! WE KNOW YOU WANT SWEETIE
$ CALL MIKE X3039 FOR PURDUE VS NO GAMETO GO HOME A DAY EARLY NEED STANFORD and MIAMI 
AT JAMISON INN. CALL 277· TICKETS -STUD'S and 
AND SEE YOUR HTH (OR NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & 
9682 FOR RESERVATIONS. GA'S NEED STAN FRO & P ST. FALL BREAK. SO SELL US 
MOMMY AND DADDY) AT STANFORD CALL 273-1364 
Call Mary at 3816. WILL TRADE SIX MIAMI GA'S STUD TIX CALL PAUL X1945 YOUR FREAKIN' MIAMI 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ FOR SIX BETIER MIAMI GA'S HOW COULD YOU MISS THE
TICKETS!!! WE'LL PAY BIG
$ PLUS$$$ BIGGEST AND BEST TRIP OF
BUCKS!II CALL MIKE OR
DESPERATELY SEEKING 2 ALSO NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S YOUR N.D. CAREER? NO vs
CHRIS AT X 1779. 
Stan-FOR$$$ NEED PURDUE ST. TIX #2287 USC· CALL 239·7308 
ford GAs. Parents will kill me if CALL GREG 288·9075 The COFFEEHOUSE this I don't get tixl Call and leave 
···suCK'S Friday!
ATIENTION THRILL message at 1572. 
UNDERGROUND••• 
SEEKERS: VISIT UNIVERSAL
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 3 AIR FORCE G.A.'S Come hear the magnificent 
MIAMI, MIAMI, MIAMI STUDIOS, KNOTI'S BERRY$ OR 2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUD. 
acoustic sounds of
A salute to the great 
FARM, & SIX FLAG'S MAGIC 
WILL PAY $$$$$$. CALL NEED 1 STUD TIX MOUNTAIN! CALL 239-7308.
SHINING CITY OF THE 
JOHN X1177. 
David O'Connell and SELL ME 2 GA's TO THE NO 
SOUTH: 
Dave Schindler CHEERS TO YOU, ATLANTA! 
X2481 PAUL
V. PURDUE GAME. CALL Rachel Cruz and Judy
NEED TICKETS(GA'S) FOR BE ANIMALISTIC: VISIT SEA 
GREG AT x1594 ##################### 
The road was long and 
AIR WORLD & SAN DIEGO ZOOI 
NEED MANY PENN ST. STUD 
FORCE. CALL JULIA X3505 winding, but now the dream is CALL 239· 7308. 
TIX Hutchinson
yours:
Need Student Tix for Stanford PLEASE CALL BILL AT 3349 and Heather Finley 
Great ATLANTA, host of the
big$$$$$ ##################### Friday, at 9:00 in the Basement 
1996 SUMMER OLYMPICS! of Grace. Be There! 
Mason X2787 A Certain BACKGAMMON PARTNER 
$$$MILLIONAIRE$$$ Needs 2 NEEDED 233·3059 JERRY Wanted 2 GA's for Air Force AF GA's and 4-B STAN or 
BUCK'S is joining in the 
NEED 1 PURDUE STUD. 
big bucks paid PURDUE GA's CALL Pat celebration. Call for NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S JOHN X3636 
call Mason at 2787 x1900 reservations: 288·1351. X4514 COFFEEHOUSE•• 

--------------------------------------------------------.--------------------------------------------------------------~-­
Wednesday, September 19, 1990 
The Observer 
Conklin: Public Relations tries to alert ND/SMC campuses to rape 
By PETER LOFTUS 
lease more information aboutCAMPUS
Assistant News Editor the rape, such as their name, then they can go to media pub­lications and do so, Conklin 
When a rape or attempted 
RAPE 
said. 
rape occurs on campus, Notre Public Relations only has ac­
Dame's Public Relations and cess to information reported to 
Information Department strives 
the case may come forward, ND Security or the local police.
to alert the community as soon according to Conklin. Conklin stressed that any in­as possible. 
As a matter of policy, Public formation reported to the Office 
When members of the ND and 
Relations does not release the of Student Affairs about a rapeSaint Mary's community read names of victims of rapes, Con­or other incident is strictly
about a rape case they hope­klin said. Only information confidential.
fully will be more cautious, said which serves the two purposes He said he did not think that 
Dick Conklin, director of Public cited above is released to the his department had any right to Relations and Information. In media. It is also important to have access to Student Affairsaddition, when the community protect the victim's anonymity, information.
is aware of the crime, people 
he added. "It's a confidential matter,"who may have information on 
If the victim would like to re-Conklin said. 
Moreau Hall opens new exhibits by Dan Meyers, Jeramy Turner 
By NICOLE DUGAN ical recovery of memories and paintings are meant to amuse, News Writer events through the use of re­arouse, and frighten their audi­production. ence, and are primarily guaged to provide insight into the reali­
Two new exhibits of photog­
To do this, the Baltimore­ties of present-day society. 
raphy and paintings are show­
based Meyers uses multiple
ing at Moreau Hall, Saint 
photographic frames to take The works by Meyers are lo­Mary's College. 
pictures of photographs, which cated in the Little Theatre and allows him to raise questions the Hammes Gallery of Moreau The gallery exhibits, featuring about memory and imagination. Hall. Turner's paintings can be 
photographs by Dan Meyers 
Turner, a Chicago-based seen in the Moreau Gallery in
and paintings by Jeramy 
artist, said she draws her in­the lower level of Moreau. 
Turner, opened last Friday and 
spirations from early 1960s'
will continue through October Mad magazines and paint cari­The works on display can be 12. 
catured figures of corpulant viewed from 10a.m.-12p.m., society oblivious to the sur­1p.m.-4p.m., Tuesday throughMeyers said his objective is to rounding horrors created. Friday; 10a.m.-12p.m. on Sat­link the mental reclamation of 
urday; and 1p.m.-3p.m. on
personal history to the mechan-
According to Turner, her Sunday. 
········· Kfrom TaKe a brea dwiches. 

:Dup~izl]_z~a~an~d~s~an~~·7
... '.f~··j'' 
• 
Wide selection of Mexican and American food and beverages. 

• 
10°/o discount on food purchases with ND/SMC and Holy Cross student, faculty and staff I D.* 

• 
Conveniently located in Indian Ridge Plaza near Phar Mor and TJ Maxx. 


Hours: Mon.-Thur. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.& Sat 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. noon-10 p.m. 
American Express, VISA, Master Card accepted. 
: *Offer good thru September . . only at the Grape Rd. location .. 
• • • · • · · • · · ·ell<icienda MexiCan RestaurantS . 900 
-----------------w. 
page 7 
WICI is now nation's 2nd biggest pro body 
By KATIE MOORE News Writer DeNezza said that financial stability is the third area of 
With an increased member­emphasis for WICI. DeNezza ship of 19% in the past year, the said the decision to implement president of Women in Com­a dues increase was "in order munications, Inc. (WICI}, Janice to continue the present services DeNezza, reported during yes­and implement new services." terday's luncheon at Saint Mary's that WICI is now the DeNezza co-founded the Buf­second largest professional or­falo WICI Professional Chapter ganization in the nation. in 1979 and has since moved 
through local, regional and na­
Speaking to members of both tional ranks to her current po­the Saint Mary's and Michiana sition. She recently became the Professional WICI Chapters director of marketing for Lad­yesterday, DeNezza described broke/DRC Thoroughbred Race the three areas which she will Track in Livonia, Michigan. be focusing on in the upcoming year. The "notorious reputation" 
WICI has for its networking 
DeNezza said that in addition system and its "unique diver­to continuing the increase of sity" are two reasons DeNezza WICI membership, her goal is said she believes WICI is one of to raise the retention rate from the "strongest organizations in 84% to near 98%. 1989 was the the country." first year membership exceeded 12,000, according to DeNezza. "I wouldn't have taken a 
leadership role if I hadn't so 
WICI visibility is another area strongly believed in the organi­of focus for DeNezza. The re­zation," DeNezza said location of the national head­quarters from Austin, Texas to Anyone who is interested in Washington, D.C. in 1988 was joining WICI can call Patricia "extremely beneficial" in con-Branecki, president of the Saint tributing to this goal. according Mary's WICI Chapter, at 284­to DeNezza. 5104. 
The Observer is always looking for new faces. Write for News, Accent, Sports or Viewpoint. Join the Ad department or work in the Production aspect ot the paper. There are many ways that you can contribute to your paper. 
Call The Observer today at 239-5303. You'll be glad you did. 

Lots of love! Mom, Dad, 
,~ Theresa, & Christina 
ND Mock Trial Association 
Open to all Notre Dame Undergraduates 
Organizational Meeting: Wednesday, September 19th 7:00pm, Sorin Room in LaFortune 
If you can't make the meeting, contact: Mike Moreland x1827 Amy Cashore x2562 
Viewpoint 

I WILL TRA\)£.. You KuW'A1J, · FOR A~ E~t> TO 1HE ECONOMIC l)LOt't<,t\'OE AND 1WO TICKETS TO \HE NOTI\E DAM£., M1f:I.MI ~ ~AME. 
Ihe~Obset:Ver 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks 
Managing Editor John O'Brien 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey S&lnt Mary's Editor ....•... Corinne Pavlis 
Business Manager Kathleen O'Connor 
Advertising Manager ...•.•... Beth Bolger Ad Design Manager ••••.....••. Amy Eckert Production Manager ••••••..•.••.Lisa Eaton Systems Mgr ...•Bernard Brenninkmeyer OTS Director •••...••••••.•.•.••.•Dan Shinnick Controller.••..••.••••••••.......Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
I I 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the 
I 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as i
! 
accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
of your options. Don't you want to get married and have chil­dren someday?" 
Co-ed: "Yes, but my more immediate concern is learning about graduate school and other opportunities. That is why I came to see you." 
Does this sound like the ex­perience of a female college student in the 1950s? Unfortunately, this scenario is quite similar to an actual con­versation one of the authors had with a Notre Dame profes­sor last spring. 
It is nearly impossible to imagine a professor posing the same questions to an equally competent male student. It seems highly doubtful that a professor would seek to dis­suade a male student from post-B.A. work. The sJ,lbject of marriage and family would probably not be mentioned by an advisor as considerations for a male student. Indeed, it would seem that an academic advisor's primary objective when approached by a promis­ing student of either sex would be to present all of the relevant opportunities in the student's field of interest and let the stu­dent proceed from there. 
In our scenario, the ND woman did not ask for advice about how to integrate mar­riage, family and career. Such considerations are important for both sexes as they make choices in life. However, these considerations were presented to the student solely because of her sex. Her in~uiry was specif­ically geared toward gaining information about post-gradu­ate academic and career oppor­tunities, not discussing her fu­ture personal life choices. 
We wonder whether Professor Patriarchy's question 
LETTERS 
.-o.S d .Sho£,(/d 6e ... 

concerning the woman's fa­ther's opinion indicates that he felt she needed a male authority figure to aid in her decision-making. Again, it seems unlikely he would ask this of a male student. By the time a student reaches the end of college, she or he can and should make such decisions independently. 
In recounting this story, it has not been our intention to indict faculty. Our primary goal is to open the eyes and ears of all on this campus to the gender stereotypes which we all harbor. Unless we confront our real experiences, encourage di­alogue about similar situations and move to change our behav­ior in the appropriate direction, the Year of Women will pay mere lip-service to gender is­sues. 
Ellen Feeney Breen Phillips Tara Verdonk Pasquerilla East Sept. 16, 1990 
Senior spirit supports the Irish through the fourth quarter 
Dear Editor: 
As Notre Dame seniors, we were particularly offended by the Inside Column in the Sept. 17 issue of The Observer. 
Miss Pavlis accurately described the attitude of the seniors at the start of the game concerning seats; however, we feel that we have been falsely blamed for a bad situation. There is no legitimate explanation for being forced to sit 15 yards away from our seats (the ones we also waited three years to get), other than discourteous classmates and ushers more concerned with looking at the field than looking at ticket stubs. 
We would also like to address a few more of Miss Pavlis' con­cerns. Most true Irish fans, those who remain through the fourth quarter, will attest to the senselessness of "the wave." In addition, organizing important cheers such as "WE ARE ND," is extremely difficult from row 52 without the aid of the cheerleaders. We know our friends were celebrating and supporting our Irish from start to finish. 
We can think of no other place in which to celebrate great Irish victories than with our friends and fellow students in "the house that Rock built." However, we cannot support "fans" leaving the stadium early, especially when the Irish are down, for no better reason than to consume alcoholic bev­erages. All those seniors who remained, in the rain, to sup­port our team and sing the Alma Mater were the true Irish fans. 
Daniel McKenna Kevin O'Connell Zahm Hall 
Industry Day benefits engineers 
Dear Editor: 
The Joint Engineering Council and the Society of Women Engineers are sponsoring Industry Day on Wednesday, Sept. 19. 
Industry Day provides an opportunity for students to interact with company repre­sentatives in an informal envi­ronment. Over 35 engineering companies are attending the fair this year, a record number for the event. 
Industry Day consists of a career fair, hors d'oeuvre hour and banquet. The career fair is held from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on the first and second floors of Fitzpatrick Hall (students should bring resumes); the hors d'oeuvre hour is from 5:30p.m. to 6:30 p.m. at the South Bend Marriott; it is sponsored by General Electric. The banquet, also at the South Bend Marriott, will begin at 6:30 p.m.. Students who registered for the banquet will receive their ticket in the campus mail. Off-campus students should pick up their ticket in the Engineering Student Center (217 Cushing Hall) before Wednesday. 
I strongly encourage all engi­neering students to participate in Industry Day. The companies are seeking engineers for sum­mer internships and full-time employment. It is an excellent opportunity for future employ­ment. 
Kathryn Pirrotta President. Joint Engineering Council 
----~<)_ep_~ .zs. 1990 
ND harbors dangerous gender-related biases 
Dear Editor: 
In recent days, we have been bombarded with articles in The Observer detailing the significance of the Year of Women. The discourse thus far has been filled with generalities. While this has been a good introduction, more serious discussion of the role and status of women at Notre Dame must reflect the realities of their condition on campus and in the classroom. One such reality includes the experience of young women with academic advisors. Picture the following discussion between a Notre Dame co-ed as she visits the office of one of her favorite professors, Professor Patriarchy, with the intention of 
r 
discussing post-graduate opportunities in his field of expertise:
f 
ND Co-ed: "I am really inter­
f 
( ested in going into the field of political science. I am currently
r 
r exploring graduate schools, in­
I ternships and foreign study. Do 
I you know of any outstanding programs in these areas that I might find interesting?" Professor Patriarchy: "Well, are you sure this is what you really want to pursue? The real world of political science is very demanding and competitive. What does your father think of your aspirations? Have you fully considered the challenges posed by study abroad and graduate school?" Co-ed: "Yes, I know it is a challenging field, but my quali­fications and drive match those of others who have succeeded in this area. I'm not sure why you asked about my father." Professor Patriarchy: "I'm sure your father is concerned about your future ideas. And I wonder if you've considered all 
DOONESBURY 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
5!X6AUONS 
CFWAT&R.A OAY~ THAT 
CAN'T8l3 
R/61-fT... 
/ 
WITHOUT [.{}J5TANT /A/ATeR.INRJ­5/rYV, YOU~ f?EAI) Mt:.trr-YOU [)!3HY/JRA7l3 INA BLINI<! WATeR 
15 eVeRYTHING HtR,01rS 71-113 
{)If~ 88TWtifN UFe 
I 
AN/JOfA7H-' GeTIT, 5(1£JifR? ~ 
\ 
OFOJURS& 
OAMN
I G8T IT­
IA//3eK&ND
I/111 A 
WARRIORS... 
RORJST. 
\--~~---­
'Honest criticism is hard to take, particularly from a friend, an acquaintance, or a stranger.' 
Franklin P. Jones 
Accent 
Summertime south of the equator 
ND senior spends summer in Kingdom of Tonga for Peace Corps 
ELIZABETH VIDA for the internship in May of her Tongan belief that bigger is accent writer sophomore year. In June she better. Their king weighs close 
Hanging out at the beach, or was notified of her acceptance to 500 pounds. "They all the shore, depending on where into the program, along with thought I looked sickly and you're from, is seen by many her destination. tried to get me to eat more", Domers as the ideal summer, Mackett commented, "When I Mackett remarked. Table eti­especially those Domers stuck found out that I was accepted quette is not highly regarded; in an office all day. Relaxing, and would be sent to Tonga, my Tongans eat everything with soaking up some rays, sipping first reaction was, 'Great, I'll their hands. iced tea or other preferred bev­take it-where is it?' It was to­The society of the Kingdom of erage, playing volleyball, volun­tal luck of the draw where I Tonga, which is actually 150 teering for the Peace would end up." A whole year different islands, of which only Corps ... wait, you say? What is after she was notified of her 80 are inhabited, is highly reli­
wrong with this picture, you acceptance (June 1 to be exact), gious. Mackett said of their ask? Mackett departed for Tonga culture,"There is no crime be­
Well, while some of us were and didn't return until August cause their whole culture is basking in the sun doing noth­16. Even then she didn't return dedicated to God. One of the ing but melting our brains, Usa to her hometown of Columbus, biggest shocks of coming back Mackett, a senior living in Knott Ohio, but came straight back to home was hearing about mur­Hall, worked in the central ND to fulfill her RA responsibil­ders and violence again after a office of the Peace Corps in the ities in Knott Hall. whole summer with no mention 
Kingdom of Tonga. Tonga is of it." located right on the dateline in "When you cross the hemi­The major problem facing In the capital, she was in "All in all, it was a fantastic the South Pacific, and is the last sphere, everything is reversed, the Tongan police is how to charge of setting up the techni­experience. You felt like you of the Polynesian Islands to still from the direction the water control the traffic, which is a cal library for the Peace Corps were giving them something, have a true monarchy. swirls down the drain to the mix of bikes, cars, and horses. office, organizing current in­but in the end you received 
Summer internships with the weather, to the culture itself," Family is also a highly regarded formation on forestry, agricul­much more back. I learned Peace Corps are highly coveted; Mackett commented. While it aspect of their society-half of ture, and first aid. "I was the what things are cultural and only twenty college students na­was summer in the northern Tonga is related. only American in the office. what things are tionwide go each year, and only hemisphere, Tonga and its sur­Actually, being in the office was universal-things like five per season. Eighty universi­rounding island countries were "The pace of life in Tonga is like being back in the U.S., with friendship and love of God." ties and colleges participate in enduring a rough winter aver­very slow, relaxed and quiet. Macintosh computers, fax and a Peace Corps compact, and aging between 60 and 70 de­When I would wake up on Xerox machines, all in the mid­The ancient Tongans origi­each school gets to nominate grees. Sunday morning, there dle of pig fields. nally chose their homeland be­one student. "It never got above 90 all wouldn't be a soul around." "The Peace Corps had sent cause it is the first place that 
winter," said Mackett. It's a Mackett even lived in the over all these computers and sees the light of the new day. 
Mackett, a govern­good thing that it didn't get too capital of the Kingdom of they were just sitting there; no­and they planned this so they ment/international relations warm in Tonga because Tonga, a bustling city of 6,000 body knew how to use them. could be the first people to pray major with concentrations in Mackett had to wear at least a people. "Some members of the They had just shuffied them to God. Every time Usa the Hesburgh Program and knee length skirt and keep her Peace Corps were in towns of into a corner instead of trying Mackett wakes up here at Notre Peace Studies, was selected by shoulders covered all summer. 30-40 people, totally unaffected to learn how to use them. I had Dame and sees the sunrise, she Father Malloy to represent Another example of how ev­by civilization," Mackett com­to help them learn how to use will remember the people who Notre Dame after she applied erything is reversed is the mented. all these computers. saw it first. 
Of pumped up squirrels and embalming yourself 
Hello, again. Illustrated controversy. The parties; everyone was cramped, and opened it to this definition: This is your friendly freshman only steroid users on this hot and ticked off at the Sleep. (slep): 1. Something
Chuck Young 
investigative reporter, Chuck campus are the squirrels and administration because they Notre Dame students do when Young, bringing you another Propisition 48 prevents them A Fresh Perspective didn't provide enough space. not going to class or studying. column of timely and useful from playing anyway. A professor came in and 2. Outside of Notre Dame, information. Of course, I would be crazy handed out syllabi for Physics something done nightly. 
Up front, a bunch of alumni to offend the football team. Tim advertise for Miami tickets." 141 and left. When we all tried Too true, I thought. invaded the campus this week­Ruddy alone could both outwit "Good point. You must be a to sneak out of the room at In a final, desperate move in end. You may not have noticed me and kill me. But even a good reporter. You know all the once, we realized that we were my search for material, I went 
this, because very few were ac­freshman can tell Notre Dame facts." still in the right class. to The Observer and checked tually wearing plaid pants. is clean. Enough said. "Thanks." The real professor came in my mail. Empty. No responses 
They played golf and tennis, Working the freshman beat "You really need a hat that later and, I must admit, I was to my first column. ate great food, made new proved to be a real challenge. I says 'Press', though." afraid. I moved to the back, A friend of mine said that was friends and spent a lot of money know the dorms, hometowns "Really?" braced myself against the wall an accomplishment. "It's at the bookstore. Not unlike and possible majors of about "Yeah. And a tape recorder. and waited for the traditional impressive that you were able freshman orientation. Most of 500 people (most of them are Desperately. Anyway, I gotta summer vacation essay to write something that 8000 them were in a really good Pre-meds from New Jersey). go..." assignment.. people paid absolutely no atten­mood because they had the but that's about it. I resolved to I left LaFortune, still looking I quickly discovered a crucial tion to." opportunity to spend a month's have a real conversation before for a good story, and ran into difference between my high "That makes Du Lac a mas­salary on $24 Michigan tickets. my next column went to print. another freshman. school and Notre Dame. They terpiece," I told him. "Any sug­Go figure. I started out talking to a "Have any story ideas?" I actually teach you things here. gestions on how I can get peo­
As far as football goes, let's freshman woman in LaFortune: asked. The professor assigned us ple to send in material?" just say Lou Holtz should be "Have any story ideas?" I "Yeah, man. My band. It's some great books, like The "Yeah. Bribery." canonized. It shouldn't be too asked. called 'Death by Plaid.' We need Odyssey. It's about Odysseus, a So send me mail. If we pub­hard after last weekend-he's "No." a drummer." great mind, a great character lish your letter, you'll receive a already handled one of the req­Great. "What kind of music do you and a great athlete with one fa­high-quality Fresh Perspective uisite three miracles. "Why do you write a column, play?" tal flaw: no sense of direction. T-shirt. And if you have any T­
I'd like to take this anyway?" "Cool stuff. We've got a new Thus, a 400 page epic. shirt design ideas, send them opportunity to become the first "It's good Catholic fun." song called 'Never Embalm We didn't have our books, in. If we use your design, you'll member of the press to come "Like the graffiti dance?" Yourself.' " though. so we went on a tour of receive a high-quallity Fresh out on Lou's side of the Sports "Sure. And it's a great way to I continued my search for the library. Perspective T-shirt. 


Volleyball tournament for a cause 
minutes. There is a $10 entry fee for each team of six (at 
MICHAEL SNYDER 
Accent Writer 
least two girls must be on theLyons Hall will be holding court.) Other plans for the their annual volleyball tournament include aDJ.
tournament this Sunday Anyone interested in partic­
September 23 at Stepan . Field to raise money for the 
ipating should call Jennifer Shelter For Battered Women. 
McRedmond at 283-2903 or There are 64 teams 
Vicki Schneider at 283-2999 competing for the first place 
before Wednesday night. Co-president of Lyons Hall prize of a free dinner at 
Macri's. Second place is a $10 
Jennifer McRedmond is dollar gift certificate at 
looking forward to the Edwardo's. 
weekend's festivities, but notes that most importantly, 
The single elimination tour­nament gets an early start at 
the tournament will be raising 
money for The Shelter For being played every 45 
9:00 am with new games Battered Women. 
material in the computer lab Always the investigative re­I eagerly await more stuff to and made the mistake of com­porter, I paged through a book write about. 
plimenting a senior on his shirt. of great quotes for inspiration Meanwhile, I'll be working to "All right," he said. "What is when we stopped in the refer­get my life back in balance. it? You want me to buy you ence section. It said "We only Like many freshmen right now, 
beer, don't you?" fear that which we do not un­I'm a little stressed out and I couldn't resist. "No, man. derstand". Yeah, I thought. Like completely broke. I'm trying to But do you have a car?" calculus, or the dining hall establish a line of credit at the I was desperate and strained Grotto.
food. for time. So in a strategic at­The dining hall itself isn't all It shouldn't take too many tempt to combine my academic that complex. After all, it's just candles, though. I'm flexible. and journalistic lives, here's an Old Country Buffet with flies. All I need is either more some observations from my But the food can be mind­sleep, less homework, more first day of English. Fellow boggling. time or a car. freshmen, many seniors report Wait until Lent and the that my experience is a good advent of Meatless Hey, freshmen! Have any indicator of what is to come. Cheeseburgers if you don't be­questions or suggestions? Hey, 
My humanities seminar was lieve me. My chem lab teaching upperclassmen! Have any 
scheduled in a space slightly assistant wants to do his dis­words ofwisdom? Please send smaller than my dorm room. sertation on them. your advice, comments. etc. to After the twenty of us arrived, it The reference section was Chuck, care ofThe Observer, 
was a lot like most on-campus fun, so I pulled out a dictionary third floor ofLaFortune. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------..------~--------~-----­
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, September 19, 1990 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30· p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Maty's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
PRAYER MEETING 
Thursdays @ 7:30 Siegfried Chapel ?? call Eileen x4815 
SPEE-DEE WORD PROCESSING 237-1949 
NOTRE DAME COUNCIL ON INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS 
DEVELOPMENT 
ORIENTATION MEETING 
SEPT. 19-20 7:00-8:00 PM HAYES-HEALY ROOM 220 SEE YOU THERE! 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST BLUE NOTRE DAME FIESTA BOWL HANDBAG AT MISHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT-CONTAINED CHAMPIONSHIP RING,MONEY, AND IMPORTANT PAPERS. PLEASE CALL TONY AT X1970. 
Lost: Woman's traditional white gold ND class ring with blue stone. $100 Reward. Please call Katie Basinski at X4559. 
LOST: GOLD ROPE CHAIN SAT. NIGHT BETWEEN ZAHM HALL AND D2. GREAT PERSONAL VALUE. PLEASE 
RETURN IF FOUND. 
271-9312 
LOST!!! LOST!!! LOST!!! RAY-BAN ARISTA OUTDOORSMAN GOLD FRAMED SUNGLASSES AT THE MICH. GAME. VERY SPECIAL TO ME-GIFT 
FROM SOMEONE!!III WIL OFFER REWARD! CALL 
DIANA 284-5484. 
FOUND: MALE WATCH AT MICHIGAN TAILGAITER 9/16 CALL JOSE 283-1985 
LOST: TWO MIAMI GA's FOUND:TWO AIR FORCE GA's LET'S MAKE A DEAL! II 
FOUND IN CUSHING: 2 KEYS FOR ROOM 201. CALL X2215. 
FOUND ON WHITE FIELD: KEYCHAIN WITH 2 ROOM KEYS. CALL LORI AT 284-5017 TO IDENTIFY!!! 
WANTED 
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL615-473-7440 EXT. B-340. 
~, 
FAST FUNDRAISING 
PROGRAM 
$1000~K. 
Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization. 
Plus a chance at 
$5000 more! 
This program works! No investment needed. 
can t -800.fJ2.0SZ8 Ext. 50 
·.·.·-·-·.·-·.·-·.·.·.·-·-·.·.·-·-·-· -· -· 
RIDE NEEDED: to U. of Dayton or Indiana U. any wknd this semester. Will pay $$$. Call John x1177. 
PURDUE! I NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S. IF YOU CAN HELP PLEASE CALL#3074. 
Need BABYSITIER for home FB games. Call Mike: x5689 
(W) or 271-0579 (H). 
BABYSITIER NEEDED!! During home FB games Call Steve at X1037. 
country 1 02 looking for board operator sundays 9a-2p. exper ienced only need apply. call chris roberts 271-9482 
GUITARISTS WANTED If you love to play the guitar and take requests, we need you to play at a SMC bonfire on Oct. 1. For more info, call Ellen at 284-4426. 
Wanted a superior english student to help me with my papers and reports. 277-5934 $$ 
HELP! I need PURDUE stud tix. Call Ann x3445. 
UNIQUE POSITION­GRAPHIC ARTIST AND RECEPTIONIST. MUST HAVE MAC COMPUTER KNOWLEDGE. QUARK, MICROSOFT, PLUS OTHER. PART TIME, HOURS FLEXIBLE. CALL 273-2090. 9­
5. CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME. 
Christmas Help National firm has many openings available. $8.1 0 
starting. Gain great business experience . Weekends and evenings available.call 271­8699 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR TURTLE CREEKAPTS NON-SMOKER 273-9406 OR 283-2805 
CONDO FOR RENT: Stanford Gm 'Sleeps 6, Ktch, 2 Btrm, etc." 
1 BlockO.C. CALL DENNIS x2097 
1 EFFICIENCY APT. & 1 ONE-BDRM. APT. DOWNTOWN SO. BEND. CALL RALPH 231-2391 BEFORE 8 AM OR 616-695­3786. 
FOR SALE 
COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 19" COLOR TV, TWO SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­5959. 
BIKE & COUCH.272-6306 
RENAULT ENCORE 1984 GOOD CONDITION,5 SPEED STEREO,AC. $ 1800.277­9494 AFTER6PM. 
I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME GAME AND PRICE 273-1364 
-···· ·-.--:._.:-;-.--:",.:--;.-..,._'=""'-.,:-::-••
• .:-;:_ •• ~~-:-••• 
TICKETS 
Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games. Call tom x1597. 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
PLEASE HELP ME I !Ill Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s 
Please sell me your tickets!!!! 
Call Cathy at 273-9624. 
You can save a marriage, sell me your two Miami GA's! Dave X1566. 
I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER $$$$$ I need 2 GA's for EVERY home game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ 
NEED 1 MICH. Tix AARON x2384 x2352 
Need 1 student Penn State ticket for a future Domer. Please call Pat at 273-9367. 
BIG DOLLARS! NEED STUDENT TIX ALL HOME GAMES CALL 1597 
Need Miami GA's $$$$$$$ no object 
Call Mark 232-4589 
I need 4 Stanford and 4 Air Force tix. Call Pat x 233­7328. 
Need 2 Air Force GA's call Brian C. at x3546 or x3540 
HELP!!! I DESPERATELY NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. STUDS OR GA'S.$$$ CALL NICOLE 234-8882 
WANT 2 PURDUE GA'S DON'T BE A-CALL MIKE AT 2344 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S WILL EVEN PAY$. CALL FRANKSTAR AT 289-4860 
NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S CALL KARIN x1992 
PLEASE. I really, really need PURDUE GA'S. I got lots of MONEY. Call Sean x1723 
NEED GA'S & STUD. TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES -ESP. PURDUE CALL BETH 233-9226 
I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GAs and stud tix for any game. Todd x1747 
Need 2 GAs for Penr. State Call 284-4060 
DESPERATELY need PURDUE GAs!!! Paul x1626 
1Need 2 Miami Tickets Students or GAs Will Pay Top Dollar Call Eric x2095 
r-----------....., SECTION 
NEED 1 MIAMI TICKET !!I CALL JOE X2053 
NEW YORK ATIORNEY NEEDS MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR GA. WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL SAM AT (20t )334-3804. 
NEED 6 GA'S. CALL MIKE ASAP AT CASTLE POINT. 273-9417 
I NEED ONE MIAMI STUDENT TICKET!!!! PLEASE CALL KATE AT X4045. 
Need GAs for PENN STATE and AIR FORCE. 
Call Jackie 4121 
Love me, abuse me, and sell me your Penn State GA's. I need 4 of them. Call x1696 and leave a message for Flo. 
Need two GA's and one student for Penn St. Ask for Tim x4110 
11!!!!!!######!!!1!!!!!######## SOLVE MY PROBLEMS FOR ME! I NEED 6 STANFORD AND 6 PENN STATE GA's CALL TIM #2704 AND LEAVE A MESSAGE 
HELP! I NEED 3 PURDUE GA'SI CALL ERIN AT 283-3425 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA FOR 2 MIAMI ALSO NEED GAS ALL HOME GAMES TERRI X4837 
TEXAS ALUMNI NEEDS 2-3 
G.A. TICKETS TOGETHER IF POSSIBLE FOR MIAMI AND PENN STATE. CALL BROTHER 287-0461 AFTER 6P.M. 
Need: PSU GA's Have: Purdue, AF, Pitt GA's Trade? Call Dan X3466 
I HAVE: 2 STANFORD GA's 2 PURDUE GA's 4 AIR FORCE GA's & 2 NAVY (meadowlands) GA's TO TRADE FOR : 6 MIAMI GA's & 2 STUD CALL SALLY x4999 
Need 1 Stanford Bob x2384 
I have GA's to all home games 
+ Navy and Mich. State. Looking to trade tickets and/or cash for Miami GA's. Interested? Call Hugh at 233-6740. 
ROAD TRIPI!!II! 4 Mich. State GA's for sale or trade. Call Hugh at 233-6740. 
NEEDED-4 GA TIX FOR PENN GAME-CALL X3635­MORE$$$$ IF THEY ARE IN SAME 
GET TOP$ 
FOR YOUR 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS 1-800-733-8499 ASK FOR PAUL 
ALL SALES 
•• •• ·-• • 
·CONFIDENTIAL• • · · 
I Need 2 GA's for Purdue and Penn State-ANY PRICE call Julie 4906 
I NEED 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR PURDUE AND STANFORD PRICE FLEXIBLE CALL SARAH 4870 
............ ",' .. 
MIAMI TIX WANTED $ STUDENT OR GA $ (201) 334-3804 
I NEED MIAMI TIX PLEASE CALL ALLISON 289-8915 
NEED 3 G.A.'S TOGETHER FOR PURDUE OR AIR FORCE. CALL MATI AT 288-7568 
Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or GA Please call Man X3024 
For Sale: Tickets for all home games call Joe X1688 Monday -Thursday 3:30-6:30 PM 
'I need 6' PURDUE GAs Ted x1942 
WANTED: 2 GAs to the STANFORD game. Call E.J. at 272-4715. 
Have 2 Air Force GAs Need 2 Purdue GAs Want to trade? Jenny x1321 
Need 5 GAs any home game Also need 1 Air Force stud/GA Cathy x1321 
Need 2 Purdue GA Miami GAs and Studs Mike 273-1537 
Have 1 stud tix for home games. leave message. best offer. 2735 
Help! I need 5 Stanford G.A.s & 2 Studs. Call4110 and ask for $$Derek$$ 
NEED 2-4 AF GA'S. CALL KEVIN 273-1906 
I need 1 Purdue stud. ticket Call Heather x1333 or x1330 
I need 1 Miami stud. x1640 Pete 
NEED 2 PAIRS OF STANFORD GAs AND 1 STUD WILL TRADE OR SELL 1 MIAMI STUD 271-8749 
HELP! MY PARENTS ARE COMING ALL THE WAY FROM MONTANA AND NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S 
CALL RENZY AT X1945 
I NEED MICH ST tixs.272­
6306 
HELP! NEED STUD. OR GA FOR STANFORD GAME. CALL LAURIE 2822. 
H E L P!!! 
NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS PAYING TOP $$$$$ CALL JEFF@277-3998 
I need two Stanford GA's BAD II Parents will take back tuition if I don't come through!!!!lll! Call Mike X3506 
Need 2 Miami GAs Big$$ Angie x2110 I NEED TIX!I! 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN. TONY X1590 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES. CALL KEVIN X1589 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS ANOGA'S CALL 273-1364 
NEED MIAMI TICKETS???? ME TOO 4 STUDENT TICKETS for 
Miami fans that need 
humbling. 
272-8954 Amy 
BIG $$OR ROUND TRIP AIRFARE TO ACAPULCO FOR SRING BREAK IN EXCHANGE FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. BOB AT 1-800-875­4525. 
NEED ALL THE STANFORD TIX I CAN GET. GA's. CALL DENNIS X2384 
NEED ALL TIX!!! #1588 Kevin 
NEED TICKETS FOR PURDUE, STANFORD OR AF. (312) 752-5314. 
WANTED: 2 MIAMI TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR. 404-923-4707. 
4 MIAMI GA's are what I need. So give them to me, please. Pete x1745 
Need GA's and stud tix for NO vrs Stanford PLEASE call Lisa at 5012 
I NEED 1 PENN STATE TICKET. CALL BILLY ­x1817. 
TRADE 2 STAN OR AF GA'S FOR 2 PRDU GA'S 'TIM'1407 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE STUD TIX X3566 
$$ Need 1 Miami stud tic $$ $$$$ #2894 $$$$ 
Hey-We need 3 Miami GA's Call Diana 234-4974 or David x1244 
Got Miami and other stud tix KEVEN 1588 
Parents coming for NO-Air Force Game. Need to buy general admission tickets. Call Mary Lou or Ray 234­3873. Would like to buy them now!!! 
i need 2-4 miami tix and 1 purdue tix call pat x3800 
NEED PENN ST STUD TIX X1581 -TOM 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S CALL ALEX X 1 068 
need 1 stud. tick. to Miami! have other tick. & $,call for deal.234-5840 John 
BUYING MIAMI STUDENT TICKETS -Need 4 Call Frank at 233-7357 
. . . __ ..•.. _ ••.••••••••••..•. see CLASS/pg 6 
Wednesday, September 19, 1990 
Defense needs work for Irish to beat State 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
If Notre Dame is to continue its dominance over Big Ten opponents, Lou Holtz says there must be more co­hesiveness among the de­fense. 
The Irish, who have won 11 straight games against Big Ten foes, will meet Michigan State Saturday afternoon in Spartan Stadium in East Lansing. Kickoff is set for 
2:37 p.m. Notre Dame time. 
One of Holtz's main con­cerns entering Saturday's game is the togetherness and unity of the Irish defense, which gave up 24 points last Saturday against Michigan. 
"We have seven players up front and those seven players must move in unison," Holtz said. "Everyone has got to have a physical relationship with each other. A guy can't break any tackles when you have three guys coming at him at the same time." 
Michigan's mammoth offen­sive line cleared the way for tailback Jon Vaughn to gain a career high 201 yards last Saturday. That was the most since Penn State's Blair Thomas rushed for over 200 yards in 1987. 
The Irish, in turn, were able to rush for 234 yards as a team. 
"We've never been able to run the ball against Michigan and they've never been able to run against us," Holtz said. "We were both running up and down the field. It was crazy." 
Both Holtz and Irish players said Michigan's no-huddle of­fense had little effect in the game. It was also the first game for the defense under new defensive coordinator Gary Darnell. 
"It's an adjustment period," 
said Irish linebacker Scott 
Kowalkowski. "Every team 
has a different personality 
and we're still finding ours. 
We have to get more people 
to the ball. We're going to 
have to dictate to the offense 
more." 
The Irish defense should 
get a big test Saturday 
against the Spartans, who 
opened their season with a 
23-23 tie against Syracuse 
last weekend. Notre Dame 
won last year's game with 
the Spartans 21-13. 
Michigan State led the Big Ten in 1989 in total yards gained per game with 418. In the season opener last week­end, the Spartans gained 171 yards on the ground and an­other 155 through the air. Senior quarterback Dan Enos completed 12 of 23 passes for all 155 of those yards. 
"Michigan State played very very well last year," Holtz said. "Their offense is pretty well intact." 
Kowalkowski, who played at Orchard Lake Saint Mary's High School in Orchard Lake, Mich., could make it a clean sweep against schools from his home state. The Irish have defeated Michigan and Michigan State seven con­secutive times in Kowalkowski's tenure with the team. 
"Coming from Michigan, it has a little more value," he said. "I have a lot of friends on the team there. In the same respect, I have to look at it as another game on the schedule. I don't want to be so up for Michigan State that we come out flat against Purdue." 
Irish cornerback Todd Lyght is still listed as doubtful for Saturday's game. 
By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
After soundly defeating Val­paraiso in a game the Irish knew they should win, the Notre Dame men's soccer team faces a similar situation when they host the Detroit Titans in the final game of their three­game homestand tonight at 7:30p.m. 

Steve LaVigne 
While the Irish have two wins under their belt, as well as nine starters from last year's 6­three tough losses to Top 20 13 team, led by David Pontia­
teams, the Titans are still 
towski and Matt Marske. 
searching for their first victory. So far on the season, Detroit 
Detroit has had trouble
has suffered losses to Michigan putting the ball in the goal, with State, Oakland and the same St. 
only one goal to show for theLouis team that narrowly de­season so far. They've also had
feated the Irish last Friday 
some difficulties on defense, asnight. 
they have allowed nine goals,But the Titans are returning including five against St. Louis. 
The Irish defeated the Titans both times they faced them last season, winning 4-3 in overtime at Detroit and 3-1 at home. In addition, Notre Dame is 2-0 against them in Krause Sta­dium. 
"Our main goal is to score early," said senior midfielder Steve LaVigne. "They're a lot better than people think. It's not going to be easy, but we're rolling and I think we'll be fine." 
The Irish hope they can con­tinue their aggressive play and put away the Titans early. Struggling with Detroit, a team like Loyola that they should beat, could hurt a Notre Dame team that needs be sharp going into a tough weekend against Michigan State and Marquette. 
Races heat up as Dodgers, Blue Jays win 
ATLANTA (AP) -Los Angeles Dodgers manager Tommy La­sorda says now is the time that all you can do is "hope and pray." 
On Tuesday it worked. 
Lasorda got a fine perfor­mance from rookie right-han­der Jim Neidlinger and Kal Daniels doubled home two runs and scored two as the Dodgers again crept within 4 1/2 games of Cincinnati in the National League West by defeating the Atlanta Braves 6-2. 
"In the situation we're in, you've got to win and get help from somebody else," Lasorda said after the Dodgers won for the fifth time in their last six games. "If you're playing the Podunk Yanks you've got to win. You can't split. If there were a month or a month-and­a-half to go it would be differ­ent." 
Giants 5, Reds 3 
CINCINNATI -Will Clark hit a pair of homers and Kevin Mitchell also homered for third­place San Francisco, which is 7 1/2 games out. Cincinnati's magic number for clinching its first division title since 1979 is 11. 
John Burkett (13-7) took a four-hitter and a 5-l into the ninth but needed help from Steve Bedrosian, who got his 13th save. The Giants' three homers -solo shots by Clark and Mitchell and a two-run homer by Clark -came off Tom Browning (13-9), who is 1­3 in five starts with an 8.78 ERA since spraining his left an­kle on Aug. 17. 
Blue Jays 3, Yankees 2 
TORONTO -Toronto moved into a first-place tie with Boston in the American League East on Tuesday night as Rance Mulliniks' run-scoring pinch single with two outs in the ninth inning gave the Blue Jays a 3-2 victory over the New York Yankees. 
The Blue Jays have won five straight games and 10 of their last 12, to equal Boston at 81­
68. The Blue Jays trailed Boston by 6 1/2 games on Sept. 4. 
Orioles 4, Red Sox 1 
BALTIMORE -Boston's Tom 
Bolton pitched 6 1-3 hitless innings before Baltimore solved him with four runs in the seventh, including rookie David Segui's three-run homer, as Orioles dropped the Red Sox into a first-place tie with Toronto. 
The Red Sox have lost five of six and 11 of 16. About the only good news they had Tuesday was Roger Clemens throwing hard on the sidelines and pen­ciled in to start on Sunday against the Yankees. 
Bolton (9-4) took his no-hitter and a 1-0 lead into the seventh, but he couldn't finish the inning as the Orioles got five hits ­four of them with two outs. 
Expos 4, Mets 3 
NEW YORK -The New York Mets blew another chance to move into first place in the National League East on Tuesday night, wasting Darryl Strawberry's dramatic game­tying three-run homer in the eighth inning and losing to the Montreal Expos 4-3 on pinch­hitter Junior Noboa's RBI single in the ninth. 
ND women's soccer hopes to continue victory streak 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team (3-2) wraps up its three game homestand against Saint Joseph's of Renesselar this evening at 5 p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 
So far this season, the Irish are an impressive 3-0 at home, with victories over Northeast Missouri State, Valparaiso, and Washington University. In the lifetime series against Saint Joseph's, Notre Dame holds a 2­0 edge. The Irish came away from last year's matchup with a 4-1 win. 
Saint Joseph's, located in Re-
The Observer page 11 
Men's soccer looks to defeat Detroit 
nesselar, Indiana, is a member of the Great Lakes Valley Con­ference, as well as the NCAA's Division III. The Lady Pumas currently sport a 2-4 record, with wins coming over Trinity College and Northeast Missouri State (a 1-0 victory the day be­fore the Irish thumped NMSU 5­
1). 
"I'm sure that they will be ex­cited to play us," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petru­celli. "They are a decent team, and they will give us a good struggle. It is very important that we do not look past this game to the weekend." 
Indeed it is. This weekend, the Irish will be hitting the road for their second two-game swing of the season. However, the Irish are not heading down to the southern sun for a reunion with Duke and Greensboro. Instead, they will be trekking north to the nippy climates of Michigan State and Marquette for two key regional games. Notre Dame's hopes for regional powerhouse status would certainly be dampened by a loss to Saint Joseph's. Additionally, the timing of such a loss would not help the Irish on their trip north. 
"We had a great weekend," said junior forward Susie Zilvi­tis, who leads the youthful Irish in scoring with four goals and three assists this season ( 11 points total). Two of her goals were game-winners. 
"I'm very optimistic about the team. We're young, but we're also talented. Our lack of expe­rience was evident on our trip to North Carolina, and it was tough to play those teams so early. Now we're getting expe­rience and putting in lots of hard work. This weekend started a roll for us. If we keep working hard, the rest of the season should be just fine," Zilvitis said. 
NOTES: The Notre Dame women's soccer team has been ranked 1Oth in the Midwest re­gion in the most recent poll of the ISAA coach's committee. According to reports, this is the first time in the history of Notre Dame women's varsity soccer that they have been ranked in the region. 
"This is a big step for our program," said Petrucelli, "but I also know that having a num­ber on a piece of paper does not necessarily mean that we've arrived. Going into the season, I expected us to reach a level where we would be ranked, but I expect it to be a lot higher. 
"These next three games are important to achieving that. If we can come up with a win over Michigan State, we will solidify ourselves in the Top 10." 

nay? 
Driving Miss Daisy 
HEY
!!! TONIGHT!!! in 
SAINT 
Caroll Auditorium 
MARY'S
9:00 & 11:15 Only $1.00 for this Oscar Winning Film 
Former Governor of New Mexico 
"Changing Face of Politics in the 21st Century" 
Thursday, Sept. 20, 1990 
7:00 p.m. Carroll 

0 
nurr 


r 
Wednesday, September 19, 1990
page 12 The Observer 
NOTRE DAME AND THE MCC 
A look at four Olympic sports and their MCC plights 
MCC 
continued from page 16 
son. Director of Athletics at Xavier University. "Notre Dame is in many cases better funded than most of our sports. but those are the targets to shoot for." 
Notre Dame does more than set an athletic standard for other MCC teams. It also pro­vides excellent sports facilities. including Rolfs Aquatic Center. Loftus Sports Center, Eck Ten­nis Pavilion and Stanley Cov­eleski Stadium. the home of the South Bend White Sox. 
"The strength of any program is always the people, and we have great respect for the administrators of Notre Dame," said Fogelson. "They definitely bring great things to the conference. They're willing and active participators in the conference. and we definitely appreciate that." 
For Notre Dame's part, its stated commitment to the MCC could not be clearer. 

OUTDOORSADVENTURE! 
NEVER TRIED CAMPING? 
WANT TO LEARN HOW TO MAKE IT SAFE AND FUN?~~~\j~.~ 
ONE-NIGHT CAMPING TRIP SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
POTATO CREEK STATE PARK 
REGISTRATION AND TRIP PREPARATION WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 6:30-9:00PM ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER CLASSROOM 
ROPE BRIDGES SHELTEA BUILDING "OWL PROWLS" STARGAZING 
SPONSORED BY NVA 
"We have had phenomenal success in the MCC," said Rosenthal. "I think that's prob­ably, personally, an aberration. We see the MCC schools getting significantly better in a variety of sports. 
"We believe it's the best way for our teams to have the chance at national competition. and because it gives us an af­fordable scheduling opportu­nity. All of our schools in the conference are within easy commutes, most of them by car." 
MCC: Affordable, Convenient 
Affordability and proximity are two advantages to staying in the MCC. When Notre Dame's participation in the MCC comes into question. the tantamount consideration is where the Irish will move. 
"I see how it would be very difficult for Notre Dame to exist as an independent and schedule as much because of other team's conference com­mitments," said Assistant Ath­letic Director Brian Boulac. "We'd be forced to play them when they had time, which would interfere with class schedules, and we would have to face certain realities." 
Central to those realities is the time commitment. Notre Dame athletes are not allowed to miss more than three days of school because of sports. This makes membership in almost any other conference not logis­tically feasible. 
Certain proponents have ad­vocated membership in the Big East. which although not within driving distance are inexpensive flights to metropolitan areas. Georgetown. St. John's, Vil­lanova. Pittsburgh and Boston College are near major airports. 
Although many Olympic sports. such as tennis, swim­ming and cross country. com­pete only in conference champi­onships, all team sports must play a substantial number of games, usually more than 20. This makes the possibility of air flights financially difficult. 
For all its inadequacies, the MCC is a conference. A confer­ence gives teams the ability to showcase its talents, gain indi­vidual recognition, and a source of competition from year to year. And it appears to be the only choice for Notre Dame. 
"I think it's good to be in this conference, and at the moment the MCC seems to be our only alternative," said McGraw. "The North Star is instable and has no men's program. It's also not as strong in terms of what a conference can do." 
The Future of the MCC 
All MCC members have stated that they are committed to growth and development within the conference. But the fact remains that teams like Butler. Marquette, Evansville and St. Louis do not have the financial resources for their Olympic programs that Notre Dame has. This introduces the question of whether the schools will back up their statements with action. 
"I think we have every expec-
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre pa·esents Catholic University's National Players performing THE TAMING OF THE SHREW 
Wednesday Sept. 19 thru Saturday, Sept 22 8:10pm 
Sunday, Sept. 23 3:10pm 
I 1 Washington Hall 
Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office $7 $5 Stu./ Sen. Cit.-Wed., Thu., Sun. 
Master Card/ Visa orders call 239-8128 
tations that things are on track with the MCC," said Rosenthal. "When you make decisions and find out premises are inaccu­rate, you have to calculate the logic that went into the deci­sion. We are delighted with our association with the MCC. but we will always opt to ensure the most competitive schedules we can do." 
And if the MCC does not con­vince the NCAA to give it auto­matic bids to sports like base­ball. women's basketball and women's volleyball? 
"It's so hard to be dealing in speculation," answered Rosen­thal. "If we give sufficient commitment and hard work, inevitably we'll get the auto­matic bid. Notre Dame has pledged itself to do just that. 
"We observe and trust that the other member schools of the MCC are just as committed as we are, and that gives us ab­solute confidence than we will succeed in building it into one of the great conferences in the country." 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Assistant Sports Editor 
Case Study: Women's basketball 
Last year, women's head coach Muffet McGraw led her team to a perfect 18-0 confer­ence record as the team won the MCC Championship. Overall, the team finished 23-6, but did not receive a bid to the NCAA tournament. 
Notre Dame's being passed over could be attributed to a 2­3 record versus teams in the Top 20, including a loss to Old Dominion at the buzzer. But while Notre Dame was playing 16 regular-season games in the conference, other teams were impressing the NCAA tourna­ment selection committee, which looks heavily on strength of schedule. 
"Teamwise, it's great to be conference champions," said McGraw, in her fourth year as head coach. "Going undefeated was not done before, so that was good. 
"The disadvantage is that there is no automatic bid (to the NCAA tournament). But we really feel like we'll get one. 
The way you get to the NCAA tournaments is by beating good teams, and what we have to do is win the conference and do well outside the conference." 
Case Study: Men's Soccer 
The men's soccer example, however. demonstrates a posi­tive advantage to the MCC. Not only is it Notre Dame's only sport in which the conference winner gets an automatic bid to the NCAA, but members Evansville and St. Louis are perennial Top 20 teams that add competition and credibility to the conference. 
Since Notre Dame joined the MCC in 1988. the team is 15-3­1, with all losses coming against St. Louis. 
Last season, Notre Dame lost in the semifinals of the MCC tournament to a powerful St. Louis team that later lost to Evansville in the final. In 1988, the Irish won the tournament, moving on to the NCAA tour­nament for the first time in the program's 12-year history. 
Case Study: Women's VoUey­baU 
The disadvantage of strength of schedule also is found in the case of women's volleyball. The team, which went to the NCAA tournament in 1988 as an inde­pendent. was required to join the MCC this year. 
Most cf the women's volley­ball teams in the MCC this year are teams that have switched from the North Star Conference in the mid-1980's. 
Now the MCC has been dubbed "North Star revisited" by some. Dayton, Marquette, Evansville, Loyola. St. Louis, Butler and Notre Dame all participated in the North Star conference in 1986 and 1987, at which time the Irish won the division with 33-7 and 30-9 records, but never received a bid. 
Yet in 1988, after the Irish withdrew from the North Star and went 18-11 as an indepen­dent against a much stronger schedule, they received an at­large bid to the NCAA tourna­ment. After a year of rebuilding in 1989, the team now is part of the MCC, in which only 82 percent of the games played last year were against Division I teams. 
"For the Notre Dame volley­ball team," said Head Coach Art Lambert, "there are no ad­vantages." 
One disadvantage for the 
team is that one-third of the Irish schedule will be spent against MCC teams, which in turn cuts into scheduling against meatier teams. 
"Beating (MCC teams) isn't like beating Texas, Nebraska or UCLA." said senior right-side hitter Amy White. "It's like beating nobody, which doesn't amount to much to the NCAA (committee). It cuts into the season, and it makes half of (the season) really hard and the other half not as tough as it could be." 
Case Study: BasebaU 
For the Notre Dame baseball team, being a member of the MCC became problematic when the NCAA withdrew its auto­matic bid to the MCC confer­ence winner in 1989. 
"The loss of the bid was a slap in the face," said baseball coach Pat Murphy, whose 1989 squad came out of the loser's bracket of the MCC tournament to win and move to the NCAA playoffs. "I'd like to figure out why they did that. When you look at what (1988 conference champion) Evansville and we have done nationally there's no reason we shouldn't have one." 
Both Evansville in 1988 and Notre Dame in 1989 won at least one game before being eliminated from the NCAA tournament. Now. the consid­erable number of games the teams play in the MCC forces them to scramble for feasible dates with baseball power­houses so they may prove themselves to the NCAA tour­nament selection committee. 
Notre Dame, however, has no cake-walk through the MCC, especially since the conference winner is determined by a post­season, double-elimination tournament. In three years. Notre Dame has won the tour­nament once (1989), finishing second in 1990 and third in 1988. 
"I think it's a very competitive conference," said senior short­stop Mike Coss. "We're starting to build good rivalries. I guess 
you could say there  are  no  
powerhouses, but we  usually  
have good games."  

Said Murphy: "The baseball side of things has improved ev­ery year. It's a good conference. It's just probably not recognized across the country and that's something we need to improve on if we're going to stay in this conference." 


Wednesday, September 19, 1990 
The Observer page 13 
NOTRE DAME AND THE MCC 
What the Olympic sport coaches say about the MCC 



Muffet McGraw 
'I think it's good to be in this conference, and at the moment the MCC seems to be our only alternative. The (all women's) North Star Conference is instable and has no men's program. It (The North Star) is also not as strong in terms of what a conference can do.' -Muffet McGraw, women's basketball 
Pat Murphy 
'The baseball side of things has improved every year. It's a good conference. It's just probably not recognized across the country and that's something we need to improve on if we're going to stay in this conference.' 
-Pat Murphy, men's baseball 
Art Lambert 
'For the Notre Dame volleyball team, there are no advantages.' 
-Art Lambert, women's volleyball 
Bob Bayliss 
'It's selfish of me to kill the idea of being in the MCC. If it benefits others, it's certainly 
O.K. for us to go along, and we do. We're not giving up much and not getting much.' -Bob Bayliss, men's tennis 
Joe Piane 
'For cross country, the meet works into our schedule very nicely. For track, it presents an opportunity for us to run a lot of different athletes.' -Joe Piane, men's cross country and track 
IN 
continued from page 16 
continue to play their inde­pendent football schedule and finance the operations of the entire Athletic Department. 
But financial considerations make joining the Big East, or any conference which plays a basketball schedule, undesir­able. The Irish, believe it or not, were on network TV seven times last season, excluding the NCAA Tournament. 
OUT 
continued from page 16 
detriment that selection committees weigh heavily when deciding which schools they should invite to the national championships. 
Baseball, women's basketball and volleyball are all pertinent examples. Last year, the NCAA eliminated the automatic bid to the MCC baseball champions. In women's basketball, the 1989­90 Irish were 18-0 in league play, including a 12-0 stretch in the crucial closing weeks of the season. They did not receive a bid. 
Women's volleyball joins the MCC this year and will again compete against teams it faced as part of the North Star con­ference, tallying records of 33-7 and 30-9 in 1986 and 1987. The Irish squad did not earn a bid to the tournament until 1988, however, when as 
By comparison, Syracuse made four network TV appear­ances, excluding the Big East and NCAA Tournaments. So the Orangemen got less exposure than the Irish. They also got less money. 
It is safe to assume that Syracuse receives roughly the same stipend for a network ap­pearance as Notre Dame (approximately $125,000) after the network money is split up evenly among the nine members of the Big East. Simple arithmetic will tell you that the Irish would have lost 
independents they went 18-11. It's obvious national officials do not respect many of the MCC's programs. Being champions of that conference is no big deal to them. 
In some sports, the MCC does receive bids to the NIT tourna­ment. That means the women's basketball team could best hope to finish a stellar 49th in the country while volleyball might actually reach that cov­eted 33rd ranking. 
Meanwhile, Irish teams are wasting a majority of their sea­sons playing these feeble MCC teams, when they could be scheduling Top 20 non-confer­ence match-ups and raising their level of play. 
Scheduling around its MCC opponents, Notre Dame must hope that the national powers have the same free weekends as the Irish. For the volleyball team, this means doubling up MCC matches so that weekends can be left for games with the 
Take apair of Macroblade•608 in-line skates for a fast workout It's a great way to get in shape, or stay in shape -and have fun 
while you're doing it. IJt,{lol/erblade 
Try Rollerblades this Friday ~ 
CUT?CST
from 5 -9 PM at THE MILf•l•lcf:WI OUTPOST! It's the hottest 
3602 GRAPE ROAD 
MISHAWAKA. IN -UU-15
trainin ear in the country. 
tl11Jl ZSIJ·1000 
$375,000 if they had to divide up their money among the rest of the Big East like Syracuse does. 
So the Irish, as long as they can put together a competitive basketball schedule, don't want to play in a hoops conference either. What's left, then? What conference would even want Notre Dame as a member if its basketball and football teams had to remain independent? 
3. The MCC is the only al­ternative that makes any sense. 
You can argue that the MCC 
Minnesotas and Ohio States. 
And when the Irish do play MCC teams, are they really finding the best possible compe­tition? Women's basketball de­feated MCC opponents by an average of more than 22 points last season. Baseball was 25-3 in MCC games. Athletes may find it difficult to make ade­quate mental preparations when they know they will prob­ably trounce their opponents. And teams can ill afford off­nights to teams they usually dominate. 
In addition, conference games are de-emphasized because the teams realize that a win against an MCC foe will not add to their national standing. The Irish must rely on what they do out­side the league to improve their appearance in the national picture. 
While athletic directors at MCC schools claim they are working to improve their pro­grams, a look at schedule strength illustrates that the hurts the baseball team now that the NCAA took away the conference's automatic bid. Even if there was a bid, though, the Irish wouldn't have won it last year (Evansville won the MCC Tournament). 
You can argue that the MCC hurts the women's basketball team, which was 23-6 last sea­son but was snubbed by the NCAA tournament selection committee because of an 18-0 record against a weak MCC schedule. But don't forget that 
Irish are head and shoulders above the rest of the league. In volleyball, Notre Dame will play 100 percent of its matches against Division I schools. Last year, the rest of the conference competed against Division I teams 82 percent of the time, barely maintaining the 80 per­cent minimum required by the NCAA for a school to retain Di­vision I status. 
In women's basketball, for example, the other MCC schools' non-conference oppo­nents include teams like Akron and Cincinnati while Notre Dame is playing Tennessee, Old Dominion and UCLA. 
Finally, the MCC hinders the Irish from drawing the best possible players. It's hard to believe that a high school star in any sport could get excited about regularly facing teams like Xavier and Loyola. Plus, Notre Dame coaches have to be honest in admitting to recruits that the prospects of NCAA Muffet McGraw's troops were only 5-6 outside the conference last year. 
The bottom line, though, is dollars and cents, and Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal, with his banking background, is wise enough to see this. Notre Dame would just lose too much money if it pulled out of the MCC. In order to keep the Irish athletics in the black, Notre Dame must remain in the MCC. 
There just isn't any other logical solution. 
tournament play are presently slim at best. 
Athletic directors at the MCC schools have pledged to im­prove their school's programs, but Notre Dame officials have to ask themselves if this is truly possible. None of the schools have Notre Dame's reputation and may never be able to keep up with the Irish in terms of athletic facilities, their ability to schedule Top-20 opponents and, most importantly, their power to attract the caliber of coaches and players needed to become nationally prominent. 
If Notre Dame really wants to elevate all of its sports pro­grams to the same level as football and men's basketball, the University should allow the teams to schedule their seasons as independents or in the most feasible and competitive con­ference. The Irish should have no problem compiling an excit­ing schedule while eventually raising all the programs to the highest level in college sports. 
, 
GENERAL MILLS 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN FINANCE AND CONTROLLERSHIP 
Thursday, September 20th 8:00-10:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Reception to Follow Presentation 
Junior and Senior Finance and Accounting Majors: Come and talk about career opportunities at General Mills. 
r -~-­
, ;p=a~ge==1=4==========.-..........;=============~~~~=T~h~e~O~bs~e~~~e~r----------~--------~~;----W~e-dn_e_s_d_a_y,_s_e_p_te_m~be:r~1~9;,_1_9 9o 
SPORTS BRIEFS Officials are needed for soccer, women's flag football and grad/fac football. Sign up in the NVA office by today. 
The Hapkido Club meets Tues. and Thurs. at 8:30 
p.m. in Rm. 219 Rockne. Learn self-defense and sparring techniques. For more information, call Ron at x3504. Beginners welcome. 
The Notre Dame swim team is seeking back-up timers for the swim meets and for people with experience in the Colorado Time System. All who are interested should attend at meeting Sunday, Sept. 23rd at 1 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center classroom. 
All varsity crew team members should attend a meeting Thursday, Sept. 20th at 7:30p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. Payment for Pittsburgh will be collected. 
Novice crew team members should attend a meeting today at 7:30 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. Bring your checkbooks for dues and shirt. 
NV A Golf Scramble -The deadline for the 2 Person Golf Scramble is today. Entrants must sign-up at the Golf Shop, located in Rockne. 
Domer Runs will be Saturday, Sept. 22. Three and six 
mile races start at 10 a.m.; participants receive tee-shirt and pancake breakfast. Sign up at NVA. 
Outdoor Adventure c ass will be held today; overnight campout to be held Sept. 22-23; $10 fee includes all but personal clothing. Call NVA for details. 
Putt-Putt Golf Tourney will be held Sept. 23rd; $5 fee per team. Please sign up by today at NVA. 
Irish Insanity will meet today in the Engineering Auditorium (Rm. 117 Cushing) at 7:30 p.m. Sports Marketing Director Bill Scholl will address the group and plans will be made for the Purdue weekend. All are welcome. 
The Notre Dame men's volleyball team will be holding tryouts for the 1990-91 season this Sunday. Sept. 23rd, at 6 p.m. in the JACC pit (near gate 3).Any questions, call Tom at x3697. 
The Notre Dame/St. Mary's Gymnastic Club will meet Mon.-Fri. from 4:30-6:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility at SMC. New members are welcome; no experience necessary. Questions, call Mary at 284-5341, Timmy at 3268. John at 2101 or Katie at 4877. 
!l 
'! 
,l 
CAREER FAIR 
! 
11 :00am-4:00pm Fitzpatrick Hall 
Bring your resumes! 
' 
Representatives from over 35 major companies Opportunities for full-time employment 
~ 
and summer internships 
ND women's golf places 9th __ 
Phares shoots 161 to finish eighth at ISU tournament 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports writer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team spent an encouraging weekend at Illinois State Uni­versity. 
The team's total of 679 al­lowed them to finish ninth overall out of a field of 17 teams at the ISU Invitational. 
In addition. Notre Dame's top finisher, sophomore Kathy Phares. finished with a two day total of 161 and placed eighth overall. Seniors Roberta Bryer and Pandora Fecko finished with two day scores of 170 and 184, respectively. 
Fecko was optimistic about the team's performance. 
"We had a good showing the first day and we were about twenty strokes off the lead," 

Kathy Phares 
said Fecko. "On Sunday, we didn't adjust to the conditions and we didn't play up to expec­tations." 
Coach George Thomas echoed her thoughts. 
"We played extremely well," said Hanlon, "especially the first day." 
Hanlon was especially pleased with Phares' play. He 

WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
il 
li ,·, 

·INDUSTRY DAY 
1.1 
noted that the team had to use three freshmen because some of the upperclassmen could not attend the meet. 
"We got a lot of help on the first day from Klein and Mur­ray," said Hanlon, referring to freshmen Chrissy Klein and Ali­cia Murray, who posted totals of 174 and 175, respectively. Another frosh, Denise Paulin. contributed a 185. 
Hanlon was happy with his team's play, especially in the first round. Heavy winds on the second day of competition low­ered all scores. 
"We were only three shots behind three of the real strong teams after the first day," said Hanlon. "Overall, we were five strokes lower than last year. 
"We continue to lower score each tournament we play. I am really am encouraged." 
TH~NrKSNOW 
VOllEYBAll 
Come Across the Border 
Cup Night 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
~
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING ~ SEPTEMBER 19th : : 
: 
: 
:
BANQUET 
: 
:
H ors d'oeuvres 
: 
5:30-6:30 pm : 
:
South Bend Marriott : 
:
sponsored by General Electric 
: 
Dinner : 
:
6:30pm : 
:
South Bend Marriott 
: 
: 
: ~ : 
: 
:
United Limo Buses leave main Circle starting at 5:00 PM and 
: 
run until 9:30 PM to shuttle students back and forth between : 
:
campus and the Marriott. 
: 
: 
:
sponsored by JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL : ~ and SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS : 
: 
: 
: 
~ 



The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS No. 0808
CROSSWORD 

Wednesday, September 19, 1990 
3 p.m. Graduate Seminar, "Autoclave Processing of Long Fiber Composites," Prof. M.P. Dudukovic, Washington University. Room 303 Cushing Hall. Sponsored by Department of Chemical Engineering. 
6:30 p.m. "Finance Club Career Opportunity Night." More than 20 corporations will attend to discuss em­ployment opportunities with business seniors and juniors. Joyce ACC Monogram Room. Sponsored by the Finance Oub. 
7 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "His Girl Friday," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
7 p.m. "A Conversation with Spanish/Latin American Women Professors: A Comparison of Their Societies and Their Experiences in the United States," Room 121 Hayes-Healy. Sponsored by the Spanish Club and the Year of Women Committee. 
8:10 p.m. Mainstage Season, "The Taming of the Shrew," by William Shakespeare. Performance by Catholic University's National Players. Washington Hall. Admission $7. Sponsored by Notre Dame's Department of Communication and Theatre. 
9 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Cat People," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Top Round of Beef Grilled Sole Noodle Kugel 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
~ws 1\-IE I TOO'!:. P£.MNit5 ANO '5\{ot.l£\) MAT\.1 L£5SOK HOW f..DD\1-lG-AND '5\l~a\~G GOING:' ~Ell\ C\1fo..NGE.~ 1-\()W M\JCI-\ \.\OWe.''( \-\£. \-1"0. 1\S N.O\ 

SO P..B'STAACI 1\-lr>-.T Wfo..'<. 
\ 
((,00'0. ~r-.~~t. NCl't-i G\'Jt. ~'t. WM\ ~ \1E'LL DO Bt.ntR ANOTIIER. F1\JE MINVT£. IN CU..SS NO'N. ctN\5 ANO I 

The elephant's nightmare 
LEI'S st£ WH~I I ~f..VE! 
r) I 
~~: 

~.,.,, 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON CALVIN AND HOBBES 

~'s to« ~\JT BIJTIER 
~~IC\-1 ctlt#.\N~ ? '100'R£. 
IJ'Sit-lG C\\IJN\<1 ~fl.N\JT 
B\Jli£R, RIG\\T? 1 'NOOT 
£AT Slo\00~! 
\ 
S"'~~ ~ 
t>IO 'iOO CVI II 0\AGOt-W.Li? I l\KE. TRIMG\.£S ~ 
~ ~CIAAGLES, 'SO BE 
SJR.E 10 C\11 II RIQ-1\! 
\ 
J~~~~\1 
~'j~~--~~~~~ 
BILL WATTERSON 
MAKE II Mi G~ F~ct. ~ ~IC\t mo! ~1 Nr 1\1-1~ JE.ll'i OI-l IT OR t>.N'i\\1\NG .1 
-'KO \lSE ~E. ~MAL 
~0.1 l t>C>N~ l\I<E 1\\<:lS£. 
'tiE.IRO GRAIN BR£ta.DS .' 
NEY, llUS IS A 
Cl0'5E.D-FM:E, I-lORIIot-ll"N..l'i C\JT, SMOOT\-\ PEAI-l\JT 
BUTitR SANOWIQ( 00 W£1RO ~t> Wlrn ~BL~! W9etT 'bJ IJSTENI~!./ 
65"-these truths ..." 
66 Swift, appraising glance 
67 Had to have 
68 Middling grade 
69"-Kelly's Blues," Cahn-Heindorf song 
DOWN 
1"Ad-per Aspera," Kan. motto 
2Giobe 3 Busy 4 Furry TV fellow 5 Deadly 6The-Gay 
bomber 7Yield 8 Speed-limit letters 9 Greek god of 
war 10 Breakfast fruit 11 Careful and guarded 
12 Actress Sothern 
13 Hall u cinatory drug 15 Dr. Jekyll's 
hangout 
18 Ditch 
23 Ojibway pole carving 25 ReI i g i ou s factions 
27 Only 28AIIow 30 Ferber book 32 Panorama 35 Kilmer poem 36Epoch 37 Rigg or Ross 38 D'Artagnan's 
pals, e.g. 
39 Annoying person or situation 
40 Subtly sarcastic 41 Oh, so softly: Mus. abbr. 
SPELUNKER 
NO SHIRl 
NO StiOES NOSERVIC£ 

46 Cling (to) 55----Dame 47 Aerie fledgling 57 Prompter prefix 49 Young haddock 59 More than med. 51 Kind of 61 Barley beard 
committee 62 Bishopric 52 Roi's mate 63 "Kookie" 53 Lamas role in Byrnes 
"Falcon Crest" 64 School dance 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"Let's see ••• no orange .•• no root beer ••• no Fudgesicles ••. Well, for crying out loud! Am I out of everything?" 
0 
IZ·Z 
ACROSS 
1 Cinema canine 5 Nourished a Bat, cat or rat, e.g. 
14 He wrote "I, the Jury" 16 Primps 11 Something to live off 
19 Like Lucy's locks 20 Farm machine 21 Cousin of 
"Mayday!" 221n --(bogged down) 24 Penates' partners 
26 Void's partner 
29 Narrative poetry 
31 Neighbor of Calif. 
33 Water babies 34 Little tyke 36 Mischance 38 Something to 
look on 41 First showing 42 RR depot 43 Actress ladora 44 Prefix for 
metrical 45 Forbear's tail? 48 Groups of 
whales 50 Tangle 54 Arkin or Aida 56 Behave 58 Perfect 60 The self 61 What a speed 
demon might come to 

1: Sports 
Wednesday, September 19, 1990 
a e 16 
Notre Dame and the MCC: A good match? 
Irish dominate most sports, but few alternatives exist 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
When nine representatives of private universities met in Indi­anapolis to discuss circulating rumors about their athletic programs, the time had come for decisions to be made. 
Held April 26, the Council of Presidents had a goal: to dispel rumors that other avenues were being explored and to af­firm commitment of all parties to the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. The official out­come of the meeting, which in­cluded Notre Dame, was a re­newed resolve for all nine members to stay within and de­velop the MCC. 
These representatives of Marquette, Detroit, Loyola, Butler, Evansville, Saint Louis, Dayton, Xavier and Notre Dame united to support their common Olympic sports: men's baseball, men's and women's tennis, men's and women's cross country, men's and women's indoor track, men's and women's soccer, women's basketball, women's volleyball, men's and women's swimming, men's golf and women's soft­ball. 
Some have questioned Notre Dame's decision to stay within the conference. Notre Dame professes to treat its Olympic sports as a good mother would treat her children: it shows no favorites, preferences or biases. 
In keepinrr with this benefi­cent parent motif, the Notre Dame athletic philosophy in­cludes all sports in one happy family that adds to the univer­sity's "mission." 
How to classify the individual sports and where to put them, as in the question of the Olympic sports' membership in 
the Midwestern Collegiate Con­
I, 
I; 
ference, is a question that ad­
I~ ministrators, coaches and ath­
I)l 
letes have to answer.
It) 
"I don't think in our minds that there's any differentiation
1'11
li 
between any of our sports,"
ll 
1·1 
said Athletic Director Richard Rosenthal. "All our sports have equal charges; the philosophy that governs them is the same. We obviously have different budgets because there are dif­ferent dollars available, but they all march by the same drummer. 
"Our mission is to be part of the bigger mission of this uni­versity, and the only justifica­tion of our athletic program is to be part of that mission." 
That mission includes teach­ing students that they can de­velop their skills, that hard work pays off and that team­work and cooperation can overcome adversity. In the case of sports, according to Rosen­thal, Notre Dame owes its ath­letes the most challenging tests for skill development and over­coming adversity. 
The pertinent consideration here is how to challenge them. Notre Dame is a member of the MCC, a nine-team group of pri­vate universities with similar goals and priorities. Listening to Rosenthal makes the choice obvious. 
"We think the MCC has the prospects of growing into one of the premier conferences in the country," he said. "We have a great affinity with the schools in the MCC... They are collectively a group of schools who are intent on doing what we are doing, and that's becoming as competitive as we can possibly be." 
But an examination of MCC teams' commitments to Olympic sport excellence makes the question of conference mem­bership less obvious: 
•Last 
year Notre Dame Olympic sports captured nine MCC championships of the 12 in which they were included. 

•Since 
joining the MCC in Oc­tober 1987, Notre Dame sports programs have won 21 out of 27 conference championships in which they have competed. 

•Of 
the six sports in which conference winners can receive automatic bids to the NCAA 


:jj 
ND should leave MCC 
II·,
I; I I 
Statistically, there 
I 
is no good reason 
I 
why Notre Dame
I 
should be in the MCC. 
But because the Irish are so much 
:~l 
I~ 

stronger than the
I} 
rest of the Midwest CHRIS Collegi~~;te _confer-COONEY 
I 
ence (wmmng 9 of . 12 conference ASSIStant Sports championships last Editor 
year). it's easy to________ overlook the many other factors that make Notre Dame completely out of place in such a weak league. The university has stated time and again their dedication to building the level of the school's "Olympic" sports, presumably to the rank of national prominence that its football and men's basketball teams, both independents, en­joy. Making all of Notre Dame's sports as 
competitive as possible is said to in­fluence how these programs are run. 
·~ 
I 
Notre Dame should strive to raise every 
I 
I 
one of its programs to the highest status possible, with the specific goals of at­tracting the best athletes, playing difficult 
l 
~I 
1f i 
( 

selection committee withdrew the league's automatic bid last year. 
tournament, the MCC receives two, one of which is in men's basketball, a sport in which Notre Dame is an independent. 
These facts appear that Notre Dame might have to look elsewhere to give its athletes the best possible competition. 
The MCC: On the Upswing? 
The Council of Presidents in April was not the result of one or two isolated assertions. Ru­mors circulated that Notre Dame and other programs were looking elsewhere for con­ference affiliation, which in­spired the meeting and set the wheels of progress moving within the MCC. 
Included in these improve­ments are designating women's basketball, baseball, women's volleyball and men's soccer as "target priority sports," setting scholarship minimums and rec­ommending minimums on coaching staffs and recruiting funds, all to be required by 1991. 
"We're doing everything we can to upgrade our sports," said MCC President Jeff Fogel­
see MCC/page 12 

schedules and ultimately winning the NCAA championships. Unfortunately, the MCC is not the vehicle the Irish should be using in their drive to be number one. 
The titles support this statement 
·most visibly. Men's cross country, golf and indoor track, women's basketball and softball, and both men's and women's swimming and tennis all won the MCC last year. Softball lost to league opponents only three times in the regular season. The men's tennis team captured the conference champi­onship at every position. And the women!g basketball team was undefeated in MCC play. 
But Notre Dame should try to be more than just conference champs. Other reasons show why the MCC competes below Notre Dame's desired level. 
Post-season play is an excellent example. Only two MCC teams (men's soccer and men's basketball) receive automatic bids to the NCAA tournaments. For the other sports, the MCC is a 
see OUT/ page 13 
ND should stay in MCC 
Those who follow-------­Notre Dame's Olympic sports pro­grams are quick to badmouth the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference. Some even venture to suggest that the Irish should Ken Tysiac pull out of the MCC. . 
The MCC bashers Associate Sports are quick to cite Editor statistics about the-------­
lack of competition for the Irish in the conference. But they can't come up with a better solution. 
Consider the alternatives. 
1. Notre Dame's Olympic sports programs could become independent. 
Yeah, right. The Athletic Department would have to hire a dozen more people just to put together schedules for the Olympic sports teams. The prospect of negotiating for a 50-game schedule for Irish softball, for example, without a large number of conference games to start with, would give any Notre Dame sports administrator nightmares. 
The only other solution, then, is: 
2. Notre Dame could join another 
conference. 
This second solution seems great at first glance. Until you look for a spe­cific conference for the Irish to join. 
Forget about the Big 10, the SEC, the ACC, the Big Eight and the SWC. Notre Dame, after all, could not join a conference which required participa­tior). .for the Irish football team. Foot­ball is the great fountain of revenue which provides funds for the rest of the Athletic Department and pays for a quite a few scholarships besides. 
If Notre Dame joined a conference, all those big TV bucks the Irish earned would have to be shared with between eight and ten other schools. Put more simply, the Irish can't join a football conference because if they did, they would lose megabucks. 
That narrows the choices quite a bit. But there are still more choices. It has been rumored in the past that Notre Dame might join the Big East. After all, the Big East schools which have Division I football teams play their football schedules as independents. So if the Irish joined the Big East, Holtz & Co. could 
see IN/page 13 

