
VOL. XXIII NO. 128 FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Because of U.S. inaction, hostage won't be released 
BHIIUJT. Lebanon (API ­Pro-Iranian kidnappers said Thursday tlwy postponed indnfinitnly thn release of an Anwrican hostagn because the Unitl~d Stat1~s refused to send a snnior State Dnpartment official to Syria. 
Tlw Islamic Jihad for the l.ibnration of Palestine in a lnngthy statnmnnt repeated its demand that John Kelly, U.S. assistant secrntary of state for 
Nnar  East1~rn  affairs,  fly  to  
Damascus.  
It  also  nmnwed  thn~ats  to  

attack jdtliners and airports usmJ to transport thousands of Soviet .lnwish emigrants to lsnwl. Much of thn 500-word communique was devoted to the risn in Jewish emigrants, who Arab lnaders say could stn~ngthnn lsranl and displace Palnstinians from the occupied tnrritorins. 
In Damascus. Syrian Foreign Ministnr Farouk ai-Sharaa said his governmiHlt has "been nx•~rting a great deal of influnnen" to secure the hostage rnlnasn by Sunday. lie would not elaborate. 
Prnsid1~nt Bush said the Unitnd States has "been disappointed before" by dashed hopns for the release of American hostages and rn1Hmtnd that hn will not meet the demands of kidnappers. 
"'Thn Unitnd States does not knuekln undPr to demands," said Bush when asked why he did not dispatch Kelly to Damaseus. 
Bush's stand was criticized by an Arab-American leader and a relative of American hostage Terry Anderson. 
Anderson's sister, Peggy Say, told CBS News she was "totally puzzled by the attitude of reluctance to move forward and get on with this. If they want John Kelly, send them John Kelly." 
M.T. Mehdi, president of the American-Arab Relations Committee in New York, said in a statement that the United States "fumbled" the opportunity to help release a hostagn. 
The kidnappers' statement was accompanied by an instant photograph of Robert Polhill, one of three U.S. educators held by the group since Jan. 24, 1987. It was delivered to the Beirut newspaper an-Nahar and to a Western news agency. 
In a communique Wednesday, the group said Kelly should go to Damascus "to coordinate some final steps to guarantee success within 48 hours." They said a hostage would be freed within that time frame but did not say which one. 
The White House refused to dispatch Kelly. Doing so would either have engaged the United States in negotiations over the hostages or given that appearance, a senior U.S. official explained Wednesday night. 
However, the U.S. Ambassador to Syria, Edward Djerjian, flew back to Damascus on Thursday. He and 
see HOST AGEl page 4 



Spring afternoon siesta 
The Observer/Pat Kusek 

Karen Sharpe of Lewis Hall takes the opportunity to relax on a blanket and read a newspaper on the lawn outside of Pangborn Hall recently. This was one of the senior's last chances to enjoy the balmy South Bend weather before graduating. 
Second NO 
student 

attacked 
By MICHAEL OWEN 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame student was attacked Thursday at 2:10a.m. in the D6 parking Jot west of the ROTC building. 
This is second attack on a female student in the past two days that has been reported to Notre Dame Security. 
The victim was wearing stereo headphones as she walked east away from her parked car. She heard a voice she described as "deep" call her name, according to Mike Garvey, assistant director of Public Helations and Information. 
At that point. the student was seized from bnhind by thn left shoulder. She was able to free herself by struggling out of her jacket. She then fled to Lyons Hall where she reported the attack to a hall monitor who immediately notified Security, according to the re­port. 
According to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security, there, "appear to be some simi­larities between the description of this attacker and the one from Easter Sunday." A Saint Mary's student reported Wednesday that she was at­tacked while on her way to Easter mass at Notre Dame. 
When asked if there was the possibility that the attacker was a student, Hurley said, 
see ATIACK I page 4 

Environmental protection 'profitable' 
By JOHN FISCHER 
News Writer 
l~nvironnwntal protection can he profitable for large corpora­tions. Grant Smith said in a lncturn Thursday concerning toxic waste in Indiana. 
Smith. director of the Indiana Toxic Action Project. said that prolitabln nnvironrnnntal mea­SUfi\S arn dnpendent upon the shift in policy from waste man­
• EPA report/ page 5 
agnment to pollution preven­
tion. 
Corporations and the gov­nrnment currently focus their policies on toxic waste dis­posal, according to Smith. llowever, the most popular methods of disposal, incinera­tion and landfill. do not prevent exposure to waste. 
"Toxic waste cannot be com­pletely destroyed; the public is exposed in one way or an­other," Smith said. 
Landfills can leak and incin­eration releases toxic waste into the atmosphere, Smith said. Other methods of waste disposal pollute rivers and groundwater. Government and corporate support of off-site recycling of waste is not envi­ronmentally effective either. he said. 
Pollution prevention can be profitable, according to ~mith, because, "When an industry doesn't produce waste, it saves a tremendous amount of money." because transporta­tion and disposal of waste as well as their liability would be eliminated. 

Smith's group has proposed legislation making it manda­tory for retailers to publicize the use of alternative products to ones that are potentially harmful to the atmosphere. He cited as an example the use of vinegar and water as a cleaning 
agent in  place of  one  which  
contains  chloroflouroc arbons  
(CFC's).  

For farmers, low-or no­chemical agriculture can reduce their total outlay by as much as a third without substantially affecting the volume of the crop. he said. 
Smith noted that currently food is being overproduced and left to rot in warehouses, so a slight decrease in production would not be a liability. Smith endorsed this solution particu­larly for independent farmers and secondarily for corporate farms. 
"Smaller farms are more economically and environmen­tally efficient." he said. 
The state of Indiana is in a particular bind, according to Smith, as it is currently the sixth largest emitter of toxic materials in the country and the sixteenth in toxic watm emissions. 
In addition, 37 off-site recy­cling areas in the state have been cited for Superfund cleanup efforts. While stating that the public supports envi­ronmental efforts, Smith said that lack of government inter­est on the state level has led to this situation. 
Even on the national level, Smith said, a new EPA bill mixes preventive measures with waste management measures including off-site recycling, thus diluting the impact of the preventive legislation. 
The Indiana Toxic Action Project is a member organiza­tion of the Citizens' Action Coalition(CAC). The CAC is comprised of unions and church, urban, and environ­mental groups, and is con­cerned with issues of energy conservation, health care, and the environment, among others. 
Consisting of 150,000 mem­bers and founded in 1975, the CAC's primary purpose is to recommend legislation, and, according to Smith, " ... to work on sensible policies for busi­nesses and consumers." 
Charity Ball is effort to alleviate world hunger 

By KRISTIN BAZANY 
News Writer 
The 1990 Charity Ball, a 

joint effort by the Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's 
communities to alleviate 
world hunger, will take place 
tonight in the North Dining 
Hall at Notre Dame. 
The goal of the ball is to 
raise money to support both 
the Michiana Food Bank and 
the Catholic Relief Services. 

The efforts of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities began in 1983 when the first Charity Ball was held in response to the food crisis in Ethiopia. That year the event raised over $10,000 for the Catholic Relief Services. Last year the ball raised $5,000 which was divided between Catholic Relief Services and the Michiana Food Bank. 
Catholic Relief Services is a non-profit organization which provides both devel­opment assistance and emergency relief to seventy countries and 15 million people world wide. The self­help programs provided in­clude areas such as nutri­tion, mother and child health care, sanitation, food pro­duction and other long term community development ac­tivities. 
The Michiana Food Bank is also a non-profit charity 
organization which acts as a 
bridge between the food in­
dustry and charity feeding 
programs. This bank is only 
one of 200 food banks which 
exist nationally and one of 
nine food banks located in 
Indiana, all of which are 
part of the Second Harvest 
National Food Bank 
Network. 
Part of the money raised at the ball will go to the food bank which is currently serv­ing 70 charitable agencies in five counties of northern Indiana. The warehousn in South Bend alone has dis­tributed nearly 1.5 million pounds of food since it opened. 
The cost to run the Charity Ball this year is $3,000 with a goal of $8,000 to be raised for Catholic Relief Services and the Michiana Food Bank. 
The honorary chairman for this years ball is Father Malloy. His efforts along with those of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and the South Bend community have been strong so far and the volunteers hope to prove that strength by reaching their $8,000 goal this evening. 
Other main contributors to the ball include the Notre Dame Credit Union, The 
see BALL' page 4 


--~ ­

page 2 The Observer Friday, April 20, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Diploma fee proves nothing in life is free 
I was informed of a rather amazing oc-Michael Owen currence at this uni-News Copy Editor 
versity that I think many other people would find a bit tacky. It's not a major thing, like the new 

dining hall suggestion --------­
boards or opening day for the South Bend White Sox. What I found out was that every senior this year will be billed for the printing of his or her diploma to the tune of $15.00. 
I know -amazing subject for an Inside Column. It's not the amount that counts, though, it's the idea. After all they've been through and paid for, the university's last official document for them, the students' goal for four or more years, is being billed to their parents for $15.00. 
Is nothing sacred? What's next? Ap­pointments to take pictures of the Golden Dome for the bargain basement price of $4.99? Cut-out models of Monk Malloy and The Gipper on football weekends outside of the stadium? 
Are we in such dire need of income that they really couldn't just give you the thing for free? I don't think the NBC contract is exactly shrinking the Golden Pot. 
I've seen the elusive diploma. Three in fact. $15.00 is definitely not market value for these babies. They fit the right qualifica­tions for a college diploma. They take up half of your office wall and have plenty of Latin written in New York Times Bold print. One of them had a nice sketch on it. 
It was a Notre Dame nightlife theme (I think it came from the seventies). It had Bridget's, Theodore's night club, and Ra­mona's Car Wash all nicely blended in the background in various hues of Technicolor. O.K., that's fake but I might pay $15.00 for one of those. 
Think about it. By the time we get out of here each one of us will have provided this school with at least $50,000. Cap and gown, maybe, but my diploma? 
This brings up other heinous economic policies implemented at school. If you are in too good of a mood sometime stop by the Financial Aid Office and have a nice long appointment to look at a long-range portfo­lio of student loan payments. Twenty or more years of sheer bliss begins a few weeks after graduation. 
This happens at every school. A decent ed­ucation is expensive. We should have more aid, though. I recently went to a Financial Aid meeting for next year's sophomores. Their four-year study concluded that NO students need more scholarships. Hmmmm. 
I took economics in high school (not by choice). Our profound teacher Ronald T. Head told us to prepare for a semester of what economists like to call "the dismal science". You're right, Ron, it's dismal. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
OF INTEREST 
Students Interested in teaching in Japan should North Dining Hall will be closed Saturday. April come talk with Fr. Peter of the Good Shepherd Movement 21. for brunch due to the picnic for the Fisher Hall He-on Monday, April 23 at the CSC from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. gatta. South Dining Hall will be open. 
The SMC Earth Day Festival will be held onThe fourth annual Fisher Hall Regatta will be 
Saturday, April 21, 1 p.m.-4 p.m. in the field south ofheld tomorrow, April 21 at Saint Mary's Lake. A picnic Madeleva Hall (rain site-Regina North Lounge). Join uslunch will be provided by University Food Services. Races for live music, Native American dancing, tree planting,begin at 12:30 sharp. 
and refreshments. 

There will be an informational meeting for all Earth Day 1990 activities include: A run for the those interested in trying out next year for Irish Guard. It Environment will take place Sunday at 9 a.m.; a mass at will be held Tuesday, April 24, on the 2nd floor of LaFor­the Grotto with Father Malloy and Father Himes at 11:30 tune in the Notre Dame room at 5 p.m. If you have any a.m.; an Earth Day Fair that will be taking place from questions call Craig at 283-4075. noon-7 p.m. on the Field House mall; a legislative writing 
session will be held by the EAC in the CSC today from 
Amnesty International and the Overseas 1:30-3:30p.m.; and a tree planting ceremony will be held Development Network present Rock for Justice, 4 p.m. Saturday, and participants should meet at 1 p.m. at the Friday, April 20. Campus bands Smoke Taxi, Talisman, esc. The Boathouse Blues Band will be featured. 
Yearbooks will be distributed at Theodore's from 11 a.m.-5 p.m. on Friday and Saturday. J.D. is required. 
WORLD More than 30,000 people in the Australian out-Divers on thursday found 20 bodies in the wreck-back city of Brisbane have been isolated by near-record age of a twin-engine plane that crashed in the Pacific floods, police said Friday. Farming districts in central after takeoff from the resort island of Contadora, and southern Queensland state were hardest hit by rising Panama's civil aviation director said. Four Americans, in-flood waters that followed three weeks of heavy rain. eluding two residents of Washington state, were among Meteorologists said the flooding was the worst in the the victims of Wednesday's crash of an Aeroperlas Twin area for 40 years. Most of the normally dusty roads in the Otter carrying 22 people bound for Panama City. Only a region were awash, forcing animals to high ground and 14-year-old French boy and a Swiss woman survived the many families from their homes. crash. The wreckage was discovered in 90 feet of water about a mile off the island, said the Panamanian aviation official, Jamie Fabrega. 
NATIONAL 

Production of a new Colt semiautomatic rifle Senate Republicans said on Thursday they prompted Sen. Howard Metzenbaum to urge President would write their own campaign finance reform bill to re­Bush on Thursday to support legislation banning domes-duce the ability of labor unions and other groups to spend tically produced assault-style weapons. Colt money on political activities, including voter registration. Manufacturing Co. this month began producing a rifle Republicans, however, were divided on how far to go be­called the "Sporter," which is just now arriving in stores. yond Democrats in restricting how much money candi­The company is the successor to the Colt Firearms dates can take from labor, corporate and trade associa­Division of Colt Industries lnc.The gun will replace the tion political action committees that rely on voluntary AR-15 assault-style rifle which Colt Industries stopped contributions. "There was no resolution," Sen. John producing for the civilian market in March 1989, a day Danforth of Missouri said upon emerging from an hour­after the Bush administration temporarily banned im-long meeting among more than half of the Senate's 45 ports of similar weapons. The import ban was made per-Republicans in GOP Leader Bob Dole's office. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Friday'sStaff  (219)-239-7471  
News  Production  
Sandra Wiegand  Beth Peterson  
Mike Owen  Arnell Gallanosa  
Accent  Sports Frank Pastor  Viewpoint  
Colleen Cronin  Barb Moran  Becky Pichler  
Paul Pearson  Mike Kamradt  Lisa Eaton  
Brian Grunert  Chris Cooney  Systems  
Ad Design  Cesar Capella  
Amy Eckert  Deirdre Bell  
Kelly McHugh  
Cara Eckman  Ciculatlon  
Kerry Clair  Bill O'Rourke  
Tony Pagarelli  Matt Novak  

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, April 20. Lines show high temperatures. 
60 
FRONTS: 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © ~ ~ m ~ 0 K 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via ASS<Jciated Press GraphicsNet 
Yesterday's High: 59 
Yesterday's Low: 36 
Nation's High: 91 
(Borrego Springs, Calif.) Nation's Low: 17 (Concord, NH) 
Forecast: Cloudy and mild today with a 60 percent chance of rain. Highs will be in the middle 60's. Cloudy and cooler Friday night with a 50 percent chance of rain. Lows will be in the middle 40's. Saturday will be cloudy with a 30 percent chance of rain and a high of 60. 

manent last July. 
MARKET UPDATE Closings tor April 19. 1990 
INDIANA 
Volume in shares 
152.93 Million

City officials are eager to snare an Amtrak passenger train route through Evansville, but the proposal's biggest booster may be a 15­year-old train buff who has launched his own campaign for the service. In recognition of his en­{7 1.36 thusiasm, Chris Ellison was named an honorary 
S&P Composite

member of the local Amtrak Task Force 
338.09 {7 2.63 

Thursday. Since he was 5, Ellison has been fasci­
Dow Jones Industrials 

nated by railroads, especially Amtrak. The high 
2,711.94 {720.94

school freshman was delighted by the recent an­
nouncement that Amtrak would send a test train Precious Metals 
through Evansville to consider a route from 
Gold {t $1.20 to $377.301 oz. 

Chicago to Florida. 
Silver{! .3¢ to $5.0781 oz. 
Source: AP 


ALMANAC

--·--·------­
On April20: e In 1902: Scientists Marie and Pierre Curie isolated the ra­dioactive element radium. In 1836: The territory of Wis­consin was established by Congress. e In 1971: The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the use of busing to achieve racial desegregation in schools. e In 1972: The manned lunar module of Apollo 16 landed on the moon. e In 1983: President Reagan signed a $165 billion Social Se­curity rescue plan designed to prevent bankruptcy of the trust fund for the elderly. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
--------------~---­
~------------------.-----------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, April 20, 1990 
The Observer 

Abortion debate is over, professor says 
By L. PETER YOB focus is "increased political and Preceding Potts was a video 
News Writer local activity." titled "Champions for Life" and lie said that this year there a speech by Chris Godfrey, a The deba1P on abortion is were attempts to pass a ban on member of the 1986 New York over and the pro-life movement sex-selected abortions, but that Giants Superbowl 
won years ago. the legislation failed to be Championship Team. That is the view of Valparaiso passed. There was a failed at­A symbolic graveyard was set 
Law Professor John Potts. To tempt to pass an informed eon­up near the LaFortune Student support his contontion, Potts sent law in Indiana. Center, made up of 100 small cites Webster's Collegiate Potts also discussed local white crosses. Each cross rep­Dictionary. The dietionary de-pro-life activities in Northern resented 16,000 abortions con­lines child as, "an unborn or Indiana. ducted in the U.S. each year, recently born person." lie said that in Valparaiso, according to Maria Rhomberg, 
Potts said that "the denial of there are already seven buses one of the organizers of the the fact that unborn are human going to the April 28 rally in day. beings has the intellectual sta-Washington. Professor Potts tus of contending that the appealed to students to go to "The speakers were excel-Earth is flat." thn rally, and said that if any lent," said Rhomberg, adding 
I lis comments camn yesterday ND students are interested in that she was disappointed with as part of Pro-Life Day at attending, they should contact the turnout. She said that the Notre Dame. Ev1mts and speak-him through the Valparaiso low turnout was due to "a lot ers wore sponsored by ND/SMC Law School. of factors," noting the time of Hight to Life. "In a non-musical sense, this year, the fact that people may 
Potts focused on two issues is our Woodstock," he said, not have known about the as he discussnd the future of predicting that at least 200,000 speakers and apathy as possi­the pro-life movement, local ac-would attend and it could be ble reasons. tivity and an upeoming pro-life the largest rally ever. She said that she hopes that The Observer/Matt Mittino rally in Washington, D.C. Potts gave the last talk in a ND/SMC Right to Life takes a Law Professor John Potts of Valparaiso University is shown here dur-
One area in which he believes day of pro-life speeches and ac-more activist role next year on ing his Pro-life speech yesterday. Potts stated that the abortion de­the pro-life movement should tivities at ND. campus and in the community. bate is now over with the Pro-Life side coming out the winners. 
NO administration expresses optimism about recycling program
By FRANK RIVERA $11,268, but should even out by Lyphout, have not been imple-There has been no major News Writer next year. mented to a great extent on problem with the recycling pro­"The routine operating costs campus. cess thus far, said Lyphout. 
Despite operating at a loss, are going to be a lot less, obvi-"We've tried the most obvious "I have had a couple of com-the Notre Dame administration ously, than the starting costs," things, and as we become more plaints from rectors who don't has expressed optimism in the said Lyphout. "When that hap-familiar with what it takes, like the boxes in the residence recyeling process at the pens, the revenues will start to = we'll become a little more so-halls. They think they are University in the following outpace the costs." "There's been no money re-phisticated in our efforts," said unattractive and a nuisance; years. Lyphout said the recycling is ceived because we have been Lyphout. however, they've all cooperated. 
"The costs have been higher being handled by Superior buying our boxes and liners The recycling of newspapers, There's been no real problem, " than what we have been paid Waste Systems of South Bend, from Superior Waste according to Lyphout, is being said Lyphout. for the recycled items," said in conjunction with the (Systems), so we're just having done for ecological purposes Lyphout expressed confidence .James Lyphout, assistant vice University and student groups. them credit our expenses with rather than for the sake of fi-in the progress of the program president for Business Affairs, Janitors carry out the materials the revenue. So there's no nancial gain resulting in the in its inaugural year. "And that's because, as with to be picked up by a University money changing hands yet," process. any pr~1gr~.m. the starting costs maintenance truck which, in said Lyphout. "Unfortunately right now, "I think, all things considered, were high. turn, deposits them in a "As a matter of fact," said there is no financial value for it has been fairly successful," 
According to Lyphout, rev­centrally located dumpster. Lyphout, " we still owe them the newspapers," said Lyphout. said Lyphout. "With the same enues from the period of Superior Waste Systems then about $2,000, but by the end of "As a matter of fact, some re-kind of cooperation next year, I October 1989 to February 1990 picks up the container for pro-the year, we should be even." cyclers are charging to pick up think we'll have a good w1~re $7,677 while the costs for cessing and credits the The newspaper and glass re-the papers. There is just no program that might even turn a the same period have been University with the poundage. cycling processes, according to market for them." little bit of profit." 

•• ••  •  SPRING SEMESTER 1989/90 FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY MAY7 MAYS MAY9 MAY 10 MAY 11 10:10 MWF 11:00 MW-75 min 8:00 MWF 1:15 MW-75 min 9:30 MW-75 min 8:00a.m. 10:10 M 11:15 MWF 8:00 M 1:15 M 9:30 MWF to 10:10 w 11:15 M 8:00 w 1:15 w 9:30 M 10:00 a.m. 10:10 F 11:15 w 8:00 F 1:15 F 9:30 w PHIL 101 11:15 F LLRO 100 level COTH 100 level 9:30 F ROFR 201 FIN 361 ANTH 109 ROSP 201 ECON 115 soc 102, 122 2:20 TU 1:15 TT-75 min 10:10 TU 9:30 TT-75 min 4:15 TT 10:30 a.m. 2:20 TH 1:15 TU 10:10 TH 9:30 TU 4:30 TU to 2:45 TT-75 min 1:15 TH 11 :OOTT-75 min 9:30 TH 4:30TH 12:30 p.m. 3:25 TU BIOS 344 11:15TU HIST 100 level 3:25 TH 11:15TH MGT 240 THEO 100 level ACCT 372 MATH 100 level ACCT 232 BIOS 102 ARCH 251 ENGL 109 BA 230 AERO/ME 334 CHEM 102,116,126 CHEG 358 FIN 231 EE 361 BIOS 104,196,202 CHEM 118,196 EE 381 FS 180 CHEG/ME 327 EASC 142 MARK 231 EG 120 1:45 p.m. HUM 186 ECON 123,125 MSE 225 FIN 360 to PHYS 222 ~ EE 354 PHYS 104,110,112, 174 ME 437 3:45p.m. MATH 323 MODL 100 level PHYS 127,128,142 ROFR 202, 222F MEICE 236 EDUC 406 SMC. ROSP 202 ME 340 ~ RLST 200 level ~ SMQ. ENLT 100 level BIO 104,152 HIST 102,104,202 ENLT 407 CHEM 232,346 EDUC 302 4:30 MW-75 min .12:15 MWF 5:35 MWF 2:20 MWF 3:25 MWF 4:15p.m. 4:15 MWF 12:15 M 5:35 M 2:20 M 3:25 M to 4:15 M 12:15 w 5:35 w 2:20 w 3:25 w 6:15p.m. 4:15 w 12:15 F 5:35 F 2:20 F 3:25 F 4:15 F ~ 2:45 MW-75 min CHEM 224 SMQ. LLGR 100 level MATH 102,104,114,118 PSY 111 GOVT 151, 152, 217 ACCT 334 FIN 370 ARHI 252 THEO 287 MATH 226 7:30p.m. ME 236L EE 242 SMC. MGT 231 to SMQ. ~ ME 226 HUST 103 9:30p.m. ECON 252 8TT ~ soc 358 GOVT 206 soc 13:01, 03, 04 soc 203 LLRO 100 level =All ROFR, ROSP, ROIT 100 level courses LLGR =All GE & RU 100 level courses. Classical and Oriental Languages and Uteratures 100 level courses =Non-departmental examinations  

page 4 The Observer Friday, April 20, 1990 

MIAMI (AP) Eastern named former airline executive Airlines' striking Machinists, Martin Shugrue as special victorious in their quest to out-trustee of the Miami-based car­last company boss Frank rier. Lorenzo, looked ahead Eastern officials said Thursday to negotiating a Thursday they will not appeal back-to-work pact that could the appointment. They ap­include deep concessions. plauded Lifland's indications 
"There obviously is going to that the airline can be reorga­be tremendous sacrifices over nized rather than liquidated. the next year, maybe two years Lorenzo pledged to help or more, to bring us back to Shugrue assume the helm "in normalcy ... but it's not going all reasonable ways that we to be done in the interest of can." Frank Lorenzo," Eastern Appointment of a trustee had Machinist president Charles been a major goal for striking Bryan told about 100 strikers workers, who contend Lorenzo gathered at union headquarters has funneled valuable Eastern near Miami International assets to the company's non-Airport. union sister carrier, 
Lorenzo, chairman of Continental Airlines. Eastern's parent Texas Air Lifland made the appointment Corp., was ousted from control after Eastern's unsecured of Eastern in New York late creditors. who are owed $980 Wednesday by U.S. Bankruptcy million, argued that present Judge Burton Lifland, who management was unable to 
Ship Home With 
We Ship UPS On Campus 5/5-5/12 Sl 00 Free Insurance LaFortune-Dooley Room Boxes & Tape Avoid the Mall Traffic Phone 277-6245 
$1.00 OFF with this Ad 

Convenient Location Less than a Mile from Campus on S.R. 23 Just Past Ironwood, By the Subway Open Sunday Apri/29 & May 6 
ATTENTION; Grad Students Professors Employees 

•furnished 
and unfurnished suites 

•flexible 
leases 

•washer 
& dryer each apt. *locked intercom entrances 

•spacious 
floor plans w/country kitchens 


lQOCJ Su$"' ~r* Non S>ourh&fontt lrw1""•"' ~ll& 

219. 277. 3731 
bring the company out of its fi­nancial tailspin. 
Eastern spokesman Bob Hunter said the court's decision to release $80 million from Eastern's escrow account will keep the carrier in operation through mid-1990. 
"It's still business as usual," said Hunter. 
But problems remain. Eastern lost $852.3 million last year, and creditors say the company has failed to regain the confidence of consumers and travel agents since the strike. 

Attack 
continued from page 1 
"It's difficult to say. There is no way of telling right now." 
Hurley stated that an occur­rence at Purdue University on April 17 may or may not be re­lated to these attacks. At Purdue, an individual ap­proached female students on campus claiming he was from ''Exquisite Photography." 
Ball 
continued from page ?1 
The Copy Shop, Jordan Motors, Price Waterhouse and Louie's Tux Shop. 

Scheduled events for the evening include music from both The Groove and a local jazz band. Other events include expositional booths from 13 countries which will present unique facts about each culture to those attending the ball. There will also be hors d'oeurvres served which will be 
Hostage 
continued from page 1 
Kelly had been at a diplomatic meeting in West Germany. 
Djerjian held a series of meetings at Syria's Foreign Ministry. He did not speak to reporters. 
Informed sources in Damascus, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed the problem with the hostage-release centered on whether Kelly, the former U.S. ambassador to Lebanon, would go to Damascus. 
"He attempted to get the students names, addresses, and body measurements," Hurley said. He would then try and lure them over to his van and photograph them, according to Hurley. 
Notre Dame Security is con­tinuing its investigation of both cases. A composite sketch of 
the attacker or attackers is be­ing put together with the help of the descriptions given by both victims, according to Hurley. 
representative or each national cuisine. 

Anyone interested may attend the ball. Expected attendance includes students, members of the South Bend community, 1,200 alumni and various members of Friends of the Snite. Tickets will be available at the door, and prices are $1 0 per student couple, $6 per sin­gle student, $20 per adult cou­ple and $12 per single adult. 
The event will begin at 9:30 
p.m. and will run until 1:30 

a.m. Any students interested in volunteering for next year's Charity Ball can contact JoBeth Hayes at 283-4128. 
The kidnappers had said Wednesday that a captive would be freed within 48 hours, or by Friday evening, in response to requests from Iran and Syria. Their leaders have encouraged an end to the hostage crisis. The group implied that some sort of exchange was involved. 
That communique was accompanied by an instant photograph of Jesse Turner of Boise, ·Idaho -the first photo of him alone since three months after his abduction. The group also holds Alann Steen. 
f~o 
·=l'Zenith Data Systems 

I 

~~~ LP's now come with all-terrain mt. bikes 
LP's also come with DOS, Windows/286 and a Microsoft mouse at no extra charge! 
Purchase a Z-286 LP Model 20 or Z-286 LP/12 Model 20 or 40 with any Zenith Data Systems VGA monitor and receive a Raleigh all-terrain 18-speed, ASSAULT mountain bike FREE! 
Just like Raleigh bikes, the Z-286 LP computer is built to take you to the top. And if you already own this bike, we give you an ...ollllllli!!!!~ option of S200 off Z-286 LP and VGA monitor bundles! 
(Retail Value $300) Good thru Jone 30, 1990 

Groupe Bull 

Friday, April 20, 1990 
The Observer page·5 
Toxic chemicals still prominent, EPA says 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The nation's factories released 
4.6 billion pounds of toxic chemieals, including scores of cardnogens. in 1988, the Environmental Protection Agency reported Thursday. More than half of the pollu­tants went into the air, 
The pollution, emitted from 19,762 industrial plants nationwide, was 9 perecnt less than a year ear­lier, but the EPA said the decline may be a result of better record keeping. 
EPA officials cautioned that they are unable from the raw figures, the latest available, to assess the health risks to individuals. Thn data do not take into account levels of toxicity, releasn concentrations and actual exposurn. 
Nnverthnless, federal offi­cials have bPen surprised at the high volume of releases of toxic chemicals in both 1987, when 5 billion pounds of pollution was reported, and 1988. The reporting rn­quirement covers 3:~2 toxic chmnieals. 
"The figurns are absolutely shocking," declared Rnp. Gerry Sikorski, D-Minn .. who along with_ several other members of Congress ob­tained a spneial computer run on the EPA figurns and providP.d additional details about tlw releases. 
Among the chemkals rou­tinely 1~mitted from indus­trial sources were 77 car­cinogens. The most widnly 

released cancer-causing 
chemical-115 million 
pounds-was 
dichloromethane, a chemical 
often used as an industrial 
solvent and paint stripper. 
Industry released a total of 281 million pounds of car­cinogens, including chemi­cals such as arsenic, benzene and vinyl chloride. 
"We've got to bring these poll uti on numbers down," EPA Administrator William Reilly said as he released the latest data. 
Clean-air legislation that already has passed the Sen­ate and is being considered in the House would impose stringent controls on toxic industrial chemicals and re­quire companies to use the best available technology to curb releases. 
Under current law, the EPA is required to deal with each chemical separately. In more than a decade, it has placed controls on only eight of the hundreds of toxic chemicals in use. Many of the chemicals, however, are subject to local and state regulation. 
The releases reported by industry, however, are legal and within federal stan­dards, officials said. 
Chemical and allied indus­trins accounted for about half of the total releases. Two statP.s with a concentra­tion of petrochemical plants-Louisiana and Texas-aecounted for more than one-fourth of the totals. 
We Also Sell Boxes & Packing Materials 
Earth Day is 'big event' this year 
By CLAIRE ROBINSON News Writer 
Notre Dame will be holding a series of events this Sunday to observe the twentieth anniver­sary of National Earth Day. 
The day begins at 9 a.m. with a five kilometer run through campus, the "Nature Streak," according to Michael Garvey, assistant director of the de­partment of Public Relations and Information. Students may register in the dining halls. 
Later a mass will take place at the Grotto at 11:30 a.m. Father Edward Malloy and Father Michael Himes will pre­side. Afterwards there will be a tree planting ceremony, at 
12:30 p.m. 
From noon until 7:30 p.m. there will be an Earth Day Fair on the Fieldhouse Mall. The fair will feature campus bands, re­freshments and information on the environment. The afternoon will also include activities to heighten awareness of envi­ronmental issues, such as an Earth Day obstacle eourse, a Styrofoam sculpture building contest and a toxins scavenger hunt. 


James Dailey, president of the Environmental Action Club, said that the goal of the day is "to make students more aware of environmental issues and what they can do individually to alleviate the (problems concerning the environment)." The theme of the day is, "Who Says You Can't Save the World?" 
Dailey said that his group participated in the South Bend Earth Day celebration last year, and wanted to hold some­thing at Notre Dame. "There has been a big push because it is Earth Day's twentieth an­niversary. It has grown into a big event since last year, which we didn't know would happen," he said. 
The events will be held in conjunction with the St. Edward's Hall Charity Carnival. The money raised will be di­rected towards environmentally related causes. For example, 
Dailey said that somn money might go the the Catholic Relief Services, or to the American Heart Association, and a re­quest has been made to put the 

money  towards  the  environ­ 
mental  aspects  of their  pro­ 
grams.  

Other universities will be holding special events as well, said Dailey. The University of Arizona will be having an "eco fair," a sunset concert, powered by solar panels. Stanford University is holding an "environmental fast," trying to use as little water and energy as possible. Students at Princeton University plan to hold a "trash in," during which they will gather trash and dump it on the steps of Memorial Chapel. 

Dailey expects a thousautl students to participate in the Fieldhouse Mall events. Petitions will be circulated at the mall addressing both na­tional and local environmental concerns. One petition will ask the government to ban chlo­rollourocarbons; another will ask the University to "adopt more . sound environmental policies," according to Dailey. 
Malloy named to nationwide 'Points of Light' group, promoting social service 
composed of a eross-section of 
leaders from business, P.duca­
tiona( and volunteer organiza­
lions each having previous ex­
perience with promoting ser­
vice. It includes the presidP.nts 
and chief executivP. officers of 
IBM, Coca-Cola, Walt DisnP.y, 
and NBC, and snvP.ral other in­
dividuals involved in education 
and service organizations. 
"The main reason I aecnpted the position was becausP. it is basP.d on the notion that one of the great resources of the country is the citizen groups which have formnd sponta­neously to respond to onn kind of issue or anothnr," said Malloy. 
The agenda of the Points of Light Initiative includes: con­vincing all businesses, groups and organizations to implement community service programs in which every member is urged to participate, developing "Points of Light Action Groups" to dP.­tcrmine pressing community problems and to mobilize local resources to solve them, pro­moting an organization called Youth Engaged in Service to America, and exploring the fea­sibility of one-to-one mentoring relationships with people in neP.d. 
"When I went to the first meeting I discovered that we were going to be the umbrella which was going to try to spawn various kinds of efforts in service." said Malloy. 
The next task of the group involves expanding the founda­tion board and beginning to subdivide the tasks and make some decision on how to pro­ceed. 
"All the people who are on the board are inclined to want to see things happen tomorrow. One of the reasons that this is a private foundation and not a government one is to give us the freedom to get started more quickly," added Malloy . 
Unitedway
• 
By John Cronin News Writer 

Father Edward Malloy has been selected as a founding di­rector of a nationwide organi­zation designed to promote community service. 
The Points of Light Initiative, an organization inspired by President Bush's campaign theme, selected Malloy becausf~ of Notre Dame's reputation for weaving community service into its educational system. 
Malloy and the twelve other directors met at the White House for lunch with the President and First Lady on March 30 to initiate the pro­gram. The private non-profit. non-partisan organization is 
-----~-------------------~ 
page 6 
Norway will sell oil to Lithuania if necessary 
OSLO, Norway (AP) -refusing to scrap pro-indepen­Norway said Thursday that dence laws. Lithuania is free to buy its oil, "We were expecting this," but it urged Moscow to lift an Mrs. Prunskiene said when told energy embargo against the by reporters of the cutback on Baltic republic before outside natural gas. "We believe supplies are needed. Lithuania will survive without 
A Lithuanian delegation led natural gas, but life will be re­by Prime Minister Kazimiera duced, cut off from normal Prunskiene sought support possibilities." from Norwegian leaders, but Norway pumps 1.5 million there were no immediate con-barrels a day from North Sea tracts or offers of government fields, making it the second­aid, said Foreign Minister Kjell largest exporter outside the Magne Bondevik. OPEC oil cartel. It also exports 
"Norway has not used, and natural gas, but it has no way will not use, oil as a foreign to deliver it to Lithuania. policy tool," Bondevik said, Bondevik said he summoned adding that it was up to the oil Soviet Ambassador Alexandre companies to decide whether to Teterine to express Norway's sell to Lithuania. opposition to the use of eco­
nomic pressure to thwart 

The Oslo trip, planned weeks Lithuania's independence drive. ago, coincided with the decision He said Norway favored flex­by Soviet President Mikhail ibility by both Moscow and Gorbachev to close the tap of Lithuania and urged negotia­crude oil and restrict natural tions without pressure or pre­gas supplies to Lithuania for conditions, before the conflict 
USSR shuts off most of Baltic gas 
VILNIUS, U.S.S.R. (AP) ­The Kremlin tightened its eco­nomic squeeze Thursday on Lithuania by shutting off more than 80 percent of the Baltic republic's gas supply following a complete cutoff of oil the pre­vious night. 
The independence-minded re­public promptly ordered that 

AP 
the first to lose their energy supplies will be Soviet military bases and factories run by Moscow, according to the par­liament's press office. 
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev started his most drastic attempt to force Lithuania to retreat from its March 11 declaration of inde­pendence late Wednesday when a pipeline to Lithuania's only oil refinery was shut off. 
Lithuanian Energy Minister Leonas Asmantas ordered im­mediate gasoline rationing of 30 liters per month for private cars, according to Daina Kalendra of the parliamentary press office. A liter is slightly more than one quart. 
"Where we can give up the use of gas, gasoline, any heat­ing or lighting, let us do this, and then we will be able to sur­vive longer and, maybe, we will not be intimidated by these sanctions," government spokesman Ceslovas Jursenas said on Lithuanian radio. 
He said that in the areas of fuel and power, Lithuanians would be put on "a starvation diet." 
Lithuania, forcibly incorpo­rated into the Soviet Union in 1940, is entirely dependent on Moscow for its oil and gas, which it receives at below-mar­ket prices. 

The 
MUSLIM STUDENTS' ASSOCIATION PRESENTS "THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN 
CHRISTIANI1Y AND ISLAM" 
ALECTUREBYANWARZAlliAL 
FRIDAY, APRIL 20 
4:45 
MONTGOMERY THEATER (LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER) 

Lithuanians seek alternative oil supply AP Proto 
Lithuania~ Prime Minist~r Kazimiera Prunskiene, left, shakes hands with Norwegian Prime Minister Jan Syse at a meetmg Thursday 1n Oslo. The Lithuanian delegation is seeking alternative supplies of oil after energy supplies were cut by the Soviet Union Wednesday. 
Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Vadim Perfiliev told reporters Thursday that Moscow "might have some other restrictions" to impose on Lithuania, but he refused to elaborate. 
In Key Largo, Fla., President Bush and visiting French President Francois Mitterrand said they were both "deeply disturbed" by the Kremlin's re­cent steps regarding Lithuania. Bush told reporters he was "considering appropriate mea­sures to be taken in light of Soviet actions." 
Asmantas said the 96 facto­ries in Lithuanian run by Moscow ministries and Soviet military bases would be the first to feel the pinch of short supplies. He said hospitals would be last, Kalendra re­


_f''_lotre 01"1~-~o~uJIIatlon and Theatre 
.-----~~--~~------~ 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
06f!HRifjjj 

-, ......'VR:w_............................A 
[Ji "ll\: AUNIVIRSA! RIUASI 
~. 111-"t\111-•11-.!. 
TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:30,9:45­
The Crime of the Week is the Nouember 30, 1989, burglary at LaFortune Student Center. 1nuestigators learned that during the course of that early morning burglary, the offender/s took no money, but did more than $7,000.00 in damages to the building. 
lnuestigators are pursuing some lead 
information  in  this  case,  but  need  further  
information  from  you  in  order  to  solue  this  
crime.  

1f you haue any information about this or any other crime at Notre Dame, please call Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP. You won't haue to giue your name, and you'll be eligible for a cash reward. 


sai<i, ''I've studied it. I night in Notre Dame's Law
.....-----------__;=;;;;.;:...-------:...._-.:.........., School Courtroom.
.: . . 
•  .  lie  is  touring  the  United  
•­-_11_!!!!!!1!!!! • 111111.111111  States to speak about the Catholic Church's involvement in the social affairs of Latin  
America, according to Michael  
COLLEG~,  Garvey of Notre Dame's Department of Public Relations and Information.  
GRADUATE  Bishop Cipriani's lecture was sponsored by the Graduate  
FINANCE  Student Union Intellectual Life  

Friday, April 20, 1990 
EPA rejects pesticide petition 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The Environmental Protection Agency on Thursday rejected a p11tition from environmentalists asking that any pesticide that poses even a slight cancer risk be prohibited for use on pro­eesscd foods. 
The EPA affirmed its inten­tion not to usc the "zero-toler­ancp," standard in eases where the cancer risk is considered negligible. Several suits are JWIHiing before various federal courts challenging the EPA po­sition. 
Under a provision of the fed­eral pesticide laws, a cancer­causing pesticide must be pro­hihitfld for use on processed food products if oven the slightest residuo levels are found. The "zero tolerance" standard is r:tllnd the Delaney Clause after thP congressman who pushed f(Jr its enactment. 
The EP.\ in 1988 concluded that bncause of modern tech­niques that can discern even nxcnedingly small amounts of pesticide rnsidue, it would not invokn the Delaney Clause in cas11s whern residue lnvels were "nngligible." 
That prompted several envi­ronmental groups, including the Natural Hosourees Defense Council, to file a potition chal­lenging the EPA policy. 
The Observer 
The Observer/Matt Mittino 

Abortion debate continues 
Pro-Life speaker Anne Mulvaney is shown here during a speech she gave yesterday at the Fieldhouse Mall on North Quad. Mulvaney was participating in Notre Dame's Pro-Life day spon­sored by the ND/SMC Right to Life Committee. 
page 7 

Bishop offers insight on Peruvian economic trials 
ByJOEMOODY 
Assistant News Editor 
Having lived in the economi­cally and politically ravaged country of Peru, Bishop Juan Cipriani's lecture last night of­fered insights and perceptions, from the Church's point of view, on the state of this im­poverished area in Latin America. 
"The economic situation in Ayacucho (Peru) is horrible," said Cipriani, pointing out that the illiteracy rate there is close to 50 percent and the average salary is a meager $20 per month. 
The Catholic Church, as far as day to day life, is taking care of almost 50,000 families in Ayacucho. "It is in an emer­gency situation." But the cur­rent aid is not the solution, but a bridge to the solution, said Cipriani. 
The Church is caught between the violence of the terrorist guerrilla group known as 'The Shining Path," the corruption of the state, and drug dealers. "I try not to have contact with the army or with the terrorists. But I try to let the people know that I stand for them," Cipriani noted. For fear of his own safety, Cipriani said, "I am in the hands of God. I have lots of peace." 
On the controversial subject of Liberation Theology, Cipriani it. I've met with many of its in­fluential authors." lie said that though Liberation Theology has awakened many people up to the social problems of Latin America, and they definitely see the problems facing the coun­try, they, however, do not have the means to actually solve the problems." 
Liberation Theology has dis­qualified the social doctrines of the Church, said Cipriani, "And I for one could say that there is no institution in the world that has Jone more socially than the Catholic Church." 
As for the internal situation, Cipriani expressed that he has grown weary of the "revolutionary movements" that spring up in Latin America, saying that they are short-lived and offer no per­manent solution. 
Cipriani offered hopes that an "International System" could be developed that could aid in stopping the financial wrong­doings and exuberant debts ex­istent in Latin Amerka. 
Cipriani pointed out that many bishops or priests would not want to go to Ayacucho, but that in the Catholic Church we must obey the Pope, "so I went." 
Cipriani is the auxiliary bishop pf Ayacuchu, Peru. His lecture, titled "The Catholic Church and Soeial Change in Latin America" was given last 

PLAN 
YOU DESERVE SOME.CREDIT. 
YOU'VE EARNED IT. 

10:00 AM 3 & 6 MILE RUNS 
NEW DIVISIONS 
UNDERGRADUATE 22-35 36-45 46-55 56 ANDOVER 
$4 IN ADVANCE $5DAYOF NEATT-SHIRTS 
WEARGREENANDGETABUCKBACK 
Committee and the Center for Social Concerns. 
Jordan's Auto Mall 
American 
Red Cross 

~ Chintse-Amerlc.~n 
Rtstaurent & ~~ ~J-J • Coektall loun&t
i\.t..t
\Yh .J... 

Lunches starting at_____ Dinners starting at_____ 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon.-Thurs. 11.30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 11:30 a.m. to 11p.m . Sun. & Holidays 11:30 a.m.to 10 p.m. Way S., South Bend (next to Randall's lnnl 
Summer 
TORAG 
RESERVATION 
CALL NOWI 683-19591 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS •APPROX 2V2 MILES NORTH lJS31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 


a e 8 The Observer Friday, April 20, 1990 
NATO summit on changing Europe possible this year 
KEY LARGO, Fla. (AP) ­French President Francois Mitterrand on Thursday pro­posed to President George Bush that the 16 NATO allies hold a summit before year's end to discuss the changing face of Europe. 
Mitterrand, emerging from several hours of talks with Bush at a seaside resort, said Bush agreed with the idea. 
The summit would discuss the "requirements of the new times ahead," Mitterrand said. 
But although both men stressed the importance of maintaining c.ohesion within NATO and maintaining U.S. troops in Europe, Mitterrand appeared to place more empha­sis on European self-reliance. 
NATO must coordinate more closely "with the other bodies 
SECURITY BEAT time between 6:00 and 7:30 p.m. His 
loss is estimated to be $700.00. TUESDAY, APRIL 17 9:15 p.m. An employee of the 6p.m. A faculty member at the University reported that for two succes­
University reported that someone had sive nights, air has been let out of the 
entered his locked oHice over Easter tires of the Educational Media vans. 
Break and removed some audio cas­10:47 p.m. A visitor to the University settes and soda. reported that someone had stolen his radar detector while his vehicle was WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18 parked in the B-1 lot. In addition. the 
10:20 a.m. A resident of O'Hara-Grace passenger side window was broken in Townhouses reported that her locked order to gain access to the vehicle. The bicycle was stolen from outside her victim's total loss is estimated at 
apartment sometime between 4/16 and $500.00. 4/18. 
3:07 p.m. Notre Dame Police were THURSDAY, APRIL 19 called to the scene of a two car accident 2:12 a.m. Notre Dame Security was in the D-6 parking lot. No injuries were called to Fitzpatrick Hall on a report of reported and damages were minimaL vandalism to University 
7:35 p.m. A South Bend resident re­Unknown subject(s} ported the theft of his locked bicycle from the 
front of O'Shau hness Hall some-ing. 
EUROPE! 
WITH SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 
Seven Seas Travel, your local European travel experts, can help you with 
any travel plans you may need to experience Europe this Spring and Sum­
mer. We know Europe well ... and can help you with your travel plans. 
regardless of your travel budget.

___;_______ 
EUROPE! 

with Seven Seas Travel Seven Seas Travel Is Your Local Europe Travel Specialist 
*Lowest Airfares To Europe 
*Eurail Passes 

*Assistance With Tour Planning 
For Your Trip To Europe: 
SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 
525 North Michi an St. South Bend IN 46601 
Door .... llld 014, 
lbote'l -...... l'w -........ Ia loll you. I'm tellinl you dolo llocuM I'"-J*l.­vuy IDUCil llld WIDI 10 ._ lhll ..f/1 II)' wldl 
I'm W· 
I 111e11 you may bo ollocUd • ......... MJb1 aniJ')' or ccmfuaed. I •• you • -.., tb8t JOII .,. in no way to bl-for tlolr.. Ia fool, ~ lr. no blame to place •• I'm DOl ..um.d or ..,.,_ ruacd about boin& I'Y. It ioa't .-Iola1 IIIII wu cauacd by bad puentiq, aor wu I ..._.. w ~ruitcd or molctto4. lt'l not IMl I cu't ftDd girla that like me, or anythin1 like tloal. llciAtiou and aociolo1i.Jta don't exactly know wky I'm I•Y· but tbcy almoat all apee thai it ila't a cMiol I 
• 
made, thai I juot am aad ao amoua1 ol -.,. • ~I wUl ._ tlw. 
You may be wondcrinJ why I don't .... py, wky I don't fit the picma you bavo of P1 pooplo• 
You'ro probably ~. "I doa't •• ..,. -1e bo<o1110 W.. 'tloou (H.,M.'" Yoe IIIJI ....... lmow thar the ate.reoryp. IMI you ha" ..._ _.. 
ditioned to 1<copt -· ..,. poop1o .-py ._,, hold n~~atly aU J&J ...... an ia&d pt&·bh
n 

from straiahu. We doa'1 a.W., we ..., lllp, w 
don't WUII to WC&r ....... ll'a .... -.... 
ICIII fi ahrmJI W&l, ...... ,_ ,........... 
and been ~ of ......... _, ,..... 
: nope !hal ~llin& you t1a1t -•• .. -t-.....­er. I love you bolh _. ..q roid ,.. tWo boe­
1 hoped l'ft '""ld •• II 61o WIIJ'. 
within which the allies find themselves together in Europe," including the 12-na­tion European Economic Community and the 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the French president said. 
''And I would add a very im­portant additional note on this, to prepare the Europeans for the idea of playing an increased role in working for their own defense," said Mitterand. 
"And with that in mind, I suggested to President Bush, and he agreed, that we propose to our allies to hold a summit of the alliance before the end of the year," he said. 
Mitterand said Europeans should also speed up their eco­nomic and political union. 
Half the decade's drug goals met 
Cocaine use rising among adolescents 
ATLANTA (AP) -Nearly half of the U.S. government's decade-long goals for drug and alcohol abuse have been met, but others haven't been reached because of the spread of cocaine use, fed­eral health researchers said Thursday. 
Goals set in 1980 for curb­ing drunken-driving deaths, alcohol consumption and cirrhosis within the decade have been met, the national Centers for Disease Control reported Thursday. 
But goals set for teen-age and young adult abstinence from drugs and booze have been met only in part, as co­caine use has increased dra­matically, the CDC said. 
"The percentage of per­sons using cocaine at least once a week has increased from 5.3 percent in 1985 to 
10.5 percent in 1988," the Atlanta-based agency re­ported. 
"Increased use of cocaine among adolescents is of particular concern," the CDC said, noting that previously published studies say people who are younger when they first try drugs or alcohol have more substance abuse 

NOW OPEN TO ALL JUNIORS AND SENIORS 
>>> BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS <<< 
FALL SEMESTER, 1990 1 CREDIT HOUR COURSE MEETS THURSDAY ONLY 9:30, 11:00, 1:15 SECTIONS FOCUS: WRITING SKILLS 
SPEAKING SKILLS 
INTERPERSONAL SKILLS 
NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION 
SEE PROF. WILLIAMSON IN ROOM 131 HAYES-HEALY FOR MORE INFORMATION AND/OR FOR REGISTRATION 
problems as adults. 
However, the CDC said, "Since 1980, substantial progress has been made to­ward increasing public knowledge and awareness of the adverse social and health consequences associated with the misuse of alcohol and drugs. Risk perception has generally increased." 
The goals for the end of 1990 were outlined in a 1980 report from the U.S. De­partment of Health and Hu­man Services. Of eight major goals for curbing drug and alcohol abuse, the CDC said, three have been met, one is likely to be met and four have been met only in part. 
Already achieved, accord­ing to the what the CDC sain was most recent data avail­able: 
•Fatalities 
from all alco­hol-related car crashes should be less than 9.5 per 100,000 population per year. That level was reached in 1988, after years of decline. 

•Cirrhosis 
deaths should be less than 12 per 100,000 per year. The rate fell from 


13.5 in 1978 to less than 10 by 1986. 
•Per 
capita consump­tion of alcohol should not exceed the 1978 level of 2. 7 gallons. By 1987, it stood at less than 2.6 gallons, the lowest level since 1958. 

Probable: 

• 
More than nine in 1 0 women should be aware of the risks of pregnancy and drinking, specifically fetal alcohol syndrome. Such awareness, measured at 73 percent in a 1979 poll, had risen to 88 percent by 1985. 


Achieved only in part: 
•Adolescents ages 12-17 abstaining from alcohol or drugs should exceed 1977 levels. Alcohol abstinence rose from 69 percent in 1977 to 75 percent in 1988, and marijuana abstinence rose from 83 percent to 94 per­cent. But cocaine abstinence fell 0.3 percent, from 99.2 percent of adolescents to 
98.9 percent. 
•Young adults 18-25 re­porting frequent drug use ­five days a month -should not exceed 1977 levels. Fre­quent use of marijuana in this group declined from 19 percent in 1977 to 7 percent in 1988, but frequent use of other dru~s rose 
~-················ 

Viewpoint 
Friday, April 20, 1990 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
page 9 


EDITORIAL 
Dorms deserve option of two spring SVRs 
On Wednesday, the Campus Life Council voted on rec­
ommendations suggested by the Student Government 
Committee's report on All-Hall Semi-Formals. At the 
meeting a recommendation concerning two semi-for­
mals in the spring, if the halls can acquire the neces­
sary attendance, was denied. This decision needs to be 
re-evaluated. 
Though students, faculty and administrators on the 
Council said that semi-formals are positive aspects of 
students' social lives and opportunities for men and 
women to interact, members of the Administration and 
staff spoke against the idea of two semi-formals in the 
spring. They said that an additional semi-formal would 
suggest that semi-formals are the only opportunities 
for male/female interaction. 
Jlowever, in the report, students showed great inter­est in increasing the number of semi-formals. Ninety­five percent of the students surveyed by the committee said that semi-formals were opportunities for positive interaction with the opposite sex and members of the hall and 80 percent stated that they would attend addi­tional semi-formals. Furthermore, many students felt that the semi-formals serve a very important social function and also aids in dating-. 
Therefore, if the students desire more semi-formals, they should be granted the opportunity. If the halls have the adequate funds and the student support, there should be no reason why they cannot have more semi­formals. In addition, since the semi-formals are seen as positive interaction between men and women, addi­ticmal semi-formals would give the men and women more opportunities to break down the barriers. 
"The rnal issue is how to be more creative," as Father Michael Sullivan, rector of Carroll, said. His words serve as a challenge to student leaders in Student Government, Student Union Board, Student Senate and flail government, to find ways for males and females to interact on campus. 
Student leaders cannot let the issues brought up in this report die. II' dorms have the support for two semi­formals in the spring, they should be able to hold the dances. Finally, students, faculty, staff and administra­tors need to make a commitment to improving male and female relations before students are completely driven ofT campus in search of a decent social life. 
LETTERS 

Environmental leaders may mislead followers 

Dear Editor: 
Over the past few weeks, our campus has been bombarded with Earth Day supporters at the dining halls and in the li­brary concourse. I was pretty curious at first and wondered exactly what "Earth Day" was all about. I headed over to the library and did a little bit of investigating. I hope all of you out there who are signing
,lii§JIII pledges and making donations 
read what I discovered. t:mf:RtJ:UI("Paul Ehrlich, a director of 
---.~~..a..-----~IIWIUIIIU 
Omitted words change intent of abortion letter 
Dear Editor: 

I appreciate the printing of my article "Pro-choicers Caricature of Pro-lifers Is Misleading." (The Observer, April 17) However, in the middle column, second full paragraph, the sentence should have read, "...if the imposition of moral decisions is what de­values women ... and pro-lifers don't impose them, then pro­lifers don't devalue women" ­not "pro-lifers impose them." The latter reading with the omission of "don't" seriously distorts my claim. 
Mark Webb Graduate Student Department ofPhilosophy April 17, 1990 

Earth Day 1990 who is consid­ered an "authority" on envi­ronmental issues, predicted that by 1979 all important an­imal life in the sea would be extinct and by 1984 the U.S. would literally be "dying of thirst." Ehrlich also proposed 
controlling the population through mandatory measures if necessary, "Abortion is a highly effective method in the armory of population control...Many of my colleagues feel that some sort of compulsory birth regu­lation would be necessary to achieve control." One plan often mentioned involves the addition of temporary sterilants to water supplies or staple food. Doses of the antidote would be carefully rationed by the government to produce the desired population size. 
One of the past issues of "The Environmental Handbook" stated, "...at least 10 percent of the defense budget must be allocated to birth control and abortion in the United States and abroad." 
In 1989 Ehrlich approved of a plan to raise the price of gaso­line to at least $2.30 per gallon to limit its consumption. 
Furthermore, "Handbook" contributor Keith Lampe statl~d. "Competition (capitalism) must be phased out and replaced with cooperative economic models." 
Lynn White, another Earth Day activist and "Handbook" contributor, even goes so far as to attack Christianity, "More science and more technology are not going to get us out of the present ecologic crisis until we find a new religion. or re­think our old one... we shall continue to have a worsening ecologic crisis until we reject the Christian axiom that nature has no reason for existence save to serve man." 
Gaylord Nelson claimed on a former Earth Day. "Man is just one of the creatures that the Lord put on this earth and is not more important than all the rest." 
I could go on and on with my findings. The point is most of u·s are being misled and are not fully aware of what supporting Earth Day really means. By supporting Earth Day. you are supporting its leaders and ac­tivists who advocate extremist means for population control. compulsory "conservation," measures that infringe upon our constitutional rights and worldwide control of the envi­ronment through worldwide control of the people. Now, isn't this going just a little bit too far? Before you make a pledge and wear one of those cute little Earth Day pins, think about it. 
M. Loretta Murray 
Badin 1/all April 9, 1990 

DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The universe never did make 
sense -I suspect it was built on 
government contract.' 


MUSIC 

Cliff Erickson, one-man entertainer, Alumni-Senior Club 
Phoenix, Club 23 

Pre-Sweat ltchies, McCormick's 
Head East, opened by Elizabeth Van Camp, and The Threat, Center Street, 9:30p.m., $6. 
On Campus Evening of Ethnic Diversity, music and performance at the Grace Coffeehouse, 9 p.m. Mousetrap, Agatha Christie play, Library Auditorium, 8 p.m., free admission NDISMC Charity Ball featuring the Groove and the NO 
Jazz Combo, North Dining Hall, 9:30 p.m.-1 :30 a.m. Tickets are $10 for couples, $6 for singles, and are available at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
MUSIC 

Cliff Erickson, one-man entertainer, Alumni-Senior Club 
Scarlet Beacon, Club 23 

The Clean Freaks, a band out of Cincinnati, McCormick's 
Bad Apple, classic rock band, 9:30p.m., $4. 
On Campus 

Fisher Regatta, St. Mary's Lake, 12 p.m. 
Hogstock, Holy Cross Field, 2:30p.m. 
Orchestra and Chorale Concert, Washington Hall, 8 
p.m. Performance Art Night, dance, music and expression at the Grace Coffeehouse, 9 p.m. Mousetrap, Agatha Christie play, Library Auditorium, 8 p.m., free admission Moonchildren, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 8 p.m. Tickets available at Saint Mary's Box Office, 284-4626. 
SUNDAY St. Ed's Charity Carnival, Fieldhouse Mall, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
NOTRE DAME Friday "Dead Poet's Society," Cushing Auditorium 8 p.m. 
"Do The Right Thing," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30, 9:45p.m. 
Saturday "When Harry Met Sally," Cushing Auditorium 8 p.m. "Do The Right Thing," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30, 
9:45p.m. 

UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "Pretty Woman," 7 and 9:45p.m. "Lord of the Flies," 7:20 and 9:20p.m. 
"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles," 7:30, 9:40p.m. 


M'ffi. Ir ~:Jn) s:MlDlffi: 111\'JMJ ~ 3(1) liNlllSMHN' 4l: 3n: 
&11.. PA'all.. A'lt01 11HH 
St. Ed's marks Earth Day with Carnival 
PETER AMEND accent writer 
I 
s the only reason you get outside these days 

to go from classroom 

to classroom, dorm to 
dining hall, the Rock 
for racquetball, 
LaFortune for laundry? 

Well, in honor of Earth Week, 
why not take a chance and do 

something extraordinary: spend 
the day enjoying St. Ed's 
Charity Carnival. It will take 
place this Sunday from 11 a.m. 
to 8 p.m. at Fieldhouse Mall. 

Thirteen dorms will each pro­vide a booth for the carnival. Students can get their mugs drawn by a caricaturist or test their testosterone levels on the perennial favorite bell ringer. Students can challenge friends to a fierce game of ring toss, hockey shoot, basketball shoot, darts (at the target!), and the mighty bean-bag toss. 
A virtual plethora of prizes will be at the disposal of all the winners. Besides the unadul­terated joy of non-academic ac­complishment, they can win a goldfish, shot-glasses, mini­basketballs, or the piece de re­sistance: a gift certificate to local restaurants. 
The feature which most dili­gently attracts crowds year after year is the classic dunk­tank. Come and see Notre Dame celebrities at the mercy of a student's throwing arm. A Golden Dunk Award will be given to the dunkee who at­tracts the largest crowd. If anything, try to find some time to go out to cheer on your fa­vorite drip. 
The two coordinators of the second annual St. Ed's carnival are Jim Milligan and Tony Porcelli. When asked to give a comment he responded splen­didly with "who says you can't change the world and have fun doing it too?" The proceeds will go to a local charity of each participating dorm's choice. Some representatives for Earth Day will be present to help increase environmental awareness. 
Clowns and jugglers will ap­pear from beginning to end, and there will be continuous music from various bands, in­cluding Boat House Blues, and St. Paul and the Martyrs. Both traditional carnival food and multi-cultural food will be served throughout the day. Admission and entertainment are free. Games are reasonably priced at one dollar, with all proceeds going to charity. 
IY\WIIlm'YtHS> 71: Jn) 

Membe.rs off 11ha Ge.neric:s. &, tllte.· .5l of <rltmk. S:ltadllws 
DeL; 
spirit re 
ELIZABETH WHOLIHAN accent writer 
T 
he fourth annual Fisher Regatta 
will take place 
this Saturday, 
April 21, at St. 
Mary's Lake. It 
began four years ago when Jay 
FarrahPr, o..o..w a senior, began 
what has become a "modern 
tradition" on the NO campus. 
He felt a dorm event for Fisher would create dorm spirit and unity, not only for the dorm but for the NO community as well. Farraher decided it would be best if it worked as a charity event. Fisher Regatta supports Andre House of Hospitality, a food shelter sponsored by the brothers of the Holy Cross Order. Although Masses are dedicated to Andre House and many Fisher residents volunteer their time to it year round, this event calls for involvement of the entire cam­pus. 
All money raised by the Fisher Regatta has been do­nated to Andre House for the past three years. This year, however, it was decided that the money would be divided be­tween Andre House of Hospitality and the South Bend Center for the Homeless. The latter will be donated in mem­ory of the late William Hickey, the University Food Services di­rector who was instrumental in giving Fisher Regatta a good 
--~~---------------------------­
11 

-



Holy Cross tries to bring ideals of 60's to ND with Hogstock 

zre to generate dorm 
BILL ROSEMANN 
accent writer 
A 
{ler Woodstock there was no place left to grow, no way for things to get any bigger, nothing that could be more exciting or gargantuan." --Jon Landau, author of American Music: From Storyville to Woodstock 
Obviously Mr. Landau has not !ward about the festival known as llogstoek, which will trans­port the Notre Dame commu­nity baek to thn "Summer of Love." lloly Cross Hall has sc­eurnd six local bands and ac­companying livestock to per­form Saturday following the Fischer Hegatta from 2:30 to H::JO pm on lloly Cross field. 
"It will bn an afternoon of flower pownr," promises llogstock commissioner Andy llilgnr. 
While rumors of appearances by Jimi llendrix and Janis Joplin are being vehemently de­nied. their music will be per­
• 
•

ults zn a 
start its first year by offerring to serve a cookout during the races. 
The tradition has continued and will be repeated this year as the North Dining llall closes, and the cookout will take place by St. Mary's Lake. Fisher will provide a live band, Mr. E, as lunchtime entertainment. 
Farraher and a committee havn worknd to receive support from Domino's Pizza, Coca-

la, and radio station WAOR, 
will broadcast live from 
event. 
Awards from local merchants, 
uch as Domino's, will be formed by the various bands. The "Woodstock" theme will be faithfully preserved by selec­tions of the Grateful Dead and more recent works such as the Who's Tommy, presented by the Boathouse Blues. 
The six local bands will cre­ate explosions of symphonic joy lasting 45 minutes each, inter­woven with various individuals rolliking through folk favorites. Tie-dyed t-shirts will be sold for $10 as Hilger envisions "lots of hippies coming in from all over the country." 
lloly Cross also hopes to ac­quire real-life mascots from a local farmer to complete the carnival-like atmosphere. Whether the swine will join in the climax of the show (a free­form jam oddessy) remains to be seen. Members of the Generics and the 5 o'clock Shadows, however, will make cameo appearances in the blaz­ing apocalyptic finale. 
The convergence of melodius melody makers is not intended to stuff the dorm's treasure vault, but, explains Hilger, "because this is the hall's last 
'modern tradition' 
presented to the winners of the men's and women's final heats, as well as the Fisher Hall Hegatta Cup, which is kept for one year. 
"1\venty-three boats are ex­pected to race tomorrow with the competition open to all dorms, off-campus students, and Saint Mary's students. Fisher was the winner the first year, Cavanaugh and Lewis have both won for the past two years, and St. Edward's has been noted twice for most orig­inal design on its boats. Boats have ranged from elaborate to simple-paddlewheel boats, a year, we wanted something that Holy Cross would be remem­bered by." 
"Hopefully the festival will 
continue, maybe adopted by 
another hall or by the Hall 
President's Council," wishes 
Holy Cross llall President Pete 
LaFleur. 

A professionally-lighted stage and flaming torches will keep the festival going on until the musicians or audience tires. A concession stand will also be selling inexpensive food for the hungry concert attenders. "Hamburgers, hot dogs, and sodas will be offered at base cost, not to turn a profit, but just to keep people there," stated LaFleur. 
In a world swamped by techno-pop, "New Kids," cas­singles and global doom, this celebration of authentic rock and brotherly love is a welcome respite. Hogstock promises to usher in radical changes of thought and healthy hedonism. As Andy remarks, "daisies will be handed out and free love en­couraged." 
viking ship, and even one of several kegs tied together. 
The radio broadcast is ex­pected to begin at llam, and the races should commence at noon. Holy Cross's Hog Stock will begin on Holy Cross field around 2:30pm after the races. 
It's the biggest event this weekend, and Fisher Regatta committee members hope it will be the most successful one in its short history. Said committee member Dan McDevitt, "This is Jay's (Farraher's) last year, and since he's the founder I hope it can be a really big turnout. We want to see as many people there as possible." 
Father 'Black Matt' Miceli finishes 27 years of helping out Cavanaugh students 

GREG LUCAS 
accent writer 

L 
ast fall the incoming freshmen of 
Cavanaugh Hall filed 
into the hall chapel 

to receive Father Miceli's official welcome to Notre Dame Mass. It is likely that any of Cavanaugh's thou­sands of alumni from the last three decades would be able to recall Miceli's simple recipe for staying out of trouble as an undergraduate. 
"You'll be all right," Miceli says as he peers down impos­ingly from the pulpit at the front of the chapel. "as long as y~u avoid the three "W"s: .. wme... women... and weed. He is always quick to add the corollary that only the last "W" need be avoided completely. 
This year's freshmen were the final recipients of Miceli's unique brand of wisdom. After 30 years as a dorm rector and 27 years as rector of Cavanaugh, Father Matthew Miceli will be turning in his latchkeys and flashlight for a more quiet spot on campus. 
Miceli, whose term as rector is almost double that of his nearest competitor, has become a permanent fixture in the an­nals of Notre Dame history. "Father Miceli is like a country pastor who knows his people and they know him," com­mented Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus, "and that's a pretty good thing to be as rector of a dorm." 
Miceli, who was known as "Black Matt" in earlier days for his rather strict governance of dorm life, has never relin­quished his firm control over Cavanaugh affairs. However, his nickname as of late, "The Mooch," may reflect the fact that he has softened somewhat over the years. 
"You can be a little tough with kids when they know you're interested in them," Hesburgh, a long-time friend of Miceli, observed. After a stream of thousands of students, Miceli is still quick to match a name with a face, even if that means memorizing the pictures that he takes of every freshman when they arrive at the dorm. 
On virtually any night, Miceli's door is open, and his light is on, until 2 or 3 in the 
morning for anyone who might want to stop in and talk about a problem. "The most important aspect of being rector is just being there when you're needed," Miceli said. 
Father Thomas Blantz, a fourth floor resident of 
'You'll be all right. ..as long as you avoid the three "W"s: wine. .. women... and weed.' He is always quick to add the corollary that only the last "W" be avoided completely. 
Cavanaugh, said that Miceli likes to have another priest in the dorm precisely because he realizes that students may wish to talk to a religious figure that is not also their rector. "In that way Father is extr.emely consci­entious," Blantz said, adding that Miceli makes it a point to visit students when they are hospitalized or ill and keeps in contact with many alumni and parents with whom he has grown close. 
Miceli established the Andy Sowder Fund ten years ago in memory of the Cavanaugh IIall president who died of spinal meningitis during his senior year. With proceeds from the annual hall play and unsolicited donations, the fund now ex­ceeds $21,000, and interest is currently used to help needy students in the dorm. 
With Miceli's rather hard-line reputation, a lot of people are not aware of the number of times he has gone to bat for someone in his dorm, said Hesburgh, recalling a specific instance several years ago. 
An incident came to Hesburgh's office in which there was little question that the student's offense was grounds for expulsion, Hesburgh said. On Miceli's plea the student was allowed to graduate. Miceli "didn't want a single incident" to spoil the student's life, Hesburgh said. "I know when Matt was talking about someone in his hall, he wasn't just blowing smoke. lie really knew him," Hesburgh said. 
"Above all, Matt has an enormous enthusiasm for his job," llesburgh said, "I've talked with students in his dorm and I know that. It's easy to get very stale in that job," he added. 
Miceli, who has been dean of ­rectors for the past 14 years, will continue to teach theology and live on campus, although he is not sure yet of the loca­tion. lie hopes to use his spare time to write down his memoirs and perhaps publish a book on his experiences as rector of 
Cavanaugh. 
In his last newsletter to the dorm, Father Miceli officially announced his plans to retire and wrote: "My proudest title, next to my priestly title, has been, and will continue to be, Rector of Cavanaugh." The stu­dents of Cavanaugh will honor Miceli's retirement tonight with a catered banquet in North Dining Hall. 
"The closer you get to him, the better you like him, and you can't say that about most peo­-­
ple," Hesburgh said. 

~ 
page 12 The Observer Friday, April 20, 1990 
-

Three theories on why God created man 
God created man, the rabbis 
watchful by an angel's song: gently, 'I want to Jive.' 
say, because He loves stories; "Thou who seest all ..." and "At first there will be a little and man, in his turn, loves sto­Father Robert Griffin then found He was in no posi­darkness about you and then a 
ries of God. tion to help a lost bird home, great darkness, which is called Here, for Eastertide, are Letters to a Lonely God for He had not seen out of childhood, and then you will be three stories of God which you which forest the poor creature a man, and climb the mountain may have missed in your own had come. as I have commanded you.'' reading. After all the "Letters YOU!" engraved on it. This was up two long days. At the very Deciding not to take His eyes This right hand then took to God" taken up with argu­Adam! God held out his hand end of the sixth day, they had off the earth anymore, He left leave of the left and, bowing ments, I hope these creation ac­for the other to kiss, but man go_tten through all the little em­the work of creation to His down before it, said, "Hail, counts will be like the taste of twirled up his moustache and bryos except one. This embryo hands. Although He wanted to Holy Ghost." But here St. Paul sherbert that cleanses the said: "Come on, old one, out of was Man. "Well, Our little find out what man might look stepped up and smote off God's palate betwen the courses of a the way! Let me pass!" man," said God. "What can We like, He continued to gaze down right hand, and an archangel heavy dinner. In T.H. White's "The Once do for you?" at the earth. However, He had caught it and bore it away. 
The first is from and Future King," the badger "Please God," said the em­bidden His hands to show Him A short time after, God, Kazantzaki's "Zorba the has written a treatise for his bryo, "I think that You made man before they should deliver watching attentively, saw that Greek." One morning God woke doctor's degree, showing why me in the shape which I now him over to life. men wearing armor were busy­up feeling in the dumps. "What Man has become the master of have for reasons best known to Then suddenly, He saw some­ing themselves about a particu­a devil of a God I am! I haven't animals. Which came first, the Yourselves, and that it would thing dark falling through lar mountain. God expected to even any men to burn incense to chicken or the egg? The badger be rude to change. If I am to space. Filled with foreboding, see His hand climb up there. me and swear by my name to tells us, "The first thing created have my choice, I will stay as I he called to His hands. They But there came only a man in, help pass the time away! I've was the egg." am. I will stay a defenceless appeared, blotched with clay. as it seemed, a red cloud, who had enough of living all alone When God manufactured all embryo all my life, doing my "Where is man?" God thun­was dragging upwards some like an old screech owl." the eggs out of which creatures best to make myself a few fee­dered. The right hand flew at black swaying thing ..." 
He spat on his hands, pulled come, he called the embryos be­ble implements out of wood, the left, "You dropped him!" This second tale of Rilke's up his sleeves, put on his fore him. He said, "Now, you iron, and other materials. I Then the two raced each other has the title "The Stranger." glasses, took a piece of earth, embryos, here you are, all hope that the feeble decision of in saying: "Man was so impa­The stranger, who listens to the spat on it, made mud of it, looking exactly the same, and this small innocent will find t~ent. H.~ was in such a worry to story of God's hands so under­kneaded it well, and made it We are going to give you the favour with Yourselves." hve... standingly, is probably the dark into a little man which he stuck choice of what you want to be. "Well done," exclaimed the But God was very angry. He Russian Christ who wanders in the sun. Seven days later he When you grow up you will get delighted Creator. "Here, all pushed both hands away. ''I've over the earth unrecognized pulled it out of the sun. It was bigger anyway, but We are you embryos with your beaks finished with both of you; go and persecuted. baked. God looked at it and be­pleased to grant you another and whatnots, look upon Our and do as you like." Now, they In her poem, "God Speaks," gan to split his sides with gift as well. first man. He is the only one are on their knees all day, doing Stevie (christened Florence) laughter. "For instance, at the moment who has guessed Our riddle, penance. It appears that God Smith writes: "I made Man with 
God says, "It's a pig standing you cannot dig. Anybody who out of all of you, and We have was resting because He was too many faults./Yet I love him/ up on its hind legs. That's not would like to turn his hands great pleasure in conferring angry with His hands. And if he wishes, I have a home what I wanted at all! There's no into a pair of spades or garden upon him Order of Diminion In his second story of God, above for him./ I should like mistake, I've made a mess of forks is allowed to do so. At over the Fowls of the Air, and Rilke tells us how God called him to be happy. I am genial. things!" So he picks him up by present you can only use your the Beasts of the Earth, and His right hand, which had so the scruff of his neck and kicks mouths for eating. Anybody Fishes of the Sea ..." long been banished. When God "He should not paint me as if his backside. "Go on, clear off! who would like to use his In the first of his "Stories of saw it before Him in its beauty, I were abominable./ As for in­All you've got to do now is to mouth as an offensive weapon, God," Rilke tells us of God's He was inclined to forgiveness. stance, that I had a son and make other little pigs. The can change it by asking." hands. God began the creation, But He remembered in time gave him for their salvation./ earth is yours! Now jump to All the embryos thought the Rilke says, by making the earth. and commanded, without look­This is one of the faults I it. .." matter over. They were allowed As long as only things were be­ing at it, "You are to go down meant. It leads to nervous 
But it wasn't a pig at all! It two or three specializations. ing made, God did not need to to earth. You are to take on the prostration./ All the same,
.... 
was wearing a felt hat, well­Some chose to use their arms watch the earth continuously, form you will see there among there is a difficulty. I should creased trousers, and Turkish as flying machines, while others and He forgot it completely men, and to stand, naked, upon like him to be happy in heaven slippers with red tassels. And in selected to use their bodies as when He began to create man. a mountain. As soon as you ar­here./ But he cannot come by its belt was a pointed dagger boats and their hands as oars. Eventually, though, he was rive below, go to a young wishing. Only by being already with the words: ''I'LL GET The asking and granting took reminded of His need to be woman and say to her, but very at home here." 
.. 
.,. 
.­
J.Bl®~~t!®~Jk ~@ 
Saturday, April 21 Holy Cross Field -Notre Dallle 
Schedule of Bands 
2:30  3:15  Mr. E  
3:30  -4:15  Smoke Taxi  
4:30 -5:15  The Talismen  
5:30 -6:15  Phoenix  
6:30 -7:15  The Boathouse Blues Band  
7:30 ­ ???...  St. Paul and the Martyr's  

 -­ With special appearances by members  
e  {3 l  of The Generics and The 5:00 Shadows.  

• 
CONCESSIONS: affordable food will be available during the dinner hours. 

• 
PIGS: some £rollicking swine of all shapes and sizes should be on hand. 

• 
TYE-DYES: special"Hogstock" shirts will be available throughout the day. 

• 
DAISIES: ceremonial flowers will be given out to the first 200 fans. 

• 
RECREATION: volleyball nets and other forms of relaxation will be available . 

• 
BRING YOUR OWN: frisbees, blankets, hackey sacks, etc. 


Friday, April 20, 1990 
The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day ctassifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
NOTICES TYPING term papers/reports/letter/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277­5134 Cathy. 1111!111111111111111111111111111111111111!11!1!11!111!  NEEDED !mediately : Full time person to watch 2 yr. old. 5 days from 6a.m. to 4 p.m. Pay negotiable. send letter or come to 316 E Broadway, Mish between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. HEY NOW04/29f72LIVEDEADIN WEST GERMANY-WHOHAS THIS  STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? 2-BDR. APT. AVAILABLE FOR SUBLEASING. CALL NOW!!! 284­r7n FORSALE 20GAL AQUARIUM $75 #3270 DAVE  If you like bike riding, banana splits, New Mexican Sunsets, Sunday walks, Christmas lights, fireplace tears, KFC picnics, naps, mass, the Isle of Wight, pictures on your back, G. Winston, omlets, not smoking, and your best friend, then have a fantastic 21 birthday!  SMOKE TAXI AT LENNY'S TONIGHT PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES at mccormick's  Rob Pasin and Fred Tombar shall be vanquished!!! You shall suffer a miserable, horrible death at the hands of the BIG 0. Die, you power-hungry swine. Love and wet kisses, Herbie and Alison. P.S.-We voted for Smith. RIDE THE WINDY CITY SHUTILE  
111111111  BIRTHDAYSHOWPLEASECALL  PHISH IS COMINGII  friday night  TO CHICAGO THIS WEEKEND.  
opening reception for the ND STUDENT ART SHOW:  TWICE AT X3270-WILL TRADE  "Realistic" AM/FM stereo receiver.  WED. APRIL 25  PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES  TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION  
SUN APRIL 22 2PM-4PM O'SHAG GALLERY-THE SNITE  ATIENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602­ 60 watts per channel. Great condition but MUST SELL! $175 or b.o. Call 271-5686.  EARTH DAY EARTH DAY EARTH DAY  ANGELA SCHLUETER IS 20 ANGELA SCHLUETER IS 20  DESK. ONLY $1 0.00 Capek,  
111111111111)11111111111111111111111111!11111!!1111111 111111111  838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262. ALASKA SUMMER  1979 MGB convertible, British Racing Green, AM/FM radio,  ANGELA SCHLUETER IS 20  Good luck with your excrement. Attention Phoenix fans:  
WORDPROCESSING 272-1837  EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. $5,000+/monthl Over 8,000  excellent condition, 54,000 miles, $4,300. Call277-6551.  ~1  ~1  ~1  ~1  ~1  ~1  ~1  Angela Schlueter turns 20 on Saturday, call her and wish  Thanks to everyone who came to see us this year. Hope you  
$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! PANDORA'S BOOKS Corner of ND ave and Howard 233-2342 HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUMMER? Jet there from Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for no more than $229, or from the East Coast for no more than $160 with AIRHITCH (R) (as reported in  openings. Free transportation! Room & Board! No experience necessary. MALE or FEMALE. Send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box 84008, Seattle, WA 98124­Satisfaction Guaranteed. One BIG horse. Call Catherine the Great, c/o Rob Pasin 239-7668. FOR RENT  LAW/MED/GRAD SCHOOL IN ST. LOUIS? Own for What it Costs to Rent. Condo in Historic Bldg For Sale. 10 mins. to Wash. U & SLU Med Ctrs & Main Campuses. Spacious Rehab w/Appliances & More. Call 271-8242. 81 PONTIAC GRAND LeMANS fully loaded, good condition $1000/obo, Doug 272-7449  Junior scrapbooks are on sale today from 2-4pm in Montgomery Theatre on the first floor of LaFortune and during dinner at both dining halls. Supplies are limited. Also, don't forget that this is your last chance to pick up your pictures from the JPW slide show.  her a Happy B'Day at 4128! WATCH FOR DETAILS FOR PMS AND DICK HOLLIDAY AND THE BAMBOO GANG!! come support Notre Dame student artists at the opening reception for THE STUDENT ART EXHIBITION  enjoyed it. Watch for us in the Nazz. -The Band The One and Only Charity Ball THE GROOVE  ....  
NY Times. Let's Gel & Consumer Reports.) For info: AIRHITCH (R) 212-864-2000. Typ1ng Pickup & Delivery 277-7406  Furn. 2 & 4 bedrm. houses. Safe. Washer/dryer. Sand V-ball court. Bruce: 288-5653/234­3831. 6 bdr. 2 baths, Secure house. 1021 DeMaude. $550 mo. Call  1989 DODGE OMNI LIKE NEW CONDITION LOW MILEAGE 5SPEED AM FM CASSETIE 4600.00 CALL 2333458  Class of 1991. Get involved during your Senior Year at ND. We need people interested in making the most of senior year for the Senior  SUNDAY APRIL 22 2pm-4pm O'SHAUGHNESSY GALLERY THE SNITE MUSEUM TIM -THE BEST PRESENT YOU  Fri.April20 Tickets at LaFortune Info. Desk or  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US! MAIL BOXES ETC. UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. On S.R. 23, just past Ironwood. 277-6245 Mr. and Mrs. Pas1n, Please teach your son to play softball before he is embarrassed at the hands of the student media. Love, Catherine the Great. P.S.-Your subscription has been cancelled. ' LOST/FOUND I LOST: AI the Senior Formal, my date lost his Notre Dame  234 6688 or 234 5041. NEW G.A. RENTAL -6 BR, LORY, MICRO, CLEAN & FURNISHED, 1-1/2 BATHS. 233-9947 NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., efficiency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep., references. 616-483-9572. GRADUATION HOUSING FOR 4­5 PEOPLE. 708-355-4848. 3 BEDROOM-GARAGE 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS $525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT 232-3616. Turtle Creek Apt furnished/summer Matt x3549  SMC-approved LOFT --great condition; fits any dorm except Regina singles. Call Beki @ 283-2629. Best offer. 2 student government leaders, slightly used but rarely available. Contact the 'Save Rob Pasin' fund for further information. Come equipped with bat and balls. PHONE RINGERSIII ...PLAYS THE NOTRE DAME "FIGHT SONG" DURING INCOMING CALLS AND STOPS WHEN YOU ANSWER. GREAT GIFTS FOR ONLY $15. AVAILABLE AT THE JACC PRO SHOP '80 Dodge Aspen 4 dr, AC, new tires,good condition. $750. 283-4348.  Class Board. Applications are due on Friday, April 20 at the Junior Class Office. Applications may be picked up at the Secretary's Office on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune. ROCK FOR JUSTICE ROCK FOR JUSTICE ROCK FOR JUSTICE FREE CONCERT THIS FRIDAY! FIELDHOUSE MALL 4-7pm SPONSORED BY: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL & ODN T-SHIRTS & INFO CONCERNING HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES To Punker Girl Carrie on her  COULD HOPE FOR -RICH IS GONE! JOIN THE CELEBRATION ON 4N. M SUCCEEDED IN HER FIRST ATIEMPT AT USING A TAMPON! WE KNOW YOU COULD DO IT! D.L.K. hiag GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID every Friday 12:15 Administration Building steps Be There! Do you like to read ? Bring your books to CLUB 23 ! 'MO'  283-BAND DIANE RICKER IS 22!!! DIANE RICKER IS 221!! DIANE RICKER IS 22!1! WHODUNIT? Find out at THE MOUSETRAP 8pm TONIGHT and TOM MORROW -Library Aud. Congratulations, ANGIE CALABRESE Good luck presenting your research at the American Chemical Society meeting in Boston! -The ND American Chemical Society Student Affiliates Dick Holliday and the Bamboo  
monogram nng. If you found a men's ring anywhere, please call Kristen at #2670. The ring is very valuable. FOUND-a set of keys by Stepan Courts on Thursday 4/5. Keys are held together by a piece of string. Call Pat at x1560 Lost: silver framed glasses in black case. at Cartier field or vicinity. Reward. Call Mike at x2082. LOST: GOLD SEIKO WATCH WITH BLACK STRAP SOMEWHERE BETWEEN B1 PARKING LOT & LAFORTUNE. LOST ON WEDNESDAY, 4/18. CALL FATMATA 239-5243 BEFORE 5 PM OR 288-0440 AFTER 6 PM. LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. REWARD. SEAN 2073 LOST: Black and gold Seiko dress watch on the second floor of the library. Please call Pat x24 79 or give to library security at the front desk. I lost my Canon CAMERA at the Senior Formal dance. Please call Kay at 277-8813 if you found one. SENIOR FORMAL: Are those pictures you developed not yours'  ROOMMATE NEEDED. Furnished room in nice, quiet house near campus. Considerate, mature, non-smoker a must. Available mid­May. Summer $175/mo. Avail for Fall/Spring $250/mo. Call 232­9952. Thanks. Furnished office space on the second floor of LaFortune. Great view of North Quad. To be vacated this Friday because StudGov is going DOWN!!! SUBLEASING FURNISHED TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER. CALL TOM 273­0302. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291-7153. NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD SAFE AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF ND 2773097 CONDO, 2 BEDROOM, 2 BATH, VERY CLEAN, POOL, PATIO, LARGE CLOSETS. 232-3972. 2 HOUSES, REDUCED RENT. WASHERS & DRYERS, BURGLAR ALARMS, FULLY FURNISHED, WILL RENT TO GROUP OR INDIVIDUALS. CONTACT CHUCK GLORE 232-1776. FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NO. CAMPUS. 272-0615.------------------------------------­Sublet a townhouse for summer! 2  Couches, Beds, etc. Off-Campus Furn. 4 Sale 271-5651 CHEAP OPEN HOUSE 1122 FOSTER ST SUNDAY, 4/22,2-4 PM, Lovely 3+ bdr, close to NO, 2 fireplaces, family + sunrooms, lm'"' •"rn;~~34' Hey! B I L L Y J 0 E Lfans: Would you like two tickets to his APRIL 24 CONCERT IN THE ROSEMONT HORIZON? If so, call Phil at #1 051 or Molly at #2669 or #2648 for more ticket information BEST OFFER/ACT FAST Help! My little old Italian Grandma is coming for graduation! I need an extra ticket or I'll be out of the will! I will pay much bucks. Call X4238 and leave a message. Tickets for the Student Government bloodbath today at 4:30 at Clay Park are still available. Contact Herbie at The Observer for further details. Attention please. I need two grad tix bad honest, I am willing to pay big bucks for them. Please call Greg at 3114 ""**"'*"'*******  Birthday!! Hope it is a good one for you! We love you tons even though you are a Solarcaine Queen , a whip cream monster, and a chocolate cake devourer! Your Best Biller Buddies: Brittany, ··Aiyssa...and.. Laura!·@ CPA TAKERS Help! I need a ride to and from Chicago for exam. Will help pay expe-nses. Tom 2196. Diane-It is when love is given in accordance with merit that people remain friends and their friendship endures. -Aristotle (and you thought I retired!) GOING HOME !?!?!? For great rental van rates call Tim at x1143 ASAP. SUMMER OR FIT JOB: ND family in Chicago area looking for Nanny for 1 8mo boy. Live in or out. Top pay. Call (708) 433-1628. NEXT WEEK: The Future of Women in the Catholic Church: Panel Discussions and the opinions of Bishops. Get A Glimpse of the Future! EQUAL RITES FOR WOMEN See the future of the Catholic Church: the ordination of Women.  AN TOSTAL SIGN-UPS GOLFTOURNEY A AIRBAND N MATIRESS RACE T TIRE ROLLING 0 IMPERSONATIONS S CHARIOTS T PILLOW FIGHTS A TUGOFWAR L FRIDAY, APRIL 20 6-8 PM SUB OFFICE SENIORS Can you afford to lose $1 ,000? Take advantage of your student discount on an IBM PS/2 BEFORE you graduate and spring into savings. JUST DO IT! Call an IBM student rep today! 237-3680, -3790, -3794 ADOPTION. We are a childless, educated, secure, happily married, white Christian couple. Give your baby a fantastic future. Let us adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­974-8227. BROWN LEATHER JACKET: I lost my "Mirage" jacket on Saturday night at ND Ave and Corby (SCANTS'). If you have it, please call me-lt's of great sentimental value. Reward!! Call Steve@3591 Fiesta en casa de Hector viernes Ia unima del afio  Gang coming May 2 to SMC! SMC EARTH DAY FESTIVAL THIS SAT., APRIL 21, 1-5 pm, FIELD SOUTH OF MADELEVA-with bands. dancing & food!! Save the Planet!! FRI AND SAT AT THE GRACE COFFEEHOUSE FRI: EVENING OF ETHNIC DIVERSITY (Music and Performance) SAT: PERFORMANCE ART NIGHT (Experimental music, dance and performance) 9:00pm both evenings Seniors: Are you feeling a little wild? Looking for a roaring good time? Hop aboard the Senior Month Mystery Bus leaving Holy Cross field at 1 pm Saturday! Jessica and Sheila, Hope ya'll get well soon. Talk to you later. --The Stanford Coalition of Southern Gentlemen to the student golfer who found m1 keys on the 1Oth tee Easter sunday:  
Maybe you or your date picked up the wrong camera by accident on SAT night. Please call #1765. THANKS LOST: One brown leather jacket, Saturday night at Corby and ND Ave. It is a "Mirage" brand. Monetary reward offered. Call Steve at 283-3591. A green, 3-speed, Schwinn bike. It was left at Stepan b-ball courts last week. If found. please call Tim x1828. Monetary reward offered. LOST: A BLACK & GREEN CAMOUFLAGE JACKET. REWARD. 234-9648. LOST: Women's high school class  bedrm, 1 t/2 bath, kitchen, living; partially furnished. Call Amy or Sharon, SOON! X1302 FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED: To share furnished 2 bdrm. apt. for the summer. Low rent, pool etc. call M.J. 277-7496 3-4 bedroom house with 2 full baths, washer/dryer & garage. Located safely across the street from campus. Ph. 234-7650 AVAILABLE JUNE OR AUGUST, 4 BEDROOM HOUSE, COMPLETELY FURNISHED. SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234­9364. TURTLE CREEK SUBLET  NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ CALL #2059-JOHN Eccentric millionaire seeking new heir wants GRAD TIX. Harry x2263. WANTED-GRADUATION TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800­888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT AFTER 5 616-342-0729. Need 1 ticket for graduation. Price negotiable. Please call Mary-Frances x2909 Need grad. tix for big $. Call Kevin 277-2399 t PERSONALS  HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY, PATIY. YOU ARE THE BEST DAUGHTER AND SISTER. WE LOVE YOU. MOM, PAP!, KING ROB, HERO NICO, BABY ALEX AND THE BUG. Guess who's 21 on the 21st?? ELIZABETH HRYCK0!!11!11!1! Hope Sat. is the best day ever. Happy Birthday, Lizster! Have a BALL!!!!!! -M. Stephanie O.(B.P.), You light up my life! My life is meaningless without you: Will you marry me? With love, Lewis Fishman ·······cuss FANs········  SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US!! I Mail Boxes Etc. We're ON CAMPUS 5/5 to 5/12, In La Fortune (Dooley Room)! UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 277-6245 NEED RIDE : to IU for UTILE 500 4/20-4/22 Call Jenny X4998 Sign up for the NORTH QUAD COUNCIL in the Student Government office, 2nd floor, La Frotune. Or call Mike Gaffney at 239-7668 and leave your name and phone number. DENNIS WOLFE,  THANK YOU VERY MUCH!! John 1583 YOI I GOT TWO WORDS FOR YOU!: Thank you. Yes, you-Delli. Happy B-Day Timmy. No matter how old you are you'll always be my UTILE brother. Love Shan FROM CINCINNATI, OHIO THE CLEAN FREAKS THE CLEAN FREAKS SATURDAY AT MCCORMICK'S A HO-HO RECORDS PRESENTATION  
ring ...g~ild ring, dark blue stone with gold crest on top...class of 1986...initials LAG on the inside ... PLEA E CALL #2533 WANTED NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE any weekend-ext 1938  TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE FOR THE SUMMER CALL KEVIN,MIKE,OR JEFF X1644 SUMMER SUBLET Furnished Turtle Creek Apt Upstairs, 2bdrm 277-9470 Tom or Dave  START YOUR NEW CAREER WITH A NEW PAR! We have special financing for employed graduates. Call: Gary Erb At: Gates Toyota 237-4999  We have Cubs vs. Pirates tickets for Sunday, 4/22 on sale with transportation to Wrigley for $17. Anyone can buy tickets in the Senior Class Office TODAY or at Senior Bar lunch. (We may even be persuaded to sell them without the bus). Don't waste any more time-buy your tickets now.  stop studying so much! No one knows who you are anymore! Who really cares if you have a car on the line? Isn't a social life more important??! I think so... You, along w~h everyone else, know who this is from  PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES MCCORMICK'S FRIDAY 10 p.m.  


Scoreboard 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Atlantic  Division  
w  
y-Philadelphia  53  
z-Boston  50  
z-New York  45  
Washington  31  
Miami  17  
New Jersey  1 7  
Central  Division  
x-Detroit  57  
z-Chicago  55  
z-Milwaukee  43  
z-lndiana  41  
Cleveland  40  
Atlanta  39  
Orlando  17  

WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division 
w 
z-San Antonio 54 z-Utah 54 z-Dallas 45 Denver 42 Houston 40 Minnesota 22 Charlotte 19 Pacific Division x-LA Lakers 62 z-Portland 57 z-Phoenix 53 Seattle 40 Golden State 36 LA Clippers 30 Sacramento 23 
x-clinched conference title y-clinched division title z-clinched playoff berth 
Thursday's Games Dallas 111 . Charlotte 102 Philadelphia 107, Detroit 97 Chicago 120. Washington 117 Milwaukee 96. New York 95 Denver 130, Houston 127. OT Seattle 130, Sacramento 118. OT Los Angeles Lakers 113. Minnesota 89 Friday's Games Cleveland at Orlando. 7:30 p.m. Washington at Miami, 7:30p.m. Chicago at Boston. 8 p.m. Detroit at Indiana, 8:30p.m. Atlanta at New York. 8:30p.m. Houston at Dallas, 8:30p.m. San Antonio at Denver, 9:30 p.m. Minnesota at Utah. 9:30p.m. 

L  Pet  GB  Streak  
28  .654  Won 4  
30  .625  21/2  Won 1  
35  .563  71/2  Losl 1  
49  .388  21 1/2  Lost 1  
63  .213  35 1/2  Lost 9  
63  .213  35 1/2  Lost 5  
23  .713  Lost 1  
25  .688  2  Won 2  
38  .531  141/2  Won 1  
39  .513  16  Lost 1  
40  .500  17  Won 4  
41  .488  18  Won 1  
63  .213  40  Lost 14  
L  Pet  GB  Streak  
26  .675  Won 5  
26  .675  Lost 2  
35  .563  9  Won 2  
38  .525  12  Won 3  
40  .500  14  Lost 1  
58  .275  32  Lost 3  
62  .235  35 1/2  Lost 1  
18  .775  Won 4  
23  .713  5  Won 2  
27  .663  9  Lost 1  
40  .500  22  Won 1  
44  450  26  Won 1  
50  .375  32  Lost 3  
58  .284  391/2  Lost 5  
Saturday's Games  

Miami at Atlanta. 7:30 p.m. 
New Jersey at Milwaukee. 9 p.m. 
Portland at Sacramento, 10 p.m. 
Los Angeles Lakers at Los Angeles Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 
Sunday's Games 
Boston at Philadelphia. t p.m. 
Indiana at Washington. t p.m. 
New York at Cleveland. t p.m. 
Chicago at Detroit. 1 p.m. 
Utah at Houston. 1 p.m. 
Phoenix at San Antonio, 1 p.m. 
Minnesota at Denver. 4 p.m. 
Seattle at Golden State, 4:30p.m. 
Orlando at New Jersey, 7 p.m. 
Charlotte at Dallas. 8 p.m. 

Los Angeles Clippers at Seattle, 10 p.m. 

Los Angeles Lakers at Portland. 10 p.m. 
Golden State at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m. 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Results lor Thursday's Games 
Stepan 1 
Sweet Scott P & the Dwarfs over 5 Guys from Zahm Who Can't Win by 7 

3rd Degree Burns over Freedom Rock II: Turn It Up by 12 
Nubian Pharoahs over Fergusons by 12 
L Train over 4 Hockey Players & ... by 11 
Stepan 2 
The Teeth over Shay's Rebellion by 2 
J. Crew Cotton Knit Reversible Weave Mango Barn Jacket over We Can Do Some Good Things 

by2 Cab's Crew over Clark & Company by 3 Hokey Jokeys over Kelly's Boyfriend & 3 Other 
Guys by 12 
Stepan 3 

The Cotton Club over The Blues Brothers by 14 
It Doesn't Count Unless You Hit the J over Don't Pass to Fruball -He'll Shoot by 2 Clockwork Orange over 1 Game & Out by 5 We've Always Been Buster Douglas Fans over 
Bottle of Bacardi & 3 Others Who Give Pleasure by forfeit 
Stepan 4 

Goldfinger & the 4 Pinkies over We Don't Need No Stinkin' Keith Tower by 3 Eddie & the Cruisers over Hutch Bricks by 6 Environmental Rapists over Tonsil Hockey II by 
4 

Stuff Fest over Moses. Ezekiel. Jeremiah. Elijah &Salby12 
Stepan 5 
Tequilla White Lightning over You're Done by 
13 

Noxious Gaseous Emissions over Hanging Out With Judas lscariot by 16 
... :
1gger s ~ xpress over e a ' e by 7 Sons of Chachi over Drive By by 5 

Stepan 6 Sweet Lou & the Teabags over Veni, Vini. Vinci (We Came, We Saw. We Lost) by 2 
S. Bend Mishawaka Still Alive With Pride over Mouthfulls by 5 We've Got Krunch & You Don't over 4 Studs & A 
Chemist by 6 5 Sally Guys over Sanctum Excrementum by 3 
Bookstore 9 
IBM over Drew a Blank by 12 
Multiple Scoregasms over Everclear by 17 

Air Sirotilc over 5 Buys Who Have Never Been 
in Cliff's Kitchen by 15 Reckless Abandon over Chunks of Frog Feed by 8 Dry Heaves & Drool over The Dunking Irish by 12 
IIOOkstore 10 Prof. Longhair & Manhattan Express over Gangster Disciples by 11 Team #260 over 5 Big Organs That Need Tuning by 2 
3rd & Short over ED by 6 

Santa Blitzen & 3 Guys over 0 For 3 But We Still Have Our Health by 1 0 
Lyons 11 
Rubber Cement II over Shirley's Mole by 6 

f.R. Gash & Slam Pieces over Have Gun Will 
Travel by 13 Spider Agnum P.f. over Juco's by 10 Shoot Or Get Off over Tunnel Dwellers by 11 
Lyons 12 

Enawd over Phenylketonuriacs From Hell by 9 
Shirts over 4 Ninjas & A Banshee by 7 Barnyard Animals over 5 Guys Who Would Have Accepted Illinois' Offer by 3 

SPORTS CALENDAR 
Friday, April 20 Outdoor Track at Kansas Relay Men's Golf at Akron Invitational 
Saturday, April 21 Baseball at Dayton (2), 12 p.m. Outdoor Track at Kansas Relay Men's Golf at Akron Invitational Lacrosse at Ohio Wesleyan, 2 p.m. Softball at MCC Tournament. Dayton. Ohio 
Sunday, April 22 Baseball at Dayton (2), 12 p.m. Men's golf at Akron Invitational Men's tennis vs. OHIO STATE. 1 p.m. Softball at MCC Tournament, Dayton. Ohio 
Games for Friday, April 20 
Stepan 1 4:00-Air Check & Ground Support vs. Air Zainea 

4:45 -The Wishes vs. Basketball Alia Quatra Formaggi 5:30-Frank McCann's Fan Club & 5 Other Wrestlers vs. We Ain't Soft 
6:15-Salt, Salt Shaker vs. We Gatta See A Man About A Clog 
Stepan 2 
4:00-Alley Rats vs. We Give Good Video 

4:45 -Stappamasquon & the Combat Warriors vs. Asta Ia Vista Baby 
5:30-Last Yr's Champs vs. Secretary's Dream 
6:15-Dead by Dawn vs. The Good. The Bad & 
The Laundry 
Stepan 3 4:00-Hawk Will Never Die vs. Pangborn Express 

4:45 -Return of the Chickenheads vs. 5 Guys Who Like Hoops 5:30-Soul Sonic Force vs. The 6-Man from Skid 
6:15-Return of Skip Holtz, War Memorial ..vs. The Innkeepers 
Stepan 4 
4:00-She's Gatta Have It vs. Gus & Ethel 

4:45-Royal Ugly Dudes vs. Digger Phelps, Sal Aunese & 3 Other Guys Who Will Never See Denver 5:30-Magnum Team #357 vs. Joe & Who Are Your Friends 6:15-Painfully Huge vs. Remember It's Stepan 
Stepan 5 4:00-Lenny's Swollen Utters vs. Stick It You Muthers! 4:45-5 Guys Who Drive The OJ Schomacher 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
RESULTS 


Baseball 
Wednesday 
Northwestern 7. Notre Dame 3 
Thursday 
Butler 8, Notre Dame 7 Notre Dame 3. Butler 2 

5:30-Malicious Prostitution vs. Nothing Fancy 6:15-Mary. Cathy. Wendy & Other Dodger Scams vs. De Ia Sole 
Stepan 6 

4:00 -Anti-Slug Team vs. Big Yellow Jellybeans 
4:45 -Traveling Cowboy & His 4 Bohunks vs. Irish Whiskey Runners 5:30-The Dogs vs. Hennessey's Washington 
Bar 6:15-Team #579 vs. Tasmanian Devils 

Bookstore 9 4:00-Gauchos vs. Drinks For All My Friends 4:45-You're Genna Lose vs. Dr. D, the Swami 
& Super Dave's Last Hurrah 5:30-Expresso Pizza vs. Lethal Weapon Ill 6:15-Chunky K's Boyz vs. The Kids From Down 
The Hall 
Bookstore 1 0 
4:00 -Jake's Finest vs. Rabid Dawgs 

4:45-Team #20 vs. Loyola Marymount Without The Points 
5:30 -Sarin Hall Foodsales vs. The Deviant Hatfields 

6:15-Silent Assasins vs. 5 Guys Who'd Follow Digger to Akron 
Lyons 11 
4:00 -Segue vs. 5 Guys Without A Prayer 
4:45 -Big Mac, Pork Chop & 3 Other Hotdogs 
vs. Illinois Wouldn't Offer Us Enough 5:30-HWA vs. Raw Talent 6:15-Members of the Board vs. Big AI & 
Bibbles 
Lyons 12 4:00-Anything Otronic Featuring Flash vs. Denver Women Want To Hold Nuggets 4:45-Team #340 vs. Pants Without Zippers 
5:30 -Paradise Jam vs. 5 Guys Lou Holtz 
Norris Division 
AP 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASKETBALL National Basketball Association 

MILWAUKEE BUCKs-Placed Ricky Pierce. guard, on the injured list. Activated Tony Brown. Quard. from the injured list. 
HOCKEY National Hockey League 

NEW YORK RANGERs-Galled up Rudy Poeschek. nght wing. and Dennis Vial. defenseman. from Flint of the International Hockey League. TORONTO MAPLE LEAF&-Fired Garry Lariviere. assistant coach. 
Doesn't Know 6:15-Steve Eats the Toast vs. Team Trump 
Women's Bookstore Games lor Saturday, April 21 
Stepan 7 

4:00 -Jacks and The Bean stalk vs. Slow Motion 
Stepan 8 4:00-Untamed Lyons vs. Team #46 
Lyons 11 

4:00 -The Meta Mucrts vs. 5 Wild MBA Women 
5:00 -Hey Loppo, What's On Your Neck? vs. Juan's Angels 
6:00-Flesh Tuxedos vs. Mary Shine & 4 Other Girls That Know What a B-ball Looks Like 
Lyons 12 4:00-Denial vs. 5 Teenage Mutant Ninja 

Turtles 5:00-Happy Dyngus Day vs. Cart Clodhoppers 6:00-Doin' Monroe Proud vs. Hoosier Lawyers 
Games for Sunday, April 22 
Stepan 8 
4:00 -4 Girls Who Like to Score From Behind ... vs. 4 Dunks & a Dink 
Lyons 11 4:00-Five Girls Who Just Do It vs. Knott 

Necessarily a B-ball Team 5:00-Not Telling vs. Chickens Have Ups? 6:00-Hell From Above vs. 5 Sistahs Tired of 
These Fools Tryin' To Be Men ...Yes Ya! 

Lyons 12 4:00-Hair, Hell & the 3 Jen vs. Let 'Em Spit Blood 
5:00 -No Surrender vs. Jo-Jo's Angels 

6:00 -Heavy B & the Girts vs. A High Post. A Low Post and A Lamp Post

STUDENTS SAVE 
325 DOOEWAY NORTH • SOJTH BEND [219)277-3355 215 S. 11TH STREET • NILES 61 684-2080 
10% 

AND LarS OF TIME­Let us pack and ship your
FREE 

belongings back home for the summer, or to wherever your
TANNING 
new career leads vou! 
NOTHING IS TOO LARGE OR TOO SMALL! 
==8DXE5RLll5= 
SHIPPING + PACKING + CRATING 
MOVING & S10RAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS
.-----------,
1 • Buy 4 * sessions at the regular I MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES
I price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I PLEASE PRESEHr THIS
1and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 
COUPON AT THE l1ME OF 
STUDENT ART 


ParUclpants must be aND/SMC student. Only nat works will be accepted (drawings, design, photography, paintings) with amuimln s1ze o1 a·xa·. 
The exhibit willbe shown at the lafoPtune Student CentBI', A/JI'i/30 -May 4. 
P.HASE PRIZES, STARTING AT 1200, WILL BE AWARDBI. 
L..9et 6 FREE GET THE IDEA~ PURCHASE OR SHIPPING 
INDIANRioGEPLAZA -HOURS Dally 9-8
NEXT TO VENTURE M-F 9AM -7PM Sat. 9-6 
SAT 10AM -7PM
GRAPE RD.. MISHAWAKA 

!VISA,. 277-5555 
SUN NOON -5:30PM Between T.J. Maxx and Venture 
5818 GRAPE RD • INDIAN RIDGE PLA7A • MISHAWAKA 
Applications will be available April 19-2818 the Sbient Gover1111ent ornce, Student Ac1ivi1ies ornce, and the Laforblle Information Desk. 
Speclallhlldls to lhe AUill As8:1111111, lhe Snlte MIJS8IIJI, 1111 lhe AUnnl Ienior CbjJ tor II*dllllllln to lhe IQ'Chase prize awtl'ds. 

~0 LIBERAL/CONSERVATIVE: THEIR 
0 '0 ROOTS AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bookstore Basketball needs referees. Pay is $8 per game. Call Jeff at 1505 for more information. 
Free shuttle buses will be available today to the NO­Michigan baseball game today at Coveleski stadium. The buses will depart from main circle starting at 2 p.m. Game time is .3 p.m . 
A picnic for all St. Mary's athletes will bn held on Monday, April 23 from 6-7 p.m. It will be at the North end of Angela Athletic facility by the softball diamond. Come one, comfl all! 
"The Notre Dame Heismans-The Men and the Moments," 
a 48 minute cassette tape featuring profiles of all seven of ND's Heisman Trophy winners, is now available. The tape,· which includes rare footage from Notre Dame's Joyce Sports Research Collection, is available for $19.95 at the ND Sports Information Department on the second noor of the JACC or by mail order for $24.00. Write to the Notre Dame Sports Marketing Department, Department of Athletics, JACC, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
"1989 Notre Dame Football," a 66-minute cassette tape featuring highlights of all 13 games from the '89 Fighting Irish gridiron campaign, is now available. The tape includes player interviews and is narrated by NBC Sports personality Don Criqui. The tape is available on VIIS or Beta for $35.00 at the ND Sports Information Department or by mail for $37.50. 
~~ 
~~ 
~"~~Y ~0 
t-~~~~~ 
c§~00 

Monday, April 23 
7:30 p.m., Theodore's 
Professor John Houck Co-director Notre Dame Center for Eti1ics and Religious Values in Business 
Professor Teresa Ghilarducci Assistant Professor of Economics 
Mike Schadeck Senior, Govemment Major 
Professor James Carberry Professor of Chemical Engineering 
Professor Bernard Norling Professor of History 


designed for maximum 
Jim McCarthy

audience participation 
Senior, Government Major 
sophomore Shawn Schneider are also looking for a bid to the IC4A's in the 1,500-meter event. Burke is coming off a season­best time in last weekend's Stanford Invitational. 
The Irish have high hopes in the 800-meter event as well, in which sophomores Brian Peppard and Kevin Whelen are competing. 
Irish athletes who meet quali­fying regulations this weekend at Indianapolis will join team­mates Coyle, senior co-captain Yan Searcy (400-meter), sophomore Hyan Mihalko Uavelin). and junior John Cole (high jump), for the 1C4A Championships in May. 
Mike MacKinnon scored three points for Tequila, all of which came on dunks off of steals as Tequila's intense defense pro­pelled it into the final 128. 
Top 32 seed Multiple Scoregasms won easily over Everclear, but suffered some damage when Adam Spahn broke his middle finger late in the game. 
"We ran a lot, kind of like Loyola-Marymount," said Craig Olkiewicz of Multiple Scoregasms. "We spread the ball around so everybody got their points, but losing Adam is going to hurt. lie's a scrapper and he plays good defense, so we're going to miss him." 
Heckless Abandon, lined up Irish football players Gene McGuire, Joe Allen and Lindsay Knapp against Chunks of Frog Feed and had little difficulty 
....
posting a 21-13 triumph. 
"We shot pretty good, passed well, and we really came to­gether during the game," said Knapp. "We have a lot of beef inside, but right now Gene McGuire is in a cast (with a torn ligament in his right thumb), so we'll be able to bang the boards better once he gets the cast off." 
Nubian Pharaohs, a team consisting entirely of seniors, also won easily yesterday, dis­posing of Fergusons by a score of 21-9. Pharaohs used a bal­anced attack to coast to victory as Bobby Allen scored six points and Rod West and Steve Bynum added five apiece. 
"We were really psyched up today," said Pharaoh Carl Collins. "We got a few quick baskets, and the momentum 
...................................................................................................... justwentourway." 
page 16 


Duke and current No. 8 Texas the region, but Notre Dame Christian before dropping a 5-4 dropped a decision to decision to current No. 3 Wisconsin two weeks ago. Pepperdine. Four of the regions do not 
A victory over Ohio State on have a team in the Top 20, so Sunday would greatly enhance logic says an at-large team Notre Dame's appeal to the must be in the first 16. If Notre NCAA Tournament selection Dame fails to get the regional committee. The committee se­bid, the 17th ranking would put lects 20 teams, but at least one the Irish on the tourney bubble. team from each of eight "The poll is just a poll," regions must be selected. Bayliss said. "I don't think we'll 
The top contenders along drop unless we lose matches. I with Notre Dame in this region don't think this team will fall include Ohio State, apart in the end. We've still got Northwestern and Ball State. a chance." The Irish have beaten Ball And that's a chance few State, but will not play would have given the Irish after Norhtwestern. Ohio State and that 8-1 loss to Michigan last Northwestern have not lost in January. 
SObering Advice·;_.. 
can save alife;~ 
Think Before You Drink /~""'
BefOre You Dri ~-..· 
STEAKS 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA
PRIME RIB 

F......FrWay algid_....._..
SEAFOOD ........uy ...... 
219-259-9925 
Ha 

Happy 2llt. Birthday 
~Uch©~QS IR©bh'DS@Ilil !NlavG m 
Our Love, 
Mom, Aunt Gloria, The Cousins, Virginia, Rebecca, George and Tom, Gloria and Jeff 
Happy Birthday 

Hey Pugs!! Shall we induldge in some schnaaaaaaps tonight ? 
Happy 21st ! We want to go to the FLAYLATS ! 
Love,Susie, Tom, Kim, GiGi, and of course Jody! 

Friday, April 20, 1990
The Observer 

ND softball No. 11 seed in MCC 
Irish set out to prevent repe~at performance from Detroit 
lll 

By RICHARD MATHURIN them twice this season. Notre The Irish enter the teurna­
ment riding a six game winning Sports Writer Dame has split its two games streak, in which-the offense
with Butler. The Irish have ten­The young Notre Dame soft­tatively decided to start seem~ t'(; be coming_ alive_. The ball team continues its march sophomore pitcher Missy Linn, Irish put up 15 runs Ill a vtctory towards national prominence who has had two strong out­over Butler and 10 in another as it prepares for the MCC ings in her last starts. victory over St. Joseph's (IN). tournament at Dayton, Ohio, Freshman Staci Alford will this weekend. The team enters pitch the next game, if the Irish "We're getting better every 
as the number one seed and will advance. outing," said Boulac. "We're look to wrest the title from de­"We hit better against both starting to hit. At the beginning fending champion, Detroit, team's best pitchers," said Irish of the year, we were hitting the which has won three straight coach Brian Boulac. "Against ball well, but they were right at titles. their number two pitchers, we people. If we find some gaps, 
As a result of the number one tried to overpower the ball in­we should be okay." seed, the Irish gain a first stead of just putting it in play. round bye and will face the In the other bracket of the winner of the No.4 Dayton and "We can't afford to look tournament, No.3 Detroit will No.5 Butler match-up. The ahead, you have to take each face No.6 Evansville and No.7 Irish seem to match up better game as it comes. They both Loyola will square off against with the Flyers, having beaten gave us some trouble." No.2 St. Louis. 

NAME BRAND 

ATHLETIC AND IRtJNNlNG SHoRIS 
SUPER HEAVYWEIGHT 
SWEATSHIRTS 
Reg. $36-$48 
;;~~ 19~-2499 
Friday April 20th lOAM · 8 PM Saturday April 21st 10 AM -8 PM Sunday April 22nd 10 AM -7 PM 
Friday, April 20, 1990 
omen s tennis team 
The Observer page 17 
Sixers clinch Atlantic Division title 
Philadelphia returns to top with inspired win over Detroit



Kristy Doran That way, she'll get both a singles and a doubles in without having to play four matches in her first time back." 
After tomorrow's matches, the Irish have only one regu­lar-season game left before the NCAA tournament be­gins. Barton, who is ranked 39th nationally, is the team's best shot for the tourney, but has not competed in sev­eral weeks. Louderback said that this fact may have an effect on her chances in the NCAA's. 
"(Her absence) could have an effect on how she plays," said Louderback. "But what may hurt her more is that we usually don't get to play many Big Ten matches in April. Not playing these tough matches may hurt her." 
Doran is expected to play in the team's last match of the season next Friday at home against Butler University. 
By BARB MORAN Sports Writer 
The Notre I>anw women's tennis team will mnbark on its final road trip of the sea­son when it heads to Illinois Statn tomorrow to face Indiana State and Illinois State. 
Thn 14-H Irish will 
eompotn without the services 
of injun~d top singles player 
Tnu~y Barton. but will rein­
state Kristy Doran to her 
l'ifth-s1~ed spot. Doran has 
bnnn absent for several 
we1~ks with a wrist injury. 
Jivm1 with Barton out of 
thn picture, Irish coach Jay 
Louderback expects a mild 
wnekend for the Irish, com­
paring his tnam 's opponents 
to Northern Illinois, a team 
which Notre Dame bnat 9-0 
earlier in the season. 
"I havnn't seen either team play this year, but I don't think they're really strong," said Louderback. "They'rn both protty strong at tho top, but then they drop off and arnn't nearly as strong. They may bn a notch abovn Northnrn Illinois." 
l.ouderbaek has not ynt de­dded where the newly-re­turnod Doran will ligure into the Irish lineup. 
"I don't know what we're going to do yet," said the coach. "We're playing two matdws, so wn'll probably play hnr singles in one match and doublns in the other. 


Maria Tettenborn, a St. Mary's 
ROCCO'S

RECYCLE 
NOTRE DAME 

HAIRSTYLING FOR
I.Zi2jipt Mj.VtJ 

a planet is a terrible thing to waste I 
Aluminum eNewspapers eGlass For more information contact Paul Ruesch 277-6172, or call239-7668 
This weekend lOPMFRIDAY SATURDAY: the 10-2 at ~ DfiHCE PARTY 
GET BUSY wit/1 our

COR'1t_us ;;> 
~ lNG ~
~/P)J ~
~ ~ -~~~(M,~J11 
~ 

I£DE(jM(I'& SP!li.CIOUS *I 1 21 and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
1671 Riverside Drive CALL 233-2212 
GETACTIVE!! 
AUBUHN HILLS, Mich. (AP) -The Philadelphia 76ers clinched their first Atlantic Division championship since 1983 Thursday night as Charles Barkley scored 36 points to pace a 1 07-97 victory over the Detroit Pistons in a game marrn-d by a melee in the closing seconds. 
When the 76ers won the 
division in 1983, they went on 
to win the NBA championship. 
The triumph, Philadelphia's 
13th in its last 15 games, gave 
the 76ers a 53-28 record and 
made Sunday's finale against 
the Boston Celties meaningless. 
The 76ers, who won three of 
four from the Pistons this 
season, snapped a five-game 
losing streak on Detroit's home 
court, where they last won on 
Nov.11,1987. 
The altercation erupted with 
14.8 seconds left and involved Barkley, Detroit's Bill Laimbeer and ex-Piston Hick Mahorn. At one point, Barkley, bleeding from a cut on his left temple, went to the bench and grabbed a metal chair before he was restrained by an assistant coach. 
The melee broke out when Mahorn was fouled by Detroit's Dennis Hodman as he scored a basket. Mahorn started after Hodman, then Laimbeer and Barkley jumped in. Both benches emptied for several minutes before order was restored. 
Bucks 96, Knicks 95 
Jack Sikma made two free throws with 32 seconds left and the Milwaukee Bucks survived three last-second shots to beat the New York Knicks 96-95 Thursday night. 
The victory boosted the Bucks' lead over Indiana for sixth place in the Eastern Conference to 1 1/2 games. The sixth-place team faces Chicago 

in the first round of the points as the Chicago Bulls playoffs and No. 7 gets Atlantic completed their home season Division champion Philadelphia. with a best-ever 36-5 record by 
Jay Humphries matched his defeating the Washington season high with 29 points for Bullets 120-117 Thursday Milwaukee and Kenny Walker night. had a season-high 24 to pace The triumph assured Chicago the Knicks, who played the final of the home-court advantage in 14 1/2 minutes without center 
the first two rounds of the Patrick Ewing. Ewing was playoffs. ejected with 2:31 left in the 
Ahead 118-117, the Bulls had third quarter after picking up the ball with Washington an unsportsmanlike elbowing applying a full-court press. But foul and a technical. Scottie Pippen's pass sailed over the head of John Paxson Bulls 120, Bullets 117 and the Bullets got the ball with Michael Jordan scored :~2 
. SCYPQ seconds left. 


according to how the players
Women 
did last year, as well as the 
continued from page 20 
number of varsity or former 
varsity athletes on each squad. tion, fluctuates from the com­Returning from last year's pletely serious to the incredibly championship team, Sandy inadequate. Bothman leads Five Girls Who 
The top eight teams were Just Do It. Joining her are seeded in the four brackets in former volleyball player Rachel no particular order. Nancy Hall as well as Missy Byrne, Jill Rodrique, this year's commis­Bodensteiner and Pandora sioner, said that she and her Fecko. Five Girls opens play commiJ!!Je chose the top picks this Sunday at 4 p.m. on Lyons 
11, just doing it against Knott Necessarily a B-Ball Team. 
Other powerhouses to watch for include C.J.'s Gals, com­posed of Cathy Emigholz, a former Notre Dame varsity basketball player, as well as 
hoopster. Former Irish walk­on Molly Mahoney and volley­ball captain Kathy Cunningham lead The Meta Mucils as they try to go improve on last year's final eight finish. The team in­cludes many of the member's of PE's interhall team that took second in this year's action. C.J. Gals takes on cheap entry Buck-45 Monday at 6 p.m. on Lyons 12 while The Meta Mucils open play as they attempt to regulate 5 Wild MBA Women 
Saturday at 4p.m. 
Also starting action this Sat­
urday on the Lyons Courts, the 
5 Teenage Mutant Ninja 
Midgets will try to deny Denial 
of moving on to the second 
round and Slow Motion will try 
to pick up the speed as they 
-
prevent Jacks and the Beanstalk from climbing the tournament ladder. 
Another final four team from last year's tourney, Hoosier Lawyers, should again look to vie for the title. The squad, comprised of five law students, lost to Muffet McGraw's second place team in the semis last year. While McGraw will be no­ticeably absent this spring as she prepares for motherhood, Hoosier Lawyers will begin play in the "Hammer, Nails, 
Guys ... Tools?" Hcgional this Saturday at 6 p.m. on Lyons 12 as they try to put away Doin' Monroe Proud. 

Friday, April 20, 1990
page 18 The Observer 
Lacrosse to face Ohio Wesleyan 
Irish hope to maintain momentum following Cornell win 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team dropped a 14-8 decision to the 16th-ranked Cornell Big Red last weekend, but it will at­tempt to rebound with a road match against traditional pow­erhouse Ohio Wesleyan on Saturday afternoon at 2 p.m. 
The Irish, who fell to 7-5 on the season, performed ad­mirably and are playing their best lacrosse of the season. 
"I was pleased with three of the four quarters of action against Cornell," stated Notre Dame head coach Kevin Corrigan, "because we were playing very well -as well as we've ever played while I've been coaching here. It's en­couraging to see that we are able to play that well, but we still haven't reached what we're looking for, which is winning games like that after sixty min­utes of our best lacrosse." 
The match was the first-ever lacrosse meeting between Notre Dame and Cornell, but the up­coming meeting with Ohio Wesleyan will be the tenth in the lifetime series between the Irish and the Battling Bishops. The Irish are at the bottom end of the series, with an 0-9 record against Ohio Wesleyan dating back to 1981. 
The Battling Bishops, under the direction of Head Coach Mike Pressler, are 9-2 and were the NCAA Division III runner­up last season after posting a 13-4 record and seizing the Midwest Lacrosse Association championship. Ohio Wesleyan has 20 lettermen returning from last year's squad-four attackmen, nine midfielders, six defensemen and one goal­keeper. 
Last year, the Battling Bishops battered the Irish 18-5 at Notre Dame after posting a 17-1 win in 1988 and back-to­hack 17-5 victories in 1986 and 1987. 
Nonetheless, the Irish are firing on all cylinders at this 
By ANTHONY KING 
Sports Writer 

This weekend the Notre Dame men's golf team will travel to Ohio for the Akron Invitational tournament. The Irish will play 54 holes at the Firestone Country Club, a premiere club that hosts the World Series of Golf every year. 
"Firestone is a premiere golf club, and we don't have too many chances where we play on premiere courses," said Notre Dame head coach George Thomas. "Because of this, our 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 

Lund was beaned before Counsell laced a double to left-center to drive in two. One out later, Martinez ripped an inside curve into the leftfield corner for. a double making it 7-5. Matt Krall stepped up and 
promptly fell behind 0-2. He
battled to 2-2 and then smashed a homer to left just inside the foul pole to tie the score. Pinch-hit specialist Adam Maisano followed with a single, but the threat ended when Mike Miadich was thrown out stealing after missing three steal signs. 
Todd Murphy started the Butler eighth with a line single to left. Pitching coach Mike Gibbons came out with the look for Livorsi who undeservedly was the losing pitcher. Mike Coffey gave up a hit to the first batter he faced and when Edwin Hartwells's throw went wild into the dugout, Butler had the lead. 
" Two freshmen (Miadich and Hartwell) didn't execute, but they'll learn," commented Murphy. 
The Irish had another chance 
to pull off the victory in the 
eighth, but Jason Martinez 
struck out on a 2-2 pitch with 
the bases loaded. 

In game two, the Irish got 
back on the winning track with 
a strong pitching performance 
from Alan Walania. He threw a 
complete game, giving up 8 
hits, 2 earned runs, and 2 
walks. His ERA is now 2.97. 

" Walania and Livorsi did a 
nice job today," said Murphy. 

The game was 2-2 in the 
seventh when Irv Smith doubled 
with one out. Maisano was 
intentionally walked and Matt 
Krall singled off the pitchers
glove to load the bases. Mike point in the season and eagerly anticipate a chance to usurp nine years of dominance by the Battling Bishops. 
"This is a team much like Cornell, because they have good players and good depth, but we can beat them. We know we can," said Corrigan. "We're go­ing down there with every in­tention of beating them. This is not one of their greater teams, yet they're still winning. That's a tribute to strong discipline and coaching. But the big thing for us is probably that we know we can beat them. We're very capable of playing well against them, and we're excited to play now. 
"We're peaking at the right time, and we're playing our best lacrosse now. What we need to do is dictate the tempo of the game to them, and force them to do things that they are not comfortable with. We really M1ke. Oui~ley and the Notre Dame lacrosse team face Ohio Wesleyan'smust take them out of their Battling B1shops Saturday at 2 p.m. in Delaware, Ohio.
transition 11:~m~> " 


ND men's golf team competes in Akron Invitational over weekend 
" 
players will be enlightened as to what it is be a good player." 
The Irish will be competing against 35 teams from around the Midwest. It will be the biggest tourney the Irish will compete in this year, consisting of 54 holes of medal play on two courses. According to Irish co-captain Paul Nolta, this will be a great opportunity for the team. 
"It will be the toughest com­petition we've had since playing Oklahoma State and the other 
bi,., teams on our road trip," Paul Nolta Rotkis pinch-hit for Kurtz and The Irish will take on Big Ten hit a sharp grounder up the power Michigan today at 3 p.m. middle. The shortstop fielded at Covaleski. The Wolverines the ball to his left and threw are 20-17 and always a high to the plate. As the catcher contender for the Big Ten reached for the ball, Smith took Championship. After the game, his legs out. Although it the team will bus to Dayton to appeared the catcher didn't take on the Flyers in four have a foot on the plate, Smith contests, a team they beat four was called out. With Craig times earlier this year. Counsell at the plate, pinch-NOTE: Joe Binkiewicz should runner Mike Rooney scored the be able to return from his ankle said Nolta. "A Jot of the good into the starting five, posting a small teams from the Midwest 79.4 stroke average. 
and Oklahoma will be there, so it really will be a good tourney." 
Nolta and senior co-captain Pat Mohan will lead the Irish, after coming off a season-best finish of third at the Indianapolis lntercollegiates. Mohan is averaging 76.88 strokes this year, a career low. He is also coming off a career tying low round of 71 at Indianapolis. Freshman Chris Dayton, after sitting out last 
IAMERICAN 
4/CANcER
'SOCIETY~ 

s11e~m~~e~s~t~er~~ha~s~eiaiirniiieilidillhiiiis-wiiailylll••••••••••••
I r ...,. . 1M .... .,., 
1 ...1· 
1 
z"'oO 
~ _ ~d; 
li 
;JH!i 
f, ~ 

You're missing lunch ..• This Weekend Both Nights-LIVE..• 
©O~fJfJ ~!J'~©ik~®IJil 
last chance, seniors start celebrating graduation!!! 
.~w~in~n~i!n~g~r~u~n1!a~s~t~h~e~n:e:x~t~p~i:tc~h~~~~·n[ju~r1y~f~o~r~n~e:xt~w:e:ek:e:n:d~'s:_:se:r:ie:s:....!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
went to the backstop. with Detroit. 
All Junior 
Accounting & Finance Majors 
Arthur Andersen presents: 
Preparing for the Fall 
Interviewing Process 
Tuesday, Apri I 24, 1990 5:00PM Monogram Room Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 
Dress is Casual Pizza & Refreshments to Follow 
.___________________________________________________. 

~ay, April20, 1990 The Observer page 19 

7Firow down that-stl"'"oi'J9 box of" I!II blow your-heqd oH!.. Well, 
:!'// wing you fo.,-sure!.. oi0.y, ma.ybe 1:11 ju.st climb t.Ap ftler"" a.nd. 
~ille y~ a.1oodJJutch rub. 

.. 
'' ,, I Semi-desperadoes
.. , 4."n ( 


CAMPUS 

Friday 
7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Do the Right Thing," An­nenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. Admission. 
8 p.m. Chicago City Limits. Improvisational Theatre Ensemble. ()'Laughlin Auditorium. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College Performing Arts Series. 
Saturday 11 ~.m. -1 :30 p.m. Fisher Hall Regatta and Picnic at St. Mary s Lake aeross from Columbia Hall. 
2 p.m. Faeulty Cello Recital, Karen Buranskas. Annen­berg Auditorium. Sponsored by Dept. of Music. 
7;30 P·':"· Film, "Do the Hight Thing," Annenberg Audi­tonum. Sponsored by NO Communication and Theatre. Admission. 
8 p.m. Notre Dame Chorale and Orchestra, "Elijah," eonducted by Carl Starn. Washington Hall. Admission. 
9;45 P·':"· Film, "Do the Right Thing," Annenberg Audi­tonum. Sponsored by NO Communication and Theatre. Admission. 
Sunday 
12 p.m.-7 p.m. St. Ed's Charity Carnival 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Saturday 
4 p.m. Leeturn, "An Arab American Agenda for the 90's," James Zogby, Executive Director for the Arab Arneriean Institute. Galvin Life Science Auditorium. Sponsored by the Arab American Club of Michiana and the Department of Anthropology. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Broiled Serod Quiche Lorraine Chili-Cheese Maearoni Beef Fajitas 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
THE FAR SIDE 
43 Snakebird 46 Long-legged rails 47 Radio dials 46 Portable chairs 51 -to(should) 54 Therefore 55 Oracle 56 A cruise stop: Abbr. 57 Coronado's 
quest 58 Criticize severely 
JAY HOSLER 

ACROSS 1 Viral disease, for 
short 4 Prow of a ship 8 White water 
14 Author Yutang 15 "Rosamond" composer 16 Indulged in cabotinage 11 Jennings and Koppel work here 18 Indian weight unit 19 Venomous reptiles 20 Site of famed Copacabana Beach 23 Lou Grant's wife 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
24 Accented syllable in poetry 25 Prehistoric implement 
29 Danish commun1ty near Santa Ynez, Calif. 
31 Finery 33 --dixit 34 Bulldog, e.g. 35 Organic 
compounds 38lnclines 39 Tenants 42 Lobster's sensory 
appendage 44 Singer Manchester 45 Entomologists subjects 

CROSSWORD 
49 Hit-show signs 
50 Fidelity, old style 
52 Faithful 53 Philadelphia 
locale of a U.S. Navy Yard 56 Warhol's forte 59 Ruined 60 New Zealand parrot 61 Hue at Syracuse U 62 Titanic 63 White-tailed sea eagle 64 Some apart­ments, lor short 65 Tyrant of yore 66 Mil. induction agency 
DOWN 
1 Emergency signals 
.:.c.+:-+:=,+=-1 11 Adherent: Suffix 12 German article 
GARY LARSON 
2 Psychic energy 3 Release, as a 
certain spring 4 "Pig out" 5 Hector and Paris 6 Elaborate, with 
"upon" 7 Wherewithal 8 Amended 9 Arabic 
commander 10 Famed Mexican hot spot? 

13 Student org. active 32 Liquid measures 
in the 1960's 21 Where Dreyfus 
was imprisoned 
22 Irish Free State 
26 Lamb of "Pork" 
fame 27 Columbia's mascot 28 Absorbs solar emissions 30 ProJections on a cathedral 
SPELUNKER 

35 End of an O'Neill title 
36--do-well 
37 Nobel Institute locale 
40 Sights at Beverly Hills 
41 Noted puppeteer 
42 Arousing compassion 
~ -­

Sports
page 20 

ND baseball splits pair with Butler 
University of Michigan, Dayton up next for Irish squad 
By MIKE KAMRADT Sports Writer  and get back to basics. It's not just the team though," Murphy  e"rrors Mee,  by he  sure-handed Cory pulled a "Mitch  
continued.  "  I've struggled  as  Williams"  and  picked  the  
In  yesterday's Observer,  a  much  as  they have. I haven't  runner off at second. The Irish  
writer  who  shall  remain  been doing the job I'm capable  scored  one  in the third  on  a  
nameless called Butler one of the weak sisters of the MCC.  of." The Bulldogs jumped on the  Craig Counsell sacrifice fly and made it 7-2 on a Jason  
Well,  that Butler  team  acted  Irish early and often in the first  Martinez grounder in the fifth.  
more  like  a  domineering  game.  Freshman  left-bander  Meanwhile, Tony Livorsi had  
mother yesterday, taking an 8­ Chad  Hartvigston  retired  the  come on in the fourth and shut  
7 win  over  the Irish baseball  first two batters he faced, but  the Bulldogs down by spotting  
team in extra innings. They didn't go away in the second  committed one of pitching's deadly sins by giving up a two­ the ball well and using his good curve extensively to keep Butler  
game either, giving the Irish  out  walk.  Catcher  Joe  Latty  off-balance.  In  the  sixth,  
fits  once  again  before falling  made him pay as he blasted a  Butler's Coffee just missed his  
3-2 because of a  wild pitch in  home run to left. After another  second  homer  of  the  day,  
the bottom of the seventh.  single,  Mike  Coss  booted  an  sending  Bob  Kurtz  to  the  
The last few days have been  easy  grounder  to  keep  the  warning track to haul it in. In  
pretty dismal for the Irish. On  inning alive.  four  innings,  Livorsi gave  up  
Wednesday,  the  Irish  were  "  We sent Coss home during  four  hits,  no  walks, and  one  
leading Northwestern 3-0 in the  the  game,"  said  Murphy."  unearned run.  
sixth  when  a  near  bench­ Mentally, he's a mess. He needs  The  Irish  made  a  great  
clearing brawl broke out. The  to  get  his  thoughts together  comeback, a trademark in the  
incident seemed to put a spell  and come back."  Murphy years, in the seventh to  
on the Irish while lighting a fire  Butler tallied four more times  tie the game at 7. Bobby Kurtz  
under the Wildcats. They scored one in the seventh, two in the eighth, and then roughed up Mike Coffey for four in the tenth on the way to a 7-3 win. " Every team that plays 60 games is going to have a time like this," said Irish head coach Pat Murphy." We're struggling. We're trying too hard. We're searching for answers. Now is  in the inning to extend the lead to 6-0. Matt Krall did a nice job preventing further damage by blocking numerous pitches. Chris Michalak came on to pitch the second. After one out, Raphael Coffee almost took out the new Band Building with a mammoth home run and Butler led 7-0. Michalak kept the Irish out of a further hole in the  started things with a walk. " He (Kurtz) did a good job," Murphy said." lie's had to overcome some injuries but he's a competitor and has a good knowledge of the game. We need his type of aggressiveness." see BASEBALL I page 18 play a key Dayton this weekend.  
the time to keep our composure  third when, following two rare  
66 teams open play as women begin Bookstore tourney action  By KEN TYSIAC Associate Sports Editor  
By CHRIS COONEY Assistant Sports Editor  Several high seeds advanced yesterday as the round of 256  
got  underway  in  Bookstore  
While the men's tournament  Basketball  XIX  yesterday  on  
has been raging for weeks, women's bookstore basketball  campus. Sweet  Scotty  P. and  the  
action is just getting under way. Although a few teams played preliminary rounds ear­lier this week, the bulk of the games will begin this Saturday and Sunday. The 66 teams entered is a far  Dwarfs, Tequila White Lightning and Multiple Scoregasms all won with rela­tive ease on a day when blus­tery conditions made good in­side play crucial. Former Notre Dame center  
..  cry from the over 700 that will participate in the men's cham­pionship, yet competition in the women's should be just as in­tense and varied. With eight seeded teams topping the list of contenders, the quality of play, and of creativity in name selec­see WOMEN I page 17  The Observer I Andrew McCloskey Some of the Bookstore Basketball teams moved into the round of 128 Thursday , including Nubian Pharoahs, Sweet Scotty P., and Scoregasms.  Scott Paddock made his Bookstore debut for Sweet Scotty P. after missing his team's first game of the tour­nament Tuesday. Paddock took his 6-9 frame outside and pumped up some long jump shots in a 21-14 victory over Five Guys From Zahm Who Can't Win. "It's good to have Paddock  

Friday, April 20, 1990 

back," said Marty Falkenberg of Sweet Scotty P. "We want to get him inside a little more, but he showed us a lot with his out­side shooting. Sure, he only went three for 10, but they were good shots. We didn't know he had that much range." 
Jim McClellan of Five Guys Prom Zahm seemed impressed by Paddock's versatility. 
"He stayed outside and took a lot of outside shots, and he handled the ball pretty well. We only stole it from him a couple of times. We managed to stay within 11-8 at halftime. but they came out and hit the first couple shots (in the second halO and that did it," McClellan said. 
Tequila White Lightning had 
little  trouble  against  You're  
Done  in  a  21-8  win.  Jake  
see MEN I page 15  

Bayliss' leadership propels men's tennis into spotlight 
It was January of 1989 and Notre Dame men's ten­nis coach Bob Bayliss was just glad Michigan was playing in Eck Pavilion. 
The final score didn't mat­ter -8-1 in favor of the 

IWolverines for those con­cerned with the particulars. These were the matches 
Greg Guffey

Bayliss wanted on the sched­ule, matches against top op­Sports Editor ponents on Notre Dame's --------­home court. 
"It wasn't really a priority for them to put Notre Dame on the schedule," Bayliss recalled. "It really helped us to play the toughest schedule possible. My feeling is you have to shoot for the high goals and accept what you get." 
Bayliss knew the wins would come later after the Irish had played several of the opponents on that tough schedule. You can't learn to swim and win the gold medal in backstroke the same day. 
After more than a year of playing that grueling schedule, the Irish played at Michigan Tuesday afternoon and came away with a dominating 6-0 victory. That was the first win over the Wolverines in 29 seasons. 
But the key to understanding how far the tennis program has come is that the Irish expected to win in such convincing fashion. 
"We did expect to win," Bayliss said. "We just went in and took care of business. This is kind of a down year for Michigan, but they'll be back." 
The tough schedule has paid dividends for Notre Dame, which is ranked 17th in the latest poll. The · Irish will get another tough test when Ohio State 
visits for a 1 p.m. match Sunday. 
The road to the rankings was over a year in the making for Bayliss and the Irish. It began with the 1989 meeting with Michigan and then continued through a West Coast roadtrip in which they played well against some of the top teams in the country, including USC. 
"It was exciting to be competing on the same court with those teams," Bayliss said. "We were never really in a position to win. It was just fun to be out tbere." 
The next stage of the Irish climb was the Naval Academy Invite in September, where several Notre Dame players made impressive showings. 
Then USC came to Notre Dame for an October match, and the perennially strong Trojans barely escaped with a 5-4 win. That match gave Notre Dame the confidence that it could compete with the top teams in the nation. 
Said Bayliss, "After the match I thought, 'This is great. We were there with a traditional power.' We were really that close." 
The Irish lost 6-3 to another powerhouse in Georgia with Notre Dame No. 1 singles player David DiLucia downing AI Parker, ranked first in nation at the time of the match. 
Notre Dame then got big victories over West Virginia, Ball State and Minnesota. "That's when I believed we had the makings of a top 25 team," Bayliss said. 
The Irish were ranked 22nd in the next poll and traveled to Corpus Christi, Tex., for possibly their biggest weekend of the spring. They beat Oklahoma, 
see TENNIS I page 16 


