
VOL. XXIII NO. 1 FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Soviet Union calls out reserves to quell riots 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Defense Ministry called up reserve troops Thursday to help 29,000 soldiers quell ethnic violence in the Caucasus that has killed at least 66 people and wounded more than 220. 
Defense Minister Dmitri Ya­zov said the additional troops compared to Saturday an were necessary to maintain Sunday is now decreasing, in order and possibly enforce a fact almost none. However, the curfnw-a measure authorities mood among a certain part of in the republic of Azerbaijan the ~?pulation is still very havn refused to impose despite tense. reports of vicious attacks by In his first public comments Azerbaijani extremists on since the Baku riots, President Armenian residents. Mikhail Gorbachev defended the 
At least 10,500 Armenians Kremlin's decision Monday to n~portedly have been evacuated declare a state of emergency from the Azerbaijani capital of but said the ethnic problems Baku, whnre rampaging Azer­date back centuries. baijani mobs began the violence "The problems, which have 
Saturday. been accumulating for tens, no, 
Extremists have obtained for hundreds of years, have heavy weaponry, including heli­erupted and acquired the t;har­copters. tanks and ground-to­acter we are now confronted ground missiles in what Inte­with in the Baltics, Moldavia rior Minster Vadim Bakatin on and now in such forms this in­Thursday called a "rivil war." terethnic strife is going on in 
Soviet Premier Nikolai Transcaucasia, in Azerbaijan Hyzhkov told ABC-TV's "Prime and Armenia." he told a meet-Time Live" early Friday that "thf~ number of people killed as 
see USSR I page 4 

APphoto 
Soviet military police arrest an Azerbaidjani Nationalist in the Hanlar District of Azads settlement after the nationalists' attempt to capture the settlement was thwarted . 
Defendants acquitted of child molestation in landmark trial 
LOS ANGELES (AP) Preschool operators Raymond Buckey and. his mother were acquitted Thursday of 52 child molestation charges in the na­tion's longest and. costliest criminal trial, inciting outrage among parents of youngsters in the case. 
Jurors deadlocked on 12 sex abuse counts against Buckey and a single conspiracy count against him and his 63-year-old mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey. Superior Court Judge William Pounders declared a mistrial on those counts and dismissed the deadlocked con­spiracy charge against Mrs. 
Buckey. He set a Jan. 31 hear­ing to determine whether the 13 unresolved counts will be dis­missed against Buckey. 
Announcement of the inno­cent verdicts brought gasps and sobs in the packed court­room. 
Buckey, 31, who spent nearly five years in jail because of the charges, and his mother, who was jailed for almost two years, cried as the verdicts were read. 
"I've gone through hell and now we've lost everything," Mrs. Buckey said outside court. "My concern was for my son and what they've done to him ... 
because my son would never harm a child.'' 
"I feel wonderful," said Charles Buckey, father of Ray­mond and husband of Mrs. Buckey. Raymond Buckey avoided reporters and slipped out the courthouse with his lawyer. 
About an hour after the ver­dicts were announced, parent Jackie McGauley said: ''I'm still in shock.... When I first heard it, I didn't believe it. I thought someone had made a mistake." 
Parent Mary Mae Cioffi added: "I am really disap­pointed. The anger is beginning to rise. We have programs all 
Kurt's wish to play with ND band granted 
BY DEBBIE CHARLESWORTH accent writer  
Dreams really do true. Kurt Weiss, a school sophomore  come high from  

Pittsburgh, Pa., who has osteogenic sarcoma, bone cancer, received his wish to play with the Notre Dame marching band at the Orange Bowl from the Western Pennslyvania chapter of the Make-A-Wish Foundation. Kurt wished to play with the Notre Dame marching band with a new saxophone and to meet Monk Malloy. 
Kurt chose this wish for several reasons. His goal is to attend Notre Dame and play in the band after graduating from high school. Kurt knows Notre Dame well. His older sister, Gretchen, is a 1988 graduate and played the clarinet in the marching band. 
see WEISS I page 8 


over the country that tell chil­dren to run and tell when somebody hurts them, and our children told. Some of them spent 35 days on the stand and they get a 'not guilty.' It shows 
that our justice system needs a revamp for kids." 
"I know my children were molested. I had my daughter sleep between my husband and I for a whole year because she was so afraid somebody would come and get her, that they would kill her, because she told," she said. 
The investigation of alleged mass molestation at the subur­ban McMartin Pre-School ig­nited a nationwide wave of worry about child abuse when it came to light in 1983. It pro­duced widespread fear among working parents that their children might be at risk at school. 
The trial lasted nearly three years and cost $15 million, making it the longest and most expensive criminal proceeding in U.S. history. 
"I was not surprised by the verdicts," the judge said at a news conference afterward. "I would not have been surprised at any decision the jury made.'' 
see TRIAL I page 6 
N D professor named Chile's finance minister 
By LIZ PANZICA 
Business Editor 
A professor of economics at Notre Dame, Alejandro Foxley, has been named finance minister in Chile's new civilian government. 
Foxley was selected for the position by Christian Democrat Patricio Aylwin. Aylwin won the presidency in elections on December 14. His government is expected to be sworn in during mid-March. 
Foxley will be responsible for decisions concerning Chile's economy, as finance minister is the main economic position in the new Chilean government. 
According to Manuel Gar­reton, a senior fellow at the Institute For International Peace Studies and a visiting professor of sociology, the biggest challenge Foxley will face is managing the 1990 budget which already will have been passed into law by Pinochet before the new gov­ernment takes office. 
"The crucial point is to make adjustments in the budget law," Garreton said. He said Pinochet, "made the budget for 1990 law. Their hands are tied; it gives very little leverage to the new government." 
Garreton said that Foxley does not face an economic crisis in Chile and that the new government, "will not be forced to have an emergency economic plan." 
Pinochet surrendered the presidency he has held for the last 16 years, but still controls the nation's army. Other branches of the military are not in his control. Aylwin has asked for Pinochet's resignation along with that of the commander of the marine forces. He has not called for the resignations of all military 
see FOXLEY I page 4 


page 2 The Observer Friday, January 19, 1990 

INDIANA 

Aformer Lake County sheriff's officer was arrested for alleged witness tampering, a violation of pre-trial release terms. after the death or a deputy slated to testify against him, federal authorities said Thursday. Michael Mokol, 48, now a sheriff's corporal, was arrested Wednesday night at his Merrillville home by agents of the U.S. Treasury Department's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, said James Mesterharm. a spokesman for U.S. Attorney James Hichmond. 
MARKET UPDATE 

Volume in shares 
178.60 Million 
0 .79 
Dow Jones Industrials 2666.38 0 7.25 Precious Metals Gold \7 $2.50 to $411.20/ oz. Silver{} 6.8¢ to $5.24 I oz. 
NVSE Index 

187.07 0 .21 S&P Composite 
388.78 
Source: AP 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Arrival of baby marks end of uncle's reign 
Ah, the miracle of birth. No, Mom, I don't have any surprises for you, I'm just expressing won­der at the birth of my John O'Brien 
first niece, Ashley. Assistant News Editor 
The pregnancy was a hot topic around the O'Brien household almost from the mo­ment of conception. 
For the past nine months, our family conversations centered around such pressmg questions as, "Is Diane showing yet?" or "How much do you wanna bet that Vince pukes in the delivery room?" 
Everybody in the family seemed to lind this baby thing exciting, except, of course, me. 
The prospect of having a little blob run­ning around the house during family dinners signified only one thing to me: the end of my reign as "baby of the family." 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Friday, January 19. Lines show high temperatures. 
50 
FRONTS: 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © ~ ~ [IT] ~ 0 "
' 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press Graph1csNet 
Yesterday's high: 43 Yesterday's low: 38 
Forecast: 

High today in the 30s or lower 40s. Snow likely tonight possibly becom­ing mixed with freezing rain and sleet. Low tonight ranging from 30 to 
40. Rain or freezing rain expected Saturday will change to all rain by late morning. High Saturday will range from the 40s to lower 50s . 
Even though I'm a college sophomore and a big time journalist at The Observer. my mom insists on introducing me as her "baby." This is generally embarrassing because most people equate "baby of the family" with "spoiled brat" which is exactly correct. Any little brat who becomes the baby of the O'Brien family will steal my thunder. 
So, while I awaited the coming of this little demon with anguish, I was a little caught up in the excitement. I even partici­pated in the baby pool my dad started. Put in two bucks and predict the date of birth and sex of the little tyke and you might win $15. 
Not even the entrance of a new life into the world was unstained by gambling, but then again 15 bucks is 15 bucks. I became alarmed wlwn my brother entered the pool. Sounds like Pete Hose bPtting on his own games, huh? 
Finally, the day came. 

My sister-in-law was nine days late when my mom woke me at 4 a.m. to call me Uncle John. She was really excited, but I was more concPrned with why, if the kid was already nine days late, couldn't it wait until say, noon, aftPr I had showered and eaten breakfast? 
Then came time to go to the hospital and see the little bugger. They said she was a beautiful baby, but they say that about every baby, most of which look like potatoes. 
But Ashley turned out pretty well. She was pretty cute for a 10-pound, 7-ounce potato. My sister-in-law called the labor "easy." Somehow, spending four hours trying to pass something the size of watermelon sounds neither easy nor fun to me. I pity my future wili1. 
In the end, my new niece didn't turn out so had and I guess it was about time that I passed .on the reign of baby of the family to her. 
So, Ashley, welcome to the family. You've got a tough act to follow, but stick with Unde John and you'll do all right. 

PO. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7 4 71  
Friday's Staff  
News Tim O'Keefe Sandra Wiegand  Production Chris Labaree Joe Zadrozny Cris Oritz  Sports Steve Megargee  
Accent Colleen Cronin Terri Walsh CrisOrtiz  Viewpoint Janice O'Leary Systems  lr1sh Extra Theresa Kelly Melissa Gorham Cris Ortiz  
Ad Design  Gilbert Gomez  Alison Cocks  

Bernard BrenninkmeyerShelia Jones Quinn Satepauhoodle J8aAile Naylor Shannon Roach 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fridav except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
OF INTEREST 
Volunteer tutors are needed for elementary and Of Interests may be submitted to The Observer high school Native American students on Tuesdays, from office, third floor LaFortune Student center, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 6 to 7 p.m. Jan. 30 through April 24 in Madeleva Hall, or Interests are for free, one-time events of' genPral Saint Mary's. An orientation meeting will be held Jan. 22, interest. from 6 to 7 p.m. in Room 328 Madeleva. If unable to make the meeting, call Sue Bryant at 284-4126 or 284­4485. 
WORLD Hundreds of illegal Central American immi-The arrest of former President ~f Ecu~dor grants are being released from detention centers in south Leon Febres Cordero was ordered by the Supreme Court Texas because they are running out of space, say immi-on Thursday. Febres is accused of embezzling public gration officials. Immigration attorneys had speculatl~d funds in a case arising from charges against his son-in­that detainees were being released because the govern-law. The court order was provisional. It said Febres ment expected an influx of refugees from war-torn El Cordero must be held in prison in ()uito but also said the Salvador. But Immigration and Naturalization Service decision can be appnaled. The court also ratified an ar-Commissioner Gene McNary said Thursday at a Washing-rest order against Miguel Orellana, Febrns Cordero's son-ton, D.C., news conference that "there is no connection in-law and his private secretary while lw was president. between anyone who is released and any anticipation of a need for space because of the possible influx of Central Amerieans." 
NATIONAL 

An air collision killing one person and injuring Nine hours of discount calling will be otTered by another oceurred when an Eastern Airlines jet landing in the AT&T long-distance network on ValentirHl's Day to Atlanta sheared off the top of a twin-engine aircraft that make amends for recent problems in long-distance call­touched down just before it Thursday evening. The casu­ing. A major consumer group said Thursday it will ask alties had been aboard the smaller plane, officials said. the Federal Communications Commission to investigate The 7:10 p.m. collision between the Eastern Boeing 727 this week's outage on the long-distance network to see if and a Beechcraft King Air 100 occurred on a runway at Monday's problems were caused by AT&T cutting corners Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport. officials said. to maximize profits under a new incentive-based regula­No one was injured aboard the jetliner, said airport tory plan. spokesman John Braden. 
Benefits of expensive asbestos removal pro­The USS Iowa and New Jersey, two of the 
grams in schools and other buildings were questioned byNavy's four battleships, may be mothballed as a cost-cut­researchers Thursday, who said there is little evidenc1!
ting maneuver in the next Pentagon budget, Defense De­that low-level exposure in such circumstances is a health partment sources said Thursday. All four warships have hazard. The report in Seienee magazine said that whilebecome targets of budget-cutters on Capitol Hill and most of the health eoncerns from asbestos stem fromelsewhere, but Navy brass -and the lawmakers from studies involving past oecupational exposure, there is no 
some states where the ships were to be based -have 
data to show similar risks to individuals exposed to air­been fighting to retain the decades-old vessels. 
borne asbestos among the general public. 



Friday, January 19, 1990 
Arson not cause of fire at St. Michael's 
By BRADLEY GALKO News Writer 
Arson has been ruled out as a possible cause of the Saint Michael's Laundry fire that oc­curred in the early morning hours of November 16. 
Assistant Vice-President for Business Affairs James Lyphout said that fire investigators have also ruled out any electrical cause of the blaze. 
"They're still looking at some chemicals," said Lyphout, "they think the cause is some kind of chemical reaction or spontaneous combustion." 
l.yphout said he was "a little surprised" at the length of time required to determine the cause of the fire, but he said that the dday could be caused in part by the possibility of an indeter­minable cause. "It is possible," he said, "there may never be a definitive cause." 
To accommodate students' increased demand for washers 
is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Viewpoint Copy Editor 
Applicants for this 2.,3 afternoon per week, paid position should possess strong English skills. 
For further information, contact Dave Bruner at 239-5303 or 277-5843 



Applications are now being accepted for the position of 
Editor-in-Chief 1990-1991 
Anyone interested in applying must submit a resume and a personal statement of no more than five pages to Chris Donnelly. Further information is available from Chris Donnelly at The Observer. 
Applications are due by 5 p.m., Friday, January 26, 1990. 
and dryers on campus, the Uni­versity has added 12 of each in Rockne Memorial, 20 of each in the former band room in the back of Washington Hall, and 9 washers and 8 dryers each to Grace and Flanner Towers. 
The number of machines on campus is not the only thing that has increased since the Saint Michael's fire, so has the price of doing laundry. A single wash cycle used to cost 85 cents and a dryer cycle 35 cents. They now cost one dollar and 50 cents, respectively. 
Lyphout said this price in­crease is not a result of the in­creased demand for the ma­chines caused by the fire. "That's just a price increase that would have happened any­way," he said. 
Robert Watkins, director of materials and management purchasing, was unable to be reached for comment on the price increase. 
The Observer page 3 
Af> Photo

Meatless counter 
Romanians wait for meat to arrive at a general store in central Bucharest. Food supplies have improved, but due to hoarding of available goods, authorities have expressed concern that essential items would run out. 
Former Bulgarian leader arrested 
SOFIA, Bulgaria (AP) ­Former leader Todor Zhivkov was put under house arrest and charged with abuse of power and fomenting ethnic unrest during his 34-year reign, the government-run news agency BTA reported Thursday. 
The state agency also said opposition talks with the ruling Communists broke down Thursday over access to Bul­garia's broadcasting networks. 
The prosecutor-general's of­fice issued a warrant for the deposed dictator, who was top­pled in a November uprising, charging Zhivkov with malfea­sance in office, inciting ethnic hostility and misuse of state property. 
The 78-year-old Stalinist was not jailed, according to BTA. but was instead put under guard at an l)ndisclosed loca­tion. 
That makes him the second East Bloc leader now under of­ficial investigation for abuses disclosed by the upheavals that have convulsed Eastern Europe. Former East German party leader Erich Honecker, now hospitalized, faces a charge of high treason. 
The charges against Zhivkov indicate he is being personally blamed by his reformist Com­munist successors for the na­tion's severe ethnic and eco­nomic problems. 
Zhivkov was the author of so­called "Bulgarization," the per­secution and forced assimila­tion of the nation's 1.5 million ethnic Turks and other native Bulgarian Muslims, known as Pomaks. 
After his ouster, Zhivkov was accused of corruption when it was revealed he had maintained at least 30 holiday and hunting retreats throughout this poor Balkan nation. 
Zhivkov's often-violent forced assimilation policy banned Moslem religious practices and required ethnic Turks and Moslems to forsake their own names and take Bulgarian ones. 
More than 300,000 ethnic Turks emigrated to Turkey to escape the harsh Bulgarization campaign, but about 80,000 later returned, citing lack of jobs and housing in Turkey. 
The talks with the reformist government of party chief Petar Mladenov have foundered over the government's refusal to al­low the opposition to use the electronic media to spread its 
ND/SMC SKI CLUB PRESENTS: 

WINTER PARK/MARY JANE, CO Sat. March I 0 -Sun. March 18 
$417 -transportation via Amtrak Train $287 -without transportation 
* 6 nights lodging * 5 day or 6 day lift ticke 
* Hot Tubs * Group Party Infonnational Meeting: Mon. I Jan. 22 8:00pm Nieuwland Science Bldg. nn 118 
Questions-Call: Mike 3662 
Mary Beth 2962 Klmbo 284-4342 
democratic message through­out this mostly rural nation in advance of promised national elections. 
"We are left with the impres­sion that the delegation of the official authorities has no in­tention to carry (out) serious negotiations," said the Union of Democratic Forces, the um­brella grouping of opposition organizations, according to a statement carried by BTA 
Western diplomats said if the opposition and government li­aison groups come to agree­ment on their differences, an­other negotiating session is likely Jan. 22. 
Earlier this week, the Com­munist Party agreed to allow the opposition to publish its own newspaper and promised it office space. 
Faced with the plummeting fortunes of the Communist Party in other Eastern Euro­pean states, Bulgaria's Com­munists appear to be trying to preserve as much power as possible, and their total control of radio and television is key to that power. 
The government-run media continues to attack opposition leaders in a clear attempt to discredit them with any poten­tial electorate. 
page 4 
USSR 
continued from page 1 
mg m Moscow. 
"We are now busy trying to halt this process, to prevent it from going deeper and getting more acute," Gorbachev said in comments broadcast on state radio. "We have resorted to the use of force against criminals, against this vandalism." 

It was not clear whether the Kremlin intended to impose the curfew in Baku and other parts of Azerbaijan, or if Yazov ex­pected the Azerbaijani authori~ ties to do it. 
Members of the Azerbaijani People's Front said Thursday 

they had warned Moscow that if a curfew or martial law were imposed on Baku they would launch a general strike in the strategic oil center. 
On Wednesday. the 29,000 troops already in Azerbaijan and the republic of Armenia were authorized to shoot if necessary to stop the bitter fighting in the hills around the disputed territory of Nagorno­Karabakh, according to Soviet media. 
Foreign reporters were 
barred from travel to the re­publics. 

In Nagorno-Karabakh, a largely Armenian enelave inside Azerbaijan, officials expanded an existing curfew by two hours Thursday, said Tass, the oiTicial Soviet news agency. 
The military commandant in Nagorno-Karabakh also ordered unregistered organiza­tions dissolved, Tass said. 
Ycvgeny Primakov, a top­ranking Soviet legislator, con­fronted a mass anti-govern­ment d1~monstration outside the Azerbaijani Communist Party headquarters in Baku and said the riots had to stop. The demonstrators called for th1~ liquidation of Soviet power in Azerbaijan and the resignation of the Azerbaijani leadership, reported lnterfax, a news ser­vicn of Hadio Moscow. 
Soviet authorities sent 5,000 

army troops into Azerbaijan Tuesday. lnterfax said Thurs­day there are also 24,000 Inte­rior Ministry troops in the two southern republics 1.250 miles southeast of Moscow. 
Extrmnists in Azerbaijan have blockaded highways. interrupt­ing the movement of troops, and halted 136 freight trains. ineluding three carrying mili­tary equiprmmt. lnterfax said. 

Yerevan, tlw Armenian capi­tal. was n~ported to be running out of fuel because of thn Azer­baijani blockade. Armenians countered with a blockade of Nakhichevan. an Azerbaijani 1mclave inside Armenia. Inter­fax said. 
Yazov said more troops were needed because the area was so large and "the people in liter­ally all towns and all populated areas have been roused by these events," according to Ha­dio Moscow. 
Yazov did not specify how 
The Observer 

many reserve soldiers had been called up. He said men were be­ing called up from "neighboring regions," but did not specify. Tass said the men had recently completed their compulsory military service. 
Yazov said he understood re­servists ·would be unhappy about his move but emphasized that they are not going with "the task of killing, shooting, going onto some offensive. It is principally to protect public order." 
He said the reservist call-up was needed in part because re­eent cuts under Gorbachev's plan .to slash the nation's armed forces by 500,000 men have depleted the forces that can be moved to the Caucasus. 
Extremists besieged the Inte­rior Ministry department in the town of Masali for two hours, lnterfax reported. 
"Hundreds of trucks with Armenian militants patrol the border" with the Lachin and Kubaltin regions of Azerbaijan, lnterfax said, and troops have been reinforced. 
lnterfax also said thousands also rallied in Nakhichevan on Wednesday to protest plans to rebuild border defenses and string barbed wire along the middle of the Araks Hiver, the border with Iran. 
Hundreds of Azerbaijanis have crossed the river illegally in recent weeks to visit relatives and demand removal of the border barriers. 
Detailing the difficulties fac­ing units sent to the Caucasus, Hadio Moscow said one trans­port plane arriving with troops 
had been immediately seized by Armenians fleeing the fighting who demanded to be flown to safety. 
Foxley 
continued from page 1 
commanders, Garreton said. 

Pinochet's power will be greatly reduced even if he does not resign, "because of the democratic legitimacy of the new government," Garreton added. 
Pinochet originally gained power in 1973 by overthrowing Salvad6r Allende Gossens, a socialist, in a U.S. military­sponsored coup. 
Aylwin's new government is an alliance with 16 other parties, including the large socialist party. Garreton said the alliance should remain strong , "because of the strain put on it by the law to force it to unify." The hope of retaining power will be an incentive to stay unified, Garreton said. 
Previously Foxley served as vice president of the Christian Democratic Party, and has been a member of the faculty since 1982. According to a press release, Foxley frequently traveled between South Bend and Santiago and kept in close contact with the country. Foxley taught at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of California at Berkeley, and Oxford University before coming to Notre Dame. Currently he serves as an executive committee member of the International Economi~ Association and as the president of the Corporation for Latin American Research. 

WELCOME BACK WEEKEND 
DANCE PARTY 
1:-.tiT:\TED BUT NEVER DUPLICATED 
Friday: Spinning by John Yang .and Joe Watson Saturday: Mike Jennings and Johnny B. are on the cut 
10 PM-2AM BOTH NIGHTS AT 


AP Photo 
A young Chilean girl waves a flag from a car window after the govern­ment recognized the victory of opposition candidate Patricio Aylwin, who will take office March 11, as the first democratic president in 19 years. 

------~­
. . "" ... 1 
Friday, January 19, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Space shuttle returns after rescue mission 
SPACE CENTER, Houston "It's nice, it's sunny. We've (API -Columbia headed for a got a few high clouds," said pre-dawn landing Friday to end Nancy Lovato, a NASA a 10-day shuttle mission in spokeswoman at the Mojave which the astronauts rescued a Desert base. "We had expected falling laboratory that will help things to improve dramatically scientists design spaceships of during the day and they did." the future. Flight director Bill Reeves in 
The live shuttle crew mem­Houston said "the only concern bers spent their last full day in in the morning (Friday) is the orbit testing the shuttle's flight potential for fog." Flight rules control systems and stowing dictate that visibility be seven their gear and experiments, miles at landing. then said good-night to Mission If the shuttle cannot land as Control and went to 'bed early planned, there are several op­Thursday afternoon. tions for Columbia, including a 
They planned to wake up touchdown about a half hour later Thursday to prepare f9r a later Friday or a landing Sat­landing at 2:55 a.m. PST Friday urday at Edwards. on the concrete runway at Ed­wards Air Force Base, Calif. Recent bad weather, com­
Although some snow fell on bined with the nighttime land­the base Thursday, it melted by ing, prompted NASA officials to late morning and NASA said discourage spectators from the weather was predicted to be trying to get to the base to aeceptable for touchdown. watch the touchdown. 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Day Editors 
For information, please contact Erin O'Neill at 239-5303 or 283-4215 

Meeting the natives 
AP Photo 

U.S. soldiers Cpl. Darryl Wilkerson of Alabama, far left, Sgt. Bill Pelfrey of Oklahoma, center, and Spc. Angel Aguilar of California talk with four young Panamanian women as they guard City Hall in downtown Panama. 
ANC admits it may have to negotiate with S. Africa 
LUSAKA, Zambia (AP) -The apartheid system of racial sep­African National Congress on aration, Nzo said. Thursday conceded it could not Nzo urged guerrilla leaders step up insurgent actions inside not to "trail behind events with South Africa, and said it may our feet shackled by old percep­have to prepare for negotia­tions and a fear to confront a tions with the white-led gov­new reality." ernment in Pretoria. "We must break new ground 
"The armed struggle must and keep the initiative firmly in 
continue but looking at our sit­our hands," he said. "Unless uation realistically we must we act quickly we will surrender admit that we do not have the the initiative to Pretoria." capacity within our country to The movement began a cam­
intensify the struggle in any paign of bombing and sabotage meaningful way," said ANC attacks in 1961. secretary-general Alfred Nzo. Outlawed in South Africa, the 
Addressing the first session ANC has repeatedly said it will of a three-day gathering of the not negotiate with De Klerk un­ANC national executive commit­til its jailed leader Nelson Man­tee, Nzo said the black guerrilla deJa is released, the organiza­
group risked being "caught off tion is legalized, political trials balance" by political reforms are halted and troops are with­introduced by President F.W. drawn from black townships. De Klerk. Nzo said the Lusaka meeting 
South Africa's government will review developments in was pushing ahead with re­South Africa and focus on the forms at a speed designed to expected release within weeks outmaneuver the ANC and ac­of Mandela and his future role tivists campaigning against the in the organization. 
WJ~liD~M URBAN PLUNQE STUDENTS ~~ 
@. 
MANDA~RY ~ 
® 
FOLLOW-UP MEETI~ liVil 
6:40pm-1 0:00 pm 
JANUARY 21 (THIS SUNDAY) 
Meet in the Hesbt.rgh Ltmy AUdtorilm
• 


(!Jbe New lork mimtll 
Subscribe to The New York Times at a 50°/o discounted student rate. Papers will be delivered by 8:00 to dorms, faculty offices and mailboxes. 
spring term  
Monday-Friday  $17.25  
Monday-Saturday  $20.25  
Monday-Sunday  $50.25  
Sunday only  $30.00  

For more information call: Tom Mustillo 146 Keenan Hall 283-3258 
Friday, January 19, 1990 
page 6 The Observer 
deciding whether to refile said they believed some of the were days when I didn't know if $295,000 bail, were required to stand trial after an 18-month
charges against Buckey on the children were molested, but the I could stand it anymore.... I preliminary hearing. But five
13 deadlocked counts. prosecution never established think it's going to be very hard
Trial 

getting back into the real teachers ·who worked at the
Pounders was the first to see that the defendants were re­
continued from page 1 world." preschool had charges against
the 52 sealed verdicts, which sponsible. 
them dismissed. Among thoselie also said legislation was absolved the defendants of an They also said parents' fears A single scream was heard in were Buckey's sister, Peggyneeded to prevent such lengthy array of child sexual abuse and the techniques of psycholo­the crowded courthouse hall­Ann, and his grandmother, Vir­
proceedings in the future. ~llegations involving rape, gists who interviewed the stu­way when the verdicts were Asked if the state owes the sodomy and fondling. dents may have planted ideas in read. An unidentified woman ginia McMartin, who founded 
wept into her hands and an­the once prestigious but nowdefendants an apology, The conspiracy count alleged the children's heads. 
defunct nurserv <:rhool

Pounders said no. He calculated that Buckey and his mother "I believe that the children other looked distressed. that only 30 percent of the time conspired to commit an as­believed what they were saying Friends or relatives shielded More than 1,000 pieces of ev­consumed in the case was de­sortment of lewd and lascivious was true in the courtroom," the women from TV cameras. idence were introduced, and 
voted to the prosecution. acts on children under 14 years said juror Brenda Williams. At "They're making a big mis­124 witnesses testified. 
"The length of the trial was old. the Children's Institute Interna­take," said Chris Collins, 18, The case began in August due primarily to the defense "This is somebody else's sys­tional, where psychologists who as a child was a student at 1983 when Judy Johnson, rather than the prosecution," tem," complained parent Bob conducted taped interviews McMartin Pre-School, but mother of a child at the school, 
he said. Curry. "In baseball, it's never with the children, she said, "I wasn't one of the children in­told the Manhattan Beach po­
Prosecutor Lael Rubin said, over till it's over. In child mo­could not tell from watching volved in the abuse allegations. lice department's sex abuse and "We ultimately must respect lestation, and this is a good ex­the tape that the children were "When I woke up this morning juvenile investigator that her the jury's decision even though ample of it, it's never over when telling what actually happened I thought they would be going son's bottom was red and that I personally disagree with it.... it's over." to them or if they were repeat­to jail the next day. The justice he had spoken of a man named I believe that the families in­The jury spent nine weeks de­ing what their· parents told system has let us down." Ray who worked at the school. volved in this case and the chil­liberating on ·the charges them." Buckey, who was released on Letters were sent alerting par­dren involved in this case ... against the Buckeys, who were As for the pressures on the $1.5 million bail in February, ents to check their children for cannot be forgotten or over­accused of molesting 11 chil­jury, Ms. Williams said, "There and his mother, free on signs of molestation. looked in terms of what they dren over five years at the fam­have had to endure in the kind ily-owned school in suburban of system we presently have." Manhattan Beach. 
District Attorney Ira Reiner "You have endured where all also said judicial reform was else has failed," the judge told needed. jurors. "There is really no way 
"Insane is the word that I can thank you for your ser­comes to mind.... We need two vice." things -move cases to trial When he announced, "You much more rapidly and through are excused from further jury the court more rapidly," he service," the panelists broke said. into shouts and applause. 
Hubin said she would consult In interviews in the court­with parents in the case before room afterward, the jurors 
You're the same cute little girl, just in a bigger uniform now. 
Lots of Love, Mom, Dad, Mark, Kristin, a Shannon 
This Is NoWay To ·TakeYour 
LSAT. 

j 
If you've set your sights on law school, there's no better LSAT preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our LSAT prep will open you eyes with score-raising strategies and techmques We'll help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively All our class and study material is based on the "new" LSAT And you can review lessons, and get additional help as needed in our TEST-N-TAP~ lab, open days, evenmgs and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. "And watch the scales tip in your favor. 
!STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 

~ ~ ~oro OFF :
fl} 
I 'h ru I 'h ~ I
= ANY CD WITH = ANY TAPE WITH o 1 : ~ THIS COUPON 8 : ~ THIS COUPON o 1 I K 0 I ~ I 
EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS , EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS , I
I 

, I I
EXPIRES 2/25/90 EXPIRES 2/25/90
I

I I I 
I I
L 

------------------·------------------­

Viewpoint
Friday, January 19, 1990 
page 7 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Regis Cocc1a  Business Manager R1ch Iannelli  
Exec. News Editor Viewpoint Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Photo Editor Saint Mary's Editor  ..  Mat1hew Gallagher Dave Bruner Theresa Kelly John Blas1 Enc Ba1ley Christine Gill  Advertising Manager Molly Killen Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Production Manager Alison Cocks Systems Mgr Bernard Brenmnkmeyer OTS Director Angela Bellanca Controller Anne L1ndner  

The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Umversl­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1n1strat1on of either mst1tut1on. The news IS reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned editonals represent the op1n1on of the maJonty of the follow1ng Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef. Managing Editor. Executive News Ed1tor V1ewpomt Ed1tor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Ed1tor Commentaries let:ers. and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 1s ava1lab1L to all members of the community and the free express1on of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 

Changing world demands shift in U.S. attitude 
lions swept across the globe, nated and prejudiced maniacs slaying of an American marine face" may look even more ap­
By S.P. Udayakumar starting from Taiwan and like the racist South Africa, there. pealing to the world states. 
reaching Chile. It would not be, Zionist Israel, fundamentalist The Bush-Quayle double­The 90s emerge with strong 
in any case, naive if we conclude "Islamic republic" votaries of thronged stance of cautious­winds of change which carry a 
Tlw HOs have drawn to a that the new decade is going to the Middle East and South Asia, ness and cynicism towards the clear and loud message: Do not 
grotnsque close with fantastic change the course of human the "one party democrats" of winds of change is single­try to walk before, for the 
rhanges which many of us held history. I, for one, foresee a Africa, the elite class' puppet minded at least in one thing: world may not follow you. Do 
would never happen in our life: better. freer and more peaceful rulers like Cristiani of El Sal­emerging as the "world em­not try to walk behind, for"the 
time. world. vador and the militarists. They perm:" by keeping all the pre­world may not lead you. Walk 
Tlw large-scale changes made However. there are three do fantasize that they are sent double-standard policies side by side, hand-in-hand to­
with such rapidity and peacc­more pockets of resistance stable, that power is consoli­and programs intact. Washing­wards the common goal and 
f'ulrwss (except in tlw Homa­which the "soul-force" of hu­dated in their hands and that ton cannot and should not re­shared dream; you all will have 
nian rase) make us wonder mankind has to overcome in its their blind ideologies are going sist the winds of change. If it a great future. 
wlwtlwr what we seP around is peaceful march towards reform to last long. Actually, it is only does not change its interna­S.P. Udayakumar is a gradu­
trw~ or not. A Notre Dame pro­and restructuring. a matter of time before the tional political behavior, ate student in the Institute for 
fessor noted in a government The ongoing changes in the "Sword of Damocles" which "communism with a human International Peace Studies. 
class that if a Ph.D. student, Communist world and the col­they have hung over their heads 
whiiP defending her disserta­lapse of the so-called falls on them and finishes off LETTERS 
tion. had mentioned last August "proletarian dictatorships" their tyranny. that East GP.rmany would go send a severe chill through the The most unfortunate resis­GSU resolves to boycott Coca-Cola 
frne and the people there would spine of the Third World Com­tance camp is the West, led by Dear Editor: 
dance on the Berlin Wall, she by munist clients. In fact, the the United States. This camp On Dec. 7. 1989, the Graduate 
all means would have been "Comrades" of Benin have obviously feels that it has fi­Student Council passed the fol­
taken as a crazy dreamer. abolished Marxism-Leninism as nally emerged victorious in the lowing resolution, GSC 89-90­
Orw after the other, Poland. the official ideology of the state "ideological warfare" with the 01. It was resolved: Hungary, East .Germany, and vowed to introduce "a Communist bloc and can now That the Graduate Student Czechoslovakia and Romania healthy political climate." The indulge in its future role as the Union will join the Coca-Cola 
have thrown away the repres­so-called "People's Democratic "the sole big-brother." Wash­boycott, rather than "support"
sive Communist system. The Republic" of Yemen is seriously ington's self-assumed future­it. This means that the GSU will 
Catholic church has been legal­pursuing a possible merger role has started to rear its ugly not purchase Coca-Cola prod­
ized in Ukraine; Lithuania and with the non-Communist North head in the form of high­ucts for any of its functions. 
Latvia have turned down the 
Yemen, as a result of "Aden's handed behavior. Panamanian That the GSU will send letters Communist party's monopoly of Perestroika." Although Vietnam intervention is the latest. While to the Notre Dame Board of power in the Soviet Union. Bul­has a perestroika equivalent, we rejoice at the removal of Trustees expressing dismaygaria, which used to coerce the nothing seems to have changed Noriega from the international with the Board's present policy Trustees promised to divest Turkish Muslim minority into in that Communist bastion. 
political scene, we also feel of constructive engagement. fr.om South Africa should the not having Muslim names, has The murderous gang in China obliged to ponder who created Similar letters would also be situation deteriorate further,
suddenly recognized this right. headed by Deng Xiaoping, Fidel Noriega. 
sent to the Coke Board of yet they have never followed The winds of change are in no Castro (Cuba), Ramiz Alia The U.S. administration's Trustees and The Observer ex­through on their promise. Fur­way restricted only to Eastern (Albania). Mengistu Haile double-standard behavior also plaining the GSU's position. In thermore, it is clear that all of 
Europe. Pakistan, a traditional Mariam (Ethiopia), Kim II Sung comes to mind Noriega was a the absence of the University the legitimate black leaders in militaristic state, has seen the (North Korea), and Nguyen "CIA freedom-fighter," but taking decisive action, the GSU South Africa support divest­resurgence of democv·cy. The Van Linh (Vietnam) still dream when Washington renounced hopes to set a better example ment as the only means of end­largest democracy India, that they can fool their people him, he became a drug baron by boycotting Coca-Cola. ing apartheid. We believe that kicked out the corru t govern­even longer despite the uncere­and thug. Elaine Sciolino wrote In addition the following sug­these facts coupled with Rev. ment and voted into power a monious end of Ceausescu, who in the New York Times on Jan. gestions were also accepted by Leon Sullivan's withdrawal of true democratic group who boasted just a few days before 4, 1990 about the "differing the members of the Graduate his Sullivan principles, make it 
have liberated the media from his trial and execution that 
standards" Washington adopts Student Council: clear that complete divestment the Congress party's Commu­Romania would never abandon on "protecting American lives." • A brief indication on all of all University holdings that nist-style distortion. Iran wit­Communism. The truth of the She highlighted the U.S. admin­
GSU ads and fliers for social do business in South Africa is nessed the death of an matter is the wind has already istration's muted response to events that Coca-Cola products the only proper stand against'unreasonable man', and the been taken out of their sails, the killing of two nuns (one of would not be served in respect apartheid.
other men of his class, Qaddafi and the world is to witness whom was a U.S. citizen) by the of the boycott. 
Luis Canales 
and Assad, have been less vig­their downfall one by one. Contra rebels in Nicaragua in • A boycott of all companies 
President
orous lately. The second resisting group sharp contrast to the invasion that do business with or hold 
Graduate Student Union
A wave of democratic elec-consists of hopelessly indoctri-of Panama as a reaction to the stock in South Africa. 
Jan. 17, 1990 

DOONESBURY QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 

'The happiest people are those who discover that what they should be doing and what they are doing are the same thing.' 
Anonymous 

Friday, January 19, 1990
page 8 The Observer 
Accent 

Douglas, Turner, DeVito wage "War of the Roses" 
ALISON COCKS 
accent writer 

The Yorks and the Lancasters 
fought the Wars of the Hoses 
for decades. engaging in bitter 
battles fur the thrmw of 16th 
century England. 
Barbara and Oliver Hose, in 
Danny DeVito's new black com­
edy, "The War of the Hoses," 
condense Uwir violent feud to 
less than a year. 
"Tht~y mel great,"says Gavin 
D'Amato (Danny DeVito). 
Oliver is struggling his way 
through Harvard law school 
and Barbara is attending col­
lege on a gymnastics scholar­
ship. They fall madly in love one 
hot night in Nantuckt~t. and the 
next time the audience sees 
them they am married with two 
gorgeous toddlers and are 
struggling along. 
Seventeen years later, Oliver 
and Barbara have n~alized the 
American Dream and then 
some: they own a gorgeous 
house in tlw suburbs, Oliver is a 
senior partner in his presti­
gious law firm. and Barbara, 
after spending six years deco­
rating the perfect horne, is be­
ginning a catering business. 
TIH~ir childrnn have been ac­
cepted at llarvard. and 
Barbara's shot~ rat:k lakes up 
one long wall in tlwir walk-in 
doset. 
However. there is a marked 

difference in their relationship. causes her. While Oliver has re­of satisfaction. Oliver, as the with a husband who has taken about the extravagantly mali­
OlivBr's career is his life, and aliznd how much he loves his family breadwinner, feels he her for granted for too long cious divorce cases splashl'd 
his success as a husband dons wife, Barbara has discovered has a stronger claim to the and excuse her decidedly violent across the pages of today's 
not match his success as a se­how much she detests her hus­house. streak. tabloids. 
nior partner. Although he band. Like the Yorks and the Michael Douglas is also on Audience members who takl' 
makes a few superficial ges­Oliver returns from the hospi­Lancasters, neither of them will the mark in his portrayal of a serious view of' the Hoses' sit­
tures of affection. Barbara's tal anticipating loving care give up until the bitter end. Oliver, an imperceptive, con­uation will undoubtPdly lost~ frustration is obviously mount­from his wife. He gets a request "We came from mud. And fused husband who retaliates faith in humanity. Those who ing at his failure to recognize for a divorce. Barbara's de­after 3.8 billion years of evolu­for his wife's actions but never are able to apprneiate the film's her mnotional needs. mands are simple: she doesn't tion, at our core there is still quite understands what has outrageous black comedy will 
Tht~n the crucial turning point want alimony, and she's waiv­mud. No one could be a divorce driven her to such extremes. delight in Oliver and Barbara's occurs; Oliver is rushed to the ing her claim to his business lawyer and doubt that," sighs Danny DeVito provides the growing nastiness with hospital with what he believes assets. All she wants is the Gavin in disbelief. Oliver and right mixture of humor. com­amusPmPnt and will viPw tlw to be a lwart attack. lie pens house and all its contents. Barbara have aptly proven his mon sense and sarcasm as film as it should be undnrstood: his last words of lovt~ to The house becomes the bat­theory. Gavin [)'Amato, whom lw por­as a wonderfully evil, Pntertain­Barbara. only to discover his tlnfiPld, as both Oliver and Kathleen Turner plays the trays with his usual wit and ing film with strong satirical "heart attack" was actually a Barbara use it to focus their vindictive, frustrated Barbara nair. ovPrtones. 'War of the Hosps' is men• lwrnia. frustrations. Barbara has with panache. Some will view "War of the Roses" should be an unforgettabiP PXpPriPnn~. 
Meanwhile. Barbara is poured her heart and soul into her as the devil incarnate, while enjoyed as a satirical commen­creatively coneeived, innova­amazed at tlw wave of happi­creating the perfect home, others. particularly women, will tary on relationships gone tively produced and tri­rwss Oliwr's supposed death of'tpn finding it her only source empathize with her frustrations wrong and a strong statement umphantly executed. 
continued from page 1 
Weiss' Orange Bowl dream comes true 
Tlw WPiss family is full of Kurt wore a Notre Damn uni­as evidPnced by his high grades. musical talPnt. llis oldPr form, sat in the band section Although he misses a signifi­brotlwr plays the trombmw in a during the game and played his eant amount of sehool to re­jazz Pnst~mblt~ at Xavier of Ohio new saxophone. In preparation, ceive chemotherapy. lw insi~1.s and his f'atlwr playPd in tlw Pitt Kurt attended a few band prac­upon completing his assign­band. Kurt ehosP this particu­tices and spent time with tlw mPnts. Kurt realizns hn must lar wish, bPeausP he wantnd it band members during their free nwet high acadPmic standards to lw sonwthing in which thn LimP. if hP plans to attPnd Notre Pntirn family could partakn. The band director, Luther Danw. Kurt's motlwr said. "It is typi­Snavely. received a call from SinrP July, Kurt has rnePived cal of Kurt that his wish in­the Make-A-Wish Foundation in two opPrations. Tlw first oper­dudml tlw whole family." September about the project. ation, an allograft. is a new 
Kurt was amazed and de­The band was delighted to par­pron~dure in which the bone is lightPd that he could do some­ticipatn in the wish. Snavely transplantPd. In Kurt's case. a thing for his family wlwn he said, "We consider it a rare major portion of his tibia was found out hn would b1~ granted privilege to be able to help removPd and mplaePd with his wish. Kurt sent a lPttnr in somebody." Snavely continued, bone from a bonl' bank. The St~ptnmbPr to the Makn-A-Wish "The band benefited as much as opPration was perf'omwd in Foundation of' WPstern Kurt did." Boston at MassaehusPtts I'Pnnsylvania exprnssing his After the bowl game, Kurt's Cerwral Hospital by Dr. llnnry wish. Judith Augustirw. the wish didn't end. When Kurt and Mankin. who is world rPnownPd wish wordinator for thn foun­his family deplaned in for dPvPioping this prot·.ndurn. dation. said. "We told him we Pittsburgh, he was greeted in ThP allograft tnchniqtw is an can make most miracles hap­the terminal by 69 of his fellow altPrnativP to amputation pen, but Notre Dame gntting to North Hills band members who whieh is tlw eommon procPdure a bowl game was out of their were playing his high school's for patients with bonn cancPr. hands." fight song. Although there arP no guaran­
Onen Notre Dame received the Kurt's mother said, "Notre tees with this operation, Kurt's Orange Bowl bid, the founda­Dame is among the sources of bmw is suceessfully knitting to tion could carry out all the de­Kurt's strength to overcome the rwwly transplantPd borw tailed planning so that Kurt cancer as well as his family, and the outlook is promising. The chemotherapy had already spring. and his family could enjoy faith and high school band." The second opPration con­killed the cancer. Kurt's mother Kurt's courage and optimism themselves in Florida. Judith I loping to attend Notre Dame, sisted of' removing the cancer said, "This was the best answer has allowed him to surmount Augustine said, "We try to Kurt pushes himself academi­that had metastasized to his to all our prayers." Kurt's the obstades that he faces. make 1wnry wish as magical as cally. lungs. When the dof'lors oper­prognosis is good and his Before leaving Miami, Kurt told we possibly can." llis hard work is paying off atPCl. they found no viabiP cells. chemotherapy will end in the the band, 'Til be back." 



-------_..--~-----~ 
--------~----------~---------r~------------------.------------~ 
IRISH EXTRA 
Polls pass on ND, pick Miami No.1 
By THERESA KELLY why Notre Dame didn't," said a 
Sports Editor dejected Notre Dame .head 
coaeh Lou Holtz the day after 
What's the problem? the Orange Bowl. "We played 
Notre Dame was proclaimed the toughest schedule and had 
the college football national the best record." 
champion after defeating Col­When asked if he could think 
orado in the Orange Bowl. of a reason why Miami should 
Based on total wins, winnmg not wm the national champi­
percentage, strength of sched­onship, Hurricane head coach. 
ule, most wins over bowl teams Dennis Erickson said, "No. 
and most quality road wins, the None at all." 
Irish were proclaimed National The UPI coaches' poll had 
Champions by The College Miami rated No. 1. and florida 
Football Fanatics of Milwau­State took the second spot. 
kee. The ever-visible cover of 
Forget the AI' and UPI polls. Sports Illustrated also put the 
Tho popular votn went to the Hurricanes on top. announcing, 
Irish. Or at least. the Notrn "No doubt about it." 
Dame fans were thn most vocal. The doubt stems from the 
An overwhelming 56 percent of varied and inconsistent means 
callers to an ABC poll during with which people rank the 
the Sugar Bowl voted Notre teams in determining what re­
Dame No. 1, compared to Mi­mains a "mythical" champi­
ami's 26 percent. Miami fans onship. Holtz' criteria, best 
didn't bother to eall in. They reeord against the best sched­
knew they had a lock in the ule, sounds pretty solid. Head­
polls that eounted. to-head competition has got to 
Whieh just goes to show that count for something. Timeliness 
Notre Dame fans are more has a great deal of weight, it 
willing to pay 95 cents for a seems. If you have to lose, Jose 
phone call to prove a point...a early. 
point well taken, but not by the "We beat the ACC champ," 
pollsters. Holtz said. "We beat the Big 10 
The 60-odd sportswriters and champ, we beat the Pac 10 "eollege football analysts" who champ, we beat the Big 8 detnrrnine the Assodated Press champ and we beat the top two poll dnfined the system by plae­independents in the East. When ing the greatest emphasis on people look back and say who head-to-head results and time­aecomplished the most over the liness of defeat. Notre Dame's entire season, how can anyone 27-10 loss to Miami could only say that's not Notre Dame?" have been overcome by a loss There are arguments for and by Miami to Alabama in the against all criteria. Florida Sugar Bowl. Had Miami beaten State beat Miami head-to-head; Notre Dame in September, it they finished third in most would have been a different polls. Time magazine face­story entirely. tiously awarded Southern Mis­
"You can justify why Miami sissippi the national champi­won it. What you can't justify is onship: they beat Florida State, 

The Observer I Andrew McCloskey 
The Miami Hurricanes were doing the celebrating the day after, as the pollsters picked them as national champions over Notre Dame and Florida State. 
(who beat Miami who beat nouncer Lee Corso challenged cembnr to New Year's Day. Tlw Notre Dame who beat Col­Holtz to challenge the Hurri­benefit would be a ehampi­orado) in the first game of the canes to a national-champi­onship truly deeidnd on the year. Time went on to trace onship game at a neutral site. field; the length of the season head-to-head competition and "We'd love to play Miami and tradition are opposing ar­award the title to Notre Dame, again, just like they'd have gummlls. who beat Virginia, who beat loved to play us last year." The basketball post-season Virginia Tech ... Holtz said, and although the has expanded to 64 teams be­
If playing the toughest idea sounded good to him, he cause no 1111e wanted to leave schedule doesn't count, why not laughed it away. ''I'll have to any good teams out. The same play pansies? ask Dick Rosenthal who'll ask would be true for football if a 
"That's not Notre Dame's Father Beauchamp who'II take bracket system wenl invoked. way," Holtz said. "The caliber it to Father Malloy who'll bring Plus, any team can have a bad of schedule we played day in it before the board of trustees, game at .any time. That's why and day out, with teams getting then we'll get you a definite an­they play the game. Otherwise, sky-high to play you every sin­swer." they would award a victory to gle time, and one day we don't Playoff systems galore have whomever was rank1ld highN in play our best, and they write been suggested, from the No. 1 the polls. you off, It's not right." and No. 2 teams playing a post­As long as the pollsters are 
The whole situation brings up bowl championship to replacing the decision makers. the na­the issue of a playoff system in the bowl system with a 16-team tional championship will remain college football. ESPN an-elimination bracket from De-mythical. 
REGULAR  SEASON  Bolcar  1  1  0  0  0-0  0-0  6  
TEAM  STATISTICS  NO  OPP  Graham  1  1  0  0  0-0  0-0  6  
Boyd  1  1  0  0  0-0  0-0  6  
TOTAL OFFENSE  4818  3550  Setzer  1  1  0  0  0-0  0-0  6  
Total Plays  845  828  West  1  1  0  0  0-0  0-0  6  
Yards per Play  5.7  4.3  Aim  1  0  0  1  0-0  0-0  6  
Yards per Game  401.5  295.8  Belles  1  1  0  0  0-0  0-0  6  
PENAL TIES-YARDS  58-483  54-417  Levens  1  1  0  0  0-0  0-0  6  
FUMBLES-LOST  28-16  30-14  McNamara  1  1  0  0  0-0  0-0  6  
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS  257  206  Terrell  1  0  0  1  0-0  0-0  6  
By Rushing  193  80  NO  50  42  2  6  48-51  15-23406  
By Passing  59  111  Opp.  23  5  18  0  17-23  9-10  183  
By Penalty  5  15  
THIRD DOWNS-CONV.  71 -151  76-185  RUSHING  NO  YOS  AVG  TO  LG  
%  .470  .411  Rice  174  884  5.1  7  38  
SCORING Johnson  TO 13  R 11  p 2  R 0  PA 0-0  FG 0-0  TP 78  Watters Johnson Ismail  118 131 64  791 515 478  6.7 3.9 7.5  10 11 2  53 35 50  
Hentrich Watters Rice Ismail Culver Hackett  0 11 7 5 5 0  0 10 7 2 5 0  0 0 0 0 0 0  0 1 0 3 0 0  44-45 0-0 1-2 0-0 0-0 3-4  8-15 68 0-0 66 0-0 44 0-0 30 0-0 30 7-7 24  Culver Levens Belles Boyd Setzer  59 25 15 9 17  242 132 86 64 59  4.1 5.3 5.7 7.1 3.5  5 1 1 1 1  15 30 13 14 22  

1990 Notre Dame Football Schedule 
Sept. 15 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Oct. 27 Nov. 3 Nov. 10 Nov. 17 Nov. 24 

MICHIGAN at Michigan State PURDUE STANFORD AIR FORCE MIAMI at Pittsburgh at Navy at Tennessee PENN STATE at USC 
Brooks 13 43 3.3 0 Mihalko 12 44 3.7 0 Mirer 10 32 3.2 0 Jarrell 2 24 12.0 0 Eilers 5 18 3.6 0 Graham 7 15 2.1 1 McNamara 4 14 3.5 1 Lanigan 2 9 9.0 0 West 2 5 2.5 1 R.Griggs 2 0 0.0 0 NO 673 3452 5.1 42 Opp. 416 1267 3.0 5 
PASSING c A % YOS TO INT Rice 68 137 .4961122 2 9 Mirer 15 29 .517 180 0 1 Graham 4 5 .800 64 0 0 NO 87 172 .5061366 2 10 Opp. 232 412 .5632283 18 24 
RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO Ismail 27 535 19.8 0 
11  Brown  13  204 15.7  0  38  
7  Watters  13  196 15.1  0  32  
11  Johnson  8  85  10.6  2  27  
21  Eilers  5  53  10.6  0  20  
8  Jarrell  4  37  9.3  0  16  
7  Belles  3  29  9.7  0  1 7  
6  Levens  3  27  9.0  0  12  
8  Mihalko  3  44  14.7  0  33  
4  Pollard  3  75  25.0  0  37  
2  T.Smith  2  26  12.0  0  18  
53  I. Smith  1  8  8.0  0  8  
36  R. Griggs  1  7  7.0  0  7  
NO  87  1366  15.7  2  52  
Opp.  232 2283  9.8  18  61  
LG 52 33 37 52 61  DEFENSE Bolcar Grimm Zorich Aim  TACKLES s A T 66 43 109 49 44 93 43 49 92 30 44 74  SA 2-21 0-0 3·27 1-4  INT 1 2 0 1  
LG 52  Francisco Dahl A.Jones  38 27 25  28 25 24  66 52 49  0-0 3.5-10 2-26  4 0 0  

1989 Notre Dame Football Results 
Notre Dame 36, Virginia 13 Notre Dame 24, Michigan 19 Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 13 Notre Dame 40, Purdue 7 Notre Dame 27, Stanford 17 Notre Dame 41, Air Force 27 Notre Dame 28, Southern Cal 24 Notre Dame 45, Pittsburgh 7 Notre Dame 41, Navy 0 Notre Dame 59, Southern Methodist 6 Notre Dame 34, Penn State 23 Miami 27, Notre Dame 20 Notre Dame 21; Colorado 6 
IRISH EXTRA 
Irish drive Buffs out of Orange Bowl 
But fall short in title bid 
By THERESA KELLY The Notre Dame defense held Sports Editor Colorado scoreless in the first half. despite several long 
MIAMI -It was tho same Buffalo drives. The Buffs' of­field. and the two teams were fense self-destructed on its sec­battling for the national cham­ond drive as Eric Bieniemy, pionship. But this time the op­with open field ahead of him, ponent was difforent. and fumbled on the Notre Dame 19­Notre Dame wore down the yard line. Pat Terrell recovered Colorado Buffaloes in the third for the Irish to stop the first quarter to convincingly win the threat. 1990 Orange Bowl 21-6. In the second quarter, the 
The game did doeide the na­Irish defense stopped Colorado tional championship, but only on the five, and kicker Ken by process of elimination. Had Culbertson missed a 23-yard the Buffaloes won, they would field goal attempt wide left. have been undisputed national Another bullet dodged. champions. Then came the goal-line 
But the Irish (12-1 ), behind stand, the turning point for the the strength of a second-quar­Irish. It started with a first­ter goal-line stand and a mon­and-goal at the Notre Dame umental third quarter, beat one-not an easy occasion to previously unbeaten Colorado rise to. ( 11-1) to finish with the best On the first try, Bieniemy record in college football, but tried a sweep to the right for second to Miami in the what was ruled as no gain, Associated Press poll. although to all eyes but the of­Ironically, it was a similar ficials' it looked as if the ball third-quartor dominance by the had crossed the plane of the coach Bill McCartney brought "I said how we reacted in the "Rocket" Ismail the key to the Hurricanes on Nov. 25 that goal line. Colorado quarterback out his field goal unit, ostensi­second half would go a long second Irish score. propelled Miami to the win it Darian Hagan tried next, but bly settling for a field goal and way to determining our ap­The teams exchanged posses­noeded to secure the national his keeper up the middle was three-point lead. But the at­proach to success the rest ol sions before the Buffaloes fi­title. stopped short of the endzone. tempt was a fake, and Troy our life. Whatever they did they nally got on the board. Hagan 
"It feels better than the last Attempt number three saw Ridgley stopped holder/runner were going to have to live with, put forth a tremendous effort time I was here," said Notre Hagan losing two yards on a Jeff Campbell short of the goal. and it was going to be a for­on a 39-yard touchdown run, Dame head coach Lou Holtz. pitch to Bieniemy, and Colorado Four Colorado tries to gain mative thing in their attitude but the point-after attempt hit one yard, but the Irish defense towards life." the upright, putting the score was up to the task. Whatever it was, it worked, at 14-6. Again the Buffalo de­
"Our defense on the goal line and, if Holtz was right, the fense came through, and the was just tremendous," Holtz Notre Dame players can be as­Irish had to give up the ball to said. "Because their statistics, sured of happy, successful fu­the rejuvenated Colorado of­when they get inside the 20, tures. fense. were rather incredible. They "It was just like playing a 3D­The Irish defense came had four different chances in minute football game from that through again, holding the first half to get on top of point on," Holtz said. Colorado on third-and-nine us, and we were fortunate to The first Irish drive of the from the Notre Dame 44, set­get away with it." third quarter culminated in a ting the stage for a monumen­
Prior to the Orange Bowl. two-yard touchdown run by tal Notre Dame drive of almost Colorado had scored on 50 of fullback Anthony Johnson. set nine minutes. Seventeen plays 57 tries inside the opponent's up by a 27-yard pass from Rice and 82 yards later, Johnson 20-yard line. The Notre Dame to Tony Smith and a 29-yard scored from seven yards out, offense turned it up a notch run by Johnson. The point after and the PAT gave the Irish the after the Buffaloes were was good by Craig Hentrich for 21-6 cushion that was the final stopped, but a 27-yard field a 7-0 Irish lead. margin. goal attempt by Billy Hackett "We felt that's what we had was blocked by Greg Thomas, to do," Holtz said. "We have a Ismail, from the tailback and the teams took to the good offensive line, and we just spot, finished with 16 carries, locker rooms at the half in a had to fall into a rhythm. We 108 net yards, one touchdown scoreless tie. never really got into a rhythm and a long run of 35 yards, as 
A long halftime show proved first half offensively, until late. well as the MVP trophy. beneficial to the Irish, who ad­We got into a very good rhythm "I felt Rocket had a fine justed their game plan and that last drive, and we wanted game," Holtz said, but he re­came out with an offensive to take it to the second half." fused to acknowledge a perma­rhythm that Colorado was The defense held on four nent move to the backfield for powerless to slow. Holtz, in plays, and Notre Dame was off his lightning-quick flanker. dramatic fashion, set the scene again, with Rice's newfound "Rocket cannot take the for the second half: passing success and a 35-yard pounding for a whole year, but 
"At the half, we just went reverse touchdown run by we figured for one game he Orange Bowl MVP Raghib could." 


Off-field media antics steal spotlight from on-field action 
You can't win for winning. 

After the 1989 season, Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz became a man under a magnifying glass, and no more so than at the Orange Bowl, where the media and the fans hung on to his every word. 
And I do mean every word. 

The media became a role player, as opposed to spectator and reporter, when KCNC television of Denver taped a Holtz pep talk to the team and broadcast selected segments, but only those derogatory to Colorado. 
"Let me tell you what," Holtz said to the team, "they've been living a lie. They've been living a lie all year. 
" ... They're used to scoring a lot of points. They ain't playing any Kansas State. We got to be patient on defense, just play our football game. On offense, we want to control the football ... Frustration will set in on Colorado's offense. By the middle of the third quarter, they will leave the game plan com­pletely and start grab-bagging. Remember me telling you that. They are not patient." 
The broadcast and subsequent print reports of Holtz' comments created more commotion than Chubby Checker's halftime show. Holtz was the bad guy again, this time for trying to pump up his team. 

Theresa Kelly Sports Editor 
What is a coach supposed to say to his team if he can't tell them how they're going to win? 
As it turned out, of course, Holtz' words were al­most psychically prophetic. The Buffaloes did wear down and become confused in the third quarter when the Irish took command. Holtz, who is criti­cized for downplaying the Irish and building up the opposition, was trashed in the media when he tried to instill confidence in his team. 
The pep talk wouldn't have been necessary, except for other media attention: Irish player comments were being twisted and contorted into Buffalo­bashing. Irish quarterback Tony Rice was quoted as saying that Notre Dame "would bring home a 'W.' " Colorado defensive tackle Okland Salavea, in re­sponse, said he didn't "think much of Tony Rice as a person." 
This is the same Salavea who said, "They ain't going to win. We are. It's a promise." This was re­ported as a touching tribute to the late Colorado quarterback, Sal Aunese. Rice was not heard ques­tioning Salavea's character after that remark. 
Aunese's death was tragic for the Colorado team, and their emotion made great news copy for most of the season. Colorado's grief was there for the public to see every time the Buffs stepped on the field. The sorrow was understandable, and their dedication to Aunese was admirable. But the story was told and retold, embellished and finally exploited by the me­dia. Even if the team had wanted to grieve privately, the story was just too good to pass up. 
The Irish could not win with the press: Holtz was criticized for housing the team at the Airport Hilton instead of at the beach. He was lambasted for wor­rying about Raghib Ismail's injured shoulder. His sensitivity was questioned when he called the Colorado coach "Dick" McCartney instead of "Bill." He spent most of the post-game press conference explicitly saying that he had nothing against the Miami football team, because he was wary of the Miami press twisting his remarks into anti-Miami, not pro-Notre Dame, sentiment. He even was criti­
see MEDIA! page 7 


''The No~ 
spirit is wh• 
thro~ 
I'm just here at 
Notre Dame was the team everyone wanted to beat in 19H9. tory over 
When every game you play is the returns opponent's biggest game of the sea­opponent son and the national spotlight shines Tony H brightly as you defend a winning ran) the I streak that reaches into the twenties, nation's there's pressure on every play. field 
But from the Kickoff Classic the the Orange Bowl, Notre Dame thrived on pressure. LPd by head break coach Lou lloltz, they met 11 Bokar. straight ehalh~nges before falling to tackles. arch-rival Miami on the llurrieanes' The odd home turf. champions 
Included in that string were thP despite the ACC. Big 10 and Pae 10 champs, and land and the two best independents in the the cham East. And that doesn't even count bringing Miami. The Irish played nine bowl Observer teams. Trey 

il led the Irish to vic­chigan with two kickoff touchdowns, daring any kick to him again. 
ran and threw (mostly 
sh through some of the defnnses, and the back­up the yardage week in 
t. 
and its bend-but-not­rmancc was lnd by Ned led the team with 109 
of rnpeating as national are slim, but the Irish, totighest schedule in the 
ry-one out to dethrone came within one game of a second title. photos by h". G. Bailey, and Pat Kusek 

_j 
-
IRISH EXTRA 
'Dangerous' Rocket 
blasts to MVP award 
By STEVE MEGARGEE what made the Irish roach so Associate Sports Editor concerned wlwn the Hocket got injured during a practice early 
MIAMI -Lou lloltz dPvotNI a in flPcmnber. gn•at deal of tinw befow the "We planned on playing Is­191JO Orangl' Bowl expressing mail at tailback prPdomi­his concern that Haghib nantly." lloltz said. "When I "HorkPt" Ismail might not be at found out he might not be able full strPngth for tlw matchup to go, I was obviously upset." with Colorado. When Rieky Wattnrs wnnt 
Ismail spent the Pntin~ game down with a bruised knen on showing lloltz that tlwre was the game's third play. however, IH'VPr any rPason to worry. lloltz inserted Ismail at tail­
ThP sophomorP bark. Nobody could havn asked l'lankPr/tailback/kil'koff rP­for better results. tunwr. who Holtz had ParliPr "Ismail was outstanding," said might not lw abiP to play said lloltz. lwrausP of a sPparatt~d shoul­Aftnr a first hall' in which no der. was named the ganH~·s members of the Irish offense most valuabiP playPr following seemed to get anything going. NotrP Dame's 21-6 victory. Is­Ismail helped lead NotrP Dame 
mail rushPd 16 times for a ca­to touchdowns on its first two rt~Pr-high IOH yards, induding possessions of thn second half. a 35-yard rPVPrsP for a touch­llis nine-yard carry in the down. first drive put the Irish at Col­As is his custom, Ismail an­son. "The block that openPd nv­Ismail also prov<~d lw rould 
"I thought he was tPrrilk," orado's one-yard linn, where swered post-game qunstions erything up was Tim Grun­gPt tlw tough insidP yards with said Colorado coach Bill Mr­Anthony Johnson scored on the about the reverse by praising hard's block. I just took it from his 5-10, 175-pound franw. In Cartlwy. "liP's very. vPry dan­following play. his blockers. them." NotrP Dame's ganw-dinrhing gerous. We saw more of him in On the next possession, with "One of the defensive ends "We had a blitz on that, and driw, where tlw Irish moVPd H2 the backfield than I would have Notre Dame faring a 3rd-and-kind of overshot, so we cut it we thought we had him yards in almost nine minutPs, want1~d." 15 situation, Ismail got the ball up inside. had a lot of key stopped," said Colorado defen­tlw Hocknt gained 25 yards on 
Actually. lloltz had wanted to on a reverse and went down the blocks," said Ismail, who rn­sive lineman Joel Steed, "but live carriPs. give Ismail plenty of backfield right sideline for a touchdown, turned two kickoffs and one Ismail got the ball and took it 
see ROCKET I page 7 
duty in thn first place. That's giving the Irish a 14-0 lead. punt for touchdowns this sea-down." 
Holtz' assistants leave N D for head coaching jobs 
before the Orange Bowl. Al­ing jobs. Defensive line coach al01w. Tlw Badgers went 2-9 liP also had workPd undPr
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor varez. who worked primarily John Palermo will work at last fall with Don Morton on lloltz at Arkansas and Min­with the Notre Dame defense, Austin Peay (Tenn.) next sea­the sidelines. lwsota. held a press eonfPrencc at son, while offensive coordinator PalPrmo may fac1~ tlw biggPst 
Notre Damp's goal-linn stand Madison, Wise .. the day after Jim Strong was sPiected by the Alvarez has Big Ten coaching rPbuilding task. as Austin PPay 
in thP second quarter of thn the game. University of Nevada-Las experiencP, having spPnt night is coming ofT an 0 ·11 sPason. 1990 OrangP Bowl provided a Vegas. years as tlw linnbackPr coach liP has familiarity with tlw last hurrah for the king of the "We learned last night," Irish at Iowa. The llawknyns wPnt to small TnnnPssnn univnrsity, "bend-but-don't-brnak" philos­linebacker Ned Bolcar said Irish head coach Lou lloltz bowls each of the fast six years having workPd as dnfnnsiVP lin«' ophy the Irish ddense main­after the Orange Bowl game. has not announced any people Alvarez was at Iowa (:ity. coach thnre in I1J79. tailwd all s1mson. "We'm very happy for him get­to replace those three assistant BPforn working two snasons 
ting the chance of his lifntime, coaches at this point. Strong's new school. Nevada­on thn Notn~ Danw staff. 
Barry Alvarez. an Irish staff and we wanted to send him off Las Vegas, finished· at 4-7 last PalPrmo was on tlw roaching member for thren years and tlw with a victory." Wisconsin has won nine season. Strong spent two s<~a­staffs at Appalachian Stall'. assistant head coach this sea­games in the last four years, sons as running backs coach at MPmphis StalP and North son, a<TPptnd the head coaching Alvarez was one of three Irish three less victories than tlw Notre Dame bnfore becoming Carolina Stat<~. liP also was on job from Wisconsin the day assistants to take head coach-Irish compilPd this season offensive coordinator this year. lloltz' staff at Minnesota. 
Irish hold Buffs in goal-line stand 
tainment," said Hidgley. "lie the Longhorns' 21-17 win in the 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor (Campbell) tried to jump over 1965 game. "That was the Smagala, and I just cleaned it greatest goal-line stand, up up. I got a good lick on him." until this one." 
MIAMI -Troy Hidgley may Colorado did not intend to The stand was all the more have been the most surprised have Campbell run with the phenomenal considering that person in the stadium when ball, Buffaloes coach Bill Mc­Colorado had scored 50 of the Colorado tried a fake field goal Cartney said. 57 times the Buffaloes moved in the second quarter of the "We were going to throw the inside the opposition's 20-yard 1990 Orange Bowl Classic. ball to Chad Brown, but he line during the regular season. 
After failing to convert a 1st­didn't get off the line of scrim­Colorado was already 0-for-2 and-goal situation from the mage," McCartney said. "lle in the Orange Bowl before the one-yard line, Colorado had said he got jammed. It looked goal-line stand, with Eric Bie­kieker Scott Culbertson line up like a broken play, but it niemy fumbling at the 19 and for a chip-shot 20-yard field wasn't." Culbertson going wide left on a goal with just over three min­Colorado, which would have 23-yard field goal attempt. utes left until halftime. The won the national title with a On the drive that ended with three points would have given victory, had dominated the the stand, Colorado had the Buffaloes a lead in the game up to that point, but a marched 58 yards in 10 plays scoreless game. fumble and a missed field goal to the Irish one-yard line. 
had kept the game scoreless. D'Juan Francisco then tackled 
"I never fathomed the idea of Irish players realized the tide Bieniemy on first down, and a them running a fake," said Hid­had turned when Campbell, a host of defenders stopped Buf­gley, starting at defensive line starting wide receiver, failed to falo quarterback Darian Hagan in place of Bob Dahl. "I thought convert the fake. just short of the endzone on for sun~ they'd go for the three "If you try a fake play, that second down. points. means that you've gone away "I thought he (Bieniemy) was 
"Lucky for us, they wanted from your game plan," said over. but the ref had the better more. They got grendy, went Irish All-America nose tackle eyes and felt he wasn't in," said for seven points and it cost Chris Zorich. "Once they did not Hagan. them." score on that, we knew that we On third-and-goal, Hagan 
Instead of trying the field were in good shape." was pressured by Hidgley be­goal, equivalent in length to an The fake attempt culminated fore tossing a pitch toward Bi­extra point, holder Jeff Camp­a goal-line stand that Irish eniemy. The ball went past Bie­bell took the snap and ran coach Lou Holtz said was one niemy and fell out of bounds at down the right sideline. Irish of the best he had ever seen. the three-yard line. c<irnerback Stan Srnagala deliv­"I would rank it right up That set up the unsuccessful ered the initial hit, and Ridgley there with Texas when they fake field goal, which put a finished the tackle at the one­stuffed Alabama and Joe Na­stop to Colorado's momentum. yard line. math right here in the Orange 
"Smagala had outside con-Bowl," said Holtz, referring to see DEFENSE I page 7 


IRISH EXTRA 
Tunnels, 'Canes, and many happy returns 
Notre Dame 36, Virginia 13 Kickoff Classic 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Lou Holtz, who often uses boxing analo­gies in team speeches, watched his team turn in a Mike Tyson-type per­formance Thursday night at Giants Stadium. 
Scoring touchdowns on each of its first five possessions, Notre Dame opened its national championship de­fense with a 36-13 Kickoff Classic win over Virginia. 
"I don't know if we can play much better than we did in the first 25 minutes," said Holtz. 
The Irish dealt their first blow when Todd Lyght intercepted Vir­ginia quarterback Shawn Mpore's pass on the third play from scrim­mage. Six plays later, Ricket Watters skirted two yards into the end zone 
" untouched. The ensuing extra point gave the Irish a 7-0 lead. · A tight Virginia team never recov­ered, looking like a Carl "The Truth" Williams in the ring as a heavyweight champion. 
Notre Dame 24, Michigan 19 
ANN AHBOH, Mich. -"Thank God for Hocket Ismail." "lie may be the most dangerous player around, with the ball." 
Irish tri-captain Ned Bolcar and Michigan head coach Bo Schembech­ler pretty much summed up the game as the Notre Dame football team defeated the Wolverines 24-19 Sat­urday afternoon, riding the wings of the Hocket Man. 
The game, played on a soggy, dark afternoon, lived up to its billing as the top-ranked Irish battled the No.2 Wolverines to a close finish. 
Ismail's two kickoff returns for touchdowns in the second half were the best offense for the Irish, who played an extremely conservative game on offense. For his efforts, Is­mail was awarded the game ball by Irish head eoach Lou lloltz. 
"I told him I wish he could find it 
somehow in the budget to give a game ball to everybody who was on the kickofT return team," Ismail said, "because it would really be unfair for one person to receive the ball when there's actually 11 guys that made it all happen." 
Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 13 
The top-ranked Notre Dame foot­ball team won Saturday's game against Michigan State. 
The unfamiliar, mistake-prone, pressumd Irish mado tho game doso, as it took a fourth-quarter drive to settle the game at 21-13. 
"I think our guys will grow from this week," Notre Dame head coach Lou lloltz said. "They faced adversity wlwn things woren't going well. 
We played badly and kind of got frustrated and tried to do things that aren't built into the system. There were a lot of mistakes made during the course of the football gamo. We have an awful lot for work to do, we're just going to have to go forward." 
Wait a minute. who won this game? 
Give some credit to the Spartans, though. Playing without their leading ground-gainer, the Spartans turned to a passing attack to put a scare into the Notre Dame team that was an 18-point favorite. 
Notre Dame 40, Purdue 7 
WEST LAFAYETTE Notre 
Dame's top-ranked Fighting Irish 
spent a week hearing people question 
their abilities after last weekend's 
near-upset loss to Michigan State. 
Then they went out and answered just about every one of them in a 40­7 rout of a pitiful Purdue team that committed eight turnovers Saturday at Ross-Ade Stadium. 
In a game similar to last year's 51­7 rout of Purdue, the Irish jumped out to a 34-0 halftime lead, outgain­ing the Boilermakers 344-93, before letting their reserves get some game experience in the final 30 minutes. 
"They're the most talented group I've seen put together in a long time, maybe the best ever," said Purdue coach Fred Akers, who has been a head coach since 1975. "They are clearly the number-one team in the country." 
Notre Dame 27, Stanford 17 
PALO ALTO, Calif.-No one told Notre Dame about the change in the schedule Saturday. The Irish ex­pected Stanford. What they got was an air force. 
Notre Dame won the thriller 27-17, but Stanford quarterback Steve Smith gave the Irish fits, never let­ting up on an aerial attack that in­cluded 39 completions in 68 attempts for 282 yards. 
"We knew they were a passing team," said Irish free 56fety Pat Ter­rell, "but this was something we couldn't predict. In the secondary, you just have to hit them as soon as you can and let them know who hit them." 
Notre Dame 41, Air Force 27 
COLORADO SPHINGS, Colo. -The 
question finally was answered here 
Saturday night at Falcon Stadium. 
Air Force is good, but not good 
enough. 

A bigger and more talented Notre 
Dame team delivered that message 
via a 41-27 victory over the Falcons 
before a record crowd of 53, 533. 
In a game of big plays, the Irish 
turned in the bigger ones to move to 
6-0. It was the 18th consecutive win 
for Notre Dame and ended Air 
Force's dream of an unbeaten 
season and a possible national title. 
"Our team is very hurt and disap­
pointed," Air Force coach Fisher De­
Berry said. "We felt the stage was 
set for us to win, but we didn't play 
well enough to beat the national 
champions. I'm disappointed with 
the outcome, but proud of the 
effort." 

Notre Dame 28, USC 24 
For all the excitement Notre Dame and Southern California created on the field in a 28-24 Irish victory, the postgame talk centered on two inci­dents outside the tunnel leading to the locker rooms. 
The tryst everybody will remember came before the Oct. 21 contest, when a fight ensued as Southern California players tried to enter the tunnel as the Irish were running punting drills in the end zone. The episode had Irish coach Lou Holtz saying he would quit if such an event occurred again. 
"I sincerely apologize to Southern Cal," said Holtz. "I promise this will never happen again at Notre Dame regardless of who was at fault." 
But the Trojans also made a big mistake in that fateful Notre Dame Stadium tunnel, while both teams were exiting"" the field at halftime. And that error might have been what propelled the Irish to their seventh consecutive victory over Southern Cal. 
Notre Dame 45, Pitt 7 
The Notre Dame football team, after battling the media all week in the wake of the tunnel incident against USC, battled back on the field in defeating the seventh-ranked Pitt Panthers 45-7, in a game that was far easier for the Irish than had been predicted. "Pitt is a fine football team,"said Holtz,holding to form. "This is the first time we played a complete game as a complete team.! thought our football team played well and they played together. It was just one of our days.Pitt had an extra week to get ready for us but we did have an advantage the week we had seemed like a good month." 
Barring the first six minutes of the game where the Panthers, utilizing a no-huddle offense, marched down 68 yards to draw first blood in this bat­tle. But as far as Pittsburgh is con­cerned their highlight camera might as well be turned off at this time. It was all Irish after this point in the contest.The game was so one sided that Panther coach Mike Gottfried was so horrified by the loss he sug­gested that his team totally reevalu­ate itself. 
Notre Dame 41, Navy 0 
Five Navy football coaches, six 
U.S. Presidents and 26 years have come and gone since the Midshipmen last found a way to defeat Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame has played a school­
record 21 consecutive football games 
without finding a way to lose to any­
one. 

The beat went on for both of those 
streaks Saturday at Notre Dame 
Stadium, as Ricky Watters' 134 
yards led a 424-yard team rushing 
performance that drove the top­
ranked Fighting Irish, 9-0, to a 41-0 
shutout of the Middies. 
"I don't have anything to do with that; powers beyond me determine it," Uzelac said about Navy's willing­ness to continue a series in which it has lost the last 26 meetings. "When you win, you see some things very positive in the game. When you lose, no matter what happens, you don't really get much out of it." 
Notre Dame 59, SMU 6 

The Good. The Bad. And the Ugly. 
Notre Dame defeated Southern Methodist 59-6 Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium, as the Irish found a passing game and the Mustangs found they weren't quite ready to fact the No.1 team in the nation. 
The Good on Saturday was Notre Dame. The Bad was SMU. The Ugly was not only the final score, but the Irish efforts to keep themselves in check and not embarrass the Mus­tangs by scoring even more. 
That the Irish took four delay of game penalties to keep themselves from scoring was obvious enough, but Rusty Setzer's run out of bounds when he had a clear shot at the end­zone made Notre Dame's intentions all too clear. 
Notre Dame 34, Penn St. 23 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. -Penn State was eager Saturday to demon­strate a couple of reasons why Notre Dame had never won before at Beaver Stadium. 
The pregame weather forecast showed 15 to 20 mile per hour winds with a zero-degree wind chill (33-de­gree temperature). Blair Thomas, who had frozen Irish national championship hopes in 1987 with a career-best 214-yard rushing day, led Penn State to scores on its first two possessions and an early lead. 
But while Penn State had managed to win its four previous meetings here with Notre Dame, the Lions never had hosted an Irish team quite like this one. By the time the snow arrived in the second half, it fell on a Penn State offense watching on the sidelines as the Irish running game was burning the Lions' top-ranked scoring defense for a 34-23 victory. 
Miami 27, Notre Dame 1o 
On paper, it was a good football game. 
But they didn't play the game on paper. They played it in the Orange Bowl, and that made all the differ­ence in Miami's 27-10 win over Notre Dame, which knocked the Irish out of the top ranking, stopped a 23­game winning streak and gave the Hurricanes (1 0-1) the revenge they 
wanted from last season's Notre Dame win. 
"I tell you what, I've never been around a game like this," said Miami head coach Dennis Erickson. "It's the greatest win I've ever been associated with. You've got to give our football team a lot of credit, they gave a lot. We did some unbelievable things out there." 
"I really hate to lose," said a de­spondent Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz, "but if we had to lose, I'm glad it was to an outstanding foot­ball team." 
But three big plays, in which Miami executed and Notre Dame didn't, set the tone for the game, and the sharp, emotional Hurricanes dominated the Irish the second half. 
Media 
continued from page 2 
cized for letting the Irish players go home for Christmas. 
At the day-after press conference, lloltz pondered changing the way he deals with the press. Prior to the game, a reporter suggested that Colorado's de­fensive backs might be quicker that Miami's. Holtz said he didn't think any team could have defensive backs quicker than Miami's. 
"I pick up the paper the next day," Holtz said, "and I see the headline 'Holtz doubts Buffs' quick­ness.' " 
There is nothing wrong with the scramble for a better story, or an enticing headline. But the twist­ing and contorting, the dirty tricks and hanging on to every word in order to find something to exploit negatively, don't help the game. This isn't an accu­rate representation of the football teams and the football game, and it's a sad day when the perfor­mances of the media outshine the performances on the field. 
"I fpp) that if you play tail­yards rushing his senior year at Ned Bolcar. "It was a big moti­back in high school, when you Wilkes Barre (Pa.) Meyers High vational tool going into the 
eome into college and there's a School, gained 478 yards on 64 second half, knowing they trPrnendous offensive line in carries for the Irish during tire­couldn't put the ball in the end­
Rocket Defense 
continued from page 6 continued from page 6
front of you, and the coaching regular season. zone against us." And he was better than Holtz staff calls good plays, you "Hocket is a great player," "When it carne down to "I didn't think anybody could 
evor could have hoped when he shouldn't miss a beat," said said Colorado cornerback crunch time in the first half, we keep us out of the endzone like saw Ismail's injury on that De­Ismail. David Gibbs.· "lie's as good as I just dug a little deeper." said they did, but they did," said cembnr practice. Ismail, who gained over 2,000 thought he was." Irish linebacker and tri-captain McCartney. 

----~~~--------~--------------------------.-~----------------------------~ 
Friday, January 19, 1990 
The Observer page 9 
Accent 

Waiting for the return of ~~~~~~~~-in~meaningfulrela­
mate for the month, if you 
wish. 
But if you insist on searching 
through the raindrops for your 
own true love, then make the 
rainy season work for you by 
taking this advice: don't give 
any potential love partners 
more than a second look until 
you find out what they look like 
after they've been left out in the 
rain. A rain-soaked face gives 
up its secrets like a guilty 
conscience on judgement day. 
If the rainy season tries your soul in winter, the obvious an­tidote is to find love that is stronger than death. Where can you find a love for all seasons in this single season of sunless days when the earth's crust has turned soggy, sullen, and spongy from the inconvenient puddles of January? 
"At lovers' perjuries/ They say, Jove laughs," wrote Shakespeare. You should hope that Jove is tender in his regard for the lovers' perjury that promises love that is stronger than death, which seems well­nigh impossible, unless ·you happen to have a heart like Jove's. 
Hemingway's English nurse tells her lieutenant: ''I'll love you in the rain and in the snow and in the hail. I'll love you no matter how it is." He asks: "Why are you afraid of the rain?" She says: "Sometimes I see you dead in it." Frederic Henry tells us: "She was crying. I comforted her and she stopped crying. But outside it kept on raining." 
"A Farewel1 to Arms" ends with Catherine's death in child­birth. Frederic Henry's final words are: "It was like saying goodbye to a statue. After a while, I left the hospital and walked back to the hotel in the rain." 
Give not your hearts away in winter, when lovers' souls should grow lean with fasting, like hibernating bears. The win­ter rain is full of ghosts that haunt us in the shape of unre­membered loves that have come 
and gone like birds vanished from a lonely tree where once the summer sang. 
Yet laughing Jove is gracious. In the heart of the winter of our discontent, he sends lovers their feast day and their presid­ing saint, who keeps our hearts of flesh from turning to ice again after they have thawed once in the floods. February 14, St. Valentine's, should be pre­pared for with prayer and good works, so that that day of great grace will not find us un­prepared, as Easter does in a year when we have overlooked Lent. 
There are a diminishing num­bers shopping days left before young lovers and older lovers trade their hearts in a game like musical chairs. That's why I'm offering you this pastorai hint. If you're in the doldrums, trying to survive, read Donne's sonnet, "Death, Be Not Proud," and then visit Hallmark for the card of your choice for the sweetheart you'd like most to take home on a slow boat to China. 
You can tell me, if you like, "Terence, this is stupid stuff." But as they say in the land of the midnight sun, it keeps the lead in your pencil while you're waiting for the return of the days of wine and roses, when the soft summer rain falls in our lives as gently as the poetry of an Irish blessing. 
days of wine and roses 
The rain in winter may start feeding each other the pieces of you thinking of death and dy­a script. But I swear that this is ing, so please consider yourself the line the girls used to hand pastorally warned. The associ­me, and I've heard it at least a ation of winter wetness with half-dozen times. mortality is undoubtedly very The fun of it was that neither old. When I was a young man of you admitted that you were 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 


courting the girls, it was an idea that was apt to turn up on a date. At lunch, or on a moonlight stroll, the lass might tell you, ''I've always been afraid of the rain." 
Your answer was, "I like it." The other would reply, "I like to walk in it," and you would say, "You're not really afraid of the rain, are you?" 

Her great speech would be: ''I'm afraid of the rain, because sometimes I see me dead in it." The intensity of the announce­ment would be diminished by your awareness .that it was to­tally insincere. How could it not be insincere, since it was lifted word for word from Hemingway's "A Farewell to Arms?': 
In my day, everyone had read the book, or seen the movie, and couples used to play-act at being Lieutenant Henry, an American ambulance driver on the Italian front in World War I, and Catherine Barkley, his beautiful English nurse­though perhaps not con­sciously, as though they were 
stealing lines from a great war 
novel. You couldn't be sure 
what she thought she was doing 
when she told you, "I can see 
myself dead in the rain." 
Your role was to assure her, 
"I can keep you safe. I know I 
can." 
She would try to accept your 
offer, saying, ''I'm not afraid of 
the rain. I'm not afraid of the 
rain. Oh, God, I wish I wasn't." 
This fine display of pseudo­
emotion was a cue for you to 
comfort her in a manly way like 
the bravest soldier in a danger­
ous world. 
Just to let you see what the movies have come to, one of the women dated by the schlemiel­character whom Woody Allen always plays tells him, ''I'm afraid of the rain because sometimes I see me dead in it." He accuses her on the spot of trying to turn him on with pur­loined pathos from Hemingway's "Farewell." He thereby exposes her phoniness as though it were a mortal sin, totally opposed to the new sin­cerity and unblinking honesty Sexual mtlmacy, apparently, 
requires total openness as its 
cornerstone, since the dating 
game is now serious business. 
Whenever it's a drizzly November in his soul, Ishmael tells us in "Moby Dick," he sets out to sea as a substitute for suicide, for, he says, "Water and meditation are forever wedded." Death and rain are also physically intimate. That's why Hollywood loves to show • us those graveyard shots, where the mourners and next­of-kin are hovered together, under a roof of black umbrellas that hang together like an omi­nous cloud. 
As I write this, the Notre Dame weather has been rainy and gray for the past several days. The gloom doesn't do much for the climate of your soul, where the doldrums may have set in for the month of January. In London, where I spent Christmas, the radio sta­tions try to cheer up with a weather song, to help you sur­vive an overcast sky: "The sun had got its hat on. It's coming out to play...," but such silly symphonies don't keep away the thoughts of death and dy­ing. 
My own good advice is that you make your peace with the foul weather as though it were a fair-weather friend. Search the sidewalks to see if the earthworms are out ahead of the early birds that harbinger the spring. Or grab an umbrella and put on a raincoat, and go singin' and dancin', Gene Kelly­style, in the rain. 
But don't, whatever else you do, fall in love during the rainy season. Have dates. Meet new people. Find yourself a play­
• 
''Stick With The One You Know'' 
•
•
•
• • •


•
•
•

• Scotch Scotch 
Post-It

•• Mounting Wallsaver 
Memo Cubes
• 
Squares Tape

• (450 sheets)

• 
$.79 (Removable Poster tape) 


$2.99

•••• $1.95 
• •
•
• 




___._--------------------~~---~~--...-------~~--~­
page 10 The Observer Friday, January 19, 1990 
Michigan edges Ohio State 90-88 
ANN AHBOH, Mich. lAP) -up for Saturday's showdown free throws that put Indiana Heserve Demetrius Calip scornd with No. 4 Missouri with a 132-ahead to stay, and Pat Graham 12 of his 19 points in the 65 victory Thursday night over hit a critical 3-pointer in the s1~cond half Thursday night, Elizabeth City State. final minute as the 14th-ranked leading No. 6 Michigan to a 90-Kansas (19-0) took an 18-0 Hoosiers rallied to beat 88 Big Ten victory over Ohio lead against the Division II slumping Iowa 83-79 Thursday State. Vikings (1-12) for the second­night at 
It was the third game in six biggest winning margin in 
NC State 61 

days, all wins, for the school history. Wake Forest 57 Wolverines (H-2, 3-1 ). The Minnesota 97, WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.­Buckeyes 18-6, 3-2) are winless 
Northwestern 75 Hodney Monroe scored 23 
at Crisler Arena since 1984. 

MINNEAPOLIS-Willie points and Chris Corchiani had 
Ohio State, starting two 

Burton scored 19 points to lead 14 as No. 19 North Carolina freshmen, two sophomores and six Minnesota players in double State outlasted Wake Forest a junior. was led by Perry ligures Thursday night as the 61-57 in an Atlantic Coast Carter with 29 points, 21 in the 
·second half. 
Northwestern 97-75. night.
Illinois 7 4, 

Michigan State 63 Louisville 109, Evansville 59, 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill.-Marcus Tulane 96 Xavier 51 Liberty scored 26 points, NEW ORLEANS (AP) EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Chris including two free throws that LaBradford Smith scored seven Mack scored 20 points and started a 14-2 rally-killing points in just under three Evansville outscored No. 20 
\
second-half run, to lead minutes, leading an early 9-2 Xavier of Ohio 11-2 down the seventh-ranked Illinois to a 73-surge that gave 10th-ranked stretch for a 58-51 victory 64 Big Ten victory over Louisville a lead it never Thursday night in the Michigan State on Thursday relinquished in a 109-96 victory Midwestern Collegiate night. over Tulane on Thursday night. Conference. 
Evansville scored nine of
Kansas 132, 

those linal 11 points on free
Elizabeth City St. 65 Indiana 83, Iowa 79 
throws, missing only one foulLAWHENCE, Kan.-Top­
shot in the final 4:58 of theranked Kansas, getting 19 IOWA CITY-Eric Anderson game.
points from Tony Brown, tuned scored 18 points, including two 
Harper's injury continues Clippers' history of misfortune 
(AI'l -Thern are no four-leaf time coaching at Temple, I'd almost ended by a knee injury them to qualify for the lottery in 1986, they hadn't ewn come clovers in Elgin Baylor's office. been around the game almost 
he sustained playing softball in pick that got them Ferry, dose. And the failun~ of all No rabbit's foot. no horse's 30 years and never seen a knee an actors' league in New York. whose rights were dealt to those krwes, crucial as the mayshoe, but piPnty of X-ray get ruined ... the way Danny's It delinitely came to a halt the Cleveland to get Harper. plus seem in retrospect. was no 
pictures of playPrs' knens. If it 

did. Then to see them back to following year after a tendon several future draft choices. more responsible for tlw team's wasn't for bad lurk. as thn say­bark," he .added, "is almost problem within days of the Follow that? It's like saying a woes than tlw failures of tlH~ 
ing goes, Baylor would have no unbelievable." 
opening of the 1987-88 season. meal causes hunger. But there's organization.luck at all. Hut not in this franchise, And you wondered why Danny more. Looking at past drafts, it Because evPry time he gets where the most valuable guy 
Ferry, Los Angeles' top draft "Harper is a terrific talent, seemed the Clippers couldn't 
tlw snakebittPn Los Angeles could easily be the team's 
pick this year, was in such a and he just sort of ignited a scout talent. Once they got the Clippers pointl~d in the right di­orthopedic surgeon. 
hurry to get to Italy'? lin~. We've got a chance now to hang of it. though, they n~ction. someone opPns a trap Remember Michael Brooks, ''I'm not superstitious and 
see who comes to the front to couldn't figure out how to k•~epdoor bmwath him. the Clippers' No. 1 choice in there is nothing to this stuff keep the flame going," Baylor it. One year ago, Los Angeles 1980'? Hurt his knee during the about us being snakebitten," said. "That's how we found out For example, 19H1 No.1 pick
Clippers' general manager 1983-84 season and never Baylor said in a telephone in­Kenny Norman could play." Tom Chambers is still playingBaylor looknd on helplessly as played again. terview Thursday, The downside of the Norman ncar the top of his game ­
but Danny Manning took a fateful llow about Derek Smith'? "Unfortunately, the injuries to situation, it should be noted, is he's doing it in Phoenix. 
tumble in Milwaukee. This year, Tore up the league in 1984-85, 
Danny and Ron happened two that the two first-round picks Cummings, the No. I pick in Hon Harper did his falling tore up cartilage in his knee the years in a row. But I can't' see taken ahead of him in 1987, 1982, developed an irregularagainst Charlotte, but the re­next season and played only 11 
any reason to connect any of Heggie Williams of Georgetown heartbeat during his stay in sult was the same. games before shuffling off to those other things to what and Joe Wolf of North San Diego, got traded and is 
Like almost everyone else who the even more-hapless happened to anybody else. Carolina, were -what else'? -still causing heartburn for carne to the Clippers wearing a Sacramento Kings. 
That's just life. sidelined by injuries. plenty of opponents -though
tag marked "savior," Harper Marques Johnson, who cost 
"In fact," he continued, "If we were an Qrganization he's with San Antonio. 1983 will spend more time going to the Clippers perennial All Pro warming to the the task, that wins year-in and year-out, No. 1 pick Byron Scott is help­the doctor than going to the Terry Cummings'? Marques, it "something good has come out and we lost a player," Baylor ing Los Angeles significantly,basket. For some time to come. seemed, bumped into teammate of just about every down situa­said, "we wouldn't be getting but that would be the Lakers. 
"It's just plain weird," said Benoit Benjamin in the 10th tion I've encountered since I got this much attention." For all those reasons and Don Casey, who spent several game of the 1986-87 season, 
here. And I believe it will Exactly. But the Clippers more, it would be hard to seasons as an assistant and ruptured a disc in his neck, and again." haven't had a winning record underestimate how hearteningtook over head coaching chores 
hit the road soon afterward. Baylor cited Manning's injury since 1978-79, the first season Harper's play had been to long­
for the Clipp1~rs' coach within 
What of Norm Nixon, the guy as an example. Because they played in San Diego after a suffering Clippers fans. Since days of Manning's injury last who came over from the hated Manning was lost for the sea­long and very successful stretch he was acquired, the team was .January. Lakers for 1983 No. 1 pick son, the Clippers had a miser­in Buffalo as the Braves. 14-14 and Tuesday's game in 
"Between high school and my Byron Scott'? His career was able record, which enabled In fact, until Baylor's arrival Charlotte ended a 5-3 road trip. 

Michigan and Minnesota both came away with victories in Big Ten play Thursday night. In action involving West Coast Top 25 teams, Oregon State downed Washington State 79-64 and UNLV pounded Cal-Irvine 103-67. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

Word Processing 
Can return on disk 
Pick up and delivery 
271·9114 
USED TEXTBOOKS 
AT A DISCOUNT! 

Pandora's Books 233·2342 
corner ol N.D. ave. and Howard 
I LOST/FOUND 
GLASSES LOST·-BLACK CASE 
PLEASE CAlL STEVE x1581 
LOST SILVER ROSARY DURING FINALSII PLEASE CALL IF YOU FOUND IT-MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. X4286 
Are you a senior guy who got a packet of Senior Photos of a female? Then I probably have yours. Please call Sara al The Observer, 239-5303. 
WANTED 

Earn $300-$500 per week Reading books al home. Call 1· 615·473-7440 Ext. B340 
Earn $300·$500 per week reading books at home. Calll-615-473­7440 Ext. B340 HELP! Grad student needs babysitter Tues and Thurs AM fro 
9:15 to 12:45 in her home. 234· 0022 
WANTED ENTHUSIASTIC STUDENTS TO RUN TRIPS FOR SPRING BREAK. EARN FREE TRIPS AND COMMISSIONS. TRIPS INCLUDE DAYTONA BEACH, MEXICO, JAMAICA AND BAHAMS. IF INTERESTED PLEASE CALL TODD AT 1-800· 265·1799. STUDENT TRAVEL SERVICES. 
ATIENTION: EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLE WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 DEPT. P5868 
BE ON T.V. many needed for commercials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info. call (615) 779·7111 Ext. T-1481 
FOR RENT 

2 apts. available 
1 sludio on E. Jeff. 250 mo 
Apt with river view 395 mo 
includes utilities 233-7631-234-8743 
House for 1990-91 school year Furnished, secure home, 5 
bedrooms. WID 
Close to NO Coimpetitive rent. 264-6010 Seek Responsible Roommate 
Grad/Law/Fac/Staff · luxury 
condo, close to NO, reasonable 
239 5080, 272 9455 
FOR SALE 
1986 BUICK SKYLARK, 4·DOOR, 
AM-FM STEREO CASSETIE, 
44,000 MILES. POWER 
STEERING & POWER BRAKES. 
272·5651. MAKE OFFER. 
75 Volvo 164E. Classic slyling, high miles, some rust. $1200. Call 289-9067. Leave message. 
ncKETS 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S (Jan. 27) 
-parenls' anniversary x4352 
PERSONALS 
HELLO 
M. FELICIA PEACH!! 
& FIONA RODERICK!! 
LET'S MAKE LUNCH PLANS, OK? 
CP, j.o. 

Babysitter needed for 15 mo. old M-F or MWF orT·Th 8·12 or 1. Please call234·8743 SPRING BREAK SAILING BAHAMAS 45ft Captained Yachts Groups of Eight Seven Days Barefoot in the Bahamas $455.00 each All Accommodation & Meals SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE 1-800·999-7245 Anytime 
Looking for a fraternity, sorority of studenl organization that would like to make $500·$1 000 for a one week on-campus marketing project. Must be organized and hardworking. Call Joe or Myra at (800) 592-2121. 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal, confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864-5512 
MONICA A. BADAR You are a business goddess! Crank some major butt on Sat! Love, the Gang 
If you are taking these classes I can sell you the books cheaply: HIST "Women's Place in America" Prof. Hoy, GOTH lntro to Advertising Prof. Thurin. Call x3442. 
Only 3 more days until MCG lurns 21 !!I! Can we survive? Notre Dame will never be the same again!!! Watch out babe, there's more to come! -From the Goddess in Training 
Any male interested in trying out for Irish Accent's performance of See How They Run, memorize a 1· 2 min. mon. and be at Holy Cross Hall 7:00 Tues 23. Q? x3150. 
brad luetkenhaus: please come back. thank you. w. 
JUNIORS 
JUNIORS 

CHICAGO TRIP 1/27-1/28 
TIX ON SALE NOW AT 
JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE 
LIMITED SUPPLY 
DON'T MISS IT !I 

MARCH FOR LIFE 
in South Bend meet at K of C Hall815 N. Ml noon Sun 1/21 
hiag 

Joe reads LOVESWEPT 
Carrie GO!! Happy 21st Birthday!! from Tracy 

CARRIE, now that your 21, I guess you're not from Houston anymore. Tan! pis! Happy 21sl Birthday!!!! Love, 
Joe 

KERRY BROWN turns 20 on 
the 24th!!!!!!!!! 

And... SEAN BROWN tums 21 
on Feb. 8th!!!!! HAPPY B'DAY! 
RIGHT TO LIFE Phone-a-thon organizational meeting 9 pm Tues 1/23 Montgomery Theater LaF MANDATORY FOR DORM REPS 
CHILDREN AS YOUNG AS 7 ARE TORTURED BY THE POLICE IN SOUTH AFRICA. DO YOU CARE? 
COMING JAN. 25 

1 IN 5 ADULTS IN THE U.S. ARE 
FUNCTIONALLY ILLITERATE. 
DO YOU CARE? 
COMING JAN. 25 
• 

Friday, January 19, 1990 The Observer 
1 
I
Graf advances in Australian Open 1 
1 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) After finding out what it's shouldn't underestimate her. -Steffi Graf clunked her head like to be on the receiving end "In the beginning, I started with her racket and survived 39 of her own shot, Graf recovered playing my game and she was unforced errors Friday in the from a 1-3 deficit in the first the counter-puncher," Graf Australian Open while the set to win the next four games, said. "But as we played on, I "new" Graf, teen-ager Anke beat Soviet Leila Meskhi 6-4, 6-started playing higher and she Huber, succumbed to a twisted 1 and advance to the round of made more mistakes. The ankle. 16. second set is the way I should 
Graf, the two"time defending "I hit myself quite hard. play." women's champion, clutched Maybe it woke me up," Graf Huber, a 15-year-old West her head several times after said. German who shows much of the accidentally hitting herself with Graf praised Meskhi, saying promise Graf did at the same the most powerful forehand in the 22-year-old is "getting age, played a tough match women's tennis. tougher and tougher. You before falling to 13th-seeded 

Italian Raffaella Reggi, 7-5, 4­6,6-4. 
Ironically, Graf also was a 
third-round loser at the same age in the Australian Open. is looking for students interested in the following paid positions: 
Ihe.=Obser:ver 
Bomeets

John P. O'Malley 

Sales Representative 
Typesetters President
New Memberships or Transfers 
ILLI.Otl • IIDIAIIA 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Bo
Auto & Property Insurance 
Must be able to work with computers and 
CHICAGO 
Schembechler wasn't looking
AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
photo typesetting equipment. We will train. 
MOTOR 

for pitching help for his Detroit
5922 GRAPE ROAD
CLUB 

Tigers when he dropped by tlie 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
White House Thursday, but
For information, call 
MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
President Bush offered his ser­
Bernard Brenninkmeyer at 239-5323 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 
vices anyway. Schembechler, who recently
Please ask for John O'MIIey. 
became the Tigers' president and chief operating officer after retiring as head football coach at the University of Michigan, paid a 10-minute courtesy call on Bush in the 
Oval Office. 

The president gave Schembechler a White House tie clasp and an autographed pic­ture of Bush throwing out the 
Beforeyoubuya "ter 
itpaysto doyourllomeworl<. 
first ball for a major-league game. "To Bo Schembechler with 
07,000 Character Memory 0 Auto Center/Return 
great pride in your phenomenal record in football!" Bush's in­
024 Character Display 0 Relocate 
scription read. "Now in your0 Insert 0 Auto Underscore 
new work, can you use an old lefty."
0 Spell-Right" 50,000 Word 0 End of Page Warning 
Schembechler didn't accept Electronic Dictionary 0 Dual Pitch 
the offer. "He doesn't have a real high
0 Full-Line Correction 0 Bi-Directional Print 
leg kick," he said, showing the picture to reporters after the
0 Correcting Cassette 0 Stop Codes 
visit.

[2] Right Ribbon System'" 0 Memory Battery Back-Up 
A White House spokeswoman said Bush invited Schembechler 
0 WordFind" 0 Bold Print 
to Washington because0 List 0 Forward/Reverse Index 
Schembechler, who also was Michigan's athletic director,
0 WordEraser• 0 Auto Half-Space 
missed the basketball team's White House visit last spring after winning the national championship. 
The University of Michigan Alumni Club of Washington ar­ranged a luncheon for Schembechler after learning of the invitation. About 125 people attended. Afterward, Schembechler went to the White House. 
Joining him in the Oval Office were his wife, Millie; Tom Butts, the university's govern­ment relations director in Washington and Sue Richard, director of the alumni club. 
"It was great," Schembechler said. "We talked a little foot­ball, a little baseball." 
Did they discuss Michigan's loss in the Jan. 1 Rose Bowl? "Absolutely not," 
Schembechler said. "He cfutn't bring it up, and you can bet I wasn't going to bring it up." 
The mood was light, as the president joked that he and his wife had named the famous White House dog, Millie, after
Today's assignment is quite simple. And quite or the exclusive fumble-free Correcting Cassette on 
Mrs. Schembechler. 

rewarding. Just study the remarkable features of the anything but a Smith Corona typewriter. Smith Corona XD 5600 and compare them with Though we've packed all these features into a 
\leneedsomoooewith

other typewriters. portable that weighs under 14 pounds, we've been 
theronfidenreofaSDgteOD,
After all, how many comparably priced type­able to keep the cost equally lightweight. 
thededicationol .
writers give you word processing capabilities like The versatile Smith Corona XD 5600. It makes 
amarathonerandthe

Display and Memory, so you can edit, revise and buying a typewriter SMITI-1 
murageofantxplorer.

make your work letter perfect. And try and find the the easiest assignment CORON~ 
Yk need a P¥:ace Corps wlumeer. 

Spell-Right• 50,000 word Electronic Dictionary vou'll ever have. TOMORRONSTECHNOLOGY 
Call us atl-800-424-8580, Er.t. 9J. 

I AT'roURTOlJCli'" 
For more information on this product, write to Smith Corona Corporation, 65 Locust Avenue, New Canaan, CT 06840 or Smith Corona Canada, 440 Tapscott Road, Scarborough, Ontano, Canada MIB IY4. 




a 

page 12
I 
I 
J Tigers
I I continued from page 16 
talented. You just have to force hem into negative strmtks." 
This will be the last of a six­arne roadtrip for the Irish, ne that will have taken them 

;lore than 7,000 miles around the country. Notre Dame is 3-2 on the trip, with wins over Southern California, Boston College and Hutgers and losses to Creighton and La Salle. The team will play at home Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. against Wichita State. • 

Irish 
continued from page 16 successive buckets in the first several minutes after intermis­sion on her way to 16 second­half points. "Karen Hobinson is probably the best guard in the conference and one of the best I've seen," said Marquette coach Sister Maria Pares. "She's quick, she's heady, and she hit the shots when they rweded them." Marquette would not die easily. however. and turned the tables on Notre Dame in the second half with its pressure defense. The Warriors elosed the gap to 49-47 at the 8:44 mark behind the inside scoring of Tammy Shain ( 18 points) and lleidi Ach (20 points, 15 in the second hall). Davis slammed the door on Marquette's comeback attempts with 2:27 remaining in the contest when she delivered what McGraw later referred to as "the play of the game". Protecting a 70-60 lead, the junior forward stole a pass in­tended for Warrior point guard 
Notre Dame will counter Jackson with its own sopho­more sensation in LaPhonso Ellis. After missing the first seven games of the season be­cause of academic ineligibility, Ellis is regaining the form that made him a selection on the Freshman All-America team. lie is averaging 17.5 points per game, with a high of 27 against Southern California. 
"lie's making great strides, and he's starting to come around," Phelps said. 
Ellis is joined in double lig­ures by Keith Robinson at 16.2 points per game and Joe FrNiric'k at I ~.2. ElmPr 

Courtney Romeiser and drove the length of the noor for a layup, drawing a foul in the process. By converting the foul shot, Davis gave the Irish a comfortable 13-point cushion which they never relinquished. 
The game's gruelling pace eventually caught up to the visi­tors, and the Irish closed out the contest with a 14-4 spurt 
which accompanied their return 



have 2 hour shifts to fill. So if... 
-Your want to help provide a valuable community service to 
NDSMC 

-You can spare just a couple of hours of easy volunteer work in a nice study environment (the number and manner of handling calls is rarely demanding) -Your could use something extra to look nice on your resume or application to grad school (listening, psych majors?) 
... then ask for Bryan at the University 
Counseling Center or just leave a 
message. 239-7336 
• 
The Observer 

Bennett, Monty Williams and Jamen~ Jackson all average over eight points per game. 
NOTES -Sophomore guard Keith Adkins has transferred to Marshall in his native state of Kentucky. Adkins' decision was announced on Jan. 10 after he told the Notre Dame coaching staff he planned to transfer.. .Notre Dame has a 6-1 ledger in games played at New Orleans...The Irish are 4-3 in games played in domes...This is the first meeting between Notre Dame and LSU in men's basketball. ..The Irish are 20­33 against SEC opponents. 
to the etfective fast-break of­fense that worked so magnifi­cently in the first half. 
"A couple of times we let the up-tempo get the best of us," said Nowlin, "but mainly we kept control. connected on our break and kept our composure in the last 10 minutes, which was very important. 
"We feel we can run on most teams, especially those in our conference." 
~need someone with theronfidenreofa~, 
thededicationol 

amarathonerand the 
rourage ofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corp!~ volunteer Call us atl-800....24-8.580. E~~:t. 9l. 
PeaceCorps.
nw....,..,.,...lnnb<r 

Love. Mom & Dad Jim & Chris 
Good things don't always come in small packages . . . 
ThePrudential 


Comptroller's Organization 
If you're the best, looking to join the biggest . . . 
Come and explore your employment opportunities with America's leading financial institution. 
he Comptroller's Organization will be on campu interviewing students of .all majors. 
(Accounting, Finance, Liberal, etc.) 
Februrary 5 info session and reception, 7 PM Alumni Room Lower Level Morris Inn 
February 6 interviews at the Career Placement Office 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE 
Friday, January 19, 1990 The Observer 
page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
NVA has announced several upcoming deadlines. Interhall men's and women's doubles racquetball, teams racquetball and co-ree volleyball will have a Jan. 24 deadline. Sign up at the NVA office. Aerobics will begin Jan. 24 and 25. 
Cross country ski clinic for beginners will be held from 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday, Jan. 21 at Burke Memorial Golf Course. The cost is $4 with equipment rental available for $2. Deadline is Friday, Jan. 19. Sign up in NVA office. 
Bookstore Basketball will hold a meeting for those interested in being the commissioner at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the Notre Dame room of Lafortune. Call 234-9716 for more in formation. 
Irish outdoors will hold a meeting at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Jan. 30, at Theodore's. Plans for the upcoming ski trip will be discussed. Call 271-9901 for more information. 
Hapkido Club will meet at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday and 8 p.m. Thursday in room 219 of Rockne Gym. Call x3597 for more information. Beginners are welcome. 

ND tennis to meet Georgia, SMU 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
For the most elite collegiate tennis teams, the early part of the season is comprised of "warm-up" matches and tune­ups for conference play. For the Notre Dame men's tennis team, the first weekend on the schedule is anything but a for­mality. 
The Irish open their 1990 spring season today in Chicago's Midtown Tennis .Club for the American Airlines Classic. Notre Dame faces the second-ranked Georgia Bulldogs today at 1 p.m. and the very talented Mustangs of Southern Methodist University at 2 p.m. Saturday. 
"These two matches in the American Airlines Classic give us a great opportunity to play national teams and not have to travel far from school," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss. "Georgia and SMU are two of the five schools that dominated collegiate tennis during the 1980's." 
In the early part of the the 1988-89 season, the Irish trav­eled to the West Virginia Quadrangular and knocked off traditionally strong North Carolina. This victory cata­pulted Notre Dame tennis to new heights and established them at the national level. Bayliss and company are hoping this weekend will take the program one step further. 
Kidder, Peabody 
Will Be on Campus 
University of Notre Dame Monday, January 22, 1990 Upper Lounge University Club 
Presentation Beginning at 7:00pm Reception to Follow 

Second Year MBA Students Interested in Investment Sales 
Kdder, Peabody & Co. is a full-service investment banking and brokerage firm. We are a member of the prestigious General Electric organization-which gives us a measure of stability not enjoy~d by many of our competitors. 
We have openings on our National Sales team for Investment Sales Associates. 
If you are an entrepreneur with analytical and sales ability, business savvy, people skills and sales acumen-we can offer you: 
• 
a chance to make a long-term career commitment to a quality ftrm 

• 
a new state of the art Investment Sales Training Program­the most extensive and sophisticated in the business 

• 
a superior compensation package that includes a competi­tive base and incentives 


' Positions exist throughout our 40 branch national network. 
We cordially invite you to attend our presentation and reception. We are eager to discuss what we think you can bring to the firm ... ...and what you can expect in return. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Aspirations are high for the 1990 Notre Dame tennis team. Notre Dame is ranked fourth in the Midwest region, ahead of perennial Midwestern powers Michigan and Northwestern. To add fuel to the fire, 11th­ranked Southern California barely got past the Irish 5-4 in Notre Dame's only fall dual match. 
The Irish go up against the top collegiate singles player in the nation this weekend ­Georgia's AI Parker. Georgia returns four of its top seven players from last year's NCAA tournament team. 
"Georgia is not going to daz­zle you," said Bayliss. "But they are solid and do not have any holes in their lineup. They are pretty even all the way down their lineup. I think we have reached the point that if we play great, then we can win. It will take nothing less than great play on our part to win against Georgia." 
The matchup of the No. 1 se~ds -DiLucia vs. Parker-is an interesting battle between two different types of players. DiLucia, ranked 44th in the na­tion, is a serve-and-volley player, while Parker is renowned for his excellent groundstrokes and passing 1 shots. 
"Parker is a formidable op­ponent for David, but (DiLucia) should not be afraid of him, " says Bayliss. "They played to­gether on the national team, so they know each .other pretty well." 
SMU is not as strong as in years past, but the Mustangs still provide an excellent test for the youthful Irish squad. SMU's record includes a vic­tory over the 25th-ranked Kansas Jayhawks. 
The Mustangs will be without the. services of top-seeded player Tim Tregirro. Tregirro is awaiting the NCAA's decision regarding his eligibility status. The NCAA is investigating whether or not he accepted prize money from a summer tournament. 
"This should be a close match," said Bayliss. "The strength of SMU's lineup lies in their top four positions. They are weaker at five and six. To beat SMU would be a major step for Notre Dame. Beating a traditional power just like North Carolina might signal a changing of the guard. Coming out this weekend with a split would be a big accomplish­ment." 
Hornets get first road win 

DENVER (AP) The 
Charlotte Hornets, getting four 
of Kelly Tripuka's 28 points to 
hang on in the final minute, 
won their first road game in 17 
tries this season. The Hornets, 
the last NBA team to win on the 
road, also ended their six-game 
losing streak. 

Denver rallied from a seven­
point deficit in the last 2:05 to 
tie the game. A 3-pointer by Fat 
Lever, a drive-in by Michael 
Adams and two free throws by 
Todd Lichti made it 104-104 
with 57 seconds remaining. 

Dell Curry, who had 20 points 
for the Hornets, broke the tie 
with a pair of free throws with 
49 seconds left. Tripuka hit a 
16-footer from the left baseline 
with 22 seconds remaining, but 
Bill Hanzlik pulled Denver to 
108-107 on a 3-pointer with 19 
seconds left. 

A backcourt violation by the Hornets with nine seconds remaining gave Denver another chance. 
Friday, January 19, 1990
page 14 The Observer 
NO hockey goes 4-4 during injury-plagued road stretch 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team weathered both insult and in­jury to post a 4-4 record on a midwinter road swing over Christmas break. 
The insult, courtesy of an overzealous goal judge at Cadet Ice Arena, gave Air Foree a 4-3 overtime victory over the Irish on Jan. 3. The goal judge 11ashed the red light to signal a goal and sudden death for the Irish even though it appeared that goalie Lance Madson had smothered a shot by Mike Veneri of the Falcons before it reached the goal line. 
Heferee Mark Handolph con­curred with the goal judge, and although Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer and his players stormed the ice to protest, the game was over, and the Falcons had earned a split of their two-game series with the Irish. Notre Dame had won the previous night by a 4-2 score, but the second game was the one which concerned Schafer. 
"The videotape clearly shows that (Veneri's shot) was not a goal," argued a disappointed 

Schafer, "It W{lS just very  un­ 
fortunate  that  we  lost  like  
that."  

The injuries also are most unfortunate. First, freshman defenseman Eric Gregoire suf­fered a collapsed lung in a game against Minnesota­Duluth. Gregoire is out for the season. 
Then, forwards Bruce Guay and Dan Marvin injured their 

Sterling Black 

shoulders. Guay got hurt in the controversial loss to Air Force and missed four games. Marvin was sidelined during a 3-2 vic­tory over Kent State. 
In their absence, freshman left wing Tom Miniscalco has. picked up the slack. Miniscalco scored three goals in a two­game sweep of Arizona, as the track just two days after the Air Force disaster. Schafer's squad smashed the Wildcats 8­2 on Jan. 5 and 8-6 on Jan. 6 
"Tom Miniscalco has worked hard for us," praised Schafer, "Since Marvin, Guay and Gregoire are out of the lineup, players (like Miniscalco) who have been on the periphery for us are getting a chance to play now." 
In the second game against the Wildcats, freshman Sterling Black set a Notre Dame record for the quickest goal at the start of a period when he· scored just 13 seconds into the game. He struck again 12 sec­onds later, and the rout which ensued was not nearly as close as the final score. 
The Irish opened their trip with a 9-3 loss to the second­ranked Wisconsin Badgers in the Milwaukee Tournament. Notre Dame was simply out of its league, as the Badgers pep­pered Madson with 38 shots in front of the largest crowd (13,380) ever to witness a Notre Dame hockey game. 
Madson and company had an equally difficult task the follow­ing night, as they faced WCIIA power Minnesota-Duluth. The only consolation for the Irish in 
Irish got back on the winning a 9-1 loss to the Bulldogs was 
Swimmers adjust after Florida trip 
By JANICE ARCHER Sports Writer 
Tlw Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams returned from an intense training trip in Florida to mixed results in meets last week against Northwestern and Ball State. 
Notre Dame now begins a challenging stretch in its schedule with a meet today at Northern Illinois. 
The ten-day trip took the teams to tlw prestigious International Fitness Center in Orlando and to Mission Bay in Boca Baton. Notre Dame was one of 66 college teams from across the country at work in these state-of-th1~-art outdoor facilities. providing an atmosphere of constant train­ing. 
"We gained so much from being together all the time," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. 
The Irish spent four to five hours a day practicing. but the teams still found time for trips

• to Walt Disney World and Sea World. 
The Irish traveled to Williams turned in double
,................., 
i i

• 

i
•14~... •
of 
20" Discount 
except sale items 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 

DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
University Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

·~··~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Northwestern on Jan. 12 for a 
tri-meet against their hosts and 
Creighton University. The 
men's team won· their meet, 
with a victory in the 400-yard 
medley relay by the talented 
team of Tom Whowell. Tom 
Penn, Ed Broderick and Bill 
Jackoboiee. The women came 
out with a split decision by de­
feating Creighton and falling to 
Northwestern. 

"I'm very pleased with the 
way we swam," said Welsh. 
"This meet was a test to see if 
we could get back into the rac­
ing frame after such a long, in­
tensive period of training. The 
meet against Northwestern is a 
great one for our schedule. and 
I hope to keep the series going." 
The difficulties in making the 
transition from a training 
period to a racing one he1:ame more apparent in the next day's meets with Ball State. The men suffered their first loss of the season, falling 138-105. The women fared no better, losing 182-111, but seeing excellent performances from talented freshman Tanya Williams. 
victories in the 200-yard indi­vidual medley and the 200-yard butterfly, setting a new pool record. 
"The wheels fell of the cart for that day," said Welsh. "To their credit, Ball State was very well prepared for us, and it was clear that our swimmers were fatigued after the long trip." 
The Irish have been emphasizing fundamentals such as technique and turns during this week of transition. Beginning today with an away meet in Northern Illinois, the teams face a grueling schedule against strong opponents. 
Because final exams ended late this year, there were no al­ternatives to ending the season with many meets scheduled closely together. Upcoming op­ponents include Cleveland State and St. Bonaventure. 
Guay's goal with 8:32 left in the game, which prevented Duluth goalie Chris Erickson from recording a shutout. 
"It would have been nice if we had made a game of it (against Duluth or Wisconsin), but those teams are extremely powerful. They were just too 

Tom Miniscalco 
good," says Schafer. 

Schafer then took his team to Air Force and Arizona before concluding the trip at Kent 
For rhe Facts call }Uur lo.:al Red Cross. or -.Tire· 
AIDS 
+

American Red Cross ~ W..Shingron. DC 20006 
State on Jan. 12-B. The weary Irish managed to split with the Golden Flashes, winning the first game by a 3-2 score, but losing the second 4-1. 
Second-period goals by Black, 
Curtis Janicke and Dave Bankoske allowed Notre Dame to overcome a 1-0 first-period deficit in th1~ first game. Janicke and Black each added an assist in that game. 
The Irish took a 1-0 lead the next night when Pat Arendt scored from Tim Kuehl and Mike Leherr in the second period. The Flashes took con­trol from that point on, with Jeff Dash scoring two goals and recording an assist to lead his team to a 4-1 victory. 
The 4-4 road trip brought Notre ·name's record to 14-8 on the season. Tlw Irish will play their first home series of the decade when they meet Army at the Joyce ACC at 7:30 p.m. Jan. 26-27. 
. WE'D LIKE TO 

REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTilUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTilUTION 
·llw ,,..,rJ, "'" lil-t· t-r.· 

The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street Mishawaka 
259-6322 
Hours 7 30 a.m. ·9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
WASHER§ ONLV 85:¢ 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
Pick-up. wash. dry. fold. deliver SAME DAY SERVICE 
I I I 
:$2.00 OFF:$1.00 OFF 
I  I  
: II  any CD NOW..tiT EXCLUDES SALE lfi!.M$ 4ND USED  : II  any tape NO LIMIT EXCLUDES SALE •I I'M$ AND USED  
I  EXPIRE$  1128190  .  I  EXPIRES  1128/90  
I  I  

~rNE~VJ IREliEP\~ES roN 0~\lE~ r»~V~O ~QW~E ~HE~~~~SlUJES They Might be Giants -"Flood" GOM~~G Jl\~. ~ cg~ ~#\liE Peter Murphy-"Deep" 

CD, tape & LP 
Joan Jett -"The Hitlist" 
NCOW 0~ i£~lJE 
Acid Horse Mussolini Headkick 

Nine Inch Nails Hopscotch Army -"Blurry" T-shirts, giant posters, magazines 
(Free Waxtrax stickers with purchase) 
~ 
I 

"Space Oddity" 
Edison Road -----+---­
~ 
Towni..Counffy Shopping Cenl-. 

----lll-----"_il ~~ ~-..,
n-! 
:f 

"HunKy Dory" "The Man Who Sold the World" 
:§J:.\lE~ 
$2.00 OFF USED CD'S! $3.00 OFF T-SHIRTS! 
(sale ends 1/21/90) Friday, January 19, 1990 

The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD .. 
Friday, January 19 
Urban Plunge Reflection Papers due. Center for Social Concerns. 
4:30 
p.m. Lecture, "Computational Aspects of Commu­tative Algebra," by Professor Lorenzo Robbiano, Univer­sity of Genoa and Visiting at Queens University. Room 226 Math Building. Coffee in Room 201 at 4 p.m. Sponsored by the Department of Mathematics. 

4:30 
p.m. Viola Recital. By Victoria Chiang, assistant professor of music at Notre Dame. Annenberg Audito­rium. Sponsored by the Department of Music. 


6:30 p.m. Urban Plunge Follow Up Meeting. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by Center for Social Con­cerns. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Cheeseburgers 
Veal Marengo 

Hot Turkey Sandwich 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
CAL'JI~, '(OJ l(~'t-1 "!()J'R£ ~OT ALL<YNm TO EAT COOI::IES BHOR£ DINNER! 
~ P\Jf 1\\<Y:;t. AWt>-i! DID iO'J cLg,~ '(OIJR ~t-\ iET ? 
) 
001-\,SO~'C:. 
Df>-'15 1\\t>.\ K\0 Or tJ\1~£ ... 


ACROSS 1 Screenwriter Lehman's "Family-" 5 Funny-bone location 10 Eastern bishop's 
title 14 Racing sled 15 Third-largest E 
African lake 16 U.S.'s most abundant energy 
source 17 Cru1s1ng 18 Lehman's "Hello, 
-1" 

19 Nat or Natalie 
20 Lehman's 1965 award film 
23 Before, to the Bard 24 Swiss river 25 Group of lions 28 Bridge builders' concerns 33 Hank of twine 34 Fasten 
37 "He-runs may read": Tennyson 
38 Suffix with hero 39 More bashful 40 Ike's W.W. II 
command 41 Cooks in a 
microwave 43 Most cunn1ng 45 Suffix with 
mountain 46 Opposite of hibernate 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

48 Pillage; plunder 50 "Bei-Bist Du Schoen," 
1937 song 51 Bill of expenses 52 Lehman's 
"Who's Afraid 
61 Pocket billiards 62 Some exams 63 Having wings 64 Fourth of 
HOMES 65 Chores 66 Levitate 67 Sparks and 
Beatty 68 Bristles 69 Bestow lavish 
affection 
DOWN 
1 Map of a city 2 Luxuriant 3 Curved molding 4 Annoyed 5 Clothe 6 Ben, Sue or 
Francis of films 7 Like a pilgarlic 8 Kon-Tiki Museum 
site 9 "Canterbury Tales" group 10 "0 time most -"·Shak. 11 Shouts disapprovals 12"-Ha'i," "South Pacific" song 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

13 Sauce made from herrings 21 Mine finds 
22Ginnie­(Government security) 
25 Lehman's "The " 26 Indian princes 27 Awkward 28 Lehman's "Executive--" 29 Encephalartos, e.g. 
SPELUNKER 

30 Diaphanous 31 Trencherman 32 Lehman's "The 
Inside--" 35 Cooked snails 36 Impatient sound 42 Some tropes 44 Melt 47 Cato or Cicero 490na 
windjammer 51 Metal plate for Galahad 
52 Candid 53 Prefix with hand 
or foot 54 Annul 55 "Dies--" 56 Tweed twitter 57--Chase, 
author -actress 58 H1ghly spiced stew 59 Shoemaker's work block 60 Emancipate 
JAY HOSLER 






.. 
Scientific meat markets. 


Sports 
Friday, January 19, 1990
page 16 

Irish run past MCC foe Marquette 
run capped by Nowlin's layup
By FRANK PASTOR Assistant Sports Editor 

off a feed from Hobinson. After lighting back to within For a team short on bench three points, Marquette ( 3-1 0, support, the Notre Dame 2-2 in MCC) suddenly developed 
women's basketball squad's up­a propensity to turn over the tempo, run-at-all-costs ap­ball midway through the half. proach to Thursday night's and the Irish transition gamn game against Marquette might took over, staking Notrn Dame 
seem suicidal. 
to a 23-14 lead. 

Decimated by injuries since The Warriors, aided in large early in the season, the Irish part by Notrn Damn's failurn to conv1~rt on inside shots, rallied
dressed only eight players for 
toward the end of the half to
the game. Still, it was the 
narrow the margin to 31-27,
Warriors who looked dis­traught after Notre Dame ran necessitating a change of
Karen Robinson 
strategy for the Irish.

them inside-out on the way to an 81-64 Midwestern Collegiate Point guard Karen Hobinson "We wern getting the brnak, Conference victory. scored 22 points and paced the but we wen~n't converting on 
"That's the way we've been transition game during 33 it." said Hobinson. playing," said Notre Dame minutes of play to lead thrne "I told Karen to shoot tlw coach Muffet McGraw, whose Irish scorers in double ligures. fre1~-throw jump1~r in thl' sec­squad stayed undefeated in the Forwards MargarPt Nowlin ond half if they wem giving it to 
MCC and upped its overall and Krissi Davis were tlw main her." said McGraw. "Siw was record to 9-5. "Because of the beneficiaries of Hobinson 's ere­overdribbling and looking a lit­transition game, when we can alive passes off the fast break, tle t01i much for tlw post play­run we'll get a bunch of points scoring 20 and 18 points, re­ers in the first half." 
Hobinson imnwdiatl'ly took
in a hurry. When we have to spectiwly. 
the message to heart, sinking
run the half-court offense, I Notre Dame jumped out to an think we slow down a little bit 11-4 lead in the game's first and get out of our rhythm." three minutes, following a 7-0 see IRISH/ page 12 
Big crowd expected in Big Easy 
NO looking to upset Louisiana State at Superdome 
will play in the Super Bowl next three NCAA records -most
By GREG GUFFEY 

Sunday at New Orleans. points by a freshman in one
Assistant Sports Editor 

"To play in New Orleans with game (55), most points by a NEW OHI.EANS -It dnlinitdy over 60,000 people, I think it's freshman in a season (965) and will bH the biggest ganw thus just one of those things that highest scoring average by a far this season for the Notre happens, and we're part of it," freshman (:{0.2 points per game).
Damn men's basketball team. Notre Dame coach Digger The only question is if it will bP Phelps said. "You don't worry Jackson has been outstanding thn biggnst crowd in thn history about the crowd once the game again for the Tigers this sM­
of college basketball. starts. To be in there the week son, leading the team in scoring The Irish will fan~ 13th­before the Super Bowl, it's like in 11 of 13 games. He had a we're going to kick off Super season high of 51 in a 124-113
ranked I.SU Saturday in the 
Bowl week." win over Texas and averages
Superdome. Tipoff is slated for 
28.9 points per game.

4 p.m. EST (CBS, channPI 22 lo­The Irish will have a big task 
cally). in trying to defeat the Tigers, But Jackson is not a one-man Game organizers hope to at­11-2 overall and 4-1 in the show for the Tigers. He is trad more than 65,000 fans, Southeastern Conference. LSU's joined by three other Tigers in which would be the largest only losses came to Kansas 89-double figures Stanley H3 in the pre-season NIT tour­Roberts at 16.3 points and 11.9
crowd to ever watch a college game. The present mark was ney and H7 -80 to Mississippi rebounds per game, Shaquille O'Neal at 15.5 points and 11.7
set at the 1987 Final Four in StatP. in the SEC opener. The 
New Orleans. when 56,707 saw Tigers have raced through their boards and Wayne Sims at 10.0 the games in the Superdome. last four games, over SEC foes points. Roberts and O'Neal are both listed at 7 -foot in the LSU
Last season, when I.SU upset Auburn, Tennessee, Kentucky 
and Vanderbilt. press guide, while Sims is also
Georgetown 82-80 in the Superdome, there were 66,144 The biggest challeng(~ for the a force inside at 6-foot-7 and 250 pounds. 
.. tickets sold and 54,:{21 fans at Irish will be in controlling LSU 
sophomore sensation Chris "I said in the preseason that
the game. Notre Dame played before Jackson. Last season, Jackson LSU is one of the premier teams in the country," Phelps
40,128 fans against Louisville was just the second freshman 
said. "They're big, strong and
in the Big Four Classic. Making ever to be named an Associated the game even more special is Press first-team All-American. that San Franr.isco and Denver lie finished the season with 
see TIGERS I page 12 
ND selects defensive coordinator 
By KEN TYSIAC  and the very best that can be  Darnell also happens to agree  
Sports Writer  done.  with Notre Dame head coach  
"In my collegiate experience,  Lou Holtz' assertion that speed  
Former Florida interim head  after twenty-one years of  is the most important physical  
coach and defensive coordina­ (coaching), this is something I  asset to a team on the football  
tor Gary Darnell was named to  really need to do right now," he  field.  
succeed Barry Alvarez as de­ continued. "There's a degree of  "As a defensive team, you can  
fensiw~ coordinator of the  integrity I had to maintain  defend anything the offense  
•  Notre Dame football team Thursday.  along the way to warrant the invitation to even be here."  does except speed, and offensively you can block any­ 
Darnell served as head coach  Darnell worked as Florida's  thing they put up in front of  
of the Gators this past season  defensive coordinator in 1988  you except speed," said Darnell.  
after Galen Hall resigned on  and 1989, until he took over the  "Speed is the one thing that you  
Oct. 8 in the wake of an NCAA  head coaching job. The Gators  just can't counter."  
investigation. Darnell guided  ranked third nationally in total  "The one thing that's pretty  
the Gators to a 3-4 record and  defense each of those years.  obvious is that Notre Dame had  
before being replaced by Steve  Darnell's Florida teams used  better be the very best they can  
Spurrier on a permanent basis.  the same basic defensive align­ be every time they play next  
Florida finished the season at 7-5 after a loss to Washington  ment that the Irish have used under Alvarez, who left Notre  year." he said Darnell's hiring fills one of  
in the Freedom Bowl.  Dame after the Orange Bowl to  three vacancies on the Irish  
become the head coach at  staff. Notre Dame also must  
."When you come to Notre  Wisconsin. It is likely that un­ replace former running back  
Dame, number one, it's a great  der Darnell the Irish will con­ coach Jim Strong, who accepted  
honor, and number two, it's a  tinue to employ the "Eagle  the head coaching spot at Photo courtesy LSU Sports Information  



great responsibility,"  Darnell  Defense,"  which  features  a  UNLV,  and  former  defensive  One of the  most-talked-about college players  smce  Pistol  Pete  
said. "When we take the field,  three-man line,  a  rush end,  a  line coach John Palermo, who  Maravich lit up the Bayou, Chris Jackson is coming off an All-America  
people expect to see the pinna­cle of collegiate preparation  drop end, two middle lineback­ers and four defensive backs.  has signed on as head coach at Austin Peay.  season. This year, Jackson shares the spotlight at LSU with a pair of inside scoring threats -Shaquille O'Neal and Stanley Roberts.  




