
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1990
VOL XXIII NO 88 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Total Number of Voters: 4114 
The Observer/ Bradford J. Boehm 
Pasin and Sanchez go to Wednesday run-off 
By PETER LOFTUS 
News Writer 
A run-off election for student body president and vice presi­dent has been scheduled for this Wednesday, since no ticket captured 50 percent of the vote in the election held Monday. 
4.114 students cast their votes Monday, the biggest turnout in election history, ac­cording to Tom Hask, Election Committee chairman. 
The ticket of Hob Pasin and Fred Tombar received 1.863 votes. 45.3 percent of the bat-. lots. The ticket of Vinny Sanchez and Melissa Smith re­ceived 1,152 votes. 28 percent of the vote. Pasinffombar and Sanchez/Smith will be the two tickets in the run-off election. 
The ticket of Mark Betten­court and Kevin Craig received 621 votes. 15.1 percent of the vote. The ticket of Sigi Loya and Haja Singh received 488 votns, 11.9 percent of thn vote. 
"Wn're very happy with the record turnout of voters," Pasin said after the results werP announced at 9 p.m. in the Student Government office in LaFortune. 
"It shows people are inter­ested in what's going on," Tombar said. 
"We commend the other tick­ets for a job well done," said Pasin. "Now we're going to get out and campaign as soon as we can." 
Pasin said that he and Tombar planned to do as much door-to-door campaigning as possible before the run-off elec­tion. 
"We're very pleased to be in the run-off election," Smith said. She said that she and Sanchez were going to start campaigning as soon as possi­ble. 
"It's not over until Wednes­day," said Sanchez. 
Smith said that her ticket hoped to get more people out to vote. She and Sanchez hope to sway to their side the students who did not vote in Monday's election, Smith said. 
"We're always confident until 
the end," Sanchez said. 
The run-off election will be 
held Wednesday between 11 
a.m.-1 p.m. and 5 p.m.-7 pm. 
Hask said that the campaign 
race went well and that any 
problems which arose were mi­
nor compared to past years. 

Student Senate calls for consistent JPW policies 

By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Writer 
The cancellation of the 
Freshman Class Formal was 
based on unspecific regula­
tions regarding .Junior Par­
ents' Weekend and was im· 
posed after minimal input by 
the students involved, ac· 
cording to a resolution 
passed by Student Senate on 
Monday. 
"Inconsistent residence hall policies··• were the main cause of the cancellation, ac­cording to the resolution. Some rectors, for example, questioned students' rights to have social gatherings in­volving alcohol consumption that weekend. 
The resolution requests that the Office of Student Af. fairs specify what events can be planned during the week· end and "issue a consistent written statement concern­ing residence hall policies during Junior Parents' Weekendff regarding alcohol consumption and parietals. 
A lack of communication between the Office of Student Affairs, the Student Activities Office and Student Government was apparent in the fact that the decision to cancel the formal was made without the knowledge of the Freshman Class Council, ac­cording to Lynn Ramsay, Freshman Class President. 
The resolution states that the issue of communication will be turned over to the Campus Life Council. who will formulate a more spe· cific proposal to improve student input on student-re-··• lated decisions. 
Due to the cancellation, 
the sophomore class has>ex-·••· tended an invitation to freshmen for "JPW Escape," a weekend trip to Chicago on Feb. 17 and 18. The cost of­the trip is $60 and includes transportation, lodging, tickets to Second City· and extra time for sightseeing. 

Mandela defends ANC policies 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Nelson Mandela said Monday he seeks a South Africa that is fair to both whites and blacks, and he in­sisted that violence against apartheid is justified. 
The 71-year-old black leader, enjoying his first full day of freedom after 27 years in prison, defended the policies of his African National Congress but said talks with the govern­ment could be held soon. 
In his nearby hometown of Soweto, schools were deserted as thousands of students marched and danced in the streets, anticipating his return home. Believing Mandela was due back for an afternoon rally, tens of thousands of Sowetans crammed into a soc­cer stadium, and dozens were injured in the crush. 
The activists making ar­rangements for Mandela. de­cided he should not re-enter Soweto until Tuesday, when a massive welcoming rally was planned. They refused to dis­close where he would spend the night, although television net­works deployed helicopters to pursue him. 
"I am absolutely excited to be out." Mandela told reporters in Cape Town before taking an evening flight to Johannesburg. He was released unconditionally on Sunday. 
Mandela said negotiations between the ANC and the gov­ernment could begin "very soon" if President F.W. de Klerk continues his peace ini­tiative and makes further re­forms. 
"The state of emergency has to be lifted in its entirety, and political prisoners have to be released," Mandela told more than 200 journalists assembled on the lawn outside the official residence of Anglican Arch­bishop Desmond Tutu in Cape Town. 
Andries Treurnicht, leader of the pro-apartheid Conservative Party, accused the government of falling victim to "Mandela 
hysteria" and moving toward 
white surrender. Eugene Ter­
reBlanche, leader of the neo-Nazi Afrikaner Resistance Movement, said de Klerk is now powerless to control Mandela, and he warned that his move­ment "will protect itself and its property when the government can no longer do so." 
Mandela said whites should not fear the prospect of an ANC-Ied government. 
"Whites are fellow South Africans. We want them to feel safe." he said at his news con­ference. 'The ANC ... will find a solution that will suit both blacks and whites." 
The ANC seeks a one-person, one-vote system. which would be dominated by South Africa's 28 million blacks. de Klerk seeks to negotiate a new consti­tution that would establish some political rights for blacks, but provide the 5 million whites with some sort of veto over major decisions. 
Police reported about 30 deaths in unrest around the country since daybreak Sunday, including a clash between police 

see AFRICA I page 4 

AP Photo An injured white African National Congress supporter is assisted after being injured during disturbances in downtown Cape Town on the release of ANC leader Nelson Mandela Sunday. Crowds clashed with police as they grew restless awaiting Mandela to address them in the city center. 
ND Mock Trial preps for nationals 

By JOHANNA KELLY 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Mock Trial Association, an undergraduate group affiliated with the Pre­Law Society, is participating in the national competition at Drake University Law School in Des Moines, Iowa, on February 16-18. 
"This is the first year Notre Dame has ever participated in the nationals," said Megan Hines, a senior member of the team,"That's why this is so ex­citing." 
There are approximately 69 teams entered in the competi­tion, with each team consisting of six students. Notre Dame is sending eight students who will each take part in some portion of the trial, said Hines. The majority of the students are se­niors as. a result of conflicts with Junior Parents Weekend, Hines added. 
The group has been practic­ing since August, Hines said. The participants practiced role­playing and were helped by sev­eral local lawyers and Notre Dame alumni. David Cosgrove and Kathy Zelenock, third year law students, also greatly aided the group, Hines said. 
''I'm very impressed with the dedication." said Hines. 
At the national competition, the teams will be evaluated on their merit and performance, with performance taking pref­erence, Hines said. The team with the best record, verdicts included, will take top honors. 
''I'm sure that our prepara­tion will pay off." said Hines. 
The advisor of the Mock Trial Association is Robert Waddick, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. The trip is jointly funded by Student Activi­ties, Arts and Letters, and the Pre-Law Society. The team will hold a dress rehearsal in preparation for national com­petition tonight from 7 to 9 
p.m. in the Law School Audito­rium. 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
To go to 'Brare or not is option 

worth studying 
It's a lovely Satur­day afternoon, but I must study. Studying 
in my room is out of Peter Loftus 
thn qunstion, with a VCH, video games, a News Copy Editor TV and an electronic knyboard as alterna­tives. So I go to the llesburgh Memorial Library (the 'Brare for lazy types) --------­becausn it has few or no distractions. 
I arrive at about 2 o'clock, elimb the stairs and do laps around thn sncond floor. I look for a tabln to sit at, but can't find any. 
I look for people I know, and find a few. 
I say the same thing to each person ("What're you studying? What'd you do last night? What're you doing tonight?"). I'm brilliant at eonversation. 
For a change. I decide to get a study room. I set up camp and realize it's time for a study break. 
I descend into the smoke-filled pit and buy a Dr Pepper. Then I call my room on the campus phones. Nothing's new. 
Back in the seeludnd study cell. I ponder what to write about. No ideas come up. Guess it's timn for another study break. 
UNLOC's always fun. I sit down and begin to experiment with the "key word" mode. 
I find that "k=washington" has the most entrins-41,255. "k=hoosier lottery" has none. "k=proerastination" has two. 
I quickly get tired of UNLOC and go to the periodical room. 
I flip through such intriguing publications as "Opera News," "Canadian Geographic," and "Pnrsonnnl Management." 
On my way back to study, I see a sign on the stock nxehange booth which says "Push button for six-minute prnsentation on the Nnw York Stock Exchange." So I push the button and then leave. 
I wasn't caught for that stunt, so I safely make it back to the study room. 
I open my bookbag and remember I have about a thousand pages of reading to do. Then I deeide it's time for a Twix. 
I do a few laps around the second floor again, munching on my candy-bar, and check out the grafitti on the study carrnls. 
One witticism reads, "ND #1." "Miami #1000" is another. A popular one is "ND women are-." You fill in the blank. 
I find myself staring at a cute girl. She looks and sees me. Embarrassed. I quickly turn away and retreat to my study haven. 
It's now 5 o'clock, and I realize that I've found enough distractions to put off study­ing for three hours. 
Who was I kidding, trying to study on a Saturday at the 'Brare? The 'Brare has just as many, if not more, distractions as my room. 
I should have stayed there. 
The views expressed are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff: 
News Production Sports 
Greg Lucas Joe Zadrozny Scott Brutocao 
Jeanne Blasi Paul Pearson 
Systems Gilbert Gomez Acoent VIewpoint 
Paige Smoron Joe Zadrozny Alison Cocks Mike Truppa Deb Walker Terri Walsh 
Dave Bruner Graphics 
Ad Design Bradford J. Boehm Val Poletto Lisa Gunsorek Anita Covelli Mary Sain 

lhe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday ough Fridav except during exam and vacation periods. The '.;',server is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction ·1ts are reserved. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 13. 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for .noon, Tuesday, Feb. 13. 1 0 Lines show high temperatures. 
20  0  0  10  30  
Yesterday's high: 36  
Yesterday's low: 20  
50  Nation's high: 86 (Miami,  
Fla.)  
Nation's low: -5 (Caribou,  
Maine)  
Forecast:  
Mostly cloudy today with  
a 30 percent chance of  
light rain. High in the mid  
40s. Cloudy tonight with  
a 30 percent chance for  
light snow. Low in the mid  
20s.  Cloudy  and  cold  
Wednesday  with  a  40  
FRONTS:  percent chance for light  
• • COLD  •• WARM  •• •STATIONARY  ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc  snow. 30s.  High  in  the  low  
Pressure®©  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Via Associated Press Graph1csNet  

OF INTEREST 
JPW registration packets can be picked up today between 2 and 10 p.m. in the Dooley Room, located on the 1st floor of Lafortune. This is the last day. Questions? Call 239-6028 Mon-Thurs 7-9 p.m. 
"Office Visits/Plant Trips Workshop" will focus on planning ahead for the ali-day second interview. Mari­lyn Bury, assistant director of Career & Placement Ser­vices, will conduct this workshop today from 4 p.m. -5 
p.m. in the Ilesburgh Library Lounge. This workshop will be repeated on Thursday, february 15, same time and place. 
BIKE-AID '90, a cross-country bicycle trip and fundraiser for the Overseas Development Network, will be the topic of a video presentation at the CSC Multi-Purpose Hoom tonight at 7:30 p.m. Any questions? Call Nick #2380. 
Accounting majors -Coopers & Lybrand will give a presentation today at 4:15 in Hoom 122 Hayes-llealy (auditorium) about their Business Investigation Services program in their Chicago office. All interested are wel­come to attend. 
The Saint Mary's College justice education 
program will present "Missing," the third film in the pro­gram's spring series, tonight at 7 p.m. in Carroll Audito­rium of Madeleva Hall. A discussion led by Assistant Di­rector of Campus Ministry Sr. Mary Turgi, CSC, will fol­low. Admission is free. For more information call 284­4521. 
Theodore's Valentine Celebrity Auction will take place tonight form 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Door prizes will be given away. All are welcome. 
Notre Dame's tax assistance program. in which Notre Dame and Saint Mary's accounting studnnts assist low-income taxpayers with preparation of thnir state and federal tax returns. begins Wednesday, Feb. 14. and con­tinues every Wednesday through April 11. The program is in the coffee house of the CSC. Thn program will not take place from March 8 through March 17. 
Iceberg Debates, round three, will take place Wednesday. Feb. 14. The topic of thn debate will be ROTC's compatibility with Notrn Dame's Christian char­acters. Please attnnd a debate at a dorm nmtr you. 
NATIONAL 
Angry black students carrying the banner "Keep The Dream Alive" marched out of Selma High School on Monday, ending a five-day sit-in, and Mayor Joe Smither­man of Selma, Ala.• said all schools would reopen Tues­day. But the racial protest, over a vote of the white mem­bers of the city school board to dismiss Norward Rous­sell, the city's first black school superintendent, seemed far from resolved. Smitherman sought a federal court order bringing a halt to further sit-ins, which have closed public schools in the 70 percent black, 6,000-student sys­tem for nearly a week. 
Billionaire developer Donald Trump. who sepa­rated from his wife Ivana Monday, had the foresight to perfect the art of the prenuptial deal. According to columnist Liz Smith, who broke the story in Sunday's New York Daily News. their agreement has been updated four times in the 12-year marriage, the last time two years ago. If the split sticks, Ivana gets $25 million. plus their Greenwich, Conn., mansion and custody of the three chil­dren. Donald keeps everything else -a business and real estate empire worth somewhere between $1.7 billion and $4 billion. 
MARKET UPDATE INDIANA 
Closings for February 12, 1990 

Overcrowded conditions at the Indiana Boys School at Plainfield will diminish after an Evansville men's work-release center is converted to a facility for delinquent teen-agers, state prison officials say. The center will open next month under the operation of Second Chance Halfway House Inc., said H. Christian DeBruyn, the state's new deputy commissioner for juvenile corrections. The state will pay Second Chance about $54 per day for each youth treated and 
S&P Composite

housed at the revamped facility, DeBruyn said. 
330.08 {} 4.29 Dow Jones Industrials 

A 25-year-old Hammond man died early 
2619.14 {}29.06

Monday morning when he was struck by a freight train at a Hammond crossing, the second Hoosier 
Precious Metals 

pedestrian to be killed by a train in as many days. 
Gold {} $3.20 to $419.20/ oz.

William Washick tried to cross the Hohman Av­enue railroad crossing in Hammond despite the Silver{} 3.2¢ to $5.305/ oz. gates being lowered, the Lake County coroner's 

ALMANAC 
On February 13: e In 1633: The Italian as­tronomer Galileo arrived in Rome for trial before the Inqui­sition. e In 1935: A jury in Fleming­ton, N.J.• found Bruno Richard Hauptmann guilty of first-de­gree murder in the kidnap­death of the infant son of avia­tor Charles Lindbergh. The ver­dict carried an automatic death sentence. e In 1920: The League of Na­tions recognized the perpetual neutrality of Switzerland. e In 1945: During World War II, the Soviets captured Bu­
dapest, Hungary, from the

Source: AP
office said. 
Germans after a 50-day siege. 


Frustration 
AP Photo 

A young cat stares longingly at two chickens which have invaded its yard, but the frustrated feline is tied up to prevent it chasing the fowl in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. 
Rebels claim success in N. Ethiopia attack 
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) -Er­itrean rebels said Monday they sank nine Navy vessels and captured 46 tanks in three as­saults on the Red Sea port of Massawa in northern Ethiopia. 
The Eritrean People's Libera­tion Front said 21 crew mem­bers and a large but unspeci­fied number of army personnel also were taken prisoner during the siege. 
The rebels said "fierce" fighting was continuing in a separate attack they launched Sunday east of Karan, 55 miles west of Massawa. 
It was not possible to inde­pendently confirm the rebel claims made in a statement is­sued in Khartoum, Sudan, where the Eritrean Front main­tains an office. 
In Addis Ababa, the govern­ment issued no more informa­tion on the fighting after saying Sunday its troops and the rebels were battling for control of Massawa. 
However, the government did not directly deny a Saturday night claim by the rebels that they had captured Massawa, one of the country's only two ports. 
The rebel statement Monday said government troops were withdrawing from the city but made no mention of whether they were being evacuated by sea or were fleeing into the arid countryside. 
In their Saturday broadcast, the rebels claimed to have seized control of the 40-mile road that connects Massawa and Eritrea's capital, Asmara. 
If the rebel claim is true, As­mara would be virtually cut off from Addis Ababa except by air. Another rebfll group, the Tigre People's Liberation Front, cut off the southern road to Addis Ababa more than a year ago. 
The Eritrean Front did not specify the types of nine vessels sunk or tanks captured, but the London-based International In­stitute of Strategic Studies says Ethiopia has two frigates and 21 patrol craft, some carrying missiles and torpedoes. 
see ETHIOPIA I page 6 




Catnpus Ministry and You 


0f\!1PUS

---------------------MINISTRY­


SEX AND THE SINGLE NOTRE DAME CHRISTIAN 
"You have taught me to feel shame and disgust about my body, so that I am ashamed to clear my throat or blow my nose ... You taught me an indecent fear of sexuality. I'm not sure I have any left underneath this baked-on crust of shame and disgust."-Garrison Keillor 
"I had been raised to believe that I was bad that most of what I did was bad, that things I wanted were bad for me. It was not an accusation -no one barked about my badness. It was rather an interminable whisper of suggestion that I was weak and sinful and the sense that I was always wrong. ' 
'There was something natural and unavoidable abo~t being bad: ~ing hungry was bad, going to the m~Vles as bad, stttmg and doing nothing was bad, bcmg happy was bad, and bad turned easily into evil." -Paul Theroux 
In discussing ou,r sexuality, distinction should be made between who we are and what we do. We are not essentially bad. We are made in the image and likeness of a God called love and are, at the core, a reflection of who God is. God-by definition as well as nature -is not bad, so we are not essentially bad. 
What we do is a manifestation of who we are, but not the essence of who we are. If we are not able to distinguish between what we do and who we are, then when we do what is bad we consider ourselves to be bad. 
That's the difference between shame and guilt. The 
shame-based person says: '1 am wrong." The healthy 
person is in touch with his or her guilt and says: "I do 
wrong." In theological language, the distinction is the 
difference between admitting: "I am a a sinner (guilt)'' 
and "I am no good (shame)." 

Many of the desires that lead to holiness can also lead to sin. We desire to be one with God, and know that we cannot be God. On the one hand we accept our dependence upon God (holiness). On the other we act as if we have unique powers, knowledge or love from God which makes us equal to God or we turn inward, separating ourselves from God (sin). Much of life is fluctuation between those two tendencies. We are all sinners, but that does not imply that we are no good. 
In Christian understanding we are created as a 
physical expression of who God is. The center of 
Christian belief about who we are is the incarnation: 
the Word (loving expression) of God made humanly 
physical and subject to all laws of the physical. 
According to this belief, the life, death and 
resurrection of Jesus has totally and forever changed 
PART II 

our understanding of who we are. So, the answer to the question: "who are you?" is, in Christian terms, "I am the physical expression of the essence of being." Try that on your next date! 
In the first part of this series, sexuality was prelimin~rily defined as "!,he human way of being in and relatmg to the world. To the extent that is true sexuality, at its best, is a physical expression of who God is. 
The scriptures have various joyous and holy sexual expressions, particularly in sections of the Song of Songs and the Psalms. Christian teaching while it has an ambivalent history in this regard, always comes back to the conclusion that sex is good and holy. The sexual arousal stirring in our bodies is the basis of our creativity and our ability to be God's presence on earth. 
We are sexual beings. If we believe we are shameful and disgusting, then we see sex as shameful and disgusting. If we believe sex to be shameful and disgusting, then we see ourselves as shameful and disgusting. To the extent that we are not consciously involved in affirming who we are and all others are, to that extent we are sexually non-integrated and our sexuality appears in disintegrated ways. 
Sexual integration is a growing process that continues through our entire lives. More and more, the sexually integrated Christian is comfortable with his or her body and is able to communicate God's love -with appropriate boundaries -in the beauty and intensity of all his or her relationships. S/he is not ashamed of being a sexual person and is comfortable with discussing sexual issues. The sexually integrated Christian knows that sex is more an issue of sharing than of taking or receiving. There is no sense of shame, but there is an ability to feel and then move beyond the guilt associated with infidelity to a specific moral code. 
Remember the fictitious case study of Bill in part one of this series. He got the impression that he is basically bad and that sexuality is basically bad. Thus, for him, to be a sexual person is bad. But it is not possible to not be sexual, unless one is physically dead. 
So, Bill has to be sexual, whether he wants to be or not. How he is sexual is determined by the extent to which he is consciously, fully involved in sexual decisions. In his case, there is no conscious involvement in his sexuality, so it is manifest through obsessive, compulsive acts of masturbation, voyeuristic activities and pornographic assistance in fantasy. Then in his way of thinking, he goes back to being a good and asexual until the next time he is overwhelmed by his consciously denied sexuality. 
Jenny, you'll remember, was physically and emotionally abused most of her childhood, and has learned to see herself as a not-good person, who exists for the sadistic pleasure of others. She has no conscious sense of self beyond this. Privately she was only able to derive sexual pleasure from fantasies of self-inflicted pain, and now lives a lie about her relationship with an older man. She can not be honest about who she is, because she has learned to hate who she is. So, she lives a lie in every aspect of her bein~. 


For both Jenny and Bill, any sort of personal healing will have to include sexual healing, in which they begin to see themselves as loved creatures of a loving God who are themselves capable of loving and being loved. They will have to move beyond the very demeaning views they have of themselves and their bodies, and begin to see the relationship between their views of sex and their views towards life. 
It will take a lot of time and a lot of patient work, but nowhere near as long as it took to accumulate their current views. They are extreme (although, unfortunately, not very rare) cases, but in their lives can be found parallels for our own. 
In order to be spiritually healthy, we need to appreciate and accept who we are at the core. If on any level we have learned that who we are at the core is bad, we cannot begin to get spiritually healthy until we begin to address that issue. We can pretend; we can fake it; we can assimilate health. But we cannot have it, and, thus, cannot be who we are meant to be. 
Thus, for the Christian, the most important questions about sex are not what we do but who we are and how we are in relationship with others. What we do with our sexuality -our sexual morality -will flow from these basic understandings. 
Next Week: Christian Sexual Morality. 

Brou$t to you week{ by tfie &a of Cempua Ministry ana ¥h. CL!ter' 
------~--------------------­
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, February 13, 1990 
Ritual cult slayer dies of AIDS related heart attack 


MEXICO CITY (APJ -Omar 
Francisco Oma Ochoa, a mem­
ber of a cull accused of com­
mitting ritual slayings along 
the U.S.-Mexico border, has 
di«~d of a heart attack brought 
on by AIDS, the Mnxieo City at­
torrwy gerwral's office said 
Monday. 
The governnwnt said he died 
of a !wart attark Sunday after­
noon in tlw hospital at Mexico 
City's Santa Marta Acatitla fed­
eral penitentiary. Dr. Francisco 
Guerra lzquiPrdo at the hospi­
tal said the cardiae arrest was 
caused by AIDS. 
Orea Ochoa, 24, was diag­
nosed as having the deadly dis­
ease in Juno, tho attorney gen­
nral's oflice said. 
Before joining the cult, he 
was a journalism student at 
Mexico's National University. 
Orna Ochoa reportedly was 
the lover of Adolfo de Jesus 
Constanzo. the Cuban-born 
leader of the cult. Orca Ochoa 
was one of five cult members 
arrested May 6, when Con­
stanzo ordered his own killing 
and that of another man when 
police began closing in on them 
in Mexico City. 


Africa 
continued from page 1 
and lootnrs in Cape Town that 
left one blaek dead and more 
than 100 peopll~ injured. 
Tutu, in an unusual move, is­
sued a statement deploring the 
looting and refraining from 
criticism of the police. Other 
activists appealed to blacks to 
weleome Mandela in a dignified, 
non-violent manner. 
At midday Monday, a white security guard in Johannesburg killed a man who was among a group of blacks that chased and cornerl'd him, carrying bricks and elubs. police said. The group had been chanting slogans welcoming Mandela's release, the police said. 
In Cape Town, a bomb blast damaged a ticket office at a stadium where an English !Ticket team is due to play this wonk in defiance of an interna­tional sports boycott. 
Mandela said the white gov­ernment's intention when it jailed him and other ANC lead­ers "was that we should be forgotten.'' 
Instead, his relnase from prison was covered by journal­ists from around the world as an npic 1wnnt that could lead to swooping political change in South Africa. 
Mamlela said he had been conferring with government officials for the past three years on the prospect of nego­tiations with the ANC, as well as on the issue of freeing politi­cal prisoners. 
"I have eornmittl~d myself to thn promotion of peace in the country. But I have done so as part and parent of the decisions and campaign that have been taken by the ANC ... The armnd struggln is a defensive act against apartheid." 
The ANC's bombing and sab­otage campaign, laundwd by Mandnla and his colleagues in I961, has been nearly dormant in the past year, although the movenwnt has refused to con­firm that it is scaling back its military actions. 
Mandcla reaffirmed his sup­port for continued economic sanctions until the government dismantles the institutionalized radsm of apartheid. lie also pndorsed the ANC's commit­'ment to nationalization of South Africa's mines. 

Authorities believe the gang was responsible for the deaths of at least 13 people in and around Matamoros, across the Hio Grande from Brownsville, Texas, and several others in Mexico City. The April killing of Mark Kilroy, a Texas pre-medi­cal student on a border town visit, was the most widely pub­lieized of those murders. 
Cult member Sara Aldrete said after her arrest that Con­stanzo had invited her to join the Santeria cult and asked her to practice voodoo rituals. They were designed in part to "protect" the gang's drug smuggling from Mexico into Texas. 
Cult members originally were called "narco-satanics" under the assumption that their unusual rituals were connected to Satanism. After further in­vestigation, it was determined that Santeria is a blend of Catholicism and old African be­liefs that include animal sacri­
Fire at Savoy Theatre 

AP Photo 
fices. 
A fireman looks down onto the burnt out remains of the stage of London's Savoy Theatre Monday after a 
Gang members were charged 
fire swept through the 1 09-year-old theatre. Guests next door at the Savoy Hotel, including actor 
with homicide, criminal associ­
Richard Harris, were evacuated as a precaution. At one stage flames fanned by strong winds burst 
ation, wounding a police agent 
through the roof of the theatre up to 50 feet (15 metres). Nobody was injured during the fire. 

and damage to property. 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN BEING A STUDENT LEADER? 



CLASS ELECTIONS 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING Thursday, February 15 
7:00 p.m. Foster Room, La Fortune 
MANDATORY MEETING Monday, February 19 
7:30 p.m. Sorin Room, La Fortune 
CAMPAIGNING RUNS FROM Monday, February 26­Sunday, March 4 
MONDAY,MARCH15ELECTION DAY!! 
SrunENT 
.7-:>~~~~ 
ELECTIONS ARE FOR ALL CLASSES FOR PRESIDENT, VICE-PRESIDENT, SECRETARY, AND TREASURER 
r---------------~~---------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------~--.-------~.-------------­
Tuesday, February 13, 1990 The Observer 

Sweet Nothings 
AP Photo 

Anthropologist Sidney Mintz of the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore talks in his office last Wenes­day. Mintz has some theories on why humans evoke the imagery of sweetness to express affection. Possibly, our fondness for sweet talk can be traced genetically to our primate ancestors. 
Riots break out in Tadzhikistan 
MOSCOW lAP) --Hiots broke out in the capital of Tadzhik­istan during protests Monday against the n~settlement of eth­nic Armenian refugees in the Soviet Asian republic, official sources said. 
One report said there were deaths and dozens of injuries. 
The official Tass news agency said a state of emergency and a nighttime curfew had been im­posed on the city of Dushanbe to quell "mass disorders and pogroms, and acts of arson and looting.· 
Musafar Madzhidov, corre­spondent for official radio and television in Dushanbe, said armored vehicles had been brought into the city center, and that it was calm late Mon­day. He said an unknown num­ber of people had been killed and more than 70 were injured. 
Rioting erupted after two rallies in a 24-hour period over rumors that Armenian refugees from bloody ethnic strife in the Caucasus region were being given preference for new hous­shouted, "Down with the Ar­menians." he said. 
ing, Madzhidov said in  a tele­ 
phone interview.  
Members  of  the  crowd  

Armenians, a predominantly Christian people, have been in­volved for the last two years in bloody disputes with predomi­nantly Moslem Azerbaijanis over control of the Nagorno­Karabakh region of Azerb~ijan. 
More than 200 people have been killed in Armenia and Azerbaijan since Jan. 13, and President Mikhail Gorbachev was forced to send thousands of soldiers into the area to im­pose control. 
GETACTIVE!! 





RECYCLE 

NOTRE DAME l·li•fill IJ.U('I 

a planet is a terrible thing to waste 
I Aluminum e Newspapers e Glass For more information contact Paul Ruesch 277-6172, or call 239-7668 

SENIOR FORMAL TUXEDO RENTALS FROM 
LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
PRICES: 

---slack Classic ..................... Designer Tuxedos ................. Shoes ........................... 
*Does not include damage waiver fee and applicable tax. 
PAYMENT: 
SJ6.50* $46.50* $ 8.50* 

Personal checks will only be accepted at the time of fitting where a partial or full payment may be made. (A $15.00 minimum deposit is required at the time of fitting). We also accept cash, VISA, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. 
WHEN: 

February 27th, 28th, and March 1, 1990. 
(6:00P.M.-9:00P.M.) 
WHERE: 

• 
LaFortune Center, 2nd Floor in the Notre Dame Room on February 27th and 28th. 

• 
LeMans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's on March 1st. 


Kf yoV
"Wf MA fNT'''

THf fV . 


page 5 
Britain eases sanctions against South Africa 
LONDON (AP) --Britain called on Monday for a swift relaxation of sanctions against South Africa to save President 
F.W. de Klerk from being top­pled by a white backlash. 
But most other countries said the release Sunday of black leader Nelson Mandela was not enough to warrant easing sanc­tions. The 12-nation European Community appeared likely to isolate Britain on the issue, and President Bush said it was too early to talk about lifting sanc­tions. 
The Soviet Union, which armed Mandela's African Na­tional Congress guerrilla movement, and China joined in international expressions of delight at Mandela's freedom. 
Most African nations, includ­ing powerful Nigeria, said the continent's last white govern­ment had taken a significant step but should still be isolated. However, two West African conservatives, the Ivory Coast and Gabon, urged immediate closer ties with South Africa. 
In London, Foreign Office Minister William Waldegrave said it was "vital to send a sig­nal to the white community that President de Klerk's steps will find a response from the inter­national community." 
"If we don't provide any re­sponse at all ... (you) will surely blame us when the white back­lash sweeps de Klerk away," Waldegrave retorted in acri­monious exchanges with oppo­sition Labor Party legislators in the House of Commons. 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher wrote to fellow Euro­pean Community leaders Sun­day seeking an end to a 1986 ban on new investment in South Africa and to a ban on promot­ing tourism there. European Community foreign ministers will consider the proposal at a Feb. 20 meeting. 
Mandela, who walked free Sunday after more than 27 years in jail, said that sanctions and the armed struggle should continue. 
In a radio interview, Walde­grave brushed aside the inter­national chorus for continued sanctions. He said the only countries whose positions mat­tered were the United States, Japan, West Germany and Bri­tain --all major South African trading partners. 
"It doesn't actually matter very much what the distant chorus says," said Waldegrave. "What really matters is that those who have influence show to de Klerk that his line ... is going to get a response. If it doesn't get a response he will hB swept away." 
Ireland, current president of the European Community, said it believed the trade bloc should maintain its embargoes. The relatively mild sanctions include bans on imports of coal, iron and gold coins. 
"President de Klerk displays great moral courage ... but (it is) only a start," Irish Deputy Prime Minister Brian Lenihan said in Dublin. 
Other big trading partners confined themselves to welcom­ing Mandela's release. 


CLUB MEETINGS 
for the week of 2/12/90 
Club  Meeting topic Time  Place  
Feb.13 Marketing Club Athletic Club Pres.  meeting and 7:00p.m. speaker 90-91 Funding 7:00 p.m.  184 Nieuland 207 LaFortun•  
Feb. 15 Ethnic Club Pres. Special Interest Club Pres.  90-91 Funding 7:00p.m. 90-91 Funding 7:00 p.m.  Dooly Room ND Room  
Feb. 19 Environmental Action Club  Earth Day  7:oo p.m.  esc  

a service of The Observer and the Club Coordination Council 
Rediscover 

I I
AI 1851 

The Carriage House 
a touch of class 
" 

OPEN TUESDAY through SATURDAY 219-272-9220 RESERVATIONS RECOMMENDED 
24460 Adams Rd South Bend, Indiana 
page 6 
Mandela Wave 
AP Photo 
Nelson Mandala waves to thousands of supporters gathered in 
Cape Town's Grand Parade Square Sunday. The ANC leader was 
released earlier in the day after being imprisoned for 27 years. 



Ethiopia 
continued from page 3 
The rebels are known to have 
speedboats with cannons and 
machine guns. 
The Eritrean Front offensive 
began Thursday after a lull 
lasting nearly a year. Late last 
year, the rebels held peace talks 
in Atlanta and Nairobi, with 
former President Carter medi­
ating. 
Both parties agreed to meet again and seek an end to the 2R-year-old war, Africa's longest, but set no dates. 
The renewed fighting around Massawa effectively halted re­lief operations by the United Nations, whieh hoped to ship most of 700,000 tons of food through the port in the next few months to northern drought victims, mainly in Er­itrea and its southern neighbor, Tigre. 
Thl\ Eritrean offensive came 
as the government appeared to 
be regaining ground the Ti­
grean rebels captured when 
they swept out of their 
strongholds in Tigre in late Au­
gust and moved south and west 
into Wolin, Showa and Gonder 
provinces. 
The Tigre and Eritrean Fronts have different goals, but have coordinated their attacks in the past. The Eritreans want independence for their province, while the Tigreans seek President Mengistu Haile Mariam's ouster and the estab­lishment of a government pat­terned after that of Albania, the last hard-line Marxist state in Eastern Europe. 
The deod line for signing up for insurance (Porker & Porker), is Fridoy, February 16, 1990. You moy opply ot the Uniuersity Heolth Center's I nsuronce Office. 

The Observer Tuesday, February 13, 1990 
Security plans for Columbia trip 

WASHINGTON (API -A massive security operation is being assembled to protect President Bush and three Latin leaders from danger during a daylong drug summit in vio­lence-wracked Colombia. 
A wide array of defenses ___..:. some obvious and some not ­are expected to be in place when Bush spends about six hours Thursday with the presi­dents of Colombia, Peru and Bolivia at a heavily guarded naval base near the coastal re­sort city of Cartagena. 
Colombian authorities say about 5,000 security agents will be deployed. Secret Service agents already are in place and more will fly in with Bush. 
U.S. 
warplanes may be used to escort Air Force One and Bush's helicopter. In addition, 

U.S. 
warships likely will be sta­tioned in the Caribbean to pro­vide support. 


"It's a serious environment to deal with," said William Hawthorne, who retired from the Secret Service in 1987 as executive assistant to the direc­tor. 
"The fact that they're going tells me the Secret Service be­lieves they can provide security in that environment. I'm not particularly worried,'' Hawthorne said. 
Eight years ago, when Bush was visiting Colombia as vice president, a cache of dynamite was found buried along the runway at Bogota international airport after his plane took off. 
The Defense Ministry specu­lated at the time that leftist guerrillas had planted the ex­plosives days earlier but were thwarted by security from get­ting close enough to detonate the dynamite on the day Bush left. 
Brushing aside security con­cerns, Bush says he wants to go to Colombia as an expression of support for its president, Virgilio Barco, who is waging war against the country's drug lords. 
"And I believe ... that the se­curity of the president can be protected on this naval base, a place where the man (Barco) has his own home that is cut off from the mainland except 




ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C. 
We are looking for intelligent, ambitious Notre Damejuniors who desire challenge, love to learn, and have a need for variety. 
We invite you to sign up for a 
summer internship interview in our Chicago Consulting Group. 
• 
Math/C.S. 

• 
MIS 


• CAPP 

• 
Engi~eers with programming expenence 

• 
Students interested in working in Chicago after graduation 


Interviews to be held on March 3, 1990. 
See the Placement Office for details. 
by one entrance," Bush said 
last week. 
Jerry Parr, who was !wad of 
Pmsident Honald Heagan's pro­
tective detail, said that on a 
scale of 1 to 10, the dangnr to 
Bush was "probably a snvnn or 
an eight." 
"It's risky to b1~ presidnnt," 
said Parr, who in 19S1 shovnd 
a wounded Heagan into a 
limousine and rushed him to a 
hospital aftPr an assassination 
attempt. "You can't reduce all 
the risks." 
"Anytime you take the presi­
dent out of the United Statns, 
it's got a lot of unknowns 
about it, despite the fact you're 
going to do everything you 
can," Parr said. 
Typically, the Secret Service sets up thren concentric rings of security for the president: an intnnsnly guardnd inner drd1~. a middle cirde and an outer perimeter, Parr said. 
"The whole game will bn to minimize the danger and rnduce the killers' or the assassins' op­tions. Since he is going, the Sn­cret Service really has thought it out well," Parr said. 
Decoy limousines and heli­copters have become standard fare in presidential securi . 


Tuesday, February 13, 1990 The Observer page 7 

"Rejoicing" 
AP Photo 
President Bush talks to reporters in the Rose Garden of the White House Sunday. Bush says it is time 
for "rejoicing" over Nelson Mandela's freedom after 27 years in South African prisons, but not to dec1de 
whether to keep up the stiff sanctions on South Africa's white minority-ruled regime. 
Chinese protestors still in prison 
Gorbachev speaks to East German leaders 
WEST BEHLIN (AP) -Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev told East German leaders thjlt a reunited Germany cannot be­long to the NATO alliance, the East German news agency re­ported on Monday. 
The Soviet leader's stand is strongly at odds with the United States and Western Eu­ropean nations, who oppose the idea of a neutral Germany with no ties to the Wcst(~rn military alliance. 
l·:ast G(~rmany, meanwhile, rPjPeted a West German pro­posal to quickly mPrge the eur­rPnci(~S of the two Germanys, hut did approve the principle of a single rur-rPncy. 
West German Chancellor llelmut Kohl. trying to speed tlw push toward rnunifieation, had urgPd a quick monetary union to ease what he said was a rritical economic crisis in l·:ast Germany. 
J·:ast GPrman leaders on Monday asked the West Ger­mans for linaneial aid of up to $9 billion, hut West Germany n~jected the request. Finance Minister Thco Waigel said it made "no sense" to provide funds to a "system that has still not decided to make fun­damental changes and has not shown it is capable of doing 
so ... 
About 70,000 East Germans turned out Monday evening for the weekly pro-democracy rally in Leipzig. Dozens carried West German flags and one banner read: "If the West German mark comes, we'll stay. If the West German mark doesn't show up, we'll go to join it." 
Last year. 340,000 East Ger­mans moved to prosperous, capitalist West Germany. They now stream West at the rate of 1,800 a day. making the eco­nomic chaos in East Germany even worse. 
That exodus helped topple the old hard-line East German gov­ernment last year. The mass !light is now fueling a growing n~unification movement, which Kohl has capitalized upon. 
Tlw remnants of the Com­munist government in East Germany, however, has been trying to slow the process. 
Kohl and llans Modrow, East Germany's Communist premier, are to meet in Bonn on Tues­day. In Brussels, foreign minis­ters of the European Commu­nity said Kohl would make Modrow an official offer of monetary union. 
They said Waigel mentioned the plan at a meeting of Euro­pean Community ministers Monday. No details were re­leased. 
Kohl said he got the "green light" for unification from Gorbachev during a weekend visit to Moscow, but the official East German agency ADN re­ported Monday the Soviet leader insisted that a united Germany stay out of NATO. 



T ~,~~~~,,:,s 
~ ~lN~h~~ 

f14~$6.oo-FRE-Er;E-uvEFiv1 
116" $8.00 with coupon I I 18" $1 0.00 *limit one item per pizza I 
LARGE PARTIES (minimum 12 people)
·----------------------­
*All you can eat for $4.00 *Free pop and specials *Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays only 



289-4625 

So many choices to make. So many things to consider. Is it worth the effort? Will I be happy? Will I be fulfilled? 
Fulfillment comes with doing what you love and doing it well ... Using your tal­ents in an atmosphere where personal growth is encouraged. 
The Paulists can offer you a life. A life of commitment to people. Helping the lost and alienated find a spiritual home. Us­ing radio, television, film and other contem­porary means to spread the Gospel. Working wtth other Christians for unity and seeking a deeper understanding with other world religions. 
If you're looking for life... not just a career, choose the Paulists. For more lnfonnatlon call 1-800-235-3456. 

Choose 
a 

life... not justa career. 


Or write, Father John F. Duffy, C.S.P., Paulist Fathers Vocation Office 415 West 59th Street, New York, NY 10019 
GENEVA (AP) -Thousands of people remain in prison eight months after China's army crushed the pro-democracy movement, and authorities con­tinue to carry out arrests, tor­ture and executions, a U.N. document alleged Monday. 
The allegations appear in re­ports included in the document given to the Human Bights Commission by U.N. Secretary­General Javier Perez de Cuellar. The commission is to consider human rights in China during its current six-week session, which began Jan. 29. 
A letter from the Chinese gov­ernment that is part of the 29­page document said authorities showed "utmost tolerance and restraint in the face of illegal 
demonstrations" and described China's actions as "justified and legitimate." 
Ambassador Li Luye, who signed the letter, said nearly 300 people were killed in the attack June 3-4 on Tiananmen Square, including members of the armed forces, and "besides ruffians, a small number of on­lookers were shot accidentally, which is regrettable.' 
Some unofficial estimates put the number of unarmed civil­ians killed by soldiers in the thousands. 
In August, a U.N. panel of experts instructed Perez de Cuellar to "transmit ... infor­mation provided by the gov­ernment of China and by other reliable sources" to the Human Rights Commission. 
One reports in the document is from Amnesty International, the human rights group based in London. Despite the lifting of martial law Jan. 10, it said, China has not announced par­dons for thousands of people imprisoned for taking part in pro-democracy demonstra­tions. 
Two Trident 2 missiles launched Monday 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -The nuclear submarine Ten­nessee successfully launched two Trident 2 missiles just 20 seconds apart Monday, ending the Navy's three-year test pro­gram for the weapons. 
The two 44-foot missiles were launched as the Tennessee cruised submerged in the At­lantic 200 miles off the Florida coast. The Navy reported both firings were successful, running the missile's string of successes to seven straight. 
The first shot officially ended the test program; the second qualified the Tennessee to be­come the first submarine to go on operational patrol with 24 of the nuclear-tipped missiles. 
The Navy says the Trident 2, priced at $26.5 million each, is much more accurate than its undersea predecessors, Polaris, Poseidon and Trident 1. Pub­lished reports said the weapon's warheads can strike within 400 feet of their targets, compared with about 1 ,500 feet for the Trident 1. 
The first launch Monday marked the final test flight for the Trident 2, completing a program which began in Jan­uary 1987 with a series of 19 launches from land, 15 of them succyssful. Nine submarine tests followed, all from the Tennessee and seven of them successful. 
The second launch was called a "demonstration and shake­down operation," or DASO, which mainly tested the sub crew's ability to safely handle and launch the missile. Navy spokeswoman Pat Hicks said after each DASO is completed, a submarine is certified for de­ployment. 
The Tennessee is scheduled to go on operational patrol in March with 24 Trident 2s, each capable of delivering up to 12 nuclear warheads to targets more than 4,600 miles away. 
)~~~~~~~~~~·~~ 
J J~.f e~ in rlfPtd
J ~ij 1990 
:-. ATIENTION STUDENTS 'iJ: Off Campus SiKn -ups:.1\ February 12-16ln North and South Dining Halls I during lunch. 
J 
Febru~ry 12-March 5 at LaFortune lnfonnation desk. . . On Campus SiKn -ups: 

Now -March 5. Look for posters in respective donns. 
"Christmas in Aprill990" will take place on April 7, in the Washngton Street neighborhod. 
This project needs your support! QUESTIONS??? Please call: Karen Croteau Xl367 Lora Mangan Xl314 Isabel Navarrete Xl314 Bob Scheibel X2544 
~~~~~~~~~~·~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~--~----~---------~-­







Viewpoint 
Tuesday, February 13, 1990
page 8 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 {219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .Mal1hew Gallagher Advertising Manager ........... Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor. ..Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....Shannon Roach Sports Editor ....... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor.. ................John Blasi Systems Mgr... .Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor... .. .Eric Bailey OTS Director.. ...........Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor . ........ Christine Gill Controller .. ...Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICieS of the admimstrat1on of e1ther ~nstltution. The news is reported as accurately and ob· Jectively as possible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the majority of the following Editor-in-Chief. Manag~ng Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Ed1tor. Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, let1ers. and the lns1de Column present the views of the" authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the lree express1on of vary~ng opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged 
EDITORIAL 

Election marred by 
A practical Chruch might heal abortion ills 
Dear Editor: cannot cope with her preg­and psychological empower­


petty politicking 
Greg Jeffrey's column (The nancy? ment of women-is at the Observer, Jan. 29) was a re­I ask these questions because heart of the abortion issue. Sunday, an emergency meeting of the Student Senate 
freshing departure from the I continue to be perplexed by And while the Church is dnvil­voted 7-6 to order the ticket of Vinny Sanchez and 
mind-numbing disputation over the fact that the advocates for ishly clever at advertising its 
Melissa Smith to take down the table tents promoting 
abortion usually offered at the amendment are the same commitmnnt to social justice,
their campaign for student government which they 
Notre Dame. It was consoling reactionary skinflints who its actual track record tells an­
placed in the dining halls earlier that day. 
to discover a man in the com­think money and social services other story. It was mightily in­Although the matter of table tents seems relatively 
munity prepared to confront corrupt poor and disadvan­different, when it was not trivial, it is a perfect example of why the student gov­
the existential agony and the taged people. Yet, welfare state opnnly hostile, to movements as ernment election process at Notre Dame needs re­
moral complexity of abortion liberals-often pro-choice-in various as the abolition of slav­
form. 
with his feelings as well as his a country like Swnden have ac­ery, women's suffrage and The Student Senate's decision was clearly opposed to 
intellect. tually reduced the incidence of Trades Unionism. both the spirit and letter of the rule in question, which 
Jeffrey's article also hinted at abortion by providing an alter­MoreoVfw, churchmen recog­states that posters may not be placed on the walls of 
what we all know, if we are native-superb state support nize a paradox when they see 
the dining hall. In addition to honoring the rule, 
honest and humble, namely that for the pregnancy. one: arguing for more justiceSanchez and Smith had cleared their action with both 
the dogmatic road, pro-choice for women in the secular an~na 
Election Committee Chairman Tom Hask and Student 
or pro-life, is leading nowhere. It is also time to quit thinking would sound plain silly coming Body President Matt Breslin. Furthermore, such table 
A pastoral pragmatism ap­that the Homan Catholic Church from men whose Church is orw tents had been used for the past two years without 
pears to be the only way out of has anything constructive to of the best equal opportunityproblem. 
the polemical swamp. say in the debate over abortion. oppressors in business. Despite their efforts, a complaint was brought to 
Columnist Thomas Blackburn, A constitutional weakness for Hask by two of the opposing tickets, those of Hob 
writing about abortion in a re­moral absolutes over pastoral Ann Pet.tifer '7o Pasin and Fred Tombar, and of Sigi Loya and Haja 
cent issue of the National pragmatism hobbl1~s it. Social .'·iouth /JendSingh. Hask upheld his previous ruling allowing table 
Catholic Reporter, says: "The justice-the political, economic, Feh. 7. I fJ CJO tents. Pasin and Loya, dissatisfied with Bask's ruling, 
Supreme Court said only that called for an emergenq' meeting of Student Senate, 
anyone could have an abortion; which oversees the electiOn committee, calling for it to 
the abortion opponents' goaloverrule Bask's decision. 
should be a society in which no The Senate, by a 7-6 vote, overruled Hask and in­
one wants one." If the advo­structed Sanchez and Smith to remove the table tents. 
cates of a constitutional Pasin and Loya, both members of the Senate, chose to 
amendment to criminalize vote in the matter, thus swaying the vote in their fa­
abortion achieve their goal, the vor. Sanchez, who is also a member of the Senate, 
fetus will surely have more pro­voted, but his vote was cancelled out. 
tection than is presently the The Student Senate, whether or not they had the le­
case. But will the amendment gal right to make such a decision, was wrong to do so. 
give us a society in which no Sanchez and Smith did absolutely everything correctly; 
one wants an abortion? How it is unfair that the Senate should penalize their cam­
would we demonstrate goodpaign by forcing the removal of the table tents. In 
faith in this context to a des­essenee, the Student Senate was turned into a political 
perate woman who absolutely cireus, voting not on the issue at hand but on who the members personally thought should win the election. 
Neither Pasin, Loya, nor Sanchez should have voted 
N.O.W. used fallacy to argue abortion case 
on this matter; common sense indicates that they should have abstained from a vote on a matter in 
Dear Editor: disgusts me. I hope it is evident on untruths are completely ir­which they had a conflict of interest. Had all three 
I attended the "Debate on to the members of the Notre rational and untenable. If Dr. done so, the result would likely have been different 
Abortion" at Theodore's on Dame community that the Stecker needs to support her If Pasin and Loya's behavior in this incident is any 
Feb. 5. Dr. Ellen Stecker (of Church celebrates life and res­argument with absurdities, the indication of how they would behave as student lead­
South Bend N.O.W.), in her urrection through the sacra­only conclusion one can logi­ers, they do not deserve your vote. Students at Notre 
closing remarks, presented as ment of the Eucharist. Dr. cally draw is that the position Dame deserve a fair campaign for student leadership 
one of her pro-choice argu­Stecker's ignorant claim is a she supports is absurd as well. positions; Student Senate has deprived them of a fair 
ments that the Catholic Church fallacy. John F. Plumb and honest campaign. 
celebrates death by crucifixion Any reasonable person will Morrissey Hall in the Eucharist. This comment agree that conclusions based Feb. o, 1990 


DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
A5 I 5AIO [){}RIN6 f.{};>J>',.,, ... 7H& '88 /J&811T&5, IF 

IA//3U., NOT
MR. 8U'3HUJtR£ UNA&& 
YOU'[) 

Me ?eR'3()NAUY.
70 m?FORM HIS OUTieS­
INVATJe! 

BUT I'JJet
IF, ~&.KAMPf£, HeUJEJR£ 
/ INOIARI3e-'
l?eA0-1'0 Be REAVY.' 
\
"' 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'To know things is to be 
learned. To know others is to be 
wise. To know the self is to be 
enlightened.' 
Anthony de Mello, S.J. 





Accent
Tuesday, February 13, 1990 page 9 


'A If' but no burritos 
ND student adjusts to food and entertainment in Mexico City 
MEXICO CITY-Greetings from the world's largest city. OvERSEAS CoLUMN: Mexico City is so large that it's 
Robyn Simmons
impossible to diseuss every facet of it in one column, so I Mexico City thought I would write about some of my preconceptions of I was told that the loose English Mexico and how most of those translation is "fried blood." 
have been shattl~red after only No part of a cow is wasted one week lwre. 
down here, which brings me to First of all, I was under the my ultimatn experience with impression that every one here Mnxican cuisine: "lengua." For ate rood that was not unlike the those of you who don't know mnnu of the average Taco Bell. 
Spanish, I'll give you a hint as i\ftnr one week lwre, I have had to what it is: I had to scrape off tacos only once, and they were the taste buds before I could eat w~ry diffnrnnt from tlw tacos it. Even though I am willing to I'm used to eating in the United try just about any kind of food States. I also havnn 't had any of lwre, I have to admit that Ithe following (yet): enchildas, don't know if I could ever getburritos, or nachos. 
used to eating tongue. 
I also assunwd that all /\side from the food and bev­Mexican food was so hot that I erages of Mexico, I was alsowould need a volunteer lire de­surprised by the amount of partmnnt to hose down my i\merican influence in Mexican mouth after each meal. While it tnlevision and radio. Just about is trm~ that there are a number all radio stations play Mexican of spiry dishes, Mexicans also music, but when I travel toenjoy food that is not "picante." 
school in "camionetas" (which Hiee is very popular, as are soft are Volkswagon vans), I almost tortillas. (I might be mistaken always hear American music. 
about the popularity of tortillas, And when I visited one of the since the family I live with runs local discotheques, I also heard a tortilla stand.) Many of my many familiar tunes.
meals have consisted of a ham For those Mexican house­and cheese sandwich, with soft holds that have cable, ABC,flour tortillas in place of bread. 
NBC and CBS are available in English without subtitles, and Living with a Mexican family there are also American shows has introduced me to a number that have been dubbed over inof new dining experiences. My Spanish, such as "The Wonder family enjoys drinking Years" ("Los anos Maravil­"Jamayca," which looks a lot losas"), "Alf," "Batman," "The like cherry Kool-i\id, but tastes Flintstones" and "Gilligans quite tart, depending on how Island" (in which the skipper is much sugar you use. Jamayca called el capitan.) Video storesis made by boiling dried petals also feature many American and straining the water. 
films in English with subtitles. 
Jamayca is served cold, and 
MICHAEL BAECHLER 
accent writer 

The students of Notre Dame, along with the rest of the Notre Dame community, should find the newest exhibition at the Snite Museum of Art especially intriguing. It is in the recently re-opened O'Shaughnessy gal­leries that the traditional tables of academia have been turned. The work of Notre Dame art faculty is now on display giving students the chance to evaluate the work of their instructors. 
The Annual Faculty Exhibi­two years; however, this year the Snite has reinstated the an­nual exhibit. Most of the faculty artists featured this year were present at the opening, and many of them are nationally recognized for their work. 
While students may be famil­iar with some of the names of campus artists, they can now associate the names with the works. There are many differ­ent types of art on display. For example, a visitor may compare what might be a more familiar medium such as oil painting to a series of computer generated images. 
chairs, brochures for product proposals and cloth works and images. 
_...
Faculty artists with works on display include Frederick Beckman, Father Austin Collins, Jean Dibble, Paul Down, Flanigan, Kevin Firme, Richard Gray, Douglas Kinsey, William Kremer, Lauren Mc­Dermott, David Nelson, Barbara Peterson, John Sherman, Richard Stevens and Don Vogl. 
The exhibit runs through March 18 and is free to the public. Museum hours are 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through 
sugar and water are added to dilute it. Another popular beverage is Rompope which looks like eggnog and tastes like a vanilla-flavored liqueur. 
I have eaten a few delicacies that I found a bit hard to swallow once I found our their English translations. I had fried squid for the first time, which is really pretty good. At the same meal, I had an appetizer of tiny reddish-black patties. I forget the Spanish word for these, but 
Overall, most aspects of Mexico City are uniquely Mexican, not American. The food and entertainment in Mexico are just a small part of what this city has to offer, and when you've been in another country for such a short period of time, you find yourself doing a lot of comparing and con­trasting. But based on what I've seen so far, I think that just about anyone would enjoy a trip to Mexico City. 
tion opened January 28 with a public reception. A mixture of students, faculty, and the gen­eral public attended the open­ing and took advantage of the opportunity to examine and compare the variety of art be­ing produced by the University's art faculty members. 
The first Faculty Exhibition was held in the late 1960s. Since then it has become an an­nual event. Due to renovations, the exhibit was not held the last 
An assortment of sculpture is displayed, demonstrating con­trasts in concepts, materials (such as metal. wood and ce­ramic) and design. One may be caught off guard passing the "Soul House" created by Father James Flanigan in which a viewer looks into a sculpture and finds a reflection of him­self staring back. Other types of work include photographic presentations, "sculptural" Saturday, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Thursday during class session and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday. The museum is closed on Mondays. 
Upcoming events at the Snite include "Richard Diebenkorn: The 41 Etchings Drypoints" running from February 11 to April 8. Also, a photography exhibit titled "New Traditions: Thirteen Hispanic Photogra­phers" will be on display from February 25 to May 6. 
Tuesday, February 1_3, 1990
page 10 The Observer 
Villanova upsets Syracuse, Michigan State defeats Iowa 
PIIILADELPIIIA (AP) -Chris Walker scored four points in the final 71 seconds as Villanova stunned fourth­ranked Syracuse for the second time this season with a 60-56 Big East Conference victory Monday night. 
Walker made a 3-pointm with 
1:11 to play and hit the first of two rn~n throws for a 58-56 lead with 12.2 seconds left. LancP Miller seal1~d the victory with a pair of free throws to snap a six-game winning streak for Syran1se (18-4, 8-4). 
Tlw Wildcats (14-12, 6-7), who dPfeated the unbeaten and top-ranked Orangenwn 93-74 on Jan. 6 in Syracuse, traiiNI 29-2!i at halftime as both teams w1~r~~ cold. Syracuse shot 39 pPrcPnt and Villanova 28 p1WCI'nt in the first half. 
Villanova took its first IPad sinen tlw opening basket 2:48 into tlw second half when Gn•g 
Woodard scored off a break to put the Wildcats ahead 32-31. Rodney Taylor's basket at 
3:34 gave Villanova a 54-51 lead but Syracuse came back with five points. including Michael Edwards' only two baskets of the game, to lead 56-54. 
Walker's 3-pointer put Villanova on top 57-56 and Syracuse failed on two final trips down the court, with Edwards and Billy Owens miss­ing shots. 
Syracuse went without a field goal for more than 7 1/2 min­utes in the first half until OwPns reboundPd a missed free throw for a 2:{-1 7 lead with 
4:39 to play. 

Taylor led Villanova with 17 points and Woodard added 14. Derrick Coleman had 18 and Owens 17 for Syracuse. 
MichiganState 80 Iowa 70 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP)-Kirk Manns tied his own Big Ten record of eight three-point baskets and scored 30 points Monday night to lead No. 21 Michigan State to an 80-70 vic­torv over Iowa. 
In beating Iowa for the sec­ond time this season, Michigan Statf~ (20-5, 9-3) won its fourth consecutive game while tlw llawkeyes {11-11, 3-9) dmppnd their third straight. 
The Spartans scored I 0 of the final 12 points of the first half for a 34-26 lead at the in­termission and then began the second half with a 9-2 spurt that gave them them a 43-28 lead with 16:41 remaining. 
A three-point shot by Manns 
at the 14:41 mark made it 48­
32 and the Spartans took their 
biggest lead of the game, 64­
39, on Manns' layup with 7:!i9 
left. 
Manns, shooting 47 percent this season from three-point range, made eight of 13 and equaled the record for a con­ferenee game. Manns also had eight thn~e-pointers against Purdue on Jan. 25, 1989. Thn record originally was set by Indiana's Jay Edwards against Minnesota on March 10, 1988. 
Mike Peplowski added 12 points for tlw Spartans. Iowa was led by James Mos1~s with 18, Jay Webb with 13, LPs Jepsen with 12 and Aein Earl with 10. 
Duke 102, Stetson 67 
OHLANDO, Fla. (API-Sixth­ranked Duke reached the 20­victory mark for the seventh consecutive season by routing Stetson 102-67 Monday night as Alaa Abdelnaby scored 18 points and Christian Laettner added 17. 

Stetson (9-15) kept pace for a while, taking a four-point lead midway through the first half and trailing 44-37 at the inter­mission. But tlw Blue Devils (20-4) took control early in tlw second half and blew tlw game open despite thn loss of leading scon~r Phil I11~ndnrson. who sprained his lnft ankle in the first half and may bn out for as long as a week. 
With llnnderson out, Bill McCaffery scored all 12 of his points in thn first 10 minutes of tlw sl'eond half to lwlp Duke opl'n a 72-!i2 lnad. 
"Bill picked us up," Coach Mikl' Krzyznwski said. "In a ganw like this, you rwPd a playPr to Stl'p forward. 
Classifieds 
I NOTICES 
Word Processing 
Can return on disk 
Pick up and delivery 
271-9114 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING term 
paperslreportslletterslresumes. 
Pick up & delivery available. 277­
5134 Cathy. 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
Shipping, Copies, Cards. 
Laser Quality For 
Papers, Reports, Resumes, Etc. 
277-MAIL 
YOU WANT A GREAT JOB ... Alumni Senior Club applications lor bartenders and managers now available in Student Activities Office. 
WORD PROCESSING & TYPING. 
REASONABLE PRICES. 
289-1743. 
RIDE NEEDED 
to St.Louis, this weekend! 
Will pay $$. Call Josh #1525 
LOST/FOUND 
$$$REWARD$$$REWARD$$$ 
Lost pair of black lined leather 
gloves. II found please call 
Claudine x4045. 
HELP...IIost a sapphire/diamond 
ring! High Sentimental 
value··•reward 
Call Debbie 2935 
LOST Brown Leather Jacket taken from party at 304 Campus View. I really like it so please return it...or else I'll call crime stoppers. No questions asked #1804 (Brian) 
FOUND: RING IN 116 O'SHAG 
CALL X 4852 -JEANMARIE 
LOST A GREY GLASS CASE WITH A PAIR OF GLASSES (GOLDEN COLOR). IF YOU FIND IT PLEASE CALL MENG 23g. 5791. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. 
FOUND: CROSS PEN IN ROOM 
123 OF NIEUWLAND. CALL 
X4098 TO Clf\IM. 
Lost at North Dining Hall: Blue 
backpack wl grey suede bottom 
containing 2 red notebooks. II 
found, PLEASE call Mike x4057. 
LOST Small, black leather purse with the word "EXPRESS" on it Lost Tues. 216. No money, but other valuable items inside. I can identify it from 20 feet and I want it back. Return it now and no questions will be asked. otherwise... #4145 
LOST 
Small, black leather purse with the 
word "EXPRESS" on front Lost 
Tues. 216. No money but other 
valuable items contained inside. I 
can identity it from twenty teet and 
I want it back. Return it now and no 
questions will be asked, 
otherwise... #4145 
WANTED 

CRUISE SHIPS Now hiring all 
positions. Both skilled and 
unskilled. Apply from home. For 
information Call: (615) 779-5507 
Ext R-200. 
EARN $300-$500 PER WEEK 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. 
CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B­
340. 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII Countries.AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING A PIANO IN GOOD CONDITION. DO YOU HAVE ONE YOU'D LIKE TO SELL TO ME? CALL SHIRLEY@ 239-5303 BETWEEN 8:30AM & 3::)0PM. 
Ride needed to COLUMBUS, OH Friday 2116. Call Jackie x4114 
COUNSELORS, summer camp for MR. June tO-August 18, Orlando, FL (407) 889-8088. 
NO SPORTS PICTURES WANTED Will pay good money for Football, Basketball pictures call Tom@ 2185 
NEEDED: A ride to Ball State any 
weekend x 1938 
Summer job interviews -Average earnings $3,400. University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories, hires over 200 college students for their summer sales program. Top earnings $5,000­$8,000. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory. Positions also available in other university markets. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill. NC. Looking for enthusiastic, goal­oriented students for challenging, well-paying summer job. Internships may be available. Interviews on campus Tues., Feb. 
20. Sign up at the Career & Placement Services. 
WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OR 
BIG SCREEN TV PLUS RAISE UP 
TO $1.400 IN JUST 10 DAYS!! 
Objective: Fundraiser 
Commitment: Minimal 
Money: Raise $1.400 
Cost: Zero Investment 
Campus organizations, clubs, frats. sororities call OCMC: 1 (BOO) 932-052811 (800) 950-8472, ext. 10. 
NEEDED: A ride to Ball State 
any weekend x1938 
Models wanted for Advl:mced Hair Cutting Class during the week. For more information call Cosima's 277-1875 
French Graduate Student 
needs living accomodations near 
campu:, -call Didier Laurens ­
days 239-7596 EXCEPTIONAL SUMMER OPPORTUNITY--Be a counselor at CAMP WAYNE, Northeastern Pennsylvania, 2112 hours-NYC. Co-ed 6123-8121 . Salary, travel allowance and room and board. Option-pre-camp work starting 6110. Warm, fun family atmosphere. Specialists for all sports, waterfront, camping, computers, arts. Campus Interviews March 23,-1990 10-5. Write Box 823, Lynbrook, NY 11563 or call 516-559-4562 
FOR RENT 
4 Bdrm home for rent 
1122 Blyler Place 
(616)695-3786 
House for 1990-91 school year 
Furnished, secure home, 5 
bedrooms, WID 
Close to NO 
Competitive rent264-6010 
ROOMMATE NEEDED. Own room in house near campus. Quiet, comfortable. Furnished or un­furnished. Considerate, non­smoker a must. $225/mo. Call 232-9952. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
3 BDRM. HOUSE. 2 BLKS. FROM CAMPUS. 234-1714. 
WANTED TO RENT · SUMMER APT: Ex NO staffer and wile desire to rent furnished apartment tor summer, preferable in Mishawaka. Non-smokers, references. Write 135 Lakeview Dr., Mulberry, Fla. 33860 or call (813) 425-4404. 
FOR SALE 
Is It True...Jeeps tor $44 through the Government? Call tor facts! t­708-742-1142 Ext. 7316. 
NEG 54" projection TV PERFECT FOR DORMS Call NO Dept of Comm. &Theatre 239-7054 
TICKETS 
NEED 3 TICKETS FOR NO VS GEORGIA TECH. JOHN X3853 
Really need two Missouri Tickets. 
$$$Call Pete #2043. 
Leave message. 
$NEED GA's lor Georgia Tech$ 
call Jim x1646 
Need one ticket for Missouri 
Call Matt x1213 
HEY NOW!! I NEED DEAD TIX FOR LANDOVER,MD SHOWS (SPRING BREAK) MARY 2593808 
OH BOY DO I NEED MISSOURI BASKETBALL TICKETS! CALL X3601. 
The Observer accepts ctassilieds every business day from 10 a.m. lo 3:30 p.m. al I he Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including spaces. 
D. Wirthman-HAPPY BIRTHDAY. 
························oesparatel 
y need two Missouri B-ball tickets. Call Kristen at #2670 
PERSONALS 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist. happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal, confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864-5512 
Parrot Heads Forever !!! 
0 SONY 3.5" DISKETIE SALE'!' 0 $1.49 each or 10 for $12.99 THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune 
TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO 
ENTER YOUR VALENTINE 
CLASSIFIEDS. DEADLINE IS 3 
PM. DON'T BE LATE. 
PHYSICIAN AND WIFE CAN PROVIDE SECURE, STABLE. LOVING HOME FOR YOUR BABY. EXPERIENCED PARENTS OF ADOPTED 2 YEAR OLD. LEGAL. PRIVATE ADOPTION. CALL COLLECT 513-891-1583. 
Looking tor Love in all the wrong places? Try something new --February 13 
Matchmaker, Matchmaker, 
make me a match, lind me a lind, catch me a catch. February 
13 

Flowers for Sale'!!! People for Sale?!?! A Valentine Event you won't want to miss. February 13 
Have you ever wondered what you could do with a few cheerleaders? Find out -February 
13 

"3 Basketball players and a 
wrestler" Coming soon to an 
auction near you!!l February 13 
THE VALENTINE AUCTION 
Buy a date with your favorite 
campus celebrity: 

•Fr. 
'Monk' Malloy 


•Chris 
'Zarro' Zorich 

•Chuck 
'WNDU' Freeby 

•The 
Rocket 

•The 
Irish Guard 

•
The Leprechaun 


•The 
Cheerleaders & many more! The Valentine Auction is Tuesday, Feb. 13, 9p.m.-t a.m. at Theodore's. There will be door prizes. 


THE RAFFLE Buy a chance at the over $1700 in 
prizes to be won at the Valentine Auction on Tuesday, February 13 at Theodore's. It's only a buck and is available at the dining halls at NO and Haggar Hall (downstairs) atSMC. 
THE FLOWER DELIVERY Give that 'special someone' a surprise flower for Valentine's Day. It's just a buck and we deliver on Feb. 14! 
Need Ride to or near Pitt 2115-16 or any wknd $$ JoAnne 1270 
hiag you old gray stud! (Gee, I guess you do resemble a horse in some ways...) Te amo-Your Maiden 

CLUB 23 

Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE Open for dinner 5 -11 pm Monday to Saturday 
THE CLUB 23 

Featuring up & coming bands. Don't miss our evening specials. 234-3541 'MO' 
BEST SPRING BREAK TRIPS! Bahamas cruise + 6 days $279. includes meals, parties, accomodations, some rooms have kitchens, leaves from Ft. Lauderdale. Cancun 8 days $399. 6 days Jamaica $369. Spring Break Travel 1-800-638-6786. 
/\1\MIIIIIIIIII\AIIIIIIIIIIII/IAIIIIII/Iflflll/lflll/1/l.ll/\/\1111/1 
/IIIAIIII/11\111\11/1 
Tracey, I Love You ..... WPF 

ll.lll\l\l\lll\ltllllf\1\lt.llll.lllt.I\I\IIIIIII\II.I\IIIII\111\IIAI\II.I\11 
Seniors............................................... Feb. 13th at Alum.Sr. Club 
from tOpm -2am Got a Date/ Need a Date Senior Formal Spring Raffle 
Win Tuxedoes, Bids, etc.. 
Don't forget 
Friday Lunch Noon-2 at Alumni Sr. Club 
Don't forget 

SUMMER JOBS OUNSELORS-Boys Camp, W. Mass. 
I Girls Camp, Maine Top Salary, Rm!Bdllaundry, Travel Allowance. Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activities: Archery, Arts & Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, Che~rleading, Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Golf, uitar, Gymnastics, Hockey, Horsebacl<, 
Karate, Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Scub}. Soccer, Tennis, Tracl<, WSI, Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: Camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5983. Women call or write: Camp Vega, P.O. Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO THE FIGHTIN' F-GS OF 814 
ll.fiiiii/I.MIII\flll/1./\llllfiiiiiiiii/\IIIIIIIIII.IIIIIIIIII.AIIAAII 
/111/\A/\11.111111/\ 

P.S GO 'NISES, ROLL ON P.E. INTERHALL BASKETBALL! 
BUCKY, Will you be my Valentine this weekend? I'll wear red... 

IRISH MUSIC THE WORLD TOUR w John Kennedy and whoever else shows up. Friday CLUB23 
READ EXODUS 22:18 
READ EXODUS 22:18 
READ EXODUS 22:18 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 
l\l\ltiii\IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII\I\I\I\AI\I\111\I\IIIIIIl\III\1\IIIIIIIIAA 
SUNSHINE AND MARY MAHONEY 
Siiiid! I look like 1--Stevte Nicks' 
What about the farewell drugs. 
Sid? Nancy 

SPRING BREAK 
DAYTONA 
$139 rm only $229 w. trans. 
high quality accommadations 
call Todd 1-800-265-1799 
MOM ALWAYS SAID. 
DON''T PLAY BALL IN THE 
HOUSE 11!!!!!1!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
AUGUSTA AUGUSTA AUGUSTA 
AUGUSTA AUGUSTA AUGUSTA 
the brady bunch is coming'!!!!!!!!! 
the brady bunch is coming!!!!!!!!!! 
I NEED A RIDE TO THE TOM PETIY CONCERT IN CHICAGO ON 2115. PLEASE CALL 284­5090 
Coming soon.. 
Cliff Erickson 
Where? Alumni Sr. Club 
When? Feb 15 & 16 
Check out the New Price on 
Club Cup Nile .............................. 
MJG, 

LIFE IS TOO SHORT FOR ME 
NOT TO TELL YOU HOW I FEEL, I 
LOVE YOU -I ALWAYS HAVE AND 
ALWAYS WILL 
MMM 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY PHIL 
Believe it or not, you have survived 
to lace yet another major holiday 
with me!!! 

Thanks lor your patience and 
support, have a happy v-day 
honey, Love, 

Molly 
Stet, 

Happy Valentines Day and Happy 
Anniversary. I'm sorry I'm not here 
to celebrate them with you. I'll see 
you in May. Still no black shoes. 
-Flo 

CHILDREN AT NOTRE DAME OF DIVORCED PARENTS: Come to a discussion group Tuesday 13, 7:00 pm in Lewis. Details: Christina 3445 
NEED 2 STUD TIX FOR THE 
MAROUETIE GAME CALL AMY 
#2654 ADOPTION 

Physician and wile, happily married for ten years, would dearly love to adopt a baby. We have a comfortable home to share and most importantly lots of love, patience and understanding. We live on 20 rolling acres with a large lawn, pond and woods. We will provide your child with the best educational opportunities. We will pay medical and legal expenses. Please call collect lor a recorded message. (219) 625-4205. 
Tuesday, February 13, 1990 The Observer page 11 
New Mexico St. breaks top 25, Kansas voted new No. 1 
(AP)-For the first time in 20 "There are a lot of good the Jayhawks' two-week stay as and the Orangemen to No. 4. years, New Mexico State has teams in the country jockeying No. 1. The Hoyas (19-2) had 1,423 cracked the weekly Associated to get in the poll," McCarthy The 1-2 matchup is the first points, while Syracuse (18-3) Press college basketball poll. said. "We're just pleased to be since top-ranked North received the only other first­
"It's great, it's good news," in there." Carolina won at No. 2 Georgia place vote and 1,379 points. 
Aggies coach Neil McCarthy The Aggies replaced Indiana Tech 78-77 on Feb. 4, 1986. Michigan (18-4) also moved 
said. (15-6), which fell from the Kansas (24-1) received 58 up two spots to No. 5 with 
The Aggies (20-2 overall, 10-rankings after splitting two Big first-place votes and 1,5 70 1,249 points, while Duke (19-4) 1 in the Big West) used confer­Ten games last week-a 79-71 points from a nationwide panel dropped from fourth to sixth ence victories over Cal-Irvine loss at Michigan and a 98-75 of sportswriters and broad-with 1,170 points after losing and Cal-Santa Barbara last home victory over casters, while Missouri was to Virginia and beating 
School and record Pts Pvs 
week to reach the 20-win Northwestern. named No. 1 on four ballots Maryland in overtime. 

1. Kansas 24-1 (58) ---1,570 2 
plateau for the second straight Meanwhile, Kansas and and had 1,442 points. 
2. Missouri 22-2 (4) 1,442 1 
year and vault into the No. 25 Missouri switched places as the Missouri had been No. 1 for UNLV (19-4) was seventh, 
3. Georgetown 19-2 1,423 5 
spot. 1-2 teams. three weeks until losing at while Arkansas, which dropped 
4. Syracuse 18-3 (1) 1,379 6 
New Mexico State. which beat The two meet Tuesday night Kansas State 65-58 Thursday. to 20-3 after its first Southwest 
5. Michigan 18-4 1,249 7 
Nevada-Las Vegas at home at Lawrence, Kan., with first The Tigers rebounded with a Conference loss-82-77 to 
6. Duke 19-4 1,170 4 
earlier in the season and faces place in the Big Eight at stake 107-85 win over Nebraska on Baylor-fell five place to No. 8. 
7. UNLV 19-4 1,161 9 
the Runnin' Rebels again as well as the top spot nation-Saturday. The Razorbacks had 1,147 
8. Arkansas 20-3 1,147 3 
Thursday night, had barely ally. Missouri won the first Georgetown and Syracuse points, 50 more than Louisiana 
9. LSU 19-4 997 11 
missed the rankings in recent meeting this season, Kansas' each moved up two spots from State (19-4), which moved from 
10. Connecticut 20-4 940 8 
U7tll(")k«;; 
only loss and one which ended last week, the Hoyas to No. 3 11th to ninth. 
11. Oklahoma 17-3 911' 13 12. Purdue 17-4 857 10
Louisiana State gets all votes for women's No. 1 team 
13. Georgia Tech 16-4 821 16 14. La Salle 19-1 801 14
(AP)-Louisiana Tech (21-0), the top, Mississippi (18-5) and East has had two teams in the ranked Stanford enabled UNLV 
15. Illinois 17-5 661 12
the only remaining Division I Connecticut (19-3) moved into poll in the same week. to move to No. 2. The Rebels 
16. Oregon St. 18-3 557 18
women's basketball team with the rankings at No. 24 and No. "We've been going great all (21-1) completed their first­
17. Minnesota 16-5 529 17
a perfect record, was also per­25, respectively. year," said Connecticut coach ever season sweep over Long 
18. Louisville 18-5 512 15
fect in the latest Associated It's the first appearance in Gene Auriemma, "but I don't Beach State and received 1,559 
19. Loyola Marymount 19-4 459 20
Press poll. the rankings since December think a lot of voters outside our points. 
20. Arizona 16-4 439 22
The Techsters, No. 1 for 10 for Mississippi, leader of the region know us." Stanford (20-1), tied with 
21. Michigan St. 19-5 378 23
weeks, received all 66 first­Southeastern Conference, while Meanwhile, ranked teams Washington for first in the 
22. Xavier, Ohio 19-2 285 21
place votes and 1 ,650 points Connecticut, the Big East from a week ago combined for Pacific-1 0, fell to No. 3 with 
23. UCLA 16-5 216 19
from a nationwide panel of leader, made its first appear­11 losses-seven to each other 1,487 points, while Tennessee 
24. St.John's 19-6 190 24
women's coaches. ance of the season. Combined and four to outsiders. (19-4) defeated No. 23 
25. New Mexico St. 20-2 160 ­
While Coach Leon Barmore's with Providence's No. 22 rank­Washington's upset of pre­Northern Illinois and then-No. 
team continued to enjoy life at ing, it's the first time the Big viosulv unbeaten and second-14 Louisiana State. ( ) =Number of first place votes AP 

St. Edward's Hall Valentine Auction will feature several athletes and sports celebrities Scheduled to be auctioned are Chris Zorich, Chuck Freeby, Jamere Jackson, Tim Crawford, the leprechaun and cheerleaders, Joe Fredrick, Elmer Bennett, Daimon Sweet, baseball stars including Ed Lund, tennis players and coach Bob Bayliss, track runners, women's soccer and volleyball players and a variety of football players. The auction will begin at 9 p.m. in Theodore's with a variety of door and raffle prizes. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Racquetball Club will hold a meeting for anyone interested in playing during second semester. The meeting will be held in 343 Nieuwland on Feb. 13 at 8 p.m. Call x 2334 or x 2274 for more information. 
Ski Club will meet to discuss the Winter Park spring break trip at 8 p.m. Thursday in 118 Nieuwland Science. Final payments, room selections and insurance forms will be taken at the meeting. Call x3662 or x2962 for more infotmation. 
Sailing Club will meet at 6:30 p.m. today in 204 O'Shag. Anyone may attend. 
WVFI-AM 640 will air Sportstalk at 8 p.m. tonight. Join Jamey Rappis and Vic Lombardi as they discuss Irish and pro basketball. 
ICEBERG DESAJES 
9:00p.m. 

A debate on ROTC's Compatibility with Notre Dame's Christian Character 
will be held at a dorm near you. 
Get out and support your team. 
ROUND THREE 

~ llam ~ 
All Walsh at Walsh All Cavanaugh at Cavanaugh Neg Oft.Campus t Neg Stanford 
All Siegfried at Holy Cross All St Edwards at St. Edwards Neg HolyCross Neg Grace I 
All Sorln atAIOmni All Flamer! at MorrisseyNeg Alumni Neg Morrissey 
All Keenan at Keenan All Pasquerilla West at Pasquerilla West 
Neg Grace II 
Neg Zahm 

All Of1.CIIIlllUS II at PasQ.Jerllla East All Aannerll at Badin Neg Pasquerilla East Neg Badin 

All Dillon at Breen-Philtips All Farley at FarleyNeg Breen-Philfips
UDENT " 
Neg Carron 

All Asher at lewis 
All Pangborn at Lyons
Neg Lewis 
Neg Lyons

;;~-veJvM~ 
at Howard
19H9 -1990 


page 12 
'Buster' Douglas says he deserves WBA title 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (/\PI­in control of the light. I got a Buster Douglas returned to a little lackadaisical and I leaned boisterous hometown wekome over and got caught by one of Monday, then said it is his shots," he said. "It wasn't a "ludicrous" that anyone would shot that hurt me; it was more dispute his claim as heavy­of a push. He throws his whole weight champion. body through his punches. 
Douglas knocked out previ­When I fell I was very coherent. 
ously unbeaten champion Mike I immediately picked up the Tyson in the 1Oth round Sunday count. Then. the count was six, in Tokyo. But the decision is so I just got up at eight and now under review. was ready to continue." 
The World Boxing After standing, he took one Association and World Boxing step toward Tyson before the Council withheld awarding their bell sounded to end the eighth belts after Tyson and promoter round. 
Don King said that rcfen~e "Before the seventh or eighth Octavio Meyran took too long round. we had talked about the to count out Douglas after an only thing (Buster) was doing 8th-round knockdown by in the light that we could criti­Tyson. cize was he was n~laxing a little 
The lnWrnational Boxing bit up elose," Johnson said. Federation, however, has given its belt to Douglas. "lie had Mike Tyson on the 
"I don't exactly know what ropes and had him beat and he their beef is," Douglas said. "If relaxed and got knocked down. they dm~ide not to honor me as ".James Douglas did get the lwavyweight champion, it's knocked down. but Mike Tyson ludicrous. I don't think it's did get knocked out." 
right at all. They have no Douglas entered the light as ground to stand on. You all such a heavy underdog that Las saw the light and you saw the Vegas oddsmakers were not results. It should stand." even taking bets on the 29­
Flanked by manager John year-old, called "a journey­Johnson and trainer .J.D. man" by reporters. McCauley, Douglas said if a mistake was made he shouldn't "I don't have anything to say be penalized for it. to them," Douglas said of his 
Douglas said he was aware doubters. "It's always been like that he was seoring against that. They don't know what a Tyson. man has on his mind. I came to 
"I got a little relaxed. I was light, as always." 
Fans gather to cheer Buster 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (/\P)-Fans But two of boxing's three of Buster Douglas brandished governing bodies suspended signs, donned newly made T­Douglas' victory, pending re­shirts and carried an effigy of a view to determine if Douglas battered Mike Tyson on received a long count when Monday as Douglas returned to Tyson knocked him down in the his hometown. eighth round. 
"I came out henJ to see Buster," said Hodney /\. Wright, of Columbus, who The International Boxing played against Douglas in a Federation said it recognized youth football league. "I have Douglas as the champion, but 
sm~n a heavyweight champ be­the World Boxing Council and fore, but never one from the World Boxing Association 
The Observer 

I he Observer I AP Photo 
James "Buster" Douglas (right) returned home after knocking out Mike Tyson in the 1Oth round in 1okyo over 
the weekend. Tyson, returning from the first loss of his professional career, downplayed the defeat. 
Tyson: never unbeatable again? 
NEW YORK (AP)-Mike when he returned to the United the decision because of an ap­Tyson was just another lighter, States on Monday from Tokyo, parent long count on a Tyson bludgeoned to his hands and where less than two days ear­knockdown of Douglas in the knees, his mouthpiece askew lier he was knocked out in the eighth round. Still, the Douglas between his teeth, his left eye 1Oth round by Buster Douglas. knockout was real. and there blown up like a purple souffle. It was his first loss in 38 pro was damage. Suddenly, the world wondered: lights, the first time he'd even Will he ever be anything but or­been knocked down as a pro. "Don King has destroyed dinary again? Certainly, future opponents Mike financially, he's certainly 
"When push came to shove, need never again regard Tyson hurt his image, and now he's and he reached down, he came as invincible, but how will he effectively damaged his ca­up with empty hands," Madison see himself? Is he a beaten reer," said Bill Cayton, who still Square Garden matchmaker man, or can he come baek? has a contract to manage Bobby Goodman said. "I think he's already in the Tyson but is not allowed to 
This was not the Mike Tyson process of convincing himself speak to him. the world had seen. He looked that, when he goes into his next out of shape, sluggish and light, he can't lose," said Dr. "I hope he realizes what a uninspired. He says he has lost Eric Margenau, New York disaster King's machinations before, that he has come back sports psychologist who has they're not alone in feeling the before. But all that happened met and spoken with Tyson. way they do. before he turned pro in 1985, "And I don't think it will take "King has destroyed every three months before his 19th him very long to do." athlete that came to him in the birthday. Tyson's promoter and advi­last seven years," Muhammad 
"It's no big deal." hB said sor, Don King, has protested said. 

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF 
Columbus, Ohio." 
Wright was one of about 5,000 cheering supporters who crowded a gate at Port Columbus International Airport to greet Douglas, who con­founded boxing experts on Sunday with his lOth-round knockout of Tyson. It was Tyson's first defeat in 38 lights. 

suspended the result pending their investigation. They could order a rematch. 
Several supporters carried signs praising Douglas or belit­tling Tyson, and an en­trepreneur was ready with T­shirts that read, "World Champion, Buster," complete with the city's skyline and a likeness of Douglas. 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
APROGRAM ARRANGED BY DEAN JOHN KEANE FOR FRESHMEN WHO WISH TO LEARN MORE ABOUT 
A MAJOR IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
6:30 P.M. 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1990 ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM 
Jerusalem 
Foreign Study Programs 
Summer 1990 Spring 1991 

Information Meeting Tuesday, February 13, 1990 
4:30P.M. 105 O'Shaughnessy 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
Tuesday, February 13, 1990 The Observer page 13 
These people are the real losers 
Owners predict worst 
With impending baseball lockout, fans have no power 
NEW YORK (AP)-tual certainty it will hap­
(1\P)-Jiow many days will it be until pitchers and catchers? Nobody knows for sure. 
Hobert Godfrey, the president of the New Jersey-based National Baseball Fans Association, says owners and players don't care about fan frustration because they know most fans can't resist baseball. 
"The fans have no leverage because they can't stay away too long," said Godfrey, who runs the association in Mt. Laurel, where he owns a deli­catessen and bakery. 
"When they had the big strike in 1981, it was baseball's worst scenario, but the fans came back." he said. "Baseball could be out the whole year and they'll come back." 
Major league owners last Friday reaffirmed their inten­tion to lock out players from spring training camps, sched­uled to open Thursday in Florida and Arizona, until a la­bor agreement is reached. The two sides remain far apart, but negotiations are continuing. 
Godfrey said the spring training lockout won't raise the ire of the fans "unless the sea­son is threatened." He said many fans remain optimistic that an agreement can be reached, but are frustrated be­cause "there is so little we can do about it." 
When Godfrey formed the National Baseball Fans Association in 1984, he envi­sioned the fans getting "the 27th vote"-along with the votes of the 26 teams-in base­ball decisions. 
Just prior to the baseball players' brief strike during the 1985 season, Godfrey organized a one-day fan boycott to show the fans' disgust over the labor dispute. 
"We were out there carrying banners, and in certain areas attendance was down," Godfrey said. "But they still had that strike. Then Commissioner Peter Ueberroth stepped in and said the fans can't be denied. Maybe we were influential, I don't know." 
But despite the former base­ball commissioner's declara­tion, Godfrey said fans have less influence now than ever. And he admits he hasn't gotten to first base in the attempt to fulfill· his personal field of dreams about fan power. 
"I was optimistic, naive," he said. "We've been through this all before, and we've found the fans don't really matter to them. I can't say I've been all that successful because I have no power to back up our point of view." 
Godfrey, 40, a lifelong Cincinnati Reds fan, said he was moved to organize the group when baseball announced during the 1984 season that the Chicago Cubs would be forced to play the World Series in St. Louis because Wrigley Field had no lights at the time. 
"I just" didn't think it was right for the fans to be unrep­resented," Godfrey said. "It just wasn't right that there was a possibility that Cubs fans who had waited more than 40 years to see their team in the World Series would have to go to a park other than Wrigley Field." 
The Cubs were eliminated in the league championship series and didn't make it to the World Series. Under pressure from Major League Baseball, lights have since been installed at Wrigley Field. 
Godfrey said membership in the National Baseball Fans Association peaked at about 3,000 during the brief 1985 strike. 
Commissioner Fay Vincent joined the baseball negotia­tions Monday in a final at­tempt to prevent the spring­training lockout that both owners and players say is "almost a virtual certainty." 
A 45-minute meeting pro­duced little apparent progress, although the two sides agreed to talk again with Vincent on Tuesday afternoon. Vincent held three secret meetings last week, but had not attended any formal bargaining sessions. 
"He'll be part of the solu­tion," Chuck O'Connor, gen­eral counsel of the owners' Player Relations Committee, said. "At this time, the com­missioner is a part of the process. I guess he would characterize his role, as would I, as full-time." 
Spring training is sched­uled to start Thursday and both O'Connor and Donald Fehr, head of the players' union, believe there is little chance it will begin on time. The owners say camps will remain closed until an agreement is reached with players on a new contract. 
"It is now an almost vir­pen," Fehr said of the own­ers' planned lockout. "It's not my impression that the situation has changed at all." 
"I don't have any reason to disagree with Don as far as logistics go," O'Connor said. "I have no reason to believe this can be settled quickly, but I am always optimistic when we're talking." 
The two sides had not met since last Wednesday and neither cared to characterize these talks, the 20th session. There had been hints that the owners might modify their proposals-perhaps even drop their pay-for­performance form u I a­although there was no out­ward indication that it hap­pened. 
"It's my impression we're where we were yesterday and the day before and the day before," Fehr said. "But I didn't expect any break­throughs today." 
O'Connor did not attach any meaning to the relatively short meeting. 
"I think the 45 minutes was what both sides needed," O'Connor said. 
-
The Observer 
University of Wisconsin Platteville 
G 


-
EmphasEs in Liberal Ar1s International Business 
Courses available inSpanish am in English 
Fluencyin Spanish not requinrl 
All courses approved by UW-Platteville and validated on an official UW-PiaHeville transcript 
$3625 persemester for WISConsin & Minnesota residenl!l. $3875 persemester for non·residenl!l. 
Costs include Tuition and FEes Room and Boani inSpanish homes Fieldtrips 
All financial aids apply 
For further informationcontact Study Abroad Programs 308 Warner HaU University of Wlsconsin·PiatteviUe 1Unlvemty Plaza Platteville, WI 53818-3099 (608) 342·1'126 
\butllike your roommates 
awhole lot better if they didn't 
show up on your phone bill. 
John called Chicago. Andy called L.A. Orwas that Pete? 
Don't sweat it. Sorting out roommates is easywhen you getA7&ICallManagerService. Becausewith it, you can all getyour long distance charges listed separately, even though you share the same phone number. And it costs you nothing. 
To find out more about the freeA7&ICallManager Service, dial1800 222-0300, ext. 600. It'll make both your bills and your roommates much easier to liVe with. 
© 1990AT&T 




The Observer
page 14 

Men's tennis perfect over weekend 
Tennis team does not lose a single set at Eck Pavilion 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
llow much can one team accomplish in one day of com­petition? 
After playing 14 straight hours of collegiate tennis at the Eck Pavilion on Saturday morning, day and night. the Notre lhtmn's mpn's tennis team IHiwrgt>d not only with fa­tigtwd bodies but also with thn~n convincing virtorins that left its opponents dt>jncted. 
Tlw Irish did not lose IJilP sPt tlw PntirP day against Westt>rn Mirhigan. Soutlwrn Illinois and Bowling c;ri'Pn. Admittedly thnsn arP IPssPr tPams. but tlw Irish blanked WPstt>rn Michigan 'J-0, Soutlwrn Illinois. 6-0, and Bowling Gnwn. 6-0. Tlw Soutlwrn Illinois and Bowling

-
NBC has pay-per-view Olympics 
NEW YOHK IAPI -NBC will supphmwnt its 150 hours of 1992 Summer Olympic eoveragc with mon~ than 600 hours of secondary sports and trials on pay-per-view cabhL 
It marks the first time a ma­jor sporting ewnt other than boxing will be shown exten­sivPiy on pay-pPr-viPw. 
Under an agwenHmt by the network with tlw Cablevision Systems Corporation, viewers will pay bdwePn $100 and $150 to get access to eovPragn from Barn~lona unavailabln on thn nntwork. 
It will eonrPntratP on I0-12 sports, showing prPiirninarins in such major Pwnts as track 
Davis 

continued from page 20 
tPnd \IotrP l>arnP. A ManagPmPnt Information Systnms major, slw n~aliznd that haskPthall could givn her tlw opportunity to recnivn a gn~at nduration lwn•. 
"I would probably havn gone to Ill (Indiana Uniwrsity)," nx­plains Davis, "but I visitnd lwrP and l'nll in low with the place." 
Whiln tlw junior is unsurn of twr plans after rollngn, Davis's imnwdiatn futurn includes a match-up tonight with MCC foe Butler. Thn away ganw should bn quitn a challnngn according to Md;raw. sinc1~ the Bulldogs

-have won their last 12 of 13 games. They arn 'J-1 in the eon­ft~rnncP and suiTnrPd tlwir last ddnat .Jan. 1) wlwn tlwy rame to South BPnd and wnn• trouncnd by tlw Irish 74-51J. "We took tlwm out of tlwir offnnsP narly on and jumpPd to a big IPad," rnmPmbnrs McGraw. "but thPn tlwy playnd us nwn in thn sPeond half." Notn~ Danw (15-hl won that gamn by dnstroying Bullnr's of­flmse through a man-to-man pn~ss. Md;raw says hnr team will try a similar stratngy tonight. but that it will be mon~ diiTicult · to play Butler in Indianapolis. ''I'm sun~ tlwy will play well at home and I know they arc pumpnd to play us." MeGraw says. Fortunately the Irish will be ready for the contPst. After last week's game against Loyola. both Davis and Sara Liebschcr wern a little beaten up. Davis required six stitches in her head. while LiebsehPr injured her tongue and has had trouble eating ever sinen. Yet McGraw contnnds that thn week's rest has rejuwnatcd her squad. "We're rmtdy to play," McGraw insists. 
Green matches were confined to singles competition because of tinw restraints. 
"We tested our depth. got three wins and everyone should fe1~l good about themselves," said Bayliss, commenting on his constant lineup shuffling of the day. "We are as deep as we thought we were. We have some bonifi1~d performers including freshman Chris Wojtalik who wn know we can count on in the future." 
Thl' Notre Damn Quadrangular Pnabled Bayliss to play soml' of thosn athletes who usually do not lind them­selves in tlw liiwup. while still pitting the !Pam against tradi­tional oppmwnts. 
"With the NCAA limit on the numbPr of playing days, wn an~ forced to play some double-
and field and swimming; bas­kt~tball ganws shown only in part on thP network: additional boxing and what the network called specialty sports such as nquestrian and water polo. 
The cable coverage will bn available 24 hours a day, live and taped. on as many as thrnc ehanm~ls at oncn. It will con­tinun uninterrupted by eom­nwrdals. 
"In our prnvious Olympic eov­nntgn, we'vn sought to meet the nnnds of two diiTnrnnt audi­nrH·ns." said Tom Hognrs. pn~s­idl'nt of NBC Cable and Busirwss Dewlopnwnt. 
"Sornn pPopln wanted com­plete coverage of their favorite 
headers and even triple headers to maintain the traditional teams," said Bayliss. "We are trying to work in context that we are playing a national schedule and continue to play regional teams." 
"Playing everyone helps the 
confidence of the lower guys," said Bayliss."These guys work just as hard as those who play 
regularly so it is good to get thmn in the matches." 
The Quadrangular also was a nice breathnr in tho most chai­IPnging Notre Dame schedule in recent times. On the horizon. the Irish will battln the Deacons of Wake Forest on Thursday night at 6:30 p.m. at the Eck Pavilion. The w1wkend will bring Colorado, Iowa, and Ball St. to Notre Damn. 
sport and othnr people wanted to see the memorable momnnts of all Olympic sports. The cov­erage we'll provide will allow us to tap the market for expanded eoverage without at all affect­ing traditional eovorage, mean­ing we'll snrve the ncedds of both audiences bntter than evPr bnforn." 
NBC will pay $401 million for tlw rights to the Olympics. llow mueh the pay-pnr-vinw smvi1~n will take in is opnn to question, dnpending on how many sub­scribers take the service. 
NBC estimated that as murh as $325 million would conw from pay-per-view subscribers. 


OAKLAND. Calif. IAI'I­Jose Cansnco agnwd Monday to a tmn-ynar. $2 million contract with thn Oakland Athlnties. a $400,000 raise over last year but w1dl shy ol' the hugn totals otlwr supnr­stars havn rneeived this wintnr. 
The right lielder had bet~n scheduled to have an arbi­tration !waring in Los Angeles on Wndrwsday. Ill~ was seeking $2.2 million while the A's wPre offpring $1.6 million, tlw same as last year. 
Canseco, 25. hit .261) with 17 home runs and 57 HBis in 1989 after missing the lirst half of tlw year with a hro­
YOU'LL NEVER 
LOSE 
THE CONTEST 
LOOKING LIKE' 
THIS! 

!}{]ff.1fP!PW ~~!J!J® ®000/f!}{]@ff-1 W 
fJ!J~ffj [J))%{0~f) 
rJ@[J)) ~lf[J))®UU 
Love,Tanz,Cooch, 

1, 
Eric, Col, Melissa, w.l 
When the Great American Dream isn't Great 
Enough 
Have you considered? 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR 
A one-year program located at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame for college graduates who are seriously interested in exploring a vocation as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
For information: 
Fr. John Co•ley, CSC Vocation Diredor lo:x 541 Notre Dame, Ill 46556 239-6315 
ken ldt hand. Tlw IIJH8 American League Most Valuable Player hit .294 with IHlP titanic honwr and 3 HBis in the AL playoffs against Toronto and hit .357 with a 
home run and 3 HBis against San Francisco in tlw World SPries. 
llis 1990 salary will match that or tPammatn Hickey llendPrson. making tlw out­fielders technically tlw team's higlwst-paid players. But both IIPndPrson and StPwart. whose salary is $1-\50,000 this year. nH·ently got lwl"ty signing bonus1•s with multi-year. multimil­lion-dollar deals that CansPCO could not attain. 
Tuesday, February 13, 1990 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD • 

Tuesday 
4 p.m. Lecture, ''Pride & Prejudice: Women at the Piano," Jeffrey Jacob, Chairman of Music, SMC. Little Theatre. Sponsored by SMC Dept. of Music. 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "The Merkurjev-Suslin Theoi'em Nine Years later," Bill Jacob, University of California. Second Floor Math Building. Coffee 4:00. Sponsored by Kenna Lectures in Mathematics. 
CAMPUS 

Tuesday 
7 p.m. film, "The Moderns." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 
9 p.m. Film, "Report," "Quixote," and "Dangling Partici­ple." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by NO Communi­cation and Theatre. 
Wednesday 
12:10 p.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous. Holy Cross House. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Irish Fried Flounder. Pasta Bar Garden Veg Quiche Hot Meatloaf Sandwich 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
14 Millennia! Church members 1B"Step-!" 
19 Director 23 Picnic salad 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-----------------1 :GIRLS! SPECIAL DAY-BEFORE-VALENTINt S-r I DAY CflRTOON/CARDf ~ QfVlJ~ I 
:r?~G r?"rrJ .,VlJW& : 

I \J TO THAT SPEC/flL IN56NSITIV E : 
I To: 

FROM;

I I I 
I 
I I I I I 

: MY VALEN~WIN(k .;Jt~~i~e· : 
.._ ________ ..:::: _____ j 

2·13 

ACROSS 
1 Lend a hand 5 Dear soul 9 Mom's order re 
eating 13Aka 15 Big name in 
essay writing 16 Singing syllables 17 Weather prediction in 
Aug. 20 Doctors' org. 21 Licorice 
flavoring 22 Tear a passion to tatters 23 Hide 
24 TV judge 25 "Rodeo," for one 28 Noah Webster's 
forte 30Crossas­31 As, to some 
admen 32 Scot's negative 35 Vacillates 39 Hankering 40 Chichi 41 Grant Wood, 
e.g. 42 Ostentatiously colorful 44 Thin layer,as of 
plastic 45 Happened to 48 Phrase re some 
last foods 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
49 Solo 50 Asparagus unit 52 "Exodus" hero 55 Weather term in 
winter 58 Ore deposit 59 Gen. Rob't­60 Dough; 
cabbage 61 Celebrity 62 Linen source 63 J. Edgar's group 
DOWN 
1 Guffaw, guffaw! 2 Jack of TV's "The Dakotas" 3 One of Judy's 
girls 4 Be worthwhile 5Admit 6 "Oh, woet" 7 Golconda 8 Terrible 9 Small groups 
10-rye (deli offering) 
11 Upper crust 


36 Transport by wagon 37 Illustrative sketch 
38 Singer Perry 
42 Neuter is one 

43 Composer Wilder 
44 Lallygag 
45 Cries lustily 
46 Prufrock's creator 47 Filmdom family name 

24 Songbird 
25 Pamper 
26 Competent 
27 A Spinks 28 Clever 29 All right 31 Nobleman's title 32"-layme 
down. " 33 Bates or King 34 Writer Ferber 
SPELUNKER 
48 Kind of dialed message 50 Spot for indoor cats 51 Entreaty 52 Minute particle 53 Part 54 Bani-Sadr's homeland 56 A famous Hugh, for short 57 Gear tooth 
JAY HOSLER 



Tuesday, February 13 8:00P.M. Library Auditorium 

) 

) . ,. 
) ~)))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))~. 

Sports
page 16 Tuesday, February 13, 1990 
FreSh'nl8.1'hCOYIEiw"'dUSIIlies to track WOr1dych8mpionships 
Krissi Davis means double trouble 
Junior forward a threat in rebound and scoring columns 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 

Wlwnnver Notn~ Dame head coach Muffet McGraw invites the women's basketball team over for dimwr. junior guard Krissi Davis does not inquire what's for din111~r but immedi­ately asks the proverbial ques­tion, "Who's cooking'!" 
"If Matt's cooking then it's firw," chuckles Davis. referring to McGraw's husband. "othPrwisP I havp to give Coach a hard time." 
WhiiP Davis may have sonw doubts about lwr coach's r.uli­nary skills. Davis's own talent on tlw court cannot be denied. 
"Krissi has really come into her own recently," says McCraw. taking Davis's good­naturnd kidding in stride. "Siw's bPPn taking tlw ball to the baskPt and corning up with the kPy buckets for us." 
Davis's play in past weeks has been sensational. While she l1mds the team in rebounds with 
6.9 per game. the Noblnsville, 
Ind. native ranks second in s~oring wi~h 11.1 ppg.. In addi­tum. Davrs ha~ tall.':-d fo_ur dou~l~-doubles .t~ts. year 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 

Notre Damn freshman John Coyle won the Junior Division World Championship Qualifying Cross Country trials this past Saturday in Seattle to become eligible to rPprHsnnt the United States in the World Championships in France on March 24. 
Coyle, who ran this fall on the Irish cross country team, fin­ished first in the Junior Division. whirh includes ath­letes 19 years old and younger, in a time of 22 minutes nat. lie managed to win on a short course which measured only 7,700 meters. Most cross coun­
' 
scoring and rebounding) and has contributed in some way to every Irish victory. Through steals, rebounding and scoring, Davis has been dubbed a team leader who constantly does the "little things" that key Notre Dame wins. 
"She does so many intangible things that don't appear on pa­
•per," praises McGraw. "She's a smart player who doesn't make mistakes, and we need that sta­bility. Plus she's been steady running the offense inside, crit­ieal to us on the backboard and tough at breaking the presses we've faced." 
Davis views hPr position on the team in a similar way. 
"Being an upperclassman, I have to keep everyone calmed down out thnre and let people know what we've got to do to win." says Davis. 
In fact, Davis's skills are so nncessary to the Irish that McGraw often is reluctant to give Davis a rest. 
"She's the kind of player you want to have out there all the time," says McGraw. 
Davis admits that she feels an ad?ed ~ressure to be ment~lly pn.pan.d for every game. 1~e 
t•y oou""' .,,qooo mete" 
long. 

The 5-9 Lindcroft. New Jersey native ran unattach~d in the nwet, a~d out-r~ced hrs nearest competrtor by mght seconds on a ~~ry sloppy course. . 
fhose were the worst condr­lions I've ever run in," said Coyle. "The bad weather didn't bother me, though. Everybody has to run the same course, so I just accepted it and was able to run well." 
Said Notre Dame cross coun­try coach Joe Piane, "That's a real honor, not only to win, but to be asked to represent the United States. lie has the op­portunity to run against some of the best competition in the world." 

The Observer I John Cluver 
The men's and women's fencing teams overcame Ohio State , as well as all other takers, in team competition over the weekend. 
Haysbert has reduced the 
roster size to eight. increasing 
Davis's playing time even more. 
While the lack of substitutions 
can tire her physically, Davis 
thinks the team's small size has 
its advantages. 
"It's been fun with a small 
group. You get to know every­
body better and it's easier when 
you know how everyone plays," 
comments Davis. 
McGraw has encouraged Davis to be more "selfish" with the ball and to lqok for the open shot more. Davis agrees that she needs to increase her shooting to be more of an asset to the tfmm. 
''I'm content just to set screens for everyone else," says Davis, "but I need to bn a threat offensively so our oppo­nents don't just focus on Karen Robinson." 
Off the court. Davis has a reputation for being a joker. It's her "evil twin" that releases her on-court intensity through what McGraw calls "bad jokes" that includes criticizing her coach's aptitude in the kitchen. 
Davis was not kid?ing, how­ever, when she decrded to at-see DAVIS I page 14 

chance fo• Coyle to boo" hi• Conmdly. ··And then with half 0 
confidence after a cross coun-mile to go he broke fn~n." try season in which he was set F1~1low Notre DamP runner back by illness. Nick Hadkewieh also compPted 
in the Qualifier. finishing 11th 
"John was kind of disap­pointed with his cross country season. He felt he let the team down, but it wasn't his fault. He just got sick. This is a big confidence-builder for him and it proves he's one of the best in the country," said Connolly. 

"1 got out strong and was able to keep the lead." said Coyle. "J got a good push at the
John Coyle 
end and was able to finish 
Notre Dame assistant coach about eight seconds ahnad of 
Tim Connelly accompanied 

the next guy." Coyle on the trip to Seattle. lie "He basically got to the front said that this race was a good · 
and stayed-there," said 

ND fencers enjoy 'mild' weekend; edge Ohio ~~~~~..£r!.!~~ ~~t~!h~~r.~,."_ 
By CHRISTOPHER FILLIO 
Sports Writer 
Just as foil captain Joel Clark 
had predicted, the Irish fencers 
enjoyed a mild weekend outing, 
save for a little turbulence on 
the part of the Ohio State 
Buckeyes. 
"We knew from the very out­set that OSU would give us our money's worth," said Clark, a three-time monogram winner. "However, the team was quite confident that we possessed the proper tools and discipline to overcome any such challenges." 
On the whole, the Irish fencers fared quite well, as head coach Mike DeCicco had expected. 
''I'd definitely regard the weekend as a successful one," said DeCicco. "There were a few individuals there that we knew would give our top fencers the kind of competition they need. But we learned the hard way when we ran into Ohio State." 
Indeed true, as the Buckeye epee squad edged out the Irish by a 5-4 margin. Meanwhile, State (5-4) and easily cruised past Oberlin, Northwestern, and Case-Western Reserve. 
"Needless to say, we're going to have to do much better than that," said DeCicco of the epee squad. "Our foil and sabre teams all have a good chance of qualifying for the NCAAs. The big question mark is our ef)ee.·: 
The Irish epeeists will need top performances for the bal­ance of the season if they are to challenge for the national title. This means that Notre Dame cannot well afford fencers like Jubba Beshin, David Calderhead and Geoff Pechinsky to have weekends where they drop two bouts apiece. It simply will not give them even an outside chance of any title hopes. 
Otherwise, Notre Dame en­joyed smooth sailing on the weekend's fencing circuit. Both the men's foil and sabre teams steamrolled over all five oppo­nents, suffering only one loss each in ninety-five bouts. In all, 

~f--,. ' 
... 
.~,.:;:: 
The Observer 1Patrick Kusek Junior Krissi Davis and the women's basketball team take on the Butler Bulldogs on the road tonight. Davis provides consistent and t tandin Ia for a de leted Irish squad. 
tion with umlefeated rncords. 
For the wonwn, it was onrP again a lopsided alTair as they easily disposed of tlw opposi­tion, inducting Case Western and Obnrlin by 16-0 whitewash­ings. 
Senior Kristin Kralieek was the lone undefeated woman foilist ( 1 0-0), while captain Anne Barreda (12-1) and sophomore lleidi Piper ( 15-1) had but a single loss on the day. 
"With those kinds of results, I'm optimistic enough to think that we'II be challenging the other top teams in the nation come March 24," said DeCicco. "Right now, our major concern in women's foil is who is going to take that number-four spot. That will be critical to present­ing a solid overall team." 
Several underclassmen will participate in this year's Junior Olympic festival during the up­coming weekend. The Irish will close out regular season action with a split squad meet February 24. 
overall. Since the top six run­ners are eligible to run in France, Hadkewieh is the fifth alternate in case some other runners can't make the trip. 
"Playing against the hPst competition in the world will definitely be a learning experi­ence," said Coyle. "You can't put a price tag on nxperiences like this. It will definitely be worthwhile." 
"Everybody's really excitPd for John," said Connelly, "IJp's a good kid, and he's worked really hard for this." 



