
VOL. XXIII NO. 131 WEDNESDAY. APRIL 25, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Chamorro faces conflicts in UNO 
MANAGUA. Nicaragua lAP) -President-elect Violeta Bar­• Bush sends aid/ page 5 rios de Chamorro takes office Wedrwsday alwady faeing divi­sion in the ranks of her victori­Cesar to encourage a split in OLIS coalition over government UNO ranks, even though Cesar posts and treatment of is not a Sandinista favorite be­Nicaragua's outgoing Sandin­cause of his Contra connec­islas. tions. 
The United National Opposi­Barricada, official newspaper tion faces a test of unity in the of the Sandinista Front, ran an National Assembly while cabi­editorial Tuesday saying the net appointees, dun to be sworn Sandinistas would of necessity in shortly after Chamorro's in­play a critical role in the auguration, have yet to be offi­emerging political landscape in dally announced. this nation of 3.5 million resi­
The 14-party coalition dents. brought together everyone "The Sandinista Front, from communists to conserva­although it is not part of the tives in the successful effort to new government, and placing oust President Daniel Ortega's itself strictly within the terrain Sandinistas, in power since of a committed opposition, I 979. But some parties feel cannot renounce playing the they are not getting enough say role of a national arbiter and a in Charnorro administration decisive force in the crisis from polides and appointments. which the new government 
The first test comes Tuesday emerges," the editorial said. afternoon. whP.n the new Na­Many in UNO's political coun­tional Assembly is due to elect a cil, which represents the 14 president. UNO's official choice parties, consider Cesar an op­is Myriam Arguello, a 64-year­portunist. They fired him as old lawyer from the People's campaign manager when both Conservative Alliance. he and Chamorro were out of 
Arguello received 28 votes at the country six months ago. a caurus of UNO's 51 deputies, As soon as Chamorro re­to 2:l for Alfredo Cesar. a close turned, she named Cesar her advisPr to Charnorro. a former personal adviser and appointed nwrnbnr of the Contra rebels' an advisory board that pro­din~dorate and a man with his tected her from council pres­sights set on running for presi­sure. dent in tlw 1996 elections. La Prensa. the Charnorro 
Argrwllo is backed by Vice family newspaper, said Monday l'n~sidPnt dect Virgilio Godoy, the president-elect would prob-and tlw Sandinistas have hinted their :N deputies might vote for see CHAMORRO I page 5 


AP Photo 

Nicaragua's President-elect Violetta Barrios De Chamorro is kissed by Mariano Fiallos, president of the 
Supreme Electoral Council, Monday in Managua as he presents her with documents confirming her election 
as president. Chamorro is scheduled to be inaugurated Wednesday. 
Bishops state policy on ordination of women should be reevaluated 
tion of the celebration of the not explain why women cannot
By CLAIRE ROBINSON 
News Writer Sunday Eucharist." The pope be ordainnd. lin noted that 
says that the vitality of the "traditions can be nnriched 
Bishop William McManus and Chun:~h depends upon this when they arc challenged and Bishop Kenneth Untener realize Eucharistic celebration. subsequently modified." that ·although they must offi­McManus responded, "The Another reason McManus cially support the teachings of preservation of [the apostolic said that the Church eites for the Catholic Church regarding tradition] may be threatening its refusal to ordain women is the position of women, there is the survival of [the celebration that the maleness of priests al­cause for careful evaluation of the Eucharist]." Therefore, lows them to actually take on and consideration of these he said, "For now and for the the role of Jesus Christ in their teachings. foreseeable future, an increas­functions. However. McManus 
Both bishops presented their ingly large number of Catholics feels that the sacramental sign viewpoints in a forum Tuesday. may have to forego the Sunday may have become "extensively The topic of the evening was Eucharist because the Church external." He thinks that "The Future of Women in the does not see itself having the priests should be more like Je­Catholic Church." authority to ordain women to sus internally, and less preoc­
Bishop McManus, former the priesthood." cupied with the external. bishop of Fort Wayne and McManus said that this prob­Bishop Kenneth Untenter of South Bend, spoke first. He lem, the need to forego the very Saginaw, Michigan spoke after opened by pointing out that a vitality of the Church, is a good Bishop McManus. He gave a bishop must be clear and care­reason to re-evaluate and re­presentation consisting of theo­ful in his remarks about the investigate the reasons behind logical observations and per­subject of women in the the doctrine of the Church. spectives. Catholic Church. He said that The main reason why the Untener pointed out that the pope calls upon bishops to Church refuses to change its people used to believe that our try to explain the Church's doctrine is the force of its galaxy was the only one which teachings. Since the teachings strong tradition, said Mc­existed. Once our horizons were must be explained, they must Manus. Traditionally, no one broadened and we were able to not be self-explanatory or im­has challenged the ordination question this basic assumption, mediately evident to all, said only of men. "Traditions are we realized that we were able McManus. precious.. .in the Church, tradi­to obtain information which 
"I have obeyed and will con­tions are sacred," said Mc­contradicted this belief. Un­tinue to obey the pope's deci­Manus. tener observed that perhaps the sion concerning women's ordi­According to McManus, "The Church needs this type of hori­nation," he said. However, he longer and more constant a zon-broadening revelation re­does not oppose respectful tradition, the less open it is to garding its position on women. questioning concerning these change." In addition, the re­Untener also pointed out that teachings. versing of a tradition could un­the term "in persona Christi," 
McManus quoted the pope as dercut the credibility of other commonly used to mean "in the
fhe Observer I David Lee 
Bishop William McManus addressed a forum yesterday on the "Future saying, "Let us bishops work Church traditions," said Mc­person of Christ," was actually of Women in the Catholic Church." Although he maintained a position with all our energy to encour­Manus. incorrectly translated. Actually, of obedience to the pope's decision concerning the ordination of age our people... to maintain But McManus said that the 
see BISHOPS/ page 5

women, the bishop cited several instances which call for careful eval­unaltered the apostolic tradi-maintenance of tradition does uation of the Church's teachings. 
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, April 25, 1990 INSIDE COLUMN 
WEATHER 
~ 
I 
! 
t I 
I 
I 
! ~ 
r 
I I 


Arts and Letters majors are people, too 
We  are  more  nu­ 
merous  than  any  
group of our kind on  
campus,  and  at  the  
same time we are the  A  E kert  
least understood. We  my  C  
are  scorned,  even  Ad Design Manager  
ridiculed,  by  those  
who  simply  don't  
know  what  we're  
about.  We.  are  the  
men and women of  

the College of Arts and Letters, and our persecutors are engineers, pre-meds, and even business majors. 
The myths abound-we live at Waddick's by day, and haunt the halls of O'Shag by night. We never sleep, but spend our nights talking philosophy or writing really strange poems. And, of course, every one of us is a flag-burning liberal. Few "outsiders" take the time to dispel the stereotypes and to re­alize that we are real people. 
Last semester, I always looked forward to going to my economics class, because in the graffiti on the table I could follow the ideo­logical development of what seemed to be a small but vocal engineering cult. 
Leaving out the finer points, their philos­ophy went something like this: while engi­neers are inventing things that will make the world go 'round and their bank balances go up, Arts and Letters grads will be sitting on a rock somewhere, pondering the meaning of life-except for those of us Arts and Letters women who are fortunate enough to land ourselves an engineer-hus­band. 
This is but one example of the abuse Arts and Letters students experience on a daily basis. Or maybe I should say "Arts and Leisure" students, as some of my non-A&L friends are apt to quip. 
What the business majors, the science majors and the engineers fail to realize is that many of the great questions of life with which we, as Arts and Letters students, are confronted can best be pondered while playing volleyball or watching T.V. The world is our classroom, and life is our labo­ratory. 
I can't help but feel a little smug when I think of one of my friends who is a former business major. He used to love to tell me how he would someday be lighting cigars with hundred dollar bills while I was still "finding myself." Much to my surprise, and probably to his as well, he found himself an Arts and Letters student. 
Not all of life's answers can be found in classrooms, text books and vials of blue stuff. This fact is the essence of an Arts and Letters education. 
So, the next time you see an Arts and Let­ters friend who is sunbathing on the quad and appears to be doing nothing, consider that the innocent-looking sunbather is probab~ pondering some very deep philo­sophical question of great significance. And show a little respect, because Arts and Let­ters students are people, too. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Tuesday's Staff  
Viewpoint  News  Sporls  
Kevin Reisch  Kevaleen Ryan  Frank Pastor  
Paul Pearson  Dave Dieteman  
Systems  
Mark Sloan  Accent  Production  
Tim Quinn  Paige A. Smoron  Kristin Costello  
Barbara Bryn  CrisOrtiz  
Graphics  Sarah Rose Fisko  Chris Labaree  
Bradford J. Boehm  
Ad Design  
Circulation  Quinn Satepauhoodle  Scoreboard  
Bill O'Rourke  Kerry Clair  Ken Tysiac  
Matt Novak  Joy Harris  
Amy Eckert  
Lisa Gunsorek  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
60 
COLD Pressure 
® © ~~~~ ~ [I] [3 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphtcsNet 
OF INTEREST 
A Vigil for Lisa Bianco will be held tomorrow at 12:15 p.m. at the Peace Memorial. Donations for her children will be accepted at this time. The vigil is sponsored by Women United for Justice and Peace. 
Of Interests are accepted at The Observer to publicize one-time free events of general interest. The deadline for all Of Interests is 1 p.m. 
Interested in Marketing or Relations? SUB is looking to fill the positions of Account Executives, Marketing Research Commissioners, and Internal and External Relations Commissioners. Please call Barb at 239-7668 to arrange an interview, or come to the second floor of LaFortune. 
WORLD 

A member of the gang that 
Some people might think that fussing over a carried out Britain's Great Train name is much ado about nothing, but those people aren't Robbery of 1963 was shot to death by a named Shakespeare. Of those Who are, about 115 turned young assailant who fled on a bicycle, up to celebrate the Bard's birthday Tuesday at the site of police in Marbella, Spain, said Tuesday. the new Globe Theater. It was the largest gathering of Investigators believe the slaying of Shakespeares since 1964, which was celebrated as the Charles Wilson, 58, may have been drug­playwright's 400th birthday. All seemed proud of their il­related, said a Marbella police lustrious name. Of course, it may be that none of the lat­spokesman who asked not to be identi­terday Shakespeares is related to England's premier 
fied. A young man in a track suit opened fire Monday afternoon on Wilson after calling at the door of the Briton's apartment in this Costa del Sol resort, the spokesman said. 
playwright. Genealogies are hazy on this point. 
NATIONAL 

So you thought you did your part on Earth Day by picking up litter? Now the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine claims that if you are going to be an environmentalist (76 percent of Americans say they are), you've got to oo a vegitarian (that's 3 percent). In other words, chew vegetables and eschew hot dogs to save the world. "If you're a meat eater, you are contributing to the destruction of the environment, whether you know it or not," says Neal Bernard, 
A smiling gunman who was released from a mental hospital despite homicidal and suicidal tendencies opened fire in the food court of a suburban shopping mall Tuesday, killing one man and wounding four people. The man tried to reload the .38 caliber revolver but tossed it into a trash can before calmly walking out and surrender­ing, police said. James Calvin Brady, 31, surrendered to DeKalb County police outside the mall just after shoot­ings, said police spokesman Chuck Johnson. 
president of the 30,000-member committee. 
INDIANA 
The man who built a bomb that maimed a 5-year-old girl at a Kmart store a year ago committed suicide within 36 hours of the blast, authorities said Tuesday. David L. Swinford, 19, shot himself in the head as he sat in a car on a rural road on April 19, 1989, a few hours after having discussed the bombing with his mother and stepfather, said Charles Petersen, resident agent in charge of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms in Indianapolis. 
State highway officials said Tuesday it wasn't known yet how many employees actually will be put out of work through the elimination of 164 jobs in a department reorganization. Many jobs have been eliminated through attrition. Employees still with the department will have time to look for new jobs and will be considered for other state positions. "We really don't know as we start the process how many will be dis­placed," DOT spokesman Jeff Spalding said. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for April 24, 1990 


..(} 0.42 S&P Composite _n_ 330.36 v 0.69 Dow Jones Industrials 2,654.50 {}12.17 

Precious Metals Gold ..(} $3.00 to $375.90 1oz. 
Silver. 10¢ to $5.00 I oz. 

Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On April25: e In 1792: A highwayman named Nicolas-Jacques Pelletier became the first person under French law to be executed by the guillotine. 
e In 1901: New York became the first state to require auto­mobile license plates. The fee was one dollar. e In 1945: Delegates from 45 countries met in San Francisco to organize the United Nations. 
e In 1983: Soviet leader Yuri Andropov invited Samantha Smith to visit his country after receiving a letter from the Manchester, Maine, schoolgirl that had expressed fears about nuclear war. 


WARM STATIONARY 
Yesterday's high: 78 
Yesterday's low: 45 
Nation's high: 94 
(Presidio, Tex.) Nation's low: 24 (Houlton, Me.) 
Forecast: 
Partly sunny and warm 
today. Highs in the lower 
80s. Fair and mild tonight 
with lows from the upper 
50s to around 60. Partly 
sunny and continued 
warm Thursday. Highs in 
the middle 80s. 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
t/'xj 


Wednesday, April 25, 1990 The Observer page 3 

The Observer I David Lee

Rockin' under the sun 
When the sun comes out the Notre Dame campus seems to come alive with students playing sports, lis­tening to music or just laying around on the quads. This weekend's weather is expected to hold as An Tostal gets underway. Featured here is Smoke Taxi performing at the Fieldhouse Mall Tuesday. 

HPC says farewell to Holy Cross 
By PATRICK HEALY 
News Writer 
The Hall Presidents' Council held its final meeting of the I<JWJ-1990 school year, attend­ing to wrap-up details such as hall storage and exchanging summer addresses. 
Student Senate representa­tives announced the passing of two pieces of legislation at Monday's Senate meeting. The first was a resolution encour­aging the withdrawal of U.S. intervention in El Salvador. The second resolution was the passing of Student Body Presi­dent Rob Pasin and Vice-Presi­dent Fred Tomber's cabinet for next school year. 
The Notre Dame Student Players announced their per­formance of the long-running Broadway show "The Fanta­sticks." The production will be held April 26 -28 in Washing­ton Hall at 7:30 p.m. 
The IIPC meeting was notable because it was the last appear­ance of Holy Cross Hall ever at a Council meeting. Noting "what a long, strange trip it's been," Holy Cross Hall presi­dent Pete LaFleur gave a "farewell address" with advice to the new hall presidents. LaFleur advised the new Council members to plan out events for their dorms over the summer, so as not to have any regrets at the end of their tenure. 
He also thanked all those who attended and contributed to Holy Cross Hall's final campus­wide event, the successful Hog­stock concert held on Holy Cross Field Saturday. 

'Take care in little things,' prof. says 
By COLLEEN GANNON 
News Writer 
The importance of the ethics of decision making in our daily lives provided the subject for philosophy Professor Thomas Morris in his "Last Words" lec­ture on Tuesday. 
There are two key things to do in developing morally, said Morris. The first one, he said, is "Throughout your lives, whatever you do, network with sages. Hang around good peo­ple." Morris pointed out that we become like the people we are around. 
"Take care in little things," was the second key idea that Morris mentioned. lie stressed the importance of realizing, "Whenever you make a decision you are never just doing, you are becoming." Ask yourself if you are becoming the kind of person you want to, he said. "Little moral compromises could add up to big mistakes," said Morris. 
He then addressed the strong force of habit in human life. "Getting your imagination into gear" was the one thing power­ful enough to break habits, ac­cording to him. It is important to imagine the consequences of your actions, said Morris. 
"Knowledge is a possession. Imagination is a promise. Knowledge tells us what is. Imagination tell us what could be," he said. 
Morris said that each of us is an artist and our life is our greatest work. Therefore, we must realize every little action is a stroke on the canvas. 
"If we take for ourselves the right basic ethical orientation, and if we take care to develop wisdom and virtue, if we use our imaginations for that most important work of art. we practically guarantee it will be the best that it can be," he said. 
Also, Morris spoke about the problems peopln face today. The constant mobility some business peopln experienen poses one of these problems. The problem stems from the person's inability to lay down roots in a eommunity. aeeord­ing to him. This causns us to narrow our eoneerns to just the company, and eventually they narrow to just ourselves. 
The non-ethical point of view is narrow, short-sighted, and exclusive, while the ethical point of view is broad, long­term, and inclusive, said Mor­ris. "So many of the world's problems come from an exclu­sivity of concerns,". he said. It is important to remember that no one can do it alone, said Morris. 
The audience was treated to a one-man show before Morris reached the heart of his lecture. The show included a skit of Morris at the Hilton in the Car­ribean. A tape recording of Morris' voice informed the au­dience that he was told he only had 36 hours to live, so he said, ''I'm out of here. Do you think I would stay in South Bend if I only had 36 hours to Jive?" 
The rest of the skit involved a humorous telephone conversa­tion and ended with Morris' death from drinking hemlock. Also, he played the guitar and 
sang  a  tune  he  wrote  called,  
"Famou s Last W ords."  
The  Student  Union  Board  

sponsored the "Last Words" lecture series. 


It took Freud 38 years to understand it. You have one night. 
The psych exam is in 12 hours. And your id wants to party. Your ego 
wants to conk out. But your superego knows you need to stay awake 
tonight to cram. 

Fortunately, you've got Vivarin. It helps keep you awake and mentally alert for hours. Safely and conveniently. So all your brainpower can focus on understanding the brain. 
If Freud had used Vivarin, maybe he could have understood the brain 
raster, too. Revive with VIVARIN: 
Wednesday, April 25, 1990

page 4 The Observer 

AP Photo west German Chancellor Helmut Kohl (right) and the East German Prime Minister Lothar de Maziere (left) prepare to begin talks on the German unification in the Bonn Chancellery Tuesday. 
Student Senate criticizes El Salvador for its persecution, murder of Church officials 
By PETER AMEND 
News Writer 
The Student Senate passed a resolution denouncing the per­secution of the Catholic Church at its meeting Tuesday. 
Jay Caponigro, a Notre Dame student who was a member of a NO delegation in El Salvador, proposed the resolution. 
Caponigro said his trip to El Salvador made him realize that NO is well known throughout Latin America. "Due to Notre Dame's reputation...we do have a voice," said Caponigro. His bill elucidated the responsibility of the Salvadoran military for the murders of many religious figures associated with the Church. The bill resolved: 
• 
The Senate demands these murders be investigated by an impartial body and the perpe­trators be brought to justice. 

• 
The Senate demands that the United States government encourage Salvadoran Presi­dent Alfredo Christiani and the Salvadoran military to pursue a 


....... .....-.-f"flf'T ...,.,_""U.S A. 
Tllllo ......................... _.,_ 
..,. ~___......, ___
.......--________
,...................................-. 
"*'-_,,__7""'-........ ­
-· 
U.N. mediated political settle­ment to end the war with the armed resistance. 
• Copies of this resolution are to be sent to: The State De­partment of the United States, President George Bush, U.S. Ambassador to El Salvador William Walker, Christiani, U.S. Senator Richard Lugar, Con­gressman John Hiler, U.S. Sen­ator Christopher Dodd, The South Bend Tribune, and The Observer. 
The Student Senate amended the bill to exclude a clause in the resolve that stated the Sen­ate demands that the United States immediately cease sup­plying military aid to El Sal­vador. 
Student Body President Robert Pasin said he wants the Student Senate to discuss issues outside the sphere of Notre Dame, such as the injustice in El Salvador. The Senate decided not to send out a opinion poll to the student body in regards to the El Salvador bill due to the lack of time remaining in the school year to complete the poll. 
During the officer reports, Student Body Treasurer Jim Hanley said the budget commit­tee is compiling a comprehen­sive plan for next year's expen­ditures. Senior Class President Mike Shinnick said suggestions for the upcoming Senior Disor­ganization Week are needed. Eric Griggs, multi-cultural ex­ecutive council representative, said the Council's fall festival is now being planned. 

Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY 7:30,9:45 
The University Libraries of Notre Dame 
cr~lebrate 

National Library Week April 22-28, 1990 
Special Library Line -239-6680 
Moaday -Thunday, 10:00 LID. -~ PM, Apri123-26, 1990 
Make suggestions! Get answers! University Libraries' administrators will handle calls! 
Win $50 Database search RegiJter at Hesburgh or any of the five branch database locations 
•

Six winners will be drawn 
University Libraries-check them out! 


Germanys fix date of economic union 
BONN, West Germany (AP) ­Chancellor Helmut Kohl and East German Prime Minister Lothar de Maiziere on Tuesday named July 2 as the day for economic and social union of the two Germanys, a West German spokesman said. 
Union in those areas will bring the divided nation a long way toward full unification after more than four decades of separation following the horror of the Nazi dictatorship and defeat in World War II. 
The issue of political union, or holding an election to form a single government, remains to be worked out. 
Secretary of State James Baker and Soviet Foreign Min­ister Eduard Shevardnadze, joined by their colleagues from Britain, France and the two German states, are scheduled to meet in Bonn on May 5. 
There, they will try to resolve difficult international aspects of unification, including Ger­many's future military stance. 
While early July has fre­quently been mentioned as a goal for economic, monetary and social union -meaning the coordination of social benefits. such as unemployment and old age pensions -Tuesday's statement was the first confir­mation of a specific target date. 
Delegations from both Ger­manys are to meet in East Ber­lin on Wednesday to negotiate over how to best introduce the powerhouse West German mark into East Germany's bat­tered economy. 
The basis of the talks will be Bonn's proposal for monetary union, which catls for a basic 1­1 exchange rate of East Ger­man marks for West German marks for wages, salaries and pensions in East Germany. 
The announcements, made by West German government spokesman Dieter Vogel, fol­lowed three hours of private talks between Kohl and de Maiziere. De Maiziere was visit­ing Bonn for the first time as East Germany's prime minister. 
Vogel said Kohl and de Maiziere spoke in a friendly atmosphere. 
de Maiziere, talking to re­porters after the meeting, was asked whether he had accepted the West German government's latest proposal for monetary union. 
"There was nothing for me to accept. The chancellor pre­sented the government's sug­gestions, and we'll negotiate about them," de Maiziere said. 
He said hammering out a monetary union would require "many talks and negotiations." 
The West German monetary union proposal, announced Monday, represented a surpris­ing concession to East German demands. East Germans had feared that the exchange rate would be one West German mark for two East German marks -a rate that was ini­tially proposed by West Ger­many's central bank. 
The 1-1 rate will be limited, however, in the case of savings to $2,300 per person. This an­gered East Germans. 

Keep it up! 
Happy 
19th, 
guys/ 
From, 
UNO WHO 



Meet your new national commander 

Wednesday, April 25, 1990 The Observer page-5 
Bush orders medical aid sent to Nicaragua 
WASIIINGTON (AP)-Presi­dent Bush will invoke emer­gency authority to send $2.6 million in medical aid to Nicaragua in time for the pres­idential inauguration Wednes­day of Violeta Chamorro, con­gressional and administration sources said. 
The move was timed to give Vice President Dan Quayle the chance to deliver good news whnn hn represents Bush at the swearing-in ceremony in Managua, the sources said. Quayle also will report progress toward sending previ­ously promised food and other aid for the new government, the sources said. 
Bush's request for $300 mil­lion to begin economic recovery in Nicaragua, part of an $870 million aid request that also in­cludes Panama, had been stalled on Capitol Hill by a dis­pute over unrelated legislation. That snarl was resolved late Tuesday, but it remained un­likely the full aid package would be approved immediately. 
Failure to approve the full aid package by Chamorro's inau­guration should not be seen as an embarrassment, said House Speaker Thomas Foley, D· Wash. 
"It is a matter of procedures here," he told reporters. "We have procedures that obviously have to go forward, arltl I think eventually that aid package will be voted." 
The administration aid re­quest for Nicaragua is designed to help that country -now among the poorest in the hemi­sphere -recover from a decade of civil war and U.S. trade sanctions. It includes money to meet immediate needs for planting of crops and for fuel. · 
Officials of the new govern­ment acknowledge they face a thorny challenge in meeting the expectations of the electorate for a better standard of living. 
Chamorro was elected over­whelmingly in February elec­tions to replace President Daniel Ortega of the leftist Sandinista party. Her coalition was supported by the United States. 
The medical assistance would be the first direct U.S. aid to the Central American country in nine years, since President Rea­gan cut off aid shortly after taking office in 1981. 
Bush is seeking $300 million as a first installment of aid for the country, along with $500 million for Panama. But the aid package, a version of which has been passed by the House, had been held up in the Senate by a dispute over child-care legisla­tion. 
The dispute was settled late Tuesday, and the Senate Ap­propriations Committee planned to meet on the Central America aid bill late in the day. Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, said he ex­pected the measure to be on the Senate noor Wednesday, but could not predict how long it would take to complete action. 
Bush made the urgency of the 
supplemental money bill the top 
item on his agenda when he met 
with congressional leaders at 
the White House on Tuesday. 

Summer 




TORAGE 
RESERVATION 
CALL Nowlss3-1959f 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX 2 Y2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 ·•GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 

At-' t-'noto 

Playing at the real thing 
Children in the Peruvian port city of El Callao play war games with toys while masked anti-terrorist troops of the Peruvian Navy carry their submachine guns at the ready during an anti-guerilla sweep Monday through the streets of the city. A 1 0-year insurgency sparked by the Maoist ShininQ Path 
guerillas cost the lives of 18,000 Peruvians. 
"a relatively recent and unex­amined use of the phrase." It

Bishops 
has traditionally been used to continued from page 1 mean "in the person of Christ" 
in reference to the function of 
the term means "in the presence priests. This different transla­
of Christ." He said that this is tion may provide a new per-
COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
Riverside North 
A r,\RT\t1ENTS 
'EL'E{jJI8{{& SP.9LCIO'US *1, 2 and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
1671 Riverside Drive @ CALL 233"2212 ·~ 

Grad. lunch noon -2 
Club Cup Nite ... Friday Lunch noon-2 Friday Nite -CLOSED staff reasons Sat : Live 
THE GROOVE 
spective  for  women  in  the  
Church.  
Untener  concluded  by  ex­ 

pressing a hope that we could conduct discussions on topies such as the role of women "in persona Christi." 
Chamorro 
continued from page 1 
ably assume the defense min­istry herself to avoid upsetting the UNO council and high eche­lons of the Sandinista People's Army. 
Chamorro's advisers have signed an agreement with the Sandinistas that would de­politicize the Sandinista army. On Monday the Sandinistas an­nounced that army officers were stepping down from party posts; that included Defense Minister Humberto Ortega, one of nine members of the Sandin­ista directorate. 
The possibility that that might allow Ortega, President Ortega's brother, to remain as army chief has aroused contro­versy in Chamorro's coalition. Chamorro's advisers have not denied that Ortega and other top army officers might stay on. 
Radio Corporacion, a pro­UNO radio station, broadcast a call-in show Tuesday with citi­zens saying "the electorate voted for a total change" and "all Sandinistas must go." 
Many of the thousands of armed Contras in the country­side also maintain that posi­tion, and say they will not dis­arm as agreed by June 10 un­less the army is purged. 
Another issue upsetting UNO's political council is La Prensa's leaked ne~s Monday about some of the future gov­ernment ministers. Most of those named are technocrats with no political party affilia­tion. 

page 6 The Observer Wednesday, April 25, 1990 
After seven years, Hubble is on its way 
Space shuttle Discovery launches 'window on the universe' into orbit 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) year stay in space. -Seven years late, the Hubble Discovery, trailing an arc of Space Telescope is where it be­white smoke into a brilliant longs: out of this world and in blue sky, carried the silver-col­search of others so distant that ored telescope to an orbit 380 they may have been formed at miles above Earth -higher by the beginning of time. 70 miles than any previous 
Less than five hours after it shuttle. There, the Hubble will rode into space aboard the stay to search for yet-unseen shuttle Discovery on Tuesday, wonders of creation with in­the $1.5 billion telescope sent struments that can look 14 bil­its first test radio signal. At the lion years backward in time. sign of life, applause and Each trip around the Earth cheers erupted at the Goddard was taking the Discovery crew Space Flight Center in Maryland 97.3 minutes, longer than on where astronomers monitored any previous shuttle flight be­their spacecraft. cause of the altitude. The view 
"As near as we can tell, ev­was different, too. erything looks perfect," said "I've got to tell you, I just astronaut Steve Hawley from made it up to the flight deck for the shuttle. Hawley's job on a first look out the window," Wednesday will be to drop the said mi§sion specialist Kathryn telescope overboard for a 15-Sullivan, who flew the shuttle once before, in 1984. "Three­thirty is a whole lot higher than 120 was," she said, referring to the altitude in nautical miles. "I don't know how much longer it takes you to get here, but every second of the wait is worth ev­ery second that you get." 
"Our window on the uni­verse!" NASA launch commen­tator George Diller exulted as the Discovery rose off its sea­side launch pad. 
"It's a beautiful day to have Hubble Space Telescope in orbit instead of here on Earth like it's been for so many years," said NASA administrator Richard Truly. "Hubble's in its element and I'm delighted." 
The telescope was supposed to be launched in 1983, but technical problems and the Challenger accident delayed its deployment. It suffered a fur­ther delay two weeks ago when the countdown was stopped at the four-minutes-to-go point because of a faulty hydraulic unit on the shuttle. 

While it remained on Earth, the telescope cost $7 million a month to exercise and keep in readiness. In its first day in space, that checkout and test­ing continued remotely under control of the Goddard center. 
On hand to watch the Discov­ery launching was a contingent of scientists who have hailed the Hubble as the greatest ad­vance in astronomy since Galileo raised a small telescope 
to his eyes nearly 400 years ago. 
Truly referred to the early­day astronomer when he was asked about the long delays in getting the telescope to its working station. 
"Somebody the other day said, 'Who remembers the day that Galileo picked up his tele­scope to look at the stars?"' said Truly, a former shuttle as­tronaut. "It doesn't matter what day we launch Hubble, it matters that we do it right." 
The telescope is 43 feet long and 14 feet in diameter, about the size of a railroad tank car. When it flies free, it will receive electrical power for its six sci­entific instruments from two wing-like solar arrays that ex­tend outward on each side. 
It is named after the late as­tronomer Edwin Hubble, who theorized that the universe was expanding and that the farther away a galaxy is, the faster it is traveling. That gave support to the theory that a massive ex­plosion -the Big Bang -cre­ated the universe 10 to 20 bil­lion years ago. 
The Hubble is expected to help provide the answer to two 
The telescope has two mir­rors, one 94.5 inches in diame­ter, the other 12 inches. Two of the instruments are cameras, two are spectrometers and one is a photometer. In addition, the fine pointing system acts as a sixth instrument by providing precise measurement of dis­tances. 
On Wednesday, Hawley is to grapple the 12 112-ton tele­scope with the shuttle's me­chanical arm, lift it out of the cargo bay, point it, and -after a long checkout -drop it overboard to orbit on its own. 
In the cargo bay, the tele­scope receives electrical power from the shuttle. But the juice is cut when the instrument is lifted out and it will depend on internal batteries until the solar panels are extended to receive light from the sun. 
Should the solar panels not deploy, mission specialists Sul­livan and Bruce McCandless will be standing by, partially dressed in space suits, ready to go into the open cargo bay to unfurl the arrays manually. 
Discovery's launch was not without its problems. 
With 31 seconds left in the countdown, the computer that runs the final moments before liftoff refused to close a fuel valve and stopped the launch process. The problem was overcome and the shuttle lifted off at 8:34 a.m. EDT, about three minutes late. 




In conjunction with National 
Volunteer Week, April22-28, the 
Legal Services Program of Northern 
Indiana wishes to recognize and 
thank all ofthe Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's students who have so 
generously volunteered their time to 
our agency this past year. 
Knight Anderson Elizabeth Hwang Scott Baker Matthew Johnson Carolyn Boering Martha Judge Wendy Dillon Barbara Martin Giovanni Di Censo Ann Marie Piscione 
AP Photo 

Becky Fister Sean Rohen 
Gary Francesconi Kathyrn Snell 
Holding a miniature model of a space shuttle, Mamorv Mohri flashes a smile during a press conference Colleen Graham David Steigerwald 
in Tokyo Tuesday. Mohri, 42, was selected from among three candidates as the first Japanese 
·Janet Herold Peter Tarsney 
astronaut to board a U.S. space shuttle for a mission in June 1991. 
Elizabeth Holmes Jennifer Trucano 


AMERICAN 

NOTICE TO GRADUATES
CANCER 


As part of the graduation process, federal regulations require all students who
soaETV· 

have borrowed from the Stafford Loan Program (formerly Guaranteed Student Loan) and the Supplemental Loan for Students (SLS) to attend an exit interview before leaving the University. The exit interview will review your rights and responsibilities for repaying your loan(s), deferment options and loan consolidation benefits. 
For your convenience, we have scheduled ten exit interview sessions. Please plan on attending one. 
Tuesday, April 24th 2:00-2:30 P.M. LaFortune 2:45-3:15 P.M. Notre Dame Room 3:30-4:00 P.M. 
Wednesday, April 25th 7:00-7:30 P.M. LaFortune '7:45-8:15 P.M. Notre Dame Room 8:30-9:00 P.M. 
Thursday, April 26th 6:30-7:00 P.M. LaFortune 7:15-7:45 P.M. Notre Dame Room 8:00-8:30 P.M. 8:45-9:15 P.M. 
ro prepdre for the exit interview it will be necessary to know the name of your lender(s) and the total amount of your Stafford and SLS borrowing while at Notre Dame. If you need assistance gathering this information, contact the Financial Aid Office. Please allow one day for processing. 

Wednesday, April 25, 1990 
The Observer page 7 
ND professor, two alums win Engineering College awards 
received the Air Force Out­ucation, he was department
Special to The Observer 
standing Unit Award with "V" chairman and later dean of the 
Two Notre Dame alumni and device, the Federal Republic of graduate school at the Midwest a former dean of the College of Germany Army Cross of Honor College of Engineering. He has Engineering have been named in Gold, and the Republic of also coached youth football and as recipients of the College's Vietnam Armed Forces Honor baseball and served on the local 1990 Honor Awards. Medal. school board. 
llonornd arn Josnph Ahearn, llis service to his profession .Joseph P. Hogan earned a major gnnnral in the U.S. Air as a registered professional bachelor's degree from Wash­Forcn; Hobert llenry, founding engineer, including his out­ington University, a master's mnmbnr of Fauskn and Associ­standing military engineering degree from the University of atns. a consulting lirm to the contribution, was recognized by Missouri and doctorate from nuelnar nnorgy industry; and the Society of American Mili­the University of Wisconsin, all .losnph llogan. dnan nmeritus. tary Engineers when they in electrical engineering . 
Ahnarn is rncognized for his awarded him their Newman As dean of the colleges of outstanding and successful Medal in 1984. Engineering at the University of profnssional carnnr since grad­Hobert Henry, said Michael, Missouri-Columbia and at the uation in 195H with a bache­is being honored for his out­University of Notre Dame, he lor's dngrne in civil engineering, standing and successful profes­was instrumental in developing according to Anthony Michel, sional career following his educational engineering pro­MeCloskny dean of the College. earning three Notre Dame de­grams, Michael said. His insight lin also holds a master's degree grees: a bachelor's degree, into the national issues facing in nngineming administration master's degree and a doctor­the engineering education from Syraeusn University and ate, all in mechanical engineer­community was recognized eompletnd the Industrial Col­ing. when he was elected in 1982-83 legn of Armed Forces. Henry's technical accom­president of the American Soci­
Following graduation from plishments included service as a ety for Engineering Education. Notre Damn, Ahearn was heat transfer and fluid mechan­Putting to use his special per­commissioned as a second lieu­ics specialist in the nuclear en­spective and analytical evalua­tenant in the U.S. Air Force ergy field at Argonne National tion expertise, Hogan was a through the Hes11rve Officer Laboratories and then working consultant to the states of Training Corps. Because of his as a founding member of Florida and Massachusetts and civil engineering training, he Fauske and Associates. with the National Engineering began as a engineer and pro­Having made major contribu­University of Lima, Peru. He grammer with the Strategic Air tions to the nuclear engineering was called in as an expert wit­Command at Vandenberg Air field through the publication of ness in the areas of patents and Force Base in California. more than 75 technical journal products liability because of 
In later years he was giving articles and dozens of reports, this unusual ability to assess international civil engineering he also has contributed to the engineering accomplishments. assignments in Labrador, West production of several scientific More than a score of electrical Germany, and Vietnam. In 1988 films and the development of power utilities, both domestic he was promoted to major gen­computer codes used in the and foreign, have sought his eral and received his current domestic and foreign nuclear application of sound engineer­assignment as deputy director industry to analyze the poten­ing principles to help their de­of engineering and services in tial response of reactors during velopment and growth. 
U.S. Air Force headquarters' severe accidents. Besides receiving the special Oflice of the Deputy Chief of Because of his expertise presidential award from Notre Staff for Logistics and Engi­Henry served as an industry Dame president Theodore lies­neering, which is based in representative in the U.S. dele­burgh in 1981, Hogan has been Washington, D.C. gation to IAENVienna to evalu­awarded the University of Mis­
The major general's military ate the Russian interpretation souri's Honor Award, the decorations and awards include of the Chernobyl Unit 4 acci­Alumni Achievement Award by the Distinguished Service dent. Washington University, and the Medal, the Bronze Star Medal, Henry was the 1985 recipient 1981 Indiana Engineer of the the Defense Meritorious Service of the "Tommy" Thompson Year Award. He has served on Medal. the Meritorious Service Award of the American Nuclear eh Board of Directors of the St. Medal with three oak leaf clus­Society, the highest honor in Joseph County United Way, and ters, and the Air Force Com­the field of nuclear reactor on several state and local advi­mendation Medal. lie also has safety. Committed to higher ed-sory boards. 
Focus On America's Future 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
""' Support the 
~ ~J~DECQtQ~[!l~ 
-

RICK KELLEY 
UPS on campus UPS on campus UPS on campus MAKE IT EASY ON YOURSELF SHIPPING AVAILABLE ON CAMPUS 
UPS SERVICE DAIL V "'oo THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
~~'C,~t\C'C. LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE 1!J. 01:'~:-$0.e ~S\)~~ CALL 239-6714 °.-t~~4C ~ We ship computers, W.P. & monitors 'IJ"'It4~ 
WE TAPE!  WE LABEL!  WE SHIP!  
Not an agent of UPS  
UPS on campus  UPS on campus  UPS on campus  


AP Photo 
AIDS marchers 

A group of AIDS activists clash with Chicago police Monday dur­ing a demonstration. Hundreds of protesters from ACT UP, a na­tional AIDS advocacy group, marched through Chicago to call at­tention to what they say is inadequate health care coverage by insurance companies for AIDS victims. 
Students try to cancel speech by Mrs. Bush 
WELLESLEY, Mass. (AP) -quil college campus, nestled in Some Wellesley College students a corner of this posh Boston have inadvertently hit a femi­suburb, where the cost of tu­nist sore spot by protesting ition, room and board runs to Barbara Bush's selection as about $18,000 a year. commencement speaker. Students involved with the pe­
The students gained headlines tition have become a little pub­by circulating a petition saying licity shy in the wake of the "to honor Barbara Bush as a criticism, according to the se­commencement speaker is to nior class dean. honor a woman who has gained In another Globe article, recognition through the Suzanne Gordon, a freelance achievements of her husband, writer and feminist who has a which contradicts what we have book due out in January called been taught over our years at "Prisoner of Men's Dreams," Wellesley." laid out her argument against 
The petition was signed by the students. 150 of the 2,200 students at the Gordon wrote that the peti­elite women's school. tion "made me mad enough, 
But defense of the first lady even as a long-time feminist, to percolated slowly and then speak out against what has be­poured forth, even from some come an increasingly popular of the most liberal corners of rendition of feminist thinking." the Boston area. "What the Wellesley 
"What seems to have hap­protesters have inadvertently pened here is that the feminist revealed is how much the origi­standards of the '90s are being nal goals of the women's 
applied to a woman who ma­movement have been distorted tured in another era," wrote by the male-clone careerism of Boston Globe columnist David today's 'dress for success' fem­Nyhan, who is no Bush fan. inists," she said. "Barbara Bush is a woman of Lorraine Garnntt Ward, dean exemplary values, vast charm for the 600-member Class of and unrivaled popularity, to list 1990, defended the petitioners, those traits in descending although she pointed out they order.'' do not represent a majority of 
The flap has stirred the tran-senior class. 
Happy Birthday, Jack Brogan 22 and ready for the REAL world! 
Love, 
Mom, 
Dad, 
Mike 


,.......----------~~-----------------------~~-------~-­
p!A88 The Observer Wednesday, April 25, 1990 
RIC-_ 
ERIC~
RO 
CATHOLIC EUC-_~_............._ST 
WEDNESDAY 
April 25, 1990 
7:00pm 
Stepan Center University of Notre Dame 
ame Voices of Faith Gospel Choir congregation in song. 
practice the music! 
II be taken for the Sr. Thea Bowman Foundation. 


THURSDAY 

April 26, 1990 
7:30pm 
Grace Hall University of Notre Dame A Panel Discussion on the Role of Diversity in the Setting of Roman Catholic Eucharist 
All are invited and welcome! 
Notre Dame Multi-Cultural Executive Council Notre Dame Office of Campus MinistrySponsored by: 
Sister Thea Bowman Foundation for the Education of Black Catholic College Students 
-~~-~-~~-------~-----,---.. 
Wednesday, April 25, 1990 The Observer page 9 
~~ ~ 

Border guards sent to Lithuania, Bush objects to idea of sanctions 

MOSCOW (AP) -The Kremlin reinforced KGB border guards in Lithuania on Tuesday, and Lithuania's president accused the United States of selling out his rebellious Baltic republic in its confrontation with the So­viet government. 
The Soviet news agency Tass reported a gunfire attack Mon­day night on a Soviet army bar­racks in Vilnius, Lithuania's capital, but said no one was hurt. 
President Bush said in Wash­ington he will not impose sanc­tions on the Soviet Union at this time over its crackdown on Lithuania. He said he feared sanctions might prompt Moscow "to take action that would set back the whole case of freedom around the world." 
The Soviets have cut off oil. drastically curtailed natural gas and curbed other supplies to Lithuania in trying to force the republic to halt its six­week-old drive for indepen­dence. 
Earlier, Soviet Foreign Min­istry spokesman Vadim Perfiliev warned that U.S. sanctions could have "negative conse­quences." 
Perfiliev did not state directly that the Soviet Union might re­taliate but said "any actions taken which could pull apart the sides of the argument of course could have negative con­sequences, not only for the So­viet Union but for the interna­tional situation." 
After Bush's announcement, President Vytautas Landsbergis of Lithuania issued an angry statement from Vilnius. 
"Can the freedom of one 
STUDENTS SAVE 10% 
AND LOfS OF TIME­Let us pack and ship your Divided highway 
group of people be sold for the freedom of another? What then is the idea of freedom itself?" he said. 
"This is another Munich." 

He was referring to the 1938 Munich Pact, in which France and Britain allowed Nazi Ger­many to take control of Czechoslovakia. The treaty was widely viewed as caving in to Adolf Hitler. The pact became a symbol of appeasement. 
Tass and Soviet TV's nightly newscast reported Bush's an­nouncement. 
Tass also quoted Soviet army Maj. Alexei Kirichcnko as say­ing a shot was fired at an open window at about 10 p.m. when soldiers were already inside the barracks. It said the bullet smashed a window on the op­posite wall, and that ballistics experts believe a combat weapon, and not a hunting rifle, was used. 
The agency also reported from Vilnius that the Lithua­nian parliament on Tuesday set up a commission to "prepare anti-blockade measures" and named Prime Minister Kaz­imiera Prunskiene as commis­sion chief. 
President Mikhail Gorbachev's advisers refused on Tuesday to receive a five-member Lithua­nian delegation sent to Moscow to discuss the plight of the re­public after a week of enduring the Kremlin economic blockade. 
Lithuania hopes to make up for some of the supplies Moscow has cut with imports from abroad. But the KGB's announcement that it was adding personnel and equip­ment to guard the republic's 
~...-~ 
.,,~ 
--..., 
\,, 
border appeared designed as a warning against such a step. 
Lt. Anatoly Parakhin of the KGB, whose forces are respon­sible for Soviet borders, did not specify in a Moscow brinfing what the secret police were looking for, but indicated weapons were on the list. 
"Control has been established over possible contacts between Soviet and foreign ships in ter­ritorial waters and within the borders of thn economic zone of the U.S.S.H. to avert the transfer of weapons and am­munition to Lithuania," Tass quoted Parakhin as saying. 
"The movement through the border of all cargo and nwans of transportation is being most carefully controlled. 
"All coastal fishing ships, without exception, arc being in­spected by border dntails." 
lie said the stepped-up con­trol was justified by an April 12 incident in which 240,000 rounds of hunting ammunition were found aboard the Soviet ship Marat Kozlov, Tass said. It was sailing to Lithuania from West Germany. 
The increased border patrols were in linn with a March 21 Kremlin statement calling for incrnased security on the Lithuanian section of the Soviet border. 
Moscow began tightening its economic vise last week after Lithuania refused to rescind laws bolstering its March 11 declaration of independence. 
Prunskiene returned to Moscow from Scandinavia on Monday on a trip to seek for­eign support, especially oil. 
AP Photo 


belongings back home for the Lava from the Kilauea Volcano blocks Kalapana Avenue Monday after advancing across the road dur­summer, or to wherever your ing the night in the Kalapana Gardens Subdivision in Kalapana, Hawaii. Since the eruption began in 1983, lava from the volcano has destroyed 90 homes. 
new career leads vou! 
NOTHING IS TOO LARGE OR TOO SMALL! 
==8DXE5/ill5== 
SHIPPING + PACKING + CRATING 
MOVING & S1DHAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SEHVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
PLEASE PR£SENT T1iiS COUPON AT ntE T1UE OF 
PURCHASE OR SHIPPING 
277-5555 
Between T.J. Maxx and Venture 
5818 GRAPE RD • INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA • MISHAWAKA 
~, 
tj«utLud 
etH& 9Ut414/ 
~~~, ~Z>elt 
+ 
~~ 
Thanks to you... it works ... for 
ALL OFUS 
Unitedway
• 

Viewpoint
page 10 Wednesday, April 25, 1990 
-Ihe Obsener___ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 

Death sentence is an unjustifiable punishment 
Capital punishment can not be justified by any means. In order to understand this, one must examine why proponents of such punishment find it to be of value. Almost half of supporters for the death penalty base their advocacy for the merciless slaughter of American citizens on the "an eye for an eye ... " theory of justice. The Lord told us that "Vengeance is mine" (Romans} By implementing such a vengeful and 11Teversible form of punishment in our justice system we are taking God's place and subsequently rejecting His sovereignty. 
Rationalizing that capital punishment effectively functions as a deterrent to capital crimes is another faulty argument. There is no evidence to support this claim. In fact, studies in California may offer evidence that the rate of murders actually tends to increase during the days directly preceding an execution. 
Also, few murders are actually premeditated, therefore, the offenders do not have time to consider the consequences of their actions. Even those who plan their crimes do so in a manner to avoid being caught. Finally, it is neither clear nor proven that the death penalty poses a greater threat to potential capital offenders than life imprisonment. 
Another fallacy concerning the issue involves cost. Despite popular belief, the cost of a capital trial alone would be more than double that of life imprisonment. 
The final and most important argument against the death penalty is its irreversibility. Even if one could justify the acceptability of capital punishment, it is important to consider that our legal system is not infallible. Are we really willing to risk the death of even one innocent man? It has happened in the past and will happen again. An executed man can never benefit from new evidence that may surface. What justification could .ev.er be given to grieving friends and family members? 
It is obviously conceded that criminals must be pun­ished, but as Christians we must bear in mind that in punishment we must maintain some respect and dignity for human life. Punishment of the offender and pro­tection for society are both served by life imprisonment. We must not resort to undermining God's plan in such a manner that we become no better than the accused and our Christian faith subsequently becomes worthless. 
DOONESBURY 
Y&AH, I KNOW ONE,
~,JOANte... OFCOUR5t 
BUT I CAN'T... CAN'T
I<J.IOWANY NOT. lXJ YCXP. 
f?EI'IIEMlJf,R IT. .. 1/t1
Neu!AIIJS \ 
50 7/R£1) 7HE5E PAYS,
JOKeS? 
JOANJe, 50... veRY. .. ~.. TIR£1?. .. 
Death penalty serves as a strong deterrent to murder 
By Christopher Longeway 

Should capital punishment be abolished? Those who favor abolition contend that we have no right to decide to take the life of another person no mat­ter how much this person has violated the rules of society. In support of their position, they present other arguments to persuade the public that the death penalty is neither ef­fective nor useful. Capital pun­ishment, however, does remain effective and useful in today's society. 
First, it is important to real­ize that any use of capital pun­ishment is to be limited to the most flagrant and malicious actions. It is possible to de­termine the mental state of the convict. We would love to be­lieve that we live in a world where any human who could conceive and premeditate the murder of another human could be diagnosed as mentally 
ill. Unfortunately, that is not always the case. The system does not choose to sentence the mentally ill to death. It is also possible to determine the de­gree of certainty behind a con­viction. Each deliberation over the death penalty should be case specific. The use of the death penalty, therefore, should be very limited. 
Those who are against capital punishment often argue that the death penalty is a punish­ment that is distributed unequally and, therefore, un­fairly. This argument is a futile one at best. To say that pun­ishments are distributed un­evenly does not imply that a particular punishment should be done away with. They say that since not all murderers are put to death, none of them should be. According to this same logic, because there are many murderers who are never caught or imprisoned, none of them should be. 
The abolitionists also argue that the majority of capital crimes are committed irra­tionally and, therefore, the threat of capital punishment is not an effective deterrence. This argument fails for a few reasons. First, the courts have traditionally imposed lighter sentences on those offenses that have been committed irra­tionally or have been "crimes of passion." Secondly, even if cap­ital punishment only deters ra­tional people from committing murder, then it is still effective. Also, deterrence is irrelevant to 
many of those who oppose ken because the possibility of capital punishment. Many of being caught is low and the them would still oppose the punishment is light. When peo­death penalty regardless of ef­ple speed they choose to pay the fectiveness as a deterrent. consequences if they are caught. If, however, the penalty 
Capital punishment is an ef­for speeding happened to be fective deterrence for rational death, I feel that speeding people. One of the greatest would be eliminated. Obviously fears of humans is the fear of for speeding, any jail sentence death. Any rational person would probably effectively deter avoids doing things that will speeding. However, the pun­result in his own death. The ishment must much higher to exception here is unless this effectively deter murder. If a person believes he will get away person realizes that the conse­with it. This brings us to why a quence that he faces if he is person commits a murder. A caught taking the life of an­rational person would through other is death, he is less likely a cost/benefit analysis. When to commit that murder and the decision to murder is made, face that consequence. The this person feels that the bene­choice that person makes is di­fits of murdering are greater rectly proportional to the con­than the costs. The benefits sequences he will face. could be money, revenge, love, Our entire penal system is etc.... The costs are the proba­based on punishing people in bility of getting caught multi­proportion to the crime they plied by the punishment this commit. That is one reason person would receive. The that death is not the penalty for higher these costs the less likely speeding. It is obvious that not that the benefits will outweigh all crimes can be punished them. It seems imperative that specifically according to their these costs are raised as high offense. We cannot rob rob­as possible to protect the inno­bers, or rape rapists. We can, cent. The highest possible cost however, estimate a sentence is to give one's life and that is that is concurrent with the why capital punishment will crime. The deliberate action of remain an effective deterrence taking the life of an innocent for rational people. victim is, however, the ultimate 
There are also reasons that offense that one person could 
cause life imprisonment to be commit. In conformity with the 
ineffective. First, people who rest of the penal system, the 
are prisoners for life have no ultimate crime should deserve 
regard for the lives of others the ultimate punishment. 
around them. The lives of Placing a man in prison, feeding 
other prisoners and guards are him, and allowing him to live 
placed in jeopardy. Since they out his years interacting with 
already are serving the maxi­others, is not even close to the 
mum sentence, there is no de­murder he committed. If 
terence to keep these people murderers gave their victims a 
from killing others. What are choice between life imprison­
the law enforcers going to do, ment and death, which do you 
give them another life sentence? think they would choose? Life 
Also, there is the possibility imprisonment is in no way a 
that these convicted murderers punishment that fits the crime. 
could escape. If a person is Capital punishment is effec­
sentenced to spend his life in tive and useful. It is an effec­
prison, he has plenty of time tive deterrence for rational 
and no deterrence to attempt to people. Every murder does not 
escape. A successful escape necessitate the penalty of death 
would place a potentially dan­nor has that been proposed. 
gerous murderer back on the There are, however, case spe­
streets with the innocent peo­cific situations that do call for 
ple. the use of capital punishment. 
It is unfortunate that we must 
When a person chooses to use the fear of punishment to 
commit a murder he makes a deter one man from taking the 
choice. Everybody knows that life of another. The only way to 
the maximum penalty for mur­make that deterrence effective 
der, although it varies by state, is to make the punishment 
is death. When a person de­something that terrifies us all 
cides to murder another, he -death. 
decides to suffer the conse­
quences if he is caught. The Christopher Longeway is a 
speed limits are habitually bro-senior marketing major. 
Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety of issues. If you have something to say, bring your written thoughts to the Observer offices located on the third floor of LaFortune, or send them to: Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
NAIT,I60TfTI 
RA881/A/AtKS IN70 ANAJ/?S atNIC... 
HeARD 
I 
IT.~ 
'Happiness is not a reward -it is a consequence. Suffering is not a punishment-it is a result.' 
Robert Green Ingersoll 
-~-----~--~~-~---------­
Viewpoint
Wednesday, April 25, 1990 page 11 
Capital punishment unjustly perpetuates murder 
support criminals for life in 
costly institutions? Unlike de­
By Professor terrence, the relative cost of
Fernand Dutile executing can be quantified. 
The available studies have 
found executions vastly more 
The death penalty confronts expensive than life imprison­Americans with a crucial ques­ment. These costs relate not tion of policy and conscience: only to the maintenance of sep­Should the State kill, too? arate and secure death rows, Many. frustrated by the horror but also to the inherently more of modern-day crime, argue complex procedures that will that the death p1~nally fulfills always characterize the evalua­an important need. Let's look tion of death cases both at the at the bases for their argu­trial level and in subsequent ment. appeals. (Remember that the 
First, we are told, the death costs of imposing the death pr.nalty deters. Indeed, occa­penalty include not only those sional attempts to isolate the incident to cases yielding an ex­impact of the death penalty ecution, but also the extra ex­have oecurred. Nonetheless. no pense connected with capital persuasive evidence substanti­cases that, for whatever rea­ates the daim that the death son, do not actually result in penalty presents any signifieant execution). As the studies indi­deterrence to murder, the sole cate, therefore. increasing the crime now resulting in the number of executions will not death p1mally in this country. make them cheaper than life Indeed, a global survey of the imprisonment. Even if this issue death pnnally conducted by the of life and death should turn on United Nations in 1988 con­merely economic factors, then, eluded that "the evidence as a the death penalty represents a whole gives no positive support bad deal. to the detnrrence hypothesis." A common argument nowa­
The incredible number of days asserts that the doctrine variables that possibly of retribution, which holds that condition human conduct wrongdoers deserve punish­makes highly unlikely any ment proportional to their conclusive proof regarding crimes, warrants imposition of deterrence. Because the the death penalty. The argu­presumption should always be ment assumes, however, that against killing, the burden of only an execution fulfills the re­proof on this issue should fall tributive objective in murder on those supporting the cases. Why does not life im­penalty, not on those opposing prisonment without possibility it. If deterrence constitutes the of parole appropriately serve rationale for the death penalty, the retributive function? shouldn't we, before Certainly, the argument isn't that case with others. lence should make us wary of major countries that still regu­implementing this awesome that the State must do to the In 1972, the United States judging, lest we be judged. As larly execute are China, South power, be reasonably sure it defendant the same thing that Supreme Court found that the someone once said, "I know Africa, Iran and the Soviet works? the defendant did to the victim. penalty was applied so freak­that he fell, but I don't know Union. The company we keep in 
Indeed, solid expert evalua­This "eye for an eye" approach ishly that it violated the cruel what he wrestled." The argu­this matter should give us tion demonstrates that many would justify in various cases and unusual punishment clause ment that the death penalty ad­pause. people prone to violent crime-­State torture and beatings well of the Constitution. Despite new dresses personal culpability will "Thou shalt not kill." This we do not know how many-­beyond what any civilized soci­statutes, the application re­ring truer when the population injunction, at the least, makes cannot be deterred by any sanc­ety and, incidentally, our mains freakish. Indeed, in­on death row more nearly re­immoral any killing unless, like tion provided by law. Certain Constitution would tolerate. cluded within the highly erratic flects a cross-section of in self defense, it is necessary. personality types, for complex Moreover, retribution re­application are undeniable fac­Americans. Since incapacitation through psychological reasons quires an assessment of the de­tors of racial and class Of course, any mistake result­life imprisonment, without pos­grounded in both genetics and fendant's culpability. How do discrimination. ing in the death penalty is irre­sibility of parole, satisfies the environment, respond to no we assess culpability in a way The geography of execution is versible. This obvious point be­need to protect society (and, in motivation beyond almost im­justifying the relatively minis­also instructive. From 1977 to comes chilling in light of a re­the bargain, retributive ends as mediate gratification. cule number of cases receiving 1988, four states (Texas, cent study documenting 350 in­well), the barbarity of homi­Moreover, many murderers feel the death penalty? Even during Florida, Georgia and stances of innocent defendants cides, committed through the they will not be caught or, in the death penalty's heyday, the Louisiana), representing only being convicted of potentially death penalty, demeans and any event. are emotionally United States never executed sixteen percent of our popula­capital offenses in the corrupts us all. Let us hope overwhelmed and unable to more than 199 people in one tion, carried out seventy-five Twentieth Century. (Imagine that, as one global analysis re­make any logical assessment of year. Yet, in 1985, for example, percent of all executions in the the mistakes that cannot be cently concluded, abolition of risk. After all, a dispassionate there were 18,980 murders in United States. documented!) the death penalty inevitably re­cost-benefit analysis would al­the United States. Can anyone Indeed, among the questions Although what other nations sults from civilization's evolving ways conclude against murder, really believe that our death of fact about which, history do does not necessarily deter­respect for human rights, and even in a jurisdiction imposing penalty process singles out in shows, juries can be wrong, mine the wisdom of our con­that, therefore, the death "only" life imprisonment. In any any way approaching coherence culpability presents an espe­duct, it is helpful to note, as did penalty in America constitutes event, isn't it strange for the the most culpable defendants? cially troubling one. How does the Los Angelos Times recently, a tragic aberration in that State to kill in an attempt to The sentencing jury, for exam­one make any reasonably accu­that "no other Western democ­long-range trend. teach us not to'! ple, whether advisory or final, rate assessment of culpability racy maintains an active death 
Others argue that the death examines only the case actually warranting death? Background sentence.... " Except for the Fernand N. Dutile is penalty is economical. Why before it. Accordingly, the jury factors of poverty, mental ill­United States, according to Professor of Law and Associate should we, the argument goes, has no real ability to compare ness, child abuse or other vio-Amnesty International, the only Dean in the Law School. 

LETTERS 
Support of execution requires explanation 
Dear liditor: at many executions. He then necessity in our society." Why ginning of the article. they are--short sighted opin­In the Tuesday, April 17 edi­begins his justification of the ­
does O'Brien believe this? The problem of the death ions. 
tion of the Observer, John death penalty through criticism I cannot sufficiently agree penalty is a complex and dis­I believe that O'Brien has O'Brien wrote. "Alan Matheney of those people who rejoice in with O'Brien or disagree with turbing topic. It is intimately carefully thought out his posi­should be sent1mced to death. I these executions. The people he him because he has given read­connected to what we under­tion on the death penalty and am not proud of the fact that targets are those who cheered ers nothing to contemplate. I stand as the sanctity of human its importance in society, and he should be executed, for I be­at Ted Bundy's executions as can see little difference in the life. Somehow our system rein­someday I would like to read lieve in the sanctity of human well as the ex-governor of stance of Mark White and John forces the undeniable sanctity about it in his column. But I do 
not want to read a descriptionlife. But that includes Lisa Texas Mark White. O'Brien because O'Brien avoids of life through death. Truly, it 
Bianco's life, too." telling us how he arrived at his deserves consideration by every of violent death as a substitute The sole reason for his conclusion. In the last few citizen, especially Christians. for a discussion of the problem. 
This is the condusion O'Brien condemnation of these people is paragraphs, he mentions Alan If you believe in something then arrived at in his death penalty their pride in the death penalty. Matheney, the man so irrecon­I will simply ask that when preach it to us. Others may not article. How he reached this But O'Brien is not proud of the cilably evil that we should be anyone addresses these issues agree with you, but "Pecca conclusion confuses me. The death penalty, just expediently cautiously satisfied at his legal the emphasis is on the act and Fortiter" and give thinking first two paragraphs provide a satisfied. O'Brien wrote, killing. The length of script de­its morality, or lack thereof. If people a chance to choose. ­graphic description of a violent "Taking of a human life should voted to Matheney, his offenses our student journalism leaders death, followed by two para­not be a source of pride for and attempts to rehabilitate cannot offer a reasonable de­Sean Scanlon graphs on the protestors and White. It's nothing to be proud him is shorter than the graphic fense of their beliefs, we should Flanner Hall 
April 18, 1990

concelebrators who are present of, but unfortunately it's a description of death at the be-accept their beliefs for what 
-
r 
---~-~-----------~--------~ -~---~-------­
-~------~­
Accent 
Wednesday, April 25, 1990
page 12 

An Tostal plays on with the innovative sounds of 


The band Phish will be playing at Fieldhouse Mall today at 4 p.m. This quartet's music selection covers a wide variety including jazz, R&B, funk, and calypso, and the majority of the pieces are their own work. 
every spare moment during the 
RICH PAGEN 

past five years playing together. 
accent writer 

They now live together in with it something completely This year's An Tostal brings 
Burlington practicing five to six new and exciting. Phish, a 
hours a day. Because of their determina­quartet based in Burlington, tion and long hours, their per­
Vermont, will be performing on Wednesday, April 25 at 4 p.m. 
formances are extremely tight at Fieldhouse Mall. 
and they demonstrate an excep­tional ability to improvise.
The four performers began playing together over five years 
The interesting lyrics toago, and have developed an Phish's songs are as much a"indescribable" sound. Their part of their personalities asrepertoire now consists of a the music itself. The lyrics arewide variety of musical styles 

-
seldom serious and are usuallyas diverse as jazz and R&B to bizarre in nature ("The tiresfunk and calypso. They have are the things on your car thatcovered songs from Duke make contact with the road").
Ellington to the Allman Broth­ers, although their perfor­mances consist mainly of their Many of the songs are linked 
own pieces. together by an epic written by Anastasio about an army 
They are rapidly becoming a colonel who travels through a household name in the North­doorway into a mystical world east, where their increasing called Gamehenge. The song popularity has resulted in suc­"Wilson" tells of a plot to cessful dates in a· number of overthrow the evil king of clubs, such as six consecutive Gamehenge. Another song, sell-outs in Boston's Paradise "ACJDC Bag," describes the evil Rock Club. During the spring, king's robot executioner. they have traveled through the Anastasio began writing Midwest and out to Colorado songs in the fourth grade. Two and will now stop in South of his oldest songs, "Golgi Ap­Bend to give ND a dosage of paratus" and "Markisupa Po­their unique brand of music. liceman" were written by Anas­
tasio when he was 12 years old. Phish is comprised of gui­tarist and principle song The wild originality of the writer, Trey Anastasio, Page lyrics and the magic of the mu­McConnell on keyboards, Mike sic result in a combination that 
Gordon on bass, and Jon has earned Phish much de­(Phish) Fishman on drums, served respect as a talented trombone, and vacuum cleaner. high energy band. Don't miss 
These four have spent almost them! 
Mode's 'Violator' and Church's 'Gold Afternoon Fix' 
much American airplay. Yet, Gore has also experimented Just as Heyday was an album the acoustic "Disappointment,"
and Martin Gore blend their 
with almost ten years and six in the realm of the guitar on dealing with the mood of the "Laughing," the upbeat
voices quite well in the slow anc 
original albums, two compila­many of the album's tracks. forest, and the main image of "Russian Autumn Heart," with
sad "Waiting For the Night."
tions, a live double-album and a Unlike other electronic bands Starfish was the city at night, Willson-Piper on vocals, and
Violator, with its Freudian 
concert movie under their belt, that use guitars, Gore utilizes Gold Afternoon Fix deals with "Transient," with Koppes on
broken flower on the cover, is 
they still sell out stadium them in unconventional ways, the mood of the factory, and of vocals.
now available in record stores,
crowds. With all this success, which blend with the overall the city by day. The music quite On the whole, Gold Afternoon
and is sure to please most 
one would think that the band's atmospheric structure of the effectively brings about the Fix is quite a satisfying work 
Mode fans, despite the awful 
new material for their seventh album. mood and imagery of the reality by an experienced band with a
12" remixes that predict the 
album would definitely lean to­Gore's world is obviously not of the city, rather than the unique mood and style. 
band's commerciality.

wards the commercial side. a happy one, with his recurring However, that assumption is themes of nihilism, guilt, de­only half right. bauchery, corruption of inno­The Church -Gold Afternoon 
Although their singles cence, importance of triviality, Fix-"Personal Jesus" and "Enjoy advantages of falsity, repres­
With their new release, Gold 
WVFI Top Ten 
the Silence" have a definite sion, and impurity. But the 
Afternoon Fix, The Church 
dance club sound, they still re­sound is still accessible and 
proves that they may be the 
tain many of the typical quali­sometimes, even danceable. 
mood-rock band of the nineties. 
1. Social Distortion·· Social Distortion
ties of songwriter/keyboardist Nothing is new on this album 
After success with their pre­
Martin Gore's style; spiritual in the way of the Mode's chord 
2. Eye-· Robyn Hitchcock
vious album, Starfish, and sev­
redemption through sexuality, progressions and harmonies, 
eral solo albums, the team of 
3. Violator--Depeche Mode
the blending of religious and although the band does use 
Steve Kilbey, Marty Willson­
sexual imagery, and words that some more conventional key­
4. Blue Sky Mining--Midnight Oil 
Piper, Peter Koppes and 
are meaningless in light of board and percussion sounds. 
Richard Ploog, have produced 
5. Blow-· Red Lorry, Yellow Lorry
physically expressed emotions. Album highlights from Violator 
another stylistically tight work 
While Gore has blatantly include the powerful "Sweetest 
6. Birds of Passage--Bel Canto
featuring the usual ingredients; 

moved the band's singles into Perfection," in which Gore 
Kilbey's low and casual vocal 
7. Bizarro··The Wedding Present
airplay and club play, he has takes lead vocals, along with 
style on even the upbeat songs, 
8. Umber--Bitch Magnet
reserved a more macabre tone interesting orchestral and gui­
-the guitar combination of the 
for the other songs, a pattern tar combinations. In addition 
harsher Willson-Piper and the 
9. This--Tilt·a·Whirl
started in their fourth album, "Halo," "The World in My 
more melodic Koppes, the per­
10. Thing of Beauty--Volcano Suns 
Some Great Reward which fea­Eyes," and "The Policy of 
sonal and imaginative lyrics, 
tured their first big American Truth," all feature catchy cho­
and the strong higMow back­
single, "People are People." ruses. Lead singer David Gahan ing vocals without harmonies. 
-
Wednesday, April 25, 1990 The Observer page 13 
-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day f(om 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
SENIOR FORMAL: Are those SUMMER RENTAL. House or DO YOU NEED A FLIGHT TO START YOUR NEW CAREER PETE'S BREWING COMPANY pictures you developed not yours? Rooms.Near campus.272·6306 PROV. R.I.?? monday, may 22, WITH A NEW CARl
\ NOTICES 
Maybe you or your date picked up best offer! call Kris x2735 We have special financing for LEADING CALIFORNIA BASED the wrong camera by accident on 2 BDRMS, TURTLE CR., SUBLET. employed graduates. SPECIALTY BREWER NOW SAT night. Please call #1765. 273-0601. APPLE liE COMPUTER WI Call: Gary Erb ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
EXPERT TYPING 
THANKS EXTENDED MEMORY, At: Gates Toyota FOR MIDWEST REGION 
$3/PG New 2 Bdrm., 2 Bath Condo. MONITOR, FAN, DISK DRIVE, 237-4999 MANAGER. SALARY 22·25K. 
291·3829 I'm lost!!! Please help me, my Available for 1990-1991. PROGRAMS, GAMES, & BONUS, CAR, BENEFITS, ETC. name is Sundance. I'm a white 6" Walk to campus. Call PRINTER FOR SALE. 
PHISH IS COMING!! RESPONSIBLE FOR MIDWEST TYPING term 
Teddy Bear with black eyes and Michelle at x4981. ALL FOR ONLY $700 WED. APRIL 25 SALES AND MARKETING 
papers/reports/letter/resumes. 
grey suede feet bottoms. Lost 4·8· CALL AMY 239-7308. PROGRAMS. BEVERAGE/SALES 
Pick up & delivery available. 277· 
90 in red east parking lot at NO. HOUSEMATES NEEDED: GOING HOME 1?1?1? EXPERIENCE PREFERRED. CALL 
5134 Cathy. 
My family misses me very much. Arco Iris, an experiment in AIR TICKET CHICAGO-DENVER. For great rental van rates call Tim MARK BOZZINI (415) 328·7383. My safe return would be greatly cooperative living, has one or LV. MAY 2, RET. MAY 12. at x1143 ASAP. 
UPS ON CAMPUS 
appreciated. Reward!! Call collect, two openings for this summer 239·7385 OR 272·6968. Tom or Gloria at 317·247-1096 and/or this fall. If you are open SUMMER OR FIT JOB: NO family SENIORS SENIORS 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER minded and interested in Off-Campus Furnit., Dorm Refridg. in Chicago area looking for Nanny Pick up your SENIOR FORMAL 239·6174 · LAFORTUNE LOST: Brown leather jacket. 0/C at inexpensive community living & Carpet 4 a Single for 1 8mo boy. Live in or out. Top Candid and Formal PICTURES 524 Cresent Street. Friday 4/20. close to campus, please call us at 271-5651 pay. Call (708) 433-1628. TOC'A Y from 12·5 in the DOOLEY WE TAPE! WE LABELl WE SHIP! 
Reward if found. Mike x4280. 232·3330. ROOM, LAFORTUNE 
$100 FREE INSURANCE 
Academic cap and gown with EQUAL RITES FOR WOMEN LOST: Brown leather jacket. 2 HOUSES, REDUCED RENT. doctoral hood. $50.00. 239-7405 See the future of the Catholic Call SAFEWALK for an escort Discounts Available 0/C at 524 Cresent Street. WASHERS & DRYERS, BURGLAR or 232-6415 Church: the ordination of Women. anywhere on campus. Friday 4/20. Reward if found. ALARMS, FULLY FURNISHED, 7:30pm-1:30am Sun-Th WORDPROCESSING 
Mike x4280. WILL RENT TO GROUP OR Enduro Motorcycle: '87 Suzuki WEDNESDAY NIGHT 7:30 7:30pm-2:00am Fri-Sat 
272·1837 
SP125cc. Mint Condition. Call LIBRARY AUD. LOST· VIVITAR CAMERA ON GLORE 232·1 776. Jim@ 277·9198 Panel Discussion on the Summer Vacation! THURS., 4/19 AT BRIDGET'S OR Ordination of Women INDIVIDUALS. CONTACT CHUCK 
$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! -
MCCORMICKS-if found please 3·4 bedroom house with 2 1986 VW GOLF, 4-DR See the Future of the Anyone in need of a roommate 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 
call Shannon @ 284-5229 full baths, washer/dryer & HATCHBACK, AIR, AM/FM Catholic Church in Chicago for the summer 
Corner of ND ave and Howard garage. Located safely across CASSETIE, 55,000 MI., AVAIL. call Bridget x 2770 233-2342 
the street from campus. MAY 19. $4000. 239-7385 OR EQUAL RITES FOR WOMEN: Ph. 234-7650 272-6968. Sign Petitions Today supporting I have one simple question, what's 
HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS WANTED the Ordination of Women. Petitions with all the goatee's on campus?
SUMMER? Jet there from 
AVAILABLE JUNE OR AUGUST, 4 FOR SALE: 1988 NISSAN on Campus
Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for BEDROOM HOUSE, PULSAR SE, 3-DOOR SPORTS Roni-Thanks for a great no more than $229. or from the NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE COMPLETELY FURNISHED. COUP, 5-SPEED, AIR, CASSETIE WATCH FOR DETAILS FOR PMS weekend. I hope the summer East Coast for no more than $160 any weekend-ext 1938 SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234-STEREO, EXCELLENT AND DICK HOLLIDAY AND THE only gets better. 
with AIRHITCH (A) (as reported in 9364. CONDITION, LEAVING BAMBOO GANGl! M.P 
NY Times. Let's Go! & Consumer RESPONSIBLE STUDENT 
COUNTRY, MUST SELL, $8600. 
Reports.) For info: AIR HITCH (A) LOOKING TO HOUSESIT THIS TURTLE CREEK SUBLET CALL 282-2140. BASS PLAYER SENIORS 212·864·2000. SUMMER. NON-SMOKER, NON· 
and SENIORS DRINKER. CALL KATHY 284· TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE FOR 
LEAD SINGER SENIORS EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 4245. 
THE SUMMER 
Needed for established campusMRS. COKER. 233-7009. 
CALL KEVIN,MIKE,OR JEFF 
TICKETS 
band-mostly classic rock· Are you planning on volunteering 10 Speed bike.272-6306 
X1644 experience and equipment next year?
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US! 
required-to begin playing Fall '90 MAIL BOXES ETC. WANTED!!!: 
STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? 
2-BDR. APT. AVAILABLE FOR I NEED GRAD TKTS call Rich x1475 Please sign up at the Senior UPS. Boxes, Shipping Supplies. Loft/bookshelves/couch/chair· I've 
$$DAVE P. 3270 Pete x1429 Class Office in Lafortune or at the SUBLEASING. CALL NOW!!! 284· On S.R. 23, just past ironwood. been bumming off people for too 
C.S.C. to participate in the 277·6245 long and now that I'll be in a single I 4070. 
ceremony during graduation
Help! My little old Italian 

need your help. If you have any of CONGRATULATIONS weekend.
SINGLE STUDIO APT. AT Grandma is coming for graduation! 
the above items and are willing to SHERI QUINN 
TURTLE CREEK FOR SUMMER. 
I need an extra ticket or I'll be out 
sell them call Chrissy x4026 The 1st (of many) HOME DEADLINE IS MAY 1.
UTILITIES INCLUDED. 284-5475 of the will! I will pay much bucks. 
THANKS! RUNS at Alumni Field, Mon.
I LOST/FOUND 
LEAVE MESSAGE. Cali X4238 and leave a message. 
4-23. You've earned this 

PRE-PROFESSIONAL SOCIETY ATIENTION ·GOVERNMENT one!! 
MEETING WED 4/25 6:30PMFurn. 2 & 4 bedrm. houses. GUS IS RICH!II

SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Luv, Your Roomies 
Lost: silver framed glasses 118 NIEUWLAND
Safe. Washer/dryer. Sand I need GRAD tickets and will pay. 
Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, (all9 of us) 
in black case, at Cartier ELECTIONS FOR NEXT YEAR'S
V-ball court. Bruce: 288-5653/234· Call me at 277-4162. 
Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1·
field or vicinity. Reward. OFFICERS TO BE HELD-ALL 
3831.
602·838-8885 EXT. A6262. Lizard,
Call Mike at x2082. ARE INVITED, WILL BE SHORT
I NEED GRAD TIX 
Discover the world of chairdancing.

6 bdr. 2 baths, Secure house. will pay BIG $$$
ALASKA SUMMER All you need is your Visa card. 
LOST: GOLD SEIKO WATCH 1021 DeMaude. $550 mo. Call eves 283-3536
EMPLOYMENT · fisheries. Love,WITH BLACK STRAP 234 6688 or 234 5041. 
$5,000+/month! Over 8,000 DesUrs I need a ride home to Florida afler
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN B1 openings. Free transportation! senior week. Will share expenses. 
PARKING LOT & LAFORTUNE. 
NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable Attention please. 
Room & Board! No experience hiag Call Katy 284-5122. 
LOST ON WEDNESDAY, 4/18. 
turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., I need two grad tix bad necessary. MALE or FEMALE.
CALL FATMATA 239·5243 efficiency-$225; 1 bdrm·$265 dep., honest, I am willing to pay big 
Send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OFBEFORE 5 PM OR 288·0440 references. bucks for them. 
84008, Seattle, WA 98124 · PRAYER AND JOYOUS TB · how does it feel to be the
AFTEA6 PM. ­
616-483-9572. Please call Greg at 3114
Satisfaction Guaranteed. COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A newest member of the "wave 
************* 

CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: your" fan club? New member
LOST: "Hawaii" Key Chain. Please ATIENTION: Excellent Income for 3 BEDROOM-GARAGE POOR GLARES, meeting is Sat. night -bring your
Call2347. 
NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $
Home Assembly Work. Info. Call 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W., own beer and cheese caterpillars. 504·646·1700 DEPT. P5868. KOKOMO,IN 46901. P.S. "point your", "hang your", and 
$525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT CALL #2059-JOHN LOST: Pair of Ray-Ban 232-3616. 
other possible name changes will Sunglasses, somewhere in God 

WANTED-GRADUATION

T·SHIAT: "Sex Kills ... Live Do you like to read ? Bring be discussed.
Quad Saturday evening. REWARD Turtle Creek Apt TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800­
Forever." $$$$$. Please Call: your books to CLUB 23 ICall Lizi X-2519. 
furnished/summer 888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK 
Deanne at 287-9043. To our favorite "Fianner Guys": Matt x3549 FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT 'MO' 
Remember us, your favoriteLOST: H.S. CLASS RING. 

AFTER 5 616-342-0729. 

PURDUE STUDENT LOOKING SMCers? We miss you! Let's get 
ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. 
FOR 2-3 ROOMMATES FOR ROOMMATE NEEDED. Furnished 00 WHEN YOU NEED COPIES 00 together at least ONE more time
REWARD. SEAN 2073 room in nice, quiet house near Need grad. tix for big $.
SUMMER. THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE before we all take off for the 
campus. Considerate, mature, Call Kevin 277·2399 IS OPEN LATE & WEEKENDS 
CALL JOE (317)743·591 8 summer. Waddya think? Would 
LOST: Black and gold Seiko 
•wwww•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• non-smoker a must. Available mid· you give us a call if I asked you 
dress watch on the second May. Summer $175/mo. Avail for 'I NEED GRAD TIX' ADOPTION. We are a childless, nioely? Please? -Christine•floor of the library. Please 
*MAKE EVERYDAY* 
Fall/Spring $250/mo. Call 232-My grandmother from DC would educated, secure, happily married, 
call Pat x24 79 or give to 
9952. Thanks. kill or die to see me graduate . I will white Christian couple. Give your
*EARTH DAY*
library security at the front 
pay BIG $$$ for 2 grad tix 

baby a fantastic future. Let us Have your voted for UMOC? It'sdesk. 
SUMMER CAMPAIGNS 
SUBLETIING our Turtle Creek call BRAD@ 271-0758 adopt her/him. Call us collect 201· not too late...Top 5 as of 4/24 
FOR THE 

townhouse for Summer '90. Call 
974-8227. 5. Bob Kloska LOST·· RAY BAN SUNGLASSES· Mike, x201 0. $$$
ENVIRONMENT 
4. Dave "The Dancing Bear· · Black wire-rims, left on a PA SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US! II Glenister

EARN $2500-$3500 
If you are selling GRAD TIX, call 
speaker at Earthday during the SUBLETIING TURTLE CREEK Mail Boxes Etc. 3. "Party Marty" Demmings
me first. MONEY NO OBJECT!! I TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, We're ON CAMPUS 5/5 to 5/12, 2. Joe Plant
Help pass the Clean Air
mind-shattering mega-jam of 
Superfreak. Call Mike x1464. 
Act, tighten pesticide 
FURNISHED. TOM 273·0302 In La Fortune (Dooley Room) I 1. Shawn Davis 
controls & promote 
UPS, Boxes;Shipping Supplies. 
Harry x2263 

LOST: Women's high school class 
277·6245

jcomprehensive recycling 
rlng ...gold ring, dark blue stone with gold crest on top ... ciass of 
I need graduation tickets for huge
Available in 18 states & 
FOR SALE 
STEPAN CENTER BUILDING

family. Please call Jeanne at 2600. 
1986...initials LAG on the inside ... 
D.C. 
MANAGERS are needed for PLEASE CALL #2533 

Call Kate toll-free: 
next year. Apply now at the
NEED 2 GRAD. TICKETS 

SPRING BREAK· DAYTONA 1990 Student Activities Office, 
1-800-75-EARTH 
CALL CHRIS 

Lost: Black TDK 3 112" disk. 
315 LaFortune. 
289-9710 $$$

Whoever found a diskette A Two Hour Video. See What You 
matching above discription in Saw or See What You Missed. 
FACULTY, DEPT. HEADS & 

the Mac Lab in the Math·Comp FOR RENT $17.95 plus $2.00 handling and HELP--NEED 4-5 GRAD. 
BOSSES: 

Bldg. last Wed. night or Thurs. shipping. 1-800·633-1639. TIX Ill WILL PAY$$ CALL morning please call. I have 20 JOHN AT x1684 13uy any 12•

WEDNESDAY IS SECRETARY'S 

2 BDAM, 2 BATH HOME ON N.D.
hrs. of work on it for a term ENTIRE ROOM· DAY.
AVE.2 BLKS TO CAMPUS.272·
project due on thursday !II EVERYTHING MUST GO!! Italian Su6 with.
6306

Call Paul@ x-1506 GIANT 10FT We Have Neat Mugs, Delicious ­CUSHION/CHAIR/COUCH· MUST Coffees, Teas, Cocoas and other
(PERSONALS One Litre 
LOST: A Canon Sprint camera NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD SEE! ONE OF A KIND. CALL 3114 great gifts for your SPECIAL at Senior Formal. Please call SAFE AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF ANDY OR GREG. 
SECRETARY. 
Soft 'Drint

Kay at277·8813. Thanks! ND2773097 1 FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED TO LIVE AT LAFAYETIE SQ. 
Phone orders & Deliveries 

TOWNHOUSES NEXT YEAR. (5 ant£ receive 
available.

BEDAOOMS/WASHER/DRYEAIN EW AND MORE) PLEASE CALL 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
$1.00 off

BETH OR JILL AT 2722 OR 2723 
LAFORTUNE LOWER LEVEL 239-6714
Louii· 
ca[[
Give the frog back 
277-3324
DENNIS W., 

1-ND Fully 
I think you guys sounded 

lalogr.phad FDiilbaiJ 
GREAT Monday afternoon! You 
J'ree tJJelivery .. 
know I would tell you if it ..........,..._............, was bad. You guys will be big next 
coupon ezyrres:

..,......,........ year, no doubt about it. 
American Heart ft 
billa I am very very happy to be 
4-29-90

1111 =--~ the band's water-girl, and, of
Association~ 
............111 course, to be your girlfriend. 
L---==.:~::..==....;;;;;;..____, ..................................... _J 
~--------­
-· 


-
page 14 Scoreboard Wednesday, April 25, 1990 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division w L R:s <E East Dtvlsk>n w L R:s <E Toronto 10 5 .667 Montreal 8 6 .571 Milwaukee 7 5 .583 11/2 Philadelphia 8 6 .571 Boston 7 6 .538 2 Pittsburgh 8 6 .571 Baltimore 7 7 .500 21/2 New York 7 7 .500 1 New York 5 6 455 3 Chicago 6 7 .462 1 112 Cleveland 5 7 .417 3112 St. Louis 6 8 .429 2 Detroit 6 9 .400 4 
West Division w L R:s <E West Division w L R:s <E Cincinnati 9 2 .818 Oakland 10 3 .769 los Angeles 8 6 .571 2 112 Texas 8 6 .571 21/2 San Diego 7 6 .538 3 Chicago 5 5 .500 31/2 Houston 5 8 .385 5 Minnesota 7 8 .467 4 San Francisco 5 8 .385 5 California 6 7 .462 4 Atlanta 2 9 .182 7 Kansas City 5 8 .385 5 Seattle 4 10 .286 
6 112 
RESULTS
z-denotes first game was a win 

AMERICAN LEAGUE Tuesday, April 24 
Tuesday's Gemes Milwaukee 7, Kansas City 3 New York 6, Seattle 2 Baseball Oakland 7, Baltimore 1 
Notre Dame 5, Chicago St. 4 Boston 4. California 2 
Toronto 4, Cleveland 3 Notre Dame 12, Chicago St. 4 

Minnesota 16, Detroit 4 Softball Texas 5. Chicago 4 
Notre Dame 9. Loyola 1 
Wednesday's Games Kansas City (Saberhagen 1-1) at Milwaukee (Filer 1-1), 7 p.m. Notre Dame 11 , Loyola 0 
-Seattle (Holman 2-1) at New York (Perez 1-1), 7:30p.m. Oakland (Welch 2-1) at Baltimore (Milacki 1-0), 7:35p.m. California (McCaskiii1-0) at Boston (Hetzel 0-1), 7:35p.m. 
SPORTS CALENDAR TRANSACTIONS
Cleveland (Bearse 0-1) at Toronto (Stottlemyre 1-2), 7:35p.m. Detroit (Robinson 0-1) at Mmnesota (Tapani 2-1), 8:05p.m. Chicago (McDowell 0-1) at Texas (Witt 0-2), 8:35p.m. Wednesday, April25 BASEBALL 
Thursday's Games Softball vs. GRACE COLLEGE (2), 3:30p.m. American League Cleveland at Toronto, 12:35 p.m. KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Recalled Kevin Kansas City at Milwaukee, 2:35 p.m. Thursday, April26 Appier, pitcher, lrom Omaha of the American 
Seattle at New York, 7:30p.m. No sports scheduled. Association. Optioned Jeff Schultz, outfielder, to First Period-None. Penalties-Chase, Stl Oakland at Baltimore, 7:35p.m. Omaha. (cross-checking), 2:34; D.Sutter, Chi, minor-major California at Boston, 7:35p.m. Friday, April27 National League (instigator, fighting), 4:51; Chase, Stl, major Chicago at Texas, 8:35p.m. Women's tennis vs. BUTLER, 3:30p.m. ATLANTA BRAVE8-Recalled Rusty Richards, (fighting), 4:51; Featherstone, Stl (slashing), Only games scheduled Track at Drake Relays pitcher. from Richmond of the International league. 11 :28; Yawney, Chi (roughing), 13:44; Momesso, 
Men's golf at Kepler Invitational, Columbus, Ohio Optioned Tommy Greene, pitcher, to Richmond. Stl (charging), 17:14. NATIONAL LEAGUE LOS ANGELES DODGER8-Purchased the Second Perlod-1, Chicago, Presley 7 (D.Wilson), Tuesday's Games Saturday, Aprll28 contract of Jose Vizcaino, infielder, from 2:06. 2, Chicago, Goule12 (T.Murray), 2:42. 3, St. Late Garnes Not Included Baseball at Detroit (2), 12 p.m. Albuquerque of the Pacific Coast League. louis, Brind'Amour 5 (Featherstone), 13:53. 4, 
New York 2, Atlanta 1 Men's tennis vs. MARQUETTE, 12 p.m. and BASKETBALL Chicago, Yawney 2 (Savard, Larmer), 18:09 (pp). Philadelphia 6, Cincinnati 3 DRAKE, 2p.m. National Basketball Association Penalties-Roberts, Stl (elbowing), 3:09; Presley, Montreal 5, Houston 3 
lacrosse vs. OHIO STATE, 4 p.m. NBA-Fined the los Angeles Lakers $25,000 for Chi (cross-checking), 7:05; P.Cavallini, Stl 
Chicago at San Diego, (n) Track at Drake Relays and at Ball State Invitational not playing Magic Johnson and James Worthy in (roughing), 7:05; Momesso, Stl (high-sticking), St. Louis at los Angeles, (n) Men's golf at Kepler Invitational their final regular-season game April 22 against 8:07; Creighton, Chi (slashing), 10:03; Hull, Stl, Pittsburgh at San Francisco, (n) Women's golf at lady Boilermaker Spring Classic, Portland. major-game misconduct (high-sticking), 16:47. 
Wednesday's Games West lafayette, ln. SAN ANTONIO SPUR8-Signed Mike Mitchell, Third Period-S, St. louis, R.Wilson 3 (G.Cavallini, Atlanta (Smeltz 0-2) at New York (Cone 0-1), 7:35p.m. forward. Released Zarko Paspalj, forward. P.Cavallini), 5:26 (pp). Penalties-Bassen, Chi Cincinnati (Mahler 0-0) at Philadelphia (Ruffin 1-1 ), 7:35p.m. Sunday, April 29 (slashing), :56; Balfour, Chi, served by Creighton 
COLLEGE 

Montreal (De. Martinez 2-0) at Houston (Deshaies 1-0), 8:35p.m. Baseball at Deloit (2), 12 p.m. ARMY-Announced the resignation of Larry (slashing), 4:52; Manson, Chi (trippirtg), 12:09. Chicago (Bielecki 0-1) at San Diego (Whitson 1-0), 10:05 p.m. Men's golf at Kepler Invitational Shots on goaf-Chicago 12-11-2-25. St. Louis 9­
Butler, men's gymnastics coach. 

NORTHERN ARIZONA-Announced the 5-19-33.
Pittsburgh (Terrell 0-0) at San Francisco (Reuschelt-1), 10:05 p.m. Women's golf at lady Boilermaker Spring Classic resignation of Dale Long, men's and women's tennis coach. 
St. Louis (B.Smith 1-2) at Los Angeles (Hershiser 1-0), 10:35 p.m. Softball vs. MAROUETIE (2), 1 p.m. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Results For Tuesday's Garnes Stepan 5 Games for Wednesday, Aprll25 Women's Resuhs for Tuesday's Gemes Stepan 8 Stepan 1 Tequila White lightning over South Stepan 1 Stepan 7 4:00-Rebels With a Cause vs. 4 Dunks & a Oink Adworks over Slow Punch Mem. Team by 15 Bend/Mishawaka Still Alive With Pride by 15 4:00 -Adworks vs. Fighting Kernals Sheepherd & Her Flock over Caffeine Buzz by 5:00 -Smooth, Swift & Sweaty vs. CJ's Gals 
Fighting Kemals over Gods of Hellfire by 3 The Gauchos over Rabid Dawgs by 8 4:45 -Senior Bar vs. Pittsburgh Is Weak 11 Good, The Bad & The Laundry over We Ain't Soft Expresso Pizza over Silent Assassins by 14 5:30 -The Good, The Bad & The Laundry vs. by9 3rd& Short over Reckless Abandon by 7 Soul Sonic Force Stepan 8 Soul Sonic Force over Painfully Huge by 11 6:15-Malicious Prostitution vs. Digger's NIT 3 To Bounce & 2 For the Boards over Better Off Books1ore9 
Stepan 6 Express Wet by 17 4:00 -Metamucils vs. Demal # 39 
5:00 -Chickens Have Lipps vs. No Surrender 
Senior Bar over Modacious Meatuses by 10 5 Stepan 2 Lyons 11 6:00 -lethal Weapon V vs. Windy City Wenches Pittsburgh Is Weak over Apocalypse & The 4 Segue over Denver Women Want to Hold Our 4:00-Sweet Scottie P. & The Dwarfs vs. Cotton lethal Weapon V over Sexual Chocolate by 1 0 Horsemen by 4 Nuggets by 5 Club Shoot To Kill over Irish Fish Out of Water by 15 Malicious Prostitution over The Dogs by 12 Paradise Jam over Raw Talent by 4 4:45 -Air Check & Ground Support vs. The Hawk Breaking The 3rd B over Hop, Skip & Go Naked Stepan 2 lenny's Swollen Utters over Anti-Slug Team by Bookstore 10 
4:00-Slow Motion vs. Untamed lyonsDigger's NIT Express over We've Got Crunch & Shoot Or Get Off over Snapperheads by 12 Will Never Die by 20 5:00 -5 Sistahs Tired of These Fools Trying toYou Don't by 5 5:30 -Nubian Pharoahs vs. Clock Work Orange Be Men ... Yes You! vs. Heavy B. & The Girls 6:00-Sheepherd & Her Flock vs. 3 to Bounce &Stepan 7 6:15-CJ's Pub vs. Peaches late Night All-Stars Lyons 12 

Stepan 3 Flipper & The Undertows over Ministers of Pain The Smell of a Female over Supreme Court by Sweet Scottie P. & The Dwarfs over J-Crew by7 Stepan 5 forfeit 
2 For The Boards 

Cotton Knit by 11 4:00-Flipper & The Undertows vs. Fastbreak Windy City Wenches over In Direct Violation by Cotton Club over Eddie & The Cruisers by 7 Bookstore9 4:45-Just Chillin' vs. Beer, Broads & Bookstore: forfeit Nubian Pharoahs over Cab's Crew by 6 Just Chillin' over Box In, Box Out by 13 2 Good Reasons to Go to NO F astbreak over Fly Girls by 15 Clock Work Orange over Environmental Rapists Multiple Scoregasms over Prof. Longhair & The 5:30-All The President's Men vs. Remember It's Lyons 11 by 15 Nighttrain Express by 8 Denver 4:00-Hey Leppo, What's That on Your Neck? 
Rubber Cement II over Shirts by 8 6:15 -3rd & Short vs. Shoot Or Get Off vs. T+A Stepan 4 5:00 -Murray's Madness vs. Grubs Air Check & Ground Support over The Fuddy Bookstore 10 Stepan 6 Women's Garnes for Wednesday, April 25 6:00-Shoot To Kill vs. Smell of a Female Duddies by 6 Fastbreak over Small But Huge by 9 4:00-Tequila White Lightning vs. lenny's Stepan 7 The Hawk Will Never Die over Digger Phelps, All The President's Men over Club Meerschaum Swollen Utters 4:00-5 Girl Who Just Do It vs. Mair. Moll & The 3 Lyons 12 Sal Aunese & 3 Other Guys Who Won't See by 12 4:45-Expresso vs. Paradise Jam Jens 5:00 -We're Clueless vs. 5 Countries in Search Denver by 14 Remember It's Denver over No "I" In Team by 12 5:30-Multiple Scoregasms vs. Rubber Cement II 5:00-5 Girl Who like To Score With Their Feet of 1 Fertile Peninsula CJ's Pub over The Donks by 4 Beer. Broad~ & Bookstore over IBM by 2 6:15-Gauchos vs. Segue & 1 Under 4'8" 6:00 -Breaking the 3rd B vs. Fastbreak Peaches over VITI & 4 Other Cool Dudes by f1 

•
• 
I ' 
I 
I 
-
I 
.. 
COME SlEIE OlJR NEW ITEMS Al...
SOPHOMORES flrtD )OrtiORS 
IHTERESTED IH STUDY OVERSEAS AFTER GRADOfiTIOH7 
WlE NOW HAVJh 
1111M f1TT1f1D fiM IMFOIU1fiTIOIIfiL MEETIIICI'IO LURM fiBOCIT RHODES. MfiRSHfiLL fiMD OTHIR SCHOI.fiRSHIPS 
GJIJIT CJERm1CAlmS 
WED"ESDfiY. APRIL ZS 
AND JEXCITllNG BAllOONS AND CARDS JFOR 
4:00 ROOM 121. LfiW SCHOOL 
GRADUATION 
ORDIR JlARLY! OUR LASf BUSINESS DAY IS 
MAY2 




Wednesday, April 25, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Irish softball team sweeps MCC foe Loyola in twinbill 
Quinn's team-leading second and third home runs pace NO offense in conference victories 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's softball team got out the bats for its doubleheader on Tuesday afternoon, spanking Midwestern Collegiate Conference rival Loyola 9-1 and 11-0. 
The victories, which upped Notre Dame's season record to 28-13, give the Irish a twl~lve­game winning streak and an 11-3 rneord in eonference play. 
In the first game. the Irish offense massacred the Loyola pitching staff, scoring three runs in the fourth inning on a double by Hachel Crossen. Four Notre Dame players enjoyed a multiple-hit outing, most no­table of which was Kathy Vnrnetti, who went 3-for-3 with two HBI and a stolnn base. As a team, Notre Dame pounded out a total of 11 hits in the contest. 
Additionally, the Irish swiped a team-reeord seven stolen bases in eight attempts. The previous stolen-base record for Notre Dame was six in one game, whieh had been aeeom­plislwd three times. Freshman Honni Alvarez was the chief thid for the Irish, stealing three bases. 
Loyola's only offensive out­burst came on a solo horne run in the sixth inning. 
The formidable Irish pitching staff was equally responsible for the lopsided outcome of the first game, as sophomore Missy Linn went the distance, giving up one earned run on five hits and no walks while striking out five. The win raised Linn's record to 12-6, second-best in the MCC. Also, Linn now stands at second on the MCC total strikeout list and ranks third in strikeouts per seven innings pitehed. 
In the second game, the Irish again put on an offensive power display, this time in sup­port of the two-hit pitching of freshman Staci Alford. The star of the second game was third baseman Sheri Quinn, who is back from the shoulder surgery she underwent in the fall. Quinn, who drilled her first home run of the season yester­day, launched two more long­balls in the second game. Her three home runs in two days tied her with Jeanne Stephens (Butler) for the MCC homerun lead, and gave her sole posses­sion of the lead for Irish team home runs this season. Quinn has hit three home runs in only 46 at bats, while Stephens has had 119 at bats to accomplish the feat. 
It was the mighty Quinn who started the Irish scoring, as she sent a solo home run over the left field fence in the second in­ning. The Irish then loaded the bases with one out, with Jennifer Moton scoring on a wild .pitch before Laurie Sommerlad smacked a two-run triple. Sommerlad later came home on a wild pitch. 

)[ 
.<'1; ... , 

. 
,... 
.·~ ~.:>NI(.'" ~ 
--·~...... '' 

The Cbserver I Matt Miltino The Notre Dame softball team, pictured earlier this season in a game against St. Francis, swept Loyola 9-1, 
11-0 Tuesday afternoon in an MCC doubleheader at Alumni Field. 
In the third inning, the mighty In light of the fact that the Quinn came through again, Irish only batted for four in­sending a blast over the left nings due to the ten-run rule, field fence for her second home their performance in the second run of the game. Also coming game was incredible, as they through for the Irish were hammered out 14 hits -one speedster Ronni Alvarez, who double, two triples, and two bagged her fourth stolen base home runs -while stealing two of the day, and freshman Lisa bases and scoring 11 earned Miller, who went 3-for-3, with runs. one run scored and an RBI, while playing left field, center On the mound, Staci Alford field, and second base. was nearly unhittable as she recorded her MCC-leading 14th victory, surrendering two hits, one walk and no earned runs while striking out eight in five innings of work. Alford leads the MCC in total strikeouts, number of victories, and also strikeouts per seven innings. 
NOTES: The Irish are in ac­tion again today against Grace College at 3:30 p.m. at Alumni 
Field. 
SMC softball seeks District 21 bid after outmuscling Tri-State in DH 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
Thn Saint Mary's softball tmun rang out a clnar messagn dnelaring that thny should bn eonsidnred for a post-season bid to the NAJA District 21 Tournament as they swept both ganws in a double !wader against Tri-Statf~ University. Tri-State had bntm ahead of Saint Mary's in the ratings prior to the game. The Belles defeated Tri-State 10-2, 6-1 on Monday at the Belles' home field.] 
In the first game, pitcher Stephanie Kissicorni (10-3). freshman. allowed only two runs on four hits as the Belles scored ten runs on 15 hits. Tri­State jumped out in front by scoring two runs by the second inning. But the Belles fimd back by tying the score in the bottom half of the inning. Saint Mary's went on to score three insur­ance runs in the third and turned the heat on in the fourth by scoring five more runs. Sophomore Janet Libbing went 3-for-4, smashing in three HBI's and sophomore Carol Grobner went 4-for-4, knocking in one RBI. 
The second game followed a similar pattern as pitcher Shannon Blair (3-5), sopho-

MUSICIANS T~NOTE! 
F F F I U U S t =il 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
MUSIC GROUP LEADERS NEEDED 
for 

SUNDAY MASSES 1990-91 Academic Year 
Opening for pianists, guitarists, strong vocalists or flutists 
PAID POSITION THROUGH FINANCIAL AID 
Interested persons should contact Sister Betty Smoyer, S.N.O. Campus Ministry 160 Regina Hall Phone 284-5392 
more, perlllitted only one run on three hits. Saint Mary's scored six runs in the game, accounting for four of them in the fourth inning. Co-captain Martha Judge, senior, went 4­for-4 with two RBI's in the game. 
Saint Mary's is currently B-5 in their conference. This is the record on which the District 21 Tournament will be decided. 
"They ]Tri-State] were ahead of us in conference and our records were even," said Judge. 
"It's hard to tell !the selection for districts]. but the two wins put us in a good position. It was probably the most impor­tant game of the season." 
Said Coach Don "Popcorn" Cromer, "The team is really on a roll and there is no doubt in my mind that we deserve to go to districts. We have some tough games ahead against Division I and Division II teams, but the team is playing the best they have all season and I'm sure we're ready." 

Wby Send Your Wiater Clotbes Bonae for tbe Summer? 
Just pick up a storage box at llker 
Cleaners, n1111 witli your winter 
clothes, and retum It to Zllun Ia • 
claned and alored, on hangers I• 
our moth-proof naltlar lbe ••-· 
*Low Cost Storage

*Nothing to Pay Till Fall 
*Prolec6on from MothsJnre/fteft
*llore Closet Space for your 
••-things. 

ICoawalwll.arlliiPI 
*107 Dill
,............_,
272-8093 
*lroawoodat._.. 
Bend Ava. 
(laxlloM.... I)
lrenwood ...,p,.. 
Caler
.,...... 


-


Courtesy of Sports Information Freshman pitcher David Sinnes has played a significant part in the early-season success of the Notre Dame baseball team. The Irish swept Chicago State 5-4, 12-4 in a doubleheader Tuesday. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
nine tackles. Sophomore linebacker Demetrius DuBose, walk-on free safety Chet Hollister, senior nose tackle Chris Zorich and sophomore defensive end Eric Simien had seven tackles apiece. 
Sophomore defensive tackle Eric Jones had two sacks on the day. 


The Nation's 
California flaridl MassaciiiSetts 
Colondo Illinois Miclligan 

Connecticut Maine ,..~ 
Oist.of CoUrDa Maryland Nlw .llney

-
STANL£YH. 

KAPIAN-SMH 
BAR REVIEW SERVICES 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 
PHONE 219/272-4135 

ftAmerican Heart ""'Association 
The Observer Wednesday, April 25, 1990 
Sinnes keeps opponents off base 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Assistant Sports Editor 

No one can accuse the Notre Dame baseball team of idleness. 
Last weekend, the Irish were scheduled for two doublehead­ers with Dayton, and since one of the doubleheaders was rained out, the team stayed through Monday to play the postponed games. The team re­turned from Dayton on Tuesday morning at 1 a.m., only to play a doubleheader with Chicago State at Coveleski Stadium at 5 p.m. that after­noon. 
Today, they'll play another twin bill. 
One might say that the Irish are even busy, winning three out of four from Dayton and sweeping a doubleheader from Chicago State (by scores of 5-4 and 12-4). As they prepare for another doubleheader at Coveleski today at 5 p.m., there is hardly time to focus on indi­vidual performances. 
But it is almost impossible to overlook some of the players's achievements. Freshman Eric Danapilis is hitting .404, freshman Pat Leahy has a per­fect 4-0 record and a 1.83 earned run average, and freshman Dave Sinnes is among the leaders in the country in ERA. 
Sinnes, after a somewhat shaky performance at Dayton over the weekend in which he walked seven batters in 4 1/3 innings, raised his ERA to 0.96. This microscopic earned run average, one of the five best in the country, is testimony to his tremendous raw talent, because it certainly isn't his control. In 
University of Notre Dame International Student Affairs Office 
and 

The japan-America Society of Indiana 

cordially Invite you to 
JAPAN: 2000 
A VIdeo and panel presentation by The Japan-American Sodety of Indiana Forum 
7:00 p.m., Wednesday, April 25, 1990 
Doors open at 6:30 p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snlte Museum of Art University of Notre Dame 
Jackson H. BaDey, Ph.D. , 
Director of the Institute for Education on japan at Earlham College. Richmond, and a co-developer of the Japan: 2.000 television series. Japan's government conferred on him the Order of the Sacred Treasure 
tor his efforts to promote understanding between our countries. Barbara Ito, Ph.D. Director ot East Asian Studies at the Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology. 
Jimmy W. Wheeler, Ph.D. 
Director of Economic Studies at the Hudson Institute. 
George M. WDson, Ph.D. 
Year

Director, East Asian Studies (.enter and professor of history and ot East Asian Languages and Cultures at Indiana Uritverslty. 
Of 

Telephone Reservations: ISO 239-5243 
The 

Everyone is Invited to meet the panelists at a reception in the Family Oriental Court ofthe Snite 
ADWORKS

Museum immediately followl the presentation. 

37 1/3 innings, Sinnes has walked 27 batters. 
"Against Dayton, I didn't exe­cute well," said Sinnes. "I didn't keep my concentration throughout. It happens, and it's something that I have to work on." 
A freshman on a pitching staff laden with newcomers, Sinnes has become prominent with his ERA, 5-1 record and 48 strikeouts. The basic tools for excelling are there, and if his control comes around, op­ponents should think about hiring hitmen for him. 
"Dave Sinnes is a pitcher who could be one of the best pitch­ers to come out of here," said his coach, Pai Murphy. "If he gets caught up with his statis­tics and numbers, he could get lost. But if he keeps his head on straight-and that's a big if­he can be one of the best pitch­ers to come out of here. The same goes for (Pat) Leahy and (Alan) Walania." 
Sinnes always has been an in­timidating pitcher. He allows a hit on the average of once every three innings, and has already pitched a one-hit shutout this year against Xavier. In high school, he had a career 27-2 record, a 1.01 earned run aver­age and 280 strikeouts. Now that he has made the transition to college, the batters are more disciplined, which forces him to be mentally sharp at all times. 
"The mental aspect is differ­ent in college," said Sinnes. "In high school I could just throw the ball because the batters weren't going to hit it anyway. 
But the batters are better on the collegiate level, and they're hitting me now. I have to learn how to pitch and not just throw." 
Each outing becomes an im­portant lesson for the Miami, Fla. native, as he looks forward to developing and refining his game. Murphy recognizes that the maturation process, not the talent, is what needs expedition, and that this season has been instrumental in Sinnes's mental development. 
"It's been a real maturing process for him," said Murphy. "fie always had the ability, but the key has been the adjustment to college life and the college game. Understanding that mindset is very important. He's beginning that process but he has a long way to go. 
"Dave has had a lot of suc­cess in his career. One thing is that he expects to win, a great asset to a team. If he continues to concentrate on his game, he will improve, and a lot will just come with maturity." 
Sinnes can be seen as a case study of the entire team. The squad is young, inexperienced, but flowing with talent. In the sense of gaining experience, the team motto "One More Step" is appropriate. 
"It's exciting. We're young but I think we've grown up a lot," said Sinnes. "We know that whenever we go out there we've always got a chance to win. Even if we don't, we know that we have learned and there is no problem with that. If we keep working hard, good things are going to happen for us." 
rWednesday, April 25, 1990 
The Observer page 17 
Blackhawks stay alive in playoffs with crucial victory over St. Louis 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Wayne Presley and Michel Goulet seored 36 seeonds apart in the second period and rookie Ed Belfour won his first playoff start as the Chicago Blackhawks defeated the St. Louis Blues 3-2 Tuesday night, evening their playoff series 2-2. 
Belfour was spectacular in the third period, protecting a one-goal lead with 18 saves. He finished with 31. 
Greg Millen started the Blackhawks' first 10 playoff games in goal, but did not dress for Game 4. Belfour had a 1.45 goals-against average in four relief appearances behind Millen earlier in the playoffs. 
Presley got his seventh goal of the playoffs, surpassing his season total of six, on a screened shot from the left side at 2:06. Goulet made it 2-0 when he knocked in a loose puck in the crease that goal­tender Vincent Hiendeau failed 
t.o dear. 
Items 
continued from page 20 
"I'm really glad (Pat) Murphy was my coach at Notre Dame, beeause he got me prepared for this type of game. lie's a great motivator and knows how to get the best out of his players. In college you get more attention individually. In pro ball you don't have to do the work if you don't want to, and that's where Murphy has hP.ip1~d me most." 
It's a eompletely different 
Trent Yawney scored the winning goal with Blues star Brett Hull penalized for draw­ing blood from the face of Chicago's Jocelyn Lemieux with his stick. Hull received a major penalty and a game misconduct. 
Lemieux had been hanging on Hull in the Blackhawks' end when Hull swung at him, receiv­ing his first penalty minutes of the playoffs. Hull, who has a playoff-leading 10 goals and 1 7 points in the playoffs, also had an eight-game playoff scoring streak stopped. 
Yawney scored on the result­ing five-minute power play, get­ting his second goal of the playoffs on a shot from the point at 18:09. 
Rod Brind'Amour and Ron Wilson scored for the Blues, who outshot the Blackhawks 19-2 in the third period. 
life, to be sure, especially for Peltier. Whereas his teammates might sleep the afternoon away or flip through the TV channels, Peltier spends his free time reading books and studying the history of the world since 1945. 
"I've got to get used to a life of baseball and reading books," said Peltier. What more eould a person ask? 
The bottom line is that Peltier is making the most of his time. lie's got a promising career in baseball ahead of him, but if it doesn't come through he 
The Blackhawks, the regular­season Norris Division champi­ons, regained the home-ice ad­vantage. The teams return to Chicago for Game 5 on Thursday. 
Hull had his only two shots of the game in the first 1:13, but Belfour stopped both with his glove. The Blues didn't have a 
shot in the second period until the midway point. 
Brind'Amour, who leads rookie scorers with 11 points in the playoffs, broke the drought when he scored at 12:53 after a rink-long rush. His shot from the left side deflected off Belfour's stick to cut the gap to 2-1. 
After Yawney's goal made it 3-1, Wilson answered with a power-play goal at 5:26 of the third period. Wilson slapped in a pass from Gino Cavallini from the right side of the net. 
always will have his degree at Notre Dame. He is serious about academics as well, as his grade point average is well above 3.0. On top of that, he is getting married in January. 
The supreme hope at the moment comes in the form of a simple phone call from the Ranger front office. When that will come no one can guess. 
"If I keep playing well I definitely think I'll be there," said Peltier. "All I can say is that I'll do my best, and that I'm definitely positive about the whole situation. I think I'll get a chance, but if I don't, that's the way the cards fall." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Hapkido Club meets Tues. at 7:30 and Thurs. at 8: 
p.m. in Rm. 219, Rockne. Learn Self-defense and stop wor­rying about walking alone. For more info, call x3597. 
Fisher Hall's "On the Grass Classic", two-person volley­ball tournament, will be held this weekend, April 28-29. Cost is ten dollars per team and all proceeds will go to Andre House, a shelter for the homeless in Phoenix, Ariz. Anyone wishing to enter the tournament should contact Tim Maloney at 283-1939 or stop by Room 140 in Fisher. Deadline for entry is Friday at 7 p.m. 
Women's Lacrosse practice will be held today and the rest of this week at 4:00 p.m. in front of Angela. If you can't make the game this Saturday call Jeff (234-9878). 
Women Lacrosse players remember to bring money for gas for all the drivers this past weekend. 
Free Coke Squeeze bottles will be given to the first 300 fans at Saturday's lacrosse match vs. Ohio State at 4 p.m. at Krause Stadium. In addition, there will be beach music and a halftime frisbee accuracy contest. 
Women's Varsity Cross Country and Track and Field. Beginning in the fall, women's track and field will be a varsity sport at Notre Dame. Any women interested in competing in track and/or cross country are asked to at­tend a brief meeting on Wednesday, May 2 at 4:00p.m. in the Loftus Auditorium. Any further questions. please call the Track Office at 239-6989. 
The Jordan Jammers Mini-Hoops will begin on today. Check the pairings and time schedules today at the SUB of­fice in Lafortune. If there are any questions eall 239-7757 or Rick at 234-9716. 
Lou Holtz will be the guest tonight for WVFI Sportstalk. Make sure you tune in to your 640 AM dial and join hosts Vic Lombardi and Hugh McGowan from 8 to 9 p.m. Phone lines will be open at 239-6400. 
~CHECK OR MONEY O:nE:FOR•S.~2:00 :AY:LE-::1 PAPER & WOOD I 2820 LINCOLNW A YEAST MISHAWAKA, IN 46554 NAME-------------------------------· --------------------------­I HOME ADDRESS------------------­~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~~=~---~--~~--·----~~~----~-----=---------------------~-=~ I H 0 ME PH 0 NE--------------------------------------------------------------------------­ 1. Constructed of high quality 1" birch veneer plywood. (Lightweight but strong!) 2. 62" Head clearance, 3. Interchangeable parts. (Can't be put together wrong!) 4. High tech fasterners for 30 minute assembly! 5. Designed to accomodate twin size mattress. 6. 2 reversible bookcases with 1/4 backs. we I a'snsJxn) 1. Typewriter/keyboard (27") or desk (30") extension. 8. Three footpads for esy access to sleeping area. 9. Assembly tool & cloth bag for handy storage of parts. 10. Stained medium brown with satin lacquer finish. •• Pick-up just 15 minutes from ND/SMC campus •• Verification of order, pick-up date and directions will be sent to you upon receipt of your order.  

r 
--·--~--l 
' 
page 18 The Observer Wednesday, April 25, 1990r 
I l ASU basketball under 
I 
I NCAA investigation
~ 
JONESBORO, Ark. (AP) -A

f 
three-member internal commit­tee has begun investigating sev­eral incidents of alleged NCAA rules infractions in the Arkansas State men's basket­ball program, ASU president Eugene W. Smith said Tuesday. 
Smith issued a seven-para­graph statement, but said ASU would have no further comment until the investigation is com­pleted and reviewed. The statement did not specify the nature of the possible infrac­tions. 
The statement said on April 13, ASU athletic director Charles Thornton "reviewed with me several incidents of al­leged NCAA rules infractions which had been brought to his attention." 
Smith said Thornton asked that a committee be formed "from individuals outside the 
Men 
continued from page 20 
unit before Bookstore," Warren said. ''I'm just starting to get a feel for what they can do." 
Former Notre Dame center 
Keith Robinson scored seven 
points, but his Raw Talent team 
lost 21-1 7 to Paradise Jam. 
Tom Livingston scored 10 
hoops for the winners. 
Former Irish walk-on Tim 
Crawford hit his final four 
shots of the game to lift Senior 
Bar to a 21-11 triumph against 
Modacious Meatuses. 
"We started out slowly," Crawford said. "Once we got things going, they really started to click. They were a tough team relative to the other 

athletic interests of the univer­sity to investigate these allega­tions." 
Smith said the committee be­gan reviewing the allegations last week. The team is coached by Nelson Catalina, who took the job in 1984 after being an assistant at the school for five years. 
"Arkansas State University is committed to operating its ath­letic program within the letter, and intent, of the NCAA rules," Smith said. "Violations will not be tolerated. 
"Until such time as the committee has completed its work, and their findings have been thoroughly reviewed, it would be inappropriate to comment upon what may turn out to be false allegations," the statement said. 
"We remain hopeful that all allegations will prove to be false. 
teams we had played. They re­ally played well as a team." 
All The President's Men con­tinued to roll with a 21-9 vic­tory over Club Meerschaum. 
Rubber Cement II shot 21-of­37 in its 21-13 win against Shirts, while Soul Sonic Force used six hoops from Martin Somerville to get a 21-10 vic­tory over Painfully Huge. 
Tequila White Lightning ad­vanced easily, 21-6 over South Bend Mishawaka Alive With Pride, and Lenny's used a sec­ond-half streak to gain a 21-16 triumph against Anti-Slug Team. Those two squads will play today. 
Sweet Scottie P and the Dwarfs crushed J-Crew Cotton Knit 21-10, while C.J.'s Pub held off The Donks 21-17. 
~~A~~·~ ~n 
cansavea 

Think Before You Dr1nk Before YOU Dr1ve 

College of Busj ness Admi ni strati on Soeaker Presentatj on 
Ms. Debor8h Kelly V1 c e Pres1dent -Corp o r8 t e Aff81 rs Qu8ker 08ts CompBny 
12: 15 pm Wednesday Apri1 25 
Top1 c: "M8rketing Long-Term Object1 ves Bnd Str8teg1 es In A Ve8r When TBrgets W111 Be M1 ssed." 
A11 students 8nd f8culty 1nvlted Bnd encourBged t() Bt tend. 

I>J>Photo Atlanta Hawks coach Mike Fratello (right) is hugged by Hawks President Stan Kasten after a press conference in Atlanta Monday where Fratello announced he was quitting as coach of the NBA team. Hawks General Manager Pete Babcock stands in the background. 
Women 
continued from page 20 

as the squad dominated the in­side game. 
"The five of us have played together before on Badin's in­terhall basketball team," Lynch said. "That definitely helped us." 
Sheephead and Her Flock overpowered 5 Girls On a Caffeine Buzz, 21-10, as Linda 
Powers contributed over half of her team's points with 11 bas­kets in 1 7 attem ts 
r ~~·· I 
I 
~ 

"We played well together, considering we only had one practice before the game," said Powers. "It was a lot of fun to play, especially outside where the weather was great." 
Sheephead and Her Flock have former St. Mary's varsity basketball player M. B. Tosing helping them advance, as she scored four times in the win­ning effort. 
In the worst blow-out of the day, Breaking the Third B crushed Hop, Skip, and Go Naked, 21-1. Maria Rhomberg was her team's high scorer with ten points in a game that took about fifteen minutes to complete. 
"It was fun to play," said 
Kathleen Hughes, who scored 
five times during the contest. 

In other games, Fast Break 
overpowered Fly Girls, 21-6, 
and Better Off Wet would have 
been better off anywhere else 
as they lost to 3 To Bounce and 
2 For the Boards, 21-4. 

There were two forfeits in 
yesterday's action, as The Smell 
of a Female won when the 
Supreme Court never showed 
up, and Windy City Wenches 
recorded a win over In Direct 
Violation, who were in violation ~f forfeiting. 


Zenith Data Systems LP's now come with all-terrain mt. bikes 
LP's also come with DOS, Windows/286 and a Microsoft mouse at no extra charge! 
Purchase a Z-286 LP Model 20 or Z-286 LP/12 Model 20 or 40 with any Zenith Data Systems VGA monitor and receive a Raleigh all-terrain 18-speed, ASSAULT mountain bike FREE! 
Just like Raleigh bikes, the Z-286 LP computer is built to take you to the top. And if you already own this bike, we give you an option of $200 off Z-286 LP and VGA monitor bundles! 
(Retail Value $300) 
Good thru Jnne 30, 1990 

Groupe Bull 


Wednesday, April 25, 1990 The Observer page 19 

LECTURE CIRCUIT 

3:30 p.m. Department of Chemical Engirteering and Miles Incorporated Visiting Lecture, "Chemical Industry and the Environment," Professor Agrwig Hulpke, Head, Central Services, Department for Environmental Protection, Bayer AG, Germany and Subsidiaries and Professor, University of Wuppertal. Room 214 Cushing Hall. 
4 p.m. "Human Rights and the Transition to Democracy in Chile," Hugo Fruhling, Harvard Law School, and Santiago, Chile. Room 105 Law School. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute and Center for Civil and Human Hights. 
4:30 p.m. "Yang-Mills Fields as Holomorphic Vector Bundles," Professor Gennadi M. Henkin, Academy of Science, USSH Central Economic and Mathematical Insti­tute, Moscow. Hoom 226 Math Building. Sponsored by Department of Mathematics and Office of the Provost. 
6:30 p.m. "Insuring Your Future," Michael Boehm '62 and John Lloyd '58. Center for Social Concerns. Spon­sored by Senior Class. 
7 p.m. Video and panel presentation, "Japan 2000." Panelists include Jackson Baily, Barbara Ito, Jimmy Wheeler, and George Wilson. Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by International Student Affairs, Japan-Amer­ican Society of Indiana and Year of the Family. Doors open at 6:30 p.m. 
7:30 p.m. Discussion, "The Future of Women in the Church," Rev. Sarah Webb Phillips, Cindy Geisen, David Guffey, Mary Abowd. Hesburgh Auditorium. Sponsored by the Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordi­nation of Women. 
MENUS 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Oven Fried Chicken Turkey Cutlets Noodles HomanofT Cheese Blintzes Gyros Spaghetti w/Meat or Marinara Mar Flank Steak Sandwich Deli Bar 
ACROSS 27 Fishing aid 
28 Spoil1 Gardener's 

bane 29 Cagers' org. 6 Peel 
32 President from 10 Mark on a Ohio 1909-13

leopard 14 Acknowledge 
35 Tremendous success

15Tabled'­16 Strauss of jeans 37 Gershwin fame brothers' tune: 17 Gershwin 1927 brothers' song: 
40 Some of the 

1930 boas 
19 Hebe's hawkish 41 Automotivebrother pioneer
20 Occupied an ottoman 42 Patti and 21 "-Camera": Maureen's pop Van Druten 
43 "A~ apple­

22 External 24 Foot pedal 44 Old Sol 
26 Woody, Steve or Mel 46 It follows "Sirs" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..:.:.+:..:..j..:..~ ..:,..+:~~~ 
.:..:.:...L;::,l,.;::....L:..:.L;:...I 


CROSSWORD 
48 Many college grads pursue these 
52 Shankar plays one 53 Sudden, sharp 
pain 54 Mauna­55 Foggy vapor 56 Gershwin 
brothers' hit: 
1927 59 Single time 60 First name in 
mystery writing 61 Clamor 62 Dr. Franken­
stein's aide 63 Given a color bath 64 Some are pear-shaped 
DOWN 
1 Part of an hourglass figure 2 Candice Bergen's dad 
13 "-the 34"San-," 47 Aquatic frolicker 3 Overact season .. Gable film of 48 Wove a chair 4 Morse dot 18 Sentry's 1936 seat 5 Long step command 35 Its capital is 49 Like Santa's 
6 What Mike and helpers
23 Forearm bones Khartoum Ike do 50 Stir from sleep 25 Odd and funny 36 Steak cut 
7 Smidgen 51 Clerks hope to
26 Mom's sisters, 38 Down Under 
8Tothe­make them 
e.g. bear
degree 52 Warble 9 Raze the roof, 28 Compensate 39 Gave approval 53 Flag support 30 Double 0 7 to
and more 55 "Me?" to Miss 10 Bluish gray 31 Noifs,-.. 44 Word with paper Piggy 11 Plant renewing 32 Russian ruler or piper 57 Ironic, as humor 
itself yearly 33-time 45 Needing quick 58 Aussie hopper, 12 Finished (never) action for short 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'{0\lR ~0'5£ IS PRG~BL'{ f>...\..l 
C.~ED \lf' 
KoW. 1\\JI-{? 
BILL WATTERSON 
~ 't-1\.l()l£ l\~ \'5 "" DI'51>.'5\£R. I GEl 1~.1\JR£1> J\J'5\ TR'<ING-\0 \.£.ARN 1\\t. S'(IlLS II Tl\I<.ES \\) 1>\..A'{ A Gf>.Mt. 1 [X)t-l1 t.'JEN 
WP.l-olT it> Plf.-'1! 
If '(O\l S~OR£., 

llS Al'N~'iS I'~ TILI\"'Er 
NIC£ i'o 
lWt. ~ED 9:) 

Hll-.'JE r>. 
'fO\l RPlL ()\)\ 

SW,\'1>.11\£1\C. FRIEND TO Tt>.LK m. 
TI\£ 'fli~00\'.1. 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"Ooo! Goldfish, everyone! Goldfish!" 
The World's 
l.nngest 
Running 
Musical-­
Now in its 
30thYear!! 


Sponsored by SUB Performing Arts 
Thlll'8day, April 26th thru 
Saturdayt April 28th 
7:30pm Washington HaD 
$5 Genera) Public $3 Student&'Senior Citizens 
Reserved SmtingTickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. Phone: 239-8128 
now o. tra.~ic s\"ory; Ou."" 
camera was -there when a Sl\l?.tter came down OY\ al'l un;den'r.fd vict;111 on +he k;tcr-en wi,..dow. We-d like 
to warn our more sens;t.ve , that they mo.y prefE-r Mt t'o tl1e fol\owir.g segh'lent: 
4·25 



Sports
page 20 

Dogs short on bark in big Bookstore defeat 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
The Dogs ran out of bark Tuesday afternoon in Bookstore Basketball XIX. 
Malicious Prostitution, last year's defending champions, struggled early and then domi­nated The Dogs 21-9 to ad­vance to today's round of 32. 
The Dogs scored first, used pressure defense to stay in the game early and trailed just 11­6 at halftime. The champs then turned it up a notch and outscored their opponents 10-3 in the second stanza. 
"I didn't know if they were taking it seriously." said Ken McKinney, who scored three hoops for the Dogs. "We've been able to jump out to an early lead in all of our games. They clamped down and beat us up a little bit." 
Joe Scott scored seven points to lead the winners, while John Bergmann added six. Jeff Burns scored three hoops for The Dogs. It was a moral vic­tory for The Dogs, an all­freshman team. 
"It felt good out there," McKinney said. "We've played some good teams, but nothing like that. We gave them a run for awhile." 

Adworks, possibly the strongest challenger for Malicious Prostitution's title, cruised to a 21-6 victory over Slow Punch Memorial Team. Three players -Jim Dolan, Cedric Figaro and Derrick Johnson -scored five points each for Adworks. 
Expresso Pizza, a strong candidate for dark horse in this tourney, breezed to a 21-7 win over Silent Assassins. Kevin Warren scored seven points to key that victory. 
"I think we played fairly well, but I think that as we start get­ting down to the final rounds that we need to concentrate more on our defense and pass­ing," Warren said. "Overall, we had a pretty good game." 
Warren, a third-year law stu­dent, brings a great deal of ex­perience to Expresso Pizza. He played in the Final Eight his first year of law school and then advanced to the Final Four last spring with Murphy's Bar. Now, he's helping pace a team that had not played a game together before the tour­nament began. 
"We did not even work as a 
see MEN I page 18 
Receiving, pass protection concern Holtz 

By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Rick Mirer answered one of­fensive question for Notre Dame last Saturday when he won the starting quarterback position. But two other crucial questions remained unanswered following Tuesday's intrasquad scrimmage in Notre Dame Stadium, the 19th of 20 spring dates allotted to the Irish. 
Who can be counted on to catch Mirer's passes? And who will protect Mirer from oppos­ing pass rushers? 
Head Coach Lou Holtz ex­pressed concern Tuesday that nobody stepped forward to win the top split end position this spring and that problems in timing and execution continue to plague the offensive line. 

''I'm disappointed we didn't find somebody to come in at wide receiver," said Holtz. "We might end up putting a fresh­man there. (Sophomore-to-be Adrian) Jarrell is an excellent backup. I feel confident with he and Rocket (Ismail) at flanker. occupied with baseball. Smith We still need to eliminate the caught two passes for 19 bad play." yards, including an 11-yard 
Senior quad-captain Ricky touchdown reception from Jake Watters, who was switched Kelchner. from tailback to wide receiver The offensive line has strug­early this spring, would appear gled since graduation losses to be the frontrunner at split and injuries to center Mike end. He did not catch a pass on Heldt and tight guard Mirko Tuesday but carried the ball 1 0 Jurkovic left the unit with se­times from the tailback slot for nior guard Tim Ryan as the 39 yards. only returning starter. 
Sophomore William Pollard "We have had difficulty pro­(five catches, 47 yards) and ju­tecting the passer on a consis­nior Tony Smith should com­tent basis," said Holtz. "We pete for the backup spot behind have some question marks in Watters. the offensive line situation and 
Sophomore Ray Griggs, who really have to address some se­has had a fine spring but vere problems. But if anyone missed Tuesday's scrimmage, can make an offensive line, looks to be the top flanker be­(Coach) Joe Moore can." hind Ismail. .. Junior Gene McGuire has 
Junior tight end Derek Brown filled in at center in Heldt's ab­has found himself the welcome sence and done a commendable recipient of more passes this job. Heldt, who suffered a dis­spring and led all receivers with located elbow in last season's 61 yards on three receptons Orange Bowl game, is expected Tuesday. Backups Frank to·return in the fall. Jacobs and Irv Smith have been Junior Justin Hall and senior Winston Sandri should start at the tackle positions with Jurkovic joining Ryan at guard. Senior Brian Shannon also has seen plenty of action at tight guard in place of Jurkovic. 

One area that does not con­cern Holtz is running back, where an abundance of talented backs should take some of the load off Mirer. Junior Rodney Culver returned to the field in fine fashion Tuesday, picking up 121 yards on 17 carries, good for a 7.1-yard average. He also scored on a 10-yard run. Ismail rushed 5 times for 49 yards, or just under 10 yards a carry. 
Mirer connected on 10 of 20 passes for 109 yards on the day. Jake Kelchner turned in similar statistics, making good on 9 of 19 attempts for 110 yards and a touchdown. 
Sophomore linebacker Brian Ratigan led the defense with 
see IRISH/ page 16 
Wednesday, April 25, 1990 
Women battle 87 degree heat as field is cut to 32 
By JANICE ARCHER 
Sports Writer 

The women's Bookstore Basketball field was reduced to 32 as games continued in 87­degree weather yesterday, and several seeded teams got closer to the finals. 
In the closest contest played on Tuesday, Lethal Weapon V eliminated Sexual Chocolate, 21-11. Anne Hartzel, a Saint Mary's varsity athlete in both basketball and soccer. scored 6 points in 12 attempts to lead the squad to the next round. Lethal Weapon also had the talents of Catherine Rastovich yesterday, another Saint Mary's basketball player who scored 5 points, subbing for an original team member. 
"They kept up the whole game, so the win wasn't easy," Hartzel said of their opponents. "They played really well and their rebounding was great." 
Irish Fish Out of Water proved to be exactly that, when the team of five women's swim team members lost to Shoot to Kill. 21-6. Barbara Broemmel and Erin Lynch led Shoot To Kill by scoring 7 baskets each, 
see WOMEN/ page 18 

Former Irish star Peltier is hot Item for Texas Ranger 
Not only is minor league baseball player Dan Peltier still an Irish Item. he is a Texas Ranger Item, and to take the matter further, a hot Item. Peltier played center field for Notre Dame for three years 
J 

and was drafted by the Rangers 
last June. The scouts must have 
been impressed by something, Scott Brutocao 
perhaps his .446 batting aver-Irish Items 
age or his 15 home runs and 93 
RBis during his junior year, or 
maybe his being named 
to the first team All-America by virtually every poll taken on the continent. 
Whatever the reason, the Rangers made Peltier a hefty of­fer and he accepted. He proceeded to play in the rookie league in Butte, Montana over the summer, in which his .414 batting average led the entire league. Because of his perfor­mance he was invited to the Hangers' spring training camp in March, and at that gala he hit about .450. 
"It (spring training) was fun, but pretty hectic," said Peltier. "There were so many guys and they had to figure where they were going to send each one. It was pretty much an organized confusion." 
The members of the organization's intelligentsia, including coach Bob Valentine, were able to sort through this institu­tionalized confusion to be impressed enough to put Peltier on the team's double-A affiliate. the Tulsa Drillers. 
"It's a lot better than Butte," said Peltier. 
You bet it is. The Rangers. like many teams in the majors, like to put their young talent in double-A ball and call them up to the big leagues straight from there. Quite an exciting prospect for a 21-year-old chap who's hasn't even been in professional baseball for a year yet. 
Meanwhile, Peltier hasn't forgotten about the other aspect of his life. his degree. Although he played in the rookie league during the summer after his junior year, he returned to Notre Dame for the fall semester. Now playing baseball again, he is taking one independent study course while in Tulsa, and on completion he will be 18 credit hours away from getting a Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration. 
And how is he doing? Through 11 games, he is hitting .270 with three home runs and 11 HBis. He plays left field and is third in the batting order. 
Peltier will be the first to tell you that playing on minor league teams is not the fraternal experience of blood broth­ers that collegiate baseball often is. Everyone is on his own, trying to impress in order to advance. 
"Pro baseball i~ different from collegiate baseball because people view it as a job, not just something that they're do­ing," said Peltier. "College seems more team-oriented. The primary concern here (in the minors) is to move up, even though you still want to win games. 
see ITEMS I page 17 






