
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1990
VOL XXIII NO. 71 
1 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
-

ND sets new annual fundraising record 
By DAVID ZIRINGER He credits the Strategic 
News Writer Moment campaign as being an 
especially profitable source. 
Notre Dame received $53.8 The campaign, a five-year ef­
million as a result of 1990 fort concluding in 1990, has al­
fundraising, establishing a new lowed the university "to reach 
record for annual contribu­out to many more people," he 
tions. said. With the campaign, 
According to Joseph Sand­alumni, 50% of which donate 
man, director of Development, annually, are personally so­
students stand to benefit as a licited by phone. 
result through financial aid. So far, this program alone has 
The funds will provide amassed over $450 million. "greater support for under­"The tremendous enthusiasm graduate scholarships and alumni and friends have for the graduate fellowships," so stu­university is a direct reflection" dents can attend Notre Dame of supporters' endorsement of "regardless of economic back­Notre Dame's direction, Sand­ground," Sandman said. Many man said. gifts were restricted to student He said contributors' gen­assistance, he said. erosity reflects "confidence in 
By enticing graduate students the leadership of the univer­with fellowships, Sandman said sity." Notre Dame "has the potential to be ranked among the best Corporate and foundation research universities in the donations amounted to $18.5 country." million, including an unprece­
Also, contributions will sub­dented $2.4 million in corpo­sidize professorships and li­rate matching funds. Also, the brary endowments as well as Annual Fund and planned-giv­providing $60 million towards ing commitments achieved university construction, he said. record levels. 
Members of the U.S. Army's 24th Mechanized Infantry Division appear to be guiding an F-16 plane's
Sandman said the $53 million Sandman is "optimistic of fu­
bomb payload to target during a live fire exercise in the Saudi Arabian desert Thursday. 
record is the result of both tra­ture fundraising" as pledge 
ditional and temporary sources. commitments are fulfilled. 
New program will research better teachi.ng methods 
By MARK CAWLEY program or improve upon an teaching careers." junior faculty," said Michael institute similar programs," News Writer existing program. Loux, dean of the College. Loux said Jennifer Warlick. The fellowship year will also In a written description of the said that junior faculty must The endowment also provides 
Notre Dame will institute a include monthly meetings be­program Warlick stated, "the balance their research with the money to start a video tape li­new teaching fellows program tween the fellows and their program here has two principal demands of the courses they brary of the best teachers at next year in the College of Arts mentors during which they will goals: to allow faculty members instruct. Notre Dame. Fello~s will be and Letters as a result of a discuss ways to improve teach­to experience the rewards of able "to take the tapes home $135,000 grant from Lilly En­ing methods. The fellows will good teaching at the same time The program will be funded and study them," said Warlick. doW11Jent Inc. also receive a one course as they pursue their research; by the Lilly Foundation for The video tapes will be ar­
After a competitive selection reduction and a summer and to maintain the tradition of three years. If the program is ranged according to the nature process, six junior and one re­stipend. teaching excellence for under­successful, th~ University will of the class and the style of cently-tenured faculty will be graduates as Notre Dame be­continue the funding of the teaching. chosen to participate in the Jennifer Warlick, associate comes a major research univer­project. At this point, there are program. The new fellows will dean of the College of Arts and sity." no plans to institute similar The College of Arts and Let­each work with mentors on a Letters, said the program is in­The quality of teaching is "a programs in the other colleges ters will solicit applications to teaching-related project. Dur­tended to provide the fellows critical problem in research at Notre Dame, but "we hope the fellowship this spring. The ing the year they will each pre­with "a philosophical founda­universities because tremen­that it will be so successful that first program will begin with pare an innovative teaching tion (on which) to base their dous demands are placed upon the other colleges will want to the 1991-92 school year. 

• 
ND students give in spirit of Christmas 

By SIOBHAN MCCARTHY 
News Writer 
Though stress "over final ex­ams has caused most of us to feel a little more like Scrooge recently, there are quite a few ND students who've been busy volunteering their time and effort in the giving spirit of Christmas. • 
Dorm Community Service Commissioners all over campus have organized special service projects to help out all of the needy, modern-day "Tiny Tims." Projects include everything from Christmas baskets and stockings, special collections, giving trees and various kinds of volunteer work. 
Notre Dame is also attempt­ing to spread its Christmas cheer across the world this holiday season. U.S. soldiers won't be getting any egg nog this Christmas, but Notre Dame students have decided to settle for the next best thing: Kool-Aid. 
Erin Lavelle spearheaded the campus drive for donations to buy sugar-free Kool-Aid, which will be sent to the soldiers in the Middle East. 
"Right now, (as of Thursday) we have at least $200 in the (change containers in the) Huddle," according to Lavelle. This amount, however, does not include any of the money col­lected from various dorm boxes located all over campus. 
Chip Fortson has also gotten into the holiday spirit while helping to organize a service project for Saint Edward's Hall. 
"We get every room to put together a $10 to $15 stocking" which is filled with much­needed items such as caps, mit­tens, socks, and school sup­plies, Fortson said. 
The stockings were collected and then given to inner-city Chicago kids. "We've been do­ing this for three years now, and it's working really well," Fortson added. 
Siegfried Hall has been 
.busy as well, coordinating several festive projects at once in preparation for the joyful season. Community Service Commissioners Jill Miller and Julie Hennigan were in charge of "collecting toiletry and clothing for the Women's Care Center in South Bend. We also collected money for a family in South Bend through the Salvation Army," Miller said. 
In addition, Siegfried resi­dents have been doing some volunteerwork at Portage Manor. Portage Manor is a shelter for homeless people, recovering alcoholics, people with personality disorders and the mentally and physically handicapped. 
"We've visited them all throughout the year, and just. recently held a Christmas Party for them," added Miller. 
Keenan residents have been 
see XMAS I page 4 

Spring computer class schedule announced 
Special to the Observer 

The spring schedule of evening computer training classes has been announced by the Office of University Comput­ing. The classes are free and open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. 
Scheduled classes will be held if more than five students are registered in advance. Students may register in person at the Information Resource Center, Room 111 in the Computing Center Mathematics Building. Registration can also be done by phone by calling 239-8111. 
Class sizes are limited to 15,_ and registration is on a first­come, first-served basis. The following classes will meet from 7 to 9 p.m. on the specified dates. 
"Beginning Microsoft Word 4.0" is designed for students who have no previous experi­ence with the Macintosh word processor Microsoft Word. Ba­sic keyboard skills and famil­iarity with the Macintosh con­cepts of point, click and drag is assumed. It will be held in Room 248 of the Hesburgh Li­brary. The sessions offered are: Jan. 22 (Tuesday), Feb. 6 (Wednesday) and Feb. 21 (Thursday). 

see CLASS/page 4 
Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays! 

This is the last issue of The Observer before Christmas break. We will resume publi­cation on January 16. The Observer would like to wish everybody a safe and happy Christmas and New Year. 


The Observer Friday, December 14, 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, Dec. 14 

20
20 Lines show high temperatures. 20 

Yesterday's high: 57 · Yesterday's low: 35 Nation's high: 86 
30 (McAllen, Texas) Nation's low: -6 (Warroad, Minn.) 
Forecast: Partly cloudy and cold today. Highs in the mid­dle 30s. Mostly cloudy tonight with a 50 percent chance of rain or freezing rain late night. Lows around 30. Cloudy Satur­day, with a 60 percent chance of rain. Highs around 40.

FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNst 
OF INTEREST 

A memorial mass will be held for Laurie Lesniewski Directing Finals will be held at the LAB Theater i.n at Holy Spirit Chapel in LeMans Hall on Saturday, Dec. Washington Hall, Friday at 7 p.m. Four one-act plays wtll 15, at 4 p.m. be performed. 
The Michiana Coalition for Justice and Peace is sponsoring a silent, candlelight vigil for peace in the Persian Gulf. The vigil will take place on Friday, Dec. 14 Congratulations to the following winners of the from 7 to 10 p.m., Sat. Dec 15 from 7 to 10 p.m., and LBBS/BCAC raffie-1st Prize, Chris Michel; 2nd Prize, Sunday, Dec. 16 rrom 3 to 5 p.m. at Howard Park along Joseph Profy; 3rd Prize, Laurie McNeilly. Jefferson Ave. Call Candace Carson at 273-1763. 
WORLD 

.OPEC ministers today endorsed maintaining Oliver Tambo, president of the African National high crude production to ease any oil shortages caused by Congress, returned to South Africa today after 30 years the Persian Gulf crisis, and pledged to sharply reduce in exile, and thousands of wildly cheering supporters their output once it is resolved. Nigerian Oil Minister hailed the opposition leader. Tambo was welcomed ~y Jibril Aminu said the accord, which quickly wrapped up Nelson Mandela, the ANC's deputy president and the an.tt­the cartel's winter meeting that began Wednesday, apartheid organization's leading figure, and other semor "should firm (prices) up and send a signal (that people) leaders when his plane from Zimbabwe touched down at need to relax in a time of worry." The ministers' action Jan Smuts Airport. Foreign diplomats, including U.S. reaffirms an earlier decision to suspend the Organization Ambassador William Swing, were at the airport to greet of Petroleum Exporting Countries' production quota sys-Tambo. About 5,000 people, some singing and da?,ci?g, tern and allow its 13 members to produce to their utmost. stood outside the airport to welcome Tambo. Vtva Iraq and Libya had opposed the move by the cartel in Au-Tambo!" the crowds chanted as they waited for a glimpse gust to produce excess crude, of him. 
NATIONAL ­
I 

Charles Keating's version 
The Census Bureau says it has found an addi­
• of his dealings with five senators is be­tional 750,000 people -mostly criminal parolees and ing sought by the Senate Ethics Com­probationers -it missed during its April count. But offi­mittee through the indirect question­cials of the nation's cities insist this is only a fraction of ing of a top aide of the savings and the total number overlooked and want an adjustment in loan operator. James Grogan, who the final tally. "At this point we feel we have done a very served as Keating's lobbyist, was be­thorough census," Census Director Barbara Everitt lieved to have extensive knowledge Bryant said Wednesday in _announcing the update. The about Keating's ties to five senators u­newly counted people will be added to the preliminary nder investigation by the pa'nel. And he had extensive count of 245.8 million. Bryant and Michael Darby, under­contacts himself with the lawmakers and their staffs. secretary of commerce for economic affairs, said the Grogan appeared under subpoena before the ethics panel newly counted people were found through five programs in closed session on Wednesday and was called back for designed to check the accuracy of the April 1 head count. more questioning today. The committee ordered Grogan The Census Bureau compared its count against parole to testify in hopes he would provide information from a and probation records, asked people to come forward if side that has not yet been heard in 16 days of public hear­they were missed, sent workers to recanvass households ings -that of Keating, whose Lincoln Savings and Loan that had mailed in a census form, and checked vacant and Association collapsed in 1989 at a cost to taxpayers of uninhabitable housing for someone who might be living in 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Friends make holidays a time for celebration 
For as long as I can remember. "Christ­mas Eve's Eve" has been a highlight of the holiday season. It's the day that my three best friends of the past 16 years and I exchange our ~fts. 
Monica Yant 
The scenario is al­ways the same: Jenny Assoc. News Editor and I, the two lacking any shred of patience, make desper­ate pleas to start the proceedings early. Lizzie, on the other hand, is the procrasti­nator. We're lucky if she's even shopped for our gifts by December 23, let alone wrapped them. And Molly's no help, as she knows that changing the rules would make Lizzie even more frazzled. Sooner or later, we get to the real fun: opening the loot. As we have changed over the years, so have our tastes. Gone are the 
days of chinsy costume jewelry from Claire's Boutique (usually given by me, since I was the only one who didn't have pierced 
ears and was so damn jealous that I wanted to buy earrings anyway). 
Molly and I went through the "Official Preppy" paraphernalia stage, accumulating handbooks, photo albums and all things pink and green. Jenny was always the Beat­les nut, that is until she picked up an affin­ity for books about Ted Bundy and Charles Manson, with titles like "The Top Ten Gris­liest, Bloodiest, Violent Murders in the United States." 
I remember the year that trench coats were all the rage, hence the Salvation Army digs that hang limply in our closets to this day. Group presents have always been a hit, from Jenny's hand-painted boxer shorts to Molly's porcelain ornaments to Lizzie's chocolate sampler boxes that she buys us with leftover dining hall money. 
Last year's group present is my all-time favorite. After convincing the Sears Photo Studio schlepps that the four of us were sis­ters. we snagged a free family portrait courtesy of a cereal box coupon. Jenn}' then had 8x10s made for all of us. 
What's funny is that even though the pre­sents·nave changed, the tradition, and more importantly, our friendship, hasn't. We may be scattered across the Midwest seeking the meaning of life (or at least a bachelor's de­gree), but we haven't lost sight of that which we will always know is real: our "Randallia Drive" bond. 
Although it's harder to buy presents now that we're older, we still do it. Molly's an artist-in tl'ftining and practically an adult, but it seems strange to buy her something practical. Lizzie's off to Germany next semester, so I could always go the "traveler's necessities" route. Jenny's gift is easy: Now that she's a practicing Granola, I know I can't go wrong with anything in the ethnic-jewelry/Deadhead clothing de­partment. 
Perhaps I'll just frame this c6lumn for each of them. Then, twenty years from now when we struggle to find a way to get to­gether each Christmas Eve's Eve, it will be easier to remember why we always do. 


Ihe Obset:Ver-=­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 Production
Thursday's Staff Wendy Cunningham 
News 
Jeanne Blasi 
Brad Galko Frank Rivera 
Systems 
• Cesar Capella Paul Froning 
Accent Robyn Simmons 
Circulation
Brian Grunert Bill O'Rourke Michelle Devers Matt Novak 
Fran Moyer Graphics 
Mickey Muldoon Mark McGrath 
Sports 
Steve Burgun 
Dave Dieteman VIewpoint Denisse Marion·Landais 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fridav except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Pressure 

® © ffi] ~ [II]. 0 A EZj 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
more than $2 billion. INDIANA 
Christopher Harville, 3, of Noblesville, was killed in a mobile home fire that apparently started when he and an older brother were play­ing with matches or a cigarette lighter, ~uthori­ties said. "It appears that the boys, ChriStopher and his (5-year-old) brother, Edward, were play­ing in a closet of the home and they got some­thing to start a fire. It caught an old mattress o~ fire in the closet, and the fire got out of control, Lt. Mitch Russell of the Hamilton County Sheri.fTs Department said. No other injuries were re­ported. The children's mother, Carmen Harville, escaped the mobile home with her son Edward after the fire broke out, authorities said. Authori­ties are continuing to investigate the blaze. 
them. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Volume in shares 
182.27 Million 
tt 1.83 S&P Composite /\.

330.19 11' 3.75 
Dow Jones lndustrials.n 2,561.88 v 24.26 
Precious Metals Gold +$0.70 to $373.50/oz. 
Silver +o.24¢ to $4.026/oz. 
NYSE Index 180.25 

ALMANAC On December 14: 
e Jn 1911: Norwegian ex­plorer Roald Amundsen became the first man to reach the South Pole, beating out an ex­pedition led by Robert F. Scott. 
e In 1939: The Soviet Union was dropped from the League of Nations. e In 1945: Josef Kramer, known as "the beast of Belsen," and 10 others were hanged in Hameln for crimes committed at the Nazi's Belsen and Auschwitz concentration 
camps. e In 1962: The U.S. space probe Mariner 2 approached Venus, transmitting back in­
formation about the planet's atmosphere and surface tem­perature. 
.. 


Friday, December 14, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Many students, rectors prefer former ho~sekeeping system 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 
Chris Colville liked it better the old way. 
Colville, a resident of Flanner Hall, was very friendly with "Larry," a housekeeper as­signed to Flanner Hall last year, and still refers to him as a "stud." 
"He'd come in and talk to us [last semester]." said Colville, "He wouldn't slow down his work or anything, but he'd talked to us while he worked. He was cool." 

However, this past semester changed that. As of this semester, housekeepers no longer come into students' rooms except for a weekly emptying of garbage cans. 
Colville said he misses "Larry," who now works in an­other mf!n's residence hall. "Now, the only time I see the maids is when they come early in the morning to empty the trash," he said. 
Joe Minadio, a resident of Grace Hall, said he and his dormmates also miss the per­sonal contact with the house­keepers of his hall. "We always used to get together and give [the housekeepers] a Christmas present. Now we don't know who they are." 
According to "Joanna," a housekeeper in a men's resi­dence hall, most of the house­keepers also miss the personal contact with students. "I don't get to meet people anymore," she said. 
"Joanna" said that the housekeepers did not have much input in the decision to stop cleaning students' rooms. "When they announced the changes, our bosses basically told us 'If you don't like it, you can get another job.'" 
Col. David Woods, director of support services, was not available for comment. How­ever, Frank Parker, assistant director of building services, said "There have been im­provements in dorm cleanliness over the last semester." 
However, Father Wilfred Borden, rector of Pangborn Hall, disagrees with Parker's assessment of the situation. 

"The gen,eral climate in the dorm has diminished. The showers aren't as clean," he said. 
Bqrden said that last semester, the housekeepers were also helpful in terms of hall sscurity. "They'd know if a stranger was in the hall, and they'd report it to us." 
The rector of one women's residence hall, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that, while there had been no noticeable change in the quality of her hall's cleanliness, she has noticed that her house­keepers seem "pressed to get the work done." 
She also said that her house­keepers had "expressed regret for the loss of personal contact with the students." 
To compensate for the loss of maid service, the halls are now stocked with cleaning supplies for the students to use in their rooms. 
However, Brother Bonaven­ture Scully, rector of Keenan Hall, said that his students "are not using the cleaners as much as they should." 
New travel agent to move into LaFortune· 
Special to the Observer 
The University will have a new travel agency on campus effective January 2, 1991. An­thony Travel will occupy the space in the LaFortune Student Center which Travelmore/Ask Mr. Foster has leased for the past several years. 
Anthony Travel, will be desig­nated as the University's official travel agency. The president of the company, John Anthony, will oversee the LaFortune office. Office hours will be between 8:30 a.m. and 5p.m., Monday through Friday. The phone number will be 239­7080. 

P~at~~~~ 7~ Seeffia!t ?~rl~ s~.'D~15 s..oo ftM ~. 7~ ?lk~. e.s.e. Seuulalf. ~ 16 1o..oo 4M ~. ~ .&~. e.s.e. 
Zist Birthday!!! 


Chris, Annmarie, Susan, Maria, Alicia ~Jnaara~e, Trisha, Gait Mar, ••etc•• 

Anthony Travel has a toll free number for its LaFortune office during normal business hours. This number can be used when you are traveling and need to make changes in your travel plans. The number is 1-800­366-3772. 
A second toll free number will be established for 24-hour­a-day, seven-days-a-week assis­tance. This number will be an­nounced in January. 

Houses watched over break 
Special to The Observer 
Off-campus students who would like their houses checked by the South Bend Police De­partment over break must make requests before leaving for home. 
In an effort to reduce home burglaries, the South Bend Po­lice Department will provide a house check for Notre Dame students who reside ofT-campus while away on Christmas break. ­
To request a Home Watch call the South Bend Police at 284­9201 or pick up a form at the Notre Dame Security Complex. Only one Home Watch form per house should be filled out and the house must be unoccupied during the period requested. 






IF!!\travel more 
~Carlson Travel Network 
A T T E N T I 0 N FA C U L T Y, S T A F F, S T U D E N T S 
We are moving our present office from LaFortune to 1725 South Bend Avenue (Next to Frank1s Red Hots) beginning January 2, 1991. PLEASE CALL-284 ..2051 OR I..8Q0..232..2681 

WATCH FOR OUR GRAND OPENING DRAWING 

page 4 The Observer Friday, December 14, 1990 

Class 
continued from page 1 

"Beginning WordPerfect 5.1" is designed for students who have no previous experience with the PC/DOS word proces­sor. Students are assumed to have WordPerfect 5.1 basic keyboard skills. The class cov­ers the basics of word process­ing using WordPerfect 5.1 Stu­dents will create, format, edit, save, retrieve and print a sim­ple document. They also will learn to use the spell checker and thesaurus. This class will be held in Room 247 of the Hesburgh Library on Jan. 23 (Wednesday), Feb. 7 (Thursday) and Feb. 19 (Tuesday). 
"Writing a Paper with Mi­
AP Photo 

crosoft Word 4.0" assumes ba­
An Amtrak passenger train, left, and a Massachusetts commuter train collided Wednesday morning inside 
the Back Bay train station in Boston. Over 100 people were injured in the accident. See story below. 
sic knowledge of Microsoft Word 4.0 to produce a complex document, including advanced
Investigators search for cause of wreck formatting and finishing, 
BOSTON (AP) -Federal au­thorities Thursday began examining everything from personnel files to train data recorders to determine what caused an Amtrak train to derail in a tunnel and hit a commuter train, injuring 264 people. 
Investigators saiq they could not confirm or deny reports that speed was a factor in the crash Wednesday and said they would not speculate on the role of an apprentice engineer oper-

Xmas 
continued from page 1 
almost as busy as Santa's elves lately. 
"Every section does a pro­ject," said Keenan Community Service Commissioner Joseph Whalen. "Some guys adopted a sister at Saint Mary's (College). Our section adopted a family," according to Whalen. Another section went Christmas carol­ing at retirement homes. 
Other Keenanites went to the Northern Indiana State Day Care Center and played with mentally and physically handi­capped children. 
"Some went bowling and others went swimming," Whalen added. 
Howard residents have gotten involved with the addition of "a giving tree in the front area en­trance," according to Laura Cattaneo, Howard community service commissioner. 
Residents were asked to vol­untarily pick an ornament off the decorated tree. Written on each of the ornaments was the name of a particular item such as a hat. gloves or mittens, "that would really help needy people during wintertime," said Cattaneo. 
Alumni coordinators Mark Ross and Mike Smith have been busy organizing a solid base of volunteer workers at a new homeless shelter in downtown South Bend. 
"We're serving dinner to them (homeless people) this year," Ross said. 
The group has already con­ducted a clothing drive and is still asking for volunteers to join the group of thirty people already signed up. All ND stu­dents are welcome to join. 
"We need to get a good base of people, basically students. It'd be an excuse for them (volunteer students) to do two good things at once," added Ross. 
Students would be able to help poverty-stricken people 
ating Amtrak's Night Owl train from Washington. He first took over operation of a regular train run Monday, authorities said. 
The investigators worked un­der a temporary brace put up Thursday to bolster the tunnel ceiling, which ruptured when the Amtrak engine jackknifed on impact. 
Federal investigators have conducted drug and itlcohol tests on crews of both trains, as is routine after crashes. They 
and make some good friends, too, according to Ross. 
Badin residents have helped spread the holiday cheer to a family with a "daughter our age," according to Laura Navarro, Badin community ser­vice commissioner. 
Badin residents have provided the family with "clothes and a meal," according to Navarro. 
Kathy Royer, coordinator for service/social action groups at the Center for Social Concerns, commented on the extensive role which the esc has played in these dorm Christmas pro­jects. 
"The Center for Social Con­cerns referred all the commis­sioners to the Salvation Army" also planned to see if the tracks conformed to the proper gauge size and check maintenance records. 
They will also document what happened to the seats, walls, food equipment and other equipment on the trains to look at how they withstood the im­pact. 
Wednesday's morning rush­hour crash in the Back Bay Sta­tion injured 264 people. Fifteen people spent the night in hospi­tals. 
in order to obtain the names of needy South Bend families. 
There are also "quite a few staff and faculty groups that are doing that, too." ROTC stu­dents also made donations to South Bend families, according to Royer. 
The Student Government also contributed its share through the 1, 1 and 1 project. The columns, tables, footnotes and importing graphics. This class will be held in Room 248 of the Hesburgh Library. Sessions will be offereq on Jan. 29 (Tuesday), Feb. 13 (Wednesday) and Feb. 28 (Thursday). 

"Writing a Paper with Word­Perfect 5.1" assumes basic knowledge of WordPerfect 5.1 and covers several advanced features of WordPerfect 5.1 that are especially useful for writing papers and setting up documents in final publication 
project collected one non-per­ishable food item, one article of 

Give to the United Way. 

clothing and one children's 

y
book from donors. All collected items were given to the Saint Vincent Depaul's society, an organization which distributes 

Ha1ppy 21§~
food and clothing to the poor. The project was "fairly suc­cessful," according to Rob 
1Bfur~hdlay~
Pasin, student body president. 
format. These features include: footnotes and endnotes, foreign characters, system defaults, headers and footers and page numbering. The location of this class will be Room 247 in the Hesburgh Library. Sessions will be held Jan. 30 (Wednesday), Feb. 14 (Thursday) and Feb. 26 (Tuesday). 
In "Introduction to Hypercard 2.0," students will be intro­duced to Hypercard database, painting and hypertext tools and will explore their potential uses. This class will held in Room 248 of the Hesburgh Li­brary. Sessions will be held Jan. 31 (Thursday) and Feb. 12 (Tuesday). 
In "Graphks with SuperPaint 2.0," students will learn how to create new graphics and ma­nipulate existing graphics. Topics include painting, draw­ing, special effects and more. The location of this class is Room 248 of the Hesburgh Li­brary. Sessions will be held on Jan. 24 (Thursday) and Feb. 5 {Tuesday). 
"Introduction to Unix" is a general overview of the UNIX operating system. Topics in­clude the directory structure, file handling, editing and mail. The inten!}ed audience is the UNIX novice on any platform. This class will be offered in Room 175 of the Fitzpatrick Engineering Building. Sessions will be held Jan. 22 (Tuesday) and Jan. 29 (Tuesday). 
Yeah! 

Sport's finally Legal 

love;·

Happy 21st 
Mom; Dadl; & Love, 
IBill

Mom, Dad, Terri, Steve, Lyndsey, Marci, Kevin, Connor, Tim 
4:30 7:15 9:30

ZXJ?t'7 7tJiet;&7! Cathy Evces will be 2 J on January 41 

~GLEY
HOPI?Y 
DOWNUNDER I:·.,,
Birthaay 
TOM ,. .


Cathl 
SE~CK ...· 
Love, Mom, Dad, Mike, Marsh, and Terry 









ROCKY I/ 
4:45-7:30-9:45 
IPu nl 


MISERY 5:00 
JAMES 
CAAN 7:15 
KATHY 9:45 
• BATES~ 

r 
-~ --------~­
Friday, December 14, 1990 The Observer page5 

, 
.,..}/ 
:~· 
L 
Voices of Faith The Observer/David Short 
Members of the Notre Dame Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble, with the accompaniment of several musicians, performed last night at Washington Hall. With "Having You There" as the theme, the 11­year-old choir provided a celebratory, praise-filled concert. 
FORT HOOD, Texas (AP) -A flight surgeon with orders for Saudi Arabia is on a hunger strike and hopes he will be dis­chatged from the Army after becoming too debilitated to work. 
Capt. David Wiggins, 28, a West Point graduate, said he opposes war and has been try­ing to get out of the Army since February. He is scheduled to ship out to Saudi Arabia on Monday. 
"I came away from West Point realizing that moral deci­sions are up to you," Wiggins said. "War is not a necessary evil, because non-violent politi­cal change is possible." 
He said his hunger strike is designed to make him of no use to the Army, and he believes he soon will be unable to perform his duties. 
On a diet of water and vita­mins, the 5-foot-10-inch Wig­gins said his weight has dropped from 167 pounds to 
152. He began the fast Nov. 30 after a federal judge refused to overturn the Army's ruling that 

Doctor goes on anti Gulf hunger strike 
he could not be discharged as a conscientious objector. 
"I am applying.for conscien­tious objector status because I have come to the conclusion that it is immoral and futile to defend freedom through the use of military force," Wiggins wrote in his application in February. 
"Freedom is a natural human drive, spontaneously expressed, which does not need defense and rebels against force of any kind. Only through non-violent means can we safely defend our freedom." 
Wiggins has offered to pay the government for his educa­tion at New York Medical Col­lege.. 
Initially, an Army investigator and other officials concluded Wiggins merited the conscien­tious objector status. His com­manding officers blocked the move, and his request was re­jected by the Conscientious Ob­jector Review Board. In late November, a U.S. district judge denied Wiggins' first legal at­tempt to overturn the board. 
Wiggins said that as an 18­



;i(¥¥¥¥0¥¥¥R¥¥¥A¥¥¥N¥¥¥G¥¥~E¥¥¥¥8¥¥¥0¥¥¥w¥¥¥¥¥L¥¥¥¥¥iei ~:~.~~~;:~~~~;;~; 
....,.... 
i( 
~ 
i( ~ 
~ 
~ 
ieie 
i( '"-~\
iC • 4.\''"'o
XV
t 0,,;,G~~0
~ ~' ~ 
ie e 
_.... ~~,.~
~ '~V
iC iC 
iC iC
iC
iC iC 
!iC 
iC iC
iC iC 
i( iC 
: 
ie 
iC 
iC iC iC 
T-s h 1•rts & Sweatsh•. rts 
Available at: 
Tracks 277-8338 
1631 Edison Rd. 
Roseland Shell 272-3751 415 Dixie WayS. 
Spaghetti Works 232-4414 501 N. Niles Ave. 259-6000 211 Day Rd. 
Sir Richard Hair Salon 277-0734 417 Dixie Way N. 
Marriott 234-2000 
123 N. St. Joseph 
Active Tan 272-9780 
52303 Emmons Rd. 
Coach's 277-7678 2046 South Bend Ave. 
TO ORDER CALL (219) 633-5349 (24 HRS) Visa, Mastercard & C.O.D. 
A 
,..,
~O~.-tt9.~ 
, ~ 



~ (\'1
:,'­
~ft ~­

: Catholics vs. Convicts III T -sliirts, ie Sweatshirts and Hats are still available. 
~ 
iC 
iC iC © 1990 PBM, INC. All Rights Reserved 
: Pow"' Bo>e Munagement, Inc., 2424 Bow Court • Bu;Jd;ng 8 • South Bend, IN 46628 (219)282-9344 
~ 
~ 
iC ~ ~ 
iC ~ 
ie~ 
~ 
iC 
~ ~ 
iCiC 
~ 
;
iC iC 
iC iC 
i( 
• 
iC
iC 
t 
~ 
~ ~ 
iC
iC 
• 
iC 
iC 
~ 
• 
• 
• 
: 
. 
iC 
• 
• 
iC 
: 

¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 
conservative town steeped in a white, Anglo-Saxon world of God and country. 
Wiggins applied to the U.S. Military Academy and only one other college. 
"I was very proud to go to West Point," he said. But he 
said life there opened his eyes
to a military world different 
from his dreams of glory. 
At medical school, Wiggins said he met minorities and peo­pie from other religions that led 
him torethinkhisworldviews.
"They were good people," he r--sa_id_.-------., 
PASS ALONG 

VALUABLE THAN GOLD. 
LIFE. When you make a be· quest to the American Heart Association, you're 
passing along a precious legacy. The gift of life. That's because your contri­bution supports research that could save your de­scendants from America's number one killer. 
To learn more about the 
Planned Giving Program, call us today. It's the first step in making a memory that lasts beyond a lifetime. 
~a American Heart 
~Association 
This space provided as a public service. 
~--~--~----~------~ 
page 6 
EC will vote on aid to Soviets 
ROME (AP) -The European Community will vote on a $2.4 billion aid package for the So­viet Union at a summit this weekend and will renew de­mands for Iraq's unconditional withdrawal from Kuwait, Ital­ian delegates said Thursday. 
On the eve of the two-day meeting in Rome, President Bush sent a letter to Italy, now EC president, urging the Euro­peans to stand firm against Iraq. 
"For us, the withdrawal of Iraq from Kuwait must happen without conditions," said Premier Giulio Andreotti's spokesman, Pio Mastrobuoni. 
He said European le.aders were unmoved by Iraq's release of Western hostages and would issue a declaration in line with their previous statements de­manding Iraq abide by U.N. resolutions. 
The meeting starting Satur­day is also expected to launch the 12-nation trading bloc on a radical path of political and economic union. 
British Prime Minister John Major will make his interna­tional debut. EC officials hope Major will be more open to Eu­ropean integration than his predecessor, Margaret Thatcher. 
Her isolation at an EC summit in Rome in October was a main factor leading to her forced resignation after 11 years in power. 
"We will miss Mrs. Thatcher because she was the only woman sitting with us," Mas­trobuoni told a news confer­ence. "But I can only say that in the preparation phase there has been active cooperation from the British side." 
A proposed $2.4 billion food and economic aid package to the Soviet Union will top the agenda. 
The proposal by the Commu­nity's executive body, the Euro­pean Commission, envisages $1 billion in food aid for 1991 ­one-third in grants and two­thirds in guaranteed credits. The rest would consist of tech­nical help for 1991 and 1992. 
Bush said Wednesday the United States would provide $1.3 billion in loan guarantees for the Soviets to buy U.S. farm products and manufactured goods. 
Despite Italian confidence that the EC will approve the So­viet aid, the issue remains con­troversial. Some member states argue Moscow will never be able to repay the loans and that help should focus on the chaotic Soviet distribution sys­tem, not on handouts. 
The European leaders will also consider aid to the new democracies of Eastern Europe. The European Commission says Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia and Hungary, as well as Yugoslavia, will need $5.5 billion in extra financing next year. 
On Saturday, the summit will inaugurate two intergovern­mental conferences to fashion treaties for monetary, economic and political union. 
Calls for a common defense have increased since the Per­sian Gulf crisis. Only Britain and France, for example, have sent ground forces to the gulf. 
But not all EC governments are ready to talk about a joint defense policy. Britain fears undermining the role in Europe of the U.S.-led North Atlantic Treaty Organization. 
The Observer 


War and peace 
AP Photo 

A Zulu, holding an axe and an olive branch, stands at a rally Wed­nesday addressed by Zulu lnkatha leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi. 
Friday, December 14, 1990 



Earthquake shakes Sicily, killing 19 
SYRACUSE, Sicily (AP)-A moderate earthquake shook eastern Sicily early Thursday, killing 19 people and injuring about 200, panicking thousands and destroying part of a small town, officials said. 
Worst hit was Carlentini, a town of 10,000 people between Catania and Syracuse, where members of five families were killed when their homes crum­bled on top of them as they slept. 
The quake struck at about 
1:30 a.m. (5:30 p.m. Wednesday EST) and registered 
4.7 on the Richter scale, the Ministry of Civil Protection reported. It was followed by dozens of aftershocks during the day. 
"There was a huge roar all of a sudden. Everything shook," said Sebastiano Valvo, an em­ployee at the Syracuse prefect's office. 
The bodies of 13 people were pulled from the rubble in Car­lentini. They included two elderly couples; a woman, her two daughters and two grand­children; a 32-year-old bar owner; and a couple and their 18-month-old daughter. · The bar owner's wife died of her injuries in the hospital in Lentini. 
Io addition, four elderly peo­ple from the Catania area and one person from Niscemi, west of Syracuse, died of heart at­tacks after the quake, the Ital­ian news agency ANSA re­ported. 
A rescue worker in Carlentini told ANSA that he "found the bodies of Sebasliano Musumeci, his wife Francesca and their 18-month-old daughter Veron­ica together. 
"They're all hugging in a big bed," the unidentified worker was quoted as saying. "Maybe they were in such a deep sleep that they didn't even under­stand what happened. Let's hope it was like that." 
The couple's 5-year-old son Rosario~scaped. 

About 200 people were in­jured, the Italian news agency AGI said. 

·-------~--------~~­
SAVE MONEY ON YOUR NEXT 
I 

COMPUTER WHEN YOU BUY THIS ONE, THE ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS Z-286 LP+. 
The Zenith Data Systems Z-286 LP Plus 
~ 
(~ ~'~~:b -~~:.;;.·Jriti~~::.~. 
----... .~~!~_!:~~ ~---. 
~----·----­
HOW? Simple. Only the Z-286 LP+ is upgradable from an 80286 to an 80386 SX processor. In English, this means you get a computer today that meets your needs and a computer that can be upgraded to a more powerful one in the future, when YOU need it (and have the money). It's an affordable way to to protect your computing investment. 
--, 

SPECIFICATIO NS 
Processor:  80286. upgrodable to 80386 SX  
Hard Disk:  20 or 40MB  
Memory:  1 M 8 RAIYI. expe.ndable to 8MB  
Ports:  2 seriaL 1 parallel (printer)  
Mouse:  Microsoft Mouse  
Video:  YGA  
Software:  MS-OOS, Windows  3.0  
Monitor:  FTM 14" YGA Color  


ZENITH • 
data systems ~ 
Groupe Bull 
PRICING 

ZMF-286-><2 286 LP+ Model 20. with 20 Mf;l hard disk. FTM color monitor. ONLY: $1777.00 Qncludes Y.~'ORDPERFE CT 51) ~MF-286-X4 286 LP+, Model 40. with 40MB hard disk. FTM color monitor. 
ONLY: $1984.00 (includes WORDPERFECT 51) 
Contact 

NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE Math/Computer Bldg. 
239-7477 

.-----------·-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~ 

The Observer page 7 

Bush welcomes home hostages 
Says 'hell no' to rewarding Saddam for release 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush, welcoming f~rmer Persian Gulf hostages to the White House on Thursday, sharply rejected any suggestion that Iraq's Saddam Hussein should get a reward for letting them go. 
"Hell, no. Not one thing," Bush said. "You don't reward a kidnapper. You don't reward somebody who has done some­thing he shouldn't have done in the first place." 
Asked if he expected to be able to defuse the tensions in the Persian Gulf, Bush snapped, "One way or another we will." 
The president met with seven newly released hostages as 32 of their countrymen left the Persian Gulf on what could be the last charter out. He said stories told by returning

Returning British hostage John Biggs celebrates with his wife, Pam, 
hostages have demonstrated

and his sister Ann, at left, after landing at London's Gatwick Airport 
the brutality of Saddam's ac­

Tuesday night. Released American hostages were welcomed at the 
tions.

White House by President Bush on Thursday. See story at right. 
"What this man put the world 


.:...,..~:o.-~:o.,...:..,...:..,..:......:..,.~:o.,.llll.-.:..,.~:o.._.:.....~:>•~:o•..:..,..~:o.._.:..,..~:o.,...:..,...:..,..:..,.~:>..:a.~:o•~:>...,.~:>.,.~:>•~:>•~:>•.:.•~:>•~:o-..:..,..~:o.o= ..:..o=~:o& 
~ ~ J  The Office of Student Activities and The Department of Music  } ~ !  
~  present  .c  co.' 
;!l  ~~~ .. "c  0  
c .  !l0  
0~  '0  
0!l.  '0  
«  ~  
c  ~  
0!l  '0  
c  ~  
c  ~  
r  ~­ ~  

I 
l 

• \\ !
I ·:· Christmas :t: ;i ··· with tlie i j9{sJtre 'Dame (j[ee C[u6 f ~ Friday, December 14, 1990 i 

i 8:00 PM i­
f ~ 
, Stepan Center , t 0 Free Admission -~ r' r ~ a collection will be taken to benefit !\) 0 
f the South Bend Shelter for the Homeless i 
~ ...,.~:>.o=.~:>.o=.~.,..c,-= e>...,.e.,..e>..,..e>..,. c,.,..c,..,. e..:a.e&> ~:>&>.~:>&> e.,..e.,.~:>.,.~:o..,..e.,..:....~:o.,..:.....~:o-.~:o•~:o.-~:o.-~:o.-.:..-~:o.._.:..,.~:o..,...:.....,.e>.,..~:o! 

through -I just can't express it. And I think you all expressed it coming home with a clarity that has brought this home to the American people," Bush said. 
He said after the hour-long meeting, "It was a very moving experience. A lot of people who showed a lot of support for what we're doing." 
The hostages included one man who hid within the U.S. Embassy compound in Kuwait, four who had been used as "human shields" at sensitive Iraqi installations and two who had been in hiding in Kuwait. 
Also on Thursday in Wash­ington: 
-Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney stressed that Saddam's release of the hostages brought with it no indication the Iraqi president would pull his troops out of occupied Kuwait. 

Cheney said Saddam "continues to deploy n;Jore forces to Kuwait and southern Iraq. Every indication is he in­tends to continue his illegal oc­cupation of Kuwait." Cheney made his comments to re­porters after speaking at the National War College. 
-U.S. District Judge Harold Greene denied a request by 54 Democratic members of Congress for an injunction to force the president to seek a declaration of war before launching an attack on Iraqi troops in Kuwait. 
The judge said the Constitu­tion requires a president to gain such authorization before launching an actual attack, but he said the case was premature since a majority of Congress had not expressed a view on a possible attack and because Bush "has not shown a com­mitment to a definitive course of action." 
-The Air Force said it is sending more U.S. warplanes to Saudi Arabia from Germany and Britain, and the Navy an­nounced the activation of hun­dreds of reservists for medical duty in the gulf area. 
Also, the Pentagon said Ch­eney and Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will travel to Saudi Ara­bia next Tuesday to visit Amer­ican troops and to meet with Saudi government officials. 
Two former hostages spoke with reporters after the meet­ing with Bush and said the group supported his handling of the gulf situation. 
"To a man, we were in agreement with the care and the diligence which is being taken by the president," said Ralph Montgomery, 56. 
Montgomery, an architect from Indian Rocks Beach, Fla., said he hid with his son-in-law, who was a teacher at the American school in Kuwait. He praised their Palestinian neigh­bors for protecting them. 
Antonio Mireles, who had stayed at the embassy com­pound, said the hostages told Bush the Kuwaitis are a peace­
. loving people and "what has happened here cannot be left unattended." 
"It was atrocious what oc­curred here," said Mireles, 48, who had been working a civil engineer for the Kuwaiti gov­ernment. 
The last planned U.S.-spon­sored flight from Iraq arrived in Frankfurt, Germany, carry­ing 94 passengers. Those on board included the last five U.S. diplomats from the U.S. Em­bassy in Kuwait. 
Ambassador Nathaniel Howell and other American diplomats had defied Iraq's order to shut down the embassy in August. Cut ofT from most supplies and with their compound surrounded by Iraqi soldiers, the embassy staff subsisted mainly on canned tuna and boiled water from their swim­ming pool. 


God giveseach persononelifetime. What are you doingwith yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Cop.ley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
page 8 The Observer Friday, December 14, 1990 
• 


Invite a senior who aced the course over for pizza. (This is known as "Pizza Gratia Passa'' or Pizza for the Sake of Passing.) 
Pepperoni slices make good page markers. • 
Economics is easier ifyou've got a coupon. 
To reduce stress, kick back with a Domino's Pizza and 
Coca-Cola~ 
Sunday Double : Early Week Special : T~o Large Piz~as 
· Feature : . wtth one topptng. 

Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 1835 South Bend Ave. 289-0033 816 Portage Ave. 
C1990 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
Friday, December 14 1990 The Observer 

A.

gahd, girUe...Happy 21st Birthday 
Touch a life. Give to the United Way. 
.... 


MUSICIANS PERFORMERS TECHNICIANS 
SANDUSKY, OHIO: Friday, Jan. 4 Cedar Point Park Attractions Office Rehearsal Studios Registration: I:30-4:30p.m. 
COLUMBUS, OHIO: Thursday, Jan. 10 Ohio State University Drake Union Registration: 2:30 -4:30p.m. 
BEREA, OHIO: Friday, Jan. 11 Baldwin-Wallace College Kulas Musical Ans Building Registration: 2:30-4:30p.m. 
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN: Monday, Jan. 14 University of Michigan Michigan Union -Anderson Room Registration: 2:30-4:30p.m. 
MT. PLEASANT, MICHIGAN: Tuesday. Jan. 15 Central Michigan University Norvall C. Bovee University Center Registration: 2:30-4:30p.m. 
EAST LANSING, MICHIGAN: Wednesday, Jan. 16 University Inn 1100 Trowbridge Rd. (Rts. 496 & 127) Registration: 2:30-4:30p.m. 
KALAMAZOO, MICHIGAN: Thursday, Jan. 17 Western Michigan University Dalton Center, School of Music (Park at Miller Auditorium) Registration: 2:30-4:30p.m. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CO!lOT ACT: 
DECATUR, ILLINOIS: Tuesday. Jan. 22 Millikin University Richards Treat University Center Registration: 2:30-4:30p.m. 
BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA: Wednesday, Jan. 23 Indiana University Memorial Union -Solarium Registration: 2:30 -4:30p.m. 
MUNCIE, INDIA!'/ A: Thursday. Jan. 24 Signature Inn Comer of McGalliard & Bethel Rds. Registration: 2:30 -4:30 p.m. 
BOWLING GREEN. OHIO: Friday. Jan. 25 Bowling Green State UmvefSity University Union -Ohio Suite Registration: 2:30 -4:30p.m. 
PITTSBURGH. PA: 
Sunday, Dec 30 

Monday, Jan. 2R 
7pm

Point Park College Studio #4 Reg!Stration: J:(X)-6:00p.m. 
KENT, OHIO: Tuesday. Jan. 29 Kent State University Studem Center-Third Floor Regi,tration: 2:30-4:30p.m. 
SANDUSKY, OHIO: Wednesday, Jan. 30 Cedar Point Park Attracuons Office Rehearsal Studios RegistratiOn: I:30-4:30p.m. 
Tuesday, Jan I, 91 Midnight -1 am 
page 9 



Angola gets assistance from superpowers 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Repre­sentatives of the two warring factions in Angola met Thurs­day with three outside media­tors and a joint statement is­sued afterward reported "significant progress" toward reaching a cease-fire in the country's civil war. 
Joining the Angolans at the talks were officials from the United States, the Soviet Union and Portugal, the former colo­nial power in Angola and site of the five rounds of peace talks held thus far this year. 
"We believe that significant progress has been made, and that the prospects for a suc­cessful sixth round of negotia­tions in Lisbon early next year have been enhanced," the joint statement said_ 
The statement said the dele­gates were favorably impressed by the friendliness of the atmo­sphere created by the two An­golan parties as well as by the seriousness of their approach to the negotiations. 
The U.S_, Soviet and Por­tuguese participants held a news conference late Thursday, but declined to cite the areas in which progress was made. They also said tpe discussion was an exchange of views rather than a negotiating session. 

Herman Cohen, the U.S. as­sistant secretary of state for African affairs, said that the "main point of agreement" is that Angola's leftist government is now willing to implement constitutional changes that will convert the country from a one­party Marxist state to a multiparty democracy. This was agreed to at a party congress this past weekend. 
The Portuguese representa­tive, Antonio Monteiro, said an "enormous gap of confidence" has existed between the two factions but that this problem is being overcome. 
The United States and the So­viet Union have been arming opposite sides in the conflict but have agreed to stop weapons shipments once a cease-fire agreement is reached. The war has dragged on for 15 years and killed hun­dreds of thousands ofAngolans. 
The leader of the Angolan rebel movement, Jonas Savimbi, said Thursday after a meeting with President Bush that peace prospects have improved as a result of joint efforts by the superpowers. 
"I think both the United States and the Soviet Union are joining hands in trying to find a solution to the Angolan prob­lem," Savimbi said after a 20­minute meeting with Bush, dur­ing which he thanked the presi­dent for U.S. support for his forces. 
He said his goal is a truce in early 1991 and free and fair elections by the end of the year. He said the rival factions in Angola are close to a settle­ment. 

T!u Offieiaf!Vot~t OOJKt P~~ !fto.~u.~t~t.l 
Wednesday, Dec 26 

Starting Wednesday, December 26th, Everyday's aBeach Party 
at Penrod's with:  
• Uve Bands  • Volleyball Games  • Beach BBQ  
• Umbo Contest • Animal Raft Races  • Muscle Beach  
Starting at Noon  All You Can Eat Stone Crabs  
Don't Miss:  The Jpm Bikini Contest·  
Miami Style  

Official Notre Dame Pep Rally 
• 
BBQ on the Beach 

• 
Cheer Along with the Notre Dame Band, Cheerleaders. D'bmers, and Fans 

• 
Notre Dame Irish History in Sports ­Go Back in Time Watching the Best of the lrtsh on 15 N's Located All Around the Club 

• 
And then... The Party Goes On! Join Your Friends on the Dance Floor to Rock 'n Roll till3am! at Miami's Hottest Nightclub! 



page 10 The Observer Friday, December 14, 1990 
Young farmhand is key witness in Mendes trial 
XAPURI. Brazil (APJ -An illiterate farmhand in hiding for more than a year has become a key witness in the trial of a rancher accused of plotting the murder of Amazon rain forest defender Chico Mendes. 
Prosecutors say the testimony of the 15-year-old farmhand, who waited for hours under heavy guard to testify Thurs­day, will be vital in their at­tempts to prove rancher Darly Alves da Silva plotted Mendes' 1988 killing and even held a barbecue to celebrate it. Attor­neys say his testimony is now expected Friday. 
Alves da Silva's son stunned the court on the frrst day of the trial Wednesday by confessing to the slaying of the rubber tapper, but prosecutors contend the statement was crafted to protect his father. 
Mendes, 44, had gained inter­national recognition for orga­nizing opposition to ranchers who have cleared vast swaths of rain forest for pasture, threatening a vital ecosystem as well as the livelihood of rub­ber tappers. 
He became a symbol of Brazil's poor and landless, and the trial in this Amazonian town near the Bolivian border has gripped this nation of 150 million people. His killing gal­vanized international efforts to save the rain forest. 
Amazonia contains 30 per­cent of the world's rain forest. Uncontrolled slash-and-burn clearing already has destroyed more than 250,000 square miles of rain forest, an area equal to the size of Texas. 
Scientists estimate a patch of jungle the size of a football field disappears on Earth every eight seconds, with the carbon dioxide released by the burning adding to the greenhouse effect said to be warming the planet. 
The teen-age witness, Genezio Barbosa da Silva, was to take the stand late Thursday on the second day of the trial, but reading of depositions into the night here pushed back his testimony to, at earliest, Friday morning. The jury also asked Thursday for a transcript of the son's videotaped confession. 
The boy arrived in this re­mote jungle town Thesday un­der escort by state troopers carrying submachine guns. He has been kept isolated in a back room of the tiny wooden courthouse guarded by a half­dozen heavily armed police. 
Prosecution lawyers said they have received anonymous threats saying Genezio would be killed. He has remained in hiding for more than a year in several southern Brazilian 
GENUINE 
BUFFALO 
JERKY 
*GREAT* STOCKING STUFFERS
*EXCELLENT * 
ORANGE BOWL SNACKS 
DELICIOUS LESS CHOLESTEROL MORE PROTEIN 
4 PIECE SAMPLE-$5.00 20 PIECES-$22.50 40 PIECES-$39.00 
Send Check or Money Order To: 
BUFFALO TRADERS P.O. Box 780522 Wichita, Kansas 67278 
I 
states, thousands of miles away. 
The verdict and sentencing were expected by Saturday. If found guilty, Alves da Silva, 54, and his 23-year-old son, Darci Alves Pereira, would face a sentence of 12 to 30 years in prison. 
Mendes was ambushed Dec. 22, 1988, in the yard of his home in this remote western Amazon town, 2,650 miles northwest of Rio de Janeiro. 
On Wednesday, Alves da Silva denied accusations he had ordered his son to carry out the shooting. 
Prosecution lawyer Sueli Bel­lato said Genezio would testify Alves da Silva had ordered the deaths of several local men. Their bodies allegedly were doused with fuel and burned in a field on the Parana ranch seven miles from Xapuri. 
Genezio, a shy youth with brown curly hair and a distant 

Darci Alves Pereira, right, the main defendant in the murder trial of slain rain forest advocate Chico ~endes,
relation by marriage, is the 
sits in court with his father, co-defendant Darty Alves da Silva in Xapuri, Brazil, Wednesday. Pere1ra con­
only member of the close-knit 
fessed to the murder in the opening hearing Wednesday. His father has pleaded innocent to allegations he
clan to testify against the pa­
planned the shooting. Prosecutors say an illiterate 15-year-old farmhand has become a key witness. 
triarch. 
AP Photo 

YO DUDE! 
This HOT BABE is 22 
Happy Birth Day Kristine Gregory !! 

!J{'EW%5f!l{_'s 'Eo/£ 
Cf£ L f£ 131(.9l ry I 0 ~ 



*Lounge opens at si:( o'docf.:. 
* P'R]M'E 1(!1J '])l'J{_'J{_'£'1{-served at eiglit o'clock._ *Live entertainment aru£ dancing 
*:Midnigli.t 'J.{f.w ?'"ears toast aru£party favors 
*Continental 'Breaifast 6egins at one o'clock._ 
only $35/person -call now for your reservation 1345 N. Ironwood Drive, South Bend 289-P 0 L 0 

(219) 67 4-9806 
;o~ 
Barb Johnson
~ 
Osceola, IN 46561
\~~) 

JOHNSON SECRETARIAL SERVICE Pick-up & DeliflerlJ 
Typing /Word Processing 
Medical Transcription 
Business Reports 


FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14 5:00 -6:30 PM JACC ICE RINK 
REFRESHMENTS 

A VISIT FROM SANTA CLAUS 
FUN FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY 
FREE SKATE RENTALS WHILE THEY LAST 
EVENT FREE OF CHARGE 
t >
I

·,· '. ~ " ; ,. ~ ' ' .,., ~ ; .. t '! ... ! ' ~ ~ . • .. • • ~ • ~ ~ t t ' ' ! ... ' ~ ~ ' ; .-.... 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------­
page 11

Friday, December 14, 1990 The Observer 

Soviet-Israeli press conference 
AP Photo Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, right, met in Washington Wednesday. Full diplo­matic relations between the two countries were not resumed. 
Rebels defeat battalion of elite 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) -The guerrilla army's rout of more than 200 elite in­fantrymen demonstrates the low morale of government forces, an insurgent leader said Thursday. 
The defeat of the army troops set ofT a round of finger point­ing among members of the army's ground and air forces, who each blamed the other for the defeat. 
More than two companies of the Bracamonte Battalion, whose officers are American­trained, retreated into neigh­boring Honduras on Wednesday after 40 hours of heavy combat with guerrilla troops. 
Honduran Foreign Minister Mario Carias reported Wednes­day that more than 200 Bra­camonte troops, including about 30 wounded, took refuge in Honduras. 
Both rebel and government officers said the defeat was due in part to lack of air support. 
Government pilots have be­come extremely cautious in supporting ground troops since Nov. 23, when the guerrillas shot down a warplane with a surface-to-air missile for the 
· first time in the 11-year war. "This tremendous licking (of the Bracamonte) is a political disgrace for the government of Alfredo Cristiani and a military shame for Col. Rene Emilio 

Ponce," El Salvador's defense 
minister, said the clandestine 
rebel radio station on Thurs­
day. 

"Elite troops trained in the 
United States had to take 
refuge in Honduras in light of 
their inability to fight our 
forces," the rebel radio said. 

Combat had raged since Tuesday in the northern province of Chalatenango, which borders Honduras. The fighting is a part of a rebel of­fensive that began on Nov. 20. 
Guerrilla commander German Serrano said the rebel victory "illustrates the tremendously low morale of the army and the air force." 
Interviewed on rebel radio in Chalatenango, Serrano said: "The air force could not rescue them, so they were abandoned. It's no longer a matter of com­bat morale. It transcends morale and takes on an aspect of political crisis surrounding the army." 
Serrano claimed the insur­gents inflicted 150 casualties, including dead and wounded. He said they took 14 prisoners, including three seriously wounded who were handed over to the Red Cross. 
At a news conference in Tegucigalpa, El Salvador's am­bassador to Honduras, Sal­vador Trigueros, described the Bracamonte soldiers' move into 
Honduras as a "tactical re­
treat." 
Repatriation of the stranded 
soldiers began Thursday with a 
flight from Tegucigalpa to the 
air force headquarters at 
Ilopango, just east of the Sal­
vadoran capital of San Sal­
vador. 
An Air Force helicopter pilot 
conceded government airmen 
had been seriously shaken by 
the insurgents' downing of two 
warplanes and a helicopter 
since Nov. 23. But he also 
blamed the ground troops for 
becoming too dependent on air 
support. 
"What you feel when taking 
off on a mission now is com­
pletely different from what you 
felt three weeks ago," said the 
pilot, who has thousands of 
hours of combat flying experi­
ence and spoke on condition of 
anonymity. 
"Now it's Russian roulette. It's 
like we're about to have a 
fistfight, and you pull out a pis­
tol," he said. 
The pilot added that the in­
fantry had "become spoiled 
with regard to air support. 
When they don't get it, for 
whatever reason, they lose 
much of their effectiveness." 
An infantry lieutenant just returned to the capital after 40 days of operations in Chalate­nango contested the airman's allegations. 
The officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said his troops went hungry at times and were low on ammunition because helicopter pilots feared landing in zones where rebel anti-aircraft fire is likely. 
The rebels' latest offensive is designed to oblige the armed forces to make concessions during U.N.-mediated peace talks tentatively set for late De­cember, according to their leaders. 
The campaign has killed 342 people since Nov. 20, according to the army. 
IMMIGRATION LAW PRAOICIONERS 
Poul Catherine 
GRESK SINGLETON 
1800 INBTower In~, IN 46204 (317) 634-9777 
lnilial irHiffic:e consultation nuharge 
~~ 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY JENNIFER WILMOTH 21 ALL OUR LOVE MOM, DAD, MARK  
ADVENT & CHRISTMAS AT FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH SUNDAY OPPORTUNITIES 8:45AM Celebration worship Service (45 min) 9:30AM Refreshments in the Gathering Room 9:50AM "Sojourner" Sunday School Fellowship 11:00 AM Traditional Worship Service (1 hr) CHRISTMAS EVE SERVICES "Family Celebration" 7:00PM "Candlelight Celebration" 11:00 PM First United Methodist Church-333 N. Main (across from Burger King) WE.RE HAPPY TO PROVIDE TRANSPORTATION Call us during the week at 233-9463 (Mon-Fri, 8am-5pm)  
SendS 19.95 • SJ 00 s&h lo Non Slip Producta, 18205 W. Clarendon Ave., 



ICE WALKER CLEATS 
EASY SLIP ON-OfF FOR CASUAl SHOES OR BOOTS PERFECT FOR ICY SIDEWAlKS 
No one wants to suffer the pain. loss of mobility and Doctor bills lhal can result from • fell on ice. Theae uniquely designed cleats are the safe & economlcalenswer· Ice gtipplng heel & toe plates wllh serrations attached by e rubbelr 

f"j~IJ-t strap that stays flexible In cold weather 
lllchfield Park. AZ 853~0 Pluae SfHICily Moe or boot rlze Allow 2·3 
WHir$ lor deli.,.ry 
SltAKS~ PRIME RIB~ ~(,1
SEAFOOD r::ICEL:) 
~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday Brunch 100 Center-Mishawaka 219-259-9925 


Viewpoint 
page 12 Friday, December 14, 1990 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor News Editor ....................... Keiiey Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor •••••...••••..•Michelle Daii Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ••••••••••••.••••.•.•Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor.••••••...•••••••Coiieen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .•••••••••••••••••..•....Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director.................. Michael Muldoon The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to ail members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged.  
 

LETTERS 

ND needs to shed billboard image by focusing on social concerns 
Dear Editor: Next year, there is no official Dame stands for the student­team into a huge marketing face it: when Notre Dame 
As in recent years, the college bowl invitation date. Therefore, a thelete, higher education, gimmick. football talks, the countrybowl lineup this year is blessed as of Jan. 2, bowl committees moral values and social justice, Next year, Notre Dame should listens. with a multitude of corporate can begin lining up next year's not mega-corporations. Notre refuse to play in any corporate 
sponsored games: the Mazda bowls, without any reference to Dame has proven it can single­sponsored bowl. A bold move, Theodore E. Mandell Gator Bowl. Domino's Pizza records, rankings, etc. Without handedly change the face of perhaps risking the loss of Asst. Professional Specialist Copper Bowl, Poulin Weedeater a regular season contest televised football with the NBC thousands of dollars, but maybe Dept. ofCommunication and Independence Bowl, and the list scheduled between them, a deal. Now, it can change things a move that won't lose revenue. Theatre goes on and on. huge bidding war will for the better by reversing the Instead, it may restructure the Dec. 11. 1990 commence for the services of corporate blitz. post-season games in the same 
This may be of little one game, Notre Dame vs. way that the NBC deal has significance to many, but think Miami. Corporations will dish Notre Dame should begin this changed the conference about what has happened here. more and more money out as year by refusing to wear alliances of many colleges. Let's Corporations have guaranteed enticements. Major bowls may Orange Bowl emblems on their bowls millions of dollars in drop affiliations with uniforms that bear the name of Limiting photographs in exhibit exchange for endless conferences just to get that the corporate sponsor, Federal advertising on television and game. Express. Instead, they should violates constitutional rightsthrough souvenir merchandise. They may even create a new wear emblems representing a For example, Notre Dame fans bowl game, just for these two social concern that this have advertised the Sunkist teams. The Catholics vs. University supports. I suggest a 
Dear Editor: did they judge it to be so? I am 
company on their chests for the Convicts Bowl. (No, that name "Remember the Homeless" Recently, I attended the exhi­sure that the Supreme Court past three years since the won't work). How about, the emblem. That would redirect bition of Rolling Stones pho­
would be interested in knowingSunkist Fiesta Bowl national Silver Bowl. Oops, forgot the our attention toward an im­tographs, which was both in­how these people came to this
championship T-shirts were corporate sponsor. The Sony portant social concern of the teresting and informative. 
decision, since even they havesold. With this being the second Silver bowl. The game will be University while at the same Spending time viewing each not been able to come up with a
consecutive trip to the Federal played in the Pontiac time making a subtle statement photograph allowed me to for-universal standard on obscen­Express Orange Bowl, Silverdome. They'll play the against corporate sponsorship. 
mulate a personal opinion of ity. Besides, isn't freedom ofovernight mail delivery has game the day after the New The University of Iowa each one. I was puzzled, how­expression a right protectedacquired a duo of spokesteams Year's Day bowls. Television football team has made a ever, when the photograph of under the First Amendment? Or in Colorado and Notre Dame. ratings will be higher than the similar move by placing an Janis Joplin was nowhere to be does it only apply when it suits Are we a university or a Super Bowl. "ANF" logo on their helmets, found. When I inquired as to people to observe it? 
billboard? Perhaps we should standing for "America Needs the photograph's whereabouts, Those wishing to judge forscale down our public I suggest Notre Dame resists F a r m e r s " I was directed to the Office of 
themselves the artistic value ofaffiliations with corporate this temptation before it occurs A small gesture, but one Student Activities. At the Office, this photograph can go to the
America and, instead, use our and begins a new trend away which gains national attention I asked to speak with the coor­Reserve Book Room of theincreased television exposure in from corporate sponsored bowl and which is certainly more dinator of the exhibit. Their re­Hesburgh Library and ask for a more positive manner. games. Why? Because Notre palatable than turning the sponse to my inquiry was that 
Rolling Stones: The Argument against priest employs patriarchical reasoning the photograph had not been Photographs under R. Compare
displayed because of its nudity. the photograph of Eddie I was surprised to hear this
rhetoric, are sufficient proof profit us to thrust off one Murphy grabbing his genitalia 
Dear Editor: response, especially since there on page 51 and John Lennon
that something much different "patriarchy"-one set of Is it so hard to see what J. than reason enters in here. For "authoritarian, propagandistic" were other photographs dis­with Yoko Ono on page 32, both 
Michael Leger is up to in his instead, Leger very easily-too playing nudity or lewd gestures. of which were left in the show.
power structures-only to 

"tirade" against Father easily-takes the intellectual This does not mean that I feel All of you with a curious nature
establish another in its place?

O'Connor (The Observer, Dec. these photographs should have had better get over to the
and moral "high ground" And even in the best construal, also been removed. On the con­
7)? The question is not who against what he calls a clueless in Leger's world picture reason Reserve Book Room quickly
trary, I believe that one must be

has the better argument, but priest, who is "patriarchical," itself is and must be authoritar­before those who pulled the 
who can abuse his opponent exposed to different types of photograph from the exhibit
"phallocentric," ian-it too is, in a word, patri­
the most. But as he accuses "propagandistic," and works in order to make an in­pull the book from the shelf. Or
archical. So if it comes down to 
formed decision as to what he

Father O'Connor, Leger, "uncritical." If only reasoning a choice; who should we call does censorship stop at book himself, shows us little reason were so easy. "Father"? or she considers art. banning? to discount O'Connor claims. Perhaps those who decided to Carolyn Daly 
Just the length of his response, If abuse (i.e. power) is really remove the photograph sought Howard Hall 
Mark Smillie 
to protect me from an overly

as well as the style of his at the base of it all, what will it Off-campus Dec. 10, 1990 
sexual piece of work, but how 

DOONESBURY 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he imagined, he will meet...success.' 
Henry David Thoreau 
Viewpoin·t

Friday, December 14, 1990 page 13 
Policy of 'forceful' nonviolence cre_ates new options for world leaders 
small town share similar , the simple Christian ideal, Andre Trocme has provided do" leave me unfulfilled with
By Hugh Mundy 
beliefs and ideals, Trocme is · "Love thy neighbor," Trocme me with historical information their pointless rhetoric. The World War Two era is the force which bonds the develops the idea of regarding the political and President Bush is equally generally regarded as the most community through his selfless nonviolence into a way of life social aspects of World War mystifying, as he cannot seem destructive period in modern behavior and leadership for his community. Two in France. Moreover, to justify (or even list) reasons history. Events such as the ability. Of all the values held by Hallie's work has helped for occupation. However, by bombing of Pearl Harbor, the Trocme, I am most impressed However, nonviolence does develop and strengthen my considering Trocme's policy of use of atomic weapons, and the with his unique policy of not mean inactivity. On the personal beliefs concerning a "forceful" nonviolence, a senseless annihilation of Jews nonviolent resistance. contrary, the pastor's ethic re­disturbing current event: the wealth of new options evolves. by the Nazi regime give quires tireless labor and a re­Persian Gulf crisis. For Concepts such as economic startling insight into human­Until reading Hallie's ac­fusal to back down in the pres­months, I have been searching sanctions, as well as a multina­ity's violent capabilities. . count, I had always considered ence of an aggressor. The cul­for a means to express my tional peace keeping force pacifism to be a glorified ex­mination of Trocme's staunch concern regarding U.S. without offensive weaponry, 
Occasionally, however, mate­pression for indecisiveness. To morals is shown in his hesita­occupation in the Gulf. I appear much more plausible rials surface which provide an me, the term simply indicated tion to flee Le Chambon even certainly do not advocate the using Trocme's ideal of paci­affirmation of humanity amidst a lack of motivation coupled after learning of several use of force by the American fism. His simple philosophy the wartime atrocities. For ex­with intolerance for any threats on his life. His desire to military, but, nevertheless, I based on the ancient Christian ample, Philip Hallie's "Lest aggression. I believed that aid his "neighbor" in the face believe Iraq's unprovoked ag­ethic surely merits considera­Innocent Blood Be Shed" tells a pacifists, although honorable of death presents Trocme as a gression is intolerable. For this tion from present day world story of Le Chambon, a French in their peaceful ethic, "Christ-like" figure who pos­reason, I have remained some­leaders. community which served as possessed nonviolent sesses the strength and power what confused about the situa­protection for Jews during the tendencies due to cowardice to uphold his Christian views tion. Noted pacifists, such as Hugh Mundy is a sophomore Holocaust, and its courageous rather than valor. Trocme's regardless of the journalist Colman McCarthy, in the College of Arts and leader, Andre Trocme. actions certainly prove consequences. who lecture on nonviolence but Letters. Although the members of the otherwise. From an origin in Reading about the efforts of evade the issue of just "what to 

LETTERS 

Anti-alcohol activist misrepresents beer advertisers 
Dear Editor: relationship between alcohol on television, falling well This was achieved with the who promote more and more Recent Observer coverage of advertising and consumption behind nearly a dozen other help of an aggressive advertis­government intervention into 
an appearance by anti-alcohol and abuse and all have con­consumer products ing plan. With one share point our private lives, my company activist Jean Kilbourne (The cluded that there is little evi­advertising. worth 440 million dollars in re­has relied on a long standing Observer, Oct. 11) included ac­dence to support her claim. Kilbourne goes on to say that tail sales in our industry, it commitment to public aware­cusations by Ms. Kilbourne These experts included numer­the alcohol industry denies should be clear, even to some­ness and education as an effec­that Anheuser-Busch ous social scientists, a that their advertising is one with as little marketing tive way to address alcohol advertising promotes the abuse Congressional committee, a designed to recruit new savvy as Ms. Kilbourne, that abuse. This effort is embodied of our products. As Vice­former Federal Trade customers. That is a totally advertising for market share in our 8-year-old "Know When President of Consumer Commission chairperson and, false statement. The purpose of makes a great deal of sense. To Say When" campaign. If any Awareness and Education for most recently, the Department our advertising is to recruit Finally. Ms. Kilbourne gets readers wish to learn more Anheuser-Busch Companies, I of Health and Human Services. customers from competing on the anti-alcohol bandwagon about the extensive program­would like to addres!l Ms. Ms. Kilbourne states that brands, which is what must be with the usual list of solutions ming we offer in this area, Kilbourne's misinformation, "alcohol is one of the most done in a product category to alcohol abuse promoted by please contact the Department not only with regard to our heavily advertised products in which is experiencing no prohibitionists like herself. of Consumer Awareness and advertising. our society." Not according to growth. In spite of the fact that These include more Education at Anheuser-Busch 
Ms. Kilbourne's basic argu­Broadcast Advertisers Inc., and per capita consumption of government regulations Companies, St. Louis, Missouri. ment is that beer advertising organization that tracks the beer has been flat for the past against advertising, counter Stephen J. Burrows causes alcohol abuse. This level of product advertising. ten years, Anheuser-Busch advertising and higher taxes. . Wee President opinion is not and can not be The facts are that beer adver­market share has grown all presented with the Consumer Awareness & backed with any credible re­tising represents only 3% of to­steadily during this period as a promise of reducing alcohol Education search. In fact, to the contrary. tal ad expenditures annually result of consumers switching abuse. All one need do is look Dec. 3, 1990 many experts have studied the and about 1% of the total ads to our brands. at other countries who have 
tried many of these so-called Editor's Note: This letter is solutions. In each case, there in reference to a lecture given has been very little, if any, im­by Jean Kilbourne at Notre pact on the problem of alcohol Dame on Oct. 10. Kilbourne is abuse. a member of the Board of 
No one, including Anheuser­Directors of the National Busch, wants an individual to Council on Alcoholism and an abuse alcohol. However, con­internationally recognized me­trary to the anti-alcohol groups dia critic. 
Mature sense of patriotism requires intellectual, moral considerations 
Dear Editor: quires 'us to seek intellectual 
John Gerosa's letter (The consistency in our actions. If Observer, Dec. 11) presents a we are fighting for economic disturbing view of patriotism. interests, does it make sense He argues that we must not to spend billions of dollars to protest U.S. involvement in the protect the right of OPEC to Middle East because "for a continue earning billions of military operation like the one our dollars? If we want free which may take place in access to oil, why didn't we January to be a success, it takes take military action against more than winning on the OPEC when it first formed? battlefield; it requires the sup­If our goal is to protect the port from the people at home." Kuwaitis against injustice, why A more mature sense of patrio­are we so tolerant of injustice 
Dear Editor: on my behalf, the flowers and writing this. Ladies and About two months ago, a CAT the sheer quantity of notes was gentlemen of Notre Dame, we tism would require us to define in Beijing, Tibet and South 
Africa? If there is a difference

scan revealed a tumor at the a meaningful, pleasant surprise. are lucky enough to go to a success according to our moral base of my brain. I flew home finally, I have to give a great school where people are not and intellectual faculties before between the Kuwaiti situation 
supporting military action. and the others, what is it, andto Atlanta to prepare for thank you to the Notre Dame afraid to express some emotion Mr. Gerosa asks us to "review is it worth killing and dyingsurgery and rapidly became football team. Let's understand of affection. People care here 
three very important words for?
the object of many prayers, that this entire incident oc­and want those they care about thoughts and a great deal of curred prior to the Miami game. to know it. I have been fortu­which signify this fine institu­A more mature concept of love. I feel a great desire to Therefore, the only thing I nate enough to be on the tion: God, Country, Notre patriotism would not ignore thank all those responsible for asked of my doctor was a receiving end of this Dame;" then he asks us to dis­morals and intellects. Great my success and recovery. television and consciousness at experience. I can only thank regard the first and third in fa­people are worthy of respect 
First, I must thank the 2 p.m., Saturday, October 20. God for my health, my friends vor of a simplistic notion of the and honor because they strive gentlemen of Alumni Hall, He complied, and I was fortu­and Notre Dame. I pray that second. for moral and intellectual con­especially Father George and nate enough to see the Irish everyone at this University has Any consideration of the first, sistency. The U.S. is a great 
God, requires us to consider the country in that it does the
Father John. The Dogs sent me play the most outstanding an Alumni Hall, marching a beautiful card filled with football game of the year. When band, or football team with moral implications of the U.S. same; the only way it will do notes of encouragement and I returned to campus, the team whom he or she can show and action in the Middle East. We so is if we ask the questions 
support by means of a fax ma­honored and graced me with receive some love. I am j"ust must ask ourselves, is it right to Mr. Gerosa wishes us to chine the day of surgery. Next, the gift of a game ball from glad to be back under the kill innocent Americans, ignore. I must thank the Band of the Miami. I cannot express the Dome! Thank you. Kuwaitis and Iraqis before all Fighting Irish, which expressed privilege and excit(lment such a peaceful options have been rig­Mike Bailey 
Alumni Hall 

great concern for my health gift represents to me. Thank Robert Fitzgerald orously pursued? and showed amazing support you all! Dec. 12. 1990 Any consideration of the Dec. 11. 1990 
University of Notre Dame re-
for my spirit. The mass offered Now, let me explain why I am Dancing begins at 11:30 p.m. 


and continues until 5:00 a.m. 
Every Monday is jazz night. 
Cover charges are $10 Sunday­
Thursday, $15 on Fridays and 
$20 on Saturdays. 
Joe's Stone Crab Restaurant 
This is one of Miami Beach's 
most famous seafood restau­
rants, renown, as its name im­
plies, for stone crabs of all 
sizes. Joe's. opens only while its 
infamous stone crabs are in 
season, from October to May. 
Reservations are not accepted, 
and patrons are warned to be 
prepared to wait. The fare, 
however, is definitely worth 
both the wait and the price. 
Although the atmosphere is 
fairly casual, shorts and t-shirts 
are not permitted. 
The Acapulco 
Fans of Mexican food will appreciate both the atmosphere and the entrees at The Aca­pulco. The dining area is inti­mate and the service friendly and attentive. Customers can enjoy nacho chips, spicy salsa and a variety of imported beers served in frosted mugs. The fa­jitas are particularly good. 
Dockside Terrace 
Bayside Marketplace, 401 
Biscayne Blvd. 
This casual indoor/outdoor restaurant is located in down­town Miami and sits on the Bis­cayne Bay. Its exotic tropical drinks, munchies, dinners and desserts are inexpensively priced. Valet parking is com­plementary and dock space is available.' 
Bayside Marketplace 401 Biscayne Blvd, greater Miami 
This waterside mall can be found at the College/Bayside station of Miami's Metromover, right across from the Miamarina. The public transportation system which circles the city. The 235,000­square-foot marketplace features retail shops, pushcarts, restaurants, and a fast food court with approximately 30 vendors. 
Pineapple's 530 Arthur Godfrey Road, Miami Beach 
Art deco and health food fans will appreciate Pineapple's. It is both a health food restaurant and store, and is decorated in art deco pink. Dress is casual and reservations are not ac­cepted. 
Lulu's 1053 Washington Ave, Miami Beach 
Elvis fans will find their bit of heaven at this mini Graceland in Miami Beach, which shim­mers with Elvis memorabilia. All of the legendary King's fa­vorite foods are offered at this Kitschy-American restaurant-fried peanut butter and banana sandwiches, cornbread, fried chicken, peanut butter and chocolate volcano cake. Reservations are not accepted. 

weekend calendar 
f~
..·v-y 
MUSIC The Generics, Bridget's, 10 p.m. Krosen Roe, Club 23, 9 p.m. Breakup Band, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
Glee Club Christmas Concert, Stepan Center, 8 p.m. 
sa 
ay 
MUSIC After Hours, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m. New Earth Blues Band, Club 23, 9 p.m. Handel's "Messiah, ''featuring the South Bend Symphony . 
Chamber Orchestra, O'Laughlin Auditorium,~ Saint Mary's 1 College, 8 p.m. Tickets $13~75 adults, $5.7o students. l 
I 

s 
Y I i 
MUSIC Service of Lessons and carols, Church of Our Lady of Loretto, Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. 
EVENTS . Pancake Breakfast, North Dining Hall & South Dining Hall,! 11 p.m. -12:30 a.m. · · 

FRIDAY 
"Christmas Vacatlon,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m; 
UNIVERSTIY PARK EAST 
"Dances With Wolves,"1 :15, 4:45 & 8:15 p.m. ; "Three Men & a Little lady,"!, 3:05,5:05, 7:15 & 9:30p.m. "Ghost,"1 :30, 4:15, 7 & 9:30p.m. "Predator II," 1:45, 4:30, 7:30 & 9:45p.m. "The Rookie," (two screens) 1:50, 4:35, 7:30 &9:55 p.m. 
UNIVERSTIY PARK WEST 
"Home Alone," (two screens) 11 :45 a.m., 1:30, 2:15, 4, 
4:45, 6:3d, 7:15, 9 & 9:45p.m. "Prince & the Pauper" & "Rescuers Down Under," (double feature with intermission) 11:30 a.m., 2, 4:30 7, & 9:20p.m. 
. 
TOWN & COUNTRY "Misery," 5, 7:15 & 9:45 p.m. "Memphis Belle,"4:45, 7 & 9:15p.m. "Quigley Down Under,"4:45, 7 & 9:30p.m. 
100CENTER "Exorcist Ill," 7 & 9 p.m. "White Palace," 7:30 &9:30 p.m. 
~~)h Atll(fqf ~~Arrr~ ~~~ 
I ~ 
I ~ 
II 

Juicy <
Miami area hot spots 

By ALISON COCKS Editor in Chief 
isitors to the Miami 
area can indulge 
almost any whim, 
not only in Greater 
Miami, but also in 
its surrounding 

areas: Coral Gables, Coconut 
Grove, and Miami Beach. Below 
are some of the area's 
highlights: 
Penrod's 
When Irish fans travel to 

games, they like a place to con­
gregate. In Miami, the spot of 
choice is Penrod's. 
Once again, Penrod's will be the center of much of the pre­and post-game activity. The pep rally will be held here on Dec. 30, along with a New Year's Eve party beginning at 9 p.m. the following night and a post­game victory party. Located in • Miami Beach, Penrod's boasts a generous stretch of beach, a swimming pool and volleyball nets. The club features a multi­level dance floor, a laser show, ample bar space and a number of televisions. The menu is also appealing, particularly the ap­petizer selections. 
Monty's 

Located on the Biscayne Bay in Coconut Grove, Monty's Raw Bar is a well-known, popular hangout. Monty's is the site for weekly broadcasts from Miami Hurricane coach Dennis Erick­son; patrons can also find a school bus parked outside, painted in Hurricane colors and sporting 'Go Canes' on its side. The atmosphere is excellent, but since Monty's is an outdoor bar, inclement weather can hinder social activity. Along with an extensive drinks menu, a wide selection o( food is of­fered. On New Year's Eve, Monty's will be celebrating New Year's in The Raw-for a $10 cover, party-goers can enjoy live entertainment, party fa­vors, a midnight champagne toast and complimentary breakfast. On New Year's day, $1 drafts will be served all day. Valet parking is complimentary. 
Coconut Grove Area: 

Coconut Grove is a small area next to Coral Gables, and a popular one at night. Many of the area's residents 'cruise The Grove' on weekends and other holidays. Bar-hopping around this area provides an opportu­nity to see and be seen. Many people choose to drive up and down the area, and still more park their cars on the street and spend an evening sitting at one of the many sidewalk cafes and restaurants. 
Stringfellows Mayfair in the Grove, 3390 Mary St. (Coconut Grove) 
Already a hit in London, New York and Beverly Hills, Stringfellows has also become a popular restaurant and nightclub in Coconut Grove. 
BY KELL.EY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
YV 
hy. search for places to party in Miami when the Alumni Association has already taken care of it? For those studentswho want.to participate in any of the Notre Dame sponsored events, here isthe Orange Bowl weekend schedule. 
Be sure to keepin mind thil following dates andpl~s: 
Friday. Dec. 28 -Sunday; Dec. 30~ Hospitality Center and Notre Dame Bookstore South, Hyatt Regency 400 SE2nd Ave. (official Notre Dame headquar­ters)---'to a.m. until 10 p.m.; Penrod's Sunday Dee.· 30 and Monday Dec. 31. 
the Bookstore has a few ehqice items that are not avail­able on campus; including unique game shirts. Like here, the items. are not cheap. so bring plenty of cash or a credit 
"ard. ·· · 
Friday, Dec. 29 
~Junior· Orange )3owl Parade, Coral Gables....-'7 }),m. 
A preview.to:Monday's big 

page 15 

Jrange Bowl events 
Orau.e Bowl parade. 
Sqturda.y, Dec. 29 
·~s. Hyatt Regency Hibis­
cus R:oom--4 p.m. ·. 
S!Jiday, Dec. 30 . 
·~s. Hyatt Regency Hibis­
eus Room-11 a.m. 
•M!p rally/mix~r. Penrod's on the Btacb...:_7 p.m. 
Tf"!is IS a must-see! Watching the "band march down the bea h at Penrod's was a big light of last year's trip. Pl mission is free with a N e/Saint Mary's lD. 
\f y, Dec. 31 
•l\ s, Hyatt Regency Hihis" clliJ .oom--4 p.m.
•f:e·nge Bowl parade, down~ 
toWJ _ ami-7 p.m. 
If ,ou can handle the crowds~ this is well worth your time. If you prefer you can watch the 
par<\de i.n·. the Hyatt Regen.·.cy
Hlbiftus. Rool!l on a big screen Tv. . . ·. 
•Penrod's New Yearts Eve Part~9 p.m,.. • ·· 
If you didn't party too much at tire Pep Rally the night be~ forel definitely llead back to PenrJHfi on New Year's. A huge bas~plete with hat~\. noise· makers, ·champagne and danc­ing: If you want to go· a bit more fo~l or need a place to ditch 
your par~nts. trythe Alumni 
Association's New Year's Eve 
Dinner and Dance, Hyatt 
Regency Ballroom-9:30 p.m. 
to2 a.m. 
Tuesday, Jan. 1 
•Mass, Hyatt Regency Hibis~ ens Room_;ll a.m, · •Pre GanHl Tailgate. Sun Bank parking lot {n~ar sta­dium)--4 to 7:30p.m. 
Don't miss this aU-you~can~ eat feast conveniently•located within walking distance .of the Orange BowL Last year there was plenty tO: dritlk, as well as eat. Admission, '$10 with stu­dent l.D. 
•Notre 
Dame crushes Colw orado at the Federal Expres$ Orange Bowl, Orange Bowl Stadium..;....8 p.m. 

•Victory 
party, Hyatt Regency and Penrod's~fwr the game ..· 


For those students who aren't pl~nning on staying al. the Hyatt. her~ are a_ few ofthe more· reasonably priced. hotels 
•in the• Miami. International•Air~.·· 
port area. 
·· BesfWestern Miami Airport lnn, 1550 NW LeJeune Rd. 1-. 800..327..,6087. 
Holiday Inn Airport NQrth, 1111 s. Royal Poinciana Blvd~ 1~800-HOLIDAY. ' 
Quality Inn Airport, 2373 NW LeJeune Rd. 1-800-666-0668. 
Pickup of student tickets for the game will b.e at The. Hyatt Regency according to the fol~ lowing schedule: Saturday, Dec. 
29. noon to 4 p~m.; Sunday, Dec, 30, 9 a.m. to" 4 p.m:.; Mon~ day. Dec; 31, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Tuesday. Jan. 1 at the Or:: ange Bowlstarting at4 P·IP· 
Ifyou feel the urge to .attepd a sp~rtlng event other ·than the Orange Bowl. here are two that we·.suggest. The •8lo(:kbuster Bowl, featuring Penn State v~r* sus Florida State in Ft. Laud*­erdale {a 30 minute drive from 
·Miami}onFriday, Dec. 30. Also, the Indianapolis Colts (and former lrish star Anthony Johlumnl take on tbe Miaml Dolphins.Sunday. Dee. 30, A limited mimber'of tickets.for each are av.ailable through Bt1clty-LQpei (305) 3J)8'..5lOO. 
. . Final · · the> · · Associa­
tiOn w ······ ts. travel* ing eto call Ui.EHdllce • at23 : l¢t. ih~m km>w wh~t~ :/sttlyiil • · NP 
C;Ili.v ··iLand ent 
· ·.· .· · spnn$or' • shuttle 
'·: Year's ~ve if_ d~tet1nme·whel1'i m.t:Jst . :ai,~J~ated. 
BY L. PETER YOB 
Assistant News Editor 
his is the rematch that no one wanted. Well, at least no one at Notre Dame. 
ND accepted the 

on to play Colorado in the Orange Bowl, it seems, because there was no option. The policy of "play the highest ranked team available" has mandated a return trip to the Sunshine State. 
I've heard the complaints about playing in Miami for the second year in a row. From what I've heard, the· people's choice would have been the Sugar Bowl and an excuse to spend New Year's Eve in New Orleans. 
But fate has determined that ND will again face Colorado. If this match-up leaves those in South Bend less than thrilled, it has been met with enthusiasm 

in Boulder, Colorado. home of 
the CU Buffalos. Well, maybe I 
should qualify that statement; It 
has been met with as much 
enthusiasm as Boulderites can 
possibly muster. 
I spent four years of my life in Boulder as a student at CU. Most of my memories of that time are just a blur. thanks to the loss of gray mattelj I've suf­fered ·as a law student here at ND.. Enough remains, however, for me to give the students here a general idea of what to expect from CU fans in Miami. 
Boulder is a town that prides itself on being different and be­ing non-conformist. It's liberal sentiments have caused many to call it, half-jokingly, a peo­ple's republic. CU students tend to be politically apathetic, un­less provoked (not that it would come up, but don't mention CIA recruiting, South Mrica or boy­cotting Coors). 
CU considers itself a hip, trendy school. New fads are started in Boulder. By the time a trend reaches the Midwest, chances are it's already passe to the students at CU. 
This trendiness tends to put CU students out of touch with large parts of the country. "The void, the empty place," and "the place I fly over," are common references for the Midwest. 
Don't be suprised if you meet someone from Boulder and they haven't the vaguest idea of where Notre Dame is located. If they're forced, they will likely guess that ND is in New York, Ohio or Massachusetts. 
When you tell a CU fan that you go to school in Indiana, you'll likely receive a blank stare. More than likely they have never met a person from Indiana, which is good, because they'll have no preconceptions. 
On the other hand, precon­ceptions exist about Colorado. Most of the people I've met here refer to Colorado as "the place where I ski." Boulderites are not only skiers, but outdoor en­thusiasts as well. 
CU students are admittedly 

not the best football fans in the country. This may be a result of the wishbone style offense CU employs. A former classmate of mine commented last year that CU has three plays, run it around the left side, run it around the right side and run it up the middle. 
This does not make for tremendous excitement. More than once I've been in the stands of Folsom Field in the fourth quarter and overheard one student turn to'another and ask, "What is the score, anyway?" 
If you meet people from Boulder, they may not be foot-
ball-wise, but they will likely be friendly. They enjoy ,and know how to have a good time. If you get the chance, spend some time getting to know them. Just remember, whatever you do, don't mention fifth down! 
'More than a Whisper' promotes creativity 
By LAURIE BRINK Guest Columnist 
Once in a land of higher learning, a decree came forth from under the golden dome and it stated: "There shall be a Year of celebrating. And that Year will celebrate Women. And that Year will promote and en­courage the accomplishments 
and  aspects  of Women.  And  
that year is now."  
Those  who  gathered  and  
heard  this  word,  heard  so  

through many different ears. One dressed by J. Crew and hurrying to a class responded: "Terrific. Now they'll hear our point of view." 
One topped with a ball cap and hurrying to the same class, grumbled, "Terrific. Another opportunity for the radical feminists to create upheaval." 
One, be-speckled and walking with the air of great wisdom, said, "Probably won't do much good. A lot of fanfare and nothing of import." 
But there were others who heard and what their ears al­lowed them to receive was shaped not by their opinions, but by their heart. What they heard started as a whisper. 
"Perhaps," began the whis­per, faint and still far away. "Perhaps, something of import could indeed come. Perhaps something that promoted women's perspective without shooting arrows through men's. Perhaps, a forum for radical and reluctant. For praise and dirge. For poetry and prose ... 
"POETRY AND PROSE!" Sud­denly the whisper grew louder and echoed through the Mod Quad, shaking the stillness of a napping afternoon. 
When it was more than a whisper, those who heard knew what they must do. They must celebrate the year not in con­troversy that leads to empti­·ness, but in art that leads to greater understanding. But 

how? came the next question. 
"Through a solid mass of creativity," bubbled one. "A giant granite block dead center in a quad." 
The others smiled politely. Then visions of another Moses donning seasonal parapherna­lia and decorated with euphemisms skirted by their collective mind. No, a sculpture would not encompass more than one individual's concept and may invite others' non-con­structive responses. "This, " said the whisper, "must allow many to speak, create, photo­graph and draw." 
"If the block were sop1ehow multi-faceted, like a diamond ... " said one. 
"With many sides, allowing all to add their own touch," added another. · 
"Then gathering the small whispers from many. we would have work that spoke loudly," commented a third. And now the sound of their own excite­ment became deafening. This new music would spill out over the quads and throng the class­rooms. This new psalter would ring praise of women and of men. Of gender and of differ­ences. Of growing up and growing wise. 

This new endeavor would be a magazine, a diamond of paper and ink. A magazine open to all the Notre Dame community. A magazine inviting poetry, prose, art and photographs. If it could be reproduced on paper it could be submitted. 
"But when the multitude sends its expression, how will we choose one from another?" asked one. 
"We will not," answered an­other. "We will ask representa­tives from administration, the faculty, the student body, the Holy Cross community and support services to select the material to be published. That way all have equal opportunity to be read and possibility pub­lished." 
And. those who first heard the whisper called others-commis­sioners already serving with the Year of Women Committee. And these commissioners would carry the message back to their dorms. They would be the col­lectors of work and general overseers or the project. That way all would have a part in its preparation. 
But still there needed to be a nucleus-a central body which could direct and edit and solicit support for the costs of this new birthing. And so Deanna Dobrowolski and Laura Mol­lach volunteered to be editors. Coaxed and cajoled into service was the business, manager, Terry Cotter. Eager and excited came a graphic designer: Au­drey Welling. And serving as an ever-ready ear to the growing whisper, Laurie Brink would advise. 
A deadline was set: December 
12. But, alas, the burden of season found many a creative mind buried under the weight of overdue assignments. Fin­gers that once so numbly danced atop the typewriter suf­fered from knotting, cramped from overuse. But their cries for relief did not go unheard. 
The nucleus listened and  re­ 
sponded.  
"Creativity  need  not  be  

rushed. Art is not measured by time. We shall extend the dead­line. We shall slate January 23 as the final submissions date. All prose must be less than 2,500 words and typed, double­spaced. All art and photos must be mounted on 8 1/2 by 11 pa­per," said the editors. 
And all comments and queries should be sent to 326 Pas­querilla West. 
And so as the sounds of the season-the clicking of key­boards and rustling of papers, the printing of computers and the gulping of yet another drink of caffeine-drifted out over the winter scene, the whisper grew quiet for a moment. It was a pregnant pause that would anxiously await full birth. Next semester. 
''O'A' ,,,,
T=h•~
Give to the United Way. 
... 

Reflection on the life of an old rector 
Viator Grzeskowiak, a Holy 
father and spouse, protected Together. as rector and Cross Brother who retired last the innocence of Jesus and chaplain in Stanford hall, we spring after 15 years as the Father Robert Griffin Mary. were old timers growing Rector of Stanford, died very Some of my best memories mellow together. Each day's suddenly last weekend at the Letters to a Lonely God are of Vi presiding over a lengthening shadows reminded age of 68. To help the freshmen dinner table as host, feeding his us of the briefness of life. The in Stanford understand what guests as though he were trying coming of evening must have the old rector of their hall was becomes a metaphor for all the to spoil them as a Polish caused him, as it caused me, to
He was the grain of 
like, I want to share with them kindnesses and favors he did mother would. Vi must have wonder how close we were to
wheat, buried in the
the homily I delivered this week for people, without letting his paid close attention to the the darkness that would finish at Vi's funeral. earth, waiting to explode left hand know what his right biblical episodes of Jesus us like candles th'at have burnt 
having suppers He was invited
Outside the windows that into liveliness, here and hand was doing. out at both ends. 
belonged to Brother Viator in One Christmas, a Notre Dame to. Of course we never talked of
hereafter.
Stanford Hall is a wonderful alumnus sent me a check for Vi certainly took the rules of Time's winged chariot hurrying old sycamore tree that grows re-stocked since Vi left, as I $600-conscience money which hospitality to heart, and turned near, for that would have been
could tell when I checked it on
blamelessly and happy, the he wanted me to give to charity them into another metaphor morbid; but we were reminded 
world forgetting, by the world the morning of his funeral. as a fulfillment of some for the way that life should be of our mortality every time we forgot, like the cloistered nun Without those wintering penance he had imposed on lived. The guest master, read the evening hymn at in Pope's poem. Tucked into the turtledoves-or tha occasional himself. capable of serving a gracious Vespers. narrow space between the cardinals which came to pay I asked Vi to find a home for meal to his friends, is not apt Sometimes I would wait with dorm·and the chapel, that tree that flock a pastoral visit-to the money; from the report h_e to be careless in observing him for the dorm to quiet down was about all Vi could see of keep it company, the sycamore gave me later, I could see he other kinds of ritual, especially at midnight, or late on the the natural beauty of the Notre looks so lonesome I offered it had divided up that windfall to if they are religious. On the· weekends. As aging Dame campus. comfort: "Tell our guests that charity like a drill sergeant's other hand, if, as Dr. Johnson curmudgeons, the fever of life 
He loved that sycamore very St. Francis doesn't live here pay-$50 to a university said, a man is not faithful to only heated us vicariously. much, and had turned it into a anymore. Tell them, please, employee hard pressed to buy his stomach, he's not apt to be through the students we Jived sanctuary for turtledoves in from Vi and me: "Thanks for Christmas presents for her faithful to much else. with and sometimes counselled. need of shelter. All winter long, the memories.'" children; $50 to an unemployed Newman wrote the prayer for Vi was always happy to see he scattered seeds for the birds The Jewish rabbis say that janitor; $50 to some women's a happy death which I say all his day's work done; and late to feed on; and when the snow when God wants to judge a group that helps unmarried the time: "May he support us evening always found him ready was on the ground, he person's character, He looks to mothers. all the day long till the shades for the crib. Yet he would have scattered birdseed on his see how well that person tends That well-thought out list lengthen and the evening comes kept the night watch as rector windowsills. so that those his sheep. God must have gave me a bird's eye view of and the busy world is hushed until the cows came home, if he 
turtledoves could find it more thought highly of Viator as Brother Vi sensitivity, and and the fever of life is over and had been allowed to. easily. So many birds came that guestmaster and shepherd to possibly of his private our work is done. Then, in His Now he has gone to the house you couldn't keep count, though the birds of the air. Other philanthropy. mercy, may He give us a safe of the. Lord; and I'm in no great you could see .dozens of them rectors keep the campus You could find many Gospel lodging and a holy rest and hurry to join him there. I only perched on the branches of Vi's beautiful by planting flowers. images that could be peace at the last." From now wish that he hadn't left us so sycamore any time you looked Viator kept the world beautiful appropriately used to describe on, when I say that prayer, I soon, because we had planned out the window. by saving the birds. this Holy Cross Brother. He will think of Vi, because the to get together cfor more good 
This winter. with Vi gone I, however, would never have was the faithful servant waiting kind of serenity it expresses meals and some laughs and a from Stanford, the turtledoves known about it, if I hadn't to greet the master coming was present in his life as a drink or two. have not been back, though gotten up early a few times, home unexpectedly. He was the Christian who has found his On the Christmas card sometimes a hungry bird will and caught him in the act: grain of wheat, buried in the fulfillment in doing God's will. received on the morning of his show up,, like a bon vivant lugging bird-seed home from earth, waiting to explode into Seeing Vi's life in hindsight, I funeral, he wrote: "Miss the trying to crash the party at the mall; wading through liveliness, here and hereafter. realize how he relied for good times that we had Gatsby's house, not knowing snowdrifts so high, his belly­He was a Joseph-figure helping support on the Everlasting together." Now he has accepted that the party is over, and the button must have been in deep his brothers in the land of Arms, though his faith was of this better offer, which he could kitchen is closed. freeze. He kept his apostolate Egypt; and his patron was that the quiet kind that hates to not refuse. May flights of 
The bird-feeder hasn't been to the turtledoves so private, it later Joseph who, as foster-show off. angels sing him to his rest. 

Friday, December 14, 1990 The Observer page 17 
The Obsetver accepts class~ieds every business day from 10 a.m.to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline lor next-day class~s is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, induding all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

PRIVATE ROOM, $220/MO, ALL RIDE NEEDED: Housesitting Opportunity. UTILITIES, FULL HOUSE PRIV., TO OUR FRIEND JAMIE[ NOTICES WASHER & DRYER, CLEAN TO: MNBoston area 
Responsible Professional Seeking 
Available Jan-Aug '91. Call IN FLANNER 7-0-3 I Kathleen, 234-0669. HOME NEAR NO. 287-7928 for Xmas break Your Friends Sara and Erin TYPING AVAILABLE Let's not forget Jill and Karen 287-4082 HOUS FOR RENT 1 BEDRM/ONLY LEAVE: Friday after 1:OOpm
I need a ride to Cleveland on the Want to wish you the best Friday of final week. I will help with $150/MONTH; WALK TO Will pay 1/2 expense and Good luck on your tests. 
INTERESTED IN PURE, CLEAN tolls and gas $$. Please call CAMP;CALL Paul287-2159. HAPPY BIRTHDAY DRINKING WATER IN YOUR Kathie @4045. CALL: Fred@ 1650 from across the way !I OWN ROOM HERE AT NO? FOR INFO Chicago Burbs! Chicago Burbs! FOR SALE Wishing the girts of the FNA a very hey JuDe. CALL x1758. Merry Christmas and an incredible
I need a ride to the NW Burbs on ERD either Thurs night or Fri 
New Year filled with lots o' TYPING -Students! Finals & morning. I'm a great ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TICKET Schnacky! Gavin 

term papers have you stressed conversationalist and I have a wide FROM SB TO HOUSTON. love, Ten Memories from fall 1990: out?!! Relax. Here's variety of music. tapes for your LV.12121, RET. 12130. $280. 272-Casey and laura -baloney WE HAVE IT ALL! typing help. Early or last minute. $ listening pleasure. Call Robyn at 9392 OR 654-7740. -mih-ens Negotiable. Phone **LONG ISLAND BUS** 
2906 for the ride of a lifetime. I'll -when they shot two-socks 
ANGELS*AMV*ATIIC DOLLS 
234-4204. Ask for Maria or even chip in for tolls and gas! ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TICKET Seats available-$100 RT.Joni -the girts· bathroom 
BEARS*BUNNIES
leave message. FROM SB TO NEWARK N.J. 1839, Janice 2993. -the RA's room 
BASKETS*BAGS*BLANKETS
LV.12122, RET.1/15,$230 -the lake CALL JOHN X1879 THE PURITY TEST RULES! CARDS*CANDLES*
Wanted: Architect Student For 
$$FOR BOOKS Design Drawings. For More -the basement Used Texts bought and sold Did that get your attention? I -the loft CALLIGRAPHY
Info. Call 272-6085. Pandora's Books 233-2342 ROUND TRIP AIRLINE TICKET figured it would! Just wanted to tell -all things Scottish COFFEES*COCOAS corner of NO ave and Howard SB TO WASHINGTON D.C. you ONCE AGAIN that I'll miss you -aunts. aunts, aunts! CHRISTMAS DEPART 12/23 RETURN 1/13 lots next sem.! But I like it here & I love you. Merry Xmas. NOTES*COMPUTER PAPERFOR RENT $220 CAll JOHN X1592 you want to be there· we're stuck!! Tony COLORING BOOKS*CRAYONS Do what you must but KEEP IN
( LOST/FOUND I DRIED FRUITS*DRIED 
TOUCH-after all. you'll wanna KNOTT HALL IS AWESOME !!!

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY FLOWERS 
AND TRIP AIR TICKET FROM know if I ever get a 22%! Love ya ­
219-291-7153 
EGGNOG*TAFFY 
FREE TIX TO ORANGE BOWL SB TO WASHINGTON D.C. the Selective Slut THE GENERICS 
FARSIDE
LEAVE 12123 RETURN 1/13 at Bridget's 
ROOMS FOR RENT 2ND SEM. 
CARDS* BOOKS* MUGS
Sorry -I have none -but I wanted 6-7 BDRM. HOME. INDIVIDUALS $220 CALL JOHN X1592 hey JuDe Friday, December 14 
GREAT GIFTS*GOURMET
to get your attention! I LOST a OR GROUPS. the last jam of the year!l 
HEAVENLY HANDCRAFTS
medium-sized silver crucifix For Sale -new Macintosh SE MERRY CHRISTMAS to 3rd Floor THE GENERICS earring. Since it doesn't seem to I'm graduating in December and Siegfried!!! INCENSE*IRISH be in my room, it's probably on first PRIVATE ROOM FOR GRAD still don't know or care how to use SWEATSHIRTS 
232-1776. 
it. Great Shape! No printer Mike Richardson and John Kroepfl JAX*JOLLY GOOD TYME 'brare, Hayes-Healy, or Siegfried. SHARE KITCHEN & COMMON though. $350 or best offer. CALL like to dress as Santa and put little BULGER· The man who defined KEEPSAKES*IC!II* 
floor STUDENT, UTILITIES. $200/MO. HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY MATT 
It looks cheap, and it WAS, but it ROOMS WITH FIVE OTHERS. 284·4390 -ask for MARY. girls on their laps. Their roommate MIA. Will II be Missing In Action KALEIDOSCOPES has MUCH sentimental value. gets chicks anyway. Tom Gibbons tonight?
232-8444 noon-6. LOTIONS*LAMBS*LICORICE 
Please call 4832 if found. Reward U need 1 way plane ticket 1/15/91 plays Milli Vanilli in the shower. Tim 
MISTLfTOE*IIIIAURA*MUGS 
offered. Thanks!!!! from Newark or Cleveland to Rogers is stil unemployed (yes. HAPPY BELATED 21ST
LG. BEDROOM IN LG. HISTORIC 
NOTE CARDS*NUTS* HOME DOWNTOWN. 
SoBend, call4800. Cheap!!! still.) BLAIR O'CONNOR WILL BIRTHDAY KELLY SMITH 
NECKLACES
HELP! I STILL HAVEN'T FOUND AVAIL. JAN. 1. 289·4383. NON­SPEND HIS 21ST BIRTHDAY IN love. 
OH! ORNAMENTS
MY KEYS. SIX KEYS PLUS BIKE NO CLUB BUS TIX TO ROCH, NY THE STALL ALONE. WITH A everyone
SMOKERS ONLY. 
PAULA*PILLOWS*PHOTO
LOCK KEY ON PLASTIC l: 12121. CALL 289-5807 RUBBER DUCKIE AND SOME ORANGE NEAR N.D comfortable, secure MOZZERELLA CHEESE (grated, Louise. Alicia, Bridget, Kevin. ALBUMS "NIKE" KEYCHAIN. IF FOUND. apt: 1 bdrm -$255 ZENITH Computer of course.) Brian. Ben. Matt-the-birthday-boy, QUAINT MINI QUILTS PLEASE CALL BRYAN x4521 dep., references 616-483-9572. 20 K Hard Drive Dave. Jim and last, certainly the RED RIBBONS*ROIE FOR REWARD!!!! 2 Floppy Disk Drives To the Fishermen of the 4th least Alese, good luck on finals, SACHETS*SHAMPOOS*SOAP 
CAMPUSVIEW APARTMENTS Asking $600. floor (and B.C.): have a Merry Christmas and STOCKING . LOST @ SIEGFRIED-FISHER 271-9314 We wanted to thank you for Happy New Year. STUFFERS*SECRET SANTA FORMAL. FULL LENGTH NAVY a great 1st semester ! love. Chris
RESERVE YOUR APT. FOR NEXT TOYS*TINS*10 CENT CANDY COAT. CALL 283-4909. MERRY CHRISTMAS P.S. Sorry, no Christmas presents.
YEAR. CALL 272-1441 . 
TRAIL MIXES
TICKETS
REWARD!!!' and 
UPS* UPS* UPS
A POMPATOUS NEW YEAR! KAREN JURGENSONCooperative household seeks 

VICTORIAN
ORANGE BOWL TICKETS Love. Your b-day is over break. jacket with fluorescent blue CALL (BOO) 226-8499 A. H. and N. Go nuts! Go crazy! Go wild! 
I lost a black "Sun Ice" ski roommate. Near campus. cheap, 
DOLLS*ORNAMENTS*V~C
fun. 232·3330 
WAX POTPOURRI*WREATHS
and red stripes and a blue It's time to celebrate! inner lining. If found please SKI BRECKENRIDGE ORANGE BOWL TIX ETI. call Phil at x1436. 317·879-8497 Merry Christmas and Happy New 21 only comes once
CONDO · sleeps 6 28 Dec· 4 Jan Year!!! I wish we could celebrate You're legal until time ends. X-TRA NEAT STUFF $90 a night AVAILABLE: ONE ROUND-TRIP together. (Hypo· (That means you'll buy for us ! 100 DOLLAR REWARD ! Fully Equipped AIR TICKET, CHICAGO TO thetically speaking ... ) I'll miss you!! b/c we're your underage friends!) Lost Wallet property of Eduardo CALL NOW-Cynthia 283·1348 LONDON. 26 DEC. TO 8 JAN. love. DOE!! 
ZIP CODES AND ZONES FOR 
Bocock. Contains vital PHONE 233-3745. Me Lynn. Maura, Beth 
UPSi 
Documentation. Urgent! FEMALE NEEDED TO SHARE Please call 272-6562. No BRAND NEW CONDO AT ORANGE BOWL TICKETS · good Questions Asked. OAKHILL! seats. cheap $65-total of 40 left -Starting Dec. 26 do not miss the Sarah,
YOUR OWN BED/BATH. FREE LAUNDRY AND guaranteed delivery · 303-674-DAILY BIKINI CONTEST-Miami Thanks for being the greatest 
THE COUNTRY 
FOUND...brown tortoiseshell PARKING. CALL: 288-0792 0450, mssg. HURRY. Style!! at PENROD'S BEACH roommate this semester. I will miss glasses between Farley and CLUB. the Official Notre Dame you muchly when I'm starving in HARVESTER 
B.P. about 2 wks. -ago. x-4023 3 BEDROOM HOUSE, 25 ORANGE BOWL TICKETS Party Headquarters, Miami Beach. Leningrad and freezing to death. I BASEMENT, GARAGE. VERY CHEAP -NOTRE DAME Watch the babes on the beach!! #1 know you'llleave the window open LAFORTUNE LOWER 
18195 BULLA RD. SIDE Ocean Drive. Miami Beach, in the room all winter in sympathy. LEVEL $41 0/MONTH 256-9500 1-5. M-F 12-5
WANTED I 303-442·8946. (305) 538-1111. Good luck getting into the (warm climate) grad schools of choice for 
SAT. 11-2
AIDE NEEDED: 2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 MINUTES next year, you psych goddess! Red FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON PERSONALS and green are the coolest. Do you 239-6714 TO: MNBoston area 425 MONTH+DEPOSIT Starting at noon, Daily BEACH think there will be any tuna of for Xmas break 232-3616 hiag PARTIES at PENROD'S BEACH ducks in the Soviet Union? Or the CLUB. the Official Notre Dame Bahamas. for that matter? Have a LEAVE: Friday after 1:OOpm HOUSES AVAIL. FOR 91-92 YR. ORANGE BOWL SPECIAL Stay Party Headquarters. with live great time lazing on the beaches share 1/2 expense 5-6 BDRMS. REASONABLE on your own private yacht for only bands, BBQ on the beach, animal and sending me lots and lots of $28.50/pp/day. raft races in the pool, limbo 
RATES. 232-1776. postcards (hint). I will miss you, but•.!:==========:...~ 
CALL: Fred@ 1650 Special Air Fares, too!! contest, All U Can Eat Stone you know the mail works (write to 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, Call Easy Sailing for details Crabs. and the one and only...3PM me!) or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, turn., 1 (800)780-4001. BIKINI CONTEST -Miami Style!! Love, 
#1 Ocean Drive, Miami Beach, 

washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or Catherine 
~~.-::
... 

••• TARA MCDONALD ••• (305) 538-1111. 
1 or 2 fem. roomates for next 288-5653 
semester in house-very cheap JIM Kelly 234-5140 call by 12121 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, HAPPY BIRTHDAY to you on The past 3 months with 
~~ 

or 2 bedrm. house. Safe. turn., January 7. KM you have been the best! 

PATfitS

washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or Most Experienced One: Thanx for always being there. NEED RIDE back to midwest from 288-5653 LOVE YOU VERY MUCHI
••• TARA MCDONALD ••• 
0 "2~-S~.F_!!.~VOI? 

the Orange Bowl. $$$ Top Ten Quotes from Quad '90: Merry Christmas 
-.._ 

Dylan 271-1773 after 6 love,lisa 
rn~.;!~r"i""fur$8":'99­
BILL ROSEMANN: This is your life! 10. Are these your shoes? 
1 

(well, your birthday ad at least). 9. Hey, no withholding pertinant l save over $2.50 IA furnished room for Grad or 
1 l'lck onv two Gourm., S.ndwtch., I
GREAT OFFER!!!!! Sr. $150/mon. including utilities Goose, have a splendiferous information! 1 two Gordon S.lods, plus yow choice ot and laundary. Call272-1869. celebration of the advent of your 8. Bonk! ADOPTION: If you are pregnant I French Frieor Onion Ring:< •nd ' 1 Need ride back to NO from Bait., angst-ridden life. I wish you 7. It's my American duty to vote! and can't care for a child right no1111 1expires 12/31/90 Min•-sund•"' _J DC, or Northern VA area after Single 2-Room Apt. countless days free from 6. You mean YOU know how to please consider adoption. We car..,_____.. ------­
break. Willing to pay for·your $125 w/ util. tormentation by crazed squirrels, check the oil! pay medical expenses and help I Sundae 
I

and nights when you won't be
expenses BOTH ways. 15 min. walk from Campus 5. Butthead!!! with other need~. We are. two NO I 99rt picking thorns from your skin. 4. You've got information written 
Chris X1235 Bobx3234 alumm who can t have children an 1 Buy any size sundae and Salutations and birthday greetings all over your forehead! 
have been happily m'·' •ed !:>r 13 1 · 1 second one of the GREAT OFFER!! !II A quaint studio in lovely old to my one and only 3. You mean Thanksgiving is years and can offer a ioving home I rece~.:me size for 99( · I goosemann .... love, mo. ALWAYS on a Thursday!
mansion 1/2 mile from campus 225 Please call collect 317 255-8701. l:!~~!~,!'!__ J
2. I can feel my chest pressing 

plus deposit please call 2888595 against the floor! 
Wanted: Ride from Central New TUTS and FLO: happy ho ho day 1. How many ways are there to For sale VW GTI '84
WANTED: FEMALE Jersey back to campus after break. UPPERCLASSMAN TO SHARE for INFO. call255-2719
to the more perverse 213 of our get P__ Breath? disgusting threesome. thanks for a
Call Nimi X4086 VERY NICE FAMILY-OWNED great, smut-filled semester. love We will be at NO.
HOME IN SECURE •••• CINCINNATI and sloppy kisses (as flo would and MONDAY SPECIAL 
NEIGHBORHOOD. 7 MINS. say)-MONY You will be aBROAD $10.00 OFF PERM & HAIRCUT
FROM CAMPUS. $260/MO. 
I desparately need a ride to UTILITIES INCL. 234·5316 OR COSIMO'S SHAPES & LINES Cincinnati on the friday of final 234-7587. love Always, 277-1875 week, and will certainly help with Jumpin' Joe Moody, Pete's Loftus The Oldest. The Youngest. and (Mondays Only) gas $. Please call Kristen and Yob, Paul, Brad (Chip), The Shortest!!!
CLOSE TO CAMPUS TWO Siobhan, Christine, Mike. Kev. NEED RIDE TO /FROM PITT FOI 
McDonald at x2927. 3 BEDROOM HOMES WITH Frank. Max. Colleen. and Alicia: XMAS $ JOANNE 1275
WASHER AND DRYER CINCINNATI •••• You are the very reason this news
232-3616 dept. exists. the heartbeat that "Hello. I'm the Church Lady and Krista Hood-I need a ride to Philly area FEMALE ROMMATE NEEDED sustains our life. or something like this is 'Church Chat'...... Good luck on exams and have a for x-mas break. Please!!!! FOR that. have a super vacation. free of I mean, the Commencement great Christmas! 
late-night lectures. systems errors. Speech." -Margaret Steinfels Happay Holidays, 
Call Kathy x4238 CAMPUS VIEW APT. CALL and tuts, flo and mony. we love you N.D. Graduation. 1991 Your KK even if you hate us. see CLASS I page 19BRIGID #2628 
r 
( 
1 
l page 18 Scoreboard 
Friday, December 14, 1990 
I NBA STANDINGS l EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Atlantic: Dlvlalon 
j 
w L Pc:t GB Booton 17 4 .810 Philadelphia 14 7 .667 3 New York 9 11 .450 7 112 New Jersey 8 12 .400 8112 
Washington 6 14 .300 10 112 Miani 5 14 .263 11 
Centrol Dlvlalon Milwaukee 15 7 .682 Detroh 14 7 .667 112 Chicago 12 8 .600 2 Cleveland 10 11 .476 41123 Atlanta 9 1t .450 5 Charlotte 8 12 .400 6 Indiana 8 14 .364 7 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Midweat Dlvlalon 
w L Pc:t GB San Antonio 12 5 .706 Ulah 14 7 .667 Houston 12 9 .571 2 Dallas 7 11 .389 5 112 Minnesota 7 13 .350 6 112 Denver 5 16 .238 9 
r~· Orlando 5 17 .227 9112 
Poclflc Dlvlalon Portland 19 2 .905 Phoenix 12 7 .632 6 
Golden State 13 8 .619 6 LA Laker~~ 11 7 .611 6 112 LACIW&rs 10 10 .500 8 112 
l 
Seattle 8 13 .316 12 Sacramento 4 15 .21t 14 
Thuradoy'a Gomea Atlanla 106, New Jer~~ey 97 New York 87, Minnesota 76 Phoenix 125, Orlando 114 Utah 141 , Denver 126 Golden State 129, Seattle 106 Sacramento 100, Portland 88 
Frldoy'a Gomea San Antonio at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. 
Mlarri at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. Detro~ at Booton, 8 p.m. Houston at Washington, 8 p.m. LA Clipper~~ at Chicago, 8:30p.m. 
J Dallas at Portland, 10:30 p.m. 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrlc:k Dlvlalon 
1... 
w L T Pto NY Ranger~~ 18 tt 5 4t PhHadelphla te 14 3 39 W•hlngton 18 t5 0 36 NewJer~~ey 16 t3 4 36 Plllsburgh 13 16 3 29 NY lelandera 10 17 3 23 
AcMml Dlvlllon Booton te tO 4 40 Montreal t6 t4 3 35 Hanford 13 t5 4 30 Buffalo 10 13 7 27 Quebec 7 20 6 20 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norrie DIYielon 
l 
w L T Pta Chicago 22 tO 2 48 St. Louis t8 9 4 40 
Delroil 15 t3 4 34 Minnesota 9 18 6 24 Toronto 8 24 1 t7 
Smythe Dlvlllon Calgary t9 tO 4 42 Los Angeles 16 9 5 37 Vancouver t4 15 3 31 Edmonton 12 15 2 26 Winnipeg 9 t8 7 25 
Thuraday'a Gamea Boston 8, Hanford 2 Detro~ 5, Quebec 2 
N.Y. Islander~~ 2. Phllade~ia 2. tie Plltsburgh 9, New Jersey 5 Chicago 5, Winnipeg 4 St. Louis 4, Minnesota 2 Calgary 4, Los Angeles 1 
Frlday'a Gamee Pittsburgh at Buffalo, 7:35p.m 
N.Y. Ranger~~ a1 vancouver, t0:35 p.m. 
LtO  Streok  Home  Away  Coni  
8·2  Won2  10-1  7·3  10-3  
7-3  Loot 1  t0-2  4-5  11-5  
3-7  Won2  4-6  5-5  5-7  
6-4  Loot 1  6-4  2-8  4·11  
4·8  Loo13  4-3  2-11  4-11  
2-8  Loot 5  4-7  1-7  4-10  

6-4 Lost t t1-0 4-7 t2-7 5-5 Loslt 8-1 6-6 11-1 7-3 Lost 2 5-3 7-5 6-4 3-7 Loat3 6-4 4-7 8-9 5-5 Won3 4-8 5-5 4-tO 3-7 LOllS 5-4 3-8 7-8 3-7 Lost 2 8-3 0-1t 5-9 
LtO Streok Home Awoy Coni 7-3 Won3 7-1 5-4 9-4 9-1 Won6 10-2 4-5 12-4 6-4 Wont 8-3 4-6 8-5 2·8 Won 1 4-5 3·6 5·11 3-7 Lost 1 5·5 2-8 5·9 4-6 Loo11 4-6 1-10 3·12 2·8 Loot 3 4-6 1-11 3-12 
8·2 Lost 1 11-1 8·1 12-2 
6-4 Won4 7-3 5-4 10-4 
5-5 Won 1 8·2 5-6 8-5 
8·2 Lost 1 7-4 4-3 9-6 
5-5 Won 1 8-4 2·6 8-7 
2-8 Lost 1 4-5 2·8 2-8 
3·7 Won 1 3-6 1·9 2·9 
Saturday's Games 
W•hlngton al Atlanta, 7:30p.m. 
Houston at Charlene, 7:30p.m. 
Boston at Miami, 7:30p.m. 

New York at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. 
San Antonio at Minnesota, 8 p.m. 
Cleveland al Chicago, 8:30p.m. 
LA Clippers at Milwaukee, 9 p.m. 
Phoenix at Denver. 9:30 p.m. 
Indiana at Utah, 9:30p.m. 
Dallas at Seattle, 10 p.m. 

LA Lakers at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
Orlando at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Sunday'a Gomeo Orlando at Portland, 10 p.m. Indiana al LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. 
GF GA Home Away DIY 
t30 t03 10-4-2 8-7-3 !t-6-2 121 t14 t0-7-2 8-7-t 6-8-3 
t12 tOO U-0 9-9-0 10-6-0 
129 t16 lt-3-3 !>-tO-t 8-6-2 
t29 t26 7-9-1 6-7-2 U-0 eo t10 6-8-t 4-9-2 4-8-3 
t10 tOO 8-4-2 10-6-2 8-!>-2 t05 t03 9-6-t 7-8-2 9-4-2 91 t07 6-8-3 7-7-t 6-8-3 92 99 4-4-5 6-9-2 3-7-3 92 142 2-9-4 !>-tt-2 3-!>-4 
GF GA Home Away DIY 
t16 84 tt-!>-t tt-!>-1 8-4-0 
t07 85 9-3-4 U-0 9-4-1 
t2t tt8 t3-!>-0 2-8-4 8-!>-2 
94 110 6-9-2 3-9-4 1-11-2 
88 t40 !>-t3-1 3-tt-0 4-3-t 
138 t04 9-4-1 t0-6-3 9-t-t t22 1111 tt-4-3 !>-!>-2 4-4-3 99 108 8-!>-t 6-t0-2 3-7-0 9t 88 8-7-t 4-3-t 2-7-2 tt2 t24 6-8-2 3-t0-5 !>-4-4 
Saturdoy'a Gamea 
Detroh at Phllade~la. t :05 p.m. 
Chicago at Minnesota. 2:35p.m. 
New Jemey at Boston, 7:35 p.m. 

N.Y. Islander~~ at Quebec, 7:35p.m. Hanford al Washington, 7:35 p.m. St. Louis at Toronto, 8:05 p.m. Montreal at Winnipeg, 8:05 p.m Edmonton at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m 
Sunday'a Gamea MlnnesOia at Chicago, 2:35p.m. Calgary at Vancouver, 5:05p.m. St. Louis at Buffalo, 7:05p.m. Oetrok a1 Pittsburgh, 7-:'SJ p.m. PhUadelphla at Winnipeg, 8:05p.m. 
) 
GREAT GIFT IDEA! 
SADDAM HUSSEIN says: "HIT ME!" Imprinted Top Quality Golf Balls With His Image -In Time For Christmas 

\ 
\ 


$6.95 for 3 pac or $19.95 per dozen 
(plus snipping & handling. IN res. add S'Yo sales tax) 
CALL: 1-800-832-1882 Ext. USA VISA I MC I AMEX I 8-Spm 7 days 
NFL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL AMERICAN CONFERENCE American League Eaat CALIFORNIA ANGEL5-Announc:ed thai Max w L T Pet 
Venable, outllalder, had accepted salary arbhration y-Buffalo tt 2 0 .846 ollar. y-Miaml 10 3 0 .769 CLEVELAND INDIANS-Ralaaaad Mark lndnpUs 5 8 0 .385 
Mclemore, Infielder. NY Jets 4 9 0 .308 National League N England t t2 0 .on NEW YORK MET5-Agreed to temta with Terry Puh~ outfielder, on a on&-year contract. Central ST. LOUIS CARDINAL5-Agread to lerms whh Cincnnatl 7 6 0 .538 
Gerald Perry, first baseman, on a lhree-year Houston 7 6 0 .538 contract. Pnsburgh 7 6 0 .538 Pacific Coast League Cleveland 2 It 0 .154 
COLORADO SPRINGS SKY SOX-Announc:ed the resignation of Fred Whitacre, president and Weal general manager. Kan. Chy 9 4 0 .692 
LA Raldrll 9 4 0 .692 HOCKEY Seattle 7 6 0 .538 National Hockay Laague San Diego 6 7 0 .462 
MONTREAL CANADIENS-Recalled Andre Denver 3 tO 0 .231 Racicot, goahender, from Fredericton ol the American Hockey League. NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Sent Dennis VIal, Eoat delenseman, to Blnghamlon of the American w L T Pet Hockey League. x-NYGints tt 2 0 .846 
ST. LOUIS BLUEs-Recalled Steve Tuttle, right Washlngtn 8 5 0 .615 wing, from Peoria ol the International Hoc:key Phila 7 6 0 .538 League. Dallas 6 7 0 .462 
Eaat Cout Hockey laogue Phoenix 5 8 0 .385 NASHVILLE KNIGHTS-Traded the rlghls to Michel Lenouelle, forward, to Winston-Salem Central x-Chlcago 10 3 0 .769 
HORSE RACING Green Bay 6 7 0 .462 THOROUGHBRED RACING ASSOCIATIONs­Mlnesota 6 7 0 .462 Named Morris Alhadell director emerttua. Tampa 5 8 0 .385 
Delroh 4 9 0 .308 SOCCER National Professional Soccer League Weal 
CHICAGO POWER-Placed Manny Sanchez, x-San Fm 12 1 0 .923 goalkeeper, on waivers. NewOrlns 6 7 0 .462 LA Rams 5 8 0 .385 TRACK AND RELD Atlanta 3 10 0 .23t 
U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY x-cllnched division title TEAM-Named Vince O'Boyle coach lor the t992 y-c:linched playoff berth World ChaJ'T1)1onships. 
Soturday, Dec. tS PF 373 275 
200 216 154 
292 324 
234 
20t 
314 
268 
242 272 277 
PF 285 
299 325 
t93 
206 
290 
241 297 210 301 
297 235 305 292 PA 207 t84 281 295 366 
294 
243 
200 396 
199 225 240 220 334 
PA 163 242 275 255 
308 
207 270 252 311 345 
t99 
239 346 332 Home 7-0-0 !>-1-0 2-!>-0 2-4-0 
0-6-0 
3-3-0 !>-2-0 !>-2-0 t-8-0 
6-t-0 4-2-0 3-3-0 3-4-0 2-4-0 
Homa 7-0-0 6-1-0 4-2-0 4-3-0 3-3-0 
6-0-0 3-4-0 4-2-0 3-3-0 2-!>-0 
6-t-0 4-2-0 2-!>-0 3-3-0 Away 4-2-0 !>-2-0 3-3-0 2-!>-0 t-8-0 
4-3-0 2-4-0 2-4-0 t-!>-0 
3-3-0 !>-2-0 4-3-0 3-3-0 t-6-0 
Away 4-2-0 2-4-0 3-4-0 2-4-0 2-!>-0 
4-3-0 3-3-0 2-!>-0 2-!>-0 2-4-0 
6-0-0 2-!>-0 3-3-0 0-7-0 AFC 9-2-0 8-t-0 4-8-0 3-9-0 1-10-0 
6-3-0 6-3-0 !>-!>-0 2-8-0 
6-4-0 7-3-0 8-4-0 
!>-6-0 
3-7-0 
AFC 2-0-0 t-0-0 1-3-0 t-t-0 2-2-0 
2-t-0 1-2-0 2-t-0 0-t-0 1-2-0 
4-0-0 2-t-0 2-2-0 2-1-0 NFC 2-0-0 2-2-0 1-2-0 t-0-0 0-2-0 
1-3-0 t-3-0 2-t-0 0-3-0 
3-0-0 
2-t-0 t-2-0 1-t-0 0-3-0 
NFC 9-2-0 7-!>-0 6-3-0 
!>-6-0 
3-6-0 
8-2-0 !>-!>-0 4-8-0 !>-7-0 3-7-0 
8-t-0 4-6-0 3-6-0 1-9-0 DIY 6-1-0 

6-0-0 
2-4-0 1-!>-0 t-8-0 
3-t-0 3-1-0 1-3-0 1-3-0 
4-3-0 !>-2-0 3-4-0 2-3-0 2-4-0 
DIY 6-t-0 4-4-0 3-3-0 t-!>-0 2-3-0 
!>-t-O 3-4-0 3-4-0 4-2-0 1-!>-0 
3-1-0 2-2-0 2-1-0 1-4-0 
COLLEGE Buffalo al New York Giants, t2:'SJ p.m. ARIZONA-Announced the reslgnalion of Rob Washington at New England, 4 p.m. Bernardi, football program coordinator, 10 become Sunday, Dec:. 16 assistant commissioner of the American Soulh Allanta at Cleveland, t p.m. Conference. Houston at Kansas Chy, 1 p.m. GARDNER-WEBB-Named Timothy Vaughan Indianapolis at New York Jets, 1 p.m. sports Information director. Minnesola at Tampa Bay, t p.m. JACKSONVILLE-Announc:ed the resignation of Phoenix at Dallas, t p.m. Andy Jacobs, athletic counseling director. Pittsburgh at New Orleans, t p.m. TULANE-Named Tom Peters acting athletic Seattle at Miami, 1 p.m. director. Green Bay at Philadelphia. 4 p.m. WASHBURN-Named Dennis Caryl football Cincinnati at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. coach. San Diego at Denver, 4 p.m. Chicago al Detro~. 8 p.m. Mondoy, Dec. t7 San Francisco at Los Angeles Rams, 9 p.m. 
ALL-AMERICANS 
Sporting Newa' AII-Amerlea Football Team 
Oflanaa 
Wide receivers -Herman Moore. Virginia; IamaN, Notre Dame. Tight end -Chris Smhh, Brigham Young. Tackles-Stacy Long, Clemson; Antone Davis, Tennessee. Guards -Joe Garten, Colorado; Dean Dingman, Michigan. Center ­John Flannery, Syracuse. Quarterback-Detmer. Running backs -Eric Bieniemy, Colorado; Greg Lewis, Washington. 
Delanae 
Linemen -Chrle Zorich, Notre Dame; Russell Maryland, Miami; Kenny Waker, Nebraska; Mitch Donahue, Wyoming. Linebackers ­Michael Stonebreaker, Notra Dame; Maurice Crum, Miami; AWred Williams, Colorado. Defense backs-Ken Swilling, Georgia Tech; Darryl Lewls, Arizona; Tripp Welborne, Michigan; Jesse ~II. North Carolina State. 
Speclollata 
Kick returner-Dale Carter, Tennessee. Kicker -Philip Doyle, Alabama. Punter -Brian Greenfield, Pittsburgh. 
MAXWELL AWARD 
NCAA SCORES 

EAST Alderson-Broaddus 93, Davis & Elkins 85 Auburn 75, Duquesne 7t Brooklyn Col. 10t, Concordia. N.Y. 50 Delaware 67, Wesl Chesler 62 Franklin Pierce 97, Castielon St. 78 Indiana, Pa. 103, Colurrbla Union 84 Maine-Farmington 139, Maine Maritime 74 Massachusetts 88, Westfield St. 7t N.J. Tech 96, Hunter 88 NYU 100, Mount St. Vlnoenl96 New Haven 80, American ln1l 64 Pace tt9, Medgar Ever~~ 100 
S. Connlldlcut 80, Mercy, N.Y. 61 Slony Brook t22, Lehman 63 Thiel 69, Oberlin 51 Union, N.Y. 73, Kings Polnl 55 Utica 72, hhaca 63 
W. Connecticut 75, Y eshlva 52 

W. N-England 58, E. Connecticut 42 
SOUTH Charleston Southern 85, Allen 72 Florida Southern 105, Knox 64 Francia Marion 53, Sl. Andrew's 49 Georgia St. 72, Augusta 71 Marshal 70, Ohio U. 68 Md.-E. Shore 80, Coli. of Charleston 74 Memphis St. 99, Meroer 48 Middle Tenn. 73, Belmont 55 WflkX)er 96, Warner Southern 77 MIDWEST 
Anderson, Ind. 99, Tr~State 84 Bemidji St. t07, Jameslown 72 Benedictlne,Kan. 94, onawa, Kan. 87 Concordia, Neb. 79, Peru St. 67 Dubuque 113, Cornell, Iowa 86 Ferris St. 98, Quincy 79 Findlay 90, Ohio Weslyn 79 Indiana St. 73, NE Illinois 48 Kalamazoo 100, Huntington 85 Lincoln Christian 77, Principia 76 Mac Murray 70, Illinois Col. 68 Marlon 84, Northwestern, Wis. 55 Michigan St. 65, Cincinnati 63 
Mlnnesola 73, Santa Clara 63 Urbana 93, Cent. St., Ohio 92 Washington, Mo. 76, Millikin 64 Wayne, Mich. 98, Spring Arbor 52 Wich~a Sl. 84, Drake 65 
SOUTHWEST 

E. Texas Baptisl79, S. Arkansas 77 John Brown 86, Henderson St. 73 Oklahoma Christian tOt, Bartlesvnle Weslyn 72 Oklahoma St. 89, Louisiana Tech 58 
FAR WEST 
Gonzaga 108, E. Washington 67 Pepperdine 75, Texas Tech 70 Utah Sl. 77, Weber St. 62 
Name Sc:hool Polnta TyDelmer BYU t,993 Raghlb lshmal NOire Dame t,385 Eric Blenlemy Colorado 747 
. ,.""" 
Shawn Moore VIrginia 43t 

. Touch a life. ..... 
Give to the~nited Way... 
~ 

Friday, December 14, 1990 The Observer page 19 
Classified 
continued from page 17 
MERRY CHRISTMAS ROOMIES!! 
JANET. CAROL, AND ELLEN 
HAVE A WACKY FESTIVE ­
GREEN AND RED TWINKlE 
TYPE 0' BREAK. -Kristin 
KRISTIN 
JEN 
MAGGIE 
LAURIE 
KATE 
MERRY MERRY CHRISTMAS TO MY FAVORITE FARLEYITES. LIVING WITHINEAR YOU, LOFTING WITH YOU, DINING/DRINKING/CRASHING/S TUDY1NG?/PRETENDING TO STUDY/DOWNRIGHT NOT STUDYING/WATCHING 30 SOMETHING/ COMPLAINING ABOUT NOT WATCHING 30 SOMETHING... WITH YOU HAS BEEN MORE THAN A DREAM COME TRUE. FIRE UP FOR ANOTHER FABULOUS SEMESTER. YOUR ONE AND ONLY LOVEMUFFIN-Me 
To the best sister in the whole world, Ter. Wishing you a very Merry X-mas and an even better 
New Year. Don't stress over finals ... see ya at home. Love, 
Froggy 1NEED RIDERS FOR XMAS. GOING WEST ON 1-80 AS FAR AS IOWA CITY (TO CEDAR FALLS). CALL FARIS @ 3082 
Hello, Patrick Joseph Klein. 
Mickey: over a month of bonus points and we're still here? even though i don't wear hats? i'm amazed, but pleased. wishing you lipstick-stained shirts and happy birthday and all the rest. saturday???? m
....................... 
MERRY CHRISTMAS, LADIES!!! From: 
• THE • 
·sox· 
IRISH EXPRESS to Orange Bowl Dec. 29 to Jan 2 Trip includes Round trip air from S. Bend, hotel, tix and transfers. $729 for info & reservations call 800-666-1304 or 289-8687 
POST GAME VICTORY PARTY at PENROD'S BEACH CLUB on Miami Beach. #1 Ocean Drive, Miami Beach, (305) 538-1111. 
Chris, 

Chrismas is coming for all to 
cheer, as we trudge through 
finals. knowing break is near. 
We have not much time in 
which to fill-12 days climbing that 
yuletide hill. 

So in bringing the holiday 
closer to you. each day a small 
present I'll bring to you. 
For this first day of Chrismas 
your gift shall be, 

These jolly words in verse, to 
you from me! Merry Christmas! Love, Terese 

Thanks to Shannon, Allison, Christina, Stacy, Pam. Glenn, Chris, and everyone else who made my birthday so special!! You guys are the greatest and I love you all!! THANK YOU!!! 
Love, 
Deb 

TINA THE GREAT: GOOD LUCK ON FINALS AND THEN HAVE AN EXC-ELLENT BREAK. MERRY CHRISTMAS! LOVE, KK aka Kathy 
Are you GAY or Lesbian? Feel out of place here? Do you need a friend 

to talk to? Call John and Mike at X3024 
Chris at X1789 or 
Liz at X2963 
GAY or LESBIAN? Are you lonely tonight? No need to worry about 
parietals! 
Call John and Mike at X3024 Chris at X1789 or Liz at X2963 
THE FAMILY OF BETTY O'CONNOR WOULD LIKE TO THANK EVERYONE AT NOTRE DAME FOR THEIR KINDNESS, SUPPORT & PRAYERS DURING THIS DIFFICULT TIME. THANK YOU FROM HER CHILDREN -MEGHAN. NOREEN & DANNY 
Jeanne. Tonight's the night. Genna be allright. Can't wait until I get a little "culture." Be careful with that "nutcracker." Can't wait much longer. Love. Arthur 
P.S. Don't forget the baby oil. 
To our guys at the Naugh, 
Sully, Mike. Buddy the Mighty Hunter, Hick, Schlinedog, Andrew, and last but not least Nash. Thanks for all the dances, "games", movies. drinks, parties, and good times. You're still better than 25 reasons! Wishin' ya'll a Merry X-mas and a Happy New Year' Ya'll come back y'hear? Love, 
the FNA Celebrate with me NEW YEAR'S 

EVE at PENROD'S BEACH CLUB, the Official Notre Dame Party Headquarters. Miami's Hottest Nightclub right on the beach ­Balloon drop at midnight -Special discount with Notre Dame 1.0. only $10 per student. Other fans $15. 
18 & older welcome. #1 Ocean Drive, Miami Beach, (305) 538­
1111. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY to the tall, handsome, broad-shouldered guy who kind of looks like Clark Kent. Sorry to hear that your sexual prime has ended, but from what we hear about you , we think we can work it out. 
We love you! Your Little Mermaids 
P.S. Happy birthday to you too, SCOTT WOLF!!!! 
MC2348S, ERD 
Happy Holidays to all! Love, Amy Copy Center 
Does anyone have a tape of the Thrusday, December 13 L.A. Law????? If you do, please, please please, call Lynn at 2619 
To Colleens, Good Luck on your finals. Have a great break!!! I hope Santa and Rudolph are kind to you. Just don't let the "Church Ladies" get to you !II! 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I ~ Second Semester ~ I ~ 
Take a break from studying for finals at the Grace Coffeehouse. 
Marianne. Have a great break. Don't be stupid at your Deb Dance. And, don't laugh too hard when you tall as you do your curtsey. Love, Your adorable _Roomie!!!!!!!!!! 
Jenny, Sorry I haven't kept in touch. Have a great break, and hope to see you back in Portland. · 
Rich, I'm using this space as a great big "filler ad." Have a good break but none of this "Spanky Hanky's" or whatever you call the place. Have an awesome time at Christmas, on your birthday, and on New Year's Eve. Don't study too hard on your finals either!! Love, Me 
MERRY CHRISTMAS TO THE ENTIRE OBSERVER STAFF (ESPECIALLY PRODUCTION) ENJOY YOUR BREAK AWAY FROM O'BRIEN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
The 

LSATis
~ ~ ~
I 1
Auditions for When? 
Shenanimzns 
~ 

~ Notre Dame's singing and dancing ensemble 
~ 

we·re looking for 
1) singers/dancers ~ 
2) a drummer 
3) an audio-technician (no experience necessary) 
~ 
vocal and dance auditions on s!nday' January 20th~ 
~ questions? ~ call Jamie, x3490 · Kevin or Joe, 273...9169 
~ ~
. 
i SlANLEY H. KAPlAN 
~Take l'aplan OrTake )(,ur Glance~ 
2/9/91 LSAT Prep Classes Start 1/21/91 in South Bend. 
Sign up before the holidays! 

tl 71 7 E. South Bend Ave. South Bt-nd, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 / 
P.I.M.E. 

MISSIONARIES 
Fulfilling one's life through a 
missionary vocation 
~ 

The Pontifical Institute tor Foreign Missions (the PIME MiSIIiOI'IarieS) is an intenWional com­munity of Catholic prieStS and layman who malta a lifelong commitment to continuing the mll8iOn of Jesus Christ In the modem world. we W.lhe Gospel in~. Bruit. tbl!l Kong, India, Japan, Myanmar. Papua New Guinea. Philippines, Taiwan. Thailand and WIISI Africa among the poor and unc:hurehed. 
Founded in tt.ty In 1850, a group of diOCe­11111 prialla, at the ~t of their biihopa, grww In their undarSbJndinll of just pre­cisely what God was calling them to be. A miS­sionary must be open to dialogue, prayer and selfleSS service. aspeclally to the poor. The ITIIS­IiOIWY must laam hoW to be a sign of lhared faith ba!W88n well established European and American local churcheS and peoples .Mre the Church is just beginning. The missionary must know hOW to announce the KingdOm of God while bliing a force tor transfonnaliOn of those societal values which do IICil build upthat 
Kingdom-If you are a young man betwNn 18 and 35, in good health and spirits, excited_ to live your faith in the missionary way desCribed abOVe. send in or call for information today. Fr. John J. Mallei! PillE MISSIONARIES 35750 Moravian Or. FRASER. MICHIGAN 48026 Phone (313) 791·2100 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

PHILADELPHIA (AP) -As the awards pile up for Ty Detmer so do the stories about him. 
The Maxwell Award was the BYU quarterback's latest piece of hardware and former college and NFL coach Dick Vermeil told the one about Detmer re­fusing to be turned down by his future school. 
Vermeil conducted a tele­phone news conference with Detmer, the junior who has broken 42 NCAA passing and total offense records. 
It is fairly well-known that Detmer. accompanied by his fa­ther, made an unsolicited visit to the Brigham Young campus to see coach Lavelle Edwards when he was deciding which college to attend. 
Vermeil said that what isn't generally known is that after the slim youngster told Edwards that he wanted to go to Brigham Young, the coach and his staff weren't sure they wanted him. 
"They weren't impressed with this scrawny, little guy," Vermeil said. 
Vermeil said Edwards sug­gested to Detmer, "Go visit UCLA and Southern California and some other schools. Then make up your mind." 

But Detmer rejected the sug­gestion and according to Vermeil told Edwards, "I've de­cided. I'm coming here." 
"They were stuck with him," Vermeil said. "And look what happened." 
Detmer, who was honored on Dec. 6 with the Heisman Trophy as the year's outstand­
II 
ing college player, beat the
i 
same competition for the Maxwell Award. 
II 
In a vote of 878 coaches,
!! 

I 
I' 
I 
,· 
I 
l 
il I 
l1 
page 20 The Observer 
Detmer stories, awards piling up 
members of the media and fans, Detmer finished with 1,993 points to 1,385 for Notre Dame running back Raghib "Rocket" Ismail. Colorado run­ning back Eric Bieniemy had 7 4 7 and Virginia quarterback Shawn Moore 431. Detmer was named on 830 ballots and re­ceived 4 7 percent of the first­place ballots in the 3-2-1 vot­ing. 
Ballots are sent to members of the American Football Coaches Association, the Football Writers Association of America and the nearly 1 ,000 members of the Maxwell Football Club. 
Detmer repeated his intention . to return to Brigham Young for his senior year and let the NFL wait until after he graduates. 
"First of all I made a com­mitment to the school and I be­lieve in living up to that," Detmer said. "I'm just enjoying school right now. I don't think· I'm ready to go on my own yet. There is no reason for me to leave right now." 
Detmer's statement was reminiscent of the two juniors, quarterback Andre Ware of Houston and running back Barry Sanders of Ohio State, who uttered similar words after winning the previous two
I 
AOFFLEA 
Heisman Trophys. They insisted they were going back to school for their senior year, but both changed their mind and are with the Detroit Lions. 
Detmer didn't say his inten­tions were etched in stone. 
Vermeil, former head coach at UCLA and with the Philadelphia Eagles, covered Detmer in two games this sea­son as an analyst for ABC. 
"I've never seen a kid throw the ball more accurately. Now, he's not the biggest guy. He's not the most elusive guy. He's just one of those guys who is gifted when it comes to throw­ing the football where it has to be to be completed," Vermeil said. 
"I wonder how great he would be if he only had to throw the ball 35 times a game (instead of 50 or more) and the offense ran 35 times a game. I think then it would magnify how efficient he is as a passer. He throws the ball a lot. I think he probably will be a very fine NFL quarterback." 
Detmer has broken 21 total offense and 21 passing records and tied five. This past season he completed 361 of 562 passes 
(65.6 percent) for 5,188 yards and 41 touchdowns and 28 in­terceptions. 
PHONE (219) 233-4957 

SORBIE ~~ PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
ROCCO'S STVl£ SHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR 
Friday, December 14, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Alison Lester, a member of the Notre Dame women's soccer 
team, was named a High-School All-American for the spring season of 1990 by the National Soccer Coaches Association of America. During her freshman season at Notre Dame, Lester set records for Most Goals (Season, 15) and Most Points (Season, 35). 
Joe Piane, Notre Dame cross country and track and field coach, has been named coach of the United States Pan-American ·uniors team by The Athletic Congress. The team will compete July 6 against the Canadian and Mexican squads in Spokane. Wash. The juniors will also face Great Britain and compete in the championships in Kingston, Jamaica. 
Michael Marx, assistant coach of the Notre Dame fencing team, has been named the United States Fencing Association male athlete of the year for 1990. Marx, who will compete for the U.S. in the Pan American Games in August, is a record seven-time U.S. men's foil champ and placed 23rd in the world championships this year. This is the fourth time Marx has won the award. 
Sorin won the NVA Volleyball championship Monday night by beating Pangborn 16-14, 15-12. The team, which finished the season 8-0, includes Mike Hudson, Bryan Krayer, Mike McKinnon. Jay Blount John, Mangels, Sean Goldrick and P.J. Stettin. 

We do have plans for you tonight! 
.,1~. 
J,D,N,L,K,V 



Friday, December 14, 1990 The· ObserVer page 21 
MCC elects new president 

INDIANAPOUS (AP) -Butler University president Geoffrey Bannister has been elected president of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. 
Bannister had served as in­terim president following the resignation from the position with the conference of the Rev. Albert J. DiUlio, president of Marquette University. He will complete DiUlio's term through next spring, then begin a two­year term through the spring of 1993. 

Butler athletic director John Parry was elected chairman of the MCC Executive Committee of Athletics, and Butler senior associate athletic director Mary Ann Rohleder was elected chairman of the MCC Women's Athletics Committee. 
The election occurred at a meeting of the MCC Council of Presidents on Wednesday and was announced by the confer­ence on Thursday. 
Rhode Island, Providence brawl way to suspensions 

PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) -It had been so long since the Big East's fighting rule had been invoked, it almost seemed for­gotten. Almost. 
Three . players from Providence became the fourth, fifth and sixth players to be suspended under the conference rule and the first since Jan. 23, 1989. 
Corey Floyd, Marvin Saddler and Kenny McDonald were au­tomatically suspended for one game when they were ejected from last Saturday night's game with Rhode Island after a brawl which spilled into the stands and saw Rhode Island coach AI Skinner hit on the head but not seriously hurt when he tried to break it up. 
The Providence players gen­erally were considered the in­stigators. but it escalated when the Rhode Island players turned aggressive. 
Mike Brown, Andre Samuel and Mike Moten of Rhode Island also were ejected from the game, but the Atlantic 10 Conference has no provisions for automatic suspension as the Big East does. 

Rhode Island athletic director McKinley Boston said in a statement today that Rams players would have only a one­game suspension but they and the coaching staff must attend. workshops on dealing with emotional stress during games. 
If they don't attend, there will be unspecified further penal­ties, Boston said. And the re­quirement will be extended to all team sports at URI. 
"The unfortunate incident which took place on Dec. 8 during the URI-PC game should never happen again," Boston said. 
Skinner said he did not expect his players would receive more than their one­game suspension after he met with Boston on Wednesday. 
Skinner told The Providence Journal-Bulletin in today's edi­tions that he was upset his players received the same penalty as the Friars. 
NOTRE DAME 1991 COLLEGE BOWL TOURNAMENT 
1991 Mercury Tracer 
S9,386 M.S.R.P.* 
DEADLINE FOR ENTRIES IS 
December graduates, your diploma can be worth $500 to you with the purchase of anew Mereu~ And your local Lincoln-Mercury dealer can take care of the financing arrangements 
JANUARY 17,1991
through Ford Credit. To receive your $500 cash back from Ford Motor Company, just take retail delivery of any new Mercury from dealer stock by December 31,1990, and graduate with abachelor's or advanced degree by December 31,1990, from an accredited four-year college or university. Select from the all-new Mercury Tracer, or a 

SEND TEAM ROSTERS TO:
Mercury Capri, Sable, Cougar, Topaz, or Grand Marquis. You may even be able to use your $500 toward adown payment. So pick the Mercury that fit> your new lifestyle, 
DR. PETER LOMBARDO
and get $500 cash back! 
To qualify for Ford CredH preapproved credit, qualified buyers must haw verifiable employment 1eginning within 120 days of 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING 
vehicle purchase. 'tbur salary must be sufficient to CO'I8I' living expenses as well as acar paym< rrt. Aprior credH history Isn't necessal)\ but nyou have one, It must Indicate paymeots made as agreed. "Tltle, taxes, c1est 1atlon charges not Included. Wheels shown optional and must be puiChased with power steering at acombined cost al $367 
EDUCATION 
SEE YOUR LINCOLN•MERCURY DEALER TODAY! ~QualltJ'~lllJ~ob
L 

NOTRE DAME 
CALL 239-6691 FOR INFORMATION 

:.Oo::-:-oc~:-o-=-::-ooc~:-o-:-::-oc-:>O-:-o-:-::-o-:.~.:-::-:-:-:J: 


page 22 The Observer Friday, December 14, 1990 

Women's basketball to Irish icers up for east coast swingplay in tough tourney 
By RICH KURZ notching a shutout last game to and Notre Dame have met only Sports Writer lower his goals-allowed aver­once in the past, with the deci­
_il 
By RENE FERRAN Ethridge, an American South age to 3.71, while his save per­sion going to the Tigers 9-7 in jii Sports Writer Conference first-team selection Most students use the centage has risen to a superb 1985. . } last season; guard Shantel Christmas break to kick back, .855 . Army was 10-16-4 last sea­
I ~ i 
Christmas vacation will not Hardison, a heady point guard relax, and maybe take a trip. One thing the Irish need to son, but two of those wins came be a season of rest and relax­who was named Most Well, the Notre Dame hockey beware of are the post-holiday against the Irish, 7-4 and 5-2. ation for the Notre Dame Outstanding Player in the team is taking a trip this holi­blues. A rather lengthy layoff The last time the Irish beat the women's basketball team Midwest Regional last year; and day season, but it sure won't be like the one Notre Dame will men from West Point was in 
The Irish (3-3) play six games forward Annie Lockett. getting much rest and relax­have has the possibility of pro­1989, when Notre Dame won 5­over the break, including two in In the other bracket, host St. ation on its tour of the East ducing some rust. 2~ the Texaco-Hawk Classic in Joseph's (4-1) should reach the Coast. "It'll be interesting," said Philadelphia with perennial finals. The Hawks have three The Irish (8-6-1) will be play­Zadra of their first game back, The real test for the Irish will powers Louisiana Tech and St. players averaging in double ing four. games in a week "but we should be ready." come on the second half of the Joseph's, as well as Arizona. figures: Katie Curry (14.8 ppg), against some of the top hockey "We're starting off (after the trip, when they travel to New 
For Notre Dame, the holidays Rita Balaban (14.4 ppg, 40.7 teams in the country. Their layom against a team at about Hampshire an<! Boston College. could be make-or-break-it time percent from three-point next game will be on December our own level," said defense­New Hampshire's Wildcats are as far as the NCAA tournament range), and Wendy Brink (12.8 29, when they face off against man Dan Sawyer, "so hopefully 8-3 on the season and rising is concerned. Last year, its non­ppg, 5.6 rpg), as well as leading the Princeton Tigers. From we can get our legs back." rapidly, having defeated Boston conference record was used rebounder Robyne Bostick (7.0 Princeton, their journey will· Coach Schafer wasn't overly College last Friday night. New against the team in its quest for ppg, 7.2 rpg). take them to Army, New concerned about his team's Hampshire and Notre Dame a tourney berth, and with McGraw sees the tournament Hampshire, and fifth-ranked condition coming back after had common opponents in losses to UCLA, Stanford, and as an excellent chance for the Boston College. Christmas. Alabama-Huntsville. The Indiana so far in December, the Irish to gain in the eyes of the After winning seven out of Wildcats took two from the Irish must make a good show­NGAA selection committee and their past eight games, includ­"Well, there's always the pos­Chargers, winning by scores of ing in its remaining non-league the AP voters. ing a defensive gem in the last sibility that they'll eat too many 6-3 and 8-2, while the Irish slate. "I think it's a great opportu­game, a 6-0 shutout of Lake Christmas cookies," he said, won 8-7 and 3-2. 
"For us, every game is a big nity for us to finally get some Forest, the Irish couldn't ask "but I'm not too worried (about game," Irish coach Muffet recognition," McGraw said. "If for a better time to make this the team's physical condition)." Boston College is one of the 
McGraw said, "and for the NCAA tournament especially. We can't afford to lose any more games in December. We've got to start playing well and get together." 

Next Friday, the Irish finish off their current home stand against MCC rival Marquette. Even though Notre Dame has won 24 straight conference games, McGraw is not taking the Warriors (2-4) lightly. 
"Marquette's a very good team," McGraw said, "and we have not yet found our chem­istry. 
"They play Loyola Marymount-style. They run and press, and they shoot the ball real quick. They're going to shoot lots of three's. It's going to be a really up-tempo game." 
The Warriors are led by guard Courtney Romeiser (14. 7 points, 2.8 steals per game), who leads the MCC in treys per game (2.7), center Heidi Ach 
(14.0 ppg, 7.8 rpg), and Tammy Shain (12.8 ppg, 6.0 rpg, 3.0 steals). 
Notre Dame's first-round op­ponent in Philly will be seventh-ranked Louisiana Tech. The Bulldogs (3-1) are one of the top women's basketball programs in the country, finishing 3 2-1 last year and making the Final Four for the fourth straight season-winning it all in 1988. 
Louisiana Tech returns three senior starters: guard Sheila 
l H 
we play well and we win, it ob­viously would put us in the Top 25." 
After the new year is rung in, Notre Dame faces MCC rivals Detroit at home and Butler in Indianapolis, and then travels to Chicago to face DePaul. 
Detroit (3-2) is led by center Sharon Miller (17.5 ppg, 7.0 rpg) and Mandy Chandler (15.5 ppg, 8.5 rpg). The Titans are last in the MCC in points al­lowed so far this year (84.3 ppg). 
Butler (7-0) is off to its best start since the 1980-81 season. The Bulldogs' leading scorer and rebounder, Julie VonDielingen (21.1 ppg, 10.0 rpg, .585 from the field), also is pacing the MCC in both cate­gories. 
trip. • 
"We're playing really well right now," said sophomore Dan Sawyer. "Our power play is starting to click, and we're cutting down on goals (allowed). We're coming to­gether on defense." 
Junior left wing Lou Zadra echoed Sawyer's comments. 
"We pretty much have bal­anced scoring," he said. "Everybody's doing their job." 
Head Coach Ric Schafer again will be counting on his trio of talented juniors to take charge of the scoring for the Irish. So far Dave Bankoske, Mike Curry, and Lou Zadra have scored 27 of Notre Dame's 68 goals on the season. 
Freshman Greg Louder con­tinues to improve in goal, 

Some of the Irish players will have extra motivation going into this trip, as many of them are from the East. 
"I'm really excited to go out East for some games," said Zadra. "We should be able to step it up a notch." 
"Friends and relatives will get to see us play," said Sawyer. "We'll get to play against col­leges that recruited us and show them our stuff." 
The first two games, against Princeton and Aqny, are the type of games the Irish need to win to boost their road record. The Tigers, who compete in the East Coast Athletic Conference, are 3-5 on the year. Princeton toughest teams Notre Dame will face this year. The Eagles were 28-13-1 last season and made the NCAA Final Four, and they're on pace to return there this season. Boston College is currently ranked third in Division I. The Irish have a 6-7 all-time record against the Eagles,. but that mark is possi­bly misleading, since the two teams haven't met since 1978. 
The Irish, as an independent, need to rack up some wins against quality opponents to gain the lone independent berth in the NCAA Tournament, and this is their perfect chance. 
Besides, Notre Dame proba­bly won't mind giving up some of its vacation time to get some big victories on the road. 



Announcing a new era in travel at Notre Dame. 
Anthony Travel, Inc. 
Opening January 2, 1991 in LaFortune Student Center 
Friday, December 14, 1990 The Observer page 23 
The times they are a chang in' in college football 
Big East begins assembling football conference 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) ­The Big East said on Thursday it would form a four-team football conference and talk in­dividually with four other schools -West Virginia, Rutgers, Temple and Virginia Tech -about joining. 
Boston College, Miami, Pittsburgh and Syracuse are "the current Big East members which will comprise the foot­ball-only league that begins play next season. 
The meetings with the four non-Big East members will probably be held in mid­January. commissioner. Mike Tranghese said. Those schools, if they join, would play only football and would not join the 10-team conference for other sports. 
Miami became the lOth mem­ber of the conference earlier this year. The Hurricanes won three national football champi­onships in the 1980s and their admission forced the Big East to look for a solution to keep its other major footbal members happy. 
West Virginia University 
president Neil Bucklew stopped short of saying the decision means the Mountaineers are part of an Eastern football conference. 
"Everyone will have to reach their own conclusion. I guess," Bucklew said. "It's clear that an arrangement has taken place and we're one of the players in that. It's an option we have explored fully. 
"We need to confirm that ev­erything is as we think it is. I think we're taking a major step closer to forming a conferenre ... but anything could happen betwe1m now and January. The wheels could come off the buggy, but I don't expect them to." 
Bucklew also said he believes "it will be a premier conference for football purposes. and that makes me feel good. If there's any sense that's contrary to that, I had hoped these deliber­ations over the last 18 months would have resulted in an all­sports .conference." 
West Virginia athletic director Ed Pastilong issued a written statement on the decision. 


[Xkill[p[?)2J ~ TI ~o OOoiT'DOu@J@J2:7 
12-17-90 Debbie Larkin 
Attention Students 
Are you broke,do you need extra money, and or nothing to do in between classes,evenings or weekends? 
Well, we have a great opportunity for you to join the locally-owned and operated Burger King team located, for your convenience, at 
the comer of Ironwood and State Road 23. 
We oHer FLEXIBLE HOURS, FREE UNIFORMS, DISCOUNT MEALS, SENIORITY BONUS,VACATIONS, GROUP INSURANCE, AND PENSION/PROFIT SHARING. 
We are currently accepting applications in the white traile at our soon-to-be completed BURGER KING located at the comer of Ironwood ana State Road 23, between the hours of 1O:OOa.m. and 6:00p.m., Monday through Saturday. Stop by and apply! 
BURGER KING· CORNER OF IRONWOOD AND STATE 
ROAD23 BURGER 
BURGER KING KING 
® ® 
"I have discussed this pro­posal at length today with both Mike Tranghese and some of the other athletic directors in­volved in these plans.... One reported issued that had con­cerned us was talk of a 10-year commitment and a lock-out policy against formation of an all-sports league in the future," he said. 
"But I asked Mike Tranghese today and he told me specifi­cally that neither of those stipu­lations would be a part of the merger.... We will enter the discussions as an equal, and I think this scenario presents many interesting possibilities." 
The athletic directors from the Big East's four football schools met Wednesday in Washington, D.C.. to discuss plans for the new league. 
Reports of the Eastern foot­ball league -a topic of conver­sation and conjecture for years -had been circulating all week. 
Syracuse, Boston College and Pittsburgh have major-college football programs and have considered bolting the Big East. but Tranghese had promised a solution to the football prob­lem. 
"We have put forth a tremen­dous amount of time and effort in laying the groundwork for a football conference," Tranghese said. 
The Big East's other members -Connecticut, Georgetown, Providence, St. John's, Seton Hall and Villanova -don't have Division I-A football programs. 
According to two sources who spoke on the condition they not be identified, one issue remaining is the hope for an automatic bowl bid for the con­ference champion. A tie-in with the Southwest Conference champion is being examined, one source said. 
Young says goodbye to West Point 
WEST POINT. N.Y. (AP)-Jim Young was lucky. He got hit with a bucket of water as his last game as Army coach drew to its happy close. 
The water may have helped Young, a master at masking his emotions, hide a tear or two in the final minute of Army's 30­20 victory over Navy last week. 
It is impossible, however, to hide what the 55-year-old Young has accomplished in eight years at West Point. 
Before Young took over in 1983, Army football was "a disaster," as former athletic director Carl Ullrich not-so­fondly remembers. 
The record speaks for itself. The 10 years before Young took over were the bleakest in the football program's storied history. The team, once a ter­ror, was.simply te.rrible. 
The 1973 Cadets lost all 10 of their games. Army had failed to win a game only one other time -in 1890. But that was the team's first season and the Cadets played only one game, losing 24-0 to Navy. 
From 1973-82, Army won only 33 games. lost 72 and tied four, and had but one winning season. Worst of all. the Cadets lost to Navy eight times. won once and tied another. Three of those losses were shutouts, in­cluding a 51-0 rout in 1973, the most lopsided loss in the his­tory of .the series. Aside from their 1 7-14 victory in 1977. the Cadets scored a meager 39 points in the nine other games against the Middies. 
As the 1970s drew to a close, the coaching job became a re­volving door. After just one winning season in five, Homer Smith left in 1978, Lou Saban came and went in 1979, and Ed Cavanaugh began an unsuc­cessful three-year stint in 1980. 
Army football was at a very low level, and not only on the field. 

Me·¥-r:Y.; Chri;trhas Briar¥ 
::: :+: (nic~-. haircut!) *-"¥::. ~'x~ 

Alex's -An Old Time Tradition 
Alex's Shoe Hospital has been serving the Notre Dame community since 1919. You can"t take the 

streetcar anymore, but today's quick trip downtown still rewards you with caring, friendly service (often while you wait) and old time craftsmanship. 
Keep your feet in shape by trusting your footwear maintenance needs to Alex's Shoe Hospital. 
-~­
SHOE·HOSPITAL 
115 West Washington Downtown South Bend 
Dally 7:30-5:30, Saturday 9:00 to 1:00 
Telephone 288-2188 

"When I came here in 1980 
we were just about bankrupt," 
said Ullrich, who left West Point 
last summer to head the Patriot 
League. 
Enter Young, who already 
had resurrected programs at 
Arizona and Purdue. 
Young had given up coaching 
in 1982 to become associate 
athletic director at Purdue, but 
he missed those football 
Saturdays on the sidelines. 
Then the Army job opened. 
"He came to us with an en­
thusiasm and commitment to 
the job that no one else would 
have," said Ullrich, who de­
cided to hire Young. "There 
was almost an electricity about 
him and the way he felt about 
West Point." 
Young expected to step right 
in and win. He didn't. 
The team won only two of 11 
games in his first year and lost 
42-13 to Navy before 81,000 in 
Pasadena. The alumni weren't 
pleased, even though the Army 
program pocketed almost $1.5 
million from the telecast of the 
game. 
"After Jim was 2-9, some of 
the alumni said. 'God, Ullrich, 
you really did it!' But I believed 
in Jim with all my heart," 
Ullrich said. "I thought I knew 
a winner." 
Ullrich introduced Young to 
Earl "Red" Blaik, the famed 
Army coach who had trans­
formed the Cadets from a patsy 
into a powerhouse in the 
1940s. Blaik's teams were an 
incredible 57-3-4 from 1944-50 
and won national 
championships in 1944 and 
1945. 
Blaik desperately wanted to see the program recover. Young obliged, calling on the past for inspiration. He demanded a continuation of the school's tradition from his people, dusted off films of the glory years and showed them to his teams, and tacked up mottos and slogans in the meeting room, some of them made pop­ular by Blaik. 
"He used that to encourage the kids, to raise their sights." Ullrich said. "The kids hated losing. You don't get other than winners at West Point, but there was almost a feeling that maybe we couldn't get the job done in 1-A football." 
Fall Saturdays at picturesque Michie Stadium remained fes­tive occasions for many, but not because of football. 
"We had a lot of loyal folks who stuck with the program through thick and thin," Ullrich said. 'There were a lot of folks who came and tailgated and didn't even go into the stadium. The fot'ltball game wasn't im­portant at all. 
"But as we began playing ex­citing football, people came in a little earlier and you didn't see that big crowd out in the park­ing lot." 
The excitement returned in 1984, when Young switched to the ground-oriented wishbone attack employed so successfully by Air Force. The Cadets were 8-3-1. led the nation in rushing and went to their first-ever bowl game. beating Michigan State 10-6 in the inaugural Cherry Bowl. 
Army went 9-3 in 1985, giving the Cadets 17 wins in two seasons, more than they had won in the five previous years combined. They completed the season with a 31-29 victory over Illinois in the Peach Bowl. Three seasons later they again were 9-3 and nearly upset heavily favored Alabama in the Sun Bowl before bowing 29-28. 

page 24 
Valdiserri given first BCSIDA Achiever Award 
his concern, assistance and guidance." 
Carol Hudson Jr., president emeritus of the BCSIDA, made the presentation to Valdiserri. 
The inscription read, "To Roger Valdiserri of the University of Notre Dame. The Black College Sports Information Directors Association takes great plea­sure in recognizing an individ­ual whose effort, dedication and total commitment has as­sisted this organization and the historically black institutions of higher learning to attain greater recognition for their student athletes and our mem­bership. May God continue to guide you." 
Valdiserri is in his 25th year as a member of the athletic de­partment. He graduated in 1954 froni Notre Dame and served as an administrative as­sistant to Irish football coach Terry Brennan until 1959. He then became public relations director for Mercedes-Benz of North America before moving to the Kansas City Chiefs as public relations director in 1964. 
TCU 
continued from page 28 

there and just played like I knew I could play." 
Comalita Haysbert-whose 13 first-half points led the Irish to a 39-28 halftime lead-for one had no doubt in her mind that Orlosky could do the job when called upon. 
"We all knew Sherri could come in the game and do something," Haysbert said. "She's an excellent shooter, and she can play defense. She can hold her own on the court. 
"We had faith in her, and finally, coach (McGraw) put her 

~ ~ ~~~ ~?9~' ...appJ/' 
20th §> 
Birthday tt 
Rod ~ 
Love, Mom, ' 1

Dad, Maura, ~~ Pop, Liz, ~~
9 ' <:9 ~r9 ,, '? ·,, {_~e,~·Ii~e ~ 

~~ 
PANCAKE HOUSE leurtiPJJ ~lruJArud 
LUNCH SPECIAL Mon.-Fri. All Month 
Free Hot Soup With Any Sandwich Purchase 
Open 7 Days A Week At 6:30A.M. 
U.S. 31 North In Ro•eland (Acrou From TheHoliday Inn) 272-7433 
SERVING ND/SMC STUDENTS FOR25 YEARS 
DECEMBER 
SPECIAL 
All Month Apple Pancakes 
$JOO 
OFF No Coupon Needed HAPPY HOLIDAYS! 
The Observer 
~· 
.*!tt~-. ' , 
a '{ . 

Photo by John Gilmore Roger Valdiserri, Associate Athletic Director at Notre Dame, received the first BCSIDA Acheiver Award from (left) Carold Hudson, Jr. (past president) and (right) James H. Alnuti (BCSIDA Executive Secretary). 
High ranking for Irish tennis teams 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's tennis teams received some pleasant news Thursday when they learned that they were both ranked in the final fall poll. 
The Irish men are 13th in the current poll, while the Irish women are tied for 25th. 
in the game and she had a chance to prove herself ... we were just happy that she had her time to shine." 
And if Orlosky continues to shine on the court as she did this evening, the future appears very bright for her at Notre Dame. 
.. 

Top singles player David DiLucia is ranked sixth among individuals, his highest ranking ever. DiLucia completed the fall season with a 16-2 record. He and Chuck Coleman are third in the doubles' poll, also their highest ranking ever. They posted a 10-0 mark this fall. 
Junior Tracy Barton leads the women with a ranking of 28th after posting a 12-5 record in 
Irish express 
To The Orange Bowl j\]0H:r :~ D cJ In ~ Y~ ;. C0 Jc; 1] cJ cJ c.; December 29 TO January 2 
$729* 

(Based on Double Occupancy) 
INCLUDES: Round Trip Air Charter from South Bend Hotel Accommodations ( Racquet & Golf Club) Orange Bowl tickets and all transfers (NFL Game optional : Colts vs. Dolphins) 
FOR INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS CALL 1-800-666-1304 OR (219) 289-8687 
SPACE IS LIMITED-MAKE YOUR RESERVAUONS TODAY! 
• $759 FROM CHICAGO & FT. WAYNE 
matches this fall. Freshman Christy Faustman is 43rd with a record of 11-5, while sopho­more Melissa Harris is 44th at 11-1. The doubles tandem of Barton and Faustman is 12th with a 13-3 mark. 
This is the first time the Notre Dame women's team has had three singles' players ranked nationally. 

I i' 
,, 
I 
I 
I 
t 
) f 
' 
i 
' IIII 
I 
I 
I
I 
il ~~ 
:.I! 
li
r·I,
1I !{ 
11 tF1 
n1 
rY; 
jij 
·'l ·)!( 
jit/
.i• 
t 
',! Ji: 
J'.' .' '•(
'I' '· 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Associate Athletic Director Roger Valdiserri recently won the first Achiever's Award presented by the Black College Sports Information Director's Association (BCSIDA). 
Jim Alnuti, executive secre­tary of the BCSIDA, said Valdiserri was honored for the role he played, while serving as President of the College Sports Information Directors Association, in assisting BCSIDA to grow to its present status. 
"His leadership and personal efforts on behalf of our organi­zation gave us an unprece­dented impetus in becoming an effective organization and a vi­able member of the national sports information community," Alnuti said. "He personally saw to it that BCSIDA members were given opportunities to serve as members and chairs and in leadership roles on the various CoSIDA committees, positions which were not available to us previously. 
"He also corresponded with every president at the histori­cally black institutions about the importance and function of their sports information direc­tors. As a result, attendance at 
. the annual CoSIDA workshops increased substantially. Our in­stitutions have benefitted from 
FIFA soccer 
group adjusts 
1994 World Cup 
ZURICH, Switzerland (AP) ­Africa today was awarded a third berth in the World Cup soccer finals, with the addi­tional berth coming from Europe's allotment. 
The move was proposed by FIFA president Joao Havelange after Egypt and Cameroon put on outstanding performances last summer, but it needed ap­proval from the 29-member ex­ecutive committee. 
For the 199~ finals, to be played in the United States, Europe will have 13 of the 24 berths, including the slot given to the defending champion -in this case, Germany. 
FIFA also gave the Central and North American region a chance at a third berth, but no guarantee. The region has two guaranteed spots. 
Asia's bid for a third berth was rejected, partly because of Asian teams' disappointing showing at the last World Cup. 
The federation's policymaking Executive Committee also launched a study which could lead to radical rule changes to increase scoring. 
Action was taken against three countries. 
Costa Rica was suspended for two years from all FIFA youth competitions, including the Olympic soccer tournament, for fielding an overage player in a 1985 tournament. The case was uncovered when the same player, Hernan Medford, listed a different age when playing for Costa Rica at last summer's World Cup finals. 
Colombia was barred indefi­nitely from hosting interna­tional games of any kind be­cause turmoil in the country was deemed a safety risk for soccer. 
Iraq was effectively banned from international soccer until the Gulf crisis is resolved. 

Great  NOTRE DAME  ORANGE  
Christmas  BOWL  
=~~-­ CAPS  
~r::______________________________ """  AVAILABLE  
----------------­ 
RADIO CAP  $32.95  


Friday, December 14, 1990 The Observer page 25 
Gowens headlines Irish wrestlers 
By DAVE DIETEMAN also bagged 24 wins for the those cases. Our philosophy is Sports Writer second year in a row, while ty­to dominate whoever we wres­ing Mark Gerardi for the team tle." Someday there will be a new lead in pins (six). The then­But don't think for a minute name among the prodigious list sophomore from Del City, Okla., that Gowens is unaware of the of great Irish wrestlers. also won the Michigan State work he must get done to climb 
It is likely that when someday Invitational and the National to the top of his sport. comes, Marcus Gowens will be Catholic Tournament. This "I've just approached this that new name. year, Gowens is ranked tenth in season with a new attitude," 
Provided that he keeps up his the nation at 126 pounds, after confessed Gowens. ''I'm not stringent work ethic. If you ask having won the Michigan State worried about making weight Marcus about his success, you Invitational and placing seventh anymore. I have a new diet, so I get the impression that he not at prestigious Las Vegas don't have to worry as much as only plans to, but will keep it Invitational. I used to. Now, I can just worry up. Of course, Gowens' spectacu­about wrestling. 
"I'm very optimistic about lar exploits still leave him with "I guess that is the reason I qualifying for the NCAA tour­room for improvem~nt. am better in practice this year; nament again," admitted "In the past, Marcus was not I can really pay attention to Gowens. "I just have to focus a great practice wrestler," ex­practice. I think that I have my mind on the tournament. plained Notre Dame h-ead matured, and I have learned to I've already wrestled the fifth­coach Fran McCann. "In the listen more to the coaches. 
Photo Courtesy of ND Sports Information 
ranked wrestler in my weight past, he was able to get away They have good advice, and I 
think that my good relationship Marcus Gowens, one of many talented Irish wrestlers, hopes that his
class (LeShawn Charles of with it -he could turn it on for 
with my coaches has helped me dedication will earn him a return trip to the NCAA Tournament this year.
Arizona State) at the St. Louis meets. But in college, you must Open. A penalty point was the practice hard. He has really wrestle better -both in practice 
cause they combine academicsfare in the future. 
difference in that match. I felt matured in that area and the and in matches." 
and athletics so well," con­
"I am really optimistic aboutlike I could have won the match results are starting to show. Against Missouri, Gowens fessed Gowens without hesita­the team and the whole year,"if I had done a few more things Marcus also has a very good had a chance to put his new tion. "I had to choose between

stated the confident, yet

right. I sure feel like I have confidence level now. and improved wrestling self to going to those schools which I
humble junior. "It's tough

proved to myself that I can "He can get a little bit better the test. As may have been 
though focused primarily on
having such a young team, butcompete with the top eight on his feet. When he gets onto guessed, he passed with flying athletics an'd those which werekeep in mind that because wewrestlers in my weight class." the mat with someone he re­colors. 

mainly academic. I couldn't
are young, we will learn from a

Last year, Gowens placed spects or-someone that he "The wrestler I beat had 
find any other school that 
_./ third at the NCAA West • thinks is tough, he becomes beaten me at St. Louis," stated tough schedule. Our schedule 
combined academics and
Regional to qualify for the more defensive. Marcus just Gowens, "and it felt nice for me will definitely help us be athletics with the good balanceNCAA Tournament. Gowens needs to open up on people in to return the favor. I felt that I prepared for the NCAA 

Now see it and hear it . .. never miss a play. The amazing Radio Cap with it's built-in AMIFM radio is perfect for listening to your favorite team. A MUST while attending the game! 
Mail to: 

Name': 
-----------·-~ 
C. C. Enterprises 
P. 0. Box 2427

Address: 
-------------·-------------
Durango. CO 81302 City /StiZip -or call ­(303)247 -8194 MC/VISA t: .
.. 
Price includes shipping and battcri('~
Exp. Date: 
Look at Me, I'm Stacey T., M.D. Happy Early Birthday, Tisch! 
Love 'ya bunches, Cara and Leslie 
that Notre Dame does." 
tournament, which is our

could have scored more points Over break, Gowens and the
primary concern. More than

on my feet. The guy was a de­
Irish must take on Ohio
anything, we want to be ready

fensive wrestler, and he took University, No. 12 Ohio State ,
for the NCAA tournament." Perhaps more important thanaway a lot of my offense, but I and No. 18 Syracuse -all on was happy with the win." As one of the more senior 

anything else, Marcus Gowens the road. 
"It'll be tough on the road,"
is succeeding at the school of

members on a relatively young said McCann. "Ohio Universityteam, one may wonder how his choice. 
should be a solid team, but
"I came to Notre Dame be-

Gowens thinks the Irish will they're not in the same class as Ohio State or Syracuse. We've always had decent luck against Ohio State, but this will be our 
Chinese-Amerlc8n 
first dual meet against Rutaurant& 
Syracuse. Syracuse could be 
Cocktail Lounge 

the best team in the east, and
Authentic Szechuan. Mandann & Hunan Cuisine they have lots of redshirt 
freshmen."
Lunches starting at----$3.95 

"It's going to be like starting
Banquet n~oms Dinners starting at----$5.45 

the season all over again," said 
lwailable for u,: Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 

McCann. "Hopefully, we'll work 
to 200

L...,"""""'!!'!!'!!,.,..........l Mon.· Thu... 11::J0Lm.lo 10p.m. Fri.· Sat. 11::J0Lrn.lo 11 p.m. 
out over break. We'll certainly
272-7378 Sun. I Holida)'O 11:30 un.to 10p.rn. 

have to intensify our efforts
130 Dixie W•y S., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) after Christmas." 


, 
'I 
page 26 
Buffs 
continued from page 28 
including five bowl teams, have combined for a 75-52-4 record 
(58.9 winning percentage) in '90. ' 
NotNl Dame's schedule, widely considered the most dif­ficult in the nation in preseason ratings, includes eight bowl teams and opponents who have combined for a 68-4 7-5 record 
(58.8 winning percentage). 
For the second consecutive year, Notre Dame has the op­portunity to knock Colorado from its No. 1 perch and out of national championship con­tention. The Irish (9-2) are within striking distance, but need help from Nebraska and Miami to claim their second na­tional title in three years. 
The 19th-ranked Cornhuskers play No. 2 Georgia Tech in the Citrus Bowl, while the fourth-ranked Hurricanes face No. 3 Texas in the Cotton Bowl. Notre Dame should have the edge over Miami should both teams win their bowl games since the Irish soundly defeated the Hurrfcanes earlier this season in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Orange Bowl represents the final collegiate appearance for Notre Dame's senior classs, the most successful four-year class in school history. The class of '90 has accumulated a 41-7 record (.854 winning per­centage) over the past four years, second only to Miami (43-4). 
The current Irish seniors also have won a record 18 games over teams ranked in the Associated Press top 25, have won 13 games over top 10 AP teams, and have appeared in 
four straight postseason games, 
[f!]®w 1J[}u@l1J W®0fl® 0®@@l0q W®olt® ll®@l@]zf {h)(? 
OO)(ii)i)@ ~~ ®00 OOl@ ~(S[}uQ 
[}(]@l[p[;)W ~ TI ~ ~@l®lt®@oo ~ ~Blke& 
~ri®Wi:l 2/®®(/' ~(?Be&oo@l~ 
Boo 
~@l(?0®W ~ ~0@lOOIJiJ@(?o 
a Notre Dame first. 
"Our seniors have gone to four Jan. 1 bowls (the Cotton in '87, the Fiesta in '88, and the Orange in '89 and '90)." Holtz said, "and we've been through an awful lot of adversity. I wonder just how good we could have been if we didn't have all the distractions." 
The distractions have contin­ued this season for Holtz and Notre Dame. Rumors of sferoid use, recruiting violations. mis­use of telephone calling cards and Holtz's departure for the professional ranks began over the summer and have followed the Irish throughout the sea­son. 
With the exception of the ru­mors concerning Holtz's future at Notre Dame, perhaps no story has grabbed more head­lines than the demise of the Irish defense this season. 
After losing three secondary starters to graduation last May and defensive coordinator Barry Alvarez to Wisconsin in January. new defensive coordi­nator Gary Darnell has used seven different starting combi­nations in a defensive sec­ondary that currently ranks 90th in the country. 
Traditionally, Notre Dame has defended the rush more ef­fectively than the pass, and this year has been no exception. The Irish front seven has yielded an average of 123.2 yards per game on the ground (24th in the country), but Notre Dame ranks only 73rd nationally in total defense. 
"I don't think we're taking as strong a team as we did last year," Holtz said. "We've given up more big plays this year than in past years combined. We don't have the speed in the secondary we had last year, and we don't present as many problems (offensively) for a de­
&wrn~Lrn@~g rPO®[}{]lTIJ[t:£]® O[K{O~[}{] 
CdJrr.alL thL 1991 D'ta.llf]E. !Bowl 
dVotu !banu. [JJuf]amL g:;>arrly & d?af4J 
IN FT. LAUDERDALE AT 
,CIJMME~ on the beach 
(Q FT. lAUDERDALE'S PREMIERE ~ CONCERT AND DANCE CLUB 18 YEARS AND OLDER AJiiiiUTTED 
Sunday, December 30th 7·9 p.m. 
Free admission with valid Notre Dame ID for over 21 7-9 p.m. 
All refreshments 75< 7· 9 p.m. 
-a<cup & 5.4.VE --------------------------------­
NOTRE DAME • ORANGE BOWL PARTY 
<DnL {'tU u[uku.n.t. Good from 7-9 p.m. Sunday, December 30 
(UMIT ONE PER CUSTDMER) Summers on the Beach • 219 S. Atlantic mvd. • Ft. Lauderdale, R.., • (305) 462-8978 (Located 1/2 BLOCK NORTH OFOLAS BVLD. ON AlA) ADMISSION POLICY: 18 YEARS OR OLDER WELCOME 
The Observer 
fense as we did last year." 
Colorado's offense, however, should present more problems for the Irish defense this year. After a 1-1-1 start in which they converted only 15-of-48 third-down conversion at­tempts, the Buffaloes clicked at a 55 percent rate over the last nine weeks in situations that have proven to be Notre Dame's achilles heel this season. 
Colorado is currently ranked 14th in the country in total of­fense, a statistic that has im­proved considerably since Head Coach Bill McCartney decided to let quarterback Darian Hagan go to the air more often. 
"Darian Hagan has a strong arm and a quick release," Holtz said. "He also has very good peripheral vision. The ability to throw the football gives him a dimension more than a year ago. (Wide receiver) Mike · Pritchard is a very fine receiver. He reminds you a lot of (Notre Dame flanker) Rocket (Ismail)." 
Defensively, Colorado boasts one of the finest linebacking corps in the country in book­ends Alfred Willims and Kanavis McGhee. Williams won the '90 Butkus Award, while McGhee was a finalist for both the Butkus and Lombardi (won by Irish nose tackle Chris Zorich) awards. 
Notre Dame will counter with a rushing attack that has vir­tually dominated opponents the last seven weeks of the season. The Irish have averaged 261.7 yards rushing per game and scored 18 touchdowns in the fi­nal seven contests. Their sea­son average of 250.3 yards per game ranks 12th best in the country. 

Friday, December 14, 1990 
Break 
continued from page 28 

who averaged 30.7 ppg and 8.6 rpg as a high school senior last season. 
The most difficult game for the Irish over break will be a Dec. 5 matchup against North Carolina in The Meadowlands in East Rutherford, N.J. The Tar Heels have won four of their first five games, the latest of which was an 84-81 triumph over Kentucky Tuesday night. 
Coach Dean Smith's North Carolina squad is led by senior forward Pete Chilcutt, smooth swingman Rick Fox and point guard King Rice. Freshman center Eric Montross. a seven­footer out of Lawrence North high school in Indianapolis, was one of the most sought-after prospects in college basketball last year and should be tough inside. 
Next up for Notre Dame, after a Jan. 6 exhibition against the USSR in Springfield, Mass., will be a trip to Kansas to play Wichita State on Jan. 10. The Shockers have already beaten Oklahoma this year, so they may be better than last year's 10-19 record indicates. Senior forward John Cooper (17.0 ppg last season) will lead the Shockers, who are coached by Mike Cohen. 
From Kansas the Irish will travel to Miami to take on the Hurricanes on Jan. 15. Miami's first-year coach Leonard Hamilton will look for 6-9 cen­ter Joe Wylie (18.4 ppg, 9.5 rpg last season) to do most of the damage inside for the Hurricanes. 
The Irish will then return home to face West Virginia on Jan 15, the first day of classes in the spring semester. The Mountaineers, members of the Atlantic 10 conference, are coached by Gale Catlett, who has a 249-119 record in 12 years at West Virginia. The player to watch for the Mountaineers is junior guard Tracy Shelton, who averaged 
17.8 ppg last season. 

Notre Dame's matches with Portland, Valparaisp, North Carolina Miami and West Virginia will all be carried by SportChannel America. Television coverage is not scheduled for the exhibition versus the Soviets or the Wichita State contest. 
Happy 2lst Birthday to Mark Santulli 
•
1n Rome, Italy 



BBQ Beach Party Ladies Night -Ladies on the House Tonight (Must be 21 Years of Age)  
Saturday, Dec 29 Noon  BBQ Beach Party Dance 'Till You Drop with the Domers at Miami's Hottest Nightclub! Beach Party For Notre Dame Band Members  

2pm Hang Gliding Air Show by Miami Hang Gliding Company Watch The Irish Circle Over Penrod's and Land on the Beach 
Sunday, Dec 30 
7pm The Official Pep Ral~-GO IRISH!! 
Monday, Dec 31 

':: . · 9pm-5am Notre Dame's New Year's Eve Party Headquarters Special Discount For Nortre Dame Fans: Students $10 (Bring Your L Jan 1, 91 · Post Game Victory Party 
111 No Cover Charge Wrth Proper Notre Dame I.D. 
!.J 
The Observer 
page 27. 

CAMPUS 
Friday 
8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Movie: "National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation," Auditorium, Cushing Hall of Engi­neering. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
7:30 p.m. Folk Dancing. Saint Mary"s Clubhouse. Spon­sored by Saint Mary's College. Call 284-4478 or 287-1605 for more information. 
8 p.m. Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas Concert. Stepan Center. Sponsored by Notre Dame Glee Club. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Irish Frred Flounder Beef Noodle Casserole Vegetable Calzone Grilled Turkey Steak Mozzarella Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef Vegetarian Lasagna Batter Fried Fish Deli Bar 
BILL WATTERSON 
1 to\00, L£\S FKE \I, r>. 
I.PT <::£ C~RI<;IIV\~5 \.001 IS t-.1 '5\~'f(£ ~£R£' f>..t--1\) Th£. 
COt--1<;\\IU\ION S~'i5 ~() 1'\:~N S-1~\l. 'a£ I)£?RI'J~O or ~c,~lrr'{ 'fl\1\-\0VT IN£ 
PROC.E'S'S Of Li>.W . 
\ 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 32 Fencer's stamp 60 Engage in of the foot raillery
1 Shade of brown 35Crown 61 Soprano from 5 He wrote "The 
36 Solar deity Valencia · 

Horse's Mouth" 37 Dasht-e-Kavir, 62 0., to 0. Henry9Apportion in Iran 63 Ceremonial14 Roald or Arlene dinner40 Lunar trench 15 Kind of history 64 Painter Jan van41 Troublesome
16 Dine at home der­
one

17 Historic series 65 Since, in Selkirk 
42 Nbwheresvilleof linguistic 43 Qty.

changes 
44 Caution

20 Furies DOWN 21 Flat stones. in 1 Lined 
45 Watchdog org. Mexico 46 Elevator 
2 French square 22 Iniquitous place transport 3 River of 23 Engendered 47 Festal pomp 
Deutschland 25 Dawn goddess 49 One of the 4-Bator, in 26 Buddhist Apodes Mongolia 
temple 52 School of 5 Secret 27 Front-page Russian poetry 6 Originated boxes sa Incapacitate 7 Kind of material 29 Andress film: 58 "Gloria in 8 Primordial 1965 Excelsis Deo" substance of the universe 9 Where Xerxes ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
crossed the Hellespont 10 Sunken fences 



12 Plenteous · 33 Prissy 13 Tolkien's tree 34Whack folk 35Average 18A Capulet talk-show host? 36 Site of the Dead 
intent 
Sea 38 Scanty
26 Prosperity 
39 City on the Rio Grande
29 Peduncle 
44 Salver
30 Queencup, e.g. 31 Within: Comb. 45 Sovereign form remedy 46Word with Pradesh desist 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 


........ 48 Esteem highly 53 Algonquian 49"-and 
language Ivory," 
54 Fermented McCartney­
drink ss SALT talks Wender hit 

concern

so-marbles 
57 Start of Ore.'s 

51 Philippine 
motto 

island 
59 Bambi's 52 T-men, e.g. mother, e.g. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75ft each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

Christmas Vacation December 14 8:00 & 10:30 P.M.. Cushing Auditorium Admission $2 
• 
Sports

page 28 Friday, December 14, 1990 
Women's hoops surge past Texas Christian 78-67 


Robinson, Haysbert each net 17 in sloppy, messy win 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
ll In what Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw called their worst performance of the season, the Irish women's bas­
Jl 
l· ketball team defeated Texas Christian 78-67 at the Joyce ACC Thursday night. 
McGraw was extremely dis­satisfied with Notre Dame's play, although the Lady Frogs 
l ! ' 
really never threatened after the Irish took the lead with 
7:09 left in the first half. 
"We didn't play well men­tally," McGraw said. "We didn't have our intensity. We weren't concentrating." 
McGraw pointed to missed layups, poor defense and "bad 
I. decisions with the ball" as problems that plagued the 3-3 squad. The Irish turned the ball over 24 times and had difficulty bringing the ball up the court when TCU implemented a tight full court press in the closing minutes of the game. 
"We didn't play like a team," McGraw said. 
The Irish came out cold in the first half, failing on their first five shot attempts and missing 14 layups. While Notre Dame began with a strong 14-6 start, TCU fought back early in the game, taking the lead twice in an 11-4 run. 

A full court drive and basket by senior guard Karen Robin­son, who along with Comalita 
Haysbert paced the Irish with 
17 points, put Notre Dame on 
top 20-19. Freshman Katura 
Jones followed with a three 
point pnty, and Robinson added 
a trifecta from the left wing. 
The Lady Frogs never led 
again. 

Notre Dame headed to the 
locker room with a 39-28 lead 
behind Haysbert's 13 points. 
The junior grabbed seven re­
bounds to lead the Irish. 
Haysbert and Krissi Davis, who also had seven rebounds, virtually shut down TCU's most potent offensive attack in the . first half by limiting sophomore Liz Zeller to three points. But the forward, who averages 15.3 ppg., came back in the second half and finished as the Lady Frogs leading scorer with 23 points, although she did not sink a field goal until 3:33 into 
the second half. 

Despite her high scoring and 
eight assists, Robinson agreed 
with McGraw that the Irish 
played poorly. 

"It was an ugly win," said 
Robinson. "We should have 
looked like a machine out 
there, but we didn't." 

Robinson and McGraw both 
attributed the problem to a lack 
of team cohesiveness. 

"I think it's attitude," said 
McGraw. "We're not playing 
like a team." 

Part of the problem may stem 
from having 13 players on the 
team. Robinson said that after becoming accustomed to only seven or eight people on the squad last season, there is more pressure ·on everyone to excel this year. 
"Last year everyone knew their roles and we don't right now," said Robinson. "We're not playing well together be­cause we don't all know each other well on the court yet." 
McGraw was happy with the play of freshman Sherri Or­losky'. who found her niche from about 15 feet on the left side of the basket. Orlosky con­tributed eight second half points -all from that spot -as she capitalized on the weak spot in the Lady Frogs' zone defense. 
It was TCU's full court press late in the second half, how­ever, that made McGraw ner­vous. Although the Irish had led by as many as 19, the Lady Frogs whittled away that mar­gin by converting on numerous Notre Dame turnovers. 
"The guards tried to dribble between between two and three people," said McGraw. 
NOTES -Joi Wells kept TCU in the game early, scoring 10 of her 18 points win the first half... Davis, who started her 67th consecutive game despite suffering a sprained right knee last Saturday against Syracuse, had 10 points and two blocked shots ... Jones added nine points ofT the bench. 


ND teams set for winter break 
Digger Phelps and Company to 1ace Tar Heels, Valpo 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 
A bad season has become worse for the Notre Dame men's basketball team with each passing day. The Irish will get a much-needed break from basketball during final exams next week, but will play five games and an exhibition game over Christmas Break and one on the first day of classes Jan. 15. 
'f The Irish have been short­
I, handed since senior captain Tim Singleton went down with a back injury against Kentucky in the Big Four Classic Dec. 1. Singleton should be out for at least a couple more weeks with the injury. This has put an added burden on junior guard Elmer Bennett, who has taken over the point guard position in Singleton's absence, as well as Daimon Sweet and Kevin Ellery, who have had to handle the ball more in support of Bennett. 
"We're just not deep at the guard spots," Irish coach Digger Phelps said after Notre Dame's 105-95 loss to USC Wednesday, "and when Bennett has things goin"g where he gets tired and you've got Sweet and Ellery, who aren't really second guards, handling the ball, we're not as effective as we would be with Singleton out there." 
The lack of depth has Phelps considering employing a more d~liberate gameplan after Christmas. 
"We've got to come back and figure out how we can play with this team and the style of game we can play," Phelps said. "If that means we have to play in the 60s, then we have to play in the 60s to win, because it's obvious we can't run for 40 minutes when other teams want to run with us. We just have to play a lot smarter than we are right now with regard to the tempo of the game." 
Notre Dame's next chance to end this losing streak, which is the longest the Irish have had since 1971-72, will be Saturday, Dec. 2 2 at 1:30 at home against Portland. The Pilots, members of the West Coast Conference, will be led by senior guard/forward Ron Deaton a,.nd junior guard Erick Spoelstra. 
After the Portland game the Irish players will have a chance to spend the holiday with their parents. They will then return to campus on Dec. 28 to begin preparing for the rest of their schedule. 
Notre Dame will ring in the New Year on Jan. 2 at 8 p.m. at home versus Valparaiso. The Crusaders, who were 4-24 last season, have been dismal thus far this year as well. The only Valparaiso players worth men­tioning are sophomore guard Tracy Gipson, who averaged 
10.3 ppg last season, and freshman guard Geoff Gilmore, 
see BREAK I page 26 

Football team set for Orange Bowl rematch with Buffs 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame has played more than its share of "character­building" games this season, duelling Michigan, Michigan State, Stanford, Tennessee, Peim State and USC to the wire. The Irish have nothing on Orange Bowl opponent Colorado in the excitement de­partment, however. 
The Buffaloes' first five games, against Tennessee, Stanford, Illinois, Texas and Washington, were not decided until the final two minutes. A sixth came down to a contro­versial fifth-down play in which quarterback Charles Johnson scored from one yard out as time expired in Colorado's 33­31 win at Missouri. 
The top-ranked Buffaloes, who have won nine straight games and have compiled the best record in college football over the last two seasons (21-2­1), are looking to snap a seven­game losing streak in bowl games and claim their first national championship when they take on No. 5 Notre Dame in the Jan. 1 Orange Bowl game. 
"Colorado has been in some very critical times and been productive for the most part," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz said. "It's always more impressive when a team wins a close football game than when it wins a blowout. They've been in close games and come back." 
Colorado finished its regular season with a 10-1-1 record against perhaps the toughest schedule in college football. The Buffaloes' 12 opponents, 
see BUFFS I page 26 

The Observer/Dave Lee Sherri Orlosky's (#22) timely second-half scoring helped the Fighting Irish to a 78-67 win over the Horned Frogs of TCU last night. 
Orlosky powers Notre Dame in second half 
Up until now, freshman Sherri Orlosky had been biding her time, waiting for the opportunity to let her talents shine in an Irish uniform. 
Before Notre Dame's 79­68 victory over TCU, Orlosky had played only 21 minutes and had scored Rene Ferran only two points all season, After tonight, she can Sports Writer anticipate a lot more playing time. 


"She really helped us tonight," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I thought she was the key-the player of the game. She turned us around ofT the bench." 
Orlosky had eight second-half points to bust open a TCU zone, and effectively, the game. When she entered the game, the Lady Frogs were down 47-37 with 15:34 to go. By the time Orlosky's scoring spree ended on a nice 16-foot jumper, the lead was 18 and only eight minutes remained. 
"(TCU) playing in a zone really helped her," McGraw said. "She's much better against a zone." 
Just as important as her shooting. however, was Orlosky's defensive play. She helped shut down the Lady Frogs' third leading scorer, Deana Giles. Giles finished with only four points, three rebounds, and seven turnovers. 
"My role is coming in and playing good defense, working the offense, and hitting the open shot, and it was there tonight," said Orlosky. 
Was it e••er. The Irish did a good job reversing the ball against 
, the TCU :lOne, and more often than not, Orlosky, setting camp around the 15-to-18-foot mark on t,he left wing, was wide open. Orlosky appeared to gain confidence as McGraw put faith in her freshman, leaving her in during a crucial time of the contest. The tentative style she had exhibited in her previous brief stints vanished as the game progressed. "She's just been waiting for her chance to get in the game," McGraw said. "She's only been playing three-or four-minute stretches, and tonight, she played a little longer than she had been, so she had a chance to feel comfortable." Orlosky, however, believed there was more to her stellar play than just getting more playing time. "You have to be ready to go all the time, even if it's only for two minutes or whatever," she said. "You've got to be concentrated, and I think I got my concentration down, went in 
see TCU I page 24 











