~----­

VOL XXIII NO. 86 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Candidates debate election issues 
By PETE LOFTUS candidacy. They cited as their News Writer strengths Loya's position as District Four Senator and 
The four tieknts for student Singh's as S.U.B. board man­body presidentfviee-president ager. The ticket promised to of­engaged in a debate Thursday, fer experience, and "real and diseussing such issues as co­tangible answers and results." residential housing, students' The ticket of Sanchez/Smith rights. and male/female rela-· cited for their qualifications tionships at Notre Dame. Sanchez's position as chairman 
The candidates for student of the .Judicial Council and body president and vice presi­Smith's as executive assistant dent are. respeetively: to Student Government. They 
•Vinny 
Sanchez and Melissa promised to protect the rights Smith of students, and make efforts 

•Sigi 
Loya and Haja Singh to increase social interaction, 

•Hob 
Pasin and Fred Tombar have more SYH's, and establish 

•Mark 
Bettencourt and Kevin the option of co-residential Craig housing. 


Thn format of the debate The ticket of Pasin/Tombar eonsist1~d of each tieket making felt that their main strength opening statPments followed by was their broad representation rnprPsentatives from The Ob­of the student body. Pas in is server and WVFl-AM posing Junior Class president and questions, with each ticket hav­
Tombar is Grace Hall co-presi­ing two minutes to answer. The dent. They felt that this combi­forum was then opened to 
nation resulted in both a 
questions from the genera.] 
knowledge of the "nuts andpublic, which was followed by bolts" of student governmen1dosing statements from each and an awareness of students' 
ticket. 
needs and concerns.
The ticket of Loya/Singh em­
The ticket of Betten­

phasized results as a measure of their competence for the see DEBATE I page 8 
South African police use tear gas and clubs on protesters 
JOIIANNESBURG. South ANC leader's release from nearby cricket grounds despite after tear gas was used, police were briefly detained when they Africa (API -Police used tear prison. a magistrate's ban on demon­said. A local anti-apartheid refused to obey an order to gas and clubs Thursday to dis­"We want to ensure he walks strations. group, the Alexandra Civic Or­leave the area. Police claimed perse hundreds of blacks out of that prison a free man ganization. claimed some some journalists provided protesting a tour by an English and lives safely in this country Police stopped all minibus would-be protesters were transportation to protesters 
as a free citizen," Law and beaten and that 30 were in­trying to reach the stadium.
cricket team that defied an taxis and most cars leaving the anti-apartheid boycott. Order Minister Adriaan Vlok township, removing any youths jured. Later, riot police with batons told a news conference in Cape they found on their way to the broke up a second protest by A Cabinet minister said con­Town. five-day test match between the The English team. is defying a more than 100 black youths tinuing unrest is prolonging English visitors and South ban on sports contacts with outside a downtown office 
South Africa's state of emer­In the township of Alexandra, Africa's national team. South Africa, designed to building housing the British gency and said threats against police arrested at least six A crowd of 2,000 people, protest South Africa's system Consulate. The protesters were Nelson Mandela from left-and blacks, saying they had com­mostly students, then assem­of racial segregation. chased through the streets even right-wing extremists are mandeered minibus taxis to bled at an intersection and Police said eight journalists though a British diplomat 
among the factors delaying the transport protesters to the were "dispersed peacefully" covering the confrontation urged police to let them stay. 
~ 

Freshman Soviet reformers say Formal changes not enough 
MOSCOW (AP) -Pro-democ­sion before the (party) racy reformers from within and congress" late in June, he said
cancelled 
outside the Communist Party in his office near the Kremlin. 
said Thursday the decision to A second party should be By MONICA YANT renounce its legal claim on formed unless the congress re­News Writer power is not enough to end moves conservatives from political repression and Communist Party leadership, Freshmen won't be dancing centralized controL said Yeltsin, who spoke Sunday the night away during Junior to the largest pro-democracy
• U.S., U.S.S.R. make headway 
Parent's Weekend, said the Of­rally in decades, at the foot of fice of Student Affairs when in arms control I page 6 Red Square. they postponed the Freshman Several hundred thousand Class Formal slated for Satur­"It is necessary to eliminate people rallied to demand that day, Feb. 16. (Communist) party organiza­the party abandon its guaran­
The dance was permanently tions in' the army, the police, teed leading role in society. cancelled by the Freshman the KGB, the courts, in all the At the Central Committee Class Council (F.C.C.) at their state institutions," said Yuri meeting that ended Wednesday, meeting last night. The repre­Mityunov, a spokesman for a the party did just that, approv­sentatives felt that rescheduling would-be opposition party, the ing President Mikhail Gor­the formal would only result in Democratic Union. bachev's platform of revoking conflicts with dorm formals Boris Yeltsin, who has the power monopoly in favor of and SYRs that have already pressed for greater reform, a multi-party system. been planned, said F.C.C. Vice cast the only vote against the "The discussion was very Chairperson Scott Boehnen. changes Wednesday in thfl pol­hot," Yeltsin said. "The pro­
As an alternative, the fresh­icy-making Central Committee posals were diametrically op­men may schedule a dress­-because, he said, they did not posed. It was not easy." down dance. Boehnen said a go far enough. Mityunov said pressure for committee has been formed to "I had grounds to vote reform is moving to the streets, look into the possibility of a against, but I think, however, and cited the growing number
Demonstrators gather in Red Square for the largest pro-democracy 
that the platform represents, if of angry crowds across the So-
rally in The Soviet Union in decades, where Central Committee member 
not a step then a half-step for­
Boris Yeltsin encouraged formation of a second party. 
see FORMAL I page 6 ward, and that lessens the ten-see REFORMS I page 6 



page 2 l:·:j Ob.3e:rvcr Friday, February 9, 1990
_________________:..:.:..:;_=.:.::!...:.:::.:.___________________::~.-:..:.::.~::..:.....:..:= 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The Bradys are. a fine bunch for family TV 
They're back.-------­
Tonight marks the mturn of the Bradys. the Bradys of the '90s. Television might 
not ever be the same again. 

The Bradys are a cult legend in my book. They share the throne of syndication with "Gilligan's Is­land" and "Leave It to--------­Beaver." They're untouchable, right up there with SnuiTalu­pagus from "Sesame Street" and "Mr. Hogers." 
My heart skipped a beat when I heard they were back. This won't be one of those cheesy remakes with all new actors murder­ing the characters we know and love. 
When the Bradys do it, they do it right; the entire original family, even Alice, except for Marcia, is back. (We won't ask what happened to Marcia. We're afraid to. It could be one of those Hollywood "fame leads to drugs, drugs lead to crime, the next thing you know you're in a prison cell next to a 'woman in comfortable shoes'" stories.) 
Although I'm elated that my favorite fam­ily has come home, I'm having mixed emo­tions about the new show. 
For starters, it's being touted as a drama. I don't think I like the idea of the Bunch taking on topics like Satan worshippers, euthanasia or Bobby's paralysis. 
The Bradys are, and always will be, a pleasant diversion from the evils of the world. I'd much rather see them worry over Greg's premature balding or Alice's chicken fried steak. Leave the issues to Connie Chung. 
I'm also worried about Peter, who's mar­ried to his boss. Although we are in the '90s, an era of equal employment opportu­nities, this doesn't seem right. llow can 
Peter argue with Jan that "girls are sissies," when his job and marriage will be on the line for such a chauvinistic remark? 
But the big question is: why isn't Sam, the butcher/lover, back? Okay, so he supposedly lnft Alien for another piece of meat in an earlier n~union episode. 
Couldn't the producers have him begging on his hands and knees for her to take him back? Not only will Alice suffer, but the family won't get that great discount on round steak. 
All things considered, I should be grateful that they've returned. Now I can watch them in time warp fashion: reruns by day, new episodes once a week. 
No matter how dramatic the writers get, the Bradys will never change. Maybe we'll all get lucky and Jan will have to get glasses again, or Bobby will turn Peter's hair orange again. It's reason enough to stay home on a Friday night. Well ... maybe. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The-Obset:Ver-
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Procbtian Criadna Oritz LlaaEUln  Election Special Sara Marley Matt Gallagher  Sporlll Frank PMIDr  
Chris Donnelly  
t-.  Alison Cocks  ~  
Tim O'Keefe  Kwin Reildl  
Sandra Wiegand  Ado.lgn  Becky Pichler  
Shannon Roach  
~ Cesar Capella Deirdre Bell  Amy Eckert Kerry Clair Kathleen O'Conner Maria Blohm  Aoc.nl Colleen Cronin Paul Pearson Br1111 Grunert  

!•e Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) 1s published Monday ~"Jgh Friday except during exam and vacat1on periods. The arver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
• · ·ts are reserved. 
•.•. __________________J 

OF INTEREST Sunday mass at PW has been cancelled this JPW Registration Packets can be pick1~d up Mon-
week. Liturgy will resume next week. day and Tuesday between 2 and 10 p.m. in the Dooley Boom on the first floor of LaFortune. This packet in­An exhibition by Richard Diebenkorn, an inter­cludes event tickets and a calendar of events for the 
nationally acclaimed American artist, will open Sunday at weekend. If you have questions call 239-6028 Mon-Thurs. the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibition features figura­7-9 p.m. tive and representational graphic works and will show 
Students who received SYR surveys should re­
through April 8. 

turn them to their hall presidents by this Sunday, Feb. 11. 
WoRLD 

Rather than calming fears of economic col-The Israeli army has introduced ajeep-mounted lapse in East Germany, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's advo-gravel thrower that spews out 600 egg-sized rocks a cacy of one currency for East and West Germany has ere-minute in its latest effort to halt rioting in the occupied ated worries about continued prosperity at home. territories, Israel radio said Thursday. The new device is Economists and investors have reacted negatively to the latest addition to the army's growing anti-uprising Kohl's proposal for swift introduction of the West Ger-arsenal that also includes tear gas and various types of man mark in East Germany, whose own mark is not con-rubber, plastic and metal bullets. Israel has drawn intcr­vertible. Some accuse him of trying to boost his chances national criticism for firing guns at stone-throwers, most in the December elections. of them children and teen-agers. 
NATIONAL 

The number of new AIDS cases in the United Covenant House, the New York shelter for States rose just 9 percent in 1989 -the slowest increase runaways that has been shaken by charges of sexual mis­ever-but the disease is spreading faster among hetero-conduct by its founder and president. ran newspaper ad­sexuals, newborns, women and Southerners, federal AIDS vertisements Thursday urging contributors to continue specialists reported Thursday. A total of 35,238 AIDS their support. "This work cannot continue without you. cases were reported in 1989 by the national Centers for Please help us," said the full-page ad in New York News­Disease Control, compared with 32,196 reported during day and the Daily News. 1988. 
The prosecution in Joseph Hazelwood's trial The number of homosexual couples in the na­in Anchorage tried Thursday to bar from evidence the re­tion might be indicated by a new category on the 1990 sults of blood tests on two Coast Guardsmen who tested census, according to a leading gay and lesbian group. But positive for alcohol and marijuana after the nation's the Census Bureau doesn't ask people their sexual prefer­worst oil spill. The former Exxon Valdez skipper's attor­ence, agency officials point out. Ivy Young of the National neys want the evidence admitted because the two men Gay and Lesbian Task Force says she is encouraging gay were assigned to a radar monitoring station that was couples to "answer the census honestly," by listing them­supposed to track the ship's movements and notify it if selves as "unmarried partners." any problems appeared imminent. 
Andy Rooney was suspended for three months Deposed Panamanian dictator Manm~l Noriega 
can be tried in a U.S. criminal court on drug charges inwithout pay Thursday, although he denied making racial spite of his prisoner of war status, a federal judge in Mi­comments attributed to him in a gay magazine. He was ami ruled Thursday. U.S. District Judge William Hoevelersuspended after meeting with CBS News president David brushed aside defense arguments that Noriega must beBurke. "I guess he (Burke) believes the person who said I transferred to his homeland or a third country until ansaid it," Hooney said, referring to Chris Bull, the reporter international tribunal determines his status under thewhose interview with Hooney will be published Friday by Geneva Convention. 
The Advocate, a bimonthly magazine based in Los Ange­les. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for February B. 1990 
INDIANA 
The mayors of South Bend, Mishawaka and Elkhart Thursday criticized an Indiana House bill that would require cities throughout the state to begin collective bargaining and bind­
Volume in shares 
ing arbitration measures. At a press conference 
176.24 Million

in Mishawaka's City llall,the mayors spoke out against a bill that would permit collective bar­gaining for state employees, university employees, including faculty, non-teaching publi<; school per­NYSE Index sonnel, local police and lire employees, license 184.09 ~ .22 branch workers and lottery commission employ­
S&P Composite 
ees. 

332.96 ~ 0.79

Abortions could not be obtained in pub­Dow Jones Industrials lic hospitals and doctors would have to perform 2644.37 {f 4.28 viability tests before aborting a fetus older than 20 weeks under legislation approved by an Indi­Precious Metals ana Senate committee Thursday. House Bill 1034, Gold {f $ .60 to $418.701 oz. sponsored by Sen. Joseph Corcoran, H-Seymour, 
Silver{} 1.3¢ to $5.34 I oz.
was sent to the Senate floor on a 7-5 vote by the Senate Judiciary Committee. But two senators 


Source: AP 
who voted for the bill said they might vote against it on the floor . 

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 9. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure
®© 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Yesterday's high: 59 
Yesterday's low: 36 
Forecast: Cloudy and windy today with a 30 percent chance of show­ers. Highs from the mid­dle to upper 40s before falling during the after­noon. Decreasing cloudi­ness, windy and cooler tonight. Lows in the up­per 20s. Mostly sunny and very cool Saturday. Highs in the middle 30s. 


Friday, February 9, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Student gov't reports to Trustees 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Assistant News Editor 
Student Government pre­sented two reports to the Board of Trustees Thursday. 
One of the reports addressed the Freshman Year of Studies and the other looked at six past reports and examined the progress towards the recom­mendations stated in the re­ports. according to Student Body President Matt Breslin. 
One of the main issues pre­sented in the report on the f<reshman Year was article 
12.1 which states that any stu­dent who does not satisfy the requirements of the Freshman Year must remain in this pro­gram of studies. The report, which was organized by Senior Christine Boron, recommended that Freshman Year hire a new counselor to help handle the re­tained sophomores. 
Breslin said that the report also recommended a change in the Freshman Year peer coun­selors. Presently there is a sys­tem of one to one, senior to freshman counseling. The re­port asked that there be group counseling of six to ten stu­dents in groups that meet dur­ing freshman orientation. 
Also discussed was Freshman Orientation, said Breslin. The report recommended a Fresh­man Orientation of four days, instead of the present two days. The report also suggested a better balance between the so­cial and intellectual aspects of Notre Dame during Freshman Orientation. 
The second report, said Bres­lin, was a result of the October meeting with the Board of Trustees. Student Government decided to look at six past Board of Trustees reports. Se­nior Mike Carrigan chaired this report, said Breslin. 
One of the past reports that 
was re-examined was the re­
port on apartheid. Breslin said 1hat Junior Maeve O'Donovan organized this follow-up report. The Board of Trustees affirmed their original conviction to keep a watch on the situation in South Africa and divest if the situation worsened. 
Sophomore Dan Hickle orga­nized a progress report on co­residentiality, said Breslin. He said that many members of the Board were favorable to the idea of co-ed housing, but would like to get more response from the student body. "The Board's response was encour­aging," said Breslin. He said he believes that co-ed housing will be a reality in the near future. 
Three other progress reports included a report on the honor code, organized by Junior Melissa Smith, a follow-up re­port on intellectual life by Se­nior Ken Scheve, and a progress report on student parking compiled under the lead of Senior Jim Schilder, Breslin said. 

l! 

Student Manager Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available. 
Pick them up in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Application deadline is February 23, 1990. 
Questions? Call: 239-7521. 
s position in ·ca addressed 
positions and of the Catholic various Central nations were· 
by· Margaret · · member of the · titnte Advisory nru•fess<·)·r at 
·~"+'""' 

events, of six in November, as prQtests far back the Duarte administration. Current ev~nts and issues in Guatemala, Honduras, 
·· Niearagua, and Panama we:re also discussed. Cr·ahan stressed that mem~ hers ofthe Church represent all parts of the political spectrum, not simply the left 
it is to CUT>~~rf 
·' human rights in Latin America, Her most recent publications include articles titled "Cuba: Religion and the Central American Crisis" and "Religion and Politics in Revolutionary Nicaragua." 
The lecture, titled "Catholicism and the Central American Crisis: The role of the Church as a Mediator," was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, and was held at the Center for Social Concerns Thursday 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MADDOG, 

THJE DREAM TJEAM 
the center it officially endorses. She also high­lighted the Church's efforts to find political and economic models for reform within Latin America rather than to import peace and prosperity. Crahan has a doctorate in Latin American History Columbia University; has written extensively the role of religion, Church, Catholicism, 


GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONTANA 
©®lMl® [fu®w® U[fu® IP)®@U @IYilMllMl®[i' ®iJ ')Y®IYI[i' O~iJ®~



__Ihe.:::::=:...Observer_-==--­
Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m. Friday, February 9. 
News Editor  Advertising Manager  
Sports Editor  Ad Design Manager  
Accent Editor  Production Manager  
Viewpoint Editor  OTSManager  
Saint Mary's Editor  Controller  
Photo Editor  Art Director  
Systems Manager  

A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to A1ison Cocks by 2 p.m. Monday, February 12. 
Enjoy the invigorating and challenging experience of 
living in the awesome Rocky Mountains. St. Mary Lodge & Resort, Glacier Parks best, now hiring for the 1990 summer season. 
Come see us on campus at the Career Placement Services February 12th and 13th to learn more. Schedule an interview through your Career & Placement Services now, or call 
1-800-252-6279. 
Don't pass up the opportunity of a life time! 
All performances 8 p.m., O'Lauplin Auditorium 
Series subscriptions and individual performance tickeu available at the Saint Mary's box ofr~ee. loe~ted in O'l.aughlin Auditorium. TK:kets by phone at 219 I 284-4626. VIS4, MuterCard order~ only. For updated program information. call the Saint Mary's Campus Ewnts Hotline, 674·0900, category 1740. 

~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil Saint Ma~'s Col~ iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~
• NOTRE DAME ·INDIANA 
~~II/IJF/ 
at Saint Mary's College 1989-90 PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 
Friday, February 9 CHAMBER BLUES with CORKY SIEGEL & THE CONSORTIUM STRING QUARTET 
Friday,April20 
CHICAGO CITY LIMITS 

Friday, February 9, 1990
The Observer
a e 4 

Oil spill off California stationary 

HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. (AI') -A drifting oil slick threatened miles of beaches and estuaries Thursday after a tanker apparently was punc­tured by its own anchor and spilled 295,000 gallons of Alaskan crude oil. 
But favorable offshore wind held the slick stationary against an onshore current about a mile out to sea from this popular Southern Califor­nia recreational area. And calm seas eased the effort to skim the oil from the surface. 
The 811-foot tanker Ameri­can Trader, which had been fully loaded with 21 million gallons, lay off the coast sur­rounded by a floating oil con­tainment boom and Coast Guard vessels. 
The purple slick covered an area measuring 2 1/2 miles by 4 miles, said Coast Guard Lt. Vin­cent Campos. Three skimmer boats were at work and five more were en route to the area, off the Orange County coastline about 35 miles southeast of Los Angeles. 
Along the shore, booms were laid to protect the environmen­tally delicate estuaries at the Santa Ana Hiver mouth, Ana-

SOVIET UNION 
Intercollegiate Tour , July 1990 Led by Prof. James Butterfield (PHd, Notre Dame) For information contact: Western Michigan U. Office of International Affairs Kalamazoo, Ml 49008 Tel. toll free 1-800-876-3951 
Due to a lack of snow, the Freshman Snow Tubing Trip to St. Patrick's Park, scheduled for Sun., Feb. 11 has been canceled. Refunds will be made on: Tues. Feb. 13th 2:30-4:30 -and-Thurs. Feb. 15th 2:30 -4:30 in the O'Hare Lounge, next to the Information Desk in LaFortune. Please bring ticket and student ID. 
NAVY 

Benefits as a Student 
•earn $13.1-100 a year for up to two years to use any way you choose 
ENGINEERING

• additional $4,000 bonus paid when you enter program
• NO drills, ~niforms or summer obligationsAN INVESTMENT • 100% medocal and dental coverage 
•outstanding, low-cost travel op_portunities toIN YOUR FUTURE Europe, Japan and other exciting places 
• earlyjob security 
Training after College 
. • 16 weeks at Orticer Candidate School and commissioning as a Navy orticer 
• 
6 months of graduate level engineering education in Orlando, Florida 

• 
6 months of hands-on engineering training at a prototype trainer in Idaho, New York or Connecticut 

• 
13 weeks of education in personnel, materials management, engineering systems and more 

The Navy Engineer 

• 
starting pay of up to $27,000 with increases to more than $55,000 after five years 

• 
work with space age technology and highly 


trained tech11icians • opportunity for world travel ' 
• 
continued professional growth and an opportunity for Navy pai<l graduate school 

• 
retirement with full benefits after only 20 years 


active Navy service • outstanding marketability 
Navy engineering representatives will be Engineering, math, physics and chemistry majors on campus: with at least a 3.0 GPA, 3.3 and above preferred. 
heim Bay, Bolsa Chica Wetlands 
and upper Newport Bay -all 
teeming with wildlife. 
Biologist Esther Burket said 
oil coming ashore on a sandy 
beach would be less harmful 
than in an estuary such as 
Bolsa Chica, where birds would 
ingest the petroleum with the 
plants they eat. 
"Once it gets onto vegetation, 
it's a nightmare," Burket said. 
Six oil-soaked sea birds were 
cleaned and cared for by volun­
teers at a lifeguard headquar­
ters. Six other birds were dead. 
Curt Taucher, a Fish and 
Game spokesman, said there 
was some initial concern about 
migrating gray whales but that 
was not the biggest worry. 
"The concern is for the 
furbearing animals, harbor 
seals, animals like that," he 
said. 

The broad. sandy beach at . this eity of 180.000 in northern Orange County, plus Bolsa Chica State Beach to the 
northwest and Huntington 
State Beach to the south, draw 
millions of sunbathers and surfers during summer. 
Houtine alcohol and drug tests were given to the ship's captain, identified as Hobert Laware, and the first mate, but 
California Oil Spill 
results were not immediately available, officials said. There were no formal discus­

By Thursday evening the oil 
sions on use of chemical dis­
Cargo: 21 million gallons of 

slick had covered an area 2.5 
Alaskan crude
persants, said Rolf Mall, deputy 

miles by four miles. It was held
regional manager for the state 

offshore by a favorable wind. 
Department of Fish and Game. Damage from chemicals has to be weighed against harm from 
American Trading
the oil, he said. 
Transportation Co.
"The further out it gets and the deeper the water, the more 
Shipping Co, USA
likely it is we'll use them," Mall said. 
Mindful of the massive Exxon Valdez spill in Alaska last year, California politicians rushed to call for tighter controls on oil shipping and stiffer penalties for spills. 

"This is a wake-up call," said UNITED sTAlES 
__ -­
Lt. Gov. Leo McCarthy. 
---~;)(\~0
The American Trader was chartered by British Petroleum 
25 miles 

Oil Shipping Co. USA, said Joe f--------l Braderich, manager of the firm's Los Angeles field office. 
The spill began Wednesday AP/Karl Tate afternoon while the tanker ma­neuvered 1 1/2 miles off Hunt­ington Beach to moor at a nest of mooring buoys at an 
Don't drink and drive 
offloading station for an 

A public service message from The Observer underwater pipeline leading to · a refinery on shore. 


.. 
0
0 
ut > G) 
-
"0 
c 

0 
.0

il ·­
G)
c "'c 

Q SEE Cfi~OSO LIVE lOPM F~IDfiY rtiGHT fiT
" 0 

Picasso Rembrandt Remington M.C. Escher Dali 
*Full Color Reproduction of the works of over 100 Master Artists! 
*Fantastic Low prices: Most Large Prints are 3 for only $15! 
*Beautiful Laser Photos: 3 for $15! 
*Wide Variety of Photographs... Beautiful Landscapes to High Tech., Etc. 
*This is Your Last Opportunity to Decorate Inexpensively 
and having completed one year of calculus and one year of calculus-based physics are eligible. You need only submit a copy of your transcripts to determine your initial eligibility. Qualifying 
FEBRUARY 14-15, 1990 students will then be offered a cost· free, no obli ation tour of a Navy base at San Diego, 
a 1 orma, including a tour of a nuclear-powered submarine ancl/or surface ship. We are wnvinrecl this is TilE !lEST 
For information call: PROFESSIONAL F.NGINF.F.RING OPPORTUNITY AVAILABLE TO A COLLEGE 
1-800-527-8836 

STU DENT TODAY. 
NAVY OFFICER 
You arel.omorrow. 
You are the Navy. 
Friday, February 9, 1990 The Observer page-S 

Democrats plan to reduce
Bishop'S 

defense spending further
d·........_.. 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Con­Secretary Dick Cheney and Gen. gressional Democrats seem Colin Powell, the chairman of 
"The Bishop's Letter is a moral not an economic not pretend to be on economics Professor Charles the Notre Dame of Economics o in his lecture Pastoral Justice for All. 

Alumni-Senior CLUB Bartender Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor La Fortune. 
* Deadline for applications is March 7th 
near a consensus that they can slice $4 billion to $7 billion or more out of President Bush's 1991 defense budget, fight off Bush-recommended cuts in some domestic programs and limit next year's deficit to $64 billion. 
They also believe they might be able to find a bit of start-up money for domestic initiatives in such areas as education, child care and nutrition. 
But even as they solidify their plans for reworking the $1.23 trillion spending plan Bush un­veiled last week, Democrats are still groping for an approach to one of this year's hottest issues: whether to cut the Social Security payroll tax. 
Questions are also arising over whether Congress' major­ity party can successfully write its own budget without Repub­lican support. 
An offbeat but still striking illustration of the Democrats' desire to alter Bush's budget came Thursday when Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa., chairman of the House Appropriations defense subcommittee, brandished a mock Viking battle axe during a visit to the panel by Defense the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
''I'm afraid that's the mood of what we're going to have to put up with the rest of this year, because from what I'm hearing from members them­selves, Republicans and Democrats, they expect a peace dividend," said Murtha, a mod­erate Democrat. "Peace divi­dend" refers to possible sav­ings from cutting back the mili­tary in response to a reduced from the Soviet Union and its allies. 
Democrats pressed their of­fensive on other fronts as well. At the Joint Economic Commit­tee, Chairman Lee Hamilton, D­Ind., challenged Bush's claim of having submitted a budget that met his campaign pledge of "no new taxes." 
"In the budget, you submitted 33 revenue changes and 20 of them raise revenue, totaling an increase of $13.9 billion," Hamilton told Bush's chief eco­nomic adviser, Michael Boskin. 
Boskin argued that there were only minor tax increases, and that most of the receipts would come from new and higher fees for government ser­vices. 



As wall space around campus is cluttered with assorted cam­paign posters filled with varying promises and platforms con­cerning how to make student life richer here at Notre Dame, the editorial staff of Dialogue at Notre Dame is eager to add its voice to the debate. We strongly support the ticket of Mark Bettencourt and Kevin Craig. 
Bettencourt and Craig have worked diligently on and have earned the respect of the members of the Hall President's Council, and in this capacity have listened and responded to the com­plaints and wishes of the student body. 
Bettencourt and Craig boast a substantial record of achieve­ment in their hall, and have not only been active, but effective in their work on assorted campus-wide issues. Bettencourt and Craig have proven themselves effective leaders and managers. 
They will fight to enact more positive measures for greater stu­dent security, and will propel student government into an ambi­tious effort to make Notre Dame a national and international for­um for wide-ranging dialogue. 
We humbly but heartily urge you to vote for Mark Bettencourt and Kevin Craig for Student Body President and Vice-President. 



Bettencourt Craig 
Student body President I Vice-President 1991 
Friday, February 9, 1990

page 6 The Observer 
Baker, Shevardnadze make headway 
MOSCOW (APJ _ The United States and the Soviet Union made headway Thursday to­ward new arms control agree­ments, and also considered a joint condemnation of Israel's resettlement of Jewish immi­grants on the West Bank. 
A half-dozen senior U.S. offi­cials made no mention of the Jewish settlers in a briefing summing up more than seven hours of talks between Secre­tary of State James Baker and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze. 
Reforms 
continued from page 1 
viet Union demanding the ouster of hard-line local Com­munist leaders. 
Party secretaries in Vol­gograc:l. Tyumen. Chernigov and Sverdlovsk were removed in re­


;;.;.;.,;,.;;;.;.;;.;.;;.;.;..;.;.;;.;.;,..;..;..;.;.;...;..;...;;..;;;;.;;..;..;;,__...;..__...,.______......;;,___ purchases outlining the expec­
tations for the event.
Formal 

While Hamsay and Boehnen continued from page 1 said they understood that the University must place the image 
"grub dance" for later in the presnnted during JPW above 
· · h .d

semester. h 1f ot er socm unctwns, t ey sm 
l.ynn Ham say, council chair­that a formal policy on the pnrson, said the date would weekend regarding what can have been ideal for the formal, and cannot take place should bncausn, "Then~ really are no be devnloped. alternatives; there's rnally nothing to do." Lnonard agreed that the Uni­
Traditionally. the University versity's claim that "it's always has not plamwd activitins dur­been done that way" may not be ing JPW, said Karon Leonard, sufficient explanation for the assistant director of program­cancellation of such events. ming for StudPnt Activities. 
Leonard said shn had ap­
ROCCO'S
proved tlw dance. "not really 
HAIRSTYLING FOR 
thinking it would have as much 
of an impact as the Officn of 
Student Affairs did." 
ME\~EN
She said that although Stu­dl~nt Affairs had lward some rectors nxpn~ss eoncern about thn dance being held during JPW. freshman rnprnsentatives 
U:
met with their rectors and 
531 N. Michigan St.
found them "generally support­
ive" of the nvent. 
Phone 233-4957 
The postp01wrnnnt of the dance camn after Student Af­fairs nwinwed the concerns and decided that it would be in the best interest of the University and JI'W to hold the dance on 

anottwr date. ..
..

The F.C.C. drafted a letter to .. Father David Tyson, vice presi­.. dent of Student Affairs, re­..
..
questing a meeting to discuss the matter and future implica­
.... 

tions of the decision. .. 
The University's concerns .. about the off-campus event fo­
.... 

cused on the pre-formal social .. 
gatherings and possible viola­..
..
tion of the alcohol policy. Ham­
.. 

say and the F.C.C. arranged for .. precautions, ranging from .. meeting with rectors regarding ..
..
the akohol policy to handing 
.. 

out a statement with tieket ..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
.. 
.... 
..
..
..
..
.. 
However, Gennady Gerasimov. 
the Soviet Foreign Ministry 
spokesman, said, "It is quite 
possible that as a result of the 
Soviet-American talks a 
common vie~p?int will be ex­
pressed on this Issue, condemn­
ing Israel's attempt to resettle 
immigrants on someone else's 
occupied territory," 
"There are no differences between the United States and us on this issue," he said. 
A heavy influx of immigrants to Israel has been caused, in part, by the lowering of Soviet emigration barriers and by 
cent weeks. and activists said 6,000 people gathered in front of the party headquarters in Donetsk on Wednesday with a similar demand. 
Heformers in Saratov plan a rally Sunday to demand re­moval of their party leaders. 
Vremya, the main television news program, showed a rally in Donetsk on Thursday where limits o.n how man~ So~ie~ Jews the Umted States .Is willing to take in. . . 
The U.S. ~f~cials, speaki.ng only on conditiOn of anonymity, said Baker and Shevardnad~e made progress toward treaties to curb long-range nuclear weapons, ground troops, tanks and combat aircraft in Europe, and to ban production of chem­ical weapons. 
Both Shevardnadze and Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Bessmertnykh echoed the positive U.S. ap­praisal. 
people demanded the resigna­tion of Politburo member Yegor Ligachev, a leading conserva­tive. A commentator said most people at the rally supported Gorbachev. 
The official news agency Tass said officials of the Baltic mer­chant fleet decided to return more than 200 Communist po­litical officers on its ships to
jobs as mechanics, electricians 
and navigators, or assign them 
to shore duty.
Yeltsin said the party must reform itself, but the current strength of conservatives in the 
Central Committee, to which he 
belongs, complicates the task. 

GETACTIVE!! 
RECYCLE 

NOTRE DAME 
lil.iiii.MZ·Vt1 

a planet is a terrible thing to waste 
•Aluminum • Newspapers e Glass For more information contact Paul Ruesch 277-6172, or call 239-7668 
LNO 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1990 AT THE JACC 
EVENT 
HALF-COURT BASKETBALL WATER LACROSSE NERF FOOTBALL INNERTUBE WATER POLO RACQUETBALL SINGLES ARM WRESTLING BROOM BALL WHIFFLE BALL INDOOR SOCCER OBSTACLE COURSE RELAY VOLLEYBALL TABLE TENNIS DOUBLES WALLYBALL 
DUNK TANK OPEN SKATING 

When the Great 
American Dream isn't Great Enough 
Have you considered? 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR 
A one-year program located at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame for college graduates who are seriously interested in exploring a vocation as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
For information: 
Fr. John Conley, CSC Vocation Diredor Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 239·6385 
TIME  LOCATION  
8:30PM  PIT & GYM 4  
10:00PM  ROLF'S AQUATIC  
8:00PM  ARENA  
10:00PM  ROLF'S AQUA TIC  
8:00PM  RACQUETBALL CT  
10:30PM  FIELDHOUSE FLOOR  
10:30PM  ICE RINK  
9:00PM  ARENA  
8:00PM  GYMS #1 & #2  
11:00PM  FIELDHOUSE (EAST)  
8:30PM  FIELDHOUSE INFIELD  
10:30PM  FIELDHOUSE (WEST)  
8:00PM  RACQUETBALL CT2  
10:00PM  ROLFS -GATE 6  
MIDNIGHT-1 AM  ICE RINK  

{SPECIFIC TEAM SCHEDULES ARE POSTED OUTSIDE THE NVA OFFICE] 
ENTER GATE 2 OF THE JACC $1.00 ADMISSION AT THE DOOR SOUVENIR T-SHIRTS ON SALE $7.00 
.. 
BE A REAL CHAMPION-SUPPORT SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
............ ..: 
.................... 
... 
.........
Daily 9-6 Sat. 9-6 
NEXT TO VENTURE 

GRAPE AD . MISHAWAKA LATE NIGHT OLVMPICS IS SPONSORED BY NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 277-7946 PROCEEDS Will BE DONATED TO THE ST. JOE COUNTY SPECIAL OL VMPICS 
(blrago llalr('uttlngtO: 



~--------~---------~~------·-~-­
-----~~~~---­

Viewp.oint
Friday, February 9, 1990 
page 7 


P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor....... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen Viewpoint Edltor.. .................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Edltor....................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor.... .. ...John Blasi Systems Mgr....... Bemard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor.............................. Eric Bailey OTS Director................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor.. ............. Christine Gill Controiler ............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Election requires informed decisions 
Last night, a debate was held among the four tickets who would like to be elected Monday to the offices of Notre Dame's student body president and vice president. 
All four of the tickets are comprised of qualified and dedicated individuals, all of whom would no doubt do a good job as leaders of Notre Dame's student government. 
Two tickets, however, stand out from the others. The ticket of Vinny Sanchez and Melissa Smith, and the ticket of Rob Pasin and Fred Tombar both boast extensive experience in student leadership roles, and both have proposed plausible and real­istic goals for their administrations. 
We are unable, however, to wholeheartedly en­dorse either Pasinffombar or Sanchez/Smith. Although Pasin has been elected president of both the Sophomore and Junior Classes and would bring substantial experience to the job, his record is not without flaw. Sanchez has served as judicial coordinator and has very sound proposals for change, but there is unconvincing evidence that he would be able to carry_ those ideas to fruition. 
The vice presidential candidates on both tickets are exceptional. In fact, given our choice, a ticket consisting of both Fred Tombar and Melissa Smith would be ideal. 
Smith has extensive experience in the workings of student government, and she has demonstrated a clear ability to listen to students' concerns, work well with the administration, and get things done. 
Tombar, an outsider to Student Government would bring fresh and innovative ideas to the job: In .t~e debate, h~ demonstrated leadership. and his ab1hty to deal w1th complex ideas. 
The election of the student body president and vice president is extremely important, as it will de-. termine the course that student government will take over the next year. It is not a decision to be taken li~htly, and it is each individual student's re­sponsibility to become informed about the candi­dates, their positions, qualifications and goals. 
DOONESBURY 
HEY, JJ./ fJONT/iJORR.Y. NEU., I... H&Y! YfJJ'R& WHAT 15 H& /1/0N'T /AEARIN6 lH& SHIRJ' n;ex.tJCT­UN/JfiR5TANI1 I 64Ve YOU/ 
t-Y,THI1J' A WORIJ YOU~"~-~.,, 
YOU ANI? I 511/D HUT, 
MIKe WN'T ANYIAIAY. Mtl<f,! 
IXJINBtw? 

/ YOU60T
' 7HATRIGHT.' 
J!M~~~ :J.~~ 




LENIN 
1870-1924 
~ 

" l WON!kYI ~ow m~v GET 4\W\ro <?PIN uKG: m~T. ...'? ·· 
U.S., Japan must band together 
The U.S.-Japan relationship is becoming increasingly acri­monious. The current mood of mutual disdain and suspicion is discernible in a new book in which Japanese parliamentar­ian Shintaro Ishihara advocates that Japan "say no" to American trade demands. Cor­respondingly, U.S. Trade Rep­resentative Carla Hill has threatened that she will "crowbar" Japanese markets open, if necessary. 
Meanwhile, opinion polls in the U.S. suggest that Japan has replaced the Soviet Union as America's chief international nemesis. And in Japan, a Busi­ness Week poll indicates that much of the Japanese public believes that the U.S. has begun an irreversible decline. 
The ultimate question for Americans and Japanese is whether the current mood her­alds the beginning of the end for North Pacific cooperation. According to the former U.S. Ambassador to Japan, Mike Mansfield, the U.S.-Japan rela­tionship is the single most im­portant bilateral relationship in the world. Certainly, a break­down in the relationship could cause a serious crisis for the world's economic system. After all, trans-Pacific trade at $260 billion a year far surpasses trans-Atlantic trade at $170 billion. 
It is true that the U.S. and Japan have worked closely to­gether throughout the post-war period. Americans should re­member that Japan has been one of its most dependable al­lies. Whether it was during the Korean War or Vietnam con­flicts, Japan has consistently backed U.S. initiatives. Japan also has rarely dissented from 
U.S. policies in international economic organizations or the U.N. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The heart of a fool is in his
HOW IT/ 
WTMe 

mouth, but the mouth of a wise
5TANI? aeAR! 

man is in his heart.' 
""' 
Benjamin Franklin (1706-1790) 

Joseph L. Novak International Affairs 
Japan did not act this way because it had to. Rather, it did so out of genuine support for 
U.S. policy in Asia. In particu­lar, Japan appreciated U.S. re­sistance to the attempts of the Soviet Union and China to iso­late Japan and dominate Asia. It is now clear that the U.S. commitment to defend East Asia was the sine qua non of Japanese independence and economic reassertion. 
However, in 1990, all of this seems distant. With the advent of Gorbachev and the erosion of Chinese influence, the threat from communism is decidedly remote. Around the globe and in East Asia, Cold War alliances are being shrugged off. 
Today, trade issues, not secu­rity concerns, are at the center of the U.S.-Japan relationship. And whereas the U.S. used to be the relationship's dominant partner, Japan has arguably achieved economic superiority. This juxtaposition has led to 
American  resentment  of  
Japan's ability  to  enter  and  
dominate U.S. markets.  

This misplaced resentment of Japan's legitimate success is compounded by the valid com­plaint that Japan has failed to remove structural impediments to U.S. exports. Structural con­trols like Japan's strict regula­tions on government procure­ment and de facto rules on merchandise distribution have unnecessarily added to Japan's $55 billion trade surplus. Americans are surely correct in their perception that Japan supports free trade at the GATT Uruguay Round but not free trade in their own market. 
To its credit, Japan is actively reforming its internal market while cooperating with the U.S. in many other areas. For ex­ample, Japan recently opened up its telecommunications 
market to foreign bids. Addi­tionally, Japan has acted re­sponsibly as the world's largest creditor and has helped the 
U.S. by financing the federal budget deficit. 
Moreover, Japan has effectively cooperated with the 
U.S. by raising its development aid allotment. Japan is now the largest aid-giver in the world and according to the 1990 Japanese budget will give more than $10 billion this year. The 1990 budget also raises defense spending by six percent, thus decreasing the need for a defense shield the U.S. can no longer afford. 
Clearly, there is a world be­yond trade negotiations and the portents are that the U.S.­Japan relationship will continue to evolve towards more coop­eration, not less. One of the major factors in such growth will be Europe's continuing political and economic integra­tion. To the extent that Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union become lucrative markets, the primary beneficiary will be Western Europe, not the U.S. or Japan. 
In the trilateral world of the U.S., Japan, and Europe it will be Europe that will have the largest and fastest-growing market. If the U.S. and Japan are going to compete with this latter day "Holy Roman Em­pire" they must stop the public' bickering and start planning. Far from being putative adver-~ saries, the U.S. and Japan have much to gain by preparing in advance for the Pacific Century. 
Joseph L. Novak is a third year law student and is a regu­lar Viewpoint columnist. 

ELECTION SPECIAL
page 8 Friday, February 9, 1990 
Candidates express their views on the issues 
Sanchez/Smithmatching funds which were 
cancelled due to the snowball 
We believe that our diverse fight. We affirmed for the experience in student govern-Student Body their right not to ment and our working relation-be collectively punished for the ship with the administration incident; and we were success-makes us a valuable team for ful. The matching funds were the student body. After work-reinstated. ing together in student govern-Our platform presents many ment for two years, we believe ideas and proposals for that we have the experience to change. The biggest change we create change for the student want to make, however, is in body. the relationship between the 
Last semester, for example, administration and the student we worked with the current body. We want to insure that Student Body President and students have a voice in admin-Vice-President and the co-pres-istrative policy-making relating idents of HPC to get back hall to every aspect of student life 
Pasin/ Tombar 
An effective student govern­mlmt is predkated on the expe­rience of its leaders. We come from two diverse areas of stu­dent government, and we will draw on this broad base of inc volvement to efficiently accom­plish realistic objectives. 
Rob was the Sophomore Class President last year and is cur­rently the Junior Class Presi­dent; he has also served on ttie student government Budget Committee and two Board of Trustees Heports. These expe­rienees have given him a work­ing knowledge of the hierarchi­cal framework and basic proce­dures of student government, enabling him to evolve abstract student ideas into concrete Uni­versity policies. 
Fred is the co-president of Grace llall, and he has served on the SYH Policy Evaluation Committee, the Multi-Cultural Executive Council, and as an executive board member of the NAACP. These experiences have made Fred acutely sensi­tive to student interests and concerns. 
We are the only ticket to niTer this vital combination of a proven functional knowledge of student government and a broadly developed sensitivity to student needs. Our philosophy is that the most important funetion of student government is to represent the student body's interests before the administration, and our com­plimentary backgrounds estab­lish the necessary foundation for a student government dedi­cated to protecting student rights. 
"Pasin and Tombar...Putting You First." 
Editor's note: To ac­company our campaign coverage The Observer offered each ticket the opportunity to submit a statement of its princi­ples and goals. 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
court/Craig said that, if elected, they will "test the limits of the enormous potential" of student Government. As co-presidents of Flanner Hall. they feel that the role of student government should be expanded. 
Questions regarding co-resi­dential housing, male-female relationships at NO and Saint Mary's, and students rights generated varied responses among the four tickets. 
The Loya/Singh ticket said that the process of change in housing to co-residential would be a slow one, but one that is needed. The Sanchez/Smith ticket noted that co-residential housing is favored by the stu­dent body as well as the board of trustees, but that it would take strong action on the part of the students to put it into ef­fect. 
Hegarding male-female rela­tionships at Notre Dame, the Bettencourt/Craig ticket felt that student government should provide "academic, cultural, here at Notre Dame. Student action is necessary if we are to insure that students do not get overlooked in the University's transition to a research institu­tion. If you are concerned about the student life at Notre Dame and you want to see changes occur. vote for Vinny Sanchez and Melissa Smith. 

In the past three years. we have dedicated· ourselves to working for the students. In that time, we were successful in implementing changes for the student body from large issues such as reinstating matching 
Loya/Singh 

The roles of Student Body President and Vice President in­volve two separate aspects. First, they are the primary link between the student body and the administration and second, they are the managers of stu­dent government, a large stu­dent organization. 
These positions require spe­cial skills for each aspect and that is where our ticket stands out. Sigi served as a Student Body Senator and successfully worked with the administration on several issues. Raja's man­agement of the Student Union Board this year was notable and resulted in several large events and the formation of the new Club Coordination Council. 
In addition to experience, stu­dent government also needs good, feasible ideas that the students are interested in. Some of our main issues for next year center around better student input to the adminis­tration, increased emphasis on academic concerns and also stressing minority and women's issues. 
First, we hope to start a monthly forum with members of the administration so that 
student may voice their con-funds to smaller issues like ini­tiating the plans to remodel the Library Pit. 
We have implemented change in the past, and with your sup­port we can continue to commit ourselves to working for your interests to insure improve­ments in the Notre Dame com­munity. We want to see our campaign ideas for change ac­complished for the student body. We hope you are as con­cerned as we are about student life, and we hope you will sup­port us with your vote on Monday. Thank you. 
cerns and ask important ques­tions on a timely basis. To bet­ter accomplish student govern­ment's role in academics, we propose to create representa­tives within each college in order to work on stu­dent/faculty interaction, plan college events and relay student opinion to the administration and faculty of the college. 
Finally, with growing num­bers of women and minorities on campus, the time has come to address the issues especially affecting those groups. We plan to start a comprehensive complaint procedure through student government to report abusive incidents and to take action to correct them. 
The most important aspect of our platform recurs throughout these ideas and is reflected in our past accomplishments; it is representing the student body. Open forums, college represen­tatives and complaint proce­dures are all ways of letting the administration know what the student body is thinking and experiencing and this is the key responsibility of student gov­ernment. Please keep this in mind and check out the other ideas listed on our poster. After comparing all the tickets, we hope you consider us when voting. 
Bettencourt/ Craig 
Fellow students of Notre Dame: 
As students of Notre Dame, one of the few true interna­tional universities. we wrestle with the academic challenges this institution presents as well as encounter the numberless spiritual, intellectual, and cul­tural benefits Notre Dame af­fords. Notre Dame demands a grat deal from students. Notre Dame offers to students a great deal as well. We, Mark Bettencourt and Kevin Craig, want to help you command the opportunities and services a Notre Dame education includes. 
As your elected representa­tives, we aspire to fight for your concerns about the alarming trend towards larger class sizes and limited course offerings. We seek to defend your interests regarding in­creases in tuition and other student fees. and to require ac­countability for fees rendered. As Student Body President and Vice-President, we intend to embark on a concerted effort to improve campus security and to address off-campus crime. 
However, our primary objec­tive reflects your comments and criticism about daily life at Notre Dame. One word charac­terizes what we wish to be: re­sponsive. We want you to look upon student government as a resource for substantial impact on life at Notre Dame, your life at Notre Dame. 
Whether it regards attracting the foremost leaders from all walks of life to Notre Dame, or the information the Health Department, which we will cre­ate, disseminates across cam­pus. or perhaps the hours the laundry facilities in the Rockne Memorial are made available to students, we. assure you that your cares are our concerns. 
We invite the student body to look beyond what each candi­date claims to have done and to examine what we wish to do. Focus not merely on where we have been, but where we want 
Notre Dame to go. We decided to pursue the offices of Student Body President and Student Body Vice-President not only because of what these offices are. but also because of what they could become. We pledge the entirety of our innovation, energy and enthusiasm, and ask for your support. Thank you. 


Each of the four tickets made final statements after the question session. 
Craig stressed the need to in­crease student input and said that students should demand much from Notre Dame. A student government health de­partment, more campus phones, and better security arc all resources that he said were needed by students. 
Smith said that although many issues are taken light­heartedly now, these issues must not be taken lightheart­edly by next year's president and vice-president. She said her ticket focused on many realistic objectives. Sanchez added that he and Smith were well-pre­pared to work with or against the administration. 
Singh emphasized the diver­sity of experience of his ticket. He felt that his ticket had the skills of management and the ability to work through the administration. 
Tombar said that while ideas 
are important, ideas put into 
practice is what counts. He said 
that his ticket will fight for 
students' rights and encourage 
student involvement at NO. 
and social opportunities" to students. The Pasinffombar ticket felt that an "intellectual approach" was necessary for dissolving any tensions between male and female students, both at NO and Saint Mary's. 
Concerning students' rights, the Pasinffombar ticket felt that student government needed to be "more aggressive" in protecting students' rights against the administration. The Loya!Singh ticket stressed this also. Both tickets suggested that they would seek to embar­rass the administration publicly if traditional means of protect­ing a student's rights failed. 
The other tickets also stressed the need for protection of students' rights against the administration. 
Each ticket was asked, "If you could accomplish one con­crete thing next year, what would it be?" 
The Pasin/Tombar ticket sug­gested that they would institut~ a "corporate-sponsored lecture series." The lecture series would use funds solicited from corporations that recruit at NO to attract high-caliber speak­ers. Throughout the debate, both Tombar and Pasin re­ferred to this idea as a means to emphasize academics, and to shed light on many significant issues. 
The Loya/Singh ticket said they would strive to ensure that students have more say in the administration's policies. 
The Bettencourt/Craig ticket said they would create a "student government health de­partment." Noting that we live in a "complex age," Bettencourt said that this department would help educate students in such areas as dietary concerns. hypertension, and alcohol abuse. 
The Sanchez/Smith ticket would see that representatives from the four colleges become part of the Student Senate. They felt that problems with 
D.A.R.T. and class size could be alleviated if academics were represented jn the Senate. 
Responses varied when the candidates were asked if they felt that the NO infirmary should supply birth control and birth control counseling to stu­dents. 

Most of the tickets responded that they would investigate the students' needs for birth con­trol and birth control counsel­ing, and then work from there. However, the Pasin/Tombar ticket felt otherwise. 
"Let's be realistic," said Tombar. "This is a Catholic in­stitution." Tom bar felt that be­
cause Notre Dame had a duty to carry out the "Catholic mis­sion" and the Catholic Church's position on birth control is clear, his ticket would not sup­port the infirmary's supplying birth control. 
Concerning the role of female students at NO, Smith said that it was necessary to "enhance female leadership roles." She felt that women have been "molded" into the male society of NO over the past 16 years. Tombar made similar com­ments about the role of minori­ties at ND. 
All four tickets stressed 'the need for more funding for the Center for Social Concerns. Bet­tencourt suggested that course credit be ofTered for certain so­cial services in order to get more students involved. 
ELECTION SPECIAL 


Friday, February 9, 1990 page 9 
Excerpts from debate 
Editor's note: Followmg ex­cerpted portions taken from Thursday's debate among the candidates for student body president and vice president. 
IF YOU COULD ONLY AC­COMPLISH ONE CONCRETE THING DURING THE NEXT YEAR WHAT WOULD IT BE? 
SINGH: "One of the most im­portant things that we are striving for is not one tangible result that can be shown at one particular time, but rather an ongoing process that would allow the students at this Uni­versity more say in the policies that are made here. The admin­istration of this school has constantly pursued a policy where they make their decision and give to the students. This is something that we feel we need to work to change and we have some good ideas of how we want to do that. One of our main ideas is to increase the visibility of Student Senate. Student Senate right now is a body which consists of about 25 people which meet generally within its own group. 

TOMBAR: "If Rob and I were to accomplish one thing next year that would be to establish here at the University of Notre Dame a corporate-sponsored lecture series. Let me explain what I mean by a corporate­sponsored lecture series. The University of Notre Dame de­serves to have higher-caliber speakers and better speakers and more nationally and inter­
there's one area where we're to have to be upheld. And, at have noted, on the demand of Matching Funds issue, the nationally renowned speakers lacking, there's no the present, birth control is not the students. It is a practical snowball fight. ... We want to on this campus. But, to be hon­representation from the col­within the mission statement of problem and there are a lot of see from now on that our est, the money just isn't here leges. We have no academic the University... For that health connotations involved in rights are protected, are en­within Student Government. representation on our Student reason, it wouldn't become a contraception, especially its use sured. But if we solicit donations from Senate. reality necessarily but the in avoiding transmitted dis­corporations who actively come question is asked whether or eases such as AIDS. I think SMITH: "Why is it that rec­
SHOULD THE INFIRMARY

and recruit here at the Uni­not it should be. And whether that is something that the tors take control and ... deal versity and other corporations PROVIDE BIRTH CONTROL or not it should be is whether University cannot deny. And with issues when students are from around the country we AND/OR BIRTH CONTROL or not the students want it and something that as a diverse fully capable? We're adults can pull these big-name speak­COUNSELING? need it and feel that it is school with a lot of different here.... We're fully capable of ers in. And this would stimulate necessary. If there's not a need cultures and a lot of different dealing with the alcohol pol­intellectual and political con­CRAIG: "My response to such out there, then there isn't a backgrounds, it is something icy .... We're fully capable of cerns here on campus. a controversial question is that purpose for it. But if there is a that we need to take into ac­having academic freedom. 
I feel counseling is a necessary need, then we need it there, count. Our stance on this We're fully capable of having
BETTENCOURT: "In the next part (of university life), and regardless of the Catholic particular issue, first of all, to our rights as students en­year the one tangible result ... that should be given from the mission. The entire student gauge whether or not it is an sured." would be the creation of the Infirmary. We have looked into body isn't comprised of issue, and if it is, it is student government health de­creating a student health de­Catholic students. We do have something that needs to be LOYA: "Year of Intellectual partment. We've talked at partment incorporated into significant numbers who are of looked at. And if there was de­Life.... We are all here to be­great length with the director Student Government. Such a· different faiths and denomina­mand from students, we would come educated. The best way to of University Health Services department would look into tions. And is it fair for the Uni­do the best within our power to do that is interaction with the Mrs. Carol Seager. We that question, and the role of versity to deny them the right get it there." faculty ... " expressed our concerns about the Infirmary as far as birth to have appropriate health the lack of information made control and birth control coun­care? For this reason, we need TOMBAR: "Let's be honest: PASIN: "Year of the Poor. readily available to students, seling and other pressing to ask the student body what birth control at the University Because this is a Christian uni­ranging from dietary concerns, health concerns as they arise. they think. If this needs to be a of Notre Dame? It's an issue versity, since we all members of hypertension, cholesterol to al­The administration obviously referendum on a ballot where we think about and we laugh this community, we are called cohol and substance abuse and controls the Infirmary. As far people can actually check it off, about it, but we are here at to serve. The goal this yearsexually transmitted diseases. as distributing birth control, and the whole student body has Notre Dame and Notre Dame is would be to educate and to en­We live in a very complex age. the administration strongly op­a voice, then that's what is nec­a Catholic institution. And as a dow the students with sensitiv­Notre Dame Student Gov­poses it.. ... This student health essary. If the student body Catholic institution, it's Notre ity to the causes and results of ernment must make the effort board would work with the ad­wants to see it, it's something Dame's duty to carry out the poverty. Many students here to be aggressive towards ministration and possibly the Infirmary will need to in­Catholic mission. .. . The are already serve through the student issues of health. reaching a compromise and corporate, then we should have Catholic Church's position on Center for Social Concerns in 
finding the reason why they op­it regardless of the Catholic the birth control issue is very many capacities. However, I 
SMITH: "Something that has pose it, obviously the Catholic mission. But I have to question clear. I think that regardless of don't think there's enough edu­been talked about the last three tradition. With cooperation we first and foremost whether or Rob's (Pasin) or my own per­cation about the systemic years that the student body has could be responsive to the not the student body needs it.. .. sonal opinion on the birth con­causes of poverty. Students never seen a significant result, needs that arise. The counsel­And if they do, then we'll get it trol issue, we must look at here, when we graduate from although there is something in ing is obviously a need. for the student body, regard­what this University believes Notre Dame, we are going to the planning stages now, is re­less of the Catholic mission. and what the Catholic Church be the leaders of the country vamping the Student Senate. SMITH: "That is a very inter­believes. When a student and the leaders of the world. In We've had complaints all along esting question, whether or not SINGH: "One of our primary chooses to come to Notre order to fulfill our obligation that Student Senate is an inef­the University should provide tenets of our platform is that if Dame, they choose to come to a as Christians, we have to fullyfective body, and we've seen birth control and counseling at the role of Student Government Catholic institution. Some of its understand how to stop the some improvement. This past the University of Notre Dame. is to press forth with the Uni­policies are dictated by the roots of poverty ... " year Vinny (Sanchez) had a That goes hand in hand with versity in some old traditional Catholic Church .... Knowing the constitutional amendment to the controversial issue that formats, to take into account Catholic Church's position on it BETTENCOURT: "Yeu ~ dissolve the office of the Om­we've had in the past years, as some new things that need to and knowing that Notre Dame Change.... Look around our budsmen, which is a body that to whether or not gay/lesbian be dealt with. This does not is a Catholic school .. . Rob world or across the globe.wasn't necessarily pertinent to clubs should be recognized here necessarily imply that it should (Pasin) and I would have to say Things are changing so quickly. the workings of student gov­at the University ... I think it be done in a rash and quick no, that we do not support the We would hope, in making it ernment. Another concern is goes back, ultimately, to the manner, like putting something option of birth control in the the Year of Change, in conjunc­that Student Senate does not Catholic mission of the Univer­like contraceptives in the Uni­Infirmary." tion with the administration, represent the entire student sity. And the mission statement versity Health Services. How­FILL IN: "YEAR OF THE they would allow us . . . an op­body. You're represented by of the University is that this is ever, it should be something " portunity to reflect on the way members of the hall council, by a Catholic institution and that the University, through the the world is today. Problems class officers, and therefore the Catholic philoso­Student Government, should be SANCHEZ: "Year of Student like poverty, ... of racism and coordinators of various phy and teachings about open to looking at, and should Rights.... Look back to the sexism as we enter the '90's ... 


MUSIC Loni Brooks, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m. $6 Boathouse Blues Band, Club 23 St. Paul and the Martyrs, Alumni-Senior Club, 9 p.m. 
~ 
ON CAMPUS 

·c 
Caruso, dance band, Theodore's, 10 p.m. Late N~ht Olympics, JACC, 9 p.m.-4 a.m. 
'"'0 
Corky iegel Chamber Blues, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 
~ 
8 p.m. 

MUSIC The Foggy Nights, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. $4 Pre-Sweat ltchies, Club 23, 9 p.m. 
~ 

Phoenix, McCormick's, 9 p.m. Misfits In disguise, Alumni-Senior Club, 10-11 p.m.
~ 
ON CAMPUS Arden Trio, Annenburg Auditorium, 2 p.m. 
~ 
::s 

Dance Party, Theodore's, 1 0 p.m. C\$ 
....... 
BCAF Fashion Show, Mono$ram Room at the JACC, 8 p.m. Tickets $4 in advance, 6 at the door. 
cr.J. 

NOTRE DAME Friday "Parenthood", Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. "Chocolat", Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45p.m. 
Saturday Winter Movie Fest, Cushing 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "Born on the Fourth of July", 7 and 9:50p.m. "Drivin~ Miss Daisy", 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Heart ondition", 7:10 and 9:10 p.m. "Steel Magnolias", 7:15 and 9:35p.m. "Loose Cannons", 7:40 and 9:40p.m. "Tremors", 7:20 and 9:20p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "Stanley &Iris", 7:40 and 9:50p.m. 
~ 
"Back to the Future II", 7 and 9:30p.m.
r.;::: 
"Internal Affairs", 7 and 9:30p.m. 
FORUM "Roger &Me", 7:40 and 9:40p.m. "Hard To Kill", 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Stella", 7 and 9:20p.m. 
TOWN AND COUNTRY "The War of the Roses", 7:15 and 9:45p.m. "Always", 7 and 9:30p.m. "Flashback", 7:20 and 9:40p.m. 
100 CENTER "Christmas Vacation", 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Tango & Cash", 7 and 9:00p.m. 
-
Lavish 
CHRIS DONNELLY ALISON COCKS accent writers 
L 
ook no further for the best food in 
South Bend. 
Dinner at the 
Carriage House is 
more than a meal. It's an investment. And a worthy one. 
Located in a remote corner of South Bend, the Carriage House makes its home in a converted Brethren church built in 1851. Despite the age of the building, the interior has been completely renovated. The main dining room boasts high, beamed ceilings, tapestries, exposed brick and approximately 25 tables. Two smaller rooms, one with eight tables and the other with three tables and a fireplace, provide a more intimate dining atmosphere. 
The atmosphere is formal; a sweater is also suitable attire. The owner, Evelyn George, greets guests with a smile, adding a personal touch as she leads them to their tables. 
The menu mixes French and 
-
-

OH, DooM AND 6JLOOM TU£ TIME 15 H£R£ FOR H£JlRT-SHflP£D CAN~ AND BoN£ ~ NUMSINU! FfAR 
'WILL S#E ASSENT WH£N I ASK H£R -ro Pi MIN£? OR WILL Slf£ LAUqH AND DAtJC(ON MY CARDBoARD VALENTINE. 
l(

I SeNT A Doze.N PANSI£5 ANO HAlF A fASE oF ee£R. SVR£LY SH£ '(}AN'T I?£F(}S£A VJIL€NT!N£ so SINCERE 
AND IF Slf£ !JOe5 DECL-INE, /F 51/£ T()SS£5 11£ ON HY CAN, W'ELL, J.'V£ 8£~N TH£R£ BEFORE, fiND I'LL FJ/C£ rr Ll/([ A MAN. 
BUT I ,qsk WilY? WI-/'(? WJ.I(? t1UST r L-ltN6JUI.Sil IN .stNG!ULARITY WHILE MORONS) Cf?£E.P5 AND lXJR~os Gto OUT WITH REGr ULARITY? 
TS IT A -:fiN X o~ MAYBE A SPELL? \\ \ 
AM I VN/JGR AN £V/L H£X? ~ 
WOULD 50MEON£ TaL MG VJHAT '(A <flo7TA DO TO Cn£1 .JUST A LLTTLE..... vh ... CilooD L.oNV€rst1/d.f7 ., 


French cuiszne offered to co 


contimmtal cuisine and features a number of tempting appetiz­ers. A special of the day, crab strudel topped with caviar in a cream-based sauce ($6.50), is highly recommended. The French Brie ($5), wrapped in puffed pastry with a pear sauce, was exquisite. The deli­cate pastry and perfectly baked Brie, with an added tart flavor from the pear sauce, provided a taste sensation. 
Patrons can choose from a variety of entrees, from duck to venison to quail to seafood, in addition to more traditional fare. All entrees include the soup of the day and a house salad. The soup, in this case cream of spinach, was excel­lent: smooth and rich with just the right amount of spinach. The house salad was unexcep­tional, but the Caesar's salad, on the a Ia carte menu, was noteworthy. 
The duck ($16) with cranber­ries is highly recommended. The tender slices of duck, com­plemented perfectly by the whole-berry cranberry sauce, were tremendous. 
The perfectly cooked sword­fish ($18), a daily special, was 
superbly flavomd with shallot 
butter. In the tradition of nou­
velle cuisine, the swordfish was 
accompanied by a sparsn por­
tion of steamed green beans, 
cauliflower and carrots attrac­
tively arranged on the plate. 
Diners with simpler tastes 
will enjoy the Filet ($1 6), a ten­
der, flavorful filet mignon 
cooked to customers' specifica­
tions and served with roasted 
potatoes and grilled onions. 
Choosing a bottle of wine 
from the Carriage llousn's wine 
list was an arduous task. The 
Carriage llouse has won sev­
eral awards for the selections 
on its wine list, which are un­
deniably good, but quality does 
not come cheaply. Students will 
probably use three criteria: Dry, 
white and under $40. These 
concerns narrow the field 
considerably, but students can 
'settle' for a French wine from 
the Bordeaux region which 
costs $16. 
A word to the wise: would-be 
wine connoisseurs should brush 
up on their French in order to 
avoid ordering the $160 -Bordeaux instead of the $16 variety. Desserts ($3.50 each) are se­


---~----~-~---..........--..--.---......~-~-------~---~~-----------.-------­
page 11 




Samples of South Bend's stupendous 

. 


spots for serzous sweethearts 

a!en tine's Michigan and Wayne. phone: are recommended. Location: Day is 233-1000 100 N. Center Mishawaka. coming phone: 259-9925. 
soon. If Hacienda: For some good you're margaritas, salsa, and wet Malabar: Float away to the looking for burritos try Hacienda at one of land of the Lotus eaters in this 
somwhere their several locations. For the small Indian restaurant located 

Market offers brownies,
cia! to take that someone best atmosphere, try the one across from the Linebacker. :ial. try some of these near Century f=enter. It's in a Enjoy some wine, papadams, aurants listed below. huge old house and you'll feel and the beef curry dish for 

boxes, and breakfasts 
like your walking up stairs into reasonable prices in an texpensive: the attic of the haunted intimate setting. Reservations mansion as the friendly staff are recommended. Location: runo's: For some of the best send you up to your table. 1709 S. Bend Av.• phone: 2 71­
DEBBIE CHARLESWORTH 
You can lighten things up for 
accent writer

, crust pizza in town and a Hacienda does not accept 0115 your Valentine during these ~Amore, try Bruno's on reservations so get there early dreary days by sending a spe­y St. near campus or on or expect a wait. Location:5880 Parisi's: Parisi's menu varies 
I 
f you want to give cia! Valentine box overflowing ;ie Ave. just south of down­Grape Rd .. phone: 277-1318 .• from typical Italian restuarant your sweetheart with sugar cookies and tied up rt. The thin crust pizza is 1224 Scotsdale Mall, phone: fare. The Arancini, gnocchi, something special, with lots of ribbon. Also in­'llent. The Prarie address. 2912566. and lasagna are great. All din­think about Marigold eluded is a single rose and a 1 its cavernous interior and ners include salad and bread. 
Market. For heart-shaped balloon. Orders pusly faux Italian Moderate Reservations recommended. 
Valentine's Day they for this treat must be in by 11aissance paintings, Location: 1412 S. Bend Av .• 
have prepared delicious treats Friday, February 9, to ensure mitely has the more East Bank Emporium: The phone 232-4244. 
to make your Valentine's heart delivery. The boxes cost $12 for ~ntic decor. Call ahead to Emporuim features great steaks patter. The magnitude of your a half of a dozen or $15 for a tr your pizza. Bruno's only and seafood. The homemade Expensive love may help you decide with dozen, delivery not included. 
s reservations for large salad dressings and toppings Carriage House: The best which treat to delight him or If your sweetheart really is a tps. Location: 2610 Prarie are outstanding. Don't miss the (and probably most expensive) her. sweetie, you might want to try . phone: 288-3320. 429 W. baked potatoes either. dining in South Bend. See Mint brownies, covered with one of the many Valentine ere­fish . . phone 258-4119. Reservations are recom­today's review. 
pink frosting and topped with a ations that Marigold Market wardo's: South Bend just mended. Location: 121 S. Niles. Tippecanoe: Tippecanoe's chocolate heart, are just some offers. Without breaking pari­ntly acquired some of phone:234-9000. atmosphere is unsurpassed. 
of the desserts specially pre-etals or violating the spirit of du ago's finest stuffed pizza. Dine in the splendor of the old pared for Valentine's Day. If you Lac, you can give a significant t to the stuffed pizzas over Ice !louse: Try the potato Studebaker mansion on prefer something more than a other a special Valentine hin crust pizzas or pasta skins or the shrimp de Jounge gourmet food. The desserts are brownie, perhaps you will be breakfast in bed. This includes es. For best results call for an appetizer. The Ice House fantastic. Location: 620 W. 
tempted by a heart-shaped a cheery basket filled with id and place your order. has great steaks as well as Washington Av .. phone: 234­raspberry chocolate torte French Roast coffee or Susan's ardo's does not take some good poultry dishes such 9077. 
topped with white chocolate Strawberry Tea. brioche and rvations. so get there early as Teriyaki chicken. Wines are This list was compiled by hearts. A heart-shaped apple croissants, as well as American xpect a wait. Location: S. $1 0-15 a bottle. Reservations John Blasi. 
cake with caramel sauce and spoon strawberry jam, assorted topped with almonds is also muffins, a pretty bunch of offered. flowers, champagne and 
For something completely strawberries. different, I suggest one of Mrs. Prindable's Apples. These are apples of enormous propor­For that extra special person, tions. a little bigger than a a basket called 'The softball, covered in chocolate. Discriminating Valentine" may toffee, or chocolate and white be just the thing. Nestled in a chocolate. These delectables basket wrapped in cellophane sell for around $12. but are you will find a box of Joseph 
....

well worth the investment. Schmidt chocolate truffles, bit­
Marigold Market will also tersweets. hard raspberry can­create a Valentine package for dies and a bottle of Veuve you. They can fill a heart-deco­Clicquot champagne. This treat rated mug or bag with any of will surely seal your old love or their specialty foods, such as create a new one. And if there Swiss chocolate. heart-shaped is no "special someone" to send truffles or heart-shaped marzi-you these delectables, there are pan. always "special parents." 
tples willing to spend some money 
.. 

ge House restaurant. located on Adams Road in South Bend, is a welcome change of pace for that Ientine dinner. The building used to be church, built in 1851, and the decor has been preserved to 
le pioneer atmosphere.  
tm a trolley, and the man chocolate cake  The Carriage House's food is unparalleled anywhere in South  perfect atmosphere for a tete­a-tete.  
the perfect finishing !l fine dinner. Also commended is the puff led with chocolate  Bend, but the budget conscious should beware, as dinner for two with wine is pricey.  Authors' note: The Carriage House is currently updating its menu. All prices are approxi­ 
md French cream.  Nonetheless, it provides the  mate.  

page 12 The Observer Friday, February 9, 1990 



Reserved Judgement: a Matter of Hope? 
the Navy temporarily owned. The busybodies kept a head­count of the brides who couldn't wear white at their weddings (so the busybodies said), and their sisters who left town in a hurry, wearing wed­ding rings bought at Woolworth's, before their em­barrassing condition became the talk of the neighborhood. 
From the horror stories that the girls brought back, "tough love" was the order of the day in the homes they were brought to, to have their babies, which they left behind them, to be adopted as orphans. "Tough love" must have been consid­ered an appropriate way of dis­couraging recidivism. Yet, "tough love," which smacked more of justice that is did of mercy, left young women whom I went to high school with feel­ing as though they were being punished like Hester Prynne. 
Speaking of punishment, you probably know that Father Bruce Ritter is in trouble, charged with sexual miscon­duct. Twenty years ago, Bruce opened Covenant House as a hospice for runaways in the Times Square area. His work has always been controversial: the neighborhood around CH has often accused him of run­ning a den of thieves; but for the street kids in trouble, he ran the only game in town. You can write him off, if you like, as an empire-builder like the tele­vangelists who were on an ego trip; but please remember that Covenant house has been Noah's ark to 10,000 orphans of the storm, so it is not ex­pendable, like a biblical Disneyland. 
If Ritter has made mistakes, nothing I could write here would save him from his mis­takes. He's sick already with cancer; he doesn't need a bro­ken heart to shorten his life. He's been struggling with the darkness for years and years, and unless you've lived in Hell's Kitchen, you have no idea how mindless and suffocating the devil's darkness is. 
Bruce's enemies say that the guy has chinks in his armor. Maybe those chinks are the places where the light comes in or the love goes out of him. The chinks could be the means of grace he uses in his discern­ment of evil. Maybe if he didn't have the chinks, he wouldn't be like the one-eyed man who be­comes top dog in the kingdom of the blind. 
Among the priests of my gen­eration, Ritter has stood out like a giant because of the in­tensity with which he cares about kids. He now has an army of workers all over the country who go out to the bad neighborhoods, lifting the cov­ers off garbage cans, looking for castaways with death in their faces; the life has gone out of their eyes, and their souls are dying. 
I've heard New York priests say that they've bought kids bus tickets and sent them home, just to save them from Covenant House. I've heard Ritter's kids accused of all kinds of mischief. Yet I spent many summers working in Manhattan's inner-city parishes. On days when I didn't have two subway tokens to rub 
together, I used to inquire of 
the pros: "How can I keep 
these fifteen year olds away 
from the street creeps who 
have been victimizing them?" 
The answer always came back, "Send them to Ritter's place. They're better off there than they would be at the 'Y' even if you could afford to pick up the tab for them at the 'Y'." All over Manhattan, the word was out: "Bruce Ritter is committed to the welfare and salvation of children." 
Yet this priest has enemies who would love to see him bite the dust. Why? Because they imagine that his humiliation would bfl another nail in the coffin of the Church's male chauvinism and priestly celibacy,.and an argument in favor of the ordination of women. But what would ordi­nation be worth as a status symbol, if every priest in sight turned out to be a hypocrite, a liar, and a sneak? Ordination in a Church that's as wishy-washy as a paper tiger would be like getting tenured on a faculty of dunces, or being made the gen­eral over an army of cowards. 
The willingness to make com­mitments. and the strength of character to keep the commit­ments you've madP-that's the name of the game when you're a priest, or anyone else who is worth his salt. Bruce Hitter has worn himself out doing a thou­sand times more good than all the rnst of us who will never get in trouble. Our prayers should follow him as he goes, tnm­porarily, I hope, into exile for his H&H. 

The Great Gatsby begins: "In my younger and more vulnera­ble years, my father gave me some advice that I've been turning over in my mind ever since. 'Whenever you feel like 

'he told me, 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
'just remember that all the people in the world haven't had the advantages that you've had.' ... Reserving judgment is a matter of infinite hope. I am still afraid of missing some­thing if I forget that. .. a sense of the fundamental decencies is parcelled out unequally at birth." 
I'm not even remotely ac­quainted with Mr. Greg Jeffrey, identified on the Observer's "Viewpoint" page for 1/29/90 as a first year graduate student in Business Administration. Self-described as a young American male with a viewpoint to share in the abortion dia­logue, Greg deserves a hearing, I think. That's because I admire the "fundamental decency" of the person who gives us an in­sight which cuts through so much of the preaching we hear: "I reflect on the circumstance that have led... women to opt for abortion. In hearing their stories, the emotion common to all was fear: fear of parents, fear of their boyfriends, fear of inability to support a child, fear of giving up future careers, fear of giving up their child. I recall the story of one woman 
in particular. It was a story I have heard many times since, and it ended quietly with ' but as you can see, I had no choice.' I glanced up at the lapel pin she wore; it read simply, 'Choice'. I looked 

seemed unbearable. 
Somewhere in Ireland, if he's still alive, I have a cousin whom I've never met. His mother was my mother's sister; and his fa­ther was a British soldier. All I know about this star-crossed couple is that they were never married. My aunt, finding her­self alone and pregnant in Catholic Galway, tried to take her own life. She only succeeded in burning her stomach out with the poison she used. 
As a child, I was aware of the letters she sent my mother, asking for money for the sup­port of her child, and of my mother's sending her money behind my father's back. Neither my father, nor my mother's mother, wanted to hear about this foolish virgin who had "ruined" herself early. 
Don't you imagine that God must look down on all the churches with mixed emotions of anger and pity? The churches have such a miserable track record for caring for the expectant unmarried mothers. As a teenager growing up, I witnessed first hand the heartaches brought on by wartime in a coastal town that 


_F_ri~da~y~·-F~e~b~ru~a~~~9~·~1~9~9~0--------------------------------~T~he~O~b~s~eN~e~r--------------------------------------------~page13 
SPORTS BRIEFS  
Advanced Conditioning Class will start Feb. 12 from 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. The class will be held Mon­day, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday until March 3. Call 239-7890 to register before 5 p.m. Feb. 9.  The AFROTC Flying Irish basketball tournament will run Saturday and Sunday iri the north dome of the Joyce ACC. The tourney is an ali-day event that includes 16 te,ams from five states.  Any women interested in Bengal Mission Bouts promotion please come to the Boxing Room in the Joyce ACC at 1 p.m. Saturday. Any questions should be directed to Walter at 233-7193.  
Students interested in playing off-campus lacrosse should call Mike at 287-3087 or John at 271-8309.  WVFI-640 AM will air the Notre Dame-Lake For­est hockey game live tonight at 7:30. Jamey Rappis and Will Clark will call the action from the Joyce ACC.  Freshmen interested in being a student manager should attend a meeting at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the ACC football auditorium. Call 239-6482 for more information.  

The Observer accepts classifieds evory business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the. 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
NOTICES Word Processing Can return on disk Pick up and delivery 271-9114 TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277-5134 Cathy. SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING IS MOVING, AND AS OF 219/90 WILL BE LOCATED 808 EAST JEFFERSON BLVD. SOUTH BEND, IN 46617 237-1949 USED TEXTBOOKS AT A DISCOUNT! Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of N.D. ave. and Howard  OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. DESPERATELY SEEKING A PIANO IN GOOD CONDITION. DO YOU HAVE ONE YOU'D LIKE TO SELL TO ME? CALL SHIRLEY@ 239­5303 BETWEEN 8:30AM & 3:30PM. ]GUITARIST: Seeking established band or SERIOUS musicians to play almost any1hing from Pink Floyd to 10,000 Maniacs. Pro. equipment and good attitude a must. Call Ken X 3303 Summer job interviews -Average earnings $3,400. University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories. hires over 200 college students for their summer sales program. Top earnings $5,000­$8,000. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and public  TICKETS NEED 3 TICKETS FOR NO VS GEORGIA TECH. JOHN X3853 I Need 4 GEORGIA TECH Tickets For FAMILY!$$$ Tom x3259 HELP! NEED 4 GEORGIA TECH TICKETS. CALL JOANIE x3851 Really need two Missouri Tickets. $$$Call Pete #2043. Leave message. $NEED GA's for Georgia Tech$ call Jim x1646 NEED 3 GEORGIA TECH TICKETS. CALL KEN x4074. I NEED 1 GEORGIA TECH TICKET. MIKE X3501 Need one ticket for Missouri  Matchmaker, Matchmaker, make me a match, find me a find, catch me a catch. February 13 THE VALENTINE AUCTION Buy a date with your favorite campus celebrity: •Fr. 'Monk' Malloy •Chris 'Zorro' Zorich •Chuck 'WNDU' Freeby •The Rocket •The Irish Guard •The Leprechaun •The Cheerleaders·& many more! The Valentine Auction is Tuesday, Feb. 13, 9p.m.-1 a.m. at Theodore's. There will be door prizes. THE RAFFLE Buy a chance at the over $1700 in prizes to be won at the Valentine Auction on Tuesday, February 13 at Theodore's. It's only a buck and is available at the dining halls at NO and Haggar Hall (downstairs) at SMC.  SUMMER JOSS OUNSELORS -Boys Camp, W. Mass I Girls Camp, Maine Top Salary, RmiBd/Laundry, Travel Allowance. Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activitiE-s: Archery, Arts & Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling. Chet:rleading, Dance. Drama. Drums. Fen.:;ing, Golf, uitar. Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback. Karate, Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Scub')_. Soccer. Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: Camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5983. Women call or write: Camp Vega, P.O. Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. HELLO SUNSHINE, MARY AND, Of­COURSE, VINNIE!!!!!!!! UUH-HIYA & GOOD-BYA FROM YOUR PAL MOLLY  
MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Copies, Cards. Laser Quality For Papers, Reports, Resumes, Etc. 277-MAIL  relations selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory. Positions also available in other university markets. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for  Call Matt x1213 For Sale: Plane Ticket for Spring Break to Wash. Nat'/, VA. Call Christine @ 284-4345.  THE FLOWER DELIVERY Give that 'special someone' a surprise flower for Valentine's Day. It's just a buck and we deliver on Feb. 14!  KC, YENTIL AND RJ--UUHH/YA FROM YOUR INVISIBLE PAL MOLLY! STILL NEED MICRO-ECON BOOK BY BROWNING. CALL AMY  
YOU WANT A GREAT JOB ... Alumni Senior Club applications for bartenders and managers now available in Student Activities Office.  enthusiastic, goal-oriented students for challenging, well-paying summer job. Internships may be available. Interviews on campus Tues., Feb. 20. Sign up at the Career &  PERSONALS Looking for a fraternity, sorority of  OH...MY... GOD! Listen to this! It's Nicci Guacamole's b-day today! Happy 20 Nic-may you "SCORE" in honor of this day.  AT3874 S&N. Like this.  
WORD PROCESSING & TYPING. REASONABLE PRICES. 289-1743. LOST/FOUND II  Placement Services. Wanted: A ride to Purdue or Rensselaer THIS WEEKEND (2-9), or any other. Call Jennie X2194.  student organization that would like to make $500-$1 000 for a one week on-campus marketing project. Must be organized and hardworking. Call Joe or Myra at (800) 592-2121. ADOPTION  (Check now) H.O.!!-With love from your favorite AF Wanna-be Hey Little Napolean, London misses you, especially me. Happy V-Day Shepherd. Love Mimi  PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES PRE-SWEAT JTCHIES at CLUB23 Saturday February 10  
LOST Pair of red wire-rimmed glasses Mon. in Huddle. If found please call X2963.  FOR RENT AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR -LARGE 4 BDRM. HOME.  Doctor & artist, happily married. warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal, confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864-5512  hiag  CLUB 23  Colleen Ryan, We're all looking forward to seeing you at the party in Dillon this Friday.  
$$$REWARD$$$REWARD$$$ Lost pair of black lined leather gloves. If found please call Claudine x4045. IF YOU FOUND/TOOK A BLUE JANSPORT BOOK BAG FROM THE LAFORTUNE CENTER ARCADE ON TUESDAY, FEB.7, I WILL GIVE YOU A $40 REWARD FOR THE PROMPT RETURN OF ALL OF MY NOTES. YOU CAN KEEP MY BOOKS, AND THERE WILL BE NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALL SHAALU AT 272­3174  COMPLETELY FURNISHED. CLOSE TO SCHOOL. CALL 234­9364. House for 1990-91 school year Furnished, secure home. 5 bedrooms, WID Close to NO Competitive rent 264-601 0 ROOMMATE NEEDED. Own room in house near campus. Quiet, comfortable. Furnished or un­furnished. Considerate, non­smoker a must. $225/mo. Call 232 ° 9952.  Parrot Heads Forever !!! The Copy Shop is open late and on weekends. Lower Level LaFortune AVOID THE RUSH! AVOID THE WAIT IN LINE! COME IN TO THE OBSERVER SOON TO ENTER YOUR VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. LOVE SONGS & ROSES The Classiest Valentine on Campus coming Feb. 10 from the Notre  Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE Open for dinner 5 -11 pm Monday to Saturday THE CLUB 23 Featuring up & coming bands. Don't miss our evening specials. 234-3541 'MO' BEST SPRING BREAK TRIPS! Bahamas cruise + 6 days $279, includes meals, parties,  NEED 2 STUD TIX FOR THE MARQUETTE GAME CALL AMY #2654 Pink Bear, I love you, miss you, and can't wait to see you. Brown Bear MORRISSEY MANOR FILM FESTIVAL HALL REP. INFO MEETING Sunday, Feb. 1 Montgomery Theater Lafortune Center  
HELP ... IIost a sapphire/diamond ring! High Sentimental value'''reward Call Debbie 2935  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT  Dame Glee Club. PHYSICIAN AND WIFE CAN PROVIDE SECURE, STABLE, LOVING HOME FOR YOUR BABY.  accomodations, some rooms have kitchens, leaves from Ft. Lauderdale. Cancun 8 days $399, 6 days Jamaica $369. Spring Break Travel 1-800-638-6786.  3:00p.m. '"MANDATORY MEETING'.. HIP HIP HOORAY!  
LOST: If you have a navy &tan Liz Claiborne leather shoulder bag that doesn't belong to you, PLEASE return it! Contains many valuble items, including Sharp Graphic calculator, checkbook. etc! REWARD· no questions asked! PLEASE call 283-4354 any1ime!  SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 3 BDRM. HOUSE. 2 BLKS. FROM CAMPUS. 234-1714. FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM APTS. AVALIABLE  EXPERIENCED PARENTS OF ADOPTED 2 YEAR OLD. LEGAL, PRIVATE ADOPTION. CALL COLLECT 513-891-1583. Hey roomies!!Buttheads I'm talking to you!! Have a great weekend, wherever you are!! e.G.  Guys! Think you're the only gay on campus? You're not alone! I am not a club or organization. I'm just one nice guy interested in meeting for friendship. Dis-cretion assured. (it's impor-tant to me too. It wasn't easy for me to place this ad, but hopefully you'll respond. MARK, P.O.BOX 974, ND46556.  today is MIKE MURPHY'S birthday!! Make sure that when you see him you give a big kiss!! Hope you have a great one Mike, and we hope you remember it! We'll see you tonite at Late Night Olympics! Love,  
LOST Brown Leather Jacket taken from party at 304 Campus View. I really like it so please return it...or else I'll call crime stoppers. No questions asked #1804 (Brian)  LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems, basements, rear yards,  Mike X, How's your dad? Don't worry you'll have a great time on Friday. Yeah right! Rico ------------------------------------­ February is Windy City Month! Buy a ticket to Chicago and get a shopping bag filled with neat slut!! Only at the Info Desk in LaFortune  Colleen, Wendy, Melissa (you knew all along who was doing this, didn't you?!) ANNE E. KENNEY: BUST A MOVE!!!I!!!!!/1!111!!!!!1!1  
LOST: eye glasses in Washington  What do the Irish Guard wear  THE BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND  
Hall at Sunday's Gospel Choir concert(2-4-90). PLEASE call x4907  under their kilts? Buy one and find out February 13  NO-Missouri basketball  NO's most politically correct band -­TONIGHT at CLUB 23  
if you found them. My academic career depends on you!!  Selling People .... Is it fair?  Coming soon to an arena near you  *******....** * •••*••*••**.  
THE BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND  
FOUND: RING IN 116 O'SHAG CALL X 4852 -JEANMARIE  All this Iovin' has made us hungry-­ Seniors...............................................  Delicious, nutritious. TONIGHT at CLUB 23  
meet Harry and Sally at the old  Feb. 13th at Alum.Sr. Club  
LOST A GREY GLASS CASE WITH A PAIR OF GLASSES (GOLDEN COLOR). IF YOU FIND IT PLEASE CALL MENG 239-5791. THANK YOU VERY MUCH.  **SOPHOMORES** Sign ups for JPW EscapeIn Clllcago start Mon., Feb. I lal floor  Bruno's: 6:30--?? Then-­Saturday: Who doesn't like wedding receptions? It's the infamous Wedding/ass Reception at Senor  from 1Opm -2am Got a Date/ Need a Date Senior Formal Spring Raffle Win Tuxedoes, Bids, etc ..  THE BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND  Tonight at Club 23  
FOUND: CROSS PEN IN ROOM 123 OF NIEUWLAND. CALL X4098 TO CLAIM. WANTED  LaFortune -nut to tbe lnfomatlon dnk (tiO). NEC 54" projection TV PERFECT FOR DORMS Call NO Dept. of Comm. &Theatre 239-7054  Kelly's--begins at 8:00pm. WANT AN SYR DATE? If you received an SYR survey this week, fill it out and return it to your hall president by Sunday, Feb. 11.  Skinny, Why don't you get some bed slippers. And please clean up after yourseH next time! Sign me Slirnfast  CHRIS BONE is 20 tomorrow -I hope you have the greatest birthday ever!!! Love, Beth ART AND STEVE, Get plenty of rest and get  
Ride needed to COLUMBUS, OH Friday 2116. CaiiJackie x4114 COUNSELORS, summer camp for MR, June 10-August 18, Orlando, FL (407) 889-8088.  JUDOGI for sale size3 call Laura x3887 1981 FORD GRANADA, 84,000 MI. $400. 255-3230.  This is your chance to save SYRs or end them. Get the survey to your hall president today. Looking for Love in all the wrong places? Try something new --February 13  LOVE SONGS & ROSES The Classiest Valentine on Campus Coming Feb. 1 0 from the Notre Dame Glee Club. MISFITS IN DISGUISE....... Alumni Sr. Club Feb 10 10pcn-11pm........  psyched for Saturday night. Can't wait to see you both it's been a LONG week. Love, Katie and Michelle St. Jude, please hear my prayer.  


----~~ ---­
...------~~~~--~--~~=-··----~-------11!"""~-1:11!11!!11'1"-"" 
Friday, February 9, 1990

page 14 The Observer 
Late Night Olympics to help St. Joe's Special Olympics 
~lo~~~~it~URZ 

Have your Friday nights been a little dull lately? Do you need some high excitement sports action to release your frustra­tion after a tough week of classes? Then look no further. 
NVA has just the thing to cure your woes. Tonight, in the JACC, NVA presents its fourth annual Late Night Olympics to benefit St. Joseph's County Spe­cial Olympics. 
Over 1200 people are ex­pected to take part in the "late night sports extravaganza," said Sally Derengoski, the as­sistant director of NVA who is in charge of the event. 
Such diverse sports as vol­leyball, water lacrosse, whiffle ball and, of course, the obstaele course will be staged, with the 
first events kicking off at 8:00 
p.m. 
A Celebrity Dunk Tank will operate from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., featuring Chris Zorich, Troy Ridgley, Joe Cassidy and other campus celebrities. 
According to Derengoski, the purpose of the event is two­fold. "First, we wanted to ere-ate a unique activity for the students," she said. "Second, we wanted to raise money for the St. Joseph's County Special Olympics." 
All of the proceeds go to ben­efit the St. Joseph's County Special Olympics. In the past three years over $5000 has been raised, and the goal for this year is $2500. A fee was charged to enter teams in the events, and a one dollar charge is required to enter the JACC , which has been dubbed "The 


Absolute Deadline for filing all St. Michael's Laundry fire claims is Friday. Feb. 16. 1990 
Claims should be filed in 1 08 Lafortune or call 239-7802 for information 
:E)~~@IYJr~lfll 

1GrlliOtmc?Jlril turns 2.1 today! 
~­
Would you serve this man a drink??? 
Happy Birthday!! Love, Christina 

CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME! 
Come to the cheerleading informational meeting 
FEBRUARY 21st 
7:00pm in the Auditorium next to the Football office in the JACC. 
Olympic Village" for the night. 
Each of the dorms at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have been grouped into TEAMS (NVA has chosen to capitalize this term to avoid confusion with the teams entered in the events by the larger TEAMS). Most of the TEAMS include three halls, although some two-hall teams exist among the larger dorms. 
These TEAMS will compete for the Late Night Champi­onship-the benefits of which include an all-expense paid pizza party from NVA. Scoring is based not only on games won, but also on particif!ation. Several TEAMS have already acquired bonus points for en­tering teams in every event, and all teams will acquire points for showing up to play.A unique feature of the LNO is the Grand Prize, which differs from the overall championship. Each of the TEAMS may choose to enter $100 into a pot, 80% of which is given to the highest finishing team who enters the Grand Prize, while the other 20% is given to the Special Olympics. 
"The sports were chosen to make use of all our facilities," Derengoski said, and a look at the schedule supports her statement. Broomball and skating will take advantage of the ice rink, while Rolf's Aquatic Center will host inner-tube water polo and water lacrosse. 
Other facilities to be used in­clude the racquetball courts, the arena, and the fieldhouse, which will be the site of the ob­staele course. New tricks will be part of the course, as will the infamous tricycle. 
A load of sports fun and ex­citement will be there for the taking, as well as the chance to contribute to an excellent cause. So lace up your sneakers and prepare to compete in the fourth annual Late Night Olympics tonight at the JACC. 

• y M' . F. L h •
• ouI re 1ss1ng n -unc . . • 
• Friday St. Paul and the Martyrs • : Wanna Neck!!! : 
: Saturday Misfits in Disguise : 
• (10-11) • 
• NextWeek • • Tues. -Get a Date/Need a Date 111 ALUMNI •. : Thurs. ::J:CsENIOR L •. 
e & Fri. -Cliff Erickson 1-• 


'································· 


HOG BOWL I. 
"This time it's for the Homeless" 
*A campus section football tournament benefitting homeless children in South Bend, to be held this weekend at Holy Cross Hall Field with the finals at 4:30 Sunday. Many Celebrities and members of the national media are expected to be on hand. 

Friday (Bound 1) 5:00p.m. Grace 2 vs. Holy Cross 2 Saturday (Bound 1) 
11 :00 a.m.  Flanner vs. Morrissey  
Noon  Sarin vs. Cavanaugh  
1:00 p.m.  St. Ed.'s vs. Pangborn  
2:00p.m.  Dillon vs. Zahm  
3:00 p.m.  Fisher vs. Holy Cross I.  
4:00p.m.  Grace I. vs. Keenan  
5:00 p.m.  Stanford vs. Alumni  

Sunday (Round 2) 
10:00 a.m. Grace 1 I Keenan vs. Stanford 1Alumni 
11 :00 a.m. Dillon I Zahm vs. Fisher 1Holy Cross 1 Noon Sarin I Cav. vs. St. Ed.'s I Pangborn 
1:00 p.m. ,Grace 2 I HC 2 vs. Flanner I Morrissey 
(Semi-Finals) 
2:00 p.m. 
3:00 p.m. (Finals) 4:30p.m. 
Winner Game 1 vs. Winner Game 2 Winner Game 3 vs. Winner Game 4 
For all the Pigskin Pride!!! 




r---­
Friday. February 9, 1990 The Observer page 15 
ND track meets best in Midwest 

By DAVE DIETEMAN and several independents, Rogan and Glenn Watson, as Sports Writer including Notre Dame's tra­well as juniors John Cole, ditional Midwestern Jeff Smith, Ryan Cahill and 
The Notre Dame men's in­Collegiate Conference rivals, sophomore Shawn door track and field team Loyola and Marquette. Schneider. All turned in travels to the University of "Illinois is phenomenal, spirited performances last Wisconsin at Madison this Purdue is outstanding, week at the Meyoweekend to take part in the Wisconsin is very good, and Invitational. 1990 Central Collegiate Eastern Michigan is very, But however insurmount­Conference meet. very good," remarked Irish able the odds may seem, the 
After a convincing perfor­head coach Joe Piane. "This Irish remain optimistic. mance at the Third Annual is going to be a highly com­Meyo Invitational at the petitive meet." "We've been running
Meyo Track last weekend, pretty well this season, and 
the Irish are looking to con­Other teams of which the our training has been payingtinue improving against top­Irish must be wary are off," stated senior sprintingnotch competition. The Illinois State, Bradley, sensation Yan Searcy. "This 
Central Collegiate Conference Michigan, Western Michigan meet should feature more in­is made up of 25 schools and Michigan State. tense competition than the from the Mid-America Notre Dame's hopes are Meyo Invitational, but I don't 
Conference, the Big Ten, the riding on seniors Mike want to make predictions. I Missouri Valley Conference O'Connor, Yan Searcy, Mike just want to go out and run." 
STOREWIDE CD SALE 
Over 20,000 compact discs are on sale. Save 2.3, or 4 dollars on every compact disc, now through Sunday at TRACKS. 
GUARANTEED LOWEST CD &TAPE PRICES 
pipes for the Irish all year. 
Steve Collins will probably start
Hockey 
' ~ 1!1 

TOWNHOUSES 
For Rent 
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 

232-8256 
E

~~ m Jil.
-
-



Friday, February 9, 1990The Observer 

Irish, Cougars eye NCAA tourney 
M;n's tennis to 

By GREG GUFFEY  Notre Dame leads the series  "We're playing about as well  
Assistant Sports Editor  against Houston 4-3. Joe  as we've playP-d all year," Fos­ 
Fredrick scored 25 points and  ter said. "They (Notre Dame)  
DALLAS -Two teams bat- LaPhonso Ellis added 21 in last  have a quality player at every  
tling for an NCAA Tournament  year's game, memorable be- position. They've got a ballclub  
berth will meet Saturday when  cause the Cougars wore Notre  that could run off seven or  
Notre Dame travels to Hous­ Dame's gold uniforms for the  eight wins in a row."  
ton.  first half until theirs arrived.  
This will be a key game for  Both teams have experienced  Phelps spent most of the  
both teams. The Cougars are  trouble on the road this season.  post-game press conference  
16-6 overall and 7-3 in the  The Irish are perfect at horne,  Thursday talking about his  
Southwestern Conference, while  but just 4-7 on the road. The  special relationship with SMU  
the Irish are 12-7 following  Cougars have lost just once in  coach John Shumate.  
Thursday's 63-49 victory over  Hofheinz Pavilion -82-78 to  Shumate played for Phelps at  
Southern Methodist.  Arkansas -but have struggled  Notre Dame in the early 1970s,  
"They're very similar teams  to 6-5 on the road.  but missed his sophomore sea- 
in very similar situations,"  "There are few teams that  son due to a blood clot in his  
Houston coach Pat Foster said.  can win on the road in college  lung. lie was a first-team All­ 
"It should be a good match up."  basketball," Foster said.  American in his senior season.  
Since Arkansas appears on  This will mark the third time  After a seven-year NBA ca- 
track for the conference's au­ that the teams have played in  reer, Shumate returned as a  
tomatic berth, Houston will  Houston with the series tied at  volunteer assistant to Phelps in  
need to beat some name teams  1-1. They have met three times  1981-82. lie took over as head  
to get an at-large invitation or  in NCAA Tournament play.  coach at Grand Canyon College  
hope to upset the Razorbacks  All five Houston starters av- in 1983 and compiled a 58-33  
in the SWC Tournament. A win  erage eight or more points,  in thn~e seasons that included  
over Notre Dame would greatly  with guard Byron Smith leading  nine tournament victories.  
enhance their appeal to the se­ the team at 16.2 points per  At Grand Canyon College, an  
lection committee.  game. Center Carl Herrara  NAJA school. Shumate turned  
"I'm sure they'll remember  scores 15.2 ppg with 8.5 re- out two All-Americans and one  
last year up hero," Notre Dame  bounds followed by forward  academic All-American.  
coach Digger Phelps said, re- Craig Upchurch at 12.5 ppg  lie then returned to Notre  
ferring to the 89-80 Irish vic­ and 7.5 rpg.  Dame for two seasons before  
Univefsityo!HoustonSportslnfonnation  tory. "But we can't be worried  The Cougars have won four  taking the top job with the  
Sophomore guard Derrick Daniels and the Houston Cougars host Notre  with what they want to do. We  consecutive ~ames, includi~g  Mustangs. lie is in his second  
Dame Saturday in a game with NCAA tournament ramifications for both  just have to worry about our- Wednesday mght's contest w1th  year with a 20-29 ledger.  

1 

111111111111111111111111111111111111UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIini1HHIIii'nmllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllluniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMIII 
host Notre Dame 
M\ 


\1ll., 
Special to The Observer 




'Jl.,

The Irish men's tennis team will play host to the Notre Dame Quadrangle on Saturday, ~-, with play beginning at 9 a.m. at the Eck Pavilion and running into the evening. 
NotrP Dame (3-1) plays its first match of the day at 9 a.m., facing off with Western Michi­gan. The Irish also play South­ern Illinois at 3 p.m. and Bowl­ing Green at 7 p.m. 
The Irish are coming off a pair of victories last weekend, including one triumph over a nationally-ranked team. Notre Dame defeated Illinois 6-3 Sat­urday at Champaign, then stopped 25th-ranked West Vir­ginia 5-4 the following day at the Eck Pavilion. 
Irish winners in the Illinois match included David DiLucia, Chuck Coleman Mark Schmidt and Ron Hosas at singles, and the doubles pairs of DiLucia with Mike Wallace and Coleman with Schmidt. 
Against West Virginia, DiLu­cia won in straight sets over the Mountaineers' Jobey Foley, who came into the match ranked 12th in the nation. DiLucia beat the University of Georgia's AI Parker, then the nation's top-ranked player, earlier in the season. 
Other Notre Dame winners against West Virginia included Coleman and Andy Zurcher at singles and the doubles pairs of Coleman with Schmidt and Zurcher with Ryan Wenger. 

Hoops 
continued from page 20 

the second half and 51 percent. 
(21-of-41) for the game. 

NOTES -Kevin Ellery did not play in Thursday's game be­
.. 
cause of the need to rest a bad back...The Mustangs were 0­of-11 in three-point field goals . . .The Mustangs outrebounded the Irish 33-32...Moody Coli­seum was not even at half ca­pacity with 4,225 fans...Notre Dame hit 18-of-26 free throws. . .Saturday's game will be tele­vised nationally by NBC. ..The Cougars are 6-2 in televised games. 
-~---~ -~----~----~---­
Friday, February 9, 1990 The Observer page 17 

Call 283-BLUE 
2 5 8 3 
Student Escort Service Anywhere on Campus 
~ 




7 Nights a Week 
T 

Sunday -Thursday 7:00pm-I :OOam Friday and Saturday 7:00pm-2:00am 
-. 
... 
-~~--­
Friday, February 9, 1990
The Observer 

.. 
The ClJsefver f Matt Mittino 

The Irish wrestlers attempt to come up with yet another strong elton against stiff competition Saturday when they host Purdue. Notre Dame, who upset 1Oth-ranked Ohio State on Feb. 2, battle the Boilermakers for the coveted Shillelagh Trophy. 

100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday bnmch 
219-259-9925 


c:D Mrru ~ ©[f® pick up your JPW registration packets Monday Feb.12 & Tuesday Feb.13 2-10 p.m. in the Dooley Room 
located on the 1st floor of LaFortune 
this packet includes your tickets and a calendar of events for the weekend 
Questions? call 239-6028 Mon-Thurs 7-9p.m. or Steve x3131 

By STEVE MEGARGEE  Notre Dame will need plenty  a wrestling match between the  
Associate Sports Editor  of confidence against Purdue,  two schools.  
which traditionally has given  Senior 142-pounder Pat Boyd  
the Irish all kinds of problems.  leads Notre Dame with a 23-3­ 
Having proved last weekend  Notre Dame defeated the  1 record, and junior 158­ 
that it could compete with the  Boilers 23-15 last year, the  pounder Mark Gerardi has  
best teams in the country, the  first Irish victory over Purdue  posted a 28-4 mark.  
Notre Dame wrestling team  since the 1967-68 season.  Despite missing much of the  
now is out to maintain that  Purdue leads the all-time series  winter holiday matches because  
level of confidence and perfor­ 16-2.  of difficulties in making weight,  
mance the rest of the season.  "It's going to be a tight  118-pound senior Andy  
The Irish (6-7) host Purdue  match," said McCann. "It could  Hadenbaugh has a 16-2-1  
7:30 p.m. Saturday at the Joyce  go either way. The way the  record. Sophomore 126­ 
ACC. The Boilermakers have  matchups are, it could come  pounder Marcus Gowens, who  
wrestled well this year, but arc  down to the team that gets the  got a pin against Indiana last  
not in the class of Big Ten  most bonus points winning the  weekend, is 18-7-1 on the sea- 
counterparts Ohio State and  match."  son.  
Indiana. Notre Dame defeated  Purdue (5-3-2) is looking for  IRISH ITEMS: Hadenbaugh is  
Ohio State and fell to Indiana  177-pound Mike McHenry to  four wins away from becoming  
last weekend in a pair of  produce some bonus points  Notre Dame's eighth wrestler  
matchups with Top 10 oppo- Saturday. McHenry is ranked  to garner 100 career wins. The  
nents. ·  third nationally in his weight  senior from St. Joseph, Mich.,  
"We wrestled well, but I still  class.  currently holds a 96-27-3  
don't think we're wrestling up  "He has all the ability to win  record at Notre Dame ... Boyd is  
to our abilities yet," said Irish  the NCAA title," said McCann.  the third-ranked 142-pounder  
coaeh Fran McCann.  "Their upper weights are their  in the nation according to the  
That weekend split has given  strongest. We'll have to build  latest Amateur Wrestling News  
the Irish an added dose of con­ up a big lead early."  poll. The same listing has  
fidence this week, according to  The winner of Saturday's  Gerardi ranked 12th among  
McCann.  match will be awarded the  167-pounders... Five Irish foes  
"Our practices have been go­ Shillelagh Trophy. The  are in the Amateur Wrestling  
ing great, and they really feel  Shillelagh has gone to the win- News top 10. Iowa is third,  
good about themselves," he  ncr of the annual Notre Dame- Nebraska fourth, Indiana fifth,  
said. "They're upbeat, and you  Purdue football game since  Oklahoma seventh and Ohio  
like to see those things at this  1957, but this is the first sea- State 1Oth ... Hadenbaugh has a  
point in the season."  son it has been at stake during  5-0-1 record since returning to  
the Irish lineup.  


ND wrestlers battle for Shillelagh 
Who is in the 

D 
Late Night Olympics Dunk Tank? 
Have you ever had a unpleasant run-in with Student Activities? 
u 
..dunk Student Activities Director Joe Cassidy at 10 p.m. 
Have you ever wanted to pick a fight with some who can be~~ch press 450? 
..dunk Chris Zorich at 10:30. 
Have you ever wanted to say 'in your face' to a big man on campus? 
...dunk Troy Ridgley at 11. 
N 
Has The Observer ever forgotten to cover your big event? 
...dunk Editor Chris Donnelly and Sports Editor Theresa Kelly at 11:30. 
Have you ever had an NVA ref blow a call? 
...dunk Tom Rask at midnight. 
K 
Have you ever wondered what SMC student government does? 
...find out and dunk V.P. for Student affairs Mary Beth Blajda at 12:30. 
Did you see one to many posters in the john this morning? 
...dunk SBP candidates Rob Pasin and Vinny Sanchez at 1 and 1:30. 



70 ways to say "Be my Valentine." 


• Frt-nch Vanilla • Call:> Au L1it • Amaretto Cheesecake • Almond Amarettu • Apple Nut • Banana Nut • Apple Pie Cheesecake • Banana berry • Apple Pie a Ia Mode • Banana:-> N' Cream • Berries N' Cream • Berryberry • Blueberry • Blueberry Ch..,St.>cake • Cafe Amaretto • Cafe Vienna • Cheesecake • Chocolate • Chocolate Candy Cane • Chocolate Covered Cherry • Chocolate Covered Cherry Cheesecake • Chocolate Covered Strawberry • Chocolate Mint • Classic White Chocolate • Eggnog • German Chocolate Cake a Ia Mode • German Chuculah.> Cheesecake • Lemon Custard • Lemonberry • Lemon Cheesecake • Limeberry • Lime Cooler • Mocha • Mocha Mint • Neapolitan • New Orleans Chocolate • Peach • Peachberry • Peach Cheesecake • Peaches N' Cream • Peanut Butter • Peanut Butter Fudgt> • Peppermint • Peanut Butter N' Jelly • Pralines N' Cream • Pumpkin Pie • Pumpkin Pie a Ia Mode • Raspberry Cheesecake • Raspberry Fudge • Raspberry Truffle • Strawberries N' Cream • Strawberry Cheesecake • Strawberry Truffle • Tropical Twist • SUGAR FREE NONFAT • Chocolate • Vanilla • Swirl • NONFAT • Banana • Bananaberry • Banana Colada • Bananas N' Cream • Banana Nut • Berries N' Cream • Berryberry • Chocolate • Chocolate Covered Strawberry • Coffee • German Chocolate Cake • Raspberry Fudg£ • Strawberry • Strawberry Colada • Tropical Twist • German Chocolate Cake a Ia Mode • Key Lime • Limeberry • Lime Cooler • Neapolitan • New Orleans Chocolate • Pecan 
r-------------Praline • Pina Colada . -------------­
Pralines N' Cream • 
Raspberry •

Buy One for And get 
your Valentine. · yours FREE! 
Bring your Valentine in for a treat and get the same size treat for yourself FREE! 
Offer excludes pints, quarts, and pies. 
Limit one per customer. 

Tax and Topping Not Included. 1635 Edison
.Offer GilOd Slinday, February 11th Only 
South Bend. Indiana 4h637 171-9540 Walking di~tan.;e from Noire Darnr 
Remember to Take Your Valentine a Pie! 
L------------------------------------­
©1990, I Can1 Believe it's Yogun. Ltd. 
---------------------------~-----------------·--, 
Friday, February 9, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Friday, Feb. 9 ACROSS 23 Fountain 43 Supply fresh 4 p.m.-Lecture, "Chemical Behavior of Radionuclides specialties personnel
1 Ruby spinel 

During the Chernobyl Accident", by Prof. I.L. Kho­24 U.S. Quaker 44 Cinnabar and 
6 Injure 

dakovsky of the Vernadsky Institute for Geochemistry and leader tinstone 
12 Disentangled

Analytical Chemistry, Moscow, USSR. 356 Fitzpatrick 25 Vikings 45"Mein-" 
Hall. Sponsored by the Center Sensor Materials. 14 Nigerian 27 Half a score 47 Infection seaport, river or 
suppressants
28 En-(fencingSaturday, Feb. 10 bean phrase) 48 Snooze 15 Beards of grain
2 p.m.-Recital, Arden Trio (Piano, Violin, and Cello). 29 Disney 49 Painting 
Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by NO Department of 16 Kind of pitch or cartoonist, e.g. technique swimming
Music. 31 Anderson's 51 Ukr. is one
stroke "High-" 52 Ear shell 17 Actress Farrow 

Sunday, Feb. 11 32 Mass departure 54 Inheritor 2 p.m.-Mass Sponsored by Emmaus: A Community 18 Element forming 
33 A small finch 56 Amusespoisonous

with the Mentally Handicapped, Moreau Seminary Chapel. 
36 Devil's delight 57 Salarycompounds

A social hour follows. 
37 Simon products 58 Mielziner creations 20 A Southeast 
Asian 39 Berlin tune: 1928

2 p.m.-Film, "The Shaggy Dog." Annenberg Audito­
59 Bergen puppet21 A Holy Roman 42 School of 
rium. Sponsored by Educational Media. 
emperor whales 

DOWN 
1 Sherrill Milnes, 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

e.g. 2 Mrs. Lindbergh was one 3 Bandleader MENUS 
Baxter 
13 Hudson 30 Large wine cask 40ASemitic 4 Utah ski resort contemporaries 
language31-Scottish5 Scorches 14 Sir Arthur-headwear 41 Mend a highway

Baked Cod Sesame 

6 Cup for a Doyle 42 Simone Signore! 
33 Forces 
Beef Pot Pie netman 
film: 196719 West German 

Cheese Stuffed Pepper 7 Fish sauce 34 Inferior poet
river 45 British ducal
Tangy Grilled Chicken Sandwich aSpoil 35 December 31 family22 Process of 
9 Moderator 37 Something to 46 Chafes
absorption break

10 U.S. Army rifle 49 Ripped
24 Flaunts 

11 Prized weasel 38 Used a springe 50 Not fer 26 She was a lady
12 Spanish girl of 39 Single-celled 53 Actor Cariou songdom 28 Dead duck organisms 55 Mimic 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

-
l N~EUED t>. C.\.\lE 

M~ll t.. I>?.!!IlK. ON~ ~ T'H~M 1 ~'C.v-.1 ~\\ER£. 1':> FIKO. 


~~~s Ot..~£ W~KT Tt>.L~I~Er. 9:li.EO!Iit: \-\AD Q)ntN 10 "ER. Hi!ST MID S\1\J\ \U. UP ~0. l ~NC'« SJS\EI t..~ CL<JS\1'\G 1\tR \N:)l,)'l\1 ~QlJ\..1)'-IE 
Ttl¥.~~ ~t. w~~ . 

:·················································t· 
~ Friday Night Movie cushing Auditorium ~ iC 8:00 and 10:15 ~l:nt~Jut iCt [F)[ID[f@[JI)ij~@@@l $2.00 ".} ~ t 
ie Woods ie 
iC iC 
~ Saturday Night:A/1 Night Winter Movies Friday, Feb. 9th ~ 
~ ,..,.q'""' Al ~, rk-Rn (0)o t'Q't'Q' 7•l0 pm ~ 
00
0

~ ~lliiD.rn@~l) ~~~ ®ffi® tfu.'Olllt@)]]].@LQ;JJ. @~ (g) WJWJ ~ 
iC ~M1IP> ~fu®lt ll@~ ll@ ~ $2 for Tubing iC ~ Iill®lt ill'XID[211 'ill:ID® Eir®~® ll~~~@ ~ $1 for Bus Transportation ~ iC Il»®®.@l ®if ~lt@rf' ~~~@ 
sTUDENT UNION BOARD • 



Sports 
Friday, February 9, 1990 

Irish top SMU in low-scoring affair 
By GREG GUFFEY 1 on the current trip which Sweet and Bennett then went on Assistant Sports Editor in Saturday tear, combining nine
ends Houston a for afternoon. straight points to boost the ad­
DALLAS -This was a game "We did what we had to do -vantage to 19-6. That lead Notre Dame basketball coach get the win and get out," Phelps eVfmtually grew to 25-6 with Digger Phelps thought no one said. 4:11 left in the half. should lose. LaPhonso Ellis paced the "The defensive intensity was 
But it was also one that the winners with 16 points and 10 very good and the offensive in­Irish needed to win. rebounds, while Keith Hobinson tensity was very good," Pht~lps 
Notre Dame bolted out of the chipped in 11 points. said. starting gate and then held off The homecoming was also a Said Ellis, "Wn'rn going to pesky Southern Methodist 63-success for the Texas Express have to do those things against 49 Thursday night at Moody of Elmer Bennett and Daimon tht~ big teams." Coliseum before 4,225 fans. Sweet. Bennett, a former Notre Damn built the lead to The game pitted Phelps against standout at Beaumont lligh :B-17 on a jumper from Ellis his former player and assistant School,scored 10 points and early in the second stanza. The coach in John Shumate. That dished out three assists, and Mustangs cut the lead to nine made it a tough night for Sweet. who played high school at 38-27 with 14:48 n~maining,
.. Phelps. ball in llouston, tossed in six but that was as dose as they 
"You hate to go out there no points and two boards. could get. matter who wins or loses," John Colborne and Hod But then tho Irish rekindled Phelps said. "There's a lot in­Hampton led the Mustangs (7-monwnts of road games earliPr side this game that's not your 13) with I1 points each. in the season. Trailing 25-6, normal college basketball "Notre Dame is very tal­SMU scon~d 9 of tlw last II game. John Shumate is very ented." Shumate said. "They're points to rut the margin to 27­special to me, and I just want big, strong and very athletic. I5 at tho half.Tiw Irish shot 55 him to be successful." That's when~ we want to be in pnrennt 111-of-20) in the first 
With or without Shumate on the future." half. whil1~ the Mustangs eon­the opposing bench, it was a The Irish finally got otT to a nPcted on just 28 pPrePnt (7-of­must-win game on the road for good start away from !lw Joyce 25) of their shots. Notre Dame. The Irish, losers ACC. They jumped alwad 7-0 ThP Irish shot 48 percent in of three of their last four road and thtm 10-2 with Fredrick's games, improved to 12-7 and 1-five points keying the run. see HOOPS/ page 16 
which brought their record to
By KEN TVSIAC 
15-11. Notre Dame lost 6-3 to
Sports Writer 
the Falcons in the first game of the series before gaining

The Notre Dame hockey team re­
venge in a 3-2 victory this pastmust find a way to motivate it­Saturday night. Schafer hopesself this weekend in facing a to build on that victory thisLake Forest team which has weekend against an opponentlost to the Irish twice already that could surprise the Irish.

this season. 
"We have a good rivalry with

Notre Dame defeated the 
Lake Forest. They are a goodForesters 6-3 at home and 5-3 Division III hockey team. Areat Lake Forest on November 24 they as powerful as Wisconsinand 25, respectively. The two or Air Force? No. Are they ca­teams will face off once again pable of beating us? Yes," cau­Friday night at 7:30 at the tions Schafer.

Joyce ACC and Saturday night Notre Dame will be withoutat 8:30 EST time at Lake the services of standout seniorForest. 
defenseman Kevin Markovitz (2Despite this previous success G. 14 A), who will sit out the

against the Foresters, Irish 
series with a thigh contusion.

eoach Hie Schafer does not Freshman Darren D'Amato,think his team will have any who saw his first action lasttrouble getting fired up for this weekend against Air Force, will weekend's series. 
replace Markovitz in the lineup. 

"We've been humbled a few times this season, says Senior winger Bruce Guay will Sehafer. "We haven't been return from a shoulder injury 
overwhelmed like last year, but which forced him to miss sev­we've been humbled enough eral games over the past that we won't take anybody month. lie should add some of­
The Observer I Scott McCann lightly... fensive spark to a team which 
The Irish are coming off last has averaged less than three 
The Notre Dame hockey team (14-8) challenges The Irish face the Forresters both Friday and
weekend's split with Air Foree 
see HOCKEY I page 15 Lake Forest in a pair of home games this weekend. Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. in the JACC Fieldhouse . 
• Irish fencers put unbeaten records on line in Cleveland 
Cleveland State will boast a
loss coming to Ohio State last 
Senior Anne Barreda may be
By CHRIS ALLIO 

fencer or two who could just do
season. feneing this weekend with a lit­
Sports Writer 

enough damage to the Irish to
"Ohio State has probably the tle added vim and vigor, per­
come away with one in the 'w'
best overall. balanced team," haps out of discontent over a 
column.

The Notre Dame fencing said DeCicco. "And their setback whieh she suffered sev­teams will take their show on women's team will give us quite However. the Irish should roll eral years back. 
into the city that made !larry
the road this weekend as they a challenge. Hopefully our men 
Pepper famous, a.k.a.
travel to Cleveland, Ohio, to can put it all together this "In her freshman year, Anne face Northwestern, Cleveland weekend, that they know not to Cleveland, with a solid squad, selected not to go to the Staw. Case Western Reserve, take theses teams too lightly." save for the services of three­NCAA's, even though she had Oberlin and Ohio State. Ohio State in particular has time monogram winner Dan an excellent reeord," said 
'Swordfaee' Yu. The New York DeCicco.
"All tnose schools have at already proven its merit this an Joel Clark native suffered an ankle injuryleast one or two very good indi­year..With undefeated in this week's practice sessions In I987, Barreda had a 37-8viduals," stated Head Coach record in the Midwest, the to do a number on them like 
Mike DeCicco. "I know better Buckeyes soundly downed the they did, well that certainly which could keep him out of ac­mark but was denied an invita­than to underestimate the pos­men's team of Wayne State, 23-doesn't bode well for the Irish. tion this weekend. tion, with an Ohio State mem­sible strength of these schools." 4, earlier this year. In addition, There's definitely a storm on "Danny will probably not be ber attending instead. The head the women of Ohio State were the horizon, and its name is able to fence this weekend," fencing coach of the Buckeyes 
The ObvserverI Steve Moskop 

Digger Phelps' Fighting Irish defeated SMU 63-49 Thursday night in Dallas. Notre Dame travels to Houston Saturday to take on the Cougars. 
Foresters next for ND 
Hockey team welcomes Lake Forest 

A special concern of narrowly edged by the Tartars Ohio State." said DeCicco. "I'd rather give was part of that year's selec­DeCicco's, as well as the rest of by a 9-7 margin. him time to recover than to tion committee. 
the squad will be the Buckeyes "It goes without saying that In addition, the remammg possibly further aggravate the of Ohio State. The men's team Wayne State is a perennial upcoming competition cannot situation. We'll need a healthy The Irish have only two regu­is currently holding a 35-meet powerhouse in the Midwestern be overlooked by any means. squad when the Great Lakes lar season engagements this 
win streak, while the women's ranks," said foil captain Joel Championships come around in month before the Great Lakes
Past experience has shown that streak is at 15, with their las\ Clark, " And for the Buckeyes team-s like Oberlin and March." Championships on March 3. 




