
TUESDAY , DECEMBER 11, 1990 VOL. XXIII NO. 68 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
152 hostages freed 
ANDHEWS AIH FOHCE BASE, Md. (API-Mon~ than 150 Anwril'ans who had been trappt>d in Iraq and Kuwait ar­riVPd in the UuitPd States Mon­day for a holiday homecoming artl'r four harrowing months spPnt as hostages or in hiding. 
Tlw 152 AmPrican and four Canadians Wl'fl~ grneted by a small hut rluwring crowd as 
• More on Gulf I page 4 
they strnamed off a rharu~r flight at AndrPws Air Force Bast~ outsidt~ Washington. 
They appeared tired but most smiled as they left the plann, waving to thn greeting party. Helativns in thn crowd held up signs, including tfnl' that said, "Daddy, Daddy, I Nm~d You." 
Most of the group carrind luggagt>; many wore casual l'lothes and were ill-prepared for tlw chilly evening weather. 
Onn woma·n was in a whnnlchair. The group declined to speak 
with reporters at Andrews, but sorne individuals spoke freely at a hotnl later. 
"I was damned mad about the wholfl thing," said Jack Rinehart, 37, of Stover, Mo., an electrical engineer. 
Hinehart, a designer of air­eonditioner motors, spent al­most the entirn time in the U.S. Embassy at Kuwait City where he said he was "eamp plumber" and lost 25 pounds on a diet of tuna and riee. 
Dwight Durmon of Fayet­teville, Tenn., said he was not mistreated in Iraq. But "people are seared in Iraq," he said, dutching the hand of his wife, Kathy. 
"Everybody has mental stress coming out of there," said Durmon. who declined to say what he did in Iraq. 
Both Durmon and Rinehart said President Bush was doing well in the crisis, Rinehart ob­serving, "I think George Bush and the administration have handled this beautifully." 

The Observer I Elisa Klosterman

Holiday festivities 

In honor of the holidays, members of Shenanigans, singing and dancing group, enterrained audiences last night in their annual Christmas concert in Washington Hall. · 
CLC votes to change du Lac concerning sexual assault 
By SIOBHAN MCCARTHY transportation to St. Joseph rate into du Lac a clear'defini­sault through University Health easier-to-read brochures, News Writer Medical Center to determine tion of sexual assault and a Services to aid in the which must be mailed upon re­the presence of physical general policy towards victims psychological healing of the quest to student applicants and 
The Campus Life Council trauma, disease or pregnancy, and perpetrators. Such action victims and encourage others distributed yearly on campus," voted unanimously Monday in according to a recent Student is necessary to correct the cur­to feel comfortable about according to the Chicago Tri­favor of a resolution written Government Report on rent lack of a specific and reporting such occurrences. bune article. and presented by Lisa Bost­sexuality to the Board of defining policy. "Rape is the most frequently wiek, district II senator, which Trustees. •That the University widely occurring campus c'ime, "I think it's a good idea be­outlined four specific changes The report states that 21 of publicize ifs counseling although the vast majonty go cause people need to be aware to ht~ made to du Lac in order 705 respondents were raped. services for victims of sexual unreported," according to a re­that it happens here on cam­to bettnr aid the victims of sex­Out of these 21. only 5 .victims assault and that immediate cent Chicago Tribune article pus. It's not a distant prob­ual assault, and more specifi­reported the incident. Seventy counseling be offered to victims which was discussed at the CLC lem," said Bill Allen. district I cally, of date rapn. percent of those who reported of sexual assault. meeting. It went on to say that senator. However, ninety-one 
"Insensitive, cold and dehu­an incident did not feel ade­•That awareness of and edu­federal authorities have re­percent of those surveyed were manizing," are the words quate assistance was given. cation about sexual assault and cently begun to crack down on not aware of Notre Dame's Bostwick used to describe the Ninety percent did not report rape be fostered through semi­the issue of campus crime, and policy toward date rape, ac­curn~nt provisions madn for because of fear of the Univer­nars or forums to educate all colleges and universities will be cording to the report. acquaintance rape and sexual sity's response or lack of confi­students about healthy rela­forced to respond by keeping assault victims in du Lac. · dentiality. tionships, specifically during more accurate crime statistics Phone numbers pf support 
Basically, the current du Lac Bostwick argued that the ex­Freshman Orientation. Addi­after Sept. 1, 1991, when a services for rape and assault poliry states that thn victim isting du Lac policy was "very tionally, the University should new law requiring colleges to victims are listed in du Lac. must voluntarily rnport the discretionary" and lacked a publish accur'ate statistics of publish accurate campus crime Victims may call the Office of rapt~ or sexual assault to Notre definite, outlined procedure. sexual assault, including ac­statistics goes into effect. Residence of Residence Life I>ame security. If thn victim is She then presented a quaintanc.e rape, on the Notre (239-5550), the University willing to take this first step, resolution with the following Dame campus. "Colleges are expected to rn­Counseling Center (239-7336) which is not true in most cases, suggested recommendati9ns: •That support groups be of­spond to the new law by and Sex Offense Services in st~r.urity would then provide •That the University incorpo-fered to victims of sexual as-repackaging the information in South Bend(289-Help) for help. 

Security to offer storage 
'Media source protection' in court 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The people convicted of trafficking Whitney, the Independent-He­
for students over break 
Supreme Court sa,id Monday it in the hallucinogenic drug LSD. publican candidate for gover­will decide whether news orga­•Refused to postpone a Jan. tlor, provided the information
By MEGAN JUNIUS during regular business 
nizations enjoy some constitu­22 election under a redistrict­on the condition he not be 
News Writer hours. 

tional protection against being ing plan designed to help elect identified as the source.
There is no charge for the sued for breaking promises to the first Hispanic in 115 years Heporters for the two papersNotre Dame Security will of­service; however, Security will keep a source's identity a se­to the Los Angeles County gave that assurance, but theirftlr propPrty storage to off­not be responsible for damage cret. Board of Supervisors. editors ordered that Cohen's• campus students over Winter or theft. 
The court voted to consider •Asked the Bush administra­name be published.
Break, acenrding to Sergeant As in the past, Security will reinstating a $200,000 award tion, in a case from Missouri, The same day he was namedlrv Sikorski, director of the offer winter bike storage to all against Minnesota's two largest for its views on tl\,e scope of a as the source in the newspaperwintPr bike and property stor­Notre Dame students for the 
newspapers. It was won, and key civil rights law forbidding storin111 about Johnson, Cohen 
age program. entire winter season, Sikorski then lost, by a news source racially discriminatory firings. was fired from his advertisingStudents are f'ncouraged to said. Bikes rnay be brought to whose identity was not kept In the dispute over confiden­agency job. 
bring their televisions. the Campus Security Building confidential. tial sources, public relations stert!os, VCHs and computers on Dec. 13 from 3-6 p.m. and The award had been thrown man Dan Cl'lhen initially won a In voting 4-2 to throw out to thH Campus Seeurity again on Dec. 14 from 12-4 out by the Minnesota Supreme $700,000 award against the Cohen's ensuing lawsuitBuilding for storage, Sikorski p.m. Students should bring Court. Star Tribune of Minneapolis-St. against the newspapers, thesaid. These Items should be the bikes to the north side of Before beginning a four-week Paul and the St. Paul Pioneer state Supreme Court rejectedpackaged to insure their the Campus Seeurity Building holiday recess, the court also: Press Dispatch. A state appeals arguments that Cohen was
safoty al\d to facilitate by the garage doors. 
•Ruled unanimously in a court reduced the award to entitled to collect monetary
available storage space, he Although items left in the 
Michigan case that workers $200,000. damages for the broken
said. dorms over vacation should 
may sue their employers after During the 1982 Minnesota promise.
be safe from theft. Security 
losing union grievance com­political campaign, Cohen told Off-r:ampus students should. recommends wrapping plaints. The decision reversed reporters for the two papers "Enforcement of the promise eonw in by way of the D-6 computers. stereos and other a federal appeals court ruling that Marlene Johnson, a Demo­of confidentiality under (suchparkin~ lot and then enter the valuable items in plastic in that a labor strike is a union's cratic Farm Labor candidate a) theory would violate defen­SP1:urity Building with their order protect these items only recourse when its workers for lieutenant governor, once dants' First Amendment propnrty. The itoms should be from steam leaks or water lose grievances. had been arrested and charged rights," the state court said. 
brought Doc. 19 and 20 from dam.age that could erupt from •Agreed to judge in a Wis­with shoplifting. The Constitution's First 
:~-6 p.m. and picked up broken or frozen pipes, 
consin case the validity of fed­Cohen, who was associated Amendment guarantees free­between Jan. 14 and 18, 1991 Sikorski said. 
eral guidelines for sentencing with the campaign of Wheelock dom of the press. 
. ' 
Tuesday, December 11, 1990
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


It's time for this writer /to take a stand 

Last week my rae­tress (for some rea­son, I have a violent aversion to that word, but then, "the nun-lady in charge of my dorm" borders on 
disrespect) stoppe9 
me on my way to class. I figured she was going to inquire 
Paige Smoron Asst. Accent Editor 
after the status of my detex (its where­abouts are questionable, and I'd taken to waking up our security guard Jeanne at 3 
a.m. to let me in), but she asked, "Paige-you write for The Observer, don't 
you?" 
"Yes," I said, much relieved. 
"I was thinking that you have such a ... unique?...way of writing, maybe you could take on the Fight Song in one of your columns. I mean, we've been co-ed for 18 years, and we're still singing, 'while our loyal sons are marching...'" she began. 
Visions filled my head of abusive letters to the editor with headlines that shrieked, "Paige: Insecure Feminist or Communist Pig?" I fled. 
Later, at dinner, I was manned (womanned? personed?) with a thesaurus, frantically putting together my infamous SYR column (in which I condoned liberal use of peanut butter on hosiery). One of my dinner-mates had the audacity (and the bad-timing) to suggest tackling a topic more relevant to our human situation, like, say, 
" ... the meaning of life." 
"The meaning of life?" 
"The meaning of life." 
~This column is due in an hour, and you 
want me to write about the meaning of 
life?" 
"Well, maybe you could just try somef.hing 
a little more seri()us. How about the Gulf 
crisis? What do you feel strongly about?" 
"I feel strongly about fashion." 
"Write about how much you love Christ­
mas." piped in the girl across the table. 
"When you look at all the trees and the 
blinky lights, and you get all tingly ... " 
"Lights don't get me tingly." 
"I think she's just suggesting you try 
something a little less ... superficial.... 
"SUPERFICIAL?" 
The rest of the evening I devoted to 
brooding. Darkly. (Not unlike Heathcliff.) 
The next day looked like more of the same, 
until this boy who sits in front of me in my 
9:05 turned and said, "You write for The 
Observer, right?" 
Not again. "What about it?" 
"Geez. Nothing. I just like your sense of 
humor-it's twisted." 
"Really?" 
"Yeah. You make me laugh." 
Good enough for me ... 
Next week: Look for an attack on May­
belline for phasing out my fawrite nail pol­ish, "Lilac Lunacy." It's time to take a stand. 


WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, Dec. 11 
20 
20 
Yesterday's high: 50 Yesterday's low: 33 Nation's high: 82 
(Monrovia, Montebello, El Cajon, Calif.) Nation's low: -7 (Jackson, Wyo.) 
Forecast: 
Mostly sunny and very mild today with highs in the low to mid 50s. In­creasing cloudiness tonight with lows in the mid 30s. Partly cloudy tomorrow. Highs near 50. 

• •COLD  WARM  • •STATIONARY  ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc.  
Pressure  
®  ©  ~  ~  [!}]  0 ,.  EZ]  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  

OF INTEREST 
Year of the Woman and Feminist Forum will con­duct a discussion on the film, Pretty Woman. The ex­change will be led by Hilary Radner, assistant professor of communication and theatre, at 7 p.m. in "The Loft" of O'Shaugnessy Hall. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band Concert will be held tonight at 9 p.m. in the Koons Rehearsal Hall. 
An Advent penance service will be held tonight at 10 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
WORLD 
Lech Walesa was elected by a landslide in Poland's first popular presidential vote and got right to work today on his pledge to build this young democracy into an economically sound "pillar of peace." Walesa, who led the decade-long struggle that ended au­thoritarian Communist rule, acknowl­edged that "terribly difficult tasks" lie 

ahead as he attempts to complete the painful transition to a market-based economy. Prosecutors today ordered that the defeated Stanislaw Tyminski, emigre businessman, be barred from leaving Poland while an investigation contin­ues into allegations he slandered the government dt!ring his campaign, state television reported. 
There will be a Christmas dinner for previous resid~nts of Holy Cross Hall at 5 p.m. on Thursday. Coat and tie are required and residents are asked to meet on the hill. 
Bertha Beachy, who recently returned from a Peacemaking Delegation to Iraq, will answer questions concerning the present Gulf situation at 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday at the Center for Social Concerns. During her stay from Nov. 21 -Dec.1, Beachy met with Iraqi leaders and common citizens to promote negotiation efforts. 
Opposition leaders conceded defeat Monday in their bid to unseat Serbia's ruling Communists in an elec­tion that threatened to split Yugoslavia. They also ac­cused the Communists of widespread cheating. "On Sun­day, Serbia chose Bolshevism and darkness instead of democracy and light," said Vuk Draskovic, the main rival of hard-line Communist President Slobodan Milosevic and a dissident novelist and leader of the nationalist Serbian Renewal Movement. As official returns trickled in from Serbia's first free ballot since 1938, Milosevic and his re­named Socialists took a commanding lead over Draskovic's center-right movement. 
NATIONAL 
Two Navy aircraft practicing takeoffs from the car­rier USS Lexington collided Monday over the Gulf of Mex­ico. The fate of the two pilots was not immediately known, the Navy said. The two TA-4 Skyhawk aircraft apparently collided in the air at 4:10p.m. about 85 miles northwest of Key West, said Lt. Cmdr. Ray Kempisty, spokesman for Naval Educatiop and Training in Pen­sacola, where the carrier is based. More than an hour after the crash, no survivors had been found, said Coast Guard Petty Officer Thomas Peck in St. Petersburg. Each of the single-engine jets carried one occupant, the Navy 
Federal regulators on Monday lifted an evacuation order imposed on a flooded subdivision in Highland, Ind. after cancer-causing PCBs were discovered in the oily floodwater. The decision allowed residents forced from 120 homes near the Little Calumet River to return to assess flood damage and gather personal belongings. Six inches of rain late last month left the 420-home Wicker Park Manor subdivision under five feet of water. Poly­chlorinated biphenyls, once used as insulators in electrical transformers, were banned by the federal government in the 1970s. 
said. 
CAMPUS 

_ Elizabeth "Betty" O'Connor. the secretary t~ the director of Alcohol and Drug Education, d1ed Saturday, Dec. 8. The visitation hours will be held today from 2 4 p.m. and from 6-8 p.m. at the 
Hickey Fun~ral Home, 3516_E. Jefferson Blvd. A funeral mass will be held Wednesday at 10 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Memorial contributions may be made to Northern Indiana Spina Bifida Association. 
Phillip Gleason, professor of history, will lead a discussion entitled "The Prehistory of the Catholic Identity Crisis" tonight at 7:45 p.m. in the Jacques Moritain Center on the seventh floor of the Hesburgh Library. The discussion is spon­sored by the Graduate Student Union Intellectual Life Committee. 
MARKET UPDATE 


NYSE Index  
179.58  {t 0.51  
S&P Composite 328.89  1} 1.18  

Dow Jones Industrials 

2,596.78 1} 6.68 
Precious Metals Gold 1}$3.90 to $374.20/oz. Silver f-0.9¢ to $4.050/oz. 
ALMANAC 

On December 11 : e In 1816: Indiana became the 19th state of the union. e In 1872: America's first black governor took office as Pinckney 
Benton Stewart Pinchback became acting governor of Louisiana. e In 1941: Germarw and Italy de­
clared war on the United States. e In 1946: the United Nations In­ternational Children's Emergency Fund ("UNICEF") was established. 
e Ten years ago: President Carter signed into a law legislation cre­ating a $1.6 billion environmental SU­perfund to pay for cleaning up chemi­cal spills and toxic waste dumps. 
, 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-23~471 
Today's Staff: Production Belt. Peterson 
News Christine Anderson 
Joe Moody
Kevaleen Ryan ViewpointJay Colucci 
SportsKen Tysiac Systems
Dave McMahon Gil Gomez Randy Chizum 
Scoreboard 
Rene Ferran Circulation Kathleen O'Conner John O'Brian Alison Cocks 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mondaythrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 


~------------~·--~-----.------------------------------~---------------.--~----------~----------------------------~----~--~--------~ 
The Observer

Tuesday, December 11. 1990 page 3 

The Observer I Elisa Klosterman 
Deck the doors 

Even with unseasonably warm weather for December in South Bend, Pasquerilla West residents Letty Arambula (left), Liz Emery, Rachel Zutell and Rita Moya display the Christmas spirit through their door decorations. 
model that gives women in 
THURSDAY, DEC. 6 

8011IIT!r(,{L8t1cfttffcf 
will be in the Sarin Room of Lafortune 
TODAyI DECEMBER 11 
9-5 Desired, Fun, Unique Christmas Gifts for family and loved ones 

Clark discusses 'action research' in talk 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 

"When you see that there is starvation, you ship food, not wait around for five years to understand the culture," was an argument during a talk re­garding emergency relief versus development. 
According to Ann Clark, chairperson and associate pro­fessor of philosophy, "development" is a problematic word when it comes to women's studies. In fact, the notion of advancement is practically impossible for those in indigenous countries, Clark continued. 
In the third of the Womens' Studies Brown Bag Colloquium lecture series, titled "Gender and the Politics of Food," Clark presented her paper to an aca­demic crowd at Saint Mary's. Clark believes that womens' studies still have a lot to learn from developmental research. 
She spoke about paradigms of development and offered borrowed and original models to resolve this paradox. Of the four models, only one is work­able. 
The first was the equity 
12:25 p.m. A resident of Grace Hall reported that several compact disks were stolen from his room. 7 p.m. A resident of Alumni Hall reported that his brown leather coat was stolen from the eighth floor of the Hesburgh Library. 
10:04 p.m. A resident of the O'Hare Grace Townhouses reported that she was approached by a suspicious person on the west end of the complex. 
10:25 p.m. An off-campus resident reported that his money was stolen from his wallet while he was at the Rockne Memorial. 
third world countries the right to vote and a role in politics. However, the increase in single parent families has led to lower morality standards and ulti­mately "women's disempower­ment," Clark said. Further­more, equity contradicts the theme of increased productivity since some jobs are gender­specific. 
In the integration model, which was conceived in 1982, women and girls are viewed as key to societal development. Clark stated that with better education and health care, they can make an even greater con­tribution. "Integration means integration into mainstream economic activities" while re­taining the needs and choices of rural women. 
The United Nations declared the Decade of Women in 1985 and predicted advancement by the year 2000. There are "factors tied to national and in­ternational structures" such as gender discrimination and im­perialism that can deter wholistic development. The model was rejected by third world women who wrote a series of responses proving that it wouldn't work in their soci­eties, according to Clark. 

Student Senate schedules elections for class officers 
2/9/91 LSA T 
• Prep Classes Start 1/21/91 in South Bend. 
Sign up bdore the holidays! 

1717 E. South fknd Ave. South Bend, IN 466 37 PHONE 219/272-4135 


She stated that while these three models will not work; the communal self-determination model will. The "aim is the self­empowerment of women and redistribution of resources and the recognition and incorpora­tion of indigenous cultures." 
Clark stressed the necessity of "action research" by living in a community to see what people conceive their need to be. In order to be beneficial, she said that one must do an­thropological work to know the details, economy, religion and language. 
To make the process more complicated, someone pointed out the futility of trying to "cross cultures" or be of use by having pre-existing ideas when going other places. Even with a slew of models to follow, chances are that any one would not successfully apply to a group of cultures. 
Pat Washington, assistant professor of sociology, anthro­pology, and social work, be­lieves that the development policies would lead to a "reallocation of resources" and cause a revolution. 
SECURITY BEAT 

10:30 p.m. A female student reported that she was approached by a suspicious person while she was by the fencing gym of the Joyce ACC. . 
FRIDAY, DEC. 7 3:23a.m. An off-campus resident reported that her car had been damaged while it was parked in front of the Alumni-Senior club. 
12:05 p.m. A resident of Dillon Hall reported that his car was stolen from the C01 parking lot. 
8:29 p.m. An Austrian pine tree was reported stolen from outside the front door of Fisher Hall. 
SATURDAY, DEC. 8 

2:51 a.m. The hall monitor of lewis Hall reported that a suspect vandalized the front door of the building by breaking the glass. 
8 p.m. A Notre Dame faculty member reported that his wallet was stolen from an unlocked locker in the men's locker room 
of the Joyce ACC. 
SUNDAY, DEC. 9 
3:36 a.m. Four Notre Dame students reported that their jackets and various other articles were stolen from one of the victim's cars while It was parked in the Common's parking lot on Eddy Street. 

By PETER AMEND News Writer 
The Stuc;lent business income statements released at the Stu­dent Senate yesterday, indi­cated signs of promise for the Notre Dame Video Store. 
In the first three weeks since opening, NO Video made a $866 profit, which was due largely to the heavy influx of membership fees. Likewise, Adworks turned in a net profit of $1861 for the months of Oc­tober and November. 
Irish Gardens suffered a $335 net loss for the month of October due to the scarce number of SYH's during that time period and the rising cost of flowers, according to Mike Kolar, senate business manager. 
In other Senate business, the official election dates for next year are: 
•Student 
Body President and Student Body Vice President: Feb.4-13, 

•(:tass 
Officers: Feb. 20-27 and 

•Senators 
and Hall Presi­dents: March 20-27. 


American Heart &•a Association V 

Looking ForAn EasyWayTo Earn Some Casht 
If so, Observer Typesetting has the perfectjob for you. We are currently accepting applications for the position ofAccount Executive. As an Account Executive your only responsibility is to attract new client~. We'll take care of the rest while you sit back and collect your paychecks each time that client uses our services. 
Applicants should have some knowledge ofMacintosh computers. Desktop Publishing experience is preferred. 
If interested, please pick up an application at our office, 314 LaFortune Student Center. Applications must be returned by Thursday, December 13, 1990. 
1111111111 

oOserver typesetting 1111111111 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, December 11, 1990 


Baghdad claims it 'will not compron:--ise o~e io~a' 
· Both s1des cont1nue bu1ld-up 


Campus Ministry and You 
0MPUS 

MINISTRY 

AP Photo 

A U.S. marine clad in a gas mask dashes from an amtrack vehicle carrying a grenade launcher during offen­sive exercises in the Saudi Arabian desert Friday. At home, one Vietnam veteran from California protested the U.S. involvement in the Persian Gulf by committing suicide by setting himself on fire. 
(AP)-Though more than 150 freed American hostages headed home Monday, hopes of peace raised by their release were dimmed by tough statements from both sides in the Persian Gulf crisis. 
Despite its decision to free the thousands of foreign cap­tives, the Baghdad government made its toughest statement in weeks on Kuwait, saying it would "not compromise one iota" in its claim to the emirate it seized on Aug. 2. 
Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney, meanwhile, said Iraq's move to free the foreigners should not create unrealistic expectations about a resolution to the gulf crisis. He also said Iraqi President Saddam Hus­sein deserved no particular praise for deciding to end his "abhorrent" hostage holding. 
Even as the freed hostages were streaming out of Iraq, 
more and more military for.ces converged on the gulf region. 
France announced it would increase its troops by an un­specified number, and Cheney said Saddam had been sending in reinforcements in recent days. 
Despite the continued talk of war, there was little that could dampen the hostages' joy at coming home. A Pan American flight from Frankfurt, Germany was due in Washington Monday evening with 152 Americans and four Canadians. 
Those aboard the military­chartered flight had flown out of Baghdad the day before, the first Americans to go free un­der an Iraqi decree releasing all foreign hostages. Some in that group were taking later flights home. 

THE MESSAGE 
Hello, Mary. You don't know me. My name is Gabriel. Mary, I represent a very important personage, who has asked me to give you a message. 
First, let me tell you a bit about Who I represent. You know, Mary, that you didn't just arrive on the scene one day. You are the result of Great Love-the greatest love that has ever existed and could ever exist. No, I'm not talking · about your parents' love for each other, although that's certainly part of it. I'm talking about Love so great that nothing can exist without it, Love that goes beyond everything-including time and time's andlliaries-even death. I represent the Lover whose Love that is. 
My message is this: Love is within you. You are filled with Love, you are blessed with Love, and Love blesses you. The great Lover I represent is very pleased with you and how you have let Love live within you. You have nurtured and cared for it very well, and my boss is very pleased with you-there is no one-man or woman-with whom Love is more pleased. 
Now, Mary, the Person I represent-the Creator of Love-has been trying to convey to all of humanity the depth of care and intimacy the Creator wants with all of humanity, but it's been very difficult. People tend to only understand what is presented to them on their own terms. But various attempts at portraying this love on human terms have, frankly, been failures. 
So, we're going to try a different way. We're going to make Love human. It has no time dimension and comes from the very essence of the Creator,-in fact, Love and the Creator are the same-but Love is going to enter the world of time. And Love is going to do that through you. 
Now. Mary, here's the hard part. Love is going to enter the world through you as your baby-the same way any human enters the world of time through any other woman. But you are to be blessed above all women, since the Father of Love is already as intimate with you as it is possible for any being to be with any other being. So, while all the appearances will be the same, the reality of this birth will be quite different. Joseph will have a hard time understanding, but God knows you can handle it. 
Will you? Are you willing to become the mother of Love? 



Tuesday, December 11, 1990 The Observer 
page 5. 
• • ~ 4 




Consumer groups target ads 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Cereal that cures nab, cigarettes that knep you slim and an airline Onnt as new as its last overhaul arn among thn most deceptive advertising claims of the past year, consumer groups con­tended Monday. 
Gnnnral Motors' dnpiction of its1~lf as a safety pioneer and Philip Morris' new image as a champion of the Bill of Rights also won "Harlan Page Hubbard Lemon Awards" from assorted 
consumer.  health  and  
environmental groups.  
The  annual  awards  are  

named for "the first advertising executive to employ deceptive advertising techniques on a national seale," according to the Center for Science in the Public Interest. 
Hubbard is bnst known for his efforts on behalf of Lydia Pinkham's Vegetable Com­pound, a turn-of-the-century quack patent medicine touted as a cure for eomplaints rang­ing from fatigue to caneer. 
"The Hubbard spirit is alive and well in the advertising community," said Bruce Silver­glade, legal dirnetor of the een­tl~r. 
Silverglade and others called on Congress to strengthen the FIHleral Trade Commission's power to regulate advertising. 
Sen. .Joseph Lieberman, D­Conn., a consumer advocate wlwn he served as Connecticut's attorney gmwral, said consumer groups and slate attorneys 
111ake a
state111e.._t 
i¥hi •·····•·••··••··.·>arauJ!ii c e i n t h e rsian gulf t-shirts 
2-color design on a high-quality 
1 00% cotton t-shirt. 
sizes: medium, large, x-large 
send your name, quantity 
and size 
111~1lSilll~ 

plus your check or money order 
fitR..J4' 
for $12.95 per shirt to: 

dove promotions p.o. box 1904 south bend, in 46634 
•llow 2 to 4 weeks for delivery C 1990 dove productions 
FLYING HOME FOR 'I'HE HOLIDAYS? 
UNITED LIMO The Easy Way To Fly 

Convenient Hourly Service To and From Midway & O'Hare 

Departs from Notre Dame Bus Shelter Fares: $27.00-One Way $50.00-Round Trip FORSCHEDULEINFORMATION CALL 674-7000 
Reservations Accepted ...But Not Required 
general need FTC help in their 
efforts to get deceptive ads off 
the air. 
"As good as all those people 

are, they simply do not have 
the power to eleanse the 
marketplace of bad 
advertising," Lieberman said. 
The Hubbards have been awarded for the past six years to ad campaigns branded "the most misleading, unfair or ir­responsible" by groups familiar with their produets. 
The 1990 entry into the "Hubbard Hall of Shame" was a Volvo ad that showed a Volvo standing up to the crushing weight of a truck driven over its roof. The car had been spe­cially reinforced to survive the weight. 
Hobert Austin, a Volvo spokesman, said the company never intended to mislead the public and was not aware that the ear in the ad had been rein­foreed until after the ad aired. 
"A mistake was made during the produetion of the commer­cial which compromised its va­lidity," Austin said. "We went out and told the public that with our own corrective adver­tisement." 
Another "winner' was Burger King, which advertised a "Kid's Club" as "fun, non-stop" and flashed images of children hap­pily involved in what are pre­sumably club activities. 
The real club offers only a membership eard and some stickers, said Action for Chi!­
dren's Television. 
Burger King spokeswoman 

Cori Zywotow said the clubs 
have 2. 7 million members who 
receive a newsletter five times a 
year and special meals at the 
restaurant. 
Asked if that counts as "fun, non-stop," she replied: "We stand behind our kid's club program and our kid's club ad­vertising 100 percent. It's been wonderfully successful and lots of fun." 
Two major companies were eited twice by the watchdog groups. 
GM advertised its Cutlass Supreme model as "fuel effi­cient" even though it gets lower mileage than most of GM's other models, aeeording to the Safe Energy Communication Council. 
In addition, the Center for Auto Safety said the company misrepresented itself by claim­ing in another ad that it "pioneered the airbag." 
GM removed airbags from its cars after 1976 and fought government rules that would have required them. It now equips fewer models with airbags than Ford or Chrysler, the auto safety center said. 
Philip Morris, the cigarette maker, got a Hubbard for a Virginia Slims ad that, accord­ing to the National Women's Health Network, implies a brand called "Superslims" can help women stay thin. 
The company also was cited for its ads championing the Bill of Rights. The Coalition on Smoking Or Health dismissed the campaign as a PR effort to defeat government restrictions on tobaeco promotion. 
*••••¥••••t.,•,t••u•111-!••tt•••••••••••
: SPRINu tsRt:AI\. '91 : 



iACAPULCO ~ 
..
.. 

.. $4 5 9 0 0 .S.o,.~, .,."6 
:FROM • 1)9 e/' : MARCH 11-17, 1991 6 q.f-11
..

* Air & Hotel PLUS, PLUS...... : from CHICAGO on AMERICAN AIRLINES 
.. 
: FOB MORE INFORMATION CALL: 
.. 
:BOB AT 1-800-875-4525 
: LIMITED SPACE ... CALL TODAY!! 
............................ 
e~1S711t,4S 11"!'D&tJS 11t .L~'?tJI!nU?t& 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12 ·FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14 
(on big screen TV in Main Lounge) 
WEDNESDAY: ''IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE" "ERNEST SAVES CHRISTMAS" 
THURSDAY: "ERNEST SAVES CHRISTMAS" "A CHRISTMAS STORY" 
FRIDAY: "CHRISTMAS STORY" "IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE" 
~ 
Movies start at 7:00p.m. FREE HOT CHOCOLATE AND COOKIES! 
uuuuu 


AP Photo
Pressure for peace 
Demonstrators march through downtown Chicago at the conclu­sion of a rally called to protest the U.S. policy in t~e Persian Gulf. 

Fetal alcohol syndrome is often ignored, panel told 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Doc­tors and government agencies are looking the other way while alcoholic women, including a disproportionate number of In­dians, give birth to thousands of children with debilitating handicaps, a Senate committee was told Monday. 
Many doctors fail to confront women who drink during preg­nancy and aren't trained to di­agnose and treat children af­
..
.. 
..
: 
..: 
* 
: 
.. 
.. 
:
.. : : 
-
! 
• 
meted with the resulting birth defects, said parents and ex­perts in testimony to the Senate Finance subcommittee on So­cial Security and family policy. 
About 5,000 babies are born each year with fetal alcohol syndrome, a cause of mental retardation, and 35,000 more suffer from less severe effects 
· of a mother's drinking, accord­ing to the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Depen­dence. The problem is particularly acute on Indian reservations, where the rate of fetal alcohol syndrome is seven times the national average, said Sen. Tom Daschle, D-S.D. One of every four children on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota is born with the malady, Daschle said. Fetal aleohol syndrome could create "a continual underclass in our society who can't func­tion," said Michael Dorris, a Dartmouth University professor who adopted three children with alcohol-caused birth de­fects. "In this great land of plenty, many babies are born exposed to such high levels of alcohol and drugs before birth that 
h d. b . t .
t ey Ie or are orn 111 ox1 cated," said Jeaneen Grey Ea gle, director of a Pine Ridge treatment program. "They are doomed to spend the rest of their life with birth defects and or mental retardation," she said. 
GENUINE BUFFALO JERKY 
*GREAT* STOCKING STUFFERS 
* EXCELLENT * ORANGE BOWL SNACKS 
DELICIOUS LESS CHOLESTEROL ~ORE PROTEIN 
4 PIECE SAMPLE-$5.00 20 PIECES-$22.50 40 PIECES-$39.00 
Send Check or Money Order To. 
BUFFALO TRADERS P.O. Box 780522 Wichita, Kansas 67278 
~ 

r-·~-~------­
-----~-----------~­
page 6 

' . -;;; ___ :~­. . : ..~.; . ' ' ·"i:;.--·.:.::::''..,_ L----··------­0t1n.-ery areas ilmtled 10 ensure ute dmnng ~ 1990 Oomrno s Pizza. Int. IT'S TIME FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA~ Call Us! Open for lunch! 271-0300 289-0033 1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave. -------.,-------­-------­I UNDAY DOUBLE EARLY WEEK 2 LARGE PIZZAS I FEATURE SPECIAL I 1 TOPPING I I $5.99 I $4.99I I I $10.95 I I Get 2 small original I Get llarge original pizza I Get 2 large original II pizzas with tpe to~pipg of I with.the toppil}g of your 1 pizzas with y9ur favorite1I your choice. Valia I choice. Valid Mondays 1 topping. 1I Sundays only. I and Tuesdays only. I I I ~~~® Ii ·~ i ~-®I 'hlod 11IW1100.111119 Sla<es ()My Not valod Wltn IffY other otltr Pncn I V<llod 11 ~l'bOO.JIIfiQ Sla<es ()My Not valod w<tn l1fiY OChtf ottorr Pncn I 'hlld ~· p~rtiCI~III\9 SIO<e$ only ~ VJIId Wltn '1/ry other otler. Pnces I IN'f var, CuSiomer PIYS Ule1 ~~ wtlere 10(llaDit. ~ry ~as I IN'f ..at) CuSlomtt ~ U~ts 111 wrf>tfc 10QIIUDit ~nas ~ ·~ry Custo~r PJYS ~ •~• ..rttr1 ~­i::)eMty ¥US II llmrteo to ltfiSUrt ule dtMnQ Quf dnwrs urry Ins t~n S2000 ~rnreo :o en~ ute C!I"MIIQ Quf C!tNt" urry less 11\111 S2000 I ~mttrd to ensure ute drrtiOO Out dm.trs urry less INn S21l00. Our C!rM:rs v• nor Ptnaml lOt 1111 dnwnes Out~~'~ no~ Ptn~l't<liOf ~e ~ Our dr~~tt" 1re 1101 t~tnllllrd lot ~e ~  

-
Tuesday, December 11,1990 
Shuttle halts mission due 
,­


to weather and plumbing 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Columbia's astronauts were ordered to eut short their star­gazing mission Monday hneause of threatening weather at the landing site, ending a voyage vexed by computer failurns and dogged plumbing. 
NASA dnddnd to shorten the mission by one day to take ad­vantage of good weather at Edwards Air Foree Bas1~. Calif. Touehdown was scheduled for Monday night. 
Hain had b1~en forecast for thn area surrounding the dnsert base Tuesday night, with possibly worse weath1~ later in thn wnnk. 
"You've all had a fantastic mission, but all good things have got lo come to an end and you're corning horne," Mission Control's Story Musgrave told the snven-man crew Monda¥ morning. 

"Very good. We'II start get­ting ready," replied Columbia's, commander Vance Brand. 
Within minutes, astronaut­astronomers Robert Parker and Ron Parise completed the last observation with the Astro observatory's three ultraviolet telescopes. The target was Comet Levy. 
"We're disappointed we don't get the extra day, but we're ex­uberant over what we've gotten so far," said Warren Moos of Johns Hopkins University. "The last observation was a very difficult observation of a comet. We're going out with a bang." 
Astro's ground-eontrolled X­ray teleseope continued looking at stars and galaxies into the afternoon. It required less stowage time. 
Happy 2Ist PMC 


• 
Love, Moll), Dad, Meg and your iriends in Wilkes-Barre and Troy 


The Observer 
page 7 
AP Photo

Granny's got a gun 

Members of the Hampden County Women's Rod and Gun Club pose at the Springfield Revolvers Club's target range in Springfield, Mass. The 50-year-old club bills itself as the nation's oldest organization of sportswomen and now includes three genera,tions of some families am its 65 members. 
NASA gets needed 'shot in the arm' 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A high­level committee said Monday that NASA must focus on science -and not on flashy, futuristic projeets -both on the space shuttle and on the proposed spaee station "if it is not merely to drift through the decade ahead." 
The space science program "ranks above space stations, aerospace planes, manned mis­sions to the planets, and many other major pursuits which often -receive greater visibility," said the government's Advisory Committee on the Future of the 
U.S. Space Program. 
It said NA.SA was trying to do too much and allowing too lit_!le 
margin for the unexpected, leading to frequent revamping of major programs. The agency should concentrate on two ma­jor undertakings: studying Earth's environment from space in a "Mission to Planet Earth" and exploring space in a "Mission from Planet Earth." 
The committee said the space shuttle should be flown only when astronaut skills are needed and that no new shut­tles should be built after the Endeavour, now under con­struction, is completed. Instead, the committee recommends that a new unmanned hMvy-lift launch vehicle be developed and used for all but missions requiring human presence. 
"Now it's our challenge," said Vice Presidertt Dan Quayle, head of the National Space Council, aftnr he was briefed by the committee. "This report will give our space program a needed shot in the arm." 
Hichard Truly, the NASA administrator, said he has in­vited the committee and its chairman to meet with the agency's senior managnrs "so we can deal with the reeom­mendations in the report." But overall, he said, he snes no ma­jor change in NASA's pace of science programs. 

1991 ICEBERG DEBATES SIGN UP DEADLINE: DEC. 11 
• 

• 

Contact your Hall Presidents or Academic Commissioners for details 
Sponsored by Student Government 


-~--­
--~-----------­




Viewpoint

page 8 Tuesday, December 11, 1990 

•P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ...........•......... Greg Guffey Production Manager .•...•.••.•..Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor .......••..•••.•• Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .•..Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................••• Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 


LETTERS 


Advantages dominate ROTC experience for ND cadets 
Dear Editor: many of the R.O.T.C. cadets. our glorious past and the kept him in the Vatican. over-simplification. Jesus' 
This letter is in response to and I have been impressed with record they wrote upon it. Jesus was a peaceful man, anger was always rational, the criticism leveled recently their devotion to service for Their heroic deeds are their le­but in the face of cruelty, reasonable. in bounds and to against the presence of R.O.T.C. God, country and flag and not gacy to th~ living. And, in turn, hypocrisy, unfairness, en­the point. May the Notre Dame on the Notre Dame campus. I to solely worldly gain. Also, I our deeds of bravery, dedica­croaching on the rights of R.O.T.C. program have tenure see no incompatibility in the have been impressed by both tion and self-.sacrifice will be others, injustice and the degra­as long as this University shall training of R.O.T.C. cadets at cadets in the R.O.T.C. and non­our legacy to the thousands yet dation of women, He acted last. ­Notre Dame. I see a lot of ad­cadets at Notre Dame who have to be born to enjoy and perpet­strongly, decisively and angrily, Brother Edward Courtney, vantages for the cadets and the accepted the challenge of uate the freedoms that we have just as any just person would. c.s.c. non-cadets. President John F. Kennedy protected for them. This habit of portraying Jesus Columba Hall 
The religious atmosphere and when he said at his inaugural, I have no doubt that the as sweet and peaceful is an Dec. 3, 1990 opportunities available here at "Ask not what your country can cadets in the R.O.T.C. program Notre Dame are vital factors in do for you. but ask wliat you will be able to meet any and all 

Working with homeless helps 
the moral and religious devel­can do for your country." situations that may confront opment in the lives of both therri, due to the home cadets and non-cadets. Secular The R.O.T.C. cadets are not background they have brought students gain new perspective subjects, along with military being trained to kill as such. here and the superb leadership 
Dear Editor: homeless families I worked
preparation, will surely prepare The charge is nothing but an of the officers and non-com­The date was May 21, 1990. with were composed of mem­the cadets for a career in the over-simplification, to say the missioned officers who have It was the night before I was to bers who had simply lost their
military, as well as the other least. Rather, the cadets of the continued their training here. professions. It is enriching and R.O.T.C. here at Notre Dame, as I was indeed saddened by begin my eight week Summer self-este'em and confidence. All 
Service Project at the Vincent they needed were a few peoplepositive for both cadets pursu­elsewhere, are being trained to Colman McCarthy's remark, House Homeless Shelter in Fort who cared enough to helping a military career and the watch and warn, to preserve "R.O.T.C. asks Notre Dame to' Wayne, Indiana, and I wrote them. All they needed was anon-cadets pursuing other ca­and safeguard the dignity·and take Jesus Christ seriously, and these words: " ... all I know is friend.
reers to be associating together human rights of the individual Notre Dame, saluting, replies: that I am beginning a summer I found myself being that
as one body-influencing, moti­wherever the. need may arise, 'Worry riot, We don't."' I ex­vating, inspiring and enriching to protect and defend the pected better from Mr. job tomorrow that is so much friend, and you can do the each others lives. Both cadets innocent and defenseless from McCarthy, who presents himself 
more than a job. It is an expe­same. l'vfy life has changed a and non-cadets are going in aggressors and self-styled cruel as a man of peace and non-vio­rience. Summer jobs come and great deal since I first offered 
go, as does the money on'e my friendship to the people at
different directions but pur­and arbitrary totalitarian lence. A reading of Church his­suing the same glorious dictators. tory would certainly not bear earns from them. The time I the Vincent House. Through the 
spend at the Vincent House will Center for Social Concernsgoal-the good of America. Unfortunately, some will die that out. In fact, Pope Urban, be with me forever. The knowl­Summer Service Project pro­Americans, the flag and the in their selfless heroism and who called the first crusade in edge I gain, the people I meet gram, I was given the opportu­surrounding world in which we valor. Yet, they do not die in the lOth century, would have and the personal growth I ex­nity to grow close to some oflive. vain. Though silent, those who led the crusade against the perience will never leave me..." the most interesting people II have had the opportunity to have made the supreme sacri­Moslems, but was unable to do When I wrote this, I guess I will ever meet. I was given theengage in conversation with fice of their lives, speak to us of so because urgent business already had a feeling about the chance to do a small part in the 
overall impact my summer fight against homelessness inCommittee explains changes in JPW alcohol policy would have on me. Little did I this country. The Center is of­
know how right I was. fering this chance again for the Dear Editor: planation for a policy change aware that the decision was not My experience of working summer of 1991. Applications 
There has been a wave of made by the Office of Student made with regard to cost, but with homeless mothers, fathers are available from now until confusion stirring about cam­Affairs. Student Affairs brought was made in compliance with a and their children opened my Feb. 7 for the eight week pus regarding a policy change to our attention the fact that directive handed down from eyes. The homeless do not have program in cities around the that will affect this year's during dinner on Saturday Student Affairs and Indiana any disabilities or diseases. entire nation. Alumni Clubs Junior Parents' Weekend. As night there are minors at the State Law. We hope to have They are people just like any sponsor the volunteers through most have become aware, wine table who would be consuming cleared the fog with this one of us at Notre Dame. The $1400 scholarships. The oppor­is not being served at the alcohol and, more importantly, explanation. homeless are people who hon­tunity for the experience of a Presidential Dinner Saturday minors who would be serving Brooke Campbell estly want a better life for their lifetime is waiting for you. Seize night. alcohol. It goes without saying JPW Executive Coordinator families. They are people who it. 
•

The Executive Committee that Indiana Law states that Cristin McCarthy have fallen through the cracks Jennie Bruening feels that it was important that minors cannot serve alcohol. JPW Chairperson of society. They are not afraid Lewis Hall the junior class be given an ex-We want to make everyone Dec. 5, 1990 of work or lazy. Most of the Dec. 5, 1990 
DOONESBURY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It we don't succeed, then we 
run the risk of failure.' 
I 
Dan Quayle 


Viewpoint Simple dichotomy clouds over reality in the Gulf 
Tuesday, December 11, 1990 page 9 
IJear Editor: sound very free to us. Secondly, using the label of well as the possible destruction bloodshed at every turn, which 
It is refreshing to see some­He says that the reason the "evil" automatically suspends of large portions of Kuwait? Bush seems disposed to do, we 
ono so idnalistic and free of U.S. is there i_s to help out a any kind of rational thought, as Even if Hussein does control should look for new ways to 
cynicism as Hich Kurz (The small, defenseless country. apparently happened in Kurz' Kuwaiti oil, it will still be solve our problems. Bush has 
Obsnrver, Nov. 29). llow1wer, it True, Kuwait is small and de­case. It sets up a situation available, probably closer to spent much time talking about 
would be more encouraging if fenseless. However, in light of where people will blindly the price he-and OPEC-was the emergence of a new world 
this. wern coupled with reason past U.S. practice, we find this follow a leader, regardless of advocating before the invasion. order. Well, it will not be new if 
and a critical eye. reason hard to swallow; in fact, the actual merits of the case. And, if Hussein is expelled, it is still founded on violence 
Unfortunately. Kurz's discus­it is downright hypocritical. Psychologically, succumbing to nobody expects oil to go down and domination as Bush advo­
sion of the Gulf crisis did not One would be hard-pressed to the good vs. evil dichotomy to the price it was. cates. Instead, perhaps, the 
incorporate thnse traits; rather, find a country in this century may be very easy, but it does We heartily condemn new world order should include 
it was devoid of real arguments which picked on more small, not describe-the real world and Hussein's invasion of Kuwait. restraint and a focus on nonvi­
and substance and helpless countries than the U.S. can lead to ultimate disaster. And, we just as heartily support olent ways of settling disputes, 
dnmonstrated an incredible We need only to remind our­Yes, Saddam Hussein has the principles of freedom and such as sanctions. And, per­
amount of naivnte. selves of the actions the U.S. proven himself to be a brutal justice. However, the U.S. has haps, it should exclude the kind 
Kurz' basie premise seems to took in Guatemala, Chile, leader and, in this respect, can­been a poor defender of these of simplistic, dichotomous, fear­
lw that U.S. actions in the Gulf Grenada, Nicaragua-numer­not be considered legitimate. principles, many times subvert­inducing thinking which Kurz 
arise out of its basic principle ous times this century-Iran, However, giving the label "evil" ing them for some other goal, advocates. 
of the support of freedom. It is Panama and other countries to to anyone who kills some of his such as controlling oil. Kurt Mills,
hard to detnct exactly what he realize that the U.S. has not own people or invades another Aggression; in the end, cannot Off-Campus 
means by this assertion. had a consistent policy of de­country would deprive the counter aggression and, at the Mee-Ae-Kim. 
Certainly, the U.S. is not sup­fending small countries; rather, world of very many good coun­same time; uphold these princi­Off-Campus
porting freedom by supporting it has done just the opposite. tries (including the U.S.). Acts ples. Rather than resorting to Dec. 3, 1990 
the Kuwaiti government. The Kurz is right when he states which violate international 
Kuwaiti monarchy has about that saying "the U.S. has taken norms, whether perpetrated by 
1.9 million subjects. a leading role in defending the Saddam Hussein or George Christian Peacemakers' claims Approximatnly 800,000 of these world against evil" sounds Bush, should be identified as are citizens; the other 1.1 mil­naive. such, but dichotomizing the 
falsely defend Saddam Hussein
lion are afforded very few His invocation of evil harkens world is not helpful. 
rights. Of these, only back to the incredibly simplis­While at first focusing on the Dear Editor: posite point: that maybe the 
62,000-all of them men-can tic, black and white Reaganite threat to so-called freedom A recent lecture by a member United States should allow it 
vote. This state of affairs can view of the world. In the first posed by Hussein, Kurz ulti­of the "Christian Peacemaker relationships with tyrants like 
hardly be described as free and place, the U.S. supported this mately returns to the argument Teams" testified to the contin­Assad of Syria and the monar­
just. · "evil" Iraqi regime for many that he explicitly denied-oil is lied corruption of American lib­chies of Jordan and even of 
Women are completely disen­years and even forgave them the main reason for U.S. pres­eralism. If Julie Garber and the Saudi Arabia to sour. If Arab 
franchised (as they are in Saudi for attacking one of its ships ence in the Gulf. He says that if other Christian Peacemaker leaders are not interested in al­Arabia, a feudal monarchy and killing many members of not expelled from Kuwait, Teams (The Observer, Dec. 4) lowing both human rights anl,iwhich we are supposedly pro­the U.S. military. I wonder why Hussein will control the price feel that Saddam Hussein has representative governments to tecting); of course, maybe Kurz Saddam Hussein was not evil of oil. He gives a more realistic been "villainized," they should their own people, we should dons see this as just since he then (when he was using poison reason for the U.S.'s actions; visit the graves of the thou­not court them as "friends." I says that all men (no mention gas to kill Kurds in his own however, in doing so, he seems sands of Kurciish children and wonder what happens to "the of women here) are guaran­country), but now that he to partially depart from the their parents who were gassed power of Pan-Arabism" when tend all the various rights threatens something precious lack of cynicism which we by Hussein instead of meeting the Israelis raise conl(ernswhich wn hold dear. Most men to the U.S.-access to oil -he found so endearing. . with terrorist Yassar Arafat about being a nation under arl' disenfranchised in one way is the embodiment of evil, tak­Finally getting to the crux of (one of whose great, but un­siege by" its Arab neighbors. or another, too. In addition, the ing the place of the Soviet the reason the U.S. is in the heralded moments was praise Why don't the Christian Kuwaiti monarchy is a major Union. Why is it that once we Gulf, we can then ask, is it of the Chinese Massacre at Peacemakers invoke the human rights abuser, smashing lose one ultimate enemy, we worth it? Is getting oil at a Tiannamin Square). Nobody spectre of "the power of Pan­dissent and engaging in mas­quickly find one or more to cheaper price worth possibly needs to "villainize" Saddam Arabism" then, when Israelis sive censorship. This does not take its place? tens of thousands of lives, as Hussein; he does it best express fears about a 
himself. Palestinian state? Student response necessary for WVFI improvement As to the claim that Iraq has Nineteen Palestinians were 
"legitimate claims to Kuwait," shot to death in a chaotic dis­IJear h'ditor: importance, since not all survey boxes in their halls or to not onl)l are these claims false, turbance over rock throwing in Tlw Stude nl Government students received the survey. drop them off at the second but the failure to see that they Israel a couple of months ago,WVI'I Task Force, during the Input received on the surveys floor of LaFortune in the are false and 'that Hussein is and it became a major U.N. is­past eouple of months, has will be instrumental when the student government office by really a stinking dictator in the sue. Within three days of thehenn investigating possible committee formulates Tuesday, Dec. 11. Results of the great twentieth-century mold of incident, some newspapers qui­improvmnenls for WVFL The recommendations for the survey wiii be posted later. 
Mussolini, Franco, Hitler, etly mentioned that 30
task force n~eently sent out a betterment of the station and Attaturk and Stalin, renders Christian soldiers who surren­survey to obtain student input student hody. We encourage Joe Huston "Christian Peacemakers" as ig­dered to Syrian forces intoward station improvement. students to return the surveys WWI Task Force norant mouthpieces for a bru­Lebanon were put against a
liaeh rnsponse is of extreme to the student government Dec. 5, 1990 
tal tyrant: passivists who have wall and shot to death. lost their hold on centra] hu­Seventeen Turks were mur­
Americans need to display patriotism by 
man values. Iraq is simply not dered in the night by Islamic 
Vietnam. fundamentalists. Yet no voices 
Kuwait was not r\lled by Iraq of protest were raised against
supporting armed forces in Middle East 
before the British, as many what was clearly murder. The /)ear Editor: to defend the United States. to wait until he gains such a seem to think. Kuwait and what difference is that we expect .. 
Do Americans. likn the recent How do you feel when they strong bargaining chip as a nu­is now Iraq, were provinces of Israel to live up to the human ­protnstors against the military hear about U.S. citizens clear weapon? Unfortunately, the Ottoman Empire of Turkey. rights standards of western civ­prnsnnee in the Middle East, re­protesting against their to quite a few people, the idea The "straight lines" marking ilization while we do not expect ally understand the reasons involvement? For a military of waiting, which involves such national boundaries, drawn by the same of Arab and Islamic why a military offensive may be operation like the one which a serious repercussion, seems British imperialism, are no jus­countries. We ought to, for the necessary? Does the possibility may take place in January to be more preferable than military tification for naked-aggression sake of the citizens of those of a tyrant like Saddam Hussein a success, it takes more than aggression. From some of the by Iraq: its boundaries and countries. But we should also someday possessing a nuclear winning on the battlefield; it comments made in the past those of its other Arab neighbor realize that a majority of the weapon raise fear in your requires the support from the week, one could conclude that countries were also drawn by Palestinian people and mind'? The threat to oil is not people at home. With the maybe it is not the military of­the British and by the same certainly the Palestinian the rationale for the execution possibility of combat growing fensive which is in question, reasoning (which the Christian terrorist factions have sided of force; instead, it is the future each day, soldiers need to know but that the former may be too Peacemakers seem to endorse) against principle and in favor of threat to the safety and security that their effort's are being closely linked with the should fall to the most powerful a fascist strong man who of our homeland. espoused by the public, not "reenactment of the draft." land-grabber. invaded an Arab state. I think 
Wakn up America! Nobody denounced. In the midst o.f this Gulf In saying that the United this ought to be held against wants to see U.S. casualties, Maybe it is time for all of us Crisis, is it too much to expect States may be seriously Palestinians when it come to but if it is the only way of solvr to review three very important that the greatest country on underestimating "the power of the question of Palestinian ing this problem, then we must words which signify this fine earth would bond together as a Pan-Arabism," the Christian rights. One cannot invoke execute an offensive. Saddam institution: God, Country, Notre team and not fall apart? Peacemakers may have a point. principles of self-determination Hussein has had too many Dame. What does the second Whatever happened· to patrio­Another way of saying it is that when it is convenient and then chances. Do you really think, entail? Patriotism? Are we tism? Was it abused so badly in Arab states may become allied deny self-determination for <~onsidering his ideology, that displaying patriotism, when we the late sixties that we forgot against the United States when expedient or power-grabbing he will fulfill the United Nations condemn and denounce U.S. how to support the men and war comes (though I'm not sure reasons. rnsolution and pursue peaceful military participation in a women in the armed forces? I what Garber meant in saying If the Christian Peacemakers bnhavior for the future? War global movement against the don't think so, but a majority of that there was no international think things are so great in should always be a last resort. tyranny of Saddam Hussein? the opinions which have re­support, includi.ng widespread Iraq, that Hussein has been Tlw United States and many Even more important, let us not cently been expressed on the Arab and Islamic support of falsely "villainized," why don't other countries seem to have forget the fact that he is well on crisis do not seem to disprove U.S. policy thus far). If the Arab they make another fact-finding given Iraq a sufficient amount his way of obtaining a nuclear my last question. Maybe it is dictatorships and monarchies trip to Iraq, and this time offer­of time to retreat. Even if nego­weapon. I presume that for time for all of those students want their relationships with themselves as "human shields" tiating does work before Jan. many individuals, the possi­who do support the United the United States to sour, then to replace· the cunent 15, will it still prevent Saddam bility of Iraqi intercontinental States position in the Middle let it be. It would be all the hostages? This would be-far from rntaliation in the future? ballistic missiles targeted on an East to form a committee. The more reason for a new more Christian of them than 
A morn serious problem is American city does not pose committee could send out a American independence: from their current propaganda ef­not whethf~r we all agree with enough threat to justify the use more positive and patriotic the oil companies and bloated forts. tlu~ reasons for our involve­of force. message. military · complex, from Eugene Rochberg-Halton mnnt, but that there is a severe Many citizens seem to think John J. Gerosa /II antiqemocratic corporatism Associate Professor laek of support for the men and that we are not giving him Off-Campus and the military welfare state. Department ofSociology women who have volunteered enough time. Are we supposed Dec. 7, 1990 Yet no one has raised the op-Dec. 5, 1990 
-------------~--------------·--------------------~----------­
-----:----­

Accent

page 10 Tuesday, December 11, 1990
-
ND law student Bernardo Garcia uses leadership to attain solutions 
By JOHN FISCHER 
Accent Writer 
Notre Dame is a home to sev­eral influential people in differ­ent areas of endeavor. Most prominent among them are the University's past and current presidents, Fathers Hesburgh and Malloy, and its foo~ball coach, Lou Holtz. 
A new generation of influen­tial leaders is emerging at Notre Dame, and none have made their influence felt so much as Notre Dame Law School student Bernardo M. Garcia. 
Garcia, recently named to Hispanic Business magazine's 100 most influential Hispanic leaders, presides over the Law Student Division of the Hispanic Nat-ional Bar Association (HNBA). 
Having taken office in September of 1990, Garcia parlayed an organization of approximately 100 members nationwide into a group cur­rently numbering almost 3,500. 
Garcia credits this phenomenal membership inc,rease to . better communication with the members from diverse regions of the country. Garcia believes the association's increased strength and especially unity are necessary factors in accomplishing his and the or­ganization's threefold goals. 
These goals, which also served as Garcia's successful election platform, are to in­crease educational opportuni­ties for Hispanic law students, to increase the economic strength of same through the granting of scholarships, and to 
i\t;.
r 

ensure equality in the legal community. 
A program called HITS (Hispanic Invitation To Succeed) is the vehicle for the achievement of the first goal. The program encourages Hispanic undergraduates to seek further education in law school with t.hoe assistance of the second goal, economic strength. 
Garcia's administration has established an educational trust, and for the first time in the history of the Law Student Division, scholarships will be granted to deserving candi­dates. The trust fund will be subsidized chiefly by means of an awards banquet to be held at Notre Dame. Three Lifetime Achievement Awards will be granted to Hispanic citizens who have distinguished them­s-elves in the legal professio~. 
A national job fair, the first held by the Law Student divi­sion, took place this past September, in Denver. 125 law students had a chance to survey the opportunities presented by more than 50 employers. 
Overall, more than 800 inter­views were conducted, con­tributing to the achievement of Garcia's third goal, increasing the number of Hispanics in the nation's top 250 law firms. Currently, the percentage of Hispanic employees in these firms is less than 1.5 percent. 
In practical terms, Garcia as president acts "as a liaison be­tween Hispanic law students and the rest of the legal com­munity." This contact includes dialogue with employers, cor­porations, and federal and state government. He maintains contac.t with a fifteen member cabinet spread throughout the United States through extensive letter writing and telephone calls. He admits that efficient communication with his officers 

is difficult. but absolutely necessary in order to achieve the group's goals. 
Future plans include a January conference of leaders of the legal and corporate world, to be held concurrent to a meeting of the Law School Division's Board of Governors. Both events are to be held on the Notre Dame campus.Garcia, a native of Naples. Florida. attended West Point Military Academy for two years as an undergraduate. He completed his undergraduate education at the University of Southern California. After a graduate education that included two years at Yale, Garcia will graduate here in May. He plans to go into private practice in Phoenix upon his graduation. 
A desire to be part of the so­lution and not part of the prob­lem, according to a common adage, has been the impetus behind Garcia's le.adership ef­forts. He plans to continue his membership in the HMBA as a part of th·e Attorney Division, and wishes to continue serving the community in whatever ca­pacity he is able. 
Garcia says, "The role of the Notre Dame Law School should not be overlooked. The admin­istration has helped me with travel, logistical support, and the guidance that I need. The success of the HMBA Law Student Division is due greatly to their support." 
He says he is grateful for all the Law School has done for him and he looks forward to assisting the school in the fu­ture. 
r-----~---------------,1 

vlaisrtiodursawcasrferoemrs 
By JOHN FISCHER 
Accent Writer 
Bernardo Garcia, referring to the honor he teceived of being named to the list of the 100 most influential Hispanics in America. says. "I am honored to be on the list. When you see the quality of the human beings on the list, .you can't help but be impressed.H 
The list, compiled by Hispanic Business magazine, encompasses a diverse group of people in a variety of professions. Among the many notable people on the list are athletes and artists such as marathon runner~ Maria Trujillo, writer Oscar Hijuelos. columnist Al MartinP-z. opera singer Placido Domingo, and track coach Tom Te11ez. 
Others who achieved distinction include Surgeon General Antonio Novello, Secretary of Education Lauro Cavazos. and Congressmen Henry B. Gonzalez. Esteban Torres. and Bill Richardson. 
The list is selected by the e,ditorial board of Hispanic Business magazine from amongst submitted nomina­tions. The board attempts to display the diversity of Hispanic contributions by selecting people from various fields, including politics, business, law, entertainment, and sports. among others. 

Rock your way through finals 
. 


started banging another kid's ~t:~E::j:==:f==.;t==t=~~· head against a bench. They got 
_ in a fight and the teacher came in and hosed them down with a 
It doesn't seem fair. Notre Dame's classes start in the. middle of the summer and don't end until Christmas Eve. Couldn't they have found an­other way of cramming 20 credits a semester into every­one's schedules? 
Of course they could have. But as part of a long-standing tradition, each year the powers that be make a pact to end school on December 15 only if the annual inter-quad snowball fight makes "Crime of the Week." 
Other JWUrces claim they agree to/extend vacation. well into second semester if Dillon really gets pummeled. Then they run around in moose 
heads and watch dirty movies . But as much as that disturbing topic merits further investiga­tion, it's not the point of this week's column ... 
· The point is: we've got fi­nals. And it's a sharp point. 
My roommate told me about his hardest final so far, in eighth grade woodshop. 
"I was working on my pic­ture fraij'le when the guy nex.t to me got frustrated. J!e 
. . 
fire extinguisher. He became the principal at some other school the year after I left." 
Barring the fnndamental truths contained in his story, I'm sure you've already guessed that finals here will be a little diff!)rent. But not much. 
And while it's hard to be­come an expert on something you·ve never experienced, -a sense of duty forced me to re­search finals. Here's a sample of what to expect: 
Physics 666 Final Exam-If your GPA is orbiting the earth at 2,000 miles per hour and be­gins to accelerate downwards at 100 miles per day, will you still be able to have a car on campus next semester? 
Don't panic. There's hope. And it's found in, of all places, the honor code. 
To some 'people, the honor code is kind of a downer. To them, it simply means you can't cheat. But they usually don't appreciate its finer points. WHAT YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED to KNOW ABOUT THE HONOR CODE, BUT WERE AFRAID TO ASK: Because you are "on your honor," you can use a Walkman during your final exams. Staggering, isn't it? 
It's always nice to tailor your 
. 

Chuck Young 
A Fresh Perspective 
listening pleasure to the test. So here are some scores that might help your scores (sorry) on different finals: 
Economics: "Money," "Get a Job," "I Wanna Be Rich" ... The choices are endless. 
Thermodynamics: "Hot, Hot, Hot" by Buster Poindexter and "Ice, Ice, Baby" by Vanilla Ice. 
Physics: "The Future's So Bright, I Gotta Wear Shades" by Timbuk 3. "Particle Man" by They Might Be Giants is a good back-up. . 
Theology: Handel's "Messiah," King Missle's "Jesus Was Way Cool" and M.C. Hammer's "U Can't Touch This." If you absolutely can't find copies of these, try "Only the Good Die Young" by Billy Joel at your own risk. A last re­sort: "Devil Inside" by INXS. · 
Calculus: Any heavy metal song about blowing your brains out. Judas Priest is good. 
Humanities: A "book on tape," of course. 
Intro to Philosophy: Anything by R.E.M. or U2. Radio static is good, too. 
Psychology: Prince's "Let's go Crazy"or practically any­thing else by him. He's from Minnesota, so you've got to like him. 

Sociology: "Welcome to the Jungle" by Guns 'N Roses. 
Any Engineering Course: Bobby McFerrin's "Don't Worry, Be Happy." This· is good for Those tests where the mean is 17 out of 100. 
Chemistry: "She Blinded Me With Science" by Thomas Dolby. And "1812 Overture." Play it whenever you get a right answer. Try to control· yourself, though, and don't do the "Lou" cheer. This is a test. 
Astronomy: Prince's "The Arms of O'rien." And you thought he couldn't sing. Also, the B-52's "Cosmic Thing" and Erasure's "Star." 
Navy ROTC: "Yellow Submarine" by the Beatles. And U2's "War" is good for Military History exams. 
History: Easy. Billy Joel's "We Didn't Start the Fire." Don't worry, this won't be seen as cheating since, outside of its chronological order, the song doesn't really mean anything. Unless a question on your test is : "Make useless list of events, beginning with Billy Joel's birthday," you're safe. 
Criminology: Another easy one. Public Enemy's "911 is a Joke." (I know what you're thinking, but 2 Live Crew isn't that good.) 
Finals can be rough on the sweat glands. But, a week wit no classes can only be so bad And, like other equally painfu and depressing things you tr not to think about (say, death) great things lie just beyon them. 
Besides, it all builds charac ter. Take my friend Paul, fo instance, a senior I ran into a the dining hall the other day. 
"How's it going, Chuck?" 
Not the greatest, I told him. just bombed a major Chern test. 
"When's your final?" 
Monday. 
"You want some· advice?" 
Sure. 
"All right, Chuck. Don't be lieve what they say, skip break fast. Monday morning: N beer. Got that, Chuck? No bee Monday morning. It works fo 

me." 
Don't you think that's kind o harsh? "Hey, sometimes you'v gotta sacrifice." 
Somebody who probabl played golf once said: "Luck L· when preparation meets oppor­tunity." Good luck with finaL· and Merry Christmas. 
See ya next semester. 
All right. you've got a month off, so write me a letter! Send letters. gifts, Christmas cards. fruit baskets, etc. to: Chuck, c/o Accent, 3rd Floor ofLaFortune. 


Tuesday,December11=·=1=9=90=======================1~~~-T_h_e~O~bs~e-~_e_r~~--------------~--~----~~~~~----~~p_a~ge__1_1 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
AND CAR RATES. CALL NOW! I 

3. Claymore Scotch Whiskey LIMITED AVAILABILITLYII OVERHEARD RECENTLY IN 
2. Wondertwin powers
NOTICES FORSALE ] 
OASIS TICKETS AND TOURS CHICAGO: 
ACTIVATE! ••• CINCINNATI FOR SALE: '85 FORD TOPAZ 1-800·229-4493 10. "Yes, we are taking my car 1. It's the end of her hose as we TYPING AVAILABLE but neither Pete nor I will know itlll 
RED -2DOOR287-4082 I desparately need a ride to Need a student ticket for this be driving ..."
83,000 MILES Cincinnati on the friday of final MORNINGS: 239-7979 Wednesday's basketball game? 9. "SHMOOZ!!" IRISH MUSIC and DANCING 
TYPING term week, and will certainly help with Call Cheryl at 4321 8. "Watch out, B-B-Busterl"
OTHER TIMES: 2991251 with Seamaisin papersJreportsJieners/resumes. gas $. Please call Kristen 7. HAPPY BIRTHDAY BELLA!!! (Perplexed? Say, Hay Machine) 
VISTA 6-STEEL STRING 

Pick up and delivery available. McDonald at x2927. 6. "The word of the weekend Thursday, Dec. 13th
ACOUSTIC GUITAR WITH CASE. 

277-5134 is PACE" 
PERSONALS 

CLUB 23 NEVER USED. PAID $270, 
Cathy. CINCINNATI "" 5. "Let's go to the Commons" 
ASKING $150. CALL MARY 

ORANGE BOWL SPECIAL Stay 4. "Hey Todd, are you alone? 
BETH 287-5850. 

INTERESTED IN PURE. CLEAN I need a ride to Philly area on your own private yacht for only How do you work the VCR?" How many different ways can DRINKING WATER IN YOUR for x-mas break. PleaseII!! $28.50/pp/day. 3. "Bro ... Bro wake up! You're YOU annoy Bro? 
ONE-WAY TICKET 12/16 SB TO 

OWN Call Kathy x4238 Special Air Fares, tool! late for your PT test ill" 
NEWARK, NJ. 277-3545 OR 239­

ROOM HERE AT ND? FOR INFO Call Easy Sailing for details 2. "Do you have anything along 10. Try to wake him up 
7609.

CALL x1758. Responsible Professional Seeking 1 (800)780-4001. the lines of pain 9. Wet Willies 
HousesiHing Opportunity. ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TICKET relievers?" 8. Spill beer on him TYPING -Students\ Finals & Available Jan-Aug '91. Call FROM SB TO HOUSTON. AVOID THE RUSH I 1 . "SEFB -it's not just a 7. Pull his tie term papers have you stressed Kathleen, 234-0669. LV.12/21, RET.12/30. $280.272-AVOID THE LINES I state of mind ...it's a life­6. Stick your fingers in his 
out?ll Relax. Here's 
9392 OR 654-7740. style\" mouth typing help. Early or last minute. PLACE YOUR CHRISTMAS 
5. Call him "Burke" $Negotiable. Phone One-way plane ticket GREETING CLASSIFIEDS And remember, Groove IS in the 4. Ollie hair ... in his milk, on 
234-4204. Ask for Maria or BtD 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY to/from South Bend SOON. THE LAST ISSUE OF heart I his clothes, in his bed ... leave message. 
FOR RENT 
219-291-7153 to/from Phila.,N.Y.C., or THE OBSERVER IS FRIDAY, 3. Ask him about his Mallards 
Wash.D.C., good any1ime DEC.14. 2. 1 keg + 4 cups+ Beeman • Typing ROOMS FOR RENT 2ND SEM. before 12/20 or after DO IT EARLY AND GET IT DONE HAPPY 21st, DEB! NO BATHROOM STOP Pickup & Delivery 6-7 BDRM. HOME. INDIVIDUALS 1/2/91. $100. BEFORE FINALSIII I hope you're ready for tonight! I'd 1 . "I have one question ... why 277-7406 OR GROUPS. Call Mike 288-2083 really like it if you could last past 5 is EVERYONE in Chicago 
232-1776. HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, HOT shots ... ! don't need two "21st" such an A-H-??1" 
$$FOR BOOKS ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TICKET SHOT III birthdays! Used Texts bought and sold PRIVATE ROOM FOR GRAD FROM SB TO NEWARK N.J. Good luck! Pandora's Books 233-2342 STUDENT, UTILITIES, $200/MO. LV.12/22, RET.1/15,$230 Krista Hood! I Love the Stace-monster corner of ND ave and Howard SHARE KITCHEN & COMMON CALL JOHN X1879 Your Kris Kringle just wanted to Mike Richardson and John Kroepfl 
ROOMS WITH FIVE OTHERS. leave you a note to say hello and For sale VW GTI '84 couldn't get chicks if their lives 232-8444 noon-6. ORANGE BOWL FLIGHT TICKET have a nice day. for INFO. call 255-2719 depended on it. But therir ATIN: 
Leaving St. Louis 5:00 Dec. 30, Keep guessing who I am, roommate is a total stud. Blair All women Interested in LG. BEDROOM IN LG. HISTORIC returning from Miami Jan. 3. Your KK O'Connor has no sense of humor. joining LADIES OF COLUMBUS­HOME DOWNTOWN. Call Patx 233-7328. Asking NEED RIDE TO /FROM PITI FOR Tom Gibbons loves Milli Vanilli. Please anend meeting WED AVAIL. JAN. 1. 289-4383. NON· $300 or best offer. To my Knight, XMAS $ JOANNE 1275 (12/12), ?PM at Knights of SMOKERS ONLY. Thank you so much for my 
Columbus SALE beautifu I roses and for another Hey gorgeous, NEAR N.D comfortable, secure ALL NEW: K-2 SKIS-180 great weekend. I can't wait 'till Happy 21st B-day! What apt: 1 bdrm -$255 NORDICA BOOTS-1 0 next weekend when you show me say you buy for the next 11
LOST/FOUND 
dep., references 616-483-9572. BINDINGS, POLES $200.00 around Chicago. We'll have months! You may be 21 first, 
289-4179 another night of sex, Boones and but remember 30, 40, .... 1 I lost a black "Sun Ice" ski CAMPUSVIEW APARTMENTS snooring ... Does this mean we can use )acket with fluorescent blue RESERVE YOUR APT. FOR HEART-SHAPED OPAL RNG Love, K-bird my b-day presents now? and red stripes and a blue NEXT YEAR. CALL 272-1441. 
W/2 DIA. CHIPS. COST inner lining. If found please $170-WILL SELL FOR $90. Pepe Packard, known to his Love, call Phil at x1436. Cooperative household seeks LISA 259-6841. closest companions as "Poop," your scruffy dweeb roommate. Near campus, cheap, died Saturday from internal Help! I Lost 6 keys plus bike fun. 232-3330 ORANGE BOWL PLANE TICKET bleeding brought about by Blair O'Connor is a swell guy. lock key btwn. Carroll Hall 12129-1\2 frequent collisions with the Chicks really dig him. -KT 
Last Yeu 160
and SDH on Tue. nite. On Nike 2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 FromO"HARE walls of 318 Grace. Mr. orange chain. Call Bryan at MINUTES $268.00 o.b.o. Packard is survived by his MF-Thanks to you and your tami, People Went. Watch~ 1 x4521 for reward! FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON x4982 loving, yet negligent guardian, for dinner. I won't put gum behind For My Name After 
425 MONTH+ DEPOSIT Brian "Fudge" Packard. In lieu my ear if you won't pretend you're Break! ! 232-3616 of flowers, please send calling from Miami. 1...!::!:.::::~~--------_..
TICKETS 

Bird, Celtics defeat Rockets 
IIOUSTON (AP) -Larry Bird scored eight consncutive points in a latn 15-0 Boston run Monday night as thn Cnltics beat the llouston Hocknts 107-95. 
Vt~rnon Maxwell gave llouston a 91-90 lead with rive minutes left on his fourth 3-pointer of the game, but thn Rockets didn't scorn again until only 18 seconds remained, and they trailed 105-91 at that point. 
Beforll Bird took over, Brian Shaw scornd seven of nine Boston points for a 92­91 lead with 4:30 remaining. Bird then made a pair of 3-pointers. 
Shaw scored 26 points, 
grabbed 12 rebounds and had seven assists for Boston, which has won 12 of its last 14. Kevin McHale scored 23 and Bird 21 with 10 rnbounds and seven as­sists. 
Maxwell scored 24 points for Houston, followed by Akeem Olajuwon with 18 points and 13 rebounds. 
Maxwell made consecutive 3-pointers in the third quarter as Houston built a 71-64 lead with 4:37 left in the period. But when Olajuwon went to the bench for a breather with 2:50 left, McHale began going insidfl. McHale made 8 of Boston's last 12 points in the period. 
Tar Heels squeak by Wildcats 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. (AP) ­Pete Chilcutt's dunk with 62 seconds remaining capped a second-half rally that led No. 9 North Carolina to an 84-81 victory Monday night over previously unbeaten and 18th­ranked Kentucky. 
Both teams, now 4-1, came into the game with 1,483 victories, tied for the most in college basketball history. Kentucky blew a 12-point lead built on 3-point shooting and watched the Tar Heels whittle away at the gap. 
Rick Fox's 3-pointer with 
1:24 remaining came after Sean Woods missed on a drive and North Carolina trailed 81­80. 

Reggie Hanson missed a short shot in the lane, and in the scramble for the ball, Fox retrieved it near the sideline and saved it to Hubert Davis, who passed to the wide-open Chilcutt for the dunk. 
Kentucky missed a chance to regain the lead and North Carolina ran down the clock with its four corners offense. King Rice was fouled with one second left and he made both free throws to clinch the vic­tory. 
Chilcutt, Fox and Rice -the three seniors on a team whose freshman class has been highly touted -scored 14 points apiece for North Carolina. George Lynch and Hubert Davis scored 13 points each for the Tar Heels. 
Kentucky overcame early cold shooting and 10 turnovers with a 3-point binge near the end of the half. John Pelphrey's 3-pointer with 4:34 left gave Kentucky a 30-28 lead. Richie Farmer made three more 3-pointers and, with two free throws by Pelphrey, led the Wildcats to a 41-33 lead with 53 seconds remaining. 
North Carolina had the worst of a turnover-plagued first half, and compounded its problems with poor shooting in the closing minutes of the period. 
100 DOLLAR REWARD donations to the PATM party -Flo 
Lost Wallet property of Eduardo HOUSES AVAIL. FOR 91-92 YR. UHANGI:: t:!UWL TICKETS fund. Bocock. Contains vital 5-6 BDRMS. REASONABLE CALL (800) 226-8499 Jeanne, Documentation. Urgent! RATES. 232-1776. BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR Meet me Friday at the Wooden 
Please call272-6562. No 4 ORANGE BOWL TICKETS NEXT SEMESTER FOR 2 YR. Indian. We'll have a pow-wow. 
Questions Asked. 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, FOR SALE: ROW 15, 25 yard line. OLD. You bring the wampum and I'll or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, turn.. (305) 255-3432. M-W-F or T-TH or M-F bring the teepee. washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or 8 AM-NOON OR 1 PM. Love, Arthur 
WANTED 288-5653 ORANGE BOWL TIX -WALKING DISTANCE. P.S. Hurry up or we'll miss the 317-879-8497 234-8743. Christmas Mass. 
1991-g2 Reserve your 6,5,4, Earn $300 tp $500 per week or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, turn., ORANGE BOWL TICKETS (4) Murph-Interviews for eligible bachelors Reading Books at home. Call washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. CALL Just ask him. Only kidding, I'm a will begin soon for my DRAMATIC 1 -615-4 73-7 440 Ext. B 340 288-5653 TOM (51S) 931-7116. LEAVE chicken (of the sea) too. Plan to roommate since I will be leaving 
MESSAGE. dine with us tonight, if you please. her next semester. Sign up ASAP ANYBODY going towards Single 2-Room Apt. -cath with the 'verdant' one. Bloomington or Champaign, IL $125 w/ uti!. ORANGE BOWL TIX'S. 50 YD. Really-I will miss you muchly after 6:15 Fri. 12/21? NEED ride 15 min. walk from Campus LINE. (305) 891-0581. II!! JAMES CAMPBELL IS 26 !I!! next year. Can I take Trevor with x2239 Bob x3234 1!11 JAMES CAMPBELL IS 26 1111 me? 
AVAILABLE: ONE ROUND-TRIP OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 A quaint studio in lovely old AIR TICKET, CHICAGO TO The adventurer, teacher, and part­Deni, the Deed is Done mo. Summer, Yr. round, All mansion 1/2 mile from campus LONDON, 26 DEC. TO 8 JAN. time scoundrel celebrates his 26th The Thesis Takes nme Countries, All fields. Free info. 225 plus deposit please call PHONE 233-3745. year on But Babe-Write IJC, PO Bx 52-2888595 Was it Worth it! 
Now leasing lofoyeHe Square Townhomes 4 &. 5bedroom apts.avcilabl1 Less th111 1Mile from Notre Dome Features Include: -Security Systems-Central Air -Washer &Dryer -Good Neighborhood -Dishwashers Call 232-8256 
Corona Del Mar CA 92625 ORANGE BOWL CLASSIC 1991 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1990. (alliteration?) NOTRE DAME VS. COLORADO -cath 3 DAYS/2 NIGHTS OF FUN AND HAPPY BIRTHDAY, DUDE !!!!!!1!1! 
\\'' ,, fiJ,
WANTED: FEMALE FOOTBALL IN MIAMI. Top 10 Quotes from PE Formal UPPERCLASSMAN TO SHARE DECEMBER 31 -JANUARY 2 From: Darren, Dave, Karen, Scot, 10. She picked her nose?! VERY NICE FAMILY-OWNED PRIME GAME TICKETS -HOTEL and Steve 9. On the 2nd day of Christmas ... HOME IN SECURE ACCOMMODATIONS. (Beleg & Paco, too Ill) 8. D'YER MAK'ER headbanging 
~,:.~
NEIGHBORHOOD. 7 MINS. '"NEW YEAR'S EVE 7. Groove is in the heart 
If you videotaped the 
Give to the United Way. 
Tenn or USC games, FROM CAMPUS. $260/MO. CELEBRATION CRUISE'" 6. GO HANK!! GO HANK!! could you give me a call?? -Lisa UTILITIES INCL. 234-5316 OR $599.00 PER PERSON DOUBLE 5. Overweight lover in the house\ 
" 
x4842 234-7587. OCCUPANCY. LOW AIRFARE 4. OH NO! Mark spilled AGAIN I 


·~--~---­
Scoreboard 

Tuesday, December 11, 1990 TOP 25 BASKETBALL
NFL STANDINGS 
All EST How the AP Too 25 teams fared Monday;
EASTERN CONFERENCE BASEBALL All Times EST
G FG FT Pis AIIQ 

1. UNLV (2·0) did not play.
Atlantic Division Woolridge, Den. 19 209 150 568 29.9 American League AMERICAN CONFERENCE w L Pet. GB CLEVELAND INDIANs-Announced the East 
2. Arkansas (7·1) did not play.
Barkley, Phil. 19 194 168 564 29.7 
3. Syracuse (7·0) did not play.
Boston 16 4 .800 Jordan, Chi. 19 227 98 555 29.2 resignation Gary Sherwood, director of ticket sales. w L T Pet. PF PA 4. Arizona (7·1) did not play. 
Philadelphia 13 6 .684 21/2 Named Tony DeMacio national scouting y-Buffalo 11 2 0 .846 373 207
King, Wash. 19 220 113 555 29.2 
5. Georgetown (5·0) did not play.
New Jersey 8 11 .421 7 112 Robinson, S.A. 15 149 111 409 27.3 supervisor. y-Miami 10 3 0 .769 275 184 6. UCLA (6·0) did not play. 
New York 7 11 .389 8 SEATTLE MARINER8-Acquired Dennis Hood, Indianapolis 5 8 0 .385 200 281 Washington 6 13 .316 9 112 Ewing, N.Y. 18 183 475 26.4 outfielder, from the Atlanta Braves for Scott Taylor, N.Y. Jets 4 9 0 .308 216 295K.Malone, Utah 19 176 154 507 26.7 
7. Indiana (7·1) did not play.
109 Miami 5 12 .294 9 112 Mullin, G.S. 19 188 114 500 26.3 pitcher. Agreed to terms with Chuck Jackson, New England 1 12 0 154.077 366 8. Ohio State (4·0) did not play. 
9. North Carolina (5-1) beat No. 18 Kentucky 84-81. 
Central Division infielder-outfielder. to a Triple A contract for the Central
Olajuwon, Hou. 18 189 86 464 25.8 
Cincinnati 7 6 0 .538 292 294 10. Duke (6·2) did not play. 
Detroit 14 .700 17 97 414 1991 season. Houston 7 6 0 .538 324 243 11. Georgia (5-0) did not play. 
6 Wilkins,Atl. 151 24.4 
Milwaukee 14 6 .700 Richmond, G.S. 14 132 55 334 23.9 National League 6 .538 12. LSU (4-1) did not play.
PITTSBURGH PIRATE8-Announced that Gary Pittsburgh 7 0 234 200 Cleveland 10 10 .500 4 Redus, outfielder, has accepted salary arbitration. 
Chicago 12 7 .632 1112 Pierce, Mil. 17 131 112 393 23.1 
Cleveland 2 t1 0 .154 201 396 13. Oklahoma (7 -1) beat Coppin State 98·79.
Tisdale, Sac. 17 154 83 391 23.0 
14. St. John's (6·0) did not play.
Charlotte 8 11 .421 5 112 Smith, LAC 16 143 77 363 22.7 BASKETBALL West 15. Pittsburgh (6·1) did not play.
Indiana 8 12 .400 6 Natlona Basketball Association Kansas City 9 4 0 .692 314 199
Worthy, LAL 17 158 63 384 22.6 
16. Connecticut (4-1) did not play.
Atlanta 7 11 .389 6 WASHINGTON BULLET8-Waived Larry LA Raiders 9 4 0 .692 268 225
Drexler, Port. 19 160 102 429 22.6 
17. South Carolina (6-1) beat Charleston 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Robinson, guard. Seattle 7 6 0 .538 242 240
Miller, Ind. 20 134 168 451 22.6 
Southern 69-51. 

Midwest Division Continental Basketball Association San Diego 6 7 0 .462 272 220 18. Kentucky (4-1) lost to No. 9 North Carolina 84-8 
w L Pet. GB SIOUX FALLS SKY FORCE-Named Leo Denver 3 10 0 .231 277 334
Field Gosl Percentage 19. Virginia (5·2) did not play.
San Antonio 10 5 .667 Parent assistant general manager. NATIONAL CONFERENCE
FG FGA 1'1:1 

20. Alabama (2-2) did not play.
Utah 12 7 .632 USA Basketball East
Williams, Port. 96 147 .653 
21. Michigan State (2-2) did not play.
Houston 11 9 .550 1 112 West, Phoe. 63 98 .643 USAB-Named Florida Coach Lon Kruger w L T Pet. PF PA 163 22. Southern Mississippi (2-1) did not play.
Dallas 6 11 .353 5 McHale, Bos. 150 248 .605 coach of the U.S. team for the 1991 Junior Men's x-N.Y. Giants 11 2 0 .846 285 242 23. Georgia Tech (3-2) did not play.
Minnesota 6 12 .333 5 112 Barkley, Phil. 194 322 .602 World Championships. Washington 8 5 0 .615 299 Orlando 5 15 .250 71/2 HOCKEY Philadelphia 7 6 0 .538 325 275 24. East Tennessee State (6-1) did not play.
Robinson, S.A. 149 263 .567 
25. Texas (3-2) did not play.
Denver 4 15 .211 8 Schremp!, Ind. 103 182 .566 National Hockey League Dallas 6 7 0 .462 193 255 Pacific Division NEW YORK ISLANDER8-Recalled Greg Parks, Phoenix 5 8 0 .385 206 308 Portland 18 1 .947 Rebounding center; Derek Laxdal and Tom Fitzgerald, right Central NCAA SCORES 
G Cl Del Tot A~~g

LA Lakers 11 6 .647 6 wings: and Dean Chynoweth, defenseman, from x-Chicago 10 3 0 .769 290 207 Golden State 12 7 .632 6 Olajuwon, Hou. 18 65 186 251 13.9 Capital District of the American Hockey League. Green Bay 6 7 0 .462 241 270 KENTUCKY (81) Phoenix 10 7 .588 7 K.Malone, Utah 19 66 PITTSBURGH PENGUIN8-Recalled Troy Minnesota 6 7 0 .462 297 252 Mashburn 7·12 0-0 15, Pelphrey 7-16 6-7 24, 
1~8 224 11.8 LA Clippers 9 9 .500 81/2 Ewing, N.Y. 18 40 167 207 11.5 Loney, left wing, and Jim Kyte, defenseman, from Tampa Bay 5 8 0 .385 210 311 ·Hanson 5·11 0·0 10, Woods 3-12 0-0 6, Brassow Seattle 5 12 .294 12 Oakley, N.Y. 18 53 149 202 11.2 Muskegon of the International League. Detroit 4 9 0 .308 301 345 3-7 0-0 8, Farmer 3-9 0·0 9, Feldhaus 3-4 2-2 8, 166
Sacramento 3 14 .176 14 Robinson, S.A. 15 64 102 11.1 COLLEGE West Martinez 0-1 0-0 0, Thompson 0-1 0-0 0, Braddy 0­
Monday's Games Barkley, Phil. 19 86 121 207 10.9 ARMY-Signed Bob Sutton, football coach, to a x-San Francisco 12 1 0 .923 297 199 0 0-0 0, Thomas 0·0 0-0 o, Davis 0·0 1-2 1. Totals New Jersey 121, Charlotte 115 multiyear contract. New Orleans 6 7 0 .462 235 239 31-73 9-11 81. Boston 1 07, Houston 95 Assists BOSTON COLLEGE-Named Chet Gladchuk LA Rams 5 8 0 . 385 305 346 NORTH CAROLINA (84) 
Tuesday's Games G No. Avg. athletic director. Atlanta 3 1 0 0 .231 292 332 Chilcutt 6·11 2-3 14, Lynch 5-8 3-4 13, Montross San Antonio at Detroit, 7:30 p.m. Johnson, LAL 17 230 13.5 MANHATTAN-Announced that women's soccer x-clinched division title 1-3 0-1 2, Fox 5-14 3-3 14, Rice 5·8 3·3 14, Rodl1­Miami at New York, 7:30 p.m. Stockton, Utah 19 254 13.4 will be elevated from a club sport to NCAA Division y-clinched playoff berth 1 3-4 5, Phelps 0-1 4-4 4, Rozier 0-3 1-4 1, Davis Philadelphia at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Adams, Den. 10 132 13.2 I status, effective fall semester 1991. Named Mike Sunday's Games 5-9 2-4 13, Reese 1-1 0·0 2, Sullivan 0·0 0-0 0, 
Chicago at Milwaukee, 8 p.m. Bogues, Char. 18 199 11.1 Alosco women's soccer coach. Buffalo 31, Indianapolis 7 Harris 0-2 0-0 0, Salvadori 0·0 0·0 0, Wenstrom 0­LA Clippers at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Grant, LAC 18 187 10.4 VANDERBILT-Announced Morgan Wheat, Houston 58, Cleveland 14 1 0-0 o. Totals 29-62 23-32 84. Washington at Denver, 9:30p.m. Price, Clev. 16 166 10.4 basketball forward, has quit the team. New York Giants 23, Minnesota 15 Halftime-Kentucky 41, North Carolina 33. 3­
Sacramento at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. K.Johnson, Phoe. 17 172 10.1 Pittsburgh 24, New England 3 point goals-Kentucky 10-19 (Pelphrey 4-6, Golden State at Utah, 9:30p.m. Hardaway, G.S. 19 192 10.1 Phoenix 24, Atlanta 13 Farmer 3·6, Brassow 2-5, Mashburn 1-2), North Indiana at Portland, 10:30 p.m. Thomas, Det. 20 190 9.5 NFL BOX San Francisco 20, Cincinnati 17, OT Carolina 3-9 (Davis 1-1, Rice 1·2, Fox 1-6). Fouled 
Porter, Port. 19 180 9.5 Seattle 20, Green Bay 14 out-None. Rebounds-Kentucky 32 (Mashburn 
Washington 10, Chicago 9 10), North Carolina 45 (Chilcutt 10). Assists­NBA BOXES Kansas City 31 , Denver 20 Kentucky 13 (Woods 5), North Carolina 20 (Fox 7). 
LA Raiders 14 7 14 3-38 
Detroit 21 3 0 7-31 First Quarter 

New Orleans 24, Los Angeles Rams 20 Total fouls-Kentucky 25, North Carolina 14. A­CHARLOTTE (115) BOSTON (1 07) Miami 23, Philadelphia 20, OT 21,572.
Oat-Sanders 35 run (Murray kick), 2:09.

Newman 6·13 6-9 19, Gilliam 7·16 4-5 18, Reid 
Bird 8-23 3-4 21, Gamble 6·9 4-4 16, Parish 2-3 LAR---Gault 68 pass from Schroeder (Jaeger Monday's Game COPPIN S~. (79)
6-13 6·9 18, Bogues 8-9 0-0 16, Chapman 8-16 8­
3·3 7, Lewis 4-14 0-0 8, Shaw 10-16 6-9 26, kick), 2:35. Los Angeles Raiders 38, Detroit 31 Stewart 9-14 6·1 0 24, Johnson 4·13 2·4 11,9 24, Curry 4·10 1-2 9, Tripucka 2·3 3-4 7, Gattison 
McHale 9-16 5-7 23, Kleine 0·1 1-2 1, Brown 2-6 1· Det-Sanders 5 run (Murray kick), 3:47. Saturday, Dec. 15 Hammond 1-10-02, Isaac 10-193-427, Yarbary1-2 2-2 4, Gill 0-3 0·0 0. Totals 42-85 30·40 115. 
2 5. Totals 41-88 23-31 107. LAR-AIIen 2 run (Jaeger kick), 8:23. Buffalo at New York Giants, 12:30 p.m. . 0·3 3·5 3, McCollum 2-4 4·4 8, Mazyck 0-4 2-2 2,NEW JERSEY (121) 
Washington at New England, 4 p.m. Morris 5-8 7-8 17, Haley 7-13 4-4 18, Bowie 7-18 
HOUSTON (95) Oat-Campbell 11 pass from Peete '(Murray Brown 1-3 0·0 2. Totals 27·61 20-29 79. 
Johnson 8-15 1·1 17, Thorpe 4-10 2-4 10, kick), 12:17. Sunday, Dec. 16 OKLAHOMA (98)8-9 22, Blaylock 7 ·15 2-2 16, Theus 9-18 8-8 26, 
Olajuwon 7-21 4-6 18, Maxwell10-19 0-0 24, Second Quarter Atlanta at Cleveland, 1 p.m. Webster 6-10 1-1 13, Ware 1·6 0·0 2, Holmes 9·Garvin 5-9 2-2 12, Dudley 1-2 0·4 2, George 0-0 O· K.Smith 6-15 2·2 14, Feitl 1-3 2·2 4, Floyd 2-9 0·0 Det-FG Murray 47, 5:45. Houston at Kansas City, 1 p.m. 17 5·6 23, Price 7·1510-11 27, Mullins 4-15 3-6 0 0, Conner 3-4 2·3 8.Totals 44-87 33·40 121. 
4, Winchester 1·2 0-0 2, Wood 0-1 0-0 0, L.Smith LAR-Jackson 55 run (Jaeger kick), 7:21. Indianapolis at New York Jets, 1 p.m. 12, Evans 3-12 2-3 11, Keane 4-6 2-2 10, Saltier 0· Charlotte 26 28 27 34-115 
1-2 0-0 2.Totals 40-9711-15 95. Third Quarter Minnesota at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m. 1 0-0 o Totals 34-82 23-29 98. 
New Jersey 30 25 28 38-121 
Boston 32 17 29 29-1 07 LAR-Fernandez 10 pass from Schroeder Phoenix at Dallas, 1 p.m. Halftime-Oklahoma 44, Coppin St. 37. 3-point3-Point goals-Charlotte 1-6 (Newman 1-2, Curry 
Houston 24 28 27 16-95 (Jaeger kick), 6:49. Pittsburgh at New Orleans, 1 p,m. goals-Coppin St. 5·9 (Isaac 4-5, Johnson 1-2,0-1, Gill 0-1, Chapman 0·2), New Jersey 0·2 3-Point goals-Boston 2-4 (Bird 2-4), Houston 4-LAR-Brown 3 pass from Schroeder (Jaeger Seattle at Miami, 1 p.m. Mazyck 0-1, Brown 0-1), Oklahoma 7-26 (Price 3-9, (Morris 0·2). Fouled out-Newman. Rebounds­
15 (Maxwell 4-11, Floyd 0-1, Wood 0-1, K.Smith o-kick), 13:09. Green Bay at Philadelphia, 4 p.m. Evans 3-9, Mullins 1-7, Ware 0-1). Fouled out­Charlotte 42 (Reid 8), New Jersey 61 (Haley 18). 
2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Boston 68 Fourth Quarter Cincinnati at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. McCollum. Rebounds-Coppin St. 40 (Stewart 10), Assists-Charlotte 23 (Bogues 11), New Jersey 19 (Shaw 12), Houston 48 (Oiajuwon 13). Assists­Det-Peete 6 run (Murray kick), 6:24. San Diego at Denver, 4 p.m. Oklahoma 51 (Holmes 12). Assists-Coppin St. 11(Blaylock, Theus 5). Total fouls-Charlotte 31, New Boston 23 (Bird. Shaw 7), Houston 30 (K.Smith LAR-FG Jaeger 37, 13:05. Chicago at Detroit, 8 p.m. (Stewart 3), Oklahoma 22 (Evans 11 ). Total fouls­Jersey 28. Technicals-New Jersey coach Fitch 2, 
14). Total fouls-Boston 16, Houston 22. Monday, Dec. 17 Coppin St. 20. Oklahoma 23. Technicals-Yarbary.
Morris. Ejections-New Jersey coach Fitch. A­
Technicai-Oiajuwon. A-16,001. San Francisco at Los Angeles Rams, 9 p.m. Coppin St. bench. A-1 0,430.
6.012. 
•
•
•
• 
Pr-of~«for-
T. fl. ~or-r-ir 
• 

t~~tfl'au. tdj'tt-Ofh,. h,.if 
•

Phlfo«fo;her-~ 
• 
Ca.lel(rler-



2,·30-1,·00!/1( IIal1fl!(~ !llottt-e [}tVKe 8tJtJbttJtt-e 

.....~ ...................................................................................................................• 

~-­
Tuesday, December 11, 1990 
Portland is blazing in midst of a league-best 18-1 start 
~~---~----­
The Observer 


AP Photo 
Buck Williams, leading the NBA in field goal percentage, has led the 
Portland Trail Blazers to the second best start in NBA history (18-1). 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Crew members: An extremely important meeting will be held today at 7:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. Everyone must attend. Anyone who is absent please drop off 30 dollars to 359 Alumni. Checkbooks will not be required for the meeting. 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be playing walleyball at the JACC Wednesday from 5 -7 p.m. All are invited. Meet at racquetball Ct. 2. Questions? Call Mark Zoia at x1606 or Cathy Bradshaw at x4088. 
page 13 

Canes 
continued from page 16 
But the meddling of Sam .! a n k o v i c h , M i a m i ' s controversial athletic director, hasn't helped matters much. Jankovich has phoned journalists who vote in the Associated Press poll to lobby for his team, trying to move the Hurricanes up in the polls. llis latest charade is even more absurd. 
Jankovich took several companies which built Miami's practice facilities to court last week to blame them for the Hurricanes' 1988 loss Notre Dame. According to the Associated Press, Jankovich elaims that the turf installed on Miami's practice fields was so faulty that it is reasonable to assume they led to Notre Dame's victory. 
If this doesn't intimidate AP 
voters, nothing will. For all the 
voters know, Jankovich and 
Miami will sue them if they 
don't make the Hurricanes 
number one at the end of the 
season. For that matter, he 
might sue me for writing this 
column. 

Whether or not Jankovich 
had anything to do with Miami 
being ranked ahead of Notre 
Dame, the situation is 
appalling. If anybody can give 
me a single valid reason for 
putting the Hurricanes ahead 
of the Irish in the polls, I would 
love to hear it. 

If Miami and Notre Dame 
finish the same number of 
losses, the Irish should be 
ranked ahead of the Hurricanes 
in the polls on Jan. 2. But 
somehow, sadly, I get the 
feeling that due to 
circumstances beyond their 
control, the Irish prospects in 
the national title race are about 
as remote as those of 
Saskatchewan and Georgetown. 
I 
I 
l 
j 
...... 

POHTLANI>, Ore. (AP) -The signboard at a local restaurant mads, "Why not 81-1?" 
Such arn the expectations for tlw Portland Trail Blazers these days. 
"The fans in Portland, they get a little spoiled," Jerome Kersey said. "I'm sure they're real spoilnd now." 
The Blazers are 18-1, the sec­ond-bnst start in NBA history. Considering thn schedule, the lnagun's hottest tnam likely will gnt nven hotter. The all-time best start of 23-1, set by the Nnw York Knicks in 1969-70, doesn't s11em out of rnach. 
But thn Blaznrs are trying not 
. to gnt too carried away with their early-season success and thnir chance for the record. 
"It's thern," Kersey said, "but you can't worry about it until you get to thn 23rd gamn." 
Portland plays four of its next 
Congratulations 
~@~@ 
on winning the 
Lombardi Award. We wish you the very best. 
From your friends at: 
five games at home. The Blazers host Indiana on Tuesday. play at Sacramento on Thursday, then return home for games agaomst Dallas on Friday, Orlando on Sunday and Golden State next Tuesday. If the Blazers win all those, they would tie the Knicks' record. A win at Golden State a week from Thursday would break the mark. 
But the Blazers insist they are avoiding any daydreaming about what might happen. 
"We don't look ahead to the next two or three games and say 'We're gonna win these three or we can win these three,"' Kersey said. "We just look at the next game ahead, like tomorrow against Indiana." 
The Blazers admit they have exceeded their own expecta­tions. 

page 14 
Dravecky may lose arm due to recurring tumor 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) ­Former San Francisco Giants pitcher Dave Dravecky, whose career was ended in 1989 by cancer, will travel to New York for an examination Friday. 
The Los Angeles Times re­ported last week that Dravecky, 34, who overcame cancer to pitch again, may be forced to have his left arm amputated because of a recurrence of a cancerous tumor. 
San Francisco Giants President AI Rosen said Monday that Dravecky will be examined Friday by Dr. Murray Brennan at Sloan-Kettering Cancer Clinic in New York. 
Brennan operated on Dravecky in August to remove a cancerous tumor from the pitcher's left arm. Dravecky then underwent eight weeks of radiation therapy and had an MRI exam at the Cleveland Clinic last month. 
"He is not going to New York for surgery or any other proce­dure, only to see Dr. Brennan," Rosen said Monday at a news conference at which the Giants introduced free agent signees Bud Black, Dave Righetti and Willie McGee. 
"There is no procedure sched­uled. While amputation is a real possibility sometime in the future, it's not been determined yet. ... So all the stories that have been written about pend­ing amputation are erroneous and false." 
Dravecky, who lives in Youngstown, Ohio, pitched seven seasons in the majors, for the San Diego Padres and then the Giants. He first un­derwent surger)lrfor cancer in his left arm in October 1988. 
The Observer 


Another2l ~ear old at Knott Hall 
Love,Mom and Dad 

Happy Birthday JimFralei h 

PARENTS 
WITH 
DAUGHTERS IN SPORT 

DICK ROSENTHAL:  ATHLETIC DIRECTOR  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  
PAT UTZ:  DIRECTOR  
UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER  
RICH O'LEARY:  ASSISTANT DIRECTOR  
NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS  

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1990 7:00PM 
JOYCE ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER ENTER GATES 1 & 2 FREE OF CHARGE 
SPONSORED BY THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME YEAR OF WOMEN AND THE DEPARTMENT OF NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 
5:()()..7:1 MEMPHIS IELLE (PG13) 4:45-7:()()..9: 15 QUIGLEY DOWN UNDER 
4:45-7:()()..9:30 

Tuesday, December 11. 1990 
Noll gets 200th win, joins elite NFL group 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -His play­ers were talking about No. 200 and Pittsburgh Steelers presi­dent Dan Rooney was talking about No. 300, but coach Chuck Noll wanted to talk only about No. 201. 
Noll, the only coach to win four Super Bowls, joined the NFL's most exclusive coaching fraternity, the 200-victory club, as the Steelers beat the New England Patriots 24-7 Sunday. 
Make that 200 and counting. 
Noll joins the elite of the elite of NFL coaching -George Halas, Don Shula, Tom Landry and Curly Lambeau -in the 200 club, and Rooney thinks 300 victories is very possible for only the second man in NFL history to coach the same team in four decades. 
"It's a tremendous accom­plishment when you consider the great people who have made it," Rooney said of Noll, who was hired by the Steelers 
in 1969. "Being with Chuck for 21 years makes me very proud. "I think he will make it (300 victories)." 
The Steelers would have to av­erage 10 victories a season un­til 2000-when Noll would be 68 -for Noll to reach 300. Halas (325) is currently the only coach in NFL history that many victories, but Shula will join him with five more regular­season victories. 
"It's exciting," running back Tim Worley said of No. 200. "He's fifth now. We're going to try to get him to the top ... make him No. 1. How long~s he got to go?" 
A while. At 10 victories a year, 
Noll would have to coach until· 
he's 71, or the year 2003. He' 
have a jump on 325 if his 1 
postseason victories and 6 
preseason victories were fig­
ured in, prompting him to say, 
"It seems like more than 200." 
Noll had little more to sa 

about the biggest milestone o 
his coaching career. 
Applications to Notre Dame Foreign Study Programs in 
JJLngers, :France 
Nagoya, Japan 
2BUCK 
TIJESDAY 
5 p.m. to 12:~!> Any 7" Sandwich 
$2.00 
(2 or more for delivery) 

113 DIXIE' WAY IIOIITH 

Innsbruck, Austria Toledo, Spain 
Mexico City, Mexico 
ARE NOW DUE! 
Make sure yours is complete before you leave for Christmas vacalion! 
For additional Information contact: Foreign Study Program• 420 Administration Building 


Tuesday, December 11, 1990 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE 'CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
.. 
ACROSS 28 Dawdles 59 Alley Oop's love 31 Prayer finale 
1 Bloody­60 Alternative word 

Tuesday 32 Yarn spinner 
(cocktail) 
61 Beatles' "And 
34 Letter after 
s Metalworker -Her" " 

4:30 p.m. Biological Science Leeture: "Malaria Merozite sigma
10 Carry's partner 

Receptors for Hed Blood Cells," Dr. John Adams, National 37 Jelly Roll 62 Prepare
14 Theater award 
Morton presents

Institute of Health. Hoom 430, Galvin Auditorium. 
15 Flick composition 
63 Got ready to 
16 Outermost of 40 Superlative 
drive

7 p.m. Women Gathering, Wilson Commons Lounge. For 
the Aleutians , ending

more details, call Ann Seckinger at 232-9750 or Michele 64 Not now
17 "Crimes and 41 Japan, China Prah at 239-5368. Misdemeanors" etc. 65 Bird of the 50th actor 42 A group of state 18Weardown troops 19 Meander 43 Ceremonial acts 
DOWN

MENUS 20 Tune originally 44 Belief titled "Skoda 45 Colo. ski resort 1 City in Utah Lasky" 48 Continue 2-Skilled
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
23 Successor to so Song featured 3 Take the train Claudius I in "The New 

Breaded Veal Steak 4 Yen
Oven Frind Chicken 24 Actress Barkin Moon"
Chicken and Bean Tostada s Sully
Make Your Own Burrito Bar 57 Get fresh 
25 Lincoln

Pasta Vegetable Bake 6Havana's-
Garden Veg Quiche homestead sa Imam's deity Baked Chicken with Herbs 
Deli Bar Castle 7 Songwriter Novello 1
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Ocean motion 9 Loaf end 10 Sings "Silent Night" 

29 Pizza place again 51 Stones from the 11 Lagoon locale 44 Cedar Rapids sky
30 Minxlike 12 Dracula's university 52 First name in
32 Fermentable
undoing 45 Balance-sheet scat
liquid 
~-'-'~~""+'~,... 1-'-+~~'+=--f-1~--:-+.,..-i 13 Earthling 33 Where Perry item 53 Considerably 
B~~iir::+:,:BB:"=: li-.BI-:-t~:-i 21 One of the triumphed 
460ld hat 54 Twist's request Cartwrights 47 Oater bunch 
34 Variation in 55 Zest color 46 Somber 56 Scruff 25 Soap unit 35Among 26 Author Kingsley 36 Until 
Answers to any three clues in this 38 North or south, puzzle are available by touch-tone 27 Reached for the e.g. phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each floor 39 Reject minute). 
' 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARYLARSON SPELUNKER 
JAY HOSLER 


l'IJt. GOT A GOOD 1-\0M£. 
IT MU5T S£ S,.__D B£1NG 
M~O A &.ST fR\B~O. Wilt-.\ 
A SPEC.I£:.5 't-1\n\ SO 
LITTLE IMAG\N/1.T\ON.
Moll£ COIJLO AT\G£R Wt>.NT? 

.. 
~~·IJ c 1990 Unwersal Press Syod!Cale 
Professor Harold Rosenbloom's diagram of the middle ear, proposing his newly discovered fourth bone. 
.. 

Give your parents and friends the real scoop on college life 

Send them a subscrption to The· Observer-
And have the latest news and sports from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's delivered to your home for $25 a semester. Send to: 
Name 

The Observer 
Address

P.O.Box Q 
City State Zip
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.-. 
Sports 

Tuesday, December 11, 1990
oaae 16 
Hurricanes should not be ranked ahead of Irish 
My friend Mike, like most other Notre Dame students. is a college football guru. He thinks he finally has the National Championship picture figured out. 
"You know, this has been a strange season," he told me Sunday at brunch. "The favorite right now has to be Hawaii, because the Rainbows beat Brigham Young, which beat Miami, which beat-" 
"-Oh, no. not another one of those argllments," I replied. "I hate those things. Now who do you really think is going to be number one on January 2'?" 
"Well. you might not realize it at first, but the Saskatchewan Houghriders have an exeellent chance. even though they didn't win the Grey Cup. Now I know they have two things going against them. First of all, they are ineligible because they are not a collegiate t!~am. Seeondly, they are based in Canada, which automatically excludes them from consideration. But like I said. this has been a strange season, so anything can happen." 
How about a dark horse? 

Ken Tysiac 
World of Sports 

"You just can't say enough about that Georgeto,wn basketball team. Now the Hoyas don't have a football team, so it's only logical that if thflir basketball team is good enough, they should be in the running. Besides, think of how many field goals Dikembe Mutombo and Alonzo Mourning would block over the course of a 12-game football season." 
I had to put an end to this nonsense. Obviously Saskatchewan and Georgetown are not serious title threats. Mike broke down when I confronted him with the fact that somebody else was bound to win the National Championship. 
"Okay, you're right," he said. ''I'm sorry, but I just can't deal 

" 
The Observer/Pat Kusek 

The Hurricanes are ranked ahead of the Irish even though they have played an easier schedule. 
with the thought that Miami  Mike had made his point.  and Notre. Damn both had  
might win the title for the third  After  Notre  Dame  beats  two losses. But the )rish  
time in four years."  Colorado in the Orange Bowl  played  a  rnueh  tougher  
At the mention of the word  and Nebraska trashes Georgia  schedule  and  beat  the  
"Miami" black clouds rolled in  Tech in the Citrus Bowl. the  llurrieanes 29-20 on  Oet.  
from the south. A lone buzzard  Hurricanes will only have to  20. AecordiJ1g to last year's  
(or was that an ibis?) circled  defeat Texas in the Cotton Bowl  logic, Notre Dame should bt•  
menacingly in the sky  over  to recfaim the top spot.  . ahead of Miami in the polls.  
North Dining Hall.  The last time I looked. Miami  see CANES I page 13  

Texas football player found with steriod­masking chemical; NCAA drops charges , 

AUSTIN, Texas (API -A able b,y prescription and has no 
chemical found in the posses­sion of a University of Texas football player in October is often used to mask the results of steroid tests, doctors and NCAA officials say. 
The chemical, epitestosterone, made by the Sigma Chemical Company, is reportedly finding its way into locker rooms whflre some athlfltes use it to beat steroid deteetion tests. 
Alan Luther, a reserve lineman for the Longhorns, was charged with possession of a controllfld substance after po­lice found a small vial labeled "epitestosterone" in his ear, the Austin American-Statesman reportnd Sunday. 
Charges against Luther were dropped after tests affirmed that the chemical was 
,. epitnstosterone rather than testosterone, which is illegal. Luther said he used epitestos­terone to treat his inflamed shoulder. Epitestosterone is not avail-
Sherrill in 
STARKVILLE. Miss. (AP) ­Jackie Sherrill, who left Texas A&M two years ago with the Aggies on NCAA probation, returned to college football when he was named Sunday as coach at Mississippi State. 
Sherrill. who spent two years in private business after leaving Texas A&M, replaces Hockey Felker, who resigned under pressure two weeks ago after a 5-6 season, the Bulldogs' fourth straight losing campaign. 
The NCAA eventually 
medical use, said Dr. William Taylor, a specialist in anabolic steroids. But the drug can be used by athletes to increase the level of the hormone testos­terone, a practice banned in all sports. 
"If an athlete has 24 hours notice, he can beat the drug test every time by using epitestosterone," Taylor, a spokesman for the College of Ameriean Sports Medicine, said. 
Taylor said athletes can inject the chemical an hour prior to a drug test and still pass the test. 
"Athletes are very savvy, and this is just another example of it," said Frank Uryasz. NCAA director of sports sciences. "We're always faced with the problem that athletes know what to use and when to use it." 
Luther sajd he was, using the epitestosterone for pain and in­flammation following shoulder surgery two years ago. 
at Miss. St. 
cleared Texas A&M of allegations that former player George Smith received "hush" money, saying it coul-d not distinguish fact from fiction. Smith had said Sherrill, then coach and athletic director. paid him for his silence about NCAA rules violations and that a university official later offere.d $30,000 to recant his charges. 
The NCAA said Sherrill was never implicated in any wrongdoing. But he resigned in December 1988, following an internal investigation by the school. 
"I was told to rub it on my  
shoulder," Luther said. "That's  
what the doctor told me to do.  
It was given to me by a doctor  
in Houston."  
Luther declined to  name the  
doctor.  
"We knew it was not a steroid,  
that it wasn't anything," said  
David  Minton,  Luther's  
attorney. epitestosterone  "It was ... It was very  r·  
clear what it was. He was tak­ 
ing it under the advice of a  
physician in Houston."  
But several experts say the  
drug is useless in reducing  
shoulder pain and inflamma­ •  
tion.  
Don Leggett, a compliance of­ 
ficer with the U.S. Food and  
Drug  Administration  in  
Washington, said the chemical's  
only  use  is  to  camouflage  
steroid use.  
"All I can say is epitestos­terone has not been approved by the FDA as safe and effective for drug use in this country,,;  A University  of  Texas  • reserve  football  player  had  AP Photo charges of  

possessing a steroid masking substance dropped. Leggett said. 
Douglas waiting for next bout 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) ­Former heavyweight champion James "Buster" Douglas isn't too attentive to boxing these days. 
Douglas said he turned .on his television Saturday night to watch the Mike Tyson-Alex Stewar't bout. He didn't see Stewart get knocked out in the first round. 
"I fell asleep. And right after I did, he did," Douglas said with a laugh. 
On Feb. 10, Douglas stunned the boxing world with a 10th­round knockout of the previ­ously unbeaten Tyson. Then, on Oct. 25, Douglas was knocked out in the third round by Evander Holyfield. 

Now, he said he spends his days setting up a charitable foundation in memory of his mother Lula, who died of a stroke just before Douglas left to light Tyson in Tokyo. 
He also goes to Lamaze classes with his wife Bertha to prepare for the birth of his second child, expected in mid­January. 
And he is trying to clear his · name in boxing cirdes with his next light. "I consider myself still a 
fighter," Douglas said Monday in a telephone il\terview. "At this point, though, I don't know what's on the horizon. It's just a thing where after the first of the year I'll start training again because I enjoy fighting. It's something I can still do and do well. Beeause what they saw Oct. 25 wasn't the best James Douglas can offer, that's for sure." 
Douglas, 30, trained fitfully during a legal wrangle with promoter Don King ali last spring and summer, shortening his normal training schedule . 
• 






