; ' (....
'-(J ~ 
.-'I ­

VOL. XXIII NO. 19 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 i 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


AP Photo 
Prayer time 
A Saudi soldier kneels in prayer next to a Kuwaiti tank Tuesday in the desert near the border with Iraq and Kuwait. The area near Ha­far ai-Batin is being defended by forces from Egypt, Syria and Kuwait, as well as the Saudi Arabian military. 

Counseling center offers supporting programs 
By MONICA YANT 
Associate News Editor 
At University Counseling Center, Rita Donley refers to her clients as survivors, not victims, of rape. 
'They were victimized, but they survived," the staff psy­chologist said, "and they can go on." 
Donley, who counsels rape survivors as well as friends and others concerned about someone who has been raped, noted that most people who attend programs about rape or sexual assault are those who "already know something about it." 
• Related Stories/ page 5 
A major part of rape prevention is, she believes, "convincing people it can happen to them." 
Because people are more more comfortable thinking they could be in a supporting role, said Donley, Campus Alliance for Rape Education (C.A.R.E.) geared its rape prevention brochure toward how to support a rape victim. To this psy­chologist, education in any format is better than none at all. "The less you know, the less safe you are." 
Safety is a major concern of Donley's. No female is totally safe, she said. But with information and education, "you will be safer." 

CAMPUS 


RAPE 

The females Donley counsels were not so safe. Although she does help clients who have been raped by an unknown attacker, the majority are survivors of acquaintance rape. 
The first thing Donley stresses in counseling is confidentiality, making it clear to the survivor that telling her story will not result in the counselor reporting it, or forcing her to file charges. Although concerned with the Sw:Yivor's health, Donley will suggest, but not require, the female get a physical exam. 
Telling her story is a vital part of the survivor's therapy. While the survivor explains what happened, Donley says she "is looking for as many op­portunities to validate. that it wasn't her fault...even if she was drunk. even if she was out by herself ... " 
At some point, the survivor needs to understand "that this person who raped her, he and he alone, is responsible for his own behavior." 
Donley said that survivors often blame themselves for what happened because it is a way for them to stay in control of the situation. "If you believe 
see RAPE/ page 7 

Ferraro delivers address at ND 
Young women encouraged to run for office 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
Three-time Congresswoman and former vice-presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro draws from personal experi­ence when advising young women: "If you don't run, you can't win." 
Six years after losing the bid to become the first woman vice president, Ferraro spoke at Notre Dame yesterday on the topic of women and politics. Her lecture was the first in the Student Government's Public Forum on Contemporary issues. 
Although she said she was pleased about the number of women running for state and national offices across the United States, she said that women must be encouraged to take more chances. 
The number of women in the directory of Congress shows that "we're doing better," said Ferraro. She is discouraged, however, by a figure that states that at the current rate in 40 years there will only be 53 women in Congress. "That isn't good enough." 
"We need to persuade more women to run," she said. In ad­dition, she said women need to be convinced that politics is an honorable profession. 
"Every time a woman runs for an elected office it's like 
PeHed with rocks 

• Press Conference/ page 3 
throwing a stone into a lake. The ripples spread far beyond the immediate point of im­pact...When a woman finally does run for that office (the president) the ripple effect will create a wave of change that can be felt everywhere." said Ferraro. 
Ferraro said she did not know whether the U.S. would see a woman president in the next century. "It will happen, in time. I'm sure of it. But I'm also sure that it's not just a matter of time. It's a matter of work, faith and confidence, and the commitment to the idea that some leaders are born women." 
A woman president will not be elected primarily because she is a woman or in spite of the fact that she is a woman, but because she has proven herself as a senator or a gov­ernor, said Ferraro. "She will show that she has the rare combination of qualities the American people look for in a president. And then it will be time. History will be made." 
When considering a presiden­tial candidate, Ferraro said that the individual has usually held the office of governor, vice president or a seat in the U.S. Senate. She said that right now very few women hold those requisite positions. "We must 

A Mohawk fights with a soldier from the Canadian army on the Kahnawake Reservation near Montreal Tuesday. The police broke up the fighting by firing their weapons into the air. 
Conference will focus on campus racism 
put ourselves in that position to 
make the run if we chose," she 
said. 
When asked if about her 
family, Ferraro said that 
although she loves her political 
life, she loves her children 
more. She explained that the 
1984 election did have a 
marked effect on her family. 
The campaign was both a positive and negative experi­ence for her children, said Fer­raro. She described the months of campaigning and delivering speeches as an "incredible ex­perience" for her children. 
Vast amounts of publicity proved trying for her family. When her son John was ar­rested on drug charges, the in­cident made national and inter­national news. 
"He committed a crime, he has been punished and he de­served to be punished," said Ferraro. However, she said she believes he was treated more harshly because he was the son of a prominent figure. 
Her son is now in law school and owns his own business. "I'm not glad it happened ... but he has grown." 
Ferraro served as Democratic congresswoman to represent New York's 9th congressional district for three terms, from 1979 to 1985. While in 
see FERRARO I page 4 
AP Photo 


By DAVID ZIRINGER 
News Writer 

In an attempt to chip away at campus racism, the University announced that it will present a faculty conference on "Implementing Cultural Diversity in the Curriculum." next summer. 
The goal of the conference is to encourage and aid faculty members to incorporate minor­ity issues and literature into their courses. Organizers said that offering students greater exposure to minority literature will heighten cultural aware­ness on campus and should give students a more balanced per­spective in their studies. 
"The best way to break down prejudice is through what goes on in the intellectual lives of our students," according to Father Oliver Williams, associ­ate provost, who submitted the grant application for the con­ference in April. 
The conference will focus on the curriculum of the Freshmen Writing and Seminar Program and the College of Arts and Letters Sophomore Core Course. Thus, all freshmen and most sophomores will be af­fected by curriculum changes. 
However, Erskine Peters, conference director and profes­sor of English, hopes "that people from all parts of the University will have interest ­that we at least have some rep­resentation" from all the disci­plines. 
The conference hopes to at­tract at least fifty faculty mem­bers, who will be paid a stipend of approximately $1,000 each, according to the proposal bud­get. 
During the conference, speakers will provide an overview of racism and will of­fer suggestions as to how fac­ulty can revise their syllabi. Smaller group discussions in the afternoon will "help (the teachers) understand the litera­ture," Williams said. 
However, "We want more than talk," according to Peters. He said teachers will be asked 
see RACISM I page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
•


Where IS the Notre Dame Family 
now? 
Now that all those -------­idiots have stopped asking you how your summer was, let me tell you about some­one else's summer. Actually. let me tell you a story... 
Once upon a time Flo Hoelker there was a cold, un-Associate caring, conglomerate News Editor 
under the guise of a --------­national Catholic university. This conglom­erate held many assets, including vast amounts of land, a football team with a television contract, and various investments in South Africa. 
It could also somehow persuade very rich men to donate portions of their fortunes to its own treasuries. In fact, the conglomerate was so wealthy that some of its buildings were covered with gold! 
One day the conglomerate hired an aged man to work in its library. On the man's first day of work, while on a tour of the li­brary and before he had clocked in or signed any legally binding forms, he had a heart attack. Sadly, despite that he was rushed to the hospital. the aged man died several days later. 
Luckily for the conglomerate, though, the aged man was never an official conglomer­ate employee. He was only going to work part time, anyway. And besides, it figured, he had Medicare, so why should it help pay for anything like hospital costs, even though it is so rich it can afford to re-landscape every acre it owns, then cover it with cement sidewalks and new parking lots. 
Never mind that, under its guise of a Catholic university and through its public relations spokesmen, the conglomerate says that its other employees and its stockhold­ers should practice Christian love, and re­sponsibility for one another. 
Never mind that, while the conglomerate spends millions of dollars on its own lavish beautification and glorification, it spends paltry sums in comparison for its social concerns programs. 
Never mind that the aged man was stricken on the conglomerate's property, having come there for a job. 
But why, you ask, should the conglomer­ate care about this man who nearly died on its property? Should it have to care for him? Does the conglomerate take responsi­bility for any of its employees who become ill, or die? Why bring it all up? 
Because the conglomerate is our univer­sity. It is Notre Dame in its finest light, making sure to mention that the man never "punched in, completed tax forms, or be­came an official employee in any way." Preaching responsibility for others, yet seemingly doing otherwise. 
Saying one thing, doing another. On the surface, one thing, but underneath, maybe another. So take a look around you, a close one. What is this thing around us? A Catholic university? A shining example to its students of its professed belit>fs? A busi­ness? What? Tell me what you see. 

Ihe Obset:Ver_. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 Today's Staff: 
News Systems PeteYob Mark Sloan 
Sports
Frank Rivera Kevin Blot 
Frank Pastor 
Accent Scoreboard Buslnass Shonda Wilson Ken Tysiac Christine Walsh Cristina Ortiz Alicia Reale Jannelle Harrigan Production Maureen Gallagher Kelly Lynch Ad Design Cheryl Moser Graphics 
Kerry Clair  Bradford Boehm  
Maria Blohm Tony Paganelli Amy Eckert CaraEckman  VIewpoint Julie Shepherd Kathy Welsh  Circulation Chris Hanely Lu Medeiros  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Frrday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
The Observer Thursday, September 20, 1990 
WEATHER Forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 20. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
FRONTS: 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © ~ ~ rn 0 0 X 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Junior Class picnic will be held today. There will be hamburgers and hot dogs served. Pick up your free tick­ets from your dorm representative and head out to North Quad from 5-7 p.m. 
NO Security/Police Department is holding a public auction today at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. Property to be auctioned includes bicycles, watches and other mis­cellaneous items that have been lost or abandoned on campus. 
Accountancy and Finance students interested in discovering career opportunities with The Clorox Com­pany are invited and encouraged to attend a presenta­tion/reception at 6 p.m. in the Alumni Room, Morris Inn. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
CAPP, MIS, MCC and Computer Engineering stu­dents interested in discovering career opportunities with Price Waterhouse Consulting, 6 pm. Alumni Senior Club. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
WORLD 
Former President Ronald Reagan on Wednesday discussed changes in the Soviet Union and the Persian Gulf with Italian President Francesco Cossiga. Cossiga's spokesman, Ludovico Ortona, said Reagan received a "very friendly, very warm" greeting from Cossiga. "It was a very 

useful and important occasion for both to exchange views and ideas on the changes in Europe, the changes in the Soviet Union," Ortona said. Reagan is at the end of a trip that included several days in the Soviet Union. Ortona said Reagan had been "very impressed by the greater liberty that he found in the (Soviet Union), and the growing commitment to a free market." 
CAMPUS MARKET UPDATE 
The Hall Presidents' Council discussed the upcoming Charity picnic in Tuesday's meeting. The smorgasbord will feature food from Domino's Pizza, Wendy's, Gino's Pizza, Frank's Red Hots, Vic's subs and Coca-Cola, said HPC Co-Chair Colleen Hogan. The picnic will be held Sept. 28 from 4 to 7 p.m. on Holy Cross Field. All proceeds will benefit the Women's Care Center and Zhengde Wang, a Notre Dame 
NYSE Index
graduate student who was injured in a hit and 
371.68 -tJ-0.53 
run accident last October. 
S&P Composite A 316.60 VI' 2.00 Dow Jones Industrials 2,557.43 ..{} 13.86
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
Precious Metals Gold ~ $1.60 to $ 386/oz. 
~ Support the 
'li-'~~t~n~lQJ!!l~ 
Silver {} 2.4~ to $ 4.769/oz. 

Chemistry, ChEg., Accountancy, ME students interested in discovering career opportunities with ICI Americas can attend a presentation at 7 p.m., 214 Cush­ing Hall of Engineering. Sponsored by Career and Place­ment Services. 
Finance, Management, Marketing, Economics. and MBA students interested in discovering career oppor­tunities with Conoco, Inc. can attend a presentation at 7 
p.m. in the Upper Lounge, University Club. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
Accountancy and Finance students interested in discovering career opportunities with General Mills can attend a presentation at 8 p.m.. Notre Dame Room, Mor­ris Inn. sponsored by Career and Placement Services 
Math Club organizational meeting will take place Tuesday, September 25, at 7 p.m., 188 Nieuwland Science Hall. Direct questions to Tim at 283-1421 or Don at 283-1509. 
Authorities in a southern Chinese city executed 65 criminals, including murderers, rapists, smugglers and "hooligans" in one of China's largest mass executions, an official report said. The executions on Tuesday in Guangzhou, or Canton, comprised the largest such occurrence since a nationwide campaign against crime began in China a year ago. They followed the executions of nine people in Shanghai for murder, theft and pimping last week. According to a report in Tuesday's editions of the Yancheng Evening News, published in Guangzhou, 65 "criminals" were executed in 12 areas of the city. The crimes included murder, rape, gun smuggling, hooliganism and "major crimes," which often means theft, extortion or burglary. 
ALMANAC 
On September 20th: 
eln 1519: Portuguese navigator Ferdinand Magellan set out from Spain on a voyage to find a western passage to the Indies. Magellan was killed en­route, but one of his ships eventually circled the globe. 
eln 1958: Civil rights leader Martin Luther King Junior was seri­ously wounded at a New York City de­partment store when an apparently deranged black woman stabbed him in the chest. 
eln 1976: "Playboy" magazine released an interview in which Democratic presidential nominee Jimmy Carter admitted he'd "looked on a lot of women with lust." 
eln 1984: A suicide car bomber attacked the U.S. Embassy annex in north Beirut. killing a dozen people. 

----------------~------------~-------------------------------------------------------------­
-
Thursday, September 20, 1990 

Ferraro delivers press conference on deficit 
By MONICA YANT Associate News Editor 
The present policies of the Republican Party may be just what it takes to put a Demo­crat in the White House, ac­cording to Geraldine Ferraro. 
"I could be facetious and say that the Republican Party is doing it nicely for us." Ferraro said of Republican budget, envi­ronmental and education poli­cies which she feels are putting the nation deeper in debt. 
People need to look at a "deficit that is out of control" at $3.4 trillion as a result of the Republican's spending record, a record heavy with de­fense spending, according thf' 1984 Democratic vice-presiden­tial candidate. 
"We have to do something about reducing the increases in defense spending that we're passing. year after year," she said at a press conference yes­terday. 
Cuts in social programs and taxes. which led to less revenue for the government, and in­creases in defense spending by the 1980 administration made the budget numbers escalate to the point where it would take a "magician" to avoid a deficit, she said. 
The former Congresswoman criticized capital gains tax cuts. and praised the government's 
A Touch a life. Give to the United Way. 
~ 
efforts to provide aid to first­time home-owners. She said that lending the buyers' money, "addresses the problem of the homeless at one end, and on the other end it addresses the problems of middle class Americans who cannot buy homes." 
Although Ferraro no longer holds public office, she is still active in the political arena. However, the New York Demo­crat said she has no aspirations for a spot in the Oval Office. Senators or Governors are "the universe from which candidates are usually chosen," she said. 
Ferraro mentioned New York Governor Mario Cuomo as a possible candidate for 1992. "I think he could point out to the American people exactly where the untruths have been," she said. 
She also speculated that Sen­ators Bruce Babbitt, Bill Bradley and Sam Nunn could consider running in '92. 
Ferraro said that the timing was the key factor of her defeat of her ticket with Walter Moo­dale in 1984. "Ronald Reagan won in 1984 because he was an incumbent president who had succeeded in getting inflation down. interest rates down ... people liked him." 
"It was a bad time," she said, "this time is different." 
CULTURAL CALENDAR 
1990•1991 
SAINT MARY·s COLLEGE 

THURSDAY, SEPT. 27,8 P.M. 

CAMELOT 
National touring production with live orchestra $18/$16• FREE TO SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS 
SUNDAY, SEPT. 30, 2:30P.M. 
A Department of Music Faculty Recital Moreau Hall Little Theatre• Admission Free 

ONE SHOW ONLY! WEDNESDAY, OCT. 3 BALLET THEATRE PENNSYLVANIA 

DRACULA 
$16/$14 

Ticket discounts for both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. All performances in O'Laughlin Auditorium unless noted. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, in O'Laughlin, Mon.-Fri., 10-4. Visa/MasterCard: 284-4626. For updated program information, call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline: 67 4-0900, category 17 40. 
----t%1·--­Saint Marys Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME· I NOlANA 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Tying into awareness 
Molly Walsh, a Saint Mary's sophomore, participates in the tying of yellow ribbons at Haggar College Center as part of Middle East Awareness Week currently being observed at Saint Mary's. 
Latin Amer. women's issues discussed 

By Cathy Flynn News Writer 
Women of Latin America share a common heritage of Patrismus, despite other differ­ences, said Professor Sylvia Anadon, Spanish professor. 
"When we speak of women, we speak of a minority," Anadon said. "We know, how­ever, that 51% of the world's population are women." 
Anad6n spoke at a lecture on SpanisM.atin American women yesterday. Professors of Spanish. Encarnacion Juarez. of Saint Mary's, and Maria Rosa Olivera-Williams also shared their experiences. 
"Machismus is still very alive," said Anad6n. "Laws need to be changed." 
If a woman is caught com­mitting adultery in Chile. the husband has the right to take her children away. It is not as easy for her to take him to court. said Anadon. 
Want ads for jobs in the sec­retarial area, for example, 
rsdGY==~ 

The Sun Messengers 
1 0 Piece R & B/Reggae from Detroit, Michigan 
1/2 Price Cover with College ID Wednesday -Saturday 
Concert Hotline 256-0710 
Students Preparing for the LSAT! 
A Mock LSAT will be given for Pre-Law Society members on Saturday Sept. 22, at 8 am in the Cushing Auditorium. 
ALL ARE ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND. 
Maria Rosa Ollvera-Willlams 
often specify the applicant must be young and pretty, Anadon said. "Women are often sexu­ally harassed by their bosses and it is hard for them to prove that. So, many times she has to accept the situation or leave." 
Traditionally, women of the northern part of Chile have worked alongside the men for better labor conditions, said Anadon. In this area, there­fore, there is a certain equality for women and they can attend the University. 
"Education is so important." 

Anadon said. "It can teach people to realize the equality of the sexes." 
It was at the University that Juarez said that she discovered her freedom. She grew up un­der the Franco regime in Spain. 
"Franco and my father ruled my life," she said. "As a girl, I did not know anything else." 
At the public grammar school, children learned the conservative ideals of the Franco regime and the Roman Catholic Church, the only reli­gion in Spain, said Juarez. At home, she helped her mother take care of the new baby, and there were always new babies. she said. 
"When I got older, I asked my father why he didn't pay me for working in the house." Juarez said. "He got very angry and slapped me. I remember that." 
Changes are occurring in Spain at a rapid pace today. said Juarez. However. a woman still can't sell her prop­erty without her husband's consent. 
"I am still learning to be in­
dependent," Juarez said. 
"Women have to learn to be in­
dependent from inside." 
Independence would seem to 
come easily to the women of 
Uruguay. Olivera-Williams 
said. They have had laws of 
equality since the early 1800s. 
"Ironically. these laws bound 
women even more to the status 
quo," Olivera-Williams said. 
"Because we didn't have to 
fight for these rights, we 
weren't aware of ourselves as a 
group." 
Although the rights existed 
for women to participate 
equally in education and the 
state. women were criticized 
for using them. she said. It is 
only recently that things have 
begun to change for the better, 
she said. 
"Here you have a lot of op­
portunities," Olivera-Williams 
said. "However, I am surprised 
that although most of my stu­
dents are women. most of my 
colleagues ,are men." 

-----------------------~--------------------~------------------------~................ . 
r 
! 

Silber victorious AP Photo John Silber waves to supporters at a Boston hotel Tuesday night after winning the Democratic nomination for the governor of Mas­sachusetts. 

Exhibit to run at Snite 
Special to The Observer 
"Mexico Nueve" (Mexico Nine), an exhibit of the paint­ings and lithographs by nine Mexican artists, will run from Sep. 23 to Oct. 28 at the Snite Museum of Art. 
The core of the 45-piece ex­hibit is a suite of 18 lithographs printed at Tamarind Institute in Albuquerque, N.M., between 1984 and 1986. The artists and master printers of Tamarind were brought together through a binational cooperative effort funded by the Rockefeller Foundation with the support of Mexican authorities. 
According to Marjorie Devon, curator of the exhibit, there is a 
MONDAY, SEPT.17 
8:10 a.m. An off-campus resident re­
orted the loss of his wallet in the C1 arking lot prior to the football game on 
. 15. 2 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported he theft of his football tickets from a desk in is room. 
4:15 p.m. A Siegfried Hall resident re­rted the theft of her bookbag, containing oks, glasses and a calculator, from the 
obby of the Hammes Bookstore. 
4:25 p.m. An off-campus student reported theft of his duffel bag from the 
acquetball courts at the Joyce ACC. ecurity recovered the duffel bag, but a allet and watch were missing. 
6:45 
p.m. An Indiana resident reported andalism to her automobile sustained on 

t. 
15 in Red Field. 


9:56 p.m. A University Village resident eported the theft of his bike from outside he Computer Center and Mathematics 
uilding. 


Ferraro 
continued from page 1 
Congress, she served on several committees, including the bud­get committee. 
As a member of the executive board of the Congressional caucus for women's issues in the House of Representatives, Ferraro spearheaded efforts to achieve passage of the Women's Economic Equity Act and the Equal Rights Amendment. She authored sections of the Economic Equity Act and the Equal Rights Amendment. She authored sections of the Equity Act dealing with private pension reform that are now law. 
She continues to be active in the political arena through her political action committee, lack of awareness about art south of the border. Though many are familiar with the po­litical murals of Diego Rivera and Jose Clemente Orozco, few are aware of the work currently produced in Mexico. 
Included in "Mexico Nueve" are works of Olga Costa, Jose Cuevas, Gunther Gerzso, Roger von Gunten, Vincent Rojo, Luis Lopez Loza, Alfredo Castaneda, Alberto Castre Lenero and Gabriel Macotela. 
The exhibit is part of a na­tional tour organized by Tamarind Institute in conjunc­tion with Smith Kramer Inc. of Kansas City. 
TUESDAY, SEPT.18 

1:08 p.m. An off-campus resident re ported seeing a suspicious person, carryin several cameras and a bookbag acros green field, on Sept. 15. 
1:33 p.m. A Carroll Hall resident report his wallet missing since some time afte Sept. 15. 
2:30 p.m. A University employee report an attempted burglary at the sound room i the JACC. 
4:42 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident re ported the loss of his checkbook some where between Cushing Hall Engineering, the Bookstore and Hesburg Library. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT.19 
11:10 a.m. A faculty member reported th theft of his license plate from his automobil sometime during the day on Sept. 14. 
Americans Concerned for To­morrow. In 1986, ACT-PAC was instrumental in helping regain Democratic control of the U.S. Senate. In 1988, ACT-PAC helped elect two new senators and three congresswomen. 
Her first book "Ferraro: My Story" was published in 1985, and she is now writing a book that deals with the tensions be­tween the rights of the media under the First Amendment versus the rights of an individ­ual to privacy under the Sixth Amendment. 
Born in 1935 in Newburgh, N.Y., she was graduated from Marymount Manhattan in 1956. In 1960, she obtained a law de· gree from Fordham University School of Law. Between 1961 and 197 4 she maintained a pri­vate law practice and went on to serve as an assistant district attorney in Queens county. 
The Observer 

ND to hold African-Amer. conference 
By NATASHA WILSON 
News Writer 

The Notre Dame Office of Mi­nority Student Affairs will host a conference on African-Ameri­can culture this weekend at Stepan Center. 
The conference·, held Friday and Saturday, will include pre­sentations by four prominent scholars on African-American culture, said Kenneth Durgans, the office's director. 
Durgans said the conference is modeled on the annual think tank of the University of Cincinnati. Eric Abercrumbie, director of the office of minority affairs at the University of Cincinnati, organized the con­ference 10 years ago. The next think tank on that campus will be in January. 
Durgans said he has been planning the conference for three years. 
"The timing had to be right. The Notre Dame black com­munity had to develop a basis for understanding the complex topics discussed at the think tank." 
He said his office has tried to prepare the students by provid­ing background information through lecture series and reading groups. Durgans took a group of University students to the University of Cincinnati think tank a couple of years ago. 
"The Notre Dame students are now ready for such a con­ference," he said. "Unity in the African-American community is higher than it has been since I've been here," said Durgans. "People are taking a great deal of pride and have been reading extensively" about African­American culture. 
Durgans said it is a coinci­dence that the conference fol­lows Africa Week on campus. He said he chose to hold the conference in September to "kick off the school year by bringing the (Notre Dame) African-American community in closer contact with the Curriculum adjustments will


Racism 

hopefully lead to student atti­tude adjustments. "Part of the
continued from page 1 

aim of this program," Williams before the conference to submit said, "is to help white peopleoutlines of their courses and understand that minorities 
then, after the conference, ten­have done some importanttative revised outlines incorpo­things in the intellectual life of rating new ideas. They will then America." 
have the summer "to reflect on what they've proposed for The conference will be video­changes," said Peters. taped for future reference. 
MICHIGAN STATE TICKET LOTTERY· WINNERS: 
333451 333220 333251 332303 3333~0 332755 333455 3:S3649333044 333369 

333482 3332/l3 332719 332403
3335:40 333206
333393 332185 
3335$12

3336~8 332870 332574 332937 3328,64
332902 332523 

3329l-7 
3329~4 333132 332829 333582 333252
333081 333562 

333548 3328 2 332808
3332b4 332278 3325'50333576 333267 
333159 3333q3 333195 333650
3324,50 332649
333387 333255 

332861 3329~3 332710 332707 3335'61 3335i12
333731 333145 333254 333207 

3331"61 333539 332026 332&94
332473 332038 

3328~3 332462 3332~)3 333153 333477 3323"86
333700 333753 332696 

3331~7 3324~0 333653 333394
3324P8 332541 

332·r
3328 5 332528 332687 3324~8 333579 333172332602 332319 3332 6 332365 
3332'-46 3327 4 332880 33341.0
3330146 33312f 3321, 6 332490 3327.b9
332734 33351i6 333513
332434 332529 

3321~9 333019 33211.3 332498 332332
332995 333164 

3337~4 332844 332234 333055
:33!88 333136 

3337!iJ7 3328.:56 
332637 332871332460 332736 
3323'53 3334161 333352 3333""57 
3333'72 332785 3335\65 3322;70 

333245 333421332100 ;j32291 
333392 3335(38 333536 333107
333134 333514 
33330!': 

.J_J3709 333446
332836 332346 333424 

332104 
Winners may purchase llY.Q. tickets for $18 each at Stepan from 4-6pm on Thursday, Sept. 20, 1990. The winner or a friend m.Y.ll present the winner's student i.d., lottery ticket, and money. ALTERNATE WINNERS: 
1) 332479 2) 333570 3) 332362 4) 333462 5) 333363 
6) 332032 7) 333544 8) 333508 9) 332919 1 0) 333211 
11) 333767 12) 332876 13) 332436 14) 332111 15) 333270 Alternates should come to Stepan at 6pm with student i.d, lottery ticket, and money on 9/20/90 and may purchase remaining tickets according to the order listed above. *Due to allocation of extra tickets to S.U.B., there are 150 winners. 
African-American community of South Bend. Members of the South Bend community have been involved with planning the conference since July." 
The conference is titled "The Black Man's Think Tank: 'Nommo,' the Africentric Re­sponse to the World." 
The four main speakers will share the spotlight on Saturday. They are Ellis Liddell, Wade Nobles, Na'im Akbar and Haki Madhubuti. 
Liddell, president of Lidell Enterprises, Inc. a speakers agency, will speak on "The Economics of Africentricity" on Saturday at 9 am. A graduate of Mississippi College, where he starred on the track team and participated in Olympic trials, 
Liddell has worked as a life insurance agent, financial ser­vices advisor, account executive and investment officer for sev­eral companies. Last year, Van Kamper Merit listed him among the top four municipal bond brokers. He founded Lidell En­terprises earlier this year. 
Madhubuiti, a English profes­sor at Chicago State University, will give his presentation on "Africentricity and the Black Man: From Symbol to Sub­stance" at 10 a.m. Madhubuiti, a poet and essayist, is co­founder and editor of the Third World Press, the oldest contin­uously operating African­American press in the nation. He recently wrote "Black Men: Obsolete, Single, Dangerous? Essays in Discovery, Solution and Hope." 
Nobles, a professor of black studies at San Francisco State University and founder and di­rector of the Institute for the Advanced Study of Black Fam­ily, Life and Culture, Inc., will speak on "Africentricity in a World Ruled by Natural Law and the Divine Order" at 1 p.m. 
He has served as a delegate to the White House Conference on Families and the President's Commission on Mental Health. He has conducted research and written articles on African-American family dynamics, black child development and the psychological aspects of mythology. 
He is also the author of "African-American Families: Issues, Insights and Directions." 
The last speaker, Akbar, will address the topic of "The Afri­centric Response to the Word: 'Nommo,' the Word Made Flesh" at 2:50 p.m. Akbar, a clinical psychologist and pro­fessor of black studies at Florida State University, has spoken previously at ND and is a regular participant in the University of Cincinnati think tank. 
He has taught at Norfolk State University, served as director of the Office of Human Development for the American Muslim Mission and written columns for the international Muslim Journal newspaper. 
Akbar is the author of several articles and four books, includ­ing, "Chains and Images of Psy­chological Slavery." He holds undergraduate and doctoral degrees in psychology from the University of Michigan. 
Durgans , Anthony Smith, co­president of the Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC) at ND, and Charles Martin, director of Ur­ban Youth Services at the South Bend YMCA, will give opening remarks on Friday at 7 p.m. 
Among the speakers that night will be Ronald Dorris, as­sistant ·professor of American Studies at the University, Wayne Thomas of the Association of African-American Role Models of St. Louis and Michele Cage, co-president of the BCAC. 
Conference attendees will register from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. Friday in Stepan Center. Reg­istration fees are $5 for ND and Saint Mary's Students, $10 for high school students, $25 for students of other colleges and $40 for everyone else. Registration information is available from the Office of Mi­nority Affairs at 239-6841. 
BAR-B-QUE BEEF RIB BUFFET MADE FROM OUR OWN PRIME Rll
6 
4-8PM 

~ 95 
ALL YOU CARE TOEA T Also on Buffet. .. 

Mesquite Chicken & Chili 
100 Center, Mishawaka Phone 259-9925 




Sex Offense Services helps victims traumatized by date rape 

Thursday, September 20, 1990 The Observer 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Visiting from New York 
Kelly Boglarsky, cent~r. a Seni?r art majo~, and Billy Sandusky, assistant professor of art, hear Maria Hente, a New York arttst and pnntmaker, dtscuss her work as part of her visit to Saint Mary's. 
By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
"You can't be a little bit raped." 
The above statement may sound a bit strange, but for Laurel Eslinger, coordinator of Sex Offense Services (SOS), it carries an important message. 
Eslinger dispelled the myth that an "acquaintance rape" is less of a rape than rape by a stranger. 
She said that date rape, although a different situation than rape by a stranger, is "no less a rape." 
"It's often more traumatic," said Eslinger, for a woman to be raped by someone she knows rather than by a stranger. Date rape presses many psycho­logical and physical difficulties upon the victim. Eslinger cited 
International Business Development invites you to attend 




ORIENTATION 
Tonight at 7:00 PM 220 Hayes -Healy 
*All Majors Welcome* 
DOMER RUNS ... A CAMPUS TRADITION 
THIS SATURDAY AT 10:00AM RUNS FOLLOWED BY A PANCAKE BREAKFAST MEET AT STEPAN CENTER NEAR MAINTENANCE BUILDING FOR THE 3 & 6 MILE RUNS 
the following: 
•The 
victim's sense of trust is shattered. Rapes often occur on the second or third date, after the woman feels somewhat se­cure with the man. 

•Date 
rapes are often more violent than stranger rapes. Eslinger mentioned that one University student, a date rape victim, admitted severe physical beating during her rape. 

•The 
victim feels her life is in danger. During most rapes, the victim actually thinks the rapist is going to kill her. This fear only adds to the other problems that are peculiar to date rape. 

•Society 
views date rape in a different light. Many people think that date rape is not really rape, or simply a lesser "degree" of rape, said Eslinger. 


On a college campus such as ND, the silence surrounding 
The Notre Dame Council on 
date rape can help it exist, said Eslinger. 
"The administration needs to say this (date rape) is a problem," she said. The administration considers rape to be rape by a stranger, not by an ND student, she added. 
Not only is there silence from the administration, but the victims are often silent about date rape. Some do not report the incident to the Office of Student Affairs, according to Eslinger. In some cases, SOS is the only organization that knows about a campus rape. 
One reason for the victim's si­lence, said Eslinger, is her fear of publicity of the case. 
Alcohol plays a role in date rapes, she said. However, alcohol cannot be used as an excuse for what happened. If either the rapist or the victim, 
pageS 


Acquaintance rape defined 
By PETER LOFTUS other than a defendant, accord­Assistant News Editor ing to the code. 
No distinction is made be­According to section 35-50-2­tween rape by a stranger and a 4, a class A felony, carries with so-called "acquaintance rape," it a term of imprisonment of 30 according to the Indiana years, with a maximum of 20 Criminal Code for 1989. additional years for 
Section 35-42-4-1, titled "aggravated circumstances" "Rape," reads: and not more than 10 years 
"A person who knowingly or subtracted for "mitigating cir~ intentionally has sexual inter­cumstances." The fine for a course with a member of the class A felony may not exceed opposite sex commits a rape, a $10,000. class B felony when: A person who threatens or 
•The other person is com­uses deadly force or seriously pelled by force or imminent injures his or her victim during threat of force; a rape, then, faces up to 50 
•The other person is unaware years in prison, and a fine of up 
that the sexual intercourse is to $10,000. occurring; or 
•The other person is so men-Class B felonies, according to tally disabled or deficient that section 35-50-2-5, carry terms consent to sexual intercourse of imprisonment of 10 years, cannot be given." with a maximum of 10 addi­
However, the offense is a tional years for aggravating class A felony if it is committed circumstances and not more by using or threatening the use than 4 years subtracted for of deadly force, if it is commit-mitigating circumstances. The ted while armed with a deadly maximum fine for a class B weapon or if it results in seri-felony also may not exceed ous bodily injury to a person $10,000. 
or both, is intoxicated, it makes no difference, she said, in terms of who should be held accountable. 
"The rapist should always be held accountable," Eslinger said. 
SOS, located in South Bend's Madison Center, provides help to victims of all sexual offenses. Eslinger said that ND and Saint Mary's students who were victims of rape have received help from SOS. 
Eslinger discussed not only date rape, but rape in general and an overall sketch of the typical rapist. 
She stressed that rape is an act of violence, not a sexual act. Sex is merely the weapon of a violent crime. The rapist motivated by "sadism, anger, and a desire for power," she said. Many rapists already have 
willing sexual partners, so sex 
is not the motivation for rape. 
Rapists often have a problem 
with self-esteem and see rape 
as a way to be in control. By 
humiliating and degrading the 
victim, the rapist will have 
shown his power. 
Many rapists have been 
sexually victimized themselves 
as children, according to 
Eslinger. 
Eslinger noted that only one 
in ten rapes are reported. She 
gave the following reasons for 
the underreporting of rape: 
•The 
way society looks at rape. In many cases the victim is blamed for what happened. People think that because the woman dressed or acted in a certain way, she is responsible for what happened. Fearing the judgmental attitude coming from this "mindset," said Eslinger, the victim does not report the rape. 

•Some 
victims do not identify rape as rape. "They say, 'Well, you know how men are,' and accept what happened because that's the way things are," Eslinger said. 


Society promotes the ex­istence of violence against women, according to Eslinger. 
"The media does a wonderful job" in promoting the existence of rape, said Eslinger. "Slasher movies," like "Dressed to Kill" for example, often portray women as victims of violence, and this "de-sensitizes" society. Pornography has become very violent, according to Eslinger. 
Eslinger does not believe in censorship of the media, but she wishes that movies would not contain so much violence directed against women. 
As long as the woman is blamed for it, rape will continue to exist. Because women are often held ac­countable, many rapists realize that they can get away with rape. 
"We live in a patriarchal 
see RAPE! page 7 

·_r 
$6.00 ENTRY FEE IN ADVANCE ($7.00 DAY OF) T-SHIRTS TO ALL RUNNERS SPONSORED BY NVA 
The Observer 


Rape 
continued from page 5 
society," said Eslinger. Men see rape as a macho act. It is emphasized in our society to "score" often and early in a young man's life, she said. 
Regarding the news media, Eslinger said it has the obligation to provide "lots of information" about the crime of rape. It must emphasize that rape is not the victim's fault. 
As for printing names of victims in newspapers, Eslinger said that until the victim can be fully assured that they will not be further traumatized, then it is the "ethical obligation" of the media not to print or air names of rape victims. 
She noted that victims often say they were raped twice: once by the rapist, and a second time by the "system"-the news media and judicial system. 
If there comes a time when victims can be assured that they will not be raped again by the system, then perhaps printing names will "show that victims are people," and not objects, said Eslinger. She added that rapists see their victims only as objects. 
Education is the most important way to help alleviate 
POW/MIA's honored 
By BETSY BRODY 
News Write; 
A ritual retreat ceremony commemorating POW's and MIA's from all wars will high­light National POW/MIA week at Notre Dame. 
On Friday, the Arnold Air Society of the Notre Dame Air Force ROTC will host a recep­tion and formal retreat cere­mony in honor of POW/MIA week. The reception, at 3 p.m. in the Air Force Cadet Lounge of the Pasquerilla Center, will welcome approximately fifty former POW's from the South Bend area along with their fam­ilies. 
In addition, a representative from the governor's office, Carmen Wilson, will be on hand to present a proclamation declaring Friday "Indiana POW and MIA Recognition Day." Wilson, the Deputy Director of Veteran Affairs for Indiana, will present a proclamation co­inciding with George Bush's declaration of September 15-21 as National POW/MIA week. 
South Bend Mayor and Notre Dame graduate, Joe Kernan, a former Vietnam POW, will also address the group. 
At 4:30 p.m., the group will move to the main flagpole on the South Quad to begin the formal retreat ceremony. At this tri-military ceremony, con­ducted by the Air Force, Army, and Navy ROTC units, the flag will be taken down and Taps will be played. 
The ceremony and reception will "remember, honor, and commemorate" those who have given the ultimate sacrifice for freedom, according to Major Cindy Hart, associate professor of Aerospace Studies. 
"We should work for their freedom because they have sac­rificed to give us our freedom," said Chris Stengrim, comman­der of the Arnold Air Society. 

IAMERICAN 
t~· 
the problem of rape in our society. Children must be informed of the problem of rape at a young age. 
SOS has a large "prevention component," said Eslinger, that attempts to make contact with young children. Volunteers are sent out to area elementary and secondary schools to provide useful information to students. 
Many ND and Saint Mary's students are part of these prevention programs. It is easier for students to relate to people closer to their age, thus they will get more out of the prevention programs. 
"The kids love it," said Eslinger. 
The prevention programs include play performances and presentations of situations that students may find themselves in. Students are forced to think about what they would do in certain difficult situations. 
SOS is trying to-reach children at an earlier age, to "nip the problem in the bud," as Eslinger put it. Sometimes fathers give the wrong messages to their children, she noted. 
All kinds of sex offenses are addressed in the prevention programs, Eslinger said, not just rape. Because many rapists were victims of sexual abuse as 
•102 
were between 16 and 30. 

•138 were victims of rape. 

•13 
were victims of attempted rape. 


Occasionally, sex offenders call SOS. They are referred to the appropriate offender­focused service-facilities. SOS is a victim-focused center. 
children, one of the goals of the prevention programs is to teach children how to avoid sexual abuse. 
SOS provides help to victims of sexual offenses and their families. It specializes in crisis intervention, prevention, treatment, and training of those come in ccntact with rape victims through their occupations, such as nurses and police officers. 
The center was formed in 197 4, at a time when rape was "coming out of the closet." It was initially a grass-roots organization that received no funding and relied entirely on volunteers. In the late 1970s, it hired a paid coordinator and this "facilitated growth" of the center, according to Eslinger. 
There is now a paid staff of two-Eslinger and a co­worker-and a volunteer staff of 60, many of whom are ND and Saint Mary's students. The volunteers are called "advocates," and they are em­ployed to counsel sex offense victims who call the center, appear at the center in person or are staying in nearby hospitals. Service is provided to sex offense victims 24 hours Dame and Saint Mary's," Eslinger said. Currently, SOS is looking for more volunteers, and if anyone is interested, Eslinger may be reached at her office at 234-0061. 

SOS statistics for 1989: 
•288 
victims of sex offenses received help from SOS. 

•30 
were under age 5. 


New Nighters' 
per day. 
Saturday Night Live announced in New York, Tuesday that it will 
"We're very appreciative of 

open its 15th season with two new cast additions, featured per­
the volunteers from Notre 
formers Chris Rock, (left) and Chris Farley. 

We're Conoco, the Hottest Brand Going. And if you're a Business Major, have we got a date for you. On Thursday, September 20, 1990; from 7-9 p.m., we'll be hosting a Conoco General Information session in the Upper Lounge­University Club, and we'd like to meet you. Come find out about the career opportunities at Conoco. And we'll be back on campus to interview on October 31 & November I. So, mark these dates; it could he the beginning of a very hot future. 
Conoco IS commg September 20, 1990! 




(conoco) 
A Du Pont Subsidiary 
Thursday, September 20, 1990 The Observer page. 7 

Rape 
continued from page 1 
that you did something wrong, then the way for you to be safe is just not to do it again. n 
For the survivor to realize that she is not at fault, she must learn how to trust again, date again and how to feel safe again, Donley said. 
Many times people in the sur­vivor's world do not understand the feelings of anger, depression and fear that follow a rape, instead, they think the survivor should have recovered. 
For this reason, a group situa­tion with other survivors, who can understand each other's feelings, is a positive form of therapy, Donley said. 
"Usually what I tell people," she said, "is 'You're not going to forget it [the rape], but the role and the prominence that it plays in your life right now is going to change, and it's going to move to the background. on 
Donley said that each sur­vivor's emotional healing pro­cess is different. The survivor's past often plays a role in de­termining the length of therapy, she said, as incidents like child abuse can worsen the trauma of rape. 

Part of Donley's role as a counselor involves encouraging her clients to explore their civil and legal options after the rape has occurred, although she stresses that the decision is the survivor's to make. 
The counselor herself has mixed feelings about reporting rapes. "On one hand, and I wish that more people would report and press charges be­cause I think that there is a way then that publicly says, 'This is not okay. We will not tolerate this behavior,n she said. 
Bank provides funding 
Special to The Observer 
The University has received a $250,000 commitment from Society Bank, Indiana to estab­lish an endowment for under­graduate scholarships in the College of Business Administration's Department of Finance. 
University President Father Edward Malloy, said, "Society Bank's gift will be affectionately remembered not only by the generations of Notre Dame Business students who benefit from it, but also by the University whose quality it has enhanced. We are grateful for this generous commitment from our neighbors." 
Michael J. Hammes, president of Society Bank, Indiana and a 1970 graduate of Notre Dame, said, "Our bank has enjoyed a long history of supporting and cooperating with Notre Dame. The University is an asset to the community not only as the largest employer but also as an excellent educator of students 
"On the other hand, after dealing with lots of survivors, it would be very difficult for me to make a decision if I would report it or not if it happened me." 
She said seeing people get "revictimized" by the legal sys­tem has led to her being torn on the issue. "Especially in a date rape situation, it's his word against hers," she said. 
"In a situation like that, her behavior is going to be scruti­nized. Was she drinking? How was she dressed?" 
Mixed feelings aside, Donley 
We all love you madly! 

in skills necessary for busi­nesses like ours to perform." 
"Many students remain in the area to work and live," Hammes said. "It is our plea­sure to establish an endow­ment that ensures continuation of a resource of well educated young people that we can de­pend on for future growth and development. We believe that community support and in­volvement are essential for area growth and success. This endowment is just one example of Society bank's commitment to the community." 
With 17 offices in St. Joseph's County, Society Bank, Indiana is an affiliate of Society Corporation, one of the largest bank holding companies in the Midwest with the assets of $15.6 billion. Indiana has 43 of the corporation's 370 offices, which are also located in Ohio, Michigan, and Florida. Through its affiliates, Society engages in commercial banking, consumer banking, mortgage banking and leasing and provides trust and investment banking services. 
said that ideally, upon receiving a report of rape that has just happened, she would encourage the survivor to allow Security to secure evidence so that if the female later chooses to press charges, she has some evidence to do so. 
She said the same holds true for the survivor going to the hospital, where an examination can produce evidence, such as internal injuries or the presence of semen in her body, which could later be used in a court of law. 
Wednesday Sept. 19 thru Saturday, Sept 22 8:10pm 
Sunday, Sept. 23 3:10pm 
~ i Washington Hall 
c:/],1 

Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office $7 $5 Stu./ Sen. Cit.-Wed., Thu., Sun. 
Master Card/ Visa orders call 239-8128 

of inflation 
WASHINGTON (AP) Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan told Congress on Wednesday that the Persian Gulf crisis has piled "new and substantial risks" on an already faltering national econ­omy. 
In a generally gloomy assessment of U.S. economic prospects, Greenspan said the jump in oil prices since Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait had increased the threat of both 
higher  inflation  and  a  re­ 
cession.  
But  the  chairman  of  the  

central bank rejected suggestions that U.S. economic policy makers were in effect being held hostage by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. 
While he conceded that the Fed's job of promoting non­inflationary growth has been made more difficult by the unfolding events in the Persian Gulf, he insisted the central bank still had tools to mitigate the economic fallout. 
But private economists said Greenspan's pessimistic comments reflected the tough choices facing him. Normally rising unemployment and other signs of sluggish growth would prompt the central bank to slash interest rates in order to spur demand. 
But the oil price shock means that the country is now in the grips of its worst bout of inflation in nine years with consumer prices climbing at an annual rate of 6.2 percent. 
"The Fed is in a real bind," said Bruce Steinberg, an economist with Merrill Lynch. "It would like to ease because the economy is rapidly weakening but at the same time inflation is rapidly accelerat­ing." 
Financial markets had been eagerly awaiting Greenspan's first report on economic conditions since the Persian Gulf turmoil began. But for the most part they reacted with disappointment as the Fed chief seemed to dash hopes of a quick move to lower interest rates. 
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials dropped 13.86 to close at 2,557.43 as investors reacted with disappointment to Greenspan's comments that the upsurge in oil prices had diminished the likelihood that persistent inflationary pressures were coming under control. 

the Fed pushed interest ratesr~~~~~~~~....~........................................................
lower at a time when other 

Greenspan's comments repre­sented a setback for the Bush administration as well. The administration has been lobbying for months for the Fed to lower interest rates in order to avert the first economic downturn since the 1981-82 recession. 
Greenspan said at present the economy was still growing, although at a very slow pace. But he ticked off a number of negative impacts stemming from the more than $10 per barrel rise in oil prices since Aug. 2 and said prospects of a future downturn could not be ruled out. 
"Regrettably. events in the Middle East have introduced new and substantial risks to the outlook," Greenspan told the congressional Joint Economic Committee. 
While refusing to say whether the chance of a recession was now above 50 percent, he did say, "The oil shock has clearly increased both the probability of inflation and recession." 
Greenspan did not signal that the Fed either had eased credit already or was planning any immediate easing moves. 
Instead, he merely repeated comments made in the past that financial markets would respond favorably to a credible deficit reduction package by pushing long-term rates, such as mortgage rates, lower and the Fed would do its part by helping to lower short-term rates. 
David Jones, an economist with Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., said that Greenspan's testimony signaled new Fed 
concerns about a possible steep downward slide in the dollar if 
countries were raising their rates to fight inflation. 
"This was a major departure. He emphasized strongly the dangers in a declining dollar. It means he will delay any easing steps," Jones said. 
The Fed chairman said that crude oil prices average around $30 per barrel over the next year, about $10 above the price before Aug. 2, the higher oil prices would likely lower economic growth by a full percentage point over a year's time while boosting the inflation rate by up to 2 percentage points. 
Here's your opportunity to clean up your act! 
Isn't it time you considered doing away with the low resolution ofthe l.aserwriter? No longer do you have to settle for printing materials in which the type isjagged and difficult to read at small point sizes. Using our Linotronic 200P your fonts and graphics are accurately spaced and registered, blacks are solid, whites are clean and tones are crisp. 
What's more all jobs are guaranteed to be completed in twenty-four hours or less or we'll output it for free. And we offer free pick-up and delivery to any administrative or academic office on the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's campus. 
Best ofall, we offer high qualitv outputting at extremely reasonable prices. In fact are prices are some ofthe lowest in the nation. Special discounts are also available for largejobs. 
Our staffis familiar with most major desktop publishing and graphics programs for the Macintosh. And we have alarge library ofAdobe Typefaces. 
Isn't it time you did away with the 300 dpi resolution of the Laserwriter and switched to the 1270 dpi resolution ofour Linotronic Imagesetter? 
For more information call Observer Typesetting at 239-7471. 
ffiHHffi observer typesetting fHHHE3 
314 LaFonune Student Center 
239-7471 
The Observer Thursday, September 20, 1990 

Think Before You Drink BefOre You Drive
SObering Advice 
can save alife 


• 
Wide selection of Mexican and American food and beverages. 

• 
10°/o discount on food purchases with ND/SMC and Holy Cross student, faculty and staff ID.* 

• 
Conveniently located in Indian Ridge Plaza near Phar Mor and TJ Maxx. 


'1~~~~-. 
Hours: Mon.-Thur. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.& Sat 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. noon-1 0 p.m. 
American Express, VISA, Master Card accepted. 
: *Offer good thru September . 
. . . . . . . . . . . only at the Grape Rd. location.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . : tliape Road at" Iridian ·Ridge Plaza~ Mishawaka".· 277--13fa· .................... 

M&ieari 
•: 
Business
Thursday, September 20, 1990 
page 9 

The Alumni Senior Club: Where does the money go? 
By JOHN CRONIN Senior Bar for four years now stant salary independent of the 
Business Writer and never in those years has he amount of money that the bar 
seen any excess money which takes in. They receive no per­
The Alumni Senior Club was not put back into the bar. centage of the bar's total re­('Senior Bar') has a truly In fact, the reason that Senior ceipts. The object in attractingunique relationship with the Bar was put under his manage­business to the establishment is University-It maintains the rial control was that the previ­to cover the operation costs. status of a non-profit organi­ous student-run bar was con­About 50% of the total money zation and enjoys tax-free privi­stantly being bailed out of debt taken in went toward the pur­leges as such. by the University, said Briggs. chase of alcohol, food and 
Still, for all practical pur­Concerning the non-profit other merchandise totalingposes Senior Bar functions as a status of the Alumni Senior $107,000 last year, accordingself-sufficient business. Club, Briggs maintained that to Briggs.
The bar charges a $25 mem­although it is a bar, it is an All of the costs of runningbership fee to about 1500 stu­auxiliary branch of the Univer­Senior Bar come directly out of dents yearly, a $2 cover charge sity which is itself a non-profit the Senior Bar account. This for non-members, the prices of organization. year for the first time the Uni­drinks are similar to other bars The undisclosed amount of versity is charging a $2000 per
in town, and apparently the money taken in by Senior Bar month rent to help cover the establishment is not lacking pa­goes right back into covering original cost of the building. trons during football weekends. the many costs of running a The University does not sub­
If this is the case, then what large drinking establishment. sidize Senior Bar. It is totallyhappens to all the money that The largest expense is labor. self-supportive.Senior Bar pulls in? According the Briggs, approxi­"Because of all my expenses,Senior Bar never makes any mately 32% of the gross is most of the months that we're 
profit, according to Lawrence spent on labor. The Alumni Se­open I lose money. The onlyBriggs, the general manager. nior Club employs 22 bar­thing that keeps us ahead is the "We make just enough profit to tenders and three student money made during football 
get by every year and have managers, numbers not ap­weekends," added Briggs. enough to start up the next proaching the average South Though it is seemingly inde­year with," according to Bend bar. pendent, Senior Bar cannot Briggs. The student managers, as escape Student Affairs regula­
Briggs has been managing well as Briggs, receive a con-tions. 
AP Photo 

Pressing matters 
New York Post publisher Peter Kalikow poses with Tuesday's edition at a news conference in his office. Unions accepted a settlement which will keep the paper afloat: a 20 percent pay cut and four-day week. 

Financial planning essential for women 
your savings which can be as should be focused on eliminat­
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
near as six months away or as ing debts and cutting back on
Businesss Writer 
distant as retirement age. unnecessary expenditures. 
The attainment of these goals Eliminating debts involves re­
"People who devote a little entails not only recording ex­paying loans while cutting back time to managing resources penditures, debts, and earnings on expenditures may mean eat­will make it [financially)," said but also avoiding overuse of ing-in more often or postponing Luz Aquino, president of Inde­credit cards and creating a vacations. Although these are pendent Means, Inc., in a lec­statement of net worth-how not primary goals, they are just ture emphasizing the impor­much is owned and how much as crucial to successful budget­tance of women being able to is owed. ing.budget their finances. 
Women can relieve a burden Aquino tells those interested Aquino summed up the secret from their husbands as well as in budgeting their finances, of successful financial planning benefit themselves by learning "start with savings as the num­as, "saving off the top before to budget their finances, said ber one goal. I tell my clients, you spend any of your earn­Aquino. 'at least put away ten percent.'" ings." 
"We can not do budgeting unless we have financial goals," These savings will accumu­"It's not what you make, it's Aquino said, adding that the late, said Aquino. For example, what you save that counts," initial goal must be reasonable just $670 saved annually begin­Aquino concluded. or the financial budgeter will ning at age twenty five will become discourag~d. amount to $300,000 at retire­The lecture, sponsored in 
Aquino, a South Bend certi­ment. Other money saved can conjunction with the Year of fied financial planner, also em­be put in a special reserve fund Women, was the first in a phasized the importance of for emergencies. series funded by the Hesburgh setting numerous goals. That Library and the Notre Dame is, setting a projection point for Secondary and tertiary goals Accountancy Department. 
Senior Bar Overhead Breakdown 
Miscellaneous Ex enses include Utilities 

All percentages
Telephones 
are estimates.

Repairs Maintenance Permits Promos Cleaning supplies Uniforms 
Equipment rental Supplies include: Rent Beer Office supplies Liquor Depriciation Food Merchandise Soda Wine 
The Observer 

Student Affairs permits Se­hours before game time. Never nior Bar to be open only can it open before noon. Wednesday through Saturday "I understand where Student evenings during the school Affairs has to be concerned year. Furthermore, the Univer­about regulating the Alumni sity would not allow the bar to Senior Club. Our goal is not to open after the Michigan game. make money, we're here for the As a general policy, Senior Bar benefit of the seniors and can not open more than three alumni," commented Briggs. 
Indiana lags behind nation in number of black businesses Nationwide increase of 38 percent 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP} -The foot in the door of the "good­number of black businesses in old-boy network." Indiana rose 17 percent be­tween 1982 and 1987, but that "In America, people do busi­pace lagged far behind the na­ness with their friends," said tional rate. Gene McFadden, the black 
The number of black compa­president of Freight Masters nies nationwide jumped 38 per­Inc. "They don't make cent during that time, indicat­strangers millionaires. ing broad black participation in "If you are not part of the the economic expansion of the good-old-boy system and 1980s, the U.S. Census Bureau someone doesn't bring you in, 
reported. you're not going to do a lot of In Indiana, the number rose business." by 856 companies to a total of McFadden said blacks do not 5,867 in 1987. have the contacts at bigger 
Nineteen states and the Dis­businesses and banks they need trict of Columbia reported more to get contracts and loans. black-owned companies than Indiana, and of adjacent states "We don't have a lot of good only Kentucky had fewer. relationships at that level," he 
Black businesses at that time said. made up 1.99 percent of the Harry Alford, deputy com­294,570 companies in Indiana. missioner for minority business Their $350 million in sales and development at the Indiana De­receipts comprised less than 1 partment of Administration, percent of the sales and re­agrees, but he speaks more di­ceipts of all Indiana companies. rectly. 
The number of Indiana black companies with pa,id employees "It's a discrimination prob­jumped from 722 in 1982 to lem," he said Monday. 'Tm not 1,110 in 1987, an increase of surprised at those numbers at 388, or 54 percent. Nationwide, all.'' however, they grew 87 percent. Alford said neither the state 
Morton Marcus, director of government nor Indiana busi­the Indiana Business Research nesses have been as sensitive to Center at Indiana University, black businesses or as aggres­said two reasons explain these sive in promoting them as other figures: states. "I say, 'Gee, they don't 
• 
Indiana did not recover from care."' the 1980-82 recession as well as the rest of the nation. But Alford believes that 

• 
Black enrollment at Indiana changes can be made. universities declined. Since he started work in April 


Both trends resulted in fewer 1989, state spending with black business opportunities for companies has quadrupled black companies in Indiana. from 1.2 percent to slightly 
"The states where the econ­more than 5 percent. By next omy is doing best afford the year, he wants it to be in double best opportunities," he said. digits. 
Asked about the disparity between the Hoosier businesses Alford's office encourages and the national trend, Indiana minority companit.s to compete Chamber of Commerce presi­for state contracts by publiciz­dent John Walls said: "That's ing the state's needs among an interesting question. I can't minority owners and teaching imagine there are fewer incen­them how to bid. tives in Indiana than any place "Experience is the main else." thing," he said. "You've got to 
Black leaders said, however, have experience to be bank­it is tougher for blacks to get a able." 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, September 20, 1990
page 10 
The Obsen!er­
P.o. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Edltor-ln.Chlef Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor.••••••••••••••••Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 
'BOY-o-BOY> lttiS SoUTE.R DVD£ IS A REAL GOODY-GrOODY. THEY CAN'T DIC»-UP ANYTHIN(n ON HIM. NO SE~ StANDAL. 1 NO 
RAMPANT SNUGCRLJN61, NO NOTHtN{;,. HECK, T-r DOESN'T LOOk' Ll/<€ Ht..'S 6VEN /NTERACT£D WITH ME.MBE.RS 
OF nte OPPOSITE. SE..X/ 
Inclusive language celebrates oneness in faith 
Campus Ministry  distinctions and celebrates oneness.  not "Mother," "Lord" but not "Lady." The pronoun is always  consciousness of equality might require, but not so difficult to  We are challenged to give deep and honest reflection to  

 "Inclusive language" is the  "His," never "Hers." In official  make others. "It is right to give  how the words we do or don't  
Our actions and our words  phrase  used  to  indicate  texts, it's "Pray, 'Brethren,'"  Him thanks and praise," for  say and the actions we do or  
I  not  only  signify  what  we  language  that  does  not  never "Sisters."  example, could easily become  don't perform symbolize and  
I  believe; they also affect what  differentiate between male and  It would be hard to make  "It is right to give God thanks  affect  our· reality.  In other  
II  we believe.  female in references that are  some of the changes that a  and praise."  words, they are sacramental.  
I  not inherently gender specific.  
Speech and action are creative forces. They move  Certainly, language is not exclusive merely on the basis of  Hickey's performance shows concern for women  
I r:  from speaker to listener, doer to receiver, turning concepts into realities. As reality changes, new words and new actions replace old ones, and new realities are-or aren't-allowed to emerge. As soon as a concept is articulated or acted upon, according to this line of thought, it probably becomes obsolete. Its very expression ends on concept by turning it into reality and sets the stage for the next. The process seems infinite. In language and gesture related to prayer and worship, the same principles may apply. How we pray and what expression(s) we use in prayer  differentiating between the sexes. In the sentence "After dinner, the men retired to the parlor for cigars, while the women cleared to tables," the language is not exclusionary (although the behavior surely is). St. Paul alludes to this notion in Galatians: "There is no such thing as Jew and Greek, slave and free, male and female, for we are all one person in Christ Jesus." This is not to suggest that distinctions between the sexes are denied in the New Testament; rather, it is to suggest that they are not primary. What is primary is accepting that all persons professing the same faith are  Dear Editor: I take exception to Devon Marcuson's letter, in the Sept. 13 issue of The Observer. If Ms. Marcuson had researched the procedure for hiring college presidents even a little she would have learned: l.William A. Hickey began his career at Saint Mary's College as a part-time faculty member in the biology department. He subsequently became an assis­tant professor, associate pro­fessor, professor and chair of that department. 2. Dr. Hickey was then chosen to be vice president and dean of faculty, a position he filled very capably. On two different occa­sions, when the College was  searching for a new president, he was chosen to be acting president. The second time he was acting president was five years ago. He then became a candidate for president and was chosen over a large field of applicants, many of them women. Obviously, he was the best person for the job ­a fact that he has proven many times during his tenure. 3. Dr. Hickey is a staunch ad­vocate of women's education. If Ms. Marcuson had even at­tempted to meet him, I know she would come from her inter­view convinced of his sincerity and concern that Saint Mary's women receive the best quality of education. He is certainly not  threatened or intimidated by the women's movement. 4. I hope that Ms. Marcuson's coming years at this College will teach her not to make snap judgements or broad, sweeping statements regarding the fit­ness of someone for a certain office, be it college president or union president or president of the P.T.A.. I also hope that she will lose this perception that "only" men or "only" women are the proper people to hold certain positions and that she will learn to judge by perfor­mance, not by sex. Charlotte West Saint Mary's College staff member Sept. 13, 1990  
both articulate and create a religious or spiritual reality.  one with each other in God. Cultural gender and role  Call for female SMC president smacks of sexism  
Therefore, it might be very important to make some specific changes in our expressions of worship. In a recent discussion about language and prayer, a (male) priest commented, "We really should be more inclusive in our language. After all, many women are often present, and they would feel excluded if the language were only about men." Wrong answer. Making the language of public prayer and worship more inclusive does not depend primarily on making everyone present feel included. It is primarily an effort to form a personal and communal consciousness of humanity that transcends  assignments are acceptable, so long as they are determined on the basis of equality among all members of the Body of Christ. The value is one of consciousness. Because it has been culturally (and, therefore, arbitrarily) determined for thousands of years that men are the primary custodians of power in society, the language of society will necessarily be male oriented when it writes about matters of consequence. Continuing to use such language, however, continues the very notion it expresses. Therefore, the use of male­oriented language needs to be challenged and revised. For example, in the prayer of Roman Catholic eucharist, God is referred to as "Father" but  Dear Editor: In her letter to The Observer (Sept. 13), Devon Marcuson appears to be troubled by the fact that the present president of Saint Mary's College is male. She points to the unbroken suc­cession of female presidents between 1865-1968, suggesting that the female line was termi­nated by sinister machinations springing from fear of the women's movement and a de­sire to "show who's boss." What Ms. Marcuson fails to mention is that throughout that period only sisters belonging to the Congregation of the Holy Cross could hold the presidency. After the sisters relaxed this rule, both men and women  were able to become presidents of Saint Mary's College. The new direction reflects the change at Saint Mary's from an · institution governed entirely by members of a religious com­munity to one that incorporates members of laity in its gover­nance. If subsequent presidents have been male, it is perhaps a testimony to the qualifications rather than sexism. Ms. Marcuson seems to be unaware of the process by which these lay presidents were appointed. In each case, there was a search committee com­posed of male and female members who evaluated appli­cations of both men and women on the basis of their qualifica­ tion and experience. In the most recent search, which re­sulted in the appointment of Dr. William Hickey, the entire Saint Mary's community, including alumnae as well as current students, had a opportunity to consider a range of candidates, among whom were several women. Dr. Hickey enjoyed the strong support of all constituencies of the college. In view of Dr. Hickey's excep­tional ability and dedication, the call for a female president smacks of sexism which Ms. Marcuson purports to abhor. Professor Bruno Schlesinger Humanistic Studies Saint Mary's College Sept. 17, 1990  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  


Accent 
Thursday, September 20, 1990 
'Shrew' provides humour 
MAITHEW MOHS learns that Katherina is avail­interaction among actors and accent writer able for marriage, but the only the play on dialogue the problem is her personality. She performance remains hu­
Willian Shakespeare's "The possesses a harsh nature, but morous. Taming of the Shrew" has had Petruchio decides to pursue her The setting of the play is very many incarnations. It's been anyway because of her large minimal, but this is not com­turned ;nto a musical called dowery. pletely negative because it is "Kiss Me Kate," and this sum­not really a necessity. However, mer it \vas performed in New Petruchio and Katherina go setting "The Taming of the York's Central Park set in the head to head with their wits Shrew" in prohibition Chicago Old We ;;t. It has even served as and wills as he tries to make does pose a few problems. For an episode on TV's her more feminine. Lucentio instance, it seems odd at first to "Moonlighting." Now, Catholic also develops a very elaborate see the characters dressed in Univenity's National Players scheme in order to win the love 1930's clothing while speaking have brought it to Notre Dame's of Bianca which results in some Shakespearean English. Also, Washin~on Hall through hilarious and outrageous the play was originally set in Sunday set in prohibition scenes. Padua, Italy, which is Chicago All in all, the National Players maintained, but there are 
give an outstanding perfor­references throughout the play 
The ph.y opens with a rich mance in this rendition. to prohibition Chicago. Its young man named Lucentio ar­However, some performances basic function is evident mainly riving in Padua with Tranio, his are stronger than others. For through the costumes, though servant, 1o attend the univer­example, Craig Wallace gives a the minor references to prohi­sity. There Lucentio falls in warm, enjoyable performance bition Chicago do create a lack love with 1local girl, Bianca as Hortensia, while Bruce of continuity. who is being wooed by two Nelson does an outstanding job other suitus, Hortensio and as Tranio, making the humor Even with those problems, Gremio. However, her father more apparent with his inflec­the production is very lively and Baptista w II not allow her to tion and gestures. fresh, and it accomplishes its marry until a suitor is found for However, the chemistry most important job, which is his older daughter Katherina. between Kevin Durkin as entertaining the audience. 
Hortensk and Gremio decide Petruchio and Kelly McShain as to find a su tor for Katherina to Katherina steals the show. At "The Taming of the Shrew" expedite thn situation. times the fast pace of their will be performed nightly at Petruchio, an acquaintance of performances seems a little 8:10p.m. through Sunday at Hortensio, arrives in Padua and overbearing, but due to the Washington Hall. 
Pressler combines education with social awareness 
KRIST~N BAZANY Saint Mary's , Dr. Pressler has of Chuckles) what he was going awareness and theory." It was On Sunday, September 23, ace ~nt writer "done it all" and shares his to do with his life, I doubt he then that he decided that he Pressler and a sex educator plethora of knowledge and ex­would have given an answer wanted to "facilitate women's from South Bend will be hosting 
"When in doubt, do both," or perience with many students in that even remotely resembled understanding of the world they a talk show on ZIP 104, dealing in this case, do it all. This is the the NO and Saint Mary's com­the answer he would have to would be entering into, as with Teenage Sexuality, Sexual philosophy artd the second of munity. give today. professional people." Behavior and The Specter of ten rules of li [e that Dr. Charles Fifteen years ago, if someone Throughout the years, Dr. AIDS. Pressler has .:hosen to follow. had asked Dr. Pressler Pressler has touched upon Dr. Pressler believes, "we Pressler believes he was As a Professor of Sociology at (commonly referred to as Chuck many different careers ranging spend too much time judging asked to do the show because 
from truck driver to intelligence and not enough time under­he is someone who has been in agent, soldier to tuba builder, standing the world in which we touch with the community and and has even dabbled in the live." Because of this belief, has a great awareness of the industry of RV's. Today Pressler structures his classes AIDS issues, as well as an however, it seems Dr. Pressler so that his students receive ap­awareness of teenagers' atti­has not only dabbled, but plied sociology as well as theo­tudes towards AIDS and other plunged into the study of retical concepts. Dr. Pressler sexual issues. sociology and it's real life offers his students the option of Dr. Pressler has done a great experiences. working in the community on a deal for Saint Mary's and NO, 
An Indiana native, Dr. volunteer basis, so that they as well as for the South Bend Pressler attended primary and \viii do things and come in community in the area of real secondary schools in Elkhart, contact with people and life sociology. He believes "that Indiana before deciding to fa­lifestyles that they will be people base perceptions on life miliarize himself with the soci­encountering in the world experience, and throughout the ology of other areas. Prior to which faces them after college. years, he has had enough receiving his B.A., Pressler diversity in experience where spent six months as a research His classes present pressures, he feels he can give the women assistant at the Graduate motives and lifestyles which are of Saint Mary's, as well as other School of Public Health for the neither desirable nor beneficial members of the community, the University of Pittsburgh, study­in our society, in order that we necessary tools needed for ing Male Sexual Issues and may try to understand and tol­coping in a world he feels is Practices. erate them while trying to fig­often male dominated. 
Following his research, Dr. ure out what to do about them. According to Pressler, Pressler attended Duquesne Pressler says, "you can tolerate "Sociology is a discipline that University in Pittsburgh where people even when you don't ap­teaches people not to do any­he received his B.A. in prove, and this toleration leads thing, but to live well. By un­Philosophy. During this time, to understanding." derstanding those who do not his studies at Duquesne as well live well, we can get below the as his research and hotline Dr. Pressler has a fascination surface and aparity in order to crisis intervention experience with the nasty stuff and has see the real issues." sparked his interest in practical witnessed a great deal of it. He real life phenomena. doesn't believe this means he's Dr. Pressler has done it all, or 
jaded, just aware. Pressler says, at least most of it. Through his 
Because of this interest, Dr. "I've talked with lots and lots of experience we can all learn a Pressler went on to receive his people , including murderers, great deal about ourselves and Masters in Philosophy of Social rapists, child molesters, the world we live in. Dr. Sciences at University of prostitutes and transvestites, Pressler tries to stress the im­Chicago, and then returned to and I always see or learn some­portance of self-understanding Indiana where he earned his thing new, but I'm never sur­and insight and tries to guide Doctorate in Sociology at Notre prised." his students in this direction. Dame. 
In 1983 Pressler became a In addition to the deviants in Pressler says, "I am not a part-time professor at Saint society, Pressler also has a teacher. I don't want anyone to Mary's, and two years later was great deal of interest in sexual become me, or take my stand­assigned as a full-time behavior and AIDS. He is point. I want to facilitate them professor in the department of considered highly knowl­so they can understand where Sociology, Anthropology and edgeable in this area through­they are at. and their own posi­Social Work. During the first out the South Bend community • tion." Dr. Pressler has done just few years, Dr. Pressler realized and can often often be found that; he is facilitator, mentor there was a "large gap or con­doing guest appearances on and an asset to the entire flict between sociological this subject around town. community. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next -day classilieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME  
Need BABYSITTER for home FB  GAMES.272-6306  HELP! I NEED 3 PURDUE GA'SI  
NOTICES  games. Call Mike: x5689 (W) or 271-0579  CALL ERIN AT 283-3425  Help! I need 5 Stanford GAs & 2 Studs. Call4110 and ask  BIG $$ OR ROUND TRIP AIRFARE TO ACAPULCO FOR  
(H).  PLEASE HELP ME !!!11  for $$Derek$$  SRING BREAK IN EXCHANGE  
Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s  FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. BOB AT 1·  
TYPING AVAILABLE  country 102 looking for board  WILL TRADE 2 USC GA FOR 2  800-875-4525.  
287-4082  operator sundays 9a-2p. exper  Please sell me your ticketslll!  MIAMI ALSO NEED GAS ALL  
ienced only need apply. call  HOME GAMES TERRI X4837  NEED 2-4 AF GA'S. CALL KEVIN  
chris roberts 271·9482  Call Cathy at 273-9624.  273-1906  NEED ALL THE STANFORD TIX I  
PRAYER MEETING  CAN GET. GA's. CALL  
Thursdays@ 7:30 Siegfried Chapel ?? call Eileen x4815  GUITARISTS WANTED If you love to play the guitar and  You can save a marriage, sell me  TEXAS ALUMNI NEEDS 2·3 G.A. TICKETS TOGETHER IF POSSIBLE FOR MIAMI AND  I need 1 Purdue stud. ticket Call Heather x1333 or x1330  DENNIS X2384  
take requests, we need you to play at a SMC bonfire on Oct. 1 .  your two Miami GA's! Dave X1566.  PENN STATE. CALL BROTHER 287-0461 AFTER 6 P.M.  NEED ALL TIX!!! #1588 Kevin  
For more info, call Ellen at 284·  I need 1 Miami stud.  
4426.  I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER$$$$$  x1640 Pete  NEED TICKETS FOR PURDUE,  
SPEE·DEE WORDPROCESSING  I need 2 GA's for EVERY home  Need: PSU GA's  STANFORD OR AF. (312) 752·  
237-1949  game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  Have: Purdue, AF, Pitt GA's  5314.  
PLEASE call 284·5249 $$$$$$  Trade? Call Dan X3466  WILL TRADE MIAMI GA FOR 1  
Wanted a superior english student  MIAMI STUD AND 1 AF STUD  
NOTRE DAME COUNCIL ON  to help me with my papers and  271-8749  WANTED: 2 MIAMI TICKETS.  
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS  reports. 277-5934 $$  TOP DOLLAR. 404·923-4707.  
DEVELOPMENT  Need 1 student Penn State ticket  I HAVE:  
for a future Domer. Please call  2 STANFORD GA's  NEED 2 PAIRS OF STANFORD  
ORIENTATION MEETING  HELP! I need PURDUE stud tix.  Pat at 273-9367.  2 PURDUE GA's  GAs AND 1 STUD  4 MIAMI GA's are what I need.  
Call Ann x3445.  4 AIR FORCE GA's  WILL TRADE OR SELL 1 MIAMI  So give them to me, please. Pete  
SEPT. 19-20  & 2 NAVY (meadowlands) GA's  STUD 271-8749  x1745  
7:00-8:00 PM  TO TRADE FOR :  
HAYES-HEALY ROOM 220  6 MIAMI GA's & 2 STUD  
SEE YOU THEREI  UNIQUE POSITION-GRAPHIC  CALL SALLY x4999  HELP! MY PARENTS ARE  I NEED 1 PENN STATE TICKET.  
ARTIST AND RECEPTIONIST.  BIG DOLLARS!  COMING All THE WAY FROM  CALL BILLY · x1817.  
MUST HAVE MAC COMPUTER  NEED STUDENT TIX  MONTANA AND NEED  
JUST SAY NO!  KNOWLEDGE.QUARK, '  ALL HOME GAMES  Need 1 Stanford  2 STANFORD GA'S  
Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's  MICROSOFT, PLUS OTHER.  CALL 1597  Bobx2384  CALL RENZV AT X1945  
Books, comer of NO ave. &  PART TIME, HOURS FLEXIBLE.  TRADE 2 STAN OR AF GA'S FOR  
Howard. 233·2342  CALL 273-2090. 9·5. CLOSE TO  2 PRDU GA'S 'TIM"1407  
NOTRE DAME.  URGENT! I need 1 Miami, 5  I NEED MICH ST tixs.272-6306  

 Stanford Tix. STUD or GA. David  I have GA's to all home games +  
LOST/FOUND  Keyboard player for N.D. Hockey  at x4115.  Navy and Mich. State. looking to trade tickets and/or cash for Miami  Need Miami GA's or Married  $$ Need 1 Miami stud tic $$  
games. Contact Hockey Office:  GA's. Interested?  Pairs  $$$$ #2894 $$$$  
239-5050  I need 4 Stanford and 4 Air Force  Call Hugh at 233-6740.  Good$$$$  
LOST BLUE NOTRE DAME  tix. Call Pat x 233-7328.  Mark 232-4589  
FIESTA BOWL HANDBAG  Christmas Help  
AT MISHIANA REGIONAL  National firm has many openings  Got Miami and other stud tix  
AIRPORT -CONTAINED  available. $8.10  ROAD TRIP!!!!II  HELP! NEED STUD. OR GA FOR  KEVEN 1588  
CHAMPIONSHIP RING,MONEY,  starting. Gain great business  Need 2 Air Force GA's call  4 Mich. State GA's lor sale or  STANFORD GAME. CALL  
AND IMPORTANT PAPERS.  experience . Weekends and  Brian C. at x3546 or x3540  trade. Call Hugh at 233-6740.  LAURIE 2822.  
PLEASE CALL TONY AT  evenings available.call271·8699  Parents coming for NO-Air Force  
X1970.  Game. Need to buy general  
FOR RENT  HELP!!! I DESPERATELY NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. STUDS OR GA'S.$$$  NEEDED-4 GA TIX FOR PENN GAME-CALL X3635·MORE$$$$  Needed: 1 AF (St) Mike T. x1182  admission tickets. Call Mary Lou or Ray 234·3873. Would like to  
Lost: Woman's traditional  CALL NICOLE 234-8882  IF THEY ARE IN SAME SECTION  buy them now!!!  
white gold ND class ring with  
blue stone. $100 Reward. Please  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Need Purdue Tickets  
call Katie Basinski at X4559.  219-291-7153.  call Joe or Glenn x3320  NEED PENN ST STUD TIX  
WANT 2 PURDUE GA'S  I Need 2 GA's lor Purdue and  X1581-TOM  
DON'T BE A ­CALL MIKE  Penn State-ANY PRICE call Julie  
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED  AT 2344  4906  
LOST: GOLD ROPE CHAIN  FOR TURTLE CREEK APTS  Will trade STANFORD or  NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S  
SAT. NIGHT BETWEEN ZAHM  NON-SMOKER  PURDUE stus for PENN ST stus  CALLALEX X1068  
t· ·'  HALL AND D2. GREAT PERSONAL VALUE, PLEASE  273-9406 OR 283-2805  NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S  I NEED 2 STUDENT TICKETS  or GA. Will also buy outright. PLEASE CALL FRANK 288-1264  need 1 stud. tick. to Miami!  
RETURN IF FOUND.  WILL EVEN PAY $. CALL  FOR PURDUE AND STANFORD  have other tick. & $.call for  
271-9312  CONDO FOR RENT: Stanford Gm  FRANKSTAR AT 289·4860  PRICE FLEXIBLE CALL SARAH  deal.234-5840 John  
"Sleeps 6, Ktch, 2 Btrm, etc."  4870  NEED 1 AIR FORCE  
1BiockO.C.  STD. TICKET  
CALL DENNIS x2097  NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S  New York Attorney needs Stanford  
LOST!!! LOST!!! LOST!!!  CALL KARIN x1992  MIAMI TIX WANTED  CALL PAUL 1121  GAs. Will pay big $$$  
RAY-BAN ARISTA  $ STUDENT OR GA $  Call Paul at201-334·3804 or  
OUTDOORSMAN GOLD  1 EFFICIENCY APT. & 1 ONE·  (201) 334·3804  Nancy at 277-2942.  
FRAMED SUNGLASSES AT THE  BDRM. APT. DOWNTOWN SO.  PLEASE. I really, really need  I need dos PURDUE tix, stud or  
MICH. GAME. VERY SPECIAL  BEND. CALL RALPH 231-2391  PURDUE GA'S. I got lots of  GA Marty@ 289·1015  
TO ME-GIFT FROM  BEFORE 8 AM OR 616-695-3786.  MONEY. Call Sean x1723  09121  PLEASE help me convince my  
SOMEONEIIIII WIL OFFER  09/24  father that all the tuition  
REWARDI CALL DIANA 284· 5484.  FOR SALE  HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will pay$$$$$$$$! Call Matt X1055  I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S PLEASE CALL ALLISON 289-8915  SELLING 2AIR F NEED  he has shelled out over the past lor years has been worth it!! I need  
1 STAN. GA  3 STANFORD G.A.'S!  
FOUND: MALE WATCH AT  EITHER OR BOTH  Christine X4012  
MICHIGAN TAILGAITER 9/16 CALL JOSE 283·1985  COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 19" COLOR TV, TWO  NEED GA'S & STUD. TIX TO ALL  NEED 3 G.A.'S TOGETHER FOR PURDUE OR AIR FORCE.  MATT 273·9602  Wanted: Purdue, Air Force, and  
SEMESTERS $110, ONE  HOME GAMES -ESP. PURDUE  CALL MATT AT 288·7568  Miami student tix.  
SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO  CALL BETH 233·9226  NEED 1 STANFORD STUD.  Call John x1630.  
FOUND ON WHITE FIELD:  SEMESTERS $110, ONE  x1946 SEAN  
KEYCHAIN WITH 2 ROOM KEYS.  SEMESTER $80.  
CALL LORI AT 284·5017 TO  COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272·  I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GAs and  Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or  
IDENTIFYII!  5959.  stud tix for any game. Todd x1747  GA Please call Matt X3024  HELP!!! NEED 4 PURDUE  
H E L Pl!l  GA'S!  
BIKE & COUCH.272·6306  
If anyone lost a key on one of the  Need 2 GAs for Penn State  For Sale:  NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY  CALL KATIE AT  
buses for the Junior Cruise, it can  Call 284-4060  Tickets for all home games  WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS  X1297  
be identified and picked up in the  TICKETS FOR TRADE:  call Joe X1688  PAYING TOP $$$$$  
olffice from 3-5 on Mon-Thurs.  I GIVE YOU TWO AIR FORCE GA  I Need 2 Miami Tickets  Monday · Thursday 3:30-6:30 PM  CALL JEFF@277-3998  ••• I need 2 Stanford GAs ••• Call Cory, x2718  
YOU GIVE ME TWO MIAMI GA  Students or GAs  
t I I"  LOST: Colliagte Football on White Field last weekend. The name on the side is "TATE" Please call Chad at x1852.  I GIVE YOU LOTS OF MONEY!II TIMx1421 FOR SALE 1 miami stud. best offer. x3487  Will Pay Top Dollar Call Eric x2095 NEED 1 MIAMI TICKET Ill  "I need 6" PURDUE GAs Ted x1942  I need two Stanford GA's BAD!! Parents will take back tuition if I don't come throughllllllll Call Mike X3506  NEED TWO AIR FORCE STUD. TICKETS CALL JIM X1185  
CALL JOE X2053  NEED TIXIII 2 GA'S FOR  
lost my keysll277·8379  WANTED: 2 GAs to the  PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN.  I NEED STANFORD GA'S  
1980 PONTIAC GRAND PRIX  STANFORD game. Call E.J. at  TONY X1590  CALL ERIK AT X2088.  
VERY GOOD CONDITION  272-4715.  
WANTED  AUTOMATIC, AMIFM STEREO CASSETTE, POWER  NEW YORK ATTORNEY NEEDS MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR  PENN STATE TIX; need 3 GA's  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
BRAKES/STEERING. $895. 289­ GA. WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL  Have 2 Air Force GAs  and 2 studs; call Money x3374  NEED STANFORD and MIAMI  
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK  1440.  SAM AT (201)334-3804.  Need 2 Purdue GAs  TICKETS -STUD'S and GA'S  
READING BOOKS AT HOME.  Want to trade?  DESPERATELY NEED 2  Call Mary at 3816.  
CALL 615-473· 7440 EXT. B-340.  I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S  I NEED ONE MIAMI STUDENT  Jenny x1321  PURDUE GA'S FOR POOR  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE  TICKET! ill PLEASE CALL KATE  RELATIVES.  
BABYSITTER NEEDED!!  NAME GAME AND PRICE 273·  AT X4045.  CALL KEVIN X1589  SELL ME 2 GA's TO THE ND V.  
During home FB games  1364  Need 5 GAs any home game  PURDUE GAME. CALL GREG AT  
Call Steve at X1037.  Need 2 Miami TIX  Also need 1 Air Force  HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME  x1594  
Will Pay Top$  stud/GA Cathy x1321  BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S  
RIDE NEEDED: to U. of Day1on or Indiana U. any wknd this  TICKETS  Call Brett x 1416  Need 2 Purdue GA Miami GAs and Studs  CALL 273·1364 NEED MIAMI TICKETS????  Need Student Tix for Stanford big$$$$$  
semester. Will pay $$$. Call John  1111111!#####!!!!11111###1####  Mike 273·1537  Mason X2787  
x1177.  SOLVE MY PROBLEMS FOR MEl  ME TOO  
Need $$$?Sell  I NEED 6 STANFORD AND 6  Wanted 2 GA's for Air Force  
PURDUEII NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S. IF YOU CAN HELP PLEASE  your ga's to all home games. Call tom x1597.  PENN STATE GA's CALL TIM 12704 AND LEAVE A MESSAGE  AIR FORCE TIXII NEEDED 7 GAISTUD MONEY IS NO PROBLEM  4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami fans that need humbling.  big bucks paid call Mason at 2787  
CALL13074.  CALL JULIE X4975  272-8954 Amy  see CLASS/page 13  

~------------~--~----~-----------------------------------~­
Thursday, September 20, 1990 The Observer page 13 
SEC representatives leave Miami, begin talks with SC 
COLUMBIA. S.C. {AP) -Two days after journeying to Miami, Kramer is scheduled to meet with South Carolina officials as the SEC continues its search for a possible 12th member. 
"I don't have any information on time or location. I don't have anything other than confirmation that he is coming," university spokeswoman Debra Allen said Wednesday. 
Miami and South Carolina are reportedly the front runners to become the 12th member of the SEC, if the league decides to expand further after adding Arkansas this summer. 
South Carolina, which is an independent in football and a member of the Metro Conference in all other sports, has made no secret about its interest in joining the SEC or, at the least, joining an all-sports league. 
Kramer is expected to meet with interim President Arthur 
K. Smith and Athletic Director King Dixon on Thursday. Neither Smith nor Dixon could be reached immediately for comment. 
An SEC spokesman said Kramer would have no comment on the meeting with South Carolina. 
Kramer's visit had been ex­pected. Smith said in a statement Monday the commissioner was to be in 
town later in the week. 
"This is a further step in the development of mutual interest between (South Carolina) and the SEC," Smith said. "The university continues to be strongly interested in affiliating with an all-sports conference, and I am looking forward to Mr. Kramer's visit." 
Kramer's visit to Miami was characterized by President Edward Foote as a "fact-finding meeting." Kramer reportedly is coming to South Carolina to pass on information on the SEC and is not just on a fact-finding mission. 
"We take that as a good sign," Smith said Monday. 
Kramer has maintained a low profile since the SEC first began to consider expansion and is not expected to make any comment after meeting Thursday with South Carolina officials. 
"That's been consistent throughout," said Mark Whitworth, director of media relations for the SEC. "There's a lot of speculation out there. But he (Kramer) just felt like he's not going to get involved in commenting on any of the specifics." 
Generally, meetings such as Kramer will have with South Carolina involves the commissioner discussing how the conference is run and how revenues are distributed, Whitworth said. 
"It's not one of those things like, 'Oh, let's go in and see if you guys are up to snuff.' ... What the discussions would probably revolve around is that we're a presidentially run conference, this is the way we distribute our revenues {and) these are some of the figures as far as the money our schools receive from the revenue generated by the conference last year. Things like that," Whitworth said. 
"Obviously, it might give him a chance to familiarize himself with the campus and just see what's there. But it's not just to go look at the arena or look at the stadium." 
The 10 league presidents must approve any expansion, with a 75-percent affirmative vote required to add a member, Whitworth said. He said the vote to add Arkansas was unanimous. 
Whitworth said Kramer could make a recommendation to the presidents, but it is up to the presidents to m.ake the ultimate decision on whether to add a 12th team to the league. 
Kramer and the presidents have not said how many teams they would like to add, although Kramer has said he thinks it best if the SEC has an even number of teams, Whitworth said. 
Majkowski to make first QB start this weekend 
GREEN BAY, Wis. {AP) ­Quarterback Don Majkowski, who missed 45 days in a con­tract holdout, will make his first start of the season Sunday for the Green Bay Packers when they host the Kansas City Chiefs. 
Coach Lindy Infante, to no one's surprise, made the an­nouncement Wednesday. Anthony Dilweg had started the first two games as the Packers beat the Los Angeles Rams and lost to the Chicago Bears. 
Dilweg was sacked six times and his two fumbles helped the Bears beat the Packers 31-13last week. 
"I want to make one thing clear: This is not in any way, shape or form in reference to how I felt Anthony Dilweg played last week. My main concern in making the decision is that somebody might want to say I'm trying to blame what happened last week on him and that's entirely 180 degrees opposite from the truth," Infante said. 
"I thought he played pretty solid, with the exception of dropping the ball on the ground a couple of times." 
Majkowski, chosen for the Pro Bowl last season, didn't report until four days before the season opener. He signed a one-year contract with a $1.5 million base salary and incentives. 
"Don has recovered consider­ably the time he'd lost by not being here. I'm confident he's ready to go play now and be our starting quarterback," Infante said. 
Dilweg said after Sunday's loss he figured he'd have to keep winning to keep the starter's job. 
"I'd be lying to you to tell you I'm not disappointed," Dilweg said Wednesday. "I'd love an­other shot at Kansas City. 
"I had to be realistic about it. 
would have liked to have played a lot more and unfortu­nately it ended a lot earlier than I wanted it to. But you learn from this, that's all I can say. 
"They don't pay Don $1.5 mil­lion to sit on the bench," Dilweg said. "But at the same time, I think they drafted me thinking that I would play down the line and I'm going to prove them right." 
Majkowski said he isn't yet at the point where he left off last year. 
''I'll keep improving every week but I'm much improved from when I got here," he said. "It's getting easier and easier each week and I feel pretty comfortable right now." 
Timing, he said, is not the major area he's working on right now. "It's going through reads downfield and so forth," he said. 
Needed: 2 Air F. Stud.; 4 Air F. TRAVEL FREE!! $UN $PLASH JPR· Need STANFORD STUD TICKET GA; 7 Penn St. Stud. ...BUCK'S UNDERGROUND••• TOURS OFFERS THE MOST Defeated in War within 
Class 
and 2 AIR FORCE GAs. Thanks, Will trade Purdue Stud. or pay. EXCITING AND AFFORDABLE FIVE MINUTES!! I challenge AMY x3777 Colleen 272-5939 A salute to the great $PRING BREAK PACKAGES TO a re-match ... do you have the continued from page 12 SHINING CITY OF THE SOUTH: JAMAICA AND CANCUNII EARN courage to accept? 
2 Airforce GAs needed; CHEERS TO YOU, ATLANTA! FREE TRIP AND EXTRA$$$. -A"Rivaf" I need two GA's for Penn State. 1 Miami stud for sale CALL 1-800-426-7710. PSI love you! Call John at 289-1015 x284-4109 The road was long and winding, 
but now the dream is yours: Dear Phantom-How romantic! HAPPY 19TH PAL! I 
NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TIXIII Great ATLANTA, host of the 1996 The Grape Road Hacienda sounds May your soul and spirit unite on Need 2 PENN ST. GA's $$ call MATT #2052 $$ NEED 2 PURDUE STUDENT SUMMER OLYMPICS! great! I'll see you at seven and this your day of birth -or whatever for dad & little bro TICKETS I!! Call Joe 1307111 don't be late!-Brunette you PLSers believe! -will sing & dance-BUCK'S is joining in the By the way, you will be chagrined if BEST OFFER, Andy@1108 $ $ $ $ $ Wanted 4 GA Tix celebration. Call for reservations: LIMITED ROOMS AVAILABLE you don't do your 19 shots! (Just 
NEEDED -I A. F. student ticket. NDvs. MIAMI 288-1351. FOR PURDUE VS ND GAME AT Kidding Mr. Lynn) We love you, Steve X1603 1-800-243-4153 JAMISON INN. CALL 277-9682 Patti! -US $ $ $ $ $ Ext 2387 -Mickey •••suCK'S FOR RESERVATIONS. UNDERGROUND••• 
................

2 MICH ST TICKETS MSU MSU MSU MSU MSU MSU TO TRADE FOR I need one Penn State GA I need Penn St stud tix The COFFEEHOUSE this Friday! Get psyched ladies for the roadtrip 2 TICKETS TO ANY Please call ANNE at x1704 Melinda x4852 Come hear the magnificent from HELL!! The Martin's Party HOME GAME. Need ride to and from Columbus, acoustic sounds of Platter is already in the trunk of the 
KRISTI3704 For sale or trade: MICHIGAN Ohio : 9121-9/231 David O'Connell and soon-to-be cheesy ND car. I can't %%%%%%%o/~k%%%%%%%% ST. GAs. Call 259-0539. Will help pay!! Call Laura Proto: Dave Schindler wait to get over the state fine so we o/ooko/o All offers negotiable. 284-34331 Rachel Cruz and Judy can get our Coors Party ball. 
WANTED -TIX NEED MIAMI GAS/STUDS BAD! Hutchinson ONE MORE DAYII! MIA-N.D. GAME CALL 2546 OR 3028 PLEASE I WANTED and Heather Finley We're on a quest for T-beef. BIG T­CALL 800-323-7687 Stanford and Miami tix Irish Music Thursday at Friday, at 9:00 in the Basement of beef, that is. -KT 
277-7684 Club 23, 9:00 -?.? with ..... Grace. Be There! 
.. 

mo Sheamaisin $$ALUM NEEDS 4 TICKETS$$ I NEED 4 PENN STATE GA'S COFFEEHOUSE• Looking for a safe, effective & FOR STANFORD, CALL BUY, SELL OR TRADE AIR REALLY BAD. I'LL DO ALMOST It means my "little Jimmy• morally acceptable means of COLLECT (416) 851-0817, AFTER FORCE GA TIX FOR STANFORD ANYTHING TO GET THEM, EVEN and sounds like STEPAN CENTER planning a family? Classes start 
8:00 P.M., RENO. GAME. PAY CASH. LOTS OF IT. SO CALL COURT TIME scheduling Sept. 27, 6:30P.M. For more info: CALL LAUREN 273-1380 FLO AT x1696. THE HAY MACHINE meeting will be held 237-7401 
THURSDAY, SEPT. 27 in NEED 4 STANFORD TIX. CALL Iii' bro' needs stud. tx-all home MIAMI GA FOR SALE Montgomery Theatre, DENNIS COLLECT 914-294-6546 games. 277-8379 FACE VALUE LaFortune. AFTER 6 PM. All groups wanting to reserve 
REPOSSESS.:D VA & HUD 
NEED PURDUE TIX! I NEED 2 PURDUE GA's Get your attention? court time must attend this 
HOMES !i-,.ailoble from governmen
CALL 273 1380 FOR KAREN call GREG at 1416 f don't have a Miami ticket, but f do meeting. Call Student 
for Sl without crecft d!edl. You
I NEED TENNESSEE TICKETS need a ride to Chicago on Sat. Activities, 239-7308 by I HAVE $$$AND STANFORD 9/22. Can leave after 12 Tuesday, Sept. 25 to RSVP 
repir. Also tax delinquent 
STUD TICKET. CALL ROBERT NEED STANFRD & P ST. STUD MUST SELL ONE PURDUE noon/share gas. for this meeting. 
foredos.es. ~ (805) 682-7555 
4057 TIX CALL PAUL X1945 STUD. AND ONE AIR FORCE 
Ext. H-3269 for repo list yoll' oreo. 
STUD. BY FRIDAY! PLEASE Christine 283-4011 NEED PURDUE ST. TIX #2287 CALLx3745 
••••Happy Birthday••••• WILL TRADE SIX MIAMI GA'S dave glenn does dishes FOR SIX BETTER MIAMI GA'S FOR SALE 4 Mich STATE tix 
Hey CHAKA KAHN II 
SEIZED CARS, trucks,
PLUS$$$ MIAMI, MIAMI, MIAMI ASAP x1720 Yes you Jen Callahan ALSO NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S 
boats, 4wheelers,
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & Happy Birthday dude! 
FOR$$$ NEED 1 STUD TIX Will trade 2 AirForce GA's for STANFORD CALL 273-1364 Remember "Tradi On I!" 
motorhomes, by FBI, IRS,
CALL GREG 288-9075 2 Stanford GA's. Dan x1666 Love, the ·o· Club 
DEA. Available your area
X2481 PAUL I need MIAMI TIX 
now. Call (805) 682-7555 
HOW COULD YOU MISS THEI NEED 3 AIR FORCE G.A.'S OR ##################### -Chris 234-8891 


Ext. C-2743.
BIGGEST AND BEST TRIP OF2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUD. WILL PAY NEED MANY PENN ST. STUD TIX YOUR N.D. CAREER? ND vs USC$$$$$$. CALL JOHN X1177. PLEASE CALL BILL AT 3349 

##################### -CALL 239-7308
PERSONALS ) 
hiag 

GET TOP$
sdgf

NEED 1 PURDUE STUD. NEED TICKETS(GA'S) FOR AIR JOHN X3636 
FOR YOUR 
FORCE. CALL JULIA X3505 BE ANIMALISTIC: VISIT SEA 
WORLD & SAN DIEGO ZOO!  OVERSEAS AND  
CALL 239-7308.  (RUISESHIPS EMPLOYMENT. Many positions. Work Month-Home Month. Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. 5-1912  
HOB KNOB IN BEVERLY HILLS & HOLLYWOOD! CALL 239-7308.  
BACKGAMMON PARTNER  
NEEDED 233-3059 JERRY  

NOTRE DAME 
N.D ALUM HAS 2 PURDUE GA HEY YO, WE'RE TALKING TO A Certain $$$MILLIONAIRE$$$ TIX. WILL TRADE FOR 2 YOU!II WE KNOW YOU WANT TO 
FOOTBALL TICKETS 
Needs 2 AF GA's and 4-8 STAN or STANFORD OR PENN STAT TIX. GO HOME A DAY EARLY AND PURDUE GA's CALL Pat x1900 CALL JOHN 201-764-6313. SEE YOUR HTH (OR MOMMY 
1-800-733-8499 
AND DADDY) AT FALL BREAK. 
ASK FOR PAUL
HELP ME RELAX -SELL ME 5 SO SELL US YOUR FREAKIN' PLEASE HELP! I need 4 Miami tix, VARIOUS STANFORD GA'S!$!$1 MIAMI TICKETS!!! WE'LL PAY BIG stud or GA-call Amy at 3757 or CALL JOANIE X2800 ASAPIII BUCKSIII CALL MIKE OR CHRIS 
ALL SALES 
Peggy 3831. ATX 1779. 
CONFIDENTIAL 
r.­
Scoreboard 

Thursday, September 20, 1990
page 14 
BASEBALL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
All Times EDT AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division Toronto Boston Detroit Cleveland Milwaukee Baltimore New York West Division Oakland Chicago Texas California Seattle Kansas City Minnesota NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division Pittsburgh New York Montreal Chicago Philadelphia  w 82 81 72 70 69 67 60 w 95 86 78 74 73 69 67 w 85 83 79 71 69  L 68 69 77 80 80 81 89 L 54 63 70 74 76 79 83 L 64 64 68 77 79  Pet .547 .540 .483 .467 .463 .453 .403 Pet .638 .577 .527 .500 .490 .466 .447 Pet . 570 .565 .537 .480 .466  GB 1 91/2 12 121/2 14 21 1/2 GB 9 161/2 201/2 22 251/2 281/2 GB 1 5 131/2 151/2  L10 z-8-2 2·8 6-4 z-8·2 3-7 4·6 3·7 L10 6·4 z-7-3 z-7-3 5-5 z-5-5 3·7 2·6 L10 z-3-7 z-6-4 7-3 6-4 z-5-5  Streak Won6 Lost 1 Won3 Won3 Lost3 Won2 Lost 5 Streak Won 1 Lost 1 Lost1 Lost3 Won 1 Lost 1 Won1 Streak Won 1 Lost2 Won4 Lost1 Won3  BASKETBALL National Basketball Association LOS ANGELES CLIPPER5-Signed Ken Bannister, center, to a two-year contract. Signed Clinton Smith and Steve Key, guards. NEW JERSEY NET&-Agreed to terms NFL STANDINGS AMERICAN CONFERENCE East w L Miami 2 0 Buffalo New England N.Y.Jets Indianapolis 0 2 Central Cincinnati 2 0 Cleveland Pittsburgh 1 Houston 0 2 West L.A. Raiders 2 0 Denver Kansas City 1 San Diego 0 2 Seattle 0 2 NATIONAL CONFERENCE  with Tate George, guard. on a five-year contract. FOOTBALL National Football League BUFFALO BILL&-Waived Larry Kinnebrew, fullback. Re-signed Rick Tuten, T Pl:t. PF PA 0 1.000 57 31 0 .500 33 40 0 .500 40 41 0 .500 44 46 0 .000 24 42 0 1.000 46 36 0 .500 34 27 0 .500 23 22 0 .000 36 67 0 1.000 31 22 0 .500 33 37 0 .500 47 45 0 .000 30 38 0 .000 13 34  punter. DETROIT LION&-Piaced Chris Spielman, linebacker, on injured reserve. Re-signed John Miller, safety. LOS ANGELES RAIDERs-Placed Mike Dyal, tight end, on injured reserve. Signed Andy Parker, tight end. MIAMI DOLPHIN&-Signed Jeff Cross, defensive end, to a two-year contract. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTs-Named Norm Pollom national scout. NEW YORK GIANTs-Placed Mark Collins, cornerback, on injured reserve. Signed Roger Brown, defensive back. NEW YORK JET&-Waived Dan Murray, linebacker. Signed Carl Howard, defensive back. PHILADELPHIA EAGLE&-Piaced Mike Pitts, defensive tackle, on injured reserve. Signed Kenny Jackson. wide receiver. SAN DIEGO CHARGERs-Placed Billy Ray Smith, linebacker, on injured reserve. Signed Steve Hendrickson, linebacker. SAN FRANCISCO 49ER&-Piaced Martin Harrison, defensive end, on injured reserve. Signed Jim Fahnhorst, linebacker . HOCKEY National Hockey League CHICAGO BLACKHAWK&-Announced  
St. Louis West Division Cincinnati Los Angeles San Francisco  66 w 83 79 76  83 L 65 69 73  .443 Pet .561 .534 .510  19 GB 4 7112  z-3·7 L10 4·6 6-4 z-5-5  Lost4 Streak Lost2 Won2 Lost 1  East N.Y. Giants Dallas Phoenix Washington  w 2 1  L 0 1  T 0 0 0 0  Pl:t. 1.000 .500 .500 .500  PF 55 24 23 44  PA 27 42 52 26  the retirement of Darren Pang, goaltender. PITTSBURGH PENGUIN&-Assigned Jock Callander, Mitch Wilson, Mark Major and Jason Smart, forwards; Rob Dopson and Chris Clifford, goalies; and Mike Marsh and Scott Shaunessy, defensemen; to  
San Diego  70  77  .476  12 1/2  7-3  Won4  Philadelphia  0  2  0  .000  41  50  Muskegon of the International Hockey  
Houston  68  81  .456  151/2  5-5  Won 1  Central  League.  
Atlanta  60  89  .403  231/2  2·8  Won 1  Chicago  2  0  0  1.000  48  13  SOCCER  
z-denotes first game was a win AMERICAN LEAGUE  Detroit Green Bay  0 0  .500 .500  42 49  52 55  National Professional Soccer League CHICAGO POWER-Announced Ron  
Wednesday's GarMS Late GarMS Not Included Oakland 7, Chicago 3  Minnesota Tampa Bay West  0 0  .500 .500  53 52  27 56  Bergstrom has purchased the team. Named Pato Margetic.coach. RESULTS  
Cleveland 6, Milwaukee 3  San Francisco  2  0  0  1.000  39  25  
New York 7, Toronto 6 Ba~imore 8, Boston 4  Atlanta L.A. Rams  1  1  0 0  .500 .500  61 59  48 50  Monday, September 17  
Kansas City at Minnesota, (n) Texas at Seattle, (n)  New Orleans SUnday's Games  0  2  0  .000  15  45  Men's soccer 6, Valparaiso 0  
Detroit at California, (n) Thursday's GanES  Detroit 21, Atlanta 14 Miami 30, Buffalo 7  Tuesday, September 18  
Cleveland (Swindell11·8) at New York (Eiland 0·1), 7:30p.m. Chicago (Hibbard 13·8) at Seattle (Hanson 15·9), 10:05 p.m.  Chicago 31, Green Bay 13 New York Jets 24, Cleveland 21  No sports scheduled  
Only games scheduled  New England 16, Indianapolis 14 los Angeles Rams 35, Tampa Bay 14  Wednesday, September 18  
NATIONAL LEAGUE Tuesday's GarMS San Francisco 5, Cincinnati 3  Phoenix 23, Philadelphia 21 Minnesota 32, New Orleans 3 Cincinnati 21, San Diego 16  Detroit 2, Men's soccer 0 Women's soccer 2, St. Joseph's 0  
Los Angeles 6, Atlanta 2 Montreal 4, New York 3  New York Giants 28, Dallas 7 Los Angeles Raiders 17, Seattle 13  SPORTS CALENDAR  
Chicago 8, Pittsburgh 5  San Francisco 26, Washington 13  
San Diego 8, Houston 1  Pittsburgh 20, Houston 9  Thurday, September 20  
Philadelphia 6, St. Louis 3  Monday's Game  
Wednesday's GarMS  Denver 24, Kansas City 23  No sports scheduled  
Late Game Not Included  SUnday, Sept. 23  
Pittsburgh 8, Chicago 7  Dallas at Washington, 1 p.m.  Friday, September 21  
Montreal at New York, ppd., rain  Indianapolis at Houston, 1 p.m.  
Atlanta 5, San Francisco 1  Kansas City at Green Bay, 1 p.m.  Men's soccer at Michigan State, 4 p.m.  
Houston 5, Cincinnati 2  Miami at New York Giants, 1 p.m.  Women's soccer at Michigan State, 2 p.m.  
Philadelphia 8, St. Louis 4  Minnesota at Chicago, 1 p.m.  Men's tennis hosts Tom Fallon Invitational,  
San Diego at Los Angeles, (n)  New England at Cincinnati, 1 p.m.  9p.m.  
Thursday's GarMS  Phoenix at New Orleans, 1 p.m.  Volleball at Rhode Island Tournament  
Montreal (Barnes 0-0 and Nabholz 5-0) at New York  San Diego at Cleveland, 1 p.m.  
(Fernandez 9-13 and Viola 19-9), 2, 1 :05 p.m.  Atlanta at San Francisco, 4 p.m.  Saturday, September 22  
Pittsburgh (Walk 5-5) at Chicago (Kramer 0·2), 2:20p.m.  Philadelphia at los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m.  
San Francisco (LaCoss 6·3) at Atlanta (Smoltz 13·9), 5:40p.m.  Pittsburgh at Los Angeles Raiders. 4 p.m.  Volleyball at Rhode Island Tournament  
Cincinnati (Char~on 12·7) at Houston (Scott9-13), 8:35p.m.  Seattle at Denver, 4 p.m.  
Philadelphia (Mulholland 8·9) at St. Louis (B.Smith 8·8), 8:35p.m.  Detroit at Tampa Bay, 8 p.m.  Sunday, September 23  
San Diego (Benes 10·8) at Los Angeles (R.Martinez 18-6), 10:35 p.m.  Monday, Sept. 24  
Buffalo at New York Jets, 9 p.m.  Men's soccer at Marquette, 1 p.m.  
Women's soccer at Marquette, 10:45 a.m.  

ELEDMAJORS MEETING MANDATORY 
FOR ALL CURRENT AND NEW STUDENTS OF THE DEPARTMENT 
MON., SEPT 24 6:30-10:00 p.m. CARROLL AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S 
ATTENTION ALL CHICAGO TRIB SUBSCRIBERS! WE GOOFED!! 
IN ERROR WE OVER-CHARGE ON SUBSCRIPTION RATES THE NEW RATES SHOULD BE AS FOLLOWS: 
1st sem.  2ndsem.  
Daily and Sunday  27.93  27.61  
Daily only  16.88  17.71  
Sunday only  13.00  12.00  

Those who have paid IN ADVANCE by check or cash will receive a refund in the mail. Those who paid by credit card will have the difference credited Any questions City News 232-3205 Our apologies for any inconvenience 

Thursday, September 20, 1990 
Drabek's 20th win timely for Pirates 
CHICAGO (AP) -Doug Drabek became the National League's first 20-game winner and Barry Bonds hit his 30th and 31st home runs as the Pittsburgh Pirates ended a six­game losing streak, beating the Chicago Cubs 8-7 Wednesday. 
The victory increased the Pirates' lead to one game over second-place New York in the National League East. The scheduled game between Montreal and the Mets at Shea Stadium was postponed by rain. 
Drabek (20-6) allowed seven hits and five runs while striking out six in 7 1-3 innings. He is Pittsburgh's firs{ 20-game winner since John Candelaria was 20-5 in 1977. 
Bonds' first homer, a solo shot, came with two out in the fifth. He hit his second leading ofT the seventh. It was the ninth time he has hit two homers in a game in his career. 
Bonds became the first Pirates player and the eighth player in NL history to have 30 homers and 30 stolen bases in a season. He stole his 49th base in the third inning. His father, Bobby, was a member of the 30-30 club a record five times. 
Braves 5, Giants 1 
Rookie Dave Justice hit his 26th homer and drove in three runs as Atlanta beat San Francisco, dealing the Giants' hopes of catching Cincinnati another blow. 
The defending NL champion Giants have lost five of their last six games, and entered the night trailing the first-place Reds by 7 112 games in the West. Cincinnati played at Houston in a night game. 
Justice drove in a run with a double in a two-run first inning off starter Kelly Downs (1-2) and homered ofT reliever Trevor Wilson in the seventh following a double by Jeff Treadway. It was Justice's 18th home run in his last 44 games. 
A's 7, White Sox 3 

The Chicago White Sox won most of the head-to-head battles, but the Oakland Athletics are winning the war. 
Dave Stewart won his 21st game and Mark McGwire hit his 38th home run on Wednesday as the A's beat Chicago 7-3 on Wednesday snapping a six­game losing streak at home against the White Sox. 
"More often that not, when Stew faces a club with a lot of momentum going, he comes in and shuts them down," Oakland manager Tony La Russa said. 
The victory reduced Oakland's magic number to clinch the American League West to five. Oakland leads Chicago by nine games with 13 to play. 
Chicago's previous success at Oakland this season gave the White Sox an 8-5 edge in the season series against the A's. 
"They have the shouting rights; they beat us for the season," La Russa said. "Hopefully we'll have something else to shout about." 
Blue Jays 7, Yankees 6 

Surging Toronto moved into first place in the American League East and matched their longest winning streak of the season at six by beating New York while Boston was losing to Baltimore. 
Toronto, which hadn't been in first place alone since July 30, won all three against New York and completed its first-ever home series sweep against the Yankees. 
Junior Felix's three-run homer, his 13th home run of the season, put Toronto ahead 6-0 in the fourth, and the Blue Jays made it 7-1 in the fifth. Hensley Meulens hit an RBI double and Jim Leyritz followed with a three-run homer in the Yankees' sixth to make it 7-5 before Roberto Kelly singled home a run in the New York seventh. 
Orioles 8, Red Sox 4 
Slumping Boston dropped out of first place for the first time since July 30 as Sam Horn hit a three-run homer for Baltimore. 
Boston's sixth loss in seven games, coupled with Toronto's victory, left the Red Sox one game behind the Blue Jays. Each team has 12 games left, including three against each other in Boston. The Red Sox 
MACRI'S DELl IN EAST LANSING Notre Dame-Michigan State Pre Game-Post Game 1£
~o"ii Food and Beverage Specials ,. ~ Fri and Sat 11am to 11pm ~' Sunday 12pm-9pm Also order your 3 foot subs for tailgaters by Thursday 

MACRI'S DELl-EAST LANSING TWO MILES EAST OF CAMPUS 
1937 W. GRAND RIVER AVE. AT MARSH ROAD OKEMOS, Ml 
NEXT DOOR TO FRANK'S NURSERY, ACROSS FROM MERIDIAN MALL 
led Toronto by 6 1/2 games on Sept. 4, but have lost 12 of 17 games. 
With the score tied 2-2, Steve Finley opened the Baltimore fifth with a single. Cal Ripken drew a one-out walk before Horn hit a 1-2 pitch from Greg Harris (13-8) into the front row of the right field bleachers. 
Mike Greenwell hit his 12th home run in the sixth for the Red Sox, but the Orioles made it 7-3 in the bottom of the inning on Chris Hoiles' double, an error on Wade Boggs and Finley's RBI single. 
Indians 6, Brewers 3 
Rookie Jeff Manto homered, tripled and singled and Doug Jones set a team record with his 38th save as the Indians beat Milwaukee for the sixth straight time at Cleveland Stadium. 
Brook Jacoby also homered for Cleveland. winners of seven of eight games. 
Sergio Valdez (5-5), who yielded three runs and nine hits, was relieved by Jones in the ninth with runners on second and third with no outs. Jones, who had 37 saves in 1988, gave up a run-scoring bunt single to Mike Felder, but struck out two batters to escape further damage. 
Valdez is 3-0 in six starts since he was recalled from Class AAA Colorado Springs on Aug. 22. 
Jaime Navarro (7-6) lost for the first time in his last six starts, giving up five earned runs on 11 hits in 6 1-3 innings. In his previous five starts, Navarro was 4-0 with a 1.69 ERA. 
Bonds joins 30-30 club 
CHICAGO(AP)-Barry Bonds of the Pittsburgh Pirates hit his 30th home run of the season on Wednesday, reaching two milestones at the same time. 
Bonds homered in the fifth inning at Chicago to become the first player in Pittsburgh history to hit 30 homers and steal 30 bases in a single sea­son. He stole his 30th base on July 22. 
Bonds' father, Bobby, is a five-time member of the 30-30 club. They are the only father and son to have accomplished the feat. Barry Bonds is the eighth National Leaguer to join the 30-30 club. 
Bonds, who stole his 49th base earlier in the game, also homered m the seventh -No. 31, tying him with Bobby Bonilla for the team lead. It's the first time in the team's his­tory that two players have hit more than 30 home runs in the same year. 



Roger6fMe \ 
"'NE OF TilE YEAR'S 10 llfSf! TWO JUBILANT 11IIJMIIS UP FOR 1liiS TRIUMPHANT COMFDY. AN AMERICAN CLASSIC. )
EASILY ONE OF TilE MOST EN'Jf.RTAINING FlLMS OF TilE YEAR. 
IT HAS ACHANCI AT BFJNG NOMINATED FOR ONE OF ,/
TilE BEST PICTIJRES OF TilE YEAR." /
_,,sJ...I&fb.-r• ----~ 
~R ·-.::~:...;:~~.:....:::..5~ 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY 6:30, 8:15, 10:00 




r The Observer Thursday, September 20, 1990
page 16 
ICC takes hard line toward future bidding wars 
TOKYO (AP) The International Olympic Committee launched a crackdown Wednesday on the free-spending campaigns of cities hoping to host the Games. Flagrant violators could be banished from the bidding. 
A day after handing a billion­dollar present to Atlanta -the centennial Olympics in 1996 ­the IOC's executive board placed strict limits on the gifts and travel that bidders can offer committee members. 
While Atlanta organizers held their first round of meetings about actually staging the Games and talked of record television and ad­vertising packages, the losers were clearing out their offices and wondering what went wrong. 
"The Olympics have become a North American event," said Jean Walsh, communications director of Melbourne's bid. Atlanta will be the fourth North American Olympics since 1980. 
Men 
continued from page 20 
The second half remained scoreless for a fairly long time, although the Irish did have sev­eral chances to score. Their best opportunity came when Kenyon Meyer's header was saved by Titan goalie Dan Koontz. 
Detroit pretty much wrapped up the game with a goal at the 
67:41 mark. Danny Babic hit a crossing shot that David Poniatowski headed into the goal from a yard out, and the Titans were leading 2-0 with just over 20 minutes left to play. 
The Irish had other chances to score, but couldn't seem to put the ball in the net. With 12 minutes left in the game, Mario Tricoci nailed a free kick that flew over the wall of Detroit players, hooking towards the outer post of the goal. Unfortunately for the Irish, Detroit keeper Dan Koontz made a great save, depriving them of a score. 
Neither team was able to mount much of an attack from that point on, and the jubilant Detroit bench stormed the field after the referee blew the whis­tle to end the game. 
"We're very disappointed. We didn't give it that Fighting Irish spirt," said sophomore de­fender Mario Tricoci. "We're their biggest game, and they came out and played with in­tensity." 
Coach Berticelli was frus­trated with his team's attitude for the game. "We weren't ready to play," he said. "I don't know why. Maybe it's a letdown after the Valparaiso game. 
The intensity level is obviously something the Irish need to work on. "We get motivated against top 20 teams, but we don't have that same motivation versus teams we should beat, and that's the sign of a young team," said Berticelli. 
"We have to gain some matu­rity," Berticelli continued. "We need to realize that every game is as important as the next." 
That is a lesson Berticelli's troops need to learn if they~ hope to avoid being the team 
Nevertheless, the Australian city announced Wednesday that it would try again for the Games of 2000. 
Billy Payne, the head of the Atlanta bid, said the White House had called to arrange a congratulatory meeting with President Bush in Washington next week. 
"I think he sees it as a chance to reaffirm the American commitment to the Olympic movement," Payne said. Bush made a videotaped appeal to the IOC on behalf of the Atlanta bid Tuesday. 
From now on, each bidder can invite each IOC member to visit the city once. Gifts to members are limited to a total of $200. 
Unlike previous attempts to hold down expenses, the board this time included punishment in the new rules. It will publicize violations it discovers and -if the bidding crime is bad enough -throw the candidate out. 
"We are not trying to be 
policemen, we will not turn into the CIA or the FBI," Francois Carrard, the IOC's secretary general, said. "But there should be acceptable rules. We are not going to check, but we are not naive. And if it's known that they have broken the rules, we will publicize it to· all of the Olympic movement." 
Carrard said a bidder's expulsion would be used as a last resort. 
There have been reports of numerous first-class flights to faraway destinations and lavish presents, induing gold medallions and jeweled necklaces, as the lists of bidders have grown in recent years. 
Carrard and Jim Worrall, a retired IOC member from Canada, said the problem started in 1986, when 13 cities were bidding for the 1992 Summer and Winter Games. Diamonds, fur coats and other luxury items were said to be changing hands then. 
"Those campaigns showed believe the money can be there was an almost-traitorous better spent developing sport." effort by some cities," Carrard The IOC also took the first said. "This time, things were step toward controlling the improved. But when you have growth of the Summer Games. six big cities in the bidding, as It adopted a new charter that we did this year, things have a says sports must be played in way of escalating." at least 7 5 countries on four 
The scope of the problem continents for men and 40 was illustrated by Bob Scott, countries on three continents head of Manchester's for women to be part of the unsuccessful bid. Manchester's Olympic schedule. The limits $5.7 million bid budget was a now are 50 countries on three fraction of the other cities'. continents for men and 35-3 
"We spent no money for women. 
whatsoever on gifts, which The new limits take effect for didn't stop members from the Games of 2000. coming up to me and thanking me for the gifts they received," The charter revision, headed Scott said. by Worrall, took eight years, 
Princess Anne, one of and the copy now goes to Britain's IOC members, said international federations and Manchester's strategy had national Olympic committees. been correct, even though it was eliminated on the second "This is no total revolution. It round with just five votes. is a restructuring of the 
"I am in the habit of sending document that is readable and (the gifts) all back, and that workable," Carrard said. has created a busy task for the The session also elected people with me -a rather Kevan Gosper of Australia as a steady stream," she said. "We vice president, filling a new chose not to do that and position. 
Tim Moses Computer Science Vanderbilt University 
"Macintosh practically eliminates the need to keep manuals next to my computer, because­regardless ofwhich program I'm using­!can open, close,save, and print files in exactly 
the same way And you can·t say that about any other computer. "Tcx:iay lots ofother computers are attempting 
to look and work like aMacintosh, but it"s just not possible.They're tm fundamentally different to begin with.This may sound alittle strange, but comparing aMacintosh to other computers 
;~f~J~;;;,li~o~~~?.E!~~~R~~w 
makeup, it's still an orange. "It·s funny-Iwork at the Vanderbilt computer store and I've seen lot'i ofpeople sv.itch from other com· 
puters to Macintosh, but I've neverseen anybcx:iy v.ith aMacintosh 
switch to another computer." 
Why do people love Macintosh'? Ask them. 
that showed up last night, and} instead play like the national­
caliber team that played N.C.
( 
State and St. Louis just a few days ago. e 1990 Apple Computer.lnc Appte, the AppJe logo, and Macm1osh are reo•saentd trademarks ot Apple Computer, Inc 
Thursday, September 20, 1990 The Observer page 17 
SPORTS BRIEFS An additional 150 tickets for Saturday's Michigan State game will go on sale today at the Gate 10 Box Office in the JACC. The tickets will cost $18 and are available to students with a student ID. There is a two-ticket minimum and tickets will be sold on a flrst-come, first-served basis. 
The Hapkido Club meets Tues. and Thurs. at 8:30 p.m. in Rm. 219 Rockne. Learn self-defense and sparring techniques. For more information, call Ron at x3504. Beginners welcome. 
The _Notre Dame swim team is seeking back-up timers for the sWim meets and for people with experience in the Colorado Time System. All who are interested should attend at meeting Sunday, Sept. 23rd at 1 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center classroom. 
All varsity crew team members should attend a meeting today at 7:30 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. Payment for Pittsburgh will be collected. 
Domer Runs will be Saturday, Sept. 22. Three and six mile races start at 10 a.m.; participants receive tee-shirt and pancake breakfast. Sign up at NVA. 
The Notre Dame men's volleyball team will be holding tryouts for the 1990-91 season this Sunday, Sept. 23rd, at 6 p.m. in the JACC pit (near gate 3}.Any questions, call Tom at x3697. 
The Notre Dame/St. Mary's Gymnastic Club will meet Mon.-Fri. from 4:30-6:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility at SMC. New members are welcome; no experience necessary. Questions, call Mary at 284-5341, Timmy at 3268, John at 2101 or Katie at 4877. 
Stepan Center Basketball court time scheduling meeting will be held Thursday, Sept. 27th, 6-7 p.m. in Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. All hall athletic commissioners and group representatives requiring court time must attend this meeting. Please RSVP for the meeting by Tuesday, Sept. 25th to Student Activities, 239-7308. 
Second rape charge of week filed vs. Wingate 
SAN ANTONIO (AP) -A woman filed a civil lawsuit Wednesday against San Antonio Spurs guard David Wingate alleging he sexually assaulted her in June. It was the second rape accusation against him this week. 
Wingate, 26, was charged Monday in Maryland with the rape of a 17 -year-old woman at his apartment. 
In the civil suit filed here in state district court, a 21-year­old woman alleges Wingate bought her alcoholic drinks at a San Antonio night club on June 24 and later offered her a ride. 
The suit claims that when the woman became ill, Wingate got out of the car with her down the street from his house and sexually assaulted and sodomized her. 
Afterward, the suit alleges, Wingate left the woman in a room at his house and "allowed at least two other friends of his in to rape her." The woman required medical care after the attack, the suit states. 
The woman reported the incident to police. No criminal charges have been filed. 
Police spokesman Sgt. Paul Buske refused to confirm Wednesday whether Wingate is a suspect in the case, which remains under investigation. 
"There have been some extenuating circumstances that have prevented us from completing the investigation," he said, declining to elaborate. 
Attorney Marynell Maloney, who represents the woman, on Wednesday accused the San Antonio Police Department of moving slowly with the investigation. 
"The police basically chose to slow-ball it," she said. "Unfortunately the Maryland incident may not have happened if they had acted properly." 
Spurs officials did not return a call late Wednesday from The Associated Press. 
After the charge in Maryland was filed, Spurs owner Red McCombs said contract negotiations with Wingate, a restricted free agent, were on hold. McCombs said he wasn't assuming Wingate is guilty and said team and league officials would investigate the matter. 
IF THEY LOOK LIKE COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYERS, YOU'RE ONLY SEEING. PART OF THE PICTURE. 
IICI MIBR ofthe NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH 
Toyota hooon sophoiDOCe ltiek Mirer, quarter­back ofthe Notre Dame Fiahting Jrish, as a recipient of the Toyota Leadership Award for demonstrating outstanding leadenbip ia the fields ofacademics, athletics, and community service. 
Rick Mirer will receive the Toyota Leadership Plaque, and the Uuiversity ofNotre Dame will receive 
a$1,000 contribution to its general scholarship fund. 
The example Rick Miter has set is an inspiration to us all. And as aleader in its own field, Toyota rec­ognizes the discipline and unrelenting effort.it takes to excel. So next time you watch acollege football game, look a little closer. There's a lot more talent on the field than you realize. 
"I love whatyou dofor me': 
@TOYOTA 
Keith Jackson signs with Eagles after long holdout 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -All­Pro Keith Jackson ended his 50-day holdout Wednesday and Philadelphia Eagles coach Buddy Ryan expects the tight end to play in Sunday's game against the Los Angeles Rams. 
Jackson, who refused to re­port after the Eagles declined to renegotiate the four-year, $2.1 million contract he signed two years ago, is scheduled to be at Thursday's practice. 
"I expect him to play against the Rams," Ryan said. "I think he'll bring a big lift. He'll scare the hell out of some folks. He's going to 
dictate some coverages." 
A spokesman for the Eagles (0-2) said the club had made no deal with Jackson, who was replaced in the lineup by Mickev Shuler. Jackson's agent, Gary Wichard, was not immediately available for comment. 
Harry Gamble, the Eagles' president, said Jackson would still have to pay fines totaling $114,500 -$34,000 for the two games he missed and $1,500 per day for 31 missed days of training camp. 
Ryan said having Jackson would take some pressure ofT his wide receivers, who have been double-zoned in losses to the New York Giants and Phoenix Cardinals. 
Women 
continued from page 20 
played farthest back. She alsogot forward and scored. She was just all over the field today. I'm glad to see that because I knew she had the ability, but I'm also glad to see it because she has settled into that spot well." 
Jarc readily concurred. 
"At the beginning of the sea­son, I felt that there was a lot of pressure on me. That's how I took it," admitted the sopho­more from Bay Village, Ohio. "Now I've dealt with that, and I'm starting to fit into the game. I like to go forward instead of just staying back the whole game. Also, coach has put the confidence in me to go forward. We're getting together now, and everyone is really complimentary about the job coach is doing. It's been a real positive change." 
Notre Dame nailed down the victory at the 69:21 mark of the second half. Jarc took the ball from goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga and traveled deep into the Lady Pumas' backfield be­fore passing to Marianne Giolitto. 
Giolitto in turn passed to Tasha Strawbridge, who was camped in front of the Saint Joseph's goal. Strawbridge quickly fired a shot before the charging goalie could cut it ofT. putting the Irish ahead to stay. 
"I think that we made this game close," concluded coach Petrucelli. "We weren't as pre­pared to play as we should have been. Of course, I want to say that without taking anything away from Saint Joseph's, be­cause they played hard and they stuck with us the entire game." 
·-~-~-~--~~---------------------­
r page 18 The Observer Thursday, September 20, 1990 Erickson plans crackdown on Hurricane showboats 
World will celebrate Olympic 
centennial in Atlanta in 1996 
TOKYO (AP) -Atlanta has a chance to host "the most 
': important peacetime event of the last 100 years" when its stages the centennial Olympics in 1996, the leader of the city's successful bid said Wednesday. "We have inherited an awesome responsibility," Billy Payne, president of the Atlanta Organizing Committee, said. The choice of the International Olympic Committee over five other cities in voting Tuesday night, Atlanta was ideally placed to turn the 100th birthday of the modern Games into an unparalleled panorama of the world's youth and sports, according to the 42-year-old lawyer. "The certain specialness about the centennial celebration of the Games and our excellent location will provide significant and suffi­cient· revenues so that the principle message of Olympism and sport won't be diminished by us scrambling for money all the time," Payne said. "Our commercial attractiveness does nothing but ensure that our organization will be able to spend time trying to put on the best Games ever." 
Atlanta envisions a $1 billion budget and a $154 million surplus. It also projects construction costs of as much as $500 million. 

The Olympics overall generates immense interest and income. Atlanta's victory 
Brooks 
continued from page 20 
to do in each phase of the de­fensive back situations, so I al­ways want to keep improving." 
And of his switch from run­ning back to cornerback? 
"I prefer running back, but when I think about it, and Todd (Lyght) talks about this some­times, it's better to hit than be hit. It's a good feeling hitting people, you know, giving out the punishment instead of taking it." 
This advice was not heeded by his older brother, senior Tony Brooks, who spent last year away from the team because of disciplinary 

reached a potential audience of 
4.5 billion people via television and the IOC and its member national Olympic committees will take in almost two billion dollars in marketing and TV rights fees by the time the 1992 Games in Barcelona are held. 
"The Games have become so big," Payne said. 
But he added that the Atlanta Olympics would stay true to the roots of both the city and the Games. 
"We are going to try to return the Olympic movement to its simplest form, bringing in the 
problems. He spent the following year at Holy Cross Junior College, waiting until he could be readmitted to Notre Dame. 
"I myself couldn't have been able to do it," said Reggie, with a tone of respect for his brother. "That shows great self­discipline and determination. I'm proud of him for being able to get back in from all the things he had to be up against." 
Both brothers were high school stars as running backs in their hometown of Tulsa, Okla., and now they occupy consecutive numbers on the Irish roster. Tony had been number 40, but last year Reggie wore it in his place. This year, he's given his brother's number back and taken number 41. 
J 
il 
i I 
. ! 
l ~! i ,, 
i 
SECONDARY EDUCATION MEETING MANDATORY 
For All Current And New Students Of The Department Of Education. 
Wed., Sept 26, 6:30-lO:OOp.m. Science Building Room 105 Saint Mary's 
athletes and the people of the world to a fantastic celebration of humanity," he said. "Yes, it is a sporting event. But yes, it is much, much more. 
"The centennial celebration could be the most important peacetime event in the last 100 years." 
At the same time, Payne said he wanted to avoid the impression left in much of the world of the Los Angeles Olympics being a glitzy cel­ebration of America, filled with jingoism and staged by Hollywood. 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) ­Coach Dennis Erickson, who last week told his Miami Hurricanes to temper their talk, has now cracked down on showboating. 
At least two Hurricanes "crossed the line" of good taste with dancing, prancing and posing after big plays in last Saturday's nationally televised 52-24 victory at California, Erickson said Tuesday. 
"I wasn't very proud of it, and I know our team wasn't very proud of it," the coach said during his weekly news conference. "There's a point where it's embarrassing to the program."Erickson said play­ers guilty of excessive celebrating in the future will be benched for the rest of the game and possibly longer. It was the coach's second edict concerning behavior in as many weeks. Following an opening-game loss at Brigham Young, he ordered the Hurricanes to stop making de­grading comments about opponents. 
Erickson declined to spell out guidelines as to what kind of celebrating he would permit. 
"We are going to play hard, and we are going to be excited about playing the game, and we are going to jump up and down," he said. "But there's that line that we're not going to cross at the 
"I'll always be his little brother," said Reggie. "We've come to accept each other as pretty much equals as far as athletic ability, so he's always 
How you live 
there to encourage me and I try to be there for him when he 
may save your life. 
has a bad day." 


IFllm<ll  ~®mrr  
CUP NIGHT $1.50  mrutam<DI~  
~®mlll~Ihl(l~ ~  
Collector's item!  
IFJEIIIID&W  


LUNCH 12-2 
Grads, faculty and staff only from 5-9 
University of Miami. If they do, they're just not going to play." 
Celebrating by several Hurricanes drew boos from the California fans and a shower of postgame criticism in Bay Area newspapers and on Miami radio talk shows. 
The primary targets were receiver Randal Hill and linebackers Michael Barrow and Jessie Armstead. Hill raised both arms after each of his first six catches. Barrow and Armstead shook their hips in a sack dance. 
Taunting and gloating are nothing new at Miami, but the reaction to Saturday) antics was unprecedented. 
"Some things were accepted three years ago that aren't ac­cepted now by the public," Erickson said. 
Even before the crackdown was announced, the negative response from fans and the media had convinced the ninth-ranked Hurricanes to tone down their act, Barrow said. 
"People my age pretty much understand the dances," Barrow said, "because some of the things we did, you'll see a lot of people doing in night­clubs. 
"Mostly the people that dis­agreed with it were older alumni. I can understand that, because they helped build this school. They don't want it to end up like a nightclub on the football field." 





Thursday, September 20, 1990 The Observer 
page 19 
.... 

LECTURE CIRCUIT 
ACROSS 25 Tennis 51 Works on
4:30 p.m. Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall, 
necessity galleys1 Obtain by force 

2nd floor. Karen Seegers, St. Joseph Medical Center, 
26 O'Hara's "From 53 Recent "Nutritional Needs for Women." Sponsored by Year of 6 Heavy sword 

the-" 

54 Spartan slave 
Women Committee and University Food Services. 11 Jessica or 
28 River in SE 

Lorenzo 55 Affectionate 
France 12 Molar surface 57 Private high 
29 Deadly African 

4:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge. Robert Helbling, 
14 Try to equal or school
flies

University of Utah in Salt Lake City, "The Unknown 
excel 59 Where to see
Switzerland and Its Contemporary Literature." Sponsored 31 Generosity whips
15 Where to see
by Foundation and Department of German and Russian the Swiss 330wns 
60 Paunches

Languages and Literatures. Guard 34 Musical syllable 
61 --Wences of 11 Small rodents 35 Carl E. Vuono, puppetry fame 
18 Goliath, to 62 Inventor of farm 
7 p.m. Saint Mary's, Mandeleeva Hall, Carroll e.g. 
David 39 Bear; abide machines
Audtitorium. Toney Anaya, former governor of New 
20 Metric measure 43 Mouths
Mexico, "Changing Face of Politics in the 21st Century." 
21 An anagram for 44 Cardigan 
Sponsored by Office of Minority, International, and Non­sate DOWN traditional Student Life. 46 Cote sound 
22--Tower, 1 Howl 
47 RosterChicago 2 Flatfish 
49 Rescuer24 Polynesian 

3 East Indian tree gesture dance so Knights 
4 Soak flax 5Chooses 

6 Indefinite number 7 Collection of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
MENUS 
anecdotes 8 Belfry denizens 9 Sends out 

-.t:=+::+::-1 10 Acquire 
Notre Dame 
~~~~=+;:;,.-Ei 11 Hams it up 

Tangy Grilled Chicken Breast 
t31mmature

Veal Parmesan 
animal forms 
Cheese & Vegetable Pot Pie 
14 Occurrence 
Chili 16 Approaches .......,=-+='+=-! 19 Sweep BB-:":+.:::+::.i~-!+"+'~~ 22 Teeters -=+:=+=:+:-i 23 Strew 

'--'-;:..&...;....L....J 26 Former rulers 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
80~, l FEEl S~t>.RP! I I HOI'£ 1\\E TE~CI-l~ CA\.l..5 
I'N.Cl'« T\-\1':. tM\1\ SWff(Ol/J. 
ON ME .1 I HOI'£ I GEl TO l'M R~~ FClR. AN'fn.\ING .' 
D£.lo\Ot4STAAIE f.. PR<JBLEM 
A.T n-\E BOARD! Ill 
IMI'Rf:SS £1JER'i0t-l't! 

"Hey! You! ... Yeah, that's right! I'm talkin' to you!" 

MOVIES 

"BLAZING SADDLES" 
8:00 AND 10:00 P.M. MONT GOMERY THEATRE, LAFORTUNE ADMISSION : $1.00 
FrF!HOAV "STEEL MAGNOLIAS" SAlfl!JJR!I)A'Y/ "THE MEANING OF LIFE" 
8:00 AND 10:00 P.M. CUSHING AUDITORIUM ADMISSION : $2.00 
CROSSWORD 
27 Luce's "Margin for-" 30 Tea, in Tours 32 School of whales 35 Pierced 36 Wears away 37 Aborigines 
38 Greek youth who swam the Hellespont 
39 Member of a cruise ship's crew 
SPELUNKER 


Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

40 Site of Hardin­Simmons Univ. 
41 Billiard shots 42 Rash 45 A Harriman 
nickname .48 Expiate 

so Jewish Passover feast 52--theMan Musial 54 Part of a horse collar 56 W.W. II scene of operations sa Hint 

I 
l
' 
I 
1: 
'li ,, 
r Sports
: 
, lolij page 20 Thursday, September 20, 1990 I,\ Men's soccer falls
j;
..\ 

to rival Detroit, 2-0 
By RICH KURZ came when Irish midfielder Tom Connaghan got inside the
Sports Writer 
defense, but couldn't convert when his shot sailed just wide 
Monday night the men's soc­of the goal. cer team was a jubilant and Detroit began putting some confident bunch after destroy­pressure on Notre Dame goal­ing Valparaiso. Last night, after keeper Peter Gulli at the 26:45 losing 2-0 to a Detroit team mark when a header off a that Notre Dame should have crossing shot went wide of the beaten, the Irish must be at goal, and again after 39 min­least a little bit confused. utes when Gulli made a nice 
Is the real men's soccer team save ofT a header. the one that came within a whisker of upsetting two Top Just 28 seconds before the 20 teams and left Valparaiso half. the Titans got on the battered and bruised, or the scoreboard and grabbed hold of 
i team that tied a weak Loyola the momentum. Detroit's Goran 't crew and lost to the Titans yes­Cepo, deep inside the goal box, I terday? got a hold of a shot that had
·.) 
While it will probably take a deflected ofT an Irish player and couple of games to tell for sure. buried it deep in the upper left one thing was clear last corner of the net, where Gulli night-Detroit was hungrier for had no chance of saving it. the win. The Titans were confidant 

Neither team attacked early coming into the game, and in the game, which was a scoring the first goal renewed switch for the Irish, who went their confidence and intensity. right for the jugular with a Cepo was mobbed by his fellow great deal of success last game. players, and the Detroit bench 
The Irish had several early went crazy in the knowledge drives into Titan territory, each that they would carry a lead of which was thwarted by into halftime against a favored Detroit defenders before Notre Notre Dame team. Dame could get ofT a shot. The first real break in the game see MEN I page 16 
Younger Brooks takes starting position in stride 
Sophomore cornerback takes advantage of opportunity against Michigan with interception 
Jones dropped back pretty deep 
spring practice and quickly Michigan State that I'll be able
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
earned a backup role to pro­to compete, and compete well." 
Assistant Sports Editor to where (Michigan 
quarterback Elvis Grbac) had to jected starter Rod Smith. For a player to earn the With the preseason injury to starting job after one game of
over

It's your first game in a new throw it him, and he 
All-America field cornerback experience, his coach has toposition. You're playing for the (Grbac) basically threw it right 
' ( Todd Lyght, however, Brooks have some confidence in his
top-ranked team in the country. to me," said Brooks. 
With 1:32 left, Brooks inter­became a part of the "first unit" ability to compete well. 
You're playing against the na­defensive backs that also "He's gotten better with eachtion's fourth-ranked team. And cepted an errant Grbac pass 
included Smith, Greg Davis and week, certainly," said sec­you didn't even start the game. that ended any hopes of George Poorman. When Lyght ondary coach Chuck Heater.
But you find yourself, late in Michigan's taking the game 
away from the Irish, who had returned, Brooks was relegated "Being thrown in there alonethe fourth quarter, defending just scored a dramatic touch­once again to a backup for against Michigan, he did a niceagainst a drive that could win down to go ahead 28-24. Like Smith. job. He did some very goodthe game and cause your team But after a few ill-timed cov­things. I think (starting in fallto lose for the first time at his recent success, Brooks is 
home in four years. taking the interception in erages by Smith during the practice) gave him a lot of reps. 
Reggie Brooks 
Michigan game, Lou Holtz sub­which certainly helped him." 
Oh, and also to Jose that top stride. 
"Before I went out there, stituted him for Brooks during Any switch of positions re­ranking in which your team has (cornerback) Rod (Smith) told Brooks took it, thank you very Michigan's second drive of the quires much training, butfound a home. 
a consequence, quarter.
Reggie Brooks is familiar with me to play (Michigan receiver) much, and as third Brooks re­Brooks has had a mere seven 
Desmond Howard a little Notre Dame took the game. He sponded so well that he earned months of practice since springthis scene. 
The game was against tighter, so I played him a little intercepted the pass on the the starting spot for Saturday's football, and now he finds him­
Michigan, and Brooks was tighter," said Brooks. "But he Notre Dame 40, returning it game against Michigan State. self in the starting formation. nine yards. "I was a little nervous when I "I've come a long ways in
playing short-side cornerback never made a burst to get by 
All this, and the sophomore got in the first time," said reading coverages and learning 
against a Wolverine offense me, so I never did have to come 
Brooks had had no experience Brooks. "After that, I got in my how to read receivers better,"that had been picking apart the out of my backpedal. Grbac 
Irish secondary in key situa­threw it right to me, so all I had playing cornerback. He had rhythm, and I felt comfortable said Brooks. "I still have work 
tions. But not this time. to do was catch it. I said, Til made the transition from tail­playing the receivers. I feel go­back to defensive back in ing into this game against see BROOKS/ page 18
"(Outside linebacker) Andre take it.'" 
Women's soccer beats St. Joseph's 
I 
I By DAVE DIETEMAN little bit flat today," remarked played its corner kick short to Sports Writer Notre Dame head coach Chris midfielder Marianne Giolitto, Petrucelli. "We were looking who passed to midfielder The Notre Dame women's past this game a little bit. I Margaret Jarc. Jarc's shot from soccer team wrapped up its definitely think that we were 20 yards out deflected off the three-game homestand with its more concerned with playing head of a Saint Joseph's de­
t' 
third win in a row, sneaking Michigan State and Marquette fender and into the opposite past Saint Joseph's College 2-0 this weekend than with today's corner of the net for a 1-0 Irish at Alumni Field Wednesday game. Also, it is tough to come advantage. night. out of the classroom at 3 p.m. "Margaret Jarc had a very 
With the win, the Irish im­and play a game at 4 p.m. good game." noted Petrucelli. proved their record to 4-2, Some of the kids just left their "But the kids playing in back while Saint Joseph's slipped to games in their books. also deserve some credit. Jarc, 2-5. However, all was not a "Saint Joseph's physical play Shannon Jenkins, Andrea bundle of roses for the fledgling took us ofT of our game a little Kurek, and Gennifer I ~ Notre Dame squad. The Lady bit. I do not think that we re­Kwiatowski are the reason why Pumas played a very physical acted very well. When Brenda we won this game. They de­l· j brand of soccer, which Gorski came in, that changed, fended very well and were solid
I I 
frustrated the Irish in the early because it is very hard to push in the back. ~ } going. Additionally, the Irish did her ofT of the ball." "Today we had five midfield­
I. not have their attention entirely Yet the matchup was not ers and three fullbacks, and r ( I directed toward the game at without bright spots for the Jarc was the midfielder that 
1 hand. Irish. see WOMEN I page 17
'1 "I thought that we came out a In the first half. Notre Dame 







