
VOL. XXIII NO. 53 THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 15, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S t 
Bush, Congress clash over president's power ~.s. bishops 
WASHINGTON (API -Presi-Leader Richard Gephardt, D-
ISSUe report
dtmt Bush clashed Wednnsday Mo., told Bush that waiting a wit~ l~ad~rs of Cong.ress trying year ?r a year and a half for 0 n sexual"1ty
to hmtt hts war-makmg powers sanctiOns to force Iraq out of but assured anxious lawmakers Kuwait was a better choice he has not deeided to use mili-than war. Michel told Bush he WASHINGTON (API -U.S. tary foren to push Iraqi troops could not wait that long, and Roman Catholic bishops on out of Kuwait. 
Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa., Wednesday adopted their 
chairman of the House Appro­first comprehensive 
In a two-hour meeting, priations defense subcommit­guidelines on human Dmnocratic leadnrs insistnd that tee, said the president should sexuality, portraying it in Bush must senk congressional be prepared to move soon, the exalting terms and calling for approval beforn taking military source said. it to be taught in Catholic action in the Persian Gulf. He schools. 
refused to give any such Rep. David Obey, D-Wis., said Against some opposition guarantee. Democrats were unanimous in and attempts at delay, the "Thn president did not indi­counseling patience. document was approved by a cate either a commitment to do "How long are you willing to strong voice vote by the 
that or refusal to do that," Se­wait it out to save lives? My an­National Conference of nate Majority Leader George swer is, a fair amount of time." Catholic Bishops. Mitehell said later. Baker said the sanctions are It says sexual education 
Secretary of State James working but might not be should be taught in schools Baker Ill said Bush would follow enough to force an Iraqi with­and parishes as well as in the Constitution, but he drawal. "I don't think we can families, a provision strongly pointedly added, "It's a question say that today with certainty. opposed by several bishops of what the Constitution We know they are beginning to who said many parents want 
requires." bite," Baker said. such education kept in the 
Some lawmakers, including home. One said families While acknowledging that only Senate Republican Leader Bob might remove their children
AP Photo 

Congross has authority to Dole, have called for a special from Catholic schools if sex declare war, Baker said, "There session of Congress to vote on education is required. 
President Bush talks with Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence 
are many, many circumstances the gulf crisis, but that proposal Describing sexuality as a
Eagleberger at the start of a cabinet meeting at the White House. 
and situations indeed where appeared dead Wednesday. "wonderful gift," the bishops there could be action taken Reading from his notes of the with our allies" and the United "There is no support for it on said they approach the against American citizens or meeting, House Minority Nations. either side," Senate Foreign subject with a "deep and against Ameriean interests that Leader Hobert Michel, H-Ill., However, Michel said he was Relations Chairman Claiborne abiding sense of 
would call for a very prompt and quoted Bush as saying, "We "a little distressed" that some Pell, D-R.l., said as he left the appreciation, wonder and substantial response." haven't crossed any particular participants in the meeting White House. respect." Fears of war in the Middle Hubicon here" with the latest with Bush had spoken of They said, "We are dealing East wern flamed by Bush's de­increase. waiting up to 18 months for Rep. William Broomfield, R­with a divine gift, a primal 
rision last week to send up­sanctions against Iraq to take Mich., senior Republican on the dimension of each person, a wards of 200,000 more troops to For his own part, Michel full effect. He said that was "far House Foreign Affairs Commit­mysterious blend of spirit the gulf. nearly doubling the said, "I don't look for the kind beyond the time frame I tee, said there was a bipartisan and body, which shares in Anwriean military force there of action ... some people are thought appropriate." agreement that "it would be God's own creative love and 
and adding what Bush called an anticipating, real soon. We According to an administra­just poor judgment to have it life." 
offensive capability. want to continue to counsel tion source, House Majority right now." 
Key issues of Student Bill of Rights being considered by Task Force 
By JOHN O'BRIEN ment Legal Department. 
the four issues to the CLC, said progress by the Task Force of The Legal Department orga­Singh. O'Hara's rejection of CLC the CLC," she wrote.
Managing Editor 
Resolution #9091 02 and O'Hara said on Wednesday
nized the issues that the Bill of subsequent Task Force discus­she would like to see the CLCThe Student Bill of Bights, left Bights addressed into four sion prompted the Task Force "use the Bill of Bights as a way
for dt~ad by most students, is main areas. These areas are to change its approach, Singh of surfacing issues and evaluat­still very much alive, although Judgement by Peers. Public 
ing existing judicial proce­
some students might not Knowledge of Hearings, Collec­said. 
recognize it. tive Punishment and Freedom tnese recommendations com­In her letter to Student Body dures." She said she advocates of Expression. bined into a single report and President Rob Pasin dated Nov. the CLC submitting the recom­
· The Bill of University and 
forwarded to the CLC. If the 9, O'Hara rejected the resolu­mendations in a report "similarStudent Relations Task Force, Following Vice-President for Student Affa\rs Patricia CLC accepts the report, it will tion and urged against splitting to the Board of Trustees reports formed by the Campus Life be forwarded to O'Hara, ·who the issues up into four separate that Student Government doesCouncil (CLC) on Mar. 28 of this O'Hara's rejection of a Campus 
year, is currently working on Life Council resolution regard­said she would respond in a resolutions. every year." 
"timely manner," according to "I do not think it is advisable "I can't tell them what to do.
the ideas which the original Bill ing the issue of collective pun­It's up to them to determinediscussed. However, the Bill's ishment, the Task Force will Singh. to deal with this issue on a 
original form has been dis­compile a report addressing all The submission of a single piece-meal basis. I believe this their direction," she added. four areas rather than submit­report to the CLC was not the issue would be better examined The Task Force's decision to
carded and many of its ideas 
original intent of the Task in connection with the review submit a single report alters
have been clarified, according ting separate resolutions. 
In a meeting on Wednesday, Force, who had planned on of existing University judicial
to Baja Singh, executive coor­
see RIGHTS I page 4 
the Task Force decided that sending one report on each of procedures currently in
dinator of the Student Govern-
Williams argues in support of ROTC programs at NO 
By BECKY RITZERT 
News Writer 
Associate Provost Father Oliver Williams agrees with Coleman McCarthy that we should take on roles of service and that pnople should find time to learn about the troubles of those who aw less fortunate. 
Unlih McCarthy, Williams bPlieves that llw military actu­ally enhances rather than in­hibits such a mission. 
Williams was the second speaker in a series of three lec­tures dnaling with controversy surrounding the presence of HOTC at a Catholic university. 
McCarthy opened the series Tuesday night by presenting his pacifist views. 
Last night Williams re­sponded. · 
Despite the fact that Chris­tians are called to lives of non­violence and justice, a career in the military is an honorabl(! calling for a Christian, accord­ing to Williams. 
In his lecture, Williams, a former Navy officer. stressed that there are certain condi­tions under which violence should be used to promote jus­tice. "The just war tradition 
see ROTC I page 6 




page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



NCAA should not change policy on draft 
Anyone who 
watched the halftime 
show during the 
Tennessee game 
learned that the 

National Collegiate Bradley Galko 
Athletic Association 
(NCAA) is considering 

legislation that would Assistant News Editor allow a football player who applies for the draft as a junior and does not get drafted to retain his college eligibility. This would be a big mis­take for the NCAA because it discourages players from finishing their education and makes a negative statement about college athletics. 
Under the current system, a junior that is not drafted loses his college eligibility. This means he loses the chance to play football on national television in front of the pro scouts for another year. Additionally, in most cases, he loses the chance to finish up his education. Without a degree and without a football career, he finds himself between a rock and a hard place. 
This discourages players from applying for the draft early because they have a lot to lose for a very small chance at a gain. If the player stays in school, however, he can have another year of playing with additional exposure and often finishes his degree program. Therefore he has something to fall back on after football or in case his career is ended prematurely by injury or waiver. 
If the system is changed as the NCAA now proposes, however, far more players will leave school as juniors and relinquish their eligibility. Then a few weeks, months, or maybe even a couple of years down the road when he gets cut from training camp or waived or seriously injured, the player will find himself with no degree, no scholarship and lacking for a good job. Unfortunately the demand for sportscasters and spokes­people with a one-year or less football ca­reer is rather limited. 
Another problem with the NCAA would be the kind of image this legislation gives to college football. Are colleges and universi­ties places where people go for four years to gain an education and degree and simul­taneously sharpen their athletic skills, or are they just places to bide your time until the pros pick you up? 
Unfortunately, the new system would promote more of the latter. Essentially the proposed legislation sends a message of "go ahead and try your hand at the pros and if you're not successful just come on back for a while until you can try again." This is not the image college athletics should project. 
In light of the long-term damage to play­ers and the negative image this new pro­posed legislation would present, the NCAA should not adopt this new legislation but, rather, encourage guys to "stay in school." 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

(219)-239-7471  
Today's  Staff:  Sports  
News  Ken Tysiac  
PeteYob Frank Rivera  Production Kelly Lynch  Business Christine Walsh Alicia Reale  
Accent  Cheryl Moser  
Shonda Wilson Stephanie Snyder Christine Ortiiz  VIewpoint DavidCerto Kathy Welsh  Graphics Patrick Midden Circulation  
Ad Design Tony Paganelli Amy Eckert  Systems Cesar Capella Bernard Brenninkmeyer  Chris Hanely Lu Medeiros  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Thursday, November 15, 1990 
r---------------------------­
Yesterday's High: 64 Yesterday's Low: 31 Nation's High: 94 (Borrego Springs, Calif.) Nation's Low: 10 (Gunnison, Colo.) 
Forecast: Sunny and very warm Thursday with highs in the upper 60s. Increas­ing cloudiness and mild Thursday night. Lows in the upper 40s. Mostly cloudy and cooler Friday 



 with 50s.  highs in the  upper  
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure  
® HIGH  © LOW  ~' SHOWERS  ~ RAIN  [I] T-STORMS  tz]A FLURRIES  ~ SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  


================================~-=-=-=---ViaAss:i~t-~~:~~sGraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
The engineering activities fair will be held today from 4-6 p.m. in the lobby of Cushing Hall of Engineering. Representatives from 12 engineering societies will be present to answer questions and offer membership opportunities. Free pizza will be served. 
The Pre-Law Society will be holding an in­formational session on "Financing Your Law School Edu­cation." Robert Waddick, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will be presenting scholarship and financial aid information. The meeting will be held today at 4:30 in Room 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Eagle Scouts interested in the Notre Dame Eagle fellowship organization will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 217 of the Campus Security Building. Call David Michael at 283 -1387 if you have questions. 
James Baker Ill, u.s. secretary of state, will meet this weekend with the foreign ministers of U.N. Security Council members Ethiopia, Ivory Coast and Zaire, in an effort to solidify sup­port for U.S. actions in the Persian Gulf. Baker hopes to persuade them to support a resolution authorizing the use of force to expel Iraqi invaders from Kuwait. Baker last week 
lined up the Soviet Union, China, Britain and France, which, as permanent members of the Council, could have killed the resolution "Yi.th their veto. He then will fly to Paris to meet Sunday with the foreign ministers of Roma­nia and Finland and hold another session with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and British For­eign Secretary Douglas Hurd. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE 

The body of a 19-year-old convenience store clerk, who was missing from her job for 13 hours, was found Wednesday night in a wooded area. Crystal Helmchen was reported missing by Volume in shares three customers in the White Hen Pantry at 1:30 179.31 Million 
a.m. Wednesday. She was last seen when a Val­paraiso police officer made a routine check about an hour earlier. Her body was discovered by construction workers in the rocky, wooded area of Jackson Township off U.S. 6, about two miles 

1:f 41.39 
S&P Composite 
from her house and eight miles from the store. A 

317.67 • 1.81
friend identified Helmchen's body. Valparaiso po­
Dow Jones Industrials
lice did not immediately release the cause of 
death. Police were still searching for Helmchen's 

2,559.65 +24.2 
car, which was missing from the store. 

Precious Metals Gold +$1.90 to $380.40/oz. 
Silver +o.15¢ to $4.18/oz. 
WORLD 
NYSE Index 214.70 

Hispanic American Organization members will meet tonight at 7:30 p.m. at Farley Hall. 
The OXFAM fast will be held at Saint Mary's College on Thursday, Nov. 15. Films will be shown in Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall, during the lunch and dinner hours. The fast will end with a celebration of the Eucharist and a simple meal of soup and bread at 8 p.m. in the Clubhouse. 
Jurors are needed for Notre Dame Law School mock trials. Trial dates are Dec. 1-2 and 8-9. Volunteers are asked to pick one day they can participate. Trials be­gin at 8:30 a.m. at the Saint Joseph County Courthouse on Main and Washington streets. Please call Jennifer at 273­9164 or Pete at 283-2945 and leave a message if you are interested. 


A television journalist will become the first Japanese citizen in space when he joins Soviet cosmonauts on a mission Dec. 2, officials said. Toyekiro Akiyama of Japan's TBS television network appeared at a news con­ference Monday with Soviet cosmonauts Victor Afanasyev and Mussa Manapov at the Soviet space complex at Star City, the government newspaper Izvestia said Tuesday. The December flight, details of which have not been an­nounced, will be the first for a Japanese citizen. Other foreigners, including those from France, Afghanistan and Cuba, have flown on Soviet space flights. The Soviet Union has been trying to boost the image and profitability of its space program following budget problems and a series of mishaps. A hatch on the Soviet space station Mir failed during a flight this year, and a rocket exploded on the launch pad last month, destroying what a U.S. expert said was probably a spy satellite. 
ALMANAC 

On Nov. 15: eln 1966: The flight of Gemini 12 ended successfully as the capsule -carrying astro­nauts James Lovell and Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin Jr. -splashed down in the Atlantic. eln 1969: Some 250,000 protesters staged a peaceful demonstration in Washington against the Vietnam War. eln 1982: Funeral services were held in Moscow's Red Square for the late Soviet Pres­ident Leonid Brezhnev. eln 1984: Baby Fae, the month-old infant who had re­ceived a baboon's heart to re­place her own congenitally de­formed one, died at a California medical center almost three weeks after the transplant. 

--~-------------------------------~---~-----~----. 
International students discuss life in the U.S. at Saint Mary's meeting 
Thursday, November 15, 1990 
The Observer 


The Observer/Matt Mittino 

Br. Michael Smith, front right, Flanner Hall rector, is shown with Reginald Lechner a freshman at St. Joseph's High School, who is the recipient of the 1990 Brother Michael Smith, C.S.C. Flanner Tower Scholarship, a $1000 award presented annually to an incoming St. Joseph's High School freshman. 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
If there was something the foreign students would change at Saint Mary's, they agreed that there should be a manda­tory geography course. 
Americans' geographical ig­norance was just one of the topics discussed in "To See Ourselves As Others See Us." Students and faculty from Bel­gium, Spain, Bolivia, Germany, NigBriu and India gathered to share their American and na­tive experiences to increase worldwide awanmess. 
Havi Parashar, visiting in­structor of bus·iness adminis­tration and economics, said that when he came to teach at Saint Mary's he was concerned about how people would receive him, but "students don't wonder why you're different. They expect diversity since this is a university and they take it in 
ls•sa•:=•, ~~~,.~~,~~~~~-~~--:>W(" 
I-­ You are Cordially Invited to a Company Presentation  ~ I I  
~  by  I  
! I  Eli Lilly and Company  II  
on  I  
"Financial Career Opportunities and Challenges in a World-Class Life Sciences Company"  ~_:' I  

i 




1._. 
~ 
I ~ 
~ ~ 
!II! 
~ 
I 
!~ 

Thursday, November 15, 1990 
~ 
~ '•. 


~ LaF~~~~~~:~~:.~~~~nter ~-~·_·: 
s:oo pm. 7:00pm ~ 
I 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASS<I:IATION MEMORIAL PR([;RAM. 
~~ 

American Heart &~a Association ~ 
This space provided as a public service 
Work up to 6 months in Britain, Ireland, France, Germany, Jamaica. New Zealand. and Costa Rtca. Counctl's Work Abroad Pro­
~ l" 

gram. the only one of tis kind in the U.S. cuts through all the red lapel 
R t II ~--> IPG-131~ Kolo-JoLnoo~L
0 0 0 • 
Call for FREE brochures on work programs, L.-.-«:>­
eceptwn o owmg presentatiOn _' ..-~..·:•••~.~; t~~~~~~~••~~.~~ 
dtscount atr fares, language courses, and more. 
Council on lnt'l Educational Exchange 
Open to students majoring in: ~--.-.~jijiiiiiiir,w~N~niiii.-i Finance, Accountancy, and Economics .:
J 

5:00-7:15 -9:30 

stride that I'm just from an­other part of the universe." 
Born in India, Parashar has a strong Indo-Latin background that he has chosen to preserve by wearing his traditional dress. Both men and women wear "all colors of the rainbow" and Parashar's own colorful wardrobe reflects his attitude. "I feel happy and larky all the time. It's a Latin phenomenon," said Parashar, who has lived in Mexico. 
One student from India pointed out that younger stu­dents from foreign countries "come with another point of view and try to integrate their dress." Parashar attested to the graduate students being more prone to "keep their culture" in the visible sense. However, he said that no one forgets their culture no matter where they go. 
Since Parashar came to South Bend directly after living in Mexico for twenty-one years, his American experiences have been chiefly in this area. "For the life of me, I can't remember an unfavorable experience in South Bend," Parashar stated. "There are things I don't agree with, but I have many positive stories to relate." 
The bus system is a source of amazement for Parashar as he has been surprised at how ac­commodating they are. He re­called getting on the wrong bus once with two other foreigners. The bus driver called another bus, that took a detour from its route to pick them up and take them home. 
"How come people are so nice in South Bend?" Parashar mused and then answered his own question. "I think it's be­cause this is a small town. South Bend is different from Chicago and New York." 
Daniele Marechal, a student from Belgium, is married with a 
pa e 3 


Scholarship awarded to local high school student 
By FRANK RIVERA 
News Writer 
Earlier this year, Flanner Hall awarded the Brother Michael Smith, C.S.C. Flanner Tower Scholarship to Heginald Lechner, a freshman at St. Joseph's High School. 
The scholarship, worth $1000, is presented to an in­coming St. Joseph's High School freshman on the basis of academic merit and financial need, according to Br. Michael Smith, Flanner Hall rector. 
The scholarship, now in its second year, approximately covers tuition costs for one-half 
son but does not feel that that has set her apart from the other students. 
"I don't feel anything by being older and hope nobody else does," she said. "I feel eighteen in my heart." 
Marechal described an initial "culture shock to an extent" because of the effort to "make new acquaintances, and just know your way around." The way American businesses are run was also foreign to her. 
Marechal's husband was put in a position of authority and she said that terminating em­ployees was difficult for him. 
"In Belgium, if you have din­ner with (employees), or have social contacts, you are consid­ered friends. My husband couldn't fire friends," Marechal explained. 
Atim Appio, a freshman from Nigeria, came to America after five years of schooling in Scot­land. 
"At the age of fourteen, I had to decide what I was going to do with the rest of my life," said Appio. "I wanted to change my major later on. I chose Saint Mary's to get a liberal arts education." 
Other students related the 
same reasons for going to school in the states. 
Maria Trigo, a student from Bolivia, was impressed by the attendance here. 
"European colleges try to flunk you. Here, the professors will do anything to help and ev­erybody goes to class. In Spain, no one does," Trigo said. 
Students admitted to having preconceptions of America, some of which were disproved. 
"I thought that all the land from coast to coast was like New York. When I came to South Bend, I was shocked," Elizabeth Forester, a student from London, said. "(Foreigners) are intrigued and interested by the expansive thought and territory in Amer­ica." 
She is impressed by "the dif­ferent modes of dress and practices that contribute to so­ciety." 
Parashar said that interna­tional students are pleased with American hospitality and like to return some of it by "sharing their heritage with hosts. They are usually ready to perform and show their culture." 
This informal discussion held in Haggar Parlor was spon­sored by the Anthropology Club. 
year at St. Joseph's. 
The money for the scholar­ship is raised by the residents of Flanner Hall through fundraisers, tournaments with proceeds going to this fund, collections and other activities, according to Smith. 
The recipient was named by St. Joseph's faculty and honored at a banquet held in October. 
The scholarship will be awarded annually using the same format. However, the number of awarded will not in­crease, according to Smith. 
1153 N Detrborn St ChUg<>, IL 60610 312·951·0585

~----..:::>QIIX~c)lX~0:~:.::;41C<;.:;~~:~41K~~-~~'~~:-:...::::«<:~~:· ..___________... 
,...._------------~---------~-~~--~­
pa~------------------------------------------------T~h~e~O~b~se~N~e~r_______________________________T_h_u_rs_d_a~y~,N ov_e_m_b_e_r_1~5~·-1~9~9~0­

she just didn't like the fact that

RightS 
they were mandated," said continued from page 1 Singh. In the letter. O'Hara stated 
greatly their original plan. that the resolution did not 
Before Wednesday's decision, clearly define "collective re­
the Task Force had planned on sponsibility," which caused her 
evaluating four individual re­to be hesitant in accepting the 
ports, compiled by the Legal resolution. 
Department, and then sending "I can think of few instances 
their recommendations on to in which I would not be willing 
the CLC, according to Singh. to consult with student lead­
There the CLC would discuss ers," she said, "but I am unwill­the individual report and sub­ing to adopt a University pro­mit any resulting resolution to cedure in which I am mandated O'Hara, who would then have to do so in every instance of an seven days to respond. If ac­event that has been only loosely cepted, the resolution would defined." become official University pol­While the issue of collective icy. If vetoed, though, the par­punishment has already gone ticular resolution would be before O'Hara, the second is­dead. sue, judgement by peers, is in 
Under the new process, the the early stages of debate. final recommendations will be Wednesday's meeting was the sent to O'Hara for her consid­first time that the Task Force eration. She told the task force discussed the Legal Depart­that she will respond to each ment's report on judgement by recommendation and that she peers. In the report, major will consider the recommenda­changes in current University tions and keep them in mind Judicial procedure are pro­when the University revises du posed. Lac this summer. The report proposes changes 
"This new method should ex­in all three types of disciplinary pedite the, entire process," said proceedings: administrative Singh. "Now, the debate will be hearings, disciplinary confer­over the spirit of the recom­ences and residence hall mendations instead of the letter judicial procedures. In the of them." meeting Wednesday, only the 
He added that the CLC had proposal dealing with run into problems debating administrative hearings was 
Stude'nt Government 

Judicial Procedures 
Dulac 
Legal Dept. Report 

Hearings conducted a panel of 
Recommends the addition of 
Administrative Hearings 

three Residence Life 
one student to the panel 
Disciplinary Conference 
In-Hall Violations 

The Observer/Pat Midden 
the numbers really don't
resolutions because they must discussed, said Singh. 
matter," he added.
be taken literally. The recom­An administrative hearing is a 
The Task Force expressed
mendations, because of their hearing before a three-member agreement with the recommen­non-binding nature, should panel of Office of Residence Life 
dation to add one student,
eliminate these problems, he staff. These hearings are only Singh said. 
said. held in cases of violations 
The recommendation regard­"The CLC can now talk about punishable with suspension or ing disciplinary conferences,the ideas and let the practical dismissal from the University. 
which will be discussed at next aspects be worked out by Pro­These hearings are much like week's task force meeting, isfessor O'Hara and her staff," he trials, said Singh, with students more complicated.
said. being allowed the assistance of All violations that are sent toThe Task Force, which will be "undergraduate student coun­Student Affairs and not handled making recommendations to sel" and the petitioning of wit­by an administrative hearing,the CLC is made up of represen­nesses. Approximately 130 out 
are settled through a disci­tatives of the students and of 400 cases heard each year 
plinary conference. In these
Administration. Joining Singh goes to administrative hearings, are Student Government Judi­said Singh. cial Coordinator Vinny Sanchez, The Legal Department report Student Senators Joe Wilson recommends the addition of and Lisa Bostwick, and Stan­one student to the panel. ford Hall Rector Bill Kirk. "We didn't have much of a 
Also on the Task Force are problem with this type of hear­Law student Jim Hogan, Peter ing, but we felt a student on the Lombardo, associate director of panel would have a better idea the CCE, Fr. Michael Sullivan, of the context of the violation," rector of Carroll Hall, Sr. said Singh. Jeannine Jochman, rector of In discussing the recommen­Lyons Hall, and Ann Firth, di­dation, members of the Task rector of Residence Life. Force questioned the number of 
The members of the Task panel members. Force will readdresss the issue "Some people were of collective punishment, which concerned that an even number appeared dead after O'Hara re­would cause problems in a jected the CLC resolution. vote," Singh said. "But these 
"Professor O'Hara liked a lot decisions are usually made by of the ideas in the resolution, consensus and not by vote, so 
On the occasion of the Anniversary of the death of the martyrs at the 

University of Central America 
MEMORIAL SERVICE Thursday, Nov. 15 Pasquerilla West -5 PM 
I EUCHARIST Friday, Nov. 16 [[\,f, 
Dillon Hall -4 PM 
_______,1________
___.--::::
:·=·
.--------=~:-I
.-----:~=~_--------=:_.
L~ 
administrators 
One-on-one conference between student and one member of the Residence Life Staff 
Accused student has choice of either Hall Judicial Board or rector, except when cases are "truly serious or sensitive or involve pastoral concerns not appropriate for a Judicial Board.H 
conferences, a Residence Life staff member "will meet with the student to investigate, dis­cuss and resolve the alleged violation," according to du Lac. 
"We felt this is where the problem lied," Singh said. He said concerns arose over Resi­dence Life staff members being the "ones who investigate, try, judge and punish." 
"We saw room for problems here," he said. 
To counter these problems, the report offered two alterna­tives: 
1) Proposes the formation of a campus wide student J-Board ... "Cases involving pastoral concerns and serious and sensitive matters" would still be handled by the administrators 
2) Proposes 4 or 5 district Judicial Boards to handle all hall and University violations within their district 
Asks for a stricter definition 
of "serious and sensitive 
matters and pastoral 
concerns" in order to make 
Hall Judicial Boards more 
active. 

•The 
creation of a campus­wide student Judicial Board to deal with disciplinary confer­ence level infractions. 

•The 
creation of four or five district Judicial Boards to deal with all hall and University vio­lations occurring within their district. 


The first alternative raises the question of matters which du Lac calls "serious or sensitive or [that] involve pastoral concerns." In these cases, the 
see RIGHTS I page 6 


, 
~l 
Thursday, November 15, 1990 The Observer 
page 5 
I 
I 

I 
Heseltine to challenge Thatcher's leadership of Conservative Party I 
LONDON (i\Pl - Former On­ Other ministers in the 22­ in the Tories' 16-month lag in  
fense Se~retary  Miehael llesel­ member Cabinet said it was  opinion polls, mainly because of  
line on  W1~dnesday  ~hallenged  wrong to challenge Thatcher  high interest rates, double-digit  
Prime  Minister  Margaret  now, with some 16,000 British  inflation and an unpopular local  
Thatdwr in a six-day war for the leadership of the govern­ troops in the Persian Gulf and war threatening against Iraq.  per-.~apita tax dubbed the "poll tax.  
ment  and  the Conservative  Heseltine said that if he wins  
I'arty.  lleseltine, who needs 159  he will order an immediate re­ 
votAs in the first SP.cret ballot to  view of that tax, which he said  
llesnltine, who will stand  force  a  runoff. said more than  left "a lingering sense of injus­ 
against Thatdwr in  a  ballot  100 legislators have pledged  tice."  
among the :H2 Conservative  support. Thatcher needs 214  
legislators on Tuesday, ae~used  votes to win outright.  Thatcher is the longest-serv­ 
lwr of splitting the party on  ing head of government in the  
Europe and alienating votP.rs  If a second ballot is needed it  Western world, and Britain's  
with an  unpopular local gov­ will be held Nov. 27 and may  longest-serving prime minister  
ernnwnt tax.  well bring in other contenders  in this century.  
from the Cabinet, such as For­ The attempt to overthrow her  
The challenge by lleseltine, a  eign Secretary Douglas Hurd. If  threatened to become a dirty,  
self-made  millionaire  who  no  onfl  won  outright then,  a  no-holds-barred campaign for  
nspous1~s  a "~aring capitalism"  third and final vote among the  the leadership of the party  
in contrast to Thatcher's rig­ last three top contenders will be  which has a  majority in the  
orous free-marknt views, poses  held Nov. 29.  650-member House of Com­ 
tlw biggnst threat to her sur­ mons. The party leader is au­ 
vival sincn slw won power more  lleseltine, defense secretary  tomatieally the prime minister.  
than 1 I years ago.  until  he  stalked  out  of  
Thatcher's Cabinet in 1986 in a  On Tuesday, the 4-million cir­ 
"I am persuaded that I will now have a bntter prospeet than Mrs. Thatcher of leading the Cons,ervatives to a fourth general election vietory," IIPsel­tirw said. Knnnnth Baker. ~hairman of the troubl1~d Conservative Party, said the 65-year-old prime minister will light to the end to keep power -through a possible thnw ballots Pnding Nov. 29. "This <·.ontnst is unwantnd and umweessary." Baker said. "I am sun! slw will win on the first ballot." "Siw would light her corner. That is wholly admirable," said llnsdtinn.  Europe-mlated dispute, stepped forward a day after her former deputy prime minister delivered a scathing attack on her atti­tude toward Europe. The onslaught by Sir Geoffrey HowP., who resigned Nov. 1, appeared to havfl tipped Hesel­tine into his along awaited bid for the leadership. Hebellion has simmered in the party for morP than a year, partly over Thatcher's isolation in the stepped-up drive for greater European unity. Britain alone rejected an agreement last month in principle for a single central bank and single currency for the 12-nation Eu­ropean community. But Thatcher's erisis is rooted  culation Sun newspaper carried stories with intimate details of the private lives of some of He­seltine's known supporters, in­cluding that one had a mistress and another had visited a gay club. Thatcher will vote for herself by proxy Tuesday from Paris, where she will be at a 35­nation summit of leaders of East and West. Her supporters expressed dismay at the prospect of the party dumping the leader who faced down the unions, led the war in the Falkland Islands and whose gritty brand of national­ism helped revive the country's self-image as a European power and America's No. 1 ally.  AP Photo Former Defense Secretary Michael Heseltine speaks with reporters at Wednesday after announcing that he will challenge Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher for leadership of the governing Conservative Party and would thus become prime minister. "Her leadership qualities are as opposition legislators the greatest political assets taunted her chaneellor of the which the Conservative Party exchequer, John Major. and our nation have," said party chairman Baker. "Why don't you line up with Heseltine?" a legislator shouted Hurd, who could pose the as Major defended the biggest threat of all to Thatcher government's economic record if she fails to stop Heseltine in and promised better times the first ballot, said on ahead. Wednesday the challenge was a mistake. But he added he Heseltine left the Cabinet agreed with many of Howe's after Thatcher ordered him to criticisms. halt a eampaign for a European In the House of Commons on consortium to rescue the British Wednesday afternoon, Thatcher helicopter-maker, Westland, sat in her usual front-bench instead of a U.S.-lnd consortium seat, occasionally smiling thinly, she favored.  


Alitalia jetliner crash kills 40; Swiss officials investigating
Closed Courses as of 
7:00 P.M. 11/14/90 
ZURICH, Switzerland (i\P) -Fire raged in the wreckage 
An Alitalia DC-9 jetliner ap­and woodside for at least I 1/2 ACCT 232 02 0018 ENGL 457C 01 2680 soc 220 02 3031 proaching Zurich airport hours, police said. ACCT 232 05 0021 ENGL 465 01 2682 soc 232 01 3032 crashed into a hillside and Hanni Steffen, a nearby rnsi­ACCT 232 09 0025 ENGL 470 01 2683 soc 260 01 3033 burned Wednesday night, dent and a medic, said she 
ACCT 232 10 0026 ENGL 490A 01 2687 soc 303 01 2498 
killing all 40 passengers and six rushed to the site but all help
ACCT 232 11 0027 ENGL 491A 01 2688 soc 342 01 2424 
crew members aboard, police appeared too late.
ACCT 479 01 0046 ENGL 4920 01 2689 soc 373 01 3035 
said.
ACCT 479 02 0047 ENGL 4968 01 2690 soc 405 01 3036 
Flight AZ404 of the Italian "The plane was burning like a
AERO 441L 01 0055 ENGL 497 01 2691 soc 419 01 3038 
AMST 326 01 2748 FIN 371 01 2506 soc 421 01 2082 airline, coming from Milan, volcano," she said. AMST 360 01 2747 GOVT 427 01 3117 soc 442 01 0837 crashed about 8:20 p.m. (2:20 Italy's state-run HAl television AMST 373 01 2746 GSC 344 01 2423 THEO 235 01 2143 p.m. EST) five miles north of said first reports appear to AMST 459 01 0133 GSC 412s 01 31n THEO 235 02 1295 Kloten international airport discount the possibility of a AMST 482 01 2753 HIST 420 01 3191 THEO 252 01 2809 outside Zurich, near the village terrorist act, but that the crash 
AMST 487 01 2752 liPS 361 01 3221 THEO 265 01 2151 
of Weiach, airport spokesman did not seemed linked to the
ANTH 365 01 2296 liPS 365 01 2297 THEO 287 01 2156 
Peter Gutknecht said. weather.
ANTH 411 01 2299 liPS 4150 01 3218 THEO 405 01 2815 
The plane broke apart on im­
ANTH 454 01 2307 liPS 423 01 3208 
Witnesses reported what ap­pact. Smoking wreckage, cov­
ARCH 598E 01 0172 
liPS 475 01 3210 
ARHI 462 01 2519 peared to be fire and explosions ered with fin~fighting foam, was
liPS 491A 01 3228 
ARST 232S 01 0203 before the plane crashed into a scattered about the muddy
liPS 575 01 2710 
/ ARST 246S 01 2319 wooded hill, Zurich police told a hillside. The tail section had
LAW 631F 01 1140 DART COURSE CHANGES
8A 362 01 0281 LAW 695 03 1160 press conference. broken off. One landing gear8A 391 01 2909 MARK 231 01 1164 Only a few on board were and a section of wing were also 
8A 391 02 2227 AL 320 01 2292 T H 01:15-02:30 time chg
MARK 231 02 1165 Italians, an Alitalia discernible. 
8A 490 04 0292 FIN 370 All Sec. Majors Only until 11/30
MARK 231 03 1166 spokeswoman said. Italian re­
8A 490 05 0293 FIN 371 01 2506 Majors Only until 11/30
MARK 231 05 1169 
ports said most of the other The plane was on time follow· 8A 490 06 0294 FIN 372 01 2382 Majors Only until 11/30
MARK 231 06 1170 
passengers were apparently ing a 50-minute flight from Mi­8LST 3n 01 2446 FIN 380 01 0901 Majors Only until 11/30
ME 469 01 1310 
FIN 462 All Sec. Majors Only until 11/30 Swiss and Japanese. Alitalia lan when it disappeared from
8LST 391 01 2295 MGT 231 02 1333 
8LST 426S 01 2777 FIN 463 01 0904 Majors Only until 11/30 said it did not expect to publish radar screens, Gutknecht said. 
MGT 231 03 1334 
CAPP 361 01 3023 FIN 470 All Sec. Majors Only until 11/30 a full passenger list before Swiss aviation authorities said 
MGT 231 04 1335 
CAPP 385 01 3022 Ml 433 01 2n4 FIN 473 01 0905 Majors Only until 11/30 Thursday. they had begun an investi­
ECON 421 01 0617 FIN 475 01 0906 Majors Only until 11/30
MUS 220 02 1495 The Swiss Federal Meteoro­gation, and Italian authorities 
ECON 450 01 2641 FIN 476 01 0908 Majors Only until 11/30
MUS 220 03 1496 logical Office said visibility at said they would dispatch a 
ENGL 303 01 0821 FIN 478 01 0909 Majors Only until 11/30
MUS 222 01 3149 the time of the crash was good team of investigators. 
ENGL 306A 01 2649 FIN 480 01 2508 Majors Only until 11/30
MUS 225 01 2758 
-up to 10 miles, with light The crash site is about 10
ENGL 311 01 0824 GOVT 341 01 0974 M\1 11:15-12:05 day chg
PHIL 244 01 2998 
ENGL 311 02 2653 GOVT 415 01 3110 3 credit hours rain and light winds. Early re­miles northeast of eentral
PHIL 246 01 1622 
ENGL 312 02 2654 IIPS 471 01 2371 Econ 301! Econ 302 Pre-Req.' ports had cited heavy rain. Zurich in northern Switzerland.
PHIL 261 01 1626 
ENGL 314A 01 2377 MI 407 01 2714 MWF 09:05-09:55 time chg
PSY 347 01 2879 
ENGL 3198 01 0828 RLST 240 22 9522 ENGL 340 01 0833 RLST 240 24 9524 ENGL 383 01 2661 RLST 240 26 9526 ENGL 384A 01 2662 RLST 240 27 9527 ENGL 392C 01 2663 RLST 240 28 9528 ENGL 413E 01 2667 RLST 247 43 9543 ENGL 415 01 2668 RLST 312 48 9548 ENGL 4150 01 2669 RLST 335 52 9552 ENGL 4160 01 2670 RLST 366 54 9554 ENGL 420 01 2672 ROFR 103 02 1383 ENGL 4338 01 2675 RU 362 01 2869 ENGL 452 01 2679 soc 220 01 3030 
Give to the United Way . 
• 


~ -~--­
page 6 
SECURITY BEAT 

MONDAY, NOV. 12TH 
8:30 a.m. A University employee re­ported the theft of equipment from a van parked north of the Security building sometime between Nov. 9 and Nov. 11. 
8:51 a.m. A Siegfried Hall resident re­ported a seeing a suspicious person in a restroom in Siegfried Hall. 
11 :45 a.m. A University employee re­ported the theft of furniture and equip­ment from the University Support Ser­vices warehouse on St. Vincent Street at South Bend Avenue. 
2:15 
p.m. A Grace Hall resident re­ported the theft of his bicycle from out­side Badin Hall on Nov. 9. 

2:15 
p.m. A Zahm Hall resident re­ported the theft of his wallet from a locker in the Rockne Memorial. 


9 p.m. Two Cavanaugh Hall residents reported the theft of their jackets, sweats, watches and wallets from out­side the racquetball courts at the Joyce ACC. 
TUESDAY, NOV. 13TH 
2:45 p.m. A Security employee reported vandalism to two cars in the north D-2 lot. 
5:05 p.m. A University faculty member reported the theft of a textbook from an office in Stepan Chemistry Hall. 
5:30 p.m. An off-campus student re­ported the theft of her coat from the clothes rack by the women's restroom in the basement of the Law School. 
6:25 p.m. A University employee re­ported five South Bend residents solicit­ing for money in the LaFortune Student Center. 
7:15 p.m. Two Dillon Hall residents reported receiving obscene and harass­ing phone calls for a period of over a month. 
1:45 a.m. A Domino's Pizza employee reported the theft of three pizzas and a delivery bag from his automobile outside of Pangborn Hall. 

EDUCATION 
FOR THE 


REAL WORLD 
Graduate degree programs (MA, PhD) in International Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy­relevant i&sues. 
AREA CONCENTRATIONS: Latin America, Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Interna­tional relations, Inter­american relations, inter­national business man­agement, comparative development, strategic and national security studies. 
Fellowships and other financial aid available. Apply by February 15. 
GRADUXI'E SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL SIUDIES 

UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI PO. BOX 248123 CORAL GABLES, FL 33124-3010 (305) 284-4173 

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
teaches that, while violence is 
evil, the obligation to avoid this 
evil is conditional," he said. 
Williams said that a 
"national, Catholic, research 
university," such as Notre 
Dame, definitely has a mission 
to educate those who aspire to 
serve in the United States mili­
tary. "To educate young men 
and women to serve in the mili­
tary is no easy task," said 
Williams. 
"What better place to edu­cate such a leader than at the University of Notre Dame, a place that strives to educate the head as well as the heart?" he asked. 
Williams read a portion of 
the university's mission state­
ment and queried, "Should we 
have ROTC at Notre Dame?" He answered, "We would be be­traying our mission if we did not." 
Williams acknowledged that Jesus' teachings stress love of our enemies and nonviolent 

-~-­
The Observer 

struggle for justice, yet he said that there is more than one way to strive for the kingdom of God. Williams said, "All Chris­tians should be actively pursu­ing justice" and sometimes there must be violence in that 
pursuit of justice. 
Christians may feel that they are being pulled in two direc­tions and an issue such as ROTC at a Catholic university may seem to present a conflict in values, said Williams. He ex­plained that violence is a legit­imate last resort and stressed, "justice seems to demand the defense of innocent persons, even if we must use violence." 
As an example of violence be­ing "clearly the lesser of two evils," Williams mentioned Hitler's regime. "What if we hadn't used violence against Hitler?" he asked. In cases such as that, Williams said violence is justifiable because the alter­native outcome would have been worse. 
In defending the fact that military training does advocate killing, Williams said, "There are worse things than death and one is not having freedom." 


Rights 
continued from page 4 
The first alternative raises the question of matters which du Lac calls "serious or sensi­tive or [that] involve pastoral concerns." In these cases, the repQrt allows for disciplinary conferences with Administra­tors like the ones that are held now. 
The second alternative would make the same provisions for pastoral concerns and serious and sensitive matters, and would lead to the abolition of Hall J-Boards. "It would also lead toward a standardization of rules and sanctions within the district; something that is much needed," said the report. 
The third recommendation attempts to clarify the rule on "serious and sensitive matters and pastoral concerns." 
As du Lac stands, students involved in in-hall violations have the choice to have their case heard by the hall J-Board or by the hall Rector. An excep­tion to this rule is made for se­rious and sensitive matters and pastoral concerns, in which case the Rector can choose to handle the case. 
The report asks that· "a stricter definition of 'serious 
Thursday, November 15, 1990l 
and sensitive matters and pas­toral concerns' be developed so that Hall Judicial Boards be­come more active." 
This provision was included in the report in the event that O'Hara accepts the University­wide Judicial Board, said Singh. 
"If she adopts the idea of dis­
trict J-boards, this recommen­
dation isn't needed," he added. 
The final recommendation of the report would assign the duty of coordinating the new judicial procedures to the Stu­dent Government Judicial Coor­dinator (currently Sanchez.) 
"We recommend that the duty of Judicial Coordinator be ex­panded to include working with Residence Life to set the dock­ets for University level J­Boards," the report said. 
This last recommendation would force the Judicial Coor­dinator to take on more official duties, said Singh. 
"We're trying to tell the Ad­ministration that while we are proposing all of these changes," said Singh, "we're not afraid to take on the re­sponsibility of running this." 


Come See Apple's New Macintosh Products 
And... Enter a drawing for a free Macintosh SE/30 worth over $3,000 
To enter simply complete the cr~word puzzle that appeared in Monday's edition of the Obse!Ver and bring it to the event on Thursday. Answers to the crossword puzzle are in the AppleNews newsletter which is being distributed to every dorm on campus. Entries must be turned in between 7:00 and 8:00pm during the event. The drawing will be held at 8:30pm. You must be present to win. 

And... Explore the capabilities ofMacintosh computers. 
Representatives from Apple Computer, Inc. will be on hand to answer questions about the Macintosh Classic, LC, Ilsi or any other products. The entire line of Macintosh computers will be on display. Plus, representatives from Quark, Macromind, Claris, Microsoft and Adobe will be present to demonstrate their products. And, members of MadMacs will showcase HyperCard 2.0, music/MIDI applications and multimedia applications. 
Thu~ NOimJJH 15, l!lXJ 
11xrrlores 

7:00pm-900pm 
,_

.® 
Apple Computer, Inc. 
MADMACi, Noo-elAme-MklmnaUierGrwp 
If you have any questions about the event or the contest please contact Apple Student Representative Rob Cain (x3SHO) or Dan Shinnick (x22H7l. 


Thursday, November 15, 1990 

Panel members regret late report on AIDS treatment 
WASHINGTON (API -Some members of a scientific panel said Wednesday they should have moved faster to draft guidelines for adding steroids to the treatment of a killer pneumonia in people with AIDS. 
"In retrospect, it should have happened more quickly," said Paul Meier, professor of statis­ties at the University of Chicago and vien chairman of the panel that convened last May. 
AIDS activists also said the pam1l took too long, but federal medical officials said these critics wen1 disregarding some important facts. 
Still other panel members said thn approval process could not have been significantly speeded up. 
The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases on Oct. 10 sent an alert to physicians informing them that recent studies had found benefits among some patients with l'neumocycstis carinii pneumo­nia whose treatment was sup­plemented with steroids. 
FULl SERVICE FLORIST 
Bouquets Piants Balloon Stuffing Corsages Dish Gardens Boutonnieres 

p-----------------------·
110°/o OFF CASH AND CARRYJ I with SMC or NO student ID 1 
1be OO!Mfnos JllaU



------------------------·J 
South ol University Fark l'lall 
211• ) 2 9 

5901 Grape Rd. 24-hour answering service Mishawaka. IN 4654~ 
'~~~!!~~!!~~-~~!!~~~~~~~~~~~ 

invites you to pamper yourself and indulge in the 
Color Me Beautiful"' 
11 ULTIMATE HOUR11 A f'• RSONALIZED MAKE UP AND WARDROBE COLOR CONSULTATION 
• 
Discover Your Season with our exclusive color analysis. 

• 
Find the Secret to Younger Looking Skin with a skin assessment and individualized regimen. 

• 
Learn Your Best Make Up Colors to enhance your natural beauty during a complete makeover. 

• 
Determine Your Best Wardrobe Colors and how to wear them. 


Call now for your personal appointment with our certified 
Color Me Beautiful Consultant. Nancy Flahaven Certified Color & Make-up Consultant 
First Bank Building 205 W. Jefferson Suite 507 SoutbRend IN 46601 (219) 289-8722 We validate parking tickets *Offer expires 12/.U/90 

COLOR ME BEAUTIFUL 
~"''"'"'"' 

Steroids are known to weaken the immune system, and AIDS is a disease of a col­lapsing immune system. 
The letter, sent to 2,600 med­ical practitioners, was based on the findings of the 17-member panel organized by the institute and the University of California at San Diego. 
Mike Merdian, executive di­rector of the National Associa­tion of People with AIDS, said the five months it took the panel to come up with its rec­ommendations was "unconscionable" and "unethical" but not unusual. 
"We've long said there are many therapies available we're not aware of," he said. 
But the chairman of the panel rejected the criticism and said the time it took members to analyze the studies was well spent trying to agree on the wording of any recommenda­tions as to which patients would benefit most from steroid treatment, in what doses and for what period of time. 
Bouquets Arrangements Fresh anci Sil 
The Observer 
page 7 
AP Photo

Lone protestor 
Com~dian Dick Gregory marches in front of the White House during a one-man demonstration against Pres1dent Bush's expected veto of the Civil Rights Bill. The House and Senate passed the bill last week but fell short of the two-thirds majority that would be needed to override the veto. 

Panel discusses women's role and merits of ordination of women in the Church 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI News Writer 
Religious devotion is in­versely proportional to a woman's desire to obtain ordi­nation, according to research data presented by senior Julie Shadd, a member of the panel which discussed the position of women in the Catholic Church last night. 
Shadd said that women more involved in the Catholic Church are the ones intimidated by the thought of being ordained. This is a fear based on the socializa­tion of the church in which women are typically subordi­nate. 
According to Shadd, "we need 
to realize that there may come
a point when the (church) doc­trine is irreconcilable with the needs and desires of modern women." 
Shadd added that her genera­tion may be affected by changes 
First Impressions... Are Often The Difference Between Employment &Unemployment. 
Your resume is an important part ofyour first efforts to get an interview or . a job. ~fit looks bad-you look bad. ~ou can't afford to make apoortmpress1on. Our knowledge and expertiSe can make the difference. We make sure your resume makes agood first impression. Give us acall at 239-7471 or stop by our office at 314 LaFortune Student Center. 
E2Httm observer typesetting ffiEffiB 
in church doctrine if women begin to speak out now. 
"Sometimes I have found in discussion of the woman's or­dination issue, that theology smuggles its way in too quickly and may cloud what I see as some of the key issues," said panelist Clark Power, associate professor in the Program of Liberal Studies. 
Power maintained that "the failure to ordain (women) is an injustice." He said, according to theologians, "the ordained min­istry is not privileged, it is not high status, it does not hold power-it is a service." 
"Obviously, in the Catholic Church ordained ministers do have power," said Power. 
He pointed out that at the latest Synnod, bishops agreed that there was no apparent problem with the priesthood, yet no women were involved in that decision-making process. 
Power also discredited the argument that men are more moral than women by referring to studies of morality tests. He noted that in most cases women and men with equal educations tested to be equally moral. 
According to Power inequality breeds immorality based on the process of power assertion while equality encourages mu­tuality and shared power. 
Power suggestnd that "such a community (as the church) may effectively keep its members in line but it will be ineffective as a moral teacher." 
Power concluded by compar­ing the subject of the ordination of women in the Catholic Church to the subject of an al­coholic father in a family. He pointed out that the family of an alcoholic usually avoids the topic just as the church tnnds to avoid the topic of the ordination of women. 

AP Photo A woman yielding a knife is overpowered by VIP security guards as she tries to attack a man, far left, during Monday's security drill at the Akasata Guest House in Tokyo as Japan prepared for the coronation ceremonies of Emperor Akihito. 
Correction 
Due to an error in a press release there was a mistake in a story about the Center for the 
Homeless  in  Wednesday's  
Observer.  Mrs.  Duggan  is  
pursuing  a  doctorate  in  

oncological nursing at the University of Texas-Austin, not San Antonio. 
ftAmerican·Heart"VAssociation 
Thursday, November 15, 1990
The Observer 

Inventor reaches agreement with Ford Motor Co. over windshield wiper patent 
DETROIT (AP) -The inven­tor of the pausing windshield wiper agreed Wednesday to ac­cept $10.2 million from Ford Motor Co. to settle a 12-year­old lawsuit for patent in­fringement. 
Robert Kearns' agreement sends a signal to 19 other au­tomakers he has sued, claiming they violated his patent for in­termittent windshield wipers. 
Chrysler Corp. may be the next defendant up for trial, a Kearns attorney said. Chrysler said it is ready. 
"Because of the Ford settle­ment, we're encouraged that we will probably be able to reach agreement with Kearns without extended litigation," Chrysler spokesman Tom Houston said. He would not elaborate. 
Ford attorney Malcolm Wheeler said the settlement re­solves all disputes between the company and the 63-year-old Kearns. 
"We're pleased to be done with the litigation," Wheeler said. "We still believe that if we had another shot at it, the patents would have been held invalid. We think this is an ex­tremely reasonable settlement." 
Kearns said the size of the award was beside the point. 
"I don't think the goal was the magnitude of the money," Kearns said after he signed the settlement in U.S. District Judge Avern Cohn's courtroom. "What I saw (as) my role was to defend the patent system. If I don't go further, there really isn't a patent system." 
Intermittent windshield wipers, now standard or op­tional equipment on nearly all cars sold in the United States, automatically start and stop at intervals. 
Bill Durkee, an attorney for Kearns, said Chrysler probably would be the next legal target, but he also said Chrysler has agreed not to dispute the valid­ity of Kearns' patents. 
Durkee said the $10.2 million settlement, of which his firm is expected to get 30 percent to 40 percent, was a good deal for Ford. 
"I think Ford got away with more than they should," Durkee said. "They made a profit from their infringement." 
It has been estimated that dealers have sold about 20 mil­lion Ford, Lincoln and Mercury cars equipped with intermittent wipers. 
If the Ford settlement pattern were followed with Chrysler's estimated 13 million cars with intermittent wipers, it would work out to about $4.3 million. 
Kearns. who lives in Houston. claimed in his lawsuit that he installed intermittent wind­shield wipers on a 1962 Ford Galaxie and took it to the au­tomaker. 
Kearns, a professor at Wayne State University in Detroit at the time, said he was led to be­lieve by the nuJHL .Jr of ques­tions company engineers asked that Ford would buy his inven­tion. 
But that did not happen and Kearns sued. 
During the course of the liti­gation one mistrial was de­clared after a jury was unable to decide on an award. In a re­trial, Kearns left Cohn's court­room after writing an angry letter to the judge and disap­peared for several days. 
Now, with the settlement money due in an escrow ac­count by the end of the week, Kearns said he plans to pay off some legal debts and perhaps buy a house in Texas. And he will continue the legal battles to protect his patent. 
"They (lawyers) are running a business," he said. "I'm running a cause." 
Alex's-An Old Time Tradition 
Alex's Shoe Hospital has been serving the Notre Dame community since 1919. You can't take the streetcar anymore, but today's quick trip downtown still rewards you with caring, friendly service (often while you wait) and old time craftsmanship. 


Keep your feet in shape by trusting your footwear maintenance needs to Alex's Shoe Hospital. 
-~­



SHOE·HOSPITAL 

115 West Washington Downtown South Bend Dally 7:30-5:30, Saturday 9:00 to 1:00 
Telephone 288-2188 








CAMPOS VIEW APAR,.MEN,.S 
HAPPY ,.HAIKSGIVIIG 
Now taking applications 
Furnished Apartments Indoor pool Exercise Equipment 
lf..FOR 


and Jacuzzi Spa 
INFORMATION CALL 272-1441 




Business 
Thursday, November 15, 1990 page 9 
Retailers waiting for the Grinch Days of 'fast buckaroos' Christmas sales expected to be 'pretty lousy' gone forever for S&Ls 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Hetail 
sales growth slowed to a barely 
perceptible 0.1 percent in Octo­
ber, the government said 
Wednesday, prompting ana­
lysts to prediet that the holiday 
gift-buying season will be a 
bust. 
''I think holiday sales are go­
ing to be pn~tty lousy," said 
tlcorHJmist Bruce Steinberg of 
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets 
in New York. "Compared to 
ChristmasPs past, it's just not 
going to look very good." 
Economist Sandra Shaber of tlw FuturPs Group in Washing­ton agn~ml. basing her opinion on two months of declining salns at dnpartment and cloth­ing stores-often gauges of consumer sentiment. 
"Consumers have a limited budget." she said. "With thn rapid detHrioralion of the job market and morH inflation, consumers just simply have less money to spend." 
Tlw Commercn Department said sales totaled a seasonally adjusted $152.3 billion, up from $152.1 billion in Septem­ber. But like the previous two months, sales were artificially inflated by high gasoline prices, not volume. 
In fact, the department said sales actually fell 0.1 percent in October when gasoline pur­chasns were excluded. The price of gasoline has spiraled since the Aug. 2 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait disrupted world oil markets. 
Analysts saw the report as furth(~r evidence of weakness in an economy that many believe is now in a recession. Hetail sales represent about half of all consumer spending which itself accounts for two-thirds of the nation's eeonomie activity. 
Ms. Shaber predicted a repeat of last year's holiday shopping season, when many retailers cut prices and offered other promotions to lure consumers to their salesrooms. 
"It's really a very, very pro­motional Christmas already," she said. "We have too many stores and too many malls now being aggravated by the erosion of household purchasing power." 
Retailers depend on the holi­day shopping season for about half of their sales and profits. 
Automobiles, which represent about 20 percent of retail sales, slowed to a 0. 7 percent gain from a 2.9 percent increase in Septnmbnr. But Steinberg said unit salns were down in Octo­ber. suggesting the increase represented higher prices for new-model-year cars. 
Excluding the auto category, overall retail sales were un­changed from the previous month. 
Sales of durable goods, which include cars and other items expected to last more than three years, rose 0. 7 percent, just half of their 1.4 percent gain a month earlier. 
Purchases of building mate­rials rebounded 1.5 percent from a 1.5 percent drop in September, but sales of furni­ture and other home furnish­ings fell 0.3 percent. 
Non-durable sales, such as food and gasoline, slipped 0.2 percent after rising 1.2 percent the previous month. 
Gasoline service station sales were up 3.2 percent after in­creases of 5.6 percent in September and 7 percent im­mediately after the August in­vasion. 
Bankruptcy appears inevitable for Eastern 
NJ·:W YOHK lAP) -Eastern i\irlirws bnggnd a bankruptcy judgP for rnon• cash WndrH'sday to stay aliw. hut cn~ditors dn­maiHIPd that tlw carrier dose down. st>ll whatnvt>r assets re­main and pay at lnast part of its Pnormous dPbt. 
l·:astnrn's  trustne,  Martin  
Shugrun.  asked  U.S.  
Bankruptcy  .Judgn  Burton  

l.ifland to lnt tlw airlinn have $:HI million from an escrow ac­C'ount imnwdiattdy, $40 million in latn l>twPmhnr and $10 mil­lion in early January. 
Tlw irnnwdiat•~ cash from the aeeount of $273.6 million would keep Eastern operating through Dt>ePmher, Shugrue said. lin prmlietnd thn carrier, which has bnen in bankruptcy court siru~n a crippling strike bngan in March 19H9, should be ahln to turn its losst1s around narly rwxt year. 
Thn airlinn's unsm~ured cmdi­tors, including banks. labor unions and airplane manufac­turNs. said Eastnrn has virtu­ally no chance of bncoming vi­abhl. 
In a response to Eastnrn's n~qunst for the money, the creditors asked the judge to dose Eastern so it can be liqui­dated. The creditors said East­nrn's nconornic performance has repeatedly fallen short of Shugrue's projections. 
They worried that if any more money is handed out to keep Eastern alive, there would not bn nnough left to oversee an orderly liquidation of assets, inrluding planns and gate rights at major U.S. airports. 
Shugrue criticized tiH~ eredi­
tors for sneking liquidation, 
saying many of the airlinn's as­
sets would lose value if it were 
forend to sell them out of des­
peration. 
The two sidns prnsented their eases at a jammed hearing in Lif1and's Manhattan court­room. It was unclear when the judge would rule. 
Shugrue, a veteran airline ex­ecutive who was named by the court to run Eastern seven months ago, has sought to woo travelers with an aggressive marketing campaign that in­cludes heavily discounted seats for vacationers and first-class upgrades for anyone paying full eoach fare. 
Miami-based Eastern's traffic figures show more passengers are flying the airline, but it's still confronting enormous ob­stacles besides angry creditors and a debt exceeding $1 billion. 
We're Fighting Filr Your Life. 
American Heart Association 

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) ­The era of "fast buckaroos" is over in the savings and loan business, and the gov­ernment needs to work now on attracting private in­vestors to thrifts, the new chairman of the S&L trade group said Wednesday.
Seasonally adjusted, billions of dollars 154 152 150  
148  
146 ~~-~~~~~~~.-~~144 -~~--..~~~~~~~~~ 142 ~~~~~~~.-~~~ 140 138 --~~~~~~~~~~~~ 136 --~~~~~~~~~..~ 134 ~~~.-~~~~~~~~~ 0 •••••••••••• NO JFMAMJJASO 1989 1990 Oct. '89 Sept. '90 Oct. '90 l$14s.2ll$1s2.1lls1s2.31  

S&L rescue legislation en­acted 15 months ago has succeeded in ending thrifts' irresponsible growth, Don­aid Shackelford told the U.S. League of Savings Associa­tions, which completed its 98th annual convention. 
"The new guys coming in. the fast buckaroos-that's over," he said. 
However, the new law has failed to attract the in­vestors needed to reduce the government's risks, he said. Surviving S&Ls must attract new capital if taxpayers are to be insulated from future losses. 
"The only way to get the government out is to get pri­
Source: U.S. Dept. of Commerce AP 
vate capital in. There aren't three sources. It's either pri­vate money or the govern­
But department store sales ment's money. There is nowere down 0.6 percent after a tinkerbell coming to put
1.1 percent Joss the prev.ious 
money in," he said. 
month, while apparel purchases 
Shackelford, a Harvard
declined 1.0 percent following Business School graduate, isSeptember's 1. 7 percent drop. 
chairman of State Savings Bank in Columbus, Ohio, one
Sales at restaurants and bars of the strongest S&Ls in the
were off 0.3 percent from a 0.4 
nation.
percent increase a month ear­He is vaulting over thelier. 
head of Robert O'Brien, chairman of Carteret Sav­But purchases at drug stores ings Bank, Morristown, N.J., 
rose 1.6 percent after a 0. 9 who asked to remain as
percent gain in September. 
league vice chairman while he works to solve the debt
"People are taking more 
problems of Carteret's
aspirin because they're more holding company. 
worried," Steinberg suggested. 
Shackelford, who was shunned by the league's leaders after he warned in 1985 that the insurance fund backing deposits was bankrupt, told S&L execu­tives that league policy now must coincide with public policy. 
Last year's law is forcing thrifts to increase their capi­tal and "we want capital standards that are as high as anybody who takes your mother's money, depositors' money," he said. 
Regulators file billions in claims against Drexel 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Fed­eral savings and loan regula­tors filed claims Wednesday for $6.8 billion against Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. alleging the firm plun­dered more than 40 failed 
thrifts  through junk  bond  
dealings.  
The  filing  in  U.S.  

Bankruptcy Court charges that the collapsed Wall Street investment bank en­gaged in bribery, coercion, extortion, fraud and other il­legal activities that created huge losses for the savings and loans. 
The Federal Deposit In­surance Corp. and the Heso­lution Trust Corp. said they would seek to recover $750 million from Drexel and former Drexel junk-bond leader Michael Milken from two separate federal restitu­tion funds. 

AP Photo 

Sold-to the millionaire in the front row 
Renier's 'Enfant Assis en Robe Bleue (Portrait d' Edmund Renier Jr.)' sold at auction at Southeby's in New York Tuesday for $7.04 million. This painting was part of the Greta Garbo estate collection. 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, November 15, 1990 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-53L"J 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 


Recyclable materials belong in campus collection bins 
f Dear Editor: consciences of students so im­lightly on our fragile planet. a mature and responsible our children must first begin r Why is it that, although there mature that each person's hand A great deal of the recyclable attitude toward recycling in with each individual. r is a 5-bin recycling center be­must be held along the pathway items on campus are collected, particular, and the environment 
r 
hind Alumni/Senior Club as well of waste reduction, reuse, and and that is commendable. But in general, by taking full So I send out a challenge and 
as recycling collection bins lo­energy and resource conserva­with recycling collection bins advantage of the program? a plea to our own Notre Dame 
cated in every dorm, in the din­tion? located in virtually every nook Recycling is only one of the community: Take full advan­
ing halls, and at virtually every I find it hard to believe, espe­and cranny on campus, there is many conscience actions that tage of the recycling program 
classroom building exit, I con­cially in light of the recent bar­absolutely no excuse for any must become everyday habit in that has been established, en­
tinue to see an appalling num­rage of media attention, that at newspaper, can or bottle to be order to preserve our precious thusiastically support other ef­
ber of newspapers on food trays an institution of higher educa­thrown away. The real "work" environment. Because of our forts to change values and 
or in trash cans along with tion students do not 1) recog­of recycling has already been diverse backgrounds from habits that affect the environ­
countless aluminum cans and nize the benefits and necessity done, thanks to the Recyclin' communities all over the nation ment, and be conscious of every 
glass bottles? These recyclable of recycling, 2) think about the Irish who worked with the ad­and around the world, our indi­one of your own actions. 
materials are almost always environmental consequences of ministration to get the program vidual actions can and do have 
thrown away not more than a every action, and 3) feel per­implemented and continue to global effects. A world com­Amy Jenista 
few steps from a collection bin. sonally obligated to act in handle collections. Is it too munity effort to secure a stable Breen-Phillips Hall 
Are the environmental whatever way possible to tread much to ask that students adopt environment for ourselves and Nov. 14, 1990 
The Viewpoint Department welcomes
Negative, slanted coverage disregards 
submissions from any and all members of the Notre Dame /Saint Mary's community. 
cross country team's successful season 
You don't have to be a regular writer or a
~ 
Dear Editor: The culmination of this nega­credit is due.
r 
member of The Observer staff to submit a
r The women's cross country tive portrayal was printed in Additionally, the reporter has 
team has recently completed the Monday, Nov. 12, edition of chosen to focus repeatedly on
r 
column. Voice your views and make a
their most successful season the Observer in reference to the sub-par performances by cer­
r 
r since the team achieved varsity women's "distant fifteenth place tain individuals. It is the job of difference-write Viewpoint at P.O. Box Q, 
~ status five years ago. However, finish" in their NCAA District the reporter to report the facts 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
r this achievement has gone un­championship. Richard of the competition with minimal 
r noticed in light of the coverage Mathurin's statement that there emphasis on subjective opin­which the women's team re­"were no highlights for the ions. Any opinions should be Minority survey requires input ceived from the Observer Irish" merely reflects the directly associated with the throughout the course of the attitude with which the re­opinions of those involved (i.e. Dear Editor: nancial aid, campus ministry season. porter has approached his arti­team members, coach, etc.). Notre Dame Student and counseling. Although the women did suf­cles throughout the season. We earnestly feel that this Government works closely with In order to quantify opinions fer an opening season loss to One particular heading on an negativism may be a result of the Administration and the and gain valuable insights, the national power Georgetown, it article which previewed the the ignorance of the reporter Board of Trustees in providing Committee is sending out two 
r was not necessary to repeatedly women's Indiana Intercollegiate regarding the sport of cross a student voice to policy issues surveys. One survey will be sent 
r mention this loss in all subse­meet read to the effect that the country. In light of this fact, concerning student life. One ef­randomly to members of the 
r 
quent articles. The purpose of Irish were favored "for once." perhaps a change of reporters fective way that Student undergraduate student body. journalism is to report in an Not only is this a poorly would solve the aforementioned Government presents issues to Another survey will be sent unbiased fashion. We do not constructed grammatical problems. the Board of Trustees is specifically to minority stu­feel that this purpose was suc­statement, it is unnecessarily If, however, it is the through reports. dents.
[ cessfully accomplished by the derogatory in nature. In Observer's intention to portray At the February Board of A high response rate to these Observer in its coverage of the another instance of negative the women's cross country Trustees meeting, Student surveys is imperative. We ask 1990 season. Perhaps the ig­language, the follow up article team in a negative light, we feel Government will present a re­for your help. Please take the norance which was portrayed on the Intercollegiates was that this is not only unfair but port on minority students. This time to complete and return the in the articles rests solely in the worded "Irish aren't short sighted on the part of a report will be the culmination surveys. Your input is an essen­assigned reporter's coverage. disappointed after second-place journalistic body. of months of research by a tial part of the report. However, the Observer has a finish." Terese Lemanski -captain committee of students. The Gina Mahony responsibility to place knowl­While we are aware that the Amy Blaising committee is examining various Chairperson edgeable reporters on the re­reporter does not make up the ND Women's Cross Country areas of student life concerning Board ofTrustees spective teams which they titles to the articles, we feel that Team minorities, including residence Report on Minority Students 
cover.
~ 
r 
DOONESBURY
r 
r 
Yts, '31/<... YW

YOU HAVE-A
r 
54YON& OFOUR

QU&STION, 
081Ef(;nves 1'3

50Witl<.~ 
7H& &STABUSH­

I 
M&NT OF PeA(£ 
ANO '3TABIUTYIN 7H&R&610N,.. 

credit should be given where Nov. 13, 1990 life, the admissions process, fi-Nov. 14. 1990 
BUT YO, SIR, I GOTTA {,(}(}N0/3R WHAT HOP& /XtS A SMAU-aJN­
TIN6f3NT OFOUTSIOCRS HAVe 
OF fJOING WHAT THe tJXAt.. FOPt.J­
LATIONS HAVe 8/ZN UNABU3 TO 
{)() FOR. THeM5aV5 FLY? N&AI<t..Y 
4,tXXJ Yt=AI<'3 z 
"" 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
NOTREAL/...'1,
'30. YOU'Ve 

SIR. JUST TH& 
'A mind is a terrible thing.' 
ReAD 

IN-FU6HT
HISTORY, 

MAGAZINe. / 50N. I 
Dan Quayle 





Accent
Thursday, November 15, 1990 
page 11 

BY PAUL WASINGER hundred former Notre Dame 
Accent Writer Glee Club members. The present sixty-three member The Notre Dame Glee Club chorus will be joined on stage
Alumni reunite with 
will bn presenting its seventy­in the second act by an fifth annual Fall Concert on additional two hundred and Friday night at St11pan Center. fifty alumni members to form a This year's concert. however, rollicking musical onslaught. 

Glee Club 
will be a special performance 
as it will reunite the group The Glee Club, since its intro­with over 200 former members duction in 1915, has repre­to comrnemoratn the silver an­sented the University in thou­

for 75th anniversary 
nivnrsary of the all-male cho­sands of performances nation­rus. wide. Most recently the Glee Under thn guidance of the dy­Club concluded a six concert, 
namk conductor Carl L. Starn, eight day tour of the East Coast who is in his tenth year at held over Fall Break. Notm Damn. tlw Ginn Club will Highlighting this trip was a bn prnsnnting an I'Xciting and special performance on the divnrs1~ rnpertoirn of selections morning talk show, "Live With ranging from black spirituals to Regis And Kathy Lee," the popular American folk songs. In Tuesday following the Irish addition to both the spiritual football victory over Miami. The 
and secular music slated, the men's chorus preformed two 
Gle1~ Club will also preform songs live: "Irish Backs," as Franz Biehl's "Ave Marie" as well as "The Notre Dame well as thn ever popular Notre Victory March," the latter di­Damn Football songs. rected by host Hegis Philben. 
"This promises to be a very Under the delightful direction exciting and enjoyable show," of Starn, the Seventy-Fifth said Kevin Hoffman, Publicity Annual Fall Concert is sure to Manager of the Glee Club. be an entertaining musical ad­"Dirnctor Stam is an energetic venture. The concert is sched­
conductor and audiences are uled for Friday, November 16 at usually excited because of his 8:15p.m. in Stepan Center. vitality." Tickets are currently on sale at the LaFortune Ticket Office 
The Glee Club's Anniversary for $3; student tickets may be Concert is also unique in the purchased for $2. Tickets may fact that it will serve as a re­also be purchased at the door union concert for over two the night of the concert. 
Comic book hero stars as 'The Flash' on CBS 
Marc Johnson 
To Be Continued ... 
Orw key to a successful tnlevision series may be the ability of the program to rPITPatP situations that oceurred in the youth of the viewer. Although "The Wonder Years" has not demonstrated the quality of last year's episodes this season, the series eontinued popularity originates from its ability to present scenes universal to childhood. "The Flash" also functions in a similar manner. 
"The Flash" ean be seen on Thursday evenings at 8:30 P.M. on CBS. For much the same nmson that "Twin Peaks" could not obtain a popularity base on tlw Notrn I>anw campus. I firmly believe that no one will ever watch this program. "Cheers" will forever dominate our lives, but this continue reading this nvaluation of "The Flash" because it definitely is a program worth watching. 
Whiln "The Wonder Years" excites memories of youthful events, 'The Flash" presents the eomic book hero whose feats imitated as youths. The concept of the comic book hero is intrinsic to youth, and while you personally may not huvn had a closet bursting with old Fantastic Four comics, everyone pretnnded to bn Superman or Wonderwoman at one time or another. 
Tlw Flash may be a lesser known hero, but those familiar with the comic book scene claim that he is well-known in the inner circles, and his origins are common to all superheroes. 
"The Flash" uses the interchangeable parts of generations of comics. How did the Flash become the Flash? By an electrical storm creating an explosion in a scifmee lab, of course. Does the Flash have a girlfriend? Yes. Does she know of his powers? No, of eourse. Imagine a fast Spiderman who does not sling webs, and you have the Flash. 
The Flash is actually Barry Allen (John Wesley Shipp), a hard-working police dwmist in the Central City crime lab. His girlfriend Iris (Paula Marshall) has no due as to his identity. but she does know that her man is getting much closer to scientist Tina McGee (Amanda Pays). Tina is the one person who knows the secret powers that Barry possesses, and her assistance helps Barry deal with his more difficult situations. 
To deal with these situations the Flash has only his incredible speed, and as far as superhuman abilities go. This speed seems kind of weak. Despite this, Barry uses his talent fairly well in protecting the fair citizens of Central City. 
Barry Allen (John Wesley Shipp), a police chemist in Central City, holds a second identity, 
In this past week's episode the Flash saved his father from a criminal whom 
unknown even to his girlfriend, as 'The Flash.'
he arrested twenty years earlier. (Barry followed in the footsteps of both his father and brother when he chose to fight crime.) Hicks was this foul character's name, and as tough as he claimed to be, he was no match for the 
Calling all answering machine
rapid-lire punches of The Flash. Speed may seem dull compared to other 
-

possible powers, but it functions well in this particular series. 

aficionados: 
The nature of the true comic book hero also has a darker and more secretive side as may be witnessed in Michael Keaton's portrayal of Batman. This series is missing this harsh and multi-dimensional side of its main 
Do you have an interesting, unique, or downright 


character, and this fact is somewhat disappointing. "The Flash" presents a 
distasteful message? 
-

superhero who is almost too good and extremely flat. 
However, these naws are easy to ignore because this character still  
maintains the viewer's interest, and the program adds the typically  Leave your phone number and name in the Accent  
overdramatic lines found in all good comics. All things considered, this trip down memory lane is quite pleasing.  mailbox, 3rd floor LaFortune before break.  

Thursday, November 15, 1990 

page 12 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be

Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
I NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 $$FOR BOOKS Used Texts bought and sold Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of ND ave and Howard  Single 2-Room Apt. Cheap 15 min. Walking from Campus Avail. Dec. 1 -May 31 Bob x3234 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, or 2 bedrm. house. Safe. turn., washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or 288-5653 EFFICIENCY APARTMENT, NEAR MEMORIAL HOSPITAL.  PLEASE HELP PLEASE ME PLEASE ! I HAVE RELATIVES COMING, AND NEED 4 PENN. ST. GA'S. I WILL PAY LOTS OF CASH FOR THEM. FLO x 1696 NEED PENNST TIX 287­2218,MIKE Help: I need 4 PSU Student Tix for  I Need three tickets for Penn State (stud orGA) Diane 277-9352 I REALLY NEED 4 PENN ST GA's PLEASE CALL JOHN x4141 MONEY IS NO OBJECT! HELP!! I need Penn St. GA's or stud tixs. Sue x4514  Need Penn St Stud & GAs Todd X1724 Need 1 USC ticket-X3731 I Need PSU Tix-Stud.or GA $$$Derek 234-3356$$$ 2 USCGA'S you want 'em, I got 'em scan4561 -serious offers  JUST Need ONE Penn stud. or GA kristin X3821 Desparately need 2 PENN ST. student tix. Big, Big Money. call Mike 233-7817 I need Grad. Tix, call Dan at 283­1795  
LOST/FOUND >>>LOST<<< BRACELET OF GOLD LETIERS which spell I LOVE YOU Obvious sentimental value REWARD 288-7976  FiRST FLOOR, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, FURNISHED, UTILITIES INCLUDED. $220. 233­8647. FOR SALE CANNON DALE 10 SPD RACING BIKE, LIKE NEW! MUST SELL! CALL JEFF:271-1722  NJ Bro's. Call Lee at 277-9365 NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's CALL x4285 $$$$$$BIG BUCKS PAID$$$$$$ FOR PENN STATE GA'S PLEASE CALL JEN X4827  ORANGE BOWL TICKETS CALL (800) 226-8499 I NEED YOUR STUDENT TIX FOR PENN ST.I PLEASE CALL LISA 4929 NOW! I NEED PENN ST  I'll take 2 PSU GA's please. John 234-5840 ############# Beer Pounding RICH Uncle Coming to NO. Need 1 GA for Penn State. Keven #2201 I NEED 2 PENN STATE TICKETS I  NEED Penn State STUDENT TICKETS--<:all Jen X3882 Help I I need 4 Penn St. GA's the P's and sibs are comin'! call Amy at 284-5461 NEED 4 PENN ST. GAs!!! -call Toby, x4010 I NEED PENN ST.  
LOST: A Gold Nugget Bracelet on Fri. 11/2 somewhere between P.W. and the lake. Please return -great sentimental value! ......REWARD......  FOR SALE 1985 BUICK REGAL VERY GOOD CONDITION 76,000 MILES ,2 DOOR,AC $3600. OR BEST OFFER. CALL 233-5316  I need Penn State GAs and student tickets. Call X1650.  GAs Chris x3451 HELP! I need Penn State GA's. will pay $$$. Call Meg at 284­4378 .  STUDENT OR GA. CALL BRIAN AT 273-1740 NEEDED: Two Penn St. GAs. Call Matt at 288-7568.  STUD+GAs @2287 I need 2 Penn St. GA's; call John at 272-7849 I need two Penn St. GA's  
call Kate or Amy at 4550.  I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE  4-sale. Penn stu.  I need Penn State GAs and studenttix. John 288-1768  call Joe X1599  
LOST: On Nov. 6, a gold pendant, possibly on Stepan Fields. but it could be anywhere on campus. It's a dove with three circles  NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­1364 FOR SALE!! Crate G-60 guitar amplifier ... mint condition,  NEED PENN ST. G.A. TIX. CALL JOE AT 287-4561 AFTER 6P.M.  chris x4828 NEEDED 1 GA or STUDENT tix for PENN. Please call John or Maureen 273-9165  NEED 4 PENN ST. GA's BIG$$$. after8pm. Rob 259-3268  I NEED 3 PENN STATE TIX STUD OR GA'S O.K CALL MIKE OR JEFF X1090 HELP!!! NEED 2 PENN ST. TIX  
around it, and it's about half an inch tall and half an inch wide. Please call Elizabeth at 40971 LOST: 2 footballs at Stepan field after the FARLEY/LEWIS game on Nov. 4. One says NVA 5 and the other says Jay Shrader. Call Kate @x4071. LOST LOST LOST LOST GREEN NO SPIRAL NOTEBOOK IN HURLEY ON THURSDAY 11/8/90. CONTAINS THEOLGY  tremendous sound ..... give-away price. 2 channels/built-in reverb/12"celestian speaker. A personal favorite of Yngwie Malmsteen, the cornerstone of his sound .... make it yours today .... Call #1732 and ask for Scott or Alex Lifeson. Gorgeous Brown 1980 Custom Dodge Van New clutch and muffler Interior completely carpeted Sunroof and rear ceiling vent Slant-6 engine and body in great shape Highway miles  BEFORE 11P.M. I want Penn State tix even more than YOU want Keenan Revue tix. I need 5. Call Ed@ 3317 I need STUD TIX for PENN ST!! Chris 273-9468 Help!! I need any 3 Penn St. tix. Call Mary at x1292.  NEED PENN ST. TIX (STUDENT AND GA'S) X1813 4 SALE USC GAs 272-9770 I need 2 Penn St. GAs Call Cory x271 8 Uncle coming in for the weekend! Need two Penn St. GA's! Call Dennis x1513 For sale: 2 PENN STATE GAs. Call 259-0539. Negotiable. Desperatly need Penn St tix  WE NEED PENN ST GA'S AND STDTIX CALL DAN OR PAT 234-8608 DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO PENN ST. STUDENT TICKETS! If you have tickets you're willing to sell please call Rob (x3580) TRUST ME, I NEED A PENN ST. TICKET MORE THAN THEY DO. PLEASE HELP, CALL JOHN AT 277-9648-WILL PAY$$$.  STUD OR GA CALL SEAN 2093 NEED TWO PENN STATE TIXS PLEASE CALL PETE 3376 I NEED A PENN STATE STUD CALL ALLISON #2569 I need Penn St tickets GAs and students Call Sam 4013 Need PENN STATE GAs and stud tix. Call Darrell at 283-3302. PENN STATE: Need several GAs.  
NOTES. IF ANY INFO. PLEASE CALL BARBARA AT X 4030, 235 FARLEY. LOST LOST A brown leather FOSSIL WATCH with a brown granite face was lost in La Fortune on Nov. 6 sometime between 8pm and 12am. I would really like to get it back because it was a gift from my Mom !I I'd really appreciate it if you would please call Karen 284-5023.  Call Mark x2506 ROUND TRIP TICKET­CHICAGO TO L.A., LV. 11/20, 7PM. RET. 11/2510:41PM.­$275. 273-9189 TICKETS TOP $ for Your Ga tix to all home games call277-9357 Patty WINDCHILL  Its this simple: I'll pay $200 for 4 PSU GAs. Call Russ 3379 I need Penn St. stud tix Chris x1751 All the Bucks! I I NEED 4 PENN STATE GAs call Jeff x1164 4 PENN ST. TIX-40 YR. LINE BEST OFFER I  (G.A.'s or stud) X1470-John W HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL 273-1364 $$$$$ I need 2 Penn State GA's Call Katie x3771 $$$$$ Need 2 Penn St GA's  For a really great Penn State student ticket, call x3033. I need 4 Penn State GA's, preferably together, but will settle for 2 pair. Call277-9358 evenings-Brad. Need two Penn State stud. tix call Jim at X1910orx1911 NEED 4 PSU GA'S  Please call 289-6046. Needed: 1 Penn State Student ticket. Contact Matt at 233-8959. I NEED 4 PSU STUD. TIX CALL BETH AT 233-9226 PENN STATE G.A.'s and STUD TIX NEEDED Please call Elizabeth at 271-1 893!!! HELP! I still need Penn GA's  
LOST, RED LOOSELEAF  FROSTBITE  CALL FRAN  X2784  Call Tim x1368  ARNOLD X3333 CALL LATE  call Molly x4189  
BINDER IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 234-7156 ACADEMIC LIFE AT STAKE!  NOV17 PENN ST Need I say more? Ryan need 2 stud tix x1048  HELP! NEED PENN $T. GA$ PLEASE CALL MIKE 273-9338  Need 4 Penn St GA's. Call x2891. NEEDGA'S  NEED PENN ST GAS CALL CHRIS X2274  Need Penn State Students Call Kevin or Mike at 271-8245 Two MARRIED student txs for  
11/21 LOST: A navy blue wool overcoat at the Walsh Formal at Union Station. If found please call 1560. >>>>> L 0 S T <<<<< Notre Dame Class Ring My full name and class (91) is inscirbed. Please call Mike at 237-0788 if you have found my ring. Thanks!  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Wealthy Physician to Pay Big Bucks for PENN STATE G.A.'s or STUDS x 1935 ask for Alex $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED PENN ST & Tenn tixs.272-6306 Need 4 USC tix Carrie x4355  PENN STATE TIX;need 1 student; call biII x3300 I need Penn State Tix Call John 258-0809 Need Penn State GAs -in a really bad way. Please call x1443, and leave a message. You have Penn St. GA's I have money Call me .... Sean x3597  PENN & USC 272-9770 Need tix for PENN ST. GAME. Will pay anything!!! Please Call Kerry at 284-5073 and leave message!!! BIG brothers coming and I need Penn State tickets! 3 GAs! $$$ Caryn 289-9417 Best time to call: 5-7pm. Need 2 Penn St. GA's. Call John  I NEED PENN ST. G.A.'S CALL X2012 HEY HEY HEY! . Make my day Sell me 2 Penn GA's thanks, X3821 I need PSU stud. tickets call 288-3354 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I Need PSU GA's  sale. Good as GAs. Call288 08 76 I need Penn St. tix Jeff x3320 NEED G.A. TICKETS FOR PENN ST!!! CHRIS x1067 BADLY NEED: 2 PENN ST GA'S FOR SISTER AND HER HUSBAND CALL DOUG XI 087  
WANTED HELP WANTED: Earn up to $700 wkly. Easy work, FT/PT, start immediately. Work at home. For info send SASEto: VicKorp, P.O. Box 750, Notre Dame, IN 46556.  I need your help. My high school teacher is a graduate from Indiana University. He's was pretty cool. I need at least two tickets to the IU/ND basketball game for him and a friend. (G.A. or stud tix). Please ....  I NEED PENN ST. TIX! 4 GA & 1 STUD CALL SHANNON @ 271-9260 SELLING 1 PennState Stud. Call Luis 2731528 NEED 1 PENN STATE STUD TIX  (x1177). We need LOTS of Penn St. GA's! Call Sara or Barb x4419 NEED PSU GA OR STUDENT TIX TERRI4837  Call 288-0597 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ MONEY I'LL GIVE YOU MONEY LOTS OF IT IF MONEY YOU CAN SELL ME HONEY PENN ST. GA'S. I NEED 4 OF THEM. PLEASE HELP ME. NEED I BEG? CALL  Need 2 PENN ST stud tix. Call Woody x4653 FOR SALE: 2 PENN STATE STUD TIX. 234-2728 PERSONALS  
Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading Books at home. Call 1-615-473-7440 Ext. B 340.  Give me a call and we can make a deal. Cris @4842 $$$$$  CALL MIMI X4034. FOR SALE 2 USC GA'S JIM (219) 659-3910  I Need Penn St tix, studs and GAs, call x3501 I NEED Penn St. tickets Student and GAs  FLO X 1696 Need PENN STATE GA's. Woody at x4653.  Call  hiag WAKEN' BAKE! SPRING BREAK JAMAICA/CANCUN FROM $429 ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL  
- OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer. Yr. round, All Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC. PO Bx 52­Corona Del Mar CA 92625 Need a ride to St, Louis , Mo for Thanksgiving. Will pay for gas, food. etc. Please! Call Ernesto 239-7735 or 7736.  Need 5 USC tix Call Arthur x1610 $$$$$ NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S. JOHN 271-0452. NEED: PENN ST. GA's call TRACY @273-9033  I need 1-2 Penn St GAs for my mom Please call Julie#2771 HELPII!I!I I need a ride to Canton, OH for Thanksgiving Break. Please give me a call. Kristina x4901 Need Penn St. GA'S call Kevin x1026 $$$  Call Mark at x2506 Help! I Need one Penn State GA for Poor Relative. Call Kevin 1589 Need 1 Penn. State GA, Stan 2742 NEED PENN TIX 4 GA's & 4 STUD.$$ MARI0#2440  WILL DO ANYTHING FOR PENN STATE GA's!! call Kristin at 284-4350 I NEED ONE PENN STATE STUD. CALL MIKE X4022 Have 2 USC GA's need 2 PSU GA's Bob x1081  FREE!! BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $30! 800-426-7710 Top five quotes from 438 KNOTI: 1. Are you majoring in PMS? 2. The mathematics goddess rules!! 3. Is the fridge clean? 4. Fear not, brave warrior I 5. Does he have big feet?  
-·  FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  I NEED PENN ST. GA'S PLEASE CALL X2049 NEED 4 PENST GA TIX-YOU NAME PRICE-IF  Need Penn St Tix 289-0922 Gavin Help!  WANTED: 2-4 GEN. ADM. TICKETS AT OR NEAR COST TO N.D.-PENN.ST. CALL MIKE AT 288-7361 OR 256-0969.  Please help! Mom is coming for Penn St. I have to get a GA. x2448, leave a message if no answer.  Paige, I've been secretly observing you from afar. You stir something in me! If I could only talk to you. signed, Your friend on the third floor  
NEAR N.D. Oupi9X available. 1 bdrm-$265 2 bdrm-$360 dep., references 616-483-9572.  TOGETHER=MORE $$ #1567 LARGE MARGE needs 2 G.A.s and 2 studs for PENN ST. 284­5201  Need 1 Penn St. Stu Ticket Call X1883 SELLING 2 PENN ST Stu Tixs 255-5283  need penn stu/ga jill2633 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED PSU GA'S-TOM x1653 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  3 GA'S OR 3 STUD. TX NEEDED TO PENN ST. GA'S MUST BE GROUPED. CALL 233-2651. I NEED PENN ST STUD & GAS!! CALL KEVIN @ 233-8959!  GO IRISH CREW GOOD LUCK IN PHILLY JUST DO IT!!!!!  

-

Thursday, November 15, 1990 Scoreboard 
page 13 
NHL STANDINGS 

NBA STANDINGS NFL STANDINGS .. 
All Times EST All Times EST All Times ESTEASTERN CONFERENCE 
WALES CONFERENCE AMERICAN CONFERENCEAll1nllc Division Patrick Division Eastw L Pet. GB w L T Pts GF GA w L T Pet. PF PABoston 5 2 .714 
New York 5 2 .714 NY Rangers 13 6 2 28 a3 52 Buffalo a 1 0 .aag 274 150 Philadelphia 11 a 1 23 Miami 8 1 0 .889 192 96
Philadelphia 4 3 .571 1 72 66
New Jersey a 1 71 N.Y. Jets 4 .400 216
Miami 3 3 .500 1 1/2 10 21 63 6 0 17a 
Washington 10 10 0 20 ndianapolis 3 6 0 .333 125 t96
Washington 2 4 .333 2 1/2 64 65 
Pittsburgh 9 7 2 20 79 66 New England 1 8 0 .111 130 257New Jersey 2 5 .2a6 3 NY Islanders 7 10 0 14 51 6a CentralCentral Division Adams Division Cincinnati 5 4 0 .556 212 225Milwaukee 5 2 .714 
Boston 10 6 3 23 57 61 Pittsburgh 5 4 0 .556 171 147Detroit 4 2 .667 1/2 
Montreal 8 64 Houston 5 .444 169
Cleveland 5 3 .625 1/2 10 2 22 63 4 0 194 
Buffalo 7 6 4 18 Cleveland 2 7 0 .222 12a 235
Atlanta 4 3 .571 1 58 50 
Hartford 6 9 3 15 44 57 WestChicago 4 3 .571 1 Quebec 3 14 3 9 51 a2 LA Raiders 6 3 0 .667 170 137Indiana 3 4 .429 2 
• Kansas City 5 4 0 .556 192 138Charlotte 3 5 .375 21/2 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE San Diego 5 5 0 .500 214 163 Norris Division Seattle 4 5 0 .444 175 1a2WESTERN CONFERENCE w L T Pis GF GA Denver 3 6 0 .333 197 224Mtdweat Division Chicago
w L Pet. GB 13 6 2 2a 69 47 
St. Louis 13 4 1 27 65 45 NATIONAL CONFERENCESan Antonio 3 2 .600 
Detroit 7 3 65 East
Dallas 4 3 .571 9 17 77
Minnesota 4 11 4 w L T Pet. PF PA
12 4a 69 Minnesota 3 4 .429 1 Houston 4 3 .571 
Toronto 4 16 1 9 59 99 N.Y. Giants 9 0 0 1.000 226 110 Smythe Division Philadelphia 5 4 0 .556 227 1a6Utah 2 3 .400 1 
Los Angeles 12 4 1 25 Washington 5 4 0 .556 199 t69
Orlando 1 6 .143 3 ?a 51 Denver 0 7 .000 
4 Calgary 12 7 1 25 86 62 Dallas 3 7 0 .300 125 204 Vancouver 9 
9 0 1a 54 61 Phoenix 2 7 0 .222 117 240 Winnipeg 7 10 2 16 60 Central Pacific Dlvlalon 
Portland 6 0 1.000 63 
2 6 Chicago 8 0 .aag 229
Phoenix 4 1 .aoo 11/2 Edmonton 11 2 39 51 1 126 Golden State 5 2 .714 11/2 
Tuesday's Games Green Bay 4 5 0 .444 176 196 
N.Y. Rangers 1, Philadelphia 1, tie Tampa Bay 4 6 0 .400 170 243Seattle 3 2 .600 21/2 New Jersey 6, Montreal 3 Detroit 3 6 0 .333 213 237LA Clippers 2 4 .333 4 Pittsburgh 4, Minnesota 1 Minnesota 3 6 0 .333 194 1aaLA Lakers 1 4 .200 4 1/2 St. Louis 4, Quebec 2 WestSacramento 0 5 .000 5 1/2 Wednesday's Games 
San Francisco 9 0 0 1.000 222 144 Late Games Not Included New Orleans 4 5 0 .444 171 164Wednesday's Games 
Chicago 3, Detroit 2 Atlanta 3 6 0 .333 232 251Late Game Not Included Hartford 3, Boston 1 LA Rams 3 6 0 .333 198 258Boston 135. Charlotte 126 Toronto 5, Washington 3Cleveland 113, Indiana 95 Pittsburgh at Winnipeg, (n)Miami 105, Dallas 93 
Vancouver at Edmonton, (n) Sunday, Nov. 1a
New Jersey 112, Milwaukee 95 Philadelphia 112, Atlanta 104 
Buffalo at Los Angeles, (n) Detroit at New York Giants, 1 p.m.Thursday's Games 
Houston at Cleveland, 1 p.m. Thursday'a Games Quebec al Boston, 7:35p.m. New England al Buffalo, 1 p.m. Montreal at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. New Orleans at Washington, 1 p.m. 
Phoenix at LA Clippers, (n) 
Utah at Orlando, 7:30p.m. 
Hartford at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. Philadelphia at Atlanta, 1 p.m.
Minnesota at Denver. 8:30p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Minnesota, a:35 p.m. San Diego at Kansas City, 1 p.m.
LA Lakers at Houston, a:30 p.m. 
N.Y. Islanders at Calgary, 9:35p.m. Chicago at Denver, 4 p.m.
Chicago at Golden State. 10:30 p.m. 
Friday's Games 
Dallas at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. Toronto at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Green Bay at Phoenix, 4 p.m. 
New York at Portland. 10:30 p.m. 
San Antonio at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
Friday's Games Chicago at Washington, a:05 p.m. Minnesota at Seattle, 4 p.m. Charlotte at Atlanta, 7:30p.m. N.Y. Rangers at Winnipeg, a:35 p.m. New York Jets at Indianapolis, 4 p.m. Utah at Boston, 7:30p.m. 
Buffalo at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. Tampa Bay at San Francisco, 4 p.m. 
N.Y. Islanders at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. Pittsburgh at Cincinnati. 8 p.m.
Milwaukee at Cleveland. 7:30p.m. Miami at Indiana. 7:30p.m. 
Monday, Nov. 19 Detroit at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. 
Los Angeles Raiders at Miami, 9 p.m. Washington at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. NL CY YOUNG LA Lakers at Dallas. a p.m. LA Clippers at Phoenix, 9:30p.m. NEW YORK (AP) -Voting for the 1990 National League Cy Young Award, with pitchers receiving five points lor each first-place vote, three points for second and one point for third: Player 1st 2nd 
9 0
3rd Total


APCOLLEGEFOOTBALLTOP25 Drabek. Pit 23 1 0 11a 
I Bowl Lineup '90-91 
Martinez, LA 1 21 
2 70 

,
.................................................................................................................................................
Viola, NY 0 2 
13 19 

The Schedule of the 19 mostGooden, NY 0 0 
B B

The Top Twenty Five teams In the Associated Press 1990 college football Myers. Cin 0 0 
prominent post season bowl poll, with first-place voles In parentheses, records through Nov. 10, total points based on 25 points for a first-place vote through one point for a 25th­
1 1 

Winners of the National League Cy Young place vote. and last week's rankings: Award as the outstanding pitcher: Record Pis Pvs 
1990-Doug Drabek, Pittsburgh
1. Notre Dame (55) a-1-0 1,495 1 19a9-Mark Davis, San Diego2.Colorado(5) 9-1-1 1,419 4 19aa--Orel Hershiser, Los Angeles3. Miami. Fla. 6-2-0 1,349 5 19a7-Steve Bedrosian, Philadelphia4. Georgia Tech a-0-1 1,207 7 1986-Mike Scott, Houston5. Brigham Young a-1-0 1 ,206 a 19a5--Dwlghl Gooden, New York
6. Florida a-1-0 1,163 10 19a4-Rick Sutcliffe, Chicago7. Texas 7-1-0 1,149 14 19a3--John Denny, PhiladelphiaB. Virginia a-1-0 1,064 11 1982-Steve Carlton, Philadelphia9. Florida St. 7-2-0 1,001 12 19a1-Fernando Valenzuela, Los Angeles10. Washington 8-2-0 992 2 1980-Steve Carlton, Philadelphia11. Nebraska 9-1-0 a97 13 1979-Bruce Sutter, Chicago 12. Houston a-1-0 806 3' 1978--Gaylord Perry, San Diego
13. Iowa 7-2-0 749 6 1977-Steve Carlton, Philadelphia14. Tennessee 5-2-2 725 9 1976-Randy Jones, San Diego15. MISSISSippi a-1-0 693 16 1975--Tom Seaver, New York16. Michigan 6-3-0 600 19 1974---Mike Marshall, Los Angeles17. Clemson 8-2-0 576 18 1973--Tom Seaver, New York1a Penn St. 7-2-0 495 21 1972-Steve Carlton, Philadelphia19. Southern Cal 7-2-1 323 23 1971-Ferguson Jenkins, Chicago20. Louisville 9-1-1 311 22 1970-Bob Gibson, St. Louis21. Ohio St. 6-2-1 304 1969-Tom Seaver, New York22. Illinois 6-3-0 236 17 1966-Bob Gibson, St. Louis23. Michigan St. 5-3·1 206 24 1967-Mike McCormick, San Francisco24. Auburn 6-2-1 172 15 1966-Sandy Koufax, Los Angeles25. Southern Miss. a-3-0 a5 ­1965--Sandy Koufax, Los AngelesOther receiving votes: Callforma a2. Oklahoma 69, Texas A&M 56, 1963--Sandy Koufax, Los AngelesOregon 2t, San Jose St. 16, Colorado St. 15, Wyoming 6, Alabama 5, 1962-Don Drysdale, Los AngelesBaylor 2, Central Michigan 2, UCLA 1. 
1960--Vernon Law, Pittsburgh 
YOUR ~TUDE •NT 
'OV!lll!ll




EDUCATION 
TIIANKsGMNG HounAY Hosr 
For students staying in South Bend

IS ALREADY 
for the Thanksgiving Holiday 
• Thanksgiving dinner with a faculty or staff member, 
in their home.

STARTING 
• 
FREE phone calls anywhere in the U.S. 

• 
USC gamewatch in Washington Hall


TO PAYOff. 
• Thanksgiving Mass at Sacred Heart 
SHAMPOO, HAIRCUT AND STYLE, 
-

Just $12 Sign up in North and South Dining Hall 
Thursday= Sunday 
November 14-16

UNIVERSITY PARK MALL Enjoy Thanksgiving .with the Notre Dame family!
272-1168 
-


l];t@@ll CTI 
20% Discount with 'We're bringing families together." Studllnt J.D. -orv•~ 
oage 14 The Observer Thursday, November 15, 1990 

Celtics hammer Hornets behind 45 points by Bird 
BOSTON {AP) -One night after his lowest point total in four years, Larry Bird scored 45 points and the Boston Celtics survived a late Charlotte comeback fOI" a 135-126 victory over the Hornets on Wednesday night. 
A 116-10llead with 7:35 re­maining dropped to 122-117 with 4:21 to play on Rex Chapman's driving layup. Boston's Kevin Gamble then made two free throws and the Hornets came no closer than five points the rest of the way. 
Bird, who had 5 points in a 119-91 loss at Milwaukee on Tuesday night, added eight as­sists, eight rebounds and five blocks against the Hornets. 

Notes 
continued from page 20 

to come back next year if they will have me." 
Holtz admits that the day-to­day pressures of coaching at Notre Dame have taken their toll on him, especially after winning a national championship in only his third year at the helm. 
"Sometimes I think you can win too early," he said. "The pressure mounts each and every game, each and every year. Frank Leahy was here three years, then went to war. Sometimes I think that's a relief. Nobody cares how rough the sea is, just bring the ship in." 
Short cornerback Rod Smith may have preserved more than Notre Dame's 34-29 victory last Saturday against Tennessee with his last-minute 
.. interception near the Irish goal line. He also may have earned back the starting position he lost to Reggie Brooks and freshman Greg Lane after Michigan wide receiver Desmond Howard burned him for six catches for 144 yards and two touchdowns in the season opener. "Rod Smith has excellent speed," Holtz said. "Whether you're talking Pat Terrell or whether you're talking Stan Smagala, he can run with any 
defensive back we've ever had here at the University of Notre Dame. 
"The ability to play the ball in the air has been his only handicap, but you talk about a 
76ers 112, Hawks 1 04 
Charles Barkley scored 34 points and grabbed 13 re­bounds as the Philadelphia 76ers turned back a late rally and defeated the Atlanta Hawks 112-104 Wednesday night. 
Philadelphia took its biggest lead of the game, 98-89'i on a layup by Rick Mahorn with 5:56 to play. The Hawks then went on a 9-2 spurt, closing to 100­98 on a driving layup by Dominique Wilkins at the 3:24 mark. 
But Barkley made a 3-point play and, after John Battle connected on a jumper, Barkley added a turnaround shot with 
1:47 remaining. 

Nets 112, Bucks 95 
Derrick Coleman scored a season-high 20 points and Mookie Blaylock got 8 of his 18 points in the fourth quarter Wednesday night as the New Jersey Nets snapped the cold­shooting Milwaukee Bucks' win streak at five games with a 112-95 decision. 
Cavaliers 113, Pacers 95 
Rookie Danny Ferry hit two quick baskets and passed to Craig Ehlo for a third during a 24-5 run in the second quarter as the Cleveland Cavaliers built a 22-point first-half lead and beat the Indiana Pacers 113-95 Wednesday night. 
worker, you talk about character, he's got everything you really like to see in an individual. Will he start on Saturday? I think there's a good chance that he will, but I won't say that he definitely will start." 
Philadelphia Eagles defensive 
linemen Mike Golic and Reggie White had more than a passing interest in Saturday's Notre Dame-Tennessee game. 
Golic, a graduate of Notre Dame, made a bet with Tennessee graduate White on the outcome of the game in which the loser would have to sing the opposing school's fight song. 
Fortunately for Golic, the Irish prevailed 34-29 and White was forced to sing the first three verses of the Notre Dame Victory March before a public audience. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Tonight's men's basketball game is not a part of the student ticket package. How can you keep up with the action? Tune into your 640 AM dial at 7:25 and Vic Lombardi and Hugh McGowen will call all of the Notre Dame-Fordham action live form the JACC. 
NVA is sponsoring a three-part shooting contest, a one-on­one basketball tournament (games to 11, men's 6' and over, under 6'; women open) and a free-throw competition (best of 
50) Sunday, Dec. 2 from 7-10 p.m. in the JACC arena. Sign up by 5 p.m. Nov. 28 in the NVA office. 
Happy 21st Birthday Mark Manning! 
PTI, BCO, & LOML 
Have a beer on Chesty! 

This Week Wednesday-Saturday at Senior Bar: 
Raffle tickets -$1 donation -grand prize is two tickets to Phantom of the Opera in Chicago 
Theme contest -suggest a theme for Senior Formal-winning suggestion receives brunch for 2 at Tippecanoe 
-
: T-shirts-$10 short sleeve &$12 long sleeve, 
Coach Holtz's greatest quotes 
·~· 

-
Proceeds Benefit Senior Formal 

1 9 9 0 • 1 9 9 1 



SAINT MARY'S 
COLLEGE 



Fresh Tracks 
A faculty-guest artist dance concert• Directed by Sue Cherry $6/$5 
THURS.-SAT., DEC. 6-8•7 P.M. THE DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC'S 18TH ANNUAL 
Madrigal Christmas Dinners 
$22.50 
FRI., NOV. 30, 8 P.M. 
The Apple Hill Chamber Players 
One ofAmerica's premier musical ensembles 
$8/$6 

All performances in O'Laughlin Auditorium unless noted. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, in O'Laughlin, Mon.-Fri., 10-4. Visa/MasterCard: 284-4626. For updated program information, call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline: 674-G:'"" --•a•><)ry 1740. 
. fii 
~a111t Marts CglJegc 
".JOT~-~IJ_,}I\-\f 1~_!?_1:\\:\ 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·~ 
Thursday, November 15, 1990 The Observer page 15 
•

Report says new conference will be started up 1n Midwest 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The University of Cincinnati and five otht1r schools have finalized an agremnent to form a new con­ference for basketball and other sports. aeeording to published reports. 
An announcement is tenta­tivnly schedulnd for Thursday in Chicago, The Cincinnati Post rnported Wndnesday. 
Thn new league, ttmtatively referrnd to as the Big Midwest, is to begin play in 1991-92. It will ineludn Cincinnati and Memphis State from the Metro Conference, Alabama­Birmingham from the Sun Belt Conference, St. Louis and Marquette from the Midwestern Collegiate Conference based in Indianapolis, and independent DePaul, The Cincinnati Post re­ported Wednesday. 
The National Collegiate Athletic Association requires a five-year wait for an automatic bid to its post-season tourna­ment. 
Cincinnati athletic director 
ATIENTION JUNIORSII 
Do you want to be in the Junior Parents Weekend Slide Show? Please submit pictures to the Student Activities Office-3rd Floor LaFortune. 
Nov 12-Nov 16th (no pies accepted after Nov. 16) 
Questions·Call Katie x1297 NOTE-no alcohol allowed in pies. Thanks ill 
St. Jude pray for those who invoke your aid. 
Happy 21st BD to Darla on Fridayll Tonight will be a glorious site. Prepare yourself.... 
The Eight Man of 'Naugh 
ALUM TRYING TO LOCATE THREE X-LARGE "THIS IS YOUR BRAIN..." T-SHIRTS SEEN AT MIAMI GAME. PLEASE CALL RICK LANE AT 203-254-0280. 
"It's a shame the way she makes me scrub the floor. 
I ain't gonna work on Maggie's farm no more." And it makes me sad. 
Rick Taylor declined comment on reports that an agreement had been reached. DePaul ath­letic director Bill Bradshaw also declined comment. 
But Bradshaw said an an­nouncement could be made this week concerning the new league. 
"If everything goes together. that could happen," he said. 
In Memphis, Memphis State president Thomas Carpenter told The Commercial Appeal newspaper that his school was ready to make the move to the new league. calling it ""an op­portunity we should move with." 
Cincinnati and Memphis State, charter members of the Metro, which started play in 1975, have been involved in discussions about the new league since early this year. 
Florida State has accepted an invitation to leave the Metro Conference and join the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
Need ride to KANSAS CITY/ ST. JOE , MO area for Thanks. break.Will help with expenses JAIME X 1594 
RIDE NEEDED I!!! To Allentown or Philadelphia for Thanksgiving Break. Will help pay ..Call Mike x1090 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY FLO HOELKER! Have a great time tonight-don't do anything like take off your shirt at Senior Bar and FLEX your steaming hot muscles for everyone! Love always, Your buddies at THE BIG "0" 
I need a ride to PITISBURGH Nicole says AREA (or destinations east on PA "He asked me out and then he turnpike) for Thanksgiving. Will rammed me!" help pay gas/tolls. Call LISA@3783 
Triton-Fleet-footed heroes aren't supposed to get sick, you geek! Get better soon I Have a happy Laurie, Thanksgiving, too. -Sheboygan Are you going to pull a M.G. on 
J.C. Take your own advice. Go for 

fiKN<NCCNJ'WJy,vrnuiR~WNiiNNiEErtl--::;:=;a,it! 
'How to Judge Any Bottle ~~~~ 
of Wine In 1!5 Minutes\ 16 

page manual, 10 yeara re­Nellie,search, lnveat in youraelt, 
Take Laurie's advice. Go for it IIIII 

aend $3 to: Flexor lnduatsl Penyton Parkway Pampa 1X ~ 

We're Fighting For Your Life. 
SPEND AN EVENING WITH US FOR THE ULTIMATE IN FINE DINING AND ENTERTAINMENT 
BANQUET & RECEPTION ROOMS AVAILABLE 
1345 N. Ironwood Drive, South Bend 


289-P G L 0 
..
..
..
..
..
.. 
..
.. .. LET'S
..
.. 
i P.A.C.K. the 

J.A.C.C 
NOTRE 
vs 


DAME 
..
..
..
..
..
.. 
..... 
..
.. 
..... 
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
i STUDENT 
..
.. 

SPECIAL OFFER! 


FORDHAM 
: Tickets only $2.00 with valid Thursday' November 15th! Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student ID! 7:30 pnt : 
.. ..
**************************************************************************** 
South Carolina is leaving the Metro for the Southeastern Conference. Only Louisville, Virginia Tech, Southern Mississippi and Tulane will re­main. 
With Taylor and Memphis State athletic director Charlie Cavagnaro pushing for the Metro to sponsor football as a conference sport, the league tried to put together a 12-to 16­team superconference that would have included football. 

$50 FREE AIRFARE unused voucher Chrissy X4828 
acoustic guitar for sale: x2645 
NEED RIDE TO PITI FOR THANKSGIVING FLEXIBLE JOANNE 1275 $ 
sdgf 
Make a contribution to life after death. 
lliE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIAL PR<ERAM., 
~ 
Americanvt
Heart 

Association 
This space provided as a public service. 
****************************************************************************liiiiiiniiiiiiiftiiiiil
.. 
r------------------------,Travel Service International ~1 1888 Sherman St. Suite 780 1 Denver, CO 00203 I 
~-----------------:
Name.________________ : Group.________________ : 
Address 1
Clty/Sta•t_e_f'EJ_p_____________ : 
School Phone L__) : Home Phone 
I 

page 16 The Observer Thursday, November 15, 1990 

Oklahoma, Duke advance with first-round NIT wins 
NORMAN, Okla. (AP) Oklahoma used a 16-0 run early in the first half to take control against New Orleans and the 15th-ranked Sooners rolled to a sloppy 95-65 victory Wednesday night in the first round of the Big Apple NIT. 
Terrence Mullins started the spurt with a 3-pointer and four other players scored during the four-minute streak that gave the Sooners a 21-4 lead. Mullins finished with 16 points, one of six Sooners in double figures. 
Oklahoma has no full-time starters back from a year ago, 
when it finished the regular season ranked No. 1, and that unfamiliarity was obvious at times. 
But the Sooners' pressing de­fensive style helped make up for some of the problems on of­fense. New Orleans committed 18 turnovers and shot 27 per­cent in the first half. For the game, the Privateers. had 32 turnovers and shot 40 percent. 
Oklahoma, which shot 44 percent overall, led by as many as 25 points in the first half be­fore settling for a 42-22 half­time lead. 
Tank Collins scored six points 
Iowa coach is frightened of Temple's tough squad 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -Iowa coach Tom Davis sees some­thing frighteningly familiar in the Temple team his Hawkeyes will play in the first round of the Big Apple NIT. 
The Owls remind him of the Michigan team that won the na­tional title in 1988, he said. 
Temple's lineup of guards Mark Macon and Michael Harden, forwards Mik Kilgore and Mark Strickland and center Donald Hodge bring to mind Loy Vaught, Terry Mills, Rumeal Robinson, Glen Rice and the rest of the Wolverines of two years ago. 
"They just remind me of Michigan's ball club with deep, tall talent," Davis said. "This is a very strong ball club. We 

Hockey 
continued from page 20 
were very good, but we came 
... up short. "We are a better hockey team than we were three years ago when we went 27-4-2. We're not out to best that record, though -we'd be off to a bad start if we were. Our schedule is much more difficult now, but we are a better hockey team. The experience of the sopho­mores and juniors needs to show itself-they need to do the things that we need to do as a team." 
One of many players that Schafer hopes will key the Irish effort is junior center David Bankoske, who will return tonight after injuring his shoulder against Kent State. 
"David Bankoske only played a little bit last week, and we know he can score. We always have high expectations of him," noted Schafer. 
Last season, Bankoske led the 

know we've got our hands full." 
Temple coach John Chaney draws a blank about the Hawkeyes, though. 
"We don't have a clue about them. I've known Tom Davis a long time, and I know with him having to struggle with young players it will take some time to get going," Chaney said. 
Compared to Davis, Chaney is in an enviable position coming into the season. 
He returns five starters, headlined by Macon, a 6-foot-5 senior from Saginaw, Mich., who has scored 1,926 points in his career. That's more than all the lettermen on Iowa's team, who have combined for 1,425 points in their careers. 
Macon averaged nearly 22 points and six rebounds a game last year and helped lead the Owls to a 20-11 record and an NCAA tournament berth.. 
"Macon is being talked about by everybody as an all­American and an NBA lottery pick," Davis said. "He can jump over you, he can go around you, he can work you one-on-one, he can shoot from tremendous distance. He's capable of getting into the 30s with his scoring." 
As good as Macon is, Davis is just as concerned with Temple's front line of the 6-8 Kilgore, 6-9 Strickland and 7-0 Hodge. 
"They're NBA-type bodies," Iowa's coach said. 
Macon scored 26 points and Strickland had 17 points and eight rebounds in a 94-77 vic­tory over a Soviet national team in the Owls' only exhibition game. 
Unlike Chaney, Davis has a raft 
his team-leading totals were six multiple-goal games (including two hat tricks) and seven game­winning goals. Over the course of the 33-game season, Bankoske served only eight penalty minutes, despite playing in every game. As a freshman, Bankoske was tops on the team in assists (34) and total points (45). 
Left wings Mike Curry and Lou Zadra will also have to 
... 
have strong showings if the Irish are to survive the Beacon invasion. This season, Curry leads Notre Dame in scoring, with seven points (four goals, three assists). Zadra is second in scoring with five points (four goals, one assist). The Irish will also be counting on center Pat Arendt, who twice fueled Irish rallies last weekend with goals against Ferris State. 
in a 10-2 spurt that brought other Privateer in double fig­New Orleans within 48-38 with ures with 10 points. Collins had 
13:36 to play. Collins scored 14 nine rebounds in helping New before fouling out with about Orleans outrebound the five minutes left. Sooners 48-46. 
After the Privateers threat­ened, Oklahoma went on an 11-Duke 87, Marquette 74 2 run that Mullins capped with a 3-pointer. The Sooners then Christian Laettner scored 24 led 59-40 and continually points and had 12 rebounds widened the lead from there. Wednesday night to lead No. 6 
Duke to an 87-7 4 victory over 
Kermit Holmes also scored 16 Marquette in the opening round for Oklahoma, while Brent of the Big Apple NIT. Price had 15, Roland Ware 12 and Terry Evans and Jeff The Blue Devils will play host Webster 10 each. on Friday night to Boston 
Cass Clarke was the only College, which beat Memphis State 82-78 Wednesday night, in the second round of the tournament. 
Billy Mc.Caffrey added 19 points for Duke, which lost to UNLV in the NCAA champi­onship game last season, while freshman Grant Hill and sophomore guard Bobby Hurley scored 12 each. 
Marquette, which was led by Ron Curry's 24 points, outshot Duke from the field (52. 7-46. 9), but went scoreles over the opening 2:05 as the Blue Devils took a 6-0 lead. 



AP Photo 

team in scoring, as he notched ,.--------------------------•
28 goals and 28 assists. Among 

ACADEMY AWARD NOMINEE-BEST ACTRESS 
in the excitement of
ACADEMY AWARD NOMINEE-BEST FOREIGN FILM 







<€JJPW~ 
Apply for the 
Sophomore 

Committee! 
Applications available in Student Activities Office 
Cinema at the Snlte 

3rd Floor LaFortune 
FRI 6:30, 9:30 SAT 9:30 ONLY 
Temple guard Mark Macon (1 0) will lead the Owls against the Hawkeyes in the first round of the NIT. 
of newcomers, including six freshmen, five juniors and three sophomores. A fourth sophomore, Dale Reed, an­nounced this week he was transferring to Washington State at the end of the semester and Davis said Reed wouldn't play in any games. 
James Moses, Wade Lookingbill and Troy Skinner have the most experience from last year's 12­16 team, but Lookingbill is slowed by a back injury and may have to be given a medical redshirt. 
STEAKS 


PRIME RIB 
.." 
I 
SEAFOOD ~~~~ 
HRf.STN.JRAr·I'J 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and 


Sophomores
Sunday Brunch 100 Center-Mishawaka 219-259-9925 


Get involved 
Thursday, November 15, 1990 The Observer page 17 

Drabek near-unanimous winner of NL Cy Young 
-

I'ITTSBUHGII (AP) -Doug "Because of the pennant race Drabek. who pitrlwd the and the playoffs, I never a)­Pittsburgh Pirates within orw lowed myself to even think stPp of tlw World Series, came about this," he said. "All of that within orw vote Wednesday of individual stuff was pushed unanimous snlnetion as the aside. I didn't think about it, National l.eagun Cy Young even after the season. I was just Award winner. wishing we were in the World 
I>ralwk lnd the lnagw~ with 22 Series." victories against six losses Drabek was 1-1 in the whill' loading his tl•am to its Pirates' six-game NL playoff first division title since 1979. loss to Cincinnati, winning 2-1 And he is Pittsburgh's first Cy in Game '5. He allowed three Young winner sinco Vernon runs in 16 1-3 innings for a Law in I960. 1.65 postseason ERA. 
lin rtH~nivod 23 of 24 first-And while he was one of the place votes and 11 R of a possi-league's hottest pitchers most of hi!~ 120 points in balloting by the season, he was also one of tho Baseball Writers' its coolest. Association of America. A Texan, like Nolan Ryan and 
Hamon Martinez (20-6), the Hoger Clemens, Drabek was 12­l.os Angeles Dodgers' 22-ynar-:~ in games he started after a old fastballer, was second with Pirates' loss. The right-hander orw first-place vote and 70 almost single-handedly pre­points. Frank Viola of tho Nnw vented the Pirates from losing York Mots was third with two more than six in a row. second-place votes and 13 Ilewon 19ofhislast22deci­thirds for 19 points. sions, had a 2. 76 earned run 
Ballots were cast by two average and was second in the writnrs in each National League league with nine complete AP Photo city. games, including two shutouts. 
Doug Drabek of the Pittsburgh Pirates missed a unanimous decision in the NL Cy Young race by one vote.
It was Drabt~k's ability to win He nearly missed joining the big games in a pressure-cooker majors' no-hit club, pitching 8 pennant raen that kept thn Mets 2-3 hitless innings Aug. 3 game." keeping his control -on and "He wouldn't get a bunt down from ovnrtaking the Pirates this against Philadelphia until Sil The first Pirate to lead the off the mound. or something and he'd let it af­season. Campusano singled on a 3-2 league in victories in 32 years "When I'd have a bad inning, fect his pitching for two in­
Pittsburgh lacked thn bullpen pitch. -Bob Friend was 22-14 in I'd go in the dugout and worry nings," Miller said. "He was stopper that most contenders ''I've had two Cy Young 1958 -Drabek was almost about it and think about it," he working too hard to let some­havll, but manager Jim Leyland Award winners and six or seven unbeatable down the stretch. said. "Ray Miller kept telling me thing like that get to him. He's eontnndlld all snason it didn't 20-game winners, but I've He was 5-0 in July, 4-1 in how much that took out of me. I the hardest worker on his staff. matter. "because we've got Cy never had anyone pitch as August and 5-1 in September kept working on it and working Young (Drabek) on our staff. consistently in big games as and was the NL's pitcher of the on it, to put it behind me and "lie can go out and throw a lin's our stopper." Drabek," pitching coach Ray month in both July and August think about the next inning." one-hitter, and the next day 
Drabek, who never won more Miller said. -the first pitcher since 1977 Drabek is quiet, low key and he's in here running, riding the than 15 games before this sea­"He's the best pitcher in the to win consecutive awards. contemplative off the field, but bike for a half hour. He's a son. said he was never worried league -no doubt, no question Drabek has four pitches he Miller said he became a big textbook example of a guy with h1~ would win -or not win -about it," Leyland said. "There can throw for strikes, but said winner by tempering his tern-good stuff who became a great tlw Cy Young. was nobody better in a big he became a big winner by per. pitcher by working hard." 
Holyfield won't surrender his WBC title
0 
NiceBum! 
o 

NEW YORK (AP) -Evander promoter, said Wednesday. Holyfield in which Mendoza

Where 'ya from? 
Holyfield will not surrender the He spoke at a news confer­said the WBA would sanction 
World Boxing Council's piece of ence called to officially an­the fight with Foreman "upon his heavyweight championship nounce that the World Boxing the condition that the winner without a fight. Association had changed its must defend the title against 
Holyfield, who won the undis­stance and will sanction the the then leading available con­puted title from James "Buster" match. tender, by no later than June Douglas Oct. 25, is signed to The WBC, WBA an·d 11, 1991." defend it against 42-year-old International Boxing Federation Tyson, who is to light Alex George Foreman April 19. all ruled that Holyfield's first Stewart Dec. 8 at Atlantic City, 
"The fight is happening April defense had to be against Mike N.J., currently is the No. 1 con­19 because Evander Holyfield is Tyson, who lost the title to tender of all three governing the undisputed heavyweight Douglas. bodies.
A:~i~~~~ champion of the world, and At the news conference, The IBF Executive Committee there's nothing (WBC president) James Binns, counsel for the reportedly is leaning toward 
~,,~, 


Happy 21st! Love, Jon sanctioning the match, and
Jose Sulaiman can do to change WBA, read a letter from WBA 
that," Dan Duva, Holyfield's President Gilberto Mendoza to President Bob Lee said by tele­phone that he will have an an­nouncement by the end of the week. Should the fight be sanc­tioned, Lee said, the winner would have 30 days to negotiate with the leading contender for a defense by next Oct. 25. 
Duva threatened court action against the WBC and take his case to the public and to adver­tisers who sponsor WBC fights on television, adding: "I believe the WBC is going to sanction



Please Return 
this fight or get out of boxing. "I see the possibility of a congressional investigation into

Student Government Surveys i•
boxing if they steal Holyfield's title." 
Concerning Minority Student Life By Wednesday, November 21st Through Student Govermnent Boxes In Hall Lobby Or Campus Mail To G-126 Besburgh. 


page 18 The Observer 
Thursday, November 15, 1990 

Inaugural WLAF season will begin in March, 1991 
DALLAS (AP) -The World Antonio, and Birmingham, Ala. The league will announce a 
"We've signed some 100 play­powers under a reorganizationLeague of American Football Lynn said that the team in the playing schedule by Dec. 1, in­ers and we intend to sign about plan, which included puttingannounced Wednesday that it Carolinas would be based at ei­cluding a site for the inaugural 1,000 players by February." some television, NFL Films and will kick off its inaugural sea­ther Raleigh or Charlotte, with 
World Bowl championship Lynn said. NFL Properties under his office. son as scheduled in March 1991 a decision to be made by Dec. 1. game. Lyhn said that he received no The committee includes own­with 10 teams in three divi­"Starting tomorrow, we will 
The WLAF will open a 10-opposition from the NFL about ers Norman Braman of sions, including seven North hold a 'series of press confer­week regular season on March the league, although some of Philadelphia, Art Modell of American cities and three ences in league cities involving 23 with semifinal playoffs game the shareholders discussed Cleveland, Mike McCaskey of European sites. ownership, front office execu­scheduled June 1-2 and the whether the spring league Chicago and Jerry Jones of The announcement was made tives, team nicknames, logos, World Bowl on June 9. should have been delayed a Dallas. by president Mike Lynn, follow­and uniform colors and other ABC Sports will televise a na­year because of the unstable Tagliabue said the manage­ing a report to shareholders in league news," said LyniL who tional game of the week each 
economy. ment council also will be ab­the unique operation. has approved franchise owner­Sunday and USA Network will "It was decided that the time sorbed into the league office at 
The Europe division will be ship commitments in eight of cablecast prime-time games on to negotiate is over and that a later date under his own dis­made up of London, Barcelona the cities. Saturday and Monday nights. everything is in place and we cretion. and Frankfurt. North America "For businesses reasons, the There will also be six telecasts need to go on with it," LynnEast includes New York, league will own and operate the on Saturday afternoons during said. Jack Donlan, the executive di­Montreal, Orlando, Fla., and London and Frankfurt fran­the season. 
During the special NFL own­rector of the NFL managementthe Carolinas, and the North chises and will announce man­The league will have its first ers meeting, a committee was council, emerged unscathed de­
American West has agement groups for those fran­player evaluation combine and formed to study giving commis­spite predictions he was on the Sacramento, Calif., San chises," he said. draft Feb. 11-24 at Orlando. sioner Paul Tagliabue new way out. 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
Ifyou think you've come far in the past four years, you won't believe how far you could go in the next five. 
If you've spent the past four years developing a solid technical background, we have an extraordinary opportunity for you: The Travelers Telecommunications Technology Management Program (TTMP). 
The most comprehensive training pro­gram of its kind in the financial services indus­try, TTMP is a five-year introduction to a state-of-the-art telecommunications environ­ment. Through a variety of rotational assign­ments-and supplemental classroom study­TTMP is singly focused on developing the man­agers who will keep us on the cutting edge. 
TTMP is not easy and it's not for every­one. But, if you're looking to develop the full range of skills needed to manage the most sophisticated telecommunications technology available, there's simply no better place to begin your career. 
Find out more. Come to The Travelers' Information Session on Thursday, November 15th, at 6:00 PM, LaFortune Student Center, Foster Room. Interviews will be conducted November 16th. 
Summer Intern candidates are also encouraged to attend. 
TheTravelerSj' 
You're better off under the Umbrella~ 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

\ 
Thursday, November 15, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CROSSWORD
CAMPUS 

4:00 p.m. A Hnsume ExpArt Workshop will be offered by Marilyn Hice, Assistant Director Career and Placement Snrvices, in the Career and Placement Services Conference Hoom. Sponson~d by Career and Placement Services. 
6:00 
p.m. Ford Motor Company will hold a presentation and reception at Alumni Senior Club. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

6:00 
p.m. Morgan Stanley and Company will hold a re­ception and reception in the upper lounge of the Univer­sity Club. Sponsornd by CarP-er and Placement~Services. 


LECTURE CIRCUIT 

noon. Lecture: Alfred Boulos, S1mior Director, World­wide Exploration for Conoco Inc. Sponspred by NO Inter­national Law Society. Hoom 105, Law School. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Beef Barley Soup BBQ Chicken Pork Fried Hice Pasta Bar 
Saint Mary's 

Texas Grilled Cheese Chili Nachos Hungarian Noodle Bake Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
T1il5 IS 1-\0PH£55' 1-\0W At.'! 
I SIJ\?(1.51:.0 ID CRI:.A\t: f... l'{_'5ERT S<.EN£. IN nw; '51-\ot &:>x W~EN l \lONT E'lEN. K~W WHI>-1 f... OE'SE.Rf lootS 
LII'E ~~ 

BILL WATTERSON 
IV£ NE'JER '2HN It> f>... \k.51CR\ .1 \ACl\-4\ r>-_~\) \)P,Q ~E.\JER Ti\~£ tv\£ 1\~'{W\\t.RE 
FUN 01-\ 'lf>..Oi\\01-\S ! \~ 1\-\E.~'\) Ti\KE!-1 t-A.'t. 10 />.. IJEstR\ SOt-.\8'1\<\E I I'D KNON TI-ll'S 
ST\JrF.I 

~~fL 
_.....,_­

!'<\'{ 1'1 51-\0W S\AA\S IN 
20 t.\lt-l\l1tS ARE '{OJ GO\t-IEr it> 
1-\£.\.P 1-\£ OR NOT:' 
ACROSS 35 Disease tsetses cause
1 Arduous 39 Astaire-Rogersjourney hit: 19335 Jungfrau et al. 
43 Ex-international9 Forsaken org.

13 Bellows 44 Recent: Prefix 15 Telegram 45 Sawyer's pal
16 Bourse 46 Displays
17 A 1953 hit song 50 Actor Billy­
20 Financier who Williams
got his cut? 51 He said "War is
21 Fij_ian capital 
hell"

22-Abner 54 Calif. valley
23 Solitary 56 Rhine tributary
25 Clouseau portrayer 57 Gallic angel 27 N.T. book 59 Serviette 30 Maine's main 63Chauncey plant Olcott classic 32 Periods since 1899 34 Penpoint 66 Chief Norse god 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
L F C R 
A H A GOL E 
OM
SA 

I E 0 I L S 
N 
AM

R 
I 
PO
oc 
H R I DE WALT z'l~~. L 
S 
L 
E I G 
EN.

A ONE 
ME 

R E C A 
A R T 

E E AD 
REP
SIT R 0 
MS s y 
FA
AI R. 
DO-H 

N C 0 p 
C K U T 
ED 
C L 0

AT 
E E S A R G A S 
L 
I 
A.R A R

E-A 
S 
0 
W A R IN E R ~A N T 
E 
D A V Y MEO.SERENATA T Y P E W R 
I r:t~~ IMETIAWARE NENE LOREN 
THE FAR SIDE 
G E A R ERIN SOLO 


~ To Know About Sex 
• 












iW§9~~
•~ 

~ 
~ {But Were Afraid ~ To Ask) 
67"Step-!" &a Sublime 69 Neagle of old 
films 70--War, famed race horse 71 "Hud" Oscar winner 
DOWN 
1 Streetcar 2 Halyard 3 Rank below 
marquis 4 Whale fare 5 Bristle 6Hot­
Houlihan 7 Combray's 

creator a Carhop, e.g. 9 Baton Rouge 
inst. 10 Colonel's 
insignia 

11 Bent 31 Deep black 12 Spills the beans 33 Lute for 14 Knockabout Shankar 
36 Parched 18 Result of six 37 Number of
outs 

inches in a span19 Gift 
38 Top-drawer 24 Author Bagnold 
40 Regular 26--mutton 
41 Free from sleeves 
dependency 27 N.B.A. officials 
42 Lloyd and 28 Heraldic term Jeanette 29 Yucatan 47 Kind of sample 
inhabitant, once 48 Throat ailment 
GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 

49 Hall of Fame 58 The Emerald pitcher Isle 51 Pacific islands 
60 Honshu port 61 Any of the

52 "The Creation" 
Balearics 
composer 

62 Portraitist Alice 53"TheStu­Show" on TV: 
64 Actress Claire 
1950-55 

as Japanese 55 Stage part statesman 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 


You GUYS CAN JuST FORGET ANY THOIJGJHTS CJr CUT11MCn IN L.t N£. YoU l<f'IOW 'fl!~ RUL.f5 ARotJIJD 1-\fi<E • 
PEARLS BEfoRE. SVJIIIJE. 
I 


~ Everything You Always WatTled THURSDAY: 

8:00 & 10:00 $1 
Montgomery Theatre-LaFortune 
FRIDAY: Internal Affairs 8:00 & 10:30 $2 
t 

sTUDENT uNioN soARo! 
•
•************************************************* 

r 
' 




Sports 
Thursday, November 15, 1990
page 20 

ND kicks off season with NIT matchup vs. Fordham 
Rams look to surprise Irish in first round of tournament 
By GREG GUFFEY in the Top 20. Then they won it while junior guard John Sports Editor and then later they were num­Prioleau scored at an 11.1 clip. ber one." Forward Stanley Jenkins and 
Notre Dame hopes it can sur­Said Irish forward· Lli.Phonso guard Jay Fazande should prise some of the so-called ex­Ellis, "There's no pressure on round out the Fordham starting perts in college basketball this us at alL We're not even under­lineup. season. dogs. Nobody really knows "I think Fordham is a team 
But Fordham hopes to sur­what we are right now." that will surprise people," prise the Irish first. The Irish have had exactly Phelps said. "Their intensity is The two teams will meet at one month to prepare for very strong. They have three 
7:30 p.m. tonight in the Joyce tonight's opener. They defeated solid players with a lot of expe­ACC for a first-round Athletes in Action 81-78 in an rience." Dodge/NIT contest. The victor exhibition contest last week be­Notre Dame will have experi­will play the winner of the hind the 28 points and 13 re­ence in its first six players. Ellis Temple-Iowa game on Saturday bounds of Ellis. and junior Daimon Sweet (6.6 with the time and the place to "These kids know what they ppg last season) will start at be announced. can be as a team," Phelps said. forward with junior Keith 
"I think this is something that "They've worked very hard the Tower (2.1 ppg) in the middle. is very good for college basket­past three or four weeks." Junior Elmer Bennett (10.9 ball," said Notre Dame coach Fordham returns three ppg) will join Singleton in the Digger Phelps, who began his starters from last year's 20-13 backcourt. Senior Kevin Ellery coaching career at Fordham. team. The Rams defeated will be the first man off the "To be part of the field of 16, Southern in the first round of Irish bench. we're anxious to get started." the NIT before falling to 
The Irish lost to Western Rutgers. Four freshmen -Joe and Jon Kentucky four years ago in the Returning senior center Ross, Carl Cozen and Brooks first round of their only other Damon Lopez averaged 11.4 Boyer -will dress for their first appearance in the tournament. points and 10.3 rebounds per game at Notre Dame. The Hilltoppers advanced to the game last season. Over the last championship game before 12 games of the season, he shot NIT NOTES -Student tickets falling to UNLV in double over­71 percent from the field and are available for $2 with an ID time. averaged 13 rebounds. Lopez at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC.. 
Notre Dame players know this had 22 rebounds in the NIT loss .ESPN will telecast both the tourney could give them a lot of to Rutgers, the most by any Notre Dame-Fordham game credibility from people who are player in the NCAA or NIT and the Temple-Iowa game.. not giving them much of a tourney. .Notre Dame leads the series chance for the entire season. The Rams return two other 16-5, the last meeting a 77-58 
"Look at Kansas last year," players who scored in double Irish victory in 1989...Phelps said Irish captain Tim figures last season. Junior for­had a 26-3 record in his only 
LaPhonso Ellis (20) and the Irish basketball team will tip off the 1990­
Singleton. "Kansas won it (pre­ward Fred Herzog averaged season at Fordham before he 
91 season tonight against Fordham at the Joyce ACC.
season NIT). They weren't even 10.6 points and 3.8 rebounds, came to Notre Dame. 
Irish hockey will host UMass-Boston.. 
By DAVE DIETEMAN leads the Beacons in scoring tunities and have not taken ad­Sports Writer with eight total points (three vantage of them. We also need goals, five assists). Bill Roche, a to shore up on defense. Our 
The Notre Dame hockey sophomore defenseman, is goaltending has been very team, looking to improve on its second in scoring with six total good, but I think that we really 1-5-1 record, will host to the points (three goals, four as­have two objectives: scoring Beacons of the University of sists). Sophomore forward John and preventing them from Massachusetts-Boston tonight Veneri, meanwhile, has chipped scoring. and tomorrow night at 7:30 at in five goals. "This team we are facing exe­the Joyce A.C.C. As a team, the Beacons have cutes welL It is important for us 
Tonight's game will be the managed to spread their scor­to keep going forward. We have first meeting ever between the ing around, with six players been going forward even Fighting Irish and the Beacons, scoring multiple goals and eight though our record is not great. a Division III team. This season, players with four or more total We have managed so far." U.Mass-Boston has come out points so early in the season. Schafer is also quick to warn shooting, and will bring a 3-0 UMass-Boston is also tough onlookers to not be deceived by record into the matchup with on defense, as the Beacons the team's apparently sub-par Notre Dame. have allowed only a meager 11 record. 
The Beacons opened their goals while registering 81 "We have gotten better this season with an 8-5 win over saves. year," noted Schafer, who has East Coast Athletic Conference The Irish, however, are well played hockey both at Notre rival St. Anselm, followed by a appraised of the situation at Dame and for a Swiss pro team. 
The Observer/File Photo 
7-2 decision over Salem State hand. "We have played against some 
(also in the ECAC) and a 6-4 "We need to score more stiff competition. Last Saturday The Irish hockey team will try to reverse its fortunes against the victory over Southeastern goals," said Notre Dame head [a 5-4 loss to Ferris StateJ we UMass-Boston Thursday and Friday night at the Joyce ACC Massachusetts. coach Ric Schafer. "We have 
Junior forward Mike Dalton had some good scoring oppor-see HOCKEY I page 16 



Holtz would prefer Sugar, but Orange is fine as well 
the next two weeks, the Orange Bowl would pit 
Notre Dame Athletic top-ranked Notre Dame against No. 2 Colorado Director Dick 
in a rematch of last season's Orange Bowl Rosenthal's matchup, which the Irish won 21-6. announcement Sunday Atlantic Coast Conference champion Virginia that the University will (No. 9) is expected to play the winner of accept an invitation .Saturday's Southeastern Conference game from the Orange Bowl between No. 14 Tennessee and No. 15 to play second-ranked Mississippi in the Sugar BowL Colorado on Jan. 1 once· ••• 
..~. 

an invitation is officially Rumors of Holtz leaving Notre Dame at the end extended came as little Frank Pastor of this season to pursue a professional head surprise to most. coaching job have been as numerous as injuries 
Head coach Lou Football Notebook on the Irish offensive line. Holtz's desire to play in --------­The Minnesota Vikings and Cleveland Browns the Sugar Bowl, however, turned a few heads. are the most recent NFL teams to have been 
"I would have preferred to take a team to the linked with Holtz's name, but the fJ.fth-year Irish Sugar Bowl," Holtz said Tuesday. "I think that coach continues to deny published reports that would have been in the best interests of our this will be his final year at Notre Dame. football players, but it wasn't feasible to go to "I planned on this being the last job I'd ever the Sugar Bowl at the present time. I wanted to have when I came here," Holtz said. "It's not the 
The Observer/File Photo

go to the Sugar Bowl because our seniors would type of job you can keep for 11 years, but I plan have played in the Sugar, the Fiesta, the Cotton to come back next year if they will have me." 
Lou Holtz's Irish will probably play in the Orange Bowl Jan. 1.
and the Orange." Barring an Irish loss to Penn State or USC in see NOTES I page 14 




