
VOL. XXIII NO. 134 MONDAY , APRIL 30, 1990 

.  - .  ,...,  
.}·~-~~..........·~····  
It's a bird, it's a plane, it's Chris Radzik!  The Observer/Andrew McCloskey  
Chris Radzik, a freshman from Zahm, gets into the spirit of An Tostal by diving  into the mudpits. Saturday was full of An  

Tostal events, including Bookstore Basketball, the Nazz competition, and the Blue-Gold game. 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
.-­
Rape reported by SMC student 
•

ND student & prof's husband killed 1n accident 
Observer Staff Report 
A Notre Dame student and a Notre Dame professor's bus­hand were killed narly Saturday morning when they were struck hy a car in the 1900 block of Wnst Wnstern Avenue. 
The driver was arrested on charges of causing deaths while intoxicated. 
Hohnrt Steve Dolan. 29, a senior in the College of Engi­nnnring, died at 3:35 a.m. Sat­urday at Memorial Hospital. 
The other man, Paul Turpin, 40, died at 3:35 a.m. Saturday at St. .Joseph's Mmlical Center. 
Barbara Turpin, his wife, is an assistant professional spe­cialist and concurrent assistant professor for the Arts and Let­ters Core Course. 
Thomas Trenerry, St. Joseph County deputy coroner, said Dolan died from a broken neck, and also suffered extensive other injuries. Turpin died from extensive head and chest in­juries, said Trenerry. No au­topsies were scheduled. 
According to South Bend Po­lice. both men were leaving a bar at about 2 a.m. and were crossing from the south side of the street to the north. They were struck by a westbound car driven by Sandra Rankin, 34, of South Bend. 
She was arrested and re­mains in the St. Joseph County Jail. No bond was set, and she is scheduled to appear in court today to face the two felony charges, according to county police. 
According to Trenerry, a blood-alcohol test was done on Turpin before he died, and the test results were below the legal limit for intoxication. A similar test was done on Dolan, but was sent to the State Police Crime Laboratory for analysis 

Notre Dame to take 700 transfer students next year; most from SMC and Holy Cross 
By PAUL PEARSON Assistant News Editor 
Snvnn hundn~d students will transfer into Notre Dame's classes of 1992 and 1993 next 
YIHLr. 
This is a normal amount of transfer students who are ac­enpted to ND eaeh yearaccord­ing to Susan Joyce. Transfer Coordinator for the Office of Admissions. 
Transfer students are evalu­ated on the basis of their per­formance in their eollege eur­rieulum, as well as the quality of that currieulum. 
"The high school information [SAT scores and high school pnrforrnance I are secondary," .Joyce said. 
Each of the four undergradu­ate colleges admits transfer students into its own program, and each has its own guidelines for admitting transfer students, according to .Joyce. For exam­ple, the College of Arts and Let­ters will not accept transfers into the Class of 1993, but the Colleges of Engineering, 
............ 
. 
'lf'O'IID[]l)®~®O' 



A11i 

®~illl@J@[]l)fi® 
The first of a two part series 
Seience, and Business Adminis­tration will. 
Holy Cross College sends the largest amount of transfer ap­plications, and Saint Mary's College sends the second­largest amount, Joyce said. 
However,  these  students  
"receive  no extra  considera­ 
tion."  

To apply for transfer admis­sion to Notre Dame, a student must have at least 27 hours of transferable credit and a 3.0 grade-point average. However, Joyce said, "Most students admitted now have [a GPA ofl 
3.5 or higher." 
The fact that a transfer ap­plicant was not accepted for freshman admission is not held against a transfer applicant., according to Joyce. "Some of them could be very desirable," Joyee said. 
Joyce has found that most transfer students do not have a great problem fulfilling the University requirements for graduation, such as the re­quired six semesters in philoso­phy and theology. "They would not have as many elec­tives ... [but] they're not finding themselves facing a whole lot of obstacles to overcome," she said. 
One of these obstacles is the fact that most transfer stu­dents cannot immediately get on-campus housing. 
According to Evelyn Reinebold, director of Student Residences, most transfer stu­dents are placed on a waiting list and can usually get a room by the next semester. "Many end up finding a place [off­campus) themselves," she said. 
However, 138 students are still on the waiting list from last year. "I think that [living on-campus] is the reason the 
see TRANSFER I page 8 
By MICHAEL OWEN News Writer 
Saint Mary's Security received an anonymous phone call at approximately 2 a.m. on Friday, April 27, reporting a rape of a Saint Mary's student at approximately 9:30 p.m. Thursday evening. The rape occurred on Saint Mary's Road between the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses, according to Richard Conklin. direc­tor of Notre Dame's Department of Public He­lations and Information. 
Director of Security Hex Hakow said that the report was called in by the roommate of the vic­tim early Friday morning. 
According to Conklin, no information is avail­able regarding the assailant or assailants. Any­one who has any information helpful in investi­gating this report should call Saint Mary's at 284-5000 or Notre Dame Security at 239-5555. Students are reminded of escort services avail­able on the two campuses . 
A letter was sent to each rector of a residencH hall on Saturday from P..ffil Johnson, assistant director of Security. Johnson wrote the letter, "to advise them and their residents of the situa­tion since their was no Observer published on Saturday." 
Conklin said that there is no evidence at this time linking this report with three other recent incidents. The first incident was an attempted 
see RAPE I pageS 

and was not yet available. Funeral arrangements were pending for Dolan. 
Turpin was a plant manager for Miles Laboratories for 10 years. Born Feb. 9, 1950, in Grand Rapids, Minn., he had lived in this area 22 years, coming from Minnesota. On May 24, 1975, in Boston, Mass., he married Barbara McGet­trick, who survives. 
Also surviving are two daughters, Andrea and Eileen Turpin, both at home; his mother, Caesarina Turpin of Keewatin, Minn.; and his ma­ternal grandmother, Magdelena Branca, of Keewatin. Turpin was a graduate of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame and the University of Wisconsin. 
Service will be at 7:30 p.m. today at Little Flower Catholic Church, of which he was a member. Private burial will be at Cedar Grove Cemetery, Notre Dame. Friends may call from 5 to 7 p.m. today at Hickey Fu­neral Home, Cleveland Hoad Chapel, 17131 Cleveland Hoad, and following the services at the church. Memorial contribu­tions may be made to MADD or 
see DEATHS I page 6 

Group will release American hostage 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) ­A group calling itself the Or­ganization of Islamic Dawn announced Sunday it will free American hostage Frank Reed within 48 hours and said he will carry a mes­sage for the U.S. govern­ment. 
In Iran, a newspaper quoted an Iranian official as also saying Reed's release was expected by Tuesday night after "extensive talks" between the kidnappers and Iran. 
The announcement from the previously unknown Is­lamic Dawn group was deliv­ered to the independent Beirut newspaper An-Nahar three hours after an earlier unsigned communique said the U.S. educator-held for 
more than 3 1/2 years ­ will  
be freed by Tuesday.  
The later statement  was  

accompanied by a black-and­white picture of a bearded, smiling Reed to prove its au­
thenticity. It elaimed rn­
sponsibility for the earlier 
statement, sent with two 
other pictures to the inde­
pendent newspaper and a 
Western news agency. 

The communiques were re­leased one week after a pro­Iranian Shijte Moslem group freed American hostage Robert Polhill. Polhill, rhe first American hostage to have been freed since November 1986, was re­leased with the help of Syria. 
Reed. 57, of Malden, Mass .. is married to a Syrian Moslem woman. 
Both statements were type­written in Arabic. The later one contained a denial of news reports that the first communique promising Reed's release was signed by the Organization of Arab Revolutionary Cells-Omar Moukhtar Brigade, a shad­owy group that had initially 
see HOSTAGE I page 4 

page 2 The Observer Monday, April 30, 1990 INSIDE COLUMN 
WEATHER 
Mac lab users should keep others in mind 
It is now 3 in the morning. I have been in line in the Macin­tosh lab since 1. This is directed to those of you who have been at a terminal for well over two hours-you 

know who you are. Colleen Cronin
Some of you have 
been here since before 
Accent Editor
dinner. 
Macintosh computers are great; does anyone really own a typewriter anymore? These computers enable you to correct a paper without retyping the entire document. You can get a quality printout. 
Since Macs have all these nifty features 
they cost a little bit of money. Hence the av­
erage College Joe cannot have his own. 
Thank goodness Notre Dame realized this 
and has built three computer labs for the 
students' use. We don't even have to pay for 
the paper! So a student can write a paper in 
the quiet of his own room and then trot 
over to the nearest Mac lab and print out 
the final masterpiece. 
But to many students' dismay it does not 
work like this. Rarely is the wait less than 
an hour: usually it is around two. The major 
cause of this lies with those people who 
bring all their materials-complete with 
thesaurus-to the Mac lab to write a 15­
page paper (due the next day at 10 a.m.) di­
rectly from head to terminal. Not only is 
this annoying, it is downright wrong. These 
people are not taking into consideration 
that the Macs are for the entire campus to 
use, not just them. 
Notre Dame has approximately 150 Macs for about 40 times that many students. If there was a Mac for every student the situa­tion would be different: most of us could just camp out in front of our own terminal during those paper-every-day hell weeks. But the situation is not so. 
Though it is not the ideal way to write a paper, many students forego the middle writing part and type their papers as they conceive of them. Some students can do this, some can't. It's a personal thing. 
But what about the people who have writ­ten three drafts of a paper, finally have it in it's perfected form, and all they want to do is type the thing out? They have to wait for these others who have occupied a computer since the day before. If you want to write a paper this way in your own room on your own time that's fine, but it is unfair and quite rude to inconvenience others and waste their time because of your way of do­ing things. 
You cannot expect the University to build more computer labs-we are lucky to have as many as we do. I cannot suggest to get the papers done earlier because I myself have fallen victim to procrastination. All I can suggest is to think of the other students who are in the same paper-writing situation as you. Would it be that evil to write the pa­per out first? Maybe then the rest of us could get some sleep.... 
I waited in line for two and a half hours­it took me only half an hour to type my pa­per. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
1219)-239-7471  
Today's Staff: News  Scoreboard Chris Cooney Production  Business Sandra Weigand Maureen Gallagher  
Pete Loftus Erin O'Neill Accent Cristina Ortiz Liz Havel  Christine Anderson Melissa Gorham Beth Peterson Viewpoint Julie Shepherd  Ad Design Lisa Gunsorek Anita Covelli Tony Paganelli Joy Harris  
Melissa Gorb  Circulation  
Bill O'Roukrke  
Spol1s  Systems Amalia Meier  Matt Novak  
Scott Brutocao  Tim Quinn  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Forecast for noon, Monday, April 30. Lines show high temperatures. 
Yesterday's high: 69 Yesterday's low: 48 Nation's high: 1 05 (Laredo, Texas) Nation's low: 1 3 (Wisdom, MT)  
FRONTS: •• •• •• •COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure ®© §m ~ m HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  Forecast: Partly sunny today. High near 70. Partly cloudy tonight. Low near 50. Partly cloudy Tuesday with a 30 percent chance of thundershowers. High near 70 . ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  

OF INTEREST 
Former Senator Gaylord Nelson, (D­Female Singers interested in forming a contem­Wisconsin) will give a lecture, "Greening of America," porary a capella group should contact Margaret at 283­tonight at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall concerning the 9081 for more information. politics of environmentalism and his role as founder of Earth Day. 
Counselors are needed to work with the Applications are being accepted for The handicapped at Camp Kiwanis this summer. If interested Cellar-the new campus video store -for next year. Appli­in receiving more information about this job opportunity cations are available in the store and the deadline is to­in Plymouth, Ind. from June 10-August 18, contact camp morrow. director Pat Vlalsavich (219) 936-801 after 5:00p.m. 
WORLD Nicolae Ceausescu and Switzerland's final bastion of male 
his wife's filmed executions were 
faked, according to French forensic experts. The conclusion furthers suspicions among experts on the country that the two probably were victims of a coup d'etat carried out under cover of the popular revolution, the newspaper reported Sunday from 

its Paris bureau. The 90-r minute film of Ceausescus' trial and execution indicated the couple may have been killed separately by single shots to their heads and their corpses later propped up for a staged execution. 
supremacy on Sunday defiantly refused to give women the vote in local affairs. The all-male sword-carrying legislative assembly of Appenzell-Rhodes Interior, a northeastern canton, overwhelmingly rejected a federally­proposed constitutional amendment on local suffrage for women. The vote by a show of hands came two decades after Swiss women won the vote on federal matters and 10 years after the federal constitution was revised to formally proclaim equal rights for both sexes. The surprise decision was expected to leave the final say on 
the issue to Switzerland's supreme court . 
2,000 Mohawk Indians began evacuating the St. Regis Indian reservation in New York on Friday to escape factional violence that has left roadways lined with burned cars and caused residents, including children, to brandish arms. Gov. Mario Cuomo, meanwhile, stood firm on his refusal to send New York State Police or National Guardsmen to restore order on the reservation, despite pleas from one Indian leader and some outsiders. The reservation straddles New York and Canada, but the vio­lence so far has taken place on the United States side. 
NATIONAL 

A paralyzed woman who convinced a judge she wanted to be allowed to die was taken off a respirator Friday afternoon and died within an hour in Philadelphia. She and her family had asked to have the respirator removed, but hospital officials, fearful of a lawsuit on criminal charges, asked the judge to decide. Thelma Stussy, who suffered from the fatal Lou Gehrig's disease, was paralyzed from the neck down and was in constant pain. In an emotional bedside hearing, Stussy blinked once to tell that she wanted to be taken off the 
respirator. 

INDIANA MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for April 27, 1990 

A 16-year-old boy was in custody in 
Indianapolis on Sunday facing a murder charge Volume in shares 
in the drive-by shooting death of a 12-year-old 
130.63 Million
girl. Investigators believe the boy is a member of 
34th Street gang. Investigators said Friday 
night's shooting might have been a retaliation for 
a fight that erupted last week between members 
of 34th Street, known as "Gangsterville," and members of a rival gang called 30th Street. The S&P Composite 
victim was not involved with the gang and 329.11 {7 3.81 apparently was an innocent bystander. Dow Jones Industrials 
2,645.05 {731.53
A freak accident in a Greene County cave, in 
Precious Metals

Newark, Indiana killed a Solsberry man when he was crushed by a slab of limestone, authorities Gold +$0.30 to $373 1oz. said. It was the first cave-related death in the 
Silver+ 3.2¢ to $4.92 I oz.

area since three Indianapolis high school 
students drowned in a cave in February, 197 5 Source: AP 
during a flash flood. Neeley and other explorers 
had gone into the cave, which is about 12 miles 
south of Bloomfield, around 6 p.m. He was trying 
to get around the boulder when he was crushed. 

ALMANAC 

On April 30: e1n 1789: George Washington took office in New York as the first president of the United States. e1n 1803: The United States purchased the Louisiana Terri­tory from France. e1n 1945: As Russian troops approached his bunker in Ber­lin, Adolf Hitler committed sui­cide along with his wife of one day, Eva Braun. e1n 1970: President Nixon announced the United States was sending troops into Cam­bodia, an action that sparked widespread protests. e1n 1975: The South Viet­namese capital of Saigon fell to Communist forces as President Duong Van Minh announced an unconditional surrender to North Vietnam. 
Superconductivity expert speaks on research 
By KATE MANUEL 
News Writer 
The future of superconductiv­ity presents exciting research challenges and practical appli­cations. according to Paul Chu, director of the Texas Center for Superconductivity and holder of the T.L.L. Temple chair in science at the University of llouston. 
Chu, who was introduced as the "superman of superconduc­tivity" for his role on the re­search team that achieved stable superconductivity at temperatures of -290 degrees Fahrenheit in January 1987, talked about his previous re­search experiences and offered encouragement to science and engineering students in his Friday lecture, "High Tempera­ture Superconductivity: Past, Present, and Future". 
"When superconductivity was first discovered, the potential use was recognized but the temperature was very low," said Chu. He employed the "empiricai/Edisonian ap­proach," saying, "the empirical approach means basically you don't know what you're doing and you look back at your past experience." Using this method, he discovered that the applica­tion of pressure to materials increases the temperature at which they become supercon­ducting. 
Following this discovery, Chu attempted chemical substitu­tions from the periodic table to lind materials that were con­ducive to superconducting at critical temperatures higher than that of liquid nitrogen, which had formerly been used in superconductivity research. He also concentrated on work­ing with pure, single state ma­terials. 
While he and his research 
colleagues found the first true 
quaternary superconducting 
materials, Chu noted, "The crit­
ical temperature moves up as 
the number of layers increases 
but at this moment the verdict 
is still ouL" 
As advice to science and engi­neering students, Chu said, "To think of a mind like Edison's makes me very humble. What you have to do in order to suc­ceed in science is work, work, try, try, and wait for luck to fall ... serendipity always plays a role. You must never admit defeat and try to get whatever 

De La Soul Concert The Observer/ Andrew McCloskey 
Pluq One, of the group De La Soul, appeared at Theodore's on Friday. Many concert-goers were disappointed with the show, 
because the arrived late and had a short appearance. 
you can from what you have. Our expectations always out­perform our performances." 
Chu's lecture was delivered a week after scientists from the University of Notre Dame and Purdue University announced to the Materials Research Society in San Francisco that energy­efficient superconductors may one day be used at room tem­perature. Their experiments, done at the Indiana Center for Innovative Superconductor Technology, would allow for superconductivity to be achieved less expensively and for faster computers and better high-tech military equipment to be constructed. 
Chu, a native of Hunan, China and a graduate of Cheng-Kung University in China, Fordham University, and the University of California at San Diego, de­livered the inaugural lecture in the Charles Edison Lecture Series. 
The Charles Edison Lecture Series was established at Notre Dame in honor of the inventor, Thomas Alva Edison, and will focus on topics of current re­search in science and technol­ogy. It will continue in perpetu­ity with the aim of encouraging students to seek careers in sci­entific research. 
Notre Dame is thought to be the first American university to have used Edison's incandes­cent electric light. In the fall of 1885, electric lights, made pos­sible by the donation of a "dynamo," from the Edison Electric Co., were used to illu­minate recreational grounds, the Administration Building, and the statue of Mary on the golden dome. 

chcel Aberle An!ly Aye Ricky E!ettlstonl Kell Ann Bedlcs Timothy Beerm11n Edw11r!l Bell Tim Bettinger David Bl11nchl Ellzebelh Bleney Brenda Blohm Mary Bohmer Mcry Louise Boutole Andrew Braun P11trlcl11 Brlenz11 Mlchllel Brown Joseph Bucolo Jim C11rrlg James Cessldy J11mes CIIVIIMgh Kenneth Cavenaugh Wendy Chllmbers J111 Co!lkley Christine Collins Ed Cosgrove M11rt1n Crowe Michael curran  l. 9 8 9 -9 0 RESIDENT ASSISTANTS I am only one, but I am one. . I cannot do everything, but I can do someth1ng. What I can do, I should do and, with the help of God, I will do! -Everett Hale Thanks for all you've done! Offioe of Residence Life Office of student Affairs Timothy Deley Mlcheel Gettt Timothy Kaiser Mlcheel Naplerkowskl Steven D11nek Au!lrey George Steffllnle Keller Deborah Nllchel Bridget Deegcn Berb11r11 Gerllghty Jennifer Norris W111iom KennedyL11 urle Dell ber11to Gery Gerlllcher Brian KinseyJ11ck Delleflora Paule Glle Jennifer O'Donald Phil KrakerP11trlck DeLong Bridget G11lesple Mctthew O'Donnell Patrick KUjiiWilP. Alexender Derchllk Kllthleen Gleason Jim Otteson Patrlclc Dever Clltherlne Glenn Jean LcmmersRom11no DIBenedetto M11rk Granger Gregory Pax Terence Landr1gllnJohn DIDiego M11rk Gredl er Petrick Perrell!! Mlchllel LcneTherese DIFiorlo Mike Griffin cynthlll Petrltes Monl ca LeloloEileen Doherty K11lle Gruber Cherles P1111od Kristin LewisGererd Donnelly Kevin Gullfolle Sendrll PI evyekSus11n L1Jeffrey Douglass Thomas Guinan Ke Ille Porter LIIUrll L111yGer11ld Duff Meleah Potter C11rl LoeschJohn Dunn Llesl Haes Theres11 LoomisMiles Hlldlock Thomas QuirkLeurence Ecke 1 Gregory LucasP!.llrlck H111l Amy Eden Jack Hllllberg James Redem11ker Amy Edinger John MalerMary Ann H!.lnsen Dove Raffo PCIUl Elden James Marks Anthony Relph Jeen HIISSeIIAndy Eisner Se!.ln M!.lroney Thomes RcshldM!.lur!.l Hog!.lnPetrick EndIer Mergeret McCloskey Diane RickerTimothy Hog11n Kevin McCormick Mary RiellyL11urle HollenbeckGerard Fllzger11ld D11nlel McDevitt Undo RomeroFredrick HolzgrefeTimothy Flood W11rren McDonald Kathryn Ry11nC11rol Hulton Ron~~ld Flynn George Melnyk Molly HylllndCharles Follen Joseph Meyer Kenneth ScheveAbr!.lhllm JecobJohn For11dor11 J!.lmes M11llg11n Ann SchlaffmanKirsten Johnson John Mosler Ablgell SchomerBetsy Joseph Jacqueline .Joyce Lisa Julkll  Mike Schuette Doncl!l Sh11rp Steven Shemwell Alen Sllvldl Denlel Smidt DIIVId Spech Cethy Stecy Kyle Swenson Jon Theisen Jennl fer Thoene Scott Thomas Richerd Tierney Jemes Toth Rosem11rle Vlzcerrando Koren Vossen Dcvld Wermerdam Amy Weber Maura Weidner Kristen Wenstrup Christopher Westervelt John Whelen Lee Wh1tm11n Angell! Wimmer John Wolfrcm Don Woodm11nsee Kevin V11ley Br11dl ey Young Thomas Zldar Jerry Zurovchek  

page 4 The Observer Monday, April 30, 1990 
Hostage 
continued from page 1 
claimed Reed's abduction on Sept. 9, 1986. 
The statements, which did not 
say what the message to Wash­
ington would contain, left Pres­
ident Bush and Reed's relatives 
hopeful but cautious. 
"I just won't say anything," 
Bush said while golfing at An­
drews Air Force Base outside 
Washington. "If that proves to 
be true, that's wonderful." 
Leo~a Sprague, Reed's 91­
year-old mother, said she has 
"to keep faith." 
"It's an awful thrust in your 
side when you find out these 
things aren't true," she said 
from her home in Malden, 
Mass. 
Bob Langston, Reed's son-in­
law, said from his Malden 
home: "We're feeling cautious. 
It would be wonderful if this 
really happened. But there have 
been so many false alarms with 
the other hostages." 
In Iran, the Tehran Times 
quoted the unidentified Iranian 
official as saying "extensive 
talks" were going on between 
the kidnappers and Iran and a 
release was expected by Tues­
day night. 
The English-language news­
paper, considered close to Ira­
nian President Hashemi 
Hiler talks on public
•

serv1ce 
By DAVE CERTO 
News Writer 
Congressman John Hiler led 
an informal discussion on pub­
lic service in the Hesburgh li­
brary lounge Friday. Hiler, a 
Republican from the third dis­
trict of Indiana, represents 
South Bend and Mishawaka. 
Hiler began his presentation 
with an address on the changes 
occurring in public and foreign 
policy due to the breakup of the 
Eastern Bloc nations. He then 
answered questions as they 
were presented by the audience. 
When questioned about the 
proposed expansion of the 
Michiana Regional Airport, 
Hiler expressed interest in the 
project. "Businesses in the 
area cite access to the airport 
as on of the area's greatest as­
sets," Hiler said. He supports 
the improvements, despite the 
fact that a third airport is 
planned to serve Chicago. 
Other topics Hiler discussed 
included census-based cam­
paign strategies, federal child 
care proposals, and the federal 
budget deficit. Hiler also 
shared remarks on the distri­
bution of federal funds and the 
rules governing the two houses 
of Congress. 
Hiler was elected to the 
House of Representatives in 
1980. He now serves on three 
House committees, including 
the House Administration 
Committee, and Republican 
task forces on small business 
and child care. Hiler has re­
ceived numerous honors for 
service, including the Taxpay­
ers' Best Friend Award. 
The Hesburgh Program in 
Public Service sponsored Hiler's 
presentation. 
Quit smoking. 
&'aAmerican Heart 
.,.,. Association 
Rafsanjani, said in its Monday edition that Iran asked the kidnappers to free another captive. 
The statements in Beirut were accompanied by the first two photographs of Reed to be rf­leased since he was kidnapped and contained the first news of Reed since his abduction. 
The first communique was delivered around 6:30 p.m. 
(12:30 p.m. EDT), meaning that Reed would presumably be re­leased by that time on Tuesday. 
The statement said: "In the name of God the mer­ciful, the compassionate, 
"We have decided to free American hostage Frank Reed within 48 hours. He will carry a message addressed to the American administration.'' 
An-Nahar also received a color photograph of Reed in which he appeared neatly combed and clean shaven and wore a blue-and-white striped shirt. 
The Western news agency re­ceived a black-and-white photo of Reed, showing him with a bushy grey beard. He wore a dark T-shirt and looked straight into the camera with slightly hunched shoulders. People who knew Reed said he never wore a beard while living in Beirut before the kidnaooinl!'. indicating the black-and-white photo was probably taken of him in captivity. 


The later communique re­
peated the first message, 
claimed responsibility for the 
kidnapping and warned news 
media not to say he was being 
held by others. 
The name given for the group, the Islamic Dawn, sug­gests the kidnappers are pro­Iranian Shiite Moslem zealots like those holding most of the 17 Westerners missing in Le­banon. 
Reed, director of the Lebanese International School, was kidnapped near Beirut airport. Gunmen in a dark blue Volvo intercepted his car and seized him and the driver, who later was released. 
A previously unknown group, calling itself the Arab Revolu­tionary Cells -Omar Mukhtar Brigade, claimed responsibility for Reed's abduction in a statement released to Beirut newspapers five days after his abduction. 
There was no authentication of that statement, and kidnap­pers released no word on him until Sunday. 
Reed is one of 17 Western hostages, including seven Americans, held in Lebanon. The longest held is Terry An­'derson, chief Middle East cor­respondent for The Associated Press. He was kidnapped March 16, 1985. 
Earlier Sunday, Sen. David 
Boren, D-Okla.. chairman of 
the Senate Intelligence Commit­
tee, said he was "very opti­
mistic that we're going to see 
more hostages released." 

Interviewed on NBC's "Meet 
the Press" show in Washington, 
Boren said the reasons for that 
optimism include economic 
problems in Iran and Syria, in­
cluding a reduction in Soviet 
aid to Damascus. 
Reed had lived in Beirut since 
late 1977. He had converted to 
Islam to marry his second wife, 
Fahima, a Syrian Moslem. He 
has two children, Jacqueline 
and Marilyn, from his first 
marriage. 

Former French hostage Jean­
Paul Kauffmann said after his 
release on May 4, 1988, that he 
had seen Reed among hostages 
held by the pro-Iranian Shiite 
Moslem Islamic Jihad, or Is­
lamic holy war. 
Islamic Jihad holds Anderson, 42, of Lorain, Ohio, and Thomas Sutherland, 58, of Fort Collins, Colo. 
Sutherland, who was acting dean of agriculture at the American University of Beirut, was kidnapped June 9, 1985. 
The pro-Iranian group Is­lamic Jihad for the Liberation of Palestine freed Polhill, 55, of New York on April 22 after nearly 39 months in captivity. It called the move a goodwill ges­
ture. 
• 
''I'M A 
COLLEGE STUDENT AND WORKING FOR KELLY HAS HELPED ME UNDERSTAND THE BUSINESS 
WORLD.'' 

"I've broadened my education and expanded my knowledge. Improved my skills. It's the perfect job experience to put on a resume or an application." 
KEL•~yrem~orary
L Serv1ces 
• 
©1990 Kelly Services, Inc. The Kelly Giri®People-The First and The Best® EOE M/FIH/V Not an agency -never a fee 
Frank Reed 
'##$; • 
American 
kidnapped Sept. 9, 1986 
• 
Age,57, native of Malden, Mass., a suburb of Boston. 

• 
Left his post as school principal in Whitefield, N.H., to become director of elementary education at Beirut's International College in 19n. 


"*" 

• At the time of his abduction, 
was running the private Lebanese International School which he founded after his former school was
bOmbed out. tM·> ·
.,.

• 
Converted to Islam to marry his second wife, Fahima, 

... With Whom he has one son. Reed has two grown daughters wm a previousmtirfag ...1ft 


• 
Attended Harvard University, 


the University of Maine a if«Noitheastern.Universlty. 
AP 


•
: 
~--------------~· 
~------------------------------------------------------------­
----~~------------~--------------.-----~~~~.---~~~..~----------~~--~--------,--------------------~------~--------------------~ 


Soviets ease economic blockade on Lithuania 
MOSCOW (AP) -Lithuania's official radio said Sunday that the Soviet Union was easing its economic: blockade against the Baltie republic by nearly dou­bling the supply of natural gas. Lithuania's president said it was only a promise. 
The radio report said the natural gas was bound for a factory that supplies Moscow with chemicals and fertilizers. 
"Nothing has been con­nected." Lithuanian President Vytautas Landsbergis told NBC Nnws Sunday aftNnoon. It was promised that the gas supply was being increased, he said, "but that has not happened." 
A Lithuanian government spokesman also said that as of latf~ Sunday, inereased gas sup­plies had not yet arrived. 
Hesidents of the Baltic re­publie. whieh deelared indepen­dence March 1 1. organized a bicyde rally Sunday to show their defiance of the blockade. 
An estimated 20,000 more gathered in Cathedral Square in the capital, Vilnius, to hear the republic's orehestra perform Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. 
Landsbergis, a music profes­sor, has said that for him, the symphony symbolizes hope and humanity's "victory over slav­ery." 
Word of the sudden easing of the gas restriction came after both Lithuania and a spokesman for President Mikhail Gorbachev praised a proposed compromise to their dispute offered by France and West Germany. The two West­ern countries proposed Lithua­nia delay implementing its inde­pendence without rescinding the declaration itself. 
The Soviet Union has cut off all oil supplies, and shipments of many manufactured goods, raw materials and food items in an effort to make Lithuania baek away from the declaration of independence. 
Vilnius Radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp. in London, said the industrial plant at Jonova, whose natural gas supplies had been drasti­cally cut, was being resupplied. The plant supplies the Soviet Union with concentrated am­monium. resins, methanol and other products. 
If the amount promised the plant were delivered, it would nearly double the total natural gas flowing into the republic. 
But Paul Pauparas, manager of the Supreme Council legisla­ture's information department, said in a telephone interview that no extra supplies of gas had been received as of Sunday evening. 
Operators at the plant "have no exact information whether it will be really renewed or it is only promises," he said. 
He said details of the agree­ment to increase the flow of gas likely were provided di­rectly to the plant director by Moscow, but that government officials in Vilnius had not been able to confirm specifics. 
Earlier. Rita Radzavicius. a spokeswoman for the informa­tion department, had confirmed that the Jonova plant had started to receive its allotment of gas. 
The radio said the Jonova plant was to receive about 105 million cubic feet of natural gas 



u've earned your college diploma. And now it 
990 MERCURY TOPAZ 
nbe worth an easy $500 to you when you purchase anew Mercury. Your local Lincoln­Mercury Dealer can take care of the financing arrangements through Ford Credit. To receive $500 Cash Back from Ford Motor Company, all you have to do is take delivery of any new Mercury from dealer stock by December 31, 1990, or place afactory order by October 1, 1990 and graduate with abachelor's or advanced degree by December 31, 1990 from an accredited 4-year college or university. Select from Mercury Topaz, Cougar, Sable, Grand Marquis or beginning this summer, the new 1991 Mercury Tracer. You may even be able to use your $500 toward <--~fio:_c(c 

down payment. So pick the Mercury that f ~ \ est fits your new life-style, and get $500 cash ~-~ 
k. See your Lincoln-Mercury Dealer today! .../.) P4ll ~,.., 
lur Fonl Credit pmappmved cmdit. qualified boyers must have verifiable employmant begmmng v1'c 9:-'t' days of vehicle p~~n:flesa. Yow salafY must be sufficient to cover IMng expanses as well "t;Jsr pl\.00 car payment Apriof cmdit histnry isn"t necessafY. but ~ you have one. it must mdrcate payments 
MING THIS SUMMER-1991 MERCURY TRACER! 
each day -"almost sufficient for the plant to keep operating normally," it said. 
Radio Vilnius said from the beginning of the blockade, all of Lithuania had been receiving about 123 million cubic feet of natural gas per day -"just enough for everyday household needs." Before the blockade began, the republic received about 635 million cubic feet of natural gas a day. 
Pauparas said the Jonova plant had been receiving only about 24.7 million cubic feet of gas a day, and that most of its major production facilities al­ready had been shut down. 
That meant a loss to the So­viet Union of chemicals and fer­tilizers normally supplied by the plant, he said, adding that Lithuania uses a relatively small proportion of the prod­ucts made there. 
If the plant resumes full production, it will continue ful­filling its previous contracts, Pauparas said. 
The radio said about 30 per­cent of the plant's work force, or more than 1,000 people, would be going back to work on Monday. They had been forced out of work because of shortage of gas. 
There was no official an­nouncement by Moscow of a change of policy, but in an in­terview with the Tass news agency Saturday, the deputy chairman of the Soviet State Supply Committee Vladimir Kosyunin said Lithuania was receiving 30 percent of its nor­mal share of natural gas. When the restriction went into effect more than a week ago, it was receiving only about 16 percent. 
Gorbachev demanded two weeks ago that Lithuania re­scind new laws that exempted Lithuanians from the Soviet military draft, gave ownership of Communist Party buildings to Lithuania's independent Communists, and established new rules on citizenship that Russians living in Lithuania considered discriminatory. 
When the demands were not met, the Kremlin imposed the economic blockade. 

West German offical gives talk on re-unification; shows concern for economies 
By FRANK RIVERA News Writer 
"We belong together," said Ingrid Baumgartner, vice con­sul, Consulate General of the Federal Republic of Germany in Detroit, regarding the unifica­tion of East Germany and West Germany. 
One of the problems facing the economies of both Ger­manys is the introduction of the West German deutschemark to the East German citizens by July 1990, according to Baum­gartner. 
The main problem lies in the exchange value of the East German mark, said Baumgart­ner. This is due to the fact that no value has been agreed upon by both sides. 
Some officials feel the eur­rency should be a one-to-one exchange, while others believe there should be a two-for-one exchange, according to Baum­gartner. 
Another problem, said Baum­gartner, is the anxiety being expressed by several of Ger­many's European neighbors who feel that a unified Germany may become an aggressor na­tion. 
Baumgartner explained that Germany would not make any territorial claims other than the existing borders. In addi­tion, the unified Germany will seek membership in the west's military alliance. 
The unified Germany will be democratic in nature, said Baumgartner, but will also maintain close ties with the So­viet Union because of their co­operation in the proeess. 
There still remains the ques­tion of moving of the nation's capital from Bonn to Berlin, said Baumgartner. 
Bonn has been the symbolic capital of a free Germany, while Berlin is a symbol of Nazi Ger­many. She said such a move would be a gradual process be­cause of the sentiment felt, ac­cording to Baumgartner. 
Baumgartner strnssed, how­ever, that because of the split 
into two Germanys after World War II, East Germany lost the war "even worse" than West Germany. 
The Peace Institute of Notre Dame and the NO German Club sponsored Baumgartner's Fri­day lecture, titled "Internal and External Aspects of German Unification." 
Morse-Fortier named 'outstanding teacher' 
Special to The Observer 
Leonard Morse-Fortier, as­sistant professor of civil engi­neering at the University of Notre Dame, has been named the 1990 Outstanding Teacher of the College of Engineering. 
Morse-Fortier has consis­tently been ranked "excellent" by his students over the past seven semesters, according to Anthony Michel, McCloskey dean of engineering, and is knqwn for his keen interest in and his obvious passion for his subject. 
"His lectures and methods of teaching are clear, concise and interesting," said Michel, " and he is known for his great con­cern for the students, his avail­ability and willingness to de­vote extra time outside of class." 
Morse-Fortier received. his bachelor's degree in civil engi­neering from the University of Massachusetts in 1977 and his master's degree in civil engi­neering in 1979. He earned his doctorate in 1989, again in civil engineering, from Princeton. His doctoral thesis is on struc­tural inference in the art of vio­lin making. 
His research currently ex­plores architectual structures both theoretically and as his­torical paradigms for use in engineering education. He is working to change structural engineering pedagogy by in­cluding significant, built pro jects as a context for learning. 



---~~ -~---~~--~----------------------~---------­
page 6 
Mush! Mush! The Observer/Andrew McCloskey The team from Stanford Hall defeated Zahm Hall's team in An Tostal's mud chariot races Saturday. 
Zahm's chariot fell apart during the competition. 
Soviets admit to shooting down their own spy plane in U-2 affair 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet army newspaper disclosed for the first time Sunday that when the Russians downed a U.S. spy plane 30 years ago they also destroyed one of their own fighters that was pursuing the American U-2. 
The U-2, piloted by Francis Powers, was shot down on May 1, 1960, disrupting a summit meeting 19 days later in Paris between President Dwight Eisenhower and Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev and forcing the cancellation of another summit planned for later that year. 
Red Star, the Soviet army newspaper, said the Soviets lost a MiG-19 and its pilot in the operation. 
The paper also disclosed for the first time that the Soviets sent up a new fighter plane and ordered its pilot to ram the U-2 in a suicide mission. The new fighter reached the U-2's alti­tude but failed to ram it. 
The article, published three days before this year's May Day festivities, may have been in­tended to remind Soviet readers that U.S. actions have damaged superpower ties in the past. In recent days, Soviet officials have warned relations might suffer if Washington imposes sanctions on Moscow in retalia­tion for its crackdown on the Baltic republic of Lithuania. 
Red Star said that 
Khrushchev was atop Lenin's 
Mausoleum on Red Square 
Union. tributed to this story. 

Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
Support the 

March of Dimes 
......BIRTK-DEFECTS FOUNDATIONI--Iil 
Th•s space contributeq by the publisher 
watching the May Day parade when he learned that a new model Soviet SA-2 surface-to­air missile had brought down the U-2. 
The commander of the Soviet air defense forces, Marshal Sergei Biryuzov, climbed the mausoleum "carrying happy news, that the plane had been hit by the first rocket," the ar­ticle said. "And Khrushchev, standing right there on the tri­bune, congratulated the mar­shal." 
Khrushchev, in memoirs smuggled to the West and pub­lished in 1974, wrote that diplomats watching the parade knew something big had hap­pened because Biryuzov wore a duty uniform rather than the parade dress worn by the other military officers in Red Square. 
Soviets hurrying to the May Day parade in the Ural Moun­tain city of Sverdlovsk saw a far different sight, what ap­peared to be fireworks high in the air, said the article, signed by a Col. Dokuchayev. 
The fiery debris was not fire­works, but a Soviet MiG-19 that was hit by the same type of missile that exploded behind Power's U-2 and damaged it, Red Star said in the most de­tailed version of the Soviet mili­tary action. 
Powers' mission began in Pakistan and was to have car­ried him over Sverdlovsk for a landing in Norway. 


He used neither the automatic destruction device nor a poison pin he had been given in case the mission failed, and he was captured at a collective farm near Sverdlovsk. He was held for three years, then exchanged for the Soviet spy Rudolph Abel. Powers published his memoirs in 1970. 
The Soviet article disclosed for the first time that the Sovi­ets had ordered a new model Sukhoi-9 fighter to pursue the U-2 in an unsuccessful ram­ming attempt. The Su-9 was unarmed, but was able reach nearly to the 70,000 feet at which the U-2 operated, the re­port said. 
The Soviets also scrambled two MiG-19's, which were not capable of flying that high. The pilot of one MiG-19, Boris Ivazyan, reported to ground control that the debris from the U-2 was actually that from an SA-2 that had missed the U-2, prompting the ground battery tQ fire another. 
The next Soviet missile struck the MiG-19 flown by Sergei Safronov, 30, who was killed. He was one of 21 Soviets given medals for their role in bring­ing down Powers, and the Red Star article disclosed for the first time that he was honored posthumously. 
Ivazyan survived and later married Safronov's widow. 
U.S. accounts say that the de­cision to send Powers was con­troversial within the Eisen­hower administration. 
Monday, April 30, 1990 
Discovery lands Sunday after launching Hubble craft 
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. (AP) -Discovery glided safely back to Earth on Sunday, landing with new brakes after launching the $1.5 billion Hub­ble Space Telescope to search for clues to the universe's cre­ation. 
NASA engineers in Maryland, meanwhile, tried to figure out how to restore full movement to one of the telescope's two dish-shaped, high-speed anten­nas. 
They believe the antenna was caught behind a cable that bent outward from its proper posi­
tion  before  Discovery  was  
launched,  spokesman  Mike  
Harrington said.  

The shuttle touched down on a 15,000-foot concrete runway at this Mojave Desert military base at 6:49 a.m. after a slack­ening of 40 mph winds that threatened to delay the landing. 
The spacecraft rolled to a stop 63 seconds later. 
"Welcome back. Congratula­tions on a super mission," ground communicator Steve Oswald told the shuttle's crew. "The world is waiting to reap the benefits of your work over the next 15 years." 
"We sure enjoyed it also. It was great fun," replied Loren Shriver, Discovery's comman­
·der. 
About 20,000 people cheered Discovery's return as the na­tional anthem blared through loudspeakers. 
The astronauts emerged from the shuttle about 50 minutes after landing. Shriver was ac­companied by pilot Charles Bolden and mission specialists Steven Hawley, Bruce McCand­less and Kathryn Sullivan. 
A cheering crowd of several hundred people gave the astro­nauts a rousing sendoff before they boarded two jets to take them back to Houston four hours after the landing. 
"The Hubble space telescope is going to be a facility second to none," Hawley told the crowd. "Over the next 10, 15, and 20 years it will revolution­ize the way we look at our uni­verse and the way we under­stand where we came from and where we're going." 
Seven hours after touchdown, the astronauts returned home to Houston where they were greeted at Ellington Field by 

ARE YOU CONCERNED ABOUT: 
* 
female I male stereotypes on campus? 

*date and acquaintance rape? 

* 
sexual harassment and discrimination? 

* 
the changing structure of the family in the '90's? 


Anyone interested in working on the WOMEN'S CONCERNS COMISSION for next year: Contact RITA ROBINETT X2897 
about 300 well-wishers. They will have Monday off before re­porting back to work for a week of briefings. 
Engineers at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Green­belt, Md., continued the months-long process of check­ing out the 43-foot-long tele­scope and its sophisticated in­struments. 
The high-gain antenna should move from side to side 180 de­grees and from front to over­head to back 180 degrees. 
But when controllers moved it in recent days, it apparently got caught behind a "pretty hefty" power cable that warped out from its normal position against the 15-foot-long arm supporting the antenna, Har­rington said. 
He said the engineers proba­bly would attempt to back the antenna out of the trap some­time this week, allowing 180­degree motion on one axis and 150-degree motion on the other. 
Recent inspection of photos taken just before Discovery's payload bay doors were closed for launch revealed the cable had bowed outward, said Har­rington. 
"Our hope is that we'll be fully operational within a week," deputy project manager Jean Olivier. "The first pic­tures, I still feel, are approxi­mately a week away." 
To learn more about the an­tenna problem, the engineers got the telescope to transmit recorded data over a sec­ondary, low-gain antenna. Failure to fix the problem com­pletely would somewhat limit the information the telescope can send back to Earth, Olivier said. 
To place the telescope in the proper orbit on Wednesday, Discovery flew to an altitude of 380 miles, higher than any pre­vious shuttle. 
The returning shuttle crossed the California coast near Santa Barbara, announcing its arrival with the characteristic twin sonic booms. 
Discovery was the first shut­tle to land with new carbon brakes similar to those on pas­senger jetliners. 
Hours: Mon.-Fri. B:00-5:30 Sol. e:00-3:00 
MAPLE LANE BARBER SHOP 
2112 South Bend Avenue Soulh Bend, IN 46637 
272-6722 ~ 
Next to Cooch's ~ 

Monday, April 30, 1990 The Observer 
page 7 

Business Affairs promotion 
Special to The Observer 
James Lyphout, assistant vice president for business affairs at the University of Notre Dame, has been pro­motfld to assodate vice pres­ident. The promotion signals additional involvement in University finances and bud­get processes. 
Lyphout, who came to Notre Dame in 1984 after seven years as director of general services at North­western University, is a graduate of Western Illinois University, where he received undergraduate and master's degree in business adminis­tration. He also served as business administrator of Chicago Reed Mental Health Centflr. 
At Notre Dame, his re­sponsibilities have included University Food Service, fi­nancial aid. the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, en­vironmental hflalth and safety, risk management and safety, the Morris Inn, St. Michael's Laundry, Cedar Grove Cemetory, telecommu­nications and off-campus real estatfl. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Fred Zeder , a close friend of Presi­dent Bush and the head of a government agency, secretly set up a private company to do business in the Pacific islands in 1986 while serving as U.S. ambassador to the region, ac­cording to records and inter­views. 
Zeder didn't notify the State Department that he had created the company and didn't disqualify himself from making decisions as ambassador that could have affected his busi­ness. 
In an interview, Zeder said there was no legal requirement to notify the State Department about his company, Island De­velopment Foundation, or re­cuse himself from any govern­ment decisions. "There was no conflict between my official du­ties and my personal activities," he said. 
Zeder left the State Depart­ment in January 1987, three months after setting up his pri­vate company based in Honolulu. 
A close friend of the presi­dent, Zeder was the No. 2 offi­cial in the transition to the Bush administration and was later appointed by the president to head the federal Overseas Private Investment Corp. 
In his earlier government ser­vice, Zeder held the title of am­bassador as the President's Personal Re resentative for Mi-
Close friend of Bush had secret company 
Work by ND priest wins book award from Catholic Press Association 
Special to The Observer 
Ethics at Georgetown Univer­"The Critical Calling: Reflec­sity's Kennedy Institute of tions on Moral Dilemmas Since Ethics. A past president of the Vatican II," by Father Richard Catholic Theological Society of McCormick, John A. O'Brien America, he was awarded its Professor of Christian Ethics at Cardinal Spelleman Award in 
the University of Notre Dame, 1969. has received a 1990 Book Award from the Catholic Press Since 1965, he has published 
Association (CPA). the widely read "Noted on 
The award was announced Moral Theology" for April 21 during the CPA's an­"Theological Studies". Other nual convention, held this year recent books by Father Mc­in Nashville, Tenn. 
Cormick include "The Church as A member of the Notre Daille Moral Teacher" and "Persons faculty since 1986, Father Me-Patients and Problems." 

Senior electrical engineer 

lrhWN~ lbtlvltrt ~rhflvu~ ftilru.$!ibA~~~~~ 
Colfj~atalatiol(~/ tfoa 'u-ejPtireclt~e "Le1afOfu.J 11 Lov-e, fO~ 8~ot~e!"~ lfo/1( alflOal. 


cronesian Status Negotiations. 
During his tenure in that job from 1982-198 7, Zeder signed agreements providing a total of $30 million in economic devel­opment aid for Micronesia and the Marshall Islands. 
His firm, Island Development, was set up to "solicit participa­tion" in development efforts in those areas and elsewhere in the Pacific rim, according to the company's incorporation papers. 
The firm was incorporated on Oct. 14, 1986, four days after Zeder had signed a treaty pro­viding $6 million in U.S. devel­opment aid for the Marshall Is­lands. 
Zeder said Island Develop­ment advised private firms on how to do business in the Pa­cific. He said it never received any government money. 
But some of the $6 million ­a $1.2 million line of credit ­was used to establish a ship registry in the Marshall Islands that is being operated by a pri­vate company partly owned by Zeder's son, Howard Zeder. 
The registry was set up on behalf of the Republic of the Marshall Islands Maritime Au­thority -a local government agency of which Howard Zeder is also commissioner. 
Howard Zeder declined in the past to reveal the exact finan­cial arrangements between the maritime authority and Mar­itime Registry Management Inc., the private company he heads that operates the reg­istry. 
Howard Zeder also was a di­rector of Island Development, which at one point shared office space with the Marshall Islands Maritime Authority. Howard Zeder did not return a telephone call from a reporter seeking comment. Fred Zeder said the State Department ap­proved his son's involvement in the maritime authority in 1988. 
While actual conflicts of in­terest are felonies, activities which give the appearance of such conflicts are prohibited by a presidential executive order and by State Department rules. 
One federal regulation bars an employee from having a "direct or indirect financial in­terest that conflicts substan­tially, or appears to conflict substantially with the em­ployee's government duties or responsibilities." 
Another says an employee cannot "engage in, directly or indirectly, a financial transac­tion as a result of, or primarily relying on, information ob­tained through government employment." 
Fred Zeder said none of these rules applied to his involvement with Island Development. "l understand that State Depart­ment procedures may have changed somewhat since 1987 ," he added. 
A State Department ethics of­ficer, speaking on condition he not be further identified, said that "over the years, interpre­tations of various statutes have been ... stricter and stricter." 
He said the Zeder case could warrant further scrutiny. In general, he said, there are ways to avoid a conflict: "Divesting of any financial interest or not starting one, recusal, a waiver or termination." 
George Jones, vice president of the American Foreign Ser­vice Association, said the case posed problems because Zeder failed to notify State's legal of­fice about the company. 
"There is basis for investiga­tion, at the very least," Jones said. 
A native of New Jersey who later moved to Dallas, Zeder is a wealthy businessman and one of Bush's closest friends. They went fishing together earlier this month in Florida. 
Zeder was a fund-raiser for Bush during his presidential campaign, and he and Secre­tary of States James Baker III were the highest-paid advisers in Bush's presidential transi­tion office. Bush nominated Zeder last year to head OPIC, a governillent agency that pro­motes economic development abroad. 
Zeder's connection to Island Development surfaced in a fi­nancial disclosure form he filed in March 1989 . 

MUSICIANS T~NOTE! major wins Stauder Award for service to department
V F F I U 0 Qt :II 
tween

By DAVID CERTO News Writer 
John Slattery, a senior engi­neering major, received the SAINT MARY 1S COLLEGE Lawrence F. Stauder Award for service to the department of electrical engineering. Mrs.
MUSIC GROUP LEADERS NEEDED 
Lawrence Stauder presented the award last Thursday after 
for a departmental dinner and re­
ception at the Morris Inn. One of three awards given by 
SUNDAY MASSES 

the department to graduating
1990-91 Academic Year 
seniors, the Stauder Award confers a certificate, an hono­rarium, and a plaque. 
Opening for pianists, guitarists, strong Slattery has been active in 
Illany engineering activities, in­
vocalists or flutists 
cluding work as a liaison be-
industry and students, volunteering for the Institute for Electronic and Electrical Engineers (IEEE), and coordi­nating Thursday's banquet. Slattery intends to accept a po­sition with Anderson Consulting of Chicago after graduation. 

The Stauder Award was established in memory of Pro­fessor Lawrence Stauder, an electrical engineering instructor at Notre Dame and a nationally respected expert on electricity. Stauder also served the Notre Dame Credit Union, the Saint Vincent de Paul Society, and Sacred Heart Church. He worked for over thirty years as the advisor for the IEEE. 
PAID POSITION THROUGH FINANCIAL AID 
Sobering Advice·;~ 
Interested persons should contact Sister Betty Smoyer, S.N.O. 
cansavealife;~Campus Ministry 160 Regina Hall 
Think Before You Drink /~~
Before You Drive .f.···Phone 284-5392 

page 8 The Observer Monday, April 30, 1990 
Bush talks to Pro-Life rally in nation's capital 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­attended by an estimated dent Bush told a "Rally for 300,000 people a year ago, and Life" Saturday that "the outstrip the 75,000 who at­widespread prevalence of tended a January anti-abortion abortion in America is a march in Washington. ' tragedy" but omitted any men­The crowd mostly filled the tion of his once-outspoken sup­grassy area surrounding the port for a constitutional Washington Monument. As amendment outlawing abortion. springtime heat sent tempera­
The president, who spent the tures approaching 90 degrees, morning fishing on the Po­some sought shade from sur­tomac River, spoke by tele­rounding trees and others phone hookup to tens of thou­made their own out of anti­sands of people who gathered abortion placards. Lines to re­on the Mall by the Washington freshment stands stretched 80 Monument just a few blocks yards, and the line to a water from the White House. fountain ran 30 yards. 
Bush spoke for just two and a Kate Michelman, head of the half minutes. He offered en­National Abortion Rights Ac­couragement to abortion oppo­tion League, said her side's nents without referring to pro­political and election successes posals to amend the Constitu­in a number of states -and tion or to the possibility the not Saturday's crowd-are the Supreme Court would one day accurate measure of public reverse its 1973 decision opinion on abortion. upholding abortion. In his remarks, Bush also 
"Like you, I realize that the made no direct reference to po­widespread prevalence of litical divisions within his own abortion in America is a Republican party over abortion, tragedy, not only in terms of or to efforts by abortion oppo­lives destroyed but because it nents to win abortion restric­so fundamentally contradicts tions in state legislatures. the values we as Americans A year ago Bush emphasized hold dear," Bush said. to a similar gathering that he 
The rally was designed to supported a constitutional demonstrate strength by an amendment to reverse the question. I know from your terrible reality of unlimited Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., anti-abortion movement that Supreme Court's landmark Roe devotion and selflessness that abortion on demand." known for his sponsorship of has suffered recent political vs. Wade decision that effec­this day cannot be far away," "The pro-life movement is the anti-abortion riders to gov­setbacks and to reverse the im­tively gave women the right to Bush said. humanitarian movement of our ernment appropriations bills, pression that anti-abortion abortion on demand. time," Quayle said. called the other side's "pro­forces have been in political de­Bush pointed to adoption as Vice President Dan Quayle Entertainment began early in choice" slogan a fraud. He cline. the appropriate alternative to appeared before the group and the day, long before the after­said: "The answer to that is, 
U.S. Park Police estimated the abortion. called legal abortion "a terrible noon program of Catholic car­'Madam, if you're pregnant, crowd at 200,000 people at 4 "Our mission must be to help wound which for almost two dinals, television evangelists, you have a baby! You have a p.m., up from an earlier esti­more and more Americans decades has torn at our coun­country and gospel singers, and baby!' Nobody should have the mate of 60,000 before the really make the right choice, the try's heart." anti-abortion leaders. choice to kill an innocent hu­began. Speakers at the rally choice for life," Bush said. man life once it's begun." claimed larger numbers. "One day your lifesaving mes­Quayle also did not directly "I'm here because I feel real The rally was held at a time 
The National Right to Life sage will have reached and in­refer to efforts to reverse the strongly that babies have a when their side has sustained a Committee, the rally's sponsors, fluenced every American. And Supreme Court decision or to right to live," said country series of losses in elections and had hoped for a crowd that until then, continue to work for amend the Constitution. But he singer Terri Gibbs, who in state capitals in the wake of rivaled in size an abortion­the day when respect for human asserted that "a great majority brought her 6-month-old son the Supreme Court's Webster rights gathering here that was life is sacrosanct and beyond stands together against the David. decision last summer. 

Alcohol and bigotry said to be hurting college campuses 
NEW YORK (AP) -Alcohol, drug abuse, crime and bigotry are breaking down the social and intellectual fabric at many college campuses, according to a report released Sunday. 
"The idyllic vision so routinely portrayed in college pro­motional materials often masks disturbing realities of student life," concluded "Campus Life: In Search of Community." 
The 148-page study was a joint project of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advance­ment of Teaching, in Princeton, N.J., and the American Council on Education, a Washington. 
D.C.-based higher education lobbying group. 
The findings were based on visits to 18 campuses, inter­views with teachers, students and administrators across the nation, and national surveys of 382 college and university presidents and 355 chief stu­dent affairs officers conducted in 1989. 
Among the survey findings: 
• 
52 percent of the college presidents said the quality of campus life was a greater con­cern than a few years ago. 

• 
two-thirds of the presidents considered alcohol abuse a 



"moderate" or "major" problem. 
• 
43 percent said campus crime had increased over the past five years. 

• 
One out of four presidents said racial tensions were prob­lems on their campuses. 

• 
62 percent of presidents at research-oriented universities said sexual harassment was a "moderate" or "major" prob­lem, and 48 percent said the same of racial harassment. 

• 
60 percent of student af­fairs officers said their campus had a written policy on bigotry, and an additional 11 percent 


said they were working on one. 
"Since the '60s, the notion of universities having parental au­thority has greatly diminished," said Ernest Boyer, president of Carnegie, in an interview. 
"But we haven't found new ways to think about the social and civic dimensions of campus life," he said. "Universities don't know how to exercise au­thority even when they see inci­vility." 
Presidents surveyed said they didn't yearn for the days when colleges had strict behavior rules. But many are confused about how to cope with social ills -how, for example, to combat bigotry without becom­ing censors. 
Too many have "sought to sidestep rather than confront the issue," the report con­cluded. 
"We carry a stigma," said one Hispanic student inter­viewed. "When I first came here as a freshman, a white under­graduate said to me, 'You're here, but my friend who is bet­ter qualified is not."' 
Rape 
continued from page 1 

rape of a Saint Mary's student occurred at 10 p.m. Easter Sunday on Saint Mary's Road near the Holy Cross community cemetery. 
On April 19, a female Notre Dame student was attacked at 

ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 
IDENI!ON; INlfHII'"PTEACHERS P..toct-""'rf'f/ FT .........in U.S.A. 
Tol<lo,_iii'·-.........-­
S'"'Iang-.-~.pr-l 

lmlllodoiOcuh-...loot-.-incomo f>rough
od>aoi_.No_no__ 

..,..... ---w.yllo.ndoy, 7pm· 
--lh....... f_Horman. 
Notre Dame at about 2 a.m. near the ROTC building, ac­cording to Conklin. 
A Saint Mary's student was the victim of an assault at 3:15 
a.m. on April 25 near the inter­section of U.S. 31 and Angela Boulevard. A 26-year-old South Bend resident has been charged in connection with the incident, acr.ording to Conklin. 

Transfer 
continued from page 1 
majority of them decide to transfer here," Reinebold said. 
Reinebold said that when transfer students do get a room on-campus, they are not, as a policy, placed with other transfer students. "They are 
Now in our new location: 1724 N Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 272-0129 
Bicycles by: *Raleigh *Basso *Bridgestone *Miele *Eddy Merckx *DeRosa *Pinarello 
The area's ONLY certified FIT-KIT Technicians for proper fit and position • NECA Frame Alignment •Customer Wheel Building •Certified Mechanics 

placed into whatever bed is available." 
Reinebold said that she does not anticipate any improve­ments in the housing situation next year. In fact, due to the closing of Holy Cross Hall, the situation for male transfer stu­dents might be worse. 
"I wish we could find space for every transfer student that comes here," she said. 
• : I 

11111111111111 
COLLEG~~ 
GRADUATE FINANCE PLAN 
YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 
YOU'VE EARNED IT. 
UnitedWay I • 
• 

Jordan's Auto Mall 609 E. Jefferson Mishawaka (219) 259-1981 
. 
!' 

Business 
Monday, April 30, 1990 page 9 

Toxic waste on property is unexpected mess for S&Ls 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­Federal regulators cleaning up bankrupt savings and loans are finding they've In­herited another unexpected and expensive mess: real estate contaminated by haz­ardous waste. 
Ofticials at the Resolution Trust Fund. which has taken over more than 400 insolvent S&Ls, say some of the failed finandal institutions had foreclosed on polluted prop­erty. 
Hoeent eourt rulings have found that financial institu­tions are potentially liable for donning up such prop­erty under the 1980 Super­fund law. By extension, that could put the HTC on the hook. 
The RTC doesn't know yet how many of its more than 30,000 real estate parcels are contaminated, but agency spokesman Stephen Katsanos says, ''I'm confi­dent there are sites in our inventory that ... need some cleanup." 
The RTC, already faced with an flStimated $325 bil­lion price tag for its S&L bailout, thinks the Environ­mental Protection Agency's Superfund should foot the bill on any failed S&L prop­erty cleanups. 
"The taxpayer is going to he paying for it one way or another ... but if it comes out of the RTC then it reduces the amount of money avail· able to protect deposits," Katsanos said. 
A bigger problem than the actual cleanup cost is the cloud of uncertainty cast over the RTC's_I>_ortfolio. 

Japan taken off list of nations with 'offensive trade barriers' by Bush 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­dent Bush on Friday removed Japan from a "hit list" of coun­tries judged to have erected the most offensive trade barriers against American products, rewarding Japanese efforts to ease trade tensions between the two economic superpowers. 
Instead, the president said he had decided to cite only one country -India -under a tough section of U.S. trade law which provides for economic retaliation if the offending bar­riers are not removed. 
The decision brought imme­diate protests from members of Congress, who charged the administration had made a se­rious mistake in not naming Japan, the country Congress specifically had in mind when it wrote the provision, known as Super 301, into the 1988 Trade Act. 
"I am thunderstruck," Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., said in a Senate floor speech. "Excuse me, Mr. President, but this boggles the mind. . . . Letting Japan off the hook is a serious mistake and I think Congress ought to take a look at it." 
Critics said Japan needed to be targeted to keep pressure on the government of Prime Minis­ter Toshiki Kaifu to live up to a flurry of trade concessions he has made aimed at lowering America's huge $49 billion trade deficit with Japan. 
"It is clear that Japan should be on the Jist," said Sen. Don Riegle, D-Mich., one of the sponsors of the Super 301 pro­vision. "Our government is not using the tools that are avail­able to correct this continuing hemorrhage of U.S. capital and jobs." 
But Bush, in announcing his decision, said he was persuaded that Kaifu shared "my com­mitment to ensuring that trade strengthens, rather than un­dermines, the friendship be­tween our nations." 
Administration officials said targeting Japan could provoke a public backlash against the United States and make Kaifu's job of reforming Japan's trad­ing system even more difficult. 
"We believe that the most ef­fective way to achieve results is through cooperation, not con­frontation," U.S. Trade Repre­sentative Carla Hills told re­porters. · 
Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Nakayama praised the president's decision, saying it upheld his government's posi­tion that it would not negotiate with the United States under threat of retaliation. 
But House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt called the de­cision a "free trade furlough." 

First quarter economy grows 2.1 percent despite inflation 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The "The inflation number was quarter, he said. and backlots. nation's economy grew at a absolutely ugly," remarked But Villamil was upbeat Other than inventories, how-surprising 2.1 percent rate in Robert Dederick, chief about the 2.1 percent GNP ever, increases in the GNP were the first quarter, the govern-economist of the Northern grow, which nearly doubled the widespread. Consumer spend­ment reported Friday, but ann-Trust Co. in Chicago. 1.1 percent rate during the ing, which accounts for two­lysts said an "ugly" inflation Be and other analysts said fourth quarter and came close thirds of economic activity, rate could mean higher interest the pace of inflation -boosted to matching the administra-rose 2.5 percent after a meager rates that would slow growth in part by the weather -prob-tion's 2.2 percent forecast. 0.5 percent advance in the pre­latnr this year. ably will slow during the cur-The administration is count-vious quarter. 
"We have set ourselves up for rent quarter to the 4.5 percent-ing on a growing economy to Durable goods, which had a halfway decent first half of 5 percent range. help narrow the federal budget
1990," said Donald Straszheim, But that still means the Fed-deficit. through December, more than chillf economist for Merrill era! Reserve will not lower in-"Despite the larger price recovered with a 17 percent Lynch Capital Markets in New terest rates and may decide to rise," Villamil said, "the first jump. Automobiles accounted York. "But, by the end of the boost them further to slow the quarter still had encouraging for about two-thirds of the in-year, the economy will be slow-price spiral, they contend. developments -signs of the crease. ing." Higher rates curb growth in economy's resilience." The trade deficit narrowed as 
In addition to the strength in the construction and other in-Most economists agreed. exports rose 0.9 percent while the gross national product -terest-sensitive industries by "On the GNP data, one can't imports dropped 2.8 percent. the nation's total output of raising the cost of borrowing. tinct anything wrong with this The deficit is the difference be-goods and services -the J. Antonio Villamil, the Com-economy," said Allen Sinai, tween the two. Commerce Department re-merce Department's chief chief economist with the Boston Business investment for ex­portnd that inflation jumped economist, called the inflation Co. "Everything is up except in-pansion and modernization 
6.5 pereent, its steepest jump report "disappointing news." ventories," a development he rose 7.6 percent after declining 
sincn a 7.7 percllnt increase in Without the weather effect and said was a "healthy sign." 5.4 percent the previous quar­the fourth quartnr of 1981. The a federal pay raise that went Lower inventories usually re-ter. Housing construction, GNP inflation rate for 1989 into effect in January, prices suit in a rise in production as which was down 1.1 percent at Quarterly was 4.5 percent. still rose 5.2 percent during the companies restock their shelves year's end, jumped 8.5 percent. 
~-----------------------------------------------------Source: U.S. Dept. of Commerce AP 
Readers with 'get Lou rich' ideas advise mutual fund in program trading 
I'm always amazed at the idiocy of program trading if little more poison on the France and Japan. none of number of noble readers you were to go through the BY LOUIS RUKEYSER side. which requires a minimum whose highest mission in life steps of organizing a mutual The authentic issue is not holding period. And in West appears to be to make me fund?" he asks. Tribune Media Services who gets the initial cut, but Germany, assets held more rich. Week after week, these Tongue ever deeper in whether such a reduction than six months can be sold commendable (and confi­cheek, he continues: "The But in case anybody else will (as it always has) in­tax-free. dent) souls send me "sure­preparation of the prospec­out there wants to crease jobs, living Isn't it time for someone fire" investment tips­tus would be fabulous. Here undertake this marvelous standards, economic growth to deliver a wake-up­though, to be candid, if I had would be the first absolutely career opportunity, let me and American America call on Capitol Hill? ever actually taken this un­sure thing on Wall Street, or add that Futoran even has a competitiveness. With our I wouldn't dream of com­solicited advice, I would be any street for that matter. terrific name for the fund, low rate of savings and paring the stock market to even poorer than I am. This fund could render any which I pass along with my investment already a na­any form of gambling 
But charity springs eter­further investment in stocks compliments. Says he: "It tional scandal, and with (heaven forfend), but I am nally, and today I want to obsolete. With the ability to could be called the Legal heightened competition grateful to John Martone, ·of express my thanks publicly go short without upticks, Crime Fund, a near-perfect looming from the Pacific Mahopac, N.Y., for to Hobert Futoran, of Pom­take advantage of front­oxymoron." Rim to a uniting Europe, a reporting a number of pano Beach, Fla., for an running, and manipulate the For the moment, the capi­reasonable person might stunning similarities in a amusing parody of the entire market, especially on the tal-gains tax debate seems think it high time for single day's results at get-Lou-rich syndrome. His downside, the profit poten­to have stalled in Washing­Washington to rise above Aqueduct race track: "Y Go suggestion for replenishing tial would exceed simple ton, halted. in a flurry of politics as usual. On Dreaming won the fifth the Rukeyser family coffers pure arbitrage." demagoguery about who Meanwhile, it may be use­race, while Bundleomoney is that I immediately launch I'm half-tempted to pursue would get the immediate ful to note that capital-gains won but was disqualified in a billion-dollar mutual fund Futoran's billion-dollar sug­benefits. The leading tax­taxation continues to be the seventh. School for that will indulge exclusively gestion, if only to hear all happy congressman, Ways significantly lower in every Scandal finished third in in program trading. the impassioned explana­and Means chairman Dan country that is giving us fits that race. Strong Finish in 
Truth is, Futoran strongly tions from Wall Street pooh Rostenkowski, even has on the trade front. The tax the eighth didn't, nor did supports my long crusade bahs as to why such activi­threatened to tie any reduc­is zero in Hong Kong, Smart Alex in the ninth. T.V. against this detestable insti­ties would be impossible and tion to an increase in other Malaysia, Singapore, South Wizard won the ninth, but tutional game, but instead of unacceptable for ordinary rates-which is like a doctor Korea and Taiwan, as well I'll leave that up to your just joining the outcry he folks like thee and me. For saying that if he gives you as in Belgium, Italy and the imagination as to Its wants to do something the moment, though, I've the medicine you need for Netherlands. It is sharply relevance." about it. "Wouldn't it be a decided to stick to my day what ails you, you have to lower than that in the U.S. Surely this guy is just dramatic exposure of the job. promise him you 'II take a in, among others, Canada, horsing around. 

Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, April 30, 1990 
,-Ihe Obsenet__ 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 199D-91 General Board 
Editor-ln.Chlaf Alison Cocks Managing Editor Buslneaa Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
N-s Editor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ••••••••.Beth Bolger VI-point Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor •.•••••••••••.••.•••.Greg Guffey Production Manager •••.....Joe Zadrozny Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ..••Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ..•••••••••••......••••.•Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ••••....Corinne Pavlis Controller••.•..••••.•.•...•••...Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS 

Pax Christi stands by gays and lesbians at Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: those who are gay or lesbian. GLND/SMC to meet openly on 
Pax Christi is a Catholic, paci­Pax Christi-NO stands in sol­campus and by publicly pledg­fist organization which seeks idarity with Gays and Lesbians ing itself not to discriminate the end of violence, discrimina­at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's against its employees or stu­tion and persecution wherever College. We recognize and dents on the basis of sexual these are found. applaud their many orientation. 
Gays and lesbians do not en­contributions to Notre Dame We especially appeal to the joy many of the freedoms that and to Pax Christi. We affirm students of Notre Dame and others take for granted in this their right to choose and live Saint Mary's College. Stand up country. They face open dis­their own lifestyle. to your friends when they make crimination in pursuing many We will work toward the hateful or ignorant statements careers. Psychological and ending of discrimination, vio­about lesbians and gays. Reach physical violence against them lence and persecution of les­out to your gay and lesbian is not unusual. We are painfully bians and gay men at Note classmates with love and accep­aware that our own Catholic Dame and by the Catholic tance. Church is among the worst of­Church. We dissent from the fenders in discriminating teachings of the Vatican re­Richard Conroy, Off-Campus against and doing violence to garding homosexuality because Joseph Gress. Off-Campus its lesbian and gay members. we believe that these are in er­David Holsinger, St. Ed's Notre Dame discriminates by ror scientifically and are a Robin Cochrane, McCandless refusing to allow them to meet form of violence against gay Emily Neufeld. Lewis openly on campus. Many stu­men and lesbians. We call on George Smith. Grace dents on our campus use de­our university to end its own Paul Rowe, St. Ed's grading labels and harass discrimination by allowing Jeff Long. Pangborn 
Stigma attached to rape victims must be eliminated before justice is served 
Dear Editor: they rear being questioned, cution of accused attackers; 
I am writing in response to doubted and accused. In addi­4. to demand increased the April 26 Inside Column, tion, they fear that their at­awareness of date and acquain­"Printing rape victims' names tackers will not be brought to tance rape on campus. not solution." Kelley Tuthill ex­justice, in spite of the turmoil Until these steps are taken, presses concern that by print­their experience. To eliminate rape victims on this campus ing the names of rape victims in the stigma rape victims experi­will continue to feel like the newspapers, "we will return to ence, it is time for the Notre criminals they cannot bring the days when women did not Dame/Saint Mary's student themselves to accuse for fear of report rapes for fear that they community to do the following: social alienation and lack of re­would be treated more like 1. to demand public acknowl­sults. criminals than victims." Return edgement that these crimes oc­to those days? We are living cur; through those days right now. 2. to demand to be informed Rita Robinett Victimized women right here on of a women's options when she Pasquerilla West the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's has been raped; Women's Concerns Commis­campuses do not report rapes 3. to demand to be informed sioner or assaults precisely because of the policy regarding prose-April 26. 1990 
Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

X-rated film to be shown at Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: ing artistic value at all. From 
On Monday, April 30, the ftlm what I saw, the film dealt with "Desperate Living" is to be murder, lesbianism, mental ill­shown at the Annenberg ness, cannibalism and God Auditorium. Personally, I knows what else, considering cannot believe that there has that I found it hard to watch not been an uproar concerning most of the film. There's even a the showing of this film at scene in the film that hints at Notre Dame. I was not gang rape and shows the inject­personally opposed when "The ing of a woman with rabies. Last Temptation of Christ" The film is definitely vile. but it showed on campus because I also looks amateurish. It's be­considered it a controversial low the quality that we have piece of art that raised impor­come to expect from normal tant issues concerning the na­Hollywood films, or for that ture of Christianity and the du­matter, the films which usually ality of man. This film, how­show at the Snite. ever, is one of the most disgust­I wish that all the people who ing pornographic pieces of filth protested "The Last that exists. I find it hard to be­Temptation of Christ" would be lieve that this university can moved to similar rage over condone the showing of an X­"Desperate Living," a film much rated film. That's right, more deserving condemnation. "Desperate Living" is an X­One thing's for certain;I won't rated film, and Notre Dame be in the audience at the Snite obviously considers it worthy of on April 30. serious academic discussion. 
I was once subjected to this Julie White film a few years ago, and I can Off-campus tell you that it has no redeem-Apri/25, 1990 

DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'One generation passeth away, 
and another generation cometh; 
but the Earth abideth forever.' 
Ecclesiastes 

J 
Monday, April 30, 1990 
VielMpoint______~--~--~~Pa~ge~11 
LETTERS 

Earth Day leaders offer realistic, not radical. solutions 

!Jear Editor: 
the environment in mind rema r environmental concerns in in the hands of the signee. 8 p.m. tonight and perhaps he, then everything is a sacrament tive? A major source of strain the U.S. Senate for 18 years, Given the crises facing the himself, will explain what he of the goodness and creative on the carrying capacity of the former Senator Gaylord Nel­­planet, that doesn't seem to be means by this statement. power of Goa. This means that earth is the population explo­son, the founder of Earth Day, an overly zealous approach. Although it is in vogue our incredible misuse of the sion, and it requires immediate is an authority on such issues. 
The Ilonorable Gaylord Nel­today, the idea that the Bible earth and the destruction of so attention. The mainstream en­The lecture Monday is a son, who Murray quotes as supports the man-centered view much life is a blasphemy, for vironmental movement's tremendous opportunity for ev­saying, "Man is just one of the of nature is not the only we have been horrible caretak­agenda, is that one, we as indi­eryone who plans to be alive for creatures that the Lord put on traditional interpretation. As ers of God's creation. We are viduals and as a society must· the next ten years. this earth and is not more im­Father Michael Himes points destroying eight species of life use our resources more care­James Dailey portant that all the rest," is not out, "Since everything that is per day, and that could increase fully; two, funding should be Past President of the Envi­expressing a radical view. The exists because of the free act of to 100 per day within ten years given to family planning, espe­ronmental Action Club form11r Senator Nelson will be God--the overflowing agape if present trends continue. cially in the area of education; April 26, 1990 
Volunteers are needed to tutor disadvantaged children 
/Jear Editor: sponsibilities to the St. Hedwig ever, these mystery volunteers an everlasting commitment, but hour a week with a child whom 
I am writing this letter to Outreach Center. In an effort to have not surfa.cf',;~ rather for a dedicated tutor society has failed? What selfish voice my frustration concerning inform freshmen about this This program involves little who is genuinely concerned for message are we sending to the manner in which the fresh­program, the St. Hedwig's commitment. All we ask is that the children's well-being. Too these children? Are you willing man class has "received" its commissioners sent numerous a volunteer be willing to spend often, I hear the excuse, "I have to fail them too? class project--the St. Hedwig's newsletters to them. Upon re­approximately one to three too much to do," from people The van leaves every Monday, Tutoring Program. This pro­ceiving some interest, a com­hours a week tutoring children who wish to justify their lazi­Tuesday, and Thursday from gram involves Notre Dame stu­mittee of faithful volunteers who desperately need some ness. My reply to this excuse is behind Lyons at 4:15 p.m. 
-

dents tutoring disadvantaged promptly called all of the guidance and assurance in not simple: so does everyone else Please, put your own worries children from the South Bend prospective tutors. The com­only their homework, but also who is involved with this pro­aside and help those who truly community three times a week. mittee has since repeatedly in their lives. These children gram. It saddens me to see have problems. Hecognizing the importance of called these interested tutors in lack the nurturing and love that such a selfish attitude present such a program, the Freshman an effort to update them about most, if not all, of us were for­in such a "caring" environment. Jenny Witt Class Council agreed to adopt scheduled activities for the tunate to receive during our Just think about it--what is Siegfried Hall the current senior class' re-children. Unfortunately, how-own childhood. We ask not for spending at the very least one Apri/28. 1990 

NBC television deal will help alleviate financial aid problems at Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: 
,me of the 1995 season. Each 
The television football cor ar the money will be added to tract with NBC has brought UJ 1tre Dame's previous endow­favorable publicity to Not1 mt budget of $550 million. Dame. Even the students crit holarships for the 1992-93 cize the deal, wearing shir 10ol year will be the first to bearing the NBC Peacock an ~ the interest from that en­"Notre Dame Broadcastin wment. Eventually, the new Company." After speaking wi1 n will help hundreds of stu­the director of financial ai1 lts in need of finaneial help. Joseph Russo, however, I rea ized that, regardless of the b2 rhe scholarships are not de­press, the deal with NBC wi ned for athletes nor any greatly benefit the University. er designated group; they 
Notre Dame is known fc unrestricted. The University football and academics, not fc plans to continue strate­financial aid. A committee, di devised by the committee rected by Thomas Masson, wa Jre the NBC contract ap­formed last spring to develo red, in order to relieve the new ways to increase th Ients' financial burden of amount of money available fu, LtH~Vl;:,lUH lJUuu O.LL nu.. .u L'1.u...._., ~ .....nding Notre Dame. The scholarships. After comparing most of which was directed television contract has just put the Notre Dame financial aid back into the athletic depart­a large dent into solving the plan with the plans of 36 Ivy ment, had been budgeted for problem. League schools and 100 other years. The contract with NBC colleges and universities, the increased the amount of money The Class of 1993 will be the committee officially acknowl­Notre Dame receives for the only class currently attending edged the desperate need to rights to televise the football Notre Dame to pi'ofit from the improve Notre Dame's financial games. The previous budget benefits of the NBC television aid program. The committee remains the same, leaving mil­contract drawn earlier this members researched ideas for lions of dollars to be placed in year. Even so, the addition to increasing the volume of schol­other divisions of the Univer­the financial aid endowment arship funds, and only then did sity. The long-range goal of the fund is a good step towards al­the NBC contract come into University, to meet the financial lowing those qualified, but play. The financial aid money need of all the undergraduate needy, students the chance to derived from the television con­students has, thus, greatly ben­attend the University of Notre tract, Russo emphasized, was efited from the excess of funds. Dame. not received in order to justify The money will be given to the Notre Dame's deal with NBC. University in installments over The scholarship money carne to a five year period, beginning Annemarie Benson the University at the time when with the 1991 football season Pasquerilla West it was needed most. and concluding after the final Apri/28. 1990 
The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the more concise the piece, the less we will have to edit it to fill our space. 
,-____________-_----~~ 
Accent 
eage 12 Monday, April 30, 1990 
A look back at the best 
Everything from best comedy to best reason to stay in on Tuesday 
It began in mid-September and has been an entourage of 

Joe interesting erttertainment since. 
Bucolo

Network executives promised 
this season would be great, To be 
and now it's time to take a look 
Continued

back to make some judgements. 
Situation comedies were, by 
far, the most popular series this 
year. Old.favorites continued to of the nineties to these sudsy 
-spew forth witty entertainment; shows. "Twin Peaks," the sea­however, "Cheers" and "The son's Best-and Only-NewGolden Girls" were clearly the Prime Time Soap has received season's Best Comedies. Both rave reviews and has managed programs proved that excellent to acquire massive audience writing and great characters support. are the key to success-even for The Best Reason to Watch shows that have been around Fox is "The Simpsons," Matt for some time. Groenig's cartoon comedy. The While not as popular as stories are hilarious, and peo­comedies, television dramas ple tune in, if for no other rea­provided intrigue and suspense son, to hear Bart grunt, "Ah, 
"The Wonder Years" provide the 

that kept viewers coming back man."
best reason to stay in on Tuesday.
for more. The Best Drama of "Doogie Howser, M.D." re­the season was definitely "L.A. ceives the Only in America 
proved to be the season's Best 

Law," while "Knots Landing" award. Where else could an
New Drama while CBS' "City,"

once again reigned as the year's adolescent just entering pu­
Valerie Harper's triumphant 

Best Prime Time Soap. berty become an intern in a
return to television, was the

NBC's "Jesus of Nazareth" hospital? The show is as witty
year's Best New Comedy. 

wins the Best Mini-Series cat­as its premise is far-fetched. 
It is always interesting to 

egory. Franco Zefferelli's de­"Doogie" is a half an hour of .
watch programs develop over

piction of the life, death, and great fun.
the years. While most shows 

resurrection of Jesus is While on the subject of things 
deteriorate with age, once in a
Hollywood's best and most far-fetched, the Nothing's More 
while one improves. This year, 
-moving. The series is eight Bizarre Than Real Life award
"Growing Pains" bounced back 
hours of excellent viewing and belongs to "America's Funniest would still be around today. to NBC's credit the show 
to its old self and became the 

presents some of Hollywood's Home Videos." The proof is in Angela and Tony continue to drowned.
season's Most Improved 

biggest stars in brilliantly-acted the tapes. keep viewers laughing and 
Program. The show managed 
roles. Robert Powell's portrayal The Best Reason to Stay in hoping for a wedding. With May's ratings period just
to get away from the sappy, 

of Christ is outstanding. on Tuesdays is "The Wonder Pat Sajak receives the Just ahead, networks will surely 
soapy storylines of last season

More new programs than Years" while "The Bradys" is Spinning His Wheels award. present some of their best en­
and offered the zany, off-the­

ever before entered the ring the Best Reason to Go Out on Even the new post-apocolyptic tertainment of the year over the
wall scenarios that made it fa­

throughout the season. Some Fridays. The former continues set can't save "The Pat Sajak next few weeks. The Prime 
mous at its inception. 

succeeded; even more failed. to present humorous and Show." "Falcon Crest's" Angela Time Soaps will offer their an­
ABC has somewhat altered 

ABC's "Life Goes On," the touching stories while the latter Channing deserves the Is She in nual cliffhangers, and even
the Prime Time Soap genre by 

touching story of a family cop­surpasses the limits of absur­a Coma or Just Hibernating? some comedies will offer sus­
adding surrealism and a touch
ing with Down's Syndrome, dity and handles serious social award for spending the entire penseful endings. Special problems such as alcoholism season in a never-explained movies will grace the screen, with a laugh track. coma. Finally, the Big Tuna and a few new shows have yet 
"Roseanne" receives the See? award belongs to "Baywatch," to debut. This all goes to show Mom Really isn't so Bad After the show so desperate for that the season never really All award. After watching a ratings it sacrificed its best­ends; it's just "to be con-few moments of Roseanne looking lifeguard to Jaws. It's tinued ... " Barr's crude actions and ques­tionable motherly tactics, view­ers will really appreciate their mothers-and just in time for Mother's Day. 
Along the same lines, the Back to the Sewer From Which it Came award clearly belongs to "Beauty and the Beast." How the show lasted as long as it did is truly a mystery, but it's to CBS' credit that the show is now back in the TV septic tank. 
"Who's The Boss?" characters Angela and Tony are Dave and Maddie Done Right. Had "Moonlighting" followed "Boss'" prescription for the perfect would-be couple, the program 
Jim and Tammy Bakker make it to Prime Time 
LOS ANGELES (AP) Actor Kevin familiar with the ridicule and PTL ministry in May 1987. to the director, Karen Arthur," with mascara running down Spacey says care was taken to criticism. Once you get past the NBC paid the Bakkers for the he said. "When it was offered to her face. It may have happened see that the story of Jim and fact that I don't really look like rights to their story, but said it me, I had the same reaction as in real life, but not to the extent Tammy Bakker in NBC's "Fall Jim Bakker, you get into their did not give them any control other people. They laughed and of all the ridicule and gags." 
life and problems as a married over the story. said, 'Another trashy TV movie The only concessions to mak­
From Grace" didn't lapse into 
couple. We never got into a Bakker currently is serving a rehashing headlines.' Karen ing Spacey look like Bakkercaricature. 
cartoon. No one wanted to 45-year prison sentence for showed me that it was going to were a hairpiece and a dental make this a joke. I tried to play bilking money out of his follow­be much more complex than appliance to change the shape 
"You have to play a real per­
him as a man, not so much an ers to support his lavish the headlines. of his mouth. 
son," said Spacey, who stars as 
imitation as a suggestion." lifestyle. "When Bakker first came to The movie, written by Ken the convicted television evange­notice, he was a beaten man. Trevey, also stars Beth Grant aslist in the Sunday movie. 
The movie tells the personal Spacey, perhaps best known He was clawing at air. I think Tammy's confidant, Richard Bernadette Peters co-stars as 
story behind the rise and fall of for his role as Mel Proffit on that's why people had a pa­Herd as Bakker assistant Bakker's wife, Tammy. 
Bakker's empire, built upon his CBS' "Wiseguy," turned down thetic view of him. We look at Richard Dortch, and Richard success as a television minister. the role when it first was of­him when he was at the peak of Paul as the Rev. Jerry Falwell.
"You have to have a respect 
It begins in 1980 with his fered. his career and energy. We also Jean Kasem makes a cameofor that human being, regard­dream of Heritage Village and "I was reluctant to do it, but stay away from the caricature appearance as a real estateless of what's happened to ends with his ouster from the changed my mind after talking of Tammy as a crying woman saleswoman.
him," Spacey said. "We're all 




The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts clas~ifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint _Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is _3 p.m. All class1f1eds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, 1ncludmg spaces.
Classifieds 
2 BDRM, 2 BATH HOME ON N.D. SUMMER IS A GREAT TIME FOR Take advantage of your student 
AVE.2 BLKS TO CAMPUS.272-Grad Tix = Big $$ THE BEACH, CHICAGO, 
L-_No_r_lc_es___,l IL...._w_100_E_o___.. 
discount on an IBM PS/2 BEFORE 6306 Call Steve@ 287-2105 CONCERTS AND ART FAIRS. 

you graduate and spring into

-----------------------------------ATTRACTIVE BACHELOR,
EXPERT TYPING savings.
NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE SUMMER RENTAL. House or Yipesl My ultra-rich grandma MICHIGAN CITY BUSINESS 
$3/PG JUST DO IT!
any weekend-ext 1938 Rooms. Near campus.272-6306 needs a ticket for graduation or . PROFESSIONAL WANTS TO 
291·3829 Call an IBM student rep today!
she'll beat me into submission w1th MEET INTELLIGENT AND 237-3680, -3790, -3794 
BOXES TO SHIP HOME FOR 2 BDRMS, TURTLE CR., SUBLET. her cane. I will give you CASH ATTRACTIVE NOTRE DAME OR UPS ON CAMPUS 
YOU. 273-0601. today tor your ticket. CALL X4238 ST. MARY'S CO-ED OR GRAD ADOPTION. We are a childless,UPS ON CAMPUS DAILY and name your price. STUDENT WHO LIKES TO HAVE 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER educated, secure, happily married, 
NEAR NO: Clean and comfortable FUN. I'M WHITE, 33 YEARS OLD 
239·6174 · LAFORTUNE white Christian couple. Give your 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER turn. apts: 755 South Bend ············ AND 5'10, 185 LBS. SEND NOTE, baby a fantastic future. Let usLAFORTUNE BASEMENT Ave'efficiency-$225;'1 bdrm-$265 Attention please. PHOTO AND PHONE TO: 
WE TAPEI WE LABELl WE SHIP! adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­
239-6714 dep.,reterences 616-483-9572 1need two grad tix bad J.GRAHAM 
$100 FREE INSURANCE 974-8227.
2 DEVONSHIRE CT. WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP! Party Off Campus bucks tor them. MICHIGAN CITY, IN 46360 honest, I am willing to pay big 
Discounts Available SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US Ill 
Furn. 4 bdrm. Sand :!?.~~~.~~~~.~reg at 3114 Mail Boxes Etc. 

Discounts available V-ball court, washer/ Jack Devereaux is minellll!lll 
WORDPROCESSING We're ON CAMPUS 5/5 to 5112,
dryer, safe. Bruce : 

272-1837 In La Fortune (Dooley Room)! 
10 Speed bike.272-6306 234-3831 or 288-5653 KICK BUTT ON THE CPA UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 
JOE DIMARIA!! 

NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP$ 277-6245 MOVING TO CINCINNATI? CALL #2059-JOHN Good luck Joe, I'll miss you very$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! 
much. See you on Friday.

PANDORA'S BOOKS PETE'S BREWING COMPANY 
I need a roommate for Love, Kelley Corner of NO ave and Howard the summer to share a Two Bedr Condo 2Baths, Lg WANTED-GRADUATION
233-2342 LEADING CALIFORNIA BASED 
nice apt. in the Clifton rooms,pool,great for Grads TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800­SPECIALTY BREWER NOW area. 232-3972. "ROGER SIERRA HOTEL, 
888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK 
ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS (Female, please) FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT HEADING CHANGE 
HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS FOR MIDWEST REGION 
Castle Point Studio ZERO-TWO-NINER TO 
AFTER 5 616-342-0729. 
SUMMER? Jet there from MANAGER. SALARY 22-25K. 
HEIDI X2658 for summer rent;fully ZERO-TREE-ZERO. YOU ARE ON 
Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for BONUS, CAR, BENEFITS, ETC.
furnished 277-8379 COURSE ON GLIDE PATH. 
$$$ I NEED GRAD TIX $$$ 
no more than $229, or from the RESPONSIBLE FOR MIDWEST
IT GETS BETTER FROM HERE, East Coast for no more than $160 STU REPORTER WANTED NEXT 
Call BRAD @ 271-0758 SALES AND MARKETING 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD OVER." 
with AIRHITCH (R) (as reported in FALL Need knowledgable ND fan PROGRAMS. BEVERAGE/SALES
SAFE AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF NY Times. Let's Gol & Consumer to file daily sports update-$$. EXPERIENCE PREFERRED. CALL 
NO 2773097 I need graduation tickets for huge HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
Reports.) For info: AIRHITCH (R) Journalism exp a plus. 312-248-MARK BOZZINI (415) 328-7383.
LOVE,family. Please call Jeanne at 2600. 

212-864-2000. 5148 
AVAILABLE JUNE OR AUGUST, 4 MOM, DAD, 
Call SAFEWALK for an escort

BEDROOM HOUSE, NEED 2 GRAD. TICKETS & 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL anywhere on campus.
COMPLETELY FURNISHED. DOCMARROC.
CALL CHRIS 

MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Looking tor a triple loft, 'U' shaped, 7:30pm-1:30am Sun-Th 
SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234­
289-9710 $$$ 

to fit a room of a two-room triple. 7:30 pm-2:00am Fri-Sat
9364. NJCLUBLUGGAGETRUCK SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH USI Call X4067 or X4081 NJ CLUB LUGGAGE TRUCK Summer Vacation! 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? INFO COMING SOONIIII!II 
UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. Patties is now hiring for the 
2-BDR. APT. AVAILABLE FOR GAADUA TION TIXS, I NEED CALL LEE (X3883) WITH 
On S.R. 23, just past Ironwood. summer. Flexible Hours Anyone in need of a roommate
SUBLEASING. CALL NOW!!! 284-QUESTIONS
THEM! BIG BUCKS I CALL
277-6245 Day and Night Our work schedule in Chicago for the summer
4070. MELEAH AT X4229 call Bridget x 2770is perfect for students. Apply in 
TB-person. SINGLE STUDIO APT. AT "There's a very special garden 3602 Grape Rd. 
SENIORSTURTLE CREEK FOR SUMMER. Where the flowers of friendship 

HELP! 
SENIORS

\ LOST/FOUND 
Outpost Center 
UTILITIES INCLUDED. 284-5475 I DESPERATELY NEED 1 OR 2 grow. 
SENIORSLEAVE MESSAGE. It's nurtured by the kindness 

GRADUATION TICKETS. WILLEarn $300 to $500 per week And concern that good friends LOST AT SENIOR FORMAL: faux PAY CASH. MICHELLE 2677 
reading books at home. Call615-Are you planning on volunteering
show... 473-7440 Ext. B340
pearl bracelet, 3 strands thick ...it 
next year?belonged to my Grandmother and NEED 2 GRAD TIX ! ! 
SUBLET a TURTLE CREEK It's a place of peace and beauty 
TOWNHOUSE/FULLY Where bright new dreams can ALASKA SUMMER 
has GREAT sentimental value. ENTER LOTTERY 4 ME I ! 
Please sign up at the Senior PLEASE CALL LAURA #2533 CALL JIM X1415
FURNISHED start-...
Class Office in Lafortune or at theEMPLOYMENT -fisheries. 

CALL KEVIN x1636 It's friendship's lovely garden $5,000+/monthl Over 8,000 
C.S.C. to participate in the

And it blossoms in the heart." openings. Free transportation! 
ceremony during graduation LOST: Set of keys on Mod 
SUBLETTING TURTLE CREEK R. 
weekend.

Room & Board! No experience 
TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, necessary. MALE or FEMALE.
Quad by PW on Wed. afternoon. PERSONALS I 
CALL MICHELE AT x4544 or john paul grieco Send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box
Call Dan x1004 DEADLINE IS MAY 1.
SARAH AT x4068. I LOVE YOU 84008, Seattle, WA 98124­
-jill Satisfaction Guaranteed. 
spunk lords rule 

PROFESSIONAL COUPLE LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. 
DESIRES TO ADOPT BABY. WILL ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. FOR SALE STAAT YOUR NEW CAREER 

KEEP YOU INFORMED OF THE REWARD. SEAN 2073 WITH A NEW CARl 
ATTENTION-HIRING! 
hi agGovernment jobs -your area. 
CHILD'S DEVELOPMENT IF YOU 

We have special financing for 
DESIRE. EXPENSES PAID. CALL LOST: Black and gold Seiko employed graduates. 
$17,840-$69,485. Callt-602-ENTIRE ROOM­
SENIORS 838-8885. EXT R-6262. EVERYTHING MUST GO II 
0-317-298-8548 OR ATTORNEY dress watch on the second Call: Gary Erb 
Can you afford to lose $1 ,000? 
0-317-882-9799GIANT tOFT

floor of the library. Please At: Gates Toyota 

(ret#89-129). call Pat x24 79 or give to 237-4999
ATTENTION: EASY WORK CUSHION/CHAIR/COUCH-MUST 
EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble SEE I ONE OF A KIND. CALL 3114 library security at the front 
Matthew Ashford is hotllll desk. GOING HOME !?I?!? 
products at home. Details. (1) 602-ANDY OR GREG. 
838-8885 Ext. W-6262. 
For great rental van rates call Tim 
Joe DiMaria will pass two parts of at x1143 ASAP. 
the CPA and get at least a 50 l'rn lost! !I Please help me, my 
ATTENTION : EARN MONEY ...... FOR SALE""""" 
percent on the other two parts. name IS Sundance. I'm a white 6" 
WATCHING TV! $32,000/year 
--GOD Teddy Bear with black eyes and My Sweet Wesley, 
income potential. Details. (1) 602-A couch with a pull out bed 
838-8885. Ext. TV-6262. 
grey suede feet bottoms. Lost 4-8-There's a shortage of perfect buns 
Best Offer takes couch!!ll!! 
90 in red east parking lot at ND. in this world. It's good to know hi linda
13uy any 12'

My family misses me very much. there are exceptions. 
you're my favorite SMCerCall Beth, Sara or Natasha at

My safe return would be greatly FOR RENT Love, Buttercup 
X2722 Itafian Su6 wi.tli
apprec1ated. Reward!! Call collect, Tom or Gloria at 317-247-1096 BASS PLAYER 
An-Tostal1990 and One Litre Somebody should have stopped ill LOST: Brown leather jacket. Furniture:Game Table,Sm Ref., 
LEAD SINGER 6 b<jr. 2 baths, Secure house. 

Sofa,etc. Great for house or
0/C at 524 Cresent Street. Needed tor established campus Soft 1JrinK_
1021 DeMaude. $550 mo. Call
Friday 4/20. Reward if found. dorm. 232-3972 band-mostly classic rock­Paul Stephan
234 6688 or 234 5041 .
Mike x4280. experience and equipment antfreceive I still want your body II For sale-Macintosh 128k 
required-to begin playing Fall '90 
NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable Complete package: printer, 
call Rich x1475 

LOST-RAY BAN SUNGLASSES· turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., second disk drive, mouse, Petex1429 Way to go Gauchos: 
$1.00 off

efficiency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep..
·Black wire-rims, left on a PA keyboard, software, only $785. Pete DiGiovanni speaker at Earthday during the Dave Bose
references. 233-9428, after 6 p.m. 616-483-9572.
mind-shattering mega-jam of ca[[ Tom O'Connell 
LET US HELP YOU! 

Superfreak. Call Mike x1464. FLIGHT to SALT LAKE CITY, one­Mike Toner 
SHIPPING SERVICES DAILY 3 BEDROOM-GARAGE way, leaving South Bend May 11, 
$100 FREE INSURANCE Rob Vazquez LOST: A Canon Sprint camera 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS female only. CHEAP!!! 277-3324 SWEET161
$525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT 
at Senior Formal. Please call Call Karin at 2565. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER We are proud of you(again)l 232-3616.
Kay at 277·8813. Thanks I LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE 
AMSTRAD LAPTOP W/ :free 'Defivery 
The bridge is crossed, so stand PLEASE II I LOST MY Turtle Creek Apt EXTERNAL MONITER. 2 WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP! and watch it burn, 
COMPUTER furnished/summer DRIVES.MUST SELL SOON coupon ezyires: we've passed The Point of No 
Matt x3549
DISKS · YES WITH AL'L MY Discounts available Return. PAPERS -IN LAFORTUNE LAB ONE LOFT: ALMOST NEW. MUST 5-6-90
..______________... 
OR SOMEWHERE IN THE PICK UP BY 5/11. GOOD PRICE. Louii-SUBLETTING TURTLE CREEK 
HUDDLE. RON #3107 Give the frog back ANNA BUNGER 
TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, 
THEY WERE IN A RED CASE GOOD LUCK ON YOUR FINALS
FURNISHED. TOM 273-0302
HOLDING 5 DISKS, SOME WITH COMPUTER FOR SALE Sue Bee Sue LOVE ,
------------·----------------------AMSTRAD (IBM compatible) 
THE NAME "MOON." I REALLY 
Happy 19th B-Day CLANCY REALLY NEED THESEIIIIF lncludes:Color monitor,modem 
New 2 Bdrrn., 2 Bath Condo. 
YOU ARE THE BEST! 

'*MAKE EVERY DAY'* 
Available for 1990-1991. and EPSON printer; YOU'VE PICKED UP THE WRONG 
Luv, Kaarepoo CASE, OR WHATEVER, PLEASE Walk to campus. Call ALL FOR $485. Call Panos at 
*EARTH DAY* 
Ps I'm taking your picture! GREAT JOB GAUCHOS I Michelle at x4981. 
SUMMER CAMPAIGNS 
CALL MONICA AT 288-4335 237-0027 

We'll watch you in the finals next OR LEAVE IT AT THE 
yearII LAFORTUNE LAB. THANK 
FOR THE 

To LARRY PLAYFORD and Love,
ENVIRONMENT 
YOU II II 
JIM FLEMING-Good Luck on The Farley Four 
EAR1~ $2500-$3500
FOR RENT the CPA Exam in Indy!
Furnished apt-like rooms, air, 
Help pass the Clean Air 
Be prepared to celebrate when kitchen, 5 mins, N. campusLOST-BLACK StOOEF KODAK 

TICKETS 
you get back I It's almost overl 

Act, tighten pesticide 
272-0615CAMERA ON SATURDAY AT Love,

controls & promote
HOGSTOCK. CALL KATH ANNE 
Jackie 

283-4044. FREE, almost! Furnished houses I NEED GRAD TIX !comprehensive recycling 
(2) on N.D. Ave., $115 mo. per will pay BIG $$$ 
Available In 18 states & 
person tor entire summer, OR flat 
I lost my SEIKO wristwatch eves 283-3536 Happy 19th 
D.C.

$190 pp tor summer session; plus with black wristband. Maybe Anne-Marie Schommer 
Call Kate toll-free: 
electric. DEPOSIT. REFERENCES. 
AMERICAN

on North Quad. If found "Only the Good Die Young" 259-7801 days, 255-5852 
1-800-75-EARTH 
·.

please call Diana x4003 NEED GRAD TICKET CALL Love, Your B.J. Queenevenings. 
~~CANCER
CHUCK X 3302 Stephanie Vid-a-SMC chick is 21! 

LOST: dropped a single key 
7 ~SOCIETY.

SUBLET FOR SUMMER Go for shotith 14ith. Happy (429)somewhere near St. Mary's 2-bdr apt. partially furnished birthday! Going to VIRGINIA after finals? 
Lake or Holy Cross last week. I NEED GRADUATION TICKETSIII 
Turtle Creek-price negotiable The Bam Babes Need a rider? Call Christine at 
PLEASE call x4897 if you picked it please call Kathy at 277-8813 
.. .................._......
call Anne x4267. 284-4345.
up. 


MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division East Division 
w L Pet GB w L Pet GB Milwaukee 11 6 .647 Pittsburgh 14 6 .700 Boston 10 8 .556 11/2 Philadelphia 1 0 8 .556 3 Toronto 11 9 .550 11/2 Montreal 10 8 .556 3 Cleveland 9 8 .529 2 NewYorl< 9 9 .500 4 New Vorl< 7 9 .438 31/2 St. Louis 9 11 .450 5 Baltimore 8 11 .421 4 Chicago 8 11 .421 51/2 DetrOit 8 11 .421 4 West Division West Division W L Pet GB 
w L Pet GB Cincinnati 12 3 .800 Oakland 13 5 .722 Los Angeles 11 9 .550 3 1/2 Chicago 9 6 .600 2 112 San Diego 9 10 .474 5 Texas 11 8 .579 21/2 Houston 8 1 0 .444 5 1/2 California 8 10 .444 5 San Francisco 7 12 .368 7 Seattle 8 11 .421 5112 Atlanta 3 13 .188 91/2 Minnesota 7 12 .368 6112 z-denotes first game was a win Kansas City 6 12 .333 7 
AMERICAN LEAGUE National League Saturday's Games. Saturday's Games Boston 12. Oakland 3 Cincinnati 6, Montreal 4 New York 3, California 2 St. Louis 5, San Francisco 0 Cleveland 3, Minnesota 0 Philadelphia 2, Atlanta 1 Texas 9, Kansas City 2 Houston 8, New Vorl< 4 Seattle 4, Baltimore 3 Los Angeles 5, Chicago 4 Detroit 13, Milwaukee 5 Pittsburgh 4, San Diego 3 Chicago 5, Toronto 4 Sunday's Games Sunday's Games Atlanta 3, Philadelphia 1 Oakland 1 . Boston 0 Montreal 6, Cincinnati 3 California 4, New Vorl< 3 Houston 2, New York 1, 10 innings Cleveland 6, Minnesota 4 San Francisco 9, St. Louis 7 Milwaukee 6, Detroit 1 Pittsburgh 10, San Diego 1 Baltimore 5, Seattle 4 Chicago 4, Los Angeles 0 Chicago 10, Toronto 3 
Monday's Games Kansas City 5, Texas 2 Philadelphia (Howell 2-1) at Cincinnati (Rijo 0-1 ),Monday's Games Houston (Deshaies 1-0) at Montreal (De.Martinez 2-0), Oakland (Welch 2-1) at New York (Parker 0-0), New Vorl< (Cone 0-1) at Atlanta (Smaltz 0-2), . 

California (McCaskill 2-0) at Banimore (Milacki 

Seattle (Holman 3-1) at Boston (Boddicker 1-3), Toronto (Stottlemyre 2-2) at Cleveland (Bearse 0-1), Milwaukee (Knudson 1-0) at Detroit (Robinson 1-1), Texas (Bohanon 00) at Ch1cago (McDowell 1-1), Tuesday's Games Only games scheduled New Vorl< at Atlanta, 5:40p.m.
Tuesday's Games Philadelphia at Cincinnati, 7:35 p.m.
Oakland at New York, 7:30 p.m. 
Houston at Montreal, 7:35p.m. 

California at Bahimore, 7:35p.m. 
St. Louis at San Diego, 10:05 p.m.

Seattle at Boston, 7:35 p.m. 
Pittsburgh at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m.

Toronto at Cleveland. 7:35p.m. 
Chicago at San Francisco. 10:35 p.m.

Minnesota at Detroij, 7:35p.m. 
Texas at Chicago, 8:05p.m. 
Milwaukee at Kansas City, 8:35 p.m. 
RESULTS SPORTS CALENDAR 
Lacrosse Monday, April 30 Notre 14, OSU 11 No sports scheduled 

Men's Tennis Tuesday, May 1Notre Dame 6, Drake 3 Softball vs.DePaul (2) 4 p.m.

Notre Dame 9, Marquette 0 Men's Tenms at Kalamazoo 3 p.m. 
Women's Tennis Wednesday, May 2 Notre Dame 9 Butler 0 Baseball vs. Valparaiso (2) 2 p.m. 

Lacrosse vs.Michigan St. 

Softball Notre Dame 1, St. Mary's 0 Thursday, May 3 Notre Dame 5, Marquette 2 Softball vs. Valparaiso (2) 4 p.m.
Notre Dame 9. Marquette 2 Friday, May 4 Football Softball vs. Illinois-Chicago (2) 4 p.m.
Gold 24, Blue 1 0 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
San Francisco (Burkett 0-0) at Los Angeles (Wetteland 1~-_:;1)~·------------------------------------::-::--:::-:-=-:::-:-------------, 
All T1mes EDT FIRST ROUND (Best-of-5) Thursday, April 26 Philadelphia 111, Cleveland 106 Detroit 104, Indiana 92 Boston 116, New York 105 San Antonio 119, Denver 103 Portland 1 09, Dallas 1 02 Friday, April 27 Chicago 111 , Milwaukee 97 Utah 113, Phoenix 96 Los Angeles Lakers 101, Houston 89 Saturday, April 28 Boston 157, New York 128. Boston leads series 2-0 Detroit 100, Indiana 87, Detroit leads series 2-0 San Antonio 129, Denver 120. San Antonio leads series 2-0 Portland 114, Dallas 107, Portland leads series 2-0 Sunday, April 29 Chicago 109, Milwaukee 102, Chicago leads series 2-0 Los Angeles Lakers 104, Houston 100, Los Angeles leads series 2-0 Philadelphia 1 07,' Cleveland 101, Philadelphia leads series 2-0 
Phoenix 105, Utah 87. series tied 1-1 
Monday, April 30 No games scheduled Tuesday, May 1 Philadelphia at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Chicago at Milwaukee, 8 p.m. Detroit at Indiana, 8:30 p.m. Los Angeles Lakers at Houston, 8:30 p.m. Portland at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. San Antonio at Denver, 10:30 p.m. Wednesday, May 2 
Boston at New York, 8 p.m. Utah at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m. Thursday, May 3 
Chicago at Milwaukee, 8 p.m., if necessary Los Angeles Lakers at Houston, 8 p.m., if necessary Philadelphia at Cleveland, 8 p.m .. if necessary Portland at Dallas, 8 p.m., if necessary San Antonio at Denver, TBA, if necessary Friday, May 4 Boston at New York, 8 p.m., if necessary Detroit at Indiana, 8 p.m., if necessary Utah at Phoenix, TBA Saturday, May 5 Cleveland at Philadelphia, TBA, if necessary Dallas at Portland, TBA, if necessary Denver at San Antonio, TBA, if necessary Milwaukee at Chicago, TBA, if necessary 
NBA BOXES 

HOUSTON (1 00) B.Johnson 5-15 6-6 16, Thorpe 6-10 2-4 
14. Olajuwon 4-15 3-3 11, Floyd 10-19 7-7 27, Maxwell 1 1-25 1-3 24, Smith 2-2 0-0 4, McCormick 0-0 0-0 0, Wiggins 2-5 0-0 4. Totals 40-91 19-23 1oo. LA LAKERS (104) 
Green 3-7 4-4 10, Worthy 12-20 7-8 32, Thompson 2-7 0-3 4, E.Johnson 7-16 2-3 17, Scott 6-11 2-2 17, Divac 3-4 6-6 12, Cooper 1-5 0-0 2, Woolridge 3-7 4-4 10.Totals 37-77 25-30 104. 
CLEVELAND (101) 

Bennett 10-13 2-2 22, Nance 2-6 1-2 5, Daugherty 7-13 7-8 21, Ehlo 3-12 2-2 8, Price 9-15 7-7 27, Williams 7-14 4-6 18, Kerr 0-6 0-0 0, Mokeski 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 38-79 23-27 101. PHILADELPHIA (107) 
Barkley 13-19 5-1 1 32, Mahorn 3-6 2-3 8, Gmmski 8-13 2-2 18, Dawkms 8-14 2-2 18, Hawkins 8-18 5-5 21, Anderson 4-9 2-2 10, Brooks 0-2 0-0 0, Thornton 0-0 0-0 O.Totals 44-81 18-25 107. 
TRANSACTIONS 

BASEBALL American League BOSTON RED SOX-Placed John Dopson. pitcher, and Billy Jo Robidoux, first baseman, on the 15-day disabled list. Activated Wes Gardner, pitcher, from the 15-day disabled list. Purchased the contract of John Trautwem, pitcher, from Pawtucket of the International League. CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Traded Claudell Washington, outfielder, and Rich Monteleone, pitcher, to the New York Yankees for Luis Polonia, outfielder. CLEVELAND INDIANS-Called up JeH Shaw, pitcher, from Colorado Springs of the Pacific Coast League. Optioned AI Nipper and Rod Nichols, pitchers, to Colorado Springs. DETROIT TIGERS-Fired John Wockenfuss, manager of Toledo of the International League. Named Tom Gamboa manager of Toledo. KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Placed Frank White, second baseman, on the 15-day disabled list. Recalled Terry Shumpert, second baseman, from Omaha of the American Association. 
National League ATLANTA BRAVES-Place Mike Stanton, pitcher, on the 1 5-day d1sabled list. HOUSTON ASTROS-Traded Charley Kerteld, pitcher, to the Atlanta Braves for Kev1n Dean, outfielder, and a player to be named later. PITISBURGH PIRATES-Sent Tom Prince, catcher, and M1ke Roesler, pitcher. to Buffalo of the Amencan Association. ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-OptiOned Ken Hill, pitcher, to Louisville of the American Association. SAN DIEGO PADRES-Sent Rob Nelson, first baseman, and Rafael Valdez, pitcher. to Las Vegas of the Pacific Coast League SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Announced the retirement of Dan QUisenberry, pitcher. 
FOOTBALL National Football League 

MIAMI DOLPHINS-Signed Darryl Davis. linebacker; Dave Pacitti, offensive tackle; Sean Redman, running back; Brian Lowe, placekicker; and Vince Maza. punter 
Attention Sophomores 
Place your ring order before you leave for SUMMER VACATION. This will assure you of having it when you return to school in the fall. 
HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M.. .• 
Monday -Friday 
IN THE OFRCE ON THE FIRST FLOL_ HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 



EUROPE! 
"WITH SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 
Seven Seas Travel, your local European travel experts, can help you with any travel plans you may need to experience Europe this Spring and Sum­mer. We know Europe well ... and can help you with your travel plans. regardless of your travel budget. 
EUROPE! 

with Seven Seas Travel Seven Seas Travel Is Your Local Europe Travel Specialist 
*Lowest Airfares To Europe *Eurail Passes 
*Assistance With Tour Planning 
For Your Trip To Europe: 
SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 
525 North Michi an St. Soulh Bend IN 46601 Tel: 219-232-7995 



----~----~~---------~~r-~-~-­
plays later, Craig Hentrich con­stalled at the Blue two-yard yard field goal to put the Gold On the same drive, inside verted a 32-yard field goal to line when defensive tackle Marc team on top, 12-3. linebacker Michael
Gold 
put the Blue squad on the deManigold forced a fumble by The next scoring drive was Stonebreaker made three tack­continued from page 20 scoreboard. Levens, recovered by all Mirer. Faced with a 3rd­les in four plays and dropped The Gold team took posses­cornerback Jerry Bodine. and-11 at his own 19, the fullback Hod Culver for a three­Sexton's punt was blocked by sion at its own 20 after Mirer immediately hit Ismail sophomore-to-be rolled right yard loss. Stonebreaker. who cornerback Todd Lyght, the Hentrich's kickoff sailed into for a 24-yard gain on the first and hit Jarrell for 20 yards and led the Gold team with six tack­first of three blocked punts in the endzone for a touchback. play of the next possession. a first down. He then passed les (five unassisted), earned thn game. Outside linebacker Mirer, now playing However, a face mask penalty for three consecutive first Defensive MVP honors for the 
Andre Jones recovered the ball quarterback for the Gold, led and an Eric Simien sack put the downs, hitting split-end game. 
at the Gold 17-yard line. Four an 18-play, 78-yard drive which Blue squad into a punting sit­William Pollard for 11 yards, "It was nice to see Michael uation. Poorman batted down Martin Scruggs for 15 and Stonebreaker play so well in his Hentrich's punt and the ball fullback Kenny Spears for 12. first time back in front of a bounced out of the endzone for Spears powered into the crowd," Holtz said. "If we
Happy Birthday 
a safety. Cornerback Hod Smith endzone from eight yards out played today, he would start at later blocked another Hentrich to give the Gold team a com­inside linebacker with Donn
"Hank the Tank" 
punt, resulting in another manding 19-3 lead. Grimm and Demetrius safety. The Blue team put together DuBose." 
"If there's one thing we will its most impressive drive of the Hackett, who converted two take away from this game," day with just under eight min­of three field goal attempts in said Holtz, "it will be the im­utes remaining in the third the game, made good from 23 portance of the kicking game quarter, driving 80 yards on 13 yards out in the fourth quarter and how quickly it can turn a plays with tailback Hicky for the final 24-10 margin. game around." Watters going the final two NOTES:Holtz said after the 

yards for the touchdown. Mirer game that Watters will be Hentrich's ensuing free kick passed for four of the six first moved back to tailback after rolled out of bounds for a live­downs on the drive, including a spending considerable time at 
yard penalty. Jarrell returned 17 -yard bullet to Ismail on a split end this spring...Jarrell his next kick 28 yards to the 3rd-and-11 play. Ismail caught picked up 103 yards on three Blue 40 yard-line. Four plays seven passes for 142 yards in kickoff returns, a 34-yard 
later, Billy Hackett hit a 53-the game. average. secutive Most Valuable Player
Who finished second when award.
UCLA put together that
Repeat 
The final play had all themiraculous string of NCAA
n•n•n•n•n•n•n•n•n•n•L continued from page 20 titles in the late 1960s and elements of the sun rising in the East. Scott went one-on­
THE CONGREG AITION OF I The material difference be-early 1970s? 
one, straight up against the
For the second straight
11 i ~w~~~[~t~r:ng~~c~~~ P~~;:e~ two best jumpers in the tour­
spring, Adworks faltered when ney-Tony Hice and Derrick
HOLV CROSS 
=difference is that they don't it mattered most. The runners­
Johnson-and there was never
1! I remember who finished second up streaked to an early lead be­
a doubt. They eould have: in these tourneys or any others fore Joe Scott got his wake-up handed out the trophies with
1 for that matter. call. 
the ball still in the air. 
-Who finished second when Scott seemed to be thinking
Through vision, work and prayer Holy Cross 
Last spring, Adworks com­i Jack Nicklaus won the Masters of winning court cases instead pared Malicious to the Boston _ in 1986? Who finished second of titles when he missed his
priests and brothers have ~ven lile to the 
Celtics. Like the Celtics,1 -when Greg LeMond won the first five shots. Thirteen points Malicious is aging, evidenced byUniversity of Notre Dame, enriching our world _ Tour de France last summer? later Scott had his second con-the graying Jim Flynn and the
with timeless values, caring service. I -
tired, battle-scarred VanDyke.
-Sometimes, older is better. I -This year wasn't so much about good against evil like in 
the past. This was about over­achieving law students trying
Holy Cross also serves avariety of ministries: i 
to prove that 1989 was no fluke against raw talent.
schools, parishes, foreign missions, service to i 
-
This was supposed to be Adworks' year, the final hurrah for Tony Hice, Kevin. Keyes, Jim 
the poor and others... i 
Dolan and Cedric Figaro. But
For information: ~ 
someone let Scott write the
-

ending. 
The team rose above the tal­ent on Sunday afternoon. Play 
Fr. fohn Conley, CSC ~ 
-
Vocation Director I 
10 games and each team would
-
Box 541 _ 
probably win five. 
I-Notre Dame, IN 465561 
Malicious Prostitution won
I -(219} 239-6385 = 
the one that counted . And that's the one people will 
....... ........................:.~•~r:1 
L.___________________J 
remember. 
Monday, April 30, 1990 
The Observer I Kevin Weise Bob Dahl hits freshman quarterback Jake Kelchner during the first quarter of the Blue-Gold game, breaking Kelchner's collarbone. 
The Observer page 15 
Linn throws perfect game vs. SMC 

By MICHAEL MALODY 
Sports Writer 
Behind inspiring perform­ances by the pitching staff that allowed only 10 hits and four runs in three games this past weekend, the Irish softball team defeated the Belles of Saint Mary's 1-0 in a rain­shortened game on Saturday and swept a doubleheader from Marquette 5-2 and 9-2 on Sunday, improving its record to 29-13 on the season. 
Pitcher Missy Linn turned in the strongest performance for the Irish in the 1-0 victory over the Belles. The sophomore all­MCC athlete was ahead of all Saint Mary's batters, pitching the first perfect game of her career and improving her season record to 12-6. 
Linn, besides rendering no hits, runs, or walks, allowed only two balls out of the infield and struck out six before the game was called due to rain in the bottom of the fifth. "The team was psyched coming into the game, and they played amazing behind me," Linn remarked. "I feel good about my performance, but I couldn't have done it without the team." 
The Irish scored its lone run in the bottom of the first when shortstop and leadoff hitter Ruth Kmak crossed the plate 
MlssyUnn on a passed ball. Beyond that the Irish offense was neutralized by an inspired Belle defense and strong pitching by Stephanie Kisscorni, who allowed only four Irish hits while walking three and striking out three. 
The first game of the Sunday doubleheader against Marquette featured pitcher Staci Alford. The freshman improved her season record to 14-6 by allowing only four hits and two runs, registering 12 strikeouts in a game thoroughly dominated by the Irish. 
The Irish jumped on the Warriors early. After the first three batters in the lineup­Ruth Kmak, Laurie Sommerlad, and Rachel Crossen-reached base, the team scored four runs, all in the bottom of the first. 
Offensively, third baseman Sheri Quinn provided most of the firepower for the Irish. The freshman went 2 for 4 for the game, with two RBI, one coming off a home run in the fifth. 
Megan Fay, Amy Folsom, and Casey McMurray also batted in runs for the Irish in the contest. 
In the second game of the doubleheader, pitcher Ronny Alvarez won in convincing fashion with a 9-2 victory. To the delight of Head Coach Brian Boulac, the freshman allowed only two runs on six hits while striking out six, proving to be another mainstay in the bullpen. 
The Irish were behind in the contest until Marquette pitcher Lea Fischer was forced out of the game after colliding with Irish designated hitter Hache! Crossen in the third inning. After a pitching switch, the Irish exploded for three runs to break the game open. 
Third baseman Sheri Quinn continued to be strong on the day, belting in two HBI, bringing her total on the day to four. Junior first baseman Kathryn Vernetti and freshman center fielder Lisa Miller also notched two HBI apiece. 
-~--~~---~---~---­
page 16 The Observer 
Division I tennis seasons at close 
Wins over Drake, Marquette help men's NCAA chances 

By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
It's over. Or is it? 

These are the two thoughts on every Notre Dame tennis player's mind. Now that the Irish have officially closed out their Division I season with ex­pected wins over Drake University and Marquette on Saturday at the Eck Pavilion all they can do is sit, wait and hope. The 23-4 Irish are hoping that the NCAA Selection Committee will extend their season with an invitation to the 1990 NCAA Team Champion­ships. 
"Its out of our hands now," said Head Coach Bob Bayliss. "There are two ways to get in the NCAA's, a regional or an at-large bid. Our number-one way to get in is if Northwestern loses this weekend to Ohio State or Indiana. If the selec­tion committee is objective, we should get in. If we don't get in regionally, we will get put in the at-large pot. The biggest indi­cator in this area is wins over ranked teams and we have wins over TCU and West Virginia, who will get in the tourna­ment." 
But before the nation's 17th­ranked team could concentrate on their NCAA hopes, they had to take on Drake and Marquette. In the Drake con­test, Notre Dame ensured the win in the singles portion of the contest and went on to a 6-3 win. Not only did the Drake matchup provided the 22nd win of the season, but Bayliss & Co. were playing in front of a na­tional audience. SportsChannel America set up shop this week­end at the Eck Pavilion to show the Notre Dame-Drake contest, shown on tape-delay. 
"It was a little bit hectic with SportsChannel there but it is important to get that expo­sure," said Bayliss. "In the Drake match, we played well. We dominated four of the six single positions. But we lost two of the three doubles after 

Tyler Musleh sets for a backhand return during the women's tennis 
and Louderback is hopeful team's 9-0 romp over the Butler Bulldogs on Saturday at Notre Dame. about Barton gaining a bid. If she is chosen she will begin play on May 14 at the University of 
HOLY CROSS PARISH Florida. 
1520 Vassar Avenue Louderback was pleased with 
South Bend, IN 46628 the season overall, and is look­
219233 2179

ing forward to next season. "There were a couple that we could have won," said the 
MALE GRADUATE HOUSING I $170 permo 
coach, "but there were also Furnished sleeping rooms. 
quite a few that we played well 
and put away in the singles 
Bed, dresser, desk, telephone hook-up, competition. Except for the 
eating & cooking areas, & laundry facilities provided. injuries, which hurt us some, 
9 month lease we did really well this year. 
"We've signed three players for next year that are all ranked in the top fifty nationally," he continued. "With those three coming in, and all the rest coming back, we should have a good team next year." 

··-------------------------------------MARIGOLD
~ 20% Discount 
MARKET
I TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
I 
-------------------------------------IPtAN A-lfMFoR 
• Eye Exams • Large Selection of Frames • All Types of Contacts 
~ YouR G-'RPVUAl10N 
~ 
-

= ~ = CEtEiSRATION 
Professional Vision ~
----.,.y-·­Dr. Ronald Snyder
1635 N. Ironwood 
PARTY PLATTERS
and Associates 

Hor<s D'oeuvRES BRVNtH ~ ll~NCH1EON 

CONTACT OUR CATERlNG DEPARTMENT LAST MINUTE PART'< PLATTERS AVAILABLE 
Women blank Butler 9-0, season campaign complete; 
The Observer I David Lee
Barton tries for individual NCAAs after one-month injury 
By BARBARA MORAN "We played pretty well," he Sports Writer continued. "We had won a three-set match with Bradshaw 
The Notre Dame women's and Pacella at number one tennis team ended its season doubles, but we won pretty victoriously, taking a solid 9-0 easily at the rest of the win over the Butler University matches." Bulldogs last Friday to finish The match marked the the year with a 17-8 record. return of Irish top seed Tracy 
The match was the last for Barton, who had been sidelined team seniors Alice Lohrer and with an elbow injury for a Resa Kelly, and Irish coach Jay month. Barton performed Louderback was pleased with admirably in her first match off both their and the whole team's the shelf, taking a 6-1, 6-0, performance. victory at number one singles. 
"She was happy to be able to 

"Both of them (the seniors) play," said Louderback. "With played pretty well," said the NCAA selection coming up, Louderback. "Alice won 6-1, 6-it was important for her to win 2, at number four singles, and easily. It will show that she's Res a won at number two feeling all right." doubles with Eniko Bende. Both Selection for the individual of them were happy to finish competition of the NCAA tour-the season off winning. nament will begin this week, the match was decided and that does concern me." 
In the second matchup of the day, Notre Dame extended its sixty-one year dominance of Marquette with a 9-0 win. Without the services of Notre Dame's No.1 and No, 2 singles players, Dave DiLucia and Walter Dolhare respectively, the Irish extended the winning streak to 43. 
Notes: On the recruiting scene, the Irish have signed four players for the 1991 sea­son. The best of the bunch seems to be Tommy North, a 6­7, 200 pound native of Sucassunaa, N.J. North pos­sesses a serve that has been clocked at 130 m.p.h. Regarded by the collegiate tennis com­munity as a potential All­American, North is the 22nd best collegiate recruit in this year's crop of players. The Irish have received commit­ments from two up-and-coming players in Todd Wilson and Ron Elizaga. Also, Notre Dame has signed Alan Lopez, the No. 1 juniors player in El Salvador. 

We need vou.
SEVEN TASTYWAYS 
ftAmericanHeart 
~Association

fr TO IMPROVEA 
. COLLEGE EDUCADON._tr 
-~~--.._ ...... 

Attention Freshmen. Sophomores and Juniors 
Mon. Thurs. 
Earn

It's a pizza lover's dream come true. Every 
r···················---, 
... ­

r--~--····-------------, day this week, you can get a spacial offer THICK THURSDAY
BEAT THE CLOCK 

from Domino's Pizza~ Whether it's free extra Present this coupon and receive Order 1 large original pizza with crust or a free small cheese pizza, there's 1 medium pizza smothered in dleese
1 toppir~Q between 4 and 7 PM more reasons to make this the week for a and pepperoni. end the lime on the clock is the 
whileyou
special treat from Domino's Pizza. So whyprice that you pay. 
PAN $6.00 ORIGINAL $5.00
not give us a call? In 30 minutes or less. 
Offer valid Monday's onlyl you'll see why this is the week you've been
Dll 
waiting for. OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 
learn.

mm. ::~:a1~:::::;:0:1 ~~. 
..,...,•....-c"*""'-onl'f'Hcii.....,""""""'OI....,oftot<,..ocn....,_, 
VMd •l*f~lftg...,.... only NCII...W woll'l '"' 01.... on.. Punt may-.c-,.,.,..... _..._~ ~-......... -.-.... c.--pep..... lb..._lfCIIIIIC... Detlwty_........ to_.. ... 
or.-.o Our.._.~ .......... 152111.00 Ourdf----~lo<'-'*"""'V Our_._.. c.roy .... '""" 120.00 Our oo-. .,, ,.. _.,,..., b' '­
CALL US! 

,.._.... 0,..~.~... -1/lbfem 
~'" o... a--·. Ptu•. ~ 1/sb.'Cm 
·----------------------· 271-0300 ·----------------------· 
Manpower ie looking for studentaintere.ted in
1835 South Bend Ave.
Tues. Fri. 
earning g,...t pay. We
r·····················-, r··-········-----------, 
offer flexible hours. And
TRIPLE TUESDAY DOUBLE DINNER DEAL 

valuab• training and 
busin-experience.

Present this coupon and receive Present this coupon and receive 2-12' 
3 small original cheese pizzas original pizzas with 2 toppings and 
Plue free u• of a

for $6.99. Additional toppings available 2 COKES for $11.49. at an additional dlarge. 
pereonel computer.

Offer valid Friday's onlyl Offer valid Tuesday's onlyl 
all 
DOMINO'S OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 

If you're • full-time
PIZZA 

Valld•~""''-onlyNcldlod...thlnJQII,.,...,....Pfoc:elmay•l'' 
c-pep................. ~~-......,ID-.... 
C_peyt. ......llal. ....... ....-.tlill O........,_lw..otHIIIM-1...
~::=~=:~=---~~· ~~-DELIVERS"
clr-.g Owr~~ .... ltWIUO.OO.Ourdr-.-... ~., ... 
student, Sophomore or
CINWifil 0..dr_e.T'J' .... .._I2000 Ouooo·-•-'*~M<"~»~..ab''-• .,..._,.. Cl9tt o..-·. P"un 1ooc 11sb/cm
....__ o....,.,.._., 1"\EA, Inc. 1/lblan • 
aboVII, with et least a B
FREE.

·----------------------· !5111 . . • 
aver•ge •nd •re computer familiar, 

~----------------------·
Weds. Sun. Sat. 
Manp.,_.. ntlede you u 
• COLLEGIATE REP to
r··················----,r----------------------, r··--------------------, 
promobl the ..... of th1 IBM Pereonel &yetem/2 
WILD WEDNESDAY DOUBLE FEATURE PARTY SPECIAL 
Present this coupon and receive Present this coupon end receive Present this coupon end receive 2·14' 1 small original pepperoni pizza 2 small original cheese pizzas original pizzas with 2 toppings and 
on cempue.

for $2.99. Additiorial fopplngs available for $5.29. 4 COKES for $12.99. at en additional dlarge. Offer valid Sunday's onlyl Offer valid Saturday's onlyl Offer valid Wednesday's onlyl 

Send reeumeto: LynM;te Lottie 
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/00 OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 
II. MI. 
Collegillte Rep 

......PIIl<-"*"'9-0I'It'f' Hcl.-.lod'*"".,.,Clllhel'll'l... ¥1111d.~ ................, ........ .......-...... ~~ ........•wn.t•apptoc:MI'e o.w...,._,lloooftMIO ..._. .... c...........,........_~.,.._.,-....................c....-....,. .._., 0.. ._. ............ c_.y ............ ~ Ow ..... ---,.....,... -.....,. 0... o.-ae•., .... 1'*' 12000 0uo or-. ... AOo penahtod lor •­......... o-. ........ c.-.y .... -...aaoo.a..------,..b'­
._..~...,..,. ..................................._.,. p,_......,_,_ .... ..., .............:.,_,_, 
Menpatr.JW Inc. 

--o-o..--.""-.-. ...__ o.... Oelloolnn""' lllc.
..,.._ 0 ...Clootwftl"l PuUI. Inc. 1/lblcm 1 /K)Icm 
320 w. Lll l•lle 
Out drrwWI e.ry leu 1"-n 120.00 LWNtM ~ •re• 
South Bend, Ind. 

·-------------~--------· ·----------------------~
·----------------------· OUtiD ~·s Plu.a. tnc 
48801

~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
-...... 

NCAA hopes brighter for lacrosse 
By DAVE DIETEMAN took to get the job done. At this It was then that a steady Sports Writer point, I'd say our motto is downpour began to drench the 'Whatever it Takes."' players and several hundred Tlw Notre Dame lacrosse After Scott Musa won the fans at Moose Krause Stadium, tfHUll shot past the Ohio State opening faceoff. the Irish with thunder and lightning Hucknyes 14-11 on Saturday wasted no time before putting looming in the distance. Yet it afternoon at Moose Krause the scoreboard operator to was also then that the Irish got 
Stadium, helping itself to the work, rattling otT three goals in their own thunder back, as inside track on what could be quick succession. Brian Schirf freshman midfielder Brian its first-ever bid to the NCAA opened the scoring for Notre Mayglothling stunned the Tournament. Dame on an assist from senior Buckeye goalie with a shot as 
The Irish. who are now 8-6 co-captain Mike Quigley, send­fast as the falling sleet which with onn game left to play, won ing a bullet shot past Ohio put the Irish back on top 7-6. the opening facn-otT. and things State goalkeeper John Baker. Mayglothling's freshman knpl going their way all after­It was Quigley who next counterpart, midfielder Ed noon, despitn driving rain and found the net. Squiggling to re­Lamb, nailed an insurance goal slippery conditions. Sophomore cover a loose ball in front of shortly after. attaekman Brian Schirf of the Buckeye net, Quigley Freshman goalkeeper Chris Sudbury, MA, led the Irish of­stunned the Ohio State defense Parent was put in the net for fense in scoring. with a hat as he flipped the ball over his the second half, and the Irish trick and then some, as he shoulder into the goal, giving seemed to have broken the drilled four goals-three of the Irish a quick 2-0 advantage Buckeyes. which came in the first quarter with ten minutes left in the first But Ohio State was not fin­of play. The Buckeyns fell to 4-quarter. ished, as the Buckeyes came out 
7, as the Irish regained the Brian Schirf hit his second shooting in the second half, ovNall series lead with Ohio goal of the afternoon before knotting the score at 9-9 with State 7-6. Ohio State regained its compo­three minutes remaining in the 
"Our tournament hopes are sure. Sophomore attackman third quarter. more likn plans now," said Rob Windeshiem beat Irish It was then that a steady Notrn Dame head coach Kevin keeper Tom Duane, who had downpour of goals began to Corrigan. "We will do all that started the game, to pull the fall in the lap of the Irish, as we can do to make the tourna­Buckeyes to within two goals of sophomore attackman Mike ment this week-in practice and the adrenalin-pumped Irish. Sullivan tallied two scores in in the last game. Today we gave The Irish led 5-3 after one the last :41 of the third quarter, up some goals that let Ohio quarter, but Ohio State quickly and senior Brian McHugh State keep it close, but I think climbed back into the action, blasted two goals in the first the biggest factor in this win shocking the Irish with three 4:30 of the fourth, giving Notre was that the kids knew what goals in one minute to tie the Dame a lead it would never re­was at stake and did what it game at six goals apiece. linquish. 

The win over Ohio State, cou­pled with Notre Dame's earlier victory over Air Force, have the Irish in a frenzy over the possi­bility of their first-ever NCAA Tournament bid. Ohio State further aids the Irish case for a tournament bid because of the Buckeyes's 16-141oss to the Air Force last week. To seal the bid, Notre Dame must dispatch the Spartans of Michigan State, who slipped past the Irish 9-7 last year at East Lansing. 
The Irish face the Spartans on Wednesday afternoon . 
page 19 The Observer Monday, April 30, 1990 
Do It 
continued from page 20 

in those two matches as well, scoring 13 and 10 points re­spectively. 
The road to the finals was not so easy for the Meta Mucils who had to fight for every win. They beat Untamed Lyons 21­18 in the quarterfinals as Ma­honey scored 15, and then toughed out an intense interhall 
"Stick With The One You Know" 
Malicious 
continued from page 20 

Prostitution the lead for good at 18-17, and then was fouled while pulling down a defensive rebound by Keyes. He sank the free throw, and after Dolan hit a free throw for Adworks, he made what may have been his best move of the contest. 
Flynn set a pick for him on the left wing, and Johnson, who had been guarding Flynn, faced up with Scott on the switch. Despite giving up nine inches to Johnson, Scott took him inside, using a hesitation dribble to blow by Adworks's star and kiss a soft right-handed runner off the backboard in the lane for a 20-18 lead. 
Another Dolan free throw brought Adworks back to within one, but after Flynn miss11d a free throw and Johnson came up short on a jumper at the other end, Scott's 17-footer with Rice and Johnson in his face ended the tournament. 
"I thought even the shots I missed were good shots," said Scott, who missed his first five field goal attempts. "I was hoping that they would start to 
The Observer All-Tournament Teams 
First Team Kevin Warren, Expresso Pizza Jody Martinez, Remember It's Denver Dorsey Levens, Soul Sonic Force Derrick Johnson, Adworks Joe Scott, Malicious Prostitution Second Team Demetrius DuBose, Rubber Cement II Ray Flannery, Senior Bar Rob Vasquez, Gauchos Jim Flynn, Malicious Prostitution Ray Griggs, Just Chillin' 
MVP --Joe Scott, Malicious Prostitution All-Tournament teams selected by Observer sports writers Greg Guffey and Ken Tysiac 
drop sooner or later, and they 
did." 

NOTES: Malicious Prostitution reached the finals by defeating Sweet Scotty P. and The Dwarfs 21-15 in the quarterfinals Friday and rout­ing Remember, It's Denver 21­12 in the semis Saturday. Adworks survived a scare against Expresso Pizza in the 
What's That On Your Neck? Meta Mucils, consisting mainly of girls from this year's run­ner-up PE squad, earned sweet revenge over BP's championship squad Hey Loppo by defeating them 22-20 in a fiercely physi­cal game. Hey Loppo eliminated first seeded Fast Break to reach the Final Four. Carol Elliott lead the team with 10 buckets in both matchups. El­liott, a former Irish player, was named Miss Bookstore for the 
---~-------­

-
The Observer I Andrew McCloskey leaping John Bergman in the looks on. 

HAMMES 

NDTREDAME 
I 

quarterfinals, escaping with a 24-22 win, and then beat Tequila White Lightning 21-14 in the semifinals. 
In other quarterfinal games, Remember, 'It's Denver staved off a late Just Chillin' rally to win 21-18, while Tequila White Lightning replaced the injured Jake Kelchner with Bubba Cunningham and smashed Soul Sonic Force 21-14. 
Botham was quick to praise her teammates, none of whom played on her championship squad last year. 
"It's great to see them get the win," said Botham. 
Aiding Botham in the tourney were former Marquette player Missy Byrne who contributed five or six points to each vic­tory. Also on the team, which just sort of "fell together" ac­cording to Botham. were Bo­densteiner, Rachel Hall and Liz Nolan. 


Scotch Clear Scotch
Scotch Mailing 
Box Sealing Strapping
Tape (tan) 
Tape Tape 
$1.99 
$2.59 $2.39 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Garden State 48 Once-around­capital Sol period 
1 Wind's companion? 27 Beelzebub 49 Sailor's tale 
29 Farm animal 

occupants? 30 Herr, in Madrid groupsTuesday 
5 Trousers\ 50 Muslim scholarly 
9 Kind of window 32 Twilled cotton 52 Approaches
12 p.m. Seminar, "Collective Bargaining by Riot: Work­
12 Peak 341nlet 55 Agitate
ers and Citizenship Rights in Spain," Lynne Wozniak, 
13 Frighten 35 Fathered
Ph.D, University of Notre Dame, Department of Govern­56 C.I.A. director: 
14Wile 37 Wildebeest 1976-77
ment and International Studies. 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
15 Inferior; 

Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 38 Aconcagua's 60 Lights-out signal 
amateurish 
location at camp 11 Health agcy. 
12:15 p.m. Lecture, "A Life-Course Perspective on 41 Sable and 61 Good-night girl 18 Kind of case Breton
Post-Retirement Work Activity," Dr. Mark Hayward, 62 Apollo's mother University of Southern California. Library Lounge. Spon­19 Realistic 43 Corrode 
63 Gasps of
sored by Department of Sociology. 21 Meadows, to 44 Irish patriot pleasureMilton 
46-Ferry, 

64 Arabian gazelle 
23 Ape lions W.Va. resort 65 Latin existence 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE DOWN 
1 Shoot the breeze 
2 Major work 
3 Cozy place MENUS 
4 Breathe out 5 Pie -mode 16 Mortgages 50 Salt Lake's state 20Burma­
51 An antitoxin: 6 Mimic Xanthippe 

Notre Dame 
22 Kind of boom 33 Wife of Amen-Ra Comb. form Baked Parmesan Chicken 7 Faithful 24 Strong thread 36 Throw into 
53 RegretsCod Cakes w/ Sauce 8 Daubs 25 Command at a disorder 
54 Speedy planes 

Stuffed Shells 1988 convention 39 Eastern V.I.P.'s 
9Woodsman 55 Penn, e.g. 
Meatball Grinder 10Wan 26 Maugham's 40 This may be "-Nesbit" sewn fine 57 Above, to Key 
~:-:+:::-+-:,--f.,..,+--:-1'!'!"1=+::-+:-.,-i 11 Favorable vote 28 Foch and 42 Frolic 58 Ribose acid, for -=+~:-F--+=-1 13 Adds oxygen Simone 45 Truly sad short 
-'-'--'-""'-'-~ 14 Revolve 29 Period 47 Permit 59 Work the garden 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

,---------------------~ ~£~5~\\0~ r-----~==~~~~~------~~~~~~ OF R£.SCIJ£ FR.ot-1\ Cmon, everyo11e... sm;le' ~ T\-\15 8\.Ef>.~ ~0 

2f2 QUESTION THAT PLA<nUEs M~ 
ISOLt>-T'ED WORI.D.' 
••. CAFF61N6 FREE,
I 




OJR 1-\E.~ ~~~IJS£S. TtlERE.'5 s:»\E. 
COMMOTION <lt{ 11\E \\OR\'Z.Ot-.1. ALIENS.' 
S\1\Ff GRI'£5 \-\IS BLf\5TER.' 
-
/Jt~-~''\ ~;f. 

\ ~\ · 'I _\j ~~·/· • i•t 
•\' ' I , , I 'I 'IIIIPlt\ C 1990 Umversal Press S nd1cate 4 ·30 
FOUNDER OF EARTH DAY 
Senator Gaylord Nelson comes to speak on 

WASHINGTON HALL 

8:00P.M. 

ADMISSION: $2.00 or $1.00 with student I.D. 
•

MONDAY APRIL 30
Tickets ouoiloble ot LoFortune Info Desk 
iponsored by: Student Union Board, The Reilly Center for Science Technology and Val nvironmental Action Club (EAC), Center for Social Concerns, and The Schurz Founda1 


Sports
page 20 Monday, April 30, 1990 
Gold throws block party, beats Blue in spring finale 24-10 
"I feel like I've been through a war," similar to the one suffered by former was a good decision to give him a foot­
BY FRANK PASTOR 

Mirer said after the game. Irish quarterback Terry Andrysiak in ball scholarship."
Associate Sports Editor 

Mirer, who completed 21 of 43 passes 198 7. will keep Kelchner out of action The Blue squad struck right back, Rick Mirer is quickly becoming a for a total of 303 yards in the game (9-for at least four months. with Mirer hitting Raghib Ismail with a of-18, 115 yards Gold, 12-25, 188 "Rick Mirer competed well," Holtz 38-yard flea-flicker pass at the Gold
double threat at quarterback for Notre Blue), shared Offensive MVP honors said. "I know he's tired, but you've got seven-yard line. But safety GeorgeDame. 
with tailback Dorsey Levens, who to fight through that. He's had an Poorman stripped the ball from IsmailJust when a defense thinks they've 
stopped him, he suddenly appears on gained 109 yards on 22 carries for the awfully good spring." and the Gold squad regained posses­Kelchner led the Gold team to its first sion.
the other side of the football. Gold team. 
One week after learning he would be score, a 12-play, 65-yard drive capped Kelchner's first-down pass to tight After Jake Kelchner fractured his Head Coach Lou Holtz's No. 1 quarter­by Levens' two-yard touchdown run. end Irv Smith drew an interference 
right clavicle midway through the first back, Mirer found himself the only Levens carried the ball seven times for penalty, putting the ball on the Gold 22. quarter of Saturday's 60th annual healthy quarterback on the Irish roster. 42 yards on the scoring drive, staking But two runs by Levens and an incom­
Blue-Gold game, Mirer donned a gold Kelchner was injured with just under the Gold team to a 7-0 lead. plete pass amounted to only eight yards jersey and played for both teams, lead­nine minutes remaining in the first 
and punter Jim Sexton was brought ing the Gold squad to a 24-10 victory quarter when he was hit by defensive "Levens has had an awfully, awfully into the game. before a crowd of 29, 451 at Notre tackle Bob Dahl on an incomplete pass good spring," Holtz said. "He made a Dame Stadium. to flanker Adrian Jarrell. The injury, strong bid for the tailback position. It see GOLD I page 15 
'Prostitution', 'Do It' are last words 
Malicious Prostitution outlasts Adworks for title-again 
By KEN TYSIAC finals rolled around as a sleek "Usually, since I am the point Associate Sports Editor Adworks squad featuring guard, my job is to get back on former Irish basketball captain defense, but when I take the 
For the second year in a row Jim Dolan and quick leaper ball to the hole, somebody else the Bookstore Basketball tour­Derrick Johnson was favored has to drop back. They nament ended on a Joe Scott to regain the title it captured in (Adworks) are really fast on rainbow which found nothing 1988. the break, though, so it's tough but net as Malicious Adworks appeared as if it to stop them," Scott said. Prostitution upended Adworks was going to run away with the While Rice was breaking for a 21-19 victory in the finals game in the early going as away early, the rest of the Sunday at Stepan Courts. Johnson staked his squad out Adworks squad was trying to 
Scott, a law student who led to a 4-1 lead by scoring two figure out a way to stop Scott. Princeton to the NCAA buckets and setting up Tony Kevin Keyes tried to play Tournament in 1984, scored Rice for a dunk. Prostitution straight man-to-man defense Prostitution's last four points struck right back with three on him and then attempted to to turn a 17-17 tie into a 21-19 · straight baskets and knotted face-guard him. Johnson tried win. He finished with 13 points the score at 4. to drop off of Jim Flynn to get to lead all scorers and was The game seesawed back and an extra hand in Scott's face. selected as Bookstore's Most forth from that point on as "I wanted to stay in front of Valuable Player for the second there were 10 ties before Scott him and try to stop him from year in a row. took charge with the count at driving to the hole," a frus­
-
17-17. While John Bergman trated Keyes said. "He creates 
Malicious Prostitution, which kept Prostitution in the hunt a lot and we wanted him to seemingly came out of nowhere early, Adworks countered with shoot the jumper, but he didn't to win last year's tournament, Rice, who forgot about crash­miss." 
did not enjoy the comforts of ing the defensive boards and Scott hit a short pull-up at The Observer I Andrew McCloskey 
anonymity this time around. headed downcourt early for an the left elbow to give Kevin Keyes of Adworks guards MVP Joe Scott ot Ma11c1ou::; 
But once again Prostitution assortment of breakaway see MALICIOUS I page 18 Prostitution in the bookstore finals Sunday. Prostitution won, 21-19. 
was thA nnderdol! when the dunks and lavuns. 
Botham too powerful as 'Just Do It' does it 
By CHRIS COONEY down Botham, Meta Mucils "But our zone didn't communi­Assistant Sports Editor looked as if they would cruise cate well in the second half and 
to an easy victory. our shooting went cold." They just did it. Botham attributed the poor Jill Bodensteiner tied it up at 5 Girls Who Just Do It proved start to ill preparation and an 18 with a swish 20-foot jumper, 
themselves the best of women's ineffective man-to-man defense. capping a burst that shifted the bookstore basketball Sunday "We didn't come ready and momentum into Just Do It's afternoon, winning the 1990 have a real good warm-up," court. Championship 22-20 over Meta said Botham. "Once we picked "When they announced the Mucils in a gritty, physical vic­up the tempo and switched to a score at 15-12, I started get­
-
tory. zone defense, we started to ting worried," said Botham, 
The tournament could be re­catch up." "and we kicked into gear. Then named The Sandy Botham As Just Do It slowly closed when we tied it and the crowd Show. Botham once again lead the gap, Meta Mucils main­started cheering, I really felt Just Do It, tallying 13 points tained their lead for most of like we were going to do it.~ and six rebounds on her way to the game, due partially to the The victory capped a tourna­a third consecutive crown. physical play of Morrison and ment in which Just Do It rolled Botham was named game MVP Molly Mahoney. Beside blocking over most of their other oppo­for the second straight year in shots left and right, Morrison nents. Beating Heavy B and the the comeback win. scored four and had nine re­Girls by seven in the quarters 
The Meta Mucils roared out bounds. Mahoney lead Meta and then downing C.J.'s Gals by to a 7-1 lead over a sluggish Mucils with seven baskets. an identical score in the semis, Just Do It squad. With former "We held Sandy well that Just Do It seemed a shoo-in for Notre Dame player Beth Morri­whole first half," said the title. Botham lead the team son making her first three bas­Morrison, who at 6-4 is a kets and virtually shutting former teammate of Botham's. 
see DO IT I page 18 

Sit and wait 

The men's tennis team, after 
This Bookstore matchup is getting pretty old two victories this weekend, must wait to hear if it received 
This is starting to get old. This was one for pride and respect because somewhere 
When Malicious Prostitution along the path to a second consecutive title Malicious 
an NCAA bid. Page 16. 

defeated A~works 21-19 Sunday · became the underdogs. Maybe it was when The Dogs afternoo!l· It ~arked the second barked too loudly in the round of 64 or maybe it was when consecutive sprmg that a group of Pete VanDyke missed a series of games midway through 
Closer 

upstart law students downed the the tournament. 
A victory over Ohio State puts 
favorites to wi!l th~ Bookstore But the most logical explanation is that there was no way 
the lacrosse team closer to the
Basketball champiOnship. four law students ~ho spend their time in mock trials and 
NCAA tournament. Page 17.
If. not fo.r the few new players another who spends 'his time punching opponents senseless 
sp.rmkled m on both. teams, fans G G ff in a boxing ring could play basketball with five pure 
might have thoug~t this was a tape reg U ey athletes in the purest playground tourney in the country. 
of the 1989 classic between those Sports Editor Malicious came into the weekend games with something 
two teams.. , to prove and left with mission accomplished. The dunks 
Season finale 

. B~t unhke last year, th~ tape wont and flashy passes by Adworks got the cheers, but Malicious 
The women's tennis team 

Ignite any arguments. This one was without a doubt. There did the things to get the win. 
closes out its season by

is no need to convince people further that Mailicous is for . 
blanking Butler: Page 16. 

real. see REPEAT I page 15 
>..';"}·' 






