
-------------·--~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------. 
·2----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

VOL XXIII NO. 35 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1990 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
House Democrats draft tax hikes for wealthy 
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Bush said Thursday he could trade a modest increase in taxes on affiuent Americans for a deep cut in capital gains rates but that it was "a waste of time" to try to push such a deal through a divided Congress. 
Instead, Bush called on lawmakers to put aside that battle and come up with a $500-billion deficit-reduction plan that contains neither element. 
Within hours, Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee said they were well into writing an alternative budget that would not only raise taxes on rich Americans but push them higher than Bush has said he can accept. 
The committee's chairman, Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, said the changes would "restore fairness to our tax system." He said the Democrats would meet again Friday to decide whether the package will also reduce the capital gains tax rate, but if it does "it'll be a lot less rich" than the administration's version. 
Congressional committees are working toward the goal of finding a half-trillion dollars in spending cuts and tax increases before the Oct. 19 deadline when the latest emergency spending authorization expires. 
By most accounts, higher Medicare premiums and taxes on alcohol, cigarettes and gasoline are likely to be included. 
"We believe we have made progress," Senate Democratic Leader George Mitchell said after a meeting with Republican Leader Bob Dole and members of the Finance Committee. 
Trying to end two days of confusion surrounding the president's position on taxes, the White House laid out -but said it wouldn't push -a plan that would combine higher taxes on the 500,000 or so wealthiest Americans with lower capital gains rates for people who profit from sales of stocks, real estate and other investments. 
Bush, trying to put the pressure on 
lawmakers, said, "The meter is running, 
but look, I can't dictate to Congress." 

Sacred Heart's restored beauty is shown here, the result of nearly two year's His hypothetical package would ~p_a_in_s_t_ak_i_n_g_w_o_r_k_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~increase the top rate on the highest-
Clark: Irish, U.S. influence each other 
By COLLEEN GANNON 
News Writer 
Americans probably had a more distinctive cultural impact on Ireland than they have had on their two closest neighbors, Mexico and Canada, said Dennis Clark. a prominent his­torian on the Irish. 
"Big countries have problems dealing with little countries," said Clark in his lecture entitled "Paddy's Payback: The American Impact on Ireland." The difference of scale between a massive America and a tiny Ireland gives rise to peculiar notions about each of the two countries, he said. 
According to Clark, these notions include America as a giant consumer warehouse bereft of any deeper values and Ireland as a smiling fairyland of charm and sociability. 
The differing dreams of the two countries provide another contrast. America dreams of frontiers, mobility, and wealth, while Ireland dreams of a dif­ferent kind of mobility and escape, said Clark. 
A final contrast between the two countries that Clark pointed out came from litera­ture. "On one hand is the sweep of a great continent. On the other is the confinement of an intimidated nation," he said. 
Despite their differences, Clark spoke of American eco­nomic, political, and religious influences on Ireland. 
Economically, "the United States drew off the surplus la­bor of a stricken society," said Clark.The money earned "kept whole generations from suffer­ing the devastation of hunger in Ireland," he said. 
In modern times, 350 American corporations have subsidiaries active in Ireland representing $3.6 billion. Clark said that is a considerable amount of money for a small country like Ireland. 
Politically, "the great deeds of the American Revolution had a reverberation there," he said. According to Clark, the vision of liberation from colonial rule gave the Irish aspiration to­wards democracy. 
On the other hand, when the rebellion of 1798 failed, America received talented refugees from Ireland. These refugees helped to invent the American political party sys­tem, said Clark. 
As for religious development, "The Roman Catholic clergy have built up the greatest church in the U.S. by means of the Irish masses," he said. 
In modern times, Ireland has become inundated with the im­ages and writings of our mass communication. "The most tawdry American television nonsense echoes in the house­holds of families who just one generation ago were the heirs to an ancient oral, literary tra­dition," said Clark. Also, Amedcan rock music and clothing styles effect life in Ireland. 
"The greatest force operating between the two countries was the simple force of human in­terchange," he said. Furthermore, the Irish did not even have to come here to be Americanized, said Clark. 
see IRISH I page 6 

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS • Air Force Weekend 1990 • 
Friday 

3 p.m. Campus tours departing from the statue of Our Lady, Main Gate 
4:30 
p.m. Marching Band Rehearsal, from Washington Hall, and steps of Main Building to Green Field 

4:30 
p.m. Glee club, open rehearsal, Crowley Hall, 


Room 115 7 p.m. Pep rally, Joyce ACC, Gate 3 7:30·10:30 p.m. Parents' Football Weekend "Casino 
Night," Stephan Center 
9:30 p.m. Sorin talent show, front porch of Sorin Hall 
Saturday 

7 a.m. Band Rehearsal, Cartier Field 
8 a.m.· game time ND & SMC alumni & friends are in­vited to Alumni Hospitality Center, JACC, Gates 2 &3 
9:30a.m. Porn Porn Squad Performance, JACC North Dome 
9:30 a.m. Alcoholics Anonymous, Center for Social Concerns 10 a.m. Porn Porn Squad & Chcerleading performance, 
in front of Bookstore 10 a.m. Glee Club concert, JACC North Dome 
10:30 
a.m. Shenanigans performance, JACC North Dome 

10:30 
a.m. Band concert, Main building steps 


11 :20 a.m. Band steps-off 
12:10 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Air Force, Stadium After the game ND/SMC all-class reunion, JACC North 
Dome Gates 2 &3 4 p.m. Mass, Crypt 5 p.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Church 
income people from 28 percent to 31 
percent. ease the top rate from 33 
percent to 31 percent for some 4.5 
million slightly less well-to-do taxpayers 
and chop the rate on capital gains from 
28 percent to 15 percent. 
That would do away with the "bubble" 
in the tax code, under which some 
upper middle-income taxpayers now pay 
a higher rate than the wealthiest. 
The White House held out the proposal 
as the outer limit of Bush's willingness 
to compromise on taxes. Of some 
Democratic proposals to raise the top 
rate to a flat 33 percent, Bush said, "I 
cannot accept that." 
Thursday's proposal by the Ways and Means Committee Democrats, which they plan to offer on the House floor next week, would indeed raise the top rate for the richest Americans to 33 percent. And people earning more than $1 million annually would also pay a 10 percent tax surcharge. 
In addition, cuts to Medicare beneficiaries would total $10 billion over the next five years, down from the $28 billion budget summit negotiators agreed to last month and $7 billion less than the full Ways and Means Committee agreed to Wednesday. 
Bush's budget director, Richard G. Darman, told a Senate panel that the administration had privately proposed coupling a 31 percent top tax rate with a capital-gains cut last month but had been turned down by Democrats. 
"It's my personal opinion that it's not negotiable on satisfactory terms on both sides," Darman told the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee. "There just isn't a deal there." 
The developments came in a day of damage control at the White House, as Bush and his lieutenants sought to counter an impression of presidential indecisiveness on the continuing budget impasse. 
The president presented his case in three separate White House meetings on Thursday with House Republicans. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Corporate America needs new attitude 
You have a degree (or almost) from one of the nation's leading universities. You were· a top student in your class. You held pres­tigious internships during your summe~s Christine Walsh and have (or will have) a job with a Business Editor major corporation. 

However, ten years from now, chances are that you will be making significantly less money than the guy (with the same job title) in the office next to yours, in the best sce­nario, and you will not even have reached the same position in the same amount of time, in the worst. 
Why?-You are a woman. 
An article entitled, "Why Women Still Don't Hit the Top" (Fortune, July 30, 1990), showed that over 20 years from the heyday of the women's movement, women are still far from reaching parity with their male counterparts in the business world. 
According to Fortune, in 1990, out of 4,000 officers and directors of Fortune 500 companies, only 19 are women. This is not a significant increase over 1978 when out of 6,400 officers and directors, 10 were 
women. 
Let's put it another way-Less than half 
of one percent of the top positions in corpo­
rate America are occupied by women. 
In a recent poll by Catalyst, a group that 
does research on women in the workplace, 
of 240 CEOs participating in a survey, 81 
percent acknowledged the existence of bar­
riers such as stereotyping and preconcep­
tions, as the chief factor in preventing 
women from reaching the top. 
Consider that women comprise: 
• Over half of all college students 
• 37 percent of business graduate stu­dents 
• Roughly 40 percent of law students 
If women are receiving the same educa­
tional backgrounds as men, then why are 
they still grossly underrepresented in the 
business world? 
In the past, it has not been an uncommon 
practice for businessmen to strike deals at 
'The Club', in the locker room after rae.: 
quetball, or on the golf course-functions 
from which women were largely excluded. 
Now think about how many deals are made 
over 'a few drinks' or on the ninth gr,een. 
Therein lies the disadvantage. 
Yet this is just a single example about 
how inadvertent discrimination can affect a 
woman's chance at getting to the top of the 
corporate ladder. 
The solution does not lie in a resurrection 
of the feminist movement, or special legisla­
tion, or corporate policies directed toward 
pampering women, but it lies in changing 
attitudes. 
Otherwise, it won't be only women who suffer. The real losers will be the members of the business community, who are system­atically eliminating half of the potential workforce. 

PO. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7 4 71 
Production Lisa Eaton Wendy Cunningham Cristina Ortiz Melissa Cusack 
Systems Cesar Capella Amalia Meier 
Circulation Bill O'Rourke Matt Novak 
Thursday's Staff 
News Scoreboard Bradley Galko Rolando de Aguiar Florentine Hoelker 
Accent  Viewpoint  
Fran Moyer  Denisse Marion-Landais  
Brian Grunert  

Robyn Simmons 
Sports Graphics Frank Pastor Michael "Wedge" Muldoon Pat Middler 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation penods The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
The Observer 
WEATHER 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
X
[Til !llJ
® © ~ ~ ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS HURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Anyone interested in the esc Mexico Project should come to the Informational Meeting Wednesday, October 17, at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. If you are unable to come, call Kathy at 277­9406 or Lauren at 271-1380. 
The Samaritan club needs ND and SMC stu­dents to play basketball and volleyball with local neigh­borhood kids today, 5 to 7 p.m., at Logan Gymnasium. If you have questions call Diana 283-4053. 
The Friday Forum presentation by Coil, "A Catholic Feminist: Oxymoron?" which was held on Oct. 5 at the Center for Social Concerns will NOT be repeated on Oct. 12 as stated in the "This Week" publication. 
Call for auditions for Tom Stoppard's "Rosencrontz and Guildstern are Dead" will be held Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 17 & 18 at 7 p.m. in the Lab Theatre in Washington Hall. Anyone who cannot make these nights should contact Gerry Smith at 232­7269. 
Applications for the Extern Program for SARG members are now past due. Please drop off appli­cat_ion~ by Friday, Oct. 12, in Room 201 Main Building. This will be the last day for applications. No exceptions! 
WORLD 
Octavio Paz, who explored the Mexican charac­ter and the universal themes of love, death and loneliness in lyrical poetry and impassioned essays, won the Nobel Prize in literature Thursday. The Swedish Academy in Stockholm awarded Paz the prize for his "exquisite love poetry, at the same time sensuous and visual," and for his wide international perspective. "Poetry is not a very popular art form these days, but it's an essential part of human life," Paz said in New York, where he is inaugurat­ing a Mexican art exhibit at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. "Poetry is the memory of a country, of language." 

Logan Center Volunteers: Come and dance with the clients after bowling tonight at the October Dance from 7:30 tolO p.m. Come early and help decorate. Van .pickups 6:45 or 7:10 p.m. at Holy Cross, Saint Mary's; 6:50 or 7:15p.m. at the Main Circle. No Saturday rec this weekend because of the game. If you have ques­tions call Janet 284-5090, or Sally 283-3783. 
Misa en Espanol Hispanic American orga­nization will be taking a van to St. Stephen's for 9:15 p.m. mass. Van will pick up at Saint Mary's LeMans Hall at 
8:30 p.m., the Library Circle at 8:45 p.m. and the Main Circle at 8:50p.m. 
Join lchthus tonight for our first social activ­ity. Meet at 5:30 p.m. at Library Circle. 
ND vs. Air Force pep rally will be tonight at 7 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. 
The SEA (environmental club) will be having workshops on ecologically sound living this Sunday, Oct. 14, at 7 p.m. in the CSC building. These workshops contain the latest environmental issues learned about at the International Catalyst Conference held last weekend. 
Kuwait's exiled rulers have invited 450 promi­nent citizens to a conference in Saudi Arabia this weekend to consider the future shape of a free Kuwait. The former governing officials of Kuwait are eagerly -and unchar­acteristically -soliciting the attendance of the Western press at the event. Crown Prince Sheik Saad al Abdullah made it clear that the agenda will range from future de­fense arrangements to the rights of Kuwaiti citizens and 
foreign workers. 
NATIONAL 
Sponsors of a civil rights bill de­signed to combat job discrimination made last­minute concessions to the Bush administration Thursday in a move to save the measure from a threatened presidential veto. Critics said, how­ever, President Bush still appeared poised to re­ject the bill on grounds that it would usher in mi­nority hiring quotas. The bill would overturn six Supreme Court decisions last year and has been the top item on the civil rights movements prior­ity list in recent months. Other provisions range from a ban on racial harassment on the job to a obstacles to reopening court-approved minority hiring agreements. 

MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index  
162.20  ..  2.77  
S&P Composite  
300..39  ~  4.93  

Dow Jones Industrials 
2,365.10 • 42.82 
Precious Metals Gold +$1.40 to $389.70/oz. Sliver+ 17.4e to $4.235/oz. ­
Friday, October 12, 1990 
Yesterday's high: 50 Yesterday's low: 3 7 Nation's high: 99 
(Monrovia, Calif.) Nation's low: 1 8 (Gunnison, Colo. and McCall, Idaho) 
Forecast: Mostly cloudy and not as cool today. Highs in the lower 60s. Decreasing cloudiness and cool tonight. Lows in the lower 40s. Partly sunny and a little warmer Saturday. Highs in the middle 60s. 
ALMANAC 
October 12: 
eln1492: Christopher Columbus discovered America as his ships ar­rived in the present-day Bahamas. 
eln 1933: Bank robber John Dillinger escaped from a jail in Allen County, Ohio, with the help of his gang, who killed the sheriff. 
eln 1960: Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev disrupted a U.N. General Assembly session by pounding his desk with his shoe during a dispute. 
eln 1984: British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher escaped an attempt on her life when a bomb planted by the Irish Republican Army exploded at a hotel in Brighton, England. 
• Five years ago: A Le­banese newspaper published a photo­graph of what was purported to be the lifeless body of American hostage William Buckley, said to have been ex­ecuted by Islamic Jihad. 
I a • 'I. l l f 'l I If • o o•• • • f, l " " ._ 

Friday, October 12, 1990 
The Observer page 3 


The Observer/David Short 

Computer help 
Joel Smith, assistant professor of philosophy and director of educational computing at Allegheny College, gives a lecture on how computers can help education. See story page 5. 
[}{!G)[f)[f)W [IDorru[m@JG)w Katie c2o on 1o112) ad, Billy (22 on 10/17) JONES!! 
A RIDE TO/FROM CHURCH? THE WHITE VAN OF FlRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH WILL BE AT THE MAIN CIRCLE BUS STOP SUNDAYS 9:00A.M. FOR RIDES TO/FROM THE CHURCH. 333 WEST COLFAX. MORNING WORSHIP 10:00 & ADULT CLASSES 11:15. TO RECEIVE CHURCH NEWSPAPER AND FOR OTHER INFORMATION CALL 234-4159. "Y'ALL COME!" 
Stark to get award at 
A.F. game 
Special to The Observer 
Dennis Stark, director of aquatics at Notre Dame, will receive the Notre Dame Alumni Association's Harvey G. Foster Award during a ceremony im­mediately preceding the Notre Dame/Air Force football game on Saturday. 
Stark, a 1947 Notre Dame graduate, oversees all the University's aquatics programs, teaches physical education classes and officiates at local swim meets. He assumed his present position in 1985 after 27 years as a swimming coach at Notre Dame. In 1984, he was named Coach of the Year by the North Star Conference. 
In addition to his work for the University, he served as aquatics venue manager for the International Special Olympic Games held at Notre Dame in 1987. Widely admired for their work for South Bend's Logan Center and in a variety of other community services, Stark and his wife, Angelina, have five children, three of whom are Notre Dame graduates. 
The Harvey G. Foster Award was established by the Alumni Association in 1982 in memory of a 1939 Notre Dame graduate who had died the previous year. Foster, who became vice president of American Airlines after eighteen years as an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, was an active member of the Alumni Association and served terms on its board of directors and as its president. 
The Foster Award is given annually to a Notre Dame graduate distinguished for athletic endeavors and community service. 
We're Fighting For Your Life. 
ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 
:.,.,....., .....,,,..............., .....,,....., .........., ....., ..........,:.., .....,,....................,~....~........~..~.. 
1990 Cora[ 'Dodge Irish :fa[[ C[assic ?{ptre 'Dame vs. Jl.ir :Jorce 
~riday, Octo6er 12, 8:30pm CoveCesKf. Stadium, Soutfi 'Bend 


Provost O'meara has been made honorary alumnus 
Special to The Observer 

Provost Timothy O'Meara, who has served 12 years as the second-ranking academic officer of Notre Dame, has been made an honorary alumnus of the University. 
The surprise honor was an­nounced at a dinner of the na­tional board of directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association on campus Wednesday, Oct. 10, at which O'Meara spoke. 
A native of South Africa educated at the University of Cape Town, he received his 
Ph.D.  from  Princeton  
University  in  1953.  He  
subsequently  alternated  


NO professor publishes book on politics, media 
Special to the Observer 

"Statecraft and Stagecraft: American Political Life in the Age of Personality," an exami­nation of contemporary mass communication's influence on American political life has been published by the University of Notre Dame Press. 
Written by Robert Schmuhl, an associate professor of American Studies at Notre Dame, the book's six essays explore how popular media af­fect the world of politics. The values of popular communica­tion lead, Schmuhl argues, "to an emphasis on appealing im­ages, symbolic gestures, dra­matic encounters, audience­gathering opportunities" and "place a premium on personal­ity, with the personality often taking precedence over political beliefs, principles and policies." 
The interaction of media and politics is not new, Schmuhl points out. Theodore Roosevelt was aided by the early days of film, Franklin Roosevelt by the golden days of radio, John Kennedy exploited television, 
.. G R £~Yf ~::::~;an 
Cocktail Lounge 
'U.1~ ·L Authentlc Szechuan, 
,, JillJ.. 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 
r=-----""i" Lunches starting at----$3.45 
J3anquet room Dinners starting at----$5.45 
~vailable for u~ Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 

to 200 Mon.• ThU<S. 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. ~2~7~2~-7:=37:':6~-Sun. & Holidays 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
130 Dixie WayS., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
'111.:"1111......... 
between 1957 and 1962 as a faculty member at Princeton and as a member of the Institute for Advanced Study. 
He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1962, and his four books in the field of modern mathematics have gained him an international reputation. 


and Ronald Reagan's success with television and radio was unsurpassed, he said. 
The author notes that over the past 30 years, however, "the modes of popular com­munication, especially televi­sion, have grown in signifi­cance," leading to what some call "the mediaization of poli­tics." 
A 1970 gradt~ate of Notre Dame who earn< tis doctorate in English and A1.1erican stud­ies from Indiana University in 1978, Schmuhl is a specialist in ethics and the media who often serves as a commentator on politics for print and broadcast media. He has published three previous books. 


AWARENESS 
WEEK 
October 7-13, 1990 

Friday, October 12, 1990
The Observer 
Breakdown of the 24 U.S. military personnel killed and eight missing so far in Operation Desert Shield: 
Oct. 10: A U.S. Air Force F-111 fighter­bomber crashed in Saudi Arabia, killing both crew members. The aircraft was attached to the 48th Tactical Fighter Wing 
based at RAF Lakenheath Air Base in Britain. Oct. 8: In Saudi Arabia two U.S. pilots died in the crash of a RF4C Phantom reconnaissance jet belonging to a unit of the Alabama Air National Guard. 
Two UH-1 helicopters, carrying eight Marines, vanished during a training flight Monday. Rescuers searching for the missing helicopters reported finding debris in the north UH-1 Helicopter

Arabian Sea but no bodies. 
Sept. 30: Two Air Force pilots were killed Sunday when their F-15 fighter plane crashed during an exercise in Saudi Arabia. 
Sept. 26: A Marine Corps staff sergeant from the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing in Saudi Arabia died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. 
Sept. 20: An Army specialist from the 82nd Airborne was killed in a vehicle accident in Saudi Arabia. 
Sept. 14: An officer from the U.S. Army's 24th Infantry Division was killed when his vehicle left the roadway and crashed in Saudi Arabia's Eastern Province. 
Aug. 29: A giant C-5A transport aircraft ·~·· · •··· · · · · · · • ·•·· · ·· . ••
· loaded with supplies for U.S. forces in the ...· .· . .·.·.·.··.·;,Ill . ·•;••·· Persian Gulf crashed and burned shortly · · · after takeoff, killing 13 crew members. C•SA Gatrucy Cargo Jet 
Aug. 21: An electrician's mate aboard the USS Antietam, was electrocuted in an accident during maintenance of the ship's,_....... ventilation system. Antietam 
Aug. 12: An Air Force Staff sergeant died when he was hit by a military truck on a darkened runway in Saudi Arabia. 

Little Philly Flyer 




r~M~~ttW~~
I and ~ 
-RTNESS 
,BAKER'S BIKE SHOP, INC. 
• SALES • SERVICE • CLOTHING EXERCISERS • ACCESSORIES


I.·. 
BIKES STORED &BOXED. STUDENT DISCOUNT ON KRIPTONITE LOCKS. 
1 
CLOSED SUNDAY & MO.YCIC ~. 
135 DIXIE WAY SOUTH SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 3835 UNCOLNWAY EAST

I... 
(219)277-8866: MISHAWA.KA, IN 46544 . ROSELAND (219)259-4862 
~.,_.--~~~~~)QID(::4&(}.-<:-..::~'.IIDC.::41CK:'-:•
1

Air Force grounds all flights 
(APJ-Britain's foreign secre­tary said Thursday that Saddam Hussein must be told force will be used if Iraq doesn't withdraw from Kuwait. 
The Air Force, meanwhile. grounded all training flights in the Persian Gulf region for 24 hours from midday Wednesday until midday Thursday to dis­cuss air safety with pilots. The order followed separate acci­dents this week in which 12 
U.S. servicemen died. 
A group of 321 Western evacuees from Iraq and Kuwait landed in Britain on Thursday in the first such flight in nearly three weeks. Most of the pas­sengers were Americans and many were children. 
The Americans and Canadians on the flight were to leave Friday for Raleigh­Durham International Airport in North Carolina, said Andrew Varney, Gatwick airport's di­rector of public affairs. . 
While Westerners continued to flee occupied Kuwait with tales of low food supplies and looting by Iraqi troops, inter­national pressure grew against Saddam to withdraw from the oil-rich emirate he invaded and annexed. 
Speaking at the annual con­ference of the governing Conservative Party in Bournemouth, England, British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd urged the world to remain united against Iraq's oc­cupation. 
"If it does not (hold). then despite the coalition, despite the leadership of the United States, despite the cooperation of the Soviet Union -then we shall be back in a world of an­archy punctuated by explosions of force," Hurd said. 

"The clouds would have ex­tinguished the light. We cannot allow this to happen." 
Hurd also said Saddam should know that force will be used if Iraq does not pull out of Kuwait, which his troops in­vaded on Aug. 2. 
"Day by day we must build in the minds of the Iraqis the cer­tainty that they have to leave Kuwait -if not peaCI~fully, then forced out by military action," Hurd said. 
Monday's killing by Israeli police of 19 Arabs during a riot in Jerusalem brought interna­tional outcry and united Arab nations against Israel, a close ally of the United States. There was concern that the Israeli ac­tion might weaken Arab sup­port for the multinational mili­tary presence in the gulf. 
The U.N. Security Council is considering means of censuring Israel that would satisfy outraged Arab nations and also Israel's allies. 
Oil prices rose $1.73 a barrel in New York Thursday to close at $40.43 on unfounded rumors that a Palestine terrorist group lobbed missiles into the Israeli­occupied West Bank, land taken from the Arabs in the 1967 war. Stocks in New York again fell, down 42.82 points to an 18­month low at 2,365.10. 
More than 170,000 U.S. troops are deployed in Saudi Arabia and on warships in the gulf region, backed by vessels and soldiers from other coun­tries. Most nations, with few exceptions, have condemned Iraq's aggression. 
The Air Force announced it had halted all training flights in the gulf region but not recon­naissance missions and other "operational patrols," said a second Pentagon spokesman, Col. Miguel Monteverde. 
, 

TREAT YOUR PARENTS 
to the hilarious and slightly irreverent musical 
DO PATENT LEATHER SHOES REALLY REFLECT UP? 
Presented by the Student Players Washington Hall Friday October 12 at 8:10pm Saturday October 13 at 8: 10 pm Congratulations Jeff McGarrity, staff cast and crew 

We're Banking on your Career Success. 

W 
e are Manufacturers National Corporation, a major Detroit-based regi?~al bank 
holding company with over 6,000 employes and assets of $10.9 billion. Our corporation provides a wide variety of financial services to customers worldwide through the corporation's banking and subsidiary offices. 
Representatives of Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit (our principal subsidiary) will be conducting campus interviews for career opportunities within the Metro Detroit area at University of Notre Dame on Wednesday, October 31, 1990. 
We will seek individuals who have a Bachelors degree in a business related field. We offer a wide variety of exciting and challenging career opportunities for: 
• 
Cost & Financial Analysts in our Controllers Department 

• 
Corporate Trust Analysts in our Trust Department 

• 
Examiners in our Audit Department 


• 
Credit Analysts in our Commercial Lending Area 


Explore career possibilities with us. Contact your placement office to arrange an on-campus interview. 

Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN 

Friday, October 12, 1990 
The Observer page 5 


Scherbachev discusses church 
By SHANNON RYAN day U.S.S.R. is dependent upon 
News Writer two compulsory principles, said Scherbachev. First, society must allow and respect the 
An individual's internal spiri­prophetic mission of the tual growth can be promoted or Church. Second, there must be hampered by external societal no latent political policy identi­conditions, said Mikhail fication or support of a specific Jaroslavovich Scherbachev, political leader. deputy head of the publishing However, the Church department of the Patriarchate "certainly cannot ignore things of the Russian Orthodox (issues) that influence social Church. morality," and must therefore 
Scherbachev's lecture focused reconcile itself with the political on the Church's position as a aspect of society, he said. "catalyst designed to transform Scherbachev marks the ob­and reform humans" in a servance of the second millen­changing Soviet Union. nium of the baptism of Russia 
Sin is not confined to a per­two years ago as a turning sonal matter, but influences all point for Russian Orthodoxy. social interaction, said Before this time, the Church Scherbachev. This relationship was subjected to oppression by affects the Church's mission to the Communist Party and "save people and bring them to "those in society who doubted the heavenly kingdom where our sincerity and regarded the their souls can repose forever." Church as a dangerous, evil en­
The success of the Russian emy of society." Orthodox Church in modern-The Church's renewed free-
Unless you really enjoy reading manuals, get aMacintosh. 
Tim Moses Computer Science Vanderbilt University 
'\\lacintosh practically eliminates the need to keep manuals next to my computer. because-regardless ofwhich program I'm using-Ican open,dose,save, and print files in exactly the same way. And you can't say that about any other computer. "T<x.lay lots ofother computers are anempting to lwk and work like a~lacintosh. hut it's jlt~t not possible. They're t<X> fundamentally different to begin '"ith.This may sound alittle strange, hut comparing a Macintosh to othercomputer.s is like com· paring apples to oranges.You can squash the orange into shape and paint it to look like an apple, but underneath the makeup, it's still an orange. "It's funny-I work at the Vanderbilt computerstore and I've seen lot~ of people sv..itch from other computer.s to Macintosh, hut I've never seen anybody \\ith a Macintosh S\\itch to another computer." 
For more information, please contact: 
'0IIU II \\I~ ( '0\fl'l H K S I'OIU 
OffiC..'t or linJVCrMty Compuung Cumpuung Center/Math Bu1ldmg 
l'hcmr: 239-7477 
Hour.: ~on. • 1°ri.. 9:00 · 5:00 
\Xhy do people lm·e \blintosh'? Ask them. 
c 1990 Apple Computer. Inc Apple, !he Apple logO. and Macintosh are reg•sterAd trademarks of App$e Computer, Inc 

dom to practice Christianity has left Russian Orthodoxy facing a new set of problems. The 6,000 churches and 25 monasteries returned from the government must be renovated and restored for religious purposes. The accompanying increased demand for ordained priests must be met. Beyond these pragmatical concerns, the Church must remedy the "serious problem of no-parish life...this was destroyed during the period of difficulty and oppression." 
Scherbachev further ex­plained the legislative difficul­ties facing the Church. "The new law should clearly state that 'freedom of conscience' re­flects freedom of choice to be religious or atheist," he said. 
The Church's future agenda includes a cultural revival and an emphasis on the spiritual and social background of Russian Orthodoxy. 
"We hope for the best in the future," concluded Scherbachev, "and we will re­turn our Church to the status which belonged to it in our long and rich history." 
Computers used in the classroom 
By PETER AMEND 
News Writer 
With the dawning of affordable and space conscious super computers, companies like NeXT Computer, Inc., will change the way we learn in the classroom, according to Joel Smith, assistant professor of philosophy at Allegheny College. According to Smith, it is pos­sible to design homework exer­cises on computers that com­bine text, images, notebooks and writing to give students the opportunity to better under­stand abstract concepts. Using these computer applications forces the student to focus on their discipline, he said. "If you get students to sit at their desks with five books open and a piece of paper, conceptu­ally, it's the same thing," said Smith, "but a very major practi­cal difference is that they will be more intrigued by this way of getting the information." The computers improve com­munication between student and teacher, said Smith. He gave the example of a student composing an English paper. Once the paper enters the net­work system, the teacher can read, correct, and send the pa­per back to the student. The computer has the option of "voice", so that the student can hear the teacher's corrections via a digitalized voice. Smith said the computer approach has been especially effective in teaching weaker students. One of the computer's unique applications is displaying how theoretical physics relates to physical phenomena ustng mo­tive graphics. 
In regard to implementing such a computer system at Notre Dame, Dennis Snow, as­sociate professor of mathemat­ics at NO, said he would like to see such a system used here. However, he noted that provid­ing the necessary computer in­frastructure and coordinating an inter-dt>partmental comput­ing network would take exten­sive faculty cooperation and 


page 6 The Observer Friday, October 12, 1990 




Senate approves funds for additional Stealth bombers 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate Appropriations Committee approved a $268 billion dl'fense bill Thursday that leaves intact President Bush's 1991 budget request for the B-2 stealth bomber. 
By voice vote, the panel adopted the legislation after turning aside an attempt by Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., to stop production of the B-2 at six planes. 
"The greatest threat to our national security is not the Soviet Union; it is our spiraling debt," Leahy told his col­leagues. The lawmaker also pointed to an Air Force review that found widespread prob­lems with the aircraft's manu­facturer, the Northrop Corp. 
Sen. Daniel Inouye, D-Hawaii and chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee on defense, argued that the measure would result in the United States spending $35 bil­lion on "an unfinished science project." 
The bill largely tracks the steps taken in August by the Senate when it approved sepa­rate legislation that outlined ceilings on defense spending for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1. 
The committee bill, which would appropriate actual funds, trims about $1 billion from Bush's $4.7 billion budget request for the Strategic Defense Initiative, cuts troop strength by 100,000 and pro­vides $5.1 billion for two B-2 bombers in 1991 and compo­nents for more bombers in 1992. 
The measure includes $238 million for the V-22 Osprey tilt­rotor aircraft but not the $165 million in proeurement money the House included for the pro­gram Bush has proposed canceling. 
The committee also adopted by voice vote an amendment re­stricting the way the adminis­tration can spend money on 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
However, Clark points out that America did not have the only influence on Irish culture. The presence of Britain can be seen everywhere from Ireland's government to its speech. 
"The current struggles in Northern Ireland are a haunt­ing tragedy," he said. The American ability to deal with people directly is not an Irish characteristic. According to Clark, this leads to a failure to ask direct and serious ques­tions. 
"I think Americans missed the point there, missed an opportu­nity to be of great service to Ireland. We should have long ago ventilated with a little bit of American fresh air the stuffy propriety" of the Northern Irish, said Clark. 
"We have an opportunity," he said. "as citizens of a global power, to reach out to this small country as a case exam­ple and teach ourselv~s how to deal with the smaller, poorer, fractured countries of our earth." 
In closing, Clark said we must now see beyond the tourist posters and surface sociability into the real lives of people in another country that has had such a historic and meaningful relationship with the United States. 
specific programs within SDI, commonly known as Star Wars. 
Leahy is expected to bring up the B-2 amendment again when the full Senate takes up the de­fense spending plan, possibly as early as Friday. 
Nevertheless, the panel's ac­tion was welcome news to Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and a B-2 propo­nent. 
"That'll help; that'll help. We're hanging on by stealthy fingers," Nunn said of the vote. 
Earlier in the day, Air Force Secretary Donald Rice pleaded with Congress not to decide the fate of the B-2 based on the Air Force review. 
"It would be both inappro­priate and unwise to use the re­view," Rice told the Senate Armed Services Committee at a hastily-scheduled hearing. "Weapon systems must con­tinue to be judged on the basis of the threat." 
Seeking to repair the damage to the B-2 bomber program 
Roru.~9.RqtrY ,PtQ!lena 






TRAIL RIDES 
meadows, ponds, OPEN ALL YEAR ROUND woods. 2525 E. 850 N. LA PORTE, IN 
1Y2 Mi. south of Heston on Fail Rd. (200 E.). Turn on 850 N. 


SNEAKERS 
Sports Restaurant Lounge 
* Basketball Shoot 
Expires 10/31/90 

* 
Three Dart Boards 

* 
Nightly Specials 

* 
Pizzas/ Sandwiches/ Appetizers 

* 
DJ Every Friday and Saturday Night 


------------------l

ND 
*Conveniently Located Just Off Campus *Come Watch the Irish Beat Air Force *Show Student ID and Receive lOo/o Off Food Everyday 
Located in University Lanes -1602 N. Ironwood-233-BOWL (2695) 
from Air Force testimony ear­lier this week on major prob­lems at Northrop, Nunn sum­moned Rice before the p·anel to discuss the service's review. 
On Tuesday, Brig. Gen. Robert 
W. Drewes, who led the eight­man team that conducted the study, told a House panel that Northrop was beset by problems in nearly every aspect of its business. 
Drewes identified weaknesses in systems engineering, the transition from research and development to production, software management, subcon­tract management, organiza­tion and personnel and busi­ness systems, which includes cost and schedule estimates. 
The review did not delve into problems associated with ongo­ing federal probes of the Los Angeles-based company. Northrop pleaded guilty in February to 34 counts of fraud and was fined $17 million, the largest criminal fine ever im­posed on a defense contractor. 
*Five T.V.s 

Pleading for his life AP Photo 
A Ugandan prisoner pleads for his life while under guard by Rwandan soldiers in Kigali Wednesday. The man was arrested by Rwandan authorities on charges of being a rebel infiltrator sympathetic to the rebel Rwandese Patriotic Front. 
SoRIN HALL PRESENTS: 
IHE 
102•d ANNUAL s~~l~ (k~~~T sflo\J 
when? FRIDAY, 0cT.l2t" at g: 3 0 o..... 
wh€(<!? THE SoRIN FRoN-:-e'JRCH 
n ho~ rr\UCh ( 


* ALL. ARE \'J(LlOM [ ~ ~ 
r-----------------~
SNEAKERS I 
I $3.00 I I OFF I I Any Large Pizza : 
Excludes all other Discounts 1 

---'111 
Friday, October 12, 1990 The Observer page 7 


Montgomery speaks on American labor unions 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI of a Union. "Their (the workers) tion as a key because "workers "the goal was very simple, a against every kind of odds to News Writer strength comes from standing can not wield effective power seventeen and a half cent per keep it alive." beside each other" said without organization." hour increase for everybody." 
Solidarity, organization, and equality were emphasized by David Montgomery as the keys to labor movements in Thursday's thirteenth annual Joseph P. Molony lecture. 
Montgomery, a distinguished historian in the field of American labor and labor unions, claimed that solidarity is the first step in the formation Montgomery. 
He added that solidarity alone can not accomplish the goals of a labor union. Montgomery elaborated by pointing out that organization helps to establish goals and make use of large numbers of workers. He also added that organization is vital if a strike is to last over an extended period of time. Lastly, Montgomery included organiza-
Just THINK youJre 19 ! H t\P P '1 51 RT H D A '1 JlJ t·lt\TH AN October 13th -Beat A 1 r Force 


Located at the comer of Edison and Ivy across from the tailgate fields (every home game). Fri. 4-10 pm Sat. all day 
Montgomery said equality se­Montgomery also referred to cures the community and pro­the visit eight years ago of six motes a common struggle for Soviet coal mine strikers who common interests. He also talked with members of an added that without equality any American coal miners' union. movement would be hampered Among other impressions, by descension from within. Montgomery mentioned that 
As an example of solidarity, the Soviets were surprised at organization, and equality the American's loyalty to ,the working towards the success of union. Montgomery further a labor movement, Montgomery noted the Soviets' surprise that used the steel worker's strike of "your parents built a union that 1946. The strike was nation­meant so much to you that you wide and as Montgomery stated were ready to strike for a year 
Montgomery expressed a be­lief that labor unions will sur­vive despite "a revival of very traditional anti-union weapons like injunctions, private security forces, and permanent re­placements. These weapons have brutally prolonged battles against Eastern Airlines and Greyhound." Montgomery added that while corporations are finding ways around labor strikes, unions are receiving support from state legislatures. 
Alumni elected to ND board of trustees 
Special to The Observer Conway is a 1966 graduate who earned an M.B.A. from the Two alumni have been elected University of Chicago and has to the University of Notre Dame been on the Advisory Council Board of Trustees. for the College of Arts and 
Robert Conway, a partner Letters since 1987. 
with Goldman, Sachs & Co., He joined Goldman, Sachs in New York City, and J.M. ("Joe") 1970 and recently was Haggar, president and chief ex­managing director of Goldman, ecutive officer of the Haggar Sachs International Corp. in Apparel Company in Dallas, London. He has taught in the Texas, are the new trustees. Columbia University Graduate 
r1i'iil 
~ 
f-
u.s. 31

NORTH 
To order call: (219) 633-5349 (24 hrs.) 
Visa, Mastercard & C.O.D. 
The Game we are all waiting for October 20, 1990 




TAKE NO PRISONERS 
© 1990 Game Day Promotions. Ali"Rights Reserved. Game Day Promotionsand PBM, INC are members of the Knock-off Coalition. Power Base Management, Inc., 2424 Bow Court • Building 8 • South Bend, IN 46628 (219)282-9344 
School of Business. 

Haggar is a 1945 graduate who has been on the Advisory Council for the College of Business Administration since 1978. He has served on the Dallas City Council and is prominent in civic and charita­ble organizations in the city. His brother, Edmond Haggar, Sr., is a trustee emeritus of the University. 
There are 50 trustees of the University, and the chairman is Donald R. Keough, president and chief operating officer of The Coca-Cola Company. 
IBM gives ND record donation 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame has received a gift of $358,339 from the International Business Machines (IBM) Corporation, the largest corporate matching gift in the University's history. The gift results from Notre Dame's enrollment last June in IBM's 5 to 1 equipment option program, under which the con­tributions of eligible IBM em­ployees to the University were matched by gifts from the cor­poration of five times the amount. Monies accumulated by the matching gifts will be used to purchase IBM equip­ment. According to Joseph Sandman, Notre Dame's director of development, "Computing equipment is integral to teach­ing and research. This program provides us an excellent oppor­tunity to address an important priority." 
The IBM gift brings to $2.4 million the total of this year's matching gifts to the University. Last year's total of $2,034,092 placed Notre Dame among only four of the nation's schools to exceed the $2 million mark. 
If what happened on your inside happened on your outside, would you still smoke? 
IAMERICAN
fCANCER
• SOCIETY 


page 8 The Observer Friday, October 12, 1990 
Senate pays U.N. dues 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate voted Thursday to begin paying nearly half a billion dol­lars in past dues to the United Nations withheld in recent years because of congressional opposition to its practices. 
Reflecting an about-face prompted by the U.N.'s spon­sorship of a trade embargo against Iraq, the measure was included as part of a $19.6 bil­lion money bill approved by a 91-7 vote. 
But lawmakers had shown no inclination to go along with it until the U.N.'s sharp response to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August and subsequent taking of American and other foreign hostages. 
In addition to the $93 million in past dues, the bill includes $31 million to cover U.S. ar­rearages for supporting U.N. peacekeeping forces in addition to the $91 million as the American share for their sup­port in the current fiscal year. 
The bill now goes to a confer­ence committee to iron out dif­ferences with a version passed earlier by the House. 
IEJ&..JFIPW ll®~lli IEIIIR~I.B.JJJD£W 

I 
Tightening belt 
President Bush meets with Republican members of the House, including Minority Leader Robert Mitchel, left, and Rep. William Broomfield, R-Mich., in the Cabinet Room Thursday. Congress continues to work toward an $500 million, five-year deficit reduction 




Latin leaders to discuss oil 
CARACAS, Venezuela (AP) ­Eight Latin American presi­dents opened a two-day summit Thursday with talks on the ef­fect oil price hikes from the Persian Gulf crisis have had on the region and on President Bush's proposal to create a free trade zone in the Americas. 
The closed-door sessions were held without ceremony at a downtown Caracas hotel. 
Host President Carlos Andres Perez said a communique would be issued Friday describing "the fundamental agreements that exist among us, and explaining how the political will to integrate our economies has strengthened." 
Nine presidents were to at­tend the conference, but Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori was prevented from leaving his country at the last minute because he lacked con­gressional authorization. First Lady Susana Higuchi de Fujimori was to arrive Thursday evening in his place. 
Presidents attending were Carlos Menem of Argentina, Fernando Collor de Mello of Brazil, Patricio Aylwin of Chile, Cesar Gaviria of Colombia, Rodrigo Borja of Ecuador, Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico, Luis Alberto Lacalle of Uruguay, and Venezuela's Perez. 
The so-called Group of Rio was founded with eight mem­bers, and Chile and Ecuador were accepted as members Thursday. Panama was sus­pended from the group during the government of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. The inclusion of Bolivia and Paraguay was expected to be announced Friday. 
Perez and Argentine Foreign Minister Domingo Cavallo said oil prices and what they called "Latin American security on energy matters" dominated most of Thursday's four-hour session. 
Aylwin on Wednesday sug­
gested the region create a Latin 
American and Caribbean in­
vestment fund with windfall 
profits generated by high priced 
oil and sales of other raw 
materials. He said he would 
raise the idea at the summit. 

ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
ARlHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C. 


Accounting & Finance Majors Arthur Andersen Invites You to Attend 
Public Accounting: The First Few Years 
A panel of new staff people will discuss the transition from campus to the business world. 
Sunday, October 14th-7:00p.m. Lower Level -Center for Continuing Education 
Reception to Follow Casual Dress
•-------------------------------------------------------· 
Friday, October 12, 1990 The Observer page 9 

A PaIestm1an woman raises her arms in mourning at the Temple Mount Wednesday for the 19 Palestinians killed in Monday's clash with Israeli police. The hand prints on the wall of the Dome of the Rock mosque were reportedly made by victims' blood during Monday's fighting. 


N~-~~~-~~o~~~~~-L-~;;~~-1 
NO ROLL LIMIT/ 
SAVE $3.24 112 exp.J, $4.98124 exp.J $8.72138 exp.J off reg. price 
I
1 Large 4x6 Prints. Processed in·store. 1 One coupon oer customer. Not valid with other offers. 1 Expires November 1 , 1990 
: SEARS A AT AMERICA'S
L =~~ ~ PHOTO SHOP NDO -------------------------------~ 
~~FILM ..
~eferred By Those Who Know. ­SEARS at U111vcrs•ty Park r' · L· .vcr Level 
271·6500 



Jews defend holy site, Wall 
JERUSALEM (AP) Thousands of Jews, many car­rying guns, danced at the Western Wall to end the Sukkot festival Thursday, answering a government call to assert con­trol over Judaism's holiest site after bloody riots there. 
"The large crowd gathered here today shows that nothing in the world can break us," Parliament Speaker Dov Shilansky told about 35,000 people squeezed into the cob­blestone plaza in front of the wall. more commonly known in the West as the Wailing Wall. 
ultra-orthodox Jews carrying sacred Torah scrolls stood side by side with less observant countrymen waving Israeli flags. 
Hundreds of riot police. backed by soldiers, were de­ployed at the Wall and the ad­jacent Temple Mount. On Monday, at least 19 Palestinians were killed and 140 wounded when police fired at rioters stoning Jewish worshipers at the site. 
Many Palestinians living in the nearby Moslem Quarter stayed indoors as policemen escorted singing and dancing Jews through the area's narrow alleys to the Wall. Police posted at the gates of the Old City frisked Palestinians, and many were turned away. 
"We will prevent young inciters from reaching the area," said Jerusalem's police commander. Arieh Bibi. 
Many worshipers carried 
submachine guns slung over their shoulders or had pistols tucked into their belts. 
"Thousands of people came in answer to those who stoned us. They should learn that Jerusalem is indivisible," Heligious Affairs Minister Avner Shaki told the crowd. 
In New York City, meanwhile, the U.N. Security Council held consultations to end the stale­mate over criticism of the vio­lence in Jerusalem. But a vote was not expected Thursday. 
Earlier Thursday, police bat­tled Palestinian protesters in several Jerusalem neighbor­hoods. 
Police fired tear gas and rub­ber bullets to disperse about 300 Palestinians who tried to march from the city's Shuafat refugee camp to a major thor­oughfare used by many Israelis. Clashes were also reported in the Issawiyeh neighborhood in east Jerusalem. 
Police fired tear gas to break up a march by about 150 Palestinians to the Temple Mount. "World, listen to us! We are people who will never submit!" the marchers chanted before being blocked by police from entering the compound. 
Inside, several hundred Arabs marched around the Dome of the Rock mosque with outlawed Palestinian flags. They chanted the Moslem battle cry "Allahu Akbar," or God is Great. 
Christian leaders, including the Greek Catholic patriarch of Jerusalem, Lufti Laham, 

cooks just for you .. Delidous food prepared in the Sou them Italian manner. Featuring Fettuccine Alfredo, Manicotti, and Veal Parmagiana. For festive occasions check out Parisi's Italian Style dinners, includes everything but the gondala. 
NEW SUNDA. Y HOURS: 4-9 P.M. 
DINNER 4 P.M.-11 P.M. Closed Mon. Open Sun. til9 


1412 South Bend ANnUe 
~~ 
marched from the Church of the Holy Sepulcher to the Temple Mount to join Moslem clerics in prayer. 
Israeli officials called for the Jewish ra'ly at the Western Wall at the end of the eight-day Sukkot festival. On the final day, Jews carry Torah scrolls in a festival procession. 
Israel's two chief rabbis, Avraham Shapiro and Mordechai Eliyah, had urged Jews to stage the processions in Jerusalem instead of in their hometowns to erase what they called "the great blasphemy" of Jews being stoned at the wall. 
Full-page newspaper ads from the Religious Affairs Ministry called for mass partic­ipation "in view of the wicked attempt to desecrate the joy of our holiday near the remains of our temple." 
The Western Wall is the last remnant of the Jewish Temple destroyed in 70 A.D. On Temple Mount stand two mosques that constitute Islam's third-holiest site. The Moslems say this is where the Prophet Mohammed ascended to heaven. 
More than 1 million of the 1. 7 million Palestinians in the oc­cupied West Bank and Gaza Strip remained under curfew for a third day. 
Palestinians are observing a weeklong strike ordered by un­derground leaders of the 34­month-old uprising to protest the killings. 
In Arab east Jerusalem, Palestinian doctors said medi­cal evidence indicated that Israeli police fired wildly in Monday's riot. 
"There was indiscriminate 
shooting. In one case, we found 
14 bullets in one man," Dr. 
Mustafa Barghouti, a physician 
at east Jerusalem's Mukassed 
Hospital, told reporters. 
Barghouti said that most of the wounded were struck by live ammunition or plastic bullets, which are lethal at close range. 
He said that of the 120 people treated at Mukassed, 32 re­mained hospitalized. Of those, eight were in critical condition, including a 4-year-old boy with a rubber bullet lodged in his brain, he said. 


NOTRE DAME 

GOLF SHOP 
"ON THE CURVE" IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
FOOTBALL WEEKEND SHOP HOURS 
FRIDAY 6:30AM-5:00PM SATURDAY 6:00AM UNTIL ONE HOUR BEFORE GAME SUNDAY 6:00AM-4:00PM 
SHIRTS SWEATERS BALLS UMBRELLAS HEADWEAR JACKETS HEADCOVERS CLUBS EQUIPMENT 
ENJOY FINE GOLF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT WITH EXCLUSIVE NOTRE DAME WGOS 
AVAILABLEONLYATTHENOTREDAMEGOLFSHOP 

COMMUNICATION & THEATRE ~ PRESENTS 
~~TROJAN ~WOMEN 
BY EURIPIDES 
WASHINGTON HALL LABORATORY THEATRE 
THURS.. OCT. 4 8:10PM FRIDAY .. OCT. 5 8:10PM SAT.. OCT. 6 8:10PM SUN .. OCT. 7 3:10PM WED.. OCT. 10 8:10PM THURS.. OCT. 11 8:10PM FRIDAY. OCT. 12 8:10PM SAT.. OCT. 13 8:10PM SUN.. OCT. 14 3:10PM DIRECTOR 
REGINALD BAIN 
SET & LIGHTS KEVIN DREYER 
COSTUMES RICHARD DONNELLY 
STAGE MANAGER TONY Bosco 

TICKETS: $5. $4 STU/SrN CIT. WED THU & SUN AVAILAI\U AT TilE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT LAFORTUNr TICKET Of liCE. MASTERCARD/VISA OROERS CAll 239-8128 

TEAM Michigan _,.· Virginia 
Auburn Tennessee Miami Oklahoma Florida Florida State Notre Dame
' 
I 
1 
!, Nebraska
i. 
f 
RECORD NEXT OPPONENT 
3-1 5-0 3-0-1 3-0-2­3-1 5-0 5-0 4-1 3-1 5-0 

Michigan State 
North Carolina State! 
I 

Vanderbilt 
I 

Florida I 
I 

Kansas Texas Tennessee Auburn (10/20/90) Air Force Missouri 
NO PENALTY FOR CLIPPING! 
Ir--------------------------------------, 
I 
I SUNDAY 
I I 
DOUBLE FEATURE 
I 
I 


I I $5.99 
I Gl't 2small L1ri):inal pi::as with the toppmg of.1our dwirl' ft>r t>nll 55.'N. \'alid Sund;li'S on h. 
! J 

r--------------------------------------,
I I 

I EARLY I WEEK SPECIAL 


$4.99 

Get I large Original pizza wnh rour fal'orite topping for only S-+.99. \'a lid Tuesdays onll'. 
I a 

hptrts 12/31190
: m® 

VaiiCI at partiC•oatmo stores only Nol vall(l wttn any other otters PriCes ~ vary Customer pays sales t.u where ar~~~~ 00Deto:,rvd~~~a~ ~~~~~ tge~f.~~~ fo!e ~~~"even~~ dnvers carry less
1 --------------------------------------~ 

r--------------------------------------,
You've heard of TWIN PEAKS, well Domino's Pizza® is offering OFF PEAKS. 
If you order before-+ pm and/or after 8 pm, you can get I medium Original Pizza with 2 toppings and 2serl'mgs of Coke® for only 57.99. 

Expire> 1213 t/90 

Valid at parttetpatmo stores only Not vahd wlttl any other offers PriCes may vary Customer pays sales Ia• where apphcab~ Delivery areas ltm•ted to tnsure safe dnvmo Our dnvers carry less than S20 00 Our dnvers are not penalized tor lale de~¥enes 
~--------------------------------------~
! 
Call us! Notre Dame 271-0300 lll35~mthllend.\le. 289-0033 8lo
t .\re ,,. 
'" 
---""''I 
Friday, October 12, 1990 The Observer page 11 


Apartheid talks in jeopardy 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (APJ -The African National Congress accused President F.W. de Klerk of negotiating in bad faith Thursday and warned of a renewed armed struggle if peace talks break down. 
De Klerk later denied the alle­gation before leaving for a visit to Britain anct.fortugal. He said the ANC charge appeared timed to coincide with his trip. 
A government minister, meanwhile, criticized an ANC leader's statement that the organization was continuing to recruit fighters for its suspended armed struggle. 
ANC spokesman Sakkie Macozoma told a news confer­ence the government reneged on an agreement to release only a joint statement after Monday's meeting between de Klerk and ANC deputy president Nelson Mandela. 
After the meeting, de Klerk also announced that ANC and other political exiles could begin applying for permission to return to South Africa. He said there were no guarantees indemnity from prosecution would be granted. 
His statement addressed a key ANC demand, that the estimated 20,000 ANC exiles be permitted to come home. 
Macozoma said de Klerk's an-
FOOTBALL PARENTS WEEKEND 
PRESENTS THE SECOND ANNUAL 



DESSERT RECEPTION 
FEATURING  OCTOBER 13, 1990  
GLEE CUB  SOUTH DINING HALL  
JAZZ BAND  8:00 -11:30 P.M.  
ADULTS $2.00  


nouncement pre-empted further work by a government­ANC committee studying the issue. 
"De Klerk and the govern­ment's undermining of efforts to achieve a genuine peace settle­ment places the whole negotia­tions process in jeopardy," Macozoma said. 
He distributed a document Mandela gave de Klerk at the meeting. In it, Mandela warned the ANC would have no choice but to resume its armed struggle if peace talks failed. 
The ANC suspended its armed struggle in August as a condition for the talks on ending apartheid and setting up negotiations on power-sharing between the white minority and black majority. 
"It should be plainly under­stood that if we ever, once again, face a situation in which all constitutional avenues for an advance to democracy are closed, we will have no option but to use other methods," the Mandela document said. "If this is war talk, then I too plead guilty." 
De Klerk told a hastily ar­ranged airport news conference the ANC statements would not derail negotiations. 
"I hope that the leadership of the ANC will also refrain from any act or statement which \Viii

IACCOUNTING SENIORS I 
PLANNING TOTAKE THE MAY 1991 CPA EXAM ARE INVITED TO ATTEND AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING TO DISCUSS 
THE NOTRE DAME CPA REVIEW PROGRAM 
STUDENT DISCOUNT AVAILABLE 
·Registration must be received by October 19 
DETAILS AT MEETING OR CALL 
EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS 
«> 

Room 137 Hayes-Healy 
~TUDENT 

239-5285
IOJIIIIfll 
SPONSORED EVENT 

unnecessarily endanger this 
and will make sure of their 
facts before they make an 
attack on the integrity of the 
government," he said. 
Gerrit Viljoen, the minister of constitutional development, ac­cused the ANC of violating its agreement to suspend the armed struggle by continuing to recruit fighters. He was referring to comments by Chris Hani. head of the ANC's armed wing, that recruitment continued. 
In suspending its armed struggle, the ANC agreed to halt "related activities," Viljoen told a news briefing. 
" 'Related activities' surely must include the recruitment of people for training for armed action, and training and keeping them in camps and having ammunition stores and so on," he said. 
Relations between the white­led government and the ANC, the largest black opposition movement, have been strained by black faction fighting that has killed about 800 people in two months. 
The fighting in black townships around Johannesburg has pitted Xhosas and other blacks linked to the ANC against Zulu sup­porters of the conservative Inkatha movement. 





Viewpoint 
Friday, October 12, 1990 

LETTERS 

Cadets need to face moral dilemmas of combat 
Dear Editor: shipmen, simply because each cers understanding the differ­leave the program, that student nar to incoming freshmen, Recently, an article by Jeffery cadet must face and attempt to ence between self-defense and should not have to leave Notre especial.ly ROTC candidates. By 
D. Long entitled "ROTC answer the ethical dilemmas of genocide is eminently better Dame for financial reasons." offering this class, many 
presence contradicts values of combat. Unfortunately, large than an army guided by sol­Yet the solution advocated by doubting cadets would be able Christians in ND community" numbers of cadets at other col­diers rarely forced to question Mr. Long works against the re­to resolve their ethical dilem­appeared in Viewpoint (The legiate institutions are never their beliefs. sponsibility of signing a com­mas prior to signing the con­Observer, Oct. 4). Within the questioned as to their ethical Realizing the need for aneth­mitment by offering money for tract with the armed services, article, Mr. Long, recognizing beliefs by their universities. ical training encompassing both the declaration of conscientious which occurs the sophomore the fact that "removal of ROTC Each ROTC program integrates the conscientious objectors and objection without service in re­year. from Notre Dame is a practical extensive moral and ethical the cadets accepting turn. The money granted for 
impossibility," submitted two training into the program. The commissions, we offer three conscientious objectors by the In one goal we are sure that proposals which would supply results at Notre Dame , issued proposals which simultaneously University should be accompa­we and Mr. Long would agree; counsel and financial aid to in a Notre Dame Report in refine Mr. Long's goals and nied by time and a half in com­the need for dialogue. Although students requesting 1988, were extremely positive cover a greater spectrum of the munity service or the Peace we hold differing Christian conscientious objector status. showing cadets to posess highly ethical students .. Corps. Hopefully, in the future interpretations in the use of These measures, although focused ethical standards. • the funds would emanate from force, further dialogue at Notre addressing crucial questions, This high rating owes its 1) We agree that Notre Dame the government as is the case in Dame would ensure that fail to completely answer the success to both ROTC training should establish a "professional Germany. We advocate a conscientious objector rights inherent tension between the and Notre Dame. By focusing University-staffed position as greater length of service due to are respected and also provide armed forces and differing all the energy driving the part of Campus Ministry for the the fact that a contract was for the moral education of 
I Christian interpretations of the ethical debate to conscientious counseling of ROTC students." broken, and that military ser­future officers. ( t use of force, because Long's objection we lose sight of the Yet by ending his proposal with vice is inherently more danger­goals only face the issue of Universities greater suggestions for counseling for ous. Michael Kilander t allowing conscientious responsibility and risk those, "who become conscien­Patrick Murphy objectors to leave the services. minimalizing the ethical tious objectors," Mr. Long limits 3) The University should offer Flanner Hall 
f 
An encompassing proposal standard maintained in the the scope of the University's a "War, Law and Ethics" semi-Oct. 9, 1990 must address both the concerns ROTC programs. Instead, we responsibility to train moral
f 
of ROTC cadets with ethical should focus a greater amount cadets. We need a counseling f doubts and, more importantly, of energy toward the cadets institution that will not only aid 
ROTC program at ND 
the ethical awareness of cadets receiving commisions in order conscientious objectors butf remaining in the armed forces. to insure that we continue to also, more importantly, help the We feel that if one accepts produce cadets of the highest remaining cadets in two areas. 

values freedom, ethics 
f that the U.S. military will not moral character. A cadet at First, counseling should also disappear from the campus in Notre Dame cannot and should be available to cadets who feel Dear Editor: perfect. and we have to protect
f the near future, then it must not be able to escape the their Christian beliefs and I would like to address the ourselves and others who value debate surrounding Christian starry-eyed lad who challenged freedom. Our strong military
become the re&ponsibility of ROTC commitments are com­Notre Dame to instill a high interpretations on the use of patible, but nevertheless pos­the presence of the ROTC r-resence has helped to bring moral standard among the force. As a community, we need sess doubts concerning certain programs on Notre Dame's anout the freedom presently
I 
I cadets commissioned. Barring to not only condone this debate practices in the use of force. campus (The Observer, Oct. 4). enjoyed by the people of 
I 
ROTC from ND would not ren­but add to its ability to help Second, the institution should I'd like to ask him a few eastern Europe. der the military obsolete, but resolve ethical doubts while attempt to both promote and questions: only place the training of future simultaneously raising the measure the ethical awareness Do you believe that the My guess is that the reason 
ethical conscientiousness of University administration didn't for ROTC programs at Notre
military leaders in less compe­of the remaining cadets who 
carefully consider his very
tent hands. Therefore, we be­cadets remaining in the have found a compromise be­Dame lies somewhere between 
concerns about Notre Dame's the value placed on freedom
lieve ROTC and Notre Dame are service. tween the Sermon on the Mount not incompatible and any at­Without debate Notre Dame and the need for self defense. Christian character when the and a concern for where our fu­
campus ROTC programs were
tempt to remove ROTC would could produce officers ignorant By simply limiting counseling to ture military leaders will come be irresponsible. in the Christian value of re­conscientious objectors, the conceived? from. Personally, I'd prefer 
At Notre Dame, we have an straint in combat and the sheer University would avoid the re­What exactly does he think generals who are educated in a enviable opportunity to influ­immorality of utilitarianism. sponsibility of shaping the protects his rights to freely religious environment where ence the moral character of the Without restraint, a war could moral character of the majority express himself and to attend a ethics and people are accorded armed forces of this country. slip beyond the realm of de­of students in ROTC. Catholic University? value. There exists no better place to fense into the catastrophe of 2) We also agree that, "If a What is his definition of a Jerry Rooney train ROTC cadets and mid-genocide. An army led by offi-student in ROTC decides to naive idealist? Off-Campus
Unfortunately, the world isn't Oct. 4. 1990 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Au grown-ups were once children, although few of them remember it.' 
Saint-Exupery 

Viewpoint
Friday, October 12, 1990 page 13 
ROTC students show spirituality through camaraderie 
By Maria Anglade 
On Friday's Channel 28 News, some students were protesting that the ROTC program is in conflict with promotion of spiritual values, that ROTC stu­d~nts should take ethics courses and that there should be alternatives to students on ROTC scholarships who after joining the program find it morally impossible to continue the program but would other­wise not be able to afford a Notre Dame education. 
As a sophomore I joined the Army ROTC program voluntar­ily. The experience was worth paying for. I believe that the people who were protesting are somewhat ignorant about what really goes on within the ROTC programs at this University. 
While in the program, we (in the Army) had field training ex­ercises which lasted for the length of a weekend. However, on Sunday, we had mass, right in the middle of the FTX, in our battle dress uniforms, muddy, wet, cold, tired, but we listened. It was an ecumenical service and we all were united in spirit. 
But the truth of the matter is that we were all united in spirit each time we met as a battal­ion, regardless of whether we were listening to a priest, or to our leaders. The kind of bond­ing that occurs in the battalion is very much like that of a fam­ily. Many of my good friends are the family I made in that one year in the battalion. And if it were not for the spirit that we provided each other, we would not have had as much fun and getting through the days would have been a lot more difficult. I do not think this is at all inconsistent with the camaraderie that our Lord wishes we demonstrate with each other. 
As a soldier, peace was al­ways on my mind. Not only worldly peace, but inner peace. The thought of being willing to "march into hell for a heavenly cause," to be willing to die for our country and the people we love, was always pressing. But thinking about death, I thought a lot about living. I pondered about the life that I had led and the life that I wanted to live, about morality, about love, about beliefs. Soldiers have to 
Peace alternatives merit financial aid 
also typically Catholic: the greater good is that young men
By Rev. Stephen P. 
and women are given exposureNewton. C.S.C. to Catholic teaching, especially 
Last week the University related to the military. We are dedicated the new ROTC better off militarily if we have building. ROTC is a military leadership trained by us than if program of scholarship for they were trained by someone University students who are else with someone else's admitted to Notre Dame but values. would be unable to attend In the next three years, unless there were some such according to University financial aid program available administrators, any person to them. accepted into the University 
will have sufficient financial 
To help these men and aid available to be able to women to be all they can be, afford to attend. No one will they are offered full or partial have to decline admission for tuition, in return for which they financial reasons. That's great. pledge a certain period of time Now, the University might in service to their country well begin the next step in the through one or another of the process of financial aid: make branches of the military. it possible for every student 
The dedication of the ROTC admitted to accept the offer of building makes this an ideal admission without having to time to reflect on that program become part of an organization and on certain alternatives to that has "no interest 
it. whatsoever" in the issues of 
As you are probably aware, faith of the sponsoring there were certain other institution. activities planned last week because of the feast of Saint There are alternatives Francis of Assisi, the patron of possible. One of them is called 
peace. A concert with peace­GIFT (Graduates Interviewing maker Judy Gorman was held For Tomorrow) and is designed at Washington Hall. A to effect a savings on the cost Eucharistic service, light meal of corporate interviews. These and peace vigil were held to savings can be used in a honor the spirit and concerns scholarship fund. of Saint Francis and peace. Other possibilities could be 
When invited to take part in created. No one raises money the vigil for peace, the ROTC better than the University. We commandant replied, "ROTC could certainly raise money to has no interest whatsoever in further our values by endowing that cause." more scholarships for peace 
That comment more than studies or as replacements for anything else highlights ROTC dependence. questions asked at Notre Dame for many decades: Why is The men and women I know Notre Dame so heavily invested who are involved in ROTC are in ROTC? Why does this wonderful people. They are not University, professing Catholic warmongers. They are in no beliefs and promulgating way evil; many reflect the best Catholic teachings on war and our student body has to offer. peace, also have the largest Most of them, too, are not in percentage of its student body ROTC because of any of any private university in the commitment to it, but because country involved in ROTC? Isn't of their c.ommitment to a Notre this the height of playing all Dame education. Most, if they sides of an issue (which some had an alternative that meshed accuse Notre Dame of doing with their own value system, better than anyone else?) Can would take it. one play all sides of an issue Let's let them. 
and remain true to anything? Rev. Stephen P. Newton is the Are there no alternatives? Director of Special Projects in The answer typically given is the Office ofCampus Ministry. 
make decisions every day, and other activities, the temptation thought about before making believe me, as leaders and fol­to quit is sometimes in the back my decision were "Do I want to lowers soldiers are always of our minds. But with faith in spend four years after college questioning whether orders are God and in ourselves, we move in active duty?" "Do I want to consistent with their own val­on. spend eight years in the ues. As far as having "counseling" reserves?" "Do I want an 
With regard to these stu­for "insecure" soldiers, there is educational delay?" "Do I really dents' desire that ROTC stu­plenty around, especially at this want this?" "Do I want to be dents be required to take ethics University. The abundance of free to be able to do what I courses, I am very surprised spiritual leaders, such as our want with my life?" and somewhat angered. It's not priests and teachers and even In reflecting upon that last as if these students get the two our own friends, eliminates any question I thought to myself "I philosophy and two theology sort of extra counseling these am free to do what I want." requirements waived. It is not protesting students might by And so are all of us. That is as if these students do not have thinking of. Regardless of what is so great about this the ability to "think" on their whether or not soldiers are country. And that's why it's own. Our morality is shaped seen in a church or battlefield, worth defending. I had the way before we get to Notre they are spiritual by nature of freedom to decide that the Dame, and I am firm in my the pressures and challenges Army was not for me. But it opinion that the morals of most placed before their great spirit. could well be for others, and Notre Dame students, by the In the beginning of my junior not necessarily for the wrong mere fact that they want to year, I withdrew from the ROTC reasons either. come to this school, are very program. Not acquiring a Notre Dame is the kind of healthy. scholarship was not the reason university that is unequalled by 
I quit, for I never applied for others. What is it about it? Why 
As far as the promotion of one. In the light that I was do people think we are so spiritual values, I have very lit­thinking of the life I wanted to friendly? Why do we respect tle doubt that any ROTC stu­live, I had to make some deci­each other? Why do people feel dent could get by without a lit­sions, and among them was so welcome here? Why do peo­tle guidance of help from leaving the program. I cried as ple love Notre Dame? It's the above. Because ROTC is time my favorite ROTC professor and spirit here, and the least place consuming and sometimes the battalion commander where it is lacking is in the physically challenging attempted to convince me to· ROTC programs. considering we are also stay. I knew of the great loss Maria is a senior science involved in academics and that I had chosen. Things I preprofessional/ CAPPmajor. 

LETTERS 

Responsible military is necessary if service compatible with Church 
Dear Editor: Peace, "All those who enter the at a Catholic university. Would I must take great exception to military service in loyalty to we not be better off with such some of the points raised in their country should look upon ethical officers, or with those Jeffery D. Long's letter "ROTC themselves as the custodians of lacking in instruction on the presence contradicts values of the security and freedom of Catholic teaching on war as Christians in ND community" their fellow countrymen; and manifested in the Bishops' (The Observer, Oct. 4). when they carry out their duty Pastoral? I feel more secure in A main thrust of the letter is properly, they are contributing my choice to serve when I read dire'cted toward a counseling to the maintenance of peace." the Pastoral, but I pray each program for conscientious ob­It can be inferred from this day for peace. It is not only the jectors "including, but not lim­that military service and right of a ROTC cadet to do so, ited to, those in ROTC." It must obedience to Church and Christ but I feel it is also a responsi­
be noted, however, that stu­are not necessarily mutually bility. dents who apply for scholarship exclusive. aid in ROTC are asked nu­Kris Hull merous times if they are con­No one should despise war Stanford Hall 
scientious objectors. If one dis­more than a soldier, whose Oct. 4, 1990 honestly asserts he is not an very life hangs in the balance objector, I assume it is for the whenever conflicts arise. We Dedication scholarship aid which undoubt­are taught in ROTC to hope edly plays a large part in his and pray that we will never 
creates divine

ability to attend Notre Dame. have to put our training to use 
However, if one willfully lies in combat. We are the only to be able to attend Notre defenders of our country and displeasure Dame, it is neither the fault of countrymen's interests at 
Dear Editor: 

ROTC or Notre Dame; the home and abroad. The very At 9 a.m. on Oct. 6, the 
blame lies squarely on the ability of Mr. Long to dissent dedication ceremony of the 
shoulders of the student who with our presence is a new ROTC building took placetestament to the military's suc­
misrepresented himself. at the Pasquerilla Center. Just 
cess in defending the
Attending Notre Dame is not over six hours later, the final 
worth accepting a scholarship Constitution, which allows him whistle blew on the first Irish 
contrary to the dictates of con­freedom of expression. This is home defeat in many years.science; if one does not believe not to be taken lightly, nor is Surely it cannot be that these he can conscientiously fight in a the means that may be needed two tragic events are un­
to secure this freedom. 
possible future conflict, he related. Can we, in all honesty,should never have signed up rule out the possibility of divine 
for a ROTC scholarship. Until the threat of war has displeasure?
A secondary idea of Mr. been eliminated from this 
Long's article is that ROTC is earth, Notre Dame has a re­Allan Crosbie inconsistent with the Church's sponsibility to produce the type 
David Pritchard 

teachings. According to the of officer instructed in the 
Off-Campus

Bishop's Pastoral on War and ethics that can only be taught 
Oct. 7. 1990 

!I 
~ 
( 
f : f 'f 
·( 

OCTOBER 12 -l'L,. 

.weekend calendar i
1 
~ 
: 


MUSIC 
The Generators, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. XYZ Affair, Bridget's, 10 p.m. 
Champion, WMRD, 9:30 p.m. 
THEATRE 
The Trojan Women, Laboratory Theatre, Washington Hall, 
8:10p.m. Tickets $5. · Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up? Washington Hall, 8:1 0 p.m. Tickets $3 students $5 general 
admission. 
EVENTS 
Casino Night, Stepan Center, 7:30-10:30 p.m. Sorln Talent Show, Sarin Hall front porch, 9:30 p.m. 


sa 
ay 
MUSIC 
First Frlday,Aiumni-Senior Club, 9:30p.m. Bad Apple, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m. Champion, WMRD, 9:30 p.m. Phoenix, Bridget's, 10 p.m. 
I

THEATRE 
The Trojan Women, Laboratory Theatre, Washington Hall,j ' 8:10p.m. Tickets $5. ' 
Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up? Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. Tickets $3 students $5 general admission. 
EVENTS Dessert Reception, featuring Notre Dame Jazz Band and Glee Club, South Dining Hall, 8 -11 :30 p.m. 
I~
S~y-Y 
THEATRE 
The Trojan Women, Laboratory Theatre, Washington Hall; 
3:10 p.m. Tickets $4. ~ 
if\Js 
FRIDAY "The Little Mermaid, 'Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
"Story of Women,':.\nnenburg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30p.m. 
SATURDAY "The Little Mermald,'Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
"Story of Women,':.\nnenburg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "Narrow Margin," 1:45, 3:40, 5:30, 7:30 & 9:40p.m. "Exorcist Ill," 2:30,4:45,7 & 9:15p.m. "Jungle Book," 2:15p.m. "Mo' Better Blues,"4:30, 7 & 9:30p.m. 

Vito's, the home of inexpensive, yet quality hair care. 

ers a 
BY DAVE KENNEDY 
accent writer 

Vito's Barber Shop 

H 
ey, nice haircut! How much? Five Bucks? Holy-Great 
Deal! 
Such was my reaction when I visited Vito's Barber Shop re­cently. Remarkably, the low price is not the most exciting aspect about this particular establishment. When customers walk into that tiny shop on 1523 Lincolnway West, they will feel like they are walking into the Barber Shop Away· From Home . 
Vito's is about as average as a barbershop can get-except for one thing. Tony Rulli. the owner of Vito's since 1945, loves Notre Dame and loves to cut the hair of anyone associated with Notre Dame. He not only loves doing business with Domers, but he tries to make his barbershop a 
BY BILL ROSEMANN 
Accent Writer 

G 
rimace: lovable plush eggplant or creature of the Nether-realm? 
This ancient 
mystery, which has tortured 
men for millennia. demands an 
answer. But when I entered the 
McDonalds on 1519 North 
Ironwood Drive, I was over­
come by the unexpected discov­
ery of the splendor of the 
plethora of Notre Dame para­
phernalia gloriously displayed. 
Lining the walls were photos of such Notre Dame legends as The Four Horsemen, Ara Parseghian, Elmore Layden, and Knute Rockne. A tingle ran up my spine as I ate two McDLT's under their stoic gaze. 
Raising my head in praise, I saw a magnificent "University of Notre Dame" neon sign, flickering into eternity. Surely, this was no ordinary fast food 
BY MELISSA COMER 
accent writer 

A
s the Notre Dame campus is inundated with enthusiastic fans football weekend after football weekend, there can be little doubt as to how far some will go to show their support. But there are few that go to the extent that Pat's Colonial Pub has. 
"People come in here hot knowing exactly what to expect, and I think that they're a little bit surprised," said manager Tina Freeman. And indeed, there is an element of surprise. This is far from the traditional colonial pub. 
Located ofT the beaten path at 901 W 4th Street in Mishawaka, Pat's Colonial Pub is opened for lunch and dinner weekly. Reservations for home football weekends are taken beginning in June for the coming season. 
A dark tavern and restaurant, Pat's Colonial Pub was origi­nally opened by Pat and Rose Perri as a bar in 1969. The business has gradually ex­panded from there. When Pat became better friends with Notre Dame's George Kelly, the football motif was added, giving the pub its own unique look. 
establishment. This was a 
shrine to God and His favorite 
university. 

What upstanding individual was behind this tribute? I re­quested a moment of the man­ager's time, and although the restaurant was busy, she was delighted to speak with a Notre Dame student. Introducing her­self as Victoria Gusterhines, she spun a tale of loyalty and a commitment to excellence. 
She explained that the store, built 15 years ago, was con­tracted along with our fine uni­versity. On game days, the store goes whole-hog, with hundreds of blue and gold balloons and the exploits of Lou's boys tuned in on the radio. 
"McDonalds is number one and on top of things," explained Gusterhines, "that's why we're with Notre Dame." 
Victoria urged all students to visit the store. With a student 1.0., soft drinks are free with an 
And that look continues today, with Notre Dame paraphenalia on every wall. On one wall, the interlocking ND is displayed in yellow and blue lights. Not far over, there is a lit up Golden Dome. 
Another wall displays a sign listing the former NO football players that are currently on teams in the NFL. There is a special place dedicated to the current team where every player has his individual picture hung surrounding Lou Holtz's photo. 
And if all of this is not enough, the time is told by spe­cially designed clocks. The glasses and the clocks are changed annually to display the new football schedule, and the glasses are sold as souvenirs. 
But apart from the decora­tions, there is still much more Notre Dame spirit to be wit­nessed at Pat's Colonial Pub. As friendly waitresses serve their customers, they sport tradi­tional Notre Dame sweatshirts and colors. 
On a busy football weekend, they may even take the time to help cheer the team on, alter­nately raising trays marked GO and IRISH. It seems that quite a time is had by all. According to one waitress, "The more people order of a sandwich. On Sunday mornings, there is a Notre Dame student-only special of all-you-can-eat hotcakes. This establishment obviously appreciates the plight of impoverished, yet honest Catholic students. 
With a genuine smile of affec­tion, Victoria added. "Our workers and customers love the Irish." 
I ventured forth to record the reactions of various eaters to this wonderment. Jerry Martells, a loyal NO fan since the 40s , was equally fond of the decorum. 
"There's a McDonalds closer to my house. but I still come here," beamed the proud pa­tron. 
One family refused to yield a statement. Perhaps they were either Burger King employees or Miami fans. 
see McD I page 16 

we have, the more fun we have." 
The waitresses need not help with the cheering though. The Notre Dame Fight Song, played every 15 minutes, does more than enough to excite the cus­tomers. Amidst the clapping and the singing along, it is a wonder that people even have the time or inclination to eat. 
But to miss the food would be to miss the best part of Pat's Pub. The food is great. A salad comes with each meal, followed by a small cone of sorbet to clean the palate. The entree that follows is wonderful. It's worth the attention, but don't forget to clap along to the Fight Song as you eat! 
While the original owner Pat is no longer around, the new owner, local Maury Cocquyt, has managed to keep the unique atmosphere of Pat's Colonial Pub alive. With the help of Pat's daughter, Tina Freeman, as manager, the pub maintains its sense of tradition, both locally and with Notre Dame, that makes it special. 
As Tina expresses, "I hope that, like Notre Dame, the tra­dition will continue under new ownership." Pat's Colonial Pub is steeped in a tradition of fun times and good people, and it would be a tragedy to lose that, 
Iris 

&t'fl"l' 
This glowing ne memorabilia on 

While enjoying a while singing thE 
' J • • •.•. I I i 'I 
. • • • • •••••••••••••••••••••••• -•• -•••• J
i'l 
b
""-~--------------------­

page 15 
ear 


IEDV place filled with the Spirit of came into Vito's around ten 
Notre Dame. 
years ago. Moose also donated Tony shows this spirit by an autographed picture of Lou 
hanging many pieces of memo­Holtz, now appropriately lo­ice haircut! rabilia on the walls of his shop. cated directly in the center of much? Five This first began when a friend the Notre Dame football pin­? Holy-Great of his, Mike Laatz, a retired wheel. 
restaurant owner, gave him Tony's association with Notre 
Baetion when I several Notre Dame penants Dame originates with his deci­
rber Shop re-which he had collected for dis­sion to try to attract students to 
ably, the low playing in his business. 
replace the retired customers most exciting Tony then started forming a 
he was losing to winter 
lis particular pinwheel out of the penants and vacations in Florida. There was hen customers decided to include all of the a large number of these retired tiny shop on teams on the Notre Dame foot­customers because of the fact LY West, they ball schedule. He then comple­that Vito's has been in opera­y are walking mented the pinwheel by adding tion since 1927, when Tony's 
Courtesy of Jim Stynes 
r Shop Away· things like posters and auto­father, Vito Rulli, opened the 
The members of Notre Dame's First Friday pose for their 1969 album. From left to right are Bob Ewan, Norm 
graphed pictures. shop for business. 
Zeller, Jim Stynes, Jack Prendergast and Andy Wallace.
LS average as a One of the pieces of memora­Tony felt that the large supply {et-exrept for bilia most precious to Tony is of students would be able to ulli. the owner the autographed picture of bolster his number of cus­t-5, loves Notre Moose Krause, given to the tomers. He has not regretted to cut the hair store by the former all-Ameri­this decision to cater to Notre ,ted with Notre can and athletic director him­Dame students because he gen­
First Friday
tly loves doing self. Moose and Tony have de­erally loves being around them. 
omers. but he veloped a close friendship, dat­
. barbershop a ing back to when Moose first see VITO'S I page 16 
performs again 
T 
BY ROBYN SIMMONS would already have cards if we Prendergast was the only mem­Assistant Accent Editor changed our name to First ber of the band who was unable Friday, because there was a to attend. "The 40th birthday party was 
Irish McDonalds 
he boys are back in whole stack of them piled up the first time we had seen eachtown. there." said Stynes. The band 
other in many, many years,"
The members of would put up the "First Friday" First Friday, one of posters all around campus and said Wallace. 
Notre Dame's most write in with black marker The following year, all of the popular campus bands in the when and where the band was band members got together for late 60s, may not be boys any playing. the Stanford-Notre Dame game, more, but their youthful enthu­"I played professionally for 20 and First Friday performed at siasm has brought them back to years...First Friday was as the Sports Page, a bar located Notre Dame from both coasts good a band as there was in the just outside of Palo Alto, for their first performance on 60s." said Prendergast, who California. campus since May 15, 1970. recently left the music business "We had one rehearsal and 
Tomorrow night at 9:30 p.m. to become a Psychotherapist. we played Saturday night. We Notre Dame alumni Bob Ewan, "The level of musicianship for had a lot of fun, it was a rous­Jack Prendergast, Jim Stynes, our age was unbelievable," ing success," said Zeller, "That's Andy Wallace and Norm Zeller Prendergast added, "We had really one of the factors for us will bring back the sounds of some rare moments in the getting together again." the 60s to the Alumni-Senior band." "I think we sounded better Club. First Friday performed on than we ever did when we 
First Friday reigned as one of and off-campus, in addition to played in the 60s," said Notre Dame's premiere rock opening for bigger bands pass­Wallace, "We were all kind of bands from 1967 to 1970. ing through the area. The band shocked about how good it Ewan was the lead singer of the would usually play on the steps sounded." band, with Stynes on the drums of Sorin Hall before football Although all of the band and Zeller on lead guitar. games, and it also performed at members are excited about re­Wallace and Prendergast alter­the "Sunshine Festival" in turning to Notre Dame for their nated between the bass and Stepan Center at the height of first on-campus concert in 20 keyboards. Wallace also sang the Flower Power era. years, the reunion holds a
Pat's Colonial Pub 
and Prendergast occasionally "We did a concert at special significance for certain played saxophone. Washington Hall . . . The members of the band. 
Zell.er, now a programming acoustics in there were sensa­Ewan, now a Director of supervisor in data processing at tional," said Wallace, who Employee Relations Operations Pacific-Volt Information mixes and produces records on for Philip Morris, is the only Systems, cited Cream, Jimi a freelance basis, "We were member of the band to have a Hendrix and the Doors as some definitely on the rowdy side, but son or daughter attending of the 60s musicians that what can I say, it was the 60s." Notre Dame. His son Jesse is a influenced the band's material. "{Norm) was a fabulous lead freshman at the University. 
"Basically we were doing guitarist," said Stynes, "He was The trip to Notre Dame is cover versions of a lot of mate­exceptional. He was one of the especially important to rial from that era," said Zeller, reasons why we had a big fol­Prendergast, who has not been "Everything had a First Friday lowing." on campus in almost 20 years. flavor even though they were First Friday was so successful "I really love Notre Dame; l re­covers...The band was heavily that the band recorded a self­ally love the experience I had influenced by the blues." titled album in 1969 and had a there. No matter how far out I 
"I think there was a very good contract with James Brown's got, the place was still there rapport among the band original record label. "We had taking care of me," he said, members. We all understood about 500 copies that were sold "Even though Notre Dame had each other very well," said in the bookstore at Saint Mary's their own party line, there was Stynes, now an investment and Notre Dame," said Ewan, always room for protest." banker and partner at Morgan­"From that album we got a The last time Wallace visited Stanley. "Because we played so contract to record an album Notre Dame was 1973. "I'm much together the band could with King Records in Nashville, looking forward to performing be creative musically and we el­Tennessee. It wasn't six months because I love to perform," he evated our music to a higher after we cut that album that said, "I'm also looking forward level." King Records went out of to seeing the campus because I 
The band members came up business, so it never went out." haven't seen it for so long." with the name "First Friday" When Stynes, Zeller and The First Friday reunion may during one of their rehearsals Wallace finished their educa­be quite different than other in the basement of Dillon Hall. tion at Notre Dame in 1970, it reunions on campus, but the There they found a stack of marked the end of First Friday. friendship ties remain the posters used to remind students Over the years, the band mem­same. "It's great to get together to attend the First Friday ser­bers kept in touch with each with people," said Ewan, vices. other, but they did not perform "They're great friends and you 
"We didn't have a lot of together until 1988 at Ewan's never forget the people you money so we figured that we 40th birthday party. knew at Notre Dame." 



Friday, October 12, 1990
page 16 The Observer 
The love that dares not speak its name 
I have a closet full of records, tapes, and COs that I've used on my children's radio program in the last fifteen years. Every year. I shop restlessly, looking for fresh presentations of old stories, and sprightlier versions of familiar songs the children love. That way I can retire scratched records and worn­out tapes that have outlived their usefulness. 
By the time you reach my age, you start to notice that your mind is like a closet where you keep stuff stored. My head feels like a memory bank of ideas that have been recycled so often. they belong in the trash like a broken record. 
This week, when so much at­
tention has been paid to 
"National Coming Out Day," my 
earliest recollection of gay stu­
dents at Notre Dame surfaced, 
leaving me surprised with the 
remembrance of sadness I had 
long lost sight of. Imagine an 
anonymous caller on the tele­
phone arranging to go to con­
fession; the caller, however, has 
no wish to be seen by the priest 
face to face. 
"So could you please, Father, wait in the confessional until I come? Then, afterwards. could you wait, Father, until I have left the confessional well ahead of you, so that I can remain unknown?" This scenario, with variation, took place so often, I stopped being surprised when the phone calls came. 
By 1971, when gays started showing up in my room, singly or in clusters. wanting to talk, I looked at them as students in trouble, in need of my help; and so I smothered them with ad­vice that was both wise and 
VITO'S 
Continued from page 14 
Even when he could not cut hair after a shoulder operation last year, he still stayed around the shop to talk to the customers while his uncle, Rosario Rulli, or one of his many cousins took over his hair cutting duties. 
Tony runs his shop on a walk­in basis with no appointments and serves male, female, young or old. He or another member of the Rulli family will always be ready to give a good, cheap, no frills haircut, and also to talk about any aspect of Notre Dame sports. So, next time you need a basic hair cut right away. take the short drive down route 30 to Lincolnway West and walk into the barbershop that likes to think of itself as Notre Dame's own off campus barbershop. 
McD 
Continued from page 14 
Preparing to depart, I noticed the splendid McDonald Land playground outside. Mesmerized by the full size Grimace (including an exposed rib cage which one could climb inside), the urgency of my orig­inal quest thundered upon me. Victoria quickly explained that Grimace was simply a "made up character." 
Was this the truth or a messy cover up of an evil too powerful to be silenced? I left into the wet night, admiring the at­tempt of the golden arches to imitate the golden dome, yet troubled by a ominous mystery which remained unanswered. 
whom you are trying to break God sent the AIDS epidemic to 
the ice. Christians have a punish the love that dares not
Father Robert Griffin 
charming ritual of taming speak its name. If Christians 
which is called love. Its rules want to take that tack, which I Letters to a Lonely God start with, "Love is kind ... it don't believe for a minute, thinketh no evil...it endureth all maybe they should say God sent 
things ... " AIDS to punish all of us for not 
Christian. The gays, listening neys, Who arranges lives. has Love doesn't approach a allowing homoerotic a place in politely. never argued much. shown him the map with the stranger, who may not be per­the sun. 
They just waited for an open­less-travelled road on it. It fect, with a head full of pre­As a priest. I think conserva­ing, hoping, I suppose, that I could look to your son like the conceived ideas, most of them tively; and I have no wish to would be quiet long enough to road to Calvary, if he sees you unflattering, and say, "This is make a splash as a born-again listen to them. breaking you heart over the what you must do, or avoid do­liberal. I'm too old to feel 
Winston Churchill defined a route he's travelling on." ing, if you want me to tolerate threatened by lifestyles I don't fanatic as one who won't "In His will is our you." understand. I no longer feel in­change the subject and can't peace,"wrote Dante. Mothers As a priest, I did this, every spired to tell Catholic gays how change his mind. Did l sound, must make a separate peace time I came on strong as a to put their passions to for many years, like a fanatic in with the will of God, when they lawmaker to gays. I think Christian uses, and I can't tell my rejection of gay rights? have lads leaded home on the Christian arrogance must be an heterosexuals the rules for the 
All I can answer is that my less-travelled road. It's sepa­almost unforgivable sin against bedroom without getting mind was well stocked, like a rate, because they must make the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of laughed at. But. later on when closet jammed full of children's their peace with God early, and love. they tell me, "We make mis­stories, with arguments on different terms, than other There is a love which poets takes," I can get the last persuading gays to change mothers, for their own peace of call, "the Love that dares not laugh-if I feel like laughing­their lifestyle. There did I go mind. speak its name." It must be of when I tell them, "I told you wrong? I was as one-sided as a Does this sound like senti­God, since all love is from God. so." long-playing record, oblivious mentality? I'd sing "Danny Rome, which tests all kinds of The gay underground. from of everything but the voice on Boy" to the mother of Hitler if I love to find out their worth, all I hear. is a vipers' tangle. the sound-track. thought Irish songs would dry hasn't denied that homoerotic Christianity should give the 
her tears. Gay sons don't need love has the heart of God as its Love that dares not speak its 
Last year, when I was a little pity any more than they need wellspring; if it were otherwise name a shot at redemption and wiser, a woman called me from rejection. Have you noticed that it couldn't exist. a leg up to the Son. Young gay Oklahoma, asking how she the squirrels you meet on the It can be as chaste as monk's Catholics at Notre Dame don't could help her homosexual son. quads, begging for snacks, love. It can be as kind as a ask you to share their life in l said, "Maybe the question is. come very close, if you stay still brother's love. It can be as some decadent sub-culture. how can he help you?" for them; and they become courageous and as generous as They ask for a share in the life 
Frost has a poem that ends, quite tame, if you stay still a soldier's Jove, when he lays of the Church so that they can "Two roads diverged in a wood, often enough. I down his life for his friend. It save their souls, along with the and I-II took the one less trav­can be as enduring as a rest of us who have quarrels eled by, /And that has made all Sometimes, you meet children spouse's love. It can be with our religion. the difference." I said, or other shy people in need of Christlike and Catholic and holy Maybe the women of Notre "Consider that you son has taming. You don't tame chil­enough to save souls. when it's Dame should make it fashion­taken the less-travelled road; dren when you insist on offer­offered to God as an act of able to take a homosexual to for him, it must seem like the ing them unwelcomed hugs; as prayer. lunch. That way, they could quickest way-the only way a matter of fact, you don't show the males on campus that home. He needs love for the tame children at all. The trick Yet it dares not speak its they have nothing to fear but journey, which he relies on you is to stay patient, until they name. because Christians are fear itself, and can stop being to give him. Why would you have tamed you. afraid of it; therefore. it is con­afraid to look their brothers in refuse him unconditional Jove, Taming has many rituals demned to stay undergrown, the face, finding out they're no when you remember how much which have social value that where it sickens in darkness. threat to anyone who believes he loves you? The God of jour-you can use with anyone with Some Christians tell you that in the Golden Rule. 
We can't be
Join 
everywhere, let us know if something

The Observer, 
newsworthy happens. Call The Observer
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 
239-5303 


THE AMERICAN HEART ASSCI:IATION MEMORIAL PRCERAM® 
~~ 
American Heart Association 


This space provided as a public service. 
Friday, October 12, 1990 page 17
The Observer 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 P-~· at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFgrtune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Samt. Marys off1ce, Haggar College Center. Deadline :or next-day classifieds is a p.m. All class1f1eds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, 1ncludmg spaces.
Classifieds 
1 need 9, yes 9 Miami Ga's 

LOST:FRESHWATER PEARL AIR FORCE STUD TICK FOR SALE For Sale -MIAMI TICKET
MAC 512K with BOOk drive $400,
[ NOTICES BRACELET WITH GOLD BEADS. X1511 Leave Name, Number. Ofter. Karen x4806
IBM PC, 512K, 2 Drives, Amdek 
284-4419 -----------------------­
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL monitor $425. Call after 4:30 277­$$$$$ PROUD SMC POP NEEDS 3 
TYPING AVAILABLE TERRI239-5812 NEED MIAMI & PSU GA'S AND
1761.

287-4082 PSU STUD. CALL 1511 2 Airlorce GA's Good seats. Sect. TIX TO NO/MIAMI GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL WIL-217/223-9609.
15. Call288-4183 Leave name.

I LOST MY HP28C CALCULATOR O'HARE to NWRK number and offer.
NOW OPEN! BED & BREAKFAST ON FRIDAY THE 28TH OR SO. SELLING STUD TIX
Sun 10/21 7pm $100 NEED MIAMI GA'S!!!!!!!!!!!

Rooms available for all NID HELP I I'M AN ENGINEER AND I'M to all home games 
Dave#t100 

events. IDEAL for family/ FLUNKING WITHOUT MY up to 4 adj. MIAMI 1 AF Stu Tix 4 sale!! JUST WON THE LOTTERY----­
fans/ business associates CALCULATOR. MY NAME (day) 239-8232 Call Nicole x2853 from out-of-town. Minutes "STAGER" IS ON IT. REWARD$$. (night) 273-1905
I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS!!!
from.N/0 & toll road exit #83. CALL DOt·! 283-2173. 273-1722
MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME 
219-273-0388/l-800-669-I NEED 1 STUD. & 3 GA TIX FOR
GAME AND PRICE 273-1364 
0388 We have tickets to all AIR FORCE. CALL SHANNON @ PLEASE CALL--I'M DESPERATEWANTED HOME games ! ! 271-9260. 
CALL CATHY AT 273-9624

GRADUATE STUDENTS call Estevan or Ritchie HEY Air Force Sucks I!!
JUNIORS. SENIORS: Give !! ST. LOUIS !! 
"GRAD CLUB" @2275 ...so you don't want to go I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S 
hundreds of employers 1 way SB to StL or rnd trip 
me neither... but my siblings Xt639(including Ameritrust. AT&T, Bank nonstop tix 4 SALE 
THIS FRIDAY, OCT. 12 MI-AM-I in need of Miami do... I NEED GA's $$$$$ 
One, the Federal Reserve, lv Oct 21 
4:30 PM -7:00 PM tix. stud. & GA's x4274 Jim 287-0889
Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, (rtn Oct 28) need one or two PENN STATE WILSON COMMONS' LOUNGE Procter & Gamble. and Random Dan 2385 or 4655 GAs. Call monica at 283-4021. 
ALL GRAD STUDENTS INVITED!! THIS IS A CATHOLIC 
House) access to your resume 
UNIVERSITY -I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI
through Targeted Recruiting FOR SALE 1 Miami Stud Tix G RADUA T ESTUD ENTS! HELP THE NEEDY ­
ROSIE4025Services (TRS). Only $10 before call X 1346 Need two tickets to NO vs. USCNEED 2 miami GAs & 1 stud Oct. 15th. For your free enrollment game, student or GA's. Call Betsy

HAVE MERCY!!I FOR SALE at x3899.
kit plus a free Corporate Profiles 
St. Edward's Hall Players MIKI 284-4386 
Magazine. describing opportunites Presents 
2 AIR FORCE GA'Sat the nation's leading employers, Selling 2 Miami GAs. Leave 

best offer, call x4500 Wealthy Alumni call 1-800-TRS-JOBS. name and offer 272-4541 
Desparately Need PLEASE! 277-4838 
ARSENIC AND OLD LACE I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's! 
For Sale Miami Tix OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. 2MiamiGA's Call Tim x2015
HOUSE FOR SALE: 3 BDRM., 1 A Comedy by 
BATH, FINISHED BASEMENT Joseph Kesselring 
Summer, Yr., round, All Countries, $$$$$$$$$$$$
1 Miami StudentWITH POOL TABLE. CIA, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. 

1 Air Force 2 Miami Stud TixGARAGE+ CARPORT. WALK TO 

January 24-27. 1991 For Sale Call Jim at 2298 NEED MIAMI STUD. TIX
NO. $56,900. CALL LOIS NEEDED: Ride to/from Dallas Best Offer OHLSON. COLDWELL BANKER. 
fur break. Diane x5468 
General meeting for all those John x1808 Two(2) MIAMI GA's for SALE CALLX3224
259-6317 FOR APPT. interested in acting, directing, call277-5745 between 
GOING TO DAYTON AFTER THE
producing, and tech will be held '*****FOR SALE****** 9:00am -5:00pm. I Need PSU GA's
MIAMI GAME? PLEASE LET ME
Sunday, Oct. 14 in Washington One MIAMI STUD Leave best offer on machine. Call Beth 288-0597 
COME! MARY X2671 [ TICKETS
Hallat7pm. Best offer by 10/17 Call Tom xt808 4 SALE: 2 MIAMI STUD. TIX & NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S 
Needed: Tickets to NO-Pitt game. 
If you are unable to attend, please 1 PENN ST. X 2620, MARIE 
Call Maria 3829
call Dennis (1513) or John (1648) CALL X3797 
Need $$$?Sell 

FOR SALE: 2 married stud. tixf need Miami Tickets Bad!!!!! 
Typing your ga's to all AF, Miami, Penn St. I NEED 1 AIRFORCE G.A. FOR
Got parents coming in $ no object.
Pickup & Delivery home games. Best Ofter 287-5012 LITTLE BROTHER COMING UP. NEE01-2GA-MIAMI Xt488
Call John 277-7007 
277-7406 Call tom x1597. CALL 2336 WED. OR THU. I NEED GA'S TO ALL HOME Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at 
WANTED: 
1NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME Bandages. Lots of bandages. I'm
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING GAMES BRIAN 2049 283-1818 and leave a message. 
GAMES.272-6306

237-1949 HELP! I NEED 2 AF GA'S
going to need them after the ·-------------­
Selling!!! 2 50yd. Air Force GA's, 5 CALL JOHN X4141 Need 2 GA's and 2 STUDS for Observer staff finishes wiping my ~E~~~~-~~~-Miami GA. Will pay 
JUSTSAYNOI Air Force STUD, & 3 Miami STUD MONEY IS NO OBJECT · Miami. Call Bob at 233-8959. 
face all over Stepan field. If you $$$$$$$$!Call Matt X1055 ____________________________________ (
Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's EJ x1053 
can help, call Rob at 239-7668. 
Books, corner of NO ave. & SELLING ********50 YD. LINE******* Howard. 233-2342 Need 4 GA's for AIR FORCE. Call INDULGE YOURSELF !!!!
EARN $2500 AND FREE SPRING Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or 
Julia X3505 2 (together) stud tix MIAMI STUDENTBREAK TRIPS TO BAHAMAS, GA Please call Matt X3024 
Professional Word Processing TIXFORSALE
JAMACIA AS PART-TIME 
Services. When SPEED. FOR SALE: Miami & AF STUD Miami or Air Force LV. OFFER CHRIS #4817 
CAMPUS REP FOR SPRING 
Need Miami GAs & Studs pair, AF GA. Best Ofter by ••••••••so YD. LINE****•••FORMAT, STYLE, and ACCURAC'v BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786. 
Mike 273-1537 

are vital ... let THE HOME OFFICE Fri.x3253. Call Jim w~h BEST OFFER help. Call 234-3891, ask for Kristi. 271-0333 NEED AIR FORCE G.A.
NEED RIDE TO NEW JERSEY 
Need: I NEED AIR FORCE TICKETS! MIKE Xt626 4 BREAK-EILEEN 284-4253 
Lost and Found CALL TOM @ X 2259. I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GAS AND ONE STUD. CALL KRISTEN 2 MIAMI STUDS FOR SALE. 
Need a ride from L.l. to N.D. TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES! 
TO HIGHEST BIDDER. 

I lost a navy blue windbreaker 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR SALE X2873
after Oct. break? Call X3725. 
271-9552

at Club 231ast Wednesday. If CALL CARRIE AT 4049
CALL JOE X 1688 

you found it. please call me 3 STUD AIRFORCE TKTS.
Monday-Thursday I need MIAMI TICKETS!!! GA'S or

I HAVE 2 SETS OF AIR FORCE SEC. 30. BEST OFFER. CALL at 289-3467. Ask for John. 
HELPI!! 3:30-6:30 
G.A.'S AT THE 50 YD. LINE. X4900. Students. If you can help please RED*'*RED'**RED'''RED*** GREATSEATS! CALLFRANKAT call Kevin at 1409 
I need a ride home to MPLS/STP 
X3646. LEAVE NAME AND OFFER Have stud tix for Miami and Penn jacket lost at stanford barn after the Miami game and a ride NO Alum needs 3 GA tix for Penn IF NOT HOME State. Call-287-6947. I need 4 Air Force GA's == Calldance ... also back to NO the next weekend. Will St. Call Jeff Walsh collect (602) Holly at X4492 RED ground grafic piece from RED pay $$$. Please call Jason at 257-5971, 
car in D-21ot...PRETTY PLEASE NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET NEED 2GA'S FOR PENN ST.
1397. II am-8pm. M-F. 
I need 4 Air Force GAs! 

WITH SUGAR ON TOP, RETURN Call x2453 KELLY X5076 Parents and Sibs never beenTHEM I!! X-4096 
For Rent I NEED FOUR (4) PENN STATE 
NEEDED: NEED $$ TO IMPRESS JEWISH to NO. Call Amy 284-5461ask for PAULA. 
GA'S FOR MY LONG-LOST UNCLE 
3 Air Force stud. tix HTH! 
~-----------------------------------­
STUDENT HOUSING FOR 1991-92 AND COUSINS. IF YOU CAN HELP 
I NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S !!! CALL SCHOOL YEAR. CALL CHUCK MY NOV. 16 REUNION, CALL 
Call4431 

BUY MY MIAMI STUD! JOE x1307 !!! 
GLORE 232-1776. JEFF 0. AT X 1068. THANKS
\ LOST/FOUND 
I NEED MIAMI TIX MARYX5072 !!!!! HELP 1!!!1 
Large 3000 Sq. Ft. home in quiet HELP! NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S 
CALL JOHN 258-0809 NEED 4 PENN STATE GAs Farminton Sq. 4 to 5 bedrooms. 3 AND 1 OR 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR ALUMNUS NEEDS 5 MIAMI GA'S CALL ANN at x4872 A 14KT GOLD BRACELET. 1/2 baths. 2 family rooms with POOR RELATIVES! 
I need GA's for Miami, Penn ST FOR FAMILY. Call collect at GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. plenty of room. Professors or CALL KEVIN Xt589 and Navy. WILL PAY WELL. I also night 601-362-2339 or 4 USC TIX FOR SALE. $50/EA OR CALL ANDREA X3829 mature students welcome. 272­will buy GA's for any other game X3140 for questions. WILL TRADE FOR 1 OR 2 MIAMI 
8939. NO GRAD and wife from Calif. 
too. Call Jason atx3413 or x3419 TIX. CALL JEFF (714) 646-8274. 
NEED 2 Tickets to N.D. Miami 2 Air Force Married Student Tix ForLOST: A "Berenger" watch with a an attractive studio in lovely old Game. Call Collect (818) 591­
Uncle Morris from Iowa is coming Sale 289-8554 AIR FORCE GA TIX. 
black band, a black face, and gold mansion near NO ,255 plus deposit 2625. 
for the Miami game and ..surprise REASONABLE. 516-437-9784 Roman numerals. I lost it ;please call 2888595 d 
he has no ticket. Call Kara if you FOR SALE: 2 AF MARRIED ST AFTER6PM. 
somewhere between Farley and PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED. 
have a Miami GA for Uncle Morris TIX. DAY: 283-1985 the Center for Social Concerns on For Rent: Brand-new corner suite NEED 5 EITHER STUD. OR GA at x2761. EVE: 287-7752 MIKE I NeEd MiAmi StUd Monday morning. If found, in the Student Government office EITHER SINGLE OR IN A BLOCK. 
Call ToBy 4010 PLEASE call Michelle x3879. The and slightly-used telephone line WILLING TO PAY THE BIG 

My little sister is coming ALL THE 2 MIAMI STUD TIX FOR SALE watch was a gift and is very, very paid for out of student fees. BUCKS!! CALL JEFF @ #4352 WAY FROM ALASKA to see the CALL JACKIE OR PAULA AT important to me. Available after Friday. Dial F-R-E-0 Penn St game. Call Lisa or Kara at 277-9406 NE€0 PENN STATE STUD TIXfor further information. 
x2761 if you have any Penn St. HOMER X1384Lost: Pink, rimless eyeglasses in Need 2 MIAMI GA'S-call John 
student tickets to sell. ROUND-TRIP AMERICAN blue Oakley :.oft cc:se. If found. STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK x1220 AIRLINES TICKET (EXP. 12/14/90 2 miami stud tix for sale contact Jim at x-1716. AVAILABLE NOW YO! HELP Swans & Me AND NOT GOOD T.G. WEEK) call kim at 277-7 489 271-1833 AFTER 8PM Need 2 GA's for Penn St HAVE 2 Navy GAs & AF STUs BEST OFFER. 259-7820.
call Ryan x1048 

NEED 2Pen St STU &
LOST: Black Vuarnet sunglasses TIRED OF O'HARA-GRACE? 
Tennessee= BUY-SELL-TRADE NEED TICKETS TO THE HELP ME!!!! I NEED 1 AIR FORCEin North Dining Hall Fri. 6:30p.m. If MOVE INTO MY APTS 2ND 2 STANFD & AIR FORCE TIX FOR MIKE x1183 OBSERVER-STUDENT STUDENT TICKET. If you have found, please call Rene 277-9468. BEDROOM AT TURTLE CREEK SALE 272-6459 GOVERNMENT FALL FOOTBALL one. please call Michelle x3879. 
Reward offered. CALLJANE 271-1920 
need miami GAs please call x3735 MASSACRE. AM WILLING TO PAY BIG $$$ TO SEE DARLING SON. I NEED 2 AF GAs 
MIAMI TIX FOR SALE 
Need 4 NO-Air Force Tickets Call Mario Pasin, anytime, collect. CALL THERESA@3617 
FOR SALE
LOST: A GOLD AND SILVER Call Greg or Diana 272-2984 
SEIKO WATCH between Niewland DAVE X3024 I Have a pile o' money and I I NEED MIAMI AND PITT TIX and Hesburgh Lib. 
FOR SALE: 1 AF stud desperately need Miami GA's. Call CALL PA'f 234-8608 
10/8/90 from 2:00-3:00 p.m. FOR SALE: 
Nick x2355 Hugh at 233-6740.
IREWARD. please call'2969 FOR SALE: 12-inch Black & White Tickets for all remaining home WANTED: 2 G.A TICKETS FOR Portable TV!!! Excellent condition. games. 
I Need 2 Penn St. GAs or studs TENN. GAME. (404) 923-4707. 
Call x1208 and leave a message 
I have 2 GREAT Penn St. GA's. LOST CAMERA on field at Stanford for Paul. Will take best offer Call Joe Xt688 Looking to trade for Miami GA's. MAKE A DREAM COME TRUE! Game: Film has great sentimental before midnight, Oct. 12th. Mon.-Thurs. 3:30-6:30 PM Call Hugh at 233-6740. 
$$$ Nick x2355$$$ 
Divorced Alum Dad in Houston has 

value! PLEASE call Adrienne ------------------------------··-----­
plane, car, and hotel. Need Miami 

x4215 76 AUDI FOX; perfect body & NEED AIR FORCE, MIAMI, 
Have 1 Miami lix INEED TWO PENN ST GA's! Tix for GAME on son's 12th mach. cond.; new paint, tires PENN STATE TICKETS Bob2384 PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE! My Birthday; PLEASE HELP; Only LOST: 14 k gold rope chain brakes, clutch, NC, 32 MPG. CALL 234-7644 parents will pay substancial need 2; Call Collect (713) 524-7604 bracelet on Stepan Football $1250/offer. Call234-1196, 8­
amounts of cash. Cali Marc at after 7. field. GREAT Sentimental 10:00 P.M. x1809.
Have 1 Miami tix 

Value. lffound, please I NEED AIR FORCE G.A.s 
Bob2384 I AM SELLING AF STUD TIX'CALL 
contact Cara at x3847. CALLX3501 
I want 1 Air Force GA 284-5121 2 MIDFIELD SEATS-ND-USC. 
Call Brian at 1485. HELP!!: I lost my DETEX around (213) 273-9400, ROSLYN. 4 sale:Miami & AF tixs. 4905 
FOR SALE: 2 Miami married 

St. Joseph Lake Thursday morning 
SELLING 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME stud. tix #489-9660 (10/4). PLEASE call if you've Selling 2 PSU GAs leave name Need Air Force Tix. Students or 
--call LuAnn X4766 BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S found it. x4362 and offer 272-4541 G.A.s Call Paul at 1755 CALL 273-1364 
see CLASS I page 18 

The Observer Friday, October 12, 1990
page 18 
Oakland's four-game sweep gives it more time to prepare 
OAKLAND. Calif. (AP) -Like the Oakland Athletics need another edge. 
Not only have the A's steam­rolled past the Boston Red Sox in the American League play­offs, now they have a week to prepare for the first game of the World Series. 
Rest up, freshen the pitchers, soothe the bumps and bruises accumulated over the last seven months, and scrutinize those scouting reports on the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Cincinnati Reds. 
"I can just imagine the A's sitting back on their couches this weekend. relaxing and waiting to see who they're go­ing to play," said Pittsburgh's Barry Bonds after the Pirates forced a sixth game in the National League playoffs. 
"Meanwhile, we're out here still going at each other's throats." 
While the Oakland Coliseum was being spruced up on Thursday for the World Series -logos were being painted on the grass down the first-and third-base lines -the Athletics took a day off before resuming their drive for a second consec­utive championship. 
The A's will be the first 'team since the 1976-78 New York Yankees to play in the World Series three straight years. 
"I think we've felt it stronger (about winning) this time," 


Oaklan~ A's fans hold _up b~oom~ at Oakland Coliseum Tuesday, anticipating Oakland'sA~~weep of 
Boston 1n the AL champ1onsh1p senes. 
pitcher Rick Honeycutt said. "I "I am real concerned (about jured players over healthy ones, think all year we've used the Canseco's condition)," manager and Mike Gallego did an excel­problems surrounding the Tony La Russa said after Game lent job filling in for Weiss the earthquake to motivate us. This 4. " ... Hopefully, we can get him last two playoff games. year, we felt we were going to physically ready for the World Maybe the rest will invigorate go out, win it and enjoy it. Series." the Oakland bats. The A's be­
"Last year, it was tough get­Dave Henderson's knee will came the first team since the ting any pleasure out of win­get that much stronger. He did 1919 Cincinnati Reds to win a ning because there were catas­not start the first two games of postseason series without hit­trophes all around us." the playoffs because La Russa ting a home run. 
Over the next six days, Jose still had concerns about it. Canseco's hand will get better. Walt Weiss, who was knocked The A's had six days off after Maybe his back, too. Canseco out of playoffs with a sprained their 1988 playoff sweep of the was pulled from Game 4 after left knee in Game 2, will have Red Sox and they subsequently striking out in the fifth inning his status re-evaluated before lost as heavy favorites in the· with pain in the middle finger the start of the World Series World Series. They were beaten of his right hand. next Tuesday night in the in five games by the Los 
The back has been bothering National League park. Angeles Dodgers. him almost all season. He had a Don't count on seeing Weiss, cortisone shot with two weeks however. La Hussa is always Don't expect a repeat of that left in the regul8r season. extremely hesitant to play in-letdown. 
Need AIR FORCE GAs and stud I don't need any tickets JEN QUINN: Happy Birthday!!! ATTENTION JEN SMITH: tix. Call Darrell at 283-3302. (Heh, heh) Have a blast! And . . . GO Yes you, Jen; didja think I'd forget 
Class 
CRAZY!!! Love ya, your big 21st!!??!! Don't OD on HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO: I need three Miami GAs and one Cowgirl chocolate or Dr. Seu~s book gifts! GRETCHEN
continued from page 17 
Stud tix call Tim at 1416 Love ya much. JESSICK!!!!!!!!I!!II!!!!!I!!! GOING TO OR THROUGH Your favorite gymnast Yes, Yes, Yes I do KNOXVILLE, TN -OCT. BRK · Hey JEN: Pass out on any (O.K., so I'm a day late; sue me)FOR SALE Have 2 stu tixs AFTER MIAMI?? I NEED A couches lately???? Nothing like 
2 Miami student tix. Just for you RIDE;WILL SHARE$$ CALL going out on a WEDNESDAY night MICHELLE: Hope you're feeling TODAY IS GRETCHEN JESSICK'S Best offer by 10/14. 2AF, 2MIAMI too X1511 and getting Butt-wasted to boot. better soon. We all miss you and 20TH BIRTHDAY!!!!!!! leave Message x4988 255-5283 Your so wild, I wish I could be just we're pulling for you. Keep smiling GRETCHEN, 
FREE GIFT!! 

like you..... and remember SINCE YOUR TEENAGE DAYS FOR SALE: One MIAMI Student ESTEE LAUDER AT HUDSONS PMA! ARE OVER, ISN'T IT TIME YOU Have 1 Air Force student ticket-­UNIVERSITY PARK MALL· 
ticket. Call Clem or John THOUGHT ABOUT SETTLING reasonable price. (x1177) with best offer. MISHAWAKA. FREE GIFT WITH Looking for a tall, handsome Falling bed and emergency room at [)()IM\J? Ask for Shubie *4761 $12.50 PURCHASE NOW THRU male for companionship and 3a.m. FOR SALE: 2 AF stud & 1 AF OCT. 20. IF YOU CAN'T GET TO fun! CaiiJeff x1836 Long, rainy walks from Marion to But the question is, DESPARATE: I need MIAMI tix! m. stud. Resonable price THE MALL BE SURE TO CALL (JN, you deserve this! Luv,GB) see me in my p.j.s. "Really-don't HOW MANY JOHN'S WILL IT TAKE 
........................
Call Tom X 3697 COSMETICS 271-6132 WE OFFER wake her up!" 
BEFORE YOU FIND THE RIGHT Will pay $$$!1--Kristi x4231. UPS DELIVERY. BEAT Candlelight dinner.... and candles ONE??????????????? Who's kidding who? I NEED Tix for MIAMI!! Alberto, Carol afterward. Air Force BADLY. GAs or Studs. TaniayMari To times like these and many more Have an awesome birthday, but I NEED 8 PENN ST. GA's AND Call Dan 289-0002 to come-don't get drunk at a "social
Drummer looking to join a band. BIENVENIDOS A N.D. 
Open to any type of music. If @283-2704 interested call Rob: 233-7440. Ruben Ramirez 
ALLI HAVE IS$$$ CALL TIM Jim does NOT rule! gathering" and warm too many 
I need 4 Penn St. GA's. I will pay men's laps because they might lots of money for them, and will Esperamos que todo te vaya bien You are the Best! "Beeboo" Crist, think you are trying to "hook up" NEED 2 MIAMI GA give you my first-born as well. Flo «LONG ISLAND BUS» alia en el Oriente. Saludos, LA We love you! and we all know that you're a 
#2790 x16!l6. Seats going fast! Call now to CRIA! Johnny, Stephen, Patrick, Timmy, "flower of Mary and wish to keep reserve spot on "the bus from "B" and John Adams. 
your virtue intact." 

FOR SALE: TWO MIAMI AND 1 AIR HELL"! Joni 1839,Janice 2993 FORCE STUD TIX. CALL KEVIN AT I need 4 Penn St. GA's. I will pay & get$ in by 10/16! BOUNTIFUL BASKETS Need 1 Miami GA Seriously though, have fun this X1409 lots of money for them, and will Baskets of Gifts for all occasions. Call Kevin X1477 weekend. No throats allowed at 
give you my first-born as well. Flo Box of goodies necessary for mid­our parties this weekend. We will SELLING ALL STUD TIX-BEST x1696. MARY GARINO IN D.C. semester. BUTTONS!!! drag you out if it KILLS us (and it OFFER-EILEEN 284-4253 1. Be good 2 doz. choco. chip cookies BUTTONS!!! 
may)!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! FRIDAY OCTOBER 12 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
2. If you can't be good, be 2 large muffins Who's got the BUTTONS??? 
4 SALE: 3 MIAMI STUD TIX HAVE STUD AIR FORCE!! careful 4 fruit Be sure to have Gretchen shotgun BEST OFFER-273-9088 I just want to get rid of it! 3. If you can't be careful, California mix -sesame mix Oh where, Oh where can the a beer with you this cheap just $20 call 273·9469 name it after me Cheese balls BUTTONS be found? weekend!!!!!!!!!! A GOOD REASON FOR LIVING -2 gum, 2 candy bars Oh where, Oh where can they ND FOOTBALL! NEED 9 GA TIX ANDI KELLY COYLA O'CONNOR $19 · free delivery be?!? FOR MIAMI AND 5 FOR AIR &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& I really wanted to give you Locally 272-9776 FORCE.1-262-4990. CALL NOW. HEY! I HAVE ONE AIR FORCE guys a personal to embarass 1-800-373-9716. HERE THEY ARE!!! GA. I KNOW SOMEONE WANTS the heck out of you, but I WEVE GOT 'EM!!! 
sdgf 1 MIAMI Stud Tix for sale IT. CALL MIKE AT 1788. know that paybacks are ... '*'HAPPY BIRTHDAY'** Parents' Football Weekend Make Offer &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& not fun. So pretend I put Noelle and Melissa, hot safari BUTTONS Valentines Shari x3781 something in here for you, Farley babes! 2B loves you!!!!!! will be available at these locations Need MIAMI stud tix & GAs. and think how embarrassed And remember on your birthday ... this weekend: 
--Lat. Info Desk Need Miami student tix. badly I --Glee Club/Stud. Gov't/Jazz Call Paul at x1755 For Sale: 1 Miami stud. HELP II! Need a ride to Cleveland Band Dessert Reception 
Bo x1726 for October break. HEISMAN HERBIE --"Casino Night" Sale 4 A-F & 4 Miami stud Will help pay for gas and tolls. will be available to autograph his --Alumni Hospitality Center x1290 I need 2 Miami GA's !!!!!!!!!! and Call Kathie X40451!1 special limited-edition souvenir •• and they're FREE!!!** 
1 Miami student ticket, call poster after The Observer I need 2 or 3 MIAMI GA's!! Allison, 2732 Happy Birthday to the Soehnlen massacres Student Government call Kathleen @ 4081 House of Iron!!! on Stepan field this Friday. KARIN GRACE IS THE ANTI· 
SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN Love, the 3 Mothers. Observer fans: come out and ELVIS! Miami Tix 4 Sale support your favorite paper· Air Force GA's = $$$ iff Call Dalys x4244 CARA ECKMAN, LISA producers as they annihilate the THEODORE'S J (dial) 287-0889 & (talk) JIM Don't Miss It! GUNSOREK, MARIA BLOHM, paper-pushers. Come to Theodore's this 1n;;;1~ for $8.99 1 KERRY CLAIR, JOY HARRIS, P.S. We hear ROB PASIN has a weekend and dance to the 
Call Darrell at 283-3302. you would have been. *''"GOND!!!!".. 
save over $2.50 I 
1 pair Air Force, Miami, & KEARA IRVINE, LUKE L YTELL, really cute butt. tunes of your favorite DJs: 
I Pidt ••r two C.>UnnCt Sondwlcl-.o. I Penn St. for sale NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S JENNIFER McCARTER, ANNE Friday -Joe Watson 1 twaGardenS.I.ods,plus)"'UU'chci..,otf 273-9349 McCARTHY, KELLY McHUGH, Saturday-John Yang 1 fr<ndo Fries or Onion K1np ond ~ J
$$$$ X·2601 $$$$ NEXT WEEK: 
Mi.ni-<MJnda-

JOY MUELLER, TONY 
1 e~iration date ·10/21

1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET PAGANELLLI, CHRISSIE ROSSI, LANCELOT FOR SALE DANNIKA SIMPSON, MARIO PHOENIX Sundae ·-------1 CALL MARY X1727 SIGUENZA AND JEAN-PHILIPPE RETURNS... 
PERSONALS 
THOLE-Your company is Saturday night at BRIDGET'S 
I 
99t Buy any size sundae and I
We are selling two MIAMI student requested this Sunday, October It's Parent's Weekend-
receive a second one of the
tickets next to each other. Call hiag 14 at the Ad Design meeting to be Bring your Mon and Dad!!! 
same size for 9941'

NOW with best offer--4321 or held at the Observer office. See No crusty DJ's-just live, sweaty 4354. dave glenn does dishes you then. Love. Amy. YO,FROGGY! rock 'n' roll!!! 
I

...._.:.:~~~~~.!.10121 1 


-------------------------~~-~-~ 
Scoreboard page 19
Friday, October 12, 1990 


NFL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
AL Champ.ionship Series 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE BASEBALLEast 
Gamfi!,'':;1tthletics 9, Red Sox 1
American league
w L T Pet. PF PA 
CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Released Bill 
Buffalo 4 1 0 .800 130 99 
Schroeder. catcher. Purchased the contracts of 
W~:~!p~rt LP: Andersen
Miami 4 1 0 .800 108 73 
Cri& Cron, infielder, and Mark Davis. outfielder.
Indianapolis 2 3 0 .400 81 108 
from Edmonton of the Pacific Coast League; and 
N.Y. Jets 2 3 0 .400 104 109 
David Martinez. p~cher. from Midland of the Texas 
New England 1 4 0 .200 80 152 League. Assigned Ron Tingley, catcher, to Edmonton. 
Geiit~:: ~=~r~ox 1
Cenlrlll 
DETROIT TIGERs-Agreed to terms w~h Wah Cincinnati 4 1 0 .800 137 105 
Terrell. pitcher. on a one-year contract. 
Cleveland 2 3 0 .400 78 114 
KANSAS CITY ROYALs-Named Pat Dobson Houston 2 3 0 .400 98 108 
pitching coach. Rehired Adrian Garrell. third base 
Pittsburgh 2 3 0 .400 68 84 coach; Bob Schaefer. first base coach; and Glenn Ezell, bullpen coach. 
Weal 
Notional League 
Ga;~, 3~:!~~etic~Jli~
LA Raiders 4 1 0 .800 99 73 
LOS ANGELES DODGERs-Promoted Jay
Kansas City 3 2 0 .600 117 71 
Lucas. assistant director of publicity, to director of 
Denver 2 3 0 .400 124 127 publicitySeattle 2 3 0 .400 108 104 
ST. LOUIS CARDINALs-Named Mark Ca.John 
San Diego 1 4 0 .200 75 105 
Game 4: Athleticsi·lli,~e~'\~~ 1
manager of Louisville of the American Association. 
SAN DIEGO PADRES-Declined to exercise 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
1991 contract option of Eric Show, p~cher. WP: Stewart J.dltli:lemenJ\,
East ·==:~=m~~r=::=:==·:·:·=··-· =:=;iii;;;;::_...·.···=· w L T Pet. PF PA 
BASKETBALL
N.Y. Giants 4 0 0 1.000 106 47 Notional Basketball Aaaociation Washington 3 1 0 .750 10t 51 
DETROIT PISTONS-Released Nathan Buntin 
Dallas 2 3 0 .400 70 t02 
and Paris McCurdy, forwards; James Caner. guard; 
Philadelphia 1 3 0 .250 91 95 and Earl Jones, center. 
PLAYOFF SCHEDULES 
Phoenix 1 3 0 .250 40 1t8 
HOSUTON ROCKETS-Signed Dave Jamerson. guard, to a lour-year contract. 
RESULTS
Central 
PHILADELPHIA 76ERS-Released Luther Burks. Chicago 4 1 0 .BOO 104 66 Notional League Championship Series
Greg "Boo" Harvey and Carlton McKinney. guards; 
TafT4la Bay 3 2 0 . 600 108 110 Thursday, Oct 4
and Mario Butler and Dean Knebel. forwards . Detroit 2 3 0 .400 t17 t26 SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Agreed to terms with Pittsburgh 4. Cincinnati 3 
Green Bay 2 3 0 .400 89 120 
Dwayne Schintzius. center. Wedneedlty, October 10 Friday. Oct. 5 
Minnesota 1 4 0 .200 1t6 103 
UTAH JAZZ-Released Brei! Vroman. center. Cincinnati 2. Pittsburgh 1
WOMEN'S SOCCER del. Wisconsin-Milwaukee. and Nate Johnston. forward. Monday. Oct. 8 
3·0 Continental Basketball Association Cincinnati 6. Pittsburgh 3 
Weal 
San Francisco 4 0 0 1.000 82 59 
CEDAR RAPIDS SILVER BULLETs-Signed thlndey, October 11 Tuesday. Oct. 9 Atlanta 2 2 0 .500 102 94 Ken Green and Carl Mitchell. forwards. BASEBALL del. Air Force, 8-2 Cincinnati 5, Pittsburgh 3 
LA Rams 1 3 0 .250 111 t11 
Wednesday, Oct. 10 New Orleans 1 3 0 .250 70 80 
Pittsburgh 3, Cincinnati 2, Cincy eads serieS 3-2 

FOOTBALL 
Friday, Oct. 12 Sunday's Games National Football League 
DE:TROIT LIONS-Placed Eddie Murray. kicker, Pittsburgh (Smith) at Cincy (Jackson). 8:27p.m. Detroit 34, Minnesota 27 
on injured reserve. Signed Rich Karl is, placekicker. Saturday, Oct. 13 Indianapolis 23, Kansas City 19 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Released Amod Field. SPORTS CALENDAR Pittsburgh at Cincinnati, 8:27p.m.. Hnecessary Atlanta 28, New Orleans 27 
w'1de receiver. from their practice team. 
Miami 20, New York Jets 16 
World League ol American Football WORLD SERIES P~tsburgh 36, San Diego 14 
WLAF-Named Larry Wansley coordinator of Tuesday. Oct. 16 . San Francisco 24, Houston 21 secur~y and counseling services; Les Miller Oakland at National League chafT4liOn, 8:32 p.m. 
Frldoy, October 12 .

Seanle 33, New England 20 Wednesday. Oct. 17
coordinator. scouting combine and draft; Mi<e 
BASEBALL vs. Air Force. 8:30 at Coveleskl F1eld
Dallas t4, Tarrpa Bay 10 Oakland at NL, 8:29 p.m. 
Wade assistant director of information. 
Women's Cross-Country at Indiana Inter· Clncinnali 34, Los Angeles Rams 31, OT Friday. Oct. 19colleglates. 4:00p.m.
Chicago 27, Green Bay t3 NL at Oakland. 8:32 p.m. 
HOCKEY WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL vs. Indiana. 7:30p.m. at
Buffalo 38, Los Angeles Raiders 24 Saturday, Oct. 20 
Notional Hockey league J.A.C.C.
OPEN DATE: New York Giants, Philadelphia, Phoenix. Washington NL at Oakland. 8:29p.m. 
DETROIT RED WINGS-Sent Dean Monon, Monday's Game Sunday, Oct. 21
delenseman, to San Diego of the International Satunilly, October 13Cleveland 30, Denver 29 NL at Oakland. 8:29p.m.• Hnecessary
Hockey League. FOOTBALL vs. Air Force. 12:10 p.m. at Rockne Tuesday, Oct 23Stadium
Sunday's Games Oakland at NL, 8:29p.m.. Hnecessary
SOCCER RUGBY vs. Kalamazoo, approx.IO a.m. at Stepan 
San Francisco at Atlanta, t p.m. Wednesday. Oct. 24 
Major Soccer League Field
Cincinnati at Houston, 1 p.m. Oakland at NL, 8:29p.m.. Hnecessary
KANSAS CITY COMETS-Waived Ed Anibal, WOMEN'S SOCCER vs. Nonhwestern. 6:00.p.m. 
Detroit a1 Kansas C~y. 1 p.m. 
defender. 
Cleveland at New Orleans, 1 p.m. 
ST. LOUIS STORM-Agreed to terms with Slobo Sunday, October 14San Diego at New York Jets. 1 p.m. 
llijevski, goaltender; Dan Donigan, forward; and 
WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL vs. Ohio State. 2:00p.m.
Green Bay at Tampa Bay. t p.m. 
Bobo Lucie. midfielder. 
atJAC.C.
P~tsburgh at Denver. 4 p.m. BASEBABBLE
CREW at Head of !he Elk. St. Joseph's River, Seattle at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. 
COLLEGE ElkhartDallas at Phoenix, 4 p.m. 
ARIZONA STATE-Announced that Shane New York Giants at Washington. 4 p.m. 
SCOREBOARD 
Collins. defensive tackle, will miss the rest of the Los Angeles Rams at Chicago, 7:30p.m. 
Pittsburgh at Cincinnati (Game 6 of NL . 

season w~h a knee injury. 
playoffs. 8:27p.m. EDT). P~tsburgh's Zane Smnh OPEN DATE: Buffalo. Indianapolis. Miami, New England 
GANNON-Named Len Lombardo men's 
(Smith 12·9) faces Cincinnati's Danny Jackson (6· Morday's Game assistant basketball coach. 
6). Cincinnati leads the series 3·2. 
Minnesota at Philadelphia, 9 p.m. 
STATS
A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 Cincinnati relievers have yielded oneNHL STANDINGS earned run In 15 1·3 innings (0.59 ERA) during the 
playoffs.... Mark McGwire. is 2-for-30 lifetime The Top Twenty-Five teams In the Associated Press 1990 college football poll, with first-place votes In against Roger Clemens with 1.0 strikeouts..... 
WALES CONFERENCE
parentheses. records through October 6, total points based on 25 points lor a first-place vote through Cincinnati left fielder Eric Dav1s Is 3-for-19 wnh one point lor a 25th-place Vote, last week's rank. and this week's opponent. nine strikeouts. 
~DiviRn 
w L T I'll GF GA Home Away Dlv Rara New Jersey 2 2 1 5 19 20 2..().1 0-2..() 1·2-0 2 4 0-2..() 1..()..()
Rocood ~ Prev. Thie Week STREAKS . Rarlc 
NY Rangers 2 0 17 14 2..()..() The Oakland Athletics have won 10 straight Philadelphia 2 2 0 4 16 13 2..()..() 0-2..() 1-1-0
1 Michigan (34) postseason games. The record is 12 by the. New
3-Hl 1,453 3 Michigan State 2 Virginia (t4) 5.{).0 York Yankees in the 1930s.... Oakland's Rickey 
Pittsburgh 2 2 0 4 18 16 1..()..() 1-2-0 2..()..()
1,384 4 North Carolina State 3 Miami (6) 3-1-0 1,324 9 Kansas Henderson had a streak of 14 consecutive stolen
NY Islanders 1 2 0 2 7 10 O..Q.O 1·2-0 O..Q.O 
Washington 1 2 0 2 12 15 1·1-0 0-1..() 0-2..()
4 Oklahoma (1) 5..()..() 1,244 7 bases snapped In Game 3 of the AL playoffs.
Texas (at Dallas) 5 Tennessee (1) 3..().2 Henderson has h~ salely In 12 straJQh! postseason
1,235 6 19 Florida 6 Aubum 3..().1 1,176 5 Vanderbih gannes.... The A's are the first team to reach the 
Adoma Dlvialon 7 Nebraska (2) 5.{).0 1,145 8 World Series three straight times since the 1976·
Boston 4 0 9 23 9 2..()..() 2..().1 2..()..()
Missouri 

Montreal 2 0 5 14 11 2..()..() 0..().1 2..().1
8 No!n! Dome 78 Yankees. The 1972·74 A's also won three
3-1-0 1,122 1 Air Force Hartford 2 1 5 15 15 2..().1 0-1..() 1-1·1
9 Florida 5.{).0 1,017 10 atl5 Tennessee consecutive AL flags. 10 Florida State 
Quebec 1 2 3 14 20 0-1..() 1·1·1 0-2·14-t-0 993 2 16 Auburn (1 0120) Buffalo 0 2 1 11 13 0..().1 0-1-1 0-2·1
11 Illinois 3-1..() SLUGGERS
796 113 Purdue 12 Houston (1) 4..()..() 763 113 120 Texas A&M Oakland is the first team to win a 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE
13 Brigham Young championship w~hout hitting a home run since the 
4-1-0 751 11 Colorado State 14 Colorado 4·1·1 705 12 Iowa State w L T ~ GA Aw.y DIY Cincinnati Reds beat the Chicago Wh~e Sox In
Norris Dlvi8ion 
GF Home
t5 Clemson 5-1-0 690 16 at 118 Georgia Tech 1919. 
Chicago 3 1 0 6 15 10 2·1-0 1..()..() 1..()..()
16 Southern Cal 4-1-0 667 15 at Stanford 
St. louis 2 1 0 4 9 10 1-1..() 1..()..() 1-1-0
17 Washington 4-1-0 848 17 Oregon SWINGS 18 Georgia Tech 4..()..() 451 23 Clemson Cincinnat,·s Tom Browning. the losing
Detro~ 1 2 1 3 15 21 1..()..() 0-2·1 O..Q.O Minnesota 1 3 1 3 14 19 1·1-1 0-2..() 0-1..() Toronto 0 4 0 0 9 22 0-1..() 0-3-0 O..Q.O 
19 Oregon 4·1-0 424 22 at lt7 Washington pitcher In Game 5, gave up 18 home runs at home 
20 Texas A&M 4-1-0 395 19 at lt2 Houston this season and six on the road. 21 Arizona 4-1-0 3t9 25 at Oregon State 
Smythe Dlvieion
22 Indiana 4-0-0 212 Ohio State STARTERS .
Calgary 3 1 0 6 16 11 2..()..() 1-1-0 2..()..()
23 Wyoming 6..().() 132 New Mexico Oakland's Dave Stewart has won 10 stra~ht Los Angeles 2 1 0 4 13 9 1-1-0 1..()..() 1·1-0
24 Mississippi 4-t-0 93 at Georgia decisions against Boston. Stewart is 8·1 lifetime 1n 
Edmonton 1 0 1 3 6 5 1..().1 O..Q.O 0..().1
25 Iowa 3-1-0 86 his matchups w~h Roger Clemens ..... F~11ow1ng
Wisconsin 
Winnipeg 1 2 1 3 15 12 1·2-0 0..().1 0-1-1 Pittsburgh's losses this season -1ncludmg the Vancouver 1 2 0 2 10 12 0-1..() 1·1·0 1·2-0
Others receiving Votes: Texas 76, Ohio State 47, Texas Christian 43, Stanford 25, Michigan State 24, playoffs-Doug Drabek is 13·3. On six occasiOns Syracuse 16, South CaroNna 15. Alabama 5. Toledo 4, Arkansas 3, Calffornia 3. Louisville 3, Missouri he also stopped losing streaks of three games or 
Wednesday'• Garnes
3, Colorado State 2, Penn State 2, Southern Mississippi 2, Louisiana State 1. Nonhern lninois 1. rrore. 
Detro~ 6, Calgary 5, OT Hartford 4, Buffalo 3 

STOPPERSCOLLEGIATE SPORTSWRITERS' TOP 25 N.Y. Rangers 4, Washington 2 In winning eight straight playoff games from 
Quebec 8, Toronto 5 

the Boston Red Sox, Oakland has had six saves Boston 4, Winnipeg 1 
from Dennis Eckersley and one from Rick The Top Twenty teams In the 1990 National Collegiate Sponswrite~ Poll. with first-place votes In Tlw.nday's Garnes 
Honeycutt.parentheses, records through October 6, total points based on 20po1nts lor a f1rst-place voce through Late Game Not Included 
one point lor a 20th-place vote, last week's rank. and this week's opponent. Philadelphia 7, New Jersey 4 
SLUMPS Chicago 4, Pittsburgh 1 The Red Sox soared one run in each of the Rara Rocood ~ Prev. ThieWeek Boston 3, Minnesota 3, tie four games in the AL playoffs. They were also Rara Edmonton a! Los Angeles. (n) 
swept in 1988 by Oakland. 1 Michigan (14 1/2) 3-1..() 570 1/2 3 Michigan State Friday'oa­
2 Virginia (9 1/2) 5.{).0 567 1/2 4 North carolina State Quebec at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. 
STARS 3 Miami(!) 3-1-0 485 9 Kansas Hartford at Detro~. 7:35 p.m. Dave Stewan gave up one run in eight-plus 4 Oklahoma 5.{).0 4581/2 8 Texas (at Dallas) Montreal at N.Y. Rangers. 7:35p.m. innings Wednesday as Oakland beat Boston 3·1 to 
5 Auburn (1) 3..().1 456 5 VanderbiK Winnipeg at Washington, 8:05p.m. capture the American League pennant. Stewan. 6 Nebraska (4) 5..()..() 446 7 Missouri St. Louis at Vancouver. 10:35 p.m. 
the MVP c1 the series. set a record ~h his fHth 7 Tennessee 3-0-2 427 6 110 Florida Saturdoy's Go,_ playoff victory. 8 Noln! D•me 3-1-0 411 1 Air Force Montreal at Hartford. 7:35p.m. 
9 Florida State 4-1-0 3851/2 2 15 Auburn (10120) Pittsburgh at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. 
SERIES 

10 Florida 5.{).0 375 at 17 Tennessee Winnipeg at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m.
11 ff history is any indication. the Pirates may
4..()..() Buffalo at Quebec, 7:35p.m.
It Houston 248 13 119 Texas A&M have the Reds right where they want them. In the 
N.Y. Rangers at Washington, 7:35p.m.
12 Brigham Young 4-1-0 237 10 Colorado State 1925 and 1979 World Series. P~tsburgh trailed 3·1 13 Illinois 3-1-0 226 14 Purdue 
Calgary at New Jersey. 7:45 p.m. 
and came back to win. 

14 Southern Cal 4-1-0 212 1/2 12 at Stanford Detroit a1 Toronto, 8:05p.m. 15 Colorado 4·1·1 196 15 Iowa Stare 
Chicago at Minnesota, 8:35p.m. 
STATUS

Boston at Los Angeles. 10:35 p.rn
16 Clemson 5-1..() 159 16 at 118 Georgia Tech Jose Canseco left Game 4 of the AL playoffs 17 Washington 4-1-0 145 17 Oregon Suncllly'a GarnM 
early because of swelling in his right hand. 

18 Georgia Tech 4..()..() 87 Clemson Calgary at Chicago. 2:35 p.m. 
Canseco says he will be ready lor Game 1 of the 

19 Texas A&M 4-1-0 70 18 at 112 Houston Edmonton at Vancouver. 5:05p.m. 
World Series on Tuesday night. 

20 Oregon 4-1-0 60 at 111 Washington -~ St. Louis at Los Angeles. 10:35 p.m. 
SPEAKING 

Others receiving votes: Indiana 22. Arizona 21 112. Wyoming 9 112. Penn State 3, Texas 3, Michigan 
"The disappointing thing is we didn1 even State 2. Toledo 2. Ohio State 2, Northern Illinois 2. Iowa 1. 
win one game. We got the pitching-but we couldn1 even win a game." -Boston managerSchools participating In this week's poll: Alabama. Arizona, Arizona State. Ball Stare. Brown. 

Joe Morgan.

Clemson. Colorado. Columbia, Duke. Florida, Illinois. Indiana. Kansas. Kentucky. Miami. Michigan. Nebraska. North Carolina State. Notre Dame. Oregon, Oregon State. Penn, Penn State, Southern Cal, Stanlord, Texas. Utah. Virginia. West Virginia. Wisconsin. 
Philadelphia defeats New Jersey, 7-4 behind Jiri Latal's two first-period goals 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Jiri I.atal scored twice in Philadelphia's three-goal first period as the Flyers beat the New Jersey Devils 7-4 on Thursday night. 
Lata! put Philadelphia ahead to stay when he fired a shot from the left circle that bounced over the glove hand of goaltender Sean Burke into the net at 7:50 for a 2-1 lead. He scored again at 12:04 for a 3-1 advantage. 
The Devils got within 4-3 early in the third period on a goal by Kirk Muller, but the Flyers put the game away on goals by Gord \1urphy, Ron Sutter and Tim Kerr. 
Flyers goaltender Ron Hextall, who missed most of 
~ 
last season with injuries, left
\ 
1 
\ Baseball 
) 
continued from page 28 
the game with 3:06 remaining in the second period and was replaced by Ken Wregget. The team said Hextall apparently suffered a pulled back muscle. 
Blackhawks 4, Penguins 1 

Jeremy Roenick had the first three-goal game in the NHL this season as Chicago defeated Pittsburgh. 
Roenick scored twice in a 

1:55 span in the first period and made it 3-1 with less than six minutes remaining in the third period when he knocked in the rebound of Steve Larmer's 25-footer. Michel Goulet, sidelined for the first three games due to an accelerated heartbeat, assisted on all three of Roenick's goals. 
Kevin Stevens' goal midway 

Bautch greeted relief pitcher Brody Pettit with a sharp dou­ble to left. After Coss struck through the second period spoiled Ed Belfour's shutout bid. Mike Hudson had the Blackhawks' other goal. 
North Stars 3, Bruins 3 
Mike Modano scored the tying goal on a spectacular rink­length rush with 9:42 left in the third period Thursday night as Minnesota rallied to tie Boston. 
ending  the  Bruins'  season­ 
opening  four-game  winning  
streak.  

Modano also had two assists as the North Stars ll-3-1) overcame a 3-0 deficit early in the second period. Modano, deked defenseman Stephane Quintal just inside the Bruins' blue line and beat goalie Andy Moog for his first -goal of the 
season. 


APPhoto 
Jiri Latal of the Philadelphia Flyers falls to the ice after being knocked down by Detroit's Randy McKay in the Flyers' home opener Sunday. 
bases. Jacobs, who had struck  wall,  scoring  Bautch  and  
out twice in the game, followed  · Counsell  as  Danapilis  was  
with a double off the right field  thrown out at the plate.  

out looking for the third time of the night, Counsell and Danapilis walked, loading the 
111111

Winning pitcher David Sinnes ~~i~\ 11111111\ ........ 11111111\IIJIIIIII\IIJIIIIII\'IIJII\IIJIIIIJII\'IIIII\'11111\'1111\'IIIII\'IIII\'IIIII\'IIIII\'IIIII\ 1111111\ 11111J11\ 1111111\ 111111\ 111111i 1111J 11111. 11111~~~~~~~
11111111\ 111111\llllll llillllllllllilllllllllliiiiiiiiiii\ 111111~11llill.lllll.llill.lliiiiiiiii\ 1111111\IIJIIIIII\IIJIIIIII\'IIJII\ 111111i\ 11111111\ 111111i 11111111\ 111111i 11111
llill llill

struck out 10 batters in five in­
nings, surrendering four hits and two runs, both earned. Reliever Chris Michalak pitched four scoreless innings for the save, allowing two hits and no walks. 
"We were overmatched at the plate, to be honest," said Air Force head coach Paul Mainieri. "We faced one of the best pitchers in the country (Sinnes) tonight." 
The cold weather and wooden bats could have affected the scoring output of both teams. 
Temperatures dipped below 40 degrees as the 3 112-hour game drew to a close, and Air Force had not used wooden bats all season until Thursday's pre­game batting practice. 
The Irish opened the scoring in the first inning, scoring four runs off three hits. After junior Craig Counsell singled to right with one out, sophomore Eric Danapilis tripled off the left field fence. One out later, Adam Maisano and Cory Mee walked to load the bases, and freshman Craig Layson tripled up the left field alley, clearing the bases. 
Notre Dame added a run in the second when Dan Bautch walked, moved to second on Mike Cuss's sacrifice. and came home on Craig Counsell's line single to right. 
Sinnes cruised until the fifth inning, when he allowed two runs on three hits and a walk by the Falcons. He opened the inning by striking out Kevin Cabanas and Anthony Sansano, but followed with a walk to Manny Robinson, the first walk since the first inning. 
Mike Manor followed with a single, and an attempted pick­off throw by Sinnes sailed into center field, putting Robinson on third and Manor on second. 
Kazlauski  then  singled,  and  
Robinson  and  Manor  both  
scored.  

Sinnes gave up another hit to Ian Pharris, but then got out of further trouble by striking out Steve Carson. 
''I'm a little disappointed that we let them get back in the game," said Murphy, whose team led 5-2 after five innings. "Like last year, Air Force is not a heavily talented team, but they get it done." 
In the sixth. the Irish added another run when Danapilis doubled and Jacobs reached on an infit>ld single to third. One out later. \1ee poked a singiP on a hit-and-run play past drawn­in third basl'man Vern \1ullis. 
The Irish scorPd two more runs thP following inning when 
The Notre Dame Student Players 
presents 

Music and Lyrics by 
James Quinn and Alaric Jans 
Thursday, October 11th through Saturday, October 13th 
8: 70 pm • Washington Hall 
$3 Students/Senior Citizens • $5 General Admission Reserved Seating Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office Phone: 239-8128 • VIsa and Mastercard accepted 
Experience the trials, tribulations, and terror of Parochial school in this musical comedy based on a novel by John R. Powers! 
Produced on Broadway by Marvin Productions. Inc .. Libby Adler Mages and Daniel A. Goldman 
~---------~ 
l I 
Friday, October 12, 1990 The Observer page 21 
Irish volleyball to face Big 1 0 foes 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team will be holding walk-on tryouts on Monday, Oct. 15th at 7 p.m. 
St. Mary's varsity basketball practice will begin on Monday, Oct. 15th from 8 -10 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone interested in being on the team is welcome. 
The ND/SMC Ski Team will hold a meeting on Monday, Oct. 15th at 8 p.m. in Rm. 127 Nieuwland Science Building. At the meeting, $100 deposits will be collected for the Steamboat Trip over Christmas Break and turtlenecks will be handed out. Bring your checkbook.j Call Mike at 271­8901 or Bob at x3588 if you have questions or can't make the meeting. 
YIKES! Val Semmer is 20!! 
(Of course she wouldn't know it 

l 
Happy Birt y 
Love, McRosensteinKiUianbergstienO'Riley 

TA\LGAfE 
PJ(Nt~S 
I Alt.n~nnrv"
ee ru1~w 
CHEESE~ ~PATES 
~ 

lET U.S PREPARE. YOUR TAlL6ATE PICNIC. SO YOU CAN ENJoy THE GAME! 
GRAPE. ~ClEVELAND 272·1922 

Check out these new low prices:  
I..APTOPS  
Mlnlsport HD (6 pound laptop with 20 MB Harddlslc) Supersport 286. Model 20 (CGA video, 20 MB Harddlsk) Supersport 286 Model -40 (CGA video, -40 MB Harddlsk) Supersport 286 E Model 20 (VGA video, 20 MB Hard disk) Supersport 286 E Model 40 (VGA video, 40 MB Harddisk)  $1569.00 $2192.00 $2399.00 $2295.00 $2503.00  
DESKTOPS  
Z-286 lP/8 Model 20 w/FTM Color Monitor, 20 MB Harddlsk.. 1 MB RAM.Windows 3.0, Mouse, VGA video  $151 8.00  

Now Is the time to get the computer you've always wanted. Whether It's word processing, spreadsheets. databases or CAD. ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS has a desktop or laptop to do t{te Job. 
Price Includes WORDPERFECT 5.1 and a one year warranty. 
CONTACT Notre Dame Computer Store 
ZENITH 
Math/Computer Bldg.
data systems 
239-7477 
Groupe Bull 
The Observer I John Studebaker Molly Stark (6) returns the ball over a pair of Oklahoma defenders in Notre Dame's loss to the Sooners in the Golden Dome Classic last 
weekend. 

llL•M·-.&u 
CHICAGO 
MOTOR 
CLUB 

' 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers Auto & Property Insurance 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 5922 GRAPE ROAD INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please '-*for John 0' 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team, in a tailspin since day one, will find no relief this weekend as the team faces Indiana and Ohio State at the Joyce ACC. 
The Irish (6-11) went .500 this week in Chicago, facing Midwestern Collegiate Conference rivals Loyola and Marquette. 
Notre Dame ended a seven­game losing streak by defeating Marquette 5-15, 15-13, 15-3, 15-9. 
Earlier Tuesday night, the Irish dropped a match to Loyola, 15-6, 15-4, 11-15, 15­10. 
The split in Chicago marked the first two games for interim coach Maria Perez. who took over the Irish Monday after Art Lambert resigned. 
Notre Dame will face Indiana Friday night at 7:30 p.m. Ohio will visit the JACC at 2 p.m. on Sunday, October 14. 
The match with Indiana will be Notre Dame's first with the Hoosiers since 1988, when the Irish won, 15-9, 15-9, 15-7. Notre Dame finished 19-12 in '88 and earned an NCAA tournament bid. The Irish lead the series 3-2. 
Notre Dame faced Ohio State in Columbus last season and was defeated 15-7, 15-8, 13-15, 15-7. The Irish historically have struggled against Big Ten schools and currently hold a 16-28 record against them. 


ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS ANNOUNCES SPECIAL LOWER PRICING ON LAPTOPS AND DESKTOPS 

The Observer Friday, October 12, 1990
page 22 
--~~~~~----------------------------------~-­
I, 
Patriot-bashing 
is quickly becoming national pastime 
Two receivers hurt in barroom brawl 
FOXBORO, Mass. (AP) -that we're in ... under a lot of With Patriot-bashing national scrutiny about the be­widespread even before two havior of the team," Sullivan players were hurt in a fight said Thursday, "people have to outside a nightclub, New have enough sense not to be in­England general manager volved in situations where they Patrick Sullivan said they could be compromised. should know enough to avoid "The problem is really exac­being provoked. Prbated today because players 

Starting wide receivers Hart go out on the street and people Lee Dykes and Irving Fryar an~ not very kind to the situa­were injured early Wednesday tion right now," he added. outside the Club Shalimar in Players "are going to be put in Providence, R.I. Fryar's situations when they're out in attorney, Peter DiBiase, said a the public, whether they're out witness told police that before at six o'clock at night or the fight someone was whether they're at the grocery "needling Dykes about how store in the afternoon or 
I ' poorly the team was doing." whether they're out at one in 
l 
The Patriots are 1-4. They the morning and they need to 
APPholc 
also are being investigated by understand that and they need 
New England Patriots quarterback Marc Wilson tackles Cincinnati Bengals linebacker Carl Zander following 
an NFL special counsel after a to be able to face that. 
Zander's 40-yard return of a fumble recovery in their early-season game. 
female reporter alleged she was "There was also the situation sexually harassed by four or where guys were putting their 
respectively. Purdue," said Piane. "Hopefully, five New England players on careers on the line for what?
Indiana 
"We feel a lot more confident we'll be right there tomorrow Sept. 17. So that they can win an argu­knowing that we've beaten and continue to improve." "When a team is in a position ment in a bar?"
continued from page 28 
us in the district rankings, so 
they have to be the favorites." 

~®JJDIHI®JOO®ffiJE~~ 
The Irish will have to go 
THIS IS THE OPPORUNITY YOU
without senior Jenny Ledrick, 
who is suffering from a hip 
HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR! 

problem. She should be able ~o 
compete in the MCC champi­WE ARE LOOKING FOR AN ENTHUSIASTIC onship in two weeks. Jumor INDIVIDUAL WHO IS SEARCHING FOR A CHALLENGIN Sarah Esterline will probably OPPORUNITY AND WHO WOULD LIKE TO GET replace Ledrick in today's meet. 
INVOLVED IN THE EXCITEMENT OF JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND.
The Irish will need better performances from senior 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN APPLYING FOR Captain Terese Lemanski and SOPHOMORE COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON FOR junior Diana Bradley if they JPW-APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE IN STUDENT hope to take first place.
I 
ACTIVITIES.

Lemanski and Bradley were
i 
both bothered by the heat in the 
Notre Dame Invitational, 
DEADLINE:OCTOBER 12. 1990 
finishing 50th and 35th, 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ PARENT'S ~ 
I F~D~TBALL I
I WEEKEND I
~ UNIVERSITY OF NOTa£ DANE ~ 
12 1990~ Friday. Oc;lober • 1 0:30am Shenanigaos Perlmmance JACC North Dome ~ 
~ 9:00am-5:00pm NO Bookstore Open Across from Dillon Hall 1 0:30am Band Concert Steps of Main Building 0.1' ~ (Golden Dome) 00 ~ 3:00pm Campus tour Location: Statue at Main ~ 
i 
Circle 11 :20am Band Steps-Off Steps of Main Building ~ 
7:00pm PepRally JACC,NorthDome 12:10pm NDvs.AIRFORCE Stadium ~ (open to public) Gate 3 00 
§\1.<
lmmediatelyPost Game Band Stadium 00 
7:30pm-1 0:30pm Casino Night (FREE) Stepan Center following game Performance ~ ~ Games, prizes, dancing ~ 
l 
~ 
~ Immediately All-Class Reunion JACC North Dome 0.1' 8:1Opm Student Players present Washington Hall following game Alumni Hospitality Gates 2 &3 00 "Do Black Panent Leather ~ Shoes Really Reflect Up?" ~ 
~ Students $3.00 t3h0 minutes a~ er Alumni Senior Club South of Stadium ~ ~ General Admis. $5.00 e game unt1 1 (You must be 21 to enter) Qle/'· 00 2:00am Admission $2.00 00 ~ without Club Card ~ ~ Saturday. October 13. 1990 ~ W One Hour "Post-Game Party" Century Center, QlC00 

8:00am Concession Stands Throughout Campus folowing game co-sponsored by Downtown South Bend ~ ~ ND Alumni Assoc. ~ ~ 8:00am-5:00pm NO Bookstore Open Across from Dillon Hall (Admission $8.00) ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 8:00am-1 hr. Irish Pub JACC Fieldhouse 8:00pm Dessert Reception South Dining Hall w z after game (Coffee & Donuts) Sponsored by Student 00 Government , Glee Club, ~ 
8:00am-Gametime Notre Dame Alumni JACC North Dome and Jazz Band ~ ~ Family & Friends adults $2.00 ~ G\tC invited to Alumni children $1.00 
l 
I ~ z
Hospitality Center 
~ 
10:00am Porn Pen Squad & In Front of Bookstore Sunday. October 14. 1990 ~ Cheerleading Performance ~ ~ 11 :45am Parents Mass Sacred Heart Church §\1.< 

00 1O:OOam Glee Club Concert JACC North Dome (featuring, Liturgical Choir) 00 
~ :P'J:tJ® ~JJJ©}J~ 1~]1ll)©i.H l~l'0r9!B ~ 
. I
Pick up a complete schedule at the LaFortune Information Desk. ~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· 
j 
!• 



B . APPrlDt) oston Red Sox p1tcher Roger Clemens (right) argues with plate 
Friday, October 12, 1990 
Serving ND/SMC Students for 25 years 
fastball, hit the corners well, kept the ball down and threw 
rcO"LoNiALPANCAKEHOUsEl 
I APPLE PANCAKE I 
slider after slider that froze the 
h 
Air Force hitters. "He [Sinnes] is one of the Exp. 11-31-90 off~ 
SAVE $1.00 I 
premier pitchers in collegiate baseball," said Air Force head
==-----
COLoNiALPANCAKEHOUsE 
coach Paul Mainieri. "Last year I ANY CREPES I 
we faced him twice. The first time we could have until 


The Observer page 23 
Ejection of Clemens spawns new disputes concerning players problems with umpires 
OAKLAND. Calif. (AP) ­Roger Clemens' ejection set up another bigger dispute with umpires Thursday and even
\ 
sparked debate in Congress, where a representative from Massachusetts called Terry Cooney "looney." One day after Clemens became the first active player to be tossed from a playoff game for arguing, the issue of an umpire's authority -al­ready a hot topic this season ­heated up even more. "The attitude is what needs to be changed. This situation is a great example of how stupid it is to throw out a player for what Clemens did," Philadelphia Phillies president Bill Giles said. "I sure hope in the negotiations there's some sort of written clause or under­standing that the players are what the fans come to see, not the umpires." Baseball already was pre-
Murphy 
continued from page 28 
Sophomore Dave Sinnes, a Freshman All-American last year, survived an early inning scare and then settled into a good groove. He struck out 10 men, five looking, in five in­nings. He had good pop on his 
Ourprimeribis 
gradedon thecurve. 
$11.95 ~person. A lot of restaurants may be able to get top-grade pnme beef. But nobody can serve it up like Marriott. smrchefs hav~ yearsof experience in turning choice cuts of beef mtoyourfavonte choices on the menu. Tender, juicy, full offlavor, 
and se_rved with a fresh garden salad. All for just $11.95. Once you g:tve us a try; the results will bewritten all overyour face. 
SOUTH BENU 

~arr1ott. 
Ul Ntwth Sl I014Pph \ltl!'d, Soulh lk-nd, lndl.lno1 4b60t {2191214·1000 
pared for a major light at the end of the season when the um­pires' contract expires. Union president Richie Phillips agn~ed Thursday that there are several issues to talk about, including the possibility of adding a fifth umpire to each crew. but said authority is not one of them. 
"That's certainly not a point that should come up in the col­lective bargaining agreement. Giles is so far off base when he says something like that, it's absurd," Phillips said. "The umpires don't think for one second that the fans come to see umpires umpire. But when Giles talks about putting some­thing in writing, there IS some­thing in writing -the official baseball rules. And those say a player cannot be abusive to an umpire." 
Clemens said he did not ver­bally assault Cooney in Game 4 of the American League play­offs, although anyone with anv 
Doomsday and we still wouldn't That happened leading off the have gotten anything off him." third and subsequently sel the 
In that game, which the Irish tone for that inning. won 4-3 in 13 innings, Sinnes "He won't be in the lineup if pitched 4 1/3 innings to record he continues to play like that." the win. He struck out six, Dan Bautch doubled, walked walked none, and gave up nei­twice, and was hit by a pitch. ther a hit nor a run. "Bautch had a horrible game," 
On the contrary, Murphy said Murphy. "He threw to wasn't too pleased with the third base on a play when he performance of Sinnes. should have thrown to second." "Sinnes didn't have a good Maybe Murphy wasn't as outing at all," said Murphy. "He upset as he leads on. But the would have lost a lot of games fact of the matter is that these tonight: He helped himself a problems are things he stresses bunch by getting ahead on 19 as "musts". Murphy emphasizes of 23 batters." performance, not results; he'd 
After striking out the first rather see his team perform two men looking in the fifth, well and not win a game than Sinnes committed one of pitch­win, but play terrible baseball. ing's mortal sins: he walked the Good performance breeds good next man. He then proceeded to results. make two poor pitches and Another thing that is ended up giving up two runs. distressing to Murphy is the 
"lie lost his concentration lack of student support at the . and he didn't have a curve ball Fall Classic. Granted it was to lefties," said Murphy. cold, but the ten or so students Freshman Greg Layson went that did show up really isn't 
1 for 4, but his hit was a big enough. 
His bases loaded triple "It's really disappointing that gave the Irish a 4-0 lead in the the students don't come out. first. We have the best facility 
"That was a great hit, but he around-we have to find a way didn't execute later." stated to get students down here. I Murphy. "He swung at a 3-1 think the ones that do come out pitch over his head." have a good time." 
CULTURAL CALENDAR 
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
VATZLAV INDEPENDENCE 
Political satire from Eastern Europe A family divided against itself Directed by Les Baird Directed by Roberta N. Rude NOV. 7-11 APRIL 17-21 
EARLY SUBSCRIBERS BONUS! Fresh Tracks 
A faculty-guest artist dance concert Directed by Sue Cherry FRI., NOV. 16•MOREAU HALL UTILE THEATRE LIMITED TICKET AVAILABILITY 
Subscriptions: $10/$7 
All performances in O'Laughlin Auditorium unless noted. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, in O'Laughlin, Mon.-Fri., 10-4. Visa/MasterCard: 284-4626. For updated program information, call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline: 674-0900, category 1740. 
----f!i---­
Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME·INDIANA 

degree of lip-reading profi­ciency might not agree. Still to be sorted out is exactly what happened. 
In Washington, where Operation Desert Shield and the recession are the major topics. Massachusetts Rep. Silvio Conte brought the Clemens contro­versy to the House floor. Conte wasn't happy that Boston got swept by Oakland and was especially unhappy with the way Cooney treated the Red Sox pitching star. 
Cooney "ran against the writ­ten rule of 'let 'em play' when Roger Clemens said 'read my lips' from the mound," Conte said. 
The umpire acted, "without warning, without the under­standing Clemens was caught up in the heat of battle," Conte said. "Terry 'Looney' Cooney­read my lips!" 

page 24 The Observer Friday, October 12, 1990 
Cincinnati fans offer helping hand as Wyche pays off fine 
CINCINNATI (AP)-Bengals fans are chipping in to help coach Sam Wyche pay the estimated $27,500 fine imposed by the NFL for his refusal to let a female writer into the team's locker room. 
It's been a lively topic on ra­

i I 
dio talk shows, and now a win­
: \ 
dow replacement company that ! 
'\ 
uses Wyche as a spokesman 
has placed an ad in Cincinnati's 
I 
i) 
two daily newspapers asking

I . 
lI the public to contribute to the "Sam Wyche Fine Fund." 


! ~ "It's just an idea I had after watching the game and seeing the controversy," said Mike Donovan, general manager of Nu Sash's Cincinnati office. "We're big fans of Sam and wanted to show our support. We think Sam made a stance and we ought to support him." 

Thursday was the first day the two-inch by two-column ad 
Hoops 
continued from page 28 
season. There are expectations all around. 
"My long term goal is to win the state championship," she said. "We've gotten real close each year. I think we're going to have a real good season." 
Before she can concentrate solely on basketball, she wtll play in the Pennsylvania state golf championship in two weeks. She won the Eastern League championship to qualify for the state meet. 
And by the way, her high school does not have a girls team. She qualified for the state as a member of the boys 
I, 
•J 
l( 
/ 
appeared in The Cincinnati Enquirer and The Cincinnati Post. 
"If you're a Bengals fan, show you care," the ad said. 
"We've already gotten a few calls," Donovan said. "A few didn't like the idea, but several did. 
"There was one gentleman, who was a little disturbed sounding, who used a little bit of profanity. A woman who called seemed to think it wasn't the right decision for Sam to make. 
lhe incident took place fol­lowing a Monday night loss in Settle. 
Wyche, who is active with projects for the homeless in Cincinnati, has said the NFL has assured him that the fine can be donated to charity, and his choice would be "Homemade." 
Bill Cunningham, a talk show host on WLW radio, was one of the first to urge fans to help 

APPhoto Cincinnati Bengals ~ead coach Sam. Wyche, jokingly garbed in a towel, receives reporters in the Bengals clubhouse at Anahe1m Stad1um followmg their defeat of the Los Angeles Rams Sunday. 
pay Wyche's fine. 

"I did it in order to help one of the finest Americans I know," Cunningham said Thursday. 
fAPPi.2iST"BiRTiiDAYJ 
I  ?Jt&t;t  I  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
Now you really something to cheer about!  ~ I  
Love, Mom, Dad, Tom, Katie,  ~  


In Loving Memory of our DAD, Wlll.IAMJ. HICKEY, JR. 
june 15, 1935-0ctober 13, 1989 University of Notre Dame Food Service Director--1981-1989 Dad, you are deeply missed by all of us, and we wish you were with us today to lessen our aching hearts. The sudden loss of you is something we will never, ever understand. But our fond memories of you will always live on. We must always follow our dreams as you did. Your dreams and goals 
I 
j 
became reality. Our world was shattered when we lost your presence. Your smile, your ambition, and your excitement will live forever in our hearts. 
You were one of a kind, Dad. Did we ever tell you that you're our hero? You're everything we hope to be. Silently, we will think of you all the days 
of our lives. We miss you deeply, Love, Wife-Ann Children-William & Karen 
WE BRING MORE ROOMMATES TOGETHER 
Richard & Karen 

Michael & Kristeen 
Barry & Kimberly & 
Grandchildren 
BedrOOm 

'*"-"' 
U'6"•14'0" 

""""' 10'8"x 12'8" 
10'8"1 12'8" 
BY SPLITTING THEM UP 1:~ 
At 'lbe Pointe at St. Joseph we realize the closer you are to your roommate, the farther apart you want to be. Knowing this, we separate our 2 bedroom 2 bath with a large kitchen, separate dining area, and living room. 
-•­
THEPOINTE 
~ 
AT SAINT JOSEPH 
---­
307 East LaSalle South Bend, IN 46617 
Now You Can Save Money By Sharing The Rent And Keeping Your Privacy Too 
LEASE YOURS TODAY! 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6 pm
Graduate Students 

call: Sat. 10-5 pm Sun.ll-5 pm
287-2684 

l-1 aP1P!d B·j rthdE !d Pati'l 
Love .. Mom .. Dad .. Jimmy & Lynne 

"•••PROBABLY ONE OF THE MASTERPIECES OF THIS DECADE." 
-C•ryn James,THE HEW YORK TIMES 
"A TRIUMPHANT PERFORMANCE 
•••Isabelle Huppert has seized the role of a lifetime." 
-Peter 'D'IWCrs, ROLLING STONE 
"ISABELLE HUPPERT GIVES A CRUSHING PERFORMANCE 
in a film of uncompromising realism." 
-GcneSIYI/t 

"****'STORYOFWOMEN' IS STRONG 
STUFF.••SHATTERING AND TIMELY." 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Cinema at the Snlte 
TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:30,9:30 
--~­
\ 
friday, October 12, 1990 

Lester 
continued from page 28 
Dame just seemed like where I should be. 
"I was impressed with Notre Dame athletics. Here. they stress sports, but they also make sure that you keep up with your studies. It's a real balance. I like the attention that they give to athletics. The athletic staff has done its best to see that we're happy." 
Since Lester was also inter­ested in Wisconsin-Madison, Virginia and Stanford, Notre Dame should consider itself fortunate to have such a well­mannered and talented individ­ual as a part of its student body. Just ask Petrucelli. 
"I have lots of respect for her as a person and as a player," 
NOTRE DAME VS MIAMI 

"' ::z:
-

~t~R IT... tlh. ~ 
I 

·r11'li CL~ss · 
ClASS OF '94 • MONDAY • Oa 15 ClASS OF '93 • TUESDAY • OG 16 ClASS OF '92 • WEDNESDAY • Ocr 17 ClASS OF '91 • THURSDAY • Ocr 18 All ClASSES • FRIDAY • Ocr 19 EVERYONE • SATURDAY • 00 20 
AVAILABLE FROM HALL REPS, LA FORTUNE INFO DESK, BOOKSTORE, THE PRO SHOP, AND GSU OFFICE 
PROCTER & GAMBLE 
FINANCE 
l 
I 
page 25

The Observ:..:e:..:.r____ 
Big East foes concern Miami basketball 
MIAMI (AP) -On Leonard Hamilton's first full day leading a Big East-bound basketball program, the Miami Hurricanes coach sounded like he wanted to call a timeout. 
Thoughts of his new 1991-92 schedule may have had something to do with it. 
This season, the Hurricanes will play teams such as Maryland-Baltimore County. Brooklyn College and Central Connecticut. In another year, opponents will be from the same region but of a somewhat higher caliber -Big East cal­iber. 
In his comments since Miami joined the basketball-rich con­ference on Wednesday, Hamilton has professed enthu­siasm for the move. But at a 
said Petrucelli. "When she is a senior, lots of people through­out this country will know who she is." 
Yet such admiration is mu­tual. 
"Coach Petrucelli is a great coach," said Lester, expressing the entire team's sentiments. "I like him a lot. He knows how to coach, works really hard, and is a good motivator. He really luncheon Thursday to discuss his upcoming first season at Miami, he declined to speculate about the impact of conference play on attendance, recruiting or the team's won-loss record. 
"We're not going to concern ourselves with a timetable" for becoming competitive in the Big East, Hamilton said. 
Hamilton. hired last April after four seasons at Oklahoma State, faces an uphill struggle. Miami has averaged less than 3,000 fans per game since the basketball program was resur­rected in 1985 after a 15-year hiatus. 
As a result, former coach Bill Foster found it difficult to re­cruit. The Hurricanes last played in a postseason tourna­ment in 1963. 
makes us want to play. I love to play for him." 
Of course, Petrucelli was not the only person to welcome Lester to the Irish program. The veteran upperclassmen, although their numbers are few, were also warm hosts. 
"I .was really nervous about fitting in and getting to know the upperclassmen," admitted Lester. "They're the nicest girls. They have been supportive, and 
Whenthe Great AmericanDream isn'tgreatenough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
The people of Procter & Gamble present an overview of our Finance organization and employment opportunities within it. 
We want you to learn more about us so we can learn more about you. 
"Now it's time to find out over the next three to five years if college basketball is going to fly in Miami," Foster said from his mountain home in Blowing Rock, N.C. 
''I've talked to a number of people about this the past few days, and everybody poses the same question -what about the Miami fans? Are they going to jump in now and help the team grow, or let them struggle and do it on their own?" 
The phone at the university ticket office was "ringing off the wall" Thursday. according to athletic director Sam 
Jankovich. He was not as shy as Hamilton about setting goals, saying season ticket sales should jump to 5,000 by next season. 
we all get along well. They treat me as they treat other upper­classmen. I really like all the 
other freshmen, especially. 
"It's been good to meet people from so many different places, like Texas and Pennsylvania. We compliment each other well, and we have a good mix of different personalities. 
"The spirit of the team and coach have really helped me to fit into school and the team," Lester continued. "We have shaped up into a great team, and I'm looking forward to the next three years. We're going to get better and better. We'll be terrific." 
In a season full of ups and downs like this one, does a novice like Lester have a special moment of importance which sticks out in her mind? 
"Tying UW-Madison in pre­season was great because it was my first experience playing any kind of real game," Lester said. "We came to school August 14, and we played Madison on August 21. We worked very hard that week. 
"Coach made us believe we could tie them. We didn't expect to stay with them, but by the time the game rolled around, we believed we could do it and we did it. That game gave us the feeling of what we could do as a team." 
This Saturday, Lester and her teammates will put their 10-3-1 record on the line against Chicago-area power Northwestern. The game is to be held at 10 a.m. at Alumni Field. 
"They are a well-coached team, and I'm sure that they are motivated to play Notre Dame," said Petrucelli. "They play a good level of soccer. I'm not sure about our injury situa­tion, but it would be nice if we had some of our injured players back so that our starting 11 could play together again. 
"This game is sandwiched in between our big win over UW­Milwaukee and the big rivalry with Saint Mary's College on 
Monday night. We have got to be sure to play this game be­fore we play the game on Monday night. We really need 
to  avoid  looking  past  
Northwestern."  
Considerations  of  the  

strength of Northwestern aside, the early game time doesn't help either team. 
"Early morning games are tough," said Petrucelli, "because you've got to get up at 7 a.m. to eat. Still, it's tougher for the opposition because they have to travel here." 


You Are Invited to Attend Date: Yet what ·makes the Irif>h 
a Presentation meeting with Northwestern
PEOPLE 
Time:

We encourage casual dress­even more curious is the fact
OUR PRIMARY INVESTMENT 
please come as you are Place: that Mike Crowe, the Wildcat coach, has· coached Alison ),ester since she was 11 years
Refreshments and food to follow 
old. 


'-'·'.. ·.. ~-~..... •... ·.·.. ·.·.·................·..:........... ~ ... ·.. ·. -.·· 
., 


-------~---. 
page 26 The Observer Friday, October 12, 1990 
Pirates, Reds provide drama in NL championship series 



:I: lij I i : \ 
I { 

APPhoto 
Cinci~nati R_eds_ s~ortstop Barry Lar~in ta~s out Pirates runn~r Bobby ~onilla attempting to steal second base 1n the f1rst 1nn1ng of Wednesdays National League champ1onsh1p senes game in Pittsburgh. 
Cincinnati one victory from World Series 
Bucs hanging by a thread 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The more relaxed and an off-day Pittsburgh Pirates are trying to will help." make this all very simple. Eight times in postseason 
"We have to win two games," history a team has rebounded Andy Van Slyke said. "All we from a 3-1 deficit -the have to do is win two in a row. Pirates, in the 1925 and 1979 We can do that." World Series. 
The Pirates made it all "We just have to pull a possible by beating Cincinnati Kansas City," Van Slyke said. 3-2 in Game 5 of the National "They were down 3-1 to League playoffs Wednesday Toronto in the playoffs and 3-1 night at Three Rivers Stadium. to St. Louis in the World Before the game, Van_ Slyke Series." said the Pirates were capable of beating any team three in a Van Slyke played for the row. Cardinals when the Royals ral­
In fact, they have done even lied to win the last three games better than that against the of the 1985 World Series. Reds. In mid-August, the "I know it's a cliche, but you Pirates went into Riverfront really have to take it one game Stadium and won four straight. at a time," he said. "If we win 
"I don't think we need a mir­Friday, then it's only one more acle or anything, just some big win." hits," Bobby Bonilla said. 
The Pirates didn't get many Game 6 is scheduled for big hits from their big three of Friday at 8:18 p.m. EDT. Zane Van Slyke, Bonilla and Barry Smith will pitch for the Pirates Bonds in the first five games. against Danny Jackson. The trio combined to go 12 for There were signs around 55 (.218) with no homers and Three Rivers Stadium on five RBis. Wednesday night trying to re­
"We're starting to hit the ball vive the spirit of '79. It must harder," Bonds said. "We're have worked, too. 
! 
!
I .I i 
. ~-... 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The Cincinnati Reds are lamenting the one that got away. 
The National League pennant might have been just 90 feet away Wednesday night when they loaded the bases with one out in the ninth against Pittsburgh. It was a perfect chance to wipe out a 3-2 deficit and finish off the Pirates in five games. 
Instead, the Pirates turned a game-saving double play on Jeff Reed's grounder to send the playoffs back to Cincinnati for Game 6 on Friday. 
"You always want to win it at home," outfielder Paul O'Neill said. "But boy, we wanted to win this one tonight." 
They thought they were going to, and that's what hurt. 

. J 
"CORNER" bring them to the ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
In the name Of God, Most Gracious, Most Merciful 
RLECTURE ON 

t 
4:30P.M. 
ORGANI ED BY THE MUSLIM STUDENTS' ASSOCIATION OF NOTRE DAME 
-.. ----------------------------­
first four games with their bullpen and their defense. The Pirates' only victory, in Game 1, came when left fielder Eric Davis misjudged a fly ball to let in the winning run. 
The Reds won the next three -only the second time since Sept. 1 that they won more than two consecutive games ­and were poised to clinch the title Wednesday night when Reed came to bat with the bases loaded. 
They expected to win. "It was in our hands," O'Neill said. 
No. It turned out to be in the hands of third baseman Bobby Bonilla, who scooped Reed's 
ounder and started the 5-4-3 double play that saved the Pirates from elimination. 
"They made a good play. They made the key play," Reed said. "I had to beat the play at first base, and I didn't get down there quick enough." 
Expmss Press• 
CF ~'\DANA INC~TEO
. 
--------Week-end!iesiders at SCI(red Heart Church: 
Saturday, Octor 13, 5PM Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
Sunday, October 14, BAM Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C. 
10 AM Rev. William Dohar, C.S.C. 
11:45 AM Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. Please be prayerfully mindful of LaVern Yazzie and Alicia McKearn and 
their families. Their fathers died recently, and Campus Ministry offers them our prayer and support. 
Surpr1sed Aga1n? 


Love ... Amy L~ Kelly~ Grfff~ St~cy~ Scroppy~ Nfchelle~ Prts~ Cosey M~ -end the "onns~~-Suz~ Kor~ Jo, end Nor. 
. . . · ...< . ~ . . . .:: .<.~·.::.>:·: ..... :. . ; 
The ND Club of Ann Arbor in cooperation with the Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) is offering a Premed/Prelaw trip to 
the University of Michigan on Nov. 2 for junior and senior preprofessional students. The trip will include, among other things, lunch, tours of the respective schools, and panel discussions with ND alumni physicians and lawyers. Sign ups will be bald in the Alumni office (Rm 201 Admin. Bldg.) through Oct. 18. There is no charge for the trip, but participation is limited and will be handled on a first come first serve basis. 
~ 

friday, October 12, 1990 
The Observer page 27 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Friday ACROSS 27 Famed French 66 Santa Fe, e.g. physicist 
&7 Unavailing1 Wear a happy 
30 "-You Glad
7 p.m. Pep Rally. Gate 3, JACC. Sponsored by Student face &a Walked
You're You?" 5 Island in the &9lt may be 
Activities. 
32 New Guinea 

Tyrrhenian Sea common 
7:30 p.m. a~d ~:30 p.m. Film, "Story of Women," port
9Wealthy, 70Activist
33 Balderdash

Annenberg Aud1torwm, Snite Museum. Sponsored by Notre 
influential one 71 Lioness of note 
35 Greek peak 

Dame Communication & Theatre. 
14 Jason's 39 Photo finishes command 43 Solemn vow 
DOWN
8 p-m: and 10:~0 P-~-Film, "Little Mermaid," Cushing 15 Cordelia's 
44 Western resort 
Aud1tonum, Engmeenng Building. Sponsored by Student 
father 1 Innocent in the 
45 Dawn goddess 
Union Board. 
1& Contralto woods 
46 Stage part 

Nikolaidi 2 Land of Tara 
49 Eden, e.g. 

8:10 p.m. Studio Series Production, "Trojan Women," 
17 Happy endings 3 Uttar Pradesh 
51 Bugle signal 

Washington Hall. city
20 Maternally 54 Prospector's
related 4 Mark with spots 
quest LECTURE CIRCUIT 21 Kind of cut or 5 Antiquity, to a55 Aerial saucer poetFriday cake 56 Fla. city near &Minimum
22 Auction action Silver Springs 7Birch--,
3:00 p.m. "Controversial International Investment 23 Endure 59 Certain host former senator Opportunities", by Jason Bawn of Kidder, Peabody Co., 25 Also-rans &3 Camp followers 8 Pisa's river 
London. Notre Dame Room. Sponsored by International 
9 "Optics" author 
Student Affairs and Professor J.J. Carberry, Department of Chemical Engineering. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE to A Khan .-.--..--,.--. 11 Bathysphere inventor
4:30 p.m. "Gulf Crisis: Status & Possible Outcomes". By 
~~~=-! 12 Walking ­
Dr. Sami Al-Aryan. At Theodore's. Sponsored by Muslim 
(elated)
Students' Association. 
~~..:.t.iiioloioio ~~W1JII13 Ancient reciters 
~ of poetry
Monday 
.:.:J:::.+:::.+=+-=-+=-1 18 Fireside ~..:....J.,:+:=-•-..=.B8 :=-·~-~-=-<~~=--~ 19 Perry's creator 
2 p.m. October 15, "Sports and Entertainment Law" by Lee Steinberg and Roger Valdiserri , attornies from B-':"i":+':+.~ ~:::+:,:+::=-!.i.i. ~.:;:+;.+:::-! 24 Withered 2& Ancient portico 
Southern California and Notre Dame. Room 222 Law School 
27 Moreover
Courtroom. Sponsored by Student Bar Association. 
28 Author Pines 
4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Normal Holonomy ~=::+=+=~ 29 Confined Groups and Isoparametric Submanifolds," Professor Ernst H-,:::;+;.+:;l 30 Beeline: the 
--way?
Heintze, University of Cantania/Queen's University. Room 
~.=.;:.:..L;..J 31 Hebrew letter 
226, Mathematics Building. Sponsored by the Department of Mathematics. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Make your Own Taco Bar Vegetables Marinara Pierson Deluxe Turkey Sandwich Quiche Lorraine 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
GI~E ME t>. t-liCE SMILE . 11\f>\ti:. GOOO. ~C>~ ~'I 

~


PARENT'S 
OOQ@[X)u 
TO!Nl~GIHTii, October 12 
F~ 

7:30 to 10:30 PM 
WEEKEND 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRI:. DAME
Stepan CentPr 
**NOW SHOWING** SUB MOVIES: TONIGHT and SATURDAY 
Tlhe IUU~a M~rrm~MI--8PM and 10:30PM Cushing Auditoriom, Tickets are $2. 

• 
..... 
STU DENT UNION BOARD 
34 Ratio words 36 Made tracks 37 Buskin or 
brogan 
380rg. 40 "The Light­
Failed": Kipling 41 Kind of dancer 42 McGuffey's 
volume 47 Breed of dog 48 Portuguese 
cape so Kind of control 
SPELUNKER 

51 University at Medford, Mass. 52 Full of zeal 53 Indian Buddhist gateway 54 Tureen adjunct 57 Gung-ho sa Fashionable beach resort 
60 Play at a game on ice 61 TV role for Sonny Shroyer &2 Norse heroic work 64 Cold cubes in Ki:iln &5 A neighbor of Aus. 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

.._ 
-


/ 


By SCOTI BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Head Coach Pat Murphy will tell you he was disappointed with a lot of aspects of Thursday night's 8-2 win against Air Force at Coveleski Stadium. but any time the Irish beat a team by six runs it can't be all bad. 
In nine innings, the Irish and the Falcons engaged in an affair of hits, stranded baserunners and strikeouts. In all, the Irish batters accumu­lated 11 hits and stranded 13, while pitchers struck out 15 Falcons. 
"There were a lot of disap­
pointing things, but I can't be 
too disappointed beating a 
Women's cross country team favored for once in Indiana meet 
By RICHARD MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team finally will enter a meet in which it must be considered the favorite. 
It has run into such stalwarts as Georgetown, Boston College and Virginia in its first three meets. The Irish travel to Indiana State University to compete in the Indiana Intercollegiates Friday at 4 p.m.. 
The field includes many of the top Indiana schools, including Purdue, Indiana State, Ball State, Butler and Evansville. 
Purdue appears to be the best of that group, ranking high in the district rankings. The Irish, however, defeated Purdue in last week's Notre Dame Invitational and might have an advantage in this week's event. 
"We beat Purdue last week," said Head Coach Joe Piane,
...i.·_ 
"but they still are higher than 
see INDIANA I page 22 

',. 

Sports 
Friday, October 12, 1990
page 28 
team in the WAC (Western Athletic Conference),~ said Murphy. "Don't underestimate Air Force. This was a good win for us. Air Force is better than six runs below us." 
The WAC contains such tra­ditional powers as San Diego State, Hawaii and Brigham Young. Its record last year was 26-34, 19-13 outside the con­ference. 
The game, televised by Sports Channel, will air nationally on Oct. 20 at 10 a.m., the day of Notre Dame's football contest against Miami. The two teams will square off again tonight at Coveleski Stadium at 8:30 p.m. 
The OlserverI Andrew McCloskey 
Notre Dame's Joe Binkiewicz (13) reaches first base just ahead of the see BASEBALL I page 20 
pickoff throw in last week's Irish win over Wichita State. 
Freshman soccer star makes her mark early 
Lester leads Irish in goals and points 

Notre Dame's Alison Lester powers past a Washington University defender in a match played earlier this season. 
Women's hoops lands top player 
USA Today called it a "recruiting coup." 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team has received a 
i. verbal commitment from Michelle Marciniak, a five-

Greg Guffey 
•l foot, nine-inch 
Sports Editor
guard from Allentown {Pa.) Central Catholic High School. 
Marciniak is probably the. top player in the country. 
She averaged 26 points per game as a junior and was the lone junior named to the USA Today first-team All-American squad. She also earned a gold medal with the East team at the 
U.S. Olympic Festival last summer. 
This is an unusual commitment not because Marciniak chose Notre Dame, but because she announced her decision without visiting the school. 

"When {head) coach (Muffet) McGraw and coach {Dave) Glass came in for the home visit, there was just something there," Marciniak said. "I just had the feeling that was where I wanted to go to school. It was all I was looking for." 
McGraw's presentation must have been outstanding because it is not every year that the top player in the country chooses her school without an official visit. Marciniak will make her first trip to Notre Dame next weekend. 
Marciniak had narrowed her choices to Stanford, Tennessee, Texas, Rutgers and Notre Dame. 
"It's a great school for athletes academically," Marciniak said of Notre Dame. "That had a lot do with it. As far as the basketball program, I'd say they're already one of the top 25 teams in the country." 
Marciniak was definitely one of the most highly recruited high school seniors. She said much of her time was spent answering mail or talking with college recruiters. 
By making her decision now, Marciniak can -concentrate on what looks to be an outstanding senior season. 
"I think it's a big advantage," she said. "I've been recruited pretty heavily for about three years. It's been a long process. It was a big burden off my shoulders." 
She also has her goals set high for the coming 
see HOOPS I page 24 
By MIKE KAMRADT 
Sports Writer 

If one looks at the the statistics of last night's Notre·· Dame baseball game with Air Force at Coveleski Stadium, one would think it was a great night for the Irish. They won 8­2, banged out 11 hits, including three doubles and two triples, and struck out 15 Air Force batters. However. the common fans' view is not the same as a Pat Murphy view. 
"I was disappointed in our play," he said. "We had a lot of bad at-bats. I hope we come back and have a better game tommorrow." 
see MURPHY I page 23 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

Who is the top scorer on the Notre Dame women's soccer team this season? 
Did you say Susie Zilvitis? Marianne Giolitto? Good guesses, but incorrect. The right answer -a player who is making her presence felt against many teams -is a freshman from Schaumburg, Illinois. 
Can you say Alison Lester? 
Very good. And so is she. 
Over the course of the 1990 season, Lester has fired off 33 shots (third on the team), netting eight goals {first) and four assists (third), for a total of 20 points (first). 
"I think that Alison Lester is one of the best freshmen around," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "For her to have the impact that she has had as a freshman is a great accomplishment. She is dan­gerous every time that she gets the ball. I wouldn't want to have to play against her. 
"I think that she's a great kid and a lot of fun. I didn't really know her or anything about her before I came her, but she made an impact the first day of preseason. She has proved that she's a Division I player. I think that we can build our attack around Alison Lester and be successful at any level." 
At Schaumburgh High School, Lester earned Chicago Tribune and Chicago Sun-Times All­Area and All-City honors, as well as being picked for All­Academic Team, All-Midwest, All-State, All-Sectional. and All­Conference honors as a senior. 
In her career at Schaumburg, Lester earned three letters and set records for points in a sea­son (73) and most career goals (51). 
Qne may wonder why such a player would choose to come to Notre Dame. For Lester, that question was not so enigmatic. 
''I've been interested in Notre Dame for a couple of years in high school because of its aca­demics," explained Lester. "I wanted to play college soccer, and I thought that maybe I would have the opportunity to play at Notre Dame. Notre 
see LESTER I page 25 

AP~ 
Sid Bream and the Pittsburgh Pirates meet the Cincinnati Reds Friday when the NL championship series resumes. Page 26. 
I R I S H 

A Supplement to The Observer 
Friday, October 12, 1990 
THE GAME 
The Game Air Force (3-3 at Notre Dame (3-1) 
Time 12:08 p.m. 
TV & Radio Sportschannel America: Ted Robinson, Paul Hornung Radio Network: Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna WNDU Channel 16: Jeff Jeffers, Jack Nolan 
Tickets The game is sold out. 
AP Rankings Notre Dame 8th Air Force unranked 
Series Notre Dame leads 15-4 
Last Game Notre Dame 41 Air Force 27 
NO SCHEDULE 

Sept. 15 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Oct. 27 Nov. 3 Nov. 10 Nov. 17 Nov. 24 
ND 28, Michigan 24 ND 20, Michigan State 19 ND 37, Purdue 11 Stanford 36, ND 31 Air Force Miami at Pittsburgh at Navy at Tennessee Penn State at Southern California 
AIR FORCE SCHEDULE 

Sept. 1 Colorado St 35, AIR FORCE 33 Sept. 8 AIR FORCE 27, Hawaii 3 Sept. 15 AIR FORCE 10, Citadel 7 Sept. 22 Wyoming 24, AIR FORCE 12 Sept. 29 San Diego St 48, AIR FORCE 18 Oct. 6 AIR FORCE 24, Navy 7 Oct. 13 at Notre Dame Oct. 27 UTAH Nov. 3 BYU Nov. 10 at Army Nov. 17 UTEP 
GAME NOT6S, 
•The 
Falcons started out with six straight victories in 1989, but a loss to Notre Dame began a streak in which Air Force won only two of its last seven games-finishing with a 42-29 loss to Ole Miss in the Liberty Bowl. 

•Fisher 
DeBerry is in his seventh season at Air Force with a 51-28-1 record. He has led the Falcons to four bowl appearances in his previous six seasons, including a 12-1, fifth-ranked season in 1985. 

•In 
1989, top-ranked Notre Dame scored four of the first five times it had the ball and built a 21-0 lead 18 seconds into the second period before a record crowd at Falcon Stadium. 

•The 
Irish will look to start a new homefield winning streak after last weekend's loss to Stanford. That loss ended a string of 19 consecutive home victories, dating back to 1986 against Penn State. 


Multi-li~gual 
Language is first priority for Andre Jones 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 
When he's not 
interdicting opponents' 
communications lines on 
the football field, Andre 
Jones is breaking down 
communications barriers 
off it. 

Notre Dame's senior outside linebacker and third-leading tackler (28, placing him behind Michael Stonebreaker and Chris Zorich) speaks fluent English and Spanish, and studies both Russian and Japanese. 
A government major with a concentration in international relations, Jones has set his sights on a career as a transla­tor, but those' plans are flexible enough to allow for a stint as a professional football player should that possibility arise. 
"I definitely want to play pro football," says Jones, "but I would like to get a job in Washington or overseas as a translator. I will probably take the Foreign Service Exam or go to Russia and finish my second major (Russian)." 
The Hyattsville, Md., native grew up just minutes from Washington, D.C., the nation's center for government and foreign policy. The road which may eventually lead Jones back to his hometown has been long and, at times, winding. 
In a four-year career comprised of equal parts intensity, inconsistency and changing expectations, the one constant has been academics. 
Both of Jones's parents are college graduates and his godfather, Frank (Nordy) Hoffman, played on Knute Rockne's 1930 national championship team. 
"He was one of the Seven Mules who blocked for the Four Horsemen," says Jones with more than a hint of pride. Actually, Hoffman started at left tackle in 1930-31 (earning All-America honors in '31), five years after the Four Horsemen rode to victory in the '25 Rose Bowl. Still, the implication remains. 
His brother, Clarence, Jr., is a West Point graduate currently studying law at Illinois. Andre nearly became a Cadet as well. 
"I was going to go to the academy and run the option for them." said Jones. "I didn't realize there was a five­year commitment." 
Instead, Jones committed himself to Notre Dame for four years, where he was projected as an outside linebacker . He had 87 tackles, 16 sacks and six 

Photo by Andrew McCloskey Jones assists on a goal-line stand in the season-opener against Michigan. Jones missed the Orange Bowl to concentrate on academics, but he has made a solid impact since returning to the starting lineup this fall. 

interceptions in his senior year at DeMatha High School, the same school which spawned former Irish basketball All-American Adrian Dantley. 
Jones was named Maryland defensive player of the year and first-team all-metro by the Washington Post and Washington Times. He also was chosen to play in the Maryland-Pennsylvania Big 33 all-star game. 
Jones ranked second in minutes played among freshmen on defense in '87, second only to cornerback Todd Lyght. He played in all 12 games and recovered a fumble in his only starting assignment at outside linebacker against Penn State. 
But Jones made perhaps his biggest contribution to Notre Dame's special teams, where he was consistently the first player downfield on kickoffs and enthusiastically elicited the support of the home crowd. 
"That intensity is still a big part of my game," says Jones. "It doesn't make much of a difference if the crowd responds, because we're a family. We're closer than any team in the United States. 
"We just want to go out and take care of business." 
As a sophomore, Jones again played in all 12 games, earning starts at drop end against Michigan, Michigan State, Purdue and Navy. He pushed Arnold Ale for the starting defensive end spot during '89 spring drills and claimed the position when Ale transferred to UCLA. 
Jones finished seventh on the team in tackles with 49 in '89, starting every game except Michigan, Michigan State and Miami. He also recorded the first touchdown return of a blocked PAT attempt with a 92-yard runback against SMU. 
Notre Dame completed its '89 schedule with an 11-1 record and earned a berth in the Orange Bowl against top-ranked Colorado. Jones, whose quickness and agili~y vastly improved the Irish pass coverage and pursUit during the regular season, watched from the sidelines as his teammates whipped the Buffaloes, 21-6. 
Academics were the reason Jones and defensive tackle Bob Dahl missed the most important game of the season. 
"Coach Holtz promised me I'd walk away from Notre Dame with my degree," says Jones. "I had Russian and Japanese exams coming up and I made the choice to study, so I couldn't practice. And since I couldn't practice, I couldn't play in the game. 
"I took it pretty hard, but I think it· made me a stronger person." To his credit, Jones has learned to live with his decision. 
"I learned," says Jones, "that when something goes wrong, I need to listen to the coaches instead of resisting­them. That really made a difference in my game." 
Defensive coordinator Gary Darnell's new defensive scheme also has made a difference in Jones's game. 
"It opened me up a little bit more," says Jones. "It lets me use my speed to chase people down and make tackles 
see JONES/page 4 

Irish Football '90 
Friday, October 12, 1990
page 2 
Wishbone could give Notre Dame problems 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame is finding out how much difference a week makes heading into Saturday's game with Air Force. 
And the Falcons are finding out how much difference a year makes. 
The Irish were unbeaten and held the top ranking in the country before playing Stanford last Saturday. They lost the game 36-31, their top ranking and maybe a shot at the national championship. 
Air Force's scenario just cov­ers a little bit longer time span. 
In 1989, the Falcons were riding a six-game winning streak with Heisman Trophy candidate Dee Dowis when the Irish defeated them 41-27 be­fore a record crowd of 53,533 in Falcon Stadium. They fin­ished the season 8-4-1 with an appearance in the Liberty Bowl. 
Air Force has struggled in 1990 without Dowis, posting a 3-3 record after replacing eight offensive and seven defensive starters. That 3-3 mark in­cludes losses to Colorado State (35-33), Wyoming (24-12) and San Diego State (48-18). The wins have come against Hawaii (27-3), Citadel (10-7) and Navy (24-7). 
Saturday's game in Notre Dame Stadium (12:08 p.m. WNDU-TV 16) will be pivotal for both teams. The Irish need to bounce back, while the Falcons need a big performance against a top team. 
The Irish cannot afford to look past 3-3 Air Force to next weekend's showdown with Miami, especially since it was 1-3 Stanford that defeated them last weekend. 
Air Force has defeated Notre Dame just four times in 19 at­tempts, but those victories all came in the 1980s. The Falcons downed the Irish four consecu­tive times from 1982-85. 
"They can say, 'Hey, we beat Notre Dame four years in a row,'" Irish Head Coach Lou Holtz said. "I get as afraid of this ballgame as I do any." 
Notre Dame showed it was not invincible in last weekend's loss to Stanford and that should give Air Force some confidence. Costly penalties and three dropped punts resulted in the Irish falling to eighth in the weekly polls. 
Air Force's biggest assign­ment was to replace Dowis. Ron Gray inherited the job and started the first four games be­fore injuring his left knee in 


The Observer I Matt Mitino 

Lou Holtz and Tony Brooks hope to rebound this weekend against Air 
Force. The Irish will try to begin a new home winning streak after 
Stanford snapped the old mark at 19. 
FAL ON FACES TO WATCH 
warmups before the Wyoming game. Gray, who had surgery Tuesday and will miss the re­mainder of the season, had completed only 7 of 27 passes for 86 yards in those games. 
Sophomore Jarvis Baker took over the starting spot and has completed 5 of 17 passes for 79 yards while rushing 52 times for 149 yards. The Irish will likely see a different offense from last season when Dowis passed for 306 yards. 
The Notre Dame defense has not given up more than 125 rushing yards in the past three games, but Holtz thinks Air Force will test that statistic. 
"Air Force will run the wish­bone as well as anybody," he said. "Air Force controls the football and they don't make very many mistakes. You aren't going to beat it because of your personnel. You beat it with dis­cipline and execution, and that's what the game will come down to. 
"They always do something a little bit different. If you stop the fullback, the quarterback hurts you. If you stop the quar­terback running, he hurts you throwing. If you stop both of those, they get you with the tailback or the halfback on pitches. There's no way you can totally stop the wishbone." 
The two fullbacks in the wishborte -senior Rodney Lewis and junior Jason Jones -are the big rushers for the Falcons. Jones has carried 61 times for 322 yards, while Lewis has 279 yards on 70 carries. Junior halfback DeShawn Durham has gained 142 yards and scored three touchdowns. 
Something will have to give between the Air Force running game and the Notre Dame de­fense. The Falcons average 4.3 yards per carry and 257 rush­ing yards per game, while the Irish give up just 3.6 yards per carry and 120 total yards per game. 
Notre Dame has had success against a tough Air Force run­ning game in the past. In 1988, the Falcons were ranked first nationally averaging 432 rush~ ing yards, but the Irish held them to 170 yards. In 1989, the Falcons were first again with 449 rushing yards per game, but the Irish held them to 168 yards. 
The inexperienced Irish sec­ondary could get a breather this weekend. The Falcons have passed for only 189 total yards, an average of 31.5 yards per game. In contrast, Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer throws for over 170 yards per game. 
Something will also give be­tween the Air Force defense and the Notre Dame offense. The Irish rush for 237 yards per game, while the Falcons al­low only 108 yards on the ground per game. The Falcons allowed Navy just 31 net rush­ing yards last weekend. 
If the Irish cannot run, Mirer could have success in the air. Air Force gives up 205 passing yards per game. Mirer has thrown for 685 yards in his first four games. 
Senior linebacker Brian Hill is continuing a brilliant defensive career for the Falcons. After leading the team in tackles in 1988 and 1989, Hill is tops again with 55 in the first six games. 
Both Air Force and Notre Dame have good kicking games. Falcon junior Joe Wood has hit 10 of 11 field goal attempts this season, including a career-best three last weekend against Navy from 32, 34 and 47 yards. He is on pace to set the all-time field goal mark for Air Force. 
Notre Dame's Craig Hentrich is averaging 45 yards per punt and has hit 4 of 5 field goals. That punting average would set a new Notre Dame mark if he can maintain it throughout the season. 




Fisher DeBerry 
In his seventh season as head coach, DeBerry has a 51-28-1 record. He has led the Falcons to four bowl appearances in the past six seasons. His 1985 team was ranked fifth in the country after it posted a 12-1 record. 
Jarvis Baker 

Baker has started the past two games after Ron Gray injured his knee in warmups against Wyoming. Baker has completed 5 of 17 passes for 79 yards and has rushed 52 times for 149 yards. 
Rodney Lewis 
The senior fullback has carried the ball 70 times for 279 yards and one touchdown. He is a threat running out of the wishbone offense. Lewis gained 1,063 yards in 1989 as a junior. 
Jason Jones 

The junior fullback has carried 61 times for 322 yards and two touchdowns. Along with Lewis, he is one of Air Force's leading threats out of the wishbone. He gained 193 yards in 1989 as a sophomore. 
Joe Wood 
The junior placekicker has converted on 1 0 of 11 field goals this season. He was third on the Air Force team in scoring with 78 points, connecting on 1 0 of 13 field goals. 

Irish Football '90 
Friday, October 12, 1990 page 3 
Pro wrestling was first love for Greg Davis 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
To most of the Notre Dame 
faithful. the legend of the Four 
Horsemen is synonymous with 
ballcarrying excellence, but to 
strong safety Greg Davis, it 
means something much differ­
ent. 
To Davis, the Four Horsemen are not just Dan Miller, Elmer Layden, Harry Stuhldreher and Jim Crowley. These fellows may have assaulted opposing defen­sive lines for the Irish in the 1920's, but the Four Horsemen that Davis always has known are pro wrestlers. 
"The Four Horsemen were the bad guys," recalls Davis, who as a child watched the wrestlers on television. "They beat people up, hit them when they weren't looking, and all that illegal stuff. My brothers and I imitated them, pretending we were the horsemen. Everybody beat up on one per­son." 
It wasn't just the Horsemen. He and his brothers had posters of wrestlers all over their room: Ric Flair, Jake "the Snake", "Hacksaw" Butch Reed, "Bruiser" Brody, the "Great Kabuki" and, of course, Kamala the Ugandan Giant. 
"We were all going to be pr_o­fessional wrestlers," says Davis. "In my neighborhood, we put a carpet outside and got in different corners to wrestle. We'd even make the tag on the tag-team." 
Through his days of growing up in Hollywood, Fla., however, Davis gradually abandoned his hopes of reaching the pro ranks of wrestling. Despite his older brother Benny's considerable success in wrestling in high school-he finished second in the state one year-Davis wanted to play football. 
"I always liked football, but I'm not sure I would have played because my mom didn't want me to," says Davis. "But my brothers said, 'Aw, let him play,' and that's how I got to be able to play." 
Davis dabbed a little in high school wrestling, as he played two years, and he also earned four letters in track. In football, he doubled as a running back and free safety for McArthur High School, earning a scholarship to Notre Dame. 
DEPTH CHART 
The youngest of six children, 
Davis was the only one to at­
tend a four-year university. 
"I think about my family a 
lot," says Davis. "In a way, I'm 
doing all this for them. 
Everybody wants to be proud of 
me and have confidence in me." 
Having secured the starting 
spot at free safety this season 
and played solidly throughout, 
Davis seems to have given his 
family reason to be confident. 
Notre Dame coaches in particu­
lar have come to rely oil this 6­
1, 205-pound senior's consis­
tency on a young and inexperi­
enced secondary. 
"I think Greg Davis has been 
playing consistently well," said 
Notre Dame head coach Lou 
Holtz. "Greg Davis has played 
very well for what we've asked 
him to do." 
In the absence of All-America 
cornerback Todd Lyght, who 
missed games against Michigan 
State and Purdue this season 
because of a pulled hamstring, 
Davis has been asked to con­
tribute as the only upperclass­
man on the secondary. Lyght's 
fill-in, Greg Lane, and free 
safety Tom Carter are fresh­
men, and cornerback Reggie 
Brooks is a sophomore. 
"Todd (Lyght) was kind of the leader of the secondary," says Davis. "He had been in all those situations before. We had con­fidence in Greg Lane's abilities, but it was different not seeing Todd in there. 
"I think in pratice more guys were looking up toward me. It's natural, looking for upper­classmen to see certain things." When the underclassmen watched Davis they saw a player that has paid his dues in ,his earlier years and now is 
getting his playing time. During 
the preseason drills in his 
freshman year, Davis switched 
from running back to the sec­
ondary. In the midst of a tran­
sition from offense to defense, 
he did not play during his 
freshman year. 
As a sophomore, he earned the backup strong safety posi­tion behind veteran George Streeter and played extensively on special teams. In the follow­ing year he played in all 13 games behind another veteran at strong safety, this time D'Juan Francisco. Recording 23 tackles, Davis also appeared in 80 special teams plays. 
P 
FULLBACK 
29 Rodney Lewis Falcon Offense 30 Jason Jones 
TIGHT END 89 DavidMott 90 lee Jones 
HALFBACK 34 Chris Howard HALFBACK 11 Dan Zdroik
p P 
24 DeShawn Durham 
QUARTERBACK
22 Jeremy Griffin 
5 Jarv1s Baker 
SPLIT END 
7 Rob Perez 

GUARD ~ 
63 Gr~ Burger
PPi!rpp
CENTER TACKLE 57 David T. Young 74 Thomas Maurer 53 leroy Strain 76 James Ramsey 
Irish Defense NOSE TACKLE 
50 Chris Zorich 
TACKLE 
96 Marc deManigold 
69 George Williams 
95 Junior Bryant 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 37 Scott Kowalkowski 45 Devon McDonald 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 42 Michael Stonebreaker 30 Nick Smith 
CORNERBACK 41 Reggie Brooks 21 Rod Smith FREE SAFETY 
13 Tom Carter -
-

27 George Poorman 
29 John Covington 


......... 
The Observer I Matt Mitino Greg Davis has been one of the most consistent players in an inexpenenced secondary this season. When he was young, Davis dreamed of being a professional wrestler. 
This season his tally already is up to 18, sixth-best on the team. And look for Davis more in games such as Air Force, be­cause he thrives on offenses like the Falcons' wishbone, in which the offense, rolling right or left, has many options to whom it can flip the ball. 
"I like to get a pick (interception) every now and then, but I like to play against the run more than the pass," says Davis, who has not gotten his preference against offenses like Purdue's run-and-shoot and Stanford's quick-pass. "It seems like you get more in­volved with the wishbone. You find a way to get involved." 
In the last two games, Notre Dame has allowed 354 and 256 passing yards against Purdue and Stanford, respectively. This week it has switched gears and has been preparing for the run. 
"We've pretty much been a little more intense in practice," says Davis. "We know that to be a great football team we have to be better as a defensive unit. Everybody knows what we have to do. Basically we just have to The Observer 1 Scott McCann 
communicate from each other, Davis grew up watching professional wrestling, but eventually worKed and we just have to keep toward a football career. He learned under veterans George Streeter getting better." and D'Juan Francisco. 

40 Ed McCaffrey 80 Chns Walsh 
GUARD 65 Ron James 72 Jeff Davies 
TACKLE 70 Steed Lobotzke 58 Mike Lehnhard1 
TACKLE 93 Bob Dahl 81 Eric Jones 

OUTSIDE LINEBACKER
1!498 Shawn Smith 7 Andre Jones 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 
36 Donn Grimm 
31 Demetrius DuBosef!4 

~ CORNERBACK 
STRONG SAFETY 1 Todd Lyght 26 Greg Davis 33 Greg lane 

Irish Offense 
FLANKER 25 Raghib Ismail 17 Shawn Davis 
~ 
~ 
TIGHT END 86 Derek Brown 841rv Smith 
Falcon Defense 
. . . 

TAILBACK 12 Ricky Watters 40 Tony Brooks 


FULLBACK 5 Rodney Culver 6 Jerome Bettis SPLrTENO 83 Tony Smith QUARTERBACK 
87 Lake Dawson 3 RickMirer TACKLE 
15 Kevin McDougal 73 Justin Hall 
&. 
TACKLE 53 Winston Sandri ~ 64 Peter Rausch 
'~"j-~~ 

TACKLE
66 Chris Baker , 
80 Chris James 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER ~ 
96 Clifton Lovelace ' ' 45 Jason Bowers -. -~. 
INSIDE LINEBACKER-.--~-··-­
~ 
95 J.T. Tokish , 59 Mark Moody W 
CORNERBACK ~ 3 Carlton McDonald STRONG SAFETY 14 Bobby Thomas 25 Shanon Yates 32 Alex Armour 

GUARD CENTER 7 4 Mirko Jurkovic 55 Mike Heldt 72 Joe Allen 61 Tim Ruddy 
NOSE TACKLE 96 Steve Brennan 62 Shane Bonham 

b 'tj""'"-b 82TonyCates 

~ OUTSIDE LINEBACKER ~ 

· 97 Vergil Simpson ~-71 Rod Stephan · 
~ INSIQE. LINEBACKER 46 Bnan Hill ~ 47 Kette Dornbush ~ 
~ 
FREE SAFETY 40 Eldrick Hill 33 Anlione Banks 


--------___
... 
i 
I 
r I \ \ !' 1 
I Irish Football '90 
Friday, October 12, 1990 
When Air Force ruled the Irish 
By KEN TYSIAC Scott ran it back 77 yards for a put an end to Notre Dame's Associate Sports Editor touchdown. The field goal losing streak against the would have given Notre Dame Falcons. 
It is unlikely that many of an 18-13 lead. Instead, the "I don't think I have to say an Notre Dame's football players touchdown and subsequent awful lot about that. The main will lose sleep Friday night over two-point conversion provided thing we want to do is we justthe Air Force team that is com­the winning margin in a 21-15 want to win. I'm tired of it. I ing into Notre Dame Stadium Air Force victory. know the players are tired of it. this weekend. It's unbelievable the way the 
The Falcons are 30-point un­That loss was especially bitter players have hung in there over derdogs heading into Saturday's for the Irish, who had lost to Air this thing. Our players don't game. They have lost their last Force on a blocked kick just need to be reminded that we've four meetings with the Irish. two years before. In that 1983 lost," Holtz said before the Irish But Air Force was not always match, Mike Johnston's 31-yard went out and annihilated the regarded so lightly in South field goal attempt was knocked Falcons 31-3. Bend. to the ground as time expired to 
seal a 23-22 Falcon victory. Since Holtz took over, Notre 
For a period of four years That loss overshadowed an Dame has a winning streak of during Gerry Faust's tenure as outstanding performance by its own to boast about. In four head coach of Notre Dame, the Irish tailback Allen Pinkett, who straight victories, the Irish have Irish could not buy a victory rushed for 197 yards and outscored the Falcons by a 148­
against the Falcons. At one time caught five passes for 93 57 margin. Even with a strongNotre Dame was 11-0 versus additional yards. 17th-ranked squad featuringAir Force, but the Falcons beat Faust just couldn't seem to Heisman Trophy candidate Dee 
Notre Dame four straight times figure out how to stop Air Dowis last year, the best Air from 1982-1985, outscoring the Force's wishbone offense. Force could muster versus Irish 95-61. The Falcons gave "I think one of the problems is Boltz's troops was a 41-27 Faust nightmares. that not too many teams run setback in Colorado Springs. 
"You talk about purgatory, that type of wishbone," Faust I've been through purgatory said in 1985. "This presents Since this year's Falcon team with Air Force," Faust said be­problems when you don't have is even weaker, the Irish are not fore his last matchup with the the opportunity to run against it likely to lose any sleep over Falcons in 1985. week in and week out. And they their opponents this week. But 
are so well disciplined. With the don't expect Faust, now head The Irish went on to lose that type of players they have, I'd coach at Akron to add Air Force game when Air Force blocked a run exactly the same thing if I to the Zips' schedule. He's 37 -yard field goal attempt by was at the Air Force Academy." probably glad that he has John Carney with five minutes In 1986, first-year Irish coach escaped his annual bout with 
left and defensive back A.J. Lou Holtz was determined to purgatory. 
Michigan teams set for Big 10 showdown Jones 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) -Saturday is a new challenge." Ten titles outright and the first 22 Indiana (4-0); New Mexico at continued from page 1 
Michigan State coach George Michigan State's biggest chal­to play in three straight Rose No. 23 Wyoming (6-0); No. 24 Perles wants his Spartans to lenge may be to stop the run­Bowl games since the 
Mississippi (4-1) at Georgia, on the other side of the field. understand that each day ning of Jon Vaughn, who has Wolverines did it after the and Wisconsin at No. 25 Iowa Now I have a direct read, so I brings a new challenge -an 672 yards and six touchdowns 1977, '78 and '79 seasons. (3-1 ). read things faster. old rival, maybe, but a new and averages 168.8 yards per The rest of Saturday's sched­Last year, Texas beat "It has helped me get around challenge. game. ule has North Carolina State at Oklahoma 28-24, and that the ball all the time." Michigan State (1-2-1) travels Michigan averages 481 yards No. 2 Virginia (5-0); Kansas at doesn't sit well with this year's Even though he is not a cap­tain, Jones feels a big responsi­
to Ann Arbor to meet No. 1 per game, 304 of them on the No. 3 Miami (3-1); Texas vs. No. Sooners, who have abandoned bility to provide the youngerMichigan (3-1) on on Saturday ground. The Spartans average 4 Oklahoma (5-0) at Dallas; the wishbone for a pass-and­Irish players with senior lead­in a game with renewed impor­376 yards in total offense, 202 Vanderbilt at No. 6 Auburn (3-run (-formation. 
ership.

tance. on the ground. 0-1); No. 9 Florida (5-0) at No. Virginia, idle last week, "I have to step up to the frontThe Wolverines are playing for "Our line has had some time 5 Tennessee (3-0-2); Missouri at throws the nation's most pro­and provide leadership," saysa Rose Bowl bid and possible together," Wolverines blocking No. 7 Nebraska (5-0), and Air lific offense (41.4 points per Jones. "My job is to show them national championship. Failing back Jarrod Bunch said. "That Force at No. 8 Notre Dame (3-game) at the Wolfpack. North the way." 
to live up to high expectations, extra year is what's made them 1). Carolina State has allowed just l"he Irish took a wrong turn the Spartans fell out of the so good right now. But anytime Also: Purdue at No. 11 Illinois 9. 7 points per game, sixth in on the way to the national rankings with losses to Notre we play Michigan State it's al­(3-1); Colorado State at No. 13 the nation, but that's after championship last week in their Dame and Iowa, and now are ways been a hard-hitting game. Brigham Young (4-1); Iowa playing the likes of Appalachian 36-31 loss to Stanford, but struggling to stay in the Big Ten I think it's going to be a real State at No. 14 Colorado (4-1-State. North Carolina State beat Jones remains optimistic about chase. tough game Saturday." 1); No. 15 Clemson (5-1) at No. Appalachian State 56-0 last Notre Dame's shot at the na­
tional title. 

"The first thing we have to do Tico Duckett has rushed for 18 Georgia Tech (4-0); No. 16 week. 
"The expectations aren't
is go back to basics and fun­489 yards and two touchdowns Southern Cal (4-1) at Stanford; gone," says Jones. "We havedamentals," Perles said. "You for Michigan State. No. 19 Oregon (4-1) at No. 17 Tennessee leads its series with seven more games against fivehave to make sure you're doing The Wolverines won their last Washington (4-1); No. 20 Texas Florida 13-6 and has an offense top 20 opponents. I feel that inthose things well and then just national title in 1948. Michigan A&M ( 4-1) at No. 12 Houston that averages 41.6 points per 
the next seven games, we'll 
get into your game plan ... un­is trying to become the first (4-0); No. 21 Arizona (4-1) at game. The Vols are 4 1/2-point (change) a lot of negative opin­
derstanding that every team to win three straight Big Oregon State; Ohio State at No. favorites. ions." 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, Bill Bilinski of The South Bend Tribune and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the 
C'­

outcomes of the week's major 

\ college football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. Ken Tysiac Chris Cooney Frank Pastor Bill Bilinski Chuck Freeby Greg Guffey Scott Brutocao In other words, it isn't enough Associate Assistant Associate South Bend Guest Celebrity Sports Editor Assistant to pick the winner of a given Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor Tribune 24-29-3 22-31-3 Sports Editor game. The person must pick the 32-21-3 26-27-3 25-28-3 24-29-3 Last week: Last week: 21-32-3 winner and give the underdog Last week: Last week: Last Week: Last week: 5-9 8-6 Last week: points. 11-3 4-10 9-5 8-6 5-9 





MICHIGAN 11. 5 over Mich. St Wolverines Wolverines Spartans Spartans Wolverines Spartans Spartans Clemson 1 over Ga. TECH Tigers Yellow Jackets Yellow Jackets Yellow Jackets Tigers Tigers Tigers PENN STATE 5 over Syracuse Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions INDIANA 5.5 over Ohio State Buckeyes Hoosiers Buckeyes Buckeyes Hoosiers Hoosiers Buckeyes 
Usc 6 over STANFORD Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans Cardinal WASH 4.5 over Oregon Ducks Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Ducks Huskies Oklahoma 8.5 over Texas Sooners Longhorns Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners TENNESSEE 4 over Florida Gators Volunteers Gators Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers HOUSTON 5.5 over Texas AM Cougars Cougars Aggies Aggies Aggies Aggies Cougars 
ILLINOIS 19 over Purdue lllini lllini lllini lllini Boilermakers Boilermakers Boilermakers BYU 16.5 over Colorado State Rams Rams Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars Rams GEORGIA 4 over Mississippi Bulldogs Rebels Rebels Bulldogs Rebels Bulldogs Bulldogs VIRGINIA 17 over Nc state Cavaliers Wolfpack Cavaliers Cavaliers Cavaliers Wolfpack Cavaliers 
NO 30 over Air Force Falcons Falcons Irish Irish Falcons Falcons Irish 








