
VOL. XXIII NO. 46 TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• 

Marines order first reserves 
Pentagon may send more units by year's end 
WASIIINGTON (AP)-The All of the more than 34,000 but President Bush has not 
Marine Corps is ordering the reserves from all the armed ruled out the use of force to first call-up of reservists for services already called to active oust Iraq from occupied 
combat roles in the Persian Gulf duty for Operation Desert Kuwait. crisis, a Pentagon source said Shield are being used in sup­The Pentagon has been under Friday. port roles such as truck driving, pressure from some congres­
The Marine call-up is rela­water purification and military sional leaders to use combat tively small and will not add intelligence. The Marines had reserves. Defense Secretary substantially to the U.S. combat accounted for only 200 of the Dick Cheney had resisted using capabilities in the gulf. How­34,000 total. them, saying the 180-day max­ever, the Pentagon is consider­The Murine infantrymen be­imum period of activation for ing calling major Army reserve ing called up will be among ap­reserves was too short to make 
combat units to active duty, proximately 800 reservists in u good use of them, even though possibly before year's end. variety of military jobs being some Army three-brigade divi­
The Marines will cull up indi­ordered to report for active sions were designed with one vidual infantrymen from vari­duty later this week, the source brigade a reserve brigade. ous units around the country, said. Such divisions now in Saudi not entire units, the source The source declined to say Arabia took an active duty bri­
said. how many of the 800 are in gade from elsewhere in the 
The New York Times reported combat roles. Army, rather than the so-called Monday that the Pentagon al­Use of reserves in combat "round-out" brigades, when ready has decided to put major jobs is politically sensitive be­they let for the Persian Gulf. 
rnserve combat units on active cause it can be viewed as Congressional concern was 
duty. Maj. Doug llart, a Pen­putting the country on a erased earlier this month when tagon spokesman, said he was wartime footing. No shots have Congress, shortly before ad­unaware of any such decision been fired in the confrontation journing, doubled the limit on 
and that no combat units had with Iraq, other than warnings active duty service for combat bnen activated. shots across the bows of ships, reserves to 360 days. 
Prostitutes can be 'addicted to lifestyle,' says Washington 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR the prostitute that is often con­parlor owners, those who make However, Washington said children, both boys and girls, 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor veyed on a television or movie movies, substances, protection, that given a chance to do some­involved in prostitution. 
screen. While a naive viewer and health care." thing else, some prostitutes Judging from the past, 
may believe that her "prince In addition to the safety and wouldn't choose another pro­Washington doesn't sec the 
charming" will rescue her from disease risks of prostitution and fession since "some people can elimination of prostitution as a 
the streets as Edward did to control others have over get addicted to that lifestyle, not realistic goal. She identified
"We have this fascination 
Vivian (Pretty Woman), Wash­finances, Washington said knowing what the next 30 many pr()stitutes as having "a
with hookers, whores, and 
ington said that prostitution is prostitutes are "in jeopardy minutes or hour will be like." belief of little human value" or
loose women," said Patricia 
illegal, dangerous, and with law officials-they are "needing a man in their lives." 
Washington in her lecture yes­"(prostitutes) are more likely to often encouraged to be infor­Around the world, many In answer to the question of
tt~rday. 
wind up dead." mants." Worldwide, there are women are forced into prosti­offering alternative jobs,In her lecture. "International Furthermore, the "hooker "literally millions of women tution to survive. Washington Washington stated the difficultyProstitution: The Economics of with a heart of gold" and the working in a clandestine fash­asked, "What happens (during is to "convince a woman toSex." Washington, director of hooker who is out to save the ion." war) when men are killed? decide to work for minimum
Minority International and 
world are myths, according to Washington described pros­What do women do to survive? wage at MeDonald's rather than
Nontraditional Student Life, 
Washington. "There is a signif­titution as merely an exchange They don't pick up a machete, turn a couple of tricks." 
said that "prostitution is one of 
icant number of women who of money for sexual favors and they use what is at hand."
the hottest topics now," 
are selling themselves not be­"a transaction that does not in­She cautioned against in­Moviegoers who have seen cause it's glamorous but be­volve emotion. It is cold and Washington traced the evo­volvement in prostitution sinceTotal Hecall or Pretty Woman cause of economic necessity. clinical." Prostitutes work ei­lution of prostitution from the "once you have been identifiedcan attest to this statement, she "(Prostitution) is u lucrative ther full-or part-time "because initial "laissez-faire" attitude to as a prostitute, it's hard to getaddnd. 
business. The majority of the of limited opportunities or be­the current "white, black, and out of that. You are already in­Washington dispelled the 

money they make goes to

"glamorous and glittery" life of 
pimps, madames, massage 


AP Photo 

Moscow says 'No!' 
Approximately 154 pounds of narcotics and various kinds of weaponry were confiscated from dope pushers and their clients in Moscow Wednesday. The seizure took place on October 24 and was the result of a series of operations by the drug fighting squad of the Moscow Interior Ministry Department. 
cause (other) jobs are unavail­brown slave trade." There is volved with elements of the un­able." also an increasing number of derworld." 
Arturo discusses fictional themes 
By PATRICK The predominant literary ously engrossed with European theme, according to Arias, that surrealism and also Marxism. 
NINNEMAN 

conflicted with social realism 
News Writer 

was the avant-garde, surrealist Arias said that these writers 
position that literature created "pushed for a literary synthesis 
Arturo Arias, an award win­its own universe, and needed that incorporated cultural iden­
ning author and a professor at no overt social relevance. tity and also reshaped literary 
the University of California, San Arias said that the rise of form." The incorporation of 
Francisco, spoke Monday on communism further heightened identity would satisfy social re­
the conflict between imagi­the struggle between the two alism, while reshaping literary 
native and experimental fiction themes, for communists at­form would approach a surre­
and socially realistic literary tacked surreal writing as mere alistic style of literature. 
fiction in the twentieth century. bourgeois decadence. Stalin's 
Arias focused on Central Amer­Soviet regime, according to This synthesis continued into 
ican and Caribbean authors, Arias, argued that all art the 1960's and 70's, according 
and their development of these "should enlighten and uplift the to Arias. lie noted that propo­
divergent themes. masses. Art should push the nents of surrealism wanted fic­
Arias said that for Central masses toward revolution." tion that required an active, 
America, and also for the Arias mentioned that surreal­participatory reader, rather 
world, the 1920's saw the be­ist literature failed to spark the than a complacent acceptor of 
ginnings of this interesting con­masses, for it's language and any text's ideas. Social realists 
flict. Mexico underwent a revo­style often were too compli­wanted literature that appeared 
lution in the years following cated to be accessible to the av­relevant and accessible to all 
World War I. This upheaval erage reader. readers, rather than an elite 
sparked many Mexican journal­few. 
ists to turn towards fiction as a Two individuals, according to 
reflective forum for social Arias, began to combine these Arias said much of Latin 
commentary. Arias said that two themes of fiction writing American fiction during the 
"many saw fiction as a vehicle into a cohesive unit. These 1980's moved further towards 
of reality, a mirror of culture writers were Alejo Carpentier surrealism for it "viewed reality 
and history." He called this de­of Cuba, and Miguel Asturias of in terms of possible avenues for 
velopment social realism. Mexico. Both were simultane-society to go." 
Tuesday, November 6, 1990

page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
WEATHER 

Stereotypes lead to distorted views 
It's halftime of Monday night foot­ball's game the Cleveland Browns and the Denver Broncos. ABC runs a promo­tional spot for its series, "Coach," in 


which the three . . coaches discuss which Alicia Reale 
team will win the Business Copy Editor game. One of the men --------­says regardless of the game's outcome the Browns can't win because even if they beat Denver they still have to go back to Cleve­land. 
Drumroll, laughter, and out comes an­other easy joke based on a stereotypical view of the city of Cleveland. Never mind that the city has a cultural and entertain­ment heritage that few cities can match­quality museums, professional perfor­mances, major sporting events, magnificent 
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 6. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © ~ ~ m EZ3 0 X 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Yesterday's high: 55 Yesterday's low: 39 Nation's high: 86(Fort Meyers, Fla.) Nation's low: 8(Sioux Falls,S.D.) 
Forecast: Partly cloudy today with scattered showers. Highs in the lower to mid 40's. Tonight, continued cloudy with lows on the 30's. Tomorrow highs in the low to mid 40's, mostly cloudy. 

park systems and suburbs equal to those of any city. Regardless of these facts, all that anyone remembers is the burning of the Cuyahoga River 20 years ago. 
Here at this geographically diverse Uni­versity your first identity consists of where you're from. At orientation the first ques­tion a first-year student hears is, "What's your name?" which is inevitably followed by, "So, where are you from?" Thus the stereo­type begins. 
Being from Cleveland, a city which is con­stantly ridiculed, the stereotyping began for me day one of my collegiate experience. Ini­tially I was irritated by the countless jokes from, "Is the river still burning?" to "When is the last time the Cleveland Indians won a pennant?" I have now, however, grown so accustomed to this I simply tell people "Yes I'm from Cleveland, no jokes please!" 
People have preconceptions concerning just about every region of the country. Not a day goes by that my roommate from Wis­consin is not teased about being a cheese­head. 
Students from the South are expected to include a ya'll in every sentence, those from Iowa are said to have corn growing from their ears and all New Yorkers' accents are imitated after their every word. Texans are believed to wear ten gallon hats, cowboy boots and revere Conway Twitty. 
Although a good knee-slapper can often be derived from these stereotypes, we tend to overlook the misleading fallacies of these preconceptions. All too often, they are based on trite generalizations which lead to distorted views. 
We have a tendency to establish ideas without legitimate experience or factual data. We impassively accept common defini­tions, not venturing to formulate indepen­dent opinions. 
As students at this University we are challenged to overcome these stereotypes. Get to know people for who they are and what interests them. Who knows? They might surprise you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's  Staff:  Sports  
Frank Pastor  
News  Scoreboard: 

Joe Moody Rene FerranChristine Stephan 
ProductionAccent 
Molly Flecker 
Jennifer Guerin Christine Anderson 
Ad Design 
Viewpoint
Amy Eckert Dannika Simpson Jay Colucci 
Joy Mueller Systems
luke lytell Jennifer McCarter Gilbert Gomez Bernard Brenninkmeyer 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
OF INTEREST 

Discerning life decisions-are you interested Christmas Around the World '90. As a in religious life? Do you have questions you would like reminder to representative from student groups partie­answered? If so, a Discernment Group has begun for ipating, an organizational meeting will be held Wed, Nov. young women who would like to come together to share, 7 at 7:30 pm in the Notre Dame Room, second floor of pray, and discern to what they're being called. For more LaFortune. Questions? Call Karen or David, Student Ac-info call Sisters of Holy Cross membership office M-F 8-tivities Office (7308). 
4:30 at 284-4466. Ask for either Sr. Marilyn Zugish, CSC or Sr. Patricia Riley, CSC. Fireside Chat regarding the "Change in u.s. Foreign Policy towards the Middle East" will take place
Off campus students may pick up phone books Thursday, Nov. 8 from 7-9 p.m. in the Cavanaugh Hall at the student government office secretary's office on the basement. Professor Patrick Gaffney will be the guest second floor of LaFortune. Mon-Fri. from 9-5. speaker. The event is sponsored by the Muslim Students' 
association. 

Notre Dame Orchestra Concert will present a Fall Concert Tues. Nov. 6 at 8pm in Washington ISO Banquet will be held on Friday, Nov. 9 and Hall. Guy Victor Bordo will conduct the orchestra with tickets are on sale at the ISO office in LaFortune. faculty member Carolyn Plummer as violin soloist. The program features Mozart's Overture to "Don Giovanni," 
J.S. Bach's Concerto for Violin in A minor, and India Association of Notre Dame pre­Beethoven's Symphony No. 4 in B-flat. The concert is free sents: Diwali 1990 (Festival of Lights) Location: Wash­and open to the public ington High School, Sat. Nov. 10, 5-11 pm. Authentic In­
dian food catered from Chicago and Entertainment fea­
Semester Around the World informational meetings. One is at SMC, Chameleon Room, Nov. 7 ant 
6:30 pm. Another is at the Notre Dame Library Audi­torium, Nov. 6 at 5:30 pm. For more information, call Kelly at 284-5116. 
All club presidents are reminded to check their mailbox outside room 207 LaFortune periodically. 
WORLD 

Tension mounted in Haiti on Monday, the eve of a ruling on whether supporters of the Duvalier dictatorship that terrorized the country for nearly three decades can run in the December elections.The Electoral Council was expected Tuesday to ban at least three Duvalierists from participating, and many Haitians worried such a ruling could unleash a wave of violent retaliation as it did in 1987."November evokes for some a vision of apocalypse," Jean Dominique, director of the independent Radio Haiti­Inter, said in a radio commentary. "In 1987, disqualified candidates put an already devastated country to the torch."'As night fell Monday on the capital of Port-au­Prince, where more than 1 million people live, huge traffic jams formed as Haitians stocked up on supplies and food in case of violence. 
NATIONAL 

turing classical dancers from India, modern Indian drama, music of India. Tickets 8$ to $10. Contact: Sunil Dixit, Dinesh Kulkarni 272-0251/ 289-7506. 
Anyone interested in participating in Art Expo '90, an informal exhibit to be held Nov 12-14, should sign up today in the SUB office from 3-5 or call 239-7757. 
King Hussein of Jordan warned that "no one will leave a winner" from a war in the Persian Gulf and said Monday he fears armed conflict might be imminent.The Jordanian monarch made his remarks during an inter­view with Radio France International before meeting with President Francois Mitterrand.The king told RFI that na­tions contributing to the multinational force in the gulf are beginning to rethink the possibility of war in the world's largest oil-producing region. He named no spe­cific nations.Asked if he thought war was imminent, Hus­sein responded: "If it's going to happen, it will be very imminent. But I don't wish it.""If we look at the situation on the ground, there exists the possibility of an incident happening, either by accident or on purpose," Hussein 
said. 
MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC 
On November 6: 
eln 1869: The first official inter­collegiate football game was played in New Brunswick, N.J. Rutgers beat Princeton, six goals to four. 
eln 1913: Mohandas Gandhi was arrested as he led a march of Indian miners in South Africa. 
eln 1977: 39 people were killed when an earthen dam burst, sending a 30-foot wall of water through the cam­pus of Toccoa Falls Bible College in Georgia. · 
eln 1978: Two days after the Iranian hostage crisis began, Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan and his gov­ernment resigned, leaving Ayatollah Khomeini and his Revolutionary Council in control of Iran. 

The Environmental Protection Agency said Monday that large cities and heavily populated suburban counties must develop programs to reduce contamination of water that flows through storm sewers.The requirements apply to cities with a population of more than 100,000 as well as to heavily populated suburban counties and is hoped to reduce the discharge of pollutants into public storm sewer systems and eventually into public waterways.The EPA said that about 100,000 industrial facilities also must obtain federal permits for discharging water into pubHc sewer 
systems.The new EPA rules are required by a 1987 law that ordered the agency to reduce runoff pollution in water that flows into storm sewers. Storm water often contains a wide range of pollutants including toxic pesticides from lawns and oil or grease from roads and parking lots. 

{} 2.74 
Dow Jones Industrials 2502.23 ~ 11.39 
Precious Metals 

Gold {} $3.10 to $379.50/oz. Silver {} 4.3¢ to $4.203oz. 
Tuesday, November 6, 1990 
The Observer page 3 

ager of the student business is deemed appropriate by the Stu­

By PETER AMEND 
to be notified of the impending dent Senate or the General

News Writer 
vote and has the option to ad­Manager of the Student Busi­dress the Senate before such a ness Board. vote is conducted. • Probationary status will be 

In Student Senate this week, a reviewed by the Student Senate new amendment was proposed • Probation will be considered at the beginning of the follow­that would provide the Student upon, but not limited to: ing school year. This review Business Board an explicit 1 ) A net loss exceeding $2000 shall result in, but is not limited 
course of aetion in the event of from the previous fiscal year. to: a failing stud1~nt business. 2) Ethical breaches of con­1) The removal of probation­
Lisa Hostwick, senator of dis­duct. ary status. trict 2, who submittnd the pro­3) Suggestion of the Student 2) An additional year of pro­posal, said "The idea of ac­Body Treasurer. bation. countability is what the Student • Probation will consist of, but 3) Termination or restructur­
Senate is trying to do." not limited to: ing of the student business. The amendment states: 1) The Manager of the stu­• A student business will be 
• Upon suggestion of the Stu­dent business reporting to the terminated or restructured dmlt Body Treasurer, the Stu­Student Senate each semester, after two years of probation, d!~nt Senate may place a stu­as to the current status of the and a third renewal of proba­
dent business on probation, business. tionary status. with a majority vote. The Man-2) Any other measures 
Also discussed at the Student Senate meeting was the $2,292 net profit Adworks made for the month of September. This

RESPECT Hts 
!/li' 
profit gain projects a better future for Adworks in light of last year's $10,000 loss.

HOLY NAME ~-\:"'_,_ 
Stop Cursing iA 
Persecution of homosexuals is talked about in seminar 
By CLAIRE ROBINSON that while people do not auto­News Writer matically assunw that lwtero­sexuals are sexually aetive, they 
Most homosexuals have expe­always seem to assume that rienced some type of psycholog­homosexuals are. 
ical repercussions, ranging Nugent also discussed the is­from silence to violence, as a sue of hetnrosexism-thn bnliof result of their homosexuality, that one sexual orientation is said Father Hobert Nugent, an superior to anotlwr. lie also 
author and editor. defined homonegativity as an 
Seventy-three percent of attitude of partial acceptance of these violent incidents are not homosexuality, but at the same reported, said Nugent, because time a conviction that one the homosexual victims who do should not equate homosexual­report them are often subject to ity with heterosexuality. further abuse by authorities, The seminar consist1~d of dis­and because they must admit cussions, videos, case studies, a they are gay. questionnaire, and lectures 
Nineteen percent of these in­given by both Nugtmt and Sister cidents of violence, victimiza­Jeannine Gramick, the editor of tion and defamation occur on a book on homosexual clergy.college campuses, Nugent said. The two have been conducting
Nugent spoke at a seminar ti­seminars in Indiana and Michi­tled "Homophobia in Heligion gan since October 29, spon­and Society," which was held sored by the New York-based Monday at Notre Dame. Center for IIomophobia Educa­The seminar was designed to tion. provide education and to facili­Participants introduced tate discussion on the issue of themselves as clergy members, homophobia in light of current parents of homosexuals, coun­scientific information and con­selors, and homosexuals. Hea­temporary church teaching. sons they gave for attending the 
Americans are raised in a seminar ranged from a desire homophobic environment, said to understand homophobia to a Nugent. desire to combat the ho­
"The church considers mophobia which is present at [homosexuality] a sin, the law both Notre Dame and Saint considers it a crime, and until Mary's.recently, the American Psychi­One mother of a gay individ­atric Association considered it ual said she came to try "to 
an illness," he said. learn how to tolerate intoler­There has been little progress ance." Another participant said, in changing of attitudes, Nugent "The reason I came was to see said. "Young gay people today if there are people in the have to go through the same Catholic Church who are willingstruggle [gay] people had to go to accept me as a gay and a 
through 50 years ago," he said. Catholic ... ! found I don't have to 
Nugent described homopho­make that choice, that I can be bia as an irrational fear which both." is "dysfunctional at best." The The only way for Notre Dame 
word "homophobia" does not to combat the homophobia of accurately reflect the hatred its students would be "if the 
which often accompanies the school as a whole were to come fear. Nugent said. out with a more compassionate"Homophobic men are usually stance on homosexuality," men who have some insecurity starting with recognition of about their masculinity," he Gays and Lesbians at Notre said. Homophobics tend to be Dame/Saint Mary's, said an­
more authoritative, more status other participant. conscious and more conserva­
tive on all sexual matters, he Nugent closed the day'sadded. events with a brief discussion Nugent said that although about homosexuality and the there is probably not a direct Bible. lie said that the Bible can link between homophobia and be interpreted in many ways,the Acquired Immune Defi­and if one considers the "judgeciency Syndrome (AIDS) virus, not lest you will be judged" phi­AIDS provides people with a losophy, "it's not the homosex­convenient excuse for their ual people who are going to 
homophobia. hell, it's the homophobic people In addition, he pointed out who are going to hell." 
"There are very few parishes, at this point, where gay people can be themselves," said Nu­gent. He expressed a belief that changes in Catholic attitudes take place on the parish level. 
TURKEY SHOOT 
TARGET SHOOTING CONTEST 
NOVEMBER 13&14 STADIUM RIFLE RANGE CALL NVA FOR DETAILS 239-6100 

Tuesday, November 6, 1990

page 4 The Observer 
OUC's enrollment rises in computer training course 

Special to The Observer 
Fall enrollment in computer training minicourse offered by the Office of University Comput­ing increased 61 percent from last year. Total registrants jumped from 642 for the 1989 fall semester to 1,036 for the 1990 fall semester. 
The OUC is implementing sev­eral new strategies to meet the demand for computer training, according to Shiree Moreland, assistant director of informa­tion services and manager of the OUC computer education program. Computer savvy fac­ulty and professional staff from other departments on campus will serve as guest instructors in an outreach program to enhance instructor resources, and thirty-two sessions have been added, bringing the total to 107. 
According to Moreland, growth will continue but at a slower rate. "The OUC contin­ues to develop new courses as services and hardware are added to the infrastructure and the University community finds new uses for the technology," she said. 
The OUC's Computer Educa­tion Program includes day­time/weekday minicourses. 
Minicourses are designed to teach basic computer use and provide an introduction to software, as well as hands-on experience. 
The minicourses are non­credit, free of charge and are announced through the Com­puter Education Program brochure available in the In­formation Resource Center of the Computing Center/Math Building. 

American Heart Association 

Campus Ministry and You 
CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE FAITH KIND 
It's time to sign up for the next Notre Dame Encounter (NDE: November 30-December 2) and to be thinking about participating in this event if not now, certainly sometime during your Notre Dame career! 
The official name of this retreat program is Notre Dame Encounter with Christ, and it is an opportunity for students at the University ­especially Christian 'students -to deepen their own understanding and experience of who the risen Jesus is and what differences that can make in how we see ourselves, others and our God. 
Many students consider NDE to be one of the best things they have done here. Reasons vary, but past participants consider NDE to represent the best of what Notre Dame has to offer in terms of personal and spiritual growth. 

Students come to NDE from many different places in their lives of faith: full acceptance to resistance; pious to alienated; believing to skeptical; committed to agnostic. They all find it beneficial. Through presentations and discussions, songs and prayer and fun activities, the three-day experience allows exploration of the meaning of relationships and commitment to living the Christian life. 
One student attended NDE recently and his friends were anxiously awaiting his return. They knew well that he usually could find something negative in everything, and were taking bets as to how many negatives he would have to offer on his return. They were shocked. He had none! 
One of the primary problems of NDE-there are more students wanting in it than there are slots. So keep trying. This year an additional week-end was added, but it's still not enough to beat the demand. 
Not a bad measure of success! 

0MPU5 
MINISTRY 


lor the November 30· Dec:ember 2 NDE at the Ubrary Campus Ministry Ollice. 
Dates for future NDE's: January 18-20, 1991 February 1-3, 1991 April12-14,1991 
Week-end Presiders 
Saturu~,  Nov. 10  s:oo p.m.  
Sunu~,  Nov.u  1o:ooa.m.  
11:4Ja.m.  


Rev. Daniel JenJr~, CSC 
Rev. Miehael mmes Rev. Daniel JenJr~, CSC 

-· ---· -------~---------------~­
Tuesday, November6, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Rosa Parks to give lecture on her experiences in civil rights 
Special to The Observer 
Hosa Parks, often called the Mother of the American Civil Hights Movement. will give a lecture titled, "Montgomery to Notre Damn" Thursday (Nov. 8) at 7 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education 
On December 1, 1955, on a eity bus in Montgomery, Ala., Parks, a blaek female, was ar­rested for refusing to surrender her seat to a white male passenger. Outragn over the inddm1t inspired the black peo­ple of Montgomery to organize an unprecedented boycott of tlw city's bus service. During tlw 3H I days of the boycott, what began as a movement for munidpal dvil rights gathered nationwide support, and one of thn most significant social changes in American history began to take shape. 
Among other notable features of the Montgomery Bus Boycott was the emergence on the na­tional scene of its spokesman, a passionate exponent of nonvio­lent action named Martin Luther King Jr. 
A native of Tuskegee, Ala., Hosa Louise Parks was edu­cated in rural schools and re­ceived her high school diploma in 1934, two years after her marriage to Haymond Parks, an early civil rights activist. She has since received numerous awards and honorary degrees. 
Now a widow, Mrs. Parks worked from 1965 to 1988 on the staff of Hep. John Conyers (D-Mich.). In Feb. 1987 , she established the Hosa and Hay­mond Parks Institute for Self Development. 

Leaders discuss morality 
By PATRICK HEALY 
News Writer 
International leaders in de­velopmental psychology, sociology, ethics, and public policy will attend a conference at Notre Dame to discuss moral education and children. 
The conference, to be held Nov. 7-11, is called "Values, Rights, and Responsibilities in the International Community: Moral Education for the New Millennium," will allow repre­sentatives from thirty countries "to share their work" in studying the moral education of children, according to F. Clark Power, one of the conference's organizers. 
Power said that "a large percentage" of those attending wi II be developmental psychologists, 

most of whom were influenced 
by Lawrence Kohlberg, who 
"revived interest in children's 
morality" in the 1950's. 
No specific agenda to reach conclusions from the confer­ence are planned, said Power, as the conference's purpose is to allow the scholars to ex­change information on each others' systems for introdueing morality to children. For ex­ample, the U.S. is interested in the Soviets' "sense of commu­nity" in teaching morality, while the Soviets are hoping to learn of the sense of democracy in 
U.S. morality. 
According to Power, three psychologists from the Soviet Union will be in attendance, and said that "the Soviets have done quite a bit of work on peer groups and the way children develop morals." 
Power said that the confer­ence looks to give children a sense of "iuternationalism" in morality, find a "concensus in moral norms,"and to "prepare children to live in a different world than we grew up in." 
Another focus of the confer­ent·e will be to endorse the United Nations' Convention of the Hights of the Child, and a vote will be taken in the confer­ence's business meeting. 
The conferem:e, two years in the planning, will bn open to the public and will be held at the Centnr for Continuing Educa­tion during the day. The evening sessions will be held at the Marriot Hotel. The sessions will be free for Notrfl Damn students, faculty, and staff. 
Justice Department sends lawyers to ensure fairness 
WASIIIN(;T!>N (AP) -The idate black voters and discour­with election officials and, if began last Friday, a day after favoring racial job quotas and .Justice Department sent age them from casting ballots in necessary, seek court injunc­Democratic Party Chairman he is airing an advertisement lawyMs to North Carolina on the neck-and-neck race be­tions to prevent the misuse of Ron Brown charged in a letter showing the hands of a white Monday to try to ensure that tween GOP Sen. Jesse Helms information from the postcards. that the North Carolina GOP job applicant crushing a rejec­blaek voters awn't disqualified and former Charlotte mayor The postcards advised voters had sent postcards bearing tion letter. The announcer at thn polls with information llarvey Gantt, who is black. that they were ineligible to cast misleading and false informa­states that the job went to a gathnrml by tlw state Hepubli­In addition, Democrats feared ballots if they had moved in the tion to residents of heavily minority applicant to fulfill a can Party. that in cases where the last 30 days. Officials feared black precincts. hiring quota. 
Assistant Attorney General postcards were returned to the that if the returned postcards Brown's hand-delivered letter The votns of blacks in North .John Dunne said the state GOP state GOP as non-deliverable, were used to challenge eligibil­demanded an investigation by Carolina are considered a cru­has pledged not to use any indicating that someone had ity it would place an unfair the Justice Department's civil cial ingrediflnt in Gantt's efforts information it obtained from moved. the party might chal­burden of proof on voters. rights division. to unseat Helms, a three-term n~turrwd postcards to challenge lenge those people at the polls if "In our judgment, the state­The charge was made as race conservative Hepublican. tlw eligibility of voters at the they tried to vote. ment on the cards was mislead­flared as an issue Helms' bid to Dunne said the investigation polls on Tuesday. Dunne said a team of Justice ing if not totally inaccurate," defeat a stiff challenge from determined that the posteards 
Democrats charged the GOP Department lawyers would be Dunne said. Gantt. had been "disseminated on a sm1t out the postcards to intim-in the state Tuesday to consult Dunne said the investigation Helms has accused Gantt of fairly broad basis." 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER! SECURITY BEAT reprted that his radio-cassette player 
12:55 a.m. A resident of Fisher Hall reported vandalism to hi car that was had been stolen out of his desk at his
Minnesota Bus at 

reported that he had been receiving parked in the D06 parking lot. work station in the Architecture building. harassing phone calls. 3:33 p.m. A resident of Cavanaugh Hall 5:00a.m. A building sevices employee reported that his wallet was stolen from his 4:20 p.m. An off-campus student 
Thanksgiving and Christmas 
reported that a suspect had broken out desk drawer in his unlocked room. reported that her bookbag and all of its several windows at the Center for contents had been stolen out of one of Continuing Education. 3:33 p.m. A resident of Cavanaugh Hall the racquette ball courts in the J.A.C.C. 
8:30 a.m. A building services employee reported that his class ring was taken from reported that her purse had been stolen his desk drawer forom his unlocked room. 5:15 p.m. A resident of Alumni Hall from the first floor maids room in Dillon reported that his wallet and watch were Hall. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2 stolen from his unlocked room. 
Leaves November 21 and December 21 
8:43 a.m. A resident of the O'Hare 3:57 a.m. An off campus student reported Grace Townhouses reported that she had that his motorcycle had been vandalized 6:25 p.m. A resident of the University 
Parents contact Carol at American 
Group Tours at (612) 452-4679 for 
seen evidence of someone try to make a while it was parked in the northwest Apartments reported that her car had forced entry into her apartment. stadium parking lot. been damaged while parked in the
Registration 

10:10 a.m. An off campus student 3:20p.m. A resident of Keenan Hall University Apartments parking area. 
American Heart Ja 
Association V' 

Fl<_(b_ DruvtR( 
z7t-ott3
VVednesday.Nov.7 

113 DIXIE' WAY NORTH 
~,,_,.......
Spm Philippine Dinner 
at Center for Social Concerns 

2BUCK
(proceeds to Philippine Relief) 

TUESDAY 
6pm Slide Presentation 

5 p.m. to 12:30 at Center for Social Concerns "U.S. Military in the Philippines" 
Any 7" Sandwich 
sponsored by Overseas Development Network and the esc 
$2.00 
(2 or more for delivery) 

r 
page 6 
Criticism grows over Soviet market reforms 
MOSCOW (AP) -A state bank official on Monday added his voice to the growing criticism of Mikhail Gorbachev's plan for the switch to a market economy, warning it could hurt overall reforms. 
The criticism followed gloomy predictions from two of the So­viet president's economic advis­ers, who warned that the plan could spark hyperinflation and cut the standard of living. 
Oleg Mozhaisky, head of the bank's hard-currency depart­ment, told a news conference that recent Gorbachev decrees expanding the use of hard cur­rency were misguided. 
Referring to the use of dollars in the Soviet economy, Mozhaisky said: "Dollarization wouldn't bring us closer to the goals of perestroika but would worsen the state of the ruble and could make those goals more distant." 
Gorbachev's compromise program for restructuring the economy was adopted Oct. 19 by the Soviet legislature. It is already under sharp attack in many of the 15 republics. 
Gorbachev's own advisers have expressed doubts that it will succeed. 
The economic advisers. Niko­lai Petrakov and Stanislav Shatalin, said in a letter to a liberal newspaper that Gor­bachev's plan will increase the budget deficit and disrupt eco­nomic links among the 15 So­viet republics. The Soviet Union has a deficit of 60 billion rubles, .or about $96 billion. 
"The decrease in the stan­dard of living of the population will be significant before stabi­lization.... The inflationary spi­ral is winding up too quickly, the collapse of the consumer market is growing and the economy is moving further from a state of equilibrium," the economists said in the letter, published Sunday in Kom­somolskaya Pravda. 
The letter, signed by 11 other economists, accused the Soviet leadership of "indecisiveness and inconsistency" in economic reform. 
The statement was a rare public airing of differences be­tween Gorbachev and his aides. 
Shatalin, a member of Gor­bachev's Presidential Council, an advisory body, had written a plan to switch to a market sys­tem in 500 days. Gorbachev first supported it, then backed off. 
Immediately after the Gor­bachev plan was adopted, Shatalin said he supported it generally. Since then, he had refrained from public comment. 
The criticism was particularly striking coming from Petrakov, Gorbachev's usually loyal per­sonal economic adviser. 
Mozhaisky told reporters he . had not read the letter. He expressed general support for Gorbachev's economic re­forms, but took issue with two decrees: one creating an auc­tion among Soviet businesses for the foreign currency they hold, and the other setting up a network of stores selling goods in hard currency, or currency that can be converted on the world market. 
Bengal  Mission  Bout  tournament  next  semester  must  have  a  
physical  and  the  requisite  medical  and  insurance  forms  prior  
to  school  beginning  ln  January  1991  

In their criticism, the economists appeared to side · more with Russian President Boris N. Yeltsin than Gor­bachev. Yeltsin has described Gorbachev's plan as a "catastrophe" that will drive up prices and the budget deficit and decrease the ruble's pur­chasing power. 
Russia, the country's largest 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, November 6, 1990 
The Observer 

Gunfire for peaceful demonstrators 

Riot police, armed with shotguns, open fire on a peaceful demonstration in Cape Town,South Africa. The 
October 25 incident took place in a black township as hundreds of residents attempted to march on the 
local town council offices. One man was killed and at least two were injured by the gunfire. 

BENGAL 
I. BOUTS 
'··-­
NO 

NOTRE DAME 
I
BOXING 
ATTENTION BOXERS 
I 
Mandatory Physical 
republic, voted to go its own way and implement Shatalin's 500-day plan on Nov. 1. The Gorbachev plan merged that blueprint with a more cautious plan drafted by Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov. 
In their letter, the 13 economists also criticized Rus­sian officials. 
They said the Russian par­liament's decision to raise pur­chase prices and to consider raising pensions will mean that within six months, "the entire population of the republic, in­cluding pensioners, will live worse as a result of inflation or introduction of rationing." 
The 500-day plan, the economists noted, had envi­sioned delaying increases in pensions and prices until the slide of the ruble's value was arrested. 
The economists also said: 
-The government's plan to raise retail prices by decree and compensate low-income groups "is a path to hyperinflation." 

All those who want to box at Notre Dame, must receive a physical this Tuesday. Those who do not receive a physical must retain a private physician to do so. All participants in the 
Any Questions call Norm Conley, 233-8133 or another officer 
Tuesday, November 6 University Health Services Center 7:00pm 


Tuesday, November 6, 1990 The Observer page 7 
Gulf crisis has forced Israel to spend $1 biUion 
JEHUSALEM lAP) -Israel has spent nearly $1 billion to raise the army's alertness be­eause of the Persian Gulf crisis, Defense Minister Moshe Arens said Monday. 
Spokesman Danny Naveh quoted the minister from a speech to the U.S.-Israel Cham­ber of Commeree in Tel Aviv. 
"The gulf crisis has forced Israel to raise its level of alert, to mobilize certain reserve units and reorganize the posi­tioning of some forces," Arens said, according to Naveh. The mmarks also were broadcast on state radio and telnvision. 
Arnns said the movns cost Is­rael about $1 billion and that he had asked the Unitnd States for more military assistance to cover the costs, Naveh said. 
lsrar.l has so far maintained a low profile in the crisis, which bngan when Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2. 
The army has distributed gas masks to Israeli eitiznns follow­ing Iraqi thrnats to attack with chemical w1~apons. The military announced Monday that it would issue the masks to for­nign nationals from Nov. 12-16. 
Meanwhile, a prominent newspaper reported Monday that Iraqi President Saddam llussein had sought a meeting about a year ago with then-de­fense minister Yitzhak Rabin via an Arab-American busi­nessman. 
day.

,....................................................................................................,.
I 
~ 
! 
i
! 
i 
~ 
~
I 
~ 
~Located ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ for ND,SMC,IUSB and GRAD Students. ~ 
to discuss violence in the Gaza dent for the month of Novem­
Strip and elsewhere, but no ber. They said there was no
l..................................................................................................J 
Remember To Vote 
'fuesday, November 6, 1990 
6:00 am -6:00pm 

ON-CAMPUS STUDENTS Consult voter registration card for township. All on-campus students vote at one of three places. 
Portage 1  Portage 1 B  Clay  
vote in CCE Rm 100  vote in CCE Rm 104  vote at Little Flower Church  
54191 N. Ironwood Dr.  
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS  

Consult voter registration card for district and precinct. "Notice of Voting Places" chart posted in Huddle 
~TUDE •NT 
IIJIIIIIIT
Sample ballots on display in Huddle. 
TRY SQMETHING NEW! ! ! 
I 
I
**FREE TACOS** ~ and ~ 
other great specials ~ at ~ 
***TACO TUESDAY*** ~ 
8-12 ~ MUST BE 21 TO ENTER ~ 
I
in South Bend MARRIOTT Hotel~ downtown South Bend ~ 
**FREE PARKING** = ~ 
But Saddam canceled two meetings, that were to have been held in Europe, the Haaretz daily reported. 
It also said Rabin had refused a proposal for PLO representa­tives to be at the meeting, and the plan was put on hold in February. 
The arrangements were re­portl~dly made while Rabin was in Philadelphia visiting the businessman, identified only as an oil magnate and president of a prominent bank. 
According to llaaretz, the businessman himself initiated the contacts after meeting Sad­dam in Baghdad, and got to Habin through Israeli busi­nessman Azriel Einav. 
The newspaper said it was generally assumed that Saddam wanted to sec Habin following reports that Israel was likely to attack chemical weapons facto­ries in Iraq. It said the White House was informed of these indirect Israeli-Iraqi contacts. 
llaaretz wrote that Rabin re­fused comment on the report, and that his former spokesman Eitan Haber confirmed "something like that" was true, without elaborating. Neither Rabin nor Haber could be reached for comment on Mon­
~ 
-~:~;:::~-_"'' 
..~~ 
t 
AP Photo
Pistol polishing 

US Army 1st lt. Robert Frick of Pasadena, Md., cleans his pistol beneath his Arabian tent in the Saudi desert wednesday. The tents were purchased by the Charlie Company of the 37th Engineer Company, of which Frick is a member. 
PLO asks UN to give protection 
UNITED NATIONS -U.S. formal request has been made. Ambassador Thomas Pickering, At least 185 Palestinians were acting as Security Council pres­reported wounded in two days ident this month, met a PLO en­of rioting in the Gaza Strip, voy Monday night to discuss the which remained under curfew PLO call for U.N. observers to Monday. protect Palestinians in the oc­Monday's meeting was the cupied territories. first reported contact between 
"Let us see what happens. We the United States and the orga­do not expect magic," the PLO's nization since the U.S. govern­acting permanent observer, M. ment broke off dialogue with Nasser AI-Kidwa, told a re­the PLO following an attack by porter who asked if he would a radical PLO faction on an Is­discuss an emergency council raeli beach last May. meeting and the PLO call to U.S. diplomats, speaking on dispatch observers. condition of anonymity, empha­
The Palestine Liberation Or­sized that Pickering was meet­ganization seeks an emergency ing Kidwa strictly in the U.S. meeting of the Security Council role as Security Council presi­question of reviving any U.S.­PLO dialogue. 
The presidency rotates monthly among the 15-member council. 
Earlier Monday, the PLO asked the Security Council to send unarmed U.N. observers to protect Palestinians in terri­tories captured by Israel in the 1967 Mideast War. 
Israel rejects observers as a violation of its sovereignty over the territories that it captured in 1967. Israel seized the West Bank from Jordan and the Gaza Strip from Egypt. 
The PLO requested an emer­gency Security Council meeting and debate as soon as possible on the problems of Palestinians, especially after the weekend violence and the wounding of more than 180 Palestinians in the Gaza. 
In Algiers, Bassam Abu Sharif, PLO chief Vasser Arafat's spokesman, said his organization was discussing its moves with the Arab League and separately with League members. 
He appealed to U.N. Secre­tary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar in a statement for "quick action to end the series of Israeli crimes." 
Abu Sharif claimed more than 1,600 Palestinians were wounded the past four days. 
Clarification 
In the article about Zheng-de Wang in Monday's Observer, the details of the financial ar­rangements were unclear. According to Dennis Moore, di­rector of Public Helations and Information, the University has agreed to pay the Wang's a maximum of $90,000. The funds from the University along with the funds from the T-shirt sales, may overlap and will be used at the family's discretion. 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, November 6, 1990 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 

News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

"THf:: DIF~ Ber'W'ECN 'TH~ QNDIDA'TC~ IS GEmNG CL.£P.REQ ..... 5::WtlltlAP T\.IINKS i<OvVNSI<IIS C;,L£AZX, BUT /<CWAL.S/<1 1 CN TJtOWER AA"'D, i'riiNKS fCJ.W\11/t.-AP IS St9:z-Y. '' 
LETTERS 

Complacent confidence causes defeat; pessimism brings victory 
Dear Editor: game, it seemed that everybody 
I have not been here long, but thought we were going to win. I have been a Notre Dame foot-The day before that game, I ball fan for a while. I just came watched the news on TV in here last year and did not even-~ which reporters were buy football tickets last season interviewing the players in the since I did not think that I Michiana Airport before they would like it. One day, I hap-boarded the plane. Every player pened to watch the Notre looked confident and relaxed Dame-USC game on TV. I was and talked like they were a fascinated by that game. It was winner already. At that so exciting. I felt ecstatic at one moment, I felt that we were moment and disappointed at going to lose. Why? It is another moment. At a football because "Complacent soldiers game, every play is critical. If must be defeated and desperate you don't progress, you will be soldiers must win." I saw that held back. It is just like boating the Notre Dame soldiers were up a river. Since then, I have complacent and the Miami watched all the Notre Dame soldiers were desperate. games. 
Let me tell you a story from 

Last year before the Miami around 200 B.C. There was a 
The Viewpoint Department welcomes submissions from any and all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communtity. You don't have to be a regular writer or a member of the Observer staff to submit a column. Voice your views and make a difference-write Viewpoint P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Foul weather fight more harmful than fun 
Dear Students: 
As we enjoy the last days of Fall, we know that colder weather and snow cannot be far behind. In past years, the first snowball has often trig­gered a snowball fight. Although on the surface this may seem like an innocuous event, the incident has resulted in injury to students and staff, as well as significant damage to University property. 
The Office of Student Affairs 
DOONESBURY 
and student government have been working collaboratively toward trying to avoid a recur­rence of this event. As mem­bers of a community who care about each other and about this place, we ask you to join in our efforts to bring this practice to an end. 
Professor Patricia A. O'Hara Wee President for Student Affairs Rob Pasin Student Body President Nov. 4, 1990 

Chinese general named Han Zing. General Han was ap­pointed by the emperor to seize a castle. The general only had several thousand soldiers while the castle was occupied by the enemy with tens and thousands of soldiers. There was a river in front of the castle. On the day after he and his soldiers crossed the river by boats and had dinner, General Han ordered his soldiers to burn the boats and destroy the cooking facilities. Then, the general gave a pep talk to the soldiers and told them that they could not escape. They faced a do-or­die situation. The soldiers were desperate. Thus, everybody did his best. Finally, they defeated their enemy and occupied the castle. Now you may know why Miami defeated Notre Dame last year. 
For this season, I was quite optimistic. I talked with some friends before the Miami game. It seemed that everybody thought we were going to lose. Then I said, if everybody thought we were losing, I bet we would win. The squad is very good and has a lot of tal­ent. If the players can put themselves into a desperate sit­uation for every game, they will win every one of the remaining games of this season and prob­ably a national championship. 
Tell you a secret. You know why Coach Holtz did his job so well at Notre Dame? It is be­cause he has always been des­perate and pessimistic. Unfortunately, he cannot play on the field himself. I really be­lieve that the success of the Notre Dame football squad depends entirely on how des­perate Coach Holtz will make his players feel. 
Finally, I must confess that I hate to see Notre Dame win ev­ery game, because although I am a big fan of the team, it is not fun. It sounds strange, but the loss to Stanford really cheered me up a little bit. 
Fu-Quan Wang Off-campus Oct. 30. 1990 

Swill, rather than haute cuisine, dished out despite a full menu of tasty events 
Dear Editor: wit, how could one not help but 
Kudos to your editorial deci­delight in rut gut George sion makers for the Accent Wendt's "spotted" academic page in The Observer, Nov. 1. It career here and Paul Stelzer's is definitive proof. if one ever passionate plea to Fr. Malloy to needed any, that sports do not bestow an honorary degree on take precedence over artistic someone who managed to endeavors here on campus. To amass a 0.0 GPA by junior 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
year? 
After all, we've only got five "Actors From the London Stage," opening in Shakespeare's "As You Like It," whose professional bios stacked on top of one another probably would weigh as much as Wendt does upon evacuating a pint or two of his beloved brew. 
Students continually complain both verbally and nonverbally, with their cartoons, lampooning "leftovers" in the dining halls. Might one also register a bit of cultural malnutrition while being served some of the slop that should have been trashed two weeks ago? 



Accent 
Tuesday, November 6, 1990 page 9 
Taco Bell and all the comforts of home 



Chuck Young 
Fresh Perspective 
St. Paul. Minnesota. llome at last. 
I grabbPd my luggage and ran up to the door. It felt good to be home. Or at least it would feel good as soon as I got inside and went to the bathroom. I jammed my kt~y into the lock. And turned. 
It didn't work. 
After listtming to me bang on the door for a few minutes, my dad finally opened it. I said hello and asked him why my key didn't work. 
"Welcome home, Son. changed the locks, that's all." 
You what? 
"I changed the locks. It was about time I changed them anyway." 
It was? Why? Were they rusting? More importantly, where's my new key? 
"I don't see any reason for giving you a new key, do you'? After all, you don't live hHre anymore. You'll just be going back to Notrn Dame in a week." 
Not live here anymore? Was this some kind of hint? At the very least, it was a bad sign. My thoughts immediately turned to my room. And its contents. And my eleven year­old brother. I ran down the hall. 
To my great relief, the TV, sten~o and waterbed were still thnre. 
I unpacked my clothes and thrnw my bag of homework (a dt~l1nite oxymoron, at least in my case) into the corner. It landed with a huge THUD. I re­solvt~d to stare at it daily until it got smaller. Meanwhile, my parents could consider it a monument to their well-spent tuition dollars. 
I laid down on my bed and contemplated whether I could sleep through Sunday while I looked out the window. It was hard not to notice that some­thing seemed strange-it wasn't raining. 
I went outside and, even though it wasn't a football weekend, it wasn't cold! In fact, it was sunny. I had traveled over three hundred miles north and it was warmer than in South Bend. You don't appreci­ate home until you leave it, I 

Fall break in Naples for Rome Program brings·interesting adventures for students 
By ELIZABETH WHOLIHAN 
Overseas Columnist 
Fall break for the students on the Home program was not ex­actly the five days of peace and quiet we expected. All sixty-one of us went on a trip to Southern Italy. 
We didn't exactly start the trip together. Unfortunately, the 5 a.m. wake-up call just did not succeed in waking everyone up. Thus, my next-door neighbors were two minutes late for the bus and had to catch a train to meet the rest of us in Pompeii. A wonderful beginning ... 
We spent eaeh night in Naples and visited other nearby cities during the day. (Let me just say now that, culturally, the trip was excellent. Culture will not be a big part of my story, but it was a huge part of our trip.) The hotel we stayed in was not exactly in one of the better neighborhoods in Naples. We stayed there for convenience, evidently, and in any other situ­ation you would not stay in that general vicinity. It does not seem like Americans, especially women, are looked upon too favorably in Naples. The com­ments we heard (in both Italian and English), we would not make to a sewer rat. Clearly, Naples did not make a good impression on us those first few nights. 

About fifty of us would agree that Saturday night in Naples was the best of all. (We don't know where the other ten were; this isn't a "4 out of 5 doctors approve Trident" statement.) We realized we are all American through and through when Paul Shinn ("our fearless leader" -who thought it would be great to have his name in the Observer) led us to the USO to watch the NO-Miami game. 
Of course, it was not that easy. About fifteen of us left after a quick dinner and took the bus as close as we thought we could to the USO. It began to drizzle as we walked the re­mainder of the distance. We stopped to check the map and before we knew it, we were in the midst of a torrential down­pour -a monsoon-like storm. Needless to say, we ran all of the rest of the distance -and almost right past the USO. As Linda Tiberi said, "This is dan­gerous, we could get there and end up seeing the game on a Watchman." 
We might as well have taken showers fully clothed. In fact, I was thinking this rain might save me from doing some laun­dry on return to Home (all done by hand in the tub). That is 
thought. Suddenly, it hit me. I had a car! 
I ran into the garage and jumped into my Ford Tempo. It took me two years to pay off, so in light of my sacril1ce (and a few dents in the bumper), my friends kindly christened it "the black bulldozer." I started the dozer and revved the engine. 
I tried to think of a place to go. At $1.50 a gallon, I couldn't just drive in circles. 
The choice was obvious. Taco Bell! Two months at college with­out one trip to Taco Bell were 
almost unbearable. It used to be such an integral part of my life. I ate five 49¢ hardshells to cut back on my Prom dinner expenses, bought one of the first chicken and steak soft­shelled tacos and played the Cinco de Mayo ruboff game 65 consecutive times (even though I never won). No question about it: I would make a run for the border. 
It's hard to explain why Taco Bell is so awesome. I'm sure you need to experience Nachos Bellgrande to appreciate them, for instance. And the Bean Burrito is simply unique. 
when I discovered that in Italy, it rains DIHT. Not buckets of dirt, but the clothes clearly show specks of dirt just the same. (This was confirmed as fact later.) This made for a rather uncomfortable three hours sitting in front of the TV, but it was worth it. 
Along with some of our U.S. 
Servicemen, we all watched 

We have some fine fall weather in Rome which always reminds us (especially after seeing the game on TV) of our home campuses. 
the game. We were all cheerleaders and about live of us took turns with the ND leprechauns' chore of aerial push-ups. We saw the game without tape delay, so it was mighty late when we got back to the hotel. Once again, some of us had a little problem with the 5 a.m. wake-up call that morning. 
Although a few things just did not seem to go our way on the trip, the highlights -like the game. the bus rides and the Kodak moments -made up for 
Of course, the classic 49¢ Soft Taco with sour cream was my goal. It's an exquisite com­bination of lettuce, tomato, ground beef and flour tortilla that ravishes your taste buds. The ultimate dining experience. An unparalleled culinary mas­terpiece. And it's competitively priced. 
But I guess distance makes the heart grow fonder, because I soon recalled my greatest pet peeve about Toxic Hell. 
They forgot the sour cream. Again. 
Oh, well. South Dining Hall here I come. 
The rest of my week was ded­icated to beating my parents to the mailbox so as to intercept a certain letter from the Office of the Hegistrar. 
Sunday came too soon, per­haps due to my attempts to set new local and regional sleeping records. Before I knew it, I was on a bus going back to South Bend. I'm not sure what time it was, thanks to Notre Dame's refusal to aecept daylight sav­ings time. I suppose it has something to do with the foot­ball team remaining indepen­dent. 
The bus finally stopped about as far away from my dorm as it could and still charge me full fare. I had to haul my luggage (weighted down with crates of my grandma's homemade brownies) across three quads. But I didn't mind. 
I was home. 

Want to read about your self in the paper? Letters to Chuck can be sent to: Chuck. c/o the ObserLJer, Jrd floor ofLaFortune 
any of that. In fact, we were pleased to be "home" again and learn that we missed three straight days of rain and a flood in Home. After all of the talk of how we would be wearing long underwear and sweaters by the second week of Oetober and absolutely no sign of this, we were a little tired of wearing the same four t-shirts and shorts for a month. Eighty degree weather does not consti­tute long underwear and sweaters in my book. At least, we have some fine fall weather here in Home which always reminds us (especially after seeing the game on TV) of our home campuses. 
If you know someone on the program and want to write, the addresses arn: 
(Women) 
Hotel Tiziano 
Corso Vittorio Emanuele ll, 
llO 
00816 Home, Italy 
(Men) 
Pensione Barrntt 
Via diTorre Argentina, 4 7 

-
00816 Home, Italy 

Be sure to put the person's name on the top line. Mail gen­erally takes anywhere from one to three weeks to arrive. 
-----~------------­
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, November 6, 1990 
Browns' Carson first NFL head coach to get the ax 
BEREA, Ohio (AP) -The Cleveland Browns, off to their worst start since 1984, fired coach Bud Carson the day after their worst home loss ever. 
Owner Art Modell, who promised last year that Carson would be his last head coach, changed his mind following Sunday's 42-0 loss to the Buffalo Bills. 
"It was an embarrassment for all of us," Modell said Monday. 
Rocket 
continued from page 16 
fans who willingly shell out their hard-earned money to buy tickets. The fans pay their grossly inflated salaries; the "If I ever do leave the game, I'm going to go out on top. I'm not going to go out as a loser." 
Carson, the first coaching casualty of the season, was re­placed by first-year offensive coordinator Jim Shofner. 
The Browns, who have made the playoffs the five past years, are 2-7 and off to their worst start since 1984, when their 1-7 record cost Sam Rutigliano his job. 
least professional athletes can do is give them a little bit of their ti111e. 
Ismail is not a professional, however. He is not getting paid to play football for Notre Dame. He is a student-athlete, and I seriously doubt that the media 

"I was hoping and praying that Bud would turn it around," Modell said. "I can't coach, but I have some instincts for the game. We had to stop the hemorrhaging. I'm looking for a demonstrable turnaround in performance." 
Modell asked Shofner to take over for at least the rest of the season. He becomes the Browns' ninth head coach. Carson was in the middle of a 
monster which constantly pesters him is helping the poor guy in any of his classes. He may be the best player in college football, but he also is a rather shy human being who is uncomfortable talking about himself. 
When asked if all of the 
three-year contract that runs through 1991, and it will be honored, Modell said. 
''I'm not going to speculate beyond the end of this season," Modell said. 
Carson did not attend Monday's news conference. He had indicated Sunday night that he might resign, but he did not leave voluntarily, Modell said. 
"To his credit, he didn't want 
media attention bothered him, lsm~!l replied, "It's not a prob­lem. 
But it is. For his sake, one can only call for a little bit of sensitivity from reporters when they are dealing with a shy superstar. The ravenous hunger of the media members to go out on a losing note," Modell said. 
"The last thing I want to do is be part of a football team that can't win," Carson said after the game. 
Carson had gambled by starting Mike Pagel at quarter­back against the Bills, instead of Bernie Kosar. Kosar will start when the Browns play again on Nov. 18 against Houston, Shofner said. 
who feed off of his considerable talent to sell their newspapers and television shows will have to be satisfied with what little the quiet 20-year old can offer. If not, the publicity could be very harmful to a reluctant star who is as fragile off the field as he is strong on the field. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's offu:e, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
I 
HELP: Lost: 11/3----A double-stranded NEED PENN ST GA'S. CALL I NEED A LOT OF PENN ST. Tickets for 
I NEED 2 TENN. TICKETS
TOM GA'S
NOTICES 
pearl bracelet with two clear 

FOR MY BOSS, IF I DON'T GET stones somewhere between P.E. 
273-0302 $$$CALL DEREK 234-3356$$$ "Fiesta de las Americas" 
THEM I MIGHT GET FIRED TYPING AVAILABLE and Carroll or in the haunted JIM X2461
HELP ME! DO YOU HAVE PENN ST. TIX? go on SALE Tuesday night.
287-4082 house. It's not real, so it has no I NEED 6 PENN STATE GA'S. I NEED 8!!!! CALL TIM#2704 They will also be available at the real value except that my little 

SELL YOUR PSU STUDS/GAS & JUST SAY NO! sister gave to me for Christmas. If JOE X2358 door, Saturday night. 
I'LL LOVE YOU LIKE YOU'VE Sell me 4 PENN ST. GAs and I'llBuy/Sell used books at Pandora's found, please call Cheryl at 4321. 
NEVER BEEN LOVED. I'LL 
WINDCHILL be happy! Cristin x3857
Books, comer of ND ave. & I need your help.
ALSOFROSTBITEHoward. 233-2342 

PAY YOU LIKE YOU'VE NEVER Do you own an American Express 
I I

WANTED NOV17 I need all the tickets that you BEEN PAID 
PENNST can sell me for the Tennessee­
TUTOR WITH PHD &10 YEARS OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Card?
MIKE#l223

Need I say more? N.D. game. Call Phil at 1436
UNIVERSITY TEACHING Summer, Yr., round, All Countries, 
Ryan need 2 stud tix or leave a message.
EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST Corona Del Mar CA 92625. Do you have a travel voucher you
Need 2 Penn St. GA's for visiting xl048STUDENTS IN ECON will not be using?
grandparents who will spend BIGI need two tickets for Penn State.
,STAT,MATH COURSES 2723153 A friend from high schoolEarn $300 to $500 per week $$$
WANTED: 2 TICKETS GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409. Reading Books at home. Call Call Pat xl900 invited me to his semi-formal atTENNESSEE vs NOTRE DAME,Typing his college. 
1-615-473-7440 Ext. B 340. 

NOV. lOTH. CALL COLLECT I need two tickets for Penn State.
Pickup & Delivery 
I don't know how I'm going to get

NEEDED: 2 PENN STATE GAs
(704) 322-3709 ASK FOR MARK. GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409.
277-7406 there.
WANTED: 6 Pitt, 6 Penn St., CALL MARY Xl727 
4 Tennesee GA's 273-1364 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 1 PENN ST STUD OR GA 
If you won't be using your travel

\ LOST/FOUND 
Need 2 Penn St GA's ND HOCKEY IS LOOKING FOR Call Tim x 1368 
Wealthy Physician to Pay TIX FOR LITTLE SIS PLEASE!! 
voucher, maybe we can make a

Big Bucks for PENN STATE CALL SARAH 2815
>>>LOST<<< 
deal!
AN ORGANIST OR PEP BAND G.A.'s or STUDSBRACELET OF GOLD LETTERS 

FOR HOME GAMES. 239-5050. Need 4 Penn St GA's. 
x 1935 ask for Alex •Nov. 20, 1987@ psu
which spell Call Cris@ X4842Call x2891. 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ -30 degrees, snow flurries
I LOVE YOU thanx.
Need ride FOR 2 to Pm for • Nov. 19,1988@ NDObvious sentimental value THANKS. break Diane x4902 HELP-I need PSU GA's 30 degrees, cold So. Bend rainREWARD 

I PERSONALS 
SEMESTER AROUND THE

PLEEEAASE call Beth at • Nov. 18, 1989 @ psu
288-7976 WORLD

NEEDGA'S 288-0597 -20 degrees, snow flurries hiag PENN &USC FALL 1991 •-stay HOME, Stay WARM•• ..REWARD"• Informational meetings­DO YOU HAVE HIDDEN
I need MANY Penn State GAs, Sell me your Penn St.
I lost my RED PLAID Nov. 6, 5:30, ND LibraryARTISTIC TALENT THAT 
1272-977~R 

RENT preferably in groups. Call Paula-Std.'s or G.A.'s
UMBRELLA on Sunday 10/21 Auditorium.
YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED TO
283-4096. CALL Ed 277-8974
in Hesburgh library. VERY high 
Nov. 7, 6:30, SMC Haggar. sentimental value (plus, BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY I NEED PENN ST & Tenn Please Help!!! I need 4 Penn ART EXPO '90 
SHOW? 
it is unique and I would 

219-291-7153 invites ALL members of the ND
tixs.272-6306 State GA's!! Call Pat x4110
definitely recognize it!) Please call community to sign up for this TACO TUESDAY!!
2983 with info an attractive studio in lovely old informal exhibit Nov. 5 &6, in the TACO TUESDAY!!

Need 4 USC tix Carrie x4355 WANTED! 2 PENN STATE GA'S. 
NQA. I really need my umbrella! 

mansion near ND 255/mo call SUB office from 3-5 pm, or call FREE TACOS 8-12 
CALL TEDS X1388. 
••REWARD"• 2888595 239-7757. GREAT SPECIALS 

Need stud tix for Penn St. Call Geoff at 271-5686. NEED 2 PENN STATE GAs TERRACE LOUNGE 
Found at Miami game: A very capacious room; Monthly Adoption: A caring, devoted SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT

LISA 2341574/JIM 2711703 
-one shoe 

rent< $100; Walking distance from professional couple wishes to give SEE YOU THERE TONIGHT!!
HEYHEYHEY!
-one pair of sunglasses Campus; Call )in 288-8927 or 239-newborn all the advantages of a 

Make my day 6688 loving, secure home. Expenses TONIGHT!!
Sell me 2 Penn GA's NEEDED:
Call Matt @3472 to identify. PENN ST. AND TENN. 
paid. Call Joan/John collect (212) FREE TACOS!! NEAR N.D. Duplex available. 496-0661. FREE PARKING!! 
Thanks! X3821 TICKETS John 289-9654
LOST RING!!! LOST RING!!!! 

1 bdrm-$265 GREAT SPECIALS!! 
******************** 
PLEASE, if you found a gold 2 bdrm-$360 HELP TERRACE LOUNGE 8-12

Need 4 PENN ST. GAsring with a purple heart-shaped dep., references NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT 

BIG MONEY. WE NEED PENN. ST. GA'S AND
stone being held by 616-483-9572. AREA FOR THANKSGIVING HOTEL

call Rob 259-3268 STUDS. WILL PAY BIG$$$$$.
two hands and with a crown CALL JEFF OR BOB AT 2235. 
WILL HELP PAY GAS/TOLLSon top, CONTACT ERIN at 4634. 
FEMALE NEEDED TO SHARE 2 CALL DAVE Xl955. 
Penn State GA's please. Paigellive in 114 Lewis. This ring BEDROOM APT AT TURTLE 

x2980. SEX, SEX, OH, OH!
means so much to me--­CALL TO PEACEMAKING
CREEKAVAL. UNTIL MAY DAVE,
REALLY, I NEED 4 PENN. ST.
PLEASE CALL!!! WEEK
273-9406 OR 283-2805 GOOD LUCK THIS WEEK IN
I Need B-Ball appls. GA'S. I WILL PAY LOTS OF Dave x3024 MONEY FOR THEM. FLO Xl696 PORTLAND!!!!! I expect you to
LOST RING!!! LOST RING!!! DINNER AND DISCUSSION ON 
Single 2-Room Apt. Cheap come back with four job offers. 
Gold Clataugh (sp?) ring... THE US INVOLVEMENT AND 
15 min. Walking from Campus Love, Anne
I need 4 GA's for Penn State! NEED 3 PENN STATE
two hands holding a heart­SOCIAL PROBLEMS IN THE 
Avail. Dec. 1-May 31 

Sandy x4121 STUD. TIX CALL JIM
shaped purple stone, with a PHILUPINES.
ATTENTION!!!!!

AT X1910 OR Xl911crown on top... PLEASE contact 
Bob x3234 One black and gold watch lost at
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's 

me if you've found it!!! It was TRADITIONAL PHILLIPINO 
GWEN X1327 Need Penn St Stud & GAs the girls flag football playoff
a pre-Christmas gift-the DINNER 
games on Sunday at Stepan field.
Todd x1724
FOR SALE

only one I'll see!! Erin at 4634, 114 $3.00
If you have any information about
I need your help. I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S My high school teacher is a PSU GAs FOR SALE it please call Anne at 288-0597. 
Lewis........ 5:00-6:00PM WEDNESDAY 
NOVEMBER 7, CSC FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE 

graduate from Indiana University. x3028 or x2546 NAME GAME AND PRICE 273-ATTENTION ALL LEWIS WATCH NEAR STONEHENGE. 
He's was pretty cool. 1364 CHICKENS !!!!! 
CALL LEN AT 277-9373 TO 

$$$$$ I need at least two tickets to the IDENTIFY. For Sale: 
It was a great season -too bad it TWO "ZZ Top" Tickets 
Plane ticket to Boston for sale: had to end so soon.
IU/ND basketball game for him I need 2 Penn State GA's 
Tonight!
St. Edward's 

L-11/20 R-11/25 Everybody remember, as one of
and a friend. (G.A. or stud tix). Call Katie x3771 
Call287-7555 

**"'*ONLY $190.****** our "beloved" coached would say,
Please ....
Hall Forum 
to always be$$$$$ 

Please call x4809 "INTELECTUAL AND
Significant People­
Give me a call and we can make a 
FAST 

ATHELETIC" !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
deal. Cris @4842 PENN ST GA NEEDED ZZTOP ZZTOP -The 3rd String Guard
Significant Issues 
FUNDRAISING

MONEY NO OBJECT MIKE TUES. NOV 6 8:00PM 
I need FOUR PENN GA'S for rich 
Father Richard 
PROGRAM
TICKET FOR SALE 
alum. Will pay good money. Xl588 

HAPPY 21ST B-DAY 
McBrien 
CALLX1068 Call Corey @ 1351 KIMMER
Professor ofTheolog'l 

PSU tix needed: studs or GA's GIVE A "LmLE HUM" 
'IOOO:s:.....
Chairman, Dept o 
TENNESSEE GA'S 

I miss my girlfriend. Please sell call288-2195 
TONIGHT 
30yd In
Theology 
me 2 Penn St. GA's and make me from: Kris, Sue, AND Van 

Earn up to $1000 in one week

happy. Jay x2290 Need 4 Penn State GA's. 272-9770
speaks on: 
for your campus organization.

Call Pete x 1097. 
To the Plague and coaches
11Why I Am 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME 
Plus a chance at

BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S NEED PENN. STATE GA's
-
A 
Congrats on a good season!!!
TICKETS 
CALL 273-1364 
$5000 more!

LOTS OF 'EM!! 284-4350 We had a great time and had the 
best uniforms too!! 
This program works!
Catholic" 
Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott atNeed $$$?Sell 
Let's Party!!!! 
No investment needed. 

your ga's to all 283-1818 and leave a message. I need Tennessee tickets and home games. PSU GA's HELP!!!!! 
Wednesday, 
c.II-IOMU.OSZI
November 7, 


Call tom xl597. need 2 TN ga's Rick x1750 Call 288-0597 sdgf 
Ext. 50 


--------------------------------------------------~~--~-------------------------------------------------~--~~---------------------­
Scoreboard 
Tuesday, November 6, 1990 page 11 
-
NFL STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
All Times EST All Times EST BASEBALL AMERICAN CONFERENCE WALES CONFERENCE American League East Patrick Division CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Named Ron Schueler 
w L T Pet PF PA w L T Pts cr GA senior vice president; Larry Monroe director Buffalo 7 0 .875 229 136 NY Rangers 11 6 0 22 69 43 of minor leagues and scouting; Steve M1ami 7 0 .875 175 93 New Jersey 9 5 19 59 48 Noworyta director of minor league NY Jets 4 5 0 .444 175 199 Washington 9 7 0 18 52 50 operations, and Duane Shaffer director of Indianapolis 2 6 0 .250 112 186 Philadelphia 8 7 0 16 58 53 scouting. New England 7 0 .125 120 244 Pittsburgh 7 6 1 15 64 54 FOOTBALL Central NY Islanders 4 10 0 8 36 6t National Football League Cincinnati 5 4 0 .556 212 225 Adams Division CLEVELAND BAOWN5-Fired Bud Carson, Pittsburgh 5 4 0 .556 171 147 Boston 8 5 2 18 46 52 coach. Named Jim Shofner coach. Houston 4 5 0 .444 194 169 Montreal 8 6 2 18 53 50 HOCKEY Cleveland 2 7 0 .222 128 235 Buffalo 5 5 4 14 45 41 National Hockey League West Hartlord 4 8 2 10 33 48 CHICAGO BLACKHAWK5-Aecalled Dominik LA Aaidrs 6 2 0 .750 154 108 Quebec 3 9 3 9 40 6 I Hasak, goalie, from Indianapolis of the Kansas City 5 3 0 .625 176 I 21 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE International Hockey League. San Diego 4 5 0 .444 195 156 Norris Division HARTFORD WHALER5-Aecalled Mike Denver 3 5 0 .375 190 205 w L T Pts cr GA Tomlak, center. from Springfield of the Seattle 3 5 0 .375 !58 166 Chicago 10 6 0 20 52 37 American Hockey League. NATIONAL CONFERENCE St. Louis 9 4 19 51 39 PHILADELPHIA FLYEA5-Recalled Bruce Ent Detroit 7 5 3 17 58 57 Hoffart, goalie, from Hershey of the 
w L T Pet PF PA Minnesota 3 9 4 10 42 60 American Hockey League. NYGiants 8 0 0 1.000 195 103 Toronto 2 13 1 5 42 80 VANCOUVER CANUCK5-Aecalled Gary Valk, Washmgton 5 3 0 .625 185 141 Smythe Division left wing, lrom Milwaukee of the Philadelphia 4 4 0 .500 199 172 Calgary 11 5 0 22 68 45 International Hockey League. Dallas 3 6 0 .333 119 180 Los Angeles 1 0 4 21 66 46 Phoenix 2 6 0 .250 103 !95 Vancouver 7 7 0 14 42 46 
WTA TENNIS 
Central Winnipeg 6 8 13 48 47 Chicago 7 0 .875 199 102 Edmonton 2 8 2 6 31 37 Results Monday at the $150,000 Jell-0
Tampa Bay 4 5 0 .444 163 208 Monday's Game Classic at the Indianapolis Indoor Sports
Detroit 3 5 0 .375 206 220 Boston 3, N.Y. Rangers 2, OT Center:
Green Bay 3 5 0 .375 147 180 Tuesday's Games 
Minnesota 2 6 0 .250 177 181 Chicago at Hartford, 7:35 p.m. Singles Firat Round
Welt Toronto at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35 p.m. Patty Fendick (8), Sacramento, Calif., del.
San Franc1sco 8 0 0 1.000 198 138 Calgary at Piltsburgh, 7:35 p.m. Audra Keller, Memphis, Tenn., 6-3, 6-1.
Atlanta 3 5 0 .375 208 221 Washington at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. Elena Pampoulova, Bulgaria, del. Halle
LA Rams 3 5 0 .375 191 227 Edmonton at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. Ciolfi, Knoxville, Tenn .. 3-6, 7-6 (7-2). 6-3.
New Orleans 3 5 0 .375 136 157 Philadelphia at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m. Elna Reinach, South Africa, del. Cecilia
Sundey'e Games Detroit at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. Pitlsburgh 21 . Allanla 9 Wednesday's Games 
Dahlman, 6-3, 1-6, 6-1. Katerina Maleeva (1 ), Bulgaria, del. Sandra
New York Jets 24, Dallas 9 Boston at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. Wasserman, Belgium, 6-2, 6-1.
Philadelphia 48, New England 20 Buffalo at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35 p.m. Raflaella Aeggi (5). Italy. del. Carrie
New Orleans 21, Cincinnati 7 N.Y. Islanders at New Jersey, 7:45 p.m. M1ami 23. Phoenix 3 Cunningham. Livonia, Mich., 6-4, 6-2. 
DoublesKansas Clly 9, Los Angeles Aalders 7 
NHL LIN 

First RoundSan Francisco 24, Green Bay 20 Katrina Adams, Chicago, and Jill
Washington 41. Detroit 38, OT Boston 0 1 1-3 Hetherington. Canada (4) del. Holyn Lord and Stephanie Reece, Indianapolis, 6-2, 6-t. 
Bultalo 42. Cleveland 0 N.Y. Rangers 2 0 0 0-2 
Chicago 26, Tampa Bay 6 First Period-!, New York, Ogrodnick 9 (Leetch, Mullen), 5:18. 2, New York, Gartner 9 Louise Allen, San Antonio, Texas, and
Los Angeles Rams 17, Houston 13 (Turcotle, Erixon), 7:08. Penalties-Carpenter, Bos (interference), 3:12; Moiler, NY Sophie Amiach, France, del. Lindsay BartlettSan Diego 31 , Seattle 14 (roughing), 13:34; Leetch, NY (high-sticking), 19:49. 
and Shelley Bartlett, Portola Valley, Calif..
Minnesota 27. Denver 22 Second Perlod-3, Boston, Carpenter 4 (Carter, Byers), 14:22. Penalties-Vial, NY 6-2, 1-6, 6-4.
Monday's Game (tripping). 5:59; Hodge, Bos (holding), 6:10; Moog, Bos, served by Janney (roughing), 8:08; New York Giants 24. Indianapolis 7 Vial, NY (roughing), 8:08; Vanbiesbrouck, NY, served by Sheppard (delay of game), 1 0:20; Sunday, Nov. 1 1 Wesley, Bos (holding), 12:04; Galley, Bos (tripping), 17:24. Allanla al Chicago, 1 p.m. Third Perlod-4, Boston, Neely 8 (Janney, Weimer), 19:46. Penalty-Nilan, Bos (slashing), MONEY LEADERS Indianapolis al New England, p.m. 
9:35. M1am1 al New York Jets, 1 p.m. Overtlme-5, Boston, B.Sweeney 2 (Neely, Burridge), 3:30. Penalties-None. The Women's Tennis Association money Mmnesola al DelrOII. 1 p.m. Shots on goal-Boston 8-12-6-2-28. New York 10-7-8-4-29. leaders through Nov. 4: Phoenix al Bultalo. 1 p.m. Power-play Opportunities-Boston 0 of 4; New York 0 of 5. 1: Steffi Graf $1,184,070 Seattle at Kansas City, 1 p.m. Goalies-Boston, Moog, 4-3-1 (29 shots-27 saves). New York. Vanbiesbrouck, 6-3-0 (28-2. Martina Navratilova $1,079,880 Tampa Bay al New Orleans, 1 p.m. 25). 3. Monica Sales $956,874 Denver al San Diego, 4 p.m. A-15,436. 4. Gabriela Sabatini $697,533 
Green Bay al Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. Referee-Bill McCreary. Linesmen-Gerard Gauthier, Leon Stickle. 5. Jana Novotna $544,132 
New York Giants al Los Angeles Rams. 4 p.m. 6. Zina Garrison $536,968 San Francisco al Dallas, 8 p.m. 7. Helena Sukova $4 75,584 OPEN DATES: Cincinnati, Cleveland, Houston, Piltsburgh A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 $442,616
8. Mary Joe Fernandez Monday, Nov. 12 9. Arantxa Sanchez Vicario $425.999 Washington al Philadelphia, 9 p.m. The Top T wanly Five learns in the Associated Press 1 990 college 10. Natalia Zvereva $400,713 football poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, records through 11 . Katerina Maleeva $341 ,663 NFL BOX Nov. 3. total points based on 25 points for a first-place vote through 12. Manuela Maleeva-Fragmere $284,949 
one point for a 25th-place vote, and last week's rankings: 13. Nathalie Tauzial $272,781 New York 3 14 0 7-24 Record Pts Pvs 14. Jennifer Capriati $261,915 Indianapolis 0 0 7 0-7 1. Notre Dame (37) 7-1-0 1,456 2 15. Judith Wiesner $227,887 
NY-FG Bahr 23,8:20, I st. 2. Washington (13) 8-1-0 1,403 7 16. Gigi Fernandez $211,720 NY-Anderson 2 run (Bahr kick), :24, 2nd. 3. Houston (5) 8-0-0 1,337 6 17. Elizabeth Smylie $200,604 NY-Anderson 3 run (Bahr kick), 11:44, 2nd. 4. Colorado (5) 8-1-1 1,310 9 18. Conchita Martinez $195,t84 
lnd-Benlley 1 run (B1asucci kick), 7:18, 3rd. 5. Miami, Fla. 6-2-0 1,228 8 19. Larlsa Savchenko $194,984 NY-Duerson 31 tumble return (Bahr kick), 1:37, 4th. 6. Iowa 7-I -0 I, 129 13 20. Leila Meskhi $178,329 
7. Georgia Tech 7-0-1 1,074 16 21 . Mercedes Paz $178,078 
NYG lnd 8. Brigham Young 7-1-0 1,039 10 22. Barbara Paulus $165,797 First downs 17 11 9. Tennessee 5-1-2 980 11 23. Gretchen Magers $161,617 Rushes-yards 30·116 17-55 10. Florida 7-1-0 949 15 24. Rosalyn Fairbank-Nideffer $155,535 Passing 158 126 11. Virginia 7-1-0 924 25. Patty Fendick $150,953 Comp-Atl-lnl 17-21-1 23-37-0 12. Florida St. 6-2-0 845 12 26. Nicole Provis $150,711 Sacked-Yards Lost 2-14 3-34 13. Nebraska 8-1-0 818 3 27. Lori McNeil $146,852 Punts 2-41 6-48 14. Texas 6-1-0 782 14 28. Amy Frazier $142,596 Fumbles-Lost 1·1 1-1 15. Auburn 6-1-1 650 4 29. Laura Gildemeister $142,284 Penalties-Yards 3-26 4-27 16. Mississippi 8-1-0 600 17 30 Helen Kelesi $139,722 Return Yards 39 (-2) 17. Illinois 6-2-0 568 5 31. Robin White $135,910 Time ol Possession 32:06 27:54 18. Clemson 8-2-0 509 18 32. Manon Bollegraf $131,451 
I 9. Michigan 5-3-0 438 20 33. Dinky van Rensburg $128,218 INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 20. Oregon 7-2-0 362 22 34. Sandra Cecchini $128,114 RUSHING-New York, Anderson 14-55, Tillman 7-37, Meggelt 4-21. Penn St. 6-2-0 279 24 35. Elna Reinach $125,396 
19. Carlhon 3-7, Simms 1-(minus 1), Hosleller 1-(minus 1). 22. Louisville 8-1 -1 224 25 36. Brenda Schultz $123,769 Indianapolis, Benlley 8-29, Dickerson 9-26. 23. Southern Cal 6-2-1 148 21 37. Rachel McQuillan $121,173 PASSING-New York, Simms 17-21·1-172, Hosteller 0-0-0-0. 24. Michigan St. 4-3-1 106 38. Natalia Medvedeva $113,415 
Indianapolis, George 23-37-0-160. 25. Wyoming 9-1 -0 84 19 39. Ann Grossman $113,362 RECEIVING-New York, Meggetl 6-47. Anderson 3-24, Hampton 2-Other receiving votes: Texas A&M 73, Ohio St. 71, Oklahoma 36, 40. Claudia Porwik $113,199 
31. Bavaro 2-19, Tillman 2-(mlnus 5), Baker 1-40, Mrosko 1-16. Arizona 19, Colorado St. 18, Syracuse 17, California 13, S. 41 . Raffaella Reggi $108,008 Indianapolis. Brooks 7-47, Hesler 5-27, Dickerson 4-3, Morgan 3-53, Mississippi 4, Toledo 3, San Jose St. 2, Minnesota 1, North Carolina 42. Kathy Jordan $107,432 
Benlley 2-I 0, Verdin I-I 5. Beach 1-5. 1. 43. Catarina Llndqvist $106.304 MISSED FIELD GOAL-New York, Bahr 50. 44. Anne Smith $105,960 A-58,688. 45. Nathalie Herreman $104,899 
46. Meredith McGrath $101,874NBA ALL-STAR BALLOTS 47. Andrea T emesvari $96,882 
48. 
Claudia Kohde-Kilsch $94,524 

49. 
Elise Burgin $91,491 


The ballot for the 41st Annual National Basketball Association All-Star Game, to be 50. Wiltrud Probst $89,744 played Feb. 10 at Charlotte. N.C.: 
LEAGUE LEADERS 

EASTERN CONFERENCE WESTERN CONFERENCE Centers Centers Sam Bow1e, New Jersey; Brad Daugherty, Cleveland; Patrick Ewing, New York; Benoit Benjamin, L.A. Clippers; Randy Breuer. Minnesota; Vlade Divac, L.A. 
SOORING 
Gn G A Pis PlmMike Gmmski, Philadelphia; Bill Lalmbeer, Detroit; Moses Malone, Atlanta; Robert Parish, Lakers; Kevin Duckworth, Portland; Mark Eaton, Utah; Akeem Olajuwon, Houston; Blair Gretzky, LA 15 10 19 29 0 Cullen, Pgh 14 6 22 28 18 

Boston; J.R. Ae1d, Charlotte; Rony Seikaly, Miami; Rik Smits, Indiana. Rasmussen, Denver; David Robinson, San Antonio; Roy Tarpley, Dallas; Mark West, Phoenix. 
Forwards Forwards Charles Barkley. Philadelphia; Larry Bird. Boston: Derrick Coleman, New Jersey: Antoine Carr, Sacramento; Terry Catledge, Orlando; Tom Chambers, Phoe.1lx; 
Macinnis, Cal 16 8 19 27 16 
Larmer, Chi 16 13 1 I 24 10James Edwards, Detroit; Armon Gilliam, Charlotte; Horace Grant, Chicago; Bernard King, Terry Cummings, San Antonio; A.C. Green, L.A. Lakers; Jerome Kersey. Portland; Karl Malone, Stevens, Pgh 14 9 14 23 13Washington; Kevin McHale. Boston; Chris Morris, New Jersey; Larry Nance, Cleveland; Utah; Danny Manning, L.A. Clippers; Dan Majerle, Phoenix; Xavier McDaniel, Seatlle; Derrick 
Rocchi, Pgh 14 8 15 23 22 Turcotte, NYA I 6 7 16 23 4 Charles Oakley, New York; Chuck Person, Indiana; Scottie Pippen, Chicago; Glen Rice, Miami; McKey, Seattle; Chris Mullin, Golden State; Sam Perkins, L.A. Lakers; Dennis Scott, Orlando; 
Dennis Rodman. Detroit; Delle! Schremp!, Indiana; Dominique Wilkins, Atlanta; John Lionel Simmons, Sacramento; Charles Smith, L.A. Clippers; Otis Thorpe, Houston; Wayman Williams, Cleveland: John Williams, Washington; Kevin Willis, Atlanta. Tisdale, Sacramento; Buck Williams, Portland; James Worthy, L.A. Lakers. 
Sakic, Que I 5 9 13 22 4 Hull, StL 14 16 5 21 2
Guards Guards Muggsy Bogues, Charlotte; Maurice Cheeks, New York; Johnny Dawkins, Michael Adams, Denver; Willie Anderson, San Antonio; Rolando Blackman, Dallas; 
Leetch, NYA 16 5 16 21 6 Yzerman, Oat 1 5 9 1 1 20 2Philadelphia; Sherman Douglas, Miami; Joe Dumars, Detroit; Ladell Eackles, Washington; Tony Campbell, Minnesota; Clyde Drexler, Portland; Dale Ellis, Seatlle; Sleepy Floyd, Kendall Gill, Charlotte; Hersey Hawkins, Philadelphia; Jay Humphries, Milwaukee; Mark Houston; Tim Hardaway, Golden State; Derek Harper, Dallas; Jeff Hornacek. Phoenix; Chris Oates, StL 13 2 18 20 4 
Jackson, New York; Michael Jordan, Chicago; Reggie Lewis, Boston; Reggie Miller, Indiana; Jackson, Denver; Magic Johnson, L.A. Lakers; Kevin Johnson, Phoenix; Fat Lever, Dallas; Jeff Ricky Pierce. Milwaukee; Mark Price, Cleveland; Glenn "Doc" Rivers, Atlanta; Alvin Malone, Utah; Terry Porter, Portland; Otis Smith, Orlando; Mitch Richmond, Golden State; Robertson, Milwaukee; Brian Shaw, Boston; lsiah Thomas, Detroit; Darrell Walker, Pooh Richardson, Minnesota: John Stockton, Utah. Washington. 

~-­

page 12 The Observer 
-Houston remains unbeaten, untied 
If college football's national championship picture seems muddled, it's perfectly clear in Houston, where the Cougars are the only undefeated and untied team in the country. 
And also uninvited. 
The Cougars, serving a three­year NCAA probation, are barred from the bowls, but not from The Associated Press poll. After winning eight straight games and leading the nation in passing offense with 448.8 yards per game and total of­fense with 564.0 yards per game, they are ranked No. 3 behind Notre Dame and Washington in the poll of broadcasters and sports writ­ers. Coach John Jenkins thinks they ought to be better than that. 
"We should be ranked No. 1," he said. "If we're the only team without a blemish, we ought to be ranked No. 1." 
There is, however, one blem­ish -a probation cloud that hangs over all the accomplish­ments. The 15-page, single­spaced bill of particulars in Houston's folder at the NCAA charges the Cougar program with all manner of misde­meanors. 

"The (infractions) committee determined that a considerable number of major violations of NCAA legislation occurred in the university's football pro­gram," the report said. 
"These violations included the provision of cash and extra benefits to student-athletes on occasions so numerous that the former head football coach and his assistants, even after they began to tell the truth, were unable to recall the number of occasions they gave money to student-athletes." 
Those crimes led to the NCAA probation and the decision of the American Football Coaches Association to bar Houston from any honors, including voting for the Cougars in the United Press International coaches poll. 
"We don't think you ought to break a rule and win the cham­pionship," said Charlie McClendon, executive director 

APPI'Otl
of the coaches association. "It's University of Houston's Tracy Good (1) is tackled by Arkansas' s Chrisunfair. You're playing under a McGaughley (40) after returning a kickoff against the Razorbacks.

different set of rules." 


Sl~flll 

Includes Developing and Large 4x6 Glossy Prints. 
SAVE $6. 72 on 36 exposure roll. 
SAVE $4.98 (24 exp.), $2.24 (12 exp.) One coupon per customer. Not valid with other offers. 
Offer expires November 
Tuesday, November 6, 1990 
Saint Mary's volleyball team loses to Lewis 
By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team (13-16), staged its last comeback of the season this past Thursday in its season­ending Joss to Lewis University. 
The defending Division II Great Lake Valley Conference Champions dominated in the first game of the match. The Belles, without the services of middle blockers Sara Jisa and Ann Jagodzinski, suffered from poor passing and fell behind quickly, losing 4-15 in the first game. 
Despite their improved performance in the second game, the Belles lost 9-15. They dominated in the third match, leading Lewis 13-10 but couldn't capitalize on opportu­nities and lost the third game, 13-15. 
"We came out tentatively in the early stages of the match," said Belles head coach Sue 

The Cougars are the only remaining urn:,::d::;:ef:.,::e:,:::a~te:;d:.,:a:n::;:d:.,:u:n~ti:ed~te!.:;a~m~.---=M=e=d=Je;;.y=.=======:::::::;;~ 
Irish hockey wins first against Kent State 
Special To The Observer 
Notre Dame \ Hockey won its first game of the season, defeating Kent State, 7-4, Friday night. In their other weekend contest with Kent, the Irish brought their record to 1­3-1 by notching a tie, 5-5. The Irish will face Ferris State on Friday and Saturday, playing a home-and-home series with the Bulldogs. 
In the first game with Kent, sophomore winger Dan Marvin scored two goals, leading the Irish to a 7-4 win. Mike Curry scored his second goal, and Eric Gregoire, Matt Osiecki, Sterling Black, and Curtis Janicke also had scores for the Irish. 
Janicke, however, is doubtful for the contests with Ferris State this weekend after injur­ing his knee in the win over Kent State. This could be a se­rious blow for the Irish, as David Bankoske is also doubtful for the contests with the Bulldogs. Last year's leading scorer and, like Janicke, a cen­ter, Bankoske has been out of the lineup since injuring his shoulder against Alaska­Fairbanks earlier in the season. 

Freshman goaltender Greg Louder continued his excellent performance, despite the high scores allowed by the Irish de­fense. Loulder has logged 16 7 saves in the first five Irish games, compared with only 22 goals scored, for a save per­centage of .884. 
Notre .Dame will face Ferris State Friday night at the Joyce A.C.C., and will travel to Michigan on Saturday to take on the Bulldogs on their home ice. 
Happy Birthday 
Mr. "B" 

Love, Mom, Dad, Jeff & Katie 
NOTRE DAME: 
A Catholic Research University? 
An SUB Lecture Series on the Catholic Character of Notre Dame and its status as a university 

Dr. Ralph Mcinerny 
will give an informal lecture entitled 
Can Faith and Serious Philosophy Coexist? 
8pm Tuesday, November 6 _First Floor Lounge, St. Edward's Hall 
Professor Mcinerny is the Director of the Jacques Maritain Center here at Notre Dame. An established scholar in philosophy with many publications and experience in speaking at over 30 universities, Dr. Mcinerny has also written several novels, including the Father Dowling Mystery Seri~s. 

-~ ~~----------~-~--------------------~------­
-


The <llsetver I John Studebaker The Notre Dame volleyball team will try to pick up the pieces against MCC foes Xavier and Dayton today following a weekend loss to Western Michigan, its 20th of the season. 


Thank you all ... 
for your patience while the University Libraries convert photocopier systems. Once the bugs are 
worked out,  we are confident that the new system  
will serve your needs more effectively.  
With appreciation,  /­ 

+L !_( l'( C: ilLJl~ 
Robert C. Miller Director of Libraries 
239-6258 

The Observer page 13 
Notre Dame volleyball team faces Xavier and Dayton in MCC action 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's 
volleyball team, after dropping 
three matches to Western 
Michigan over the weekend, 
faces MCC opponents Xavier 
and Dayton on the road today. 

On Saturday, the Irish fell in 
three straight games to Western 
Michigan, losing 15-8, 15-3, 15­
5. Western Michigan, who is now 6-15 on the season, handed Notre Dame its 20th loss of the season against seven victories. 
"Let's not talk about the past, let's just focus on the future," said Notre Dame head coach Maria Perez when asked about the weekend's results. "Talking about the past gets you nowhere, and it doesn't change anything." 
Against Western Michigan, Notre Dame registered 35 kills and 21 errors in 104 attempts, for a .135 attack percentage. Western Michigan, on the other hand, nailed 31 kills and 12 errors in 88 attempts for a .216 attack percentage. 

Yet the Irish had the most trouble when serving, notching only two service aces and committing 17 service errors. Nine reception errors were made on passes, while the defense made 33 digs. Blocking was another sore spot, as Notre Dame made two block solos and eight block assists in addition to seven block errors. Western Michigan, however, nailed 10 block assists and one block error. 
The next two games for the Irish are indeed pivotal if Notre Dame intends to salvage the remainder of its season. 
"These matches are against our MCC opponents, and the team has made a group decision to try to win the MCC 
championship,"  remarked  
Perez.  "We  are  trying  to  
compete and  we  have been  

working on everything. I think that we have shown flashes of brilliance, but if I knew what our problems were, I could make a million dollars being a mind reader." 
A spunky competitor herself, Perez expects nothing short of an all-out effort by the Irish. 
''I'm looking for the whole team to get the job done," P1~rez said. "Volleyball is the ultimate team sport. I also expect that Xavier and Dayton have no fear of us right now. They will certainly come at us with guns blazing. We just have to play ­that is the bottom line. One of the male marathon runners had a good quote after the N1~w York City marathon the other day. Ile said, 'The will to win is nothing without the will to prepare.' We're not cashing in our chips -that would be really stupid. 
"We are all learning to play with the hand that has been dealt to us, and our goal is the MCC championship. These next two-and-a-half weeks, and the match against Texas are key for us. It is not the beginning of the season that matters -it is the end that is important." 
Hopefully for the Irish, the ending of the 1990 chapter of the women's volleyball story will be more fruitful than the beginning. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Off campus students wishing to play Interhall hockey should stop in the NVA office this week and sign the roster. 
Flag football deadline extended until Nov. 7. Sign up at NVA. Games Fri.-Sun. Nov. 9-11. Information at 239-6100. 
Research saves lives. 
• 

American Heart 6 Association V 
How to start 
your law career 6eforeyou start 
law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
~(e~ 
'":lt-5 ~\ \"() \.. '7>oo 

\1-\\ '7>'\_'3-(>¢ !KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAP1.AN EDUCATIONAL CENTER lTD. 
c\'3-if::> DONT COMPETE WITI-1 A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, 11111 46637 Phone 219/272-4135 

Tuesday, November 6, 1990

page 14 The Observer 
Short-term pain breeds long-term gain for Irish 
By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
With its 1-0 loss to Saint Louis in the first round of the MCC tournament last Thursday night, the Notre Dame men's soccer team ended its excruci­ating season. 
It was excruciating not only because the team finished 4-11­3, but because the team had shown so much character in a tough season. Along with a brutal schedule, the Irish had to pick up a new system, and learn to deal with new coach. 
Part of the reason for Notre Dame's failure this year has to do with having a new coach. It is no personality defect of Berticelli's, rather, anytime a new coach comes in, there is going to be tension. They were recruited and coached by someone different, and they may feel that the new coach is simply biding his time until he can get his "own" players, ones that he recruits and nurtures. From my many conversations with Coach Berticelli, I am con­vinced that this is not the case. Coach Berticelli is far too suc­cess oriented to let something that petty stand in his way. 
Many times when I talked with Berticelli, he had a saying that would capture the essence of what he is trying to accom­plish. With that in mind, it is only fitting to use some of them to clarify the situation on the men's soccer team. 
"We don't want to accept less than 100% from ourselves. " 
With only four wins to show for the season, no one would have been surprised if the team had quit on itself going into the MCC Tournament. Instead, they were positive until the very end. 
"We want to use this [game] as an opportunity to turn our season around," said senior co­captain Danny Stebbins the day before the Saint Louis game. 
Not once in the season did I see a player play at anything less than full tilt, whether it was a blowout of Valparaiso or a tough loss to Creighton. This is the sort of attitude that gets passed on to incoming players, and it should be a staple of Notre Dame soccer for years to come. 
"Short-term pain for long­term gain" 
Berticelli never promised any quick results, but chose instead to focus on the future. With a young team, that only makes sense. Exposure to and adher­ence to fundamentals may cost the team some games now, but in the future it will more than pay for itself. 

The goal for Berticelli is a Division I natiodal champi­onship for his Fighting Irish. The setbacks are only tempo­rary, a sort of growing pain. The wins will start coming. Remember what the football team's record was in Lou Holtz's first year? It was 5-6, exactly the same record it had in Gerry Faust's last year. The soccer team should follow a similar path to success. 
"Success breeds success" 
Consider Berticelli's creden­tials. He came to Notre Dame with a winning percentage of 
0.755 over 14 seasons, cap­tured nine different coach of the year awards, and two na­tional championships. The man is a winner. His previous suc­cess has an effect on the Irish, and he will breed that same kind of success at Notre Dame. 
With the top-two leading scorers (Kevin Pendergast and Kenyon Meyer), one of the top defenders (Mario Tricoci), and the starting goalkeeper (Peter Gulli) returning for next season, the future looks bright. If the Irish become a dominant team in the future, this past year will be looked at as a turning point in Notre Dame soccer. 

Dilucia 
continued from page 16 
collegiate tennis. The two had previously faced each other in the finals of the Easter Bowl Classic and also in the U.S. Open Juniors, with DiLucia taking both matches. On this occasion, though, Stark presented his opponent with a barrage of weapons, including an overpowering serve, en route to a 6-3, 6-2 win. 
"He had served better than anything I had ever seen," said DiLucia, who was pleased with his effort after losing in the first round of the same tournament last year. "He returned well in every game and had countless break points. It was just a matter of a break in both sets." 
Despite an earlier exit than he would have liked, DiLucia credits assistant coach and former teammate Brian Kalbas with providing strategy during the matches that allowed him to aptly change his game. 
"Brian had some great in­sights on my game that I wouldn't have otherwise no­ticed," said DiLucia. "He also helped me to relax and made me feel really comfortable during the matches." 

Kalbas, no stranger to the intense competition of the Volvo All-Americans, quickly recognized the quality of DiLucia's serve and made sure he continued to keep playing at such a high level during key points. 
"He was playing with a high percentage first serve throughout the weekend, and I just wanted to make sure that he kept up the pace," said Kalbas. "In the third sets against Baron and Noriega, he only missed a total of five first serves, which was phe­
nomenal." But there was more to DiLucia' game than the serve. 
"I honestly didn't think he would be able to go in and serve and volley with any of those guys he played," com­mented Kalbas. "But a high percentage of the points he won were from good decisions about when to come up to the net and when to stay back." 
Kalbas realizes the emotion involved in such a tournament, with the top 32 players in the nation forced to play a consis­tent brand of tennis for several matches. 
"It's tough to keep the tactical areas in perspective during matches like those. You get so caught up in the emotion that it's impossible to concentrate on the method of each point" said Kalbas. "I just wanted to inform Dave about the changes that he needed to make in order to win." 
DiLucia obviously took heed, and in the process gained the respect of a lot of people, re­gardless of how many national championships they have won or what awards they have won from certain magazines. 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
"We left him open and he hit a couple of threes," Sweet said. "He also had some slashing drives to the basket. He sur­prised everybody tonight." 
Still, the game was very much Ellis's show. 
"Phonz had to get more active (in the second halO, and we had to get the ball to Phonz," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "Obviously he's pretty good at getting the ball inside and getting on the line. When we get Ellis and Ellery working together inside they can be very good." 
Four players joined Ellis in double figures for the Irish. Sweet finished with 14 points, Ellery chipped in 12 and Elmer Bennett and Keith Tower added 10 apiece. Tower, a 6-11 center expected to be one of the keys for Notre Dame this year, also had 11 rebounds and managed to stay out of foul trouble. 
"It was good for Tower to get out there and bang around," Phelps said. "He missed a cou­ple of shots, but I think the more he plays, the more confi­dence he's going to get. Any points he gets right now are bonus points." 
Despite the win, the Notre Dame players know they still have a lot of improvements to make. 
"We still have to refine our game," Sweet said. "Like coach we play this type of (exhibition) game. There are still a lot of things we have to work on both on offense and defense." 
The Irish will be in action next in the Blue-Gold Charity game November 11. Their regu­lar season opener will be November 15 at home against Fordham in the first round of the Dodge National Invitational Tournament. 

NOTES-The Notre Dame student body will get a chance to meet the Irish basketball team Wednesday night at Theodore's. Phelps will join his players for a one-hour question and answer session. Door prizes will include Blue/Gold cards and autographed basket­balls, and free refreshments will be served. More details will appear in tomorrow's Observer. 
•WeDon't 
H1re Employees. 
Nissan Motor Corp. in U.S.A. will be on campus November 13. 
Students pursuing a BA/BS degree are invited to explore opportunities available at our Southern California Headquarters in the following areas: 
• Auditing • Finance 
• Consumer Affairs 
• Distrid Management, Trainees (openings available nationwide) 
For more information, stop by your placement office. 
Nissan is an equal opportunity employer and offers employment opportunities to men and women of all races, religions, national origins and ages. 

Built for the Human Race. 

said, this is one of the reasons L--·iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~-J 
The New 1991 MCAT 
Test Dates: April 27, 1991 September 14, 1991 
Test Duration: 5 hours 45 Minutes 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you'll score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your BestrM guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'll let you repeat the entire course ...at 
no charge! We offer expert live instruction, innovative home study materials unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPE® labs and lots of p~rsonal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combiQed! 
I STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
cL Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
SIGN UP IN SOUTH BEND TO A VOID A WAITING LIST FOR CLASS SEATS. 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
SIGN UP BY 12/1/90

RESERVE YOUR PLACE 
AND SAVE $45.00! 

AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 

,....--------­
Tuesday, November 6, 1990 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
12:00 p.m. Lecture: "The Draft and the Middle East: What are the chances? Legal, Religious and Political Questions," William Yolton, NIBSCO. Rm 101, Law School. Admission free. 
4:15 p.m. Lecture: "Women in the Academy: Changes and Challenges," Faculty Panel Discussion, liesburgh Library Lounge. For furtlwr info call Melodic Eiteljorge, 
2:~1J-77RO. 
6:30 p.m. Lecture: "Consequences of the Crisis" Given 
by SMC professors Joseph Miller and .Jurgen Brauer. Hag­gan, SMC. 
7:30 p.m. Film and Lecture: "Kiss of the Spider Woman." and "Cinematic P1~rspectives on Homosexuality," Ava Prnacher Collins, Communications and Theatre. lies­burgh I.ibrary Auditorium. 
7:00 p.m. Film: "Brightness." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Baked Cajun Scrod 
Southern Fried Chicken 
Roast Chicken Quarters 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
ACROSS 24 F.D.R. 'smother 48 Singer Sumac 26 One kind of 49 Author Harte 
1 Book by 10 session

Across 51 River inlet 29 Loser to D.D.E. 
& Dips bait lightly 53 lndic language 31 City on the
10 Predecessor of 56 Chavez Ravine 
Tagus estuary 

Dinkins team 
350newho

14 Off to-start 62 Kind of guard 
speaks 53

(delayed) &3 The "Iliad," e.g. 
Across 15 Wreath on 64 A.L. batting 
38 Range

Galahad's champion:
39 Elem.-school

helmet 1964-65-71
subject16 George Sand, 65 Emulate Bonriie 
40 Countdown

to Chopin Raitt
start 

17 Garments along 66 Kind of 
41 Iron, in 

the Ganges caterpillar
lnnsbruck 18 Be dressed in 67 Demolishes
42 Oilman Jean 

19 At hand Paul-&8 Egyptian cross 20 Riverfront 43 Has high regard &9 Amor's Greek Stadium team for. with "by" counterpart 
22 Snooty one 45 Expunged 70 Collect 
23 Omaha's loc. 47Agt. 

DOWN 
1 Fern. opposite 
2Jai­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S P A R D A L E~A C E S 

3 Tall tale 
L A N E I R A DIE D A V E 4 Ear-related 0 T T 0 G I V E N ~~ ~ N 5 Co pal or mastic 

THEPHI·R· 


& Certain strokes by Mehta 
EAT SIN 
SCANT.ARA NICKS 
A R R. E Rfl T A N 0 7 Sector R E 

8 Municipal maps 9 Continued story T 0 
R U E T 
EMMA······
DEALT SOL RIDER 

10 Royals Stadium 
team
.ER I SIS 
NANDSUPERMAN 

11 Augury 
DEB-OONE AIDE 

12 'Bye, in 
I S L E E L U D E E N I D 

Bologna 
SHED TROD LETS 

13 Tansy, for one 
GARY LARSON 
THE FAR SIDE 


Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 
21 Tidy 25 Reacts to yeast 26 Less common 27 Japanese breed 
of dog 28 Three Rivers 
Stadium team 30 Curl the lip 32 Kind of buddy 33 Gluck product 34 Hawaii's state 
bird 35 Recto or verso 
SPELUNKER 

36 More like Bashful 37 Influences, in a way 
44Joy ride 
48 Eradicate 
so Tosspot 
52 Marketplace 
53 Sky Bear 
54 Bridle strap 55 Damp, like a dungeon 57 Chinese: Comb. 
form 58 Susiana 59 Judy's eldest 60 Dec. 24 and 31 &1 Back talk 


As the small band of hunter-gatherers sat around cleaning their weapons, one made the mistake of looking at his club straight on. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
WW..T ~QE: ~OIJ So ~ ~ 
A.K'('flk'{? @llDNT 'fOJ Fl® 
"lL "M B\IGS ~00 ~~ ~ ~OR I!'{S£CI (!)U.£C.1\~? 
Q.IIC.~ ! Q:l HOME ~0 GET II.' ~W.t 'bJ CAN M~ IT BAcK a£F@t. 1\IE. SQIOOL B\l5 C~£S .' ~UR.~~ ! RIJ~ .' 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
"ti, ~g(£ IS ~OOR \"''5£CT 
0
COu.ECT\0~ ?? ITS 00£~~­
l'b 
~C' 
I 
\l r 






Sports 
Tuesday, November 6, 1990 
Irish defeat Athletes in Action 
By KEN TYSIAC Ellis took the game into his Action, a team made up of ex­Associate Sports Editor own hands in the second half. 
college and ex-professional
The 6-9 junior made a pair of players, in the early going. But LaPhonso Ellis calmly 'sank three-pointers, sank 12 out of midway through the first half two free throws with eight 14 free throws and led all re­Notre Dame went on a 14-0 
seconds left to provide the final bounders with 13. 
run and took a 27-1 7 lead with 
margin for the Notre Dame "He played awesome," ad­
5:33 left in the half. 

men's basketball team as the mired teammate Daimon Senior captain Tim SingletonIrish defeated Athletes In Sweet. "We're working on free started the run with a steal and 
Action 81-78. throws-he made 12 out of 14. 
a layup. Classmate Kevin ElleryThe Irish were up by a point He was just a monster in the kept it going with a three-pointwith 53 seconds left and de­second half. When he's healthy basket and a three-point play,cided to hold the ball and run he can really take over a game and junior Daimon Sweet fin­the clock down. With 13 sec­and today was one of those ished it off with three straight
onds left senior captain Tim days." 
buckets, including a 
Singleton drove to the basket "LaPhonso Ellis is big time," 
sensational slam dunk off a 
but threw up an airball. Ellis echoed Lorenzo Romar of long outlet pass from Ellis. 
wrestled the rebound out of a Athletes in Action. "As you saw, Athletes In Action cut Notre 
crowd and was fouled by Zack on the final play when they Dame's lead to 39-35 by half­Jones. After a timeout, Ellis, needed a rebound he got it. He 
time, though, and remained 
who led all scorers with 22 really wanted the ball down the 
close in the second half. 
points in the second half and 28 stretch. The great ones some Former Irish star Scott Hicks 
in the game, hit his foul shots. up with a way to win. That's led Athletes in Action with 16 
A desperation shot by Athletes what I consider to be big time." 
second-half points and 19 for In Action's Scott Hicks was off The Irish started out slowly, the game. 
the mark at the buzzer. falling behind Athletes in 
see HOOPS I page 14 
Dilucia defeats top 18-and-under player 
Irish tennis star reaches Volvo semis 
By DAVE McMAHON first match I regained my Sports Writer match toughness." When Tennis Magazine re­Against some of the finest cently named Georgia's Ivan competition ever assembled in Baron its 1990 Men's National 
one tournament, Irish All­Junior Player, it probably did American David DiLucia not foresee him losing too soon reached the semi-finals at the on the college circuit, much less Volvo All-American Tournament on his home court. DiLucia, held in Athens, Georgia before however, had other ideas, 
falling to top-ranked and upsetting the top-ranked 18­eventual champion Jonathan and-under player in the world, Stark of Stanford in straight 7-6, 4-6, 7-5 in a two and a half sets, 6-3, 6-2. hour match. The win against 
But on his drive to the most Baron, the winner of this year's prestigious tournament other coveted Easter Bowl title, as than the NCAA finals, DiLucia well as the 1990 junior Italian made some waves in the Open champion, provided 
collegiate tennis world. Friday DiLucia with the opportunity to 
against Stanford's Chris play third-ranked Jose Luis Cocotos, the number one ranked Noriega in a three hour battle. 18-and-under player in the U.S., The University of San Diego eighth seeded DiLucia took the product and semi-finalist in last first set 6-1 before a mental year's NCAA tournament came letdown allowed Cocotos to up short as well, with DiLucia blank DiLucia in the second, 6-advancing into the semi-finals 
0. In the final set, the Irish with a 7-5, 4-6, 7-5 win. junior got an early break and After five grueling hours of took the game 6-3. tennis on Saturday, DiLucia 
"Before I went down to the faced a familiar opponent on tournament, I was just hitting Sunday in Stanford's Jonathan the ball alright," said DiLucia. "I Stark, the top-ranked player in hadn't played a competitive 
see DiLUCIA I page 14

match in a while, but after that 
, 

Irish flanker Raghib Ismail has 
The brightest star in college football is just un­
emerged as a leading candidate, comfortable doing interviews. It's that simple.
perhaps the leading candidate in When a phony, smooth-talking television 
this year's Reisman Trophy race. 
correspondent remarked that Ismail always
He has gained over 200 all­
seems to be able to find a little bit extra and 
purpose yards in each of his 
make the big play when the Irish need it, Ismail past four games. 
mistook his question for a compliment.
His 94-yard kickoff return for "Thank you," he said. 
a touchdown against Miami was 
The same annoying television correspondent
the biggest single play in the 
continued to ask him stupid questions. It seems
biggest single game of the Ken Tysiac 
that no matter where Ismail goes there is some 
season. World of Sports 
local reporter who thinks that he will be the first person to find out that the Irish star plans to stayAlong with his sparkling performance on the in school next year and not jump to the Nationalfield, though, the man they call the Rocket has Football League. This guy was no different, andhad to deal with an incredible amount of media although he should have known that Raghib
attention. Perhaps the only thing in college wants to stay at Notre Dame, he asked thefootball which compares with Ismail's 
question anyway. 
explosiveness on the field is the explosion which Meanwhile, the Rocket, sweating nervouslyoccurs in the Notre Dame locker room after each under the brutally hot lights of the televisiongame when he says he is ready for interviews. 
'*;' 

cameras, was trying to be polite and gracious.
After another vintage performance against Navy 
,., 

But interviews are just not his cup of tea. 
this weekend, Ismail was mobbed by reporters in There are those who think that star athletesthe Irish locker room. Approximately 30 reporters 
..,... have a responsibility to the public. There is some
assailed him when he came out of the showers, truth to this. Professional athletes, with all of the forming a semi-circle around him and cornering money they make, do have a certain duty to thehim against the nearest available locker, where he 
could retreat no more. 

"Just three minutes, please," Ismail begged. see ROCKET I page 1 0 
The <llaeMirI km/w t..tCicakej Elmer Bennett dishes off to a teammate. Bennett and the Irish won their exhibition opener Monday night against Athletes in Action, 81-78. 


. • • The CllaetwrI Kemeth Osgood 
Raghrb lsmarl admrts to feeling uncomfortable with the tremendous amount of media attention he has received this season. 






