
VOL. XXIII NO. 126 WEDNESDAY , APRIL 18, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Tyson to be leaving Notre Dame 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Tyson admitted, however, 
News Editor that it will be difficult for him 
to leave Notre Dame. Going to 

Father David Tyson, vice Portland will be an adjustment, prPsidPnt for StudPnt Affairs at he said, as his family lives in Notm Dame. has bnnn named the Midwest. tlw 18th prnsidnnt of the He said he plans to be back to Uniwrsity of Portland. visit Notre Dame and might re­
Tlw dm·ision. dfP<'tive July 1, turn during the football season was made public T1wsday by providing he is able to "get llw UnivPrsity's Board of tickets through the alumni lot­
HPgPnts. tery." 
"Tiw Board of HPgPnts is ex­During the first week of l'ited by tlw prospPet of contin­April, Tyson said he visited the uing the University's tradition University of Portland for in­of nxeellencP under Father Father David Tyson terviews, one of his many trips Tyson's leadership," said to the campus. "It is a beautiful Chairman Philip Hobinson. Tuesday's announcement campus," with many trees and 
"Father Tyson's experience drew to a dose the search for a flowers, similar to the Notre as a tenured associate profes­successor to Father Thomas Dame campus, according to sor and uniVI!rsily administra­Oddo, president of the Tyson. tor ... dnmonstrates his commit­University of Portland since The new job will be a chal­
nwnt to higher education," 1983, who died in a car acci­lenge for him and for the first 
AP Photo

Hobinson added. dent last October, according to year he said he will be "more of Tyson, 41, has been vice Francesca Clifford of the a student." The University of 
Destroying Contra weapons 
pn~sidnnt of student affairs at University of Portland's Public Portland recently completed a 
Venezualan troops, part of the UN force in Central America,
Notre Dame since 1984. Prior Helations Office. 185 page self-study, similar to 
destroy contra weapons turned in by some 260 Indian Contras of 
to that. he served as Pxecutive ''I'm honored," said Tyson. Notre Dame's PACE report, 
the Yatama organization during a ceremony Monday. The Contra
assistant to then-president ''I'm really enthusiastic (about 
disarming was part of a March 23 accord. 
Father Theodorn llnsburgh. the position)." see TYSON I page 4 

Earth Day '90 Green Pledge used to increase awareness 
"The main purpose of the companies that offer the great-headquarters for the Earth Day
By KEVALEEN RYAN 
News Writer Green Pledge is to impress upon est environmental protection, '90 project. On Sunday, April 22 the individual that their actions said Ted Oberstar, campus co-a press conference will be held 
Tiw Earth Day '90 Green can make a difference," said ordinator of the Green Pledge where a globe with the names I'IPdgP, part of an inLPrnational James Dailey, president of the project. of each pledge will be unveiled. pffort to inrrPase Peological EAC. The "vote" and "support" Several million names are ex­awarl'rwss, is a contract in The actual pledge requires component deals with the indi-pected to bn inscribed on the whirh individuals promise to that each person let their re-vidual's ability to dictate their globe, said Obcrstar. support tlw environnwnt eeo-newed environmental eon-awareness of those manufac-wishes to the local and federal A similar movement is taking nomirally. politically and mone-seiousness shape how they act, tured products that are harm-governments. They pledge to place in over 100 foreign coun­tarily. purchase. vote and support. ful to the environment and cor-support only those candidates tries, each with there own form 
Available through Environ-They promise to attempt to porations that fail in their eco-that demonstrate a concern for of the Green Pledge. All are nwntal Action Cub O·:AU repro-"adopt a lifestyle as if every day logical responsibility. the environment. This applies similar, howevor, in the overall Sl'ntatiVPs in Parh dorm. these were Earth Day." This includes As it is diflicult to target such also to legislation that is eco-objective of a heightened piPdgns ask studPnts to aetively employing such measures as detriments, such literature as logically essential, such as the awareness of the danger our participatl' in tlw world-wide recycling waste, conserving en-"Shopping for Better World" by Clean Water Act and the Clean world is facing environmentally, struggle to d1~al with the ergy, saving water and using the Council on Economic Priori-Air Act. he said. "severn Pnvironnwntal crises" effkient transportation. ties is available to consumers As of today, over 900 pledges Along with a promise of in-that ronl'ronts our planet to-The "purchase" element of to provide a comprehensive have been collected and sent to day. the pledge involves an increased analysis of those products and San Francisco, the national see GREEN I page 4 
Kremlin cuts off Baltic a~s.U.S. leaders upset
Soviets warn -:il ;i \ . · ·· ·· · ·· : :t .... -~t. ,_ ·~--~t , < ~ Bush promises Baltic to nullify ;;~A~' -~ 4• ~~ 'response' to 


independence Moscow action 
MOSCOW !API -The Kremlin WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­said it was tightening the tap dent Bush warned Tuesday of on Lithuania's natural gas sup­
"appropriate responses" if 
ply Tuesday and rnay cut oil 
Moscow imposes announced 
and gasolirw to thn Baltic re­cuts in fuel supplies to Lithua­public for refusing to reseind nia, but also said he does not pro-indepe!ulmlce laws, Lithua­
want to damage superpower
nian leaders said. 
relations. 

But Lithuania's president "I want to be sure anything 
·I'ailed tlw republic's d!~dsions 
we do is productive," Bush 
"irTeversihle" and said an cco­
said. "Thern's been dramatic 
nomil' embargo will only 
change in the world and I don't 
stn~ngtlwn the r·esolve of 
want to inadvertently take 
l.ithuanians. 
some action that would set it 
"I hope it will consolidate our 
back." JH'oplP in our J>Paeeful strug­
The Soviet government said it gll'," Vytautas Landsbnrgis said 
had ordered drastic cuts in 
in a broadcast interview. 
natural gas supplies to Lithua­No change was immediately -----· nia on Tuesday, followed bynoticeable in natural gas used 
cuts in oil and gasoline on to lwat homes and ftwl kitclwns Wednesday. U.S. oflicials said in Lithuania. But worried they could not confirm anyLithuanians flooded the gov­slowdown. 
ernment in Vilnius with phone Senate Majority Leader Ge­ralls. 
orge Mitchell, D-Maine, and Officials in Lithuania said Minority Leader Bob Dole, H­tlwy were told of the reduction 
Kan., met with Bush at the in a telt~gram from the Soviet 
White House and said later that 
Union's gas network. No offi­the United States has an arraycial announcement came from of economic steps it could take Moscow. 
against Moscow. 

President Mikhail Gorbachev "I think it's a very serious 
see LITHUANIA I page 4 see RESPONSE I page 4 


---~ -~-~ 
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, April 18, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A testimony in 
defense of 


Dan Quayle 
For some reason, nobody likes Dan Quayle. 
Americans seem to spend a great deal of energy criticizing the Vice President, and I 
J.' think it's high time • that someone took a Barb Moran stand for ol' Danny. After all. the guy has Sports Writer a lot of good qualities --------­that the ungrateful American public has been overlooking. 
For example, Danny has a great golf game, a quality necessary for any world leader. Golf is a tough sport. and to truly excel at the game, one must h·ave the strength of a linebacker and the stamina of a marathoner. The fact that the FBI has bestowed Quayle with the code name "scorecard" stands as a testament to his prowess in this sport of sports. 
Now a few people have been getting down on Quayle for his "lack of participation" in the Vietnam War. These critics somehow forget that Dan spent a couple of traumatic years in the National Guard defending the Hoosier State from the ravages of the en­emy. I'm willing to bet hard cash that not one VC slipped over the border while ol' Deadeye Danny was on watch. 
Dan has also been unjustly ridiculed be­cause he flubbed a few lines in some obscure speeches. Just because he thought the slogan for the United Negro College Fund was "it's a terrible thing to lose one's mind, or not to have one," is no reason to think less of the guy. After all, you cannot expect the Vice President to memorize the motto of every backwater organization that pops up. Next the demanding public will probably expect poor Danny to memorize the whole Pledge of Allegiance. 

And the cruel public even mocks his inter­national diplomacy. They laughed when Dan expressed a wish to have studied Latin, so that he could better speak to the people of Latin America. How heartless people must be to chide a man for expressing such a compassionate and intelligent sentiment. See if they still tease Danny when he be­comes America's foremost ambassador to Latin-speaking countries. 
The latest Quayle joke revolves around his purchase of an anatomically correct doll while touring through one of those Latin­speaking countries. Dan thought that the toy, which displayed a proportionally cor­rect phallus, would make an interesting present for his teenage son. And why not? Is it wrong for a father to share a few manly jokes with his youngster? Daddy Dan's desire to do some father-to-son bonding should be an inspiration to us all. 
With his stellar record of achievement in the marketplace, behind the podium, at the front lines, and on the putting green, who couldn't give Diamond Dan a thumbs-up? 
I kick myself every day for not giving him my vote. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's Staff 
News 

Kevaleen Ryan Joe Moody  Production  Scoreboard Scott Brutocao  
Accent Paige A. Smoron Barbara Bryn  Kristin Costello Lisa Eaton  Viewpoint Lisa Eaton Michelle Dall Becky Pichlek  
Ad Design  Systems 

Quinn Satepauhoodle Mark Sloan Jeanne Naylor Circulation Tim Quinn Ryan Roberts Bill O'Rourke 
Lisa Gunsorek Matt Novak Graphics Bradford J. Boehm
Sports 
Rich K~u:!.!rz'------------­

The Observer {USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, April18. 
Lines show high temperatures. 

Yesterday's high: 41 Yesterday's low: 33 Nation's high: 92 
(Laredo, Texas) Nation's low: 10 (Valentine, Ne.) 
Forecast: 

Sunny and mild today with highs in the middle 50's. Partly sunny throughout Thursday with an expected high of 65. 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pre_ssure 

® © ~ ~ [IT] [Zj ~XXX~
' 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

OF INTEREST 
The Women for the Environment Club meeting A trip to Haiti is being planned for May 1990. Anyone will be held at Holy Cross Parlor at Saint Mary's today at interested in this service/learning visit should contact 
6:30 p.m. Call Teresa Lynch at 284-5517 for more infor­Mike Afflech at 239-7943 in the CSC as soon as possible. mation. Anyone wishing to take an liPS course for fall 
Vice President Arias Calderon of Panama will semester (IGGO/GI) must contact the Institute for Inter­be giving a talk tonight at 7 p.m. at the Engineering Audi­national Peace Studies department, 135 Law School, for torium. an exemption form. This form must be brought to the Of­
fice of the Registrar for processing.The Last Hospitality Lunch of the year is tomor­row at the esc from 11:30 a.m. -1:30 p.m. Certified teachers are needed for kindergarten through sixth grades for the Transition School in Seattle 
There is a Pi Sigma Alpha's Second World for homeless kids. A ministerial focus is needed and youth Events Rap Session on current issues of the Middle East ministry jobs are available. For more information, con­on Thursday at 7 p.m. in Lewis Hall. Come and discuss tact the esc or call (206) 525-2020. these issues with Professors Dowty and Gaffney. Call Sally at 283-1120 or Michelle at 283-2542 for more informa­Seven year old Craig Shergold in Atlanta is dy­tion. ing from a brain tumor. His last wish is to be put into the 
Guiness Book of World Records for the most get well Applications are available for the Appalachi~ cards received. In order to help, send cards to: Mr. Craig Summer Session on May 12-18 at the CSC. Apply by Apnl Shergold c/o Children's Wish Foundation, 32 Perimeter 
20. Center East, Atlanta, Ga. 30346. 
WORLD 

An earthquake measuring 6.4 on the Richter Two Canadian fighter jets collided over Kart-scale on Tuesday struck China's far western border with sruhe, West Germany during the early evening rush hour the Soviet Union, an area affected by ethnic unrest in re-Tuesday, killing one of the pilots and showering sections cent weeks. The State Seismological Bureau said the of this southwestern German city with flaming debris. The quake hit West Wuqia in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous second pilot suffered two broken heels after he ejected Region at 10:59 a.m. Tuesday, the official Xinhua News from the single-seat F-18 and parachuted onto a busy Agency reported Wednesday. highway. 
INDIANA 

Gov. Evan Bayh wrote a $50 
The rise in property values along the shores of check to a state wildlife fund Tuesday once-filthy Lake Erie proves that the cost of cleaning up
after failing on his state tax return to environmental problems brings economic returns. a lead­

designate any of his $1,467 refund as 

ing scholar said Tuesday. Bringing that home to Indiana, a contribution to the fund. Bayh Rep. Jim Jontz, D-Ind., agrees the Midwest will benefit in 
deputy press secretary David Dawson 

the long run from the high initial cost it may pay to re­attributed the governor's failure to duce sulfur dioxide emissions from power-generatingdesignate a contribution to the fund in plants as proposed under current clean air legislation
the box on the state income working its way through Congress. At least a $2 return 

tax form to an oversight by the governor's accountant. 
from $1 of investment in cleanup costs can be expected. 
The fund has a box on line 31 of the Indiana tax form . 
CAMPUS 
MARKET UPDATE

Notre Dame's grounds department will spray American elm trees on campus during the next one to two weeks. The trees are sprayed with the insecticide methoxychlor to control the elm bark beetle, which spreads Dutch elm dis­Volume in shares ease. Methoxychlor is an effective control sub­127.99 Million stance for this pest and is proven very safe for people and the environment. For further informa­tion contact the grounds department at 239-6537 of the Office of Risk Management and Safety at 239-7532. 
{} 0.03 S&P Composite n 

In the past, the Office of Residen~e 400.29 v 0.13 Life has accepted specific hall requests from Ill­Dow Jones Industrials coming freshman, various departments and rec­2,765.77 0 2.71 
tors. "We are now on a computer system and to 
Precious Metals

fair to all students, assignments will be made by random computer selection," said Evety·n · Gold 0 $0.10 to $375.20 I oz. Reinebold, director of Student Residences. The 
Silver 0 4.4¢ to $5.1 08/ oz.

office will continue to honor those requests for non-smoking roommates and, of course, any Source: AP needs of handicapped students. 
NYSE Index 188.91 
ALMANAC 
On April18: 

e In 1775: Paul Revere began his famous ride from Charlestown to Lexington, Mass., warning American colonists that the British were coming. e In 1934: The first laundro­mat, called a washateria, opened, in Fort Worth, Texas. e In 1949: The Irish republic was proclaimed. e In 1978: The U.S. Senate voted 68-32 to turn the Panama Canal over to Panamanian con­trol on Dec. 31, 1999. e Ten years ago: Zimbabwe, 
Rhodesia, became the indepen­
dent nation of Zimbabwe as the 
British flag was lowered at a 
ceremony in Salisbury. 


-~ --­
---~ 

Wednesday, April 18, 1990 The Observer page 3 

Ecology talk is given 
Panel discusses environment 

By L. PETER YOB News Writer 
According to Associate Law Professor Jay Tidmarsh. the chemical DDT is the reason for Earth Day, illustrating his 
point by bringing a chunk of the chemical to a discussion at LaFortune Student Center last night. 
According to Tidmarsh, if we drink milk or eat meat we have DDT in our bodies. "All of us have this in our bodies," he said. 
We don't live long enough to get the chemical out of bodies and we don't know what it does to us, said Tidmarsh. "We do know that it kills insects, harmful ones and good ones," he said. Since 1972, the use of DDT has been banned in the U.S. 
His comments came as part of a panel discussion on the political will to deal with envi­ronmental concerns. 
While Tidmarsh said that he doesn't believe that the chemi­cal harms people, he did say that, "given the political and economic situation in 1972," it 


1990 National Conference 
University of Notre Dame MAY 12 -13, 1990 
...beginning with a Rosary Procession to the Lourdes Grotto, at 8:00 on Friday evening. The remaining events begin Saturday morning at 8:00 in the J.A.C.C on campus. 
:featuredSpeakJ,rs 
Archbishop Frane Franic-Split (Yugoslavia); ...Sr. Briege McKenna-re­nowned for her healing ministry ..Bishop Michael Pfeifer -of San Angelo Texas; authorofthepastoralletter, TheGospel,MaryandMedjugorje"; ... Fr. Rene Laurentin -Authority on apparitions and author of many books on Medjugorje;...Fr. Robert Faricy, S.J. -Professor of theology at the Gregor­ian University in Rome;...Fr. Ken Roberts, author of From Playboy to Priest .... Lou Holtz -Head football coach for the University of Notre Dame. We expect that a visionary will address the conference! 
Special%essages from Medjugotje 
to this conference from Fr. Jozo; the visionaries Vicka, Marija and Ivan; the locutionists Jelena and Marijana, and the priests of St. James Parish will be shown on large screen during the weekend. A new multi-media program, similar to last year's "Portrait ofOur Lady", will be presented by Tony Cilento. 


For information write: Queen ofPeace Ministries, P. 0. Box 761 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
"If I weren't a Pope,l'd be in Medjugorje already!" 
Words of rope John Paul II, as reported by Most Rev. Paul Hnilica, Auxiliary Bishop of Rome 
'When signs like Medjugorje happen before our eyes, it is the obligation ofevery Christian to take a stance concerning them." 
M R v. Paul Hnili SJ. Aux.iliar Bisho of Rome 

_...~...,.. 

was right to ban DDT. lie 
pointed out that in other coun­
tries. banning DDT has lead to 
an increase of death from dis­
ease. 

The country of Ceylon 
stopped using DDT in 1965, the 
same year that nation had one 
death caused by malaria, he 
said. The next year there were 
thousands of deaths caused by 
malaria there. 

Other professors at the dis­
cussion, sponsored by the 
Earth Day Committee, spoke 
about the differences between 
what we can do for the envi­
ronment, and what we actually 
do. · 

Professor Lloyd Ketchum, as­
sociate professor of civil engi­
neering said that we now have 
the skill and technology to deal 
with water waste. but we don't 
have the political will. 

Professor Helen Bowers, as­
sistant professor of finance, 
noted ethical considerations 
that environmentalist should 
consider. "Ethically, how arc 
we going to deal with the prob­
lem of who is going to bear the 
cost of the environmental 
movement?" she asked. 



Senate tells of future events 
By PETER AMEND News Writer 

Fred Tombar, student body vice president, told the Student Senate that an opinion poll of eight questions concerning the role of student government will be distributed to the student body. 
Tuesday the Senate also an­nounced the following upcom­ing events: 
•The 
Junior Scrapbook will be available for sale today through Friday during the afternoon at Montgomery Theater, and Thursday and Friday at the dining halls. The cost is $8. 

•The 
Student Business Board decided last Tuesday to change the Cellar music store into a video rental shop. However, the selection of movies available to the student body will be screened by the Office Student Activities. 

• 
Lisa Bostwick, district two senator, proposed a bill "that the Student Senate approve payment of wages of $45 per week for the General Manager, and $15 per week for the assis­tants as fair compensation for the work performed." The Senate passed the bill with an unanimous vote. 


SECURITY BEAT 
FRIDAY, APRIL 13 
Lewis Hall resident reports 12-speed bike taken 11om rack. Grace hall resident reports wallet and contents taken from desk. 
SATURDAY, APRIL 14 
Grace Hall resident reports jewelry taken from dresser. Suspicious juveniles reported in Grace Hall. Grace Hall resident reports wallet and contents missing from dask. 
SUNDAY, APRIL 15 
Morrissey Hall resident reports car broken into while parked in 0·1 lot, stereo taken. 



page 4 
The Observer I L. A. Scott
Underdogs in underwear 

"Mom always said don't play ball in the house" defeated the "Palmer's Boys" (in their BVDs) 21-19. The former had, however, the unfair advantage of more protection against the elements. Bookstore officials have declined comment as to whether or not the uniforms are really against Dulac. 
The· Observer 




Tyson 
continued from page 1 
complete with recommenda­tions for the future. This book should prove to be a "big help," Tyson said. 
Tyson holds a bachelor's de­gree in sociology, and a mas­ter's degree in theology from Notre Dame. He also holds a doctorate in higher education administration from Indiana University and has served on the Notre Dame faculty ·since 1980. 
"I love teaching," said Tyson, but he believes it would be un­realistic to teach during his first year as president. He 

Lithuania 
continued from page 1 
on Friday gave Lithuania 48 hours to repeal several laws backing its March 11 declara­tion of independence. He said if Lithuania refused, the Soviet government would impose an embargo on goods that other­wise could be exported for hard currency. 
Lithuania depends on Moscow for oil and gas, the Soviet Union's biggest earners of hard currency. 
A telegram sent to Lithuania's gas authority Tuesday said: "Implementing the orders of the government of the Soviet Union and those of the state gas concern ... supplies of nat­ural gas to the Lithuanian So­viet Socialist Republic will be hopes that later he will be able to teach classes at Portland. 

Although his predecessor did not live in a student residence hall, Tyson said be is looking into the possibility~ of living in a dormitory. Tyson, a Dillon Hall resident, said he has already been contacted by Portland's office of residence life about his accommodations for next year. 
The ten-member presidential search committee, chaired by Regent David Grove, named two finalists, and the candidates were interviewed by the search committee, alumni, faculty, students, senior administra­tors, administrative deans, staff, and the University's reli­gious community, said Clifford. 
sharply reduced from the 17th of April." 
The telegram was signed by an official named Mochernyuk, identified as the acting general director of the Soviet Union's western gas network. 
The text was broadcast on official Lithuanian radio, moni­tored by the British Broadcast­ing Corp. in London. 
Western reporters have been barred from Lithuania to re­port on the political crisis since last month. 
Speaker Alexandras Abisalas read the telegram to the Lithuanian Supreme Council legislature. Lawmakers met to discuss a response to Gor­bachev's ultimatum. 
Tass news agency reported that in opening the discussion, Landsbergis said the Lithuanian 
Wednesday, April 18, 1990 
The search committee then reviewed individual and group evaluations of the finalists, and made its recommendation to the Board of Regents for ap­proval. 
Arthur Schulte, who has served as acting president at the University of Portland since October, will resume his posi­tion of executive and financial vice president, Clifford said. 
The University of Portland is an independently governed, residential, four-year Catholic university offering a curriculum of arts, sciences, humanities and professional programs at the undergraduate and gradu­ate levels. 
pro-independence moves were "irreversible," although "Lithuania will search for a di­alogue by all possible means, through various channels." 
President Bush said in Wash­ington the United States was "considering appropriate re­sponses" if Soviet economic threats against Lithuania were implemented. But he also said he did not want to damage su­perpower relations. 
"I want to be sure anything we do is productive," Bush said. 
Landsbergis asked Bush on Tuesday to make it clear to Gorbachev that an economic embargo on Lithuania would be an act of aggression, but he de­clined to say if he thought Bush should cancel a planned Wash­ington summit with Gorbachev in June. 


Green 
continued from page 1 
creased consciousness, the Green Pledge also requests in­
dividuals to include a donation. This money goes to defraying the cost of Earth Day propa­ganda. All surplus funds are then sent to the Catholic Relief Services where they, in turn, di­rect the funds towards various environmental projects. 
According to Oberstar, pledges are still available for interested students to help to attain EAC's goal of 2,000 sig­natures and $800 from the ND/SMC community. 
In addition, he stated that this project was designed to be more than just a petition. The names and addresses of the pledges will be complied for lobbying purposes and become a tool to promote favorable en-· vironmental legislation. 

Response 
continued from page 1 
matter, a very serious, delicate situation," Mitchell said after­ward. 
Mitchell said that, based on 
what happens in Lithuania, 
Bush should review whether the 
United States proceeds with 
closer cooperation with 
Moscow on trade, tax matters 
and the environment. "I regard 
the action taken by the Soviets 
as wrong," Mitchell said. 
Dole, who briefed Bush on his 
trip to the Middle East, said 
any steps that Congress takes 
on Lithuania should be done in 
consultation with the president. 
"So far he's made no specific 
recommendation," Dole said. 
Lawmakers have warned that 
Congress might act on its own 
with economic pressure against 
Moscow if the Soviets escalate 
efforts to block Lithuania's 
drive for independence. 
Responding to the latest news, Bush said the United States was monitoring devel­opments "very, very closely;' 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 
~ ~!~De£>!J2iW~ 
ATTENTION! 


FRESHMEN & SOPHOMORES 
RECEIVING 
FINANCIAL AID 
FULFILL ALL OR PART OF YOUR REQUIRED WORK STUDY HOURS BY WORKING AT ... 

lr/ h




ltaf~ens 
FOR THE 1990-1991 ACADEMIC YEAR APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT IRISH GARDENS APPLICATIONS DUE WEDNESDAY APRIL 25, 1990 WE ARE ALSO ACCEPTING APPLICANTS FOR DELIVERY PEOPLE FOR NEXT YEAR. 
Basement of the LaFortune Student Center 12:30-5:30 Daily We deliver to ND, SMC, and HOLY CROSS. 
APWOBKS 

Wednesday, April 18, 1990 The Observer page·S 
Be human, like God, says Himes 
By KATE MANUEL 
News Writer 
Being a religious believnr and being a critieal intellectual are not mutually exclusive, aecord­ing to Hev. Michael Himes' re­sponse to the question, "If you knew you were going to die to­morrow what would you say tonight'?" 
In a lecture last night, the second in the "Last Words" Inc­tun~ series sponsored by Stu­dent Government, Himes, an associate professor of Theol­ogy. describ1~d being a critieal intnllnctual as a way of wor­ship, asceticism, and self-give. 
Borrowing the coneept of a "definitive message" from the philosopher Kierkegaard, Himes said, "What I want to try to do is say the definitive mes­sage quite definitively at least once. The problem is that for many people being a believer means not being critical... Will a believer not have to dull the edge of criticism? Can you re­ally believe fully and truly and still be a critical intellectual? If it is possible to be a Christian believer and a critical intellec­tual, you must be it." 
"Bp,ing an intP-llertual is a way of worship. One of thP-most powerful images was uttered within 150 years of Christ's dnath... that the glory of God is a human being fully alive," said Himes. "Gem~sis begins by say­ing we are humans in God's im­age. When we are most fully human, we are most like God. To be fully alive as a human being is to glorify God most completely." 
A Christian believer has the obligation to ask questions rather than avoid them, ac­cording to Himes. lie said, "The Christian intellectual must at­tempt to be as rigorously intel­lectual as possible. We have an obligation to ask the pertinent questions. If our faith prevents us from asking questions, it prevents us from being the glory of God in the world. By and large religious people drive me nuts. I would much rather sit down with a full-blown atheist than a half-baked be­liever." 
Himes disagreed with the ar­gument that relativism presents a great danger to Christianity today. "There is only one abso­lute truth and no one knows it. The absolute truth reveals itself but is not discovered. Every­thing we have is an approxima­tion of the truth. The fact is precisely that we are committed to an absolute truth, that of the mystery of God, and all our other truths are relative. Be­cause we arc relativists, no question is left unopened for us, " said Himes. 
lie cited Darwin as the fore­most asceticist of the 19th cen­tury and mentioned science as one of the primary means of asceticism today. He said, "the point of asceticism is not to lose oneself, it is to get oneself out of the way to notice what is there. Asceticism is not a flight from the world, it is a great embrace of the world. One must stop looking in the mirror to look out the window. To see anyone else as he or she is is beginning to see God." 
By pointing to the "self-give" of teaching as the purpose of being educated, Himes dis­agreed with the claim that the intellectual life is entirely self­indulgent. "One learns in order to teach; there is no point in learning without teaching. What we received as a gift we must give as a gift. In fact, the only things we really have are those we give away. If you re­ally want to ask critical ques­tions well, you must help others ask critical questions well." he said. 
He defended human restless­ness and questioning by n~fer­ring to the "Confessions" of Augustine. He said, "It would be impossible for me to give my last lecture without Augustine ... Augustine has been more real to me than most people I bump into or have lunch with. The great discovery of the "Confessions" is the point when he discovers that restlessness is not a problem, not a obstade, it is what leads him to God not what blocks him from God. The best thing about us is that we 

. The Observer 1L. A. Scott 
Fathe_r M1ch~el H_ir:nes _stressed the importance of religious belief when combmed w1th cnt1cal mtellectualism. This was the second in the "Last Words" _lecture_ series in response to the question, "If you knew you were gomg to d1e tomorrow what would you say tonight?" never stop asking questions, swer will have to be no. I've that we are never satisfied, our never had the wisdom or inability to ever say that any-courage to do it. I am con­thing is good enough. You have vinced that God ean be glorified to be endlessly uncomfortable by giving partial answers quite to yourself and others. Every falteringly. While I go to con­statement that begins 'all you front this question, what I wish need' is a lie." for you is that the next genera­
tion of believers and critical in­
Himes concluded by returning tellectuals is that. when you arn to the idea of a "definitive mes­called to go on a quest for sage" and questioning whether truth, it may not seem better to he had given such a message in rest and that the quest may his own life. He said, "The an-toss you into God's arms." 
Europeans lash out at Bush for environmental 'inaction' 
WASHINGTON (APJ President Bush called for more research "to sort out the science·: of global warming Tuesday, but ran into a storm of criticism at an international White House conference from Europeans who argued for ac­tion. 
"Gaps in knowledge must not be used as an excuse for worldwide inaction," declared Klaus Topfer, the West German environmental minister. 
Bush said he hoped the con­ference, attended by delegates from 19 nations, would prod international research and in­ject economic issues into the debate over the "greenhouse" effect. 
The president called for re­solving some of the scientific uncertainties and economic im­plications before making a commitment to specific pollu­tion controls to deal with pos­sible gradual warming of the Earth. 
"Environmental policies that ignores the economic factors­the human factors-are des­tined to fail," he said, maintaining anew that some 
scientists are in wide disagreement over the impact of manmade pollutants on the temperature of the globe. 
Many of the European partic­ipants, especially the West Germans and the Dutch, said the conference agenda was narrowly arranged to prevent open discussions of policy aimed at dealing with global warming. 
Topfer suggested the German delegation would pursue such discussiohs, adding, "The gravity of the situation requires immediate, determined action." 

3 & 6 MILE RUNS 
NEW DIVISIONS 
UNDERGRADUATE 22-35 36-45 46-55 56 ANDOVER 
$4 IN ADVANCE $5DAYOF NEATT-SHIRTS 
WEAR GREEN AND GET A BUCK BACK 
Similar views were expressed by members of other delega­tions, including Dutch and French officials. 
Discussions about further re­search and economic consider­ations should "not distract us from taking action on carbon dioxide stabilization now," Hans Alders, the Dutch envi­ronmental minister, told the conference during a closed working session. 
"We needed Love Canal be­fore hazardous waste was tackled. We needed a dying River Rhine before waste water was treated...My country has decided to learn the lessons from the past and act on global warming now," Alders told the delegates. according to a tran­script made public by the Dutch delegation. 
"I know there's a debate raging out there," Bush said in his welcoming remarks to the delegates, all Cabinet-level min­isters involved in environmen­tal, economic and science is­sues. But he said he was confi­dent that more research and examination of economic fac­tors before action to curb "greenhouse" pollutants such as carbon dioxide "is the way to go." 
At back-to-baek news confer­ences later in the day, senior· White House officials and lead­ers of the European Community sought to play down the extent of the discord at the conference and said the day's sessions had produced considerable "common ground" on the need for additional scientific and economic research. 
The Smart College Student's Summer Checklist 
l. Job applications 
2. /USB SUMMER SCHEDULE* 
li------1990SUMMER SESSIONS -----•1 INDIANA UNIVERSITY ATSOUTHBEND Session I: May 14-June 25 (Register May 9-10) Session II: July 2-Aug. 13 (Register June 26-27) 
*Summer Schedules available from IUSBAdmissions Office, 1700 Mishawaka Ave., P.O. Box 7111, South Bend, IN 46634 (phone 219-237-4455). 

Ma·ke this summer count 
page 6 The Observer 
New 'radicals' in Moscow run city 
MOSCOW (AP) -The radicals running the Moscow city council discussed getting rid of the giant bust of Lenin from their meeting hall Tuesday, then spent their lunch hour at an anti-corruption rally next to Red Square. 
That was only the beginning for the new dominant force in city hall, which wants to turn the capital of communism into an experimental economic zone where the free market reigns and foreign cash flows freely. 

"We'll be trying to bring in a program of the privatization of the economy," said Lev Bal­ashov, a member of the Demo­cratic Russia bloc that took control of more than 60 per­cent of the 495 council seats in an election in March. 
The key figure in the eco­nomic revolution brewing in t this city of 9 million is Gavriil Popov, an outspoken economist
' 
f and lawmaker whom the coun­
r I cil is expected to elect mayor 
I Wednesday. 
I Popov, rotund and steely 
r haired, has pushed for free­
~ 
market concepts to replace the Soviet planned economy. He was always in the minority, un­til now. 
Popov refused to be inter­viewed during a break in Tues­day's session, but his bloc's plans are laid out in Kommer­sant, a new business newspaper with a decidedly capitalistic slant. 
Proclaiming that under Popov's administration Moscow's reforms would far outpace the country as a whole, it said the city would "become a testing zone for economic re­form," leading the way for Jess­progressive areas. 
The newspaper listed among plans being worked out by the Democratic Russia bloc's "Group on Urgent Measures": 
-moves to free the private businesses known as coopera­tives from a tangle of regula­tions. 

-incentives to attract foreign capital "on an unprecedented scale for Moscow," including easing rules on long-term leas­ing of buildings and allowing firms to pay in part with ser­vices to ease city problems. 
-a virtual free market in agricultural produce. 
-a "visiting card" system that would allow goods in Moscow to be sold only to Mus­covites with proof of residence. 
-takeover and redistribution of some Communist Party property and sell-off of some government property. 
The program aims to heal Moscow's deplorable state with an injection of what Kommer­sant calls "commercial activ­ity," and what most would call capitalism. 
There has been no Kremlin reaction. The city is largely in­dependent when it comes to funding. 
Radicals are banking on being able to do more to change the economy. They say President Mikhail Gorbachev, who began instituting reform after coming to power in 1985, is in­creasingly oriented toward a market economy. 
Moscow clearly needs help, as Pravda reported Tuesday: "Public transport works badly, the housing program is on the point of breaking down, the health system is in a depressing state, the list of food and goods shortages is lengthening, the ecology is getting worse, finan­cial prospects are unclear and · the crime rate is growing." 
But the new council's first session, which began Monday, raised doubts about how effec­tive it would be, despite the Democratic Russia bloc's olans. 
Legislators bogged down for hours in procedural wrangles typical of Soviet bloc parlia­ments. 
"Most of these people are ac­tivists," said Boris Kagarlitsky, a sociologist and member of the socialist faction in the Democratic Russia bloc. "They can't tell the difference between a public rally and a council ses­sion." 
With such inefficiency in the council, "the prospect for Moscow is a disaster," Kagarl­
itsky said. "There are two pos­sible outcomes -either chaos or catastrophe within six months. They'll have problems with electricity, with food shortages, and probably the city can go bankrupt." 
Members of the "Moskva" or Moscow bloc, which unites 95 council deputies who basically follow the Communist Party line, also predict dire days for the ~ity under the radicals. 
Vladimir Gruzdev, of the Moskva bloc, said many feared that the city would return to "early, uncontrolled capital­ism," and lose the social guar­antees of communism. 
Members of Democratic Rus­sia accuse Moskva deputies of planning to "sabotage" their reforms, and Moskva members accuse Democratic Russia of wanting to use them as scape­goats and "saboteurs" when the reforms fail of their own accord. 
Wednesday, April 18; 1990 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health. Problem. 
Dear Nursing Boards 
booster, 
(Excerpts from actual letters* 
Stanley H. Kaplan has received from 
satisfied NCLEX-prep takers.) 
"Not passing the NCLEX the first time was the worst thing to happen to me ... taking Kaplan was the best thing fve everdone ... " 
-Studentfrom Betkeley; California 
I feel that your nursing program is solely responsible for my 550 point increase ... " -Student from Birmingham, Alabama 
"I hadn't studied for my first NCLEX and did not pass. Kaplan really motivated me to study hard to achieve a passing score the secondtime around ... " 
-Studentfrom New York City; New York 
No one but Kaplan gives you small classes led by ex­perienced nurses, and a tape review series. So ifyou want the bestand most experienced in test prep, do what these RNs did. Call Kaplan! S1 
'IF YOU'D LIKE TO READ MORE LETTERS LIKE THES~. 
•KAPLAN
COME VISIT US. ~ 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 

Gene found linked to alcoholism 
---~ --~------------~­
Wednesday, April18, 1990 
The Observer page 7 
AP Photo Masked Arab youths raise a Palestinian flag in protest of the 150 Jewish settlers who moved into the Arab Christian section of Old Jerusalem. Although the Jewish District Court has ruled for the evic­tion of these Israelis, demonstrations like these continue. 
Jeru.salem Court upholds eviction of Jewish settlers 
JEHUSALEM (AP) -A dosed doors before issuing a Jerusalem District Court panel ruling that accused the settlers' on Tuesday upheld an order to lawyers of "an improp1~r use of evict 150 Jewish settlers whose procedures, to say the least." move into the Arab Christian The judges ruled that a stay quarter of the Old City has fu­of the eviction notice granted 
eled anti-Israeli protests. Friday by a single District 
The settlers immediately ap­Court judge was improperly ob­pealed the decision, but it was tained. "We invalidate it," the rejected by the same District judges wrote. Court in a hearing before a sin­They took the unusual step of gle judge. In that hearing, assessing court costs of $5,000 Judge Huth Orr ordered the set­to the settlers' lawyers, appar­tlers to evacuate the building by ently for attempting to thwart Wednesday morning, army ra­the Israeli legal system. dio said. Judge Yardimus Zailer 
Jerusalem Police spokesman presided over the three-judge Uzi Sandori said police were panel, which also included studying the court decision. Judge Shalom Brenner, who on 
The settlers said they plan to Friday stayed the eviction appeal the eviction order to the order. Supreme Court. They also said The ruling said the settlers' they would not resist police at­lawyers, in asking Brenner for tempts to evict them. a stay, had failed to mention 
"Of course we will not resist another judge turned down a the police," said one settler separate request for a stay who identified himself as Doki. hours earlier. "But there is no reason for "The judges have canceled the them to come tomorrow." stay. They (the settlers) must 
Early Tuesday, a three-judge be evicted," said Avraham So­panel of the District Court con­chozolsky, a lawyer for the ferred nearly four hours behind Greek Orthodox Church. 
ROSS UNIVERSITY SCHOLARSHIPS/FINANCIAL AID SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
• 
American Medical School Curriculum 

• 
Guaranteed clinical rotations 


• 
Approximately 1400 graduates are doing internships and residencies or""' licttnoed and in private practice throughout the U.S.A. 


VETERINARY MEDICINE 
• 
American Veterinary School Curriculum 

• 
Listed il! AVMA Directory. Only foreign vet ochool doing clinical rotation• in U.S.A. 

• 
We are affiliated with U.S. Veterinary ochools 

• 
Approximately 300 graduate D.V.M.'a""' in private practice throughout the U.S.A. Ia the eveat you are aot accepted to a U.S. Medical or Veterlaary School oryour chlce, BOSS II yoyr BeH AI!srullnl 


Now accepting appllcatlom for both ochoolo for Spri11g, Fall, a: Winter_..,... Placu ore still available for Sept. '90 veterinary clua and June/October '90 medical c!ua. 
International Education Admissions, Inc. 460 W 34th StrMt, NYC 10001 (212) 279-5500 
CIIICAGO (AP) -Hesearchers genetic factors contribute to dation of the A-2 alleln with say they have pinpointed for the the disorder. non-alcoholism," said Dr. first time a g1me that may make Scientists exploring possible Ernest P. Noble, a co-leader of 
people prone to akoholism, genetic factors have previously the study and director of the adding weight to th1~ argument implicated three chromosomes Alcohol Hesearch Center at the that akoholism is a disease and as possibly having a role, but University of California, Los 
not a moral weakness. no one before has isolated any Angeles. 
Government scientists called gene on those chromosomes as th1~ finding "provocative and likely culprits, the researchers The A-1 allele was present in promising," even if it requires said. 69 percent of the alcoholics, morn study, but a leading inves­Chromosomes arc threadlike but only in 20 percent of non­tigator in the field dedared it structures comprised of thou­alcoholics, the researchers re­
was impossible to say an sands of individual genes, the ported. "alcohol genn" had been iden­"fingerprints" of DNA that Such a high correlation was tifind. carry each cell's hereditary surprising, given that alco­blueprint. A person's traits are holism comes in a number of 
The rnsnarchers rnportnd in determined by the nearly types and is almost certain to Wednesday's Journal of the 100,000 genes in each cell. have a number of causes, the Amnrican Medical Assor.iation The gene pinpointed in the researchers said. 
that thny found a particular new study has two alternative gene on a ehromosomn previ­forms, each of which produces "A large majority' of alco­ously linknd with aleoholism to one form of a type of nerve cell holics in the present study had be far morn common in aleo­called the dopamine D2 recep­experienced repeated treatment holies than in non-aleoholies. If tor, believed to play a key role failures in their alcoholic reha­vnrifind. the finding would rep­in experiencing pleasure. bilitation and the cause of rl~snnt llw first spncifie idnntifi­The researchers looked at death was primarily attributed eation of a gPnntie root for al­both forms of the receptor -to the chronic damaging effects coholism. tlw "A-1 allele" and the "A-2 of alcohol on their bodily sys­
allele" -in brain matter from tems," the researchers wrote. 
Aleoholism, which afflicts an the cadavers of 70 subjects, 35 estimated IS million AmNicans. alcoholics and 35 non-alco­It is possible the A 1 allele is tends to run in families, and holics. associated with a particular pmvious studins of familins and "Wn found a vnry high asso­sub-type of virulent alcoholism of adoptnd twins havn sug­ciation of thn A-1 allele with al­in which the person fails to re­
l!estnd that nnvironnwnt and eoholism and a very high asso-spond to treatment. they wrote. 
BUY ONE PAIR GET ONE FREE. IN ONE HOUR 

AN OFFER FOR PEOPLE \\1m VISUAL SENSE. AND COMMON SENSE. 
Here's an offer for your stylish side and your practical side. It's Pearle's Common Sense Offer. Choose from famous brand name frames like Halston, Cosmopolitan, Versailles, Stetson, Porsche Design by Carrera and LaCoste. And when you present the coupon and buy any complete pair ofglasses, you'll get asecond pairfree from our specially tagged collection. Or get afree pairofDuraSoft® clearcontacts when you purchase any pairofDuraSoft®Colors contact lenses. And be sure to get athorough eye exam from one ofthe experienced Doctors ofOptometry at Pearle. 
IKNc -FREEGlASSES--,---FREEcomAcrs-LNCI 
I 
1Buy acomplete pair ofglasses at regular price and 1Get apair ofDuraSofrclearcontacts (same prescrip-1 get asecond pair (same prescription) free, from our tion) free when you purchase any pair of DuraSofrI specially tagged collection. Offer includes most single vision I Colors contact lenses. Coupon must be presented at time of I and bifocal prescriptions. Some lens restrictions apply. Valid through I order. No olherdiscounts apply. Valid through June 9, 1990 at participat· I June 9, 1990 at participating Pearle locations. Minimum firsl pair pur· ing Pearle locations. Eye exam and care kit nol included.I chase $75. Progressives. tints and coatings available at additional charge I I on second pair. Complete glasses include frames and lenses. Coupon DuraSojt'tblors
I I 
must be presented at time oforder. No olherdiscounts apply.
I 
L 
PEARLE EXPRESS PEARLE EXPRESS
...L .J 
II~ADI ~ rvnocrr~ 

UNIVERSITY CENTER rUfnLcIJ!f.'IL» SCOTTSDALE MALL 6502 GRAPE ROAD NEAR TARGET NEXT TO SERVICE MERCHANDISE fi lASSEs IN HOUR'
ONE 291-1792 277-7723 
Eye Examinations available from Independent Doctors of 
Optometry. Dr. J. F. Longenecker Dr. D. Cukrowicz Optometrist Optometrist 272-9898 299-0961 

'In most cases. 
page 8 The Obaerver Wec;lnesday, Apr~ 18, 1990 
Court says religion doesn't authorize illegal drug use 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Supreme Court said Tuesday there is no constitutional right to take illegal drugs, such as peyote, for religious reasons. 
Dissenting justices said the 6­3 ruling permits religious op­pression of Indians and per­haps others with unorthodox views. 

The court ruled that Oregon officials may deny unemploy­ment benefits to two fired drug counselors who took small amounts of peyote, a cactus "button" containing the hallu­cinogen mescaline, in Indian religious ceremonies. 
Justice Antonio Scalia, writ­ing for the court, said it "would be courting anarchy" to let a few do what is illegal for every­one else. 

"We have never held that an individual's religious beliefs ex­cuse him from compliance with an otherwise valid law prohibit­ing the conduct that the state is free to regulate," he said. 
But Scalia said states may 
Beating deadline 
aHow religious use of illegal drugs. 

In fact, many states and the federal government already permit use of peyote in religious ceremonies. 
In other rulings, the court: 

•Made 
it more difficult for employers to withdraw recogni­tion of a labor union represent­ing striking workers after new employees are hired to break the strike. The justices, voting 5-4 in a Texas case, reinstated a National Labor Relations Board policy against presuming the new employees oppose the union. 

•Ruled 
9-0 in a case from Illinois that lawsuits charging employers with violating a key federal anti-bias law may be filed in state as well as federal courts. 


In the peyote case, Justice Harry Blackmun wrote a sting­ing dissent that said the court reduced religious freedom for Indians to "an unfulfilled and hollow promise." 

APPhoto 
Welcome Mandela 

Music fans give clenched fist salute and hold an African National Congress flag at London's Wembley Stadium Monday, prior to the start of the Nelson Mandela concert. Organizers of the event claim that the concert will be watched by millions of people in 40 different countries. 
Inflation rate highest since 1982 
Postal employee Charles Hobb collects a late federal tax return from a driver outside a post office near Capitol Hill in Washington late Monday to beat the midnight deadline for filing your tax return. The U.S. Capitol can be seen in the background. 
The 
MUSLIM STUDENTS' ASSOCIATION PRESENTS "THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN 
CHRISTIANI1Y AND ISLAM" 
ALECTUREBYANWARZAINAL 
FRIDAY, APRIL 20 
4:45 
MONTGQMBRYTHEATER (LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER) 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Con­sumer prices, fueled by sharp increases in clothing, housing and medical costs, shot up 0.5 percent in March to push infla­tion to the highest level since 1982, the government said Tuesday. 
Private economists saw the unexpectedly brisk advance in the Labor Department's Con­sumer Price Index as a dis­couraging sign that inflation was not retreating as they had hoped. 
The inflation rate is "dangerous and potentially devastating for financial mar­kets and the economy," said Allen Sinai, chief economist of the Boston Co. 
Through the first three months of the year, inflation has risen at an annual rate of 
8.5 percent, the fastest quar-_ 

Q 

terly increase since a 1 0.1 per­cent increase in the spring of 1982. 
Part of the surge earlier in the year was attributed to an unusually cold December that froze crops along the Gulf Coast and sent fuel oil prices skyward. But March declines in energy and fruit and vegetable prices were not enough to off­set widespread increases else­where. 
The March figures are "a reminder that inflation is a chronic problem, that it's not going away and it's not getting better," said Cynthia Latta, an economist at DRI-McGraw Hill. 
While inflation is still ex­pected to slow in coming months, the March figure sent some economists scurrying to revise upward their forecast for the entire ye_a_!. Some said consumer prices could rise by 5 percent for all of 1990. That would be up from a 4.6 percent increase in 1989 and the high­est annual rate since 1981. 
The bad news on inflation had a negative impact on finan­cial markets, pushing the yields on bond prices up as investors demanded more insurance against inflation threats. Stock prices retreated but recovered somewhat later in the day. 
In another economic report Tuesday, the government said industrial production rose 0. 7 percent in March, reflecting a rebound in auto production. It was the second consecutive strong showing and provided evidence, some analysts said, that the slump in American manufacturing may finally be coming to an end. 
YEARBOOK DISTRIBUTION 
Books can be picked up at Theodore's April 19th-21st 11:00-5:00 
I.D. IS REQUIRED 



.------~---------~~ ----­
Viewpoint
Wednesday, April 18, 1990 page 9 
~~ Ihe _Qbser:ver __ 
PO. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Edltor-ln-Chlel 
Alison Cocks Managing Editor Bualn... Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor.......................Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager .........Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ...............Michelle Dall Ad O..lgn Manager............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor .....................Greg Guffey Production Manager ........Joe Zadrozny Accent Edltor.................Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ....Bemard Brennlnkmeyer Photo Editor .........................Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........Corinne Pavlis Controller .......................Chrla Anderson Art Dlrector..................Michael Muldoon 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University ol Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily rellect the policies ol the administration ol either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-In-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, VIewpoint Editor, Accent Edilor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenlarles, letters and Inside Column present the views ol the authors. Column space is available to all members ol the community and the lree expression ol varying opinions on campus through 
letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS 

Celebrity status fails to justify immorality 
Dear Editor: way legitimizes a morally ques­Catholic pmeepts upon which 
Once again, the homosexual tionable action. Can young drug this university was founded. community at Notre Dame has users look to such "positive" Could an abortion clinic adver­attempted to justify their prac­role models as Edgar Allan Poe, tise its services. or a racist tice in school-sponsored publi­Richard Barrymore, Dwight group announce its platform, in cation, and once again they Gooden and Eric Clapton? Do the pages of a Notre Dame have used the same illogical they make their vices accept­publir.ation? Y1~t the methods towards their peren­able? They do not, and Calvin homosexuals ean print a meek, nial goal: the inculcation of the Klein cannot make unassuming ad that belies the legitimacy of their practice to homosexuality legitimate. radically offensive lifestyle they the Notre Dame community. I noted the conspicuous ab­advocate. Their methods do 
Their method this time is to sence of such figures as Hock make sense, though. If you place another advertisement, Hudson and Liberacc, who di1~d package it good enough, you subtle in style but offensive in as a result of their homosexual can make anything acceptable,
Racial stereotypes thrive upon content, with a list of promi­activity. Are these figures so and they do need to do a nent figures who, we are told, embarrassing to the homosex­considerable amount ofblatant ignorance and denial were or arc homosexual. The ual community that they would packaging. /Jear J:'ditor: militants" in her reference to sidebar then reassures homo­as soon we forget them? Again, I was deeply perturbed by a the African-American commu­sexuals that "You're in good prestige cannot make a wrong This is another example of rnnmt article by Alva Lewis en­nity here at Notre Dame. Why company" if you are homosex­a right. the homosexuals attempting to 
titled, "Heflections of is it that when we, as African­ual. The logic behind this ad This ad is typical of the illogi­"sell" their practice on the Minorities" (The Observer, American people, come together would seem to be that you can cal. insulting campaign by the unassuming publie, and what April 9). Besides writing the to voiee our grievances or be homosexual and still carry homosexual community to coax scares me is that it may be article as if she is an observer discuss issues pertinent to our out a normal. productive exis­us into thinking that their prac­working. 
of tlw minority community community, we are considered tence. tice is not as morally unaccept­rather than a member, she "militant"? Don't other racial This argument, and the ad­able or unnatural as we may Chris J)elliCarpini perpetuates the same ethnic groups come together vertisement, have several flaws. believe. It is an insulting ad be­626 Grace 1/all stereotypes that she is so and discuss similar issues (i.e. To begin with, I am sure that I cause it flies in the face of the April 12. 1990 
desperatldy trying to eseape. Jews, Hispanics and Native am not the only person to won­
Americans)? der that persons such as Volunteers earn praise for their
First of all, by reading the ar­ticle, it seems that Lewis has a Eleanor Hoosevelt, Susan B. Christmas in April contributionsserious identity problem. In her In her final paragraph, Lewis Anthony and James Dean were opening paragraph, Lewis states that she has finally homosexual. We must question Dear Editor: captains, organizers, skilled la­states, "The only problem I an­learned that she is black and the authority, as well as the ob­On behalf of my fellow Co­bor and city officials as to the tkipated as a black student that she now realizes that im­jectivity, of The Gay Book of Chairs of Christmas in April, enthusiasm and goodwill of was being ealled "nigger" by portance of black pride. She at­Lists. What proof is there, I Mayor Joseph Kernan, Mr. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's people who wouldn't realize tributes this "sudden" revela­wonder, that Susan B. Anthony Christopher Murphy and Mr. students. All who participated that I wasn't really black. After tion to the Notre Dame educa­was homosexual? I fear that Lawrence Harding, I should like can be justifiably proud of this all, I was an int1~1ligent person tion she received outside the these people have been consid­to extend our gratitude to all massive collaborative effort on who had always integrated with classroom. The Notre Dame ered homosexual based on cir­the members of the Notre the part of the University and whites." community is but a minute cumstantial evidence. Could it Dame/ Saint Mary's community South Bend community to help 
Well, if Lewis is not "really" aspect of the total world com­be that Anthony is considered who gave of their time and tal­others. blaek, then what is she? And munity. One cannot possibly lesbian because she was a fem­ent on April 7th. 
what does it have to do with grasp the importance of black inist? Or Whitman because he Finally, a special thanks to 
being intelligent? Ignorance pride by observing one aspect was a poet? I feel that the ho­Through the outstanding Mr. Patrick Doran of the Office 
eomes in all colors. Lewis goes of a community in such a short mosexual community was all service provided by all of you, of Residence Life who coordi­
on to describe herself as "a period of time. too eager to find prominent many people now have homes nated the University's partici­
white person trapped in a black figures and engage in "outing" and property that otherwise pation in this important event. 
body"--trapped. meaning held When she steps out into the them, to use their own termi­could have easily been lost to Thanks again to everyone 
captive, inhibited. The only real world, Lewis will not have nology. them because of disrepair and who participated. person trapped within Lewis is to reminded of her race; she Yet it is irrelevant whether all a lack of funds. I am sure that 
her African-American self, will automatically know by the or none of these people were this collective effort prevented David T. Tyson, C.S.C. which is being held captive by opportunities that she receives. homosexual. Famous, success­the ranks of the homeless from Vice President for 
ignorance. Adrianne D. Holmes ful people throughout history increasing. Student Affairs Secondly, I was disturbed by Knott Hall have engaged in improper ac­I was the recipient of many Co-Chair. Christmas in April Lewis' use of the term "black April 10, 1990 tions, and their prestige in no excellent comments from house April 10, 1990 


DOONESBURY 
IXJ 'tOlJ 7HINI<. I 5HOi.W PUT ITWITH 7H& ~YaA­
ete AJ.JJM/NUM5 OR 7H& ~R4P&R'? ACTl.JAJJ.-Y, /'Tts /tKJT REA.­
1-YAI..UM!NUM, 
/ 15/T~ 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'The man who never alters his oprnion is like standing water, and breeds reptiles of the mind.' 
William Blake 
Viewpoint

page 10 Wednesday, April 18, 1990 
Affirmative action violates equal rights 
Congress is currently debat­ing a bill which, if passed into law, would overturn a number of the Supreme Court's recent affirmative actions decisions. The Court decisions in question sharply limit the affirmative ac­tion programs which can be in­stituted and the ways in which affirmative action/civil rights lawsuits can be brought. Congress should overturn af­firmative action, not the Court's decision. 
The first reason to end affir­mative action is that it hasn't worked. The primary goal of affirmative action was to im­prove the economic position of disadvantaged minorities, par­ticularly African Americans and Hispanics. Sadly, affirmative action's impact, if any, has been negative. 
According to Dr. Thomas Sowell, a Stanford University economist and leading African American thinker, the economic position of African Americans and Hispanics actually wors­ened during the heyday of af­firmative action, the early and mid-1970s. African Americans made 62 percent as much as the average American in 1969; by 1977 their income had dropped to 60 percent of the average. Puerto Rican Americans made 63 percent as much as the national average in 
Rick Acker In My Opinion 

1969; by 1977 their income had fallen to 50 percent of the av­erage. Mexican Americans made 76 percent as much as the national average in 1969; by 1977 their income had fallen to 73 percent of the national average. The economic decline of minorities during the 1970s has also been documented by Charles Murray in his book "Losing Ground" and by a host of others, including the pro-af­firmative action NAACP. 
Ironically, the economic posi­tion of minorities did not start to improve until Ronald Reagan took office and began slashing affirmative action programs. According to a January 1988 article in the Christian Science Monitor, the economic position of African Americans began to improve in about 1982 (the year Reagan's gutting off af­firmative action began to be felt.) According to the Monitor, between 1982 and 1987, African American unemploy­ment fell faster than· white unemployment, African Americans entered the middle class faster than whites, and African Americans wages rose faster than white wages. The NAACP also confirmed these findings, though it argued that the changes were in spite of, rather than because of, Reagan's policies. 
Neither the NAACP nor any other respectable scholar or group has, to the best of my knowledge, attempted to argue that the improvements in the economic status of minorities during the 1980s was caused by affirmative action. In light of the facts listed above, it is clear that affirmative action's im­pact, if any, has been negative. 
The second problem with af­firmative action is that it is fundamentally unjust. In their fight for racial justice, affirma­tive action advocates have jetti­soned one of the central princi­ples of American democracy. 
The moral problem with af­firmative action is best summed up by Sowell in his book "Civil Rights: Rhetoric or Reality?": "Many Americans who sup­ported the initial thrust of civil rights... later felt betrayed as the original concept of equal individual opportunity evolved toward the concept of equal group results." Affirmative ac­tion gives preferential treat­ment to minority applicants in awarding jobs, contracts and seats at colleges and universi­ties. This preferential treat­ment is given regardless of whether or not the individual applicant has even been dis­criminated against. The kev, 
say affirmative action advo­cates, is achieving equal results among races, not achieving equal opportunity among indi­viduals. 
Sowell is not the only one who thinks equal individual oppor­tunity is more important than equal group results. The 14th Amendment to our Constitution declares that "No State shall .. . deny any person within its jurisdiction the equal protec­tion of the laws." Since laws giving one class of persons preferential treatment obvi­ously denies equal protection to others, affirmative action nec­essarily violates at least the spirit of the 14th Amendment. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 is even more explicit: "No person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color. or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of. or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal assistance." By its very nature, affirmative action dis­criminates. It discriminates in favor of "disadvantaged groups" and against whites and other well-off groups. Thus, in­stitutions like Notre Dame, which receive money from the 
government appear to be pro­hibited by the Civil Rights Act from having affirmative action programs. 
The most striking feature of both the 14th Amendment and the Civil Rights Act is their em­phasis on individual freedom. Neither document mentions the word "group" or "race" and both focus on protecting the rights of the individual "person." Moreover, the equal­ity they protect is equality of opportunity and rights, not equality of results. The equality guaranteed by the 14th Amendment and the Civil Rights Act is not the equality delivered by affirmative action. 
In short, affirmative action should be dismantled and abol­ished as quickly as possible. Its impact on the economic status abolished as quickly as possi­ble. Its impact on the economic status of minorities, if any, has been negative. Moreover, affir­mative action places equal group results ahead of equal individual opportunity and, therefore, violates on the cen­tral principles of American democracy. 
Rick Acker is a second year law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Reform efforts neglect Africa's poor masses 
and lingual groups within their 
By S.P. Udayakumar 
countries. Although this is a major shortcoming, African governments or statespersons
Citing the Indian example, 
make little effort to tell the
David Cortright, while speaking 
people about their commonal­
on a related topic last month, 
ties and to transcend the
outrightly rejected the con­
boundaries of their hearts and
tention that Africa might re­
minds. Instead, some leaders
quire greater literacy and in­
play on these differences to
dustrial development for a non­
claim massive following in their
violent mass action to trans­
own tribe and territory, or to
form their societies. Although I 
·incite periodic programs
do not see any reason why 
among the people for mean po­
Africans cannot do that, l feel 
litical gains.
obliged to think about certain other factors. Almost all the countries of sub-Saharan Africa are wit­
r 
In the case of Eastern nessing armed insurgency from 
I Europe, the 40-year-old guerilla groups, dissident Western propaganda war movements, or revolutionary against communism, the West's groups. faith in democratic close monitoring of events in norms, dialogue and dissipa­the former countries, moral tion of differences is rare, but and material assistance to the there have been replete in­rebels and the reformers and stances of repression, military Western media attention all confrontation, death and de­helped the people behind the struction. Even the current Iron Curtain. When the oppor­wave of protests often meets tunity presented itself, they tear gas, bullets and army snatched it and staged a peace­sistance, not on debt-relief added to the instability of President Mathieu Kerekou was tanks. ful and magnificent revolution measures or industrial devel­Africa. forced to agree to the rewriting in their respective countries. opment. African leaders, on the of the Constitution which would Calling for an end to town­But think of Africa. Neither the other hand, talk so emotionally The politicians, bureaucrats, pave the way for his removal ship warfare between rival West, nor the East, nor the rest of pan-Africanism, but have military and other privileged through popular elections. black factions in Natal of the world has ever paused to done virtually nothing toward groups in Africa have little President Omar Bongo of province, Nelson Mandela ap­cast a look at those toiling bringing the peoples together genuine concern for the de­Gabon was obliged to dissolve pealed to the people at a mas­masses of Africa. Both the East or promoting trade among prived and the downtrodden. his ruling party and form a new sive rally in Durban: "Take and the West could get all they themselves. Turning a blind eye The scheming powerful groups reform-minded party. Students your guns, your knives and wanted by a meager "bribe" to to democratic precepts and divide the blind, deaf and dumb have been protesting against your pangas (machetes) and the ruling thug or clique, and popular demands, the African masses rather than organize Ivorv Coast's President Felix throw them into the sea." He no meaningful inroad was ever one-party Democrats, wooden­them. They indoctrinate the Ilouphouet-Boigny since mid­even extended "a hand of made to alleviate the sufferings headed ideologues and life-time people with alien ideologies February shouting, peace" to the anti-ANC Zulu of the poor masses. dictators spend money on mili­rather than ~each them with "Houphouet, we are fed up!" In Chief Mangosuthu Buthelnzi's tary and personal pleasure and life-giving ideas; rule them with East Africa, students have been Jnkatha militants claiming that A recent World Bank report, prestige. There are hardly any authority rather than lead them demonstrating against "it will be possible one day to "Sub-Saharan Africa--From effective steps in population with love. They, like parasites, President Daniel Arap Moi's share a platform with ... Chief Crisis to Sustainable Growth," control, education, health and live with them and suck their Kenya African National Union Buthelezi." blames Africa's ills on the poor management of social prob­blood and life. (KANU) party and government. Africa needs even more vocif­and inefficient government, lems. As though stipulated by a Mengistu, the mad Stalinist of erous non-violent votaries who overpopulation, bad economic regional arrangement, African The sweeping changes occur­Ethiopia, too, has liberalized can lead the masses in a proper planning, political repression rulers avowedly support the ring in the world have recently the economy and changed the way marked with truth, love and an appalling infrastruc­neighboring countries' rebels started shaking the African name and nature of his and human solidarity. Non-vio­ture. Witnessing a decade of and play politics, while the ig­governments, who have been Workers' Party of Ethiopia. lent struggle alone can bring falling per capita incomes, in­norant masses, who hardly impervious to political change. salvation to the suffering creasing hunger and ecological know anything of their rights Many young Africans are clam­Many of these African leaders masses of Africa, who have un­degradation, Africans are as and entitlements and privileges, oring for the political freedom, have been ruling for decades necessarily spilled blood for poor as they were thirty years scrape along with an amalgam prosperity and peace; and together under the guise of decades. of sufferings and a concentra­African generals, tribal chiefs one-party state. They pooh­
r 
ago. 

tion of sorrows. Falling export and decade-old rulers are pooh multi-party democracy by 
Private investors have largely earnings, economic misman­shuddering at the spontaneity alleging that party politics may S.P. Vdayakumar is a gradu­neglected Africa, and the West agement, corruption and lack and determination of the people lead to tribal warfare and an­ate student in the Institute for has relied on development as-of checks and balances have demanding change. Benin's archy given the scores of ethnic International Peace Studies. 

Accent
Wednesday, April 18, 1990 page 11 
NOTHE DAME (API -The Uni­versity of Notre Dame announeed today that ENOHMOUS WAI.HUSES HULE TilE EAHTII! HUN FOH YOUH LIVES! 
Please remain ealm. The above bulletin was merely a test. Enormous walruses do not. I repeat. do not, rule the earth. This was only a test. 
WASHINGTON (API-WAL­HUSES CANNOT DIE! ESCAPE Will I.E TIII·:IWS STILL TIME! 
Please ignorn that last bulletin. It app1~ars thorn is soml' sort of problem with the AI' win~. We an~ looking into it and will have it resolved shortly. 
NI:W YOHK (API-WALHUSES CONTHOL TilE MEDIA! TilEY AIH-: EVIl.! YOU MUST DESTHOY Tlli':M BEFOHE TIII~Y BECOMI·: TOO POWEHFUI.! 
Again, to repeal: walruses do not rule the narth, and even if they did. they can't type, so they ~~ouldn't very wnll have taken ovnr tlw Associated Press, now, eould they'? It's just a silly joke. Helax. Nothing can go wrong. 
If you'vn been n~ading this column so far. you're probably thinking orw of four things. Eitlwr: 
II "(;eez, why am I still reading this column'! Is tlw person sitting across from me really that boring'!" 
21 "That's amazing, that was exactly what I was thinking! Is this guy psychic or what'?" 
31 "How long beforl' tlw nie1~ men in the white coats put tlw 
lan Mitchell 
Lion Taming 
guy who wrote this stuff in the 
coat with the funny sleeves and 
cart him away to the big house 
with the soft walls'?" 
or 
4) "Good God, this guy has absolutely no idea what to write about." 
And I'm here to tell you that of course I have an idea for today's column. And that c•~ntral, guiding theme (around which three to four thousand charaeters of solid, hard-hitting comedy is based) is ... urn ... walruses. Yeah, walruses. Ahem ... 
A peace-loving animal. the walrus is a sea ereature which, by the way, bears mof'C than a passing resemblanee to my gov­ernment professor. No, ha ha, just kidding! Excuse me for a moment. I need to reflect briefly in prayer. (Dear Lord. please don't let my government professor be reading this. Or, if he is. pleaso let him have a tPrrifie sense of humor and give me an "A" on my paper because he so enjoyed my column. Amen.) 
Speaking of professors, if I were a professor, I think. just om~~~. I'd make my dass turn in a 20 page paper on some obscure topie, and then I'd have some fun marking them. I'd take the papers from the dass and write nothing on them, not even grades. Then, on the front page in r1~d Magic Marker, I would writl\ in huge letters: "NO." Then I would hand the papers back. Urn... excuse me again. (Dear Lord, if my govornment professor is mading this, please don't let him get any ideas from the preceding paragraph. Amen.) 
All right, so maybe this walrus thing wasn't such a good idea after all. Look, I'm under a lot of stress -I had a lot of work to do over Easter, so I took it with me, thinking I'd get it done on the plane. I always do this. It never works. So now here I am, writing this thing for "Lion Taming" and, for the life of me, all I ean think of are walruses. (I'm not in therapy at the present time, but I'm sure this must mean something.} 
Did you ever have one of those tunes... Hey! You there, sucking down that Cap'n Crunch like a human Dustbuster, I'm talking to you! You ever have a song going through your head, maybe just one line, over and over again? And the only way to get rid of it was to aetually sing it out loud'! Well, I was alittle afraid the walrus problem wouldn't go away, and it'd pop up suddenly in the middle of my government paper: "The Ameriean political system, balanced among th1~ executive ENOHMOUS WALHUSES... " You get the idea: it's not exactly the kind of impression I want to give someone who eontrols the fate of my GPA. So I had to write about walruses somewhPre. I ley, nobody forced you to read this, did they? Like I'm so sure nothing like this has never happened to you! Geez, get off my case! 

JOHN WALTON accent writer 

T 
he SUI~CI~SS of the C1_1wboy .Jun.ki~;~· cover of l.ou Heed s Sweet .Jane," and tlw grnat­nnss of The Trinity Session, tlw .Junkins' first album, was dw~ to tlwir stark. mysterious, com­pelling approach. The music was sparse. the vocals ethewal and n•moved. I.Pad singer Margo Timmins, along with her brotlwrs Miduwl (guitar) and l'l'lPr (drums), and bassist Alan Anton, crnatPd songs of lonely dPsolation as bleak as anything producml in tlw Eighties. It is a striking record that is centPred around several exreiiPnl cover tunes tlw likes of tlw VPivet. Underground. Patsy Clirw and Ilank Williams. 
The Caution llorses, their newest album, has only two eovnrs: the hulk of tim writing is by Michael Timmins. The ad­dition of four nnw members was a good idea, especially with tlw indusion of wonderful mandolin and harmoniea player .lefT Bird. This album is a song­cycle focusing on the emptiness and nihilism of the everyday life of a heartbroken person. This tlmmn is explon~d throughout the album, from the opener, "Sun Comes Up, It's Tuesday Morning," a catalog of the lonely, humdrum events in the life of a woman who has reeently been abandoned by her lover, to the apoealyptie (although understated) finale, "You Will Be Loved Again." 
The tendency to be trendy and to over-stress can be ?' annoying at times, howevPr. nspeeially during the first half of the album. A ref'ernnce to legendary rnedrnan John Coltrane in the opening number and an inap­propriate eover of Neil Young's "Powderfinger" mar an otherwise exeellent record. Was (Not Was). in "Out Come the Freaks" and U2, in the live version of "Bullet the Blue Sky" have already gone the bebop name-dropping route by mentioning Coltrane in songs that have little to do with him-Cowboy Junkies would do well to stick with what they know. 
Timmins' Iyries also tend to be heavy-handed, a fault shared by such contemporaries as Miehelle Shocked, Indigo Girls and Traey Chapman. These singers always tend to exaggerate their lyrics, as if the listener isn't going to understand them if they are more subtle. Lyrics such as "It's the kind of night that's so eold, when you spit I it freezes before it hits the ground" scar this album with their ugly bluntness. 
When the approach is ele­gant, graceful and suggestive, 
the Junkies hit ·'\ the hardest. The dissolution of love is tossed about 
:,.._ among the songs bril­liantly and mysteriously: in "Mariner's Song," Margo has left her lover and searches for him everywhere, longing for a resurrection of her love, while in "Hock and Bird," she la­ments, "I offered you my endless skies I you countered with hoods and 

chains," and seeks an exorcism of her torturing love, "this song I sing will be the last I to be inspired by your memory." 
The songs alternate between a chronic-depressive aecep­tance of doomed suffering (in "Thirty Summers" and "You Will Be Loved Again,") and un­realistic visions of transcen­dence ("Witches" and "Escape Is So Simple.") The terrible turmoil at the core of these slow ponderings is the choice of whether to try and move on (she passes up a chance for a new love in "Where Are You Tonight,") or to surrend1~r to 
her damnation: She drinks 
herself senseless in "Escape Is 
So Simple" and in "Witdws" she has an hallucinatory expe­
rienee of joining a clan of sor­
eeresses who "dance in tlw 
moonbeams, ride the night 
wind I make love to the dark­
ness and laugh at man's sins." 
Mary Margaret O'Hara's "You Will Be Loved Again" is the album's final song, and it shows the Junkies in finn form. ()'I lara's original version is jumbled and eonfusPd, a fasci­nating fusion of avant-garde jazz and folk-rock. The Cowboy Junkies have focused O'Hara's chaotic vision into a set chord progression-a poignant, minor key which sets ofT Margo Timmins' fractured, tiny voice perfectly. 
The entire album is summa­rized in this song: the uncer­tainty as to whether love is sal­vation or damnation, the possi­bility of final happiness or utter misery, and the paradoxical beauty within the horror of lost love serve as vehicles for the in­trospective music and distinc­tive vocal stylings of the Cow­boy Junkies, a band with a courage and ability far sur­passing that of their fellows in the neo-folk revival. 
------~-~----------------------­
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, April 18, 1990 
Rose's future might hinge on IRS report, public reaction 
DAYTON, Ohio (AP) -Pete vened in Cincinnati to look into more stuff to have to explain approached by his attorneys. another person's legal rights?" Rose's future hinges on the whether Rose declared all of his and apologize for." She said she spends about half Pinzka said she helped Rose outcome of an Internal Revenue income from card shows and Rose was banned from base­of her time working for Rose. last October decide how to Service investigation and the memorabilia sales and all of his ball last August after admitting Pinzka said she is "troubled" publicly divulge that he had public's reaction to it, the pub­gambling winnings on his that he routinely gambled by recent news coverage of the been secretly seeing a psychia­licist for the former Cincinnati taxes. through bookmakers. However, IRS probe, adding that some trist for the gambling disorder. Reds manager said Tuesday. Pinzka said Rose has been he has steadfastly denied bet­publications have printed sto­"He would never meet in the "Everything is on hold while limiting interviews and trying ting on baseball or on Reds' ries based on leaks from the same place twice," she said. "It we wait for the outcome of the to keep a low profile, in part games. Since accepting his ban, grand jury investigation. was just ridiculous, somethingIRS investigation," said because of the IRS probe. Rose has been treated by a psy­"Most of these leaks have out of 'Mission Impossible.' So Barbara Pinzka. "I don't know "We know the IRS news is chiatrist for a gambling disor­been accepted as fact," she we wanted to bring that to the how that's going to turn out." going to hit, and it's probably der. said. "Tell me, when was it de­forefront as soon as possiblePinzka made her remarks in not going to be positive," Pinzka, who operates her own cided that Pete Rose was not so we could get rid of this 
response to questions at a Prinzka said. "I don't think the public relations firm in entitled to the same confidential ridiculous overlay of secrecy." meeting of the Dayton-Miami IRS is going to say, 'Pete, here's Cincinnati and has specialized legal proceedings guaranteed to Pinzka had few kind words Valley chapter of the Public a gold medal.' We're basically in litigation-related issues, said every other American citizen? for sports reporters, saying the Relations Society of America. waiting for the other shoe to she agreed to work for Rose When did the pressure to get a traditional principles of jour­
Last May, a grand jury con-drop so that we don't have last September after she was story take precedence over nalism don't seem to be in place. 
Classifieds 
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED: To share furnished 2 bdrm. apt. for the summer. Low rent. pool etc. call M.J. 277-7496 
TOWNHOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM APTS. AVALIABLE LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems, basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new construction, good rleighborhood,dishwasher CALL 232 • 1251 
FOR SALE 

20GAL AQUARIUM 
$75 #3270 DAVE 
"Realistic" AM/FM stereo receiver. 60 watts per channel. Great condition but MUST SELL! $175 or b.o. Call 271-5686. 
1979 MGB convertible, British 
Racing Green, AM/FM radio, 
excellent condition, 54.000 miles, 
$4,300. Call 277-6551. 
LAW/MED/GRAD SCHOOL IN ST. LOUIS? Own for What it Costs to Rent. Condo in Historic Bldg For Sale. 10 mins. to Wash. U & SLU Mad Ctrs & Main Campuses. Spacious Rehab w/Appliances & More. Call 271-8242. 
1978 VW HATCHBACK RABBIT. EXCELLENT CONDITION. AC. 61,000 MILES. 272-1134. 
81 PONTIAC GRAND LeMANS 
fully loaded, good condition 
$1000/obo, Doug 272-7449 
HEY!! ONE-WAY FLIGHT TO 
SEATILE !! -CHEAP!! leaves 
May 12'th. CALL JOE x 3489! 
PHONE RINGERSI!!...PLAYS THE NOTRE DAME "FIGHT SONG" DURING INCOMING CALLS AND STOPS WHEN YOU ANSWER. GREAT GIFTS FOR ONLY $15. AVAILABLE AT THE JACC PRO SHOP 
'80 Dodge Aspen 4 dr, AC, new tires,good 
condition. $750. 283-4348. 
TICKETS 

I NEED GRAD TKTS $$DAVE P. 3270 
need grad tix! will pay big$ call 277-8692 
Hey! B I L L Y J 0 E Lfans: Would you like two tickets to his APRIL 24 CONCERT IN THE 
ROSEMONT HORIZON? 
If so, call Phil at #1051 or Molly at #2669 or #2648 for more ticket information BEST OFFER/ACT FAST 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame oftice. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 

NOTICES 
EXPERT TYPING 
$3/PG 
291-3829 
TYPING term 
papers/reports/letter/resumes. 
Pick up & delivery available. 277­
5134 Cathy. 
WORD PROCESSING 
272-1837 
$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! PANDORA'S BOOKS Corner of NO ave and Howard 233-2342 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Black Students Only! Earn $5 for 
40 minutes of your time, by filling 
out some simple questionnaires 
for a research study on Ethnic 
Identity! Come to room 128 
Haggar Hall, 7 pm Wednesday 
April18! 
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US! 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. On S.R. 23, just past Ironwood. 
277-6245 
PRO-LIFE DAY 
APRIL 19, 1990 
Check Thursday's Ad for details!!! 
t LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: At the Senior Formal, my 
date lost his Notre Dame 
monogram ring. If you found a 
men's ring anywhere, please call 
Kristen at #2670. The ring is very 
valuable. 
FOUND-a set of keys by Stepan 
Courts on Thursday 
4/5. Keys are held together 
by a piece of string. Call 
Pat at x1560 
Lost: silver framed glasses in black case, at Cartier field or vicinity. Reward. Call Mike at x2082. 
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. 
ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. 
REWARD. SEAN 2073 
LOST: Black and gold Seiko 
dress watch on the second 
floor of the library. Please 
call Pat x2479 or give to 
library security at the front 
desk. 
I lost my Canon CAMERA at the 
Senior Formal dance. Please call 
Kay at 277-8813 if you found one. 
SENIOR FORMAL: Are those 
pictures you developed not yours? Maybe you or your date picked up the wrong camera by accident on SAT night. Please call #1765. THANKS 
LOST: Blue NO wallet w/my entire life in it-Sat. night in EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B-340. 
HEY NOW04/29/72LIVEDEADIN WEST GERMANY-WHOHAS THIS Bl RTHDA YSHOWPLEASECALL TWICE AT X3270-WILL TRADE 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262. 
ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corv.ettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. $5,000+/month! Over 8,000 openings. Free transportation! Room & Board! No experience necessary. MALE or FEMALE. Send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box 84008, Seattle, WA 98124­Satisfaction Guaranteed. 
FOR RENT 
Furn. 2 & 4 bedrm. houses. Safe. Washer/dryer. Sand V-ball court. Bruce: 288-5653/234­3831. 
STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? 
SUBLET A TURTLE CREEK APARTMENT!! BEAUTIFUL, PICTURESQUE, AND MORE ... 
CALL KELLY AT 4985 OR JULIE AT 287-9378 NOW!! 
NEW G.A. RENTAL -6 BR, LORY, MICRO, CLEAN & FURNISHED, 1-1/2 BATHS. 233-9947 
A safe 3-4 bedroom house located across the street from campas. Washer/Dryer, garage and 2 full baths. ph. 234-7650. 
NE/IR N.D. Clean and comfortable turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., efticiency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep., references. 
616-483-9572. 
GRADUATION HOUSING FOR 4­5 PEOPLE. 708-355-4848. 
3 BEDROOM-GARAGE 
3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS 
$525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT 
232-3616. 
4 OR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE 
AVAILABLE 1990-91 SCHOOL 
YEAR. FURNISHED, W/0. CLOSE 
TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE 
RENT. 277-0959. 
SUBLEASING FURNISHED 
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE 
FOR SUMMER. CALL TOM 273­
0302. 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD SAFE AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF NO 2773097 
CONDO, 2 BEDROOM, 2 BATH, 
VERY CLEAN, POOL, PATIO, 
LARGE CLOSETS. 232-3972. 
2 HOUSES, REDUCED RENT. WASHERS & DRYERS, BURGLAR ALARMS, FULLY FURNISHED, WILL RENT TO GROUP OR 

Eccentric millionaire seeking new heir wants GRAD TIX. Harry x2263. 
WANTED-GRADUATION TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800­888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT AFTER 5 616-342-0729. 
I PERSONALS I 
CARING, CHILDLESS COUPLE DESPERATELY WISHES TO SHARE OUR LIFE, HOME AND MUCH LOVE WITH YOUR WHITE NEWBORN. LET US HELP EACH OTHER REALIZE OUR DREAMS. EXPENSES PAID. PLEASE CALL KATHY AND LARRY COLLECT AT (201) 635-1307. 
START YOUR NEW CAREER 
WITH A NEW CAR! 
We have special financing for 
employed graduates. 
Call: Gary Erb 
At: Gates Toyota 
237-4999 
PHISH IS COMING!! WED. APRIL 25 ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR CLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W., KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
Do you like to read ? Bring your books to CLUB 23 ! 
'MO 
HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUMMER? Jet there from Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for no more than $229, or from the East Coast for no more than $160 with AIRHITCH (R) (as reported in NY Times. Let's Go I & Consumer Reports.) For info: AIRHITCH (R) 212-864-2000. 
ANTOSTAL SIGN-UPS 
GOLFTOURNEY A AIRBAND N MATIRESS RACE T TIRE ROLLING 0 IMPERSONATIONS S CHARIOTS T PILLOW FIGHTS A 
Buy any 12" Italian sub with one litre soft drink 
and 
•
recetve 
$1.00oFF 

TUGOFWAR L 
EARTH DAY EARTH DAY FRIDAY, APRIL 20 6-8 PM 
FREE 

EARTH DAY SUB OFFICE 
DELIVERY! 

BLUE NO AERO 1 SENIORS 
whoru? Can you aftord to lose $1 ,000? Take advantage of your student ••••• CLASS OF 1991 ••••• discount on an IBM PS/2 BEFORE you graduate and spring into 
coupon expires

Today! Buy your Junior Class savings. Scrapbook between 2-7 pm in JUST DOlT! 4-20-90 Montgomery Theatre for $8. The Call an IBM student rep today! 
TOP 10 REASONS TO JOIN THE Theatre is located on the first floor 237-3680, -3790, -3794 NORTH QUAD COUNCIL of LaFortune by the stairs leading 10. It's easy. 

to the lower level. Don't forget to 9. Free food. 
also pick up your JPW slide show ATIENTION!II 
8. You get to bitch a lot.

pictures at this time. 
7. Looks cool on your resume.

ESTABLISHED BAND IS 6. Get dates. 
LOOKING FOR A: 
5. It's better than working for Rob and Fred.

LEAD GUITARIST 
4. Be the envy of all your friends. 
3. We know where you live.

for next year. Must have own 
2.1t'sfree

Class of 1991. Get involved during equipment. CALL JOHN x1082 your Senior Year at NO. We need and the #1 reason...
people interested in making the 00 WHEN YOU NEED COPIES 00 1. ITS NOT SUB. 
most of senior year for the Senior THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE 
Class Board. Applications are due IS OPEN LATE & WEEKENDS Sign up for the 
on Friday, April 20 at the Junior NORTH QUAD COUNCIL 
Class Office. Applications may be ADOPTION. We are a childless, in the Student Government 
picked up at the Secretary's Oftice educated, secure, happily married, oftice, 2nd floor, La Frotune.
on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune. white Christian couple. Give your Or call Mike Gaffney at 
baby a fantastic future. Let us 
239-7668

adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­
and leave your name and phone 
974-8227. 
number.

DENNIS WOLFE, Thank you so very much for The Copy Shop in LaFortune Is 
Senior Month Mystery Trip 

being nice to me for FIVE ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS Even the time's a mystery!
straight days. I'm sure that for the 90-91 school year it was not easy. I hope you workstudy is NOT required 
The bus will leave from Holy Cross field at 1 p.m. after Fisher Regatta 

had a nice break anyway. and early enough to get you back 
your lit-tle girlfriend BROWN LEATHER JACKET: to enjoy Hogstock! Today's clue is: 
I lost my "Mirage" jacket on 
One of these would have made April20is Saturday night at NO Ave and Noah's task a lot easier. 

MIRTH DAY Corby (SCANTS'). If you have it, please call me-lt's of great Katie, Katie, B.F.l.(Big Fat Lady)-­sentimental value. Reward!! Call LAURA PETER STEPH LISA 
Sauerkraut, Heidelberg, Helmut Steve@3591 KITIMA JAMES B MIKE JS JAYME 
Kohl...ok, so I'm not the best writer, FRAN ERIC D MIKES DAVE G 
but I just wanted to say... Fiesta en casa de Hector 5/20 ANDY G, et al: HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY!!! (in Ia ukima del afio Congratulations on graduating! I
German)--Fiash wish you all the happiness and 
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US Ill 
success life has to ofter. Thanks hiag Mail Boxes Etc. 

for being GREAT friends and 

We're ON CAMPUS 5/51o 5/12, 
SUPER correspondents! See you 

In La Fortune (Dooley Room) I 
soon.

UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 
Love You -Mary Berger 277-6245 

Carroll. Please return-no ?'s Attention please.
INDIVIDUALS. CONTACT CHUCK The One and Only 
asked. X4961 I need two grad tix bad NEED RIDE : to IU for
GLORE 232-1776. Seniors! Seniors! Seniors! 
honest, I am willing to pay big UTILE 500 4120-4122
Charity Ball Don't miss your chance! Buy your 
A green, 3-speed, Schwinn bucks for them. Call Jenny X4998
FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, tickets to this Sunday's Cubs 
bike. It was left at Stepan Please call Greg at 3114 
AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NO. .................. THE GROOVE Game and the May 5 trip to Great 
b-ball courts last week. If found, hi ag -I'll see you at the Charity 
CAMPUS. 272-0615. America today from 3-5 in the N.D.please call Tim x1828. NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ Fri.April20 Carnival 
Senior Class Office or at LeMansMonetary reward offered. CALL #2059-JOHN
Sublet a townhouse for summer! 2 Lobby at SMC. 

l-ID Fully

bedrm, 1 1/2 bath, kitchen, living; Tickets at LaFortune 
partially furnished. Call Amy or I HAVE TWO GRADUATION 
Autographed Football

( WANTED ' Sharon, SOON! X1302 TICKETS TO SELL. CALL BRUCE Info. Desk or 1 need a date to the Charity 
P~ ,...._._. Budrlll.y

AT X1004 Carnival. I have Tom Selleck hair 
..,...,, lladl.a
NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE Summer Sublet-Turtle Creek 283-BAND and a sculptured chest. Call Mark any weekend-ext 1938 1 Bdrm Fully Furnished Apt. Need 2 GRADuation tixl Will pay 

................,..
x2266. 

Call Katie at 277-3176 $$.Call Tom-1694. 
caDDI-1011
.....,......... 

Wednesday, April 18, 1990 
Scoreboard 

Qage 13 ... 
Past Boston 
SPORTS CALENDAR Women Champions NBA STANDINGS 
Wednesday, April 18 Atlantic Division w L Pel CJI Streak Baseball vs. NORTHWESTERN, Coveleskl EASTERN CONFERENCE 
COURSE RECORD 

z·Philadelphia 51 28 .646 Won2 Stadium, 7 p.m. 
J.Benott

z-Boston 49 30 .620 2 Lost! 
(Sarnwt.on}, u.s.

Thursday, April 19 Wash•nglon 31 48 .392 20 Won2 Baseball vs. BUTLER (2). 1 p.m. 
z·New York 45 34 .570 6 Wont 
2:22:43 (111113} 

Miam1 17 62 .215 34 Lost a New Jersey 17 62 .215 34 Lost4 
1990 R. Mota, Portugal 2:25:24 C<lntral Dtvlalon Outdoor Track at Kansas Relay Friday, Aprll20 
1989 I. Kristiansen, Norway 2:24:33 x·Detroit 57 22 .722 Won 1 Men's Golf at Akron Invitational 
1988 R. Mota, Portugal 2:24:30 z-Chicago 54 25 .684 3 Won 1 1987 R. Mota, Portugal 2:25:21
z·MIIwaukee 42 38 .525 15 112 Lost! Saturday, Aprll21 z-lndiana 41 38 .519 16 Won2 Baseball at Dayton (2), 12 p.m. 
1986 I. Kristiansen, Norway 2:24:55 Cleveland 39 40 .494 18 Won3 Outdoor Track at Kansas Relay 
1985 L.Weidenbach, U.S. 2:34:06 Atlanta 39 41 .488 18 112 Won 1 Men's Golf at Akron Invitational 1984 L. Moiler, N. Zealand 2:29:28 
Orlando 17 62 .215 40 Lost 13 Lacrosse at Ohio Wesleyan, 2 p.m. 
1983 J. Benoit, U.S. 2:22:43 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Softball at MCC Tournament, Dayton. Ohio 1982 C.Teske, W.Germany 2:29:33
Midwest Dtvlalon w L Pel CJI Streak Z·Uiah 54 25 .684 Lost 1 Sunday, April 22 
1981 A. Roe, N. Zealand 2:26:46 z-San Anton1o 53 26 .671 1 Won4 Baseball at Dayton (2), 12 p.m. 
1980 J. Gareau, Canada 2:34:28 z·Dallas 44 35 .557 10 Won 1 Men's golf at Akron Invitational 1979 J. Benoit, U.S. 2:35:15 
Denver 41 38 .519 13 Won2 Men's tennis vs. OHIO STATE. 1 p.m. 
1978 G. Barron, U.S. 2:44:52Houston 40 39 .506 14 Won 1 Softball at MCC Tournament, Dayton. Ohio Minnesota 22 57 .278 32 Lost2 
1977 M. Gorman. U.S. 2:48.44 Charlotte 18 61 .228 36 Lost4 Pacific Division 

RESULTS MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
x·LA Lakers 61 18 .772 Won3 z·Porttand 56 23 .709 5 Wont z·Phoemx 53 26 .671 8 Won 1 Baseball AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Seattle 39 40 494 22 Lost 1 Notre Dame 14, Purdue 2 Golden State 35 44 .443 26 Lost 5 Notre Dame 6, Xav1er 4 Baltimore 000 002 000-2 6 0 LA Clippers 30 49 .380 31 Lost2 Xavier 3, Notre Dame 2 Toronto 001 I 20 04x-8 11 1 Sacramento 23 57 .288 38 112 Lost 4 Notre Dame 4, Xavier 2 Ballard, Holton (6) and Tettleton: Flanagan. Acker (6). Wells (7), D.Ward (9) and Borders. Myers (7). w­
x·chnched conlerence Iiiia Notre Dame 2, Xav1er 0 Fianagan, 2-0. L-Ballard, 0-2. HAs-Toronto, Borders (2), Gruber (2), Felix (2). z-clinched playoff berth 
Tueaday'e Gamet~ Wednesday's Games Men's Tennis New York 010 003 000-4 e o Washington 129, Orlando 127 Orlando at Boston. 7:30p.m. Notre Dame 6, University of Michigan 0 Detroit 000 000 100-1 6 1 Atlanta I 18. New Jersey 95 Cleveland at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Leary, J.Robinson (8), Righetti (9) and Cerone; Tanana, Nunez (7) and Nokes. W-Leary, 1·0. L­Denver 99. Minnesota 89 Indiana at Philadelphia. 7:30 p.m. Women's Tennis Tanana. 0-1. Sv-Righetti (3). HR-Detroit. G.Ward (2). Los Angeles Lakers 102, Seattle 101 Charlotte at Miami. 7:30p.m. University. of Michigan 6. Notre Dame 0 Chicago II 1, Boston 105 Utah at San Antomo. 8:30 p.m. Milwaukee 010 100 000-2 3 o Cleveland 96, Milwaukee 88 Portland at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m. Softball Texas 010 004 10x-8 9 o Houston 112, Sacramento 97 Los Angeles Clippers at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. De aul 6, Notre Dame 1 Knudson, Fossas (6), Crim (6), Mirabella (7) and Surholf; K.Brown, Jeffcoat (7) and Petralli, Stanley (9). Dallas 97. Utah 96 De aul 3, Notre Dame 2 W-K.Brown, 2-0. L-Fossas. 0-2. Sv--Jelfcoat (2). HAs-Texas, Sierra (2), lncaviglia (2). 
Notre Dame vs. Detroit. snow 
Notre Dame 4, Loyola 0 Cleveland 110 000 000-2 9MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL otre Dame 15, Loyola 1 Kansas City 000 004 OOx-4 6 0 Black, Olin (6), Wickander (6), Guante (7) and Alomar: Dotson. Farr (6), Montgomery (7), M.Davis.(9) and 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE Boone. W-Farr. 1-0. L--Oiin. 0·1. Sv-M.Davis (3).
Eaat Division Eas1 Division w L Pel CJI w L Pel CJI New York 4 1 .800 TRANSACTIONS Boston 001 000 000-1
Chicago 5 3 625 Toronto 6 3 .667 
Chicago 000 001 001-2 8 1I:IASEBALL
Montreal 5 3 .625 Boston 4 4 .500 1 112 
National League Dopson, Murphy (6). Reardon (8). L.Smith (9) and Pena; King, Patterson (5). Long (5), Radinsky (7). 
Pittsburgh 4 4 .500 1 Detroit 3 5 .375 2 112 HOUSTON ASTROS--Piaced Steve Lombardozzi, B.Jones (9) and F1sk. W-B.Jones. 2-0. L-l.Smith, 0·1. HR-Chicago. Kittle (1).
St. Louis 4 4 500 1 Cleveland 2 4 .333 2 112 infielder, on the 15-day disabled list retroactive toNew York 3 5 .375 2 Milwaukee 2 4 .333 2112 April 15. Purchased the contract of CaseyPhiladelpllia 3 5 375 2 Baltimore 2 5 .286 3 Candaele, infielder, from Tucson of the Pacific Coast League.
West Division w L Pel CJI West Division w l Pel CJI NATIONAL LEAGUE 
BASKETBALL
Cincinnati 7 0 1.000 Chicago 5 1 .833 
National Basketball Association 
San D1ego 5 3 625 2 112 Oakland 5 1 .833 St. Louis 010 000 010-2 5 3
DALLAS MAVERICKS-Activated Brad Davis,
Los Angeles 4 4 .500 3 112 Calilornia 5 2 .714 112 Pittsburgh 106 000 OOx-7 6 0
guard. from the injured list. Waived Mark Wade,
San Franc1sco 3 4 429 4 Texas 4 4 .500 2 Mathews. Carpenter (3), Hill (8) and Zeile: Heaton, Power (8) and Slaugh!. W-Heaton, 2·0. L­
guard.
Houston 2 5 286 5 Kansas City 3 4 .429 2 112 Mathews. 0-2.
FOOTBALL
Atlanta 6 143 6 Sea111e 2 5 .286 3 112 National Football League 
Minnesota 2 6 .250 4 Philadelphia 000 001 000-1
GREEN BAY PACKERS-Signed Scot! Kirby,
Tuesday's Gamet1 Montreal 010 000 10x-2 7 o
offensive tackle: Damon Stell. running back; and
Tuesday's Games Combs. Akertelds (6). McElroy (6), Frohwirth (7), Carman (7), Parrett (7) and Lake; Gardner. Hall (6), Frey
Late Game Not Included Stacey Mobley, wide receiver. 
(8) and Santovenia, Fitzgerald (7). W-Hall. 1·1. L-Frohw1rth, 0·1. Sv-Frey (3). Clncmna11 2. San D1ego I 
Late Games Not Included HOUSTON OILERS-Signed Bo Orlando, 
New York 4, Detroit 1 defensive back, to a two-year contract. Announced
Montreal 2, Philadelphia 1 
Chicago 001 040 ooo 01 o 2-8 9 1 Chicago 8. New York 6, 13 inmngs 
Toronto 8. Baltimore 2 they will not renew the contract of Kenny Johnson, NewYork 001 130 000 010 0-8 10 5safety.
Chicago 2. Boston 1 MIAMI DOLPHINS-Signed John Offerdahl,
Pmsburgh 7. St. LoUJs 2 (13 Innings)
Kansas City 4. Cleveland 2 Houston 5, Atlanta 3 
Nunez. Lancaster (5), Mi.Wilhams (9). Assenmacher (11). Wilkins (13) and Wrona. Girardi (9): Fernandez. Los Angeles at San Francisco. (n) 
Texas 6, Milwaukee 2 linebacker, to a lour-year contract. 
Whitehurst (7). Machado (9). Franco (11), Innis (12) and Lyons. Mercado (12). W-Assenmacher. 1-0. L­canadian Football League Minnesota at Seante, (n) lnnis. 0·1. Sv-Wi!kins (1). HRs-Chicago, McClendon (I): New York. Carreon (2). H.Johnson (3),Oakland at California, (n) BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Signed John Marshall ( 1 ) . 

Sullivan. linebacker: Pat Sperduto. defensive end 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Results For Tuesday's Games Stepan 5 Lyons11 Big Yellc<v Jellybeans over Ultimate Ninjas by Bookstore9 Goldfinger & The 4 Pinkies over Diggerbobs by 5 Guys Who Drive The O.J. Shoemaker Van 16 4:00 · Expresso Pizza vs. Moose's Men 
Stepan 1 
19 over Nachoes by 11 4:45 ·Lethal Weapon Ill vs. We Have the Tools 3rd Degree Burns over Rich Hollz Gels Ch1cks We Don'! Need No Stinkin" Keith Tower over Stepan 1 Games lor Wednesday, Aprll18 & Not the Talent by6 
Moot Points by 16 4:00 -The Judean People's Front vs. Fran 5:30 -The Return 01 Skip Holtz, The War 5:30-Chuck K's Boyz That Work Overtime at the Swae! Scotty P & The Dwarfs over UNL V 
Hutch Bucks over Beecher. Tool And Dye by 10 McCann's Fan Club & 3 Other Wrestlers Memorial & 3 Other Useless Blocks Lumberyard vs. Hawaii 5-0 (Untamad No!onously Lude Vigilantes) 4:45. Cheeseballs vs. We Ain't Soft 6:15-Forfeit vs. The Innkeepers 6:15-Copy Center Copycats vs. The Kids From 5 Guys From Zahm Who Can't Win over The Stepan 6 5:30 · Irish Hoops Blow Another One vs. Salt, Down the Hall 
Sloths by 8 Eddie & The Cruisers over Lobule & Friends by Salt. Salt. Shaker Stepan 4 17 6:15-We've Gatta See A Man About A Dog vs. 4:00-Team #357 vs. Royal Ugly Dudes Bookslore 10 
Stepan 2 
Hodge Masters over Anita Better Basketball Our's Go To 11 4:45 Mo & The Loves laves vs. Joe & Who Are 4:00 · Silent Assasins vs. 4 Monkeys & a Boy The Teeth over Newton Was Wrong by 15 Team by 12 Your Friends Named Spanky 
Shay's Rebellion: Just Do It over The Churnin' Just Chlllln' over The Beaver Cleavers by 7 Stepan 2 5:30 -Painfully Huge vs. Macho Squad 4:45 -5 Guys Who Follow Digger To Akron vs. Urns o! Burnin' Funk by 11 4:00-Last Year's Champ vs. Legion 01 Doom 6:15-Killway vs. Remember It's Stepan Fightin' Cajun Codwedges Freedom Rock II: Turn It Up over Plop Plop Fizz 4:45 · Secretary's Dream vs. Digger's Offense, 5:30 · Luc's Revenge vs. Sarin Hall Foodsales 
FIZZ by 8 Bookslon!9 Pete's Logic, & 3 Other Things That Don't Work Stepan 5 6:15-The Deviant Hatfields vs. 4 Monogamous 
Veni, Vini, Vinci (We Came, We Saw, We Lost) 5:30 -Pete Gillen Fan Club vs. Barry Schulok 4:00 -Malicious Prostitution vs. Metamucil. A & Andrew Campbell Stepan 3 over 2 All Beef Patties. Special Sauce, Lettuce Loves Digger Pencil & 3 Other Cures We Can Do Some Good Things over Shoot To and Cheese by 1 5 6:15 -The Good, The Bad. The Laundry vs. 4:45 -Nothing Fancy vs. Scurvy Dogs-Balls. Thnll by 8 Sweet Lou & The Teabags over The Return of Slaty Cleavage Scrabitts Lyons 11 
J Crew Cotton Knit Reversible Weave Mango Bjorn Nittmo by 3 
5:30 . Bobby Q & The Toastmasters vs. Mary, 4:00-H.W.A. vs. The Village People E'arn Jacket over A Boa. A Python. Digger & 2 The Flat Girls over Mouthlulls by 20 Stepan 3 Cathy, Wendy & 2 Other Dodger Scams 4:45 · Raw Talent vs. 01ers 
Other Choke Artists by f9 Mom Always Said Don'! Play Ball in the House 4:00 -Solsonic Force vs. Air Swoop 6:15 · De La Sole vs. Four Men & A Mole li:30. Members of the Board vs. Condors Tha Cotton Club over 4 Greyhounds & A Poodle over Palmer's Boys by 2 
4:45-The 6th Man From Skid vs. Team #36 6:15 . Big Al's & Bibbles vs. Kelly's Heroes 
Stepan 6 Round over Acta Sanctorum by 7 
·lby 10 5 Vermin Who Have Y~t To See the Second 
4:00-The Dogs vs. Open Loop Shooters !stepan 4 Bookslore 10 Earwax over Anti-Slug Team by 9 
4:45-The PTP's vs. 5 Under 5 Ft 5 Lyons 12 5:30-Team #579 vs. Big Dawgs 4:00 · Paradise Jam vs. The enemy & 4 Guys
Tha Blues Brothers ovar Harem Globe Trotters Lenny's Swollen Utters over 5 Guys Who by 13 Weren't Offered Money From Illinois by 4 Lyons 12 6:15-One Guy Who Can Spell...vs. Tasmanian Who Want to Die 
4:45 · 5 Guys, Lou Holtz Doesn't Know vs. The
It Doesn't Count Unless You Gat the J over Stick II, You Muthasl over One Dribbler. One The Traveling Cowboy & His 4 Bohunks over Devils Boyz
Stepan 7 Don't Pass to Fruball: He'll Shoot over Team South Bend-Mishawaka-Alive With Pride over Irish Wiskey Runners over Everybody Wang 5:30 5:30 ·The Subdudes vs. Steve Eats the Toast
Team 1520 by to Shooter & 3 Other Guys Who Can't Score by 1 7 Backjacks by forfeit -Screaming Midgets From Hell vs. Doggie 
1663 by lortell The Resurrected Blasphemous by 7 Chung Tonight by 18 Angst 
DEPARTMENT OF l'liiLOSOI'IlY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE UAM~: 
Summer 
ANNOUNCES THE MCMAHON/HANK INAUGURAL LECTURE 
B\' 

TORAGE
ALASDAIR 

MACINTYRE RESERVATION 
MCMAHON/HANK PROFt-:s~lll! 01 I'IIII.OSOI'IIV UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE flAME 
'THE PRIVATIZATION 
CALL Nowl 683-19591
OF GOOD' 
• VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18TH 
7:30 P.M. 
• APPROX 2V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION AUDITORIUM 
•GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 
Three Notre Dame faculty membtrs will commrnl on Proressor Madntyre•s llllk: Donald Kommers, Dtplrtmenl or Gonrnmenl and School of Law; Richnd McCormick, Otplrtm~nl of Theology, and David Solomon, Oeplrtmml or Philosophy. Following lhe session, lhtre will be 1 reception in honor or Professor M1clntyre. 
Master Mini Warehouses 
6:15 ·Defensive Aggression vs.Team Trump 

1153 N. Dearborn St. Chicago. IL 60610 
312-951..0585 
-

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, April 18, 1990 
Magic leads Lakersover Supersonics 
SEATTLE (AP) -Magic Johnson's running one-hander from 17 feet out with eight­tenths of a second left Tuesday night gave the Los Angeles Lakers a 102-101 victory over the Seattle SuperSonics and clinched the homecourt advan­tage throughout the NBA play­offs. 
The loss damaged the Sonics' 
bid for a playoff berth in the 
Western Conference. They fell a 
game behind Houston in the 
race for the final playoff berth 
in the Western Conference. 
The Lakers came back to win 
after Derrick McKey's three­
point play gave Seattle a 101­
100 lead with 43.4 seconds left. 
Bulls 111, Celtics 105 
CHICAGO -Michael Jordan 
scored 35 points as Chicago 
snapped Boston's six-game 
winning streak. 

The loss dropped second­
place Boston two games behind 
the idle Philadelphia 76ers in 
the Atlantic Division and gave 
the Bulls 10 victories in their 
last 12 games. 

Boston never led in the game, 
and the closest the Celtics came 
in the final quarter was when 
Jim Paxson scored off a fast 
break with 25 seconds left, 
making the score 105-104. 
Kevin McHale led the Celtics 
with 28 points, Reggie Lewis 
had 24 and Larry Bird 23. 
Rockets 112, Kings 97 
HOUSTON -Sleepy Floyd scored 11 points and had three steals in an 18-2 fourth-quarter run that carried Houston past Sacramento. 

Mavericks 97, Jazz 96 
DALLAS -Dallas almost blew a 15-point fourth-quarter lead but survived a late Utah rally behind 24 points from Derek Harper. 
With the loss, the Jazz slipped to just a game ahead of second­place San Antonio in the Midwest Division. 
Cavaliers 96, Bucks 88 
MILWAUKEE-John Williams scored 19 points, and Cleveland held off a late run and maintained its hold on the final Eastern Conference play­off spot by defeating Milwaukee. 
Hawks 118, Nets 95 

ATLANTA -Dominique Wilkins scored 36 points and Atlanta broke open a close game by outscoring New Jersey 35-18 in the final period, hand­ing the Nets their 27th consecu­tive road loss. 
Foreman comeback continues with victory 
STATELINE, Nev. (AP) ­Former heavyweight champion George Foreman pummeled the ample belly of overmatched Mike Jameson, bloodied his eye and knocked him out in the fourth round Tuesday night to stay on track for a title shot. 
Foreman, slow and plodding but still much quicker and sharper than Jameson, ended the bout at 2:16 of the fourth with a left hook that dropped Jameson in a heap in his own corner. Earlier in the round, Foreman knocked Jameson's mouthpiece out for the third time in the fight, and opened a deep, ugly gash over his left eye that led to a brief halt while the ringside doctor checked the damage. 
Jameson was breathing hard from the body blows and had blood dripping down his face when referee Mills Lane began to move in, apparently intent on stopping the fight. Before Lane could intervene, Foreman hit Jameson with the left hook to ended it. 
"I can take a good punch," Jameson said. "But by God, he hit me harder than anyone, even Mike Tyson. He hits you with those hands, it's like a wrecking ball coming at you." 
foreman knocked out Jameson's mouthpiece twice in the third round and dropped him to one knee with a right­left-right combination to the head in the only other knock­down of the scheduled 10­rounder. 
Neither lean nor mean, and now just a slow fighting ma­chine, Foreman weighed 260 pounds against the 233-pound Jameson. 
Foreman, who claims to be 41 though fight records list him as 42, is enjoying life in his sec­ond ring career. 
He had another easy payday at Caesars Tahoe, reportedly earning $200,000, to buy a little more equipment for his Houston youth center and gain 

a  bit  more  credibility  for  a  
challenge fo r the title.  
Jameson  appeared  to  be  a  

perfect setup: an ex-barroom bouncer from Cupertino, Calif, who hadn't fought in three years and had a modest 17-14 ecord with six knockouts. 

His claim to fame was work­ing as Tyson's sparring part­ner, a job that testified at least to Jameson's bravery and re­silience. When fighting for real, Tyson knocked out Jameson in five rounds in 1986, the first of six straight losses before Jameson quit the ring. 
Ironically. his last ring ap­pearance was a two-round ex­hibition in Brazil in 1987 against Jimmy Young, the same lighter who beat Foreman in 12 rounds in Puerto Hico a decade earlier and sent him into re­tirement and the religious life. 
When Foreman started his comeback 21 fights ago, in 198 7, he had two goals -to get his boys club out of hoek, and to win the heavyweight title again. 
lie's aecomplished his first goal and has a chance for the second, with a possible stop first to pick up several million dollars fighting Tyson in the fall. 
*Can the Soviets trust us tc keep our end of the bargain? *What's in the future for U.S.-Soviet Relations? 
'' .
' 
) 

U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS 
*Can we trust the Soviets to keep their end of the bargain? *Is a nuclear war "winnable"? 
April 18, 1990 ~ ~rms Contra1 and the Changes in the Communist World~ 
q 

presented by: 
AMB. RALPH EARLE II 
• Chief U.S. negotiator at the SALT II Thlks in Geneva
-
• 
Director of the U.S. Arms Control ancl Disarma­ment Agency 

• 
Senior Civilian Representative of the Defense Department at NA1D Headquarters 


TIME CHANGE 
8:30 Cushing 
STIJDF.NT UNION OOARD 




Wednesday, April 18, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Notre Dame women's tennis team swept by Wolverines 
feat. down. They just outplayed us, row, and we really needed a
tly BARBARA MORAN squad without the services o( 
"Not having those two in really." break. If you can play a few at
Sports Writer top player Tracy Barton and 
there hurt us, but we just didn't The Irish have only three home it's okay, but on the road
fifth seed Kristy Doran. Both 
play real well," said the coach. matches left in the regular sea-it's rough."
Thn Notre Damn women's players have been out for sev­
"We played bard but not real son, and Louderback cited end-The Irish won't get a break
tPnnis team dropped its record eral weeks with injuries. 
well. We mentally lost some of-season fatigue as another from the drudgery of the road
to 14-H with a disappointing 6-Although Irish coach Jay 
close first sets, and then bar! possible factor in the loss. this weekend, as they will head
0 loss to the University of Louderback felt that the ab­
let-downs in the second sets. "We looked tired," said to Illinois to take on Indiana
Michigan in Ann Arbor last sence of the two figured into 
"They have a good team, Louderback. "We've been on the State and Illinois State on
Thursday. the loss, he cited other reasons 
thev're reallv solid all the way road for five weekends in a Saturday.
The Irish faced the Michigan as being responsible for the de-
NC State chancellor faces public 
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) -North to remain eligible," Monteith specifics)," Faculty Senate Carolina State basketball play-said, reading from a statement chairman Ray Long said. "I ers weren't motivated to study he also delivered to the school's think because of the nature of under former Coach Jim Board of Trustees several the data it's very difficult to be Valvano unless their playing weeks ago. "Clearly, many of very specific without ... identify­time was threatened, the these young men could make ing specific individuals. We cer­school's interim chancellor said progress toward a degree but tainly don't want to do that. Tuesday. were not motivated or guided "I haven't seen the data and 
Larry Monteith, addressing to do so." I'm not going to second guess the school's Faculty Senate for Monteith said academic per-him at this point," Long said. the first time since Valvano was formance of the basketball ''I'm satisfied." removed as coach less than two team also declined after the 
Monteith said the school
weeks ago, said Valvano's Wolfpack won national cham­
would now try to "heal its
teams in the 1980s also relied pionships in 197 4 under Norm 
wounds." lie said problems
heavily on academic exceptions. Sloan and 1983 under Valvano. 
centered around admissions,
Monteith had undertaken an The special meeting lasted
academic performance while at
internal investigation of the about 30 minutes and reporters
Proven Preparation For The Bar Exams Of: N.C. State, and progress to­
men's basketball program after weren't allowed to ask ques­
California Florida Massachusetts NewMetico Tetas ward a degree.
he was named interim chancel-tions. Only a handful of ques­
Colondo lninois Michigan New Vorl< Vermont 
"The problem with poor aca­Coonecticut Maine New Hampshil"l! Pemsylvania Virginia lor in September 1989, replac-tions were asked by faculty demic performance in men's
Dis!. of Columbia Maryland New Jersey Rhode Island ing Bruce Poulton, who re-members, who had requested basketball has a history dating 
signed amid controversy sur-that Monteith report back to 
back to the mid-to-late 1970s,"
rounding the Wolfpack pro-them after his speech to the 
he said. 
gram. trustees, who voted 9-3 last Valvano, who coached the month to oust Valvano. 
Monteith said Sloan, who
Wolfpack for 10 years, stepped "We need help from the 
coached N.C. State from 1967­
down April 7 after university coach, the assistant coaches, 
80, and Valvano were inter­
and school booster officials from tutors ... to force these STANLEY H. agreed to pay him more than young men to understand the viewed by school administra­
tors many times during the
$600,000. value of our university and the
KAPIAN-SMH 
past two decades and said they
The basketball program was importance of making progressBAR REVIEW SERVICES placed on two years' probation toward a degree," Monteith would not rely on academic ex­
ceptions.
by the NCAA in December after said. players received cash and items
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
of value in exchange for tickets Monteith gave no specific "However, in the 1980s, a
South Bend, IN 46637 
and shoes. academic records, but said per-majority of the freshman re-
PHONE 219/272-4135 
"Probably the most disbeart-formance under Valvano the cruited ... were, in fact, aca­ening part of my review was to last 10 years was "extremely demic expections," he said. "It know that when eligibility was poor." was not a surprise that a rna­the issue. most players could "I don't know if I can say I'm jority were suspended or pass the course work requir-ed disappointed (about the lack of dropped out." 
The Best Care for Your Apple Equipment Now at Reduced Prices! 

Now through May 15th, buy 6months ofAppleCare, get another 6months FREE! 
Your Apple® equipment is among the most reliable in the no matter how often. What's more, AppleCare is honored by computer industry. It has been designed, tested, and nearly 2,000 authorized Apple resellers nationwide. manufactured to give you years of trouble-free computing. Now is the best time to get the valuable protection your But like anything capable of helping you do so much, your Apple equipment deserves. Just stop by the Notre Dame Apple equipment requires care and maintenance to continue Computer Store to take advantage of this great offer! working in top form. 
And as we all know, the unexpected sometimes happens. NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
So perhaps the most important step toward caring for it is to 
Office of University Computing 
purchase AppleCare® -Apple's extended service plan. 
Computing Center/Math Building 
-

When you're covered by AppleCare, if your Apple 
Phone: 239-7477 

Hours: Mon.-Fri., 9:00-5:00
equipment should need service, just take it to any authorized Apple reseller, where it will be repaired at no extra charge ­

® The Power To Be Your Best. 




page 16 The Obeervar Wednesday, April 18, 1990 
Linebackers prepare to lead Irish 
Stonebreaker will be able to re­shows more with him. He's Associate Sports Editor peat, if not improve upon, his done what a guy has to do." 
'88 performance. Seniors Scott Kowalkowski 
Much of the attention sur­"(Michael's) progress shows and Andre Jones return at the rounding the Notre Dame foot­more than the others," mar­two outside linebacker posi­ball team this spring has fo­velled Darnell in explaining his tions. Junior Devon McDonald, cused on the return of fifth­first impressions of who split time with Jones at year senior Michael Stonebreaker. "He started off drop end last season, has Stonebreaker to the linebacking slow, but we took the intelligent missed spring practice recover­corps, but the Irish have an approach and started seeing ing from knee surgery. outstanding contingent of both more and more good days." Kowalkowski and Jones, both inside and outside linebackers Stonebreaker is expected to three-year monogram winners, to solidify the middle of the de-· be joined inside by senior-to-be bring a great deal of game ex­fense. Donn Grimm. Grimm, the top perience to the outside 
Notre Dame returns both returning Irish tackler, is linebacker positions. starting outside linebackers slated to move from the McDonald, who tallied 34 tack­from a year ago, plus a third "Eagle" position to the "Mike" les last season, also led the who made a substantial contri­position vacated by Ned Bolcar. team in sacks with four. bution. Inside, the Irish return However, sophomore 
last season's second-highest Demetrius DuBose replaced "Outside linebacker is a good tackler, a 1988 Butkus Award Grimm at "Mike" in both position for us," said Darnell. finalist and several talented Monday's and Tuesday's prac­"We have some outstanding sophomores. tices. Darnell wouldn't allow guys out there right now, and 
"We've turned the corner as more than that both Grimm some of the younger guys can far as what we can do," said and DuBose will get a look, a do the job as well." defensive coordinator and tribute to DuBose's fine spring Those younger guys include linebackers coach Gary Darnell showing thus far. sophomores Erik Simien, following Tuesday's practice, "Donn was hurt for a few Shawn Smith and Karl McGill, the 16th of 20 allotted for the days, which gave Demetrius a all who have seen extensive ac­spring season. "We now know chance to move up," said tion this spring. Simien is ex­what direction to go." Darnell. "He has had an out­pected to back up Kowalkowski 
The direction Darnell refers standing spring." at rush end, while Smith should to is forward, meaning his DuBose, who had seven tack­support Jones at drop end. linebackers will attack oppos­les last season in a backup role, McGill, who earned two sacks ing ball carriers instead of has compiled 22 tackles already in the second scrimmage, also moving laterally to scan the of­in the three spring scrimmages. is listed at rush end. fensive backfield before com­Brian Ratigan, Randy mitting themselves. Scianna, John Farren and Nick "If the pieces fit together well 
Stonebreaker, a consensus Smith add great depth at inside enough," said Darnell, "we'll All-American and Butkus linebacker, a refreshing change see how much they (the Award finalist in 1988, returns from the scant numbers of the linebackers) do fly around out at the "Sam" (formerly called past several seasons. Smith, in there. We'll see how many guys "Eagle") linebacker position particular, has impressed have that fanaticism, how high after sitting out a one-year Darnell with his solid play. it is and how long they can sus­suspension in '89 for disci­" I can see a very lot of im­tain it. plinary reasons. Early indica­provement in Nick Smith," said "We want it so they can tions are positive that the first-year coach. "It just barely breathe." · 
By FRANK PASTOR 

lection process was the in­tion from bowl lobbyists, there creasing corporate sponsor­isn't going to be some divine
CFA 

ship of the bowls. When revolution that sweeps away
continued from page 20 

Federal Express and Sunkist the bowl monsters and restores are wielding substantial influ­a playoff system into power.
The members set out to re­ence in the postseason process, Besides, Notre Dame doesn'tview such issues concerning benign financial support could exactly support a playoff sys­bowls as finances, the selection dictate commercial interests tem. Consider Rosenthal: l~ l~l " • • Houston, Texas ·.· .·.
process and number of games. 
instead of collegiate ones. "Notre Dame is absolutely
Regarding finances, no for­:~ :~: The right chmce was there when I ::~ :~:
Although there are 18 bowls, opposed to a playoff system.
mal recommendations were some do not pay enough to We have no intention whatso­~~ rneeded it. I made that choice, and now I'm :1~ ~~~ 
made, but it was determined that 24 CFA members partici­cover the costs of a school at­ever for a playoff system, prin­~~ ma. physician. My alma mater may be just j~j?
tending them. This was not cipally because it would extend 
pated in 15 bowls, accruing a. :~ :~: right for you. It's your choice." 
::~ :~:
considered a problem by the the season, and that would betotal of $33,240,000. Of that committee since bowls never­totally offensive to the aca­
grand pot, 58 percent was 
,o,OM"'
theless provide national expo­demic calendar. Our position is taken by the seven teams play­sure and repute for teams that unequivocal and quite clear." Q ·-~~c~IJ, <, Universidad Aut6noma de Guadalajara
ing in the meaty bowls­0 l ?:.
attend them. The idea here is Meanwhile proponents of a School of Medicine
Orange, Cotton, Sugar and \ ._...... }
that the Holiday Bowl and a playoff system can either gnash 1-1), ,........ Guadalajara, Mexico
Fiesta-all taking in $5 million 
........./..... •"

loss of money is better than no their teeth or hope that theor more. Furthermore, the net bowl at all. faint light at the end of theof the lucky seven accounted Amidst this clutter of review tunnel will yield changes in the The International Choice for 79 percent of all net re­the national championship idea future. Those who support theceipts, since not all teams made was not abandoned. But with bowls needn't worry much
profits from appearing in ·~~ ~~~ For your free video preview call: 1-800-531-5494 :~~ ~~~ 
the dismissal of overly about the CFA Postseason
bowls. 

"ambitious" ideas and opposi-Review Committee. Ei t~
In discussions regarding the selection process, it was deter­mined that a major problem was that schools do not have control of the games. The insti­tutions are merely invited, and this opens the floodgates to po­tential inequities. For example, schools could be notified when 

BIKE CLINIC
they are only a second or third choice for a bowl, creating con­fusion and misunderstanding. The committee recommended 
that one person per bowl be in 
charge of doling out invita­
-
tions. 
Another probl~m. with the se-

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18 4:00PM FIELDHOUSE MALL 
nev producu 
In cue or bad weather, the clinic vUl be held In the FOOTBALL AUDITORIUM at the JACC 
call 239 -5100 for further lntormatlon 
Our thanks to OUTPOST SPORTS for presenting the clinic 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bookstore Basketball needs referees. Pay is $8 per game. Call Jeff at 1505 for more information. 
Crew team will meet at 7:30 p.m. tonight in 104 O'Shag. Bring money for Madison and awards ceremony. 
The Hapkido Club meets. Tues. at 7:30 and Thurs. at 8 
p.m. in Rm. 219, Rockne. Learn self-defense from 6th degree Korean master. Beginners welcome. FREE! 
Andrea Alexander, a 5-10 forward at Brandywine High School in Niles, MI signed a letter of intent April 11th to enroll at Notre Dame and play basketball. Alexander was a Michigan Class C all-state pick, a three time All-Lakeland pick and averaged 13.9 points and 9.6 rebounds as a senior. She finished her career with 1,054 career points. 
The 60th Annual Blue-Gold Game will be April 28th at 
1:30 p.m. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will be admitted at gates 15 and 16 upon presentation of their I.D. card. General admission tickets are available in advance at gate 10 of the JACC from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mon-Sat. Adult tickets are $4 in advance, $5 day of the game while children's tickets are $2 in advance and $3 the day of the game. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 
~ ~!~!Je£>!J~~w~ 

"Doesn't every Pre-med deserve a choice?" 
~:-;;,<,;::;;;;;M.D. !UAG 75! 

BIKE TOUR 
25 MILE ROUND TRIP LAKE MICHIGAN ROUTE SUNDAY, APRIL 22 
ADVANCE REGISTRATION REQUffiED $3.00 FEE TO COVER FOOD COSTS REGISTER ATNV A BY 
Wednesday, April 18, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Cubs outlast Mets, win 8-6 in -13 innings 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Third baseman Howard Johnson's two-out throwing error in the 13th inning allowed two Chicago runs to score, end­ing a sloppy evening of wasted chances for the Cubs and Nnw York. The teams combined for 22 walks, six errors and eight stolen basns. The Mnts left the bases loaded in the third, ninth and 1Oth innings and stranded 18 runners, 10 in scoring position. 
Chicago got the winning run for Paul Assenmacher ( 1-0) in the 13th when Joe Girardi singled with one out ofT Jeff Innis (0-1), stole second with two outs and continued to third on catcher Orlando Mercado's throwing error. Aftnr Jerome Walton walked, Hyne Sandberg hit a grounder to Johnson, who lielded it cleanly but threw wildly past first base for his second error of the game and the Mets' fifth. 
Sandberg's HBI grounder put Chieago ahead 6-5 in the 11th. Mike Marshall led off thn bottom half with his first home run. Sandberg tied a major league record for in­lieldPrs with his 97th con­sncutive errorless game. lie matched the mark set by San Franeiseo's Jim Davenport from 1966-68. 
Lloyd McClendon gave the Cubs a 5-2 lead with a grand slam in the fifth, but Johnson hit a three-run homer in the bottom of the inning to tie the game. 
Dodgers 1 0, Giants 5 
SAN FHANCISCO (AP) ­Mike Seioseia homered to lead thn Los Angeles Dodgers to a 10-5 vietory Tuesday night ovor San Francisco, the fourth time in live gamns the Giants have lost when loading or tied in the nighth inning. 
With the game tied at 5-5 in thn eighth, Seioseia hit a 2-1 pitch from rnJip,ver Atlee I lam maker (0-1) to put the Dodgers ahead for goon and take a share of the National League lead with his third home run. 
Twins 6, Mariners 5 
SEATTLE (AP) -Kent llrbek's tie-breaking single in the ninth inning enabled Minnesota to snap a three­game losing streak. Kirby Puckett doubled off Keith Comstock (0-1) with one out in the ninth and Ilrbek fol­lowed with his run-scoring single. Winner Juan Berenguer (1-0) retired all three batters he faced in the eighth. Hick Aguilera pitehed the ninth for his third save. 
The score had.been tied 5­5 sinee Seattle's David Valle hit a solo home run in the bottom of the fourth. Third baseman Darnell Coles hit a two-run homer for Seattle but also eommitted an error that gave Minnesota a 5-4 lead. 
Royals 4, Indians 2 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP)­Kurt Stillwell drove in the ty­ing and lead runs with a sixth-inning triple and con­tinued home on rookie sec­ond baseman Carlos Baerga's throwing error as Kansas City rallied past Cleveland. 
The Indians had taken a 2­0 lead behind former Hoyal Bud Blaek, who blanked Kansas City until the sixth when Kevin Seitzer doubled and George Brett walked with one out. Steve Olin re­placed Blaek and surren­dered an HBI single to Bo Jackson. 
Kevin Wickander replaced Olin (0-1) and struck out Jim Eiesnreich. But Stillwell, batting right-handed against the left-handed Wickander, hit a line drive in the gap that right fielder Cory Snyder barely missed. As Brett and Jackson scored, center fielder Dion James re­trieved the ball and threw to Baerga, whose relay to third was wild. 
#1 seeded Irish softball team gearing up for MCC Tournament 



Why Send Your Winter Clothes Home for the Summer? 
Just pick up a storage box at llkar Claanen, Fill it with your winter clothes, and ratum it to Zilcan to lie cleaned and stored, on hangan Ia our moth-proof vault lor the sum... 
*Low Cost Storage

*Nothing to Pay lftll Fall 
*Protection hom Moths/ftre/Theft
*More Closet Space lor your 
summer things. 

I Colnraieat Lacalillaa *107 US II (acran fram Ball lnaa)272-8093 

*lroawood at s.th Bead Ave. (Naxt to Martla a) lreeawood Sbapphlg Clmtar 171-1481 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
out. Rotkis doubled to d,rive 
home Lund and then came 
home on Mike Coss' single. 
Coss stole second and scored 
on a Dan Bautch safety. After a 
Danapilis walk, Craig Counsell 
brought home the final two 
runs of the onslaught with a 
double. 
The Irish added two more in 
the fourth, a Binkiewicz cannon 
shot in the sixth and another 
pair in the seventh. The Boilers 
scored single runs in the sev­
enth and ninth. Rotkis and 
Counsell each had three HBI's 
for the contest. 
"This game showed that our team doesn't rely on one big hitter," explained Murphy. '"People thought Dan Peltier was the sole reason for our success last year and that couldn't be further from the truth. lie wasn't the sole rea­son just like Tony Hice wasn't the only reason for the football team's success." 
Dave Sinnes worked four 
scoreless innings to pick up the 
win while Chris Michalak 
worked three and Mike Coffey 
two to finish up. 
In Saturday's 6-4 victory, the Irish got out of the gate quickly again with three in the first. Counsell was safe on an error and Frank Jacobs singled. Lund was a hit by a pitch before a balk brought home Counsell. A wild pitch plated Jacobs and a Binkiewiez single scored Lund. Xavier closed to 5-4 in the fifth, but the Irish got some breathing room with a marker in the sixth. Michalak came on in the seventh to get his third save for Pat Leahy (4­
0) who worked six strong innings. 
In Sunday's first game; the Irish dropped a nailbiter, 3"2. Brian Petrowicz, the tough-luck loser worked six innings giving up seven hits, but only one earned run. The game was 1-1 until the fifth when the Musketeers scored two runs after an error opened the in­ning. The Irish closed to 3-2 in the sixth, and had a big chance in the eighth. Hotkis (.345) and Coss opened with singles. With two out, Danapilis walked, but pinch hitter Jason Martinez was caught looking to end the threat. 
" Anytime you lose by one it's tough," Murphy said. "There had three RBI's and scored a run. Sophomores Amy Folsom and Huth Kmak chipped in with two hits each and scored 5 runs between them. 
"We played real well and it was a good win for us to get ready for the tournament," said coach Brain Boulac. "It was good to see the offense get on track and start finding the holes in the defense. If we keep swinging the bats well and play solid defense, we have as good a shot as anybody at winning the tournament." 
NOTES: The MCC tournament seedings were announced yes­terday with the Irish gaining the number one seed. By gain­ing the number one seed, the Irish get a first round bye and will play the winner of the #4 Dayton and #5 Dayton match­up. 
"It should be a very interest­ing tournament," said Boulac. "all the teams are very even. I thought Dayton would probably get the number one seed, but I still think Detroit's got to be the favorite. They've won three straight titles and and have most of their players back from last year." 
were a lot of times we didn't execute and for the weekend we were very average. The pitching carried us through. It's time for the hitters to put it to­gether." 
Martinez put it together and redeemed himself in game two as his eighth inning single broke a 2-2 tie. The Irish added another run, but had to hold on for dear life in the bottom half. Mike Coffey came to the rescue when he dispelled a one-out bases loaded situation with a strikeout and a groundout. 
" He's (Coffey) eoming off an injury from last summer and fall," said Murphy. " We've been breaking him in slowly, but he'll play a key role down the stretch." 
Dave Sinnes was spectacular in Monday's 2-0 win, allowing only a fourth inning single and a walk in the seventh. 
"That's the best pitched game since I've been here," stated Murphy. 
Sinnes, now 5-1 with a 0.55 EHA struek out ten. As of late, he's almost been unhittable. 
"He has decent stuff, a hard fastball and a good slider, but his concentration has been out­standing. lie knows he has a long way to go though." 
-

By RICHARD MATHURIN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team (14-13) geared up for the MCC tournament by going 2-2 during the past week. 
On Wednesday April 11, the Irish traveled to DePaul to face the Blue Demons in a double­header. Once again, the Blue Demons proved to be a thorn in the side of the Irish, sweeping the doubleheader by scores of 6-1 and 3-2. The DePaul offense showed its musde by smashing three home runs in the doubleheader. 
The Irish W3re snowed out of their next game on Thursday April 12 against Detroit. The game has tentatively been rescheduled for April 30. 
NO bounced back on Monday April 16 by taking both ends of a doubleheader versus Loyola by scores of 4-0 and 15-1. 
Sophomore pitcher Missy Linn dominated the first game, pitching a one hitter to raise her record to 8-6. She stuek out six and walked only two. 
In the seeond game, freshman star Staei Alford got the offen­sive support that has been 
Missy Lynn 

lacking in many of her starts. She allowed only 5 hits and struck out 4 to move her record to 9-6. 
The offense woke up in a big way. banging out 11 hits and tyi_ng a reeord for the most runs in a game, whieh was set last season. The amazing thing about the performance was that the game only went five in­nings. Freshman Susan O'Connor led the way eollecting two hits and scoring twice. Debbie Boulac, also a fresh­man, drove in three runs on two base hits and scored an­other. Junior Hache! Carson 

page 18 The Observer Wednesday, April 18, 1990 
ND track team enjoys nice weather and fast times at Stanford Invitational meet 
Several athletes set personal By MICHAEL MALODY records on the day. Senior Rob Sports Writer Fitzgerald putted the shot 50 
feet two-inches, junior Tony 
The Irish track team spent Smith threw the discus 158 feet Easter vacation on the road, nine-inches, and sophomore Bill traveling to Palo Alto, Cal., to Dauphinais finished the 5000 face a class field, including the meters in 14:36.64, all personal likes of Nevada-Reno, Long bests. Beach City College, and host Highlighting the distance Stanford, in the 1990 Stanford events, freshman John Coyle Track and Field Classic. finished the 5000 meters in 
Senior co-Captain Yan 14:30.59, one of the top ten Searcy, though suffering from marks in Irish history, in only jet lag, managed to collect yet the second time competing at another victory in the 400 me­that distance. He is coming off ters last Saturday. Even after a very successful cross-country the victory, he was discouraged season, in which he qualified to with the outing. ."1 won the 400 compete in the Junior World meters, and I am satisfied with Championships. "That that," he remarked, " but I [qualifying for the Junior didn't [physically] feel well." World] gave me confidence," he With a little warmer weather, remarked, "I am optimistic, but and continual progress, he feels I still have no idea what I can that a qualifiying time in the do." With more experience, NCAA finals is still within and a tougher mental attitude, reach. he feels that he can improve in 
Javelin throwers Ryan the event. Mihalko and Matt DeAngelis On a similar high note, continued to perform well for Freshman J.T. Burke placed in the Irish. Mihalko's throw of the 1500 meters with a season 203-feet five-inches, his best of best 3:55.3. The Portland, the year, edged out DeAngelis' Connecticut, native was ranked throw of 196-feet nine-inches as number one prospect in the for second place. 1500 meters out of high school (AP)-After surviving seventh scoreless during that stretch, Gretzky-less Edmonton usu­
Irish hurdlers, likewise, last year by Track and Field game showdowns to stay alive then got two goals apiece from ally gets its offensive thrust boasted inspirational perfor­News. in the NHL playoffs, Chicago Wayne Presley and Jeremy from veterans Mark Messier, mances. Sophomore Pat and Edmonton had precious lit­Roenick to put away the North Glenn Anderson and Jari Kurri Devanny, a native of Rochester, "Overall, it was a great tle time to reflect on their ac­Stars. but Mark Lamb had two game­New York, captured second in meet," Head Coach Joe Piane complishments. The Oilers lost three of the winners against Winnipeg, one the 400 intermediate hurdles, recalled. "All of our athletes The Blackhawks and Oilers first four games of their series in overtime, and set up Kurri's and junior Glen Watson, a na­were challenged. I was partic­plunge right back into the against Winnipeg and then game-winner in Game 6. tive of South Bend, was the ularly impressed with the game-every-other-night grind bounced back to win three runner-up in the 110 meter amount of personal records. It Wednesday, opening second straight. Edmonton became St. Louis, which dispatchedhighs. was a good performance." round Stanley Cup series, only the seventh team in NHL Toronto in five games, could 
Chicago against St. Louis and history to come back from a 3-have first string goalie Curtis Edmonton facing Los Angeles. 1 deficit in a playoff series. A Joseph back from a bruised
Oakland council votes 
In both cases, the year ago, Los Angeles did the shoulder for the series against Blackhawks and the Oilers are same thing to the Oilers and Chicago. Otherwise Vincent home where they won seventh now the Kings, conquerers of Riendeau gets the call. The
to rescind Raider offer 
games on Monday, Chicago fin­defending champion Calgary in Blues' offense rides the broad ishing off Minnesota 5-2 and this season's opening round, shoulders of Brett Hull, who 
... OAKLAND, Calif. (AP)-The saying that if the deal "isn't Edmonton eliminating face Edmonton again. followed as record-breaking Oakland City Council on dead, it's dying." Winnipeg 4-1. regular season with five goals Tuesday night tentatively ap­Alameda County Board of The other second round Whenever the Kings and and five assists in the first proved rescinding a $428 mil­Supervisor Don Perata said he, series open Thursday with New Oilers play, the focus is on round against the Maple Leafs. lion plan to return the Raiders too, saw the petition drive as a Jersey playing the New York Wayne Gretzky, who began his football team to its city of ori­yellow flag killing the play to Rangers and Montreal meeting record-breaking NHL career in Blackhawk goalie Greggin. get the Raiders to leave Los the winner of Tuesday's Edmonton before being traded Millen, who opened the season However, the council's 6-0 Angeles and return to the Boston-Hartford game. to LA last season. However, with St. Louis and wound up in vote also approved reopening Oakland Coliseum, where they Chicago and Edmonton were Gretzky comes into this series Chicago after a pitstop in of a new round of talks to lure played from 1960 to 1982. The both in trouble in their opening with an aching back that kept Quebec had an up and down the Raiders from Los Angeles. team's lease in the Los Angeles series and both battled their him out of the first two games opening series againstThe issue wasn't on the Memorial Coliseum expires at way past adversity to advance. against the Flames. The Kings Minnesota. He played well for agenda of Tuesday night's the end of the 1991 season. The Blackhawks, already found firepower elsewhere as wins in Games 3, 5 and 7, but meeting so the vote showed the "In my judgment, the deal is trailing 1-0, had to kill off con­Tony Granato, Tomas poorly and was pulled in Games council's "intent to rescind the over with," Perata said. "We secutive first period major Sandstrom and Dave Taylor 2, 4 and 6. Presley and Roenick deal," said a spokeswoman for can get on to other matters. penalties that left them two helped Los Angeles set a record both had five goals and Gregthe mayor's office. That vote The mayor has an election and men short for more than two by scoring three hat tricks in a Gilbert produced four againstwill have to take place at the I have other business." minutes. They held Minnesota playoff game. the North Stars. 

next meeting after it is on the agenda, a move required under the state's open meeting law. 
"This morning I had two con­versations with representatives of the Raiders," Mayor Lionel Wilson told the council. 
The mayor said he wanted to "attempt to arrive at some kind of resolution" with all parties, including those who opposed the plan. 
The arrangement negotiated during the past 14 months was 
-undone mainly by an end run of petitions to place the football pact before Alameda County voters. 
Wilson announced Monday that he would ask for the vote, 
9:30PM THURSDAY at 


is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
Layout and Design Staff 
To apply, or for further information, 
contact: 
Joe Zadrozny, Production Manager 
at 239-7471or at 283-3128. 
as seen on the 
•
-· 
. 

Students earn money and gain job experience this summer. Positions now open in: 
• 
Marketing • Finance 

• 
Personnel • Accounting 

• 
Distribution • Manufacturing 

• 
Communications • Telemarketing 


No experience necessary. No fee, no contract. We have the positions/hours to keep you busy this summer. 
l'\ol'telr Contact these offices for more Information: 
-·­

One Mid America Plaza 645 North Michigan Avenue Oak Brook Terrace, IL 60181 Chicago, IL 60611 708/574-2797 312/337-6054 
2 Pebblewood East Bldg. 4740 West 95th Street 
1601 North Bond Street Oak Lawn, IL 60453 
Naperville, IL 60563 708/ 636-0401 
708/369-2440 

4709 GoH Road 55 West Monroe Street Skokie, IL 60076 Chicago, IL 60603 708/ 673-4024 312/782-4181 
1300 Higgins Road 930 State Parkway Park Ridge, IL 60068 Schaumburg,IL 60173 708/318-0990 708/ 605-1233 
35 East Wacker Drive Chicago, IL 60601 312/345-2976 
COMEDIAN 


~
WALLI COLLINS half hour Comedy Hou 
NIGHTCLUB 


Free sports bottles to the the lind 100 people through the door 
Brlns: !n this ad and receive an additional $20.00 on your first paycheck. 
----~--~~ ------~-­
Wednesday, April 18, 1990 The Observer page 19 

LECTURE CIRCUIT Wednesday 
2:15p.m. Lecture, "The Congruence Between Knowledge and Behavior: Identification of Child Abuse," Suzanne Steinmetz, professor and director of Family Hesearch, Indiana University, Indianapolis. llesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by Department of Sociology. 
3:25p.m. Lecture, "The Marine Air-Ground Task Force War Fighting Presentation," Col. Bartels and a six man team from Virginia. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Naval Science. 
4 p.m. Lecture, "Global Environmental Issues and Na­tional Security: Comments on 'Our Common Future,"' Daniel Luecke, director, Hocky Mountain Hegional Office, Environmental Defense Fund. Hoom 121 Law School. Sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Stud­
if~s. 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Hadon-Penrose Transforms," Pro­fessor Gennadi llenkin, Academy of Science of the USSH Central Economic and Mathematical Institute, Moscow. Hoorn 226 Math Building. Sponsored by Department of Mathmnatir.s and Offir.e of the Prnvn-.1 
6:30 p.m. Lecturn and workshop, "Where are you in your Job Search'!" .JI~IT Hice, assistant director, Career and Placement Services. CSC. Sponsornd by Carner and Plar.mnent Services. 
7 p.m. Lecture, "The Spread of the Asian Tiger Mosquito Through the Amerieas," Dr. George Craig, Biol­ogy department. Hoom 4 Galvin. Sponsonrd by the Biol­ogy Club. 
7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Job's Daughters: Women and Power," Sistnr Joan Chittister, OSB, National Catholic He­portnr columnist and prioress, Benedictine Sisters, Erie, Pa. ()'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Spon­sored by SMC Center for Spirituality. 
8:30 p.m. Leetun\ "Arms Control and the Changes in the Communist World," Ambassador Halph Earle. Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
MENUS 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Stir Fry Beef and Green Pepper Veal Scallopini and Noodles 
Chicken Pot Pie Fettucini Alfredo 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
r 0\J!IINO. l'D ioo S(,t-l u~> JUST Rr>-T1-I£R T() Pl~'l u.st· R\JN t>.ROO!II\). 
-..l-l'i ll\DIIIT 
Beef Tacos Pasta Bean Casserole 
Deli 
BILL WATTERSON 
I 14f..T£ r-.1...1... \We R\.1\...'i:.S 
f>.\11~ OQ..Gt\t-l\'Z.f>..l\0~ f>.\'\0 T£(>.11\S r..NO Rr..~K5 ll'l 
ACROSS 28 Elephant boy of films
1 Elec. units 30 House style 
5 Italian isle 32 Open ranking, 
10 Finger ends e.g.
14 Julie Christie 35 Squirm
role 37 --is to say
15 Gray 16 Fit for service 39 Vineyard: Fr. 
11 In a balanced 40 Describing way 
certain athletics 

20 Silence! 43 XIII quadrupled 
21 Mort. the 44 Sun, e.g. comedian 
45 Gap 22 Flagpoles 
46 Thirteen popes 23 H20, at times 
48 Facing a glacier25 Banker's Sallie 
50 Hops dryer 
51 Old horse 

27 North Pole denizen 53 Menton is one 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ANNAIIMAM  OPERA  
L 0  A M  N A S A  T IO P E R  
APPIAN.~Y  TREAT  

NAPLES ROB.TEDS D R Y ElF10 R E G 0 
0 L E S R E F U T E APES ATE GAITER 
RELAP••NESS 
C L I N I C T A ~0 S T E s T EMMA IAIT 0 M APLACE OVALS 
FE A RII.!,.N~· ELEGIT ADMIN VI AVENETO R E I N E I L 'K A I0 N E R ENDOW LEAS MARK 
CROSSWORD 
54 Temple U. mascot 55 Transparencies 58 "Tell-the Marines" 60 Ark builder. to Antonio 63 Unenchanted state 66 Essen elder 
67. Access 68 Where Bhutan is 69 Touch gently 70 Gives medicine 
to 71 He wrote "Moses": 1951 
DOWN 
1 Maritime or Pennme-­2 Fourth-from-the­
sun planet 3 Volstead 
supporters 4 Undermine 5 Irene of "Fame" 
fame 6 Breathing disorder 7 Benevolent 
people 8 Old car 9 British-of 
Court 10 Demolishes 11 Useless 
condition 
THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON 




12 Riches 13 What Simon 
does 18 Sugar suffix 19 Corroded 24 Shrewd 26 Sound repetition 28 Hogwash 29 Corbin Bernsen 
role in "L.A. Law" 
30 Head and arm 
followers 
SPELUNKER 

31 Concert places 33 Actresses 
Moran and Gray 34 Show ticket 36 Pts. of days 38 Chinese pagoda 41 Broadway hit 42 Clumsy boat 47 Thompson and 
Hawkins 49 Literary form 52 Set 
54 Ball or bass ending 55 Mount Rushmore site 56 Caron role 57 Rosebud, e.g. 59 Attic things 61 Chemical suffix 62 Peary's wmter headquarters 64Numero­65 Meadow sound 
JAY HOSLER 


~·· SO,HOW, TH£N, tS IT POSSIBLE. To DATE 50H€ONE FOI?. A YEAR 
oR MOR€-PoOF?tN6? YouR tni/T'S 
our -ro fiftH oN A-!JAIL'( 8.11$­AND NOT Rt:l/f..IU V/'11/L AFIU<. BREA-K!NU.-UP TH;tr SAID P61150N 



Sports 
Irish win 3 out of 4 over weekend 
By MIKE KAMRADT that, but it's going to be tough no obstacle he can't overcome. Sports Writer with the injuries." He's a blue collar player who The Irish lost two starters, wants the ball, wants to be in 
Last year was the most suc­Eric Danapilis and Joe the big situation." cessful year in the history of Binkiewicz, in Monday's 2-0 Against Purdue, the Irish got Notre Dame baseball. The win over Xavier. Freshman busy in a hurry when they squad won 48 games (including rightfielder Danapilis leads the jumped to a 4-0 lead in the first wins over Miami and Texas), team with a .404 average. He's inning. Danapilis started won the MCC, and went to the second in steals (16) and home­things with a walk and then NCAA playoffs. They might runs (2) as well as third in stole second. Eddie Lund have to win more than 48 this REI's with 14. Binkiewicz has reached on an error, with year as there will be no auto­raised his average to .250 and Danapilis going to third. A wild matic bid from the MCC this also has two homers with 16 pitch scored "Dino" and moved year because the NCAA felt the REI's. In addition, he's won Lund to second. Binkiewicz conference isn't deserving. two games as a pitcher. scored Lund with a single and 
Murphy is confident his team came home on Mike Rotkis' 
Last Thursday's 14-2 shel­will pull through the next week two-run blast. lacking of the Purdue or two in good shape. The Irish put the game away Boilermakers could help down "Anytime adversity hits this with five in the third. Lund the road. team, this bunch of guys finds opened with a walk, went to "It's a good win," said Irish a way of getting it done." said second on a passed ball and coach Pat Murphy. "We beat a Murphy. "Bink has been a advance to third on a ground-Big Ten team quite badly. We tremendous part of it all. He's 
see Irish I page 17

have to continue to play like a unique kid. He feels there's 
By KEN TYSIAC inside and score some easy ranked team in each of the past elements to face Mom Always sive turnovers." Associate Sports Editor baskets." three years. Said Don't Play Ball in the NOTES: Women's Bookstore If Sweet Scotty P. is going to "It feels awesome," Corazon House while wearing only un­began yesterday with two for­Top-eight seed Sweet Scotty make a run at the Final Four, said. "We feel we're ready to go derwear. feits and two shellackings. 
P. and the Dwarfs made its most of its points will probably to the Final Four now that we "I used to be a pitcher in the Winning Isn't Everything lived Bookstore Basketball debut on come inside. Besides Paddock, have our first win under our Baltimore Oriole farm system," up to its philosophy by losing Stepan Courts yesterday, but who is 6-9, Sweet Scotty P. belts. As for Adworks, bring joked Mike Murray of Palmer's 21-0 to Rebels With a Cause, was forced to struggle to a 21-boasts three players who are 6-them on, we're ready for the Boys. "We were hoping to fly while Grubs beat Team Number 
16 win over UNLV as its 4 and one who is 6-3. best teams in this tournament." Jim in if we made it to the final 65 by a score of 21-2. biggest star was missing from "Our whole offense will re­Top 32 seed Just Chillin' had 16, but it wasn't meant to be." the lineup. volve around, Paddock, obvi­a difficult time against The Although Palmer's Boys kept Five Sistahs Tired of These 
ously," Falkenberg said. Beaver Cleavers yesterday, but the game close all the way, Fools Trying to be Men won by 
Scott Paddock, a former cen­"Today, though, the key was managed to record a 21-14 Mom Always Said managed to forfeit over Muffet McGraw's ter for Notre Dame, missed his the outside shooting of Phil win. Just Chillin' was playing squeak out a 21-19 victory. Dream Team, while T&A first Bookstore game because Rauen." without 6-6 center Kevin Rule, Palmer's Boy Tim Garrity said missed a chance to strut its he went to Chicago to see the Rauen led Sweet Scotty P. so 6-3 Ray Griggs and 6-3 Rick that he hoped the shock of stuff, but still won when Court Bulls play the Boston Celtics. with eight points. McGillicuddy took charge inside playing a team in dressed in Clodhoppers did not show. Roommate Mike Messaglia Five Vermin Who Have Yet to and scored seven points each. briefs would hurt his opponents The Screaming Midgets From filled in for Paddock, but didn't See the Second Round won its "We have to play better than in the beginning, but when Mom Hell will make a final take a shot in the contest. first Bookstore game after we did today to continue ad­Always Said scored the first Bookstore appearance at 5:30 
"They were pretty quick, but three years of disappointment vancing," said Dave Clar of Just three baskets of the game, on Stepan 7 today against the weather hurt us, too," by a score of 21-14 over Acta Chillin'. "We need to do some Palmer's Boys realized that the Doggie Angst. The Midgets will Sweet Scotty P.'s Marty Sanctorum. Five Vermin's practicing after we get our scare tactic wouldn't work. try to improve a career record Falkenberg said of his squad's Kevin Corazon said that he was whole team back together." "It (the lack of clothing) in­which stands at 1-3 after three first round opponents. "They glad to finally win because his Perhaps the most unusual creased our aerodynamic style years of Bookstore action. played a tight zone on us, but team had been unfortunate game of the day featured of play," added Greg Knapp, needs to make some connec­we were eventually able to get it enough to meet up with a Palmer's Boys, who braved the "but we lost because of exces-tions. 
NO men beat
Notre Dame discusses 
Michigan, first CFA football postseason time in 30 years 
Special to The Observer Imagine a system in which 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -TheNotre Dame would not be at Notre Dame men's tennis teamthe mercy of sports reporters 

ended a 30-year drought
in being named national cham­Tuesday by defeating Michigan pion. Imagine that, instead of 6-0 for the first time since theplaying teams that are not nec­1960 season.
essarily contenders for No. 1 in The Wolverines had toppedbowls named after citrus fruits, the Irish 16 times since NotreNotre Dame could play the Dame's 5-4 win 30 years ago. 
team with the most legitimate Notre Dame's number-oneclaim to the national champi­
player, sophomore David
onship. 

DiLucia, ranked 26th in thisFantasy? Probably. Tradition week's Volvo Tennis/Collegiatealone might prohibit this dream rankings, defeated Michigan'ssituation from ever happening. But there has been some dis­David Kass 6-4, 0-6, 6-4 tocussion among the football elite along these lines. 
spark the Irish win. Kass cameAt the Collegiate Football Association's annual meeting into the match as the nation'slast June, there was enough interest in the postseason cham­17th rated player.
pionship to have a committee formed to study the bowl Notre Dame swept the
structure and determine if there could be improvements re­
maining singles' matches inmade in its execution. The prospect of a national champi­straight sets.
onship game was included in the items of discussion for this Walter Dolhare downed Scottgroup. 
Cuppett 7-6, 6-2 at No. 2,And thus the CFA Postseason Review Committee was born. 
Chuck Coleman edged MitchNotre Dame's own Dick Rosenthal was a member of this Rubenstein 6-4, 6-4 at No. 3,eight-member junta, which also included Georgia's Vince Mark Schmidt beat TerryDooley and John Clune from Air Force, both outspoken crit­London 6-4, 6-1 at No. 4, Andyics of the recent Irish-NBC football package. Presumably Zurcher got past Jon Karzen 7­they put all grudges aside to gather together in brotherly
... 
5, 6-3 at No. 5 and Ron Rosasunity to discuss the best interests of collegiate football. 
defeated David Pierce 6-3, 6-1The commission met during the football season to discuss at No.6.
various issues about the postseason system. To indicate that Notre Dame, ranked 17th inthese members were not a radical band of bowl flag-burn­the nation in this week's Volvoers, they decided that a 16-team playoff system introduced Tennis/Collegiate rankings, willat the June meeting was too "ambitious." 
host Ohio State at 1 p.m.
"The process was one of the constructive kind of review of Sunday at Courtney Tennispostseason football," said Rosenthal. "We were there to de­Center.
termine what could be done on the part of schools and on In related news, the Irishthe part of the bowls. The meeting was discussionary in na­number-one doubles team ofture." 
see CFA/ page 16 DiLucia and Coleman moved up four places to eighth in this week's rankings. 
The Observer I John Studebaker Irish hurlers enjoyed success over the Easter Holiday, as they led ND to key victories. 
Paddock absent as Sweet Scotty P. rolls in first game 







