

FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1990
VOL. XXIII NO. 133 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Chene aims to reduce number of new bombers 
Lithuania must back down, letter says 
MOSCOW (AP) -Lithuanian President Vy­
tautas Landsbergis said Thursday he will care­
fully study a proposal from France and West 
Germany that the Baltic republic temporarily 
suspend its independence drive. 
The letter from French President Francois 
Mitterrand and West German Chancellor Hel­
mut Kohl, delivered to Lithuanian representa­
tives in Moscow, said such a suspension could 
lead to talks with the Kremlin "so that the 
current crisis ends in a solution acceptable to 
all parties." 
Also Thursday, Vilnius Radio reported 
Lithuania will begin food rationing May 1. The 
republic of 3.8 million people is struggling un­
der an economic embargo imposed last week 
by Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev to break 
its campaign for independence. 
Gorbaehev himself was confronted Thursday 
by activists protesting his crackdown in 
Lithuania. During his visit in an industrial city 
in the Ural Mountains, demonstrators raised a 
banner that called him a "political hypocrite." 
• Gorbachev meets protestors/ page 6 
Landsbergis described the letter from Mit­
terrand and Kohl as "a step forward toward 
the realization of Lithuanian independence," 
said parliamentary spokesman Ed Tuskenis, 
spt\aking by telephone. 
Lithuania wants an immediate dialogue, Landsbcrgis said, and "a termination of the Soviet economic blockade against Lithuania would be beneficial to the atmosphere of this dialogue." 
"The leadership of Lithuania, greatly appre­
ciating this aet of goodwill on the part of two 
noted leaders, will carefully study this letter's 
proposition," he added. 
Tuskenis said l.andsbergis viewed "as posi­tive" that the letter from Kohl and Mittcrrand did not mention revoking Lithuania's March 11 declaration of independence. The letter dis­cussed temporary suspension of some deci­sions by the Lithuanian parliament. 
The letter from the French and German lead­ers came two days after President Bush said he would put off sanctions against Moscow for bringing economic and military pressure against Lithuania. 
Kremlin authorities on Monday urged Lithuania to suspend for .two years its decla­ration of independence. 
Lithuanian leaders have refused to revoke the deelaration. But the Baltic republic's lead­ership has always been willing "to discuss the timing and the form of independence, whether or not that's a year or two," Tuskenis said after talking to l.andsbergis. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -De­

Cheney's Proposed Aircraft Cuts 
fense Secretary Dick Cheney on A list of proposed reductions and postponements by the Defense 
Thursday called for slashing Pentagon plans for the B-2Department to trim down earlier defense spending estimates by $34.8 

stealth bomber and other so-billion through 1997. 

phisticated aircraft, citing a+-Revised request +-Original request diminishing Soviet threat. 
·-·-·'""~·"'····-···~"·······,,-.•-.......,..........."""'"'"'"'''·'·······"""<·J Cheney, pressed by congres­8·2 Stealth Bomber proposed request cut: sional Democrats to cut mili-One plane equals 10 75 132 tary spending in response to .ll.......~.ll.......ll.......lii.......lii......~~~.ll......~~ ~j rapid changes in Europe, testi­~rr-rr-rr-rr-~rr-rr-rr-rr-rr-~ rr--1 lied his blueprint would trim 
.•.., ...............•··•····•· .. ···········-..····•·'c•·!'.i'"'.,;..........f·:O········,•:••·''''''rl $2.4 billion from President 
C·17long range transport plane proposed request cut: One plane equals 20 
120 210 
+-+-+-~+-+-~+-~~+ 
Navy's A-12 all weather attack planes proposed request cut: One plane equals 50 620 858 
+--+-+-+-+--+-+-+-..~+-+-+-+-+-+-+-~ 

The Observer/ Steve Moskop 
Yawns on the lawn 
provides an interesting change from the classroom. The fair Students and teachers take advantage of the nice weather weather is expected to last throughout the weekend, making and hold classes outside. The lawn outside of O'Shaugnessy this a perfect time to enjoy An Tostal activities. 


Gas stations 'octane cheat' 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Some ser­vice stations pass off regular gaso­line as higher-priced super premium, according to a congressional study Thursday that said "octane cheat­ing" may be costing motorists $150 million a year. 
The report by the General Ac­counting office estimated that 9 per­cent of gasoline sold nationwide is mislabeled by half an octane number or more. And in several states where pump testing has actually proven mislabeling, the federal government has done little to stop the deception, the report said 
The GAO, the investigative arm of Congress, said motorists who think they are buying premium grades may be losing $150 million a year. 
But Rep. Philip Sharp, D-Ind., who along with Rep. Charles Schumer, D­N.Y., released the report, said the study was conservative and losses 
Bush's $307 billion defense budget for 1991 and would 
~~~~. $34.8 billion through 
In addition to cutting the proposed number of B-2 bombers from 132 to 75, Ch­eney said he intends to cut planned purchases of the C-17 long-range transport plane and the Navy's A-12 attack aircraft, and to delay purchases of the Air Force's Advanced Tactical Aircraft and the Advanced Tactical Fighter. 
The chairman of the House could reach as high as $600 million through growing mislabeling of oc­tane ratings at the pump. 
Sharp's estimate is based partly on the fact that the GAO said that more than half the samples taken in two large cities last year -Detroit and St. Louis -were found to have octane ratings an average of 2.2 or more points below what was posted on the pump. 
"Unfortunately, consumers cannot determine octane ratings visually or in other ways that allow them to know if they are getting what they are paying for," the GAO said. 
Federal law requires that uniform yellow and black labels on gas pumps show the octane rating of gas, and some higher-powered vehicles recom­mend various levels of octane to avoid that unhealthy "ping" or knocking sound in engines. 
A low octane gas can reduce 

Armed Services Committee, Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., com­mended Cheney for "coming to grips with some things he clearly needs to come to grips with" but said he didn't go far enough. 
Citing analysts' testimony one day earlier on the internal problems in the Soviet military as well as U.S. intelligence re­ports predicting instability of the broader Soviet economy, Aspin said Cheney's plan "is based on an unrealistically pes­simistic view of the Soviet threat." 
Cheney later presented his plan to the Senate Armed Ser­vices Committee, where the panel's chairman, Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., gave the secretary high marks for his efforts but declined to adopt the program totals. 
Nunn was puzzled, however, by Cheney's ability to reduce aircraft programs without final figures on the armed forces. 
engine efficiency, mileage and emis­sions in high-powered engines, the GAO said. 
Regular unleaded gas is rated at 87, with midgrade unleaded at 89 and premium grades from 91 to 94. Regular leaded gas is rated at 89. 
The difference in retail price be­tween the lowest and highest grade can range up to 20 cents a gallon. 
"A consumer could be paying sev­eral cents a gallon extra for quality that is not delivered," said Sharp, who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on energy and power. 
A 1978 law requires the Federal Trade Commission and the Environ­mental Protection Agency to enforce compUance with federal petroleum marketing practices. But the GAO 
see OCTANE I page 4 
"How can you make the deci­sion on the numbers withou1 having a firm force structure in mind?" Nunn asked. 
Cheney said the present situa­tion dictates cuts in the B-2 and C-17, and possible reductions in aircraft carriers and Air Force wings will decide the other pro­grams. 
"I can tell you with some con­viction that both the Navy and the Air Force are going to be a lot smaller in the future than they are today," Cheney said. 
The Democratic-controlled House is already debating a fis­cal 1991 budget that would make significant cuts in pro­posed Pentagon spending. The Senate is working on its own version. 
Cheney told the House com­mittee, "Soviet military capabil­ity will continue to be robust but we can in fact afford to slow down the pace of develop-
see CHENEY I page 4 


Friday, April 27, 1990
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN The Simpsons and the Family of the Year This is the year of the family, and what family best exempli­fies the average American family than the Simpsons. None if you ask me? And if you don't care, stop Joe Zadroznyreading this column. The Simpsons are IT! Production Manager There has been a complete turn around in the depiction of the family on television. People are sick and tired of seeing these over-loving families like the Huxtable's or the Brady's. The only true TV show worth watching today is "The Simpsons." The Simpsons recently gained my atten­tion after Doogie Howser dropped Wanda as his girlfriend. Bart has taken over as my personal hero. Bart is a god. He gets away with so much. He cuts the head off of a bronze statue of Springfield's town founder, Jebadiah Zachariah Obadiah Springfield, and talks his way out of it. He cheats on his IQ test, and shows that you don't have to have a 216 IQ to be smart. Bart is smart in his own way. He doesn't fall for these stupid comic book ads. He knows a real bargain when he sees one, a spy camera. Bart takes some wonderful photos: his mother shaving under her arms, a run-over cat, his own butt, and his dad, Homer, dancing with a belly dancer. It's this last one that gets him in trouble. He gives a copy to his friend Millhouse, un­der the condition that he cross his heart, hope to die, stick a needle in his eye, jab a dagger in your thigh, and eat a horse ma­nure pie. But Millhouse renigs and the photo winds up all over town, getting Homer in a whole mess of trouble with his wife, Marge. We realize what kind of kid Bart is when he has to stay after school and write lines on the chalk board in the opening credits every week. One week, he was writing, "I will not instigate revolution," then "I will not call my teacher hot cakes, ""I did not see Elvis," "Garlic gum is not funny," and finally, my favorite "I will not waste chalk." Bart shows his true intelligence in a game of Scrabble. He is able to use all of his let­ter to spell out Kwijibo, a big, dumb, bald­ing, North American ape ... with no chin, and a short temper; not in any way related to Homer, I'm sure. The Simpsons are quickly becoming the ideal family. What more could we want than a father who works in a nuclear power plant, a mother with a three foot blue bou­font hairdo, a daughter who is smarter than everyone else on the show, and finally, cute little Maggie who constantly sucks her pacifier and falls flat on her face. They should be adopted as the mascot of the year of the family here at Notre Dame. This classic family production is not available for everyone's viewing pleasure on campus this year, being that it is on Fox, but it draws a large crowd at the Knights of Columbus every Sunday night. Watch out!! Kwijibo on the loose!!  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 {219)-239-7471 Friday's Staff Sports Viewpoint Paul Pearson Ken Tysiac Lisa Eaton Colleen Cronen Brian Grunert Production Systems Cristina Oritz Cesar Capella Ad Design Lisa Eaton Deirdre Bell Quinn C. Satepauhoodle Anne McCarthy News Ctculatlon Jeanne Naylor Sandra Wiegand Bill O'Rourke Kelly McHugh Erin O'neill Matt Novak The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Frida,v except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

WEATHER 

FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
® (f) ~ ~ [llJ EZ] ~XXX~
' A 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a ASSOCiated Press Graph1csNet 

Yesterday's high: 85 Yesterday's low: 63 Nation's high: 102 {Borrego Springs, and Palm Springs, Calif.) 
Nation's low: 33 
(Burns, Oregon) 
Forecast: 

Partly sunny and contin­ued very warm today. Highs near 85. Partly cloudy and mild tonight with a 50 percent chance of thunderstorms. Lows near 60. Mostly cloudy and not as warm Satur­day with a 60 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Highs from 70 to 75. 
CAMPUS 

"The Groove," a popular campus band, will be Notre Dame Magazine, published by the Uni-producing a music video for one of their best-liked songs versity for Alumni and Friends, has won two awards in a ("Tears Rain") in Studio A at WNDU-TV this Friday from national general-interest magazine competition sponsored noon until 3:30 p.m. "Groove" band members traveled to by the Catholic Press Association, according to Richard "Chicago Trax" studios in Chicago to record the sound-Conklin, director of Public Relations and Information. A track which Notre Dame Senior and "Groove" band mem-summer 1988 issue cover by artist Greg Counch and her Lois Conrad will use to produce and direct the video designer Don Nelson on the topic of professions won a as the culmination of her student internship with WNDU-cover award, and an article by Father Robert Griffin, TV. If you would like to attend the production this Friday entitled "And One of Them Was My Brother" in the au­at WNDU. please contact Lou Pierce (Senior Pro-tumn 1989 issue was cited in the category of inter­ducer/Director, Special Projects), at 239-1616. view/profile. 
OF INTEREST 

North and South Dining Halls will be The Dan Anderson Ceramics Show Closed for lunch Saturday for the An Tostal Picnic on will be held at the Isis Gallery, 3rd floor Riley Hall, from Stepan Center Field, from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. 5-7 p.m. today. Anderson is Professor of Ceramics at 
Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville, and has 
Dillon Hall cordially invites the women of Notre taught and exhibited extensively throughout the United Dame and Saint Mary's to an outdoor mass on Sunday at States. 5:15p.m. The mass will be celebrated by Fr. Malloy in the courtyard between Dillon and Alumni. A post mass cook­out will follow in the courtyard between Dillon and South Yearbooks can be picked up at the Dome Dining Hall. There will be no 11 p.m. Dillon mass on office, 311 Lafortune, Thursday and Friday from 1-5 Sunday. p.m. 
Applications for the Cellar are now being A choral ensemble comprised of singers from accepted for next year. The Cellar has now become a Des Moines, Iowa and area Catholic parishes will present video store. Applications can be picked up in the store. a concert of sacred music at Saint Mary's College, Sat., and the deadline is Tuesday, May 1. April 28, at 8 p.m. in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 
NATIONAL 
Chief Justice William Rehnquist rejected a final appeal Thursday to delay start-up of the Seabrook, N.H., nuclear power plant in a decision that clears the way for the reactor to begin routine operations. Massachusetts Attorney General James Shannon along with the Seacoast Anti-Pollution League and the New England Coalition on Nuclear Pollution, will present the case against Seabrook to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia on Sept. 18. The chief argument against the plant all along has been that its location could trap thousands of coastal residents and tourists in a nuclear emergency. 
INDIANA The Indiana University Foundation 
records are subject to audit by state examiners and fall under the state's Public Records Law, Attorney General Linley Pearson said Thursday. 
Pearson said the not-for-profit foundation, which receives donations to benefit the university, also "receives substantial sums of money from Indiana University," according to the foundation's budget and financial statements. The Public Records Law allows the public to review records of public agencies in order to see how tax dollars were used. 
An efficiency study of the Indiana state government's health and human services programs has identified potential savings of more than $100 million a year, according to a draft report released Thursday. The preliminary report of the Government Operations Committee pointed to more than 100 changes in administrative practices, facilities and programs that could save the state money. That money could then be used to improve other services, officials said. A final version of the report is expected next week. 

A resolution urging a resumption of bargaining in the eight-week-old Greyhound bus strike and deploring strike violence was introduced Thursday in the House. Greyhound has refused to resume negotiations until a week passes without a shooting or bomb threat; the last confirmed incident occurred Monday. Talks broke down March 18 in Tucson, Ariz., and have been stalled ever since. The Amalgamated Transit Union, which has condemned the nearly 40 shootings and other violent incidents that have occurred, has said it was willing to resume contract talks at any time. 
WORLD 
Maoist Shining Path rebels in Peru gunned down two policemen Thursday who were eating breakfast at a roadside restaurant north of Lima, police said. The shootings set off a police manhunt in Lima's northern and western shantytowns. Dozens of buses were stopped and hundreds of people detained.The night before, acting on information that an attack was imminent, police rounded up more than 4,000 people in a similar sweep of Lima shantytowns. 
President Carlos de Gortari of Mexico. 
angered by the abduction of a Mexican citizen to the United States, told Vice President Dan Quayle on Thursday he wants to change the ground rules for cooperation in the war on drugs. Mexico has accused the United States of having a role in the abduction of Dr. Humberto Machain, who now is awaiting trial in Los Angeles in connection with the 1985 torture and murder of a U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration agent. 
page 3

Friday, April27, 1990 The ObseiVer 
Panelists discuss ways to add diversity to Oil spill test tankopens 

Catholl"c worsh1"p· emphas"1ze group prayer 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The rials Simulated Environmen­
' Interior Department will re-tal Test Tank near the Earle 
open, refurbish and manage Naval Weapons Station byBY JESSICA Pastoral Liturgy and two atmosphere within the service. a 2.5 million gallon oil spill 1991. ZIEMBROSKI scholars of African American Also he stressed the importance test tank at a Navy site in -"This is a milestone event News Writer liturgical concerns. of thanking God as being a fur­Leonardo, N.J., according to for oil spill containment and 
Discussion included the man­ther part of the liturgy. an agreement signed Thurs-cleanup research opera­
The role of diversity in the ner in which the panelists Mass was celebrated in day. tions," said Barry setting of Homan Catholic wor­thought a gospel liturgy should Stepan Center on Wednesday by The tank, which fell into. Williamson, director of the ship was the subject of a panel be celebrated and all agreed Archbishop Marino and a col­disrepair after closing in Interior Department's Min-discussion in Grace llall on that in was in prayer where all lection was taken for the Sister 1987, is the only one of its erals Management Service. Thursday where select panelists of the people participated. The Thea Bowman Foundation. kind in North America that He and Navy Rear Adm. discussed the issue of innova­question of the extent to which Bowman died March 30, a few accommodates full-scale oil Hobert Ailes, deputy com­tion in the liturgy. the Bible should be used in the days after she had been named cleanup equipment. Research mander of the Naval Sea 
Panelists included Archbishop mass was presented. the 1990 recipient of the Uni­there has produced most of Systems Command, signed Eugene Marino of Atlanta, Fr. Fr. Abram discussed the versity's Laetare Medal. Her what experts know about oil documents Thursday trans­Fernad Cheri, Fr. Bede Abram possibility of using more inter­support of black Catholic edu­spill response. ferring control of the facility of the Archdiocese of New Or­pretation as opposed to strictly cation was brought up and Officials hope to reopen to the Minerals Management leans. Elenor Bernstein. direc­nmding the Bible when preach­ideas for its improvement were the Oil and Hazardous Mate-Service for five years. tor of Notre Dame's Center for ing, and having a close family discussed. 
NO should eliminate ROTC 'militarism,' bishop says 
By CLAIRE ROBINSON iliary bishop of Detroit and the Jesuits working in United Gumbleton quoted Pope John "Most of the time we will be News Writer president of Pax Christi USA. States institutions to strive to­Paul II, saying that militarism organizing in such a way that Its existence is evidence that wards the same transforma­is "clearly hurtful to the poor; the poor will be killing the 
The University of Notre Dame Notre Dame is supporting the tion. it maintains an imperialistic poor," said Gumbleton. The needs to take a leadership role unfair status quo in the United monopoly over the goods (the fighting will be an attempt to in the attempt to end the arms States, a "corporate sin." ac­"An opportunity for dramatic United States) has amassed for maintain the status quo, which race in the United States, ac­cording to Gumbleton. change is present," said Gum­itself." favors the "slaves of posses­cording to Bishop Thomas Gumbleton explained that the bleton, in reference to the end Gumbleton said that in the sion" in our "civilization of Gumbleton. five Jesuit priests who were of the Cold War. For Notre next two decades, the greatest consumerism," he said. 
The most dramatic step killed in El Salvador were in the Dame to take advantage of this conflict for the United States 

whirh Notre Dame could take midst of supervising a plan to opportunity, he suggested a will be with third world coun­"I find it absolutely abhor­to express its disapproval transform the Jesuit schools in three part proposal. tries, as they attempt to get rent. .. I do not understand how would be to eliminate its ROTC Central America into schools control over their own re­we can support the militarism program. said Gumbleton, aux-"for the poor." He challenged Notre Dame should take a sources, which the U.S. now of our country," Gumbleton 

leading role in ending the arms claims. commented. lie expressed a race, come up with alternative hope that Notre Dame will help economic conversion proposals, The United States is already to "transform our earth into as and "disassociate itself clearly, preparing for this conflict, ac­close to the kingdom of God as dramatically, and completely cording to Gumbleton. The mil­possible," by playing a strong from the militarism of this itary is planning for "low in­part in the attempt to end the
J]]<!J[pi])~ 

country," by eliminating the tensity conflict," including sab­arms race and unjust mili­ROTC program, he said. otage and guerilla warfare. tarism in the United States. 
Chinese-Americ1n Restaurant & 



n~ Pro-lifers
Tony VanEs .....---,..... G R £AT 
Cocktail Lounce Authentic Szechuan. 


march in 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 
Love, 'YALL 



D.C. today
·r-:;;t.:;::..;:;....._, Lunches starting at_____ $3.45

Mom,Jen, 

Dinners starting at_____ $4.95 By PETER AMEND8Andy News Writer 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon.-Thurs. 11.30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 11:30 a.m. to 11p.m . .,...,.____.. Sun. & Holidays 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. 

ixie WayS., South Bend (next to Randall"s lnnl 272-7 The pro-life march in Wash· 
'""~.,.; 


~"" PUTTERS SINGLE WOODS 
c.~c.
..( 

$995

PRESIDENr,~ $500 
GOLF BALLS 


SINGLE IRON METALWOODS 
$5PERop $5 95 $2995 
/ 
ington D.C. will ptove that opinion polls suggesting Amer­ica is pro-choice are deceiving the public, according to Thom Gill, publicity chairman of St. Joseph County Hight to Life. 
St. Joseph County Hight to Life will sponsor a bus trip to Washington D.C. for the April 28th "Rally For Life '90," an event that is expected to draw hundreds of thousands of pro­life supporters from through­out the country, Gill said. 
A bus will leave South Bend at 10 p.m. today and arrive in Washington D.C. at 11 a.m. on Saturday. The march is sched­uled to begin at 2 p.m. and the bus will return to South Bend at 7 a.m. on Sunday. 
The rally is being sponsored by John Willke, president of National Right to Life. More than 800 coordinators across the country are organizing their local areas to participate in the rally. 

Speakers scheduled for the rally include Cardinal John O'Connor; James Dobson, president of Focus on the Fam­GOLF ily, a pro-life and pro-family organization; Congressman

BAGS 

Henry Hyde; and Willke. In ad­& dition, Mother Teresa of Cal­cutta will join the marchers "ifMORE her health permits," Gill said. 
GREAT 


PRICES 
t
ftAmerican HeartV Association 




Octane 
continued from page 1 

study said the agencies have not carried out testing since 1981. 
The report said both agen­cies generally support the GAO's conclusions and cite lack of funding and staff for their failure to enforce the labeling rules. Violators may be fined up to $10,000 for each instance. 
Joe Koach, executive direc­tor of the 60,000-member Ser­vice Station Dealers of America, said he was "deeply chagrined because this broad-brushes the integrity of America's gasoline marketers." 
Legitimate dealers would not risk their franchises with major oil companies by cheating, and the organization supports stringent enforcement against octane cheaters, Koach said. 
David Morehead, spokesman for the Petroleum Marketers Association of America, said there have been scattered re-
Friday, April 27, 1990 
ports of cheating but it is "absolutely deplored in the in­dustry." 
Nearly half of the states conduct their own octane tests, and mislabeling has been mini­mal where testing acts as a de­terrent, the GAO study said, 
But in seven non-testing states visited by GAO investiga­tors, problems were found, mainly at the distribution and retail levels, the report said. 
In 1989 Michigan tests con­ducted primarily in Detroit, 
51.9 
percent of stations had in­flated ratings averaging 2.3 octane points, and in St. Louis 

52.6 
percent had mislabeled an average of 2.2 points. the re­port said. 


In 1988 tests conducted by Oregon officials, 21.8 percent of samples were mislabeled and in Tennessee 22.2 percent, the GAO said. 
States that test generally consider any mislabeling of one-half point or more in the octane rating as a significant violation, the GAO said. 

Cheney 
continued from page 1 
ing and fielding the next gener­ation of aircraft. 
He said NATO faces "fewer enemy aircraft and a reduced ground threat" as a result of the dramatic changes sweeping Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. 
The defense secretary said that although the Soviet Union has consistently found a way to upgrade its military despite economic woes, "we expect the overall performance of their economy to have an impact on what they're able to build and deploy by the way of sophisti­cated n~w weapons systems." 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, APRIL 23 
2:45 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident re· ported the theft of his varsity letter jacket from his unlocked room. His loss is esti­mated at $120. 
3:20 p.m. A resident of O'Hara-Grace reported that someone removed her drivers license and some cash from her backpack while she was in the Huddle. The theft occurred between 2:30 and 3 p.m. 
9:30 p.m. Notre Dame Security stopped four individuals selling perfume without permission of the University. 
TUESDAY, APRIL 25 
11 a.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported 
the theft of her duffel bag and contents 
from outside her hallway. The theft oc­
curred sometime between 2 p.m. on 4/20 
and 7 a.m. on 4/21. Her loss is estimated 
to be $350. 
3 p.m. A resident of Pangborn Hall re· 
ported the theft of his locked bicycle from 
the bike rack of Pangborn sometime 
between 4/22 and 4/24. His loss is esti­
mated at $40. 
4:50 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident re­ported that his car had been vandalized while parked in the D-2 lot sometime be­tween 4/22 and 4/24. 
5:01 p.m. Notre Dame Police arrested a South Bend man for Driving While Intoxicated. The defendant was observed travelling 64 mph in a 30 mph zone on Edison Road. He was then transported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
AUEHTpt 11JUmAll) IWHEBS 
-~JIT/I'T..-.ioU.S.A. 
r....,_ilr·-...._..,..__
.... lon;----·~
___... __.,.__ 
--··""""-..,...---"''"'~ 
.,..--...---TIIIncloy.7pm­




---""··--T--. 
32!1 OOOEWAY NORTH • SOUTH EENO 
[219) 277-3355 215 S. 11TH STFEET • NILES 616 684-2080 




1990 INazz Competition 
11 :oo-4:00 p.m. Stepan Field 
He predicted a slip in the years in which the new systems will be deployed. 
Cheney said his proposed cut­back would lower the projected cost of the B-2 program from $7 5. 4 billion to $61.1 billion. But he said building fewer planes would drive up the cost of a single plane from about $530 million to more than $800 million. 
"We are in fact looking at targeting requirements," Ch­eney said, noting the obvious change in what would be deemed targets in Eastern Eu­rope since the collapse of the · Warsaw Pact. 
Cheney said he intends to cut the number of B-2 aircraft to be ourchased in the next fiscal year to two planes, from the five currently proposed at a cost in the fiscal 1991 budget of $5.5 billion. And the maxi­mum number of planes to be built during peak years of pro­duction would be reduced to 12 instead of 24, Cheney indicated. 

Conservatives on the House panel suggested that Cheney's plan for the B-2 will help the program survive on Capitol Hill. 
"It could make it more palat­able to members on defense," Rep. Ike Skelton, D-Mo., said following the hearing. 
Rep. Robert Davis, R-Mich., said Cheney has given Republi­cans "a very dependable posi­tion." 
Happy 21st Birthday, 

MftJk~~ 

Lots of Love 

Dad, Mom, Brett, Julie, and Lisa 
Friday, April 27, 1990 The Observer page-5 
Insect repellants recalled 



Colombian presidential
for effects on lab animals 

candidate assassinated
WASHINGTON (AP) -suits showing that the addi­
Two major brands of insect rnpellent and scores of others are being pulled from store shelves beeause an in­gredient used for decades damaged reproductive or­gans and caused tumors in tnst animals, government rngulators said Thursday. 
In all, 200 brands of insect rnpnllent, including Off and Cutter's, use the ingredient 2,3,4,5­Bis(2,butylcnc)tetrahydro-2­furaldehyde as an additive to rnpel flies that bite, said AI Heier, a spokesman for the Environmental Protection Agency. 
About 25 percent of all in­sect repellents on the market use the additive, known in­dustrially as R-11 although that name does not appear on the label of any consumer product. The labels, instead, carry the long technical name, Heier said. 
The manufacturer, McLaughlin Gormley King Co. of Minneapolis, provided the government with test re­tivH caused "adverse repro­ductivH effects, ovarian at­rophy and oncogenicity. or tumors," in laboratory rats and mice, I Ieier said. 

"These are the preliminary results; the studies aren't completed," he said. 
"The company has volun­tarily canceled their regis­tration on this product and informed all the users," Heier said. "They did the re­sponsible thing." 
Cancelling the registration means the company is asking fro revocation of its license to produce or sell a pesti­cide. 
Two of the major users of the additive are S.C. Johnson and Son Co. of Racine, Wis., which makes Off, and Miles Co. of Chicago, producer of Cutter's, Heier said. 
Both are notifying retailers to take the products off their shelves. 
Sixty-five other companies also produce repellents using H-11 under a variety of brand names. 
• .: . . . 
• 

=====··===== 
COLLEG~,
GRADUATE 
FINANCE 

PLAN 

Jordan's Auto Mall 
YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 609 E. Jefferson 
Mishawaka

YOU'VE EARNED IT. (219) 259-1981 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) -A man on a suicide mission pulled out a submachine gun on a crowded Colombian jetliner Thursday and assassinated a presidential candidate before dying himself in a blaze of pis­tol fire from bodyguards. 
A drug trafficking group called the Extraditables claimed responsibility for shooting former leftist guer­rilla chief Carlos Pizarro and said his name was picked in a drawing, the radio network Caracol said. 
The group, mainly from the Medellin cocaine cartel, said other candidates will be killed until traffickers are pardoned. 
Pizarro was the fourth Colombian presidential candi­date to be assassinated the past 31 months. Drug traffick­ers were blamed in all four deaths. 
An anonymous telephone caller said the names of three other presidential candidates were in the death lottery and that another candidate will die. 
Passengers screamed and ducked down in their seats as shooting broke out eight min­utes after the Avianca Airlines Boeing 727 left Bogota's El Do­rado international airport, the pilot, Capt. Fabio Munevar, said. 
The plane, en route to the Caribbean coastal city of Bar­ranquilla, where Pizarro was to campaign, returned immedi­ately to Bogota. 
No one else on the plane was hurt. 
The killer, 25-year-old Al­varo Rodriguez, apparently re­trieved the submachine gun from an airplane bathroom, Munevar said. 
He told Caracol Rodriguez went to the restroom at the back of the jet shortly after takeoff, then returned and took his seat two seats behind Pizarro. 
Minutes later he stood up and whipped out the weapon from his black leather jacket. 
Leaning over a passenger in the row in front of him, Ro­driguez pointed the gun at Pizarro's head. about a foot away, and opened fire. Police said only Pizarro was hit. 
Eight bodyguards accompa­nied Pizarro on the flight, Caracol quoted an unidentified campaign worker accompany­ing Pizarro as saying. 
Two men with submachinn guns were arrested at Barran­quilla airport. a police spokesman there told The As­sociated Press. They apparently were part of an assassination squad with orders to kill Pizarro if he survived the flight. Disturbances broke out in Bar­ranquilla to protest Pizarro's death, and three buses were burned, the spokesman said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
It was not immediately clear how the submachine gun was smuggled onto the plane. Air passengers boarding at Bogota are frisked and their belong­ings are searched. However, it is normal for presidential bodyguards to carry weapons, even on passenger flights. 
Caracol said in an uncon­
firmed report that five bullets 
smashed into the window near 
Pizarro, but none penetrated 
the thick, laminated plastic. 
The plane carried 91 pas­
sengers and a crew of six, an 
Avianca spokeswoman told The 
AP. 

Notre Dame alumni association initiated in Soviet Union by Peace Institute graduates 
Special to The Observer 

The University of Notre Dame, which has the largest network of alumni organiza­tions of any American college or university, has chartered an alumni club in the Soviet Union. 
The founding members of the club are three alumni of Notre Dame's Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies-Roman Setov, Vitaly Rassolov, and Oleg Vasilyev-and Dr. Yevgeny Ve-
The Following Message May Surprise You... 
Right Now ... Oldsmobile


KILLILEA 
Can put you into a 



1990 OLDSMOBILE 
Don't pay thousands for an ordinary car when 1st time buyers can buy a Cutlass Calais for only 



8995* 
Plus Factory To Dealer Incentives on other Oldsmobile Models allow for Great Deals on all Oldsmobiles 
KIL~LEA
rn l.lheNevvGeneranonor 
MichlanoooOids Pros Oldsmobile ~Odsrnot>ile 21 02 Lincolnway West, Mishawaka IN 46544 
(219) 255-9644 
*TAX, TITLE, DESTINATION CHARGE AND OPTIONS EXTRA ~ SALE PRICE OF $9995 MINUS $600 1ST TIME BUYER ~ REBATE FROM GMAC, MINUS $400 OF DEALER DISCOUNT 
likhov, vice president of the USSR Academy of Sciences and recipient of an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 1987. 
Setov, who was an interna­tional peace scholar at Notre Dame in 1987-88, is a political economist who now teaches at Moscow State University. lie is president of the new Notre Dame club of the Soviet Union. 
Vasilyev is studying aerody­namics and physics at Moscow Institute of Physics and Tech­nology, and Rassolov is a phys­ical chemist who will be mturn­ing to Notre Dame next year to study for his doctorate. Vasi­lyev and Rassolov studind at the Peace lnstitue during the 1988­89 academic year. 
Notre Dame has 209 alumni clubs, 17 of them outside the continental United States. It is not known if the Hussian alumni organization is the first of any American institution of higher learning. 

Week-end Liturgies at the Stepan Center: 
Saturday, April28 
5:00PM 

Presider: Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
Sunday, April 29 lO:OOAM 

Presider: Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. 
11:45 AM Presider: Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
,, 

-·---·Giant:~-~!!!!!-~~ 
DORM AND APARTMENT PILLOWS ON SALE 

at the 




SUPER SALE 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
SATURDAY, APRIL 28th 1OAM • 1 OPM SUNDAY, APRIL 29th 1OAM • 6PM 
*ALSO, special sale on NO BEACH BLANKETS 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m~~~~~~~~~~~~~------.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-• 

page 6 The Observer Friday, April 27, 1990 
Chamorro faces crisis because of Sandinistaarmy 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) -President Violeta Chamorro encountered a political crisis in her first full day in office Thursday for allowing the San­dinistas to retain temporary control of the army and secu­rity forces. 
Her decision to be her own defense minister but to allow Gen. Humberto Ortega to stay on as army chief drew fire from rebel leaders and split her coalition in the national legisla­ture. 
Ortega is the brother of former Sandinista President Daniel Ortega. 
Two ministers Chamorro had named to her Cabinet refused to serve as long as Gen. Ortega remained. Rebel leaders refused 
Gorbachev protested in Ural city 
MOSCOW (AP) -Demonstra­tors confronted Mikhail Gor­bachev over his crackdown against Lithuania during a visit to a Ural Mountains city on Thursday, activists said. One banner called the reformist 
president a hypocrite. 
Besides the public protests, Gorbachev alluded to a less vis­ible threat -potential frac­
tures in the Communist Party. He expressed alarm that a dozen local party members quit the day he arrived in Sverdlovsk, about 870 miles east of Moscow, the official news agency Tass reported 
Unocal reduces smog 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Unocal Corp., joining a growing con­tingent of oil companies with clean air ideas, announced Thursday it would offer to buy 7,000 older gas-eating cars in an effort to reduce smog in the Los Angeles basin. 
Unocal has allocated $5 mil­

I lion to purchase the cars, which must be at least 20 years old, and scrap them, said Richard
f 
Stegemeier, Unocal's chairman and chief executive. The plan would eliminate an estimated 6 million pounds of pollutant 
I gases, he said. Owners would be offered
[ 
l 
$700 apiece for the locally reg­istered junkers, Stegemeier 
said. 
"We want to take the heaviest polluters off the road and hand them over to a scrap yard, which will shred and recycle the metal," Stegemeier said. 
Unocal executives noted that pre-1971 vehicles pollute from 15 to 30 times more than 1990 models, with about 410,000 such jalopies and bombs regis­tered in the region. The pro­gram is scheduled to begin June 1. 
Another voluntary program, to take effect in July, offers 
free smog checks and emission control tune-ups for pre-1975 cars at participating Unocal 76 service stations. 
Such tune-ups could remove 17 million pounds of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and 
· reactive organic gases from the Los Angeles basin, which has the worst air quality problem in the nation, the Los Angeles­based oil company said. 
A spokesman for Southern California's powerful air quality agency voiced support for Unocal's program, which was seen by one industry analyst as a growing trend of "greening" among oil companies. 
to surrender their weapons to United Nations peacekeepers and talked about taking to the hills and renewing their war against the Sandinistas. 
A news conference scheduled for 11 a.m. by Mrs. Chamorro was canceled without explana­tion and she remained out of sight for most of the day. 
Journalists' telephone calls to the presidential office went unanswered. 
Immediately after her inau­guration Wednesday, Chamorro abolished the unpopular com­pulsory military service that forced youths into the Sandin­ista army to fight a nine-year war against the U.S.-backed rebels, known as Contras. 
She also announced plans to 

Thursday. 
Gorbachev said he traveled to the industrial city Wednesday to explain plans to move the centrally planned and sluggish Soviet economy toward a mar­ket-oriented system. 
One of the pro-Lithuania demonstrators, Tatiana Kare­lina, said she and other mem­bers of the political group Democratic Union mingled among 200 people in Sverdlovsk as Gorbachev spoke in the city's Youth Palace. 
As the Soviet president was leaving the palace, a Demo­cratic Union member unfurled 
I I I AlUMNI -SENIOR 


~CLUB 
TONITE: Closed ... sorry! SATURDAY: Live ...The final show of the year 
THE GROOVE 
It's a CURTAIN CALL 
a banner that read: "Gorbachev is a Political Hypocrite." A plainclothes officer immediately grabbed the banner from the protester and tore it up, Mrs. Karelina said in a telephone in­terview. 
Other banners read "No to the Economic Blockade of Lithuania!" and "Negotiations with the Lithuanian Government are the Only Way to Restore Justice!" 
Official Soviet media carried no reports of protesters. It was not clear whether Gorbachev saw the banners. 
depoliticize the army and re­duced it in size. With an esti­mated 150,000 soldiers, it is the biggest in Central America. 
Her transition team explained that her decision to retain Humberto Ortega and other Sandinista security officials was a temporary one. 
But this did not mollify her United National Opposition. The coalition of 14 parties ranges from Communist to conservative. UNO representa­tives in the National Legislature are split between those willing to go along with Chamorro, and those who demand Ortega's removal. 
An agreement signed last week by Chamorro's transition team, the Contras and the San­dinistas called for the Contras to voluntarily surrender their weapons to U.N. military peacekeepers and disband by June 10. 
Up to her inauguration, Chamorro remained vague about allowing Sandinista offi­cers to keep command of the army. The Sandinistas warned all along of renewed war if she made any attempt to alter the armed forces in any profound way. 
When word leaked that the Sandinistas would remain in control, the Contras balked at disarming. 
Hours after Chamorro's in­auguration Wednesday, Israel Galeano and Oscar Sovalbarro, commanding about 3,000 out 

Face it. Even though the sun may be shining and the beach is calling your name, sooner or later you'll probably have to make some money for schooL Wouldn't it be nice to work around your own schedule...to have the luxury of keeping a bigger piece of the summer to yourself? 
Personnel Pool Temporary Services believes in summer too! We can offer you long and short term assignments in your part of town ... positions to fit your type of skills-from clerical, word processing and data entry, to paralegal/legal support and light industriaL Our 9 Chicagoland locations are here to make your summer fun and prosperous. 
We also offer great pay, student J;>enefits, referral bonuses, and Safety Zone 1 in the northern village of El Destino, refused to disarm. There are a total of 9,000 Contra rebels inside Nicaragua. 
more!  So.. .it's your call, make it today! ~ (312) 781-9132 ~~ Pe~~~~ol.  
E/0/E  
~  

Like Zone 1, reports from the other four internationally monitored enclaves showed that few if any Contras had ac­tually surrendered their weapons. 
Chamorro's UNO coalition handily won elections on Feb. 25, ending 11 years of Sandin­ista rule and confrontation with the United States. Wash­ington accused the Sandinistas of endangering regional secu­rity with their close military ties to Cuba and the Soviet Union and imposed an eco­
-----·~~----··~ -~· ---~--------~~~ 
Friday, April 27, 1990 

The CbsetverA.A Scott 

Fun in the sun 
The Boathouse Blues Band and Balance played at Fieldhouse Mall yesterday. Amy Thomas, Tracie Birmingham and Megan Wade enjoy the sun and the music. 
~·e C'Uf· 1/a£1 
~e·et~~~~! 
The Observer page 7 
Contact with Hubble Telescope is re-established on second attempt 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Ground controllers cheered after re-establishing contact Thursday with the $1.5 billion Hubble Space Telescope through its main antennas. 
An attempt six hours earlier had failed. 
''I'm pretty relieved, l must say," said AI Boggess, Hubble project scientist at Goddard Space Flight Center in Green­belt, Md. 
Applause erupted at God­dard's Space Telescope Opera­tions Control Center when the high-speed contact was made Thursday afternoon. 
Controllers sent information to the telescope about its loca­tion, and "this basically im­proved the telescope's knowl­edge where it was, what its po­sition was," said Goddard's Dave Drachlis. They also widened the radio beam to cover a larger area around the two high-speed dish antennas. 
"We have confirmation that 
we have achieved communica­
tion with the Tracking and 
Data Relay Satellite through 
the high-gain antenna system," 
Drachlis reported. 

The antennas are the primary communications links for relay­ing scientific information to the ground. 
Controllers' lack of experi­ence with the new satellite was part of the problem, Boggess said. 
"This probably won't be the last time we have a problem," he said. "We'll keep working at it until we have all these things that need to be done, done. We'll get them right." 
The problem began Thursday morning when engineers tried pointing the two high-speed an­tennas toward two widely-sepa­rated TDRS satellites without success. Two low-speed anten­nas were working fine, but Boggess said they would be "excruciatingly slow" for send­ing data. 
There had been a com­munications outage with the telescope earlier. It lasted only 45 minutes and was due to human error. 
In addition, one of four "rate gyros," wheels whose spin maintains the telescope in a stable position, was discon­nected by an automatic system for a reason engineers were unable to explain immediately. But it was restored later and the stability of the satellite was unaffected. 
The problems won't delay the schedule for putting the tele­scope into use, said Jean Oliver, Hubble deputy project manager at Marshall Space Flight Center in Iluntsville, Ala. 
"Now we have to do an anal­ysis to make sure ourselves just what part of it worked and whether there are things we have to do differently in the fu­ture to make it continue to work," Boggess said. 

Senate refuses to cut Panama aid 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate late Thursday rejected an effort to cut the aid Presi­dent Bush is seeking for Panama and use it instead for a variety of domestic programs. 
Senators left the $420 million Panama aid intact when, on a 51-48 vote, they defeated an amendment by Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd, 0-W.Va. 
The Senate then labored late into the night as it tried to deal with dozens of proposed amendments, but prospects ap­proval of the overall aid bill, which included $300 million for the government of new Nicaraguan President Violeta Chamorro. 
"Chamorro's term may expire before we get the aid down there" cracked Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan. 
The bill still faces a veto threat from President Bush, who opposes a provision that would allow the District of Columbia government to use lo­cal funds to pay for abortions for poor women. Such pay-past two years. 
Byrd had proposed to slash Panama aid to $300 million and use the largest chunk of the savings for cleaning up De­partment of Energy nuclear plants. Other money would have gone for sanitation in Indian housing, agricultural disasters and a nutrition program for women and children. 
Capitalizing on the general unpopularity of foreign aid in Congress, Byrd cast his amendment as an effort to 

~::::::::::::::::::::::::.p~e~a~r~e:d~r~e~m~o~t~e•f~o~r~q~u~i~c~k~a~p~--~m:e~n~ts~h~a~v~e~b:e~en~b:an~n~eid~C~o~r~th~e~' make eharity bngin at horne. 
a ;~ 

Need Practice with interviewing while earning $50 as an interviewee? 
Come join us for our Interviewing Skills Workshop, June 18-22, July 23-27, or August 20-24 at our Center for Professional Education in St. Charles, Illinois. We are looking for students to participate as practice interviewees with our professionals who are developing their interviewing skills. 
As part of this one-day seminar, each Andersen Consulting recruiter will conduct 30-minute practice interviews with three different students. Each interview will be videotaped followed by a critique of the interviewer and interviewee. In addition to the practice interviews, a class will be conducted that covers the interviewing process, from resume writing to evaluating job offers. 
The ideal candidates for this workshop are engineering, computer science, business, and M.B.A. students entering their last year of school next fall. 
The workshop will take place each business day listed above from 8:00 a.m. to 5:30p.m. Participants should plan on arriving at St. Charles between 6:00p.m. and 8:00p.m. the evening prior. We will provide you with overnight accommodations and meals at our Center in St. Charles. Participants will be paid $50 for services as a practice interviewee. 
If you are interested in participating, please forward a cover letter, resume, and the date you would like to attend by May 1, 1990 to: 
Jane Nelson Andersen Consulting Interviewing Skills Workshop ANDERSEN 33 West Monroe Street 
CONSULTING
Chicago, Illinois 60603 

AKIHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C 

Selected candidates will receive a letter with details. 
Attention Freshmen 
Sophomores and 
Juniors 
Earn
.. ·­
while youlearn. 
Manpoww • looking for .tudent. in'*'-ted in earning grut pay. We offer flexible hour.. And nlu•ble tNining and buei..-..,...iMce. Plu• fNe uee of • per-.onal computer. 
If you're a filii-time .tudent. IDphemore or
•bova. with at 1eaat • a 
.......nc~ .... 
compumr familiar. Manpoww ....-you n 
a COLLEGIATE REP to promoc.tt. ..laeof IBM P...,..1 Bv-tem/ 
on oampua. 
Send ..-.me to: Lynette L..ttie 
c......... Rep Mllnp•_.lnc. 
320 w. L. ..... 
South llend. Ind. 48801 


--~ 

..-------------~--------­
page 9

Friday, April27, 1990 The Observer 
U.S. and USSR talk of trade pact Jewish settlers evicted from 
WASHINGTON (AI') -The to do business in the Soviet a top priority at their Malta Christian area in Jerusalem United States and the Soviet Union. summit meeting last December, Union reached basic agreement U.S. officials have predicted conclusion of the pact had been 
JEHUSALEM (AP) -The Moslems, the U.S. State Thursday on an economie paet that trade between the two jeopardized by the Soviet 
Supreme Court on Thursday Department, pro-Israeli that would normalize trade re­eountries could double or even craekdown in Lithuania. 
lobby groups and the govern­lations between the two super­triple over the next three years ordered the eviction of 
Jewish settlers who stirred ment of Greeee. powers for the first time in with a new trade agreement. After a debate within the 
an international protest by The Neot David settlement nearly a half century, a senior Private economists doubt that on
administration whether to 
moving into a building in the in Jerusalem was seen as 
part of a new settlementU.S. negotiator announced. assessment, given the numerous eaneel the eeonomic talks as a 

Christian quarter of 
Jerusalem's old city. drive by Prime Minister tative Julius Katz said he ex­economy. day that he had decided against U.S. Deputy Trade Hepresen­troubles plaguing the Soviet protest, Bush announeed Tues­Yitzhak Shamir, the hawkish leader of the right-wing Officials of the Greek 
imposing economie sanctions 
Orthodox Church, whichpected the agreement would be owns the building, were Likud Bloc who was chosenrtlady for signing at the May Last year, trade between the on the Soviets at the present 
30-.lune 3 summit between countries totaled $5 billion. time. 
dissatisfied because the Thursday to form a new President Bush and Soviet U.S. export sales, whieh totaled 
ruling allows maintenance government. Prnsident Mikhail Gorbaehev. $4.3 billion, reflected primarily Katz, who headed the U.S. 
workers and 20 guards hired grain shipments. Soviet sales in bargaining team, said negotia­
by the settlers to remain The State Department The agreement would clear this eountry, totaling $703 mil­tors still needed to work out 
until a lower court resolves called the Neot David the way for the Soviet Union to lion, included petroleum and the wording in four relatively 
the tenancy dispute. settlement "an insensitive obtain significantly lower tar­consumer items such as vodka minor areas. He said he be­
and provocative act." The iffs on its produets sold in and furs. lieved those issues could be 
The ehurch argues the set­U.S. government opposes all America while expanding op­While Bush and Gorbachev 
cleared up within the next few 
tlers are in the building settlements on land Israel portunities for U.S. companies both made a new trade accord weeks. 
under an illegal sublease. It captured in the 1967 war, said it would close all saying it is an obstacle to Christian shrines in the Holy peaeemaking with the Arabs. Land on Friday to protest the presence of the 150 The walled Old City is armed settlers. divided into Moslem, 
Christian, Jewish and 

The Jewish settlers moved Armenian quarters. Each into the 72-room St. John's sector contains holy sites Hospice on April 11. The and shrines, and the 
action brought protests slightest changes in the from Christian clerics, status quo have historically Palestinian Christians and led to violence. 
Condo Suite For Sale
*S70REWIDE 7APE SALE* 
Over 5884 Cassettes on Sale Now!! 
by owner
SI.OO gil all cassettes 
Adjacent to the ND Campus Enjoy your own unit of the Jamison Inn
Cassettes lor only $&.99: 
1404 N. Ivy at Edison Personal Comfort and Investment
Depacbe Mode Fleetwood Mac 
in a warm and efficiently
Sinead O'Conner Bonnie RaiU 
operated hotel
PubUc Enemy Robed Plant LiHie Feat Cowboy Junkies 
$84,500
Heart David Bowie 
contact Peter Hasbrook 517-631-3337 910 Holyrood
PLUS••• 
Midland, MI 48640
CDs on sale starting at $8.99 

11.11.11.11.11.11.11.11.11.11-L 
i THE CONGREGATION OF !
BLANK 7APE SALE 
I ~ HOLY CROSS i 
MaxeU XLIIS • 8 Tapes 
i~ ~ To/ough vision, work and prayer Holy Cross !
MaxeU Metal 100 •• 3 Tapas 
j 0 ~ pnests and brothers have ~ven life to the ~ iL U~ve!s1ty of Notre Dam.e, enriching our world I ~ w1th timeless values, canng service. !
AND REMEMBER••• 
= I
Tracks will meet or beat anyone's sale 
Holy Cross also serves avariety of ministries: i
price on anything we sell 
!Qi L.. schools, parishes, foreign missions, service to = 
1 ----------------··:••••••••••••••••••' ~ ~ thepoorandothers... ~ 
: $)2.00 OFF aJ : $1 .00 OfF aJ :!~ ~'"\ I 

I ~ ANY CD WITH ru I ~ ANY TAPE WITH ~ II~ For information: ­
; ·~ THIS COUPON 8 I ~ THIS COUPON o :,.= I 
K 0 I K 0 ·-Fr. fohn Conley, esc = 
I 1 Vocation Director 1
I EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS =J:I I EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS =R 1i Box 541 I Expires S/31/.90 I Expires 5/3·WO Jll: Jlll Notre Dame, IN 46556i
I "' (21.9) 239-6385 = L JL -ADWORKSI
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••·-----•n•u n•n•n•n•n•u•n•n•u•u• 
Viewpoint
page 10 Friday, April 27, 1990 
--, Ihe Obset:ver____ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Maneglng Ecltor Bu.I-Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager •••••••••Beth Bolger VIewpoint Ecltor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager•••••••••••• Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ....... .Joe Zadrozny Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systerna llgr ,_Bernard Brenninkrneyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director •••••••••••••••••••••Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director..•...••..••...... t.tchael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Newa Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS 

Campus date rape should be publicized at N D 
Dear Editor: of rape to preserve their image. showmg that the offender has 
I recently received a Many people here would proba-been punished severely-espe-University survey on bly say it is not even a problem cially if he is a student-sends male/female relationships at at Notre Dame-because we do females the message that re-Notre Dame. As someone who not hear about them. porting a date rape will make a has experienced these difference, and a message to relationships here for four By covering up date rape at males that the violation will be years, I share the University's Notre Dame, I refer to the punished. The only thing that concern. Unfortunately, I can-University's preference to keep should be kept secret in a date not take the administration's date rape incidents as quiet as rape is the identity of the vic­efforts to address the problem possible and deal with tim. Until the Office of Student seriously because of the way in offenders in their own way Affairs and the administration which it deals with the worst (which, at worst, might have a show that they value the indi­outgrowth of male/female rela-person dismissed from Notre vidual rights of female students tions-date rape. Dame for "disciplinary rea-at Notre Dame more than the 
sons"). ~ University's image, date rape 
For those who do not know, rapes do occur at Notre Dame. By covering up date rape­I know people who have been not reporting specific instances involved with date rape, and to student publications such as others who know people who The Observer, withholding in­have either raped or have been formation from publications­raped. Date rape happens at all the University creates the illu­rapes if they think it is a unique act, especially men whose date large, academic institutions. sion that date rape does not instance at Notre Dame; men rapes went unreported. Tim Flood Many share Notre Dame's ap­happen here. Women are dis­who know it happens are en­Publicly admitting when a St. Edward's Hall proach of covering up instances couraged from reporting date couraged to commit the violent date rape has happened, and Apri/25, 1990
•

Rampant homophobia represents 1gnorance and bigotry 
Dear Editor: I have spent several hours at­tempting to write a calm, rea­soned and logical response to counter yet another form of bigotry. I finally gave up and decided to confront face on the anger I feel--anger which has been late in coming and is, I feel, fully justifiable. I am simply sick and tired of the rampant homophobia of this campus (and country and culture), and of the systematic and relentless efforts of the self-appointed guardians of morality to impose their "lifestyle" on the whole of cre­ation. I would like to be able to say that I am indifferent to the ravings of homophobic individ­uals who are quick to point out that they find our behavior to be "repulsive" or "disgusting" (or, in the more refined, if less  honest, words which usually make their way into print, "morally unacceptable," or worse, "unnatural"). But, un­fortunately, it's not quite that simple. As Alva Lewis' sad but revealing letter illustrated (The Observer, April 9), it is not that easy for a repressed minority to develop a positive self-image in the face of continuous put­downs, both overt and subtle. One way to begin to do so, however, is to develop an awareness of and appreciation for the achievements of those who have come before us. Unfortunately, the level of ig­norance regarding homosexuality is astounding. This is probably always the case when dealing with socially­sanctioned prejudices and hatreds, but is made worse in our case by our near invisibility  (How many Notre Dame students operate under the false belief that they don't know any gay people? Maybe close to 90 percent! Ten percent are aware of the fact that they know at least one!) Few people, gay, straight, or bisexual, know about the achievements of gay people-­neither of the accomplishments of those who have achiloved greatness according to the usual worldly standards, (and who were often forced to re­main in the closet in order to be accepted in this hostile envi­ronment); nor of the lives of the many individuals who managed to remain true to themselves and to live dignified and honest lives despite the odds. The only stories we are likely to hear are of those whose lives have been damaged in some way, and these stories are usu­ ally told to reinforce negative stereotypes rather than to in­crease understanding or to bring change. As the history of the struggles of various racial and ethnic groups makes clear to us, a knowledge of a people's history is very important in the struggle to build a more just world. Maybe that's why Mr. DelliCarpini seems so anxious to deprive us of it. How ironic that DelliCarpini should justify his attempt to ban our freedom of speech by arguing that GLND/SMC's ads are analogous to those of a group who might want to use The Observer's pages to propa­gate racism. Our writings are much more analogous to those brave individuals-­Catholics and others--who stood up to racists in the not-very-distant "past" when overt verbal at­ tacks on racial minorities were not only socially acceptable, but socially required of all those who wanted to maintain their social standing in white society. Is it too much to hope that in the not-too-distant future your. average decent individual will have come to recognize the truth of Rev. William Sloane Coffin's words: "Just as 'the black problem' turned out to be a problem of white racism, just as 'the woman problem' turned out to be male sexism, so 'the homosexual problem' is really the homophobia of many heterosexuals who just won't grant God the right to a more pluralistic creation. It's bigotry, pure and simple." Carol Stuart Graduate student April 22, 1990  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  


\ 
CFiiAT£3 MY 5QUAI?£3 FOI< 

lH£3 AII?S QUI/..T PR1JJECT. I 
IUNCW

"ANfJY UPPIN­
MON&YFOR 
'Sometimes too much to drink is

am; 194f!H990. 
7Ht FA8f?JC..

L£T/11& S&/3. 
HEN£3veR. 
barely enough.'. 

(,(JHIJ:T''5 IT 
BOTHCR&/?TH£3-\ 
5AY?' 
N£316H801<S.'' 
I I 
Mark Twain 

Viewpoint
Fr~ay,Apri127, 1990 page 11 
New wave of socialism stifles freedom 

Communism is an idea whose time has gone. The world-wide discrediting of communist ide­ology has sent doctrinaire Left­ists nverywhore in search of nnw ideas. 
The most popular new idea has turned out to an old one: socialism. Communist parties from Ethiopia to Eastern Eu­rope are changing their names to things like "Socialist Party" and "Social Democrats." The nnw popularity of socialism calls for some comment. 
First, a basic working defini­tion of socialism is necessary. In socialist countries, the gov­ernment owns some or all of the major industries (depending on the degree of socialism), provides free medical care, low cost housing and food, very generous unemployment, insur­ance and social security bene­fits, and taxed the heck out of evnrybody to pay for it all. 
As anyone with a grounding in conventional economics will quickly point out, government ownership of industry reduces eornpntition and output; lack of profit motive stifles initiative; 
In My Opinion By Rick Acker 
and central planning docs bad things to consumer goods pro­duction. In short, socialism isn't as effective an economic system as capitalism. But effi­ciency isn't the central aim of socialism. Rather, socialism tries to achieve economic equal­ity and security. 
Socialism began as a re­sponse to the gross economic inequality and insecurity of un­regulated capitalism in the nineteenth century. Fortunes could be made or lost overnight. A family could be middle elass one day and in poverty the next. Factory own­ers often became very rich, while many of their employees remained very poor. To cure this, theorized the socialists, the factories should be publicly owned, the national economy should be centrally planned, and the wealth should be redis­tributed (hence the socialist 
Garbage disposal belongs in private sector 
By Richard lachetta 
and Paul Babka 
Throughout the past week, 
much has been said about 
environmental issues. We would 
like to focus on one of those is­
suns, and offer a solution that 
we believe would help the prob­
lem. 
The issue is garbage disposal. 
The problem is that we are fill­
ing up our land fills at an 
alarming rate, oft1~n with non­
hiodegradabll~ materials such 
as Styrofoam. People, it is often 
charged, do not earn enough 
about the environment to cut 
down their garbage output. or 
to consider the kinds of things 
that tlwy throw away. They 
would rather throw out dispos­
able dishes, cups, diapnrs, bot­
tles, etc. than give the necessary 
time and money needed to wash 
or rncycle non-disposable ones. 
It seems that efforts which 
appeal to people's social 
conscinnce have only had 
marginal effects. 
We believe that thn best way 
to revers1~ the current process 
is to take garbage collection 
and dumping out of the public 
sector and place it in the pri­
vate sector. Currently, most 
garbagn pickup services are 
provided by the eity or county 
to all residents. The dumps also 
are owned and run by local 
governments. The money that 
funds thf~se operations are pro­
vidl~d by taxes. 
The advantage of moving all 
thnse functions to the private 
sector would have the effect of 
tremnndously reducing the 
amount of garbage output by 
appnaling to everyone's innate 
desire to help themselves: it will 
save them money. A second ad­
vantage is that the system will 
bneome more fair; the people 
who throw away more will have 
to pay more than the people 
who throw away less. 
Here's how it it will work. The dumps will no longer be 
owned by the city: every square meter will have to be purchased by someone. The dump owners will, of necessity, be forced to adopt the policy of charging dumpers according to the vol­ume of the garbage to be dumped. This is because, in ad­dition to costing more money to process more trash, the trash takes up valuable space. When the existing space is filled up, the dump owner will be forced to buy more land or go out of business. Those costs will be rnllected in the price per cubic centimeter of garbage. 
Since the dump owners will have to charge according to the amount of the garbage, so will the garbage collectors, and hence the more people throw away, the more they will be re­quired to pay. People are paying for garbage collection now, but those who are extremely wasteful pay no more than those who throw out very little. 
People will work to minimize their costs by minimizing their garbagn output. They will move away from the disposable items in favor of the reusable ones. A glass that can be used thou­sands of times saves thousands of throwaway charges that the option of paper cups would in­cur. People who use disposable bottles will not only have to pay more at the checkout line, but will now face charges when they throw the bottles out as well. 
For the same reasons, people will use more recyclable prod­ucts in order to avoid the throw away costs. In most cases, the recyclable goods, such as glass soda bottles and newspaper, are bought back by the manu­facturer, so people will be sav­ing money by avoiding disposal costs and making money through recycling. This will be­come even more true in the fu­ture as our resources diminish. So as demand increases for these kinds of products, the producers of goods, acting in accordance with the same profit maximizing motives, would restructure their product lines more favQrable towards products that are recyclable or contained in recyclable packag­ing 
It is also worth noting that, since these beneficial conse­quences are tied to disposal costs, their effectiveness will automatically increase as dumping space becomes more scarce. The end result would be to move much closer to the situation in which people will throw away only that which is unavoidably disposable. 
Richard lachetta  and Paul  
Babka  are  Senior  Electrical  
Engineering majors.  

policies which I mentioned ear­lier). Most socialists admit that things aren't as bad today as they were a century ago. How­ever, they claim that the basic evils are still present and that a socialist solution is still neces­sary. 
The problem is that the so­cialist version of economic jus­tice tends to interfere with other kinds of justice. It has been commented that socialism and freedom mix as well as oil and water. There is a lot of truth in this comment. A prominent Norwegian busi­nessman told me, for example, that he was denied permission to start a travel agency in Norway (where the Socialist Workers Party is in control) because "it is not in the interest of the government's economic plans." More disturbingly, the only television station in Nor­way is nationalized and has an amazing tendency to say what the government wants. These intrusions on personal freedom are fairly small, and Norway is still very much a democracy. Nonetheless, the intrusions are present and are clearly socialist and of citizens of Eastern Eu­in origin. rope today. After achieving 
These problems are not freedom all of these peopln unique to Norway. One hears were "far more insecure politi­similar complaints from India cally and economically... but to Sweden and from China to still valued this thing: not being Tanzania. In fact, the more so­under the pers.?nal power of cialist a country is, the less another person. freedom its citizens have. 
Still, fewer people starve un-The world has not only re­der socialism than capitalism. jected communism, but has em­It is just as difficult to square braced "a belief in the dignity economic equality and security of the individual, in his freedom with capitalism as it is to to make the most of his capaci­square freedom with socialism. ties and opportunities accord­Crudely put, we have choice be-ing to his own lights, subject tween a guaranteed free mind only to the proviso that he not and a guaranteed full stomach. interfere with the freedom of 
It is heartening to libertari-other individuals to do the ans like myself to see that peo-same." (Nobel Prize winning pie from all times and all places economist Milton Friedman in consistently choose the free his book Capitalism and Free­mind over the full stomach. Ac-dom). This belief will make it cording to Harvard sociologist difficult for socialism to do any Orlando Patterson, "whether better than communism. As one rightly or wrongly, people Hungarian recently wrote, throughout history... have "Economic 'equality and secu­enormously valued this thing, rity' are for sheep and cattle. personal freedom." This was Freedom is for men and true, says Patterson, of slaves women." in ancient Greece, ancient Rick Acker is a first year law Rome, and the American South; student and a regular of serfs in Medieval Europe; Viewpoint columnist. 
LETTERS 

Limited affirmative action needed 
Dear Editor: 
Rick Acker's column (The Observer, April 18) rightly crit­icizes affirmative action pro­grams that fail to help those for whom they were intended. The problem, however, is not with the idea of preferential hiring and promotion, but with the way it is currently prac­ticed. Affirmative action for blacks and Native Americans is justified to make up for past crimes, crimes not of discrimi­nation, but of kidnapping and enslavement (for blacks) and of land confiscation and forced resettlement (for American Indians). 
In my opinion, these are the only two peoples to qualify for preferential treatment. As for other minorities, they have freely chosen to come to America and have no claim on this status. The issue is not skin color--Irish, Poles, Jews, Hispanics, Asians, etc., have all been discriminated against. They did not, however, suffer horrendous crimes sanctioned by the government, thus enti­tling them to compensation to­day. 
The reason why current pro­grams of affirmative action are not working is simple--all mi­norities are lumped together. With even women added to this roster, the "minority pool" has become a majority ocean, leav­ing Native Americans and blacks no better off than be­fore. As it stands, the great­great-granddaughter of a slave owner is accorded the same preferential treatment as the great-great-grandson of his slave. Is this fair? Does this adequately compensate for past wrongs? Obviously not. The so­lution is to limit affirmative action to the two groups men­tioned. 
Acker criticizes affirmative action because it is itself dis­criminatory. Yes, but not all discrimination is wrong. Take discriminatory hiring and pro­motion on the basis of family ties for example. Is it wrong for a father or uncle to give ju­nior an advantage over his peers? No, it is expected. Or, in a closer analogy to affirmative action: Is it wrong for a corn­pany to give an advantage to the son or daughter whose par­ent dies because of the com­pany's past negligence? No, and again I think it is expected. 
Still, some may argue that descendants should not bear the consequences for actions done over 100 years ago. After all, for many Americans, their ancestors only came to America in this century. How are they responsible for slavery and theft of Indian land? 
The answer is that collective injury and guilt, with their long-term effects, claims and obligations do carry through for generations, until past wrongs are somehow righted or forgotten. It is not the case of isolated crimes by individu­als, but of prolonged violation of human rights by a nation. Affirmative action, limited in the way suggested, is a just way for America to say, "I am sorry, allow me to make it up to you." 
Michael Scott Class of'88 April23, 1990 

The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the more concise the piece, the less we will have to edit it to fill our space. 


BAR SCENE 

Boathouse Blues Band, Bridget's 
Southside Denny, Center Street; 9:30p.m. 
ON-CAMPUS Sed Cats and The Pickup Band, folk music at the Grace Coffeehouse, 9 p.m. The Fantasticks, Washington Hall, 7:30p.m. Tickets are $3. 
BAR SCENE 

Southside Denny, Center Street, 9:30p.m. 
The Groove, Alumni-Senior Bar 
Corvallis Calling, McCormick's, 10 p.m. 
ON-CAMPUS Nazz Festival, battle of the campus bands, Stepan Field, 11 a.m.-4 p.m. Hawaiin Club Annual Luau, South Dining Hall, 6:30-9 
p.m. Tickets are $8 at LaFortune. Latin Expressions Talent Show, singin, dancing and skits, Library Auditorium, 7 p.m. Tickets are $2. The Fantasticks, Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $3 at LaFortune. The Color of Dance, Patchwork Dance Company, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 7:30p.m. Tickets are $4. 
John DiDiego and Friends and Rachel Cruz and Judy Hutchinson, acoustic guitarists at the Grace Coffeehouse, 9 p.m. 
SUNDAY ON-CAMPUS Spring Celebration Style Show, ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 2 p.m. ND Brass Ensemble, Washington Hall, 3 p.m. Free admission. 
NOTRE DAME Friday "License To Kill," Cushing Auditorium 8 p.m. "Scandal," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30, 9:45p.m. 
Saturday "Scandal," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30, 9:45 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "I Love You to Death," 7 and 9 p.m. "The Guardian," 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Wild Orchid," 7:45 and 9:45p.m. "The First Power," 7:15 and 9:15p.m. "Spaced Invaders," 7:10 and 9:20p.m. "Driving Miss Daisy," 7:40 and 9:40 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "Pretty Woman," 7 and 9:45p.m. "Lord of the Flies," 7:20 and 9:20p.m. 
"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles," 7:30, 9:40p.m. 

ummer 

Fatniliar faces, sequels pJ hot box-office entertaintnent in l! 
Special to the Observer 

oviegoers will be relieved to hear that only three out often 
movies so far slated for release this summer are sequels. Don't cringe at those three, though-they ought to be as good as the originals. 
On the wake of his success with "Look Who's Talking," Bruce Willis returns to the screen as John McClane in "Die Hard 2: Die Harder." He had international success with the role in the original film, and should pull through in this one as well. 
"Die Hard 2" is set in an in­ternational airport where spe­cial forces, led by a maniacal former U.S. military officer, at­tempt to intercept a Central American drug dealer. Their plans are thrown slightly out of whack when McClane arrives. This should be good, but hope­fully this will be the last one-it could turn into a "Rambo"-type series, and America could be viewing "Die Hard 6: Please Die This Time." 
The 1988 hit "Young Guns" has already led to a television series, and now it has a sequel, aptly titled "Young Guns 2." Three out of the eight actors from the original return, in­cluding Emilio Estevez as William H. Bonney, a.k.a. Billy the Kid. Christian Slater and Alan Ruck (Cameron in "Ferris Bueller") are two of Billy's new gang who will be familiar faces. 
"Young Guns 2" picks up 
where the original left off: Billy 
and his fellow rebels are now on the run. 
What could prove to be one of the best horror films of the summer is "The Exorcist III: Legion." This is supposedly the official sequel to "The Exor­cist"-the first sequel was not written by the author of the original, but this one is. Ac­cording to the writer, the de­mon goes on forever, but how, and in what form? 
This film starts right where "The Exorcist" ended-a demon has cast itself into the body of a young priest. The filll) has elements of a detective story, a theological puzzle and a study in terror. The men who worked on "Star Wars" and "Raiders of the Lost Ark" are on the pro­duction team, so the effects should be great. 

Andrew Dice Clay is the new filmmaker's favorite for the summer. He will have his own concert movie, and in "The Ad­ventures of Ford Fairlane" he is cast as a private investigator who works in the music indus­try world. It is a comic thriller that boast a star-studded cast: Wayne Newton, Prescilla Pres­ley, Robert Englund ("Nightmare on Elm Street"), Vince Neil (Motley Cruel. Sheila E., and even Tone-Loc makes a cameo appearance. 
After the death of a rock singer, Clay becomes involved in a maze of corruption, double-crosses, blackmail and murder. "Ford Fairlane" was directed by the man responsible for the fourth and most profitable entry in the "Elm Street" series, "The Dream Master," so a quality film can pretty much be expected. 
Arnold Scwarzenegger re­turns to the screen in "Total Recall," directed by Paul Ver­hoven, who did "Robocop." It is set in 2084 A.D. and is an ac­tion comedy of self-discovery. 
The heartthrob movie of the season will probably be "Air America," with Mel Gibson and Robert Downey, Jr. These two are renegade pilots with the world's most secret airline, Air America, whose motto is "anything, anywhere, anytime." 
"Flatliners" tells the tale of five medical students who play with a life-after-death experi­ment and become individually faced with the sins of their past. The cast includes Keifer Sutherland, Julia Roberts ("Pretty Woman") and Kevin Bacon. 
The movie industry probably has a few other potential blockbusters that they are keeping under wraps until the last minute. There should be 

enough good movies to keep people busy when they get tired of the sun and the beach. 
r-------------..---~---~-----------------~~~----­
~~DI.lsenEr--­


RISH EXTRA 
Bookstore Basketball XIX Friday, April 27, 1990 
Elite Eight begin quest for Bookstore XIX title 
Griggs keys Just Chillin' over Senior Bar; other top seeds advance to final weekend 
By GREG GUFFEY 
got an easy 21-16 win over Sports Editor Shoot Or Get Off. 
Derrick Johnson scored seven .lust Chillin' is hot. points to lead Adworks, and Thn 14th-ranked seed Kevin Keyes and Cedric Figaro 
knocknd off third-sended Senior added five baskets each. Bar 21-19 Thursday afternoon to advancn to thn Final Eight. "I think we played OK," said 
Hay Griggs seored nine points Jim Dolan, who scored two for Just Chillin', a hmm with points for the winners. "We few big names and even less didn't play great defense. We weognition before Thursday's threw the ball away a lot. We victory. have to play fundamentally 
sound basketball." "It really wasn't an upset," Griggs said. "We were just un­Jim Dolan Expresso Pizza will play 
lward of before the game. It Adworks after winning 21-18 was th1~ best game that we've kets each for the winners. Thursday over The Gauchos. all played." "I think our defensive inten­Kevin Warren hit 10-of-21 
Said teammate .Joe Fulton sity has kept us in every game," shots to key Expresso, and who seornd two hoops, "We Gumbert said. "I think we can Mark Granger tossed in four thought they (Senior Bar) were play with anyone because of points. Pete Digiovanni scored onn of tlw better teams in the our defense. We ran our offense nine hoops in a losing cause for tounwy. We also felt we were well today. but we've got to The Gauchos. undNratnd. We played together make more than one pass wnll as a team today." again~t the man-to-man de­Jake Kelchner hit 6-of-12 
fense. shots and Eric Jones hit 5-of-9 
Just Chillin' might have to to pace Tequila White Lightning play tlw wmainder of the tour­Martinez, who works in the to a 21-13 victory over Rubber namPnt without big man Kevin catering department at Notre Cement II. After Rubber Cement Hue!, who hurt his ankle in Dame, is a force inside for II took an 11-9 halftime lead, Thursday's win. Hue! scored Hemember It's Denver. He was Tequila White Lightning con­three points against Senior one of the leading rebounders trolled the second half. Bar. in NAIA as a senior at Bethel 
Just Chillin' will play College last season. Dorsey Levens scored eight Hcnwmber It's Denver in to­Malicious Prostitution con­points to key Soul Sonic Force day's quarterfinals in a game tinued its quest for a second in a 21-14 triumph over The that should be wide open. consecutive title with a 21-15 Hawk Will Never Die. Martin 
victory over Fast Break. Somerville added six points for 
"Our eonfidenee is there," Joe Scott scored six points to the winners. Griggs said. "In basketball, load a balanced attack for who knows what can happen?" Malicious Prostitution, while Sweet Scotty P and the 
Hernember It's Denver Jim Flynn tossed in five hoops. Dwarfs edged C.J.'s Pub 21-19 downed Clockwork Orange 21-behind the six points of Phil 16 behind the seven points of Adworks, probably the Hanen. Former Notre Dame Greg Gumbert. Bob Kloska and strongest challenger to center Scott Paddock scored Jody Martinez added six bas-Malicious Prostitution's title, five hoops for the winners. 
Untamed Lyons upset Hoosier Lawyers; varsity athletes dominate other contests 
By CHRIS COONEY clinched the win. Theresa in the only true blowout of the Assistant Sports Editor Zombek paced the Lyons attack day. They trounced We're Clue­with nine points and 18 re­less 21-2. 
In what was quite possibly bounds. "We like to get the ball out the longest Bookstore game "We were just a little more and run it and we don't spend a ever recorded, Untamed Lyons well-rounded than they were," lot of time setting up plays," upset fourth-seeded Hoosier said Mo Nelligan, a former said fast Break's Mary Simon. Lawyers 30-28 in women's Irish walk on who contributed In almost exact opposition to Bookstore action Thursday. seven baskets and eight boards that style, Fast Break's oppo­
The game, which lasted over to the Lyons' effort. nents in the quarterfinals, Hey an hour and a half, pitted part Untamed Lyons next plays the Loppo, What's That on Your of the Interhall team from Meta Mucils, who won via for­Neck? won their game by utiliz­Lyons Hall against a squad of feit, 9-4, over 4 Girls who Like ing set plays retained from law students favored to repeat to Score From Behind and One their lnterhall championship. last year's trip to the Final Under 4'8", after a player on 4 The team. which defeated Four. With only Kathy Leyden Girls severely sprained her an­Chickens Have Lips 21-14, con­
returning from last year's kle. sists entirely of members of the team, Hoosier Lawyers had to In the battle of the Saint Breen-Phillips squad that cur­contend with a well-balanced Mary's students, four members rently reigns as lntHrhall cham­attack from a Lyons team that of the Belles varsity squad pions. has had extensive experience matched up against one an­In Thursday's other games, playing together. other. Heavy B and the Girls C.J.'s Gals beat Shoot to Kill 
"They had played together earned yet another upset as 21-8 and Murray's Madness before and it showed," said the they downed seventh-seeded downed 3 to Bounce and 2 for Lawyers' Kathy Barron, a Lethal Weapon V 21-17. the Boards 21-10. Cathy former Notre Dame varsity A burst by Heavy B at the be­Emigholz and Mia Tettenborn player and co-captain of the ginning of the second half paced third-seeded C.J.'s with 1988 team. "All five of the girls spurred the comeback from a eight and seven points respec­are solid players and they did a 10-5 deficit. Heavy B must now tively. Murray's won its game super job of pounding it to face 5 Girls Who Just Do It, the by taking advantage of its op­their girls inside." second seeded squad of defend­ponent's foul trouble, sinking 
With the game tied at 21-all, ing champion Sandy Botham. eight free throws in the second the two teams volleyed the lead Five Girls defeated 4 Dunks and half. back and forth in the 80-degree a Dink 21-10 Quarterfinal action begins heat until a free throw by The number one seed, Fast today at 4 p.m. on Stepan sophomore Meg Hobday Break, used that exact weapon Courts 7 and 8. 




--------~--.._..__..______.....,___, 
IRISH EXTRA 
Friday, April 27, 1990 

The Observer I L.A. Scott 
Women's Bookstore Basketball will resume today on Stepan courts with the Elite Eight. 
Last season belonged to Joe S~o~ 
By FRANK PASTOR ber of first-half fouls, sending claim to the champiOnship m a Associate Sports Editor their opponent to the line ear· tournament t~at began nearly a lier than any of its predeces· month ago with 672 teams vy­

Bookstore Basketball XIX 
The Elite 

Womeri's Final 
1:00 

AII·StarGame 2:()0 
Women's Bookstore Basketball XIX 

l 


Throughout Bookstore Basketball XVIII, Adworks All­Stars dodged accusations that they bullied officials, not through verbal or physical abuse, but rather by their pres­ence alone. 
The tables turned on Adworks Sunday afternoon at Stepan Center when they met Malicious Prostitution and its touring entourage in the tour­nament final. Adworks was whistled for an unseemly num­sors. 
Malicious Prostitution used this momentum to its advan­tage in derailing Adworks' quest to repeat as Bookstore champions 21·19 behind Joe Scott's 11 points, all to the de· light of an upset·hungry crowd. 
Trailing 19-18, Malicious Prostitution pulled the rug out from under Adwork's title hopes by rallying to score three consecutive baskets to stake its ing to be No. 1. 
Down the stretch, Malicious Prostitution looked to the hot Scott, whose jump shot never strayed from its intended path to the hoop. Scott was clearly the deciding factor in the game and was rewarded for his out­standing play with the tourna­ment MVP award. 
This article originally ap­
1989peared in the A1ay 1, Observer. 
ROSTERS 
Women's Rosters 
Fast Break 
Julie Radke Amy Baranko Sue Medley Kim Garrison Mary Simon 

Hey Loppo, What's that on Your Neck? 
Chris Churchill Lora Mangan Heather Murphy Carol Elliot Kim Smith 
Meta Mucils 
Molly Mahoney Mary Beth Cook Laura Brown Amy Bundens Kristin Kirwin 
Untamed Lyons 
Theresa Zombek Debbie Niichel Jen Slosar Meg Hobday Mo Nelligan 

5 Gins Who Just Do It 
Sandy Botham Missy Byrne Liz Nolan Jill Bodensteiner Rachel Hall 

Heavy B and the Gins 
Linda Garrett Kim Holms Betsy Menne! Beth LaPres Lisa Juscik 
Murray's Madness 
Sarah Muzzarelli Vicki Nadzam Kelly Cook 
M.A. O'Neill Erin Murray 
C.J'sGals 
Noreen Wolohan Molly Lennon Liz Toohey Cathy Emigholz Mia Tettonborn 
Men's Rosters 
Malicious Prostitution 
Joe Scott Pete VanDyke John Bergman John Mundo 
Jim Flynn 
Adworks 
Tony Rice Jim Dolan Cedric Figaro Derrick Johnson Kevin Keyes 
Soul Sonic Force 
Dorsey Levens Bryant Dabney Martin Somerville Keith Sallis Jamere Jackson 
Tequila Ughtning 
Eric Jones Brian Ratigan Mike MacKinnon Shannon Cullinan Jake Kelchner 
Expresso Pizza 
Kevin Warren Kevin Kade Todd Wagenblast Mark Granger Frank Becker 
Sweet Scotty P 
Scott Paddock Pete Parten Tom Eck Phil Rauen Marty Falkenberg Remember It's Denver Craig Brummell Tom Lupone Jody Martinez Bob Kloska Greg Gumbert 
JustChillin' 
Joe Fulton Ray Griggs Dave Clar Kevin Ruel Rick McGillicuddy 


---~---­
Friday, April 27, 1990 IRISH EXTRA 


.... 
. 
'if' 
.
,;·,, 
..... {:/,1

~:~~: 
·.. '­
'"" ><;*~~~ 

---.. -~ ---~-~-~-~----~--~~----~-~------­
~-­
IRISH EXTRA 
Friday, April 27, 1990 
-
Adworks should win in convincing fashion 
The Bookstore commission­ers could save everybody a lot of time and trouble if they just awarded this year's title to Adworks and forgot about playing the games. 
No team in this year's tour­
Iney has been as dominant as Adworks. That squad of Cedric Figaro, Tony Rice, Jim Greg GuffeyDolan, Kevin Keyes and 

Sports Editor

Derrick Johnson has raced through this year's tourney with ease, its closest encounter a 21-16 win over Shoot Or Get Off on Thursday. 
Derrick Johnson could play on many college teams in the nation. He can run and jump with anyone in this tourney, maybe anyone in the country. His quickness is one of the keys for this team. 
Cedric Figaro has the ability to outmuscle anyone inside. He can also shoot the jumper from 8-10 feet, something that gives Adworks an added dimension. 
Kevin Keyes brings Bookstore experience and deadly shooting to the favorites. He played on Adworks champi­onship team two years ago and advanced to the title con­test last spring. No one wants a Bookstore title more than Keyes. 
Tony Rice's record speaks for itself. He doesn't lose at much of anything. He can run with Johnson, shoot with Keyes or rebound with Figaro. 
Jim Dolan may be a step(s) slower than when he played in the JACC, but he can still score from inside and outside. And that's all that matters in this tourney. An added incen­tive for Dolan is that this could be his last Bookstore tour­ney, as he exits graduate school in May and leaves his job as graduate assistant for the Irish. 
Malicious Prostitution, the defending champion, is the strongest challenger for Adworks. But there's something missing from this title team. The players don't have the same look, the same emotion that carried them to last year's title. An upset before the finals might put Malicious off the basketball court and back in the courtroom. 
The underdogs won it last year in a triumph of good over evil. 
The top dogs will win it this spring. The team with the most talent doesn't always win the big prize. Adworks will change that Sunday afternoon. 
They say that if you can't run with the big dogs, you should stay home. The rest of the field might consider that advice this weekend. 
Adworks vs. Expresso Pizza -This might be the toughest test for the favorites. With a better draw, Expresso Pizza could have made a run at the title. Anyone will have trouble stopping Kevin Warren. 
The depth of Adworks will be too much for Expresso Pizza. Look for a tight game early, then Adworks will break it open. Adworks by five. 
Soul Sonic Force vs. Tequila White Lightning -Soul Sonic Force has speed, but no height. That will be a prob­lem in this game. 
I started this tourney thinking that Tequila White 
Lightning was not as good as in the past. TWL hs done ev­
erything to dispel! that notion, including an impressive 21­
12 victory over Rubber Cement II on Thursday. Quickness 
will keep Soul Sonic close, but Tequila will win by three. 
Just Chillin' vs. Remember It's Denver -Two teams 
that no one knows a lot about. Just Chillin' got the biggest 
upset of the tourney in knocking off Senior Bar on 
Thursday, while Remember It's Denver looked impressive in 
victories over All the President's Men and Clockwork 
Orange. 

The big man inside for Remember It's Denver -Jody 
Martinez -will be the difference in this game. No one in the 
tourney has been able to stop him, and Just Chillin' has no 
answers. Remember It's Denver by three. 
Malicious Prostitution vs. Sweet Scotty P and the 
Dwarfs -This will be billed as big man vs. big man, Pete 
VanDyke vs. Scott Paddock. Paddock will win that battle, 
but the key will be Joe Scott of Malicious Prostitution. 
With those two battling inside, look for Scott to light it 
up from the perimeter. The dream of defending stays alive 
at least for one more game in a four-point Malicious 
Prostitution win. 

Adworks vs. Tequila White Lightning -The underdogs 
don't have the horses to stay with Adworks. Look for a re­
peat of the quarterfinals between Expresso and Adworks. 
Tequila will stay close early, then falter and lose by five. 
Malicious Prostitution vs. Remember It's Denver -The 
battle of the big men again -VanDyke vs. Martinez. 
VanDyke will finally be the one who can neutralize 
Martinez. 

Scott will hit from out again, and Malicious Prostitution 
will advance to the title game with a three-point victory. 
Adwork's vs. Malicious Prostitution -A repeat final ex­
cept for the score. VanDyke won't be able to move Figaro 
and Dolan inside. Keyes will neutralize Scott outside. Rice 
and Johnson will control the remainder of the defending 
champs. 

Give Adworks its second title in three years by a four­
point margin. 

And give Dolan the MVP and a shot at the pros after hit­
ting 10 hoops in the finals. 

No strong challenger for Adworks 
The 20,000 dollar question in Book­store Basketball once again this year is this: Who is going to stop Adworks? 

Last year Ma­licious Prostitution Ken Tysiac

answered that question with a Joe Associate Sports Editor Scott jumper from the top of the key for a 21-19 win in the final game of the tour­nament. This year there doesn't appear to be a team with an answer. The tournament should shape up something like this: 
Just Chillin' vs. Remember, It's Denver ­Just Chillin' proved that it had icewater in its veins in a comeback victory against heavy fa­vorite Senior Bar Thursday. Look for Just Chillin' to continue riding the wave of emo­tion which upset Senior Bar to fly Rocky Mountain high against Remember, It's Denver. 
Sweet Scotty P. and the Dwarfs vs. Malicious Prostitution -Scott Paddock fi­nally moved inside Thursday and this spells trouble for his squad's opponents. Prostitution's Pete Van Dyke is even taller than Paddock at 6-11 and shouldn't be intim­idated in the least, however. Even though Prostitution has yet to play to its potential, it should manage to defeat Sweet Scotty P. 
Expresso Pizza vs. Adworks -Expresso Pizza will be the latest team to have an op­portunity to knock off these overwhelming favorites as the final eight gets underway to­day. Expresso strong man Kevin Warren is very powerful inside, but he gives up five inches and some pounds to former Irish bas­ketball captain Jim Dolan, who plays center for Adworks. Warren will have a hard time scoring in the post against Dolan. 
Expresso guards Kevin Kade, Mark Granger and Todd Wagenblast, though ca­pable. also will hA guarr!Ad by taller players Derrick Johnson, Tony Rice and Kevin Keyes, so Adworks should be able to have a field day on the boards and record the win. 
Tequila White Lightning vs. Soul Sonic Force -This game could be the best matchup of the final eight. Although Jamere Jackson has played with little emotion for Soul Sonic thus far, teammate Dorsey Levens gets the key buckets for Soul Sonic inside. Soul Sonic's smothering defense should prevent Jake Kelchner from setting the nets on fire for Tequila, and lead Levens and company to victory. 
The Final Four: 

Soul Sonic Force vs. Adworks -Soul Sonic Force's reward for a victory over Tequila will be a semifinal meeting with Adworks. Soul Sonic's defensive quickness will not phase the favorites, whose size inside will force Soul Sonic to abandon Levens as its main weapon and shoot the outside jumper. This will ex­pose Soul Sonic's most glaring weakness, i.e. a lack of discipline in a halfcourt offense, and propel Adworks into the finals for the third year in a row. 
Just Chillin' vs. Malicious Prostitution ­Although Just Chillin' has played inspired ball to this point in the tournament and Prostitution has not, the defending champs are just too strong for Just Chillin', especially inside. Look for Van Dyke to assert himself inside defensively for Prostitution and Scott to light it up from the outside in this one. 
The Championship: 

Malicious Prostitution vs. Adworks -Don't look for a repeat of last year's upset. Dolan will own Van Dyke inside. Although defensive specialist Jim Flynn may be able to stop ei­ther Tony Rice or Derrick Johnson from lighting it up, he can't guard them both, and the one he doesn't match up against should have a field day. Scott's shooting hasn't been as sensational as it was last year, and with this most potent scoring threat sputtering, Adworks will convincingly defeat Prostitution in the finals. 
Tight field vies for women's crown 
In a tournament that has been characterized with lop-sided 
victories  and  
questionable  
seedings,  the  

Women's Book­store Basketball 


Championship Chris Cooney narrowed its field 
to eight yester-Assistant Sports Editor day. The remain­ing teams, while offering varying experience and styles, all possess a level of talent that should make this year's final rounds the closest and most exciting ever. 
Top seeded Fast Break consists of two Saint Mary's and one former Notre Dame varsity basketball player, as well as volleyball coach Sue Medley. With three squad members reaching six feet, Fast Break likes to go in­side while tiring their opponents with a rapidly paced offense. However, the largely unknown squad remains untested. They won yesterday by 19 and have yet to give up more than seven points. No one can be sure how they'll do against stiffer competition. 
That should all change today at 5 p.m. Fast Break takes on Hey Loppo, What's that on Your Neck?, the reigning Interhall champs. Led by Carol Elliot and Lara Mangan, two former Irish walk-ons, Hey Loppo has played together since October and has the advantage of set plays and an organized game plan. 
In that bracket's other quarterfinal, the Meta Mucils will combat Untamed Lyons. Both teams are composed mainly of lnterhall squads and former Notre Dame walk-ons. This game should be extremely close ·as well. Meta Mucils, the fifth seed, is another team that has not faced the intense pressure of a close contest and needs to come together if it expects to advance. The Lyons, on the other hand, should be exhausted after their marathon 30-28 upset of the fourth seeded Hoosier Lawyers. Lyons has a good chance of adding to their list of surprises if they take their momentum and balanced attack into today's contest. 
Riding on consecutive championships, Sandy Botham of 5 Girls Who Just Do It has once again formed a stellar team many are predicting to give the former Notre Dame star her third title in as many years. Two other former varsity athletes, Missy Byrne and Rachel Hall, join Jill Bodensteiner and Liz Nolan on a team still waiting to jell. Sharp­shooter Bodensteiner, who leads the team in scoring, claims today is do-or-die for 5 Girls. 
The main question for 5 Girls is how the loss of point guard Pandora Fecko will affect the team's controlled offense. Fecko is away with the golf team and the team will miss her passing and defensive prowess. Her absence and Hall's recovering back injury may ham­per the championship quest. 
5 Girls faces Heavy B and the Girls today. Heavy B, a Final Four participant last year, was miseeded at ten and should test 5 Girls. With Belles' players Kim Holms as the only change from last year's roster, Heavy B can only be better. Joined by Saint Mary's team­mate Linda Garrett, Holm's squad has expe­rience, strength both inside and out and gritty determination. Down 10-5 in Thurs­day's game, Heavy B put together a tough comeback in a very physical victory. 
That matchup's winner will play the victor of the contest between C.J.'s Gals and Mur­ray's Madness. C.J.'s, seeded third, has cruised through the early rounds and really cliqued on Thursday. The combination of Cathy Emigholz, one of the best players in the tourney, and interhall star Liz Toohey, gives C.J's a powerful 1-2 punch inside. When com­bined with the shooting of another Saint Mary's player, Mia Tettenborn, the team ex­hibits no real weakness. Their aggressive de­fense should shut down Murray's, who also possess a Belles player in Kelly Cook. Mur­ray's made it to the final eight because of their speed and versatile shooting ability, but they won their game Thursday on eight free throws. While they should give C.J.'s their first real test of the year, this may be the least exciting game of the weekend. 
The semis and finals this year could get ugly. Most of the players know one another and many have some old scores to settle. Look for some intense competition, especially as teams go after 5 Girls. 
Interhall darkhorses Hey Loppo and Un­tamed Lyons should also be tough as they seek respect. The real championship, and best game of the tournament will occur Sat­urday when 5 Girls should play C.J.'s. Who­ever wins that one will be unstoppable in Sunday's final. 
page 13 

ows '90 
vide pcollling ltlonths 
Clockwise from top: Some samples of the movies scheduled to come to theaters this summer: "Die Hard 2" with Bruce Willis, "Total Recall" with Arnold Schwarzenegger. "Fiatl iner s," a medical thriller, and "The Adventures of Ford Fairlane," starring Andrew Dice Clay. 
Bones are the n1ain attraction of this unique Ron1e n1useulll 
JOHN BLASI 
Overseas column 
R 
orne, Italy-There are some sculptures in Rome that are perhaps more haunting than Michelangelo's Pieta. The artist has not used paints, nor has he sculpted in stone. His medium is slightly less common-the bones of the dead. 
Rows of skulls, thigh bones, and pelvic girdles form geometric designs on the walls and ceilings of these galleries. Some form symbols of the sacraments, while others recreate the bodies of the owners in their traditional garb. In the first gallery, three skeletons appear together in clothes that could have come from the friar found at the entrance to this "attraction." 
Located right off of the posh Via Veneto under the Church of the Immaculate Conception, this cemetery for Cappuchin friars houses the bones of some 4,000 friars whose remains have been artistically arranged into various geometric patterns on the walls and ceilings of this eerie crypt. 
The bones of these friars date from 1528 to 1870, and the dirt floor of the cemetery was brought from Jerusalem during the Crusades by the orders of Pope Urban VIII. Unfortunately, the creator of this gruesome work is unknown. 
As one walks into the cemetery, a grey-bearded friar, humbly dressed in what resembles a burlap sack tied with a bit of twine, will ask for a small "donation." The wise tourist will give these humble gatekeepers a few coins. 

These friars are pretty shrewd, though. They seem to charge admission based on how rich the visitor appears-I saw them charge one Japanese family 1 ,000 Lire per person. 
There are three "galleries" of designs, each with its own particular theme which is explained by the multilingual signs on the walls outside the works. Signs everywhere prohibit flash photography, and it seems slightly macabre to take pictures of the bones in a cemetery. Pictures are for sale near the entrance, though. 
Although the bones in the crypt have been lying here for at least 1 00 years, and the whirl of irreverent tourists on their 100-sites-per-day trips crowd the cemetery, a deathly odor pervades the place. The stacks of bones stare back hauntingly as visitors walk down the narrow corridor behind the other tourists. The children squawk, and the bones seem to scream back at them. 
There is something truly morbid about the place. Visitors feel as though they are reveling in death, as if one were watching one of those "Faces of Death" movies that feature horrible accidents that occur during the filming of movies and newscasts. 
The last gallery has the remains of Princess Barberini on the ceiling of the arch. She holds in her skeletal hands a sickle and balance, as a grisly reminder of human mortality. On the wall beneath her, there is an inscription surrounded by rows of skulls and pelvic girdles reminding all passersby of their pitiful fates. It reads, 
We were once what you are now: We are now what you will be. 
As the vacant eye sockets or the ghastly Princess stare back, an icy terror grips the visitor's previously indifferent heart. I Ier eyes bore through the back of the soul as one walks out behind the bored, tired family of tourists and sees a new group entering this sepulchral scene. 

Latin An1ericans express selves vvith n1usic, dance and con1edy 
MANUEL ESPINO 
accent writer 

T 
onight the Notre Dame chapter of the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) will be hosting the first annual Latin Expressions Talent Show. 
Just what exactly is Latin Ex­pressions? It is sort of a cross between the International Fes­tival, Black Images and the Keenan Hevue. Though the above are tough acts to follow, the Latin Expressions Talent Show promises to be lots of fun. 
Latin Expressions, as the name implies, deals with the Latin American aspects of song, dance, comedy and drama. Though several acts aim to make fun of the stereotypes of the Latin Americans, a serious undertone exists throughout the program. 
Twenty acts have been ap­proved to perform, so the show will last close to two hours. I leadlining the show will be Hache! Cruz, guitarist and singer, who will dazzle the crowd with her beautiful voice, just as she has before at Grace's Coffeehouse. 
In addition, another Coffee­house performer, John Kennedy, will sing a few Chilean folk songs. Also, various comedy and dramatic skits will be performed, with the topics ranging from the typical Latin American disciplining process to the reenactment of the miracle of our Lady of Guadelupe in Mexico. 

There will also be Latin American singer imperson­ations and recitation of Latin American poetry. Notre Dame's Folk Dance Group and several students will perform their version of the lambada. 
The Latin Expressions will be in the Library Auditorium at 7 
p.m. Tickets are on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk, and at the door, at a cost of $2. So if a little variety interest you, come try a little Latin American culture. 

,­
page 14 The Observer
~ 
I 
I I An introduction to the Church of the Latter-day Narnians 
I I  The Church of the Latter-day Narnians is only a few hours old as I write this; however, the  Father Robert Griffin  "It's my faith that I've lost, not my reason." There are more things in heaven and earth than  we could subscribe to it as dogma for a faith-walk that leaves Jesus behind until this  
date when religion first came to Narnia cannot be figured out on any calendar known to our sublunary earth.  Letters to a Lonely God  the philosophers dream of, but elves are not among them. As a revivalist promoting the Gospel according to C.S. Lewis,  silly season in the Catholic Church's history is over and gone, and the dear battered Bride of Christ has had some  
The Narnian religion centers  take and read," as St. Augus­ crabgrass that chokes the  I'm subscribing to this set of  rest.  
on Asian, the Lion King, son of the great Emperor-Beyond-the­Sea. How do you worship a lion? According to the  tine understood when the same words were spoken to him. His reading assignment wasn't "The Chronicles of Narnia," but  growth of wild lilies. Perhaps we could lease Her­itage, USA, now that Tammy and Jimmy Bakker have fin­ beliefs pieced together by Paul F. Ford, a specialist in Aslanol­ogy. "I believe in the Emperor­beyond the Sea ...  I'd willingly suspend my Catholic beliefs, and trust the poetic whimsy of Narnia to  
"Chronicles of Narnia," he re­quires a lot of stroking, but you may not get that close to him, unless he calls you to be a vi­sionary. As Aslanians, we can start the liturgy by singing,  those were the inspired writ­ings that came immediately to my mind, thanks be to Asian. I spent the rest of the night perusing the "Chronicles." At daybreak, I made an act of  ished using it as a biblical Dis­neyland. There we could install the wardrobe made from ap­plewood mentioned in the title of the first Chronicle, "The Witch, the Lion, and the  "I believe in his Son Asian who sang into being all the worlds and all they contain ... And I believe that Asian was a true beast, the king of beasts, a lion, and that for Edmund, a  save me, if it would get the Church off the ropes, and into a neutral corner, for as long as it takes her to bless herself. At the twilight that ends  
"What a Friend We Have in  faith that they were all true,  Wardrobe."  traitor, he gave himself into the  Narnia, the stars fall from the  
Asian." and then make up the  and that here was my new  Since it served as the gateway  power of the White Witch, who  sky. Dragons and dinosaurs eat  
sacraments as we go along.  Bible. The late C.S. Lewis would  through which the children first  killed him most horribly. At the  all the trees of the forest until  
"What's wrong with the  be my Matthew, Mark, Luke  entered Narnia, it could now be  dawn following that darkest.  there is nothing left but lifeless  
Catholic Church," you well may ask. Nothing at all, prayer partner, except that it's shop­worn and shell-shocked. Chris­ and John from now on, as well as the new St. Paul, who will advise me to take a little wine for my stomach's sake.  used as a door through which the converts must go in order to join the Church, as though this were a rite of initiation  coldest night, he was restored to full life, setting death to work backwards. "He went off to rescue all  rock. The sea rises, and so does the dying red sun. The moon rises to a position where the sun can absorb her. Then Time,  
tianity carries too much exces­ C.S. Lewis wrote about Asian  necessary for salvation.  those who had been turned into  as a giant, squeezes the light  
sive baggage for my taste, and  as the representation of Christ;  If Narnia is true and real,  stone by the Witch's wand, and  out of the sun, and all that is  
it's starting to look shabby, like  to be orthodox and kosher,  perhaps all the other fantasies  to deliver the whole land from  left is ice-cold, total darkness.  
a second-hand limousine that  must I now say that Christ is a  we tell the children about are  everlasting winter. He will be  
you'd be willing to trade in for  representation of Asian? Or is  more than what we perpetuate  behind all the stories of our  There is a judgment scene in  
a Volkswagen.  that like asking which came  while reading them to sleep,  lives; and when it is time, he  which all living creatures must  
If you want to be intolerant,  first, the chicken or the egg?  and I intend to stop looking  will appear again in our world  pass before Asian and look into  
you can call me a backslider,  Old loyalties die hard, and I'm  down my nose at "Alice in  to wind it up, calling all of his  his face. Those who look at him  
but I have had a religious expe­ inclined to give the primacy to  Wonderland" and "Through the  creatures whose hearts' desire  with hatred disappear into the  
rience. Last night. I visited our  the Saviour, though Asian. dy­ Looking Glass."  is to live in his country.  darkness of his shadow. Those  
local version of Stonehenge, in  ing for our sins, is also remem­ However, I wouldn't dream of  "I believe that upon us all  who look at him with love in  
search of peace. While waiting  bered for the love in him that is  reading Tolkien's "Lord of the  falls the breath of Asian ...and  their faces are allowed to enter  
for Darby O'Gill to wet on the  stronger than death.  Rings" in search of a faith to  that one day we will pass  Asian's country.  
spotlights, I remembered Car­ As born-again Aslanians, we  live and die in. "0 feathers, not  through the door of death into  
dinal Newman's telling us that  have our work cut out for us.  another elf!" protested an In­ "Chapter One of the Great  Please come with me through  
as a lad, he prayed for the  First, we need to pick our Holy  kling to whom Tolkien was  Story," which no one on earth  the Shadow Lands to the heart  
"Arabian Nights" to come true.  City. All the outstanding reli­ reading the adventures of Bilbo  has read, which goes on for­ of Narnia, which awaits us on  
"Fat chance!" I thought cyni­ gions have a Holy City where  Baggins.  ever, and in which every chapter  the other side of death's door.  
cally, "The powers-that-be  the price of real estate is sky­ The Inkling's insight was per­ is better than the one before."  Through the eyes of the chil­ 
don't make things so easy."  high and the landlords and  fect: the "Lord of the Rings"  Is this profession of faith,  dren, you can see the New Nar­ 
That's when I heard the voice,  merchants grow rich on  has too many elves. As James  then, superior to the Christian  nia from here. The only way  
which may have been Asian's,  tourism. In all the great sects,  Joyce answered, when asked if  Creed? Faith partner, it IS the  you can join the Church of the  
say: "Tolle lege, Tolle lege," which means, "Take and read.  the clink of money around the altar is as predictable as the  he was leaving the Catholic Church to join the Protestants:  Christian Creed reformulated in Narnian imagery. But perhaps  ing a child of Asian  



The University of Notre Dame continues to be a major source of staff for Price Waterhouse. 
We are proud to welcome the following 1990 graduates to our firm. 
ATLANTA INPIANAPOLIS PIIISIHJBGH 
Richard Granger Mike Henn Anne Mowchan Mike Hronchek Kim Skiles Brian Murray 
BOSION LONDON SAN EBAHCISCO Joe DiMaria Furkan Javaid Jack Langenberg, Ill Shogo Suzuki CHICAGO MILWAUKEE SOUTH ~~~HP
Mike Aberle Jane Doetsch Maureen Albrich Mike Lane
-"" 
Matt Breslin MORRISIOWN Mike Buenzow Pete Claude SI. LOUIS Tim Fagan 
Tracey Gold Richard Westenberger Edward Scheidler 
Mark Olkiewicz Steve Rosamilia SIAMEOBD 
CINCINNAII Tim Dillane NEW YORK
Frank Ramundo Gary Anderson SYBACUSE DEHVEB Joanne Chavez Robert Micek Don Wente Nancy Cicorelli Joe Lakatos WASHIHGIQH 12.C. HARTEQBD Dan Bazarko Sean Hickey Joe Casey Peter DeMeo 
'-------------------------------Price Waterhouse 


) 
-~--­
r-------------------------------~~----~~---------------------------~ 
Friday, April 27, 1990 The Observer page 15 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including spaces. 
Classifieds 
LOST-VIVITAR CAMERA ON 3 BEDROOM-GARAGE AIR TICKET CHICAGO-DENVER. HELP! HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY KELLY 
'/'t\AKE EVERY DAY* 
THURS., 4/19 AT BRIDGET'S OR 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS LV. MAY2, RET. MAY 12. I DESPERATELY NEED 1 OR 2 REUBA!!! WE LOVE YOU BABEl! I 
*EARTH DAY* 
MCCORMICKS-if found please $525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT 239-7385 OR 272-6968. GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL love, Stacey, Maureen. Jen. SUMMER CAMPAIGNS 
call Shannon @ 284-5229 232-3616. PAY CASH. MICHELLE 2677 """FOR SALE"""""
FOR THE 

Turtle Creek Apt NEED 2 GRAD TIX I I hiag
ENVIRONMENT 
LOST •• RAY BAN SUNGLASSES · furnished/summer A couch with a pull out bed ENTER LOTIERY 4 ME I I 
EARN $2500-$3500 
· Black wire-rims, left on a PA Matt x3549 CALL JIM X1415 
Help pass the Clean Air 
speaker at Earthday during the Best Offer takes couchlllll! Do you like to read ? Bring 
mind-shattering mega-jam of ROOMMATE NEEDED. Furnished your books to CLUB 23 I Superfreak. Call Mike x1464. room in nice, quiet house near Call Beth, Sara or Natasha at
Act, tighten pesticide 
I PERSONALS
controls f, promote 
campus. Considerate, mature, X2722 'MO'
omprehenslve recycling 
LOST: A Canon Sprint camera non-smoker a must. Available mid­START YOUR NEW CAREER
AvaUable In 18 states f, 
at Senior Formal. Please call May. Summer $175/mo. Avail for WITH A NEW CAR! 
Kay at277-8813. Thanks! Fall/Spring $250/mo. Call 232· Refrigerator 4cu ft, Jay x 1856 
D.C. 

We have special financing for 9952. Thanks. 
00 WHEN YOU NEED COPIES 00employed graduates. 

Call Kate toll-free: 
PLEASE!! I LOST MY Furniture:Game Table,Sm Ref., THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE
Call: Gary Erb 

1-800-75-EARTH 
COMPUTER Sofa,etc. Great for house or IS OPEN LATE & WEEKENDS
At: Gates Toyota DISKS · YES WITH ALL MY SUBLETIING TURTLE CREEK dorm. 232-3972 
237-4999 PAPERS· IN LAFORTUNE LAB TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, 
OR SOMEWHERE IN THE FURNISHED. TOM 273-0302 ADOPTION. We are a childless,
NOTICES 
GOING HOME !?!?!? 
HUDDLE. Enduro Motorcycle: '87 Suzuki educated, secure, happily married, 
For great rental van rates call Tim 
THEY WERE IN A RED CASE New 2 Bdrm., 2 Bath Condo. SP125cc. Mint Condition. Call white Christian couple. Give your 
TYPING term at x1143 ASAP. 
HOLDING 5 DISKS, SOME WITH Available for 1990-1991. Jim@ 277-9198 baby a fantastic future. Let uspapers/reports/letter/resumes. 
THE NAME "MOON." I REALLY Walk to campus. Call adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­Pick up & delivery available. 277­
REALLY NEED THESEI!IIF Michelle at x4981. 1986 VW GOLF, 4-DR 974·8227.
5134 Cathy. BASS PLAYER 
YOU'VE PICKED UP THE WRONG HATCHBACK, AIR, AM/FM and 
CASE, OR WHATEVER, PLEASE CASSETIE, 55,000 MI., AVAIL. SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US!II
UPS ON CAMPUS LEAD SINGER 
CALL MONICA AT 288-4335 MAY 19. $4000. 239-7385 OR Mail Boxes Etc. 
Needed for established campus
OR LEAVE IT AT THE HOUSEMATES NEEDED: 272-6968. We're ON CAMPUS 5/5to 5/12,
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER band-mostly classic rock· 
LAFORTUNELAB. THANK Area Iris, an experiment in In La Fortune (Dooley Room)f 
239·6174 · LAFORTUNE experience and equipment YOU!!!! cooperative living, has one or FOR SALE: 1988 NISSAN UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 
required-to begin playing Fall '90 
two openings for this summer PULSAR SE, 3-DOOR SPORTS 277-6245
call Rich x1475 and/or this fall. If you are open COUP, 5-SPEED, AIR, CASSETIE Pete x1429 WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP! 
$100 FREE INSURANCE LOST· BLACK S100EF KODAK minded and interested in STEREO, EXCELLENT RIDE THE WINDY CITY SHUTILE CAMERA ON SATURDAY AT inexpensive community living CONDITION, LEAVING TO CHICAGO THIS WEEKEND. 
Discounts Available HOGSTOCK. CALL KATH ANNE close to campus, please call us at COUNTRY, MUST SELL, $8600. LET US HELP YOU I TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE 283-4044. 232-3330. CALL 282-2140. LAFORTUNE INFORMATION
SHIPPING SERVICES DAILY WORDPROCESSING DESK. ONLY$10.00
$100 FREE INSURANCE 272-1837 
I lost my SEIKO wristwatch FLIGHT to SALT LAKE CITY, one­with black wristband. Maybe 2 BDRM, 2 BATH HOME ON N.D. way, leaving South Bend May 11, 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER on North Quad. If found AVE.2 BLKS TO CAMPUS.272-female only. CHEAP!!! STEPAN CENTER BUILDING 
LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE please call Diana x4003 6306 Call Karin at 2565. MANAGERS are needed for $$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS I 
PANDORA'S BOOKS next year. Apply now at the WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP! 
Corner of NO ave and Howard SUMMER RENTAL. House or LOVELY HOME -Near NO, 3+br, Student Activities Office, 233-2342 Rooms.Near campus.272-6306 appraised at $69,900, many xtras, 315 LaFortune. 
Discounts available 
WANTED 
h 2879341 ' w 2395080 2 BDRMS, TURTLE CR., SUBLET. 
HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS 1 FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE 273-0601. 
$$PIONEER VSX3300 receiver­PETE'S BREWING COMPANY 
SUMMER? Jet there from TO LIVE AT LAFAYETIE SQ.
amp,6 mnths new.Cost $315 will 
any weekend-ext 1938 NEAR NO: Clean and comfortable sell at $265:Sean@2011 LEADING CALIFORNIA BASED Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for TOWNHOUSES NEXT YEAR. (5 
no more than $229, or from the BEDROOMS/WASHERIDRYER/N
turn. apts: 755 South Bend SPECIALTY BREWER NOW 
East Coast for no more than $160 EW AND MORE) PLEASE CALL 
Ave'efficiency-$225;'1 bdrm-$265 ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
with AIRHITCH (R) (as reported in BETH OR JILL AT 2722 OR 2723 
RESPONSIBLE STUDENT dep.,references 616-483-9572 AMSTRAD LAPTOP WI FOR MIDWEST REGION 
NY Times. Let's Go! & Consumer EXTERNAL MONITER. 2 MANAGER. SALARY 22-25K. 
LOOKING TO HOUSESIT THIS Party Off Campus DRIVES.MUST SELL SOON BONUS, CAR, BENEFITS, ETC. 
Reports.) For info: AIRHITCH (R) Louii· 
SUMMER. NON-SMOKER, NON­
212·864·2000. Give the frog back RESPONSIBLE FOR MIDWEST DRINKER. CALL KATHY 284· Furn. 4 bdrm. Sand 
4245. V-ball court, washer/ ONE LOFT: ALMOST NEW. MUST SALES AND MARKETING Typing dryer, sale. Bruce : PICK UP BY 5/11. GOOD PRICE. PROGRAMS. BEVERAGE/SALES
Pickup & Delivery IMAGINE a university where EXPERIENCE PREFERRED. CALL 10 Speed bike.272-6306 234·3831 or 288-5653 RON #3107 
277-7406 students of peace have all the MARK BOZZINI (415) 328-7383. 
resources they can possibly EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL use and students of war have
WANTED! II: 

TICKETS 
Call SAFEWALK for an escortLoft/bookshelves/couch/chair-I've Two Bedr Condo 2Baths. Lg 

been bumming off people for too rooms,pool,great for Grads anywhere on campus.
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. to hold a bake sale to buy 
their weapons! 
7:30pm-1:30am Sun-Thlong and now that I'll be in a single I 232-3972.

SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US! 
I NEED GRAD TIX 7:30pm-2:00am Fri-Satneed your help. If you have any of 
MAIL BOXES ETC. Looking For Something to Do
will pay BIG $$$
the above items and are willing to Castle Point Studio 
UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. Before De La Soul? 
for summer rent;fully eves 283-3536 Roni· Thanks for a greatsell them call Chrissy x4026 
On S.R. 23. just past Ironwood. THE ANTI-TOSTAL CONCERT!! !I! 
furnished 277-8379 weekend. I hope the summerTHANKS!
277-6245 3:00-ish P.M. Friday only gets better. 
April27, 1990 
NEED GRAD TICKET CALL M.P Featuring:NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD 
CHUCK X 3302 

SAFE AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF TARTAR GUN 
LOST/FOUND 
SENIORSQuality couches/dressers NO 2773097 

FLESH BURRITO Jack 271-5651 SENIORSCRANKSHAFTLOST: GOLD SEIKO WATCH I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!!! 
3-4 bedroom house with 2 SENIORS
THE GOATEES WITH BLACK STRAP please call Kathy at 277-8813
STU REPORTER WANTED NEXT full baths, washer/dryer & 
...... ,. .............................. (and maybe one or two others)
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN B1 Are you planning on volunteering
FALL Need knowledgable NO fan garage. Located safely across 
PARKING LOT & LAFORTUNE next year?
to file daily sports update-$$. the street from campus. 
ANTI-TOSTAL!!I!!
LOST ON WEDNESDAY, 4/18. 
Journalism exp a plus. 312-248-Ph. 234-7650 In front of Stanford Hall 
CALL FATMATA 239-5243 Grad Tix = Big $$ Please sign up at the Senior 
5148 HARDCORE'FUNK'REGGAE

BEFORE 5 PM OR 288-0440 AVAILABLE JUNE OR AUGUST, 4 Call Steve@ 287-2105 Class Office in Lafortune or at the 
ROCK&ROLL'GODHEAD
AFTER6 PM. C.S.C. to participate in the 
Part-time job, flexible hours. Earn BEDROOM HOUSE. 

extra money working for a national COMPLETELY FURNISHED. 
ceremony during graduation ANTI-TOSTAL!!I!!

Attention please. weekend.
marketing firm. This job follows you SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234­
I need two grad tix bad 
anywhere. Call AMG at 1·800-333· 9364. 
CLASSOFOO
honest, I am willing to pay big DEADLINE IS MAY 1 . 
7944 exl.1 0 between 9-5 Career & Placement Thank You LOST: Set of keys on Mod bucks for them. 
STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? 
Lunch, Monday 12:00-2:00 at Earn $300 to $500 per week 2-BDR. APT. AVAILABLE FORQuad by PW on Wed. afternoon. Please call Greg at 3114 ••KENTUCKY DERBY" 
Alumni/Senior Club No job? 
Call Dan x 1 004 ************* ROAD RALL YIND PARTY reading books at home. Call615· SUBLEASING. CALL NOW! II 284· Come anyway; bring a resume and ACCOMODATIONIRIDERS473-7440 Ext. B340 4070. 
send it off with a helium balloon. 
CALL JOE/CHRIS 287-8575 LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ 
SINGLE STUDIO APT. AT 
ATIENTION ·GOVERNMENT 
SUMMER IS A GREAT TIME FOR SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. 
ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. CALL #2059-JOHN
TURTLE CREEK FOR SUMMER. 
THE BEACH, CHICAGO, REWARD. SEAN 2073 Fords. Mercedes, Corvettes, UTILITIES INCLUDED. 284-5475 
CONCERTS AND ART FAIRS. Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-LEAVE MESSAGE. 
ATIRACTIVE BACHELOR, 602-838-8885 EXT. A6262.
LOST: Black and gold Seiko WANTED-GRADUATION r-------------~ 
MICHIGAN CITY BUSINESS dress watch on the second TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800­
floor of the library. Please 888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK PROFESSIONAL WANTS TO ~<'!! 00 
ALASKA SUMMER SUBLET a TURTLE CREEK 
MEET INTELLIGENT AND 
call Pat x2479 or give to FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT 
EMPLOYMENT · fisheries. TOWNHOUSE/FULLY 
ATIRACTIVE NOTRE DAME OR ­$5,000+/month! Over 8,000 FURNISHED ST. MARY'S CO-ED OR GRAD 
library security at the lront AFTER 5 616-342-0729. 
desk. 
openings. Free transportation! CALL KEVIN x1636 STUDENT WHO LIKES TO HAVE
'I NEED GRAD TIX'
Room & Board! No experience FUN. I'M WHITE, 33 YEARS OLD
My grandmother from DC would
necessary. MALE or FEMALE. SUBLETIING TURTLE CREEK AND 5'1 0, 185 LBS. SEND NOTE, SENIOR FORMAL: Are those kill or die to see me graduate . I will 
Send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, PHOTO AND PHONE TO: 
pictures you developed not yours? CALL MICHELE AT x4544 or pay BIG $$$for 2 grad tix 'Buy any 12' 
84008, Seattle, WA 98124 · J.GRAHAM
Maybe you or your date picked up call BRAD @ 271-0758 
SARAH AT x4068. 

Satisfaction Guaranteed. 
2 DEVONSHIRE CT. 
the wrong camera by accident on ItalianSu6 with 
MICHIGAN CITY, IN 46360SAT night. Please call #1765. 
FOR RENT THANKS Home Assembly Work. Info. Call Furnished apt-like rooms, air, $$$ Om Litre 504-646-1700 DEPT. P5868. kitchen, 5 mins, N. campus 
ATIENTION: Excellent Income for BRIDGET'S BRIDGET'SLOST: Women's high school class 
272-0615 Saft~ ring ...gold ring, dark blue stone If you are selling GRAD TIX, call 
PURDUE STUDENT LOOKING 
BOAT HOUSE BLUES BAND 
with gold crest on top...class of me first. MONEY NO OBJECTIII 
am£ receive

FOR 2·3 ROOMMATES FOR 
FOR SALE
1986.. .initials LAG on the inside ... 
SUMMER. 
LIVEII

PLEASE CALL #2533 CALL JOE (317) 7 43-5918 ENTIRE ROOM-Harry x2263 
$1.00 off

Friday, April27, 1990EVERYTHING MUST GO!! 
9:30P.M.

I'm losllll Please help me, my GIANT 10FT
FOR RENT 
caU

name is Sundance. I'm a white 6" CUSHION/CHAIR/COUCH· MUST I need graduation tickets for huge 
AT BRIDGET McGUIRES 
Teddy Bear with black eyes and SEE I ONE OF A KIND. CALL 3114 family. Please call Jeanne at2600.
Campus View Apartments, renting 
grey suede feet bottoms. Lost 4·8· ANDY OR GREG. 
now for summer. 2 bedrooms­
90 In red east parking lot at NO. NEED 2 GRAD. TICKETS 
277-3324

furnished-utilities included-short 
Jack Devereaux is minellllll!l
My family misses me very much. CALL CHRIS 
term leases. $425 per month. Call 
My safe return would be greatly DO YOU NEED A FLIGHT TO 289-9710 $$$
272·1441. To: the Knott gimp(K.T.) 
:Free 'Delivery

appreciated. Rewardll Call collect, PROV. R.I.?? monday, may 22, Hi I OH MY GOD IITom or Gloria at 317-247-1096 best offer! call Kris x2735 
6 bdr. 2 baths, Secure house. From: Cool Beans 
coupon ezyires:

HELP .. NEED 4-5 GRAD. 
1021 DeMaude. $550 mo. Call 
LOST: Brown leather jacket. 0/C at APPLE liE COMPUTER WI TIX Ill WILL PAY$$ CALL
234 6688 or 234 5041. You are mv Houseolant 
4-29-90

524 Cresent Street. Friday 4/20. EXTENDED MEMORY, JOHN AT x1684 
my only Houseplant Reward If found. Mike x4280. MONITOR, FAN, DISK DRIVE, 
You make me happyNEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable PROGRAMS, GAMES, & when skies are grey 
L------...1 

LOST: Brown leather jacket. turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., PRINTER FOR SALE. GRADUATION TIXS, I NEED You'll never know dear 
0/C at 524 Cresent Street. efficiency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep., ALL FOR ONLY $700 THEM I BIG BUCKS! CALL 
how much I love you 
Friday 4/20. Reward if found. references. CALL AMY 239· 7308. MELEAH AT X4229 
Please don~ take 

Mike x4280. 616-483-9572. 
my Houseplant away see CLASS I page 19 
------~~-~--~-­
--~--~-------~-------------­
Scoreboard 
Friday, April 27, 1990
e_age 16 
BASEBALL 
NATIONAL LEAGUE

AMERICAN LEAGUE BATTING (34 at bats)-Duncan, Cincinnati,
BAITING (34 at bals)-WWilson, Kansas .447; larkin, Cincinnati, .442; Santiago, San
City, .378; Pena, Boston, .375; Stillwell, Diego, .400; Sabo, Cincinnati, .396; Butler,
Kansas City, .372; Webster, Cleveland, .371; 
San Francisco, .385.

Griffey, Seattle, .369. RUNS-Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 16; Saba,
RUNS-Canseco, Oakland, 13; Palmeiro, Cincinnati, 14; TGwynn, San Diego, 13;Texas. 13; Reynolds, Sea\\le, 13; Gladden, Butler, San Francisco, 12; JCarter, SanMinnesota. 12; RHenderson, Oakland, 12. 
Diego, 12; Miller, New York, 12.
RBI-Gruber. Toronto, 19; McGwire, Oakland, RBI-Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 18; Guerrero,

15; lncaviglia, Texas, 14; Bell, Toronto, 13; Stlouis, 18; JCarter, San Diego, 15; Kruk,
Griffey, Seattle, 13. Philadelphia, 13; WCiark, San Francisco, 13.
HITS-Gritfey, Seattle, 24; Gruber, Toronto, HITS-McGee, Stlouis, 26; Butler, San

24; Fernandez, Toronto, 22; lansford, Francisco, 25; larkin, Cincinnati, 23;
Oakland, 22; larkin, Minnesota, 21; Pena, Santiago, San Diego, 22; Bonilla, Pittsburgh,
Boston, 21. 21; Saba, Cincinnati, 21.
DOUBLES-Gladden, Minnesota, 6; Howell, DOUBLES-McGee, Stlouis, 8; Grissom,California, 6; larkin, Minnesota, 6; Snyder. 

Montreal, 6; Sabo, Cincinnati, 6; 8 are tiedCleveland, 6; Stillwell, Kansas City, 6; with 5.
Trammell, Detroit, 6. TRIPLES-Owen. Montreal, 2; 30 are tied
TRIPLES-Felix, Toronto, 2; Fernandez with 1.

Toronto, 2; Javier, Oakland, 2; Palmei,ro, HOME RUNS-Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 6; Guerrero,
Texas, 2; SFinley, Baltimore, 2; Sosa, Stlouis, 5; Brooks, Los Angeles, 4; Sabo,Chicago, 2. 
Cincinnati, 4; 10 are tied with 3.
HOME RUNS-Gruber, Toronto, 7; McGwire, STOLEN BASES-Samuel, los Angeles, 11;

Oakland, 5; 6 are tied with 4. Coleman, Stlouis, 9; Raines, Montreal, 8;
STOLEN BASES-RHenderson, Oakland, 10; BHatcher, Cincinnati, 6; Grissom, Montreal,Canseco, Oakland, 6; WWilson, Kansas City, 6; Miller, New York, 6.

5; 5 are tied with 4. 
PITCHING (3 decisions)-Armstrong,PITCHING (3 decisions)-CFinley, California, Cincinnati, 3-0, 1.000, 0.95; Heaton,3-0, 1.000, 0.87; Candiotti, Cleveland, 3-0, Pittsburgh, 3-0, 1.000, 1.93; Morgan, Los1.000. 4.91; Clemens, Boston, 4-0, 1 .000, 

Angeles, 3-0, 1.000, 1.14; Tudor, Stlouis,3.54; KBrown, Texas, 3-0, 1 .000, 4.05; Ryan, 3-0, 1.000, 1.29; Viola, New York, 3-0.
Texas, 4-0. 1 .000, 2.25; Stewart, Oakland, 1.000, 1.61.

4-0, 1.000, 1.71. STRIKEOUTS-Cone, New York, 25; Gooden, 
STRIKEOUTS-Ryan. Texas, 33; Clemens, New York, 24; Viola, New York, 24; PSmith,Boston, 32; Holman, Seattle, 23; Morris, Atlanta, 23; Belcher, los Angeles, 20.

Detroit, 21; MPerez, Chicago, 20. 
SAVES-Burke, Montreal, 5; DaSmith,SAVES-Eckersley, Oakland, 6; DJones, Houston, 5; Franco, New York, 5; MiWilliams,Cleveland, 5; Henneman, Detroit, 5; 6 are Chicago, 5; RMcDowell, Philadelphia, 5.

tied with 4. 

TRANSACTIONS NHL PLAYOFFS 
Thursday, April 26 BASEBALL 
Chicago 3, St. Louis 2, Chicago leads series American League 
3-2
CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Extended the contract Friday, April 27of Bert Blyleven, pitcher, through 1991 and 

Washington at N.Y. Rangers, 7:30 p.m.added two option years. 
Montreal at Boston, 7:35 p.m.
National league Saturday, April 28 CHICAGO CUBS-Signed Pat Sheridan, Chicago at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m.
outfielder, and assigned him to Iowa of the Sunday, April 29 American Association. 
N.Y. Rangers at Washington, 7:30p.m., it CINCINNATI REDS-Placed Eric Davis. 
necessaryoutfielder, on the 15-day disabled list, Boston at Montreal. 7:05 p.m., it necessaryretroactive to April 25. 

Monday, April 30 St. louis at Chicago, 8:35 p.m., it necessaryFOOTBALL Tuesday, May 1National Football League Washington at N.Y. Rangers, 7:30 p.m., ifATLANTA FALCONS-Signed Mark Hopkins. 
necessary
tight end; and David Brown and Eric Bergeson, cornerbacks. CINCINNATI BENGALS-Signed Stu Milberg, 

St. Louis 0-2 offensive tackle. 
Chicago 0 3 Q--3 LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Acquired Napolean McCallum, running back, from the San Diego 
First Perlod-1, St. Louis, Oates 1 (Zezel, Chargers for an undisclosed future draft 
Brind'Amour), 14:05 (pp). Penalties­choice. Roberts, Stl (tripping), 2:31; A. Wilson, Stl (tripping), 2:59; lowry, Stl, major
NEW YORK GIANTS-Signed Clarence Seay, (fighting), 8:25; Yawney, Chi, majorBruce lang and Troy Kyles. wide receivers; (fighting), 8:25; R.Wilson, StlScooter Molander, quarterback; Ken Vines, (unsportsmanlike conduct), 1 0:02; T.Murray,

center; Rick Apolskis, guard; Roy Brown, Chi (unsportsmanlike conduct), 1 0:02; Bill Doyen, Andy lock and Ed Cunningham, Beltour, Chi, served by Lemieux (delay ofguards; Winfred Bryant, David Grider, Terry game), 13:54; Roberts, Stl (unsportsmanlikeSanders, defensive linemen; Mark Lindsey, conduct), 14:19; Thomas, ChiBobby Abrams. Chad Thorsen and Chad (unsportsmanlike conduct), 14:19; Gilbert,Robinson, linebackers; and Greg Boysaw, Joe Chi (roughing), 15:46.

Fishback, and Jeff Holmes, defensive backs. 

Second Perlod-2, Chicago, Lemieux 1, 
3:56. 3, Chicago, T.Murray 2 (Manson,SAN DIEGO CHARGERS-Released Jim Gilbert), 4:59. 4, Chicago, Thomas 5McMahon. quarterback. 

(Presley, Belfour), 6:12. 5, St. Louis, Hull 11 (Oates, Brind'Amour), 14:33 (pp). Penalties­ARENA FOOTBALL LEAGUE Thomas, Chi, major-game misconductDALLAS TEXANS-Named Ernie Stautner, (hooking), 10:21; Lemieux, Chi (slashing),head coach. 
15:25. Third Period-None. Penalties-Lowry, Stl
HOCKEY (hooking), 2:28; Tuttle, Stl (high-sticking),National Hockey League 4:28; Featherstone, Stl (holding), 9:24;

DETROIT RED WINGS-Announced they will Creighton, Chi (boarding), 12:52.
not offer a new contract to Borja Salming, Shots on goal-St. louis 4-9-7-20. Chicago
defensemen. 

16-8-8-32. Power-play Opportunities-St. louis 2 of 6;
COUEGE NAtA-Announced Jefferson Farris, director. 

Chicago 0 at 5. Goalies-St. Louis, Riendeau, 
2-3 (32 shots-29 saves). Chicago, Beltour,will stay until the end of the year instead 
-
3-1 (20-18). MONTANA STATE-Named Mick Durham, A-18,198. men's basketball coach. 
of retiring July 31. 

Referee-Kerry Fraser. linesmen-Wayne Bonney, Ron Finn. 
FREE 

TANNING • 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

East  Division  
w  l  Pet  
Toronto  11  6  .647  
Milwaukee  9  5  .643  
Boston  8  7  .533  
Baltimore  7  9  .438  
Detroit  7  9  .438  
Cleveland  6  8  .429  
New York  5  8  .385  
West  Division  
w  L  Pel  
Oakland  12  3  .800  
Texas  9  7  .563  
Chicago  6  6  .500  
California  7  8  .467  
Minnesota  7  9  .438  
Seattle  6  10  .375  
Kansas City  5  10  .333  

AMERICAN LEAGUE Thursday's Games Cleveland 4, Toronto 3 Milwaukee 3, Kansas City 2 Seattle 6, New York 2 Oakland 6, Baltimore 4 Boston 5, California 4 Texas 1, Chicago 0 Only games scheduled Friday's Games 

California (Biyleven 0-2) at New York (leary 1-1 ), 7:30 p.m. Seattle (Hanson 1-0) at Baltimore (Ballard 0-2), 7:35 p.m. Oakland (Sanderson 2-1) at Boston (Kiecker 0-0), 7:35 p.m. Minnesota (West 1-2) at Cleveland (Black 1-0), 7:35 p.m. Milwaukee (Navarro 0-0) at Detroit (Morris 2-1 ), 7:35 p.m. Toronto (Cerutti 1-2) at Chicago (Hibbard 1-1), 8:05 p.m. Texas (Hough 1-1) at Kansas City (Gordon 1-0), 8:35p.m. 
Saturday's Games Oakland at Boston, 1 :05 p.m. California at New York, 1:30 p.m. Minnesota at Cleveland, 1:35 p.m. Texas at Kansas City, 2:35 p.m. Seattle at Baltimore, 7:35 p.m. Milwaukee at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. Toronto at Chicago, 8:05 p.m. Sunday's Games Oakland at Boston, 1:05 p.m. California at New York, 1 :30 p.m. Minnesota at Cleveland, 1 :35 p.m. Milwaukee at Detroit, 1 :35 p.m. Seattle at Baltimore, 2:35 p.m. Toronto at Chicago, 2:35 p.m. Texas at Kansas City, 2:35 p.m. 
BASKETBALL 

FIRST ROUND (Best-of-5) Thursday, April 26 Philadelphia 111, Cleveland 106, Philadelphia leads series 1-0 Detroit 104, Indiana 92, Detroit leads series 1-0 Boston 116, New York 105, Boston leads series 1-0 San Antonio 119, Denver 103, San Antonio leads series 1-0 Dallas at Portland, (n) Friday, April 27 Milwaukee at Chicago, 8 p.m. Phoenix at Utah, 9:30 p.m. Houston at los Angeles lakers, 10:30 p.m. Saturday, April 28 New York at Boston, 1 p.m. Indiana at Detroit, 3:30 p.m. Denver at San Antonio, 8 p.m. Dallas at Portland, 10:30 p.m. Sunday, April 29 Milwaukee at Chicago, 1 p.m. Houston at los Angeles Lakers, 3:30 p.m. Cleveland at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Phoenix at Utah, 8 p.m. Tuesday, May 1 
Philadelphia at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Chicago at Milwaukee, 8 p.m. Detroit at Indiana, 8:30 p.m. los Angeles lakers at Houston, 8:30 p.m. Portland at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. San Antonio at Denver, 10:30 p.m. Wednesday, May 2 Boston at New York, 8 p.m. Utah at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m. Thursday, May 3 Chicago at Milwaukee, 8 p.m., if necessary los Angeles lakers at Houston, 8 p.m., it necessary Philadelphia at Cleveland, 8 p.m., if 
necessary 

ATTENTION; 
._._. Grad Students Professors Employees 
*furnished and unfurnished suites 
•nexlble 
leases 

•washer 
& dryer each apt. *locked intercom entrances 

•spacious 
floor plans w/country kitchens 


I.Buy 4* sessions at the-;gula7'1 I price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 
L..9et 6!_REE ~ET THE~EA~ 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA HOURS NEXT TO VENTURE Dally 9-8 GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA Sat. 9-9' 277-7946 Sun.tt-5 1909 Su!At M.Ar* Non Soufh ~ lnc1Mt\ol 40118 
219. 277. 3731
'·--·) 
GB 
112 2 3 112 3 112 3 1/2 4 
GB 
3 1/2 4 112 NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division 

w L Pittsburgh 11 6 Montreal 9 6 New York 8 7 Philadelphia 8 7 Chicago 7 9 St. Louis 7 9 West Division 
w L Cincinnati 10 2 los Angeles 9 7 San Diego 9 7 
Houston 6 9 5 San Francisco 5 11 5 1/2 Atlanta 2 11 6 1/2 z-denotes first game was a win 
7 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Wednesday's Games 
New York 8, Atlanta 5 Cincinnati 12, Philadelphia, 7 Montreal 1, Houston 0 .. San Diego 3, Chicago 0 
Pet  GB  
.643  
.600  
.533  2  
.533  2  
.438  3  112  
.438  3  1/2  
Pet  GB  
.833  
.562  3  
.562  3  
.400  5  1/2  
.313  7  
.154  8  1/2  


Pittsburgh 7, San Francisco 4, 12 innings 
St. louis 5, los Angeles 1 
Thursdays Games 
Late Game Not Included Pittsburgh 2, San Francisco Chicago 3, San Diego 1 Houston 3, Atlanta 0 St. louis at los Angeles, (n) Only games scheduled Friday's Games Montreal (Smith 2-1) at Cincinnati (Browning 2-1 ), 7:35 p.m. Philadelphia (Cook 2-0) at Atlanta (Clary 0-1 ), 7:40 p.m. New York (Viola 3-0) at Houston (Portugal 1-2). 8:35 p.m. Pittsburgh (Heaton 3-0) at San Diego (Show 0-2), 10:05 p.m. Chicago (Nunez 1-1) at los Angeles (Valenzuela 0'2), 10:35 p.m. St. louis (Mathews 0-2) at San Francisco (Hammaker 1-1 ), 10:35 p.m. Saturday's Games Montreal at Cincinnati, 2:15 p.m. St. louis at San Francisco. 3:35 p.m. Philadelphia at Atlanta, 7:10 p.m. New York at Houston, 8:05 p.m. Chicago at Los Angeles, 10:05 p.m. Pittsburgh at San Diego, 10:05 p.m. Sunday's Games Philadelphia at Atlanta, 2:10 p.m. Montreal at Cincinnati, 2:15 p.m. New York at Houston, 2:35 p.m. St. Louis at San Francisco, 3:35 p.m. Pittsburgh at San Diego, 4:05 p.m. Chicago at Los Angeles, 8:05 p.m. 
Portland at Dallas, 8 p.m., if necessary 
San Antonio at Denver, TBA, if necessary 
Friday, May 4 

Boston at New York, 8 p.m., if necessary Detroit at Indiana, 8 p.m., it necessary Utah at Phoenix, TBA, if necessary Saturday, May 5 
Cleveland at Philadelphia, TBA, it necessary Dallas at Portland, TBA. it necessary Denver at San Antonio, TBA, it necessary Milwaukee at Chicago, TBA, if necessary Sunday, May 6 Houston at los Angeles Lakers, 3:30 p.m., if necessary Indiana at Detroit, TBA, it necessary New York at Boston, TBA. it necessary Phoenix at Utah, TBA, it necessary 
INDIANA (92) 

Person 4-13 2-4 10, Schremp! 9-16 8-8 26, Smits 9-10 5-6 23, Miller 5-11 6-6 17, Fleming 2-9 3-3 7, Nat! 1-3 0-0 2, Green 0-2 0-0 0, Sanders 2-3 0-0 5, Wittman 0-1 0-0 0, Thompson 1-3 0-0 2. Totals 33-71 
24-27 92. 
DETROIT (104) 

Rodman 2-5 0-1 4, Edwards 8-12 5-6 21, laimbeer 4-9 0-0 9, Dumars 4-11 4-4 12, Thomas 8-15 3-4 20, Aguirre 2-11 0-0 4, Salley 9-16 2-3 20, Johnson 6-12 2-2 14, Bedford 0-0 0-0 O.Totals 43-91 16-20 104. 
3-Point goals-Indiana 2-8 (Sanders 1-1, Miller 1-3, Person 0-4), Detroit 2-3 (Thomas 1-1, laimbeer 1-2). Fouled out­None. Rebounds-Indiana 40 (Schremp! 7), Detroit 53 (laimbeer 14). Assists-Indiana 21 (Fleming 8), Detroit 16 (Thomas, Dumars 5). Total fouls-Indiana 27, Detroit 28. Technicals-laimbeer, Indiana coach Versace, Indiana illegal defense 2, Miller. A-21 ,454. 
CLEVELAND (106) 

Bennett 3-8 0-0 6, Nance 10-13 0-0 20, Daugherty 7-15 7-9 21, Ehlo 3-14 3-4 11, Price 9-14 3-3 21, Williams 10-15 3-5 23, Kerr 2-4 0-0 4. Totals 44-83 16-21 106. PHILADELPHIA (111) 
Barkley 15-25 7-11 38, Mahorn 5-12 0-0 10, Gminski 3-9 2-3 8, Dawkins 4-12 2-2 
NEW YORK (105) 

Walker 3-5 1-4 7, Vandeweghe 5-14 0-0 10, Ewing 9-14 4-10 22, Cheeks 4-10 3-4 11, G.Wilkins 5-12 3-3 14, Tucker 4-9 0-0 10, Newman 7-8 6-7 21, Oakley 2-5 3-5 8, E.Wilkins 0-1 0-0 0, Jackson 0-2 2-2 2. Totals 39-80 22-35 105. 
BOSTON (116) 

McHale 9-14 3-4 21 . Bird 1 0-19 2-2 24, Parish 7-13 4-4 18, Johnson 5-12 4-4 14, Lewis 7-13 8-8 22, Bagley 2-2 1-1 5, Paxson 1-3 0-0 2, Kleine 3-3 0-0 6, Pinckney 0-0 2-2 2, M.Smith 0-0 2-2 2, C.Smith 0-0 0-0 0, Gamble 0-0 0-0 O.Totals 44-79 26-27 116. 
3-Point goals-New York 5-11 (Tucker 2­5, G.Wilkins 1-1, Newman 1-1, Oakley 1-1, Walker 0-1, Vandeweghe 0-1, Cheeks 0-1), Boston 2-6 (Bird 2-5, Paxson 0-1 ). Fouled out-Newman, Johnson. Rebounds-New York 43 (Ewing 9), Boston 47 (Bird 18). Assists­New York 27 (Cheeks 9), Boston 32 (Bird 10). Total fouls-New York 26, Boston 22. A-14,890. 


EUROPE! 
WITH SEVEH SEAS TR.AVEL 


Seven Seas Travel, your local European travel experts, can help you with any travel plans you may need to experience Europe this Spring and Sum· mer. We know Europe well ... and can help you with your travel plans. regardless ol your travel budget.
_..:..,______ 

EUROPE! 
with Seven Seas Travel Seven Seas Travel Is Your LocalEurope Travel Specialist 
*Lowest Airfares To Europe *Eurail Passes 
"'Assistance With Tour Planning 
For Your Trip To Europe: 
SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 

Tel: 219-232-7995 
-~--­
Friday, April27, 1990 
Blue 
continued from page 24 
Michael Stonebreaker and Demetrius DuBose, both enjoying outstanding springs, comprise the Gold linebacking eorps. liard-hitting cornerback Rod Smith and fmc safety George Poorman will start in the defensive backfield. 
Outside linebackers Scott Kowalkowski and Andre Jones, return­ing starters from last season's Irish team, will bring some outside quickness to the Blue defense. Inside linebacker Donn Grimm will line up behind defen­sive tackle Bob Dahl. Strong safety Greg Davis and eorncrbaek Todd Lyght will try to shut down the Gold passing attaek. 
Plaeekicker Billy llaekett will play for the Gold team, while Jim Sexton will handle the punting duties. Craig llentrich will fill both roles for the Blue squad. 
Saturday's game will mark the sixth scrimmage of the spring for the Irish, more than the usual amount. 
"We got in a lot of scrimmaging this spring, but we couldn't find a rhythm," Holtz said in summing up his impres­sions of the spring. "We got a lot done, but we've also got a long way to go. 
"We'll just have to wait and see where the dust settles." 
NOTES: All proceeds from the Blue­Gold game benefit the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Scholarship Fund...Advance tickets are available at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC Friday from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m...Tickets cost $4 for adults and $2 for youths 17 and un­der...Tickets purchased at the gate on Saturday cost $5 and $3 ...All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted free with identification at gates 15 and 16...All Irish players will be available for photos and autographs from 12 noon until 1 p.m. on the Notre Dame Stadium field. 
-
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey The offensive line, which has been a sore spot for the Notre Dame football team all spring, will have a chance to redeem itself on Saturday in the Blue-Gold scrimmage. 

TAILBACK Levens
GOLD 
Lozano Hackett
P
P·PK SextonFULLBACK Spears Mllhalko 

QUARTERBACK 

OFFENSE 
FLANKER SPLIT END Jarrell TACKLE ~Kelchner Pollard Baker 
Hall Scruggs
PPPPP p 
CENTER
TIGHT END 
McGuire


Smith, I 
GUARD Jurkovic Shannon Mannelly 
GUARD 

NOSE TACKLE
BLUE DEFENSE 
Marshall TACKLE DeManigold TACKLE 
Norman Dahl 
OUTSID;0~~~EBACKER d ~ d 'fJ • ~s~~~~EBACKER 
INSIDE LINEBACKER~ ~ INSIDE LINEBACKER Smith G~mm Farren Scianna 
CORNERBACK • 
6 

1 Todd Lyght ~ ~ 19 Shawn Davis CORNERBACK 
STRONG SAFETY ~ ~ FREE SAFETY Bodine Davis QID Barnes 
1A. TAILBACK ~ Watters Hentrlch

BLUE OFFENSE P·PK 
FULLBACK 
Culver 
FLANKER 

BoydIsmail 
SPLITEND Johnson. M 
GriggsQUARTERBACK 

P 
Moscardelli TIGHTEND TACKLE ~Mirer TACKLE Brown Allen Sandri 
p
s·~,.ppppp 
GUARD CENTER GUARD Hankins Johnson Ryan Sweeny Lachetta 
GOLD
TACKLE NOSE GUARD TACKLE 
Williams Zorich Jones. E 
DEFENSE 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER Callen,.;r)J ,.;r)JTyner OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 
Simien McGill 

~~~~~:~~~ d ~ d ~ d 
INSIDE LINEBACKER Stonebreaker INSIDE LINEBACKER ~ DuBose 
Ratigan 
Donahue 
M 

A A
CORNERBACK CORNERBACKGuillory STRONG SAFETY~ ~ FREE SAFETY Smith, R 
Poorman C3!D C3!D Lolli 
Hollister 



-~ --~-­
Track team travels to Drake, Hillsdale 

By SHANNON FAY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team has already qualified seven athletes for post-season competition and it is hoping to continue its success this week­end. 
The Irish will divide into two squads as half of the team travels to Des Moines, Iowa, for the Drake Relays, while the remainder heads north to the Hillsdale Relays in Hillsdale. Michigan. 
Although the split may serve 
as an obstruction to the team's 
success, Coach Joe Piane is 
looking at it with an optimistic 
attitude. He sees the division as 
an opportunity for individual 
athletes to contend against the 
best possible competition in 
their respective events. 

.. 
Ryan barely misses sixth no-hitter 
ARLINGTON, Texas (AP) ­Nolan Ryan was too good for his own good, and it cost him his sixth career no-hitter. 
Ryan, who already holds the major-league record with five no-hitters, had to settle for his 12th one-hitter Thursday night, tying Bob Feller's mark, when Ron Kittle got a cheap check­swing single in the second in­ning. 
"I tried to get him to chase a bad curve in the dirt, but I didn't make it bad enough," Ryan said after he set a club record with 16 stikeouts in the Texas Rangers' 1-0 victory over the Chicago White Sox. 
Ryan, at 43 off to his best start in 15 years, said he had a batter-boggling curve. 
"When I throw a high per­centage of my curves for strikes, then I have a high per­
John Cole 

Junior John Cole is coming off of a first-place finish in the high jump last weekend. With a season-best performance of 6­
11.5 at the Indiana Intercollegiate meet, Cole is looking to break the elusive 7­
The one hit was just a fluke, but that's the way it goes." 
First baseman Rafael Palmeiro blamed himself for not making the catch on the second-inning hit, which landed cleanly behind him. 
Palmeiro said, "I just tripped going back. It's as simple as that. It was a routine play. I went back to my left, turned to the right, and I just tripped. 
"I saw the replay after the game. I almost killed myself, but I decided not to." 
Ryan (4-0) didn't blame Palmeiro. 
"The ground was soft out there from all the rain," Ryan said. "That's why he tripped." 
Kittle agreed with Ryan's assessment of his stuff. 
"I was trying to hit the ball up the middle and it just shot off the other way," he said. "

Our thanks to the studeht body for your support and '' Fightin' Irish" spirit~ 
We Thank You! 
The 1989r1990.... Cheerleaders 

foot mark this weekend. 
John Coyle should be a top contender in the 5,000-meter run. Coyle, a freshman from Lincroft, New Jersey, raced in the 3,000-meter steeplechase last weekend, and is hoping to better a second-place finish. 
South  Bend  native  Glenn  
Watson is  looking for  strong  
showings in  the  high  hurdle  

events. The senior holds the school record in the 55-meter high hurdles. 
Piane also has high expecta­tions for the four-mile relay and distance relay teams. 
"We have struggled with some nagging injuries over the past few weeks but I expect the kids to start coming back and really doing well. If we're healthy, we should really have some good performances this weekend," he said. 
fewer hits in a complete game 17 times, another major league record. It was Ryan's 58th ca­reer shutout, the 200th time he has fanned at least 10 batters and the 24th time in his 23-year career he has struck out at least 15 in a game. 
The 16 strikeouts set a team 
record. 
White Sox manager Jeff Torborg said Ryan was totally unhittable and should be given credit for a no-hitter. 
Torborg, who caught Ryan's 
first no-hitter with the 
California Angels 17 years ago, 
said "that was greatness. I 
shouldn't be amazed by him. He 
is a better pitcher now than he 
was 17 years ago, when I 
caught him. 
"He has better control. better 
mechanics and better breaking 
St!Jff." 

ROCCO'S HAIRSTYLING FOR 
ME~.--'
~OMEN 
.  .  
I  -.  
I  ..  
I  

531 N. Michigan St. 

AP Photo 

John Salley and the Detroit Pistons defeated the Indiana Pacers 1 04-92 last night. In other NBA playoff action Boston bounced New York 116-105 and Philadelphia edged Cleveland 111-1 06. 
MUSICIANS T~NOTE! f' F r I U U S t :!1 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
MUSIC GROUP LEADERS NEEDED 
for 
SUNDAY MASSES 1990-91 Academic Year 
Opening for pianists, guitarists, strong vocalists or flutists 
PAID POSITION THROUGH FINANCIAL AID 
Interested persons should contact Sister Betty Smoyer, S.N.D. Campus Ministry 160 Regina Ha11 Phone 284-5392 

Friday, April 27, 1990 The Observer 
page 19 

Women face Butler in finale 
Rice 


MUST LIQUIDATE ENTIRE STOCK! 
L.A. GEAR LADIES OVER 3.000 fAJll 
LAST CALLI!! THE CONCLUDING CHAPTER OF A WEST COAST MUSICAUMEDICAL EXPERIMENT! 
IN THEIR FINAL ALIVE PERFORMANCE ON STAGE UNDER THE LIGHTS FOR THE LAST TIME FOREVER-­
MAD HOD SHOCK' DR. JAM'THE YOUNG R.C.'MISS JON I MARTIN'THE DUKE OF JONES AND STEVE MAD DOG PETRILL 
CORVALLIS CALLING CORVALLIS CALLING 
THIS SATURDAY UNCENSORED AT MCCORMICK'S 10-2. 
PROFESSIONAL COUPLE DESIRES TO ADOPT BABY. WILL KEEP YOU INFORMED OF THE CHILD'S DEVELOPMENT IF YOU DESIRE. EXPENSES PAID. CALL 0-317-298-8548 OR ATIORNEY 0-317-882-9799 (ref#89-129). 
........................BEST OF LUCK TO THE CAST OF THE FANTASTICKS: 
PAUL SALVATORIELLO KATYBLAKEY JOHN MCKEE LOU LAGRANGE FRAN FEELEY 
JASON W1NSLADE JEFF SIMERVILLE SARAH ESTERLINE 
TODAY THRU SATURDAY Washington Hall 7:30 pm Tickets: LaFortune Info Desk 
Matthew Ashford is hot! I!! 

... 
On your STUDENT SEXUALITY SURVEY, you wrote "If there is a forum, please publicize before for speakers. You may be quite suprised and I feel I'm a good representative." There WILL be a Symposium 
next year, and we are inter· ested in hearing from you. Please call Mike at 2045. Thanks. 
Joe, YOU ARE NOT GIVING UP ON THE CPA, I won't let you. You have at least 3 1/2 days left to review, I know you can do it. I love you and I know that you'll do very well. Love, Kelley 
The Boathouse Blues Band The BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND The Boathouse Blues Band Alive, but in a cold sweat... at Bridget's FRIDAY 27@ 10:00 
'PHOENIX PHOENIY PHOENIZ' LIVE LIVE LIVE FOR THE LAST TIME GRAND FINALE YEE HAH BLOWOUT @ CLUB 23 23 23 
FRIDAY APRIL 27 9:30-5:00 

... 
FEATURING VERY SPECIAL GUEST 'THE ASHES' . AN ACAPPELLA GROUP EXTRORDINAREI FEEL THE THUNDER /RIDE THE LIGHTENING . REALLY. ALSO: SEE PHOENIX@ THE NAZZ COMPETITION SAT 12:15! 
Going to VIRGINIA after finals? Need a rider? Call Christine at 284-4345. 

By BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team will face its final opponent of the season in a mateh against the Bulldogs of Butler University today at :~:30 at home. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback expeets a solid mateh from the Bulldogs, who finished third in last fall's MCC competition. Although the Irish took first in the MCC tournament, Louderback was cautious about underestimating his foe. 
"They're solid," said the eoach. "They have four or five seniors, so they're a veteran team. I hope we win, but you never know. They're not bad at all." 
The Butler competition will mark tlw rnturn of Irish top s11ed Tracy Barton, who has benn sidelined with an elbow injury for a month. Barton has benn practicing since Easter. but has not eompetl~d for fear of further injury. 
Tlw m the team's two seniors, captain Alice Lohrer and Resa Kelly. Louderback praised the two for their performance during the season. 
"Resa has helped us out a lot this season," said Louderback. "With all the injuries we've had this season, she's come in and played very well. 
''I'm hoping to play just about everyone [tomorrow[, and both seniors will be playing for sure." 
The end of the season marks the beginning of the NCAA tournament selection. Although the tournament does not begin until May 14, seeding for indi­viduals will start next Monday, and the Irish are hoping to se­cure a bid for Tracy Barton. 
Louderback, though he hopes to gain a bid for Barton, is un­sure of her chances in being chosen. 
"I don't know," said the coach. "I can't really say now. Voting is going to be tight on the regional level. and tight on the national level. All we can do 
for the best." 

SPORTS BRIEFS Fisher Hall's "On the Grass Classic", two-person volley­
ball t_ournament, will be held this weekend, April 28-29. Cost ts ten dollars per team and all proceeds will go to Andre House, a shelter for the homeless in Phoenix, Ariz. Anyone wishing to enter the tournament should contact Tim Maloney at 283-1939 or stop by Room 140 in Fisher. 
Deadline for entry is Friday at 7 p.m. 
Women's Lacrosse practice will be held today and the rest of this week at 4:00 p.m. in front of Angela. If you can't make the game this Saturday call Jeff (234-9878). 
Women Lacrosse players remember to bring money for gas for all the drivers this past weekend. 
Free Coke Squeeze bottles will be given to the first 300 fans at Saturday's lacrosse match vs. Ohio State at 4 p.m. at Krause Stadium. In addition, there will be beach music and a halftime frisbee accuracy contest. 
Women's Varsity Cross Country and Track and Field. Beginning in the fall, women's track and field will be a varsity sport at Notre Dame. Any women interested in competing in track and/or cross country are asked to at­tend a brief meeting on Wednesday, May 2 at 4:00 p.m. in the Loftus Auditorium. Any further questions. please call the Track Office at 239-6989. 
Reebok Supershot contestants should reoort to the 
courts behind the Bookstore at 2:45 on Friday. 
yontinued from page 24 .51 Perhaps Rice and Harris will take some consolation in the success former Irish quarter­back Joe Theismann and Houston Oilers signalcaller Warren Moon enjoyed in the NFL following periodic stints in Canada. The .NFL draft isn't always the ulttmate authority when it comes to rating football talent. But then again, neither is the Heisman Trophy balloting. 
What does Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz think about Rice being snubbed by the NFL? 
. "He wasn't going to go real htgh because he wasn't consis­tent as a passer," said Holtz. "In the late rounds, you're bet­ter off not to draft him because he's probably going to go to the Canadian League. 
"There. are a lot of high­round ptcks that don't pan out," said Holtz. "I hate to think he would let his self­confidence ride on someone who's not always right." 

STUDENTS SAVE 
10% 
AND LOfS OF TIME-Let us pack and ship your belongings back home for the summer, or to wherever your new career leads you! 
NOTHING IS TOO LARGE OR TOO SMALL! 
=8DXE5RLll5==•. 
SHIF?ING + PACKING + CRATING 
MOVING & SWHAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
PLEASE PRESENT THIS 

COUPON AT THE TIME OF 
PURCHASE OR SHIPANG 
M·F 9AM · 7PM SAT lOAM -7PM SUN NOON -5:30PM

[vtSA Ill.!Ill 277-5555 
Between T.J. Maxx and Venture 
Class 
continued from page 15 
MARKO OF 801 P.E. THANKS FOR STORYTELLING HOUR! LOVE, YOUR FAN CLUB. 
CATHY OLSEN is the MCAT goddess. Watch in awe as she jams on the MCATS! 
---GOOD LUCK CATHY--­
Rob and Fred, If you wimp out on us this week we'll do more than entertain you in the privacy of your offices. XXOO, Herbie, Ally and the Otter 
Well, I just realized I haven't put a personal in ALL YEAR, so I figured, what BETIER day than today?! 
-Kirsten 

Mula, you whore!! Hope those 7­footer SMCs kicked all your all's asses. Happy An Tostal! Cheers and Beers, your favorite SMCers, Christine and Slammin'. 

I 
I 
I 
I I By MICHAEL MALODY to show us that they can com­hind the plate. 
Sports Writer pete." Sunday's doubleheader The heat of the burden will matches the Irish against MCC 
The Notre Dame softball be in the hands of Staci Alford foe Marquette. The Wisc.onsin­team try to improve on its 29-and Missy Linn, the aces of the based Ladv Warriors were ab­14 record when it hosts three Irish pitching staff. Alford, a sent from last weekend's con­games this weekend. . freshman out of Baton Rouge, ference tournament, won by the 
The Irish will welcome the Louisiana, boasts a team lead­Irish. Belles of Saint Mary's at 4 p.m. ing 1.39 ERA. Linn, a sopho­Depending on the amount Saturday and the Lady more all-MCC performer, is a of action Alford and Linn face Warriors of Marquette for a close second with a 1.44 ERA. on Saturday, coach Boulac doubleheader starting at 1 p.m. Between them, they account for could go to his bullpen, where on Sunday, all at Alumni Field. 26 of the team's 29 victories. freshmen Erion Kelley and 
Offensively, the Irish will Ronny Alvarez provide an ampleSaturday's "cross-lake depend on the power of juniors supply of depth. 
classic" against Saint Mary's, 

Kathryn Vernetti, Megan Fay,
added to the Irish schedule due and Rachel Crossen, as well as Sophomore co-Captainto the rain-cancellation of an that of sophomore Amy Ruth Kmak, along with fellow 

early-season contest with 

Folsom. The foursome has ac-classmate Laurie Sommerlad,Temple, promises to be an in­counted for five of the six Irish anchors the middle infield for 
tense battle, according to head home runs and more than half the Irish. Lisa Miller, Sheri coach Brian Boulac. Due, in of the team's runs batted in. Quinn, Casey McMurray and large part, to the success of the Co-Captain Vernetti will start Susan O'Connor, all freshmen, team up to date, Boulac ex­at first base, Fay and Crossen are also expected to contribute plained, "They are going to try in the outfield, and Folsom be-to thP. Irish line-up. 

Lemieux gives Chicago a 3-2 series lead over St. Louis 
CHICAGO (AP) -Jocelyn her how it happened. I went in Tuttle at 10:21 and the Lemieux::S first playoff goal and the puck was right there. Blackhawks' penalty-killers started the big flurry that led I've got one of the worst shoot­went to work. Chicago kept the the Chicago Blackhawks to vic­ing percentages in the playoffs. St. Louis power play in check tory Thursday night, but he I thought I should try to get for all but 48 seconds of the couldn't remember how it hap­this one." five-minute penalty when Hull pened. The spurt was all the offense scored at 14:33 to cut the lead 
Lemieux's breakaway goal the Blackhawks needed as to 3-2. was followed by scores by Troy rookie goalie Ed Belfour took Murray and Steve Thomas care of the rest. Making his within a span of 2:16 to give second successive winning start the Blackhawks a 3-2 victory against the Blues, Belfour had and a 3-2 edge in their best-of-to turn back only 18 shots, in­7 Norris Division final series cluding seven in a scoreless fi­against the St.Louis Blues. nal period. 
"It was a reaction play," Thomas drew a game mis­Lemieux said, "I can't remem-r,onduct for slashing Steve 
-
STEAKS fflfi) 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
...

PRIME RIB if;-r-....FrWay lliglll...._. ...._.
_.-....ylnD
S£AFOOD ~IC 
219-259-9925
112-oc . 


Summer 
TORAGE 
RESERVATION 
CALL NOWI 683-19591 
• 
'\" ~RY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
2V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 •GATESOPENALLDAYSUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
ARE YOU CONCERNED ABOUT: 
* 
female I male stereotypes on campus? 

* 
date and acquaintance rape? 

* 
sexual harassment and discrimination? 


*the changing structure of the family in the '90's? 
... 
Anyone interested in working on the WOMEN'S CONCERNS COMISSION for next year: Contact RITA ROBINETT X2897 
page 20 The Observer 
ND softball battles Belles, Warriors 
Friday, April 27, 1990 
The Chicago Blackhawks had reason to celebrate last night as they took a 3-2 lead in their best-of-seven series against St. Louis. 
, lanon doin~ mymeonmyMac. An makingMacmtoshtxU1 ofmywe." Bob Reich Sophc:more Accoonring Major Univmity of Notte Dame There's alot more to an Apple' time-and for not-so-serious stuff, too. Macintosh• computer than just something to Having my own Macintosh is a big plus make a resume look good. Sure, it's got the now, and Iknow it'll give me an edge in the real capability to improve the look of practically any world, too. I'll be able to interface my Mac with document. But once you get beyond Macintosh mainframes and MS-DOS' computers and still as just an elegant fonnaning tool, you begin to have the ease-of-use that Macintosh is famous understand why it's becoming so widely for. And that'll make me work better for accepted in the business world. My Mac® can whoever Iwork for. crunch numbers with the best of them. It just Macintosh is going to make my resume plain makes me more efficient in everything look better-in more ways than one. I do. That frees me up for serious book NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00  


Friday, April27, 1990 The Observer 
Men's golf to play in Kepler Invite 
By STEVEN WALSH Although Notre Dame placed confident with our game be-Sports Writer 25th out of only 32 teams in cause of it." Akron, it was a successful out-Notre Dame will face some 
The Notre Dame men's ing nonetheless. The competi-formidable opponents in the golf team travels to Columbus, tion was the strongest from the Kepler, especially Ohio State, Ohio this weekend to compete midwest and the course was which is defending the title for in the Hobert Kepler tougher than any the Irish had the 9th straight time, Invitational tournament. It will ever played. Wisconsin, and Kent State. mark the 16th straight appear­. Leading the way for the Irish 
The contrast between OhiO will be senior co-captain Patance in the Kepler for the State's Scarlet Course and the Mohan who has led the team inrapidly improving Irish. The Akron ,cou~se, Fire~tone six out of eight tournamentseoachns and golfers arc very Country Club IS encouragmg for this season and leads the teamoptimistic about this year's the Irish. 
tournamnnt because of the in scoring average. 
tnam 's recent progress. "Firestone was a very tight Notre Dame will also hope 
Last year. the Irish and demanding course, and for contributions from junior recorded a team stroke total of most of the time there wasn't a co-captain Paul Nolta, sopho­'J31J, their lowest 54-hole score lot of space to work with. I more Mike O'Connell, and nver in the Kepler. That was think it was very challenging freshmen Joe Dennen and Chris 
good enough for eighth place, for our team and they learned a Dayton. their highest finish in the lot from it." Notre Dame assis­"This tournament is a 
Invitational since 1980. That tant coach Joe Thomas said. chance for our team to peak performance combined with "The Scarlet Course is a great right before the end of the sea­last weekend's good showing in layout and it is wide-open, so it son," Thomas says, "and I be­the Akron Invitational have is not as demanding as most of lieve that we're due to have a given the Irish rnason to be up­the courses we've played this good tournament and finish in 
beat about this weekend. year, and we should be more the top third of the field." 
Special to the Observer in hot pursuit of an NCAA tournament bid.
Women will golf in Boilermaker Classic 
The Notre Dame men's tennis ''I'm looking forward to By FRANK BARLETTA the one at Purdue. Hanlon is best, we could be in contention team will host two opponents playing drake on national tele­Sports Writer confident that his team has im­to win it." and a television audience on vision," Irish Coach Bob Bayliss 
proved enough to finish re­Hanlon hopes to get strong Saturday as Drake visits for an said. "Drake had a good show­The Notre Dame women's spectably this weekend. efforts from four of the team's 11 a.m. match and Marquette ing at the Blue-Grey golf team will wrap up its Although the field at the six members if the team is to will take on the Irish immedi­Tournament earlier in the spring season this weekend at Boilermaker Invitational in­make a respectable showing. ately after the end of the Drake spring and should be a tough the Boilermaker Invitational at cludes Big 10 powers Purdue The team will be led by junior match. match. 
Purdue University. and Wisconsin, the field is "not captain Roberta Bryer, who has SportsChannel America will Sophomore sensation David The 1 ()-team competition, as strong as the one at a team-low average of 82.67 televise the number one singles DiLucia dropped five places to 
consisting of 36 holes on Indiana-Bloomington three strokes this spring. and number one doubles 26th in the Volvo Saturday and 18 on Sunday, weeks ago," said Hanlon. Hanlon has already begun matches of the Drake contest Tennis/Collegiate Tennis rank­will mark the first time the This weekend's tournament looking forward to next sea­on a tape delay basis. The date ings. He boasts a 20-3 record Irish have participated in this will include several teams that, son. The young team will not and time of broadcast has not this spring. established tournament since like the Irish, have not had var­lose any players to graduation yet been determined. The doubles teams will be led gaining varsity status last year. sity women's teams for long, this year, and five players re­by the first doubles duo of 
The team is hoping to make including Bradley, Cincinnati, cruited by Hanlon have been These will be the last home DiLucia and Wallace which is up for its last-place finish at and Miami of Ohio. accepted at Notre Dame, matches for the Irish this sea­ranked eighth in the nation and the Indiana Invitational three "We're capable of scoring although some of them may son and the last home appear­sports a 13-3 record. weeks ago. Head Coach Tom lower than we have been," said choose to play elsewhere. ances for graduating seniors The match with Drake will be I !anion has been working with Hanlon. "We've been scoring Walter Dolhare and Mike billed as "Breakfast at the team at the Elcona Country lower in each tournament. I Wallace. Notre Dame is coming Courtney" and the first 200 Club, which Hanlon says think we'll finish in the top five off a last Sunday's big win over fans at the meet will be treated 
fficult course and donuts. 
Tickets available at LaFortune Info. Desk **Admittance: $2.00 &$1.00 with Student I.D. 
FOUNDER OF EARTH DAY 
Greening of American Politics 
.. 
"Who really believes that producing fleets of Stealth bombers is more important to our survival and our economic well-being than ensuring the quality of our air, 
water, and tand?" WASHINGTON HALL 
8:00pm 
MONDAY * APRIL 30th 
.... 
FMR. SENATOR 
GA VLORD NELSON 


Sponsored by: Student Union Board, The Reilly Center for Science Technology and Values, Environmental Action Club (EAC), Center for Social Concerns, and The Schurz Foundation 
j 
~---~----------.., 
,_p'""'ag..._e_22_______________________T_h_e_O_bs_e_rv_e_r___________________F_r_id_a-=...c..y, April 27, 1990 
Irish lacrosse will host Ohio State 
NO must defeat Buckeyes to keep tourney hopes alive 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team continues its quest for an NCAA Tournament bid as it faces off with Ohio State Buckeyes this Saturday at 4 
p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Irish, who suffered a painful road loss to the Battling Bishops of Ohio Wesleyan in their last outing, are 7-6 on the season, and still in the hunt for a tournament bid. Yet the Buckeyes, who stand at 5-5 this season, must be contended with if Notre Dame wishes to be the best in the midwest. 
"This is a big game for us," said Notre Dame head coach Kevin Corrigan. "Ohio State has a good, young team, and they match up well with us. We know how good they can play. We've got to prepare ourselves to play the best game of the season. We've got too much at stake right now. It's time to put up or shut up." 
Ohio State returns 26 letter­men from last year's squad, which was only 5-9 but man­aged to even up the lifetime series with Notre Dame at 6-6 in a 7-5 win over the Irish in Columbus. This year, the Buckeyes have been led by ju­nior tri-captain Mike Avery, who averages in excess of four points per game. 
The Irish will be looking for several players to key their at­tack. Senior attackman Brian McHugh, who is currently sixth on the Notre Dame lacrosse all­time scoring list, is a potent threat, averaging nearly 2.5 points per game. McHugh is complemented by sophomore attacking sensation Mike Sullivan, who, with 29 assists. 
Detroit 
continued from page 24 
Maisano is used to adverse conditions. At 5-8 and 240 pounds, Maisano is not the prototype baseball player. 
"People see me and they say. 'no way is he a baseball player.' But I love the game so much. Coach Murphy told me when 
you have a skill, make it a strong skill. In this game if you can hit you can play." 
Murphy hopes that all his players, especially the other

" 
freshmen, adapt to adversity the way Maisano has. "Adam has had to overcome a lot in life." said Murphy. "He continues to battle adversity every day. He's as mentally tough as any freshman can be." 
Maisano has had a lot of help to reach the point he's at now. His father played baseball at Fairleigh Dickinson and he has two brothers who have played baseball at Georgia Tech. His brother Anthony, a senior for the Yellowjackets, recently broke the ACC homerun mark. 
"They all had a huge influence on me," said Maisano. "I was never pressured to play any sport, but I've always believed that it's good to have achiev­able goals, something to aim at. My brothers have helped me there as well as with my hit­ting." 
Maisano may be a long way from home, but with the sup­port of his teammates and his ability to hit, he'll have a suc­cessful career at Notre Dame. 
AMERICAN CANCER
SOCIETY. 



...,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........~,.,.,.,.~~~,.~ 

Lax on the beach! 
with Notre Dame Lacrosse 
Well. there won't be any sand. really, but there will be: A DJ and beach music beginning one hour before game tim a Frisbee accuracy contest at halftime (B.Y.O.F.) *free Coke squeeze bottles to the first 300 fans* a great lacrosse match 
Catch Irish lacrosse 1n a pivotal game for. a bid to the NCAAs 
Notre Dame vs. Ohio State at 4 pm on Saturday after the Blue-Gold game at Moose Krause Stadium 
(behind the JACC) 
needs one assist to set a new Notre Dame record for assists in a season. 
Sullivan has also set the 
records for points by a sopho­more (46), assists at home (seven), and points at home (nine), in addition to tying the records for points in a game (nine) and assists in a game (seven). In addition, Sullivan scores at a pace of 3.5 points per game, and is seven goals short of the Notre Dame record for goals by a sophomore. 
Beyond McHugh and Sullivan, the Irish offense is driven by a throng of talented attackers and midfielders. Senior co-cap­tain midfielders Dave Carey and Mike Quigley have each scored an average of nearly two points per game, in addition to gar­nering more than their share of ground balls. 
Two other midfielders who have provided a pleasant punch to the Irish offense are fresh­men Brian Mayglothling and Ed Lamb. Mayglothling and Lamb are the fifth and sixth highest Irish scorers this year, and Lamb's 11 goals is the best by a Notre Dame midfielder. Also, Mayglothling, whose nine as­sists are the most ever by a Notre Dame freshman mid­fielder, needs only six more as­sists to set the Notre Dame season record for assists by a freshman. 
The Irish may also count on senior attackman Mike Sennet and freshman attackman Bo Perriello for extra offensive support. Sennet has tallied 10 goals and three assists this season, while Perriello has added six goals and three as­sists. 
The Irish defensive corps is also a force to be reckoned with. Defenseman Pete Gillin 
Unitedway
• 

has scooped up an amazing 61 ground balls this season while frustrating opposing offenses. Behind Gillin and his defensive mates are goalies Chris Parent and Tom Duane. Parent, who has started eight games and appeared in nine, has a save percentage of .557, while Duane, through five starts and 
eight total appearances, has a save percentage of .530. 
"We're always optimistic," stated Irish mentor Kevin Corrigan. "We approach every game expecting to win, and we have to play like that all week if we are going to do it. We cer­tainly have the will to win, but it's important that we take care of business this weekend." 
NOTES: The match with Ohio State has been dubbed "Lax on the Beach." Featured at the promotion day will be a disc jockey, with beach music begin­ning one hour before game time, and a Frisbee accuracy contest at halftime (B.Y.O.F.). Free Coca-Cola squeeze bottles will be distributed to the first 300 fans. 
The Observer/L.A. Scott 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team faces a crucial test when Ohio State visits Moose Krause Stadium Saturday. 
HOLY CROSS PARISH 1520 Vassar Avenue South Bend, IN 46628 
219 233 2179 

MALE GRADUATE HOUSING I $170 permo 
Furnished sleeping rooms. Bed, dresser, desk, telephone hook-up, eating & cooking areas, & laundry facilities provided. 
9 month lease 

The Unlverslt~ Libraries of Notre Dame c.')lebrate 
National Library Week April 22-28, 1990 
Special Library Line -239-6680 
Mooday -'lbunday. 10:00 &m. -~ PM. April 23-26, 1990 
Make suggestions! Get answers! University Libraries' administrators will handle calls! 
Win $50 Database search Register at Hesburgh or any of the five branch database locations Six winners will be drawn 
University Libraries-check them out! 
• 
• 


Friday, April 27, 1990 The Observer page 23 

CAMPUS 

7:30 p.m. Musical Comedy, "The Fantasticks." Pre­sented by the Notre Dame Student Players. Washington Hall. Tickets reqnircd. Sponsored by SUB Performing Arts. 
7:3G-and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Scandal," Annenberg Au­ditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. Admission. 
8 p.m. Wind Ensemble Concert. Little Theatre, Saint Mary's. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT Friday 
3:30 p.m. Lecture, "High Temperature Superconductiv­ity: Past, Present and Future," Dr. Paul Chu, University of Houston. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by the Charles Edison Fund and the Colleges of Engineering and Science. 
4:30 
p.m. Lecture, "Analytic Continuation of Bounded Holomorphic Functions in the Polydisc," Dr. Peter Polyakov, Newton, Massachusetts. Room 226 Math Build­ing. Coffee in Room 201 at 4. Sponsored by Dept. of Mathematics. 

4:30 
p.m. Lecture, "Internal and External Aspects of German Unification," Ingrid Baumgartner, Vice Consul, Consulate of the Federal Republic of Germany in Detroit. Room 101 Decio. Sponsored by the Dept. of German and Hussian Languages and Literatures, the Institute of In­ternational Peace Studies and the German Club of Notre Dame. 


7 p.m. Poetry reading/lecture, by Pat Mora, writer, lecture, consultant from Cincinnati, OH; Genaro Gonzalez, University of Texas, Pan American College; Evangelinia Vigil-Pinion, public information coordinator, Cultural Arts Council. Houston, TX; H.R. Hinojosa Smith, Profes­sor of English. University of Texas at Austin. Carroll Au­ditorium, Madeleva llall. Saint Mary's. Sponsored by MINT office. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
1 S\G~£0 UP Ttl Pl~'{ B~St.Bt>.ll. £~ER.'I Rt:c~S, A~O I IX>~\ E.'~tN LIKE 
BA~BALL 
T\lf>,\ t-\UG\ 


ACROSS 22 Actress Lynn from Roanoke 
1 Plain and blunt 
23 Ardennes article 6 Understand 
24 Pare down 11 Cape Town ear 
25 Actress Debra 
of corn 

26 Jet-set must 12 Counts (on) 
28 Wainscoting 14 Jabber, jabber, 
29 Rushing wildly Jabber 

31 Moved .7Walking­
purposefully(overjoyed) 
34 Sporty car 18 Writer Laos 
38 Yonder 19 Scoreboard 39 Dry bath entry 
40 Samara feature 20 London gallery 
41 Island off 21 Hangs down Donegal 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
MENUS 

Notre Dame 
Fried Perch Pasta Bar Monterey Muffin Melt Apple Cheddar Quiche 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

Bookand~cs 
byTOMJONES Music by 
HARVEY SCHMIDT 
Thunday, April 28th thru 
u~~e 10 Saturday,April 28th 7:30pm Washington HaD 
J{!!..&.­

$6 Gena-a! Public $3 Student&&niorCitizens 
f;!lX) t IO~IS 


ReservedSeatingTickets 
are avaDable at the 
t..&~Shi~ ~· 
LaFortuneStudent Center • Bm: Oft'ice. Phone: 239-8128 
laP-­
CROSSWORD 

42 Pilar's man in a Hemingway classic 
43 Petty dispute 44 Part of A.MA 45 Statue base 46 Number before 
ocho 47 Carouse 50 Mean 51 Secures a sail 52 Terminal 53 Trenchant 
DOWN 
1 Is connected 2 He played 
Mussolini 3 Cell follow-on 4 Pen end 5 Du Pants' 
bailiwick 6 Unbleached and 
undyed cloth 7 Takes a breather 8 Spanish court 
dance 9"To-With Love" 
10 Bluebloods 11 Next day for Julio 

=+=:+.:.+=-! 13 Horse mackerel 14 Sum 15 Fixed 

16 Emulates  30Wheel of  39 Closet stash  
Defarge  fortune?  42 Loris's kin  
21 Make points 22 Hairdo effect 24 Hammett sleuth  31 Impression 32 Lisle, e.g.  43 Inasmuch as 45 Street sign  
25 Ling Ling. for  33 Got set  46 Chug-a-lug  
one 21 Utter disdain  35 Like the Trylon  48 El Paso-to-K.C. dir.  
28 Nero's  36 Gladdens  49 Fort near  
instrument  37 Considered  Monterey  

Saint Mary's 
Veal Parmesan Broccoli Cheddar Quiche Baked Haddock Dijonaise Deli Bar 
·" 
SPEL,.UNKER JAY HOSLER 

F£\IJ wOMEN CAN 
RE~IST HIM HE. HA-.5 

-
vlo~ 

Sports 
Friday, April27, 1990
page 24 

Irish football team will hold annual spring Blue-Gold game 
Holtz predicts scoreless tie 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 

Lou Holtz looked down intently and pawed at the ground with his left foot, mulling over the question put before him following Tuesday's in­trasquad scrimmage. 
What will Saturday's Blue-Gold game be like? 
After discarding several ideas, Holtz finally settled on an answer that put the first 19 spring practice sessions into perspective. He raised his head, smiled and said, "A zero-zero game." 
The defense dominated Tuesday's scrimmage, Notre Dame's final tuneup before its 60th annual spring football finale (1:30 p.m. at Notre Dame Stadium). Fifteen lost-yardage plays, including six sacks, found the Irish offense marching down the field, but in the wrong direction. 
-Holtz complained about the lack of timing and execution on the offensive line, dropped passes and sloppy pass routes from the receivers, a lack of experience and leadership at quarterback, and "too many people playing on our (the offensive) side of the ball". Yet the smile came as a sign of reassurance for the Irish offense which Holtz spent the majority of Tuesday's scrimmage chastising-an offense that will have to come together as a unit if Notre Dame is to imitate its remarkable 24-1 record over the past two years. Quarterback Rick Mirer is the only offensive starter to be named by Holtz after the first 19 practices. He will line up behind center Lance Johnson on Saturday for the Blue offense. Mirer will have a talented cast of receivers to throw to, including flanker Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, split end Ray Griggs and tight end Derek Brown. Ricky Watters, who was moved to split end at the beginning of the spring, will start at tailback for the Blue squad. Watters will be joined in the backfield by fullback Rod Culver, who returned from a knee sprain to rush for 121 yards on Tuesday. "Rod Culver had a real good day," Holtz said. "It's nice to see him back." Jake Kelchner will quarterback the Gold of­fense, backed by a line that includes center Gene McGuire, tight guard Mirko Jurkovic and tight tackle Justin Hall. Tailback Dorsey Levens and fullback Kenny Spears give the Gold team a solid 1-2 punch in the backfield. The Irish assistant coaches divided the squad in a player draft following Tuesday's scrimmage. Two Notre Dame alumni and businessmen, John 
W. "Jay" Jordan (class of '69) and Vince Naimoli (class of '59), will be the honorary coaches. 
"The draft will be even," said Holtz, "but somebody like Zorro (nose tackle Chris Zorich) or (defensive tackle George) 'Boo' Williams can dominate." 
Strange, then, that Zorich and Williams should end up on the same squad. The two seniors-to-be anchor a Gold defensive line which also features tackle Eric Jones, who had two sacks for minus­16 yards in Tuesday's scrimmage. 
see BLUE I page 17 
Irish baseball team to meet Titans 
By MIKE KAMRADT in raising the team average to about what it takes to be a Sports Writer . 272. One of those leading the great hitter . 
charge for the Irish is freshman "Adam was a hitter from day 
Things will only get tougher DH and pinch hitter Adam one," said Murphy. "He's got from here on out for the Notre Maisano. Maisano is hitting incredible bat speed and power. 

Dame baseball team. 
After sweeping four from Chicago State this week, the Irish (29-9) travel into a lion's den this weekend to face the Detroit Titans (7 -5 in MCC). 
Bookstore Basketball: 
Results, Photos, Predictions and more: See special edition of Irish Extra inside 


The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Dorsey Levens will carry the ball for the Gold team in the annual Blue-Gold scrimmage, which will be held at 1:30 p.m. Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Draft shQws that NFL, NCAA play different game 
Last weekend's National Football 
a late-round pick on Rice, while Los League draft sent a clear message Angeles made Harris the 317th of to the NCAA: You don't play the Frank Pastor ~31 players taken. NFL clubs opted same game we do. mstead to take lesser-known play­
How else can one explain the near Football Notebook ers in a draft whose talent pool was omission of two of last season's more shallow than those in recent five Reisman Trophy finalists from years. the two-day draft lists? Rice led Notre Dame to a 28-3 According to NFL scouts and 
Quarterbacks Major Harris, a record and the 1988 National draft experts, neither had the 12th-round selection of the Los Championship in his two-plus sea­"tools" to make it in the NFL. The Angeles Raiders, and Tony Rice, sons as a starter. If not for last knock on Rice was that he could not who was not taken at all, represent season's Miami loss, Rice very well fit into an offense requiring a drop­
the height of the college game. Yet may have won the Heisman based back, pocket passer. Harris was an 
neither was considered ready for on his winning reputation alone. erratic passer whose lack of height the NFL. But would he have been drafted and speed concerned NFL scouts. The draft dealt a serious blow to even then? The biggest rationale given for the notion that college football is Harris revived a dormant West not taking either Rice or Harris in 
nothing more than a breeding Virginia program and led it to two the mid-to-late rounds of the draft ground for professional football straight bowl appearances, includ­is that both had considered playing players. ing a shot at the national title in the north of the border and therefore 
Harris finished third in the '89 '89 Fiesta Bowl against the Irish. would be wasted picks. Harris had Heisman vote, which recognizes the The Mountaineers lost both of already talked to British Columbia most outstanding player in college those bowl games, but suppose they of the Canadian Football League. football. Rice came in fourth in the did not. With a national title under 
Rice travelled to Saskatchewan this final tally. But the best the college his belt, would Harris move up very week to speak with team represen­game had to offer simply was not far in the draft? tatives. 
see RICE I page 19
good enough for the NFL. No team was willing to risk even 
----------------------~~----------~~~=-========~ 
.429 with 3 HR's and 17 RBI. He's done a super job as a 
As the DH Wednesday, Maisano pinch hitter and filling in at was 3-for-4 with 4 RBI. In the DH. But even more than that second inning of the first game, he's a great person. He's got Maisano launched one into the great work habits and he's a stratosphere with a 420-foot pleasure to coach." comet. Maisano certainly has made 
"That was a bomb," stated the most of his opportunities. Murphy. "It was the pasta, In his first official at-bat for though. His mom sent up some the Irish, he hit a pinch home pasta that day. " run against Dayton that turned "The day before I was swing­out to be the game winner. ing at a lot of pitches," said Now, Maisano is becoming a 
Last year the Titans took six of Maisano. "Coach wants me to guy the team looks for to get eight from the Irish in the regu­keep swinging at curves and the big hit. lar season so they know they!l:e changes because I have to hit "That (the Dayton game) was up against a quality team. them, but he said sometimes a great situation. The team re­"They lost one pitcher and one you have to wait for your pitch. ally got behind me. I love to be hitter, but besides that they're On that homer I waited and got counted on like that. It feels re­intact," said Irish coach Pat a fastball." ally good to contribute. I knew Murphy. Maisano, who hails from I could hit, but I wanted to help 
Both teams hope the intensity Atlanta, Georgia, is without a the team with it. I love to pinch• of the rivalry doesn't escalate question a hitter. From the hit with guys on base: I'm a lot to the point of last year's two posters of Jose Canseco and more comfortable with runners 
bench-clearing brawls. Don Mattingly that adorn his in scoring position." The hitters have gone wall to himself, it is evident 
through a resurgence as of late Maisano knows a good deal 
see DETROIT I page 22 








