
VOL. XX Ill NO. 106 FRIDAY. MARCH 9, 1990 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
HUD secretary seeks immunity 
WASHINGTON (AP) -House investigators said Thursday they will seek immunity for a onetime top housing official in exchange for tes­timony about agency grants and contracts un­der former HUD Secretary Samuel Pierce Jr. 
Sources said the investigators are seeking tes­timony that Pierce made politically tainted con­tract awards while secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development during the Reagan administration. 
The former official, Dubois Gilliam, is serving a federal prison sentence for a conviction in a HUD-related case. 
Rep. Tom Lantos, D-Calif., chairman of the House subcommittee that has been investigating HUD for nearly a year, said at a news confer­ence Gilliam "was a key player" in awarding HUD grants under several programs, including the secretary's discretionary fund. 
"He will provide information that is otherwise unavailable to the subcommittee and is critical to our investigation of HUD," Lantos said. 
"Mr. Gilliam's testimony will open new areas not dealt with previously by the subcommittee," said Lantos.
rhe Observer/L.A. Scott
Reflecting on mid-terms? 
Lantos said he had the support of the panel's Republican members. The panel plans to vote 
Students pray at the Grotto, perhaps for an 'A' on a test or a safe Spring Break, while the weather was still nice earlier in 
Tuesday to ask a federal court to grant "use 
the week. see HUD/ page 6 
Outbreak in South African tribal violence due to activists 
JOHANNESBUHG. South form. but are in effect not He said tension had been apartheid activist. Tswana republic be re-incorpo­Africa (AP) -Anti-apartheid ready to do so," he said, ap­building in some of the 10 "There may be leadm-s and rated into South Africa. activists arc behind an out-parently referring to the homelands, which the apartheid groups who are encouraging Soldiers and police in ar­break of violence in tribal African National Congress and system has designated as the this type of behavior," he said. mored personnel carriers and homelands because they don't other leading black groups, national states where the black If true, "then I must brand trucks randomly opened fire want to negotiate, the govern--"They have been caught on majority of 28 million can own these adults cowards who do with assault rifles to stop ment suggested Thursday. the wrong foot by the initiatives land and exercise political not have the interests of our crowds forming in the 
"The violence is certainly part of the state president," Viljoen rights. nation at heart," Mogoba said. Garankuwa area, witnesses of an overall plan to destabilize said. "The language of violence, said. the country and make it diffi-ANC spokesman Pallo Jordan looting and arson reveals the Homeland army troops fired cult to commence negotia-in Lusaka, Zambia denied that bitterness in the hearts of many automatic rifles, shotguns, Youths erected barricades of tions." said Constitutional De-the recently legalized organiza­of our people, but it is senseless rubber bullets and tear gas at burned out vehicles to block velopment Minister Gerrit tion was behind the violence, and savage in the extreme," protesters and used whips to streets, but were chased away Viljoen. which has led to 200 deaths in said the Rev. Stanley Mogoba, disperse crowds in Bo­by soldiers and police who tore 
"It is quite clear that certain the past month, according to president of the Methodist phuthatswana, where demon­down the barriers, eyewitnesses clements pretend to be keen on Business Day newspaper in Jo­Church of Southern Africa and strators are demanding that said. There were no immediate participating in negotiating l'e-hannesburg. a prominent black anti-the nominally independent reports of casualties. 

Father Malloy designates
Bush transpo plan taxes travelers 
WASHINGTON (AP) -dustry groups, but most ex­willing to pay if they get im­
90-91 "Year of the Woman" 
offer an opportunity for the Notre Dame community to fo­cus on the achievements and contributions that women have made to society and education," said Kolman. 
The year will focus on re­search and scholarship by women and achievements of women on the Notre Dame campus. It will highlight the changing role of women in soci­ety, said Kolman. 
"The Year of the Woman will build on what we have been working on for the past two years," said Kolman. The "Year of Cultural Diversity" was cele­brated at Notre Dame in 1988­89, and the "Year of the Fam­ily" is being observed during 1989-90. 
LAST ISSUE 
This is the last regular is­sue of The Observer before Spring Break. The Observer will resume publication on Tuesday, March 20. The Observer wishes everyone a fun and safe Spring Break. 
President Bush announced a national transportation pol­icy Thursday that would cost travelers more and increase local governments' share in meeting air. land and sea travel needs into the next century. 
Just as the Model T and the Wright brothers' plane "prepared the way for to­day's millions of cars and thousands of passenger jets, so it is now our turn to in­vest in America's future," Bush said in unveiling the policy with Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner. 
Bush said it would help keep America "the world leader in transportation." 
The 129-page plan, "Moving America Into The 21st Century," calls for more toll roads. local gas taxes, user fees, private invest­ments, competition, deregu­laton, research into futuris­tic systems and openness to foreign air carriers as well as increased attention to safety and protection of the environment. 
The policy was hailed as an important step by some in-pressed some disappoint­ment, and Democratic mem­bers of Congress were criti­cal. 
Aviation and ground trans­portation groups opposed "user fees" and other taxes that Skinner acknowledged would require travelers to pay more. The American Public Transit Association said the policy was "long on advice and short on help" from the federal govern­ment. 
Rep. Norman Mineta, D­
Calif., chairman of the House surface transportation sub­committee, called it "a good start" but said shifting pro­grams to the state and local level without financial re­sources "would be the shift and the shaft." 
Bush did not immediately field questions on the pro­posal, leaving Skinner to face news media. 
The secretary, who had the policy drawn up after hold­ing 117 hearings across the country. justified proposals for increases in local gaso­line taxes and fees by saying polls show that people are provements. 

Skinner denied the policy represents a shift of respon­siblity for transportation away from the federal gov­ernment, saying it was an at­tempt to "strike a balance" after years in which the fed­eral government has as­sumed "almost all of the re­sponsibility" for funding some transportation sys­tems. 
"The federal commitment to infrastructure and to transportation will continue to be at a very high level," he said, adding that federal transportation budgets are expected to increase each year. 
"It is not the panacea or the answer to all of the prob­lems in transportation," said Skinner. "It was never de­signed to be that. It was de­signed to be a strategic plan, or a framework under which we could make the many de­cisions that we are required to make." 
see TRANSPO I page 4 
By HANNAHWU 
News Writer 
The 1990-91 academic year has been designated the "Year of the Woman" at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame by Father Edward Malloy, University president. 
In announcing the obser­vance, Malloy also identified the committee charged with de­veloping a schedule and coordi­nating activities during the year. Chaired by Associate Provost Eileen Kolman, the committee includes 15 other people from the administration, faculty, and student body. 
The committee will meet by the end of March to develop more specific and detailed plans for activities. It will schedule which speakers they will invite to campus, according to Kolman, chairperson for the committee. 
Throughout the rest of the semester, the committee will be meeting once or twice a month and various sub-committees will be generated to work on some particular projects and topics, said Kolman. 
"The Year of the Woman will 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Stoking the fire, making love, and editing a paper 
"There are three things that no one can do to the entire satisfaction of every­one involved: stoke the fire, make love, and edit a newspa­per," a famous editor 


once said. Chris Donnelly 
Today's issue of The Observer is the last Editor-in-Chief one for which I will serve as editor and I am pleased with the job we have done. The year was full of new experiences and we have all learned a lot. 
Indeed, if there is one thing that I have learned in the past year is that almost ev­eryone thinks they could run The Observer better than we did, and some of them may even be right. 
I've oftnn said that the only thing The Obsflfvnr and The New York Times have in common is that we both make mistakes. I'll bn the first to admit that The Observer is far from perfect, and I don't mind nvery­one's criticisms because it is through these that we grow and improve. 
I do believe, however, that all things considered our part-time staff of students has given it their all and have done an outstanding job. 
It is this staff of 250 students that is the backbone of The Observer and it is to them that the greatest debt is owed. They are the true unsung heros of this organization. 
These are the people who have spent countless hours working at the paper, many of them over 40 hours a week. They have sacrificed their time and sometimes their grades. They do not work for money or glory but rather to serve the students, and hopefully they have a little fun and learn a lot along the way. 
An editor of The Observer many years ago used to answer the common college qtJes­tion, "What's your major?" with "The Observer." Many of the staff could easily say the same thing today. They have spent more of their college careers working here than in their own majors. It is this dedica­tion that keeps the paper going and without it. the organization would certainly deterio­rate and collapse. 
So, I'd like to thank the staff, especially the outgoing seniors, and I'd like to thank our readers. 
Leaving the company you have worked at for four years is a bittersweet experience. Like leaving college you look forward to something new, but you regret leaving something that has bnen such a part of your life and that you have come to love. 
The late Malcolm Forbes once said, "In life, the only constant is change." I look forward to what the future holds, and I have every confidence that the next staff will do an outstanding job. I wish them luck. 
And finally, I'd like to thank all those who have supported me and put up with me throughout my tenure at The Observer: my mother and sister, my grandparents, my roommates past and present, my dear friends, my understanding teachers, the 'Bune, The Papers, Shirley, and Christine. I couldn't have done it without you. [301 

PO. Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
(219)·239· 7471  
News  Friday"s Staff  Sports  
Sandra Wiegand  Ken Tysiac  
Mike Owen  
Production  
Accent  Cristina Oritz  
Colleen Cronin  Kristen Costello  
Paul Pearson  Laura Stanton  
VIewpoint  
Michelle Dall  
Ad Design  Becky Pichler  
Shannon Roach  Arnel Gallanosa  
Amy Eckert  
Kerry Clair  Systems  
Kathleen O"Conner  Cesar Capella  

Maria Blohm Deirdre Bell 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) 1S published Monday through Fnday except durmg exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved 
The Observer Friday, March 9, 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, March 9. 
60 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1990,Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © [~~ ~ [DJ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 


Via Assoc1ated Press Graphics Net 
OF INTEREST 
Father Michael Himes will be speaking on Monday, March 19, at 8:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. He will be presenting a speech on human rights, previously given at the United Nations. The lecture is the first event in Student Government's Central America Week. 
Interested in designing aT-Shirt for the Northern Ireland Awareness Group's fundraiser for the Irish Chil­dren's Fund? Contact Mary Lee at 283-2625. 
Chimes, the Saint Mary's College literary magazine, will be accepting submission of poetry, short fiction and art throughout the month of March. Please di­rect your submission to Room 303 Madeleva Hall. Call Bethe Romz 284-5009 or Bryn Haugh 284-5316. 
Of Interests are accepted at The Observer to publicize one-time free events of general interest. Deadline is 1 p.m. 
CAMPUS 
Word has been received of the death of Harry Worthington, assistant professor emeritus of manage­ment at the University of Notre Dame. Worthington died last Sunday in Bayside, New York, at the age of 98. A member of Notre Dame's business faculty since 1953, he retired in 1968. 
Elizabeth Krause, the wife of retired University of Notre Dame athletic director Edward "Moose" Krause, died Wednesday at St. Joseph's Medical Center. She was 
79. Services will be 1:30 p.m. Saturday at Stepan Center on the Notre Dame campus, with burial in Cedar Grove Cemetery. Arrangements were handled by the Hickey Fu­neral I lome Cleveland Road Chapel. 
Father William Beauchamp, executive vice presi­dent of the University of Notre Dame, will be a member of a panel discussing the cost and financing of intercolle­giate athletics on the CBS television network at 1 p.m. (EST) Saturday (March 1 0). Other panelists will include Indiana basketball coach Bob Knight and NCM executive director Richard Schultz. Beauchamp is chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics and has oversight responsibility for athletics at the University. 
Campus briefs are accepted at The Observer to in­form the campus of important happenings. Deadline is 1 p.m. 
NATIONAL 
Forbes magazine employees received a message • A doctor who was suing the city 
from the great beyond Thursday. They found out from their late publisher: All is forgiven -up to $10,000. All debts, that is. Steve Forbes, Malcolm Forbes' son and successor, told staffers that "in accordance with my fa­ther's wishes" the magazine was giving them all an extra ·week's pay and forgiving all personal loans from the 
company up to $10,000. 
WORLD 
President Najib of Afghanistan said Thursday that the military has been purged of mutinous soldiers, but the renegade general who led a bloody coup attempt and is now in hiding said he would keep fighting. Radio Kabul put the death toll at 56 and said 200 people were injured in fighting since Tuesday's air raid over Kabul. Some travelers who witnessed the attacks said civilian casualties appeared low considering the ferocity of the battles. 
Thousands of demonstrators across Haiti set up flaming tire barricades and burned cars to protest the army's killing of a schoolgirl. Three people were killed, including a soldier who was beaten to death by a mob.Two people were hospitalized with bullet wounds and at least 10 others were injured in clashes with soldiers. Lt. Gen. Prosper Avril, who came to power in September 1988 in a coup Jed by rank-and-file soldiers, has been under increasing pressure from opposition groups to resign. 
claiming she had contracted AIDS though the carelessness of another physician accepted a settlement Thursday. Dr. Veronica Prego main­tained in her lawsuit, which named the city Health and Hospitals Corp. and two physicians, that she contracted the deadly disesse when a doctor who 


drew blood from an AIDS patient in 1983 left the con­taminated needle and other debris on the patient's bed­ding. She accidentally pricked her finger while cleaning up 
the waste. 

MARKET UPDATE 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for March B. 1990 


{t 1.58 
S&P Composite 
340.27 {t 3.32 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,696.17 {}26.58 
Precious Metals Gold {\-$.20 to $400.00 1oz. 
Silver{\-1¢ to $5.11 I oz. 
Source: AP 
Yesterday's high: 41 Yesterday's low: 29 Nation's high: 91 {McAllen, TX) Nation's low: -12 (Milo, and Houlton,ME) 
Forecast: 
Becoming partly sunny and much warmer to­day. Highs around 60. Fair and mild tonnight. Lows around 40. Increasing cloudiness but very mild Saturday with a 30 percent chance of rain show­ers. Highs from the lower to middle 60s. 
ALMANAC 

On March9: e In 1916: MPxiran raidPrs led by Pancho Villa attacked Columbus, N.M.. killing more than a dozen peopiP. e In 1945: U.S. bombers launched incendiary bomb at­tacks on Japan, causing widespread devastation. In 
Tokyo, at least 120,000 people dind. e In 1975: Work began on the Alaskan oil pipnline. e In 1977: About a dozen armed Ilanafi Moslems invaded three buildings in Washington, D.C., killing one per§on and taking more than 130 hostages. The siege ended two days later. e In 1989: The Senate re­jected President Bush's nomina­tion of John Tower to be de­fense secretary. 
-----·~-~-------------~ --· ---------~---~------­
. 

Friday, March 9, 1990 The Observer page 3 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Study break 
Ann Miller, a sophomore at Saint Mary's, relaxes in the Haggar College Center as a study break between mid-terms. 
Foreign lit could satisfy AL requirements 
By JOHN CRONIN course in American or English "This change only affects News Writer literature. Arts and Letters students. For "The point of that require­students in the other colleges, it The College of Arts and Let­ment was to teach students lit­has always been possible to ters revised an existing litera­erary interpretive textual skills, satisfy the University fine ture requirement effective im­but one can learn those skills arts/literature requirement by mediately for all Arts and Lett­by taking literature courses taking a literature course in a ters students. outside of English," stated department other than English. Michael Loux, dean of the Col­So now the Arts and Letters lit­
Specifically, the rf'vision ex­lege of Arts and Letters. erature requirement is just like pands the student's option to However, if a student in­everyone else's," Loux said. courses in foreign literature in tends to fulfill the literature re­The decision was reached by translation, or even in foreign quirement by taking a foreign the Arts and Letters College literature. Previously the re­literature course, that course Council, the official governing quirement specified that all cannot count towards satisfy­body for the College of Arts and Arts and Letters students fulfill ing the foreign language re­Letters, which is composed of the requirement by taking a quirement as well, Loux said. both faculty and students. 
Members of executive board chosen by SUB 
By JOE DIMARIA commissioner, was selected to News Writer 
be the new director of rela­The Student Union Board tions; (SUB) has selected its new •Triona Byrne, a junior from leaders for the 1990-91 aca­Lilburn, GA. presently an assis­demic year. tant controller, will serve as the According to Mike Hough, director of marketing. 
SUB director of programming, The newly elected executive the new leaders for the execu­council will take office on April tive council were selected lasi 1, and Byrne said thay plan to week by the following student gain "access to more of the 
selection committee: Raja student body by making the Singh, SUB board manager; students more informed about Matt Breslin, student body SUB activities." president; Diane Toohy, HPC As the new director of mar­co-chair; Tony Lang, SUB ideas keting, Byrne also said it is im­& issues commissioner; and portant for SUB to expand Hough. publicity of campus events in 
•Erin 
Lavelle, a junior from order to increase attendance at Rochester, Minn., who serves as these events. Lavelle said she is an assistant music entertain­excited because the newly ment commissioner, was elected students represent "a elected the new board manager. solid executive council." "We're looking forward to a successful year," said Lavelle, "SUB is looking forward to a who also said she plans to ex­fun and exciting year," said pand the marketing and rela­Byrne. tions departments. The new leaders replace the 

•Dan 
Orie, a junior from 1989-90 executive council Pittsburgh, Penn., an assistant which consists of the following: controller this year, will now •junior Raja Singh, board serve as controller; manager; 

•Scott 
Harris, a junior from •senior Rick Condon, con­Charleston, WV, who serves as troller; an assistant music entertain­•senior Mike Hough, director ment commissioner, is the new of programming; director of programming; •junior Mike Cyrs, director of 

•Beth 
Wittman, a sophomore relations; from Canton, OH, who serves •senior Debbie Disbro, direc­as an assistant special events tor of marketing. 


+American Red Cross 
WORLD AWARENESS SERIES PRESENTS 
The Struggle For 


STICE 

IN 

Central America 
OVERSEAS

Week Cosponsored by ~UDE:Nf and
atJlil"W'(Q...,cc DEVELOPMENT 
/ 1989·1990 
NETWORK 
~ 

MONDAY March 19, 1990 
8:30pm • Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
"Human Rights" (Previously delivered at the United Nations) 
Fr. Michael Himes, 
C.S.C. 
Theology Professor 
TUESDAY March 20, 1990 
7:30pm • 117 Haggar Hall 
"Economic Restructuring of Panama" 
Prof David Ruccio Prof Michael Francis Irene Perurena Franciso Linares 
WEDNESDAY March 21, 1990 
7:00pm and 9:00pm Engineering Auditorium 
"Romero" :a film. 
lO:OOpm 
Prayer Service Honoring Romero at Siegfried 
THURSDAY March 22, 1990 
7:OOpm • Montgomery Theatre 
Lecture and Discussion on Liberation Theology 
Fr. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C. Director ofKellogg lnstitute 
8:00pm· esc "Life and Death of Archbishop Romero: Significance for the U.S. Church" 
Rev. Joseph Nangle, 0 .F.M. 
FRIDAY March 23, 1990 
6:30pm • South Dining Hall (Faculty Dining Room) 
Central American Dinner 
Reservations Required cal/239-7668 
SATURDAY March 24, 1990 
"Romero: A Prophet for our Time" Commemorative March departs St. Joseph High School at 3:00pm to St. Stephen's parish. 
Vigil and Mass at 5:OOpm follows march. 


AP Photo 

Subway wreckage 
A subway car lies against a support column in Philadelphia after a morning rush-hour crash which killed three riders and injured more than 150 Wednesday. 
Transpo 
continued from page 1 
The plan outlines no major federal programs not already called for in the president's budget request. 
Its overall goal is to maintain the U.S. transportation system as "the finest in the world." However, the report said "there are increasing signs ... that the system is beginning to break down." 
Sen. James Exon. D-Neb .. chairman of the Senate surface transportation subcommittee, said, ''I'm going to be looking through this to sec whether or not this simply doesn't transfer the problems we have ... off the backs of the federal govern­ment and onto the backs of state and local governments." 
Hep. John Paul Hammer­schmidt of Arkansas, top He­publican on a House trans­portation subcommittee, said, "I think the money has to come from users, one way or an­other, and because it is a na­tional plan, the logical way for it to come from users is through a national tax sys­tem." 
A coalition of 16 aviation in­
dustry groups said it opposes 
Bush's proposed increases in 
aviation taxes, which the presi­
dent's fiscal 1991 budget calls 
"user fees." 
Air Transport Association president Hobert Aaronson, who represents major airlines, praised Skinner for "real vi­sion" in developing the plan. 
Friday, March 9, 1990
The Observer 

Moslems·in Kashmir fight curfew 
SHINAGAH, India (AP) ­Thousands of Moslems confined to mosques and homes by a curfew vowed Thursday to die for Kashmir's independence, shouting their slogans at top Indian politicians who arrived to assess the situation. 
Before the curfew was im­posed at 10 a.m. Moslem mili­tants and security forces fought prolonged gunbattles, and at least two people were killed and 10 injured, witnesses said. 
Islamic and pro-independence slogans, broadcast continu­ously by mosque loudspeakers, reverberated through this city of 1 million people as the politi­cians drove from the airport to their hotel. 
The 14 leaders, belonging to major political parties. traveled the 9-mile route in a convoy of 40 cars escorted by paramili­tary troops in trucks mounted with machine guns. 
"The slogan of the faith, Al­lah is great!" thousands shouted from within the mosques as the convoy drove past at noon. 
"We want independence!" they also chanted. 
The politicians, including former Prime Minister Hajiv Gandhi and Deputy Prime Min­ister Devi Lal, were refused permission to leave their heavily guarded hotel. 
Security forces strictly en­forced the curfew, but the broadcasts continued. Many speeches urged Moslems to sacrifice their lives for Kash­mir's independence. 
At least 173 people have been killed since Jan. 20 when the government launched a crack­down on Moslem militants who demand secession of the pre­dominantly Moslem Jammu­Kashmir state from mostly Hindu India. 
"I am shocked. If there is no political solution I see some very hard options ahead," Gandhi said at the luxury Cen­taur Hotel on the edge of Dal Lake. "I do not want to define 
them." 
Disenchantm~~lt with. the_?OV­crnment was mcred•ble, he said, while at least 1,000 com­mandos and paramilitary police patrolled the lake and gardens surrounding the hotel. 
Gandhi said state Gov. Jag­mohan refused to permit the delegation to visit residents of Srinagar, Jammu-Kashmir's largest city and tlHl etmter of the secessionist campaign. 
Jagmohan took charge as the state's governor Jan. 18 and ordered the crackdown. 
He said allowing Gandhi and the other leaders to go out 
would  have  created  a  
"tremendous security risk."  
Jagmohan  later  allowed  a  

delegation of about 40 resi­dents to meet Gandhi at his ho­tel, a police official said. 
Jagmohan said the curfew will be relaxed Friday after the politicians leave Srinagar. 
W. German fire probably caused by arson 
FHANKFUHT, West Germany (AP) -Arson was the likely cause of a fire that swept through a downtown restau­rant and killed 11 people, in­cluding four Americans.. police said Thursday. 
Police first suspected that a gas leak in the kitchen may have caused the Wednesday night fire that gutted Koryo, a Chinese-Korean restaurant near Frankfurt's cathedral and the Zeit shopping district. 
"Evidence now points more to arson," said police spokesman Manfred Fuellhardt after inves­tigators searched the gutted restaurant. 
IIe said the lire broke out in a storage room, under the wooden stairs leading to the restaurant on the second floor of the live-story building. 
Smoke quickly filled the restaurant and some guests were injured when they jumped from windows to escape the flames, Fuellhardt said. He said the fire exit apparently was blocked. 
Fuellhardt said the victims suffocated. Seven people were injured, live of them seriously, police said. 
The dead included an Ameri­can couple, both age 33. Fuell­hardt said. 
Another police official, Franz Winkler, said two children, in­cluding the couple's 1 1/2-year­old son, also died. The other child was an American girl of about 12 or 13, he said. 
Winkler said it was still not dear if the girl was the child of the couple, a relative or a friend out with them for the evening. 
Two of the couple's otlwr children, a 4-year-old boy and a 6-year-old girl, suffered serious injuries, Winkler said. 
At least three of' the dead were connected with U.S. forces statiorwd in West <lnrmany, said U.S. Army spokeswoman Brigitte Schmitz. She declined to release their identities until relatives could be told. 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/:j.~._..._..._..._..._........_.. ._..._.................. !........ ._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._.......l!...._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..":,..._..._..._..._..._..._•••_..._•• ._..._..._•• ._........_..._..._•• ._•• ._..._..._•• ._•• ._•••_•• ._•• ._..._••._..~-:;.:. 
m....  ~  ~..•..  
~~~ ll•rl ....  UDE 1989. 1990  :~g .... ,••••  
ru  ~  
~~~ ru  SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT OVER BREAK. . .  :~~; ~  
ru  ~  
~~~ ~  [&[W~ [F@[& ~LJ[W[Q)~~LJ  ~~~~LJ@[& @[&  :~~; ~  
ru  ~  
ru  ~  
!il rul'•rl  ©lFlF~~~~[F)lW~ ~@~[F)[&~~U[Q)~~LJ~  :Ill ~ ....  
m .... !~~  ~~~:~I~T~~~~.: Badin, Carroll, Dillon, Fisher, Howard, Lyons, Morrissey and Pangborn  ~!i ..•.. .--::.~  

~~~ DISTRICT 2: 
ru
~~J DISTRICT 3: 
.... 
~g DISTRICT 4: ~~~ DISTRICT 5: 
I•J 
Lewis, Old College, Sorin, St. Ed's, Walsh :~~; 
~ 

Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley, Keenan, Stanford, Zahm .~~~ 
..... 

Flanner, Grace, Knott, PE, PW, Siegfried :~g Off-Campus :~g 
.... 

m (Note: students intending to live 0/C next year may run for 0/C Co-Presidents) :~~i 
.... ..... 
m MANDATORY MEETING: Tuesday, March 20, 8:30p.m., Foster Rm., 3rd Floor LaFortune :i~~ 
m ~
m PETITIONS due by 5:00p.m.: Wednesday, March 21, in Student Government Office :~~i m CAMPAIGNING BEGINS: Thursday, March 22 :~~~ ~g CAMPAIGNING ENDS: Midnight, Monday, March 26 :~g ~~~ ELECTIONS: Tuesday, March 27 :~~~ m RUN-OFF ELECTIONS: Thursday, March 29 :~~~ 
,.J ~-. 
m Any questions, call Matt or Vinny at 239-7668. :~~j
.... ..... 
l•tl J"•. 
ffi @J~LJ ~~W©rLW~[Q)g. ~~l 
~., 
.,.,

...................,...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................~ 
·J"·~·~·~·~·J"·~·~·~·J"•J"•J"·~·J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"·~·J"·~·J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"•J"• 
~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-· 

Friday, March 9, 1990 
O'Neil voted runner-up in annual Irish Queen contest 
By JANICE O'LEARY Associate News Editor 
For thn sncond ynar in a row Mary O'Nnil was votnd first run1wr-up in Chicago's annual Irish QunPn rontnst. 
O'NPil is a sPnior in Walsh llall and has partil'ipatPd in the rontnst for tlw past four yPars. SIH• will sPrVP in thn Qunnn's l"ourt in tlw :{:>th annual St. l'atril'k's l>ay paraciP. 
In ordPr to takP part in thn l"ontPst. a woman must bP of Irish dPsrPnt. livn in tlw Chicago arPa. and lw lwtwnPn tlw agPs of 17 and ;a,. 0'1\ipil is from Oak Brook. Ill. and is al­most totally Irish. slw said. 
OvPr 500 girls appliPd. and tlw numlwr of <'ontPndPrs was imnwdiatPiy rut to 200. Tlw rontPst took plar.n in tlw Chil"ago llilton and Tmwrs llo­tPI on FPb. 2:3. 
i\rrording to O'Nnil. tlw dPri­sion for Irish ()uPPn is madl' by a p;uwl of judgPs and is bas1~d mostlv on how Irish a rontns­tant iooks and how wPII slw will rPJHI'SPnt tlw Irish rommunity. 

Mary O'Neil 
(J'Nnil won a watch, a Watnr­ford rrystal vasP, and a ynar's supply of 7-Up products for !wing first runnnr-up. Thn ()Lwnn wins a trip to ln~land, a trip to anywhPrl' in thn U.S., a wnnknnd in Chicago, and mom Waterford rrystal. 
Slw will also participate in a mass at Old St. Patrick's Churrh. a n~IPbrity breakfast. and a lunch aftnr tlw paradn. Tlw paradn, tlw largnst in Chicago, will stnp ofT at 12::Hl 
p.m. from Dnarborn. Ill. and will bn tl'invisnd on WLS-TV. 
HEY DOCTA! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
'l(Ylrrmrr/£9{ 
1 1 
ouE."' 
Bruiser, Princess, Kathy, Skippy and Rubbermaad 

The Observer 
Special to The Observer 
Ten minority students from the University of Notre Dame will spend their spring semester break observing thn Community of Caring program in five American cities March 10-18. 
The program. a project of the Joseph P. Kennedy Foundation, provides high-school curricula and discussion models which address a variety of social problems afflicting American adolescents. including teen pregnancy, drug and alcohol abuse, truancy, vandalism, and violence. 
According to Foundation lit­erature, the program promotes "the universally accepted ethical values of caring, responsibility, trust, respect for self, others and family" and fosters a 
page 5 

gram participants in New Haven. Conn. 
i\zikiwe Chandlnr, a fresh­man from Charleston, S.C., and Jennifer Jennings, a sophomore from Dallas, Texas, will visit program participants in Kansas City, Mo. Yan Searcy, a senior from Kokomo, Ind., and Carla Esmay Garcia, a sopho­more from Los Angeles, will visit program participants in Long Beach, Calif. Eric Griggs. a sophomore from Winston­Salem, N.C., and Tracey Gayle Wilson, a junior from Freder­ick, Md., will visit participants in Sacramento, Calif. 
Notre Dame's participatiOn 111 the Community of Caring pro­grams is being coordinated by the University's Office of Minority Student Affairs and the Center for Social Concerns. 
Tuition 
Colleges and 
universities 
announced 
some of the 
smallest tuition 
rate increases 
in a decade. 

Stanford $20,210 I 
up 5.25% 
!_______. 
M.I.T. $20,700 I 

up7.1% 
'--------' 

University 
D$4.040

of Michigan up6.5% 
University 
D$4.460
of Iowa 
up3% 

Columbia $19,3761College 
up5.7% 
Lehigh $19.230 I

University up 7.7% Drexel 
I 
$12.969!

University up5.9% 
AP 

+ 
American 
RedCross 


The Observer/Steve Moskop 

Drenched 
Students carry umbrellas to shed Thursday's heavy rains which helped to reduce the remaining snow on campus. 
Students observe'caring' program 
"respectful environment" in school situations ranging from full semester courses to 15 minute daily discussions. The Foundation reports that 12,500 students from 25 high schools in 7 states participate in Com­munity of Caring programs. 
In teams of two, the Notre Dame students will visit five program sitns nationwide, hear from program participants, and return to Notre Dame to share insights and suggestions conce-rning the program with Kennedy Foundation adminis­trators. 
Echelon Jackson, and Steven Bynum, both juniors from Chicago, will visit program par­ticipants in Newark, Delaware. Carita Fletcher, a junior from New Orleans, La., and Andre Barrett, a sophomore from Sanford, N.C.. will visit pro-

Being aMarine Corps Officer can open !hedoor lo opportunities you may have lhuughl were beyond your reach. II helped Marine Officer Ourtes Bolden lx'Come aNASA as1ronau1. And ifyou're ~illing lo make !hecommilmrnl. il could help you also. You can ge1 SW1ed whde you"re in coUege wilh our Plaloon Leader.; 
· progr.un. You could lake ofgrning: S100 amonlh while in school 
• Juniors train in one len~week summer session and earn more !han $2100 
• Free civilian Dying lessons 
• Aslarting salary ofmore !han $20,000 Immediately upon graduation you could become aMarine 

Freshmen and Sophomore; lr.lin two si'\-wrek summer ses­lhan SllOO 
Hewant~ou 
togoas.tar 
asyou can. 
Officer. Irsyour choice. Maybeyou"relhekindof ~ manwe"relookingfor. ~ 
HrirJoolingixaJewgoodllJf1J. 
If you think you have wn~t !t takes, call 
1-800-728-9228 
t about the Marine Corps Officer programs. 

YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 
YOU'VE EARNED IT. 
Jordan's Auto Mall 609 E. Jefferson Mishawaka (219) 259-1981 
page 6 The Observer 

HUD 
continued from page 1 
immunity," which would bar prosecution of Gilliam based on testimony to the subcommittee or information developed from that testimony. 
Gilliam's testimony is ex­pected in late April. 
Lantos said the court-ap­pointed speeial proseeutor, Ar­lin Adams, who is investigating Pierce and other former HUD officials, said immunity for Gilliam would not conflict with his investigation. 
Lantos defended his panel's continuing investigation after the appointment of the special prosecutor. lie said Adams' probe is limited to activities in­volving HUD's moderate reha­bilitation program that pro­vided renovation subsidies for 
Friday, March 9, 1990 
low-income rental housing, and his panel was looking into other areas. 
Pierce has refused to testify before Lantos' House Govern­ment Operations subeommittee on employment and housing. 
Several former Pierce aides have also refused to testify, cit­ing their Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimina­tion. Among them was Deborah Dean, Pierce's former top aide. 
A HUD source, speaking only on eondition of anonymity, de­scribed the move with Gilliam as a breakthrough be<:ause he "knows everything." 
Pierce has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing and accuses the subeommittee of targeting him despite evidence to support his position. 
Lantos said Gilliam was re­ceiving no indueement, such as a reduction in sentence, to testify. 

Only for student American Express® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express® Card. Then get ready to take off. In search of adventure, action-or just simply to escape. 
American Express and Northwest Airlines have arranged these extraordinary travel privileges on Northwest-exclusively for student Cardmembers: 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-tO many of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­uous United States served by Northwest. Each certificate is good for a six-month period, and they will arrive within six weeks after you receive the Card. Current Cardmembers will automatically receive their $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 provided they are still full time students~ 

• 
10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with your own personalized discount card, valid through january 1991 on all Northwest and Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount is not applicable to the $118 student certificates and other certificates, promotional or special status airfares.) 

• 
2,500 BONUS MILES TDWARDS FREE TRAVEL­when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks® Free Travel Program. 


AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL. just pick up the phone, call1-800-942­AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your application and begin to process it immediately. (If you have your banking information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help 
APPLY TODAY 

speed the process.) 
Keep in mind that our Automatic Acceptance Program makes it easier for you to become a Cardmember now, as a student, than it will ever be again. 
And remember that as a Cardmem­ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
So don't miss out on a world of great experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for the Card. And start packing! 

Membership Has Its Privileges"' 
1-800-942-AMEX ~ NORTHWEST AIRLINES 
0 lf you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your writteA question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express, P.O. Box 35029, Attn: Student Marketing, Greensboco, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats ar this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. Ciry fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800·942-AMEX. ©1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS~ CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 

Viewpoint
Friday, March 9, 1990 
a e 7 


P.0. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager.......Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr .....Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor . Enc Ba1ley OTS Director .......... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstlne Gill Controller ........ Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1mstrat1on of e1ther lnst1tut1on. The news is reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1ble. Uns1gned editonals represent the op1nion of the majority of the following Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef Managmg Editor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ed1tor Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor Samt Mary's Ed1tor. Commentaries, letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commumty and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
All Irish eyes won't be smiling on St. Pat's Day 
By Mary Ann Hennessey 
Handom snarch and seizure, not only of homes, but of per­sons as wnll, rhildren shot by stray and not so stray bullets from wandering army patrols, men and women convicted to 
years in prison solely on the L--~~~~~~~--~<:::::::=~==--~l__:!:____._j 

word of paid informants. Soaring unemployment and forced ghetto living under seign-like conditions for a na­tion's indigenous pnople. Is this a picture of South Africa, El Salvador, Cambodia. Israel? No this is daily Irish life in the British occupied north east cornnr of Ireland. 
Imagine, too, a national holi­day to commemorate the an­niversary of a massacre of na­tive people by an invading and still occupying force; something akin to a U.S. holiday celebrat­ing the Trail of Tears, or the arrival of the first slave ships. It sounds horrendous but this actually occurs annually, re­plete with parades and other festivities in the British occu­pied northeast corner of Ireland. 
I don't have the time, space or self control to give an ac­count of the history of British crimes against the Irish during 800 years of persecution and oppression, nor even to point out the extent to which these crimes continue to go unan­swered today. However, what has to be said is that the home of the "Fighting Irish" should be ashamed of its apathy, si­lence. and abandonment of the very source of its inspiration. When we wave our green and gold nags proudly at sporting events, do we not know that .men and women have died for 
this act, that in Ireland it has 
been considered subversive to 
display the tricolor, and still is 
in the northeast part today? 
The United States is home to 
DOONESBURY 
50 rou'Re emt.F 

7DiJCH UJITH POP.' .....c;r-=---;;;.,. 81GPf3AL.! THe 
MUS/C.~'T 
AOOR£'55175UF 
/ 70 YOU NOW ANYWAY.' 
more people of Irish ancestry that the whole of the island of Ireland. but it appears that we recall this fact only annually on March 17. We watch parades with crowds of green clad, beer drinking, jig dancing Americans proudly exclaiming Irish slo­gans and putting on a fake brogue. We eat corned beef and cabbage and pretend that we like it; do we again forget that this meal is a reminder of the poverty suffered by the immi­grants in the "Little Dublins," and Irishtowns all across this country? 
In Ireland, St. Patrick's day is more likely to be spent in church than in celebrating. The Irish are more likely to be praying for an end to the "Troubles" and peace in their land than revelling in the streets and pubs. Individually at least 70% of the Irish catholics in Belfast and Derry likely pray for a job, or that they will not have their house ransacked in a search that day, or that they will not be ar­rested, strip searched, beaten and held in prison for the al­lowed 7 days without charge. Everyone knows that the prac­tice of "internment" has been ended, however with very little trouble the detention period of seven days without charge may be extended indefinitely, with the right to see a lawyer being suspended. Just this year the right to silence, long considered fundamental in this country, has been dismissed and now even one's refusal to speak in such conditions may be con­strued as an admission of guilt. 

The descriptions of the su­pergrass trials and the ac­counts of friends who have often been arrested and charged with phony crimes, the most popular of which seems to be the nebulous "conspiracy" charge, remind me of the fa­mous trial of Danton, a French statesman, during the French revolution. In response to his accusor's charge that he con­spired against the government for the overthrow of the regime, he said, "Yes, I con­spired, alone, within the con­fines of my heart, with myself, I conspired." For this he was guillotined, for this men and women and children suffer con­stant fear of arrest, imprison­ment, humiliation and torture. All this for desiring an end to foreign occupation of their land. 
The United Nations Declaration of the Rights of Peoples in its preamble states that "we live in a time of great hopes and deep despair ... a time when liberation struggles have succeeded in arousing the peo­ples of the world against the domestic and international structures of imperialism and in overturning colonial sys­tems." In response to the ef­forts of the peoples of the world to end the reign of impe­rialism and to stem the emer­gence of neo-colonialism, this Declaration serves to enumer­ate the fundamental rights of peoples and to enjoin the inter­national community to uphold them. 
The United States and Notre Dame have vociferously de­nounced human rights abuses in many parts of the world, and at the same time chosen to ig­nore others. I admit that I am ignorant of the criteria being used to judge the "worthiness" of the suffering endured by millions if not billions of people on this planet. Are we so in­debted to "Great" Britain for the persecution of religious aberrants which allowed for the foundation of our nation, and, consequently our univer­sity, that we must consistently turn a blind eye to the injustices she commits? Must we remain silent even when it is our own homeland, for some, and the source of our identity for all of us at the Irish Catholic institu­tion of Notre Dame? 
The final article of the United Nations Universal Declaration of the Rights of Peoples states, "the reestablishment of funda­mental rights of peoples, when they are seriously disregarded, is a duty incumbent upon all members of the international community." This is why we stand up and say enough Apartheid in South Africa, enough abuse of Palestinians in the occupied territories of Israel, enough disregard for the homeless in the U.S., and enough discrimination and op­pression in Northern Ireland, indeed the "State" of Northern Ireland has existed too long, enough to a divided Ireland. We must explore all nonviolent means to correct injustice wherever we find it. In Ireland that means supporting the MacBride Principles and putting diplomatic pressure on the "British Empire." Great Britain must be made aware that the golden age of her em­pire is gone, she must learn 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
that she has innicted enough pain upon the peoples of the world and now it is time to learn to live within her borders and accept the right of the Irish (Scotch and Welsh) not to be English. 
Any future peaceful and united Ireland must come from within Ireland, however the only hope that this can come about swiftly and without any more bloodshed is through an international recognition that the present situation is unac­ceptable. Of course, all people have the right to self-determi­nation of the social, political and economic order under which they will live, and in the present day, the statelet of Northern Ireland contains a majority in favor of continued annexation to the U.K. 
However, what must be un­derstood is that this is not the fundamental question at hand. The very existence of the so­called state of Northern Ireland is based upon a false premise. The partition of Ireland can only be seen as gerrymandering and machinations of a colonial power faced with a general and violent dissatisfaction with its rule. The very creation of two Irelands was and remains wrong and indefensible. The question of self-determination can only, then, be valid when considered by the island as a whole. 
For myself, this is not a situ­ation dealing solely in lofty, quixotic ideals, it is, rather, one which touches me directly and deeply. St. Patrick's day is an opportunity for us all, as a na­tion built upon immigration, to honor and celebrate our Irish heritage, and yet it should be an occasion for us to think, are Irish eyes really smiling today? 
Mary Ann Hennessey is a se­nior government and French major. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I FORGtrr. THeaJTe t-U45HE. ()>113.' ANI/ 
PAUL. MCCAI<TNE.Y? 
::-Ccx.K3H.~. ~ THt~ llON7YOU
I 

lrlOPHCAO? PATRONize 
I Me!\ 
'He does not seem to me to be a free man who does not sometimes do nothing.' 
Cicero 

~..........................--~----------------------.-----------------------------------------------------------------­
Accent 
Friday, March 9, 1990

page 8 
Low-budget movies cash in big when Oscar nominations come 
LOS ANCELES IAPI-lhm~·s ject, hard-drinking Christy Morgan Freeman, arc not high­proof that Acad11my voters pay Brown. who bl'came an ac­priced. Dan Akroyd is, but he littln hePd to what a moviP claimed artist and writnr in took a lesser salary to play the costs: Orw of tlw eontPnders for spite of the cernbral palsy that straight role of the old b11st picturP was producNI for virtually immobilized him. woman's son. His change of $:{ million, anotlwr for $H mil­l'tmrson started the film with character paid off with a nomi­lion. his own money. plus 100,000 nation for supporting actor. 
Contrast thost~ figurPs with pounds stt~rling apiece from a thn $50 million spent on friend and from Irish tolevision. Australian Bruce Beresford "Batman," whieh Parned onP Everyone concerned with the directed "Driving Miss Daisy" Aeadl'my Award nomination -film, induding star Daniel Day­on location in and around for art dirPetion. Lnwis, worked for barn mini­Atlanta. and the Zanucks 
mum. An art gallnry scene was tightly budgeted the locations. 
Tlw Academy of Motion filmed in Pearson's own hous1~. The film. about the long rela­Picture Arts and Scipnces has a lin borrowed costumes from tionship between a crankyhistory of ignoring the cost his theatrical company. widow and her patient chauf­factor in rewarding thP bost feur, has proved to be a huge 
aehinvements of the film world. "The film was made for just hit, both in awards (nine Oscar "Marty," with a budget of under $3 million, depending on nominations, the most this $343,000, won as best pieturn the rate of exchange," said the year) and at the box office of 1955. btmting such big-bud­producer. "We managed to do ($60.3 million after 12 weeks in get films as "Picnic," "MistPr that because everybody was release). Hobnrts" and "Love Is a Many­committed. It was triumph of Splnndored Thing." spirit over financing." Two other nominees for best 
The latest estimate for the picture had average budgets 
The $!-million "Hocky" worldwidn gross of "My Loft and drew mixed reviews. but knoeked out its rivals in 1976. Foot" is $50 million. their off-beat subjects some­Other low-budget winners: how connected with the "Chariots of Fire" (19H1) and "Driving Miss Daisy" also moviegoing public. "Platoon" (19H6). demonstrates that a film's Costner. Filmed for a reported creatively. Most of the sernen 
Oscar loves the Cinderella budget is immaterial at awards "Field of Dreams" invited $16 million, "Field of Dreams" time in the $20 million film was story. which this year stars the time. It was budgeted at $8 audiences to swallow a whop­amassed a gross of $63 million. d1woted to the cast of unknown Irish-made drama "My Ldt million, an amazing figure in per -that an Iowa farmer teen-agers. Foot." view of the $20 million average would build a baseball diamond "Dead Poets Society" looked 
for mainstream Hollywood in his corn field where long­like an impossible sell. The title Heviewers objected to 
"We managed to get the pie­films. dead major leaguers would seemed a turnoff. Although Williams as a latter-day Mr. turn made out of blind igno­play. Robin Williams was a hot draw Chips and found the tragi<: end­rance," admits producer Noel !low could Hichard and Lili in the wake of "Good Morning, ing out of keeping with the rest Pearson. "We were two weeks Zanuck produce such an inex­Many critics spurned the fan­Vietnam," he played a relatively of the film. But "Dead Poets into filming when we lined up pPnsive film? It is basically a tasy, but ticket buyers were at­brief role as the English Sodety," directed by anotlwr the linaneing." lie had been a two-character story, and the tracted by its message of hope teacher who inspires students Australian, Peter Weir. sold dose friend of the film's sub-two stars, Jessica Tandy and and by the star power of Kevin at a 1950s boys school to think $94 million in theater tick1~ts. 
J. Alfred Prufrock's opinion on 
the ordination of women 
I would like to start, "Let us Woody Allen has a monologue pnrnd to thl' shorn lamb. go then, you and V When the about thfJ time he was drown­As a long-distance runner, evening is spwad out against Father Robert Griffin ing. lie says the past started the Church has rwver bem1 in a the sky/ Like a patient etheriz1~d !lashing bdore his eyes, and hurry. Isn't it tlw pn~rogative upon a table," as though my letters to a lonely God that thoughts of the old mill­of the Church to go at it.s own name wen~ .1. Alfred Prufroek, stream came to him, and mem­pan~'! Doesn't tlw Church havl' and this were my love song. ories of a girl in gingham and reasons, just as God has rna­l'rufrock is a mask I am trying not happen. that it cannot hap­light flickers/ By the white and of sasparilla on sale at the gen­sons. that our n~asons know on for size: "I am not Prince pen or that it should not hap­silver veiV A wafer dipped in a eral store. To his surprise, not of'! SomnonP has dnscribl'd llamlet, nor was meant to be. I pen; but, as Shakp,speare said wine-drop/ Is the Presence the none of this was familiar, and Yahw1~h as a God whom you am full of high sentence, but a about dying. "Hipeness is all." angels hail. .." he realized that the past flash­can't really love. but whom you bit obtus1~; at times. indeed, al­I am very open to women Eliot, another Anglican. usns ing before his eyes was some­can't lwlp liking. Many most ridieulous-almost, at aspiring to be priests. All my the hippopotamus as an image body else's. Catholics lind tlw Church 1wnn times, the Fool." lifn. I've met fellows who were of the earth-bound Church that I'm bothered by Catholics harder to take. 
In my lwart of hearts. I feel told they had no vocation to the has ties to the Church in heaven with the liberal agendas who Prioress Joan ChiUistPr, OSB. I'm Prufroek: dull, prosaic. un­Church. I've often seen them in through which the creatures have visions of a Church that is offers us this cautionary tale. rornantie, and over the hill. "I sacristies, laying out Mass can be saved: "I saw the not their own, but somebody "Once upon a tim!' a visitor have heard the mermaids sing­vestments they could never 'potamus take wing/ Ascending else's. Then, in Prufrock's own came to tlw monastery looking ing, each to each. I do not think wear, and the pastor would tell from the damp savannas/ And words, it's "as if a magic for the purpose and mPaning of that they will sing to me." I'm you in a whisper that they were quiring round him sing/ The lantern threw the nerws in pat­life. The TPadwr said to tlw J>Prceived to be a chauvinist, de­"spoiled priests." Do you think praise of God, in loud hosan­terns on a screen, and it is im­visitor. 'If what you seek is fending a network of good ol' I enjoy seeing women shoved nas! Blood of the Lamb shall possible to say, just what I Truth, therP is mw thing you boys as though it were as privi­into the pain of such rejection, wash him clean/ And him shall mean!"· must have abov1~ all else.' 'I leged as the Hound Table at or angered at the injustice heavenly arms enfold/ Among As the instrument of Christ's know,' the visitor said. 'To lind Camelot. which leaves them excluded? the saints he shall be seen/ peace. the Church should be at the Truth I must have an over­
The truth is, to my regret, I am Prufrock, singing a love Performing on a harp of gold/ peace with itself. Even as the whelming passion for it..· 'No.· I've beeomn a loner. Being or­song for thp, Church. Is it lin shall be washed as white as servant of the Lord who came the Tnadwr said. 'In order to dairwd used to be like belonging worthwhile saying, "The snow/ By all the martyr'd vir­to bring not peace, but a lind Truth, you must have an to an exclusive dub, like the nightingales are singing near/ gins kisV While the True sword, the Church, as a house unremitting readiness to admit Senate; but that was in another The convent of the Sacred Church remains below/ Wrapt divided against itself, cannot you may be wrong."' country. and besides, the P-xclu­lleart" -if one, settling a pil­in the old miasmal mist." stand. I am self-described as sivity is dead, or else it's dying. low by her head, should say, Is it worthwhile, do you think, Prufrock; and the wimp-factor A Catholic, who realizes that, 
"In the room thfl women come "That is not it, at all, at all"? mentioning Betjeman and Eliot in me says. "Give peace a in his search for truth, he may and go/ Talking of Is it worthwhile quoting the to one who, throwing off a chance." have gotten hold of the wrong Michelangelo...(They will say: thoughts of Betjnman. who was shawl and turning toward the The Church isn't perfect, but. end of the stick, should rely at 'How his hair is growing thin!')/ so in love with the Church of window, will say, "That is not it compared to the age of the least somewhat on the alleged My morning coat. my collar England? In the Middle Ages, at all. That is no what I meant, world, it's still young. wisdom of the Church, because mounting lirmly to the chin/ .. he says, "All sport and plea­at all"? Compared to the lifetime of a he believes tlw buck stops .I have known the eyes already. sure, all plays and dancing If this wp,re theology, it would world that could be destined to there. If he didn't bnlieve that. . ./ The eyes that lix you in a were 'under God.' God was be High Church and limp­last forever, the Church hasn't he would have no reason to re­formulated phrase...But near. hanging over the altar wristed. But I'm J. Alfred even reached its first spring­main a Catholic. though I have wept and fasted, beyond...The fear that men Prufrock, and that is the time. Compared to the brave wept and praynd/ Though I felt is shown there too. Chiefly "Gloria" of my love song for the new world that began at the "We have lingered in the have seen my head (grown in the ligure of Our Lady do we Church. Now here is the "Agnus end of Vatican II, the born­chambers of the sea," says slightly bald) brought in upon a see the tendP-rness and sweet­Dei, miserp,re nobis," borrowed again Church promising free­Eliot's Prufrock, "Till human platter/ I am no prophet-and ness of this late religion." from the "Lamentations." "How dom is still in its swaddling voices wake us, and we drown." here's no great matter..." Of a pe.rish church he visited doth the city sit solitary, that clothes. Maybe you think that at the end 
But, for what it's worth, if in Lincolnshire, he wrote: "The was full of people! How is she I have no great quarrel with of my own love song, I should 
the ordination of women is an door swung easily open/ become as a widow!...Among the liberal agendas. I, too, have wake up and smell the coffee'? idea whose time has come, I (Unlocked, for these parts are all her lovers, she has none to a deep concern for the wounded I'm only Prufrock, remember'? will be glad to see it happen. odd)/ And there on the south comfort her; all her friends Church members who wear the As Jesse Jackson would say. Even if I were the pope, I don't aisle altar/ Is the tabernacle of have dealt treacherously with scars like merit badges, and I "Maybe God hasn't finished think I could predict that it will God/ There where the white her; they are become her enemy." trust that the wind will be tern-with me yet." 

~----~-~--------_,.----------------------------------------------. 
Friday, March 9, 1990 The ObseJVer page 9 
Sabres annihilate Bruins in Adams Division showdown ­
BOSTON (AP) -Alexander Mogilny and Dave Snuggerud scored two goals each as the Buffalo Sabres won the battle of the NHL's fwo top teams with a 10-4 rout of the Boston Bruins Thursday night. 
Boston began the day atop the NIIL and Adams Division standings with 89 points and a chance to deal a severe blow to the Sabres' hopes of catching up. Buffalo, second in the league and the division, ended the night with 84 points. 
The Bruins, who allowed a league-low 191 goals going into the game, tied a team record for most goals allowed in a home game. It was the seventh time they gave up 10 and the lirst since Dec. 8, 1966. 
The Sabres. 2-0-2 in their last four games, were aggressive from the start. outshooting Boston 21-12 in the first pe­riod. Goalies Andy Moog and Heggie Lemelin took turns get­ting beat behind a porous de­frmse. 
Boston, which had won its last four games and eight of nine, played its second straight game without all-star defense­man Ray Bourque, who has a strained abdominal muscle. 
The Sabres led 4-0 after one period on two goals by Mogilny and one each by Dave Andreychuk and Darrin Shannon, his first in the NHL. They built the lead to 7-0 at I 0:10 of the second period on goals by Phil Housley, Pierre Turgeon and Snuggerud. 
The Bruins finally scored against goalie Daren Puppa on Cam Neely's 48th goal of the season at 11:55 and Peter 
. Douris' third at 12:26. But the Sabres got those back when Snuggnrud scored his 13th at 
15:19 and Rick Vaive got his 26th on a power play at 18:41 of the second period. 
Boston's Craig Janney added a third-period power play goal and Mike Hartman made the score 10-3 at 17:19 before Neely got his 49th goal 17 sec­onds later. 

Moog stopped nine shots be­fore leaving the game at 11:27 of the first period after Mogilny's second goal and 13th of the season made the score 3­
0. Mogilny skated around de­fenseman Stephane Quintal and beat Moog, who had skated 30 feet out of the net to stop the breakaway. 
Lemelin took over and made 11 saves before Snuggerud's 12th goal of the season made it 7-0 at 10:10 of the second pe­riod and brought Moog back into the game. Lemelin made a pad save on Uwe Krupp's shot 
on  a  two-on-one  attack,  but  
Snugerud fired home the  re­ 
bound.  

Red Wings 3, Blues 2 
DETROIT (AP) Steve Yzerman tied for the NHL lead with his sixth short-handed goal as the Detroit Red Wings beat St. Louis 3-2 Thursday night for only their second vic­tory in seven games against the Blues. 
The Red Wings, who have won four of their last five games, moved back into fourth place in the Norris Division, one point ahead of idle Minnesota in the race for the final playoff spot. Detroit is 2­4-1 against St. Louis. 
The Blues remained in first place in the division, two points ahead of the idle Chicago Blackhawks, with whom they play a home-and-home series Saturday in St. Louis and Sunday in Chicago. 
Yzerman's 55th goal at 9:28 of the second period tied the score 1-1. It tied Yzerman with Edmonton's Craig MacTavish for the NHL lead in short­handed goals . 
Gerard Gallant put the Red Wings ahead 2-1 on a power­play goal, his 34th, at 16:50 of the second period. Gallant beat Vincent Riendeau with a slap shot from the right circle while Gino Cavallini was off for high­sticking Mike O'Connell. 
Jimmy Carson gave the Red Wings a 3-1 lead with his 20th goal on a power play at 2:59 of the third period, four seconds after Mike Lalor was sent off for holding Marc Habscheid. 
Brett Hull, the NHL's leading scorer, gave St. Louis a 1-0 lead with an unassisted goal, his 65th, at 9:04 of the first pe­riod. Hull took a wayward pass from Detroit's Steve Chiasson and flipped the puck easily into the net over a sprawling Tim Cheveldae on just the second shot of the game for the Blues. 
Paul MacLean cut the lead to 3-2 with his 27th goal, also unassisted, after taking a bouncing puck off defender Lee Norwood's skate at 14:28 of the third period. 
Riendeau, who was pulled twice for a total of 14 seconds for an extra attacker in the fi­nal minute, turned away 28 of 31 shots. He made a brilliant save at 3:28 of the second pe­riod. 
In other NHL action last night, the New York Rangers beat the Philadelphia Flyers 7-5 and the Toronto Maple Leafs sunk the Hartford Whalers 7-6. 
The Observer accef1!s class1fieds every business day tram 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m~ at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 P~m. at the Saint Marys office, 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m~ All classif1eds must be
Classifieds prepaid~ The charge is 2 cents per character per day, includmg spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORD PROCESSING 272·1837 
MAIL BOXES ETC. Shippmg, Packaging, Copies~ Resumes from $15.00. 277-MAIL 
INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund 1n 3 Days to 2 Weeks' MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 
$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! PANDORA'S BOOKS Corner of NO ave and Howard 233-2342 
For a hot tip on where 
to lind a good time 
Call 64 7-0900 ext 17 40 
St. Mary's Campus Events 
Hotline 
LOST/FOUND 
Lost: one pair ot men's suit pants. Dark blue, with red stripes~ Any 
info call Tom at 234·9728. 
REWARD 
LOST: Gold ring with Ruby. Great sentimental Value. Please, return to Nick , x5208 or 277-7236. Reward. 
FOUND: piece of jewelry in 
Holiday Inn on Rt. 31 during JPW. call John X1583 to 
identify 
FOUND/ LIFTED -BASKETBALL ON STEPAN COURTS ON FRI MARCH 2. I TOOK IT BY ACCIDENT. REALLY. CALL X1436 TO ID AND CLAIM. 
Lost: Ladies Brown leather glove, 
lined~ Between Morris Inn and 
Walsh. Call James Purcell collect 
1-923-4238 
LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST' LOST! A gold, Gruen watch with a smooth brown band in between Knott and St. Ed's. Call Brad at x1701. 
LOST...diamond and sapphire ring. High sentimental value .. ••••reward••••••••• Call Debbie #2935. 
LOST: Favorite pair of Ray Bans in tan case. If found. please return. Matt 271·9576 
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. 
REWARD. SEAN 2073 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer.Yr. round.AII 
Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52·1N04, Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. 
GUESS WHAT! I'M STILL DESPERATELY SEEKING A GOOD PIANO~ IF YOU HAVE ONE, PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT 239·5303 BEFORE 4 PM~ 
Pardon me; I am seeking a goodly number of those darling little tank tops that read, "Drink like a champion." Do call X3574. 
Need ride home or close to home-­Atlanta; Thomasville,Ga.; or Tallahassee. Fla. (Southern GA) Can leave after 
2:30 Fri ..return by Sun night. Call Shonda X2551 
ROOMMATE..ROOMMATE Female roommate needed to share a Turtle Creek apartment for 90-91 school year'' Call Kelly@ 4985 or Julie@ 287-9378 
•• ROOMMATES NEEDED •• 
Female roommates needed for a safe. close-to-campus house (1/4 mile from campus). with cheap 
rent($150/mo) and fun roommates!' For summer of '90 or 90-91 school year!! Call Julie at 287-937811 
DESPARATE!!!'!!!!' My ride home bailed out on me and I will be stuck in South Bend if you don't help mel I need a ride to Colorado and back. Will help with tolls and gas. PLEASE HELP ME!!!! CHRISSY x4026 
FISHING COMPANION WANTED RESPONSIBLE SINGLE MALE 20­
30. IF YOU CAN AFFORD A FREE 1 OR 2 WEEK FISHING VACATION JULY 7-21 CALL 272· 9040. 
BE ON T.V. many needed for 
commercials. Now hiring all ages. 
For casting info. Call 
(615) 779-7111 Ext. T-1481. 
ARTIST TO ILLUSTRATE MAPS 
FOR BOOK. CALL JOHN M·F 
1 OAM-4PM 255·8700 
CRUISE SHIPS now hiring all 
positions. Both skilled and 
unskilled~ For information Call 
(615) 779·5507 Ext. R-200. 
ATIENTION: EASY WORK EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble products at home. Details. (1) 602· 838·8885 Ext. W-6262. 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY 
WATCHING TV! $32,000/YEAR 
INCOME POTENTIAL. DETAILS. 
(1) 602·838·8885 EXT. TV-6262. 
WANTED: 
POINT/OFF GUARD WANTED FOR HIGH-CALIBER BOOKSTORE TEAM. LAST YEAR 3 IN FINAL 64 AND 1 IN FINAL 32. IF YOU FEEL READY, CALL 
MIKE OR STEVE AT X1650 
PART-TIME SUPERVISOR JOB. 
5·10 PM, M·F. $9/HR. + 
BENEFITS~ 
ROADWAY PACKAGE SYSTEM 
CALL 294-4082 

'---FO_RR_E_NT_____..I 
KNUTE ROCKNE'S HOUSE Summer Rental 4/5 bdrm, 2bth.furnished $600 p/mth 913 Leland 
X4420 
SUBLEr··suBLET"..SUBLET 

??Staying for the summer?? Sublet a Turtle Creek apartment for the summer of '90!! Living on campus for the summer is the "blaaas," not to mention expensive! Help us and we'll help you!! Call Kelly at 4985 or Julie at 287 ·9378. 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT 
SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291· 7153 
SUMMER RENTAL.Home near 
campus. Security system.272· 
6306 

FURNISHED 6-BDRM., 2-BATH SECURE HOME. 1021 DEMAUDE. CALL 234·6688 OR 234-5041·. 
2 STUDENT HOUSES. 6-7 
BDRMS. EACH. CALL CHUCK 
GLORE 232-1776. 

LARGE FOUR BEDROOM HOME 
COMPLETELY FURNISHED. 
AVAILABLE FOR JUNE OR 
AUGUST. 234-9364. 
HOUSE FOR RENT 
WALKING DISTANCE FROM 
NO 232-3616 

HOUSE FOR 1990-91 SCHOOL YEAR. FURNISHED. SECURE HOME, 5 BDRM, WID, CLOSE TO ND. COMPETITIVE RENT. 1-264· 6010. 
FOR SALE 
ATIENTION FEMALE TRAVELERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! FOR SALE: Spring Break plane ticket to Ft.Lauderdale BEST OFFER call Molly @284·5410 
For Sale: 1980 CAMARO $1200. 232·6085 

FOR SALE!!!! Emerson STEREO: dual cassette, turntable, AM/FM radio & speakers. Will sell CHEAP!!! Best offer. Call Shannon at 2469. 
TICKETS 

Hey Seniors, Tell your parents to order all four GRADUATION TICKETS. Because I need 4 extra tickets and will pay CASH for any seat anywhere. So after break call me at 256-9374 and get your mula. 
I PERSONALS 
Looking for a fraternity, sorority of student organization that would like to make $500-$1000 for a one week on-campus marketing project. Must be organized and hardworking. Call Joe or Myra at (BOO) 592-2121. 
STUDENTS... 
JUST DO IT!!!!! 
Take advantage of student discounts on IBM PS/2's. 
Visit the ND Computer Store for more details. 
Position Available 
CATHOLIC SCHOOL PRINCIPAL Grades K·6 (118 students) 
Applications available. Write: Saint Patrick Parish Office 320 West Broadway Kokomo, IN 46901 
(All correspondence will be kept confidential) 
Yo, Observer lame ducks: It's been fun working with all of you this past year and during the last four. Hasn't time flown? Thanks for all you've done to make The Big Oh a success. Love, The Lame M.E. 
I need a ride to Colo. and back for Spring Break -my ride canceled on me!! Will help pay for tolls and gas. Call CHRISSY x4026 
SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL LAST BID SALES WED. MARCH 21, 6-9 PM FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
HELP!!! I need a ride to ST. 
CHARLES. ILL., or nearby·-call 
Darren x2055 
Congratulations and good luck to the 1990-91 Observer General Board. Happy Spring Break! 
P.S. Have fun when y'all get back! 
Love. The Lame M.E. 
PETERSON PARTY TOUR Coming soon to a bar near yuu• 
BOOT WITH BETH!! 
BOOT WITH BETH!! 
BOOT WITH BETH!! 
BOOT WITH BETH .... at Peterson Party Tour '90!!! 
HAPPY 21ST. BETH PETERSON!! We think you're a·DOOR·able!! 
Happy Birthday to Beth ·"I never 
forget, I just don't remember" · 
Peterson!!!!\ 

To the news trainees: Thanks all you new ANEs and CEs..you did a great job. We're excited to work with you guys this year. ..Kelley & Janice 
GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID every Friday 12:15 Administration Building steps Be There! 
NANCY PRECHTAL!!! Have an awesome 21st birthday on the 15th! Prepare to party wnhen you 
.get back from London. 
Love, M 

'Ladies' of SMC, 
What happened? Where are you now? It seems the superiority of our wit has finally won. I quess you could say, we 'beat' you. 
Victorious, and gracious as always, TheMENof2D 

L­
(just because it probably wasn't you Wednesday) 
Have a great time in Florida. Have one for me and I'll have one for you...in Connecticut, Indianapolis, Long Beach, or wherever the heck I go. 
Your mission statement: Sleep on the beach all day-you need the sleep-and sex on the beach all night. You need that, too, even if you are completely well-adjusted. Do do anything I wouldn't do. (There's that aggressive letter again. In fact, I think part of our problem stems from that letter. I won't name names. I don't have to.) 
Hasta Ia vista. bey-bey. -K 
RO, I've been in a great mood all week and I'm not as nervous anymore! Have a great break! 
Love, BRAD 

RO, 
I've been in a great mood all week and I'm not as nervous anymore! Have a great break! 
Love, BRAD 
TEAM STANFORD 

Fellow Freshman Studs­thanks for all your support. 
............~~~!~....... 
To the girl who taped the 7:00 hypnotist show on 3/7 PLEASE! call me or Leave a message at 4111 
-Madonna Pork-n-Beans 

IS THERE ANY QUESTION THAT BILL IS THE MOST HAPPENING DUDE IN THE MED. PROGRAM? Just ask SCRABBLE. The babes dig him, the dudes want to be him and everybody's mother wants him to be their son!!!!!!! Perhaps you've seen him with those girly-men in the weight room. Of course he puts them to shame-· He's BILL! GET YOUR MEAT HOOKS INTO HIM NOW GIRLS. ASK THE GOOD DR. TO GIVE YOU A FREE EXAM. YOU WON'T REGRET IT!! hiag RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd .. Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262·1581. To RICKY CHAPMAN: I think you're the hottest band geek I ever did see!!! I just love your cute butt and I think your eyes are magnificent! I hope someday to make you mine! Please respond here. Love. all the females in the freshman class  
Hey Man! Thanks for all those birthday wishes. You know I really don't deserve them. OK, so I do! Hey, don't get around too much over break, you easy babe, you. NANCY PRECHT AL Happy 21st !! Enjoy London !! Love, A The Return of ED'S PAINTING CO to CLUB23 Tuesday March 20 10·2 The Return of ED'S PAINTING CO to CLUB23 TUESDAY MARCH 20 10-2 JIM & DEB PATIERSON CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR 1-MONTH WEDDING ANNIVERSARY! ...CHICAGO to MIAMI••• Rnd. trip plane tix for sale $200 LEAVE 3/1 0 RETURN 3/17 CALL 284-5462 or 5456  .. ...  
DEEP IN THE HEART OF TEXAS!! (Yea for Spring Break!) Thea Angey and Mom Panos Look out Avon Park' We are so excited to see you-we just can't wait! Love. Kathy, Kelly, Kim. Mary Monica, and Val. @@@  

~p~ag~e~1~0--------------------------------------------~T~he~O~b~s~eN~e~r------------------------------------------------------------------~F_r~id~ay,March9~ 
-
IU beats Ohio St., loses Anderson 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­Freshman Calbert Cheaney scored 22 points Thursday night as Indiana, playing the second half without its injured leading scorer, beat Ohio State 77-66 and kept alive its hopes for an NCAA tournament bid. 
The Hoosiers (18-9 and 8-9 in the Big Ten) lost sophomore forward Eric Anderson, who crashed to the floor with a minute left in the first half and was taken to Bloomington Hospital with a bad sprain of his right ankle. 
Indiana trailed 29-25 at the half, but freshman Matt Nover and sophomore Jamal Meeks picked up the slack and finished with earner highs of 16 points apiece. 
Indiana had a 30-3 advantage in free throws and scored 10 of its final 12 points from the free throw line as the Buckeyes (15­12 and 9-8) fouled repeatedly in the dosing minutes. 
Two free throws apiece by Cheaney and Meeks, a 3-point goal by Cheaney and a steal and fast-break layup by Meeks erasod a 7-point Ohio State lead midway through the sec­ond half. The Buckeyes twice again managPd leads of one point but baskets by Nover and Meeks and another 3-pointer by Cheaney put the lloosiers on top for good. 
Freshman Pat (;raham added 
1:l points for the Hoosiers. Anderson, who had averaged 
16.8 for the season, had only OIHJ point before the injury as hH fought for a rebound. 
Ohio State was led by Perry Carter with 16 points and Big Ten freshman of the year Jim Jackson with 12. 
The victory still left Indiana in seventh place in the confer­ence, a game bPhind the sixth­place Buckeyes with one game remaining. Both teams are hoping for bids to the NCAA tourney. 
The Hoosiers held Jackson, Ohio State's leading scorer, to 


five points in the first half. But 
a 3-point barrage by the 
Buckeyes kept them ahead most 
of the period. 

Chris Jent's first 3-pointer was Ohio State's only basket during a 12-3 Indiana spurt that gave the Hoosiers their biggest lead of the opening pe­riod at 12-9. Jent, who came into the game hitting only 38 percent of his 3-point attempts. then hit two in a row to put the Buckeyes back in front midway through the half. 
A leaning, off-balance 2­pointer by Jent and a 3-point basket by Jackson gave Ohio State a seven-point lead two minutes later, and the Buckeyes matched that when a 3-pointer by Alex Davis put them ahead 23-16 with six minutes to go. 
Graham hit a 3-pointer that started a 9-2 spurt, and Graham's two free throws tied the game 25-25 before baskets by Jackson and Davis put Ohio State on top 29-25 at the in­termission. 
MichiJ;!an State 84,
Nortfiwestern 68 
EVANSTON. Ill. (API -Steve Smith scored 23 points. includ­ing five 3-pointers, as No. 7 Michigan State won its ninth straight game, routing Northwestern 84-68 Thursday night. 
The Spartans (25-5, 14-3) clinched at least a tic for the Big Ten title. If Michigan State beats Purdue on Saturday it will have its first league title since its national championship season of 1978-79. 
Northwestern (9-19, 2-16) finished its season with its fourth loss in a row and 1Oth in the last 11 games. 
The Spartans' Matt Steigenga and Mike Peplowski each had 11 points. 
Michigan 941
Wisconsin 6q. 
is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
Assistant Production Managers 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal 
statement to Joe Zadrozny by 5 p.m. Friday, March 9. For further information, contact Joe Zadrozny at 239-7471. at 283-3128. 



is looking for a design major or an artistically inclined individual seeking practical experience to fill the following position: 

.. 
Graphics Editor 
• 
Responsible for composition of computer graphics for News, Sports and Accent pages 

• 
Will gain valuable experience in Mac Draw and Adobe Illustrator and excellent portfolio 



,.. 
material for future job or internship searches. 
A two-page application, a resume and any relevant work samples should be submitted to Alison Cocks by Thursday, March 9. For further information about the benefits of this position, contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471 


ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) ­Michigan's Terry Mills scored 18 points and pulled down 10 rebounds as the No. 13 Wolverines defeated Wisconsin 94-64 Thursday night. 
Rumeal Robinson added 15 points and a season-high 12 assists to move into second place on Michigan's all-time as­sist list with 548. Loy Vaught added 16 points while Sean Higgins and Eric Riley each scored 12 for the Wolverines 
(21-7, 11-7),  who  won  their  
11th consecutive home  game  
against Wisconsin.  


SPORTS BRIEFS 
Karen Robinson, high-scoring guard for the Notre Dame women's basketball team, has been voted the MCC Player of the Year and first-team all-MCC .. Irish guard Coquese Washington was named to second team MCC squad. 
Carrie Cummings of the SMC swimming and diving team was named a NAJA All American after her sixth place finish in three-meter diving at the NAJA Championships. 
The Indiana Senate honored the Notre Dame football team Thursday for compiling the best 1989 record in major college football. State Senator Joe Zakas !H-Grang.er) presented Irish coach Lou Holtz with a Senah~ resolutiOn before 1,200 people gathered for the annual convPntion of the Indiana Builders Assodation. 

'1\Pphoto 
Michael Jordan's high-flying Chicago Bulls were grounded by the Utah Jazz last night by a score of 98-94. Other NBA action had the Timberwolves beating the Clippers 111-94 and the Rockets pounding the Sonics 111-97 behind 30 points by Akeem Olajuwon. 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Representatives 
For more information contact Beth at 239-6900 or 283-2722 
r  =-The Obse&Vei is looking for: Ad Designers Must be creative and responsible. If interested, please contact Amy Eckert at 239-5303 or 283-3525.  ~  
\.  

Future 
continued from page 16 
University of Notn~ Danw Fightin' Dung Bnntlns. so nanwd so as to lw as anti­dPfamatory as possible. now wPar Valpo-brown uniforms both at honw and on tlw road. 
Also following tlw I Pad of tlw first name in eollf'gl' sports. tlw NotrP Danw l'hPPrlPading squad was disbandnd for idPn­tifying and nrnphasizing rwga­tivf' stnn~otypPs of womPn. No orw noticed. 
Tlw Bengal Bouts kirk­boxing tournarnPnt. whirh sPt rncords for partidpation and attnndaneP last ynar. will lw televised by ·I·:SKN, thP EntPrtainment in Sports nwans only Kiekboxing NPtwork. MastPr of CPremonies .John Cusak. who Pstablished tlw national intnn~st of kiekboxing in the movies "Say Anything," and "Say Anything ll," said it 
was  his  dn~am  I'OilliJ  truP  to  
establish  kiekboxing  as  
America's national pastinw.  

The men's BookstorP Basketball eommissionPr. whosP namn is not n~IPasPd, is expelled from school wlwn someone discovers that thn to­tal numb1~r of playPrs on all tlw teams signed up is greater than the population of the state of Indiana. An invPstigation into the possibility that people may have intended to play on more than one team is pending. 
The Scholastic football review issue from the 1990 season is published. 
The top-ranked women's basketball team gets its 11th consecutive NCAA Tournamnnt bid. dating back to the 1989-90 season, when the team was 22­6 heading into postseason play. 
Finally, the Notre Dame men's basketball team, still trying to keep up with the women's team in attendance and unable to compete in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, joins the Big East and Big Eight simultaneously, winning both conference cham­pionships and claiming two bids to the NCAA Tournament. 
So sit back in your cushioned seat in the new stadium and enjoy the pregame festivities. You won't be sitting for long. When the game begins, you'll be on your feet. Some things and Notre Dame will never change. 
Correction: 
The coupon expiration date on the Pizza Hut ad that ran on March 8 was printed incorrectly. The correct expiration date is March21. 
American+ 
Red Cross 


Friday, March 9, 1990 
The Observer 
Tennis squad puts ranking on the line at Texas Invite 
BY BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
Life is full of simple plea­sures. Some come unexpectedly, others are years in the making. For Notre Dame skipper Bob Bayliss, who is now in his third campaign, national recognition has been one of his biggest aspirations. 
Bayliss's wish has finally come true. According to the latest ITCA collegiate tennis poll, Notre Dame is the 22nd best team in collegiate tennis. 
OK. so 22nd isn't the best ranking in the world, but con­sidering how far the tennis program has come in such a short time, one has to shake his head in disbelief. Bayliss inher­ited a solid program from le­gendary coach Tom Fallon, yet he improved and introduced fresh blood into a good pro­gram. 
Bayliss took the climb to na­tional prominence one step at a time. llis philosophy has cre­ated a program whose fortunes can only improve. And this strategy has produced Notre Dame's first nationally ranked team in 15 years. Yet, Bayliss characteristically downplays tlw significance of the monu­mental accomplishment. 
"Teams have a tendency to bask in the glory of the pre­sent," explained Bayliss. "We don't want that to happen. I told the team that you are as good as your last match. We have to let rankings and those type of things take care of themselves. The most impor­tant thing to do is to improve in practice and play the best match that you can." 
And Bayliss' words of wisdom snnm to havn found a receptive 
+I 
Though he has not been im­American Red Cross plicated, four of his former players were said by ABC News 
to have been involved in an al­leged plot· to shave points dur­
STEAKS ing the 1987-88 season. 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA

PRIME RIB 
F ttaturillg Friclay aiglll seafoocl buffet 

In his 1Oth season with the
SEAFOOD 
and Swlday bi'WICh 
Wolfpack, Valvano is guaran­
219-259-9925 

teed $500,000 in his contract if he is fired for anything less 
STAR OF H~T COMiEDV SiER~iES= 
"ANYTHING BUT LOVE" 
Tickets are $5 for students and $8 fo non-students At the Lafortune Info. Desk 
FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1990 
8:00 P.M. at O'Laughlin Auditorium 
than a major NCAA violation or a felony conviction. 
Valvano has been under pres­sure from some quarters to re­sign since former player Charles Shackleford admitted receiving $65,000 while playing for the Wolfpack. The State Bureau of Investigation is still investigating the point-shaving allegations. 
Negotiations between Valvano's attorney Art Kaminsky and N.C. State Counsel Becky French bogged down last week while rumors flew over how much money Valvano might be offered to step down. 
Both Manning and Chief Deputy Attorney General Andy Vanore were to meet in execu­tive session Friday with the University of North Carolina System's Board of Governors, said John Simmons, a spokesman for the attorney general's office. He said the board would have a say in the final decision. 
page 11 

Zorich, Watters, Lyght, Heldt ar.e named captains 
Special to The Observer 
Four seniors-center Mike Heldt, cornerback Todd Lyght, tailback Ricky Watters and nose tackle Chris Zorich-have been elected captains of the 1990 Notre Dame football team by their teammates. 
This marks only the second time in Irish history that four players have served as captains in one season; Tony Furjanic, Mike Larkin, Allen Pinkett and Tim Scannell held those roles in 1985. 
Heldt, a 6-foot-4, 265­pounder from Tampa, Fla., has started 25 straight games for Notre Dame at center over the past two seasons. He earned honorable mention All-America honors in 1989 from The Sporting News and Football News and has been a key figure in Notre Dame's successful running game the past two sea­sons. Heldt is not expected to participate in spring practice this year after dislocating his elbow in the 1990 Orange Bowl win over Colorado. 
Lyght, a 6-foot-1, 181­pounder from Flint, Mich., has started in 24 straight games at cornerback over the past two years. He earned unanimous All-America honors as a junior in 1989, was one of three final­ists for the Jim Thorpe Award presented to the top defensive back in the country and totaled eight interceptions. Lyght was just two interceptions short of the all-time Notre Dame single­season record. 
Watters, a 6-foot-2, 199­pounder from Harrisburg, Pa., ranks as Notre Dame's top re­turning ground gainer for 1990 after rushing for 791 yards on 118 carries last season. He earned honorable mention All­America honors in 1989 from The Sporting News and Football News. Watters led the 
Irish in receiving in 1988 (15 catches for 286 yards) while starting at flanker, and he boasts a career punt-return av­erage of 13.3 yards, including three returns for touchdowns. 
Zorich, a 6-foot-1, 268­pounder from Chicago, has started 25 games over the past two seasons at nose tackle. He was a consensus All-American in 1989, also earning recogni­tion as the United Press International lineman of the year and as one of four finalists for the Lombardi Award. 
The Irish are slated to begin spring practice on March 23. 
TYPESEITING AND PRINTING 
325 DIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH BEND (219] 277-3355 21 5 S. 11TH STREET • NILES 
61 

Sumnwr !Pb"" Over 50.000 summer tob openmgs at Resons. Camps. Amusement Parks. Bus1nesses. Cru1se L1nes. Ranches. and more 1n the U.S.. Canada. Australia. and 20 other countries. Complete d~rectory only $19.95. Don't wait till alter finals. Send to Summer Jobs. Drawer 38039. 
Colorado Spnngs. CO 80937 
ROCCO'S HAIRSTYL ,. ~ FOR 
ME~•.·{~MEN
.1 
. ­
I .. 

531 N. Michigan St. 
P e 
home In the minds of his play­ers. 
"The ranking doesn't matter," says freshman Chuck Coleman. "The only thing that matters are the rankings at the end of the season. We have to keep playing as hard as we have been all season long. As long as we do that we will be fine." 
For the Notre Dame men's tennis team, life could not sim­ply be better now that it has a national ranking and will spend spring break in Austin, Texas to continue their national schedule. The Irish will enjoy the great state of Texas and play nationally-competitive teams. 
The Irish will face a perennial southern power Furman on March 16. They could conceiv­ably play the No. 12 collegiate team, Alabama if they get by the South Carolina school. And if things go well against the Crimson Tide, Notre .Dame would most probably face Texas University. 

The Observer/John Cluver The Notre Dame tennis team gained recognition when it was ranked 22nd in the nation by the lTC A this past week. 
N.C. State looks for solution to new Valvano controversy 
"We are playing the best teams that we could schedule," said Bayliss. 'The competition should be great and Austin is a neat place to be.We can get some work in and be prepared to play on Friday. Regarding Furman, they are good Southern team and we cannot afford to look past them." 
Notes: In the latest ITCA sin­gles poll, Notre Dame's No. 1 player Dave DiLucia moved up to No. 29 in the singles rank­ings from the No. 44 slot. The rankings do not include Dil.ucia's results in the H.E.B. Collegiate Tennis Championships. 


RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) -The Jim Valvano contract quandary at North Carolina State took a new direction Thursday -be­hind closed doors. 
The attorney general's office has agreed to handle future ne­gotiations for the state regard­ing the basketball coach's fu­ture with the Wolfpack. And a Raleigh attorney, Howard Manning, will represent the school's interests. 
Negotiators hope that keep­ing a new series of discussions private will help all sides reach a quicker solution to the prickly question of what to do with Valvano. 

0 ­
page 12 
Phonz 
continued from page 16 
it S!H~m as if it's Phonz's prob­lmn. It's not Phonz's problem." 
Of course. the Illinois matter wasn't the first bit of adversity l~llis has had to eneounter this school year. Midway through the fall st~rnesLPr. he learned that his grad!' point average did not nwl'l University stan­dards to bP Pligibln for that senwstt~r. Whiln Notre Dame stumblmt to a 1-3 start. Iillis was forc!'d to watch from the sidl'liiWS. 
In soml' ways, tlw Irish still are making up lost ground aft!'r Ellis' absent~!' from tlw season's first SI'VPn ganws. 
"Aftnr lw got bad, we had to get in a rhythm," Phelps said. "It has nothing to do with wins and losst~s. It has PVPrything to do with playing togPllwr and getting usPd to each other. That rhythm rwver really sur­facPd until WI' got to Syracuse." 
The loss of Pligibility was not all that had Ellis distraught. 
"I nevPr lward it directly. but it was kind of degrading to find OUt a lot of pPrsons had Josl confidt~nce and thought I wouldn't be abln to return and play ball at Notn~ Dame thP second senwstl'r." Ellis said. "I thought that was intPresting because I havP a grPat ara­demie background. It was in­lnrnsling to sPn pnople lose faith in mn." 
Ellis' honwtown of East St. Louis gerwrally is known only for its depressed economy and outstanding high school sports teams. But Ellis loved being raismJ in a city many pnopiP mention with disdain. 
"If I could grow up all over again. I'd want to grow up there," he said. "It tells you a lot in terms of how to livn. You learn to apprneiate things in life more." 
It also gave Ellis a ehance to hone his basketball skills with one of the best scholastic pro­grams in the nation. Ellis led East St. Louis Lincoln lligh to back-to-back state titlns and faced off with players like Georgetown's Alonzo Mourning, Illinois' Marcus Liberty and Indiana's Eric Anderson. 
After a senior season in which he placed fourth in the Parade magazine national Player of the Year ballotinA (behind Mourning, Syracuse's Billy Owens and Georgia Tech's Kenny Anderson), Ellis was bound for Notre Dame to play for Phelps and Shumate, one of the best big-man coaches in the country. 
But the summer before Ellis 

was to arrive at Notre Dame. 

ShumatP left South Bend to 
tak1~ the head coaching position 
at Soutlwrn Methodist. 
"I thought about 
(transferring) after he lnf'l bn­
eause lw was a very key factor 
in my decision to come hen~." 
Ellis said. "I was very dn­
pn1ssed for a long time." 
To the delight of Notrn Dame 
fans, Ellis decided to go ahead 
and play for the Irish after all. 
lie averaged 13.5 points and a 
team-high 9.4 rebounds per 
game, and his 53 blocked shots 
set a new single-season school 
record. 
Despite missing the first part of this season, Ellis has shown major improvements as a sophomore. lie scores 14.5 points per game, just behind Keith Hobinson's team-leading 
14.6 average, and has an as­tounding 12.6 rebounds per game. 

Ellis is on pacn to bneome the first Irish player since Toby Knight in 1976-77 to average double figures in n~bounds. In Notrn Dame's 66-65 upset of Syracuse last month. Ellis outrebounded the Orange's Derrick Coleman, !HlP of thP all­limn NCAA rebounding leaders. 
''I've always wantPd to aver­age 20 points per gamn, but we have a lot of players the points should be distributnd between," Ellis said, "but I look around and see what I can do on re­bounds, and I know I can go well out of the range of any­body on the team with rebound­ing." 
It figures that Ellis is having such success with rebounding this year. He's had to do enough rebounding from off­court distractions that it must be getting natural for him. 
Chinese-Americ1n Restaurant & Cocktail Lounce 
Authentic Szechuan. Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 

Lunches starting at_____ $3.45 Dinners starting at_____ $4.95 Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon. -Thurs. 11.30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri. · Sat. 11 :30 a.m. to 11 p.m. .,}.----__. • Sun. & Holidays 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. ie Way S., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn\ 272· 
-~ -~-----------­
Friday, March 9, 1990 

Fencers travel to Midwest Regionals 
By CHRIS FILLIO t h rough o u t the year . Sports Writer Freshman transfer Janws Taliaferro is eoming ofT his Several members of thH Notre gold medal performance at last Dame fencing teams will traVf~l we e k e n d ' s G r e a l I. a kl~ s to Wayne State University in Championships, when~ lw Detroit, Michigan this weekend bestPd teammates Ed and Chris to compete in the Midwest Baguer. Junior l.eszek Regional Championships. Nowosielski is al,ready !HlP of 
Taking on the top teams out ll)l' lop sabrists In the na­of the midwest. tlw Irish will t! 0 n as well as one of tlw fa­attempt to guarantee tlwm­vorites for this yt~ar's individual selves an NCAA tournanwnt rhampionship. bid. "It goPs without saying that 
The epee squad for the men our sabrP tl'am has tlw most will consist of of sophomores d!'pth." said DeCicco. "With Jubba Beshin and David l.PSZI'k hack in r.ompetition this Caldnrhead. seniors Derek sl'mestPI". tlwy arl' also now onP Holeman and Mark Gugel. and of tlH• strongest, too." freshman Gnoff I'Pchinsky. Tlw women's !Pam finislwd 
"It's not going to be an Pasy tlw sl'ason in firw fashion. dP­day for the npPe team." stated fPating arch-rival and dPfPnd­head eoach Mikn DnCirco ear­ing nation champions Wayrw lier in thn week. "They'w al­Stall'. ready lost to Ohio Statn oncl' l.Pd by sPniors Anrw BarrNla this year, and only lwat Illinois and K.ristin Kralirl'k, llw 
5-4." wonwn will also lw n•prnsPntPd 
The foil and sabrP tP<uns will by sophomores IIPidi l'ipPr, send a much morP solid ronlin­Tara KPlly. Baclwl llaugh and gency. Foil captain Joel Clark junior Lynn Kadri. 
will be joinnd by freshmen "In tlw past few WI'Pks tlw 
standouts Nw~l Young and .JniT wonwn havP shown PVPryorw Piper, as wnll as junior Phil that tlwy ar!' rapabl!' of rom­LPary, the Irish's number two p!'ti ng with tlw lwst." said man this season. DPCirro. "I fppl that haw tlw 
"Our foil squad has been con­ability and dnsirn to continLH' sistent all season. ~~specially this tn~nd in tlw up!·oming with the likes of Phil (Leary)," Wl'l'ks." 
said DeCicco, "And tht~ fn~sh­Following the W!'Pkend artion, man have really been an added the Irish will train and prPparP bonus." for this y!'ar's NCAA 
Likewise, the sabre tnam has Championships, to be lwld at exhibited dnpth and prowess Notre Damn from March 24-21{. 


Ill

\1 • .. 

M • • H M • • H M • • H 
PE LE 

INCLUDES PRECISION CUT li SHAMPOO 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTURE 
REDKEN 

GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKAPROFESSIONAL HOURS: Daily 9-8
277-7~

PRODUCTS Sat 9-6 Sun. 11-5 
• Hair longer than shoulder length $10 additional. CCopyright ol Chicago Hair Culling Co. 1990 
---------~----------------~~~--------------..~-­
Friday, March 9, 1990 The Observer page 13 
O'Connor will run in NCAA meet 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's in­door track team will bring its 1990 season to a close this weekend. when senior distance specialist Mike O'Connor travels to the NCAA Indoor Track championships at Indianapolis. 
"We've had some good per­formances this season," noted Notre Dame assistant coach Tim Connelly. "The Central Collegiate Conference meet was a good meet for us; we took fifth place there. But the IC4As were a bit of a disappointment; we finished ninth in a field of 90, but we wanted to finish in the top live." 
Mike O'Connor. also a stand­out cross-country runner for the Irish. qualified for the NCAA Championships in both the 3000 and 5000 meter races. He qualified for the 5000 early in the season, as he posted a time of 13:57.38 at the Alex Wilson Invitational at the Loftus Sports Center on February 24. Last weekend, at the IC4A meet, which was held at Harvard University, O'Connor qualified for the 3000 meter run by winning the event with a time of 7:59.19. 

Yet O'Connor will only com­pete in the 5000 meter run, 

which will be run outdoors. 
Because this race will be run 
outdoors, O'Connor ca·n qualify 
for the NCAA outdoor champi­
onships, provided that his time 
is up to par. "If Mike runs well 
here, his chances for qualifying 
for the outdoor championships 
improve measurably," ex­
plained Connelly. 
Aside from such future con­cerns, the 5000 has con­sistently proven to be a better event for O'Connor. Additionally, O'Connor, who is one of nine individuals to qualify for the 5000 meter run, is one of only ·four American runners that have earned the right to run the 5000 at the championship meet. 
"I think that Mike can do very well. He's shown over the last few weeks that if he can get into the race, he can hang tough and kick with anyone in the nation," concluded Connelly. 

The Observer/Matt Mittino The Notre Dame wrestling team will participate in the NCAA West Regional over spring break. 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
the Blue Demons in scoring with 16.7 points per game. The Irish held Booth to nine points on 3-of-8 shooting in the first meeting between the two teams. 
Howard is the only other Blue Demon in double figures with 
14.5 ppg and 8.4 rebounds, while freshman guard Terry Davis scores 9.9 ppg. 
The Irish will probably stick with the same starters they have used in the past two victo­ries -sophomore Elmer Bennett (1 0. 7 ppg) and junior Kevin Ellery ( 4.2 ppg) at th';' guard spots, senior Keith Robinson (14.6 ppg and 7.9 rpg) in the middle and sophomores Daimon Sweet (6.3 ppg) and LaPhonso Ellis (14.5 ppg and 12.6 rpg) at forwards. 

Senior co-captain Joe Fredrick has been steady off the bench in the past two 
games for Notre Dame, scoring 8 points against Missouri and a 
season-high  23  versus  
Kentucky.  
• ••  

The Irish will learn Sunday evening if and where they will play in the NCAA Tournament. The tourney begins next Thursday and Friday at eight sites from Hartford, Conn., to Long Beach, Calif. 
Two things in Notre Dame's favor are its power rating and strength of schedule. The Irish are ranked 36th in the Sagarin power ratings and improved to 34th in the latest Associated Press poll. 
Notre Dame's schedule is listed 32nd in the country. Of the 31 teams with a stronger schedule, 10 have losing records, 15 are rated lower than Notre Dame in the power rankings, and one -North Carolina State -is on probation and ineligible for the tourney. 
Purdue has the toughest schedule in the country accord­ing to the rankings followed by Pittsburgh, Ohio State, Northwestern and Iowa. 
NOTES -Notre Dame leads the series with De Paul 45-35 .. .The Irish have shot 54.3 per­cent from the field in their last five games. . .Bennett has 
scored in double figures in 10 of the last 13 games. . .Robinson has seven double­doubles in the last nine games . . . Players coming off the bench have accounted for 723 of Notre Dame's 2177 points this season, while opposing teams have just 460 of 2036 points off the bench. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. THE CONSTITIITION 
..n,e \'-\xds \\'e h\·c ~· 

FREE 
TANNING 

NEXT TO VENTURE Oailv 9-6. 
GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA Sat 9-6 277·7946 Sun.11·5 
The right choice. 


Friday, March 9, 1990
The Observer

page 14 
Singleton adjusts to role as reserve in Irish resurgence 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
The rollerroaster ride of the Notre Dame basketball team this year has had a dizzying effect on Tim Singleton. 
For the junior, this season has meant relinquishing his role as floor conductor to be­come a passenger on a trip that has. at times. seemed wildly out-of-control. As he alternated between starting at point guard and spending time on the bench as a reserve, Singleton has had to sit back and watch as other people, narm~ly Elmer Bennett. took over on center stage. 
While some people might bP indignant or upset aftnr losing their starting job. for SingiPton. individual stardom can wait as long as the Irish win. 
"W11 needed more scoring. It was a decision Coach had to make," says Singleton, refer­ring to the fourte11n games this season in which h1~ was re­placed by Bt~nnett at a position he held for all of last year. "I still play the same game when I'm in and the team is on a run now." 
The Irish upset Missouri last weekend and beat Kentucky on Monday night, reviving their hopes of receiving an NCAA bid. In the Missouri game, Singleton was one of a gang of Notre Dame players who came off the bench and contributed substan­tially to the Irish victory. Singleton scored nine points while dishing out eight assists. 
The assists added to Singleton's team-leading season total of 128. Setting up others to score is Singleton's forte, but it has led to some problems this year as head coach Digger Phelps has encouraged him to try and take the ball to the basket a little more often. 
"I've got to get into the habit of scoring more,"says 
Road 
continued from page 16 
Irish are only hitting .215 thus 
far and have scored just 26 
runs in their seven games. 
"The mistakes we're making 

are not because it's early in the 
season," commented Murphy. 
"Wt~'re not being aggressive 
and we're being too seleetive." 
It's only a matter of time. 

though, before the Irish hitters 
get in stride. Craig Counsell 
(.188). Ed l.und (.111), and Joe 
Binkinwicz (.050) havn shown in 
the past that they are quality 
hitters and will need to get in 
the groove for thn Irish to 
eontinue winning. 
The Irish pitching staff again 

will be the key for this trip. In 
this weekend's games Murphy 
will use Brian Piotrowiez, Pat 
Leahy, and either Chad 
llartvigson or Joe Binkiewiez 
as starters. The same four 
players will handle starting 
roles the following weekend. 
In the bullpen, Tony Livorsi 

will throw in middle relief while 
right hander Mike Coffey and 
southpaw Chris Mihalak stand 
to be the closers. 

American 
Red Cross 
Singleton, who sees himself as the tempo-setter and primary playmaker offensively. "I drive a lot and guys pull on me so I pass it off." 
On Saturday. however, Singleton got the opportunity to showcase his scoring talents. During a five minute Notre Dame run, Singleton ran the of­fense like the Irish were giving an exhibition entitled "llow to Play Run-and-Gun Basketball." llis contributions included three steals which resulted in two dunks, one of them behind the back, and an alley-oop pass to Monty Williams. 
"That was one of my best games," remembers Singleton, who is averaging 4. 7 points per game. "I felt like I controlled the tempo of the game and when I had the ball man-to­man. I could go to the basket and dunk." 
Singleton plans to display his shooting skills even more next year, in addition to providing Notre Dame with some senior leadership, a factor he feels the lrish were unfortunately with­out this season. 
"We had a chance of beating every team this year." says Singleton,"but we had some bad experiences with people only playing one good half and then getting complacent. We needed people showing leader­ship so we would put two good halves together. 
"Guys would get complacent which lets the other team back into it. When we had letdowns. no one stepped in and took charge." 
That has all changed now for Notre Dame, claims Singleton. The entire team finally got fed up with losing, he says, inspir­ing the performance that has the Irish riding high on a two-game winning streak and hop­ing to clinch an NCAA tourney berth this Saturday by beating DePaul. 
"We're keeping everything in perspective and not letting our­selves get lackadaisical," says Singleton of the change. "We know what it feels like to lose and we got tired of it-that's the whole thing right there." 

Adding to Singleton's talents are his defensive skills. Leading the team in steals with 28, Singleton's style of play has led his teammates to dub him "Mouse." 
"Jamere Jackson started calling me that. I guess because I'm so much shorter than ev­eryone else and just run around most of the time trying to bother people," says Singleton, who at 6-1 is ten inches shorter than Notre Dame's tallest player. Keith Tower. "My job is to stop the other team's guards and create trouble for them." 
Through all the ups and downs of the season, Singleton says biggest fan remains, with­out a doubt, his mother. 
"I carne to Notre Dame be­cause my mom really liked it." says Singleton. a native of New Orleans. "She liked the tradi­tion and the fact that I'll get a good degree here. 
"Plus, since we're on TV a lot, my family can watch and I can keep my mom proud." 
Singleton's other inspiration comes from a less typical source. The Morrissey Manor resident spends time before each game relaxing while listening to rap music. 
"I like the way it's so crazy, making all the words rhyme and keeping the beat at the same time," says Singleton, whose favorite rappers include Public Enemy and the Boogie Down Production (the BDPs). "I listen to it before I walk over to the arena." 
The rhythm remains once the game begins. Singleton enters the game and sets the tempo. Under his guidance, hopefully, Notre Dame will continue its winning ways as the current Irish beat goes on. 
Join 
The Observer, 
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 
Zsh,Zsh, Zsh Oh-that means 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
Loue~ 
.9/.gnes, JLincfrea, 'l(f?-[[y 
antiJen 


Queen'sCastle 
t4SJJ Temilt Lat, Across from Martin's. IN ROYAL PLAZA 23 
Expires 

TANNING BED SPECIAL 
April 30th, 1990 for ND or Saint Mary's Students Unlimited tanning, one month 
tq 


The Observer/Pat Kusek 

Junior point quard Tim Singleton has thrived in a reserve role since sopho.nore Elmer Bennett replaced him in the starting lineup. 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 'rOJRUFE 
American Heart ft (\ssociation V'" 

THE WHARF INTRODUCES 
AWine'r of a Deal 
Wine, Rose 
and a 

Complete Dinner for Two 
INCLUDING: 
A select Bottle of Wine (Must be 21 years of age.) 
. A Longstem Rose for your , Cqmplete Dinner for Two with soup or salad bar, nm of the 
menu·, including Live ~~~S:l!lt Maine Lobster, and choice of dessen. 
A Sweetheart ofa Deal 
Ont,$44.95 
THE WHARF 
300 E. COLFAX AT THE PJVEP. OFFER VALID FEOP.UAP.Y & MARCH. 1990 
Friday, March 9. 1990 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Friday 
3:30 p.m. "Composite Processing Fundamentals: An Analysis of Heat Transfer, Cure, Pressure, and Pulling Force in Pultrusion," Gibson Batch, Dept. of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, University of Min­nesota. Room 256 Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. Spon­sored by Dept. of Chemical Engineering. 
ACROSS 26 Narve 50 Piper's due 28 Tned for lofty 51 Like some bills
1 Life-jacket stuffing goals 52 Coincide in part 
32 Where to borrow 55 Mail suits sos 58 Typical Tyson 6 Respond to an bks. 
33 Manila triumphs run measures so Carr~ll's "slithy 10 How wild ones 
35 Eight-ball material 61 Moola 14 Solo 
15 Kind of code 36 Conductor 62 Deer: Ger. 
16 Tidal wave Buketoff 63 "While memory 17 Prepares 
holds-"· 


MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Fried Perch Pasta Bar Cod Wedges on Bun Apple Cheddar Quiche 
Research saves lives. 
s_taAmerican Heart 
~Association 
VVE'RE FIGHTING Fa< 'O.JRLIFE 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
~I) ~ 5\\CU\.D 
1\\E WI\C.\\ 
\.\~'5t.L A.t-ID 
EATS 11\EM 
GRffiL MEET 
M~t> 1Wel'l 
TUE.IR U~iiMU.'i 
1\.\E ...Olf 
DEMISE? 
EA\'5 -mE 
~1\C.Ii. 
Commissioner llpp/lctJ tions 

Special Euents Performing Rrts I de as and Issues Campus Entertainment Mouies Seruices Publicity Music 
Pick up Applications at Secretary's Desk, 2nd Floor, Lafortune. Applications due Weds., March 21. 
potatoes, in a way 18 Religious lore 20 Jaunty 22 G. O'Hara's pop song: 1918 23 Milton's serpent monster 25 Down.a comestible 

38 Hungarian "cubist" 40 French magazine 41 Angry fan 43 Long-eared S.A. rodents 45 Celtic Neptune 46 Annoying 48 Tyrannize 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Shak. 
64 Bikini tops 
65 Limned 
66 Kin of wimps 
DOWN 
1 Bassist Gary 
2 Suffix for margin or Saturn 
3 Soft -cover volume 4 OonaorTip 5 "Big Red Bus" author 6 Gotcha! 7 Actors Estrada and Rhodes 8 Amaryllis family 
member 9 Inventor of celluloid 
13 Lock's buddy 19 Giraffe's cousin 21 Fire extinguisher 24 Psalm, to a 
pretre 261rohclad 
defense, usually 27 Harshness 28" .. arms/ Are 
strong­bands": Longfellow 
29 Reinvested in C.D.'s, e.g. 
SPELUNKER 

30 Novelist Gardner et al. 31 Cloth colorers 34 President of Gabon: 1961-67 37 Social payment 39 Greek letter 
42 "Masters Without Slaves" author 
44 Frugal 47 Petruchio, to Kate 
49 Having cracks and crevices 51 Kaufman's "­Down Staircase" 52 Lollapalooza 53 Palm or sole 54 Violinist Leopold 56 Peruse 57 J.F.K. speedsters 58 U.S.S.R. security police 59 Stitch 
JAY HOSLER 
(construction oft used by Caesar) 11 Debatable 12 Bacchic party 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 




Sports
page 16 

Ellis leads ND despite pressures
Star forward pushes aside reporters, opposing rebounders 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Even though Ellis may have playing for the Illini. Ever since Associate Sports Editor chosen Notre Dame, you can reports surfaced that the Irish forgive him if he keeps thinking sophomore charged Illinois 
On an autumn day in 1987. a about Illinois. It isn't exactly a with recruiting improprieties, high school All-American matter of choice. reporters have hounded Ellis named LaPhonso Ellis sat be­In Ellis' freshman year, the for specific information or fon~ tlw media with lPtters-of­Fighting Irish were eliminated comments. intent from Illinois, Notre from the NCAA Tournament in "I try to eliminate a lot of Damn and UCLA in front of the second round. while Illinois pressure by not reading the him. went all the way to the Final things in the papers," said Ellis, 
To the surprise of almost ev­Four. One big rebounder may the team's leading rebounder eryone, tlw East St. Louis. Ill.. have been all that stood be­and already the holder of the resid<mt passPd up the wooing twe<'n the Illini and a national school's all-time blocked shots from his honw statP and an­title. record. "I like to think that not nouncPd his decision to spend "It did cross my mind because a whole lot of pressure has the next four years at Notre I've always wanted to win an been yut directly on my shoul­I>amP. NCAA title." Ellis said. "I would ders. 
"From what I understood, a wondm if I was tlwre, whether Irish coach Digger PhPlps lot of pt>oplP thought I was tlwy would have won. There doesn't quite agree with Ellis !waded straight for the wrre a lot of areas where I on that count. Uniwrsity of Illinois," said the could havP helped out when "The media rouldn'tleave him 6-foot-9 forward. "No one re­tlwy w.~~re gi1ing against bigger alone about it," said the 19­ally eneouragpd nw to go to teams. year Irish coach. "The letter (of 
Notre I>anw exePpt for Coach But it's this year that Ellis' investigation) comes out, and 
Shumate (former Irish assis­name has been connected with all of a sudden they're making 
tant JohnI wlwn he was recruit­tlw University of Illinois so 
see PHONZ I page 12
ing mP." often that he might as well be 

Notre Dame faces Blue Demons once again 
By GREG GUFFEY Notre Dame and De Paul, the top two inde-Assistant Sports Editor pendents in the eountry, are both fighting for spots in the tourney field. The Blue Demons are 
Notre I>anw nwn's basketball coach Digger 17-14 and need a victory over the Irish to im­l'lwlps has said all season that he wants the press the selection committee. Irish back in the form they exhibited against The Blue Demons edged the Irish 63-62 at the Vanderbilt and Georgetown in last year's NCAA Joyce ACC in February when Stephen Iloward Tournament. put in an errant Chuckie Murphy shot at the 
A regular season-ending contest Saturday at buzzer. De Paul (2:30 p.m. EST NBC) in the Hosemont The Irish led by as many as 18 points in that Horizon should tell him how dose the Irish are game and had a ()2-61 lead when Elmer Bennett to that goal. hit two free throws with five seconds left. 
Notre Dame is coming off impressive home Howard led all scorers with 26 points. wins over Missouri (98-67) and Kentucky (80-The Irish have had bad luck in the Horizon, 
67) in a three-day span. Those victories im­losing six of seven games. The last Irish win proved the Irish to 16-11 and virtually assured was a 70-54 triumph in 1986. them a spot in the 64-team NCAA tourney field. "I think it's always tough to play in the 
"That's like playing the first and second Horizon," Phelps said. "But I would hope that rounds in the tourney," !'helps said about those our 14 other road games have gotten us ready two wins. "It was a dogfight getting back to to play in the Horizon. From that standpoint, where we wanted to be. Against Missouri we put we know what the crowd is going to be like." it together for 40 minutes. Kentucky put us in a Sophomore forward David Booth still leads negative position in the first half. but we turned see HOOPS I page 13 that into a positive one in the last 20 minutes." 
The Observer/John Cluver 

LaPhonso Ellis and the Irish men's basketball team will try to avenge an earlier loss to De Paul this Saturday at the Rosemont Horizon. 
Dateline: ND, the year 2000; 


Irish baseball is on the road again What I see in the crystal ball 
By MIKE KAMRADT ergetic and fired up. They have "When you play in all the Sports Writer young teams and are capable of places we have, people are al­
Theresa Kelly 

knocking off some people." ways gunning for you." ex­"On the road again" by Willie Wednesday, the Irish will lly plains Murphy. "W<~ have to beSports Editor 
Nelson would be an appropriate to Washington for the College careful 1wery game and not let theme song for the Notre Dame Baseball Classic, co-hosted by our guard down but we ean't beWhat will the future hold baseball team as it will play in Washington and Notre Dame. tight. ..
for Notre Dame athletics? 

St. Louis and Seattle over The Irish will take on Air Force One of the things the 4-:{ IrishPkture yoursPif in the year Spring Break. The Irish will and Washington (9-0) Friday must do continue to do well to2000, when you seniors are play St. Louis on Saturday and March 16th. Saturday's slate be successful is steal bases.
returning for your 10-year 

then will battle Bradley and includes games with Duke (9-2) Through seven games the Irishreunion. and you freshmen NorthPrn Iowa on Sunday. and Air Force. All games will be have swiped 26 bases in :n at­will still be looking for your "St. Louis and Northern Iowa played at the Seattle Kingdomn. tempts after managing 13first job. 
would love to beat NotrP home park of the Seattle steals in the first s<wen gamesIncoming freshmen will Dame," remarked Irish head Mariners. Murphy expects no last ynar. 
not be allowed to pay

f' 
coach Pat Murphy. "They're en-drop off in competition here. "We don't have a lot oftuition, as the $4.2 billion speed." says Murphy. "But we
Notre Dame football 
run the bases well. We have totelevision eoven~,ge contract do special teams well," contin­
eovnrs all operating 
ues Murphy. "Coach Holtz told1~xpenses of the University. A 
me that basnrunning is like
meal at the dining hall. however. will still cost you six bucks. 
special teams."
Under thn terms of the contract, the Notre Dame football Two of the best on the squadteam will play a 25-game scheduln, with games on both 
are sophomores Dan BautchSaturdays and Sundays, as well as three Thursday night 
and Tom Allen. Bautch has acontests. All Thursday home games, according to University 
policy. rn ust end before midnight, or the football will turn 

team-high nine stmds including into a pumpkin if the women aren't sent home. 
a school record of five A new varsity men's volleyball facility is being built on the 
(including thrc!l swipes on Montana quad, right next to the new Heebok!Digger Phelps 
thriee straight pitches) last School of Fashion Design. 
Sunday against Trinity. The 5­Top-ranked Akron, coached by former Notre Dame head 
10, 160 pound eenterfielder roach Gerry Faust, is scheduled to play Notre Dame in the 
also boasts a .333 batting season opener for both schools. The Zips are favored by 
average and a .5:{8 on base four, but Notre Dame has the crowd in the new 200,000 seat 
percentage. Parseghian Stadium behind them. The new Michelob explod­
Allen has four steals in five ing scoreboard and the Bud Light halftime extravaganza 
games as a pinch runnnr and also point to a nnw age in Notrn Dame sports. 
second baseman. lie, like In keeping with the anti-discriminatory times, the Notre 
Bautch. stole home over the Damn mascot has been changed from a leprechaun to a 
weekend. dung beetle. Following the trend set by the University of 
Murphy hopes the hitting will Illinois. where the Fightin' Illini are now the Sharks, the 
come around on this trip. The 


~ <.:.. 
The Observer/File Photo 
see ROAD I page 14 see FUTURE I page 1 0 

Brian Piotrowicz will lead tbe lead the Notre Dame pitching staff when the Irish travel west tor spring break. 




