----------~-----------­
~------------------~-------------------------------------~-------------------­


VOL. XXIII NO. 132 THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Attacker arrested 
Student flags down police car 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
A 26-year old South Bend resident has been arrested and charged with criminal confine­ment following an early morn­ing incident on U.S. 31, accord­ing to Chuck llurley, assistant dimctor of Notre Dame Secu­rity. 
A Saint Mary's student was walking north on U.S. 31 near the Angela Boulevard intersec­tion at 3:15 a.m. Wednesday when she was attacked by a white male who emerged from some bushes beside the road, seized her, and tried to pull her towards the Burke Memorial Golf Course fence, according to Michael Garvey, assistant direc­tor of Notm Dame Public Hela­lions and Information. 
Her assailant proceeded to strike her once on the face be­fore she broke free and man­-aged to flag down a St. Joseph County police squad car. The squad car and other units pur­sued the suspect south on U.S. 31 and apprehended him at the intersection of U.S. 31 and An­gela Boulevard, according to Garvey. 
Seargent Charlie Fierrell of the St. Joseph County police said that criminal confinement is like "kidnapping." He said the charge is essentially holding someone against her will. This charge is a Class D felony. 
"It will be 72 hours before he can post bond," said Fierrell. 
see ATTACK I page 4 
Sacred Heart to open in autumn 

By COLLEEN GANNON 
News Writer 
Sacred Heart Church will reopen when students come back for the fall 1990 semester, according to Don Dedrick, director of the physical plant. 
"It has been a difficult job and a long job, but with ev­eryone's patience it will be done in the fall," said Dedrick. The job was very extensive and included the addition of an entire new slate roof to a new sound system. The total costs for the project will approach $6 million, he said. 
One important improve­ment is the new air condi­tioning system, he said. 
"Now, if we can control the 

.......................... 
heat in the Church, the Gre­gori paintings won't deterio­rate as quickly," said Dedrick. He said the past condition was a very tough environment for that kind of painting. They completely redid the Gregori paintings. 
Also, the stained glass will be completely renovated and restored. The stained glass was created by the Carmelite sisters. The 42 large, stained glass windows contain 114 life-size figures and 106 smaller figures. "It is the most extensive and valuable system of stained glass in the world," said Dedrick. 

In addition to the stained glass, Sacred Heart Church, constructed in 1871, con­tains 45 murals that include 244 ligures. 
Other improvements to the Church include the addition of all new pews, all new car­peting, insulation in the at­tic, copper gutters, new sta­tions of the cross frames, and a lire detection and sup­pression system. 

O'Hara to replace Tyson as Vice Pres. of Student Affairs 
By JANICE O'LEARY 
Associate News Editor 
Patricia O'Hara, associate professor of law at Notre Dame, has been rncommended to tlw Board of Trustees for appointrm~nt as vien president of Student Affairs. 
Her appointment is effective .July 1, the date when the cur­rnnt viee president for Student Affairs, Father David Tyson, assumes the presidency of the University of Portland. 
University President Father Edward Malloy said he had re­ceived approval from the Board's nominating committee to put O'Hara's name before the full board at its meeting on campus on May 4. "I have per­sonally contacted each trustee, and I am confident the ap­pointment will be enthusiasti­cally approved by the Board," he said. 
O'Hara said she is "honored 
by the nomination" and that 
she is looking forward to 
working with the students. 
"I have tremendous respect for what Father Tyson has done," O'Hara said. "My basic goal is to steer in the same di­rection and move forward." 
As vice-president of Student Affairs, O'Hara will be, for all practical purposes, the first female officer at the University of Notre Dame. 
However, in May 1971 Sister 
M. Alma Peter, C.S.C., the acting president of Saint Mary's College, was appointed vice president of Notre Dame in an­ticipation of a merger between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The merger was called off and Sister Peter was never really served in this capacity, accord­ing to Hichard Conklin, director 

Patricia O'Hara 
of Public Helations and Infor­mation. 
"I think it is wonderful for \1alloy to appoint women to key positions and I look forward to the challenge," O'Hara com­mented. 
The primary attraction of the position for O'Hara is the stu­dent contact. Student life and values are very important out-

The Observer/ Colin McAteer 

Turning out tunes 
PHISH, a popular New England band visiting Notre Dame by special arrangement, played at the Field House Mall yesterday for AnTostal's Wild Wednesday. Other events included Jordan Jammer Mini-Hoops, a slam dunk contest, and an air band contest. 
side of the classroom, she said. 

A native of San Francisco who earned her B.A. at the Uni­versity of Santa Clara in 1971, O'Hara was a Kiley Fellow at the Notre Dame Law School, graduating summa cum laude and first in her class in 1974. She practiced corporate law for six years with the law firm of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison in San Francisco before returning to the Notre Dame Law School to teach in 1981, according to Conklin. 
O'Hara said she will continue to teach one course each semester. 
Her specialty is corporate and securities law, and she has published in the field, as well as participated iri a number of panels treating insider trading and corporate takeovers. She is a member of the California State Bar, the Federal Bar for the Northern and Central Dis­tricts of California and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth District, Conklin said. 
In 1986, she was selected by law students as the distin­guished professor of the year. O'Hara has served on several University committees, induct­ing those on the curriculum and on evangelism, pastoral min­istry and social values. She also served on a committee to review Moreau Seminary. Since 1988, she has been a member of the 
NCAA  Committee  on  In­ 
fractions, said Conklin.  
"Prof.  O'Hara has  won  the  

confidence of the University community both for her profes­sional contributions and her understanding of the core val­ues of the institution," said !'a­ther Malloy. 
Japan-America Society discusses cultures 
By  JOHN  FISCHER  AND  
PATRICK  NINNEMAN  
News Writers  

At a panel discussion spon­sored by the Japan-America Society of Indiana, Dr. Jackson Bailey stated that "Our two so­cieties have become so inter­twined, that an immediate in­crease in cultural understand­ing is imperative." 
The Japan-America Society held the panel discussion Wednesday night in correlation with Notre Dame's "Year of the Family" and also presented a film entitled Japan 2000 -The View from Within. 
The panelists included Bailey. the director of the Institute for Education on Japan at Earlham College, Dr. Barbara Ito, the director of East Asian Studies at Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, Dr. George Wilson, director of the East Asian Studies Center at Indiana Uni­versity-Bloomington, and Dr. Jimmy Wheeler, director of Economic Studies at the Hud­son Institute. 
Each panelist addressed dif­ferent aspects of individuals' lives in Japan, and suggested potential future directions for the economy, society, and the family. 
Bailey,moderator of the panel discussion as well as a co-de­veloper of the Japan: 2000 tele­vision series, spoke first. noting that "over 100 Japanese firms have operations in Indiana, and many Japanese families live among us." These facts, Jack­
son  said. demand greater  un­ 
derstanding between  our  two  
peoples.  

lie noted that some racism exists amongst Amerieans to­wards the Japanese, partially a residual from World War II, but also as part of deeper cul­tural distrust. This racism threatens the relationship be­tween our two countries that has been so beneficial in the past. 
Ito discussed the rapid changes that have occurred in Japan over the past forty years. She said that "Japan previously had external models to help them shape society during peri­ods of change, but now society is breaking new ground." Change also happened more slowly in the past than it does 
see JAPAN I page 4 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, April 26, r990 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Printing rape victims' names 
not solution 
In February, the 
Des Moines Register 
printed a detailed ac­
count of a woman 
who had been ab­
ducted and raped. 
Although rapes are 
covered routinely by 
newspapers, this arti-Kelley Tuthill 
cle was different-the 
victim chose to have News Editor 
her name in print. 
This victim, a 29-year old mother, told the 
newspaper her story after Register Editor 
Geneva Overholser wrote a column saying 
that the media, by not running rape victim's 
names, only added to the stigma already at­
tached to the crime. 
I applaud the courage of this woman to 
come forward and tell readers about her 
horrible experience. This type of personal 
account allows others a glimpse into the 
painful healing process a rape victim must 
undergo. 
However, I could not support the idea that the names of all rape victims should be printed routinely. The role of the media, when reporting a rape, tries to warn the community of possible danger and print in­formation about the rapist so that individu­als with information about the crime might come forward, as Richard Conklin, director of Notre Dame Public Relations and Information said. 
I don't see how routinely printing the names of a rape victim could be a positive addition to newspapers. Would printing the name of a rape victim help destroy some of the stigmas attached to this horrible crime? If the public knew the name of the victim would they be any more compassionate to­wards her? I can't be sure, but I don't think so. By printing a victim's name, a newspa­per would only cause the victim, her family and friends more anguish. 
Newspapers do treat sexual offenses dif­ferently than other crimes, but for a good reason-to protect the individuals from further harm and embarrassment. Although I believe in this philosophy, I also agree with Overholser who says that we must talk 
more openly about rape. 
If women want to come to The Observer and tell about their experiences with rape or other sexual offenses, the news depart­ment would consider running their accounts including their names, if they choose. However, the news department will continue its policy of routinely protecting the anonymity of the victims of sexual offenses. 
By protecting the identities of the victims, I strongly believe that there is a better chance of women reporting rape. If news­papers decided to print the name of every woman raped, I fear that we will return to the days when women did not report rapes for fear that they would be treated more like criminals than victims. 
The views expressed in the Inside Colufl'l"' 

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 25. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
60 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 

Yesterday's high: 8 7 
Yesterday's low: 6 5 
Nation's high: 98 
(Palm Springs, Calif.) 
Nation's low: 2 1 
(West Yellowstone, 
Mont.) 
Forecast: Today will be 
partly sunny with a high 
near 85. Southwest wind 
at 15-20 mph. Tonight 
will be mostly clear with a 
low 60-65. 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
X

® © ~~~ ~ [I] ~ m 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Interested in Marketing and Relations? Stu­dent Union Board is interviewing for positions as account executives, artists, internal relation and external rela­tions commissioners, and marketing research commis­sioners. Anyone interested in these positions should con-' tact Barb at 239-7668 or come to the 2nd floor LaFor-1 tune Student Center. 
Copies of the Dome can be picked up at the Dome office 311 LaFortune Student Center Thursday and Friday from 1 to 5 p_m. 
WORLD 
A reputed mentor of pro-Iranian kidnappers urged them to continue holding their Western hostages Wednesday and accused the United States of sabotaging efforts to win the release of other captives. Shiite Moslem leader Hussein Musawi said a non-binding U.S. House of Representatives resolution Tuesday endorsing a united Jerusalem as Israel's capital complicated efforts to free another hostage. 
those of The Observer. 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 Today'sStaff: (219)-239-7471 
News 
Sports 
Joe Moody Chris Cooney BusinessDebbie Lohman 
Greg Guffey 
Sandra Wiegand: Caroline Clarke 
Catherine Kane 
Production 
Accent 
Andy Morrow GraphicsShonda Wilson 
Greg Tice 
Bradford Boehm Cristina Ortiz 
Fran Moyer 
Viewpoint 
CirculationJulie Sheperd Chris Hanely Ad Design 
Kate Foster 
Lu Medeiros Maria Blohm 
Kerry Clair 
Systems
Tony Paganelli Molly Schwartz Amy Eckert Cesar Capella 
Cara Eckman 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

INDIANA 
The. feasibility of casino gamblmg in Gary will be studied again this summer by a legislative committee, a leadership group of the General Assembly decided Wednesday. A special study committee endorsed casino gambling and voters in the Lake County city also embraced the idea in a non-binding referendum last November. However, a bill to legalize casinos in Gary failed during the 1990 session of the General Assembly. 
The mother of 
AIDS '!!r' victim Ryan White said Tr~ Wednesday that every family ' risks losing a member to the fa­tal disease because sex is a fact of life. Jeanne White, of Cicero, Ind., said the disease is inevitable because among the ways it is spread is through sexual con­tact. Her son, a hemophiliac, died April 8 after contracting the disease through infected blood five years ago at the age of 13. 
NATIONAL 
After years of delay and a last-minute snag, the Hubble Space Telescope was freed from the shuttle Discovery on Wednesday a}J.d, glinting in the sunlight, drifted into orbit on its 15-year search for new worlds."The first of NASA's great observatories is now on station at 330 nautical miles above the Earth," 
Mission Control's Jeffrey Carr said. 
are those of the author and not necessar---;---------~···.----------, 
An information session for Graduate Stu­dents regarding 1991-92 Fulbright, Full-Grant & Travel Grants for graduate study, research or travel abroad will be held in Room 319 Administration Building at 4:30p.m. 
Solidarity Fast for an end to world hunger will be sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition on April 27-28. The fasters will maintain a vigil at the Peace Memorial from 5 p.m. Friday through 5 p.m. Saturday. All are in­vited to join the rasters. 
Vice President Dan Quayle brought symbolic gifts of flour and cooking oil, the first installment of $24 million in U.S. food aid, for Wednesday's presidential inauguration of Violeta Chamorro. He also brought word that President Bush, earlier in the day, approved $2.5 million in medical supplies because he "recognizes the suffering of the people of Nicaragua." 
A federal magistrate set bond Wednesday for former Panamanian President Demetrio Lakas' son who is charged with threatening to kill President Bush. The Secret Service arrested Lakas, a 21-year-old architecture student at Lubbock Christian University, after he was quoted telling a local pawnbroker he was planning to "blow Bush's (expletive) head off." 
MARKET UPDATE 
Volume in shares 
133.48 Million 
"'t 0.79 
S&P Composite 332.03 "'t 1.67 Dow Jones Industrials 2,666.44 "'t 11.94 
Precious Metals Gold ..(} $5.70 to $370.70 I oz. 
Silver\} 9.1¢ to $4.919 I oz. 

Source: AP 
ALMANAC 

OnApril26: e In 1607: An expedition of English colonists, including Capt. John Smith, went ashore sat Cape Henry, Va., to establish the first permanent English settlement in the New World. e In 1900: Seismologist Charles Richter, who devised the earthquake-measuring scale that bears his name, was born in Hamilton, Ohio. e In 1964: The African nations of Tanganyika and Zanzibar merged to form Tanzania. e In 1986: The worst nuclear accident in history occurred at the Chernobyl plant in the So­viet Union. At least 31 So\1ets died as a direct result of the accident. 
Thursday, April 26, 1990 The Observer 

The Observer/ Colin McAteer 
Cindy Geisen, David Guffey, and Mary Abowd listen as Rev. Sara Webb Phillips speaks on her position as a 
minister in the United Methodist Church. The discussion was sponsored by the Committee on Notre Dame's 
Position on the Ordination of Women as the second part in a series. 
Bush defends policy on Lithuania 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­dent Bush, bitterly criticized by Lithuania, said Wednesday "I don't need any defense" for re­fusing to penalize the Soviet Union for its economic squeeze on the breakaway Baltic repub­lic. 
"The policies, decisions I've taken have had strong support from the American people, and that's who I work for," said Bush. The president did not re­ply whtm asked by a reporter how Lithuanians view his deci­sion. 
While Bush has won support from some congressional lead­ers for his strategy, there also were signs of restiveness Wednesday about the lack of a 
U.S. response. 
Senate Democratic Leader George Mitchell said Bush should take some action "to express disapproval and to de­ter further actions" against Lithuania. 
He suggested slowdowns in U.S.-Soviet talks on the envi­ronment, taxes, investment or trade but also said Bush was in the best position to decide. 
For a second straight day, Lithuanian President Vytautas Lan?sbergis denounced Bush's refusal to curb economic ties with the Soviets in reaction to coercion of Lithuania. 

"Our people remember how they were abandoned after World War II ... relegated to the Stalinist empire. It just saddens us to see Western na­tions, especially the United States, being misled by the So­viet Union," Landsbergis said in a telephone call with mem­bers of Congress. 
"The Soviets are strangling (our) nation like a boa con­strictor," he said, referring to the mounting pressure from Moscow. 
The Crime of the Week is the Nouember 30, 1989, burglary at Lafortune Student Center. 1nuestigators learned that during the course of that early morning burglary, the offender/s took no money, but did more than $7,000.00 in damages to the building. 
lnuestigators are pursuing some lead information in this case, but need further information from you in order to solue this crime. 
1f you haue any information about this or any other crime at Notre Dame, please call Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP. You won't haue to giue your name, and you'll be eligible for a cash reward. 
page 3 

Panel talkson ordination 
By KEVALEEN RYAN 
News Writer 
In an effort to promote awareness of the plight of Catholic women, the Committee on the Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women sponsored a panel discussion on "The Future of Women in the Church." 
This panel was designed to complement the forum Tuesday night in which Bishops William McManus and Kenneth Untener elaborated upon the position of the Church with respect to the ordination of women. 
Featured last evening to ad­dress this pressing issue was Rev. Sarah Webb Phillips, an ordained minister in the United Methodist Church; Cindy Geisen, a Catholic laywoman and 1980 Notre Dame graduate of the Masters of Divinity program; David Guffey, a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross and also a graduate of the Masters of Divinity Program, and, lastly, Mary Abowd, a senior in the Program of Liberal Studies. 
Commenting facetiously that this was her "one moment to change the course of Roman Catholic history," Phillips stressed the importance of the divine calling which can sum­mon all people from every reli­gion to devote their life to God. Her calling, in particular, was a distinct voice in her head which asked her to enter into a voca­tion which, after centuries of struggle, had only begun admit­ting women in 1956. 
Despite the lack of role mod­els in this field, she was finally brought to ordination by the Wesleyan approach to theology. John Wesley's quadrilaterals consist of four authorities to which appeal: Scripture, tradi­tion, experience and reason. 
Scripture, the first of the four norms, is essential to the proclamation of the ordination of women. Phillips quoted Phyl­lis Tribble in saying that the Bible is a "powerful testimony to the place of history in God's salvation history." 
God's original intention, said Phillips, for men and women in creation was companionship, not hierarchy. Along the same lines, Jesus opposed Jewish tradition acknowledging through his actions the "worth of women in the kingdom of God." 
According to Phillips, what 

HortQ.~9.RqtrY ,P.tQ~lena 
TRAIL RIDES 
Over 500 acres of 219-778-4625
+1t
meadows, ponds, OPEN 10 AM DAILY woods. 2525 E. 850 N. LA PORTE, IN 
1lh Mi. south of Heston on Fail Rd. (200 E.). Turn on 850 N. 
Chalk another one uplor the KING! 

Ha_p' 21st Bldh~ 
PAl LANIGAN 
bam the 3rd ftoor 
anchors theology 111 the history of the Church is tradition. She stated that although the actual ordination of women in rela­tively new, the idea, though largely repressed by a male­dominated society, has been around for centuries. Much of its history centers around the right to preach rather than who can serve sacraments. For Protestants, Phillips said, the proclamation of God's Word is equally as sacramental. 
"When God commends us to do a thing, it is the highest pos­sible evidence that we can do it." This theme from the 19th century revival movement de­fines the third authority for theology, experience. Thus, the fact that a woman can experi­ence a call from God is testi­mony to her ability to fulfil it. 
The final norm of the quadri­lateral, reason, does not hin­der, but supports, he ordina­tion of women. It led women to the conclusion that the "Church was being disobedient when it denied God's call to women," said Phillips. 
The second panelist, Geisen, addressed audience in the form of stories, a "litany a womens' experiences." She specifically demonstrated the pain women have experienced as a result of the Church's stand against or­dination. 
"I realized that the route of the pain for me was that once again the message became clear ... you, woman, are not created in God's image," said Geisen. 
She also stated that the ordi­nation of women are not on the distant horizon, but is a pre­sent reality not recognized by the institutional Church. Never­theless, they are ordained again and again in their everyday work. 
"I am a Homan Catholic priest," she said. 
The final panelist addressed the issue from her perspective as a student concerned about "the full personhood of women." Abowd stated that the second class perception of women in the Catholic Chureh is a direct result of the constant bombardment of male imagery with respect to God. 
For progress to be made in the institutional Chureh, a in­clusive perception of God must be adopted. According to her, God is "lie, She, and Neither." 
-~-----~--,...._~----~-~---~---~--~--­
page 4 
Japan 
continued from page 1 
now. This, she notes, has made many people nervous. 
She also said that things are no longer predictable in Japan. Conservative societal institu­tions, which have changed little since WWII, now are changing daily. Experiments are being tested in education and the workplace, much to the dismay of older generations, whom, Ito noted "are resisting change as the seeds of complacency," 
The main debate on this issue is whether the government should continue its policy of providing the majority of health care to the elderly or if that re­sponsibility should be shifted to the family, according to Ito. 
Wilson, the next speaker, dis­cussed the enormous changes that took place last year in Japanese politics. He says that women now possess enough in­fluence to constitute an impor­tant part of the voting public, and they are assuming a stronger role in politics, as represented by parliamentarian Doi, who heads the Japan's so­cialist party. This has forced big policy re-evaluations in Japan's ruling party for the past 40 years, the Liberal Democratic Party (LOP). 
Wilson noted that the LOP has "traditionally been very male based, with strong ties between the male politicians and male government bureau­crats." This has kept a very narrow policy scope on Japanese government agenda since WWII. Wilson said that women supporters fled the LOP after a series of scandals in 1989, involving disclosure of a reitl estate company buying in­fluence from the LOP. Now, he noted, a broader agenda has been embraced. 
Furthermore, Wilson said, that things are not so great with small Japanese industry. He said "As larger companies become more international, they are buying and assembling more parts elsewhere, in an at­tempt to be closer to their markets and also as a response to protectionist fears." These moves have put the squeeze on a sector of Japanese economy that once exemplified efficiency and productivity. 
Wheeler, in the final address of the evening, discussed two major problems with Japan's economy: the internationaliza­tion of its population and the restructuring of industry. One challenge facing the new gener­ation is that,"technologically, Japan has gone from a follower to the frontier. Once the fron-tier is reached, there is no Japanese products when they road." travel abroad, because they are 

Wheeler said that "as more so significantly cheaper in for­Japanese travel and live eign countries. Wilson argued abroad, they realize that things "It is not a matter of will the are not so great back home." Japanese consumer revolt, it is Many Japanese will stock up on a matter of when." 
The film touched on three of the modern problems for Japan which were brought up in the discussion. Women are partic­ipating in the workforce to a greater extent, and are increas­ing calls for equality. 
200,000 people resettle around Cherynobyl site 
Chernobyl (AP) Another 200,000 people will be resettled from areas irradiated in the Chernobyl nuclear power plant explosion in a $26 billion pro­gram adopted by the Soviet leg­islature on Wednesday, the eve of the fourth anniversary of the disaster. 
Many members of the legisla­ture, the Supreme Soviet, criti­cized the plan as inadequate to deal with the health, agricul­tural, economic and environ­mental aftermath of the Ukraine accident. Legislator Yuri Scherback estimated 250 billion rubles ($405 billion) are needed over the next ten years. 
Official reports say 31 people were killed when one of four reactors at Chernobyl caught fire and exploded April 26, 1986. Unofficial reports say 250 died. The blast spewed ce­sium, strontium and plutonium across much of the Ukraine, Byelorussia and Russia and sent a cloud of. radioactive gas around the world. 
After a day of debate, includ­ing charges of an official cover-
Attack 
continued from page 1 
During that time the St. Joseph County prosecutors office will read over various reports and determine whether any other charges will be brought against this individual, Hurley said. 
There are tentative plans for student victms of similar recent attacks in the area to have the opportunity to view the suspect in a police lineup on Friday, said Hurley. 
Both Hurley and Fierrell said that it was too early to com­
ment  on  whether this  attack  
was  related  to  other  recent  
campus attacks.  

"As the weather gets warmer you need to be aware of your personal security," said Hurley. He warned women to be careful about walking or jogging around isolated areas of cam­pus alone. 
up of the disaster and bungled evacuations, the Supreme Soviet endorsed a program drafted by the three affected republics and the central government for dealing with Chernobyl from 1990-92, Tass news agency reported. About 180,000 to 200,000 people still living in contaminated areas will be resettled. 
About 116,000 people were evacuated in the months after the accident, and some Soviet scientists and politicians have been campaigning since then for further resettlements. They say 4 million Soviets are living on contaminated land. 
Wednesday's resolution also provides for stepping up medi­cal aid to residents of the con­taminated zone and stabilizing radiation levels. 
Many residents have com-staging demonstrations this plained of inadequate medical week. Further protests are care. Cases of anemia, leukemia planned Thursday, the fourth and cancers have been reported anniversary, in Byelorussia and rising among people living on the Ukraine. irradiated land. Many residents A 24-hour world telethon for still eat irradiated food because Chernobyl victims began in alternatives are not available. Moscow Wednesday night and 
After years of passivity, the had raised $4.8 million in the le sufferin P'lve been 
SINGER KEYBDARDIS,. 
RICK KELLEY 
CNN showed live scenes of the telethon to U.S. viewers. Many of the donations came from the United States, Japan and West­ern Europe, Tass said. 
Protesters demand trials for the officials who concealed the extent of the danger and de­layed evacuating contaminated 
MUST LIQUIDATE ENTIRE STOCKI 
L.A. GEAR 
FROM $19 99 
AND UP 
OVER 1 ,000 PR. OF SHOES FOR $999/PAIR 
OVER J.OOO PAIR 
Thursday, April 26, 1990 The Observer page·5 
Germanys' Chile expert_discusses new democratic rule
• 
commission which will investi­
econom1es By PATRICK HEALY 
News Writer gate human rights violationswill unite Hugo Fruhling, a renowned and publish a final report expert on Chile, discussed the about actions of the military 
EAST BEHLIN (APl -Just problems that nation's new regime. 
eight weeks from now, East Germans will make more money. pay fewer taxes and see some of tlwir savings triple in size. 
But prices will surely rise, parts of bank accounts may be frozen, and workers will still make only about a third as much as their neighbors in the West. 
That is the scenario both Germanys predict will begin to unfold July 2, when the coun­tries proelaim economic unity and begin one of history's most extraordinary experiments. 
East Germans will suddenly have greater access to better goods. But the mern aet of buy­ing them may b1~gin to put hun­dreds of thousands of their countrymen out of work as East Germans shun their coun­try's goods for bdtnr Western ones. 
Fartories and former state­run enterpris1~s will be free to compPte in a free market shorn of Communist regulation. But they will face Western competi­tion and many will surely fold. 
While all of this is happening, investors may begin moving in to tap tlw nnw consumer mar­kPt and tlw dwap labor in the rww neonomic frontier. The in­vestnwnt may create new jobs, raisn living standards and. ul­timatl~ly, bring parity hntween East and W1~st. 
"I am optimistic that there will be an neonomic awakening after a period of pain." said .hwrgen Wagner, an economist with Commmzbank in Frank­furt. 
democratic government is fac­ing regarding human rights violations committed during the Pinochet regime in a lecture Wednesday. 
huhling's lecture, titled "Human Rights and the Transi­tion to Democracy in Chile," fo­cused on how new Chilean President Allouin will approach the investigation and prosecu­tion of those who committed human rights abuses during Augusto Pinochet's military rule. 
Fruhling said that the human rights issue is very "salient" and must be addressed for a number of reasons. Most im­portant was the magnitude of human rights abuses during the Pinochet regime. Fruhling said that his "repressive policies" resulted in the disappearance of 700 people, 2,000 deaths, and thousands of others tor­tured and detained. 
The human rights organiza­tions established shortly after Pinochet came to power also forces Allouin to address the issue, as does the fact that the human rights abuses were "the issue whkh the opposition ral­lied around" to finally drive Pinodwt out of office. 
Fruhling said that Allouin's new government faces several dilemmas because of the crimes committed by the previous regime. One is the faet that the government must address the human rights issues for the reasons mentioned above. However, because Pinochet re­mains lumd of the military, ac­tion in resolving this issue might cause a clash between the military and the govern-

The Observer/ Colin McAteer Hugo Fruhling makes a point at a lecture last night on the transition to democracy in Chile under the leadership of new President Allouin. 
ment. amnesty law passed by Pinochet 
Allouin must also decide how in 1978 which prevents the to deal with political prisoners punishment of those commit­who opposed Pinochet, some of ting human rights violations whom feel the new government prior to that time. is not much different from the previous one. The amnesty law makes it dif­
According to Fruhling, the ficult for Allouin to investigate new government faces legal crimes before that period,problems in trying to investi­forcing him to focus on the pe­gate and prosecute past human riod from 1978 until he took rights violations. The most im­office a month ago. portant one hinges on an 

Fruhling said that Allouin is hoping to address the issue most effectively through a 

Buy One Pair -Get Another For A $1 . 
Buy a complete pair of glosses (frames and lenses) from our Fashion Collection and get another pair from our recently expanded Premium selection (some 
BLACKWOOD APARTMENTS 
prescription) for just ONE DOLLAR! 
OMerlncludes clear. plo!flc. lenoes. No other discounts. prev10us orders, or sale Items oppty. Umtted Time afer. 

. Affordable Rent with Heat Included . Great E. Jefferson Blvd. Location 
DAILY OR 2 PAIRS 
EXTENDED WEAR OF TINTED 
$3998 $9998 
Soffmote clear. doily, or SoMmote BorB & L ·o· timed extended wear lenses lenoes. In 2 different colon Eye exam required for contact~ Some power restrictions apply 
Although the commission has no formal powers, Allouin hopes that the report will "punish morally those who committed crimes" by making the crimes public. 
Fruhling said he is not sure whether the government will bring cases to trial or give amnesty for all crimes commit­ted between 1978-1990. lie said that he "fears" Allouin will grant amnesty after the results of the commission's report are published. 
Neglecting past human rights abuses "is a policy which will fail," said Fruhling, bee a use the new government "will command less moral respect than one which faces the question of bringing out the truth." 
Fruhling said that "the issue of human rights should be dealt with in a short time span," as quickly and nffectively as possi­ble. 
When ask1~d how far the any investigations can go, Fruhling said that they "cannot go too 
far," especially because "Allouin does not have a major­ity in Congress." lie said any­thing leading to a convietion of a crime before 1978 would "be seen as unfavorable," primarily by those effected most by such convictions, namely those in Pinochet's military government. 
Fruhling is a lawynr who at­tended the University of Chile as well as Harvard Law School. The lecture, held in the Law School, was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute and the Center for Civil and Human Rights. 
Call288-2597 for Further Information on 1
EE aOOrtr: 
and 2 Bedrooms Starting at $340. 
Dorland Group Property Managed by Dorenkamper 


. Friendly Community Atmosphere
llll E. Ireland Road 291-4000 
Eye Exama Available 
. 9 Month Student Leases 
other dociOfl l!xa ftlled • All Insurance pions welcome
CONTACT LENS SPECIALS GM Preferred VIsion Provide,... progron1 • 't'tropolilon Ford • Chrysler • Worner Gear • ~·. · t'r:o1d 


page 6 
•
Chamorro sworn 1n 
11 year Sandanista rule ends 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) -Violeta Chamorro took the presidential oath Wednesday, ending 11 years of leftist San­dinista rule in Central Amer­ica's largest country. She im­mediately proclaimed a political amnesty and ended the military draft. 
"This blessed Nicaragua, in­stead of burying its sons in a fratricidal war, will bury its weapons forever, so the cannon will never roar again," Chamorro told a crowd of 20,000 inside a Managua base­ball stadium. 
Despite the conciliator) words, the atmosphere at thf downtown stadium where the inaugural was held was often rowdy and divisive. 
Spectators on the Sandinista side hurled water balloons at Chamorro as she entered the stadium. and one splattered her skirt. Outgoing President Daniel Ortega and his wife, Rosario Murillo, were pelted with watermelon rinds tossed by United National Opposition partisans as they made their entrance. 
The transition follows nine years of a U.S.-backed insur­gency in which 30,000 people died. Chamorro inherits a le­gacy of suspicion and distrust, a nation of 3.5 million residents that resembles an armed camp and an economy shattered by the U.S. trade embargo and rampant inflation. 
The inauguration of Chamorro, a conservative elected in February, brought immediate resumption of U.S. aid and trade assistance. 
Ortega lashed at the United States-which backed the Con­tra rebels -for supporting an "unjust and cruel war." He promised to lead a constructive opposition and said if civil war broke out again, "the elections would have been for nothing." 
Chamorro said Gen. Hum­berto Ortega, former President Ortega's brother, will head the 
army but that she would as­sume the post of defense minis­ter to "direct personally the processes of demobilization and demilitarization and to put an end to the war." 
She said she would order Gen. Ortega to establish a plan to 
reduce the size of the Sandin-...~,.....,...,..,.....,,_...-~ ista army and got her b cheer when she decreed an e 
to the extremely unpopul draft. She added that draftees already in service would be re-~·---NII~~~~ 
leased early. 1• 
Chamorro also said she would grant "a wide and un­conditional amnesty" to those responsible for political crimes. 
The Ortega appointment drew objections from Chamorro's al­lies in the UNO, a coalition of 
14 parties, and in the Contra movement. 
At least two top prominent anti-Sandinista leaders said they wouldn't serve in Chamorro's Cabinet because of the Ortega appointment. Gilberto Cuadra, president of Nicaragua's most influential business organization, had I been slotted as minister for construction and transporta­tion; Jaime Cuadra, unrelated to Gilberto, had been desig­nated agriculture minister. 
Dignitaries from 83 coun-I tries, including Vice President Dan Quayle, and nine interna­tional organizations attended the inauguration. Also present were members of the Sandin­ista Cabinet and high-ranking officers of the Sandinista army. 
Envoys of nations that had! been on unfriendly terms with [ the Sandinistas entered the stadium to catcalls, boos and insults. El Salvador's rightis1 president, Alfredo Cristiani. and Quayle were greeted with chants of "Assassin, assassin." 
Quayle carried a letter to Chamorro from former Presi· dent Reagan, who told her thal "with your assumption of the presidency, the people ol Nicaragua can live in hope. Their freedoms can be restored. Their dreams and aspirations can be met." 
Quayle brought symbolic gifts 
nf fl,.,.,, ... n.-ro....l .......... ,...1~.:-.-.... -!1 ..1.L 
lirst installment of $24 million 
in U.S. food aid. Nicaragua's 
economy has faltered so much 
under last year's 1,800 percent 
inflation rate that shortages of 
food occurred, requiring the 
importing of such staples as 
beans and rice. 
He also brought word that President Bush has approved $2.5 million in medical supplies, signed a formal declaration saying Nicaragua is no longer a Marxist-Leninist country, re­stored its quota for sugar ex­ports to the United States and made businesses wishing to in­vest in the country eligible for low-cost government loans. 
Quayle called Chamorro's in­auguration "the miracle of Managua." 
In her speech, Chamorro said she would ask the National Assembly to "repair injustices committed" by seizure of prop­erty under Sandinista rule, but added that peasants will be guaranteed title to property re­distributed under the Sandin­ista agrarian reform program. 
She also said economic con­
trols would be lifted in an ef­
fort to spur economic produc­
tion, a process already begun 
by the Sandinistas. 
The streets of Managua were largely empty Wednesday, ana­tional holiday and the 21,000­
The Observer 
Princeton students end occupation 
PRINCETON, N.J. (AP) Princeton University students ended a 32 1/2-hour occupation of President's Harold Shapiro's office Wednesday after officials agreed to expand programs dealing with sexual harassment and assault. 
University officials refused to meet the specific demands of the 30 students who invaded the office early Tuesday. But they agreed to devote more re­sources to expand the pro­grams to include graduate stu­dents. 
If the counseling center needs more staff to do so, the univer­sity will provide it, Vice Presi­dent Thomas Wright said in a statement. 
The students had demanded that center staff be doubled to three full-time therapists. 
"The administration is de­lighted that we've resolved this issue without violent confronta­tion ... without having to result to the use of force," said Princeton spokeswoman Jacquelyn Savani. 
The university also agreed to create a task force to design the new programs, and to hold a forum in the fall to address the center's needs. 
The protesters say 208 stu­dents sought counseling at the center during the 1988-89 aca­demic year, up from fewer than 50 the year before. 
Wright had said Tuesday that the administration could not increase funding for a program in the middle of the school year. 
He told the students to follow formal channels and appeal to the Priorities Committee, which meets in the fall and makes budget recommendations for the following school year. 
Thursday, April 26, 1990 

. .: . . . 
_!!!!I!!!!I_I!J __!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!! 
·====······= 
COLLEG~~ 
GRADUATE 
FINANCE 
PLAN 
YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 
YOU'VE EARNED IT. 

Jordan's Auto Mall 
609 E. Jefferson Mishawaka (219) 259-1981 

Thursday, April 26, 1990 The Observer 
page 7 

Proposed Israel government fails Women deem men 
JEHUSALEM (AP) -Labor Party leader Shimon Peres said Wednesday he failed in his at­tempts to form Israel's next government. 
Peres had been trying to put together a new governing coali­tion since his center-left party engineered the collapse of a Labor-Likud government on March 15. 
Peres' decision to abandon his attempts came after a key prospective defector from Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's right-wing Likud bloc said he would stay with Likud in spite of Labor's efforts to lure him into a coalition. 
"I have decided to go to a Likud-headed coalition," Eco­nomics Minister Yitzhak Modai announced in a nationally broadcast Israel Television in­terview. 
Modai blamed Labor's nego­tiating team, which he said tor­pedoed his agreement with Perns and other party leaders. 
I lis statement ended two days of intensive negotiations with both Peres and Shamir and brought Israel's two major parties back to square one of their political deadlock. Each 

MOVI UP MOVI OUTI 
controls 60 seats in the 120­member Parliament. 
Shamir's 15-month Cabinet fell last month over Likud's re­fusal to accept a U.S. formula for arranging Israeli-Pales­tinian peace talks. 
Peres had a Thursday mid­night deadline for presenting a government. He told reporters he will give back his mandate to President Chaim Herzog. 
Herzog may then hold an­
as "self-centered'' 
other round of negotiations with Israel's political parties or immediately give Shamir the NEW YORK (AP)-American task of fashioning a coalition. women increasingly believe 
Peres said he doubts that most men are mean, manipula­Shamir would be able to form a tive, oversexed, self-centered government, "and if he suc­and lazy, according to a survey ceeds, it would be an unsuc­released Wednesday. And the cessful government. We talk women are getting annoyed. about an extremist, right-wing The Roper Organization poll government the like of which found growing numbers of Israel never had." women expressing sensitivity to 
Likud officials said they were sexism and unhappiness with encouraged by Modai's deci­men on many issues. It com­sion. pared data from identical ques­
"Peres has no possibility tions asked 20 years ago. of forming a government. I Some of the changes were hope we are now beginning to sizable. In 1970, for example, 
get out of the political crisis two-thirds of women agreed and I hope that Yitzhak Shamir that "most men are basicallywould form and head a gov­kind, gentle and thoughtful." In ernment," Cabinet minister the new poll, only half of the Ehud Olmert said. 3,000 women who were sur­
Shamir seemed less certain, veyed agreed. acknowledging in an Israel Ra­The reason? "Women's dio interview that "in a political growing dissatisfaction with crisis, everything is possible." men is undoubtedly derived 
Israel Television said from their own rising expecta­"another political turnabout is tions," the survey's authors possible even tomorrow," be­said. "The more independent fore Peres heads for Herzog's women of today expect more residence. from men." 
Labor's ruling bureau also Those expectations appar­meets Thursday. ently are going unfulfilled. Most 
At the end of the semester, the move is on ... to home, to a new apartment or a new job. Whether you're mov1ng from a dorm or off-campus apartment, you'll find Hertz Penske's "do-it-yourself" move is quick, easy and very affordable. 
Get together with a couple of friends or go it alone. Hertz Penske will help you "keep it all together" with everything from packaging materials and accessories to a moving guide that helps you plan every step. Our trucks are some of the newest on the road and are available with all the good stuff ... automatic trans­mission, air conditioning, radio, easy load ramp and much more. 
For an estimate of what your move will cost, or to make a reservation, call today. And be sure to mention your college to receive your "return discount," a 10% discount for your return to school ... or your next move. 
1·800·111·0177 
Hertz 
PENSKE 
TruckRental 
women rated men negatively on 
their egos, libidos and domes­
ticity. Sizable minorities went 
further: 42 percent, for in­
stance, called men "basically 
selfish and self-centered." 
Prurience took a particular 

pounding. Fifty-four percent of 
the women who were surveyed 
agreed that "most men look at 
a woman and immediately think 
how it would be to go to bed 
with her." In 1970, 41 percent 
had agreed. 
The survey, financed by Philip 

Morris USA in the name of its 
Virginia Slims cigarettes, was 
conducted July 22 through Aug. 
12 by in-person interviews with 
a random sample of women 
across the country. It had a 
margin of error of plus or mi­
nus 2 percentage points. 
Respondents overwhelmingly 

said women have made 
progress in obtaining job op­
portunities, equitable salaries 
and acceptance as political 
leaders. But they also ex­
pressed greater awareness of 
continuing discrimination. 
Moreover, six in 10 working 

women said juggling jobs and 
families put them under "a lot 
of stress," and nearly as many 
felt guilty about time they 
spend at work and away from 
their families. 
"Their frustration comes out 

of trying to be superwomen," 
said Ellen Merlo, a Philip Mor­
ris vice president. "Women are 
handling so many aspects of 
life -trying to achieve success 
in careers, wanting to be a wife 
and a mother, run a home, and 
do it all well. It's a lot for any­
one to handle." 
Because men traditionally 

have escaped most household 
and child-rearing duties, Merlo 
said, "The frustration is ex­
pressed in hostility toward 
men. Women are looking to 
men for more support. And 
definitely their attitude toward 
men has turned somewhat 
sour." 
The second-greatest cause of resentment in survey respon­dents' lives was their mates' failure to help with household chores, cited by 52 percent. Only money was a greater cause of woe. 
"As women contribute more to family income, they expect a more equitable division of the household responsibilities in return," the survey said. While many men acknowledge re­sponsibility for household work, it added, "Women indi­cate that men are failing to live up to this ideal, and that their failure is a major source of ir­ritation." 
But diapers and dishes arc by no means the sole problem: Many women in the survey ex­pressed negative views of men's attitudes as well as their behav­ior. Among the findings: 
-Fifty-eight percent of women agreed that "most men think only their own opinions about the world are impor­tant." That was up from 50 percent in 1970. 
-Given the statement, "Most men find it necessary for their egos to keep women down," 55 percent agreed, up from 49 percent 20 years ago. 
-Fifty-three percent agreed that "most men are interested in their work and life outside the home and don't pay much attention to things going on at home." That was up from 39 percent in 1970. 
The poll found similar in­creases in sensitivity to sexism. 



Business
Thursday, April 26, 1990 
page 9 
Number of Indiana small businesses grew in 1989 
Ntlw business incorpora­said, "Small business growthtions incroasp,d 7. :~ percent in Indiana remains a bright
in 1989 <'ompared to 1988, our nation's
spot in econ· ranking the slate eighth in omy."
the nation for business star­tups. Susan Engeleiter an­Business failures in lndi· nmuH·od recently. ana declined by 0.3 percent.;,;, 
during the same time period. ''' Engnleiter. administrator she said.
of tho U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), said The SBA's Office of Advo­
that, "The nation's 20 mil· cacy, in an analysis of data 
lion small business en­
collected by Dun & Brad· lr!~preneurs continue to have street Corporation, showed a positive impact on the U.S. 
that nationally, new business neonomy." 
in<~orporations declined by 
"Small businesses generate 1.1 percent while business ··· two of every three new jobs, failures dropped by 12.9 train two-thirds of our percent. Arkansas recorded workers, and create more the largest percentage gain than half of our nation's (52%) in new business incor­technical innovations," she porations. 
Michiana Better Business Bureau affects $18 million in area spending 
The Better Business Bureau counted for a $2,000 purchase pre-purchase inquirtes (BBB) of Michiana has an esti­in our local economy." amounting to $1 ,:{:39.160. mated impact on nearly $18 The amount of money in­Smart consumers know they 
million in annual spending by volved in each call during the should 'check out' an unfamil­
Michiana consumers, according survey averaged $3,134.44, iar company before doing busi­
to figures released by Steve Sajko said. The total amount ness." Sajko, BBB operations man­for inquiries and complaints Commenting on the survey rn­ager. was $1,495,125.62. sults, Morris Cochran, chief ex­
"It shows the BBB's esti­ecutive of!1cer of the BBB of"Between March 15 and April mated annual impact is just Michiana, said, "The greatest13, 1990, we asked persons over $17.9 million," he said. thing a BBB does is to be ancalling the Bureau to give us a Calls to the BHB during the educator and a source of in­dollar figure for their com­survey period were not unlike formation, which leads to fewerplaints and pre-purchase in­any other time of the year, consumers being hurt and con­quiries." Sajko explained. 
Sajko said. Although the BBB is fused."
"For example, if a consumer 
best known for its complaint­

had an estimate of $2,000 for a handling abilities, he said, the "Better educated consumers home remodeling job and he vast majority of calls to the Bu­make wiser choices in the mar­
called us to check out the firm's reau are not complaints. ketplace, which helps responsi­reliability before he signed the 
"During our survey period, ble business in making a contract, that phone call ac­
79.9 percent of all calls were profit," he said. 
Department of Commerce Report shows improvement in Ind. economy 
BY SANDRA WIEGAND the workplace. $300,000 annually. provide technical assistance in report states. Business Editor From eight to eleven million •Grants to help pay salaries, the areas of municipal finance, •The Strategic Development dollars in IDOC grants will be office costs and other adminis­infrastructure development, Fund aims at improving indus­
Substantial improvement in awarded to aid development in trative expenses will be strategic planning and housing. trial operations in major com­the economic security of Indi­rural and low to moderate in­awarded in conjunction with In the area of business devel­panies in Indiana. Three million ana canw about in 1989, ac­come areas during the 1989-90 the Local Economic Develop­opment, over 500 more jobs dollars is awarded biannually. eording to the Indiana Depart­cycle, the report says. ment Organization Matching were retained or created by In­•The "Made IN Indiana" Pro­ment of Commerce (IDOC) He­•To help Indiana communi· Grant Program. diana companies in 1989 than gram provides information on port released recently. ties to promote themselves as For every two dollars raised in 1988 as the result of efforts state products to both busi­
One aspect that has benn en­promising locations for busi­locally by a community eco­by the !DOC, the report says, nesses and buyers through a hancnd, according to the re­ness and for residential living, nomic development organiza­and a $446,260,264 increase in computerized database. 
the Community Promotion tion, one dollar will be con­private investment was gener­•A program aimed ai Indianaport. is community develop­Matching Program was initi­tributed by the moe toward ated. teachers, principals and schoolment. 
ated. the grants. !DOC will contribute "We were more efficient in administrators, Advancement
•A Community Focus Fund was implement1~d to provide fi­The program will target one million dollars annually. our accomplishments because for Global Education entails the 
•Five new community devel­distribution of grants to teach,
naneial assistance to develop communities with populations we achieved them by investing 
housing, revitalize neighbor­of under 5,000, and will have a opment specialists were added only $18 million; that is $14 work or study overseas. Up to 
hoods and rovide da care in budget of approximately to the IDOC staff in 1989 to million fewer than in 1988," the $125,000 is awarded annually. 
• • NOTRE DAME AVE. •• •• APARTMENTS •
•
NOW OFFERING •• 
•• 
•
• Summer Special 
•
Low monthly rate for summer months
• 
•
• 
Early Bird Special 
Sign up before May 15th for Fall Semester and receive a 10o/o discount 
•
• Completely furnished • OfT-street parking• • Balconies • On-site management & maintenance •• 
• Laundry Facilities • All deluxe features 
•
• Our office is conveniently located at 820 ND Ave. 
•
• Call 234-6647 for all details •
•
• 

Viewpoint
page10 Thursday, April 26, 1990 
-Ihe ObserYer _ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor.....•...........•...•.Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager .........Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ...............Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor .....................Greg Guffey Production Manager ........Joe Zadrozny Accent Editor.................Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ....Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .........................Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........Corinne Pavlis Controller.......................Chris Anderson Art Director..................Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS 
Ceremony will commemorate graduating senior volunteers 
Dear Editor: service. Next year, these volun­at the ceremony will be Fr. 
On May 19, the Class of 1990 teers will be on programs that Monk Malloy, Fr. Don McNeill, begins a new tradition at Notre will take them from the heart director of the CSC and Mary Dame. For many years, Notre of Africa to the heart of Ann Roemer, director of Dame has had a commissioning Chicago in the true spirit of senior/alumni programs at the ceremony for the graduating service. esc. ROTC students who are becom­The ceremony will take place Volunteering seniors will be ing officers in the U.S. armed the day before graduation, carrying the message of Notre forces. In a parallel, but also May 19, at 11 a.m. in Dame to areas in our world different, spirit, this spring Washington Hall. Any senior that desperately need help. If Notre Dame will hold a cere­who will be doing volunteer you are a senior who will be mony for graduating seniors work next year is asked to sign volunteering next year, please who will be doing volunteer up at the Senior Class office or sign up and attend the cere­work next year. at the Center for Social mony. If you are not, please Dear Editor: 
charge were added to eachNearly 10 percent of every Concerns before May 1 so that pray for all of us; we will need I felt Michael Owen's Inside student's bill at the start of hisgraduating class from Notre invitations can be sent to his it. Column (The Observer, April
t final semester at Notre Dame,
parents at home and his name Michael Carrigan
I Dame goes on to some kind of 20) captured my feelings about significant savings could result. 
r volunteer work. Few schools, if can be added to the ceremony Dillon Hall the "diploma fee." He did not, The employee hours to send out
April 19, 1990
any, can match this record of program. Among the speakers
r however, make any suggestions and receive the billing, plus the 
r 
on changing this policy. If the postage, could be incorporated
r 
fee were absorbed over the into a standard billing, rather 
r Survey intended 
course of four years, it would than a special billing. seem much less offensive than a 
r to promote 
separate billing just for the purpose of collecting the fee.
r 
r communication 
Also, it must cost the University Paul Dankoski
r 
at least $3 per person in Flanner Hall
r 
Dear Editor: 
processing fees. Even if the April 23, 1990
r 
One of our goals next year is 
r 
to increase communication be­tween student government and 
Volunteers' efforts lift local 
the student body. We are plan­
f 
ning to take several steps in 
spirits and restore pride
order to accomplish this goal. The first is a campus-wide sur­
Dear Editor: 

the volunteers lifted the neigh­vey which you will find in your We want to extend our sin­borhood's spirits and restored 
mailbox. From these surveys, cere thanks to the Notre Dame some of its pride. The we will gain knowledge which and Saint Mary's students who Christmas in April volunteers will enable us to serve you bet­helped make Christmas in April showed how we can make a dif­ter. If student government is to a reality April 7. ference when we work together.be at all successful in this en­Because of their hard work, Thanks again for strengthen­deavor, your cooperation is enthusiasm and elbow grease, 
ing the quality of life that exists 
both necessary and appreci­59 West Washington neighbor­here in our community. We ated. Good luck on finals, and hood homeowners are enjoying truly are Alive with Pride. have a great summer. life a little bit more. Those stu­
dents, along with volunteers 
Mayor Joseph Kernan 

Rob Pasin from the community, the skilled 
Christopher Murphy

Student Body President trade unions and the City of 
Rev. David Tyson

South Bend, completed over 
Larry Harding

Fred Tombar $750,000 worth of repairs to 
Honorary Co-Chairmen 

Student Body Vice President ensure safe, decent housing for 
Christmas in April

April 23, 1990 those homeowners. We believe 
April 20, 1990 

DOONESBURY QUOTE OF THE DAY 

t./1<& 50Jft­ru6£Ttr 
fOR. YOU. IM A/..50, 7HIN65THING 70 
JU~HAVEN'T
f)!?JNI<,JatW/t~ NOTQUIT8A7 
Htl.PU93A5 /3lZN TH&-54.41&
I HAVE 5{Ytff3­ICEI? lEA ... 
I !.001< ... 5/Nt:&TH& e.AI<THQLI41<&.
\ 
I 
'Seeing is believing, but feeling in God's naked truth.' 
Ruth Geoghegan 
.------------------------­
Accent
Thursday, April 26, 1990 page 11 
~------~----------~----~-­
ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Team 
Having fun while learning hoW to dance 
DAN GENOVESE his hand, she took it, and they Club, open to both undergradu­Teachers of Dancing, has been accent writer danced. ates and graduates, meets once dancing for twelve years. Whether it be the waltz, cha­a week to learn the techniques Among her many credits is her 
T 
lw coupln gaznd at naeh eha. or tango, you will find the and grace of ballroom dancing, representation of the United otlwr through the dim members of the Notre Dame/ to meet people, and, most im­States in the 1985 World light. And though thnrn Saint Mary's Ballroom Dance portantly, to have fun. And in­Championship. The modern wnrP otlwr eoupli~s out on thn Tnam dandng it. The Ballroom deed, fun is what they have, events were held in Dortmund, lloor, it snnnwd that thny worn Dance Team came into being thanks to the knowledge and Germany, and the Latin events alorw. A seant fnw fent two-and-a-half years ago as an experience of their instructor, in Oslo, Norway. After retiring SPJ>aratnd tlw two as they offshoot of the popular Lon1tta i\. Spencer. from competition, she turned waiti'CI for tlw musie to bngin. Ballroom Dance Club which Loretta Spencer, a fellow of fully to teaching. Her teaching 
Whnn it finally did, he offered originated four years ago. The the Imperial Society of career began in Chicago, but for the past three years, she has taught the Club. Shortly after starting with the Club at Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's, she formed the Dance Team. Since then the team has competed in England and Orlando, Fla. They have also traveled around the Midwest. Students may have seen them compete at Notre and Carol Mindock placed third Dame last December. in the quickstep; Hamzi 
This past weekend the team Bualuan and Mary Sande traveled to Ohio State in placed third in the fox-trot; Columbus, Ohio, to participate Julie Bollerud and a rm~mber of in the 1990 Spring Classic. the Ohio State team placed first Teams from Ohio State, in the waltz; Mary Sande and a Carnegie Mellon, the University member of the Kentueky team of Illinois, and the University of took third in the hustle; Hamzi Kentucky rounded out the com­Bualuan and Kathlonn De La petition. They all literally Fuente took lirst in the clm-dm; danced the night away as the and Dan Genovese and Julin competition lasted from eleven Bollerud placed second in thn in the morning to twelve mid­two-step. night. Not only does the team 
The competition was divided eompete, but it also gives exhi­into two parts: individual and bitions. On April 28, the tPam team competition. In the team will travel to Holland, Miehigan match, each couple receives a for an exhibition, and on April score for the particular dance 29, the team returns to South they perform, such as the waltz, Bend to participate in the quickstep, cha-cha, jive, fox­charity show "A Spring trot, tango, rumba, or mambo. Celebration," sponsored by the The team with the highest total Children's Dispensary and score wins. The competition University Park Mall in was tight and the results close: ()'Laughlin Auditorium at 2 the ND/SMC Team placed third, p.m. close on the heels of Illinois In tho next week, look for (first) and Ohio State (second). members of the dub selling In the individual competition, ranle tiekets in the dining halls: the aforementioned dances the big prize is a en playN. For were held with the inclusion of those interested in joining the the samba, two-step. and Club next year, or simply hustle. And much to everyone's having a good time, tlwm will delight. there was a lambada be a free introductory dance contest! class held from 7 to 9 p.m. on 
May 3 at Theodore's. No part­The ND/SMC Team made its ner or experience is needed, presence felt: Ramzi Bualuan and all are welcome. 
'Fantasticks' reveals true meaning of love 



MAGGIE MACDONALD another kind -the chemistry of students/seniors and $5 regular and sunlight exposes the rw•~d accent writer a couple in the playful admission. to base lov1~ in reality. Snptembnr of life in the musical By moonlight, the musieal cel­The Notn~ Dame Student 
"Try to rnnwmber the kind of "Fantasticks." ebrates youth's fascination with Players have undertaken tlw September... " Forget love and the world. These project of producing this show September! Look around you This musical, running this faseinations are portrayed as which daims a 30-year run right now at the budding spring weekend, April 26-28, at 7:30 special mysteries and plans of OfT-Broadway, the longest-run­whirh stirs the sense of ro­p.m. in Washington Hall. youth to do more than the ning musical in tho world. mance. tlw physical senses and reworks elements of Homeo and mundane. But this daring, re­Sponsored by SUB. the Players 
thn sensuality in youth. Drop Juliet and the Pyramus-Thisby belling and reveling attitude are the people who brought you your chemistry homework and myth. Tickets are on sale at toward life breaks down by Simon last year and hope to take a look at a chemistry of LaFortune: $3 for morning. The wall crumbles build a tradition of musical 
theatre at Notre Dame. 
Directed by Amy Costantini. Co-produced by .lefT McGarrity and Lisa McMahon. tlw show features a cast of charming vo­cal talent including Fran Feeley and Lou LaGrange as the comic fathers of the lovors, olayed by Paul Salvatoriello and Katie Blakey. But if the en­chanting musie of harpist Mary Braniek doesn't stir some of the season's romance inside you, nothing eould. 
So don't forget! Give the books and yourself a break and ­go out for a romantic evening and see "The Fantastics" this 
Above: Lou Lagrange and Paul Salvatoriello star in "Fantasticks," the longest running Off-Broadway musical. weekend, beginning tonight and Left : Along with Salvatoriello, Sarah Esterline will also be featured in this weekend's presentation. ending Saturday at 7:30p.m. in Washington Hall. 
-~ 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, April 26, 1990 

NOTICES TYPING term papers/reports/letter/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277­5134 Cathy. UPS ON CAMPUS  LOST-BLACK S100EF KODAK CAMERA ON SATURDAY AT HOGSTOCK. CALL KATH ANNE 283-4044. WANTED NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE any weekend-ext 1938  NEAR ND: Clean and comfortable furn.·apts: 755 South Bend Ave•efficiency-$225;•1 bdrm-$265 dep.,references 616-483-9572 Party Off Campus Furn. 4 bdrm. Sand V-ball court, washer/ dryer, safe. Bruce : 234-3831 or 288-5653  $$$ If you are selling GRAD TIX, call me first. MONEY NO OBJECT!!! Harry x2263 I need graduation tickets for huge  JOY HARRIS-Because its your birthday, we challenge you to the make-out game .... Tonight at Bridget's!!!! love, KLD,REM, and one of the lucky Navarre boys CLASSOF90  SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER & PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR HOUSING/ROOMMATE "INFORMATION EXCHANGE" Call SAFEWALK for an escort anywhere on campus. 7:30pm-1:30am Sun-Th 7:30 pm-2:00am Fri-Sat Summer Vacation!  
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER  family. Please call Jeanne at 2600.  Career & Placement Thank You  
239-6174 -LAFORTUNE WE TAPE I WE LABEL! WE SHIP! $100 FREE INSURANCE  10 Speed bike.272-6306 WANTED!!!:  NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD SAFE AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF  NEED 2 GRAD. TICKETS CALL CHRIS 289-9710 $$$  lunch, Monday 12:00-2:00 at Alumni/Senior Club No job? Come anyway; bring a resume and send it off with a helium balloon.  Anyone in need of a roommate in Chicago for the summer call Bridget x 2770  
Discounts Available WORDPROCESSING 272-1837 $$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS!  Loft/bookshelves/couch/chair-I've been bumming off people for too long and now that I'll be in a single I need your help. If you have any of the above items and are willing to sell them call Chrissy x4026 THANKS!  ND 2773097 3-4 bedroom house with 2 full baths, washer/dryer & garage. Located safely across the street from campus. Ph. 234-7650  HELP --NEED 4-5 GRAD. TIX !!! WILL PAY$$ CALL JOHN AT x1684 GRADUATION TIXS, I NEED  SUMMER IS A GREAT TIME FOR THE BEACH, CHICAGO, CONCERTS AND ART FAIRS. ATIRACTIVE BACHELOR, MICHIGAN CITY BUSINESS PROFESSIONAL WANTS TO MEET INTELLIGENT AND  HEY RICH!!!!!I!!! Phish was great!!!!!! SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS  
PANDORA'S BOOKS Corner of ND ave and Howard 233-2342 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US! MAIL BOXES ETC.  ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries.  AVAILABLE JUNE OR AUGUST, 4 BEDROOM HOUSE, COMPLETELY FURNISHED. SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL234­9364. SINGLE STUDIO APT. AT TURTLE CREEK FOR SUMMER. UTILITIES INCLUDED. 284-5475  THEM! BIG BUCKS! CALL MELEAH AT X4229 HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED 1 OR 2 GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY CASH. MICHELLE 2677 ' PERSONALS  ATIRACTIVE NOTRE DAME OR ST. MARY'S CO-ED OR GRAD STUDENT WHO LIKES TO HAVE FUN. I'M WHITE, 33 YEARS OLD AND 5'10, 185 LBS. SEND NOTE, PHOTO AND PHONE TO: J.GRAHAM 2 DEVONSHIRE CT. MICHIGAN CITY, IN 46360  Are you planning on volunteering next year? Please sign up at the Senior Class Office in Lafortune or at the C.S.C. to participate in the ceremony during graduation weekend.  
UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. On S.R. 23, just past Ironwood. 277-6245 LOST/FOUND LOST: GOLD SEIKO WATCH WITH BLACK STRAP SOMEWHERE BETWEEN B1 PARKING LOT & LAFORTUNE.  $5,000+/month! Over 8,000 openings. Free transportation! Room & Board! No experience necessary. MALE or FEMALE. Send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box 84008, Seattle, WA 98124­Satisfaction Guaranteed. ATIENTION: Excellent Income for Home Assembly Work. Info. Call 504-646-1700 DEPT. P5868.  LEAVE MESSAGE. FOR SALE I • DO YOU NEED A FLIGHT TO PROV. R.I.?? monday, may 22, best offer! call Kris x2735 APPLE liE COMPUTER W/ EXTENDED MEMORY, MONITOR, FAN, DISK DRIVE,  • START YOUR NEW CAREER WITH A NEW CAR! We have special financing for employed graduates. Call: Gary Erb At: Gates Toyota 237-4999 GOING HOME; !?!?!? For great rental van rates call Tim  BRIDGET'S BRIDGET'S BOAT HOUSE BLUES BAND LIVE!! Saturday April 28, 1990 9:30P.M. AT BRIDGET McGUIRES  DEADLINE IS MAY 1. Today is your chance to see Jeanne Schuster take on last year's Jello wrestling champion, Molly McBride. Come to the library green at SMC to see them in action!!!!!!!!! JUBA  
LOST ON WEDNESDAY, 4/18. CALL FATMATA 239-5243 BEFORE 5 PM OR 288-0440 AFTER6 PM. LOST AT SENIOR FORMAL: faux pearl bracelet, 3 strands thick ...it belonged to my Grandmother and has GREAT sentimental value. PLEASE CALL LAURA #2533  T-SHIRT: "Sex Kills ... Live Forever." $$$$$. Please Call: Deanne at 287-9043. PURDUE STUDENT LOOKING FOR 2-3 ROOMMATES FOR SUMMER. CALL JOE (317)743-5918 'MAKE EVERY DAY*  PROGRAMS, GAMES, & PRINTER FOR SALE. ALL FOR ONLY $700 CALL AMY 239-7308. AIR TICKET CHICAGO-DENVER. LV. MAY 2, RET. MAY 12. 239-7385 OR 272-6968. ****** FOR SALE"'*********  at x1143 ASAP. LET US HELP YOU! SHIPPING SERVICES DAILY $100 FREE INSURANCE THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP!  SUE HATCH, Congratulations on being caller #1 0! I knew you could do it! Love, Annie P.S. Was this ad worth the 4­year wait?!?  YOU'RE 19, BUT YOU STILL AIN'T BIG (AND YOUR KNEES DONT WORK) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! --BALDI & 3B DICKS P.S. I WANT A NEW BUBBLE MACHINE.  
LOST: Pair of Ray-Ban Sunglasses, somewhere in God Quad Saturday evening. REWARD Call Lizi X-2519. LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORTH QUAD BY NDH. REWARD. SEAN 2073  *EARTH DAY* SUMMER CAMPAIGNS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT EARN $2500-$3500 Help pass the Clean Air Act, tighten pesticide controls & promote  A couch with a pull out bed Best Offer takes couch!l!!l! Call Beth, Sara or Natasha at X2722 Refrigerator 4cu It, Jay x 1856  Discounts available SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER & PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR HOUSING/ROOMMATE "INFORMATION/EXCHANGE" louii-Give the frog back  Happy 19th Birthday AIMEE LUCAS There, are you happy now? Love, Your future roomies Wish AIMEE LUCAS a happy 19th birthday. Call x4208.  ..KENTUCKY DERBY .. ROAD RALL Y/ND PARTY ACCOMODATION/RIDERS CALL JOE/CHRIS 287-8575  
LOST: Black and gold Seiko dress watch on the second floor of the library. Please call Pat x2479 or give to library security at the front desk. SENIOR FORMAL: Are those pictures you developed not yours? Maybe you or your date picked up the wrong camera by accident on SAT night. Please call #1765. THANKS I'm lost!!! Please help me, my name is Sundance. I'm a white 6" Teddy Bear with black eyes and grey suede feet bottoms. Lost 4-8­90 in red east parking lot at ND. My family misses me very much. My safe return would be greatly appreciated. Reward!I Call collect, Tom or Gloria at 317-247-1096  omprehensive recycling Available In 18 states & D.C. Call Kate toll-free: 1-800-75-EARTH FOR RENT NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., efficiency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep., references. 616-483-9572. 3 BEDROOM-GARAGE 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS $525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT 232-3616. Turtle Creek Apt furnished/summer Matt x3549  Off-Campus Furnit., Dorm Refridg. & Carpet 4 a Single 271-5651 Enduro Motorcycle: '87 Suzuki SP125cc. Mint Condition. Call Jim@ 277-9198 1986 VW GOLF, 4-DR HATCHBACK, AIR, AM/FM CASSETIE, 55,000 MI., AVAIL MAY 19. $4000. 239-7385 OR 272-6968. FOR SALE: 1988 NISSAN PULSAR SE, 3-DOOR SPORTS COUP, 5-SPEED, AIR, CASSETIE STEREO, EXCELLENT CONDITION, LEAVING COUNTRY, MUST SELL, $8600. CALL 282-2140. LOVELY HOME-Near ND, 3+br,  Looking For Something to Do Before De La Soul? THE ANTI-TOSTAL CONCERT!!!!! 3:00-ish P.M. Friday April27, 1990 Featuring: TARTAR GUN FLESH BURRITO CRANKSHAFT THE GOATEES (and maybe one or two others) ANTI-TOSTAL!!!!! In front of Stanford Hall HARDCORE.FUNK.REGGAE ROCK&ROLL.GODHEAD ANTI-TOSTAL!!!!! Kathryn, For a mistake I made;  hiag Do you like to read ? Bring your books to CLUB 23 ! 'MO' SENIORS Can you afford to lose $1 ,000? Take advantage of your student discount on an IBM PS/2 BEFORE you graduate and spring into savings. JUST DO IT! Call an IBM student rep today! 237-3680, -3790, -3794 ADOPTION. We are a childless, educated, secure, happily married, white Christian couple. Give your  'Buy any 12' Italian Su6 witfi One Litre S vft 'Drink._ anti receive $1.00 off ca[[ 277-3324  
LOST: Brown leather jacket. 0/C at 524 Cresent Street. Friday 4/20. Reward if found. Mike x4280. LOST: Brown leather jacket. 0/C at 524 Cresent Street. Friday 4/20. Reward if found. Mikex4280. LOST-VIVITAR CAMERA ON THURS., 4/19 AT BRIDGET'S OR MCCORMICKS-if found please call Shannon @ 284-5229  ROOMMATE NEEDED. Furnished room in nice, quiet house near campus. Considerate, mature, non-smoker a must. Available mid­May. Summer $175/mo. Avail for Fall/Spring $250/mo. Call 232­9952. Thanks. SUBLETIING TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, FURNISHED. TOM 273-0302 New 2 Bdrm .. 2 Bath Condo.  appraised at $69,900, many xtras, h 2879341' w 2395080 $$PIONEER VSX3300 receiver­amp,6 mnths new.Cost $315 will sell at $265:Sean@2011 TICKETS I NEED GRAD TKTS $$DAVE: P. 3270 I NEED GRAD TIX  For fooling myself earlier this semester; For all the pain I caused you; For all the hurt; I just want to say I'm sorry. For your smile; For your eyes; For your whole self; Especially for the hugs, the tears and the laughs; For enjoying each other; For dreaming with me; For caring so much; For being my best friend again;  baby a fantastic future. Let us adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­974-8227. SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US!!I Mail Boxes Etc. We're ON CAMPUS 5/5 to 5/12, In La Fortune (Dooley Room)! UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 277-6245 Anyone that has a station wagon or a truck please call us. We are six fun and entertaining women. We need to move a couch to southern  1'ree tJJeCivery coupon ezyires: 4-29-90 &.--------------~''THE IRONY IS, RARELY DO THESE TWO PEOPLE HOOK UP. THEY JUST WANDER ABOUT AIMLESSLY...." from me to you, babe.  
_..  Available for 1990-1991.  will pay BIG $$$  I just want to say so dearly­ Michigan. If you want, you can join  
LOST --RAY BAN SUNGLASSES ­-Black wire-rims, left on a PA speaker at Earthday during the mind-shattering mega-jam of Superfreak. Call Mike x1464. LOST: A Canon Sprint camera at Senior Formal. Please call Kay at 277-8813. Thanks! PLEASE!! I LOST MY COMPUTER  Walk to campus. Call Michelle at x4981. HOUSEMATES NEEDED: Area Iris, an experiment in cooperative living, has one or two openings for this summer and/or this fall. If you are open minded and interested in inexpensive community living close to campus, please call us at  eves 283-3536 NEED GRAD TICKET CALL CHUCK X 3302 Attention please. I need two grad tix bad honest, I am willing to pay big bucks for them. ~!~~~';.~~~l.?reg at 3114  llove you. -George Dear Robbie, (alias CHUCK) HAPPY 21st!!! I had my doubts but you finally made it! The store was out of Bonnie Bell so you'll have to settle for Ouzo! You're a great friend ... Loveya, Pandora  us and we can make a day of it!!!!! Call 284-4390 (This is not a joke!!!!!) RIDE THE WINDY CITY SHUTILE TO CHICAGO THIS WEEKEND. TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. ONLY $10.00  LAST CALLI!! THE CONCLUDING CHAPTER OF A WEST COAST MUSICAUMEDICAL EXPERIMENT! IN THEIR FINAL ALIVE PERFORMANCE ON STAGE UNDER THE LIGHTS FOR THE LAST TIME FOREVER-­MAD HOD SHOCK' DR. JAM.THE  
DISKS -YES WITH ALL MY PAPERS-IN LAFORTUNE LAB OR SOMEWHERE IN THE HUDDLE.  232-3330.  To our little bundle of JOY, Thanks for our personal. That was pretty good for a freshman-­ PETE'S BREWING COMPANY LEADING CALIFORNIA BASED  YOUNG R.C.*MISS JONI MARTIN.THE DUKE OF JONES AND STEVE MAD DOG PETRILL  
- THEY WERE IN A RED CASE HOLDING 5 DISKS, SOME WITH THE NAME "MOON." I REALLY  2 BDRM, 2 BATH HOME ON N.D. AVE.2 BLKS TO CAMPUS.272­ NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ CALL #2059-JOHN  you got us. But if what you said is true, why are we so far ahead of you in points? Tonight's your  SPECIAL TV BREWER NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR MIDWEST REGION  CORVALLIS CALLING CORVALLIS CALLING  
REALLY NEED THESE!!! IF YOU'VE PICKED UP THE WRONG CASE, OR WHATEVER, PLEASE CALL MONICA AT 288-4335  6306 SUMMER RENTAL House or Rooms. Near campus.272-6306  WANTED-GRADUATION TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800­ chance to redeem yourself, so make us proud. Show the world what we've taught you. And remember, you have only three  MANAGER. SALARY 22-25K. BONUS, CAR, BENEFITS, ETC. RESPONSIBLE FOR MIDWEST SALES AND MARKETING  THIS SATURDAY UNCENSORED AT MCCORMICK'S 10-2.  
OR LEAVE IT AT THE  888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK  weeks left for the AUTOMATIC  PROGRAMS. BEVERAGE/SALES  
LAFORTUNE LAB. THANK YOU!!!!  2 BDRMS, TURTLE CR., SUBLET. 273-0601.  FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT AFTER 5 616-342-0729.  WIN!!! Happy 19th, Joyfull  EXPERIENCE PREFERRED. CALL MARK BOZZINI (415) 328-7383 .  see CLASS I page 1 4  


...... 
---~----------~~ 
Thursday, April 26, 1990 Scoreboard page 13 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Bookstore Basketball XIX 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division East Division 
w L Pel <E w L Pel Toronto 11 5 .688 Montreal 9 6 .600 Milwaukee 8 5 6t5 t 112 Pittsburgh 9 6 .600 Boston 7 7 .500 3 New York 8 7 .533 Baltimore 7 8 .467 3 112 Philadelphia 8 7 533 1 Detroit 7 9 .438 4 Chicago 6 8 .429 2 112 New York 5 7 .417 4 St. Louis 6 9 .400 3 Cleveland 5 8 .385 4 1/2 West Division West Division W L Pel 
w L Pel CE Cincinnati 10 2 .833 Oakland 11 3 786 los Angeles 9 6 .600 2 112 Chicago 6 5 .545 3112 San Diego 8 6 .571 3 Texas 8 7 .533 3112 Houston 5 9 .357 5 California 7 7 500 4 San Francisco 5 9 .357 6 Minnesota 7 9 438 5 Atlanta 2 tO .167 8 Kansas City 5 9 .357 6 Tuesday's Games Seattle 5 10 .333 6 112 New York 2, Atlanta 1 Wednesday's Games Philadelphia 6, Cincinnati 3 Milwaukee 1, Kansas City 0 Montreal 5, Houston 3 Seattle 5. New Vorl< 2 San Diego 13, Chicago 3 Calitornia 3, Boston 1 los Angeles 3, St. Louis 0 Toronto 5, Cleveland 3 Pittsburgh 4, San Francisco 1 Oakland 4, Baltimore 3, 12 inmngs Wednesday's Games Detroit 6. Minnesota 4 late Games Not Included Chicago 5. Texas 4 New York 8, Atlanta 5 Thursday's Games Cincinnati 12, Philadelphia 7 Cleveland (Candiotti 2·0) at Toronto (St1eb 3·0). Montreal 1. Houston 0 
12:35 p.m. Chicago at San Diego (n) 

Kansas C1ty (Gubicza 1·2) at Milwaukee (Knudson Pittsburgh at San Francisco (n) 0·0). 2:35p.m St. louis at Los Angeles (n) Seattle (Johnson H) at New York (Hawkins 0·1), Thursday's Games 7:30p.m. Pittsburgh (Smiley 1·2) at San Francisco (LaCoss Oakland (Moore 0·1) at Baltimore (Tibbs 0·1 ). 7:35 3·0), 3:35p.m. 
p.m 
Chicago (Harkey 1·1) at San Diego (Hurst 0·2). Cahlornia (Abbott 0·1) at Boston (Hetzel 0·1 ), 7:35 4:05p.m. TRANSACTIONS SPORTS CALENDAR 

p.m 
Houston (Clancy 0·0) at Atlanta (Lilliquist 0·2), 5:40 


Chicago (Perez 1·1) at Texas (Ryan 3·0), 8:35p.m. p.m. Only games scheduled St. Louis (Deleon 1·0) at Los Angeles (Belcher 1· 
BASEBALL Thunaday, Aprll26 
American League No sports scheduled Lacrosse vs. OHIO STATE. 4 p.m. CLEVELAND INDIANs-Requested irrevocable
Friday's Games 1), 10:35 p.m. 
Track at Drake Relays and at Ball State InvitationalCalilorma at New York. 7:30 p m Only games scheduled waivers on Rafael Santana, shortstop, for the pur· Friday, April 27 Men's golf at Kepler InvitationalSeattle at Baltimore. 7:35p.m. Friday's Games pose ol giving him his unconditional release. 
Women's tennis vs. BUTLER, 3:30p.m. Women's golf at Lady Boilermaker Spring Classic, KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Placed Steve Track at Drake Relays West Lafayette, InOakland at Boston. 7:35p.m Montreal at Cincinnati, 7:35p.m. 
M1nnesota at Cleveland, 7:35 p m. Philadelphia at Atlanta, 7:40 p.m. 
Crawford, pitcher, on the 21-day disabled list. Men's golf at Kepler Invitational, Columbus. OhioMilwaukee at Detro1t. 7:35p.m New York at Houston. 8:35p.m. 
Purchased the contract of Jay Baller, pitcher, from 
Sunday, April 29Toronto at Chicago, 8·05 p.m Pittsburgh at San Diego, 10:05 p.m. 

Omaha of the American Association. Saturday, April 28 Baseball at Deloit (2), 12 p.m
Texas at Kansas City. 8:35p.m Chicago at Los Angeles. 10:35 p.m. 
MINNESOTA TWINS-Sent Mark Guthrie, Baseball at Detroit (2), 12 p.m. Men's golf at Kepler Invitational pitcher. to Portland of the Pacific Coast League. Men's tennis vs. MARQUETTE, 12 p.m. and Women's golf at Lady Boilermaker Spnng Classic SEATTLE MARINERS-Placed Scott DRAKE. 2p.m. Softball vs. MARQUETIE (2), 1 p.m. Bankhead, pitcher, on the 15-day disabled list 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL retroactive to April 16. Recalled Gene Harris, pitcher, from Calgary ol the Pacific Coast League. NHL PLAYOFFS Released Jerry Reed, pitcher. Activated Mickey Brantley, outfielder, from the 15-day disabled list St. Louis at San Francisco, 10:35 p.m. 
Men's Results lor Wednesday, Apr1125 C.J.'s Gals over Smooth, Swift and Sweaty by 
DIVISION FINALS Wednesday, April 25and optioned him to Calgary.
Stepan 1 11 Wednesday, April 18 Washington 4, NY. Rangers 3, OT. Washington
TEXAS RANGERS-Placed Craig McMurtry,
Adwork's over Fighting Kernels by 8 Fast Break over Breaking the Third B by 15 
St. Louis 4, Chicago 3 leads series 3·1 Semor Bar over Pittsburgh Is Weak by 10 Five Girls Who Just Do It win by lorteil 
pitcher. on irrevocable waivers. 
Edmonton 7, Los Angeles 0 Montreal 4, Boston 1, Boston leads series 3·tNational League
Soul Sonic Force over The Good, The Bad, The Murray's Madness over Grubs by 11 Thursday, April 19 Thui'9CI.ay, April26
NL-Piaced Bob Engel, umpire, on indefinite
Laundry by 7 We're Clueless over Five Countries in Search of N.Y. Rangers 7, Washington 3 St. Louis at Chicago, 8:35p.m.
leave of absence.
Malicious Prostitution over D1gger's NIT Express One Fertile Peninsula by 18 
Boston 1, Montreal 0 Friday, April 27
MONTREAL EXPOS-Placed Joe Hesketh,
by 3 Shoot To Kill over Smell ol a Female by 19 Friday, April 20 Wash1ngton at N.Y. Rangers, 7:30p.m. Stepan 2 Hey Loppo, What's That on Your Neck overT & Chicago 5, St. Louis 3 Montreal at Boston, 7:35p.m.
pitcher. on waivers for the purpose of g1ving him his unconditional release.
Sweet Scotty P & The Dwarfs over Cotton Club A by forfeit Saturday, April 28
Edmonton 6. Los Angeles 1
NEW YORK MET5-Purchased the contract ot
by 5 Chickens Have Lips over No Surrender by 10 Chicago at St. Louis. 8:35p.m.
Saturday, April 21
Chuck Carr. outfielder, from Jackson of the Texas
Night Hawk Will Never D1e over Air Check and 4 Dunks and a Dink over Rebels With A Cause Boston 5, Montreal 4, OT Sunday, April 29
League. Optioned Jeff Innis, pitcher, to Tidewater
Ground Support by 7 by 9 Washington 6, N.Y. Rangers 3 N.Y. Rangers at Washington, 7:30p.m .. if
of the International League.
Clockwork Orange over Nub1an Pharaohs over 5 Girls Who Like to Score With Their Feet over 
Sunday, April 22 necessaryBASKETBALL
Virgin Marys by 10 St. Louis 5, Chicago 4, Boston at Montreal. 7:05p.m., if necessary
Continental Basketball Association
C.J.'s Pub over Peach's Late N1ght All Stars by Heavy B and the Girls over 5 Sistahs Tired by 9 Edmonton 5, Los Angeles 4 Monday, April 30
SIOUX FALLS SKYFORCE-Announced the
2 Hoos1er Lawyers over Mary Shine by forfeit Monday, April 23 St. Louis at Chicago. 8:35p.m.. if necessary
resignation of Ron Ekker. head coach.
3 to Bounce and 2 For the Boards over
Stepan 5 Washington 7, N.Y. Rangers 1 Tuesday, May 1
FOOTBALL
Fastbreak over Flipper and the Undertoes by 6 Shepherd and Her Flock by 13 Boston 6, Montreal 3 Washington at N.Y Rangers. 7:30p.m .. if
National Football LeagueJust Chillln' over Beer. Broads and Bookstore. 2 Lethal Weapon over Windy City Wenches by t4 
Tuesday, April 24 necessary
NFL-Named Dr. John A. Lombardo steroids
Good Reasons to go to Notre Dame by 14 Chicago 3, St. Louis 2, series tied 2·2 Montreal at Boston, 7:35p.m., if necessary
advisor.
Remember It's Denver over All The President's Women's Schedule lor Thursday, Aprll26 
Edmonton 6, Los Angeles 5, OT, Edmonton Men by 10 SMCCourts N.Y. Rangers I 0 2 0-3
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Signed 
wins series 4·0 Shoot Or Get Off over Third and Short by 7 4:00 . Fast Break vs. We're Clueless Christopher Williams, nose tackle, and Brian Washington 0 2 1 1-4 .. Hutson, safety.
Stepan 6 4:00 · Untamed Lyons vs. Hoosier Lawyers First Period--1. New Vorl<, Mallette 2 (Gartner,
NEW YORK JET5-Signed James Moore. wide
Taquila White L1ghtmng over Lenny's Swollen 5:00 · Heavy Band the Girls vs. Lethal Weapon Nicholls). 10:4t. Pena1t1es-Moller. NY (elbowing). Otters by 14 5:00 · Shoot to Kill vs. C.J.'s Gals Boston 0 0-1 :58; Rouse. Was (tripping), 3:05; Mallette. NY
receiver. PHOENIX CARDINALS-Announced the re·
Expresso Pizza over Parad1se Jam by 7 Notre Dame Courts Montreal 1 0 3-4 (roughing), 6:38; Rouse, Was (holding), 6:38; Gaucho's over Sague by 4 5:30. Hey Loppo, What's That on Your Neck vs. First Period-1, Montreal. Carbonneau 1 (Keane. Erixon, NY (roughing), 8:41; Hunter, Was
lirement of Earl Ferrell, fullback. PITTSBURGH STEELERS-Signed Pete
Rubber Cement II over Multiple Scoregasms by Chickens With Lipps Walter), 11:16. Penalties-Skrudland, Mon (roughing), 8:41; Druce, Was (high-sticking), 8:41;
Rutter. punter; Kimble Anders, running back; With Their Feet and One Under 4'8" Desjardins. Mon (cross-checking), 12:25; Ludwig, (cross-checking), 17:06. 
5:30 · Metamuci\s vs. 4 Girls Who Like To Score (elbowing), 7:20; Wesley, Bos (high-sticking), 7:43; Mallette, NY (high-sticking), 12:24: Gartner. NY 
Donald Evans. defensive end; Robert Gordon, wide receiver; cornerback Adrian Jones, corner­
Woman's ResuHslor Wednesday, Aprll25 6:30 · 5 Girls Who Just Do It vs. 4 Dunks and a Mon (high-sticking), 12:50; Carter. Bos Second Period-2. Washington. Bergland 1 
back; Mike Ober. defensive tackle; and Michael
Metamuclis over Denial by 15 Dink (unsportsmanlike conduct), 14:56; Chelios. Mon (Sheehy, Tucker). t3:13. 3, Wash1ngton. Druce 10 
Pavlik, guard.
Untamed lyons over Slow Motion by 16 6:30 · Murray's Madness vs. 3 To Bounce and 2 (charging), 17:33. (Hunter, Stevens), 19:13 (pp). Penanies­

For the Boards 
We're Fighting For Your Life. 
t.
American Heart ft Association V 

The Unlverslt~ Libraries of Notre Dame c::)lebrate 
National Library Week April 22-28, 1990 
Special Library Line -239-6680 
Monday ~ Tbunday, 10:00 a.m. ~ 5:00 PM. April 23-26, 1990 
Make suggestions! Get answers! University Libraries' administrators will handle calls! 
Win $50 Database search Register at Hesburgh or any of the five branch database locations Six winners will be drawn 
University Libraries-check them out! 

Canadian Football League Second Period--2. Boston, Carter 4 Greschner, NY (holding), 3:29; Langway, Was BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Signed Don (B.Sweeney, Carpenter), 18:23. Penalties­(holding), 6:14; Mullen, NY (slashing), 7:11;Staats, guard, and Ron Washington, linebacker. 
Pedersen, Bos (roughing), 6:22; Corson, Mon Stevens, Was (kneeing), 7:11; Courtnall. Was HOCKEY (roughing), 6:22; Wesley, Bos (holding). 6:36; (high-sticking), 9:06; Kisio, NY (tripping), 10:38;National Hockey League 
Wesley, Bos (tripping), 9:48. Courtnall. Was (holding), 16:26; Nicholls. NY WINNIPEG JETS-Signed Fredrik 0\ausson. 
Third Period--3, Montreal. Lebeau t (Corson). (boarding), 18:05; Moiler. NY (hooking), 18:58. 
defenseman, to a multi-year contract. 
4:22. 4, Montreal, Lebeau 2 (Svoboda, Corson). Third Period--4. Washington. Druce 11 TRACK AND AELD 
11:51.5. Montreal, Carbonneau 2, 19:19 (en). (Hatcher. Courtnall). :56 (pp). 5, New Vorl<. 
THE ATHLETICS CONGRESS-Suspended Penalties-Burridge, Bos (holding), 7:28; Corson, Ogrodnick 6 (Patrick), 15:57 (pp). 6, New York. Larry Myricks, long jumper, for three months for 
Mon (cross-checking), 12:30. Nicholls 7 (Kisio, Ogrodnick). 18:48. Penalties­testing positive for a banned substance. 
Shots on goal-Boston 11·8·1 0-29. Montreal Druce, Was (hooking), 2:49; Hunter, Was COLLEGE 
11-10·15-36. (roughing), t0:33; Ridley, Was (hooking), 15:45 LOYOLA MARYMOUNT-Named Steve Stratos Power-play Opportunities-Boston 0 of 5; Overtime-7, Washington, Langway 1 (Leach,women's volleyball coach. 
Montreal 0 of 5. Miller), :34. Penalties-None. 
WESTERN STATE-Named Jay Helman head Goalies-Boston, Moog, 7·3 (35 shots-32 Shots on goai-N.Y. Rangers 6·14·12·1-33. 
basketball coach. 
saves). Montreal. Roy. 5·5 (29-28). Washington B·tt-5-1-25. A-17,929. Power-play Opportunities-N.Y. Rangers 1 of 8; Referee-Dan Marouelli. linesmen-Swede Washington 2 of 7. 
Knox, Randy Mitton. Goa\ies-N.Y. Rangers, Richter (24 shots-21 saves), Vanbiesbrouck (15:451hird, 0-0). Richter, 3-2 (15:57third, 1·0). Washington, Liut, 3·2 (33· 
r""'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'',..,......, ......, ........., 
~ Ship Home With Usll 1 
I ~ 
i IMAlL BOXES E IC:' 
......
~ I 
I On Campus ~ 
~ I
I May 5 May 12 ~ 
~ I
I Save $1.00 on UPS La Fortune ~ 
~ One Coupon/Package Dooley Room ! 
~  $100 Free Insurance  No Mall Traffic  '-!  
~  Boxes. Tubes & Tape  Phone 277-6245  ~  
I!  Convenient Location Less than a Mile from Campus on S.R. 23  ~ ~  
~  Just Past Ironwood. By the Subway  ~  

II'!! Open Sunday April 29 8t May 6 ii11
l,,,,,.._,,,..............., ........., ............, ..... 
·~-----~---~· -------ww 
page 14 The Observer Thursday, April 26, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Reebok Supershot contestants should report to the courts behind the Bookstore at 2:45 on Friday. 
The Hapkido Club meets Tues. at 7:30 and Thurs. at 8: 
p.m. in Rm. 219, Rockne. Learn Self-defense and stop wor­rying about walking alone. For more info, call x3597. 
Fisher Hall's "On the Grass Classic", two-person volley­ball tournament, will be held this weekend, April 28-29. Cost is ten dollars per team and all proceeds will go to Andre House, a shelter for the homeless in Phoenix, Ariz. Anyone wishing to enter the tournament should contact Tim Maloney at 283-1939 or stop by Room 140 in Fisher. Deadline for entry is Friday at 7 p.m. 
Women's Lacrosse practice will be held today and the rest of this week at 4:00 p.m. in front of Angela. If you can't make the game this Saturday call Jeff (234-9878). 
Women Lacrosse players remember to bring money for gas for all the drivers this past weekend. 
Free Coke Squeeze bottles will be given to the first 300 fans at Saturday's lacrosse match vs. Ohio State at 4 p.m. at Krause Stadium. In addition, there will be beach music
<­
and a halftime frisbee accuracy contest. 
Women's Varsity Cross Country and Track and Field. 
Beginning in the fall, women's track and field will be a varsity sport at Notre Dame. Any women interested in competing in track and/or cross country are asked to at­tend a brief meeting on Wednesday, May 2 at 4:00p.m. in 
NCAA looks to up studies 
OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (AP) -NCAA president Albert M. Witte said Wednesday that a consensus was growing among the organization's officials to limit the time demands sports place on student-athletes. 
"I think the consensus is to make the life of the athlete more like the life of the stu­dent," Witte said as the NCAA Council wrapped up its spring meeting. "So the quest is to find ways and means to do that." 
Witte said sports are becom­ing an "almost year-round ac­tivity" that leave students little time to study. 
"Time demands on students rarely received meaningful dis­cussion until this year," Witte said. But he said the issue was gaining momentum now. 
At its annual convention last year, the NCAA voted to reduce 
Class 
continued from page 12 
I need a ride home to the DC/Baltimore area after finals. The earliest I can leave is Wed. May 9. Will share expenses. Call Molly 284-4390 
.........•••••••••••••••BEST OF LUCK TO THE CAST OF THE FANTASTICKS: 
PAUL SALVATORIELLO KAlYBLAKEY JOHN MCKEE LOU LAGRANGE FRAN FEELEY 
JASON WINSLADE JEFF SIMERVILLE SARAH ESTERLINE 
TODAY THRU SATURDAY Washington Hall 7:30pm Tickets: LaFortune Info Desk 
MULLICK!!! Happy 22nd Birthday ---Arnie and Grieco 
I need a ride home to Florida after senior week. Will share expenses. Call Katy 284-5122. 
Jeff-eventually 
LOOKOUT! 
Have you voted for the Ugly Man on Campus? It's not too late. Here are the top 5 candidates: 
5. Dave "The Dancing Bear" Glenister 
4. Shawn Davis 
3. Mike "Goofball" Trisko 
2. "Party Marty" Demmings 
1. Harry "Paycho" Neidig 
the number of regular-season Division I basketball games from 28 to 25. He said the prospects were good for similar moves to be considered at the next convention in January. 
The 46-member council, a policy-making group for the NCAA, received reports with recommendations from confer­ence commissioners and special committees. 
Among the issues were re­structuring athletic divisions, reducing costs of college athlet­ics and reducing the time ath­letes are required to dedicate to their sports. 
Witte said the reports would be circulated among NCAA members and the council would meet again in August to en­dorse specific proposals for the organization's convention next year. 
PROFESSIONAL COUPLE DESIRES TO ADOPT BABY. WILL KEEP YOU INFORMED OF THE CHILD'S DEVELOPMENT IF YOU DESIRE. EXPENSES PAID. CALL 0-317-298-8548 OR ATIORNEY 0-317-882-9799 (ref#89-129). 
this is great 
NBA fines LA for benching stars 
NEW YORK (AP) -NBA deserve the best product and Commissioner David Stern used that the Lakers did not supply a baseball analogy Wednesday that. to defend his $25,000 fine of "We make an implicit the Los Angeles Lakers for fail­promise at our games. 'Playing ing to use a number of regulars today: Those healthy and able.' in their final regular season It is not hard and fast, but that game last Sunday at Portland. is our compact with the media 
"We have to call balls and and our fans." strikes," Stern said at a lun­With Magic Johnson, James cheon of the International Ra~ Worthy and Mychal Thompson dio and Television Society. "The on the bench, Portland defeated Lakers' action was clearly wide Los Angeles 130-88, the most of the plate." one-sided defeat in Laker his­
Stern said fans buying tickets tory. The game did not affect 

the final standings or playoff situation of either team. Would Stern repeat the pun­ishment? 
"This one was wide of the plate," he said. "We'll wait until the next one." 
Baseball Commissioner Fay Vincent, seated next to Stern at the luncheon, endorsed his col­league's disciplinary action. "We believe strongly that teams must make significant effort," he said. "It's a difficult line to draw." 
Bird psyched for playoffs against Knicks 
BOSTON (AP) -Larry Bird off opener against the New gets pumped up at playoff time. York Knicks. This year, he says, he's even "There's no question" that more excited because he was his role as a playoff spectator a sidelined for Boston's entire year ago increases his eager­winless 1989 postseason ness this year, Bird said after ordeal. practice Wednesday. ''I'm ex­
The anticipation is greater cited. very excited. still because the Celtics are in "Sitting out last year was a the midst of their best stretch big disappointment, but I feel of basketball this season head­I'm ready. I feel real good right ing into Thursday night's play-now. I had a couple of days off 
and, health-wise, I'm doing pretty good." 
An abscess that forced Bird out of the last three regular­season games isn't expected to bother him. And, in marked contrast to last year's playoffs, when Robert Parish, Dennis Johnson, Jim Paxson, Kevin Gamble and Bird all were ail­ing, all 12 Celtics are healthy. 
The Knicks hope to)Je. 

MUSICIANS T~NOTE! 
f F F IB U 6J ~ :II 
SAINT MARY 1S COLLEGE 
MUSIC GROUP LEADERS NEEDED 
for 

SUNDAY MASSES 1990-91 Academic Year 
Opening for pianists, guitarists, strong vocalists or flutists 
PAID POSITION THROUGH FINANCIAL AID 
Interested persons should contact Sister Betty Smoyer, S.N.D. Campus Ministry 160 Regina Hall Phone 284-5392 
NOTICE TO GRADUATES 
As part of the graduation process, federal regulations require all students who have borrowed from the Stafford Loan Program (formerly Guaranteed Student Loan) and the Supplemental Loan for Students (SLS) to attend an exit interview before leaving the University. The exit interview will review your rights and responsibilities for repaying your loan(s), deferment options and loan con>olidation benefits. 
~or your convenience, we have scheduled ten exit interview sessions. Please plan on attending one. 
Tuesday, April 24th 2:00-2:30 P.M. LaFortune 2:45-3:15 P.M. Notre Dame Room 3:30-4:00 P.M. 
Wednesday, April 25th 7:00-7:30 P.M. LaFortune 7:45-8:15 P.M. Notre Dame Room 8:30-9:00 P.M. 
Thursday, April 26th 6:30-7:00 P.M. LaFortune 7:15-7:45 P.M. Notre Dame Room 8:00-8:30 P.M. 8:45-9:15 P.M. 
ro prepare tor the exit interview it will be necessary to know the name of your lender(s) and the total amount of your Stafford and SLS borrowing while at Notre Dame. If you need assistance gathering this information, contact the Financial Aid Office. Please allow one day for processing. 

Thursday, April 26, 1990 The Observer 
Capitols go up 3-1 with OT victory 
I.ANDOVEH. Md. (AP) -Hod 
l.angway's first goal of the sea-
d . . 
son a.,4 secon s mto overtime Wndncsday night gave Washington a 4-3 victory over 
N, y k ,. ", . , d
till• , LW ~lr. 1,annLrS cl.ll 
puslwd th1~ Capitals to thP. brmk 
of tlwir f'irst-nver Patrick 
Division till<~. 
l.angway scored on a wrist 
shot from tlw left cirde to give 
Washington a :i-1 lmtd in the 
I. .
Imst-o -sevnn s1~nes. 1.angway worked the puck in and beat 
goalie Mike Hichter, who was 
scremwd by teammate Handy 
Mollnr. 
The Hangers trailed :i-1 late 
in tlw third period. but .John 
Ogrod nick seor<~d a power play 
goal with 4:0:{ left and Bernie 
Nicholls forced the overtime by 
lwating Washington goalie 
Mikn l.iut on the stick side with 
I: 12 rmnaining. 
Tho snrins resunws with 
(;;mw 5 at Nnw York's Madison 
Squar<~ (;ardnn on Friday night. 
Bnforn Nnw York's late flurry. it appeared that John Druce would once again be the Capitals' hero. Druce scored his I Oth and 11th goals of the playoffs -tops in the Stanley Cup tournament -within a 
I03-second span to give Washington a two-goal cushion early in the final period. Druce's first goal. with the Capitals enjoying a two-man advantage, gave Washington a 2-1 lead with 47 seconds left in tlw second period. llis second tally, 5h seconds into the final p<~riod, gave the Capitals a two­adva 

Loan trade-In hot 11ne number 
> Bu.t Ne~ y~rk, which won the tl_atltnbcktDhiVISiont regul~rS-st':mslon
1 e u as no won a , an ey
C . f t b k
1940
bur SJ~cc_ 't . th<!udg 1t ~ch
1
e ore f~tlsmg . s. Irh s raig t 
game a er wmnmg t e opener 
3. Aft d" fi . . 
er sp~m ~ng t1w .1rst, ~art of th_e season 1~ the m~nor~ an~ sconn.g onl: eight goal~ Ill ~·> rc.g~l~r-se,tson ~a~~s With ~asf~mgtotn. !)r,uct. has a goad! 
7_
111 1ve s rmg 1t games an 
. th, 1 . 
111 1
seven c ast t Iree. ~)ruce got the .go-a.head goal ~1 \'; N.ewthYork ~~~~~oils Sand 
0 111 0 
, er pena Y ox. · cott St<:vens fl~mte?. a. sh~t toward. the net th:~t ~cts ,tiP,P':d .~Y !~ale lluntnr oil Hichtcr s <.hest. ttnd Druce sl~pped the rebound out of the .mr and past the goal-tn!~der m.to the net. . . 
1hen, 111 the .openmg mmu~e of the final penod, I>.ruce redI­~ected a shot by Kevm_ 11.atcher 
1
mto th~~ net to ~ake It ·~-· It ":as hi~ ~layol~-best fourth game-~I~mng goal. 
After 1roy :-'aiiP:tte .gav~ New Y.ork a ~ -O lead ~Ith a fir~t-pe_­n?d ~,~mi. Washm?ton twd It WI.th lun Ber~land ~ first-ever 
13·13
playoff go.al at of the second penod. Canadiens 4, Bruins 1 
MONTHEAL Hookie Stephan Lebeau scored two goals in the third period of his first NIIL playoff game to keep 
the Montreal Canadiens' slim Stanley Cup hopes alive with a 4-1 victory over the Boston Bruins on Wfldnesday night. 

------------------~
"TWO THUMBS UP!" 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY 7:30,9:45 
It's a CURTAIN CALL EKEND at 
~dou5' ;~(/) 
0 
NIGHTCLUB 
I 
'• B{J .
2~ ~-· \ ;-.
~~I ·.~.-~b 
;t ?.. •• ­
g8 I D E L A S 0 U .. L 
o 9 ""' __, .-fl ATl<.i:~E. C"-....E~ O,L;­
*~~*~******* 
~ _:_ ~~:r~t ~~!Yu® rt 
-Je//o Wr,o #l' -"" • 
M E 4-7 p.rn. 
l r. . UNAGE!!! 
SERlOUS'f 
@ sMCnic 
, ""8"' mg 4:30-6:30 m 
One way to get sti ky p
d • , C and Wet-'"TUilENT UNION BOARD 
;;L~~s not against DuLac. 
1 rary Green Big Wheel500 5:00-5:30 p.m~el!c f/~"ls/,~eJ'L' 8M B' W <ic· .. ,, l>.h..
an your tg heels..(provided)! 11i'.Y ·. ·.,,_
Mr. E. 4-7 p.m. @ Library Circle (SMC)
SERIOUS TUNAGE!!! @ SMCnic 
b 
/) ~~~· 
ister 4:30-6:30p.m·Tw lf around ....'11. 
wrap yourse @ LibrafY Green Simon Says 5:30 p.m. Just do what they say! @ Library Green 
Egg Toss 5:45p.m. Movie Sp.m. Crack yourself up!! Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure @Library Green @ Carroll (SMC) 
The Canadiens avoided their first four-game playoff sweep 
. d . d r·f h 
smce 1952 an 1orce a 1 t game in their Adams Division final series, which Boston leads 
.,_1
a · . . 
Lebeau, 22, playmg 111 place of injured scoring star Stephane Hicher. made his first 
playoff game spectacular with a hand in several scoring chances until he scored at 4:22 
r:: 1 I' th fi 1 · d t
and 11 :;, o e ma peno o break a 1-1 tie. 
Lebeau, the most valuable player in the American llockey League last season, had had 15 
goals in 57 NI-IL games this season. lie started and finished the first play when he got the puck to Shayne Corson in fron( then tipped in the rebound of Corson's weak backhand shot. 
Later in the period, Lebeau picked up a loose puck behind the Boston net and jammed it in the side with Corson fallen in the crease. 
Guy Carbonneau also got his first of the playoffs -one in the first and an empty net goal with 41 soconds remaining. 
Montreal will now attempt to become only the third team in league history -Toronto in 
1942 and the New York 
Islanders in 1975 were the others -to rebound from a 3­0 series deficit. 
John Carter had Boston's goal late in the second period. 
Montreal outshot Boston 36­29. 
page 15 

• AP Photo 
With a goal 34 seconds into overtime, the Washington Capitols took a 3-1 lead in their Stanley Cup series with the New York Rangers. 
Belles track finishes fourth 
f d t
as our new recor S are se 
Special to the Observer 
The St. Mary's track team placed fourth in the NAJA Dis­trict 21 Championships last weekend. The squad scored 58 points and set four records. 
Lynn Pfeffer won the javelin with a record toss of 120' 5". In addition, Leslie Tedrow won the 200-yard dash with a time of 26.89. 
'liiJ/r ~6> ;,.
sue . @l... t/Je b. <To 
. file 4.30­
Th1s is n:__ ·. 6:3op.m 
(ii) L"b ""l.ller kids I . 
-I :rary G . 
r~n 
Bike ll 
4& ace 5 
12 rniJ :4sp.rn
@LeA~ e.race · 
'"{an s. s Circle (Sftvtc) 

In relay action, tho Belles set records in two separate races. The sprint medley team of Kerry Meehan, Lianne Steven­son, Mary Cassidy and Maggie Daday finished with a time of 
2.17. The 1600 rnlay's time of 
4:12:13 was good for a record as well. The team eonsisted of Tedrow. Ilcidi l'innil'f, Beth Seymour, and Chnryl Fortunak. 
llfi@f£~E)£ 
'h~ C 
'Ill. a-... 
@ "'olle• ~~ 
~(! of fo/' ~J' r. Vet<'~ .Yoll '-o~ 
ib~'»--u'Ur ol'h 
"'Y O.r. ·~' <1.:3. 
ee... 0-(i.., 
., ·JO 
P.~ 


page 16 Tile Observer 
Fencers extol honors in-year-end banquet 
By CHRIS ALLIO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing team reflected back on the past sea­son and honored their finest last night at the year's annual banquet. 
Though they finished third overall as a team in the NCAA's last March, the Irish fencers have quite a bit to be proud of. 
Senior Joel Clark, the foil captain for the past two years, was the recipient of the Scholar-Athlete Award pre­sented by the St. Joseph's Valley Club, as well as the Most Valuable Player award for the foil squad. Senior captain Anne Barreda was the female winner of the former award. 
"Being a part of the Notre Dame fencing team for four years has been one of the most rewarding experiences of my life," said Clark. 'Til never re­gret my decision to come here." 
Sophomore Jubba Beshin and Heidi Piper were recognized for their outstanding performances this year as honorees of the Monogram Club's most valu­able players. 
Senior Kristin Kralicek was noted as the women's foil MVP in addition to receiving the Dit Langford Award, given to the 
Softball 
continued from page 20 
bats snap their 13-game win­ning streak. Freshman Erinn Kelly (0-1) went the distance on the mound for Notre Dame giv­ing up eight hits, walking four, and fanning four. The Irish, trying to put yesterday's loss behind them, are hoping to con­tinue their winning ways Saturday at 4 p.m. against St. Mary's and against Marquette at 1 p.m. s.nrlay. 
·.# • 
... 
No gain.No pain. 
Mainta1mng a moderate we1ght may reduce your nsk ol heart attack 

&•aAmerican HeartV Association 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"Arr !fOil OK to dril•r·~· "Whatx afrw bee1-s~· 
"Did !fOil hat•e too 11111ch to clriukl" "1"111 JW1.1i•ctly.flue." 
'"Are !fOil ;, Wl!f.~hape to riril'rol'" "/"t•e lll't'l'l'.fio/1 lleffe1:" · · 

fencer annually who best demonstrates a complete team commitment. 
Sabre captain Chris Baguer was chosen by his peers as that weapon's MVP, while Jubba Beshin was presented with the award for epee. 
"Jubba did something this year that I will always remem­ber," said assistant coach Mike Marx. "On the last day of NCAA's, even though the team's hopes of winning the title had be eliminated, Jubba still went out and fenced his heart out. He was determined to win the individual title. And that's just what he did. There's something to be learned from overcoming an obstacle like that." 
The John Criquilier Award for best scholar-athlete went to se­nior foilist Colin Gumbs, while sabreman Danny Yu received the Dan Mulligan award. 
The Walter Langford Award, which honors the great Notre Dame fencing coach, was pre­sented to <>enior Mark Gugel, a walk-on wl10 graduated from coach Yves Auriol's novice pro­gram. 
Head coach Mike· DeCicco also made special mention of formerly retired Supervisor of Athletic Grounds Harold Ben­ninghoff, as well as senior manager Mark Byrne. 
"I am very happy with the performance of this year's team, despite their finish," said DeCicco, whose team will begin practicing earlier in August. "This squad is very strong­willed and determined. And to those of you who may not be around next year with us, I will say this. If you come back to Notre Dame next season, this 
will  be  the  national champi­ 
onship  team.  I promise  you  
that."  

This year's squads are grad­uating only eight seniors, two of which may return to com­plete a last year of eligibility while pursuing a graduate de­gree. 

Need Practice with interviewing 
while earning $50 as an interviewee? 
Come join us for our Interviewing Skills Workshop, June 18-22, July 23-27, or August 20-24 at our Center for Professional Education in St. Charles, Illinois. We are looking for students to participate as practice interviewees with our professionals who are developing their interviewing skills. 
As part of this one-day seminar, each Andersen Consulting recruiter will conduct 30-minute practice interviews with three different students. Each interview will be videotaped followed by a critique of the interviewer and interviewee. In addition to the practice interviews, a class will be conducted that covers the interviewing process, from resume writing to evaluating job offers. 
The ideal candidates for this workshop are engineering, computer science, business, and M.B.A. students entering their last year of school next fall. 
The workshop will take place each business day listed above from 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Participants should plan on arriving at St. Charles between 6:00p.m. and 8:00p.m. the evening prior. We will provide you with overnight accommodations and meals at our Center in St. Charles. Participants will be paid $50 for services as a practice interviewee. 
If you are interested in participating, please forward a cover letter, resume, and the date you would like to attend by May 1, 1990 to: 
Jane Nelson 
Andersen Consulting Interviewing Skills Workshop ANDERSEN 33 West Monroe Street 
CONSULTING
Chicago, Illinois 60603 
AR1HUR ANDERSEN & CO~ S.C. 

Selected candidates will receive a letter with details. 

Happy 19th from your roomie, an Eanas and a Fizzix nerd!! 
Thurs: Club Cup Nite Baseball officials talked about a plan during the off­
Fri.: Closed • stall reasons season and put it into effect on opening day. Many teams, in­cluding the Cincinnati Reds, al­ready had such a policy for sev­eral years. 
on the beach! 
with Notre Dame Lacrosse 
Well. there won't be any sand. really. but there will be: A DJ and beach music beginning one hour before game tim a Frisbee accuracy contest at halftime (B.Y.O.F.) *free Coke squeeze bottles to the first 300 fans* a great lacrosse match 
Gatch Irish lacrosse 1n a pivotal game 
----~­
for the winners. Scott Winsor was a force in the middle as well as he added seven points and 10 rebounds. Warren Pal­more's team-leading seven points for Scoregasrns included a tremendous stickback dunk on a rebound of a teammate's miss. 
Senior Bar continued to rip through the Bookstore field with a 21-11 triumph over Pittsburgh is Weak. Hay Flan­nery. who led Senior Bar with seven points and 14 rebounds, was quick to praise playrnaking point guard Tony Dill for his role in the team's success. 
"I think Tony Dill has played really well throughout the tournament," Glannery said. "llis intensity is unparalleled out there. lie's all over the court working hard, and even though he only scored two points today, when needed he can hit the jumper from the outside." 
C.J.'s was involved in a nail­biter against Peach's, but man­aged to squeak out a 21-19 vic­tory. Peach's took the early lead in that one, but C.J.'s used 
for 
at 4 pm 
ences," Rich Levin, a
NOON·Z 
spokesman for the commis­sioner's office, said Wednesday. 
a bid to the NCAAs 
Notre Dame vs. Ohio State on Saturday after the Blue-Gold game at Moose Krause Stadium 
(behind the JACQ 
page 17 

John Dowd and his investiga­
tors used records of calls in 
and out of the Heds' clubhouse 
early in the 1987 season to 
check into Hose's involvement 
with gamblers. Those logs re­
vealed that Paul Janszen, who 
claimed he placed bets for 
Rose, made 21 calls to the Heds 
manager in the locker room 
during the lirst three months of 
that season. 
Those logs also showed the 
personal and professional calls 
made to and from the locker 
rooms at Hiverfront Stadium. 
There were calls to agents, 
restaurants, wives and other 
players, including one from Ge­
orge Foster, formerly with the 
Heds and New York Mets, to 
Lance Parrish. who was at the 
ballpark with Philadelphia to 
play Cincinnati. 
The American and National Leagues have sent telephone logs sheets to each team. and switchboard operators must keep records of calls to and from both clubhouses and the umpires' locker room. 
Some teams that have auto­mated phone systems are mak­ing adjustments to comply. They are changing their sys­tems so that callers cannot by­pass the switchboard operators by directly dial extensions to reach the clubhouse. 
"I don't know of any prob­lems we've had so far," Levin said. 
The New York Mets are among the teams that previ­ously kept telephone logs. All calls from the home and visiting clubhouses had to go through a switchboard operator, who would record the call and place it. 
The last crackdown involving clubhouses came after the drug problems in Pittsburgh in 1985. After it was revealed that sev­eral undesirables had been in the Pirates' locker room at 
The Observer 
the dribble to penetrate the gaps in the 2-3 zone defense employed by Peach's to get easy buckets inside. 
"That was the first time we had faced a zone," said Torn Veltz of C.J.'s. "If we continue to go against zones, though, I think we can penetrate and dump it inside and get some easy baskets as well as hit the 15-foot jump shot." 
With C.J.'s leading 16-13, the game suddenly turned around, however. Peach's scored a bas­ket inside and Steve Belles tried to knock the ball back up out of the hoop. He was immediately whistled with a technical foul. Peach's converted the free throw and scored on the ensu­ing turnover to tie it at 16-16. 
The teams battled back and forth until Torn Gorman banged home a layup for the win. 
In other games yesterday, powerful Adworks breezed past Fighting Kernals 21-13 as Jim Dolan scored seven points; Soul Sonic Force washed out The Good, The Bad and The Laun­dry 21-14 behind eight points by Dorsey Levens; and Gauchos got eight points from Dave Bose in a 21-17 win over Segue . 
The Bookstore Basketball Committee re-seeded the re­maining teams last night and set up a schedule and a bracket which will take the tournament up to Sunday's 3 p.m. final. 
Adworks was seeded first and will play Shoot or Get Off today at 5:30 p.m. This was not a great surprise, as Adworks has steamrolled all of its opponents to date and defending champion Malicious Prostitution, which was seeded second, has struggled a bit. 
"They really deserve it," said Jim Flynn of Prostitution. 
NEW YORK (AP) -More fallout from the Pete Rose case: because of the way he used ballpark telephones, all calls to and from every major league clubhouse this season are being logged. 
"It's being done for every­one's benefit, to protect against gambling and other bad influ­Three Hivers Stadium, the commissioner's office set up 
........................................~~~··············..IJIIIJIIIJIIIJIIIJIIIII'IIIIIIIII'IIIIIIIII'IIIIIIIII'IIIIIIIII'IIIIII"".....t~l security procedures to cut 
lllllllllllllilllllllilllllllilllllllilllllllilllllllilllllllillllll..llllllllllll············....····~~lllllllllllllilllllllillllllliiiiiiiMMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.........~..IJI down on clubhouse access. 

-----~--..._.._......,---­
page 18 The Observer Thursday, April 26, 1990 
Power outage in Toronto doesn't affect Blue Jays 
TORONTO (AP)-There was no power shortage at the SkyDome Wednesday night. 
While most of downtown Toronto was in darkness due to a transformer explosion, Kelly Gruber lit up the SkyDome. He went 4-for-5, including his ma­jor league-leading seventh home run, as the Blue Jays won their third straight, a 5-3 vic­tory over the Cleveland Indians. 
"Everything is falling in for me," said Gruber, who is 8-for­11 in three games against the Indians. "It's a combination of a couple of things. I'm not missing the pitches I should be hitting and I'm not wasting any swings on bad pitches." 
Athletics 4, Orioles 3 
BALTIMORE -Jose Canseco, who earlier hit a two-run homer, singled home the go­ahead run in the 12th inning and Oakland beat Baltimore. 
Carney Lansford drew a two­out walk from Kevin Hickey (0­1). stole second and scored when Canseco singled into the left-field corner on a 3-2 pitch. Canseco went 4-for-6, while the Orioles got a total of just three hits. 
Tigers 6, Twins 4 
MINNEAPOLIS Cecil Fielder drove home three runs and the Detroit Tigers beat the Minnesota Twins night for their first road series victory in nearly a year. 
The Tigers won two of three at Minnesota. They had lost 19 straight series on the road, go­ing 15-50 in those games, since winning a set in Chicago last May. 
Women's 
continued from page 20 
Mahoney attributes this to their success. 
"Our strong point is having played together in the past, be­cause we know each other's tendencies and abilities," she said. 
Untamed Lyons, who faces the number four seed Hoosier Lawyers today, beat Slow Mo­tion handily by the score of 21­
5. Meg Hobday from the Lyons squad, gave credit for the win to Maureen Nelligan, who went 9 for 12. 
"Maureen was a key to our win," said Hobday. "She was a point guard who controlled the game." 
Untamed Lyons made it to the Sweet Sixteen on one win, after getting their victory in the first round by forfeit. Their style of play was aggressive, with a number of steals pacing their win. 
"Three of the seniors have played together before, which helped a lot," Hobday said. "The key was our defense. We had a lot of fast breaks and steals." 
In a game cut short by an in­jury, the third seed C. J.'s Gals won over Smooth, Swift, and Sweaty by 17-6. During the second half, a player from Smooth, Swift, and Sweaty couldn't go on, and the team decided to end the game rather than continue with four play­ers. 
Liz Toohey, who scored five points for C.J.'s Gals, praised Mia Tettenhorn, a Saint Mary's basketball player, as a crucial factor in their win. 
"This game was the first we had played with Mia," Toohey said. "She really helped bring the ball down and was a big as­set to us. We had never played together before as a team, so this win was great for all of us." 
White Sox 5, Rangers 4 
ARLINGTON, Texas -Ron Kittle's two-run homer helped Chicago take an early lead and the White Sox held off the Texas Rangers, ending a four­game losing streak. 
Kittle put Chicago ahead 4-1 in the third inning with his sec­ond home run of the season. The White Sox added a run in the fourth on a balk by Bobby Witt (0-3) before Texas rallied. 
Brewers 1, Royals 0 
MILWAUKEE -Tom Filer and two relievers combined for Milwaukee's fifth shutout of the season and Dave Parker's first triple in two years helped the Brewers beat the Kansas City Royals. 
Mariners 5, Yankees 2 
NEW YORK -Brian Holman, making his first start since coming within one out of a perfect game, won for the third time in four starts, leading the Seattle Mariners over the New York Yankees. 
Edgar Martinez got three hits, including a two-run homer that capped a three-run seventh inning and put Seattle ahead 5­
1. Don Mattingly homered in the eighth for the Yankees, who have lost six of their last seven games. 
Holman (3-1), who lost his perfect game last Friday when Oakland pinch hitter Ken Phelps homered with two outs ih the ninth, ran into quick trouble. He walked leadoff bat­ter Steve Sax and Mel Hall tripled with two outs. 
But Holman did not allow an­other run in six innings. He gave up eight hits, seven of them singles, struck out seven and walked one. Mike Schooler got his third save. 
Expos 1, Astros 0 
HOUSTON -Tim Raines scored on a ninth-inning wild pitch by reliever Dave Smith, giving Montreal the victory over Houston. 

Raines singled with one out in the ninth and moved to third on a two-out single to right by Andres Galarraga. 
Galarraga moved to second on the first of Smith's two con­secutive wild pitches, but Raines was unable to advance on the play. But the second wild pitch hit in front of the plate and bounced by catcher Craig Biggio, allowing Raines to score. 
Steve Frey (1-0) was the win­ner. pitching a perfect eighth inning, and Tim Burke recorded his fifth save, pitching the ninth. 
Angels 3, Red Sox 1 
BOSTON (AP) Kirk McCaskill and two relievers worked out of constant trouble 
and the California Angels beat
the Boston Red Sox for their , second victory in seven games. 
The Red Sox loaded the bases three times without scoring and left 14 runners on base. They got 13 hits and four walks, but their only run came in the 
HappyZist 
~@\7@! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Sue, Kevin, and Sharon 
ATTENTION: Grad Students Professors Employees 
•furnished 
and unfurnished suites 

•flexible 
leases 

•washer 
&dryer each apt. 

•locked 
intercom entrances 

•spacious 
floor plans w/country kitchens 


le)()Q Su!"' MAp6to Non 
Soulh ~",· ln(ll"'"' .&Clll6 
219. 277. 3731 @ 
fourth inning on Bill Buckner's inside-the-park homer. 
McCaskill (2-0) allowed nine hits and two walks in five in­nings. He escaped bases-loaded jams in the first and fourth. Mike Witt relieved to start the sixth and Boston again loaded the bases, but Ellis Burks grounded into an inning-ending double play. Mark Eichhorn went 1 1-3 innings for his fourth save. 
Reds 12, Phillies 

Philadelphia -Mariano Duncan raised his average to .448 with three hits, including a three-run homer, and Todd Benzinger drove in three runs as the Cincinnati Reds routed the Philadelphia Phillies 12-7 Wednesday night. 
Cardinals 5, Dodgers 1 
LOS ANGELES -Bryn Smith pitched a seven-hitter for eight innings and delivered the first two runs with a double-play grounder and a bases-loaded single as the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 5-1 Wednesday night. 
Smith struck out two and walked one, and the only run he allowed was unearned in the eighth inning. The right-han­der, who signed with the Cardinals as a free agent last November after nine seasons with Montreal, ran his record to 2-2 despite having only four runs to work with in his previ­ous three starts this year. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!:.~:.!o\:!:.!,:,!o\;!:,\. 
.,, 

~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~.' Giant.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!W 
DORM AND APARTMENT PILLOWS ON SALE 

FOUA FEET XFOUfll FEET 

at the 
SUPER SALE 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
SATURDAY, APRIL 28th 10AM -10PM SUNDAY, APRIL 29th 1OAM -6PM 
*ALSO, special sale on ND BEACH BLANKETS 
Thu~day,Apri126, 1990 The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Thursday 
12 p.m. Lecture: "Notre Dame and the Post Cold War World," Bishop Thomas Gumbleton, Auxilliary Bishop of Detroit and President of Pax Christi USA. Room 121 Law Sehool. Sponsored by Institute for International Peace 
Studies. 
4:30 p.m. Lecture: "All You Need to Know About Applying to Graduate School." Dr. John Duman, ND Department of Biological Sciences. Room 101 Galvin Life Sciences. Sponsored by the Biology Club. 
7:30 p.m. Panel Discussion: "The Role of Diversity in Setting of Homan Catholic Worship." Panelists include Fa­ther Cheri, Father Bede Abram of the Archdiocese of New Orleans and Sr. Eleanor Bernstein, director of ND's Cen­ter for Pastoral Liturgy. Grace Hall. Sponsored by Notre Dame's Multicultural Executive Council, the Office of Campus Ministry and the Sister Thea Bowman Founda­tion. 
Friday 
10:10 a.m. Lecture: "Magnetic Properties and Critical Current Density of High Temperature Superconductors," Dr. Paul Chu, University of Houston. Room 302 Cushing. Sponsored by Department of Physics. 
12 p.m. Humanities Colloquium: "Jane Austen's Failures: How Not to Be," Wesley Kirkpatrick (Philosophy). Hoom 131 Decio. 
CAMPUS 
Thursday 
7:30 p.m. Musical Comedy: "The Fantasticks." Presented by the Notre Dame Student Players. Washington Hall. Tickets required. Sponsored by SUB Performing Arts. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
1 SE'C. '1CJJ'Rt. '10\l'R£ l\JC.V-'1 -rnro-T G//lLS BRI~GI~G t>. ~1 'r\f>..-1£ W PIJT \lP 'Nil\{ Gt!:l'l'C. moM . nus ~1{5£1-ist:. IF ;.. 01() '1CtJ SIGN 61/lL OO~~i WP..t-n it> IJP !=OR Rt.~ f\J..'( ~. l>lr>.l's ~~~~! 
SASEBP..tl.~ 

8\J\ \~ r>. fiVY Dots~'\' SPrnD 
eN i\-\t. c-rnE.R 
\\I'S ~Ht.RI'IOO~S C'r\r-.5\NEr 
1-\f.-~0. BOYS 
~t. '51\lP\O 13r>.\L, 1-\t:.'s 
ARffi1 E'l<PECIE.O 
CA\.l..£0 "-WI"'P.' 'iO\l G\RI.S 
m SK~tl 'rnt.IR {):)~i GH 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 25 Leonie 52 Posterior Rysanek's field 57 Fable finale 1 "Be Prepared" 27 Short coats org. 59 Zeta follower 4 Little Iodine, e.g. 30 P GA member 62 Phone or scope 8 Sulked 33 False claim preceder 37 Trap for congers 63 -­a customer 13 Mercer, for one 39 What errants do 64 Sky15 Jellystone· Park 40 To the point resident 66 "Abdul the 42 Soviet range Bulbul-"16 Noel Coward's 67 Coloratura Mills "To Step-" 43H.C. Andersen's 68 Tizzy11 Neatened birthplace 69 Works the bar 19 Flax product 45 Huggins and 70 Jan's singing 20 George M. Houk, once partnerCohan's 47 Part of r.p.m. ancestors 71 Place-kicking 48 Referee gadget21 Clique so Eminence­22 Very Sl1)all (confidential DOWN23 Hercules, to lole agent) 1 Alkaline 2 Opposite of infra ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Anchor position 4 Succinct farewell 5 A mile contains 320­26 Exhibited 6 Fit of shivering exultation 7 Move through 28 Suffix for journal the tulips 29 Nobelist in8 Like a film falcon Physics: 1938 9 Basketry twig 31 Laugh loudly 32 Birdsong of basketball 33 Support 34 Took the train 35 Streisand hit 24 Lessees record  36 Number of "Little Indians" 38 Fail to keep up 41 Minded the baby 44 St. Elmo is their patron 46 Bakery emanation 49 Bellyached 51 Given a value 53 Flanges 54 Bloodhound's clue  55 Bernsen role on "LA Law" 56 Actress Lenya 57 Torquilstone defense 58 "Don't Tread 60 Flag 61 Bumbry solo 65 "All the President's  .J  
MENUS Notre Dame Stuffed Pork Chops Cajun Scrod Veg. Casserole Mar. Flank Steak Sandwich  Saint Mary's Hamburgers Hot Dogs  
THE FAR SIDE  GARY LARSON  SPELUNKER  JAY HOSLER  





 rr'fie :A{ptre 1Jame Student Pfayers present  
SUB is conducting open interviews Thursday, April 26th for Relations and Marketing Depts. No application necessary!  ~~' Thursday, April 26th thru Saturday, April 28th 7:30 pm Washington Hall  
Call 239-7757 for appointment.  $5 Generol Public $3 Students/Senior Citizens--­ 



Sports
page 20 
Baseball sweeps two; beating Chicago State 
Sophomore Mike Rooney came
Special to the Observer 
in to pinch run for Jacobs and went to third when Craig 
The Notre Dame baseball Counsell reached on an error. team swept a doubleheader last night from Chicago State at The Chicago State catcher Coveleski Stadium, winning by threw the ball away when scores of 6-3 in game one and Counsell stole second, allowing 3-2 in game two. Rooney to score the tying run, 
and after Counsell advanced to 
Freshman Adam Maisano had third on a wild pitch, junior two hits, including a second-in­Mike Coss laid down a bunt ning home run, and four RBis single to drive him in for the in the first game as Tom Gulka game-winner. picked up the win and Mike Coffey got the save for the Senior Tony Livorsi shut Irish. down Chicago State in the top 
of the seventh to preserve the 
Notre Dame was down 2-0 in victory. Livorsi went 2 1/3 in­the sixth inning of game two nings in relief to record the win when catcher Ed Lund walked for the Irish. Notre Dame will with one out. After Matt Krall travel to Detroit for double­struck out, Frank Jacobs hit a headers on Saturday and double that scored Lund. Sunday. 
Softball ends 13-game winning streak splitting two 
By JAMES NOLL Sports Writer  "I was nervous at first," said the versatile Alvarez who splits time in the outfield, "but I  
calmed down after the first two  
The Notre Dame's women's  innings."  
softball  team  split  a  double  After giving up three hits and  
header  to  the  Grace  College  striking out  none  in the first  
Lancers Wednesday afternoon.  two innings, Alvarez regrouped,  
Playing under rain-threaten­ one-hitting Grace College and  
ing skies, the Irish (29-14) were  recording all of her eight K's in  
attempting to extend their win­ the game's final five innings. At  
ning streak to 14 games after  the  plate, sophomore  second  
defeating the unheralded Grace  baseman Laurie Sommerlad Jed  
College squad 9-2 in the first  the Irish with two hits, includ­ 
game. However, Grace College  ing  a  double  and  two  RBI's.  
pitcher Cheryl Lancaster had  Supporting  Sommerlad  were  
other  plans  as  she  lead  the  junior Megan Fay, who had two  
Lancers (18-9) to a 2-0 victory  hits, and freshman Lisa Miller  
by  throwing  a  three-hitter  who tripled in the fourth, driv­ 
against the fatigued Irish bat­ ing in a run and extending the  
ters.  score  to 4-2. From that point  
"We really pitched well,  we  on, the Irish systematically tal­ 
were  just struggling  at  the  lied five  more  runs  and  rou­ 
plate,"  said  Irish coach Greg  tinely  shut  down  the  Grace  
Boulac.  squad in the field.  
Pitched well the Irish did as  The second game, expected to  
seasoned  Freshman  Ronny  go as the first, turned sour for  
The Observer/Man Mitlino The Notre Dame softball team split two with Grace College Wednesday, snapping a 13-game winning streak for the Irish.  Alvarez (3-1) lead the young Notre Dame team by striking out eight and allowing only four Grace hits.  the Irish as they let tough op­posing pitching and lethargic see SOFTBALL I page 16  

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey The Notre Dame baseball team continued to win Wednesday, defeating Chicago State in a doubleheader 6-3 and 3-2. 
Bookstore competition nears championship Phone use of NO football
Adworks seeded first in title defense 
By KEN TYSIAC cated left shoulder, had been 
~eam probed
Associate Sports Editor replaced temporarily by Mickey Carter in the Prostitution 
Observer Staff Report

Malicious Prostitution sur­lineup. vived a scare against Digger's "He (Van Dyke) seems to be NIT Express when point guard feeling better." said Prostitu­
Notre Dame officials have Joe Scott canned a free throw tion forward Jim Flynn. "We 
informed the NCAA of a uni­for a 21-18 victory at Stepan need his force inside as an in­
versity investigation of pos­Center yesterday as the Book­timidator on defense, and he 
sible misuse of a telephone store Basketball XIX field was creates problems defensively 
credit card number by mem­narrowed to 16. for the other team as well." 
bers of the football team, 6-11 center Pete Van Dyke Flynn had some kind words 
according to a newspaper returned to action yesterday for Digger's NIT Express. 
report Wednesday. for Prostitution, scoring four "They are a really good 
The telephone charges points to go along with his team," he said. "They play re-
reached thousands of dollars seven rebounds. Van Dyke, who 
and could involve several 
see MEN'S! page 17 
players, the South Bend Tri­bune reported. 
has been sidelined with a dislo­
Women's teams reseeded for finals 
Coach Lou Holtz refused to game against 4 Girls Who Like 
comment but hinted several
By JANICE ARCHER 
players may be disciplinedto Score With Their Feet and
Sports Writer 
for reasons he declined to Molly Mahoney, a former 
One Under 4'8". 
explain. 

The field in the Women's Notre Dame walk-on, was her 
"We never discuss disci­Bookstore Basketball Tourna­team's high scorer with 7 
plinary matters within the ment was narrowed to the points in 11 attempts. 
university," he said. "When Sweet Sixteen yesterday as the "We played much better today 
we practice, a certain num­new seedings were released, as a team," Mahoney said. "We 
ber of individuals will be with many of the teams ex­were hitting more shots from 
confined to study hall." pected to win doing just that. the outside, and were getting 
Said David Berst of the The Meta Mucils, without vol­our inside and outside games 
NCAA Enforcement Office, leyball captain Kathy Cunning­going." 
"We will not make a public ham, who is out with a back in­The squad has played before 
statement regarding the jury, still won easily over De­on P. E.'s interhall team. and 
matter until we have all the nial, 21-6. The squad earned a 
details. We'll have to review fifth place seed in their next see WOMEN'S! page 18 
the matter at some point." 





