

VOL. XXIII NO. 26 
MONDAY OCTOBER 1 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
New ROTC center will be dedicated this week 
Special to the Observer service, the Air Force estab­lished a ROTC unit on campus. 

The nation's largest privately The Army returned to campus financed Reserve Officers' in 1951, and re-established a Training Corps center will be program which had previously dedicated October 5-6 at the existed on campus during University of Notre Dame. World War I. 
The $5-million Pasquerilla Center is the gift of Notre Today, the Army ROTC has Dame trustee Frank 156 men and 43 women cadets; Pasquerilla of Johnstown, Pa. It the Navy, 277 males and 25 fe­will house Notre Dame's Army, males; and the Air For;,e, 139 Navy and Air Force ROTC de­males and 41 females. tachments, which include 681 students. The University has The 50,000 square-foot 
_,... __ ._,,•...;o 

more ROTC scholarships in ef­Pasquerilla Center will replace fect than any other educational a "temporary" structure built institution. in 1943. It provides each armed 
Lt. Gen. Thomas W. Kelly, di­service with an office complex, .,J rector of operations for the including staff and counseling .Joint Chiefs of StaiT, will be the space, a conference room, and ranking representative of the classrooms of various sizes. armed services at the dedica­The center's classrooms are tion ceremoiiles. The cere­also being used for 37 other monies held on October 5 will classes in courses ranging from feature a 5:15 p.m. mass in African-American studies to Sacred Heart Church, followed mathematics. by a reception and dinner. The blessing of the building and Pasquerilla is chairman of the tours are scheduled for 9 a.m. board and chief executive offi­on October 6. cer of Crown American 
The Navy was the first to Corporation, one of the coun­establish a ROTC program on try's largest mall developers. campus in September 1941. An Pasquerilla led the Crown estimated 12,000 officers in the American Corporation to in 1950. women's residence halls at His son, Mark, a 1981 Notre V-7 and V-12 programs com­amass 33 regional shopping Six years later, Pasquerilla Notre Dame. He was awarded Dame graduate, was named pleted their training on campus malls, 13 community stropping was elected president and by an honorary degree from the president of Crown American by 1946. centers. 21 hotels, 5 office 1961. He owned the firm University in 1982 and two earlier this year, after having 
In 1947, within months of buildings and 7 5 department outright. He has also under-years later joined the board of served as executive vice presi­being established as a separate stores. He joined the company written the construction of two trustees. dent since 1987. 
Saddam urges dialogue; U.S., Soviets plan military actions 
(AP)-Saddam Hussein struck world leaders meeting at the phasized that the talks with the those that existed with Iran, peace," Fahd said Saturday. "It a softer note Sunday in the United Nations moved to shore Soviets were tentative -the Moslem state." is the best door on which to Persian Gulf crisis, urging up diplomatic efforts against "Everybody is looking at op­Shortly after invading knock at these times." peaceful dialogue instead of his country. tions." The officials spoke on Kuwait, Saddam abandoned His remarks were distributed "threats and warnings." U.S. U.S. officials -told The condition of anonymity. territorial claims against Iran Sunday by the official Saudi 
. . T he Observer/photo courtesy of ROTC Th~ Pasq~enlla ~~nter ~~~~.be t~e largest. privately financed Reserve Officers' Training Corps building in the nat1on. Th1s $5-mlll!on bUilding w1ll be ded1cated at the University of Notre Dame October 5-6. It will house the Army, Navy, and A1r Force ROTC detachments on campus. 
Three students attacked at night in local neighborhood 
By MEGAN JUNIUS student, was accosted near News Writer Club 23, 744 N. Notre Dame Avenue. She was walking 
Three students were with a friend from Club 23 atta(:ked on Notre Dame to the Commons. Avenue in two separate The students were half a instances late last wt~ek. block away from Bridget 
James Leahy and Lawrence MacGuire's Filling Station Eiben, both Notre Dame stu­when a man rounded the dents, were walking along corner and began to walk 
the 1100 block of Notre towards them, Clair said. 'Dame Avenue at 1:30 a.m. The path was fairly well lit, 1Friday wheR they noticed according to Clair. The man eight men approaching from walked past her for a about a block away, said moment and then Leahy. unexpectedly grabbed her Leahy said the men openly arm from behind, she said. 
confronted the two students and proceeded to hit and He proceeded to throw her kick· Leahy in the face and against a fence and grab her head. Leahy's wallet and purse. The attacker . then shoes, as well as Eiben's paused for a few seconds be­watch and wallet, were fore running off. she said. taken, he said. Neither suf· Clair immediately ran to fered any serious injuries. Bridget MacGuire's Filling 
About 24 hours earlier, Station where she reported Kerry Clair, a Saint Mary's the incident to the poli.;e. 
President Bush will address that had been a major stum­Press Agency. the General Assembly on bling block to reaching an Iran­Monday. Brent Scowcroft, his Iraq peace. The neighbors Thousands of French troops national security adviser, said fought a bloody war from joined the lJ.S.-led multina­Friday that America is consid­1980-88 before a U.N.-bro­tional force in the gulf on ering asking U.N. authorization kered cease-fire halted the Sunday, and U.S. and British for military action. fighting. warships stopped and searched 
The Security Council has al­When Iraq massed troops on a ship carrying refugees from ready approved an economic Saudi borders after invading the region. boycott, a military blockade Kuwait, Fahd asked military and an air embargo. forces from the United States Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak 
Saudi King Fahd urged and other Western, Islamic and Shamir warned in a speech Saddam to seek a peaceful so­Arab states to defend his coun­Sunday in Jerusalem that anylution, saying: "It should not be try, the world's No. 1 exporter Arab ruler who attacks Israel hard or difficult for President of oil. would "swiftly discover he has Saddam to overcome the hur­"Saudi Arabia does not hesi­made a terrible mistake." Iraq 
dles just as he knocked down tate to knock on the door of has threatened Israel. 
Students protest at S. Bend abortion clinic 
By kELLEY TUTHILL Rhomberg. Other members of we can tell them about the al­News Editor the group said they were con­ternatives to abortion," said cerned because the clinic is lo­Landry. 
A group of students from the cated only a few blocks from The Women's Care Center Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right the Notre Dame and Saint provides referrals and sponsors to Life club held a peaceful Mary's campuses. a "shepherding" program protest outside of the South The doctors and nurses get where couples take in pregnant Bend abortion clinic Friday. annoyed about the protests, the girls, Sheliga said. 
Approximately 20 students students said. However, said stood outside the Women's Mike Sheliga, "They can't make The students said they have a Pavilion located at 2010 us leave." problem with the professionals Ironwood Circle to "show a vis­"It's garbage," said Dr. who perform abortions. " ... A ible sign of disagreement" with Ulrich Klopfer, who performs doctor is supposed to heal life, the practices going on inside, abortions at the clinic. "If not take life," said Landrv. said senior Maria Rhomberg, they're unhappy, they should president of the club. move to Saudi Arabia." The If a woman is pregnant due 
This clinic, the only place students should not protest a to a date rape, she should not where abortions can be legally peaceful business, he said. be forced to have a child, said obtained in South Bend, per­"Sometimes we get someone Klopfer in support of his stance forms abortions three days a to talk to us," said Jay Landry. on abortion. week, she said. He said that only one in 50 
A few members of the group women will stop and talk to the The group hopes to protest held signs and stood in a park­members of the Right to Life the clinic once a month. In ad­ing lot across from the clinic, group. The students try to con­dition, Rhomberg said Right to while others stood on Ironwood vince women to talk to coun­Life will sponsor a carnation Road, showing their signs to selors at the nearby Life sale the weekend of the Air motorists driving by. Choices center or to seek help Force game to raise money for 
"People are not aware that at the Women's Care Center. the group and the Women's there is a clinic here," said "If someone will talk to us, Care Center in South Bend. 

and Soviet officials were re­ported drafting U.N. resolu­tions to authorize the use of military force against Iraq if an economic squeeze fails to force Iraq out of Kuwait. 
Saddam said Sunday he no longer opposed foreign-power involvement in seeking a settle­ment to the crisis, touched ofT by Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait. 
His message, broadcast on Iraqi TV and radio, came as Associated Press the superpow­ers would move against Iraq under U.N. auspices if other measures failed, but Moscow wanted a joint military com­mand while Washington pre­ferred more "logistical" leeway. 
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze said Sunday that Soviet forces would participate in any action against Iraq authorized by the United Nations. 
One of the U.S. officials em­

page 2 The Observer Monday. October 1 • 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Fan savors 
last days of 

Comiskey 
Never mind the fact --------­
that I spent $30 and can't recall exactly where the money went. Forget that I didn't know the names of any Chicago White Sox players. Who cares that my roommate missed the Peter Loftus 
whole game because Asst. News Editor 
he was too drunk, and was kicked out of the park by security in the fourth inning. 
None of that mattered, because now I can say that I experienced Chicago's Comiskey Park in its dying days. 
I'm not a White Sox fan at all. The Philadelphia Phillies are my team, but don't hold it against me. The American League has always seemed so foreign to me, with designated hitters and other such nonsense. 
But that didn't matter. I was at Comiskey. Built in 1910, the "Great Lady," is now ex­tinct. The new Comiskey Park has, for the most part, been constructed, and sits across the street from the old one. 
Before Thursday's game against the Mil­waukee Brewers, someone told me that watching a game in Comiskey was like watching the film, "The Natural." He was right. It was near-magical. The park sits right in the heart of the South Side of Chicago, not in some vast sports complex built on marshes. In big green letters it says "COMISKEY PARK" over the main entrance to the stadium. Two levels of green seats wrap around the field, with a space in cen­terfield for the "exploding" scoreboard. The field is real grass, of course. 
The fans were true baseball fans--old and young. My friends and I encountered a short old guy on our way into the stadium. He said he was 70 and had been a Sox fan all his life. He's traveled to see the Sox play in several other stadiums. I was thrilled to be talking to a true, die-hard Sox fan, someone who's stuck with the team in spite of their history of mediocrity. 
Our seats were choice--first level behind home plate. A little boy named David, clad in all White Sox clothing, sat in front of me. He didn't pay much attention to the game; I don't think he realized the importance of his being present at the oldest ball park in the Major Leagues. 
I started to pester this 34-year-old south­side native sittinlt in front of me, interrogating him as to why he liked the Sox so much and what he thought of Comiskey. He was busy watching the game, but he did tell me that he hated the Cubs, so I decided to hate them, too. 
We drank Old Style, ate pizza, nachos and hot dogs. We cheered when White Sox player Frank Thomas hit a home run in the third inning and the big scoreboard ex­ploded. Incidentally, the Sox beat the Brew­ers, 6-4, setting a major league record for saves in a season when Bobby Thigpen recorded his 55th save. 
The details of the game weren't impor­tant, however, because the excitement of experiencing the old Comiskey Park is the only thing I'll remember. 

Ihe Obsei:Ver-
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 

Today's Staff: Production Business News Michelle Wood Christine Walsh Bradley Galka Wendy Cunningham Colleen Gannon Siobhan McCarthy Lisa Eaton Rene Ferran Ad Design VIewpoint Lisa Gunsorek Accent Kathy Welsh Anita Covelli Cristina Ortiz David Certo Tony Paganelli Shonda Wilson Joy Harris Paul Pearson Systems Amalia Meier Circulation Scoreboard Fritz Valsaint Bill O'Roukrke Chris Cooney Matt Novak Rene Ferran 
Sports Ken Tysiac 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 1. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
70 60 
FRONTS: COLO WARM STATIONARY ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © ~~~ ~ m 0 0 X 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Yesterday's high: 61 Yesterday's low: 49 Nation's high: 103 (Red Bluff, Calif.) Nation's low: 26 (Gunnison, Colo.) Forecast: Variable cloudiness today with a 30 percent chance of showers until early after­noon, then clouds de­creasing. High around 
65. Clear tonight, low in the 40s. Mostly sunny and warmer tomorrow, with a high around 70. 
High school tutors are available to help lower ele­mentary children with homework. For information, call Betsy at 284-4441. 
Volunteer program recruiters representing 45 different groups will offer specific information to stu­dents tomorrow night at the esc from 7-10 p.m. 
Sharon Brannen of the Christian Appalachian Project Volunteer Program will be available today at Saint Mary's LeMans Lobby from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Tomorrow she will be available at the Ubrary Concourse from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., at the esc from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m., and at the Volunteer Fair tomorrow evening. 
Snite Museum of Art will present a gallery talk on the work of nine contemporary artists tomorrow at 12:10 to 12:55 p.m. 
Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) will have a meeting today at 8 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. All members are required to attend. 
Geographic Club Presidents must report their officers' names and events for the upcoming year to the Alumni Association at 239-6000. All clubs must be recog­nized by the Alumni Association in order to sponsor bus rides and/or moving vans. 
Ballroom Dance Club has moved to Room 301 at the Rockne Memorial, 7 p.m. Monday nights. 
WORLD 
West German residents of the Steinstuecken vil­lage turned out to say thanks and farewell to the American soldiers this weekend. After World War II, the village was cut off from the metropolis by East German territory. Only one road link was open, thanks to U.S. military officials posted in the village. American heli­copters made supply flights, providing the enclave with a vital link to the outside world. With the unification of East and West Germany a few days away, the village mayor, Juergen Klemann, said, "We must protect this German-American friendship and widen it in the future." 
A founder of the governing party of New Delhi, Indiana quit Parliament on Sunday to protest Prime Minister V.P. Singh's plan to reserve nearly half of gov­ernment jobs for low-caste Hindus. The government says it promoted the plan to counteract discrimination and win social justice for the historically deprived castes. Upper­caste students say they will suffer reverse discrimination and lose jobs for which they are better qualified. The plan has ignited weeks of riots in which at least 50 people have been killed in clashes with police. Singh was accused of "preparing the ground for civil war." 
NATIONAL 
Police used tear aas to break up a block party at the University of Akron ili.at turned into a riot when rev­elers attacked authorities trying to put out a bonfrre. 17 people were injured and 89 arrested, officials said. Some of the college-aged youths tried to block the police en­trance and then threw bottles, rocks and glass at emer­gency personnel trying to douse the frre, officials said. Officer Brian Reilly said when police asked the crowd to disperse, "They kept the frre going and continued chant­ing, 'Hell no, we won't go." Police used tear gas and fire­fighters turned their hoses on the crowd to break up the 
melee. 
INDIANA 
Infant mortality, day care and early educa­tion are being targeted by Kiwanis clubs around Indiana as part of a three-year program to im­prove the lives of children from the womb to age 
5. Kiwanians will focus on four basic needs: ma­ternal and infant health, child care and deve-lop­mental education, parent education and support, and safety and pediatric trauma. Kiwanis International President W.J. Blechman said Sunday, "Our hope is that by getting ourselves in­volved we will make a difference in the health and well-being of the child of the future." 

Good grief, the "Peanuts" gang is turning 40. In honor of the 40th anniversary of the comic strip "Peanuts," there's a jazz concert at Carnegie Hall, a birthday party at the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County and a special exhibit at the Smithsonian Institution. "Peanuts" made its debut in seven newspa­pers on Oct. 2, 1950, and good ol' Charlie Brown and his beguiling beagle were on their way to becoming an inter­national phenomenon. Today the strip runs in 2,300 newspapers and reaches more than 200 million readers a day in 68 countries. 67-year-old cartoonist Charles Schulz still draws every comic strip himself. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Volume in shares 
201.01 Million 

NYSE Index 167.85 + 2.49 S&P Composite A. 306.05 T 5.08 Dow Jones Industrials 2,452.48 • 25.00 
Precious Metals 
Gold + $3.00 to $ 402.50/oz. 
Sliver+ 1.0¢ to$ 4.761/oz. 
ALMANAC 

eln 1940: The first section of the Pennsylvania Turnpike, 160 miles in length, was opened to the public at the stroke of midnight. 
eln 1949: Communist Party Chairman Mao Tse-tung raised the first flag of the People's Republic of China in a proclamation ceremony in Beijing. 
eln 1964: The Free Speech Movement was launched at .the University of California at Berkeley as students began to demand the right to engage in political activities on campus. 
eTen years ago: Soviet cosmo­nauts Valery Ryumin and Leonid Popov set a world space endurance record as they spent their 176th day aboard an or­biting "Salyut" space station. 
-~ 
Monday, October 1, 1990 The Observer page 3 

Anti-Abortion Activists 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Right to Life club staged a peaceful protest outside the South Bend abortion clinic last Friday. The group hopes to continue its protests in the future and raise community awareness on this issue. 
Post-graduate opportunities featured at fair 
By ANN MARIE gram began eight years ago, volunteer work should be con­HARTMAN and currently offers forty-five sidered as seriously as career News Writer volunteer organizations the op­placement and graduate 
portunity to present informa­school," said Roemer. 
A post graduate volunteer tion regarding their national The Peace Corps and the fair, offering seniors the and international service pro­Jesuit Volunteer Program are chance to speak with represen­jects. just two of the organizations tatives about volunteer oppor­"Volunteer work is not given which will be represented. 
tunities after graduation, will the credit it deserves," said About four or five of the service be held on October 2 at the Mary Ann Roemer, director of representatives will be Notre Centnr for Social Concerns. the fair and coordinator of se­Dame alumni. said Roemer. 
The fair, which runs from 7-nior and alumni programs for 10 p.m. in room 124 of the esc. the Center for Social Concerns. Although the program is in­
is designed for graduating se­"It is a valid option for all tended for graduating seniors, niors who may be looking to students and it encompasses all members of the student 
dnfnr employment for a year the Notre Dame philosophy of body are invited to attend. Last and volunteer their time to a community service. Even if se­year, nearly 400 seniors at­
ization. The niors haven't about it, tended the volunteer fair. 
Accounting Grads 


Why the Mega-Mergers have created an opportunity for you at BDO Seidman. 
You look forward to starting your career with an estab­
lished "name" firm where you can learn and grow by 
becoming immersed in several aspects of the clients'business. 
But you're a little apprehensive about your chances as a new graduate with a mega-firm. Can you fully develop your skills in a highly structured environment? Can you make apositive impact among the sheer numbers ofmulti­national staff? Or will you become just another cog in a giant wheel? 
BDO SEIDMAN still offers the opportunities for growth, lean1ing and advancement you hoped for when making your decision to pursue an accounting career. 
We're big enough (42 lJ. S. offices plus global coverage· through BDO Binder, our international firm) to present afast growth track, broad diversity of middle market clients and a high profile marked-by stability. Our management style and entrepreneurial atmosphere ensure talented graduates genuine opportunity for individual achievement and recognition. And you '11 regularly benefit from personal contact with and guidance by our partners. 
Find out about starting your career with BDO SEIDMAN, afinn that can offer you the potential 
BDO 
of a really "big" future. Contact your placement center now and arrange for an interview SEIDMAN 
Helping Clients Succeed~ 
lntemationaUy BOO Binder 
Harpsichordist to perform tonight at ND 
Special to the Observer Carnegie· Recital Hall, the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, Mark Kroll, harpsichordist of the University of California at the Boston Symphony Berkeley and Los Angeles, and Orchestra, will perform at the the San Francisco Early Music University of Notre Dame Society. He has been concerto tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington soloist with the Boston Hall. The concert is presented Symphony Orchestra, the by the University's Department Minnesota Orchestra, the of Music. Montreal Symphony, and the 
Included on the program are Philadelphia Orchestra, among two compositions by Francois others. Couperin (1663-1733). 
"Dishuitieme Ordr~" and His recordings include solo "Sixieme Ordre," and two com­harpsichord works of Couperin, positions by Johann Sebastian Duphly, Balbastre, Royer, J.S. Bach (1685-1750), "French Bach, Handel and Scarlatti; the Suite in B-Minor, BMV 814" complete sonatas for violin and and "Concerto in the Italian harpsichord of J.S. Bach; violin Style, BMV 971." sonatas of C.P.E. Bach and S. 
Considered one of the finest LeDuc; and the complete harsichodists of his generation, sonatas for flute and harpsi­Kroll has performed through­chord of J.S. Bach. out North and South America Kroll also has been an active and Europe. He is a noted au­proponent of the harpsichord thority on Baroque music and music of the 20th century, and has been a leading advocate of has premiered and commis­period instrument performance sioned many works. He appears for more than two decades. as harpsichord soloist on a re­
He has collaborated with cent video compact disc of de noted soloists and ensembles Falla's "EI Retablo de Maese and has appeared as a guest Pedro" with the Montreal artist at the Aston Magna and Symphony and Charles Dutoit. Tanglewood festivals. He has also served as program chair­His awards include a man of the first Boston Early Fulbright Award to lecture and Music Festival, artist-in-resi­teach in Yugoslavia, a grant dence at Lafayette College and from the Martha Baird the Music Academies of Zagreb Rockefeller Fund, and a Solo and Belgrade, and director of Recitalist Grant from the the Cambridge Madrigal National Endowment for the Singers. Arts. 
He has conducted numerous He is currently associate pro­
orchestral works, including the fessor of harpsichord and the­
first modern performance of a ory at Boston University, where 
recently edited symphony by he directs the Early Music 
C.P.E. Bach. Series and serves as chairman 
Kroll's many recital engage­of the department of historical ments have included the performances. 
You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 

EARN AND LEARN MARKET OPINION RESEARCH 
HIRING TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS-No Sales PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
Qualifications: type 25 WPM, enjoy talking with people, aYailable for enning and weekend shifts. All training proYided 
$5.00-$12.00/hour 
121 S. Niles Ave. Emporium Bldg. 2nd fl. 282-2754 

CLUB MEETINGS 
CLUB LEADERS: 
PLACE YOUR AD HERE! That's right! The Club Coordination Council sponsors this column to appear weekly in The Observer. To advertise your club's meetings/events and GUARANTEE that they get printed, just drop off your CLUB COLUMN entry to the Club Room (Rm. 207 in LaFortune) by Thursday at 5:00 and the ad will appear the following Monday. 
In addition, the Club Room is open Sunday through Thursday from 3:00 to 8:00 p.m. All clubs have mailboxes there as well as access to our phones and computer! Come check us out!! 
Any questions? Contact Jeff Stark at x3376 or call the Club room at x2086. 
A service of The Observer and the Club Coordination Council. 


page 4 

Pope, bishops to discuss priesthood 
(AP) -Pope John Paul II on Sunday opened a worldwide synod of bishops in Vatican City to discuss revitalizing the priesthood in the face of "burnout," challenges to celibacy and a shrinking num­ber of interested candidates. 
The pontiff inaugurated the month long assembly by cele­brating a solemn Mass in St. Peter's Basilica for some 1,000 priests, bishops and cardinals from around the world. 
The synod, an advisory body that meets to discuss major is­sues in the Roman Catholic Church, was called by John Paul to discuss the formation of priests. 
"Let me express the hope that your labors here will produce the abundant fruit which the ecclesiastical community is ex­pecting," the pope, clad in gold robes and miter, said in his homily. 
The synod is expected to fo­cus on the difficulty in main­taining the church's rules that priests be celibate and forsake marriage "in a world charac­terized by eroticism," as a working document put it. 
The rules themselves are not 
expected to be subjects for de­
bate, however, as the pope has 
shown no indication they might 
be changed. 
Several sexual scandals have 
embarrassed the church in re­
cent months. 
The archbishop of Atlanta, 
Eugene A. Marino, resigned in 
July following revelations of a 
two-year "intimate relation­
ship" with a young woman. In 
Newfoundland, Canada, a re­
port in July by a church-ap­
pointed commission said 
priests had sexually abused 
boys in the province for more 
than a decade. 
"Some priests question this 
.. 
Saint Louie University'e 
Academic Year In Madrid 
COMPLETE CURRICULUM: Engnsh, Spanish, Liberal Arts, Business & Admlnlstmtlon, TESOL, Sciences, Hispanic Studies 
SLU In Madrid Is a member ol AAIEOE 
Graduate Courses olfered during Summer Session 
Apply NOW for Spring, Summer nnd Fall 
More than 1,000 students In the Program. 
Contact: 
Saint Louis University In Madrid Saint Louis University 
Bravo Murillo, 38 Study Abroad Coordinator Edlflclo Gonzaga, Planta Baja Admissions Office Madrid 28015 Spain 221 North Grand Blvd. Tel: 593-3783 St. Louis, MO 63103 
Toll-free tel: 1-800-325-6666 
requirement lcelibacy) and some candidates leave forma­tion for this reason," the working document said. 
It noted that in public opin­ion, celibacy is "often incom­prehensible and ridiculed." A priest who accepts celibacy "is sometimes looked upon in a strange way," it said. 
"In this situation a priest can become totally isolated and misunderstood to the point of becoming deeply demoralized," it said. "In some cases, the cri­sis in the priestly identity can explain why priests leave the ministry." 
The Vatican cited "the phe­nomenon of burnout, from which priests of all ages seem to suffer. They live in situations marked by tiredness, resigna­tion, lack of creativity." 
The document lamented the shortage of priests and declin­ing number of candidates in some countries. 
"The shortage of priests car­
ries the further consequence 
that those older priests who 
are still active might become 
overburdened, thus making 
them subject to stress and to 
approach their work ... simply 
as functionaries," it said. 
According to the latest statis­
tics, there are 400,000 priests 
in the world, down from 
406,000 five years ago. In the 
United States, students in the 
last four years of seminary 
numbered 3,698 this year, 
compared with 7,855 in 1968. 
The 200 bishops at the synod 
included Cardinal Joseph 
Bernardin of Chicago, Cardinal 
James Hickey of Washington, 
D.C., Archbishop Daniel 
Pilarczyk of Cincinnati and 
Bishop John Marshall of 
Burlington, Vermont. 

-------~-~~----­
The Observer Monday, October 1 , 1990 

--~--~--------·~-­

U.N. seeks solutions to problems of children 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The summit, the largest gath­penalty for those under 18 -a lion children could be saved "Immorality was thus commit­World leaders ended an un­ering ever of international lead­practice in some U.S. states. each year by the additional ted in the name of children and precedented meeting Sunday by ers, was aimed at mobilizing Officials at the summit esti­funds, they said. evil was served for their alleged pledging huge resources to bat­governments to save up to 100 mated that achieving the decla­President Vaclav Havel of good." tle tho scourges of childhood million children from death by ration's goals would cost bil­Czechoslovakia said leaders "I saw Hitler waving in a poverty, and with harsh words disease and malnutrition in the lions of dollars, but the accord from Adolf Hitler to Iraqi friendly way to the fanatic little for those who commit atrocities 1990s. gave no monetary figure, and it President Saddam Hussein had girls of Hltlerjugend (Hitler in tho name of the young. The final declaration was relies on the goodwill of nations committed evil for the supposed Youth). I saw mass murderer 
Tho 72 kings, presidents and signed by Louis Sullivan, U.S. for contributions. benefit of children. Stalin kissing a child with the prime ministers concluded the secretary of health and human Summit organizers said "Thousands of times I have red Communist youth organiza­two-day World Summit for services. Earlier there had been World Bank president Barber heard people defending their tion scarf ... I saw Iraqi Children by adopting a declara­concern the United States Conable has pledged $500 mil­servitude to a hated regime by President Hussein patting chil­tion promising to fight the might not endorse the plan be­lion per year in a separate pro­the argument that they were dren of his hostages whom, as hunger, disease and illiteracy cause it urges ratification of a gram for health and education doing it only for their children," he now says, he is ready to have affecting children. pact that opposes the death for children. More than 1 mil-Havel told the assembly. shot," said Havel. 
FREE 
VIP BLUE AND GOLD CARDS 
TO:First 200 students (with I.D.) attending Notre Dame I Wichita State Baseball Game at Covaleski Stadium on Friday, October 5th at 8:30pm. 
TO:First 200 students (with I.D.) attending the Notre Dame I LSU volleyball game at the JACC on Saturday, October 6th at 7:30 pm. 
® 

MAXWELL HOUSE COFFEE VIP BLUE AND GOLD CARDS 
All benefits of a regular Blue and Gold Card holder (except the three drawings for athletic tickets) 
:13) 
Free Maxwell House Coffee I Notre Dame14 oz. coffee mug 
!) 

Free Maxwell House coffee at the Huddle during the month of November by showing VIP card and student I.D. 
® 

Free Crystal Light at the Huddle during the month of April by showing VIP card and student I.D. 
Free drawings for VIP members only throughout the year for: Chicago Bulls Basketball Tickets Free Limo Service and Dinner at Eli's Place for Steak in Chicago One free round trip ticket to Spring Break 


r·~:,...:.~,;. 



~A MUSICALLY 
British Prime Minister 
Margaret Thatcher noted the 
sufferings of children in war­
ravaged countries such as 
Mozambique and Lebanon. 
"These are evil things ... evil things done by wicked people," Mrs. Thatcher said. "They bring us hard up against the fundamental nature of human personality and character." 
U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar told the assem­bly, "There is no way we can reconcile humanity's remark­able progress with the continu­ance of the misery that counts children among Its victims." 
President Bush said children can be saved when adults "live up to our responsibilities." But, he said, "saving one child is a miracle." 
"We hold an unprecedented summit for those who will live in and lead a new world, their voices still faint and unheard," Bush said. "We are gathered to speak for the children of the earth ... to d statistics." 



I ILLUSTRATED PRESENTATION BY -
~ ~ 


JUDY GORMAN 
~ 
• ' 0
I 
I :J: 0 
I 
0 .••• • • ..,o 0 
0 
I 
I \Vednesday, October 3, 1990 7:00PM Fieldhouse Mall I 111 case of rain: Washington Hall I ~ 
~ The History of Women in Music 
~ Thursday, October 4, 1990 ~ 4:15PM THE ~­
"Judy Gorman is a wonderful singer and musician. She has taken her ~YEAR QF 
songs to an extraordinary variety of places in the USA and Europe. She '8'"' OFFICE OF


1 MEN1 
is always thinking how to lind the right phrase, the right song to hit the \\/ ' (lMPUS ~ 
MINISTRY

~ :::~ :::g·::..•· to 'hoot '""""w ""''htto ··::::::::·matt"·" wO I) -·--(j'fil1 
M 

~ Student Government ..., """"·'" •6>56 ,:1! Environmental Action Club ;;;_-,.-~ ~ 
-
...... llt•l»SUI 
R 

M FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLliC ­
~-~==-·--"""''____,____.:..:,..._____,_,,___~-=··--1·' 

-------~ -~-­

------~---·· -­
.-----------~---------------------~----­


CLUB TUESDAY Oct. I P:OOp.m. ~ 11.00p.m. Hagge~r Parlor folk singer Hartin Sikora  HOG ROAST OCT.l3 after Air Force Game tickets 5.00 in advance 'Z. 00 at the gale Parents and Alumni Welcome Tickets at McCandless Desk  


page 6 
'~.' ,,,,
Tooch>~ 
Give to the United Way. 
"' 
BUY IT FOR "THE CAUSE" 

Maple Lane BarberShop 2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's  


The Observer Monday, October 1 , 1990 
Reporters killed by gunfire 
(AP) -Two Salvadoran jour­nalists whose deaths were re­ported as traffic fatalities were apparently killed by gunfire, a church-related human rights agency reported Sunday, and it demanded a government inves­tigation. 
The bodies of the two re­porters, Pedro Martinez, 28, and Jorge Euceda, 38, were found in their car Friday on the Pan American Highway, 27 miles east of San Salvador. 
"There was definitely a crim­inal hand in this, but many things remain to be cleared up," said Maria Julia Hernandez, director of the Roman Catholic Church's Legal Aid office. 
Police reports blamed the deaths on a traffic accident. But Hernandez said her office had demanded an autopsy that showed Martinez had bits of 
Bodies found in black township 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -The mutilated and burned bodies of four whites were found in a black township that has been the site of several racial confrontations in recent months, police said Sunday. 
Police said they did not know if the attack was racially moti­vated and they made no ar­rests. 
Also Sunday, African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela called for an urgent meeting this week with the government to discuss the violence in the black townships around Johannesburg that has left about 800 dead since early 

Happy, Happy Birthday, Susan E. Lan 
October 1, 1967 ,. October 1, 1990 
ammunition in his left eye and cuts on the sides of his body. 
"They shot at the journalists and some bullet fragments lodged in the face, making him lose control of the vehicle he was driving," Hernandez said. 
The blood on the pavement and the absence of it inside the vehicle "could mean that the journalists were dragged out of the automobile and then beaten to death," she added. 
The deaths immediately aroused the suspicions of re­porters, who requested the as­sistance of Legal Aid. The news media and relatives of the vic­tims have called for a complete investigation of the deaths. 
Martinez was director of the magazine Semana (Week) and correspondent for the presti­gious Mexican magazine Proceso. 
August. Only two of the victims have been white. 
Police reported the deaths of three more blacks in two town­ships near Johannesburg, Tembisa and Sebokeng. 
The bodies of the four whites -three men and a woman ­were found next to a burned­out car in Khutloanong, said Police Maj. J9han Fouche. The townshipis 150 miles southwest of Johannesburg near the towns of Odendaalsrus and Welkom. 
The four apparently had vis­ited a bar in the township Saturday, police said. The bod­ies, which were badly mutilated with knives and then set afire, were found Saturday night, Fouche said. 
Local authorities had threat­ened to shut off electricity a week ago in Khutloanong be­cause residents were not paying their bills to protest living con­ditions, an official in Odendaalsrus said. 
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the power remained on after angry residents burned the homes of black town councilors in Khutloanong. But tensions remain high in the township, the official said. 
Euceda was a contributor to the Diario Latino, the most lib­eral Salvadoran daily newspa­per, and a professor in the journalism department at the National University of El Salvador. 
Martinez and Euceda became the 41st and 42-nd journalists killed in the decade-old civil war. The dead include 29 Salvadorans and 13 foreigners. 
Human rights watchdog groups estimate more than 73,000 people have died in po­litical violence in El Salvador since leftist guerrillas launched their war for power in October 1979 against a succession of U.S.-backed governments. 
Nearly half of the victims have been civilians suspected of leftist sympathies, slain by rightist death squads with links to the military, according to human rights groups. 

U.S.S.R., s. Korea establish diplomatic ties 
(AP) -The Soviet Union and Ho-joong, and Soviet Foreign ment of ties, but it would be Union, a long-time ally and tion, has also been improving South Korea will announce Minister Eduard Shevardnadze soon, possibly as early as friend of its rival North Korea, its relations with South Korea. plans Sunday to establish would make the announcement November. one of the last bastions of The Mosc9w government is ea­diplomatic relations through after their meeting at the Soviet diplomats said only hard-line Communism, resisting ger for enhanced trade and the United Nations, South United Nations. that the Soviet-Korean meeting the worldwide wave -of demo­economic cooperation to help Korean diplomats said. The diplomats, who spoke on would be "important." cratic movements. bolster the Soviet economy. 
The South Korean diplomats condition of anonymity, said no South Korea has been push­The Soviet Union, which is The two Koreas have been 
said their minister, Choi date had been set for establish-ing for ties with the Soviet undergoing political liberaliza-arch-enemies since the Korean peninsula was divided after World War II. They fought a 1950-53 war, and hundreds of thousands of troops are posi­tioned along their border.
a unique opportunity 
The move is expected to en­hance a South Korean bid to JOin the United Nations.
for 
Communist North Korea has opposed separate entry of the two nations on the divided
Math/Science peninsula and says separate 
admission would only reaffirm 
(Majors/Minors/ Aptitudes) division. 
North Korea and South Korea currently hold non-vot­ing observer status at the United Nations. 
The Soviet decision would For you and for the world. Peace Corps will leave China as North Korea's most powerful Communist ally. 
combine your education with training to pre­
But China, too, has been cau­
pare you for a volunteer position in: • Edu­
tiously improving its relations 
cation • Fisheries • Health • Agriculture • 
with South Korea and also is Forestry or other areas. You'll meet new peo­interested in South Korean in­ple, learn a new language, experience a new vestment and technology. South Korean diplomats have 
culture and gain a whole new outlook. And 
said they would only seek U.N.
while you're building your future, you'll be 
admission if they are certain 
helping people in developing countries learn 
that China, a permanent mem­
the basics of technological advancement. ber of the Security Council with veto power, would not oppose them. 
With the crumbling of the 
Soviet Bloc, more Eastern Wednesday, Oct. 3, 7:00pm, Center for Social Concerns European nations are seeking normalization of relations with
INTERVIEWS South Korea.
Wednesday, Oct. 31, Thursday, Nov. 1, (St. Mary's), Sign up at Career & Placement Services -Hesburgh Library For more info call: (800) 621-3670 


STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! ,.------This Week Only-------..
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT I 
: Reg. $8 Ma~~[~~ I 
r-------------------1 
t $5OFF ANY PERM : : Mast~[~~ 1 
~------------------~ 
No Double Discounts 
With Student I. D. 
We Trim Prices, Not Quality Walk-Ins Welcome 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters Universi Park Mall 277-3770 
Last yearwe madeover14,000students Wall Streetl}'coons in the... 


Enter this year's competition and you'II become a Wall Street tycoon, buying and selling stocks with your own $500,000 broker­age account. If you're the best trader at the end of this national stock market competition, you'll be cashing a check for a very real $25,000! 
Real Trading 
There is no better way to get hands-on stock market experi­ence. You're on the phone, call­ing your broker on a toll-free AT&T 800 Service line to buy and sell stocks. "Give me $100,000 worth of SARA LEE and another $50,000 worth of AT&T." You start with a fictitious $500,000 brokerage account. 
Cash Scholarship Awards 1st. ....................$25,000 2nd .....................10,000 3rd ......................7,500 4th ......................5,000 5th ......................4,000 6th ......................3,000 7th ......................2,500 8th ......................2,000 9th ......................1,500 10th......................1,000 

Co-sponsored by: 
Win atrip lor you and aguest compliments of the Holiday Inn Lucaya Beach Resort In Freeport, Grand Bahama, Bahamas and the Bahamas Ministry of Tourism. 
Build your portfolio from over 5,000 stocks listed on the OTC, New York, and American Stock Exchanges. Brokers will give you up-to-the-second quotes and exe­cute your orders. Monthly state­ments will keep you informed of your fortunes. 
Real Prizes 
Over $200,000 in total prizes will be awarded! This includes cash scholarship awards, trips to the Bahamas, and hundreds of monthly prizes from Cham­pion USA. More than 1,000 win­ners in all. You can win a cash scholarship award of $25,000. 

Imagine cashing that check! Top winners receive weekly national 
recognition from USA TODAY. You can follow the current standings of the A1~T Colle­giate Investment Challenge 
every Monday during the competition in the "MONEY" section of USA TODAY. 
Enter and Win 
The Third Annual AT&T Collegiate Investment Chal­lenge begins the morning of November I, 1990 and ends on February 28, 1991. Your tmding can lead to fame, a great Bahamas tan, and a $25,000 fortune. Call now to enter or to get your free brochure. 
Registration deadline: October 27, 1990. 
Entry fee only 
$49.95 
Call Today

The AT&TCollegiate Investment Challenge is produced and managed by Wall Street Games, Inc., 40 Grove Street, Wellesley, MA 02181. 
I 
I I page 8 The Observer Monday, October 1, 1990 
I Palestinian death toll rises during riot in the West Bank 
(AP) -The Palestinian death bances" and attempted to dis­toll in the uprising against perse the rioters. 
Israeli occupation climbed Arab journalists said above 1,000 Sunday with riot­Palestinian students at the vil­ing in a West Bank village and lage's high school hurled stones recriminations against Arabs at the troops. The Israeli patrol suspected of collaborating with fired some 15 tear gas cannis­Israel. ters into the school and, after 
Police gunfire in the village of calling reinforcements, raided Jamain killed one Palestinian the building. and wounded 21 others, four Parents of the students seriously, the army command rushed to the school, trying to said. Israel radio described the stop the troops, and clashed riot there as "severe." with them inside the compound, 
Three Palestinians were slain Arab reports said. Sunday on suspicion of collabo­Ahmad Shehadeh, 58, was hit rating with Israel, according to with two bullets in the head and Palestinian reports. The army the neck and was dead on ar­said it was checking the re­rival at Ittihad hospital in ports. Nablus, hospital officials re­
An Arab man was injured ported. Sunday while trying to hurl a The alleged collaborators bomb at a bus stop near the whose deaths were reported southern Israeli port city of Sunday included Adel Abu Ashdod, police said, and a Baber, 23, whose body was masked man tried unsuccess­found near the Gaza Strip fully to stab a Jew in refugee camp of Khan Yunis. Jerusalem's walled Old City. Arab reports said he was 
stabbed to death by uprising 

The unrest came after roads activists. into Israel were re-opened from lmad Abu Jubeh, 25, a sus­the occupied West Bank and the pected drug dealer, was Gaza Strip. The territories had stabbed to death in the Gaza been sealed ofT for 24 hours for village of Beit Lahiya, Arab re­Yom Kippur, the Jewish Day of porters said. Atonement. In the Gaza town of Rafah, 
The army said the violence in masked activists killed 53-year­Jamain, a village of 3,000 just old Hmaidan Kashta, firing south of Nablus, began after a several shots at him in the jeepload of paramilitary border school where he worked as a police "encountered distur-guard, Arab journalists said. 
(AP) -Ousted Prime Minister About 1,000 people jammed years in prison, under house Benazir Bhutto went before a the benches, aisles and window arrest or in exile after her fa­special tribunal Sunday in sills to watch the proceeding. ther, the late Prime Minister Pakistan and professed her in­Ms. Bhutto sat quietly during Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, was over­
nocence on corruption charges the hearing, listening to her thrown by the military in 1977 brought by the army-backed lawyers and occasionally scrib­and hanged two years later. caretaker government. bling notes. She was elected to Parliament Ms. Bhutto was ordered to The former prime minister in November 1988, in the first 
stand trial before the special has been ordered to stand trial free elections in more than a one-judge court on charges of on similar charges this week decade, and became the first misconduct and abuse of power before a special tribunal in the woman to lead a modern during her 20 months in office. eastern city of Lahore, the capi­Moslem nation. 
If convicted, she would have tal of Punjab Province and a President Ghulam Ishaq been permanently banned from stronghold of her political op­Khan, :using his constitutional politics in Pakistan. ponents. power, dismissed Ms. Bhutto's 
Thousands of slogan-chant­She could be disqualified government on Aug. 6 and in­ing well-wishers waited outside from the Oct. 24 parliamentary stalled a caretaker government the Sindh High Court building elections and banned from made up largely of her oppo­for Ms. Bhutto, who was politics for seven years if con­nents. dressed in a bright-pink tunic victed on any charge. Ishaq Khan accused Ms. and trousers and clutched a Justice Wajihuddin Ahmed Bhutto's government of corrup­prayer written by a supporter. promised the proceedings tion. incompetence and abuse 
The 37-year-old former prime would not hamper the cam­of power. minister said she did not rec­paign. He adjourned the trial The caretaker government ognize the jurisdiction of the until Oct. 10. says it has substantial docu­tribunals. The courts were The charges allege Ms. mentary evidence to back up originally established following Bhutto illegally used an Asia the charges. a 1977 military coup and res­Development Bank loan to hire urrected last month by the a foreign consulting firm to But many Pakistanis believe caretaker government. oversee a Karachi power pro­the charges have generated a 
"I have come here to show ject and allowed a British­wave of sympathy for Ms. the people the hollowness and based firm to export cotton at Bhutto. Most analysts say Ms. maliciousness of the whole pro­rates far below the interna­Bhutto and her party appear to cess," Ms. Bhutto said before tional market rate. be gaining strength and could entering the courtroom. The former prime minister emerge from next month's elec­"I have come here because I has denied any wrongdoing and tion as the single largest party. want to make a point -that accused the president and the "I cannot be disqualified be­the former prime minister and caretaker government of cause I have not done any­the leader of Pakistan's biggest launchi.Jlg a witch hunt against thing," Ms. Bhutto said. "I am political party is being dragged her, her government and her confident that we will be vindi­from court to court," she said. left-leaning Pakistan People's cated and with the support of 
After the speech A.P. Photo
"This is aimed at keeping us Party. the people will emerge victori­from fi 
htin the election." Ms. Bhutto spent nearl six ous." 
The Emir of Kuwait Sheik Jaber AI-Ahmad AI-Jaber AI-Sabah reflects after he delivered his speect'i at the United Nations General Assembly Thursday. His country was invaded by Iraq last
·It brings out the best in all of us. 
August. 

SPRINGBREAK SAILING MIAMI GA FACE VALUE... NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & BAHAMAS: 45 It Captained I'M DESPERATE! I NEED TO Psych... MIAMI Tkts STANFORD CALL 273-1364 
Yachts. Groups of 6 to 8. Seven TRADE TWO AIR FORCE Stud. $125 & up Days Barefoot in the Bahamas. STUDENT TIX FOR GA'S. PLEASE GA,s $250 & up 
Class 
RENZV IS FINALLY 21!

continued from page 13 $448.00 each Including HELP. I WILL BE FOREVER IN Can't Believe lt!!!!!!!!!!!l!l 
??????????? It's about time you dumb Accommodation and Meals. DEBT TO YOU. CALL MIKE AT 
MONTANA-! ToZahm-SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE! DO BLACK PATENT
1788. Be Hapy Jack and drink Miller t-800-999-7245 10AM-8P P.S. MOM WILL KILL ME IF I Need Miami Tix LEATHER SHOES REALLY HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
G.D.s DON'T GET THESE! Call Dave 1862 REFLECT UP? 
KERRIE ANN SHANNON 

Happy birhtday Colleen Kenney, Happy 21st B-day Keara!! ;:~ANK YOU, ST. JUDE. ??????????? LOVE,MTD from us on Holy Cross 2T I cant believe its finally here Happy Anniversary, V­ivi.J. 
I hope its a great day-You "Live for your smile, There will be a MODEL U.N. tor sale: SEATILE rd-trp plane tix­are the best sis! Die for your kiss" since 8/31 Jude plus Amalia ---meeting tonight at 7pm in Am. fall break. Save bucks. Caroline I love you! 10 whole months! 124 Hayes-Healy. All members are x4354 Amy -M Woo woo!! sdgf encouraged to attend. 

A.P. Photo

Reaching out 
Rev. Jesse Jackson holds hands with Russel Means, former official of the American Indian Movement, second from right, and Clyde Bellecourt, National Chairman of AIM, during the taping of Jackson's first television show, "The Jesse Jackson Show," Thursday in Washington. The show premiered this weekend. 
Ousted prime minister stands trial 

Business 
Monday, October 1 , 1990 page 9 
Budget woes impact colleges
Salaries rise for recent college grads 
BETHLEHEM, Pa. (AP) -rose by 7.4 percent to an av­Nursing graduates and other erage of $35,202. Chemical health workers just out of engineers received offers up college enjoyed the biggest 6.6 percent, to an average of . boost in salary offers, while $35,122. Aerospace engi­engineers gained slightly and neer~ received offers up 3.7 starting pay !'or journalists percent to an average of fell, a survey found. $30,509. 
The "Salary Survey," re­Starting salary offers to leased Friday by College mechankal, electrical and Placement Council Inc., was civil engineers also rose, but based on offers extended to not so much, the report said. students graduating between Offers to computer science Sept. 1, 1989, and Aug. 31. graduates rose 4 percent to The information was gath· an average of $29,804. ered from 428 career service oftices at U.S. colleges and Cutbacks by financial insti­universities. tutions tightened the job 
A continued shortage of market for economics and nursing graduates drove finance graduates, who saw their starting salary offers salary offers rise only 1. 9 up 13.5 percent to an aver· percent to an average of age of $28,270. Similarly, a $25,184. heavy demand for other health field graduates Offers to MBAs with non­boosted their average offer teehnical undergraduate de­to $27,436, a 12.4 percent grees and no previous work rise. experience went up 6.8 per­
Journalism was one of the cent to an average $36,175, few fields in which offers but offers to MBAs with d(ldined. The average offer technical backgrounds rose was $19.488, a 3 percent only 1.7 percent to an aver­drop from the previous year. age of $37,737. Consulting 
Engineors fared better. Of· firms made the most offers fers to petroleum engineers to this group. 
AP -State budget problems are leading to more crowded classes, fewer teachers and higher tuition at many public universities across the country this fall. 
"We're in a situation that's deteriorating very rapidly," said Richard Novak, director of state education policy and fi­nance of the American Associa­tion of State Colleges and Uni­versities. "What's happening in Northeastern and Midwestern states is spreading ... They are facing sharp cuts that will have untold impact on those institu­tions." 
Among examples found in an Associated Press survey: 
• Tuition at financially pressed New Jersey's nine state colleges rose 9.6 percent to 
19.4 percent this fall. 
• 
Rhode Island's three major state schools received $2.2 mil­lion less than they did last year because of state budget prob­lems, and tuition has risen about 9 percent to $2,046 for in-state students and $6,550 for out-of-staters. 

• 
The Florida Board of Re­gents has told the state's nine universities to come up with $49 million in cuts to help make up a $521 million state short­fall. Among the possibilities: 


Bush administration's promise of 'no new taxes' fades 
Top analysts say 'Red-ink Spendl"ng' l"s unavol"dable 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Once again, an 11th-hour budget compromise has delayed fiscal chaos. But the agreement that President Bush insisted on Sun· day was not "smoke and mir­rors" will still leave a gaping budget deficit. 
For it to work, the agree­ment's major initial impact must be psychologkal. It must give financial markets enough confidence that interest rates will begin a downward slide. 
Even though the plan an­nounced at a hastily summoned Rose Garden ceremony holds out the promise of deeper sav­ings down the road, it will not prevent the fiscal 1991 deficit from setting a new record for red-ink spending. 
Ironically, even as congres­sional and White House budget negotiators were putting the finishing touches on the deal to pare the federal deficit by $40 billion in the new fiscal year, budget officials were upping the estimate of the deficit by a similar amount. 
Just a wHek ago, budget nego· tiators were talking about a $250 million shortfall in the absence of spending cuts and tax increases. 
Now there is a budget agree· ment, but even its enactment ­by no means certain -would produce a defidt of some $254 billion. 
That's because on Sunday, Budget Director Richard Dar­man increased the estimate for the fiscal 1991 deficit to $293.7 billion. 
That's up from the $100 bil­lion he estimated in January and the $231 billion he esti· mated in July. He blamed eco­nomic performance and the spiraling costs of the savings and loan bailout for the latest upward revision. 
And that new figure assumes that oil retreats from its cur­rent $40-a-barrel to $21-$24; that war does not break out in the Middle East; and that the economy does not totter into a recession. 
So the final figures could be even worse. 
Compare the $253 billion level with the target in the Gramm­Rudman budget balancing law of $64 billion. 
It would take spending cuts of some $130 billion to get spending in line with that tar­get -not the $40 billion of the agreement or the $100 billion talked about over the past few weeks. 
Thus, the balanced budget that President Reagan once promised by 1983, and which the current Gramm-Rudman law required by 1993, is once again receding from grasp. 
Now, budget negotiators don't envision a budget in bal­ance until near the end of the century. 
"The markets are not looking at the Gramm-Rudman­Hollings targets as if that's re­ality, the ones in current law," Darman said. 
No one really believes "we're on a path to meet those tar­gets," he conceded. "That's been obvious for months if not more than a year." 
That's not to say the mea­sures contained in the compro­mise won't amount to a heavy dose of medicine that will be hard for many Americans to swallow. 
The pact calls for a 12-cent increase in the nine-cent gaso­line tax and sharply higher taxes on cigarettes and alco­holic beverages. It would make Medicare coverage more expen­sive and allows many govern­ment programs to rise only with the rate of inflation. 

The Bush administration and congressional bargainers announced that they had forged a compromise package of tax 
increases and spending cuts designed to make a five-year, $500 billion dent in the federal deficit. 
Taxpayers who earn more than $100,000 annually-either as individuals or couples-will have their deduction reduced by 3 percent. In addition, upper income taxpayers will pay more to support the Medicare program. The government now takes 1.45 percent from paychecks to finance Medicare up to an annual limit of $51,300. That ceiling will be increased to $73,000. 
The toughest cuts would affect the military: $10 billion in the new year and up to $182 billion in over five years. 
The federal gasoline tax would increase from 9 cents to 19 cents a gallon. All fuels would also be hit with a new tax based on their energy content. This would apparently provide another 2-cent increase for gasoline. 
The elderly and disabled, who now pay $28.60 per month for Medicare coverage of doctors' expenses, would see that premium increase to about $34.30. Overall, half the savings in benefit programs-$60 billion-would come from Medicare, split evenly between recipients and providers, such as doctors and hospitals. 
Luxury items ranging from furs to fancy cars would have new 1 0 percent taxes. Cigarette taxes would be increased gradually by 8 cents per pack from its current 16-cent level. Alcohol taxes would also go up. 
Farm support programs would be cut $12 billion over five years. Payments to civil servants and retirees would be reduced by $14 billion. 
For the wealthy and upper middle-class taxpayers, the package would have much same effect as an income tax rate in­crease by limiting the deduc­tions that can be claimed by those making more than 
$100,000 annually -either single taxpayers or joint filers. 
And the measure would im­pose new taxes on the sale of luxury items, including boats, expensive cars and high-end eliminating the first summer school term. 
• 
The City University of New York, faced with $42 million in budget cuts, is tightening en­rollment procedures, canceling 2,000 classes, dropping 670 adjunct teachers and cutting li­brary hours. This year the state reduced its contribution to CUNY's four-year colleges by $29 million, and the city pared its contribution to the commu­nity colleges by $13 million. 

• 
After three years of sharp funding increases, Maryland Gov. William Donald Schaefer has asked that higher educa­tion funds be cut $41 million during the current fiscal year because of a $150 million shortfall in state revenue. 

• 
Students staged a "Save UNC" rally this fall at the Uni­versity of North Carolina to protest cuts that have led to fewer classes and students sit­ting on the floor in others. 


The picture isn't gloomy ev­erywhere. 
Public campuses in Iowa, Louisiana, Utah, Idaho, Texas, New Mexico and Arizona are enjoying increased state appro­priations and relatively modest tuition increases. 
Appropriations at the Univer­sity of Iowa are up 9.6 percent; tuition rose 3 percent. 
With state financing in Louisiana up more than 11 per­cent, tuition at Southern Uni­versity didn't increase at all this fall. 
"We were losing renowned professors to other states," said Marvin Roubique, assis­tant commissioner for finance of the Louisiana Board of Re­gents. "We were not able to compete on a regional and na­tional level for professors." 
"I think the Legislature, the administration and the higher education community in general have recognized that we need to address the problems of higher education." 
But schools in at least 15 states -most of them on the East Coast and Midwest where state financial problems are most severe -are operating on restricted budgets that have led to program cuts, fewer and more crowded classes, and re­ductions in faculty positions. 
In a few states like New Jer­sey, students are being hit this fall with double-digit tuition in­creases not seen on most cam­puses since the early 1980s. 
AP 

electronic equipment. 
"It is not a phony smoke-and­mirrors deficit-cutting pro­gram," Bush said Sunday, vow­ing to take the package "to the American people." 
Just two days ago, he was telling Republican audiences in the Midwest that the case he would take to the American people was the one against Democrats in Congress. 
Taxes on luxury items to II ncrease 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­President Bush's budget deal with Congress would dig deep into American pocket­books. Medicare payments would rise, taxes on gaso­line, cigarettes, liquor and boats would go up. Farmers' subsidies would get cut and government services would shrink. 
"It's going to be very painful for a lot of people," said Senate GOP leader Bob Dole of Kansas, predicting a tough fight for enough votes to get the agreement past Congress. 
Proposed increases in­clude: 
• 
Taxes on gasoline and diesel fuel would more than double. 

• 
The federal tax on ci­garettes, now 16 cents a pack, will rise 50 percent by 1993. 

• 
Buyers of new cars, boats, jewelry and furs would pay a national sales tax on luxury goods. 

• 
Most individuals or fami­lies with in excess of $100,000 in annual income would pay more income taxes. 

• 
Taxes on beer, wine and other alcoholic beverages would rise although the ex­act figures remained to be decided. 


Government spending would be cut back in many areas. 
• 
Farm support programs would be cut $13 billion over five years. 

• 
Providers of Medicare services would be forced to absorb a portion of rising costs equal to roughly $32 billion over the next five years. 


-----~~--~~ -~ 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, October 1, 1990 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor~in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
Senate should support Coming Out Day 
Last week representatives from the Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC) asked the members of the Student Senate to recognize the upcoming National Coming Out Day. 
The Student Senate should vote to support this group's effort to raise awareness about the needs of gay students on our campuses and to fight harassment of any campus group, even if its mission is contrary to that of the University. 
Although at first one might find this proposition shocking at a Catholic university such as Notre Dame, the group's proposal is quite reasonable. They are simplyasking the communit_r. to step back for one day and consider what it is hke to be a homosexual in this environment. 
It is common knowledge that students who admit to· being gays or lesbians are subject to considerable ha­rassment on our campuses. We have to ask ourselves whether this is acceptable. As a community, we cannot condone the oppression of a group such as GLND/SMCbecause their behavior is not what many deem correct. 
"Recognizing that gay and lesbian students on this campus often feel the oppression that comes from misinformation and misunderstanding about homo­sexuality, we call upon the entire student body of this University to stand up against any form of discrimination, harassment, or violence against homosexual persons," states the GLND/SMC proposal.
This proposal is not about the recognition of GLND/SMC as a club at Notre Dame, it is about whether we can allow a group of people to be constantly harassed on our "Catholic" campus. GLND/SMC is asking the Student Senate to recognize this day in the hopes that open discussion might lead to greater understanding between homosexuals and those who oppose homosexuality. 
In order to promote better understandin~ of the needs of gays and lesbians at Notre Dame and Samt Mary's and to end harassment on campus, the Student Senate should pass a resolution supporting National Coming Out Day at Notre Dame on Oct. 11. 
In addition, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity should use this day to suspend negative attitudes about homosexuals and listen to the concerns of the students from GLND/SMC. Regardless of Church doctrine and personal beliefs, the bottom line is that homosexuals are human beings and deserve to be treated as such on our campuses. 
DOONESBURY 
LETTERS 

Females best fill presidential role 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing to address the two responses to my letter enti­tled, "SMC Needs a Female President" (The Observer, Sept.13). Ms. Charlotte West poses three points on behalf of Dr. Hickey's defense, all of which I was already well aware. 
She first asserts that Dr. Hickey worked his way up the ranks of the Saint Mary's Biology Department. Fine. She then points out that Dr. Hickey went from vice, to acting, to president of Saint Mary's. Fine. She then affirms that Dr. Hickey is a staunch advocate of women's education. Wonderful. She then reprimands me for making snap judgements and generalizations regarding the fitness of officials. 
My complaint is not an attack of Dr. Hickey personally. The point is that he is a man, and no man can effectively fill the position of president at an all­women's college better than a woman. A man cannot em­pathize with the concerns and the aspirations of a female col­lege student as well as a woman. 

As a matter of fact, the September-October edition of In View, a magazine for college women, reported that a ground-breaking study done by Elizabeth Tidball, Ph.D. showed that the more female faculty at a school, regardless of whether it is co-ed or single sex, the more likely female atudents are to go on to post-graduate accomplishments. 
The study clearly shows that having female authority figures employed by the college affects female students in a positive manner. Thus, although I do not believe the term "faculty" encompasses the job Of presi­dent, I feel that, if a female were in the highest ranking position of Saint Mary's, more students would aspire to post­graduate accomplishments. 

Moreover, the article also af­firms that 74 percent of all women's college presidents are women themselves. It upsets me that Saint Mary's is among the 26 percent of male-headed women's colleges. Saint Mary's claims to be a Catholic, women's college, and yet its president is not a member of the clergy and he is male. The situation is simply embarrass­ing. 
Imagine the reaction of the public presidents if Morehead and Howard Colleges (two all negro schools) were white. It just wouldn't be scrupulous. 
Professor Bruno Schlesinger argues in his letter (The Observer, Sept. 20) that Dr. Hickey must be a qualified president because he received support from the entire Saint Mary's community. Fine. But may I remind him of the refer­ence to Galaudet University in my first letter? The board, with seven hearing and five deaf members, elected a hearing president, and the students accepted a hearing president, since the University was established in 1864. In 1989, the students finally decided that this was an injustice, and they revolted. They probably didn't challenge it earlier because they didn't even think about it since they are used to being treated as second class citizens. Off the top of my head, I can think of several behaviors which manifest the oppression of women in today's society. Are we going to accept this subjection? 
Professor Schlesinger also claims that the call for a female president smacks of sexism. I am not convinced, however, that this is a sexist issue. Is the admissions staff sexist because it only admits females? The debate over who is better qualified has got to be, among others, a gender issue. A woman makes a better leader for an all women's college than a man. Men make better foot­ball players than women. The equal rights amendment did not pass because men and women are not exactly the same. That's just the way it is. 
Perhaps the Saint Mary's community would have chosen differently if its members had heard my a,rgument. Hopefully, the community will take my ar­gument into consideration when it is time to elect a new president. 
Devon Marcuson Off-Campus Sept. 24. 1990 

Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

$33 A BARReL. AND fA/& 7HINK 7H&ANSW&R. 15/WAlffAL. RISING! AN{) IAJrrH NO 70 PliOPt&'S PATRJ(Jf/SM-7D MAKE INCRCAS£3 /NOUR FIX&[) -n-IEM FW.-(3()()/) Al3aJTEJe!NG ClJSTS! UN/VE:R!IAL. P&-GOUGW/ 'IOU HAVf51WY QU/JI,MS 6000. 7ROU3UM IS 8ACJ<! AF301.JT -n-tiS !</NO a=.APPRIJACJi?! IL./K& 
YOU, KID.

\ ~ 
10-/ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It is important not to accept easy answers. Easy answers are always the wrong answers. Questions remain, answers change.' 
Elie Wiesel 

---· ------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------~ 
-
Viewpoint 
Musicians hindered from public performance 
Dear Editor: 
The administration is at it again. This summer, the Office of Student Activities started a new policy against campus musieians. It is now impossible for bands consisting of students to advertise their off-campus performances. I 
While I sat bored ofT my skull during summer school, St. Paul and the Martyrs were fined for distributing niers advertising a show; it seems that when most students went home for the summer, University officials came to the conclusion that these bands were contributing to the delinquency of minors, publicizing the use of alcohol. It is apparent that some of these wise guardians have decided to play the role of a Big Brother, and prevent musicians on cam­pus from performing in front of their peers. 
In the past, bands could ad­vertise their services in a hap­hazard fashion--their pleas to hang fliers rested upon some secretary in LaFortune to deem them appropriate decorations for the walls of O'Shag. St. Paul and company were dismayed to learn that over the summer the rules had changed, and as talented as they were, notices of their performances were to be kept as hush a subject as on­campus drug deals. Of course, I should have seen this coming, as I gave them a fair shake last April. 
I performed with the band Mr. E last spring. After receiving a warning note pertaining to Mr. E's unauthorized fliers, the bassist attempted to get their fliers approved. His request was rejected, for the name of the drinking establishment which had hired Mr. E was too large; "Shenanigan's" was printed in 1" tall letters, while the name of the band was 3" tall. The fliers were all hu­morous, and not offensive-they even fit the requirements of posters as per that handbook of wisdom, DuLac. 
Knowing that the only way to stay solvent (and pay off the practice PA and the sound men) would be to encourage students to come, regardless of the ad­ministration's threat, these fliers were posted, and the band was fined $150-if the band didn't pay, each one of the members would be fined the same amount to his student ac­count; that's nearly $500 which goes unmentioned in DuLac. 
Realizing that Mr. E .was in no position to plea-bargain with the administration, we gave in to their demands for extortion. However, I wrote a letter in re­sponse to Elizabeth Pawlicki, our esteemed Assistant Director of Student Life; the chief claim of this letter was that the University was g1vmg preference to some drinking ac­tivities over others (such as the immensely successful Hogstock, featuring posters of a Hog fill­ing a beer mug from a keg). 
Additionally, I vented my frustrations about the use of Student Activities money which we all pay to bring in lukewarm musicians from Chicago (as ev­idenced annually at Theodore's and outside LaFortune Sept. 
15. The University has formed no standard policy towards paying gifted musicians from our own campus, as we have seen with the over $1000/gig given to The Groove, and zilch to anyone who performs at The Coffee Shop. Ms. Paulicki's response to my observations may have well have been expressed as silence. 
The issue is no less dead this year, now that campus bands have been outlawed. I person­ally resent the University's fence-sitting position. On the one hand, they desire that stu­dents become involved with so­cial activities which do not re­volve around the consumption of alcohol. Then, instead of a friendly atmosphere where mu­sicians like myself can perform with one another in front of our peers, they threaten to dissolve this wholesome activity with 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing to express my sheer delight at the fact that, after a long and suspenseful wait, Sacred Heart Church has finally reopened not just as a place of religious worship but also as-ta-da!-a Christian radio station. 
Imagine my total security, as I am now able to flee from my loneliness and spiritual confu­sion by stopping by Sacred Heart for a few minutes each afternoon to lose myself in the heavenly tunes of the Gregorians' latest-Kick Out the Chant. Wow, like lnstamatic! 
Not only has the prudent and wise University removed from my tired shoulders the burden of making messy moral deci­sions, but they have also taken care of the inconvenience of personal prayer. What a relief. Now all I do is find a pew close to the speakers, kick down a kneeler, and surrender to the mood. 
My parents will be so happy when I tell them. 
Christopher Strathman Off-Campus Sept. 26, 1990 

extremely harsh economic This brings us to some critical during any other time of the measures, under which any questions we should all be week. normal student would be asking. For example, is it fair And the Coffeehouse, which is crushed. that the Office of Student a step in the right direction, has 
Remember, the same people Activities sponsors over $5000 shown how little the University that gave us the alcohol-free worth of bands outside is committed to spend in order SYR also gave us less of them. LaFortune, when 7000 students to fulfill our best needs; I have These administrative peers are illegally tailgating alongside always enjoyed such an would realize that the bands the alums on Red Field? The intimate setting, excellent light are not drawing people to the only people I saw chowing music and reading, and would bars; the students would fill the down the food inside and out­like it to be more accessible bars regardless of whether or side of LaFortune had arms full more often, kind of like a toned­not bands were performing. of purchases from the down LaFortune food sales. Where else does one get to bookstore, obviously marking Maybe we shouldn't expect our socialize with so many other them as non-members of the Coffeehouse to be like authentic people than at a bar or party? student body. One of my coffeehouses in big cities, even 
Bands will continue to friends, who had pestered the though the University already perform at bars because that's office of Student Activities for has what equipment it would the only regular forum for ex­permission to play outdoors, at need to run one, along with pression where they can seek his own expense, was given the plenty of money (like $10,000) recompense for their run-around. Come Saturday, to drop on Adworks and other equipment expenses and upon pressing administrators failing campus businesses. receive well-deserved for a straight answer, he was admiration from their peers. denied. Please give my ideas some And advertisements are Concerning Theodore's, the thought, then pester our admin­encouraging our friends to see architect obviously did not con­istrators with questions such as the band, not to drink. Feeble sult with students before fash­these. After all, we're all paying attempts at creating the desired ioning a great dance floor, members of the Notre Dame social atmosphere on campus, bathed in a tremendous stream family, and there's no reason like Theodore's and the of light from the grand hall of why our fearless peers have Coffeehouse, adequately LaFortune; the organization of anything to hide from us. demonstrate the University's that social space is all wrong, inability to address the situa­with the positioning of an ex­JeffSepeta tion as well as other universi­pensive expresso machine in an Cavanaugh Hall ties have. area inaccessible to people Sept. 25, 1990 
Fight song needs further thought 
Dear Editor: about one-third of the words. I has too many syllables and 
Miss Hansan's editorial about noticed freshman year that sounds awkward. "Rally kids of the Victory March (The when the band would play the Notre Dame" would fit into the Observer, Sept. 21) appeared to entire Victory March, the stu­melody of the song, but it does be well thought out. Miss dents would often try to sing not have the right sound to it Hansan addressed what she the chorus before the band had either. I don't think that any­said were the "three main reached that part of the song. body on this campus would points" against changing the It may be easy to change the want the word "kid" in our fight song. However, she failed to chorus, but if you only change song. Any other synonym for realize that there is a fourth that one line, the song becomes the word "children" has more point. inconsistent. The first line of than one syllable and thus 
She stated that changing the the Victory March would say, sounds as awkward as words from" ... while her loyal "Rally sons of Notre Dame" "children." sons are marching onward to while the chorus would say, Anyone who tries to change victory," to " ... while her loyal "while her loyal sons and something like the Victory sons and daughters march on daughters march on to victory." March should look at the entire the victory," makes sense, be­Why would only the sons have thing before making a change. cause "this alternate phrasing to rally if both sons and Sometimes making changes is fits perfectly in to the melody of daughters marched on to vic­harder than it may appear on the song." She made what tory? the surface. seems to be a common mistake. Unlike the last line of the The Victory March is made up chorus, there is no easy substi-Chris Biebel of more than just the chorus. In tute for the first line. Saying Grace Hall fact, the chorus contains only "Rally children of Notre Dame" Sept. 27, 1990 
Senior Rap-Up groups help build new friendships 
Dear Editor: groups get together once a only makes feelings more real, 
No one wants to hear advice month; you take turns making but it makes you become better from someone who "was in dinner, and then the fun begins. acquainted with yourself. your position once," but. when After dinner, you and approxi­I can't emphasize enough 
you look back, wasn't your mately ten of your classmates what a great opportunity Senior mother always right? Well, get to talk about whatever is Rap-Up groups are. There is no even though I'm not your important to you. In the pro­one type who signs up for mother, I feel as if I can speak cess, you gain a lot of perspec­them-it's not esc "groupies," from the voice of experience in tive. it's not student government at least one instance-Senior Not only are you exposed to and, no, you cannot take it as Rap-Up groups. So many people the string-tie preppies, but also community service hours. It's have said to me, since grad­those people who have doubts completely voluntary and uation, "I really wish I had about Notre Dame, why they people want to be there, so done a rap-up group" or "What came and what they got out of conversation is never strained were those again?-Yeah, I what were supposed to be "the or dull. think I could have gotten into best four years of your life." Not Don't miss out. You can sign that." Don't blow it, seniors. only are you .exposed to up at the Center for Social 
Seriously, this is your chance different attitudes (and you Concerns. to really relax, get to know thought all Domers were the some of the members of your same), but you get the chance Carolyn Rey class and a faculty/staff mem­to verbalize those feelings Notre Dame Class of '90 ber as well. Senior Rap-Up you've experienced. That not Sept. 26, 1990 
-
...--------~~------~--------------~--~---~-------------------­
-
Accent 
page 12 Monday, October 1 , 1990 
Voices of Faith
YOLANDA KNIGHT appearances that the Choir 
accent writer makes, Mcintosh feel that the 
Voices of Faith should be "Lord, I'm available to you/ granted more funds and that a My will I give to you/ I'll do greater response from the 
Gospel Ensemble
what you say dol Use me Lord members would be received if to show someone the way/And the choir received more support enable me to say/ My storage is from the University. empty/and I am available to The plans for the future of the you." consisted of roughly 18 people, through hopeful messages ac­actually participates as opposed Voices of Faith include "getting 
These words, when sung by liberally speaking." The choir companied by soulful sound, to watching them for better on the musical level," the Voices of Faith Gospel in three years has grown to providing solace for the spiri­entertainment. Mcintosh states both vocally and instrumentally, Ensemble, encompass not only comprise 80 Notre Dame stu­tual listener. According to that "it gives us a good feeling to enable the choir to compete the primary purpose of the dents on record, with about 60 Mcintosh, gospel music pro­of social and spiritual uplift­in competitions locally and choir itself, according to Leroy active participants, to become vides a different way of looking ment to share with those of our perhaps nationally, Mcintosh Mcintosh, but the true meaning one of the fastest growing or­at the world and at personal own cultural tradition." said. of being a Christian as well. ganizations on the Notre Dame experiences, for it portrays God Here at Notre Dame, the However, to bring the mes­The Voices of Faith can be seen campus. as an active healer as opposed Voices of Faith performances sage of the Gospel to as many tonight at 8:30 p.m. at the Cen­The primary goal of the to a remote being. include an annual concert and people as possible remains the ter for Continuing Education as Voices of Faith is to "minister to two performances at Sacred primary goal, along with creat­part of the Multicultural Fall others through music" in the Today the Voices of Faith Heart Church. However, Mcin­ing unity through the spirit Festival. gospel tradition that transcends utilize the rich, cultural tradi­tosh states that the perfor­within the choir itself. Accord­
The Voices of Faith began music itself. It embodies the tion of gospel to encourage fel­mances for the University are ing to Mcintosh. "We must take ministering in 1980 as an culture and the spirituality of lowship with other Christians in sporadic and usually occur only care of the spiritual goals first, "outlet for Christians with the church which has always the South Bend community, as at "cultural" events. and they will be the means to backgrounds in different reli­been a strength of the Mrican­well as to enrich the spiritual Mcintosh feels that the Voices other ends." gious traditions" with a mem­American community. lives of those at Notre Dame. of Faith is considered more an The Voices of Faith Gospel bership of roughly 15 people, Gospel music is rooted in the In the South Bend community, ethnic organization than a Ensemble welcomes members 
according to Mcintosh, co­songs of freedom sung by slaves the Gospel Choir performs in Christian one, and this attitude of all cultures and religious de­president of the choir. centuries ago on Southern Baptist, Pentecostal and Mrican is reflected in the budget re­nominations. Dues are $5 per Mcintosh recalled that "as a plantations. It emphasizes Methodist Episcopal churches, ceived from the Student Activi­semester, and students can join freshman [1987 -88], the choir spirituality and improvisation where the congregation ties Office. For the number of at any time. 
'Countering the Conspiracy to Destroy Black Boys' 
Kunjufu offers solutions to problems with American educational system 
YOLANDA S. LAWLER Chicago. Kunjufu has silence allow institutional racist and irrelevant controlling emotions. Finally, accent writer published several other books, racism to continue," of perpet­curriculum and the lack of male domination and the including "Motivating Black uating a system that is crippling quality and continuity of the macho image, which is learned 
Jawanza Kunjufu, a promi­Youth to Work," "Developing Mrican-American boys. teaching staff. during male seasoning, nent Mrican-American educa­Positive Self-Images in Black "Fourth Grade Failure Syn­Kunjufu recalls being in­"becomes a dehumanization tion consultant, has addressed Children," "Children are the drome," the second chapter, formed by principals that they process of indoctrinating you the issue of the miseducation of Reward of Ufe," and "To be discusses the negative impact place their best teachers in the [Mrican-American boys] Mrican-American boys. Popular or Smart: The Black that the public school system upper grades of primary school against yourself." 
His book, "Countering the Peer Group." has on the Mrican-American because that is where the most Conspiracy to Destroy Black "Countering the Conspiracy to boy, as seen by his own eyes as undisciplined children are. Chapter Four, "Counter-con­Boys," enlightens and suggests Destroy Black Boys" is divided he travelled through America Kunjufu maintains that "This spiracy Strategies," emphasizes solutions to the problem of into four chapters. Chapter conducting workshops. During 'band aid' approach is part of the importance of culture. Mrican-American boys being One, "The Conspiracy to De­these travels Kunjufu began to the conspiracy." Kunjufu expresses the need in "turned off" by the American stroy Black Boys," outlines and see and respect the subtlety of Thwe third chapter, "Male the Mrican-American commu­education system. discusses the racist oppression the conspiracy. Seasoning," articulates the nity for the development of or­
Kunjufu, who has given perpetrated by white males. He draws a picture of a boy, socialization of MriCan­ganizations which address the lectures at Notre Dame, brings Kunjufu goes further and ex­Darryl, who upon finishing two American males, which needs of Mrican-American boys 
an Mrocentric consciousness amines the implications of insti­years in Headstart, epitomizes contributes to high dropout and breaks the conspiracy to wherever he goes. The founder tutional racism. He also ac­an eager first-grader who rates and other forms of self­maintain the status quo, which of Mrican-American Images, a cuses "white liberals who deny 'idolizes his teacher and loves destructive behavior. The is European-American male publishing company based in being racists, but through their learning as much as he loves pervasiveness of gender roles supremacy. 
his dump truck. A few years which stereotype the kind of Kunjufu also encloses a list of later this same child likes his behavior that boys are do's for parents and educators teachers a little less, has lost supposed to exhibit is one when working with an Mrican­that love of learning and detriment of male seasoning. American boy. He closes with clutches his dump truck a little Parents also perpetuate male an optimistic poem from Haki more closely. seasoning by running their Madhubuti, who was a personal 
Kunjufu also addresses the household in a sexist fashion. mentor to him during his for­disproportionate amount of According to Kunjufu, male mative years and taught him Mrican-American boys who are seasoning also takes place in that service to his community recommended for and placed in the streets, where "playing the was essential. special education programs. dozens," a game that requires a This paperback, which retails He expands on the problems quick mind and tongue to point for $4.95, is a must for parents, with public schools, by pointing out the negative aspects of a educators and mentors of out the lack of able teachers, a peer's peronality, requires Mrican-American boys. 
In Kunjufu's book "Countering the Conspiracy to Destroy Black Boys", he describes the process by which enthusiastic pre-schoolers (right) become apathetic and disinterested as early as the fifth grade (above). 


...

-
I 

The Observer accepts classtfieds every busmess day I rom 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3t4 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary·s office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds prepaid The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces 
NOTICES  NO STUDENT AND HIS WIFE LOOKING FOR SMALL APARTM.  I Need GA's for AIR FORCE, MIAMI, and  GA'S OR STUDENT. CALL KATE ATX1330.  Need Student and GA's to Air Force. Call Aaron at 3264.  I need Penn St. and Miami stud. tix. Call Dan X1407  
NEAR CAMPUS.CALL 6-BPM  PENN STATE. Also need stud. for  ----·-------------------------------­ 
TYPING AVAILABLE  ASK FOR PAUL.2334425  PSU & Miami. PLEASE call Beth at  I NEED FOUR (4) PENN STATE  I Need STANFORD and MIAMI tix,  
287-4082  288-0597  GA'S FOR MY LONG-LOST UNCLE  student or GA's.  Please call Betsy  WILL TRADE:  
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 237-1949  FOR SALE  ND Alum needs 3 GA tix for Penn St. Call Jeff Walsh collect (602)  AND COUSINS. IF YOU CAN HELP MY NOV. 16 REUNION, CALL JEFF 0. AT X 1068. THANKS  at 4858.  Have 2 Stanford GA's Need 2 Air Force GA's Betsy 284-4001  
257-5971,  NEEDED: 4 AIR FORCE GAs or  
JUSTSAYNOI Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of ND ave. & Howard. 233-2342  Double papason couch $100.00 O.B.O. call 273-0419 after 5:00p.m.  II am-Bpm, M-F. NEED 2 STANFORD GA's. CALL x2094  I need two Stanford GA's BADII Parents will take back tuition if I don't come through!!llllll Call Mike X3506  STUDS. FOR SALE: Stanford Stud. Michelle x4071  Need two tickets to NO vs. USC game, student or GA's. Call Betsy at x3899.  
LOST/FOUND •••••• REWARD••••••••  Two round-trip tickets to SEATILE for sale--$230 each. Leaves South Bend on 1 0/20 after the Miami game and returns to SB on 10/27. Call Carol or Julie at  NEED 2GA'S FOR STAN AND AIRFORCE MIKE-1625 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Future Domer  Need 2 Miami GAs Big$$ Angie x21 10  Need GNSTUDS for Purdue, Stanford, Air Force. Call Mike 271-8795 ••••NEEDED•••• 6 AIR FORCE GA's  I NEED AIR FORCE TICKETS!II NEED MIAMI GA'SIIIIIIIIIII JUST WON THE LOTIERY--­ 
My license was lost/stolen last 9/20 at The Commons. I need it back so I can write checks, drink etc ... It is a Pennsylvania license. PLEASE call Beth Bolger (the name on the ID) with ANY information. 288-0597 FOUND AT MICHIGAN GAME­BRO. PETER'S BUSHNELL BINOCULARS-CALL X1407  x4937. I HAVE GA'S AND STUD TIX TO EVERY GAME. CALL TOM AND LEAVE B.O. #3770 FOR SALE: 12-inch Black & White Portable TVIII Excellent condition. Call x120B and leave a message for Paul. Will take best offer before midnight, Oct. 12th.  Needs Miami Ticket--G.A. or Student. She's my little sister and has only seen Navy and S.M.U. Please help her see a real game. Call Elizabeth at X2830. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ IIIII!!HELP!!I!II I NEED TWO STUD. TIX FOR AIR FORCE FOR ADORABLE UTILE BROTHER!! CALL PATSY X4765  HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL 273-1 364 NEED MIAMI TICKETS???? ME TOO 4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami fans that need humbling. 272-8954 Amy  PLEASE CALL NOW! #284-5038 Will trade 2 Air Force GA's for 2 Stanford GA's or buy them outright. Dennis x2384 Need 4 Stan. tix Bob x2384 You should sell me 4 MIAMI GAs  I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKSIll PLEASE CALL--I'M DESPERATE CALL CATHY AT 273-9624 I NEED STUD OR G.A. TICKETS FOR PENN STATE. CALL PAUL AT 271-9950. I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S X1639  
LOST: TEMORARY ID &  DINING TABLE & 4 CHAIRS;  CALL BRIAN AT X1426  immediately! Pete x1745  Need PURDUE GAs and Stud tix.  
VALIDINE. PLEASE CALL WILL  COMUPTER DESK & HUTCH;  TICKETS WANTED:  PLEASE HELPII!  Please call Darrell at 283-3302.  
AT 3028. THANKS IIIII! LOST: Yellow Folder- CITIZEN PREMIERE DAISYWHEEL PRINTER; MOVING BOXES. CALL 227-5957  10 GA'S FOR AIRFORCE 4 GA'S FOR PENN STATE  I NEED STANFORD GA'S CALL ERIK AT X20BB. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  I need 2 G.A's to the Air Force Game. Name your price. Call Bob at x358B.  I have 1 stud. ticket for all home games except miami. Call Mark at 273 -1659.  
contains very important  DINING TABLE & 4 CHAIRS;  NEED STANFORD and MIAMI  I NEED 4 MIAMI TICKETS  
material. .. RewardI Call Jay Johnsrud at 1581 . LOST: Yellow Folder- COMPUTER DESK & HUTCH; CITIZEN PREMIERE DAISYWHEEL PRINTER; MOVING BOXES. CALL 277-5957 For sale: Bianchi Nuovo 12 speed  CALL X1650 AND LEAVE NAME, PRICE AND PHONE IF NO ONE IS HOME. NEED AIR FORCE Tix tGA1ST  TICKETS --STUD'S and GA'S Call Mary at 3816. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED-TIX MIA-N.D. GAME  STUDENT OR GA'S CALL 277-9452 NEED 3 AIR FORCE GAs Call Betsy X3771  SEND MY GRAMPA TO THE STANFORD GAME AND MAKE HIS LIFE COMPLETE. HE NEEDS TWO TICKETS. MEG.4707  
Contains very important material.  racing bike. Mavic rims, Shimano  PATII x4308  CALL 800-323-7687  *********HELP*********  
REWARDIII Call Jay Johnsrud ... 1581  600 components. In great shape. $250 or best offer. Call Bob at x358B.  KELLE x4420 I NEED 1 MIAMI STUD  $$ALUM NEEDS 4 TICKETS$$ FOR STANFORD, CALL COLLECT  Help young senior enjoy 21st B­Day-family coming--NEED PENN ST. TIX--5 GAs & 2 STUD TIX-Call  NEED STANFORD STUD TIX??? CALLx3677  
LOST: 14 k gold rope chain bracelet on Stepan Football field. GREAT Sentimental Value. If found, please  AWESOME CAR FOR SALEIIIIIIIIIIII 1980 Honda Civic HB, 4 spd, amlfm cass, GOOD condition,  FOR MIAMI OH. FRIEND CALL TAD#1718 STANFORD TICKETS NEEDED! ••• 3 GAs, or 2 GAs & 1  (416) 851-0187, AFTER 8:00P.M., RENO. NEED 4 STANFORD TIX. CALL DENNIS COLLECT 914-294-6546  x260711 NEEDED: ONE G.A. OR STUDENT TICKET FOR AIR FORCE. CALL SUSAN x2515  PERSONALS hiag  )  
contact Cara at x3847.  and last but not least..34 MPGII  marriade stud tix •••  AFTER6PM.  
$650 CHEAP CHEAP 259-9638  call Patty 255-5771  Wanted:t-2 Penn GAs + 2 GAs for  ROLL WITH IT, BABY  
L...--w_A_N_Te_o_____.l  f"----------11cl<fis--­ NEED 2 GA's for STANFORD,  BUY, SELL OR TRADE AIR FORCE GA TIX FOR STANFORD GAME.  any homegame #2771 I NEED STANFORD & MIAMI  we've moved  
AIR FORCE, and PENN STATE.  CALL LAUREN 273-1380  STUD TIXS -LISA X3BB2  BALLROOM DANCE CLUB  
BABYSITIER WANTED: Looking for someone to watch 2 small children in my home. 4-8 hours a week.(flexible) wage negotiable. Transportation required. Need Money ??? Local Book Distributor Needs Help. Flxbl Hours. Many Opportunities. Call Mr. Turner 288-1002 12-5 M-F  I REALLY NEED 2 MIAMI G.A.'s!l good $$$-call Jacquie @ x4986 NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717­297-2192. Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games. Call tom x1597.  Call Pete x-1097 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HELP MEl NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S & MIAMI GA'S OR STUD. CALL SAM X4013 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  I need 9, yes 9 Miami Ga's Karen x4806 FATHER GRADUATED ND 48 YEARS AGO AND HAS NEVER BEEN BACK. NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL COLLECT (404) 640-0464 BOB LYNCH. i Have Penn St. Students best offer 273-1 364  HAVE 2 PURDUE, 2 A. F., 2 STANFORD G.A.'S. WANT 2 PENN. ST. G.A.'S. CALL NICK OR TRACEY X7733. NEED 2 OR 4 AIR FORCE GA CALL JOHN X1850 HUSSEIN TO VISIT CAMPUSIll I need 5 GA's lor the Air Force game. Will pay BIG BUCKS!!! Call  301 Rockne 7pm Mondays ••••LAURA CANNON"••• •...LAURA CANNON"••• She's hotlll She's a throat. She's wild. Check it out. Farley Hall: by appt only. ••••LAURA CANNON•••• ###############  
I NEED AIR FORCE TIX STUD. OR GA'S CAN BE SEP. OR TOGETHER WILL PAY ANY PRICE  I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER$$$$$ I need 2 GA's for EVERY home  Selling one student ticket for Purdue and Stanford: Kathy x2567 Purdue and other  4 Miami GA's together for sale best offer by 10/5 call 273-1364  KEVIN AT X 2201 TRADE 2 AF GA'S FOR 2 PAST GA'S. TEDS 1388  #Integrity. Values.## #Hard Work. Cute. ## #Bulging muscles. ## #Female Magnet. ## #Amphibian drinker.#  
CALL MIKE -i731 PLEASE Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading Books at home. Call 1-615-473-7440 ext. B 340. Christmas Help National firm has many openings available. $8.10 starting. Gain great business experience . Weekends and evenings available.call 271-8699 1need 2 GA's and 1 stud for Stanford gameI Betsy 283-3829 EARN $2500 AND FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO BAHAMAS, JAMACIA AS PART-TIME CAMPUS REP FOR SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786. BICYCLE mechanic/sales person wanted. Pro-Form Bike Shop, N. Ironwood Dr. (between Edison & S.R. 23) 272­0129. ·-------------------------·--------­FOR RENT 1991-1992 Reserve your 6,5,4, or 2 bedrm house. Call Bruce: 234-3831 or 288­5653 STUDENT HOUSING FOR 1991-92 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL CHUCK GLORE 232-1776. a studto apartment in lovely old mansion near N. D. 255 plus deposit , please call 2888595 1EFFICIENCY APT. & 1 ONE­BDRM. APT. DOWNTOWN SO. BEND. CALL RALPH 231-2391 BEFORE BAM OR 616-695-3786.  gamell WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ HELP! This means YOU. I need two GA's for Miami game. Will pay $, exchange with Purdue tix and/or hotel reservations for any game. Amy 1289. Need 2 Air Force GA's call Brian C. at x3546 or x3540 HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will pay $$$$$$$$1 Call Matt X1055 MIAMI TIX WANTED $ STUDENT OR GA $ (201) 334-3804 Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or GA Please call Matt X3024 WANTED: 2 GAs to the STANFORD game. Call E.J. at 272-4715. Need Miami GAs & Studs Mike 273-1537 Need Miami stud tix for brothers, Dan x1 795 3 STUD MIAMI TIX BEST OFFER 271-0836 Need: TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES! CALL JOE X1688 Monday-Thursday 3:30-6:30 Need 1 Stanford GA, Stan x2742 I NEED 4 G.A.s FOR THE AIR FORCE GAMElIll PLEASE CALL NANCY AT 273-2024.  home game tix for sale. Call299-9122 between 8-tOpm NEED 2 GA TICKETS STANFORD. CALL 203-325-9717. I NEED 2 STANFORD GAs. CALL MIKE AT 283-1062, OR SUSAN AT 283-4121. I need 1 or 2 MIAMI stud. or GAs. STEVE B. X1528 Need 2 Stanford GAs Call x2499 I NEED 2 STANFORD STUD. TIX CALL REX X1565 Need 2 Penn GAs Julie x1992 BIG$$ for 2 Air Force GA's call Luigi x4659 I NEED 6 AIR FORCE GA'S. MONEY NOT A CONSIDERATION. PLEASECALLJIMAT x1091 need 2 airtorce GAs $$$ Lisa 2341574/Jim 2711703 I need 4 STANFORD stud or GA tix Marty@ 289-1015 HELP! NEED ONE AIRFORCE GA. CALL DENIS X2090 HELP MY NJ RELATIVES WANT TO SEE MY OK RELATIVES. I NEED 8 AIR FORCE G.A.'S AND 2 STUDENT TIX. CALL GINA AT X3840 NEED AF GA'S ­4 TOGETHER OR 2 SETS OF 2; 3-5 MIAMI GA;1 MIA STUD TtX• CALL DAVE X1407 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  HAVE 2 PENN STATE GA'S AND 1 MIAMI STU TO TRADE FOR 3 STANFORD GA'S CALL ANTHONY x4239 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 AIR FORCE AND 2 MIAMI GA'S HAVE TO IMPRESS GIRLFRIENDS PARENTS MONEY IS NO PROBLEMIIIII CALL JOE X1 165 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S FOR AIR FORCE GAMEIIIII CALL DENISE AT X4281 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S PLEASE CALL MIKE 272-4748 WILL TRADE 4 PURDUE GA'S AND 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL BERT AT WORK AT 1­800-437-931 B. WOULD LIKE TO EXCHANGE 2 TICKETS FOR OCT. 6 STANFORD GAME FOR 2 TICKETS TO THE NOV. 17TH PENN STATE GAME. IF INTERESTED, PLEASE CALL 277-5658. NO/STANFORD NEED 2 TIX. CALL 412-339-0736. $$$$$ PROUD SMC POP NEEDS 3 TIX TO NO/MIAMI GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL WIL-217/223-9609. NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TIX. CALL KATE AT X4045. YOU CAN CHANGE THE WORLD!  need one or two PENN STATE GAs. Call monica at 283-4021 . PLEASE! !IIIII SELL ME 2 AIR FORCE GAs I'M DESPERATEI Call Robb x1653 I WILL SELL ALL MY STUDENT TICKETS AT REASONABLE PRICES. CALL JAKKI X4292. I NEED 4 STANFORD STU. AND 2 MIAMI GA'S AND 1 PENN ST. STU. I WILL PAY WELL.$$$$$ CALL JEFF AT 273-1257 PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE!!! I REALLY NEED 1 MIAMI AND 2 STANFORD STUDENT TIX. CALL KAREN AT X2612. I will give you money and "special" favors if you sell me your 4 STANFORD GAs. Call Rich at 259-1446. NEED 2 STANFORD GA.S SO BAD, LOTS OF $$$$ COULD BE YOURS! 41 10, DEREK Please help!! I need Penn State tickets­GAorStud. Call Kathie X2484 I NEED MANY STANFORD G.A.S. CALL STACY 271-1 953. NEED 1-2 AIR FORCE GA #2790 HAVE: 1 MIAMI STU NEED: 2 OR 3 AIRFORCE GA's call KATIE X2563 NEED 2 STANFORD TIX. HAVE AIR FORCE TO TRADE IF NECESSARY. X40BB need STANFORD stud ticket  ##STEVE CANNON## ##STEVE CANNON## ############### ..LONG ISLAND STUDENTs•• Fall Break Bus Oct 21 AM to Ll -Oct 27 PM back to NO. Done in our usual "spirit" for only $10011st come, 1st serve-act now! Janice 2993,Joni 1839.SMC welcome! HAPPY BIRTHDAY, KERRIE ANN SHANNON. Colleen & Kathleen HAPPY 21st KERRIE ANN SHANNON. Love, Mom & Dad PLEASE HELP Need TWO MIAMI stud tix & Two PENN GA's 284-5023 Aris, Thanx for the ride home Friday night. Luv,J&M CeC&­You're the balls! GET TOP$ FOR YOUR NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS 1-800-733-8499 ASK FOR PAUL ALL SALES CONFIDENTIAL  
STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK AVAILABLE NOW 271-1833 AFTER 7:00PM  I NEED TIX TO ANY GAME!II CALL SHARON 284-5089  NEED AIR FORCE, STANFORD, AND MIAMI TICKETS. GA'S OR STUD. CALL ROB OR TOM X1779.  OR MINE IF YOU SELL ME YOUR STANFORD GA'S OR STUD'S. CALL KEVIN AT X2201  Sheri x3620 4 AIR FORCE GAs FOR SALE CALL JULIE x4975  see CLASS I page 8  
....  




Scoreboard 

pag~ 14 Monday, October 1, 1990 
NFL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE e..t w L T Pet PF PA Buffalo 3 0 .750 
92 75 Miami 3 1 0 .750 88 57 NY Jets 2 2 0 .500 
88 ail lndnplis 1 3 0 .250 58 89 N England 1 3 0 .250 60 119 Central Cincnnati 3 0 0 1.000 
87 43 Houston 2 2 0 
.500 77 84 Cleveland 3 0 .250 48' 
85 Pttsburgh 3 0 .250 32 70 West LA Raidrs 4 0 0 1.000 75 35 K"an. City 3 1 0 .750 
98 48 Denver 2 2 0 .500 95 97 San Diego 1 3 0 .250 
61 69 Seattle 0 3 0 .000 44 68 NATIONAL CONFERENCE East w L T Pet PF PA NYGiants 4 0 0 1.000 106 47 Washingtn 3 1 0 .750 
101 51 Dallas 3 0 .250 56 92 Phila 3 0 
.250 91 95 Phoenix 
3 0 .250 40 118 Centre I Chicago 3 0 .750 77 53 Tampa Bay 3 0 
.750 98 96 Green Bay 2 2 0 .250 76 93 Detroit 3 0 
.250 93 99 Minesota 1 
3 0 .250 89 69 West San Fran 3 
0 0 1.000 58 38 Atlanta 2 0 .333 
74 67 LA Rams 2 0 .333 eo 77 New Orlns 1 2 0 .333 43 52 Sunday's Games New York Giants 31, Dallas 17 Buffalo 29, Denver 28 Green Bay 24, Detroit 21 
SPORTS CALENDAR RESULTS 
Indianapolis 24, Philadelphia 23 Miami 28, Pittsburgh 6 
Vol~ll

Tampa Bay 23, Minnesota 20, OT Penn State def. Notre Dame 15-8, 15-7, 15-5 (Fri.) Monday, October 1 Los Angeles Raiders 24, Chicago 10 
Women;• Soccer Miami of Ohio def. Notre Dame 15-8, 15-5, 15-3 No sports scheduled. Kansas City 34, Cleveland 0 
Notre Dame 1, Louisville 0 (Sun.) (Sat.) Houston 17, San Diego 7 Tuesday, October 2 New York Jets 37, New England 13 Men's Soccer Men's Cross Country No sports scheduled. Washington 38, Phoenix 10 Friday's match with Indiana was canceled due to Notre Dame finished first In the National Catholic inclement weather. Invitational with a score of 16. (Fri.) Wednesday, October 3
OPEN DATE: Atlanta, Los Angeles Rams, New Orleans, San Francisco Notre Dame 0, Wisconsin 0 (Sun.) No sports scheduled.
llonday'a Game 
Women's Cross CountryCincinnati at Seattle, 9 p.m. 

Football Notre Dame finished second in the National Thursday, October 4 Notre Dame 37, Purdue 11 (Sat.) Catholic lnvHational with a score of 88. No sports scheduled. 

Join 
The Observer, 
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 
Injury for.ces .sandri into ~c.tion 
Lineman forced 1nto act1on when Gene McGu1re 1s hurt 
By FRANK PASTOR to wait another week rather Saturday, scoring a combined and CHRIS COONEY than risk reinjuring his knee on 31 of its 37 points in the second Sports Writers Michigan State's astroturf and third quarters. For the field. first time this year, the Irish eee failed to score in the fourth 
When Winston Sandri re­Raghib Ismail returned to the quarter.placed Gene McGuire at quick Heism ·n Trophy chase Satur­Of course, the starting unit tackle last week in practice, he day after two weeks where op­was off the field by that time. assumed it would be only until ponents tried their best to keep eee McGuire recovered from a the ball away from him. Demetrius DuBose playedbruised shoulder injured the Ismail exploded for a 64-yard Saturday's game despiteweek before against Michigan touchdown run on a reverse breaking his toe in Friday'sState. and 117 all-purpose yards in practice. 
Sandri got the job for at least the game. He rushed five times DuBose tallied three unas­two to four more weeks when for 82 yards. .;aught one pass sisted tackles in the game while McGuire suffered cartilage for seven yards, returned a rotating with Donn Grimm at 
damage to his knee in Satur­kickoff for 18 yards and a punt inside linebacker. day's game against Purdue. for 10 yards. •e• 
Sandri missed the first two The touchdown run gave Holtz expressed surprise at games of the season with a Notre Dame an insurmountable Notre Dame's four holdingseverely strained knee but re­19-3lead in the second quarter, penalties in Saturday's game.
turned to practice early last but Holtz had certain reserva­The Irish lost 36 yards because week and replaced McGuire in tions about calling it. of those fouls, even though offi­
the offensive line against the "When I called it [the re­cials who attend all of Notre Boilerm~ers. verse], I thought, 'Gee, that Dame's practices and scrim­might be a dumb call,'" said the 
mages had noted the team's 

McGuire had arthroscopic Irish head coach. "We have avoidance of that problem. surgery performed on his knee never run that reverse except 
''I'm sure it's something we're on Sunday. 

once in practice where we doing," said Holtz. "Sometimes eee officials will interpret things
pitched the ball. All year longTailback Dorsey Levens, who 
we ran it where we handed it different. What we have to do is injured his knee while jogging off. 
look at it and find out why." 

in Syracuse, N.Y., over the 
The holds negated or 

summer, played in his first "But we pitched it and exe­
severely cut runs by Rick Wat­game of the season Saturday. cuted, and I didn't expect it to ters, Shawn Davis and two byLevens was the top-rated go all the way. I thought maybe Tony Brooks. While Holtz felt running back coming out of we could get a first down." the officiating was good during 
spring practice before his in­eee the game, he found the sudden 
jury. He gained 30 yards on five The Irish offense came under emergence of that particularcarries Saturday against Pur­fire in the first two games of foul frustrating.due, including a 16-yard run in the season for its propensity to "Today every time you turned 
the first quarter. 

start strong and finish even around you're facing first and Levens was ready last week stronger but disappear in the 20 and things like that," said against Michigan State, but middle quarters. Holtz. "That was little disapp­
Head Coach Lou Holtz decided Notre Dame rectified that on pointing." 
Irish remain on top of National College Poll By RENE FERRAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame remained in the top spot of the National Collegiate Sportswriters Poll for the third week in a row. Thirty schools participated in this week's voting. 
The Irish, with their 37-11 victory over Purdue, received 25 first-place votes and 592 total points. Florida State stayed in the second position with its 39­28 win over Virginia Tech; the Seminoles captured four first­place votes and 574 total points. 
Michigan jumped two posi­tions to third with its 45-17 de­feat of Maryland, while Virginia climbed from seventh to fourth by outlasting William & Mary 63-35. The other first-place vote went to Miami, which re­mained ninth with its 48-21 win over Iowa. 
With the many upsets which occurred this weekend, there was plenty of movement in the poll. The biggest gainers of the week were Florida, from 18th to 11th due to its 34-21 victory over Mississippi State, and Colorado, 19th to 15th by virtue of its 20-14 win over Washington. The Huskies fell from 12th to 17th with the loss, while Brigham Young fell six places to lOth in losing to Oregon 32-16. However, Texas A&M fell the furthest this week; its 17-8 loss to LSU led to its plunging from 11th to 18th. 
Arizona dropped out of the Top 20 this week by losing to California 30-25, while Michigan State debuts at the 19th position with its 34-10 victory over Rutgers. 
The National Collegiate Sportswriters Poll with records, first place votes in parentheses and total points: 
1. Notre Dame (25) 3-Q 592 2. Florida State (4) 4-0 574 3. Michigan 2-1 497 4. Virginia 5-Q 486.5 5. Auburn 2-Q-1 442.5 6. Tennessee 3-Q-2 437 7. Nebraska 4-0 419 8. Oklahoma 4-Q 398.5 9. Miami, Fla. (1) 2-1 376.5 10. Brigham Young 4-1 259.5 11. Florida 4-Q 244 12. usc 3-1 243.5 13. Houston 3-Q 232 14. Illinois 2-1 224 15. Colorado 3-1-1 215 16. Clemson 4-1 165 17. Washington 3-1 129 18. TexasA&M 3-1 99.5 19. Michigan State 1-1-1 56 20. Ohio State 2-1 48 Also receiving votes: Oregon 
37,Georgia Tech 31, Fresno State 19.5, Arkansas 16.5, Arizona 15, Wyoming 8.5, Arizona State 5, Mississippi 4, LSU 4, Texas 1, Penn State 1, Toledo 1. 
Writers and editors from the following schools voted in this week's poll: Ball State, Wisconsin, West Virginia, Utah, Pennsylvania, Oregon, Michigan, Kansas, Indiana, Columbia, Brown, Oregon State, USC, Arizona, Alabama, Notre Dame, Arizona State, Nebraska, Virginia, Colorado, Clemson, Harvard, Texas, Purdue, Syracuse, Cornell, Duke, Penn State, Washington, Houston. 

We can't be everywhere, let us know if something newsworthy happens. Call The Observer 
239-5303 

SObering Advice·;.. 
cansavea1· 
Think Before You Drink . -~~ Before You Drive -~ 



LOWER LEFT: The Irish cheerleaders celebrate another score. 
IMMEDIATE LOWER LEFT: Raghib Ismail dives across the goal line. 
LEFT: Purdue quarterback Eric Hunter is sacked. 
UPPER LEFT: Quarterback Rick Mirer lunges for Notre Dame's first touchdown. 
UPPER RIGHT: Boilermaker QB Eric Hunter throws under pressure. 
MIDDLE RIGHT: Fullback Rodney Culver cuts into the open field. 
LOWER RIGHT: Junior flanker Raghib Ismail breaks free for a 64-yard touchdown run the longest of his career. 
Photos by Maguerite Schropp, David Lee and Kevin Weise. 


.. 

page 16 The Observer Monday, October 1, 1990

Zorich made the recovery at the said Akers. "Zorich is an excel­like a mirage of former Irish Notre Dame 36-yard line. lent football player, he's quick, quarterback Tony Rice, Mirer, Flanker Raghib Ismail scored and he caused us more prob­who also was 11 of 17 for 130 on a 64-yard touchdown run on lems on the run plays than he continued from ~age 20 yards passing, escaped intense 
Defense Victory 
continued from page 20 
the very next play, forcing a did on the pass." prElssure and scampered 21 swing in the momentum from The defensive front of Zorich, While Ismail had been used yards out of his own endzone which Purdue would never re­Dahl and George Williams shut primarily as a decoy in Notre on third and 18. 
and free safety Tom Carter}, a cover. down the run entirely with the Dame's two previous games, "That was one of the back converted running back (short exception of a 30-yard break­the success of the reverse breakers," said Akers. 
cornerback Reggie Brooks} and "The defense set the tone in away run by tailback Tony surprised even Holtz. That run prevented the Irish a strong safety (Greg Davis} the first half," said Ismail. "The Vinson in the third quarter. "When I called it, I thought, from punting from their who totalled four career starts front seven really shut Purdue Without that, the Boilermakers 'Gee that might be a dumb call' endzone and paved the way for 
among them coming into the down." would have finished the game because we have never run that Craig Hentrich's second field game. with minus-six yards rushing. reverse except once in goal. His first, the longest of Purdue entered the game with practice," said Holtz. his career at 44 yards, capped
Kowalkowski set the tone in 
Hunter, the latest in a long the worst-ranked rushing game While Ismail finished the. day Notre Dame's first series of the
the second half as well when he 
line of excellent Purdue quarter­again hit Hunter from behind, among the 106 Division I teams leading all Irish rushers with game. backs which includes Len knocking the ball loose and (55.5 yards per game, 1.7 yards 82 yards, nine other With Notre Dame leading 6­Dawson, Bob Griese, Mark a carry}. Zorich wanted things ballcarriers saw action as well. 3, the Irish got their first
pouncing on it at the Purdue 33 
Hermann and Jim Everrett, and yard-line. Eight plays later, to stay that way. Included among those were touchdown on a Mirer option the fifth-ranked passer in the Shawn Davis scored on a one­"When they got that big run Dorsey Levens, playing for the that culminated a five-play, 66­country, further complicated yard touchdown run to give the up the middle," he said, "I was first time since injuring his yard drive. That series differed Notre Dame's task. Irish a 33-3 lead. not a happy camper." knee last summer, and back­from most in that Notre Despite his big passing day, ups Jerome Bettis, Ryan Dame's big gainers came from 
But the more experienced "I tried to knock the ball out Hunter could relate to the Milhalko and Kenny Spears. the air. Brown caught a Mirer Irish front seven put constant of his hands on the second fum­metaphor. While Levens got 25 of his 30 pass ten yards up the middle pressure on Hunter and forced ble," .said Kowalkowski. Irish 37, Boilers 11 yards early in the game, the and outpaced a crowd of two key turnovers which erased "Purdue is a much-improved Purdue 3 0 0 B-11 other backs got to face the Purdue defenders before being 
any mistakes the secondary football team, but we came Notre Dame 6 21 10 Q--.;37 Purdue defense when Holtz pulled down at the Boilermaker ND-FG Hentrich 44
might have made. after them an awful lot today. inserted the second team 26. Mirer also hit Lake Dawson 
Pur-FG Sullivan 31

This was definitely a confi­offense toward the end of the for another nine yards. 
ND-FG Hentrich 43 

"We tried to keep Hunter dence-builder for us." ND-Mirer 12 run (Hentrich kick) third quarter. contained," said defensive ND-Ismail 64 run (Hentrich kick) Holtz was happy with their Notre Dame's next series was tackle Bob Dahl, who had two The game did anything but ND-Culver 2 run (Hentrich kick) performances and those of the almost the opposite. With the 
ND-S.Davis 1 run (Hentrich kick) ND-FG Hentrich 24 

tackles for minus-three yards in boost Purdue's confidence. The three backup quarterbacks, help of a pass interference call the game. "The biggest part of I::oilermakers brought what Pur-Callaway 37 pass from Hunter freshmen Kevin McDougal and and a 20-yard pass to Shawn his game was scrambling, so we they believed to be their best (Calloway pass from Hunter) B.J. Hawkins, and sophomore Davis, a variety of runs by 
A-59,075·

tried to put slow, steady pres­team in years into Notre Dame walk-on Matt Johnson, even Ismail, Rodney Culver, Rick
Pur ND sure on him." Stadium but left with all-too­First downs 15 27 though a Craig Hentrich field Watters and Tony Brooks familiar results. Rushes·yards 19-24 65-374 goal, his third of the game, pushed the Irish 89 yards and The pressure must have Passing 354 140 were the only points the unit virtually crumbled the 
Return Yards 21 24 

put on the board. Holtz showed Boilermaker defense. Culver,
seemed anything but slow to "It's tough enough when Comp-Att-lnt 21-37-0 12-21-0 Hunter, who was twice hit from you're playing a team like Notre Punts 7-38 5-47 some concern, however, with who finished the day with 48 behind by outside linebacker Dame and you're doing every­Fumbles-Lost 2-2 0-0 the strength of the second team yards rushing, pushed his way 
Penalties-Yards 7-67 8-72

Scott Kowalkowski and thing right, and doing it well, offensive line. over the goal line for the score. 
Time of Possession 21:12 38:48 

coughed up the football. getting the breaks here and "I never saw a guy break five Another Kowalkowski­there," said Purdue head coach INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS tackles to get to the line of induced fumble set up Notre With Notre Dame protecting Fred Akers, "but when you're RUSHING-Purdue, Vinson 7-42, Morrow scrimmage," said Holtz of one Dame's final touchdown in the 
2-8. Notre Dame, Ismail 5-82, Brooks 11-55, 
a 13-3 lead and Purdue driving not getting them and you're attempt. "Everybody talks third quarter. After recovering
Mirer7-48.deep into Irish territory early in making those kinds of mistakes PASSING-Purdue, Hunter 21-37-0-354. about our depth, but we've got the ball on the Purdue 33, the the second quarter, [turnovers), it kills you. Notre Dame, Mirer 11-17-0-130, McDougal to develop some depth." Irish marched the short Kowalkowski blindsided 1-2-0-10, M.Johnson 0-1-0-0, Hawkins 0-1-Holtz had nothing but praise distance to the endzone. Davis 
0-0.

Hunter, forcing a fumble. The "We didn't have a chance to for Mirer, who demonstrated popped through the middle 
RECEIVING-Purdue, McManus 4-74, 

that he had some wheels of his from the one and sealed the
ball bounced away from several contain many of them [Notre Calloway 3-114, Dennis 3-38. Notre Dame, players before nose tackle Chris Dame's defensive linemen]," S.Davis 3-39, Griggs 1-44, Brown 1-40. own as well. In what seemed Notre Dame victory. 

You turned 21 Saturday, Remember ? Happy Belated Birthday ! 
ll.C?(ft, 1JThl(ft <G~ <G~~ 
COMMUNICATION & THEATRE ~ PRESENTS 
~~TROJAN ~WOMEN 
BY EURIPIDES 
WASHINGTON HALL LABORATORY THEATRE 
DIRECTOR REGINALD BAIN 
SET & LIGHTS KEVIN DREYER 
COSTUMES RICHARD DONNELLY 
STAGE MANAGER TONY Bosco 
TICKETS: $5, $4 STU/SEN CIT. WED THU &SUN AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT LAFORTUNETICKET0FFICE. MASTERCARD/VISA ORDERS CALL 239-8128 THURS., OCT. 4 8:10PM fRIDAY. OCT. 5 8:10PM SAT., OCT. 6 8:10PM SUN., OCT. 7 3:10PM WED., OCT. 10 8:10PM THURS., OCT. 11 8:10PM fRIDAY. OCT. 12 8:10PM SAT.. OCT. 13 8:10PM SUN., OCT. 14 3:10PM 

Before you make that imponant first as the industry leader means stability career decision, take a look at the big picture. and growth potential. Were the world's largest energy So, ifyou're seeking a promisingcompany and the third largest chemical future with a Fortune 50 company, look company in the United States. no funher. Our size gives you Check your placement office for 
diverse options, and our status 
more details. EJf{ON 
EXXON IS SEEKING TO INTERVIEW BS, MS, AND PhD CHEMICAL, MECHANICAL, CIVIL, AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
INTERVIEW DATES:  OCTOBER 16, 17, 18  
SIGN UP DATES:  SEPTEfv1BER 17 AND 18 and  
OCTOBER 1 AND 2  

.. 
-~­
Notre Dame volleyb~ll swept twice in disastrous weekend 
By MIKE KAMRADT Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball players can't help but ask themselves at this point, "what is salvageable from this season?" 
That's not to say that they can't turn things around. The Irish are 5-7 with over 20 matches left to play, but con­sidering the strength of their remaining schedule and the poor play that has been dis­played of late, prospects cer­tainly aren't bright. 
This weekend's consecutive sweeps administered by Penn State and Miami of Ohio only add to the Irish troubles. The Nittany Lions beat the Irish 15­8, 15-7, 15-5 while the Redskins took under an hour to dispose of Notre Dame 15-8, 15-5, 15­3. 
"I have nothing to say," said head coach Art Lambert after Saturday's debacle against Miami. "What can I possibly say?" 
Saying the Irish didn't play well against Miami is being generous. But they looked like they might give Penn State a run for their money, at least for a little while. The Irish jumped out to 1-0 lead in game one when a Lion hitter mistimed a spike attempt. After Penn State tied it at one, freshmen Janelle Karlan and Molly Stark teamed for a block to give the Irish a 2-1 advan­tage. 
Penn State recovered. though, and quickly moved out to 6-2 lead. An Irish receiving error and two hits long by Colleen Wagner contributed to the run. After a time out, the Irish got the side out and closed to 6-4 when Wagner pulled off a solo block. The Lions moved back out to a 9-4 lead, but the Irish closed again to 9-7. 
Penn State moved the lead back out to 13-7 as the Irish continued to be plagued by hit­ting errors (they finished with a .029 hit percentage for the game). 
Game two was over before it started as Penn State was ahead 8-0 before they knew what hit them. Two passing er­rors on the serve gave Penn State the lead right off the bat. 
"You can't give them points on the serve like we did," said Lambert. 
The passing woes continued as an errant pass that hung up over the net was slammed right back at the Irish by the nation's leading hitter JoAnne Elwell (10 kills, .364 hit percentage). Notre Dame tried to make things interesting as a four­point run, capped off by a Stark kill off a quick set, made it 8-4. 
That success with the middle attack was one of the few for the Irish while Penn State was able to utilize it much more. Therein lies one of the things the Irish must learn to be able to beat the top teams. 
"That (the middle attack) re­lies a great deal on the setter," explained Lambert. "We have a brand new setter (Karlan). She's made great improve­ments. She's only been setting since her senior year in high school, about nine months. I've been really pleased with her." 
The Irish again looked as if they'd get things going as they took a 4-2 lead early in game three. After it was 5-3, the Irish stalled. They continued to re­ceive serves at the back line that looked as if they were go­ing out. 
"We played deep so that 
'1 lanondoin~ mytiuneonmyMac. An makingMaan~h tydrt ofmyue." 
Bob Reich Soph!ll110tt Accounting Major University ofNotre Dame 

There's alot more to an Apple~ Madntosh~ computer than just something to make aresume look good. Sure, it's got the capability to improve the look of prnctically any document. But once you get beyond Macintosh as just an elegant formatting tool, you begin to understand why it's becoming so widely accepted in the business world. My Mac® can crunch numbers with the best of them. It just plain makes me more efficient in everything Ido. That frees me up for serious book time-and for not-so-serious stuff, too. 
Having my own Macintosh is abig plus now, and Iknow it'll give me an edge in the real world, too. I'll be able to interface my Mac with mainframes and MS-DOS~ computers and still have the ease-of-use that Macintosh is famous for. And that'll make me work better for whoever Iwork for. 
Macintosh is going to make my resume look better-in more ways than one. 
NOTRE DAMJ<: 
COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
l'hone: 239-7477 


Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00 
Apph, IM Apph lotto. Mllctr11osb, and Mac art rtglslertd trademarlu ofApple Computer, Inc. MS·OOS ts a reglstertd tratkmarlt oftbt Microsoft Corporation. 
they'd hit to the middle," said Lambert. 
Penn State ran off ten straight points to win the match as Noelle Zientara con­tinued to assault the Irish with powerful kills. The way the night went for the Irish was summed up in one sequence of events. With the score 13-5, Alicia Turner slammed a kill down the left sideline for a side out. However, she preceded to hit her serve into the net. 
"The problem wasn't that we weren't up for the match, it was that were too tight," said Lambert. "I did see some bright spots. Everything improved a bit." 
There were no redeeming qualities to the match with Miami. The Irish had negative hitting percentages in the last two games ( a pitiful .077 for the match). They also commit­ted seven serving errors and had only 20 digs. 
Before this season goes en­tirely down the tubes its time for the Irish players to look in­side and find out what's wrong. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team defeated Louisville on Sunday 1-0 behind Marianne Giolitto's goal. The men's team faced Wisconsin on Sunday, but the game ended in a scoreless tie. 
St. Mary's College Varsity Softball will have a meeting in Angela Athletic Facility today at 7 p.m. 
The Notre Dame Ski Club will have an informational meeting today at 8 p.m. in Rm. 118 Nieuwland Science Building. The Christmas trip to Steamboat, CO, the racing team and other club activities will be discussed. If you have any questions or are interested but can't make the meeting, call Mike at 271-8901 or Bob at x3588. 
"Walk Away" -The noontime walking program will be lead by Assistant Volleyball Coach Maria Perez on Tuesday, Oct. 2. Participants should meet in front of Washington Hall at 12:15 for a 30-minute walk. 


llfcoming Events 
WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 3 
DR. AMJAD-ALI Director of Christian Study Centre Rawalpindi, Pakistan 
"RELIGION AND SOCIAL CHANGE: THE ISSUE OF PEACE IN THE CONTEXT OF ISLAMIC NATIONS" 12:00-1:00-Room 258 Fitzpatrick 
and 
"JUSTICE IN ISLAM: A RELOOK AT THE SEPARATION OF RELIGION AND POLITICS" 2:30-3:45 -Hesburgh Library Lounge 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4 
Brown Bag Seminar 
REV. WILSON MISCAMBLE, C.S.C. Assistant Professor, History 
"REFLECTIONS ON A VISIT TO VIETNAM AND CAMBODIA" 
12:00 noon-Room 101 Law School 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL 
111111~~~;~~ 
. ' 

~----------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, October 1, 1990
The Observer

~•9• 18 
Eagles edge Irish women 
By RICHARD MATHURIN Sports Writer f 
The Notre Dame women's ~ cross country team turned in a surprisingly strong perfor­~ mance in the National Catholics I Invitational, finishing a close
I 
second to meet favorite Boston
I 
College here on Friday.
I 
The Eagles finished with the low score of the meet with 87I points, while the Irish just missed the top spot with 88 
t points.
I The overall race winner was 
I junior Heather Whalen of 
I 
I Canisius College, who tore up the course with a time of 
17:54.6 for the 5000 meters.
I 
The time was especially impres­sive since the weather condi­tions were less than ideal and
f 
I 
the second-place finisher, Michelle Manzo of Loyola University, was a distant 15.7 
t seconds behind. Pre-race fa­vorite Jennifer Rolfe of Boston College finished third with a time of 18:23.1. Boston College wrapped up the championship by placing three runners in the top ten, while the Irish's best finish was 10th. Junior Amy Blaising took that honor, running the race in 
18:59.3. Senior Jenny Ledrick finished in.19:04, good for a 12th-place finish. Junior Diana Brad~y was unable to improve 

ND men cruise to win 
•
1n National 
By BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer 
Last Friday, the Notre Dame men's cross country team took one more step toward asserting itself as a national power by winning the National Catholic Invitational for the third con­secutive year. 
The Irish captured six of the top ten places, including a pack of four runners who tied for first place. The top four in­cluded senior captain Mike O'Connor, who finished with a time of 24:59.7 and was ac­companied by teammates Mike McWilliams, John Coyle, and Ryan Cahill. Also finishing in the top seven for the Irish were Pat Kearns (sixth overall), Nick Radkewich (seventh), and Mike Drake (12th) 
The first non-Irish runner to cross the line was Dermitt Fitzpatrick from Boston College. Fitzpatrick finished fifth, in 25:11.4. Boston College placed second overall with 89 points, to Notre Dame's 16. Rounding out the top five schools were LaSalle (99), Marquette (122), and Loyola (147). 
Notre Dame Head Coach Joe Piane was extremely pleased with his team's winning per­formance. 
"The results were better than we had anticipated," said Piane. "The kids did a very fine job ­much better than against Georgetown (Oct. 15 in Notre Dam's first victory), even." 
"We try to shoot for a minute spread between our first and seventh runners," continued Piane, "and our spread for this meet was 37 seconds. Between one and six it was 17 seconds. That's pretty good." 
Piane was especially pleased with the performances of two of his runners: freshman Mike McWilliams and sophomore Nick Radkewich. 
"Mike McWilliams had a very fine performance for a fresh­man," said Piane. "You have to remember that in high school he ran the 5000, and all of a sudden in college he's running two more miles; that's a big adjustment. He did a real good job. 
Jennifer Ledrlck 
on her 12th-place finish versus Georgetown, but managed to place 15th with a time of 19:07.9. 
Irish coach Tim Connelly was especially pleased with Ledrick, of whom he said, "She ran re­ally well. It's as well as I've ever seen her run." Ledrick did not run in the Georgetown meet due to injury. 
"I'm not surprised with the way we ran, but I was sur­prised that the field wasn't any stronger," said Connelly in assessing his team's perfor­mance. 
Things will not get any easier next week as the Irish host the Notre Dame Invitational Friday at Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
Catholics 
"Nick Radkewich also had a real breakthrough perfor­mance," continued Piane. "He ran the fastest he had ever run 
(25:16.5) and finished seventh overall. What can you say other than that all these kids ran very, very well?" 
Piane also expressed hopes that Notre Dame's national ranking of tenth would move up a few notches as a result of Friday's win. 
"I think we have a great shot of moving up to eighth or ninth," said Piane. "In the last six years we've been consis­tently in the top twenty in the country, and that's a habit we want to maintain." 
BUY IT FOR "TilE CAUSE" 
.........
....,
...... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
.....
""'" 
.....
""'" 
.....
""'" 
.....
""'" 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
.....
""'" 
•.!'•
.....
•.!'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
.....
.,.
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
•.I'•
.....
.,.
.....
.,.
.....
.,.
..... 
•.I'•
..... 
.....
""'" 
.....
""'" 
•.I'•
..... 
.....
""'" 
.....
. 
""'" ,.m
..... 
•.I'•
..... 

Injured Dilucia pulls out of tournament 
By FRANK BARLETTA Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's David DiLucia was forced to with­draw from the Texas All­American tournament on Thursday after suffering a pulled hamstring. DiLucia had won two matches in straight sets and qualified for the quarterfinals before withdrawing. 
DiLucia, who was seeded second in the tournament, received a first-round bye. c_ourts}or ~longer per~od of He then defeated Texas' time. If I d kept playmg, I Hubert Karrasch, 7-5, 6-0, really could have hurt it," and Mississippi's Ivan said DiLucia. "I think I made Trevino, 6-1, 6-4. DiLucia, the right choice by pulling who would have faced Rice out." University's Steve Campbell This week, DiLucia plans next in the quarterfinals, re-to follow a lighter than moved himself from the usual practice schedule in competition because of his order to avoid overtaxing · · his inJ·ured leg. He plans to
llljury. 

DiLucia's decision to with-be back in action when the draw came partly out of a Irish face the top-ranked fear of aggravating the in-Stanford Cardinal October jury and keeping him off the 6. 

Sponsored by: 

Office of University Computing 
• Paper due by 12:00 noon
Problem: 
• Must use word rocessor 

• YOU DON'T KNOW HOW!! Solution: • OUC Student Training Program 
• Learn Macintosh and DOS word processing applications 
Call: • Information Resource Center 239-8111 for information and registration 
Student "Jump Start" Computer Classes 
Happy Birthday (19) Kelly Kathleen Smith 




Love Ya Much, 

Mom, Dad, Hugh, Shawnie, Grunt, Grandma J., Uncle Chet, Uncle Chuck, Aunt Jeanne, Jammie, and Larry (Pookie). 
...."' 
.1'•.1'
.... 
....
"'""'
.1'•.1'
.... 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
.1'•.1'
.... 
"'""'.... 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""'
.1'•.1'
.... 
....
"'""' 
~··J'
..... 
....
"'""' 
.1'•.1'
.... 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""'
.1'•.1'
.... 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
.1'•.1'
.... 
.1'•.1'
.... 
.1'•.1'
.... 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
....
"'""' 
"'""'.... 
.1'•.1'
.... 
•rl'•fl
....... 

) 
._________ 


CROSSWORD
LECTURE CIRCUIT 




"You're In luck! This place just came on the market a few days ago .... The previous owners all had their heads chopped off." 
Monday
7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Probablllty As The Logic Of Science," Prof. E.T. Jaynes, Washington University. Room 118, Nieuwland Science. Free admission. Sponsored by Rellly Center and Science, Technology and Values Program. 
-·Tuesda 
y .. i
12 p.m. Kellogg Seminar: Economic Transition n Poland: Problems and Prospects; Prof. Denis Goulet. Hoom 131, Declo Faculty Hall. Brown Bag Lunch. Free admission. Sponsored by the Committee for European Studies, ISLA and Departments of History, Government and International Studies and Sociology. 
MENU 
Pot Roast Ala Mode Grilled Sole Cheese Ravioli Cheese Rolls 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
LOOK, 1-\CBBES, I CUT ~ 
SEE., I jlJST 1-\0U) \1 \JP 
PIECE. Of CA~BOARO TO 
fl.~\> IT5 L\1(£ t'tll ON T\1. 
tw\fl.I(E 
P... Tv ScREEN. 
TOO s~o r BUT o~ 1\-\t.. 011-\t.R. 1-lA.t-10, Cl>o.~'T REJ>,\.L~ ~o ONE I~ TillS 1-\0ME FORCE M~ WA'i CP.,~ TURN INTC 111\LL\O~S ~E. OFF.' 
OF I'EOPLE"S 
14otiiE.S HCI-\ OA'{. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
bulrush 
13A Caesar 
19 Space 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
55~Leone 
58 Dispute 60 Where to see aces 62-will 
(enmity) &3Gall 64 Expunge &5 Dundee denial && Certain canasta 
cards 

&7 Soft drinks 
&a Novelist Kesey 
DOWN 
1 Texan's acres for farming 2 Debase 3 Where to see eagles 
4 Evaluate 5 Writer Anita a Tubular 
passage 7 Common abbr. 8 Scarlett's man 9 Maligns 
10 Module or monad 11 Dirk of yore 
00, I ~t W~T 
mROO l'Wo.i ~GAIN. I.E'S ROO ~E.1WNG 0\F­FtR.~T lONIG\\1. 
.. 

JAY HOSLER 
27 Pen points 29 Pittsburgh football pro 30 Where to see hat tricks 31 Emerald Isle, to a Gael 32 Sail before the 
wind 33 Coalition 34 Fabulist 3& Sirius or Rigel 
40~Lanka 

Answers to any three clues in this 
puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each 
minute). 

BILL WATTERSON 
• 

MY NAME iS BE.TI'I· 
• 

ACROSS 1 Branch of math. 4Wood that wears well in water 9 Does some housework 14 Down Under hopper 15 "-Pacific," 1949 musical 1& Boredom 11 Tool that makes holes 18 Where to see kickers 20 Most adroit 22 Exactly 23 Musical gps. 24 Energy source 
25 Welles and Bean 28 Interlocks 33 Melancholy 35 ~off (cheats) 
37 Imperturbable one 38 Torino coin 39 Encourages 41 Beige 42Kilns 44Cicatrix 45 Stretched, with "out" 4& Tops of ranges 48 Kind of play or crown 50 Picasso medium 52 Philippine island 


-7-+.::=-F.+-71 24 Appearances 2& A feast ~ famine 
REAO Mt ''"AMSlt.R 
"liE.~ ~0 
l\IE GOO£'( I<ABLOOIE. .• 

430. Henry products 47 Titles of respect 49 Dentures or licenses 51 Shoe features 53 Anatomical 
tissues 54 Actress Terry 

I THINK Wt: N£E.D 
To TAKE A G,ooD LOOil Af ouR P,E.LAnoNStil~ 5USIE. SoMf.TIM£5 I FEEL Lii<.E :r:: DoN'T E:Vf.N 
I<NDvJ YoU. 
55 Clairvoyant 5& Pertaining to 57 Begrudge 58 Four-sided 
figure, for short 59 Major or Minor 
constellation 60 Explosive &1 Gold, in Cadiz 
-



Sports
Notre Dame gives fans a rest in decisive triumph 
& 
.. 

Massive NO ground attack dooms Akers, Boilermakers 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
It may have not been the most exciting victory, but Notre Dame breathed a sigh of relief on Saturday. 
For the first time this season, the Irish didn't have any come­from-behind, late-game drives, tipped passes or nervous fans shaking in their seats. They simply took the ball and ran with it, defeating Purdue 37-11 in the process. 
"It felt really good to play four solid quarters of football for once," said Irish quarterback Rick Mirer, who was only in the game for three of them. "When we got off real well in the first quarter, I knew we wouldn't have to come from behind again. We did pretty much did what we wanted to." 
The contest with the Boilermakers differed from Notre Dame's squeaky wins against Michigan and Michigan State in almost every way, allowing the Irish to develop a fluid running attack while giving many second team players the chance to earn some game experience in the fourth quarter. 
"It was pretty plain to me the best team won," said Purdue 
Raghib Ismail (25) scored his first touchdown of the season on a 64­yard reverse against the Boilermakers. 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame sophomore for­ward Monty Williams is finished playing basketball. 
But at least he still has the rest of his life in front of him. 
Williams has been restricted from playing competitive sports following a probable diagnosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopa­thy (HCM), a rare but poten­tially dangerous condition fea­turing a thickened muscle be­tween chambers of the heart. 
"With that, there is an undue risk of sudden death," said University physician Dr. Stephen Simons, who said this is not the same condition that killed Loyola Marymount star Hank Gathers last season. 
head coach Fred Akers after the game. "They're the kind of football team you can't make mistakes on, you can't give an inch to. You give those guys an inch, they'll take a mile, and they took a couple miles today." 
What seemed like miles to Akers was actually 502 offensive yards, 362 of them on the ground. At halftime the game was virtually decided, as Notre Dame was leading 27-3 and had 24 7 yards rushing. Meanwhile, a tenacious Irish defense let Purdue quarterback Eric Hunter pass for 354 yards, focusing instead on halting the run and limiting the Boilermakers to one yard rushing in the first half and 24 yards in all. 
"We just never, never got into an offensive rhythm, and had too many key mistakes on defense to have a chance to beat a team like Notre Dame," said Akers, whose team lost its fifth straight to the Irish. 
Both Akers and Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz expressed surprise that the Irish ran so easily against the Boilermaker defense. A combination of steady gainers and long breakaways at crucial times assured the Irish victory by 
in the second quarter. 
The Observer/David Lee 
University doctors first de­tected the condition on Sept. 4 when an extra heart sound ap­peared during routine presea­son physical examinations for members of the Notre Dame basketball team. Further tests by national specialists have confirmed the probable diagno­sis. 
"I didn't die out there on the court," Williams said. "I can't weep about something that I can't control. 
"The reason that I wanted to have this press conference is so that it would be out in the open. It's a rare disease, but who's to say it's rare? Anybody out there could have it. I hope this prevents someone somewhere from finding out about the dis­ease too late." 
The true turning point may 
have occurred when Irish 
flanker Raghib Ismail quickly 
took advantage of a Purdue 
fumble, scoring a 64-yard 
touchdown that sent the 
Boilermakers' upset hopes back 
to West Lafayette. 

With Notre Dame leading 13­
3, the Purdue offense drove 66 
yards to the Irish 19, chiefly 
behind Hunter's 33-yard pass 
that receiver Dunyasha Yetts 
wrestled away from cornerback 
Greg Lane. The Boilermakers 
looked as if they might score 
until Scott Kowalkowsi 
barrelled into Hunter from 
behind and forced him to cough 
up the football. Noseguard 
Chris Zorich recovered it on the 
36. 

On the very next play, Mirer 
handed the ball to Ismail on an 
end around and the part-time 
running back sprinted down the 
sideline for six points. 
Following Derek Brown's lead 
block and breaking a tackle at 
midfield, Ismail's biggest 
challenge came when he had to 
struggle the last few yards into 
the endzone, bowling over a 
defender, split end Tony Smith 
and a misdirected official in the 
process. 

see VICTORY I page 16 
Irish defense against run grounds Purdue's attack 
Quarterback U. entered Notre Dame Stadium Saturday after­
noon with its most ambitious offensive attack to date. 
Notre Dame grounded Purdue's run-and-shoot with good, old-fashioned rush de­fense. 
The Irish conceded 354 yards 


through the air to Boilermaker  Frank  Pastor  
quarterback Eric  Hunter but  
allowed only 24 net yards rush- Associate Sports Editor  
ing, including just  one  in  

the first half, in routing Purdue 37-11. 
"You can choose to rush or choose to cover," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "We felt going into the ballgame that they c6uld not beat us throwing the football. What we could not allow them to do was run the football. 
"We could not let them run it after they caught it, we could not allow the quarterback ·to run, or let the tailbacks run." 
Notre Dame's defensive philosophy resembled that which many NBA teams employ against the Chicago Bulls. Let Michael Jordan get his 40 points per game, but shut down everybody else. 
The run-and-shoot, which features four wideouts and a myriad of different options, posed potential problems for an Irish sec­ondary which started two freshmen (field cornerback Greg Lane 
see DEFENSE I page 16 

Monty Williams 

Williams, the lone sophomore on scholarship, was expected to play a major role on this year's Irish team. He averaged 7. 7 points and 3.7 rebounds per game last season while starting 18 of Notre Dame's 29 games. 
"Monty certainly would have played a key role on our team this season, but that's com­pletely secondary to our con­cern for his health," said Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. "His life after basketball begins now. He will handle it well." 
HCM is an unusual condition found in approximately one­tenth of one percent of Americans. It is also the most common reason for sudden death among competitive ath­letes under the age of 35. 
"It may be aggravated by athletics," Simons said of the disease. "Athletics may be the scenario in which they would 
..
die. 

HCM is considered a relatively uncommon cardiac malforma­tion, but it is known to be a significant cause of death for youths. The high risk of sudden death is most often due to the obstruction of blood flow within the heart or an arryth­mic disturbance within the muscle. Males account for 65 percent of the known cases, while 70 percent of the cases are asymptomatic. 
Williams will maintain a normal life expectancy and the restrictions on physical activity mean he can still do such things as jogging, bicycling or shoot­ing a basketball. He will remain on scholarship. 
~I'm going to be at practice every day to do what I can to help the team win the national championship," Williams said. "I think I can still live a normal life. I just won't be in competi­tive sports." 
Men cruise to win 
The Irish men's cross coun­try team dominated the National Catholic Tournament. See Page 18. 
Irish edged out 
The Notre Dame women's cross country squad loses by one point to Boston College. See Page 18. 
Volleyball follies 
Coach Art Lambert's Notre Dame volleyball team was swept twice this weekend. See Page 17. 

Heart condition prevents Williams from competing 


