
VOL. XXIII NO. 111 MONDAY , MARCH 26, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE D ~ME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND faculty members named to Chile posts 
By MONICA YANT 
Assistant News Editor 

A current faculty member and a former visiting professor are helping develop Chile's democ­racy since being sworn into the cabinet of President Patricio Aylwin March 11. 
Alejandro Foxley was named Chile's Minister of Finance, and Rene Cortazar has become Min­ister of Labor and Social Wel­fare. Alywin is Chile's first Alejandro Foxley democratically elected president Bartell attended the inaugu­in almost 20 years. ration at the im•.itation of Pres­
Foxley has the overall re­ident Aylwin. sponsibility of maintaining a Foxley's "challenge is to come sound budget, low inflation, up with policies that all will and meeting the economic ex­find acceptable," Bartell said. pectations of a country coming Foxley faces limitations in off of 17 years of an oppressive trying to improve Chile's eco­military dictatorship under Au­nomic situation, such as the gusto Pinochet, said Father size of the nation's budget cou-
Ernest Bartell, executive direc­
On Saturday, a march was held to observe the tenth anniversary of Archbishop Romero, who was mur­
tor of the Kellogg Institute. see CHILE I page 6 
dered in El Salvador. The memorial march was led by Notre Dame senior Pete Morgan. 
Sister to be first African American to receive ND medal 
Special to The Observer she has maintained a gruelling 
students in Catholic primary and sometimes we do things schedule of lectures and singing and elementary schools and mine." As if to illustrate, she 
SistP.r Thea Bowman, the performances designed to raise Catholic colleges and universi­led the bishops in singing "We prominent Gospel singer and awareness and appreciation of ties. The foundation board is Shall Overcome," persuading PvangPlist. will become the first black Catholic culture. chaired by Archbishop Eugene them to stand up and link their African Ammican to receive the A consultant for the Catholic Marino of Atlanta and Father arms as they did so. At the con­University of Notre Dame's diocese of Jackson, Miss., she Malloy is a member. clusion of this unusual presen­Lantare Medal. the oldest and helped organize the 1987 Na­Last June, speaking to the na­tation, the meeting's host, most prestigious honor given to tional Black Catholic Congress, tion's Catholic bishops during Archbishop Theodore McCar­American Catholics. an event celebrating the contri­their spring meeting at Seton rick of Newark, described Sis­
"In multiple ministries of butions of America's black Hall University, Sister Bowman, ter Bowman' s address as "a word, song, and suffering Sis­Catholics to their Church. That the daughter of a Methodist fa­moment of grace for us." ter Bowman has shown Church same year she was the subject ther and an Episcopalian and world alike a face of Christ of a profile on the CBS televi­mother, said her conversion to The Laetare (pronounced both black and female," Father sion program "60 Minutes," Sr. Thea Bowman, F.S.P.A. Catholicsim at the age of 12 Lay-tah-ray) Medal is so named Malloy said. "In honoring her, whose host, Mike Wallace, addition to several articles on was nurtured by a Catholic edu­because its recipient is an­we celebrate not only her wit­dubbed her "the African-robed black spirituality and ecumeni­cation and contact with nounced each year on Laetare ness but also the cultural priest." cal relations, articles on the Catholic priests and nuns. She Sunday, the fourth Sunday in wealth of the Catholic Church in Born in Canton, Miss., and writings of St.Thomas More. encouraged the bishops to a Lent on the Church calendar. our land." the granddaughter of a slave, She is also a member of the wider and deeper consultation "Laetare," the Latin word for' 
Afflicted by cancer since Sister Bowman has read, spo­faculty of Institute of Black with blacks and to a greater "rejoice," is the first word in 1985. the 51-year-old Sister ken and sung before hundreds Catholic Studies at Xavier Uni­openness to African American the entrance antiphon of Mass Bowman, a member of the of gatherings nationwide as versity in New Orleans. culture in Catholic liturgy. on that Sunday, which antici­Franciscan Sisters of Perpetual well as in Nigeria, Kenya and Admirers of her work have "See," she explained, "y'all pates the celebration of Easter. Adoration, is confined to a Canada. She holds a doctoral established a Sister Thea Bow­are always talking about what wheelchair and undergoes degree in rhetoric and litera­man Educational Foundation to you got to do to be a multi-cul­chemotherapy five days a ture from Catholic University of provide financial support and tural church. It means some­month. Despite this handicap, America and has published, in mentoring programs for black times we do things your way see LAETARE I page 4 
New co-ed laundry facility to be built near Credit Union 
By ANDREA CAVANAUGH always been a "major consider­News Writer ation." The cost to students to re­
A new laundry facility will be ceive services from the new fa­built in the area behind the cilities has not yet been deter­Notre Dame Credit Union, ac­mined. Currently, the ideas for cording to Terry Riordan, as­a new laundry payment system sistant director of the St. remain "hazy," but a new sys­Michael's Laundry Office. tem will most likely be devised. 
"We hope to be fully opera­tional in the fall of 1991," Rior­Dry cleaning will again be dan said. available for students and fac­
St. Michael's Laundry was de­ulty at the new laundry facility. stroyed by a fire November 16, Although the causes of the St. 1989. Michael's fire have been 
Hiordan said that the new fa­"narrowed down," Riordan cility will provide "optional" doubts that the cause will ever laundry services for both male be determined. He claims that and female students. extra precautions will be taken 
Hiordan stated that the Uni­in the building of the new laun­versity had considered giving dry facility because building women the option of a laundry codes have changed. service before the fire occurred. In spite of the inconveniences When Notre Dame became co­in reorganizing St. Michael's The Observer/John H. Cluver 
educational, the University did after the fire, Riordan is confi­not offer women laundry ser­dant of the future of the new St. Michael's laundry, after burning down in November, is scheduled to re-open in the fall of 1991. A new vices because the facilities were facility and the service it will 
facility is being built behind the Notre Dame Credit Union which will offer services to both male and female not available, but the issue has offer. students. 




Monday, March 26, 1990

page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Bill of rights demands student input 
Presently Student Government leaders are working on a bill of students' rights. At first you might wonder why you should care about such a document, 

perhaps you think it Kelley Tuthill won't make a differ­ence anyway. This bill News Editor can make a difference and yes, you should care about it. 
This particular bill is vital because it can change DuLac. The dreaded DuLac might actually include something that students will see as favorable, something that adds to students' rights rather than restricts 
them. 
The bill was unanimously passed by the Student Senate on March 5. Next the bill must be passed by the Campus Life Council 
(CLC) by a two-thirds majority vote. The CLC is an 18 member body made up of stu­dents, faculty, rectors and administrators. 
When the CLC met last Thursday there was no representative from Student Affairs present. However, further discussion of the bill will take place on Wednesday, March 28 at 3 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune. 
I challenge both students and a represen­tative of Student Affairs to be present at the meeting on Wednesday to show their con­cern for students' rights at Notre Dame. 
**Note: If the bill does pass through the CLC, Father David Tyson, vice president of Student Affairs, can still veto the bill. Nice system of checks and balances we have at Notre Dame. 
Some important reasons why you should support all or some of the seven articles in this bill: 
•The 
bill asks that "students will comprise at least one half of the panel at administra­tive hearings." Fathom that, studehts hav­ing input in the way that the Administration hands out punishments; 

•The 
bill states that the Administration has the responsibility to a public disclosure of all administrative hearings. Maybe this would help combat the date rape problem we have at Notre Dame. If the Administra­tion admitted that date rape occurs on this campus, perhaps both males and females would be more careful about the situations they put themselves in; 

•Students 
have the right not to be collec­tively punished--remember matching funds. Enough said. 

•A 
final important aspect of the bill is that students have the right to a free and uncensored press. 


I encourage all members of the community to be concerned about this issue. Write letters to Viewpoint, better yet write letters to Father Tyson. This issue does matter-­the rights you might want to exercise some day may be rights you do not have. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obeserver. 

Ihe Obset:Ver_ 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
1219)-239-7471  
Today's Staff:  
News  Production  Business  
Pete Loftus  Beth Peterson  Monica Yant  
Erin O'Neil  Christine Anderson  Lauren Deluca  
Melissa Gorham  Maureen Gallagher  
Accent  
Cristina Ortiz  VIewpoint  Ad Design  
Liz Havel  Julie Shepherd  Joy Harris  
Monica Yant  Kathy Welsh  Anita Covelli  
Lisa Gunsorek  
Systems  Tony Paganelli  
Sports Threresa Kelly  Amalia Meier Deirdre Bell  Mary Sain  

. The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday . nrough Fnday eKcept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WEATHER 

Lines show high temperatures. 

Yesterday's high: 45 Yesterday's low: 21 Nation's high: 96 
(Borrego Springs, Calif.) Nation's low: -10 (Hardin, Mont.) 
Forecast: Variable cloudiness and colder today with some flurries. Highs from 35 to 
40. Clearing and cold tonight. Lows from 20 to 
25. Mostly sunny and warmer Tuesday. Highs 
FRONTS: 
from 40 to 45. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc 
Pressure 
X

® © [ill ~ m 0 EZ] 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
i Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
i. _____________________________j 
OF INTEREST 

Advertising and Alcohol, do they mix? A presen­Anyone interested in working at the Collegiate tation entitled "Calling the Shots," will be conducted on Jazz Festival March 30 and 31 should contact Barb at the Tuesday at 8 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. SUB office at 239-7668 or Janice at 283-2956. There will 
also be a mandatory meeting Wednesday, March 28 at 9 
p.m. in the SUB office in LaFortune. 
WORLD 

Efforts in East Germany to form the country's first Estonia's Communist Party voted overwhelmingly democratic government faltered Sunday because of Sunday to split with Moscow, but agreed to a six-month mounting charges of past ties between political leaders transition period to avoid antagonizing Soviet authorities and the hated secret police. Social Democratic Party who strongly opposed the move. The vote to establish an leader Ibrahim Boehme, the latest politician to come un­independent Communist Party in Estonia was 432-3 with der suspicion of having collaborated with the secret po­seven abstensions, said Lembo Taning, an adviser on ceo­lice, called for all coalition talks to be suspended until the nomic affairs to the party's Central Committee. But the allegations are investigated. official Soviet news agency Tass said 228 delegates boy­
cotted the polling. 
NATIONAL 

Dying cancer patients in South Carolina have been Republican gubernatorial nominee in Texas, raising money by selling their pain pills to a drug ring, Clayton Williams said Sunday his off-the-cuff remark authorities say. Drug dealers befriended other patients suggesting victims of rape should "relax and enjoy it" who refused to sell their pills, called Dilaudid, and then was insensitive, after initially downplaying it as just a stole the medicine from them. Other times, relatives of joke. While preparing for a cattle round-up at his West patients stole the pills and sold them for about $25 each Texas ranch Saturday, Williams compared the cold, foggy to the drug dealers. The dealers sold the tiny yellow pills weather spoiling the event to a rape. "If it's inevitable, to heroin addicts for about $40 each. just relax and enjoy it." 
INDIANA 

Late season snowstorms threaten to take One man was injured late Sunday when an a bite out of the peach and apple crops, orchard apparent gas leak triggered an explosion at a owners say. Temperatures over the weekend that home in Terre Haute, police said. Rick Fernandez dipped into the 20s did not do much damage to suffered cuts on his face and legs. The single­southern Indiana fruit trees because of a protec­family home on Terre Haute's southeast side ex­tive layer of snow and ice. But the melt itself has ploded about 8 p.m., said police patrolman Jaek left crops vulnerable, said orchardman Bob Hartman. Authorities said the homes on either Englebrecht of Evansville. Orchard owners say side of the building were damaged extensively and they will not be able to predict the size of the fruit some windows were blown out of the former crop until the threat of further freezes ends in Thornton Elementary School building a few 
ApriL blocks away. 
CAMPUS MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for March 23, 1990 
Father David Tyson, vice president for Student Affairs, is one of two finalists for the presidency of the University of Portland, accord­Volume in shares ing to Francesca Clifford of Portland's Public He­
132.07 Million 
lations Office. She said the Presidential Search Committee will probably make their recommen­dation on April 8. Portland's Board of Regents is expected to reach a decision in early May. Tyson NYSE Index ~ould not be reached for comment. 185.45 '1}0.75 
S&P Composite 337.22 {r 1.53 Dow Jones Industrials 2,704.28 {r 8.56 
+ 
Precious Metals Gold {1r $5.30 to $389.40 I oz. 
Silver.(} 4.7¢ to $5.043/ oz. 
Source: AP

American Red Cross 
ALMANAC On March 26: eln 1904: In Tennessee, Union 
and non-union workers battle at 
Dayton Coal and Iron Co. eln 1910: U.S. Congress passes an amendment to the 1907 Immi­gration Act, barring criminals, paupers, anarchists and carriers of disease from settling in thfl U.S. 
eln 1934: Switzerland bans slan­
dllrous criticism of state institu­tions in press; thrflatens suspension of publications. eln 1972: El Salvadoran gov­ernment says 100 were killed in a failed revolt thfl previous day. 
eln 1979: In Washington, Begin and Sadat sign a formal treaty, ending 30 years of war. 
eln 1981: Carol Burnett wins $1.6 million in a libel suit against The National Enquirer. 


Monday, March 26, 1990 


New ND cheerleading squad is announced 
By CATHERINE KANE News Writer 
After almost nine hours of tryouts on Friday and Saturday night. 16 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students cele­brated their selection for the 1<JIJ0-91 cheerleading squad. 
Captains Don Gomez, a Notre Dame junior, and Keilleen Phe­lan, a junior from Saint Mary's, are joined by live men and live women. as well as four alter­nates after what Gomez termed as "intense competition." 
The men include Zac Nagle, Kevin Suggs, and Don Stager, all juniors. and newcomers Tyler Moore and Matt Carr, both freshmen. Jessica Chiap­petta and Betsey Ciarimboli. sophomores, return with Laura Garza and Cheryl Cihak, also sophomores, and Mary Malone, a freshman from Saint Mary's. 
Alternates are Jim Lopiccolo, a junior. Matt Raulston, a sophomore, Lara Bertucci, a Saint Mary's junior, and Jen­nifer Finn. a freshman. The new Leprechaun is Bryan Lip­tak. a sophomore. 
Thirty three women and four­
teen men, tried out for 14 
cheerleading positions and one 
Leprechaun spot. The captains 
were already chosen and didn't 
need to try out. 
Competitors were judged on 
the basis of their performance 
in the following categories: 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MBA INVITATIONAL CASE COMPETITION 
PARTICIPATING SCHOOLS: DUKE UNIVERSITY 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN 
>>> PUBLIC INVITED <<< 
10:00 AM TO 4:30 PM 
TUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1990 CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
stunting, gymnastics, cheering (a combination of arm move­ment, voice, and stunting), the Fight Song, personality, a one­and-a-half minute routine made up by the contestants them­selves called an optional, and a dance, affectionately known as the "Hell Dance". which was for the girls only. 
After first cuts on Friday, fourteen women and all twelve men returned Saturday morn­ing for interviews, where stu­dents fielded questions dealing with various situations they may face in the coming year. 
According to Gomez, the in­terviews were very important because there is "a lot of inter­action between the cheerleaders and alumni and fans, and (the squad) needs people who can interact well." 
More students showed up for the practices which began in late February than made it to the tryouts. The practices last month included work on stunt­ing and gymnastics, and be­tween Tuesday and Thursday of last week, all of the candidates learned the Fight Song, a cheer, and the "Hell Dance". Accord­ing to Gomez, the goal of try­outs was to go out and have a good time, and get people ex­posed to cheerleading. Having succeeded in this goal. the squad is looking forward to "a great year with a very talented team." 

The Observer 

Hot tunes The Observer/Andrew McCloskey The band Smoke Taxi plays to a crowd of students on Fieldhouse Mall Saturday. Pictured left to right are: Scott Lindley, Rich Pagen, Gerald Donnelly, Kurt Gerdenich and Dave Kirchner. 
Alcohol education film to be shown Tues. 
By PATRICK HEALY News Writer 
The junior class, in collabora­tion with the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, will be sponsoring an alcohol educa­tion program with a presenta­tion titled "Calling the Shots" Tuesday at 8 p.m. 
The program, to be held in Montgomery Theater of LaFor­tune Student Center, will consist of an introduction by Carolyn Kelly, Director of Alcohol and Drug Education, the film "Calling the Shots", and a discussion afterwards. 
"Calling the Shots" is a film program is an effort by the ju­by Jean Kilbourne, a media nior class to get students more critic who has been waging a involved in pertinent issues. nationwide campaign against Shinnick said the class officers alcohol and its advertising. Kil­are committed to bring in more bourne, who was called an outside speakers this year and "expert on alcohol and sex next. abuse and its portrayal in the media" by the Kalamazoo In addition to these future Gazette, has been featured on programs and the junior class's "The Today Show", "20/20", participation in service pro­and "Nightline". jects, Shinnick said that the of­
Kilbourne will lecture on ficers are also planning to hold campus next fall in another career and placement programs joint effort by the junior class in the future. He said that he and the Office of Alcohol and hopes turnout for Tuesday's Drug Education. presentation will spark interest 
According to Mike Shinnick, in the junior class for future junior class vice president, the programs.




""'Marchof Dimes 
~ --BIIlJ'H..DEFECIS FOUNDATION-­

IHl~y 
uru.~Jh&~ll 
You big stud! 
Have a Happy Birthday! 
Love, Your Family 


uThe Recent Decline and Recovery ofDoctrine and Devotion concerning Our Lady, with some References to Apparitions" 
by Fr. Michael O'Carroll, C.S.Sp. March 28,1990-8:00 P.M. University of Notre Dame* Engineering Auditorium 
ecture on the resurgence of devotion to Our Lady i ecent years, especially in the light of the apparitions a 
atima, the miracles in Akita, Japan and Rwanda, an e reported apparitions in Medjugorje, Yugoslavia. 
r. O'Carroll is the author of five encyclopedias on piritual and doctrinal topics, including Theotokos , on 
e Mother of God. He has also written Medjugorje: acts, Dt.-::uments, Theology. 
Sponsored by Queen of Peace Ministries and Knights of the Inunaculata 
For information contact: Queen of Peace Ministries at (219) 288-8777. 
page 4 The Observer Monday, March 26, 1990 



Fire in New York social club kills 87; arson is suspected 
NEW YORK (AP) -Fire 
in the ease, said Lt. Haymond 
O'Donnell, a police spokesman. 
The district attorney's of'f'iee 
later would determine how 
many counts Gonzalez would be 
charged. 
"We believe the motive in this 
ease was the result of a dispute 
he had with a female employee 
of the club," Poliee Commis­
sioner Len Brown said at a City 
Hall news eonferenee Sunday 
evening. 
Gonzall~z emigrated in 1980 from Cuba during the Marie! boatlift that brought 125,000 Cubans to the United States. 
Police said Gonzalez went into the club about 3 a.m. and be­gan arguing with his former girlfriend, who sold tickets near the entrance. 
"lie's trying to talk her into making up, she's saying 'J.nave me alone,"' O'Donnell said. 
A club bouncer evicted thn man half an hour later. and police alleged he returned and started thn fire near the en­trance. 
The woman mnployen left be­fore the lire, Brown said. 
At least two women and one man, believed to bn the club's dise jockey, escaped. 

Social Club Fire 
Eighty-seven people died, apparently in panic and confusion, during a fire that started on the first floor of the Happy Land social club. Within minutes many died of smoke inhalation and some were trampled to death in the early morning fire. 
In their desperate attempt to escape, many were trapped in the narrow hallway leading to the only exit, which was blocked by flames. They busted down a wall to the adjoining building but could not get out. 
FIRST FLOOR LOUNGE 
AREA 
18 bodies 

Two bodies were found in~d~oo:rw:;:ay~w:hh.e;:-;:n~i---..L--..L~~~~ firemen opened the gates covering the door ENTRANCE & EXIT 
People tried to break down the 
floor to escape to building next door 

Based on preliminary reports 
Laetare 
continued from page 1 
Established at Notre Dame in 188:3, the l.aetare Medal was conceived as an American coun­terpart of the (;olden Hose, a papal honor which antedated thn II th eentury. Thn medal has been awarded annually at Notre Dame to a Catholic "whosn genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrat1~d the ideals of the Church and en­riched the heritage of human­ity." 
Among the 111 previous re­cipients of the Laetare Medal are President .John Kenn~~dy, the Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day, businessman J. Peter Grace, actress Helen Hayes, historian Msgr. John Ellis, and novelist Walker l'nrcy. Sister Bowman is the second woman religious to re­ceive a l.aetare Medal. The first was Sister Ann Ida Gannon. former president of Mundelein College in Chicago. in 1975. She is the 26th woman to receive a Laetare Medal, the first being Eliza Starr, a critic of Christian art, in 1885. 

1153 N. Dearborn St. Chicago, IL 60610 

...____ 312-951-0585 ___, 
raeed through an illegal social club early Sunday and turned a paeked danee floor into a deathtrap of smoke and name that killed 87. A man who al­legedly had earlier fought with a club worker was charged with arson and murder. 
The lire, the nation's worst in 13 years, tore through the Happy Land club. which authorities said lacked proper exits and other safeguards. 
The 3:40 a.m. lire killed 61 men and 26 women. most of them Honduran and Dominican immigrants. Most were found on the second floor. 
"People literally were stacked on top of eaeh other," said An­thony De Vita, the Fire De­partment's command chief. "It was a firetrap," he said of the two-story building in an impov­erished neighborhood near the Bronx Zoo. 
Some of the victims broke a hole through a wall to an ad­joining hall in a desperate at­tempt to save their lives, said 
Hed  Cross  worker  Margaret  
Glugover.  
Julio  Gonzalez,  36,  was  

charged with arson and murder 
AP/Cynthia Greer 
Summer 


STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 683-1959 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
2Vz MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
THE SACHS GROUP 
We are a rapidly growing healthcare software and consulting firm located outside Chicago. We currently have positions available for graduating seniors who want to gain experience in information systems, marketing, consulting and the healthcare industry. Some exposure to computers and software is preferred, particularly dBase, Excel and/or Lotus. If you are interested in this unique growth opportunity, contact the Career & Placement Office for further information or send your resume to: 
Ms. Joan Allison The Sachs Group 1800 Sherman Avenue Evanston, IL 60201 (708) 475-7526 

FRESHMAN

FRESHMAN FRESHMAN CONSULTING PERIOD MARCH 19-29, 1990 AN OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE YOUR LAST MINUTE QUESTIONS ANSWERED BEFORE YOU MUST DECLARE YOU COLLEGE PROGRAM SEE THE MARCH FRESHMAN DEAN'S NEWSLETTER SCHEDULING DETAILS DONT MISS THE OPPORTUNITY FRESHMAN FRESHMAN FRESHMAN 

Monday, March 26, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Rep. Hiler discusses change in GOP over past 20 years 
By SANDRA WIEGAND Assistant News Editor 
The Republican Party has un­dergone dramatic change in the last twenty years, according to Indiana 3rd Congressional District Rep. John Hiler. 
In the past, Hiler said, Hepublicans described them­selves by saying, "We're just like the Democrats, except we have green eye shades on and we'll do it for a little less money." 
The public will no longer ac­cept the motto. "We can do it cheaper." he said. 
lliler used the example of the childcare bill, which will be voted on by the House of Hepresentatives this week, to demonstrate how Republicans have shifted from the money consideration t.o the issue itself. 
During the Nixon Administration, he said, a simi­lar bill was proposed, and the Hepublicans objected to it on the grounds that it would cost too much. 
Now the Republicans are re­jecting the bill because it dic­tates what specific type of childcare a family should uti­lize. The bill favored by the Democrats, Hiler said, gives money to childcare providers chosen by the state, and is used toward families in which both parents work. 
"The federal government has no business telling people what kind of childcare to use," he said, and it "shouldn't reward parents for leaving home." 
"Let's be neutral," he said. 
The Republicans would not have argued over the child care bill in this manner twenty years ago, Hiler said. 

John Hiler 

Hiler favors Bush's plan, by which a $1,000 tax credit would be given to low income families with children under the 
age of six. 
The Republican Party is on an upswing, according to Hiler, and although it probably will not achieve a majority in the House by 1992, it might get very close. Hiler said he ex­pects 80 to 100 seats without incumbents to be open in the House in 1992, and believes the Republicans can capture a good number of them. 
Regarding the increasing trend in Indiana toward Democratic representatives, Hiler said, "The Democrats got elected by being better Republicans than the Republicans (were)." 
He cited as example promises by Indiana Democrats not to raise taxes and to cause re­form. 
The answer for Hepublicans, Hiler said, is to "return to their roots." Democrats are close to their high point in the state now, he said, and Republicans have hit their low, but are starting to rise again. 
Hiler addressed the issue of aid to emerging Eastern European democracies, saying that aid should be given only under two conditions: 
•The 
change in the country appears to be irreversible. 

•The 
aid is given to the pri­vate sector rather than to the government. 


He stressed that some aid is necessary, saying that after the United States has encouraged a country to struggle for democ­racy, "We have a responsibility here. We've got to put our hand out to these folks." 
Hiler, who has cut down on the amount of money he will accept from Political Action Committees during his present campaign, said that he does not see any problem with the dona­tions in general, but that "it's gotten out of balance" recently. 

Communists trail in early returns of Hungary election 
BUDAPEST. Hungary (AP) ­Hungarians voted Sunday in their first free elections after 43 years of Communist rule, and early results indicated the party would lose despite taking a lead role in democratic re­forms. 
"We will be an opposition party," said Hnzsoe Nyers, chairman of the Socialist Party, which was created by reformers to replace the old Communist Party. "This, to use a religious term, will be penance for the party." 
"We will come through it, and we will be strong," he added. 
Premier Miklos Nemeth. a Communist reformer and a key engineer of the nation's conver­sion to democracy, declared be­fore he voted that he was relin­quishing control "head high and with a clear conscience." 
A report by the official news 
agency said Nemeth won a par­
liamentary seat as an indepen­
dent in a district northeast of 
Budapest. But his party ap­
peared to have done poorly 
elsewhere. 
East Germany held Eastern 
Europe's first free elections in 
decades on March 18, and the 
Communists were rejected 
there. 
In Hungary, they competed 
with 11 other national parties 
for parliament seats. No party 
held a clear lead in the early re­
turns. 
Despite occasional showers, voter turnout appeared heavy in Budapest. Few irregularities were reported by 8 p.m., when polling stations closed. Several international observers had monitored the election. 

AIDS On The College Campus 
Richard Keeling, M.D. 
*President, AIDS Task Force American College Health Association 
* honored by Surgeon General for " outstanding leadership in the care ofpeople with HIV infection." 
* appeared on national news programs 20120, 60 Minutes, MacNeil Lehrer News Hour, Today Show, etc. 
One of the best speakers in the country on AIDS in the college age population. 
March 27, 1990 

3:00 pm & 7:00 pm Engineering Auditorium 
Sponsored by: University Health Services 
TUESDAY, MARCH 27 Lecture BISHOP THOMAS GUMBLETON "NOTRE DAME AND THE POST COLD 
WAR WORLD" 
CANCELLED 
Due to the death of his mother, the Bishop's visit has been postponed. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28 
Brown Bag Seminar 
PATRICK O'CONNELL, member of the San Jose Big Mountain Resistance and Suppor:. Group 
'THE BIG MOUNTAIN STRUGGLE: GENOCIDE OF THE NATIVE AMERICAN," 12:00 noon ­Room 110 Law School 
Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FOR 

INTERNATIONAL

111111 ~:~;;0;~~!: 

The Observer/John H. Cluver 

Students dig into the huge tub of ice cream offered on Fieldhouse Mall Saturday. The ice cream was just one of several events students enjoyed on campus Saturday. 

---~---------~-----__...........----~ -~-­
·-------------.--------­
The Observer Monday, March 26, 1990
page 6 
Two schools in Lithuania occupied by Soviet soldiers 
VILNIUS. U.S.S.H. (AP) -So­viet military commanders Sun­day sent soldiers with auto­matic weapons to occupy two Communist Party schools in Lithuania but later agreed to discuss building security with the breakaway republic. 
It was the latest escalation in the war of nerves between the Kremlin and the leadership of this Baltic republic, which de­clared itself independent March 
11. 
The commander of all Soviet ground forces, Gen. Valentin Varennikov, accused indepen­dence leaders of plotting to ar­rest Communists and send thmn to prison. 
Lithuanian President Vytautas l.andsbergis said he talked twice on the telephone with Varennikov. whose prnsenee in Vilnius was a sign of Moscow's concern with the situation in the small Baltic republic. The general reportedly said no more buildings would be taken overnight but made no promises beyond that. 
The soldiers occupind Lithua­nia's Institute of Marxism­Lmtinism and the Higher Party School. 
The republic's deputy premier. Homualdas Ozolas. said earlier he feared Soviet forces might storm Lithuania's legislative headquarters. 
Landsbergis asked for a meeting to receive an explana­tion about the building seizures, and Varennikov sent four offi­cers to the Lithuanian parlia­ment building. 
In a brief news conference afterward, Landsbergis quoted the officers as telling him the buildings had been seized at the request of Communist Party members who remain loyal to Moscow. 
"We expressed surprise and astonishment that the military can occupy buildings at the re­quest of a political organiza­tion, and we asked if such re­qw~sts come from other organi­zations whether they will fulfill them." Landsbergis said. "We did not receive a concrete an­swer." 
Although Varennikov made no promises not to seize more buildings Monday, Landsbergis said the two sides agreed to form a joint committee on con­trol of such buildings. More meetings on the issue were set for Monday morning. he said. 
Franciskas Benucius. a direc­tor of the Iligher Party School. said 30 soldiers who arrived there told him they were sent to guard the building. 
"I asked. 'What are you pro­tecting it from?' and they didn't know," he said. 


YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 
YOU'VE EARNED IT. 

Jordan's Auto Mall 609 E. Jefferson Mishawaka (219) 259-1981 
Chile 
continued from page 1 
pled with the need to keep spending down. said Bartell. 
A large foreign debt also awaits Foxley's attention. Chile's foreign debt per capita is one of the highest in Latin America. Bartell said. 
The team of advisors Foxley has assembled is comprised of three or four former visiting professors in the Kellogg Insti­tute. according to Bartell. 
Cortazar's responsibilities as Minister of Labor and Social Welfare are in "a particularly sensitive area," according to Bartell, because restrictions during the former dictatorship weakened the power of unions. 
"To restore union rights and 
encourage responsible (union) behavior" is the challenge Cor­tazor faces. Bartell said. Irre­sponsible behavior by unions or excessive demands could result in a recession or inflation. 
Bartell said that although the term of the president is four years. Foxley and Cortazar may or may not remain in office for the entire period. He explained that Ministers of Finance are 
"'With my~Idon'tjlNgetahli Igetthere titt" 
Pat Ciriacks Assistant Superintendent of Manufacturing M.M., Kellogg Graduate School of Management, Northwestern University B.S.E.E., Marquette University 
often the first to be replaced if economic trouble arises. 
"A lot depends on the success of the entire government and (the president's) policies," Bartell said. 
Outside factors such as de­mand for Chile's chief export. fruit, or the status of the cop­per industry will also play a role in the success of each offi­cial. 
Bartell explained that both professors' past experience and visibility in Chile contributed to their being chosen for cabinet positions. The fact that Foxley and Cortazar are well-respected by the different political parties also aided in their selection. 
Foxley, who headed an eco­nomic research institute called Cieplan. did extensive research on the economic policies and their deficiencies in meeting the needs of the poor during the Pinochet regime. 
Cortazar's experience was in the field of labor and wages, specifically dealing with thn role of unions in Chile. During the Pinochet regime, Cortazar ran leadership training pro­grams to prepare labor oiTi­cials in the private sector for the changes a democracy would bring. 

In manufacturing, the biggest competitor you have is the clock. Time management means everything. That's why Iappreciate my Apple® Macintosh® computer. With Macintosh, there's no wasted motion. You're productive the minute you sit down. It cuts to the chase. 
My job involves managing the efficiency of complicated manufacturing systems. How would 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 

Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Frl., 9:00-5:00 
Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. 
it look ifIused aless-than-efficient computer myselfl Macintosh lets me concentrate on what I'm doing. Ibought my first Macintosh when I was in college because Iwanted acomputer that would defer to my way ofdoing things, not the other way around. Ofall the computers I've used, Macintosh is the only one that puts me first. And that puts me way out in front. 

Bartell said that Foxley's professional reputation within the country had some people promoting him for the candi­dacy of president before the December elections. 
"Within the privatP sector, his was one of those whose names came up when guessing who would be the candidate," Bartell said. 
But Foxley's extensive experi­ence in economic areas made him the "undisputed" choice for Finance Minister, according to Bartell. 
Bartell said both professors "will represent well the kinds of values we try to foster here at Notre Dame." 
Foxley. llelen Kellogg Profes­sor in International Develop­ment. is a tenured senior pro­fessor who will rnturn to Notre Damn upon completing his du­ties in Chile. 
Cortazar was a Kellogg Insti­tute fellow and a visiting pro­fessor of economies at Notre Damn in 1986-87. While a member of the faculty. he helped direct a major research project on labor and reestab­lishment of democracy in Latin America. 
Bartell said Cortazar would be invited to return to Notre Dame as a visiting professor. 

• • 11 
M • ·H M• ·H M• ·H 


PE LE 
INCLUDES PRECISION CUT 1i SHAMPOO 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTURE .
REDKEN 
GflAPE RD .. MISHAWAKA
PROFESSIONAL 
HOURS: Daily 9-8

277-7946
PRODUCTS 
• Hair longer !han shoulder lenglh $1 0 addttional 
CCopyright a Chicago Hair Culling Co. 1990 
! 


Business 
Monday, March 26, 1990 ,page 7 
Business students to participate in Invitational Case Competition 
Special to The Observer 

Tho College of Business Ad­ministration will sponsor its ninth annual MBA Invitational Case Competition March 25-27, 1990. Hepresnntatives of the universities of Duke, Ohio State, Southern California, Texas at Austin and Notre Dame will preparn a case in corporate strategy for judging by a panel of business leaders and a distinguished professor of management. 
I~ach team consists of three studnnts who an~ candidates for an MBA degrne at their school and a faculty advisor. Thn teams rm:eiv1~ the special case on Monday morning, March 26, and have 24 hours to prepare their presPntation and dP.fPnses to th11 judges on Tues­day. Tlw order of presentation is dPterminPd by a drawing on TLwsday morning. Each team makes a 20-minutP presenta­tion which is followed by a 25­minute question period by the judges. Teams are subject to a 1wnalty if their presentation is not within two minutes of the allotted 20 minutes. 
Funded in part by a grant 

Big 3 Auto Sales 
March 11-20, 1990 
Average daily sales of cars built in 
the U.S., compared with sales in 
the same period in 1989 (percent, 
selli days only). 
CHRYSLER 

-29.9% 


AP 

from Johnson and Johnson Companies of New Brunswick, New Jersey, the competition fi­nals will take place in the audi­torium of the Center for Con­tinuing Education on Tuesday, March 27. The event is open to the public. . 
Microcomputers will be fur­nished to each team to aid them in preparing their analysis of the case. Teams may bring a maximum of ten books from the areas of accounting, fi­nance, marketing, management and business policy. The lies­burgh Library may also be used to acquire reference materials. Each team is furnished with a working room in both the CCE and the library. 
The case competition is tied to the master of business ad­ministration degree which places emphasis on the founda­tion, organization, operation and control of a business en­terprise with special attention to the manager's responsibility for diagnosing, isolating and defining problems, creating and evaluating courses of action, and making practical and ethi­cal decisions. 
The head judge this year will be Sameul Certo, a scholar in management/strategic man­agement from Rollins College, Florida. 

The business judges are; Jonathan Housand, President, Ameritrust National Bank, Elkhart; James Lohman, Presi­dent and CEO, Excel Industries, Inc.. Elkhart; Michael Longua, Director, International Recruit­ing and Personnel Development, Johnson and Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey; and Randy McAlister, Director, Corporate Organizational De­velopment, Miles, Inc., Elkhart. 
Each team will have a faculty advisor who will be present at the competition to serve as an observer only. 
A member of the student co­ordinating group will be as­signed to each team to answer questions, aid in locating facil­ities and supplies. 
Representing Notre Dame this year will be Thomas Kelly, Reiaz Somji, and Melvin Tardy. The team was selected by a panel of five professors in the college of business administra­tion in an intra-college compe­tition early in March. 
KFC cancels ads as sales take company by surprise 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) ­Kentucky Fried Chicken's new Hot Wings have proven too hot to handle. 
A huge demand without a huge supply has forced KFC to halt its 2-week-old national television advertis­ing campaign for the spicy chicken product, the Louisville-based company said Thursday. 
Sales are running 50 per­cent above projections and the company needs time to build up its supply. 
"The strategy is to keep it a secret and not to get any new customers" while the company stocks up, said John Neal, a KFC franchisee in Tennessee and a member of the com­pany's National Advertising Cooperative. 
The hot sales also have 
prompted KFC to order its 
company-owned restau­
rants to remove promo­
tional banners and signs. 
''It's an absolute success. 
Consumers love 'em," said 
KFC spokesman Gregg 
Reynolds. "We just hope 
people will be patient when they run into short supply." 
Some KFC restaurants across the nation have re­ported being sold out. As a result, KFC has begun allo­cating the wings to its dis­tributors based on need, rather than on the number of restaurants they serve. 
KFC's restaurants had been reporting fewer cus­tomers. KFC is promoting Hot Wings as a snack to younger consumers and those who are not regular customers. 
KFC launched Hot Wings on March 5, but the na­tional advertising cam­paign did not begin until a week later. KFC has rescheduled its ads with the Fox and NBC networks, and is working with CBS and ABC to do the same. KFC had two weeks left on the TV contracts worth about $4 million. 
A decision on a new three-week TV promotion for Hot Wings scheduled to begin April 16 has not been made. 

Retail branch could change Ind. banking 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A re­value of small independent quest filed in 1987 by INB Na­banks located in communities tional Bank in Indianapolis to where another bank wants to establish a retail branch in do business. Bloomington has been approved The comptroller's ruling is at by the Office of the Comptroller odds with Indiana law, which of the Currency. allows banks to establish 
That ruling could change In­branches in their home counties diana banking, regulators say. and in contiguous counties. 
The comptroller's approval Banks also can branch allows national banks more statewide by purchasing banks geographic expansion flexibility in other counties. The ruling when considering branch loca­that was approved by federal tions in other Indiana commu­bank regulators concerns two nities. areas beyond the geographical 
By eliminating the require­boundaries of state branching ment of acquiring a bank, the law. ruling potentially decreases the The Indiana Department of Financial Institutions received the 37-page ruling Friday. The ruling was dated March 16. The department had requested a 1 0-day notice of ruling. 
"If upheld, it could have a far-ranging effect," said attor­ney Matt Neff, who specializes in banking law at Baker & Daniels. 
Neff said the ruling could enhance the value of expansion­minded banks with national charters while lowering the ac­quisition value of independent banks, both state and national. 
When INB made its request to establish a Bloomington branch, the bank argued that since Indiana law allows state­chartered savings and loans to branch statewide, commercial banks should be allowed the same rights. 
INB said state-chartered savings and loans are engaged in banking as defined by the McFadden Act, a 1927 federal law giving states the power to regulate bank branching. 
Since filing the 1987 applica­tion, INB has established three branches in Bloomington as the result of its merger with Mor­gan County Bank & Trust Co. 

Hand-held computers keep American executives ahead 
As American businesses 
struggle to stay ahead of 
international competition in 
the 1990s, the bird in the 
hand will increasingly be­
come the computer in the 
palm. 
Corporate America, which already has automated its offices, factories and ware­houses, in recent months has stepped up the technological process to begin computeriz­ing its salespeople. The mushrooming trend renders 1wen more quaint the belief of Willie Loman, the self-de­luding protagonist of Arthur Miller's "Death of a Sales­man," that the chief things a fellow needed to succeed on the road were a shoeshine and a smile. 
These days the solitary salesperson is rapidly be­coming a computerized ex­ecutive, to whom the tradi­tional pencil and invoice may soon be as obsolete as the homburg hat. 
Hundreds of companies such as Frito-Lay, Nabisco, Kraft, Procter & Gamble, Hanes and L'Egg panty hose have equipped their sales forces with hand-held com­puters --spinoffs of the fa­miliar personal tabletop versions --to cut paper work. monitor sales, track inventory and deliver a daily report to corporate head­quarters on how their prod­ucts are selling. 
Frito-Lay's president, Robert Beeby, tells me that his company estimates it has saved $20 million annually since its route salespeople went on line in 1988 --and "more importantly" has gained access to an immedi­ate "depth of knowledge" previously unavailable to top corporate planners. 
By now, there are roughly 2 million hand-held comput­ers in operation, a number that is growing by 20 per­cent a year and is projected by some industry observers to reach the 10 million mark by the end of the century. 
Users go beyond firms with route salespeople to in­clude such service operations as utilities, fast­food chains and local law­enforcement agencies -­which are expanding utiliza-

By Louis Rukeyser 
Tribune Media Services 
tion of hand-held computers to check speeding and parked cars to detect scofflaws, a use that spurs memories closer to Dick Tracy than Willie Loman. 
Burger King is test-mar­keting the hand-held to con­trol overstocking and reduce food spoilage. Hertz and Avis, which employ the sets at busy locations to issue fast receipts to car renters, are studying possible addi­tional uses. Federal Express is contemplating increasing the 16,000 units it uses to track millions of parcel de­liveries around the globe. 
The equipment is improv­ing, too. IBM and Motorola have joined forces to market a more sophisticated hand­held computer that can ex­change information instan­taneously with company system without even the need for an electric socket. The system, known as Big Blue and operated by IBM for the past two years exclusively for its own work force, has a radio-power network that spans more than 90 percent of the nation. 
Till now the hand-held computer industry has been dominated by small firms such as Telexon and Sybol 
with competition from 
Japan's Rujitsu and Britain's 
Ipsion. 

The academics have begun to recognize the hand-held phenomenon. Prof. Lynda Applegate of Harvard Busi­ness School has written a case study of the system in place at Frito-Lay, conclud­ing that hand-helds give management in minutes field data that once took three or four months to gather --and thereby not only produce op­erational efficiencies but markedly shorten the con­ventional business cycle. 
Frito-Lay, a subsidiary of soft-drink giant Pepsico, has armed each of its 10,000 route salespeople with the tiny computer to monitor its 100 product offerings during the 400,000 supermarket and grocery­store sales calls it makes each week. Each day the salespeople relay their finding to the company's "executive information system" in Dallas, where managers can instantly see what's hot and what's not. 
As Beeby put it to me, " This allows hundreds of middle managers the free­dom, knowledge base and authority to initiate local market programs, while se­nior management maintains tight central control and fo­cuses on strategic direc­tion." 
In other words, the same telecommunications revolu­tion that helped bring hope to Tiananmen Square and democracy to Eastern Eu­rope in the 1980s is helping to bring futuristic efficiency to many American busi­nesses in the 1990s. With the bird in the hand truly flying on electronic wings,there will now be no excuse for to­morrow's Willies and their bosses not to know the terri­tory. 



Viewpoint
page 8 Monday, March 26, 1990 
The -Obset:Ver-_ 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regts Coccta Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .. Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........ Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blast Systems Mgr Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor Eric Batley OTS Director. .............. Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Christine Gill Controller. ...Anne Ltndner 
The Observer tS the tndependent newspaper published by the students of the Untverst­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Satnt Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICieS of the admtntstrahon of etther instttutton. The news is reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as posstble Unstgned edttorials represent the opinion of the ma1onty of the followtng Edttor-tn·Chtef. Managtng Editor. Executive News Editor. Viewpotnt Editor, Sports Edttor. Accent Edttor, Photo Editor. Satnt Mary's Editor. Commentanes. letters. and lhe lnstde Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commumty and the free expression of varying opimons on campus. through letters. ts encouraged 



Government imposes values on citizens 
But what if it is? After all, Nor is this simply extreme Apparently parents become Government should decide.
By Kevin Smant those who get AIDS are virtu­fantasizing by a cranky individ­helpless to resist their chil­They know better. 
ally certain to die. What possi­ualist. For the past year or two dren's demands for sugary ce­Ultimately, it is up to us to 
"Danger! Warning! The gov­ble harm can it do to let them we have seen bitter complaints reals and expensive toys, ads decide where this will end. But ernment is determining what is try AZT--or any other drug against cigarette ads in for which are drilled into the one thing is certain: the rights dangerous to your health!" they wish, for that matter? magazines and on billboards. heads of the kids in between of smokers arc not the only 
You won't find that warning Thus, there are not only ab­Apparently, they target helpless Bugs Bunny and Scooby Doo. ones on the firing line. And in label on any packages. But per­stract constitutional rights at women and young people, who Maybe, some say, the govern­loco parentis, as an ideology, haps you should. Federal, state stake, but people's welfare. Ah, are then powerless to avoid ment should slap controls on does not only exist at Notre and local governments are but see--we're the government. starting to smoke. We should them. Unfortunately, there is Dame. rapidly assuming the role of We know better. get rid of such ads. And what no discussion of the presence nursemaid and/or nag. From The most conspicuous display about the rumbles in Congress of an on/off button on every Kevin Smant is a Graduate cabinet official Dr. Louis Sulli­of government hubris remains concerning advertising during television set. But then, who Student in the history dPpart­van lecturing us about the evils the banning of cigarette adver­Saturday morning cartoons? needs an on/off switch? ment. of cigarette smoking, to towns tisements from television. It passing ordinances instituting has now been so long that huge non-smoking areas. to many, especially here at Notre 
Myths lead to ill chemistry reputestates installing mandatory Dame, proba-bly don't even re­snat-belt laws--the message be­member a time when such ads to destroy the environment. ative and number-crunchers, comes clear: you don't know existed. And so we meekly ac­By Michelle Wozniak Obviously, there are countless whose sole purpose is to make what is good for you. But we, cept it. But what remains improvements in medicine and a perfect world by putting every the governing elite, do. frightening is where this role of Chemistry. To the average technology due to research in electron in its orbit and every 
How can one have any fun goverment-as-dietician!doctor Notre Dame student, chemistry chemistry. Unfortunately, soci-nucleon in its nuel!~us. The fact these days? It's bad 1mough we could lead. After all, cigarettes means Emil Hofman, Friday ety tends to fear chemicals due is, any chemist or scientist are constantly bombarded with are far from the only things quizzes, Maurice Schwartz, to negative associations. For must be open to new ideas and government studies proving bad for us. What about eggs? huge lecture halls, crowded example, we no longer have methods to be able to solve any that this or that food is bad for After all, they contain choles­labs, two point f!Uizzes, green "substance abuse," but probiHms. our health, or that nearly ev­terol, which causes heart dis­lab goggles, lab fees, orgo-the­"chemical abuse." As Michael Many people see seientists erything causes cancer in labo­ease, which can lead to cancer, worst-class-you '11-ever-take, Heylin editor of Chemical and and artists as two polar ratory rats. There is also the etc. Shouldn't we stop these molecule sets, Stepan and Engineering News states, groups. In reality, there are no question of people's rights. foolish Americans from swal­dumping of mysterious green "There is a chemophobia--an barriers or chasms between the 
Does the government really lowing death every morning at solutions in sewers. understandable human reaction two. A ponm, sculpturn, paint­have the right to so severely breakfast? And how dare those As a chemistry major, I have to the unknown." The only way ing. song or compound is ere­curtail the privileges of smok­reckless merchants push sugar suffered through many of the to overcome this fear is ated through attention to de­ers on airplanes? What was at us! Not only does it, too, lead above and much more. The through education. I encourage tail. All have symmetry, simplic­wrong with smoking and non­to obesity and heart attacks, purpose of this article is not to the many people who have ity and connection in common. smoking sections? Even worse, but it rots our teeth. The gov­convince you that chemistry is never stepped foot in the The desire to communicate is despite all the blather about ernment simply shouldn't allow the greatest or most difficult Stepan Chemistry Building to apparent in both art and "second-hand smoke," one an entire American generation major, nor is it an attempt to take a stroll through it and science. Both the scientist and sniffs social engineering in to have yellowing molars. After recruit new chemistry majors. I prove to yourselves that noth-the artist create out of a desire these laws: the attempt, by re­all, government knows best. would like to address a couple ing abnormal is occurring on to share new found beauty . .Just ducing the number of public Furthermore, so far we have of common myths about chem­campus. Read the ingredients as it is easy to tell a good artist places allowing smoking, to ignored the largest cause of istry and challenge the student of any salad dressing, soda or from a bad one, it is easy to tell indirectly force people to quit. death--automobile accidents. body to learn more about the candy bar and go learn what a good scientist from a bad sci­
After all, it will be good for Thousands of people die each chemistry in your everyday life. those long words actually entist. you. Trust us--we're the gov­year on America's highways. MYTH 1: Miles beneath the mean. Attend a lecture on the Do not separate science from ernment. We know better. Shall we ban automobile ads? earth, day after day, manic environment and learn what is art, but see how both are a Perhaps cigarette smokers do Or the sale of cars outright? chemists with disproportionate going on instead of letting the part of everything. I challenge not arouse pity. But how about Perhaps the surgeon general heads and giant calculators chemistry illiterate form your you to -seek to understand; to those suffering from AIDS? It will require more warning la­concoct hideous new com­opinion for you. (For those who take time to praise both the 
is unconscionable that the Food bels: "Warning. The surgeon pounds, stranger than meatless remember or care, the mysteri-artistic and the scientific and Drug Administration has general has determined that cheeseburgers on Fridays in the ous green substance that was achievements of the human held up its approval of the anti­high-speed collisions with other dining hall. reportedly poured into the mind. 
AIDS drug AZT. True, perhaps vehicles can be dangerous to A chemist's sole purpose is sewer was spinach extract.) Michelle Wozniak is a junior AZT is not a cure for AIDS. your health." not to produce new chemicals MYTH 2: Chemists are uncre-chemistry major. DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
101/NS/...Y CIWTEJ)BYANANP&IW 
TH&Rt ~ L.AN61115H&I), UN90W, UIMP~INO, H& «J45 RRSTPI.Jla[) 
FOR 17 YeARS. NOBODY, IT IN A L{}{A/., 50fJV!fi-JIR 5HOP IN 1973. 
5/:&MW, WANTW AN ANA7VM­ICAU.Y &XPUQT GAG /XJ/.-/.,. 
'He who cannot forgive others breaks the bridge over which he himself must pass.' 
Confucius 

J 





Accent 
Monday, March 26, 1990 page 9 
Festival features ND student talent 
High-speed stream of conscious film captures best picture award 
ELIZABETH VIDA accent writer 
Before any of the films began at the Second Annual Morrissey Film Festival, a interesting scene unfolded before the view­ers' eyes: more than 700 people trying to squeeze into Cushing Auditorium. which seats only 400. 
Those seats were filled by 7:15p.m., and in the 15 minutes before the show began, hundreds more claimed seats in the aisles. and on the stairs inside and outside the theater. 
A total of fifteen movies were produced for the Festival, but because the rules specify that movies not exceed eight min­utes. only the six best, plus Morrissey's own. were shown. Most of the movies were come­dies and produced by first-time movie directors. 
Two film majors, Megan Wade from PE and John Fletcher from Holy Cross, pro­duced films that were among the six chosen for the Festival. Scan Pendergast, star of Mor­rissey's "Sex, Lyons, and Video­tape." said about the films, "Movies that film majors make really helped to spice up the competition. You could see the quality of Megan's film with the synchronized music." 
PE's film, "Catholics on the Pill" was a hilarious spoof about an all-female band of Notre Dame students with a message, as is obvious about th1~ir intentionally "oxymoronic name." 
The festival featured other comedies, such as the Pangborn masterpiece "Ebert and Reed: At the Movies." Produced by Bill Thomas and Steve Blethringer, the comedy featured Roger Ebert, with a shopping cart of groceries nearby, and Rex Reed. They reviewed "The First Temptation of Christ" and "Frat-man." 
Lyons Hall residents, under the direction of Bridget Welter, were transformed into Lyons' Gladiators, modeled after the hit show, "American Gladia­tors." Various obstacles such as a herd of tourists and the beer wench, who flung danger­ous empty beer cans at the con­testants, were overcome in the dash-to-class event. 
Grace's film, directed by Chris Walsh and Chris Kitzen, and ti­tled simply, "The Date," dealt with a typical Irish date and the problems with parietals. 
"My Life as a Duck," Sorin Hall's hilarious film about life at Notre Dame seen through the eyes of a duck, was directed by Mark Conklin,who must have been thoroughly soaked after filming the segment "Morning Swim." 
Awards were given to best actress, actor, and picture. The duck in Sorin's film was the choice for best actor, and Ann Puetz from Lyons won for her portrayal as a contestant in "Gladiators." 
The best picture award was given to the very deserving en­try from Holy Cross titled, "Dreams 'N Stuff," directed by John Fletcher. After the first three movies, which were all prize to St. Hedwig's Outreach "We were really happy with comedies, "Dreams" provided a Program, the charity that the the turnout, although it's a striking contrast with its unique Festival supports. There was shame that we had to turn peo­style and serious nature. no charge for admission, but ple away. Next year we're 

The film was obviously shot donations for the tutoring pro­thinking of running the Festival by a talented and experienced gram for children in grades K-6 two nights," said Pendegrast. film major. Instead of using a were accepted. standard home video camera, The evening was a monetary "I think it's a good tradition Fletcher utilized a normal film as well as an artistic success, as because it's a campus-wide camera, and then transferred it Morrissey raised over $800 for event, and each dorm can par­to video, giving the film a pro­St. Hedwig's. ticipate." fessional look. 
With Terence Trent D'Arby's "If You All Get to Heaven" playing in the background, like a music video, a dream of a sleeping Domer unfolds as he flies above St. Mary's lake at 100 miles an hour, across cam­pus. It was shot in time-lapse photography, one frame at a time, giving it a high-speed ef­fect. 
The audience was amazed by aerial views of the campus, a three-second flight from 0' Shaughnessy to Lyons above South Quad, clouds whizzing by, all with a symbolic overtone as D'Arby sang, "save a prayer... for me." Shots of the stained glass in Sacred Heart Church appeared, as did an eerie shot of a cemetery, starving children, Reagan, Gorbachev. 
The film also had animation. The whole effect of the film was otherworldly, ethereal and very striking. By the end of the film, the audience burst out in a loud round of applause for a solid minute or two. It was no sur­prise that "Dreams" won best picture, and when Fletcher stepped forward to accept his award, he received a standing ovation. 
Fletcher donated his $100 
TV's new first family: 'The Simpsons' 


Joe Bucolo 

To be continued... 
The Flintstones and The Jetsons are television's two most famous cartoon families. Now, there's a third -The Simpsons. 
The Fox Television Network (Channel 32 in Chicago) pre­sents TV's newest cartoon family on Sundays at 8:30. Unlike "The Flintstones" and "The Jetsons," "The Simpsons" is set in modern day society. In fact, it's the show's tackling of problems facing today's families that gives it its sparkle. 
The Simpsons are a family of five. Homer is the head of the household. He's an intriguing man, molded by the material­ism and corruption of today's world, but caring enough to value his family. His wife, Marge, is the model mother. She encourages Homer to at­tend church and sends her kids to Sunday school. 
Maggie, the youngest of the Simpson youths, spends each week sucking the life out of her pacifier. That's her destiny. Lisa, the middle child, is the in­telligent one trying to live a "straight and narrow" life. 
And then there's Bart. His name says it all. He's Mike Seaver of "Growing Pains," in cartoon form, which enables him to wreak much more havoc. Undoubtedly, he's the viewers' favorite. 
Each episode presents a few incidents in each of the charac­ters' lives. However, that de­scription doesn't do the show justice. The beauty of "The Simpsons" (in addition to Marge's hair,) is that it adds hilarious twists to everyday sit­uations. The characters do things viewers have always wanted to do, but never had the guts to carry out. 
'The characters do things viewers have always wanted to do,butneverhad the guts to carry out.' 

Two incidents stand out as typically hilarious Simpson sit­uations. Marge is yelling at Homer to hurry up so they won't be late for mass. Homer, however, wants to listen to the football game. Thus, he wears a Walkman to mass. In the middle of the sermon and much to Marge's embarrassment, Homer jumps up yelling 'Touchdown!" 
Meanwhile, Bart is in Sunday school where the teacher is ex­plaining that only people go to heaven. Of course, Bart decides to interrogate the poor woman. 
If a person's in a war, gets gangrene, and has a leg amputated, Bart asks, will the leg be waiting for him in heaven? He continues, "What about a robot with a human brain?" 

After a cutaway to church, the storyline returns to the school room. The teacher is holding her head in her hands slowly saying to Bart, "The ven­triloquist would go to heaven ... and the dummy wouldn't!" 
At another time, Bart asks Homer if being popular is im­portant. "Being popular," Bart explains in all his wisdom, "is the most important thing in the world." This statement sends Bart on a journey to impress his new friends and ends as he saws the head off a statue of the town's founder. 
The artwork on the show contributes immensely to the show's appeal. The funny, dis­torted figures of the characters are humorous. Some of Bart's facial expressions are priceless, and everyone will laugh at Marge's hair as it sticks up -· from under the covers while she sleeps at night. 
Matt Groening, creator of "Life in Hell," is responsible for this cartoon family that makes Bundy family of "Married ... With Children " seem melan­choly. Perhaps that's why "The Simpsons" is Fox's highest rated show. 
"The Simpsons" is sure to en­tertain audiences. It's a hilari­ous, well-written and well­drawn show worthy of the cult following it has already ac­quired. Don't listen to the Walkman during this show. Save that for mass. 
~----------------~--~~~--~~~------~--~~~----------~~-------------------------------------------------­
page 10 The Observer 
Virginia stuns Vols to reach finals 
(AP)-It took Virginia five tries, but the Cavaliers finally beat Tennessee whnn it mat­tlm~d. 
"WP were rmdly loose and felt good coming into the game," coach Debbie Hyan said after tlw Atlantic Coast champions upset the Volunte!~rs 79-75 in overtime Saturday to earn their first trip to thn Women's Final Four. 
The Cavaliers had lost their four previous meetings with the Lady Vols in NCAA tournament play, but Hyan said those losses had no effect on hnr team. 
"I fplt we had donn our job." slw said. "After all. we're the No. 2 sePd in tho region and we got to where we're supposed to be. You hate to lose, but I never felt n~al down after those pre­vious losses because they had a bettPr team. It wasn't lik1~ we wnre supposed to win all those ganws and we didn't." 
Sophomore Dawn Staley. the n~gional's most valuable player, scon~d 25 points for the Cava­
•

Bedford WinS Indiana HS tourney
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Damon Bailey, tlw greatest scorer in Indiana high school basketball history, ended a sto­rybook career with 30 points Saturday night as Bedford North Lawrence rallied in the final two minutes to a 63-60 victory over top-ranked and previously un beatnn Concord for the state tourney champi­onship. 
Bedford (29-2). playing in the tourney Final Four for the tiers (26-5), including six of the nine in the extra period. Tonya Edwards led the Vols (27-6) also with 25 points. 
"It's a dream come true," said Staley, who wore No. 44 on the back of her sneakers in memory of Loyola Marymount star Hank Gathers, who grew up in the same Philadelphia neighborhood as Staley. "You play in the playgrounds and dream of going to the Final Four." 
The loss cost Tennessee a chance to play the Final Four on its home floor. The national semifinals and finals will be held Friday and Sunday in Knoxville, and though 18,000 seats have been sold for the Fi­nal Four, a tournament-record crowd of 25,000 was expected if the Lady Vols had advanced. 
"The sun came up but it wasn't very bright," said Joan Cronan. director of women's athletics at Tennessee. "I think we'll still do a good job. All along, we've been saying, the event will be great basketball. But everyone around town ex­pected the Lady Vols to auto­matically be there. 
'Til be a happy person if we can draw 16,001," Cronan said. That's one morn than the top capacity allowed at Denver for the men's Final Four. 
Virginia will meet Stanford (30-1 ), which buried Arkansas 114-87 to set a West region scoring rec.ord, in Friday night's first semifinal. Trisha Stevens led Stanford with 24 points while Demonica Dellor­ney scored a career-high 39 points for the Hazorbacks. 
It will also be Stanford's first trip to the finals. 
"This shows the parity this year," Ryan said. "Ten years ago, nobody would have thought it possible that a Stan­ford or a Virginia could go to the women's finals." 
Two familiar foes will meet in the other semifinal. 
third time in Bailey's career, captured its first state title and gave Concord (28-1) its second runner-up linish in three years. 
The 6-foot-3 Bailey, who will attend Indiana University in the fall, was named Most Valuable Player in the tournament, played for the first time in the lloosier Dome before a record crowd of more than 41 ,000. 
Concord. trying to become the seventh undefeated champion and first since Marion in 1985, was led by the 20 points of Jamar Johnson, also a starter on the Minutemen's runner-up team of 1988. 
Concord led 58-52 with 2:38 to go, but Bailey scored the fi­nal 11 Bedford points, including two free throws and a basket and free throw that pulled the Stars within one. Bailey's next basket put the Stars in front 59-58, and a basket by Johnson gave Concord its last lead at 60-59 with 47 seconds to go. 
SPORTS BRIEFS The NO baseball team swept Butler in a doubiPheader this weekend, 3-1 and 4-2. The Irish are now 12-4 on tlw season and have won 11 of their last 12. Details will ap­pear in tomorrow's Observer. 
The Notre Dame softball team edged Dotroit twice in weekend action, winning both by scores of 1-0. Missy Linn and Staci Alford pitched tlw Irish victories. Details will appear in tomorrow's Observer. 
Sign-ups for women's bookstore basketball will be lwld today from 6-9 p.m. in the Sorin Hoom of Lafortune and thn lobby of Haggar Hall at St. Mary's. The fen is $5.00 pPr team. 
Anyone interested in signing up a mud volleyball team 
for Antostal. call Naeibe or Caryn at 1093. Cost is $7 per team. 
Interested Sports Writers for the remainder of this year and next fall should attend th1~ nnw sports writers' meeting next Wednesday. March 28 at 7 p.m. at the Observer. 
All captains of the NVA Men's Spring Soccer Tournament 
must pick up sclwdules from NVA imrm~diaWiy.l'lay begins Wednesday, March, 28. 
The Water Polo Club will haw a mandatory practice today . Weekend plans will bn discussed. 
Mud Volleyball captain's meeting will be tonight at 9 p.m. in the Montgomery Thnatre in Lafortune. 
Interested Sportscasters who want to join tlw WVFI (640­am) sports staff should attend an informational mnHing next Tuesday, Mach 27 at 9 p.m. in the WVFI station on tlw seeond floor of Lafortune. Questions'? Call Vie at 283-2924. 
The Bookstore Basketball captain's meeting will bn lwld tonight at Cushing Auditorium from 7-9 p.m. 
The Cycling Club will have a meeting Tuesday in llw Sorin B.oom of Lafortune at 7 p.m. Bring money for jersey. Plans for upcoming races will be discussed. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team held its Awards Banquet on Sunday. Karen B.obinson was nanwd Most Valu­able Player. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary·s office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
NOTICES  WANTED  ATTENTION: POSTAL JOBS I Start $11.41 /hour! For application info  FOR SALE  RAMADA INN of Elkhart has rooms tor Graduation weekend. Located  SAVE THE BOO SOCKS! SAVE THE BOO SOCKSI  
EXPERT TYPING $3/PG 291·3829 WORDPROCESSING 272·1837 MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping. Packaging, Copies. Resumes from $15.00. 277·MAIL INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund in 3 Days to 2 Weeks! MAIL BOXES ETC. 277·6245 $$$FOR TEXTBOOKS! PANDORA"S BOOKS Corner of ND ave and Howard 233·2342  CAMP STAFF: 21+. Coed. sleepaway camp, Massachusetts. Some key positions avail. Also: WSI. lifeguard. arts & crafts. all land and water sports. fitness. gymnastics, piano/play tor shows. drama. judo. dance, tennis, archery, photoqraphy. computers, model rocketry. guitar. radio, video. yearbook. newspaper. wilderness. woodwork, RN typist. 6/18·8/20. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd. Eastchester, NY 10707. 800/955·CAMP. OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 mo.Summer.Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52·1N04. Corona Del Mar. CA 92625.  call (1) 602-838·8885, Ext. M· 6262, 6am·10pm, 7 days. BE ON T.V. many needed tor commercials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info. Call (615)779-7111 Ext. T·1481. SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800·343·8373 INTERVIEWING IN LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER WEDNESDAY. MARCH 28,9 AM­4PM. CRUISE SHIPS now hiring all positions. Both skilled and unskilled. For information Call  ATTENTION· GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords. Mercedes. Corvettes. Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1·602·838·8885 Ext.A6262 FOR SALE ...FOR SALE FINALLY THOSE NYLON SWEATPANTS YOU'VE BEEN SEARCHING FOR ... NAVY W/ GRN& YLW STRIPE. FULLY LINED W/ SIDE ZIPPER. PULL·OVER JACKET TOO. CALL X2855 TO ORDER TICKETS Hey Seniors, Tell your parents to order all four  at Toll Road Exit #92, Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend). Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd .. Elkhart, IN 46514. CARING. CHILDLESS COUPLE DESPERATELY WISHES TO SHARE OUR LIFE, HOME AND MUCH LOVE WITH YOUR WHITE NEWBORN. LET US HELP EACH OTHER REALIZE OUR DREAMS. EXPENSES PAID. PLEASE CALL KATHY AND LARRY COLLECT AT (201) 635-1307. DINNER THEATRE EAT REAL FOOD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! SPAGHETTI WORKS MARCH 26 ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB  SAVE THE BOO SOCKS! HELP I Need ride to I.U.· Bloomington the weekend of March 31! Will pay. Call Lynn at x4940. SHELLEY. Welcome back to ND. This year has not been the same without you. Thank you for the wonderful 13.5 months we have shared together and to many more in the future. Don't you ever forget how much ·I LOVE YOU! BOB CLUB 23 GOOD MUSIC DIFFERENT FOOD LIVE PEOPLE  
Responsible.adult male. non· smoker, non·drinker will house sit June thru Aug. References. Call after 7pm 1-6t6-465·6292 STUDENTS! Do you dread putting your resume together? This is the  WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OR BIG SCREEN TV PLUS RAISE UP TO $1.400 IN JUST 10 DAYS!!! Objective: Fundraiser Commitment: Minimal Money: Raise $1.400 Cost: Zero Investment  (615) 779-5507 Ext. R·200. Ball State student needs apt. for summer. 317·747-9755 David. !!!BASEBALL CARDS WANTED!!! If you have any baseball cards that you would like to sell, I have  GRADUATION TICKETS. Because I need 4 extra tickets and will pay CASH tor any seat anywhere. So after break call me at 256-9374 and get your mula. I NEED GRAD TKTS $$DAVE P. 3270  TIX AT LAFORTUNE DESK $6 STUDYING DONE IN HALF THE TIME ·· OR GET TWICE AS MUCH  GOOD FOOD DIFFERENT PEOPLE LIVE MUSIC GOOD PEOPLE DIFFERENT MUSIC LIVE FOOD The quote of the year from  
easiest resume you'll ever do. Just send $10 today tor Resume's Made Easy! P.O. Box 41064. Fort Wayne. Indiana 46804  Campus organizations, clubs. frats, sororities call OCMC: 1 (800) 932·0528/1 (800) 950· 8472. Ext. 10.  some desparate little brothers who want to expand their collection! Call Kelly at 4985 Thanks!  Need miracle tickets for Uniondale. N.Y. Dead shows on 3/29-30. Call with info for money. x3684.  DONE IN THE SAME TIME. CALL 234-2718 TO LEARN HOW. Everyone be sure to remember to  Joe Z. (the Male Slut): "OOPS... I think we broke something ...:· Personals war begins .....  
·­- KNUTE ROCKNE'S HOUSE Summer Rental 4/5 bdrm. 2bth. furnished 913 Leland X4420 LOST/FOUND LOST: KEYS ON A t988 NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP KEYCHAIN. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL CATHY AT 4841. THANKS. LOST: Gold "Monogram" Ring in the basement bathroom in the library on the Thursday of Break. It found. please call Dave at 232· 9365 or just give it to library security. LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORTH QUAD BY NDH. REWARD SEAN 2073 Lost: Brown wallet if found call x417 4 Thanks.  SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE ENVIRONMENT Earn $2,500· $3,500. National campaign positions to pass Clean Air Act. stop toxic pollution. tighten pesticide controls & promote comprehensive recycling. Available in 18 states & D.C. Call Kate at 1·800-75·EARTH Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading books at home. Call615· 473-7440 Ext. B340 ATIENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32.000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602· 838·8885 Bk6262 NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE any weekend·ext 1938 ATTENTION·HIRING! Government jobs· your area. $17,840·$69,485. Call 1·602·838·  WANTED: 1 or 2 girls to live at Lafayette Square townhouses next year. It interested please call Beth or Jill at #2722 or #2723 FOR RENT Student house 5 bdrms call Dan early 233·1 099 LARGE FOUR BEDROOM HOME COMPLETELY FURNISHED. AVAILABLE FOR JUNE OR AUGUST. 234·9364. HOUSE FOR RENT WALKING DISTANCE FROM ND 232-3616 SUMMER SUBLET CHEAP Walk to campus, pool etc.. 2bdrms. call 277·7496 GRAD STUDENTS! CLEAN 1·BDRM. APT. NEAR  I PERSONALS J Parrot Heads Forever!!! STUDENTS... JUST DO IT!!!!! Take advantage of student discounts on IBM PS/2's. Visit the ND G;omputer Store for more details. SENIORS GRADTIXS I need extras! Will pay $BIG BUCKS $ Call Margo x4189 $5.00 HAIRCUTS!!!!!!!!!!!!!  wish Debbie Meek a Happy 21st Birthday tomorrow! HEY EVERYONE--­Did you know that DAVE FISHER is going to Senior Formal??? If you see him be sure to congratulate him on his big decision!!! DAVE FISHEW •• DAVE FISHER DAVE FISHEW •• DAVE FISHER We hear you"re going to Senior Formal with Carolyn--so does this mean we can have your Tom Petty tickets for April 7? hiag BEAUX ARTS UNDERGROUND  Who will be UGLY MAN ON CAMPUS? An Tostel '90 MODELS NEEDED FOR ADVANCED HAIRCUTTING CLASS. CALL COSIMO'S 277·1875. APRIL B·DAYS: RM and TM with special appearances by RG and CY. Seniors who go out with a bang! Hey Glo R.! Congrats on the engagement! The 91 ChEgs CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP Any Finance major interested in going on the Finance Club Chicago Trip, April19 & 20, must attend meeting Wed. March 28, 6:45 in HH Aud. Otherwise call Maureen x4667.  
Lost: small green stenographer's  8885 Ext. R62t'l2­ CAMPUS. KIT. & UTIL. FURN. $330 MO. 234·9871.  Vito's Barbershop  UNDERGROUND  CHICAGO TRIP  CHICAGO TRIP  
notebook  ATTENTION: EARNING MONEY  1523 Lincolnwav West  HI MAGGIE  
was left in South Dining Hall has Italian notes in it.  WATCHING TV! $32,000/year income potential. Details, (1) 602·  Two (2) houses available tor rent. Close to Notre Dame. Call 232·  South Bend  SENIORS · DESPERATELY NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL  
call x4174.  838·8885 Ext. TV·6262  5411 for more information.  233-4767  PAY CASH. Michelle 2677  Valentines  

------~---~------~---~--­
---------------.---------~--------------­
Scoreboard page 11
Monday, March 26, 1990 
NBA STANDINGS 
FINAL FOUR COUNTDOWN 1990 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division 
2nd Round: Reglonals Reglonals w L Pel Streak 
March 17-18 
Philadelphia 44 26 _629 Won4 
SOUTHEAST 
Boston· 41 26 .612 11/2 Won5 New York 39 28 .582 3 1/2 Lost6 



Michigan State Connecticut Washington 25 43 .368 18 Lost! Miami 16 54 .229 28 Wont 
Connecticut New Jersey 15 53 .221 28 LositO 
········:~i:;:;:t-~i~i9.a.n~mte I
Central Division x-Detroit 51 18 .739 Lost3 Chicago 44 23 .657 6 Lostt 

~·~{~. :~~­
Milwaukee 36 32 .529 141/2 Lostt Indiana 34 34 .500 16 1/2 won3 
-'~1 .. ~1···
36 .471 18 1/2 Wont La5ai1El_________ _ Atlanta 32 
Wont 

--~~r!!i<~:_!.~~r 1
Cleveland 31 36 .463 19 
Orlando 17 51 .250 33 1/2 Lost2 East Rutherford, N.J. Minnesota March 22 & 24 St. John's
WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division 

----------------. I Minnesota 
w L Pel Streak x-Utah 50 19 .725 Won4 San Antonio 46 21 .687 3 Won5 
N. Iowa Dallas 38 29 .567 11 Won4 
--~u.~-~------------1 '"~ ':: 
VtrginiaDenver 36 32 .529 13 1/2 Lost2 
Houston 32 36 .471 17 1/2 Lostt 
u~~-----------~-----------------­

32 Lost5Minnesota 17 50 .254 
:.::::::~:ra.~.u~e 1----~yracuse
Charlotte 13 54 .194 36 Lostt 
Kansas Paclflc Division x-L.A. Lakers 50 758
16 Won3 
x-Portland 49 19 .721 2 Wont 
WEST MIDWEST
Phoenix 46 21 .687 41/2 Won2 Seattle 34 33 .507 16 1/2 Lostt OklahomaUNLVGolden State 31 36 463 19 1/2 wont 

North Carolma I----------------­

L.A. Clippers 26 43 .377 25 1/2 LastS 
Sacramento 22 46 .324 29 Wont x-clinched playoM berth 
-------~-~~~~J UNLV 
Arkansas 
--1. -...---..--f-!~~~-~~~r~lma

Sunday's Games 
Late Games Not Included Miami 105. Milwaukee 102 
Ball State Dallas 98. Detroit 96. OT 
Ball State Minnesota at Portland. (n) 
---------~~~IS~~~~e I 
-·~--r::

Seattle at Los Angeles Lakers. (n) Monday"sGames 
Dallas New Jersey at Charlotte, 7:30p.m. 
March 22 & 24 Denver at Atlanta. 7:30p.m. 
Xavier (Ohio) Sacramento at Cleveland. 7:30 p.m. 
Loyola (CaL) Phoenix at Ch1cago. 8:30p.m. San Antonio at Houston. 8:30p.m. Minnesota at Los Angeles Clippers. 10:30 p.m. 
Texas 
NHL STANDINGS 
Alabama 





c::·,:~:=
Alabama

WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division w L T Pts GF GA 
Arizona 
y-NY Rangers 35 28 13 83 265 252 y-New Jersey 34 34 8 76 277 279 Washington 34 37 5 73 276 266 . Pittsburgh 32 38 7 71 309 348 Philadelphia 30 38 9 69 283 286 RESULTS SPORTS CALENDAR NY Islanders 29 37 11 69 267 279 Adams Division Marrh 23-25 Monday, March 26 Friday, March 30 y-Boston 44 25 7 95 278 225 Fencing hosts NCAA tournament, Angela Sports Men's golf at Kentucky Invitational. Lexington. Ky. y-Bulfalo 41 27 8 90 268 237 Baseball (12-4} Center (SMC). Lacrosse at San Diego State Tournament. Notre 
y-Montreal 40 28 9 89 280 229 Notn• name 3, Buller 1 Dame vs. Air Force. y-Hartford 37 32 7 81 266 259 Notre Dame 4. Butlpr 2 Tuesday, March 27 Quebec 12 57 31 230 387 
Fencing hosts NCAA tournament, Angela Sports 

Mf'n's trnnis Center (SMC). Saturday, March 31 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Notre name 9. Purdue 0 Men's tennis at Indiana, 3 p.m. Baseball vs. SAINT LOUIS, Coveleski Stadium Norris Division Baseball vs. ILLINOIS. Coveleski Stadium (ESPN) 
w L T Pts GF GA Women's tennis (10-6} Wednesday, March 28 Men's tennis at Miami (Ohio). 11 a.m. y-Ch1cago 39 32 6 84 304 285 NotrP Damt~ 7. PurduP 2 Baseball at Purdue, 3 p.m. Women's tennis at Michigan State. 1:30 p.m. y-St. Louis 36 32 9 81 287 266 Notre DamP 8. MarquettP 1 Lacrosse at San Diego State Tournament. y-Toronto 37 35 4 78 322 339 Indiana 8. Notre Dame 1 Thursday, March 29 Championship/Consolation. Minnesota 34 38 4 72 270 276 Men's golf at Kentucky Invitational. Lexington, Ky. Men's golf at Kentucky Invitational, Lexington. Ky. Detroit 28 36 13 69 279 309 l.arrosse (3-:1) Softball vs. LOYOLA (2). 3:30p.m. Softball at Bradley (2). 2 p.m. Smythe Division Notre Damr 12, Wooster 8 
x-Calgary 3 9 2 3 15 93 330 257 ~Edmo~on 36 27 14 86 305 274 Softball y-Winnipeg 36 31 9 81 288 279 Notre DamP 1 . Detroit 0 y-Los Angeles 3 4 3 6 6 74 327 318 NotrP DamP 1 . Detroit 0 TRANSACTIONS Vancouver 24 40 13 61 235 296 
x-clinched division title Wom<-n's fE"ncing FOOTBALL HOCKEY 
y-clinched playoff berth Nolrt~ Damf' 9. Pennsylvania 4 National Football League National Hockey League­Sunday's Games Notno DamP Y. Penn State 1 NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Signed Ilia HARTFORD WHALER&-Recalled Jim Late Game Not Included Wayne• State 9, Notm Dame 4 Jarostchuk, linebacker. McKenzie, left wing, from Binghamton of 
the American Hockey League.
New York Rangers ?. Philadelphia 3 Chicago 3, Detroit 2 Mf."n's f(•ndngWashington 4, Calgary 1 Hartford 4. Pittsburgh 2 
Sabre team linished s<wnnd to Columbia . --..,
New Jersey 4. Buffalo 3 Winnipeg at Vancouver. (n) 
·------------------------------------~
: 20% Discount : 
: TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY :
THE SUMMER SESSIONS 
FIRSf SESSION: I I

BE PARr 
6weeks beginning May 21. 1990 
SECOND SESSION: 
6weeks beginning July 2. 1990
OF AGREAT 
0 Dav or evening classes 0 Courses in Business. Arts and Sciences. Education. Nursing.
UNIVERSI1Y 0 All courses applicable to Loyola L:niver~ity degrees 
0 Classes at the Lake Shore.
r---------------------, 
Water Tower. and Medical Center Campuses. 0 Register using any Touch -Tone

lllns SUMMERJ 
I telephone in the country. 
1 The Summer Sessions To receive your free copy of the 1990 I.o1nla l'niversity of Chicago Bulletin of The Summer Sessions. send R20 :\onh ~tichigan Avenue. Chtcago. JL 60611 coupon or call 312-91S-6SOI. 
LOYOLA 

?tm·. UNIVERSITY
.' ~ 
:s: o:: CHICAGO 
)> 0 
'0 (i
~~M·V~\' 
Cill 

THE SUMMER SESSIONS 820 North Michigan Avenue Chicago. IL 606ll 
• Eye Exams • Large Selection of Frames -All Types of Contacts 
-~ ­.==. 

-== == 

Professional Vision Dr. Ronald Snyder
1635 N. Ironwood 
and Associates 

North of McDonald's 277-1161 
ATTENTION JUNIORS! The PICTURES from the JPW SLIDE SHOW can be picked up in the Junior Class Office during office hours. 
.....
They are sorted according to last name. Questions? Call Wendy at x2 798 
... 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
--~---­

The Observer Monday, March 26, 1990 
Women go 2-1 over weekend 

Final 4 
continued from page 16 

trips, to North Carolina in 1977 
and Indiana in '87. 

Loyola's emotional trip. meanwhile, nnded after three victories and its deepest march ever into the NCAA tournament. It was all dedicatnd to Gathers, a star for the Lions who col­lapsed in a game and died on March 4 of heart disease. 
Bo Kimble, a close friend of Gathers' as well as teammate, scored 42 points, including B 3-pointers. 
SOUTHEAST 

No. 9 Georgia Tech 93, 
No. 20 Minnesota 91 

Dennis Scott. K1mny Anderson and Brian Oliver scored all but four of Georgia Toch's points as the Yellow Jackets earned tlwir first trip to the Final 
Four. 

·· Bl'lievc it or not, that's not that unusual with this tnam," Georgia Tech coach Bobby Cremins said. "We had that happon several times this sea­son." 
"Them doing all tlw scoring is not designated. It's some­thing that happens and just eorncs naturally." 
Seott scored 40 points, An­derson 30 and Oliver 19. 
Minnesota (23-9), making the round of eight for the first ,time, was thn last of a record..,. 


Hours Mon -Frl 8:00-5:30 Sol. 8:00-l:OO 

MAPLE LANE BARBER SHOP 
2112 South eond Avonuo South eond, IN 46637 
272-6722 
Next to Coech"s 


Sumnwr loh!-

OIIer 50.000 summer Job opentngs al Resor1s. Camps. Amusement Parks. Bus1nesses. CruiSe L1nes. Ranches. and more 1n the U.S .. Canada. 
Australia. and 20 olher counlnes. Complete d~reotory only $19 95. Oon1 wOII 11llaher finalS. Send to Summer Jobs. Drawer 38039. Colorado Spnngs. CO 8093 7 
By BARB MORAN 
Sports Writer 

The women's tennis team boosted its record to 10-6 over the weekend by defeating Pur­due and Marquette by wide margins and taking a tough loss to Indiana. 
The Irish beat Purdue Friday on the road 7-2, but the thrill of victory was. clipped when a tough Hoosier squad dealt the Irish a harsh 8-1 defeat Satur­day. Notre Dame ended the weekend on a high note, how­ever, by smashing MCC rival Marquette 8-1 at home yester­day. 
The Purdue win was a valu­able one for the Irish, seeking to prove their prowess against the tough Big Ten teams. The victory is even more precious when one considers the condi­tion of Purdue's facilities. 
"The place was dark and we played on carpet," said Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback. "We played well for as tough as it is to play under those condi­tions." 
The only sour note of the Purdue match was the defeat of top-seed Tracy Barton in the singles competition. Barton, Notre Dame's top contender for an NCAA bid, made up for her poor showing at Purdue with a dynamic singles victory at Indiana. Barton beat top Hoosier Deb Edelman, ranked first in the region and 18th in 
the nation, in a thrilling three­
set match, 6-4, 5-7, 6-4. 

The rest of thn team did not 
farn as well against the 
Hoosiers. 

"I was a littln disappointed that we only got orw match against Indiana, but we played nmlly well and rnally hard," he said. "EviHl though we lost, we lost a lot of dose· matehns." 
The Irish, though injured and wnary from the four-match stretch which included a win over Western Michigan last Thursday, mustered up enough strength to bnat Marqw~tte 8-1 at Eck Pavilion. Barton,with an elbow injury, sat out the match and saw Melissa Harris capture the top-seed singles victory 6-4, 6-2. 
seven Big Ten teams in the field  they have  never  won  the  na­ "But  wn've  nevp,r  won  one.  not only sent Arkansas to the  
of 64.  tional championship. They lost  That's the next step. We want  Final Four but gavn the Hazor  
The game was the 23rd so far  in  the championship game in  to win one."  backs their first "30-win s1mson  
in the tournament to be decided  1964, '78 and '86.  The play that put the ball in  since 1978. Lnnzie !lowell was  
by three points  or  less.  Min­ Duke beat Connecticut (31-5)  Laettner's hands for the final  the regional MVP, scoring 25  
nesota had a chance to win, but  on Christian Laettner's 15-foot  shot was called from the side­ points against North Carolina  
Kevin Lynch's 3-point attempt  jumper at the buzzer, becoming  lines  by  Duke  eoach  Mike  and 21 against Texas (24-9}.  
from  the  side  missed  at  the  the first school since Houston  Krzyzewski with 2.6 seconds to  "Lenzie Howell has  comn  to  
buzzer.  in 1982-83-84 to  make three  play.  Laettner  inbounded  to  his  hometown  time and  tinw  
EAST  straight Final Four trips.  Brian Davis, took a return pass  again and proven he is probably  
No. 15 Duke 79,  "It's great to be able to say  and hit his shot.  one of the b1~st  players in thP  
No. 3 Connecticut 78  I've  been  to  the  Final  Four  MIDWEST  country,"  Arkansas  coaeh  
The Blue Devils  are  in their  three  of  four  years,"  said  No. 7 Arkansas 88,  Nolan Hichardson said. "Not in  
third  straight Final  Four and  Duke's Alaa  Abdelnaby,  who  Texas 85  the Southwest Confnrence ­ in  
seventh since  1963, although  had 27 points and 14 rebounds.  The  regional championship  the country."  

SEVEN TASTY WAYS fr TO IMPROVE A ~ i COLLEGE EDUCATION.:{ 








Mon. Thurs. 
lt"s a pizza lover's dream come true. Every
r·-~········-----·-···-, 
r······-····-----------,
BEAT THE CLOCK day this week. you can get a special offer THICK THURSDAY from Domino's Pizza"' Whether it's free extra 
Present this coupon and receive 

Order 1 large original pizza with crust or a free small cheese pizza, there's 
1 medium pizza smothered in dleese 1 toppinQ between 4 and 7 PM more reasons to make this the week for a and pepperoni.and the tlme on the clock is the 
special treat from Domino's Pizza. So whyprice that you pay. 
PAN $6.00 ORIGINAL $5.00
not give us a call? In 30 minutes or less, 
you'll see why this is the week you've been
Offer valid Monday's only! 
Offer valid Thursday"s only! waiting for. OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 
YMoe•l)&l'll("*"'l'_..Oftlo( HCII...WaoCII_,.,.OII_ONe< Ploc:ft-.y_, Yalod •p.t'IOCJPII""'J-ftonly Nai.-.:IMI'I•nyOI,_. .-.., ""UI......, ,.,~ C,...,...,pt~JSIIIIoKIP ....... ~ ~-~·-• ... 
c ... -~.-.w.....,...,.,.llb6e Oeherr-•""-<~~~a-•u•df"""' Our~e.rfyiHI"*'UO.OO Ourdt---nal~lol ... CALL US! Orowog Quodf.-.c.,.,.,.._"'-'1JOOO Ouooo--. ....... ~,.olo< ... 
~-· 

.,..._,., en..Oorrwoot Plru. !ftc 1/sblan _,... o.-~.~·· woo: 1/sb.'cm 
·----------------------~
·----------------------· 271-0300 
1835 South Bend Ave.


Tues. Fri. 
r··--·-······-········-, r----------------------,
TRIPLE TUESDAY DOUBLE DINNER DEAL 
Present this coupon and receive Present this coupon and receive 2·12' 3 small original cheese pizzas 
original pizzas with 2 toppings and for $6.99. k:lctitional toppings available 2 COKES for $11.49. at an additional dlarge. Offer valid Friday's only! Offer valid Tuesday's only! 
all 

DOMINO'S OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 

llalod•~.ng-onty Not __n,...,.lll,..,....., '"'oc•s......,. ••,,

~:~~~~".:"~--~~-~ ,_ PIZZA 
c-~ ........ ...._~~-....._._.... ~ c-~ ..... ~a......,..~..,.. o.~~w.,. -·'-".., ....,_, ,. 
Or-.g Ourdr-.c_., .... ltiMIU0.00.0.."*'-5--~ .. -DELIVERS~ 0<"""9 Our~~~~ c•ry..,......,. UOOO Ou< .,. • ..., .... .,.. ro-»•.o k>o ••• 
ow-... 0,.. eor-.""'k • ,..._... 1/s.b/cm
1fsb.lan CHIIM o.:.n-1 "'u• w
FREE. 

·----------------------~ . . ~ ·----------------------~ 
Weds. Sun. Sat. 
r··--------------------, r·---------------------, r······-·····------·---,
WILD WEDNESDAY : DOUBLE FEATURE PARTY SPECIAL 
Present this t::O!JPOO and receive I Present this coupon and receive Present this coupon and receive 2·14" 
1 small original pepperoni pizza : 2 small original cheese pizzas original ~ with 2 toppings and 
for $2.99. Additional {oppings available for $5.29. 4 COKES for $12.99.
1 

at an additional dlarge. 1 Offer valid Sunday's only! ~~ 
Offer valid Saturday's onlyl Offer valid Wednesday's only! 
: a; . 
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/00 : OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90

II. I' 

.._..~_..,
... ....,_.,.,. ____ ,..c:.tmey_,

....... ......... _ _.............._a...y_,... .........-.......... ~ _ ........... I \llllod•panoc..,....._"onty ~ .aloci_....,OI,...oiSe< Pre:.~....,_.,
c-..,.~ .... .... 
~......... "' ..... ~ a..-,.-...... 10 ..........\e •-. Owr..._.mny ...-..naoa o... ....... _ ...,..._...,... I =-e>vr~~:~-==20-:~-;.':':.,~7:~': drl¥lng Owr ..._. c.ny ........ GQDQ Owr .._.-... _..,,I'd tor ... 
~C"IIt~'IP'V:ra.h::

.,...__o.-OamMo.. ,..__JrC. I .......,'" Cl\911 Oor•w•co"l Potu.. Inc 1/lblcm 11sb/cm 
Our drMirl carry leu \han 120.00 Umr&ed Mtovery area 
·----------------------· ·----------------------·
·----------------------· 
01810 Domino's Ptul. Inc 
~ 

.-----~----

Mon., March 26,1990 
4:1fi PM 
llosburgh Library 
Auditorium 
Mon., March 26 
8:00PM 
Lyons Hall 
Wod., March 28, 1990 
4:15PM 
Hcsburgh Library Auditorium 
For ntOn!' information, contact: Dr. Kathl~tn Halischolt Program in Chndtr StudiPtt Uniufl!rttity ofNotrt Damt Notrfl! Damt, Ind. 46556 
(2 19) 239 8094 
This Week 
Concenlralion in Gender Studies Series 
Gender and Families 
HarrieHe Pipes McAdoo 
Professor, School of Social Work, Howard University 
Marriage: What's the Future? 
a conversation with Harriette Pipes McAdoo 
Susan Moller Okin 
Professor of Politics, Brandeis Univ.; Visiting Professor, Harvard Univ. 
Justice, Gender and Families 
reception rollowa Pror. Okin'a lectura in the Hesburgh Library Lounge 
TM AT&T Viliting Scholan &r~s i.l a program oftht ColltiJfl! ofArts and Uturs. Univtrsity of Notre Damfl!, and is madt po,.ibk by a grant from the AT&T 
Foundacion. ~~fh6 fd11IIY port"' 
Ve<' rsJfY 0Hiof!6 unN<' 
1

's Invited­EverYone 
The Observer page 13 
Track team returns to action 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame track team jumped back into action on Saturday by hosting the Snow­shoe Invitational at Meyo Track and in Krause Stadium. The event, which included squads from eight schools, marked the 
first competition  for  many of  
the  Irish  since  the  end  of  
February.  

Head coach Joe Piane was pleased with Notre Dame's per­formance in the non-scored meet, a prelude to the regular season. 
"We accomplished exactly what I hoped we would," said Piane of the Irish who captured four of 19 individual wins. "Considering how long it had been since some of these people had competed, everyone did real well." 
The level of competition, which included challengers from Albion, Lewis, Western Michigan, Southwestern Michi­gan College, Aquinas, Illinois State and Michigan St., was be­low the usual level. The contest had a more relaxed atmosphere to allow for practice and im­provement. 
"No one was real sharp," commented Piane, " but it was good, solid competition, just as I expected." 
Piane noted that many of the Irish excelled at the meet. In the field events, the only con­tests besides the steeplechase that were held outdoors, Notre Dame had promising showings in the discus and javelin. Tony Smith finished second to Illinois State's Chad Canaday in the discus while in the javelin, Ryan Mihalko and Matt DeAngelis captured the top two spots. Their distances qualified both of them for the IC4As. 
"The six throws for both of them were all very good," said Piane. "I was especially happy for Matt since he is new in the event." 
Another one-two Irish finish occurred in the 1,500. Hyan Cahill edged Brian Peppard for the victory. 
"I was glad to see Hyan win it," said Piane, "and the second place finish should do a lot for Brian's confidence." 
Other winners included Glenn Watson in the 110 meter high hurdles and Yan Searcy in the 200 meter run. 
"Yan had an excellent day," remarked Piane. "Not only did he place second in the 100 and win the 200, but he also an­chored our mile relay which qualified for the IC4As. Ilis stepping down a level from his usual 400 will give him the leg speed he needs in the future." 
The relay team of Searcy, Peppard, John Evans and Mike Rogan completed their heat with a time of 3:17.80. Although they placed second to Illinois State, the group's time was well below the IC4A's maximum. 
Piane pointed out the other Irish runners, such as Steve McLaughlin who finished fifth in the 800, recorded personal bests even though they didn't win. 
The 15th-year coach will test Notre Dame's progress next weekend in Texas when the Irish take on Harvard, Rice and 
Minne~ota. 
Balanced attack paces SMC track 

By CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's outdoor track team, led by junior Jen­nifer Guiltinan, sophomore Lynn Pfeffer and freshman Ch­eryl Fortunak, tallied 85 points at the Wabash Invitational Sat­urday, competing against Finley College, Lufton College and Tri­State College. 
In the running events, Guilti­nan ran to a second place finish in the 5000 meter run, record­ing a time of 20:20.5, her per­sonal best. Junior Nicole Hill followed with a 20:32.0 to fin­ish third. Fortunak came from 50 meters behind in a dramatic 800 meter run to capture third place with a time of 2:36. 
In the 40 meter run, sopho­more Heidi Finniff soared to a third place finish, while Hill placed fifth. 
The success of the Belles con­tinued as sophomore Jenny 
Lax 
continued from page 16 
McHugh and Chris Nelson quickly put the Irish on top 2-1. 
Stimson earned a sixth place finish in the 200 meter run, with a time .of 29.4 seconds. Meanwhile, in the 100 meter hurdles, freshman Julie Beem ran 18.7 seconds for a fourth place finish and senior Maggie Daday earned fifth in the 400 meter hurdles, recording a time of 7 4.6 seconds. 
In the relay events, the team of Finniff. freshman Erin Kelly, sophomore Beth Seymour and Stimson excelled to capture fourth place in the 4 x 400 me­ter relay. In the 4 x 100 meter relay event, Saint Mary's placed two of its teams. The team of senior Lianne Stevenson, senior Mary Cassidy, sophomore Kerry Meehan and Kelly ran to a third place finish with a time of 55.6 seconds, while the team of Daday, sophomore Sandy Macklin, Beem and Pfeffer fin­ished fourth in 56.2. 
In the field events, the Belles dominated the triple jump. Pfef-
Scormg continued in such a see-saw manner, with the game tied 5-5 at halftime. 
In the second half, Notre Dame went on a scoring ram­page, with two goals in the first three minutes of the third quar-


Attention! 
2000 Randomly selected undergraduates will soon be receiving a survey on issues of sexuality on Notre Dame's campus 
0 


We need you to respond 1 
The responses will directly aHect the recommendations made to the Board of Trustees in May, 1990. Furthermore, these results will be published in the Observer and made available to the Notre Dame community. 
fer led the team, soaring 30 feet, 11.5 inches into second place. Cassidy captured fourth place, jumping 28 feet, 11 inches. Meehan finished fifth place with a 28 feet, .5 inch jump while Macklin finished sixth, jumping 27 feet, eight inches. In the long jump, Pfeffer captured third place, and in the javelin throw, she placed third 
with a 90 feet throw. 
•· 
Overall, the Belles' perfor­mance was excellent. Saint Mary's coach Larry Szczechowski agrees. 
"This was our best team showing since I've been involved with the track program. We were a lot more competitive than we have been. It's nice to see us place in all of these events." 
The Belles will compete next Saturday at the Huntington Re­lays. 
ter. Wooster standout Tom Bennett was quick to answer, however, shaving Notre Dame's advantage to 7-6. But the Fighting Irish rose to the chal­lenge, as junior defenseman Pete Gillen, with Notre Dame a man down while serving out a penalty, intercepted a Wooster pass and took the ball the en­tire length of the field for a goal, stunning Wooster goal­keeper Hob Vosburgh. 
No sooner had the Scots re­covered from Gillen's magical performance than Sullivan took the ball from face-off and promptly blew a shot past the Wooster keeper. 
Notre Dame led 9-6 at the start of the fourth quarter, but the Irish offense had not fin­ished yet. McHugh and Pat Finn tacked on scores for the Irish, as did senior co-captain Dave Carey, who, like Gillen, traveled the length of the field and found the net. 
Saturday's win evened out the Irish record at 3-3 on the sea­son. Wooster, coming off three road wins (Lynchburg, Virginia Wesleyan, and Handoph-Macon) and a hectic home win over Haverford, fell to 4-1. Notre Dame now holds an 8-1 advantage in the series with Wooster. 
Next up for Notre Dame is the San Diego State Tourna­ment, where the Irish will face­off with Air Force for the inside track to a western regional bid to the NCAA tournament. 

e 14 The Observer 
Something's missing at Loftus You Can Buy 
Spring football practice begins without seniors, recruits This Baby A 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz found himself in a some­what precarious position Fri­day when his football team op1med its spring session in the Loftus Center. 
Missing from last season's seeond-ranked squad were 28 seniors, including 1 1 former starters, while the 23 incoming freshmen, widely eonsidered the lirwst crop in the country. were not schedull'd to arrive on campus until summer. 
But one thing that remainPd was the high intensity level Holtz demands from all his teams. 
"This was a good first day," lloltz said following Friday's practice in full pads. "The atti­tude and the intensity is very good. We've got to be careful of injuries, but at the same time we've got to make each day productive. 
"I was partieularly pleased about how the players re­sponded to the new coaches." 
New defp,nsive coordinator Gary Darnell, discussing his immediatP. impressions of the Irish defense following Satur­day's practice, described Notre Dame's personnel as an "outstanding" complement to his defensive philosophy. 
"We like to bn aggressive and explodn off the ball," said Dar­nnll. "These guys like to do that, and they're capable of do­ing that. What you hope to see 


Fencing 
continued from page 16 

The individual sabre competi­tion pitted Irish teammates James Taliaferro, as the num­ber-two seed, and Leszek Nowosielski, the number-seven seed. Nowosielski disposed of 
Thali<s to you... 

itworb... 
for 
AU. 
OFUS 

Unitedway 

at Notre Dame is the rommit­ment..and excellence these guys have. 
Junior cornerback Hod Smith snt the tone on Friday by deliv­ering a punishing blow to the head of running back Dorsey Levens, who missed Saturday's practicn recovering from a con­cussion. 
L!wlms, expected to compete at both tailback and fullback this spring, watched Sunday's practice from the sidelines. lie also jogged a few laps around the Loftus track next to center Mike lleldt, who is recovering from a dislocated right elbow suffered in last season's Orange Bowl game. 
Mirko Jurkovic, considered Tim Grunhard's heir at strong guard, dislocated his knee in a 7 -on-7 drill on Saturday, but the damage is not as serious as first feared. Senior Brian Shannon took over at strong guard in Jurkovic's absence. 
Irish quad-captain lUcky Watters, who has shifted be­tween tailback and flanker during his three years at Notre Dame, lined up at split end over the weekend. lloltz maintained that Watters will see action at both tailback and split end this fall. 
"Hicky will play tailback and split end, and "Hocket" (flanker Haghib Ismail) will be there (tailback) too," said Holtz. 
Taliaferro in three bouts, be­fore falling to eventual gold medalist Dave Mandell of Columbia on a questionable ruling in which Nowosielski's weapon was broken as Mandell hit his winning touch. The 
Irish  appeal  was  denied.  
Nowosielski  went  on  to  take  
the  bronze  medal,  though  

obviously quite disappointed with his performance. 
"Levens and Kenny Spears will play tailback and fullback, and so will Hodney Culver. 
"Everybody grabs a number and we have a lottery," Holtz joked. "Whatever number comes out, that's where you play. Pros substitute on third down, we substitute by posi­tion." 
One position whern lloltz is not expected to substitute is nose taekle, where All-American Chris Zorich embodies the word "intensity". Darnell im­mediately took notice of the se­nior quad-captain's leadership capabilities. 
"There're not many like him," Darnell said. ''I've been around a lot of good football players, but he's also a captain and he's acting like one." 
Sophomores Hick Mirer and Jake Kelchner, who entered spring practice as the only quarterbacks on the Irish roster, were recently joined by converted cornerback Lamar Guillory. 
NOTES: The team will prac­tice in full pads on Monday and Wednesday this week, and come out in helmets and shorts on Tuesday... The first scrimmage of the spring is tentatively 
scheduled for Sunday... Holtz plans six or seven scrimmages in the 17 remaining spring dates. 
"I feel bad for Leszek, be­cause he's beaten both of those guys this season," said Irish head coach Mike DeCicco refer­ring to the match-up for the sabre medals. 
Monday's action at Saint Mary's will feature the women's individual foil competition and the men's tP.am foil competition. 
Lifetime! 

Kaplan LSAT prep­We plead guilty! 
The first, the biggest, the best. We plead guilty 
on all counts to giving LSAT candidates like you 
the finest test preparation possible. 
Every year, Stanley H. Kaplan preps more men and women for the LSAT than anyone else. Why? ... It's simple! Our teachers are LSAT specialists who know what it takes to score. Our research staff keeps you on top of the latest test changes. Our home study pack and audio study lab lets you get as much LSAT practice as you need. 
Want proofl Call or visit any of our over 130 nationwide locations. Ask about our free repeat policy and our scholarship programs. You'll find the professionalism your future deserves. Beyond the shadow of a doubt. 







!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL CENTER LTD. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
6/11/90 LSAT Class starts 3/29/90. 
10/6/90 LSAT Class starts 9/6/90. Sign up in South Bend before you go haTe and save 10%! Reserve your place in Sept. class now. 
DUDE, THEY'RE NEW 
The Church NitzerEbb 
til~-·"-~ ~C'Jlo 

Cinema at the Snlte 
TONIGHT 9:00 



Monday, March 26, 1990 The Observer page 15 

LECTURE CIRCUIT Monday 
4:15 p.m. "Marriage, What's the Future?" Harriette McAdoo, Howard University. Hesburgh Library Audito­rium. Sponsored by gender studies. 
4:30 p.m. "Understanding the Architecture of a DNA Binding Protein," Dr. Michael Mossing, M.I.T. Galvin Auditorium. Sponsored by biological sciences. 
7:30 p.m."Physics and Christian Theology," Dr. John Polkinghorne, Cambridge University. Room 127 Nieuw­land Science. Sponsored by Reilly center undergraduate lectures in science, technology and values and department of physics. 
CAMPUS 

7 p.m. Film, "The Conformist." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by NO communication and theatre. 
7:30p.m. Film, "Agony and the Esctasy." Room 206 Ar­chitecture Building. Sponsored by NO school of architec­ture AlAS. 
9 p.m. Film, "The Godfather." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by NO communication and theatre. 
Tuesday 
12 p.m. Kellogg Seminar (Brown Bag Lunch) "Party Or­ganization Why It Matters, How It Works (and Doesn't ) in Brazil." Scott Mainwaring, senior fellow, Kellogg Insti­tute, associate professor, government and international studies, University of Notre Dame. 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
12 p.m. Noon talk, "Thirteen Hispanic Photographers." Snite Museum of Art. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

BBQ Pork Chops Chicken Teriyaki Carrot Cheese Noodle Casserole Italian Beef Sandwich 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
G 
\W­~ ~ 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 24 Ivy-covered 55 "La Boheme" 26 Breakfast item 
character
1 Deep-bodied 
56 Beat itl 
30 Peteman 5 Soviet news 31 Seed covering 62 Excited service 32 Obtuse one 63 Nice friend 
herring 

9 College org. 3i Repeatedly 64 Wine grape 13 Auriculate 
39 Ravels 65 Adam's third son
15 Check texts 41 Cuta­(dance) 66"GWTW"
16 Erudition 

home
42 Lariat

11 W Indian dance 43 Type of engine 
67 Shot of liquor 
18 Poet Millay 44 Direct 
sa Weight
19 Western Indian 
allowance
46 Bandy words 

20 Nemesis of 
69 Lulu
dipterous 47 Lock name insects 49 Not reserved, as 70 A joint 22 Part of an a table inventory 51 Rigid 
DOWN
23 Reverberate 53 Qualified 1 Ego 2 Acclaim ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Multitude 4 Some Jr. Leaguers 5lncisors 6 Embellish 7 Math function aSuffer a certain deprivation 25 Plane designer 36-measure 51 Inspiration for Sikorsky Blake
9 The constellation 37 Latin catchall Volans 26 Float through abbr. 52 Act with passion the air 
10 Customary 38Aromatic 53 Burning
27 Indonesia's­

-=+=+=:-+::=-+=-! passage ointment 54 Dim 
Islands 

-=+~+=-1 11 Fortified 40With the 55 Food for hogs 
28 Price: Scot. 

7+.:7F.:'+--=-I 12 Sea tt I e purpose 57 Arabian Sea gulf 
29 Brief; unreliable 

Seahawks, e.g. 45 Fittingly 58 Eccentricity
30 School of Hindu 14 Carpentry pin philosophy 48 Smooth, 59 Privy to 21 Served perfectly 33 Heraldic border musically so Split at Wimbledon 34 Two, in Torino 50 Some tides 61 Cigar ending 

-
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
TOUN&UfTKIPPERS ZONE: ETHEREAL REGION 
SURROUNDING-! f"/OST BEAUTIFUL WOMEN.MALES 
BR£ACHIN6) THE. OUTER PARAMETERS OF 
SAID ZON£ ARE OFTEN REDUCED TO BABBLING, BLITHERING IDIOTS* 
/ 
/ 
/ 
I I 

l ­
..... 
_---­









Sports
page 16 Monday, March 26, 1990 
Outmatched Boilers manage one set against Irish 
By RICH KURZ called upon to play number-~ne wi~h his experience and ability." Chris Wojtalik, both of whom home match versus Wisconsin, Sports Writer after Insh coach Bob Bayliss For the most part, the rest of won 6-0, 6-1. this week promises to be key 
decided to rest usual No.1 the team had an easy time of it. The Irish continued domi-for the Irish. One set. David DiLucia. Freshman Chuck Coleman, nance of the match in doubles. "Tuesday (Indiana) will be That's all the outgunned ·Pur­"!lis (DiLucia's) arm is a little moving up a spot in the ladder Juniors Hyan Wenger and Paul big. We know they can play," 
dun men's t1mnis team managed tender," said Bayliss, also citing for the match as did all the Odland were new faces on the Coach Bayliss said. "They beat to win Saturday against na­a sore hip nexor as a reason to Irish players, basically had his court for doubles, playing with No.12 Clemson. Miami (Oh. 1 tionally ranked Notre Dame. rest DiLucia. "lie could have way with Purdue's Andy Berlin-Zurcher and Wojtalik, respec-isn't ranknd, but they beat us The No.22 Irish, b11hind a youth played, but there was no reason ski. Coleman did not lose a tively. Coleman and Dolhare last year." The biggest match movement that saw a freshman to take a chance," Bayliss said. game in winning 6-0, 6-0. won by forfeit after their oppo-of the week, however, looms as on each of the three doubles Dolhare filled in admirably. The only set the Boilermakers nents retired due to injury, with the Wisconsin match next Sat-teams and occupying live of the After falling behind five games won carne at No.4 singles. Notre Dame up 3-0 in the sec-urday. six singles spots, swept Purdue to one in the first set, he fought Notre Dame's Andy Zurcher ond set. Wenger/Zurcher won 9-0, giving the Irish momentum back to win a tiebreaker, and captured the first set 6-0. be-7-5, 6-4 and Odland/Wojtalik 
In the last regional ranking,
going into Tuesday's match also gritted out a tough second fore Purdue's Curt Lowry won convincingly defeated their Wisconsin was ranked No.1 in with always tough Indiana Uni­set to win the match 7-6, 6-4. the next set 6-4. Zurcher fi-Boilermaker opponents 6-3, 6-this area. "We have to respect vnrsity. Bayliss had nothing but good nally got back on track to win 2. them," Bayliss said. Bayliss is 
The gutsiest match of the day words for his senior captain. the match 6-0, 4-6, 6-1. Bayliss wasn't gloating on the straightforward with the definitely was played by senior "I'd like to compliment Walter Mark Schmidt, at No.3 sin-victory, however. Instead he prospects for the week. "We'd captain Walter Dolhare. After Dolhare on being able to step in gles, was another victor for the was looking to the week ahead. like to think we're the better recently having b11en moved up and play No.1 today," he said. Irish, 6-1, 6-2. Other winners With away matches against In­team, but we have to go out to No.2 singles, Dolhare was "it's good to have someone for NO included Hon Rosas and diana and Miami (Oh.), and a 
and bnat thnrn." lw said. 


Wayne St. bounces back to win; Irish men eye title 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's fnncing team ap­peared to be well on tlw road to anotlwr na­tional championship bdorn thny wen~ ruddy awakened by a sleeping giant from Wayne StatP University. 
After jumping to a 3-0 lead over the Tartars in the championship match, th•~ Irish then pro­ceeded to drop nine of the nnxt ten bouts as tlw defending national champions from WSU rollPd to their second straight NCAA title. 
-
"They were definitely more in control," said Irish women's head coach Yves Auriol, whose squad ironically defeated Wayne State in their previous two meetings this year. "Their nurnbPr four and number five girls really made a differ­ence. The whole team has a lot of expnrience. They simply went out and did what they had to d0. " 
Gil Pezza's Wayne State team boasts a wealth of talent from the European continent, including last year's individual champion Loredana Ranza and several line fencers from West Germany. The women's individual foil competition will be held this afternoon at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic facility. 
While the Irish cruised past the University of Pennsylvania (9-4) and Penn State (9-1 ). the Wayne State women struggled against Columbia (8-6) and Temple (9-71 before downing the Irish for the title. 
In earlier action over the w1wknnd, the men's sabre team placed second overall to Columbia, putting the men in good competition for the team title to be decided after Monday and Tues­day's epee and foil events. 
see FENCING I page 14 
ND lacrosse beats Wooster's Scots 12-8 
Spring Irish football looks to  By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer  sey, is quickly ascending the Notre Dame lacrosse all-time  van made two assists and one goal in Saturday's match with  tently, with our talent, we can win games."  
1 990, as practice starts minus 28  The Notre Dame lacrosse team. gearing up for its pivotal  scoring list. McHugh, who had three goals (one from an assist by Sullivan) against Wooster,  Wooster. "We still have some work to do before we're playing our  Yet despite the seemingly lop­sided final margin, the Scots gave the Irish quite a match.  
seniors ... page 14  match with Air Force, success­fully rebounded from a spring break skid with a 12-8 victory  raised his career point total to 85, and now remains only six points shy of seizing sixth place  best," said Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan. "There were moments today when we played  Andy Fox of Wooster started the scoring with merely four minutes expired in the first  
over  the  Wooster  Fighting  on the all-time scoring list.  well, but wn still have  a lot to  quarter,  as  he drilled  a  shot  
Scots on Saturday afternoon at  do  in  order  to  improve.  We  past talented Irish goalkeeper  
Moose Krause Stadium.  But it is  freshman  Sullivan  played  well  in  the  second  Chris Parent, giving Wooster an  
Heating Up Irish women's tennis  Leading the Irish effort were attackmen Brian McHugh and Mike Sullivan. McHugh. a se­nior from Parsippany, New Jer­ who presently leads the Irish in scoring for the 1990 season. with a total of 15 points (seven goals and eight assists). Sulli­ half...our defense played well, and we got lots of ground balls, both of whieh we need to do to win. If we can do that consis­ early 1-0 lead. But that lead did not last two minutes, as see LAX I page 13  
team plays tough in  

UNLV wins to complete 1990 NCAA Final Four
weekend action ...page 13 

(AP)-UNLV, Georgia Tech. With Georgia Tech and Duke win the East Hegional at East Marymount goes home after Duke, Arkansas: They are the both winning, the Atlantic Hutherford, N.J., and Arkansas losing on the court but winning Final Four. Coast Conference has two defeated Texas 88-85 for the its mission in the memory of 
"On to Denver," read a sign teams in the Final Four for the Midwest Hegional crown at fallen teammate llank Gathers. held up by UNLV's Moses first time since 1981. That Dallas. Stacey Augmon scored 25 of Seurry as the Hunnin' Rebels year, North Carvlina and Vir­Duke (28-8) meets Arkansas his 33 points in the first half as
Snowshoe 

polished off Loyola Marymount ginia both advanced to the (30-4) and Georgia Tech (28-6) UNLV reached a season-high in 
-
NO track returns to 

131-101. ending the Lions' championships, with the Tar plays UNLV (33-5) in next Sat-points while holding the na­emotional ride. Heels losing the national title to urday's Final Four semifinals in tion's highest-scoring team well On Sunday, UNLV captured Indiana. Denver, with the national title under its 125-point average. 
action, hosting the 
Snowshoe 

the West Regional at Oakland, Six times in the '80s there to be settled next Monday UNLV put it away with a run of
Invitational 

Calif.,-and Georgia Tech was a was more than one team from night. 13 straight points late in the 
93-91 winner over Minnesota a conference in the Final Four, WEST first half. for the Southeast Regional title including 1985 when the Big No. 3 UNLV 131, UNLV lost in the semifinals in at New Orleans. Duke and East had three. No. 21 Loyola 101 its previous two Final Four 
... page 12 
• 

Arkansas advanced on Satur­On Saturday, Duke beat Con­UNLV is going to the Final 
see FINAL 4 I page 12
day. necticut 79-78 in overtime to Four for the third time. Loyola 

-







