
VOL. XXIII NO. 75 THURSDAY , JANUARY 25, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Notre Dame to hold first national 
Catholic colleges meeting in Feb. 
By JOliN ZALLER "Academic exchange will not ing. 
Nnws Writer be conducive to a whole range This meeting comes at a time 
of ideas, if it is limited," of heated debate concerning 

Thn Univnrsity of Notre Damn Kinkopf added. academic freedom at Catholic 
will host thn first national According to Kinkopf, the institutions of higher learning 
nweting of thn National meeting will present a student and growing questions about 
Association of Students at voice explaining the student po­the Church's role in education. 
Catholic Collnges and sition on academic freedom in a The meeting is also timely in 
Univnrsitins (N.A.S.C.C.U.) over Catholic environment. The as­light of the Vatican's promise 
thn Fnb. 2 weekend. sociation is in the process of to draft a proposal on 
N.A.S.C.C.U. 's primary goal is drafting a document concerning Academics in Catholic higher to unitn studnnts at Catholic the student perspective of education. uniwrsitins in an open and re­academic freedom and !;opes to "Academic freedom has al­sponsivn forum on major issues solidify and pass this document ways been a large topic in of <·onc1~rn to thosn enrolled in at next weekend's meetings. Catholic higher education," said Catholic institutions of higher The weekend's events will in­Kinkopf, "we are trying to bet­nducation. elude keynote addresses by two ter involve students in the de­
This first national meeting of prominant figures in the debate bate." rwarly 150 representatives concerning acactemic freedom: Kinkopf wants to see Notre from 30 Catholic colleges and the Archbishop of Milwaukee, Dame more involved in national universitins will examine the is­Rembert Weakland, and student issues that are most af­sun of studnnt academic free­University of Dayton Provost, fecting Catholic students. "We dom in a Catholic education. Father James Heft. Both now have room for student 
"Catholic students may be speeches are open to the public. opinion in a form that was damagnd if they arn not able to Other events will include a never heard before," he added. pursue their education freely in discussion among student rep­Traditionally the debate has a rnsponsibln manner," said resentatives about the future of been one-sided, given the fact David Kinkopf. Student Body the newly formed association 
The Observer I Kyle Sanders 
Vicn Prnsident and National and possible major topics to be 
see Meet/ page 5 a building going up on the new
President of N.A.S.C.C.U. discussed at next year's meet-
House overrides Bush veto to protect Chinese students 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The D-N.Y., chairman of the House In addition, the bill would ply an effort to preserve execu­"The bill is totally unneces­
House voted overwhnlming Foreign Affairs Asia subcom­permit any Chinese student tive branch foreign policy pre­sary. The long-term policy con­
Wednesday to override mittee. whose visa has expired -as rogatives, he said, and to keep sequences are potentially great. 
l'rnsident Bush's veto of legisla­Bush pinned his hopes on the many as 8,000 others -to re­open the door for future stu­And Congress, in my view, will 
tion protecting Chinese students Senate, where both Democratic main in the United States as dent and cultural exchanges. have only itself to blame." 
from deportation, while Bush and Republican senators pre­long as danger exists at home, "I will not break faith with Bush listed steps the Beijing 
appealed to Republican dicted a cliffhanger. The presi­and would allow Chinese stu­the Chinese students here.... government has taken which he 
senators to resist and help -him dent, National Security Adviser dents to work while in this They were safe then, and they said justified his policy toward 
keep open ties to the world's Brent Scowcroft and Secretary country. are safe now, and they will be China: the lifting of martial law 
most populous nation. of State James Baker Ill all Bush vetoed the measure on safe in the future," Bush told a in the capital; the release of 
The !louse vote of 390 to 25 were telephoning senators Nov. 30 after it had passed White House news conference jailed dissidents; a promise not 
sent the matter to the Senate, through the day. unanimously in the House and Wednesday. to sell medium-range missiles 
where both sides said the out­Bush was publicly appealing by a voice vote in the Senate. To the 37 GOP senators who to Syria; acceptance of Peace 
come of Thursday's scheduled to GOP senators to support him Chinese student groups have attended a breakfast at the Corps volunteers, Fulbright 
vote was in doubt. in the face of what he termed lobbied hard for an override of White House, Bush hit hard on scholars and a Voice of 
House Speaker Thomas Foley "crass politics" played by some the veto, saying many of them his contention that a veto over­America correspondent back 
declared. "J don't think what's supporters of the override. would face political persecution ride would mean a total cutoff into the country, and the mut­
most on the minds of the mem­The legislation would affect at home because they supported of the flow of students to the ing of anti-U.S. propaganda. 
bers of Congress is the sensitiv­as many as 32,000 Chinese stu­the pro-democracy United States, and he appeared But critics have countered 
ities of the present Chinese dents now in the United States demonstrations that brought a to be winning a few converts. that the missile promise was 
leadership.... This is a leader­on "exchange visitor" visas. violent government crackdown "The price of the Pelosi bill is nothing more than a repeating 
ship that has in our judgment The bill would waive a legal re­last June. lost opportunity for the Chinese of assurances given months be­
failed to respect the rights of quirement that those students At the time Bush vetoed the scholars of tomorrow," the fore the crackdown, that the ef­
its own citizens." return home for two years bill, he ordered government president told reporters later, fects of martial law remain in 
"On the issue of China, the after their visas expire before agencies to adopt what he con­referring to the legislation place and that arrests, _!!a­
president has lost his credibil­returning to the United States tends are essentially the same sponsored by Rep. Nancy 
see China/ page 5 

ity," said Rep. Stephen Solarz, or going elsewhere. safeguards. The veto was sim-Pelosi, D-Calif. 
1 

Unrest plagues Soviet countries 
WASHINGTON MOSCOW (AP)-Azerbaijanis pected military authorities. of journalist said of what she de­President Bush on fired on Soviet forces in Baku planning to smuggle out bodies scribed as an exchange of ar­day lambasted a harbor from merchant ships of people killed by Soviet sol­tillery and automatic weaponsSocial Security ·tax 
Wednesday but were routed diers, sairl Tunzala Kasumova, fire. Kasumova spoke by tele­sleight of hand but and forced to lift a 5-day-old a journalist in Baku, a city with phone from her home near the 
as "innovative thiln~:in:g' 
sea blockade of the city, Soviet 1.8 million residents. harbor. 
plan that eventually media and residents reported. Captains of the oil tankers Soviet television said several make the retirement Soldiers rounded up 43 ac­and barges were said to have people people detained in con­tern private. 
tivists and banned rallies in threatened to blow up their nection with the fight had Bush said he was " Baku, where ethnic violence be­vessels if military vessels tried weapons and drugs in their
prepared to endorse;' a 
gan Nov. 13 between Moslem to break through. possession.plan sponsored by Rep: Azerbaijanis and Armenians, Red Army soldiers moved into 
John Porter, R~Ill., and the 
most of whom are Christians. the Azerbaijani capital Trud, a labor newspaper, re­House Republican Soldiers' families and thou­Saturday to quell a nationalist ported attacks on the apart­Newt Gingrich of sands of Russians were evacu­uprising and anti-Armenian ri­ments of Russians and said"It's worthy, though, of'\ ated Wednesday. ots. Azerbaijani were refusing to
consideration, of som.l), . 
State television said the port Kasumova said the 40-minute sell bread to Russians.study," he said. . . ·_,_. terminal came under attack harbor battle began when a Militants continued storming
"People are concernedt{ 
from ships of the Caspian Sea military cutter tried to break weapons depots in Armenia and 
about Social Security, so · blockade, and
Oil Fleet and two soldiers were through the Azerbaijan and had stolen more when you have innovative wounded. troops near the terminal joined than 5,000 guns and other ma­thinking of that nature, l Tankers and other ships with in to help the cutter. teriel in two days, Foreigndon't want to just gun it Azerbaijani crews· had blocked "I could hear the thunder, the Ministry spokesman Gennadydown," Bush added, 'Tm the harbor because they sus_-shooting and cannonade," the Gerasimov sairl in Moscow. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Don't be mad: Guns N' Roses is nice n' nasty 
Anyone who saw the American Music Tim O'Keefe Awards on TV Mon-Assistant News Editor 
day night got quite an 
earful from Guns N' 
Roses. 
Guns N' Roses lived up to its hard-rocking reputation when guitarist Slash and a fellow band member staggered on stage to accept the awards. The band, which won awards for best heavy metal group and best heavy metal album, was cut off twice for using profanity during the live show. 
There are two possible responses to this. One is what your mother would say: "What nasty, vulgar young men-and the mouths on them! They ought to be thrown into a cage with a pack of half-starved pit bulls and die a slow, horrible death if they can't behave themselves. Why don't they give the award to somebody decent, like Barry Manilow?" 
Many Notre Dame students might agree. After all, we're clean-cut, all-American boys and girls who would probably make Beaver Cleaver puke in disgust. 
I think that there is a much better response. Isn't it good to see rock 'n' roll be unaeceptable, trashy and mindless? A lot of heavy metal bands today are as innocuous as New Kids on the Block or as clean as Milli Vanilli. 
Because heavy metal today has become so flaccid, almost the only ones left who are rude and obnoxious are punk bands, like the Dead Kennedys and the Day-Glo Abor­tions. 
These bands are plenty offensive enough, with songs like "Holiday in Cambodia" and "Kill the Poor." They're not very popular, but many teens need something offensive to defy their fascist parental units. 
Hemember the good old days of heavy metal, when the bands were socially unac­ceptable? 
Angst-driven outfits like Black Sabbath and Judas Priest stimulated the stupid t'ebellion of teenagers everywhere. Songs like "Iron Man" and "Love Bites" became anthems for a generation of self-pitying, maladjusted meatheads. 
Nowadays, bands have song titles like "Just say 'No,' " or "I Make Six Million Dollars a Year for Wearing Spandex, so Screw You." Well, if they're going to be that bourgeois about it, why be a heavy metal band? It's refreshing to see the members of Guns N' Hoses speak with illegal substances coursing through their veins, using profane language, and in general being offensive. 
So the next time you see a group like Guns N' Hoses, don't condemn them. Sure they're obnoxious. Sure they're stupid. But they serve an important function. 
They keep today's rebellious youth distracted until they grow up to become well-adjusted members of society who can cheerfully enter the world of yuppiedom and engage in the soul-deadening pursuit of tawdry status symbols. 
The opinions expressed in the Inside column is the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Ihe-Obset:Ver__= 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 Today's Staff: 
News Accent 
Janice O'Leary Terri Walsh Joe Moody Shonda Wilson 
Ad Design Kathleen O'Connor Maria Blohm Shannon Roach Viewpoint
Business 
Kim Skiles 
Kerry Clair Kevin ReischLiz Panzicia 
Mike Kolar Katie FosterCaroline Clarke 
Sports 
Molloy Mahoney SystemsGraphics Molly Schwartz Bradford Boehm Production 
Cesar Capella Greg Tice 
Andrew Morrow 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Thursday, January 25, 1990 

WEATHER Forecast for noon, Thursday, January 25. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure
®© 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press Graph1csNet 
OF INTEREST 
A Soviet Lawyer and political analyst, Leonid Volkov, for the Soviet Academy of Sciences is visiting Notre Dame Friday, Jan. 26. A lecture will be given titled "Forming a Political Opposition in the U.S.S.R." at 4 p.m. in Room 120 of the Law School. Among other things, he will speak on the upheavals in Eastern Europe and the collapse of the Romanian dictatorship. Volkov has participated in many of the legal and political reforms sweeping through his native Soviet Union. 
A Social Concerns Festival is being hosted by the Center for Social Concerns today from 7-10 p.m.. Over forty groups and agencies will be represented. The Festival offers students an opportunity to get involved in a variety of service/social action program, from tutoring to visiting the elderly. 
Keenan Review Ticket distribution is Friday. at Gate 10 of the JACC. The tickets will be distributed at 3 p.m. for all NO students and 5 p.m. for Saint Mary's students. Each person is allowed to bring 2 IDs total with 1 ticket per 10. The show is Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, Feb. 1,2, and 3. 
Humanitas Submissions: Journal of the College of Arts and Letters now accepting submissions until Feb.16. Please submit essays, fiction, and book reviews to 356 O'Shaughnesy (English Office). 
WORLD 
The top U.S. official on Africa said Wednesday that President F.W. de Klerk assured him black leader Nelson Mandela will be freed soon. In an upbeat assessment of South Africa's racial conflict, the U.S. assistant secretary of state for African affairs, Her­man Cohen, said both the white-run government and the anti-apartheid movement seek to negotiate a politi­cal settlement. Mandela, 71, has been imprisoned more than 27 years and is serving a life sentence for sabo­
College Bowl "The Varsity Sport of the Mind" is in the final stages of organizing its 1990 Notre Dame Tournament. The game, played by two teams of four people each, covers all the academic subjects. Anyone wishing to enter a team should contact Dr. Lombardo at the CCE 239-7005 before 5 p.m., Friday Jan. 26. Forms and rules are available at the Center until that time. 
"How to Obtain a Summer Internship" is the title of a presentation to be given by Paul Reynolds of the Career and Placement Services office tonight at 6:30 
p.m. in Hoom 124 Hayes-Healy Center. Heynolds will highlight the resources and techniques students should usc in seeking employment opportunities for the summer months. 
Foodshare needs volunteers this semester for taking food from both North and South dining halls to the Hope Hescue Mission and to the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. Sign up tonight at the CSC. Call Darren at 283-2055 if you have any questions. 
Iceberg Debates meeting for all team captains will be held tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the llayes-llealy Auditorium. Attendance is mandatory for team captains and suggested for team members. 
Prince Norodom Sihanouk or cambodia said Wednesday he was quitting again as head of the resis­tance coalition battling Cambodia's Vietnamese-backed government. The exiled chief of state said his resigna­tion is in protest of foreign accusations that he is an accomplice in the Communist Khmer Houge's drive to regain power in Cambodia. Disputes with his coalition partners caused him to step down several times before. 
tage and plotting to overthrow the government. 
INDIANA 
Improved medical services justify raising the ceiling on the inmate population at the Indiana State Prison, officials told a federal judge Wednesday. The evidence was presented at a hearing sought by state prison officials before 
U.S. District Judge Allen Sharp, who has ordered the prison to house no more than 1 ,650 inmates. David Arthur, a state deputy attorney general, presented witnesses who said an increased num­ber of staff doctors and nurses can care for an additional 200 inmates at the maximum security prison in Michigan City. 
MARKET UPDATE 


NYSE Index 
182.64 {7 .96 
S&P Composite 
330.26 {7 1.35 

Dow Jones Industrials 2604.50 {710.82 Precious Metals Gold 'i) $5.0 to$417.7/oz. Silver{} 8.2¢ to $5.258 I oz. 
Source: AP 
Yesterday's high: 46 Yesterday's low: 37 Nation's high: 84 (Brownsville,TX) Nation's low: -B (Truckee, CA) 
Forecast: Cloudy, breezy and colder today with a 90 percent chance of rain mixed with snow, chang­ing to snow by afternoon. Highs in the upper 30s. Cloudy, colder and windy tonight with a 40 percent chance for light snow. Lows 20 to 25. Mostly cloudy and chilly Friday. Highs in the middle 30s. 
ALMANAC 

On January 25: 
e In 1949: The first Emmy awards for outstanding televi­sion programming were given. e In 1959: The first transcontinental jet flight took place. The fare from Los Ange­les to New York was $301. 
"liFFS ABEACH." 
f/llft//Ju•f/llfK/t/U/I'I'I.f/{1/ /1/U/III/III'IIJI/IIIIIIIIf/1 loiN/ lt•w•n f1 lumthnL~ luum1, ...., If /Ifill rnul 'JitiW v•mt•liiiii'/HIU'l/! lfl/111WJhllui•·'I.Jmmnl 
itrt:+ 
~---------------­

Thursday, January 25, 1990 The Observer page 3 

AP Photo Japan's first lunar probe, the M3S-2 rocket, soars into the heavens Wednesday carrying two satellites aboard the three­stage main rocket. 
UCHINOUR/\, Japan (APl ­Japan's first lunar probe was put into orbit around the Earth on Wednesday, ending a 14­year gap between moon mis­sions and giving new prestige to the country's young space program. 
Space center officials said the Muses-/\ satellite, as planned, separated from its Nissan­made .rocket several minutes after liftoff Wednesday night from an oceanside launch site in southern Japan. 
Mission chief Hiroki Matsuo said data from tracking sta­tions in California and Australia showed the satellite was orbiting the Earth at a maximum distance of 186,000 miles. 
The satellite in its highly el­liptical orbit is to close within 11,250 miles of the moon by March 18. 

Meeting on Vietnamese refu ees breaks u in turmoil 
GENEV!\ (/\Pl -!\ 30-nation eonfernnee on Vifltnamese boat people broke up in disarray Wedm~sday after U.S. and Vietnamese delegates balked at a compromise starting date for forced deportation to Vietnam of those denied refugee status. 
The United States last week dropped its outright opposition to mandatory repatriation of Vietnamese held to be economic migrants. But it told the closed, U.N.-sponsored meeting the proposed July l date was too narly. and said no one should have to return to Vietnam be­fore Jan. 1. 1991, officials said. 
Britain wanted deportations to begin at once -before the sailing season starts in March -to deter a further influx of boat people into the overflow­ing camps in Hong Kong, a British crown colony. 
The Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) had tried to bridge the gap by suggesting a six­month delay in the repatriation process. 
The future of tens of thou: sands of Vietnamese boat peo­ple is at stake. 
Chief British delegate Robin McLaren expressed disap­pointment at the failure to reach an international agreP.­
ment that would have enabled 
UNIICH to monitor people sent 
back to Vietnam. 
lie said Britain now will have to consider whether to go ahead and return more boat people against their will. Under a deal with Hanoi, Britain forcibly sent back 51 boat peo­ple from the overcrowded Hong Kong camps last month. 
McLaren, speaking to journalists after the meeting, said Vietnamese officials told delegates any internationally­agreed program of forced repatriations should not begin before Oct. 1. 
Vietnam says it needs time to prepare for any mass return of boat people so they can be ab­sorbed into Vietnam's stricken 
economy. 
McLaren noted, however, that 
for the first time there was 
consensus that boat people 
deemed to have fled for eco­
nomic reasons rather than po­
litical persecution should be re­
turned even against their will. 
Sergio Vieira de Mello, a se­nior UNHCR official who presided over the two-day meeting in Geneva, said Norway's Thorwald Stoltenberg, the new High Commissioner for Refugees, was asked to see if a consensus 


Japan's 'young space program' launches first lunar space probe 
At that time, shortly before it crosses the moon's path in a so-called "swing-by," it is to release a second, smaller satel­lite, which will be propelled into lunar orbit about 10,000 miles from the moon. 
The smaller satellite will send data its mother satellite detail­ing the lunar region's tempera­tures and electrical fields. 
The launch originally was scheduled Tuesday, but the countdown was stopped with 18 seconds remaining because of an electrical problem in the hydraulic system. 
Only the United States and the Soviet Union have sent mis­sions to the moon, the most re­cent being the 1976 landing of an unmanned Soviet vehicle. 
The mission is a symbolic step forward for Japan's growing space program, which has relied more on diligent engineering than large budgets. 
"This time we are going to the moon. But our objective is not the moon itself," Matsuo said. "Our institute is getting into interplanetary missions in the 1990s, and for that we need to refine our technology." 
As technicians prepared the M3S-2 rocket on the space cen­ter's only launch pad, officials shivered in buildings around the center where heaters were turned off to conserve electric­ity for the launch equipment. 
Both the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science (ISAS), which is conducting the moon mission, and Japan's other space agency, the National Space Dev~lopment Agency, have plans for future manned space flights and in­terplanetary travel. 
AP Photo 

Vietnamese boat people, opposed to a Hong Kong government plan to relocate them to another detention center, sit under banners Wednesday demanding the return of their boat so they can sail off to Japan. 
could be reached on a starting pressure would grow in Hong date for compulsory repatria-Kong to push boats of asylum tion by. He will negotiate di-seekers back out to sea. rectly with relevant capitals. He said Hong Kong could not 
But Vieira de Mello said there cope with another influx of were no immediate plans for 35,000 boat people, the number 
another international confer­ence. 
U.S. and Vietnamese dele­gates declined comment after the meeting. · 
Earlit!r, Hong Kong security chief Geoffrey Barnes warned that if no agreement emerged, 

Applications are now being accepted for the position of 
Editor-in-Chief 1990-1991 

Anyone interested in applying must submit a resume and a personal statement of no more than five pages to Chris Donnelly. Further information is available from Chris Donnelly at The Observer. 
Applications are due by 5 p.m., Friday, January 26, 1990. 

that flooded into the colony in 1989. 
About 109,000 boat people are in camps in Southeast Asia, including 56,000 in Hong Kong, according to UNHCR figures. The 44,000 boat people who arrived in Hong Kong after June 1988 may be screened to determine if they class as gen­uine political refugees. Arrivals 
before June 1988 were granted refugee status without screen­ing.
UNHCR spokesman Raymond Hall said about 7,000 people have so far been screened in Hong Kong and only 15 percent were accepted as genuine refugees. 
The United States has argued that more time was needed to enable the voluntary program to work. 
Hall said UNHCR was "very satisfied" with Vietnam's treatment of people who re­turned of their own accord. He said there was no sign of any reprisals. 
The refugee agency has re­fused to take part in any pro­gram to return people against
their will. 
l ~ .... -.... --............ ­
I I • 

t JUNIORS ~ 
SEATING FOR THE JPW DINNER AND 
J ~ 
BRUNCH WILL BE HELD AT THE CCE I • FROM 2-10 PM, MON. JAN 29TH AND TUES. JAN 30TH. 4 
I •
• 
4

t • THREE FAMILIES WILL BE ALLOWED t • PER TABLE, WITH A MAXIMUM OF ~ t THREE TABLES PER GROUP-4 
EACH JUNIOR IS ALLOWED TO 
I PRESENT A MAXIMUM OF 9 I.D.s_ 4 
t 
1 

QUESTIONS? CALL 239-6028 t BETWEEN 7-9PM MON-THURS. 
t 

....,_...."-' ._._.._._
1·-------~-.--.-..-~.....-..-~...__ ~..................~ 
I I I I I 
I I 
.... 
Thursday, January 25, 1990

page 4 The Observer 
Van swerves-off road into canal, killing 10 farm laborers 
CLEWISTON, Fla. (APJ -A farm labor van plunged off a curve and into a canal in heavy fog Wednesday in rural Hendry County, trapping and drowning 10 migrant workers from Mexico, authorities said. 
"Some of them had stuck their arms out trying to get out, but they just didn't make it," said sheriff's Lt. Bill Chamness. "When the deputies dove in to gl~t them, they were already dead." 
The driver and one passenger escaped through windows with minor injuries as the panel van sank in 12 feet of murky water, he said. Nine men and one woman couldn't get out, he said. 
"We think it was probably due to dense fog," Chamness said. "In the accident ·area, there's a curve. Evidently they got on the curve quicker than they thought, and instead of turning they went straight into the canal." 

The driver "made no attempt to turn, and he's driven this road many times." he said. 

U.S. gets a look at Soviet nuclear power 
r WASHINGTON (APJ -U.S. and Soviet negotiators, seeking 
r to speed work on a proposed arms pact, have agreed to the first ever peek at each other's nuclear warheads, U.S. spokesmen said Wednesday. Under the terms of a little publicized protocol signed in Geneva on Monday, U.S. and Soviet inspectors will take a close look sometime this spring at warheads atop one each of the other side's land-based and submarine-launched ballistic missiles, the spokesmen said. Determining the exact num­ber of warheads aboard mis­siles and bombers \)'ill be key when the two sides complete work on the Strategic Arms Heduction Treaty. to cut super­power arsenals by 30 percent to 50 percent. Secretary of State James Baker is to hold talks in Moscow on Feb. 6-7 with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze in an effort to speed work on the START ac­cord for possible signing at an expected summit next June. Three previous arms control treaties have not been ratified by the Senate, in large measure because of doubts that they eould be verified. Under the new protocol, the Soviets also will have a chance to look at two U.S. B-1 B bombers. and the Americans at two Soviet Tupolev-95 "Bear" 
!AMERICAN CANCERSOCIETYS 

1 Notre Dame and I 1 Saint Mary's: I 
r------------­
I II 
I Its SYR time
I again... 1 Give your date a J lasting memento 
1
from 1 

S/1&..· 
with this coupon receive 20% off all corsages and boutonnieres 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 5936 Grape Rd. ,Mishawaka (near Pharmar) 277-5935 
bombers. One version will be designed to carry cruise mis­siles and the other to carry standard bombs. 
. The Soviet ballistic missiles to be inspected are the landbased SS-18 and the the submarine­launched SS-N-23, said Matthew Murphy, a spokesman for the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. 
The Soviets say the SS-18, like the U.S. MX missile, carries 10 warheads, although one in­telligence source said that the big Soviet booster can lift up to 20 nuclear devices. The Soviets will get a close look under the tip of an MX and the new D-5, to be deployed aboard sub­marines starting this March. 
The D-5 is designed to carry eight and the SS-N-23 to carry four warheads, according to information published by the two sides. 
"This agreement marks the first time that the U.S. and the Soviet Union will inspect a number of each other's nuclear warheads on ballistic missiles," said a statement read by David Denny, a State Department spokesman. 
The exact time and place of the inspections has not been disclosed. 
President Bush last June pro­posed that the two sides test verification techniques before conclusion df START, an unusual step designed to en-
But the driver told investiga­tors he lost control of the van when the steering failed, said Florida Highway Patrol Maj. Mike Kirby in Tallahassee. 
"That van will be meticu­lously scrutinized in the next day or two," Kirby said. 
Chamness said the privately owned van went straight for 50 yards instead of making the curve on a county road about six miles south of this Lake Okeechobee farm community, which is about 100 miles northwest of Miami. 
The road cuts through a sugar cane district intersected by numerous irrigation and drainage canals, Chamness said. 
The accident occurred at about 7:30 a.m. EST. but the sheriffs office didn't receive word until 7:46 a.m. The first deputies to arrive dove into the water in a fruitless rescue ef­fort. 

"They could feel some of the arms out of the window but they were dead," the lieutenan1 said. "There was nothing you could do." 
A sheriffs diver who attached a tow-truck cable to the back of the sunken van estimated visibility in the 50-foot-wide canal was only about 2 feet, Chamness said. 
The surviving passenger, Nicolas Escobedo, 50, was in­terviewed briefly outside the Aiken-Davis funeral home, where all of the bodies were taken. 
"It happened very fast. We were on the road, and then the next I knew we were under wa­ter," he said in Spanish. 
Escobedo said all of the workers were living in LaBelle, and many were related. Eleanor Hough, spokeswoman at Hendry General Hospital. said the driver's wife was one of the victims. 
The driver was admitted to Hendry General Hospital in stable condition for observa­tion. said emergency room nurse Maggie Kocher. She did not release his name. Escobedo was treated and released. 
The two suffered "just mini­mal injuries," such as scrapes and bruises and showed no signs of broken bones or inter­nal injuries, she said. 

Safety event planned for SMC 
By COLLEEN TRAVERS 
News Writer 
A possible two day safety and security event was dis­cussed at Saint Mary's Board of Student Affairs meeting Wednesday night. 
The event would include a short video on date rape, followed by various speakers from the Saint Mary's and South Bend community. It would be based on personal rights and responsibilities. according to Mary Beth Blajda, vice president of 
hance ability to monitor the compliance of the other side. 
At the 1987 Washington summit, the sides agreed on the number of warheads to be at­tributed to each existing type of strategic ballistic missile and on the need for inspections. 
Precautions will be taken to ensure that the inspectors learn as little as possible about the internal design of the war­heads, possible by shrouding them in cloths so that opposing experts see. only several lumps inside the delivery vehicles, said one source. 
"It's the dance of the seven veils," said the source. 
In a separate development. the State Department said U.S. 
student affairs. 
The two day event is tenta­tively scheduled for Feb. 27 and 28. 
Also scheduled is a presen­tation on karate and self de­fense. This will be held in Angela Athletic Facility, possibly before the nightly aerobics. 
Board member Tina Don­ahue suggested that some teachers use the presenta­tions as part of their class agenda. 
"Especially in the Woman's Studies classes ... it would al­low more students to partic­ipate and become involved." 
Donahue also suggested that the women of Notre Dame be formally invited to create more involvement. 
Also discussed were the dates of many social activi­ties, such as hall and class dances, which will be an­nounced in the next few weeks. Saint Mary's will also be participating in a waste recycling program. It will be similar to that of Notre Dame's, and there will be boxes in every hall section. 


is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
News Copy Editor 
To apply, or for further information, please submit a one-page personal statement to Matt Gallagher (239-5303). 
officials still hope to sign at the \.;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~ June summit an agreement on two unratified nuclear test treaties from the 1970s. 
----...-. 


........................... 
The World Hunger Coalition is again sponsoring the Wednesday Lunch Fastl 
By gluing up your lunch euery Wednesday during the 
semester the WHC recelues funds from Uniuersity Food Seruices which they distribute to hunger relief organizations Including the International Deuelopment EHchange, the Choi-Chol Foundation and Carltads Bangladesh. 

• So Please, fight the battle against hunger. Sign up for the Wednesday Lunch Fast 
in th'e dining halls today and tomorrow and also Friday, January 26, at lunch-or... 
1 

Call H2631 or H4229 anytime and leaue a message to 
1 

participate. 
~--~---------~-.-~-..,~ ..--,~ ......-...~ -......-~-.-------~------~------~---~ ---~ ...~ ...~ ­
..,~ ..,~ ... ~ --.........~-... ....,
~ 
-~ -~-~

r-----------------------------------------------­
Thursday, January 25, 1990 The Observer pageS 
U.S. condemns repression from Haitian goverrtment 
WASHINGTON  (AP)  - The  ."•  rectly and are not handled by  
State Department criticized on  (  {  · ·,  Haitian authorities.  
Wednesday as "outrageous and  -,.  The only government-to-gov­ 
indefensible" the Haitian gov­ -H  - ernment aid provided to Haiti  
ernment's expulsion of demo­ ~  -~~~­.•~  since November 1987 was $10  
eratic opposition  leaders and  A\/i<_~n~  •.  million in food assistance last  
other measures to silence dis­ - ·'Y)\ t·  .,..  year.  
sent.  ~  "The actions of the  Haitian  
In a follow-up to the weekend  government have been outra­ 
expulsion  of  four  prominent  geous  and  indefensible,"  
politicians. Ilaitian authorities  ()  Tutwiler said. "They will affect  
arrestf'd a leading business fig- U.S.-Haitian relations and the  
ure  TUI~sday  and  ordered  prospect  for  future  aid.  You  
broadcast outlets  to  air  only  cannot  destroy democracy in  
govermmmt-approved news.  order to save it."  
State  Department  A  Haitian  Information  
spokeswoman  Margaret  Ministry statement told broad­ 
Tutwilf'r called the measures a  casters  that it  must  approve  
"blatant assault" on civil liber­ their local  news  reports, and  
ties that puts at risk the demo- ordered them to "refrain from'  
eratie  transition  the  govnrn- AP Photo  relaying  or  broadcasting any  
ment has promisnd.  Rev. Gerard Juste of the Haitian Refugee Center has refugees in Miam i sign a petition asking President  information on Haiti from sta­ 
"We call upon the gov 1 ~rnment  Bush to ban the deportation of Hai tians because of unrest and a "state of siege."  tions  broadcasting"  from  
of llaiti  to  epase any actions  emergency measures."  humanitarian  aid  funnelled  Department  officials  denied  abroad.  
which  infringe  on  freedom  of  Under questioning, Tutwiler  through private groups might  that the option was being con-·  Stations also were told not to  
speech and other basic human  raised  the  possibility  that  a  be curtailed.  sidered, noting that the funds  broadcast anything "likely to  
rights  and  (to)  rescind  its  $41.4 million program of U.S.  Later, however. other State  benefit the Haitian people di­ incite agitation."  

'Magician' seeks to rid neighborhood of billboard ads 
CHICAGO lAP) -The paint­brush-wielding "magician" who made several billboards disap­pear under coats of white paint said Wednesday he's fed up with glamorous ads touting to­bacco and alcohol in inner-city neighborhoods. 
But a billboard company spokesman said the paint jobs am vandalism. 
The painter, who's taken the pseudonym Mandrake aftlr the comic-strip magician, said bill­board ads in predominantly black and Hispanic neighbor­
hoods  on  the South  Side  are  
aimed  at  young  people  and  
promote dangerous vices.  

Mandrake, who described himself as a 54-year-old black professional but declined to give his real name, said he's taken a paintbrush to bill­boards three times in broad daylight because the ads cor­rupt young people. "I have seen over the past 
two years a disproportionate amount of advertising in the black and Hispanic commu­nity," he said in a telephone in­terview. "I believe it was time for us to stand up and fight back. 
''I'm a firm believer in the Constitution and believe the law was broken ... but at the same time, there is a moral obliga­tion. a right, that must be ad­dressed," he said. 
Geoff Obrzut, a spokesman for national billboard company Patrick Media, said he filed a police report Wednesday. 
"lie's obviously vandalizing private property," Obrzut said in a telephone interview. "We would be willing to prosecute if he's caught." 
Mandrake's actions have helped fuel a controversy over the targeting of minorities by alcohol and tobacco companies. 
On one side stand consumer advocates alarmed by the num­ber of people from inner-city communities dying from smok­ing-and drinking-related ill­nesses. 
On the other side are industry representatives, who dismiss attacks on such advertising as an infringement of the constitu­tional right to freedom of speech. Industry representa­tives contend that ads specifi­cally aimed at minorities are harmless and that people make their own decision about whether to light up or take a drink. 
However, the lung cancer rate has increased four times faster among blac.ks than among whites in the past 30 years, ac­cording to reports from the American Lung Association and the National Cancer Institute. 
A 1987 study by the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a health advocacy group based in Washington, found that black men have a 70 percent higher death rate from cirrhosis of the liver than whites. 

The health advocacy group contends that children are be­ing encouraged by the billboard ads. 
"Children on the way to school and back home or even at recess get the message that the way to be happy, glam­orous, or athletic is to smok(l and-or drink," a center publi­cation said. 
Obrzut disagreed, saying that while 50 percent of billboard advertising does occur in the inner city, a company study found that only 16 percent of Chicago's 2,500 billboards were alcohol-or tobacco-related. 
Gary Miller, a spokesman for the American Tobacco Institute in Washington, said studies also show that young people become smokers primarily be­cause of peer group pressures and parental influence. 
NOW! WE HAVE DELIVERY 

Call 277-7744 

Subway is delivering to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses during the following times: 
5 p.m.-12 Midnight Mon.-Sun. 
e=.i!J;IJ:;fi) 
State Road 23 and Ironwood 


He said tobacco companies might advertise to minorities because more minorities than whites tend to be smokers. 
"Just like an effective adver­tisement, you try to reach those people to whom it appeals," Miller said in a telephone inter­view. 
Janet Flynn of the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, echoed Miller's senti­ments, saying: "We restrict our advertising to responsible adult customers.'' 
In Baltimore, pressure from various groups led an advertis­ing company to remove much of its black-oriented advertising. 
And R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. recently scrapped plans to test market Uptown, a new ci­garette aimed at the black community, after opposition from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. ' 
Meet 
continued from page 1 
that students choose to attend 
Catholic Universities. 
The idea of the association began when student leaders at Notre Dame discussed the pos­sibility of organizing a unified Catholic student voice with stu­dent leaders at other Catholic Universities last spring. 
The discussions raised awareness among student lead­ers of the potential power a voice of over 400,000 people may have. 
Clarification 
The following information was omitted from a brief appearing on Page 2 of Tuesday's Observer. Char­lotte Ames, associate librar­ian, compiled the bibliogra­phy of major and unpub­lished works about and se­lected works by University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh to be included in "Theodore M. Hesburgh: A Bio-Bibliogra­phy." 
COMMIT YOURSELF. 
Be a volunteer. 
page 6 The Observer Thursday, January 25, 1990 
Fellowships awarded to Notre Dame graduate students 
Special to The Observer 
Several students in the 

University of Notre Dame's 
Graduate School received pres­
tigious fellowships and awards 
for study during the 1989-90 
academic year. 
Handall Kolar, a graduate student in civil engineering, re­ceived a National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Fellowship. Lance Perez, a graduate student in electrical and computer engineering re­eeived an NSF Graduate Hesearch Fellowship. John Nieto. a graduate student in philosophy, received an NSF Minority Graduate Fellowship. 
The NSF fellowships provide support for outstanding stu­dents pursuing advanced de­grees in seience, mathematics and engineering. Last year, only 685 of the nearly 5,150 stu­dents submitting applications received NSF Graduate Fellowships. Only 75 of the 740 students submitting applica­tions received NSF Minority Graduate Fellowships. 
Thomas llur and David Quackenbush, both graduate students in philosophy. were among the 120 graduate stu­dents nationwide to receive 
Social 
continued from page 1 
curity with private retirement plans. The president's refusal at a news conference to reject the Porter-Gingrich proposal was quiekly criticized by Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan. the New York Democrat whose own tax-eut plan was dismissed by Bush. 
Moynihan. who is considered one of the government's top authorities on Social Security, said of the Hepublican con­gressmen's proposal, "The pre.,ident described that as 'innovative thinking'. Was it in­novative thinking after 50 years of steady payments to start dismantling Soeial Security? I don't think so." 
The subject of Social Security arose at Bush's news confer­ence when he was asked about Moynihan's plan to roll back this year's tax increase and re­duee one sehedul<~d next year. The aim of the bill -whieh has attracted widespread interest. if not support. in Congress -is to halt the use of surplus Social Security taxes to make the fed­eral deficit appear far smaller than it is. 
Bush said he sees no need for any major change in Social Se­curity at this time. "I think the systmn has been. in and out over the years. basieally a pretty fair system," he said. 
Moynihan's bill is "a disguise for increased taxes around the corner," Bush said. "This is a ... sleight-of-hand operation." he added, noting that shortly after Moynihan outlined his plan, Sen. Ernest Hollings, D­
ANNIE HALL 
Woody Allen FRI and SAT 


awards from the Jacob K. 
Javits Fellows Program in 
1989-90. They join James 
!larder, a graduate student in 
economics and Marie Kramb 
and Margaret Stein, both grad­
uate students in English, as 
Javits Fellows at Notre Dame. 
The Javits Fellows Program, administered by the U. S. Department of Education, of­fers scholarship awards to doctoral students in the arts, humanities and social sciences. 
Bryce Cole, a graduate stu­dent in civil engineering and Timothy Power, a graduate student in government and in­ternational studies, received Fulbright Scholar Awards to study in Germany and Brazil, respectively. 
During the 1989-90 academic year, 639 of these awards were granted to 3048 applicants. Funded primarily by the U.S. government with additional contributions from other na­tions, the Fulbright awards are intended to foster international understanding by supporting a variety of educational activities. 
In addition, five international students received Fulbright awards to study at Notre Dame. They are Christophe Kougniazonde and Guillaume 
S.C., proposed to replace rev­enues from the reduced Social Security taxes with a national sales tax. 
"There is no sleight of hand whatsoever," Moynihan replied, "and I do not see that there was any need to make such a characterization." 
Lawmakers from both parties have expressed displeasure that Social Security surpluses ­which are building at the rate of $1 billion a week -are being used for defieit reduction, rather than being invested solely for the benefit of future retirees. 
Moynihan has been speaking on this issue for months. But it grabbed public attention for the first time when, during a slow news period over the De­cember holidays. he called for cutting the taxes if they are not going to be saved for Social Se­curity. 
There were these other devel­opments Wednesday: 
-Bush said Congress should wait to see his own proposal for gradually taking Social Se­curity surpluses out of the fed­eral defieit calculation. That long-range plan, starting in 1993. would require that a growing portion of the surplus be used to retire publicly held debt. 
-House Speaker Thomas Foley, D-Wash., said he has se­rious reservations about Moynihan's proposed tax cut. 
BATMAN, WHEN HARRY MET SALLY 
Tonight starting at 7pm at the 
1(nigfits of Co{um6us !J{a{{ 'Everyone is we{come! 
Zounlome, both from Benin, 

and Fausto Diaz and Oscar 
Aguilar, both from Mexico, all 
graduate students in govern­
ment and international studies, 
and Irene Perurena from 
Panama, a graduate student in 
peace studies. 
Theresa Hice, a graduate stu­dent in medieval studies, re­ceived a Mellon Fellowship in the Humanities. Between 100 and 125 of these fellowships are given annually to promising eollege seniors or reeent grad­uates interested in careers as teachers and scholars in the humanities. 
Elizabeth Abeyta-Price, a graduate student in psychology and Jose Hobledo, a graduate student in civil engineering, re­ceived National Research Council/Ford Foundation Doctoral Fellowships for Minorities Awards. For the 1989-90 academic year, 55 of these fellowships were awarded nationwide. 
International students, Hodrigo Atria from Chile and Gabriela Ippolito and Maria Oilier, both from Argentina, all graduate students in govern­ment and international studies, received Ford Foundation Fellowships for study at Notre Dame. 

Carina Perelli, a graduate student in government and in­ternational studies, received a Social Science Heseareh Council/MacArthur Foundation Dissertation Fellowship in International Peace and Security. This fellowship, ad­ministered by the Social Science Research Couneil with funds from the John D. and Catherine 
T. MacArthur Foundation, is intended to encourage critical thinking about significant pol­icy issues and the development of new perspectives on interna­tional affairs. 
Cheryl Schrader, a graduate student in electrical and com­puter engineering, reeeived an American Association of University Women (AAUW) Selected Professions Fellowship and a ZONTZ Amelia Earhart Fellowship. 
The AAUW fellowships were given to 197 graduate students nationwide in 1989-90. ZONTA International, an organization of executive women, awards the Amelia Earhart Fellowship in memory of the aviation pioneer who was one of its most fa­mous members. The fellowship supports qualified women doing graduate study in aerospace-related fields. 
Maria Aguirre, a graduate student in economics. and David Dixon and Juan Guerin, both graduate students in gov­ernment and international studies, received Dorothy Danforth Compton Fellowships. These fellowships. administered by the Institute for the Study of World Politics with funds from the Compton Foundation of New York and the Danforth Foundation of Saint Louis, support graduate students in­tending to pursue teaching, business, diplomatic, or legal careers in international rela­tions. 
David Lowell !lay, a graduate student in history received an Ameriean Historical Association Fellowship in Aerospace History. 
Alan Gibson, a graduate stu­dent in government and inter­national studies, received an Ameriean Antiquarian Society/Frances Hiatt Fellowship. 

Laurel Jordan, a graduate student in theology, received a John Wesley Fellowship from the Fund for Theological Education. 

DAYTONA BEACH fromS129* 
THE REEF AND CAROUSEL HOTELS & KITCHENETTES • 7 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND fromS129* 
SHERATON CONDO & HOTEL, GULF VIEW, LANDFALL TOWER, SAIDA CONDOS, HOLIDAY INN • 5 OR 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT from s101 * 
SHADOW RUN CONDOS OR OVERLOOK HOTEL • 2, 5 OR 7 NIGHTS WITH ALL LIFTS -PICNIC -RACE 
FORT LAUDERDALE fromS132* 
LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL • 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND fromS127* 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND BEACH & TENNIS RESORT CONDOS • 7 NIGHTS 
CORPUS CHRISTI/MUSTANG ISLAND fromsgg· 
PORT ROYAL OCEAN RESORT CONDOS • 5 OR 7 NIGHTS 
DON•J DELAY! CENTRAL SPRING BREAK 1~~ INFORMATION &RESERVATIONS 

1·800·321·5911 
7AM-7PM M-Th, 7AM·5PM Fri, 9AM-5PM Sat, Mountain Standard Time Reservations may be made by credit card
.CICCI]iii 

24 HOUR FAX RESERVATIONS f303J 225·1514 
• Oependmg on break dates and length ot stay 

Business 
Thursday, Januacy 25, 1990 page 7 
Global markets threatened_by downturn 
NEW YORK (AP) -The Wednesday: what happened earlier in domestic economy, many be a recession aggravated by upward spiral that carried the Share prices in the Tokyo foreign financial centers. analysts fear, U.S. interest high borrowing costs. stock markets of the world to stock market, which has been The Dow Jones average of 30 .rates will be forced higher just However, a sizable optimistic new highs through much of the under intermittent pressure industrials fell about 60 points to stay competitive with higher contingent in the financial 1980s now seems to be because of rising interest rates in early trading, on top of a yields on securities available to world maintains that events threatening to transform itself in Japan, posted a sharp loss, loss of nearly 195 points over investors in the Far East and aren't likely to reach that into a vicious cycle in the other driving the bellwether Nikkei the past three weeks, -before Europe. stage. direction. index of 225 issues down staging a partial recovery to That worry was reinforced World markets toppled in 
The catch phrase "global 599.04 points to 36,778.98. finish at 2,604.50, down 10.82 Tuesday when a government domino fashion during the investing" suddenly no longer As the business day shifted to on the day. sale of 40-year bonds to crash of 1987, but started conjures up the heady images it Europe, stocks dropped in At the same time, interest finance a rescue plan for coming back strong within a once evoked in the minds of London in selling attributed rates on U.S. government troubled thrift institutions matter of months, paced by an Wall Street brokers and their both to the decline in Japan and securities continued their drew a very chilly reception especially brisk recovery in customers. fears of a shaky session in New recent rise, which was touched from investors. Japan, these observers recall. 
The new sequence that has York. off by tightening monetary At the extreme, some This time, some suggest, the unsettled so many investors Then, trading began on Wall conditions abroad. observers worry, the next U.S. bond market could take a and business planners played Street with a burst of selling No matter what the Federal noteworthy "export" to the leading role in stabilizing the 
out in tvnical fashion that seemed 
Good things don't always come in small packages . . . 
ThePrudent1al ~ 

Comptroller's Organization 
If you're the best, looking to join the biggest . . . 
Come and explore your employment opportunities with America's leading financial institution. 
he Comptroller's Organization will be on campu · interviewing students of all majors. 
(Accounting, Finance, Liberal, etc.) 
February 6 interviews at the Career Placement Office 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE 
Februrary 5 info session and reception, 7 PM Alumni Room Lower Level Morris Inn 

for the TTniterl States from Japan could situation. 
Playboy's new home abandons racy image 
CHICAGO (AP) -Four -but feature airier office Playmates and a bronze bunny space and a two-story, skylit greeted visitors Tuesday to atrium displaying valuable Playboy Enterprises Inc.'s new company-owned artworks. headquarters, a gleaming The new headquarters are corporate hutch that reflects less than three blocks from the the company's hopes for 36-story tower that housed rebounding profits. Playboy's corporate offices for 
The new digs mark a slight 22 years. Playboy says the move departure in image for the will save the company $11 publishing and video company million over the 15-year term of built on flesh and fantasy. The the lease. Playboy sign atop its former The smaller but airier new skyscraper headquarters on headquarters, Ms. Hefner said Michigan Avenue will be going in a telephone interview, "make into storage with founder Hugh a symbolic statement about this Hefner's round bed and other company being renewed, re­icons of Playboy's racier past. energized and entering another 
Hefner skipped the invitation­era of creativity." only headquarters Playboy is indeed showing housewarming party Tuesday renewed vigor, 37 years after night. At 63, the onetime king Hugh Hefner launched the of the swinging singles is company's flesh-and-fashion working on his autobiography flagship magazine from his and settled in his Los Angeles kitchen table in Chicago with a mansion with his pregnant $600 investment. wife, former Playboy centerfold Although Playboy magazine's Kimberley Conrad. circulation is nowhere near its 
Hefner still owns about 70 1972 peak of 7.2 million, it has percent of the company's stock held at roughly 3.5 million for but daughter Christie Hefner, almost five years while sales of Playboy's chairman since harder-core men's magazines November 1988, runs the such as Penthouse and Hustler Chicago-based company. She have fallen. has run Playboy's day-to-day operations since 1982, when Under the direction of Ms. she became president. Hefner, Playboy has made a 
Playboy's new headquarters successful push into home atop a 16-story downtown video, retooled its broadcast building fronting Lake television operations, increased Michigan are smaller -product licensing and expanded 100,000 square feet compared its publishing business into art with 125,000 in its old building prints and catalogs. 
Attempting to study for the MCAT alone would be nearly impossible. Attempting to study without Stanley H. Kaplan would simply be a bad career moye. 
Maybe it's our 50 years ofexperience. Our small classes. Or the advanced teaching methods we use in all our classes all across the country. 
Whatever it is, if medical school is your future, Stanley Kaplan can help you stan practicing right now. 
ESTANLEY H. KAPlAN 
& Tak£ Kaplan OrTakeYourCl1ances 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSS1BLE! 1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, January 25, 1990

page 8 
The -Obset:Ver 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a R1ch Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Al1son Cocks Accent Editor John Bias, Systems Mgr Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Ba1ley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstme G1ll Controller Anne L1ndner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the studenls of lhe Un1vers1· ly of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol· ,c,es of the adm•mstra!lon of e1ther mstitut1on The news 1s reported as accurately and ob· jectlvely as possible. Lfns1gned ed1tonals represent lhe op1mon of the matonty of the lollow1ng Edltor·1n-Ch1ef, Manag1ng Ed1tor, Execut1ve News Ed1tor V1ewpomt Editor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Samt Mary's Ed1tor Commenlanes. letters. and the lns1de Column present lhe v1ews of thelf authors Column space IS available to all members of the community and lhe free express1on of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. lhrough letters, 1s encouraged. 
Right to life of unborn baby takes precedence 

By Manuel Espino 
Last Monday l was one of the many who marched in our na­tion's capital to express disap­proval concerning the Supreme Court's 1973 Roe v. Wade deci­sion. It has been 17 years since the court ruled that abortion is legal in all states on demand for any reason whatsoever up until pregnancy. Since then, states have placed restrictions on abortion, with the health of the mother being foremost among concerns, and the un­born child's being nonexistent. 
Though different polls show that most people favor freedom 


of choice, or death as it should be called, most people with whom I have conversed feel that abortion should not be used as a form of birth control. 
However, arguments in favor of abortion exist for so many "rare" cases, such as the health of the mother, rape, and incest. The first case is understand­ably a very touchy case; the second, very rare; the .latter, downright difficult. Yet another argument, a socioeconomic one, for abortion is that certain people cannot afford to raise another child. 
In my experiences as a pro­lifl~r. as a pt~rson growing up in Fort Worth's poverty-stricken north side, and as a student at­tending a predominantly black high school, I have witnessed how abortion is used and have developed my own beliefs about abortion with religion playing no part in my decision. 
The foundation for my beliefs, though I did not know at the time, came on April 28, 1974. I never knew before how much I loved my family until I became aware that one-third of it might never have come into this 
world.  My  younger  brother,  
now  a  sophomore  in  high  
DOONESBURY  

ElWJI(T, tr5 8taJ 50Me TIMe SINCe >tV wm tA5TON THe $HOW. II/HATHAVe 'I(){) 8/JeN UP7D, 81JPPY ~ 
school, could have been another statistic. My mother had a diffi­cult time delivering babies, and quite honestly, did not think she could have children after she delivered me. So when she be­came pregnant five years later, it was great cause for worry. 
She experienced a lot of com­plications, and the doctors suggested that she have an abortion because it would probably come down to only one surviving the delivery. She and my father never had a doubt that it would come down to fate -whatever would hap­pen would happen. As it turned out, both of them are healthy, though my mother can no longer have children naturally. 
The other third of my family came into the Espino household on August 16, 1984, ten years after my younger brother. She, too, could have been aborted because her natural mother al­ready had 10 children and could not afford to have an-
THe t;;TORJES I COUW Teu. 
Y()4 YOU I<NCJIQ /tHAT l'M 91f'!tN; MA/?X~ I MMN,7He ~85 
I COUW 1l#.l. YOU NCW! 
other. However, since my mom wanted another child, she agreed to adopt this woman's next-born. We helped her out with maternity clothes and the hospital bills, and as it turned out, I have a bright, vivacious, younger sister, whom I love dearly. 
As for the other cases in which abortions are used ­convenience, rape, and incest­
· I feel that we were all fetuses at one time or another. We could have all been aborted. Maybe not legally, but what if our brothers, sisters, or even us, were one of those 4,400 aborted daily and 1,606,000 aborted yearly? 
To me, abortion is murder, and once we start making ex­ceptions for rape, incest, health to the mother, or any other cases, we are qualifying mur­der. We cannot do that. Thus, along with the National Right to Life President, Nellie Gray, we need support in enacting a Paramount Human Life Amendment that protects life from conception, a stage we all have endured. 

So, I urge the Notre Dame community to get more involved in pro-life work, be it through out Right to Life chapter, polit­ical lobbying and mar:ches, or even personal means. Let's all work for the most fundamental right of all -life. 
Manuel Hspino is a sopho­more in the College of Business Administration. 
LETTERS 
Sex involves taking responsibility for possible outcomes like childbirth 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Kurt Mills' Viewpoint article (The Observer, Jan. 23) con­cerning the Catholic Church's view on abortion. I feel that Mr. Mills has over-simplified the problem by reducing the issue of abortion to that of a woman's right to decide what to do with her own body. 
The woman is not the only human being involved in the consequences .of the decision; therefore, she should not be alone in the decision-making process. Although Mr. Mills felt compelled to take the liberty to dispel all noble and sincere in­tentions of fathering males, they are part of the process and de have rights: the right to sustain and, yes, care for the life which he has taken part in creating. 
Most importantly, he fails to even mention the rights of the unborn baby. Babies, in their earliest stages, do not have the capacity to exist independently but are nonetheless creations of God. The fact that unborn babies, helpless though they may be, do have human souls 
should cause us, as Christians, 
to take issue with the discon­
tinuance of their physical being. 
Another point that the author fails to explore is that women actually do exercise the right of choice when they choose to have sex. The writer's argu­ment that women should have the ultimate deeision is already solidified. A woman exercises her right whether or not to ab­stain from sex, and it is my personal belief that both men and women engaging in sex should realize the possible con­sequences of their action. 
Exercising the right of abor­tion after-the-faet is a cop-out. I am not a chauvi.nist who fails to recognize a female's rights, nor do I feel that any woman should be reduced to a baby' factory. I do feel, as a Catholic, that after a woman has chosen to engage in sex that the deci­sion then is forfeited to an almighty power much greater than you or I. So please, let God decide. 
Charles S. Moser Flanner 1/all Jan. 23, 1990. 

Correction: A Viewpoint letter in yesterday's issue stated that 150 students participate in esc activities each year. The actual number is 1 ,500 students. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 
'The main object of religion is 
not to get a man into heaven, but 
to get heaven into him.' 
Thomas Hardy 
Accent

Thursday, January 25, 1990 
Noises Off 
St. Edward's Hall presents a hilarious display of talent 
JASON WINSLADE turned around, and the audi­accent writer ence is given a backstage view. Finally, the audience sees the 
·­

It's not Shakespeare. It's not act performed from the front. a Western. It's not paprika. At this point, it is so distorted· What is it? It's sardines, flow­that the confusion, flubbed ers, a cactus, a bottle of booze, lines and misplaced props are a telephone, a lost contact lens. hilarious. It's bunny ears. boxes, bags, The rehearsal scene intro­dresses and doorknobs. It's duces the flamboyant actors Michael Frayn's recent contrasted with their more se­Broadway farce of the theater rious, yet equally comical char­profession, Noises Off. acters. The most enjoyable con­
The play is brought to you by trast comes from Thomas Ni­aging alcoholic and wildly ges­ing. Not one performance is their parts with comic flair, the people who gave you Ten entimp's portrayal of foppish ticulating actor, Selsdon Mow­weak, and each has character they handle the technical aspect Little Indians, the St. Edward's and effeminate actor, Garry Le­bray (Patrick Brennan). idiosyncrasies which make of the play perfectly. The comic Hall Players. Directed by St. jeune, and his more manly . Nothing On is directed by them a delight to watch. You timing, prop handling, sight Ed's President Raul Gonzales, character, Roger Tramplemain. impatient philanderer Lloyd will probably try to watch all of gags, innuendos, and pitfalls Noises Off has a play-within-a­Also excellent was Eric B. Dallas (Paul Gleixner). The them at once. are what make the show a non­play format not often tackled Hurtt's portrayal of nervous stage managers are the bum­The British accents are won­stop roller coaster ride of com­on a college level. It is billed as and frail actor, Frederick Fel­bling Poppy Norton-Taylor derful, though the thicker ones edy which lends a new meaning "a play in one act, three times." lowes, and his more distin­(Wendy Verkler) and the lech­are harder to follow. They pro­to the phrase "comic relief." 
First, the audience sees the guished character, Philip Brent. erous Tim Allgood (Rich vide a marvelous contrast be­opening act of the production The scene also includes Dotty Burke). tween the polite, but nasty, Noises Off plays at Washing­
~. 
Nothing On in rehearsal. Then, Otley (Judy Hilbrich) and her A word of warning about Lloyd and the British actors ton Hall Thursday through the same act is seen in perfor­cockney-drawling character viewing Noises Off: Come pre­and the swearing American, Saturday at 8:10 p.m. and on mance, but only after the re­Mrs. Clackett, posh actress Be­pared. Be very alert, try to Tim, whose attempt at acting in Sunday at 2:10p.m. Tickets are versible set. simply but effec­linda Blair (Mary Kathryn watch all sides of the stage at Nothing On is nothing short of available in advance at the tively designed by Philip Larsen), dizzy actress Brooke once and leave plenty of room hilarious. LaFortune Information Desk Pietraszewski, is completely Ashton (Tanya Braukman), and to fall out of your seat laugh-Not only do the actors play for $3 and at the door for $4. 
Street Law turns NO students into teachers 
the kids stay out of trouble and pace. They're also exposed to

MICHELLE DALL 
accent writer realize the consequences of the expertise of someone who their actions." has nearly completed a full 
Notre Dame law students are Street Law, a nation-wide legal education and just really getting a chance to preach program, was introduced at the knows his stuff .... the law stu­what they practice. Georgetown Law Center 15 dents are unusually motivated 
Twice a week. law school se­years ago. In 1979, David Link, and absolutely dynamic on their 
niors participating in the dean of the Notre Dame Law feet," he.added. University's Street Law pro­School, and former Notre Clay senior Mike Molnar says gram travel to area high Dame Professor Charles "there's no question" he would schools to teach local teens Crutchfield brought the pro­participate in the program 
about the American legal sys­gram to South Bend. Roemer again. "The class has given me tl'm and its pffect on their lives. assumed control of Street Law a lot of knowledge (about the The purpose of Stroet Law is when Crutchfield retired in law)," he commented. "Maybe to tPach high school kids 1983. someday I'll be a juror in a real "street smarts" by applying case, and I'll be able to under­
normally terhnical legal con­Between 20 and 50 law school stand the system a little better cepts to actual events in the seniors participate in the pro­since I took this class." students' daily lives. according gram every semester. The num­"A lot of these kids have mis­to James Hoerner, Street Law ber of applicants typically conceptions about the law," coordinator and din~ctor of triples between the first and McDonnell explained. "They 
community rPiations at Notre second semester, Roemer said. just know what they've seen on Dame. lie attributes this increase to 'Night Court' or 'L.A. Each class of high school se­demanding fall course loads as Law' .... People think of law pri­
niors is typically team-taught well as job interviews, which marily as legal enforcement, by a pair of law students who are primarily conducted in the but that's really just a minute receive two hours of academic first semester. part of the law -even though 
credit. The sessions address Six area high schools play it's the most visible, " he ex­several topics such as civil lib­host to the Street Law pro­plained. 
erties. family and consumer law gram, including Clay, Chastity Johnson, another and criminal procedure. "We Washington, Adams, Penn, St. Clay student, echoes, "You may try to deal with relevant topics Joseph's and Gilean. The law think a law says one thing, but As well as acquiring practical to them in layman's terms," she 
-issues which interest high students generally teach at the sometimes it really means experience, law students in the said. something completely differ­McDonnell commented, ''I've
school students and touch their school of their choice, accord­program are expected to ex­lives," said Mary Cole, a law ing to Roemer. They base their ent." press their ideas clearly in always believed that you've "This class helps high school never really learned something 
school senior who led a class at decision largely on personal front of large groups and think Clay High School last semester. preferences and the various students realize how much the -quickly on their feet, said unless you can teach it. Your 
The law students work with times the course is offered at law touches their lives, " Cole Roemer. Both of these experi­knowledge is only as good as the high school instructors in each institution, he explained. said. "They may not realize it, ences are "invaluable practice your ability to express what preparing each semester's syl­but the minute they step outside in training for the law," he you've learned." labus, according to Roemer. Roemer said the relationships their homes, the law regulates said. "These individuals will be Roemer said he believes He said that the law students which develop during Street almost everything they do ...lt in front of people their entire Street Law's success speaks for 
itself. "The comments from
cover the course material, but Law are often symbiotic, bene­influences them when they rent lives," he explained. the teachers generally control fiting both the high school and a video, buy a book or mail a Cole, who plans to pursue a participating students motivate examinations, grading and law school seniors. letter, "she said. career in legal education, said us to continue the program," he discipline. "High school students look Law students also benefit the program is also good said. "The evaluations have 
"I try to teach the class from forward to having two from the program, according training in explaining the law been very positive." a 'cars and bars' perspective," exceptionally bright people only to Roemer. "They get a chance to individuals unacquainted On these grounds, Roemer to be of service to the commu­rules that the program should
said Mike McDonnell, another five or six years older than with the legal system. "When law student who participated in themselves come in twice a nity and fulfill a social respon­I'm an attorney, my clients will be continued. According to the the program. "Those kind of week and teach their class," he sibility," he said. "It's an exam­be the common people -not "jurors" at Clay, the high concerns are a part of every explained. "It's fun and ple of giving being even more lawyers or legal scholars -school students themselves, Roemer's verdict is sound. 
'itudent's world .... I try to help challenging -a change of rewarding than receiving." and I'll have to explain tne law 


Courtesy of J. Becker Through the Street Law program, Mike McDonnell gains experience while teaching Clay High seniors how the law influences daily life. 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, January 25, 1990 
Graf escapes upset to advance to Australian Open final 
MELBOURNE, Australia (API -Steffi Graf, suddenly looking vulnerable, barely escaped an upset Thursday to reach the Australian Open finals along with calm and confident American teen-ager Mary Joe Fernandez. 
Graf's two-year reign as Australian Open champion al­most ended in a thrilling duel with Helena Sukova. but Graf rallied from a break down in thn final set to win. 6-3, 3-6, 6­
4. 
Fernandez, 18, beat Grafs nervous West German compa­triot. Claudia Porwik, 6-2. 6-1. and said she's not worried about facing the top player in womnn's tennis. 
Sukova, who broke Martina Navratilova's record 74-match winning streak in the Australian Open in 1984, al­most paid Graf back for beat­ing her in the finals last year. 
Graf. who stretched her per­sonal-best winning streak to 4 7, played sluggishly, missing shots and moving slower than usual, and was down a break at 2-1 in the final set. But Graf broke back and kept the set on serve at 5-4. 
Sukova, serving to tie the set, double-faulted and hit a fore­hand wide to lose the game and match. 
Graf had not dropped a set in 20 previous matches in the Australian Open and had beaten Sukova 14 times in a row. Graf lost to Sukova only once before -seven years ago when Grafwas 13. 

Sukova, 24, whose late mother, Vera, was a finalist at Wimbledon in 1962, was a fi­nalist here in 1984 and last year and a finalist at the 1986 
U.S. Open, but has yet to win a Grand Slam title. 
Fernandez, displaying a style reminiscent of Chris Evert ­the last American to reach the Australian finals -prowled the baseline and ripped passing shots by the net-charging Porwik. 
Fernandez, tall and lanky with a white sweat band around her forehead and her long, brown hair tied in a pony 
tail, raced through the match in 67 minutes. 
She said knew Porwik, 21, was nervous and took advan­tage of it. 
"You could tell after the first couple of games, she was shak­ing her racket and hitting the ball up," Fernandez said. "I tried to keep on top of her the whole match." 
"I was a little bit nervous playing in a semifinal for the first time in my life," Porwik admitted. "But really I think I was just too tired. I was physi­cally tired and mentally tired and made too many mistakes." 
Porwik hit 49 errors, 20 more than Fernandez. 
Fernandez grew up near Evert in Florida and saw her as a role model. Like Evert, she fashioned her game around a two-fisted backhand and solid groundstrokes. 

Fernandnz, now 18 and a pro since 14, has grown into a strong, 5-foot-8 player with an increasingly eiTective net game -better than Evert's at the same age. 
Though she randy went to the nnt against Porwik, Fernandez ended the match thern with a cross-court backhand volley. 
Fernandez' only lapse in the second set camn in the fourth game. a long, tnnse battln in which Porwik finally broke after ninn deuces and on lwr sixth break point. 
But Fernandnz broke right back and quickly put away the match by holding and brPaking Porwik again. 
-· 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-<lay classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Word Processing 
Can return on disk 
Pick up and delivery 
271·9114 
BE YOUR OWN BOSS! 
Distributorships. Dealerships, 
Money making opportunities, 
Franchises, & Mail order, Detail, 
send $2.00 to: National Marketing 
Company, Box 3006, Boston. MA. 
02130 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
CASH FOR CARS, TRUCKS regardless of condition. 277-9954. 
USED TEXTBOOKS 
AT A DISCOUNT' 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 
corner of N.D. ave. and Howard 
I WILL TYPE ANY PAPERS AT $3 A PAGE. CALL TANYAAT239­6299. 
MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Coptes, Cards. Laser Quality For Papers. Reports. Resumes. Etc. 277·MAIL 
LOST/FOUND 
GLASSES LOST--BLACK CASE PLEASE CALL STEVE x1581 
···Lost················To whoever picked up my overcoat at the party on the 4th floor of Fisher Sat. night, 
you have my 10. wallet. and keys. I would like to eat this week and would really appreciate it if you 
would return my coat. Thanks. And by the way, I have a blue Air Force overcoat to trade with you. Mark x2937. 
Found: blue, Air Force overcoat. 
Call Mark@ x2937. 
LOST: Gold and diamond ring 
in Lalortune basement rest· 
room. Of great sentimental 
value. If found, please call Theresa @ X4856. Possible 
reward. 
LOST: Gold chain and cross at the ACC on Tues. night · Of great sentimental value. If found please call Xt002. 
LOST SILVER ROSARY DURING FINALSII PLEASE CALL IF YOU FOUND IT-MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. X4286 
LOST ---A Copper and Blue 
Swatch WATCH---Sunday Night 
outside LaFortune. If Found -­
please call x3549. 
LOST: Navy blue scarf with blue stripes between book· 
store and Flanner on 1122. Was X-mas gift from very special person. II you picked it up, please call Jim x 1160. 
WANTED 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY 
READING BOOKS! $32.000/year 
income potential. Details. (1) 602­
838-8885 Ext. Bk6262 ATIENTION: EASY WORK EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble products at home. Details (1) 602­838·8885 Ext. W-6262 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY TYPING AT HOME! 32,000/yr income potential. Details. (1) 602· 838·8885 Ext. T -6262 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1·800·343·8373 
GLACIER NATL. PARK, MT. Have the best summer of your life by joining the team rated tops in providing the best of Western hospitality to Glacier Park visitors! 1990 summer applications now being accepted for the following positions: Bar. Restaurant, and' Kitchen stalls, Desk Clerks, Salespeople, and Store Clerks, Office, Service Station, Housekeeping, and Maintenance Personnel. Interviews will be help on campus February 12-13th. Write to St. Mary lodge & Resort, 
P.O. Box 1808 Sun Valley, ID 83353 for an application. 
GRAPHIC LAYOUT DESIGNER FOR NATIONAL MONTHLY PUBLICATION. Keylining,design,layoul & darkroom knowledge preferred. flex hrs. (219)277-0033 days 
Hard Working Book People Seek Energetic Assistants 1 0+ hrslwk, flxbl sched Call288·1002, M-F 3·5 pm 
DRUMMER NEEDED! Begining band playing a wide range of music from U2, Stones to New Kids (Just Joking). Please call 2275 and ask for Mike or Dave. 
FOR RENT 
House tor 1990-91 school year Furnished, secure home, 5 bedrooms, WID Close to NO Coimpetitive rent. 264-6010 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 
NORTHWEST · 3-bdrm, gas heal, CIA, Refrigerator, washer/dryer. fenced yard, patio. $375/mo. plus utilities. Deposit required. 232· 1206. 
House for 1990-91 school year. Furnished, secure home, 6 bdrms., 2 baths, competitive rent. Close to NO. 234-6688. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291· 7153. 
FOR SALE 
1986 BUICK SKYLARK, 4-000R, AM-FM STEREO , AIR, 44,000 MILES. POWER STEERING & POWER BRAKES. 272-5651. MAKE OFFER. 
US Air roundtrip plane ticket good anywhere in U.S. until March 30th 
call Rod x4073 
Plane ticket to Florida · roundtrip will talk$ ph#1075 
TICKETS 
4 MIAMI GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 
3 Billy Joel Tickets!! Feb. 19th Market Square Arena. Best Offer Gets Tix. Call Michelle at 284-5450. 
PERSONALS 
SPRINGBREAK SAILING BAHAMAS 4511 Captained Yachts Groups of Eight • Seven Days Barefoot in the Bahamas $455.00 each All Accommodation & Meals SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE 1 -800·999-7245 Anytime 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married. warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. legal, confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864·5512 
MONICA BAOAR Hey babe, bet you thought we forgot your birthday?! Guess again! The fun has yet to begin. Happy 22nd!! 
love, the Gang 
Parrot Heads Forever!!! 
If you are taking these classes I can sell you the books cheaply: HIST "Women's Place in America" Prof. Hoy, GOTH lntro to Advertising Prof. Thurin. Call x3442. 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP 
$5.00 HAIRCUTS 
NO STUDENTS WELCOME 
1523LINCOLNWAY WEST, S.B. 
233-4767 
HI LAURA GRITZ· GUESS WHO? ITS US AGAIN. BRING US BACK A PIECE OF THE BERLIN WALL, OKAY? SEE YOU IN ABOUT 8 MONTHS!! LOVE, PITA. HOOLS, AND LAHEESA 
RIDE NEEDED 
to U of Illinois Jan 26 or Feb 2 Will pay$$ Call lynn "3848 
THINK FAST 
THINK FAST 
THINK FAST THINK FAST THINK FAST 
World Hunger Coalition Wednesday Lunch Fast SIGN-UPS Jan.24,25,26 in Dining Halls 
Or call X4229 or X2631 and leave a message to participate 

SMOKE TAXI 
Uve' 

Thursday, Jan. 25 atCiub23 
and 

Saturday, Jan. 27 at McCormick's 
•••• Happy 21st Birthday•••• CINDY LOU COUL TEA Love, Ann & Kristen 
BATMAN & WHEN HARRY MET SALLY... tonight at the Knights of Columbus hall. Everyone is welcome. 
The magic Eight-ball says, "If you dump the blond, give me a call." Make YOUR Oillonite brother proud. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TIMOTHY BAUMAN! Love, Your Roommates 
HARDBALL ENTHUSIAST: Even though I had a bueno time last weekend, I demand a rematch to tie the score. You know where to find me...l assume. 
KEYBOARD1ST wanted to join established high-energy progressive rock/dance band. Good equipment and attitude a must, backing vocals a plus. All interested contact: Dennis #3281 ... Brian #1804 
!!!TOM NEVALA!!! is 22today. Happy Birthday S.P.! love, 
Susie 

HELP contribute to TOM NEVALA'S well-being ... buy him a shot at Senior Bar tonight! He's got 22 coming to himII 
Happy 22nd TOM NEVALA!! 
Hey TomII "I fell down, and I can't get upI" That'll be you tonightl Better make a Birthday wish for one of those Medicare gadgets I Happy Birthday Old Man! 
Chris (Pugs) Kim (Benny) Gigi (the Medicare Nurse) & of course your pal Oickl 
WINTER FEST WINTERFEST WINTERFEST WINTERFEST WINTERFEST WINTERFEST WINTER FEST WINTERFEST WINTERFEST 
hiag 

And... SEAN BROWN turns 21 on Feb. 8th!!!!! HAPPY B'OAY! 
female student needed to share Campus View apt. for remainder of semester call 2774322 
WANTED: 

One male and one female lifesize. 
anatomically correct mannequins 
at the Senior Class Office by 

Friday, Jan. 26. The first person to 
bring both mannequins during 
office hours, 3-5 Mon.· Fri. 

receives a FREE Senior Formal 
bid. No questions asked. 
Stanford 121 shall rise again! (QUIETLY) 

Drummer needed for classic/hard 
rock band (singer is cousin of 

David Coverdale) Call Vu at x1809 
or x3064 

"HOW TO OBTAIN A SUMMER INTERNSHIP". A PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. TONIGHT AT 6:30 
p.m. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. All MAJORS AND DEGREES WELCOME. 
"HOW TO OBTAIN A SUMMER INTERNSHIP." A PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. TONIGHT AT 6:30 
p.m. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. All MAJORS AND DEGREES WELCOME. 
"HOW TO OBTAIN A SUMMER INTERNSHIP." A PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. TONIGHT AT 6:30 
p.m. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. All MAJORS AND DEGREES WELCOME. 
HUMANITAS JOURNAL 

now accepting essays, fiction and 
book reviews. Submit to English 
Office by feb. 16th. 

CAROLINE KLEIN """HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY••• HOPE YOU HAVE A GREAT DAY! LOVE, 
KT, PLUG, WIPE, JUGG, NYMPH AND 2B 
The Saint Mary's Observer 
office-309 Haggar-will be 
open to take classifieds 
beginning Mon. Jan 29: 
Mon-Fri: 12:30-3:00 

············selling•••••·········· 
Notre Dame Commemorative 7· 
Up Bottles 

"lne for $5 & two for $9!111! Call 
~84-4390 
:loy today limited quantity available. 

Auditions for actresses for Cavanaugh's Up the Down Staircase will be held 1/29 andl/30 from 7-9 pm in 127 Nieuwland. 
ius! when you thought it was 
safe to dance 
THEYRE BACK 
!hats right 

Ballroom Dance Club invttes you to have more fun than a human being is allowed to have Join us at the fencing gym, JACC 
Jan 29 7pm 
Sesquicentennial Year Celebra!ton 
Application for Student Executive Committee 
Due Fnday, January 26, 4:00 
Membership: Junior -Co-chair Soph. -Co-chair, plus 3 Junior Reps. 3 Soph. Reps. 3 Frosh Reps. 

Pick up your application today and complete it by Friday' 
Happy 15th Birthday Bridgets! Come help us bring in the new semester by celebrating this "SPECIAL" week at Bridgets. 
EVERY SATURDAY, YOU CAN HELP THE ME NT ALLY CHALLENGED OF SOUTH BEND. DO YOU CARE? CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS ACTIVITY NIGHT. JAN 25 
POVERTY. INJUSTICE. WAR, HUNGER. ILLITERACY, PREDJUOICE AND NEED. 
IF YOU CARE, COME TO THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS ACTIVITY NIGHT TONIGHT AND DO SOMETHING ABOUT THESE ISSUES! 
SUMMER JOBS 
::OUNSELORS · Boys Camp. W. Mass. I Girts Camp, Maine Top Salary, Rm!Bdllaundry, Travel Allowance. Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activities: Archery, Arts & Crafts. Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, Cheerleading, Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Golf, 3u~ar. Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback, Karate. lacrosse. Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Scuba, Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: Camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5983. Women call or write: Camp Vega, P.O. Box tnt, Duxbury, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. 
***** 


.*************************************************** 
Ltlff# :JUHVfl SJ.llf:J lfV:J l,Suousan() *
* 
* 

·w·d S~:g N3d0 SHOOO * ~ wnn:t011anv NllH~nv1.o ·w·d oo=L * ~ &'i:' ~ AHVnl:183:1 Sl 3nA31:J NtfN33>1 3H.L ~ 
~ NOSH3d H3d s·a·/ ~ :10 WflW/Xtfllfl tf Hl/M ~ ~ ·a·/ H3d 13>1:111 t 03M011tf S/ NOSH3d H:Jtf3 ~ 
~ ----------------~ ~ I::IOli::IVd I::IV~~VH ·w·d oo:s ~ * ~~JL~~(g](fj)JL~ ~[YM~ * 
~ (o ~ 31v~> 3:>1.:1.:10 13>1:>11 :>:>vr ·w·d oo: & ~ 
* ~~JL~~(Q](fj)JL~ (Q]~ * 
~ =3::>V1d ~ 3WI.l ~ 
* * 
* * 
~ 066~ '9<: AI::IVnNVr 'AVOII::I.:I ~ ~ =3.1VC ~ 
* ~ 
a NOI.Ln8U:I.LSIO .L3>10.1.L · ~ 
* *
* * 
* *
* ' *
* *
* * 
* * 
* *
* * 
* * 
* *
* *
* * 
* * 
* * 
* *
* * 
* * 
* *
* *
* * 
* * ** 
* ~ 
* * 
* * 
** * * 
* * 
* * ** ~ * 
* * 
** * * 
* * 
* **~ 
~.**********************************************~ 
~ ~ e6ed JaNesqo etu 066 ~ 'Sc Arenuer 'AepsJmu 
---------------·-------­
-----------~---~ -­
\ Thursday, January 25, 1990
page 12 The Observer

·,~~·'!' 
' 1
i 



AP Photo 

Denver Bronco quarterback John Elway has been taking some heat from four-time Super Bowl champion 
Terry Bradshaw as of late and has decided to return some. He believes Bradshaw is jealous of his lucrative 
contract and has refuted Bradshaw's criticism of him as a 'baby' who can't bring home a Super Bowl ring. 
Lott's hard hits earn him respect 
NEW OHLEANS (AP) -When Honnie Lott yells, the 49nrs lis­ten. When l.ott plays, other safeties watch. 
But mostly, when l.ott hits, receivers grimace. 
"lie should put together a highlight film of his greatest hits so people realize all the awesonw hits he's put on pno­ple," said Denver safety Dennis Smith, l.ott's close friend, who calls him "the Michael Jordan of defensive backs." 
A ynar ago, headlines during Super Bowl wm~k referred to him as the "aging l.ott." This season. tlwre's been a lot of talk about the "old man," who turns 31 in May. 
But despite missing five ganws with a right ankle sprain, l.ott has shown more than ever in the postseason that he remains the standard against which other safeties ­and team leaders -must be measured. 
His recent play even -inspired San Francisco coach George Seifert to invent a word. 
"Honnie l.ott is playing with even more quickness than I've 
Dayton 
continued from page 16 
"We plan on using the same 

type of ganw plan." said 
McGraw. "We might add a little 
more man-to-man pressure and 
we'll try to control the tempo of 
the game." 
Hobinson added that she 

hoped the Irish would continue 
their stellar performance 
seen," Seifert said. "lie seems to have had a 'fresh' is the way I might describe it -a fresh in his body." 
There will be a lot of Lott fans on the Broncos sideline Sunday in the Supnrdome. 
Smith, who room11d with him at Southern Cal. ealls himself "the poor man's Honnie Lott." Bookie free safety Steve Atwater idoliznd him so much in college that he had his pic­ture taken with him. And defen­sive coordinator Wade Phillips will seek out Lott immediately after the game to shake his hand, win or lose. 
"I have a great deal of admi­ration for him." Phillips said. "It's just niee to be around great players like that." 
Lott, according to Seifert, scums more committed than ever this season. The prime mo­tivating foree has been the 49ers' chance to repeat as Super Bowl champions. 
But what separates Lott from his peers is that he's never fully satisfied -not with his three 
Super Bowl rings, not with a 16-2 record, not with his repu­
against the 6-6 Lady Musketeers. She explained that Notre Dame would particularly have to stop junior guard Kim Blanton, an excellent outside shooter who is averaging 14.3 points per game. 
"The team's real positive after the Dayton game," said Hobinson of the injury-plagued Irish. "I hope it will carry over to our game against Xavier." 


tation for hard hits. Even his memory of his greatest hit -a fullspeed bullseye on Atlanta's William Andrews on a screen pass in 1982 -carries that moral. 

"I was playing cornerback and I had at least a 15-yard head start on him," Lott re­called Wednesday. "lie didn't see me coming. I hit him and slid off of him, and lw ran an­
other 20 yards. 

"I swear to God, it was the : best hit I ever had on a person. It's a eonstant reminder that on your best hit you can still get beat." 
l.ott hasn't been beaten much I lately. The 49ers' secondary / hasn't given up a touchdown pass in the last four games, and its commander has been especially in the playoffs. 
Cornerback Don Griffin, a fourth-year standout, got used to Lott hollering at him long ago. Now, he laughs. 
"It's great to have a guy like that on your side. He sees breakdowns very well, and he 
can do so many things," Griffin said. 

Elway fights back after Bradshaw's criticisms 
OHI.EANS (APJ -Denver quar­terback John Elway, blisten~d by Hall of Fanwr Terry Bradshaw as being too sort. fired back Wednesday. 
Elway said Bradshaw had been critical of him throughout his career and that the ox­Pittsburgh quartPrback was jealous because of Elway's high salary. 
"lip can stick it in his ear," Elway said. 
Asked to comparn Hlway and San Francisco quarterbark Joe Montana. opponents in Sunday's Super Bowl, Bradshaw was partieularly critical of the Bronco passer. 
"The first thing I think of is Jon's got three Super Bowl rings," Bradshaw said. "John Elway is more eoneenwd about promoting himself than winning Super Bowls. lie's been babied. lie hasn't won any championships and that's the bottom line." 
Elway admitted that he is troubled by his 0-for-2 Sptler Bowl record. "To be the quar­terback I want to b1~ in my ea­rner. I've got to win this game," he said. 
Bradshaw won it four times. Montana is going for his fourth. 
From the time he played at Stanford, football people have rhapsodized over Elway's arm. !lis 98-yard drive to the win­ning touchdown for the 1986 AFC championship convinePd a lot of people but Bradshaw n~­mained unimpressed. 
''A lot of guys with gn~at arms have played this game." 
he said. "To be great, you've got to play well over the long hau I. Orw great game doesn't cut it for nw." 
Elway rPcognizns that tlw Super Bowl failun~s rPpn~sl'rlt a gap in his earPnr. "Not too many guys dassifil'd as gn•at quarterbacks haven't won tlw championship," hn said. 
Bradshaw said, "I think things bother John morl' than tlwy bother .Joe. lie's got to w·t a little tougher nmotionally, a little touglwr nwntally." 
Th1~n Bradshaw rnferrml to Elway's salary. 
"lie's making $2 million a year," Bradshaw said. "llnll, things don't hotlwr you wlwn you making $2 million a year. Wait until you get out and haw to get a job. It will botlwr you then. You haVP to g~•t touglwr. 
"John's problem is he's been babied -you know, babiPd by the city until this year and ba­bied by the eoaeh a little bit. It's just too easy. And you know what I went through in Pittsburgh. Then~·s nothing worse than just gBtting ham­mered. You fight that stuff. I 
think  .John's  got  to  get  
tougher."  
Bronco  coach  Dan  Hneves  

bristlPd at Bradshaw's criticism of his quarterback. "Whem did he say that'?" He1wes asked. 
Told it was at a beer com­pany's promotional news eon­ference. Heevl's snapp1~d. "I think hn may have had a fpw too many." 


is currently accepting applications for tpe following paid positions: 
Typists 
For information, please contact Erin O'Neill at 239-5303 or 283-4215 
Attention Music Majors, Communication Majors, Anyone Interested! 
WSND-fm 
is looking for people interested in being announcers for our classical music station. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! Stop by the information desk in LaFortune and fill out a general application by Monday, Jan. 29 . 

-~ --~--~-­

Thursday, January 25, 1990 The Observer 
Magic, Lakers triumph over Pacers 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Magic Johnson scored 26 of his 32 points in the second half and Pat Riley clinched his eighth All­Star coaching berth with his 500th victory Wednesday night, 120-111 over the Indiana Pacers. 
Riley became the 14th coach in NBA history to win 500 games, and he did it in faster than any other coach -in 684 games. DoJl Nelson of Golden 
-'State achieved his SOOth win in 817 games. Riley will coach the West for the eighth time in nine years when it meets the East in the All-Star Game on Feb. 11 at Miami. Indiana shot over 60 percent from the field for three quar­ters and rallied from a nine­point deficit to take an 89-88 lead after three periods on a follow shot at the buzzer by Reggie Miller, who led the Pacers with 27. points. The Lakers scored the first six points of the final period to take the lead for good although the Pacers cut the deficit to 106-105 with 3:57 remaining. A 3-pointer by Byron Scott and Johnson's two free throws and 3-pointer made it 114-105 with 1 :52 left. 
Celtics 116, Heat 95 
Robert Parish and Kevin McHale scored nine points each in the decisive second period as Boston rolled to victory over Miami. 
The Heat took a 27-26 lead early in the second quarter, but then was outscored 34-18 as the Celtics charged to a 60-45 halftime advantage. 
Parish scored 23 points and Larry Bird 20 as the Celtics won for the fourth time in five starts. 
76ers 125, Magic 103 Charles Barkley had 27 points and 16 rebounds as Philadelphia overwhelmed Orlando for its sixth consecu­tive victory. 
Otis Smith had 33 points and 16 rebounds, both career highs, for Orlando, which led 8-7 be­fore Philadelphia scored 13 straight points to start a 25-8 run that gave the 76ers a 32-16 lead with 4:14 left in the first quarter. 
A 16-4 run midway through the second period gave Philadelphia its biggest lead of the half, 61-34. The 76ers, who lost 116-103 at Orlando on Nov. 18, took its biggest lead of the game, 77-44, in the third quarter. 
Hawks 103, Cavaliers 86 
John Long helped Atlanta open a 19~point lead by scoring 10 of his 19 points in the first period, and the Hawks coasted to a 103-86 victory over Cleveland, extending the Cavaliers' losing streak to five games. 
The Hawks, winning their second straight after a six­game losing streak, never trailed after building a 6-0 lead on two baskets by Long and another by Alexander Volkov, who scored eight points as the Hawks built a 31-12 lead at the end of the first quarter. 
The Cavs, who got 20 points from Mark Price, got no closer than 10 after the first seven minutes. 
Spurs 106, Clippers 98 
Terry Cummings scored 31 points and David Robinson added 24, leading San Antonio to a record-tying 17th consecu­tive homecourt victory. 
The Spurs, who also won 17 straight at HemisFair Arena during the 1980-81 season, are now 27-11, six more victories than all of last season. They also climbed back into a tie with Utah for the Midwest Division lead. 

The Cleveland Cavaliers' Craig Ehlo couldn't help his team get passed the Atlanta Hawks, as the Cavs' fell 103-86. In other NBA action, the Milwaukee Bucks downed the Seattle Supersonics 119-112 and the Sacramento Kings beat the Golden State Warriors 129-99. 
Georgia tops Tigers 94-92 in OT 
BATON ROUGE, La. {AP) tion and missed a pair of 3-Mann 3-poipter with 4:14 -Shaun Golden's steal set point attempts with 20 sec­left in the half and was up Marshall Wilson's three­onds left in overtime. down 35-27 at halftime. point play with 44 seconds left in overtime and Michigan State 75, No. Duke 85, N.C State 82 Georgia took advantage of 12 Indiana 57 Phil Henderson scored 25 No. 16 LSU's poor foul Kirk Manns, playing his points and No. 8 Duke shooting to win 94-92 last game for Michigan made its first three shots in Wednesday night despite 45 State in his home state. overtime Wednesday night, points by Chris Jackson. scored 25 points as holding off North Carolina 
Georgia sent the game Michigan State beat No. 12 State 85-82 in the Atlantic into overtime tied at 79 Indiana 75-57 Wednesday Coast Conference game. when Rod Cole made three night and become the win­Duke, the nation's sec­foul shots with four sec­ningest visiting team ever mld-best free throw shoot­onds left. Cole was fouled at Assembly Hall. ing team, missed two foul on a 3-point attempt that The Spartans (15-3 and shots in the final 30 sec­missed and, under 4-1) overcame an 8-0 onds. But North Carolina Southeastern Conference deficit by scoring eight State's Chris· Corchiani rules, was awarded three straight points as part of a missed two 3-pointers ­free throws. 29-11 spurt that put them the last one at the buzzer 
Jackson missed a 48-foot ahead to stay. Indiana (13-that would have forced an­heave at the end of regula-3, 3-3) trailed 29-19 after a other overtime. 
"Yo Yo Get Funky.. this week at 
9:30 pm Thursday 10:OOpm Friday 
Musician St. Paul & the GENE COTTON Martyrs 
with guest 5:00 Shadow 
First 100 people through the door get free yo-yo's! 
3~~~~ncs~wQ~ww ~@] o t?~~u 

Calcavecchia's chances improve in Phoenix Open 
SCOTTSDALE,. Ariz. (AP) -have a good tournament," Mark Calcavecchia's short list Calavecchia said before a final of probable challengers for his practice round for the title he Phoenix Open title suddenly be­won by seven strokes last year. came a little shorter "He's been playing well for a Wednesday. couple of weeks. 
U.S. Open title-holder Curtis "Fred Couples is playing well. Strange, en route from He's driving it 300 yards and Australia, became ill on the straight. I definitely think it's flight, withdrew from the tour­going to be a long hitter that nament, changed planes and wins it. Paul Azinger has won went on home to Williamsburg, here. He plays well here. Va. "Payne Stewart (the PGA 
With Strange among the champion) could be there. I missing, Calcavecchia consid­don't know how tired he may be ered the men most likely to con­from Australia, but he could tend in the tournament that be­play well here," Azinger said, gins Thursday on the TPC at paused, and then added: Scottsdale. "And I'd like to think I'm in 
''I'd look for Steve Jones to that group, too." 
Calcavecchia, however, faces a problem not encountered by the majority of the 144-man field. 
''I'm playing at home," said Calcavecchia. "That makes it a busy week, but a fun week. My wife's mother is here. The grandparents are here. The first priority is to get tickets for everybody. 
"But w~1en you put it in the ground on the first tee, you should be able to put total con­centration on playing the golf course." 
~~O~®IT~Q~®w 
~~lP~~[ffil})~IT TicmJTI ®cs11®lb~IT 1cv;V1
Q 

Application for Student Executive Committee Due Friday. January 26th 1990 by 4:00pm to Studcznt Government Sczcrcztary-Barb Znd Floor LaFortuncz MEMBERSHIP Junior -Co-chair Sophomore -Co-chair 
3 Junior Rczps 3 Sophomore Reps 3 Frosh Reps 
-~------~--­
~p=ag~e~14~--------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~s~e~~~e~r--------------------------------~T~h~u~rs~d~a~y,January25, 1990 

im teams clob r vis1t1ng I 
Men's squad now 8-1 while the women improve to 6-4 

By JANICE ARCHER Sports Writer 
The Notre Damn men's 
and wompn's swimming 
teams had easy wins over 
tlw UniVI'rsity of Illinois­
Chicago Wednesday, 
providing lhPm with an 
opportunity to stay fresh 
bl'forl' this w1111kend's 
int1~ns!' nwPts against rival 
St. Bonaventure and 
WPstPrn Ontario. 
"ll was a ndaxed, comfortable m1wt that allowt>d us to gnt polished bnforP thesP upcoming mnHs." said Irish head coach Tim WPlsh. "It was a confidence building win." 
In thP sixth meeting between thn two tnams. the nwn overpowered their opporwnts 135-79. with victories in eight events. The men raised their snason record to 8-1 and the series mcord against UIC to 6-0. 
Among the eight first place finishes, Ed Veome dominated the diving events. taking both thH three-and onn-nwter contests. Senior captain Torn Penn won the 

Digger 
continued from page 16 
ganw road swing. 
''I'm glad to be back home," 

Phelps said. "There are not 
many teams who have to play 
thrnn wneks on the road. I 
thought the tnam played with a 
lot of eonfidtmce tonight." 
Added co-captain .Iamere Jackson. "We just fell like we needed everyone to go out and play to his potential. We have listened to a lot of criticism and we take it as an insult. We're just going to go out and play our game. The bottom line is the guys on the floor have to play to their potential." 
One player who performed to 

his potential was senior Scott 
Paddock. He tied two career­

highs with 13 points and 12 
rebounds and was a force off 
the Irish bench. Paddock had 
two dunks and one blocked 

Hoops 
continued from page 16 
win on the road. I guess that's better than being a football team in Minnesota, where it seems that players spend most of their time collecting illegal payments or DUis. 
•Could 
somebody please send Purdue on the road against Michigan, so we can finally realize that the Boilers aren't the best team in their conference? 

•Dale 
Brown just can't lind a way to make things easy. After years of making the tournament by the points of their claws, the LSU Tigers finally have enough talnnt to become a Top Five team. But they still lose to teams that have no business being on the noor with them. 


flow Georgia and Mississippi Statn can beat a team with Chris Jackson. Shaquille O'Neal and Larry Hoberts is beyond me. 
•The way Penn State has been improving the last two years in the Atlantic 10, the Nittany Lions just might not embarrass 

Ed Veome 
50-yard freestyle with a tim, of 22.10 and senior Bill Jackoboice captured the 100-yard freestyle in 48.09. 
"We're on a roll right now, and we're trying to keep it going through the weekend," said senior Dave Thoman, a member of the winning 200­yard medley relay team. Thoman. John Godfrey, Ed Broderick. and Jackoboice took the event with a time of 1:40.00. 
The women's team upped their season record to 6-4 
shot in turning in his best pPrformance of the seasou. 
Five other Notre Damn players hit double figures. LaPhonso Ellis led the team with 15 points followed by Elmer Bnnnett with 13, Daimon Sweet and Joe Fredrick with 11 and Keith Hobinson with 10. 
It was a pleasant breakthrough for Bennett. who had scored just 15 points in thn last five games combined. Against the Shockers, he hit five-of-nine field goals and two­of-two free throws. 
"For the last few games on the road I wasn't a factor," Bennett said. "Tonight I decided I had to come out and look for my shot." 
John Cooper led the Shockers with a game-high 22 points and was joined in double figures by Gayton Nickerson with 18 and Lance Kroll with 10. 
The Shockers jumped to a 7-3 advantage early in the game, with an impressive win over UIC, by the score of 128­103. 
Frnshman sPnsation Tanya Williams helpnd lead tho Irish with two victoriPs, in the 1650-yard frenstyle 
(17:41.48) and the 200-yard individual mndlt~y (2:11.41). Jenny Kipp, who qualified for the Zone Diving Meet last weeknnd. won the thren­meter and one-metnr diving nvents with point scorns of 224.85 and 230.55. 
In other first place finishes, Amy Tri was victorious in the 200-yard breaststroke and Shana Stephens, Tracie O'Connell. Christine Van Patten and Katherine Andrew combined to take the 200-yard medley relay. 
"This meet was .good for us, because it let us experiment in certain events, and gavn experience for championship meets," Welsh said. "It was a team preparation meet, getting us ready for three intensn wnekends." 

but the Irish ran off 13 straight points for a 16-7 lead. They increased that margin to 38-24 at the half. 
Notre Dame kept the momentum in the second half, building the lead to 62-36 with 
11:53 rernarnrng. That advantage was 73-50 with 6:44 to play when Wichita State made a run. 
The Shockers pulled to 85-75. but Tim Crawford hit two frne throws for Notre Dame with 
1:01 left to seal the victory. 

NOTES -Phelps downplayed his 400th victory. but he joined an elite crowd. Coming into this season, just 19 active coaches had won 400 games. Phelps picked up his victories in 19 years at Notre Dame (37 4-170) and one year at Fordham (26­3). His biggest win? Over DePaul in the 1978 NCAA Regional. That 84-64 win lifted the Irish into the Final Four, Notre Dame's only appearance. 
Paddock 

continued from page 16 
State center Lance Kroll underrwath and snt Notre Dame's transition game in mo­tion with sevnral d11fensivn boards: lin also blockl'd his first shot of tlw s11ason. 
"The blork canw aftPr I missed my first shot," said tlw 6-<J snnior. "If you can't gPt things going on of'fpnsn. you ran always do sonwthing on tlw def1msiw Pnd." 
l'lwlps us11d Paddock's intl'nsl' play as an Pxampln of thn way he expPI'.tl'd tlw rest of tlw team to pPrform. 
"I told tlw tPam l'addork play11d to his potPntial tonight. and then~·s no Pxl·use for IWPry­onn elsP not to do tlw sanw thing." said tlw Irish coarh. 
"Thn best thing about tlw whole night was Scott Paddock coming off thP bnnch and getting double doublns," said Frndriek. "We just needed "positives", and that was a big one." 
Since his playing timn was eonsidnrably cut down narlinr this season. Paddock has strug­gled in occasional stints off tlw bench. I lis pNformanee against thl' Shockers was truly a eonli­denen-buildN. 
"This snason has be1m up and down for me," said Paddock. "This game gave me a lot more confidence. I never gave up. though. I kept plugging away and playing hard. hoping the coadws would notie11. That fi­nally canw tonight." 
ElnH'r Benrwtt , Daimon SwnPl and K1win I:IIPry also rontributnd ofT tlw lwnch. BPmwtt scon•d 13 points. SwPPt pourPd in II, and I·:IIPry addPd livP points and liw rnbounds. 
"Tlw st;~rtPrs armd going t.q_ bP tlwrP I'VPry night out." said Paddock. "WI' nn11d to clPvPiop dPpth through playing tinw. and nvnryorw contributPd tonight." 
I>Ppth is sonwthing tlw Irish will nnnd as tlwy bngin what PlwIps r.alls tlw i r "third snason". whnrn tlwy rPturn to tlw form tlwy nxhibitnd in post­SPason tournanwnt ganws last sPason against Vandf'l"hilt and GPorgPtown. 
ThP rnsPrVPS causPd l'lwlps somP eonr.nrn in lhP final min~ utes of thP r.ontnst whPn thPy strugglnd against Wichita Staw's pr11ssurn dPf11nsP. Tlw starwrs wnre reinsPrtnd to gPt tlw ball past halfrourt and thl'n PxitPd wlwn Knith Bobinson was foul11d with I :40 n•nwining. 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Off-campus students intPrested in playing on a racquet­ball team should call 271-8309. 
Off-campus hockey has a game at 1<>:30 p.m. Thursday. Call 271-8309 for more information. 
Racquetb.a~l Clu~ members wanting a t-shirt should pick one up by l'rrday mght. Call x2:U4 or x2274 for more• in­formation. 
~artia.l Arts Club will practice for beginners at 6:30 p.m. tonrght rn 219 Rockne Gym and at 6:30 p.m. Friday for 
returning members.  
Rowing ~lub will meet at 7:30p.m. tofor those rnterested in rowing this checkbooks for dues and sweat orders.  night in 104 semester.  'Shag Bring  

Hapkido Club will meet at 8 p.m. tonight in 219 Hockne Gym. Call x3597 for more information. 
Men's volleyball team will host Wilfred Laurier at 7:30 p..m. Saturday.and Michigan State at 2 p.m. Sunday. Games wrll be played m the Joyce ACC pit and admission is free. 
Mike Schmidt was named Player of the Decade by the Sporting News on Wednesday. 
F...,....w...w...w...,....,....,....,....,....,....,....w...w~~ 
~  Western Caribbean Cruise  ~  
~  Spring Break '90  ~  
~  March 11-16  ~  
~  *********  ~  
~  ©rrM~®® U©~  ~  
~  Miami  ~  
~  Key West  ~  
~  Playa del Carmen  ~  
~  Cozumel  ~  
~  ~  
~  $699 per person includes:  ~  
~  -round trip airfare  ~  
~  -all meals aboard the ship  ~  
,._.  -live entertainment  ~  
~  -lots of shipboard activities  ~  
~  -duty-free shopping  ~  
~  **********  ~  
~  Sign up at the secretary's desk on the 2nd  ~  
~  floor of La Fortune.  ~  
~  ~  
~  Payments due in full by February 15.  ~  
~  ~  

themselves during their first few years in the Big Ten. 
I guess I have to make some mention of the Super Bowl. It wouldn't surprise me at all if 
Denver actually makes a game of this thing. It's hard to believe that the 49ers can play almost perfect football for three consecutive games. 

But the 49ers have just too much talent to let this slip away from them. In a close game, look for a late San Francisco score to seal an 11-point win. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer JMt advertising. t(~
0 Call 239-6900 ~ 



-~­

Thursday, January 25, 1990 The Observer page 15 

BILL WATTERSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON JAY HOSLER 
SPELUNKER 

GU~S? IT'S OK TO COME \JJ\! IT"5 t<\E, N\JM~ I'M \-lOME. 
Gt.E.2, 'iOU 
G\J'{5 ! E.'IDI I 
D<l-l1 G'C-.T SE~T 
TO 1\\k. !'Rit-IC\~ 
E'l£R'i DAY.' 
iO\J'R£ IM.KI~<:. ME LOOK. SAO.' 



The Notre Dame Student Players 
8:00 and 10:15 
annouce the Spring 1990 production of 
Cushing Auditorium 
THE FANTASTICKS TWINS 
$2.00 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Thursday 
4 p.m. Lecture, "The Impact of 1992 on US-EEC Relations," Jose Beneyto, Center for European Studies at Harvard University. 131 Decio Faculty Hall. Sponsor~d by the Kellogg Institute with the Committee for European Studies. 
4:15 p.m. Workshop, "Effective Interviewing," Paula Cook, Career Counselor in Career and Placement Services. Career and Placement Services Conference Room. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
6:30 
p.m. Presentation and reception by Paul Reynolds. "How to Obtain a Summer Internship" Room 124 Hayes­Healy Center. For all majors and degrees. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

6:30 
p.m. Workshop "Researching Employers" Jeff Rice, assistant director of Career and Placement Services. Career and Placement Services Conference Room. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 


7:30 p.m. Reilly Center for Science, Technology, and Values. Undergraduate lecture series, "The Galileo Affair on Contemporary Perspective" Professor Owen Gingerich, Department of History of Science, Harvard University. 127 Nieuwland Science. 
8:10 p.m. Play, Noises Off produced by the St. Edward's Hall Players. Washington Hall. Admission $3 in advance and $4 at the door. 
MENUS Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Baked BBQ Pork Chops Chinese Pork Roast 

Cajun Scrod Roast Beef au jus Vegetable Casserole Cheese and Macaroni Devonshire Sandwich Deli Bar 
ACROSS 
1 Junk and punt &"The-Predicament": 
FouadAjami 
10 Fix 
13 Richly scented 
flower 14 Kind of play, in golf 16 Goodbye, to 
Galba 17 A way to wed 18 Numbers game 191nvestigate 
thoroughly 20 First line of verse 
to a solver 23 Vivid display 24 Prefix for hero 25 Rest-cure facility 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
28 Walker from Hartford, Ill. 30 Fetters 34 Rakehells 36 Bronx cheer 37 Part of a primrose 38 Second line of verse 42 Bull: Comb. form 43 McDowall role: 1968 44 Family follower 45 Mis!is*ippi has two 46 British radials 48 Tut's cousin 49 Mendacious one 51 Part of N.A. or S.A. 

CROSSWORD 
53 End of verse 60 "Born in the 
61 Metal pin 

62 Everyday 63-Buddhist 64 Weak drink 
65 Met basso-baritone 66 Last of a sequence 

67 Johnson from Benton Harbor, Mich. 
68 Like cash, at times 
DOWN 
1 Cordon­(top chef) 2 Alipterion essentials 3 Emollient 

ingredient 4 S.A. ungulate 5 Type of railway 
6 Macbeth's tragic flaw 7 Mine vein 
Allen 8"-the 
25 Orkney Islands Races," Marx 
tax

Brothers film 9 Proven<;:al goat 26 Philippine island cheese 
27Tot

10 Coffee, 29 "-,Jose!"
.
11 Affirminformally 31 Abstract 
12 Boundary 

painting style 15 Uncouth 
32 Rhinological:+;;+::,.+:;F--t 21 Noted German cavities

sculptor: 1877-1947 33 Glossy 
39 Denier is their concern 
40"-L~rdmy 

soul ... 41 Swarms 46 Actor Howard 47 "Rocky II," e.g . so-Camacho, 
former Mexican president 52--Japanese War 
54 Palmist's words 
55 Byway 
56 Quiescence 
57 Graphic beginning 
58 Actress Charlotte and family 
59"-woulda maiden blush ...": Shak. 

We are looking for: 
Actors Technical Crews: 
Any interested students, please stop by
Costumes

Musicians 
the Secretary's Desk, 2nd Floor LaFortune, 
Makeup and Props

Stage Manager 
to pick up a short interest form. 
Lighting

Business Manager 
Set construction

Ushers Forms are due in the Sub Office by Jan. 30.
Publicity 


r------------------------~------------------------------------~ -~-~­
Sports
page 16 Thursday, January 25, 1990 
Irish level Wichita State to give Phelps' his 400th victory 
Davis and Sara Liebscher all and most like! page Irish stand at 10-5 as they prepare to face Xavier tonight in Cincinnati. 
~o---piioiooiii.is---po~ts~a-.:;...:rd~to~ old at 1la~lfw~a-y~m~a~rk-o~f;,;.......;hoo_p_sea_s_o_n_ 
ND beats Shockers to get back on track 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
If the first step is the biggest and most impor­tant, then the Notre Dame men's basketball team is !waded in the right direction. 
The Irish kicked off the second half of their season with an RH-7H victory over Wichita State WednPsday night in the Joyce ACC before I 0,07 4 fans. The win improved Notre Dame's record to 9-6 and was tlw 400th career victory for Notre Dame coach Digger Phnlps. 
It was a ganw the Irish were supposed to win and 11111' that the Irish nePdf'd to win. Coming off a disappointing 3-:~ roadtrip. Notre Dame fi­nally got things to click -at least for 34 min­uti's. 
Tlw Irish dominatml for the first 34 minutes, building a 73-50 l!'ad. Tlwy suffered a letdown in which the Shockers cut the margin to 10 at H5-75 but hit key fn~e throws to get the win. 
"It was a big lift because we wern kind of down." Notre Dame freshman Monty Williams said. "We knew w!' had the talent, and we just executed w~ry well tonight." 
Said co-captain Joe Fredrick, "Every win now is big. That's how we look at it. We had total confidnnce we wer11 going to put it together. The support we had at the game tonight was just gn1at." 
For the Irish, it was nice just to be playing in the Joyce ACC. They ran their home record to 6­0 with ganws set against Miami (Fla.) Saturday and Dayton next Tuesday b11fore another three-
see DIGGER I page 14 
Women's basketball downs Flyers 
Robinson, Davis keep the Irish undefeated in the MCC 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Sports Writer 
Some nights, ev11rything clicks. 
Thl' ml'mbers on the Notn~ Dame wonwn's baskntball team understood that feeling Tuesday night as thP Irish unitnd for an H5-60 trouncing of the Dayton Flyers. 
Irish head eoaeh Muffet McGraw and guard Karen Hobinson noted two key factors that allowed the Irish to dominate the 6-9 Flyers. 
McGraw praised her team's excellent shooting and intensity throughout the blowout, while Hobinson emphasized the bal­ance of the Irish attack. 
"Everyone contributed," said Robinson, who with teammate Krissi Davis led Notre Dame's scoring with 21 points. 
The junior trio of Robinson, 
llalfway through a college basketball season where apparently nobody wants to reside in the Top 10, here are a few observations. 
•It's about time that people finally start mentioning the Big Eight in the same sentence with the Big Ten, ACC and Big East. With Missouri, Kansas Steve Megargee and Oklahoma, the Big Eight 

has thrnP teams with legit-Associate Sports Editor imate Final Four potential. 
The Big Eight glory might not last long. but for now it's on a par with the three elite conferences. 
•Is 
thnre a better unknown player than Oregon State's Gary Payton? A point guard who can score with the game's best, Payton just may lead the Heavers to a Pac-10 championship. 

•The 
nation's best unknown team just might be New Mexico State, which had lost only one game en­tering the week and already has defeated Big West rival Nevada-Las Vegas. 


• Paul Westhead must breed scorers at Loyola had outstanding games to pace the Irish. Davis and Liebscher nach had eight rebounds while Liebscher directed the Notre Dame offense with 11 assists. 
EveryonP scored for the Irish, while four members finished in double figures. Liebscher con­tributed 10 points while Lisa Kuhns had 11. including Notre Dame's only three-pointer. Kuhns continues to lead the NCAA in that category. 
While commending the overall play of the team, McGraw felt that accurate shooting keyed the Irish win. 
"We had good shot selection and made the shots," said McGraw of the 10-5 Irish. "It was excellent execution, the besneam shooting we've had." 
Notre Dame converted 56 percent of their field goals. The Irish were ranked 16th nation­ally in that category last week 

increased::...,:t::,:h~a.:;.t,..._.---s'!_ee DAYTON 1 12 
The Observer I Scott McCann 
LaPhonso Ellis' 15 points led the Notre Dame men's basketball team to a 88-78 win over visiting Wichita State Wednesday night. The win gave Irish head coach Digger Phelps his 400th career victory. 
Marymount. The Lions lose Hank Gathers, last year's leading national scorer and rebounder, to an injury, and they don't miss a beat. Bo Kimble simply steps in and jumps to the top of the national rank­ings in scoring. 
Loyola coach Paul Westhead just breeds scorers. 
•While Loyola Marymount and Oklahoma are the undisputed kings of offense, nobody may play better defense than Alabama. Over the winter holidays, the Crimson Tide held patsy Baptist College to six points in a half. In a game with Southeastern Conference rival Georgia, the Tide leads 21-9 after about 16 minutes. 
Then, the day after LSU steamrolls Notre Dame, the Tide tame the Tigers 70-55 while holding Chris Jackson to 11 points. That Alabama win came at home in the "Plaid Palace," so-called in honor of Tide coach Wimp Sanderson's tastes in fashion. The Tide loses in the Palace about as often as Bill Curry beats Auburn. 
•I'm starting to get the feeling that Bobby Cremins could put Dennis Scott, Brian Oliver and Kenny Anderson on the court by themselves, and Georgia Tech still could field a tournament team playing ev­erybody 3-on-5. It seems like those three guys are standing with their perfor­mance against the Flyers. 
Notre Dame's consistency ex­tended to the free throw line. The Irish made 12 of 16 from the charity stripe while Davis and Liebscher were perfect. 
McGraw also noted that the Irish were hot from the begin­ning against the Flyers. 
"We scored on our first eight possessions and I think we led 17-4 at one point," McGraw commented. "Fortunately, our intensity never let up." 
McGraw added that Notre Dame had been having prob­!ems maintaining intensity when they were winning, yet the level of concentration never fell Tuesday night. The Irish hope to continue that type of play tonight when the travel to Cincinnati to face another MCC 
rival, Xavier. Freshman guard Coquese Washington helped the Notre Dame women's basketball team r;:lobber MCC opponent Dayton, 85-60. The 
Tech's only players anyhow. 
•What 
in the name of Flutie is wrong with the Boston College athletic department. Hemember just about four or five years ago, when BC football regu­larly fielded bowl teams and the hoops squad con­sistently reached the Sweet 16'? Now both programs have gone to hell in handbasket at about the same time. 

•You 
have to feel pity for Don DeVoe, who never should have gotten fired at Tennessee last ynar. Now he gets the job at Florida and inherits a bunch of undisciplined hacks only Lawrence FundPrburkP could admire. Livingston Chatman quits, then Dwayne Schintizius earns himself a suspension for participating in another fight (reports indicate he did not bring a tennis racket along this time). 


Nonetheless. don't be surprised if the· Orlando Magic pull Schintzius out of the hat in the NBA draft. With Dave Corzine injured, the only center in Orlando is named EPCOT. 
•I guess if you're in the statn of Minnesota, home is the best place to be. First the Twins and now the Gophers -they do no wrong at home and can't buy a 
see HOOPS I page 14 

Paddock plays to potential off bench 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Sports Writer 

Following Notre Dam11's HH-7H honw victory over Wichita Stat11 WPdrwsday night. Coach 
• Digger Plwlps emphasized tlw importanrP of playing with confidmlrP. Guard Joe Frmlrirk nwntiorwd tlw tPam's nPPd for "positives" in light of rncPnt lossPs to Creighton. LaSallP and LSU. They then singiPd out l'PntPr Scott Paddock for providing both in a ganu• which lu•lpl'd distance mPnwriPs of thos1~ disappointing Irish setbacks. Paddoek scored I:{ points and had 12 rebounds. tying ran•pr highs, during an in­spirnd 22 minutns of play. "I thought tlw t11am pl<tyPd with a lot of conlideneP," said Plwlps. "My goal this ganw was to givn tlw bPneh morn playing tim!', and 1 was very happy with Paddock's pPrformancP. "lie is probably tlw playl'r with tlw )Past amount of talnnt who gets tlw most out of tlw game. lin has bnnn vPry patiPnt in coming off the bench and playing his roln." Paddock nl11etrifiml tlw crowd of l<l,07 4 with two spnctacular dunks. tlw first punctuating a f11rocious offpnsive rnbound with 6:14 rPnHLining in the first half. Daimon Swnl't s1~t up tlw sl'cond slam with a nicP dish undPnwath. staking tht• Irish to a 75-54 s1~eond-half lnad with less than six minutes remaining in tlw eontPst. 
Defensively, Paddock outmusclnd Wichita 
see PADDOCK I page 14 



