
VOL. XXIII NO. 123 WEDNESDAY . April 11, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Group led by Abu Nidal frees three hostages 
1'/\IUS (/\1'1 -Tlw Libyan­ba(' knd I' a Ins tin ian group lwadnd by /\bu Nidal freed a t:rpnrh woman, a Belgian man and tlwir young daughter Tuesday aftnr holding tlwm for nearly two and a half years. 
Tlw three arrived at a mili­tary airport outsid(~ Paris late Tuesday after a five-hour flight from Beirut, wlwre they had been dropped off at the French l·:mbassy by masked gunmen who arrived in ears with drawn curtains. 
.Jarqul'lirw Valente, 32, Fer­nand lloutekins, 4:J, and their 2-ynar-old daughter Sophie­Libcrto, born in captivity, wore nwl by jubilant rnlatives and French oflkials. but made no public statnnumts. Tlwy were taken to a military hospital to spend tlwir first night in free­dom after HH2 days in captivity. 
/\bu Nidal's group announced on Nov. H. I<JS7, it had seized tiiP hostages from tlw French yacht Sileo in the 
Family finally freed 
Jacqueline Valente from France 
Bush reacts/ page 6 

Mediterranean off the Gaza Strip. It accused them of collaborating with Israel's Mossad intelligence agency. Friends said the group was on a holiday cruise. 
The French government thanked Libyan leader Col. Moamrnar Gadali for his role in the release and said relations with Libya would improve. Gadali last week called for the release of hostages as a hu­manitarian gesture. 
The hostages, released by the Fatah-Hevolutionary Council on Tuesday morning to French Embassy officials, used an ex­ecutive jet in Beirut provided by the French government to fly to Villacoublay near Paris. Valente I was the first to disembark, followed by lloutekins, holding their daughtP-r in his arms. 
Tho Fatah-Revolutionary Council has been blamed for scores of terrorist acts, includ­
\ ' 

AP File Photo 
was freed early Tuesday with her 
Belgian husband Fernand Houtekins and their daughter Sophie-Liberte in Beirut by latah-CR. They were detained since Nov. 8. 1987. 
Gorbachev backs off hard line after blasting Lithuania 
MOSCOW (/\1'1 -Orw day aftPr issuing a harsh new warning to l.i th uan ian sppa­ratists. SoviPI l'rPsidPnt Mikhail (;orbadwv backPd otT tlw tough linP Ttwsday by dPdarin~ lw doPS not y~>t SPP a IHWd to illl­(lOSP prPsid(•nt ial rul(•. 
l.il.huanian l'n•sidnnt Vytautas l.andslwrgis. rnsponding to t.hn sPvnrP torH' of Monday's dPrlaration by thn Krnmlin. SPill ll tnlngram to (;orbachnv saying lw fnarPd that "ultra­rightist impPrial fon~(~S arn romtwlling you to takP a wrong stPp: to continu1• tlw wrongs of tlw I1J40s in Uw Baltics." 
"In the namn of pnace. justien and eorcord on nartl1, do not do this ' he wrotn. 
lin , as rnfnrring to the Soviet occur 1tion and forcnd annexa­tion of thn thrnn Baltic re­publics -Lithuania, Estonia, and Latvia-in 1940. 
Since March 11, when 
Lithuania dnclared its indnpen­dnncn rnstorml, thn Kremlin has rnpnatndly altnrnatnd between thrPatPning and conciliatory tonns. On snvnral o(·.casions, thrnatPning military movnmnnts wPrn follownd by kindnr words. 
Spnaking Tunsday at a Young Communist l.nagun congress in Moscow, .Gorbaclwv said prnsi­dnntial rule would bn usnd only as an nxtrnmn nwasure during a eivil conflict, the Tass news agnney said. lin said Soviet lnadnrs an1 still trying to per­suadn Lithuanians to reseind tlwir declaration of indepen­dmlcn. 
Pn1sidential rule could include martial law and dissolving Lithuania's parliament. It was elected in March and is Lithua­nia's first freely elected parlia­ment in 50 years. 
llowever, in a meeting Tues-
see LITHUANIA/ page 7 
ing the December 1985 attacks on Homo and Vienna airports that killed more than 20 people. Because the hostages wore believed to have been held in Libya, the case is considered unrelated to the 18 Westerners, including eight Americans, held in Lebanon by pro-Iranian Shi­
ite Moslem factions. 
However, Fatah spokesman Walid Khaled denied assertions that the hostages had been held in Libya. Speaking at a news conference in Beirut, he said the hostages had been kept in Lebanon. 
The State Department wel­comed the release and called for freeing of other captives. 
The release came a month after France returned to Libya three French-made Mirage jet fighters that had been in France for repairs since 1986. The return of the planes was blocked by an embargo im­posed when Libya and France baeked opposing sides during the civil war in Chad. 
In December. Libya, pressing for delivery of the aircraft, closed its ports to French ships. 
Gadali said Tuesday that Abu Nidal's group was "distancing" itself from its terrorist reputa­tion by releasing the hostages, Libya's official news agency JANA reported. 

Last week, Gadafi urged the release of hostages in the Mid­dle East as a gesture for Ra­madan, the Islamic holy month. He singled out Valente. 
Gadafi has supported Abu Nidal, who, along with some of his followers, has been con­victed of terrorist attacks abroad. The Libyan leader is believed to have allowed him to live near the Libyan capital, Tripoli. 
lloutekins said after his re­lease that four members of his family still held by the terrorist group are well. 
"They have morale. They are holding firm," he said, adding, "We expected our freedom, we knew it was coming one day. The day of our freedom has ar­rived. For those who stay be­hind, we keep honing." 
"I embrace all my family. am well, and the little one also," Valente told French re­porters. 
Only two French news organi­zations were given access to the hostages. 
The hostages refused to dis­cuss conditions of their captiv­ity or where they were held. They did not mention a second child born in captivity in 1989. 
French Ambassador Hene Ala said Valente told him the boy died recently of problems with his digestive system. 
A police spokesman said French officials "apparently had advance notice of the re­lease. /\Ia was waiting at a ce­ment outpost manned by 
see HOSTAGES/ page 5 

Panel debates racist views at ND 


By PETER AMEND 
News Writer 
Flanner Pit was packed full predominantly by ethic minority students as Yan Searcy, orga­nizer of the discussion, said the point of the meeting was to dis­cuss racism openly and that it was not to turn into a shouting match. 
The discussion was a eontin­uation of the one which had followed the movie "Do the Right Thing" in February. 
Searey introdueed a panel of students which represented many of the ethnic groups pre­sent at ND. This panel eon­sisted of Rod West, Gina Perez, Estevan Herrera, Sean O'Brien, Jill Poyadue, and Maeve O'Donovan. Two panelists did not show up. 
The panelists opened the dis­cussion by giving their personal definitions of racism and then questions from the audience were addressed. In his defini­idea that "blacks can't be racist" is racist propaganda. Many African American stu­dents retorted his statement. One student said blacks cannot be racist in America because they have no power to enact racism. 

This discussion brought up the issue on the difference be­tween prejudice and racism. There was a general consensus among the audience that every­one has prejudices, but these prejudices beeome racism only if the group of people hold power. 
Next, someone in the audi­ence asked the panel to address the subtler forms of racism. West said institutional racism is a form that definitely affects the educational opportunities of minorities. The SAT test was used as an example be­cause it is geared toward a white, middle class America. 
Many students in the audience spectives on the minorities' rn­ality. "W<J are tlw gifted 10 pereont who get into coll•Jge," said West. "We must rPnwmber the 90 percnnt who arP not SePn." 
Searcy said that whil1l it is easinr for a whitP man to re­main indifferent to tlw inlwnmt discrimination in /\nwrica. mi­norities are constantly nl­minded of their id(Jntity and it is impossible to forget their history in thP rontPxt of racism. 
Finally a comm(~nt in rPlation to SpikP Lee's movie "Do the Hight Thing" was brought up. In regard to a statement O'Brien made in a recent Ob­server editorial questioning the realism of Lee's movie, a stu­dent said, "seeing Charles Bronson play Moses is unrealis­tic to me." 
The issue of tokenism was taken up in response to 


Young Frankensteins? 
Juniors Shane Gillespie and Chris Pastega try to create a windtunnel, not a monster, as they do a lab for AE 442L in Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering on Tuesday. 
..... -~--~-----~---­
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, April 11, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Baseball not 
pastime of all 


Americans 
Baseball is back. Or so all the headlines read. The players are ready, Management is ready. The fans are ready. Yet, in the midst of all this readiness, I have only one thing to say: John O'Brien 
Bah humbug. 
Yes, that's right. Managing Editor Baseball is back and I really could care less. You see, I hate base­
ball and everything about it. Now before you brand me as an un-American, flag­burning, commie-lovin', herbal tea-drinking liberal, hear my side of the story. 
I grew up on the South Side of Chicago which gives me the horrible birth defect of being a Sox fan. I've lived my entire life lis­tening to Harry Caray slobber over his mike and his beer and get the names of all the players on THAT OTHER TEAM wrong. 
Why, you ask, didn't I just turn the game off? Because everyone seems to think that they are "cute" and "cuddly" and sooo North Side, and thus, they are broadcast 25-hours a day. Besides, did you expect me to watch the Sox get pummeled? Hah. I'd rather watch the Cubs get pummeled any­time. One time I told Ryne Sandberg he stunk and he got so mad that he hit me with his purse. But I'd better lay off them. 
My real problem with baseball stems from the fact that I have no talent at it. I played on three Little League teams that went 0-18, 1-17, and 2-16. At least we were consistent, huh? 
I played every single position on the field, including pitcher. In my pitching debut, I hit three guys with pitches, one guy twice­in the same inning. THE FIRST INNING. By the time I left, I had pitched 2/3 innings, given up eight runs, and walked many. Ac­cording to Greg Guffey, our Sports Editor, these stats are "Not Good." 
So my trauma with "America's pastime" began early. But it continued as I grew up. One thing that alarms me is the frequency with which major leaguers spit and grab their crotch, on national T.V. Don't get me wrong, fellas, I like to spit and grab as much as any red-blooded, flag-lovin', God­fearing American male should. 
I just think that these guys will be in trouble if they ever have to get a real job. Imagine, say Wade Boggs, as a lawyer. 
Boggs: Ladies and gentleman of the jury [scratch, grab, adjust]. 
Judge: Mr. Boggs, are you okay? 
Boggs: I'm okay, [spitting a brown fluid on the court recorder] just a little fallout from the whole 'sex-scandal' thing [scratch]. 
So Coach Murphy, please hold your troops back. I think it's fine that you guys love your sport so much. I have just had enough traumatic experiences with baseball to cause me eternal pain and suffering. As a peace offering, let me send over some Skoal and some Cruex and we'll call it even. Okay? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Tuesday's Staff (219)-239-7471 
News 
Sports Systems Kevaleen Ryan 
Chris Cooney Mark Sloan Paul Pearson 
Tim Quinn Janice O'Leary 
Production Greg Tice GraphicsAccent 
Andy Morrow Bradford J. Boehm Paige A. Smoron 
Barbara Bryn 
Circulation Sarah Rose Fiske 
Scoreboard Bill O'Rourke 
Scott Brutocao Matt Novak Ad Design Quinn Satepauhoodle 
VIeWpOint 
Jeanne Naylor 
Lisa Eaton Ryan Roberts 
Michelle Dall Lisa Gunsorek 
Becky Pichlek 
The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Frldav except during exam and vacation periods. The ObserVer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


WEATHER 
WEATHER 
Yesterday's high: 47 
Yesterday's low: 39 
Nation's high: 99 
(Palm Springs, Calif.) Nation's low: 4 (Cut Bank, Mont.) 
Forecast: 

Mostly cloudy and cold 
today with a 50 percent 
chance of scattered light 
snow showers. Highs in 
the middle 30s. Partly 

cloudy and much colder 
tonight. Lows in the lower 
20s. Mostly sunny and a 
little warmer Thursday. 
Highs from the lower to middle 40s. 
Pressure 
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
OF INTEREST 

A slide show on El Salvador will be presented The last day to spend the Student Activities Fee for today at 7 p.m. in the CSC. The Romero March in San Sal­all clubs is Thursday, April 12. If you need to spend vador and the current investigation into the deaths of the money after this date, you must stop by the treasurer's six Jesuits will be addressed. office on the second floor of LaFortune where special ar­
rangements can be made. 
The Charity Ball meeting has been rescheduled for tonight at 7 p.m. outside Sorin Room in LaFortune. To­The hospitality lunch at the esc tomorrow has morrow night's meeting has been cancelled. been cancelled. The next lunch will be Thursday, April19. 
The class of 1991 can pick up applications today St. Clara's Church in the inner city of Chicago for Senior Class Board at the student government secre­would like a volunteer(s) to help with a parish census due tary's office on the second floor of LaFortune. to the merger of two parishes. Room and board will be 
provided at the rectory. For further information call Sue 
Cunningham at 239-7867 or stop by the CSC.
There are additional openings for senior men in the Holy Cross Associate Volunteers Program as a result of a new house just opening. Please contact Mary Ann Roemer in the CSC at 239-7949 if you are interested. 
CAMPUS 

Cyrus Rowlett Smith, an aviation pioneer, died at Beginning this Thursday, the East Gate on age 90 on April 4. Smith was the first chief executive of Juniper Road will be in operation on a 24-hour basis. American Airlines and was a longtime friend of Father Vehicles with proper authorization will be allowed to use Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of Notre Dame. the gate as an alternate entrance to the campus in He was a former member of the College of Business addition to the Main Gate. The use of the gate on a 24­Administration, a recipient of an honorary doctor of laws hour basis will be more convenient for public safety, since degree from Notre Dame in 1968 and the donor of the both the Security and Fire Departments will have better 
C.R. Smith endowed chair in the College of Business access to the campus. It will reduce response time and Administration. improve service for a larger area of the campus. 
WORLD 

Rival gangs of prisoners fought each other with The state-owned shipyard where workers knives and sharpened iron rods in a western Venezuela founded the Solidarity labor movement in Poland will be prison on Tuesday and six inmates were killed in the transferred to private ownership by selling shares to em­three-hour fracas, the warden said. Warden Miguel Gar­ployees and the public, its manager announced Tuesday. cia said the battle was touched off "by old feuds for lead­The fate of the shipyard in the northern port of Gdansk ership in the prison." 
had been uncertain since October 1988, when Poland's then-Communist government announced plans to close it. 
INDIANA 
MARKET UPDATE

Officials at a Fort Wayne high school are 
Closings for April 10. 1990

defending their strip search of about a dozen boys in a body building class during a search for a missing watch. John Weicker, assistant to the principal, said he was within his rights to conduct 
Volume in shares 
the strip searches of some Northrop High School 
163.85 Million
students while looking for a $200 watch March 
29. "All the kids who were searched volunteered" he said. "One kid, in private, said no, and he wasn't searched." 

NYSE Index 187.63 "!} 0.28 
Some state employees will wear green­S&P Composite and-white arm bands to work Wednesday to 342.Q7 "!} 0.70 show Gov. Evan Bayh they want collective bar­Dow Jones Industrials gaining rights. The American Federation of State, 2,731.08 4:r 9.01 County and Municipal Employees mailed the arm­
Precious Metals 

bands to nearly 30,000 non-management employ­ees last Friday. The union hopes 50 percent of the Gold f-$1.00 to $3751 oz. workers will participate. The arm bands bear the 
Silverf-1.5¢ to $5.113/ oz.
message "Band Together for Collective Bargain­ing-April 11, 1990." Source: AP 
ALMANAC 

On April11: e In 1689: William III and Mary II were crowned as joint sovereigns in Britain, two months after their reign had begun as part of the "Glorious Revolution" that deposed James II. e In 1814: Napolean Bona­parte abdicated as emperor of France and was banished to the island of Elba. e In 1951 : President Truman relieved Gen. Douglas MacArthur of his command in the Far East. e In 1970: Apollo 13 blasted off on its ill-fated mission to the moon. e In 1981 : President Reagan returned to the White House , 12 days after he was wounded in an assassination attempt. 

Wednesday, April 11, 1990 The Observer 

Psychology professor mentions being, non-being in 'Last Words' 
By LIZ HOLTZ News Writer 
As part of tlw Student Gov­PrnmPnt sPriPs titlnd "Famous Last Words," profpssor DaniPI l.apslny answPrnd tlw quPstion, "II' you krww you w~>rf' going to diP tomorrow. what would you say tonight'?" at Tlwodon~·s Trwsday. 
l.apsiPy, an assistant profns­sor in tlw Psychology Dnpart­nwnt. said. "I do not bnlinw it is morbid to think about dnath. and I oiTPr thPsP rPnmrks with an PIHIInss dosn of humility." 
lin m~>ntionPd tlw dnath of Hyan Whit~> and how tlw young man taught us how to confront hatrPd and still maintain good will towards otlwrs. 
l.apsiPy eonfronted topics such as tlw diffPr«HH~n betwenn lwing and non-hning, anxiety, rwenssity of rommitment. find­ing orw's id1mtity and what type of Pduration a Catholic univer­sity should providP. 
"A man is tlw particular bning who must bn aware of and rn­sponsibln for himsnlf if hn is to bnconw a snlf. TlwrPI'ore, our lwing doPsn't unfold automati­rally and we ran dwose not to bn," said l.apslny. 
CLASS OF 1992 

Anyone interested in applying for 1991 Junior Parents Weekend Chairperson should pick up an application irrthe Student Activities Office~}~ Deadline is April 11. 
Why Send Your Winter Clothes Home for the Summer? 
Just pick up a storage box at Ziker Cleanen, Fill it witli your winter clothes, and return it to Zikers to be cleaned and stored, on hangen in our moth-proof vault for the summer. 
*Low Cost Storage 
*Nothing to Pay IJ'ill Fall 
*Protection from Moths/Fire/Theft 
*More Closet Space for your 


summer things. 
I ConviiDiaal Locations 
*107 us 31 
(across from Bob Evans) 
271-8093 



*Ironwood al Soalb 
Bead Ava. 
(Nullo Marlins)Greenwood Shopping Cenlar 172-8481 


Lapsley also said, "A person rannot have bning or self-hood without ronfronting non-bning. Death will arrivn at some un­known timP in the futun~." 
liP said that human beings antieipatP d•~ath and earh fu­rwral tlwy att•~nd is a drnss re­lwarsal for thPir own. "Death is not tlw only form of non-bning in our existence. Thern arn so many littln dyings, it is hard to know whirh one is dnath.,"said l.apslny. 
liP said that life becomns tragi•: if wn wastn our lives be­causn wn don't have a second rhance to make things right. 
lin said, "Anxiety oerurs at the point whore some emerging possibility faces you and there is a risk. It gives the opportu­nity to forsake new possibilitins .. . thereforn we stand at the thrnshhold. We are unable to be ourselves, but also unable to become what we must be." 
According to Lapsley there arc two kinds of committmnnt: conditional and unconditional. 
"Conditional committmnnts arn ordinary things of life that guidn us in our decisions of marriagn. ambition, cai'nnrs and education. Thesn are de­feasablc bncause each can bn 
overridden," said Lapslny. "Unconditional commitments arn so fundamnntal that they cannot be overridden by any conditions. If wn overrule thesn, wn put lasting psycholog­ical damage upon oursnlvns." 
Lapsley said. "Do the things you think deeply about and thosn things which prnoccupy you." · 
Lapsley said that many of us aro considered conditionally committed Christians. It is just onn morn thing that wo are within our self. lin said thn Catholic church is partly to blame for this. 
"Thn church recognizes only two sacramental callings. What about our ordinary lives?" questioned Lapsley. 
Lapsley said, "A Catholic ndu­cation should provide content where we trade ordinary items for unconditional commitments, because otherwise it isn't any different from other universi­ties." 
Lapsley said, "If I stay trun to my unconditional committ­ments, I can say I was true to myself." 
IAMERICAN CRCANCER 'SOCIETY~ 

Vigil for Ryan 

(L to R) Leslie James, 10, Emily McCarty, 10, and Julie James, all of Indianapolis, take part in a candle­light vigil in memory of AIDS victim Ryan White on the steps of the circle monument in downtown Indianapolis Monday. White was remembered for his contributions to AIDS education and the strength he showed in his 5-year battle with the disease. 
Applications for chairperson, executive committee FOR INTERESTED FRESHMEN: 







1991 Sophomore Literary Festival 
Available at Secretary's desk, Student Activities (2nd Floor, LaFortune) 
LAST DAY TOMORROW 
page 3 
The Observer/Scott McCann 

Daniel Lapsley, assistant professor of psychology, tells an audience in Theodore's Tuesday night what he would have to say if he knew he would die the next day. The "Famous Last Words" lecture series is sponsored by the Student Government. 
Holy Cross drops the 'Junior' from its name 
Special to The Observer dent of thn college. "It reflects 
thn fact that our curriculum is 

The President and Board of of high quality and offers con­Trustees of Holy Cross Junior fidnnce and strength to stu­College announced that as of dents who arn eonsidnring lloly .July 1. 1990, the College will bn Cross as a starting point for known as lloly Cross College as their post-secondary studins." a result of official action by thn Tlw name change is a rnsult Board of Trustees. of extensivn consideration by 
The College will rnmain a thn Board of Trustees. Thn rnc­two-year institution and con­ommnndation for the namn tinue its current academic pro­change originated in a commit­gram. ten nstablishnd through the 
"The change in our name is long range planning process. consistent with national trends The Trustnes adopted the reso­in two-year colleges," said lution for the name change on Brother David Naples, presi-October 20, 1989. 
AP Photo 


The Observer 

Freedom riders 

AP Photo 
Jubilant Nepalese ride through the streets of Katmandu Monday, waving opposition Congress party flags and shouting "freedom" after Nepal's King Birendra announced an end to the 29-year-old ban on political parties and the abolition of a partyless system in the Himalayan Kingdom. 

Lecturer claims that El Salvador's warring factions are able to work out differences 
By JOHN FISCHER 
News Writer 
Peace between warring fac­tions in El Salvador is a possi­bility, Rita Kopczynski said in a lecture Tuesday. 
The lecture, titled "Reflections on the Current Sit­uations in El Salvador," dealt with Kopczynski's recent trip to Santa Cruz, El Salvador, and her discussions with various people living there as to the po­litical tone in that country at the present time. 
Kopczynski, assistant direc­tor for the Institute of Interna­tional Peace Studies at Notre Dame, remarked on the fighting of recent months involving the military and the FMLN, the leftist resistance movement. She said that during the fight­ing, the military had occupied an orphanage and threatened to blow up a full church. 
Despite the fighting, Salvado­ran President Alfredo Cristiani is said to be willing to negoti­ate, as is the FMLN, which "has declared a moratorium on such actions as car bombing and as­sassination of mayors" by the far left, according to Kopczyn­ski. 
She said, however, that if the talks do not achieve anything, the FMLN may launch another offensive. Meanwhile, there is fear of a right-wing backlash to Cristiani's efforts. 
Kopczynski said that the mili­tary was still engaging in tor­ture of citizens, describing graphically an episode involving a woman who was forced to put her head in a plastic sack filled with lye. 
She also said that the mili­tary was also buying land in the hopes of establishing a bank. Its holdings currently exceed that of the Fourteen Families, the former aristocratic regime in El Salvador. 
Santa Cruz, the Salvadoran village visited by Kopczynski, has been selected by the Insti­tute to receive aid and to main­tain relations with Notre Dame. 
HPC voices its support for Student Govt. report on alcohol and hall semi-formals 
By FRANK RIVERA News Writer 
The Hall Presidents' Council Tuesday night agreed unani­mously to support the recom­mendations of the Student Gov­ernment report suggesting nu­merous changes in the all-hall semi-formal policy. 
The proposal recommended that "the University should re­evaluate its commitment to the recommendations of the Task Force on Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol." 
Some of the policy changes have been adopted, but the more important changes rec­ommended by the committee have been ignored, according to the report. 
Mike Carrigan, chairman of the year-long report, submitted the proposal to the HPC, pre­sented background information and answered questions con­cerning the report. 

The Student Government res­olution was submitted to the Office of Student Affairs on Monday and will be submitted to the Campus Life Council April 18. 
Freshman Orientation committee member Greg Swi­hura asked each hall president to submit the names of the re­spective hall Freshman Orienta­tion commissioners by Thurs­day. 
According to Swihura, the committee is behind and needs the names of the commissioners to be submitted to the north and south quad orientation co­ordinators. 
The coordinators will meet with the commissioners April 17 to attempt to complete the planning before the end of the spring semester, said Swihura. 
Julie Wright, Year of the­Woman Committee member, suggested that each hall ap­point a "Year of' commissioner in order to promote hall in­volvement in such events. 
In other business, the IIPC elected three representatives to Student Senate. Charlie James, Jim McCarthy and Ted Stump( 
Applications for the offices of HPC Executive Coordinator and and Secretary will be available April 17 in the HPC office in LaFortune and will be due by April 23. 


GETACTIVE!! 





RECYCLE 

NOTRE DAME 
IICaTU/1.IJIIS/1 

a planet is a terrible thing to waste I 
Aluminum eNewspapers eGlass For more information contact Paul Ruesch 277-6172, or call 239-7668 
Wednesday, April 11, 1990 


Walesa announces his intention to run for presidency of Poland 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) ­Solidarity leader Lech Walesa was quoted Tuesday as saying he will run for president in the next election. 
The report by the government news agency PAP could not im­mediately be confirmed with Walesa or his spokesman. Aides and colleagues of the Solidarity leader have long been saying he is considering a pres­idential bid. 
Jaroslaw Kaczynski, a close associate of Walesa's and edi­tor of the Solidarity Weekly newspaper, said the leader's comments to PAP should only be "understood as a general declaration, not connected with present events." 
"I confirm," PAP quoted Walesa as saying when asked if he would run for president. "We have many wise and valu­able people in government, holding various posts. However, one must speed up the pace of reforms and destroy the old arrangements." 
President Wojciech Jaruzelski, the general and former Communist Party leader elected by Parliament in July, officially is to serve a six-year term until 1995. 
However. there is widespread belief that the next presidential election will be moved up as part of an overhaul of the Pol­ish Constitution. 
The most likely time for elec­tions appears to be spring 1991, when Poland would be marking the 200th anniversary of its first written constitution. 
Nothing in his remarks on PAP indicated when Walesa thought the· election might be, and Kaczynski suggested the leader was not talking about an immediate presidential cam­paign. 
"Nobody is talking about the date for elections or about starting any procedures," he said. "He just states the certain fact" that he will run when Jaruzelski leaves offices. 
"This should be understood as a general declaration. not connected with current events," Kaczynski added. 
Kaczynski said Walesa is eommitted to winning re-elec­tion as Solidarity's chairman nnxt week, when the union holds its first national congress in nine years. 
"I will run in the election and you know that wlwn I run I want to win," Walesa told the Solidarity Executive Commis­sion on Tuesday in Gdansk. "And I count on your support." 
Walesa is expeeted to be challenged by union members who feel Solidarity has strayed from its ideals of 1980, putting politics ahead of trade-union goals like defending workers' interests. A long-time Walesa critic, Marian Jurczyk of Szezeein, has formed a rival faction called Solidarity '80. 
Jaruzelski was elected presi­dent at a time when Poland was the only East bloc country to have a legal opposition and to be making such bold moves to­ward democracy. 
Jaruzelski was to serve as a guarantee to the Soviet Union and Poland's Warsaw Pact al­lies that Poland would do noth­ing to upset the East bloe al­liance. 
However, that purpose has changed with the fall of com­munists from power in all six Warsaw Paet countries except the Soviet Union. More radical reformers in Poland feel it is time to oust Jaruzelski in order to speed up changes in the country. 
Jaruzelski also has his advo­cates in the Solidarity-led gov­ernment and Parliament. They feel that as president, he has behaved with restraint and shown good cooperation with Solidarity Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki. 
Elections now would b() a di­visive distraction from coping with the country's pressing economic problems, they say. 

Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
You're In Good Company... 
Walt Whitman, Poet 

P.L Tchaikovsky, Composer Keith Haring, Artist Lily Tomlin, Entertainer Emily Dickenson, Author Aristotle, Philosopher Cary Grant, Actor Lawrence of Arabia, Military Genius Perry Ellis, Designer Willa Cather, Author Leonard.Bemstein, Conductor Philip Johnson, Architect Herman Melville, Author Tennessee Williams, Playwright Eleanor Roosevelt, First Lady David Hockney, Artist Leonardo da Vinci, Renaissance Man Calvin Klein, Designer James Dean, Actor Sebastian, Catholic Saint Paul Lynde, Entertainer Barney Frank, US Congressman Gertrude Stein, Author Alexander the Great, Military Genius Erasure, Musical Group Leo Tolstoy, Author 
Susan B. Anthony, Suffragette Sandra Bernhardt, Comedienne Michelangelo, Renaissance Man Andy Warllol, Artist Tony Curtis, Actor Socrates, Philosopher Julian ill, Pope Oscar Wilde, Playwright 
Sources: The Gu 8sri; gC I isis. Out oC aQ Tw, The Gu AJnww:. 
You're in good company if you're gay, lesbian, or bi­sexual. Throughout histo­ry --a history that has tra­ditionally been abusive and oppressive towards gay people --there are still a number of famous people in every field who hap­pened to be gay. 
Growing up gay is tough enough for a kid, but with no positive gay role mod· els, the search for a good self identity can be de­pressingly difficult. 
History has done its best to prevent gay people from advancing, but when a gay person does achieve prom­inence, his or her homo­sexuality is often ignored completely. 
The people to the left are or were gay. Over one thou­sand students, faculty, and staff on these campuses are gay. If you're one of them, write or call us for more infonnation. 
Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame /SL Mary's College Post Office Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
orcoU)ames(~256)orMike (28H045) 

Wednesday, April 11, 1990 The Observer 

Professor claims high school grades are generally ignored by American employers 
formance and early jobs or high quest to see the applicant's
By CLAIRE ROBINSON 
News Writer school graduates in both the high school transcript. If they 
United States and Japan. He do, they focus more upon the 
compared the two countries be­student's extracurricular activ­
Corporations in the United cause of their similar school ities and attendance of classes States tend to overlook the systems, enrollment rates, and than upon his grades. As a re­academic performances or their industrialization levels. sult, students tend to concen­job applicants when hiring high In Japan, secondary schools trate upon what is expected of school graduates, said James provide much more support for them in order to receive a Hosnnbaurn, a professor of so­post-graduation employment diploma, not to earn good dology at Northwestern Uni­than in the U.S. Japanese grades, hn explained. versity. schools have special relation­
According to Rosenbaum, ships with large corporations, "We have created a situation grades arn very good predic­which recruit at particular where the incentives are all tors for a high school gradu­schools. In turn, the school pre­wrong," said Hosenbaum. "It is ate's pt~rformanee during his or screens all applicants by select­somewhat remarkable to me lwr first year on the job, as well ing nominees to apply for the that this insignificant effect of as good pn~dictors for the stu­positions, he said. grades upon employment has dent's salary latnr on in his ea­not been noticed before." 
rnnr. Much of the competition for 
In a lncture he gave Tuesday jobs takes place before the stu­Hosenbaum resolved that at the Center for Continuing dent actually enters the job schools and corporations need l·:dueation, he said that. in the market. Employers place em­a system similar to that of linitnd Statns, employers phasis primarily upon academic .Japan, which would "create 
considnr grades an important excellence in .Japan, said linkages in which employers factor when hiring college Hosenbaum. reward grades with better graduatns, but unimportant jobs." Since high school grades whnn hiring students who re­In contrast, secondary are in fact good predictors for etdved only a secondary school schools in the United States first year job performance, em­ndueation. have little to do with postgrad­ployers should have better ac­
Hosnnbaum has studied the uate employment. Companies cess to and give more consider­link betwe••n high school per-which hire studnnts rarely re-ation to high school grades. 

BUYONE PAIRGET ONE FREE. IN ONE HOUR. 


AN OFFER FOR PEOPLE Wfi1I VISUAL SENSE. AND COMMON SENSE. 
Here's an offer for your stylish side and your practical side. It's Pearle's Common SenseOffer. Choose from famous brand name frames like Halston, Cosmopolitan, Versailles, Stetson, Porsche Design by Carrera and LaCoste. And when you present the coupon and buy any complete pairofglasses, you'll getasecondpairfree from ourspecially tagged collection. Orget afree pairofDuraSotrclearcontacts when you purchase any pairofDuraSotrColors contact lenses. And be sure to get athorough eye exam from one ofthe experienced Doctors ofOptometry at Pearle. 
rKNc -FREEGLASSES--T --FREECONfACTS-i:NCI 
I 
1Buy acomplete pair ofglasses at regular price and 1GetapairofDuraSofrclearcontacts (sameprescrip-1 get asecond pair (same prescription) free, from our tion) free when you purchase any pair ofDuraSofrI specially tagged collection. Offer includes most single vision I Colors contact lenses. Coupon must be presented at time of I and bifocal prescriptions. Some lens restrictions apply. Valid through I order. No other discounts apply. Valid through June 9,1990at participat-I 
L 
June 9, 1990 at participating Pearle locations. Minimum first pair pur-ing Pearle locations. Eye exam and care kit not included.1chase $75. Progressives, tints and coatings available at additional charge I I on second pair. Complete glasses include frames and lenses. Coupon DumSoft"colors IImust be presented at time oforder. Noother discounts apply. 1 PEARLE EXPRESS PEARLE EXPRESS
..L .J 
llrADIr Cvnocrr~ 

UNIVERSITY CENTER rJ;Hn.uIJI.r.'lLAJ SCOTISDALE MALL 6502 GRAPE ROAD NEAR TARGET NEXT TO SERVICE MERCHANDISE {j I ASSES IN ONE HOI/R* 
291-1792 277-7723 
Eye Examinations available from Independent Doctors of 
Optometry. Dr.]. F. Longenecker Dr. D. Cukrowicz Optometrist Optometrist 272-9898 299-0961 

IC1!1!10 p..,~•. Inc. 
pageS 


-
AP Photo

Peruvian presidential candidate 
Alberto Fujimori, 51, son of Japanese immigrants, and presidential candidate of the independent Cambia 90, breaks a brick with a karate chop. Fujimori, who was virtually unknown one month ago, took second place in presidential elections to force a run-off with famed novelist, Mario Llosa. t 



Hostages 
continued from page 1 
Freneh Marine guards near the 
main gate" of the West Beirut 
compound. 
In Beirut, the Fatah-Hevolu­
tionary spokesman said, 
"Direct talks between our 
movement and the French side 
have resulted in an agreement 
on their release." Khaled did 
not elaborate. 
There was no evidence of any 
deal, but French President 
Francois Mitterrand personally 
thanked Gadafi for "the deter­
mining role he played in the 
happy ending of this affair." 
Foreign Minister Holand Du­mas praised what he called Gadafi's "noble" gesture. 
"(ThP rPlt~ase's) rna! value will bn appreciated in the futum of relations between France and Libya." Dumas said with­
out nlaborating. 
In Brusst'ls, Fon~ign Minister Mark Eyskens said he hoped the release "can be eonsiden~d as a teslimony of good faith concerning the release of the other" hostages. 
The Abu Nidal group still holds lloutekins' brother Ern­manuel. and Emmanuel's wife. teen-age daughter and son. 
The group linked freedom for them to the release of Nasser Sa'eed. a Palestinian serving a life term in Belgium for a .June 1980 grenade attack on Jewish youths in Antwerp. 
The Belgian government has not responded to the offer. 
Who is Abu Nidal? 
THE MAN ~~ TIMELINE TERRORIST ACTS 
1981
• 
REAL NAME: Sabri ai-Banna Blamed for scores of violent 

• 
BORN: About 1937 in Jaffa, attacks, including: British Palestine (now located 1982 


Shot and wounded Israeli

in Israel) ambassador in London; Israel• BASE: Thought to live near 1 responded by invadingTripoli, Libya 1 
Lebanon largest component group of 1*-ljGulf Air jet blown up in mid-air, 
• CAREER: Official of Fatah, 
11984 killing all 122 aboard
PLO, until 1973. Broke with 
PLO in 1973 and formed his 
own terrorist group 
1985 Holiday season attacks on 
THE TERRORIST GROUP 
Rome and Vienna airports,

1
• NAME: Fatah-Revolutionary 1986 over 20 killed 
Council, plus a dozen varied +---J Attack on Istanbul synagogue. cover names 21 killed
1 
1987
• CREATED: 1973 
• POLITICS Committed to +-----French yacht Sileo attacked in
1violent destruction of Israel 1988 Mediterranean oH Gaza: four 
• PATRON: Arms, funds and 
Belgian and French adults and bases thought to be supplied four children taken hostage.
1
by Libya 1989 Two children released in 
• INTERNAL SPLITS: Bloody December 1988: two adults feud in late 1989 left some 200 and a child born to them in
1 
dissident members dead 11990 captivity released April1990. 
AP/Pat Lyons 



~March of Dimes 
~ illililiiiBIRJ'H..DEFECTS FOUNDATfONIIIIiliillil 
-----------------~--~------------------------~------------~--~------------­
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, April 11, 1990 
Faculty debate over confidentiality, deans on Athletic Board 
By KATE MANUEL next meeting of the Faculty News Writer Senate. 
A second resolution, which 

Concerns about whether said that the Faculty Senate deans, associate deans, and as­ask the president's office to re­sistant deans should represent view the articles for the compo­faculty interests on the Paculty sition of the FBCA and comply Board in Control of Athletics with them, had been passed at and about the degree to which the Faculty Senate meeting in FBCA proceedings should be March. open to faculty observation The third resolution asked surfaced at Tuesday's meeting that "the blanket seal of confi­of the Faculty Senate. dentiality be lifted, that meet­
Steven Fallon. an assistant ings of the FBCA be made open professor in the Program of to the faculty except in cases Liberal Studies and a member involving "the amateur standing of the Student Affairs of individual students, aca­Committee of the Faculty demic delinquency, serious dis­Senate, proposed an amend­ciplinary offense or violation of ment to Article IV of the University athletic regulations, Academic Articles that would the approval of captains and specify that the Faculty Board student managers of all in Control of Athletics consist University teams, and the win­of "eight members from the ners of monograms." faculty, excluding deans, asso­Borelli supported this resolu­ciate deans, and assistant tion by saying, "I don't look too deans". much to the title Faculty Board 
In urging acceptance of this in Control of Athletics. I'm be­
resolution, Fallon said, "There ginning to get the feeling that 
are only five non-dean faculty the FBCA is a bit of a misnomer 
members on a board that was and an oxymoron. But there is 
supposed to have eight." an interrelation between aca­
Mario Borelli, associate pro­demics and athletics when a 
fessor of Mathematics, sug­poorly prepared high school 
gested that the amendment student comes in or when a 
specify the manner in which student is unable to participate 
members of the board are in a sport for academic defi­
elected rather than explicitly ciencies. I don't know of any 
exclude deans. He said, "to other way as a faculty member 
eliminate deans just because to see ·how athletic decisions 
they are deans is to exclude are made." 
people like assistant chairs for F. Ellen Weaver, an associate 
being assistant chairs; it is professional specialist and as­
wrong to isolate people for this sistant chair of Theology, 
reason." spoke on the issue of who can 
Fallon responded to Borelli's be considered special faculty 
suggestion by saying, "The and what the criteria are for 
deans strike some as a swing promoting special faculty 
group; faculty, under the dean members. 
level, is under-represented on a 
board meant to accommodate Weaver, and her colleagues 
them and give them a voice." on the Committee on Special
He said that deans have ac­Faculty, defined special faculty 
cess to the Administration in as "those professional, 
daily meetings while other fac­associate professional, assis­
ulty members have no access to tant professional, and staff 
the Administration other than specialists who make a direct 
membership on the FBCA. and significant contribution to 
This resolution, one of three the academic life of the 
resolutions introduced at this University through teaching
meeting, was tabled until the and research." 

AP Photo

Remembering the dead 
A British soldier stands beside a massive water-filled crater which cuts the road in two, after a landmine exploded under an Ulster Defence regiment vehicle near Downpatrick Monday, killing the four soldiers on board. The wreckage of the Land Rover can be seen in the field at center left. The Irish Republican Army claimed responsibility for the explosion. 
Bush praises Gadafi for his role in release of hostages in Palestine 
TORONTO (AP) -President been dropped off at the French "has any implications at all" as Bush on Tuesday complimented Embassy by masked gunmen. it related to the eight U.S. Libyan leader Col. Moammar Gadafi last week called for hostages in Lebanon, including Gadafi for an apparently posi­the release of hostages as a Terry Anderson, chief Middle tive role in the release of three humanitarian gesture. East correspondent of The As­European hostages but said "Look, who am I to argue on sociated Press, who has been major differences with Libya this case? If somebody can help held more than five years. remain. free one hostage, any person 
Bush said he didn't know if held against his or her will, give "A few weeks ago, there was the release had implications for that person credit," Bush said. a flurry of understandable ex­
U.S. hostages being held, but "A person deserves credit for citement about the release of called anew for their release as facilitating the release of people these people," Bush said. "And "a manifestation of good will." held against their will any­I had difficulty understanding The president, during a ques­where in the world, I would where was all this coming 
tion-and-answer session with certainly say fine, give the per­from? What's driving this news Canadian Prime Minister Brian son credit," Bush said, while flurry?" Mulroney, was asked about the saying he didn't "know enough action by a Libyan-backed about the facts of this release." "And I still don't know the 
Palestinian group in freeing a "If this individual, Col. answer to that." French woman, a Belgian man Gadafi, had a part in it, I would and their young daughter say that's very positive. But But, he added, "I would just 
Tuesday after holding them for we've got some major differ­repeat that good will begets nearly 2 1/2 years. ences with Libya that continue good will. And a manifestation 
The three arrived in Paris on to exist," Bush said. of good will would be the re­Tuesday after a five-hour flight The president said said he did lease of these American from Beirut. where they had not know whether the release hostages." 

West and many others said ::w~-:-:-:~:-:~:::2:1:~tstrtlia~::-:::::u~ii:~~t:=:
that the birthright of white skin ..~:~P¥..................-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-¥-..~_..._._._._._._._._._-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.­
should not be a criteria for an 
authoritative position. He said .·:_t--------.._. -.-.-.k--.. -~----~-·:: -.-.-.-.--­
.. --.. .. ......

the insinuation that the minor­-..-.. _..__-_-_-_-_ --------........-.. _-__.._.._-_-_ 
ity candidates are selected due ···-ra··a··------------­
·s ·on·--·---­

only to their race is blatant dis­.. --·-.. ----.. crimination. 
The discussion ended with 
ideas on how to approach the 
problem of racism on campus. 
The three main points the panel 
suggested are: 
•Education 
to overcome the fear and unfamiliarity of other races; 

•Emphasize 
Christ's love of humanity; 

•Create 
effective means of communication to discuss racism openly. 




Racism 
continued from page 1 
O'Brien's claim that there are numerous black leaders in American government and in­dustry. John Paul Checkett, president of the Anti-Apartheid Network, said minorities are forced to lose their culture and adopt the white mainstream ideology in order to gain pow­erful positions in America. 
Gina Perez pointed out that the discussion was heavily leaning on the pronoun "he" and that we should keep in mind that sexism is equally as disrespectful as bigotry. 
Searcy asked the panel why they were proud of their race. Many panelists said that they were most proud of their strong cultures which endured the inordinate attempts of America to water down their heritage. Herrera said "blood is blood" and "brotherhood" acts as a solace for him in our ignorant society. Searcy noted that the panelists focused on their families' traditions in­st.flad of the color of their skin. 
The discussion then focused on racism at Notre Dame in particular as Searcy opened a debate on the statement "When ND gives positions to minori­ties, they take away from more qualified white people." 


**ATTENTION FRESHMEN** 
The Class of 1993 Sophmore Advisory Board needs representatives from the following dorms: 
-Cavanaugh -St. Ed's -Fisher -Sorin -Lyons -Stanford -Walsh 
If interested, please pick up an application at the Freshman Desk in the Student Government Office-2nd Floor LaFortune. Get your dorm involved! 
---------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 11, 1990 The Observer 
Mongolia's Communist party calls for reforms to maintain its power 
ULAN BATOH, Mongolia (AP) Tho Communist Party opnnnd a hastily called congress Tuesday with a call for reform to main­tain its 70-ynar-old grip on pownr in thn face of a growing pro-dnmocracy movement. 
"It means a radieal trans­formation of party structure, of its internal rnlations, its principles of activity and meth­ods of work," General Sncre­tary (;ornbojavyn Oehirbat told tlw IJ26 delegates. 
"Sluggish maction to the new situation will amount to sui­cido," he said in an hour-long tohwised speech. 
Tlw congress is expected to last thret~ days, during which dl'legat!~s an~ charged with nwoting thn challenge from now opposition groups who have. organizl'd massiv!~ protests. 
Tlw organizations were in­spirt•d by tlw collapsn of Com­munist partins in Eastnrn Eu­ropl' and rl'form in tlw Soviet Union. Mongolia, whieh lios bo­!WI'Pn China and the Soviet Union, has long bonn a sat!~llitn of Moscow. 
Tlw Mongolian Parliamnnt on Marrl1 23 abolislwd the Com­munist Party's monopoly on powPr and approved of nlt~<·­tions with lllOl'e than one can­didatP. Ueetions are tnntativoly sdwdulnd for July. 
Tlw move follownd tlw Soviet Communist Party's movn to give u its monopoly on power. 
Ochirbat told the congress the time has come to end dicta­torial party control over trade unions, religion, art, science and mass organizations. 
But he said the police force and army should remain in party hands. 
Opposition groups have de­manded the army serve the government, not the ruling party. 
Ochirbat also said the party does not want to adopt capital­ism, even though it favors in­troducing market-style eco­nomic reform. 
"The renovated (party) will ... uphold Marxist-Leninist ideas and apply Marxist-Leninist mnthodology," he said. 
lie also reaffirmed the impor­tance of Mongolia's ties to the Soviet Union, which some oppo­sition groups say has ruled their country likn a colony since Mongolia won indepnndence from China in 1921. 
The party, formally called the Mongolian People's Hevolution­ary Party, responded last month to opposition demon­strations by ousting General Secretary Jambyn Batmon and four fellow members of the party's ruling Politburo. 
The current congress will elect a new Central Committee, which may again change the Politburo and general secre­tary. However, several congress delegates expressed sup rt 
MANUFACTURERS 

HANOVER 
Some straight 'A' options from EFG 
Guaranteed and non-guaranteed loans. Lines of credit. Flexible budget plans. Given the high cost of higher education, it's essential to have more than one financing option to cover your tuition costs. That's why The Educational Financing Group of Manufacturers Hanover offers a straight 'A' lineup of options designed to help you achieve your academic financial objectives. 
It's as easy as EFG: No one else offers a more comprehensive range of options. Because no one else understands your needs better than the Educational Financing Group. Call us at 
1-800-MHT-GRAD 
and go to the head of the class. 
\
Eltual Opponuml\ l.cndc 
\lcmhcr FDIC 

Tuesday for keeping the 61­year-old Ochirbat. lie has been well-received by the public be­cause he was out of favor under Mongolia's former dictator, Yumjaagiyn Tsedenbal. 
Some delegates also sug­gested that most of the current 146 Central Committee mem­bers be replaced by younger, better-educated people. 
Ochirbat said in an interview published Tuesday that he thinks his party can win legisla­tive elections in July. 
"We think people have confi­dence in a party that has led the country to progress over the past 70 years," he said in an interview with the Japanese television network NHK. It was published in the Communist party newspaper, Unen. The party, which receives about $6.6 million from the govern­ment each year, has pledged to become self-financing. But its assets still far exceed those of the opposition parties, most of which lack even offices and telephones. 
The government effectively banned opposition protests during the congress. It decreed over the weekend that applica­tions for any demonstrations must bn submitted a week in advance, and that demonstra­tions that might disrupt public life will not be permitted. 
page 7 

Remembering Georgia 
AP Photo 

A group of women lights candles Monday at Moscow's Georgian church to mark the first anniversary of a clash between soldiers and peaceful protesters in the Georgian capital Tbilisi. 

Achievement 
Educational Financing(iroup 




Lithuania 
continued from page 1 
day with British Foreign Secm­tary Douglas llurd, Gorbachev said, "The adventurist actions of the current leadership ean cost the Lithuanian people 
themselves, the Soviet Union and world peace dearly. 
"We display the maximum political goodwill, although it is 
increasingly  harder  to  do,"  
Tass quoted  the Soviet l eader  
as saying.  

In the latest Soviet show of strength, several tanks rolled through Gediminas Square in the center of Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital, overnight Monday, according to Eduardas Potasinskas of Lithuanian television. 
SECURITY BEAT FRIDAY, APRIL 6 
Three cars were involved In an ac· 
cident on Douglas Road near US 33 
during the morning. 
A Pangborn Hall resident reported 
the theft of his car stereo from his 
parked car in the C-1 lot. 
A Holy Cross Hail resident reported 
a tire cover taken from his car while 
parked in the 0·6 Lot sometime be· 
tween 3131190 and 416/90. 

SATURDAY, APRIL 7 
A Walsh Hail resident reported the 

theft of her bicyle. 
A South Bend resident reported the 
loss of a wallet during Ice Capades 
Show of April 7th. 
A Schaumburg. Ill.. resident was ar· 
rested by campus security for drunk 
driving. 
A Sarasota, Fla., resident was cited 
by campus security lor speeding on 

Juniper Rd. during the evening. 
An Evanston, Ill., resident was cited 

by campus security lor disregarding an 
automatic signal at Juniper and Dorr 
during the evening. 

SUNDAY, APRIL 8 

A South Bend resident was arrested near Pasquerllla East in the early hours of the morning for public intoxi· cation. 

MONDAY, APRIL 9 

A Notre Dame student reported the theft of her coat from North Dining Hall. 
Campus security apprehended two juveniles from South Bend near Dillon Hail in connection With several bike thefts. 





Viewpoint
page a 
Wednesday, April 11, 1990 

c-Ihe ObserNer___ 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Edltor-ln-Chlaf Alison Cocks Managing Editor Bualn... Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 

News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advartlalng Manager •••••••••Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Daalgn Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ........Joe Zadrozny Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Syatarna Mgr .... Bemard Brennlnkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director •••••••••••••••••••••Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chrla Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectiwly as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-In-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL 
Women should be able to assume combat roles 

There are more than 200,000 women in America's active-duty armed forces, ten percent of the two million total, but a 1948 law prevents them from being as­signed permanently to Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps combat units, according to a March 21 Chicago Tribune article. 
The law does not extend to the Army, but in accor­dance with long standing Army regulations, women are excluded from assignment to infantry, tank and ar­tillery battalions. 
Many will argue that women are not physically and emotionally prepared to participate in combat units, but women who choose careers in the military are fully aware of the responsibilities as well as the benefits of such careers. 
"Denying me this opportunity contradicts all ideals of equality," said Deborah Lasocki, a Notre Dame student and a Corps Commander of the Air Force ROTC. She would like to be an F -16 test engineer, but a law for­bids her from this job solely because of her gender. 
Women are different today and they cannot continue to be banned by law from opportunities they are quali­fied to undertake. Greater educational opportunities have allowed women to develop stronger intellects, and it has become socially acceptable for them to excel in athletics in order to maintain physical fitness. 
Qualified women are ready to participate in combat and laws should be changed to ensure that women in America's active duty armed forces are able to join their male counterparts in combat units. 
These women should not only be granted equal opportunities when establishing military careers, but should also be required to share the negative side of equality. If, like men, they are allowed to hold jobs which actively involve them in combat situations, they must also be eligible for the draft in times of war. The armed forces must test individuals and make judgements based on physical ability, rather than gender. Then Congress can be confident that the most qualified individuals, rather than the nation's best men, are protecting our national security. 
This nation prides itself on equal opportunities for all. America is wasting a valuable resource by forbidding its women to serve the country on the battlefield as well as behind the scenes. 
DOONESBURY 
Charity Ball proceeds will aid needy in local and international community 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to make the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College family aware of the ef­forts of this year's Charity Ball Committee. They are organiz­ing this annual event to raise funds to help alleviate hunger in both the local community and the world community. Half of the money raised will go to the Food Bank of Michiana, with the other half going to Catholic Relief Services. 
The Michiana Food Bank dis­tributes food to various social service agencies in the local area. For example. it regularly helps to stock both the Hope Mission, located in downtown South Bend, and the South Bend Homeless Shelter, where many of you volunteer. It is groups such as these that help to make South Bend a better place to live. 
Catholic Relief Services is an international organization that helps provide food, clean water and medical aid in such coun­tries as Ethiopia and Indonesia. 
I cannot begin to say how much these supplies are needed. 
I urge you to make this year's ball a success by attending, and encourage you to become more involved in serving the hungry, the poor and the needy in your everyday life. 
Father Theodore 1/esburgh President Emeritus March 23, 1990 


Meals at Notre Dame dining halls offer both nutritional value and variety 
Dear Editor: 
About a month ago, as the cooks at the North Dining Hall sat down to lunch, we all feasted our eyes upon a Scholastic feature written about our involvements in the meals. Believe it or not, we are concerned about the students, the prices they pay and the out­come of the dining hall meals. 
If I may be so bold as to speak on behalf of all the other cooks, we realize there are im­perfections in our operation, but let's take a look behind the scenes of what is involved in just one dining hall meal. First, we are required to produce a high-volume meal of nutritional value. We have a very limited time to prepare each meal, fol­lowing the rules and regula­tions which are given to us. We realize there are many foods that students would rather eat than what we are putting out, but would they be as healthy and nutritious? 
Next, we play a "hunch" when 

we determine just how many 
servings we will actually need. 
Let's see--will we need 2,000 or 4,000 grilled cheese sandwiches for lunch? If we were to give double quantities to every stu­dent who requested, we would fall way off course as we can­not calculate how many will ask for seconds. Therefore, we limit quantities, try to serve every student at least once and ask that they return should they want more. As long as a stu­dent makes it in during regular meal hours, a cook will stand before a hot grill and ensure them enough of whatever is on the menu, regardless of the quantity going out. If we need to cook an extra 1,000 burg­ers--we do it. 
About the prices. While it may be true that the cost runs a lit­tle more than a meal at the Huddle, consider this: where else in town can one go and get such a variety of hot meals, cold sandwiches, snacks, jellos, puddings, desserts, salad bar, drinks, fruit and ice cream nov­elties for the same orice? I 
challenge anyone to go any­
where in town and lind a better deal. 
Hegardless of one's taste, there is always something of nutritional value and variety on the menu. We admit some of the items are not like "back home," but please remember what kind of volume we are putting out and think about this--would "Mom's" taste as good if she were cooking it for 4,000 people? 
It takes a lot of dedicated people to prepare just one meal at a dining hall, not just "blue coats," but dieticians, manager, chefs, dishwashers, service and maintenance crew, servers, etc. 
Notre Dame is really con­cerned about the students feed­back and they are constantly working to improve the com­plaints heard from them, so please have patience with us as we try "to do it all for you" and not "to you." 
Marsha L. Sisk Cook/, North Dining Hall March 30, 1990 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'He who desires to see the living God face to face should not seek Him in the empty firmament of his mind, but in human love.' 
Fydor Dostoyevsky (1821-1881) 
.-------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------­

Viewpoint ­Combat status won't 



guarantee equality 
Wednesday, April 11, 1990 page 9 
warrior status had a positive effnct on women's equalBy David Scantling participation in our society'! Or, perhaps, has it only served to devalue women and further 
I took an oath of allegiance entrench the military-industrial to our country--as do all complex? military members--on .July 6, Setting the combat role as a 
19H4 at tlw Unitf~d States Air mark of nquality in society is a 
(.'oren Academy in Colorado dangerous myth that I would Springs, Colorado. This oath like to shatter. Whnther you're allowed me the opportunity to male or female, black or white, nntnr into full participation in combat actually takes away thn defensn of the country--to from your equality in the havn full rights as a citizen. society bncause, when it comes Thn womnn who took the same right down to it, combat status 
oath that day are not Ingally means you are expendable. granted this full participation. Thus, your rights --the very rights your are fighting to 
Tlw applieation of this law protect --can easily become. lnads to the discrimination of expendable. women within the military. As the movie Platoon so Carnnr paths to the lop ranks poignantly brings to light, the of the nnlistl~d or officer corps shape of modern warfare, with are first dominated by those its focus on low intensity with combat experience, then conflict, is far from a just those who have held combat struggln bntween good and evil jobs, and finally those who have or the defense of ideals and only had staff jobs. Although beliefs that military members women do progress to the top have sworn--as Angela and I ranks. as long as women are did--to defend until death. denied combat status on legal grounds, then~ will be To generalize, it is the poor discrimination against their full and marginalized of the society position as citiwns in the that go and fight for the 

Qualified women eserve t e
sodPty. national policy objectives that support thn rich. I am certain Tlw Air Force, in its tests on that the combat record of 

chance to defend the country 
wonwn pilots, has found that women would rnad the same as wonwn are much better the combat record for blacks-­pate in any type of combat sit­tion, I want the best people psychologically than men at outstanding. And, on the By Deborah Lasocki uation. But what many might fighting for my beliefs. handling thn stress of combat. surface, one might say that not understand is that this However, I would agree with A I s o , w o nw n e u r r e n t Iy justico would bnen done by I saw myself. dressed in those doesn't only include the land anyone who says that if women partil'ipate as Missile Launch including womnn in combat. drab green "cammies" out in soldier--as I had earlier be­were allowed to fill combat po­Oflienrs in thn Air Force, and llistory shows, however, the the middle (~{ nowhere. face lieved--but also the fighter pi­sitions their rnquirements tlwir pnrformanen--nven in tlw real problems only get buried smeared with the mud of the lots and the naval members of should be comparable to males' high I y s t r ~~ s s l'ul M X deeper. Hacism and injustice area, deep in the enemy's lines. warships. More specifically, in requirements. ll follows that Pnal'nkPnpm systnm--has bnen toward the black community is I was alone and surrounded by the Air Force, this excludes cliclw: a ehain is only as strong outstanding. still prevahmt in our society. hostile forces, and all that I women from piloting or navi­as its weaknst link. The women 
TIH~ Hand Corporation--a Combat status provides for was carrying was an M-16 and gating .any combat aircraft (F-that are out in the field ought military analysis firm--tlw FBI nominal legal equality but a couple of hand grenades. I 16 Falcon, F-15 Eagle, B-2 to at lnast equal the men in and tlw CIA all r1•port that the certainly does not guarantee waited in the damp leaves of Stealth Bomber, just to name a physieal strength and stamina. combat pnrformancn of women equity--as the Vietnam jungle floor for a glimpse of few). To go a step further, up That way, the females can work in lPrrorist groups, insurgency veterans, for example, have that friendly helicopter that to a few years ago, being a on the same lnvel as their male and rPvolutionary groups, and found out. would take me from the missilier was not even an op­counterparts and not hurt the otlwr military actions is clutches of death. As my feet tion open to women. That is, the mission by being inferior in startling. Oncn committed. The issue of women in quickly covered the Jew hundred women were not even allowed any way. wonwn tend to bn morn combat will most likely come to yards to freedom, I could see to be in silos because they con­lPnaeious and feroeious vote in our lifetime. The the doubtful faces of the tained nuclear-tipped missiles, I have been taught that I am fight1~rs than their male bottom line is that the combat helicopter crew. They were say­i.e. combat weapons. In other an equal among men and counterparts. soldier is an expendable ing to themselves, "She isn't words, women and combat­women. I feel that if I am living 
Orw certainly has to wonder -resource. Do you want to going to make it. " anything are strictly taboo. in this country, and I am serv­-With the discriminatory extend expendability to the role Since birth, I have been in an Another fact people tend to ing in its national defense or­tradition of exeluding women of women'! Wouldn't this t\ir Force family. Even after overlook is that it is a congres­ganization. then I have the op­from combat roles within the further the discrimination of twenty years, my father is still sional law, not a military one. tion, just as any man has, to US military and thn provnn women in our patriarchal on active duty, and the military So it is the choice of the people show my loyalty and duty to the ability of women to perform at society'! has become a way of life that I of this nation to have women beliefs this nation proclaims.lnvnls nqual to or greater than understand and enjoy. The excluded from certain career Denying me this opportunitythat of men, why shouldn't we I hope I can do something so year I decided to attend Notre fields. The military, as far as I contradicts all ideals of equal­allow womnn to participate in that my frinnd Angela does not Dame also marked the time I can ascertain, has given female ity. eombat'! have to sit in an MX missile decided to dedicate my future members the greatest range of 
silo--as she does for five 24-to the Air Force. I truly believe career options possible, within Freshmen year, when I signed 
Well, consider this. Angela, a hour shifts each month--and in serving my country, so I the extent of the law. Undoubt­the contract with the Air Force, dassmatn of mine from the Air turn the key whnn the proper joined the HOTC program here edly, if there were not the re­I also signed a statement that I Foree Academy, was codes come through, fully and havn worked my way up the striction on females, women was not a conscious objnctor. I eommissioned in 1988 and intending and legally chain to commander. I have would be in every aspect of the believe in the principles of the currnntly s1~rves as a missile authorized to launch a missile learned what it means to have armed services. Founding Fathers--so much launch officer at F.E. Warren that will destroy military target dedication, to have self-confi­In regard to the trends of to­that I am willing to risk my life t\ir Foree Base in Wyoming. and incineratn millions of dence and to be a leader. day's society, the increasing to protect those idnals. If this Slw is perhaps one of the most people. I will not vote to allow Through the HOTC program role of women has to be con­nation nver voted to chango powerful warriors that has a few women to gain combat here, I am preparing myself for sidered in a military context. that law and the world situa­evnr livnd. status in our current all­a career as an engineer in the Some women are in far better tion dictates my presence in a 
At her fingertips arn the volunteer military because, in Air Force. I have known for shape than their male counter­combat situation (pnr so), I launch controls for a Boeing so doing, a legal precedent will several years that this is what I parts. And, certainly, some men would go without a second MX Peacekeeper be set which requires .aJlnligible want to do, but not until the are not as intelligent as the fe­thought. This is what I call ­Intercontinental Ballistic women to enter the service beginning of my junior year did males in the same field. Stereo­duty. Missile. This Multiple during times of war. Due to I fully realizn the opportunities types of women being weak, As the crew watched me ap­Independently Targetabln the heavy casualty rates that I have by going into the unintelligent and inferior to the proach the thundering blades Vehicle (MIHV) missile contains expected on the modern battle service. I have been told that men have no place in any soci­of the rescue helicopter. a sense 
I 0 warheads--each one with the field, many women would find engineers in the Air Force can ety in this day and age. of accomplishment overcame destructive force of 1,000 themselves legally required to do almost anything they want. I As far as military combat me because my mission out Hiroshima Bombs detonated at enter combat roles--most likely enjoy working in labs and being roles are concerned, I see abso­here was a success; I showed the same time in the same in the infantry, where life a commander. I really want to lutely no reason why women that women could do the same 
place. expectancy is measured in be an F-16 test engineer--which are not even considered to be as men, given the opportunity. minutes. encompasses both aspects. But eligible to fill the slots needed. When I got into the helicopter, I She has legally authorized I am not allowed to be one. So It should be the choice of the turned to the doubting crew, operational control of more It's bad enough I might have what is the problem? Grades? individual to apply or not to and with conviction said, "Of military might than Atilla the to send my sons into combat. I Not enough involvement in apply for such career paths and course I can make it. I'm here. 
llun, Alexander the Great, don't want to have to send my HOTC? Lack of education in not that of an outdated law. If aren't!?" 
Napolean, George Washington, daughters, too. engineering'! It is not any of some women are better quali­
Hobert E. Lee and Patton those reasons: it simply is the fied than the men, then it is the Deborah L /,asocki is a ju­combined . I ask you, has David Scantling is a junior fact that I am female. women who should be sent to nior electrical engineering ma­anything changed? lias the philosophy and A law in Congress still exists defend the nation. When it jor and Corps Commander of inelusion of women in this peace studies major. that forbids women to partici-comes to the defense of my na-the Air Force ROTC. 
---------·~------------------------------------~ 
-


Accent
page 10 Wednesday, April 11, 1990 
Don't Answer if 'Opportunity Knocks' 
MATT JANCHAR ing several of its stars from the admire Dana Carvey for almost main ingredient in Secret of myAccent Writer obscurity of amateur comedy to single handedly rescuing Satur­Success. To make a sad story the world of million-dollar day Night Live from a serious short, Eddie Farrell cons hisJohn Belushi did it. laughs on the big screen. mid-eighties slump-and I'll way into the corporate life of Eddie Murphy did it. Chevy Chase, Dan Akroyd, Billy give him the fact that the script Annie Malkin(Julia Campbell), Dana Carvey ...well ... Crystal-the list of comedians stunk-but a true comedian in an attempt to escape loan tried. that made the transition from must accept at least some of the shark Milt Malkin(Robert New York to Hollywood blame for a flop of this Loggia). Under the assumed NBC's Saturday Night Live continued to grow until the late magnitude. 
identity of a Harvard friend andfirst took to the air fifteen years 1980's. That is, until Dana "Opportunity Knocks" is the with a "borrowed" Porsche, ago. By the end of its third Carvey starred in "Opportunity story of con-man Eddie Farrell Farrell works his way into Milt season, the show had Knocks." (Dana Carvey) and his partner Malkin's pocketbook through established itself as a vital focus "It's terrible, I know," said in crime Lou Pasquino(Todd his daughter's, Annie Milkin, for the nation's amateur Carvey in a recent interview Graft). The plot is a stale heart.
comedy movement. However, with Time magazine. "The concoction of rags to riches and However, just as Farrell isSaturday Night Live served an­script was supposed to be boy meets girl, the same recipe about to complete the sting and other purpose as well, catapult-rewritten." It is true that I that starred Michael J. Fox as a make the getaway, he realizes 
that he has actually fallen in 
love with Annie. As Farrell is 
tortured by this choice between 
true love and cold cash, the 
movie builds to an intense 
climax. Will he return the 
currency and confess his true 
love for Annie? Or will Eddie 
remain the true con-man and 
run with the money? 
It just wouldn't be right for me to spoil the movie's only sentimental moment and give away the ending. Actually, I'm not exactly sure how the film did end, because another member of the audience who was still awake yelled "Fire!" and we all ran to the movie in 
the next theater over. Assuming another identity, Eddie 
All things considered, Dana Farrel (Dana Carvey) entertains a Carvey does a respectable job night club audience in in his first role as a comedian "Opportunity Knocks." on the silver screen. The comic structure of "Opportunity movie's opening and closing 
Knocks" is not without its tracks (which I considered 
faults, though. After relying highlights of the film)." 
upon Carvey's deft imperson­
ations (including George Bush, "Opportunity Knocks was di­
of course) for guaranteed rector Donald Petrie's first 
laughs, "Opportunity Knocks" comedy, and hopefully his last. 
shows the symptom of a com­Dana Carvey deserves better, 
edy in trouble by reverting to not to mention the admission­
racial humor-in this case paying public. Rumor has it 
Semetic and Japanese satire. that Carvey plays a white youth 
This racial comedy seemed to raised by Japanese ninjas in his 
clash with the music of anti­next starring role. I think I'll 
apartheid artist Johnny Clegg stop by the Grotto this weekend 
who was responsible for the an light a candle. 
Skinny Puppy's 'Rabies' and Severed Heads' 'Rotund For Success' 



-
JOHN LANE 
accent writer 

Looking for some new and in­teresting music? Some alterna­tive to the alternative scene? Then look no further than Net­twerk Productions, an up-and­coming record company based in Vancouver," B.C. Two of Net­twerk's bands have recently re­leased albums-Skinny Puppy's Rabies and Severed Heads' Ro­tund For Success. 
Skinny Puppy is comprised of three members. D. Rudolf Goet­tel joins original members Nivek Ogre and Cevin Key. Goettel operates the gadgetry, the equipment that produces the strange background sounds so prevalent in all Skinny Puppy songs. Ogre provides the lyrics and vocals, often distorted through use of synthesizers. Key plays the keyboards and handles the sampling, also heard in many Puppy songs. 
Rabies represents a slight change in sound for Skinny Puppy. There is less beat to the songs, compared to those on older albums like Bites and Remission. There hr"also a dramatic increase in the use of drums. Many of the songs on Rabies, such as "Fascist Jock­itch" and "Rodent", are domi­nated by drum beats. Rabies also sounds a bit like new Min­istry due to the fact that Min­istry lead singer Alien Jour­gensen helped produce and engineer the album. 
Despite these changes, the essential Skinny Puppy sound remains the same. Synthesizers provide the main music and serve to distort Ogre's singing. In addition, there is also a great deal of sampling and odd background music that give Puppy their distinct style. 
Rabies contains some good songs -"Worlock" is a slow track that has great keyboards setting up Ogre's eerie vocals, "Tin Omen" is a grungy song with a fast beat, and "Hexonxonx" has a catchy drumbeat. There are also a number of strange songs on rabies -"Rivers" is entirely sampling, and "Amputate" and "Choralone" have vocals so dis­torted that the lyrics are in­comprehensible. In addition, the cassette and compact disc contain a bonus track, "Spahn Dirge", 16 minutes of live Skinny Puppy. 
While Skinny Puppy provides a grungy, fairly hard-core sound, Severed Heads offers a less harsh and more refined style. Tom Ellard, who fronts Severed Heads, wrote and pro­duced most of the songs on Ro­tund For Success. He has also worked on previous Skinny Puppy albums, doing back­ground music and working gadgetry. 
Severed Heads is a synthe~ sizer-dominated band, sort of like an upbeat Edward Ka-Spel. The drums and background beats are programmed. Ellard provides the main music with his synthesizers, belting out strange, yet catchy beats. He also does the vocals, as his soft voice follows the tone of the music. The result is odd, but good music. 
There are many good songs on Rotund For Success. "Greater Reward", featuring great keyboards, was released as a single last year. "Triangle Tangle Tango" and "All Saint's Day" are catchy tracks that set up Ellard's vocals. Other high­lights include "Big Car" and "L.F.M.", which contain great music. Rotund For Success also has its share of worthless songs, such as "Midget Sings" and "Chasing Skirt." Regard­less, the overall album is very strong. 

With bands like Skinny Puppy and Severed Heads, Nettwerk record company is clearly on the rise. Their sound is defi­nitely not mainstream and not for everyone. Nevertheless, these bands have done a good job of capturing fans with cre­ative use of synthesizers and gadgetry. If you're looking for interesting, alternative music, you should check out Skinny Puppy and Severed Heads. 
Hats is the excellent, new al­bum from The Blue Nile. With the release of Hats, The Blue Nile provides the most relaxing, melodic music this writer has heard in years. 
Hats contains 7 songs, span­ning about 40 minutes. The music is very relaxing, ideal for reading or trying to wind down. Most of the songs sound alike. They are long and slow, with simple guitars and drums, while keyboards/piano and vio­lins provide the band's musical style. The vocals, almost jazz­like, perfectly complement the music. 
Songwriter Paul Buchanan has written some brilliant tracks on Hats. "The Downtown Lights", released as a single, is a good love song with dreamy music. "From A Late Night Train" is a sad song, while "Let's Go Out Tonight" remains upbeat. Some other highlights include "Over The Hillside" and "Saturday Night", which has good guitars that set up violins. 
If there are any complaints about Hats, it is that all the songs sound the same. How­ever, with Hats, The Blue Nile has achieved one of those rare accomplishments: they have been able to blend all the songs together to form what seems like one continuous song. Cer­tain critically acclaimed bands, such as 10,000 Maniacs with In My Tribe, have also been able to do this. 
If you like mellow, relaxing music, you ought to check out Hats by The Blue Nile. This band has put together a num­ber of melodic songs, all sounding alike, to form one of the best albums of 1990. 

Wednesday, April 11, 1990 The Observer page 11 
-

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day lrom 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces
Classifieds 
NOTICES EXPERT TYPING $3/PG 291 3829 TYPING term papers/reports/lettarlresumes. P1ck up & delivery available. 277· 5134 Cathy. WORDPROCESSING  One roommate needed for the summer. House is located across the street from campus $140.00 plus ultilities. Call 288-8260. WANTED: Ride to D.C. Area for Easter Break. Will share expenses and driving. Lv. 4/11 or 4/12 back by 4/17. Alex X1580 NEED TO GET A LOT OF MONEY  NEW G.A. RENTAL -6 BR, LORY, MICRO. CLEAN & FURNISHED, 1-1/2 BATHS. 233-9947 A safe 3-4 bedroom house located across the street from campas. Washer/Dryer, garage and 2 full baths. ph. 234-7650. NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., efficiency-$225: 1 bdrm-$265 dep., references.  UNIOUE-4500 SqFt on 17 acres,2 barns­pasture,fenced,pond,inground pool, indoor hot tub room! A luxury home! Niles. Over 5000 sqft in this contemporary luxury! On 5 Acres­security system,intercom,every feature you could want. Servants quarters with private entrance. Redfield Ad Near State Line. Call Leona Proud 616-695-6933  Top Ten Things We Love About Chris 1a·. Her hatred for that despicable state-New York 9. Small feet 8. Willingness to change her name to Tracy 7. Her Ahranges and lsotonahs 6. Extroverted manner 5. Her phone skills 4. Willingness to try something(one) new 3. A Love for diagrams 2. A Lust for Chow, Thor, and Szone  The Student Activities Office is looking for students to work as Stepan Building Managers, Office Assistants. and Sound Technicians. If interested. call 239-7308. The Copy Shop in LaFortune is ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS for the 90-91 school year workstudy is NOT required BRUCE MARTZ IS THE STUDY CHUBBLES  
272·1837 $$$FOR TEXTBOOKS! PANDORA'S BOOKS Corner of NO ave and Howard 233-2342 STUDENTS! Do you dread puttmg your resume together? This is the easiest resume you'll ever do. Just send $10 today for Resume's Made Easyl P.O. Box 40164, Fort Wayne, Indiana 46804 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL  IN A SAFE AND LEGAL WAY? Sell me your old baseball cards .. call Jerry at x1128. WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OR BIG SCREEN TV PLUS RAISE UP TO $1.400 IN JUST 10 DAYS I! I Objective: Fundraiser Commitment: Minimal Money: Raise $1.400 Cost: Zero Investment Campus organizations. clubs. frats. sororities call OCMC: 1 (800) 932-0528/1 (800) 950­8472. Ext. 10.  616-483-9572. 4 OR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE AVAILABLE 1990-91 SCHOOL YEAR. FURNISHED. W/0. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE RENT. 277-0959. 3 BDRM. HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS. $550/MO. $400 DEPOSIT. 232­3616. FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM  for info. ERA Day. Brown sofa-bed for sale. Excellent condition. Like brand new. You make the offer--we'll consider it. PLUS--natural bunk-style loft. Great condition--easy to assemble. Used only 1 year. $75.00 or best offer. Call277-9281 anytime. Leave message. TICKETS  1 . Her perfect "1 0" HAPPY BDAY MUFFY!! TONIGHT ONLY! EASTER BREAK SPECIAL ALIVE AND UNCENSORED! CORVALLIS CALLING AT LENNY'S WED. APRIL 11 ENJOY YOUR FAVORITE REFRESHMENT AND MUSIC 10-2 To GIJoe, Arts&Parties,& Tom from Carroll:  DINO COLUCCI­(Yes Dawg, this means you). You better start being mce to those two hot chicks, or it could be a long senior year for you. This is your only warning. Mom's Family Reumon (A L1ttle Late) 15. I'm failmg 14 I just don't understand some of these 13 Pull and pray t 2. No. I'm jUSt a wuss 11 How do they get t11em that b1g?  
MRS. COKER. 233-7009. ' LOST/FOUND I LOST: At the Senior Formal, my date lost his Notre Dame monogram ring. If you found a men's ring anywhere, please call Kristen at #2670. The ring is very valuable. FOUND-To the person who inquired about his St. Joe's sweatshirt. Please call back aga1n and leave your name. Call Dave at 1560. FOUND-a set of keys by Stepan Courts on Thursday 4/5. Keys are held together by a piece of string. Call Patatx1560 LOST H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. REWARD. SEAN 2073 LOST: Black and gold Seiko dress watch on the second floor of the library. Please call Pat x24 79 or give to library security at the front desk. LOST: BROWN ARAN WOOL SWEATER. If found, please s:all #4436. Lost: 3 rings, including SMC Class ring. If found, please call 284­5122. Reward offered and no questions. LOST·-A black briefcase by Amencan Tourister. No contents, lost in the lobby of Hurley Business Hall monday night. 4/2190. My only bag, gift from mom. Please call Ted at x3276. No questions. Lost at Senior Formal in Chicago: multicolored rhinestone bracelet of great sentimental value. Probably fell off in the Grand Ballroom.Reward to finder. Call Amy@ 1265. I lost my Canon CAMERA at the Semor Formal dance. Please call Kay at 277-8813 if you found one. LOST: If you or your date picked up the wrong camera at SENIOR FORMAL by accident on SAT night, please call #1765. It's really important! If the film you develop is not yours, please calli  NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE any weekend-ext 1938 PROGRAMMERS FOR SPORTS COMPUTING COMPANY Local company, currently doing work with the NFL. the the NBA. and the NHL. has immediate opening for full time and summer help employees. A technical background which includes VAX/VMS experience will prove useful. HOWEVER. technical experience is not as important as a willingness to work and learn. Strong interest in sports is important. Send Resume to: Personnel Director P.O. Box 4278 South Bend, IN 46634 NEED RIDE TO MEMPHIS 4/12­4/16. X2922. FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED !I TO SHARE 2BDRM APT FOR NEXT YEAR (AND SUMMER IF POSSIBLE) FOR MORE INFO CALL LINDA@ 259-68411!!!11 FOR RENT STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? Sublet a townhouse at Turtle Creek...(2 bedrm.. 1 112bathrm,kitchen, etc.) Call Amy at x2702 Furn. 2 & 4 bedrm. houses. Safe. Washer/dryer. Sand V-ball court. Bruce: 288-5653/234­3831. STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? SUBLET A TURTLE CREEK APARTMENT!! BEAUTIFUL, PICTURESQUE. AND MORE ... CALL KELLY AT 4985 OR JULIE AT 287-9378 NOW!! 6 bdr. 2 baths, Secure house. 1021 DeMaude. $550 mo. Call 234 6688 or 234 5041 . 1-~~­1 I ~ I0·-. D :1277~3324]:  APTS. AVALIABLE LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems, basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new construction, good neighborhood,dishwasher SUMMER RENTAL.Near campus.Furnished.272-6306 SUBLEASING FURNISHED TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER. CALL TOM 273­0302. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291-7153. SUMMER SUBLET WI OPTION TO STAY IN THE FALL Recently redecorated 2 bdrm house, 2 miles from NO, Cheap. Call soon 232-7970. NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD SAFE AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF NO 2773097 Summer Sublet Turtle Creek Apt. Upstairs 2bdrm 277-9470 Tom or Dave CONDO, 2 BEDROOM, 2 BATH, VERY CLEAN, POOL, PATIO, (RGE;;~,~~72 I SPRING BREAK-DAYTONA 1990 A Two Hour Video. See What You Saw or See What You Missed. $17.95 plus $2.00 handling and shipping. 1-800-633-1639. '86 Olds. Calais, loaded. great car. $5600 negotiable. call Rogerx1378 20GAL AQUARIUM $75 #3270 DAVE "Realistic" AMIFM stereo receiver. 60 watts per channel. Great condition but MUST SELL! $175 or b.o. Call 271-5686. 1979 MGB convertible, British Racing Green, AM/FM radio, excellent condition, 54,000 miles, $4,300. Call277-6551.  need grad tix! will pay big$ call277-8692 Attention please. I need two grad tix bad honest, I am willing to pay big bucks for them. Please call Greg at 3114 ............... NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ CALL #2059-JOHN 3rd Year Law Students Seniors -Anyone with Extra Graduation Tickets ­HELP!! Need tickets desparately!!!!!! Will pay lots of cash. Call Meleah at X4229 Need 2 GRADuation tix! Will pay $$.Call Tom-1694. Eccentric millionaire seeking new heir wants GRAD TIX. Harry x2263. PERSONALS CARING, CHILDLESS COUPLE DESPERATELY WISHES TO SHARE OUR LIFE, HOME AND MUCH LOVE WITH YOUR WHITE NEWBORN. LET US HELP EACH OTHER REALIZE OUR DREAMS. EXPENSES PAID. PLEASE CALL KATHY AND LARRY COLLECT AT (201) 635-1307. spunk lords rule STUDENT PAINTERS --NOW HIRING COLLEGE STUDENTS FOR SUMMER EMPLOY. CALL NOW FOR INTERVIEW! 1-800-543-3792 NEED RIDE TO/NEAR PITI 4111­12 $$JOANNE 1270 •• CLASS OF 1991 •• Get involved during your Senior year. Applications for Senior Class Board will be available April 11 at the Student Gov. Secretary's Office on the Second Floor of LaFortune. ******** 1 9 91 ******** The Junior Class Scrapbooks are almost ready and they are only $8. Don't miss out!  Lets go paint the LOVE SHACK Would Mr Dulac object? Thanks for a fun Xmas. The Girls from Lewis Pub Tuesday ion April17 in Haggar Parlor-from 9-11 Come hear the summertime music! Men of NO come enter the "He's Got Legs" contest and win 4 dinners at Hacienda for 1st prize! See you at the Beach Party!! hi ag ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES. 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W., KOKOMO,IN 46901. CLUB23 23 ways of having fun I HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUMMER? Jet there from Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for no more than $229, or from the East Coast for no more than $160 with AIRHITCH (R) (as reported in NY Times. Let's Go! & Consumer Reports.) For info: AIRHITCH (R) 212-864-2000. WANTED: Ride to D.C. Area for Easter Break. Will share expenses and driving. Lv. 4/11 or 4/12 back by 4/17. Alex X1580 EASTER HOLIDAY HOST sign up today with your hall president or at the Alumni Office -­201 MAIN BUILDING. 239-6000 SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES TRADITIONAL EASTER MEAL FREE PHONE CALLS HOME SIGN-UP TODAY!!!! ATIENTION!!I ESTABLISHED BAND IS LOOKING FOR A: LEAD GUITARIST for next year. Must have own equipment. CALL JOHN x1 082 00 WHEN YOU NEED COPIES 00 THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE IS OPEN LATE & WEEKENDS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HEY MARK.  10. Is that like a cucumber? 9. More than 10 at one lime? You can't' 8 I know 691 7 Do guys really measure? 6. Th1s phone doesn't have any 1nstrucllons. 5. Oue1tl It's Moe. He found us' 4 Honestly. the f1nger's a good method 3. Now 1magme ketchup on that hamburger 2. Mana. any good lantas1es lately? 1 Let me guess. Des1gnated Dnver? And from ISO -She's tak1ng all her clothes off I Tim, you have that effect on women I -Meet our crew ... Mel, Mel, Mel, Meland Mill Tm1. IS the cho1ce work1ng the show. watch1ng it or getting la1d? Buger, From Senior Prom to Senior Formal, thank for everything! Your the greatest. The best is yet to comet I love you, Goober. McCleary, you are gay. -TheR.S.P. GOING TO DUKE? ROOMMATE NEEDED. Handicapped law student-­NO class of '88--looking for a person to assist him one hour per day in exchange for living expenses. Please call Adam Milani at (919) 684-5982. BROWN LEATHER JACKET: I lost my "Mirage" jacket on Saturday night at NO Ave and Corby (SCANTS'). If you have it, please call me-lt's of great sentimental value. Reward!! Call Steve@3591 Days Fans! Thanks for the scripts, but I am extending the due date to the Fri. after break to give some people more time. -Molly Jason, 439 Farley SMC FRESHMEN After the Tequila Sunrise sets look towards the night for the Midnight Masquerade is coming !I The One and Only Chanty Ball  
Found (well actually stepped on) on dance floor at Senior Formal: a bracelet...describe it & it's yours...call TK at 3714.  Buy any 12" Italian sub with one litre  For Sale: Portable CD Player HEADPHONE. LINE OUT jacks Excellent condition -$130. Call Ed at X3272.  RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO would like to be dropped off in any WEST or SOUTHWEST suburb. Like to leave 4/11 or4/12. Ca11John,x1031.  I THOUGHT YOU DIDN'T READ THE PERSONALS IIIII $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  THE GROOVE Fn Apnl20 T1ckets at LaFortune Info Desk or  
LOST: Set of 4 keys on a Delco Electronics key ring sometime Friday 416. If found. please call Vinny x2015. LOST: Blue NO wallet wimy ent~re life in 1!-Sat. mght in Carroll. Please return-no ?'s asked. X4961 LOST: One brown leather Jacket. Saturday night at Corby and NO Ave. It is a "Mirage" brand. Monetary reward offered. Call Steve at 283·3591. WANTED  soft drink and •recetve $1.00oFFI FREE I  LAW/MED/GRAD SCHOOL IN ST. LOUIS? Own for What it Costs to Rent. Condo in Historic Bldg For Sale. 10 mins. to Wash. U & SLU Med Ctrs & Main Campuses. Spacious Rehab w/ Appliances & More. Call 271-8242. 1978 VW HATCHBACK RABBIT. EXCELLENT CONDITION. AC. 61,000 MILES. 272-1134. 1981 CHEVY MALIBU. EXCELLENT CONDITION. 87,000 MILES. $1995.272-8333. MICHIGAN WATERFRONT  START YOUR NEW CAREER WITH A NEW CAR! We have special financing for employed graduates. Call: Gary Erb At: Gates Toyota 237-4999 SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! Tickets for the April 22 Cubs game and the May 5 trip to Great America are on sale Tues. April! 0 and Wed. April 11 in O'Hara Lounge, LaFortune and LeMans Lobby at SMC. Tickets are on a first come, first serve basis. Two i.d.'s per person.  'E' IS for Easter w1th family and fnends. Spnng Open House Apnl9·13 12-5 The Country Harvester Lafortune · Lower Level EASTER BASKETS. CANDY. BUNNIES & MUCH MORElli ADOPTION. We are a childless, educated, secure, happily married. white Christian couple. Give your baby a fantastic future. Let us adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­974-8227.  283 BAND CHARITY BALL decorations comm1ttee needs help II 1nterested please call 284 4016 CLUB 23 23 ways of having fun! Attention please. I need two grad tix bad honest. I am willing to pay b1g bucks for them.  - 
Bndget McGuire's is looking for a  DELIVERY!:  5 Acres-2500 sqft. home, 4 ponds,barn,On Dowagiac River  JODY: HOPPY EASTER I! HOPE TO SEE YOU IN CHICAGO.  Help! I need a ride to Evansville. ln. for Easter Beth x4852  :.'~.~~?.~~'.?reg at 3114  
few good women & men! Apply in person betw 3&4 W·Th-F Bar& Maintenance help. Become a workmg part of a Notre Dame tradition!  coupon eKp1res 4-20-90----­ Front. Niles-M-51 N. St. Joseph River Front-2700 SqFt brick home.4-112 acres,225 ft. on River. N.Red Bud-Buchanan.  Little Joy, Don't worry about Saturday, we won't hold it against you. It takes time and practice.  I need a ride to DC for Easter. Can leave Wed or Thur and return Sun or Mon. Will share expenses. Diana 4003  DROP DEAD AG!  

1 11 
1




~-~p-a~g~e:i12~iiiiiii-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-iii~i-i-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~::::::::::~::::T:h:e:-O:ib-s~e:rv:e:r:::.:~iii-iiiiiiiiii-i~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_iii_liilii--.-liiiii-Wiiiiiiie~dliineiii.~iiidiiia~yiii,A~p~riiiiiiiiiiiii·
iii9iii9-0 
Scoreboard 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division w L •-Philadelphia 49 28 x-Boston 47 29 x·New York 43 33 Washington 29 47 Miami 17 59 New Jersey 17 59 Central Division x-Detroit 55 21 •-Chicago 51 23 Milwaukee 41 35 Indiana 39 37 Cleveland 36 39 Atlanta 36 40 Orlando 17 59 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division w L x-Utah 52 23 x-San Antonio 49 26 Dallas 42 33 Denver 39 37 Houston 37 38 Minnesota 21 54 Charlotte 18 58 Paclflc Division x-LA Lakers 58 17 x-Portland 54 22 x-Phoenix 51 25 Seattle 37 39 Golden State 35 40 LA Clippers 29 47 Sacramento 23 54 
•-clinched playoff berth 
Monday's Games Sacramento 1 06. Seattle 105 Phoenix 119, Utah 115,0T Los Angeles Lakers 113, Dallas 106 
Tuesday's Games Late Games Not Included 
Boston 112, New Jersey 96 
Atlanta 123, Philadelphia 111 
Houston 115, Charlotte 112 
Milwaukee 130, Orlando 127 
Detroit 108, New York 98 
Portland 106. Minnesota 94 
Indiana 107, Washington 105 
Utah 114. Seattle 102 
Denver 1 21. Sacramento 113 
Dallas at Los Angeles Clippers, (n) 
San Antonio at Golden State. (n) 
1'1:1 ~ Streak .636 Loslt .618 1 112 Won4 .566 51/2 Lost 2 .382 19 1/2 Los 2 .224 31 1/2 LastS .224 31 112 Lost 1 
.724 Won 1 .689 3 Won? .539 14 Won4 .513 16 Won3 480 18 1/2 Wont 474 19 Wont 224 38 Lost 10 
1'1:1 ~ Streak .693 Won 1 653 3 Lost 1 .560 10 Lost2 .513 13 1/2 Won 1 .493 15 Won2 .280 31 Lost2 .237 34 112 Lost 1 
.773 Won 7 711 41/2 Won3 .671 71/2 Won 2 .487 21 1/2 Lost3 .467 23 Lost 1 .382 29 1/2 Lost 2 .299 36 Lost 1 
Wednesday's Games Milwaukee at Atlanta, 7:30p.m. New Jersey at Detroit. 7:30p.m. Cleveland at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. 
Thursday's Games Miami at Boston, 7:30p.m. Minnesota at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Cleveland at Washington, 7:30p.m. Indiana at New York, 8 p.m. Los Angeles Lakers at Utah, 8 p.m. Charlotte at Houston. 8:30p.m. Los Angeles Clippers at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Phoenix at Sacramento, 10 p.m. Denver at Seattle. 10 p.m. Dallas at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Results For Tuesday's Games Stepan 5 
Shirley's Mole over The Slammin' Simpson's by Stepan 1 t5 Adworks over Lothar of the Hillpeople & His Rubber Cement II over They Want Green Eggs & 
Hillpeople by 9 Ham by 3 Navarre Estates I over lggy Pop at the Buzzer J.R. Cash & The Scam Pieces over Pre-Trial 
by 11 Diversion by 6 Love Handles over We're Here to Fight by 3 Have Gun Will Travel over The Hairy Hindus by Air Midget & The Ground Crew over The 11 
Parrotheads by 18 Stepan 6 
Stepan 2 Phenylketonuriacs From Hell over 64 & We Team #626 over The Bemhos by 16 Each Owe You One by 1 3 Thank God There's Only 10% over Betty & The Enawd over Jaegermeisters by forfeit Frozen Cavemen by 15 Digger. Elway & 3 Other Done In Denver over 4 
War Pigs over Digger & 4 Other Guys Who Have Ninjas & A Banshee by 12 
Outstayed Their Welcome by forfeit Shirts over 5 PW Girls Who Like To Play With Air Potts & The Flyboys over The Fightin' Amish Boys by 10 by 13 
Stepan 7 Stepan 3 Carpe Merklin over 4 Officers & A Gentlemen by V's Revenge over Team #493 by 16 6 Westhead's Warriors over 4 Horsemen & Another Guy Who Likes Wrestling by 1 1 Fighting Kernels over Faculty Jokes by 7 4 Men & A Redheaded Stepchild over Bookstore9 Abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz by 1 3 Conscientious Revolter over Piece of the Action 
by 11 Stepan 4 Ministers of Pain over 4 Guys Who Can Take It Gods of Hellfire over NO's Other 90% by 16 to the Hole & 1 Who Likes To Go Backdoor by 
Michelle Hamrick Is A Fabulous Babe & A 10 Certified Meteorologist over 4 Dudes & A Yorst Team #361 over If You Get Beat By 5 Guys From by 11 the Glee Club Censor This over First Timers by 2 Myself. Spenser. Cotton, Dang Bubier over 
Kickin' Chicken over In The Mix by 3 Terry's Gone So We Get To Shoot by 6 



TOWNHOUSES 
FOR RENT 
2,3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems 
-
Basements FROM 
Rear Yards Washer & Dryer




$419* 

New Construction 
STUDENT/YOUTH TOURS 


Good Neighborhood 
•One-Week Leningrad & Nosc.ow, land only. 


Dishwashers 
••other U.S.S.Itand Eastern Europe tours available. 


call 
232-8256 
1153 N. Dearborn St. Chicago, IL 60610 
312-951-0585 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Wednesday, April 11 
Softball at DePaul (2) 
Thursday, April 12 
Softball at Detroit (2) Baseball vs. PURDUE,.Coveleski Stadium, 7 p.m. 
Friday, Aprll13 
Men's tennis at MCC Championships Women's tennis vs, NORTHWESTERN Lacrosse at Cornell 
Saturday, April 14 
Men's tennis at MCC Championships Baseball at Xavier (2) Outdoor track at Stanford Invitational Outdoor track at Purdue Invitational Women's golf at Lady Buckeye Spring Invitational 
Sunday, April 15 
Baseball at Xavier (2) Women's golf at Lady Buckeye Spring Invitational 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League 
NEW YORK YANKEEs-Agreed to terms with Don Mattingly, first baseman, on a five-year contract extension through 1995. OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Placed Jim Corsi and Reggie Harris, pitchers, on the 21-day disabled list. Purchased the contracts of Mike Bordick, infielder, and Joe Klink, pitcher, from Tacoma of the Pacific Coast League. TEXAS RANGERs-Designated Fred Manrique, infielder, for assignment. Purchased the contracts of Craig McMurtry. pitcher. and Jeff Huson, infielder, from Oklahoma City of the American Association. TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Purchased the contract of Ozzie Virgil Jr., catcher, from Syracuse of the International League. Optioned Luis Sojo, infielder, to Syracuse. 
Bookstore 10 
Flipper & The Undertows Ill over The Elite Sheiks by 17 T earn #481 over Mike Sheets & The Staph 
Infections by 9 
Pete Rose Would Not Even Bet On Us over Luise's Leapers by 14 Hold The Fatone over AI D. Hyde & The 
Keytones by 3 
Lyons 11 All The King's Men over Fastbreak by 3 5 Guys Who Play Hard over Soort Death bv 2 Economics over Chuck & The Single Hitters by 2 
Lyons 12 
The 4 Horsemen & A Jackass over I'm Gonna Getya Sucker by 12 Small But Huge over Nobody by 3 Old Milwaukee & The Sunday Morning Odors 
over Gonna by 2 
Wednesday's Games 
Stepan 1 4:00-Senior Bar vs. Team BAMF 4:45-Sweat Box vs. Maternal Instincts 
5:30 -The ER: We're Lovers Not Basketball Players vs. Five Regular Guys 
Stepan 2 
4:00 -Flounder, The Whaler & 3 Other Names For Phil Sheridan vs. 5 Girls Without A Name Who Just Want To Play 

. BA$EBALL'$ MONEY MEN~ 
Player  Average salary  Years  
Don Mattingly, Yankees  $3,860,000  1990-94  
Will Clark, Giants  $3,750,000  1990-93  
Dave Stewart, A's  $3,500,000 •  1991-92  
Mark Davis, Royals  $3,250,000  1990-93  
Mark Langston, Angels  $3,200,000  1990-94  
Eric Davis, Reds  $3,100,000  1990-92  
Joe Carter, Padres  $3,066,667  1990-92  
Rickey Henderson, A's  $3,000,000  1990-93  
Kirby Puckett, Twins  $3,000,000  1990-92  
Bret Saberhagen, Royals  $2,966,667  1991-93  

Figures do not include potential bonuses. 
Source:USA Today 
Canadian Football League BRITISH COLUMBIA LION5-Named Doug Griffing director of media relations. OLYMPICS 
USOC-Announced the retirement of Bob Paul, archivist and special assistant to the executive director, effective July t. 
United States Baseball Federation 
USBF-Named Bernie Walter head coach and Jim Fuller and Ray Korn assistant coaches of the USA Junior National team. 
BASKETBALL National Basketball Association CHARLOTIE HORNET5-Named Tony Renaud 
executive v1ce president. DALLAS MAVERICKS-Signed Mark Wade. guard, to a 10-day contract. 
4:45 -At Least We Have Jobs vs. Bush's 5 Points of Light 
5:30 -The Mordacious Meatuses vs. Tequila Mockingbird 
Stepan 3 4:00-Moe. Larry. Digger & 2 Other Stooges vs. The Lode Warriors 
4:45 -5 Good 6th Mens vs. Lambadeers: The Forbidden Team 
5:30 -Art & Ted's Excellent Team vs. Broken Down Lovers Lament 
Stepan 4 4:00-(Jim) Palmer's Boys vs. Mom Always Said Don't Play Ball in the House 
4:45 -5 Lew1s Girls With Attitude Problems vs. Apocalypsic & The 4 Horsemen 
5:30 -Wilford Brimley's Tatoos vs. 1st Round Miracle 
Stepan 5 

4:00 -5 Guys Who Lick Fat Shirley's Armpit vs. 10 Legs, 9 Hands 
4:45 -Super & The Webs vs. Roff Twins Fan Club 5:30-Pole vs. 4 EE's & A Geek Business Major 
Stepan 6 

4:00 -The Malcontents vs. Pittsburgh Is Weak 
4:45 -Bacchus & The Lobotomies vs. Pre-Trial Diversion 
5:30 -Sky by 4 & The Butcher vs. Controversy Strikes The Observer/ Michael F. Muldoon 
RESULTS 
Lacrosse 
Notre Dame 22, Lake Forest 8 
Saint Mary's Softball 
Sa1nt Mary·s 3. Southwestern Mich1gan College 2 
Southwestern Michigan College 5. Saint Mary's 4 
Stepan 7 
5:30 -Multiple Scoregasms vs. Joe Ross & 4 Other Recru1ts That Can't Play 
BookstoreS 
4:00 -4 Guys Who Could Beat Dave Alexander & 1 Who Did vs. Snackman & The Snacks 4:45-We're Never Satisfied vs. The Beer Farts 
5:30 -Mrs. Russo. Mrs. Price & 3 Other Bookstore Beasts vs. Box ln. Box Out. Box ln. Box Out 
Bookstore 10 
4:00 -1 0-B's Flying Buttresses Wearing Socks vs. K1ng Cocktail & The Swizzel Sticks 4:45-IBM vs. 11 Games For 5 Bucks 
5:30 -5 Moves In Nadia's Floor Exerc1se vs. Drew A Blank 
Lyons 11 
4:00 -Dining Hall Meatloaf vs. Their Satanic MaJeSties Reques 
4:45 -My Mother Can't Wrestle. But You Should See Her Box vs. Fighting Iris II 5:30-The Commissioner Likes To Beat Girls vs Jamere Jackson. Phil Sheridan & 3 Other Guys Who Won't Score This Year 
Lyons 12 
4:00 -Air Ashby & His Sea-men vs. Buckhead Lawn & Racqet Club 
4:45 -High Entropy vs. Remember Denver??? 
5:30 -Beer Broads & Bookstore: 2 Good Reasons To Go To NO vs. 4 Sprockets & Their Monkey 

GOD GIVES EACH OF US ONE LIFE 
WHAT WILL YOU DO WITH YOURS? 
Have you considered 
lHf HOlY C~O~~ CANDIDAH YfM? 
A one year program located at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring ministry as aHoly Cross priest or brother. Scholarship grants are available. 
For information: 
Fr. John Conley, CSC Vocation Director 
Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-6385 
Wednesday, April 11. 1990 The Observer page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Anyone interested in Ultimate Frisbee-An Tostal '90 should c~ontaet .Julin at 284-4260. Cost is $7 pnr team. l.imitnd spaens arn availabln so call now to mgistnr. 
Women's bookstore basketball schedules am availabln in tlw SUB of'fien. 
SMC and ND women's lacrosse practice is today at 4 p.m. in front of Angcda. 
The Hapkido Club mnnts Tuesdays at 7:30 and Thursdays at 8 p.m. in Bockrw Bm. 219. Lnarn snlf-dnfnnse from 6th dc-grc~n Korc~an maswr. .Join now. Bnginnnrs wnlcomn. For morP information,call x3597. 
Irish spirit hats will lw givnn out to tlw first 500 fans at Thursday's NotrP l>anw basc~ball gamn vnrsus l'urduP. WPatlwr pPrmilting. ganw Limn is 7 p.m. at Covnlnski Stadium. 
Non-varsity Irish Spring run is schndulc~d for Sat., April 21st. Sign-up at NVA. Cost is $4, but you gnl a dollar back if you wnar grPPn. 
Co-Ree soccer sign-ups arn due~ today at tlw NVA offien. Tnams c·onsist of six playPrs, with threw wonwn on thn field at all timPs. Cost is $5. 
NVA events after break include': bikn tour on Sur1., April 221HI; BikP rlinir on WPd.. April 18th: tlw Irish Spring Bun on April 21st; tc~am tPnnis tourrwy April 21st and a kayak raC'C~ April 17th. 
The 2nd Annual Pangborn Golf Championship was hnld last wn!'knnd at tlw Burke~ Memorial G.C. Pangborn I won the ml'n's compPtition with a scorn of 307, nine~ strokes ahnad of sPcorHI-plac·p Stanford. Patrick KusPk of Pangborn was the mndalist with a 7:{. In tlw wonwn's division, Lnwis won top honors and Kristin Braun was the nwdalist. 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy C.S.C. has bc-!'n Plnctnd a dirnctor of llw rwwly Pstablislwd NC/\i\ Foundalion. Tlw Notrn Damn JH'Psidnnl will work with thn foundation to nxtnnd finaneial aid to studPnts and institutions for stude~nt grants and loan funds. It will also promotn IPad!'rship. diseouragn drug use and advarrrc-sports safnty, as wnll as eonduct rc~snarch on Uw quality of ac·adPmic lifn nxpnrinncnd by athlntns and non­athiPtc•s. 

1111 
lj! _ 
~~ · '~~! :: ::: 
"~~:~:d 
~~h:k~?" I 
Tom Garcia, M.D. (UAG '75) 
.·;~.1.·.~.1:~ Cardiologist ::; :;: Houston, Texas · .. 

-: ·=-"The right choice was there when I i!l !~! :: ::: needed it. I made that choice, and now I'm ::: ::~ :: ::: a physician. My alma mater may be just :~: ~:~ 
:: ::: right for you. It's your choice." ::~ ( 

Universidad Autonoma de Guadalajara School of Medicine Guadalajara, Mexico 
Thomas and Aguirre lead Pistons • 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Isiah 
Thomas scored 21 points and 
Mark Aguirre 20 Tuesday night 
and the Detroit Pistons 
outscored New York 30-17 in 
the first 1o minutes of the third 
quarter en route to a 108-98 
victory over the Knicks. 
The Pistons led only 51-49 at 
halftime but they made 12 of 
their first 17 shots in the first 
10~ minutes of the third period 
and opened an 81-66 lead. 
Celtics 11 2, Nets 96 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD. N.J.­Kevin Mcllaln had 24 points and 13 rebounds to lnd a balanced Boston attack and tlw Celties eontinued their run at first place in the NBA's Atlantic Division by posting thnir fourth straight victory, a 112-96 deei­
sion over the New Jersey Nets on Tunsday night. 
Hawks 123, 76ers 111 
PHILADELPHIA -Dominique Wilkins scored 29 points and Moses Malone added 23 as Atlanta snapped a three-game losing streak and pulled within 
Cubs,White Sox record victories 
CHICAGO (AP) -Marvnll 
Wynne's pinch single with two 
out in the eighth inning gave 
the Chicago Cubs a season­
opening 2-1 victory over the 
Philadelphia Phillies on a cold, 
windy Tuesday. 
Hyne Sandberg opened thfl 
eighth with a single and went to 
second on a wild pitch. Lloyd 
McClendon struck out and 
Mark Grace was given an inten­
tional walk. Luis Salazar then 
singled to center, but Sandberg 
was thrown out at the plate by 
centnr fielder Sil Campusano as 
Graefl took third. 
Wynne followfld with a single 
to right, scoring the winning 
run. 

White Sox 5, Brewers 3 
MILWAUKEE -Lance .John­son's basns-loadnd singlfl in a thrcH~-run sixth helped the Chicago White Sox to a 5-3 win Tuesday over Milwaukee, con­tinuing their mastery of the Brewers. 
The Whitn Sox beat Milwaukee in Monday's snason opener and wern 10-2 against the Brflwers last season. 
Red Sox 4, Tigers 2 
BOSTON -Detroit manager Sparky Anderson's strategy worked, but the end result was all too familiar. 
Anderson ordered Wade Boggs walked intnntionally three times -tying a major­league record -but Tony Pena singled home two runs in a four-run third inning Tuesday, leading the Boston Hed Sox to a 4-2 victory ovnr the Tigers. 
It was Boston's 1Oth victory in a row over the Tignrs. 
II L___a_n_d__ 
one-half game of Cleveland in the battle for the eighth and last Eastflrn Conference playoff bnrth. 
Rockets 115 Hornets 112 
CHAHLOTTE, N.C. -Akeem Olajuwon scomd 27 points and pulled down 19 rebounds and llouston, battling for a playoff berth, curtailed a late comeback by Charlottn. The Hockets entnrfld the gamn trailing Seattle by 1 1/2 games
and Denver by one-half gamfl for the final Western Conf'prence playoff spot. 
Thfl Hockets lnd 109-100 with 55 seconds remaining but 3­pointnrs by Hichard Andflrson. Dell Curry, Anderson and Kelly Tripueka put Charlotte within two with five snconds left. 
Trail Blazers 1 06.,
Timberwolves 9'1 
MINNEAPOLIS-Clyde Drexler scored 26 points and Jerome Kersey added 22 as 
BLACKWOOD APARTMENTS 
. Affordable Rent with Heat Included . Great E. Jefferson Blvd. Location . Friendly Community Atmosphere . 9 Month Student Leases 
Call288-2597 for Further Information on 1 
2:_;:_n~--=l~:_;_;_;.:.__;:_;_;:_;_~;-~_;....:....;_:_3_40_._~-~-'-'__, 
ATTENTION: Grad Students Professors Employees 
•furnished 
and unfurnished suites 

•flexible 
leases 


•washer 
& dryer each apt. 

•locked 
intercom entrances 

•spacious 
floor plans w/country kitchens 


l'X)Q SU!·"' MA,W Non 
Sovlh ft.c'n(1 lnt1MI\A 401 2 6 
219•277•3731 @ 
Portland wo~ its 54th g~m~, second most rn the frane~rse. s history. Portland went 58-24 m 1977-78. Portland also won for the eighth timn in its .last 11 road gamns and has. 21 road victories, the most srncn thfl 19!7-7.~ d~b went 22-19. 
1 he I rali .Blazers broke the ga.me open 111 the s~cond ~nd thrrd quarters, takrng a 26­point lead with 3:20 left in the third ynriod. Pe~oh .Hkh;~rdson led Mrnnesota wrth 21 pornts. 
Bucks 130, Magic 127 
OHLANI>O, Fla.-Hicky Pie~rce~ sank four frnn throws in the final 25 seH~onds and Milwaukee outscored Orlando 9-2 during the last two minutns in handing thn Magie thnir lOth straight loss. Pic~ree scorc~d 31 points and Brad Lohaus and .lay Humphries added 23 and 21, respectively, as the Bucks won their fourth straight game. 
Orlando lost for thn 26th time in its last 28 games despite 29 points by Tnrry Catledge and 27 by Hnggin Theus. 
Blue Jays 2, Rangers 1 TOHONTO -President Bush and Canadian Prime Ministnr Brian Mulronny threw out thn cernmonial first balls, them Dave Stieb and thren Toronto relievnrs took over. Thny pitehnd a five-hittnr as the Blue .Jays bnat the Tnxas Hangnrs 2­1 Tuesday night. A crowd or 49,673, the 41st straight sellout at the SkyDome, saw thfl Blue .Jays win for the 11th timn in 14 home openers. Thn same two teams started the season Monday night in Texas in a game rnsehed uled because of the lockout. Lax  
continued from oaoe 16 Fornst. Additionally, the win over Lakn Forest was tlw fifth highest one-game total goal output for the Irish, who man­agnd 71 shots on goal.  
Snnior attaekman Brian McHugh, who stands at sixth on the Notre~ Damfl lacrosse all­time scoring list, had one goal and one assist, raising his ea­rner point total to 100. McHugh neflds 23 points to take over fifth place from Tom Grote (1983-1986), who is eurrnntly fifth with 122 carnnr points, on 60 goals and 62 assists.  
Snnior midfinldnr Mike Quigley and junior midf'ielder Mark Macheca also tallind thren goals apince to aid the Irish onslaught.  
Othnr bright spots for Notre Dame wern two lirsts by Irish players. Senior dnfenseman .lefT Salamon of Long Valley, N.J. and freshman midfinlder Tom O'Brian of Stony Brook, NY, each recorded their first points in Irish uniforms. Salamon had an assist in the third quartrr. while O'Brian beat the Lakn Forest goalkeeper for a seorn in the second quarter.  - 
Defensively, Notre Dame again hnld its ground, as goal­kenpers Tom Duane, who started his third game in a row, and Chris Parent combinnd to save 11 Forester shots. Also, the Irish were successful in clearing 22 of 26 on the day, while scooping up 67 ground balls. Next up for Notre Dame is a weekend road matchup with Cornell, which is currently the 16th-ranked tnam in the nation.  ....  

.. 

-------·----~--------------~----------------., 
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, April 11, 1990 
.. 
~!~NM~!:Y' S at"~?w.~!1~! "~J?.!,~!t,!~~l,~~
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team split a double header Monday at Southwestern Michigan College, leaving their record at 9-5. 
St. Mary's won the first game 3-2. Action began in the sixth inning when Southwestern Michigan walked both sopho­more Janet Libbing and fresh­man Stephanie Kissicorni. The two advanced on a passed ball. Sophomore Carol Grobner knocked in the two runners with a line drive into left field. Grobner then scored on a sacri­fice made by sophomore Shan­non Blair. 
Southwestern Michigan came back in the bottom of the in­ning, scoring two runs, leaving the score at 3-2. But the Belles held on to take the victory. 
"Defensively, we're beginning to look a lot better and that's extremely important," said Belles coach Don "Popcorn" Cromer. 

Blues, North Stars stay in playoffs 
TORONTO (AP) -Gary Leeman, a 51-goal scorer dur­ing the regular season, scored his first goal of the playoffs Tuesday night as the Toronto Maple Leafs beat the St. Louis Blues 4-2 to remain alive in their Norris Division semifinal. 

The best-of-7 series moves back to St. Louis for Game 5 on Thursday. The Blues lead 3-1 and will be looking to qualify for the division final for a third consecutive season. A sixth game, if necessary, would be Saturday in Toronto. 
Scott Pearson. Dave Hannan 

-
.... 
.. 
ter for the Belles, going 1-3 in the game. The winning pitcher for the Belles was Blair, who pitched the entire game and struck out six. 
In the second game, the Belles were not as successful, losing 5-4. 
Action began in the first in­ning when Southwestern Michigan immediately took the lead by scoring two runs on Saint Mary's errors. 
"We gave up a little in the first inning because of a couple of errors that gave our oppo­nent their first two runs," Cromer said. 
In the fourth inning, South­western Michigan scored two more runs, extending their lead 4-0. But the Belles battled back to tie the game. Libbing hit a triple, scoring Judge and Kissi­corni. Grobner then drove Lib­bing home with another triple. Benjamin came up to bat with a squeeze play and brought Grobner home to tie the score at 4-4. But Southwestern Michigan came back and scored tory. 
"We just started hitting well and that's encouraging for us," said Belles captain Martha Judge. 
"The most important thing is hitting the ball and scoring which the girls are showing they can do. We just need to strengthen our defense a little more," said Cromer. 
Libbing led the Belles in the second game in hitting, going 2-3 with two triples and two HBI's. Grobner was also a key asset in the game with three triples while Benjamin went 1­3. 
The Belles will play again this afternoon at Nazereth College at 4p.m. 
"We're right in the middle of our season and we're looking forward to these two wins on Wednesday and then finishing the rest of the season up real strong, in hopes of getting into the conference tournament," Cromer said. 

and Ed Olczyk also scored for Toronto. Hod Brind'Amour had both goals for the Blues. The second, a power-play tip-in of a pass from Adam Oates with 
6:41 remaining, cut the deficit to 3-2. 
North Stars ~ Blackhawks u 

BLOOMINGTON, Minn. -Jon Casey made 29 saves for his first playoff shutout and Don Barber scored twice in the first period as the Minnesota North Stars beat the Chicago Blackhawks 4-0 Tuesday night to even their Norris Division semifinal series. 
Game 5 in the best-of-7 series is Thursday night in Chicago, with Game 6 at the Met Center on Saturday night. 
Barber. who hadn't scored in eight games, benefitted from a line shakeup by Coach Pierre Page. Skating on the No. 1 unit with Dave Gagner and Brian Bellows, Barber got his first two playoff goals this year and had an assist on Gagner's third-period goal. 



Wednesday, April 11, 1990 The Observer page 15 

CROSSWORD
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

7 p.m. "Europe in the 1990's: Its role in the Global Busin1~ss Sector," llayes-llnaly. Sponsored by ND Council on International Business Development. The discussion will bn divided into the Japanese (room 120), American (room 220), and European perspectives (room 223). 
CAMPUS 

7:30 p.m Forum: "Eliminating Ethnocentrism," Jim Bnllis, assoeiate professor of Anthropology; Paul Griffiths, assistant professor of Theology; Teresa Phelps, assoeiate proti~ssor of Law; Holand Smith, executive as­sistant to the President; and Diana Matthias, Curriculum Stru1~tured Tour coordinator of the Snite. Hoom 127 Ninuwland llall. Sponsored by Multicultural Executive 
Council. 
Notre Dame 
Top Hound of Beef Grilled Sole Noodle Kugel Law School Grill 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
-.4\.lllt 'iOOR 0~0 IS Tfo.KING R.OSf<.l'iN 1-\0t-\E, PE.R\\f!..PS YOV'P LIV-E TO EXPLAIW W~~.T 
W.• LIES.' All LIES! ~l'tN Mf<.OC II£ {X) nl"-1 J\l<;T SO l'O GU I~ lROOBil ~ 1-V\"TE'S K\OS! ~t. Of 1\IPi\ 15 ~£.! 1 WENT SW.\G\\T b Rt!>! 
MENUS 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Ham Baked Cod w/Broccoli & Cheddar Shrimp Egg Holls 
Deli Bar 



41 Sailboats 18 River to the department 
52 Skip stones 42 Claws
Seine 53 Squeeze by, 
31 Casa 43 Norwegian king with "out" 

19 Certain combos component 44 Fla. city 54 Ascot
23 More combos 32 Give the 24 Medicinal plant go-ahead 45 Walnut Sp. 55 Poivre's partner 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON 
GaS" tl\0~, W\.\ft..ts TC> TElL? r-.1 ca:ro, I 1'\Jr oN M~ Pt>..l"-l-11\S, BR\lS\-\8> ~~ 1EU\\ 


ACROSS 29 --Ben Adhem 49 Fla. city 30 Kind of TV box or 51 End of the quip
1 Sheik's steed board 56 Finn's neighbor 5 Perfect 31-Hurok, 57 Where people 1oKett of comics memorable get tired? 
14 Millstream 
impresario 

58 Dust-bowl victim 
15--Dame 
34 More of the quip 
59 Pub drinks 
16 "On Golden 38 Winter time in 60 Parts of somePond" bird NYC. hammers 

17 Start of a quip 39 Christmas 61 Sense 
20 Evening social 21 Exxon Valdez, e.g. 22 River to the 
North Sea 23 Leather works 25 Played an 
accompaniment 28 Van Gogh lived here 
carols 40 "Woe is mel" 
41 Cursed 42 Hungarian wines 44 Road con­
struction sign 47 WAfrican republic 
48 Hue 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
DOWN 1 MOMA offering 2 Stadium cheer 3 Experts 4 "In the day of 
prosperity­..": Eccl7:14 5 Native 
6 Mommy, when Junior has the flu 
7 Major or kitchen follower 8 J.FK posting 9 Aloha garland 25 Laudatory 33 Not so much 46 Decamp for 10 Cities in Ill. and 
review romance
35 Private; secret Scotland 26 Sacred wading 47 Cantaloupe or
36 High time 
honeydew 37"The­11 Sheer linen bird 
12 Cosmetic 27 Pedal pusher 49 Challenge 
Pelham One 
preparation 50 University at 
28 Confuse Two Three" 
Durham13 Hopping mad 30 Grenoble's 


Sports
page 16 Wednesday, April .11, 1990 


Lacrosse offensive explosion downs Lake Forest 22-8 
Freshman shines with eight points 
By DAVE DIETEMAN eoach Kevin Corrigan, "and the results reflect that, because we did the things we needed to do to win, and we came out and 
The Notre Dame lacrosse playe.d like it. team chopped down the "We are playing good, hard Foresters of Lake Forest 22-8 lacrosse right now, and this in the wind and rain at Cartier was a niee win to get. It's nice field yesterday afternoon, rais­to play a game like this, be­ing its record to 7-4, while the cause it gave us a ehance to Foresters fell to 1-4. play many people who have 
Freshman midfielder Brian been working hard all season. Mayglothling was the high Really, it's great to get a scorer for the Irish, with four chance to play so many people." goals and four assists on the Yesterday's win was the ninth day for eight points, while in the overall series with Lake sophomore attackman Mike Forest for Notre Dame, as op­Sullivan, who leads the Irish in posed to no wins for the scoring this season, added two Foresters. Also, the 14-goal goals and four assists for a to­margin of victory was the tal of six points. Sullivan's six largest that the Irish have ever points gave him sole possession enjoyed over a Lake Forest of the record for points by a team. The previous high was sophomore, with 39 points. The 13, which Notre Dame clubbed previous record was 36 points, out in a 14-1 rout of the set by then-sophomore Bob Foresters last season at Lake Trocchi ('83). 
"Today, we were the better 
Sports Writer see LAX/ page 13
team," noted Notre Dame head 
By KEN TYSIAC Notre Dame finishing work on The tide turned in Gonna's fa­
Associate Sports Editor his Psychology degree and Tony vor in the second half, and with Rice, who had considered skip-the score 20-17, Old Milwaukee ping his final year of Bookstore was up against the ropes.
Wet courts and rainy weather to prepare for the National continued to plague partici-Football League draft. John MeConville and Jim pants in Bookstore Basketball Johnson and Rice eaeh seored Kockler eventually worked Old XIX in first round games yes-six points to lead Adworks. Milwaukee back into it, how­terday as close eontests were Ten games were decided by ever, and Rick Meyer finally the order of the day. less than four points yesterday, ended it with a 15-foot jumpor 
Perennial challenger Adworks and three went to overtime. In from the right wing for a 24-22 was just one team which had the highest scoring contest of victory. Old Milwaukee was yet the misfortune of playing either the day. Sport Death took 5 another tPam which was un­its first or seeond game on the Guys Who Play Hard to the happy about the weather. slippery courts outside Stepan limit before bowing out by a Center. Adworks braved the 25-23 score when Gerry Bodine "Nobody could shoot from elements to defeat a talented finished the game off with a 20-the outside. The game really Lothar of the Hill People and footer from the right baseline. turned into an inside battle." His People squad by a score of "It was really physical inside said Tony McHale. "Hopefully it 21-12. and there were a lot of fouls will be a little easier and a little 
"It was kind of tough to play called." said Bodine, who warmer next time." in those conditions," said Kevin scored six points for the win­MeConville led Old Milwaukee Keyes of Adworks, who seored ners. "When it got to overtime, with nine points. while Kockler four points. "They were a really the game became even more added seven. John Haley and good team, too. It was a really physical. but the sportsmanship Tim McNeil each scored five for competitive game. You just was still good." the losers. never know what to expect in a Jason Brino led 5 Guys with first round game, there are so nine points, while Jeff In other Bookstore action, many teams. It was kind of Schumerth paced the losers Michelle Hamrick is a Fabulous surprising to run into a team with 12 points and 11 re-Babe and a Certified Meteorol­that good this early." bounds. ogist didn't seem to mind the 
A couple of surprises have Another intense overtime weather in a 21-10 triumph found their way into the Ad-match pitted Old Milwaukee over 4 Dudes and a Yorst; and works lineup. Joining Keyes, and the Sunday Morning Odors Pete Rose Would Not Even Bet 
The Observer/Patrick Kusek Jim Dolan and Derriek Johnson against Gonna. The game was On Us tried to change Charlie Bookstore basketball continued Tuesday despite the inclement are former Irish defensive end tight from the start as Old Mil-Hustle's mind in a 21-7 win weather that hampered much of the play. Cedric Figaro, who is back at waukee led 11-9 at halftime. over Luise's Leapers. 
~~~~~~~~~~~----------------------~~----------------------------­
Alford's no-hitter goes unnoticed as Notre Dame loses 
A Notre Dame pitcher to each other, enabling Butler to cash in three runs. In her last five gamos, she has not allowed an threw a no-hitter and no-Turns out the Bulldogs didn't even need a hit. earned run. She has gone 4-1 in tho last week, with body knew about it. Maybe you could call the game a swap meet of er-the only loss being the no-hitter. Three of those wins 
Not even the pitcher. rors, since the Irish scored their run on an error, havo come from complete-game shutouts, and the 
This is strange. Usually in too. The problem was that stingy Butler offen~d only other was a 3 1/3-inning stint of relief that sealed baseball circles fans will kill one miscue to the Irish cause. This was pretty rude, the St. Francis Invitational triumph. With perfor­small animals to see no-hit-especially since Notre Dame was willing to forego mances like that, a no-hit loss is the softball equiva­ters. There is a eertain aura the batting pleasantries by managing only one hit. lent of a drop in the bucket. of hysteria, fascination, even Imagine that. The Notre Dame softball team, see-fanaticism. Nowadays, when • ond in the MCC conferenee in defense, committed "We just weren't that lucky," contended Alford. Nolan Ryan has a no-hitter five errors in one game, four in a single inning. and "They just took advantage of our errors, and since going through five innings, Scott Brutocao lost the contest for a piteher who was too good to they came consecutively they were able to score off baseball fans widen their give up a hit. us." eyes with spellbound fascina Irish Items ''I'm sure she was disappointed at the team that tion as the Texas wonder attempts to make history we lost," said head eoaeh Brian Boulac. "Normally Oppressed by this rhetorie of neutrality is a feat yet again. But in this game involving Notre Dame you would think in a situation when a pitcher that had never been accomplished in Irish softball's and Butler, nobody was paying attention. throws a no-hitter the team would win, but things two-year history. Coach Boulac's placid attitude may 
"I was concentrating on getting the next batter," like that happen. I've seen other no-hitters in soft-stem from the fact that his ace is a freshman, asso­said a matter-of-fact freshman softball pitcher Staci ball turn into losses." ciate ace Missy Linn is a sophomore, and of his 18­Alford. "When you start looking ahead you start Alford takes the same nonchalant attitude with player roster, 11 of the women are freshmen. He getting into trouble." resigned deference to the quirks of softball. might sense that the well of no-hitters will be flow­
Fair enough. Great competitors have that kind of "It's happened before to a lot of people," said the ing over the next four years. concentration. Oh, and, one more thing: Notre Dame Baton Rouge, LA resident. "It just happened. It was lost the game 3-1. no big deal, because eventually we came back and "Staci Alford is going to get better and better," 
It was Thursday, April 5 when Alford turned in the played well." said a confident Boulac. "By the time she's a senior pitching masterpiece. It was the second game of a Notre Dame did play well, winning its five other we'll be playing at a higher competition level, and doubleheader against the Bulldogs, Notre Dame games and emerging the victor of the St. Francis we'll be a better softball team. We're going to come having won the first contest 4-0. In the first inning, Invitational. Alford, in partieular, has been setting back and win a lot of ballgames." the Irish committed four errors in close proximity hitters <:!own with almost no variation. And maybe next time somebody will notice. 







