VOL XXIII NO 17 TUESDAY , SEPTEMBER 18, 1990 
, THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Student Bill of Rights criticized as 'one sided' 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
Whether or not there is a fu­
ture for the Student Bill of 
Rights was the topic of the 
Campus Life Council meeting 
Monday. 
Many members said that in its current state, the Bill of University and Student Rela­tions is one sided and more of a .rough draft, rather than a doc­
ument in its final form. 
The possibility of a task force, 
made up of Campus Life 
Council members, who would review the current Bill of Rights was discussed. If imposed, the committee would find the focal points, rewrite them and then propose the revised Bill of Rights to Patricia O'Hara, vice president of Student Affairs. 
The Student Bill of Rights, which was proposed last March, guarantees students the right to due process, the right to be judged by one's peers, open disciplinary hearings and the right to a free and uncen­sored press. 
see BILL I page 8 


ND starts program 
By MICHAEL OWEN 
News Writer 
The Department of Classi­cal and Oriental Languages, in conjunction with the De­partment of Foreign Studi~s has proposed a program m. Athens, Greeee for sopho• mores and juniors beginning in the fall of 1991. 
Athens was selected be­cause it "is the center for classical study," according to David Ladouceur, associ· ate professor and chairman . 
of Classical and Oriental Languages. 
Ladouceur added that the Athens area has "some of the greatest architectural sites" for students to study. Many other major schools already have Greek or Clas-· sics programs established in that area, according to Ladouceur. 
At this time, the number of students who will participate cannot be determined, ac­cording to Ladouceur. He stated that, "We are just 


in Greece 
starting now so we cannot be sure. Admissions to the program will be on a rolling basis so we won't know an exact number until about Dec. 1." 
When asked why the par­ticipants in this program can choose between a full year or a semester stay, Ladouceur said. "That is de­cided by the College Year in Athens. unlike other Foreign Studies programs." 
see GREECE I page 8 

Racing to the front 
A Marine Light Assault Vehicle (LAV) passes a heard of camels in the Saudi desert East. In related news,lraq on Monday rejected a propo~ed U.N. v1s1t ~o Ira~. for Sunday. The Marines have taken up positions in Saudi Arabia close to the border to humanitarian aid, and Kuwait's ambassador filed a protest agamst alleged lraq1 atroc1t1es. 


ND/SMC community faces issue of rape 
NO security rarely notified 

Victims urged to report rape 
Editor's note: A recent report in 
CAMPUS By MONICA YANT
Glamour magazine suggests safety can call Security, who 
Associate News Editor
that one out of seven female will dispatch a taxicab to bring students is a victim of rape. In the female back to campus. 

RAPE 
The most important thing a "It's very difficult to teach
addition, the report suggests 
rape victim can do is report the young adults that they're re­
that for every reported rape, 
incident, according to Saint
He added that recent national sponsible for their own safety,"
there are three to ten that are Mary's Director of
statistics show that one in four he said. Because of this, Chle­
unreported. In recognition· of Safety/Security Richard Chlebek 
college females will be raped bek and the Saint Mary's com­
the seriousness of the threat of Regardless of whether the
and that University statistics munity have presented several 
rape on our campuses, The victim wants to file charges, a 
may be indicative that victims programs offering information 
Observer will run several in­report to Security will, at the 
are not reporting incidents: about rape and prevention tips, 
least, put the incident in cam­
formational articles this week •1988: One report of at­including video tapes which will 
pus statistics that can help
on this topic in the hopes of in­be shared with Residence Assis­
tempted rape; people become aware that rape 
creasing the awareness of this •1987: No reports; tants and students this year. 
does happen in the Saint Mary's 
crime. •1986: Three reports of at­In the event of a rape or sex­
community.
tempted rape; ual offense, Saint Mary's Secu­
•In 1987-88, Saint Mary's re­
•1985: One report of rape. ·rity follow a procedure similar
By MONICA YANT ceived one report of rape or at­
Although statistics are not yet to ND Security. First, a dis­
Associate News Editor tempted rape. 
available for 1990, Security re­patcher is sent to the location of 
•In 1988-89, Saint Mary's re­
ceived a report of an attempted the crime to gather information 
In classifying rape by whether ceived one report of rape or at­
rape last April. and assist the victim. 
the victim knows the attacker tempted rape. 
Rakow explained that rape The dispatcher will then con­
or not, our society has reduced Reports of sex offenses num­
and attempted rape are classi­tact the St. Joseph County Po­
the frequency of reporting rape bered two in '87-88, and five in
fied at ND as Class I crimes lice, who have the primary
creating a very "dangerous '88-89.
along FBI classifications. Class jurisdiction on Saint Mary's
trend," according to ND In April of 1990 Saint Mary's
II crimes include other sex of­College campus. The police de­
Security Director Rex Rakow. security received an
fenses, "anything from inap­partment will then take over
On the national level, only anonymous phone call
propriate touching, indecent the investigation. 
one in ten rapes are reported, reporting a rape of a Saint 
exposure, abusive phone calls In the events of attempted
he said. Mary's student somewhere on
with sexual overtones, to ha­rape, sexual assault, and
This year, Security has re­Saint Mary's Road between the
rassment," he said. accosting, the Saint Mary's
ceived one report of an assault two campuses. However, the
In 1989, Security received 12 Security shift supervisor makes
and attempted rape after an in­rape was never formally
reports of sex offenses. the decision whether the inci­
cident on Easter Sunday in reported.
ND Security

Rakow noted that University dent merits notifying St. Joe­
which a Saint Mary's student Chlebek explained that Saint
statistics can be misleading for seph Police. "In almost all in­
was attacked. In 1989, ND Se­Mary's offers a Stranded Stu­
two reasons. First, he ex-stances, the police will be noti­
curity received no reports of dent Program in which stu­fied," according to the Securityrape or attempted rape, Rakow dents' left alone at an off-cam­
see NO I page 6 
said. pus residence who fear for their see SMC I page 6 


-~-------~-------­

page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Surfers are people too, dude 
The rude chill in my bones Monday morn­ing as I got out of bed made me long for those warm, sunny days I spent this sum­mer in San Diego. In those blissful three months, I experi-Scott Brutocao enced many firsts. 
I barbecued my first Assistant Sports Editor fish. I paid my first rent. I drank my first gimlet. But to top them all, I surfed my first wave. 
Now I know what you're thinking: He's a Californian, and you know what that means. When asked if I've ever surfed, I've always had to say "no," furtively blushing in unde­served shame. 
Well now I have, and let me tell you, surfers are smiling when people tease them. Sure, they say "dude," but a lot of people say "dude" and saying "dude" should notre­flect a thing about the character of a per­son. Yes, I say "dude," but so does my friend from New York. So do you, probably, dude. 
My friend from high school, Billy Kurnik, made a generous offer to take my brothers and me out to the surfer's paradise of San Onofre, where surfers share the coastline with a nuclear reactor. Nobody can claim that the reactor makes better waves, but it makes for great stories. This reactor can be seen on the movie "The Naked Gun," when Leslie Nielsen says that everything he sees makes him think of his past love. 
Anyway, San Onofre is an hour away from both San Diego and Industry Hills, so we met at the beach. This particular site is so popular among surfing devotees that often 
there is a line to get in. We got there at 9 
a.m. on a Saturday morning and waited an hour. But we were surfers, and we wanted the best, dude. 
"The waves are boomin!" said Billy, who had been out there for four hours. His "surfer" accent made "boomin'" sound like "bowman." "They're great," he said, which came out more like "They're grite." 
We nodded, and he took us out into the waves. He stood neck-high in the water and pushed the board so we would only have to paddle and stand up. Since I had two of my brothers with me, one 16 and one 10, he was out with us for several hours. 
He only came to the shore once, because he needed some "feebage" (food). 
The feeling of standing on a board, letting the w~ve propel you to t~e shore, and finally crashmg mto the breakmg froth is almost overwhelming. It's more of a rush than ski­ing, more exciting than jet skiing, and just plain "cooler" than alpine bobsledding (I've never water skied). 
Say what you want about "surfers" or Californians. I think it's admirable to love something so much as to make it part of your lifestyle, and indeed part of your per­sonal philosophy. If you make me general­ize, I'll say that surfers are some of the kindest, most generous and most genuine people I've ever met. 
Ihe-Obser:ver~ 
PO Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff: 

Sports News Dave Dieterman Joe Moody Scoreboard: Kevaleen Ryan Scott Brutocoa 
Accent Production Jennifer Guerin Beth Peterson Paige Smoron Christine Anderson Paul Pearson 
VIewpoint Ad Design Julie Shepherd Amy Eckert Kathy Welsh Kathleen O'Connor 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Fnday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Tuesday, September 18, 1990
The Observer 

,.---------------------­
WEATHER 
Yesterday's high: 63

®Forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 18. 
Yesterday's low: 42 Nation's high:1 03 
(Lake Havasu City an Yuma, Ariz.) Nation's low: 27 
(Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.) 
Forecast: Partly cloudy today with a chance of late afternoon showers. Highs in the upper 60s. Continued rain tonight with lows in the mid 50s. Scattered showers tomorrow with highs in the low 70s. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
OF INTEREST 
1990 Domes can be picked up this week during the afternoon at 311 LaFortune. Students must have an ID to get their yearbook. 
Information on career exploration programs will be available tonight from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge in Lemans Hall. Any St. Mary's juniors or seniors who will be in Chicago, Detroit, Washington D.C., St. Louis, South Bend, or the Twin Cities from Jan. 3-11 is eligible to pair with an alumni in a career in which she is interested. 
• WORLD
About 800 Indians marched into La Paz, 
Bolivia, Monday, ending a 470-mile trek to draw attention to their anguish over the deforestation of the Amazon rain forest where they reside. The Indians were greeted by tens of thousands of city residents who poured into the streets of La Paz to greet them. The Indians, including women and children, made the 32-day trek from the jungle lowlands to demand the return of 750,000 acres of land deeded to lumber companies. The march, which involves various small Indian tribes, has captured the attention of Bolivians by exposing the misery of the oft-neglected tribes from the isolated lowlands of interior Bolivia. 
NATIONAL 

Ted Danson, veteran to television comedy ac1cepted his Emmy 
Award for best lead actor in a comedy seri~s for his role in "Cheers" Sunday durmg the 42nd Annual Prime Time Emmy Awards. Other winners included Peter Falk for best dramatic actor, "L.A. Law" for best drama series and "Murphy Brown" for best comedy. 

Surprisingly, ABC's spooky Twin Peaks: which lead with 14 nominations, won only two techmcal .awar~s for editing and costuming. The ~erem~ny, Itself d~d not fare well in the ratings, losing to 
Amenca s Funmest Home Videos" and "Murder, She 
·~rote." 
INDIANA 

The Indiana Court of Appeals 
upheld on Monday a $1.2 million award to a Michigan woman whose husband was killed in a traffic accident when a co-worker turned in front of a truck. In a unanimous decision, the court let stand the St. Joseph Superior Court verdict in favor of Lori Marie DeMars, whose 26-year-old husband, Keith DeMars, died in the Oct. 17, 1984, accident on U.S. 31 near South Bend. DeMars, a resident of Spring Lake, Mich., was riding in a car driven by Alan Lutz of South Holland, Ill., when it was struck by a Specialized Commodities Services truck driven by Dennis Fosburgh of Knox. 
State Auditor Ann DeVore and two Republican lawmakers said Monday they will propose legislation allowing state government workers to set aside a tax-free portion of their 
income for child care, health insurance and related expenses. DeVore said the proposal, allowed by federal tax law since 1984, is being prepared for introduction in the 1991 session of the General Assembly. 
T~e P~ychology Club will hold its first ~eetmg tomght at 8 p.m. in the Haggar Auditorium to ~s~uss plans for the UJ?COn:ting year. All those psychology 
aJors, and those considermg a major in psychology are encouraged to attend. ' 
Artist Maria Henle will present a slide lecture on her work with New York's Printmaking Workshop tomorrow at 4 p.m. in the Cushwa Leighton Library media center at Saint Mary's.For more information, contact the department of art at 284-4631. 
A new police crackdown on black faction fighting amounts to a "license to kill" for security forces, African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela said Monday. He said the ANC's national executive committee would discuss police measures at an urgent meeting Tuesday and hinted it could call for supporters to arm themselves. President F.W. de Klerk said he would announce further measures this week intended to halt street clashes in black townships near Johannesburg that have killed almost 800 blacks since Aug. 12. No major township violence was reported over the weekend or Monday, police said. 
.Federal savings and loan bailout officials ~aid Mo.nday they.were c.anceling the much-promoted ~nter~atwnal satellite auctiOn of million-dollar properties mhented from bankrupt savings and loans. L. William Seidl_llan, chairman of the Resolution Trust Corp., said the aucti?n was. canceled after the Auction Company of Ame~I~a, which the a~ency had hired, did not contribute to a JOint fund promotmg the event. Jim Gall chairman of th~ Miami-based Auction Company of America, disputed Seid~an and ~cc~sed the bailout agency of bungling the auctiOn. He said his firm has spent nearly $2 million over fou! months to prepare for the event, about what it was 
obligated to spend. 
MARKET UPDATE 
NVSE Index 

174.62 •.47 S&P Composite 375.83 .oft 1.23 Dow Jones Industrials 2567.33 .. 3.22 
Precious Metals Gold +$4.20 to$ 389.40/oz. 
Sliver+ 1.9¢ to $ 4.766oz. 
Beer Dnnkers ol Amer~c<t E::ctucallo'l p,,·:ec' 




----~---­

Tuesday, September 18, 1990 
The Observer 
a e 3 
©®(fi)U®[[' ®U[['®®U

ilt:~·.l)~•.l)tt,a;!IIJ, -c·~ tiBU t=ttUHltt"CitJitr.Jt=rrt..:~·t~~ ·~OYC'To -'t.:: "C"i:UloADAPT "C"i; t,.: t;h0)1!:JL-~-~fJ<t;IIIJ T~. -t!:JL-~-~1!HIIU-t! ~ 1"-o <tiElt:?:// ~ /D.C c, U"'C1Jftiio ~·9 
~ WID ©@[jj)U@f15! U'4JQ®IJu@g[}!oo

tl.~ii:!J~~Jfll:~t..:-iB•fJ<-t:t:~L -c, l!tBMit:~ "I:> .I) A-, iDi~~rrt..:~·£ To ~t:t:-il*r JL-~'f:it, 301·~1!:JL-~-~fJ'1t4L1To ilftO>if~A-t=t-:>-ct:, £~t:t;iJt~lol~o E*fJ'<,iS<U n-c~t:ttt'", .::M..:c .::;;t:iailtn,-:>t:O>-c·-tno 
Adworks found at loss due to 'poor pricing strategies' 
The annual income reports of 
Dame student businesses 
aled a near $10,000 loss by 

which was covered by ._,.u,u.,,,.. Activities funds. 
Michael Kolar, general man­ager of the Student Business Board, told the Student Senate the loss was attributed to poor pricing strategies. Members said direct Senate intervention in Adwork's operations would be appropriate if Adworks continues to produce large losses. 
The Cellar reported a $1800 loss for the 1989/90 year. The proposal to replace the Cellar with a video store was tem­porarily delayed due to the Administration's recent decision to not allocate $9000 in funds to the store. Irish Gardens was the only business that reported a profit gain. 
The Senate also heard from Sam Nigro, a member of the Notre Dame Environmental Action Committee (EAC), pre­sented a slide show on the de­struction of the woods on the corner of Juniper and Douglas Roads. Nigro said the EAC's main objective is to have the Administration approve a pro­posal of a Notre Dame wildlife park, which would protect the existing woods from future con­struction projects. 
Finally, the SUB Officers' re­port stated the service commis­sion will conduct the Michigan State University ticket lottery today at Stepan Center from 6 to 8 p.m. Tickets will be dis­tributed on Sept. 20. Tickets are $18.00 a piece and two tickets are allowed per winner. 
Malloy 
Special to The Observer 
Flag burning, censorship of art, liberal arts vs. technological research ­how do universities use past wisdom to address modern quandaries? 
The "Colloquy in Honor of John Henry Newman" on Sept. 21 at Michigan State University will look to a Victorian cleric and man of letters for some contemporary guidelines. 
The event at the MSU Kellogg Center for Continuing Education is expected to attract higher education faculty mem­bers and administrators, student life directors and campus ministry staffs. 
The day will conclude with a banquet and a 
7:30 p.m. Presidents' Panel which will explore Newman's "Idea of a 
•

1n 'Colloquy' panel 
University" as a guide for academic administrators. 
Panel members are presidents John DiBiaggio, MSU; the Fa­ther Edward Malloy, University of Notre Dame; and Robert Mitchell, the University of Detroit. 
Also participating are former MSU presidents Walter Adams and Cecil Mackey. Panel moderator will be MSU Provost David Scott. 
The 9:45 a.m. keynote address, "John Henry Newman on the Duty of an Educated Free Con­science," will be delivered by internationally-known scholar Katherine Tillman, associate professor of liberal stud­ies at Notre Dame. 
Newman, whose life spanned most of the 19th century, was an author, a university professor and a Church of England cleric who converted to Roman Catholicism and rose to the cardinalate. 
His books are classics that still give convincing solutions to educational, psychological and philo­sophical problems, said MSU historian William Schoen!, a colloquy planner. 
"Newman was one of those rare men for all ages," Schoen! said. "He cannot be confined to one field. His 'Idea of a University' is still regarded as a leading work on the value of a liberal education." 
Afternoon consecutive workshops are: "Newman's Writing and Beliefs," chaired by English professor John Griffen, University of Southern Colorado. 

By RENEE YOUNG 
News Writer 
The integration of the intel­lectual life and the social life was one of the topics discussed last night in the first of a series of "The Life of the Mind Lec­tures." 
The key speaker, Dorothy Feigl, vice-president and dean of faculty of Saint Mary's ad­dressed the issue "Life of the Mind: Are We Having Fun Yet?" 
The lecture opened with an overview of the project The Saint Mary's Woman: Toward Intellectual Leadership, whose goal is to join faculty and stu­dents together in intellectual development and carry what is learned in the classroom to in­formal discussions. 
The project is supported by the Lilly Endowment and the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (FIPSE). FIPSE, an agency of the United States Department of Education, allotted funds to Saint Mary's for the following purposes: 
•to encourage a vital and di­verse student, 
•to promote a community that 
U.S.A.~ ~ 7--Washington D.C. 
'90.11.10(SAT) 11 (SUN) 
TOKYO~~ 7­
'90.12.27(THU) 

et.~ 7"-F'l3e U.S.A. t ~ 7"-/f-]30U, TOKYO t ~ 1"-/f-]50 UL7lil!BJl~. 111lll1Jiiljji * 1U~f:IJ3()$l-.JM:<7J1JIIlllflii*, ;1;J:U13fll iiliMc·L7Jii!ifl'>c~!ifi l l. To 
ettae *""'it:l;!<~'>cl992~61l 1 TI:~(Bachelor ~..Ll:L7l ~~}7:iEL7l~~••m• •1Jo~U4o ~;f. c·L7Jttll'***':i6i.l1 U.S.A t ~ T-/ 500fJL-:lc1i:.'lOO:'f:ito TOKYO t~1"-/12/li58~..1J41:B*J:\II 
002<:tt~7JT~f.l'I991~~..1J4L7l7JI1500 ~ iv l c·o 12/li48~.J.foJI:\II 002<:tt~7J. H:l;i:l!i¥<7J7JI;I:00f';J')EDI: L. c 27JF'll. ""(·~·Da'f lEo (ttJlL7Jffil~]iJti:'R IJ l To 5' 7:---, 1J'Y 1} /j"\::W1;1:~1-I:t.,: 
U.S.A. t~7"-/101l88(,EJ} 
TOKYO t~1"-/ll/ll28(1l) 
would be connected to, but not completely dependent on, the faculty and 
•to establish a community that would join Saint Mary's students to other intellectual communities, including alumni and students of other cam­puses. 
Patrick White, the project director and associate dean of faculty, opened the lecture by recognizing resident advisors, the Student Academic Council, Student Government, and par­ticipating faculty as leaders in­strumental to the project. 
Drawing on personal ex­periences from her own college life, Feigl unmasked the ulti­mate question of "Are We Hav­ing Fun Yet?" According to her, if you can't answer yes, you need to change something in your life. She encouraged students and faculty to respond to internal drive instead of ex­ternal pressure and look at classes as interesting instead of asking 'will this be on the exam?' 
She indicated as her final wish to students and faculty a hope that they had found the right match of person to place in order to contribute and grow in thf> life of the mind. 

*hfllli6i'>~lt1iltif. I.M<t..:iH;!;'->:rrt..: -:>1: 7 ;tccfio1"iJ\L7l~DH:!:l 
l.T. 

ei>~o?-tte ~iTI;I:, t ~ 1"-L7lllf.l'11illJIJT:JNI!L7lJl:il<t ~ 1"-tli«fll 
cl'l.T. n~l:i?Ml•il"t:>-ttT2<l•. ;I;;EJ'lr.ll: New Yori<, Los Angeles II ,Ej <t>'Ol'f:it 1!!~!/,J<Jl. ffi;il· ~iii (Jitiil:~±) 
New York 9.'22(±}23( 8 }. Boston 9/25(;k}26(7l<.) 
Ch1cago 9/28(it), San Francisco 9/29( ±}30( 8} 
l!!~/M · ;t-tll3 · >t!!f.ll · ':kill · ilill (Jt.~~il 
et;lfl Libh. ~;r.,c'il"b-tte $1:~±-t!IL--"'-~ (U~i} ~illi1L1UJ.Sil 
TEL.I-800-537-2186 l.t:l;l: 03-234-5071 
("!'"89:oo.m~s:oo'"" 8~r.,l l!!~/U · ;t-tll3 · >t!!foll ·':kill · itill 
1!11--"'-~ U.S.A. New York Office 
TEL.I-800-344-7241 H:l;l: 212-986-5520 
("1'"89:oo.,.-5:oo'"" NY Time}l!!~/iiJII 


W®@J[Ji)®®@JEIDW ©®rnru@@Jw OO~®rfil~ 
3 comedians nightly 
1/2 Price Admission Wednesday -Saturday with College 1.0. 

Concert Hotline 256-0710 
'Growing in the life of the mind' discussed at lecture 


--~~  - -­ 
~-.-----------------------­ 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, September 18, 1990 
Walesa says he will run for president of Poland 

WARSAW, Poland (AP) ­Solidarity leader Lech Walesa said Monday he will run for president of Poland, a job now held by the general who once imprisoned him and sought to crush his labor union under martial law. 
Walesa said he hoped to speed the nation's transition from communism to democracy. 
"Today I made up my mind. I am putting forward for society's approval my readiness to be a candidate for the post of president of the Polish Republic in popular elections," Walesa said in a statement delivered from his desk at Solidarity headquarters in Gdansk. 
"For me, it is a fulfillment of the pledge I made in August 1980," he said, when he catapulted to worldwide fame by leading strikes that helped create the East bloc's first independent trade union. 
Post-Communist Poland's first fully democratic presidential and parliament elections are expected as early as this fall and no later than spring. 
adviser he picked to be the

Walesa has hinted at his have to be president." 
East bloc's first non­

presidential intentions for Walesa, a 46-year-old 
Communist government

nearly a year, saying he needs shipyard electrician who was 
leader. Walesa charges that

to take the post to spur awarded the Nobel Peace 
too many supporters of the old 

political and economic re­Prize in 1983, has split with 
regime remain in key

forms. In June he said: "I do Prime Minister Tadeusz Ma­
government and state industry 

not want to be president. I will zowiecki, the former close 

Polish Solidarity leader Lech Walesa is shown here with his wife Denuta. Walesa announced that he will run for president of Poland. Walesa hopes to bring his country through the change of communism to democracy. 
Aquino wants U.S. forces 'out' 
Ph"l" · (AP)MANILA
• Ilppmes ­
President Corazon Aquino said Monday it was time to discuss the "orderly withdrawal" of U S forces from the Phl.li"p
· · ­
pines, her first public appeal to phase out the American mili­tary bases. 
Police clashed with hundreds of demonstrators who de­manded that the Americans go home At least 17 People were
· 
arrested and seven people were injured in two anti-bases rallies outside the U.S. Embassy. 
U.S. and Philippine negotia­tors open a second round of talks Tuesday on the future of Clark Air Base, Subic Bay naval base and four smaller U.S. in-
h 1 · 
stall t. ease expires
a wns w ose in September 1991. 
State Department spokesman 
Richard Boucher said the United States wants to keep its bases. 
"We hope that any new agreement will include provi­sions for a continuing defense relationship, including U.S. ac­cess to Philippine military facil­ities," he said in Washington. 

The installations are among 
the largest American bases on foreign soil. "In a world where the Cold 
War has ended, and events in Eastern Europe and the Middle East have altered the tradi­tiona! geopolitical order, the decades-old parameters of the (Philippine-U.S.) relationship no longer hold," Aquino said. 
"The old cannot continue·, the new must now be born," she added. "This new relationship shall be the subject of the talks that begin tomorrow." Rafael Alunan, the spokesman of the Philippine panel, said Manila wanted the talks "to restructure our rela­
tions to cover a broad range of 
concerns." 
"For us, there is more to life 
than security matters, and that is what we have to impress upon them," Alunan said. 
Aquino also noted that a gov­ernment panel is working on plans to convert the bases into civilian use. The panel is ex­pected to finish its report next month. 
Any new agreement must be
approved by two-thirds of the 
23_member Philippine Senate, where opposition to the facili­ties is strong. 
U.S. troops have been re­
stricted to their bases to pre­vent attacks by Communist rebels. In May, two American airmen were killed outside Clark on the eve of the first round of talks. 
Early Monday, about 350 
protesters marched to the U.S. Embassy but were driven away by police after some in the crowd hurled small bombs. A judge and two policemen were injured and three demonstra­tors were arrested. 
Later, about 1,000 protesters 
returned, but police again blocked their march about 200 Yards from the embassy. At 
least 14 more were arrested and at least three demonstra­tors and a policeman were has­pitalized for blast wounds. 
Col. Ricardo Reyes, Manila police operations chief, said the demonstrators provoked the t•econd clash when they tried to 
The two sides agreed during l,.••••••••••••••b•re•a•k•t•h•e•p•o•l•ic•e•l•in•e•.••..
the opening round in May to continue talks on a new U.S.­Philippine security agreement. Opposition to the bases is 
growing among Filipinos who 
consider them an infringement on national sovereignty. 
On the eve of the talks, Aquino said in a nationally tele­vised address that the negotia­tions will redefine relations between the United States and this former American colony. 
"It is now necessary for our government to work with the United States for arrangements regarding the orderly with­drawal of their forces from our country," she said. 
Last Friday, The Washington Post reported that U.S. nego­tiators will offer to close the bases over 10 years. 
Manila newspapers reported last month that the Philippines will propose that Clark Air Base and other facilities be 
closed next year in return for allowing the Americans to keep Subic for 10 years. 
U.S. officials said the 40,000 American troops, Defense De­partment civilians and military dependents will remain as long as they are wanted. 
• 

___ .___
THE POINTE 
~~ 

A T S A I N T J 0 S E P f! 
---­
AnliNTION GRADUATE STUDENTS: 1 bedroom apartments starting at $445­2 bedroom apartments starting at $550­
Everything you are looking for in a luxury apartment: 
Full size washer & dryer Fully equipped party room Wall to wall carpeting and full kitchen 
Floor to ceiling bay windows Outdoor pool and sun deck Heated, covered parking Exercise room 
Ceramic tiled baths Tennis courts 
Convenient bus transportation to Notre Dame 
287-2684 
9-6 pm Mon -Fri .1D-5 pm Sat 11-5 pm Sun 
JA~artnlen~ 1,hat Stand t\ ·p ·a . r .t rrom the nest 
posts and that the Mazowiecki government is losing touch with Poles' problems. 
Two camps -the beginning of a multi-party system after four decades of Communist control -have developed from the political feud. One, the Center Alliance, supports Walesa for president and is identified with workers and the Solidarity union in Gdansk. The other, known by the acronym ROAD, backs Mazowiecki and is associated with intellectuals and the government in Warsaw. 
Mazowiecki, who points to the initial successes of his shock economic reform plan and a host of other changes, has not announced whether he will run for president. 
Walesa has overwhelming recognition in Poland as the leader of the battle that toppled the Communist regime and sparked Eastern Europe's democratic revolution. Recent opinion polls have put his approval rating slightly below Ma­zowiecki's, but his influence remains unmatched. 
ND Mock Trial Association 
Open to all Notre Dame Undergraduates 
Organizational Meeting: Wednesday, September 19th 7:00pm, Sorin Room in LaFortune 
If you can't make the meeting, contact: Mike Moreland x1827 Amy Cashore x2562 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents Catholic University's National Players performing THE TAMING OF THE SHREW 

Wednesday Sept. 19 thru Saturday, Sept 22 8:10pm 
l Sunday, Sept. 23 3:10pm 
Washington Hall 
Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office $7 $5 Stu./ Sen. Cit.~ Wed., Thu., Sun. 
Master Card/ Visa orders call 239-8128 





CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY,. 
*C. B.S. 
Ecumenical Bible Study Tuesday, Sept. 18, 1990 and every Tuesday 

ALL MARRIED STUDEN1S, FACULlY AND STAFF ARE INVITED TO: 
Meetings: 7:00 PM. TAKE SOME TIME TO ENRICH YOUR MARRIAGE one hour sessions ina (bring your own Bible)
-Marriage Enrichment Program from Campus Ministry 
in the Conference Room 

Using the ENRICH Inventory, couples look at areas ot your marriage: Communication, Resolving Conflict, Finances, Children and Parenting, of Families and Friends, Sexuality, Religion in:·.o?f~l;--y ~: ~~c,:;e Don1a and discuss issues of similar and different perspective. Campus Ministry 
'<J;:e :_,~:;~.e tli 455 56 Badin Hall
This is a two-session program. Each session will be offered twice. In Session I couples will take the inventory. In Session II couples will receive the results. 

Directed by: Fr. Al D'Alonzo, C.S.C. 
This program is facilitated by Mrs. Tracey Sandman, Director of 
For additional information call:

Marriage Preparation & Enrichment for Campus Ministry. 
239-6633 or 239-5955 

• Session I will be offered Wednesday. September 19, 7:30-9:00 pm 
and Sunday, September 23, 2:00-3:30 pm (Childcare Is available on Sunday afternoon; please request It when you register.) 
Graduate Students, Undergraduate Students, 
Pre-registration is necessary. 
International Students and

There is a $10 processing fee per couple. (Fee does not apply to students.) 
Members of the Notre Dame Family

Call Campus Ministry at 239-5242 to register by September li\. 
invited to attend 

For further information, please call Tracey Sandman -239·5242. 

week-end presiders at Sacred Heart Church: changed from Master listing of September 22, 23, as follows: (lMPUS 
saturday September 22, 5PM Rev. James McDonald, c.s.c.
MINISTRY 

sunday, september 23, lOAM Rev. Claude Grou, c.s.c. 
Superior General, congregation of Holy Cross 

11:45 AM Rev. Joseph Ross, c.s.c. 
want to be on National TV? 
on September 20, 1990, 2:30 PM
Eucharistic Ministers 
Live interactive Video conference: "Related, Roommated: Peered and Paired"
Workshop 
Give campus Ministry a call at 239-7800 and reserve a place for the live viewing. 
GRADUATE STUDENT STUDY BREAK
Tuesday, September 18th, lO:OOpm 
TUESDAY NIGHTS 9 -9:30 pm -103 HESBURGH LIBRARY
Sacred Heart Church 
come out of your carrels and enjoy conversations, rendevous, coffee and snacks in the Campus Ministry office. 





-----------~-----·-­
Tuesday, September 18, 1990 
AP Photo
Tanker Fire 

The tanker Jupiter burned on the Saginaw River just north of downtown Bay City, Mich. Sunday. Of the 18 crew members aboard, several are injured and some are missing. 
The Observer 

Obesity discussed 
Donley talks on eating disorders 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN News Writer 

A person with an eating dis­order cannot be forced to seek help, according to Rita Donley, assistant director of the Uni­versity Counseling Center. 
In her Monday presentation, "How to help a friend with an eating disorder," Donley stressed the importance of gathering concrete information of an individual's illness before confronting he or she with the problem. 
Certain tell-tale signs of unususal eating rituals, obses­sion with food, refusal to main­tain proper weight, excessive exercise and depression should be indicators that a person needs help. 
Donley said that the first step towards a victim's recovery is for he or she to be confronted with the actual problem. "Each time the ailed person is forced to admit that there is a prob­lem, a breaking down of the wall of denial occurs." 
However, the victim has to choose whether or not to seek the proper help. Donley said, "it's the responsibility of that person to assume control of his or her behavior." 
"The most important role a friend can take is to be sup­portive of whatever decision the anorexic or bulimic individual may make. If the individual de­cides not to seek help, be sup­portive of the other aspects of his or her life. An eating disor­der is only part of the individ­ual. Make the individual realize that they are more than just their body." 
If a victim is willing to seek help, the University Counseling Center is located on the third floor of the infirmary. Whether the individual calls or· stops by, help will begin at once through counseling by one of the staff members. Those closely associ­ated with the victim are also encouraged to seek help for themselves, because an eating disorder can affect the lives of those around the victim. Infor­mation relating to eating dis­orders can be sought at the counseling office and all meet­ings are completely confiden­tial. 
Donley pointed out eating disorders prevalent at Notre Dame. In the spring of 1988, a survey was sent out by the counseling department to 2,229 students in regards to personal eating disorders. Of the 97 5 students who responded, twenty-one percent of those students surveyed said they suffered from some ailment related to an eating disorder. Bulimia was the most frequented response. 
Donley emphasized that vic­tims need to be told that their lives can be better, although sometimes is is difficult to con­vince the sufferer. She com­pared having an eating disorder to being in the middle of the ocean, holding on to a life pre­server, and not knowing how to 
swim. 
"A person will clutch the life preserver hoping that it will sustain her and give her the strength to survive in the water. A person with an eating disorder clutches her disease, using"it as a control mechanism to stuff other feelings that she may be experiencing." 
page 5 
SECURITY BEAT 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT.12 
3:21 p.rrt. A university employee re­ported damage to the passenger side door of his car while it had been parked in the C2 parking lot. 7 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his season football tickets from the Fitzpatrick HaU of Engineer· 
ing. 
10:15 p.m. Aresident of Knott Hall re· ported that she had received a ha· rassing phone call. 
THURSDAY, SEPT.13 
12:05 a.m. Aresident of Lewis Hall re· ported that she received an obscene phone call. 4:33a.m. The hall monitor from Howard Hall reported damage to the telephone outside of the dorm. 11 a.m. Aresident of Walsh Hall re­ported that she was attacked by a male while she was jogging around St. Joseph's Lake. 
2:45 p.m. Aresident of Alumni re­ported the theft of his football tickets. 
FRIDAY, SEPT.14 
12 p.m. A resident of Grace Hall re­ported that his football tickets and two books were stolen from the lobby of the Hammes Bookstore. 
SATURDAY, SEPT.15 
1 a.m. A resident of Howard Hall re­ported the loss of a gold ring between Senior-Alumni Club and Howard Hall. 
6:36 a.m. A Notre Dame employee re­ported vandalism to a windoW ot the Lewis Bus shelter. 
11:30 a.m. Aresident of St.EdWard's Hall reported the theft of his football tickets 1rom his top desk drawer. .~:13 p.m. A resident of St. Joseph's 
)'Hall reported the theft of his bookbag 
·" from the law school. 5 p.m. A resident of tninois reported vandalism to his car In the WNDU parking Jot between 11 a.m. and 3 
p.m. Apurse was stolen from the front seat of the car. 
SUNDAY, SEPT.16 
11 :30 a.m. Aresident of Missouri re· ported vandalism and the theft of Items trom his car between 6:15p.m., Sept. 15 and 12:30 p.m., Sept. 16 from Blue Field. 
2:40 p.m. Aresident of Stanford Hall reported the theft of football tickets from his desk drawer at 1:30 p.m. on Sept 15. 
page 6 
ND 
continued from page 1 
plained that statistics only rep­resent those incidents which are reported, which can make numbers seem low. Victims may opt to report incidents that oc­cur off-campus to local police rather than ND Security, or they may not report them at all, said Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. 
Secondly, because attempts and actual crimes are reported in the same category, incidents which are not criminal viola­tions boost statistics higher than they would be if restricted to completed offenses only. 
The procedures followed by Security when a rape is re­ported have also been affected by the dual classifications of rape. When a victim contacts Security about a rape or at­tempted rape involving an un­known attacker, Security im­mediately begins investigating the incident to determine the attacker's identity and secure public safety, said Rakow. 
But cases of acquaintance rape are usually reported to Student Affairs, since the iden­tity of the attacker is named in the complaint. The investiga­tion is handled by Student Af­fairs, and Security's involve­ment is only through interview­ing the victim, suspect, or wit­nesses when requested, Rakow said. 
Should an acquaintance rape be reported to Security, and the victim wanted to press criminal charges, Security would inves­tigate the report as a criminal investigation, he said. 
"If it's a sexual assault, what we want to do first of all is to make sure they [the victim] get proper medical treatment," said Hurley. The victim is transported to St. Joseph's Hospital to be examined by the medical staff "as soon as pos­sible after the offense occurs," he said. 
Security will have victims ex­amined even if the report comes a few davs after the incident. However: after a week has elapsed, a medical examination might not be as useful for investigative purposes, Hurley said. 
Investigation of the report begins with uniformed Security officers securing the scene for evidence. After Security admin­istration [Rakow, Hurley, or Phil Johnson, assistant director] are briefed on the case, Student Affairs is contacted, "just to make them aware that we have an incident," Rakow said. 
Public Relations and Infor­mation are also contacted, and Director Dick Conklin gathers information to make available to the public via a news release. 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
department's general order on the subject of rape and sexual assaults. 
In cases of rape, the dis­patcher will notify the Director of Security, Dean of Student Affairs and/or the Director of Residence Ufe. In all cases, the Director of Security is notified. 
The Director of Security is responsible for contacting the Director of Public Relations or a public relations officer. As is the case at ND, confidentiality is applied in the investigation. 
Saint Mary's procedure for rapes committed off-campus involves notifying the law en­forcement agency which has jurisdiction in the area of the offense. 
Again, the entire case is coded for confidentiality, to en­sure that unauthorized person­nel do not access the reports and to protect the victim. 

News releases are made only in cases where the attacker is unknown "so that the public is made aware of incidents that could affect their safety," ac­cording to Hurley. Since a re­port of an acquaintance rape identifies the attacker, no re­lease is made, he said. 
Also, Hurley stressed that in all cases, with the exception of a homicide accompanying the rape, the identity of the victim is not released. 
Reports of acquaintance rape are publicized only if criminal charges are filed, and the in­formation becomes public record, Hurley said. But Rakow added that such a policy on re­leasing information can be mis­leading. "Because there's not a public statement on the heels of these incidents doesn't mean it [acquaintance rape] doesn't happen," he said. 
Information about acquain­tance rape cases is confidential due to University policy regard­ing cases involving students. According to Rakow, victims are advised by Student Affairs that they have the right to file criminal charges. 
He said that he could recall only one instance in the past in which a victim pressed charges after going through Student Affairs proceedings, what he calls an "indication of them be­ing satisfied with the results in Student Affairs action. 

AP Photo

Child rescued 
An emergency worker guides the stretcher carrying 20-month-old Kevin Davis as he is taken to the am­bulance early Sunday. He was trapped in a foundation hole in his parent's home in Denver for 14 hours. 

We're Conoco, the Hottest Brand Going. And if you're a Business Major, have we got a date for you. On Thursday, September 20, 1990, from 7-9 p.m., we'll be hosting a Conoco General Information session in the Upper Lounge­University Club, and we'd like to meet you. Come find out about the career opportunities at Conoco. And we'll he back on campus to interview on October 31 & November I. So, mark these dates; it could be the beginning of a very hot future. 
Conoco IS commg September 20, 1990! 
(conoco) 
A Du Pont Subsidiary 



Tuesday, September 18, 1990 
'Don't let independence boil over,' says Reagan 
MOSCOW (AP) -Ronald Reagan, visiting the Soviet Union for the first time since leaving the White House, on Monday cautioned the 15 fractious republics against let­ting their passion for independence boil over. 
The former president, speaking to lawmakers in the Supreme Soviet parliament, recalled the "wrenching and terrible" Civil War fought by American states over their division of powers with Wash­ington. 
"As you find a reformulation of the relationships in your union you will find there is a period of uncertainty and tension," he told the parliament's international committee. 
"Differences can be resolved 
in ways that are fair to all, but 
reason must prevail over 
passion if there is to be a 
climate conducive to the 
settlement of disagreements." 

Russian masses protest 
AP Photo Some 50,000 people marchea across the Krimsky bridge to the center of Moscow Sunday to express their lack of trust to the 
Soviet Government. 
President Mikhail Gorbachev is trying to negotiate a new treaty giving more autonomy to the Soviet Union's ethnically and geographically_ diverse republics. But 13 of them have already have declared some form of independence or sovereignty, in which their laws would take precedence over national laws. 
Reagan and his wife, Nancy, arrived in the Soviet Union in Leningrad on Sunday, the start of a five-day visit proposed by Gorbachev when they last met in San Francisco in June. The two men greeted one another Monday with a warm embrace, and· Gorbachev praised Reagan's contribution toward better superpower relations prospects for continued cooperation between the Soviet Union and the United States. 

Sentence impending 
AP Photo 

Cult leader Jeffrey Lundgren, tlanKed by two deputy sheriffs, waits in an elevator before beginning the sentencing phase of his trial in Lake County Common Pleas Court. Lundgren, convicted of five counts each of aggravated murder and kidnapping in the Dennis Avery family, could face the death penalty. 
46th U.N. 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­The 45th U.N. General Assembly convenes this week for its first post-Cold War session, which is expected to be dominated by the Persian Gulf crisis and economiC de­velopment, debt and the environment. 
The assembly begins Tuesday in an atmosphere of unprecedented harmony due to improved U.S.-Soviet relations and cooperation among the five permanent members of the Security Council: the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain, China and France. 
The annual general debate and speeches by world leaders begin Monday, Sept. 24, when President Bush addresses the 159-nation assembly. He will be followed by 27 heads of state, 18 prime ministers and more than 100 foreign minis­ters who will discuss world problems and conduct intensive behind-the-scenes diplomacy. 
The assembly convenes at a time when the prestige of the organization never has been higher, because of a series of tough Security Council resolutions condemning Iraq's occupation of Kuwait and imposing a worldwide trade embargo against Iraq. 

"This is the first post-Cold War General Assembly," said Ronald Spiers, undersecretary-general for political and General Assembly affairs. 
Mike "RICH" Richardson is 21 and ready! Stop by 309 Morrissey to find out 


We love you Richie! Love and wet kisses, O.B., Beef, Jeffie, Ole T., Barb, and all your other fans 
convenes 
The assembly, often likened to a global town meeting, cannot adopt legally binding resolutions, as can the Security Council. But its in­creasingly unified voice carries considerable weight as an expression of will of the international community. 
On Tuesday, the assembly is expected to elect as its president by acclamation Guido de Marco, deputy prime minister of Malta and its foreign minister. The position rotates among regional groups each year. It is largely ceremonial but the president has power to arrange the agenda and mediate among various interest groups. 
The session will admit Liechtenstein as the 160th 
U.N. 
member, but the reunification of East and West Germany on Oct. 3 and its membership with a single 

U.N. 
seat will keep the membership at 159. 


The Cambodian seat, previously held by the anti­Vietnamese coalition of Democratic Kampuchia, will be filled by the Supreme Na­tional Council of four Cambodian parties under a recent agreement. Details of a Cambodia settlement and U.N. administration remain to be worked out. 
Corrections 
Several points attributed to Eileen Kolman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, in a Monday Observer story about the Year of Women were incor­rect. 
When Kolman spoke about future choices for women, she said that some recent national studies have shown that female college students are much more aware that they have to make choices in order to balance marriage, a career and a family. However, she said, males 
may not be as aware of the 
choices. She did not imply 
that a male would consider 
his family an infringement. 
In addition, Kolman was 
misquoted. She did not say 
that "at every Sunday mass, 
Catholics recite the 'Our 
Father.' "She said that when 
Catholics pray, "we ought 
not always envision God as 
male." 
In a story in the Business section of Monday's Observer, an error in a press release caused an misidenti­fication. Marshall Loeb was incorrectly identified; he is the managing editor of Fortune magazine. 
In a story in Monday's Observer about a new animal rights group, CHEETA mem­ber Lia Klinkhamer was in­correctly identified. She is a groundskeeper at Saint Mary's College. 


The Observer 
Zulu regiments, estimated at 15,000, from hostels near Johannesburg marched Sunday to be ad­dressed by their king. These hostels are a stronghold of the Zulu lnkatha movement and have been a focal point of the faction fighting that has killed more than 700 people in a month. 

3. Get fired up BIG GUNS! NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & PURDUE PURDUE PURDUE 
SMC FRESHMEN 2.Here we go, here we go..... STANFORD CALL 273-1364 I need 5 stud tickets!I! Election Information Meeting 1.11ick every1hing.-J.S. CALL JULIE x4859
Class 

*** ••• *** *"'* continued from page 12 In order to run. you must WILL-BIGGEST AND BEST TRIP OF YOUR attend one! II CONGRATS ON MAKING N.D. CAREER? NO vs USC -CALL TRAVEL FREEl! $UN $P!...J\Si: LACROSSE! YOU KNOW YOU'LL 239-7308 
Tonight 7-Bpm in 304 Haggar HOW COULD YOU MISS THE 
PLEASE HELPII need 4 Miami tix, HEY YO, WE'RE TALKING TO YOU!!! HAVE A FAN CHEERING FOR 

stud or GA-call Amy at 3757 or WE KNOW YOU WANT TO GO YOU ... IT'S DISNEYLAND'S 35th

Peggy 3831. 

HOME A DAY EARLY AND SEE 'ME ANNIVERSARY! VISIT MICKEY. YOUR HTH (OR MOMMY AND MINNIE & THE GANG. CALl . .!39-7308.
I need tickets for all home games! 

DADDY) AT FALL BREAK. SO SELL HAPPY BIRTHDAY TOM SESSI!!! 
Student or GA. Call Joe US YOUR FREAKIN' MIAMI EVEN THOUGH YOU'RE A SLOB ATTENTION THRILL SFC:KERS: VISITX16BB Monday-Thursday TICKETS!!! WE'LL PAY BIG BUCKS! II AND POSESS THE SEXUAL UNIVERSAL STUDIOS, KNOTI'S 

3:30-6:3~ PM _ 

CALL MIKE OR CHRIS AT X 1779. CONTROL OF A BABOON, YOU'RE BERRY FARM, & SIX FLAG'S MAGIC STILL ONE HELLUVA GUY. SUCK MOUNTAIN! CALL 239-7308. •••ENGINEERS IN LONDON ••• 'EM UP TONIGHT! 
TOP 1 0 QUOTES BACKGAMMm< PARTNER NEEDED
PERSONALS 

10. 18 post cartes 10 francs. $5 HAIRCUTS!!!! 233-3059 JERRY 
9. I can't believe I just threw up on the REGULAR & ROTC 
hiag 

table.-M.P.(B.C.) HAPPY 21st, KAITLYN 
B. Thais a keeper! VITO'S BARBERSHOP Tonight's the night-
CALL SAFEWALK FOR AN 

7. Kaaate Scootttt 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST Wild Turkey, 151, and lots of
ESCORT ON CAMPUS... 

6. NOT! SOUTH BEND "blue-goggling"ll
EVERY NIGHT BPM-2AM 5. Sorry, coffee's extra. Just remember who your true friends

CALL 283-BLUE 4. Now which side of the road 233-4767 are tonight. do I drive on?-J.P. 

INDUSTRY DAY COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
SEPTEMBER 19th 
Representatives from the following companies will attend the CAREER FAIR and BANQUET: 
ABB COMBUSTION ENGINEERING G.M., SAGINAW DIVISION AIR PRODUCTS AND CHEMICALS, INC. G.M., HARRISON RADIATORS AMOCO OIL COMPANY G.M., HYDRA-MATIC ANDERSEN CONSULTING IBM AT&T BELL LABORATORIES ICF INCORPORATED BAILEY CONTROLS ICI AMERICAS INC. BOEING CORPORATION INDIANA BELL BRUNSWICK MARINE POWER LANTE CORPORATION
i 
I CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY MERCK PHARMACEUTICAL 
DELCO ELECTRONICS CORPORATION MANUFACTURING DIVISION f THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY MILLIKEN AND COMPANYI 1. DOW CORNING MONSANTO CHEMICAL CO. 
Ell LILY AND COMPANY NAVAL AVIONICS CENTER 
ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS PRICE WATERHOUSE EXXON PROCTER & GAMBLE FORD MOTOR COMPANY 
ROHM & HAAS COMPANY FRITO LAY 
TELLABS, INC. GENERAL ELECTRIC 
THE TRAVELERS GENERAL MILLS, INC. 
UNION CARBIDE INDUSTRIAL GASES INC., LINDE DIVISION 
Opportunities for full time employment and summer internships 
Bring your resumes! 
Sponsored by Joint Engineering Council and Society of Women Engineers 
Dear Sid and Mark-Is the only reason you take us to the Hacienda because of the student discount? We'd hate to think you guys are cheap.-Brlmette and Angie 


Tuesday, September 18, 1990 The Observer page 9 
Shuttle launch canceled due to hydrogen buildup 

Barry will not be retried on the dozen remaining charges 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -A buildup of hydrogen in the engine compartment Monday caused NASA to cancel a fourth attempt at launching the space shuttle Columbia on a long astronomy mission. 
The excess hydrogen appeared a few minutes after hydrogen began flowing into the tank at a "fast fill" rate of 8,400 gallons per minute ­the same point where buildup caused NASA to cancel two previous launches. 
Engineers waited a few minutes in case the leak of flammable hydrogen stabilized, but then launch director Bob Sieck called a halt to the attempt. At one point, the buildup was more than triple NASA's limit. 
The shuttle was to have been launched at 1:28 a.m. EDT Thesday. 
No new launch date was set immediately. "I'm not optimistic we'll find 
WASHINGTON (AP) -the U.S. attorney's decision Federal prosecutors said was announced. Monday they will not retry Barry, who was convicted of Mayor Marion Barry on the a single misdemeanor drug-dozen drug and perjury possession charge and charges a jury could not acquitted of another at the resolve, bringing the long trial, still faces sentencing. legal battle between the After declaring he would not mayor and the government seek reelection as mayor, he is near a close. now running for the city 
The charges, on which council. jurors had declared During a five-minute court themselves deadlocked at the hearing, Assistant U.S. end of Barry's trial last month, Attorney Judith Retchin said include one involving an FBI simply, "The government has videotape of the mayor made a determination not to smoking crack cocaine. seek retrial on the pending 
''I'm obviously relieved at counts." U.S. District Court this phase of the legal Judge Thomas Jackson then proceedings," Barry said after set a sentencing date for Oct. 

Start with an invigorating workoutthat tests your intel­ligence, energy, communication skills and ability to thrive on your own or as ateam player. Reach farther than you had imagined, across busmess diSCiplines and corporate/product divisions. Let your flexibility and openness to change expand your opportun1t1es with Whirlpool Corporation, adynamic, international growth business. 
Known the world over for quality home and commer­cial appliances, we market products 1n the U.S. under brand names Whirlpool~ KitchenAid~ and Rope~ We also make products under the Kenmore00 brand for Sears. We stake our future on improved quality and cost, extended product lines and bold, new marketing strategies -the products of individual commitment and creativity. Ongoing. Long-term. 
The Whirlpool challenge offers talented people free­dom to explore new methods and standards, set new goals and express innovative.ideas; it also carries responsibility to support the success and growth of others. 
Our corporate culture encourages teamwork, open communication and asense of personal respons1b1l· ity to customers, the community and the global envi· ronment. With an anttude of stewardship, Whirlpool is at home around the world. 
We anract and challenge and develop unique, highly­1motivated men and women. You can be proud to come 
aboard in one of the following areas: 
Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering 
We offer excellent benefits, including up to 100%tui­tion reimbursement; a "Performance Excellence" compensation plan that rewards individuals for the success of their business units; and awide array of employee and family activities. Our location onLake Michigan's "sunset coast" offers diverse recreational, cultural and continuing education opportunities. For consideration, please submit your resume in confi­dence to: Linda Krager, Corporate Recruiting, Whirl­pool Corporation, Ailministration Center, 2000 M-63, Benton Harbor, Ml 49022-2692.. 
Whirl~ol Corporationwill conduct 
on-campus
incerwiews 
on 

November 1 -2, 1990 
Please contact your placement office to schedule an appointment. 
Wh~! 
An Equal Oppoftunity Employer 
26. 

The government's decision comes five weeks after Barry's two-month trial ended with his conviction on one misdemeanor cocaine posses­sion charge, acquittal on another and a mistrial on the 12 remaining counts -three felony perjury charges and nine misdemeanor counts. 
U.S. Attorney Jay Stephens said, "Mr. Barry's political status and political future are not factors we considered when making decisions about this prosecution." 
Stephens declined to say what kind of sentence he would recommend but did 
it in time to launch, say, on Wednesday," Keith Hudkins, chief of the orbiter division, said of the leak. 
"The mood is pretty depressing," Hudkins said. "After all summer trying to chase these leaks down ... I'll tell you this, we've had all the experts working very long hours, and they are experts. It's just a very difficult problem." 
After the launch was called off, engineers scrambled to find the cause of the problem. They monitored sensors in the engine compartment long after the rilling operation was stopped. 
Robert Crippen, director of the shuttle program, said earlier in the day that if the leak wasn't found, NASA would mount television cam­eras in the crowded compartment. 
Columbia is the oldest ship in the fleet. It has been flying since 1981 and has nine 
note the judge has "the charges against him latitude for ... a full year in · including the three felonies, prison." Barry also could face which carried mandatory jail a maximum $100,000 fine. sentences -he was forced to 
The jury's verdict was pay a political price. widely interpreted at the time Current and former Barry as a victory for the mayor. administration sources, 
But Stephens said Monday, speaking on condition of "When all the dust is settled, anonymity, said one reason in the final analysis, the Barry announced he would ultimate truth will remain -not seek reelection as mayor that the chief executive of this was to let the jury know he city charged with the had already made sacrifices, responsibility of leading the to cast himself in a fight against illegal drugs and sympathetic light. violence has himself been Barry's decision not to run convicted of contributing to for a fourth, four-year term that human devastation." opened the door for political 
While Barry escaped newcomer Sharon Pratt conviction on most of the Dixon. 
For Finance and Accounting,whyCiorox? 
Top business graduates have a tremendous choice of careers. Why do so many of them choose to join Clorox in our Rnance & Accounting Development Program? 
Because at Clorox they have an opportunity to work In a very successful consumer products company that manufactures and markets category leaders. 
Because at Clorox they have exposure to all areas of finance and accounting with Increasing levels of responsibility and scope. 
Because at Clorox they can obtain a strong opera­tions orientation in finance and accounting that enables the F&A group to play a key role In develop­ing short-and long-range business plans. Experience that translates Into leadership positions within the company at all levels of management. 
If you are an undergraduate business major or MBA candidate, join us on<ampus and we'll tell you more about the opportunities and rewards available at Clorox. 
Finance Club's career OpportunHy Night Wednesday, September 19th 
6:00 to 8:30 p.m. Joyce Athletic and 
Convocation Center Monogram Room 
Or, If you prefer, you may send your resume to the 
Senior College Relations Specialist, The Clorox 
Company, P.O. Box 24305. Oakland. Califomla 
94623. We are an Affirmative Action 
Employer. 

missions on its flight log. 
At a briefing earlier in the day, William Lenoir, the head of NASA's space flight program, expressed the hope the leaks had been found and fixed. TWo leaky components were replaced last week. 
"We're going to keep trying until we get it right," he said. 
In past filling operations, NASA said it would stop fueling if there were more than 600 parts of the highly flammable hydrogen in a million parts of air. But on Monday, Lenoir said that the bottom line would be raised to 1,000 parts per million. The scrub was called off on Monday when concentrations reached 3,300 ppm. 
On Sept. 5, when the last filling operation also ended in a scrub, sensors recorded 6,500 ppm. On the attempt before that, May 29, hydrogen leaked in two places: from the large pipe that connects the ship with its tank. 



-----~----------·-~---~-----­
Viewpoint
page 10 Tuesday, September 18, 1990 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
·· ~ VS:;~.z ~P.1 SLIC OF" L.:'DSII:W SET FUfX!Et3~ Wi~E:S TO C..:H.L A~Of-.1 D 1-!S" RE.:£,\T STR..-"""10. :orr&..-nV& AND RZS:'DNS!a£ k-""7:0'-lC:: OF 11-liG E{W... AN~ rY'(JJf!; 1'..!<\fiVf KEGOLVf NOT 10 L£r IT :JARBJ ,\..:;.JN . •• 
Death penalty devalues the perceptions of human life 
long past. When reading how Walker to suffer great pain not punishment, Thomas Sellin. For However, the fact that he didBy Molly Griffin several witnesses, including only trivializes the entire sce­example, Marshall reiterates not fight his impending execu­relatives of Walker's murder nario but also draws the public that the death penalty does not tion does not lend support to 
Since I graduated and left the victims, observed the actual ex­away from comprehending the serve as a more effective deter­arguments for his death. womb of Notre Dame just four ecution, I thought how similar atrocity of extinguishing a hu­rent to crime than does life im­Rather, the state should feel months ago, I well remember this seems to Roman spectators man life under any circum­prisonment without parole. ashamed for acilitating how easy it is for students to watching gladiators fight each stances, especially under the Marshall continues by restating Walker's suicide wish. become isolated from national other to the bloody death. The archaic premises of "An eye for that capital punishment is not Most importantly, individuals news. Thus, I want to commu­only differences here are that an eye, a tooth for a tooth." less costly than life imprison­must perceive how allowing nicate to you a profound and Walker's opponent was a Hopefully, many people will ment. In fact, each execution Walker's execution devalues the controversial event that oc­machine and that we are not, now reflect and decide to reject costs taxpayers approximately perception of human life. We curred in Illinois this past technically, calling this en­capital punishment on legal, 1-2 million dollars. must wonder why, among all Wednesday, September 12. The tertainment. ethical, philosophical, and Sellin's study dispels many Death Row inmates, Walker state executed Charles Walker The press has subjected the pragmatic grounds. other myths regarding capital was the first man to die in via lethal injection as public to a coverage blitz of the Furthermore, the practical jus­punishment as well. However, Illinois in 28 years. If other men retribution for his murder of a Walker case. A grave case, tifications are minimal if at all when reflecting upon the issue, may decide in a premeditated young engaged couple. journalists should report it as extant. In fact, in the concur­one must also consider legally manner who shall live and who 
The primitiveness of the exe­such and not as a carnival freak ring opinion in the federal ap­how the barbarity of the death shall die, then we are very close cution hopefully shall prompt show. Juxtaposing details of peals case Furman v. Georgia, penalty violates both the eighth to accepting human life as the public to consider whether Walker's last meal with facts Justice Marshall cites several and fourteenth amendments. whimsically expendable. this facet of our legal system about the lethal injection pro­findings of a study performed Walker stated that he pre­Molly Griffin is a member of constitutes a vestige of an era cess and the potential for by a leading analyst of capital ferred death to life in prison. the Notre Dame Class of '90. 
LETTERS 

Freshmen Panty Raid encourages degrading tradition 
Dear Editor: the residents to throw down they have written their phone that are so determined to break tions until we are willing to The tradition continues. On their panties. numbers and various messages, down barriers and disprove create change. Do we at Saint 
Wednesday night, the dorms at The Freshmen Panty Raid out the window to eager Notre stereotypes continue to support Mary's want to continue to be 
Saint Mary's college were occurs every year at this time, Dame freshmen. What a first and encourage such a viewed as women who throw 
flanked by male freshmen from and its female participants impression. degrading and demoralizing their panties out of open win­
Notre Dame who cat called to throw their panties, on which It amazes us that two schools tradition. We are by no means dows to anonymous male raging feminists, and one passers-by? If not then we had 
doesn't have to be in order to better seriously consider ending 

see the absurdity of the panty that glorious tradition. 
raid. When Notre Dame men's With a little creativity and a 
first introduction to Saint little effort we could easily have 
Mary's women is a pair of un­events that would bring stu.­
derwear hurled down to them dents from both schools to­

with a lewd message, is it any gether on the Saint Mary's 
surprise that they don't take us campus, and no flaunting of 
seriously? And can we really intimate apparel is necessary. 
blame the women of Notre Are we just going to sit back, 
Dame who hear of the evening's complain, and yet allow Notre 
events from their male coun­Dame/Saint Mary's relations to 
terparts for viewing us as less remain as they are, or are we 
than respectable? going to make a concerted ef­
If we really want stereotyping fort to objectively change them? to end and unification to occur Our reputations are really up to between Notre Dame and Saint us. Mary's, then we had better ex­Liz VanDersarl amine the image that we are Katy Sullivan projecting to others. Change Jenni Jalovec 
-_l______ 3,1h/Jil ~ 
will not-and cannot-occur in Holy Cross Hall 
,--·n-tP{A 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's rela-Sept. 12, 1990 

DOONESBURY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Y&AH. .. YEAH, I COUW.
ANYBOVIHeARIJ 
I HAV8N'T 5MOK&D IN
ANYTHING ABaJT 
YMRS, BUT MAYB/3
/JtPUJYM&NT 

ITU 5!377/..13 MYygr-2\ NE3RV/3S. !HANK~ 
8UlJlJY! 
I 
'One of the marks of maturity is the need for solitude.' 
Lewis Mumford (1895-1982) 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Edltor-in.Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ..............•.•••.••. Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ..••••••.......Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager .••......... Amy Eckert Sports Editor ........•.•.......... Greg Guffey Production Manager ..........•.• Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .•••Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .......•••••••••......... Eric Bailey OTS Director ........•..•..••••••• Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...•.•••Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
(~
y 

- 
Accent 
Tuesday, September 18, 1990  page 11  

'This whole world is weird on top and...' 
Wild at Heart 
David Lynch's latest film is trashy, excessive, brilliant 
JASON WINSLADE 
accent writer 

If your nightmares feature severed ears, oxygen masks, Dean Stockwelllip-synching "In Dreams," fetuses, sandworms, blood, donuts or dancing midgets, you've obviously been watching too much David Lynch. 
With only four other feature films to his credit {the cult nightmare, "Eraserhead," his adaptation of "The Elephant Man," the sci-fi flop "Dune," and the bizarre classic "Blue Velvet"), and the wildly successful television series, "1\vin Peaks," called by some critics as the weirdest thing on television ever, Lynch is practically a household name. 
Everything he produces usually blazes with his distorted signature, and he is recognized in the public eye as much as, if not more than, his actors. 
With the late-summer American release of his Palme d'Or Cannes Film Festival winner, "Wild at Heart," Lynch has sealed his reputation as one of the few "auteurs" recognized by the mainstream. 
To describe the plot of Lynch's latest project as a story of lovers on the run hardly does it justice. Loosely based on Barry Gifford's recently published novel {he hated "Blue Velvet," by the way), "Wild at Heart" is the story of two young lovers, Sailor and Lula {Nicholas Cage and Laura Dern), who are on fire for each other and must escape from the evil clutches of Lula's mother (Dern's real mother, Diane Ladd) and her hired henchman. 
The movie is a road film, going from Cape Fear {60's noir reference) in the Carolinas, to New Orleans, to Big Tuna, a Texas hellhole. 
"Wild at Heart" is a roller­coaster ride into the weird, and if you're not used to Lynch's style, the film may be a little overwhelming. Lynch specializes in little moments, lingering a camera just long enough on a bizarre image to make you a little uncomfortable, using painstakingly accurate and amplified sound, introducing off-the-wall caricatures for only one scene, and sledge­hammering certain imagery and references into his viewers. 
Just about every other minute you'll find yourself saying "What the hell was tharall about?" 
In this particular film you'll find two overwhelming images: fire and "The Wizard of Oz." From the title sequence, seemingly shot from inside an inferno, to the extreme close­ups of matches and cigarettes every time one is lit (which is every few minutes; everyone smokes), fire is used metaphori­cally for Lula and Sailor's passion for each other, as well 
as several plot devices. 

"The Wizard of Oz" references are a little annoying after a while, with yellow-brick roads, ruby slippers, and the cheesiest scene in modern cinema {Laura Palmer does Billie Burke, if you can imagine that). 
Mama's henchmen provide many of the interesting characters, from naive and pitiful private detective, Johnny Farragut {Harry Dean Stanton), to the cold-blooded executioner, Santos (J.E. Freeman), and from the sophisticated pervert, Mr. Reindeer {W. Morgan Shep­hard), to the ugly hired gun, Bobby Peru {Willem Dafoe). 
If you're a Lynch fan you'll recognize a few regulars in cameos {there are more cameos than lead characters): "Blue Velvet"'s Isabella Rosselini, "Eraserhead"'s John Nance, and several of the "1\vin Peaks" gang, including, among others, Sherilyn Fenn. 
The lead performances are caricatures and not very believable, but like many things criticized in normal films, this attribute seems to be an advantage given the Lynch context. 
Nicholas Cage, who gave one of the most frenzied and brilliant performances in "Vampire's Kiss," lends a more controlled fury to his performance of Sailor, a modern day Elvis-type. He wears his snakeskin jacket as an "expression of his individuality," sings Elvis' "Love Me" with a heavy-metal band as back-up, and shows his love for Lula by literally bashing someone's brains in with his bare hands (and we still sympathize with this guy!). 
Cage and Lynch are a match made in heaven, as are Lynch and Laura Dern, who changes direction from "Blue Velvet'"s innocent Sandy to the sexually liberated, but still somewhat naive, Lula. The couple's chemistry is perfect, and it is their sincere and simple rela­tionship that pulls the film from the depths of chaos and weirdness. 
Diane'Ladd goes just far enough over the edge as Lula's crazed mother, and the cameo appearances are some of the funniest moments in the film: Crispin Glover, who isn't a Lynch regular but should be, solidifies his bizarre acting reputation by portraying Lula's cousin in a seemingly unrelated flashback. His love for sand­wiches, Santa Claus and cock­roaches, as well as his hatred of black gloves, makes for some of the funniest moments in the film. 
This presents the essential Lynch problem: whether or not to be disturbed by his scenes or to laugh at them. The film is a comedy. In fact, it's hilarious. But to laugh at what every moral structure and social upbringing has told you is sick, or just plain weird, truly tests the strength of the viewer's inhibitions. 
Another problem with the film is the fault of the moviemaker's bane: the censors. The film has been so cut up since its Cannes release that some of the subplots seem incomplete almost to the point of being useless, especially the scenes involving Rosselini and Mr. Reindeer's assassins. Indeed, Lynch's original script would have probably made a four-hour film. It seems that Lynch's intention was to squeeze all the weirdness he could into one feature film. 
While "Blue Velvet" presented a view of normality, albeit fake, along with the bizarre, "Wild at Heart" has no such jumping-off point. It starts weird and stays weird. That's it. But for some reason, that non­stop weirdness seems to be a strength. Indeed, it makes the movie what it is: a love story somewhere at the bottom of a multitude of strange situations. 
"Wild at Heart" is trashy, excessive, and brilliant at the same time and is a pleasure to watch if you enjoy writhing in your seat, laughing and cringing, and reveling in the psychotic. 

'Scamming': it's not a high school game anymore 

MIKE SNYDER 
accent writer 

Scam: v., to attempt to seduce a member of the opposite sex, i.e., to bust a move. 
The fine art of scamming is not one easily mastered. For 18 years, the freshman male has been perfecting, practicing and employing his technique in an attempt to hook up. Most of us were pretty efficient and effective scammers in high school, but all of a sudden, the rules have changed. 
In high school you saw the same people every day, so if you had a bad day, you could find your target sitting next to you in class the next day anyway. 
In college, it has become an entirely new game. You have basically one shot to make an impression on a girl at a party and hope she remembers you (or vice versa). 
So, the freshman male has to relearn how to meet girls. Thanks to the brain trust that organized Orientation Weekend, we had wonderful "meet fests" like the graffiti dance and the beach party. Hardly effective, but darn good nachos. 
The male looks for a role model in an upperclassman. He's someone who's been there, someone who knows the ropes, 
someone whom chicks lust 
after. 

However, their advice is, "Don't worry about it, you're a freshman!" True, but not what we want to hear. So we devise our own techniques and strategies to scam. These range from pulling the good ol' "What's a washer?" laundry scam to picking scopes off the pictures of frosh girls in dorm lobbies. 
What we are all waiting for, however, is the Dogbook. Stories abound about how easy it is to get an SYR date or a scam just by phoning first. We all assume that this is a great tool because the upperclassmen are as desperate as we are to get their hands on it. 
All the freshmen can't be doing too poorly, however. At any given time there are at least 10 couples at the Grotto. (Incidentally, I'm still clueless as to why this is the place to be.) Given time, experience, and a few "Cervezas," the freshmen will become the scammers they once were and will make the upperclassmen proud. 
One key point I've missed: it's virtually impossible to speak of scamming without mentioning Saint Mary's ... but that's another story altogether. 
-
.--­
-

--

-

------------------------~----------------------------------------------------,. 
The Observer
page 12 Tuesday, September 18, 1990 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 

Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 

MUST HAVE MAC COMPUTER 6 MIAMI GA's & 2 STUD 
KNOWLEDGE. QUARK, 
CALL SALLY x4999 New York Attorney needs Stanford NOTICES MICROSOFT, PLUS OTHER. PART HELPIIII DESPERATELY NEED 2 GAs. Will pay big $$$ 
TIME, HOURS FLEXIBLE. CALL MIAMI TIX. STUDS OR GA'S.$$$ NEED All THE STANFORD TIX I 
Call Paul at 201-334-3804 or Nancy273-2090. 9-5. CLOSE TO NOTRE CALL NICOLE 234-8882 CAN GET. GA's. CALL
$$ I NEED 1 AIR FORCE STUD at 277-2942. 
DAME.
TYPING AVAILABLE TICKET!! CALL KATHY X1704. DENNIS X2384 287-4082 WANT 2 PURDUE GA'S 
HAVE STANDFORD STUD TKTS

FOR RENT 
DON'T BE A-CALL MIKE I need 1 Stanford G.A or Student
Need 1 Stanford NEED PURDUE AND A. F. PRAYER MEETING AT 2344 Bob x2384 ticket! CALL Mike-273-9471 WILL BUY TRADE OR SELL 
Thursdays@ 7:30 CALL CAROLYN X1363 
Siegfried Chapel 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.
?? call Eileen x48 15 NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S I have GA's to all home games + Navy WANTED: WILL EVEN PAY$. CALL 
and Mich. State. Looking to trade PLEASE help me convince my FRANKSTAR AT 289-4860 2 PURDUE GA'S 
tickets and/or cash for Miami GA's. father that all the tuition FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED
Typing Interested? he has shelled out over the past for FOR TURTLE CREEK APTS STEPH@ 4322
Pickup & Delivery Call Hugh at 233-6740. years has been worth 277-7406 NON-SMOKER NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S 
ill! I need 273-9406 OR 283-2805 CALL KARIN x1992 
3 STANFORD G.A.'SI ROAD TRIPIIIIII Christine X4012 
I NEED MANY STANFORD TIX, SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING STUD. OR GA. CALL STACY 271­
4 Mich. State GA's for sale or trade. 
CONDO FOR RENT: Stanford Gm I really, really need 
237-1949 PLEASE. Call Hugh at 233-6740. 1893. 
·sleeps 6, Ktch, 2 Btrm, etc.' 
PURDUE GA'S. I got lots of ••• I need 2 Stanford GAs ••• 1 BlockO.C. MONEY. Call Sean x1723 
Call Cory, x271 8 

CALL DENNIS x2097 NEEDED: STANFORD STUDENT
LOST/FOUND 

NEEDED-4 GA TIX FOR PENN GAME-CALL X3635-MORE$$$$ 
TIX JOE#1352 THIS IS A CATHOLIC 
IF THEY ARE IN SAME SECTION NEED TWO AIR FORCE STUD. 
-
FOR SALE
LOST BLUE NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY -TICKETS 
FIESTA BOWL HANDBAG HAVE MERCYIII NEED 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE CALL CALL JIM X1185 
AT MISHIANA REGIONAL NEED 2 miami GAs! 284-4386 X4285.
I NEED PURDUE STUDENT TIX AIRPORT-cONTAINED 
COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 
CALL MAUREEN x4805 CHAMPIONSHIP RING,MONE'(, I NEED STANFORD GA'S 
19" COLOR TV, TWO SEMESTERS AND IMPORTANT PAPERS. $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. VCR, NEED GA'S & STUD. TIX TO All NEED All TIXII! #1588 Kevin CALL ERIK AT X2088. PLEASE CALL TONY AT 
TWO SEMESTERS $110, ONE HOME GAMES -ESP. PURDUE 
I Need 2 GA's for Purdue and Penn X1970. SEMESTER $80. CALL BETH 233-9226 
State-ANY PRICE call Julie 4906 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959. FOR SALE: 2 MICH. ST. GA'S. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL 708-328-1523. 

NEED STANFORD and MIAMI lost: Woman's traditional NEED 1 OR 2 STUD TIX TO 
I NEED 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR TICKETS -STUD'S and GA'S white gold ND class ring with BIKE & COUCH.272-6306 MIAMI X1581-TOM PURDUE AND STANFORD Call Mary at 3816. blue stone. $100 Reward. Please NEED TICKETS FOR PURDUE,
PRICE FLEXIBLE CALL SARAH 4870 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ call Katie Basinski at X4559. STANFORD OR AF. (312) 752­I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GAs and stud 5314. MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME tix for any game. Todd x1747 
FOR SALE: 2 Air Force G.A.s $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ LOST: GOLD ROPE CHAIN 
GAME AND PRICE 273-1364 
NEEDED: Several Penn ST. tix. DI:SPERATELY SEEKING 2 Stan­SAT. NIGHT BETWEEN ZAHM WANTED: 2 MIAMI TICKETS. 
call Byran @ x 1720 ford GAs. Parents will kill me if I HALL AND D2. GREAT Need 2 GAs for Penn State TOP DOLLAR. 404-923-4707. don't get tixl Call and leave PERSONAL VALUE, PLEASE IS IT TRUE...JEEPS FOR $44 Call 284-4060 message at 1572. THROUGH THE U.S. GOV'T?
RETURN IF FOUND. MIAMI TIX WANTED $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 271-9312 CALL FOR FACTS I WANTED: 2 tickets to the Notre 
$ STUDENT OR GA $ 504-649-5745 EXT. S-6840 DESPERATELY need PURDUE Dame-Miami game. Call Mark at 1­
(201) 334-3804 GAslll Paul x1626 800-325-5275 or leave message. 
SELL ME 2 GA's TO THE ND V. FOUND: KEYS IN FLANNER. SET PURDUE GAME. CALL GREG AT CONTAINS 3 KEYS. CALL RICH 
TICKETS 
I NEED MIAMI TIX x1594 239-5370 & IDENTIFY I Need 2 Miami Tickets 4 MIAMI GA's are what I need. 
PLEASE CALL ALLISON KEYCHAIN. Students or GAs So give them to me, please. Pete
289-8915 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Will Pay Top Dollar x1745 
Need Student Tix for Stanford Trump needs 2 Purdue GA's Call Eric x2095 
big$$$$$ FOUND: SET OF KEYS IN 
I have 1 Stud tix Mason X2787 OBSERVER OFFICE. KEY RING for each remaining $NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S$ 
Call Donald X4235 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
HAS A MITSUBISHI KEY ON IT NEW YORK ATTORNEY NEEDS $$$$$$ NO OBJECT$ 
home ND football PLUS SEVERAL OTHERS. COME MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR CALL DAN 3281 
game. Call me with Wanted 2 GA's for Air Force UP TO THE OBSERVER OFFICE GA. WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL SAM 
best offer only big bucks paid IF THEY'RE YOURS. Need $$$?Sell AT (201 )334-3804. 
Jennie T 284-4292 call Mason at 2787 your ga's to all Need GA's and stud tix for ND home games. vrs Stanford PLEASE call lisa FOUND IN CUSHING: 2 KEYS Call tom x1597. NEED 6 GA'S. CALL MIKE ASAP at5012 
I need two GA's for Penn State. Call FOR ROOM 201. CALL X2215. AT CASTLE POINT. 273-9417 
Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or John at 289-1 015 GA Please call Matt X3024 
I NEED TIXS FOR All HOME 
I NEED 1 PENN STATE TICKET. Lost: Important key chain with blue GAMES.272-6306 I NEED ONE MIAMI STUDENT CALL BILLY -x1817. Need 2 PENN ST. GA's bottle top opener, in White Field. TICKET!!!! PLEASE CALL KATE AT For Sale: for dad & little bro 
X4045.

Wish me luck.-x1519 Tickets for all home games -will sing & dance-PLEASE HELP ME !II!! TRADE 2 STAN OR AF GA'S FOR 
call Joe X 1688 BEST OFFER, Andy@1108 Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s 2 PRDU GA'S •TIM.1407
Monday -Thursday
WANTED 
Need GAs for PENN STATE and 

3:30-6:30 PM 
Please sell me your tickets !Ill AIR FORCE. Call Jackie 4121 This is an easy one. I need 
2 MICH ST TICKETS EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK Call Cathy at 273-9624. PURDUE TICKETS! Call Carrie at
·1 need 5• TO TRADE FOR READING BOOKS AT HOME. PURDUE GAs X4049. 2 TICKETS TO ANY CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B-340. Need 2 Miami TIX 
Ted x1942 HOME GAME. Will Pay Top$
-
KRISTI3704 You can save a marriage, sell me Call Brett x 1416 FOR SALE: 
Want to hire art student your two Miami GA's! Dave X1566. Student tickets for Stanford, Purdue to paint leprechaun on rec and Air Force. WANTED-TIX
H E l P 1!1 
room wall 273-9158 love me, abuse me, and sell me Call Amy at x4624 to make an offer. 
MIA -N.D. GAME I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER $$$$$ your Penn State GA's. I need 4 of 
NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY CALL 800-323-7687 
I need 2 GA's for EVERY home them. Call x1696 and leave a WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS 
game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! message for Flo. NEED 2 AIR FORCE STUD TIX
PAYING TOP $$$$$ DON'T FULLFILL MY WILDEST CALL JEFF@277-3998 X3566 $$ALUM NEEDS 4 TICKETS$$ 
PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ 
DREAMS FOR STANFORD, CALL COLLECT DON'T SELL ME YOUR MIAMI (416) 851-0817, AFTER 8:00P.M.,
Need two GA's and one student for TICKER X 1167 Need 1 student Penn State ticket for Penn St. $$ Need 1 Miami stud tic $$ 
I need two Stanford GA's BAD!! RENO. 
a future Domer. Please call Pat at Ask for Tim x4110 $$$$ #2894 $$$$
Parents will take back tuition 
273-9367. 
if I don't come throughll!lll!l Call Mike X3506 I NEED TENNESSEE TICKETS BABYSITTER NEEDED!! !!!!!1!!######!11!111!1######## 
I HAVE $$$AND STANFORD During home FB games BIG DOLLARS! SOLVE MY PROBLEMS FOR ME! Hey-We need 3 Miami GA's 
STUD TICKET. CALL ROBERT Call Steve at X1037. NEED STUDENT TIX I NEED 6 STANFORD AND 6 Call Diana 234-4974 or
WANTED-ND-MICH TIX(4). 4057 All HOME GAMES PENN STATE GA's David x1244 
WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL CALL1597 CALL TIM #2704 AND LEAVE 
COLL:1-312-745-7210. WANT YOUR A MESSAGE I NEED 2 STUDENT AND 1 GA TWO PENN STATE Got Miami and other stud tix 
FOR AIR FORCE TICKETS KEVEN 1588
DESPERATELY SEEKING 
I NEED TIXIII 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE, CALL: LUCH AT 273-9316 STANFORD GAME TIX HELP I I NEED 3 PURDUE GA'SI 
1 ST. FOR STAN. CALL MIKE X3039 
for use by my nubile young sister CALL ERIN AT 283-3425 
TONY X1590 who's coming to town. Parents coming for NO-Air Force RIDE NEEDED: to U. of Dayton or Call Alison at 4011 Game. Need to buy general WILL TRADE SIX MIAMI GA'S FOR Indiana U. any wknd this semester. WILL TRADE 2 USC GA FOR 2 DESPERATELY NEED 2 PURDUE admission tickets. Call Mary lou or SIX BETTER MIAMI GA'S PLUS Will pay$$$. Call John x1177. MIAMI ALSO NEED GAS All Ray 234-3873. Would like to buy
GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES. $$$ Miami Ticket HOME GAMES TERRI X4837 them now! !I
CALL KEVIN X1589 ALSO NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S Available 
FOR$$$ PURDUE! I NEED 2 PURDUE 
x1412 
CALL GREG 288-9075 GA'S. TEXAS ALUMNI NEEDS 2-3 G.A. i need 2-4 miami tix 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH IF YOU CAN HELP PLEASE TICKETS TOGETHER IF POSSIBLE and 1 purdue tix 
STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL#3074. Need Miami GA's FOR MIAMI AND PENN STATE. call pat x3800 
CALL 273-1364 I NEED 3 AIR FORCE G.A.'S OR 2 $$$$$$$ no object CALL BROTHER 287-0461 AFTER 
G.A.'S AND 1 STUD. WILL PAY 6P.M. BIG $$OR ROUND TRIP AIRFARE 
$$$$$$. CALL JOHN X1177. Students, need extra spending TO ACAPULCO FOR SRING BREAK
Call Mark 232-4589 
NEED MIAMI TICKETS???? money???? MACRI'S DEll IS IN EXCHANGE FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. 
NOW HIRING FULL AND PART Need: PSU GA's ME TOO 
TIME COOKS AND EVENING URGENT! I need 1 Miami, 5 Stanford Have: Purdue, AF, Pitt GA's BOB AT 1-800-875-4525. 
NEED TICKETS(GA'S) FOR AIR Tix. STUD or GA. David at x4115. Trade? Call Dan X3466 
BUSSERS. Good employee 4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami fans FORCE. CALL JULIA X3505 
-
benefits, flexible schedules, and a 

that need humbling. great place to work. Apply within: need 1 stud. tick. to Miami! 
A Certain $$$MILLIONAIRE$$$ Located in University Center on I HAVE: have other tick. & $,call for 
I need 4 Stanford and 4 Air Force tix. 
272-8954 Amy Needs 2 AF GA's and 4-8 STAN or Grape Road. Call Pat x 233-7328. 2 STANFORD GA's deal.234-5840 John 
PURDUE GA's CALL Pat x1900 2 PURDUE GA's 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S 4 AIR FORCE GA's CALL ALEX X1068 
-
UNIQUE POSITION-GRAPHIC Need 2 Air Force GA's call & 2 NAVY (meadowlands) GA's see CLASS page ARTIST AND RECEPTIONIST. TO TRADE FOR :Brian C. at x3546 or x3540 

Scoreboard
Tuesday, September 18, 1990 


BASEBALL STANDINGS  LEADERS  SPORTS CALENDAR  
MEN'S GOLF  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  PONTE VEDRA, Fla. (AP) ­ Money leaders  MEN'S TENNIS  Tuesday, Sept 18  
East Division  on  the  1990  PGA  Tour  through  the  The leading money winners on the 1990  No sports scheduled.  
Boston  w 81  L 67  Pet .547  GB  L10 3-7  Streak Won 1  Canadian Open, which ended Sept. 16:  ATP Tour through Sept. 16:  Wednesday, Sept. 19  
Toronto Detroit Milwaukee  80 71 69  68 77 78  .541 .480 .469  1 10 111/2  z-8-2 5-5 z-4-6  Won4 Won 2 Lost 1  1. Greg Norman 2. Payne Stewart 3. Wayne Levi  $907,977 $826,063 $772,397  1. Stefan Edberg 2. Boris Becker 3. Ivan Lend!  $1,137,176 $905,902 $797,802  Women's soccer vs. ST. JOSEPH'S, 5 p.m. Men's soccer vs. DETROIT, 7:30p.m.  
Cleveland  68  80  .459  13  7-3  Won 1  4. Hale Irwin  $753,749  4. Andre Agassi  $785,212  Thursday, Sept. 20  
Baltimore  65  81  .445  15  z-4-6  lost 4  5. Paul Azinger  $746,681  5. Andres Gomez  $784,055  
New York  60  87  .408  201/2  3-7  lost3  6. Mark Calcavecchia  $744,021  6. Pete Sampras  $732,697  No sports scheduled.  
West Division  w  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  7. Fred Couples 8. Gil Morgan  $682,499 $613,996  7. Goran lvanisevic 8. Emilio Sanchez  $593,285 $529,839  Friday, Sept. 21  
Oakland Chicago Texas  94 84 77  52 62 69  .644 .575 .527  10 17  z-8-2 5-5 z-8-2  Won3 Won4 Lost 1  9. Lanny Wadkins 10. Tom Kite 11 . Larry Mize  $604,433 $580,782 $577,688  9. Thomas Muster 1 0. Brad Gilbert 11. Jim Courier  $490,447 $473,853 $383,845  Women's soccer at Michigan State, 2 p.m. Men's soccer at Michigan State. 4 p.m. Women's volleyball at Rhode Island Tournament  
California  74  73  .503  201/2  5-5  Lost2  12. Tim Simpson  $501,185  12. Andrei Chesnokov  $370,023  
Seattle  72  75  .490  221/2  4-6  Won2  13. Peter Jacobsen  $477,688  13. Guy Forget  $360,668  
Kansas City Minnesota  69 66  78 83  .469 .443  251/2 291/2  3-7 z-2-8  Won2 Lost4  14. ian Baker-Finch 15. Wayne Grady  $438,463 $433,685  14. Michael Chang 15. Jay Berger  $351,512 $343,184  RESULTS  
16. Chip Beck  $432,816  16. Jakob Hlajek  $326,011  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  17. Steve Elkington  $419,864  17. Jonas Sv(nsson  $299,320  Men's Soccer(2-3-1)  
East Division  18. J. Gallagher. Jr.  $413,382  18.Jim Pugh  $282,107  Monday  
w  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  19. Mark O'Meara  $402,275  19. John Mcenroe  $277,305  Notre Dame 6, Valparaiso 0  
Pittsburgh New York Montreal  84 83 78  63 63 68  .571 .568 .534  112 5112  3-7 z-6-4 z-7-3  Lost 5 Lost 1 Won3  20. Jodie Mudd 21 . Robert Gamez 22. John Huston  $401,746 $391,319 $378,930  20. Juan Aguilera 21. Aaron Krickstein 22. David Wheaton  $274,406 $272,963 $272,870  Women's Volleyball (4-4)  
Chicago Philadelphia St.Louis  70 67 66  76 79 81  .479 .459 .449  131/2 161/2 18  6-4 z-4-6 z-4-6  Won2 Won 1 Lost 2  23. Billy Maytair 24. Davis Love Ill 25. Brian Tennyson  $365,819 $361,022 $349,940  23. Petr Korda 24. Guillermo Perez-Roldan 25. Mark Kratzmann  $270,517 $265,913 $264,491  Friday Kentucky d. Notre Dame 15-13, 15-7,6-15, 15-10  
West Division  26. David Frost  $348,725  26. Sergi Bruguera  $257,208  
Cincinnati  w 83  L 63  Pet .568  GB  L10 5-5  Streak Won2  27. Ben Crenshaw 28. Nick Faldo  $348,440 $345,262  27. Scott Davis 28. Martin Jaite  $249,815 $248,868  TRANSACTIONS  
Los Angeles San Francisco  78 7 5  69 72  .531 .510  5112 8112  z-6-4 5-5  Won 1 Lost4  29. Loren Roberts 30. J. Maria Olazabal  $343,447 $337,837  29. Karel Novacek 30. Pieter Aldrich  $246,452 $243,827  
San Diego  69  77  .473  14  6-4  Won3  31. Nick Price  $336,669  31. Goran Prpic  $241,588  BASEBAll  
Houston  67  80  .456  161/2  z-5-5  Lost 1  32. Steve Pate  $329,691  32. Derrick Rostagno  $239,572  American League  
Atlanta  59  88  .401  241/2  z-3-7  Lost 3  33. Tommy Armour  $329,182  33. Danie Visser  $235,220  CLEVELAND INDIANS-Traded Bud Black,  
z-denotes first game was a win  34. Mike Donald  $321,418  34. Kevin Curren  $225,917  pitcher, to the Toronto Blue Jays for Mauro  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  35. Scott Hoch  $309,563  35. Henri Leconte  $223,560  Gozzo, pitcher, and two players to be named  
Sunday's Games  36. Steve Jones  $305,682  36. Tim Mayotte  $222,276  later.  
Detroit 5, New York 2  37. Billy Ray Brown  $302,379  37. Richey Reneberg  $215,401  KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Purchased the  
Chicago 4, Boston 2  38. Gene Sauers  $299,835  38. Rick Leach  $215,340  contracts of Jeff Conine, first baseman;  
Kansas City 9, Cleveland 6  39. Scott Verplank  $297,064  39. Horst Skoff  $208,661  Brent Mayne, catcher; and Sean Berry, third  
Milwaukee 5, Texas 3  40. Bruce Lietzke  $294,174  40. Omar Camporese  $206,872  baseman, from Memphis of the Southern  
Seattle 5, California 3  41. Corey Pavin  $289,Q42  41 . Grant Connell  $206,749  League.  
Oakland 5, Minnesota 4, 11 innings  42. Curtis Strange  $274,419  42. Jordi Arrese  $204,457  MINNESOTA  TWINS-Purchased  the  
Toronto 6, Baltimore 5  43. Tom Purtzer  $271,093  43. Darren Cahill  $203,874  contract  of  Rich  Garces,  pitcher,  from  
Monday's Games  44. Mark Brooks  $269,624  44. Amos Mansdorf  $202,806  Orlando of the Southern League. Recalled  
Late Games Not Included Boston 7, Baltimore 3  45. Dan Forsman 46. Bill Britton  $266,390 $264,244  WOMEN'S TENNIS  Lenny Webster, catcher, from Orlando. Placed David West, pitcher, on the 60-day  
Cleveland 4, Milwaukee 2  47. Ray Royd  $264,078  The  Women's  Tennis  Association  emergency disabled list, retroactive to Sept.  
Toronto 6, New York 4 Kansas City 1, Minnesota 0  48. Chris Perry 49. Kenny Perry  $259,108 $258,881  money leaders through Sept. 16  7. National League  ,  
Texas at Seattle, (n)  50. Ken Green  $258,106  1. Martina Navratilova  $1,027,030  SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Activated Rick  
Chicago at Oakland, (n)  51. Joey Sindelar  $257,957  2. Steffi Graf  999,070  Reuschel, pitcher.  
Only games scheduled  52. Jeff Sluman  $256,991  3. Monica Seles  875,474  
Tuesday's Games  53. Craig Stadler  $251,832  4. Gabriela Sabatini  648,533  BASKETBAll  
Boston (Bolton 9-3) at Baltimore (Mesa 1-2), 7:35p.m.  54. Morris Hatalsky  $247,919  5. Jana Novotna  513,482  Continental Basketball Association  
Milwaukee (Krueger 5-8) at Cleveland (Nagy 0-4), 7:35 p.m.  55. Tony Sills  $243,350  6. Zina Garrison  485,018  GSA-Awarded a franchise to Fort Wayne,  
New York (M.Witt 4-8) at Toronto (Stieb 18-6), 7:35p.m.  56. Mike Reid  $237,540  7. Helena Sukova  401,684  Ind. for the 1991-92 season.  
Kansas City (Gordon 11-10) at Minnesota (Erickson 5-4), 8:05p.m.  57. Scott Simpson  $235,309  8. Arantxa Sanchez Vicario  398,299  
Chicago (Fernandez 3-3) at Oakland (Moore 12-12), 10:05 p.m.  58. Rocco Mediate  $233,844  9. Natalia Zvereva  393,363  FOOTBALL  
Texas (Hough 12-10) at Seattle (Delucia 0-0), 10:05 p.m.  59. John Cook  $227,317  10. Katerina Maleeva  282,163  National Football League  
Detroit (Morris 1 1-18) at California (Finley 18-6), 10:35 p.m. Wednesday's Games Chicago at Oakland. 3:15p.m. Boston at Baltimore, 7:35p.m.  60. Russ Cochran 61. Peter Persons 62. Tom Watson 63. Mike Hulbert  $222,183 $215,109 $213,989 $212,054  11 . Mary Joe Fernandez 12. Manuela Maleeva-Fragnir 13. Jennifer Capriati 14. Nathalie Tauziat  281,616 249,874 225,815 221,756  INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Waived James Pruitt, wide receiver. KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Activated Albert Lewis, cornerback. Placed Kenny Gamble,  
Milwaukee at Cleveland, 7:35 p.m.  64. John Mahaffey  $211,854  15. Judith Wiesner  203,962  running bacj<, on injured reserve.  
New York at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Kansas City at Minnesota, 8:35 p.m. Texas at Seattle, 10:05 p.m.  65. Billy Andrade 66. Andrew Magee 67.Ha1Sutton  $209,672 $206,827 $199,131  16. Elizabeth Smylie 17. Gigi Fernandez 18. Larisa Savchenko  198,904 194,545 187,409  LOS ANGtlES RAIDERS-Placed Howie Long, defensive end, on injured reserve. Activated Steve Bauerlein, quarterback.  
Detroit at California, 10:35 p.m.  68. Jay Delsing  $197,701  19. Leila Meskhi  157,629  NEW  ENGLAND  PATRIOTS-Activated  
69. Jim Thorpe  $197,464  20. Mercedes Paz  151,678  Chris Singleton,  linebacker.  Placed Tony  
NATIONAL LEAGUE Sunday's Games  70. Brad Faxon 71. Bob Estes  $193,170 $191,938  21. Patty Fendick 22. Nicole Provis  146,203 146,036  Zackery, safety, on injured reserve. Canadian Football League  
Montreal 4, Pittsburgh 1 Philadelphia 8, New York 3  72. David Peoples 73. David Ishii  $188,723 $188,000  23. Gretchen Magers 24. Lori McNeil  145,117 142,065  BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Named Bill Quinter director of player personnel.  
San Diego 9, Atlanta 4  74. Bobby Wadkins  $185,704  25. Laura Gildemeister  135,016  
Cincinnati 9, Los Angeles 5 Chicago 8, St. louis 4  75. Don Pooley 76. Ted Schulz  $185,386 $183,927  26. Rosalyn Fairbank-Nideffer 27. Helen Kelesi  132,460 130,422  HOCKEY National Hockey League  
Houston 3, San Francisco 2  77. BobTway  $182,192  28. Conchita Martinez  129,959  QUEBEC  NORDIQUES-Signed  Mats  
78. Fuzzy Zoeller  $182,152  29. Barbara Paulus  119,760  Sundin, right wing, to a multiyear contract.  
79. Dave Barr  $181,259  30. Elna Reinach  115,746  
Monday's Games Cincinnati 4, San Francisco 0 Los Angeles 5, Atlanta 2 San Diego 5, Houston 0 Only games scheduled Tuesday's Games San Francisco (Burkett 12-7) at Cincinnati (Browning 13-8), 12:35 p.m. los Angeles (Neidlinger 4-1) at Atlanta (Marak 0-1}, 5:40p.m. Montreal (Boyd 10-5) at New York (Gooden 17-6), 7:35p.m. Pittsburgh (Smiley 8-9) at Chicago (Maddux 13-13), 8:05p.m. San Diego (Whitson 12-8) at Houston (Gullicikson 9-12), 8:35p.m. Philadelphia (Grimsley 1-2) at St.Louis (Tewksbury 10-6), 8:35p.m.  80. Mark Lye 81. Kirk Triplett 82. Willie Wood 83. Jay Haas 84. Fred Funk 85. Brian Claar 86. Bill Sander 87. Bill Glasson 88. D.A. Weibring 89. David Edwards 90. Mark McCumber 91. Donnie Hammond 92. Brad Bryant 93. Rick Fehr  $179,136 $176,271 $171,872 $170,102 $168,175 $156,811 $154,996 $154,508 $154,083 $151,201 $150,806 $149,276 $149,246 $146,037  31. Dinky Van Rensburg 32. Sandra Cecchini 33. Manon Bollegraf 34. Robin White 35. Ann Grossman 36. Kathy Jordan 37. Brenda Schultz 38. Claudia Porwik 39. Raffaella Reggi 40. Rachel McQuillan 41 . Anne Smith 42. Nathalie Herreman 43. Andrea Temesvari 44. Amy Frazier  113,218 112,214 108,376 108,235 106,787 102,682 101,894 101,749 101,358 98,798 90,660 90,449 90,332 89,771  SOCCER Major Soccer League CLEVELAND CRUNCH-Signed P.J. Johns, goaltender. COLLEGE SETON HALL-Named John Wooding associate director of athletics for communications. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA-Named David Nesbit men's and women's varsity crew coach. SYRACUSE-Named Sue Cornelius assistant sports information director.  

r 

GENERAL MILLS 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN FINANCE AND CONTROLLERSHIP 
Thursday, September 20th 8:00-10:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Reception to Follow Presentation 
Junior and Senior Finance and Accounting Majors: Come and talk about career opportunities at General Mills. 
.. c ..... "' 


I·( ; : f t -:: --· 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, September 18, 1990 
Dolphins and Raiders back atop divisions; 

impressive rookies and faster games characterize early going of1990 season 
Who are those funny teams Dolphins in the Meadowlands only touchdown in the 28-7 loss And, Keith McCants (Tampa "Do I miss Hebert? Hell no,"atop the AFC East and West? to play the Giants, whom they to the Giants. Bay, No. 1) and Cortez Kennedy coach Jim Mora said after 
Did anyone say the Raiders have played only once before in -Steve Broussard (Falcons, (Seattle, No. 1) one tackle each; Sunday's game. and the Dolphins, who the regular season, in 1972. No. 1) 88 yards in 19 carries Emmitt Smith, (Dallas, No. 1( 2 
Pittsburgh, meanwhile, has disappeared in the mid '80s and Tim Robbie, currently the for Atlanta in its 21-14 loss to carriers for 2 yards and 2 yet to score a touchdown on whose most recent address was team's president. was 17 vP>~rc Detroit. 

catches for 12 yards; Lamar offense as Bubby Brister and"Somewhere in Mediocrity." old and a ball boy for that -Richmond Webb and Keith Lathon (Houston, No. 1) 0-0-0. his friends try to absorb 
OK, so it's early, but Miami's game, which was played in Sims (Miami No.1 and 2), 
* * * offensive coordinator Joe

30-7 rout of Buffalo may have Yankee Stadium. started next to each other on All three rookie coaches won Walton's new scheme. Thesymbolized a rebirth of a team The Dolphins won 23-13. the Miami line which helped the for the first time Sunday ­Steelers' two TDs in the 20-9that was one of the NFL's most * * * Dolphins rush for 128 yards Bruce Coslet of the Jets, 24-21 victory over Houston Sundaydominant between 1972 and So you think the first week's anu allowed no sacks against over the Browns; Rod Rust of night came on an interception1985. It put the Dolphins in games were quick. Buffalo. the Patriots, 16-14 over the by David Johnson and a puntfirst place alone for the first Sunday's games averaged 2 -Junior Seau (San Diego, Colts, and -most suprisingly return by Rod Woodson.
time in five years and marked hours, 53 minutes, 11 minutes No. 1) Five tackles (to go with -Joe Bugel of the Cards, 23­
* * * 

the first time in 33 games that less than last week and only seven last week) in a 21-16loss 21 over the Eagles. 
Joe Montana's 390-yard

Buffalo was out of the AFC three games went longer than to Cincinnati while James "We made believers of some 
game (ho hum) against

East lead. three hours, led by the 3:08 of Francis (Bengals, No. 1) had non-believers," said Bugel, who Washington, made him the all­It also marked Don Shula's the Houston-Pittsburgh game. four tackles. after last week's 31-0 loss in time leader in passing yards for 200th win with the Dolphins, The quickest was the Rams' -Ray Agnew, (New England, Washington looked like he the 49ers with 31,654 yards. Hemaking him only the fourth 35-14 victory over Tampa Bay, second pick in Round 1, 10 might be this year's Jimmy passed John Brodie, who hadcoach in history to win 200 which took 2:38. overall) five tackles a 16-14 win Johnson, 1-15 as a rookie head 31,548 between 1957 and 1973 . 
games with one team -George That makes the yearly . over Indianapolis. coach. 
The only surprise about thatHalas (Chicago). Tom Landry average between 2:58 and 2:59 -Linebackers Terry Wooden * * * is that he hadn't done it earlier. 

(Dallas) and Curly Lambeau compared to 3:11 last year. and Robert Blackmon (Seattle's In two games, New Orleans 
* * * 

(Green Bay) are the others. * * * No.2 and No.3) combined for has yet to score a touchdown 
Lawrence Taylor, who

"That tells you I'm old," said Because of the juniors who six tackles and four assists in under the quarterback who is reported to the Giants in timeShula, more concerned with the came out early, the 1990 draft the 17-13 loss to the Raiders. becoming known as "the for just three practices before present than the past. "I realize was a good one. And the second Where are you Brian Bosworth. unfortunate John Fourcade." 
the opening game, had five

200 will be important some week was a good one for -Rodney Hampton (New Tommy Kramer did no better. more tackles, a sack and anday, but right now what I feel rookies, particularly a couple York Giants, No. 1). four Bobby Hebert, meanwhile, may 
interception he returned 11good about is this team is 2-0." of unsung ones who stood out catches for 53 yards and 22 be headed for the Raiders ­yards for a touchdown.

The Raiders, who finally in Phoenix' 23-21 upset of yards in 8 carries in the 28-7 he's certainly not about to Season totals: 12 tackles,know where they will play this Philadelphia. win over Dallas return to the Saints, where the 
year, also sense a turnaround One is Johnny Johnson, the from the 8-8 cycle of the past Cards' seventh-round pick from four seasons. San Jose State, who carried 22 
"You see the determination in times for 82 yards and had a our eyes, says defensive tackle 22-yard touchdown run. The Bob Golic. "A year ago, you'd other is Ricky Proehl, the third­look around and see blank rounder from Wake Forest who stares." had four catches for 72 yards 
Going into Monday night's while the rest of the team Kansas City-Denver game, combined for just 44 yards in there were six 2-0 teams after receptions. two weeks of the NFL season, Some others: three of them ( 49ers, Bengals -Mark Carrier (Bears, and Giants) the preseason Round 1) six tackles and an favorites in their divisions. interception in the 31-13 Then there are the Raiders and victory over Green Bay Dolphins, and, after a shorter -Blair Thomas (Jets, Round absence, the Bears, whose 1), 6 carries for 46 yards and a defense (13 points allowed in 55-yard pass reception in the two games) seems to be back. 24-21 victory over Cleveland 
The Bears and Dolphins will Alexander Wright be tested next week, Chicago at (Cowboys, No. 2) a 90-yard home against Minnesota, the kickoff return for the Cowboys' 
Meyer concerned with beating Houston, not with losing his job 
I couldn't ask for better people 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Ron to play for," George said. Meyer was still coaching the The possibility of Mackovic Indianapolis Colts on Monday, leaving the Illini during the sea­concerning himself with beating son, George said, hadn't "even Houston rather than a rumored crossed mind.... " report that he was being fired. 
CBS Sports reported on its "NFL Today" show Sunday that Indianapolis players had been told Meyer was on his way out and that Illinois coach John Mackovic was to be his re­placement. 
Meyer said he was concerned 
four sacks, one interception,
* * * 
mutual antagonism runs high. one TD. 

WALKAWAY ... 
0A NOONTIME WALKING PROGRAM FOR FITNESS 

LUNCHTIME ON TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS STARTS SEPTEMBER 18 12:15-12:45PM ENJOY FRESH AIR AND GOOD COMPANY MEET IN FRONT OF WASHINGTON HALL BY 12:15 WEAR GOOD WALKING SHOES 
2 MILE ROUTES MODERATE PACE 
SPONSORED BY NVA 

with the report because it could 

The Notre Dame Finance Club presents:
become a negative element. However, he said had not dis­cussed it with his players. "There was no reason to, none whatsoever," he said. 

THE FINANCE CI_UB
Players questioned about the report denied they had been told their coach was being 

OPPORTUNITIES NIGHT 
dismissed. "I haven't heard that and I'm not worried about it," rookie 

Come Meet the Companies!
quarterback Jeff George said Monday. "That's just the busi­ness. Whenever you win games, it's always the quarterback and the coach. Whenever you lose 

Wednesday, 19 September, 6-8:30 pmgames, it's alw11ys the coaching change or quarterback 
MONOGRAM ROOM, ~JACC
change," that will produce vic­tories. 
George, who played for Mackovic at Illinois, called the prospect of a coaching change "ridiculous." 
"It's early in the season and we have a lot of confidence. The coaching staff here is great and 


Tuesday, September 18, 1990 The Observer page 15 
-lo5fittfiicclilaiiliSs~aiir~e!ir;eeciecliff:;;o-;r-ss~occc~emr~.~wv;oOimffiee~n~·ss---------,•••••••r-------the Golf Shop, located in Rockne. flag football and grad/fac football. Sign up in the SPORTS BRIEFS NVA office by Wednesday, Sept. 19th. The Sailing Club will meet today at 6:30 p.m. Domer Runs will be Saturday, Sept. 22. Three 
at the boathouse. Members of the race team are and six mile races start at 10 a.m.; participantsND/SMC Field Hockey will have practice encouraged to attend. receive tee-shirt and pancake breakfast. Sign up at tonight from 8:30 -9:30 p.m. in Loftus. For more NVA 
information, call Suzanne at x4174. All varsity crew team members should Outdoor Adventure class will be held on Sept.attend a meeting Thursday, Sept. 20th at 7:30 p.m. 19th; overnight campout to be held Sept. 22-23; $10 The Hapkido Club meets Tues. and Thurs. at in 127 Nieuwland. Payment for Pittsburgh will be fee includes all but personal clothing. Call NVA for 
8:30 p.m. in Rm. 219 Rockne. Learn self-defense and collected. details. sparring techniques. For more information, call Ron 
Putt-Putt Golf Tourney will be held Sept.at x3504. Beginners welcome. Novice crew team members should attend 23rd; $5 fee per team. Please sign up by Sept. 19 at 
a meeting Wednesday, Sept. 19th at 7:30p.m. in 127 NVA 
The Notre Dame swim team is seeking Nieuwland. Bring your checkbooks for dues and Join a mystery football player and hosts back-up timers for the swim meets and for people shirt. Hugh McGowan and Vic Lombardi on WVFI with experience in the Colorado Time System.. All SportsTalk tonight. The show will air from 8 to 9 who are interested should attend at meeting Sunday, NVA Golf Scramble -The deadline for the 2 p.m. at 640 on your A.M. dial, with a review of the 
Sept. 23rd at 1 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center Person Golf Scramble has been extended to Michigan game and a preview of the coming gameclassroom. Wfldnesday, Sept. 19th. Entrants must sign-up at with Michigan State. 
Eric Dickerson waits in limbo for Colts decision on his fate 
NFL commissioner Paul offices. His lawyer, Arn Tellum, Dickerson, the seventh­lose about $600,000 of his the matter and will have no Tagliabue met Monday with made a brief statement. leading rusher in NFL history $1.45 million salary. further comment until the Eric Dickerson and "We believe and hope the with 11,236 yards, cannot be "We presented our point of review is completed," Aiello Indianapolis Colts general commissioner, after reviewing activated until Oct. 17, in time view," Irsay said, "and went said. manager Jim Irsay but didn't the facts and considering the for an Oct. 21 game against over it in pretty much detail. make an immediate decision on law, will find the Colts' decision Denver. Dickerson has had an There were questions asked of Dickerson rushed for 1,313 the running back's suspension. to place Mr. Dickerson on the injured left hamstring but says both sides and that's where it yards last season, making him 
non-football injury list was the injury has healed. stands now." the first running back in NFL 
Dickerson, placed on the non­improper and will reverse it," history with seven straight football injury list Aug. 29 after Tellum said. "Eric is healthy, In addition to placing Greg Aiello, an NFL 1,000-yard seasons. He needs refusing to take a physical, had has been healthy, and is ready Dickerson on the list, the Colts spokesman, said Tagliabue 11 yards to move past O.J. nothing to say following a and willing and able to play suspended him for four weeks. would not answer questions. Simpson into sixth place on the three-hour meeting at the NFL football." lf nothing changes, he would "The commissioner will review career rushing list. 
Atlanta anxious to play host to1996 Summer Olympics 
Confident yet braced for official announcement about 45 continue throughout the day, the Games would pump $3.5 the vest, handicapping is based disappointment, Atlanta learns minutes later. The AOC has set with another fireworks show billion over six years into the mostly on hearsay and Tuesday whether its $7 million up two huge television screens planned for the evening. state economy, add 85,000 jobs secondhand information. effort to land the 1996 Summer at Underground Atlanta for a "If Atlanta wins, the party and create global exposure. ''I'm reminded constantly 
Olympics will produce a lighted party scheduled to begin with will go on for six years," said All events would be staged in that in 1988 when the IOC torch. entertainment from local AOC volunteer Laurie Olsen, the Atlanta area except selected Lillehammer, Norway, 
Two years of intense lobbying musicians at 6 a.m. who helped coordinate the yachting, which would be held to host the 1994 (Winter by the Atlanta Organizing If Atlanta wins, the moment victory celebration. off the Savannah coast. Games), that city by general Committee. a mostly volunteer will be marked with the firing The AOC has said the Atlanta's competition speculation was believed to be group, comes down to a vote of of four confetti-filled cannons, fireworks will go on as planned includes Athens, Greece; fourth as the vote the International Olympic the release of 2,500 balloons even if Atlanta loses. Melbourne, Australia; Toronto; approached," Brennan said. Committee, which has convened and a fireworks show that will An Atlanta victory could be Manchester, England; and Anchorage, Alaska spent in Tokyo and will decide light up the morning sky. The monumental for Georgia. Belgrade, Yugoslavia. Because more than $3 million to bid for between six finalist cities. celebration at the shopping and According to a study done the vote is secret and most of the 1994 Games -its second 
The decision is expected by 7 entertainment mall in jointly by an accounting firm the 88 IOC members are bid -and was considered a 
a.m. EDT Tuesday, with the downtown Atlanta would and the University of Georgia, keeping their choices close to favorite. 
Student Government Presents... APulliC F0111m On Contemporary Issues 
With 
Geraldine Ferraro 
w~ September 19, 1990 
12:00 noon Rddhouse Mall 
(in case ofinclement weather the lecture will be held in Washington Hall) 
nUDE•NT 
I 0 Jlllllll 
This ledun was mm1e posWle ~the generosity ofsevero1 m.em.lm of the Arts & Letters Council and the Business College Council. 



~-----~---~---~--~--­
page 16 The Observer Tuesday, September 18, 1990 
Joe Walton's troubles haunt him in Pittsburgh; 
Steeler players and fans criticize new offensive coordinator while Chuck Noll defends him 
APPholo 
While Neal Anderson and the Chicago Bears have their offense on track, Joe Walton's Steeler attack is struggling like a wounded dog. 
$100 million fine for baseball collusion 

The Cincinnati Bengals have a no-huddle offense, but division rival Pittsburgh has done them one better. The Steelers have no offense. 
New York Jets' fans serenaded former head coach Joe Walton by singing "Joe Must Go" last year, but so far this season, Walton's new Steelers' offense has been strictly no go. 
Walton's ball-control '0' has produced nothing but OOOOOOOOs, failing to score a touchdown in a season-opening loss to Cleveland or Sunday night's 20-9 victory over Houston. 
Only a defense that has been Pittsburgh's best since the Steel Curtain days, allowing one touchdown in eight quarters, has saved the Steelers from their second consecutive 0-2 start. Their two touchdowns against Houston came on David Johnson's 26-yard interception 
Shaw reaches terms with Celtics; point guard returns after legal war 
Brian Shaw said Monday he's happy to do now what he had endured a bitter court battle and $50,000 in fines to avoid­return to the Boston Celtics for the upcoming NBA season. 
The Celtics, eager to regain their point guard after he spent a season playing in Italy, announced Monday that Shaw would rejoin them under a contract he signed last January. It runs for the next four seasons. 
"Glad to be back," Shaw said during a news conference. 
The dispute began after he signed the deal while in the first year of a two-year contract he had with Il Messaggero of Rome, then fought to return to the Italian club for next season. 
The resolution followed a federal court decision last June 26 ordering Shaw to end the Italian contract and allowing him to play only for the Celtics, a fine of $50,000 for defying the order and meetings between lawyers for both sides. 
"I never felt I did anything wrong," Shaw said. "I was in a situation in Italy where the people over there were very nice to me and I had two contracts. 
"I wanted to try and make everybody happy and step back and do it in such a way that everybody could get a little bit," he said. "Everybody felt they had a legitimate claim." 
He said it was his intention to play one more year with Il Messaggero, then return to the Celtics. 
"I never ever said or ever felt that I didn't want to be here," Shaw said. 
He decided to return to the Celtics when federal Judge A. David Mazzone "said I couldn't play for anyone else. That cut out my options." 
"I want to make it clear that 
Indians deal Black to Jays 
CLEVELAND (AP) -Left­handed pitcher Bud Black was thrust into a pennant race Monday night when the Cleveland Indians traded him to the Toronto Blue Jays for mi­nor league right-hander Mauro Gozzo and two players to be named later. 
The 33-year-old Black was 11-10 with a 3.53 ERA for the Indians. He was scheduled to start against Milwaukee on return and Rod Woodson's 52-and that's a problem," Noll yard punt return. said. "If it's one person, it's 
The offense was downright easier to correct. We missed offensive, producing just 123 audibles at the line of yards, their lowest since they scrimmage, we missed assign­had 53 in last year's season­ments ... when we'd get opening 51-0 loss to Cleveland. somebody open, there would be They had 17 net yards in the no protection. There were first quarter and 18 in the hurried throws. It went around fourth. with everyone." 
No offense, Joe, but the Last week, Brister said he Steelers have no offense. was about "to come unglued" 
Brister has completed just with an offense that ignored 26-of-55 passes for 216 yards many of the Steelers' strengths: in two games. The running his deep throws to Louis Lipps, game has 117 yards on 53 the running of Tim Worley and carries. They have only 24 first Merril Hoge. downs in two games. The Steelers tried all of those 
As Coach Chuck Noll said things against Houston, but Monday, it hasn't been just Brister was 9 of 23 for 81 Bubby Brister or an awful yards and Lipps had one catch running game or a line that for 9 yards. Worley had 50 keeps missing blocking yards on 17 carries, but Hoge assignments or wide receivers -the Steelers' postseason star that can't get open when last year with 220 yards in two Brister gets protection. It's games -has only 20 yards on been all of these things. 19 carries. 
"It wasn't just one person -Their Hoge-led power offense 
the Celtics have made no deal with the court, no deal with Brian," Dave Gavitt, the Celtics' chief of basketball operations, said during the news conference, which also featured Celtics coach Chris Ford. "There's been no renegotiation of contract. There's been no promise to renegotiate." 
Shaw said he was wrong in signing with the Celtics in Italy after leaving one agent and before hiring Jerome Stanley to represent him. 
"I felt at the time that I knew what I was doing and I could do everything myself," the 24­year-old player said. "The lesson that I've learned is I don't know it all." 
Shaw said he told the Celtics he had no representation when the new contract was negotiated. He said he is satisfied with the deal now, but did not say how he felt soon after signing it. 
After the news conference, Stanley said he could have gotten a better contract for Shaw, but avoided the question of whether the dispute arose as an attempt to renegotiate. 
"Right now is not the time to go over the terms of Brian's contract," he said. 
Did he feel the Celtics tried to rush Shaw into signing before he could hire an agent? 
"I obviously have clear feelings on that," Stanley said, "but right now it's really the time of year where the focus shifts from lawyers and transactions to X's and O's. It's really nothing else gained by rehashing the old facts." 
Shaw was Boston's first­round draft pick in 1988 out of Cal-Santa Barbara. He became a starter as a rookie and averaged 8.6 points and 5.8 assists per game. The Celtics 
Monday night but Steve Olin took his place. 
Black can become a free agent after the season. Because the trade took place after Aug. 31, he will not be able to partic­ipate in the playoffs, if Toronto qualifies. The Blue Jays began the night one game behind first-place Boston in the American League East. 
"It's exciting. For the next 2 1/2 weeks I'm going to be part of a pennant race," Black said. 
labeled him as a cornerstone of their team in the 1990s. 
When he signed with Boston last January, Shaw said, he agreed to exercise the option in his Italian contract allowing him to terminate it between June 20 and July 20. Starting on July 21, Mazzone fined Shaw $5,000 a day for contempt. 
Laura Carroll, Shaw's agent, said Monday that Mazzone agreed late last week to set the total fine at $50,000. Lawyers for Shaw and the Celtics met Monday morning to prepare a final order for Mazzone to approve, she added. She said Shaw, not the Celtics, would pay the fine. 
Gavitt said the Celtics agreed to drop their suit against Il Messaggero. 
"Both parties in the dispute are going to, obviously, have to do everything they can to protect their rights," Gavitt said. "The conversations between Brian and myself were always very positive." 
"In the past few weeks, there have been only constructive efforts on all sides," Carroll said. 

OUTDOORSADVENTURE! 
NEVER TRIED CAMPING? 
ONE-NIGHT CAMPING TRIP SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
POTATO CREEK STATE PARK 
REGISTRATION AND TRIP PREPARATION WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 6:30-9:00PM ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER CLASSROOM 
ROPE BRIDGES SHELTER BUILDING "OWL PROWLS" 
SPONSORED BY NVA 
of last year's AFC playoffs has become a hodgepodge of stuffed runs, poorly run pass routes and overthrown receivers. 
Worley apparently is as unhappy as Brister with Walton's possession offense, but doesn't dare risk angering Noll. Last week, Noll sharply rebuked Brister for refusing to accept Walton's new schemes and suggested he might look for a new quarterback to fit the system. 
"We're not playing very good. I mean, you guys can see what's going on," Worley said. ''I'm very frustrated, but I can't say what I want to say." 
The offense's problems also threaten to drive a wedge between those players, like Brister and Worley, who are unhappy with the system and those who aren't comfortable speaking their minds. 
''I'm not pleased with the of­fense, but it will come together with practice," Hoge said. 
Some players hinted Brister's impatience and stubborness have short circuited an offense that has produced just one touchdown in four games, counting the final two preseason games. But Noll said complaining, criticizing and cri­tiquing won't make things better. 

Baseball owners were ordered Monday to give players $102.5 million as compensation for the clubs' conspiracy against free agents during the 1987 and 1988 seasons. 
Arbitrator George Nicolau issued the decision following 3 1/2 years of hearings, but did not detail how much money would go to each player, ruling only on the total amount of damages. Further hearings will decide how the money is divided. 
The latest ruling joins the $10.5 million awarded to players last year by arbitrator Thomas Roberts, who heard the first of the three collusion cases. The total of approximately $113 million comes to $4,347,234 per team, and that does not include interest and a variety of other damages the union is seeking. 
Nicolau did not wish to comment on his ruling. He gave copies to the union and the PRC. Union head Donald Fehr said he would release the text of the decison on Tuesday. 
Arbitrators found owners guilty of suppressing salaries through a free-agent boycott following the 1985, 1986 and 1987 seasons. The arbitrators agreed with the union's claim that the boycott depressed salaries for all players. 
STARGAZING 



r---------------------------------------------~---------------------------­
Tuesday, September 18, 1990 
The Observer page 17 
Reds win; start pulling away from N.L. West 


a 4-0 victory over San
Reds 4, Giants 0 

Francisco. The victory reduced to 11 theJose Rijo pitched a two-hitter 
Reds' magic number for
and Paul O'Neill hit a two-run clinching their first division title homer Monday night to move since 1979. The Reds are tryingCincinnati a step closer to the to become the first NL team toNational League West title with 
SMC soccer wins again 
By TASHA TIGHT Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team improved its record to 4­0 after defeating Indiana University-Bloomington 1-0 Sunday afternoon. 
The first half started off slow but the game picked up to­wards the end of the half when freshman Jenny Kaplan one touched the ball into the far right corner of the goal. Junior Annie Hartzel was credited with the assist. 

"We got off to a slow start but by the second half the team pulled together to shut down the Hoosier club," said senior captain Marcie Gaus. 
Junior goalie Mary Alice "Mao" O'Neill turned in an out­standing performance and recorded her third shutout in four games. 

In the second half, the Belles defense contained IU's offense and remained strong through­out the game. The team worked together and the team spirit enabled the Belles to come away victorious. 
"Marcie Gaus, Kelly Cook, and Molly O'Connell contributed significantly to the win and the defense as a whole played extremely well," said captain Trish Troester, giving credit to the defense. 
The Belles travel to Wisconsin this weekend to face a highly competitive Marquette University club team on Friday. They will then battle a tough Division I University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee team on Saturday. 
lead the division every day of a The Giants managed just a 162-game season. first-inning double by Kevin The defending champion Bass and a ninth-inning single Giants fell 8 1/2 behind the by Bass against Rijo (11-8). The Reds with their fourth straight right-hander struck out 12, a loss. They've scored just five Reds high this season, and runs in the four games. walked two in his team-high 

Hal Morris and the Cincinnati Reds, pictured here in action against the Astros, are steadily leaving the rest of the NL West in the dust. 
and career-high fifth complete game. He has allowed three earned runs or fewer in 22 of his 26 staarts. 
Hal Morris lined a two-out single in the second inning for two runs after the Reds loaded the bases.Scott Garrelts walked Eric Davis to open the third inning and gave up O'Neill's 16th homer for a 4-0 lead. 
Dodgers 5, Braves 2 
Eddie Murray and Kal Daniels each had three hits, including run-scoring singles for the Dodgers, who won for the fourth time in four games. They remained 5 1/2 games behind Cincinnati with 15 games left. 
Murray, hitting .377 against the Braves this season with 15 RBis, drove in the Dodgers' first run in the third inning off Charlie Liebrandt (8-1 0). 
The Dodgers made it 2-0 in the sixth on a single by Daniels, Murray's double and a sacrifice fly by Mike Scioscia. 
The Dodgers added another run in the seventh on Daniels' run­scoring single. Daniels is hitting .378 against Atlanta this 

HERE'S WHY THE SMART MONEY AT UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME IS GOING WITH TIAA-CREF AS IF THE FUTURE DEPENDED ON IT. 
B 
ecause it does. Smart investors know that your future depends on how well your retirement system performs. TIAA-CREF has been the premier retirement system for people in education and research for over 70 years. We have enabled over 200,000 people like you to enjoy a comfortable retirement. And over 1,000,000 more are now planning for the future with TIAA-CREF. 
SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY, GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR 
RETIREMENT SAVINGS. Security-so the resources are there when it is time to retire. Growth-so you'll have enough income for the kind of retirement you want. And diversity-to help protect you against market volatility and to let you benefit from several types of investments. 
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT YOU GET 
WITH TIAA-CREF. TIAA offers you the safety of a traditional annuity that guarantees your principal plus a specified rate of interest, and provides for additional 
• The CREF Bond Market and Social Choice Accounts may not be available under all institutional retirement plans, but are available for all Supplemental Retirement Annuity plans. 
growth through dividends. CREF's variable annuity offers opportunities for growth through four different investment accounts, each managed with the long-term perspective essen­tial to sound retirement planning: 
The CREF Stock Account The CREF Money Market Account The CREF Bond Market Account* The CREF Social Choice Account* 
CALL 1-800-842-2776 1D FIND OUT MORE Our experienced retirement counselors 
will be happy to answer your questions and tell you more about retirement annuities from TIAA-CREF. 
Experience. Performance. Strength. Your future is protected by the largest private retirement system in the world. We have done so well, for so many, for so long, that we currently manage some $85 billion in assets. 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it."m 
season. 
Jose Offerman singled in Scioscia in the eighth and Hubie Brooks knocked in a run in the ninth with a bases-loaded groundout. 
AL races tightening 
Royals 1, Twins 0 
Steve Farr (11-7), usually a reliever, pitched a four-hitter over seven innings for his third win in four starts and Bo Jackson drove in the only run with a sixth-inning single. Steve Crawford went one inning and Jeff Montgomery pitched the ninth for his 20th save. 
Minnesota's Larry Casian (0­1), making his second major league start and his third appearance, went seven innings and yielded eight hits but three of them came in the 
....
sixth by Gary Thurman, Jeff Conine -his frrst major league hit-and Jackson. 
Jays 6, Yankees 4 
Kelly Gruber snapped a 4-4 tie with a two-out bloop single in the seventh inning and the surging Toronto Blue Jays won their fourth straight. 
A crowd of 49,902, Toronto's 62nd sellout of the season and 55th in a row, helped the Blue Jays set a major league attendance record with 3,635,821. The old mark of 3,608,881 was set by the 1982 Los Angeles Dodgers. The Blue Jays have five home games left. 
The Blue Jays erased 3-0 and 4-3 deficit against rookie Steve Adkins, making his second major league start. With two out in the eighth, Tony Fernandez singled off Eric Plunk (5-3), took second on a wild pitch and scored on Gruber's soft single. Manny Lee added an RBI single in the eighth. 
John Cerutti (9-9) got the win with one inning in relief of Todd Stottlemyre, who yielded a two-run homer to Jesse Barfield. Duane Ward and Tom 
Henke each pitched an inning,

For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call 1 800 842-2733, ext 5509 for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 
-------------~-------­

page 18 The Observer Tuesday, September 18, 1990 

Historically the Expos have 
Sports Soccer
been a team which stays in the race for most of the 
continued from page 20 continued from page 20
season and then drops out in Clemens may be rushing August. If first baseman 
score his 17th point, also 

back prematurely, to the Andres Galarraga and third 
against Valparaiso. starting lineup, though, and baseman Tim Wallach can "I got a lot of opportunities," 
it remains to be seen get hot, however, Montreal 
said Pendergast. "I've had a 

whether or not he will might reverse that trend 
couple of assists in the last few aggravate his shoulder completely. games, but I haven't put one in 
injury or even be effective 

(the goal) in a while. It feels against the Yankees. Finally, the Los Angeles good to get back on track." 
There is also a new twist Dodgers could make things to the National League East interesting in the NL West. Last night's game was also race. For most of the second They won two out of three the first career shutout for 
half of the season that over the weekend against the goalkeeper Peter Gulli, and the 
division looked like it would division-leading Cincinnati first since the Irish blanked be a two-team battle for the Reds. The Dodgers are Loyola 3-0 on October 26 of title. The Pittsburgh Pirates probably out of it, since the last year. have played outstanding Reds play 10 of their last 16 "It feels good," said Gulli, but baseball all season, and the games at home, but as long he isn't taking all of the credit. New York Mets have been as Tommy Lasorda is "The defense played reallychallenging the Bucs for the running things in the dugout well," he said. "I didn't have to 
lead ever since they fired L.A. shouldn't be taken do much." 
Manager Davey Johnson and lightly. hired Bud Harrelson in his Coach Berticelli was pleasedplace. Okay, so the AL West was with the performance of his 
A third horse has entered decided a long time ago, but troops. "We wanted to get a the race, though. The that was to be expected. The goal early, and we did that," he Montreal Expos, fresh off a A's are simply awesome, and said. "The players maintained three-game sweep of the they most likely will render tactically. It was a very physical Pirates, had pulled to within the rest of the pennant races game, and I'm glad our players
5 1/2 games of the division­meaningless in the American kept their composure. Theyleading Bucs before last League Championship Series made an easy game of what night's game against the and the World Series. could have been a tough, physi­
Chicago Cubs. The Mets are cal game." in trouble because they must For now, though, sports play 10 of their last 16 fans will be hard-pressed to The next game for the Irish 
games on the road, and they 1 find anything more exciting will take place on Wednesday are 32-39 on the season in the world of sports than night, as Notre Dame will host away from Shea Stadium. the pennant races. MCC foe Detroit. 
Broncos beat Chiefs on last-second field goal 
DENVER (AP)-John Elway up Treadwell's kick as the three early field goals by Nick with 11 minutes left. Brooks which he cut behind Dave completed a 49-yard, fourth-clock ran out. Lowery. had the key sack of De Berg Widell's block, broke a last down pass to set up David The win kept Denver from Denver stopped Kansas City with four minutes left after stab by Porter and raced into Treadwell's 22-yard winning falling into a deep hole in the on its next possession, largely the Chiefs had pulled within the endzone. It was the first field goal as the Denver AFC West as it evened its because of a sack of DeBerg five points. rushing touchdown against Broncos blew a 12-point record at 1-1. Kansas City, by Michael Brooks. Denver Atwater made perhaps the Kansas City in 26 quarters. fourth-quarter lead and which hasn't won at Denver seemed set to put the game biggest defensive play of the Lowery cut it to 7-6 3:27 rallied to beat Kansas City 24-since 1982, is also 1-1. away when Treadwell missed game, stopping Christian into the second period with 23 Monday night. DeBerg, who finished 26-the field goal. Okoye, who finished with 69 his 29-yarder, which followed 
Treadwell's field goal came for-45 for 395 yards, hit Paige Humphrey, held to 24 yards yards on 20 carries, for a a drive by the Chiefs from after Steve DeBerg had about his own 40 on the right in a 14-9 loss to the Raiders yard loss on a third-and-2 at their own 26 to the Denver thrown two touchdown passes sideline and the receiver, who last week, scored on a 36-the Denver 10 with the score 10. But Atwater penetrated in the final eight minutes to also caught a 16-yard touch-yard run in the first period 7-3 in the second quarter. on third down to force the turn a 21-9 deficit into a 23-down pass, broke a tackle by and a 6-yard burst in the The loss was the eighth Chiefs to settle for the kick. 21 lead for the Chiefs. The Kip Corrington and raced un-second. straight at Mile High Stadium Denver came right back, go-second scoring pass was an touched into the end zone. Elway scored on a 2-yard for the Chiefs, and Marty ing 80 yards in seven plays to 83-yarder to Stephone Paige, quarterback draw in the third Schotteheimer, their coach, is make it 14-6 on Humphrey's who caught 10 passes for 206 Denver had led most of the period and kept two drives now 0-6 against Elway in 6-yard burst behind Widell. yards. game on two touchdown runs alive with two long Cleveland and Kansas City. One play earlier, Elway had 
But facing a fourth-and-tO by Humphery and another by completions to Johnson as the Kansas City took a 3-0 lead hit Johnson for 43 yards on a at his own 17, Elway, who Elway and was still ahead 21-defending AFC champions with 3:38 left in the first fleaflicker. was 14-for-30 for 263 yards, 9 with 9:30 left when Albert avoided starting the season period on Lowery's 39-yard Lowery's 31-yarder made it found Vance Johnson Lewis, just activated after a with two division losses. field goal, set up when Horan 14-9 at halftime after Lewis streaking across the middle bitter holdout, blocked a punt Kansas City was kept at bay shanked a punt just 16 yards recovered a fumble by Orson and he carried the ball to the by Mike Horan. It rolled 40 by a defense led by Steve to give the Chiefs a first down Mobley at the Denver 43. The Kansas City 34. yards down the field and was Atwater, Simon Fletcher and at the Denver 16. Chiefs reached the 5, but an 
Elway then hit Mark recovered by Kevin Porter at Brooks. But the Broncos needed less offensive pass interference Jackson for 16 yards, and Denver 17. Two plays later, Fletcher had two sacks, than two minutes to come call on Pete Mandley and Bobby Humphery, who DeBerg hit Paige with a 16-both of which forced fumbles, back, going 76 yards in just Fletcher's sack of DeBerg 
.... finished with 132 yards on 19 yard TD pass for the Chiefs' including one after the Chiefs five plays capped by forced them to settle for three carries, raced to the 4 to set first tounchdown following had reached the Denver 13 Humphrey's 35-yard run, on points. 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
They're becoming more famil­iar with it. Still, the weaknesses in the defense are glaring if you don't block." 

The setting is a long way off 
too. 
"Our low hitting percentage (.199) is a reflection of the set­ting," explained Lambert. "We have good hitters but the set­ting has been inconsistent. I'm still waiting for one of them (Karlan or senior Amy White) to emerge. The two of them are nip and tuck. Who plays depends on what kind of team we're playing. I really don't care which one emerges." 
Even hitting needs work. 
"Our middle attack isn't 
where it should be." said 
Lambert. "Jennifer Slosar still 
being out doesn't help the hit­
ting situation earlier." 
So for now it's back to the practice floor to try and iron out the bugs and get it right for this weekend. 

MICHIGAN STATE TICKET LOTTERY WHEN: MON, SEPT 17 AND TUES, SEPT 18 6 pm -8 pm WHERE: STEPAN CENTER You must bring Student ID and you may bring only ONE other. 100 winners may buy 2 tickets on Thurs., Sept. 20 4 pm -6 pm at Stepan. Winners will be printed in the Observer on Thursday. 

~--~ ----------------~ 

Tuesday, September 18, 1990 
The Observer page 19 

•

CROSSWORD
LECTURE CIRCUIT ACROSS 35 Boot out 64 Mature 
Tuesday 1 Lower 37 Propelled a 65 Triumph in a dinghy close call at the 
6 Des Moines's 
40 Runs in track 
Interests and Policies in the Middle East." John Gilligan, 10 Hind's mate 42 Glossy silk 68 Nonpareil fabric 
4:15 p.m. "Behind the Red, White, and Blue: US locale 
Shuster professor and director, Institute for 14 Take it easy 69 Gloomy Dean International Peace Studies. Room 121 Law School. 15 Bedou1n. e.g. 44 Davis or Midler 70 Aviator Balbo 
7 p.m. Arts and Letters placement night. Representa­16 Kind of way 45 Lucid 71 Network of tives from Leo Burnett, Northern Trust, and U.S. Office 17 Bystander, often 47 Sch. head nerves of Personnel Management. Sponsored by Career and 48 Clarinet
19 Lake or canal 72 RequirePlacement Services. Hesburgh Ubrary Auditorium. attachment
20 Touch is one 73 Material for a
7 p.m. Representatives from Procter and Gamble 21 Actor Erwin 50 Auto-map abbr. lecture (Management Systems) to discuss career opportunities 51 Proofreader's
22 Extinct birds 
with electrical engineering students. Notre Dame, Morris direction
23 Rags 
DOWN
Inn. 52 Ratite bird 
26 Intruder in the dust 54 The--New 1 Exist 
27 Blueprint datum, York Bay sect1on 2 Former Ottoman for short 57 Slams into bigwigs 31 Before: Prefix 3 Sheltered, at sea
59 New Deal meas. 32 Pub item 60 Lardner's "--4 Cut, as by a 
34 Rip Ike" carpenter 5 Live 6 Author Fleming 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
MENUS 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
1 Tragedy by 
Euripides 8 Trash 
N.E. Clam Chowder Breaded Veal Steak Baked Cajun Scrod Chicken and Bean Tostado 9 Ridiculous BBQ Ribs Pasta Vegetable Bake 10 Hold back Vineyard Veg w/ cheese Deli Bar 11 Bellflower or 
foxglove Quebec 63 Part of an36 So much. in 55 Marie Antomette 
12 Suffix with sect archipelago
Milano 

was one 13 --host (TV 38 Entertainer 56 An anagram for 66 Every river has 
oxymoron) one
Adams nails 18 Tempest 1n a 39 Misshape from a 58 Withered 67 Dawn goddess minor mishap 24 Support for a 
41 Observed Answers to any three clues in this bridge 43 Degree of 

puzzle are available by touch-tone 25 F D.R.'s mother freedom 
phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75(t each 27 Pierce 46 Adjust properly minute). 
JAY HOSLER

GARY LARSON SPELUNKER
THE FAR SIDE
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
------------------------------~ 

..
JUSi GI'IE ME

~ERE, MMEE ~IS \11\U. W¥£ 
~OUR ~HI~\ES.

MORt. stNSE. I \1~'-JE E\G\-\1 
GOOO. 1-\0W t-1-IJCI\ 1-\0NE'I 00 [ 

PENK\E'5. r ~'S¥.. '(OO VCR 
talJR MORE. 
\4!>-.'JE NOW? 
_.. 
GARY LARSON

GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE 

• 

49 "Natural selection" 61 Two theorist prepositions in 52 Mistake one 53 A neighbor of 62 What not to rock 




''Well we both knew there'd be some adjustments

"... lousy food ... crummy service ... dinky rooms ... 
~ovtng from a small town to a big city:•

and that's only the tip of the Iceberg!" 
Sports

page 20 Tuesday, September 18, 1990 
Injuries deplete Irish starting unit 
Lyght doubtful for Mich. St.; Reggie Brooks likely fill-in 

By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's offense faced a Michigan secondary Saturday night that returned all four starters from last season, boasted an All-American safety and is arguably the best in the country. 
Monday at Krause Stadium, that same offense lined up op­posite a secondary that re­turned one starter from last season -an All-American cornerback who will likely miss his next game. 
All-American cornerback and Thorpe Award favorite Todd Lyght will be doubtful for next Saturday' s game against Michigan State because of a troublesome hamstring injury aggravated last Saturday against Michigan. 
"It appears exceptionally doubtful that Todd Lyght will be able to play in the game," Head Coach Lou Holtz an­nounced after Monday's prac­tice. "Will he be able to play? I'm not counting on it." 
Lyght, who pulled the ham­string early in preseason prac­tice, aggravated the injury on the last play before halftime on Saturday when he leaped high in the air to break up a pass in­tended for Michigan split end Derrick Alexander at the Notre Dame 20. 
"Lyght played an exceptional football game," Holtz said. "When you look at the film, you see that. (His injury} curtails some things you can do. We'll have four gentlemen in there who haven't played a whole lot." 
Lyght's absence in the Irish secondary means that a fresh­man will probably start at field cornerback, a big task consid­ering that Spartan quarterback Dan Enos is the top returnee in Big 10 total offense (214. 5 yards per game} and an All-Big 10 candidate. 
"There's a good chance Greg Lane could go," Holtz said, "but I don't want to say until I see him this week in practice." 
The short cornerback as­signment should go to Reggie Brooks, who replaced Rod Smith after Smith yielded 
By Rich Kurz 
Sports Writer 

They were due for one. After four gut-wrenching games in the past week, including three close losses and one tie, the Notre Dame men's soccer team finally won a Iaugher, knocking off Valparaiso 6-0 to raise its record to 2-3-1. 
The Crusaders, who started only one player older than a sophomore, were clearly out­matched from the start. It took the Irish only 1:22 to notch their first score, when Steve LaVigne took a pass from Kevin Pendergast and scored on an empty net after outdribbling two Valparaiso players. 
The Notre Dame attack was just getting warmed up. Just 
.._ over nine minutes later, Pendergast picked up the sec­ond of his three assists when he lined a crossing shot that a diving Danny Stebbins headed into the goal to put the Irish up 2-0. 
After warming up with two assists, Pendergast finally got a chance to join the goal-scoring parade when a Crusader undercut him inside the goal box, leading to a penalty shot. Valparaiso goalkeeper Rich Naden didn't have a prayer of stopping the penalty kick, which Pendergast buried deep in the right corner of the net. 
Pendergast must have enjoyed scoring his first goal, because soon thereafter he scored his second. Tom Connaghan nailed a crossing shot from deep in the left side, which Pendergast redirected into the goal. Before the game was even a quarter of the way over, a shell-shocked Valparaiso team was staring at a 4-0 deficit. 
Evidently frustrated by the course of the game, the Crusaders turned extremely physical, and Valparaiso picked up two yellow cards in separate incidents just minutes after 
Pennant races heat as weather cools 
Earlier this month it appeared as though September would be lukewarm for baseball fans. As the weather cools down, though, the pennant races are heating up, and it looks like fans are in for a treat. 
Just over two weeks ago it looked
• 
like the Boston Red Sox had the American League East title sewn up. The Sox had won 10 straight games and were 6 1/2 games ahead of the second-place Toronto Blue Jays when the Oakland A's visited Fenway for a three-game series. 
Ken Tysiac 
World of Sports 
The A's swept Boston and sent the Sox spiraling into a skid during which they won just four of fourteen games. Meanwhile, the Blue Jays crept up slowly, and before last night's games they were just 1 1/2 games behind Boston. 
The drama in the East is compounded by the mysterious injury to two-time Cy Young Award winner Roger Clemens. The Red Sox ace, who sports a lofty 20-6 record, 204 strikeouts, and a miniscule 1.98 ERA, hurt his shoulder on September 5 in a 6-2 loss to the A's. Clemens is expected to make his first start since that injury this Friday against the New York Yankees. 



touchdown passes of 44 and 25 yards to flanker Desmond Howard on Saturday. Brooks recorded a game-saving inter­ception in the closing minutes of the contest. 
"There is a very good chance Reggie will start," Holtz said. "He's earned the right to." 
Freshmen John Covington, who saw action on special teams Saturday, and Tom Carter also could see some playing time against Michigan State. 
Tailback Dorsey Levens, who injured his knee running in Syracuse, New York over the summer, should be ready for action Saturday.... Kicker Billy Hackett will be out indefi­nitely with a partially torn thigh muscle injured in last Thursday's practice.... Split end Ray Griggs hurt his ankle when he landed on someone else's ankle Saturday night in the celebration following Adrian Jarrell's winning touch­down catch.... Offensive 
Reggie Brooks, pictured here after action against the Michigan

tackle Stuart Tyner is still re­
Wolverines, is the likely candidate to replace the injured Todd Lyght.

covering from mononucleosis. 
Pendergast, men's soccer pummel Valpo 
Pendergast's second goal. 
Valparaiso had its best chance to score at the 26:15 mark when the Crusaders's Brian Thiel hit Mark Biedl with a crossing shot. Biedl couldn't capitalize on the situation how­ever, sending his shot just right of goal. 
The Irish attack slowed down for the rest of the half, as the only chance they had to score in the rest of the period came when the Crusader's Naden covered a tipped shot just a fraction of a second before Pendergast could get to it. 
Notre Dame substituted freely in the second half, allow­ing some players who see lim­ited action to gain some game experience. Sophomore trans­fer Brendan Murphy took ad­vantage of his extended playing time, bicycling in a pass from Pendergast to notch his first goal for the Irish at the 51: 12 mark, putting ND up 5-0. 
What was already a terrible situation for the Crusaders got worse. Their leading scorer, Brian Thiel, was ejected with his second yellow card at the 
67:20 point, and Scott Nobbe received his second yellow card 12 minutes later, forcing Valparaiso to play with only eight players. 
Freshman Mike Palmer was able to use ND's two-man ad­vantage to score the first goal of his Notre Dame career. Palmer headed in a pass from Kenyon Meyer at the 74:53 mark to end the scoring with Notre Dame ahead 6-0. 
Kevin Pendergast's seven points on his two goals and three assists established a per­sonal high for points in game. It also gave him a team-leading 17 points in only six games on the year. It took Pendergast un­til the 14th game last year to 
see Soccer I page18 
-SMC soccer beats I.U., p. 17 
-Chiefs fall to Broncos, p. 18 
-Shaw returns to Celtics, p. 16 
-Atlanta wants 1996 Olympics, p. 11 

Irish volleyball 4-4 after weekend 
By MIKE KAMRADT 
Sports Writer 

The women's volleyball team still hasn't found what it's looking for: consistency. 
"I was disappointed because we should have beat Kentucky," said head coach Art Lambert. "They're not a very good team and that's not a good reflection on us. We played very well against Louisville. I was pleased with the way we didn't quit." 
So goes the season so far for the Irish -one bad tournament, one good one. One bad match, one good one. Against Kentucky the Irish fell13-15,7­15,15-6,10-15. The Irish committed a whopping 14 ser­vice errors and hit only .180 for the match. The Wildcats didn't play outstanding by any means, as they committed 18 service errors of their own and hit a mere .239. 
Notre Dame turned things around against the Cardinals of Louisville. The Irish were down 10-3 before coming off the floor to win 15-11. It was deja vu in game two as the Cardinals pulled out to a 9-3 advantage. Once again the Irish rallied to win, this time 15-12. After dropping game three 15-10, the Irish rallied a third time to win the match 16-14 and raise their season tally to 4-4. 
"The win against Louisville was especially satisfying be­cause we had a young team on the floor," said Lambert. 
Freshmen setter Janelle Karlan and middle blocker Molly Stark, sophomores Alicia Turner, Marilyn Cragin, and Jessica Fiebelkorn, and seniors Tracey Shelton and Colleen Wagner (subbing for Cragin} led the Irish to victory. 
"Turner was exceptional"this weekend," said Lambert. "She served and hit very well." 
Turner racked up eight ser­vice aces and 13 kills in the two matches. Cragin continued to assert herself as she registered 13 kills against Kentucky and 11 against Louisville. 
"I think she's coming along well," said Lambert. "She didn't do quite as well as in our own tournament. She seemed kind of tired." 
Fiebelkorn continued to block well in the middle. She recorded six block solos and seven assists to raise her total to 40. At this pace, she'll break Mary Kay Waller's season record set in 1988. 
Still the Irish have a great deal of room for improvement in areas such as blocking. 
"We blocked horribly against Kentucky and.better against Louisville," said Lambert. "Our new defense is coming along, but it's not easy to learn. 
see Irish page18 





