

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Judge orders Reagan to turn over diaries to Poindexter 
WASIIIN(;TON (AP)-A fed­day, a move that could trigger he would provide the former eral judgn Tuesday ordered a claim of executive privilege by president and the .I ustice De­formnr President Heagan to the former president and might partment with a secret docu­provid1~ excerpts of his personal delay the Feb. 20 starting date ment Poindexter submitted to diaries to .John Poindexter for of the Poindexter trial. the court outlining why he the former national security Reagan submitted more than needs the diaries. adviser's upcoming Iran-Contra 100 diary entries to the judge After court filings by all trial. last Thursday. Greene said en­sides, including Iran-Contra 
U.S. District Court Judge tries covering more than 29 dif­prosecutors, the court will ll;u·old Grnene said a 1985 en­ferent dates in 1985 and 1986 "make a final decision with re­try includes a "somewhat am­contain "information of signifi­spect to enforcement of the biguous comment" indicating cance." subpoena" for the diaries, that Heagan knew of Poindex­Theodore Olson, one of Hea­Greene said. tm's work for thf' Nicaraguan gan's lawyers, declined to Reagan was ordered to give Contras. comment. Poindexter a diary entry relat­
Grenne said Hr.agan must If Heagan balks at turning ing to a "successful" trip su1-rPnd1~r tlw matprial by Mon-over th(\ material, Greene said Poindexter took in December 
South African police battle blacks during demonstration 
JOIIANNI·:SBUHG. South Africa (AP) An approved protest by about 500 -l'olirP usf'd batons. rubber bullets people outside the stadium was allowed and tear gas Tuesday to pmvent 1,000 to take place. blacks from marching on a stadium to Police also fired tear gas at 150 black protPst a boycott-busting English squatters protesting their eviction from crirkPl team's match against a South Kraaifontein, a neighborhood desig­African university team. nated for whites outside Cape Town. 
Tlw cricket tr.am's tour has caused The Rev. Allan Boesak. a prominent confrontations r.very place the visiting anti-apartheid activist, was among crirkr>tr>rs have appeared, including those affected by the tear gas. tlwir hotels. wherp black employees Police in Cape Town urged the public rf'fusl' to servP them. Tlw team is defy­to stay out of the city center Wednesday ing an international ban on sports con­and Friday "because people are bound tart with South Africa. to get hurt" when action is taken to 
Tlwre also were demonstrations by stop planned protest marches to police blaek squattPrs in rising politieal unrest headquarters and Parliament. only thren days befow Prnsident F.W. The march organizers refuse to seek dn KINk is to open Parliamr.nt. He is official permission, and police Capt. Gys expnrlPd to discuss rf'forms in South Boonzaaier said, "The police are Africa and ease the emergency regula­obliged to act if the gathering is illegal. tions in fon~e since 1986 to quell anti­We are going to take action and dis­apartheid activity. perse them .... We would like to urge the 
A pro-gowrnment newspaper. The Ci­public to stay away ... as people are 
tizen. prndieted that de Klerk would end bound to get hurt." 
news media restrictions but probably Since de Klerk became president, the 
not ease other regulations. It also said government has allowed several mas­
the release from prison of black nation­sive marches to take place without the 
alist NP!son Mandela could be delayed organizers seeking permission. De 
b1~cause of the unrest. Klerk was quoted as telling police 
The stadium clash between police and commanders two weeks ago that they 
blacks was at Bloemfontein, in the Or­are no longer "required to prevent peo­
ange Frne State. ple from gathering to gain support for 
One policeman punched a black teen­their views." 
ager in the chest with a baton, another 
pressed his truncheon around a black But police officials say as long as 
youth's neck to bring him down, as there are regulations against "illegal 
some demonstrators threw stones at gatherings" -those without magiste­
police vehides and erncted burning tire rial permission police must act to 
barricades in the streets of Mangaung stop them. 
township. 
Obed Nkosi. an organizer for the anti­The stage is set for a major con­
apartheid National Sports Council, said frontation Friday, when black activists 
30 people were hurt. hope to have 10,000 people marching 
Police said 45 people were arrested toward Parliament as de Klerk makes 
and one white businessman was slightly his speech outlining his plans for re­
injured when his vehicle was stoned by forms leading to negotiations with the 
protesters. black majority on a new constitution. 

Court decision to have little impact on NO 
1985 to Central America. 
"The entry includes a some­what ambiguous comment ar­guably indicating that the former president knew" of Poindexter's "activities on be­half of the Contras," Greene said. 
The judge said Poindexter is entitled to diary entries in which Reagan describes an ef­fort to persuade the govern­ment of Honduras to release a seized arms shipment that had been destined for the Contras. 
Greene also said Poindexter must receive diary entries fo­cusing on U.S. military-type as­sistance to an unidentified Cen­tral American country that may have been used in support of the Contras. 
The entries "may show what types of aid President Reagan thought could legally be pro­vided for the military or paramilitary operations of the Contras," Greene said. 
Poindexter also is entitled to Reagan's diary entries concern­ing meetings with Poindexter and others in December 1985 
see DIARY I page 6 



BY JANICE O'LEARY 
Assistant News Editor 
Editor's note: this is the third of a five-part series. 
A major concern for many students at Notre Dame is the rising cost of attending the University. 
"Tuition is increasing at a rate higher than inflation and the cost of living. As a result there is a lot of criticism di­rected toward many colleges," said Joe Russo, director of fi. nancial aid. 
At Notre Dame there are sev­eral reasons, according to 

Financial Aid 
Russo. for this disproportion­ate increase: 
• 
Faculty salaries 

• 
Computer upgrading 

• 
Library improvements 

• 
Insurance costs 

• 
Benefits 

• 
Building maintenance 


As the issue of rising tuition is raised, so is the issue of 
see AID/ page 6 

By MONICA YANT 
News Writer 

Editor's Note: This is the second in a two-part series 
The U.S. Supreme Court's recent decision opening peer review files in cases of sus­pected discrimination will not have a major impact on tenure procedures at Notre Dame or other universities, according to several law professors. 
The ruling will, however, "push professors to do what they should do: back up claims with evidence," said John Robinson, director of the Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government. 

"It is certainly not going to affect my appraisals of peo­ple up for promotion," said Donald Kommers, govern­ment and law professor. 
Some evaluators might, however, be reluctant to re­view candidates for fear that their statements could be taken to court, he said. The element of confidentiality which had protected evalua-
High tuition costs require more aid and scholarships
tors in the past is no longer absolute. 
The decision puts universi­ties "in no worse of a situa­tion than other employers lin the sense that records must be made available},"said Fernand Dutile, associate dean of the Law School. "My guess is that it won't affect Notre Dame much until actual liti­gation develops." 
Dutile said that further litigation is still a possibility in determining how much in­formation in files is actually relevant to the case of sus­pected discrimination. 
see COURT I page 4 

vOL. XXIII NO. 79 WEDNESDAY , JANUARY 31, 1990 
The Observer Wednesday, January 31, 1990
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
D.C. lacking 


mayor to fill Barry's shoes 
WANTED: human, animal, vegetable, or mineral interested in running the nation's capital. No political experience necessary. Must have under­standing of the following: sex, drugs, and how to dodge law Monica Yant enforcement officials News Copy Editor for months on end. 
In light of the recent exodus of Mayor Marion Barry to a rehab center in a warmer climate, Washington, D.C.. is in need of an interim, if not permanent, leader. 
Any one of the following is more than capable of filling Barry's shoes, as soon as they become dislodged from his mouth: 
•Sonny 
Bono: he's certainly qualified. As mayor of the ever-powerful Palm Springs, he attacked the city's money crisis with the ultimate in fundraising-selling T-shirts of himself. Such a scheme could do wonders for Washington's financial and fashion woes. 

•Mrs. 
Garrett, the wonderful matriarch of television's "Facts of Life": Edna did such a good job keeping those prep school girls in line that she'd have no trouble with D.C. gang lords. Of course, she'd have to bring Nancy McKeon (Jo, the killer tomboy from New York) with her as a top aide, in case the mayor needed to rough anybody up a bit. 

•Colman 
McCarthy and son, Notre Dame student Jim: This would be ingenious, like tag-team roller derby. Papa is a vocal lib­eral and peace advocate, while son Jim is a self-described "reactionary conservative." This duality in party allegiance would so confuse D.<:. residents, and political opposi­tion, that success and reform would be inevitable. 

•Zamlir: 
Although I've forgotten whether Zamfir is a person or musical instrument, the lulling melodies flowing from the album, "The Magic of Zamfir" could be a therap1~utic boost for crack addicts. Eco­nomical (the album sells for less than $30, and Mayor Barry earned much more than that each year) and cultural, "The Magic of Zamfir" is more than a good bet to solve the city's drug problems. 

•Anybody 
BUT Jesse Jackson: a rule of thumb about holding political office is that the holder should want that particular posi­tion. In all honesty. Jesse Jackson wants the mayorship of Washington about as much as Hev. Martin Luther King would have wanted former Arizona Gov. E·v Mecham in the office. Let Jackson continue his crusade, however realistic it is, toward the oval office. 



WANTED: Anyone with the guts to step into a living nightmare, courtesy of Marion Barry, who is a bit busy at the moment, "healing his body, mind and soul." 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Tuesday's Staff  
Sporls  News  Systems  
Greg Guffey  John O'Brien  Deb Walker  
Chris Cooney  Peter Loftus  Mark Sloan  
Tim Quinn  
Production  Accent  
Chris Labaree  Paige A. Smoron  Sports Wednesday  
Kristin Costello  Barbara Bryn  Molly Mahoney  
Christina Ortiz  
VIewpoint  Graphics  
Molly Schwartz  Ad Design  Bradford J. Boehm  
Kathleen Walsh  Shannon Roach  
Lisa Eaton  Shiela Jones  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 

Pressure 
®© 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
WORLD 

Soviet government figures have confirmed what President Daniel Ortega Monday in Managua. Soviet shoppers already know: most industries in 1989 Nicaragua promised to free more than 1,000 political and failed miserably at fulfilling President Mikhail Gor­rebel prisoners before next month's national elections. bachev's promise of more consumer goods. Wheat farm­His announcement was widely seen as a move to upstage ers had a good year, but they were about the only ones in his main opponent in the presidential racn, Violeta Bar­agriculture, according to statistics printed in most rios de Chamorro. Barrios has drawn enthusiastic re­Moscow newspapers this weekend. After an investment of sponses at rallies for promising to free all political pris­$110 billion in agriculture in 1989, food production rose oners if she wins the election, viewed as a referendum on just 1 percent-not the 6.6 percent expected. a decade of Sandinista rule. 
NATIONAL 

Canadian geese that wintered in Reno, Nev.. have Depressed patients who wPre tn~atPd by computer avoided a planned «taste-aversion" program designed to during an experiment conducted in NPw York City im­make them literally sick of roasting there. Due to the proved as much as those who consulted a human ttiPra­unusually mild winter, most of the 13,000 geese have pist, suggesting an economical trl'atment for a condition flown back home since January, thus causing officials to afnicting millions. Depression strikes about 10 million postpone the program until next winter. The taste aver­Americans within any six-month pPriod. Human thera­sion program involves putting a non-lethal chemical on pists can now treat only a fraction of that numbm, but grasses at area parks, lakes, ranches and golf courses to using computers might let them n~ach more. make the birds sick and drive them away from the Reno area, over the Sierra Nevada into California. 
A government-sponsored study indicates that The chairman of the House Armed Services Commit­high doses of fluoride may cause cancer in male rats. but tee, Les Aspin, D-Wis., accused the Bush administration public health officials in Washington cautioned Tuesday Tuesday in Washington of putting "a political gun to the that the findings are preliminary. Officials also said the head" of lawmakers with a partisan list of military base findings do not suggest that tooth-decay-fighting fluoride closings. Aspin said Defense Secretary Dick Cheney's list in drinking water and toothpaste could cause cancer in of more than 72 domestic facilities and 14 overseas in­humans. The high doses contained fluoride in far greater stallations that would be closed or scaled back had amounts than humans are exposed to in toothpaste and "potential." But he objected strongly to the way the ad­water. ministration wants Congress to deal with the list. 
OF INTEREST 

Operation Just Cause -the military operation in The Native American Students at Notre Danw Panama-will be the topic of a lecture today at 4 p.m. in will be serving Indian tacos tomorrow at the CentPr for Washington Hall. Lieutenant General Thomas Kelly, dircc-Social Concerns from 11:30 -1:30. All arc wnleome. 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 31. 30 1 0 Lines show high temperatures. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Wea1her, Inc. 
Yesterday's High: 45 
Yesterday's Low: 27 
Nation's High: 86 (Ft. 
Myers, Fla.) 
Nation's Low: -19 (Thief 
River Falls, Minn.) 
Forecast: Sunny today, high around 40. Increasing cloudiness tonight with a 40 percent chance of showers toward day­break. Temperatures steady in the upper 30s. Cloudy Thursday with a 70 percent chance of showers, high in the middle 40s. 

tor of operations for the joint staff organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staffs, U.S. Army, will give a 45-minute presentation followed by a question and answer session. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE Closings for January 30. 1990 

Alan Matheney. charged with killing his former wife while he was on a prison furlough, received an April 2 trial date Tuesday in Crown 
Volume in shares Point in his first Lake County Court appearance. 186.03 Million The case had been set for trial Jan. 8 but was moved when Matheney won a change of venue, claiming extensive news coverage made a fair trial impossible in St. Joseph County. Matheney, NYSE Index 39, is charged with murder in the March 4 beat­178.43 {7 1.30 ing death of Lisa Bianco, 29, outside her S&P Composite Mishawaka home. 322.98 {7 2.22 
Dow Jones IndustrialsIndianapolis police will continue to make 2543.24 {710.14

periodic weekend sweeps through Monument Cir­cle after a group of teen-agers attacked riders on Precious Metals a downtown trolley. Police arrested 26 people 
Gold {7 $1.00 to $418.10 I oz. 

near the circle between 7 p.m. and 3 a.m. Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Patrols by a team of 35 Silver{7 0.4¢ to $5.207 I oz. officers were prompted by a Jan. 21 incident 
Source: AP

when more than a dozen teen-agers attacked birthday revelers on a trolley. 
ALMANAC 
On January 31: 
e In 1865: Gnn. Hobnrt E. Lee was named commander-in­chief of the Confederate armies. 
e In 1917: Germany served notice it was beginning a policy of unrestricted submarine war­fare. 
e In 1950: President Tru­man announced he had ordered development of the hydrogen bomb. 
e In 1958: The U.S. entered the Space Age with its first suc­cessful launch cf a satellite into orbit, Explorer tl. 

r---------------------------~------------------------------~----------------------------~--------------~------------------.-----~-------­
The Observer page 3 


Study says students should relate success now with success later 

for self for these children might derfully responsive." 

By BETSY PUNSALAN 
News Writer involve graduating , getting a Elementary schoolchildren 
job and owning a nice car. The were chosen for the study for 

Schoolchildren must realize feared self might include being "purely pragmatic" reasons. that doing well in school now is homeless or jobless. "We con­The fifth and sixth grade age related to their future success nect those hoped-for and group used in the first studyin life, according to Jeanne feared selves to what they can were selected because readingDay, associate professor of the do right now. If you work hard comprehension is easy to teach Notre Dame psychology de­in school, you are more likely to to that level. Third, fourth and partment. get to your hoped-for self." fifth graders were used in the 
As part of a 3-member re­As an example of their inter­second study because a fresh search team, Day is conducting vention study program, Day group of students were needed. a study on how to prevent stu­explained howshe and her col­Older students will be tested in dents from dropping out of leagues gave some students a the next study. school. The study is funded by a chance to samolc different oc­"[Hispanics] have a very high 3-year grant from the National cupations. They set up realistic drop-out rate," Day said in ex­Institute of Health and has work stations to simulate the plaining why this particular been underway for 18 months. job surroundings of a judge, group was chosen for study.
The research team devised an physician and airline pilot. "They are also an increasingintervention program which "Children don't have a real population so I think it is so­they arc testing on Hispanic good idea about what different cially significant. The Hispanic
South Bend elementary school jobs arc, what you actually do," community needs Hispanic doc­students. Day explained. Through pro­tors, Hispanic lawyers and "Our first study involved grams such as this one, Day's teachers, and they don't have teaching academic skills Ito research team hopes to give very. many of those right now." 
students] and interviewing par­students an incentive to stay in The grant received by Day'sents," Day said in describing school. research team requested a the two main phases of the in­"We don't have the long-term study of minorities, but Day tervention program. "The sec­data at this point about noted that the effectiveness of ond major wave of the study whether or not they do in fact the intervention program is not 
has to do with a 'possible drop-out from school [after limited to Hispanics.selves' intervention, but then undergoing the intervention also intervening with parents." program]," Day said in explain­Day explained her motivation 
Day explained "possible ing the potential success of her to work in this area as an selves intervention" as a psy­study. "What we do have is "interest in reading compre­chological concept involving a anecdotal reports from the hension;'' She chose this partic­"hoped-for seir' and a "feared children saying things like ular study when she realized self.n 'school is important." "that there is a large drop-out "We're using the idea on "We have had a good deal of rate and that there are things these children of the 'hoped­success with the parents. They that could be done that seem for' and 'feared ' selves in an really responded very posi­fairly straightforward that 
effort to get them through high tively," Day said, adding that might help these children get school," Day said. The hoped-"The community has been won-through school." 
Buckle Up For Spring Break '90 
ti\lJiJ~OO'lJ~@OO FIRST TIME BORROWERS STAFFORD AND/OR SUPPLEMENTAL LOANS 
The University of Notre Dame is committed in helping you understand the borrowing and repayment process of your student loan. We have made arrangements to hold ten brief loan counseling sessions later this month. Each session will consist of a 15 minute video presentation and time for questions, if necessary. For your benefit, we strongly recommend that you attend. 
Monday, January 29th La Fortune, Notre Dame Room  2:00-2:30 PM 3:30-4:00 PM  2:45-3:15 PM 4:15-4:45 PM  
Wednesday, January 31st La Fortune, Notre Dame Room  7:00-7:30 PM 8:30-9:00 PM  7:45-8:15 PM  
Thursday, February 1st La Fortune, Notre Dame Room  2:00-2:30 PM 3:30-4:00 PM  2:45-3:15 PM  

If you find it impossible to attend one of the above sessions, the video tape will be on reserve at the Audio Learning Center located on the second floor in the Hesburgh Library. You may also speak with a counselor in the Financial Aid Office. 

Ul~~~~~ ;;;;~;;;;~;~~~~~;,;~;,;;~;~ 


~CLUB 
Student Manager Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available. 

Pick them up in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 

Application deadline is February 23, 1990. 

Questions? Call: 239-7521. 


~---------------------~-----~ 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, January 31, 1990 



Court 
continued from page 1 

Not only tho Iiles of the pro­fessor charging discrimination can be released, but also those of othnr tenure candidates. Thn evaIuations of tlw professor being d1~nied tnnure isn't liknly to rnvnal thn source of discrim­ination, said Dutilo. 
It is the otlwr candidatns' 
files which eould show that loss 
qualified and capabln peopl1~ 
wnrn tn~atnd more favorably 
for masons which could be dis­
cri rn inatory. 

What the decision does not 
allow is "a fishing expPdition," 
said Komnwrs. "It does not 
pnrmit disclosure of confiden­
tial records wlwrwv1~r some 
disgruntled person charges 
that lw has not bnPn promoted 
for reasons of sex or race." 
"Tiw charge has to he plausi­
ble and tlw eviderH~I~ in the 
records must bP n~levant to th1~ 
charge-two burdens not all 
that easy to sustain, he said." 
Although sorn1~ subjectivity that is unavoidable in any form of evaluation, professors who make rwgativn stalPnwnts have an obligation to back thnm up. said Hobinson. "I havp a moral obligation to giVP evidence if I impute a fault to a pPrson," he said. 
The tenure process at Notrn Damn begins with a review aft1~r a nnw professor's third year. Anotlwr n~viPw takes phu~n thnw years latPr. At this time a d1~cision must be made, according to Provost Timothy O'Meara. beeaus1• a professor automatically has tmwrn if kept on at the Univ1~rsity for seven years. 
In dedding tnnun~. Notre Damn focuses on thrne aspeets of the professor's aecornplish­nwnts. The University looks at tlw t.mching ability and ef'f'nc­tiveness of tlw candidat1~ on all levnls. 
S1H~ondly, whPn deciding scholarship and n~snarch, tlwy ask questions likP, "how crn­ativl~ is tlw professor in his field, in t1mns of publications and msearch'?" O'Meara said. 
Th1~ third area of focus is service at the university, usually determined by coopPration on 
committees and attempts to bn­
come established in the candi­
date's respnctive dnpartment. 
Evaluations for tnnurn at 
Notrn Damn begin with elected 
dnpartmental committnes gath­
ering outside, expert opinions 
of thn candidate's work. ac­
cording to O'Meara. Then, thn 
committee itself makes an eval­
uation. A subsequent evaluation 
of the above-mnntioned three 
aspects is made, and the 
eomrnittnn then takes a vote. 
The chairman of the commit­
tee and the dean of the school 
also make evaluations. The 
Provost's Advisory Committne 
then examines the material. and 
a vote is taken. After thn 
Provost makes his personal 
recommendation, all the evalu­
ations are sent to Father Ed­
ward Malloy, prnsident of the 
Univnrsity, to mak1~ a final dl~ci­
sion. 

Notification methods in 
t1~nurn dncisions are what 
Kommers snns as a key to prn­
venting sonw diserimination 
eases. "I think a lot of thnsn 
discrimination cases would not 
go to thn EEOC if university de­
partments wnrn a little mon~ 
candid with rnjecll~d appli­
cants," he said. 

"A rejected eand idatn dn­snrves thn eourtnsy of an expla­nation-an nxplanation that would allay any suspicion that race or ~nx is involved." 
In the Pnnnsylvania easn. thi~ woman was not given reason for lwr denial of ll~nurc, whieh prompted her to suspect her gnnder or national origin was the cause, lw said. 
Alt1~ring the tenure process is, according to Francis Castalino, dnan of the Collngn of Science. caus1~ for "a poorer university." lie said that the Suprnml' Court's decision is an infringn­ment on acadnmic freedom whieh could, "start to destroy input into tlw (tenurnl pro­cess." 
O'Mnara said that he thinks the decision will not change proceedings at Notre Damn, but will probably either makn evaluators reluctant to rnview candidates at all, or reluctant to produce anything but bland comments, for fear of the legal implications of their opinions. 

I.F. Interns-a two-year extra curricular career development program in the growing field of compensation and benefits--is now considering applicants for 1990-91 summer internship opportunities. Career opportunities in this area are vast; they include positions in Accountancy, Communications, Computer Science, Human Resources, Insurance, Inveshnents, Law, Marketing, Consulting, etc. 
Successful candidates work in full-time paid positions with firms during the two summers before graduation and attend required educational seminars in Chicago during the academic year. Positions available primarily in Chicago, Milwaukee, Dayton, and Cincinnati, Ohio. 
I.F. Interns is for the energetic sophomore seeking to channel academic excellence toward specific career goals. Minimum 
3.0 GPA required. Deadline for application is February 9. 
Additional information and application are available from: 
Career and Placement Services Memorial Library 
The International Founct.tion of Employee Benefit Plana ia a nonprofit educational organl.ution. 
Democrats propose $511 mil for E. Europe 
WASIIINGTON (AP)-Senate Democrats on Tuesday pro­posed a half-billion dollar aid package, $200 million more than President Bush wants, to foster emerging democracies in Eastern Europe. 
The biB, introduced by Sen. Claiborne Pell, D-IU. and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman, would augment $738 million in aid al­ready approved for Poland and Hungary with $511 million tar­geted at Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Romania, Bulgaria and Yugoslavia. 
Pell said he would not be sur­prised if his proposal is in­creased during the legislativn process "in view of the pro­found interest of the United States in supporting positive developments in Eastern Eu­rope." 
Bush, as part of the fiscal 1991 budget he proposed Mon­day, asked for $300 million as a "spncial assistance initiative" for countries behind the crum­bling Iron Curtain, including Poland and Hungary. 
THURSDAY 





NIGHT;~ 
9:30 p.m. Thursday .. comedian STEVE SEAGREN 
get free BUTTONS 

I 5 s~ 
White House Budget Director Richard Darman told the Ilouse Budget Committee Tuesday that the distribution of the $300 million. which would need con­gressional approval, had not yet been determined. 
Pell's proposal includes liber­alizing trade relations and pro­viding non-economic assis­tance, such as management training, to the Soviet Union. 
It also would tell the adminis­tration to confer most-favored­nation tradn status on all of the Eastern European countrins at the earliest possible date, sup­port their admission to the In­ternational Monntary Fund and make them eligible for Export­Import Bank loans guarantees. 
In addition, the bill provide $43 million to the development of non-corn­
munist parties and free elec­
tions in the Sovint bloc tries plus an immediate 
million in food aid for Homa­
nia. 
~N AT 
Outlay Proposals 
Spending estimates by category; in billions of dollars. • Fiscal1991 D Fiscal1990 
Defense 
Includes non~Pentagon spending 

Social Security 
Pension and disability only 
rft 
Health 
Includes Medicare and Medicaid 
NIGHTCLUB 


--------~------~----·-------­
Wednesday, January 31, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Sexton appointed to exec. board of non-profit corporation 
Special to The Observer 
William Sexton. vice president for University relations at Notrn Dame, has been ap­pointnd to the executive board of Trust Through llealth. Inc., a non-profit corporation pro­moting Soviet-American joint efforts to improve health care in Third World nations. 
The organization currnntly is cooperating with the Sovints on a fiw-ynar program in Tanza­nia, where experts from the two superpowers are instruct­ing native physicians in the in­tricacies of public health man­agement. Notre Dame, through its Institute for International Peace Studies, and Harvard University, through its Institute for International Development, have investigated the possibili­ties of collaborating in future Trust Through Health projects. 
Trust Through IIPalth's exec-


GOURMET BURGERS & ICE CREAM 

DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR 
3602 Grape Road • Mishawaka, IN 255-5525 

~------------T------------~ 


: Dinner for 2 : Sundae : $899 Sa$j}~er : 99¢ 
I For I I I Pick any LWO Gourmet Sandwiches, I Buy any size sundae and I 1 two Garden Salads, plus your choice of I receive a second one of the I 
French Fnes or On ron Rmgs and 2 1 · f 99• I
I 
Mini-Sundaes. same Size or I Expires 2/7/90 I Expires 2/7/90 I 


~------------~------------~ 

You've thought about it. 
You've bied to imagine what it would be like. 
You know it would be exciting. And a challenge. And quite possibly the most rewarding experience of your life ... 
Three Americans overseas in Asia, Africa and South America speak frankly on what Peace Corps life is like for them. 
It isn't easy and it isn't for everyone-they'll tell you that up front. 
But if you've ever considered going overseas in the Peace Corps, then now is your chance to see and hear for yourself what could be "the toughest job you'll ever love." 
l'k:Jte: Former Peace Corps volunteers will be on hand to answer questions following the 25 minute film. And it's free! 
See our free film Thurs., Feb. 8th at 7 p.m. in the Center For Social Concerns. 


utive board is headed by Roger director-general of the World Egeberg, assistant secretary of Health Organization, and Fa­health in the Nixon administra­ther Theodore Hesburgh, pres­tion, and Julius Richmond, sur­ident emeritus of Notre Dame. geon general under President Jimmy Carter and more· re­Sexton, who has held his cur­cently director of the Harvard rent position since 1983, directs division of health policy re­Notre Dame's activities in search and education. The or­development, public relations, ganization's advisory board in­community relations and insti­cludes Halfdan Mahler, former tutional advancement, as well as its alumni association. pub­lications, special events and Notre Dame Magazine. A mem­ber of the Notre Dame faculty since 1966, Sexton is an asso­ciate professor of management in the College of Business Ad­ministration and continues to 
teach. He holds bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees from Ohio State University. 
Interviews, Wed. & Thurs., Feb. 21st & 22nd in Career and Placement Services. St. Mary's interviews, Fri. Feb. 23rd
U.S. Peace Corps 
Counseling & Career Developing Center.

The Plovie 
"The Toughest Job You'll Ever Love" 

DETm 
Rockin' Atwater 
Republican National Committee Chairman Lee Atwater gets down to some sounds as he performs with legendary blues guitarist B. B. King during a Republican party gala at the Kennedy Center in Washington Monday. The black-tie affair, which was attended by President and Mrs. Bush and other GOP leaders, celebrated the first anniversary of the Bush administration. 

Speech team earns several honors in weekend tourney
Special to The Observer Novice Prose. •John McKee-2nd place, The Notre Dame Speech Novice Prose. 
Team traveled to Morehead •Mary Roetzel (SMC)-2nd State, in Kentucky for their an­Place, Novice Extemp. 
nual speech tournament •Joe Wilson-1st place, Varsity 
January 26-27. Placing at the Poetry. tournament were: Their next tournament will be 
•Amy Wandstrate-6th place, in Ft. Wayne, Indiana, at IUPU Novice Poetry and 4th place, this Friday and Saturday. 
STUDYFOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR 7WO TERMS IN 





OXFORD 
Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies CouncU to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. College in Oxford. 3.2 minimum Index In major required. 
An alternative program which is sponsored by a U.S. University is available for studentswith minimum indexes of 
2.7. Studentswill have social and athletic rights In an Oxford college and the fees are substantially less. 
INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON 
WISC offers summer Internships with Congress, with the White House, with the media and with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught by senior­level government officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced journalists. Similar opportunities in public policy Internships are offered (with academic credit) in London (Fall, Spring and Summer). 

WRSC 
EO/AA 

The Washington International Studies Council 
214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E. Suite 450 Washington, D.C. 20002 

(202) 547-3275 


page 6 The Observer Wednesday, January 31, 1990 

Diary 
continued from page 1 "to discuss the sales of arms to Iran," Green said, adding that one entry "addresses briefly the issue of the proceeds from these sales." Greene said that none of the diary entries shed "any light on the question of what President 
Aid 
continued from page 1 
scholarships, particularly at 
Notre Dame. 
It was brought to the atten­
tion of the officers and trustees 
of the University and was dis­
cussed last spring. 
The question of what the 
University is doing to meet the 
high tuition was raised and a 
committee was formed to corn­
pile a report in response to the 
question. 
The rnport was reviewed in 
the fall of 1989 and was "well 
received," according to Husso, 
who was part of the committee. 
"I think we, in the financial 
aid office, are very encouraged 
that the scholarship issue is 
boing addn~ssed like never bo­
fore. I am hopdul that we will 
se1~ significant im~reases within 
tho next fow ymtrs," he said. 
Despite what many may 
think. Notre Damn doPs recog­
nize merit, if there is financial 
1 Notre Dame and
..------------­
1 Saint Mary's: I I Its SYR timeJ again... 1 Give your date a I lasting memento I from 
I ~ 
Attempting to srudy for the MCAT alone would be nearly impossible. Attempting to srudy without Stanley H. Kaplan would simply be a bad career move. 
Maybe it's our 50 years of experience. Our small classes. Or the 

·S11&a.. 
advanced teaching methods we use in all our classes all across the . h h" country.
Wit t as coupon I 

Whatever it is, if medical school i!. your furure, Stanley Kaplanreceive 20% off I can help you start practicing right now. 
15 STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
& Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Cltances 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
HalfOfThisYear's MedicalSchool ClassGotThere WithOurHelp. 
SUMMER•JOBS 
COUNSELORS 
Boys Camp, W. Mass. • Girls Camp, Maine 

Top Salary, Rm./Bd./Laundry, Travel Allowance Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activites: Archery, Arts & Crafts. Baseball, Basketball. Bicycling. Cheerleading. Dance, Drama. Drums, Fencing, Golf, Guitar, Gymnastics. Hockey, Horseback, Karate, Lacrosse, Nature. Nurses, Photography, Piano, Radio. Rocketry. Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Scuba. Soccer, Tennis. Track, WSI, Waterski, Weights. Wood. Men call or write: Women call or write: Camp Winadu Camp Vega 5 Glen Lake P.O. Box 1771 Mamaroneck. NY Duxbury, MA 10543 (914) 381-5983 02332 (617) 934-6536 



Baltic mediators arrange meeting between Armenians and Azers 
JUGA, U.S.S.H. (AP)-Baltic separatists say they have ar­ranged an unusual attempt to resolve bloody strife in the Cau­casus because that conflict could jeopardize their own peaceful drive for democracy. 
After a week of intense work, Baltic People's Front leaders said Armenians and Azerbaija­nis have agreed to meet in Higa, capital of Latvia. 
Representatives of the Arme­nian All-National Movement and the People's Front of Azer­baijan are tentatively scheduled to meet Thursday, but travel problems could delay the dis­cussions. 
The mediation effort is unusual because it bypasses the Kremlin and President Mikhail Gorbachev, who has tried un­successfully to end the bitter confrontation between Armenia and Azerbaijan. 
The Soviet government sent troops to Azerbaijan, and there have been nearly 200 deaths in the latest round of ethnic vio­lence in the region. 
"The situation in the Cauca­sus threatens the development of democracy in the Soviet Union as a whole, and talks could be a constructive begin­ning," said Ints Upmacis, a lawyer and one of three media­tors from the Latvian People's Front. 
Sending Soviet soldiers to the Azerbaijani capital of Baku on Jan. 20 "was kind of a half­step forward to introducing the army into all of the Soviet Union," said Romas Razukas, a· Latvian People's Front member responsible for organizing the talks. "This precedent seemed very dangerous to us." 
People's Fronts from Latvia's Baltic neighbors, Lithuania to the south and Estonia to the north, also are sending media­tors. 
The negotiations mark the first time that non-official or­ganizations will take such a leading role in trying to settle a national Soviet issue. If suc­cessful. the effort could en­hance the prestige of the Baltic movements, already in the fore­front of the Soviet reform ef­fort. 
In Moscow, Vyacheslav Mikhailov, the No. 2 official of the Communist Party Central Committee's Ethnic Relations Department, told reporters Tuesday he was unaware of the Higa talks but that the Kremlin would support anything that helps resolve the conflict and ends bloodshed. 
The Latvians also see poten­tial political gain in elections scheduled March 18. 
"We obviously have humani­tarian intentions, but this ini­tiative could have great profit for us politically as well," said Razukas. "We have elections to the Latvia Supreme Soviet corn­ing up, and this initiative shows that the Latvian People's Front is peaceful." 
The idea for a Baltic initiative was a direct result of the Soviet military intervention in Azerbaijan. According to official sources, 197 people have been killed since the violence began, including 125 since the military moved into Baku. 
SECURITY BEAT 
TUES. JAN.17 

1 p.m. Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a hit and run in the D-6 lot. The victim's car sustained damage to the passenger door. 
WED. JAN.18 
5:15p.m. A resident of University Vil­

lage reported the theft of his bicycle 
from outside the Hesburgh Library be­
tween 2 and 2:30 p.m. His loss is esti­
mated to be $40. 
THURS. JAN.19 

1:38 a.m. A Zahm Hall resident re­ported the theft of cash from his room sometime between 1/15 and 1/18. 
3:20 p.m. A Knott Hall resident re­ported that her car had been vandalized while parked in the D-2 lot sometime be­tween 1/16 and 1/19. 
6:45 p.m. Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a hit and run in the D-1 lot. The victim's vehicle sustained substantial damage to the driver's side. 
FRIDAY JAN. 20 

11 :59 p.m. Two residents of Flanner Hall reported the theft of cash from their unlocked rooms. 
SAT. JAN.21 

12:50 a.m. Notre Dame Police ar­rested an Illinois man for Driving While Intoxicated after the defendant was ob­served ~peeding on Juniper Road. 
MONDAY, JAN. 22 

3:30 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident re­ported the theft of his watch and class ring from his unlocked room at approxi­mately 3:30p.m. on 1/18. 
5:30 p.m. A resident of Lewis Hall re­ported that her car had been struck while parked behind Lewis. The accident occurred sometime between 3:30p.m. on 1/21 and 5:30p.m. on 1/22. 
TUESDAY, JAN.23 
8:59 p.m. A Grace Hall resident re­ported the theft of his coat and wallet from the employee coat rack in the North Dining Hall. The theft occurred sometime between 7 and 8:45 p.m. His loss is estimated at $110. 
WED., JAN. 24 
12:50 a.m. A resident of Holy Cross Hall reported the theft of clothing and a watch from a locker in the Rockne Memorial. The theft occurred between 8 and 10 p.m., and the victim's loss is esti­mated to be $70. 
FRIDAY, JAN. 26 
12:10 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident re­ported the theft of his Notre Dame class ring from his unlocked room. His loss is estimated to be $450. 
SATURDAY, JAN. 27 
2:32 a.m. A Lewis Hall resident re­ported being struck in the face while at­tending an off-campus party. 
3:52 a.m. A Grace Hall resident re­ported that his car had been vandalized while parked in the D-2 lot sometime be­tween 1/24 and 1/27. Damages are es­timated to be $135. 
5 a.m. Two students from Saint Mary's were stopped and questioned by Notre Dame Security after they were found to be in possession of a stolen street sign. 
5 p.m. A South Bend resident reported the theft of a radar detector from his car. The car had been parked in Orange Field during the basketball game. 

Dear NursingBoards booster, 
(Excerpts from actual letters* 
Stanley H. Kaplan has received from 
satisfied NCLEX-prep takers.) 

"Not passing the NCLEX the first time was the worst thing to happen to me ...taking Kaplan was the best thing fve everdone ..." 
-Student from Berkeley; California 
Ifeel that your nursing program is solely responsible for my 550 point increase ..." -Student from Birmingham, Alabama 
"I hadn't studied for my first NCLEX and did not pass. Kaplan really motivated me to study hard to achieve a passing score the second time around ..." 

-Studentfrom New York City. New York 
No one but Kaplan gives you small classes led by ex­perienced nurses, and a tape review series. So ifyou want the best and most experienced in test prep, do what 
these RNs did. Call Kaplan! JKAPLAN 
'If YOU'D LIKE TO READ MORE lETTERS LIKE THESE. 
COME VISJT US. 

STAHLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAl CENTER LTD. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 


Reagan may have known about the diversion" of proceeds to the Contras from the adminis­tration's secret sale of arms to Iran. 
Reagan has denied knowing about the diversion and Poindexter testified before Congress that he didn't tell the president. 
Poindexter is charged with conspiracy, two counts of ob­structing Congress and two counts of making false state­ments in connection with aide Oliver North's assistance to the Contras and a November 1985 shipment of Hawk missile~ to Iran. 
Poindexter contends that Heagan knew of and approved activities undertaken in the Iran and Contra initiatives . 
need. Such students are desig­nated as Notre Dame Scholars. 
"f'inancial need is an essential factor in determining scholarships,» said Russo. "Once need is determined, the office, in an effort to spread its limited resources, combines scholarship and grant assis­tance with other forms of aid such as loans and jobs to meet the full needs of' the student," explained Russo. 
This process is called packag­ing. 
One type of aid that is avail­able to Notre Dame students is various scholarship programs offered by regional alumni clubs. 
Them are approximately 200 active clubs around the globe, and almost half of them are in­volvod in scholarship programs, noted Russo. 
These clubs "help hundreds of students with thousands of dollars," Russo said. "It speaks very highly of the Notre Dame family." 
According to him, students generally are automatically considered as incoming fresh­man for their club's local scholarship program. The amount ranges from $100 to several thousand dollars. 
"The alumni offer this service free and put a lot of effort into it," said Russo. 
Some clubs are particularly active in scholarship programs, such as the St. Joseph's Valley Club which awards 30-35 'stu­dents per year. Other very ac­tive clubs include Chicago. New York City. Philadelphia and De­troit. 
----~------~ ---------~.-----------~--------­


page 7 
Baker postpones talks after Gorbachev rumor 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Secre­"We're following the story, as I tary of State James Baker III know you are, and we'll have a is rescheduling talks in Moscow comment if we ever determine with Soviet Foreign Minister it's something more than just a Eduard Shevardnadze to avoid rumor." interfering with a meeting of Baker said American diplo­the Communist Party Central mats in Moscow "know just Committee, Baker's about the same thing that all spokeswoman said Tuesday. the rest of us know right now 
The postponement coincided -that there's a rumor out 
with a report by the Cable News there to this effect, and that's Network that Soviet President all we know." Mikhail Gorbachev had spent He said his talks in Moscow the past eight days at his coun­were "still very much on." try home, considering his res­Asked about the CNN report, ignation as head of the Soviet White House spokesman Marlin Communist Party. Fitzwater said: "I have no idea. 
Bush administration officials We've never heard of it before. and intelligence sources told I have no information." The Associated Press that there has been speculation for weeks He said of the Baker trip to that Gorbachev would yield his Moscow: "It was just delayed party post -while retaining one day." the presidency -but that they had no information he would Baker and Shevardnadze will take the step. meet Feb. 8-9 in the Soviet 
"All I can tell you ... is that capital, a day delay at the sug­it's a rumor, and therefore it's gestion of the U.S. government, not something that I think that said Margaret Tutwiler, the we should respond to or react State Department to," Baker told reporters. spokeswoman. 
East German Communists call for German reunification 
EAST BERLIN (AP) -East agency ADN said he was taken for a single German state, while East German party ideologist reunification drive is moving German Communists angling to to a nursing home. warning that Germans "should Peter Brie told a news confer­too quickly. boost their popularity before Honecker's successors in the not decide this important ques­ence that the Communists sup­Asked if the Communists op­parliamentary elections on once-mighty Communist Party tion on the streets." port "the togetherness of the pose reunification, Gysi was Tuesday endorsed eventual re­launched their uphill campaign He referred to the growing German nation," and urged a quoted by the newspaper as re­unification with West Germany. · Tuesday for the March 18 elec­number of demonstrations in thoughtful and measured ap­plying: "No, not at all. This 
An East Berlin court rejected tions by acknowledging a na­East Germany in support of re­proach to reunification. process cannot be stopped any the Communist-dominated gov­tional fever for reunification, unification. more. But it is irresponsible to ernment's request to keep its and party leader Gregor Gysi Gorbachev's statement was "It must not occur as fast as do things in such a way now as ousted leader, Erich Honecker, conceded that the movement is his most tolerant yet on the possible, but as slowly as is re­if it were possible tomorrow." behind bars until his treason unstoppable. subject of a single Germany, quired," Brie said. trial in March. Honecker was In Moscow, Soviet President which has been opposed by In an interview with the West The reunification issue freed because of his ailing Mikhail Gorbachev also ac­Communists for more than 40 German Bild newspaper, party promises to dominate the elec­health, and the official news knowledged mounting pressure years. leader Gysi complained that the tion campaign. 



FACUL7Y COURSE EVALUA710NS 

YOUR CHANCE 70 BE BEARD!! 
ALL DATA WILL BE TABULATED AND RESULTS WILL BE PUBLISHED IN A BOOKLET FOR YOUR BENEFIT 
• 
CHECK YOUR MAILBOX 

• 
7AKE A MINUTE TO FILL OUT THE FCE 

• 
YOU CAN OBTAIN THE NECESSARY COURSE INFORMATION/NUMBERS FROM YOUR PAST SEMES7ER'S REPOR7 CARD 

• 
PLACE 7BE RESULTS IN THE RECEPTACLES LOCATED IN THE LOBBY OF YOUR DORM BY FEB.I UDENT 




Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, January 31, 1990 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager . Molly K1llen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Al1son Cocks Accent Editor John Bias• Systems Mgr Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Batley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnst1ne G1ll Controller Anne L1ndner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa tnt Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1n1stratton of either mstttut1on The news IS reported as accurately and ob­jectively as poss1ble Unstgned edttonals represent the op1nton of the majonty of the follow1ng. Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef. Manag1ng Ed1tor. Executtve News Ed1tor. V1ewpo1nt Editor, Sports Ed1tor, Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor Satnt Mary's Ed1tor Commentanes, letters, and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of thetr authors Column space IS available to all members of the commun1ty and the free express•on of varying op1nions on campus, through letters. is encouraged 


By Tara O'Brien 
It seems to me that society in general is guilty of neglecting the poor. For this reason. I chose to put "her" on trial. lntnrestingly enough, I found mysnlf playing the role of de­fnnsn attorney at the start of the Urban Plunge and, as you can snn, bncame the prosecuting attornny at the condusion. 
Ladies and Gentlflmnn of the jury: 
Today you an~ being facnd with a snnmingly diflicult dnei­sion. Do not let fnar doud your judgnwnt nor allow thn prns­sun~s of this casn to affnct what you know to bn right. Your decision shall dewrminn llw future of sorinty as wn know it and, morn spneifieally, of llw dispossnssnd. 
Poverty is like a eancnr. Unlnss treated. it will spread insidiously to all parts of sod­Ply, snuffing out all lift>, drain­ing human nxistenen. It festnrs and grows until it extinguishns the dwindling tires or human compassion. You hold in your hands the eurn. With one simpln word you will be able to rnsus­eitate society. You will have thn pownr to breathe life and goodness back into this world. 
Tlw defense claims that the problem is not as snrious as I have made it out to be. However. for forty-eight hours I have experienced something of what the poor and the home­less have lived day after day. I have seen the burnt husks that thny must call home, and I have heard the sounds of bullets ric­ocheting ofT the walls of what thny must call school. I have snwllnd the acrid scent of dn­spair. tasted the bitternnss of abjm~t povnrty. and toudwd thn crippled hands rmu~hing out for help. I too am on trial for I have !.een all this and still donn nothing. I too ask myself. "But rnalistically. what can I do?" I 
DOONESBURY 
because Wfl are somehow in­instruments of death than on trinsically better. In fact, how the basic necessities of life, it many of us would be able to must stand trial like the com­survive in their circumstancfls? mon murderer that it has How can we presume to judge proven to b1~. them or criticize them wlwn we We all feel the anger, frustra­have never experienced an tion. and guilt r.ombined with ounce of the pain or terror that the fear of failure. but we can­they face in a single hour'? The not let thes1~ emotions render poor are not the rejects of soci­us impotent. We can usn our 
now know t answer; can on your spare weekend is ety. They are not garbage to be feelings to spur us into action earn enough to give of myself. enough, but it is not. You must collected and then placed or we can run from tlwm as we 
The defense claims that the give not what you can spare, somflwhere out of view. They do from the poVPrty-stricken. responsibility lies with the poor but rather you must give all of are people. good people, vic­Let us stand together and fight. themselves. They feel that equal yourself. Bits and pieces are tims, not waste material. Some Lnt some good come of tlw pain opportunities are prflsented to not enough. Scattered govern­are men who risked tlwir lives and suffpring endured by tlwse both the rich and the poor, but ment programs will not solve a for the honor of this country people. Do not allow tlwir the poverty-stricken are either concentrated problem, espe­but now live on the streets. nightman~ to continue. You too ignorant or too lazy to take cially since the government is Society has chosen to dose its must, after nwiPwing tlw case advantag<~ or them. However, often more concernfld with eyes to the needs of its pPopln. presented to you, follow what you have heard the testimony or maintaining the facade its ac­For this it must bn condemned. you know to be tnw. You must several of this country's home­tions have created rather than It is a crime that the govern­stand up for those who cannot less. Did they seem ignorant or aiding the people who so des­ment pays farmers not to grow stand up for tiH~msnlvns. You lazy to you? Did they lit the de­pnrately need help. It would be crops, yet there are still people must find soriPty guilty of' ig­scriptions given to you by the easy for us to hide from the in this country who die b1~cause noring thP plight of tlw poor. dnfmlsl~'? I ask you. in your problem since it does not affect they do not have enough to nat. "Have you n~al'lwd a VPr­heart of hearts. do you blame us directly. But how can we There are places in this country dict'!" them for their problems? Can morally justify such a betrayal in which the life nxpPctancy is "Yes your honor, we havP. WP you hold them fully aeeount­of humanity? drastically less than sonw third find soriPty guilty and sPnterH'<' able? I am telling you that you Would you wish to raise your world countries. Tlw infant lwr to a lif'Ptinw of community cannot! We have a moral re­child in the neighborhood mortality rate is fourtPnnth in service and compassion." sponsibility to fulfill. We cannot where violence and death an~ the world, yet we arn supposPd let our fear. our ignorance, or an every day occurrence? No? to be a civilized and advanced Tara 0 'IJrien. l.ewis flail. is our grned sway us from our Then why is it acceptable that nation. When a society values one qf more than :mo NIJ/.'·jMC' purpose. We may be able to someone else should be forced status symbols over human life students u•ho made the Urban 
avoid our responsibilities by ig­to'! How would you feel if, ev­or places more importance on Plunge in early January. ncJring the problem, but for eryday, you were forced to how long can we continue to watch a brother· or sister, 

LETTERS

run'? mothflr or father die for lack of' The defnnse has stated that bread or the proper medical at­
Laundry issue still burning
bncausc of human nature the tention? If you could not deal 
poor will always exist. I con­with it. then why should some­Dear Editor: cede that there will be some one else have to? What if you I am very pleased to see the as wet aftPr one cyde of' drying who have more than others, but cried out until your throat was number of washers and dryers as they were bdorn turning on it does not follow that the ones dry and cracking and still no added on campus to accommo­the machine. Sonwhow over who have less must have noth­one listened? These arc not date the male students. break our maehines all r1~1~dved ing. This cannot be used as an fabricated stories, nor rare oc­However, more needs to bn new coin slots but the dry<~rs excuse to avoid our moral duty, currences. This happnns to real done. still do not opnratn ef'lidently. nor as an easy way to dodge people every minute of every The recent price increasn to Hebuild St. Miduwl's, then I'll the issue. In fact, it is further day. You may not see them, but use the machines (40 pereent snnd my laundry there so it evidence that something must that does not mean that they do for dryers) would be mueh does not havn to hang from a be done to offset the unjust dis­not exist, nor does it mean that more bearable if the older curtain rod to dry. 
tribution of wealth. you are justified in shirking machines actually worked. 
The defense has also tried to your responsibilities. Of the eight dryers in my t1~ll you that it is justifiable to They did not ask to be born dorm only two actually dry Ginny Glynn ignore the pleas or our poor, nor did we ask to be born dothes. The others just steam /.ewis /fall brnthren. They say helping out rich. We are not where we are tlwm, leaving all my dothes just Jan. 25, 1990 
QUOTE OF THE DAY

GARRY TRUDEAU 
H&'5 AFRAIJ) f}IVrtN .• 8060TA-UNOFFIC/AttY, OF 
tf){AT IF H& Fl£/U /JOWN TO 
YOUU 88 O~Y, t£T's 
CDUR.S£3-ANO e.><PLAINW 
ORAGfXf? FRarl TRY 7H/3 OUR POSITION'? ... RIGHT... 
'A happy marriage is a long
'tOUR UlrlO ANI? PR&'3/l?E3NT 
RIGHT... UH-HUH ... I 513& ... 
BeATEN WITH OF PUeaD 
conversation which always
P/P&5. RJCO-'
........,..=-......_/ 
seems too short.' 



Andre Maurois (1885-1967) 
--~-~ -----~---------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~------, 

Accent 
Wednesday, January 31, 1990 page 9 

ND Law Professor Also A Barrister 
Professor Smithburn becomes a part of the British legal tradition 
JOHN FISCHER accent writer 
T 
lwrP is an Anwriean barrist.Pr 
in London. 
At l!•ast during tiw summPr 
months. that is. 
.1. Erie Smithburn, a profps­sor in tiw NotrP DamP Law School and dirPrtor of tlw sumnwr law program in London. has lwromP a part of the British IPgal tradition. In doing so. lw is on!' of fpw i\nwriran barristPrs in England, and tiw only barristPr natiw to Indiana. (liP was fornwrly tiw judgP of tlw County Court in Plymouth.) 
Tlw roll' of tlw barristPr is stPPJWd in rPnturiPs of tradition that dati's bark to tlw 1400's. lllitPratP Anglo-Saxon litigants would try tlwir rasPs in front of a trawlling judgP who usually spokp Fn•11rh or Latin. In ordPr that both thP litigants and tlw jud).{P rould undPrstand o1w anotlwr. aristorrats trawling with tlw judgPs would "intPrprPt" what Parh said to thP otlwr. ThPSP intPrprPtPrs wPrP tiw lirst barristPrs. 
i\rrording to Smithburn. tlw first stPp in bProming a barristPr in modPrn l:ngland is to takP a bar Pxamination administPrPd by tlw Bar of England and Wall's. liP was PXPmptPd from this n•quirnrnPnt. howPvPr. bPcausP hP dt~monstratPd sufficiPnt Pduration and expPriPili'P in tlw liPid of common law. Common law is still practirPd in somP form in most of tlw countries fornwrly within tiw British l:mpin•. It is law bast~d upon court prPrPdnnts. not law madP by a IPgislatiw body. A law dPgrPP is also a rnquir«'mnnt of a barristPr. Smithburn notnd that a law dPgrt'l' in England is an undPrgradualP dPgrPP wlwrPas his i\nwriean-Parrwd dPgrPP took snvnral y«'ars of graduatP srhool to arquirP. 
i\ftPr tiwsP prPiiminary rPquirPmPnts arP fulliiiPd. a prospPetiw barristPr must bP dPPmPd propnr in ordPr to bP caiiPd to tlw bar. This rlassifkation is obtai1wd through n•eommPndations from prPsPnt mPmbPrs of tlw l·:nglish bar. 
Tlw rwxt stPp for tlw prospPetivn barristnr is to join Olll' of the four Inns of Court: th1~ Middln TPmpiP. ln1wr TPm­pln. Gray's. and Lincoln's. Smithburn was induetPd into thn Middln Tt~mpiP. Joining an Inn of Court is similar to a graduation r1m~mony. The prospects rcenive congratulation from tho highest­standing mPmbnrs of thn Inn in an nlab­orate cerl'mony. According to Smithburn. thn procpedings take place in a room similar to the Oak Hoom in South Dining flail. but one that is much more ornate. 
After acceptance into an Inn. Smithburn had to go through one of the morn difficult steps of the process. a step which has no comparison in the AmPriean legal process. Twenty-four prnsdwduled dinners must be eaten at various times over a period of several months at the the prospect's particular Inn of Court. These occasions are rigidly formal affairs-Prince Edward often attPnds, gowns must be worn. and socializing. speeches, and moots, or mock appellate arguments are to be Pxperted. 
ThesP dinners are important because tlwy arn the only remnants of the barristers' traditional social life. which in ages past was completely dominated by tlw Inns of Court. Fornwrly. barristers liwd. ate, worked, and sorializPd soiPly in thnir respective Inns. 
i\ftPr all the dinnnrs have been eaten. tlw prospects become official barristers. At this point, they must begin their year of pupilage under a master and lind a set of chambers to practice in. 
Smithburn is exempt from half the allotted pupilage time. however he says that hn may take advantage of the full year. Smithburn wants plenty of ex­perience at addressing the British jury and handling exhibits in the British rourts before he opens his own indepPndent practice. 
i\s for tlw s1~t of chambers. they consist of a group of barristers' offices rnanagPd by a cfprk. The main diffen•m·e bl'tween a Set of chambers in England and law partnerships in the United Stall'S is that the barristers have no rnal professional association with narh otlwr beyond contributing to the ovPrhnad. Tlw clerk is an occupation best dnscribt~d by Smithburn as "a glorifind ofliep manager." Tlw clerk is tlw o1w who distributes the cases the chambers receive among the separate barristPrs. 
Curwntly. Smithburn is unsure about wlwn lw will complete his pupilage. lie is only in Great Britain during the sum­llll'f months when he runs the summer law program. and this makes it rather difficult for him to complete the year re­quirelmmt. lie is certain, however, that eventually he will be able to practice law in England. 
After spending a great deal of time in and around the British court and its barristers. Smithburn says he is most impressed with the professionalism of all involved with the courts. He states, "I admired the professionalism of the English bar and the dignity and civility of the proceedings." 

Above: J. Eric Smithburn, Notre Dame law professor and director oT the summer law program in London. wears his gown and wig that resemble the attire worn by the original barristers. He has been inducted into the British legal tradition as a barrister, a position held by few Americans. 

Left: This crest symbolizes the Middle Temple. one of the four Inns of court in the English law system. Smithburn is a member of the Middle Temple. 

r 


Sports Wednesday
page 10 January 31, 1990 
NBA STAN DINGS SPORTS LIST SCOREBOARD 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Results from Jan. 24-31 
Atlantic Division 

Women's basketball (11-6) 
w L Pet GB Streak Home Away Coni New York 27 15 .643 Won 1 17-2 10-13 15-7 
Notre Dame 85, Dayton 60 Philadelphia 26 16 .619 1 Won 8 17-3 9-13 22-9 
And the list goes on. • • 
Notre Dame 92, Xavier 59 Conferences with the most players in the NBA*
Boston 25 16 .610 11/2 Won 1 15-7 10-9 16-11 
DePaul 71, Notre Dame 64 
Washington 15 28 .349 121/2 Lost 1 11-10 4-18 9-18 
Notre Dame 79, Evc-.nsville 45
New Jersey 12 30 .286 15 Lost 5 8-12 4-18 10-18 
Miami 9 36 .200 191/2 Lost 6 4-17 5-19 6-22 
Hockey (14-1 0-0) Central Division 
Army 7-5, Notre Dame 4-2 Detroit 30 14 .682 Won4 18-3 12-11 19-8 
1. Big Ten 42 players""----.:~...-Wrestling (4-5)
Chicago 28 15 .651 11/2 Won 2 18-2 10-13 14-11 
Notre Dame brought home its third 
Milwaukee 24 19 .558 5 1/2 Lost 2 15-5 9-14 13-11 
2. Atlantic Coast 37 players 
consecutive National Catholic Atlanta 21 20 .512 7 1/2 Lost 2 13-7 8-13 14-15 Indiana 23 20 .535 61/2 Lost 2 16-5 7-15 15-10 
3.PAC-10 32 players title, as Andy Radenbaugh, 
Cleveland 19 23 .452 10 Won3 11-9 8-14 13-14 
4. Big East 28 players Marcus Gowens, Pat Boyd, Todd 
Orlando 13 30 .302 161/2 Won 1 9-12 4-18 8-20 
Layton, Todd Tomazic and Mark
5. Southeastern 27 players 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Gerardi all won individual
Midwest Division 

6. Big Eight 21 players
w L Pet GB Streak Home Away Coni 
championships. Utah 29 11 .725 Won9 20-3 9-8 18-5 
7. Southwest 17 players Women's swimming (12-4)
San Antonio 28 13 .683 11/2 Won 1 18-1 10-12 18-6 
Notre Dame 151, St. Bonaventure
8. Metro 15 players 
Denver 23 19 .548 7 Lost 3 15-5 8-14 14-15 
102 Houston 20 22 .476 10 Lost 1 16-4 4-18 13-16 Dallas 23 20 .535 71/2 Won6 16-8 7-12 14-17 
'Based on opening day rosters Notre Dame 128, UIC 103 Charlotte 8 32 .200 21 Lost 5 7-14 1-18 5-21 
Notre Dame 106, W. Ontario 99 
Minnesota 8 33 .195 21 1/2 Won 1 6-15 2-18 4-19 
Men's swimming 
Pacific Division 

Notre Dame 140, St. Bonaventure Portland 30 11 .732 1 Won6 20-2 10-9 20-7 97 Phoenix 24 16 .600 6 1/2 Lost2 16-5 8-11 18-9 Notre Dame 135, UIC 79 Seattle 19 21 .475 111/2 Won 1 17-5 2-16 11-12 
L.A. Lakers 31 10 .756 Lost 1 19-2 12-8 19-5 
Notre Dame 118, W. Ontario 84
Golden State 19 22 .463 12 Won 1 16-5 3-17 13-14 
Men's basketball ( 11-6) Sacramento 12 29 .293 19 Lost 1 10-13 2-16 7-22 Notre Dame 88, Wichita State 78 Tuesday's Games New York at Boston, 8 p.m. 
L.A. Clippers 18 23 .439 13 Lost 4 13-7 5-16 10-16 
Notre Dame 107, Miami 60 
SOURCE: Sports Features Syndicate 
Late Games Not Included Seattle at Minnesota, 8 p.m. 
Orlando 129, Indiana 111 Houston at Dallas. 8:30p.m. Cleveland 106, Miami 94 Charlotte at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. NHL STANDINGS Detroit 112, Atlanta 95 Los Angeles Clippers at Utah, 9:30 p.m 
WALES CONFERENCE A Avg
Sacramento at Milwaukee, (n) Portland at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Scoring Average G Fg Pts Patrick Division
New Jersey at Phoenix, (n) Thursday's Games Jordan, Chi. 42 312 519 1402 33.4 
w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Div Malone. Utah 40 342 450 1249
Los Angeles Lakers at Los Angeles Clippers, (n) Sacramento at New York, 7:30p.m. 31.2 
New Jersey 24 22 5 53 199 199 14-12-1 10-10-4 12-7-4 Ewing, N.Y. 42 249 446 1141 27.2
Utah at Portland, (n) Orlando at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. 
24 24 5 12-12-4 7-11-4 254 25.9
Wednesday's Games Chicago at Houston, 8:30 p.m. NY Islanders 53 193 190 12-12-1 Mullin, G.S. 41 387 1036 
NY Rangers 22 22 164 11-7-7 7-11-4 Wilkins, All. 373 25.6
Washington at Detroit. 7:30 p.m. New Jersey at Denver, 9:30 p.m. 9 49 173 9-15-2 38 197 972 
Pittsburgh 22 25 4 48 206 227 14-12-1 8-13-3 12-11-2
Philadelphia at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Atlanta at Phoenix, 9:30p.m. Barkley, Phil. 40 293 345 986 24.7 
Washington 22 264 48 185 188 10-11-2 12-15-2 13-10-0 Miller, Ind. 42 234 353 1015 24.2 Philadelphia 20 26 7 47 190 183 10-13-1 10-13-6 9-10-2 Campbell. Minn. 40 214 362 945 23.6
BASKETBALL TOP 25 POLLS 
Adams Division Robinson, S.A. 40 301 315 931 23.3 
A.P. Pol The nation's top 25 women's basketball Boston 31 16 5 67 190 147 18-6-2 13-10-3 12-B-3 Olajuwon, Hou. 42 179 398 976 23.2 The top 25 teams in the Associated Press team's as compiled by Mel Greenberg of Buffalo 29 17 6 64 182 162 16-6-2 13-11-4 12-7-2 Ellis, Sea. 32 119 289 741 23.2 college basketball poll, with first-place The Philadelphia Inquirer on the votes of Montreal 26 21 6 58 175 159 17-8-3 9-13-3 9-7-1 Malone, Wash. 40 138 393 924 23.1 votes in parentheses, records through Jan. 60 women's coaches showing first-place Hartford 23 22 6 52 177 177 10-13-4 13-9-2 7-9-2 Bird, Bost. 37 147 338 849 22.9 28, total points based on 25-24-23-22-21-votes in parentheses. records through Jan. Quebec 9 35 6 24 161 245 5-16-5 4-19-1 3-12-2 Harper. L.A. C. 35 182 301 798 22.8 20-19-18-17-16-15-14-13-12-11-10-9-8-28, total points and last week's ranking. CAMPBELL CONFERENCE McDaniel, Sea. 39 162 359 882 22.6 7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last week's ranking. Points based on 20 for first. 19 for second, Norris Division Richmond. G.S. 39 221 310 861 22.1 
etc. w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Div Cummings, S.A. 40 163 348 871 21.8 
1. 
Missouri(59) 19-1 1,569 1 1.La. Tech(52) 16-0 1,612 1 Chicago 28 19 4 60 207 187 18-B-1 10-11-3 8-9-1 Johnson, L.A. L. 40 282 274 859 21.5 

2. 
Kansas (4) 20-1 1,510 2 2. Stanford (13) 18-0 1,582 2 Toronto 27 23 1 55 227 223 17-8-1 10-15-0 14-7-1 Blackman, Dal. 40 171 338 855 21.4 

3. 
Arkansas 17-2 1,349 6 3. UNLV 18-1 1,451 4 St. Louis 23 21 7 53 179 170 11-9-4 12-12-3 8-11-1 Worthy, L.A. L. 40 129 356 846 21.2 

4. 
Michigan 15-3 1,285 7 4. Georgia 17-2 1,385 7 Minnesota 24 26 3 51 178 194 19-6-1 5-20-2 11-12-1 Malone, All. 38 258 259 777 20.4 

5. 
Duke 16-3 1,223 8 5. Tennessee 15-4 1,363 3 Detroit 17 27 6 40 179 202 11-10-3 6-17-3 8-10-2 Theus, Orl. 42 212 307 844 20.1 

6. 
Georgetown 15-2 1,190 3 6. Texas 13-3 1,351 5 Smythe Division Person, Ind. 107 300 20.1

37 743 

7. 
Syracuse 14-3 1,141 11 7. Washington 15-2 1,189 8 Edmonton 26 16 10 62 207 172 16-7-5 10-9-5 13-6-3 Catledge, Orl. 42 212 307 844 20.1 

8. 
Purdue 15-2 1.034 13 8. Long Beach St. 13-4 1,182 6 Calgary 24 15 13 61 213 173 16-4-5 8-11-8 7-9-3 King, Wash. 43 174 840 19.5

333 

9. 
Oklahoma 14-2 993 9 9. Steph. F. Austin 15-2 1,065 9 Winnipeg 23 22 6 52 180 192 13-9-3 10-13-3 9-6-2 Smith, L.A. C. 38 170 281 733 19.3 

10. 
Louisville 14-3 991 4 10. Purdue 14-3 1,056 10 Los Angeles 21 23 6 48 219 208 12-11-2 9-12-4 8-7-5 Chapman, Char. 35 82 

265 650 18.6 

11. 
Illinois 15-3 969 10 11. N.C. State 13-4 961 11 Vancouver 14 29 9 37 152 192 8-11-7 6-18-2 2-11-5 Thomas, Del. 42 151 303 18.4

773 

12. 
UNLV 14-4 936 5 12. Virginia 17-3 905 12 Wednesday's Games Tuesday's Games Dumas, Del. 43 180 298 791 18.4 

13. 
Connecticut 17-3 819 20 13. Iowa 13-4 885 13 Quebec at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Late Games Not Included Hawkins, Phil. 42 181 274 768 18.3 

14. 
LSU 14-4 779 16 14. Auburn 16-4 795 14 Edmonton at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Edmonton 4, Hartford 4, tie Ainge, Sacr. 40 135 269 729 18.2 

15. 
LaSalle 15-1 634 18 15. S. Carolina 12-4 691 15 St. Louis at New York Rangers, 7:35p.m. Buffalo 5, Quebec 2 Davis, Denv. 42 141 310 763 18.2 

16. 
UCLA 14-3 547 23 16. LSU 14-3 625 16 Washington at Minnesota, 8:35 p.m. St. Louis 2, New York Islanders 1 McHale, Bost. 4J 164 289 743 18.1 

17. 
Georgia Tech 12-4 522 13 17. Hawaii 15-2 540 17 Lever, Denv. 40 127 289 724 

18. 
St. John's 17-4 502 15 18. S. Mississippi 15-2 454 19 


WRESTLING STATISTICS 
19. 
Minnesota 14-4 480 21 19. Northwestern 14-2 336 20 

20. 
Loyola Marym'nt 15-3 391 22 20. Tennessee Tech 13-3 316 21 1989-90 Notre Dame Wrestling Results 


r··-····........ 18.1 
21. Oregon St. 15-3 305 17 21. St. Joseph's 13-3 301 22 
ALL MATCHES DUAL MATCHES 
22. Indiana 13-4 301 12 22. Penn St. 13-3 250 18 
WL D P TFMDWLD P TF
23. Xavier, Ohio 15-2 185 25 23. Maryland 11-7 242 23 
NVA 
24. 
Arizona 12-4 )80 19 24. N. Illinois 15-2 199 24 Radenbaugh (118) 14 2 1 3 1 3 1 0 1 0 0 

25. 
N. Carolina 15-6 175 25. Old Dominion 12-6 63 25 Gowens (126) 17 6 1 4 1 0 6 2 1 0 0 Others receiving votes: Connecticut 41 , J. Boyd (134) 2 8 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 


:LATE NIGHT 
Providence 36, Mississippi 32, Vanderbilt 

P. Boyd (142) 23 3 0 4 2 4 8 1 0 1 1
Others receiving votes: Michigan St. 150, 31, Clemson 29, Montana 24, Kansas St. Alabama 106, New Mexico St. 77, N. 18, Arkansas 17, San Francisco 13, 
Layton (150) 17 12 0 5 0 1 4 5 0 1 0 

OLYMPICS 
Carolina St. 44, Texas 23, Brigham Young California 11, Miami, Fla. 10, Toledo 10, Tomazic (158) 14 12 0 2 1 2 2 6 0 0 0 15, Idaho 11, Providence 7, Clemson 5, Oregon 9, Florida St. 7, Illinois St. 5, Gerardi (167) 26 4 0 5 1 1 8 1 0 0 0 Pittsburgh 5, Colorado St. 4, Virginia 4, Canisius 4, Oklahoma St. 4, Richmond 4, 
Engler (177) 8 9 1 1 0 0 1 3 1 0 0 
Feb. 9
Hawaii 3, Louisiana Tech 3, Villanova 3, E. Utah 4, Miami, Ohio 3, Kansas-2, Wake Tennessee St. 1, Georgia 1, Holy Cross 1, Forest 2, DePaul 1, Duke 1, Fairfield 1, King (190) 13 12 1 4 0 2 2 6 1 0 0 Memphis St. 1, Southern U. 1. Seton Hall!. Weaver (Hwt.) 15 11 0 3 0 2 5 4 0 0 0 
............ 
SPORTS CALENDAR 

Home games In all CAPS Wrestling vs. OHIO STATE, 7:30 DOUBLES CLASSIC Men's and women's fencing vs. Women's tennis hosts ECK 
Thursday p.m. Hockey vs. AIR FORCE, 7:30p.m. WAYNE STATE, 1 p.m ... DOUBLES CLASSIC Women's basketball vs. ST. Men's and women's swimming at Women's basketball at Evansville, Sunday Men's tennis vs. WEST VIRGINIA, LOUIS, 7:30p.m. Duke 7:30p.m. Men's and women's fencing vs. 
3p.m. Friday Hockey vs. AIR FORCE, 7:30p.m. Men's tennis at Illinois Detroit, E. Michigan, Michigan, Men's basketball at Duke 
TuesdayWomen's tennis hosts ECK Saturday Men's and women's swimming at Central State and Tri-State basketball at Loyola,DOUBLES CLASSIC Women's tennis hosts ECK N.C. State Wrestling at Indiana 
STUDENT OCTI U III ES BOORD UPCOM I N6 EUENTS: "NEIGHBORING TALENTS" tryouts on Sunday, February 11 from 1 0:30 unti 1 5:00 in o·Laugh 1 in Au d. 
KEENAN REVUE PARTY IN HAGGAR PARLOR FOLLOWING THIS FRIDAY NIGHT'S PERFORMANCE-admittance with 
Friday night ticket stub 
VVednesday,Janua~31, 1990 The Observer page 11 
Women's track places fourth in MCC Championships 
Last Friday afternoon's  
weather was  conducive  to  a  
track  meet outside, but be­ 
cause the unseasonably warm  
weather around here was not  Mike Kamradt  
really expected, the women's  Club Corner  
track  team  hosted the Mid­ 
western Collegiate Conference  
Championships  in  Loftus  
Sports Center. The Irish made  
a good showing against some  
tough varsity competition by  
placing  fourth,  only  two  
points behind Detroit.  

"We did about as well as we expected," said coach Tim Connelly. "We competed real with schools that have scholarships." 
Notre Dame will have women's track as a varsity sport next year which will mean more resources and better recruiting power. However, this year's squad has only begun to show that it can be a strong team. 
" I knew coming into the meet that Marquette would be really strong in the field events which they were," explained Connelly. "That's where they won the meet." 
The Irish had some impressive finishes in some of those events, particularly in shot put where Karen llarris placed 2nd and Sheila Stewart took fourth. 
"We have two very good shot putters," praised Connelly. "They've been working out with the men's team every day since September." 
Coach Connelly knew that the Irish would hold their own in the distance events and many of the women made impressive showings. In the 4 X 800 relay the team of Lisa Gorski, Jenny Ledrick, Terese Lemanski and Maria Rhomberg blazed to a time of 
9:53.8. Diana Bradley turned in a time of 3:08.63 in the 1 000 m run which was good enough for third place. In the 3,000 Meters, the trio of Jenny Ledrick, Wendy Murray and Amy Blaising finished third, fourth and fifth respectively. 
Another athlete that has practiced with the men's team is Tricia Joeseph who finished fifth in the long jump and fourth in the 55m high hurdles. 
The Notre Dame Ski Team found out what a dif­ference a week can make as they once again traveled to Caberfae, Michigan. The Irish dramatically im­proved last week's finishes as the men's team was third overall. the Irish women third, and the Saint Mary's team second. The teams were challenged by the same tough competition of the previous week as skiers from Grand Valley St., Michigan St., W. Michigan., Central Michigan, Albion and Ferris St. navigated the Giant Slalom course. 
"I was very happy with the weekend," said club president Mike Sheehan. "I think it was important that a lot of the younger skiers had raced the week­end before because they had a lot more confidence." 
Carlie Schubert led the Notre Dame men with a 7th place while teammate Pat O'Rourke finished right behind him, and Tim Peterson took 12th. The team was also without the services of its best skier. 
Bob Reich. The Irish women were topped by Jo.Jo Gehl (7th overall), followed by Sally Stevenson (14th) and Mary Schultz (16th). The only negative aspect of the meet occurred when Trish Steger, the Notre Dame women's number two skier, took a fall and sustained a serious knee injury that may require surgery. Unfortunately, she'll probably sit out the rest of the season. 
Beth Mcintosh paced the second place Belles as she zipped down the course in the fourth fastest time. Molly McDonald's 11th and Kimberly Duran's 18th also helped Saint Mary's to their fantastic fin­ish. 
Why the sudden turnaround in this week's results? 

"We had a couple skiers blow out of the course last week," explained Sheehan. "That really hurts especially if it happens to one of the better racers. That forces you to use lower times and it really hurts the total team time." 
The Gymnastics Club will travel to Miami (Ohio) 

this weekend for the Miami Cup. The team will com­
pete against Purdue, Eastern Michigan, Illinois, In­
diana and Miami. The twenty men and women that 
comprise the team will be ready as they have been 
working out since September. 
"We started the men's team from scratch this year," comments president Jenene Niedzwecki. "They've done surprisingly well in improving and should be strong. Our women's team also is strong. It should be a close meet with Miami. We're always within a point of each other." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 


Classifieds 
LOST: Lost leather jacket with Earn $300-$500 per week reading DESPERATELY need 10 Mizzou­One more time 
WANTED: Ride to PGH on FEB 2! 
wallet and keys inside Saturday, books at home. Call1-615-473-ND Basketball tickets. Will pay lots MR. E at Bridget's 
NOTICES 
Call x2880
January 20 at Bridget's. Please 7440 Ext. B340 o' cash.$$$$$$Call Colleen at 283-come out and stay out on thurs. return, great sentimental value. 4055ASAP. Drinking starts when you get there! 
Word Processing GIANNETTO'S PIZZA
Reward offered. Call Cathy at 284-ATTENTION-HIRING! MR. E starts at 10. Can return on disk (formerly of Notre Dame Ave.)
5228. 
Government jobs-your area. 

Pick up and delivery now open in Granger on the corner
$17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-838­Drummer needed for classic/hard271-9114 LOST: If you have a navy &tan Liz \ PERSONALS of Fir & St. Rd. 23. 

8885. Ext. R6262. 
rock band (singer is cousin of 

Offering free delivery & carry out David Coverdale) Call Vu at x1809 Claiborne leather shoulder bag 
BE YOUR OWN BOSS! that doesn't belong to you, Do you have two SATURDAY night service. 
orx3064Distributorships, Dealerships, PLEASE return it! Contains many Keenan Review tickets you would 277-8460. Money making opportunities. valuble items, including Sharp FOR RENT trade for two THURSDAY night HUMANITAS JOURNAL

Franchises. & Mail order. Detail. Graphic calculator, checkbook, tickets? Please call Matt at 283-RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has now accepting essays, fiction and
send $2.00 to: National Marketing etc! REWARD-no questions NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR 1961 and leave a message. rooms for Graduation weekend. Company. Box 3006, Boston. MA. asked! PLEASE call 283-4354 NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 Minimum stay 2 nights with $1 oo book reviews. Submit to English 02130 anytime! deposit per room. Send letter to Office by feb. 16th. 
4 Bdrm home for rent 

3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN TYPING AVAILABLE 1122 Blyler Place 
Needed: Anyone with any form 46514 or Call219-262-1581.

H'a been a blast tha laat 2 
of electronic percussion/drum 287-4082 (616)695-3786 

yaara-let'a make It a thlrdll 
machine/sampler/4­


WANTED 
NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP
SPRING BREAK 
tracklkeyboard for temporaryPROGRAM!!!!!!!

CASH FOR CARS. TRUCKS House for 1990-91 school year. 
Cancun, Rio, Bahama, 
experimental/industrial!performan

Tutor South Bend children ... 
regardless of condition. 277-9954. Do you have two SATURDAY night Furnished, secure home, 6 
and Bannuda 
ce art project. Call Jason at x3677. 

Sign up Tuesday and Wednesday In love? Sure? Find out. trade for two THURSDAY night Close to ND. 234-6688. 
Keenan Review tickets you would bdrms., 2 baths, competitive rent. 
Call Oou 283-1818 

in the dining halls .. Ned sat on the bed with Whitey onSol Gordon lecture 4:15 Library tickets? Please call Matt at 283-NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP his head Whitey let one go, it wasAuditorium. Wedneday. January 1961 and leave a message. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY PROGRAM!!!!!!!
SPRINGBREAK SAILING quite a show, but now Ned is dead. 
31. 219-291-7153. 
BAHAMAS 
WINTERFEST TOURNAMENTS
45ft Captained Yachts 
Hey Guys in 110, iiThink it's Love? Find out for sure. CAMP STAFF: 21+. Coed, SIGN-UPS

Groups of Eight Yes, it is rather silly, but -0
FOR RENT: 4 Bedroom borne 

Sol Gordon Lecture sleepaway camp. Massachusetts. 
Seven Days Barefoot in the BROOMBALL, VOLLEYBALL, Ya looked! I owe all of you 2. 
very clean, w /range. refrigerator, 

4:15pm Library Auditorium Some key positions avail. Also: 
Bahamas FLAG FOOTBALL Wednesday, January 31. WSI, lifeguard, arts & crafts, all 
fireplace, AC 
1019 E. Maiiison-Near ND 

$455.00 each All Accommodation SUB OFFICE ND/SMC Women's Lacrosseland and water sports, fitness, & Meals MON.-WED. 5-7 P.M. meeting/practice Wednesday at
Student Rate at $200/bedrm. -1 mo.

USED TEXTBOOKS gymnastics, piano/play for shows. 
SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE 4:00 on Madelevea Field. Bring
call 232-5563 

AT A DISCOUNT' drama, judo, dance, tennis, 1-800-999-7245 Anytime ••••••••wtNTERFESr··· your stick. Questions call Cathy Pandora's Books 233-2342 archery. photography, computers. 
284-5468 or Suzanne 283-3351 corner of N.D. ave. and Howard model rocketry. guitar. radio. 

ADOPTION TOURNAMENTS, BENDIX video. yearbook, newspaper. 

Doctor & artist, happily married, WOODS, CLUB TUESDAY, ICE A Ia nageuse,I WILL TYPE ANY PAPERS AT $3 wilderness, woodwork, RN typist. FOR SALE warm. seek white newborn to love SKATING, ALL-NIGHT MOVIES Quelle bonne forme vous exhibezA PAGE. CALL TANYA AT 239-6/18-8/20. CAMP EMERSON, 5 and cherish. Legal, confidential. 
en maillot'6299 Brassie Rd. Eastchester, NY DEC 350 Computer Please call Hanna & Mark collect 10707. 800/955-CAMP. with IBM compatible printer. 

(212) 864-5512 ••••••••wtNTERFEST.... Ride the Windy City during
MAIL BOXES ETC. Everything included. $500. February and get a
Shipping. Copies. Cards. SUMMER JOBS Call271-9810. 
Parrot Heads Forever !!! FEBRUARY 4 -I 0......... Windy City Survival Kit! 
Laser Quality For ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Come to the LaFortune Papers. Reports. Resumes. Etc. PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS Encyclopaedia Britannica. 
KEYBOARD1ST wanted to join McCORMICKS Information Desk for more277-MAIL ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS Immaculate. Plus year books established high-energy SATURDAY information.
NEAR LAKE PLACID and Annals of America collection. 
progressive rock/dance band. 
INTRA VENUS DE MILOGays and Lesbians CALL 1-800-343-8373 $500. 271-9810 Good equipment and attitude a "...they've got armadillos I need Tickets to the NO-Georgiaat Notre Dame/St. Mary's must, backing vocals a plus. in their trousers!" Tech Men's B-ball game. John 
P.O. Box 194 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! H ELL 0 '!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I want a ride to Champaign.IL on All interested contact: x3584Notre Dame, IN 46556 2/2. $$$. Doug X2358. 
Dennis #3281 ... Brian #1804 INTRAVENUS de MILO283-4256 ORIGINAL HANDMADE "bring needles ..." Do you have two SATURDAY nightPERUVIAN SWEATERS.
Please! Need ride to Purdue Keenan Review tickets you would How can you tell you are in Love? 
Feb. 2 Will share costs 
WINTERFEST 
trade for two THURSDAY nightSol Gordon Lecture Hurry up only two left.

291-6428 Mo If in need have faith and pray to 
tickets? Please call Matt at 283­4:15pm Library Auditorium Call Felix at X2362. 

Saint Jude. 
IS 
1961 and leave a message.

Wedneday. January 31 . 
WANTED: 4-6 players to start !!!!!!!!!!!!!!Hurry UP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
AD&D campaign. If interested call 
COMING!!!!! McDonnell Douglas Employer Bob at x1797. 
Reception: Wednesday, 1;31FOR SALE-adc graphic 
WINTERFEST 7:30 pm Theodore's Market Discover credit cards on

LOST/FOUND 
equalizer. hardly used. $125 
WINTERFEST
call Jon at 232-9469. 

your campus. Flexible hours. Earn WINTERFEST Interviewing with McDonnellLOST-Maryland License Plate­as much as $10/hr. Only 10 WINTERFEST Douglas?
"IRISH91". Reward. X1745. For sale: Commodore computer,
positions available. Call 1-800­WINTER FEST Interested in McDonnell Douglas?
disk drive, printer, accessories and950-8472, Ext. 3028. 

WINTERFEST McDonnell Douglas EmployerLost: set of roomkeys with tons o' software. Best offer-must WINTERFEST Reception: Wednesday, 1/31 1988 National Championship go. John x3584 WINTER FEST Theodore's 7:30 pmkeyring. If found please call 
SUMMER JOBS 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW/
WINTER FEST x1419 pOUNSELORS-Boys Camp, W. Mass. 

hi ag 
DAYJOIABEACH ,,..,1129•

I Girts Camp, Maine 
7 NIGHTS

POW/MIA BRACELETS-order inLost: Men's Signet Ring 


TICKETS

Top Salary, Rm!Bd!Laundry, Travel 
SOUTHPADIEISLAIID -'129•

dining halls now! Sponsored by And ... SEAN BROWN turns 21Initials DTC Allowance. 
5 OR 1 NIGHTS

Arnold Air Society on Feb. 8th!!!!! HAPPY B'DAY!
Call David x4779 Must love kids and have skill in one of 
SJ'WfiOAf -'101.
Do you have two SATURDAY nightthe following activities: 

2, 5 OR 1 NIGHTS 

Keenan Review.tickets you would POW/MIA BRACELETS-order VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give that LOST?: If you have a navy & tan Archery, Arts & Crahs, Baseball, 

FDif LAUDEIDALI -'1J2.

trade for two THURSDAY night yours today! special guy the best Valentine of all 
7 NIGHTS

leather Liz Claiborne shoulder bag Basketball, Bicycling, Chetlrleading, tickets? Please call Matt at 283--yourself -in a glamour portrait by that doesn't belong to you, 
HILTOII HEAD ISIAIID ,..'121•

Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Golf, 1961 and leave a message. Get ready for some LOVIN'!!! a nationally published model 
7 NIGHTS

PLEASE return it! Contained 3uitar, Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback, LOVEFEST IS BACK!! photographer. Details and free 

COIPUS tHIIm I

checkbook. Sharp graphic Karate, Lacrosse, Nature, Nurses, brochure. Joe Ringer. 287-0613.
calculator, and MANY other Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry, 


IIUSTAIIG ISUND -'99.
FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE 
5 OR 1 NIGHTS

Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Scuba, valuble items! REWARD-no I NEED 4 Georgia-TECH TIX ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF 
CALL roLL FREE 1l)t:\4Y

Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, questions asked! Please call 283­PLEASE CALL DON X1723 JUDOJUDOJUDOJUDOJUDO PRAYER AND JOYOUS Weights, Wood. Men call or write:4354 

t·B00·32t·59tt

COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A 
Camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, LOST: I lost my camera at 
WANTED: 2 KEENAN REVUE TIX Wed 8-9pm class Sun 4-6pm CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE:
Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) Pop Farley on Saturday night. 
FOR SAT NIGHT. WILL TRADE POOR GLARES,
381-5963. Women call or write: Camp If you find it, please call John 2 TIX FOR FRI NIGHT. CALL room 219 Rockne 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W., 
Vega, P.O. Box 1771, Duxbury, MA at x1453. Thankyou. 
JOHNAT1158. call 4053 for more info KOKOMO,IN 46901. 
02332 (617) 934-6536. 



Orlando magically destroys Pacers 
No felony charges on Strawberry 
AP Photo 

OHLANDO. Fla. (API -Terry Catledge scowd 31 points and Sam Vincent became the first Orlando player ever to record a tripiP-double as the expansion Magie beat the Indiana Pacers 129-1 I I TuPsday night. 
Vincent had 21 points. 11 re­bounds and 17 assists as Or­lando rPbounded from a 16­point first-half dPficit for its biggest honw victory. lie had 12 points in the fourth period wlwn Orlando used a 14-0 spreP to outsrorn Indiana 44­25. 
Tlw Magi!' won for just tlw fourth timP in its last 19 ganws. Indiana has lost fivp of six. 
Tlw :vtagir wPrn rankPd last in tlw NBA in scoring dPfPnsP. giving up almost 117 points a 
I.OS ANCEI.I·:S (AI'l -New York Mets outfiPider Darryl Strawlwrrv won't farP felony rhargPs for aiiPgPdly thrPatPn­ing his wifP with a gun. though less<•r charges could still be fiiPd against him. tlw distril't altonwy's offirP said Tuesday. 
"W1~ found that then~ was in­sufficient Pvidencl~ that any fplony violation was rommit­ted," said .James A. BakN. an assistant lwad dPputy in tlw Van Nuys offirP of Los AngPies District Attonwy's ofliel'. "We thus referrPd tlw rase to tlw city attonwy's ort'in~ for con­sideration as to wlwtlwr or not a misdPnwanor was commit­ted." 
Hick Schmidt. a deputy Los AngPies city attorney. said a decision would be made Wmlnesday. 

6~~ 
2FOR 

199 
game. but Orlando lwld the Pacers to 50 second-half points and forced 17 turnovers. 

Cavaliers 106, Heat 94 
.John Williams scored five of his 24 points during a key fourth-quarter surge as the Cleveland Cavaliers. using cen­ter Brad Dauglwrty for the first tinw this season. beat the Miami II eat 1 O(J-94 Tuesday night. 
Daugherty. bark from an in­jury. scored seven points in 15 minutPs. 
(:IPvPland. winning its third straight ganw after live con­secutive lossf~s. also got 21 points from Mark Price. GIPn HirP scorPd 19 points for Mi-
On Monday. Los Angeles Poliee Commander William Booth erroneously told The AssodatPd Press that fnlony charges had aln~ady been filed against Strawberry. The dis­trict attorney's offiee, however, had not yet reviewed the ease. 
Thn 27-year-old Strawberry was booked early last Friday at tlw Los Angeles Police I>Ppartment's West Valley Station on suspicion of assault with a deadly weapon following a domestic dispute at his home in rwarby Encino, Lt. Bill Gaida said. 
About two hours later. Gaida said. Strawberry was rnleased on $12,000 bail. 
Booth had said Monday that Strawberry "was "back with his wife." 
"It's no big deal. no big 

Special prices in effect thru February 4, 1990. We reserve the right to limit quantities. 
!fyQuil® 
SAVE 2.00. 14-oz. original or cherry flavor. 
1~9 

ADsell Latex Gloves 
SAVE 1.99. Ultra•Grip. Small, medium or large. 
ami. which has lost six straight. 
Bucks 109, Kings 102 
.Jaek Sikma and Brad Lohaus spurred a 15-4 fourth-quarter burst with 3-pointers and .Jay Humphries scored 13 points in the final period Tuesday night as the Milwaukee Burks beat the Sacramento Kings I 09-102. 
Lohaus' 3-pointer with 6:12 to go mad<~ it 94-87 and then Sikma hit his fourth 3-pointer of the game to makP it 97-88 with 5:27 remaining. 
Wayman Tisdale led the Kings with 31 points and Kenny Smith and Hodney McCray srornd 18 points each. 
problem." Strawberry's wif1~. Reggie Miller and the Indiana Pacers dropped a game to the Orlando Lisa. said Monday. "Tiwre's Magic Tuesday night in National Basketball Association action. nothing that eouldn't be fixed." r-----------------------------------, 
When officers arrivf'd at thP Strawberry house. thP 25-year­old woman said her husband slapped her in thn fae11 during a disagnwment. according to the police report. 
"Siw evidently grabbed a quarter-inch-diameter medal rod. used as a handle for fire­plaeP tools, and struek him in the rib rage and across tlw wrists." Gaida said. "She ac­cused Darryl of grabbing a .25­caliber semi-automatic pistol. which was registered to her. and threatening her." 
Strawberry was home when the offieers arrived. lie was taken into custody temporarily and police eonfiscated the loaded weapon. Gaida said. 










DRUGS 
3 FOR 

SAVE 90C-1.00. Hershey& 14-oz. Holidays, 
candy Bars
Valentine style, or 16-oz. M&M's. 
Regular 45¢ size.
100

Choice of flavors. 
Plain or peanut. 
(While quantities last.) 
Jlead
4FOR 

PortfoliosSoft Sense 
2-pockets.
Lotion 
Choice of colors. SAVE 50e. 2-Pocket portfolio witll 
100

1 0-oz. bottle. tangs, SAVE 1.00 Choice of formulas. 
. .... 4 FOR 1.00 

Phone ~e~!~. Ahead for 
~~~~~~"'
Hook's Pharmacist-In-Green a day ahead, and. it will be ready for you. 

Summer 1990 Like children? Like the Outdoors? Like Water Activities? 

Be a counselor in Pine River, MN at CAMP FOLEY 
We will be at SMC Feb 1 9:00-4:00 LeMans Lobby We will be at ND Feb2 9:00-4:00 
O'Hara Lounge LaFortune 
Now hiring counselors in 14 areas including swimming, tennis, sailing, and many more. 
Questions? Call Mike 283-3508 
7-UP, Sunldst1
.AS-Wor 
Squirt 
2-liter bottle. 
Regular or diet.

99; 

2FOR 
Jlead Theme Book 
SAVE 1.10. 70 sheets. wide or

88~ 
college rule. 


---------------------------~--­



------------------, 
Wednesday, January 31, 1990 The ObseNer page 13 
No. 6 Georgetown rebounds from loss to down Seton Hall 
LANDOVER. Md. (AP) ­Mark Tillmon scored 25 points Tuesday, including 16 in the de­cisive first half, as No. 6 Georgetown gained a share of first place in the Big East with a 70-48 victory over Seton Hall. 
The lloyas (16-2 and 6-2) never trailed in bouncing back from Saturday's 19-point loss to Syracuse and tying Connecticut for the league lead. Georgetown, which had lost two of its last three, built a 36­18 a halftime lead and never let tlw margin slip below 16 points the rest of the way. 
After Seton Hall closed to within 43-27. Tillmon scored five points in a 10-0 run that gave Georgetown a secure 53­27 advantage with 9:25 left. 
The Hoyas, who surrendered 95 points to Syracuse, turned up their defense a notch to dis­pose of the Pirates (10-8 and 3­5), who missed their first 12 field goal attempts and shot only 18 percent from the floor in the first half. Seton Hall didn't get its first basket until Oliver Taylor hit a short jumper with 6:13 elapsed. 
By that time Georgetown had a 7-0 lead. Although Seton Hall cut the gap to 15-12, a dunk by Alonzo Mourning and two stuffs by Dikembe Mutombo ig­nited a 21-4 run that was capped by consecutive 3-point­ers by Tillmon. 
The Pirates made only one field goal in the final 10 min­utes of the first half. 
Frantz Volcy scored 16 points for Seton Hall, which had a two-game winning streak snapped. The Pirates are now 1-8 at the Capital Centre, where Georgetown had its 27-game home winning streak snapped by Syracuse over the weekend. 
Dwayne Bryant scored 15 points for the Hoyas and Mourning added 12. 
Connecticut 94, Massachusetts 75 
Chris Smith scored 22 points and Tate George added 16 as No. 13 Connecticut beat Mas­sachusetts 94-75 Tuesday night. 
Connecticut (18-3) led 37-33 at halftime, then pulled away as Smith scored 14 points. The Huskies were ahead by as many as 1 7 points in the second half and Massachusetts (1 0-8) never got closer than eight. 
The Minutemen got within eight points with 3:51 left, but Connecticut closed the game with 11 straight points. 
Jim McCoy led Massachusetts with 22 points. Harper Williams scored 18 points and had eight rebounds for the Minutemen. 
George shot 7 -for-1 0 from the field and also had 12 assists and eight rebounds. Smith was 8-for-13 from the field. 
Massachusetts ;tayed close for awhile bee _ se of better foul shooting. T .. e Minutemen were 21 of 24, including 8-for-8 
by Williams, while Connecticut made 17 of 27 free throws. E. Illinois 80, Chicago St. 64 
Kevian Martin sank a pair of 3-pointers to spark an 11-0 run that brought Eastern Illinois from a 48-47 deficit to a lead it never relinquished as the Panthers beat Chicago State 80-64 Tueaday night. 
Chicago State (3-17) cut the Eastern advantage to 63-59 with 4:47 left, but the Panthers reeled off the next 10 points to open up the game. 
Eastern made 13 of 14 free throws in the final 1:19 and finished with 16 of 22 from the foul line. 
Only forstudentAmerican Express@ Cardmembers. Apply for the American Express~ Card. • 10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with speed the process.) Then get ready to take off. In search of your own personalized discount card, valid Keep in mind that our Automatic adventure, action-or just simply to escape. throughjanuary 1991 on all Northwest and Acceptance Program makes it easier for American Express and Northwest Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount you to become a Cardmember now, as a Airlines have arranged these extraordinary is not applicable to the $118 student student, than it will ever be again. travel privileges on Northwest-exclusively certificates and other certificates, And remember that as a Cardmem­for student Cardmembers: promotional or special status airfares.) ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits • CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE • 2,500 BONUS MILES 1DWARDS FREE TRAVEL­and personal service you would expect from OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-tO many when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks~ American Express. of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­Free Travel Program. So don't miss out on a world of great uous United States served by Northwest. experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBEREach certificate is good for a six-month the Card. And start packing!IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL.period, and they will arrive within six just pick up the phone, call1-800-942­-weeks after you receive the Card. Current AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take yourCardmembers will automatically receive application and begin to process ittheir $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 immediately. (If you have your banking provided they are still full time students~ information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help Membership Has Its Privileges~ APPLY TODAY 1-800-942-AMEX ~ NORTHWEST AIRLINES *If you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express, PO. Box 35029, Ann: Student Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Nonhwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. Ciry fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Aorida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. ©1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.  
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS~ CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER.  

------------~ ----­
~-------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, January 31, 1990 

Ellis 

continued from page 16 
Illinois officials have con­firmed that Ellis is involved in the investigation, and that Ellis' story matches that of Illinois recruit Deon Thomas. upon whom the investigation centPrs. 

The investigation is owr. and Illinois has been presented with a letter of inquiry. A NCAA hearing will be held, but no date has bPtm sent. 
MPanwhile, an assistant coach at the University of Iowa has deniPd that his school was the one who initially turned Illi­nois in for the Thomas recruit­ment. 
According to the report. Ellis was qtwstioned about the alle­gations by both NCAA investi­gators and attorney Mike Slive, who has been conducting the U of l's own investigation. 
Assistant coach Jimmy Collins. the chid recruiter for the lllini. has become the focus of tlw investigation, and the school has barred him from re­cruiting on the road until the mattt~r is settled. 
The probt• has so far centered on a taped tPlephone conversa­tion betwt~en Thomas and Iowa assistant coach Bruce Pearl in which Thomas reportedly said lw would receive $80,000 and an automobile if he attended Illinois. 
Pearl said Monday hn taped thP conversation because Iowa had bPPn accused of illegal rt'­cruiting practices, and he wanted to protnct himself. 


The Nation's 
Over 100 Centers Nationwide Proven Preparation ForThe Bar Exams 
Calilomil Florida Massachusetts 
Colorado IHinois Michigan 
Connecticut Maine New Hampstm 
Oist.af Cobnbil Maryt.nd New Jersey 
STANLEY H. 

KAPIAN-SMH 
BAR REVIEW SERVICES 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
"There was only one person who could clear me of those charges, and that was Deon Thomas," Pearl said. "So I de­cided to call Deon and ask him about his recruitment by Iowa and whether we had done any­thing illegal. I also asked him some questions about his re­cruitment by Illinois." 
Pearl said the NCAA was al­rnady investigating Illinois when he turned the tapn in. 
Thomas, a 19R9 graduate of Chicago's Simeon High School, has been held out of play for the lllini this season bncausn of the alleged irregularities in his recruiting. 
(The Associated Press con­tributed to this story) 

Irish 
continued from page 16 

during tlw 9-0 surge, but Sin­gleton also played a kny role with his three assists. 
"You've got to givn credit to Phonz and the big guys for get­ting to the boards and making the outlet passes." comml'ntt'd Singleton. "I had till' whole floor ahead of me and just had to wait for someone to sprint my way." 
The Irish were able to hold Knight and Corbitt, Dayton's two leading scorers and re­bounders, in check for most of the evnning. Corbitt picknd up a pair of fouls in the first s1wen minutes to limit his playing tim1~. Knight, after scoring nine points in the first 11 minutes, ended thn ganw with just 14. 
"They were lacking an insidn 40 minutt~s of Pmotional bas­ketball." 

NOTES: Notrt~ Danw is 10-0 wlwn it scores 80 or morn points ... Dayton has nevnr won at Notn~ Dame in 16 attempts... If tlw Irish had scored three more points, they would havn had consecutive 100-point games for the first time sinen the 1985-86 season (102-47 over Manhattan and 126-7:{ against MiamO ... Heading into Wednesday's game, the Irish ranked sixth in rebound margin (plus 9.9) and seventh in team • field goal percentage (52.5 pPr­cent). Hobinson ranknd 21st in the nation with his 61 pnrcnnt field goal aecurary. 
sex,lies,­and videotape 

SPORTS BRIEFS 

Equestrian Club is organizing lnssons for the spring snnwstnr. Call x2875 or x4215 for mort• information. 
Women's Lacrosse Club will pral'tirP at 4 p.m. Wednesday at Madnlnvna Field. call 2R4-54(,R or x:B51 for morn infor­mation. 
Ski Club will nwnt at X p.m. Thursday in 118 Nieuwland Sdencn. Tlw dub will take $200 deposits for tlw spring trip. Tlwrn arn a limitPd number of spact~s lnf't on tlw trip. Call x:{6(,2 or x2962 for mon~ information. 
Volunteers are needed to assist youngsters from Logan Ct•ntnr from 10 to 11 a.m. Friday. Fl'b. IJ, at thn MrKinley Srhool swimming pool. Call Logan Ct•ntnr at 2SIJ-4831 or lknnis Stark at 2:{9-598:{ for morn information. 
Sports Briefs are arceptl'd in writing at Tlw Ohsl'rVI'r in l.afortunt'. The Obst'rvnr dons not guaranten that briPfs will bl' printl'd and brit'fs will lw l'ditl'd for clarity and ll'ngth. Becaus1• of spa('(' constraints. no bril'f may run morl' than two tinws. 

Tickets: $2.00 • available at the International Offi«e 2nd Floor Lafortune Student Center, Notre Damt 
~~=~ ft:"<l ,~""!~, or at the door while they lor,~. t==~~ ~===:r .. :: f!,.t·=r..~:; ~fJNn.fW#.fiONAL STUDENT ORGANIZATION ~~~~ ~~~~J~/ ::%~~l~!:" 
scoring ganw because Corbitt didn't play much in tlw first half." said KPith Hobinson, who n~cordPd eight rebounds. "That hurt llwm a lot offensively." 
Corbitt, who was held to four points in the first hair. hit a jump hook in the first minutP of the second half that cut Notre Dame's lead to 47-40. The Fly­ers got no doser. 
The Irish followPd Corbitt's baskHt with a 10-2 run, high­lightHd by an alley-oop from SinglHton to Ellis. That put thH Irish up 15 points, and though Dayton freely substituted its players throughout the game, the Flyers looked too tired to amount any kind of comeback. 
"We didn't play with enough emotion to come in here and get an upset," said O'Brien. "My biggest disappointment is that I didn't prt~pare my guys to play 


Bennett 
continued from page 16 
Sweet again on an alley-oop to 
boost the margin to 76-58. 
Thirty seconds later, Bennett 
faked the alley-oop to Sweet 
and hit a driving lay-up. 
Bennett finished 5-of-8 from 
the field and 8-of-1 0 from the 
line. His live turnovers were the 
only blemish on the night, but 
most of those can be attributed 
to the Notre Dame's uptempo 
game. The seven assists broke his previous career mark of live set against both San Francisco and La Salle. 

"I think it was one of my best games except for the turnovers," Bennett com­mented. 
Said Irish co-captain Joe Fredrick, "He played really well and dropped the ball off a lot. Elmer is a great scorer and he proved that tonight." 
Now, the challenge for Ben­nett is to maintain this level of play when the Irish begin a three-game road swing Sunday at Duke. 
Graduate Fellowships for Women in Science and Engineering We are pleased to announce that The Catholic University ofAmerica has been selected as an original recipient of one of the initial grants of the Claire Booth Luce Fund, a program of The Henry Luce Foundation. Three two-year graduate fellowships for women are offered in science (biology, chemistry, or physics) and engineering. Each of the three women selected will receive approximately $23,000 a year beginning in fall1990. Applicants, who must be U.S. citizens, should submit transcripts, GRE scores, a one-page letter ofprofessional intent, and letters from two academic referees by March 1, 1990, to: The Coordinator ofGraduate Student Services 300 McMahon Hall, Dept. W THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA Washington, D.C. 20064  

·~---------------­
Wednesday, January 31, 1990 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
12:10 p.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous at Holy Cross Mission House. 8 p.m. A conversation on Gender and Cultural Differences with Sol Gordon, at Grace Hall. 
9 p.m. Movie "Do the Right Thing," Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Free Admission. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Wednesday 
4 p.m. "Nightmares of Latin American Exporters Anti­Dumping and Countervailing Duties," by Shane Hunt, Department of Economics, Boston University in 131 Decio Faculty Hall. Sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
4:15p.m. "How Can You Tell You are in Love?" by Sol Gordon, Professor Emeritus, Syracuse University. I-lesburgh Memorial Library Auditorium. Sponsored by Year of the Family, Committee on Multicultural Diversity, University Counseling Center, and Gender Studies Dept. 
4:20 p.m. "First Results from the IUCF Cooler Experiments," by H. 0. Meyer, IU Bloomington in Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by Dept. of Physics. 
7:30p.m. "Women Priests: Vision for the Year 2000," by Ruth Fitzpatrick. Memorial Library Auditorium. Sponsored by Women's Ordination Committee. 

MENUS 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
BBQ Ribs Turkey Cutlet w/Parsley Sauce Stir Fry Beef and Peppers Cheese Blintzes Eggplant Parmesan Spaghetti w/Meat or Marinara Threo Cheese Croissant Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 




\JATcH Tllo5£ HANDS, BUSTtRI 

To his horror, Irving suddenly realized he had failed to check his own boots before putting them on just minutes ago . 
56 Last Greek letter 59 Anthony's loan request 60 Close 
hermetically 61 "-Vice" 62 Civil disturbance 63 Champagne 
popper 64 Indian lute 65 Apartheid 
country: Abbr. 66 Remnants 
DOWN 
1 Bed support 2 Apiece 3 Douglas Hyde's 
land 4 Washer function 5 Like Molly 
Malone's cockles 6 Lesions 7 German industrial basin 8 Birchbark 9 Shortened sail 10 Altar constellation 
11 Command to 
Marmaduke 12 "For-a jolly good fellow" 
15 Handel oratorio 
ACROSS 
1 Ooze 5 Salaam's beast aStock-market 
bugaboo 13 Puma's pad 14 Rich soil 16 Hawk's home 17 Farm measure 18Dies­19--footoil 20 Start of a 
quotation 23 French aits 24 Disdainful one 28 Lake in Ireland 30 Help 31 Art cult 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
32 Transfusion fluid 34 Butts 36 Dah's partner 37 Middle of the 
quotation 40 On: Prefix 41 Fr. holy women 42 Southwestern 
Indian 43 State bird of Hawaii 45 Monarch in 
Madrid 46 Guys' dates 47 Tonsil's 
neighbor 49 So be it 51 End of the 
quotation 

50 Memorable "hostess with the mostes'" 
52 Blond 53 Tube light 54 Funny fellow 55 Benevolent 
brothers 56 Ashram sounds 57 Cato's 1002 58 Take 
nourishment 

21 Fragrant resins 
22 Mr. Bones, e.g. 
25 Type of tire 
26 Pial and Wharton 
27 Hoffman in "Midnight Cowboy" 28 Spared Dad the marriage money 
29 Narrow, deep-sided valley 
30 --craftsy 32 Full assemblies 33 Norwegian 
princess 35 Old hand 38 More indigent 39 Fade away 44 Puzzle 48Walking­
(elated) 49 Hair styles 
.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.
~ • ~ Auditions for • 
: _,Jli.<J ~ e;<J THE Movie: Do the Right Thing "Did He Do the Right Thing?" : 
e -.:::.,0."0'/ \<~ F'ANmA C1T'TC'TTC1 Panel Discussion with: •• • 
e v :v .1..r10 .L' .no Wednesday, Jan. 31 -Mr. Kenneth Durgans ~~~ ctors: Sin~g and Non-singing 9pm Cushl"ng Aud. (Office of Minority Affairs) •
• 
!¢j parts -Mr. Percival Everett 

• 
~ Musicians: Piano, Keyboard, Harp, Admission: Free (Professor of English) •. 


• Percussion, String Bass
e Will be held on Thursday, Feb. 1 e e Monday, _February 5th and 8:30pm Center for Social Concerns e 
• Tuesda , February 6th. e
sponsored by: SUB, Hispanic • Sign up for a time at the SUB secretary's American Org., Democratic • • desk, 2nd floor LaFortune, by February 2nd. Socialists of America, and • 
• Black Cultural Arts. • 
• Please prepare a song, STUDENT UNION BOARO • 
• but not a monologue. • 


Sports
page 16 Wednesday, January 31, 1990 
Notre Dame grounds Flyers with its own high-flying act 
Irish turn Dayton's press into fast-break buckets 

By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
Owr tlw last !'Ouple of years, tlw Notre Danw nwn 's baskPt­ball team has talkPd about its ability to win with tlw running ganw. 
ThP Irish went out and provPd it TuPsday at tlw JoycP ACC, rocking Dayton 97-79 to rlosP out a pPrfnrt three-game honwstand. Notre Dame hPads back to tlw road Sunday for a nationally-tclevisPd Pncountpr with fifth-rankPd Dukn. 
"WP playPd as well as we have all yPar." said Irish coach Dig­gPr l'hPips, whosP team upped its n~rord to I 1-6. "Our kids nxncutPd a pPrl'twt gaml' plan on both Pnds of thl' floor." 
Dayton I 11-7) likes to run and nntPrcd Tuesday's contPst avPraging 1)0 points pPr ganw. tlw I Mh lwst scoring ofTensc in thP country. But tlw Irish. IPd by tlw point guard duo of Tim SingiPton and l~lmPr BPn1wtt, outst·orPd Dayton 36-19 on fast-brPak points. 
"You 'vp got to know what to do against tlwir pressun~." said l'lwlps. "If WP PXPCUtPd against tlwir press, wP knt>w we'd gPl a lot of quick :!-on-2 and 2-on-1 situations." 
Singll'lon and BPn1wtt made surP to capitalize on those op­portunities. Bennett finished with 1 H points, o1w of four Irish playPrs in double figurPs, and sPvPn assists. Singleton 


Investigation involves Ellis 
By  THERESA  KELLY  
Sports Editor  
Notre  Dame  basketball  

player LaPhonso Ellis may havp touched ofT the investi­gation into the Univt>rsity of Illinois basketball program. 
The Chicago Tribune rn­portcd Tuesday that NCAA and Illinois sources had ronlirmed that Ellis told in­vestigators Illinois offpred him money to play baskntball tlwrc. 
Ellis and Notre DamP head coach Digg1~r Phelps arn not commPnting on Ellis' partic­ipation in tlw inwstigation. 
see ELLIS I page 14 

only reeordnd two points, but the junior from New Orleans dislwd off a snason-high 12 as­sists. 
"Tiwy out-quicked us at IWPry position,'' said first-year Day­ton coar.h Jim O'Brien. "They have considerable speed, and then they did a very nice job of 
The Observer I Steve Moskop 

spacing thn roun. Wlwn we 
pressed, tlwy spaePd so wnll 
that we couldn't trap thmn." 
Irish renter Keith Hobinson 
led all scornrs with 23 points, 
while Joe Fredrirk had 16 and 
l.aPhonso Ellis added 13. An­
thony Corbitt scornd 21 points 
for Dayton, followed by Negele 
Knight with 14 and Norm 
Grevey with 10. 
Dayton gave the Irish all 
kinds of problems for much of 
the first half. Thn Flyers took a 
quirk 11-5 lead and maintained 
tlw advantage for most of the 
opening 10 minutns. 
After Noland Hobinson's bas­knt tied the game at 30 with 
6:03 left in thn half. thf' Irish took control. 
Notrl' Dame seornd tlw nPxt 
nine points and ewntually built 
it into a 17-4 run that put the 
Irish up 47-34 in thn last 
minute before intermission. 
Dayton hit four fnw throws in 
tlw last 35 seconds to head into 
the lockPr room trailing 47-3H. 
"We just had onn of those 
lapses," Ellis remarked about 
tlw play narly in the ganw. "We 
told naeh othnr, 'Let's go, it's 
timl' to go,' and just pickPd up 
tlw intensity." 
Fredrick scored six points 
see IRISH/ page 14 

Bennett sparks win by playing to potential 
By GREG GUFFEY "Bennt~tt played as well as to shoot every day. I had to gPl Assistant Sports Editor he's played," Notre Dame coach back into my rhythm." Digger Phelps commPnted. "lin BPniH'tl wasted littiP limP w·t­
Elmer Bennett entered Notre played a big-time game tonight ting into his rhythm against tlw Dame's three-game homestand at both ends of the floor." Flyers. lie Pntnwd tlw ganw looking to become more active Said Notre Dame's Daimon with 13:22 to play in tlw first in the Irish offense. Sweet, "lie just went out and half and scon~d his first points 
lie ended the stretch as the executed everything that he's -two frm~ throws -just 3H sPc­offensive spark of a surging done in practice. It didn't sur­onds latPr. Notre Dame team, scoring 18 prise anybody on this team." lie added four eonsecutivn points and dishing out seven Bennett knew he nended to Irish points midway through assists to help the Irish to a 97-play a bigger role in the Irish tlw half. but his biggest contri­79 victory over Dayton Tuesday offense during this crucial bution was a picture-perfect al­night in the Joyce ACC. stretch of games. He also knew ley-oop pass to Sw1~et that 
It was the third consecutive that he hadn't filled that role broke both the Dayton press win for the Irish and capped a during the 3-3 road swing. In and the 26-26 tin. From them. big turnaround for Bennett, the last five games of that trip, Notw Damn tallied 11 of tlw who had struggled during Bennett scored 15 total points. next 13 points to take a 39-30 Notre Dame's recent six-game lie ended that slump with 11 advantage. roadtrip. points against both Wiehita "I just think it's one of tlw 
Bennett played an all-around State last Wednesday and Mi­duties of the point guard to gnt game for the 11-6 Irish. In ad­ami (Fla.) last Saturday. The other people scoring too," Ben­dition to his scoring and pass­capper of 18 points was just nett said. ing. he was instrumental in one below his career high, while Notre Dame's success against the seven assists set a new BemwU turned it up a notr.h the Flyer press and combined mark. in the second half'. lie r.amn into with Tim Singleton to hold the game with 13:43 remaining, Dayton's leading scorer, Negele "I don't feel like I'm effective scored twice on a jump shot Knight, to 14 points. Eight of if I'm not scoring," Bennett re­and a driv1~. then combined with those points came on free marked. "Before the three­

Monty Williams lays in two points for the Irish in Tuesday's victory over Dayton. Williams and the Irish will travel to Duke on Sunday. 
• 
see BENNETI I page 14
throws. game homestand, I came early 
Murphy's enthusiasm brings life to Irish baseball program 
Pat Murphy remembers He won't run anything bark, but he might hit some­lost the attitude. We're going to continue to win and wlwn lw used to make week­thing out of bounds with his bat." continue to be a good program." end treks from Syracuse, N.Y., Whatever comparisons Murphy might make, either The pitching staff' is loaded with highly-n~garded to Notre Dame without a seriously or in jest, the third-year Irish coach is re­freshmen, such as Alan Walania, Pat Leahy, David ganw tir.kt~t. just in hopes that vamping Irish baseball at such a rate that it might Sinnes, Chad Hartvigson and Chris Michalak. They 
he might manage to aequirn a be on the verge of escaping from the shadows of join veterans like Brian Piotrowiez, Brian Conway, pass to that wet>kend's foot­Notre Dame's hallowed football and basketball pro­Joe Binkiewicz and Mike Coffey. ball contest. Now the Irish grams. The infield includes Binkiewicz and Jacobs at first, basnball eoaeh, he is often Before Murphy took over, the Irish had not en­the steady Corey Mee at second, Mike Coss at short found ehenring on the Irish joyed a winning season since 1982. Under Murphy's and Craig Counsell alternating with .Jason Martinez from the Notre Dame Stadium energetic and tireless direction, Notre Dame im­at third. sidelines. proved to 39-22 two seasons ago and went 48-19 Captain Ed Lund is behind the plate, and a host of 
So it's only natural that last season. The latter mark included a school players are vying for starting jobs in the outfield. when hn talks about this sea-record for wins in a season and the school's first Once again, the Irish will have to live the life of 
• 
son's Irish baseball team, the Irish Items 
NCAA Tournament berth since 1970. any Northern college baseball team, playing several football analogies never stop. This is a key year in finding out just far Notre games in warm-weather sites before opening their 
lie pokes fun at Mike Hotkis, pinehhitter extraor­Dame baseball has come. The Irish have lost practi­home season. The Irish will have played at least 17 dinaire and a contender for an outfield spot, by cally all of last season's starters, including All­games by the Illinois comes to Coveleski Stadium ealling him "as slow as (offensive lineman) Tim America outfielder and Golden Spikes Award finalist March 31 for Notre Dame's home opener. The gamn Grunhard." Dan Peltier. with Illinois, ranked eighth in the Baseball America 
Discussing the importance of first baseman Frank "Everybody's going to expect us to be down," said pre-season poll, will be telecast on ESPN. .Jaeobs, who moonlights as a tight end for the Or­Murphy. "What we've built with 87 wins the last two "''m more excited about this group than any I"ve ange Bowl champions, Murphy says that "he's our years is an attitude that can't be taken away. Just ever been with;" said Murphy. "They have worked Hocket Ismail. He can chanl{e the game in one play. because we've lost some players doesn't mean we've harder or as hard as any other bunch." 
L______________________________________________________________________________________ 

_ 






