
.... 
1991 ND cheerleading tryouts may have been unfair 
,_,._J ·-'/..:, 
1,'  
~  
()0::. ..-·-·115191  
SPECIAL  
v.z~.f¥1  HESBURGH . L J.  .. E: fi• AFi' y·  
VOL. XXIII NO. 141  -.......,.~NOTFi:£  DANE  IN  4t~t=::o:::·  .ME AND $AINT MARY'S ,  FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1991 ~ ..  


New ~tudents must complete service requirements 

By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
Students should be required to complete a one-credit service requirement before graduating from the University, according to Rob Pasin, chair of the Stu­dent Government Board of Trustees Report on service ac­tivity at Notre Dame. 
"Service/Social Awareness at Notre Dame," the report pre­sented Wednesday to the Stu­dent Affairs Committee of the Board, concluded that a ser­vice/social awareness require­ment for students in their first year at ND is necessary if the University is to remain true to its goal to produce graduates who "desire to lead meaningful and purposeful lives in the Christian tradition." 
"At its most basic level, Notre 
Studying in the sunshine 

Susan Zilvitis takes advantage of the nice weather by studying outside near Washington Hall. With finals rapidly approaching more students may be taking their studies outdoors. 
Dame's goal is to produce peo­ple who go out in the world and make it a better place," said Pasin, 1990-91 Student Body President. Service work is one way that students can improve the world around them. 
Approximately 50 percent of the student body is presently involved in volunteer work, Pasin said. The committee rec­ommended the service require­ment in order to get more stu­dents involved as well as fur­ther the Church's belief in the value of social awareness. 
..We didn't recommend a 3­credit course, because we just want a minimal introduction into this realm of social aware­ness," he said. "We just want to give them a taste· of what it's like." 
"Many students who may never have engaged in 
• Class Size I see page 7 
volunteer work would learn the importance of service/social awareness, which would foster within them a social sensitivity, .. the report reads. 
The report recommends that the requirement be completed in the freshman year in order to acquaint new students with the "location, nature, and purpose of the Center for Social Concerns" (CSC) early on in their Notre Dame experience. This requirement should be im­plemented for the entering freshmen in 1993. 
The recommendation includes the hiring of a full-time staff member at the esc to coordi­nate the program. This coordi­nator would be assisted by a 
The Observer/Kenneth Osgood 


Editor's note: Following the recent tryouts for the Notre Dame cheerleading squad, The Observer received letters to the editor questioning the selection process. In an effort to investi­gate these claims and learn about how the cheerleaders are chosen, The Observer inter­viewed cheerleaders, students who tried out for the squad. and the cheerleading coach. The Observer regrets that this topic could not be addressed until the last issue of the year, preventing those with addi­tional opinions from writing Letters to The Editor. 
By MEREDITH MCULLOUGH News Writer 
The judging, confidentiality in scoring, and possibility of bi­ased decisions in the process of selection of Notre Dame cheer­leaders have been called into question by recent letters to the editor of The Observer and by students expressing vocal con­cern that the tryouts may have been unfair. 
"The judge's scores were al­most completely disregarded in the selecting the squad for next year," wrote Amy Cashore of Howard Hall. 
Ken Bordignon of Dillon added to Cashore's comment writing, "This causes me to wonder what criterion was used in the selection during tryouts." 
Maria Majerek, the squad's coach for the past four seasons, said she considered the letters to The Observer "a slam" and expressed regret that such questions were raised. 
"I hate to think I have to jus­tify or explain the choices," Majerek said. "Sometimes things happen. There is a rea­son for everything ... I wish I could take everyone, but I have to abide by the rules established by the University." 
"Every year there are people who don't make it," said Ma­jerek...The ideal situation would be to have a junior var­sity squad." 
A few students who did not make the squad tried to coordi­nate a ..reserve squad" or a cheerleading club. Due to un­foreseen difficulties about recognition and funding, and misunderstandings about whom would be a part of this club, those students involved said it is questionable whether or not the club will materialize. 
Majerek said she would have no part in this possible organi­zation. 
The decision of which stu­dents would make the squad was based upon the set of scores from a six-judge panel, including herself, who wit­nessed two days of tryouts and an interview after the first cut. 
Judges were chosen by Ma­jerek among individuals in­volved in athletics and knowl­edgeable about cheerleading. 
The tryout process officially began at an informal meeting about six weeks ago in which Majerek explained the require­ments and time commitment of ND cheerleading. 
According to Majerek, candi­dates must excel in four basic stunts-two with veteran cheerleaders and two with other candidates. Males had to be able to complete a back tuck, females a round ofT and a back hand-spring. 
Both male and female candi­dates needed toe-touch skills, she said. 
All students trying out for 
cheerleading were required to perform an "optional" one and a half minute routine, a fight song , a cadence, and a "hell dance, "which they learned two days before try-outs, she said. 
After the decisions were made, many students involved said they were dissatisfied with the way the tryouts were han­dled. 
According to one student, "the scores seemed irrelevant." He said he feels some of the candidates could do neither the required stunts nor the dance, while others could do every­thing. The choices for the squad did not reflect these ob­servations, he said. 
Another student agreed, and said that "those with the best scores didn't make it." She called the entire process "a slap in the face." 
Majerek denied accusations that the selection process did not reflect the individuals' scores. 
For each stunt or routine, she said, candidates' scores were recorded on a judging sheet. Completed sheets were put in a sealed envelope until they were tallied by a Certified Public Ac-group of 30 juniors and seniors who have been involved at the 
esc. 
Both the CSC and the admin­
istration are in support of such 
a requirement, Pasin said. 
Discussion at the meeting fo­cused on the logistics of such a requirement. One member said that the differences in time commitment for various service activities would present "a dis­crepancy" in the program. An­other said that although many people might benefit from the introduction to social aware­ness, others would .. be doing the bare minimum" to complete the requirement, and learn nothing in the process. 
Fearing "institutional disas­ters" that could occur if such a mandatory requirement were implemented in the freshmen year, one trustee suggested a 
Pope endorses market economy 
By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
Pope John Paul II's new en­cyclical "Centesimus Annus," ("100 Years,") contains the Catholic Church's first en­dorsement of a market-style economy, according to Associ­ate Provost Father Oliver Williams. 
The encyclical, released Thursday, called the free mar­ket "the most efficient instru­ment for utilizing resources and effectively responding to needs," but that it should be a system which "recognizes the fundamental and positive role of business, the market, the private property and the result­ing responsibility for the means of production, as well as free human creativity in the eco­nomic sector." 
Williams, who is also an as­sociate professor of manage­ment, said that the letter calls for what he called a "harnessed" form of the free market, where the state would guarantee the basic needs of the society. "We must make sure that the market economy doesn't neglect humans." 
The letter said that profit does have "a legitimate role ... as an indication that a business is functioning well... Williams called this statement a depar­ture from past Church doctrine. "It used to be that 'profit' was a dirty word," he said. 

However, the letter went on to say that profit is not the only measure of a business' success. "It is possible for the financial accounts to be in order and yet for the people -who make up 
see POPEl page 4 
compromise that would allow students the opportunity to complete the requirement over four years. 
Still, whether or not such a program should be a require­ment at all was topic for debate, as some trustees said they felt the spirit of volunteerism should not be mandated by others. The report agreed with a 1983 University Curriculum Committee that said voluntary participation in service activi­ties is preferable, but noted that "reality indicates that people often do not initiate charitable work until it is required of them." 
Report committee members argued that since the University requires courses like Theology to carry out its mission, its 
see TRUSTEE/ page 4 

countant. 
No one besides the judges and Majerek saw the scores, so no one could know which students scored the highest, she claimed. 
However, two different stu­dents came forth with stories about candidates who did not make the squad but were ap­proached by judges congratu­lating them for making it. This discrepancy occurred both this 
see CHEER! pageS 
oodluckto 
NO and SMC 


students on 

final exams 

Today is the last issue of The Observer for the 1990-91 academic year. A com­mencement issue will be published May 17. The Ob­server wishes all members o the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community good luck on finals and a safe, successful summer. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



It's time to take a stand Father Malloy 
When this year goes down in the history books, it won't be remembered as one of Notre Dame's best. It's been a tough year under the Dome and the Administration's 

increasing inability  to  Kelley Tuthill  
effectively read situations  
and respond effectively is  Editor-in-Chief  

starting to have some-------­negative ramifications for this school. 
The biggest sufferers of the year are un­doubtedly women and members of ethnic minorities. From the miserable failure of the Year of Women to the outcries of SUFR, it has become clear that our University is not meeting the needs of its women and ethnic minorities. 
Is life that unbearable at Notre Dame for women and members of ethnic minority groups? No, not in most cases. But is the quality of life for women and members of ethnic minorities equal to that of most white males? I don't think 
so. 
To date, all the University has offered is Band­Aid solutions. Father Malloy and others sit in their offices and say: "Well, ___ has been grumbling lately. How 'bout we dedicate a year to them, maybe that will make them happy." His advisors respond: "Yes, Father. Good idea." 
Or Father Malloy says: "Advisors, __ seems unhappy. Let's examine their situation through a task force." His advisors respond: "Yes, Father, good idea. Let's get out our 'list of frequently used experts and otherwise high-level, yet obedient, officials to chair these committees.'" 
Next step: Some people who barely have enough time to eat a meal arrange a group o people who are also very busy, yet high profile, to sit on a committee. These people plan a bunch of lectures, debates and festivals that are only attended by those already aware of such issues. After all, if Father Malloy and other high-level officials don't attend these events, why should we expect anyone else would find them important? 
Second scenario: A task force of these same busy types gets together and does some studies, interviews some people. After a few months, they issue a report to some people who never offer a substantive response. Yet, the University can say it has studied the problem. 
Why doesn't Notre Dame put take a valuable resource-monev-and allocate it well for a change. Let's take that Year of Women money and use it to pay the salaries of full-time high­level people who could be hired to serve as directors of women's affairs and minority affairs. 
These people would have to have time, funding and power to make real changes at Notre Dame. They should be responsive to the needs of female and minority students, faculty and staff. 
Father Malloy: It is time to take a stand and make some changes around here. As you learned with the SUFR situation-there's only so long you can continue to pass the buck. 
Today's staff: 
Production: Jeanne Blasi Melissa Cusack Kathy Fong 
Minister of Sports: Rolando deAguiar 
Scoreboard: Irwin M. Fletcher 
Accent: Shonda Wilson John Fischer Michelle Devers Champagne Martinez 
Art Guru: Jake Frost 
Graphics: Ann-Marie Conrado Brendan Regan 
Lab Tech: Macy Hueckel 
Viewpoint: Michael Krause 
News: Lauren Aquino Meredith McCullough Paul Pearson 
Photographers: John Rock 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
INDIANA 
Seek Pollard commutation 

•sOUTH BEND, Ind. -The American section of the World Jewish Congress is urging Jonathan Jay Pollard's life sentence be commuted to time served since his 1986 guilty plea to federal charges that he gave classified documents to Israel. Pollard, formerly of South Bend, is serving his sentence in solitary confinement at the federal correctional facility in Marion, Ill. The American section of the World Jewish Congress represents 40 Jewish groups in the United States. Last fall, a federal court in Washington, D.C., denied Pollard's petition to 
OF INTEREST 
• 
The Fireworks Show that An Tostal '91 scheduled for Psychedelic Psaturday will take place on Stepan Field tonight at 9 p.m. The show will last approx. 20 minutes and An Tostal souvenirs will be given away to the first 300 in attendance. Raindate: Saturday, 9 p.m. 

• 
Refrigerator returns! It is your responsibility to bring the refrigerator to either Stepan Basketball Courts (12 


p.m. -3 p.m.) or Lyons Court (3:30 p.m.-6 p.m.). Please defrost, clean and dry your unit completely. 
• 
Coat hangers are being collected in each dorm to raise money for the homeless. Interested students should inquire with their dorm's social service commissioners. 

• 
Seniors! There is still time to volunteer for next year. The Puerto Rico Volunteer Program has openings. For more information, stop by or call the CSC as soon as possible. There are other opportunities available as well. 

• 
Any seniors who are volunteering next year must register with the Center for Social Concerns today! 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/May 2 

VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 187.09 Million 208.26 .. .23 


S&P COMPOSI1E A 380.52 "'tf .23 OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,938.61 • 8.41 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD f-$ l.OOto $355.00/oz. Sll.. VER it 4.25¢ to $3.994/oz. 
' . 
.' 

withdraw his guilty plea and stand trial on the charges against him. 
CAMPUS 

Watch NO commencement in CCE 
•Those unable to attend the University of Notre Dame's commencement exercises in person May 19 may watch the ceremonies live and free of charge on closed circuit television at the University's Center for Continuing Education (CCE). The CCE will be open to the public throughout the day and can accommodate as many as 700 commencement viewers in its various meeting facilities. Seating for more than 400 will be available in the center's auditorium. Rooms will be available for seating at noon for the 2 p.m. ceremonies. 
Davisson cluster dedicated today 
liThe computer cluster in Room 248 O'Shaughnessy will be dedicated as the "Davisson Computer Cluster" today at 4 p.m. in honor of Professor William (Bill) Davisson, who died of liver disease in 1989. Davisson designed and built the original O'Shaughnessy computer lab and managed it until the fall of 1988, when it became supported and maintained by the Office of University Computing. There will be a short, simple dedication for the renaming of the cluster. 
• 
A position Is open at Washington Hall for the summer (approx. 20 hrs./wk) Work-study positions are also open for the fall. Call Tom Barkes at 239-5956 if in­terested. 

• 
Seniors! Career and Placement Services will be set up in the Hesburgh Library Concourse from 10 a.m. until 2 


p.m. Tuesday and Wednesday to collect "Future Plans/Job Offer ... " forms that were sent earlier this spring. 
• 
One-act Directing finals are to be performed today starting at 7 p.m. in the LAB Theatre at Washington Hall. Each of ten student directors will showcase their work. 

• 
Bookstore Basketball referees can pick up their checks in the Student Government Treasurer's Office beginning Wednesday. 

• 
The sisters at Saint Mary's Convent would like to thank the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who visited them this year and would like them to know that they are praying for their intentions. 


ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1764: The first U.S. medical school was proposed at t'!:J.e College of Philadelphia, now the University of Pennsylvania. 

• 
In 1979: Conservative Party leader Margaret Thatcher was chosen to become Britain's first female prime minister. 

• 
In 1987: The Miami Herald said its reporters had observed a young woman entering a Washington town­house belonging to Democratic presidential candidate Gary Hart. 

• 
One year ago: The federal government formally approved the use of the drug AZT to treat children infected with the AIDS virus. 


't 1 '. 
Friday, May 3, 1991 The Observer page 3 

The Observer/Joe Fabbre

Bengal Bouts present check 
Notre Dame Bengal Bouts present check to the Holy Cross mission in Bangladesh. Shown here: (left to right) Father Jim Ferguson, director of the mission, Father Bill Cutch, chaplain of Bengal Bouts, Timothy Phelan, president of NO Boxing Club, Norm Conley, and Walter Rogers, director of NO Bengal Bouts. 

To KOO£Y 

HAPPY 21st! 


' 





U.P.S. 

SERVICE DAILY 



Country :J-farvester 
Mmufay tlim !Trilkg 12 to 5 Saturtlay 11 to 2 '4Jmt{d !JWurs 'Durin.fJ !T'tnafs i.qwer Level of La!Tortutu 
239-6714 



REMEMBER MAMA LOVES YOU 
BUT, long before she loved you she loved Saturday night dates with Dad, Elvis Presley records, poodle skirts and school dances chaperoned by nuns. She grew up in neighborhoods where birth control was as popular as leprosy and the thirteenth commandment was religiously practiced, ''Thou shalt not eat meat on Fridays." (Said law rumored to have been decreed by a pope whose brother owned a fish market.) 
This Mother's Day remember Mama with a copy of, VIS REVISITED, as advertised in Parade Magazine, by Alice Halpin Collins. Its 311, hard covered, pages are filled with humorous stories and heart tugging vignettes of growing up Catholic in a big city Irish neighborhood. Mama will laugh out loud, shed a tear or two and be so happy that, VIS REVISITED, is hers to enjoy long after the flowers of Mother's Day have wilted. 
TO ORDER OR PICK UP CALL DAN COLLINS, GRACE HALL, ROOM 924, 283-4057. ORDERS SHIPPED U.P.S. FREE OF CHARGE. ORDER BY TIJESDA Y FOR DELIVERY ON FRIDAY IN TIME FOR MOniER'S DAY. 
$19.95 plus $1.39 tax 


Alumni Award presented 
Special to The Observer 
Lisa Mackett, a senior from Reynoldsburg, Ohio, has been named the 1991 recipient of the Notre Dame Alumni Association Distinguished Student Award. 
Mackett, who is majoring in government and international relations, is a resident assistant in Knott Hall. During her 

undergraduate  years  she  
served  as  student  body  
representative  on  the  

University Task Force on Evangelization, Pastoral Ministry and Social Values and was involved in formulating the pl.an for the University recy­clmg program. 

A Sunday school teacher, a runaway shelter volunteer, and an intern in the congressional district office of U.S. Rep. Tim Roemer, Mackett has been in­volved in a number of commu­nity projects. For example, Mackett developed educational and health programs for inner 
city children at St. Stephen's Community Center in Columbus, Ohio, and while studying in London during her junior year she tutored Muslim students in English. 
During her freshman year ~a~kett, then employed as a dmmg hall worker, noticed that a significant amount of un­served food was being thrown out. Due to her efforts this po­tential waste instead came to be donated to homeless shel­ters in the South Bend commu­nity. This was the founding the "Foodshare" program which 
now delivers 15,000 meals each year from the dining halls to area shelters. 


page4 The Observer Friday, May 3, 1991 

HPC approves t-shirt marketing proposal 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI News Writer 
The Hall Presidents' Council (HPC)approved a proposal to allow the An Tostal Committee to market a shirt next year, with 66% of the profits going to HPC and 33% to An Tostal. 
Matt Bomberger, the 1992 An Tostal chairman, was present at Thursday night's HPC meeting to offer his proposal for a combined effort for the sale of a shirt,similar to The Shirt sold in September. 
According to Bomberger, ..An Tostal's funds have been deemed insufficient." He also said that the sale of a shirt is necessary to make An Tostal a success. 
With the sale of last year's shirt by the An Tostal Commit­tee, both An Tostal and HPC made significant profits. The Shirt was sold to 72% of the student body and made over $40,000. 
Based on The Shirt's success, 10,200 were sold, Bomberger decided to run a similar fundraiser for this fall. He pro­posed to HPC, who also was planning on a t-shirt fundraiser, that An Tostal would market a shirt and offer a third of the profits to HPC, who would then market their own shirt later in the fall. 

'"With this proposal, you (HPC) get both the cut from An Tostal's sales plus your own t­shirt sales," said Bomberger. 
HPC members countered that because money raised for the dorms is more important than money for An Tostal, the HPC should receive a majority of the profits. 
According to Bomberger, profits from a shirt would go towards bringing a national band to Notre Dame for An Tostal 1992. But HPC members questioned where the $10,000 raised for this year's An Tostal was spent. 
The meeting concluded with a vote by HPC members ~n one of three proposals. In a unani­mous vote, HPC decided to let the An Tostal Committee mar­ket one shirt for the entire sea­son which will be sold for ten dollars, 66% of the profits going to HPC and 33% to An Tostal. 
The proposals rejected were the original proposal by Bomberger and another which would have required An Tostal to market its shirt only after HPC finished selling theirs. 
The Observer/Joe Fabbre 

Proposing a service requirement 
Rob Pasin and Toney Erley are shown here at the Board of Trustees where a report "Service/Social Awareness at Notre Dame" was presented to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board. 

Pope 
continued from page 1 
the firm's most valuable asset ­to be humiliated and their dig­nity offended," the letter said. 
According to Williams, the letter is discussing situations such as hostile takeovers where 
•the state needs to intervene," to protect the rights of the workers. 
Williams believes that the practice of hostile takeovers, or leveraged buyouts, should be reviewed by Congress to make sure that the welfare of the employees is not violated by the stockholders who would benefit from the takeovers. 
The letter discusses the fail­ure of the Marxist system in Eastern Europe and elsewhere, 


Trustees 
continued from page 1 
commitment to service should 
also be demonstrated in the 
curriculum. 
There is a potential for Notre 
Dame to become "a bubble" 
that shelters its students from 
the outside world, concluded 
one committee member. "It's 
important for the University to 
say, 'We want to expose you to 
life.'" 
The service requirement 
would be a way for the Univer­
sity to do this, she said. 
A follow-up report on the 
topic will be completed and 
presented to the Board next 
year. 
American Red Cross 

as well as John Paul II's fear that "radical capitalistic ideol­ogy" could spread in the areas that are now rejecting commu­nism. 
Williams translated this as a fear by the pope that •the kind of capitalism we had here (in the U.S.) 100 years ago," with 80-hour weeks and child labor, "could go to East Germany or the Soviet Union." 
The letter also addressed the issues of developing Third World countries, saying that developing nations need to be given '"realistic opportunities to promote development, an effort which also involves sacrificing the positions of income and of power enjoyed by the more de­veloped economies." 
According to Williams, the letter is saying that industrial­ized countries such as the U.S. should forgive developing na­tions' debts so that the Third World countries can "have a shot at developing products for market." 
This should be done, Williams said, even if it means that some people in the U.S. will lose money in the short term. "The lifestyle of the U.S. is so high, that you need to think if you need that new stereo every other year or two cars," he said. 
Williams said that the en­cyclical would change the way he teaches business ethics. In the past, he said, "I have been leery" of using Church writings in his classes, because of what he called "a strong anti-busi­ness bias," he found in many of them. "They assume that busi­ness is bad to start with." 
However, he said he will in­corporate this letter into his teaching. 

in Siegfried 
Convenient Student Living 

we·re just minutes from Notre Dame. University Park Mall, the toll road and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community with spacious, well-kept grounds has a lot of appeal to the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­gency maintenance service ... and we have an activities program that includes free aerobics classes, social f<Jnctions, team sports and much, much more. If you're looking for the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we'll show you comfortable, affordable apartment living! 
Efficiencies from $270 -featuring ­1-Bedrooms from $285 + P;anned Activities Program 2-Bedrooms from $345 + Beautiful Clubhouse & Pool 
+ Air Conditioning + Cable TV Available 
• Disposal + Laund)' Rooms272-1880 • Basketball Coun 
+ Picnic Tabies &. Gri!ls 
Office Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9-7, + Volleyball Court + Gazebo Sat. 10-4 and Sun. 12-4 + 24-Hour Emerljency Maintenance Service 
k about the Hickory Village Summer Breeze .. . asy and economical way to keep your apartment ~hrough the summer and still go home. 
ftlCKORlJ ~ VlLLA~E 
Conveniently located on Hickory Road, just north or Edison Road 
+ 
page 5

Friday, May 3, 1991 The Observer 

Cheer 
continued from page 1 
year and last year, the students said. 
The students said they could not understand how incidents like this could happen since in both situations judges had pro­fessed that the candidates who did not make the squad had re­ceived extremely high scoresSome of the students interviewed attributed discrepancies in scoring to the fact Majerek's score counts double in the decision-making process. However, each of the candidates said they were aware of this fact before they even began try-outsMajerek defended her position by saying that she does not always know who has made the squad until the scores are tallied. "After the first cuts I am always surprised when some girls don't make it." 
There were no first-cuts for male cheerleaders because 
Who is this chump you ask me I beg you OLD Jdo tell! Step Back and I'll spin a yam Ana no swampland shall I sell. 
Well he calls himself OLE T, And his ego's out o' whack. He thinksbe's God's gift to all­Most surely he's smol(in" crack. 
He's quite the ornery sort, And you know what to expect: Copious amounts o' bile Minus all sense o' respect. 
Tim Rogers ain't fully bad, He has some &ood qualities: He's kind to h1s love Christine, Plus he taps twice when he pees. 
Well, its time to end this rhyme 'Cause I'm, out o' dinero OLD T have a happy 21st­
{,.

\.:~~:{a 

fewer tried out.Candidates wishing to examine their scores or compare themselves to other candidates have been refused, according to a number of students. 
"She will not let them see their (score)cards," said one student. "No totals and defi­nitely no breakdowns." 
He said that Majerek told the candidates that "there was no sense in sitting down and look­ing at a bunch of numbers." 
Majerek admitted that no scores have been released, but said that she is more than will­ing to discuss the tryouts with anyone who approaches her. She said that a few girls who did not make the squad did in fact meet with her and they talked about areas that the girls could improve in subsequent tryouts. 
Student concern goes beyond the scoring process, as some claimed that many of the deci­sions about who would make the squad were made before the try-outs even started. 
"During practice you could 
LOVE, OLE J • YOUR TRUE HERO. SEE YA' SOON I 






Look Here! 
see the weeding out process," said one student. "Before things got started, I knew who would make it." 
Another student said that although the favoritism was "more obvious" this year, it has existed in the past. She ex­plained that her freshman year she was warned by a fellow student not to even bother try­ing out. 
Majerek said that rather than making early judgements about the candidates, she works hard to always keep an open-mind. She said that there can often be a noticeable difference between candidates' performances dur­ing the clinic and during the tryout, so remaining impartial throughout the entire process is important. 
Sometimes there are individ­uals who don't stand out during the practices but who are "so energetic that they really catch your eye" when they perform in front of a crowd, according to Majerek. There were "a few in­stances" like that this year, she said. 
Besides the tryout, there is an interview that helps the judges make their decision. The inter­views are conducted after the first cuts are made. 
The ten to fifteen minute in­terview is an opportunity for the candidates to discuss game situations, classes, and possible conflicts, according to outgoing captain Don Gomez. The inter­view gives the judges a chance to see how candidates may re­
.. 
unltad\YaW 

It bringsoutthe best
in all Of LJS: 

You c8~ get the "Best Pizza in Town" at "their'' price. 
For a limited time if you use a "Domino's" coupon you can get our pizza at their price. Order now, this offer is too good to last. 
Not valid with any other offer. Valid for dine in, carry out and delivery. For delivery on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Campus call 232-2499 
act under various pressures, he said. 
"(Notre Dame cheerleaders} have to interact with a lot of different people. They have to represent Notre Dame well in all aspects," Gomez said. 

In spite of the point value at­tached to the interview, some students do not feel that it has enough weight to unbalance the rest of the tryout. 
One student said that the since the interview takes place after first cuts, it cannot explain why some very talented people did not make it past the first night. 
Another individual expressed his feeling that this year's try­outs were heavily influenced by a number of quotas imposed upon the decision-making pro­cess. 
The squad may have no less than one cheerleader from Saint Mary's and no more than two, according to Majerek. Although there is no quota for minorities, Majerek noted that "Notre Dame feels very strongly in equal representation (on the squad)." 
In spite of the complaints re­ceived in the first few weeks after the decisions were made, Majerek said she was pleased with the tryouts and with the new new squad. 
"The kids are all very talented and will be excellent represen­tatives of the University. The proved ·this at the Blue and Gold Game," she said. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSG:IATION MEMORIAL PRCI;RAM~ 

~ ~ 
(fAmerican HeartAssociation 
Dorm theft suspects are found 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame Security has two suspects in the outbreak of thefts from dorm rooms this spring, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director. 
The suspects were spotted Thursday in Flanner, Morrissey, and St. Edward's Halls. Thefts were reported in each of these dorms. 
On Sunday, they were seen tresspassing in Cavanaugh and Badin. 
Both suspects are Black males, he said. One is 17-19 years old, 6'1" to 6'3" tall and weighing between 170-190 pounds. He has short hair ex­cept for a patch of longer hair in the shape of a rectangle on the back of his head. 
This suspect was spotted wearing a black Los Angeles Raiders cap, a black jacket and shirt, and jeans. 
The second suspect is betwen the ages of 16 and 17 and ap­proximately 5'6" to 5'8" tall. He has a medium build and short hair, Hurley said. 

This suspect wears a large gold hoop earring. He too was seen wearing a Raiders cap and dark clothing, according to Hurley. 
Security believes these young men are responsible for the various thefts around campus this spring. 
The thefts have all occurred in unlocked rooms and most are during the daytime, Hurley said. 



~~ C~£r)T \YALL 

,~CH~~~~f!.!~!!~"~'~~.~~\~!2UNGE 
~/MoTHER!S DAY $895­
SPECIAL All-You-Can-Eat HALF PRICE 
-3 DAYS ONLYl 

.---...:;;.~:.:.::::=..=-::~,;,.,;;;,; Sua. May 12, 11:30....-5 
p.m. Moa. May 13, 5 p.m.-9 p.m. Tla. M.y 14,5 p.m.-9 p.m. 
(Other m«ru Items 11$0 •vailable} 


: The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. . . . : 
•: an essential ingredient in your •: : career planning strategy : 
•• • Get a great sutnmer job or work during breaks in corporate •••• Chicago. •••• • Bridge the gap between school and first time career placement. •••• • Experience the wide variety of corporate environments in •• : Chicago. : : • Receive skill development for automated corporate environments. :•• • Receive career counseling. •• : • Participate in competitive employee benefit and bonus program. : 




i• ~~!J!~! • i. 
• -= The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. • Chicago •312-372-4500 • 
•....................................................................................•
~ 

The Observer 

page 6 Friday, May 3, 1991 
Habitat for Humanity aids the homeless 
By CHRISTINE WALSH News Writer 
In the 15 years since its in­ception, Habitat for Humanity has built over 10,000 homes for the poor and homeless in 48 states, according to Miller Fuller, co-founder of Habitat for Humanity, a "Christian or­ganization" which utilizes pri­vate funds and volunteers to build houses in the effort to eradicate poverty. 
The goal of Habitat for Hu­manity is "to raise money and awareness, and to get volun­teers involved in the struggle to eliminate poverty, hunger and homelessness," said Fuller. 
Habitat for Humanity was founded by Fuller and his wife Linda as an "overtly Christian program." Fuller and members of Habitat "make no apologies for looking to God for. . . guid­ance." Fuller, a lawyer from Alabama, said that he and his wife were called by God to "bring the Good News," work that is both "exhausting and rewarding." 
Currently, Habitat builds houses in every state, except for Wyoming and Alaska as well as 
internationally. There are 169 chapters of Habitat for Humanity on college campuses throughout the country, includ­ing Notre Dame. The Notre Dame chapter is part of the St. Joseph County Habitat for Hu­manity affiliation. 
The Notre Dame chapter was institu.ted five years ago. This year, two homes were built, thanks to the efforts of approx­imately 30 Notre Dame stu­dents, and one more home is expected to be built this sum­mer, according to Paula Thompson, president of the Notre Dame chapter of Habitat for Humanity. 
Habitat built over 4,000 homes last year alone-10-12 homes per day. While it has taken Habitat 15 years to build their first 10,000 homes, the program has grown so broad that Fuller said he expects an­other 10,000 homes to be built in the next two years. Twenty­four cities in Indiana have Habitat for Humanity affilia­tions. 
Former President Jimmy Carter and his wife Rosalynn have been heavily involved in the Habitat projects since 1984, through what Fuller has called 'Jimmy Carter Work Projects,' in which the former president plays an active role. 
The road to success was not always an easy one, said Fuller. "We can get tired; things hap­pen... We get discouraged," Fuller said. "There is always the temptation to see a problem and just 'form a committee'... and then not do anything ... but with God we forge ahead." 
"Jt's difficult dealing with ap­athy... It's discouraging, and makes us the most exhausted of all... It's rejection," said Fuller. "There will be those who respond: 'I will go to (help) that neighborhood.' We are called to change the thorn bush to the cyprus... be the bearers of Good News." 
The Fullers began building homes in southern Georgia as "an expression of Christian faith... but even doing work in that small area turned out to be a very large undertaking," Fuller said. 
When people asked the Fullers where they would find the money to carry out their work, Fuller said, "We would get the money from God." He added, "We looked about and saw that a lot of folks had 'God's money,' and we had to find a way to extract that... by the power of God almighty, we are going to eliminate poverty in our county." 
Fuller said that donations of supplies and money can come from a wide array of sources. "Americans will support any­thing you take pictures of... so, we went out and took pictures of the work we were doing and circulated them," Fuller said. "We challenge people in the community to respond, to send money." 
But gradually, the Habitat for Humanity program has grown. "As we are faithful, diligent­the joy comes. God is faithful to reward those who are diligent," said Fuller. 
While Habitat for Humanity is a decidedly Christian organi­zation, Fuller says his group welcomes people of all faiths who wish to work together for a common goal. "We see our­selves as servants of the Church... like the University of Notre Dame," said Fuller. "We believe in the 'theology of the hammer.'" 
An example of this theology, Fuller offered the example of how Habitat had gained the co., operation of 86 different churches in Charlotte, N.C., and was able to build 14 homes in five days. "We started on Mon­day, and had the families mov­ing in by Friday," Fuller said. "Habitat brings an incredible array of people together... Habitat doesn't exclude any­one." 
"The problem (poverty) that confronts us is a totally solvable thing," said Fuller. He said the key to solving the problem of poverty is making the idea of poverty unacceptable. "Smoking has become socially unacceptable. . . the challenge we have is to make poverty, poverty housing and homeless­ness unacceptable, so that we 

BLESS 

t 1\LotOfCluck (
HER 
HEART! 
Diersheika is 



~ Fo TheBuck. 
without her 

Charbroiled Chicken 
roommates 

A hondt>~~. charbroiled hrt·;N ..,._,,,,,..,., with sau((: and rice ur poraw 
on her 21st! 
Mexican Chicken
HATE IT, 
A charbroiled. txmeless breast 
topped wnh onion~. tomatoe~.
PITY! 
chedd~r. sals~. With nee or potJtll. 
IP11rty o~m. J.I>.m&ei 

Hawaiian Chicken 
• 

A charbroiled, boneless breast toppeu •
Love, Tasty Tommy, 

with grilled pineapple. w~h rice. ~ ~:1 
Brenda, Marie, and Kerry 

CbiekenTenders ,, ;:, ~~ , Boneless breast fillet~. fried {;z t\ /. 
The Women ofSiegfried Hall *StarlingAI gold~:;;~~"""t't!/_/-­Thank l(athy Zelenock 
$4.99 Chkken* ~~---~;,;~..."./;,7\._,•.
for all she has done A boneless, charbroiled // ~ "' 
chicken breast. past 2 years to help .-\vailablt> at panicipating locuion~. A dieter's delight. f/,f( H \ \'·'-. \ 
The Observer/Joe Fabbre Millard Fuller addressed the Notre Dame community last night to educate all present about Habitat for Humanity, an organization dedicated to building houses to eradicate poverty. 
will do whatever is necessary to solve the problem." 
Certain events have hftlped fo­cus national attention on Habi­tat. For example, Habitat built a house in Nashville in just six 


BRYAN MILLER (AKA: "CHOPS'1
hours. Fuller and his wife walked from Georgia to Indi­

CHARGED WITH::
anapolis for publicity. This year, in honor of Habitat's fifteenth 

IMPERSONATING A MUSICIAN,
anniversary, the program is 
ASSAULT WITH A BLUNT INSTRUMENT
holding a "blitz-build," in which houses will be built in all 50 
YOU Be the Jud~e.
states. This summer in Charlotte, a house will be built 
TONIGHT , 7:00, KOONS BAND BLDG
and later occupied entirely by women. 
FREEFREEFREEFREEFREEFREE 
As a last means of raising awareness, Fuller joked, "If you don't have a Habitat bumper­sticker on your car, you are liv­ing in sin." 
Fuller said the best way to eliminate poverty is to: "Get the 
f . " •
word out-educate, inform, in­·------­
spire." 


Pnces may vary

make Siegfried the 
ChitkenStirFry

best dorm on 
Mann~led tm·asl stnps sauteed w1th vegetables. With lenyaki s~uce and ricr 
campus.·. Best of L.uck in the Future! 

SQON~YS. 
•
We'll Miss You! 
=x~; Sou;~::~:~~~~:nd.~ (
Love · Sie fried I 
\ 
-------~ ----~"""'-­
-
f \ ~\ ""-.. 

Dinners include 


=~ i 


--------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer

Friday, May 3, 1991 page 7 
Research must not interfer with undergrads education 
By MONICA YANT News Editor 
The undergraduate experi­ence must not be sacrificed as Notre Dame moves toward be­coming a national research in­stitution, according to Alison Cocks, presenter of a Student Government Board of Trustees report on teaching and research at the University. 
"The new focus on research seems to have pushed under­graduate education by the way­side," said Cocks, the 1990-91 editor in chief of The Observer. 
A trustee agreed with Cocks, saying "We've gotten to a place where growing pains are be­ginning to hit us." 
The report, "Teaching and Research at Notre Dame: The Critical Juncture," was pre­sented Thursday to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees. This was a prelim­inary report, as the committee concluded that "the complexity 

Attention Buffalo Club 
The Buffalo Club Bus will be loading Thursday, May 9th and Friday, May lOth from 1 to 5 pm at Stepan Courts. Rochester people are welcome. Any questions call Matt x3498 or 
Dave x1424. 

SUMMEI~ SCHOOL... 
AlbUty Area Gay Youth Group (518) 462-<i138 
Albuqu~rqu~ Area One-In-Ten 
-(6i~~~37t:;'
(505) 255-7288 N~WYof1{City AreatAr Is.Liilid.Ga and Lesabian Youth 

Anchorag~ Area ... g ·• y 
Gay and Lesbian Teens (907) 562-5307 
Baltimore Ar~a Gay Youth of Baltimore (301) 837-5445 
Boston Area ·~·,···~ Gay and Lesbian HelpJ!!*''''"''""''$t} 
(617) 267-9001 . t 
Buffalo Area "-'Vfl""


~~~1 
Gay and Lesbian Yoi'iUi19f Buffa~~)] (716) 855.{)221 '''4llt'(<M:sdt? 
Chicago Area Metro-Help Youth Services (312) 929-5150 
Cincinnati Atta Gay/Lesbian Youth Outreach (513) 86H171 
OrvelUtd Area 
PRYSM (216) 522-1999, 781-<i7 

,«,~~i~' 
Rochest-:rArea]Dallas Area Alpha YOUth := :-~ ===· Dallas Gay Youth Grou·p 
(214) 701-3455 
Gay and Lesbian Young Adults (214)528-4233 
Hawaii Gay Teens Information 

Gay YoutlrAiliance 
(i!US}~ 
(619) 233-\)309 
~;~~~d1& At::4~)!


:;~~~f~ 

c;;~>~\['\:-lt ~,,,,;,~
41X~t~~~~t ~~~~\t..&#
Los'Ang~tr. Area ,,., 
Gay & Lesbian Community Services (213) 464-7400 
Madison Area Gay/Lesbian Youth of Madison (608) 246-4297 

Massachusetts Cape Area '~n: .,.~and li>lands Gay/Lesbian Youth Vem:'ont fW 

~!a11 'rl~f.::~~rr~/~
(41~)'265-8500' ,,,,... h ·Sexual Minoriry·YouthAs!l~artcc League (202) 232-7506 
Minneapolis/SL Paul Area Lesbian and Gay Youth Together (612) 224-3371 
Teenage Gays of St. Paul 
t516l 79M778 

Gay and Lesbian Youth of New York (212) 777-1800 
Hetrick Martin Institute (212) 633-8920 

Youth Environmental Services (516) 799-3203 
a~v 
Phoenix Are.-l" 
Arizona GajfYouth 
(602) 938-3932 
Portland, Maine Area 

Alliance of Gay and Lesbian Youth 
Box 5028 Stn A; Portland, ME 04101 
:~:;%.1~ 
Portland, Ore$9.!' Area 
(716) 442-2986 
Salt Lake City Area The Youth Group (801) 534-8821 
San Diego Area 
Seattle Area Youth Rap Group (206) 322-2873, 328-5996 
Tacoma Are;a 
Oasis 
(206) 591-6060 

of this issue warrants more time for a comprehensive re­port." 
A more in-depth, follow-up report on this topic will be pre­sented in February, 1992. 
The report focused on large class sizes as an example of how an increased emphasis on research has negatively affected teaching. The committee examined course sizes in each of the four colleges at the Uni­versity and found that large classes have affected testing, discussion, and have led to a diminishing frequency in writ­ing assignments in the upper levels. 
The committee discovered that worse problems with class size and shortages were felt in the College of Arts and Letters. 
The College's two largest de­partments, English and gov­ernment, each boast over 500 majors. "It is difficult for these departments to offer a satis­factory number of small teaching.
S ometliing to tliink 
The large class sizes in Engi­neering are primarily in the freshmen-year "weed-out" courses, said one student. After 
about tliis summer... 
To the left are listed the names and 
this the number of enmneerin 
phone numbers of Gay and Lesbian 



:JENN :McCARTER : From: Adorable:Princess :to : :!$~~~P~~9: w~-~ :~~~: ~~~mY. : · : 4 :2()th :B~day ·SCANDAL : : 
Love; Rob Dog 
students tends to decrease and 
class sizes tend to stabilize. 
The same situation is felt in 
Science, where introductory 
classes in chemistry and biology 
often number over 200. "In 
organic chemistry, it's abso­
lutely impossible to ask a ques­
tion," said one student. 
Similar problems with re­
search are incurred in the 
sciences, the students said. 
Most professors teach one class 
a semester, they said. But larger 
classes and fewer majors 
prevents problems from 
occurring due to a lighter 
teaching load. 
The report stressed that the comittment to research should not be used as an excuse for professors to decrease their teaching loads. Although much of the discussion centered on the negative merits of research, one member cautioned against pointing to research as the sole cause of the problems. "A re­search comittment is a greate thing to be able to blame," he said. 
Still, students claimed that professors have told them that the emphasis on research has just recently become "intensified" in the last year. One student who was discussing the issue with a professor even said he "felt guilty talking about it." 
Discussing possible solutions 
to the problems with class size, one trustee suggested putting a "gate" on majors which would limit the number of students in the department. However, a student expressed a feeling that such a limit would "be a con­tradiction of the ideal of a lib­eral arts education." 
"Part of a liberal arts educa­tion is being able to choose," she said. Putting a gate on de­partments would eliminate the opportunity for students to change colleges or majors. 
One of the trustees summed up the meeting by equating the situation with business. "Our course business is education, our customers are students," he. said. 
"If it is truly the situation that we are dealing with a dis­satisfied customer, we're deal­ing with the core of the issue. I'm dissatisfied with that." 

youth groups in 30 areaa around the country. If you're gay, lesbian, or bi­sexual, consider getting in touch with one of these groups over the summer, to learn a little more about yourself and homosexuality. 
Nearly every major city has a Gay and Lesbian Switchboard or Community Center listed in the white pages-give one of these a call if you don't see your area listed. Most have special discus­sion groups and activities for gay peo­ple under 22. Or, you can call your lo­cal college or university -just about every school has a gay and lesbian group which might have activities planned for over the summer. 
So have a good summer. And if you're gay, lesbian, or bisexual, do yourself a favor and find a group in your home area. 
r---------------, 
cut and paste logo here from previous advertisements 
the administration won't let us print it naw... 
L---------------J 
For more information, you 
can still call: Mike 237-0788 Carol 232-3330 
Michael237-1864 

Or write to us at: 
insert our name here 
P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

classes," the report reads. "Both are already popular ma­jors, in addition, students de­pend on their course offereings for elective classes and for classes to fulfill University re­quirements." 
The average government 
class size is 58 students, ac­
cording to the report, and one 
government major included in 

the report said regular writing 
assignments in the department 
are rare. 
Class size is also a problem in the English department, where professors note an even greater need for small classes. Although the average class size in the department is 28, the report said that 14 of the 29 300-level English classes have more than 40 students. 
One trustee asked what nega­tive effects were incurred from the larger class sizes. The stu­dents responded that discussion is impeded, personal contact with the professor is eliminated, and objective exams are used instead of essay tests which would better reflect the students' mastery of the mate­rial. 
A freshman said that the Uni­versity's claim of an average class size of 28 is "almost mis­leading" to students who come to Notre Dame only to find classes with 200 students. "They expect classes to be smaller." she said. 
In addition to the difficulties faced by majors who are closed out of their classes, the report said that non-majors trying to meet their University English requirement "find it almost im­possible to take the smaller, 400-level English courses and often cannot enroll in the ma­joity of the 300-level courses offered." 
The inavaibility of classes is not only due to the large num­ber of studen_ts trying to take them, the report said. Profes­sors are spending more of their 

time researching than teaching, 
the report said, leaving a 
smaller number of teachers to 
acommodate the same number 
of students. 
Cocks said that only one-third 
of all government professors 
and 40 percent of the English 
professors are teaching an un­
dergraduate course this 
semester. She added that the 
average teaching load for the 
University is two courses per 
semester. 
And when researching, some 
professors do not teach at all. 
Class shortage is a problem throughout the College that "encourages sophomores to de­clare majors early simply to fill their schedules," according to the report. "It also discourages students from taking courses outside their majors." 
The College itself is "losing its emphasis on broad, liberal-arts education" due to students' in­ability to take classes outside their major, the report con­cluded. 
In the College of Business Administration, class sizes have been increasing steadiliy in re­cent years, the report said, although the problem does not appear to be as serious as in Arts and Letters. The under­graduate classes have increased from 30 students to around 45­50 in recent years, according to the report. 
Business has also seen a rise in non-majors wanting to take lower-level introduction courses, which affects course availability and size. One possi­ble solution is "experimenting with larger, lecture based courses at lower levels so that upper level courses can be smaller." 
Faculty and administration in both the College of Business Administration and Science are in favor of the University's in­creased comittment to research, according to the report. But in each of the colleges, the report committee discovered that professors have concerns that the emphasis on research could lead to a deemphasis on 


.Ill ~-----~ _____.. ~~~ ---~~~--~-~ 

r 
~­
page 8 




Year of Women continues 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON 
News Writer 
The Year of Women has come 
to an end, but the members of 
the Year of Women Committee 
hope that the celebration of 
women will continue. 
The committee honored more 
than 1,000 women of Notre 
Dame at a luncheon yesterday 
to praise the contr~utions that 
women have made to the com­
munity and to the world. 
Eileen Kolman, dean of 
Freshman Year of Studies and a 
member of the Year of Women 
Committee, said the committee 
tried to create an awareness of 
the role of women in society. 
She said, "It is our hope that the Year of Women has had a consciousness raising effect on the whole University commu­nity. Roles and contributions of women are important issue in the global community and our American societv and at this University." 
w 
Father Edward Malloy, presi­dent of the University, said the purpose of the Year of Women was to call attention to the im­portance of women. "Our inten­tion all along was to highlight a dimension of our common life that was important to our well being," he said. 
Kolman said that the Year of 
Women set four goals last year 
and that they reached most of 
their goals. 
First, the committee wanted to spotlight the accomplish­ments of women. Kolman said the number and diversity of fe­male speakers has helped the committee meet this goal. She also praised the University for bestowing honorary degrees on nine females during this year's commencement. 
Kolman said the second goal of focusing on topics that are pertinent to women, such as bi­ological differences and balanc­ing career and family, was met by the number of lectures given on such topics. 
The Year of Women commit­tee also sought to improve rela­tions between males and fe­males at Notre Dame. 
Kolman said, "I am not sure that relationships have im­proved but there has been lively and open debate ... about gender relations and changing roles and expectations." 
Kolman also said the commit­tee sought to address the aspects of the Notre Dame en­vironment that are not inclusive or conducive to women. 
Malloy said that although there has been some progress in regards to the role of women at the University during the past 19 years, the question of how to help women become more prominent in the com­munity needs to be addressed. 
"We. have had sufficient time to absorb the reality and now we need to get to the task at hand.... There should be no distinction or judgement about levels of participation or about the significant role that you play here at Notre Dame," Malloy said. 
Although the University has 
adopted a policy allowing for 
gender-inclusive language, 
Kolman agreed with Malloy 
that changes still need to be 
made regarding the status of 
women at the University. "Some 
aspects of campus life still re­
flects the very long and strong 
male tradition," she said. 
The ObseNer 
Friday, May 3, 1991 


Minority Affairs holds conference 
By MICHELLE CLEMENTE 
programs each of us have de­cally prepared for college and • a shift in minority student
News Writer 

veloped to meet the non-aca­to assist faculty and staff in needs and new, successful pro­demic needs of these students," their adjustment to a more di­
grams created to meet these

Higher education profession­says Patricia Washington, di­verse student population. needs;als, secondary school adminis­rector of Minority, Interna­
This weekend, Washington • re-allocation of the sources trators, and the community ac­tional, and Non-Traditional said, the conference partici­within existing programs; tivists who work with minority Students (MINT). 
pants will go beyond the aca­• future demographic trends; adolescents will hold a Minority Originally the Office of Minor­
demic preparedness and ex­Affairs Conference this week­ity Affairs, Washington said, plore the future. end at Saint Mary's. were created to assist students The topics discussed will be: for the information gathering • and the creation of networks 
"The goal is to find out what of color who were not academi­• changes in demographics; and sharing. 
' 

a senior who aced the course over for pi::a. (I hi., is known as "Pizza Gratia Passa'' or Pizza for tht' )ake of Passing.) 
Pepperoni slices make ~oud page markers. · 
Economics is easier if vou\·c got a coupon. 
To reduce stress. kick back 
with a Domino's Pizza and 
Coca-Cola'! 
. THREE POINT TWO CHEESE 
4.99 PLAY ·S7.9!i --_~~~~~~-~$4_~0 ~ 
. ---. 
GET A LARGE PIZZA GET A LARGE PIZZA GET TWO SMALL : WITH ONE TOPPING WITH YOUR THREE CHEESE PIZZAS I FOR JUST $4.99 li!VORITE TOPPINGS .OR ONLY $4.00 : 
FOR ONLY $7.99 I 
• ; .·. . EXPIRES 6/I5/91 I EXPIRE'l6/I5/9I 1 "' EXPIRES 6/I5/91 : 
Yllodii~~.,..,.Nol•llodwCIIony-olle<sCuslo<no<pays-tax I Yoidatpar1~~~'"'"""$'~ollcr:~PTZ:s'C~oo 1 -~-=~~~..,v=.,":',:<:::;.oll~~ry~'=rz,oo I 
-~ """""c:-'_.,......,....,.~.O...c!r-.canyloulttan$20.00. where~ -~t:;":...,..'::c.~.J !XIali-... -~~b;';driYo<>arenolpenoilzodlorlali­
1 
L _____ ~~~~~=:-------L------------------~------------------~ 
Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 1835 South Bend Ave. 289-0033 816 Portage Ave. 
©1991 Domino's Pizza, lnc. 
------------·-­

-------~­
----------------------~ 

May 3, 1991 The Observer 
The ObserVer 
SUFR stages day-long sit-In in Registrar's office 


The Top Ten News Stories of 1990-91 

8 
"Blanco and Fiorenza win" 
The~rver 
-~ 8Jancc.'Ficrenzo win 



1.~ . 
··.:---~.:-. 
:· _·;:··.•·;.: ~".;-._:·;_.~;,;,<';::.,.: 
Vo\J ha~ to be i" ft to wm 500 l~aq: ci~i!ia."'t.'S Ch: 
'!:~..;_,~;--:x,;; .·&; ~
-~... Stl:.laSt A.~31:··;;
$-~::~ 
..... 
~. 01-....l'l<"o 
;:), . . ....,.......,_ 

February 14, 1991 

-~ --• • -• -... ----• .., • -----'"' '"' • • • '"' .. • • ... • .... .,_ 0. ·a .. ' 
2 
"Campus leaders react to war" 
The Observer 
GULF WAR BEGINS 

January 17, 1991 
5
"Demonstrators demand forum for minority issues" 
--'--····-·--···-­
The Observer 
Bush denounces brU1allnlatment ot POWs 
~Jt•A~~ 
January 22, 1991 

3 
"No more maids for 'pampered' ND students" 
------····----­
The Observer 


August 28, 1990 
6 
"S.U.D.S. asks comm­unity and businesses for support" 
--·--·----------­
The Observer 


March 22, 1991 

9 
"CLC votes to change dulac concerning sexual assault" 
The Observer 

;f16~tif;.. 
.__--... 
.; •, .~ ' . 7 
_... ~ ~ ..
~~-..'''f:·v 


December 11, 1990 
"ol.·-..-..~~.... -..... 
••, ..... ;-:•.--~-z::..,,••,_ ...... 
~~ --_.,.._.._~ oll:•N"-..._,_ 
..,,~::-q... ~·-·
.... 
,,.,.'"..•,.,,. "'' ............... ·<t-~· .. . 
?r;t;:;~?:-:-;: 

4 
"Peralez candidacy revoked after campaign violations" 
The Observer 

Pt-rotte-2 candl&ty re-.•¢ked ,ttof ~mpaig:n 11:io:tat1on$ 

March 27, 1991 
7 
"ND slips, SMC climbs in national report" 
The. Observer 

October 10, 1990 
10 
"Saint Mary's College awarded $250,000 grant" 
The Observer 


October 5, 1990 
1 
"SUFR stages 
day-long sit-in in 
Registrar's office" 
A group of 60 students staged a sit­in in Administration Building on April17 that would attract upwards of150 black, white, and Hispanic demonstrators calling for direct negotiations with Umversity President Father Edward Malloy on issues pertaining to cultural diversity. The almost 12-hour demonstration was marked by members of Students United for Respect (SUFR) conducting small­group discussion with Malloy and other administrators to reach a peaceful solution. The aemonstration was the culmination of three months of frustration by SUFR members who said the administration has failed to properly address their demands, issued January 21. 
April 18, 1991 

~ . 
I 
I 
I 
j 
1 
1 

't. 
\ 
'\ 



... • .. • • • a "' -• • . 
~ ~-----~~~~-----~--------------------------~~--------~------------------------~­

page 10 The Observer Friday, May 3, 1991 
000 The Copy Shop 000 ATTENTION BANDS: Top 10 Nicknames for 90-91 given Happy 21st JDII To all my Buddies...Cath,Kelley, LaFortune Student Center Tired of paying those monthly PA by the HBOC: Mary, Beth, Sara. Karen, Erin, 
Class 

OPEN ALL SUMMER!!!!!!! rental fees? Want to save some 10. Stands with a finger Don't worry, dude! Starting now, no Betsy, Becky, April, Candace, Erin, 
Cycling Good luck on the CPA I I ! your room toolTwists of life Lil Goose-Turns of Passion We made it, kiddo. I've missed U That's the news & we are outta here Now and have never stopped loving U.

The time has come 

Get your bun back here YESI
For me to go... All of Time cannot fill 

THE '91 ChEgsThe single timeless moment AnTostal '91 AnTostal '91Just as all of Heaven's waters 'Nuff saidCannot drown AnTostal '91The single thunderous tear FINALS FRENZV The weary flower weeps Just when you thought it was They're back and they're mad asWithin over..•.•THE DREAM LIVES ON II hell I The dew of the fading day... I must 
THE FIRE WORK SHOW 8 Daze done 5 Timez
I cannot rest THE FIRE WORK SHOWThis empty ocean set upon me 

THE FIRE WORK SHOW Larry Scanlon: 
Like a vise that grips without THE FIRE WORK SHOW Only 6 months and 1 weekCrushing until my birthday (which is when,Raging thoughts yield STEPAN CENTER 9 p.m. Friday Lar?!!). Oh, and by theway,HappyTo the 

RAIN: Stepan 9 p.m. Saturday 22nd Birthday! 
Whispers from my heart Love, AnnieBut they are louder still. .. 

The Fireworks Show will lastTne living time 
approximately 20 minutes and is a ••••••MIKE MADIGAN!*••••• 
Dies away 

rescheduled AnTostal event....due Thanks for being such an
As when the night expires 

to rain! We hope you enjoyed awesome softball coach!ll!l 
And 

AnTostall The first 300 will receive (Even if we only "Won· one
The waking flower is kissed 

an AnTostal souvenir. game.) We had a great time
By the sunlight of and we love you, YOU STUD!III

The new day ... 

AnTostal '91 Have a great summerl!!l!!ll!ll!!l!l Love, Siegfried B-TeamRemember: AnTostal '91 AnTostal '91
Perseverance forges the bearing of the most noble heart. I will miss you all dearly. 
Darren 
•ATTENTION JOE ZADROZNY• Did I get your anention? Just wanted to let you know that I'm very proud of my favorite Domer and brother ( I only have one brother though...HAIHAI). You've made it, so now it's time to go out into the REAL world !I Love Ya! 
Your 'Iii sis, 
Jill 
HEY SWEET-UMS Well, this is it. The last HELLO for the year. It's been the best year ever and I owe it all to you! Here's to a fun-filled summer with you, baby. I LOVE YOU DEEPLYI Luv, Megrissa 
SENIORS.... . SENIORS.... SENIORS 
Career & Placement Services will be set up in the Hesburgh library Concourse on TUESDAY, MAY 7TH and WEDNESDAY, MAY 8TH to collect our "Future Plans/Job Offer . ." forms that we sent to you earlier this spring. We will be in the concourse from 
10:00 -2:00 each day and will have plenty of blank forms. PLEASE.. BEFORE YOU GO... TELL US WHERE YOU'RE GOING II 
SENIORS... 
SENIORS...SENIORS.... 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
'''PUMP UP THE VOlUME' 
IS CAUSE fOR CELEBRATIONiro 
RAW AND ALIVE.~ SEXY.~ AUDACIOUS.® 
RAUNCHY.~ OUTRAGEOUS.~ 
ExHILARATING:" 
' SASSY, CJorildoa W, 'lilMOUI~ ...... ...., 
,,,.,usIIAaZII,Jor ..... ..,_ 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:30, 9:30 
----~------~---------~----­
see CLASS I page 22 


Please send me afree 1991 Summer Sessions Bulletin. 
D Undergraduate My area of interest is: D Graduate 
--~-~~~--~--~-~~-------~~-~-~~--~ 
money? 9. Rainbow Brite more of your birthdays will go by and everyone else I know and 
continued from 17 Beth Baby-PA FOR SALE I!!! B. Tall Lanky Dude without a celebration, kay? love.... Goodluck on your finals and Let's start PACKING!!! 6-channel SUNN 350W head with 2 7. The Purple Pie Man Have Fun! Have A Great Summer! I can't wait to get ouna cabinets call x1414 6. Chemistry Bitch Love, Love,
JILLJILLJIL LJI LLJILLJILLJILL here. Normal weather, 450/best offer 5. Fantasy Man Bethany JillHAPPY BIRTHDAY!! 

normal food, normal 4. God with a Stick LOVE DAD people, normal LIFE!!! Siobhan, 3. God with a Bandana HEY THUY I HAVE FUN IN Dave and Rob,JILLJILLJILLJILLJILLJILLJILL Boy, that first meal is Here's hoping you have lots of tun 2. God with a Brain FRANCE!!! GOOD LUCK next week on the 
going to be FABULOUS!!! (and lots of NEW experiences) in 1. God with HAIR QUE TES REVES SE REALISENTI CPA examll!!lll expect to see youMAUVE CHAIR! ONE YEAR OLD Debra France. Be sure to drink lots of Numbers 1-5, if you know who you EMYIEUANHI both out next Friday night after youAND IN GOOD CONDITION.ALSO 
French wine and lots of German are, we lust for your bodies!I!! JUDI get back.
HAVE MATCHING CARPET.WILL 

SHIP GREYHOUND, PREPAID OR beer. And remember, if you ever Love, Anne
TAKE BEST OFFER I CALL 3745 

COLLECT. BOXES PLUS forget the reason you wanted to Happy Graduation HEY"BABYCAKES"HARTNETT!I
NOW Ill 

LOCATIONS ON CAMPUS. leave the U.S. in the first place, just and FARMER BAUER: You've been a 
287-6041 think of us. Happy Summer to All Margaritaville is calling your terrific roomie, even if you can'tSunday, May 5 Love (and other full-contact sports). Love Amy riamel So get those cute spell exert! Thanks for putting up STANFORD FLAPJACK-OFF BASSIST STAYING FOR SUMMER THE NEWS DEPARTMENT Copy Center linte umbrellas out, because with me the past year-who elseJ.T. vs Jason NEEDED FOR ESTABLISHED it's time to celebrate! would have put up with theirNorth Dining Hall CAMPUS BAND. Couch and love seat for sale-real Bird, Klosterwoman, Foss, Tate, No elastic belts or roommate sleeping in their bed andMddle-left upper balcony CALL J.P. 271-0742 cheap. Ouija Board, CO's, fridges Megbut, Kristin, Lara, kamikazes for you! But never fear, making them walk around the entire THE TITLE IS ON THE LINEIIIIII 
and MUCH MUCH MORE for Bethany,Leah, Julie, Jo, and the we have plenty of blank tapes!! II stadium. See you at the Point! I WILL GIVE RIDES TO THE sale-real, real cheap. Call Jeff the rest of the PWites-HAPPY "21sr BABYCAKESI!I Love,JenMore quotes from the road AIRPORT FRI NOON THROUGH pennis or Tim the stud at 283-1873. Thanx for a great year. It's been Hugs to you! P.S. Cheap Boones rules! 
trips & road races of the NO Cycling 

SUNDAY FOR $4. CALL DIANA We're being put in jail for touching sweet. Next year will be even bener. Jody, Kath &Shan
Team: 234-4974 little boys, so everything must go. Foss-espero que tu tiene mucho Hey CLUELESS! Thanks for all the"I can't drive faster than 50... 

divertido en Espana proximo ano. To my psycho friends-thanks for late night talks, walks, and adviceIt starts shaking too much." 
REM ATIENTION SENIORS Bird-you know bananas don't deny the on the "A" situation. I'll miss"I'M IN SPACELANDI" I LOVE YOU!! You are my it! Thanx for putting up with me and laughs:l'dlovetoAreyoudoingChrist­ordering out and watching Wed.
"I'm goin' to the wrong school." 

everything. Thanks for the Days, the 111 buy your extra graduation my alarm dock. masinAprii? ...Oh, Tom, I'm so night T.V.-Ooogie! I hope you"Sister luck is screamin' out Knights, and the wonderful times in announcements E-Thanx for listening to me, the use funny...How would you eat Mike if don't get too confused withSOMEBODY ELSE'S name." 
between. I look forward to our of your computer, and working out he were an Oreo? ...Us two, or girls directions in Austria. Don't ravish"I can't find the right gear!" 
future together. By the way, I'll be If you have a few to spare, with me. Have fun in LA and in generai? ...Sea Oats!...Rich, those too many Austrian men, and don't"Darren Buck's not getting there to share it with you. Go call Matt X1650 remember "Yea or Nay" are breasts...Now look at that. trip over the cracks in the sidewalk! 
much help up front from those 

Wildcats! K and M-We'll have the best quad That's just silly ...SUAVEI...O'Sha... Love,Jen
Boilermakers. GO IRISH!" 

SSH DAB, TONY, JERRY & OJ, next year! Get excited! I'm going to miss you guys in P.S. Christian Laenner, you're my"I WANT A LOAFATOASTI!III!" 
B-Oo you have a clue Bird could London! hero! BAWBAR"BAR.BAWBAR" Thanks so much for borrow? Love,Love,LT 
Bar for sale great condition !II! everything! Tate-Seen any Chern books lately? Alix GUSSEY-I'll be left empty without call 288-0597 When are we going to Tippicanoe? our weekly Sunday night "Life Goes BAR.BAWBAR.BAR"BAR• I'm really going to miss To the rest-Have great summers! M. On" dates! Don't attend too manyTo all my friends at NDISMC you guys! ...is for mystery. Volumnes of outdoor co-ed slumber parties thisand in and around South Bend, MOVING TO THE TWIN CITIES? To all the guys at St. Ed's especially beautiful phrases and a field of summer! STEAMROLLER!
to "Big Mo" Schwartz and the 

I need a roommate for the summer. Love, those on 4th floor, roses...when will the sun shine on
rest of the Cyding Club, to Call Kim X2597 MC Thanx for making this year so your face? S.T.

everybody at the Huddle, the much fun! Thanx for putting up with Michelle "QUOTABLE" Roch­General Accounting office, Irish Music and Dancing me all year! Have great summers JOE ZADROZNY will be 22 on Ouite apologizing and have athe ROTC units, and with Seamaisfn at BUY MY LOFT-CHEAPI!I and keep in touch. July 6, 1991 , so wish him a Happy Birthday and a great especially AFROTC Det. 225: Club 23, Thursday May 9th includes bookshelves Love Always, Happy Birthday before you leave for summer! Watch out for those ItalianDEPARTURES must sell x3506 Marten the summer! Happy Early Birthday men, and remember not to bite theirAm I the Flying Dutchman PS-402 sorry about the rug I Joe! tongues!

Dying FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY 406 dino and the sink! Love,Living CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. JR, 420 if I had another weekend I'd hit DAD 

ROFFLER PHONE (219) 233-4957 SORBIE PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 

ROCCO'S STYl[ SHOP 
531 N. MICHIG~N ST. APPOINTMENTS OP '"'ALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR 





eSi,.....___ of a Great 
Head in the right direction and be part of the NYU Summer. Choose from over 1,000 courses taught by leaders in their fields-day or night. Live in the heart of Greenwich Village for as little as $100 per six-week session. You can cover alot of ground during two six-week sessions. Make the NYU Summer part of your year-round plan. 
For afree 1991 Summer Sessions Bulletin, call us today toll free at 
1·800·228-4NYU, ext. 614, 
or mail the coupon below. 
Session 1: 
May 20-June 28 
Session II: 
July 1-August 9 
New York University 25 West Fourth Street Room 633 New York, N.Y. 10012 NAME SOCIAL SECURITY NO. 
AOORF.S5 

cttY STATE ZIPC<n: ( 
QDay Q&ening 

New 'lin University is an affirmative actioo'equal 
SCOOOl CURRM!Y ATTENDING
opportunity institution. X86 

' . 

Viewpoint
Friday, May 3, 1991 page 11 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 {219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Edltor-l~hlef 

Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager •.... .Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor.••.••••......•••.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •.•.•••..Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager •••••••••••.Jay Colucci Accent Editor.•..•...•.••.•..... .John O'Brien Systems Manager ••.•••••......•.Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Dfrac:tor .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ••••..••.•.•Emily Willett Controller••..••..•••••••..••••Thomas Thomas 
-~-~---·-·--·------·=---:o---­

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Volunteer work very rewarding 
Dear Editor: own for our school to be able to teacher in Kenya made me see
Student tells long story 
Anyone thinking of doing vol­perform in the regional drama that by hard work and devotion, unteer work for a while after festival. What a thrill to see the one person can make a real graduating from Notre Dame? students do a good job in front difference in the lives of
of harassment and pain 
I'm sure there are lots of you of all the other schools and to individuals in need. My stu­who will choose to do this. But see their self confidence grow in dents were eager to learn and for those on the fence, here's a front of my eyes. In these ways when I worked with them and 
Dear Editor: tions that I felt as my own 
testimonial from one who did it. and in many others which I showed an interest, they
Elections, SUFR, and ha­friends escorted me out of 
I delayed medical school for a couldn't have anticipated when seemed to blossom with abun­
rassment-it has not been an meeting, a meeting about 
year in order to teach in Kenya. I left my home in Iowa, I was dant talents. I found the work I easy semester for me, but with something I believe in. 
I went with a program called forced to do new things and find was doing incredibly rewardingonly one week left I feel com­"Nicole," I was told by one WorldTeach. I will soon see the new talents. and was more at peace with pelled to tell my story to the member, "you are not an official class I would have joined in Along with this personal myself than ever before. 
Notre Dame community. In it, I member and you are white. 
medical school (if I hadn't gone growth came the establishment At graduation from Notre 
feel, is a very important mes­People do not trust you." To to Kenya) graduate. So I have of some great friendships. As Dame, then incoming President sage that needs to be heard. this day I believe in a great deal 
been asking myself lately-was the school was a boarding Fr. Malloy encouraged a groupAs most of you know, I ran for of SUFR's demands and I be­the year's delay worthwhile? school, most of the teachers of graduates to be ready to take Student Body President with lieve this university has great Did it help me or hurt me? Did lived on campus. I got to know risks. In going to Kenya, I took Eric Griggs last February. We strides to make in terms of cul­it change me? the other teachers at the school a risk. What I gave up was a were told ahead of time we tural diversity, but the sting of My immediate answer is that well, along with the Irish priest year of time-med school were crazy-" a woman and a being told by that member and my time in Kenya was the most who ran the mission next door would've been no harder or black will never win," especially feeling I was not trustworthy fulnlled and happy time I have and who had a refrigerator and easier had I gone straight from considering I was the first because of my color, especially had so far, for a number of a TV with VCR. Then there Notre Dame. What I gained is woman to ever run for Student considering my belief in a reasons. First, the year was a were the other American volun­hard to describe in words,Body President here. The elec­friendship with SUFR members, time of tremendous personal teers, many of whom I still keep although I've just tried. 
tion, for many reasons, was a still hurts. 
growth. I was thrust into a po­in touch with and visit. We To be fair, I have to say there complete success. Eric and I The most recent event that sition of responsibility, would visit each other on week­was a down side to the year in 
walked away happy, proud, and has occurred again is phone 
teaching high school freshman ends sometimes and then al­Africa. This was in comingwith 48% of the runoff vote. We harassment. Just like after the and sophomores their biology ways on American holidays like back to the U.S.A.. while on the 
had almost made a dream a election, I have received phone and physics. Having no teach­Thanksgiving and the Fourth of one hand I could appreciate myreality. calls, but this time the caller ing experience, I had to make July. family and friends all the more However, this would change calls me "white SUFR bitch." 
up for my lack of skill by hard There was a lot of exciting because of the time away, I had that very evening when a little Once again, I have become a work. All the books I brought places to go when the school a hard time switching gearspast midnight the calls victim of blatant racism. 
over with me gathered dust on vacation came around I was from life as a focused teacher in started-"You nigger loving Why share my story with the my table. able to climb Mr. Kilimanjaro in rural Kenya to life as a self­pussy, I am so glad you lost." I Notre Dame community? I feel I was the assistant track Tanzania and visit Zanzibar for centered student in the US. The hate writing that sentence, but it necessary because it is the coach and had the thrill of example. The thrill of the experience had changed me and there is no need-to candy coat perfect example of the igno­
seeing kids I had worked with adventures is still with I have had to come to terms the racism and sexism that rance and misunderstanding perform well in district wide me-thank goodness, and I with life in America. But is that 
harassed me on a regular basis that leads to all types of racism. 
competition. hope when I'm done with bad? I say 'Go for it!' 
for weeks. This is the very As a semester that has been full As drama coach I found the medical school I'll be able to do racism that naive people deny of all types of cultural diversity school had no plays in the some more travelling. Joe Mercha.nt 
even exists here. My only issues comes to a close, isn't it library and so had to write my Most important, my time as a Notre Dame Class of '87 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

crime-running for office and time to ask each other why 
following a dream with another there is so much hate? And 
student. why don't we ask the question 
Unfortunately my story does "Why?" more instead of 
not end here. I became jumping to conclusions and 
involved in conversations with stereotyping? Why can't we 
friends who were in SUFR and appreciate and respect each 
attended a few meetings. Two others diverse needs whatever 
weeks ago I was invited to a they may be? Curiosity, learn­
SUFR meeting a told it was to ing, friendship, inquiry, isn't. 
be very important. When I got that why we are all here? 
to the meeting, after sitting Nicole Farmer 
down, I was asked to leave. I Lyons Hall 
can't begin to explain the emo-May 1, 1991 
DOONESBURV 
SIR, I CAN'T 8MPHASIZ& We'Ve 60T TO 
IT eNOUGH -IA!t'V/3 GCJT 70 5HtFT 7He L&T'5 
R&OAIN CO!VT!<Ol-Of THe !1XUS1 NOW, HEAR 
PICTU/<55! 7H&NSCHI¥3 'eM! 
ORAIIJNUP
\ 

A F&W5U6­GfhTIONS... 
\ I 
\ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
GO:J(?.I IU
"t. ~AR:r 

START IAJORI<­
JWOTHeR 

IN6 7HG
WAR ... " 

fH.JN&S.
\ I 
QUOTE Of THE DAY 
'My existence led by confusion boats-mutiny from stern to bow. Ah, but I was so much older then, I'm younger than that now.' 
Bob Dylan 
... 


Viewpoint
page 12 Friday, May 3, 1991 
-------~~-~--------------------------------------------~----­
'Vietnam Syndrome' forces difficult questions 
Sometimes people say I have Iraqi desert. decent school system... But sufferers tend to be very a negative outlook, that I don't I'm trying to fight my cynical Brice Abel, O.S.B. then, they say I'm the sick one. idealistic; maybe too idealistic, I trust the American government inclinations here and not be too Guest Columnist Sometimes even the Observer don't know. But not only do we and those who have been critical. But my Vietnam carries an item that causes the have faith in America, we tend elected to lead it. I've been told Syndrome induced feelings get off welfare they could, Vietnam Syndrome to flare up believe that America is so great that I've become cynical and make me want to say Bush they're just lazy.' Please excuse in me. For example, on April that it has a responsibility to jaded. never believed that sanctions that caustic comment, I'm the 17th an AP article appeared rise above the standard of the 
Maybe so. I've tried to under­couldn't work, he just wanted to sick one, and that was just the entitled 'Media Challenge of rest of the world. And when it stand why I've become this play with our war toys, he just Vietnam Syndrome talking. War Coverage Restriction Fails.' doesn't we get an attack of way. It's true, I went to high wanted to kick some ass, he just Actually, I was doing alright My immediate Vietnam Vietnam Syndrome and become school while Nixon was still want to get re-elected in '92. with this story until I recalled Syndrome reaction to this was; quite critical. Vietnam president and I had a draft card (No one on this playground is that only a couple of weeks ago isn't it somewhat ironic that in Syndrome sufferers don't when they were still really going to call little Georgie a President Bush, the self pro­the process of fighting a war believe that this nation is weak drafting people. So I suppose wimp again!) Of course, most claimed "education president," ostensibly for the cause of or impotent. my problems could just be a of America doesn't feel this way, unveiled his education strategy. freedom we lost the freedom of result of the "Vietnam but they've been cured of the I try not to always assume that the press? What disturbs me In fact we tend to think that Syndrome." But why haven't I Vietnam Syndrome and they say whatever George Bush does is even more is that 90% of Mr. this nation is so great and so gotten any better along with the I'm the sick one. done for the benefit of the and Mrs. godfearin', flagwavin', strong that we could accomplish other 90% of Americans who wealthy at the expense of the biblethumpin', Dessert-Storm­anything we set our minds to. were miraculously cured of this Later in the same broadcast a poor-classical Vietnam supportin', cured-of Vietnam­We could have a great and dreaded disease? Relieved of story on school systems Syndrome symptoms. But you Syndrome-middle-America universal educational system, this calamity, they point to me throughout the United States see the president's strategy is to believe that the press should we could eliminate poverty, we and say I'm the sick one. reported that massive develop new "American not be allowed the freedom to could house the homeless, we 
It seems that I get the worst budgetary cutbacks were achievement tests." cover the reality of war-it could clean up our attacks of Vietnam Syndrome forcing the layoff of thousands Unfortunately he's not willing upset morale, you see. And environment, we could truly whenever I watch the nightly of teachers and the to lobby for, or approve, any they say I am the sick one? have a "new world order" news or read a newspaper. Am discontinuance of hundreds of money to educate students in without violence and we could I allergic to something in the programs. One school system the first place. In other words, There is a mistaken notion clean up our cities and heal news? Well let's see: in California simply shut down a we are going to develop a test about what the Vietnam those afflicted by drug abuse. 
On the evening of the 26th of month early-there was no to show how poorly educated Syndrome is. The powers that Vietnam Syndrome people April I was watching Jane more money to operate. we are-unless, you, or your be have made us V.S. suffers out believe that we could do all of Pauley (Tom Brokaw was on From the human interest an­parents, are wealthy enough to to be shell-shocked, aging this and more if, as a nation, we vacation or something} and it gle, there was a story of a single pay for a private education. hippies, who never really found really wanted it and we was reported that President mother in New York City who meaning in life after the great believed in our national ability Bush is in favor of continuing was attempting to get off of wel­If I wasn't suffering from the love-in of the 60's, and who to do it. the economic sanctions against fare. With financial-aid she Vietnam Syndrome I would can't hold a job unless it's We get very upset over flag Iraq. It was stated that he was able to leave her baby with realize that if we can't afford to weaving baskets, or selling waving and yellow ribbons thinks that sanctions will make her mother during the day and pay for education-well hand-made leather goods at celebrating the failure of war life so miserable that the people attend a state-run college. then-we can't afford to pay for mall arts and craft shows. (war is always a failure no of that country may yet rise up Unfortunately, with an increase education. But only last George Bush would have you matter who "wins"} when the and overthrow Saddam in tuition, precipitated by a de­Wednesday the headlines in the believe that those who suffer true potential for the greatness Hussein. Now is it just me and creased federal contribution to Chicago Tribune read U.S. from the Vietnam Syndrome of this nation is left untapped. an attack of the Vietnam states, and a cut in financial Chooses $73 Million Fighter. don't have any faith in America. Recently I was in a discussion Syndrome, or didn't George aid, this woman's educational We're looking at eventually Vietnam Syndrome victims are with two friends who don't suf­Bush spend a great deal of time opportunities ended. Since I buying 600 of these little portrayed as people who believe fer from the Vietnam Syndrome last December convincing the suffer from Vietnam Syndrome beauties, they are the most that this country is weak, impo­as I do. In response to my U.N., Congress, and the I'm likely to say something expensive fighter plane in his­tent, and couldn't fight it's way question, "What do we do about American public that economic sarcastic like, "I guess it's tory. naturally the Vietnam out of a paper bag or a banana people dying in the streets sanctions never work? Wasn't cheaper to keep her, her Syndrome kicks in over this republic. then?" one of them said that the reason that we feel so mother, and the baby on news item and I automatically The fact is, people who suffer "Nothing can be done." The good about the fact that we welfare.' And we need to main­respond with something like from the Vietnam Syndrome are other one said "You can't orchestrated the death of two­tain the middle-class myth that "Sure! I believe ya George when quite different from that eliminate poverty" And they hundred thousand people in the 'if these people really wanted to you tell us we can't afford a popular notion. Us V.S. say I'm the sick one. So be it. 

Let's learn from each other 
Dear Editor: in which we experience respect 
It has been said, you are what for human dignity. Upon en­you eat. The same can be true countering such situations, we for thoughts: you are what you can learn and interact with our 
Bengal Bouts responds to needs 
Dear Editor: are used to purchase food, that the results of the Bengal 
think. In other words, that fellow students with an in­
The already poverty stricken medication, and shelter to Mission Bouts far outweigh the which we concentrate on, we creased love and respect.
country of Bangladesh has been lessen the degree of suffering in minor injuries that sometimes become. Perhaps instead of It is important to work todealt another blow by nature. this country. occur. 
always looking at the negative eliminate injustice, but on anBesides the yearly floods that Unfortunately, the Bengal Notre Dame holds the yearly aspects of relations, we can individual level, we can all ac­devastate the country during Bouts are a controversial issue. Bengal Mission Bouts because, ~onsciously experience the posi­tively improve relations by ac­the summer monsoons, Each year there are many who as Napolitano once said, "The 
tive aspects. knowledging the importance of Bangladesh is suffering severely oppose the Bengal Bouts and strong fight that the weak may Specifically, what if we, all learning from all cultures and from a recent typhoon. The support the idea that they be be nourished." AI though the members of the Notre Dame realizing the good that can exist storm killed at least 1000 abolished. They argue that the money raised through the community, try looking in a di­among them. people, left millions homeless, Bengal Bouts are violent and Mission Bouts is not enough to rection it seems we've been and 5,000 fiShermen missing in result in many physical injuries. prevent the terrible conse­missing. Many cases of racism Kimberly Conrard and sexism do exist at Notre Mark Arulston 
the Bay of Bengal. Where will This argument creates a false quences of famine and flooding, 
Dame, but many cases of re­Off-campus
this country get help? How will image of what Bengal Bouts are we at Notre Dame can concen­spect also occur on this cam­Jonathan Jordan it recover? all about. trate our efforts and support 
pus. Perhaps everyone could Fisher Hall 
One source of aid comes from Through the competitive sport the worthwhile cause of the begin also looking for instances April 27, 1991
the Holy Cross missionaries. of boxing, students from Notre yearly Notre Dame Bengal Since 1853, the Holy Cross mis­Dame raise money for the Mission Bouts. It is the least sionaries have given their lives needs of Bangladesh. No seri­that we, the privileged, can do 
Volunteering at Logan
to helping this perennially im­ous injuries are sustained by to help the people of poverished nation. Through the the boxers because there are Bangladesh face the conse­origination of the Bengal strict rules for safety which are quences of the recent typhoon 
Center is encouraged 
Mission Bouts in 1931 by strongly enforced. Aren't the devastation. Dominic 'Nappy' Napolitano, few bloody noses that result 
Dear Editor: comes to giving love they areBangladesh has received in ex­from the boxers' efforts worth Christopher R. Balint Notre Dame/Saint Mary's "super-abled!" They help put cess of $3 50,000. The monies the lives that are saved or made 1990 Boxing Club Captain 
Council for the Retarded wishes the worries of your week in raised in Bengal Mission Bouts better by these bouts? I believe Off-campus to publicly thank all the volun­perspective and allow you to teers who have helped to make focus on the importance of the past year so enjoyable for building relationships, even
Students can donate to help needy 
the clients of Logan Center. with those who you might not The encouragement and love usually encounter. Having Dear EdHor: and appliances. people in the South Bend you have shown to these special Logan Center across the street Well it's that time of year Now, through the help of the community who could really individuals by giving of your from Notre Dame's campus 
time and yourself is very impor­provides an opportunity foragain. When the library and St. Vincent De Paul Society, use these items. That old tant to them. Good luck to the each of you to bring joy to an­computer labs are full and ex­students can choose to donate couch, toaster, or sweater leaders and all the volunteers other individual and to learnams and papers are as abun­these items as well as the could still do some good for for next year. the true meaning of acceptingdant as rain in South Bend. usual clothing items to people someone so check ad­We encourage all the mem­others for who they are, fromHowever, there is one worry who are in need of them. vertisements to see where you bers of the Notre Dame and people who do just that.
that students face at the end Convenient pickup spots make can donate soon. 
Saint Mary's community to take of the year that can now be the process for students as some time out of your schedules forgotten. No longer is it easy as throwing the old couch 
to get to know the clients of Sally Greene necessary for a student to out behind their dorm. This is William Clark Logan Center. While these ND/SMC Council for the worry where to store or a great chance to do Off-Campus people may appear physically Retarded dispose of unwanted furniture something worth while for May 1, 1991 or mentally disabled, when it May 1,1991 
----~~-----------------­
Viewpoint
Friday, May 3, 1991 page 13 
Scriptures used to prove that Christians can fight in wars 

"Can Christians ever partici­in this fallen world have the royal law in Scripture (Jas. life? Jesus satisfied the anger pate in war?"was the question always brought tragedy. The 2:8, Lk 10:27). The royal law of God over mankind for its
Bill Tracy 

asked by a contributing writer Bible is never utopian." says to do unto others as you transgressions against Him by
Guest Columnist 

to the Observer a couple of "Authentically biblical would want them to do unto going to the cross as a sinless months ago, while we were at morality, and not a non­you. lamb to shed his blood (1
submit to such authority, war with Iraq. I would like to Christian and romantic (Romans 13:1). We must keep So, let's ask the question: if Jn.2:2.) When a person present a view that God actu­counterfeit, demands that this command in mind before some people kidnapped you repents of his or her sins and ally intends for us to kill people have our prayers-but and abused you badly, and receives Jesus Christ into their
we make any decisions to others at certain times in war. not only our prayers. We all willfully disobey our nations were possibly going to kill you, heart through faith, they have That may sound radical, but grieve at any war, .... but in a leaders in the name of Christ. wouldn't you want somebody been born again, into the so is Jesus Christ. And when fallen world there are many While it is possible that a to do what was necessary to family of God (Acts 20:21, Jn. he returns, it will be as a things we grieve over but must government might command release you safely? Of course, 3:3, Jn. 1 :1 2) warrior, not as a lamb. Now nevertheless face .... One can us to do something that we we all probably would. If Jesus Christ's righteousness some may say that it is not ap­understand the romanticism of someone did put a rescue into which is perfect and sinless is
must not do as Christians,( as propriate to call Jesus a liberal theologians in these when the Roman authorities action, he or she would be imputed upon every person warrior. But let's investigate matters, since liberalism does forbade Paul from teaching effecting the royal law, and who makes that leap of faith • the Scriptures, which are our not agree with the biblical about Jesus, Acts 5:29) These pleasing God (He. 13:21). and trusts Christ as their source of knowledge about the stress on the fallen nature of instances are rare. God wants Some final verses I wanted to personal Savior (Ro. 5:19). 
ch. 15, God instructed King this world. his people to be good citizens share are I Chron 29:11, 15:8). Saul to thoroughly kill all the One can also understand the as well as good Christians., by which declares that the Lord So, in order to receive the Amalekite men, women, and gift of eternal life, one must
pacifism of the "peace telling us to be obedient to all is in charge of everything; children. And in Deuteronomy churches": they have always authorities.(He. 13:1,2) and, Proverbs 21:1, which repent of his or her sins, (Lk. ch. 20, God gives his people 13:3), tell God your sorry and
taken Christ's command to in­How, then, can a person be describes how God could instructions on how they ought dividuals to turn the other both a Christian and a soldier? prompt someone like mean it from your heart, and to wage war with a particular cheek and misguidedly There were soldiers in Jesus' President George Bush. But, ask Jesus to come into your 
enemy. heart to save you from helL
extended it to the state. They day, and we ought to see what before I close, I would like to Another commandment we ignore the God-given they were commanded to do. talk more about love. The Jesus will never turn you 
know very well is Jesus' man­away, no matter how little or
responsibility of the state to First, we see that John the Bible says that love is the date to love our enemies. Look protect its people and to stand Baptist taught that a soldier greatest and covers a great your sins-(for all have at what Francis Schaeffer, a sinned). (Ro. 6:23, Ro. 10: 10,
for justice in a fallen world ... ought to be content with his multitude of sins and is well-known and highly re­to refuse to do what I can for pay, (Luke 3: 14). He did not described in 1 Cor. 1 3.,Jas. Lk. 16:23, Jn. 6:37, Ro. 3:23). spected Christian thinker, has those under the power of say that a soldier ought to quit 5:20. The Bible says that we said on this subject.: " I am oppressors is nothing less than his job. Elsewhere, he tells the didn't first love God, but that Finally, the Bible says that all walking down the street and I a failure of Christian love. It is soldiers, ..Do violence to no He first loved us and sent his Scripture is inspired. It also come upon a big, burly man to refuse to love my neighbor man" ,(Lk. 3:14) 1 believe this only begotten Son to die on the says that every word is flaw­beating a tiny tot to death­as myself. means that the soldier ought cross for our sins, was buried, less, .and is true right from the beating this little girl-beating -The Bible is clear here: I am not to abuse his position nor and then was raised on the beginning. As a matter of fact beating her. I plead with him to love my neighbor as myself, execute his job with evil inten­third day. Many of you are our own Lord Jesus said while to stop. Suppose he refuses? in the manner needed, in a tions. Anyone, in any line of familiar with this, and as it re­talking with the Father, that What does love mean now? practical way, in the midst of work, is capable of doing lates to this viewpoint, let me His Father's word is truth. Love means that I stop him in the fallen world, at my wrong. We all ought to live our say that it is of the utmost And Jesus also instructs us to any way I can, incJuding hit­particular point of history, lives, whether as soldier, or importance, because it is the live not only on food, but by ting him. To me this is not only This is why I am not a pacifist. policeman, or lawyer, or gospel and by it we can be every word. We should read 
our
necessary for humanitarian Pacifism in this poor world in carpenter, as if we were freed from this hateful world Bibles everyday. God reasons: it is loyalty to Christ's which we live-this lost world­serving the Lord in everything and be with God forever.( I instructs us to study His Word. commands concerning means that we desert the we do. (Colossians 3:23,24) Cor. 15: 2,3-4) (I Jn. 4:19) (1 Don't forget to ask Jesus into Christian love in a fallen people who need our greatest To finish what I said, if you Jn. 5:3) your heart today if you never world. help." (Schaeffer, Bukovsky, look at Exodus 15:3, you will Have you ever felt have, go to church, and read What about that little girl? If Hitchcock. Who is For Peace find that it says: "The Lord is a rebellious? Or sinful? (it can your Bible. Have a nice day (2 I desert her to the bully, I have 1983.) warrior'. But while the soldier be the same thing, I Sa. 15:23) Tim 3:16, Pr. 30:5, Ps 119:160, Jn 17:17, Mt 4:4, 2 Tim. 2:15).
deserted the true meaning of I am also afraid that some of is called to fight, the business­Well, the Bible says you were Christian love, responsibility those who teach pacifism in man to buy and sell, we all born that way.(Ps. 51:5) The Don't delay asking Jesus into your heart. A person is at risk
to my neighbor. The world is the name of Christ are a little who are Christians are all Bible says the world hates an abnormal world. Because too eager to subvert the called to live a life of love God, but God, still loves the of eternal judgement as God's of the Fall, it is not what God authority of our nation's (Eph. 5: 2),and serve as world. (John 15: 18). God wrath remains on him who 
meant it to be. There are government. Rebelliousness is Christian soldiers in whatever loved the world so much that doesn't believe, which in the many things in this world not a Christian virtue.The line of work God calls us to he sent his Son to die, so that Greek, means one who which grieve us, but we must Bible teaches that government (Eph. 6:10-17) . As Schaeffer we may live (Jn. 3:16). You say "doesn't obey." so, in order to face them. We never have the has been established for our said, killing can be an act of that doesn't make sense, or obey Jesus, we must do as he luxury of acting in a merely world by God, and we as love, if the action is done with I've heard it before. How did says. Please do: (He. 9:27, Jn. utopian way. Utopian schemes Christians are commanded to a motive to follow Christ, and Christ's death give me eternal 3:36, Ja. 2:17). 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Exchange student had great experience at Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: one-year student last year how to deal with me. ment, with few international nificant step toward the inter­
Every year, about 300 stu­(under another program) . I Conversations didn't last long students, has been advanta­nationalization of Notre Dame. I dents from Notre Dame get the spent the whole school year at and were mostly about the geous to me in getting to know hope the number will grow. And opportunity to study abroad for Notre Dame and I am leaving weather and exams . Few peo­and make American friends. at the same time,l hope that I one year under the Foreign next month. It was not until ple asked me what I think or But still, it is so sad that these can help foreign people in Study Program. An exchange early September that I found feel. I had no place to fit in. nice people, except for the lucky Japan (another homogeneous program can offer a student there is only one exchange stu­All these things remind me of students who study abroad, world) with the difficult experi­social and cultural experiences dent other than myself and only my country, Japan. In that have few chances to know the ence of assimilation. and enhance one's viewpoints. about 150 international under­country, people are almost ho­outside world. Also, for the side that accepts graduate students. Most stu­mogeneous and a frequent criti­I think the fact that two of us Fumle Taketanl exchange students (in this case dents are white, Catholic, and cism is that we do not accept were accepted as exchange stu­Pasquerllla West Notre Dame and in another, have stayed at Notre Dame foreigners into the country very dents for the first time is a sig-April 26,1991 Japan), it is a great chance to since freshman year. easily. The general attitude is get to know other cultures. At frrst, I had a lot of difficul­that foreigners may stay in 
Then here is the question: ties in making friends. I was too Japan, but should remain How many foreign exchange shy. I lived off-campus by my­guests or outsiders. students did Notre Dame accept self. My English was not per­Now I have some good friends under this program last year? fect, of course. But more than and have learned that people at The answer is two, or more that, I felt that people were Notre Dame are very kind and accurately, one. scared of me. I guess they as­generous. I have chances to talk 
I am a Japanese student who sumed that I am a totally differ­about different cultures and was accepted as a non-degree, ent person and they didn't know values. In a sense, this environ­
-----------... . -.. .. .. ~~ .. ... .. ... ... .. .. ' •-... . .. . . . .. . .. 


,.....­
fl 
t! 
~! 


r 
!rd 

~ 
'{ 
'~ ~~lRil ~~ ~ 
} II 
} 11~ 
> 
,I • B 
I 
\ 
I 
.I 
•
' 

By PAIGE SMORON 
Ass1stant Accent Ed1tor 


eer buzzes are out; Vivarin trips are in. 
The Commons and The Linebacker are 
out; Decio and the Library are 
in. 

Pastels are out; ND sweat 
garments are in. 

Yes, it's that time of year again: Finals Week. It's a mag­ical time, filled with all sorts of scheduled events that are de­signed with you, the student, in mind, to make your college ex­perience memorable. It's kind of like Antostal (without the mud pits). 
For example, there are: 
•Tests. 

Ask your professors which 
exams you're eligible for, and which ones are right for you. Further information regarding time and place is available in back of your DART booklet. 
•Quiet Hours. 

The Administration, in coop­eration with your dorm author­ities, have thoughtfully pro­vided you with the opportunity for long periods of hushed in­trospection. Enjoy. 
•Loud Hours. 

Usually one a day. Make a special, concerted effort to get out there and do something ex­tremely loud from 11 p.m. to midnight (racquetball, maybe?). 
•Pancake Breakfasts. 
Sunday night from 11 to 12:30, Notre Dame Food Services is holding a pancake breakfast, featuring sausage patties and gleeful Dining Hall workers offering to quiz you. 
, 




symposium, convocation, and dedication of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Other events for the weekend include a Pomerim Musices Concert of Liturgical Music in Sacred Heart Church, the first in a series of three, and a formal opening ceremony ranging from an academic pro­cession, Liturgy, and Campus wide events, including 4 p.m. mass/supper. 
There are many events planned for the year ranging from academic convocations, exhibits, concerts, major litur­gies, symposia, building dedica­tions, and conferences. 
A Halloween dance, a mass of Thanksgiving, and a convo­cation are planned for October 31 alone. 
Some interesting projects of the Sesquicentennial Celebration include: 
•Invitation 
to President Bush to visit the campus during the Sesquicentennial; 

•A 
postcard featuring the historic Main Building, to be produced by the US Postal Service; 

•A 
new ND award for inter­national humanitarian service to be inaugurated; 


•Streakers. 

Potential nudity is an added incentive to dwelling on the second floor of the Library (in addition to the scintillating so­cial scehe, of course). Keep your eyes peeled for birth­marks. 
•Survival Care Packages. 
Depending on whether or not your mother loves you, you may receive a sampling of snack foods -and raisins. Lots of raisins. Trade with your friends. (Warning: no one wants the BeefJerky.) 
And, as with anything, Finals Week has its own etiquette. For example, in k earlier Antost siderate part remembered t• fore en terin~ buildings. 
Likewise, th~ finals festivi ti these tips in mi 

Happy 150 
By MARY MURPHY Accent Writer 
T 
he Sesquicen­tennial celebration is very important to Notre Dame, because Notre Dame has never before cele­brated its existence. 
At the University's tOOth an­niversary, the country was at war and administrators felt that a celebration was improper. Next year, Notre Dame will mark its anniversary with style, making up for lost time. 
Notre Dame will celebrate its Sesquicentennial from mid­September 1991 to the fall of 1992 with a series of events, programs and activities. 
The Celebration is not look­ing strictly inward, according to Associa te Provost Roger Schmitz, co-chairperson of the Sesquicentennial steering committee. It commemorates and celebrates the history not only of Notre Dame, but of higher learning in general, and it looks towards the future of higher institutions of research and learning in the 21st cen­tury. 
The Celebration will kick ofT on September 13, 1991 with a 
.~ 
' ·~ 
page 15 







age that says, "Personal hy­giene is secondary to good grades, dammit!" 

•Memorize some key 
phrases. 'Tm sooooo stressed." "Can I borrow your notes?" "Was there a syllabus for this 
course?" 
"NO. Mine are worse." (Note: Everyone's finals are worse than your own. You may have seven finals on the morrow, but Joe Anxiety has 11. Plus a 17­
_--o-~.. 

page paper, an oral presenta­tion, his senior thesis, and an architecture project involving the transportation of the Great Pyramid at Giza.) 
•Be seen. 
Studying in your room is a fi­nals faux-pas. Nobody likes a loner. Get out and join in the collective misery. The campus hotspot is no longer Theodore's-frequenting the Pit, the Oak Room, and Decio is where it's at. 
•Use those insulated mugs. 
Clutch yours at all times. If you're not a coffee drinker, keep the lid on and admit it to no one. You can achieve that same mahogany glossy film on your teeth with select tea vari­f eties. 
•Don't get confused. 
Try to remember that these are spring fmals, not winter fi­nals. There will be no, repeat, NO, campus-wide snowball 
example, in keeping with our •Eat right. the moment. for those in the with you. Spandex simply fight. And for God's sake, don't earlier Antostal analogy, con­Any artificial stimulus will do: know. are Pizza screams finals, plus it adds just wear that Santa hat around siderate participants always caffeine, nicotine, Chunky bars. Crunchabungas. But be fore­enough support for those who campus. Unless you're Chris remembered to hose down be­Cool Ranch Doritos, consumed warned: they"re not for every­study most effectively in con­Zorich. Chris Zorich can do fore entering distinguished in great quantities, are a one.) torted positions. And don't whatever he wants. buildings. wicked buzz. Stay away from squander this chance for cre­•If necessary, blow off your 
Likewise, those partaking of anything requiring nasal inser­•Dress accordingly. ative accessorization: sport exams in style. finals festivities should keep tion (i.e., Vicks Inhalers). Go with material that glasses, headphones, and bulky Nintendo, Nintendo, these tips in mind. (Insider tip: The munchies for breathes, material that works tomes to convey a fashion im-Nintendo! 
I50th for NO in '92 
nvocation, and •The construction of a Father Sorin had for the uni­alumni, and benefactors are the Hesburgh founding monument to be pro­versity in 1842 and what the being invited to participate in International posed as a follow-up of an ar­University aspires to be as it the sesquicentennial celebra­events for the chitecture competition; looks towards the 21st century. tion. de a Pomerim •Six spots featuring the Correlating to these words, "The key to the success of 
rt of Liturgical Sesquicentennial Year to be the Sesquicentennial Committee any party is involvement, and I I Heart Church, prepared for football and bas­has adopted five themes: hope that we can achieve the ies of three, and ketball telecasts; widest possible participation, " ing ceremony •Many new bookstore items •Notre Dame and the under­Malloy stated in the letter. 1 academic pro­to be offered, selections of standing of its past. The History of the University y, and Campus which will be offered to the •Notre Dame and Catholic Committee began planning the eluding 4 p.m. participants of the symposiums, Education in the United States. sesquicentennial before the ap­
etc. •Notre Dame and the life of pointment of a Sesquicentennial many events the mind. Committee by Provost Timothy e year ranging The conclusion of the cele­•Notre Dame and the creative O'Meara in November 1988. 
convocations, bration will center around the imagination. A complete calender of ·ts, major litur­dedication of the DeBartolo •Notre Dame and the social events will be published in the building dedica­building on October 9, 1992. and ethical issues of an inter­fall. ·ences. At the heart of these activi­dependent and technological The co-chairpersons of the 
dance, a mass ties is a celebration of the ideas world. Committee on the :. and a convo-of the University as it reaches a Sesquicentennial of the 1ed for October century and a half of excel­The five colleges of the University are Eileen Kolman, lence. These ideas are inquiry, University, Arts and Letters, associate Provost, and Roger ting projects of belief, and community. Science, Engineering, Law, and Schmitz, vice president and as­quicen tennial Inquiry reflects the Business Administration, will sociate provost. The co-chair­1de: University's commitment to the be asked to sponsor a persons of the Steering mind in its search for under­Sesquicentennial event that in­Committee are Eileen Kolman President Bush standing of the truth. ' volves their educational and and Roger Schmitz. The tpus during the Belief refers to Notre Dame's scholarly endeavors as fully as Chairperson of the University 1; pilgrimage of learning within a possible, according to and Community-wide celebra­featuring the Catholic tradition and adds University President Father tions is Richard Warner, C.S.C., Building, to be purpose to our search for Edward Malloy's and the chairperson of the the US Postal knowledge. Sesquicentennial Celebration Concluding Events is Nathan 
Community enables one to Letter of November 1989. Hatch. 
ward for inter­nourish both intellect and will. All campus units and organi­Members of these commit­litarian service Inquiry, belief, and commu­zations as well as the Notre tees include faculty, adminis­·d·t nity embody the vision that Dame faculty, students, staff, trators, and students. 

"I hate Catholics." 
"No, really. Of all the people in the world I might single out for extinction, Catholics top the list." 
These opening sentences of a column published in "The Daily Illini, • newspaper of University of Illinois, are very sad, not be­cause of the Catholic-bashing, but because the aspiring satirist who wrote them lacks wit. Nobody can insult Catholics as brilliantly as Catholics can insult themselves, as James Joyce proved when he wrote "Ulysses. • 
If the announcement of the formation of the church of ·our Lady of the Rabid Atheist Sodomites,• whose members will bash Catholics leaving Mass, is the high-water mark of wit on the Illini campus, then Papists can rest easy. We've not been made a laughing-stock in a college-humor piece worthy of the Harvard Lampoon. 
Students writing in the Observer have tried to tell us the ways in which they hate Catholics, and that is sad too. The religion which has turned these fellows into border-line apostates is going to haunt them all their lives. As dropouts, they will be Catholic dropouts. If they become athe­ists or agnostics, they will be Catholic atheists and Catholic agnostics. 
The unbaptised outsider has an advantage over the alienated Catholic trying to turn his back on the Church: the outsider doesn't have unwanted luggage weighing him down, and his ig­norance leaves him free not to believe anything. There are no doctrines or creeds he's trying 

-------------~ ---~----------~~~­
----~---­
Friday, May 3, 1991

page 16 The Observer 

Domers wanting to get the Church off their backs 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
a columnist described it in the London Times, after Graham Greene's death a few weeks ago, is ..full of bad Catholics in various degrees of sin and doubt, mostly repulsive, some. of them likeable in spite of it .. . That they feared to love God because they were sinners was part of the reason they were in Greeneland, part of the old Catholic neurosis of being a failure and knowing it.· 
I'm not sure how much longer Greeneland will hang on as a country of the soul in pain. Since it is purely metaphysical, it may, eventually, disappear, like the lost continent of Atlantis, and be heard from no more. Bad Catholics, suffering from guilt, may always feel their souls are on a wheel of fire. 
At Notre Dame, there seems to be less and less to feel guilty about; and it seems harder and harder to damn yourself. ("What must I do to be lost?") It almost seems that if you can endure hearing the music of the St. Louis Jesuits played over and over again at Mass, and then tie your fortitude in with a community-service project that you've committed several hours to each week, you should be on your way to becoming eligible to receive the Laetare medal. 
I feel like a jealous Christian for saying so, but you see, I've lived long enough to become part of yesterday's news, an outsider looking in. I can tell that I'm obsolete when I read in the London Times, "The old Catholic preoccupations of guilt and fear of sin seem to be slip­ping into the past, and with them, so is Greeneland. • 
Greeneland is all that is left, really, of the Church I joined as a teenage romantic, in love with the theology of the mystery of grace, and with the drama of redemption, measured out in absolutions that would restore health to my soul after mortal sin, so that I could go to Communion in a state of grace, and receive the Host tasting pale and papery and fragile like a snowflake on my tongue that sang the Saviour's glory. 
In those years when Greeneland was the only main­stream we had, and so we didn't know it was Greeneland, seedy with freaks who feared God--in those years, a half a lifetime ago, before Greene turned Greeneland into litera­ture, giving us a metaphor for the remnant of the Church that would survive the Renewal, a lad didn't drop out as a reli­gious rebel, unless he was James Joyce, restless in Ireland. 
I think, dear Domers, that if any of you are tempted, now or later, to divorce your Church, you should postpone the 
breakup until after you have helped someone you love deeply to accept the death of a child. 
Christ may enter a marriage, or a life, for the first time when a new-born infant is called back unexpectedly. Such a crisis can make you aware that the Everlasting Arms are there-­and have always been there-­for you to lean on for comfort. 
Is this mere sentimentality when you were hoping, perhaps, for wisdom? What else could you expect from a veteran Greenelander? Remember that Darby O'Gill and I never said we didn't love you. 

to shake loose from, because he has never been exposed to the­ology; there is no God he is for­saking; instead of having ideas about God in his mind, his ground of being is nada. He doesn't have to be afraid of ghosts from his Sunday school days coming back to haunt him, because he never attended a Sunday school from which the ghosts could come. 
But unless you wear a space helmet lined with lead for four years, you can't avoid being ex­posed to religion at Notre Dame. You can't miss hearing the God-talk, and you can't swear that it will not eventually catch up with you like preach­ing leaving you evangelized and limp with devotion. 
When you say you hate the beliefs of Catholics, you have a picture in your mind of what some of those beliefs are, be­cause you had to memorize them and write term papers on them, just to get a high grade in the course. As long as you live, certain words --like abso­lution, state of grace, Eucharist--will send signals to the brain which will leave you squirming, as Oliver Twist must have squirmed as an adult when he remembered asking for more gruel at the work­house. 
I used to make a project of visiting students living ofT cam­pus. I met some hard-core cyn­ics renting crashpads that were as cheerless as the restrooms at a truckstop. 
A few of the lads were honest enough to tell me that the only Mass they had ever attended as Notre Dame students was dur­ing their freshman orientation, when their parents were on deck to make them go. They presumed they would show up as graduating seniors for the Baccalaureate Mass, because their parents would again be in town, on their backs to attend. 
I've seen fire, and I've seen ice, as Frost says in his poem, and neither one left me hot or cold. Neither did these young resistance fighters, battling windmills, because their arms were too short to box with God. I described for them a hard­luck character I met very late one night in a New York sub­way station. He said, "Father, I'm a bad Catholic. But I figure it isn't the fish that catches the Fisherman. If the Fisherman wants me, He knows where I live.· 
The lads wanted to know what I thought of that idea. I said, "He's assuming that the mercy of God will always be there for Him. which I'm sure it 
will be.• Later, corning back 
from supper with heartburn 
caused by the spaghetti sauce, I 
had the interesting feeling that 
I'd been visiting Greeneland. 
Greeneland is the country of 
the soul in the novels of 
Graham Greene. Greeneland, as 


Take your heart to court. 
""'•
\ Or on a bike ride. 
'\
---=·'---~Or out for a jog. Whatever your sport, vigorous 

~­
exercise can help keep your heart healthy. 
ftAmerican HeartV Association 

Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Church 
Saturday, May 4th 5:00pm Fr. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. Sunday, May 5th 
10:00 am Fr. Michael Buckley, C.S.C. 
11:45 am Fr. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
LOUNGI RISIAUUNI 
211·3776 219-2722 
01 LMDIION 

----· ---• --... -----.---.... -·----·-----.. Z'" ... --..._ --------.. --................... ---...... -....... ---· -----·-­

Take off with low fares. 
10 °/o Off coupon 
• 
Unlimited Mileage on One-Way Rentals For quality, comfort, cost and 

• 
24-Hr. Emergency Road Service convenience, no other rental truck 

• 
Full Range of Truck Sizes can move you like a Hertz Penske 

• 
Clean, Smooth-Running Trucks truck. 

• 
Many Trucks With Auto Trans­mission and Air Conditioning 


Hertz
Best Best 
PEMSKE
Truck Deal 
TTuck Rental& Leasing
I 

4311 North Mayflower Rd. South Bend, IN 46628-9743 219-277-0144 2220 Toledo Road Elkhart, IN 46516-5538 219-293-0541 
THE WINNING TEAM: HERTZ PENSKE AND YOU. 
Not oil trucks available ot all locations. All local ond one-woy rentals subject to Hertz 
Penske stondard rental qualifications.© Hertz Penske Truck leosing, Inc. 1985. You pay for gas, taxes, tolls, collision daiTIOIJ• waiver, and parking ond driving violations. Drop it off atony portitipating Hertz Penske Truck Rentollocotion. 
• ''
.. ----... ---.... ----........ -..... 
Friday, May 3, 1991 The Observer page 17 
The Observer accepts dassnieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classified& 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per c:tlaracter per day, Including all spaces. 
II 
FREEDOM! MOVING OFF-CAMPUS??? 1 way plane tix. SHANNON KAY: Rent the best furnished houses, from SB to HOUSTON I miss you lots and I love you very
NOTICES 

WANTED prime locations, sec. systems, sand NEED FURNITURE ... CHEAP?? leaves May 1Oth much. Good luck on your tests. DadL-----------...J KUWAIT, SAUDI WORKERS V-ball, wash/dry. Call Greg 233-$80. or best offer 
••••••••••••••••••••••••Need 2

TYPING AVAILABLE NEEDED $35.00 &up per hour. Tax 9947. Turtle Creek residents are selling: 2 Theresa x4248 
287-4082 Free. Both skilled & unskilled. For couches (1 is a pull-out bed) a graduation tickets. info. Call615-n9-5505 Ext. K-541. Sublet apt for summer: 1 kitchen table, assorted chairs, IBM, COMMODORE, OR APPLE. Call Brian at 288-0597.
.....•..•............... 

Resumes....Professional quality bedroom; 800+ sq. ft.; washer insultated patio curtains, a desk, Cash paid for all makes of 272-5667. (Tom Williams) Used Dorm Size Refrigerator &dryer in apt.; pool; tennis and a new BBO grill. Computers and Software. Computer 
3.1 Cubic Foot courts; storage. CHEAP­Everything must go!Ill software for IBM and IBM •• BOSTON CLUB TRUCK•• $$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. In good working condition must rent. Call 2n-2597 compatible, Commodore or Apple, 
hours 1Q-5:30 everyday _ Call 258-1365 Call 272-8954 $2 each. WILL BE LOADING ON Pandora's Books 233-2342 TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE WESTERN ELECTRONICS THURSDAY, MAY 9 FROM corner of NO Ave. & Howard FULL TIME POSITION For Summer Lease cheapcheapcheapcheapcheap 1530 WESTERN AVE. 12:30 TO 3:00 BEHIND THE 
IMMEDIATE PLACEMENT Call Jeff at 1615 or 1612 287·7550 BOOKSTORE STUDENTS: RUNNING OUT OF Local sports computing company, 
TIME? which currently provides computer AVAIL GRAD. WEEKEND NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and NEED NEED NEED NEED NEED LASER QUALITY TERM support to Bed 'N Breakfast room. Mina. from INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. trade, gold, silver, diamonds, I need 2 graduation tickets. Please PAPERS/REPORTS. QUICK half the N.F.L. clubs, intends campus. Buying a car? Good rates. Call me jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's, help. Call Brian at 288-9147. 
TURNAROUND. to expand its programming/ Call277-7696 after 3. for a quote 9:30-6:00,289-1993. camcorders, cameras, air support group IMMEDIATELY. Offioe near campus. conditioners, microwaves, tools, Happy Birthday Joe Roberts. We MAIL BOXES Nintendo"s, computers. love you. 277-6245. Looking for applicants with a MOVE IN MAY 20 89 GEO Spectrum OZARK TRADING POST strong interest in sports as Turtle Creek Townhouae Great Gas Mileage-1530 WESTERN AVE. The Pittsburgh Club will be TYPING: Fast and Accurate! well as a familiarity with VAXNMS, for summer sublet 45/city 50/highway 287-7550 sponsoring a luggage truck Call Jannell: Days 255.0022; MSDOS, and/or Call283-1636 Still has factory warranty back to Pitt. The truck will Evenings 684-7507. Macintosh operationg environ­excellent buy, call Pat HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS load Friday, May 10. The 
ments, and FORTRAN and/or C ATTENTION 288-5678 SUMMER? Jet there with pickup times will be: THE PITISBURGH CLUB WILL programming Languages. SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the 11-12:30 at the Bookstore BE SPONSORING A LUGGAGE 2 bdr. aprt. Ten minutes to Couch and love seat for sale--real Midwest, $160 from the East Coast. 1-2:30 on Stepan Courts. TRUCK BACK TO PITI. The Send Resume To: campus, dose to downtown. cheap. Ouija Board, CO's, fridges (As reported in NY Times and Let's Prices are the same as last truck will load on Friday, Personnel Director $350 monthly rant includes and MUCH MUCH MORE for Go!) AIRHITCH (r) 212-864-2000 year and the truck will May 10. Pickups will be P.O. Box 4278 water & elec. Deposit required. sale--real, real cheap. Call Jeff the unload Sunday in Pitt. Times 
can 234-0119 after 6pm. pennis or Tim the stud at283-1873. I got it. will be available at loading. 
11 -12:30 at the Bookstore South Bend, IN 46634 We're being put in jail for touching Come. And be my baby. Any questions, call Chris at 
1 -2:30 on Stepan Courts little boys, so everything must go. 234-8817.
The truck will empty Sunday Sitter/ Family Companion in Pitt. Distribution times needed for the summer. Granger TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE • 
..................

SUMMER RENTAL Furnished, 2 Tired of paying high taxi fares? -LOST-·
will be given out at loading. area, three young bedrm, CHEAPIII Call Pete @1201 EXCELLENT LOFT FOR SALE Don't want to wait an hour for a taxi HELP! I lost my wallet
The prices will be the same children, live-in or out. as last year. call 2n-8380 for more 
or Tom @ 1403. -indudes bookshelves to arrive? at the Commons on Friday I'm sticking around 'til Sunday and Night. It's a tan color and has a lot
Any questions, call Chris at 234-information. Turtle Creek Twnhse. X3506 21 0 Morrissey can give rides to the of important stuff in there! If found,
8817 
...............•...

dirt cheap Jun -Aug airport/train/bus station the please call Maria at 284-5073 and 
Need Roomate call Dan 283-1248 weekend after finals for just $5. no questions will be asked.
ND/Smc NJ Students: Summer; Year For Sale: Call Rene at 277-9468 to reserve a
Club will run luggage truck home. $200.00 Mo. Furnished Summer Apt STORAGE TRUNK spot. ATIENTION ATIENTION
Loading at Stepan: Call Lena 2 Bed. Call273-1747 & NVA AEROBICS PARTICIPANTS! 
S-9 6:00-8:00 ~517 DRESSER SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $315 
5-10 12:30-2:30 Turtle Creek Aprt for summer. I CALL Diane-273-9469 each way on discounted scheduled If you received a survey,
?'s call Matt x1n7 WANTED: Need 1 or 2 (prefer 2) won't try and dazzle you with a big airlines to Europe from Chicago. PLEASE fill it out and return it
people to ocaJPY a Turtle Creek "CHEAPI!I!II. sign. Oh, I guess I SALE.SALE.SALE.SALE• Call (800) 325-2026. ASAPIIIII
Looking for a good use for that Apt for summer. More affordable just did. Chris 273-9355 One very comfortable double bed­THANK YOU! 
couch or other furniture in your than a townhouse. Call Jim or John less than a year old JUNIORS & SENIORS...
room after moving on? Forsake the x11n. 
STUDIO APARTMENTS Call Anne 288-0597 If you have typing skills, P.C.
profit and donate it to the Center for 112 MILE FROM CAMPUS SALE.SALE.SALE.SALE experience & if you are seeking a GORDO
the Homeless. Contact Greg $350.00/DAY PROCESSING Mitchem at 282-8700 to arrange PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL $250-285 permanent or temporary office scon pick-up. YOU. NO EXPERIENCE CALL 2888595 MUST SELL LOFT position in ChicaQo, call AnQela Ede GREG great cond. at Interviewing Consultants, Inc., 
NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242 SUMME AHOUSING elec. outlet & phone jack on 312-9n-4611. THANKS FOR A GREAT 
EXTENSION P-238214 -3 br home headboard! Name your price SEASON AND
LOST/FOUND 
-$153/moJperson+util. 284-4395 FOR ALL THE GOOD
ATIENTION SENIORS -furn washer-dryer Ship it home NOW and avoid the TIMES ON AND OFF 
microwave THE FIELD !! !
Lost at Commons: Denim jacket I'll buy your extra graduation lines during finals! with car keys and driver's liscences announcements -5 min. from campus &stores YOU GUYS ARE TRULY of lisa Parker and Laura Parks in -safe neighborhood TICKETS THE COUNTRY HARVESTER THE BEST COACHES
I 

pocket. If found, please call 2806. If you have a few to spare, HELP ME 239-6714 AND THE CLASSIEST. 
MUST SELL LOFT
282-2377 (Rich)call Matt X1650 
great cond.

LOST: Royal blue BACK PACK Call for hours &U.P.S. info. SEE YOU NEXT YEAR II
GRAD. WEEKEND 
elec. outlet +phone

containing library books and a pair "Three (3) student rental homes 
jack on headboard I 

of purple glasses (I think) available. Call 232-5411 ore 234-U.P.S. U.P.S. U.P.S. LOVE,
Name your price 

Please call Alison at 2806. HELP I 0379 for more information" THE WEASELS
1 FOR RENT 284-4395
Finals are coming. Thanx SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE 3 to 4 bedroom furnished home for
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Help I Grandparents need two

LOST 4129: 3.5ft floppy disk 219-291-7153. rent. walking distance to campus. FOR SALE: JAY MAY, THE R.A. FROM HELLII 
2 grad. tix. Call Jon x1847
formatted for Mac's. Very $550.00 a month. 9 to 12 month Avoid paying high rentals. Buy my We'll miss everything you've done lease available. 234-7650 3 year old, dorm size FRIDGE for for us, especially the way you've 
important. Bill Campbell An attractive studio in lovely old $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
written on front. Call only $50 and own it for next year. expanded our vocabulary:
mansion near N.D. $300 now I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!!! 

Bill at X1584. Summer Sublet Call Scott at X1650. 'Wo die!!·
renting for summer &fall91 call Grandparents are coming from 

1 BDRM APT. FURN. "That's so POS!""
2879624 California-please help mel!

LOST: A BLACK REALISTIC Historical Building SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE "H.C.I!ft (that stands for "Holy Cow;
KRISTIN x273-9469

WALKMAN IN THE HUDDLE ON Close to ND. Safe. right?) TUES. 4-30 AT 12:00. IF FOUND $ 250mo. ~ude, I'm gonna chow!!· 
MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our Need graduation tickets. Am sucker.

Call 288-1467 Tracey or Joe Amy B & L, Moe and Mer-"Skroatll• (If you know it's 
CALL 283-3819. N.D. alumnae family for the most Have cash. Please call Rick at 
1 miss you guys a lot, misspelled, you also know why irs
REWARDII attractive, well-maintained 
x1121.

Summer Sublet and hope you're having fun. so)apartments on Chicago's North 
Help me pleaselll 1 BDRM. APT. FURN. Good luck on all your exams! Good luck!!
side! Hardwd ftoors, great closet I lost my keys somewhere on space, lndry facils., conveniently Historical Building See you soon! Your "Skroatsft in 1OA!!! 
Desperately need graduation
campus last weekend. They are on located to public transp and Close to N.D. Safe. -Your pal in Ireland. 
ticket~ulie X2950 

a blue NO key ring and have two shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. $250mo. JEN &BO, keys on it. One says room 328. We'd love to help you out! ADOPTION-HAPPILY MARRIED It has been quite the interesting 
If found, please call Kelley x4~54. PROFESSIONAL COUPLE WISH year, wouldn't you say. No, I Thank you. FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN, FOR SALE I NEED ONLY ONE TICKET FOR TO ADOPT ABABY TO LOVE. WE repeat, NO sheep jokes next year! 
GRADUATION-PLEASE HELP ARE SENSITIVE TO BIRTH Jen-learn how to drive stick. Bo-getAIR, PHONE, MICROWAVE, 
CALL BETHE 288.0597 

PARENT'S CONCERNS ABOUT the drill. Thanks for everything. 
UTILITIES PAID, 5 MIN. N. 

Call288-1467 Tracey or Joe
Bring my CALCULATOR back to CAMPUS. 272-0615. ADOPTION AND OPEN OPTIONS. You two are the best. 
1-way ticket to ANCHORAGE via Rich
the Reserve Book Room. EARL CALL COLLECT 616-247-6936. 
ND PARENTS: THE ANSWER TO DENVER via SEATTLE, depart
CONDO for summer rental. Close 

YOUR STUDENT'S HOUSING 5111 , 4pm, female only. $150. Call 
IIIII JUNIORS, JUNIORS!!! IIto NO. 2 bd, furnished.Rent 

COSTS -HOUSE W/2 APTS. Karin 233-88031ate evenings & 
Laura,LOST: ONE LITILE GIRL'S SNOW nexibtel! Call 272-5708. 

GOOD CONDITION, CLOSE TO early mornings. 
COAT. PINK LONDON FOG SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND I told you I would put something 
NO. LET'S EXPLORE DISK TO CAREER AND in here. You were an awesomeBRAND, LINED WITH BLUE LARGE HOUSE, 2 BATHS, 415 POSSIBILITIES. 289-8720 (8-3PM)
FLOWERS. FITS A 2-YEAR-OLD PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR GOO on Monday night. Thanks for
BDRMS. $700. 282·1014. 
•••ONE-WAY TICKET••• 

TOODLER. CAN ARRANGE FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW. helping me out.
FOR SALE: !!!!!! BACK TO SCHOOL IIIII!
LOCAL PICK UP. DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 -R­
3 Bedroom House 

EVERYTHING MUST GO Newark to S.Bend, Aug. 26
E. MANLEY PS: Was that safe enough?
Close To Campus 

1 Sofa arrives at NOON. $115
301 W. ARCH STREET $555 Mo. + Dep. !!Ill JUNIORS, JUNIORSIIIII 
1 Window Seat (FI & Gr) Call Monica 4988FLEETWOOD, PA 19522 232-3616 2 Carpets (12x10, 12x13) 
1-215-944-7845 SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND Angie H.,
1 6 foot ladder I will do anything for some 
DISK TO CAREER ANDHouse for Rent 

1 small Refrigerator GRADUATION TIX. 
PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR Do you remember? 
$170/Mon Call x1443 -leave message 

Found: One pair of prescription Call287-2159 Paul RESUME BOOKS NOW! -many SYR's and formals 
Call X1583 

glasses in a Ray-Ban sunglasses DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 -Spring Break ·The Park Hotel
case. Were found on path around 
MARGE -Niagara Falls St. Joe's Lake in front of the 2 BDRM. TOWNHOUSE, TURTLE LUSH -Sneaky Atlantic Wavesseminary. Kathryn x2734 
CREEK, AVAILABLE FOR A 1976 Bitchin' Camaro PERSONAL KATE: I'll miss living dose enough -The Dunes SUMMER SUBLET JUNE 1. CALL Runs well, 96,000 miles to you three that I can interrupt Mr. -SixLOST: CAMEO PIN. GREAT ERICA 283-4768 OR MONIOUE $950 or best offer and Mrs. Rojas, prank phone call -The walks back SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL 239-283-4717. 
contact Jay at x3450 our 'neighbors' with Katey, and join -Our bench
5812 TERRI WELTY. MOVING OFF CAMPUS? Marge on the Sunday morning trek -~ook footprints!"
NEED A BED? to the fountain with Advil in hand. -Dialating Eyes 
FOUND: Room Available in a save & historic DOUBLE BED FOR SALE-VERY
MAUVE CHAIR! ONE YEAR OLD 
Make sure you (and that Houk -•Just a minute, AnnaN
A BLUE BACKPACK AT THE area. Full house priv. Washer & COMFORTABLE-LESS THAN A
IN GOOD CONDITION. BEST character) don't get so comfortable -peanut buner kisses 
LAFAYETIE BLOCK PARTY CALL Dryer included. 1 mi. from N.D. YEAR OLD. CALL ANNE AT
OFFER! ALSO HAVE MATCHING up on 3 that you forget me and -Dork! Dip! Nerd!
288 0597 TO CLAIM $220/mnth. Phone 287-7928 LAFAYETIE SQUARE 288-0597
CARPET! CALL 3745 
........................ 
Sleezy in our posh 1-B loveshak . -And all the other great 
Absence makes the heart grow things we've done Quaint furnished apts. 
stronger, right???? Have a great Thanx for the greatest year!
LOST: A walkman with clock, near N.D. for summer-1bedrm LIMPY & HARVEY'S QUOTE
BIKE FOR SALE!! 10 Speed summer-are we on for the 4th in I love you. 
alarm, radio station presets, $260; summer &fall-effeciency BOARD: "'f course she was
27" -not beautiful but everything 
Chi-town??? All my luvand sloppy Todd
and King Crimson cassette. Call $225; fall-2 bedrm $360; deposit, drunk...she was nice to me.·
works. Asking $45 
wet kisses ........ mony 

Mike S. x3309. references 1-800-582-9320 
call Karen 271-1893 see CLASS I page 1 0 


,• " ·' t .... '. 

SCOREBOARD
page 18 Friday, May 3, 1991 
COLLEGE BASEBALL MAJOR LEAGUE STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS TRIPLE A BASEBALL 
EAST Bloomlleld 4-7, Upula 3-8 Brockport St. 14, St John Fisher 4 Brown 10, Connecticut 8 Canlslua ~3. Niagara 4-4 Fordham 11, Holy Crou Sl, 12 Innings Glalaboro St. 12. Wealrf 3 Hartford 8. Cenl. Connecticut St. 8 Montclair St. 6, Jersey City St. 1 
N.V. 
Tech 5, St. Francis, N.Y. 3 Pace 4, Monmouth, N.J. 2 Rutgers-Newark 3, Ramapo 2 Utica 8, Cor11and St. 3 W. Connecticu118, CCNY 12 Wlliamll 18, Middlebury 3 Yale 9, Oulnnlpiac 3 SOUTH Augusta 8, Winthrop 7, 13 Innings Birmingham-Southern 4, Ala.-Birmlngham 2 Currberland 12-5, Union 8-9 Georgia Coil 6-11, LaGrange 1-0 Ga. Southern 8, Am.trong St. 3 Nova 14, Florida Atlantic 1 Wolford 20, Gardner-Webb 16 MIDWEST John Carroll ~2. Mount Union 3-3 Luther 8-2, Loraa 1-1 

N. 
Illinois ~3. W. lllnols 3-11 NW Iowa 4·5, Buena Vista 3-0 SOUTHWEST Wichita St. at Oklahoma. ppd. rain. FAR WEST San Diego St. 8, Point Lorna 7 


NHL PLAYOFFS 
At Edmonton, Alberta 
Minnes01a 1 1-3 
Edmonton 1 0 o-1 
Fl111t Period-1, Edmonton, S.Sm~h 1 (Semenov, 
Murphy), 2:15 (pp). 2. Minnesota, Broten 5 
(Dahlen), 15:11. 
Second Perlod-3, Minnesota. Gagner 6 (Broten, 
Below&), 8:o5 (pp). 
Third Perlod--4, Minnesota. Duchesne 1 (Dahlen), 16:21. 
Shots on goal-Minnesota 12-11-9-32. 
Edmonton 8-9-11-28. 
Goalies-Minnesota, Casey. Edmonton, Fuhr. A­17,082. 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
AI Times EDT FIRST ROUND (Best-of-5) EASTERN CONFERENCE Chicago VI. New York Thursday, Aprl 25 Chicago 126, New Vork 85 Sunday, April28 Chicago 89, New York 19 Tuesday, April 30 Chicago 103, New Vork 94, Chicago wins series 3­0 
Boston VI. Indiana Friday, April 26 Boston 127, Indiana 120 Sunday, April 28 Indiana 130, Boston 118 Wednesday, May 1 Boston 112, Indiana 105, Boston leads series 2-1 Friday, May3 Boston at Indiana. 8 p.m. Sunday, May 5 Indiana at Boston, TBA. II necessary 
Detroll vs. Atlanta Friday, April 26 Atlanta 103, Detroit 98 Sunday, April 28 Detroit 101, Atlanta 88 Tuesday, April 30 Detroit 103, Atlanta 91 Thursday, May 2 Atlanta 123, Detroit 111, series tied 2-2 Sunday, May 5 Atlanta at Detroit, TBA 
Milwaukee YS. Philadelphia Thursday, AprH 25 Philadelphia 99, Milwaukee 90 Saturday, April 27 Philadelphia 116, Milwaukee 112, OT Tuesday, April 30 Philadelphia 121, Milwaukee 100, Philadelphia wins series 3-0 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Portland VI. Seattle Friday, April26 Portland 110, Seattle 102 Sunday, April 28 Portland 115, Seattle 1 06 Tuesday, April 30 Seattle 102, Portland 99, Portland leads series 2-1 Thursday, May 2 Portland at Seattle, (n) Saturday, May 4 Seattle at Portland, TBA, II necassary 
San Antonio vs. Golden State Thursday, AprU 25 San Antonio 130, Golden State 121 Saturday, April 27 Golden State 1 t 1, San Antonio 98 Wednesday, May 1 Golden State 109, San Antonio 106, Golden State leads series 2-1 Friday, May 3 San Antonio at Golden State, 1 0:30 p.m. Sunday, May 5 Golden State at San Antonio, TBA, ~ necessary 
Los Angeles Laker& vs. Houston Thursday, AprY 25 LA Lakers 94, Houston 92 Saturday, April 27 LA Lakers 109, Houston 98 Tuesday,April30 LA Lake111 94, Houston 90, Los Angeles wins series 3-0 
Phoenix vs. Utah Thursday, AprR 25 Utah 129, Phoenix 90 Saturday, April 27 Phoenix 102, Utah 92 Tuesday, April 30 Utah 107, Phoenix 98, Utah leads series 2-1 Thursday, May 2 Phoenix at Utah, (n) Saturday, May 4 Utah at Phoenix, TBA,II neoessary 

An Times EDT  
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
Eaat  Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pd  (E  L10  Streak  Home  Away  
Boston  1 1  8  .579  z-7-3  Lost  1  6-4  5-4  
Decroll  11  9  .550  1/2  5-5  Won  3  4-4  7-5  
Milwaukee  11  9  .550  1/2  8-4  Won  2  8-5  5-4  
Toronto  12  10  .545  1/2  4-6  Lost  2  8-3  •·7  
Cleveland Baltimore  8 7  10 12  .444 .368  2112 4  4-6 3-7  Won Won  1 1  1-5 3-7  7·5•-s  
New York  6  12  .333  4112  Z-4-6  LOI14  3-4  3-8  
Weat Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pd  (E  L10  Streak  Home  Away  
Oakland  14  7  .667  6-4  Won  5  10.1  4-6  
Chicago  11  7  .611  1 112  5-5  Lost  2  5-4  6-3  
Texas  9  8  .529  3  6-4  Woo  2  4-6  5-2  
Calllomla  10  11  .476  4  z-3-7  Lost  1  5-7  5-4  
Minnesota  10  11  .476  4  z-8-2  Woo  1  8-4  2-7  
Seattle  10  12  .455  4112  z-4-6  Lost  1  6-3  4-9  
Kansas City  8  12  .400  5112  Z-4-6  Lost  5  5-6  3-8  
NAnONAL  LEAGUE  
Eaat  Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pd  (E  l10  Streak  Home  Away  
Pittsburgh  1.  7  .667  z-S-2  Won  1  7-3  7-4  
St. Louis  13  9  .591  1 112  z-7-3  L01t  1  9-4  4-5  
~York  12  9  .571  2  z-6-4  L01t 1  7-5  5-4  
Chicago  11  11  .500  3112  3-7  Won  2  8-3  3-8  
Philadelphia  10  12  .455  4112  6-4  Won  5  8-4  2-8  
Montreal  8  13  .381  6  3-7  Woo  3  5-6  3-7  
Weat Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pd  (E  L10  Streak  Home  Away  
Cincinnati  11  9  .550  5-5  Lost  1  6-5  5-4  
San Diego  12  10  .545  4-6  Woo  1  5-5  7-5  
Los Angeles  10  11  .476  1 112  z-5-5  Lost  2  4-6  6-5  
Atlanta  9  10  .474  1 112  z-6-4  Won  1  2-6  7-4  
Houston  8  12  .400  3  3-7  Lost  2  5-4  3-8  
San Francisco  8  13  .381  3112  Z-3-7  Lost  3  5-4  3-9  
z-denotes first game was a win.  
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
Wedneaday'a  Gamea  

Milwaukee 10, Chicago 9, 19 Innings Oakland 7, New Vork 4 Baltimore 2, Seattle 1 Detroit 6, Kansas C~ 4 Minnesota 1, Boston 0 Texas 3, Toronto 0 Cleveland 5, California 1 
Thuradey'a Gamea Minnesota (Tapani 2-0) at Milwaukee (K.Brown 1-0), 8:05p.m. Toronto (Stottlemyre 2-0) at Kansas City (Appler 1-3), 8:35p.m. Only games scheduled 
Frlday'a Gamea Boston at Chicago, 8:05 p.m. Texas a1 Detroit, 7:35p.m. Toronto at Kansas C~y. 8:35p.m. Minnesota at Milwaukee, 8:35 p.m. Cleveland at Oakland, 10:05 p.m. Baltimore at CaiWornla, 10:35 p.m. New York at Seattle, 10:35 p.m. 
NAnONAL LEAGUE 

Wedneaday'a Gamea Atlanta 5, St. Louis 4, 10 innings Chicago 11, Houston 8 Pltlaburgh 6, Cincinnati 4 Montreal 9, Los Angeles 3 Philadelphia 4, San Francisco 1 San Diego 8, New York 7 
Thuraday'a Gamea No games scheduled 

Frlday'a Gamee St. Louia a1 Cincinnati. 7:35 p.m. San Diego 81 Montreal, 7:35p.m. Los Angeles at Philadelphia. 7:35 p.m. Houston at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. Chicago at Atlanta, 7:40 p.m. San Francisco al New York, 7:40p.m. 
COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
t.Ptq4/V11lh:h SMe!JmtS 
*1 , 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 
5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's look great on
1671 Riverside Drive 

the
233-2212 
TEDIAGI MUTAIT 
NINJADIRTLES li 
THE SECRET OF THE OOZE 
Radically New!~ 
4:30-6:45-8:45 

DEFENDING 
4:45
YOUR LIFE 

7:30
ALBERT BROOKS MERYL 9:45 

ffi STREEP 
...ortal 
l'houghl'a 
Something 
terrible. @ 
4:45-7:15-9:45 
$3.00 .AJI Sh:lws Before 6om 
fhB 5iiBOCB@of tho lambs 
4:30-7:15-9:45 

center. Baltimore Orioles at Rochester, exhibition 
TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS-Announced It has Only games scheduled 
reached an agreement to relocate N8Wil'laft(et al Frldey'a Gamee 
the American Hockey League to St. John's, Loulsvine at Buffalo 
Newloundland. 
NashviHe at Indianapolis Denver at Oklahoma City 

COLLEGE 
Iowa at Omaha 

ATLANTIC 10CONFERENCE-Named Mickey Scranton-Wilkes-Barre CU Pawtucket 
Crowley supervisor of men's basketball officials. Rochester at Tld-ater 
PRINCETON-Named Emily Goodfellow Colurmus at Toledo 

women's squash coach. Syracuse at Richmond 
UC IRVINE-Named Greg Velrone assistant men's basketball coach. VIRGINIA TECH-Named Chris Ferguson assistant basketball coach. 
(juess w among t (jeminis wi turn twenty Som£tfiing in 20 to 28 cfays: 
t£509{'£ 1'1YU.SO(jl'E  S1ff41('R.fYJ{.:JfJ48(lJUS  
M.91_ty23  &  9tf.9L'Y31  
•••tJJe wiser &  A ••have fun!  tyou  
tz'ftanqfor your lit{p in  always fr.appy !iKg fier,e?  
stat.  'Everytfiing wi£[6e 0?(1  

!J{appy 'Birtfufay to you a{{ & gooaCue(on yourfinals I jffriena ofyours. 
HAPPY 19th 
~COLI,EEN 
You'll 
Austrian slopes!
Love, Mom, Dad, Brigid. Kevin, Sean, and Jack 

eo!I~RI1Tr/ILI1TI()IIt// 

TrJ TlfEetlltt()!1991 
from the Washington, D.C. Alumni Club 
If you're going to be locating in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. area, we'd like to welcome you as a new member of our club. 
For Information Contact: 
Tom McHugh 2700 Farm Road Alexandria, Virginia 
22302 703-549-7612 
Pd. .700 .467 
.444 
.400 
.750 
.444 
.444 .316 
Pd. .632 .529 
.444 
.316 
.813 .474 .421 .429 

BASEBALL National League 
SAN DIEGO PADREs-Placed Pat Clements. pitcher, on the 15-day disabled list. Recalled Steve Roeenberg, pitcher, from L.aa Vegaa ol the Pacllc Coast League. 
BASKETBALL National Bukebell A..oclatlon 
NEW YORK KNIC~nnoucned the resignation ol John Macleod, head coach, to to accept the same position at Notre Dame. United States Basketball League 
JACKSONVILLE HOOTERS-Named Lee Smith director ol operallona; Frank Casey director al scouting; and Tom Feathersleln director of media relations. 
FOOTBALL National FooU,.II LHgue 
GREEN BAY PACKER~Igned Blly Ray, quarterback; Rob Neta and Tracy Martin, wide rec:elwfs; Reggie Stewart, linebacker; Mark McCutcheon, safety; Brad Dalulso, kicker; and Art Greathouse, fullback. Released Mke No111eth, quarterback. 
PITTSBURGH STEELER~Igned Jarred Johnson, center. Waived Ryan Bethea. wide receiver. World League of American Football 
FRANKFURT GALAXY-Released Bruce Land. wide receiver. 
MONTREAL MACHINE-Signed George Little, defensive tackle. Released Jerry Leggett, defensive end. 
SACRAMENTO SURGE-Signed Colin Summer, wide receiver. Released Paco Craig, wide receiver, and Kendall Trainor. kicker. 
HOCKEY National Hockey League PHILADELPHIA FLYER~Igned Pelle Eklund, 
American Aaaoclatlon  
Eaatem Dlvlalon  
w  L  
lndpolis (Expos)  14  6  
Buffalo (Pirales)  7  8  
NashvRie (Reds)  8  10  
LoulsviHe (Cards)  8  12  
Weatern Dlvlelon  
Iowa (Cube)  15  5  
Denver (Brewen~)  8  10  
Okla. City (Rang9111)  8  10  
Omaha (Royall)  6  13  
International League  
Eutem Dlvlalon  
w  L  
Syracuse (Blue Jays)  12  7  
Pawtucket (Red Sox)  9  8  
Rochester (Orioles)  8  10  
Scranton-WB (Phlllies)  6  13  
Weatern Dlvlalon  
Columbus (Yankees)  13  3  
Toledo (Tig9111)  9  10  
Tidewater (Mats)  8  11  
Richmond (Braves)  9  12  
Wedneadey'a Gamea  

Buffalo 5, Nashvile 4, 10 Innings Tidewater 16, Syracuse 4 Indianapolis 7, Louisville 4 Denver 3, Oklahoma C~ 1 Omaha 4, Iowa 1 Richmond 4, Rochester 2 Toledo 10, Scranton-Wilkes-Barre 5 Only games scheduled Thuraday'a Gemea Louisville at Buffalo Denver at Oklahoma C~ Nashville at Indianapolis Iowa at Omaha Scranton-Wilkes-Barre at Pawtucket Colurmus at Toledo 



-___ ..,. ... ---~-------.... -......... -----------·----------.• ... -.-.-----... -----... -......... ---. -------... --... --.. -------------... -----..... --­

Friday, May 3, 1991 
The Observer page 19 
~-.. 
~~·. 
~~1~. 
~~~~t 

Arthur Andersen Welcomes the Following 1991 University of Notre Dame 

and 







Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Firm 


Christopher B. Anderson 
Cleveland Office 
John F. Berardino 
Stamford Office 
Ronald P. Bielski 
Chicago Office 

Kelly S. Bradley 
Sacramento Office 
Kevin E. Buhrfiend 
Chicago Office 

Wendy M. Burek 
Chicago Office 

Catherine C. Byrne 
Chicago Office 

Ryan D. Cahill 
Chicago Office 

Michael J. Caputo 
New York Office 
Michael J. Connell 
New York Office 
Claudine A. Coscia 
New York Office 
Elizabeth A. Crisp 
Chicago Office 

Victor Cuciniello 
New York Office 
Amy M. Cunningham 
Chicago Office 

Patricia A. deMink 
Chicago Office 
Derek M. Dobecki 
Chicago Office 
Megan V. Frigon 
Chicago Office 
Kelly J. Furlan 
Chicago Office 
Michael J. Gallagher 
Chicago Office 
Michael R. Gervasio 
Chicago Office 
W. Todd Hudson 
New York Office 
Michael C. Jillson 
Atlanta Office 

Paul H. Kettler 
Fort Lauderdale Office 
Suzanne M. Koester 
Chicago Office 
Mark A. Kovarik 
St. Louis Office 
David P. Kuipers 
Chicago Office 
Anthony P. Livorsi 
Chicago Office 
Andrew M. McNeill 
Atlanta Office 
Frank L. Montabon 
Chicago Office 
Frank W. Mount 
Dallas Office 
Thomas E. Nowak 
Chicago Office 
Michael J. O'Connor 
Chicago Office 
Roy J. Ott Jr. 
New Jersey Office 
• 

Jonathan 0. Paluga 
Chicago Office 
Edward J. Philbin Ill 
Boston Office 
Nancy E. Rafinski · Chicago Office Mark D. Rastovac 
Chicago Office 
Leon J. Reymond 
New Orleans Office 
Rachel Reyna 
San Antonio Office 
Barton S. Richards 
Chicago Office 
William E. Schaffler 
Dallas Office 
Boyd J. Seidler 
Milwaukee Office 
Michael J. Sinnott 
New Jersey Office 
Paul M. Stephan 
Minneapolis Office 
Daniel E. Stopar 
Cleveland Office 
Kevin M. Whelan 
Boston Office 

-· 
! 
l I I I I -I I I I I I I 
I ~ 
'!Y 
., 







-.!,.;_. .. 

page 20 The Observer 
Sports 

fit1erpsencrs-·2o:year-teiiiuri~wlffi-Ntrn(Xit:>s-




The Top Ten Sports Stories of 1990-91 


2 

Ismail's decision to join Argos made 

easier by Pats 

-.· 
-

II 
t \ 
I I 
~ ! 
I 
) 

I 
) II 


fl
I 
I r 
I l 
I ) I 
! 
l 
I I I)
I )I J 
I J 
u
:I 
. I 
IJ I J . J 
If 
I j I J ) 
l J 
·; i f 
i 
i 
l 
I 
) ) ( 

J 
J J 

J -.-.---... ---.. -.. ------------.. _------.... ----.. .......... _.. ---___............................... ---..... --..... ------.._-.. ----..
-~----~ 
3 
Macleod the next Irish coach? 
-sJ,Orts 

~OCfie~(ri~::! ~)C~ trl~ t.-Mfit;?•·--:"'Th;;ti";$!;u~:~ ~;('·· 


9 
Cummins diving towards perfection 

-

~ ... -------~ . --..... -.... -.... -.......... . 
1 
Phelps ends 20­year tenure with ND hoops 
Digger Phel_ps resigned after 20 years as head coach of Notre Dame basketball. Phelps suffered a losing season and deplorable support, _yet resigned with his head high. Phelps cited a desire to live outside of basketball as his reason for his resignation. Throughout his 20 years as a coach for the Irish, Phelps boosted a 100 percent graduation rate for all of his basketball players. The man who broughtgreen carnations, Armani suits and Vincent van Gogh to the JACC leaves behind him manymemories. 
April 16, 1991 

4 
Ismail will forego . senior year to enter NFL draft 
Sports 
f;',.;;;rrwmTaT.;go·*nioi yeario~ifQilijf'[dii(it-'­

January 25, 1991 

,. 
. 

Friday, May 3, 1991 
The Observer page 21 

NOTRE 
' 
DAME 
ON 

TELEVISION 
'lhe UJZiversity of Notre Dame's a1vard-winning series takes a look at the dark "lt'orld of drugs and1vhat comtnunities across the nation are doing to free themselves from it. Watch on local public television, 
WNIT-TV, 

Channel34, and on Heritage Cablevision's VISN Channel 31. 
"Ufe Choices" begins itS new season of programs with a series on science and religion. This four part series examiaes the interplay between science and religion and features 1hree 
Notre Dame professors, Rev. Michael J. Buckley, S.J. a theologian; physicist James T. Cushing, and Rev. Ernan Me Mullin, a philosopher of science. other persons appearing on the program include mathematician Roger Penrose of Oxford University and Rev. Dr. John Polkinghorne, President of Queens' College, Cambridge University. 
Science and Religion: An Overview 
• 
How reasonable Is raUglous belielln an age ol science? 
WNIT, Chanal 84-May 11, B:OoP.DL; May 12, 11 :30 a.m. Heritage Cable Charmol 31-Juna 3, 7:30 p.m.; JuM 4, 2:30 p.m.; June 6, 10:30 a.m.; JIDI8 7, 8:00 a.m.; June 8, 2:30 am.; and June 8, 
12:00 p.m. 
SCience and Religion: 1.11 There Be light IIIII The Bill Bana can raDglous notions a scientific notions about tblnatln al 1111 IDIIvarsa ba reconciled? 
WNIT, ChaiUiel 34-Miy 18, 8:00 p.DL; May 18, 11 :30 LDL Heritage Cable Ch•el 81-Ju• 1 o, 7:80 p.m.; -.11, ~o p.m.; June 12, 10:30 a.m.; June 14, 8:00 a.m.; June 16, 2:80 LDL; and June 18, 12:00 p.m. 
SCience and Religion: Creation and Evomdon II rellgl0111 balellll creation compatible wltb OlrWtn's1h•Y of evoutlon? 
WNITI Channel ~Y 25, 8:00 p.DL; May 28, 11 :80 a.DL Heritage Cable Channel 31-Juna 17, 7:30 p.m.; J1111 18, 2:30 pm.; Juno 19, 10:30 am.; Juno 21 1 G:OO am.; June 22, 2:30 a.DL; and Juno 23, 12:00 pm. 
Science and Religion: Mind, Brain and Soul Can the sciences-physics, charnstry, biology, and neuroscience ton the whole story about humans? • 
WNIT, Charmei84-Jtma 1 , 8:00 p.DL; June 2, 11 :ao a.DL Harnage Cable Channel-June 24, 7:30 p.m.; June 25, 2:30 pm.; June 28, 10:30 am.; June 281 B:OO a.m.; June 291 2:30 a.m.; and June 30, 12:00 p.m. 
ALL TIMES ARE EASTERN STANDARD TIME 
... 

----· ~~ ··----~·---~~----._____.......__.,~~--......_____.___~________________.............-.;.._,_______.. 
page 22 The Observer Friday, May 3, 1991 

players into the pros. He had a in pro basketball. There's more tough year with the Nicks, but pressure coaching for us than
Macleod Director's award given to 
his record shows that he can for most pro teams. ND fans continued from page 28 turn a program around." are poor fans in the sense that John Cullimore, sr., they don't tolerate a loser in 
Belles' tennis star Mayer
surprised that he left the pro 

Cavanaugh: such a nationally visual sport as
ranks with the jobs available in Observer Staff Report 
top tandem. The doubles team

'Tm disappointed. I would've Division I basketball." 
Minnesota and Miami." 
was ranked seventh in the

preferred a younger guy like Dick Dornan, alum, public
Lisa Petursson, jr., Breen­

Athletes were honored for Midwest.
(John) Shumate. He's gonna be relations assistant, L.A. Lakers: 
Phillips: 

their skill and dedication Mayer also was named MVP
just another Digger. I don't "It's good fro the university.
"I really don't know that 

Thursday night, as Saint Mary's of the Belles' tennis squad. 
know how he's gonna recruit It'll be interesting to see how he
much about him, but we're al­

held its annual sports banquet. The Athlete of the Year award
kids since he hasn't been in the fits into the college game after
ways ready for new people 

One of the most prestigious was given to Janet Libbing, who 
college game in 18 years." so many years in the pros. It's
here." 

Randy Soriano, jr., Pangborn: something that will help the awards of the evening, the was also named MVP of the 
Jim Kuser, soph .., Alumni: 

Director's Award, went to Sarah Saint Mary's basketball team.
"It's a good decision by the young players. They should be
! "What worries me about him 
Mayer. Libbing hit 79 percent of her 
I 
I University. I don't know a lot able to develop more with a
is the fact that he hasn't had to 

The Belles' tennis star was free throws this year, and threw
about him, but from what I've professional-level coach teach­
play a zone defense in 19 years. 

truly outstanding, leading her in a remarkable 18 of 32 three­
' 
l l heard, it seems like he's pretty ing them. He's a very positive
He sgould bring a run-and-gun 

team to a 15-10 record and a point attempts. 
excited about the job." person and knows what it takes 
type offense. Recruiting should 

p~ Scott Brutocao, sr., Off­to win. It's a new change to a sixth ranking in Division III in Mary Killian was named the 
-work to his advantage since he
I 
the Midwest. Mayer was in the winner of the Scholar-Athlete
Campus: team that needed it." 
I 
knows both the college and pro 

top 20 in the Midwest all award. The elementary
"He'll have as tough a time The Associated Press con­
systems and would have a 

season, and teamed with her education major has a 3.533
with ND fans as with any fans tributed to this story. 
better chance at launching his 

sister Ellen to form the Belles' GPA. 

~ 
Class 
continued from page 1 0 
· the "other" Michelle-Can't wait for more cocco & homework parties I Remmeber great things happen when you don't stay home and mope! 
P.S. Paul wants to know why you took down your steeet signs I 
SHAYNE, I read your name under Security Beat... 
"Regina resident reported that her doset exploded. Damaged items included; scunchies, a caboodle, a wallet, and a set of keys." 
Favor Requested and Granted. Say this prayer 9 times per day for 8 days...it has never been known to fail. Publication must be promised. May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adored, glorified, loved, and preserved throughout the world now and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus pray for us. St. Jude worker of miracles pray for us. St. Jude help of the hopeless pray for us. Thank you St. Jude, Sacred Heart, and Mary! P.B. C.L. 
Nowlnq FAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 4 & 5 BEDAOOII UNITS AYAII.A8LE 
Amfto!Ues !odp· 
-WASI-JER & DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISH'.VASHER -CEN"!''W. AIR ·PATIOS 
ONlY A fi:W APARTl.t:NTS LEFTI lL fl. ·AORE INFO NOW. ":12-8251 

Top ten reasons to eat NACHOS 
1
. We can't study without them 

2. 
Without our support, Foodsales would go under. 

3. 
It's 1o:oo 


4. 
Tomorrow's LunchFast. We should eat now. 5. It's 11:00 


6. The food groups: milk ( in the cheese) carbohydrates (those chips) 
veggies (salsa aka lava) 7.1rs 12:00 8.Ummm ... Yeah ... We'll do sit-ups in the room later. 9.We need to fend off all those men who want our bodies-stinky breath seemed like a good plan. 
10. Foodsales closes in 5 minutes! 

'OURSELF A FUIV0/7
............ 
....... _
------­
DINNER FOR 2 FOR $8.99 Pick any two Gourmet Sandwiches, two garden Salads, plus your choice of French Fries or Oruon Rings and 2 Mini-Sundaes 
expiration date 5/19 
Buy any size sundae and 
------­
SUNDAE  receive a second one of the  
99¢  same size for 99<  
expiration date 5/19  

Juniors! Juniors! Submit copy of resume and disk to Career and Placement Services for Resume Books now! Deadllne: Friday, May 10 
* * * * * 
Juniors! Juniors! Submit copy of resume and disk to Career and Placement Services for Resume Books now! Deadline: Friday, May 10 
...................,....... a ........... ~................,-... 

Top Ten Reasons CHRISTINA PARSONS is glad to be 211 
10. You can see the inside of all the bars. 
9. You can fully enjoy your "2nd" senior year. 
8. Now you're a "legal" alcoholic-tell that to the alcohol lady. 
7. The true "IRISW in you can finally come out (in a pub). 
6. You can buy the daiquiri mix in Walgreens. 
5. You have better places to scope then the dining hall. 
4. Throw fNiay your squeeze bottles; and carry the bottle. 
3. When you're carried home sloppy drunk by Dillon men you'll be legal. 
2. You can drink on the party ship. 
1. You can "Buy" for all your underage friendsll!! Love, Peanut and the gallery 
I hear him before I go to sleep and focus on the day thats been • I realize he's there when I turn the light off and turn over-When I stay up late, he's always waiting, but I feel him hesitate. rm so worried about my love. He's here again: the man with the child in his eyes. 
HUGHESY· Stay away from men with bloodshot eyes who do the worm! 
To the "losr member of the unofficial triple: Missed you second semester. Watch out for falling speakers! 
Hey CYN! 
Just want to say irs been a great year and I'm psyched for 3071 Love, Mel 
......................................... 
........................................ 
Rich, Hey How are ya!rThanks for coming by tonightl!l I'll miss you over the summer but (no more Observer hell. See ya!! Good luck on Finals!!!!! 
p.s. Say 'HI!" to Katie for me!II 
......................................... 
........................................ 
Peter Blasi, Good Luck on Finals at STV!!! To bad I'm coming home soon to steal "your car." Have fun, cheer up!!! Love, Your wonderful big sister Jeanne. 
Jeanne, 
You production goddess you! Irs a real shame that we won't be working the dreaded Thursday nighrs next year. The observerites will miss our whining and late night fits. Plus, I'll miss working with you and discovering new things about our beloved Quarks as well as those potent diet cokes. Have a great summer and I'll send you a postcard from Hawaii!! love the other goddess! 
Melissa 
Melissa, Had a Great year. I'll miss our Thurs. night rendez-vous!!! But i'll be sub next year so maybe .... love , Production goddess 

Student Government Would Like To Thank: 
john A. Buck Robert M. Conway john W jordan) II Terrence j. McGlinn Paul E. Tierney) ]r. 
(Several Members of the Arts & Letters and Blisiness Councils) 
For Funding The "Public Forum On Contemporary Issues" Your Generosity Has Greatly Enhanced The Intellectual Life On Our Campus 

~ .........................___ ----..----... "'-..,.-.., 
lit 

~TUDENT 
G 0 Y I R N I I N l 

; ­
J , .. \. ' ... ­

Friday, May 3, 1991 
The Observer 
page 23 


for maximizng your potential••• 

•
.. 


...And thanks to everyone who helped us celebrate Macjam 1991! We have shown you how powerful a tool the Macintosh can be for you in the business world. We have introduced you to the SuperDrive. You have seen how the Mac's capabilities surpass mere word processing. You have seen how Macintosh works hard at making it easier for you, the user. Shouldn't you maximize your own potential? Visit the Computer Store, and take full advantage of what it has to offer each member 
of the Notre Dame community. 
... ­
.... 
:1 I L E V 



' I 8 U P 



____ .,. __ ' 
.. ---· .-----. -------... ----~ ~ ----------------.... ---.... ---------~ .... ------.. -............. ._-...... --..... --.-... -·--------------.. ---.. ---------------------­
. : ~--"~ 


I, 
i 
l 
l 

.Jt 
----~
-

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------... 
page 24 The Observer Friday, May 3, 1991 
Track squad to close season at CCCs 
by HUGH MUNDY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team wraps up its 1991 outdoor season Saturday as the Irish host the Central Collegiate Championships. 
The meet features the Midwest's best competition as squads from the University of Wisconsin, Eastern Michigan University, and the University of Michigan are scheduled to participate. 
Notre Dame captain Ryan Cahill believes the Irish will challenge for the overall title. 
"If we get productive per­formances from guys in every event, we'll be in the run­ning, "he remarked. 
Although Notre Dame has had few highlights in a uneventful 1991 outdoor campaign, Cahill expects a turnaround in Saturday's contest. 
"This is the last home meet for the seniors so I think every-

Notre Dame leads MCC with 64 student­athletes named to Academic Honor Roll 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's reputation as an institution where academics and athletics go hand in hand was reaffrrmed with the release of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Academic Honor Roll. Sixty-four of Notre Dame's student-athletes were given the award for 1990-1991. 
To receive the award, the athletes must be on a varsity team, have a 3.25 cummulative grade-point average, and have been a full-time student at the school for at least three semesters. 
Notre Dame led all schools with 64 honorees. As for the rest of the schools, Xavier had 44, Butler had 39, Saint Louis had 2 7, both Dayton and Detroit had 24, Evansville had 23, Marquette had 19, and Loyola had 16. 
The Irish men's track team had the most honorees for 
Tennis 
continued from page 28 
"If rrrst doubles gets in," said Louderback, "then we will have three people going to the tournament, which would be a great accomplishment." Louderback doubted that the team would receive a bid when they are officially extended, due to the number of close losses. 
At the tennis banquet earlier this week, Melissa Harris was voted both Most Valuable Player and Most Improved Player, and captain Kim Pacella, the lone senior on the team, was named Academic­Athlete. Pacella brought the Irish consistency at fifth and sixth singles, and in all the doubles slots, and will be missed, but don't fret for the Irish too much, for next year's team will be loaded with experienced players. 
"Losing Kim is a big loss off the court as well as on," said Louderback. "Next year we will have Tracy and Melissa back, and that is a big plus. This year's freshmen will be even tougher, and we signed Laura Schwab , who is a really solid player and will definitely help, especially at singles. I think we'll have a shot at being a solid top-20 team next year." 

one will be prepared to perform really well," he said. 
Cahill will compete along with fellow senior Mike O'Connor in the 5,000 meter run. 
Senior Pat Kearns headlines a stellar 10,000 meter field which also includes Notre Dame junior Mike Drake and Kevin Buhrfiend, a senior who turned in a personal best 10 kilometer effort at last month's Indiana Intercollegiates. 
Kearns, who qualified for the IC4A Championships at Tennessee's Dogwood Relays, will look to break the 30:00 barrier in the grueling twenty five lap event. 
Other athletes participating for the final time in an Irish uniform include Mark Lavery, who will race at 800 meters and Scott Vandenberg, entered in the 400 meter dash. 
However, Lavery and Vandenberg have a solid chance of extending their careers as 
Notre Dame with 12, the women's swimming team had 11, and the women's track team had eight award winners. 
Senior Renee Kaptur, a mem­ber of both the cross country and the track teams, won the award for the first time this year. Kaptur was happy with the award. 
"Being able to practice and keep up with schoolwork is al­ways a challenge," said Kaptur. "It feels good to know you can put in the time and be recog­
:: N ~ 


Grand Opening 
The Varsity Shop Hair Designers 52580 U.S. 31 north (across from No. Village Mall, 3 minutes 

from campus) 
We've moved & We are bigger and better 
Specials  
Haircuts Perms(starting at) Shampoo & set or Blow Dry &Iron  $5.95 $29.95 $6.95  

Coupon Expires May 19,1991 

277-0057 
.. ---'--· .. 

both athletes have flirted with IC4A qualifying times through­out the year. 
The field events feature se­nior high jumper John Cole and long jumper Jeff Smith, also a senior. 
Field captain Tony Smith will throw the discus for the Irish. 
Smith, who has already quali­fied for the IC4A meet, hopes to see improvement in all throw­ing events. 
"We've made progress in each event throughout the sea­son, especially the hammer throw," noted Smith. "However, based on our practice throws, we can all improve" 
Smith will be joined by senior Frank Montabon in the discus. 
Montabon will also participate in the shot put along with freshman Brian Brach. 
The javelin features Irish fullback Ryan Mihalko, already an IC4A quaifier as well as ju­nior Matt Deangelis. 
nized for what you're at college for." 
Sophomore Mike Fitzpatrick, a member of the men's soccer team was unaware he had won the award. 
"I think it's good that they honor athletes for their aca­demics. I also think it is a great accomplishment for the whole team. It says a lot about the team," said Fitzpatrick. The soccer team had five honorees including Fitzpatrick. 
NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 
Every one at Non-Varsity Athletics would like to thank those who have made this a very successful and rewarding year. 
-~-­
SPOR1S SHORTS 




SPOR1S BRIEFS 

•Irish 
Guard: Anyone interested in trying out for the Irish Guard who missed the first informational meeting should call Chris Woods at 283-1606. 

•The 
football coaches will play the champions from the football team basketball tournament today at 5:30 pm. At 6:30 pm The Bookstore Basketball All-Stars will challenge the football team all-stars. The games will be played in the main floor of the JACC and admission is $1. All proceeds will go to the homeless shelter. 

•Anyone 
who would be interested in forming a ND!SMC leg wrestling club for next year should contact Kent Goffinet at 283-1435. 

•The 
Tae Kwon Do Club would like to wish the best of luck to our graduating seniors: Nelson Hinojosa, Daniel Trainor, Daniel Menge, and Vittorio Puente. Congratulations. 

•The 
Jonesville Jaycees will sponsor canoe races May 18 and 19. For more information call Gary Perkins at (517) 849­9078. 

•The 
Indiana Youth Rugby Association will host the USA Rugby Nationa High School Tournament May 17 and 18. For ticket information call (317) 57 8-7 429. 


Participants Officials Red Cross and EMT's Aerobic Instructors NVA Staff 

SR. WEEK CELEBRATION AT Chi-Chi's 
Aprill3-16 
Special discounts in our Cantina all week long 
. , ,.. .. ,... Friday, May 3, 1991 
The Observer page 25 
OBSERVER ATHLETIC AWARDS 1. Tanya Williams, swimming (4) ... 27 2. Karen Robinson, basketball (4) ... 24 3. Heidi Piper, fenclng ......................... 11Moose Krause 4. Tracy Barton, tennis ..•....•..........•...... .4 Award 5. Kathy Phares, go/1.............................. 3 6. Alison Lester, soccer ........................ 1 for the best 6. Missy Linn, softba11.....•..............•...... 1 6. Krissi Davis, basketball... ............... 1 ~..:Jit;iiilllllllllill~le athlete 1. Bob Bayliss, men's tennis (2) ••.•..••••...•.17 2. Pat Murphy, baseball (3) .....•....•.............. 15 ,.-..t:::::::~E;;~ 3. Joe Plane, men's cross country {1) ..... 11 4. Muffet McGraw, women's basketball ..10 5. Digger Phelps, men's basketball {1) ..... 7 6. Yves Auriol, fencing (1) ............................. 6 7. Lou Holtz, head footba11 ............................. 3 7. Chris Petrucelli, women's soccer .......... 3  Lax hopeful for post season play By DAVE McMAHON shooting percentage, tops NCAA birth. Associate Sports Editor among the starters, and has 23 "One of the reasons why we goals and 10 assists. Junior play this game at the end of the It's now or never for the Notre attackman Brian Schirf, with 22 schedule is that we want to be Dame lacrosse team. After a goals and seven assists, at our best," said Corrigan. season that has shown shades completes the threatening of­"And I think we're at that pointof brilliance along with days of fensive trio. Success will come right now." blunder, Saturday's season on Saturday only if all three After a mid-season hiatus, finale against Michigan State at play well. sophomore Chris Parent will East Lansing is essentially the "It's important that we have a start in goal for the Irish. first game of post season play good balance offensively," said Parent replaced Pat Finn in the for the Irish (7-6). A win almost Irish third-year coach Kevin second half of the Ohio State assuredly sends them to the Corrigan. "We'll need six guys contest, which provided a NCAA tournament for the in there creating opportunities much-needed confidence second straight year, while a all the time. If we rely on one builder. Spartan victory would end the person, we'll be in trouble." "I felt really good coming in season for Notre Dame with a The Irish hope to counter during the last game," said disappointing 7-7 record. Michigan State's extremely up­Parent. "The game was on the The possibilities for post-sea­tempo offense by playing fun­line and I knew I couldn't make son play, however, are strong. damental offense and hustling any mistakes." Playing their best lacrosse of on defense to el.iminate any in­The familiar face of senior the season, the young squad dividual matchups. defenseman Dave Barnard has couldn't have chosen a better " We need to play at the right helped out. Parent and point in the season to gel. The tempo ourselves just to keep Barnard played together in highIrish, 3-1 in their last four them out of their offense," said school. games, have out-scored their Corrigan. "Defensively, we'll "Dave's a particular inspira­last two opponents 29-11. have to get our midfielders back tion to me since we've been Offensively the Irish are led in the hole so we can match up playing together for so long,"  

Accolades 
continued from page 28 
swimmer this year. Williams placed eighth in the 400 individual medley at the NCAA championships in March. 
Irish coach Bob Bayliss won Coach of the Year honors after a successful year at the helm of the men's tennis team. Bayliss was surprised by the honor. 
"It's a little unusual consider­ing we lost 11 matches and other coaches probably achieved more than I did," said Bayliss. 
by attackman Mike Sullivan with 32 goals and 25 assists. The junior broke the record for assists in a season last year with 32, and moved and could move into second place on the points in a season list with an average effort on Saturday. 
Sophomore midfielder Brian Mayglothling sports a .315 said Parent. "I always know where he's gonna be on the field." 
The senior leadership on de­fense has been a tremendous boost to the young squad. Seniors Eamon McAnaney, Pete Gillin, and Dave Barnard have in their last season as if on a mission. 
Irish baseball silently makes history in 1991 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball 
team (33-13), who have won 20 
of their )sat 21, will host the 
University of Detroit this 
weekend at Jake Kline field. 
The Irish have had an 
exceptional season this year, 
and have reconsidered their 
goals. The team's main 
objective is not only to make 
the NCAA tournament, but to 
be successful. 
Notre Dame has won big games this year, giving this confidence to the players. The Irish began their giant-killing early, defeating now top-ranked Wichita State 5-0 last fall. 
This spring, Notre Dame has defeated Texas, then ranked seventh, and LSU, ranked third, in each of those teams' home parks. 
Notre Dame baseball has a long and storied tradtion. Yet, the Irish 18-game winning streak, ended last weekend against Saint Louis, is the longest in the 100-year history of Notre Dame baseball. 
If the current Irish streak continues, 1991 could be the biggest history-making year in the Irish baseball record books. 
-
-

with them six-on-six." 
In last year's contest, the Irish erupted four for goals in the final quarter to cruise to a 12-6 victory and secure their first ever trip to the NCAA tournament. The Spartans re­turn all four of their top scorers from last year's squad, which finished 9-6 and without an 


page 26 The Observer Friday, May 3, 1991 
Softball team splits hoar-e doubleheader with Detroit 
By RENE FERRAN on an error. Stefanie Hayes three-hitter to raise her record Associate Sports Editor grounded to first, and Kathy to 13-11, said. "I know I went Vernetti threw to second, but out there wanting to win the 
The Notre Dame softball team the throw was late, and both game for her." split a doubleheader yesterday runners were safe. Folsom left the game with afternoon with league-leading Denice Tackett singled to left Detroit ahead 1-0 after Jacqui Detroit at the Notre Dame to score Harlukovicz, and Cris Pitts singled to lead off the softball field. Wasserman followed with an­game, stole second, advanced to 
The Irish (31-21) lost to the other single to bring home third on a groundou t, and Titans (32-21) 2-1 in the opener, pinch runner Lisa Rockafellow scored on Harlukowicz's sacri­but came back to take the with the winning run. fice fly to center. nightcap 4-1. "I was thinking about a Senior Kathy Vernetti, who 
The opening game loss was pitching change in the sixth, but hadn't caught in three years, another in a string of heart­they hadn't really hit her; she came in and did a creditable job breakers for Notre Dame had a no-hitter going until behind the plate for the Irish. 
; I 
against Detroit. Earlier in the then," said coach Brian Boulac. More importantly, however, season, the Irish lost a pair of "It was a situation where she Vernetti's two-out RBI-triple in 1-0 games at Detroit, and with was still on, but they got the the fifth, tying the score at one, the Titans' come-for-behind win two hits. She wasn't hit hard, sparked the Notre Dame attack. in game one, it seemed as if but we made a couple of errors The Irish exploded for three they had Notre Dame's number. that came back to haunt us." runs in the sixth off losing 
"We weren't mentally ready to And when catcher Amy pitcher Peggy Hammerschmidt play them the first time we met Folsom, the 1990 Most Valuable (13-9) and Cheryl Miles to break them," pitcher Missy Linn said. Player and one of the better open a game. Laurie "They were both pitchers duels, defensive catchers in the Sommerlad walked and moved but we just didn't get the hits .. region, sprained a knee in the to second on Ruth Kmak's sac­. and the rrrst game today could second inning of the nightcap, it rifice. Fay then tripled in pinch have gone either way." appeared the Titan jinx would runner Lisa Miller to knock 
The Irish broke through first continue. Hammerschmidt out of the box. in the fourth inning when "It was unreal. It was one of Crossen greeted Miles with a Megan Fay doubled, advanced those things that's just fate, that double to left to score Fay, and to third on Rachel Crossen's Amy got hurt," Boulac said. Boulac singled home Crossen grounder to third and scored on "You don't plan on people with the third Irish run of the Debbie Boulac's slow bouncer to getting injured." inning. short. But Folsom's injury also "We especially wanted to win The Observer/John Rock 
But Detroit, which had been helped inspire the team to get this game for Amy," Vernetti Senior Kathy Vernetti prepares to field a ground ball at first base. no-hit by Carrie Miller (7-6) its first victory in four tries this said. "We were mentally down Vernetti later moved to catcher when starter Amy Folsom was injured. through five innings, came alive season against the MCC leaders. against Detroit ... but I knew once it starts, we can go. It just today," Coach Boulac said. "I'd 
I 
in the sixth. With one out, "We didn't get motivated in that once we got it going, we takes a couple of people to get have hated to lose that ball Debbie Harlukowicz-the con­the second game until Amy got would keep it going. Our team us started." game when she was pitching as 

l 
r 

ference batting leader-reached hurt," Linn, who pitched a really feeds on momentum, and 
Football stars to face coaches in hoops 
Observer Staff Report Quiet Storm, the number-one most of the tournament.
I 
seed in the tournament, de­Tonight at 5:30 p.m., Quiet feated 11th-seeded Five Short "I don't think it makes up for Storm, the champions of the Walk-Ons 21-17 in last night's Bookstore, because Bookstore is 
n football team's intrasquad championship game. Dorsey a special event," said basketball tournament, will Levens and Eric Jones scored Jones-who, while missing meet a squad made up of the six points apiece to lead Quiet several games, was a first-team Irish coaching staff in a charity Storm, while Chet Hollister Observer All-Bookstore mem­
game at the Joyce ACC. paced the Walk-Ons with seven. ber. "But it's nice to have a
~ :~ 
'. 
Admission is $1, with all pro­According to Irish assistant tournament just for the players ceeds going towards the coach Skip Holtz, the tourna­on the team." 
I :. 
i I· I\' 
Homeless Shelter of South ment was created in part due to Other players on Quiet Storm 
I 1\ 
Bend. the NCAA regulations limiting are Ray Griggs, Brian Ratigan))l Afterwards, an all-star team the time available for spring and Karl McGill. The coaches' 
from the football tournament football practice. With workouts team consists of Lou and Skip:H~ will face an all-star team from scheduled during Bookstore Holtz, Tom Beck, Gary Darnell, II{{ recently completed Bookstore games, many of the football Jay Hayes, Ron Cooper, Peter 
~ l 
i
' l 
l 
\)jJ :~ 
Jl
)!~
I { I .: 
iI 1 
I j l IJ)~
I J) 
!JH
(1
I )~ r )J) -' I f{i : j !j 
. J lj
}l 
IJ1l 
I j)l 
~~ 
)J, JII' 
f/1
f}{
):j 
1'!1
rtr ('
I 
I . 
I ' 
)J.J
,,. 
J ~; 
I'I
l i .I:. 
j 
XX. players were unavailable for Vaas and Bubba Cunningham. 
MONEY NOW, PAY LATER 
Graduates, we have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 

NEW AUTO-9.75°/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your first year as part of this special offer. QUICK CASH-13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this loan, you simply write a check! 

RELOCATION-9.1 °/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to repay. You must also have our Mastercard and line-of-credit. 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Separale from the l.lnlwrsl!y 
"Missy pitched a great game well as she was. 

American Red Cross 

MAILBOXES ETC~ 
Authorized Shipping Outlet 

On Campus La Mans Hall Lobby 
Sat. May 4. Mon. May 6to Sat. May 11 
Stepan Center Basketball Court 
Mon. May 6 to Sat. May 11 
Lyons Hall Basketball Court 
Wed. May 8 to Sat. May 11 

50°/o OFF 
All Boxes 
$1.00 OFF Per Box· UPS 



(Pick up is free, but no discounts given on Pick-ups) Call Early to reserve apick-up time. 

Friday, May 3, 1991 The Observer 
CAMPUS 
CROSSWORD 
Friday ACROSS 31 lnge's "-­57 Antediluvian 
7:30 p.m. an 9:30 p.m. Film, "Pump Up the Volume." Roses" 58 Idaho's capital 
1 Buy off 
32 Flowerless

Annenberg Audit ium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. 6 Headlights 59 Elks, e.g. 
plant

11 Tangled mass 60 Bro of Joltin'
33 Otherwise 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film, "The Meaning of Life." Cushing 14 Penumbras 36 Barrel stave Joe 
61 Repeatedly
Auditorium. Admission $2. 15 Fanon 37 Argot 16 Last word of 62 Poor
38Aima---,"Ulysses" U.S.S.R. city 63 Poet's previous
Saturday 
17 Sheer; utter 39 Rare bird to 
8 p.m. Recital: voice/piano by Leslie Schneider and Julia 
18 Forty---41 Ocean motion 64 An anagram for 
Romary, Saint Mary's music majors. Little Theatre, Moreau 
19 Brother 42 Became dim asset Hall, Saint Mary's. 20 Wallis . 44 Outlying 65 Shapes of Simpson's film? 46 Sea anemones ogees 
22 Deportment 47 Incarnation of a 23 Ostriches' god 
DOWN
cousins 
49 Weaver of 24 Spirits baseball 1 Plant fiber 26 Copycat 50 Interdiction 2 Mother of Obed 29 Bumper, in 51 Bush's Secret 3 Of wrath: Lat. poker Service film? 
4 Carnival orators 5 Inuits 
MENU 
6 Thirsts -----------------------ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Diva's solo 
Notre Dame 
8 "Doktor 
Faustus" author
Meat Lasagna 
9 Rush activity on
Lemon Pepper CatfiSh 

campus
Vegetable Eggrolls 29 Peg 43 Tempts 52 Deck post
10 Sequences 
Vegetable Lo Mein Woffington's 45 Cuban dances 53 Hosea in the
11 Tramp's film?
Quiche Lorraine creator 46 Indemnify Douay Bible 12 Place for a new 
30 "Rosamond" 47 Habitation 54 Fruit puncheskite composer 48 Heroism 55 Advice, to13 Peter and Paul 32 Dart 49 Anthony and Shakespeare
Saint Mary's 21 BeteI, e.g. 
Clarissa 56 Prohibitionists Spicy Beef Melt 25 Announcement 
34 Kind of son 
35 Noted engineer

Cheese Ravioli word 
37 "--Woman,"

Chicken Pasta Salad Answers to any three clues in this 
1970 film 

Deli Bar 27 Author Paton puzzle are available by touch-tone 40 Steep 
28 Gene Siskel's phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each film? 42 Renounced minute). 
.. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES

Bedbug dinner theater 
MOVIE 


Friday 
Cushing Auditorium 8:00p.m. and 10:30p.m. $2 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

' > I I \ ' \ \ \ 

• ' ' \ \ ' \ \ \ ' • ·, -. \ :__ '1 '\ ' ~ ~ • ., ' " ... ' ~ ..
~ ' '. 1, ' 

' ~ ' ' ' \ ' \ :, ·.;. . .. \ \ \ \ \ \ ' '\ ~ ~ ' ' ' , -. ' ,... .' .. '; ~ " ' ... ' ·. 
' \ I \ .. •\ '0 \ • \ "o \' 

By DAVE McMAHON 
Associate Sports Editor 
John MacLeod takes on a whole new set of worries, or challenges, as Notre Dame's coach: recruiting, graduation rates, disgruntled fans, and a hard-luck team. 
So what else is new? 
"There's pressure every­where," MacLeod said Thursday in New York. "There's pressure here, at Notre Dame and Chicago. But the biggest pressure is what I put on myself. I prefer it that way." 
Then he'll get what he wants. 
MacLeod tendered his ex­pected resignation as coach of the New York Knicks and said he will sign a five-year deal to head the Notre Dame program. The Irish made no formal an­nouncement but planned a Saturday press conference to introduce MacLeod. 
"It's no secret. He's going to be our coach," said sports in­formation director John Heisler. 
MacLeod replaces Digger Phelps, who resigned on April 15 after 20 seasons with the Fighting Irish. 
"As much as I enjoy pro hall, I always felt that if a good college opportunity came along, I would be receptive to it," MacLeod said. "This was a good opportunity and I was re­ceptive." 
The Irish post puts him back into college coaching after 18 years with the pros. 

The move leaves him in charge of a team that finished the past season 12-20, some­I' times played below its ability and sat out the NCAA tourna­
' 
\: 
Sports
page 28 Friday, May 3, 1991 
Macleod to be named coach of Notre Dame hoo s 
ment for the first time since 1984. 
The Notre Dame job also puts MacLeod in an unaccustomed squeeze: balancing Notre Dame's public emphasis on academics and the pressure of producing a successful squad that draws television money. 
All 54 players who finished four years of eligibility under Phelps graduated. Despite that success, Phelps retired after 20 years following only his third losing season at Notre Dame, but a year of declining atten­dance and revenue. The circumstances raised questions among colleagues about the university's priorities. 
"I hope that's not one of the reasons he left -not enough NCAA receipts in the till," said Notre Dame fencing coach Mike DeCicco, a former academic adviser to the basketball team, after Phelps retired last month. 
MacLeod, 53, will also re-en­ter the recruiting wars, depend­ing on his persuasive talents rather than the draft and an owner's pocketbook to draw high school talent from rivals like Duke and North Carolina. 
"We recruit the same people," said North Carolina coach Dean Smith. "Duke, us and Notre Dame. Lately, we and Duke seem to have been getting more of them." 
And MacLeod will find himself working under the shadow of Notre Dame's predominant football team, annual con­
tenders for the national cham­
pionship under coach Lou 
Holtz. 

Among Notre Dame's return­
ing players, MacLeod will find guards Daimon Sweet and Elmer· Bennett to be reliable point producers. Sweet led his teammates last season with a 
16.3 scoring average. Center Keith Tower averaged seven rebounds and 10.7 points a game. 
After that, the question marks outnumber the exclamation points. 
Forward LaPhonso Ellis, the team's most talented player, missed most of last season for bad grades. Ellis, a senior, also missed seven games his sopho­more year for academic ineligi­bility. 
The squad's four other re­turning players are sophomores who saw limited playing time. 
MacLeod will face contentious Irish fans who booed Phelps at home games, and then in grow­ing numbers stopped attending at all. 
With the exception of fresh­man Brooks Boyer, Irish bas­ketball players were unavail­able for comment. Others had mixed reactions about the hir­ing of MacLeod. 
Brooks Boyer, guard, fresh­man: 
"I was pretty shocked when I first heard it just because his name hadn't come up until a few days ago. rm really excited about it though. He's gonna be a fun coach to play for because he knows how to produce." 
Shaun Barry, senior, Grace: 
"I don't know very much about him. My initial reaction 
was that he wouldn't have the 
recruiting skills needed on the 
collegiate level, but he does 
have the skills to teach. I'm 
see MACLEOD I page 22 

' 

Irish women's tennis caps successful season against tough schedule 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 
The 1991 spring season was one of great accomplishments for the Notre Dame's women's tennis team as it continued its development as a national power. 
The Irish achieved their first­ever ranking in the preseason poll, remaining in the top-25 the entire season, and currently hold down the 23rd position. The team compiled a 16-9 record in the spring against a brutal schedule that included 12 ranked teams, and saw season-long individual performances worthy of invitations to the NCAA tournament. 

Establishing themselves quickly, the Irish streaked to six straight wins to open the season, including their first­ever win over regional-rival Wisconsin, 6-3, and an 8-1 pounding of then 17th-ranked South Carolina. Losses followed to national powers Indiana and William & Mary, as the Irish dropped six of their next nine. 
After falling to then 12th­ranked Texas 7-2, in a match much closer than the score indicates, the Irish strung together five wins before dropping two heartbreaking 5-4 contests to BYU and Utah. Victories in those contests might have pushed the Irish into the top-20 and possibly to an NCAA tournament birth. 
Finishing the season on a high note after defeating Wake Forest, a vote-getter in the top­25 poll, the Irish could look back at a successful season, but with close losses that leave one wondering, "What if...?" All nine Irish losses came at the hands of ranked or near-ranked teams, and eight of them were on the road. The Irish only played on their home court ten times, posting a 9-1 record. 
Said Irish coach Jay Louderback, "We had a great 


This horse is man's Best Pal 
Kentucky Derby prosped Best Pal, with exercise rider Felipe Guerrera up, glides around the Churchill Downs track during a morning workout. The 117th running of the Kentucky Derby is Saturday. 
season, considering the schedule we faced. It will be nice if we finish in the top-25 when the final poll comes out." 
The Irish will be represented in the NCAA individual tournament by singles players Tracy Barton and Melissa Harris. Barton (23-12) finished third in the region, while Harris (31-6) came in fourth to secure the automatic regional bids. 
"It's great to be going back," said Barton, Notre Dame first back-to-hack tournament participant, "and I'm really excited. I'm very happy that Melissa got in also. It should be lots of fun." 
Added Harris, a first-time 
participant, "It's great to be in a group of people like that, to play with the best. You can't just be satisfied to get there, though. You still have to go out and play." 
The first doubles tandem of Barton and Christy Faustmann, ranked 18th nationally, are tied for second in the region with Wisconsin's number-one team. A national committee will vote on Friday to decide who receives the automatic regional bid. Should the Irish not get the bid, they may still receive an invitation on the strength of their ranking. 
see/TENNIS page 24 

Bayliss, Williams, Ismail win Observer accolades 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 

As the year draws to a close, the Observer sports staff has gathered together to vote in yet another poll. The annual Moose Krause Awards go to the male and female Athletes of the Year and the Knute R'lckne Award is given to the Coach of the Year. 
This year's winners are Raghib lsmail, Tanya Williams, and men's tennis coach Bob Bayliss. 
Ismail was given the award for his achievements on the football field and on the track. After running track freshman year and sitting out his sopho­more year, he came back to set the school record in the 55 me­ter dash. Ismail also took sec­ond in the race at the NCAA Indoor Championships. 
Junior David DiLucia, last year's winner, finished second in the men's catergory behind Ismail. DiLucia is currently ranked second in the nation in collegiate tennis and has had an excellent year. He was named the Most Valuable Player of the prestigious Blue­Gray Tournament earlier this season. 
Junior Joe Binkiewicz, cap­tain of the Irish baseball team, frnished third in the voting. 
Tanya Williams was honored as the female athlete of the year after an extremely suc­cessful season on the Irish swim team. The sophomore became Notre Dame's first All-American 
see ACCOLADES I page 25 
..... 








