~ --~---~-~---------------­

FRIDAY , APRIL 19, 1991 
VOL. XXIII NO. 131 . ,: i · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER-SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MAR\"S 1 -••
. . . . . 
SUFR group proposes third party arbitration 
By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
At a press conference Thurs­day evening, Students United for Respect (SUFR) announced that Michael Nelson, national college and youth coordinator for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), will arrive on the Notre Dame campus today to conduct "a fact-finding mis­sion." 
SUFR member Fred Tornbar said that Nelson, who was con­tacted by the Notre Dame branch of NAACP, will meet with student leaders and with University President Father Edward Malloy. 
Reading from a prepared statement, Tornbar also said 
• 
Malloy's statement I page 5 

• 
Student complaint 1 page 5 


that SUFR submitted a proposal 
for third party arbitration to 
Malloy on Thursday. 

Nine members of SUFR met Thursday at 12:45 a.m. in Mal­loy's room in Sorin Hall with Malloy. Also present were Stu­dent Body President Joseph Blanco, Father Richard Warner, counselor to the President's Office, and Roland Smith, executive assistant to the President. 
Blanco said that although they didn't come to any real agreement at the meeting, "they carne to a better understanding of why they couldn't get to any agreement." 
At the meeting, SUFR mem­ber Joe Wilson said the coali­tion called for direct negotia­tions, which he defined as "an active stance toward meeting our demands." 
In a statement Thursday, Malloy said that the group would be granted official recognition by the University "on the same day on which the group presents an appropriate request for recognition." 
However, at last night's meeting, Wilson said, Malloy said that he was "unwilling to negotiate'" with SUFR, even if the group was granted official recognition. 
Therefore, Tombar said, SUFR will not apply for recog­nition as an official student or­ganization because, he said, official recognition would be "useless" to the coalition's cause. 
At the end of the meeting, Tornbar said, both students and the administration agreed to consider "an alternative method of resolution." 

As an alternative, Tombar said, SUFR gave to Blanco a letter at 2 p.m. Thursday to be delivered to Malloy. The letter requested the administration to allow "a third-party arbitrator to aid in resolving the present predicament," according to Tombar. 
The letter requested a re­sponse from Malloy by 3 p.m. today. 
Tornbar said he feels opti­mistic that Malloy will accept the proposal for the arbitrator, calling it "a less confrontative method of resolution." 
However, Tombar said that if Malloy does decline the pro­posal, "we will investigate other options." 
Tornbar stressed that SUFR is an open coalition of students from varying ethnic back­grounds who are committed to enriching the cultural diversity of the University. 
Tornbar said that SUFR does not plan to hold any more events like the sit-in held at the Registrar's Office Wednesday. "We really regret that things had to come to that level in order to get the Administra­tion's attention to focus on these issues," he added. 

Prepping for the Regatta 
S~udents got a chance to sharpen up their sailing techniques Thursday on Saint Mary's Lake, just in time for the upcoming F1sher. Regatta. However, students participating in the Fisher Regatta Saturday will have a greater challenge--they'll be operat1ng boats they've constructed themselves out of wacky materials ranging from plastic coke bottles to beach balls. 

SEA announces Earth Day plans 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON 
News Writer 

Students concerned about the destruction of 
the environment can go to the Fieldhouse Mall on 
Sunday to celebrate Earth Day '91. 
Joe Minadeo, the coordinator of the event, said 
the theme of the event is "Make Everyday Earth 
Day," and the Students for Environmental Action 
(SEA) has organized the event to promote this 
theme. 

"We are going to try to change attitudes about energy consumption," said Minadeo. "The basic theme is what you can do. We are encouraging respect for the Earth and other humans." 
The group has organized a full day of events starting with a mass at the Grotto on Sunday at 10 a.m. After, there will be tables set up on the Fieldhouse Mall where people can obtain information on what they can do to save energy. 
There will be bands playing throughout the day but the main focus will be on educating students about the problems of the environment. 
"We planned to make it fun but we (also) want to make it informative," said Minadeo. 
This is only the second time Earth Day has been celebrated at Notre Dame, but Amy Jenista, president of SEA, said the group plans to make this an annual event. 
Jenista also said the group is trying to raise awareness about the problems which are affect­ing the environment. She said other groups such 
see EARTH I page 8 


Minority visitation weekend begins today 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
Approximately 100 students of color who have been ac­cepted to the University will visit today through Sunday as part of the Office of Under­graduate Admissions Spring Visitation Weekend for minority students. 
This is the fifth year for the visitation weekend, according to Michael Swanson, Notre Dame sophomore and a recruitment coordinator in the Admissions office. 
The weekend is designed to "allow those that might not be able to make the visit" to view Notre Dame, and to "help them decide what to look for in a college," he said. 
Approximately 65-80 percent of the students who participated in the visitation weekend over the last five years enrolled in the University, according to Mike James, assistant director of Undergraduate Admissions. 
One hundred-fifty admitted students from across the coun­try were invited to attend the weekend program, which is all­expenses paid for the visitors. Costs for travel, housing, meals, and activities is part of the budget for Undergraduate Admissions, according to Laura Brown, recruitment coordinator and Notre Dame junior. 
Brown said that the main goal for the weekend is to present a realistic picture of life at Notre Dame to prospective students. "We're trying to make things as realistic as possible," she said, "and to incorporate activities that most Notre Dame students would do." 
Activities planned for the weekend include watching the movie, "Dances with Wolves," a dance in Theodore's, and bowl­ing, she said. 
Part of being realistic with the visitors is alerting them about the concerns being expressed 
by current minority students, 
according to Brown and 
Swanson. 

They said they do not believe Wednesday's sit-in by members of Students United for Respect (SUFR) will adversely affect the chances of the visiting students attending Notre Dame. Many of the hosts and hostesses for the visitors are members of SUFR, which is "fine" according to Swanson. 
Swanson said he and Brown are asking the student hosts to "be honest" with the visitors about the current status of mi­nority students at the Univer­sity. 
But Swanson stressed that being honest does not mean telling only one side of the story. "We're not trying to hide anything from the students," he said. 
Brown added that she hopes minority students will express positive aspects of their experi­ence at ND. "I know that there 
can be changes made, but there 
are still minority students here 
that are happy," said Brown. 
Today, the students will meet with administrators, rectors and rectresses to discuss stu­dent and resident life. Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy will also speak with the student visitors, Brown said. 
"He's always been really en­thusiastic about speaking with the students," she said of Mal­loy's past experience with the program. 
Student visitors will also have an opportunity to meet with all of the ethnic organizations on campus, as well as representa­tives from ROTC, chemical engineering, Campus Ministry, and Students for Environmental Action. 
"We feel that it is an impor­tant part of the weekend to let the students know that they should get involved ... that they 
see VISIT I page 7 

Celebrate Earth Day today and everyday. 
Please recycle 
The Observer requests that readers continue their recy­cling efforts by placing this and every newspaper in ap­propriate bins. The Observer also asks members of the community to show their support for conservation is­sues by participating in activ­ities during Earth Day on Sun­day. 

page 2 Friday, April 19, 1991
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Championship 
sacrificed to flashy chalking 
With the the 1990 football season long since ------­forgotten and the 1991 team beginning to take 
David Kinney
shape, I have taken it 
Assistant
upon myself to address a 
News Editor
serious controversy sur­rounding the program. 
In 1990, Notre Dame went 9-3, finishing well below the expectations of the team, the students, and, in turn, the entire world. 
Analysts have picked through the rubble of the season in attempts to discover why Raghib Ismail failed to bring home the Heis­man Trophy (obviously an over-rated, bogus, media-controlled award after the shocking presentation to a quarterback from BYU who racked up far too many passing yards, as ev­idenced by almost three dozen interceptions and a trouncing by the hotbed of football tal­ent, the Hawaii Rainbows), why Chris Zorich, (possibly the greatest player ever to don the NO uniform) fell to a knee injury halfway through the season, and, most importantly, why the Irish failed to win the National Championship, allowing Colorado to "bring home the Orange Bowl." 
Forget the sport writers conclusions. I've got the answers. Primitive end zone chalk­ings. 
Why did the caretakers of Notre Dame sta­dium feel that they could take the liberty of departing from tradition without facing any repercussions? Rather than the traditional diagonal chalkings, one now finds white NOs painted in the corners of the end zones. A travesty. 
These NOs were the root of all the problems encountered by the Notre Dame football team in 1990. The evil spirits procured by each flashy NO in the end zones contributed to the two home losses -the first in three years. 
Note that Derrick Brown failed to catch a pass for a game-winning touchdown in the final seconds of the Stanford game, as he was standing directly over the blinding inter­locking NO. 
In turn, miracles happened opposite the end zone NOs. For example, Adrian Jarrell caught the go-ahead touchdown to win over Michigan and Greg Davis (Clipping? an abso­lutely preposterous claim) forced the 'Canes to fumble in the final minutes on the side op­posite the NOs. 
What's next? Increase the size of the sta­dium by erecting orange scaffolding, a-la the Vol-dome? A giant green leprechaun stretching between the 20-yard lines? Kelly green clovers on the helmets for good work? Names on the jerseys? The institution of a full-scale passing game? 
I want heads. Those responsible for this mockery should be proclaimed a true 'Cane and never be allowed to step onto the hal­lowed grounds of the Notre Dame stadium ever again. The NOs in the end zones must be removed and primitive end zone chalkings must be reinstituted. 
We cannot allow the tradition of the foot­ball program, the stadium, the University and traditions fostered by legends like Rockne and Leahy, to be defiled. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Thursday's Staff 
News 
Frank Rivera Circulation 
Siobhan McCarthy Scoreboard Bill O'Rourke 
Rich Mathurin 

Matt Novak 
Accent 
Meredith McCullougt Production Viewpoint 
Charmaine Martinez Melissa Cusack Michael Krause 
Michelle Devers Cheryl Moser 
Shonda Wilson Graphics 
Systems . Steve Burgun 
Sports Chris Caracaolo Ann-Marie Conrado 
Rene Ferran Edouard Beauvais Michael Muldoon 
Rolando de Aguiar Jack Frost 
Rich Kurz 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation perio.:ls. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
INDIANA 

Professor acquitted of sexual slaying 
• NEWPORT, lnd.-A university professor found innocent of arranging a homosexual bondage murder for his own sexual pleasure says he's eager to get back to teaching and elated at being free after four months in jail. Jurors deliberated about seven hours before finding Little innocent of the December 1982 slaying of Steven Agan, whose stabbed and gutted body was found in a field near this western Indiana town. Little's attorneys urged jurors not to convict Little because it was disclosed during trial that he was a homosexual. Dennis Eyler, who lived rent free at Little's Terre Haute home from 1975 to 1983, testified that he and Little went looking for a victim after Little suggested they kill someone for sexual pleasure. They picked up Agan and took him to an abandoned shed, where he was bound and gagged. Then he and Little stabbed Agan repeatedly with a knife. He said Little photographed the attack. 

OF INTEREST 
•ISO's 
spring picnic will take place today, starting at 4 p.m. at Holy Cross Field . 

•The 
Muslim Students' Association invites all in­terested members of Notre Dame community to join in watching "The Message," at 5:30 p.m. today. This movie depicts the life and times of the Prophet Muhammed, and serves as an excellent introduction to Islam. A Muslim dinner will also be served. 

•Three 
graduate student recitals will be presented this weekend. Today, Tim Zifer will present a trumpet recital at 5 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. Special guests will include the University Brass Quintet and Chamber Orchestra. Sunday at 2, Michelle Laiberta will present a violin recital. also at the Annenberg Audito­rium. Kevin Vogt will round out the weekend at 8 p.m. Sunday night with an organ recital at Sacred Heart Church. 


•1991 Fisher Hall Regatta will be take place to-
MARKET UPDATE YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April18, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 
{} 0.95
217.41 Million 212.26 

S&P COMPOSITE 388.46  JJ,  1.99  
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS  
2,999.26  ""  5.20  
PRECIOUS METALS  

GOLD i) $ .55 to $361.80/oz. SILVER i} 7.8¢ to $4.087/oz. 
FORECAST: Cloudy and cooler -~..·> ..t today, with a 60 percent chance of .u.-..::·~=·:·>>·:·:··· showers. Highs of 
50s to be predicted. 
City Athens Atlanta Berlin Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft. Worth Denver Detroit 
· . :: -: Honolulu 
~-ililf/1//!S::::; ·· ::: :: Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Miami Beach Moscow New Orleans New York Paris Philadelphia Portland, Ore. 
Rome 
St. Louis San Francisco South Bend Tokyo Washington, D.C 
H  L  
73  59  
82  60  
45  25  
46  40  
55  37  
83  60  
54  39  
53  35  
82  70  
88  67  
64  46  
48  39  
67  50  
64  48  
82  71  
50  39  
71  63  
51  45  
50  32  
57  47  
67  43  
61  54  
68  57  
62  49  
60  37  
77  64  
63  53  



WORLD 

Jordan welcomes Baker visit, talks 


•AMMAN, Jordan Jordanian officials are privately encouraged by the latest steps toward Middle East peace taken by Secretary of State James Baker. Guarded optimism is the result of the speed in which Baker has returned to broker a peace between Israel, the Palestinians 
and nearby Arab nations. Meanwhile, a senior Western diplomat confirmed that the United States has dropped "regional conference" in its reference to a proposed meeting between the Jewish state and the Arabs. "The U.S. no longer insists on zcalling the proposed peace conference a regional conference," the diplomat said. "It will simply be known a 'peace conference' from now on." Renaming the conference, which the United States and Israel agreed to during Baker's last visit, indicates that a middle ground is being sought between Arab and Israeli views. 
morrow April 20 on Saint Mary's Lake. Picnic lunch will be served from 11 a.m.-1:30 p.m. NDH will be closed. Races will begin at 12 p.m. Regatta cups will be given out to the first 1500 people arriving_ Raindate is Sunday, April 21. 
•An undergraduate piano recital will be given by Carla de Castro on Saturday. The recital will begin at 2:15 
p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium and will include works by Bach, Beethoven, Chopin and Debussy. 
•A 
special Earthday Mass will be held at 1o a.m. at the Grotto this Sunday, April 21. The celebrant will be Fa­ther McDermott. In case of rain, the mass will be held at the same time in Lewis Hall. 

•Attention 
seniors who want to teach in Japan; Come to the Center for Social Concerns on Monday, April 22, from 12-5 p.m., or Tuesday, April 23, from 10 a.m.-12 p.m. to get more information and interview. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1775: The American Revolutionary War began with the Battles of Lexington and Concord. 

• 
In 1910: After weeks of being viewed through telescopes, Halley's Comet was reported visible to the naked eye in Curacao. 

• 
In 1951: Gen. Douglas MacArthur, relieved of his command by President Truman, bade farewell to Congress, saying, "Old soldiers never die; they just fade away." 

• 
In 1982: Astronauts Sally Ride and Guion Bluford became the first woman and first black to be tapped for 


U.S. space missions. 



Friday, April 19, 1991 The Observer 
page 3 


AP Photo

Railroad Strike 
United Transportation Union strikers Bob Christopher, a switchman with CSX, left, Tom Lacker, an engineer, center, and Robert Marshall, a switchman walk a picket line Wednesday in front of the CSX railroad yards in Atlanta as a fellow worker drives by to find a parking space near the picket line. 

Leckey stresses courage in women 
By LYNN O'DONNELL News Writer 
Creativity must have struc­ture, Dolores Leckey said in the seventh annual Madeleva Lec­ture in Spirituality at Saint Mary's College Thursday. 
In her discussion of "Women in Creativity," Leckey stressed that women must have the courage to move ahead in the midst of despair. 
She is both an author and ex­ecutive director of the Secre­tariat for Laity and Family Life for the National Conference of Catholic Bishops (NCCB). 
Leckey stated hard work and preparation are the structure that will facilitate creativity. 
Leckey downplayed ambition and stressed generosity as key to a healthy existence. She ex­amined women's roles in three areas: convent, domicile, and 
f 
·-------­

• 
Caught with your pants down again!
I J\ Lot Of Clnek ( ~ Fo The Bnek. 
,-;,J?Y~ CbariJroiled Chidren 
'-;.:;.{ :• \ A boneless, charbrotled breast I ::::r-J ~·served with sauce and rice or potato 
~----ffiJ lexkanCbiden 
/' -A charbrotled, boneless breast topped with onions, tomatoes, cheddar, salsa. With rice or po!ato. 
~
·~====~~~~~~~
A charbroiled, boneless breast topped • 
• with grilled pineapple, w;h rice. ~ ~~ 
Attention Seniors 
~~ 
1


• CbideiTellders / ~( jD 
Boneless breast fillets, fried ~ ~ ~ l 
*StaiiQgR£ gW~;;;m-ool~~----­
$4.99 Abo~:ed ,~-~~,\~.
chicken breast. ""'-~ \ Available at participating locations. A dieter's delight fJ_f( }\ \ \ • ·'-. \ 
Prices may vary. l ~\ "'-.. 

CbiekenStirFry 

Marinated breast strips sauteed with vegetables. With teriyaki sauce and rice. 

Dinners include 

• S!t~~DinneEl':rs~ ~~ i 
303 Dixie Way Sou:."~::~~:nd ean~s t 
\,__________.._--.------~--­
------------~ ----~~--~ 
the women's movement. 
Leckey suggested that women of the convent have a passion for form. Their faith, she said, is supported intellectually and spiritually within the religious community. Through the struc­ture of prayer and solitude these women, according to Leckey, are able to sustain a relationship with God. Their ef­forts, she said, are seen is soup kitchens, day care and teach­ing. 
When Leckey addressed the concept of domicile she used the example of a quilt which "expresses the great moments of life." A quilt, she said, holds the records of families, can be handed down to future genera­tions and is ever-changing with the different fabrics. She con­cluded that the quilt as a sym­bol of life can take many shapes 
-

and forms. 
In Leckey's discussion of the women's movement, she called upon Florence Nightingale to illustrate the need to go beyond the boundaries of social re­strictions. "Men would ask 'Why do women faint so much?' Nightingale replied, 'Nonsense, they're bored to death.' " 
Leckey invited the women of the historical parlors to join the woman's movement of today. She implored woman to immerse themselves in caring for the earth, building better communication between men and women and aiding the plight of the children. 
Leckey concluded by saying that self-direction and courage will be useful to women of to­day, who "are studying in Boston, Berkely and I dare say South Bend." 
JHJAIPJ?V TI (8fclhl IP~itirncc:Ik fR@lbnrm$@rruY
• 



'Huge reservoir of strength' goes untapped in America 
By ANNMARIE ZELL News Writer 
There is a "huge untapped 
reservoir of strength" of Amer­
icans supporting traditional 
family values, according to 
Philip Lawler, director of public 
affairs for the Catholic League 
for Religious and Civil Rights. 
Lawler regrets that the 
movement which was appar­
ently successful in the early 
eighties with "the Reagan revo­
lution" has suffered several 
setbacks in accomplishing its 
goals. 
Lawler's lecture, "Toward 
Building a Family Rights 
Movement" describes these 
supporters of "traditional" or 
"family" values as Americans 
who, "are looking to preserve 
their birth rights. They feel 
that those which they cherished 
are being taken away." These 
supporters were spurred into 
action by the witness of ''our 
culture changing dramatically 
for the worse." 
Lawler cited three reasons for the setbacks in the "pro-family movement," as Lawler prefers to call it, however, more commonly known as the "traditional values movement." 
"The first problem was we didn't get the payoff from our politicians" who were elected on our issues, said Lawler, most notably the politicians as­sociated with "the Reagan revo­lution." 
"Our second mistake was we paid too much attention to the national picture, and not enough on the local level," said Lawler. 
"The third problem was the people of the movement are not the classic political types by na­ture," commented Lawler. Rather, they are "ordinary people who play with their kids at night." 
In addition, Lawler feels that autside sources have hurt the 
Last Visit to the Grotto and Baccalaureate Mass Tuesday, April 23 4:00pm Sacred Heart Church 
~­

(CMPUSMINISTRY 

movement's success. Lawler 
claimed that the media portrays 
the "pro-family rights" 
movement as radical. He 
claimed many news reporters 
covering the abortion issue are 
active pro-life supporters and 
have "clear conflict of inter­
ests." 
He also said that the police 
brutality toward peaceful oper­
ation rescue demonstrators is 
not properly publicized by the 
press. 
To prove his point, Lawler 
referred to a recent "American 
United for Life" poll, which 
ascertained that most Ameri­
cans feel that Pro-lifers are 
radical, while at the same time 
holding the same views as the 
pro-life movement. He ex­
plained this dichotomy on the 
press' treatment of their 
movement. 
Lawler also noted many tra­
ditional family value issues, the 
most controversial was abor­
tion. He said, "Everyone knows 
life begins at conception. It's 
human life. It's nof going to be 
a giraffe." , 
In reference to prayer in 
school, he said, "think of all you 
can do in school, but you can't 
pray." 
Lawler also investigated the issue of separation of church and state. He expects that "in the future you'll see a great de­bate on what should children be taught in school? Education is fundamentally religious." 
Lawler said that the "pro­family movement" could suc­ceed in the future if the individ­uals supporting the movement "combine political savvy and the spiritualism that moved them in the first place." He also emphasized the impor­tance of support for the local level. He added that the move­ment must be "grass-roots" based in order for it to succeed. 
Lawler's lecture was spon­sored by the Student Union Board. 

American Red Cross 
FREE 
TANNING 

I.Buy 4 * ~sion~t the7egula~I price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 1and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 1 Get6FREE GETTHE~EA~ 
lt.T~~~~;;~ 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO vtNTlJA.!: GRAPE AD. MISHAWAKA 
277-7~ 
Dally 9-8 Sat. 9-6 • Sun. 11· 


page 4 The Observer 
Link awarded Kenna service award 
Special to The Observer 
David Link, Joseph A. 
Matson Dean of the University 
of Notre Dame Law School, 
will receive the Howard 
Kenna, C.S.C. Award for 
service to the University and 
the Congregation of Holy 
Cross. 
"David Link's contributions 
to the University and to the 
Holy Cross Community are as 
numerous as they are signifi­
cant," said University 
President Father Edward 
Malloy. "He has been a 
creative dean and ad­
ministrator, a driving force be­
hind the University's involve­
ment in the Center for the 
Homeless, and a trusted friend 
and advisor." 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1970, Link has been dean of the University's Law School since 1975. He is Notre Dame's longest serving dean and second in seniority among American law deans. 
In September, 1990, he was named inaugural president of the University of Notre Dame Australia (NDA), the first Catholic university in that 

David Link 
country. He will begin a leave of absence from the Law School in July to take up residence in Fremantle, Western Australia, the site of the NDA campus. 
Link graduated from Notre Dame in 1958 and received his law degree from the University in 1961. Before joining the Notre Dame faculty, he worked in the Kennedy Administration as a senior partner in the Chicago law firm of Winston & Strawn. 
As dean he has continued to teach, concentrating on the ethics of the legal profession, international human rights and the rights of the poor and homeless. 

He is one of the founders of South Bend's Center for the Homeless, president of the Council of Providers of Services for the Homeless (COPOSH) and a member of the executive board for the Center for the Homeless. He is chairman of the Indiana State Ethics Commission and a board member of JustLife, a political action committee which espouses a consistent life ethic. 
Link is an authority in the fields of computers, law and the economics of law practice. He is also co-author of three books on taxation and numer­ous articles. 
The Rev. Howard J. Kenna, 

C.S.C. Award, established in 1988, memorializes a former provincial superior of the Indi­ana Province of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross. 
Father Kenna worked at Notre Dame between 1936 and 1950 as a mathematics teacher, residence hall prefect, assistant director and director of studies, and as the first vice president for academic affairs. 
Orchestra presents Mozart concert 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame University 
Orchestra will present an all­
Mozart concert at 8 p.m. on 
Thursday, May 2, in Washington 
Hall to recognize the bicen­
tennial year of the composer's 
death. 
The program features Piano 
Concerto No. 20 in D minor, K. 
466; and symphony No. 31 in D 
major, "Paris," K. 297. The 
concert is free and open to the 
public. 
Guy Victor Bordo will con­
duct the orchestra. Faculty 
member William Cerny will be 
featured as a piano soloist, and 
smaller student ensembles will 
also perform chamber works of 
Mozart. 
Bordo is currently pursuing 
his doctorate in orchestral 
conducting at Northwestern 
University. In addition to his 
position as orchestra conductor 
at Notre Dame, he has been 
music director of the New Eng­
land Symphony Orchestra since 
its debut concert in 1988. 
He was also recently ap­
pointed resident conductor of 
the North Suburban Symphony 
Orchestra in Lake Forest, Ill., 
and chamber orchestra conduc­
tor at the Univsersity of 
Chicago. 
From 1983 to 1988 was the 
assistant professor of music at 
Plymouth State College in Ply­
mouth, N.H. While in New 
Hampshire, he also served as 
music director of the Lakes Re­
gion Symphony Orchestra and 
of the New England Wind 
Ensemble. 
In 1987, Bordo was a con­ducting fellow with the New Hampshire Music Festival Orchestra and studied with mu­sic director Thomas Nee. He completed his bachelor's and master's degrees in music at the University of Michigan. He has also studied conducting with Gustav Meier of the Tan­glewood Music Center; Carl St. Clair, assistant conductor of the Boston Symphony Orchestra; and Victor Yampolsky at Northwestern University. 
Cerny is a professor of music at Notre Dame and served as chair of the music department between 1972 and 1981. He was previously on the faculty of 
the Eastman School of Music 

from 1959 to 1972. 
As a young performer, Cerny won the highest award given by the Music Education League of New York and the National Teachers Guild, appearing sev­eral times as soloist with the Little Orchestra Society of New York under Thomas Scherman. 
After completing his under­graduate and graduate studies at Yale, Cerny worked as a pro­fessional accompanist out of New York City between 1954 and 1959. He toured the U.S. with such artists as cellist Aldo Parisot, international concert comedienne Anna Russell, pan­tomimist Angna Enters and the Columbia Artists' male concert quartet, The Revelers. 
In 1968, Cerny developed his "Explorations into Piano Liter­ature" for presentation to col­lege and university audiences throughout the country. One result of these concerts was his series of weekly radio programs broadcast for years over the National Public Radio network. 
Through his extensive per­forming and teaching experi­ence, Cerny developed an extensive chamber and solo repertoire, including the complete 62 Haydn sonatas, the 19 Mozart sonatas, the complete 32 Beethoven piano sonatas and 36 of the standard works of literature. 
Since his appointment at Notre Dame, he has maintained an active performing schedule that has included performances as soloist and as chamber mu­sician, both on campus and at other colleges and universities. He has made five guest appear­ances with the Chicago Sym­phony string quartet. 
Cerny has made more than 65 recordings of the solo piano lit­erature (more than 165 titles), which are now available for college and university libraries throughout the country. His series of radio programs con­tinues to be broadcast weekly by stations across the country. 
~··································--································ 
The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. • • 
an essential ingredient in your career planning strategy 
• 
Get a great summer job or work during breaks in corporate Chicago. 

• 
Bridge the gap between school and first time career placement. 

• 
Experience the wide variety of corporate environments in Chicago. 

• 
Receive skill development for automated corporate environments. 

• 
Receive career counseling. 

• 
Participate in competitive employee benefit and bonus program. 


The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. • Chicago •312-372-4500 

cllice
fOil TEMPOfU,.IEI ..........1£ 



Amtrack attendant Karl White assists passengers from the Coast Starlight after it was halted in Oakland Wednesday by the nation­wide rail strike. The Starlight was en route from Seattle to Los An­geles. Amtrak passengers boarded busses to continue their trip. 
.· 

Friday, April19, 1991 The Observer 
The Observer/Joe Fabbre 

Jammin' with the Generics 
The Generics performed like a name brand band Thursday afternoon for "MacJam '91." The Generics will be performing again Sunday at the St. Ed's Charity Carnival at the Field House Mall. 
Fact-finding groups fight violations 
By CHRIS WILKINSON News Writer 
Fact-finding groups utilize moral-pressure in their fight to end human rights violations, according to Barbara Frey, ex­ecutive director of the Min­nesota Lawyers International Human Rights Committee. 
Frey's lecture, titled, "International Human Rights Fact-Finding: Moral Pressure, Mediation or Meddling?" fo­cused on three potential de­scriptions for human rights fact-finding. 
Fact-finding groups investi­gate reports of human rights violations by governments all over the world. The investiga­tion is done by travelling to each country and interviewing the victims, government offi­cials and anyone else connected with the violation, explained Frey. 
"Any human rights activist will tell you that the greatest tool in their kit is moral pres­sure," said Frey. Almost every country "cares about its inter­national image," she added. 
This concern for images leaves rights-violating govern­ments open to critical world­wide attention brought about by the fact-finding groups, ac­cording to Frey. 
For instance, Frey said, the United Nations has several means with which to pressure governments: confidential pres­sure, public declarations, inves­tigations and physical interven­tion on humanitarian grounds. 
Frey said that mediation "might be a possible new paradigm for human rights fact finding." The process, she said, would respect the parties 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Church 4th Sunday of Easter Saturday, April 20th 
5:00 pm Fr. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. Sunday, Apri121 
10:00 am Fr. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. 
11:45 am Fr. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 

This KID is 21 on the 20th! Happy Birthday Paul Shinn! 
involved and encourage them to come up with their own solu­tions. He said that govern­ments need to be assured that change would not occur overnight or without the con­sent of those involved. 
More often than not, fact­finding groups are greeted with guns rather than cooperation. Frey said that fact-finding committees only have words to fight for human rights, but governments have guns to back-up their positions. 
"If the accusation is that [fact­finding missions] are meddling by providing information that the government would prefer to be suppressed, then so be it," said Frey. 
According to Frey, the reports concerning the state of human rights coming out of various countries were accurate. Pressure must be maintained on the violating government until those reports show an improvement. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and the Center for Civil and Human Rights. 
page 5 

Malloy issues statement 
The Following is a statement issued by University President Father Edward Malloy Thursday concerning informal discussions held Wednesday andThursday with members of Students United For Respect (SUFR): 
Over the past two months Patricia O'Hara, vice president for student affairs at Notre Dame, has facilitated a series of meetings at which members of student government and other interested students have discussed issues involving cultural diversity at Notre Dame with various faculty and staff administrators. These discussions have concerned financial aid for minority students, faculty hiring, the composition of the curriculum, and other matters. 
The office of student affairs is the proper catalyst for these discussions, since these are issues of general concern to the student body and the entire University community. In fact, several members of SUFR have been participants in these discussions, though not as SUFR representatives since the group to date has declined to seek recognition as an official student organization. 
In addition, over the last several weeks I have met informally with small groups of interested students to discuss these issues. 
Formal discussion of issues relating to cultural diversity at Notre Dame will continue. I believe that SUFR should be a part of this process, but that requires that SUFR work through the established channels of student affairs as do all other recognized student groups. I have proposed the following framework to continue discussions concerning cultural diversity at Notre Dame and to enable SUFR to play an official role in future discussions: 
First, recognition of SUFR as an official student orgariization will be granted on the same day on which the group presents an appropriate request for recognition. 
Second, I will issue a substantive letter to the University community analyzing the University's present situation with respect to issues of cultural diversity, including both programs in place and areas where further efforts and actions are essential. This analysis and call to action will provide the basis for future discussions and programs. 
Third, representatives of the recognized SUFR organization will have guaranteed and welcomed participation in the discussions that flow from my letter. Of course, other student organizations, including student government, also will be represented. 
I believe this framework will allow the University community to move forward with discussions of the substantive issues related to cultural diversity and I hope that SUFR will elect to be an official party to those discussions. 
Student files harassment complaint against SUFR 
By CHRIS WILKINSON News Writer 
John Glassgow, a junior at Notre Dame, filed a harassment complaint against Students United for Respect (SUFR) with Notre Dame Security yesterday after an incident that occurred during the coalition's sit-in at the Registrar's Office Wednesday. 
Glassgow said he went to the Registrar's Office around 11: 10 
a.m. Wednesday to revalidate his I.D. Upon arriving at the of­fice, he said, he was verbally and physically harassed by the students participating in the SUFR sit-in. 
According to Glassgow, his legs were pushed and he was verbally assaulted as he tried to walk through the group of sit­ting students. 
..It seems to me that the ha­rassment was racially pro­voked .. .I felt I was being ha­rassed because I was white," Glassgow said. 
When Glassgow was eventu­ally able to enter the Registrar's Office, he said he was told by the secretary to come back at a later time because he could not be helped during the sit-in. 


Featuring the Best in College Alternative Rock 
~~Bringing You The Best in live Entertainment" 
THRU.-FRI. -SAT. FRIDAY: THE GENERATORS, 1Opm 
SATURDAY:FREDDYJONESBAND lOpm 

1 Mile North of Notre DaD\e on Emmons Rc»d
.____________________ in Georgetown Shoppinr; Center • 271-17Z7 _______. 
The Observer 

Friday, April1 9, 1991 
j ND awarded $1.1 million in grants 

Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received $1,154,657 in grants during March for the support research and various programs. Research funds to­taled $1,071,337, including: 

•215,034 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by Marvin Miller, professor of chemistry, on the synthesis and study of siderophores, analogs and bio conjugates. 

•$150,00 
from the U.S. De­partment of Energy for re­search in high energy physics by John LeSecco, associate pro­fessor of physics. 

•$114,000 
from the National Science Foundation for wave pocket studies of photodissoci­ation by David Tannor, assistant professor of chemistry. 

•$112,700 
from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by Eugene Ulrich, professor of theology, on vol­ume three of the biblical Qum­ran (Dead Sea Scrolls). 

•$88,407 
from the U.S. Navy for research on music and esprit for array signal process­ing by Yih-Fang Huang, associ­ate professor of electrical engi­neering, and Ruey-Wen Liu, Freimann professor of electrical engineering. 



•$80,000 
from the U.S. Air Force for research on quantum transport by Craig Lent, assis­tant professor of electrical engineering, Wolfgang Porod, associate professor of electrical engineering and others. 

• 
$79,416 from the U.S. Navy for research on the control of photochemical reactions by David Tannor, assistant pro­fessor of chemistry. 

•$65,000 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search on state selected ion re­action on surfaces by Dennis Jacobs, assistant professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 

•$60,800 
from the National Science Foundation for state spectroscopy research by Gre­gory Gellene, assistant profes­sor of chemistry. 

•$44,300 
from the U.S. Navy for EXPAS (extended x-ray ab­sorption fine structure) studies of semiconductor microstruc­ture by Bruce Bunker, associate professor of physics. 

•$44,180 
from Lily Endow­ment Inc. for research on "The Search for an American Catholicism" by Jay Dolan, di­rector of the Cushwa Center for the study of American Catholi­cism and professor of history. 

•$15,000 
from the National institute of Health for a minor­


ity high school student research apprentice program, adminis­tered by Mario Borelli, associ­ate professor of mathematics and director of special instruc­tional projects and activities. 
•$2,500 from the American Chemical Society for neutral­ized ion beam studies of hy­drides of dinitrogen by Gellen, assistant professor of chemistry. 
Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $5,000 from International Business Ma­chines for the IBM technical gifts program, administered by Gary Bernstein, assistant pro­fessor of electrical engineering. and Robert Minniti Jr.. associate professional specialist in electrical engineering. 
Awards for instructional program totaled $20,000 from the Coleman Foundation for the 1991 Coleman Foundation Medical Conference, adminis­tered by Morris Pollard, Cole­man director of Lobound Labo­ratory and professor emeritus of biological sciences. 
Awards for service programs totaled $58,320 from private benefactors for various pro­grams of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 
~S~M~C~h=o~st~s~~~~T~h~e~NOTRE DA~E AFRICAN 
Gentle Thursday 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Music, bubble-blowing, free food, handwriting analysis, and tarot card readings all took place at Gentle Thursday held on the Hagger Terrace at Saint Mary's. 
The day's festivities were part of the continuing celebration of Earth Week. 
Gentle Thursday, an idea that originated during the Persian Gulf War, was a day set aside to affirm life rather than death. It was also a day to play. 
"We are probably too serious most of the time," said Sister Mary Turgi of Campus Ministry, "that's how we get into con­flictual situations in the first place." 
The goal of Gentle Thursday was to give one a chance to play and not .be so serious about life. 
"We just want to make the day playful and happy; to make everyone feel young again," said Anne Hart, one of the or­ganizers of Gentle Thursday. 
Professor Ann Clark, chair of the department of philosophy, derived the idea from events that took place on her college campus during the Vietnam War. 
"She told us of the playful events they had on her campus in order to contrast the war," said Toni Olivieri, an organizer of the event. 
Members of the peace-sup­port group, peacemakers, the earth week committee and the women's studies department organized and sponsored the event which enjoyed a good turnout. 
"Almost everyone there really enjoyed it," said Renee Young. "We hope to be able to have similar events every other Thursday during nice weather in the future." 
We're Fighting FGr Your Life. 
&•aAmerican HeartV Association 
STUDENTS ASSOCIATION 
Presents 


A SALUTE TO WOMEN OF THE WORLD Featuring 

VINIE BURROWS 
•
In 

~.~Sister! Sister!" 
& 

ASPECIAL AFRICAN DINNER with AFRICAN & AFRO-CARIBBEAN MUSIC 
Saturday April 20, 1991, 6:30 pm to STEPAN CENTER 
S 5:00 PER PERSON $3:00 STIJDENTS 
Co·sponsors: Ojfiu oftlu Prowst, tfu 9tlin.ority St!Uknt Jlffairs, tfu (jrruluau Stutfent 1.1nion, tfu lnu17Ultional St!Uknt !Affairs ani tfu Jlfrican & Jlfrican·}(mtriaut Sttulits PrOIJram 
1:00 am 



Friday, April 19, 1991 
Nationwide rail worker's strike ends after one day 
Twelve people at estate during rape 

Love, JB & the 8-chick 
I~---------~--~-~---~--------~~-,
·.· M1chael H1mes 1s an exc1tmg lecturer and an mstghtful 
1
I I 

CELEBRATING 
THE VISION OF 
VATICAN II 
Rev. Michael J. Himes. Ph-D. 
1Please send copy(ies) Celebrating the NAME I I Vision ofVatican II at $6.95 ea. plus S 1.00 ship-I I ping for first and $.50 ea. addl. ADDRESS I 
1 PaymentS__enclosed. ZIP : 1
I Check payable to: I 
I d:1 ~ Resurrection Press, Ltd. 1 ~ r P.O. Box 248 D Check here to receive our I I Williston Pari<. N.Y. 11596 free catalog. 
L------------------------------~ 
theologian. Those who hear him in person or on tape never forget the experience. 
Richard P. McBrien 

Celebrating the Vision of Vatican II 
Michael Himes, PhD a 60 minute audiocassette 
In this stimulating and humorous presentation. Michael Himes draws from the great poets and theologians of the past to weave a historical review ofthe Church. Looking to the future. he issues an immense challenge: to continue the spirit of Vatican Council II "where everybody is invited to participate in the talk-in mutual love-motivated by hope and faith." 
Available at the student bookstore or order below. 
(AP)-Train crews expecting 
to picket were put to work in­
stead Thursday as the nation­
wide rail strike ended after one 
day, putting freight back in mo­
tion and allowing travelers to 
resume journeys. 
"We are getting back to nor­mal as quickly as possible," said Jim Johnson, spokesman in the Kansas City, Mo., office of Southern Pacific. 
Ron Superson, a radio opera­tor at a Conrail freight yard in Detroit, said a clear sign things were returning to normal was the traffic on the walkie-talkie pressed to his ear. 
"They're starting to yell at people," he said, smiling. 
The first CSX Transportation crew back to work Thursday had expected to picket, not work, said company spokesman Norm Going. The Roanoke Rapids, N.C., crew showed up at 3 a.m. EDT for picket duty. 
"We put them on a train," he said. 
Congress swiftly passed and President Bush early Thursday signed legislation to halt the strike by some 235,000 rail workers. The government in­tervened after railroad labor unions and major freight carri­ers were unable to reach a new contract despite three years of trying and a three-month cool­ing ofT period. 
The measure sets up an emergency board to deal with remaining issues such as work rules and conditions and would impose a final contract settle­ment within 65 days if labor and management fail to do so. 
"We're glad to be back to work," said Norfolk Southern 
employee J.T. Smith in Atlanta. 
"Now we just have to hope 
Congress can negotiate us a 
good contract." 
"It looks like we're going to get the short end of the stick again," said union official M.M. Winter in St. Paul, Minn. "People would have preferred that Congress keep their hands off, let the collective bargaining process work its course." 
The strike halted shipments of everything from coal to auto parts. It also disrupted most Amtrak passenger trains, ex­cept in the Northeast corridor from Washington to Boston, and some commuter services. 
Bob Schoenrock of the Broth­erhood of the Maintenance Way in Lincoln, Neb., said he was afraid union members might suffer a letdown after gearing up for the walkout that lasted only one day. 
"But the report I get back is that it's the best money they ever spent for missing a day's work," Schoenrock said. 
Amtrak spokeswoman Judy Jonas in Cleveland said service was expected to be back to normal within 12 to 24 hours of the strike's end. 
"It will take awhile to get equipment and crews back to where they need to be," she said. 
Heather Ryan, 19, of Laconia, N.H., was moving to Los Ange­les when she was stranded at Chicago's Union Station. 
"I'll have everything else shipped out there, but not by train," Ms. Ryan said. "I think I'll stick to flying from now on." 
The Observer 

Site of the sit-in 
Visit 
continued from page 1 
should become a part of the ND community if they decide to come here," Brown said. 
Visitors will be housed in residence halls with minority students who volunteered to serve as hosts. This year, over 140 students volunteered, which was "the most ever," Brown said. 
The prospective students are matched with hosts of similar ethnic background and/or geo­graphic area so they "will feel more comfortable in their envi­ronment," Swanson said. 
A committee of 11 students with administrative advisors decided on whom to invite from the almost 400 minority stu­dents admitted to the University for the 1991-92. Of those in­vited to attend the weekend visitation, many have been des­ignated as Notre Dame Schol­ars, Swanson said. 
Approximately 20 percent of the entering freshmen class is designated a Notre Dame Scholar, he said. The honor is "academically and financially coordinated," he said. 
Other factors influencing invi­tation to the weekend include the students' geographical area and whether or not the students admitted were early action ap-
The Administration Building was the site of a sit-in held by the Students United For Respect (SUFR) coalition Wednesday. Coalition members hope to meet with Malloy and a''third-party arbitrator." 
plicants. 
"Basically, the top minority students get invited," Brown said. 
Swanson, who attended the weekend when he was a prospective student, said the experience is invaluable in helping minority students make their college decision. He ap­plauded the efforts of Kevin Rooney, director of Under­graduate Admissions, in start­ing and increasing the program. 
"Kevin Rooney and his staff have made a great commitment to increasing the amount of minority students here," Swan­son said, "and I think this (weekend) is just one small aspect of what they're doing._" 
PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) ­About 12 people were at the Kennedy estate the night a 29­year-old woman says she was raped, and police have yet to in­terview most of them, a news­paper reported today. 
The Boston Herald, citing unidentified sources, said Palm Beach police didn't ask for a list of people who spent the weekend at the compound until Friday -13 days after the al­leged attack. 
The woman told police she was raped near the estate swimming pool on March 30 by 
page 7 

The Observer/File Photo 
William Kennedy Smith, a nephew of Sen. Edward Kennedy. Smith has denied any wrongdoing. He has not been charged. 
Detectives traveled to Wash­ington the weekend of April 6 to interview the senator and his 23-year-old son Patrick, a Rhode Island state representa­tive. 
Palm Beach police said Mon­day they had identified addi­tional witnesses and leads but refused to elaborate. The newspaper said police didn't try to contact other possible wit­

* Entering the College of Arts & Letters Need help with registration? 
Want a student's perspective? Come by the 
PEER ADVISING PROGRAM 
in the College Fellow's Office (210 O'Shag) 
Thursday, Friday, and Monday, from 2 to 4 .m. 
nesses until Wednesday. 
Nellie McGrail, a longtime Kennedy estate cook, was quoted as saying by The Miami Herald that she was at the es­tate the night of the alleged rape. She said at least 12 guests were at the home over the weekend. 
"I saw everyone all weekend and not a soul heard anything," she said. 
Police have not questioned McGrail because she has been hospitalized with a kidney ail­ment, she told The Miami Her­ald. 
,---­
-~----~-~----------------------~ 
( page 8 The Observer 
Friday, April19, 1991 
California judge rules that surrogate is legal mother 
SANTA ANA, Calif. (AP)-A judge ruled Thursday that a surrogate is the legal mother of a baby girl she bore for a now­estranged couple, denying the father's request for exclusive parental rights. 
''I'm overwhelmed. I'm happy," surrogate mother Elvira Jordan said after the ruling. 
Superior Court Judge Nancy Wieben Stock said she could fmd no evidence that Jordan in­tended to abandon her child when she gave it up to Robert and Cynthia Moschetta in May 
Earth 
continued from page 1 
as Pax Christi and a Native American group have been invited to participate because this is a global issue. 
"Environmental issues do not apply to one specific people," she said. "They affect every­one." 
Jenista and Minadeo said it is important that people try to be aware of their behavior when it comes to recycling and energy conservation. Minadeo said students should try to "take shorter showers and turn off lights." 
Minadeo also said that stu­dents should try to learn more about recycling and should become involved with the recy­cling effort here on campus and in their hometowns. 
"(You) can't avoid learning about this stuff," said Minadeo. "Get involved in your commu­nity recycling programs over the summer." 
Both Jenista and Minadeo said students should take some responsibility in their treatment of the environment. Jenista said students should think about their actions and "how it affects the environment," while Minadeo suggested that stu­dents precycle as well as recy­cle. "Think before you generate waste." 
The two students also sug­gested that students write let­ters to their Congressmen urg­ing them to think about the na­tion's energy policy. Jenista said the strategy that Bush proposed in February is "basically a none strategy." 
She said the policy decreases our dependence on foreign oil markets and increases the pro­duction of dom~stic oil but puts little emphasis on conservation which is what is important. 
Minadeo said anyone wanting more information on saving the environment can come to SEA meetings on Sunday's in the Center for Social Concerns or go to the library in the Center. 
! r ~ 
EARTH DAY 
I !: 

American 
Red Cross 

1990. Edie Warren, had argued that 
"In fact, the court finds to the Jordan had, in effect, aban­opposite," she said. "Elvira doned the baby by accepting a Jordan had indicated and fee and only visiting the child steadfastly maintained that she once since her birth. wanted the baby to go to an in­A hearing will be held to de­tact, stable home." termine custody and visitation 
Jordan acted responsibly and rights to the baby, named in the child's best interest when Marissa by the Moschettas and she allowed the Moschettas to Melissa by Jordan. take the newborn home on the The custody dispute started condition they remain together April 8 as a three-way battle, for at least a year and receive but the judge ruled that Mrs. marriage counseling, Ms. Stock Moschetta, 51, had no biological said. or legal relationship to the 
Robert Moschetta's attorney, nearly 11-month-old girl. 
The judge, however, said Mrs. Moschetta could seek visitation under the state's stepparent law. 
Robert Moschetta, 35, who was recognized by the court as the baby's father, sought sole parental rights and wanted le­gal parentage ruled out for his wife and Ms. Jordan. 
During the trial, Jordan, 42, testified that she was misled into signing an agreement giv­ing up her rights to the baby and that she only intended the Moschettas to raise her if their marriage was intact. 
The surrogate said she de­cided to seek custody after learning in November that the Moschettas had separated. 
Earlier Thursday, Harold La Flamme, the court-appointed attorney representing the child's interests, said Jordan should be named the legal mother because it would be "too risky" to give the biological father exclusive parental rights. 
COLLEGE LIFE CALLS FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA. 

IT'S TIME FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA~ 
Employment Opportunities Available. 
. 4.99 
. 
I

GET A LARGE PIZZA 
I WITH ONE TOPPING I 
FOR JUST $4.99 : 
II: -·~~~~q~~~-~~.1:1
-.appli:.tllo """""1:.";":-.~~":::..~~J:t.::::" carry las tlwl$20 DO whe<e ~ -·~t:,;-:..: ¥41%t~~ ~~"""Y DO
l----=·_______________.L. __________________ _l __________________ _j 
Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 1835 South Bend Ave. 289-0033 816 Portage Ave. 
©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 

THREE POINT -TWO CHEESE PLAY ·S7.9!i -PIZZAS~$4;00
-. . --.. -· --. ~ ~ 
GET A LARGE PIZZA 
GET TWO SMALL WITH YOUR THREE 
CHEESE PIZZAS FAVORITE TOPPINGS 1 FOR ONLY $4.00 l 
'*":;~;!~;t:~'~lll -·~;x!~~~~~~~~_Jjl® ~I
-eapplcible. ~·~~e:....~.~~~~ =""cany esslhan $2000 

-l 
The Observer 

Frida~ April 19, 1991 page 9 
Iraqi, U.S. commanders discuss refugee situation 
Transferred by air or overland to 
INCIRLIK AIR BASE, Turkey (AP) -U.S. forces scouted northern Iraq for new refugee camps Thursday, and set up their first meeting in the area with Iraqi officials. Turkish of­ficials warned that many more Kurds would die before they can be moved to their new homes. 
In Baghdad, special U.N. en­voy Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan signed an agreement with Iraq creating separate camps and designated way stations in the border area to help refugees wishing to return to their homes in Iraq. 
In contrast with the U.S. plan, which is to set up camps in northern Iraq that will be protected from Iraqi forces by U.S., French and British troops, the Baghdad plans calls for U.N. relief officials to work with Iraqi officials to distribute aid to the uprooted. 
U.N. 
Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar has said no 

U.N. 
peacekeeping troops will patrol the camps. because a new Security Council resolution would be necessary to authorize such troop movement. 


The Iraqi government said the U.S.-run camps were un­necessary and illegal. 
The agreement it signed Thursday does not establish 
COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
t.f!X}!JIV74A'.2> $1¥/eJO'ZI$ 
*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
4

1671 Riverside Drive CALL 233-2212 
liD®~IT ~®WI) 
dP£IT I1£tr~~ 
MOVING • AUTO • SPENDING MONEY SECURITY DEPOSIT • WARDROBE 
Seniors, when you graduate, you'll have expenses and we would like to help! We have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter ot_ employment when you apply to save time. 
NEW AUTO· 9.75°/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. YOU MAY QUAlfi Rll ANY OF H RILOWIC LOANS BASBJ In YB SIGNATillE. 
- MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your  
first year as part of this special offer.  
~  QUICK CASH·  13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this  
loan, you simply write a check!  
~  RELOCATION·  9.1 °/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to  
repay. You must also have our  
Mastercard and line-of-credit.  

Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Separate from the~ 
where the U.N. relief centers will be set up. It is believed they will be closer to the Turkish border than the camps U.S. forces are scouting now in northern Iraq. 
American troops -about 35 to 50 are in northern Iraq at any given time -so far have had no face-to-face contact with the Iraqi military, Pentagon spokesman Bob Hall said. 
The new commander of the 
U.S. relief effort for Kurdish refugees was to meet Friday in northern Iraq with an Iraqi military delegation to discuss ways to avoid any accidental conflicts during the operation. a military spokesman said. 
The U.S. commander. Lt. Gen. John Shalikashvili, was to travel from this base in southern Turkey to Zakho in northern Iraq for the meeting. according to the spokesman, Cmdr. John Woodhouse. 
A diplomatic source said ear­lier the meeting would be to help avoid clashes with the Iraqis. 
Iraq has been warned not to interfere with efforts to assist and protect the refugees. 
Iraq also took one more step Thursday toward putting the war behind it. The Iraqi Am­bassador to the United Nations said Iraq had given the United 
-
-~ 

Nations a detailed list of its chemical and biological weapons capabilities and nu­clear facilities. That was aimed at complying with a stringent 
U.N. resolution setting down terms or a permanent cease­fire. 
Hundreds of thousands of Iraqi Kurds fled into the moun­tains of northern Iraq after a rebellion in their traditional homeland was crushed by Sad­dam's forces in the wake of the Persian Gulf War. 
At the crude encampments in the rugged terrain along Iraq's borders with Turkey and Iran. up to 1,000 refugees are dying daily of hunger, disease and exposure, aid officials have es­timated. 
Officials expect that finding 

1 
I 
sites and building the new refugee centers will take up to 40 more days, and some say even those estimates are too optimistic. 
Mahmoud Yildirim, the Turkish commander of the huge ramshackle settlement at lsikv­eren. estimated that many more people would likely die in that period. 

Rare copy of medieval theological text 'Summa Angelica' given library 
Special to The Observer 
A rare copy of a medieval text on moral theology once publicly burned by Martin Luther has been given to the University of Notre Dame's Hesburgh library by A.L. Gabriel, professor and director emeritus of the University's Medieval Institute. 
The book . from Gabriel's private collection, is a first edi­tion of "Summa Angelica.. by the Franciscan priest, Angelo of Chivasso, Italy, printed in 1486 and reprinted 24 times in the next 14 years in Italy, France, Germany and Flanders. ex-communicating him, in an 
The treatise, which dealt with historic act of defiance of Rome practical moral problems and at Wittenberg, Germany, in was used by confessors and 1520. Luther derided the book church officials, covered such by calling it, "The Diabolic issues as concupiscence, drunk­Summa." enness and slander. The popu­lar book was publicly burned by The book joins the Library's Luther, together with the codex collection of nearly 80 incunab­of canon law and the papal bull ula (books printed before 1501). 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 

\Ji' ~l9.b.£>ill}n;t~ 

Viewpoint 
Friday, April 19, 1991
page 10 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Lisa Eaton  Gilbert Gomez  
News Editor ••.•••..••..••.••••....Monica Yant  Advertising Manager .•••..Julie Sheridan  
Viewpoint Editor ••••.••••••••..•..Joe Moody  Ad Design Manager •••••••..Aiissa Murphy  
Sports Editor ..........••... David Dieteman  Production Manager ..•..•...•.. Jay Colucci  
Accent Edltor•••...••••••••••..•.John O'Brien  Systems Manager •••.••...••..•..Mark Sloan  
Photo Editor .•••.•.•..•••.••••.••..••Eric Bailey  OTS Director •••••••.••••••••.••..Dan Shinnick  
Saint Mary's Editor ..•.......•. Emily Willett  Controller...••••••..••..••••••Thomas Thomas  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
It's time for Malloy and SUFR to get to work 
,l 
After a sit-in and several meetings between Students United For Respect (SUFR) and University administrators, including University President Father Edward Malloy, the University appears to be no closer to solving the concerns raised by the coalition. 
On Thursday morning select members of SUFR met with Malloy to discuss the demands and the sit-in. Later in the day SUFR sent a letter to Malloy requesting "written agreement from the administration to allow a third-party arbitrator to aid in resolving the present predicament." 
At first glance, the idea of having an arbitrator come to Notre Dame seems unnecessary. After further examination of this issue, it is clear that this is the best option. Task forces have been formed, dialogue has taken place, yet nothing seems to be happening. In typical Notre Dame fashion, change comes very slowly. 
In this case, the students aren't going to accept slow change. They want the University to listen and to act-now. The time for 
';\ 
discussion groups and task forces is over. It's time for the 
i, 
University to make some commitments. ­-
lj 
Malloy should agree to have an arbitrator come in and meet with 
( 
both the Administration and SUFR. This person, who must be a professional arbitrator and not a member of the ND/SMC community, will be able to most efficiently facilitate negotiation
\ 
between the University and SUFR and help the two groups reach a
i 
I 
mutually agreed upon solution. By the end of the academic year, a proposal should be drawn
~ 
fl 
up-a direct result of communication between University administrators and SUFR. This proposal must be a strict guideline for the University to follow in the next few years and be evidence of its commitment to cultural diversity. 
For this document to be truly effective, it must specify measures Notre Dame will take in making the school a better place for all students. Deadlines for action and specific goals must be included in this statement, which will essentially be an amalgamation of SUFR's demands and the University's position on these issues. 
Once the University lets the community know exactly where it stands in terms of cultural diversity. then students can leave school for the summer knowing their concerns will not be disregarded. And once SUFR shows that it is not insensitive to the University's position and is willing to be flexible to achieve its goals, the coalition can better focus its attention on the issues, and not on the administration. 
Then, in the fall, students, faculty, administrators and rectors can set about the business of making the proposals reality. 
Notre Dame has given its students the run-around long enough, and sit-ins only have limited effect. It's time to make real proposals for real changes here. Only then will everyone know where Malloy and the rest of the University stands on cultural diversity. 
DOONESBURV 
j l ~ 
l
1 
l 
I 


of former players were about what I had expected given the quality of the group. 
For the first time in almost forty years I am not proud of the University of Notre Dame and am glad to be retiring soon. 
Robert J. Waddick Associate Dean Arts and Letters 
April 16, 1991 Dear Editor: 

The treatment of Coach Phelps by the local media and by the University was abominable. The man spent twenty years of his life coaching at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. At his retirement, the leaders of the Athletic Department were not even present. No parting gift 
Dear Editor: 
SUFR. Students United For Respect. I think that everyone can agree that there is nothing more noble than students who are united for the respect of all students. but I honestly think that this is not the case at Notre Dame. I have personally spoken with many members of SUFR on an occasions and I am firmly convinced that some of what they are calling for is right and just; all students do deserve respect and personal recognition regardless of their particular race. That aside, I think that a message has sub­sequently been lost through some of the militant rhetoric that has become all too common here in recent months. 
I find it completely deplorable that a Notre Dame student can believe, much less write the fol­lowing inane statement which recently appeared in The Ob­server (April 19): "Most white students on this campus (and I emphasize most) are ignorant and are comfortable living in their ignorance."' That a fellow student can refer to other stu­dents in a subtly derogatory fashion (" .. most 'good' white Catholic Domers...") shows an incredible lack of respect for a 
was given for his long service. During the past year. the student body and basketball "fans" (and I use this term loosely) treated him poorly. One gets the impression that a decline in revenue to the University might have been a factor as opposed to a perfect graduation rate. The comments 
Racism in militant rhetoric hurts SUFR 
large number of students here on the part of the author. I think that if the word "black" were substituted for the word "white" in these statements there would most certainly be loud accusations of racism at Notre Dame. What do you think? 
I am an American (not a white-American, not an Italian­American, not an African­American. I am an American ) who is deeply concerned that the crusade for racial recogni­tion at Notre Dame is doing more harm than good. Most students would agree that Notre Dame is very homogeneous, but whose fault is that? I, personally am not responsible for any past injustices which may have occurred. nor do I like to be called a racist because I offer constructive criticism to so-called minority groups. I would just like to be shown the same respect that is being demanded by other students. 
Citing the letter already men­tioned, it is becoming more ob­vious to me that some of the relationships between different racial and social groups have deteriorated at Notre Dame. One of SUFR's goals back in December was to achieve some 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
sort of recognition from the administration and the student body that racial-recognition problems do exist. Well, many of those problems have been recognized, but at the expense of creating new problems. In­creasingly exclusionary behav­ior seems to be an unwanted result of the over-emphasis on racial identity, separation, and classification. 
It is with these thoughts in mind that I would respectfully like to ask the leadership of SUFR, and Notre Dame's ad­ministration to address the ob­viously racist letter written by Keith McCoy (The Observer, April 15). Racist literature of this type should not, and cannot be tolerated under any cir­cumstances. Racism is a two­way street and I am tired of being victimized as an "ignorant, 'good' white Catholic Domer." I hope that the administration, and more importantly the leadership of SUFR, will accept the challenge to rise up in the defense of the thousands of students offended by this blantant racial slur. 
Matthew Caito Carroll Hall April15, 1991 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The rain falls on the just and on the unjust fella, but mainly upon the just because the unjust has the just's unbrella.' 
Author Unknown 

·------------·------------­
Viewpoint

Friday, April19, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Croatia needs American su 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to explain or clar­ify in this letter the present situ­ation in Yugoslavia; reasons for the turmoil that we witnessed through the media. 
In 1987 my dream finally came through. Thanks to Digger Phelps and his family I was able to leave Yugoslavia and come to study at the University of Notre Dame. I 
always loved the USA. I was~~---~=== 
fortunate enough to be able to illiiil visit several times, but what for expressing his national really made me come was this feelings. These are just a few feeling of freedom that I was examples of what my fellow not able to get at home. My countrymen went through. country Croatia at that time A few years ago, I would be was part of intolerant, arbi-scared to write this letter be­trary, and brutal communist cause of a fear of the Yugoslav dictatorship -Yugoslavia. secret police. Today, Croatians Today, it still is. But for almost are so close to their dream ­a year now, we have had a new democracy and sovereignty, but democratic government for the Serbian hegemonists and com­first time in fifty years which munists with the powerful army will hopefully lead us out of that behind their backs are not will­unfortunate union. ing to let their "rich milk-cow" 
I am only in my twenties, but go. What bothers me the most even I witnessed and is that the big obstacle to our experienced many examples of goal is a part of the US Yugoslav rule, from simply government which is supporting being forced to take and accept Yugoslav unity even though only communist teaching in schools, Croatia, Slovenia and Bosnia not being able to sing patriotic and Herzegovina are western songs and having to be a oriented republics. member of the Communist Croatia itself is an ancient na­Party in order to get a job, to tion that had been organized the imprisonment of my uncle into an autonomous state since 

Revolving Mary wanted 
Dear Editor: 
I must write to comment on the letter about Mary's statue on the Dome (The Observer March 28). I wholeheartedly agree with the author's views and would like to announce a group I am forming. The group is called S.W.A.R.M.: Students Wanting A Revolving Mary. 
I mostly formed this group to demand equality with respect to important landmarks on campus. Mary's figure on the dome is our first and foremost goal. We feel her statue just furthers the inequality and injustices running rampant on our campus. And the fact that she faces south (where slavery once existed) we find deplorable. 
It sickens us every time we talk to Lewis residents and they tell us the stories of their sadness that they only see Mary's flowing robe on her back. (This robe also hides the fact that Mary is a woman, which shows male dominance in a subtle way). We have also heard horror stories from St. Ed's residents who have sustained mental problems from viewing Mary's left profile from a very large angle. I tell you it just makes me sick. 
Our requests, no, make that demands, do not stop with Mary alone. We also find it necessary to mechanize the statue of Moses so he can move all of his fingers. Even though this would mean Moses could, "give us the finger" we feel restricting Moses' freedom of expression would be far worse. 
At the war memorial, I mean peace memorial, I mean Stonehenge, we demand the installation of "dancing water" and colorful lights. Students could come together and enjoy the spectacle at hourly performances. During football weekends, the shows would be every half-hour. 
On the site of the former Holy Cross Hall, we also demand a flume ride to be built. The ride would have its origin at the cemetery and conclude with an exciting climax with a 100 foot drop into Saint Mary's lake. We suggest that blue and gold cards be accepted for one free ride (only during non-peak hours). 
We also demand the construction of an attraction for both the South Quad and Mod Quad. We suggest either a Merry-Go-Round with gender neutral biblical animals or bumper cars. 
You may think our efforts are ridiculous but you're obviously wrong, and we will be the first to point that out. We are striving for a completed realization of the Catholic Disneyland the country deserves. We aren't making up problems and its not a theme­park-lover's "thing." We may be staging a vandalism night in the future for our demands so look for our poster. Come SWARM with us! 
Jeremy Mayernik Zahm Hall April10, 1991 

the 7th century. It gave the world many creative geniuses of the first order. Boskovic, the forerunner and discoverer of atomic energy and Mestrovic called "Michelangelo of the 20th century" are just a few ex­amples. Croatia is bigger than some other countries which enjoy independence and could be splendidly rich if it was let alone. Its geographical situation (between Italy, Austria, and Hungary) favors the best development and the highest well-being. 
From the inception of Yugoslavia, some of its representative chose to as­sociate the Croatian nation in a multinational state with Serbia and Slovenia. Many historical documents, though, show disillusionment with that state, where the elementary rights of 
Cheerleading tryouts unfair • 
Dear Editor: 
When I was five, one of my fa­vorite things to do on a Saturday afternoon was to watch ND football with my dad, an alum. I particularly liked to see the cheerleaders perform. Now, however, I really do not want to see them perform at our events next year, knowing that the most qualified individuals were not necessarily selected. 

After attending the competitive tryouts on both Friday and Saturday evenings, I was shocked to find that some of the best candidates were not selected to represent our school next year as ND cheerleaders. While all of those who tried out are certainly talented, there are several who stood out from among the crowd as out­standing in both ability and 
. .. so why bother having them? 
Dear Editor: 
Over this past weekend, some friends of mine and I went to watch the ND cheerleader try­outs. Over the long, two day process, we made some guesses as to who would make the squad. When the results came out, we were surprised, and to be quite honest, disappointed. It was obvious to us and the people we were talking with afterwards, that some of the people that were cut were better than some of those that made it. I mean no offense to 

ort to fulfill its dream 
those who did make the squad. It was evident that everyone who tried out worked hard and was good enough to be on the squad. 
However, several individuals that were cut gave better per­formances during tryouts than some of the people that made the squad. This causes me to wonder what criterion was used in the selection during tryouts. If the tryouts are not going to be the basis for making the squad, then why bother having them? I could not help but feel sorry for all the young men and spirit. Indeed, participants who succeeded in completing re­quired stunts and dances, who also had the highest degree of difficulty and originality in their optional routines, were passed over for individuals who were unable to fulfill requirements and were not capable of exciting the crowd in the same fashion. 
Particularly disturbing is the report that the judge's scores were almost completely disre­garded in selecting the squad for next year. Again, several candidates not selected had scores superior to those of people chosen to represent ND next year to all of our football and basketball games, pep rallies and other school functions. 
What is the purpose of having political equality were mercilessly denied and falsified. 

The hegemony of one nation, Serbia, was imposed upon Croatia and other non-Serbian nations and nationalities. From an unfortunate makeshift state called the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes, later Yugoslavia, and today still re­ferred to as the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the prewar Great Serbian domination failed to unite the multinational state. Today the same Great Serbianism with the support of the Marxists and the army is inexorably failing to unite different nations that have been promised the right to secede. 
Yugoslavia has been unable to satisfy the basic desire of its peoples for equal partnership women that wasted so much of their time participating in and preparing for this long and ar­duous charade. 
I've heard that the coach has some say, above and beyond the judges scores, in who makes the final cuts. If this is true, I won­der what she uses to base her opinions on. Perhaps we ought to look for a new cheerleader coach while we are looking for a new basketball coach. 
Ken Bordignon Dillon Hall April16, 1991 

judges at all if their choices are disregarded? Above all, it is unfair to the people who put in many long hours for months at a time to prepare to face the judges whom they thought would be selecting the squad if those judges indeed had little or no control over their fates. 
It seems, then, that the selec­tion process for the squad needs serious examination over the next year so that the same sort of problems do not develop in future selection processes. It is a shame that the ND community will now be deprived of some of the best and most creative potential cheerleaders we have had in a long time due to politics. 
Amy C. Cashore Howard Hall April 16, 1991 

and mutual inter-dependence before the last war and today. Thus the only way out from that tragic impasse is the legitimate demand of the Croatian nation­als for separation and the for­mation of an independent and free state of Croatia. For that we need the support of the Western world, headed by US. We ask for no pity; we ask for legitimate right that we are entitled to. We do not ask for physical support like in Kuwait either; just a statement that would support our democracy. The history and what is going on presently (Serbian formation of independent regions within Croatia with the Army's support) proved that by monopolistic and colonial exploitation of Croatia, Slovenia, and other nations by one central power concentrated in Belgrade, the present Yu­goslav state cannot preserve peace and prosperity in that part of the world. 
We, the Croats, shall be satis­fied and happy to be reunited with all other free peoples to share the progress and peace of humanity. But that peace in the region can only be established if Croatia is free and independent. 
Boris Ante Juric Off-campus April 16, 1991 

--~-------------------------------------------------------­
r 
( 
~ 
' ~ 
! t 
I 
I ' I 

APRIL 19-21 

weekend calendar 
MUSIC Generators, Club Shenanigan's, 10:00 p.m. Big Shot, Center Street, 9:30p.m. 5 o'clock Shadows, Clob 23, 10:30 p.m. 
EVENTS Rap Fest '91 Theodore's, 9:00 p.m. Nuts, Library Auditorium, 8:10 p.m. ISO Spring Picnic, Holy Cross Field, 4:00p.m. Independence, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 8:00p.m. 
sa 
ay 
MUSIC Lonnie Mack, Center Street, 9:30 p.m. Freddie Jones, Club Shenanigans, 10:00 p.m. Chronic Desire, Club 23, 10:30 p.m. 
EVENTS Africa Night (Sister! Sister!), Stepan Center, 6:30p.m. Independence, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 
8:00p.m. Hogstock II, Holy Cross Field, 1:30 p.m. Fisher Hall Regatta Picnic, Saint Mary's Lake, 11 :00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. 

y 
MUSIC Ice-Nine, Fieldhouse Mall, 2:00 p.m. 
EVENTS Independence, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 2:30p.m. 
FRIDAY "Henry and June," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45p.m. 
SATURDAY 

"Henry and June," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "Guilty by Suspicion," 7:15 & 9:20p.m. "The Perfect Weapon," 7:10 & 9:10p.m. 
"Dances wHh Wolves," 8:15 p.m. "The Doors," 8:00p.m. 
"New Jack City," 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. 

'Best college spring festival' is her 
By FRANK RIVERA Assistant News Editor 
P 
ut away those 
books! What do you 
think this is? 
College? 
Wrong .... 
It's AnTostal '91 at Notre 

Dame and Saint Mary's College 
and it promises to be "The Best 
College Spring Festi­
val!" .... EVER! 
For this one week, South 

Bend could be "the Place to 
be!" said Brennan Harvath, An­
Tostal '91 chairman. 
Is this the place where stu­

dents and people "from far and 
wide" come to witness the 
finest of the Notre Dame/Saint 
Mary's community at play? 
"The BEST(???) College 

Spring Festival" ....EVER!? It 
could very well be that and 
more as the AnTostal '91 
committee's "huge budget" is 
given back to the students in 
the form of the the festival. 
From the traditional, but al­

ways-so-exciting and enjoyable, 
events such as Bookstore Bas­
ketball XX and the Fisher Re­
gatta, to other, newer events 
such as Hogstock II, the week 
promises to be a week of non­
study and hedonism for all but 
the most disciplined of students. 
The Guess Who, winners of 14 gold albums, will be high­lighted Saturday, April 27 in a free concert at "Moose" Krause Stadium, as the AnTostal committee prepares to inaugu­rate the National Band Concert as an annual AnTostal event. 
Performers of such songs as "American Woman," "These Eyes" and "No Sugar Tonight," The Guess Who was spotted in concert in Indianapolis by an AnTostal committee member, according to Harvath. 
The committee realized the band was "playing in a smaller club and we realized that they might fall within our budget," said Harvath. "We signed a contract with them about a month ago." 
The Student Union Board and Saint Mary's Student Activities Board, together with the Alumni Association and Domino's Pizza™, are sponsor­ing the performance by The Guess Who. Bone Forest will open up for The Guess Who. 
The Wailers Band, of Bob Marley and the Wailers fame, and special guest Yabba Grif­fiths and Traxx, will perform tonight at Stepan Center. How­ever, they are not part of the Student Union Board's work, according to Harvath, but rather is brought to ND by a private promoter who was a member of the AnTostal '77 committee. 
"The promoter called us up and asked us if they could use the AnTostal portion of it to give the performance a bigger name," said Harvath, "and to catch people's eyes and get them to go out there and watch the performance." 
Chicago-area band Dick Holi­day and the Bamboo Gang will be performing Thursday, April 25 at the "SMCnic," in a per­
formance also sponsored by at SMCnic. It doesn't end there. 
w
.:-.. 1.----------~------...,..-..<:>~0><.'7"--~o;..~?-O"''-O.C~'>'O'<>-o-.c~'1>-0~~~~"<7'-C7'<~~'<7'ooGi1"'<.-,....c;;.~'<7' 
Domino's Pizza TM. 
In addition to these three 
concerts, campus bands will en­
tertain students throughout the 
week at the Fieldhouse Mall. 
Is that too much music for 
you? 
Well, that's not the only thing 
that's going on. There's more. A 
lot more. 
AnTostal '91 kicks off nine 
days of revelry on "Sailing Sat­
urday," March 21, with Hog­
stock II following the Fisher 
Regatta. 
"If the planners of Woodstock 
could have done it all again, 
they would have done it all 
again, they would have done 
like this," claims the committee. 
Seven campus bands will per­
form for over seven hours after 
the Fisher Regatta, followed by 
an all-star jam session. 
"Circus Sunday" will offer no 
less enjoyment as St. Edward's 
Hall kicks off its Charity Carni­
val III from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. at 
the Fieldhouse Mall sponsored 
by the Hall Presidents' Council 
and It's Tops T-shirt Printers. 
This year's carnival features a 
moonwalk, the huge air mat­
tress of fun we all used to enjoy 
as children. 
Seven bands will be perform­
ing at the Fieldhouse Mall dur­
ing the carnival in celebration 
of Earth Day '91, sponsored by 
Students for Environmental Ac­
tion. 
"Manic Monday" will mark the beginning of "The Quest For The Crown ('TQFTC')" mania as the first event, The Obstacle Course, spans the length of South Quad, challenging all participants. Who would have thought of using baseball bats, big rubber bands and Crisco oil in the same place? No sane person would. 
The Golf Tournament and 
Mattress Drag, the second and 
third events of the "TQFTC," 
provides a change of pace for 
"Alternative Tuesday." 
The Master's could never match the fun involved in the "TQFTC" Golf Tournament. Skill-level is a wholly different story. If ever you had the urge to drag a mattress with a per­son on it, now's your chance to try it, in this competition spon­sored by Budgeteer Motel. 
It doesn't end there. 
University Food Services is creating a REALLY Long Sun­dae on South Quad. How long? Does 500 feet of ice cream tempt your appetite? Bring a shovel. 
Geraldo Rivera would love "Whoopie Wednesday" as teams scour the campus in search of Knute Rockne's lost treasure, in the "TQFTC" Treasure Hunt. 
The Bookstore basketball courts will see mueh action as it hosts the Slam Dunk Contest. If that doesn't sound like fun, maybe the Basketball Challenge will. Watch Joe Student go up against his favorite varsity basketball player or any other campus celebrity. 
Pack your belongings and head on over to Saint Mary's as the College hosts "Thirsty Thursday." Listen to Dick Hol­iday and the Bamboo Gang play 

Sailing Saturday: 
Circus Sunday: 
Manic Monday: Alternative Tuesday: Whoopie Wednesday: Thirsty Thursday: 
Frivolous Friday: 
Psychedelic Psaturday: 
Suddenly It's Surulay: 
Catch the shuttle and head on over. 
Remember Recess? Come take some time off as "Frivolous Friday" is jam-packed with many events to choose from. Whether it's the Domino's Pizza Eating Contest, Air Volleyball on the moonwalk, The Olive Garden's Pasta Eating Contest or Recess, there's no reason to not have fun. 
Have you ever felt the urge to "Do the Time Warp!", listen to some well-hung speakers or listen to Frank N. Furter, the Transylvanian Transsexual from outer space? Well, watch "The Rocky Horror Picture Show" after Recess Friday at midnight. 
"Psychedelic Saturday" fea­tures just as many events, but beginning at an earlier time. The first event, at 9 a.m., if you're awake, is the Road Rally. 
University Food Services, The Alumni Association and Domino's will sponsor a lunchtime picnic at Stepan Cen­ter. You have no choice but to eat there. Everything else is closed. 
Then, there is "Mud Pit Ma­nia." Watch Chariot races vol­
page 13 






I I I 

e at last 

Hogstock II, Following 
Fisher Regatta 
St. Edwards Charity 
Carnival 
Obstacle Course 
Golf Tourney 
Blizzard of Bucks 
Picnic & Dick Holiday and the Bamboo Gang 
Air Volleyball and Recess 
Picnic, Mud Pits and the Guess Who Followed By Spectacular Fireworks 
Bookstore Basketball Finals 
fights, the muddy way! 
The Guess Who performs at 10 p.m. followed by a "spectacular" fireworks display sponsored by the Alumni Asso­ciation and Domino's Pizza. 
"Suddenly It's Sunday," and unfortunately AnTostal '91 must come to an end. 
Once and for all, the Ugliest Man on Campus will be re­solved, as the winner will be crowned during the Bookstore 
Basketball finals.  
Did  someone  say  
"Bookstore"?  
Watch  as  the  men's  and  

women's Bookstore Basketball champions are crowned. What more exciting way can you think of to end AnTostal '91. 
Then, get ready for the long haul of fmals. 
But in the meantime, enjoy. 
"This tradition was made for you and by you and it gets big­ger and better every spring," said Harvath. "So be merry and enjoy the spirit by helping the AnTostal '91 Committee make this tradition...'The Best College Spring Festival!' .... EVER!" 
Or, in the words of Bill S. Preston. Esquire and Ted Theodore Logan, "Party on, 

Charity and fun meet at St. Ed's Carnival 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
Accent Writer 

I 
t is crunch time for students and faculty on the campuses of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's as the countdown to finals reaches "t" minus three weeks. Stress seems to permeate the air, but St. Edward's Hall has found the answer to bring smiles back to everyone's faces. 
On Sunday, April 21, St. Ed's will be hosting its third annual Charity Carnival. The Carnival will have food, games and en­tertainment for all ages. "It is a way of raising money for a good cause while having fun at the same time," say co-chairs of the 1991 Charity Carnival Tony Porcelli and Fred Sowar, St. 
Edwards' Hall Residents. 

Plans for this year's Carnival began as early as last April with reserving the use of Field­house Mall for this Sunday's activities. Under the guidance of St. Ed's, each dorm has or­ganized a booth for the carnival to raise money for charity. 
Traditional activities such as Farley's Fishbowl, Lewis's cari­caturist, Pasquerilla East's cake walk and the Kissing Booth sponsored by Sorin and Howard will be among the many in full swing Sunday. All proceeds that the booths raise will go to the charity that the individual dorm selects. 
The famed dunk tank will also add to the Carnival's fun. Porcelli and Sowar have lined up a "celebrity" unique to each dorm that will have a half hour time slot to hover over the wa­ter. 
By inviting celebrities from individual dorms of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, the co­chairs hope to draw a large number of participants from each residence hall to dunk its famous person. The dorm selling the largest number of 25-cent tickets (for three throws) will be given the "Golden Dunk Award," as well as the privilege to donate the funds raised at the dunk tank to the charity of their choice. 
A raffie sponsored by St. Ed's will take place at the carnival this weekend. Porcelli said prizes range from a football signed by the Fighting Irish football players to gift certifi­cates for various area restau­rants. 
Free live entertainment will perform throughout the day. Clowns and jugglers in cooper­ation with campus bands will provide a carnival atmosphere for all who attend this charity event. 
Festive carnival food will be served the duration of the car­nival from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. at a reasonable price. If it rains on Sunday, the Carnival will be held at Stepan Center. 
"St. Ed's wanted to raise money a different way ... we did not want just an ordinary fund raiser or raffie ... ," said Porcelli. According to Sowar, the Charity Carnival is a must for all those interested in supporting a good cause and having "fun, fun. fun!" 



The Observer
page 14 

A Catholic question: what must I do to be lost? 
The old and hackneyed ques-ventions that defeat the dark-comfort: with it a calm passage lion of Christian evangelism is Father Robert Griffl·n ness. The Catholic truth of is to be made across many a 
"Sir, what must I do to be things is that the mercy of God bad night." saved?" The answer, which has exceeds all our failures, so per-Recently, I heard a son praise pleased millions is, "Believe in Letters to a Lonely God haps there's a hell with nobody the suicide of his father, who the Lord Jesus Christ, and you in it. was a struggling alcoholic, as will be saved." No doubt in the end, He will an act of love offered for the 
As a Catholic belonging to the But how many sins of omission dull winter we spent in Miami. bring us all home after allowing family he was making unhappy. brave new Church, I would now would it take to lose me my We're promised that the flower us free will to flutter around The victim sacrificed himself like to know: what must I do to soul? Was anyone ever forced still blooms beyond the wall; flames, like moths in love with willingly, the son said, to save be lost? Does the questions to walk the plank as a mortal here and hereafter, we're push-the fire that burns them. Isn't it his widow and children from surprise you? Damna ion sinner for failing in charity? I ing up daisies. No wonder life is mind-boggling to trust that He further embarrassment and shouldn't discourage Cath· •lies could blow off Christmas in absurd. can bring us all home after at­pain. from practicing their reli~ ion; April until hell freezes over. At In the old days, any Catholic lowing us to be perfectly free to Who would deny this lad, or some the lost souls could t ave the great judgement, would arriving at the age of reason lose Him forever? any lad, the right to make his more faith than the b 'rn-that leave me numbered among understood that he could The up-to-date Church soft­dead father a hero? Perhaps agains whom I've met lately. the goats holding their water stimy Christ's grace by going pedals the idea of sin and hell many a hero lies buried in a 
As a latter-day Christian, I and refusing to share? to Communion in the state of and the Diving Comedy, and the suicide's grave. God alone know can see that the road to utopia mortal sin; by making a sacri-possibility of heroes, tragically the paths He uses to lead His is paved with good intentions. Christianity looks like a fail-legious confession, he could cut flawed, and saintly sinners who children home with dignity and If I wish to serve the poor and ure, Chesterton noted. That's the Saviour off at the pass, and are saved by grace in the final mercy that we shouldn't be needy, I can paint a house, be a because Christianity has never earn demerits as a black sheep inning. quick to second guess. Big Brother, spend the summer really been tired. Nevertheless, lost in the valley of death. Raskolnikov the murderer What must I do to be lost? As in Appalachia, hang out in the the Church used to be interest-Transubstantiation brought and Sonya the saintly prosti­the blind leading the blind, I'm Third World as a Peace Corps ing in the Dark Ages, when a lad close to the altar where tute reading the New Testament already lost, so the questions is volunteer, or look for a saint's Catholics could imagine them-Christ Crucified was there for together isn't the picture redundant. I have a lover's well to drink from, in the Land selves as sinners in the hands him. "God became Man in church agencies use when quarrel with the Church; it's of the Heart's Desire. of an angry God, ready to burn Palestine/ And lives today in they're raising money for the crowded with pluralists who 
But how can I damn myself in them like spiders making webs bread and wine." The Sacra-propagation of the Faith. If want to have their Catholic hell-fire that lasts forever? in his house. As actors in a ment, efficacious as mere tran-murder is psychopathic, and cake and eat it too. How can I earn the right to call mini-drama, they could choose signification, doesn't lift the prostitution is a form of Notre Dame, as a think tank the devil my father? In this silly Barabbas or Christ, who would heart and mind of the old-fash-degradation that women are of the Church, has a Catholic season of cultural diversity, lead them either to eternity, or ioned Catholic; but the Real driven to, it's hard to imagine soul that will help it survive; when options to be all things to to rivers of blood churned by Presence brings Him so close, how you could even damn starting from here, on a clear all men (and women too!) are hurricane winds. He's almost vulnerable. yourself by committing sin. day you can see forever. Why breaking out around me like Whatever happened to the Therefore, the risks of receiv-The Church used to refuse should we feed you on banali­the uncertain glory of an April afterlife as the gravy train we ing Him unworthily are higher suicides a Christian burial. To­ties, and call them the Gospel, day, what must I do to be are busting our butts for in the than they would be if it's only day, thank God, they are buried instead of educating you as LOST? vale of tears? Who worries now your faith that makes Him with bell, book and candle as heirs of a Tradition who may 
Or has hell been closed as a about losing his or her soul? there for you in the bread and goud Catholics who may not be called to be saints? medieval invention? A fellow Today, the choice is between wine, its substance unchanged have been quite right in their As a lost sheep looking for needs to know whether fire imitating Christ, the Man for by the priest's saying, "This is minds. I'd prefer to think they the Shepherd, I need now and awaits him, or whether sin has others, or of living selfishly, be-my Body ... " made a separate peace with the then to roar like the Cowardly been updated to a sickness that coming your own purgatory; Obviously, I'm a Catholic ro-Father of Life. Lion; for the time being, I have Divine Love can cure. heaven for the climate, or hell mantic in love with magic, and I'm not prepared to defend roared enough. As a lion, I'm 
As a servant of the social for the good company, no the demythologized Church suicide as a rational human old enough to be devoured alive Gospel, I'm free to ride off longer seems a part of the leaves me cold. A religion which act, but there could be a dignity by the Christians I offend. I wildly in all directions, huddling myth. mandates the care of the poor, there that makes it appealing. trust that they're wise enough close to the poor, the hungry, Once we're laid out and who are always with us, needs Nietzsche wrote: "The thought to take an over-the-hill cleric 
the naked, and the prisoner. planted, eternity could be the Christ, blinding us with inter-of suicide is a reat source of with a grain of salt. 
LOSED SECTIONS AS OF ENGL 440 01 1256 LAW 631 D 01 1289 PHIL 268 01 1676 
:DO P.M.. 4/18/91 CE 331 01 0620 ENGL 475A 01 2819 LAW 633 011295 PHIL 268 02 1677 DART COURSES CANCELLED 
CHEG 459 02 0650 ENGL 478A 01 2820 LAW 695 01 1300 PHIL 464 01 1680 CCT231 01 0265 CHEM 119L012429 ENGL488Z012823 LAW695021301 PHYS21001 3145 GOVT 520 01 2872 CCT23110 0274 CHEM119L022431 ENGL491 012824 LAW695031302 PHYS221L021710 GOVT 649 01 28n CCT23111 0275 CLAS305012445 ENGL494012825 LAW695041303 PHYS221L041711 liPS 520G 01 3245 CCT 23115 0279 CLAS 328 01 Z699 ENGL 4958 01 2826 LAW 695 05 1304 PHYS 222 01 1714 THEO 249 01 0142 CCT 334 02 0286 COTH 201 01 2450 FIN 360 01 1055 LAW 695 06 3356 PHYS 222L 02 3151 CCT 334 03 0287 COTH 215 01 0383 FIN 360 02 1056 MARK 350 02 1316 PHYS 331 L 01 1725 CCT 334 04 0288 COTH 369 01 0741 FIN 360 03 1 057 MARK 350 03 3164 PLS 442 02 1829 CCT 334 05 0289 COTH 378 01 2460 FIN 360 04 1058 MARK 370 02 1318 PSY 250 01 1836 CCT 334 06 14n COTH 461 01 0739 FIN 360 05 1060 MARK 492 01 2520 PSY 341 03 2250 CCT371 02 0291 COTH478013187 FIN360061061 MATH325011384 PSY 341T03 1893 CCT371 05 0294 ECON30201 0794 FIN361 011062 MATH325021385 PSY 342 01 1839 
DART COURSE CHANGES 
CCT 371 06 0295 ECON 303 01 0796 FIN 361 021063 MATH 325 04 3139 PSY 389 01 2352 
CCT 372 01 0296 ECON 303L 02 3189 FIN 361 061067 MATH 335 01 1386 PSY 395 01 2599 CHEM 121 L 01 0246 new time: 12:15-01 :05 WCCT 475 03 0301 ECON 315 01 2578 FIN 361 071068 MBA 620 01 3387 PSY 421 01 3003 02:45-04:30 FCCT 475 04 0302 ECON 350 01 0797 FIN 376 01 1072 MBA 649 01 2178 PSY 454 01 3004 CHEM 125L 01 2441 SAME AS CHEM 121LCCT 476 02 2371 ECON 421 01 0799 FIN 376 03 1074 MBA 672 02 1446 PSY 481 01 3006 CHEM 195L 01 2442 SAME AS CHEM 121L
CCT 479 01 0307 ECON 434 01 3192 FIN 376 04 1 075 MBA 673 01 3393 ROFR 1 02A 03 2021 ER0444L02 0317 ECON44301 0800 FIN380031078 MBA 677 013385 ROFR310 01 2037 ER0444L03 0318 ECON484012470 FIN462011080 MGT 231 041478 ROFR310 02 0254 ERO 446L 02 0323 EE 342L 01 0846 FIN 473 01 1084 Ml 308 01 2501 ROFR 465 01 3015 FAM 260 01 3263 EE 342L 02 0847 FIN 478 01 1085 Ml 432A 01 2956 ROIT 101 02 2040 FAM368 01 3265 EE 342L043112GOVT340011161 Ml 435A012942 ROIT101 03 2041 PART COURSES APDEP FAM 371 01 3273 EE 347 01 0853 GOVT 340 02 1162 MSA 544 01 3176 ROSP 103 04 2061 
I; FAM 374 01 3266 EE 348T 02 2171 GOVT 342 01 1165 MUS 220 01 2959 ROSP 103 05 2062 
THEO 260 02 3412 
FAM 420 01 3286 EE 361 02 0858 GOVT 342T 01 2365 MUS 220 02 2960 ROSP 103 06 2063 Christian Ethics, 3 cr. hrs., T H 11:00-12:15 
FAM 452 01 3275 EE 361 L 01 0859 GOVT 342T 02 2366 MUS 221 01 2122 ROSP 201 04 2074 FAM 455 01 3269 EE 361L 02 0860 GOVT 342T 03 2367 MUS 223 01 2961 ROSP 237 01 3021 FAM 457 01 3270 EE 361 L 03 0861 GOVT 342T 04 2368 MUS 226 01 1557 ROSP 318 01 2078 L 21110 0341 ENGL 300A 01 22n1 GOVT 342T 05 3295 NSCI311 02 1617 ROSP 328 01 2079 L 21119 0350 ENGL301A011011 GOVT342T063296 NSCI311L011621 SOC 332 01 3302 MST 360 01 3383 ENGL 311 02 2n5 GOVT 343 02 1022 PHIL 201 03 1658 SOC 401 01 3033 NTH 375 01 2738 ENGL 312 02 2776 GOVT 343T 01 2853 PHIL 201 05 1660 STV 247 01 2591 NTH 444 01 2390 ENGL 3158 01 2698 GOVT 343T 04 2856 PHIL 201 09 1664 STV 354 01 3049 NTH 450 01 2736 ENGL 317C 01 2779 GOVT 343T 05 2857 PHIL 220 01 2976 STV 454 01 2397 NTH 454 01 2396 ENGL 317T 03 2782 GOVT 343T 06 2858 PHIL 221 01 1667 THEO 200 06 0175 RHI 397 01 2739 ENGL 317T 05 2784 GOVT 401 01 2851 PHIL 222 01 1669 THEO 200 07 0168 RHI 464 01 2282 ENGL 318102 2791 GOVT 404 01 2863 PHIL 222 03 2978 THEO 200 08 0167 RST 133S 01 0434 ENGL 319A 01 1018 GOVT 426 01 2665 PHIL 225 01 2525 THEO 200 12 0163 RST 241S012404 ENGL319A021019 GOVT447012495 PHIL231 012980 THE024201 3061 RST 289S 01 2748 ENGL 328A 01 2794 GOVT 472 01 2870 PHIL 232 01 2528 THEO 246 01 0153 A 362 01 0504 ENGL 340 01 3317 GSC 220 01 3221 PHIL 235 01 1671 THEO 247 01 3063 A 363 01 0505 ENGL 3848 01 2796 GSC 328 01 2700 PHIL 239 01 1218 THEO 250 01 01 02 A 363 02 0506 ENGL399A012567 GSC412B013223 PHIL239 02 1029 THE0251 01 0082 A 363 03 0507 ENGL 408Z 01 2798 GSC 430 01 3218 PHIL 242 01 3301 THEO 251 02 0081 BA 363 04 0508 ENGL 414Z 01 2801 GSC 480Z 01 3227 PHIL 244 01 2530 THEO 253 01 0148 BA 363 05 0856 ENGL 415 01 2596 HIST 392 01 2911 PHIL 246 01 1672 THEO 260 01 0147 BA 391 01 0212 ENGL 415C 01 2802 HIST 393 01 2507 PHIL 246 02 1673 THEO 262 01 2358 BA 391 02 0211 ENGL416E012803 HIST394011203 PHIL246 03 2981 THE026501 0145 BA 391 03 2223 ENGL 416F 01 2804 LAW 591 01 1258 PHIL 247 01 2593 THEO 274 01 0143 BA 490 05 0515 ENGL416Z01 2805 LAW601 011265 PHIL250 01 2982 THE0281 01 2547 BIOS 304L 01 0528 ENGL 418C 01 2806 LAW 603 01 1269 PHIL 253 01 2531 THEO 287 01 3065 BIOS 341 01 0530 ENGL 425 01 2807 LAW 620A 01 2301 PHIL 257 01 3335 

APP24301 0608 ENGL428A012810 LAW631A011286 PHIL261 01 1674 APP 331 01 3315 ENGL 435 01 2812 LAW 6318 01 1287 PHIL 264 01 2983 APP 361 01 061 


Friday, April19, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Nets snap long road losing streak; 76ers rout Celtics 
LANDOVER, Md. (AP) -New Jersey snapped a 20-game road losing streak on Thursday night, beating the Washington Bullets 108-103 behind a 29­point, 11-rebound effort by Derrick Coleman. 
It was New Jersey's first vic­tory away from the Meadowlands Arena since Jan. 26 in Miami and its first win at the Capital Centre since March 17, 1986 -ending a string of 13 straight losses. 
Coleman scored 10 points in the fourth quarter, including two free throws with 2:24 left that put the Nets ahead to stay. The Bullets scored only one basket in the final 2:41 after a driving basket by Ledell Eackles tied the game at 101. 
Mookie Blaylock added 24 points for the Nets. John Williams matched his season­high with 27 points and Eackles had 22 for the Bullets, who had their three-game winning streak broken. 
76ers 122, Cellics 97 
PHILADELPHIA -Charles Barkley scored 21 points in 24 minutes in his first game back after a knee injury as Philadelphia routed Boston to snap a three-game losing streak. 
Barkley, who sprained his left knee on March 31 and missed seven games, was scoreless in 5 1/2 minutes in the first quarter but went 5-for-6 and scored 10 points in the second as the 76ers built a 60-48 halftime lead. Barkley scored two points in the third quarter and nine in the fourth, when the 76ers put the game away. 
Hersey Hawkins and Ron Anderson led the 76ers with 26 points apiece. Kevin Gamble scored a career-high 33 points for Boston, which played with­out Larry Bird and Reggie Lewis, both out with back problems. 
Jazz 130, Sonics 103 
SALT LAKE CITY -John Stockton broke his own NBA single-season assist record and scored 8 points in a game­breaking 25-4 run at the start of the third quarter as Utah routed Seattle. 
Stockton's 10th of 11 assists, a handoff to Tony Brown for a layup with 9:16 remaining in the game, gave him 1,135 for the season, one more than the record he set last season. He was taken out of the game for good midway through the final quarter. 
Karl Malone led Utah was 28 points as the Jazz stayed one game behind San Antonio in the race for first place in the Midwest Division. Both teams have two games left. 
Spurs 102, Rockets 95 
HOUSTON -Terry Cummings had 21 points and San Antonio survived Sleepy Floyd's fourth­quarter scoring barrage to beat Houston and eliminate the Rockets from the Midwest Division title race. 
Floyd scored 12 points in a 
2:45 span of the fourth quarter as Houston cut San Antonio's lead to 90-86 with 5:14 left in the game, but the Spurs held on. The closest the Rockets got was a 94-91 deficit with 2:24 to go on a free throw by Hakeem Olajuwon. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
HELP! NEED RIDE TO MNCT 5/19 Excellent 3-bdrm. house, 1 mi. from I need 4 graduation tix! Please help FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY MY DARLING ElEANOR, 
.-,"'

OR 20.NO BAG., SHARE$ CALL NO, on bus line, near stores, etc. me-call Tricia at 271-1920 CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. Happy 20th Birtbday! NOTICES LIZ 1256 Grad. Stud. pref. Call2884300, lv. Thanksforev~ng message. Need two Graduation tickets STUDENTS: Love, 
LOOKING FOR CONDO/APT. TO PLEASE!!! Call Bethe 288-0597 Going home for the summer? Need the guy that hit that sweet TYPING AVAILABLE SUBLEASE FOR SUMMER. CALL SUBLETIOR AND/OR RENTOR a place to stash your stuff? We 1 0 foot fade-away with two 287-4082 JANET 283-3831. NEEDED have the place for you! guys in his face ...left-handed,
PERSONAL

Turtle Creek Apts, 2-bdrm JOY'S SELF LOCK STORAGE and I was fouled too! Resumes.... Professional quality STUDENTS & GRADS Cruise Ship sublet from June -August 272-2400 272-5667. (Tom Williams) Jobs $300 to $900 per week. and/or share lease from Jan. -May. IBM, COMMODORE, OR APPLE. Volunteering after graduation?Sign 
Summer or year around. Call 9-5 M­Call x3828 Cash paid for all makes of SUMMER STORAGE: Best rates up at esc for volunteer send-off $$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. F (317) 452-8809 Ext. C4. Computers and Software. Computer and facility. Call Store-More Mini­ceremony by Apr. 24 Your parents hours 10-5:30 everyday 4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. for 91-92 Yr. software for IBM and IBM Warehouse 654-3636. will want to be there!!! 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 NEED A SUMMER APARTMENT IN Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. compatible, Commodore or Apple, corner of NO Ave. & Howard CHICAGO? $2 each. Georgie: -J The JPW Slide Show will 
1986 NO alum needs a roommate House with indiv. Rooms avail. WESTERN ELECTRONICS GO TO YOUR ROOM! U be shown Monday, April Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award for the summer in a fully furnished 91-92 Yr. Shared Living areas. 1530 WESTERN AVE. Mom and Dad N 22, and Wed., April 24 at W1nning Hotel, has rooms for Lincoln Park location. The Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. 287-7550 I the Montgomery Theatre Graduation weekend. Located at apartment is three blocks from both 0 in LaFortune, 9:30-10 Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles the "L" and the subway (10 min. ride 1 bedroom $95/month 10min NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and A p.m. Be there, or be a
THE COMEDY OF ERRORS from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 to the Loop) and 1/2 mile from Lake by toot .Must move in may .1 trade, gold, silver, diamonds, S foolish little piglet. 
nights with $110 deposit per room. Michigan. Rent is $300/mo. Call call2888927 jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's, 
THE COMEDY OF ERRORS Send letter with deposit to 3011 Mike at (312)649-9407. camcorders, cameras, air To CHRISSY LOFTUS, my favorite 
Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, IN 46514. Sublet apartment for summer: 1 conditioners, microwaves, tools, younger sister: 
THE COMEDY OF ERRORS Third (male) roomate needed for a bedroom, 800+ sq. ft., fully Nintendo's, computers. Have a great time at your prom! TYPING term 3-bedroom house next year. Nice furnished, washer and dryer OZARK TRADING POST You'll be the prettiest chick there, 
IS COMING. papers/reports/letters/resumes. house. Cheap in apartment, pool, tennis 1530 WESTERN AVE. but don't smooch a lot. Love, your 
Pick up and delivery available. 277-15-min walk from campus. courts, etc. Rent negotiable. 287-7550 favorite brother, Peter. 
April 26-27, 8 pm, Theodore's. 5134 Cathy. Call 277-2597 
x3234 Bob ADOPTION: Happily married loving •••••YARD PARTY•••••••• 
SHAKESPEARE IS HERE!!! TYPING: Accurate and Fast! HOUSE FOR RENT couple wish to adopt. We promise Friday, April 26th 
Call Jannell: Days 255-0022; 2BEDROOMS $150,$170/MON a fine education, financial security, Look for cups all week! 
•••*.*****••••*.........
Evenings 684-7507. FOR RENT WALK TO CAMPUS. and the best of all our hearts. "THE COMEDY OF ERRORS" 
CALL: 287-2159 PAUL. Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. BUDWEISER, COORS, PABST Call Tom and Debbie collect 212-FRIDAY & SATURDAY LIVE DOORS MUSIC & CLASSIC SHOULD THIS BE CENSORED? GRAD. WEEKEND HOUSE FOR RENT, 1 TENNANT 866-8315. APRIL 26 & 27, THEODORE'S ROCK AT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY CURRENTLY RESIDES, NEED 8P.M. THE OAR HOUSE • FRI&SAT TYPING/WORD PROCESSING 219-291-7153. MALE ROOMATE, $225 UTIL PAID, HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS (on 31 across from Knights Inn) SERVICE. 232-3325. NO DEPOSIT, DESIRE GRAD SUMMER? Jet there with DOORKNOB LORE 
3 Bedroom House STUDENT, 234-9828-AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the "I'll always be a wordman-better
HAPPY 22nd CYNTHIA! 

Looking for female roomates to Close to Campus HOME OR CALL MARK AT WORK Midwest, $160 from the East Coast. than a birdman"
(on Sunday) 

share summer condo at Oakhill $555 Month + Deposit 234-1221. (As reported in NY Times and Let's Have a great weekend. 
284-4110 Ten Month Lease Go!) AIRHITCH (r) 212-864-2000 DRUM SET FOR SALE 
I love ya' -Marcie

232-3616 A very spacious 1 bedroom! Mirage Percussion Historical elegance! I got it. excellent condition 
LOST/FOUND An attractive studio in lovely old Fireplace, French Doors­Come. And be my baby. c Mark 288-3048 mansion near N.D. $300 now $385 mo. 287-5936 H renting for summer &fall 91 call ·also· To all ENGL 491 A Warriors: "War is A MISSING PERSON 
HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! 2879624 $385 month pays all!! an unending circle of pain" 0 STEVE MEYERS I LOST MY CROSS ON 3/27 IN 1 bedroom apt, fireplace, mini­N GYM 1 OF THE ACC. IT IS A blinds 287-5936 t.n.d. I CHARACTERISTICS: Junior, Pre­SILVER CROSS ON A BLACK Female rmmte. (non-smok.) needed TROOP NOTRE DAME c med/ Communications major, Dillon ROPE. IT HAS GREAT for '91 -92 at Runaway Bay-call Lisa Need female roommates for Fall Check us out !! Hall resident, Kentucky native SENTIMENTAL VALUE! A 259-6841. and Spring semesters at Turtle ·st. Ed's Carnival D PRESUMED TO BE: Imprisoned in REWARD IS OFFERED. IF YOU Creek. •An Tostal E the Hesburgh Library, possibly dead FOUND IT PLEASE CALL: Amanda, 271-1995 It's all in the way you GROOVE s ANY INFORMATION: Call EM 
MIKE AT 1788 LIVE LIKE KINGS I 
3 safe houses, priv. parking INTERNING IN CHICAGO THIS A Mike, LOST: 2 Video tapes in the North lot, beach V-ball ct. '91-'92 FOR SALE SUMMER? Female NO student E Good luck on your interview. I'm Dining Hall. I left them there on yr. 234-3831 or 288-5653 needs roommate. Call Lynn at CLUB 23.SAT*4/20 so happy I didn't stay home to mope Thur. (4-18) during lunch. Please 286-IBM camp. PC/30mgb + x4935. c and do homework. It has been a call!! NO Questions Asked!! additional 20 mgb. hd./ambar H great "78 days." I'll miss you. Chris Balint 233-5882 NYC SUMMER SUBLET screen/2400b modem/MS-Dos and Moving off campus? A Love, 
AVAILABLE. $425/mo. May-Aug. installed software/PERFECT Fantastic bar for sale-less than a 0 "the freshman" 
FOUND: Two rings in the Ladies Call Barb (718) 802-0939. CONDITION. Price negotiable! Call year old. Also, various furniture N first floor restroom in O'Shag. Call after 7 pm. 232-3330 including beds I Michelle­#2170 to claim. (double and single), couches, c Hurry up and call your man and 
MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our DESERT STORM CARDS­tables, desks, bookshelves,etc. leave mine ALONE!!!! Dates for FOUND: at Pangborn SYR. N.D. alumnae family for the most Complete collectors edition of 250 Call 288-0597, Lafayette Square D Mass can be pretty serious you One pair of big gold earrings. If attractive, well-maintained Pro-Set cards-$21 E know! they're yours call x1832 to claim. apartments on Chicago's North Free Campus Delivery Are you organizing a baggage s 
side! Hardwd floors, great closet Call 232-7315 truck? Call Mari at the Alumni I Meet me at Hogstock!!! space, lndry facils., conveniently Office 239-6000. A Keep the peace!!! located to public transp and For Sale: 82 VW Rabbit E
WANTED 
shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. Great condition, new battery, To Coleen -the girl with the self­We'd love to help you out! 100k miles proclaimed great butt. Give me a Volunteering post-grad? SUMMER JOBS Call Jeff @ 1786 call back if you want to do Parents not too psyched about 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS something the decision? Change their minds PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS FOR RENT FOR RENT INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. at the volunteer send-off ceremony ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR Buying a car? Good rates. Call me St. Jude, thank you for prayers on May 18 at 11am! LAKE PLACID. CALL BIG 4 BEDROOM I 2 BATH HOUSE for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. answered. 1-800-343-8373. WITH WET BAR IN BASEMENT. Office near campus. DECLARATION OF 
$600 FOR FOUR. INDEPENDENCE 

~
American AuPair nanny specialists. 10 MONTH LEASE. IRISH PUB NEAR N.D.-3 WAY Tired of the Carefully screened families. Full CALL 271-0373 LIQUOR LICENSE P.O. BOX 1121 same old hangouts? O'Laughlin Auditorium benefits, airfare, good wages, SOUTH BEND, IN 46624 April17-20 at 8:00p.m. 
..,OuRIII(T auAC;.t~ 
Nanny support system, no fees. OR CALL (219) 277-8526 Come see DORKNOB LORE April 21 at 2:30p.m. Local interview-call Joan 616-684-TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY at the OARHOUSE 1451. FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE (on 31 right across the street $5 students 
IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER Plane Tix: SEATILE to NO in Fall. from the Knights Inn) $4 SMC students 3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE x1152 FAI & SAT night at 1O:OOPM Moving to Chicago? Female NO NORTH OF NO 2773097 !!!!!!!!SENIORS!!!!!!!! 
f'·t.lr. •n• rwo Co.,.~r'f"''Ct Snad-~~ea 
grad needs roommate to share 2 "Ghosts crowd the young child's Alumni-Senior Picnic 
(W() Garden !:Nrta•. ~;"'' yO\.Ir d\o•"'-01 Frenc.h Ft~ea ot O,.on R'"''' and 2 
bedroom apartment. Must be a non­PROCRASTINATORS! fragile, eggshell mind" will be on April 27th, 11 :30 ­
~~ ..... <t,..,...u-,
TICKETS
smoker. If interested, please call Not too late to rent-large, 1 :30 at Alumni-Senior Club. 
eaplrotlon dote 5/5 
Ann at (312) 935-1958. furnished, clean house w/washer, The most bizarre question that Cath FREE!! 
Sundae
dryer in "student" neighborhood for has ever been asked: More information to come... 
..--------­
fWy 11'\J IIIC 1wodM and
Fall semester. Lease, deposit. Call One way ticket Chicago to " Exactly how do these open­
99" ..oo•• 1 o.eund one cJ ot>c 
aame uM fr. "'­
DESPERATE: Need 1 hotel room today or MISS OUT on great Newark 5/16 -must be female. backed dresses work? I don't 
eHplrotlon date 5/5
Sat. of Grad. 271-1893 housing! 259-7801 or 255-5852. $100 negot. 272-7727 understand." What is the Extern Program 
SCOREBOARD 

TRANSACTIONS BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL BA ANDIN 
AU Times EDT AU Tirnea EDT BASEBALL Resulta from Bookatore Buketball XX: EASTERN CONFERENCE NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE American League Thuraday, April 18, 1881 Atlantic Dlvlalon Eaal Dlvlalon Eaat Dlvlalon BOSTON RED SOX-Signed Steve Lyons, Adwortts def. Dr. Avalanche & Hil Chorus, 21-13 W L Pet. GB 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB nlielder, to a one-year contract. Placed Randy Golden Sombreros def. Nothing and Ike itl, 21-8 y-Boston 56 24 .700 Chicago 7 3 .700 Toronto 6 4 .600 Kutcher, outfielder, on waivers. Cauliflower, Crud ... def. The Ross Twins are on x-Phiiadelphia « 36 .550 12 NewYortt 6 4 .600 1 Detroit 5 4 .556 112 National League Scholarship?, 21-18 X·New York 38 42 .475 18 Pittsburgh 5 5 .500 2 Milwaukee 5 .. .556 112 CHICAGO CUBs-Activated Rick Sutcliffe, Mu~iple Scoregasms II del. Air Zebra. .., 21·14 Washington 30 50 .375 26 St. Louis 4 5 .444 2112 Boston 5 5 .500 1 pitcher. from the 15-day disabled list. Sent Erik The Hawk will never die def. Screamin Vikings, 21-New Jersey 25 55 .313 31 
Montreal 4 6 .400 3 Cleveland .. 5 .444 1 112 Pappas, Infielder-catcher, to Iowa of the American 8 Miami 23 57 .288 33 Philadelphia 3 6 .333 3112 Baltimore 3 5 .375 2 Association. Team 334 del. B-1 Bombers, 21-7 Central Dlvlalon Weat Dlvlalon New Vortt 3 6 .333 2112 PITISBURGH PIRATE~ecalled Mark Bill Laintleer & 4 Others del. We scored 98@ y-Chlcago 59 21 .738 
W L Pet. GB Weat Divialon Huismann, pitcher, from Buffalo of the American Chuckle Cheese, 21·5 x-Detroit 49 31 .613 10 
San Diego 7 3 .700 W L Pet. GB Association. Sent Tom Prince, catcher.to Buffalo. Sons of Chachi def. 2 Rosses don't make a Right, x-Milwaukee 47 33 .588 12 Houston 5 4 .556 1 112 Oakland 8 1 .889 BASKETBALL 21-10 x-Atlanta 42 38 .525 17 Cincinnati 4 4 .500 2 Chicago 6 2 .750 1 112 National Basketball Association Just Chill in' def. Where the Sun don't shine, 21-9 JC·Indiana 40 40 .500 19 Los Angeles 4 5 .444 2 112 California 5 <4 .556 3 WASHINGTON BULLETS-Placed Charles Mikey likes~ det In Bounds, in Range, 21-17 Cleveland 31 49 .388 28 Atlanta 3 4 .429 2 112 Kansas City 4 5 .444 4 Jones, center, on the injured list. Signed Larry Barking CIHI Chickens def. DeBartolo's Hh Men, Charlotte 26 54 .325 33 San Francisco 3 6 .333 3 112 Texas 3 4 .429 4 Robinson, guard. 21-19 WESTERN CONFERENCE Weclneaday'a Gamea Seattle 3 6 .333 5 World Basketball League The Cheggers def. 5 Guys who can't score, 21-11 Midweat Dlvlalon 
Chicago 4, Philadelphia 1 Minnesota 2 7 .222 6 NASHVILLE STARS-Signed Jamie Waller, Spidergram P.l. del. 1992 Olympics ... , 21-20 W L Pet. GB Los Angeles 6, San Francisco 2 Wedneaday'a Gamea forward. Named Kevin Legate assistant coach. Chillin with Frozen Roman def. Dogs gone Dirty, K-San Antonio 54 26 .675 Montreal 1, St. Louis 0 New York 10, Chicago 1 FOOTBALL 21·18 x-Utah 53 27 .663 1 Pittsburgh 4, New Yortt 0 Boston 6, Kansas c~ 2 National Football League Who are we kidding? del. Toenail Clippings, 21·10 x-Houston 51 29 .638 3 Houston 4, Atlanta 3 Detroit 5, Toronto 4. 10 Innings NEW ORLEANS SAINTs-Announced the N.D.'s Most Wanted del. T.A.'a from Hell, 21·8 Orlando 29 51 .363 25 Cincinnati 5, San Diego 1 Milwaukee 7, Baltimore 3 retirement of Brad Edelman, guard. Senior Bar del. 4 Beavers ... , 21-7 Dallas 27 53 .338 27 
Thuraday'a Gamea Seattle 4, Minnesota 3, 11 Innings Canadian Football League 4 Men & Ken def. Team 537, 21·16 Minnesota 27 53 .338 27 Late Game Not Included Oakland 3, California 1 OTIAWA ROUGH RIDER8-Signed Dan Enos, Team 51 del. Team 231, 21·8 Denver 19 60 .241 34112 
San Diego 10, Los Angeles 5 Thuraday'a Garnea quanerback, to a three-year contract. Burrblin', Sturrblin', Rurrblin' del. Team 373, 21· Pacific Dl vialon Chicago 3, Pit1sburgh 2 Late Game Not Included COLLEGE 17 y-Ponland 62 18 .775 Philadelphia at St. Louis, pp rain Boston 1, Kansas City 0 DREXEL-Named William R. Herrion men's Peache's Late Night All-Stars del. Team 556, 21-x-LA Lakers 57 23 .713 5 
Frlday'a Gamea Detroh 16, Chicago 0 basketball coach; Johnson Bowie director of men's 10 x-Phoenlx 54 26 .675 8 Chicago (D.Jack&on D-1) at Pittsburgh (Palacios Milwaukee 4, Ba~imore 3, 11 innings athletics; and Barbara Kilgour director of women's Hussein, Digger ... del. Dances w~h Ohlmeyers, 21· x--Golden State 42 38 .525 20 D-0), 7:35p.m. Texas 7, Cleveland 0 athletics. 9 x-Seattle 40 40 .500 22 New York (Gooden 2-0) at Montreal (De.Martinez Oakland at California, (n) KENTUCKY WESLEYAN-Named Scott Lewis Time for us to fly def. The Doorknobs, 21·12 LA Clippers 31 49 .388 31 1-1), 7:35p.m. Frlday'a Gamea women's basketball coach. Apocalypse del. Carolina Connection, 21-13 Sacramento 23 56 .291 381/2 Cincinnati (Armstrong D-1) at Atlanta (Giavlne 1· Toronto (Stieb D-2) at Milwaukee (August D-1), WASHINGTON-Signed Chris Gobrecht. Gina's Pizza del. We could beat Butler, 21-5 x-clinched playoff berth 0), 7:40 p.m. 7:05p.m. women's basketball coach, to a two-year contract. We can score quicker del. The Power of the y-c6nched division title Philadelphia (laPoint D-1) at St. Louis (B.SmHh 2· Kansas City (Boddicker 1·1) at New Yortt (leary Triangle, 21-15 Wedneaday'a Gamea 0), 8:35 p.m. 1-0), 7:30p.m. No Clue del. 4 Genuines ... , 21-13 Charlotte 123, Atlanta 111
NHL PLAYOFFS

Los Angeles (Morgan D-1) at San Diego (WhHson Boston (G.Harris D-2) at Cleveland (Candiotti 2-0), Victor Kiam. .. def. 5 who celebrated .... by Cleveland 112, Orlando 1 02 1-0), 1 0:35 p.m. 7:35p.m. disqualification Chicago 111. Miami 101
All Times EDT 

Houston (J.Jones 1-0) at San Francisco (Garre~s TeKas (Rogers 0-1) at Battimore (J.M.Robinson o-Shamma Lamma del. All the President's Men, 21· Dallas 102, Minnesota 100 
DIVISION ANALS 

1-0), 10:35 p.m. 1), 7:35p.m. 15 Phoenix 105, LA Clippers 100
Wedneaday, April 17 

Saturday'a Gamea Oakland (Stewart 1·0) at Seattle (Delucia D-1 ), Julius & 4 Othens del. The Masters, 21·9 Golden State 118, LA Lakens 111
Boston 2, Montreai 1, Boston leads series 1-0 
New York at Montreai, 1:15 p.m. 10:35 p.m Gooky Train def. J. CrErt¥... , 21·8 Tihuraday'a Gamea
Washington 4, Pittsburgh 2, Washington leads 
Chicago at Pit1sburgh, 1 :35 p.m. Minnesota (Morris D-2) at California (C.Finley 2· 5 Man Accoustical Jam del. 4 Musty Pels..., 21·16 Late Game Not Included
series 1-0 

Houston at San Francisco, 4:05p.m. 0), 1 0:35 p.m. 
Philadelphia 122. Boston 97
Thuraday, April 18 

Cincinnati at Atlanta, 7:10p.m Saturday'a Gamea New Jersey 108, Washington 103
Late Game Not Included 

Philadelphia at St. Louis, 8:05 p.m. Detroit at Chicago. 1:15 p.m San Antonio 1 02, Houston 95
Minnesota 2, St. Louis 1, Minnesota leads series 
Los _Angeles at San Diego, 10:05 p.m. Kansas City at New York, 1 :30 p.m. Utah 130. Seattle 103
1-0 

Boston at Cleveland, 1:35 p.m. Denver at Sacramento, (n) 
Edmonton at Los Angeles, (n)

Texas at Baltimore, 1:35 p.m. Frlday'a Gamea
Friday, April 18 

Toronto at Milwaukee, 2:35p.m. Chicago at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. 
Montreai at Boston, 7:35p.m. 

Oakland at Seattle, 10:05 p.m. Philadelphia at Miami, 7:30p.m. 
Washington at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 

Min~a at California, 10:05 p.m. Washington at Orlando, 7:30p.m. 
Saturday, April 20 

Detrok at Atlanta, 8 p.m.
Minnesota at St. Louia, 8:35 p.m. 

Boston at Cleveland, 8 p.m.
Edmonton at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 

Houston al Daftas, 8 p.m. 
mmer of •41 Heroes 
MilwaUkee al Minnesota, 8 p.m. 
New York at indiana, 8:30 p.m. 
San Antonio at Denver, 9:30p.m. 
Top finishers in the 1941 American League batting race, when 
Tale of the Ta 

Phoenix at Seattle, 10 p.m.
Ted Williams batted .406 and Joe DiMaggio 
Golden State at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 
Sacramento at Portland, 10::ll p.m. 
Saturday'• Gamea LA Lakers at Utah, 3:30p.m 
hit in 56 consecutive games. 
Batting averages 

Miami at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. 
Charlotte at New York. 8:30p.m. 
Ted Williams, Boston .406 

Indiana at Milwaukee, 9 p.m
Cecil Travis, Washington .359 

Sunday'a Gamea Allanta at Boston, 1 p.m.
Joe DiMaggio, New York .357 

D 1991 Minnesota at Washington, 1 p.m. 
Jeff Heath, Cleveland .340 

Detroit at Chicago, 3:30 p.m. 
.1990 Philadelphia at Cleveland, 3:30 p.m. Utah at Golden State, 3:30 p.m. Dallas at San Antonio, 3:30 p.m. Portland at Phoenix, 4:30p.m. 
Dick Siebert, Philadelphia .334 
Top five hitting streaks 

LA Clippers at Sacramento, 5 p.m. 
New Jersey at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. 
GAMES 
1941 Joe DiMaggio, New York 56 

Denver at Houston, 8:30 p.m. 
Seattle at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. 
1899 Willie Keeler, Baltimore 44 1978 Pete Rose, Cincinnati 44 

NBA BOXES 
1894 Bill Dahlen, Chicago 42 1922 George Sisler, St. Louis 41 

1941 Ted Williams, Boston .406 
1923 Harry Heilmann, Detroit .403 
+
American

1922 George Sisler, St. Louis .420 
1920 George Sisler, St. Louis .407 
Red Cross 

1912 Ty Cobb, Detroit .41 0 1911 Ty Cobb, Detroit .420 1901 Nap Lajoie, Philadelphia .422 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

1930 Bill Terry, New York .401 
1925 Roger Hornsby, St. Louis .403 
I 
1 
1 
) 

Friday, April 19, 1991 
The Observer page 17 
SPORTS SHORTS ....
Baseball squad returns to MCC action 
. Creighton's new coach gets boost from Knight · 
By JIM VOGL They extended their winning has nothing to do with how
· • OMAHA, Neb . ..;.._ Bob Knight. who was 24 when he started Sports Writer streak to seven, raising their good this club is. I know this is his head coaching career at Army,. says age won't be a problem record to 22-12, while the best team I've had in fourand could be a benefit fQt Creighton's new 31~year*old coach. 
The Notre Dame Baseball remaining in second place at 5~ years at Notre Dame," Murphy~ck Johnson will be one ·or the youngest. college head coaches. 
team hits the road again this 2 in MCC action. said.
.· lfyou can develop a solid approach to what you're doing. youth weekend, returning to confer­The Bulldog pitching staff is This season's schedule in­can be a great benefit," Knight saidbefore speaking at theB'nai ence play against Butler for lead by junior Scott Metzinger, cludes six top-25 teams, ac­
• B'rith charity banquet at Ak-Sar•Ben Coliseum Wednesday ...It doubleheaders on Saturday and who boosted his MCC record to cording to the latest rankings innever has to be a detriment.,. Johnson met·the Indiana coach at Sunday in Indianapolis. 3-1 with a 6-5 triumph over the Baseball America. They in­
the dinner J<night~aid assistants don;t need yearsofexperience
1 

clude Stanford (3), LSU (12),
Butler owns an overall record Billikens.
•to _beco~e succ~ssful head coach~~· "N~1 if you're good,,. he 
of 13-18. Notre Dame leads the Senior Jeff Sells mans the Tulane (17), and South
sa1d. Kmght satd he would advise Johnson to use his time 
all-time series 39-13, while the bullpen, collecting his sixth Alabama (22). Michigan justwisely...An old friend told me once that the difference between Irish took in four of five games save in that game. recently dropped from the na­• being a bead coach and an assistant coach is the difference last season. Offensively, Brent Berglund tional polls. 
between suggestion and decision," Knight said. ~so now the new The Bulldogs, in winning two continues his quest to hit .400.
guy has to decide things himself. 
of three from Saint Louis last Last week's 9-21 (.429) per~ Despite such imposing com~ week, fell from a tie for second formance leaves his season av­petition, Murphy recognizes the
A&M's Brooks Thompson transferring to Okla. St. 
with the Irish to fourth in the erage at .398, ranking second team's ability to maintain their
• HOUSTON _:;.;.... Texas A&M sophomore point guard Brooks 
MCC race with a 8-7 record. in the MCC. intensity leveL "I like the fact
Thompson. worried about NCAA probation, is transferring to 
On the other hand, the Irish As the season winds down, that (our players') expectations· Oklahoma State, Thompson said h~ was conc~rned Texas A&M Notre Dame Coach Pat Murphy are not based on what uniforms
are fresh off a brief but suc­
.···.·cqpld be put on probation because of recruiting violations.under 
cessful homecoming, taking two feels positive about his team's the other teams have on, butfotmer eooch Kermit Davis. and that would hurt his dream of at the expense of Chicago State. potential. "Our win/loss record what's inside themselves." 
playing in t~e NCAA tournament. ..The. NCAA is here now on · campus/'11lompsun said. ~IfJ'm here and they .go on probation, . then I know.lcan't go to the NCAAs." Davis.was forced to resign 
Heritage Classic first post-Masters event 
. March 15 following a critical university report on his recruiting practices. Thompson will sit out nextseason and have two years HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. Neither Love nor Triplett had finally getting his card on hisof eligibility remaining. Thompson said the revolving door for (AP) -Davis Love III believes a bogey on the par-71, 6,912-fourth try. 
eoach'~is another reason he.decided·to leave; "(Tony BatoneJ is he knows what it will take to yard course. Love fired in an But Triplett, who was not my third coach in t~ree ~ear~,( Thompsoll said: "If l ~~y~ to. 
move to a higher level on the eagle on the par~S 15th hole to eligible to play in the Heritage>adjust to another COaching SySfeiiJ.. J W(l~Jt tU do it.somewhere 
PGA Tour. go with four birdies. last year, is no stranger to beingelse. Coach {Eddie) SuttOn Was a big reason for me wanting to "It's just a matter of winning "No bogeys was nice," said in the lead. He was in front go t() Oklahoma ~tate. ~e's a pr9ven winner, and right now·· enough where you're Love, whose first of two PGA after the opening round of last .,i.. tbafs important to me." 'fhqmpsqn said ~e marte his decision comfortable in the lead, and victories came in the 1987 year's Buick Classic, eventually
before Barone was hired last week and nothing would change 
more comfortable playing from Heritage. ''I've been making a finishing third. 
his mind. 
a shot or two behind," Love lot of bogeys lately. ''I've had my name on that said Thursday after shooting a "Last week, I made 20 birdies leaderboard a few times."
·.Computer gOes 5.-&picking NHL ptayoff winner$ 
65 to tie for the first-round lead in four rounds and shot l-over­Triplett said. "I don't feel like
• EDMONTON, Alberta --A computer which goofed when·it 
in the Heritage Classic. par. So I'm still stewing about I'm going, oh, gosh, I've never 
picked the Calgary Flames to win its opening-r~und series in 
"Hopefully, by the end of the that," he said. "The way I play been here before ... because Itheir NHL playotTJ::;now five,-for.,eight. Thecomputernetwork at year I'll move up to that next golf, I'm going to make bogeys. have."
the Alberta Research Council office in Calgary didn't do its level," he said. "I'm not pushing But you need to make maybe Mark McCumber is one stroke 
credibility .much good when it predicted the Flames would 
myself. but I can see it, and I'm half as many bogeys as you back of the leaders at 67. while eliminate. the Edlt1onton Oilers, Jt also predicted that the looking to get there." make birdies." four players are at 67. 
Blackhawks, eliminated by the North Stars, would win the How Love reacts to being in Triplett had six birdies and, Defending champion Payne
Stanley Cup and the New York Rangers would defeat the 
the lead gets put to the test like Love, no bogeys in his first Stewart is one of 10 players tied Ca;pitals, Butitwason target when it selected the Bruins, again today. Love is tied with time at Harbour Town. Triplett at 68. 
Ca~adiens. Penguins, BlJ.tes and Kings to win opening'-hmnd second-year PGA pro Kirk said he's had several no-bogey Stewart, the only player to senes. "Five out of eight isn't too bad," said Brian Schack. a Triplett at 6-under-par going rounds, the last coming in San win consecutive Heritages, is cmnputer programmer•. Tb~ computer is now picking the Kings · 
into the second round of the Diego in mid-February. playing for the first time after a ···· t~,,:i~t'·~~~ ~=:~~t.~~.~~· j~ r;!qp'tb~l~y~~·.it eitP.er." ~~il,lck .sill~~ ......·· ·•••······· 
tournament at Harbour Town "I love this place," Triplett two-month absence because of 
Susan Espinosa­Don't you hate getting caught with your pants down??? 


O:lserver File Pholo 

Football fun 
Two students take a break from studying to play football on North Quad. 
Golf Links. said. "I felt real comfortable out a herniated disc in his neck. 
Fifty-eight of the 118 golfers there." ''I'm just excited about being in the field shot par or better on The little-known Triplett has out and playing again," Stewart a perfect day for scoring: no spent the last several years said. "I thought there was a wind and soft greens. playing on foreign tours before little bit of anxiousness. What 
r;.;_l.. 1»-':\ :-t'l~":'W ~m..;  ROFFLER SORBIE PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS  PHONE (219) 233-4957  
~~  

ROCCO'g STYLE SHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OP '4/ALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR 

was going to happen? How was I going to play?" 
Stewart parred the first three holes and then double-bogeyed the par-3 4th when he drove into the water. 
"After that, I guess I settled down a little bit and realized I'm back out here playing," Stewart said. "It's (his neck) not bothering me, so don't have that in your mind that it's going to bother you. I started hitting some good solid shots." 
Indeed. Stewart sank a 20­foot birdie putt on No. 6 and then made a 5-foot putt on No. 8 for a birdie. He added three birdies on the back nine to come in at 3-under. 
"I feel comfortable on the golf course," Stewart said. "I think it's easier to come back some place that you've had success. 
Tm just excited about being out and playing again. I feel my year is starting now. I'm looking forward to playing." 
Michigan 
continued from page 24 
nine home runs and 23 RBis to increase his season totals to .429, 10 and 26, respectively. 
The victory gave Irish coach Pat Murphy 153 for his career. He needs only four more wins to pass Larry Gallo ('81~'88) to become second on the all-time Irish victory list. 
+
American 
Red Cross 
.. .. -• .. • .. -• ..... • -... ---· ; • • _.. ' ....... 
_..................... 
-.. • ... --• .. • • • ... .. • .. • • -<1--~ ~ -. ;.-. ... ­
------~ --------------~-----------­
'1 
!l page 18 The Observer Friday, April 19, 1991 
:t Men's golf hopes to zip to top at Akron Invitational 
By RICHARD MATHURIN World Series of Golf. 40 teams will be competing for Indiana Invitational last week­"We haven't reached my goal 
~~ Sports Writer "It's the Master's of the north. the first place prize of a $1200 end. Senior captain Paul Nolta, of 300 as a team. We need five It should be a real treat for the scholarship to the winning who had rounds of 7 3 and 80 guys to shoot 75, but no one on The Notre Dame men's golf kids," said Irish coach George school. last weekend, will again hope to the team has been consistent." team will face its sternest test of Thomas. "There are a lot of sunbelt pace the Irish. Junior Mike said Thomas. 
!I 
the season this weekend as they The field is filled with strong schools, who have been playing O'Connell will look to duplicate ''I'm hoping we'll finish in the
l compete in the 54 hole Akron teams from all over the United all year round. They really have his showing at the Indianapolis middle of the pack. We might Invitational at the Firestone States including all of the Big an advantage over us because Intercollegiate, two weeks ago, surprise ourselves, but there 
I \ 
Country Club in Akron, Ohio. Ten schools, Florida St.. we've hardly been able to prac­when he shot rounds of 71 and are so many strong sunbelt 
The Firestone Country Club is Oklahoma St .. Clemson. Ball St., tice," commented Thomas. 75. Other starters will be junior schools in the field, its going to 
one of the best courses in the Miami of Ohio, Bowling Green, The Irish will start the same Mike Crisanti and sophomores be really difficult," concluded 
l 
Northeast and is host to the Kentucky, Toledo. All told over squad that took seventh at the Joe Dennen and Chris Dayton. Thomas. 
' 
trainer Archie Moore, the 77­year-old former light heavy­
l I Fight 
I 
weight champion who fought continued from page 24 until he was 49, believes "People write, 'You got to win Foreman is in top condition. 
I 
George, you must do it," said Foreman, a 3-1 underdog in his Foreman has not weighed less bid to become the oldest man to than 2 50 pounds in his last 12 
win a world championship in fights.
l any weight class. The victory would come 16 Moore, who was in Foreman's years, five months and 20 days corner when he lost to Ali, was after he lost the title to reunited with Foreman for the Muhammad Ali on an eighth­Gerry Cooney match five fights round knockout at Kinshasa, ago. Zaire. 
He had won the title by stop­He believes Foreman is better ping Joe Frazier in the second now than he was in the 1970s. round in 1974 at Kingston, Jamaica. Watching on closed­"He's more sage," Moore said. circuit television in Atlanta was "He's more subtle, more 10-year-old Evander Holyfield. devastating, more confident." After losing to Jimmy Young in 1977. Foreman retired and Angelo Dundee, who trained became an evangelist. He Ali and will serve as Foreman's began his comeback in 1987. cutman, believes Big George He weighed 267 pounds for will nail Holyfield because his first fight, a fourth-round Holyfield doesn't have good lat­knockout of Steve Zouski. His eral movement and is not a de­weight of 257 pounds for Friday fensive-minded fighter. night's fight is fifth highest for a championship bout. On the other hand, Benton Primo Carnera weighed 260 said, "George is not a defensive 1/2 pounds when he won the ti­fighter." tle from Jack Sharkey in 1933 and weighed 270, 263 1/4 and Foreman has not had to pay 259 1/2 for three defenses. much attention to defense so Foreman has convinced more far in his comeback. than a few boxing people that 
"We know he's capable of
he can win. Part of the Holyfield strategy 
being taken out and we know 
LOGAN VOLUNTEERS
Others see him a snakeoil apparently will be to throw lots 
Holyfield is capable of doing it." 
salesman, who, while making of punches and make Foreman 
Benton said. "Holyfield is
1 jokes about eating cheeseburg­spend lots of time in his crab­THE BIG EVENT HAS ARRIVED! 
punching hard enough to take 
ers, fattened his record on like defense in which he folds 
him or any other heavyweight
hamburger opposition. his arms and extends them in out." 
Formal-Sun., April 21st, 6-9pm at Turners! comeback opponents, there is 
1 Whatever the quality of his 24 front of his face. 
Van Pick-ups: 4:30 SMC-Holy Cross & 5:30
There are 21 knockouts on 
no question Foreman can Benton also said Holyfield will 
Holyfield's 25-0 record. 

4:40, 5:40pm ND-Main Circle 
punch hard. He knocked out or crowd Foreman and make the 
Banquet-Sat. April 27, 5:30pm at Logan Center 
stopped 23 of them to boost his challenger push him away. He 
"We just can't let Foreman get 
career record to 69-2, with 65 also will make him turn ­
Van Pick-ups: 4:45 SMC-Holy Cross 
lucky," said Lou Duva, who 
knockouts. anything to tire him. 
helps train Holyfield. 

5:10, 4:50, 5:15pm ND-Main Circle 
After being knocked out by 
Bowling and Recs. these weekends too!
Foreman 1990, Mike Jameson said, "I can take a punch. But, by God, he hit me harder than anyone, even Mike Tyson. "He hits you with those hands, it's like a wrecking ball coming at you." "You don't lose your power," acknowledged George Benton, the former middleweight con­tender who trains Holyfield. Foreman, of course, wants to win early. He certainly doesn't want to have to haul his bulk over 12 rounds against a su­perbly conditioned opponent, who has demonstrated stamina in the past. Despite Foreman's weight,  ISO SPRING PICNIC TODAY!!! Where: Holy Cross Field Time: 4pm Lots of burgers, hotdogs, games, and fun! ISO t-shirts will be sold during the picnic, so bring some cash if you don't have yours.  
THANK YOU! To all the students who did such a great job on our house at 415 Harris Street. Last Saturday's Christmas in April was a dream come true. God Bless All of You! Ed and Yvonne Kaczmarek  

in the fourth round in 
Ques: Janet 284-5090 
Sally 283-3783 

The TOP TEN Reasons To Eatat BONNIE DOON'S 

1Q 53 Years of ND/SMC students must know a good thing when they "taste" it 9 Have you ever seen a better looking neon sign? 
8 When you're cruising the strip-US 33 North -it's a great place to stop, right by North Village Mall! 
7 It's open when you're hungry-ready to serve you Breakfast. Sandwiches & Ice Cream: M-TH: 6:30AM-11:00PM FRI: 6:30AM-12 MID SAT: 7:30 AM-12 MID SUN: 7:30 AM-11:00 PM 
6 To use the Bonnie Doon coupons on page 67 of the ND/SMC Student Directory. 
5 You don't have to take your parents with you to be able to afford it. 
4 You can't go anywhere else for a Bonnie Burger. 
3 It'll take at least 20 visits to taste all the great Doon flavors. 
2 Nothing tastes better than a Choco-Mint Soda after a big exam. 
And the NUMBER ONE Reason! (drumroll. ....) r&
!. 
~ '· 
1 To get a FREE REGULAR SUNQI\E ­
1' 
OR SHAKE !with purchase of 
12. !il 

l 
sundae or shake) just by showing ~1l1lle 
us your ND/SMC student ID! _ 
£.1loo1L.7 

"My daddy makes the best ice cream!" ••liiiiiiiiii...-' 

Friday, April 19, 1991 The Observer page 19 
North Stars continue upsetting ways; Kings prevail 
ST. LOUIS (AP} -Jon Casey stopped 31 shots as the Minnesota North Stars continued their upset run in the NHL playoffs with a 2-1 victory over the St. Louis Blues in the opener of the Norris Division finals Thursday night. 
Dave Gagner got the North Stars' 16th power-play goal of the playoffs and Shane Churla also scored while the Minnesota defense did the rest. The North Stars' forechecking frustrated the Blues all night and Casey was there to stop St. Louis' best scoring chances. 
Casey shut out the Blues the first two periods before Rich Sutter scored on his own rebound at 4:35 of the third. 
The Blues were 5-1-2 against the North Stars during the regular season and had 3 7 more points while finishing with the second-best record in the league. They also have the highest point total of the remaining teams in the playoffs, but they're having a hard time handling the favorite's role. 
St. Louis fell behind three games to one before finishing ofT the Detroit Red Wings in the first round and will be playing catch-up again in Game 2 Saturday night in St. Louis. 
The North Stars tied a playoff record with 15 power-play goals in 54 chances in their first-round upset of overall points champion Chicago, and they didn't waste any time getting No. 16. 
Gagner put the North Stars ahead when he scored on a deflection at 1:46 of the first period, only four seconds after the Blues' Glen Featherstone was whistled for tripping. Gagner won the draw on a faceoff and passed it to Mark Tinordi near the right-side boards, then redirected the shot past Vincent Riendeau for his fourth goal of the playoffs. 
Smythe Division 
Kings 4, Oilers 3 

INGLEWOOD, Calif. -Luc Robitaille scored his second goal of the game 2:13 into overtime to lift the Los Angeles Kings to a 4-3 win over the Edmonton Oilers in the opener of their NHL playoff series on Thursday night. 
Robitaille, who tied the game at 3 with a goal at 12:07 of the third period, took a pass from Wayne Gretzky and shot from the left side about 40 feet out. 
The shot beat Bill Hanford over his right shoulder to give the Kings a 1-0 lead in the best­of-7 Smythe Division finals that will continue with Game 2 in Los Angeles on Saturday night. 
Robitaille's two goals gave him six for the playoffs. 
Trailing through two periods, the Oilers scored two straight goals in the third to take a 3-2 lead but a power-play goal by Robitaille tied it. 
Edmonton's Petr Klima broke a 2-2 tie at 5:34 with his second goal of the playoffs. He skated into the Kings' zone on a breakaway but his shot from about 15 feet out bounced off the right crossbar. He got the puck back, skated into the slot and tucked a shot around Kelly Hrudey's glove side. 
It was the first goal since Game 1 against Calgary for Klima, who led Edmonton with 40 goals. 
Robitaille evened it at 3-3, scoring from the crease on a tip-in of Steve Duchesne's shot from the right point. 
Earlier in the period, Edmonton made it 2-2 with 20 seconds gone when Mark Messier, skating across the crease, knocked in a loose puck. The play started when Norm Maciver's shot was saved by Hrudey, who then misplaced the puck in the crease. 
The Oilers went with Bill Hanford in goal for the first time in this year's playoffs. Hanford replaced Grant Fuhr, who had started all seven games of the first-round Calgary series. 
Patriots considering offers from Cowboys, Falcons for top pick in draft 

FOXBORO, Mass. (AP} -The competition for Raghib "Rocket" Ismail heated up Thursday as the New England Patriots, who hold the top pick in Sunday's NFL draft, considered trade offers from Dallas and Atlanta. 
Sam Jankovich, the Patriots chief executive officer, said he expected pressure to build to complete a deal so the other team would have time to try to sign Ismail before the draft starts at noon EDT. 
Although the situation can 
change, Jankovich said, the Patriots prefer to trade the first pick. Their next choice would be to take Ismail, he said, and the least likely option would be to make another player the top choice. 
Atlanta, which has the third and 13th picks, was the first team to express serious interest in positioning itself for a shot at Ismail, the wide receiver and kick returner who is foregoing his senior season at Notre Dame. 
But Dallas, which has the 

11th, 12th and 14th choices, caught the Patriots' interest with a new proposal Wednesday, Jankovich said. Any trade also could involve current NFL players, said Joe Mendes, the Patriots vice president of player operations. 
Jankovich and Mendes said the current offers could change. 
Asked if he would be satisfied not getting a pick in the top 10, Jankovich said, "there's a noticeable dropoff, but still you're in a position to get yourself some very good football players.'' 
announce Thursday whether he would go to the CFL, but Ed Abram, his agent, had no comment. 
"Our position is if the trade was made to Dallas ... the challenge is to try to sign him before the draft," Abram said. "The Canadian offer is still on the table and quite viable." 
Another of Ismail's representatives talked Wednesday night with Patrick Forte, the Patriots vice president of administration. Abram refused comment on how far apart the sides were. 
In the NFL, Jankovich said, he's surprised the Falcons haven't been more forceful. They have been playing "maybe a little more poker game than" the Cowboys, who have been "very up front," he added. 
"Maybe I'm in error in saying this," he added, "but I also think that the Falcons have felt all along that there probably isn't any other interest out there so why don't they just go ahead and have a waiting game." 
Jankovich is good friends with Dallas coach Jimmy Johnson, who was coach at the University of Miami while Jankovich was athletic director there. Jankovich denied that he and Johnson were playing their own poker game to force the Falcons to improve their offer. 
"That would be the worst thing in the world that we could do," Jankovich said. "I don't think Jimmy Johnson would do it in his best interests because, you know, they feel pretty strong about the Rocket right now. 
"So I think to go out there and say, 'OK, fine, we're doing this 
Something terrible [ U[: happene? that night. 4:45_7:l 
•• -9:45 
ft'lorl"al "thought"& DEMI MOORE [!1$/S: 12:3 

I 

THE FIGHT OF THEIR 
LIVES ~ SI S : 1 : 3 0 

and we're going through the motions,' and then trying to go ahead and force Atlanta, that's not the thing to do and we're not doing that." 
Ken Herock, Atlanta's vice president for player personnel, wasn't about to be pressured. 
"I am not going to be forced into making a deal that I don't have to do," he said. "This isn't a life or death thing for our team." 
Dallas owner Jerry Jones said Thursday morning no trade has been finalized with New England, "but we are discussing it and we should have something resolved one way or the other in the next 24 hours. That's our own deadline because if we're going in that direction then it influences some other things." 
Jankovich said he'd be surprised if teams interested in trading for the right to draft Ismail don't already have a good idea of what it would take to sign him. 
Mendes has a reputation as a willing trader of draft choices. On the eve of the 1990 draft, he sent the third and 29th picks to Seattle for the eighth and 1Oth choices in 1990, a third-round pick in 1990 and a fourth­rounder this year. 
He seemed content Thursday to wait and see how the competition among teams angling for the pick might improve their offers. 
He was cautious about getting "too excited and predetermining the final chapter of the book.... Let it roll out and see how it develops." 
.\... 
EUE: 4:30­
nENACE Radically 6.45 _ B"4
MUJAIIJ New/ • • 
NINJA 
JURTLES _Jj_··_sIs:
n ". , 12:oo­
m .,, · 2:15 
$3.00 
AIISOOws Before 6 om 
EUE: 4:30 
_
7.15_9 .45
ol fhc tamb5 • · 
JOdie ,,, foster I!! SI S: 2:0 0 

MERYL STREEP
DEFENDING 
EUE: 4:45-7:30-9:45
[B]YOUR LIFE 
SIS: 1:45 
ALBERT BROOKS 
11 ~--­!I 
. ( 
page 20 The Observer Frida~ April 19,1991 
-
~ ~
I. Lacrosse faces Battling Bishops 
I 
~ 
\ 
H 
~ \
ll 
I 
I 
\ 
l ( \
') 
ll
Il IIl 
I I 
I 
~, 
I : 
l \ : 
I 
\ 
' 
I. I \ 
I 
I \ 
~ : 
\ 
1 

Observer Staff Report 
Best in the midwest? 

Not yet, but the Notre Dame lacrosse team, 5-5, has its sights set on just that title. But the Battling Bishops of Ohio Wesleyan, who face the Irish in Moose Krause Stadium this Saturday. are one of several remaining rivals to the throne. 
Yet, if recent Irish play is an indication. Notre Dame has what it takes to reach its goal. 
"Our defense has been playing out of their minds these last three games," said captain Mike Sennett, "especially against Denison and Cornell. We played two games worth of defense against Cornell and we basically shut down Denison." 
The Irish, however, cannot afford a defensive breakdown at this point in the season if they wish to return to the NCAA Tournament and establish na­tionwide respect. 
"The season has been a good one," observed Sennett, "but I think that we could be more na­tionally recognized in Division I if we had won some big home games. If we win the rest of our games, we will be the best team 
Houston court acquits receiver Ricky Sanders 
HOUSTON (AP) -Washington Redskins wide receiver Ricky Sanders was acquitted Thursday of failing to aid a person he was accused of hitting with his car as he angrily drove away from a club last May. 
A seven-man, five-woman jury deliberated for just over one hour before reaching the verdict on the charge of failing to stop and render assistance to the parking valet of the topless bar. 
The state dropped the pending charge of aggravated assault, said Assistant District Attorney Marc Brown. 
"I doubt there was any question in (the jury's} minds that there was any crime involved," defense lawyer Randy McDonald said. "It was all just an extortion attempt to get money out of a celebrity." 
A civil lawsuit against Sanders by the parking valet, Azzam Jamus, is pending. 
Sanders was not available for comment, but McDonald said the football player had "been through a tense situation when you have charges like that against you. He finally got a chance to show how ridiculous the charges were." 


really started to put some points on the board. The difference in our play right now is our offense, because our defense has always been there." 
Yet the Battling Bishops promise to live up to their name in putting Notre Dame to the test of battle. Under new coach Lelan Rogers, Ohio Wesleyan has compiled a 7-3 record this season. 
"We're gonna have to have lots of guts, because Ohio 
Wesleyan thinks that they can Kevin Corrigan press us to death," noted Sennett. "We have got to be
in the midwest. We weren't last 
smart and move the ball around 
year, because we lost to 
quickly. We've been working on
Denison and Ohio Wesleyan. If 
keeping our heads in pressure
we get those five wins under 
situations.

our belts coming into the NCAA 
"We can play with them.
Tournament, we will take 
They're gonna run all day and
somebody down, no matter who 
they'll go in streaks if we slow
we play." 

them down. They'll just keep
The Irish, however, are prim­
pushing the ball and try to get
ing themselves for the Ohio 
runs. They're a talented team,
Wesleyan matchup in the wake 
but we'll run with them and
of last season's 16-6 shellacking 
play our own game plan, even if
in Delaware, Ohio. In that 
we are running."

game, the Irish were outshot 
Sennett and the Irish, how­
54-32. but managed to blank 
ever, remain staunchly opti­
Wesleyan (0-for-6) in man-up 
mistic about their chances to
~ situations. 

sweep the midwest going into
"Our offense is clicking now," 
Saturday's meeting. 

explained Sennett. ..We've 
Steinbrenner aide testifies that Spira extorted $40,000 
NEW YORK (AP) -An aide 
to George Steinbrenner said 
Thursday that Howard Spira 
committed extortion in 
February 1990 because he set 
a specific date when he would 
tell the media about his 
dealings with the New York 
Yankees owner. 

Philip McNiff, a chief prose­
cution witness, also said 
Steinbrenner had paid Spira 
$40,000 just one month 
before...It was supposed to be 
over," he said at Spira's 
attempted extortion trial. 

"The circumstances were 
completely different," McNiff 
said. "George Steinbrenner 
did help him and now he's 
coming back for more." 

McNiff, executive vice presi­
dent of Steinbrenner's 
American Shipbuilding Co. in 
Tampa, Fla., made his point 
after 2 1/2 days of cross­
examination by Spira's 
attorney David S. Greenfield. 
Greenfield had suggested 
Purdue 
continued from page 24 
Denise Paulin." 

This is the final tourney of the spring for the Irish. So, that Steinbrenner ignored the Spira's threats for years and that the owner came up with the extortion story to explain to baseball why he paid Spira $40,000. 
Under re-direct questioning by Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregory Kehoe, McNiff said he believed Spira was committing extortion when he threatened in a letter to Steinbrenner to go public with their association on Feb. 15, 1990, if Steinbrenner did not meet with him. 
Never before in the three years Spira tried to get money from Steinbrenner had he stated a deadline for payment, McNiff said. 
McNiff, the former head of the FBI's Tampa office, took the letter to the FBI in February 1990. Thereafter, the FBI recorded conver­sations between McNiff and Spira. 
Hanlon hopes that they play 
well. 

''I'm very encouraged about 
our accomplishments," said 
Hanlon. "We've accomplished 
our goal of shooting less than 
320, and I hope we can shoot 
that this weekend." 


ATTENTION SENIORS! 
SENIORS who want to TEACH IN JAPAN come to the Center for Social Concerns on Monday, April 22, 12:00-5:00 p.m. or Tuesday, April 23, 10:00a.m.-12:00p.m. to get more information and interview. 
TODAY IN BASEBALL 
April19 

1900-The Philadelphia Phillies beat the Boston Braves 19~17 
in 10 innings, to set a major teague record for most runs scored 
by two clubs on opening day. The Braves scored nine runs in the 
ninth inning. to send the game into extra innings. 
192CJ-.Al Schacht, who later became the "Clown Prince of 
Baseball.~' pitched the Senators to a 71"0 victory over the 
Philadelphia Athletics. · 
1938-Emmett Mueller of the. Phillies and Ernie Koy of the 
visiting Dodgers each homered iri his irrst major~league at-bat as 
Brooklyn defeated Philadelphia 12-5. 
1956-The Brooklyn Dodgers beat the Philadelphia Phillies 5~4 
in 10 innings at Roosevelt Stadium in the irrst major-league game 
ever held inNewJersey. . t 
1981-The Oakland A's set a major~Ieague record-which lasted only .one year-as they won their 11th game from the start of the season; 6-1 over the Seattle Mariners in tbeopener of . a doubleheader. Seattle broke the streak bywinning the second 
game.. 3•2.. 

DIREmD BY FREDERIC SYBURG 
APLAY BY BERTOLT BRU:HT ENGLISH VERSION BY ERI~ BENTLEY 
WED., APRIL 24-SAT., APRIL 27 8:l 0 PM SUN., APRil 28 3:l 0 PM 
WASHINGTON HALL 1990-91 MAINSTAGE SEASON 
Reserved Seots $7, Student and Senior Citizen dis<ounts are available on Wed., Thurs. and Sun. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the Lafortune Student Center information desk. For Master(ord and V~., ordel'5 call (219) 239-8128 

--------~--~-~--~-~----------------------­
Friday, April19, 1991 The Observer page 21 
Tigers spoil opening of new Comiskey; Clemens rolls 
CHICAGO (AP) -As openings go, Thursday couldn't have been much worse for the Chicago White Sox. 
Rob Deer hit two home runs and Cecil Fielder and Tony Phillips added one homer each as the White Sox opened their $135 million ballpark Thursday by losing to the Detroit Tigers 16-0. 
"Everybody will remember the first two touchdowns scored on opening day at the new park," White Sox manager Jeff Torborg said. "It was one of those days. Thank God it was only one loss. We couldn't stop it." 
Jack McDowell, who won the final game at the old Comiskey last Sept. 30, was shelled for six runs in the third inning. Detroit added 10 runs in the fourth off Brian Drahman and Bob Patterson. 
"All things considered, it wasn't a good day," Carlton Fisk said. "Every team has games like this. It's just bad that this was opening day." 
The White Sox, who have allowed 26 runs in two losses after opening the season with six straight wins, managed just seven hits ofT Frank Tanana (1­1), who pitched his first shutout since Aug.. 16, 1989, against Baltimore. 
Red Sox 1, Royals 0 

BOSTON -Roger Clemens increased his shutout streak to 2 3 innings as Boston beat Kansas City on an unearned run off Bret Saberhagen. 
Clemens (3-0) won the battle of two-time American League Cy Young Award winners by allowing three hits in eight innings. He walked one and struck out 10, reaching double figures for his second straight game and the 43rd time in his career. 
Saberhagen (1-2) gave up four hits, struck out five and walked one in seven innings, but was the victim of an error by left fielder Jim Eisenreich as the Red Sox completed a three­game sweep. 
Brewers 4, Orioles 3 
MILWAUKEE -Robin Yount hit his second home run of the year with two outs in the 11th inning ofT Jose Bautista (0-1). 
Edwin Nunez (1-0) got the 
victory  with  one  inning  of  
hitless  relief.  He  followed  
Darren  Holmes,  who  was  

perfect for 4 2-3 innings. 
Milwaukee, which didn't give up a hit after the sixth inning, tied the game 3-3 in the seventh as Paul Molitor walked to finish starter Jeff Ballard and Gary Sheffield doubled one out later ofT Mark Williamson. 
Rangers 7, Indians 0 
CLEVELAND -Bobby Witt pitched a four-hitter as Texas beat Cleveland, the third time the Indians have been shut out in nine games. 
The Rangers have won three straight after opening the season with four consecutive losses. Julio Franco drove in three runs with a homer and a 


proudly prGscznts thcz rGturn of 

ThG St. Edward·s Jtall Charity Carnival 

fipril Zl., 1991 on FiGidhouscz Maftll 11:0~0 am -7:00 pm 
In caSQ of rain thG carnival will bG mowd to Sbipan C:Gnbzr 
Sponsored by Junior and Senior Classes 
single. 
Witt (1-1) struck out seven 
and walked five for his fifth 
career shutout. 
Greg Swindell (0-3) gave up 
six runs, five of them earned, 
and six hits in 4 1-3 innings. 
The loss was his first in six 
career decisions against Texas. 
Angels 7, Athletics 1 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Gary Gaetti snapped a tie with his first home run for California and rookie Scott Lewis gave up one run in seven innings as the Angels ended Oakland's seven­game winning streak. 
Lewis (1-0) allowed five hits, struck out four and walked two. The 25-year-old right-hander, who beat out Joe Grahe in spring training for Bert Blyleven's vacant spot in the rotation, gave up only Harold Baines' homer leading off the second inning. 
Gaetti, who left Minnesota after nine seasons and signed with California last January as a new-look free agent, ended a homerless drought of 122 consecutive at-bats by the Angels in the fourth inning with a one-out home run against rookie Kirk Dressendorfer (1-1). 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Cubs 3, Pirates 2 
PITTSBURGH -Rick Sutcliffe pitched six innings for his first victory since Oct. 1, 1989, in a matchup of former Cy Young Award winners and Doug Drabek lost his third in a row as Chicago defeated Pittsburgh. 
Mark Grace and George Bell drove in runs in the Cubs' two­run sixth inning and Doug Dascenzo's grounder drove in the tie-breaking run an inning later as the Cubs stopped a seven-game losing streak in Pittsburgh. 
Sutcliffe (1-0}, who made only two spring-training appear­ances against major-league op­ponents, was 0-2 and pitched in only five games last season after undergoing surgery on his right shoulder. He gave up two runs and four hits, walked two and struck out two in six in­nings for his first victory since beating St. Louis in his final 1989 regular-season start. 
Padres 10, Dodgers 5 
SAN DIEGO -Jerald Clark hit a three-run homer and Tony Fernandez and Tony Gwynn hit consecutive two-run doubles ­all with two outs in the fourth inning -to lead San Diego over Los Angeles. 
Clark's homer ended a 0-for­16 slump, Fernandez extended his hitting streak to 10 games and the Padres roughed up Kevin Gross again to improve to 4-0 against the Dodgers this season. San Diego busted out of a batting slump after scoring only four runs in losing two of three games to Cincinnati. 
The Padres' biggest inning of the year rescued Eric Nolte (2­0), who fell behind 3-0 in the first. Nolte gave up four runs on 10 hits before leaving with two ., on and two out in the sixth. He struck out five and walked none in beating Gross and the Dodgers for the second straight time. 
Darryl Strawberry was 1-for-3, and is now 6-for-31 (.194) with no home runs. 
Garrison treated for dehydration in hometown event 

'l 
HOUSTON (AP) -Third­1 seeded Zina Garrison was upset by Gigi Fernandez and forfeited her doubles event Thursday 
i 
after the Houston tennis star apparently suffered severe
1 
stomach cramps and became ill 
at the Virginia Slims of Houston 
tournament. 

Fernandez, of Aspen, Colo., defeated the eighth-seeded Garrison 6-7, (5-7), 6-1, 7-5 in the second round of the $350,000 tournament. 
Garrison led 5-3 in the third and final set, but lost the next four games as she became vis­ibly ill and tired, bending over between points to try to catch her breath. 
I 
"I haven't talked with her yet, but from what the doctors say, she is suffering from stomach cramps, back cramps and she is throwing up," said Garrison's coach Sherwood Stewart. 
"I think she obviously is feel­
: I \ 
I 
ing the pressure of playing in her hometown and the emotion and the weakness she has been 
\ 
feeling finally caught up with
I 
her." Garrison was admitted to
.I 
West Houston Hospital late Thursday for dehydration after she left the court and began vomiting in the lockerroom. 
"She got dehydrated tonight so we've admitted her and I'm going to pump a lot of fluids into her and she should be able to go home in the morning," said Dr. Jim Sterling, the tour­nament physician who accom­panied Garrison to the hospital. 
Fernandez said she was shaken by Garrison's illness. 
"When you play someone that's obviously tired or ill, it makes you tentative," Fernandez said. "I got tentative at 3-all to 5-3 and I was either overcompensating or not doing enough. 
"It's probably the first and the last time in my career that we've played and she's tired and I'm not. She's one of the fittest players on the tour and she can outplay anybody," Fernandez said. 
Garrison had never lost to Fernandez in seven previous matches. 
"It's my first time beating a top 10 player and it's a good solid win for me," Fernandez said. 
Earlier Thursday, sixth­seeded Sandra Cecchini of Italy defeated Cammy MacGregor of La Quinta, Calif., 6-1, 6-3 to move into the quarterfinals against defending champion Katerina Maleeva of Bulgaria. 
Cecchini, ranked No. 23 in the world, took advantage of MacGregor's erratic play in the 
Loyola 
continued from page 24 


notching her second win in two days, striking out four and walking only one Rambler. 
"For a while, I was really frustrated about my arm. I hated sitting on the bench," Miller said. 'Tve been trying to get back into a groove, and 
t 
with each outing, my arm's 
been getting stronger. I was
l 
pleased with how I did today." 
"We definitely need her to get 
Wish your friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising. Call 239-5303 fQr details. 
back in the rotation," Boulac said. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame goes for wins five and six in a row on the road against Dayton (2-20). Although the Flyers are not having a good season, they do have several solid players, including Jodi Curnutte (10-7, 
1.24 ERA) and Kelly Lyman (.311). 
"The team knows that even though Dayton doesn't have a strong record, they've played people tough," Boulac said. "We know we can't let up if we want to meet our goal of finish­ing the season strong." 


first set. She closed out the first set by serving a love sixth game and breaking MacGregor in the seventh game. MacGregor double-faulted at set point. 
"She was missing a lot in the first set," Cecchini said. "It's hard after you win the first set so easy. You know she's going to play better in the second set." 
MacGregor held her serve in the fourth game of the second set and broke Cecchini in the fifth game to take a 3-2 lead. Cecchini broke back in the sixth game when MacGregor double faulted and hit an overhead er­ror on the final two points. 
Cecchini closed out the match by serving at love and ending it with an ace at the first match point. 
Cecchini is playing in her third tournament this year since taking time off to train. 
"I'm feeling real good but it's going to take maybe two more weeks," she said. "I just need to play tournaments now." 
Ann Grossman of Grove City, Ohio, defeated Great Britain's Samantha Smith 6-4, 6-1 in an­other second-round match and will face second-seeded Mary Joe Fernandez of Miami in Friday's quarterfinals. 
Finals are scheduled Sunday with the champion earning $70,000. 
Plastic Japanese baseball cards debut 

TOKYO (AP) -Japanese Hiromitsu Ochiai and last year's baseball fans have something rookie of the year, pitcher Hideo new to trade. Nomo, better known as "Doctor 
First there was salary arbi­K" for his many strikeouts. tration. Then demands for free Like their American counter­agency. And now, more than parts, the cards will carry the 100 years after the Japanese players' vital statistics, and first played the game, stadium even have space for auto­vendors are preparing to sell graphs. Japan's first official baseball The Japanese cards, however, cards. will not be biodegradable. 
Featured on the cards are the "We did a survey and found color photos of 120 players, in­that Japanese children would cluding such household words prefer plastic to paper, maybe as slugger Kazuhiro Kiyohara, because they are so accustomed three-time triple crown winner to high-tech," said a spokeswoman for Nomura Trading, which is marketing the cards. 
"It also makes the cards look more adult, kind of like the credit cards kids' parents carry around," she said. 
Bringing baseball cards to Japan is the idea of Don Nomura, a former second­stringer for Japan's Yakult Swallows. Nomura now divides his time between business in­terests here and the Class A team he owns in Salinas, Calif. 
RYDER TRUCK RENTAL 

You don't have to graduate 
magna cum laude to show everyone how smart you are. Just rent from Ryder every time you make a move, whether it's across campus, across town, 


RYDER. We're There At EveryTurn~ 
MOW-Ill A 4-11 



Friday, April19, 1991 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Time after Mardi 56 Exaggerates
Friday 
Gras 59 An anagram for
7 and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Henry and June... Annenberg 1 Guitarist Atkins teas
34 Artfully shy

Auditorium, Snite Museum. Sponsored by Notre Dame 5 Rome, to 
60 Circe, for one
35 Critic Faure
Caesar

Communication and Theatre. 
61 Outstanding9 Loathe 36 Foretold 62 Cheese burg
7·30 and 11 p.m. Film, "Dances with Wolves." Cushing 13 A Saarinen 38 Beget 
63 Termini Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 14 Bathsheba's 39 Biog. note for 64 Barasingh or mate Plutarch pudu 8 m Saint Mary's Theatre, "Independence•." directe,d 15 Marcuse's "-40 Color b k~b~rts Rude. Q'Laughlin Auditorium, Samt Marys 
and Civilization" 41 Word with headc~llege. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College. 16 Making or mint DOWN 1 Give up
saturday . harmless 42 Act more 2 Mother of Ares
11 a.m.-1 :30 p.m. AnTostal picnic, Stepan Field. 19 Corrode conservatively 3 Part of Q.E.D.
North and South Dining Hall will be closed. Sponsored by 20 People of 46 Oleron or de Re 4 Drag
University Food Services. intelligence 47 Simmons's s Lobbyist's
21 Sprang "Never-Say­activity
12 p.m. Fifth annual Fisher Regatta. Sponsored by 22 Attenuated --Book" 
6 Lavabo, e.g.
Fisher Hall. 23 Kind of boy 48 Pesky insect 7Words from 
24 Quitting 51 Reprove Scrooge
7 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Henry and June." Annen­
32 Charms of sorts 53 Violinist Bull a Pronoun for a
berg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Sponsored by ND Com­
calico cat
munication and Theatre. 
9 Host at San ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Simeon
7:30 p.m. and 11 p.m. Film, "Dances with Wolves." 
1oLate satirical
Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by SUB. 
cartoonist 
11 Outfits 26 Actress Louise 41 "Apocalypse 51 ChatterFriday 
Now" actor
12 To be, to Brutus 27 Of yore 52 Wrangle 43 Brave's home 53--da caccia
14 Loosen, in a 28 Society-page
2 p m Lecture "The Kennedy Administration, The 
way word 44 Officials in old 54 Only
State ·a~d The Politics of Prosperity,~ Professor Amy Rome
17 "A man's house 29 More gelid se Oenochoe
Davis Purdue University. 114 Pasquertlla Center. Spon­45 Tyre's neighbor
--castle": 30 Former tennis 57 Monogram of
sored' by the Department of History. Coke 48 Goods: Abbr. Prufrock's
star Gussie 18 Gounod opera 31 Oglers 49 Angered creator 
22 Shrill, piping 36 Zygoma, e.g. 50 Computer input 58 Type of fly
MENU 
note 

37 Yoko 23 Camber 
38 Item on a calico Answers to any three clues in this Notre Dame 24 Terror cat puzzle are available by touch-tone 40 Mah-jongg phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each device pieces minute).
Baked Pollack Quiche Lorraine Pasta Bar . Grilled Pastrami and Swiss Cheese Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Cheesy Mushroom Burger Broccoli Cheddar Quiche Baked Perch Deli Bar 
JAY HOSLER
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON ~S~PE~LU~N~K~ER!_____________l 


················································~·······-:
• _. MOVIES: • 
• -THURS 18-HEATHERS 8 AND 10:~.:> PM ANTOSTAL '91 PROMOTIONAL PRIZES • 
• -FRI19&SAT20-DANCESWITHWOIVES GIVENAWAYTONIGH":-AT e 
• 
"'"'"""""'""'" 7:30 AND 11 PM THE WHALERS SUNSPI SH PARTY-e 

• 
CUSHING AUDITORIUM $2 S1EPAN CENfER e 

• 
POPCORN $1 e


e ~"fAL,. e 
. ~ ~~ . 
• Z~ \"'"•'L.. Mr. AnTostal says, "Everyone enjoy the show........it's what YOU make of it!!!! e
Cl:ifl ~-. e
: ~.~ :
• I O.q unlil -The Besl College Sp,ing ~Peslit~all·!• 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••: 


Sports 
page 24 Friday, April 19, 1991 
Irish rally in 8th to
Men's tennis hopes to move closer to NCAA bid 
down Wolverines 
By JENNIFER MARTEN street-smart player. Sports Writer Causing trouble for sophomore Special to the Observer Andy Zurcher will be Doug The Notre Dame baseball
The Notre Dame men's tennis Campbell. Campbell, a transfer team rallied for seven runs inteam will travel to Ball State from Ohio University, won the the top of the eighth inning tothis weekend hoping to move Mid-Atlantic Conference singles 
overcome a 5-4 deficit andanother step closer to an invi­championships while he was earn a 11-6 victory over
tation to the NCAA tournament. there. 
Michigan yesterday at Ann
The Irish will use the same Completing the singles match­Arbor. 
line-up that was successful ups, sophomore Ron Rosas will against Michigan earlier this face Paul Kruse, a transfer from •Butler preview/page 17 week. Junior Dave DiLucia will Navy. Kruse has an aggressive The Irish (22-12) comeback start at number-one singles. He serve and volley style that could took starter David Sinnes off will face Dan Kronauge who is be hard to handle. the hook and made a winner of ranked sixth in the Midwest this Doubles competition could Alan Walania (7 -4), who en­year. prove key to the final score. Ball tered the game in the seventh 
inning. Todd Martin (2-2) tookNotre Dame coach Bob Bayliss State has a great doubles the loss for the Wolverines (21­described Kronauge as a "very tandem in Kronauge and Scott 16).
strong and aggressive kid who Campbell and could give First baseman Joe Binkiewicz can really hit." DiLucia and Coleman a run for continued his torrid hitting yes­
At number-two singles, their money. 
terday, going a perfect four-for­sophomore Chuck Coleman will Last year, the teams fought it four, including three homers­meet Curt Josselyn, a big player out down to number-three dou­
the second time he has hit with solid groundstrokes. bles with the Irish victorious in three home runs in a game. His Ball State's Scott Campbell will the end by a score of 5-4. third homer, off reliever Chris challenge Will Forsyth at third Coach Bayliss has high regard Newton's second pitch of the singles with his powerful serve. for the Cardinals. "Ball State game, capped Notre Dame's Sophomore Mark Schmidt will has a great work ethic. They seven-run eighth. In his last ten games,
also have his hands full when he ask for no favors and they give Binkiewicz is 18-31 (.581), with faces Brian DeVirgillio, a crafty, none," said Bayliss. 
see MICHIGAN/page 17 
Women's golf travels to 
Softball squad trounces Ramblers 
Irish pound out 21 hits in sweeping twinbill from Loyola
Purdue tournament 

four runs in the top half of the
By RENE FERRAN 

By ANTHONY KING ..We're capable of defeating first. Alvarez led ofT with one of
Assistant Sports Editor all of these teams," said coach 
Sports Writer 

her three hits, and two outs
Hanlon. "If we play the way later, Megan Fay singled. Casey The Notre Dame women's we're capable of, we'll be in
T 
Ask and ye shall receive. 
McMurray tripled them bothgolf team hopes to continue the hunt for the tournament. 
Notre Dame softball coach
I 
home, and after Laurie
their winning ways this Purdue and Missouri will be 
Brian Boulac was hoping that 
Sommerlad walked, Stephanie
his team's hitting would
weekend, as they visit West our main competition." 
', j 
Pinter hit another three-bagger. 
awaken from its season-long
Lafayette, Indiana to compete The Irish will be led by Alvarez singled, stole second,in the Purdue Spring sophomore Kathy Phares, who 
slumber. Yesterday afternoon, 
and came home on Lisa Miller's Invitational. has led the Irish in scoring in 
he got his wish . 

d.,·. 
RBI-single to build the lead to 
__ l 
The Irish rapped out 21 hits
The Irish will play 36 holes eight of her 15 appearances. 
\~ 
5-0 in the second inning. 
and scored 20 runs in crushing 
on Saturday and 18 holes on She will be accompanied by 
Notre Dame put the game
Sunday. They will face host sophomore Cappy Mack, 
Midwestern Collegiate Confer­
away in the third, exploding
Purdue, Bradley University, senior captain Roberta Bryer, 
ence rival Loyola (Ill.) 8-1 and 
three runs in the third and four
DePauw, Franklin College, senior Pandora Fecko, Junior 
12-0 in a doubleheader in 
Carrie Miller 

in the fourth to open up the 12­Luther College, Tennessee Allison Wojnas, and freshman 
Chicago. 

0 margin. The game was calledTech, the University of newcomer Denise Paulin. For .. Offensively, we did very to 5-1 in the fifth when Crossen, after the fifth inning. 
Indianapolis and the Paulin, it will be her first 
well," Boulac said. "We hit the Ronny Alvarez and Miller all
I 
..Missy pitched very well (inball a lot better and were more singled and the RamblersUniversity of Missouri. tourney.
1 l 
game one}. She really gave us aThe Irish are coming off a ..Phares and Mack continue aggressive than we have been committed two errors. Notre
!' 
great performance," Boulac
victory at the Bradley Lady to lead our group," explained lately." Dame then tacked on insurance 
said. "Then, we turn around
Braves Invitational, where Hanlon. "But the rest of the 
In the opener, Loyola (14-18) runs in the sixth and seventh and get a two-hitter from Carrie 
they beat the Lady Braves. team is contributing too. 
scored first in the second inning innings to wrap up the win for (Miller)."
They also defeated Purdue last Pandora Fecko has been on an unearned run, but Notre Missy Linn (10-10). 
I\ 
Miller, returning to the rota­fall, but in a recent playing well lately, and Bryer Dame (23-19) quickly countered ..We finally came around of­
i 
tion after experiencing shouldertournament, the Boilermakers is playing solid golf. Allison in the top of the third. Rachel fensively," Miller said. "We and arm problems earlier in theplaced above the Irish. scored the low round for the Crossen led off the inning with hadn't been hitting well lately, 

season, celebrated her 19th
Coach Tom Hanlon believes nine holes of the shortened a single, and Ruth Kmak and but I knew it was just a matter 
birthday a day early. She
that they can win their fourth Bradley Invitational, and I Carrie Miller followed with of time before we finally started followed up her two-for-threetournament title this weekend. have great expectations for 
back-to-hack RBI doubles to hitting." 
performance in the opener bygive the Irish the 2-1 lead. The Irish jumped all overBut, he thinks that they must 
see PURDUE/page 20 see LOYOLA/page 22 
continue to play well. 

They extended the advantage Loyola in game two, scoring 
Heavyweight title bout is 1991 's Battle of the Ages 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) -champion. The moment is at hand for So he simply became cham­George Foreman to make box­pion by knocking out James ing history or be exposed as a "Buster" Douglas in the third fat old fighter. round last Oct. 25, although 
The land of Oz for the 42-most of the attention was fo­year-old, 257-pound Wizard of cused on Douglas' flabby 246­Self Promotion will be the pound body an his shameful ef­Convention Center. fort. 
At the end of the yellow brick For Holyfield to keep the most road paved by hand-picked op­lucrative title in sports, he must ponents stands Evander beat a man who has made Holyfield, the unbeaten and un­himself the standardbearer for heralded heavyweight the middleage-spread set. champion of the world. ..What kind of credibility will I 
The 28-year-old, 208-pound get beating George Foreman?" Holyfield toiled for several Holyfield asked. "Probably years as a champion in that none." boxing wasteland called the Holyfield will have a dandy cruiserweight division. credit rating, though. 
Relinquishing the cruiser­He is assured of at least $20 weight title and becoming a million. Foreman is guaranteed heavyweight, Holyfield was $12.5 million. ridiculed as being a blown-up 
see FIGHT /page 18
fighter, too small to become a 


/ 








