

IIU•IU2 Sl SQUICI NIINNIAL 
VOL. XXIV NO. 37 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1991 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Thomas case now in hands of Senate 
WASIIINC;TON (API Supporters of' Clarnnen Thomas workPd Monday to presnrve SPnatP. support for his Supreme Court nomination as sPnators "pairwd and pnrpiPxNI" by sex­ual harassnwnt allegations de­cidPd how to votP. 
A key Southern Democrat, Snn. J. BPnrwtt Johnston of l.cnfisiana. rnaflirmed his sup­port for Thomas, saying the al­legations by University of' Oklahoma law professor Anita llill had not ehanged his mind about ttw nomination. 
"I believe Judge Thomas is qualilind. I said so two weeks ago. I know nothing that has transpired in tho meantime to tah away from that." said Johnston, who led a group of Southern l>mnoerats to oppose Hobnrt Bork 's failed Supreme Court nomination in 1987. 
But others were wrestling with tlw issue as another fornwr aide to Thomas. Sukari Hardnett. told the Associated Press that black women in his ortke at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission felt they wern objncts of his snxual intnrest and physieal inspeetion. 
"I am generally undecided," said Sen. J. James Exon, D­Neb., who had been a Thomas supporters before Hill's allega­tions surfaeed. 
Sen. Christopher Dodd, 0­Conn., said in a news confer­enee Monday that the three days of testimony left him un­deeided going into Tuesday's vote. 
"I was so disturbed over the events this weekend that I'm literally. entirely in the unde­cided category," Dodd, who had previously been leaning toward Thomas, said at a news conference in Hartford, Conn. 
Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D­Conn., who had originally been a Thomas supporter, said the hearings left him undecided. 
''I'm as pained and perplexed as the rest of America," Lieberman said on NBC. "It's quite possible ... that we're not able to decide that anybody is lying," he said. 
Sen. Dennis DeConcini. D­Ariz., another Thomas sup­porter, predicted the Senate would approve the nomination in a vote that both sides ex­pected to be close. 
The vote was scheduled for 6 
p.m. Tuesday after eight hours of time for debate. 
"This is a cliffhanger if there ever was one," said Nan Aron, executive director of the anti­Thomas Alliance For Justice. 
"I believe Clarence Thomas. The American people believe Clarence Thomas. I have no idea where the votes are," said Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., the nominee's mentor and cham­pion on Capitol Hill. . 
President Bush, who returned early from a three-day weekend 
University task force studies cultural diversity on campus 
By LAUREN AQUINO Assistant News Editor 
A Task Forc:H on Cultural Di­
vPrsity has ht•nn formed in 
order to Pxamirw multieulttrral­
ism at NotrP Danw. 
Tlw task l'orl'e was estab­
lished by llniwrsity President 
Fathnr Edward Malloy and is 
ehairc~d by lloland Smith, the 
nxeeutivn assistant, and Father 
Hichanl WarnPr, eounselor to 
tlw prc~sident. 
Tlw Task Foree. which is 
madP up of about 20 mnmbers, 
was !'hosen by Malloy from 
faeulty, staff. and administra­
tion. as well as from under­
graduate and graduate student 
bodies. In addition. there are 
rnpresentativns from estab­
lished and rneognized student 
groups with nxpnrilmcn on this . topir. The purposn of this task force 
is to "revinw present affairs at promoting eultural diversity and to make recommendations for future action," explained Malloy in his open letter on cultural diversity. 
So far this year. the task force has had four meetings which concentrated on organizing tlH~msnlves and elearly nstablishing spncilie goals, said Joe Wilson, a student member of thn task forr.n. 
The task force divided itsnlf into three subcommittees, eaeh of whir.h has their own focus and issues to investigate, ae­eording to Wilson. The groups will investigate the Hatch Re­port, a 1987 report on cultural divnrsity, Structure and Proce­dure. and Environment and Culture. 
In the rer.cnt months, the University has been accused of demonstrating a lack of progress with regard to cultural diversity. For example, the coalition Students United For Hespeet (SUFH) deplored the laek of minority faculty and complained about a laek of re­sourr.es for minority students hnre. 
The Task Force plans on ad­dressing issues broug)1t up by SUFH last year, Wilson said. This year some of the members arc planning on sight visits to other universities in order to get outside ideas for future ac­tion. 
The task force will make pe­riodic and regular reports to M1tlloy. as well as submit a written interim report before the spring semester and thnn a final report by the end of the 1991-92 academic school year. Both the interim report and the final reports will be made available to the Notre Dame community. 

New group helps NO students achieve 'personal growth through the use of art' 
By HEATHER TREMBLAY News Writer 
A new group on campus is using art to help students get in toueh with their feelings and problems. 
The group, which advertises "personal growth through the usn of art," is run through University Counsnling Center by Psychologists Wtmdy Settle and Sally Coleman. 
The term "art therapy" does not neeessarily describe the group, Coleman said. "We are therapists, but we are not art therapists. We don't want to misrepresent ourselves." 
Although people are used to expressing feelings through language, Coleman said art is proving to be an effective way to express feelings. 
People learn a great deal about themselves through the art group, according to Coleman. Seeing their feelings through art helps many people realize strengths and insecuri­ties hidden before therapy, she said. 
Through this group students "by-pass their defenses and find a spiritual level and a new part of their consciousness," Coleman said. 
Students may join the group for many different reasons, such as relationship problems. Participants will often discover that the problems they are ad­dressing are rooted in their childhood. she said. 
The first project for this year was designing a coat of arms, Coleman said. Each person in the group created their own coat of arms, including symbolic drawings about themselves and their lives. 
After the projects. were fin­ished, the group met to explain their drawings and the mottos they devised to correspond with the project. 
One does not have to be artis­tically inclined to participate in this program, Coleman said. 
The emphasis of the experi­ence is not on the quality of the art itself but on its therapeutic value. Many times, the symbols and eolors used by participants are the most telling components of the projects, she said. 
Eight students and two ther­apists currently make up the group, meeting once a week in a confidential setting. 
The group has no openings for this semester but will be of­fered again next semester. Anyone interested should call the counseling center at 239­7336 for more information. 

at Camp David to direct the lobbying effort, said support for Thomas was still "holding strong" despite the explosive allegations of llill. 
"I am very pleased with the way support all across the country is holding strong for Judge Thomas," Bush said. re­ferring to a flurry of last-minute public opinion polls showing Americans believed Thomas' firm, flat denial by roughly a 2­1 margin. 
Hill returned to her home in Norman, Okla., where she reit­erated her charge and r.hastised Republicans for attacking her character. 
"I am not imagining the con­duct to which I testified," she said. "The personal attacks on me without an iota of evidence were particularly offensive," she told a news conference. "I had nothing to gain by subject­ing myself to the process. In fact, I had more to gain by re­maining sil!mt." 
Meanwhile, Hardnett, anothnr former assistant to Thomas at the EEOC told Senate invnstiga­tors that some black womnn who worhd in his offici' fnll they were "an object of sexual interest" and physical inspec­tion by him. 
Hardnett, who worked for Thomas from 1985 to 1986, did not allege sexual harassment but said, "If you were young. black, female and reasonably attractive, you knew full well you were being inspected and auditioned as a female." 
Hardnett, who was inter­viewed by Republican and Democratic committee staff members after writing to the panel, was available to testify but was not called, largely be­cause the panel was running out of time, said a Democratic r.ommittee aide who spoke on 
see THOMAS/ page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Turn on the radio to listen to the lonely DJ 
Right about now, I am sitting down to my radio show. Beginning at 1 p.m. on Tuesday afternoons, I spin records and compact discs for two hours, and I have a great time. Except something is missing. No one is listening. Rolando de Aguiar 
These two hours of 
Sports Copy Editor

solitude are a great way to relax. I get to play music I enjoy in an environment which makes me feel as if I were all grown up. I have a very profes­sional-looking microphone in front of me, two state-of-the-art turntables flanking me (i turntables can still be called state-of-the-art) and a three-foot wide panel of knobs at my fingertips. Two CD players usually sit at arm's length. but one is on the fritz (as usual), so I'll have to do without digital technology for a day. 
And for another day, I'll have to deal with the disheartening fact that no one is out there to hear my resonant tenor and intriguing music over the airwaves. The students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's just don't want to hear me. 
I know that it's probably not my fault. Most o my potential listeners are in class, learning. They doze off as Doctor Who goes over the past semi-semester of material in some class they regret ever having DARTed. The midterm is Thursday, and the review is essential. 
But as they daydream in a stifling classroom, I am playing Husker Du. As any individual with a grain of common sense knows, there are few experiences on earth which can compare to the ecstasy of listening to Husker Du. While I enjoy the distorted guitar, the average student bakes in a lecture hall. 
I continue my show, playing Nirvana, the Poster Children and the Blake Babies, while my potential audience leaves the oven and fights the icy wind back to the dorms. Then they sleep, study or watch General Hospital. 
For SQme reason, I talk on the air. Between songs, I plead for requests. I play segues read by such influential Americans as Charles Kuralt and Spike Lee. Occasionally, I crack a joke. I tell of upcoming concerts. I forecast the weather as well as Willard Scott does. I plead for requests again, and spin another tune. 
I finish my show, put my records away, and look at the request log longingly. I wonder what it would feel like to write something in that book. Someday I will know. 
It seems like my show has everything good radio needs. It has a great name, The Manic Hispanic. It is set in a time slot during which people are actually awake. I've got a good voice, I don't mess up too frequently, and usually, I know what I am talking about. 
The radio station for whom I spin my tunes, like so many of the artists it promotes, seems to be on the brink of something big. You see its name everywhere, from the cover of Scholastic to concert posters. But the Voice of the Fighting Irish needs two things before it can get an FM frequency. There is one on each side of your head. 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those ofauthor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: Production: News: Melissa Cusack 
Paul Pearson Cynthia Ehrhardt Julie Barret Lab Tech: 
Sports: Sean Farnan 
Rich Szabo Ad Design: 
Accent: Kathy Benz Jahnille Harrigan Molly Belden 
Merideth McCullough Scoreboard: 
Cheryl Moser Jen Marten 
Viewpoint: Systems:
Matt Helminiak 
Cesar Capella Graphics: 
Jon Halloran Anne Marie Conrado 
Pat Barth 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer is a member of the Assoctated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
H l 
79 57 
78 49 
63 45 
57 40 
58 46 
78 68 
71 34 
58 41 
88 78 
88 71 
60 47 
63 52 
82 63 
68 50 
83 70 
87 70 
59 40 
64 52 
61 41 
73 57 
63 53 
79 56 
75 48 
61 49 
72 58 
DC 65 42 
··::::;:;:: 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Burmese dissident wins Nobel Prize 
•oSLO, Norway -Burmese opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi, who has been under house arrest for two years for her struggle to achieve democracy in her homeland, was awarded the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize on Monday. The Nobel Committee acknowledged that Suu Kyi may not know of her $1 million award. Burma's military junta bars her from receiving visitors or communicating with outsiders. Suu Kyi, 46, the daughter of Burmese independence hero Aung San, won for insisting on non-violent means to bring democracy to her impoverished South East Asian homeland of 40 million people. Her party, the National League for Democracy, overwhelmingly won parlia­mentary elections in May 1990, but Burma's generals have refused to end their repressive rule and let the opposition party take power. This year's Nobel Peace prize is the first won by a Burmese and the fifth for Asia. 
NATIONAL 
OF INTEREST 
•The 
Senior Rap Up signup deadline has been ex­tended to today. Sign up at the CSC. 

•seniors 
can attend an information session concern­ing post graduate volunteer activities today at the esc from 4:30-5:00 p.m. 

•A 
van drivers training seminar will be offered to all those who have not previously attended and are planning to request use of the Center for Social Concern's vans. The course will be offered today at 5 


p.m. at the CSC. This seminar is mandatory for all students expecting to drive a van. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/October 14 VOLUME IN SHARES 
NYSE INDEX *·'· 
130.11 Million 212.57 v 2.50 S&P COMPOSITE 386.47 it 5.02 OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,019.45 .. 35.77 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD. $ 1.00 to $358.90/oz. 
SILVER. 5¢ to $4.097oz. 

and philosopher, died in 1626 without ever visiting Virginia. The idea that his manuscripts were buried at Bruton Parish arose in 1938, when the church permit­ted an excavation sought by a Christian mystic who said she deciphered the location from codes in other 17th century writings. That dig found no vault. However. su~face engineering tests in the 1980s indicated a large obJect -perhaps a boulder -is about 20 feet below ground. The church's governing board is considering paying for a professional archaeological excavation to put an end to the claims it says are based on mystical calculations without scientific or historical basis. 
•WA HINGTON-Defense Secretary Dick Cheney departed Monday for the first major NATO session held since the Soviet coup and President Bush's initiative to slash superpower nuclear arsenals. The session, scheduled to be held in Sicily on Thursday and Friday, will focus on how NATO's nuclear forces can .he shaped an~ 

adapted to reflect the changed security requirement in Europe in light of the demise of the Warsaw Pact. Alliance sources, speaking in Brussels, said that NATO was ready to make deep cuts in its arsenal of nuclear gravity bombs, perhaps even slicing it in half. Analysts have estimated that the alliance has about 1,400 such weapons, which can be delivered from aircraft that can carry either nuclear or conventional arms. 
•Urban 
Plunge informational meeting will be held tonight at 7 at Saint Mary's College, Haggar Parlor. The U~ban Plunge will be explained and former participants will be on hand to answer questions and share experi­ences. 

•A 
meeting with police officers and representa­tives from the South Bend Legal Department to discuss security services over break, Neighborhood Watch pro­grams and party guidelines will be held tonight at 7:30 in the esc. 

•Freshman 
mugs can be picked up in room 201 in the Administration Building. Please bring your card to pick up your mug. 


ON THIS DAV IN HISTORY 
•In 
1937: The Ernest Hemingway novei"To Have and Have Not" was first published. 

• 
In 1945: The former premier of Vichy France, Pierre laval, was executed. 

• 
In 1951 : The situation comedy "I Love Lucy," starring Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz, premiered on CBS. 

• 
In 1969: Peace demonstrators staged activities across the country, including a candlelight march around the White House, as part of a moratorium against the Vietnam War. 

• 
In 1990: Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev was namedthe recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize. 


-
The Observer 

Tuesday, October 15, 1991 page 3 
Former Lyons rector Jochman dies of cancer 
By LISA EATON perintendent of Schools. She loved the community whole. to be preoccupied with herself," 
Managing Editor In 1986, she took a yearlong aspect. She made friends in so During her five years as rec­Krieg said. "She wanted to keep sabbatical in order to work to­many different areas." tor, she worked towards im­the attention focused on ward her master's degree in "I think of her as an educa­proving the appearance of the others." 
SistPr Jeannine Joehman. formnr rector of Lyons Hall, dind Sunday aftnrnoon after a lnngthy battln against eaneer. She was 52 years old. 
Originally from PPoria, Ill., she graduated from Saint Mary's College in 1956 and be­came a Sister of the Holy Cross in 195S. 
From 1961 until 196 7, she servnd as a grade school t1mcher in Chicago and in Har­vard. Ill. From 196S-1977, she was a prindpal for a number of grade sdwols in these areas. 
From 1977-19S5, she worked for the diocese of Fort Wayne/South Bnnd, first as the Associate Superintendent of Currieulum and then as the Su­applied theology at the Univer­sity of California, Berkeley. 
Jochman then came to Notre Dame in 1986 as a rector for Lyons Hall. 
"She eame to Notre Dame be­cause she thought it would be a good plaee to try to figure out what she wanted to do with her life in terms of her vocation," said Sister Mary Louise Gude, rector of Farley Hall. "It was a wonderful job. She loved it here." 
"She loved the students. She especially loved knowing them over a period of time. She par­ticularly loved working with the [resident assistants] and her hall staff," Gude said. "She re­ally loved being at Notre Dame. 


ND students, faculty sent free postal cards 
Special to The Observer 
More than 14,000 nwmbers of the Notre Dame community rHeHived a special St~squleentennial gift today from the Alumni Assodation. 
As pnrt of this morning's dedieation of Uw NotrH Dame postal card, the Alumni Assoeiation arranged for the mailing of persomilized cards to students, faeulty. stan·. local alumni club presideilts. class prtlsidents and eurrent and former alumni board members. 
The front of thfl card fea­tures a color· design of thH Main Building with a first­day-of-issue (~aneellatlon and a pPrsonal address label. The back of the card carries a Sesquicentennial logo and cancellation, an Alumni As­sociation logo and a message from Chuck Lennon, assistant vice prosident for University Relations and executive director of the Alumni Association. 
Th~~ 19-cent card is the U.S. · Postal Service's salute to Notre Dame's 150th an· niversary. A part of the Historic Preservation Series, the card was scheduled to be dedicated at 10 a.m. today in ceremonies at the .Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Cards and first·day·of·issue cancellations are available to· day at several locations on campus. 

St. Edward's Hall Players Sign-ups for Auditions Friday, Oct. 11th-18th Rm. 215 of St. Ed's 
THE PROBLEM: BLURRY VISION 
THE SOLUTION: PROFESSIONAL VISION 
* 
Eye exams and complete vision care 

* 
Same day service on most prescriptions 

* 
Conveniently located near campus 


200.4 Discount on materials to students and faculty 
~


= -~::::.-­
-=? _.:-­
Professional Vision 
Dr. Ronald Snyder and Associates 
2n-11s1 
VISA Mastercard 
1635 N.lronwood 
and Discover accepted 
North of McDonalds 
tor," said Father Robert Krieg, associate professor of theology and director of the Master of Divinity program. "She contin­ued to bring that model to Lyons Hall. The whole hall community could be involved in the learning experience. She was really proud of Lyons." 
"She had the upmost concern for the dorm. She was always looking out for the people in the dorm," according to Theresa Murphy, Lyons Hall resident assistant. "She was a very good listener and very dedicated." 
"She had a strong presence in the dorm," said Amy Lutz, Lyons Hall resident assistant. "She was soft-spoken, but ef­fective and in control." 
As rector of Lyons Hall, Jochman made many internal changes. Under her direction, the dorm was renovated and a social space known as "The Lair" was created. In addition to the creation of social space, Jochman was continually working to enhance the ap­pearance of the dorm as a chapel and was particularly proud of the Stations of the Cross, which were donated to the hall by the Lou Holtz family last year. 
"She was a big organizer," Gude said. "She was into pro­jects. She brought social space to Lyons Hall." 
Jochman was diagnosed with cancer in 1987. Through treatment, she was able to come into the 1988-89 school year with a clean bill of health. Unfortunately, the cancer re­turned in 1989 and she was un­able to rid herself of it a second time. 
Throughout her illness, Jochman never let her health interfere with her duties as rec­tor. 
"It was her purpose here that kept her going, even though she was suffering and in a lot of pain. l have a lot of respect for her," Murphy said. "She loved the community here very much. She put every ounce of herself into it." 
"She did not want her illness 
"She never felt sorry for her­self. She never complained. She simply endured," Gude said. "I will remember her for her courage." 
She made the difficult deci­sion to resign her position as reetor last summer beeause she felt that she was no longer healthy enough to handle the demands that are placed upon the NO hall rectors. 
"It is amazing that she lasted as long as she did. It was a very difficult decision for her to re­sign," Lutz said. "It says a lot about how much she loved Lyons." 
Since then, she had been liv­ing in a house in South Bend with other Sisters of Holy Cross. On Sunday she was moved to the infirmary at Saint Mary's, where she died a few hours later. 
There be will a wake Wednes­day at 7 p.m. at the Church of Loretto at Saint Mary's. The Mass of Resurrection will take place this Thursday at 10:30 
a.m. at the Church of Loretto. 

Senate discusses businesses 
By BECKY BARNES News Writer 
AdWorks, ND Video and Irish Gardens show a combined profit of $220 for September, reported Student Business Board Manager Cesar Capella at Monday's Student Senate meeting. 
Both AdWorks and ND Video report a loss for the month due mainly to opening expenses, said Capella. They expect to show profit in the future, he added. 
Ian Mitchell, editor-in-chief of Scholastic, the weekly Notre Dame student magazine, also spoke to the Senate about the magazine's plan for a future course evaluation issue. Scholastic had published course evaluations in the late 1960s and early 1970s, but the issue was discontinued. 
The upcoming evaluation, which will be issued in early November, will be in a review format and cover about 200 courses. Mitchell would like to publish a more extensive ver­sion next semester, but publish­ing costs exceed Scholastic's budget. Mitchell asked for 
~ Supportthe 



\Sf:' MaJEl9tQ!!Jles 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 17, to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 

Student Senate's support in a future approach to student government to cosponsor the larger issue next semester. 
The Student Senate Task Force on Crime reported that it is gathering information from congressional offices, think tanks and peer universities. The committee plans on meet­ing with neighborhood repre­sentatives, landlords and city and university officials and ex­pects to produce a reeommen­dation sheet in the future. 
The eommittee is hosting an open discussion with the South Bend Police Foree tonight. 


University creates new award 
Special to The Observer 
A new humanitarian award, interfaith and international in its scope, has been announced by the University President Father Edward Malloy. 
The Notre Dame Award. Malloy said, will complement the Laetare Medal, whieh the University has awarded annu­ally sinee 1883 to an American Catholie distinguished in his or her profession. The Laetare Medalist will eontinue to be named on the fourth Sunday of the Lenten season and receive the honor at the following May commeneement. 
The new award reflects the increasingly global dimension of Notre Dame and will be con­ferred annually on a person who deserves international recognition for contributions to the welfare of humanity, Malloy said. 
Plans call for the Notre Dame Award in the future to be an­nounced on the University's Founder's Day, October 13, and for the recipient to nddress the University eommunity at some time during that aeademic year. 
The first redpient of the new award, however, will be an­nounced later during the University's Sesquicentennial celebration, which ends in November 1992. Malloy has asked the Notre Dame com­munity for nominations for the award. The deadline for nomi­nations is October 13. 

~~~~t!t!~~tti!~ttt.t~.--.-------.-­
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, October 15, 1991 

Security issues dominate Saint Mary's board meeting 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Security issues once again dominated the issues discussed at Monday's weekly meeting of the Saint Mary's Student Board of Governance as Student Body mation from them on how to start our own chapter here," Lowry said. 

Lowry pointed out that one of the goals of the alliance is to form a network of communicat­ing issues of special interest to single sex colleges. 
"We'd like to communicate about visitation hours and se­curity," she said. Instead of working with larger, coeduca­tional universities, "single sex schools of the same size would benefit from discussing their policies and guidelines," Lowry said. 

Other issues covered in the Board meeting included the an­nouncement of an open forum concerning the renovation of the Church of Loretto. Sister Mary Turgi, chair of the reno­vation committee, will address student questions and concerns about the changes to be made in the church, Lowry said. 
Although a date has not yet been set, Lowry said the forum will take place after October Break. 
President Maureen Lowry pro­posed a plan of campus-wide security changes. 
Lowry said the amendments were a result of a tour of the campus she took with Security Director Dick Chlebek to ex­plore areas of potential danger. 
"[The proposal] was a list of all the changes we'd like to see made," Lowry said. These changes include the installation of lights in strategic spots, seven new locations for security phones, trimming of excess fo­liage from hedges and the in­stallation of mirrors in the tunnels. she said. 
Lowry said that after having successfully been approved by the student board, the safety proposal will be subjected to the Fire and Safety Committee today. 
Safety awareness was also, in part, discussed as the Board dealt with the introduction of the Student-Alliance of Women's Colleges, Lowry said. 
The SAWC is an organization geared toward promoting the benefits of women's colleges nationwide, Lowry said. She added that the group is in its beginning stages at Mas­sachusetts' Regis College and that Saint Mary's is communi­cating with Regis about joining the alliance. 
"We did receive some infor-


Thomas 
continued from page 1 
the condition of anonymity. 
The panel also did not hear in person from another former employee with stronger allega­tions against Thomas, Angela Wright. Her private interview with the committee was re­leased as part of the official record. 
The White House strategy was keyed at holding Southern senators with large 'black con­stituencies who accounted for seven of the 13 Democrats who had announced their support for Thomas before the allega­tions surfaced. 
In remarks clearly aimed at these Southerners, Bush said: 
"It's important to note that among Afro-Americans, black Americans, that the support is 

• very, very strong. That is signif­icant and I think highly impor­tant." 
Senate Republicans and the White House were pursuing a strategy of convincing senators that Hill's testimony produced insufficient evidence and that Thomas deserved the benefit of any doubts. 
After her lawyers said Sunday that· she had passed a polygraph test, Republicans raised the possibility that she was deluded mentally. 
On Monday, Republicans tried to impugn her testimony. Danforth's office released an affidavit from a Washington lawyer who said he had given her a poor evaluation when she worked in private practice. 
The attorney, John Burke Jr., said he suggested "it would be in her best interest to consider seeking employment 

elsewhere"  because  her  
prospects at the firm were  
limited.  

In testimony, Hill told the panel that she left private prac­tice for government work be­cause "I was interested in 
Accounting Majors 




e ''Big SOC~ 
Nol~nger theo~ w~y
toce cation 
As a member of Aetna's Internal Audit department you can qualify for CPA 
licensing in Connecticut. 
Aetna's Internal Audit department offers impressive career opportunities, an exceptional professional development program, international and domestic travel, direct involvement with top management, and special consulting and fraud investigation assignments. A position in Internal Audit can lead to key positions at Aetna within 3 -5 years. 
Aetna was recently named by Fortune magazine and The Wall Street Journal 
. -as one of America's most admired companies. Our outstanding compensa­. tion, benefits and training programs were major reasons why. 
We are looking for individuals with proven analytical ability, effective com­munication skills, initiative, flexibility and creativity to join our large staff of audit professionals at our corporate headquarters in Hartford, Connecticut. We'd like to meet you and learn more about your expectations. Look for our information sessions on the following dates: 
.,.. lnfonnation Session 
Thursday, October 17 7:00p.m. Dooley Room LaFortune Student Center 
Check with your Placement Office for further details. 

Aetna is an Equal Opportunity. Affirmative Action Employer. 
..~::~n~~~:~ .~::~~~~::.l:::. ...-....s.tl!f.tJJ.aA;a.l;;t ..... :. .....:.:s~.J.S'J.I.l.J_I·j J ' ••.• ·a :a '-.lll.ll'L'Io.ll.lo.!o..... ,_.......... • • ~ •• < ••• ~ L L' ~ ~ ~ ~ ·-'"· ~~·----........ ....____,_,_._~...._._._,. _._,_ r ~ '
L _ ... .... 
Tuesday, October 15, 1991 The Observer page 5 

The Observer/Jody Bellis Dan lena gives a lively speech at Saint Mary's Monday about sexual assault and self-defense. Dan and Marie lena are coauthors of the book "Sexual Assault: How to Defend Yourself." 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 

~~ 
• 1~000 lba OF~ ~llfi:r 
• 
INDIVIDUAL EXERCISE PROGRAMS BUILD /REDUCE 

• 
ICAIUAN EXERCISE EQUIPMENT 

• 
AEROBICS • ~S CLASSES PER WEEK INCLUDING REEBOK STEP AEROBICS CAM STAR CIRCUIT TRAINING EQUIP 

• 
LOCKER, SHOWER, DRESSING ROOMS 

• 
T .A.NNING (ADDITIONAL) 

• 
SPORTSWEAR (ADDITIONAL) 


©£.1m~®~ 8~~ 
M-F 6:00AM -10:00 PM SAT 8:00 AM -6:00 PM SUN 12:00 P'" ~·00 PM 

POWERHOUSE GYM • 130 WEST EDISON ROAD • MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 

Lenas discuss sexual assault at SMC 
By KARA LINDEMAN 
News Writer 
Rape is the most violent crime short of murder, according to Dan Lena and his wife Marie, authors of the book "Sexual Assault: How to Defend Your­self." 
The Lenas have dedicated the past fifteen years to relaying what they consider their most important message: "You Are Special!" As each has person­ally experienced the victimiza­tion of sexual assault at a young age, they hold a particular interest in helping others by promoting high self-esteem through their national organi­zation, People Against Rape. 
This dynamic duo presented their lively lecture, "Hands Off: I'm Special!," Monday in Saint Mary's Little Theater at Moreau Hall to promote self-esteem and show its relation to sexual 
assault. They use the theme ''I'm Special" to elevate and enhance individuals' self­esteem. 
The lecture, which consists of many short presentations, used humor to convey the serious­ness of the issue of sexual as­sault. For openers, the Lenas played respective roles in a typ­ical sexual harassment scene. Marie Lena responded to her husband's advances with assertive, streetwise methods of self-defense. 
Both Dan and Marie empha­sized that it is important not only to recognize that each in­dividual. is special, but also to know self-defense. "You are nature's greatest gift. You are special!" Dan said. "A diamond is rare and unique and that's how you are," Marie said. 
As for the issue of self-de­fense, Dan Lena said, "Don't let anyone get in your way. Don't let anyone use you for a door­mat." 
The Lenas told the audience about the seven types of rape that exist, which include mari­tal rape, stranger rape, in­family rape/incest, statutory rape, gang rape, acquaintance rape and date rapn. They also spoke of the most common rapist known as the power rapist (the sexually inadequate rapist), the anger rapist (the· assault rapist), and the most commonly read about rapist known as the sadistic rapist (the sociopathic rapist). 
A few important suggestions offered by the Lenas include awareness of one's surround­ings at all times, ability to communicate clearly and assertively with whoever is im­posing on one's safety and se­curity, and remembering to have faith for "everything hap­pens for a reason," Dan Lena said. 
Cuban Congress ends with few changes 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -The Communist Party·in Cuba ended what was billed as a historic congress on Monday with an emotional vow to carry on with the tough, socialist path charted by President Fidel Castro. 
His voice soaring, then some­times nearly breaking, Castro hammered at the need for so­cialism, and even abandoned his traditional closing cry: "Socialism or death." 
"Socialism or death does not apply, because there will be so­cialism at any price," Castro vowed in a speech broadcast live by Radio Havana. 
He said Cuban communists "will seek ways to save the country, to save the revolution, to save socialism." 
Castro himself was re-elected party general secretary in a leadership shuffle that saw a noted moderate, Carlos Aldana, added to the politburo and a few hardliners dropped. 
The party decried the collapse of communism elsewhere in the world as "a political disaster" and insisted that Marxist­Leninist theory "maintains its validity for the workers and people of the underdeveloped countries." 
The major measures ap­proved by the more than 1 ,600 delegates at the Fourth Party Congress had long been dis­cussed. These included direct elections to the National Assembly, opening the party to religious believers and autho­rizing some small private-sector enterprises. 
Apparently not discussed were the issues of central eco~ nomic planning and Cuba's sta­tus as one of the world's last single-party communist states. 
Food and fuel are Cuba's most pressing problems in a world where Soviet communism lies in tatters and, with it, Cuba's main source of imports. The final day of the congress was devoted to Cuban economic strategy. 
The delegates endorsed mea­sures already in effect for more than a year, induding tying pay to production, encouraging foreign investment and increas­ing hard-currency exports such as medicine. 

I99Iifi2m7s(i) T uI992ff.m29BWJ~IB(HJ 
··~OQl/;EjlLi?>h.1t:lll!~1"-l:lllli ~/;lllll •ll"l?ttiHICH ~xtfiU-t!J~;t.-H·~*W ~ffl111il.lllB!I 1.!!:11 lll~ll 1' ;1 1) :tJ • :tJ1"7"tr.:, TEL 1 800 537 2186 (Toll Free Dial) 1'4"'J;:>.h•'.> TEL 0800 89 5404 (Toll Free D1al) 
I~.* 9:00A.M.. 5:30P.M. 8 :U!IIII) 'I!J~;?.-rU.S.A. New York Office I.!! :!I i!JII 7';11J:tJ·:tJ77"fJ•'.> TEL 1 800 344 7241 (Toll Free Dial) 
(}!I :*9:00A.M.-5:00P.M. N.Y. T1me) 


page 6 The Observer Tuesday, October 15, 1991 

The Observer/Jody Bellis 
Finding time to study 

Stacey Turner, an ND student living off-campus, finds time to study for midterms before going to sleep. 


NYU students patrol campus for credits 
NEW YORK (AP) -Twenty years ago, New York University students smoked marijuana and fought cops in Washington Square Park. Today, they're working with the police to drive pot dealers from the park ­and earning academic credit in the process. 
Two dozen have enrolled in the Watch Team, an NYU course that dovetails with Police Commissioner Lee Brown's enthusiasm for "community policing." 
Armed with two-way radios and flashlights and wearing white windbreakers with the words WATCH TEAM, students patrol the park three nights a week. 
Although they're looking for wrongdoing in general, "We basically harass drug dealers," says junior Evan McNeeley. 
"They've definitely helped make the park safer," says Charles Campisi, Sixth Precinct commander. "Students feel safer walking to the library at night." 

Washington Square Park, a haunt for bohemians from John Sloan to Bob Dylan, covers about eight square blocks amidst NYU's campus in Greenwich Village. By day, it is a vibrant melange of tourists, students, families, and marijuana dealers; at night, the latter set the tone. 
"A lot of the time you feel unsafe, especially if the police aren't around," says Becky Goold, a Watch Team member who is studying psychology. 
After some trial patrols last spring, NYU offered a one­credit course this semester. The requirements: 30 hours of patrol (one two-hour patrol a week); weekly classes and field trips to sites such as the morgue and central booking; and a paper or project at semester's end. 
It is the first course of its kind in the city, and NYU officials say they know of no other like it anywhere. 
Campus Ministry 

... considerations 
The occasion of 'National Coming Out Day' and recent campus debate on the 'safe haven concept' offer an opportunity to reflect on the situation of gay students at Notre Dame. 
A 1986 letter from the Congregation of the Faith to the National Conference of Catholic Bishops of the United States declares that "while homosexual inclination is not in itself a sin, neither is homosexual activity a morally acceptable option .... " The letter urges homosexual persons "to form chaste, stable relationships." 
For centuries, the Catholic Church has taught that the only proper place for genital sex is within the permanent bond of marriage and in the context of the potentiality for new life. This sexual ethic applies to all people; in asking homosexuals to live up to this standard, nothing is asked of them that is not asked of heterosexuals or bisexuals. This may be a difficult standard, but it is one which gives witness to the Kingdom of God, proclaimed by Jesus, where heterosexuals alike are called. 
Since Notre Dame is a Catholic University, the official perspective 
of the institution toward homosexuals is that of the Catholic 
Church, namely, that while homosexual orientation is not sinful, 
homosexual acts are. 

The same is true, of course, for those who might seek the Church's ethical approval of heterosexual acts outside the permanent bond of marriage. 
An impasse can be reached in dialogue with either group or 
situation, since Catholic teaching does not sanction as morally 
acceptable or neutral a sexually active lifestyle outside marriage. 
It is important to assert that anything that the Church says to its members or that we say to homosexual students, faculty members, staff or alumni, must be said with-understanding and with pastoral compassion and sensitivity. Notre Dame must stand with the Church in stressing that homosexuals are our brothers and sisters, and that with us, are the well beloved children of a God whose love for us is without measure, regardless of our sexual orientation. In practice, this means that offensive actions, from thoughtless jokes to harassment, contradict the bases of Christian community. 
When a person becomes a member of a community, and all the 
more so when the foundation is Christian as in our case, there is a 
legitimate expectation that one will live in an atmosphere of peace and security conducive to growth and happiness. At Notre Dame, we should be able to assume this as a baseline, and offer more. 


This means that we are obliged to contribute to the creation of a peaceful climate which helps all the members of our community to develop confidence in themselves and which urges them to be compassionate with others. 
Therefore, to harass, belittle, taunt, scorn or humiliate members of our community who are homosexual because of their orientation i simply intolerable at Notre Dame or anywhere else, and these actions should be rejected by all who bear the name of Christ. 
Our challenge as a community is not simply to avoid doing the wrong thing, but rather to do what is fitting and correct. The Gospel urges us to have the same sentiments towards one another that Jesus has for each of us. 
This means that we should go out of our way to accept, promote and defend the rights of all the members of our community so that each of us can develop our God-given talents for the love of God who created us and in service of our fellow human beings. 
It means that we should scrutinize our prejudices, assess our 
vocabulary and examine our attitudes to see if we are tolerant and 
willing to accept those who are different from us; to see if our 
attitudes toward others reflect, no matter how dimly, those of 
Jesus Christ. 
If we are unwilling to examine our expressed and sometimes 
implicit negative attitudes towards those among us who are 
homosexuals, indeed, even if we are simply reluctant to do so, it is 
only with difficulty that we can call ourselves followers of Jesus 
Christ in any meaningful way. 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 


On October 11-12, 1991, NOTRE DAME will celebrate WORLD MISSION SUNDAY All collections ~ampus-wicle, including at SACRED HEART CHURCH, will be used for the support of Holy Cross missionaries in the developing world. 


The Observer 

Tuesday, October 15, 1991 page 7 

FIG111 ' }o:•IAIJilitv to tailor the Program to your J.ndJVicluaJ interests-concentr-<~.tions 


Changing times mean new lessons for Soviet students 
MOSCOW (API -You can't simply stroll into the Moscow State University library and grab the textbook by American economist Paul Samuelson. You have to put a little peer pres­sure on the student already reading it. 
"You ask how long he will read it. If they say 30 minutes, you look at your watch and wait," says Olga Koshchuk, 20, a third-year economics student. "When the time comes, you tell them they are finished." 
Karl Marx is not through at old MSU, but he does seem to be on academic probation. Lesson plans have been revised. Students form lines in libraries to read free-market primers. 
This palatial showcase of Soviet higher education 

Green card lottery draws 7 million forms 
MEHHIFIELD. Va. (API ­Postal officials said Monday that 2 million applications for green cards have been processed so far from immigrants in a lottery to become one of 40,000 new legal residents of the United States. 
"We have approximately an­other 4 million to 5 million 
The Obae!ver/Jody Bellis

French culture speech (applications) waiting in the 
wings to either be processed or Lynn Hunt from the University of Pennsylvania talks about how verified," said Postal Service French art and literature of revolutionary France reflected the spokesman Robert Faraq at the 
turbulent time period. Merrifield General Collection 
President Mikhail Gorbachev's alma mater -is lurching into the post-Communist era. 
The bulletin boards in Building No. 9, where eco­nomics is taught, are sprinkled with items that offer students a sampling of the Western world. 
An American professor will lecture for 13 days this month. Register in Hoom 507. American University in Washington has 60 economics openings. To apply, pay 125 rubles, about one-third the av­erage monthly wage. 
Vladimir Kazakov, the de­partment's deputy chairman, didn't write the book on Marxist economics. But he did write three textbooks that explained it. Today he studies Samuelson's free-market theories. 

The applications could have been submitted to the Merrifield Post Office as early as 7 p.m. Saturday night. 
People who live far away from Virginia were told to mail applications to friends in the area so the applications would have the Northern Virginia postmark, Faraq said. 
As many as 15 million appli­cations are expected by the time the process ends Oct. 19, officials said. 
Faraq said that as of Monday. the State Department had collected 300,000 documents for review. Another 2 million were postmarked, bound and ready for delivery to the State Department. 
The spokesman said process­ing the applicatic,ms went fairly smoothly, but applicants ex­pressed uncertainty about when 
"We do not live in the past. We live in the future," he says, excitedly throwing file after file on his desk. Each is fat with photocopied pages from American textbooks and their translations. 
A picture of Lenin in the bookcase behind him peeks over his shoulder as he auto­graphs an obsolete textbook he wrote last year. It is now just another souvenir in a society that peddles the paraphernalia of its Communist past. 
"We are teaching market economics!" Kazakov cries. "We are looking at American textbooks! ThH nHw job of the teachers is to prnsHnt thnse new ideas." 
they should have mailed their documents. 
Burma native Anh Wah said she misunderstood when slw was told applications wnre be­ing taken at midnight Monday, thinking that meant slw could not apply until Monday evening. 
"I am so ups1~t. I misunder­stood. Now I can only pray that my mistake will not be fatal," she said. "I have been here for several years and desire noth­ing more than to be an American." 
Faraq said officials did as much as they eould to advise aliens about the rules. 
"We gave them all of the facts and ... thny had to use thnir own best judgment and mail when they thought it was wise," Faraq said. 
Why settlefor apa!tf
when you can have aball. 
The 6" Meatball Sub Only 





S1.69 
I $1.00 OFF I $1.99 SPECIAL 
I $1.00 off any regular footlong I Buy one regular footlong and large sandwich. Limit five footlong Coca-Cola at regular price, get a
I I
sandwiches per order. second regular footlong of equal orI I lesser value or only $1.99. 
I Noe~~~~~~~ ~!~E~p~;':= al I 
I 
Double ...-to not included. Not valid w~h any other discount. • Oller good at 
I all partq,ating locationo. • Expir81 2128192 
I 

facility where the applications are being processed. Many immigrants tried to im­



environm,ent, JwwJ• .imar tnter?wWional relations, r.. Q~~~i~ mana:gtml.flnt, legal policy, ··••e¢<mq;~: d4Vel(;rpm~ education, 
YeS' please send me an application and information on Columbia's MPA Program. 
NAME 
ADDRESS 



MPA Program. Columbia University 
School of lnternatinnal & Public Affairs 
I ~ill ~ttl);$ I ~11J ~I(rtit'il

I 
420 West !18th Street. Rm 1417
I 

New York. NY 11~127, (212) RM-2167 Nam·y Degnan. Assistant Dean ;;:P'"'"H(""JN'""E;;-,-------------­
~----------------------~ 



Viewpoint 
Tuesday, October 15, 1991 Page 9 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ..•...•............•... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .......•.•........ Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .......• Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ...........•••. David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor •.••...........•.... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ..•........ Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller .•......•.•.......... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and obJectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
Since its founding 150 years ago the University of Notre Dame has prided itself on in­stilling a snnse of family in a community whose members conw from aeross the nation and around the world. we n 
llnre. in this idyllie setting the face, and it is frightening. rwstlecl in peaenful Indiana. These crimes far exceed the WP find encouragement and occasional appearance of the support from our neighbors, Blw~ Jogger or the loss of an rnspect from the hiLppy infrequent book bag from the lloosinr natives. and sneurity dining hall. Students often stay· to pursun academic on campus for fnar of misfor­al'hiPVPnwnt. At least. this has tune should they venture into bnnn the goal. town, for any reason. 
Thn alarming mality, how­Access to the University PVPr. is that our community is poses perils for any who hPsPt by tlw ailments whieh would walk. buses to the mall havP lwfallnn othnr parts of or downtown freqtwntly carry tlw nation. dnspite our Notre ridflrs who intimidate Damn idPntily. students. and those who live 
Last year we saw an nnor­off-campus report robbery, mous irHTPasP in vandalism on assault, and mayhem in their rampus. thefts in dorms. and homes. attacks throughout the area. As a University. we are so love. As students, we are determined to take action to protect ourselves. 


To those ends, Student Government has established the Student Task Force on Crime, a commission composed of student senators, hall presidents, and off. campus representativfls. The purpose of this committee is to examine security and related issues, to formulate solutions to these dire threats. and to help implement effective counter-measures. 
Our 11rst concrete step to­ward these goals will be a pro­gram for addressing off-cam­pus concerns. All students liv­ing in South Bend will be per­sonally contacted by mail and invited. In addition, all other students and interested parties are encouraged to attend. 
This program will have a panel composed of the Police Chief of South Bend, Ronald Marciniak, the administrative assistant to the Mayor, Jim Caldwell. officers from the South Bend Legal Dnpartment, and, most importantly. the beat officers who patrol the neighborhoods in whieh Notre Dame students live. 
These representatives will discuss crime prevention, dis­tribute copies of local ordi­nances which affect social gatherings (like noise ordi­nances, what officers look for when determining if a party will be broken up, and other tips), and provide an opportunity for students to meet the officers who will call on their houses when an infraction is reported. 
Campus security will also provide information on protec· tion over breaks and storage of valuables with Security and contacts for Neighborhood Watch programs. This forum. sponsored by Student Government and the Student Task Forcn on Crime, is a tremendous opportunity for students to further protect themselves. 
It will be held on Tuesday, Oct. 15, at 7:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Refreshments will be served to provide an occasion to meet beat officers more casually. Thank you. 
David J. Certo District 1 Student Senator 
Oct. 10, 1991 

Inflammatory remarks do not propose productive debate 
Dear Editor: 
To say that Mr. Paul Peralez's IPUN (Thn Ohsf'rver. Oct. IJ) in­furiated rrw would be an under­statf•mfmt. It is not only his pPrsonal lwlids that I find outraging, hut also in the man­rwr whieh lw expresses them. 
Hather than address the spe­eilic issue of race. or of inter­racial rPlations, or of affirma­tiw action. or of SUFH. or of the welfarP systPm, or of Clarence Thomas' nomination to lhn Suprnnw Court. Mr. Pnra.I1~Z rhos1~ to form a conglorm~rate of all tiii'SP iSSUPS. 
By doing this hn has doutPd a nurnlwr of pNtirwnt issuns and has annihilated any chance for rational ddmtl'. If Mr. Peralez's trun intent was to stimulate an 

DOONESBURV 
active discussion on any one of the myriad of issues he raised, would he not have concentrated on just one? 
I infer from his article that rather than support any of his opinions with evidence, he chos11 to confuse the readers by associating so many indepen­dent issues into one letter. Rather than propose a fruitful debate on the issues. he chose to gain publicity for himself, no mattnr how adverse. 
To reply specifically to Mr. Peralez's incongruous diatribe against. I can only assume, tho entir11 African-American popu­lation, would take countless hours. I will only rebut his first point. 
In his opllning paragraph Mr. 
Peralez boldly states "One of the articles of faith for the black nationalists during the Civil Bights crusade of the 1960's was that the black man would not be liberated until he had lain with the white woman... " 
I can only respond through personal expllrience. Having been raised in Alabama. a state infamous for racism and famous for civil rights activists, I can suggest that. at best . Paul Peralez is mistaken. 
As far as I can tell. from com­municating and interacting with many poor and disadvantaged African-Americans in a daily basis in Birmingham, they are much more concerned about receiving an adequate education to prepare them for employment that will provide a comfortable living, than sleep­ing with white women. 
In the future, should Mr. Peralez choose to discuss such complex and pertinent issu!ls, he should do so in a manner that allows for discussion. lie chose to submit a letter that addressed many diflicult issues that could have led to a great, meaningful debate. 
However, he presented issu!~S in such a way that any conscientious individual who wants to debate the issue cannot do so in a rational fashion. For anyone to respond directly to his inflammatory remarks would only mean participating in an ideological shouting match. 
I believe that if he will, in the future, define his points dearly, individually and succinctly. many pnople will stPp forward and participate in meaningful and productive debates with him. Otherwise, he does an in­justice to the entire Notre Darn!~ and Saint Mary's community who would like to respond to his article. 
I rngret that Mr. Peralez lacks the confidnnc1~ necessary to proposn a congruent argument with legitirnaln support. 
John Paul Kimes Keenan Hall 
Oct.12, 1991 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
HI, OAODY.'
aJ&U, 
010 YOU 
FINO A
}{t/,.t{), 
5MCT­
I OQV'T
JOB?
HeAF<J.1 
MINI?. CAN

I \ I f30RR[)(AJ I YOUR TIC? 
I 


'The only way to get the best of an argument is to avoid it.' 
Dale Carnegie 
Share a smoke, submit a quote: 

QUOTE'S, P.O. Box Q. NIJ, IN 46556 

Viewpoint
Page 10 Tuesday, October 15, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



of the black people 
Dear Editor: 

minds of their own, such that Again, I have been compelled 
they will be able to form to suspend my studies to ad­
opinions that may be contrary dress an entry in The Observer 
to popular belief. To submit to (Oct. 9, 1991). This response is 
this ideology is bordering on to the unbelievably offensive ed­
Communism. itorial written by a young man It is one thing to sit back and named Paul Peralez. tell everyone how terrible 
I understand that everyone is things are for black people (in entitled to their First reference to Mr. Peralez's Amendment right, but I guess statement of Arthur Ashe's 
.. 
I'm a little disappointed at The projections of the fates of black Observer's decision to print males) and another to explain such an attack upon a whole why these things are the way race of people, not to mention they are. No one can come up the attempt to minimize and with a remedy to a problem of trivialize the meaning of a which they do not understand whole movement. the dynamics. 
First, I must dispute Mr. separate themselves from the affirmative action, over the past The fact of the matter is that I submit that Mr. Peralez does Peralez's view of the purpose of oppressor in order to liberate twenty years, has helped white there is such a thing as not understand the dynamics of the Civil Rights Movement. I themselves. If anyone recalls, women much more than it has institutionalized racism and I the problems of black people don't know if he was joking or if white people got very upset helped any other group of will be happy to either explain and to say he has no relevant he was serious, but in any with this ideology, which people. Empirical data has it to anyone who challenges its remedy would be an event, this movement is some­suggests to me that diversity is proven this. It is just that existence, or I can bring in understatement. This being the thing that no one should allow a desirable social setting by affirmative action has been experts on the subject to give case, I don't see how he can to be trivialized. most in our society. It is hardly stigmatized so much that many explicit descriptions and qualify attacks on attempts to 
The purpose of the Civil credible to try to equate this people believe otherwise. explanations as to its existence remedy the problems. I don't Rights Movement was to assure absurd accusation with the Affirmative Action bas not and ramifications. believe that affirmative action, that all people in our country, agenda of the Civil Rights done much, if anything, to Mr. Peralez's statements con­the feelings of black people regardless of race, religion, or Movement, which Mr. Peralez is change things in the private· tradict themselves on several about Clarence Thomas, the sex retained and enjoyed obviously unfamiliar with. sector. A law that is not levels. First, he says that plight of black men or the specific rights. These rights To suggest that black people adhered to or enforced has no Blacks should "...liberate them­meaning of the Civil Rights include the right to an effective should feel euphoric over power. I welcome any selves from the patronizing ad­Movement has touched his life education, the right to vote, the Clarence Thomas' nomination is challenges to my statements. vocacy of the integrationist lib­in any significant way, which is right to be employed and the a clear testimony of Mr. How can Mr. Peralez think erals... ". He then attacks ef­why I am at a loss for right to live anywhere without Peralez's misunderstanding of that he is even qualified to tell forts of blacks to do things and understanding his reasons for the threat of violence. People what the plight of African­us how we should feel? His ex­make change for themselves by authoring such a letter to the may not recall, but many died Americans is all about. periences are not ours. He has charging that the N.A.A.C.P. is a editor. to secure these rights. Thomas' nomination is about no idea of what we have to put separatist organization and His letter hurt many people 
This is hardly something to more than his being black, in up with daily as African­should not be funded by the and embarrassed others. He joke about or to demean. Think case people are baffled over Americans. student government. may have intended to do just about what is important to you Thomas' lack of black support. One cannot take a situation Again, Mr. Peralez is showing that, or maybe he just really and ask yourself whether or not If someone is going to take out of context and make his ignorance as to the facts of wanted to air some of his true you are willing to die so that something away from you, it reasonable conclusions as to the matter. The N.A.A.C.P. is an feelings. someone else may get a chance hardly matters if he is a part of what the appropriate reactions organization that is, and always If the latter is the case, I chal­to take advantage of it. your culture or race. It is should be. This is what Mr. has been multi-racial. Its first lenge Mr. Peralez to a debate to 
Not long ago, Spike Lee said Thomas' ideology that black Peralez has tried to do with his several presidents were white get some of these issues talked that people who have no real Americans have a tough time assumption of how black people men. Catholics and other about in the open, in hopes that argument focus on the trivial in swallowing. It may be wonder­should feel about Clarence Christian churches everywhere some remedies may be found. attempt to make that the issue. ful and noble to hear a black Thomas. have historically supported and If the former is the case, then This is clearly what Mr. Peralez man talk about individual re­I challenge Mr. Peralez to ex­participate in the organization's I would like to congratulate Mr. has attempted to do with his sponsibility and achievement, plain how an Office of Minority causes. Just because a group Peralez for such an effective statement that the focus of the but black people cannot get to Affairs can be said to foster in­disagrees with the President job. Civil Rights Movement was that the point of individual auton­stitutionalized racism. How can doesn't disqualify their Dennis Barnes black men needed to sleep with omy without an effective infras­he make such an accusation, legitimacy as an organization. O'Hara Grace white women in order to liber­tructure, which, by the way, when within the same sentence Many groups have disagreed Oct. 12, 1991 ate themselves. Thomas himself took advantage he admits that he doesn't even with many presidents. You 
In fact, it was Malcolm X who of. know what institutionalized cannot blame people for having 
Demeaning and misguided lies characterize opinions 
Dear Editor: decent human being is being Peralez the tuition bill my better off before the 1960s; a the fact that he has a personal 
For the past year or so I misguided by his treacherous mother receives every time when blacks could not problem with minorities, espe­have continued to sit back and lies. semester which reads the have walked down the streets cially blacks. I cannot imagine watch The Observer space set As for these "affirmative ac­same numbers as he does; without checking they're what someone ever did to him aside for valued opinions, get tion" students who, as Peralez perhaps even more. You may necks for a noose; a time so horrible that he feels he misused and wasted by one puts it ..are robbing whites to think that I am an exception, a when blacks got whipped and must degrade other humans, Paul Peralez. And for the past pay for work they haven't unique case in the matter. beaten by "men of the law" for other divine creations of the year I have done nothing but done," ple-ase show me Well, think again because sitting in the wrong seat; a Lord up above, every chance wait to see what sort of replies where, on this campus, those there are other minorities in a time when water, God's gift to he gets, but I am truly sorry it would be submitted. students are? similar situation. this world, was used as a affects him the way it does. 
Usually, being a double I know that I more than Besides, with the respect torture device for blacks. As I said before, I pray other major of American Studies earned my position into this level he seems to express for students are not as lacking in and English, I find I do not University and the other Notre Dame I cannot believe And even if he is so inclined a Christian heart as he is and have time for such petty eleven universities (seven of you feel the University would to believe blacks are destined are not in any way influenced thoughts. And although I them being Ivy League accept anything less than to get in trouble with the law, by these demeaning lies Mr. finally have put my foot down schools) I was accepted to, quality people to experience at least he now can hear, "You Peralez continues to write. and I am saying "no more," I seeing that I score a 1290 an their quality University, have the right to remain am only doing it to clear up my SAT's and maintained a regardless of their race. silent; You have the right to an K.D. Johnson and comment on these grade point average of 3. 97 Finally, I must say there is a attorney." Pasquerilla East misconceptions Mr. Peralez throughout high school. serious problem if Peralez I believe it is time for Mr. Oct. 10, 1991 holds and make sure no And perhaps I should show honestly believes blacks were Peralez to come to grips with 

Reader supports Peralez letter calling it 'remarkable' 
Dear Editor: kind of "narrow-minded" tradicted by affirmative action, until the Great Depression. But selves in school, work and life 
I would like to say that Paul thoughts that keep blacks "race norming" and the like. by that time, we were already and strive to attain them. We Peralez's article "Notre Dame down. Fortunately, the Supreme the world's number one indus­must all be productive citizens should not support SUFR's It is precisely that type of Court is shooting down most of trial power. This was made by if our nation is to be prosperous agenda" is one of the greatest attitude that will keep them these measures as reverse extreme hard work on the part and powerful. articles I have ever read. Its down. Even blacks that speak discrimination. Opportunity of the entire country, creating It is in our long-term national level of frankness on one of out are merely branded as does exist for all of us out there. something out of nothing, interests and security that we America's most exasperating "traitors." Their continued use But it does require that blacks, making the U.S.A. the great na­pull together, out some of the problems was remarkable. I of perceived or imagined racism and the rest of us, stop making tion that it is today. unum back into our national only wish that I had the courage as a weapon only cheapen their excuses and take charge of our Welfare was designed to motto and all contribute to the to write such an article. cause. own lives and make something assist the elderly, the disabled, well-being and productivity of 
Unfortunately, Paul, myself, Martin Luther's main point, in happen ourselves via endurance etc... It was not meant as a our country.and anyone else who agrees fact the point of the whole Civil and effort. This is the spirit of crutch or alternative to working Jeffrey O'Donnell with the article will simply be Rights Movement, was that race Booker T. Washington. for the able-bodied. Grace Hall branded "racists" and be and color should not matter. For all intents and purposes, All members of our society Oct. 10, 1991 pointed at as examples of the This is being blatantly con-welfare did not exist in America must set high goals for them­
, , I. . I' 


Viewpoint
Tuesday, October 15, 1991 Page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Letter to editor was twisted, 'goading rhetoric,' not opinion 


Dear Editor: print. I would think that a col­Despite what the law states, I People's minds are so en­held responsible if this letter 
On Wednesday, Oct. 9, 1991, lege newspaper has a responsi­believe that the editors of The trenched in the ideas of oppres­proves successful in its purpose The Observer printed yet an­bility to the students it serves, a Observer must be held morally ·sion that they do not see the to incite anger, disruption, and otlwr lettor by Mr. Paul Peralez. responsibility to distinguish responsible for their actions. twisted violence of a letter like possibly even violence? Oneo again, he produe~~d a well­between a writer offering an Over the past years Mr. Peralez Peralez's. The cartoon (which Will it be the author of the writtnn, earnfully-ealculated, opinion, and one whose purpose has come to their offices with was not a creation of Mr. letter? Will it be those who are ynt twistnd, unfounded and ma­is to attack and enrage a many letters, several of which Peralez's, but someone on The incited to act with emotional licious article nwant to incite certain group of people. have denigrated and misrepre­Observer stafD that accompa­impulsiveness? Better yet, will the anger of the Afriean­I went to Notre Dame's Law sented African Americans and nied his letter bears this out. it be· the newspaper that ArnHriean community on earn­Library in search of evidence to their historical struggles. While I applaud The ignored its moral responsibility pus. support this belief. l found All of his letters, however, Observer's apology for the to distinguish between opinion 
Mr. Peralez, howevnr, is not none. In fact, I found the have not been printed, so it cartoon, the action comes too ' and goading rhetoric, the tho problem. llis views are opposite. With regard to would appear that someone at late. If the editors had taken newspaper that ignored its WPII-known to most students at "letters to the editor," The Observer has recognized care of their moral moral responsibility to he Notro Damn. lie has written newspapers have no legal re­the maliciousness of his responsibility there would have sensitive to its own biasi!S? many !otters, and in fact ran an sponsibility requiring them not writings. Someone has been no need for an apology. I vote for the newspaper, for entiro stud1~nt sonatorial cam­to print letters of a malicious recognized that he has gone The First Amendment of the it has the ability to stop the paign basnd on tho conc1~pts intent. beyond the point of presenting Constitution of the United States trouble before it starts. It is a found in his latost letter. Mr. In other words, the law does an opmwn. Someone has of America guarantees the right matter of responsibility. The Poralez is old nnws. lie no not hold The Observer re­recognized that he is trying to to freedom of speech. The laws editorial staff of The Observer longPr warrants the energy re­sponsible for printing letters create discord. So why is it that of the land have further would do well to keep these quirnd to bn upset. The like Mr. Peralez's. However, in any of his letters continue to go declared that a newspaper things in mind. Obsnrvnr dons. a society of rational people, to press? cannot be held legally responsi­
I just cannot understand how there are instances in which le­This incident is just another ble for the views expressed in a Andre Barrett the editorial staff of The gal standards do not measure blaring example of the institu­letter to the editor, even if in­Grace Hall Ohsnrvnr can continue to find up to moral standards. This is tionalized racism that often re­tended to provoke anger. Oct. 10, 1991 Mr. Peralnz's words worthy to one such instance. veals itself on this campus. I wonder then, who will be 
Half truths and generalizations dominated letter from Peralez 
Dear Editor: blacks and whites. 
_...,__
I am writing this letter in rn­The success of blacks is not 





·pj -----­
sponsn to the letter titled only measured by our success 
~ 
"Notm Dame should not sup­in the NFL and NBA b.ut also 
-

port SUFH'S agenda, (The Ob­in the corporate world. snrver, Oct. 10). The letter Emphasis is placed on sports D ­
contained language, because that is where the 

n~asoning, and spotlight is. If emphasis was ---------­generalizations that I don't put on the business world, ----B
.,....__

agnw with. then maybe success can be I rnsent being labeled as a measured by other standards. ~ ..._....... -­
-
"poor litl11! nngro." Aflirmative Not all blacks measure the 

-
action has nothing to do with success of blacks by the NFL 
"robbing whites and paying or NBA. That is an assumption 
blacks for the work they Mr. Peralez incorrectly states. 

Printing racist opinion lacked judgement 
havr,n't done." The purpose of Blacks have to work as hard 

Dear Editor: criticize, and unjustly (and this abuse? 
affirmative action is to give as non-blacks to make their As a student of history, I apparently uninformed) throw It is diflicult to enjoy lunch rninoritir,s an opportunity they way. Nothing comes easy for firmly r'ecognize the valuable a myriad of verbal assaults when one sees himself called a 

may otherwise not receive. anyone. It never has and it 

privilege the First Amendment upon the African-American "poor, little negro" and really
Everyone on campus has never will. I am a black 

extends to the press. I have community of Notre Dame. "wanting to sler,p with whites" enrtain eonenrns. eollege student and in no way 
been well schooled on the However, this is not a as Mr. Peralez claims. Anddo I believe that my being historic and unprecedented rebuttal to the many fanciful those are some of the nicer 
It is in a student's best inter­black is a "passport to contributions that members of charges and utterly ridiculous things he has had to say. I take est to havn thr,se concerns at­behavior and 'entitlements.'" 

the American press have points that Peralez has made. personal offense to what Paul 
ti~JHind to. It also shows the If I demand more, it is 

forwarded to the public, and He is entitled to his opinions­Peralez has to say, but againuniversity carr,s about because I will work hard for staunchly support the media's racist as they may be-if he so his views are his to have. 
students as individuals. more and deserve to get more. 

right to free speech. chooses. Instead, I question The Observer-being a "Institutionalized racism" is It is always easy to settle for 
Thus, it greatly distresses the judgement of The campus paper and not merely
not tlw Office of Minority Af­less. 

me when this privilege is Observer staff in continually Paul's personal soundingfairs: It is the many organiza­abused. Through "Letters To printing these tirades. board-has the responsibilitytions that hold thn same views If Mr. Peralez wants to speak 
The Editor," The Observer Over the past year, Mr. of seeing that its editorial 
as Mr. Peralez. the truth, let him speak whole opens its pages to its readers Peralez has made his pages are not continuallyStudnnt government uses truths and not half truths. He 

so that their experiences, discontent and disgust of cluttered with the shallow, 
our money not only to help has a right to his own opinion ideas, and viewpoints may be African-Americans known ignorant. revolting, and racist black organizations but other like everyone. If there is an at­shared by all, and many in the very clearly. I personally feel opinions of one overzealous,

organizations on campus. tempt to tell a story, simply 

Notre Dame community utilize that enough is enough. Must attention-seeking individual. 
N.A.A.C.P. is not a separatist tell the whole story and allow this space. the student body be repeatedly That's all I ask, and the least I black organization: It is here people to develop their own One student in particular, subjected to hearing the deserve. 

to aid blacks as wr,ll as non­opinions. 

Paul Peralez, must feel that rantings and ravings of one Coquese Washington 
blacks deal with the faet that Lori Miller "Letters To The Editor" is his individual? And must we, as Farley Hall blacks arn progrnssing and to Howard Hall 

personal column through African-Americans of this Oct. 13, 1991 discuss issur,s concerning Oct.11, 1991 
which he can routinely attack, university, be forced to accept 
-
Writer~s unfounded statements exclusively attack blacks 
Dear Editor: housed with blacks at Notre other minorities. were before the 1960s." In a offered. 
Upon reading Paul Peralez's Dame (untrue) and why blacks Third, Mr. Peralez claims that feeble attempt to support this Why does Mr. Peralez insist on lettnr ("Notre Dame should not enjoy sleeping with whites. "three new minorities" were statement, he cites crime harping on "exclusively black support SUFH's agenda"), I no­Obviously, both statements are added to the administration in statistics for blacks and implies organizations"? Several of ticed what I consider major completely ludicrous. order to appease SUFR's "poor that they are therefore worse those mentioned are not, as Mr. problems with Mr. Peralez's Secondly, it amazes me how little negroes." Why does Mr. off. Yet no statistics are Peralez would have the reader statements. Mr. Peralez states that various Peralez assume that SUFR is mentioned from the era before believe, black only; they ­
It should be mentioned that I institutions serve blaeks and composed solely of blacks? Last the civil rights movement. include all minorities. Yet 1un in every majority imagin­blacks alone, rather than all year, SUFH was comprised of It is also interesting that Mr. although Mr. Peralez is, in faet, ahln at this school. I am white, minorities. He writes that af­members of all races, including Peralez believes that blacks Hispanic, he fails to notice that male. Catholic, and Irish. Yet firmative action is "a misnomer Hispanics, blacks, and whites. were better off in the 1960s, Notre Dame funds the Hispanic­the extrmne intolerancn which that means robbing the white to Again, Mr. Peralez speaks of even though they were often American Organization, which Mr. Pnralnz exudes toward pay blacks for work they "separatist black organizations railroaded through courts, sel­is exclusively Hispanic. blacks outrages me. haven't done." Affirmative ac­including the N.A.A.C.P.," which dom were allowed to vote, It is obvious that many of the 
First, Mr. Peralez claims that tion, which in reality is the use stands for the National could not earn the same wages statements in Mr. Peralez' letter "blacks arn housed with other of quotas to ensure that mi­Association for the or hold the same jobs as a white are unfounded. It is ironic that blaeks at Notre Damn. like norities are fairly represented Advancement of Colored worker, and few blacks were although Mr. Peralez complains blacks in the Old South cherish in organizations, discriminates People. Note the two final allowed to continue their about racism during his the plr,asure of sleeping with against whites; but that is an­words: colored people. This educations beyond high school. diatribe, blatant prejudice 

whites." lie draws this conclu­other issue. means all minorities, and it is I would be greatly interested in against blacks is prevalent sion from a statement made However, why is it that Mr. meant that way. If it was hearing the facts behind an­throughout his letter. 
-
about interracial sex during Peralez's definition of intended solely for the other of Mr. Peralez' statement Matt Miller the 1960s. affirmative action includes only advancement of blaeks, it would that Notre Dame allows whites Carroll Hall 
Yet, he nr,glects to provide any blacks? Affirmative action in­be named N.A.A.B. and blacks "varying standards Oct. 13, 1991 morn information about why cludes Hispanics, Native Mr. Peralez writes that "blacks of conduct." Such as? No sup­blacks are segregated and Americans, Asians, and all are worse off today than they porting facts whatsoever are 
page 12 

By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Accent Writer 
Women as priests. 
The mere utterance of this phrase brings forth waves of protest. What about tradition? What about the priest as a representation of Christ? What about the fact that there were no female apostles? 
But to some people, the idea of women entering the priesthood is not far-fetched. In fact, many think it's an idea whose time has come. 

I 
"A woman does my taxes. I know a 

I 
woman pathologist. But my priest

I 
can't be a woman? ... It's strange.

r It's perplexing," said John Houck, professor of management at Notre Dame. Houck is the leader of the Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women (CNDPOW). a collection of faculty and students who would like to see the University take a stand on this controversial issue. "How come we (Notre Dame) can certify just about every calling and profession (for women) and we will fight like blazes to stand by our certification, but we won't do it with women and the priesthood?" Houck asked. . The organization came together for the first time three years ago to try to find some answers to such challenging questions. At this time, Houck was approached by a female student who was trying to decide upon a career path. according to Ann Seckinger, a CNDPOW member. The student told Houck that her true inclination was to serve the Catholic Church; how­
-
ever, options were just not available. 
Until then, Houck had never thought about service opportunities from a wom·an's perspective, explained Seckinger. 
"He looked at the situation as an 
issue of equal rights," she said. Soon afterwards, CNDPOW was 
born. 
The goals of the organization are three-fold, according to Houck. While pressing the University and the Church to recognize women's place, CNDPOW questions Notre Dame's failure to encourage women to join the priesthood as they would other professions; challenges the 


Accent 
Tuesday, October 15, 1991 




tradition 
Group encourages NO to take a stand on women's ordination 

"All the symbols here (at Notre Dame) are male symbols," said Houck. "All the big events are male athletic events. The opening mass is (lead by) all males ... The war memorial celebrates men ... The mosaic on the Hesburgh library por­trays all males ... 
"It is not healthy for the self­esteem of our females," he continued. "They don't feel cel­ebrated. They don't feel that we would go to battle for their rights ... The best way to enhance self-esteem is to take a strong public stand for dignity in the Church." 
Many of these "male symbols" are subtle, however. The average female Notre Dame student may not consciously recognize an attack on self-esteem. 
"A lot of women are impartial," said Seckinger. "They are so busy being a student that they don't see any oppression ... putting these discussions on, women see that they are oppressed." 
Starting this year, CNDPOW's investigations will go a step beyond symposiums. At a recent organizational meeting. the group decided to approach the residence halls and try to extract input from the students. 
"We want to listen to what students are saying," Seckinger said. "Why do people go to mass? What is a priest? What are the roles of men and women in the Church today?" 
Pushing Notre Dame to take a stand is not just pressuring the administration, but also encouraging students to form an opinion for themselves, explained Seckinger. 
As of yet, there has been no formal response from the University's administration, but Houck is optimistic. "It is going to be resolved," he said. 
"One of the great achievements of the University of North Carolina (at Chapel Hill) was ... when it took a leadership position against racial judgement. It always gets a footnote or a paragraph in the history books," said Houck. 
"I want my university to get that footnote for taking a strong stand on the position of the ordination of women," he continued. "We want Notre Dame to be up front. It's not yet, but we're very hopeful." 

-
-
basis of discrimination in the Church; and grapples with the current issue of sexual harassment. 
To reach these goals, the group has conducted panel discussions and lectures to thoroughly investigate the theological and psychological affects of the Church's stance. 
"We don't have a lot of answers, 
Pesci's performance is less than 'Super' 
The Super 
Produced by Charles Gordon, directed by Rod Daniel * 
(out of five) 
Now playing at University Park 
East 

caricatured S\;\'agger and bullying attitude are entertaining for about five minutes of the movie. It is like a lame "Saturday tlight Live" skit that never seems to end. 
The film also presents many things that it never truly addresses. 
By ELIZABETH HAYES 
Film Critic 

There's really not much good that can be said about "The Super." 
The basics of this movie are all essentially flawed. There hasn't been a major-star production this bad since Kathleen Turner's flop "V.I. Warshawski." 
The story-that of a slumlord's moral epiphany and his subsequent renovation of the apartment building in which tough but good-hearted tenants live in misery -promises a freshness and originality that is never realized. 
Its script is built around the hackneyed bad-guy-turned-good-by-an­unlikely-turn-of-events theme that leads to overstatement and cliche. 
The main character, Louie Kritski, played by Joe Pesci, may be passingly funny in a few slapstick scenes, but the convincing dramatic development of his character that this movie so desperately needs is neither provided for in the script nor fleshed out by Pesci's acting. 
The movie depends too heavily on the dubious acting talents of Joe Pesci -it seems from the advertisements that he alone will make the movie worth watching. This is not the case. 
The film's supposedly uplifting theme of urban housing, and therefore social renewal, is marred by screwball comedy and amateurish directing. Pesci's 
,.# J, # • ~ .. J. J& .. .J".4,• 4 •' ~_.# ,/1 I 

As one watches the movie, the qu~stion is raised .."Is this really
social commentary? 

The plight of the urban poor is shown rather dimly in this movie, as if we were looking at snapshots of typical slum apartments instead of an entire feature film devoted to the subject. 
The cheap laughs that the movie provokes do not make it a comedy either. It fails at its objective to promote social consciousness as well as to serve as entertainment. 
The loose ends that are never tied up -Louie's relationship with his father. what happened to his bimbo girlfriend Heather, how Louie came to be talking but we have a lot of questions," said Seckinger. Looking for insight into some of their questions, the organi­zation has turned to the community. 
The opinion that Notre Dame is a male dominated institution is a recurring concern that has been given attention during the organization's investigations. 
Academy Award winner Joe Pesci (left) is Louie Kritski, a slumlord who is court-ordered to live in one of his own decrepit tenements in "The Super." 
to his father at the dinner table at the beginning of the movie -are simply sloppy filmmaking. The filmmakers are obviously more interested in putting Pesci'' in another laugh-getting re­dundant scene than making a coherent film. 
The one tiny spot of light in this film is the supporting role of Marlon, the appealing Latin street hustler, played by Ruben Blades, who may be remembered for his excellent performance in a much better film in which he is currently starring, "The 1\vo Jakes." 
If you are a fan of his, you will not be disappointed by his realistic street savvy and surprisingly believable moral uprightness. His presence makes Pesci's portrayal of Louie Kritski look like a cartoon. 
Rather than sitting through Pesci's disaster, audiences might be better off waiting for Blades' next movie. 
"The Super" is overcut, predictable, and patronizes the unfortunate who are forced to live in conditions similar to those in this film. 
Tuesday, October 15, 1991 The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary·s office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifleds 


Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
NEED RIDE To IU (Indy good I NEED NAVY AND TENN GA'S Rich alums need 10 A.F. g.a.'s. Will NEED 2 USC GA'S, EAR CANDY enough) Sat. of break@ noon (after pay $$$. Call Gus or Mike at (206) Will Trade Tenn Student Tix and WVFI640am GMAT's) Call Steve x23661 Will Pay HAVE 1 PITT GA 624-7990 Plenty o' Cash I presents TYPING AVAILABLE $$ FOR SALE OR TRADE Call Dan x1236 287-4082 I need a Navy GA desperately The Jericho Sesssions 
NEED Tenn/Navy GAs-please CALL TOM Call Mike x4655 NEED 4 NAVY GAs-CALL DOC-Typing Chris1791 X1762 2723001 A 73 minute CD featuring 19 Fast, Professional HELP I Alum needs 2 USC GAs original songs from 19 campus 277-7406 TRAVEL FREE!! SELL QUALITY HELP I I NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. Will pay $$-call Ivan @2037 I NEED USC GAs IN A BIG WAY. bands. All precedes benefit the 
SPRING BREAK VACATION TO WILL PAY $$$$ My pen pal from the Gulf War is South Bend Runaway Shelter. JAMAICA. HIGHEST ASK FOR AL@ X1230 Help me be a little angel! My coming to visit-don't deny him the 
COMMISSIONS PAID. WORK FOR godmother needs a USC GA. Be chance to see a game. CALL ON SALE NOWII 
THE BESTI my savior-X3484 MONICA 283-4098. AT IF YOU ARE THE YOUNG LADY SUN SPLASH TOURS NEED TIX FOR: LAFORTUNE IFOAMATION DESK WHO DRIVES A WHITE HONDA 1-800-426-7710. USC,TENN.,NAVY I need a GA for Navy!!! Call Need : 2 GA's for USC, 4 GA's CRX AND LOST HER caii:#151B Jahnelle at x2867 for TENN. Call John 273-9165. CLUB 23 SUNGLASSES AT THE CAR BEST DAMN CAMPUS REP & WASH, STOP BY OR CALL. THE WANTED II! I NEED USC GAS Need USC GAs. Money no object. VIC'S SUBS GLASSES HAVE BEEN FOUND. North America's Best Damn Tour WANT TO PURCHASE STUDENT CALL PHIL X2096 Call Ron x2157 
Co. TICKET BOOKS. PLEASE CALL are now open from LOST: GOLD CHAIN WI DIAMOND. Only H-Life can offer you a FREE 284-3814, LEAVE YOUR NAME, DESPERATELY NEED 3 ST. TIX NEED TWO TENN. GA'S 11 am to 3 am OLD! HEIRLOOM. BEYOND SPRING BREAK TRIP for every 20 NUMBER AND PRICE FOR TENN. Call Kathy x395B PRICE NO OBJECTI SENTIMENTAL VALUE. paid and a chance to win a CALL CHRIS #3364 The Only Alternative IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO YAMAHA WAVEJAMMER. Join Need 1 or 2 Navy GAs Need TENN & USC GA's Stan Live Music and Specials KELLEY X4294 thousands of other campus reps. Bridget X377B x1726 WANTED: 2 USC GA'S­(7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) 
Call Now 1-800-263-5604. BURGEOISE CALIFORNIA Phone : 234-4015 FOUND: FEMALE GERMAN NEED 2 NAVY GAS STEVE 233-WILL TRADE GA'S! NEED 2 USC, RELATIVES WILLING TO PAY BIG SHEPHARD MIX WITH RED HELP 3882 HAVE 2 NAVY. JILL X3021 BUCKS I.E. $$$$$$$$$$$ stronger than burt COLLAR DRAGGING A CHAIN. Need a ride to LaCrosse WI CALL SEAN 289-6439 FOUND ON CAMPUS. CALL ANN area this Friday WILL PAY NEED 3 GA'S FOR TENNESEE TENNESSEE: NEED 6 GA'S WAY TO GO FARLEY Ill 654-8550 OR 239-6346. Call Michele 4802 JOE X1360 SHARON 284-5146 HAVE STUDENT TICKETS TO Congrats on your win against Knott. 
ALL GAMES PLEASE CALL You guys played with class -we all 
LOST: NO VARSITY LETTER NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL NJ NEED TENN TICKETS BOTH STD I need 4 GA's for the USC or Navy KELLY 284-5404 know our real record. JACKET SUNDAY AT STEPAN OCT 18 $$ X4456 AND GA CALL JONATHAN AT game. PLEASE! Call Amy at2B4-Hey, Kathy, are you gonna share FIELD. NO. ALUM. PLEASE CALL 277-9733 5117. Thanx. I NEED 1 USC GA. PLEASE! your beer? 
ADAM AT 271-0716. A ride from Des Moines, lA CALL ELLEN X4830. THANKS TO THE BEST 3 
back to ND on Oct. 27 x1640 Need 2 GA's for Navy and COACHES IN THE WORLD -WE LOST: WALK MAN AT THE HELP!I! I NEED NAVY GAs!!! Tennessee. Call Tim at x1417. $$$$NEED 1 USC GA$$$$ LOVE Y'ALL I HUDDLE ON 10/10/91 AROUND 11 $$$DOMINIC x2348$$$ PM. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL FOR RENT $$$$MONEY NO OBJECT$$$$ I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC Mark-3 blonde chicks,steamy MARl AT X4270. I CANNOT and Tennessee. Trade 2 Navy GAs for 2 Tenn GAs. windows,heavy bass on a Sat. night SURVIVE WITHOUT IT! BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY CALL SCOTT: x1832 ANYTIME Chris 239-5713 Call Mike X3549 -the legend of S.B. 
219-291-7153 P.S. We want to drive the stick! LOST: BLUE JEAN JACKET AT I Need Two Tennessee Tickets So Will Trade 2 USC GA's for Two SENIOR BAR ON SATURDAY, Extra nice completely furnished two Need 3 USC GA's together:::: my friends can see those Red Neck TENNGA's. Call Matt1670 NEED RIDE TO WASH. D.C???? 10/12. CALL LORI 239-8327. bedroom with den. Ideal for two or Have 3 GA's(2 together) to Vols. Call the Green-One x3409. LEAVE 10-19 RETURN 10-25 
three students. Heat and electric sell/trade. #1164 Need USC GAs please! LOOKING FOR RIDERS-Found In Career & Placement furnished. $300 for two. Graduate NEED2 USC Paulx1605 CHUCK x3677 Red, white & blue jacket: NO key students preferred. Call 233-8647. I NEED 2 USC G.A.'S Steve x1743 ring-S keys including Mazda car key. Call BARB x4761 SELLING USC TICKETS. hey nit 
AA-1 Bedroom furnished apartment. Attention! I have friends coming LUIS 273-1528. LOST: Brown, brushed leather Newly decorated, carpeted, bath & I NEED TENN. GA OR STUDENT from California who woud love to INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. jacket. Very desperate to recover shower, private entrance. Utilities TICKET see the Irish destroy USC. Any GAs wanted: many Navy and USC Good rates. Save Money. Call me IIIII It you have it, have seen it, or furnished. Storage. $260. 233-8647. or student tix would be most GA's whitney x4304 for a quote 9:30-6:00, know anything about it, PLEASE TOM-TOM excellent, dude. Call277-6932 and 289-1993. Office near campus. call Robb at 1802. Reward offered. X1762 give Rob your price. If Rob isn't HELP! I NEED 6 USC TICKETS No questions asked. FOR SALE home listen to his excellent GA'S OR STUDENTS!! PLEASE LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes 
PLEASEPLEASEPLEASEPLEASE2 answering machine and leave a CALL X1704 every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am. LOST OR STOLEN Stud B-ball ticket applic. -4 TN GA'S SEAN @289-6439 message. OR (708)249-0149 Eastern time. Train and jump the JESUS Tim x1640 same day. Modern equipment and 
He's 3-dimensional and my TRADE: Will trade 2 USC GA's NEEDED:4-6 Tenn. GAs, any USC BIG $$ For 2 Tenn GAs training programs. Licensed RA wants him back to light 2 UNITED AIRLINE TICKETS SB for 2 TENN GA's tix Call Jeremy 277-4873 Marc x16B9 instructors. FFI call Skydive up his room. TO WESTCHESTER CO NY. call: 259-6956 Hastings (616) 948-2665. Return him with no questions LEAVE NOV 7 -RETURN NOV Need 2-4 NAVY GA'S. Will pay top NEED 2 USC GA'S Steve x2366 asked to 316 Flanner. 10. $120 EACH. 291-6543 PLEASE SELL ME 2 USC GA's! dollar! call Jeff 234-2396 CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP 
God would want you to do it. My Grandpa really wants to NEED 2 USC GA TICKETS MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30P.M. 
'89 VW Jetta GL Wallsburg, see the game. Beth x4855 I NEED 2 TENNESEE GA'S HAVE$$$ FOR INFO: CALL 272-8890 50 th year edition. All power CALL COREY 277-5854 JULIE X4B42 277-7363 2 USC GA'S FOR SALE Irish Music & Dance @ Club 23 
LOST GOLD "ROPE" BRACELET, LEAVE MESSAGE 283-4303 I Need 2 USC GA's I NEED ONE USC GA PLEASE! Every Tuesday in October 
on October 8, 1991, somewhere on Bike4 sale 232-3980 DAN SERIOUS OFFERS ONLY! -Steve X 1835 CALL LISA X2558 SEAMAISIN South Quad. If found, PLEASE CALL NEED USC STUD TIX x2742 I NEED 4 USC GA'S !!! $$ I NEED 4 USC GA'S SPRINGBREAK SAILING BETH #2509. TICKETS LINDA 272-5486$$ BAHAMAS 48ft. Luxury Yachts 
NEED N.D. FOOTBALL G.A.'S PLEASE CALL Groups of Six NO FOOTBALL TICKETS 2 or 4 for U.S.C. or Tennesse ANDREA 283-1330. SELLING STUD TIX BOOK OR Seven Days Barefoot Sailing The WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. Phone 256-2836 USC 271 19 98 B TO 11 Bahamas. As Low as $488.00 each 
LOST-pearl necklace in grey Please sell me your Tenn. GA Including Cabin and Meals. Call eyeglass case 10/9/91 REWARD! !I Please help, I need Tenn GA's, call I NEED 2 Navy GAs. or student tix. x2985 NEED NO-USC GA TIX. WILL Anytime. Kathleen 288-9421 Kevin@# 1407. call Carol x4942. PAY BIG BUCKS Ill CALL JOE 1-800-999-7245 (SAIL) 
I NEED 3 NAVY GAs. @ 287-4561 AFTER 6P.M. FOUND: on first floor WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR Have USC Stud -Make offer Call Carol x4942. 0<>0 The Copy Shop 000 Niewland on 9 Oct man's TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL Call Tim x1640 Hi there! Gene's my name and LaFortune Student Center jacket. Contact Dave at 601-249-3417 NIGHTS. NEED USC TIX: STUD. OR GA'S Insurance is my game. My only wish WHEN YOU NEED COPIES 289-3234 and describe. NEED GA'S: 5 TENN & 1 NAVY PLEASE CALL MIKE AT: is that I insure that you become very WE'RE OPEN 
i need up to 5 STUD tix for USC. KELLY X4854 256-7034 wealthy. How you may ask? For EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS FOUND: MEN'S GLASSES IN pete xt791 merely selling me 4-6 GAs for the CUSHING AUD. SATURDAY NEED stud tix or GAs for any -will trade 2navy GA for 2USC/ USC game, I can help you plan for Friendly Fantail-NIGHT(! 0:30pm). $$$$$ home games. Call John 232-8065 2TENN GA-Kevin 3252 your financial future by removing Happy 21st Birthday! CALL BOB x1902 TO IDENTIFY USC GA's needed. Call and leave $$$ large sums of money from my Love always-E 
message 277-9468 NEED GA's AND STUD. TIX TO wallet. Seal the deal by calling me FOUNDIIIII $$$$$ Sell whole ticket booklet or next USC AND TENN. @ 291-3778. Don't call after HELP MEl Desparate parents female watch ...picked up at USC game. Call atter7pm JAY X157B 10(might wake up the little Mrs.) need 2 Navy GA's. Call Mike 
connell's concert. callt682. NEED TENN. GA'S. 2323330. Sofield x23B4 if you can help. CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS, I need 2 USC tix Can you dig this! I am terribly OR 708-251-4502 AFTER 8 PM. Will trade 2 Navy GAs for 2 Tom#3109 interested in buying a Student ticket Monica Eigelberger is a ho.
WANTED USC or 2 Tenn. GAs. Call for Tennessee. Price is no object, 
WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD 289-4061 days or 277-6239 nights. I NEED 2 USC GA'S IN A BAD unless of course you want more Happy birthday Joe Roberts. OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? WAY II Brady x1191 money than I am willing to pay you. mo.Summer, Yr.round,AII NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs. USC Need 4 USC GA's, 4 Tenn. GA's, Give Dave Bose a ring at 283-2015. "EYES FOR YOU" Countries,AII fields. Free Info. Write ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789-and 3 Tenn. Stud. Call #3718 If Dave is busy his personal staff will Thank you I IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del 0654 be happy to help you. Irish V-ball Who are you? Mar CA 92625. I need 2 GA's for USC and PITT. I need two USC GA's so my parents ruleslllll!l!!ll 
HAVE 2 STUD TIX TO ALL HOME Greg x1795. can bring me back to MATT AND DAMON, RETURNING TO CAMPUS FROM GAMES, WILL TRADE FOR TENN. school! I Please HELP! I don't want Poly vou Francais? Neither do I. You guys are the best everl Thanks WASHINGTON D.C ON FRI. OCT TIX, OR WILL SELL. CALL i need 2 GA's for NAVY. Pete x1791 to live at home!!! Now that we have something in so much for a great season. We 25? JASON,287-881B. Call Jeanne x2670 -'leave common you should have no trouble may not have won too many, but we PLEASE CALL DIANE X2895. message selling me a GA or stud. tick. for saw some good skys and it was 
usc usc usc usc usc usc HAVE PITT GAS USC. I am willing to make deals that always an EXCELLENT day to pull FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS usc usc usc usc usc CALL x1781 are just smoking. Trust me. Call a muscle. Thanks for all your time Promote and Organize our Spring Vince Needs two GA's to see MAKE OFFER >>>>>>>>>>>>>>><<<<<<<<<<<< Quinn at 283-2059. and enthusiasim. We'll miss you! Break tours. All materials furnished. THE TROJANS <<<< love, Good Pay and Fun. Call Campus Call x3414 anytime > NEED USCTIX < your Badin Babes. Marketing. 1-800-423-5264 usc usc usc usc usc usc > STUDS ORGAS < PERSONAL 
usc usc usc usc usc usc NEED 4 G.A. TIX TO ANY HOME >>>>>>>>>>>>>>><<<<<<<<<<<< 
LOST/FOUND 
UISE $500 ... $1000 ... $1500 

FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS GAME. WILL PAY GOOD $$$. <<<< You say soup too Hot? to students or student organizations I need 2 TN GAs .Will pay BIG$$. TIM #1763 '91 ALUM LIVING LOCALLY promting our Spring Break Cl!ll will at x3001. YOUR BOOKLET WILL BE SAFE I am the Lizard King and I can do 
FOOLI 

Packages. Good Pay and Fun. I NEED USC,TENN,PITT,& NAVY CALL SEAN @ 273-1601 anything. Call CMI. 1-800-423-5264. Need 4 GAs for Penn State I Please GA TIXS.272-6306 LEAVE MESSAGE IF NOT HOME call AJ X1253 SENTENCED TO A PAPER TERM? 

l~;r·:·J~

Earn $2500 and Free Trips Selling ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S I NEED USC TIX BADII Trying to beef up a meatless Spring Break Packages to FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME TO ANY HOME GAME$ CALL KEITH #1560 resume? We can help with all sorts 
FU..II» 

Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, Florida! GAMES273-1802 CALL COLLECT of editorial services. Best Trips and Prices! Spring Break 812-477-2627 I need 2 GA's for USC! Please IDEAS INTO INK Travel 1-800-638-6786. DESPERATELY NEED TIX FOR call Amy at 2706 if you can 288-3508 


RAISING 

-
USC. STUQENT OR GA. (Willing to Relative have never seen help! 
For your fraternity, sorority. te•m

NEED Aide/Riders to Boston, trade) Call ~on 277-9205 CONDOMS IN ACTION! English classes offered 
or other campos organization. 

Rhode Island area for October NEED 3 USC GA'S to have Breakl Pleaselll Call Amy 283-Need 2 USC GAs. their DREAMS COME TRUE TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS. Beatriz 
AISOl&mU 110 fiiVIIfMfNf lfQUIIfDf 

1347. Call Cath x4276 Call MIKE at X2360 RANDY 800-323-7687. Call 272 97 13 CALL 1-800-950 72, ex.. 50 
--,.-::----:--,.-::.--.:-.:-c~=-=-~-::_-.,_--:_ •• --.,.._~--;:_--,_""_,.-,-,--,_...,_...,_,....,.._~-~--::.-..~. ---­
-• • • 

..........-....-...... -··-······...... ~.......... ····-~-----·-········ .. -· .. 


Scoreboard 

Tuesday, October 15, 1991 NBA PRESEASON NHL STANDINGS ­
Saturday'• Gamea WALES CONFERENCE Eaat 
Philadelphia 125, Los Angeles Clippers 110 Patrick Division w L T Pet. flF PA Boston 117, Los Angeles Lakers 107 w L T Pts (F GA Buffalo 6 0 .857 210 154 
Charlotte 110, New Jersey 93 Washington 5 1 0 10 25 18 Miami 3 4 0 .429 127 164 Miami 107, Seattle 100, OT New Jersey 4 1 0 8 23 14 
N.Y. Jete 3 4 0 .429 140 135 Orlando 113, Detroit 108 NY Rangers 3 4 0 6 18 25 New England 2 4 0 .333 66 111 Cleveland 120, San Antonio 106 NY Islanders 2 5 13 13 Indianapolis 7 0 .000 49 176 Chicago 109, Minnesota 80 Pittsburgh 2 5 14 13 Central 15 20 
·0 

Phoenix 115, Atlanta 96 Philadelphia 3 3 Houston 5 1 0 .833 179 89 
Utah 111, Sacramento 1 04, 2 OT Adame Dlvlalon Pittsburgh 3 3 0 .500 135 127 Portland 97, Indiana 94 Montreal 3 2 7 20 12 Hartford
Cleveland 2 4 0 .333 89 ttl Sunday'a Gamaa 2 5 13 11 Cincinnati 0 6 0 .000 91 171 New York 112, Washington 91 Boston 1 3 3 13 19 West Charlotte 1 03, Denver 100 Buffalo 3 3 15 19 
Kansas C~y 5 2 0 .714 140 76 Monday'a Gamea Quebec 3 3 16 17 Denver 4 2 0 .667 128 107 
Late Game Not Included LA Raiders 4 3 0 .571 114 128 
Cleveland 130, Washington 114 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Seattle 3 4 0 .429 131 109 
Houston 101, Utah 96 Norrie Division San Diego 6 0 .143 121 157 Sacramento vs. Golden State at Reno. Nev., (n) w L T Pts (F GA Tueaday'a Gamea Chicago 3 2 7 28 22 NATIONAL CONFERENCE Boston at New York, 7:30 p.m. Minnesota 3 0 0 6 10 6 
Denver vs. Los Angeles Clippers at Pittsburgh, 7:30 p.m. St. Louis 2 2 0 4 11 Seattle vs. Chicago at Lexington, Ky., 7:30 p.m. Toronto 2 East 15 
w L T Pet. flF PA 3 0 4 19 16 Washington 7 0 0 1.000 231 82 
Miami vs. Minnesota at Pensacola, Fla., 7:30 p.m. Detroit 0 3 1 11 18 Dallas 6 2 0 .714 150 136 
Orlando vs. Philadelphia at Mobile, Ala., 8:30 p.m. Smythe Division 
.571 118 Dallas at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Vancouver 5 0 23
N.Y. Giants 4 3 0 113 10 16 
Milwaukee vs. Phoenix at Ames, Iowa, 8:30 p.m. Los Angeles
Philadelphia 3 4 0 .429 96 93 2 2 6 18 18 
Phoenix 4 .429 99 139 Wedneaday'a Games Winnipeg 2 2 1 5 18 19 Central 23 15 
3 0 Philadelphia at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Calgary 2 3 0 4 Los Angeles Clippers at Atlanta. 7:30 p.m. Edmonton

Detroit 5 0 .833 128 119 3 1 3 12 21 Chicago 4 2 0 .667 97 111 New York vs. Boston at Hartford, Conn.. 7:30 p.m. San Jose 5 0 2 19 30 Minnesota 3 4 0 .429 103 113 Utah vs. Cleveland at Greenville. N.C., 7:30 p.m. Monday'• Gamea Green Bay 5 0 .167 83 115 Detroit at Houston, 8:30 p.m. Hartford 4, Montreal 3 Tampa Bay 5 0 .167 73 113 New Jersey vs. Milwaukee at Green Bay, Wis., 8:30 p.m. Washington 5, N.Y. Rangers 3 West 
Golden State vs. Charlotte at Las Vegas. 9:30 p.m. Tuesday'a Games New Orleans 6 0 0 1.000 134 53 Indiana vs. Denver at Fort Collins, Colo., 9:30 p.m. Edmonton at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. Atlanta 3 3 0 .500 101 122 
Pittsburgh at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35 p.m. LA Rams 3 3 0 .500 103 133 
Toronto at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. San Francisco 2 4 0 .333 129 108 AP TOP 25 
Minnesota at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. Sunday'a Games 
Wednesday's Game• 
Buffalo at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. Washington 42, Cleveland 17 Press 1991 college football poll, with first-place New Jersey at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. votes In parentheses, records through Oct. 12, total Hartford at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m. 
Dallas 35, Cincinnati 23 The Top Twenty Five teams In the Associated 
Buffalo 42. Indianapolis 6 New Orleans 13, Philadelphia 6 San Jose at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m.
points based on 25 ·points for a first-place vote through one point for a 25th-place vote. and
Minnesota 34, Phoenix 7 previous ranking:

Los Angeles Rams 30, San Diego 24 TRANSACTIONS
Record Pts Pvs Kansas City 42, Miami 7 1. Florida St. (56) 6-0-0 1,472 1 Houston 23, New York Jets 20 2. Miami (1) 5-0-0 1,392 2 
Atlanta 39, San Francisco 34 3. Washing1on (2) 5-().\ 1 ,384 3 BASEBALL Los Angeles Raiders 23, Seattle 20, OT 
4. Michigan 4-1-0 1,282 5 National League 

5. Notre Dame 5-1-0 1,236 7 MONTREAL EXPOS--Assigned Eric Monday'a Game Bullock, outfielder, outright to Indianapolis 
OPEN DATE: Chicago. Denver, Detroit, Green Bay, New England, Tampa Bay 
6. Florida 5-1-0 1,179 10 7. California 5-0-0 1,021 13 

of the American Association.
New York Giants 23, Pittsburgh 20 
8. Tennessee 4-1-0 998 4 Sunday, Oct. 20 9. Nebraska 4-1-0 922 14 NEW YORK METS--Signed Mel 
Stottlemyre, pnchlng coach, to a one-year Houston at Miami. 1 p.m. 11. N. Carolina St. 5-0-0 856 16 contract w~h an option year. Named Earle
Chicago at Green Bay, 7:30 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 20 10. Penn St. 5-2-0 883 9 
12. Oklahoma 4-1-0 760 6 Fisher marketing representative. 13. Illinois 4-1-0 744 20
New York Jets at Indianapolis, 1 p.m. 
FOOTBALL

Seattle at Pittsburgh, 1 p.m. 
14. Alabama 5-1-0 691 19 

National Football LeagueMinnesota at New England, 1 p.m. 
15.1owa 4·1·0 664 17 

GREEN BAY PACKERS--Activated DarrellTampa Bay at New Orleans, 1 p.m. 16. Baylor 5-1-0 629 8 Thompson, running back, from the practiceAtlanta at Phoenix, 4 p.rrl. 17. Georgia 5-1-0 571 22 squad. Placed Allen Rice, running back. on
Cleveland at San Diego, 4 p.m. 18. Ohio St. 4-1-0 504 11 Detroit at San Francisco, 4 p.m. 
19. 
Texas A&M 3-1-0 382 21 Injured reserve. 


20. 
Pittsburgh 5-1-0 316 12 NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS--Signed Stan


Kansas City at Denver, 4 p.m. 
21. Clemson 3-1-1 239 18 Clayton, offensive lineman.

Los Angeles Rams at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. 
22. Colorado 3-2-0 229 25 
Arena Football LeagueOPEN DATE: Dallas, New York Giants, Philadelphia. Washing1on 

23. East Carolina 5-1-0 170 

TAMPA BAY STORM-Named LaryMonday, Oct. 21 24. Syracuse 4-2-0 138 15 Kuharlch coach and general manager.
Cincinnati at Buffalo, 9 p.m. 25. Arizona St. 4-1-0 122 



Tired of getting ripped off? 
The Student Task Force on Crime invites you to meet with the officers who patrol local neighborhoods. 
Get tips on how to: lit 
•keep 
your valuables secure over break 

•join 
neighborhood watch ~TUDE NT 

•avoid 
being cited for having a party 


GOYlRNMlNt 
•services offered -special officer patrol of your area -secure storage of valuables on campus 
Refreshments afterwards 



Tuesday, Oct. 15 -esc-7:30pm 


Tuesday, October 15, 1991 The Observer page 15 
~---------~-----------------------""'~ 
"' .. 
------------~----~--------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
HowAmerican Expresshelps you cover more territory.For less money. 
Membership Has Its Privileges® 
Bounds 
continued from page 20 
invindbility. 
This is not to put down his rnplaemnnnt, Stnvn Young. lie is a good quarterback-he wnnt into Sunday's gamn the top­ratnd quarterback in the NFC-but hn does not instill eonfidenen in a tnarn like Montana does. Possibly nobody nvnr has, or will. 
Thn last two nvnnts are intnrrnlated. The ris1~ of the Saints is a direet rnsult of the stralegins the NFL has nmploynd lo achieve parity. 
Bntt1~r draft ehoicns and easinr schedules for wnaker teams have allowed the Saints lo acquin) tlw talnnt nneessary to compete, while the Niners have been stuck with low draft choices where it's much more difficult to lind talent, and their 1990 divisional championship meant a tougher 1991 schedule. 
Sunday's loss to Atlanta epitomized San Francisco's problems. The Falcons were helped by a 100-yard kickoff return by 1990 first-round draft choke Deion Sanders, and after they scored the go-ahead field goal midway through the fourth quartnr, Young could not drive thn 49nrs to victory. 
It's sad to see the demise of the Niners. Unlike the A's, they were not cocky nor brash; they simply went about their business and won. 
They wern true champions. Maybn they will be onee again. 
W -Morris S-Aguilera 
L-Tapani 
W-Guthrie S-Aguilera 
W-Morris 
W-West 5-Aguilera 
5 4 L-Candiotti 
2 5 W-Guzman ~::. s-ward 3 2 L-Timlin
I 
9 3 L-Stottlemyre 8 5 L-Ward 
JBR 


Tennis 
continued from page 20 
doubles, while Schwab and Vitale, seeded second, fell to the top team of Wendy Anderson and Tse Lan Lee of Tennessee 
6-0, 6-2. 
Louderback, while pleased with his team's performance so far this young season, sees bet­ter things ahead for the Irish as the season progresses. 
"We just need to play as many matches as we can," said Louderback. "We have a lot of players, and every one of them wants to play. We're a deep team and have a lot of people who are playing well right now." 

Become aStudent Cardmember today and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
Only the American Express"' Card offers an exciting travel program exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on Continental Airlines. And much, much more. 
Just look at the map and pick the place youC! like to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you can use a certificate to fly for only $129* roundtrip. Or you can cross the 


TRAVEL RElATED 
SERVICES


CALL 1-800-942-AMEX
MCI 
Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon 
f, t 1: t. 1.' e.. L f, f.. I I I I.• I. f, I l1 , o t. fo t. f, ''' I• t. I t 
leave. And the maximum stay is 7days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night. 
By becoming a Student Cardmember, you'll also enjoy other benefits from the American Express"' Student Privileges· Program. Such as up to 30 minutes** of MCI long-distance calling every month for an entire year-absolutely free. And that's just one example of how the Card can help you save. 
For just $55 ayear, the Card gives you all these savings. And it's easy to apply. Just call us (have your bank address and account number on hand). What's more, with our special student offer, it's easier to get the Card now while you're still in school than it may 
ever be again. 

Continental 
' ' M • 
• '• •• ~ • Ill. ..... 

Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new terri­You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the tory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime­• M1nneapolis.'SI. Paul, St. Louis and Ne9o Orleans are considered cilies eas1 of the Miss1ssipp1 Ravn-. because there are no blackout dates. But you must •• Acredit of up to 13.70 for calls will appear on each billing statemt-m for 12 monrlu aher rnroll me-nt S_3.70 is equalro rhe chuges for adomestic 30 minute night/weekend MCI Card Compatimake your reservations within 14 days of the day you biliry call and appropriate surcharges You mus1 enroll for I his service by Of'cembt-r 31, 1991. 




~----page 16 
------, 
The Observer Tuesday, October 15, 1991 
: I 

Justice doesn·'t rule in Atlanta as Pirates win 1-0 
ATLANTA (AP) The Pittsburgh Pirates gave Atlanta every chance to win. They really did. 
The Braves wouldn't bite. They blew a bases-loaded threat early on a blown squeeze, missed another oppor­tunity when David Justice missed third base and then stranded Terry Pendleton at third in the eighth inning. 
Then in the ninth, they stranded a runner on third for the third time, but reliever Roger Mason retired Mark Lemke and Jeff Blauser to end it. 
So even with Pittsburgh's big three hitters stuck on empty, it didn't matter. Zane Smith out­pitched Tom Glavine and this time it was the Pirates' turn to hang on as they beat the Braves 1-0 Monday for a 3-2 lead in the NL playoffs. 
The Pirates, a day earlier in danger of going back to Pittsburgh out of the playoffs, instead will return to Three Rivers Stadium for Game 6 on Wednesday night. What's more, they'll have Game 1 winner Doug Drabek, recovered from his hamstring injury, ready to pitch against Steve Avery, a 1-0 winner in Game 2. • 
For the first time in awhile, and perhaps for the last time this year, neither the Braves nor their fans could get anything going. Sure, the crowd of 51,109 did its best to chant and' chop, but there wasn't much to cheer for. 
Jose Lind, the No. 8 hitter in the Pirates' lineup, singled home the only run in the fifth inning. It's good he got the job done. Barry Bonds, Bobby Bonilla and Andy Van Slyke again slumped, making them hitless in 27 at-bats with run­ners on base. 
Bonds has managed only three singles in 20 at-bats, with zero RBis, and is 0-for-13 with run­ners on. Last year, he got just three puny singles in 18 at-bats 
Golf 
continued from page 20 
well either day. We knew 
Xavier had a good team, but we 
really felt we should have 
won," said Dayton. 
"It was a difficult course," he 

explained. "And it was cold 
and windy. Although you 
would expect it, we haven't had 
much of that around here this 
fall. Also, playing 36 holes on 
Monday got exhausting by the 
evening. All in all, our fall 
season was disappointing. 
Personally I think we are a bet­
ter team than we showed. It 
seems we could never all play 
well at the same time." 
Coach Thomas agreed, say­

ing, "We played decent in 
Cincinnati and Purdue (where 
NO finished third). But we 
really stunk it up in Indy." 
While the brief fall season is 

over for the Irish, save an exhi­
bition match with Southern Cal 
in Chicago on Friday, the team 
hopes to redeem itself with a 
busy spring schedule. 
"We will have an extremely 

strong spring schedule. We are 
in all of the top invitationals in 
the Midwest," said Thomas. 
Among the tournaments the 

lrish will compete in will be 
those at Central Florida, 
Kentucky, and Bloomington, 
along with the Firestone and 
Keppler Invitationals. 
Thomas is anxious about his 

team this spring. 
"We're hoping one or two 

guys wake up. And Chris 
Dayton is going to be our cata­
lyst. He should really spear­
head the team this spring." 
in the six-game loss to Hunter was called out for inter­Cincinnati. ference when he failed to run 
No matter, ·because the on a chopper and got in Pirates, baseball's best road Slaught's way. team, won for the second Atlanta manager Bobby Cox straight day in Atlanta following argued that play, and was out of a string of seven consecutive the dugout again, although half­losses down south. heartedly, when Olson argued 

L-Glavine 1 5 W-Drabek
Smith and reliever Roger that Van Slyke had not caught Mason combined to scatter his sinking liner to center field. 
5--Walk eight hits and Atlanta's score­Even with no score, the odd less streak to 18 innings. Mason ending to the fourth inning gave W-Avery 1 0 L-Z. Smith 
took over after Pendleton's two­the Pirates momentum in the 
S-Penaout triple in the eighth, got Ron fifth. Glavine issued his first Gant on a popup and finished walk with one out to Buechele, for a save. and Slaught and Lind followed 
W-Smoltz 10 3 L-SmileyIn the ninth, pinch hitter with singles. 
S-Pena

Tommy Gregg and Greg Olson singled with one out. Lemke's Glavine allowed six hits in grounder moved Gregg to third, eight innings. He began the 
L-Mercker 2 3 W-Belinda and Blauser flied to right for the game with a 1-2-3 first inning; final out. he had given up runs in the first 
Justice, whose wild throw inning of his last seven starts, a Sunday night led to the tying total of 14 overall, including 
L-Glavine 0 1 W-Smith run in Pittsburgh's 3-2, 10-in­VanSlyke's solo homer in Game 
5--Mason ning win, again was in the mid­1. 
JBR 
dle of the Braves' bumbling. Justice was on second base The Braves, just like they did with two outs in the fourth in­against Smith in Game 2, SPORlSBRIEFS 
ning when Lemke singled to left loaded the bases in the second field. Justice was running all inning with no outs. Brian the way, but he tripped as he Hunter, Olson and Mark Lemke neared third base and stepped reached. Again, however, over the bag. Atlanta did not score. Rafael 
Justice kept going and tip-toed Belliard struck out and Glavine home ahead of catcher Don missed a two-strike squeeze at­Slaught's tag, but it didn't tempt, which led to Hunter be­matter. Nearly all of the Pirates ing tagged out for a double play. had seen Justice miss the base, Smith, who played for the and third baseman Steve Braves from 1984-89, was Buechele was jumping up and taken out after giving up a two­down to call attention to the out triple to Terry Pendleton in mistake. the eighth. Mason ended the 
While Justice stood halfway to threat by getting Ron Gant on a the dugout, Smith calmly took popup and escaped another jam the ball from Slaught and threw in the ninth for the save. to third, where umpire Frank Pulli was waiting to make the The series has been call. There was no argument dominated by pitching and from Justice, who saw the "out" defense. Although the Pirates sign as he stood near owner Ted are one victory away from the Turner, who was in a box near World Series, their outfield trio first base. of Bobby Bonilla, Barry Bonds 
It already had been a rough and Andy Van Slyke is hitting a inning for the Braves before combined .221. Justice's gaffe. Justice reached on a two-base throwing error "Pitchers are stealing the by first baseman Gary Redus, spotlight," Bonilla said. then stayed put when Brian "They're doing their thing." 
•The Notre Dame men's basketball team will be holding walk-on tryouts on Tuesday, October 15 from 7 to 9 p.m. in the 
J.A.C.C. All are welcome. 
•SMC 
Varsity Basketball tryouts will be October 15, from 6­8 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 

•Stepan 
Court time requests will be taken on Wednesday, October 16 in the Montgomery Theatre, La Fortune at 5:30 p.m. All groups wishing reserved time for their group to play basketball or volleyball, must be at the meeting. This schedule will be for the entire academic year. 

•ND/SMC 
women's field hockey will have practice Tuesday, October 15 at 9 p.m. in Loftus. Any questions, call Suzanne at 283-2687. 

•Sportstalk 
will air from 8-9 p.m. tonight on WVFI. Call 239­6400 to give your insights about last week's Pitt game or the upcoming Air Force game. 

•Notre 
Dame Rowing Club: There will be a meeting Tuesday night at 7:30p.m. in 184 Nieuwland for all varsity rowers. It will cover the fall break trip and ergathon, so bring your checkbooks. The racing tanks are in and will be out at the meeting. 


KPMGJPeat Marwick 
Management Consultants 
KPMG Peat Marwick Management Information System Consulting 
KPMG Peat Marwick's Government SeiVices and Technology & Operations practices will be hosting an infonnational presentation and reception Thursday, October 17. The presentation will be held from 7:00p.m. to 9:00p.m. in the Alumni Room ofthe Morris Inn 
All candidates interviewing with us on Friday, October 18 are strongly encouraged to attend this presentation. We would also like to invite any additional candidates interested in a career in consulting to attend the presentation. Candidates should have one ofthe following degrees: 
• 
BA-Arts and Letters, Computer Applications (CAPP) 

• 
BBA -Management, Management Infonnation Systems 

• 
BS -Electrical Engineering, Computer Sequence 

• 
BS -Mathematics, Computer Concentration 

• 
MBA, Computer related undergraduate 


Contact Career and Placement Services for more infonnation aboutKPMG Peat Marwick. 
KPMG Peat Marwick is an equal opportunity employer. 
---M•·•4~Jt~;-_. .........._.~_...,4..6-i114A..., ~_. .. _,._..a .;a_..._.._ .... ...,. ____._.____..., _ _,--..... .--------~'~~_._,. ...,._.._.._..._..-"'-lttoo~.L..._-..-,,,. ,_,_.. ...................~--.-...-.-~---------·---_ --·_,..,....:_~_..:-_._._-~-­

r--~--~~~---­
Tuesday, October 15, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Task Force on Cultural Diversity Report to the University Community Report Number One 
October 11, 1991 
Establishment of the Task Force on Cultural Diversity In April, 1991, Father Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., wrote a letter to the University Community entitled • An Open LeHer on Cultural Diversity.• He spoke about significant changes which had taken place at Notre Dame in previous years· co-education and a new governance structure-while lhe institution remained faithful to il5 fundamental .;,ission to be a Catholic University. He reiterated his commitment to another important change which he underscored in his 1987 Inaugural Address; to begi~ a sustained effort to inaease cultural diversity at the University. 
The leHer spoke about some achievemenl5 in the area of cultural diversity in the previous four years, including an increase in the endowment fund for financial aid to minority studenl5 from $ 8 to $ 20 million, a minority faculty development program, a summer faculty conference focusing on course revisions to broaden the cultural diversity of the curriculum, the setting of a goal of 15% for undergraduate minority enrolment and the development of the Black Alumni of Notre Dame. 
!The president also indicated areas of concern, including dispelling the notion that ethnic minority studenl5 are at Notre Dame under 'false pretenses' rather than based on their merits, the promotion and development of lasting friendships aaoss ethnic lines, and the differences in recognition and acceptance afforded student athletes from ethnic minorities as opposed to their ethnic peers. 
To assist him in carrying out this project, Father Malloy called for the establishment of a Task Force on Cultural Diversity which would begin woric in September, 1991, submit a written interim report by January 15, 1992 and a final report by the end of the 1991-92 academic year. 
In selecting membership for the Task Force, Father Malloy solicited recommendations from the following persons and groups: the officers and deans, Black Cultural Arts Council, Faculty Senate, Graduate Student Union, Hispanic American Association, International Student Organization, League of United Latin American Citizens, Multicultural Executive Councif, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Native American Association, Student Government, and Studenl5 United for Respect. 
Membership of the Task Force on Cultural Diversity 
!The Task Force membership is comprised of the following persons: Roland B. Smith, Jr. and Richard V. Warner, C.S.C., co-chairs; administration and staff: Angie 
Chamblee, Demetrius Martowe, Thomas McDermott, C.S.C., Roger Mullins, and Kevin Rooney; faculty: Sharon O'Brien, Patricia O'Hara, Jean Porter, F. Clark Power 
!Thomas G. Smith and Arvind Varma; students: Michael Allen, Joseph Blanco, Deswood Etsitty, Nicole Farmer, Mari Ishibashi, Yolanda Knight, Richard Ruiz, Max Siegel 
~nd Joseph Wilson; student research assistant, Kenya Johnson 
Late Summer and earty Fall, 1991: Background information made available to the members of the Task Force included lwo publications from the American Council on 
Education !Minorities on Campus, A Handbook for Enhancing Diver;ity, and •one Third of the Nation/' A Report of the Commission on Minority Participation in 
Education and American Life) the study on "'Hispanic Women • Making Their Presence on Campus Less Tenuous" of the American Association of Colleges, and the 
Reoort of the (Nothan Hatch) Committee on Minority Students (at Notre Dame)· June, 1987. 
irst meetinq, September 12, 1991: The members of the Task Force met to determine a calendar for the semester, discuss the structure of the Task Force, approve 
agenda for future meetings during the semester and express expectations for the work of the Task Force. 
Survey (September, 1991 ): The members of the Task Force responded to a written survey expressing their views in the following areas: areas of most significant deficiencies on campus in the area of cultural diversity, areas of most significant strength on campus regarding cultural diversity, important areas of communication between the Task Force and the university convnunity, expectations for the woric of the Task Force, and personal concerns regarding issues of cultural diversity at Notre Dame. 
Second meeting, September 17, 1991: The members of the Task Force met with Father Malloy to discuss their woric. He expressed personal concerns about how to allocate financial aid resources among undergraduate minority studenl5, the need to promote and maintain the Catholic character of Notre Dame while welcome persons of other faith traditions, the need to insure that all studenl5 feel welcome in the residence halls and participate fully in the beneficial aspects of the residential character of the University, and the need to prioritize issues in the area of cultural diversity and use the resources of current groups and organizations well. 
A series of questions and commenl5 followed Father Malloy's presentation. 
Third meeting, September 30, 1991: The Task Force met to study and discuss the results of the Hatch Report and to discuss the results of the written survey conducted 
among the members of the Task Force. 
American Council on Education Conference on Culh.wal Diversity (Atlanta, Georgia, 6·8, 1991): Six members of the Task Force, induding administrators, faculty and studenl5, attended the Conference on Cultural Diversity of the American Council on Education, along with 450 other representatrives of colleges.and universities. Delegates participated in the plenary sessions, focus groups and special seminar sessions, in addition to sharing observations and impressions with other members of the Notre Dame delegation. 
Fourth meeting, October 10, 1991: The members of the Task Force heard and discussed repom from those who attended the A.C.E. Conference in Atlanta. One member read a letter Studenl5 United for R~pect intended to send the Task Force. The_ prioritized resul15 of the written surv~ were distributed and the members of the Task Force expressed a preference for service on one of three subcomminees which will begin woric after the October break: Subcommittee on Atmosphere, Culture and Environment, Subcommittee on Policies and Structures and Subcommittee to Study and Update the Stotistical Bases and Recommendations of the Hatch Report. 
Additional repom to the University convnunity on the work of the Taslc Force on Cultural Diversity will be issued on a regular basis. 
Roland B. Smith, Jr. 
Richard V. WatMt, C.S.C. 
Co-Oiairs 


page 18 The Observer Tuesday, October 15, 1991 

Big Red surges past Flanner; Carroll, Fisher unbeaten 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
Bold play-calling by coach Paul Drey and the perfect exe­cution of the option by Dillon quarterback Chris Smariga and tailback Chris Monahan gave the Big Red their second victory of the season and sole posses­sion of first place atop the Parseghian division. 
Drey chose to go for the two­point conversion with under a minute remaining, calling the identical play witch resulted in Dillon's only score a play ear­lier. Smariga rolled to the left drawing in the Flanner defense, before he pitched to Monahan and who leapt into the end zone, giving the Big Red their second win of the season, 8-7. 
"Their was no doubt that we were going to go for two," said Drey. "We had worked too hard to get to that point, to settle for a tie." 
Monohan's score culminated a 60-yard drive, which began with only four minutes remain­ing. Wideout Joe Macchiarola set up Monahan's score with a 25-yard screen pass. 
The speedy receiver eluded numerous tacklers and was fi­nally brought down at the Flanner ten. He also had a key reception on third and ten to keep the Dillon drive alive. The Dillon offensive line gave Smariga an abundance of time to throw and opened gaping holes for Monahan and the rest of the Dillon backs. 
Despite the absence of two starting defensive backs, the Big Red defense allowed Flanner only an early score be­fore it eliminated Flanner's at­tack completely. 
"The guys who filled in played like they had been there all year," said defensive back Anthony Aguilar. ''I'm just so proud of this team." 
While the defense stalled Flanner, Smariga, Monohan and the rest of the offense used a balanced attack to fool Flanner's defense. Monohan gained over 50 yards rushing, and Smariga finished the game 4-6 for 70 yards. 
The Big Red need a win over Grace on Thursday to win the division title, but appear to be carrying a tremendous amount of momentum after this im­pressive win. 
"It feels so good to win, I just can't believe this team will set­tle for anything else against Grace." said Aguilar. "We can taste the division title." 
GRACE 12, MORRISSEY 0 
Captain Jeff Abbott led a fierce defense and Steve Romine scored two touchdowns as Grace earned their first win of the season. 
Romine scored his first touchdown on a 1-yard plunge, set up by Chad Tate's 45-yard reception which put Grace in­side the Morrissey twenty yard line. "Our pass rush was really potent," said coach Matt Garberina. "Jeff (Abbott) really boosted the intensity on the field." 
Grace's playoff hopes are still alive, but they would need to beat Dillon and hope that Morrissey falls to Off-Campus. 
ZAHM 10, ALUMNI 6 
A dropped pass in the end zone with~.; seconds remaining cost Alumni a victory and a chance to clinch the division ti-tie. 
The Dawgs drove to the Zahm three yard line after recovering a fumble, but failed to score on fourth down, despite quarterback Jim Passinault's perfect pass to his tight end. Alumni was attempting to comeback from a four point deficit, which they attributed to their own mental mistakes. 
Zahm was able to surprise the Dawgs on the first play, a 60­yard tailback option pass which put Zahm at the Alumni thirty yard line. A few plays later, Zahm opened a 6-0 lead on a short scoring run by Matt Seng. 
On Alumni's first offensive series, a botched snap between center and punter led to a Zahm fumble recovery at the ten yard line. Zahm was held to only a field goal, but expanded their lead to a margin to great for Alumni to overcome. 
A 60-yard touchdown pass late in the game to Alumni re­ceiver Willie Alvarado would have given the Dawgs the lead, motion penalty. able to slip through the Otter 

"We weren't really sharp," secondary unnoticed. Laboe said Alumni coach Mark caught the ball at the ten yard Gillespie. "We didn't play like line and waltzing into the end we normally do. We had a lot of zone untouched. mistakes." Laboe's final second heroics 
were made possible by the de­
fensive work done by Carroll KEENAN 7, STANFORD 0 lineman Hastings Siegfried. The A controversial call in the fi-lineman caused a fumble and 
nal moments of the game then recovered it, setting up the marred Keenan's second victory games only score. of the season. "This was a tremendously 
With a little over three min-tough game." said Vermin utes remaining, Keenan run-linebacker Dan Sullivan. "We ning back Dave Dettore took the were able to stop their offense handoff at the two yard line, and that was a key." and appeared to be dropped for The Rockne division champi­a loss, but was ruled in the end onship will be decided as zone by the officials. Carroll faces Fisher in a battle 
"That call was very question­of unbeatens. The game will bfil able," said Stanford defender the regular season finale for Willie Bruening. "It didn't ap­both teams. pear that he made it in." 
Questionable or not, Dettore's FISHER 6, PANGBORN 0 score was the only points either Penalties and turnovers held team could muster in the the Pangborn offense at bay as intense defensive battle. Neither Fisher remained unbeaten in team was able to control the Rockne division play. ball. Fisher scored on a 35-yard 
touchdown pass from quarter-CARROLL 6, SORIN 0 back Paul Zachlin. The pass fell 
John Oleksk completed a 60-complete over the outstretched yard bomb on the game's final arms of Pangborn defensive play to keep the Vermin's per-back Brad Holub, who ap­feet record intact and set up a peared to have perfect coverage showdown with Fisher for the on the play. Rockne division title. Pangborn threatened offen-
Oleksk took the snap from sively late in the first half, when center with under 15 seconds to a 35-yard field goal try sailed play. He scrambled to his left, wide left. eluding three Sorin defenders Pangborn watched as Fisher before throwing a desperation eliminated their playoff hopes, pass fifty yards downfield. and clinched a playoff birth of 
but it was nullified by an illegal ~"So~m~e"'ll:h~ow~...An~th'lll:o~n~y:.-L..ab;.;.o,;..eo....w.;,ao;;.s_...th.;.e;;.;i;.r,.;.o..wn....;...________,. 
Upstart Cal stands in way of Huskies' run for roses 
BERKELEY, Calif. (AP) -finished 7-3. Bring on the Huskies. "It appears right now the 
"We're wired in for next team to beat in the conference week," California coach Bruce is Cal," Washington coach Don Snyder said minutes after the James said. "They are becom­Bears' 45-7 rout of Oregon ing a very solid football team." cleared the way for next The Huskies, also the defend­Saturday's showdown against ing Rose Bowl champs, aren't No. 3 Washington. "We will bad, either. They toyed with have no problem with the atten-Nebraska (4-1), ranked No. 9 tion." this week, in a 36-21 win at 
With the victory over the Lincoln, Neb., on Sept. 21. Ducks, Cal (5-0) improved six Other than that, Washington spots to No. 7 in this week's AP has easy wins over Stanford, Top 25 poll -the first time Kansas State, Arizona and since 1968 the Bears have Toledo. Cal has victories over cracked the Top 10. Washington Pacific, Purdue, UCLA, Arizona (5-0}, meanwhile, clobbered and Oregon. Toledo 48-0. In Saturday's game against 
For their part, the Huskies are Oregon (3-3). Cal forced six eager to play a highly regarded turnovers and recorded seven team. sacks. 
"We're hungry," Washington "The main thing we wanted to linebacker Donald Jones said. do was put pressure on the "We want to win all of our quarterback, and we did," said games and we're going to do nose guard Mack Travis. what it takes to win a national "They're an average Pac-10 championship. But it's getting line, not anything to thumb kind of boring against teams your nose at." that can't compete with us." The Ducks (3-3) played with-
The defending Pac-10 cham-out quarterback Danny O'Neill, pion Huskies should feel confi-injured last week and out for dent since they beat the Bears the season with a thumb injury. 46-7 last year in Seattle. While They alternated with Brett Washington looks even stronger Salisbury, Troy Crowston and than a year ago, Cal is much Doug Musgrave, all of whom 
American Heart &'a

improved from last season spent the day on the run. 
Association V

when it finished 7-4-1. Cal is off "We knew they had a new to its best start since 1952 quarterback coming in, so we when it won five straight and _:w:.:a:n:t:::,e~d_:t~o_:j~u~s.:;.tJ:P~U~t.!p~r.::;e~ss~u:r.::;e~o~n~..!;;;=:=:=:=:;;;;...;;;;;;=:;;;;;=;;;;;;;;;;"i 
MO GIMMICKS-~ EXTRA INCOME NOW!~ 
BIYEl.OPE snJFFING -$600 · $800 IM!ty week • 
Frwo.lllll: SASE to 



lkool<olnlomotlonll, Inc. 
P.O. Sa<-•Orlando, FL328e8 

We're looking lor an enthusiastic Individual who wants to get Involved in JPWI992 

AppUcaUon• lor JPW Sophomore . 
Chairperson are available at the Student 
Activities omce. DeadUne: 3:00 Fri., Oct. 
18th. 
Dan has turned 

-=-M..~ 
t\ORffiU c'fnr~fR cfOR Tttf <fl R T s 
Oct. 11-Nov. 8 Thurs. Nov. 7 Moreau Galleries Little Theatre 
Dianne Reeves Saint Mary's Handmade Paper Women's Choir Susan Messer, Fall Concert 
Drawings Admission Free Admission Free 
Nov. 14-17 Fri. Nov. 23 O'Laughlin Auditorium Little Theatre Saint Mary's Theatre Jonathan Frid's Hansel and Gretel: Shakespearean An Old Tale Newly Told Odyssey Saint Mary's Saint Mary's student tickets: $3 student tickets: $3 
Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in Olaughlin Auditorium, Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Visa/MasterCard orders at 284-4626. 

• 


Tuesday, October 15, 1991 The Observer page 19 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 


BILL WATTERSON 

CROSSWORD 
@Edward Julius 
ACROSS

Collegiate CW8708 
1 Roller-coaster ride sound 
7 Fundamenta1 s 13 Feeling of failure 15 Pickering or Hogan 16 Resort or car . 17 Straighten again 18 Wrong19 ----in one's side 21 Lao-­22 State ---­23 Well-known club 24 Public disturbance 25 Before 26 "StoTpin' at the 
27 Bartletts 28 Was ambitious 30 Gives out cards 31 Breakfast dish 32 Henry, John, or 
Glenn 33 Treeless plain35 Revives (2 wds.)38 Roger or Dudley39 Openings40 World War II agency

---··-·--. 

42 "It's-!" 12 Rains frozen 43 Stuck in mud raindrops44 Tease 14 Original inhab­45 p'art of NNP itants 46 Wrestling holds 15 Chum 47 Pertaining to birth 20 Juvenile delinquent49 Hydrogen, for one 23 "Key-"51 Testimonial 24 Studies 53 Vehement speeches 26 Actress ----Hasso 54 Obtains 27 Fathers, in France 55 Proceed in a 29 Arctic explorer
gliding manner 30 Like St. Peter's 56 Hate 32 Wooded areas 33 Flowering plant DOWN 34 Pillagers35 Irish city1 Predicament or 36 Severe pain
fight 37 Pain relievers 2 Imaginary monster 38 Valuable French 3 Gorges paintings 4 Sponsorship (var.) 39 Ancient Britishers 5 Greek Mars 41 Most competent 6 "Bei ----Bist Du 43 Bank inventory
Schoen" 46 Mother of Clytem­7 Dutch Africans nestra 8 Astronaut Shepard 47 French resort 9 Spanish for sun 48 Touch on 
10 First 50 --jongg 11 Bleeps 52 Buttons or Barber 
.. 
CAMPUS 

3:30 p.m. Presentation, Introduction to Hcsume Expert, Paula Cook. Career and Placement conference room. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
7 p.m. Film, Women in Hollywood Series, "The Naked Kiss," introduction and discussion to follow. Hillary Hadner. Annenberg Auditorium. 
9:15p.m. Film, "Carrie." Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURES 

3:30 p.m. Graduate Seminar, "Supported Metal Oxides­Synthesis, Characterization and Catalysis," John Eckerdt, University of Texas, Austin. Boom 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. Sponsored by Chemical Engineering. 
4:15 p.m. The Henkels Visiting Scholars series, Culture of Revolutionary France, Lecture/Recital: "Contemporary Themes in French Music of the Revolutionary Period," James Johnson, Boston University. Annenberg Auditorium. 
, 
MENU 
Notre Dame 

Oven-fried Chicken ... Make Your Own Burrito Bar Garden Vegetable Quiche Baked Chicken w/Herbs 
Saint Mary's 
Herbed Baked Chicken Beef & Bean Chimichangas Ravioli (Cheese) Deli Bar 


Sports 
page 20 Tuesday, October 15, 1991 
Women booters gain first national ranking at 16th 
Irish soccer records two shutouts, remains unbeaten 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 11-5. The lone goal came on a goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga's Sports Writer Jodi Hartwig header at 30:08 of sixth consecutive, which ties the first half. After that the her own school record. 
Two 1-0 victories against defense, led by Andrea Kurek, William & Mary and Monmouth took over. Kurek shut down The Irish' lone goal was over the weekend helped propel William & Mary's Rebecca scored by Stephanie Porter on a the Notre Dame women's soccer Wakefield, who was ranked as deflection off Jeanette Nash, the team to their first ever national one of the ten best players in Monmouth goalkeeper, at the ranking, as the Irish are ranked the country and is a former All­10:30 mark of the first half. 16th in this week's ISAA poll. Amercian, limiting her to only Porter now has an MCC-leading They have now accomplished two shots. twelve goals on the season. one of their goals-establishing themselves as a national power. "This was a great win for our "We might have had a little 
"I came here when the pro­program. We established our­bit of a letdown after William & gram first started, and we had selves as a team that can com­Mary, but we did what we had next to nothing," an excited pete nationally against all com­to do to win," Petrucelli com­Irish tri-captain Susie Zilvitis petition," Irish coach Chris mented. "We were very said. "This [the national rank­Petrucelli said. "Defensively, we successful in the first half at ing] shows how far the team were very solid. Andie did a keeping the ball and going has come in such a short time." great job on a great player." forward, but we could have had 
The tough wins this past a better total game." weekend were what pushed the The Irish followed up Friday's Irish into the country's elite. On crucial win with another strong The Irish (10-0-2) do not have Friday, against William & Mary, defensive performance in long to rest on their laurels as a perennial national power, Sunday's 1-0 triumph over they travel to New England to Notre Dame came out on top of Monmouth iQ the WAGS take on eighth-ranked the hard-fought defensive Tournament. The shutout was Massachusetts on Saturday, and struggle despite being outshot the team's fourth in a row, and Providence next Tuesday. 
Women's tennis impresses at Brown Invitational 
By RICH SZABO Harris reached the finals before 6-2, 6-4. Strassner dejeated Sports Writer falling to Tennessee's Mandy Notre Dame's Kristy Doran, the Wilson 6-3, 6-4. Also in that top seed, 7-6, 6-3 in the 
The Notre Dame women's bracket, freshman Laura semifinals. tennis team went into this past Schwab, proving to be a great The Irish doubles teams met weekend's Brown Invitational addition to the team, reached with more success than in their 
• looking to continue its strong the semis, succumbing to opening tournament, placing all play and reinforce the notion Wilson 6-2, 6-3. Both Harris four teams in the finals. that it can compete with any and Schwab, along with Christy Faustmann and Tholen team in the country. Faustmann, will be competing captured the first doubles title The Irish played well, sending in the All-American tournament at Brown, defeating Laura all eight singles players to the in Los Angeles next week. Flynn and Cindy Kuragami of semifinals, with two reaching In second singles, sophomores Yale 7-6, 6-4. Claiming another the finals. All four Irish doubles Faustmann and Lisa Tholen title for the Irish was the teams made it to the finals, and reached the semis, with tandem of Doran and Catherine two claimed championships. Faustmann falling to Shannon McGinley, who took the fourth­Despite the. success throughout Kagawa of Tennessee 6-2, 6-2 doubles bracket with a 7-6, 6-1 the entire lineup, the team may and Tholen dropping a 7-6. 6-0 finals victory over Liz Allen and have suffered a little letdown match to top-seeded and even-• Beth Hutton of Washington. this week, considering its dom­tual champion Cindy Kuragami "This weekend was really inating season-debut perfor­of Yale. The two did not play a fun," said McGinley. "This was mance a week earlier at the match to decide third and my first real road trip, and we Irish Invitational. fourth place. had a good weekend. Kristy and "We had a pretty good week­Similarly, Terri Vitale and Ann I had never played doubles end," said Irish coach Jay Bradshaw both fell in the together, so things started out a Louderback, "but we did not semifinals of the third-singles bit slow. We got time to hit, play as well as we had the bracket, and did not play to de­which helped a lot. After that, weekend before, and I think cide third and fourth place. we played progressively better that part of it was because we Vitale, seed-ed first, fell to and better." had played so well the week be­Jackie Brown of Rice 4-6, 6-2, Rounding out the doubles fore at home. We probably had 6-4, while Bradshaw lost to Tse flights, top-seeded Bradshaw a little letdown." Lan Lee of Tennessee 6-3, 6-4. and Bende fell to second-seeded 
Letdown or not, the Irish still Eniko Bende, seeded third in Paula Juels and Emily Fisher of turned in some impressive per­the fourth-singles draw, made it Tennessee 6-4, 6-3 in second formances. In the first singles all the way to the finals before Kristy Doran reached the semifinals in D singles and won the D doubles 
see TENNIS/ page 15

flight, top-seeded Melissa falling to Blair Strassner of Rice flight with Catherine McGinley for the Irish at the Brown Invitational. 
Men's linksters finish second to
Some strange happenings down by the Bay 
This definitely has not------­Well, since Matt Bahr drilled home a 42-yard 
Xavier at MCC Championships
been a good year for Bay field goal as time expired to give the New York 
Area dynasties. Giants a 15-13 victory and ended San By JIM VOGL Xavier didn't win it, we lost it." 
First, we watched the Francisco's drive to "three-peat," we've seen: 
Sports Writer Irish junior Chris DaytonOakland 1\s sink faster than •The departure of free safety Ronnie Lott to 
earned the individual first place 
a Dave Stewart forkball. In Plan B free agency. 
The Notre Dame Golf team medal with a 220. Also, senior April, everyone was ready to •The loss of quarterback Joe Montana, wrapped up its fall season with Mike Cristani shot a 231, goodgiftwrap a fourth American perhaps for the season. to an elbow injury. 
a second place finish at the for seventh place. 
League pennant to the 1\s, •The emergence of the New Orleans Saints in MCC championship at Highland Dayton, who has proved to bebut by September, they were Rene Ferran the NFC West. 
Country Club in Indianapolis the team's most consistent 
in unfamiliar territory: •The results of the NFL's desire for parity. 
last week. player this fall, was also the top 
fourth place. _ _cO~u~t~o~f!::::Bo~u~n~d~s_ 
The 49ers' made a mistake by giving up on 
At last year's tournament, Irish finisher in the Cincinnati Then the San FranCisco Giants became Lott, who, along with running back Roger Craig, Xavier shot a 36-hole total of Collegiate Tournament in the another object lesson in why mass free agent signed with the l::.os Angeles Raiders in the 604, just three strokes ahead of team's last meet on Septembersignings do not guarantee pennants. The Giants offseason. Lott has shown with his play that he the Irish, to claim the 21, where Notre Dame placedspent millions on Bud Black, Dave Righetti, and has not dropped off much from his dominating 
championship in the rain­eighth.
Willie McGee, but other than a late-summer years in the Niners' secondary. 
shortened competition. "Individually, Chris has rush that brought them to six-and-a-half back, He made a key tackle on a goal-line stand to This year, Xavier gave a re­played the best golf of his life their only joy was playing spoilers to their arch­preserve Los Angeles' 12-6 victory over San peat performance, this time this fall," raved Thomas. 
enemy, the Los Angeles Dodgers. Francisco earlier this season, and his soundly beating the Irish 907 to Of his recent performance,And now we have the San Francisco 49ers, a interception in overtime Sunday set up a game­930 in the 48-hole marathon Dayton had appropriately bit­team that won two consecutive Super Bowls for winning field goal against Seattle. 
contest. Irish Coach George tersweet sentiments. 
the first time since the Pittsburgh Steelers But perhaps the 49ers would have survived Thomas emphasized the rivalry "It was personally satisfy­turned the trick in 1978-79, and celebrated four Lott's departure if not for the loss of Montana, between the two top teams. ing," said Dayton. "It's nice to titles in the 1980's. So far in the 1991 season, the premier quarterback of this era. His "No one else was in con­win your first college tourna­the Niners are a cool 2-4-having lost to Atlanta presence, on the sidelines, in the huddle, at the tention.," said Thomas. "It was ment. But we were disap­
39-34 on Sunday afternoon at Candlestick line of scrimma~. gave the team an aura of 
simply a two team struggle. We pointed. We felt we had the Park-and are in last place in the NFC West. 
would have won it last year if best team, but we didn't play
see BOUNDS/page 15

What has gone wrong for the 49ers? 
not for the rain. This year 
see GOLF/ page 16 









