---------------------------------------------------~----------~ 

VOL. XXIII NO. 135 
THURSDAY , APRIL 25, 1991 
i .THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S . -· 
Explorer discusses journeys to ends of the earth 
By SHANNON RYAN cross the Antarctic and the first During the trip, the group will News Writer Antarctic expedition to forego conduct medical research about motorized vehieles and dog­women's psychological and Explomr Ann Haneroft will sleds. According to Bancroft, physiological changes under beeonw the first woman in his­"Not taking the dogs means such extreme conditions. "It tory to reaeh both the North cutting our (2 million dollar) (the research) is our way of and South Poh~s on foot upon budget in half." saying thank you for the sup­sueeessful completion of the port we have received," said 
1992 AmPrican Women's The women will traverse the Bancroft. '"Scientific research Trans-Aretie Expedition (AWE), fifth largest continent on skis on females has been minimal to which shn discussed in a while pulling 200 pound sleds date." lecture Wndnnsday. of provisions. When the wind is 
An aceornpanying slide show at their backs. the group will The women will be monitored depicted the 1986 Stl~ger Inter­utilize up-ski canopies, for hormonal, lipid and men­national Expedition to the parachute-like devices that strual cycle changes, variations North Pole. on which Bancroft catch the wind and propel them in immune system functioning snrwd as tlw photographer for aeross the ice. The 1700 mile and changes attributed to bio­
National (;eographic. trek is expected to take four rythmic effects. Attention will months. also be focused on any measur­"From there (the North Pole), able effects of large doses of 
it was a very natural progres­Bancroft. a former physical ultraviolet radiation from the sion for nw to want to see the education and special depleted ozone layer of Antarc­South Pole....truly. the fulfill­edueation teacher, stresses tica. ment of a childhood dream," AWE's educational and she said. "This trip should not environmental commitment. Bancroft's appearance at the 
pn~sent as many physical "Antarctica is a politically Loftus Center was sponsored by barriers (as the Steger unique, environmental hotbed. The Year of Women, The Saint Expt~dition); it will be far more It is crucial that we bring back Mary's Women's Studies Pro­
a nwntal than a physical this trip and make it a closer gram and student government, ext~rcise." part of our Jives," she said. the lUSH Women Studies Pro­The live-member group will "We need to take what we gram, and the St. Joseph be the first all-female team to learn into the classroom." County YWCA. 
U.N. military observers open first posts in southern Iraq 

SAFWAN, Iraq (AP) -Un­armed U.N. military observers opened their first posts Wednesday in southern Iraq, but a U.S. Army colonel said his troops would stay on indefi­nitely to protect Iraqi refugees. 
The U.S. flag was lowered and a blue United Nations flag raised in its place during a brief noontime ceremony in 100-degree heat at a check­point vacated by about a dozen U.S. soldiers. 
However, Col. Bill Nash of the 3rd Armored Division's 1st Brigade, said roughly 5,000 troops under his command would remain in southern Iraq to provide security and humanitarian aid to thousands of Iraqi refugees. Many of the Iraqis supported a failed uprising against Saddam Hussein and fear reprisals from his security forces after U.S. 

The Observer/ Elizabeth Peterson 
Slam! 
Bystanders watch closely as a Notre Dame student "slams one in" during the An Tostal-sponsored Slam Dunk contest. Twenty-seven contestants in two separate categories took part in this event Wednesday afternoon behind the bookstore. 
withdrawal. the estimated 40,000 displaced who commanded Arab forces 
"We're not moving out, we've people at camps run by the during the Gulf War, was just handing over this spot," Americans, Saudi Arabia and quoted as saying he informed said Nash, of Hayden, Ariz. the Kuwaiti Red Crescent the United Nations and the U.S. 
After the Stars and Stripes Society. military of plans to take the were lowered, Nash turned to But the Saudi government refugees. the U.N. area commander, Lt. Wednesday completed a camp The first refugees could be Col. Peter Feely, and said: "We that can accommodate up to transferred Sunday from will continue to protect the 30,000 people and said it will Safwan to the Saudi camp, near refugees." accept and shelter all Iraqi the border town of Rafha, 
The U.N. peacekeepers have refugees, The New York Times which may be expanded to hold no mandate to conduct reported in Thursday editions. 50,000 people, the newspaper humanitarian operations for Saudi Lt. Gen. Khalid Sultan, reported. 
Brother Scully is 'Rector of the Year' 
Special to The Observer 
Brother Bonaventure Scully, rector of Keenan Hall, has been named Rector of the Year by the Hall Presidents Council at Notre Dame. 
Among the most popular res­idence hall rectors, Scully has been an enthusiastic supporter of spiritual retreats and social service projects for Keenan Hall residents. 
In addition to his assistance in organizing these and other hall activities, Scully was re­sponsible for what one student recommendation called the transformation of "an aban­doned dungeon of a basement into a bright, well decorated and much-used social area with drop-ceilings, piped-in music, televisions. pool tables, video games and study space." 

Brother Scully 
Also, largely through Scully's efforts, Keenan Hall boasts a small library and the only mu­sic room in any campus resi­dence hall. "Quite simply," wrote the student, "he has made the hall itself a more comfortable place to live." 
A native of Baltimore, Md., Scully graduated from Catholic University of America and pro­fessed vows in the Xaverian Brothers in 1951. He holds a master's degree in chemistry from the University of Detroit and a master's degree in reli­gious education from Loyola University in Chicago. · 
Before becoming Keenan Hall's rector in 1985, Scully taught science and religion and served as counselor, retreat di­rector, and principal for Xave­rian Catholic high schools in Massachusetts, Kentucky and New York. 
lie has also served the Catholic school systems in Den­ver, Colo. and Memphis, Tenn. as superintendent and his reli­gious order as its provincial vocation counselor. In 1971, he became the first president of the National Association of He­ligious Brothers. 
Gorbachev defeats attempt to oust him 
MOSCOW (AP) -President Mikhail Gorbachev on Wednes­day quashed an attempt by hard-line Communists to oust him as party leader, claiming his departure would create an "explosive power vacuum" and lead to dictatorship. 
Strengthened by a last­minute agreement by leaders of nine Soviet republics to back his economic "anti-crisis" plan, Gorbachev outmaneuvered his critics at a closed meeting of the party's 41 0-member Central Committee. 
In the process, he again demonstrated the political skills that brought him from a minor post in the provinces to the top of the party and have allowed him to survive six years of turbulent reforms. 
The agreement with the re­publics was reached late Tues­day after the republic's leaders were reportedly brought to Gorbachev's dacha, or country home, in southwestern Moscow. 
Gorbachev's concessions to the reformist leaders -includ­ing dropping an unpopular tax and a possible cost-of-living wage index -gave him the backing to thwart the hard-lin­ers. 
Among those at the meeting was Gorbachev's chief political rival. Russian Federation Pres­ident Boris Yeltsin, whose sup­porters have staged recent ral­lies demanding Gorbachev's ouster. 
The hard-line regional party bosses and other powerful Communists who gathered in 
see U.S.S.R. I page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Toying with the idea of 
I
marr1age 
One of my best friends will soon be, quite frankly, going to the Chapel of Love. 
In the immortal words of the Dixie Cups, they're "gonna get ma-a-a-rried." 

It all happened at Fat  Paige Smoron  
Shirley's. Fat Shirley's is a  Assistant Accent  
diner highly acclaimed for  Editor  

their very functiona.._________ coffee mugs, and cursed for their sticky stools. 
We were all sitting at the counter, and, not yet realizing that we had become one with the marmalade on our seats, we were rhapsodizing about how exceedingly comfortable it was to grip these mugs (they were ideal, really), when I suddenly noticed the couple immediately to my left. 
She was weeping. He was sweating. They were engaged. My mind whirled with a thousand questions. 
Did I get to throw the shower? What would I wear? Could I possibly talk her into having fuchsia and teal as her wedding colors? 
How much did the ring cost? When it's my turn, will I settle for anything less than nine carats (the rock, not the gold)? If she had said no, would he have been able to return the ring? Or only exchange it? Would the salesclerks snicker and suggest cufflinks as consolation? 
More importantly, did she have to get married? After all, it all comes down to babies. I can't imagine any good reason to get married except to have babies. 
To be honest, I've toyed with the idea o having a child out of wedlock, eliminating the annoying male counterpart altogether. Actually, I've toyed with the idea of having a child out o wedlock every two years, maybe trading them in or something -they're only cute for so long. But I know it's something I could never follow through on. I might lose my credibility. 
Our waitress (who, being only mildly cor­pulent, couldn't possibly have been the Fat Shirley. I wouldn't call her svelte, though, either. Let's call her Well-Fed Willa) interrupted the blissful reverie to ceremoniously announce her preference of being paid before the actual digestion process begins. 
We showed W. F. Willa the ring, but she didn't seem to be too surprised. "Oh, that happens here all the time." 
Shocking, but true. Fat Shirley's is South Bend's very own love shack. 
I'm afraid this recent betrothal might have affected me. For example, during room picks, I opted to live on the "garden level" (most conducive to being serenaded). 
Every time I encounter a child-person under the age of two, I involuntarily blather in nonsensical monosyllables (also, sometimes i you poke their little tummies, they'll cover up their eyes with their chubby hands). 
Perhaps one of the most awkward devel­opments is that lately, whenever someone approaches me and says, "Paige, will you-" I throw my arms around the speaker and shriek, "Yes 0 YES, a thousand times YES!" 
And I must admit that I've become a regular at Fat Shirley's. (I can't help it. I love their mugs.) 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today' s Staff: 
News Business Lab Tech Peter Loftus Colleen Gannon John Rock Megan Junius Rich Riley 
Colette LaForce VIewpoint Sports Barb Moran Mark McGrath Systems Shannon Ryan 
Pat Barth RICh Riley Scoreboard Bnan Stalter Anthony King Ad OeSI!Jn 
Circulation Jean-Philhppe Thole Accent Chris Hanely GregWach Jahnelle Hamgan Lu Medeiros Ahssa Murphy Anna Mane Tabor Michael Whitman 
Graphics Ann Mane Conrado 
Production Lisa Bourdon Cheryl Moser Ann Buff 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Antarctic mining talks deadlocked 
•MADRID, Spain -Talks aimed at protecting the fragile Antarctic environment were at an impasse today over the issue of mining on the continent, the leader of the U.S. delegation said. The United States is among the 38 nations that signed the 1959 Antarctic Treaty and are attending a special conference on the Antarctic environment. The treaty banned military bases and nuclear and other weapons testing, but did not address mining and drilling for oil on the frozen continent. All signatories support at least a limited moratorium on these practices. More than a dozen nations including France, Australia and New Zealand go even further and favor a permanent ban. The United States, Britain, Chile, China and Brazil are the strongest opponents of this permanent ban. 
NATIONAL 
Rooney's new book spares no one 
•LOS ANGELES-Mickey Rooney was posing for a nostalgic photo outside his old home grounds, MGM studios, now occupied by Sony-owned Columbia Pic­tures, when a minor official questioned his presence. Rooney was understandably upset. "Young lady, I spent 14 years of my life at this studio when it was MGM," he snapped. "I made $6 billion for this studio." Rooney 
OF INTEREST 
~Sophomore Siblings Weekend participants can ptck up proofs of photos from the weekend this week only in the class office (213 LaFortune). Come by Wedn.esday from 4:30-6 p.m. or 3-5 p.m. on Thursday or Fnday to place orders. Deadline is Friday, April 26 at 5 p.m. 
•A 
graduate organ recital will be given by Martin Tel this evening at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Tel will perform works by Bach, Durufle, van Noordt, and Reges. 

•A 
dual undergraduate piano recital will be given by Suzanne Brown and Ellen White at 12:30 p.m. in Room 115 of Crowley Hall of Music. Brown will perform pieces by Chopin and Mendelsshon while White will perform pieces by Debussy and Beethoven. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April24, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NVSEINDEX ~ 166.80 Million 209.17 1.I .49 S&P COMPOSITE 382.76 {r 1.00 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,949.50 {r 19.05 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD {7 $ .85 to $356.1 0/oz. 
SILVER {!r 1.95¢ to $3.92/oz. 

covers his MGM heyday as well as the rest of his tumultuous 70 years in his new autobiography, "Life Is Too Short." The author spares no one, especially himself. Each of his eight marriages is covered, and Rooney blames his own inattention and infidelity for the breakup of most of them. His sexual activity seems a compensation for his stature (5-foot-3). A youthful fling with Lana Turner resulted in her pregnancy and an ensuing abortion, he reports. Despite his closeness to Garland, about whom he writes tenderly, there was no sexual spark between them. 


•Tickets 
required for entrance to The Guess Who Concert on Saturday April 27 should be available Thursday at the LaFortune Information Desk. The first 2500 tickets are good, rain or shine. The second 2500 are only valid for shine. 

•Habitat 
for Humanity will be having a walk-a-thon this Sunday. Please call Paula at 237-0788 today if you are interested in participating. 

•Foodshare 
is looking for someone to be in charge of its summer program. This person would organize groups to take food from South Dining Hall to the Center for the Homeless after every dinner meal. If you will be here this summer and are interested, call Jen Rudoplh at 283-4432 or Jen Rolph at 283-4963. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1898: The United States formally declared war on Spain. 

• 
In 1901: New York became the first state to require automobile license plates. The fee was one dollar. 

• 
In 1945: Delegates from 45 countries met in San Francisco to organize the United Nations. 

• 
In 1983: Soviet leader Yuri Andropov invited Samantha Smith to visit his country after receiving a letter from the Manchester, Maine, schoolgirl that had expressed fears about nuclear war. 

• 
One year ago: Violeta Barrios de Chamorro was inaugurated as president of Nicaragua, ending 11 years of Sandinista rule. 



-~--~-----­
SMC justice and peace program marks 1Oth birthday 
~ 

,., f ~ J 
,. 
. < ' ' I ~! 
• 
..~­
I 

Break up 
Riot police break up a demonstration by striking health care workers in Lima, Peru, Tuesday. The government has called on the workers, who are striking for a pa)' increase over the $70 a month they currently make, to abandon their 34-day strike to take care of chvlera victims. 
• • • Appear •In our RESUME BOOKS Deadline Friday, May 10 Placement Services  VARSITY SHOP HAIR DESIGNERS TUf Vlltfil ·• ,. \::·~ ." IWIIIDI:IMINI..._._ ~ ~/-Welre On The Move! 52580 U.S. 31 NORTH 277-0057 (across from North Village Mall) STUDENT WORLD PREMIERES Original projects from Notre Dame Communication & Theatre Film and Video Production Students MONDAY APRIL 29, 7:00 & 9:00 PM Snite Museum of Art Admission $2.00 All proceeds donated to EL CAMPITO DAY CARE CENTER  

By KIM MYLES program as "infusive, pervasive News Writer in the college." A diverse group of disciplines 
Ten years ago, an ad hoc are involved in the justice mi­group of Saint Mary's students nor. Religious studies, business, and faculty voluntarily met to political science, and philoso­discuss issuns of justice and phy represent only a few of the peace. departments which sponsor 
This week. the commitment courses emphasizing justice is­
to peace eontinues as The Saint sues. Mary's Justice Education pro­"In justice education, faculty gram celebrates a decade of learn and students understand existence. concepts that they take to other 
Justice education coordina­classes; attitudinal changes de­tor, Esmee Bellalta, defines The velop," said Bellalta. Saint Mary's Justice minor "Most of all, the measure-
Coffey selected head of Honor Code committee 
Special to The Observer selected by the dean of the col­
lege for a two-year term. 
John Coffey, a junior from Student representatives to the Alumni Hall, has been selected committee, comprising no less to chair the University than 50 percent of Academic Code of Honor membership, are selected by Committee for the 1991-92 the student members of the academic year. individual College Councils. An 
Coffey, a member of the Com­undergraduate student, mittee for three years, will also selected by the committee serve as Student Body members, serves as Treasurer next year. chairperson of the committee 
The University Academic Code for a one-year term. 
of Honor Committee, as com­Members of the Committee for missioned in 1987 by the Uni­next year include: Professor versity Academic Council Stephen Batill, College of Engi­
(comprised of faculty, adminis­neering; Kami Benson, Knott trators and students) is respon­Hall; Debra Heerensperger, sible for establishing llonor Farley Hall; Professor Gerald Code guidelines, educating the Jones, College of Science; Notre Damc community about Professor Edward Kline, thn Codn of Honor, and College of Arts and Letters. promoting high standards of Also, Ed Lavelle, Zahm Hall; ethical and moral integrity in Professor Kevin Misiewicz, Col-academics. lege of Business 
The membership of the Administration; Raymond University Academic Code of Sepeta, Freshman Year of Stud­Honor Committee is comprised ies Office; Jay Stone, Fisher of both students and faculty Hall; Jennifer Switzer, members from each of the four BreenPhillips Hall; Gary colleges and the Freshman Larson, Dillon Hall; and Father Year of Studies, along with an Oliver Williams, Associate administrative member Provost. Additional student representing the Office of the members will be added next Provost. The faculty are semester. 
ment of justice education is in­visible. Justice is almost like prayer; fairly invisible but the input it has is very powerful," Bellalta added. 
"It is the goal of the depart­ment to grow, to pass on the awareness of justice from year to year and to work with a community of specific needs through collaboration," Bellalta concluded. 
Bellalta, the founder of the Justice Education program, said her own experience as an 
AP Photo 

educator in politically unstable Chile gave her contact with in­justice. She said she sought an outlet to "help students to be leaders of a personal under­standing of what more can be done." 
She sees this as "an effort to collaborate with others. To join together, on a human level, to enact changes in society which no government will (have the personal insight to) do." 
The week long Justice An­niversary celebration concludes with a peace tree planting and raffie for El Campito Day Care Center outside Madeleva Hall Thursday at 4:15 p.m. "In the King of Prussia," a film about peace activists in western Pennsylvania, will also be shown at 7 p.m. 
On Friday, the lecture, "To act justly-the goal of all educa­tion," will be presented by Fa­ther Michael Himes of Notre Dame in Stapleton Lounge. A wine and cheese reception will follow. 
The Observer 

page 4 Thursday, April 25, 1991 
Death row inmate may not be sane enough 
BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) ­Michael Owen Perry becomes aggressive and hostile when he hears about pop singer Olivia Newton-John, who he thinks is a goddess living under the Louisiana town where he killed five relatives. 
He also has shaved his eye­brows so his brain can get more oxygen. 
The issue isn't whether Perry is insane. It's whether Perry should be medicated to make him coherent enough to be exe­cuted. 
The state wants to force Perry to take Haldol, a power­ful mind-altering drug, so it can strap him in the electric chair. Defense attorneys say the plan, once tossed out by the U.S. Supreme Court, is cruel and unusual. 
State District Judge L.J. Hymel is scheduled to take an­other look at the case on Thursday. 
"It is contrary to what we have said we are going to do with the death penalty," said Perry's attorney, Keith Nordyke. "As a society, we have decided that we are going to have the death penalty for cer­tain crimes, but we are not go­ing to execute certain people. That includes the insane." 
A 1986 U.S. Supreme Court ruling bars states from execut­ing anyone who is insane. 
Perry, now 36, was convicted of first-degree murder in the 1983 shootings of his parents, brother, cousin and 2-year-old nephew in the small south Louisiana town of Lake Arthur. Perry lived in a trailer behind his parent's home. 
According to authorities, Perry said he first used a pistol to shoot the victims, then re­turned later with a shotgun. 
During a police hunt for Perry, authorities said they had learned he had written fan let­ters telling Newton-John that he thought she was a goddess who lived beneath the town. Police also said Perry was turned back by security guards when he tried to visit her Cali­fornia home. 
Perry's mental state rapidly fell apart after he went to death row. In October 1988, Hymel ruled that Perry's mental illness rendered him incompetent for execution. But Hymel also ordered that Perry receive medication -against his will if necessary -so he could regain competence and be executed. 
"Louisiana's interest in the execution of that jury's verdict overrides those rights of Perry," Hymel said. 
But last November, the U.S. Supreme Court in November set aside Hymel's ruling. The high court ordered the judge to restudy the case in light of an­other ruling that gave prison officials the right to force in­mates to take drugs -provided that it was in the prisoner's best medical interest and if the inmate posed a threat to himself or another. 

Nordyke said that even with the drugs, Perry "is never really coherent." However, the state attorney general's office said the drugs help Perry and the state has a legitimate 
interest in  seeing that  he  
becomes  sane  enough  to  
execute.  

During arguments before the Supreme Court, Justice Thur­good Marshall, who opposes capital punishment under all circumstances, asked state at­torneys why Perry was not sim­ply given enough mind-altering drugs to kill him. 
"It would be cheaper," Mar­shall said caustically. 
Medical resident suspended for AIDS mishap 
CHICAGO (AP) -A first-year medical resident was relieved of his duties after giving a woman a gynecological exam with a swab that may have been used on a patient with the AIDS virus, a hospital spokesman said Wednesday. 
Officials at Illinois Masonic Hospital refused to discuss details, except to say that Dr. Omar Gaeda, a resident in internal medicine was suspended pending an internal investigation. 
The hospital planned to release a more complete statement Thursday, said a nursing supervisor, who asked that her name not be used. 
The woman was inadver­tently tested with the used 
swab last week during a routine test for cervical cancer and has been advised by doctors to take the drug AZT, her lawyer, Philip Corboy, said Tuesday. 
AZT, or zidovudine, is used to combat AIDS. 
"The terrible aspect of this is that she's in doubt; she doesn;t know where she stands," Cor boy said. "This woman ... has been faced with the possibility of a disease that she never had to face before." 
"They've protected her as much as possible by pre­scribing the AZT. But she's a mother and a wife with two children and a husband ... she's scared as hell," he said. 
The woman, identified only as Jane Doe, filed a lawsuit Tuesday against the hospital and Gaeda in Cook County Circuit Court. The suit says they were negligent and failed to take appropriate precautions. 
There was no telephone listing for Gaeda in Chicago or its suburbs. 
Corboy said his client, who is in her early 30s, was referred to Illinois Masonic by her health maintenance organization for a medical checkup, which included a Pap test. 
The Pap test for cervical cancer involves scraping cells from the cervix, which are examined for signs of abnormal development. 
The woman said Gaeda 

returned to the room a few minutes after the exam and told her he mistakenly used a swab that had been used on a person with an infection, according to Corboy. 
Corboy said the hospital wouldn't comment about the infection, but two other staff doctors told her to immediately begin taking AZT, which she did. Corboy said the prescription of AZT led him to believe the other patient has the AIDS virus. 
The state Department of Public Health, which regulates and licenses hospitals, is investigatiPg the matter, said department .,pokeswoman Pam Locklin. 
SECURITY BEAT 
,,,tAONDA:Y• 
.:.......... ,. ::;:, 

1~~(;3 ••'!!·, A Lewis resident reported tet;:elvlng hilrassing·phone <:ails. l2t33 p.m. A University Village resident reported reqejYing harassing phone <:ails. 
3:13 p;m. Soourity responded to a report of a visitor experiencing chest pains at Sacred Heart Church. Security assisted the .ND Fire Department in treating the person who was then transported to the St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
5:19. p.m.. A Pasquerilla .East resident was Injured during a soccer game on Stepan field, Security assisted the ND Fire Department in treating the persOn who was then tran5p(lr1ed to the St. Joseph's Madi· calCenter. 
5:39 p.m. Another Pasque.rilla East resident was Injured during a soocer game on Stepan field.. ·Security assisted the NO Fire Depanment in treating the person who was then transported to the St. Joseph's Medical Center. &:04 p.m. A Pangborn resident fl3f)Orted!he thafl of his unlocked bicycle from the Wti!Wa,yadj;~(:ant to his room. 9;p p.m. Se<:Urity responqed to a reportof. .a University employee suffering a PO!>Slble stroke at the Administration ~lil!Qing. Security assisted the !liD. Fire Qe!l9rtrnent in treating the person_wtio was t!'!en transported to the St. Joseph's Medicat Center. 
.m; A Grace resident reported the ·a textbook from his floor study !Qjjnge, 
11 :46 p.m. Two Grace resident$ reported .the theft of their textbookS from their floor J!:tUdy l(}unge. 
TUESDAY, APRIL 23 
i2:20~.m. A Flanner resid.ent reported re<:iQiVing harassing phone calls. 1.:30 p;m. A Support Services employee reported that a screen had been torn off a baseme111 window at the house on the University's Oakdale property. 
8:50 p.m. A resident of Grace Hall reported the theft of his wall!~! from the Coat radl of North Dining Hall. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL24 
9:45 a.m. An employee of the Rolfs Aquatic Center reported the theft of a U.S. Divers wet suit from a secured room. The theft occurred over lhl:l weekend. 2 p;m. A resident of Stanford Hall reported receiving false phone calls from a person identifying himselfas a university official. 



U.S.S.R. 
continued from page 1 
the Kremlin tried to force Gor­bachev to give an account of his handling of the embattled party and crumbling economy. That would have opened the way for stinging criticism and a move to force Gorbachev to step down as party leader. 
In recent weeks, some hard­liners have demanded separat­ing Gorbachev's dual posts of general secretary of the 18 mil­lion-member Communist Party and president of the country. 
Also, Gorbachev has faced resignation calls from re­formists who believe he has be­trayed his original democratic vision. 
The effort to make Gorbachev give an account of his govern­ment was defeated by a show of hands, with the overwhelming majority supporting Gorbachev, Central Committee member and historian Roy Medvedev said in an interview with The Associ­ated Press. 
The official news agency Tass said before the meeting began that Gorbachev was "under at­tack by the party apparatus, the so-called conservative forces, which are seeking revenge for the perestroika (reforms) that he started in 1985." 
Because the Central Commit­tee meeting was closed, details of Gorbachev's maneuvering were unknown. 
But his main thrusts were clear: He brandished the agreement with republic lead­ers as evidence that he was taking resolute steps to halt the country's economic collapse, and painted a dire picture of the power struggle that would occur if he stepped down. 
Summer 

STORAGE 
RESERVATION [ 683-1959 ..J 
• Al•JlJtOX 2 1/2 MII..ES NORTH US 31-33 Master Mini Warchou~cs 
Carriage House Dining Room: Just for Notre-Dame graduation weekend the Carriage House Dining Room will open at 5:00 PM Sunday May 19th. 
Taking reservations now. Call Evelen George 272-9220 

~4-~~ude-21? 
)]]8.)~ ~<!ID~S) ~mfmffi 
Love, Mom & Dad 



WASHINGTON HALL 1990-91 MAINSTAGE SEASON 
Reserved Seats $7, Student and Senior Otizen discounts ore available on Wed., Thurs. and Sun. Tickets ore available otthe door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center information desk. For MasterCard and V;sa orders coli (21 9) 239-8128 

"Let's soberly imagine what would happen if these demands are fulfilled: The destruction of the lawful state structure would inevitably create an explosive power vacuum," Gorbachev told the plenum, according to Tass. 
"And no matter who were to come out on top, in place of democratic institutions would come arbitrary rule -to put it simply, a very real dictatorship, and not the imaginary one that some people see in the current constitutional regime," he said. 
Gorbachev hailed the signing of a joint statement by the leaders of nine Soviet republics as "the start of a turning point" for the nation. 
There, he made several con­cessions to the reformist lead­ers, offering to cancel an un­popular, new 5 percent sales tax on everyday goods and to consider a nationwide wage in­dexation program. 
The republics that did not take part in the agr.eement were the three Baltic states, as well as Georgia, Armenia and Moldavia. 
Religions focus attention on sex 
NEW YOHK (AP)-Sex, often ealled an obsession of modern soeiety and its mass media, also is attracting concentrated attm1tion by religious organiza­tions. 
Four major Protestant de­nominations have had special task forces probing the subject, and Homan Catholic bishops n~eently issued their first com­prnhensive guidelines about it. 
But this shouldn't suggest "it is some form of fixation," dis­tracting the church from its work of evangelism and serviee. says an Episcopal commission's report on human sexuality. 
"There is too much else to be done for God." 
Nevertheless, special panels of two denominations -the Episcopal Church and the Pres­byterian Church (U.S.A) are recommending basic changes in church stances about sex, particularly homosexuality. 
Indications of wide opposition cast doubt on whether church conventions this summer would approve the reports and made sharp controversy about them inevitable. 
In both cases. recommenda­
tions are being made that would allow ordination of ac­tive or non-celibate homosexu­
als to the clergy, and also 
would ask consideration of 
blessing same-sex unions. 
"Coming of age about sexual­
ity requires affirming a diver­
sity of responsible sexualities in 
the church, including the lives 
of gay men and lesbians," says 
the Presbyterian report. 
In a third denomination, the United Methodist Church, a study committee also has tenta­tively decided to recommend dropping its condemnation of homosexual practice as "incompatible with Christian teaching." 
The Rev. William Mason of Tulsa, Okla., chairman of an evangelical wing, Good News, sees "absolute indignation" among both clergy and laity as the result. 
The issue, however, won't be acted on by that denomination until its next general confer­ence in 1992. 
A fourth denomination, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in American, also has a special sexuality study under way, but its conclusions won't be ready in time for the biennial church assembly in August. 
Still another religious body, the Central Conference of American Rabbis, representing Reform Judaism, last fall acted to allow ordination of active homosexuals as rabbis. 

Roman Catholicism's sexual education guidelines, approved by U.S. bishops and published in February, uphold traditional positions limiting sex relations to marriage and requiring celibacy in singleness and the clergy. 
However, recommendations by the Episcopal and Presbyte­rian panels would condone sex­ual relationships of homosexu­als, and allow ordination of those involved in such unions. 
All "persons can benefit from the comfort and support of close relationships," says the Episcopal report. "We agree that homosexual relationships 
· often provide such comfort and support and exhibit commend­able love and commitment." It is recommended that "the church be open to ordaining gay men and lesbians otherwise qualified who display the same integrity in their sexual relationships which we ask of our heterosexual ordinands." The Presbyterian study panel was sharply divided, 10 to six, in its majority conclusions that acceptable sex relations need not always be confmed to mar­riage -the traditional church position. 


Desert barber 
A Kurdish refugee father cuts the hair of his child in front of the family tent in the Yakma refugee camp in Turkey Tuesday. 
Work up to 6 months •n Bnta1n. Ireland. France. Germany. Jama1ca. New Zealand. and Costa R1ca Counc•l"s Work Abroad Pro· gram. the only,one of 1ts k•nd 1n the US. cuts through all the red tape' 
Call for FREE brochures on work programs. diSCOunt a1r fares. language courses. and more. 
Colihcil on lnt"l Educational Exchange 
(U.S. Sponsor of the lnt"l Student /.D. Card) 
is apure delight, .. . A convulsively funny satire. .. Nichetti is a real find." 
-Sheila Benson, L.A. TIMES 
"Maurizio Nichetti re-invents neo­realism to suit the speed. neon and neurosis of the nineties -De Sica directed by Woody Allen. " 
-Marcia Pally. PENTHOUSE 
"Maurizio Nichetti's comic masterpiece.... THE ICICLE THIEF is celestial, acomic and Sjltiric and slapstick heaven for movie obsessed angels. " 
-Jay Scott, TORONTO GLOBE 
~ ... ·······•········· 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRI & SAT 7:30, 9:30 


The Observer/ Elizabeth Peterson 

It's a bird, it's a plane, it's a band 
Students block the bright sun from their eyes while watching a band perform at Fieldhouse Mall Wednesday afternoon. Warm temperatures and An Tostalactivies have lured many away from their studies before the pressure of upcoming final exams begins to take over the campus. 
Reporter ordered to jail but court delays 
WASHINGTON (AP) granted a postponement of the managing editor, said after the 
Washington Post reporter contempt of court citation until court hearing, "We're happy Linda Wheeler was ordered to further notice, and gave she's not in jail. We've got a jail Wednesday for contempt of lawyers until Friday to submit long road to go." court after refusing to identify papers for a hearing. a news source, but an appeals Levie ruled Monday that "This remains a very impor­court quickly granted a delay Wheeler waived her right to tant case because if reporters allowing her to remain free. keep her source's identity con­are not able to protect their 
Wheeler cited the First fidential when she revealed the confidential sources it will Amendment guarantee of free­name to two U.S. Park Police frighten the confidential dom of the press in refusing to officers -one of wbom has sources in the future and it will testify who gave her a since become her husband. frighten reporters in the fu­confidential police handbook. ture," Downie said. But Superior Court Judge Those two testified last week Wheeler appeared nervous at Richard Levie said that if the that she told them the source first as she refused, 31 times, to amendment had given her any was Washington D.C. Police answer questions put to her by protection she "blew it" in Chief Isaac Fulwood Jr., who attorneys for the plaintiffs and revealing her source outside was assistant chief at the time. defense. court. Fulwood denied in a sworn de­
Levie ordered that Wheeler, position giving Wheeler the "I respectfully decline to an­called as the first witness in a handbook that is at issue in the swer that question based on the civil case against the D.C. lawsuit. protection given me by the First police department, be jailed "Whatever privilege may Amendment," she repeated. until she testifies or until have existed, Miss Wheeler Downie said Wheeler had ar­
testimony is completed in the blew it" by revealing the name rived at the courthouse pre­case. to others, Levie said pared to go to jail and added, However, the District of Wednesday. "She's determined to act re­Columbia Court of Appeals Leonard Downie, the Post's sponsibly and professionally." 



MONEY NOW, PAY LATER
• 
Graduates, we have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 

NEW AUTO· 9.75°/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your first year as part of this special offer. QUICK CASH· 13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this loan, you simply write a check!

[@ RELOCATION· 9.1 °/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to repay. You must also have our Mastercard and line-of-credit. 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 

NOlRE DAME FEDERAl CREDIT UNION 
Separale from the University 


------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------­
Thursday, April 25, 1991 The Observer page 7 

Future of Little 500 in question after revelry 



BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­City officials, Indiana University administrators and students and apartment owners and managers are trying to figure out how to stop the troublemaking associated with the Little 500 bicycle race. . 
In a news release, IU Presi­dent Thomas Ehrlich said he is "keenly disappointed with the harmful and even violent con­duct of those individuals whose behavior has cast a shadow over the Little 500 weekend. 
Countless hours of hard work by thousands of IU students to make the Little 500 weekend successful were quickly sub­sumed by the disgusting actions of those who chose to break the law and violate the rights of others." 

Off-campus revelry led to hundreds of alcohol-related ar­rests after the bicycle race this past weekend. Officials have History moved questioned whether the annual event should be canceled or
This photo issued by Armenpress Yerevan Tuesday shows the statue of Lenin which dominated the 
held at a different time. 

city's main square for 46 years being removed from its pedestal on April 13th. The statue has been 
"Police officers and our inno­

placed in the Armenian National Museum, next to the statue of Czarina Catherine II. 
cent citizens should not be sub­jected to the kind of abuse they received last weekend," said Kirk White, an IU public rela­tions official, former IU Student Association president and City Council member for the area where much of the rioting occurred. 
"Steve Sharp should not have to worry about someone trying to beat him with a pole," White said of the city's police chief. "There's no excuse for that. It 

~:M(TERN SHIPS (FALL BREAK '91) We're looking for some good students. Find out more about the program at an information session held on Monday, April 29, at 6:00 in room 122 Hayes-Healy. Sponsored by -----­S.A.R.G. (Student Alumni Relations Group) and the Notre Dame Alumni Association Applications are available in Room 201 Main Building.  
April, 1991 52203 U 9 33 NOP'ITI-I • lOUTH I'I.NO, INOIANA 468J'r • (219) 2J ;' llfiO.C Members of Graduating Class/1991 University of Notre Dame du Lac Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, IN 46556 Dear Graduating Students, CONGRATULATIONS!!! After many years of hard work, study and commitment your labor has been rewarded. The ownership and employees of Basney Imports, BMW, Mazda, Volkswagen would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your accomplishment. As you enter your career or further advanced studies, we at Basney Imports would like to extend to you the EXCLUSIVE BASNEY IMPORTS COLLEGE GRADUATE AUTOMOBILE PROGRAM. Our program is unique because we will work with you to: A) FIND THE CAR THAT FILLS YOUR NEEDS B) HELP SECURE FINANCING, (DEFERRED PAYMENTS AVAILABLE) C) SPECIAL PRICING CONSIDERATION ON OUR ENTIRE STOCK OF BMW, MAZDA, VOLKSWAGEN (PRICING SO LOW, SAVINGS SO TREMENDOUS, WE WILL NOT PUBLISH, OR PRICE OVER THE PHONE) D) ENTER YOU IN THE VOLKSWAGEN JETTA GIVE-AWAY DRAWING E) GIVE YOU FREE CAR MATS WITH VECHICLE PURCHASE G) PROMISE YOU FRIENDLY, HELPFUL SERVICE AND A GREAT DEAL! PLEASE CALL OUR PROGRAM HEADQUARTERS AT (219)272-8504 FOR YOUR PERSONAL PROGRAM CERTIFICATE. THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE YOU. c8.n~L~JJA.(IH{~sr'l J es P. Allanson PROGRAM MANAGER  

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A mu­seum worker who combed through Purdue University's archives believes he has found the clue that could tell the world once and for all what re­ally happened to pioneer avia­tor Amelia Earhart. 
Gary Quigg, who is a pilot himself, says the clue lies in two old photos of Earhart, who disappeared over the South Pa­cific during an around-the­world flight 54 years ago. 
Quigg, 28, discovered the photos last month in a Purdue library. Earhart was a women's career counselor at Purdue in 1935. 
The photos show her and navigator Fred Noonan stand­ing in front of the open cockpit door of their twin-engine Lock­heed 10-E Electra a few days before their July 7, 1937, dis­appearance. 
Also visible in the photos is an object resembling an alu­minum box that Quigg said looks like a bookcase used to hold navigation records. He be­lieves it is the same one found in 1989 on Nikumaroro, an un­inhabited island in the South Pacific. 
The box was found on the is­land by members of The Inter­national Group for Historic Aircraft Recovery, of which Quigg is a member. 
It has been identified through its serial number as an avia­tor's bookcase, and FBI tests dated it to the 1930s. But it wasn't linked to Earhart's plane before Quigg found the photos. 
"That makes me feel good," he said in a recent interview. "I feel like I contributed some­thing." 
Now, recovering the plane and solving the mystery is his next goal. 
Earhart. already one of the most prominent celebrities of should not be tolerated in our city, and if we can't figure out a way to get this under control. then we should consider not having the race." 
Sharp. who was threatened with a stick in a riot at the Varsity Villas complex where hundreds of students live, isn't calling for the race to be canceled. But he agrees changes must be made. 
Sharp said he will propose changing the race from spring to fall, when students would not be celebrating the end of the school year. and to a week­day rather than weekend. He also suggests giving it more lo­cal focus and discouraging out­of-town attendance. 
"They're coming in to have a good time, and they're very de­structive too," Sharp said. 
IU Foundation President Cur­tis Simic said Little 500 does "a heck of a lot of good" and should not be canceled "just because a few people are living outside of the law" any more than should football or basket­ball games. 
Simic, who would have final say on any changes, does not see how changing the season would help, but is "willing to listen" to all proposals. He said he would consult with city and IU officials before making deci­sions. 
City officials say off-campus partying has escalated since the' Bloomington campus dean of students cracked down on al­cohol use on campus. 

Indiana pilot may have a Clue to Earhart's vanishing 
the 1930s, became a eult figure after disappearing about 3.000 miles north of New Zealand, somewhere between Lae. New Guinea, and Howland Island. 
She had become the first woman to cross the Atlantic alone in 1932 and the also the first woman to fly solo across the United States that same year. In January 1935 she be­came the first woman to fly from Hawaii to the U.S. main­land. 
Her disappearance triggered a massive search, and has led to speculation ever since. Among the theories put forth was that she was spying on the Japanese for the United States and was captured and died in captivity. Other theorists as­sume she simply became lost and ran out of fuel over the ocean. 
TIGHAR's theory of what happened to Earhart and Noo­nan goes like this: 
The pair became lost and crash-landed on a coral shelf extending from Nikamaroro, which was once known as Gardner's Island. The shelf was exposed because the tide was low, but the plane was probably washed away within a few days when the tide came in. 
Meanwhile, Earhart and Noonan set up a camp on the island but died. probably from thirst. before rescuers could reach them. 
The U.S. Navy dispatched the battleship USS Colorado to the area. But the ship, traveling from Hawaii, took a week to reach the remote island 2,000 miles away. 
Lt. John 0. Lambrecht, the Colorado's senior aviator, re­ported seeing signs of recent habitation on the island, but no people. 


----~­
. 
. 


)"· :G'.~~· ~-<~\G •: A 
~. ~""' ..~ 'k.~~~~ 

~. ~~-~ 1/JA
a ~ ~ 
~~ --~~-" t'~f.rtt Da.f\e 
)flf~~.~,---.~--iL e~ ·~ .k• •+
• ~, ·· 4 
..,_··~~. -.> 
\;1 •. 

Thirsty Thur~day SMC Da.y ~ 3'1C Nit .feo.turin9 : pick Holiday and -the BaMboo Gan3 
FroPt 4-7P~on1he. L\bro.ry Green ND·student~ hovt. to mn\<e sure. to · ~t Coe.x froM Dortvl Rep. 
AlSO: je\\o pit~ lirnbo contest . . canoe ro.t.ino corn\val ~,~,~,.0~ 
-J ~~,"-.,.
In An eIn: ~~o.:.r: 1pm Love Connection -~ 
' 




Business 
Thursday, April 25, 1991 
page 9 

Homelessness exists a few miles beyond the Golden Dome 
THE JERICHO SESSIONS 
an all-original Notre Dame CD Sampler featuring ... 
XYZ Affair Bone Forest
w 
A
Doghaus Chisel
L L
SYR 

Jester 
A s 
5 O'Clock Shadows N Chronic Desire 
D c The Turquoise Sidewalk A Fresh Water for the Horses T M Greg Jeffrey H B Ralph Falbo Trio B 
Tony Graffeo Little Geneva
D 
0
Brian Muller Don McGahn
w 
Exit 77 N Sigi Loya 
Dominic Campanella & Chris Nor borg 
On sale for just 8 bucks beginning Thursday at all An Tostal music events 
Questions . . . call WVFI at 239-6400, 'cause those idiots sponsored this. 
By COLLEEN GANNON Business Editor 
The comfort of dormitory rooms makes the problem of homelessnHss seem distant. P1wple often picture the down­trodden lining strHets and sub­way stations in large cities, but not in South Bend. 
Heality shows the homeless scrape for survival only a few milf!S beyond the Golden Dome. 
ThH Hope Hescue Mission, 532 South Michigan, provided 16,046 beds for the homeless lust year. The Center for the llomeless, R 1 :1 South Michigan, provided 1,903 beds lust month. 
The U.S. Census Bureau counted 236 homeless people in the shelters or visible on the streets of South Bend in 1990. 
The Center for the Homeless provides shelter and services that help reintegrate the home­less into sociHty. 
;\ major expansion to the Center ineludHd 13 family rooms and a dormitory which can accommodate 40 women. It also included a playroom, triple the office space for Madi­son Center programs in support of addicts and the mentally ill, and expanded office space for a lngal aid clinic staffed by ND law students. 
The Center has the capacity to accommodate 150 guests and currently has 60 to 70 res­Idents. The number of beds provided for March 1991 de­<~reased to 1,903 from the 3,540 provided in March 1990. 
The Center encourages its residents to set goals and helps thnm find employment. 
Hope Rescue Mission 
"0 
Q) "0
·:;: 
e 
Q..{J 
Ul c: 
al ~ 
co_g 
..... ­
0 .s Qi
.D 
E 
z ~ 
1980 (7,545) 
1990 (16,046) 
The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado 
The Hope Rescue Mission also works to meet the needs of South Bend's homeless. 
The numbers at the Mission have increased dramatically. Between 1980 and 19$10, the number of bnds rose from 7,545 to 16,046. 
The numbers have not only risnn but the composition of the population has also changed. Ninety-five percent of the Mis­sion's homeless population was male in 1954. Forty-five per­cent of the beds have be·en for women and family groups in the last four years. 
Guests must tie in with a caseworker upon arrival at the Hope Rescue Mission. "One of the first things we require a person to do is to set up some goals," said Bert Harrison, ex­eeutive director. 
The Mission also provides Bible studies, chapel services, emergency transportation help, emergency medical help, a 
G.E.D. program and meals. 
The Advocacy Center, 117 North Lafayette Blvd., also 
The Church also has a food

Center for the Homeless 
pantry open five days a week, which serves approximately 250 people a month. "We are not fooled into be­lieving we are doing a great work, because it is really Band­Aid ministry," said Phillips. "I don't discount that, because when you are cut and bleeding you need some immediate at­


March March 
tention," she said. 1990 1991 The numbers served at the (3 540) (1 903) meal peaked a year and a half Th~ Observer/Ann~Marie Conrado ago at approximately 120, but 
helps South Bend's needy the extremely poor. ' 
"We'll try to help anybody that comes through the door, but it may not be financial. It might be just to listen to them, but at the very least anybody that comes through that door will be treated with dignity and respect," stated Sara Goetz, coordinator. 
The Advocacy Center has also observed a rise in the number of its clients. "From just 1989 to 1990 it went from 1 300 cases a' year to over 1:600 cases, and it is not dropping," Goetz said. 
Broadway Christian Parish United Methodist Church 1412 South Carroll St., provides a community meal every Sunday for its congregation and the Southeast Side neighborhood of South Bend. 
"We feel that what we are about is promoting fellowship in the neighborhood. We have round tables for the symbolism of everyone being equal," said Pastor Sara Webb Phillips. 
now average 60 to 70 people. 
Something needs to be done to help the homeless in a per­manent way. "We need to ap­pro_ac~ th!s t~uough the thr~e 
maJor mstJtutwns:. la?,or, _social welfare and housmg, said ND Professor Benedict Giamo. 
Goetz menti~ned !.he m_erit ?f scattered housmg. The Idea IS that if _you put lower i_ncome people mto a normal neighbor­hood rather ~han red-~ining them or puttmg them mto a section of a lot of poor people, they start to feel a greater se.?seofcommunity.". 
W~ need to build more housmg. We need to be smarter about the housing we already have that has just gone to rui?," said Giamo. . 

~ mcome problem combmes ~th a lack of affordable hous­mg to perpetuate homelessness. We can build units, but the homeless cannot afford them, said Giamo. 
. ~any o~ .t~e homeless have hm1ted abJhtJe~, such as lack ?f prop~r educatw~. but can still contnbute to society. 
Broadway Christian Parish has bngun an innovative project that creates jobs, The Southeast Side Neighborhood Summer Gardening Project. 
The project will employ 20 young people, provide fresh produce for the feeding pro­grams of the parish and clean up five vacant lots . 
Welfare reform will also be necessary in combatting home­lessness and extreme poverty in South Bend and in the nation. 
A single mother with one child in South Bend currently receives $229 a month. "Women are not having babies so they can get a lot of money because that is just not true in this state," said Goetz. 

National health insurance would benefit the poor, aceord­ing to Goetz. "With the re­sources we have in this country, there is no reason why one child out of eight goes hungry. There is no reason for people not to be able to access afford­able health care." 
A final problem needed to be approached is drug and alcohol abuse, said Goetz. "I don't think the answer is in prisons. I think the answer is in treatment centers," she said. 
'People like people' was the lesson of the day etched on the blackboard of the Advocacy Center. 
Maybe if Americans could remember this simple lesson, children would not go hungry, the sick and mentally ill would not want for treatment. and the homeless would not roam the streets of South Bend. 

-----·-----------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------. 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, April 25, 1991 
brand x short"s by Maril"he & Fran~ois Girbaud 

r--------------------------------------~-------~-------------­



_Viewpoint
Thursday, April 25, 1991 page 11 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ......•......•••••.•... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Edltor.•••.••.••••••....Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ..•••...••••••.David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor.....•••............ John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ............••••••••.•.•• Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor............ Emily Willett Controller..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-In-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and lns1de Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

First ND women faced sexism 
Dear Editor: 
I'm visiting the eampus for the w•~nkend and have read with great interest your articles on thn SUFH group and it's com­plaints against the University. I empathize with the group as I, too. was part of a minority wlwn I studied at Notre Dame. I was diseriminated against and made to feel unwelcome and unwanted on campus by the student body. Their feelings wnrn justified in some eases. 
For instance, hundreds of stuchmts received letters during the summer break in which they were told they'd been "lotteried" ofT campus; that the University needed their dorm rooms for an expanded incom­ing frAshman class. Naturally, the upperclassmen took their frustrations out on us. I regu­larly heard remarks in the din­ing hall or on South Quad like, "You don't belong here" and "Why don't you go to a school wlwre you belong'?" 
The University discriminated against us. While the rest of the student body had diversions and dubs which they could join and in which they could compete and socialize, we had none. While more than 95 pereent of tlw undergraduate students on eampus had maid service, laun­dry service and dry cleaning snrviee. we had none. While we were supposedly an important part of the University's make­up, we were ignored. Similar groups from other colleges were regularly invited to participate in social events. We weren't excluded per se, but we felt the University had made a statement that we weren't good enough for these events. 
Most of us didn't understand why our fellow students re­sented us and most of us didn't understand why the social at­mosphere was so difficult. On top of the academic and psy­chological challenges of a freshman year at college were added the emotional problems of feeling singled out, not fitting in and always wondering why. 
Through all of this I don't believe I or anyone else in my group truly faulted the University administrators for the situation. Their intentions and goals were righteous. My astonishment was simply that the management of a major in­stitution could have so poorly forecasted and planned the giant change they were at­tempting in the make-up of the student body. 
But we didn't demonstrate; we didn't hold sit-ins; we didn't retaliate with harassment. We organized regular meetings with our rectors and our pro­fessors. When things got to the "ridiculous" stage we held meetings in our halls with Fa­ther Burtchaell and Sister Miriam John. We worked with the University to make their original plan a success. 

It wasn't easy, smooth, nor without arguments. Having made the decision to create an enrollment that more realisti­cally reflected the national pic­ture, the University officials never stopped or refused to discuss how to develop an at­mosphere that would encourage others like myself to attend the school. 
The experiences I had at Notre Dame are with me every day of my life. The difficulties taught me how to change the status quo from within and how to compromise. The years at Notre Dame, however, could never fully prepare me for the prejudices in the real world of industry, but it was a good start. I might have been part of a minority group and we might have been unintentionally discriminated against, but women were a new phe­nomenon at Notre Dame in 1973. 
The one thing that was always apparent was that the Univer­sity was committed to making the transition work and I be­lieve they are equally committed to making a success of a more diverse student body. The commitment is 90 percent of the battle: the logistics usually work themselves out. 
Betty Wood Class of 1977 April 20, 1991 


Keenan crew offers apology for actions 
Dear Editor: "offensive actions against St. 
The Keenan Hall Hegatta Ed's," we did. Crew would like to formally We should also like to re­apologize to St. Ed's Hegatta mind Zahm and Stanford that Crew for hitting their boat with the statements carried by our waterballoons. We did not boat were in jest and in the know that they had requested spirit of inter-dorm rivalry. We that they not be hit with water­are sorry for any misunder­balloons and that they did not standings. 
Glenn Zubryo 
want to join in the revelry (or 
Pat Pennells 
chaos as some people would 
Keenan Hall 
call it). When asked by Fisher Regatta officials to stop 
April 21, 1991 
Anti-nuclear letter used flawed logic 
Dear Editor: increased environmental and 
The recent letter by K. Kelly health risks. Hartman (The Observer, April I am waiting for the day 16, 1991) exemplifies the when a detraCtor presents a typically flawed arguments of viable alternative and a the anti-nuclear community. workable plan for its im­
While announcing a sup­plementation. The risk ar­posedly objective discussion gument is moot-we all arrived entitled "Nuclear Energy: on this campus via automobiles Promise or Peril'?," Hartman or airplanes. asserts that nuclear power is not the "best alternative". Richard Ratelck Likewise, she links increased Off-Campus use of nuclear power with Aprll16, 1991 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 


'Neither a lofty degree of intelligence nor imagination nor both together go to the making of a genius. Love, love, love, that is the soul of a genius.' 
Mozart 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, NIJ, IN 46556 
DOONESBURY 


Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 25, 1991

page 12 
Students should take action to end campus apathy 
Does it ever bother any of you that we are growing up in the most apathetic time in history? Sometimes it seems like no one cares anymore. 
Here we are, content to sit at good ol' Notre Dame as we work away on our homework, making sure that we get our good grades so that we can get a good job or get into a good school when we graduate. Some people around here are so stressed out about making the Dean's List that they never stop to laugh at a good joke (or at life) once in a while. 
We'll end up in our nice ca­reers, we'll raise our families, and then we'll all die, and we'll all be forgotten without having actually achieved anything. Face it: most of us won't really make it into the history texts, and you sure can't avoid death. It's coming, like it or not, and you can't do a damn thing about it. 
Matthew Miller Column 0' Thrills 

Doesn't it bother you that, with a very few exceptions, that's what we'll all end up do­ing? Granted, there will be some of us who end up as politicians (and what an impact they do make!) or great scien­tists. But, for the most part, we're stuck into that rut be­cause that's just what everyone before us has done. 
Nicely put, our world is screwed. Man has single-hand­edly destroyed the environment (which, incidentally, doesn't be­long to him in the first place), causing huge health risks for future generations. One in ev­ery thirty African-American males will die a violent death. There have been over 120 wars on earth since 1945, and they are the cause of over 3 million deaths. Despots all over the world are killing people by the millions. 
So what do we do about it? How do we escape the pattern of complacency? How do we improve the world which we complain about daily in The Observer? Get involved. If you're worried about the thou­sands of political prisoners be­ing tortured all around the globe, join Amnesty Interna­tional. If you're worried about the environment, talk to Earth First!, an environmental action group that's not afraid to take a stand. Concerned about the homeless? Help at a soup kitchen. Do you want to help America's poor? Join the Ap­palachia service trip. Never think that your little bit won't help. If everyone thought that, no one would get anything done. 
If there's something you don't like about the University, go out and try to change it. Be­lieve me: people do listen to what you have to say. Do you think that Notre Dame doesn't give out ·enough financial aid to its students? Do you feel that the University should recognize the gay & lesbian group on campus? Don't like parietals? Do you think that DART is woefully inadequate? Write a letter, circulate a petition, do something. If you don't bring the issue into a public forum, no one will know how you feel. 
So don't just sit there, reading this semi-aimless column over your lunch tray. Think, just for a moment, about what really isn't just in this world, and think of a way that you can work toward a solution. Never stop striving for justice. If there's something wrong, it is our duty to put an end to it. You've got a voice-use it. 
Matthew Miller is in the Freshman Year of Studies and a regular columnist. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

ND student unfairly ejected from North Dining Hall 
that we had lost track of time 

\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ showen ~the entrance ~ong
and that it was 6:40 p.m. We If there is a dress code in the · with a snobby worker to inspect hurried to the dining hall to get At a loss for words (besides dining hall, I guess that I was those questionable areas such something to drink and eat. approached me. being an incredibly funny situa­never informed of it. I must as behind the ears and under tion, it was also a little humili­have missed the "Please shower the fingernails. The way I see 
Admittedly, our clothes were Without bothering to pull me ating and, as mad as I was, I before entering" signs at the it, though, this may tend to a bit muddy (mine more than aside, she stated in a LOUD, wasn't sure what would come door. All right, if I'd been adversely affect that dining hall hers as I was the goalie), clear voice "You can't be in out if I did open my mouth), I dripping and tracking mud efficiency which just continues though we did wash off and here looking like that." Think­turned to my friend to pass the through that impeccably clean to improve every year, and we wipe our shoes before we went ing that this was a joke or a message on. She laughed so dining hall, I'd understand their wouldn't want that to happen.in. After accepting our IDs and misunderstanding, I laughed, hard, she almost dropped her rather forceful request. How-The only other suggestion I agreeing to watch the soccer "What are you talking about?" tray. After disposing of the ever, this was not the case. We have is: lighten up! Even at ball, and without so much as a She raised her nose a few more uneaten meals, we retrieved the were muddy, but no more so McDonald's the sign just reads look of disapproval, we were inches in the air and replied in soccer ball and headed back to than we'd been after dorm "Shirt and shoes required." allowed in and served. Seated an incredibly snotty tone, "You the dorm without the meal for football games when the entire 
on the far side of the dining hall can't be in here that dirty," as which we had already paid team would go. I would have Kristen Orlando (which was practically empty) I if the dining hall were a four $6.50. even been a little more under­Siegfried Hall rose to get something to drink star restaurant. standing if we'd been informed April 24, 1991 
Reader finds professor's stipend proposal insulting 
Dear Editor: posal is insulting to mothers, hours preparing his classes, seeing your son take his first husband because I stay home is 
Professor Kmiec asks us if fathers and human beings in researching, writing and step? Why should I find fulfill­not to reward me. If Kmiec re­"the only measure of success in general. I agree that women publishing, we should have ment in my daughter's first day ally cares about mothers, he a Catholic University".. .is "the who choose to stay at home to been practicing our route to the of school? What accomplish­needs to respect that we are in­material rewards of the mar­care for their children do not OB ward. ment is there in watching my dividuals just like him. If he ketplace". (The Observer, April always receive the respect they Imagine the thrill felt by all child graduate from college? really cares about the place of 22). Ironically, the proposal he deserve. (I would like to add the students of Notre Dame No, success as a mother is seen women at Notre Dame, he submitted to the University, and that men who stay home to take (and their parents) when they thrQugh my husband's pay­needs to support all women, so artfully fail-ed to show his care of their children receive discover that our faculty has check. In order to make a despite the choices we make. readers, does just that; it even less respect.) Kmiec's the highest birthrate of any woman feel fulfilled, we will re­Some women are happy at attempts to legitimize mother­solution, however, is embar­major University. Who needs inforce the myth that fulfillment home, and therefore good hood on the basis of the rassing. I can only hope that he academic achievement? Pro­only comes in monetary terms. mothers. Some women are "rewards of the marketplace." never thought of its implica­fessor Kmiec has relieved the I am afraid that Professor happy at work and at home, The resolution that Professor tions. University of a great responsi­Kmiec misses the point. and therefore good mothers. Kmiec and his colleagues pre­It occurred to me and my bility. Notre Dame no longer "Advancement and (No woman works away from sented asked the University to husband, Chris, that had we needs to recruit qualified em­achievement for women" is not home and not at home, as well.) "award an additional and sig­known of this wonderful ployees. Just line them up for a synonymous with "out of the If he really cares about the nificant per child stipend to proposition 15 years ago, we fertility test! home and away from the "Notre Dame Family", Professor any married faculty or staff should have come to Notre family." I am no less a mother Kmiec should support the member whose family, in the Dame sooner. We never imag­Of course, paying my husband for being in law school than a family a family with a father previous academic year, in­ined a University where Chris for my birthrate will make me wife is less a woman for staying and a mother who raise a fam­cluded a mother who was at could be paid not for his skill in more fulfilled as a woman. My at home. ily together. How we choose to home and not employed for the classroom, but his accuracy husband's paycheck will now be However, individuals need to divide our roles in that family is compensation with children un­in the bedroom. It is certainly a a reminder of my contribution be rewarded for their own ac­an individual and private thing. der 18 years of age." novel idea. Instead of all those to society. Who needs the joy of complishments. To reward my This University, or any Univer­

The resolution was careful to mention, in a footnote, that federal law may require the ex­tension of this benefit to men as well as women. But the doc­ument goes on to assure the reader that, being a private University, we can dispense with such trivial notions of equality. 
As a faculty wife, a law stu­dent, and a mother, I would like this opportunity to explain to Professor Kmiec why this pro­sity, has no right to dictate my lifestyle. Kmiec has no right to impose his idea of "family" on the faculty and staff of this University. 
I am not, as Kmiec says, "antagonistic to the family." am antagonistic to a view that allows only one kind of family-his kind. 
Judith Fox Notre Dame law School April 22, 1991 


Accent 
Thursfday, April 24, 1991 page 13 


G'Day, Domer 
Notre Dame-Australia created with help from Notre Dame, U.S.A. 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI 
Accent Writer 
Tlw Univnrsity of Notn• Dame, Australia. locat•~d in the eity of l:rnPmantln on tlw country's wPstnrn roast, IH~gins its inaugural lnrm in August of this yPar with Notrn Damp, Law Srhool's ll!mn David Link serv­ing as tlw school's first presi­cknt. 
NDA will only hn thn sncond privati' univPrsity and thn first Catholic CHIP in a country the sizP of tlw continPntal United 
dccidt~d to model their
Statns hut with a population of prospective school after it. 
only 17 mi Ilion p•~oplP. All of the Aeeording to Link, the groupotlwr srhools in Australia are thought that Notre Dame wasfPdPrally fundPd. 
"evnrything a university shouldl.oc:atPd on tlw WPst•~rn coast be." The group was impressedof Australia at FrPPrnantiP, Link 
by Notre Dame's size, the
says thn srhool will draw most eollegiality of the students, andof its studnnts from tlw Pacific most of all a residentiality thatrim. 
would be unique to Australia.
Plac·ps suc:h as Japan, Taiwan, 
The group, which was to
and Singapon~ will lw sending 
evolve into NDA's evnntual
studnnts tlwre, but for tlw first Board of Trustees, then askedynar rwarly all of tlw students to usc thE~ same name. "Fromwill lw nativn Australians. 
the outset, all the interest was from their (the Australians')
Old buildings oncn used by 
side," Link says.NDA will starttlw Amnrica's Cup yacht race with "at least five and probably
association will house the six sehools." says Link.
Univnrsity until it moves to a Australia has a large nt~ed for:wo ar.rn sitn in the city of 
teachers and an educational
I'Prt.h. just North of Frnemantle. 
school will be the first part ofl'rnsnntly tlw prospective sitn is 
the University to be in­
hush country. 
corporated. An arts and
Link, who will bn in Australia sciences college will follow, thenfor mw ynar bnfore n~turning to 
a business school, then a law
Notrn Dame Law School. is a school or a medical sehool. 
I')5S graduatn of Notre Dame 
Link says he didn't
and a 1961 graduate of Notre 
know whether the law sehool orDamn Law Sc:hool. 
the medieal sehool would be
Along with Link, University first, but both will eventually be 
PresidPnt Edward Malloy, offcrnd. Last will be an
Provost Timothy O'Meara, and engineering school.
l·:xncutivn Vice Prnsident E~ William Bnauehamp serve on 
Within three years the
NDA's Board of Trustees. All of 
University will have all six
thnm will travel to Freemantle sehools. to offer. "Australia is ain July for thn school's inaugu­
great plaee with tremendous
ral board meeting. 
natural resources," Link says.
Why a private Catholie uni­
"They need the business and
vnrsity in Australia? The native engineering sehools to supportAustralians that eomprise NDA's th1~ir eeonomy." Australia alsoeurrent Board of Trustees, one has a large market for doetors
of tlu~m the Arehbishop of 
and nurses.

Pnrth, hecame frustrated with 
And of what caliber will the
Australia's federally funded 
school be? "To get it where it'sunivnrsitins. 
a viable sehool will take 20
This group was inl1uenecd by years," says Link. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, 
"Our motto is 'two thousand
president Hmcritus of thH 
lstudents) by lthe year) 2000,"'University and former Exeeutive says Link. By the year 2010Viec-Prcsidcnt Father Edmund 
Link hopes to have 10,000.Joyce when the two visited 
students at the sehool. He notedPerth, Australia four years ago. 
that NDA eould have manyThis group. not government 
more students to start out with
related, deeided to travel to but the foeus will be on the
America in 1989, and visited 12 quality of the students.
difTcrent universities. 
This year Link has been
Aftnr visiting the Notre Dame meeting with and interviewingcampus, the group agreed with prospective faeulty and studentsthe things llcsburgh and Joyee in Australia. Most of the faeulty
said about Notre Dame and 
will eome from the Paeifie rim. 

Some Notre Dame faeulty members will travel to Australia for the beginning of the January to Oetober 1992 session but Link was "not at liberty to say" who they were. Link also said he has reeeived ealls from eollege faeulty all over the eountry expressing interest in teaehing at the sehool. 
Link himself will only be staying in Australia one year. One of Link's primary goals is to find a permanent president for the sehool. preferably a native Australian. He said it was "very important to have an Australian president. But right now nobody there has mueh experienee in Catholie tertiary edueation." 
A little over one-third of the eountry is Roman Catholie but the ratio is slightly higher in the western part of the eountry, where the sehool is loeated. 
To emphasize NDA's wish to be a fixture in the Paeifie rim, the sehool was loeated on the western eoast instead of near Sydney or Melbourne, Australia's two major eities. 
Link, a "great believer in pri­vale universities," said "it's hard to imagine a eountry of that size with only one private university." There are no legal or financial bonds between the two schools but Notre Dame will offer NDA guidance in its first years. 
Student and faeulty exehanges will be the main part of this relationship. Stressing gradual growth for the school. Notre Dame students will not be able to visit the Australian eampus until the August 1992 term. 
-


·······························~ 
TO TEST OUR ADVERTISING : TEST COUPON : ADDITIONAL
L------------------------------­
BRING THIS COUPON TO THE TO TEST OUR ADVERTISING MCI BOOTH AND RECEIVE A BRING THIS COUPON &RECEIVE 
$ 

FREE M··.~"'':~ ~~J ONE PAIR OF 
OFF
3·MINUTE ;~: . i'' ANY 
~I • t.: • '' .·· • ; • 

5¢
PHONE CALL ~··:'... ·< 0 SOCKS FOR ATHLETIC SHOES TO ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD! 1000s OF PAIRS OF SOCKS 50%·70% OFF! LIMIT 2 WITH COUPON 
SLEEPING BAGS 
$12 
2-MAN TENTS s19 5-MAN TENTS s59 
~C!C!DOk 
SHOES 
$29 
-
--., 

SATURDAY 10 AM· 9PM 
TIRES STEREOS TVs LA GEARs VCRs REEBOKs CARS WICKER NIKES PICTURES LEVIS PILLOWS TENTS JEWELRY 
1 • POOLS PURSES GOLF CARPET SPAS RECORDS SOCKS TAPES COs T-SHIRTS 
4FOOT GIANT FLOOR PILLOWS S25  1000s OF COs F!799  5000 RECORD ALBUMS 99C ~ MUCH MORE  KENWOOD CD PLAYERS sgg WITH REMOTE  
WHILE-U-WAIT EYEGLASSES FRAMESS49LENSES COMPLETE BRING YOUR PRESCRIPTION OR YOUR CURRENT GLASSES  WATERBEDS $ MATTRESS • FRAME HEATER • LINER  @I•l~•M!:I~  JEWELRY GOLD SILVER FASHION o-MORE UPTO 70%($1OFF  
BENETTON AND JORDACHEJEANSs1gss  

FREE FREE 
PARKING PARKING

APRIL 27 & 28 

FURNITURE WATERBEDS EARRINGS MATTRESSES 
LEATHER COATS · 
HOME IMPROVEMENTS WHEEL CHAIRS SCUBA GEAR SATELLITE DISHES SUNGLASSES NO-RUN PANTY HOSE MUCH MORE!!!!! 
1ODDs OF BARGAINS • 1ODDs OF BARGAINS • 1ODDs OF BARGAINS 
-


Accent 
page 16 Thursday, April 25, 1991 

Dancecappella has got the beat 
By RENEE YOUNG Saint Mary's and Notre Dame were held for this particular Accent Writer students in the workshop piece in September and we include: Ann-Marie Amicarelli, have been working on it since." 
Saint Mary's College Mary Drumm, Kjirsten Hanson, Repertory Performance Doyle Harless, Andrea "Dancecappella" was one of Workshop received the Matovina, Laura Michaels, 32 pieces judged, with a total of Outstanding Artistic Kathy Mulrooney, Lori Nagy, 27 colleges participating in the Achievement Award at the Susan Olney, Maria festival. Each school was al­Great Lakes Regional American Perantinides, Nikki Weber, and lowed two pieces to be judged, Callege Dance Festival, held Karen Yuen. Valuable technical but Saint Mary's only piece, M~rch 7-9 in Mount Pleasant, support was given by faculty "Dancecappella," received one Michigan. member Julia Mayer and stu­of the nine awards given at the 

dent assistant Michelle Rogers. festival. 
The dance group received the award for its performance of These performers. along with Of the festival itself, Repertory "Dancecappella," chore­Cherry, created Performance Workshop ographed by Sue Cherry, visit­"Dancecappella," a dance with­member Michaels said, "It was ing assistant professor of dance out music. The only sound in helpful to talk with dancers 
at Saint Mary's. the piece comes from the from other colleges, my peers, Cherry, who received a dancers themselves. With the and hear their opinion on the 
M.F.A. for dance in 1988 from use of their bodies, their voices, dance ... because they are study­the University of Illinois at and sticks, the dancers accom­ing a variety of styles, I got a Urbana-Champaign, has been pany their movements. The good idea of what is out there." with Saint Mary's for the past rhythms and sounds they pro­Matovina would not divulge year. Along with choreograph­duce represent the actions they all the details about the perfor­ing "Dancecappella," Cherry express. mance tomorrow night. "The also served as a guest instruc­The sticks used to mark end is kind of unexpected, "she tor for the festival in modern rhythm are also used to create said mysteriously. dance technique based on the intricate patterns which glow in "Dancecappella" will be per­work of Jose Limon and Bill the dark in the finale of the formed as the finale in the Evans, among others. piece. "Spring Forward*Fall Back" 
The costumes worn in the 12 concert along with other works 
In the fall semester, auditions minute long dance are vivid by Cherry, Mayer and selected were held for the Repertory screen painted T-shirts that student choreography, in the Performance Workshop over match the leotards underneath. Little Theater, Moreau Hall on which Cherry presides. Matovina said that "auditions Friday, April 26. 
Potential for laughs on 'STAT' falls flat 
8:15 p.m. on a Tuesday same people who developed The patient felt fine when she A second method by which evening is the prime time for "Barney Miller." Even if a Marc Johnson examined him, and his test "STAT" attempts to get some studying. ln 45 minutes viewer did not follow this series To Be Continued ... results were inconclusive. Dr. laughs is through sexual innu­"thirtysomething" will flash religiously, its theme song must Hillary wanted to keep the endos. None were very offen­onto the tube on ABC, and the be one of the most popular that the daily paranoias suf­patient in the hospital, but Dr. sive, but maybe they would 
fered by viewers seem very
future yuppies of this campus tunes to hum in the shower. If Menzez did not. "He's alive, this have been funnier if they were. 
bearable.
cannot wait to discover the fun "STAT" did not leave a comic is an emergency room, let's get Dr. Hillary was hit on by an 
The doctors of "STAT" do not
that the problems of upper­impression, perhaps it could him out." orderly who complained about 
create nearly the same effect.
middle class life will present leave a musical one. Believe it or not, this "joke" the amount of work he had to 
The unproven team of Allison
them. With these meager expecta­had the laugh track on over­do. "You have to do everything
LaPlaca and Dennis Boutsikaris
No, this program cannot be tions, I watched the series un­drive, but what real viewer yourself," he complained as he 
portray the fictional hospital
written off so easily, and many fold. "STAT" was billed as "a would find this comment funny gazed at Dr. Hillary. "Of course, 
team of Dr. Hillary and Dr.
students do attempt to complete comedy set in a New York City enough to laugh about for five there are some things you can't 
Menzez, but the paranoid na­
tomorrow's 10 page paper in trauma center staffed by some minutes? do yourself." "Are you sure I'm 
tures of these characters are
the 90 minutes between of the best and most compul­Another supposedly humor­the one you should be· talking
not funny. 
"Cheers" and sively paranoid doctors and ous situation involved a doctor to?" "Maybe not," was the 
They are simply annoying 
-"thirtysomething." nurses in the world." who was forced to operate on a definitely not funny response. 
a is people who worry far too much,
On one particular Tuesday, I Whenever character lawyer. Two out of three stu­What is the moral of this 
and students do not need to
found myself with a small described as "paranoid," the dents on this campus are story? Since finals week has
empathize with such char­
amount of work to do and de­program in which this geared towards these profes­appeared on the horizon, this 
acters-they have roommates
cided to flip on the television 45 character appears had better sions, and "STAT" had the op­article has hopefully saved 
who perform these functions. 
minutes early. After watching be funny. portunity to create some great some valuable time. Not that 
An example of an annoying
"Roseanne" until 8:30 p.m., I Richard Lewis is the classic jokes between roommates, but time saved is time spent study­viewed the world premiere of example of how an actor should paranoia was found in Dr. it failed miserably. The laugh ing, but hopefully the reader 
Hillary's admission of a patient
"STAT," and I almost wished I portray a paranoid character. track did not seem to notice and realizes that there are much
who complained of terrible ch­
had another ten-page paper. "Anything But Love" portrays babbled on until the end of the better ways to waste time then
est pains. 
"STAT" is the creation of the Lewis as so completely neurotic program. watching "STAT." 

----------~--­


The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Noire Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classllieds Is 3p.m. All classilieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 
Lost: Black Gruen Sportwatch on CONDO for summer rental. Close S.U.F.R. OPEN FORUMS north quad in front of BP. II found to ND. 2 bd, furnished.Rent TICKETS ENGAGEMENT PARTY 
NOTICES 
please call Alicia at x3427 flexibleII Call 272-5708. i know a secret...! heard that TONIGHTIII NEED 2 GRAD TIX CALL BILL DEBBY REELITZ'S BIRTHDAY 295 LeMans TYPING AVAILABLE Lost: Brown leather bracelet LARGE HOUSE, 2 BATHS, 4/5 3546 is today AND that she is 211 295 LeMans 287-4082 w/ gold clasp. Mon. 23. Call BDRMS. $700. 282-1014. just remember that you did 295 LeMans 
X3950. Need two Graduation tickets not hear it from melII 5 o'clock! Resumes...Professional quality Bed and Breakfast tor PLEASEII! Call Bethe 288-0597 272-5667. (Tom Williams) graduation. A private bedroom and SUMMER WORK 
bath in lovely I need GRADUATION TIX!I Earn $4B21week+ Syl· I need that crap like I $$$ for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. private home within 12 mins. Call x1443 -leave message. Gain the job experience Fortune need a banana in a tail­hours 10-5:30 everyday Moving to Chicago? Female ND of campus. 500 companies are looking tor. pipe. Just remember: Pandora's Books 233-2342 grad needs roommate to share 2 Call 272-5989 SENIORS I Must be hard working and like to the most influential corner of ND Ave. & Howard bedroom apartment. Must be a non­I need 1 Grad ticket travel. person in church is an 
smoker. If interested, please call SUMMER SUBLETIOR NEEDED Please call Martha x4271 Informational Meetings: old lady... Debster Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award Ann at (312) 935-1958. Turtle Creek Apts, 2 bdrm Thurs. 1 :00 and 3:00 Winning Hotel, has rooms for sublet from June-Aug. Montgomery Theater Lafortune How many hairs does ROBBIE Graduation weekend. Located at KUWAIT, SAUDI WORKERS Call x3828 5:30 and 7:30 HENNINGS really have on his 
WANTED 

I PERSONALS 
Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles NEEDED $35.00 & up per hour. Tax Rm 124 Hayes-Healy chest? Call x1902 to guessll from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 Free. Both skilled & unskilled. For Need female roommates for Fall I got it. Fri. 1:00 and 3:00 Attention: BRAD BOEHM does nights with $110 deposit per room. info. Call615-779-5505 Ext. K-541. and Spring semesters at Turtle Come. And be my baby. Montgomery Theater Lafortune NOT have three legs. This rumor is Send letter with deposit to 3011 Creek. 5:30 and 7:30 completely false, he swears Ill Belvedere Rd, Elkhart, IN 46514. PLEASE,PLEASE,PLEASEI Amanda, 271-1995 Tired of paying high taxi fares? Am 124 Hayes-Healy 
need a ride to Cincinnati this Don't want to wait an hour for a taxi VOTE FOR JOHN O'BRIEN FOR BUDWEISER, COORS, PABST weekend. Will pay own way. SUMMER RENTAL to arrive? We're two HORNY chicks in Lyons! UGLY MAN ON CAMPUSIIII SHOULD THIS BE CENSORED? CONTACT X1811 anytime. 2 bdrm Townhome I'm sticking around 'til Sunday and And we NEED you to call us. Ask He'll give you Iovin' like you've had 
TURTLE CREEK can give rides to the for Julie or Cindy, x2B16. before Ill TYPING/WORD PROCESSING Retail security in store. Store Call Pete 1201 airport/train/bus station the SERVICE. 232-3325. detective, experience preferred but weekend after finals for just $5. We're the chicks in Lyons. Who is White Powder Ma? Andrew 
not necessary. Training program. Looking for female summer Call Rene at 277-946B to reserve a PLEEEASE CUM OVER AND SEE Who is White Powder Ma? STUDENTS RUNNING OUT OF Benefits include major medical, life roomates to share Oakhill condo spot. US. Am 401 Lyons, x2B16. Brian TIME? insurance, vacations, available 284-4110 Who is White Powder Ma? 
LASER QUALITY TERM dental plan, available 401 K Moving off campus? SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE Nate PAPERS/REPORTS. QUICK retirement plan and more. Send Furnished Summer Apt Fantastic bar for sale-less than a FOR SALE: Who is White Powder Ma? TURNAROUND. background info. with phone #to 2 Bed. Call273-1747 year old. Also, various furniture Avoid paying high rentals. Buy my Rob MAIL BOXES L.P. Manager, 841 S. Kalamazoo including beds 3 year old, dorm size FRIDGE for Who is White Powder Ma? 277-6245. Street, Paw Paw, Ml 49079. CASTLE POINT 2 bdrm apt-rent for (double and single), couches, only $50 and own it for next year. Tim 
summer 273-1340 tables, desks, bookshelves,etc. Call Scon at X1650. TYPING term A major retail chain is accepting Call 2B8·0597, Lafayette Square SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE ""Wednesday UMOC Results'"• papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick applications for a special security Turtle Creek Aprt for summer. 1. Sean Murdock 1 ,516 votes up & delivery available. 277-5134 position at a local location. This is a won't try and dazzle you with a big Favor Requested and Granted. Why study? 2. J.T. Burke 964 votes Cathy full-time position earning "CHEAPII!III" sign. Oh, I guess I Say this prayer 9 times per day for B Let's pack THE place again Ill 3. John O'Brien 766 votes 
competitive hourly rate. No just did. Chris 273-9355 days...it has never been known to Back ... by popular revoit ...it's 4. Rob Kuennen 358 votes LOST: GOLD HEART WITH experience necessary. Benefits fail. Publication must be promised. TWICE FORGOTIEN 5. Brennan Harvarth 193 votes AUSTRIAN CRYSTAL ON GOLD include major medical, life Turtle Creek Aprt for summer. May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be who? 6. Rob Pas in 1 00 votes CHAIN AROUND ACC. GREAT insurance, vacations, available won't try and dazzle you with a big adored, glorified, loved, and TWICE FORGOTIEN 7. Christopher Chung 55 votes SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. dental plan, available 401 K "CHEAP!!!!!!" sign. Oh, I guess I preserved throughout the world now THURSDAY AT BRIDGET'S B. "Earl" Giblin 50 votes CALL 284-5512. retirement plan, and more. To apply, just did. Chris 273-9355 and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus 9. Mark Manning 47 votes 
please write to: L. P. Manager, 841 pray tor us. St. Jude worker of Ei-Monster 10. Andy Osorno 5 votes 
S.U.F.R OPEN FORUMS S. Kalamazoo Street, Paw Paw, Ml Turtle Creek Aprt for summer. miracles pray for us. St. Jude help Lyons 425 '91. B/30 bash. Tunnel of 11 . Lunchmeat 1 vote 
49079. Include phone #, address, won't try and dazzle you with a big of the hopeless pray for us. Thank love. Excellent! Only 2 days left to vote. BASEBALL FAN NEEDED ... days available for work, and name "CHEAP!IIIII" sign. Oh, I guess I you St. Jude, Sacred Heart, and -Rosie Thurs. 4-7 SMC to buy my ticket lor White Sox vs. of newspaper ad seen in. just did. Chris 273-9355 Mary! -J.S. Fri. 4·6 ND Yankees game this Sunday at the To all ENGL 491 Warriors: All wars new Commiskey (I have a conflict). STUDENTS & GRADS Cruise Ship STUDIO APARTMENTS SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $315 are fought by girls with teddy bears. Sara, This INCLUDES bus transportation Jobs $300 to $900 per week. 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS each way on discounted scheduled Are you flailing in a sea of to and from the park (10:00 Summer or year around. Call 9-5 M­$250. 2B5 airlines to Europe from Chicago. FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY monetary confusion? departure, 6:30 return). I paid $22 F (317) 452-8809 Ext. C4. CALL 28BB595 Call (BOO) 325-2026. CALLING VANESSA 272·9305. but will sacrifice lor $15 or best TARTAR GUN offer. Please help me out here and Third (male) roomate needed for a 'TND' SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER AND with take in some great major league 3-bedroom house next year. Nice TROOP NOTRE DAME PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR WAY PAST TENSE 
FOR SALE 

action! Call Brendan@ #2331. house. Cheap. II you missed us at St Ed's Carnival, HOUSING/ROOMMATE at the 15-min walk from campus. ND PARENTS: THE ANSWER TO there's still time ... "INFORMATION EXCHANGE" Oar House x3234 Bob YOUR STUDENT'S HOUSING See us: Fri. April 26 at FRIDAY NIGHT 
LOST/FOUND COSTS -HOUSE W/2 APTS. An Tostal -3:30 and STUDENTS: go someplace a tad 
Need Roomate GOOD CONDITION, CLOSE TO Latin Expressions Going home for the summer? Need different for a change HELP! HELP' HELP! HELP! Summer; Year ND. LET'S EXPLORE "It's all in the way you groove" a place to stash your stuff? We I LOST MY CROSS ON 3/27 IN $200.00 Mo. POSSIBILITIES. 2B9·B720 (B·3PM) 'TN D' have the place for you! Top Ten Reasons For GYM 1 OF THE ACC. IT IS A Call Lena JOY'S SELF LOCK STORAGE Attending The SILVER CROSS ON A BLACK #3517 'B6 RX7-GXL, mint, very low mi., 272·2400 SENIOR/GRADUATE/ALUMNI ROPE. IT HAS GREAT sun roof, stored, equalizer, loaded. YARD PARTY AT THE SQUARE PICNIC SENTIMENTAL VALUE I A WANTED: Need 1 or 2 (prefer 2) 259-7052. Friday, April 26th SUMMER STORAGE: Best rates REWARD IS OFFERED. IF YOU people to occupy a Turtle Creek Look for ticket sales all week-and facility. Call Store-More Mini­10. It's free. FOUND IT PLEASE CALL: Apt. for summer. More affordable FOR SALE: cups will be distributed upon arrival. Warehouse 654-3636. 9. Food and refreshments are free. 
MIKE AT 1788 than a townhouse. Call Jim or John EVERYTHING MUST GO Lots of beer, music, food and fun. B. A great opportunity for a cheap 
Xtt77. 1 Sofa Don't miss it! II THE NOT-SO-ROYAL date. LOST: 2 Video tapes in the North 1 Window Seat (FI & Gr) SHAKESPEARE COMPANY 7. We're having it after the Bugs Dining Hall. I left them there on 2 Carpets (12x10, 12x13) Presents Bunny/Tweety Hour. Thur. (4-1B) during lunch. Please 1 6 foot ladder MOVING TO CHICAGO at the end 6. Alumni Club presidents and 

FORRENT 

I 
callII NO Questions Asked II 1 small Refrigerator of the summer and I am looking for "THE COMEDY OF ERRORS' officers are looking for a few good Chris Balint 233-5882 GRAD. WEEKEND Call X15B3 a female non-smoker roommate to By William Shakespeare men and women. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY share an apartment in the Lincoln Friday and Saturday, 5. A great opportunity to add to your LOST -BROWN LEATHER 219-291· 7153. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Park/North Side area. Please call April 26 & 27 at 8 p.m. plastic silverware collection. JACKET lost possibly in North Buying a car? Good rates. Call me Gina X4853. IN THEODORE'S 4. It's included In your tuition. Dining Hall. II found, please call An attractive studio in lovely old for a q~ote 9:30-6:00, 2B9-1993. 3. We promise not to throw mud at Sam x3282. mansion near N.D. $300 now Office near campus. They're moist VOTE FOR JOHN O'BRIEN UMOC you. 
renting for summer &fall 91 call They're loud HE'S UGLIER THAN ROB "SWEET 2. You will meet a lot of great people FOUND: A diamond ring near the 2879624 B9 GEO Spectrum They're Bone Forest CHEEKS" PASIN and see a lot of friends. library and Comp/math bldg on April Great Gas Mileage-6-B Friday On the quad 1 . Those plaid pants in your closet 17th. Call 283-4570 to identify. MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our 45/city 50/highway 10-2 Friday, McCormick's '""YARD PARTY"""" have been waiting tor somewhere to 
N.D. alumnae family for the most Still has factory warranty 1-1 :45 Sat., Picnic Friday, April 26th go. Here's a perfect occasion. LOST: attractive, well-maintained excellent buy, call Pat B-9 Sat., Before the Guess Who at Look for cups all weeki 
.......................
Two keys (lor dorm room and mail apartments on Chicago's North 2BB-567B Moose Krause Stadium Saturday, April 27th slot) on Fightin' Irish keychain, side! Hardwd floors, great closet 1 0·2 Sat. Alumni Senior Club. 11:30-1:30 at between SOH and Library, Sunday space, lndry facils., conveniently IRISH PUB NEAR N.D.-3 WAY Join the Boneheads for weepy LONDON SPRING '90. Alumni/Senior Club. night. located to public transp and LIQUOR LICENSE P.O. BOX 1121 hairiness. And pie. Yum yum. THURSDAY APRIL 25 AT 9:00 No sentimental value attatched, just shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. SOUTH BEND, IN 46624 BEACON BOWLING. JOIN US! All students must have a valid a matter of convenience. Reward? We'd love to help you out! OR CALL (219) 277-B526 The Copy Shop student ID and driver's license. Well, if you're cute (and of the SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY LaFortune Student Center VOTE JOHN "HAVE YOU SEEN FEMALE persuasion) I'll give you a FOR RENT FOR RENT is ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS ME IN MY GARFIELD UNDIES" to the Mag ...Aiyssa, WHIZ, Toni, big wet kiss (optional). BIG 4 BEDROOM I 2 BATH HOUSE Plane Tix: SEA TILE to ND in Fall. for 1991-92 employment. O'BRIEN FOR UMOC FOOFY, Jen & Julie Thanks for a Thank you much! John x2331 WITH WET BAR IN BASEMENT. x1152 Stop in and apply today!! I GREAT birthday -You guys are the 
$600 FOR FOUR. IIIIIJUNIORS, JUNIORSIIIII Bestlll Love, #7 ''"''Lost!llll''''''3-4 disks in a blue 10 MONTH LEASE. Macintosh Image Writer II Happy Birthday Joe Roberts. We plastic disk case; one says 'resume CALL 271-0373 Printer For Sale. Less than one love you. SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND junk' on lt. PLEASE return Ill year old. Excellent Condition! DISK TO CAREER AND 
Juniors! Juniors! 

RewardII II Call Mark 273-9058. TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES $300. Call Kathie ••••••••HOGSTOCK****•••• PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE @ 4045. RESUME BOOKS NOW. 
...
Submit copy of 

Lost: 1 pair of pennyloafers at the IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER The weather was too cold on DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 
Resume and disk

Senior Informal at St. Hedwigs. Call 3·4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE B7 Saab 900 Turbo, red, sunroof, Saturday, but don't despair! Jason x1845 NORTH OF ND 2773097 auto, 3-dr, low miles,$11 ,250, Ph The supreme festival of peace, (on monday, April 22) 
1D Career and 

277-BB9B love, and music will take Meri-4 
Placement Services

LOST MONDAY NIGHT ON DEB'S FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN, place on Stepan Field this (on tuesday, April 23) 21 BIRTHDAY: Bracelet---ijold links AIR, PHONE, MICROWAVE, Single Bed for Sale. One Year Old. Saturday. The music will Meri-3 
for Resume Books 

kind of in shape of hearts about UTILITIES PAID, 5 MIN. N. Price is Negotiable. start at 11 am, and there will (on wednesday, April 24) quarter inch wide. Possibly lost in CAMPUS. 272·0615. Please Call 2B05 be a new band each hour. Meri·2(on thursday, April 25) 
now! Deadline 

library computer lab, CJ's, or Watch for posters with times Meri-t 
Friday, May 10 

Commons. (Nice combo, eh?l) 4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. for 91·92 Yr. TALLAHASSEE PLANE TICKET and details! (on friday, April26) PLEASE HELP, sentimental Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. FOR 5113. (1-WAY OR ROUND Hey world check her out!! II value .... REWAADII CALL 1279. TRIP-BACK 5119). B/0. CALL 2B3-****..**HOGSTOCK******** And wish her a Happy Birthday! 
Juniors! Juniors! 

Thanks. House with indiv. Rooms avail. 453B OR LV. MSG. AT 2B3·3991. Dial 284-GENT. 91-92 Yr. Shared Living areas. U.P.S. U.P.S. U.P.S. 
Submit copy of 

FOUND: Key chain with Eiffel Tower Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. 1979 DATSUN 210, $450, BO K On Campus T 
Resume and disk 

on bleachers behind Bookstore. Call MLS. CALL LIZ 271-1B93 Watch for coupons in your dorm! A IIIILIVEIIII 2488 to claim. Summer Rent A At Club 23, Thursday 4/25 
1D Career and 

Studio Apt., Turtle Creek THE COUNTRY HARVESTER T with Less Better Blues. 
Placement Services

FOUND: Single silver earring with Furnished, utilities included. Help! My rents are kicking me out. 239-6714 A Come see the Gun get down black circular inset. Call 2488 to Call AI 273-9583. I'm a lovable, black male kitten, 2 A and get dirty. And always 
for Resume Books 

claim. mo. old, and looking for a good COME TO THE remember, "if we run out 
now! Deadline

Turtle Creek Townhouse home and plenty of food. If you can S.U.F.R. OPEN FORUMS ON G room, we'll pack ya' in the FOUND: ring by LaFortune For Summer Sublease provide this environment, I'm FREEl THURSDAY, APRIL 25, IN LYONS U rear." 
Friday. May 10! 

call4060 Call Jeff at 1615 or 1612 Please call 2B7-5341 . AND FLANNER. N 
_T_hu_rs_da_y._Ap-ril_2s_._19-91-===============~-S_CO__REBO~~A=R~D=----------------------------­
BASEBALL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS BOX SCORES 
ORIOLES 5, WHITE SOX 1
All limes EDT BASEBALL 
AMERICAN LEAGUE American League Eeat Divlalon BOSTON RED SOX-Recalled Daryl Irvine, 
w L I'd (J3 L10 Streak Home Away pitcher, from Pawtucket of the International Boston 8 6 .571 z-7-3 Lost! 6-4 2-2 League. Toronto 9 7 .563 z-5-5 Wont 5-2 4-5 National League Detroit 7 6 .538 112 5-5 Lost 1 4-4 3-2 SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Placed Scott Milwaukee 6 8 .429 2 z-4~ Lost2 3-5 3-3 Garretts, pttcher, on the 15-day disabled list. Cleveland 5 8 .385 2112 Z-4~ Lost 2 1-5 4-3 Recalled Francisco Oliveras, pitcher, from Phoenix New York 5 8 .385 2112 4-6 Wont 3-4 2-4 of the Pacific Coast League. 
Bahimore 5 8 .385 2112 z-4~ Wont 1-3 4-5 Weal Dlvlelon BASKETBALL 
w L I'd (J3 LIO Streak Home Away United Stat.. Baakatbalt Laague Chicago 9 4 .692 z-6-4 Lost! 3-3 6-1 MIAMI TROPICs-Named Eric Dennis coach. California 9 7 .563 1 112 4-6 Wont 4-6 5-1 World Baaketbalf Laague Oakland 9 7 .563 1112 4-6 Lost 1 5-1 4-6 SASKATCHEWAN STORM-Waived Kenny Texas 6 5 .545 2 5-5 Won3 1-4 5-1 Sanders, forward. Seattle 8 7 .533 2 8-2 Lost! 6-3 2-4 Kansas City 7 7 .500 2112 4-6 Won2 4-2 3-5 FOOTBALL Minnesota 5 10 .333 5 2-8 Won! 3-3 2-7 National Football League 
NFL-Named Roger Goodell executive director NATIONAL LEAGUE for club relations and International development; Eeat Dlvlalon Pete Ab"ante league director ollntormatlon; Leslie 
w L I'd (J3 l10 Streak Home Away Hammond AFC director of information; and Jack New York 10 5 .667 z-7-3 Won4 5-2 5-3 Reader assistant director of officiating. Announced Pittsburgh 10 5 .667 7-3 Won5 7-3 3-2 the retirement of Jim Heffernan, director of public St. Louis 9 7 .563 1112 Z-6-4 Lost 1 5-2 4-5 relations. Chicago 8 8 .500 2112 z-5-5 Wont 6-3 2-5 LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Signed Greg Mark, Montreal 5 10 .333 5 3-7 Lost4 3-5 2-5 delensive end. Philadelphia 4 II .267 6 1-9 Lost 3 2,3 2-8 PHOENIX CARDINALS-Signed Eric Swann, Weat Divlelon defensive lineman, to a five-year contract. 
w L I'd (J3 l10 Streak Home Away World League of American Football San Diego 10 6 .625 z-5-5 Lost 1 5-5 5-1 BARCELONA DRAGONS-Signed Jay Gruden, Cincinnati 7 7 .500 2 5-5 Lost! 2-3 5-4 quarterback. Atlanta 6 6 .500 2 Z-6-4 Won3 2-6 4-0 NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY KNIGHTS-Signed San Francisco 7 8 . 467 2112 5-5 Won! 5-4 2-4 Reggie Berry, cornerback . Houston 7 8 .467 2112 z-5-5 Won! 4-2 3-6 SACRAMENTO SURGE-Signed Steve Los Angeles 6 8 .429 3 4-6 Lost2 0-5 6-3 Thompson, linebacker. Released Kubanal 
z-denotes first game was a win. Kaiombo, defensive end. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Wedneaday'a Game• National Hockey Laague AMERICAN LEAGUE HOCKEY 
Tueaday'a Gamea Pittsburgh 7, Montreal3 

Minnesota 7, Oakland 4 NHL-Suspended Steve Chiasson, Detroit Cal~omla 9, Seattle 5 defenseman, for four games eltective at the start of
New York 2, Philadelphia 1 Toronto 6, Boston 1 next season because of a major cross-checking 
Cincinnati 3, Houston 1 Texas 8, Milwaukee 2 St. Louis 4, Chicago 2 penahy whistled against him In an April 12 playoff Detroit at New York, ppd., rain game against St. Louis.
Atlanta 4, Los Angeles 0 Kansas City 4, Cleveland 2, to Innings 
San Diego 7, San Francisco 6 

Bahimore 5, Chicago 1 NHL PLAYOFF RESULTS
Wedneaday'a Game• Thuraday'a Gamea Late Game Not Included Los Angeles 1 1 0-2
,_

Texas (Rogers 0-2) at Milwaukee (Bosio 1-2), 2:35p.m. San Francisco 6, San Diego 1 Edmonton 3 0 Detro" (Petry 0-0) a1 Toronto (Key 3-0), 7:35p.m. 
Pittsburgh 2, Montreal 1 Seattle (Hanson 1-1) at Minnesota (A.Anderson 1-2), 8:05p.m 
New York 7, Philadelphia 3 

St. Louis 1 2­
Chicago 1, St. Louis 0 

Only gannes scheduled Minnesota 3 5 0-8 Houston 1, Cincinnati 0, 13 Innings 
Goalies-51. Louis, Riendeau, 5-6
Atlanta at Los Angeles (n) 

(19 shots-14 saves), Jablonski (10:13 second, 12­9). Minnesota, Casey, 7-2 (36-32). 
s (1)  Tequlla White Ughlning X  (2)  Adworks  
lll.a:iEllSil!!"Hi  
w (16)  Julius and 4 Other...  
E  (8)  .hJS!Chilfin'  E  
E  (9)  ~~EllS 9 S·Jll Peaches Lara Night  F  
T  (5)  Gina's Pizza lll.aliaKS!!§  4 Men Wi1h an Attitude  T  
(12)  Hawk Will Never Die  
1  (4)  Gaudlo's  Malicious Prosecution  1  
6  (13)  ~l2filllSU!1Q Senior Bar  6  
The Observer/Ann-Morie Conrodo  

BALTIMORE  ab  r  h  bl  CHICAGO  ab  r  h  bl  
BAndsn cf Dvraux cf M!ligan tb CRP<enss Evans rf Orsulak ~ Horn dh GDavis dh Gomez 3b Whittc  2 1 4 3 4 5 3 2 4 3  1 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 1  0 1 1 0 1 2 0 1 1 2  0 0 0 1 1 2 0 1 0 0  Rainll6 W Ventura 3b Grbeck pr Fiskdh Snyder rf Thmas 1b Sosa cf Krkvce c Guillen ss Fitcher 2b  4 4 0 4 3 3 3 3 3 3  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0  1 1 0 0 0 2 0 2 1 0  0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  
Bell2b  4  0  1  0  
BRpkn 2b Totalo  0 35  0 5  0 10  0 5  Talala  30  7  
Baltimore  002  200  100  5  
Chicago  000  000  001  1  
DP-Battlmore 2. LOB-Baltimore 11, Chicago 2. 2B-Orsulak ( 1 ).  
HR-GDavis (4). CS-BAnderson (3), Thomas (1).  
IP  H  R  ER  BB  so  
Baltimore  
Ballard W,2-1  8  6  1  1  0  4  
Olson  1  1  0  0  0  1  
Chicago Hough L,0-1 Edwards  3 2-3 3 1-3  5 1  4 1  4 1  5 1  5 1  
Radinsky Drahman  2-3 1-3  2 0  0 0  0 0  0 0  1 0  
Pail  1  2  0  0  0  1  
Ballard pitched to 2 batters in the 9th.  
HBP-by Hough (SAnderson), by Hough (CRipken). WP-Oison.  

Umpires-Home, Tschida; First, Coble; Second, Hickox; Third, Shulock. J-3:08. A-26,121. 
BOOKSTORE RESULTS COLLEGE BASEBALL SCORES 
Bookatore Beaketball XX reeulta from SOUTH Wedneaday, April 24, 111111: Augusta 5, Mercer 2 Barry 1, Eckard 0 Tequila WMe Lightning X del. Shoot or Get Off, 21-Belmont Abbey 5, N.C.-Greensboro 3 8 Brewton Parker 5-0, Georgia Col. 0-2 Adworks del. Cauliflower, Crud, Silk of Magnesia_ Cumberland, Tenn. 9, David Lip&COITil6 
Chief, and Doctor Durrb, 21-14 Davidson 5, N.C. Charlene 4 Malicious Prosecution del. X-Force, 21-15 Jackson St. 3, Nicholls St. 0 Gaucho's del. Common's Club, 21-12 North Carolina 6, Coastal Carolina 3 Gina's Pizza del. No Clue, 21~ Sarntord 8, Ala-Birmingham 4 4 Men W~h an An~ude del. Off-Campus Crime, 21-S.C.-Sparanburg 10, Central Wesleyan 1 
18 SE Louisiana 5-11, Mlu. Valey St. 2-1 Bareback Cowboys del. V's Revenge, 21-16 Tennessee Tech 3, Lincoln Memorial 0 Just Chillin' del. Barking Cliff Chickens, 21-8 Tenn. Wesleyan 9-20, Warren Willen 2-0 Peaches Late Night Ali-Stars del. Apocalypse, 21-Wingate 10-4, Bristol 0-1 
16 MIDWEST McCormick's Coney island del. The Good, the Bad, Illinois 13, Bradley 9 
and the Laundry, 21-12 Indiana 18, St. Francis, Ind. 1 Spidermagnum P.l. del. NO Most Wanted, 21-18 Kenyon vs. Ohio Wesiyn, ppd. rain Hawk Will Never Die del. Sons of Chachi, 21-18 Marlena 6-6, Capital 4-0 Seniol Bar del. Bumblin', Sturrblln', Rumnblin', 21-Michigan 17-11, Michigan St. 4-0 
6 Ohio St. 6, Miami, Ohio 2 Fighllng Kernais II del. I'd Rather Be Skiing.. ., 21-Toledo 8, Defiance 3 
10 SOUTHWEST Bitter del. 4 Jakes and a Lebanese Fatman, 21-18 Harding 10-2, S. Arkansas 2-1 Julius and 4 Oth91'... del. Gooky Train, 21-15 Oklahoma C~y-Oklahoma ppd. rain 
Texas-Arlington-Oklahoma St. ppd. rain 
Oh, My This Jane Isn't Plain! 
s HooSter Lawyers 
4122 LYll 4 00 
w 
E 
E One Last Shot 
Chances are W& can drink you under the Table 
T 
4122 LY11 5'30 
Smooth, Swift & Sweaty 
1 Hoop Earrings 
6 
4122 LY12 5:00 
Four Athi&tes and a Goner 
II there's apain in vour chest, be apain 

t' 
in the neck. Complain to adoctor. 

Dae $ & 4 New Jack Sisters  
Five Women who are scared to death of men In tutus lll.a3LV11 S'Jll  




Chest pain could be a sign of heart 
disease. The sooner you see your doctor, the better your chances for life_ 
ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 


CJ'sPub 
s 

Love w Mom& Dad 
E 
E 
Five Women who won't Date 
The TOP TEN Reasons 
Neil Fitzgerald 

T To Eat at BONNIE DOON'S 
1Q53 Years of ND/SMC students must know a good thing when they "taste" it. EZ4U2NV 1 
9 Have you ever seen a better looking neon sign? 
8 When you're cruising the strip-US 33 North-it's Fast Break 
6 a great place to stop, right by North Village Mall! 
7 It's open when you're hungry-ready to serve you Breakfast, Sandwiches liz Ice Cream: M-TH: 6:30AM-11:00 PM FRI: 6:30AM-12 MID SAT: 7:30 AM-12 MID SUN: 7:30 AM-11:00 PM 
6 To use the Bonnie Doon coupons on page 67 of the ND/SMC Student Directory.
5 You don't have to take your parents with you to be able to afford it. 
4 You can't go anywhere else for a Bonnie Burger. 
3 It'll take at least 20 visits to taste all the great Doon flavors. 
2 Nothing tastes better than a Choco-Mint Soda after a big exam. 
And the NUMBER ONE Reason! (drumroll. ....) ~ 1 TogetaFREEREGULARSUNDAE ~ OR SHAKE (with purchase of lf1ir, :--;;? sundae or shake) just by showing ~llll!!J . us your ND/SMC student ID! 
11JIJIJ1L} 
"My daddy makes the best ice cream!" 


--------------------------------------~----------------------------------· 
Thursday, April 25, 1991 The Observer page 19 


Bobby Cremins remains silent about Irish vacancy 
Falcons continue to have trouble on and off the field 
Holyfield-Foreman fight expected to gross $75 million 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -Tlw clamor of speculation is rising, but Georgia Tech bas­kntball coach Bobby Cremins is kePping his silenee. 
Broadeast reports suggested that Cremins would be named Notnl Dame basketball coach this wenk to replace Digger Phelps, who retired April 15 after 20 seasons. 
Cremins. in Columbia, S.C., for his induction Thursday into the stat11's Athletic Hall of Fame, wouldn't talk about the Notrn Dame job. 
Asked about the Notre Dame job WednP.sday at a reception for him, Cremins said: "This is a private party. I don't have any eomment now." 
ESPN reportnd Tuesday night that Cremins is the lea_Ping 
ATlANTA (AP)-EvenL'l have not gone well for the Atlanta Fakons over tlw past few years -on or on· tho field. 
The Falcons latest problem involves Walter Sutton, the team's 1Oth-round pick in Monday's NFL draft. Turns out Sutton, a wide receiver from Southwest State (Minn.), is a convicted craek dealer. And the Falcons knew it. 
"He saw his wrongdoing and turned himself -and the others who got him involved ­in to the proper authorities," Ken llerock, Falcons vice pres­ident of player personnel, said Wednesday. "That's why the judge let him continue to go to college and why he's been a model citizen through a parole officer program since his arrest. 
"At this time, I think the judge Is the only one who can pass judgment on Walter, and so far it's been favorable. Our understanding and feeling is that there's not going to be any jail term." 
NEW YORK (AP) -The Evander Holyfield-George Foreman fight will gross an estimated $75 million world­wide, record revenues that bode well not only for boxing but also for the pay-per-view television business. 
On Wednesday, TVKO announced figures that repre­sent industry records not only 
··································---·············-················· 


cllice
,011 TEIIIPO .. AIIIII 
-.-..... 
The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. • Chicago •312-372-4500 
The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. • • 
an essential ingredient in your career planning strategy 
• 
Get a great summer job or work during breaks in corporate Chicago. 

• 
Bridge the gap between school and first time career placement. 

• 
Experience the wide variety of corporate environments in Chicago. 

• 
Receive skill development for automated corporate environments. 

• 
Receive career counseling. 

• 
Participate in competitive employee benefit and bonus program. 


for gross revenues but also for viewership. 
With 75 percent of the 1,200 cable systems reporting, TVKO projected total U.S. revenues of about $55 million, based on sales to 1. 5 million or more homes at $35.95 apiece. 
According to figures compiled by industry analyst Paul Kagan, the next highest-grossing event candidate to replace Phelps. Prime Ticket, a Southern California-based cable TV ser­vice, cited unidentified sources in reporting Cremins would be named today. 
But Notre Dame athletic di­rector Dick Rosenthal said the school probably won't name a coaeh this week. 
Two of Phelps' former assis­tants emerged Wednesday as possible replacements. 
John Shumate of Southern Methodist said he has accepted Notre Dame's invitation to dis­cuss the job, The Dallas Morning News reported. 
"Whether I'm offered the job or not offered the job, I'm happy where I am," said Shumate, a former Phelps as­sistant. 
Controversy is nothing new to the Falcons, who hired tough­talking Jerry Glanville to coach the team back to respectability. In his two seasons, the Falcons won just eight games. 
Off the field, there has been tragedy and run-ins with the law involving players and a coach: 
-In 1988, defensive back David Croudip died of a cocaine overdose. 
-In 1989, two Falcons were killed in car crashes -tight end Brad Beckman {in December) and rookie tackle Ralph Norwood a month earlier. 
-In 1990, draft picks Steve Broussard and Mike Pringle were involved in a barroom brawl at college but never charged; linebacker Aundray Bruce was placed on probation for allegedly threatening a pizza deliveryman with a BB gun; interim coach Jim Hanifan was arrested and charged with drunken driving and simple battery for allegedly striking an in pay-per-view history was the Holyfield-Buster Douglas fight last October at $38.6 million. 
The fight was seen in 62 countries, and they should help bring the total to $75 million, Abraham said, of which about $38 million to $40 million goes to the promotion team of TVKO, Bob Arum and Dan Duva. 
TVKO's next show on May 10 
Nebraska's Danny Nee, an­other former assistant under Phelps, has also been men­tioned as a candidate. Nee says Notre Dame hasn't contacted him. 
"All I'm doing is recruiting and working for Nebraska," he said. 
Former Virginia coach Terry Holland, now athletic director at Davidson, has been included as well. 
"If they wanted to talk, I would certainly consider a situ­ation like this," Holland said. 
AI McGuire, a former Marquette coach, says Notre Dame's decision to stay outside a conference hurts the Irish at­tempts to find a new coach. 
"Some of the big names that came up right away, like 
officer. 

And now Sutton, who is from Fort Myers, Fla., the same hometown as Falcons corner­back Deion Sanders. 
Last September, Sutton pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Fort Myers to two counts of conspiracy to possess and distribute more than 50 grams of crack cocaine between 1986 and 1988, federal court records show. 
U.S. District Judge Elizabeth Kovachevich sentenced Sutton in February to nine years in prison, but she allowed him to return to college to get his de­gree in sociology before report­ing to prison on Jan. 28, 1992. 
NFL communications director Greg Aiello said the league did not know about Sutton's con­viction and added that he didn't believe any exceptions were made to allow Sutton to enter the draft. Aiello would not say if the NFL excludes convicted felons from its draft. 
Sutton's Fort Myers lawyer, will feature IBF middleweight champion Michael Nunn and Olympic silver medalist Michael Carbajal in a pair of fights. The summer programs will be de­voted to heavyweights and could provide a challenger for Holyfield should negotiations between Holyfield's promoter, Duva, and Don King fall through for a fight with Mike Cremins and P.J. Carlesirrio (of Seton Hall), have great setups in their conferences," McGuire told the South Bend Tribune. "I mean, why would you want to leave that, although I think Cremins would listen. 
"But Notre Dame is going to have to jump to a conference. They're having problems al­ready, not just with this but with scheduling. And it's going to get worse." 
When Phelps retired, he said he doubted the school could continue as an independent. 
The timing of Phelps' retire­ment was nobody's fault, McGuire said. 
"But the best time to fill a job is just before the Final Four," he said. "Then you can go to the 
Bob Coleman, said the judge's order requires him to stay in school until he graduates, then go to prison. Sutton was re­leased from custody on a $100,000 bond posted by his parents, records show. 
But Sutton's lawyer in Minnesota, Roy Henline, said the player might be able to at­tend the Falcons' training camp this summer, and then finish his college education in the fall. Sutton is scheduled to graduate in November. 
"It is my understanding that if I continue to do the positive things that I have been doing ... they will take into account how I have been progressing," Sutton said Wednesday in an interview with the Independent of Marshall. 
"I can't speak for the judge, but I feel I have changed since then, and the way I have been carrying myself will determine whether I go to prison or not," Sutton said. 
Sutton had been in trouble 
before. In 1987, he was sen­tenced to 18 months probation on state drug possession charges. He said Wednesday that he had learned from his mistakes. 
"I was young, and it was a way to make some fast money," he said. "I never sold it out on the streets. I just took it to a person. I got involved because my girlfriend's brother was a big dealer. I just helped him de­liver it and that led to other things. I left Fort Myers because I knew that wasn't for me. I have never done drugs in my life. "But what I did was wrong, and I can't change that." 
His college football offensive coordinator, Brent Jeffers, said both the Falcons and the league were told of Sutton's conviction and sentencing before the team drafted him. 
"They were never misled," Jeffers said. "He's always been real up front with us about his situation. He's very honest." 
coaches' convention, get all your ducks in a row. 
"But now people have made a commitment to their recruits, to next year." 
McGuire speculated the Irish probably wouldn't consider anyone who offers the slim cre­dentials Phelps brought in 1971 -a single, although successful, season at Fordham with a 26-3 record. 
"I don't think they would take a chance that like, because of Gerry Faust," McGuire said. 
Faust, a former Notre Dame football coach, had no college experience when he came to the Irish from Moeller High School in Cincinnati. He left for Akron after a disappointing five-year tenure. 
Tyson. 
The IBF and WBA have called for a June 11 deadline for King and Duva to come to agreement on terms for a fight since Tyson, the former champion, is the No. 1-ranked contender. If they have not come to terms by then, the fight will go to purse bids. 
Asked about King's suggestion for a winner-take-all fight, Duva said: 
"Evander doesn't want Mike to have to fight that hard and earn nothing." 
Give your heart an extra helping. 
Say no to high-fat foods. 


page 20 The Observer Thursday, April 25, 1991 
Sports Shorts 

Former champ fined for brawl ···.······ ·• 
•sTOCKHOLM, Sweden-Former heavyweight champion Ingemar Johansson was fined $1,200 Wednesday. for his part in a brawl in a restaurant last year. Johansson, 58, told Swedish radio he had a quarrel with a group of people who insisted on discussing boxing with him. "They would qot leave me alone and became obtrusive and I pushed them away,"johansson said. "It isn't funny when things like this happen.hut it can't be helped." Johansson said he niight appeal th(i .fine, The former Swedish fighter, who trained harness racing horses in Pompano Beach, Fla., defeated Floyd Patterson in 1959 to capture the heavyweight title. Patterson took it back the following year. 
.···make adult rnl<talllCe a Boys and he doesn't he said. "Kids had. Kids today had." Knight whatever means could be your time. are doing and what have changed." 

Penn Relays begin as Hytten wins decathlon 
PHILADELPHIA -Even Wednesday to go with his victo­Hytten won three events to beat ries in the shot put and the 100­Mount St. Mary's teammate Rob meter dash Tuesday. Pendergist by 34 points for the Pendergist, who was leading men's decathlon title the event by 48 points after the Wednesday night at the Penn first day, won four events -the Relays. 110-meter hurdles, the javelin, 
Hytten's finished with 7,366 the 1500-meter run and the points after winning the discus long jump. 

The Alumni-Senior Club is currently accepting applications for 
1991-92 DISC JOCKEY 
Pick up applications at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Applications due by Friday, April 26 
lnterhall baseball hurt by nature 
By Brian Dineen Alumni and Dillon each sport­winning an early game 19-0, Sports Writer ing 2-0 records. Alumni's cap­and then upsetting defending tain Jim Blum cites his team's champions Grace 2-1. St. Ed's "The games must go on. rain strong offense as the biggest captain Joe Dailor was 
or shine!" While this phrase fits factor in its success. "Offensive disappointed that a post season Bookstore Basketball well. it output has been our main asset would not be possible. "I, along certainly has not been the case this year. I think that's the key with some of the other coaches, 
for the spring Interhall baseball to success in interhall," Blum think we should play three schedule. Mother Nature's said. games, then have a playoff. We showers have made shambles In the blue division, Flanner would have brought a real good out of the season, leaving A (2-0) holds the slight edge team to the post-season" Dailor nearly 60% of the games un­over Pangborn A (1-0) while the said. Dave Pasquale of Dillon played and forcing cancellation B teams of Alumni and Flanner agrees. "I guess we'll play out of any type of post-season. ·are battling for top spot in the the schedule, see if we can go
"Since most teams have only red division. "We're what I'd 4-0, and) guess we'll just have one or two games in the books call an average team. But being to settle for that. We'd be all as of now. we have no idea who a freshman-oriented team for a playoff, but what can you
deserves to be in a playoff," a we've done what we have to do do?" he said. 
spokesperson for Non-Varsity to win" said Flanner's captainAthletics said. "As far as we can Lou Medeiros. The showdown With a handful of games re­tell there will be no playoff and between the Dawgs and maining tonight and next week, no named champion this year." Gamecocks was scheduled for top spots in many divisions are 
The abbreviated season thus last night but a wet field pre­still-J.Jp for grabs. But as far as far has seen some great action vented play. crowning a 1991 baseball 
with many teams remaining In other divisions, Cavanaugh champion goes, wet fields and undefeated. Among the tightest and Holy Cross both stand at 2-too little time before finals have divisional races is the green di­0 while St. Ed's stands atop the put a damper on NVA's version 
vision, with traditional rivals white division, also at 2-0. After of America's pasttime. 

-
< > 


A multi-media presentation highlighting the Power Marketing of Coca-Cola products through the 80's and into the 90's 
Adworks Lecture Series I 
Featuring: Norm Findley, Vice President-Marketing, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. 
Topics to be discussed include: 
• Introduction of Diet Coke 
• New Coke Introduction 
• Coca-Cola Classic 
• 
Power Marketi;ng at Coca Cola 

• 
Careers in Brand Management, l\1arketing, and Advertising 


Spend an Hour with Norm. 



Tonight • 7:30pm 
Hayes-HealyAuditorium 
Sponsored by Adworks in conjunction with the Notre Dame Marketing Club 

Runnin' Rebels to admit to some NCAA allegations 
lAS VEGAS (AP) -UNLV will those problems." Booke said he attempted to admit to some allegations A Las Vegas television station, interview Perry, but that Perry leveled by the NCAA in a 29-KVBC-TV, quoted sources as would not cooperate in the count complaint charging viola­saying the violations UNLV will probe. tions in the Hunnin' Rebel bas­admit to include setting up a "His attorney advised me that ketball program, the univer­system to give players rides to Richard Perry would not talk to sity's legal counsel said dass and arranging a plan for us," Booke said. Wndn1~sday. players to pay their rent and Booke said he expected UNLV 
Brad Booke said the univer­utilities for off-campus to go before the NCAA's sity does not plan to contest apartments. Committee on Infractions in certain charges in a reply it has The station said the university August or September, with a until June 1 to send to the will also admit to violations in determination by the committee NCAA. setting up tutoring programs sometime in the fall whether 
"(]early there are some alle­for recruits Barry Young and the basketball program will gations in the official inquiry Lloyd Daniels. face sanctions stemming from that are accurate," Hooke said. The NCAA charged UNLV in a the probe. "We tried to look at the facts December complaint with 29 He would not speculate on alleged and investigate them as different violations, many of what penalties, if any. the uni­hnst we could and make an ob­them stemming from the re­versity expects to receive from jective dAtermination if the facts cruitment of Daniels, a former the NCAA. were accurate. In some New York City prep star. "I learned long ago in law instances I find the facts to be school that smart lawyers never accurate." Among the allegations are make prediction," Booke said. 
that convicted points shaver UNLV is already banned from Hooke, who is handling UNLV's Hichard "The Fixer" Perry live television and from appear­msponse to the NCAA charges, acted as an agent for UNLV and ing in the postseason tourna­dnclinnd to say which of the paid Daniels air fare and other ment next season, the result of allegations will not be costs for a trip to the university a settlement of a 13-year effort contested, or to say how serious in 1986. by the NCAA to suspend coach lw viewnd them. Daniels was arrested at a Jerry Tarkanian. 
But hn said steps have al­crack house in February 1987 ready been taken to make sure and never played for UNLV. The current probe has stirred tlw violations don't occur again. Hooke said he has completed speculation that Tarkanian 
"Thny'rn for the most part all but one interview as part of might either be forced out of his problnms that can be solved UNLV's response to the allega­job or leave for an NBA with management systnms," tions and is now in the process coaching position, but Booke said. "Thesn systems of preparing the university's Tarkanian has insisted he plans have bnen put in place to solve formal reply. to stay at UNLV. 
Men's baseball defeats Indiana State in dramatic ninth 
By JIM VOGL They both left without yielding Warn, praying for a double play tor all the way to third. Craig tallied on a bases loaded wild Sports Writer earned runs. to bail out Trisler, put Mee on Counsell promptly drove in the pitch. ISU again called upon But John Trisler, Indiana with the inning's second in­run with a sacrifice fly. Burke to attempt the squeeze
Tlw 20th ranked Notre Dame State's ace reliever, came on in tentional walk. The Sycamores answered in play, but again he failed. baseball team squared off the eighth and later suffered But the strategy backfired, as the next frame in a wacky se­Sinnes, in his last play of the against the 25th ranked Indiana Coss's knockout blow. In that Coss lines the second pitch to quence. Dave Doster's perfectly game, fielded the bunt swiftlyState Sycamores and were inning, Irish power hitter and right, bringing Binkiewicz placed grounder left first base and trapped the runner tryinglocked in a 5-5 tie, before a former tight end Frank Jacobs around from second base with uncovered. Second baseman to score. Mike Coss single won it for the led off with a lumbering infield the game winner. Layson's attempted toss to Walania then yielded an HBI 
Irish with two out in the ninth. single. For Trisler, nicknamed "the Binkiewicz went in the dugout, single to Todd Hobson, followed The victory extended Notre Notre Dame Coach Pat Terminator" for his habit of and Doster took second. Doster by another run off a wild pitchDame's win streak to 13 games. Murphy looked to the bench for putting an end the opponents then committed the Sycamores to bring the Sycamore lead to 5­The results were certainly not more speed, deciding on lrv hopes. it was an unfamiliar first of many base-running 2. 
unusual. but the game itself Smith, a current Irish tight-end, feeling. After being named the blunders, getting thrown out at Once again, the Irish offense was. to pinch run. After a sacrifice Missouri Valley Conference third on a grounder to short. responded when they were After these two heavyweights by Eric Danapilis and an "Pitcher of the Week," the in­Two batters later, the next down, and once again Laysontraded punches in the first four intentional walk to .400 hitter timidating 6-foot-4, 225 pound blunder occurs-a missed was the spark-plug. He singledinnings, Alan Walania relieved Binkiewicz. Murphy called for hurler who Qwned a stingy 1.25 sacrifice squeeze by Stoney with two outs and advanced to Irish starting pitcher David the hit-and-run. EHA along with 22 K's in 21 1/3 Burke. But Burke partially third on a well executed hit and Sinnes, while second-string Cory Mee came up empty, and innings and 11 saves in 17 ap­redeems himself, singling in the run by Counsell. Jacobs catcher Ed Keaffaber relieved Smith was gunned down at pearances, took his first loss of runner at second on the became the beneficiary of yetChuck Smith for the Sycamores. third. Sycamores Coach Bob the season. following pitch. another Sycamore mishap, as Trisler's failure was not the The Irish countered in the his towering fly ball to center 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ only oddity .of the contest. third. Jacobs, Counsell, Binkiewicz and Mee waited pa­
~ HOOSES FOR RENT ~~Notre Dam_e's steady freshman
1'1 
1991-1992 SCHOOL YEfiR 
WRSHERS &DRYERS  INEHPENS I UE  
5 RND 6 BEDROOMS  SECURITY SYSTEMS  
2 HOUSES LEFT  CLOSE TO CRMPUS  

CRLL FL VNN'S RENTRLS 289-6621 
Buy this space and say "CONGRATULATIONSII to someone in the May 17 Graduation Issue of The Observer. 
For more information, call The Observer office at 239-6900 or visit the 3rd Floor of La Fortune 
(Photos will be accepted) 
• 288-0322. 

Capture 
The Beauty 
Of Your Wedding Day 
Shelley R. Way 
COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 

RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
C.ffX}!l/V111/V'J:J $PI/(JJrJU$ 

*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 6.. 
1671 Riverside Drive 
B 
CALL 233-2212 
dropped between three defenders, scoring Layson. 
Danapilis followed by crushing a pitch off the left field wall. While the Irish coaching staff disputed in favor of a home run, the umpires the ruled that the ball stayed in play for a two-RBI triple. 
Ironically, Danapilis, the cleanup hitter who keyed the ninth inning run with a sacri­fice, also earned the victory. The right fielder, who threw three pitches to get the final out in the top of the ninth, raised his record to 1-1. 
While the game had an abundance of comical or con­fusing moments, it also had a few highlights expected of two nationally rated teams. One example, besides Danapilis. Layson, and Coss, was the de­fensive play of Dan Bautch, who graciously toured the spa­cious center-field area at Coveleski Stadium to make sev­eral breathtaking catches. 
Another example was crowd itself, which set a Notre Dame home attendance record (4,027), most of which were admitted free with coupons courtesy of the Teamsters Union of South Bend, most of which stuck around until tlw end. 


lead-off hitter, Greg Layson, 
~ii;s~~edN~~h~~: ~~~~:1~f ~~~ 
Smith's pick-off attempt was errant, allowing Layson to mo­
tiently, taking advantage of Smith's wildness, and scored one without the benefit of a base hit. 
In the fourth, the Sycamores 


~---­
page 22 The Observer Thursday, April 25, 1991 
l 
I SPORlS BRIEFS 
~ 
•Sports 
Briefs are accepted, in writing, at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune during business hours. All briefs must be in before 5:00 to guarantee next day printing. 

•Applications 
are being accepted for Observer sports writing positions. Give your name, campus address and phone number to Dave Dieteman between 8 a.m. and 7 p.m. at the Observer office, third floor of LaFortune. 

•ND 
I SMC Sailing awards dinner will be held Tuesday, April 30 at 


6:45 pm at Lisa Fox's. For more information please call Moira at 283­5224. 
•The 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hold a meeting tonight at 7:00pm in the basement of Pangborn. Call Mark at 283­1606 for more information. 

•The 
AnTostal golf tournament which was cut short by rain will bot be rescheduled. 

•senior 
Kassie M. Misiewicz of South Bend, a St. Joseph High School graduate was awarded the 1991 University of Notre Dame Lifeguard Award for Outstanding Service. 

•sean 
Ryan won the 10 Foot Slam-Dunk competition followed by Kevin Greene and Pat Madden. In the 9-foot, Craig Hentrich beat out Dan Whitehair and 22 others to take home the prize. Chip Malin of Planner and Kevin Sullivan of Stanford tied for dunking on the highest rim, topping out at 11 feet, five inches in the AnTostal Slam-Dunk contest. 


Bookstore hits Sweet 16; Tequila number one seed 
By DAVE McMAHON 
Associate Sports Editor 
About 350 games ago, close to 700 teams started with the dream of journeying to the fi­nals of Bookstore Basketball 
XX. As the intensity level in­creased in visible form Wednesday during Bookstore Basketball XX action, the teams decreased, leaving only the Sweet 16 to vie for the coveted title for the annual rite of spring. 
Top-seeded "Tequila White Lightning X" put on its best show of the tournament, as sophomore Eric Jones, against a man-to-man defense, took control with 12 points in a 21-8 win over "Shoot or Get Off." 
"Eric Jones had one of the best games I've ever seen from a big man," said "Tequila's" Shannon Cullinan. "He's the quickest big guy on campus, and it's great to have Jim Dolan contributing, too." 
Primarily a team that relies on strong inside play from Jones, "Tequila" has been wont to increase the offensive tempo. 
"Although some people don't consider us a running team, we like to turn it up when we can," said Cullinan. 
"Tequila" faces 16th-seed "Julius and 4 Other Guys" in their Sweet 16 opener. 
While Cullinan was surprised at the top ranking due to a few close games in the opening round, he feels that at least one other team has dominated from the outset. 
"We've had some pretty tough games, and 'Adworks' has been nothing short of phenomenal in their games, so we didn't really expect the top spot." 
After taking an 11-10 lead at the beginning of the second half, "Adworks" put on a pres­sure defense that virtually shut down "Cullliflower, Crud, Silk of Magnesia, Chief, and Doctor Dumb" in a 21-14 win. 
Dorsey Levins (seven points) and Derrick Johnson (six} paced ' the All-Stars. 
"Malicious Prosecution" snagged the third seed with an impressive 21-15 victory over Kevin Ellery's "X-Force" squad. 
"Gaucho's", behind the most balanced scoring effort of Wednesday's action, rolled past "Commons Club", 21-12. 
Dave Bose contributed five points, while Pete DiGiovanni, Tom O'Connell, and Rob Vasquez each had four points for the winners. 
"Bose is pretty much carrying us right now," said DiGiovanni. "We play our best when we run, and he's been holding us to­gether when we've had to rely on outside shooting." 

After losing in the Round of 16 last year, "Gaucho's" is hoping for a longer stay this time around. 
"We're pretty excited to be seeded fifth," said Mike Toner. "We expected to make the top ten, but four really came as a surprise." 
Fifth seed "Gina's Pizza" ben­efitted from 12-of-23 shooting from Kyle and Chris Garlitz in rolling to a 21-6 win over "No Clue", which played with only four players for about three­quarters of the game. 
"Gina's", after a trip to the Final 32 last year, expected at least an equal performance in this year's Bookstore tourna­ment. 
"We knew we could do a little bit better this year," said Chris Garlitz. "We've got three guards who shoot well from the outside, but our defense is what really carries us." 
The combination of two con­secutive quality Bookstore tournaments likely played a role in their ranking. 
"We ended up higher than we thought we would," said Garlitz. "We figured we'd be around lOth, so we're pretty happy with our position." 
John Rapchinski poured in seven points and Demetrius DuBose added five as "4 Men With an Attitude" outlasted "Off Campus Crime", 21-18. 
Seeded sixth, "4 Men" are on a mission that they anticipate will last for a few more games. 
"We're not in it to lose," said Rapchinski. "Everything's coming together for us right now. There are a lot of great teams out there, bu I haven't seen anyone that we wouldn't be able to match up against." 
While "4 Men" uses DuBose as their "go to" man, they have played together long enough to know that someone will step forward when the pressure moments come. 
After falling in last year's Round of 64 to "Just Chillin", the nucleus of the team is sat­isfied with their sixth seed, but is by no means content. 
"Bareback Cowboys" rode their way into the seventh seed with a 21-16 win over veterans "V's Revenge". Seniors Stu Healy and Pete Parten pumped out six points each and Corey Lawrence pulled down eight re­bounds, leading the Alumni Hall squad into today's matchup against "McCormick's Coney Island." 
"Bareback" strives for an up­tempo offensive show, comple­mented with a strong perfor­mance on the boards. 
Eighth-seeded "Just Chillin"a Final 8 participant last year, strengthened their defensive game en route to a 21-8 win against "Barking Cliff Chickens". 
"We played well as a team, and our passing was better than it has been," said "Chillin" junior Joe Fulton. 
"Fighting Kernals II", behind eight points from Russ Allegrette and six from Brad Leshnock sailed past "I'd Rather be Skiing ... ", 21-10, to grab the 14th seed. 
"We full court pressed them into a lot of mistakes," said sophomore Pete Tulchinsky. "Today was our best played game of the tournament. Our goal was to make the Sweet 16, and now we hope we can take that a little farther." · 
Raghib 'Rocket' Ismail didn't back up accusation 
When Raghib Ismail launched himself toward Canada over the weekend, he made every effort to make the New England Patriots choke on his exhaust fumes. 
Through his agent, Ed Abram, Ismail accused the Patriots' director of player relations, Joe Mendes, of making a racist remark. The Associated Press reports that Mendes suggested that Ismail lower his asking price in Ken Tysiac preliminary contact talks with 


the ex-Irish superstar. 90-91 Assoc. Sports Editor When Ismail looked away from Mendes, the Patriots' executed allegedly told Ismail that he had the attention span of Tim Worley. Worley, a running back for the Pittsburgh Steelers, is black, as is Ismail. How do the above statements add up to a racist remark? Good question. Perhaps Ismail would like to explain it himself. The fact of the matter is that Worley, in negotiations with the Steelers, held out for a substantial amount of money and has been criticized for being lazy and unproductive. It is possible that the Rocket might have suffered from a an attention deficit similar to Worley's when he found out that nobody in the National Football League was prepared to pay him the type of money commanded by Jeff George and Troy Aikman, the top picks in the past two drafts. If that was the case, Mendes would have been justified in comparing Ismail to Worley. It may have been merely a coincidence that they are both black. After all, approximately 60 percent of the players in the NFL are black. If Ismail is going to accuse Mendes, or anybody, for that matter, of racism, he owes it to them to back it up. In this case it doesn't appear that he did. As for jumping for the big bucks and going to Canada, it appears that Ismail is convinced that money can buy happiness for him. The 26 million dollars he is likely to earn in his contract with the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League will make him a very wealthy man. Maybe it will. If it does, we should all wish him the best of luck. Toronto is a great city, although it may not be the apex of cultural diversity that Ismail believes it is. If he enjoys himself there, that's all that matters. But if he ever had any concern about proving his doubters wrong, the CFL is not the place to do that. All of the critics who say that he will never be an impact player in the NFL will be right if he spends the rest of his career in Canada. If the added financial incentive eliminates Ismail's desire to prove he can play with the best, then the Canadian route is the best one for him. If not, let's hope somebody in the United States welcomes him back to the negotiating table after he saddled one NFL negotiator with an unsubstantiated charge of racism. 
American Red Cross 

Your last chance 



for extra credit 


beforegraduation 
All you have to do is take a field trip to our dealership and show us your student LD., driver's license and proof of a job after graduation. Chances are, you'll be eligible for up to 60 months' financing on any new Nissan~ with no moneydown and no payments for 90 days. 
Now, this extra credit can't improve your grades. But it can. certainlyget you out of school in a huny 
No moneydown. Nopayments for 90 days. 
.....,~~:: 

~ Gee  
15 minutes from campus Call Tom Naquin, N.D. Class of 76 toll free 67~59  2500 W. Lexington Ave. "On the Bypass at 3 points" ELKART  




CAMPUS CROSSWORD 


Shrew People: quick, carnivorous; usually nocturnal beings; smaller but more vicious than the beHer-known Mole People; eat five times their own body weight every day; cannibals. 
~-fAL~ 
~ to.~· 

z~ N Thursday Apri125 ~f· cs....-: ~ 
,;.. \Oi Friday 


~~ 
Saturday • 
April 26 & 27 

Cushing Auditorium 8:00p.m. and 10:30p.m. $2 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 


6 p.m. "Andy Warhol: Artist and Film Maker," video ACROSS 28 Black Hawk was 44Cowboy's 
one buddy
prnsnntalion. Snite Museum -O'Shaughnessy Gallery. t Lieutenants· 
31 A sister of 45 Keynoter, e.g. 
insignia Cordelia 48 Syria's capital 

8 p.m. and 1O::lO p.m. Film, "Say Anything," Cushing 5 Cartoonist Dean 
32 "Poema del 52 Type of inn 
Auditorium. 10 Causerie 
Cid,"e.g. 54 Redolencet4 Father, in 55 High goal 
8 p.m. Saint Mary's -Notm Dame Wind Ensemble con­Arabic 33 Ortolan 
56 "All-," 1931

cnrt. Little Tlwatnr, Moreau Hall, SMC t 5 Aptly named 34 Some 
songauthor ingredients of 57 Slight lead 

8:10p.m. "The Good Woman of Setzuan," Washington t6 One of Hera's 17 Across 
58"-Vere,"
rivals

Hall. Tickets available in advance at LaFortune Box Of­37 Tasso's patron 
book by t7 Dish named for 

fice and at the door. 38 Kin of a hydria 
Couperusits sound while 39 V.P. John--59 Lop the crop cooking Garner

LECTURES 20 Mythical racer 40 Kingsley's "The 
21 Treeless plain DOWN
Sands of-"
Thursday 22 "-corny . . " t Rum cake 41 Malefic23 Evangelist's 2 Be adjacent
2 p.m. "TnltH~ommunications And International Poli­suggestion 42The-­
3 Clothes, in(Friendly

ties, 1H50 -1945," Professor Daniel Headrick of Hoo­24 A friend of 
CalabriaPorthos Islands)

sevelt Uniw~rsity, 114 Pasquerilla Center. History 703 
4 Purify, in a way 27 Dry as dust 43 Star of 7 Down 

and 705 stud1mts arn rnquired to attnnd. 
5Punta-, Chilean port 4 p.m. "I Want To Be a Person: Self, Politics and 6 Tans 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE
Peasant Hevolts in Twentieth-Cnntury Brazil," Janalna 7 Goldwyn film: Amado, Universidade Federal de Goiits, Brazil and the 1934 Johns Hopkins Univ1~rsity. C-1 03 Hesburgh Center for Jn­8 Ph.D.'s cousin 
26AMay
tnrnalional Studies. 9 Circumscribe 
birthstone
to Lace place 27 Fencer's
7:30p.m. "The Futum of Women in the Chun~h." Jane t t Attention 
warning
Chittistnr, OSB Modnrator, Scholar in Hnsidence, Saint -=+:o-1.11-.o.,j t 2 Jewish month 28 Maiden name of
Mary's Collegn. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Spon­t3 "We'll-cup 
Mme. Chiang 
son~d by Thn Committee on Notre Damn's Position on the ..;,r,;~~R~=-1 ...":Burns 
Kai-shek
Ordination of Women. t8 Thin plate 
29 Betel-nuts~~~j·~~ t9 Block of type source
...,!, metalMENU '='t-:'-+..::...t.ii. -~~~~""ffili-...~""'~-'~ 23 Abbot's aide 30 Mason work ~:.:..j.:."+=~~~-=-+=~ 24-and 32 Newman or dangerous Booth -=+:,+;t.+;;~ 25 Pee Wee of 33 Tolerates orNotre Dame Saint Mary's baseball represents 
Grilled Pork Chops Hamburgers Baked Cajun Cod Hot Dogs Pasta Bar Corn Cobbettes 
An Tostal Picnic 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 
It '100~ Cl\1~ C~ll£0 "CM..'J\t•fS ~ OOP£," 11-\t.~ l'M ~t>.~!Oit.IG 1\\£ ~ME Clf TillS CLUB TO '\JiJQBtS \"':. f.. l'o\~'1 
FLEA-Rill~~ ~\JRB~\.l· .' 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 
35 "Old soldiers " 36 Parka's kin 
41 Bond studied here 
42 This is hot stuff 
43 Rubberneck 44 Hymn of joy 
45 Musette 46 Comedian Foxx 47Sick as-­48 Three, in Bonn 49 Estaminet 50 Ike's alma 
mater 51 Rundle 53 Pkg. 




Sports 
page 24 Thursday, April 2'5, 1991 
Men's lacrosse hammers Lake Forest 18-4 on road 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 51-17. Sports Writer "We felt pretty confident go­
ing into the game. We had Win, loss. win, loss, win, loss. scrimmaged them and knew The Notre Dame lacrosse that we should beat them. This 
team continued this familiar game allowed us to do some pattern by bouncing back from preparations for Ohio State and last weekend's home loss to get everyone, especially some of Ohio-Wesleyan with an 18-4 the younger guys, some playing 
trouncing of the Division III time," Corrigan added. 
Lake Forest Foresters on Coach Corrigan was referring Tuesday in Lake Forest, Illinois. to this Saturday's crucial With this victory the Irish matchup at Ohio State. This raised their record to 6-6. game, along with the May 4 
"We played pretty well, and contest at Michigan State, will we did what we needed to do," determine the recipient of the Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. automatic Midwest berth into "Basically, we were a better the NCAA tournament. If Notre team than them." Dame wins both of these 
The Irish attack was ex­games, it should receive its sec­tremely well-balanced, with 13 ond straight NCAA bid. separate players scoring goals. "We are a young team that The charge was led by a couple · has gone through a lot of ad­
of freshmen attackmen, Rob versity. We've lost a lot of key Snyder, who scored two goals players due to injury, but we've and had two assists, and Mark continued to improve through­Hexamer. who netted two goals out the year. I am confident that and added an assist. Junior at­we'll play well [against Ohio tackman Mike Sullivan also State and Michigan State]. I chipped in to the barrage with know we won't beat beat our­two goals and an assist. The selves; someone is going to Irish also outshot the over­have to come out and beat us." . The Observer/Sean Farnan matched Lake Forest squad, Corrigan said. Mike Sullivan, shown here against Loyola (Md.), helped lead the Irish to an 18-4 victory against Lake Forest. 
Men's tennis loses to Badgers 6-3 in final regular match 
By ANTHONY KING tor. the third set by the score of 7-6. Overall, Bayliss did not feel wins over the number 12, 13, Assistant Sports Editor "We can't argue about the DiLucia had two match points, that the Irish played up to their 19, 21, and 22 teams. So if we conditions," said Bayliss. "The but couldn't convert. Chuck capabilities. Poor first services get the chance to play, no one is 
The Notre Dame men's tennis courts are all the same dimen­Coleman, who lost 6-3, 4-6, 7-6, haunted the Irish in singles and going to scare us." team had their opportunities. sions and we both had to play served for the match at 5-4 and doubles play. Bayliss was en­At the least, the Irish had an­
A win against the Wisconsin under the conditions." was up 4-2 in the tiebreaker, couraged by the play of the other great season, and will Badgers would have solidified a The Badgers came out smok­but he too failed to capitalize. number two doubles, stating it have 11 of their top 12 players NCAA tourney spot for the Irish. ing, winning the top four singles the best match of the year for returning. This includes all of But on a rainy day in Madison, matches. This put the Irish in a Two bright spots for the Irish them. the top six singles players. Wisconsin, the Badgers stormed deficit that they would never were Andy Zurcher and Ron Bayliss is excited by this, but out to an early lead and never recover from. Irish star Dave Rosas. Zurcher and Rosas were The Irish are still in the hunt warned the summer months looked back, beating the Irish DiLucia lost a close match to the only winners in the singles, for a NCAA tourney spot, but will determine how good this 6-3. Jack Waite, 6-2, 6-7,7-6. and Zurcher also was victorious they are forced to sit and wait team will be. 
Because of the weather. the "Waite played an inspired and in his doubles match. for the selections of the com­Irish were confined to playing gutty match," commented "Zurcher played very well," mittee. Bayliss feels that their "It depends on what kind of in the Nielson Tennis Center. Bayliss. "He deserves a lot of explained Bayliss. "He was our strength of schedule should commitment we have over the Though the Irish prefer the credit." · best competitor yesterday. help. summer," explained Bayliss. outdoor environment, coach The Irish had their chances Rosas started out sluggishly, but "We've played 26 teams in the "Last year we didn't have that Bob Bayliss quickly pointed out all day, but just couldn't con­pulled himself together and top 25 and nine teams in the commitment. We need to play in that the weather was not a fac-vert. They lost three matches in played solidly." top 10," said Bayliss. "We have the summer more this year." 
Irish softball takes two from MCC rival Butler, 1-0 
By JENNIFER MARTEN his pitching staff. "Our pitchers them. I hope we continue to get tinued the quality Irish pitching reached second base in the Sports Writer did a great job today allowing that kind of pitching," said in the second game which Notre seven inning game. Her record only four hits over two games. Boulac. Dame also won 1-0. Alford gave now stands at 10-4. 
The sun was hot yesterday, They did everything we asked of Sophomore Staci Alford con-up only two hits and no Bulldog "I felt good out there and the but the bats were lukewarm for defense played well." said the Notre Dame softball team. Alford of her victory. The team took two close ones At the start, it looked like the from Midwestern Collegiate Irish offense might be back in Conference rival Butler winning the swing of things with the both 1-0. Irish jumping out to an early 
In the first game, the Irish lead. Alvarez beat out a drib­scored the only run of the game bler to first to lead off the first in the third inning. Senior and moved to second on a Rachel Crosson reached first on throwing error by shortstop an error and senior Kathy Kathy Book. Junior Laurie Vernetti sacrificed her to sec­Sommerlad hit the ball to Mary ond. Sophomore Ronny Dury at third base and Dury Alvarez's single put runners on overthrew first allowing Alvarez the corners for the Irish with to score and putting Sommerlad two outs. Alvarez then stole on first. second giving Notre Dame two Kmak was thrown out at first runners in scoring position. in fielder's choice that moved Crossen scored on sophomore Sommerlad to second. Senior Ruth Kmak's single, but Alvarez Megan Fay struck out and was thrown out at the plate Sommerlad was thrown out trying to score on the play. trying to advance to third on a 
The Irish collected six hits passed ball to end the inning. over the course of the game off Bulldog pitcher Stacey Wilson The Irish threatened again in whose record fell to 8-8. Kmak the second and fourth innings
.. led the team with two hits and with runners on third, but could an RBI. Alvarez also singled not get them across the plate. twice for the Irish. 
The Bulldogs were shut out by "We were hitting the ball well, strong pitching of Missy Linn. but we hit at people and The junior struck out a season weren't scoring runs," said
• high ten batters and walked no Boulac. "We have to hit in one in her seven inning stint on groups now." the mound. Giving up only two hits, Linn boosted her record to The victories moved the Irish 11-10. to 27-19 for the season and 12­
Coach Boulac was happy with 2 against conference teams. 
Amy Folsom takes a swing at the ball yesterday. The Irish took two games from Butler. · 






