
---~----­


~~~~,~~~t

·Q·S·
1142•11192 
. 1!1--­
SESQUICENTENNIAL 
Samt Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME •INDIANA 
VOL. XXIV NO. 33 

WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 9 1991 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ­
Senate postpones its vote on Thomas' nomination 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The in which Thomas requested a remarks to her when she the hearings would not become the weekend. His supporters 
Senate on Tuesday postponed delay to "clear my name" and worked for him a decade ago, a "fishing expedition." initially fought a delay, but re­
its vote on Clarence Thomas' several crucial Democratic said she would cooperate with Biden replied, "Any questions lented when it became clear 
Supreme Court nomination for supporters said they could not the Senate. "I intend to go to about his conduct in terms of there might not be enough sup­
one week to investigate allega­vote for him until the allega­Washington if it is requested," whether or not he harassed this port for confirmation if the Se­
tions he sexually harassed a tions were aired. she said. individual or any other individ­nate voted Tuesday. "It seemed 
former aide. Thomas "totally Senate Republican Leader Thomas, too, pledged to work ual are relevant." to me it was a gamble not worth 
and unequivocally" denied the Bob Dole first called for a Fri­with the committee. Senator The White House swiftly is­taking," Dole said. 
accusation. day vote, then reluctantly John Danforth, a republican sued a statement in support of The decision to delay the vote 
The chairman of the Senate agreed to the week delay pro­from Missouri, said Thomas told Thomas. capped a dramatic and re­
Judiciary Committee pledged posed by Senate Democratic him that "I have to restore what "We will work with the markable day which saw the 
public hearings, possibly as Leader George Mitchell. Dole they have taken from me. I have committee and the full Senate Senate agonizing not only over 
early as Friday. "The nominee predicted Thomas ultimately to appear before the ap­to bring this matter to a vote," how to proceed with the nomi­
has the right to be confronted would be confirmed by a com­propriate forum and clear my the statement said. "Judge nation but also with the larger 
by his accuser," Senator Joseph fortable margin. name." Thomas is an outstanding indi­issue of its sensitivity to the is­
Biden, a democrat from "This is a test for Clarence In an emotional speech, Dan­vidual who has demonstrated sue of sexual harassment. 
Delaware, said in reference to Thomas," Dole said. "It is a test forth complained bitterly that a his honesty and integrity Even as they reluctantly 
Anita Hill, Thomas' former of his character and I believe he confidential FBI report on the throughout his life." agreed to the delay, Republi­
aide. is up to the test." matter had been leaked. He Thomas appeared a sure bet cans vented anger that a pri­
Biden provided an outline for Hill, a law professor who says said Thomas was being cruci­for confirmation until Hill's al­vate committee report on Hill's 
hearings after a day of drama Thomas made repeated lewd fied and sought assurances that legations became public over 
see COURT I page 4 

Career Day will
Burns honors O'Hara as 
offer Arts and
influential ND leader 
Letters students
By ANDY RUNKLE During his tenure, O'Hara 
News Writer brought faculty members from 

career assistance
two sources, doctoral students 
Father John O'Hara, the 12th and European university pro­By GERALDINE HAMILTON 
president of Notre Dame, was a fessors. By 1937, O'Hara's News Writer 
leader in transforming the Uni­"foreign legion" of European 
versity into a premier academic professors was established as a The annual Arts and Letters 
and research institution, ac­vital force in the University's Career Day will provide infor­
cording to Professor Robert research and teaching faculty, mation to Arts and Letters ma­
Burns. according to Burns. jors concerning their employ­
Burns lectured yesterday on Gurian was a key European ment opportunities upon grad­
his paper, "Notre Dame's Odd influence on the faculty. He uation, according to Paul 
Couple," which examines published the periodical "The Reynolds, associate director of 
O'Hara and Professor Walde­Review of Politics," in which the Career and Placement ser­
mar Gurian, both influential many influential thinkers pub­vices. 
figures in the University's de­lished important papers. On Thursday, Oct. 10, there 
velopment during the 1930's. According to Burns, the re­will be representatives from 
cruitment of research-oriented over thirty different careers at 
Under the influence of professors was important to the fair to give students details O'Hara, Notre Dame was O'Hara in his development of about career fields that they transformed into a modern the University. may not previously have been university, primarily as a result O'Hara's other major focus aware of. The representatives of increased research and pub­was the development of Notre will be prepared to answer any lishing. according to Burns. Dame as a premier research in­questions and literature will be 
The faculty size and percent­stitution. He provided finances provided for the students about age of doctorates were in­for the construction of new the various careers, explained creased. During this era, the laboratory facilities and the Reynolds. University changed so that hiring of well-respected re­Reynolds said that all stu­"football ability (was) not the searchers, according to Burns. dents in the college of Arts and sole form of excellence at Notre The physics department began Letters are encouraged to at­Dame," said Burns. nuclear and polymer research tend. 
O'Hara succeeded in bringing during O'Hara's tenure. He said he especially encour­many intellectuals to the Notre O'Hara was dedicated to ages sophomores and juniors to Dame faculty, according to maintaining the Catholic nature come so that they can learn Burns. In 1937 alone, 25 fac­of the University. According to about the vast number of op­ulty appointments were made. Burns, for an hour after lunch, portunities that are available to During the 1930's, the faculty O'Hara would purge the library them. They may get some ideas was increased by 40 percent of books which he thought to prepare them for job inter­and the percentage of the fac­inappropriate. He would then views during their senior year, 
ulty with doctorates also in­send the cover pages to the li­he explained. creased from 18 to 27 percent. brarian, so he could maintain Underclassmen will have the
History professor, Robert Burns, lectures yesterday on his paper "Notre 
The student enrollment was ba­the library files. chance to investigate a wide
Dame's Odd Couple." His research examines Father John O'Hara, the
sically held at 3,000 during this The lecture was sponsored by range of career choices as well.
12th president of NO and Professor Waldemar Gurian, both influential
large faculty increase. the history department. 
figures in the University's development during the 1930's. see CAREER/ page 4 
Yugoslav's warring parties sign new truce: offer hope for new peace 
ZAGREB, Yugoslavia (AP) -"We think we have reached people and caused billions of bian expansionism. Members of Rase-ta expressed hope that Military leaders from secession­an agreement whose prospects dollars in damage. the republic's large ethnic Serb the latest truce would hold ist Croatia and the federal army of working are better than ever Earlier Tuesday, Croatia's minority say their fight is to "because. finally, everybody signed a new cease-fire pact before," said Dirk-Jan van parliament, wary of a repeat of protect themselves from ab­sees that sooner or later we Tuesday night that could offer Houten, chief of the EC mission the attack that destroyed the sorption into an ultranational­must come to an agreement." new hope for peace in the in Zagreb and the agreement's republic's presidential palace ist, anti-Serb Croatian state. But he accused the Croats of republic. co-signer. and blew out windows at the The draft resolution before instigating two attacks after the 
Andrija Raseta. deputy com­The truce statement called for legis.lature Monday, met Tues­Parliament called for Croatia to truce took effect. mander of the army's fifth dis­the lifting of blockades by the day night and voted for Croa­cut all relations with what used Despite cease-fires, up to now, trict, and lmre Agotic, chief of federal navy on Croatia's tia's definitive separation from to be Yugoslavia, abandon Yu­the war has escalated in cycles Croatia's forces, signed the Adriatic coast and by Croat Yugoslavia, Croatian TV re­goslavia's legal system and de­of ever-fiercer battles and agreement at a Zagreb hotel. forces on army barracks in the ported. clare all federal troops an shorter calms, culminating in 
Although it marked the sev­area. Croatia and its neighbor, "army of the aggressor." Monday's strike on the nerve enth attempt at cease-fire in Slovenia, announced their inde­While the shock of Monday's center of Croatia's leadership. three months, the latest accord It asked that fighting cease as pendence on June 25, but rocket attack subsided, the was seen as having a better long as peace talks continue agreed to defer the declaration Croatian capital of Zagreb re­Before Tuesday's indepen­chance because it was signed among Yugoslav leaders and until this week under an EC­mained on edge. dence vote, Zarko Domljan, by army leaders rather than representatives from the 12-na­brokered plan that was to con­Raseta required special ap­speaker of Croatia's parliament, politicians. tion European Community at vene talks on Yugoslavia's fu­proval from Croatian President told deputies there was no point 
Little fighting was reported The Hague in the Netherlands. ture. No such talks have been Franjo Tudjman to leave his in extending a three-month Tuesday, for the first time in Fighting in Croatia since early held. blockaded headquarters to hold on sovereignty that expired more than a week. July has killed at least 600 Croats blame the war on Ser-holds talks with Agotic. at midnight Monday. 

\­

page 2 Wednesday, October 9, 1991
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Where could Father Edgar be hiding? 
Some people are frantically searching for Waldo and others are looking for Dan Quayle. 
Me? I'm looking for Father Edgar. 

I'm sure he has a last name, but I've never Lisa Eaton known what it is probably Managing Editor because I've never needed ------­to until now. Father Edgar and I have always been on a first name basis. 
Father Edgar is the retired priest who has been sitting on the bench outside of the Fa­tima Retreat House on almost every nice day Michiana has had since I came here as a freshman over three years ago. 
Since I am a fairly regular walker of the lake, Father Edgar and I would see each other often during the fall and spring. We would exchange pleasantries about the weather or exams or whatever happened to be on our minds. 
I've never been able to really get a handle on what it is that he does there. On some days, he had a set of binoculars and was watching the ducks. On other days, he had a bible in his hands.· And then there are days when he just seemed to be sitting there doing a lot of nothing in particular. 
Regardless of what it is that he does on that bench, I have always been able to count on seeing him at least once a week during nice weather. Until now. 
Every autumn, as sure as the leaves fall off of the trees, Father Edgar would ask as I was walking by if I was a senior yet. As a freshman, this question, of course, made me absolutely ecstatic. As a sophomore, I had the joy of being able to say to him that I was no longer a freshman. And as a junior, I was able to report that I only had one more year to go. And now, as a senior, I came back to campus eager tell Father Edgar that I was finally a bonafide senior, but Father Edgar is no where to be found. 
I haven't seen Father Edgar sitting on the bench since school began and I am beginning to worry. 
Of course, it could be that this is merely a freak coincidence. I generally have a fairly queer schedule and so it is entirely possible that we have just been missing each other all year, but somehow I doubt it. 
Also, I have spoken with other frequenters of the lake side paths and no one seems to have seen him. 
It just makes me wonder what could be wrong. 
Walking around the lakes just isn't the same without seeing Father Edgar. Every once in a while I'll be coming around the corner by Carroll Hall and I'll see someone sitting on the, no, on his bench. For a brief moment, I have often thought that it could be Father Edgar, only to have my hopes dashed against the rocks when I discover that it is a mere imposter and that once again Father Edgar is not there. Father Edgar must be found. 
And so I am launching a "Where is Father Edgar?" campaign. 
If anyone knows anything about the whereabouts of Father Edgar or why he is no longer sitting on his bench next to the lake, please send me a letter at The Observer. And if Father Edgar is reading this column, where have you been for the past seven weeks? The lakes are not the same without you. 
Today's Staff Production News Kristin Lynch Meredith McCullough Lisa Bourdon Alicia Reale Scoreboard Sports Mike Scrudato Jennifer Marten Illustrations Lab Tech Lisa Schmitt David Lee Accent Viewpoint Paige Smoron Brian Stalter Patrick Moran Guy Loranger Gerry Hamilton Graphics 
Ann Marie Conrado 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
... "'' . 

Forecast for· noon, Wednesday,. October 9
WEATHER REPORT< 
lilleS show nigh temperatures. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

S. Korea reported buying missiles 
• SEOUL, South Korea -The government will lay out $600 million to buy four sets of Patriot missiles from the United States to counter possible Scud missile attacks by North Korea, the newspaper Chosun Ilbo said Tuesday. It quoted an unidentified U.S. weapons dealer as saying the Seoul government agreed to buy the sets -interceptor missiles, launch pads and control systems -by 1993. The report said the Patriot Version Two is an upgraded version of the missile used in the Gulf War. Government officials were not available for comment. The hard-line Communist government in North Korea is believed to have produced more than 100 Scud missiles, the paper quoted its source as saying.The pro-Western South and Communist North Korea are technically still at war because no peace treaty was signed after the 1950-1953 Korean War. 

NATIONAL 

TemHie students cleared of charges 

OF INTEREST 

• 
IBM is holding an information day today from noon to 5:00 p.m. in the Notre Dame room, LaFortune Student Center. IBM will arrange interviews to take place Thursday for openings in Engineering, Programming and Technical Sales. Students should bring four copies of their resume and transcript. 

• 
International students seeking employment will be provided with job search techniques and a summary of pertinent immigration laws affecting domestic employ­ment tonight at 6:30 p.m. It will be held at Career & Placement Services, Conference Room. 

• 
World Peace Action Group will be hosting a pizza party tonight in the esc at 7 p.m. for anyone interested in joining. Members of Amnesty International, Women United for Justice and Peace, Human Tights Coalition, and 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/October 8 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX /\. 

209.78 li .62 S&P COMPOSITE 380.67 .0 1.17 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2.963.77 .0 21.02 
170.00 Million 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD-o $ 1.80 to $360.20/oz. 
SILVER~ 6.3¢ to $4.085oz. 
FORECAST: 
Partly sunny to­day with highs in the lower 70s. 
Mostly cloudy 
and cooler Thursday. Highs in the upper 50s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H L A!hens 77 61 Atlanta 69 41 Be~in 68 48 Boston 62 44 Chicago 75 48 Dallas·Ft.Worth 81 54 Denver 83 49 Detroit 70 39 Honolulu 91 73 Houston 76 52 Indianapolis 72 31 London 61 48 Los Angeles 69 61 Madrid 75 54 Miami Beadl 80 76 Moscow 64 41 New Orleans 73 45 New York 65 44 Paris 64 48 Philadelphia 64 42 Rome 64 59 St. louis 77 51 San Francisco 75 55 Seanle 66 44 South Bend 73 42 Tokyo 68 63 Washington. D.C 65 45 
.. 

Derita, 23, and Raymond Evers, 22, were arrested Sept. 13, the day after the alleged incident·at the off-campus Alpha Phi Delta house. The charges were filed after a 19­year-old student told police that she had been gang­raped by four Temple students and two former students. Even though charges were dropped, Temple University withdrew official recognition of Alpha Phi Delta a few hours after the hearing, meaning the fraternity can't operate on campus. Defense attorney Charles Peruto said the female student had encouraged and invited the sexual activity. 
INDIANA School board makes no change 
• ALEXANDRIA, Ind. -The Alexandria Community School Corp. has ratified a resolution making no change in its policy allowing religious instruction in its schools. A parent had filed a complaint about kindergarteners singing "Jesus Loves Me" in school. According to the resolution passed Monday night, the song was not in violation of federal or state Constitutions. After an investigation, the board decided the teacher was not establishing or promoting religious belief within the context that the song was sung in her classroom.The board recognized the freedoms of speech and religious belief which "form the cornerstone upon which this nation has built the greatest democracy known in the history of civilization." 
Pax Christi are especially welcome, but the meeting is open to anybody interested in building and creating a coalition of peace and justice groups. 
• 
The Medieval Club will be hosting a talk with Father Bill Dohar of the history department today at 7:30p.m. in the basement of Morrissey Hall. The talk is titled "The Black Death and the Church" and it will involve Father Bill's latest research. 

• 
Students United For Respect will hold a general meeting tonight at 7:45 p.m. in the ND Room of LaFortune. All are welcome to attend. 

• 
Enjoy a Chilean Lunch at the Center for Social Concerns, Oct. 10 from 11:30 a.m. -1:30 p.m. Benefits will go to Best Buddies, L'Arche, and Logan. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1855: Joshua Stoddard of Worcester, Mass., received a patent for the first calliope. 

• 
In 1967: Latin American guerrilla leader Che Guevara was executed while attempting to incite revolution in Bolivia. 

• 
In 1983: President Reagan's controversial Interior Secretary, James Watt, resigned. 

• 
In 1989: The official Soviet news agency Tass reported that an unidentified flying object, complete with a trio of tall aliens, had visited a park in the city of Voronezh. 

• 
In 1990: President Bush told a news conference he would be willing to consider higher income tax rates for the wealthy, but later appeared to back off that stand. 





----------~ -----~--------~--------~~----------~----------------------------·--------------------------------------------------­
page 3 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY~ OCT.. 3 

4:38p.m. Notre Dame Security/PoliCe responded to the report of an injured student on the. Burke Golf Course... The victimi who had been struc~Jn tl)e forehead by a· golf ball, was transported by ambulance to the St~ Joseph Medical Center.. 
6:32 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his backpack from the lobby of North Dining HalL 
FRIDAY, OCT. 4 8:10a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police 
responded to a two vehicle accident on 
U.S. 31 ·33. No injuries were reported~ . 
11 :07 a.m. A University empluyee reported she lost ~r B~2 parking.decat 2::54 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of a computer key: board from the Modern aM Classical Languages Lab. e:oa .. p.m. A Notre Dame student accidentally cut his hand with a knife; Notre Dame Security/Pollee responded and transported the victim to th~ Sc Joseph Medical Center.. . 
SATURDAY, OCT. 5 

12:02 a.m; Ari intoxicated . Notre ·Dame student wastransported by ambulance to···su. JosepH Medical Ceryter·•·for 
observation. · · · 
12:04 a.m..Notre Dame SecuritytPOltea cited a Mishawaka residenlfor travelling 44 MPH in a 30 MPH zone unIvY RoacL. The suspeGt was then arrested attw failing a ch(lmical alcohol test · 
3:40 p.m. A DlllonHan resident Injured his knee while playing basketball at the Rockne MemoriaL Notre Dame Security/Police transported the victim to the St Joseph Medical Center. 
11:14 ·p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to the report of an injured student in Zahm Hall. The victim. whO had . fallen, was transported by ambulance to.the SL Joseph Medica! . Center. 
SUNDAY, OCT. 6 

1:55 a.m•. ADillonHallresident repOrted the theft of his bicycle tire and iim trom the hallway in his dorm.. 
2:26 a.m. A Pangborn Ha.ll resident accidentally iniured his hand with a knife, · Notre Dame Secvrity/Police transported · the v4cthn to the SLJoseph MedicaL Center. 12;01 p,m. A Notre Oame stud£mt reported finding harassing notes on his 
car. .,.,.. 
2:17 p~rri> NOtre Dame Security/Police transported an injured studerH from Stepan Field to the St. Joseph Medical Center, 
The Observer 
Settlement reached: Exxon to pay $1 billion 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska {AP) ­A federal judge Tuesday ap­proved a record $1 billion set­tlement and Exxon's guilty pleas to four misdemeanors to end state and federal litigation over the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill. 
U.S. District Judge Russel Holland, who had rejected an earlier settlement offer in March, said he approved the deal because it included more money for restoring Prince William Sound. 
He said Exxon's voluntary ef­forts to pay some civil claims and its cleanup work in the sound during the last three summers were the most impor­tant factors in his decision. 
"Obviously. Exxon Corpora­tion is very large and has been very profitable. But what is now very clear to me is that Exxon has been a good corporate citizen," Holland said. "It is sensitive to its environmental obligations." 
Environmentalists and other critics said the penalties were insufficient to punish the giant company. 
Hundreds of lawsuits filed against Exxon by private indi­viduals still are pending. 
Under the agreement, Exxon and its shipping subsidiary will pay a $900 million civil settle­ment over the next 11 years, as well as $100 million in restitu­tion to be split between the state and federal governments specifically for rehabilitating the waterway. The companies also were sentenced to pay $25 million of a $125 million crimi­nal fine, with the rest forgiven because of its earlier restora­tion efforts. 
Two felony counts were dropped. 
Federal prosecutors said the penalties were the highest ever assessed for environmental damages. 


WILL BE TAKEN IN THE STADIUM 
OCTOBER 13 @ 12:00 NOON FOLLOWING THE PICTURE, 





ALUMNI -SENIOR CLUB 
"The fine says to others in the industry, you can expect fines that are off the chart in response to oil spills that are ofT the chart," Holland said. 
"But it also says to those others in the industry, if you accept and live up to your legal responsibilities as far as cleanup and damage control ... you will get credit for it." 
James Neal, lead attorney for Exxon Shipping Co., said he thought Exxon's attorneys ear­lier had done a bad job in March of portraying the com­pany's environmental record. "This time we did a much bet­ter job," he said. 
"Prince William Sound won, and the trial lawyers lost," Neal told the judge. 
In Juneau, Gov. Walter Hickel praised the judge's action. 
"The judge made us whole again," Hickel said. "He made us one. For the last two and one-half years we have been di­vided, and now we can look forward." 
Hickel said he had a letter delivered to Holland on Tues­day, explaining the state's posi­tion on the settlement. 
A state House Judiciary sub­committee still plans to review the settlement. starting with a hearing Friday, said Terence O'Malley, spokesman for the Democratic-led House majority coalition. 
"They still feel a responsibility to bring to people's attention what the financial effects of the settlement are," O'Malley said. "Obviously it has a little different significance in that it's no longer a proposal. It's a done deal." 
O'Malley said lawmakers still need to address the constitu­tional issues raised by the set­tlement, such as the Legisla­ture's role in appropriating the settlement money and the legal­ity of a dedicated spill restora­tion fund. 
THERE WILL BE FREE FOOD AT 

The Observer/Rachel Belanger 

Who said that? 
Lynn Trefzger and Simon smile as they perform their comic ventriloquist act last night at Theodore's. 

HPC: supports WVFI, discusses Senate, SMC 
By STEVEN KRAUSS 
News Writer 

The Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) approved the WVFI sup­port proposal by a unanimous vote at their meeting Tuesday night. By passing the proposal, HPC gave full support to WVFI in its attempt to gain permis­sion from the Administration to apply for an FM sign~. 
Also, the Switzer-Reinke reso­lution passed Monday in the Senate was brought to the at­tention of the council. The pro­posal, which would allow meet­ings to be cancelled if no new 

Save a tree Recycle this newspaper 

tWitli coforju[ [eaves ana coofer niglits, Who lias ja{[en in Cove, 6ut 'l(atliy and :M~. .91. 11UJod was set by tlie grotto [iglits, :For a proposa{ tfiat was made fast :Fritfay niglit. 
(ongratufationsI ifrom .9lmy, .9Lnn, Carofe, Cfiris, Jayne, Jen, f_](aren, ana ~nee. 
~-~~--------------, 
Wednesday, October 9,1991 
business appears on the agenda, was unanimously ap­proved. The proposal is now an amendment to the Senate's constitution. 
Finally, Adrienne Briggs an­nounced that Saint Mary's plans to turn an infrequently used building into a coffeehouse, in order to provide more on­campus entertainment and to showcase campus talent such as bands and comedians. Briggs, the Saint Mary's repre­sentative to HPC, said that the coffeehouse, as yet unnamed, is tentatively scheduled to open Nov. 1. 



Wednesday, Ocotber 9, 1991 The Observer page 4 

New Haitian justice sworn in 

nominee his opportunity to state his defense in full," Biden said. 
Seven of 13 Democrats who had announced their support for Thomas -Alan Dixon of Illinois, Richard Bryan and Harry Reid of Nevada, Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, J. James Exon of Nebraska, Wyche Fowler of Georgia and Richard Shelby of Alabama ­all called for a delay in the vote. 
If supporters forced a vote, "this senator would be in a po­sition to vote against the nomi­nation," Bryan said. Exon said he would either abstain or vote against Thomas if the vote were held Tuesday. 
Thomas remained out of public view during the day. But Danforth in an effort to stop the loss of support, released a sworn affidavit in which the nominee said, "I totally and PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP)­A Supreme Court justice was sworn in Tuesday to replace President Jean-Bertrand Aris­tide, a little more than a week after the activist priest was de­posed in a military coup. 
Justice Joseph Nerette, the third-ranking member of the 12-judge court, was appointed Monday after soldiers stormed the parliament and forced legis­lators to name an interim pres­ident to keep Aristide from re­turning. 
The 67-year-old Nerette, a longtime jurist and former math teacher, was appointed to the high court in 1988 under a military-controlled government. He has been considered an hon­est, politically neutral judge. 
In his inaugural address, spoken in French as Brig. Gen. Raoul Cedras and other military leaders looked on, Nerette indicated disapproval of the Sept. 30 coup. 
He said parliament had "duly met" and asked him to assume the presidency "after the tragic events which we will never cease to deplore, after the days that threatened national sovereignty." 
He urged churches and politi­cal parties to foster "national reconciliation" and "the restoration of peace and har­mony." 
In an apparent protest, only 68 of the 108 senators and deputies showed up for the cer­emony, and an undermined number refused to sign the res­
olution that named Nerette president. The diplomatic corps also boycotted the ceremony. 
In Washington, the Organiza­tion of American States strongly condemned Nerette's installation and called for a freeze on Haitian assets and a trade embargo, except for hu­manitarian aid. The OAS for­eign ministers also authorized creating a 500-member civilian mission to help restore democ­racy in Haiti. 
The 38-year-old Aristide, speaking in Caracas, Venezuela, where he is a guest in exile, called the appointment of Nerette "a second coup d'etat." 
Soldiers had forced Nerette's election by storming the Leg­islative Palace and roughing up some of the 40 members of a crisis committee trying to de­cide how to fill the power vac­uum left by Aristide's ouster. 
One member of the Chamber of Deputies said lawmakers would have preferred to apply a section of the constitution permitting Aristide 's hand­picked prime minister, Rene Preval, and his Cabinet to run the country during the presi­dent's temporary absence. 
Monday's assault at the Leg­islative Palace and another at the international airport, which disrupted an OAS meeting with Gen. Cedras, the armed forces' commander, seemed to confirm suspicions that Cedras is not fully in control of his forces. 
Many Haitians believe a key figure in Aristide's overthrow was Maj. Michel Francois. 34, who commanded the capital's main police station, where the first clashes between security forces and Aristide supporters broke out. 
After the coup, Francois was promoted to commander of the entire militarized police force, and on Monday legislators handed him the resolution declaring the formation of an interim government. 
Interviewed Tuesday outside the police station, where he was ringed by a dozen police, Fran­cois dismissed the storming of parliament as a "security" op­eration. 
Asked if anyone in the secu­rity forces would favor Aris­tide's return, he said: "No, no, no. That's completely over. That's completely finished." 
Nerette apparently was cho­sen because the Supreme Court president, Andre Cherilus, and vice president, Justin Castel, were never ratified by the Sen­ate. Aristide appointed Cherilus and Castel without consulting the Senate, touching off one of the serious disputes with the legislature that characterized his seven-month rule. 
Legislators and Cedras also accused Aristide of inciting mobs to attack his opponents, a charge he dismissed Tuesday. "Time will demonstrate that it is a fallacy," he said. 
Most H-aitians were unaware of what happened at the Leg­islative Palace on Monday be­cause independent radio sta­tions, the main source of news in Haiti, were either not broad­casting or played only music. 
Court 
continued from page 1 
allegations was leaked to the media. Senator Hank Brown, a republican from Colorado, Ju­diciary Committee member, said he would demand ap­pointment of a special prosecu­tor to investigate unspecified violations of Senate rules. 
Under the agreement reached Tuesday night, the vote on the Thomas nomination was de­layed exactly one week, until 6 
p.m. EDT Oct. 15. 
Mitchell said the delay was "to give time for further inquiry into this matter by the Judiciary Committee." 
"We are going to ventilate this subject to give both Profes­sor Hill the opportunity to make her case in full and give the 
Career 
continued from page 1 
Areas that will be represented include: advertising, hotel /restaurant management, public relations, social services, commercial banking and the retail industry. 
One of the new careers that will be at the fair this year is sports marketing, commented Reynolds. There will be repre­sentatives from the Notre Dame sports program and the South Bend White Sox to talk to students about that particular field. 
According to Reynolds, it is important to note that Art and Letters majors have many skills that employers are looking for in job applicants. Communica­tion, analytical and inter-per­sonal skills are the keys to ef­fective managers, he said. 
Career Day will be held from noon until 4 p.m. in the lower level of the Center for Continu­ing Education. It is sponsored by the career and placement services. 

unequivocally deny Anita Hill's allegations of misconduct of any kind toward her, sexual or otherwise." 
"At all times during the pe­riod she-worked with me, our relationship was strictly pro­fessional," Thomas said. "During that time and subse­quently, the relationship has been wholly cordial." 
Danforth said as he released the affidavit -several hours before calling for the delay ­that there was no reason to postpone the vote because Hill's allegations against Thomas were known by most senators and the public. 
"To keep this alive, is just to keep the torture going. It's time to get this man off the rack," said Danforth, who hired Thomas for his first legal job and brought him to Washington as a Senate aide. 
On the Senate floor, Danforth said the confirmation process had turned into "the worst kind of sleazy political campaign, with no effort spared to assas­sinate the character of Clarence Thomas." 
Danforth also produced tele­phone logs Thomas kept as chairman of the Equal Em­ployment Opportunity Commis­sion indicating that Hill tele­phoned him 11 times during a 3 1/2-year period after she left the agency. She had worked for him earlier at the Education Department. 
The senator also read from an affidavit by Carlton Stewart, a former EEOC official who said he overheard Hill praise Thomas' nomination at last August's American Bar Associ­ation convention in Atlanta. 
On the Senate floor, Orrin Hatch, a republican from Utah, recited the list of Hill's tele­phone calls and asked, "Does this sound like a victim speak­ing to her harasser?" 
Among the log notations was the message, "Just called to say hello. Sorry she didn't get to see you last week." A Jan. 2, 1985, message "please call tonight" left the phone number of Washington's Embassy Row Hotel and her room number. 
One Republican supporter of Thomas, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, said, "I think the Senate itself is on trial, the best course of action is to bring in Judge Thomas, bring in Ms. Hill tomorrow and vote on Thursday." 
But Biden said he favored a longer delay to allow the FBI to conduct a more thorough inves­tigation before the Judiciary Committee held hearings on the allegation. Asked how long that would take, Biden said: "I haven't the slightest notion." 

THE DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH PRESENTS 
THE .ANNUAL LECTURES ON PHILOSOPHY AND LITERATURE 
LANGUAGE AND INTERPRETATION IN ANTIQUI1Y
DONALD G. MARSHALL 
HEAD, DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS, CHICAGO 
WEDNESDAY, 
OCTOBER 9. 1991 
4:15P.M. 

PHILOSOPHYAS 
OPPOSED TO WHAT? WAYS OF TALKING IN PLATO'S PHAEDRUS 
THURSDAY, 
OCTOBER 10. 1991 
4:15P.M. 

MAKING LETTERS SPEAK: RHETORIC AND INTERPRETATION IN AUGUSTINE'S DE DOCTRINA CHRISTIANA 
FRIDAY, 

OCTOBER 11. 1991 
4:15P.M. 

POLITICS AND LANGUAGE: FROM ARISTOTLE ON TRAGEDY TO DANTE ON ELOQUENCE IN THE VERNACULAR 
ALL LICTURI$ WILL 8E HELD IN THE MO.ROOM, LA FORTUNE STUDENT CEHTIER 

--·---­

------------------------------------------------------·------~~--------~----------------­

page 5 
Stanford doctor leaves behind three widows 


Ca~el.ites in our Province of the Most Pure Heart of Maty, consisting of 285 priests and 30 Brothers, have always responded to the needs of the Church in varied ministries; throughout the United States as well as Ontario and Quebec, Canada and Rome. Our missionaries serve in Lima and Sicuani, Peru. 
-CONTACT-
Rev. Peter McGarry, 0. Carm., Vocation Director 
1313 Frontage Road 

Darien, Illinois 60559-5341 (708) 852-4536 
Make Your Social Life SMC More Fun... and Safer·· 
Tonight

Pane 1 Discussion ·With Representatives from: 
MONTY PYTHON·s
-Student Government 
-RHA t1EANIN6 OFLIFt 
-Resident Life \~\ \ -counse1in g ~\\\:J' , · 
Carroll Auditorium
303 Haggar \ ()\~ Admission $1 7p.m. sponsored by SAB 
The Observer 

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Heavily armed police patrolled black town­ships today after gun battles that claimed 18 lives and prompted Nelson Mandela and President F.W. de Klerk to ac­cuse each other of inciting vio­lence. 
The fighting Monday in Tokoza and other townships left a dozen people wounded and was the worst political violence since the government and black groups signed a peace pact on Sept. 14. 
Mandela, the African Na­tiona! Congress president, ac­cused Klerk of doing nothing to halt the killing of blacks in the townships and repeated charges that government secu­rity forces were behind the vio­lence. 
"De Klerk has let loose his hounds against the people. If he does not want the violence, why do the police act with such im­punity?" Mandela told a rally late Monday. 
De Klerk launched a bitter attack on the ANC, saying it was trying to seize power by destabilizing South Africa. 
"Trying to take the country by storm will lead to a dead end street. We are neither im­pressed nor intimidated by their aggressive demands," de Klerk told a rally late Monday of his ruling National Party. 
It was the bitterest exchange between the country's two top political leaders in recent months. The government and the ANC are preparing for talks on a new constitution. 
The fighting Monday flared in Tokoza during the funeral of ANC activist Sam Ntuli, who was gunned down in the town­ship late last month. 
The security forces had antic­ipated trouble. Armored mili­tary vehicles and scores of sol­diers and police patrolled the streets and tried to keep apart the heavily armed factions in Tokoza, a township repeatedly wracked by violence. 
VVednesday.~ober9, 1991 
However, skirmishes broke out as about 15,000 people headed home from a stadium where the funeral service was held. Many of the ANC support­ers who attended the ceremony carried guns, knives, spears and clubs. 
Police blamed most of the deaths on unidentified gunmen who drove around Tokoza in vans, firing on people as they headed home from the funeral. 
There was no evidence linking the killers to any organization. 
Most ANC supporters in the township are Xhosas, and they have been fighting since last year with Zulus who live in a migrant workers hostel. The Zulus support the lnkatha Freedom Party, the ANC's main rival. . 
Inkatha members were am­bushed as they marched through Tokoza on Sept. 8, leaving 23 dead and touching off a wave of killings in town­ships around Johannesburg. 
Black and white leaders hailed the Sept. 14 peace agreement as an important breakthrough. But many blacks in the impoverished townships say conditions have not changed and they expect con­tinued fighting. 
STANFORD, Calif. (AP) -Dr. 

Norman Lewiston's Stanford 
University Medical Center col­
leagues believed his work was 
his whole life. That is, until his 
death, when three widows 
came forward to mourn their 
loving husband. 
"I don't know where he found 

the time," said Diarmuid 
McGuire, a spokesman for the 
Lucile Salter Packard Children's 
Hospital, where Lewiston 
worked when he wasn't teach­
ing pediatrics. "When I say he 
was dedicated to his work, I 
mean it was the focus of his 
life." 
Lewiston, shy and unassum­ing, was able to juggle three homes and three wives -two in the San Francisco Bay area and one in Southern California -apparently because each woman thought he was so busy with his work that he frequently had to be away from home. 
He headed the Cystic Fibrosis Clinic at the hospital and often lectured and traveled. 
"I can't figure out why -or how -he did it," said one of the wives, Robyn Phelps, 42, of La Mesa, a suburb of San Diego. "I truly believe he loved all three of us but was incapable of letting go of any of the relationships." 
Along with three widows, the respected lung transplant spe­cialist also left behind questions about his handling of hospital research funds. 
Auditors have found a private bank account Lewiston set up for research expenses and at least one check written to an ex-wife. But so far they have been unable to prove any wrongdoing. 
"So far, everything looks like it was handled aboveboard, but when you have a case like this there's reason to be suspi­cious," McGuire said. 
Phelps said that when Lewis­ton wasn't staying at their Southern California home, the doctor told her he was staying over at the hospital. 


Another wife, Katy Mayer 
Lewiston of Los Altos, said her 
husband told her he frequently 
went to the San Diego area to 
visit doctor friends. 
The third wife, Diane 
Brownell Lewiston of Palo Alto, 
has refused to discuss her late 
husband. 
Phelps finally caught on to the 52-year-old doctor just before he died of a heart attack Aug. 6. "In May or June she started smelling around the woodpile after she became suspicious," said Phelps' lawyer, E. Gregory Alford. 
The other wives found out 
when they went to claim Lewis­
ton's body. 
"I was shocked," Katy Lewis­ton said Tuesday. "I loved him very much and I thought he was a wonderful man." 
The 44-year-old woman was Lewiston's "public wife," ac­companying him to medical school functions. She married him in 1985, believing he was divorced. 
But he had married Diane Lewiston in 1960. The 52-year­old Palo Alto woman, who bore Lewiston three children, was listed as sole beneficiary in his will, according to her attorney, Kingsford Jones. 
As executor of the doctor's estate, Diane Lewiston has moved to acquire a 50 percent interest in the home he owned with Katy Lewiston. 
"She's not prepared to answer any specific questions about their relationship," Jones said, acknowledging that Diane Lewiston apparently didn't know of the other wives. 
Phelps, who married Lewiston in 1989, said she has no claims to the doctor's estate. She set­tled with Lewiston for a small amount as part of an annul­ment procedure worked out a week before he died, her attor­ney said. 
"The only thing I want to in­herit is his frequent-flier miles," Phelps told The San Diego Union in an interview. 
CARMELITES 
ACTIVE AND 
CONTEMPLATIVE MEN 
CALLED TO BRING GOD'S 
LOVE INTO THE WORLD 
Wednesday, October 9, 1991 The Observer page 6 

The Observermm Farish 
It's a daily double 

Sorin Screamin' Otters get intense when it comes to watching Jeopardy yesterday afternoon. 
Senate approves aid for Baltic republics 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate on Tuesday approved a two-year, $25 billion foreign aid bill that would for the first time authorize direct U.S. help to the Soviet Union's three breakaway Baltic republics. 
But the measure, approved on a 61-38 vote and expected to be passed by the House on Wednesday, was headed for a certain White House veto be­cause of two provisions that would overturn seven years of Republican population control policy. 
The bill would allow up to $830 million over the next two years in new U.S. aid to Eastern Europe, and would expand the list of eligible countries to include Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. No less than $15 mil­lion would be directed to those three republics. 
Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Al­bania and Romania also would become eligible for unspecified amounts of aid, along with Yu­goslavia if the president certi­fies that nation is moving to­ward democracy, human rights and a market economy. 

But the Bush administration has made it clear the bill is ob­jectionable because it would overturn the so-called "Mexico City policy," which bars U.S. aid to international population agencies that counsel abortion as a family planning option. 
The White House also objects to the $20 million the bill would provide for the United Nations Population Fund, the world's largest family planning agency. The administration objects be­cause the agency operates pro­grams in China, which has practiced coercive abortion and sterilization. 
The administration also op­poses two other provisions in the bill, one requiring U.S. aid recipients to use 15 percent of the money to buy U.S. goods and services in fiscal 1993, in­creasing to 7 5 per~ent in fiscal 1996. Half the goods would have to be shipped in more ex­pensive U.S.-flag vessels. 
Also objectionable to the White House is a section that would eliminate authority to make military aid loans, instead requiring that all aid be given in the form of grants. That provision, pushed by Senator Paul Sarbanes, a democrat from Maryland, would most benefit Greece, which gets part of its $350 million a year in loans. 
Senator Mitch McConnell, a republican from Kentucky and member of the Foreign Rela­tions Committee, said he hoped "at some point to get the objec­tionable features out" of the bill and produce a version ac­ceptable to the White House. 
The measure authorizes the usual array of aid to U.S. friends and allies around the world. The largest aid recipient is Israel, at $3 billion, the same level as for the past several years. Egypt continues to get $2.1 billion. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

SUMMER ENGINEERING FOREIGN STUDY 
•
ID 

LONDON,ENGLAND 
.INFORMATION MEETING:. Wednesday, October 9, 1991 

) 
Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00p.m. 

ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 

. . 
Iraqi scientists working on bombs, reports IAEA 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Iraqi nuclear scientists were working on a hydrogen bomb as well as an atom bomb, the director of the International Atomic Energy Agency said Tuesday. 
Hans Blix and one of his chief inspectors, David Kay, said the Iraqis had produced lithium-6, a material used only in hydro­gen weapons. 
Kay, the leader of the nuclear inspection team that was barri­caded in a Baghdad parking lot for five days last month when it refused to give up documents, said documents showed the Iraqis intended to manufacture about 220 pounds of lithium-6 each year. 
Neither man would disclose in a news conference at the United Nations how much lithium-6 is needed to produce a working thermonuclear weapon. 
The lithium was the latest shocking discovery about the extent of Iraq's nuclear pro­gram, little of which had been revealed by Iraq despite its obligation to do-so under the Security Council's April 3 cease­fire resolution. 
U.N. officials also reported that Iraq had been as little as 15 months from coming up with a working atom bomb that could have been delivered by missile. 
On Tuesday, Iraqi workers used torches to dismember two "super guns" that Baghdad could have used to attack neighboring capitals, U.N. of­ficials said. U.N. inspectors watched as Iraqi workers used oxyacetylene torches to cut slits into one gun barrel. 
The Iraqis planned to build five "super guns," said Derek Boothby, an official with the 
U.N. Special Commission in charge of destroying Iraq's weapons as provided in the Gulf War cease-fire resolution. 
Blix and Kay said IAEA translators and atomic experts were still reading the tens of thousands of pages that Kay's team seized Sept. 23 and 24 at an atomic records repository in Baghdad and at the Iraqi Atomic Energy Commission. 
Intelligence satellites and other sources provided the agency with information on which sites would be worthy of a search, Blix said. 
IAEA officials said last month that one of the key sources of information was an Iraqi scien­tist who defected earlier in the year and shared details of Iraq's nuclear program with a Western intelligence agency. 
Personnel records show that Iraqi nuclear scientists were educated and trained in the United States, Britain, France, Poland and West Germany, Blix said. 
Documents Kay's team seized also showed that many coun­tries and companies had pro­vided Iraq with technology and training for its nuclear pro­gram, he added. 
He said most but not all of the supplies were dual-use ma­terials that did not necessarily indicate the vendor knew it was helping Iraq's secret nuclear program. 
Blix said he favors releasing the names of suppliers that knowingly helped Saddam Hus­sein's nuclear program, but wanted to be careful. 
Kay said the Iraqis had failed to return 45,000 pages of sen­sitive documents that the team seized on its first raid on Sept. 23, but lost when Iraqis guards forced them to release the ma­terial. 
When the documents were re­turned to the inspectors, Kay said, many of the most sensitive volumes·-identified by a red spine on the binder -were missing. 
However, "We had pho­tographed the cover pages of the documents," Kay said, and the IAEA is preparing a roster of the missing documents.· 
These documents mostly con­tain progress reports on the Iraqi nuclear weapons pro­gram, he said. 
Blix and Kay spoke to re­porters after briefing the Secu­rity Council's sanctions com­mittee. 
Diplomats said the nuclear experts told the committee that Iraq was 15-24 months away from producing a working atomic device, depending mainly on the rate at which Iraq could enrich uranium. 
A report they filed to the council said Saddam planned to design and produce a nuclear bomb at a research center about 40 miles south of Bagh­dad that was only lightly bombed during the Persian Gulf war. 

Western intelligence agencies failed before the war to deter­mine the significance of the AI Atheer center. 
page 7 The Observer 
Plant workers claim foul play 
line Breve~ 34, a~~~or~m~er~c~h~em~---~co~n~d~o~n~e-h~a~ra~s~s~m~e~n~t-o~f~a~n~y---w~e~r~e~t~ol~d~t:h~e~y-w~e~r~e~m::is~si-·n~g~·----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J:~~:;~~~ff~~ 

WESTMINSTER, Colo. (AP) ­Two workers at the Rocky Flats nuclear weapons plant say their homes were shot at and they were forced to quit because they talked to the FBI about on­the-job health and safety problems. 
One of the women said she was deliberately contaminated with radioactive waste because of her campaign to clean up safety problems at the plant. She said a co-worker told her: '"That's what you get for mak­ing waves.'" 
Plant operator EG&G Inc. said Tuesday it is investigating the women's complaints. 
The two women said Monday they plan to file a lawsuit soon against" those responsible, in­cluding Rockwell International and EG&G Inc., the contractors that operated Rocky Flats for the Department of Energy while the women worked there. EG&G has operated the plant since January 1990. 
"For years, these women did the most hazardous work in the nuclear weapons industry, hands-on processing of deadly plutonium in the underground cells of the 'hot side' of Rocky Flats," said Hartley Alley, their attorney. "They were unsung heroes. Now, they are victims of sabotage, intentional exposure to excessive radiation, attacks upon their homes, and more." 
"The message I think they're trying to send to their employ­ees is 'Shut up,"' said Jacque­ical operator for plutonium op­erations at the plant. 
Karen Pitts, 35, who worked with Brever, says their case is similar to that of Karen Silk­wood. The Oklahoma nuclear­plant worker was harassed and died mysteriously while trying to prove her company was cov­ering up unsafe operating pro­cedures in handling nuclear materials. 
"Karen Silkwood got into trouble when she tried to report problems to her supervisors," Pitts said. 
The women said they were forced to resign in April 1991 after supervisors ordered them to return to their jobs in ra­dioactive areas of the plant. An assistant U.S. attorney wrote a letter asking that they not be sent there because of threats made against them. Both had worked at the plant seven years. 
Plant officials admitted in August that the women were harassed, but said there is nothing they can do now to help them. 
"I would say they've been ha­rassed," Robert Nelson, in charge of DOE operations at the plant, said after he interviewed the women. "I mean, certainly if I were in their shoes, and all those things happened to me, I'd be pretty upset." 
EG&G said the company is aware of the women's allega­tions. "EG&G will not permit or 
type in the workplace. More­over, in general. we continue to encourage employees with safety concerns to come for­ward through our Joint Com­pany-Union Safety Committee," an EG&G statement said. 
Pitts said she and Brever got no help from the union at Rocky Flats, because union officials feared an investigation could result in lost jobs. 
Officials of United Steelwork­ers of America Local 8031 did not return calls from The Asso­ciated Press seeking a response. 
Rocky Flats is the only U.S. plant that makes the cores for atomic bombs. 
The government suspended the plant's plutonium opera­tions in December 1989 ·follow­ing repeated safety violations and problems. The plant also was the target of a June 6, 1989, FBI raid, and a grand jury is investigating allegations of illegal disposal of hazardous and toxic wastes. 
About the time of the raid, Pitts said, plant officials launched a campaign against her and Brever. The plant was then under Rockwell's supervi­sion. 
The women said they had heard allegations of illegal burning of radioactive wastes in an incinerator in a building in which they worked, and they grew suspicious. They said when they asJ<,:ed to see their 
own records, which account for radioactive materials that they have had contact with, they 
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES 
Invite The UNIVERSITY OF N01RE DAME students to attend a presentation on career opportunities 
Wednesday, October 9, 1991 7:00p.m. Upper Lounge of the University Club 
Featuring Tom Helfrich, ND '72 
Senior Vice President, Corporate Human Resources 
Recent Notre Dame Alumni and Interns will also be available to talk about their experiences at The Travelers. 
All majors encouraged to attend. 
Refreshments will be served. 
FALL INTERVIEW DATES: 
ACCENT (lnfonnation Systems Management) ACTUARIAL ITMP 
(Telecommunications) 
FMDP (Financial Management) MCEBO ASSOCIATES 
(Managed Care and Employee Benefits) 
November 12-13, 1991 
November 12, 1991 November 12, 1991 November 12, 1991 November 12, 1991 
/ 

TheTraveler$J' 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Wednesday, October 9,1991 
Lights, camera, action! The Observermm Farish Senior Nate Fitzgerald (left) helps Ted Mandell with his video project outside of O'Shaugnessy yesterday. These two took advantage of a beautiful fall day to enhance the film. 
Indianapolis 
chosen as express mail sorting hub 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Indi­anapolis was selected Tuesday as the permanent site for U.S. Postal Service express mail sorting hub. 
The city's selection for the $62 million hub means it will keep the 470 jobs already han­dling express mail sorting here for Emery Worldwide on a con­tract basis for the Postal Ser­vice. 
The new Eagle Air hub will employ up to 700 people when it is fully operational and will process all of the Postal Ser­vice's express and priority mail, officials said. 
The hub will have an esti­mated annual economic impact of $800 million on central Indi­ana, said spokesmen for Sens. Richard Lugar and Dan Coats, both republi~ans from Indiana, whose offices announced the Postal Service decision. 
Indianapolis was chosen over the Indiana communities of Terre Haute and Fort Wayne; the Ohio cities of Dayton, Toledo and Columbus; and Peo­ria, Ill. As many as 30 cities in five Midwestern states vied for the operation at one time. 
Formal announcement of the selection was made at a meet­ing in New York of the Postal Service Board of Governors. 
The -83-acre hub will include a 273,000-square-foot building for the transfer of mail con­tainers from one airplane to another, as well as other sup­port buildings and space for aircraft parking and taxiing. The land will be leased from the airport and the buildings will be owned by the Postal Service. 

~· 
·~ 
~ 
If
:i
I . 
. H 
((I, 
il\ 
11: 
t
~ ~. '· i: 
·I! 
t ... 
'li 
. ' 
::: 
: ~ 
j .~ 
t ( 
/i 
~: 
r· 
r: 
1'.'·' 
j I" 
{' 

--------~~--~----~--~--------------------..--~.---~----~----~-------~------~----------------------------------------~-­
page 9 The Observer 
Foley cracks down on policy for parking tickets 
WASHINGTON (AP) Speaker Thomas Foley yester­day ordered House officials to stop helping members reverse city parking tickets, as special privileges for lawmakers con­tinue to disappear at a rapid pace. 
The policy won't end dis­missal of parking tickets issued to members of Congress be­cause a city ordinance allows them to park almost anywhere when they are on "official busi­ness." 
But Foley's action will force a member who receives a ticket -whether at noon outside an office building or at 3 a.m. in front of a night spot -to per­sonally make the case that he or she was on House business. The sergeant-at-arms had been handling the job. 
It was the latest action taken by the House to do away with privileges that had been abused by some members. 
The House voted 390-8 last Thursday to close the members' bank by the end of the year and have the ethics committee in­vestigate the hank's policy of 
'G 

covering members' bad checks without penalty. 
On Tuesday, Representative Louis Stokes. an Ohio democrat. chairman of the ethics committee, said he wouldn't take part in the investigation because he wrote checks with insufficient funds in his House bank account. 
Stokes, who revealed the defi­ciencies last week. said he hadn't violated House rules but told Foley it was important "to avert any appearance of im­propriety." Representative Matthew McHugh, a democrat from N.Y., was expected to be placed in charge of the probe. 
The House restaurant system also has begun a pay-as-you-eat program for members and groups they sponsor to prevent large delinquent tabs such as those accumulated by some 300 current and former members and their sponsored organiza­tions. 
Foley, announcing the ticket policy at his daily news confer­ence, said: "We're not interme­diating in any of these cases of dispute. I thought it was ap­propriate that the House and Senate have the same practice." 
The Senate eliminated its in­
tervention in January. 
A former high-ranking Dis­
trict of Columbia official, who 
coordinated the ticket-adjusting 
process at City Hall, estimated 
he handled between 20 and 40 
requests each month for 
members of Congress during 
most of the 1980s. 
City parking tickets were val­
ued at a minimum of $10 when 
the official handled them during 
the last decade, but the lowest 
amount now is $20 per 
infraction. 
However, many members 
missed the 15-day payment 
deadline, causing the amount of 
the tickets to double by the time 
they reached City Hall, said the 
former official, speaking on 
condition of anonymity. 
Under the old practice, House members notified Sergeant-at­Arms Jack Russ whenever they received a parking ticket. Russ ·would request district officials to eliminate the ticket under a 
local ordinance. 
The city statute was passed by 
Congress in 1956, before 
Washington had home rule. The 
law allows members on "official 
business" to park almost 
anywhere they please in Washington, except in front of a firehouse or hydrant, in a rush­hour zone or a loading zone. They must display special license plates. 
"What we're changing is that rather than handling these matters for members when they complain that their cars have been improperly ticketed, we're going to leave that up to them," Foley said. "They're going to have to contact the (city) cor­poration council's office or go to court and dispute the ticket themselves or pay the citation. whatever's appropriate." 
Members, Foley said, aren't covered under the law when on private business. 
The General Accounting Of­fice, a congressional watchdog agency, reported last month that House members wrote 8,331 bad checks without penalty during a one-year pe­riod ending June 1990. 
Even after the bank instituted a stiffer policy midway through that period in an effort to curb the abuses, 134 members wrote 581 bad checks of $1,000 or more in the succeeding six months, the GAO reported. 

R A D U A T I N G M I S I C A P P S E N I 0 R S 
Put Yourself In The Picture 
ReceptionWednesday, November 13 5pm-7pmDooley Room, Lafortune 
On-campus Interviews Thursday, November 14 
~n know ns as Maxw~;l House 
coffee, Jell-0 gelatin, Miracle vVhip, 
Velveeta cheese, Kool-Aid, 

Philadelphia Brand cream cheese, 
Oscar Mayer hot dogs, Claussen 
pickles, Tombstone pizza and 

Entenmann's cookies -to name a few. 
\Ve're Kraft General Foods, a familiar 
sight in almost every American home ­
and millions ofothers worldwide. 
Meet the people behind the products. 
KGF's representatives are coming to talk with graduating seniors interested in a postion in Information Systems within the Chicagoland area. Ifyou're a creative, highly aware, focused go­getter, stop by the Reception/Pizza Party. We are eager to discuss challenges and choices with May Graduates who have a background in one of the following areas: 
• MIS 

• CAPP There's a world ofopportunities at Kraft General Foods. So please visit with us -and what you'll hear could lead to a very colorful career. Look for us on campus this fall. An Equal 
Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer. 
KRAFTGENERAL FOODS 
A WORLD OF OPPORTUNITIES 
Wednesday, October 9, 1991 
Co-founder of right-to­die group found dead 
EUGENE, Ore. (AP) -=---A co­founder of the Hemlock Society right-to-die group was found dead Tuesday. Her former hus­band, whose new how-to guide to suicide is a best seller, said he believed she killed herself. 
Ann Wickett Humphry, 49. had been missing in central Oregon since Oct. 2. 
She went through a difficult divorce last year and had bat­tled breast cancer. Her former husband, Hemlock Society ex­ecutive director Derek Humphry, said the malignancy was removed and that he was unaware of any recurrence of the cancer. But he said she had been depressed. 
"It's not within the philosophy of the Hemlock Society that you take your life if you're unhappy or you have a setback," Humphry said. The group ad­vocates assisted suicide only for those who are terminally ill. 
Ms. Humphry last was seen near Three Creeks Lake on the eastern border of the Three Sisters Wilderness Area. Her horse -its saddle and bridle removed -was found wander­ing later that day near the lake, where she had parked her pickup and horse trailer. 
Ms. Humphry's body was found about noon. said Under­sheriff Norm Thrasher of De­schutes County. He said an au­topsy was scheduled. 
Humphry said police told him his former wife had left a sui­cide note at her home near Monroe, in the Willamette Val­ley of Western Oregon. 
"I felt the worst had probably happened," Humphry said. 
In a statement released later, Humphry said his former wife "was dogged by emotional problems. and although she sought extensive treatment, her life was a series of peaks and troughs.... In a world where mental illness often cannot be cured, some people cannot cope with life and choose to leave." 
The Humphrys were married in 1976 and founded the non­profit Hemlock Society. 
The two collaborated on the books, "Jean's Way," about the assisted suicide of Humphry's first wife, and "The Right to Die: Understanding Euthana­sia." 
Humphry's latest book, "Final Exit," has been No. 1 on recent national best-seller lists. 
The Humphrys divorced in 1990 after a bitter separation. She also filed a $6 million law­suit against her ex-husband and the Hemlock Society last year. charging libel and slander for comments he made about her mental state. She contended that his actions were intended to induce her to commit suicide. 
Humphry said his ex-wife met recently with the son she gave up for adoption when she was in college. He also said friends of Ms. Humphrey in Los Ange­les told him she had intended to visit them later this month with a doctor she had been dating. 
If you see news happening call 239-5303 and let us know. The Observer 
a 2 a as a e: a s a as as a 
Viewpoint 
Page 10 Wednesday, October 9, 1991 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ...•....•....••...•.... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor •••..••••••.••..•.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ...•..•...••... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor..•..•••..•••..••••.John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

Notre Dame should not support SUFR's agenda 
Dear Editor: dence, hard work, and thrift. Office of Minority Affairs is it. blacks who have used the lib­crusade are required to attend 
One of the articles of faith for There is a prevailing fear We should be outraged. We eral as their crutch-opting for seminars on "multi-culturalism" black nationalists during the among these charlatans-as students should be outraged a sit-in or a march or a boycott and the College of Arts and Civil Rights crusade of the their is among the blacks in that our university has allo­instead of the perseverance and Letters is adjusting the 1960's was that the black man Notre Dame's mini-civil rights cated all too scarce financial hard work which generations of curriculum to jibe with liberal would not be liberated until he establishment, S. U. F.R.-that resources to salary so-called non-black Americans have used notions of "political correct-had lain with the white woman; Thomas will lend a moral au-scholars in the "black studies" to make their way-are still de­ness." this, the ultimate transgression .thority to the abrogation of af­program that pedal revisionist generate and crippled . Simply espousing of the race barrier. This was firmative action and qpota history and humor the national­Indeed, twenty years after de­"conservatism", however, is not why black leadership singled policies designed by idle eastern ist delusions of black students segregation and the implemen­enough. Self-indulgent talk out for relentless attack duly intellectuals bent on using the with what Orlando Patterson tation of liberal policies, blacks about the rise of the black con­established state statutes pro­black vote to further their lib­has aptly described as the are worse off today than they servative, labored speeches hibiting racial intermarriage. eral 
s9sial from the black academics and
:·:·:·:
:-:·:·:· ::::::: 

.·.····
This is also why S.U.F.R. in­·:·:·:· from all of those who make
~-~~-~~-~~: ::::::: ·:·:·:·:
sisted last year that Notre ·.·.·.· money writing and talking
:~~r~
Dame's computerized and ran­rm: ~~{~ .•.·.·.· about being conservative is not 
,... :·:·:·:

dom dormitory housing system :::::::: .·.·.·. for all its earnestness going to
·.·.·.·. :::::::
.... .·.·.·.

was racist. For almost invari­.·.·.•.· ::::::: !~!~~~! solve the problems of blacks. 
·:·:·:·:
ably blacks are housed with :::::::: Change must begin in our insti­other blacks and blacks at tutions.
::_j_i_!.~.l· ~f~~ .·•·•·•·
. ·.·.·•·

Notre Dame like blacks in the It was e.e. Cummings that old South cherish the pleasure has called the liberal bluff. We should be outraged that week's edition of the wrote "To like an individual be­of sleeping with whites. Affirmative action, a misnomer our student government uses Washington Post, notes that cause he's black is just as in­
With the nomination and im­that means robbing whites to our money to finance separatist nearly one in four black boys sulting as to dislike him be­pending confirmation of pay blacks for work they black organizations including can expect prison, parole or cause he isn't white." Thomas to the Supreme Court haven't done, has undercut the the N.A.A.C.P. which has de­probation before age 30. Nearly Affirmative action, the black 

one might expect that the black 
competitiveness of higher edu­nounced President Bush as a half will drop out of high school studies program, the office of leadership would be euphoric. cation and American business. racist and whose local mem­before graduation. And "it is minority affairs, the thousands But if Clarence beds with a But it seems that prestigious bership participated in Mike Tyson , not Clarence of student dollars allocated to white woman {he's married to universities, like Notre Dame, S. U. F.R.'s intrigues. Thomas, who rivets their exclusively black organizations one) his flirtatious career with still suffer the moral tyranny of Blacks, too, should be attention." means liking individuals be­
white conservatives is not to the blacks. outraged. Indeed, it is time that It should surprise no one that cause they're black . liking of the glamorous civil To appease the leaders of the blacks liberate themselves from as long as black college stu­This, Justice nominee Thomas rights oligarches. gadabout Students United for the patronizing advocacy of in­dents are allowed to believe realizes, does not fulfill the 
Jesse Jackson has said that Racism, the administration put tegrationist liberals and the that their color is a passport to spirit of the liberals' own Clarence is an opportunist, a three new minorities on the deprave black leadership that behavior and "entitlements" vaunted creed that one "must would-be conservative driven payroll to minister to the perpetuates black victimization. that are otherwise impermissi­not judge a man by the color of 
by a pathological self-hatred to "special needs" and "particular It is time that blacks stop mea­ble, they will demand more. his skin but by the content of denounce his people. concerns" of our university's suring their success by how Notre Dame cannot simulta­his character." And it is a 
. \ 
Congressman Craig Washington poor little negroes. In point of many black coaches there are neously hold that white and striking commentary to the 
of Texas said this summer that fact, the Office of Minority in the NFL or NBA or by how black students are equal while vacuity of the slur "racist" that "Clarence Thomas ain't fit to Affairs is a clearing house for many blacks are in the corpo­allowing them varying stan­Clarence Thomas-a black man shine Thurgood Marshall's 
inquiries from businesses and rate boardrooms of Nike and dards of conduct. If the univer­who endured poverty and racial 
shoes" and another black graduate schools seeking to fill Reebok. sity administration thought to discrimination-is denounced 
leader called Thomas "Ronald by blacks as racist.
their quotas and a comfortable I see no hope of improvement do what is right rather than do Reagan's house nigger". 
place where minorities can as long as the tried and dis­what is convenient, S.U.F.R. They who have made a nice gather to spin yarns about their proven and tried again anyway leaders would have been sum­
Paul Peralez

living blaming white people for experience of racial oppression. policies of liberals continue to marily expelled. 
Dillon Hall 

black problems bristle at If there is such a thing as hold sway among blacks. It But even worse is that our 
Oct. 6, 1991 Thomas' espousal of indepen-"institutionalized racism", the should surprise no one that faculty in the wake of S.U.F.R.'s 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
lH&N IN TH8 
IAJHAT?
7HIRJ)QU~ 
~~~!JlZN
I l-IlTtWINS'mN 

I 
CH, RiGHT,
TAU<ING AeafT
ai7He/R23 
R.IGHT...
FCO'fBAU... FOR
fORA 5HOf<T 
A SOUCJ HA/,F·
PICKUP OF... 
I 

~ / HOUR.! WNT 
YOUWANT70 KNOW 9C»1e-~ 
7HINGABOUT 
Me~ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'War isn't over until you don't have to live with it anymore.' 
Ron Kovic 

Comon' children. comon' and submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 

_____..~----------... ... ....-....--....--...,..,--------~---~~-~---~~-~~ ­
Accent 
Wednesday, October 9, 1,991 page 11 
Paige Smoron 
Non Sequiturs 


Fans speak 
out: Paige 
equals lOve? 
I 
t's getting weirder. 

The public -and, more notably, the 
anonymous -response to my work has 
been overwhelming. 

Don't panic, but I have received a secret 
communication from the Paige Smoron Fan 
Club, relating the transpirations of the past 
seven months. Far from dead, my deluded 
devotees have been struggling to uphold their 
marginally debauched lifestyles. Addressing me 
as "0 Churner of the Butter of Knowledge," they 
write: 

"After first informing you of our intention, we 
of the P.S.F.C. next approached the University 
Recognition Committee to be awarded the 
distinction of an 'official campuswide orga­
nization.' Officials consented to ponder our 
request. Naturally, we assumed that we'd be 
accepted, so we began holding meetings and 
planning for a January skiing/ice fishing trip." 
(You think I'm making this up, don't you?) 
"Well, unbeknownst to us, one meeting was 
clandestinely infiltrated by a member of the 
recognition committee. Within a fortnight, we 
were informed that our application had been 
unanimously denied. 

Apparently, the administrators disapproved of 
our weekly meetings, which were referred to as 
' ... reminiscent of early pagan lust-fests, 
breaking all standards of morality, decency, and 
ethics.' They ordered us to immediately disband 
and desist all activity under the P.S.F.C. name. 
The final words of the letter emphasized this ­
'Hedonists-be gone!!"'. 
(Those are my boys!} 

"Our meetings continued, but we were 
constantly raided by campus police and 
members of Operation Safewalk. I became a 
wanted man... I found it necessary to 
discontinue usage of the label 'Pablito,' instead, 
my moniker became 'Zoot.' Fortunately, Skrippo 
and Gil St. Claude have been as slippery and 
elusive as newborn eels." 

(This is where it starts to get a little odd:) 
"Ah the dreaded paradox! Those heathen university figureheads call us atheistic because we worship a woman who is surely a goddess ... IS IT WRONG to follow your heart!?! IS IT WRONG to give a genius the respect she deserves!?! IS IT WRONG to love!?! IS IT WRONG for two men to go camping together and maybe have a weenie roast!?! If these things are wrong, if they are evil, if they are immoral, then we admit that we are guilty ­guilty of love in the first degree." 
I was still blushing hotly, embarrassed of my utter unworthiness, and frankly disconcerted by some of their more vivid metaphors, when my name was again invoked, this time in a Letter to the Editor. John Stoj, at the end of an argument denying the existence of sexual activity on campus, writes, "(gosh, I join the ranks of Paige Smoron in using that word in print -wait a sec­ond ... condom, condom, condom -now I've used it more than Paige ... )." This otherwise completely irrelevant comment is, I fear, indicative of the sentiments of the campus. In short: this poor boy associates me with condoms. 
If readers continue to randomly link me with my subject matter -be it prophylactics, manicures, or even, God forbid, the lambada ­where will it end? Since most of my columns are of a romantic nature, how long will it be before my very name becomes equated with love? Is the day approaching when "Paige" will slip into common usage as an attractive alternative to the now-hackneyed verb "to love," as in, "I paige you, but I'm not in paige with you"? 
The horror! What could possibly be more hysteria-inducing? (Answer: The P.S.F.C. could begin executing symbolic bombings.) 
Paige Smoron is AssistantAccent Editor of The Obserz,er. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
JAPCU fOsters sitive relations 
By JENNIFER GUERIN Munich, New ork, Georgetown, education and advanced research 
Accent Writer and San Francisco. Each school is under quality administration." 
being studied from a particular Hoping to challenge Japanese 
Integrity. angle, providing suggestions for students involved in higher edu­
Diiigence. dealing with certain problems or cation, members of JAPCU looks to 
Family commitment. situations it may share with a diverse assortment of colleges 
Americans have looked con­Japanese universities. around the world for ideas about 
tinuously to Japan as a model Bill Sexton, Vice President of administrative and academic 
nation that esteems values like University Relations, remarked programs. From American· 
these. Japanese society centers that one of the main reasons Notre universities, says Sexton, they seek 
around a solid value system which Dame was chosen as a campus on help in ••thinking through the 
some people may say America is JAPCU's current trip is the uni­problems they are facing today." 
lacking these days. versitis commitment to values Encumbered by massive en­
In the educational realm, that are important to Japanese rollment increases, JAPCU's 800 
however, American universities society. Honesty, trust, family, and universities (which account for 
are the focus of Japanese at­self-discipline are universally about 70 percent of the total 
tention. At the University of Notre important, and easily transferrable higher education in the country) 
Dame in particular, Japan sees the to a culture like Japan's because are striving to keep up with the ... 
successful implementation of they are values "similar in nature problems of a technologically and 
academic excellence and, more to those they admire." economically burgeoning society. 
importantly, a distinct set of Since World War II, radical 
values. Sexton, along with University educational reform has been 
These traditional values are the President, Father Edward Malloy, implemented in Japan to make a very same ones that Japan has and Executive Vice President college education more accessible. ingrained into almost every aspect Father Beauchamp, had become Economic growth in the 1960's of her society, and are currently acquainted with members of meant higher incomes, which in trying to strengthen in post­JAPCU in Japan this past year turn meant more children applying secondary education. during two visits organized to to the increasing number of 
Forty-two leaders of private foster "more intimate universities. With national universities in Japan are meeting relationships" between Notre government subsidies, private with Notre Dame administrators Dame and Japan in the areas of schools began to grow even more. this week in an effort to examine government, economics and However, larger enrollment "led the university as a model for academics. to mass education and slower value-based education. The trips were part of a con­innovative move or reform in 
Members of the Japanese tinuing series including cities education and research." In Association of Private Colleges and throughout Europe and along the response to potential problems, Universities (JAPCU) have chosen Pacific Rim designed to help the the Ministry of Education set up South Bend as a stop on their administration "internationalize the University Council to prepare a lengthy tour of college campuses the Notre Dame experience for reform plan for Japanese in Europe and the United States to students and faculty alike." university education. The Council learn more about dealing with the Administrators will be returning to has since submitted several problems of higher education on Asia tw"o more times in the recommendations to the the administrative, economic and following year in an effort to committee. personal levels. continue building the relationships Both cultures are growing as a 
fostered on previous trips. result of this week's seminar. 
Three days of sessions led by The University of Notre Dame While Japan is searching to in­Notre Dame administrators and and private universities in Japan, ternationalize its courses of study professors have addressed such despite different cultural and draw from foreign systems of topics as research and financial environments, share many administration and education, planning, recruitment, faculty and aspirations for producing a Notre Dame also is learning from graduate program development, virtuous, capable student body. the Japanese. Crossing cultural and the implementation of a value­In a JAPCU brochure pertaining barriers to realize similar values centered education. Speakers to higher education in Japan, has enabled the university to include University President educational administrators state: extend its sphere of influence and Father Malloy, Professor "In this era of mass education, the sharing, and perceive the world as Furuhashi of the College of students feel at a loss as to how to a more unified place. Business. Patricia O'Hara, and select their higher institution Similar problems in business, Provost Timothy O'Meara. which would help them develop government and education con­
Two years ago on a visit to the their own capabilities and acquire front all countries: interaction with United States, a JAPCU contingent their own value-oriented thinking. other nations will serve to make visited Stanford and Brown for ...We believe that the future of each society more successful in similar reasons. Other college education is in the hands of people adapting to its place and problems cities on this year's itinerary are who constantly strive for liberal in an increasingly small world. 
Accent

page 12 Wednesday, October 9, 1991 

witchcraft 
Arthur Millerls liThe Crucible II premieres at Washington Hall 
By TIM ROGERS 
Accent Writer 

The citizens of Salem, Massachusetts, did not take their witches lightly. In 1692, they hanged nineteen of them, stoned another, and let two more die in prison. 
For the last three hundred years, Salemites have tried to live down their witch-hunt. In the 1950's, Arthur Miller wrote a play about it called "The Crucible." And tomorrow, the Notre Dame Communication and Theatre department will present Miller's play at Washington Hall. 
The plot of "The Crucible" runs thick with all the elements that make for good theater ­jealousy, greed, witchcraft, voodoo, and especially adultery. The hero of the play, John Proctor, is a good Puritan who makes a bad mistake and is asked to lie under oath. His struggle to do the right thing becomes the climax of the story. 
The plot action revolves around a young girl who is apparently stricken with the work of the devil. The town learns that the girl has been dancing in the woods with her friends and accuses them of witchcraft. The townspeople are swept into a paranoia that shakes the entire community. 
Playwright Arthur Miller wrote The Crucible during the McCarthy era when Americans were obsessed with rooting out Communism from the government. Miller saw a parallel between the Salem witch trials and the rabid hunt for Communists in the 1950's. 
"We chose to do the play because it has 
pertinence today," says director Father Arthur Harvey "It's a true story about the witch trials of 1692. Arthur Miller did a lot of research for it." 
Harvey says that the ensemble is producing the play with the costume and furniture of the witch trial period. He says that the addition of two new faculty member to the department will enhance the production. 
"For the first time, there won't just be a technical director. With the addition of set designer Bruce Auerbach and costume designer Richard Donnelly, we now have specialists," says Harvey. "It makes the work load easier." 
Senior English 111ajor Tim Deenihan will play the lead role of John Proctor. Deenihan has been acting at Notre Dame since his freshman year and his credits include roles in "The Importance of Being Ernest," and "Twelfth Night." He says that he is looking forward to playing the part. 
"I read this play in high school," says Deenihan. "and I have wanted to play John Proetor ever since. It's a tough role and I'm excited to be playing it." 
Performances of "The Crucible" will run from Wednesday, October 9, through Saturday. October 12, at 8:10 PM, and on Sunday, October 13, at 3:10 PM. Tickets are $7 for reserved seats and are available at the door or in ad­vance at the LaFortune Student Center Box 
I

Office. Student and senior citizen discounts, available for the Wednesday, Thursday, and The Observer/Sean Farnan Sunday performances, are $5. For MasterCard (Top and above) Members of the cast of "The Crucible" get ready for and Visa orders, call (219) 239-8128. 
tonight's opening performance of Arthur Miller's classic play. 
RHA is aiming to improve Saint Mary's 
By JEANNE DeVITA 
Accent Writer 
The parietal system at Saint Mary's-gone. The food in the SMC dining hall-delicious. Entertainment provided on the SMC campus-guaranteed. An organization has been born that will make the Saint Mary's of the future the school that ev­ery student dreams it can be. 
The 1991-92 school year will mark the first year that SMC has been affiliated with the na­tional Residence Hall Association (RHA). Through membership in RHA, SMC will set up a body which will func­tion in accordance with Student Government, yet be privileged to many perks independent of SG. 
The goal of RHA is to pro­mote campus unity. The nine organizational committees and the executive committee will work with the residence halls to promote changes on campus. 
Whether those changes are as standard as organizing a dance or as controversial as revolutionizing the parietals system. RHA is the group that will take the students' ideas and form them into sound proposals that will satisfy both the students' desire for a thriving, energetic community and also maintain the administration's standards of safety and quality. 
RHA will function very simi­larly to the Students Activities Board. RHA, however, will concentrate on catering to the needs of on-campus residents, unlike SAB which coordinates activities for all students, in­cluding off-campus residents. 
"SAB does a lot that RHA could be doing," said President Ellen McQuillan. McQuillan hopes that as RHA establishes itself as an effective voice for students, it will take over a lot of the excess work that SAB does not always have time for, such as hall improvement needs. 
The national RHA functions primarily as a resource for ex­change of ideas and implemen­tation of change by students. RHA committees are composed of students who frequently poll the student body for ideas con­cerning the improvement of any aspect of SMC residence life. 
As a member of national RHA, the SMC board has access to files containing programs from schools across the country which can be used as models for change at Saint Mary's. 
This year, RHA is still in its infancy. The board was se­

' lected last spring and has been meeting since before school be­gan to set the wheels in motion. The executive board of RHA is "students working for students." Some of its members are: President Ellen McQuillan, Vice President Brenda Oaks, Secretary Mary Barger, Treasurer Joan VanHersett, Co­National Communications Coordinators Megan Fannon and Delia Alvardo. And many students have complaints. The majority of students polled favor eliminat­ing the current parietal system and instituting an honor code. 
However, many women still have reservations about the safety of having an open-door policy. Ideas conflict creating the need for an organized body to serve the concerns of all res­idents. 
RHA has been taking stu­dents' comments for the last few days and has compiled a formal ballot. The ballot con­tains several elements of a new parietal system. All students are encouraged to vote this week in the dining hall. A pro­posal of the results will then be presented to the Director of Residence Life. 
McQuillan views the opportu­nities open to RHA as very en­couraging. While the issues may be controversial and de­manding, the administration at SMC is very supportive. "It's the students' decision-we're the ones that have to live by them (any new changes)," said McQuillan. 
Another common complaint is the quality . or lack thereof, 
· of the food in the dining hall. Last Thursday, RHA met with Marriott Food Service repre­sentatives to discuss improve­ments and alternatives. The Marriott representatives were very interested in students' input, and together with RHA ideas have taken steps to improve the food quality and add more variety to the menu. Making use of the third line for weekly specials, and adding calorie, fat and protein infor­mation about each entree will be attempts by Marriott to in­crease the satisfaction of Saint Mary's diners. Due to the desire of Marriott to work with students and modify the meals offered to im­prove overall quality and satis­faction, a food forum will be held the first Thursday of each month. Students, as well as RHA members, are welcome to talk with food service workers at 6 pm in the Wedge Room (McCandless side) and present 
ideas and exchange concerns. 
RHA is also working to open a more impressive variety of regular on-campus entertain­ment. Plans are being consid­ered to convert the Clubhouse two nights a week into a cof­feehouse. Bands and visiting musicians will provide atmo­sphere for this non-alcoholic alternative to the Senior Bar. 
RHA will also be involved in the planning of the campus­wide spring dance, various educational programs on campus, and hall improvements. There is a lot to be done to make SMC a better school-RHA wants to help make it better. 
But RHA is just starting out. It needs volunteers to work committees and students to contribute ideas. The power to improve is within the grasp of the students. Every student can help. Every student has useful ideas. 
As a resident of SMC, a student is automatically a member of RHA, but changes will only occur when someone suggests a change, voices an opinion, or cares enough to complain. 
Contact Vice President Brenda Oaks to become one of those who care enough to make SMC an even better place to live. 
( I 
----~------------------------._...---~--...______________~---~~----­
Wednesday, October 9, 1991 page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Wanted: 1 Pitt Stud & 2 Navy Give me your PITT Student Tic and I NEED 4 PITT GA'S I NEED 1 PITI TICKET! WHO HAS THE MIRACLE TICKET GAs: Please help. X4036 you will know the meaning of life (or CALL 289-7128 Please call x1963 Notices at least get some money) Chris student OR ga LOOKING FOR 4 PITT GA'S 
ATTENTION CHEESEHEADS! x3414 HELP! I NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. USED BOOKS CHEAP!!!!!!!!!! need ride to Kenosha, Oshkosh, or WILL PAY$$$$ -AIR FORCE GA's Needed!! FRIENDS ROADTRIPING FROM 25% off list price St. Point, WI for fall break. Call usc usc usc usc usc usc ASK FOR AL@ X1230 (At least 2) Please Caii­THE 'BURGH. 10-5:30 everyday x2040 & ask for Joe. usc usc usc usc usc Catheeln @x 2822 
Pandora's Books corner of NO 
Vince Needs two GA's to see CALL PETE AT 234-4715­ave & Howard 
THE TROJANS DESPERATELY NEED 3 ST. TIX LEAVE A MESSAGE AND I'LL For Rent Call x3414 anytime FOR SALE: 2 PITI AND 6 TENN FOR TENN. Call Kathy x3958 MEET YOU. TYPING AVAILABLE usc usc usc usc usc usc GA'S. CHRIS X1023. 287-4082 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY usc usc usc usc usc usc Need Pitt GAs I NEED 4 USC GA'S !!! 219-291-7153 Call Jim 232-3296 NEED GAs FOR PITT AND USC. PLEASE CALL Lost and Found House for Rent MONEY NO OBJECT. Call Ron i need 2 GAs for PITT Jeffx1791 I need 2 or 3 Tenn. GA ANDREA 283-1330. 
$2001Mo, Call Paul287-2159 x2157 call Shawn X3256 GLASSES FOUND! 8am-4pm. FOR SALE: 2 tickets for NLCS sell book std tix ONE PAIR MEN'S GLASSES IN 1310 South Bend Ave. Help, I need 2 Tenn GAs for game 2 between Pitt/Atlanta. Need TENN & USC GA's Stan 271 1 9 98 8-11 LENSCRAFTERS CASE FOUND Tenn. for my good looking, Thur. at 8. Call Scott at 277-x1726 ON FRIDAY NITE, 10/4, NEAR available, uncle, who has 5276, lv. message. I desperately need 2 pitt ga's! LIBRARY. TO CLAIM, CALL For Sale never seen a game at N~all WILL TRADE GA'S! NEED 2 USC, call Art at 2479 COLETTE, 283-4434. Laura at 277-9185, please! i need 1 GA for PITT, dammit. Dana HAVE 2 NAVY. JILL X3021 
CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill dee 277-8084. Need 2 Pitt G.A's. Call 2106. IF YOU ARE THE YOUNG LADY T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T­Will trade/deal 2 Pitt GA's NEED 2 PITI GAS WHO DRIVES A WHITE HONDA Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone for 2 Tenn GA's/Stu tix. I NEED 1 STUD TIX OR GA FOR SHARON 284-5146 Large family needs PITT GA'S CRX AND LOST HER Game Day Promotions 291-6394. Mike 288-7458 NAVY PLEASE CALL PAT Use ALL we buy -GAURANTEED SUNGLASSES AT THE CAR X1763 TENNESSEE: NEED 6 GA'S JEFF eves 272 9602 
WASH, STOP BY OR CALL. THE SEGA GENESIS & GAMES BST SHARON 284-5146 GLASSES HAVE BEEN FOUND. OFR X4070 EXCHANGE: I HAVE 2 GA'S FOR Roseanna Arquette was 
PITT AND WILL EXCHANGE Desperately Seeking Susan; I NEED 1 PITT TICKET FOR A Personal LOST: GOLD CHAIN WI DIAMOND. selling student ticket booklet THEM FOR 2 TENN GA'S. Sean H. is desperately seeking FRIEND! OLD! HEIRLOOM. BEYOND x3025 CALL MARIA AT 284-5132 Tenn. G.A.'s $$$ @289-6439 Who got us BUSTED, The SENTIMENTAL VALUE. GREG 1742 THUNDERDOME thats who! 
IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO CD Player-asking $75 MY LITTLE BROTHER AND ATTENTION EVERYONE: I NEED KELLEY X4294 call Mike at x1068 FRIENDS WANT TO COME TO 6 TICKETS FOR THE TENN. NEEDED: 2 TIX, STUD OR GA I am the Lizard King and I can do THE **NAVY** GAME. NEED GAME!! EVEN ONE WILL HELP!! FOR TENN. CALL SUE AT 271-anything. LOST OR STOLEN Have round Trip ticket GA'S! MICHELLE 284-5536 0053. 
LICENSE PLATE to ATLANTA good til CALL MARIA AT 284-5132 $$$$ Illinois plate reading Christmas X1167 kyle I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S WILL SELL Need GA's to all home games. "D TROll" missing since WANTED: 2 TENN TICKETS OR TRADE (PLUS$$$) FOR_ 2 have extra Purdue tix. 
Thurs. 19 Sept.; came off 1983 Buick LeSabre Limited, Need 4 PITT GA's. Can you help PLEASE CALL EMILY AT TENN GA'S CALL MOE 3402 Call Tom x1563 somewhere between Kaplan 34,000 miles, excellent condition, me out? X4419 277-4861 Educational Center (next to Turtle loaded and overdrive, $5,900foffer, Have 1 Pitt GA FAST EASY INCOME! Creek) and the D-2 lot. I realize it's 277-9737. I need a student ticket or GA for Leave Offer EARN 1OO'S WEEKLY STUFFING cute, but it will cost a bundle to Pitt-call Diane x2855 HELP! ,.,. ENVELOPES. SEND SELF­replace so PLEASE return if you One Pitt Student ticket TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED x2204 ADDRESSED STAMPED have it and no questions will be 4 sale. x3459 ask for Joe. HELP! I need Pitt Please call Sam Santo at -ENVELOPE TO: askedI! If you have the plate or tickets! !l Please call 1321 (201 )217-0030 (home) or Need 4 Pitt GAs! FAST INCOME info, call4911. Generous reward (201) 992-8700 (work). Monica (as in Eigelberger) P.O. BOX 641517 offered. Tickets Need 6 Ten. and 6 USC GA's 273-2202 CHICAGO, IL60664-1517 
Will pay big bucks. '68 ALUM DESPERATELY LOST!!!!!!! I need tickets for Mich. St., and #3718 WANTS 2 GA'S TO I need 2 Navy GAs. SENIORS: Are you hungry and sick 
USC. Call1384 TENN OR USC Call Kathy x4944 of boring conversations? Then you at Steppan fields or tennis Have 2 Tenn GAs, want to trade for CALL JOANNE 2184 OR 3783 should sign up for a Senior Rap Up courts on Sunday, Sept. 29, NO FOOTBALL TICKETS 2 Pitt GAs. CAll Shannon P. 272-I have Pitt GAs, need 2 GAs for Group! Guaranteed stimulating gold Seiko watch and 3 rings that WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. 8735. WILL BUY USC AND TENNESSEE Tenn or USC! Roger at273-1228. conversations and delicious food! have lots of sentimental value. GA's FOR $100 A TICKET 2773097 Sign up at the CSC by Friday, Oct. If found, please call x2867 PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX MANY PITT AND NAVY TICKETS Have PITT GAS to trade 11. 
$$$$REWARD$$$$$ NEEDED. RICH PARENTS WILL Need 4 TENN GA's for USC or TENN 
Alum needs 2 GA's for Pitt. Will pay PAY BIG MONEY! call jon 271-1562 or sell SENTENCED TO A PAPER TERM? LOST!!!! I A blue Notre Dame jacket $$$. Call at work CALL ERIC or JEFF @x3575 X1167 or 1177 Trying to beef up a meatless with teal and white stripes on the (312) 701-6204 or at home I need 2 USC tix resume? We can help with all sorts sleeve. Yeah, the kind you can (708) 616-7818 anytime. Selling Pittsburgh student Tom #3109 I need 4 GA's for the USC or Navy of editorial services. BUY at the bookstore! If whoever PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX tickets. Luis: 273-1528 game. PLEASE! Call Amy at284-IDEAS INTO INK took this jacket from South Dining · NEED 4 G.A. TIX TO ANY HOME 5117. Thanx. 288-3508 Hall on Tuesday, Oct. 1 could call NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE NEED 2 PIT GA TIX GAME WILL PAY GOOD$$$. X4000, and offer to return it, it CALL JILL 272-1967. so bad that it hurts Mike1655 TIM #1763 Need Pitt Tix X3543 URGENT! Rich Alumnus needs 2 would be greatly appreciated. PITT TIX Kathleen@ x3726 
NEEDED: 4 PITT GAs NEED PITT GA'S I NEED USC,TENN,PITT,& NAVY Need 2 GA's for Navy and x4132. Lost: blue NO sweatshirt in Call Heather at 3427. X2187 DAN GA TIXS.272-6306 Tennessee. Call Tim at x1417. front of Cushing 1 0/1. If found, GETAWAY WEEKEND please call x1 007. NEED 2 PITT GAS NEED 6 TIX FOR PITT ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S Need 2 GAs for Pitt, 1 for Tenn. for KOONTZ HOUSE 
CALL ROB @ 3054 CALL TOM x3242 TO ANY HOME GAME$ friends from MAINE! BED 'N BREAKFAST LOST: I was going to the CALL COLLECT x2258 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE cleaners and I dropped my WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR NEEDED: 1 GA NAVY. CALL 812-477-2627 DAME roommate's tie somewhere TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL CHRISTINE AT 271-0053. Will trade 2 Pitt for 2 Navy 586-7090 between Flanner and 02 on 601-249-3417 NIGHTS. NEED 4 PITT GA'S AND 2 NAVY Call Kelley 283-4836 Monday, October 7 at about DESPERATELY NEEDED!! GA'S ...CALL 288-7458 AND ASK I am the Lizard Child, and I've got 
12:45 PM. If you picked it up i need 2 GAs for PITT for my aunt, 2 PITT GAS-PARENTS COMING FOR MATT OR ROB I Need Two Tennessee Tickets So an Oedipus complex that'll please call Jason at 1521 who's a nun, and her friend, another IN FOR BIRTHDAY! my friends can see those Red Neck drive you wild. before he kills me! nun. Would you deny a nun her CALL LAURA AT X2545 Relative have never seen Vols. Call the Green-One x3409. 
fun? Greg x1795 CONDOMS IN ACTION! EAR CANDY LOST: Small Indian purse I NEED USC TIX (STUD OR GA) NEED 3 USC GA'S to have TIX WANTED: WVFI640am w/ student 1.0. card. i need up to 5 STUD tix for USC. CALL MIKE@ 277-9205 their DREAMS COME TRUE 2 NAVY 1 USC presents Please call Mike at petex1791 Call MIKE at X2360 The Jericho Sesssions 283-3546 or send to I Have TENN GAs Brian x1743 A 73 minute CD featuring 19 ·• 261 Morrissey Manor!! $$$$$ will Trade for PITT GAs Rich alums need 10 A.F. g.a.'s. Will anginal songs from 19 campus 
call Paul 283-3863 pay $$$. Call Gus or Mike at (206) Thuy is so desperate for G.A.s or bands. All precedes benefit the USC GA's needed. Call and leave 624-7990 student tickets to Pitt he'll show you South Bend Runaway Shelter. Wanted message 277-9468. Need Pitt G.A.'s anything you want to see. Sell him ON SALE NOW!! 
call Karl x1765 I desperately need 2 U.S.C student two tix to get the mother of all AT OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 $$$$$ G.A's. Call Melli@ 3950. rewards. Try him at his personal LAFORTUNE !FORMATION DESK mo.Summer,Yr.round,AII HELP!! Need 3 GA's for NAVY love palace@272-9326. If he isn't Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write NEED TENN. GA'S. x2797 Need LOTS of GA's for Navy and home please leave this rich, rich DOCTOR STAT, DOCTOR LOVE IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS, USC Whitney X4304 man a message about the tickets. HAS FOUND A NEW VICTIM; BEN Mar CA 92625. OR 708-251-4502 AFTER 8 PM. •HAVE TO HAVE 1 TN. X1959 JEHRING HAS BEEN INFECTED 
I need a Navy GA desperately Attention! I have friends coming BY A CALLIPYGIAN. Need ride to Newark or NY on NEED GA's AND STUD. TIX TO We need 1 USC and 1 Navy GA Call Mike x4655 from California who woud love to break. Pay$.272-6324 lev.mes. ALL HOME GAMES. Call Chris or Pat@ 4657 see the Irish destroy USC. Any GAs Native offers Spanish classes 
X1578 HELP! Alum needs 2 USC GAs or student tix would be most DESPERATE! Need CONNELLS Help!! I need G.A.s to both Pitt and Will pay $$-call Ivan @2037 excellent, dude. Call 277-6932 and Beatriz Tickets!!! Call X1891 WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD USC. Please call Andy @ give Rob your price. If Rob isn't Call 272 97 13 
JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? 233-9588. NEED 5 Pitt GA's Joe #2190 home listen to his excellent BABYSITTING for delightful 7 NEED 3 TICKETS TO NO vs. USC answering machine and leave a Are you driving to months & 23 months old boy & girl. ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789-Need PITT GA'S; call@ 2789 I need: 2 Navy GAs message. CHARLOTTESVL, VA!vicinity for Within 1-1/2 miles of campus. Call 0654 leave message will return call Tenn. GAs break? If so,l need a ride! Pat 272-7862. immediately call Greg 289-8917 NEEDED:4-6 Tenn. GAs,any USC Sheri x2191 
I need 1 NAVY GA tix Call Jeremy 277-4873 FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS Allison x3715 usc usc usc usc Help me be a little angel! My CLUB 23 Promote and Organize our Spring I Need 4 GAs Asap for Family godmother needs a USC GA. Be Need 2-4 NAVY GA'S. Will pay top & Break tours. All materials furnished. NEED 2 PITT GA's Jenny at 3822 my savior-X3484 dollar! call Jeff 234-2396 VIC'S SUBS Good Pay and Fun. Call Campus Monica X2680 are now open from Marketing. 1-800-423-5264 FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME Need 4 General Admission Tickets I NEED 2 TENNESEE GA'S 11 am to 3 am 
GAMES273-1802 to Pitt and 2 tickets to USC. Call CALL COREY 277-5854 The Only Alternative 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS PLEASE!! Marylou or Ray Cressy at 234-Live Music and Specials to students or student organizations SELL ME 1 OR 2 TENN TIX!! DESPERATELY NEED TIX FOR 7553 (Day) or 234-3873 (Nite) I Need 2 USC GA's (7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) promting our Spnng Break X1684 USC. STUDENT OR GA. (Willing to -Steve X 1835 Phone: 234-4015 Packages. Good Pay and Fun. trade) Call Ron 277-9205 NEED 2 GA FOR USC. LV. MSG 
Call CMI. 1-800-423-5264. FOR MK. 312/868-0119. HAVE 2 GA Pitt CALL 288-0730 WVFI640am 
HAVE 2 STUD TIX TO ALL HOME Need 2 Pitt tix EVENINGS PRESENTS Earn $2500 and Free Trips Selling GAMES, WILL TRADE FOR TENN. Call Liz at 4094 Need 2 USC GA's. This is THE CONNELLS Spring Break Packages to TIX, OR WILL SELL. CALL SERIOUS! Call Steve x2366 HAVE 2 great Pitt tickets (section 8) with special guest Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, JASON.287-8818. Need 2 USC GAs. DESPERATELY want to TRADE for 7 Simons 
Florida! Best Trips and Prices! Call Cath x4276 NEED 2 TENN GAs-CALL DOC AT 2 USC GAs Where: Theodore's Spring Break Travel 1-800-638-I HAVE PITT GAS FOR 2723001 Call Kelley 283-4836 When: Thursday, Oct. 10 6786. SALE -Call Matt x2318. I NEED NAVY AND TENN GA'S 9:00pm 
HAVE 1 PITT GA NEED PITT GA'S FOR POOR Hey DB! (doors open at 8:30) ••PITT Tlx·· I NEED TIX FOR PITT AND FOR SALE OR TRADE RELATIVES. CALL KEVIN 1589 Still not getting any or are you just tickets on sale at Lafortune lneed 5 TENN refusing all the offers? Info desk for $5.at door for$6. Also Need 1 USC CALL TOM I NEED USC GAS CARPE DIEM! x4421 CALL KEVIN @ 289-6541 X1762 CALL PHIL X2096 LUV, Molly and Kristin 
see CLASS I page 15 
Wednesday, October 9, 1991

SCOREBOARD
page 14 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES  CONFERENCE  
P•trlck  Dlvl•lon  
w  L  T  Pis  GF  GA  
New Jersey  3  0  0  6  t7  9  
Washlnglon  2  0  0  4  8  3  
NY Rangers  2  t  0  4  7  7  
Piltaburgh  t  0  1  3  7  6  
NY Islanders  t  0  0  2  4  3  
Philadelphia  0  t  t  t  4  7  
Aduna Dlvl..on  
Montreal  t  t  1  3  7  7  
Quebec  1  1  0  2  9  8  
Boston  t  2  0  2  9  9  
Hartford  0  1  t  1  4  6  
Buffalo  0  2  0  0  5  8  
CAMPBELL  CONFERENCE  
Norrl• Dlvlalon  
W  L  T  Pis  GF  GA  
Toronto  2  t  0  4  t4  9  
Minnesota  t  0  0  2  4  2  
Detroit  0  t  1  t  8  tt  
Chicago  o 2  1  t  7  tt  
St. Louis  o 2  0  0  2  tO  
Smythe  Dlvl..on  
V~r  3  0  0  6  t2  7  
Los Angeles  t  0  t  3  8  5  
Calgary  1  t  0  2  t2  7  
Winnipeg  t  2  0  2  10  12  
Edmonton  0  t.  1  t  4  tt  
San Jose  0  2  0  0  5  9  
Mond•y'e  Gamee  
N.Y. Rangers 2, Boston t, OT  
Toronto 3, St. Louis 0  
Tueedey'e  G•mn  
L•te G•me• Not Included  
New Jersey 6, Quebec 5  
Montreal 2, Hartford 2, tie  
Vancouver 3, Winnipeg 2, OT  
Edmonton at Los Angeles. (n)  
Calgary at San Jose, (n)  
Wedneed•y'e  G•me•  
Boston at Buffalo, 7:35p.m.  
N.Y. Islanders at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m.  
Washinglon a_! Toronto, 7:35p.m.  
TRANSACTIONS  


l 
BASEBALL Amerlcen Leegue BOSTON RED SOX-Fired Joe Morgan, 
manager. Named Butch Hobson manager. DETROIT TIGERS-Named Larry Herndon coach for the t992 season. 
MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Demoted Harry Dalton, general manager, to senior vioe president. Named Sal Bando general manager, Bruce Manno assistant vice president of baseball operations and AI Goldis vice president of sooutlng and planning. 
SEAffiE MARINERS--Ex!ended the contract of BHI Keams, major league and special assignment scout, for two years. 
TEXAS RANGER~Assigned Marl< Parent and Mke Stanley, catchers; Mario Dlaz and Gary Green, infielders; and Mke Jeffcoat, pitcher, to Oklahoma City of the American Association. Reinstated Brad Arnsberg, John Barfield and Scott Chiarrparino. pitchers; and Jeff Kunkel, infielder, from the 60-day disabled list. Netlon•l Leegue 
ATLANTA BRAVE~Added Jerry WHiard, calcher, and Randy St. Claire, pltcher, to the postseason roster. Dropped Nick Esasky, first baseman, and Juan Berenguer, pitcher, from the postseason roster. 
FLORIDA MARLINS-Named Whitey Lockman senior advisor for player personnel. 
HOUSTON ASTROS-51gned Art Howe, manager, and Man Galante. Phil Gamer, Bob Cluck, Ed on and Rudy JaramiRo, coaches, to t­year oontracls. 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Named Eddie Haas executive advisor for baseball operations; Kent QuaMs director of minor league operations; Gregg Leonard adminstrative aasiatant for scouting; and Felipe Alou coach. 
NEW YORK MET~Iaimed Junior Noboa. infielder, off waiY8fll from the Montreal Expos. lntem•llon•l Le•gue 
ROCHESTER RED WINGs-Announced the resignation of Dan Lunetta, general manager, effective Dec. 1, so he can become director of mirior league administration for the Florida Martins. BASKETBALL 
USA BASKETBALL-Announced the retirement of BiU Wall, •ecutlve dlrettor, effective Sept. 30, t992. Named Wall coordinator of special projects. Appointed Tommy Amaker, Quinn Buckner, Terdema Ussery, Betty Jayne8 and Stan Labanowich to the USA Board of Directors. N•tlon•l B..ketb•ll A..ocl•llon 
DENVER NUGGETS-5igned Dkerme Mutof"T"tx), center, to a 5-year contracl. 
LOS ANGELES LAKERS-Walved Roy Fisher, foiWard, and Jason Matthews, guard. Continental Beeketb•ll Aeeocl•tlon 

) 
ALBANY PATROONS-Named Timothy Henry head trainer. TAl-CITY CHINOOK-signed Michael Holton, guard; Wayne Tinkle, center; and Alan Pollard, 
forward. Global B..ketball A18ocl•tlon 

I 
HUNTSVILLE LASERS-5igned Keenan Carpenter, guard. FOOTBALL N•tlon•l Football L•gue 
DETROIT LION~Traded Harvey Salem, offensive lineman, to the Denver Broncos lor a 1992 third-round draft choice. Waived Mark Brown, 
linebacker. 

1 
INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-5igned Tim Manoa, running back. Waived Jack Linn, tackle. Activated WKiiam Schu~. tackle, from the practice squad. 
LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Released Mike Wise, defensive lineman. WASHINGTON REDSKINS-5igned Jason Buck,

l .. 
defensive end. HOCKEY E••t CoHt Hockey League 
CINCINNATI CYCLONES-Named Blaine Stoughton assistant coach. TOLEDO STORM-51gned Pat Pylypuk,

J 
defenseman. SOCCER Major Soccar Leegue 
BALTIMORE BLAST -Released Angelo Panzena. delenseman. COLLEGE 
EASTERN INTERCOLLEGIATE BASEBALL LEAGUE-Announced Army and Navy will leave the league after the t992 season to join the Patriot League. 
BENTLEY-Named Bob DeFelice athletic director. COAST GUARD-Named Charles Goodwin assistant athletic trainer. GANNON-Named Rick Binder men's assistant basketball ooach. 
JACKSON STATE-fir.cl Martin Epps, track and field coach. Named Jame. Adjal acting track and field coach. 
MONMOUTH, N.J.--Named Jack Miller women's part-time aaeistant baklllbal coach. 

I' 
Home Away Div 
2..()-0 t-o-o ().()..() 2..()-0 o-o-o t-o-o t..()-0 t-t-o ().()..() 0-0-t t..()-0 0-0-t ().()..() t-o-o ().()..() ().()..() o-t-t o-t-t 
1-1-0 o-o-t o-o-t 
().()..() 1-t-0 t-o-o 1-t-o o-1-o ().()..() 0.1-t o-o-o o-t-t 
o-t-o o-t-o 
().()..() 
Home Away Dlv 2..()-0 Q-1-0 2-o-o t-o-o o-o-o t-o-o o-o-o o-t-t o-t-t o-t-t o-t-o o-t-t o-o-o Q-2-Q o-t-o 
1..()-0 2-0-0 3-0-0 ().()..() 1-0-t t-o-t 1..()-0 Q-t-0 1-1-o 
1-2-0 o-o-o t-2-o 0-0-t o-t-o Q-1-t o-t-o o-t-o D-2·0 
DEVILS 8, NORDIOUES 5 Quebec 3 t t-5 New Jersey 1 3 2-6 
Rrst Period-1, Quebec, Sundin 2 (Fogarty), 
4:24 (pp). 2, New Jersey, Boschman t (Kaaatonov, Brown), 5:05. 3, Quebec, Nolan t (Miller, Tatarlnov), t0:53. 4, Quebec, Miller t (Sundin), t7:32. Penalties-5undstrom, NJ (cross-checking). 2:58; Kordic, Que (elbowing), 5:52; McNeill, Que (roughing), 11 :40; Gusarov. Que (holding), 15:48; Stastny, NJ (interference), t6:22. 
Second Period-S, New Jersey, Sundstrom 1, 4:5t (pp). 6, New Jersey, Todd 2 (Stevens, Chorske), tt:o2. 7, New Jersey, Stastny 2 (Stevens), 14:0t (pp). 8, Quebec, Sundin 3 (Fogarty, Smyth), t5:42 (pp). Penalties-Tatarinov, Que (roughing), :57; Vermette, Que (holding), 3:18; Todd, NJ (tripping), 6:50; Nolan, Que (cross­checking), 12:52; Lemieux, NJ (holding), 15:09; Nolan, Que (roughing). t6:42; Chorske, NJ (roughing), 16:42; Smyth, Que (tripping), t8:36. 
Third Perlod-9, Quebec, Paslawski 2 (Tatarinov, Morin), 9:57. 10, New Jersey, Conacher t (Brown, Boachman), t3:t9. tt, New Jersey, Stevens 1 (Driver, Vilgraln), t4:57. Penalties-Sundin, Que (holding),1:0S; Kasatonov, NJ (hooking), 5:31. 
Shots on goal-Quebec t1-4-~4. New Jersey 12-20-tt-43. Power-play OpportunMies-Cuebec 2 of 5; New Jersey 2 of 8. Goalies-Quebec, Tugnutt, t-t-o (43 shots-37 
saves). New Jersey, Terreri, 3-o-0 (24-19). A-t0,237. Referee-lance Roberts. Linesmen-Wayne 
Bonney, Pat Dapuzzo. 

NFL TEAM AND INDIVIDUAL LEADERS 
AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 
OFFENSE  
Yards  Rush  Pass  
Buffalo  2477  no  t707  
Houston  1890  5t3  t377  
Jets  2035  896  1t39  
Denver  2028  73t  t297  
Seattle  19t8  618  t300  
Cincinnati  1549  578  971  
Mlarri  1825  505  t320  
San Diego  1766  920  866  
Pittsburgh  t463  505  958  
Kansas City  t684  795  889  
Raiders  1483  574  909  
Cleveland  1199  413  786  
Indianapolis t407  296  tttt  
New Eng.  t275  5t4  76t  
DEFENSE  
Yards  Rush  Pass  
Cleveland  t357  624  733  
Kansas City  t677  652  t025  
Indianapolis t696  840  856  
seanie  17t8  564  t154  
Jets  1825  504  t32t  
Pittsburgh  1555  508  t047  
Denver  1880  661  t219  
Houston  157t  538  1033  
Raiders  1889  669  t200  
Miami  1970  748  1222  
San Diego  t984  669  t295  
New Eng.  2064  498  t566  
Buffalo  2t02  935  1t67  
Cincinnati  1792  598  1t94  

NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 
OFFENSE 
Yards Rush Pass San Fran. 1832 585 1247 Gian1S 2080 877 1203 Washinglon 20t8 880 1t38 Detroit 20t5 902 1t13 Chicago 1895 599 t296 Dallas 1892 663 t229 NewOrl. 1547 634 913 Atlanta 148t 535 946 Phoenix 17t9 534 1t85 Green Bay 1603 409 tt94 Minnesota t597 662 9t5 ~ 1294 460 834 Tampa Bay 1522 572 950 Philadelphia 1521 469 t052 DEFENSE 
Yards Rush Pass NewOrl. 1053 266 787 Philadelphia 139t 466 923 Washington t398 583 815 Giants t56t 579 982 Detroit t588 52t t067 Atlanta t420 7tt 709 San Fran. t448 563 885 Ram; 
t502 575 927 Tampa Bay t809 765 1044 Green Bay t923 458 t465 Phoenix t934 
810 1124 Chicago t936 736 1200 Danas t937 
508 t429 Minnesota 2055 838 t217 
ALCS GAME 1: TWINS 5, BLUE JAYS 4 
TORONTO IINNESOTA 
ab r h bl ab r h bi While cl 4 t t 0 Gidden I 5 t 2 0 RA1mr2b 4 1 2 0 Knblch 2b 3 t 2 t Canerrf 4 2 2 0 Puckett cl 4 0 0 0 Oierud 1b 4 0 2 2 Hrbek tb 4 0 1 0 Gnzalea1b 0 0 0 0 CDavis dh 2 1 t 2 Gruber 3b 4 0 2 2 Harper c 4 0 2 0 CnMido I 4 0 0 0 Ortiz c 0 0 0 0 Mllniks dh 4 0 0 0 Mack rf 3 1 2 t Brdera c 4 0 0 0 Pglrulo 3b 2 0 0 0 MnLeess 3 0 0 0 Leius 3b t 0 0 0 
Larkin ph 1 0 0 0 Nwman3b 0 0 0 0 Gagness 4 1 t 1 Totals 35 4 9 4 Totals 33 5 t1 5 
Toronto 000 t03 000--4 Minnesota 22t 000 OOx-5 E-Gruber 2 (2), Borders (t). DP-Toronto t. LOB-Toronto 4, Minnesota 8. 28-Carter (t), Harper (t), Mack (t). SB-Gruber (1), Knoblauch 2 (2), CDavla (t), Mack (1). CS--Knoblauch (1), 
Mack (1).  
IP  H  R  ER  
Toronto  
Candiottl L,o-t  2 2-3  8  5  5  
Wells  3  2  0  0  
Timlin  2 1-3  t  0  0  
Mnneeota  
Morris W,t-o  5 t-3  8  4  4  
Willis  2 t-3  0  0  0  
Aguilera S,t  1 t-3  t  0  0  


BB  so  
t 2 t  2 2 2  
0 0 0  4 2 2  

SINCE 1949 

Grill lnlda, Grat IIPVIcl, Grill Prll:a, .-rill AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTALS 
Mon -Thur Elkhart 11-7 pm South Bend 
lffEt1•fil Fri 11-6 pm W1:!:Ji•l fJ 
220 W. Marion Sat 10-4 pm 439 S. Michigan SPECIAUSTS IN GUR"AR & BASS llEPAIIlSI 
SHE'S FINALLY LEGAL!! HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY KIMBERLY TOMKO! 

LOVE, MOM, DAD, JILL, TODD &TOONCES 
Wednesday, October 9, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Team doctor advises serious elbow surgery for Forty-Niners Montana 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Joe Montana has been told by San Francisco 49ers team doctors that he should undergo elbow surgery, but the three-time Super Bowl MVP is still seeking other medical opinions. 
Any surgery would end Montana's 1991 season as well as threaten his career with the 49ers, who have won four Super Bowls with Montana as their quarterback. 
A source close to the 49ers and another source close to Montana said Tuesday that team doctors have recom­mended surgery to repair a torn tendon in his right elbow. 
However, the 35-year-old quarterback was seeking opin­ions from other specialists, one source said. 
"If some other doctor says he doesn't need surgery, he might decide to go with that opinion," the source close to Montana said. "But otherwise, it seems surgery is likely." 
Team officials have viewed surgery as a foregone conclu­sion since Saturday, when Montana experienced a flareup of pain in his elbow during a workout, the San Francisco Chronicle reported Tuesday. 
The physicians consulted by the 49ers and team doctor, Dr. Michael Dillingham, all recom­mended surgery. 
The surgery, which is de­scribed as having an 80 percent success rate, would be the same that ended the career of Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Terry Bradshaw at age 35. 
It would take at least six to eight weeks before Montana 
would be able to begin rehabili­tation, a timetable that would keep him out of action for the remainder of the season. 
Which would turn the ques­tion into 'Will Montana be able to come back at the age of 36 after sitting out an entire sea­son?' The 49ers will give him that chance. 
"We definitely want him back next season," Policy said. 
I need 2 GAs to Pitt! If you want to hey nil **ATIN: NY AND NJ** sell call X1253 Ll Bus wNCR has seats avail. We'll
lass 

INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. also stop in NJ. Lv 10119 rtn10/25 ToM. Good rates. Save Money. Call me only $110. Reserve NOW! Joni continued from page 13 "Your eyes' blue depths are for a quote 9:30-6:00, 3793 Janice 2639 lifted, 289-1993. Office near campus.

THE CONNELLS 

With love and friendship Don't bet with Sara Brann! 
TICKET GIVE AWAY!! 

stirred. She's a sore loser and needs 
Win one pair of tickets to see The 
They smile; and, lost in to be put in her place. Any 
Connells, Thursday night, Oct. 10 
dreaming, LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes volunteers please call x4890. 
at Theodore's. 
I cannot speak a word." every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am. Saxes are stronly encouraged 
HOW? Listen to WVFI 640am 
Love, R. Eastern time. Train and jump the to participate.
Sunday thru Thursday. 

same day. Modern equipment and 
Its just that simple. 

Hey Jen, training programs. Licensed BALLROOM DANCE CLUB The personals have been pretty instructors. FFI call Skydive We will be going to Dan O'Day's quiet lately. So, either you haven't Hastings (616) 948-2665. Ballroom (instead of class) on
Favor Requested and Granted. 
thought of an abusive reply yet, or Thursday, Oct. 10. We will meet at
Say this prayer 9 times per day for 
you're still stretching-which is it? the MAIN CIRCLE at 8:15 pm. 
8 days... it has never been known 
Love, ADOPTION Dress is semi-formal, and the cost 
to fail. Publication must be 
-R-is $3.00 per person. 
promised. May the Sacred Heart of 
Happy, loving couple wishes to
Jesus be adored, glorified, loved 
ARTS AND LETIERS CAREER raise your white newborn with ONLY 2 DAYS UNTIL A 
and preserved throughout the world 
DAY TOMORROW 12-4 P.M., CCE. warmth & love. Can provide PIG'S BIRTHDAY! 
now and forever. Sacred Heart of 
BE THERE! financial security & education.
Jesus pray for us. St. Jude worker 
Medical/legal expenses paid. NEEDED: RIDE TO JERSEY FOR 
of miracles pray for us. St. Jude 
ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER Please answer our prayers by BREAK! HELP ME! X3384 
helper of the hopeless pray for us. 
DAY TOMORROW 12-4 P.M. CCE. calling
Thank you St. Jude, Sacred Heart, 
BE THERE! ARTS AND LETIERS CAREER 
and Mary! JR 
Maureen & Jim DAY TOMORROW 12·4 P.M., CCE. stronger than burt 1-800·456-2656. BE THERE! 
Mike Summerlad is also a ho 
Dear Bo, It's been a long time! !! ! ! !!!! ! ! !!! !! !! ! ! ! !!!! ! ! !!! ! ! !! !! ! ! !!! ! ! ! ! !!! !! !!!! ! ! ! ! !!!!!! I NEED 3 PITI TICKETS!!!!!!! 
PLEASE CONGRATULATIONS TO CALL LilA 283-4825 
THE CAVANAUGH HOOP SQUAD Anyone taking the GRE's in VALPO WINNERS OF THE JUNIOR on Saturday? CLASS 8-BALL TOURNAMENT. call Theresa x2935 

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! My Dearest Smellaroo: !!!!!! ONLY 81 MORE DAYS! 
Doesn't time fly when you're Liza and Monish having fun? Thanks for listening, and listening, Love, J. Kristine and listening ... (STINKHEAD) You guys are the best. Luv, Sluts 
My Dear Molly, 
Dear Ben, Thanks for every1hing! Pretty soon, Thanks for Friday night. Who needs you, too, shall be ·gettin' some!" bud lites anyway? You still owe me Love, Kristin a massage! 
Love, Molly Garth Brooks is a GOD!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Hey Easy-E. Hang in there! Love, Molly and Kristin 

11111 $5oo•••$1 ooo•••$1500 

Accounting Graduates 
Graduate To 
. 

A Higher Level of Learning 
Admit it. You've gotten a taste of how As an Auditor, you'll be exposed knowledge can open doors for you. to virtually every area of the com-
Now meet UJB Financial. We're a pany and discover unlimited oppor­leader in the financial services tunities. And you'll find a spirit of industry, and have been opening collaboration, outstanding training, 
doors, for ....·.··············.· and a commitment
0 n Can1nus 
customers to internal and employees, promotion.
RecrUitfii···.· 
at a very 

There are a rapid pace. lot of reasons 
With unique · oveiD er.< for Accounting foresight and a Graduates to progressive outlook, we're planning learn from UJB Financial. continued growth of our $13 billion Find out all about them, when you in assets. Meet with our auditing join us on Friday, November 15. experts and find out how you can For additional information, be a vital part of it. please contact your Career Center. 

UJB 

FINANCIAL 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN 
FOOLPROOF 
FUNDRAISING 
For your fraternity, sorority, team or other campus organization. 
Absolutely no investment required! 
ACT NOW fOIIHI CIWICI TO WIN l ~~~ CIUI8 lltD FUULOUS 11111111 
CALL 1-800·950-8472, ext. 50 
Put your gift giving rmder wraps ... 
with an Honor Gift from the American Cancer 
Society. 
Easy and c-onvenient to give, simply call or write yom local American Cancer Society. 
The Honor Gift-the gift that gives hope! 
Share in their growth to full manhood 
} 

Society of ~r!~~r-1
African ~ Missions 
If you would like to know about us, contact: 
Fr. Ulick Bourke, SMA SMA Fathers, Dept. NDO 500 Everett Ave., Monterey Park, CA 91754 818-280-6967 
--~-. ~ 
·-----­

page 16 The Observer Wednesday, October 9, 1991 
Twins start series with a win 
I MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -The
i'
.I 
l ~ Minnesota Twins keep winning at the Metrodome -even whend they have to survive their home 
'i., 
I to do it. ·' The Twins won their seventh 
straight postseason game at the ( Dome as Jack Morris escaped a \. I· Toronto comeback to beat the
I; 
Toronto Blue Jays, 5-4 in Game 

I'. 
1 of the American League

I' ( -~ 
playoffs Tuesday night. 

1. 
For two teams that play a lot

' 
of games indoors, it wasn't a very pretty display. There were balls lost in the lights and more than a few misjudged drives to the gaps, The best-of-7 series continues Wednesday afternoon. 
Minnesota, which went from the AL West cellar last season to win the division this year, built an early lead on uncharac­teristic speed and held on with a strong bullpen performance. 
It kept the Twins postseason perfect in the 9-year-old Metrodome. Minnesota's last postseason loss at home was at old Metropolitan Stadium, in the 1970 league playoffs. 
Toronto starter Tom Candiotti was chased after 2 2­3 innings, allowing five runs on eight hits. His knuckleball rarely knuckled and little else

I : 
went right at the start for the

! 
startled Blue Jays, who won 

j : 
I: 
eight of 12 games against the Twins during the regular sea­son -including two of three 
each of the last two weekends of the regular season. 

I! 
The Twins said those games didn't matter and they proved it at the start, at least. 
When the Twins won the World Series in 1987, the noise in the Metrodome was counted among the reason for the first four-game home sweep in Series history. 
The Homer Hankies were out in force again Tuesday and the capacity crowd started raising the noise level to intolerable levels before the game even started. When things got going, Candiotti did nothing to quiet them. 
The Twins scored two runs apiece in the first and second innings and added another in the third. In two starts for the Blue Jays against the Twins during the season, Candiotti gave up four runs on nine hits in 11 2-3 innings. But in his last 14 1-3 innings, he has allowed 19 runs on 24 hits. 
The Blue Jays rallied for three runs on five consecutive singles off Morris in the sixth inning, with John Olerud driv­ing in a run and Kelly Gruber two. The inning was set up when rookie second baseman Chuck Knoblauch lost Roberto Alomar's one-out popup in the lights. 
Morris, 22-5 in the Metrodome, left after Gruber's single and Carl Willis escaped the jam, despite Candy Maldonado's drive to the wall in deep left. For a moment, left fielder Dan Gladden appeared to lose the ball in the dome's lights and roof. 
Willis pitched 2 1-3 hitless innings before Rick Aguilera got the last four outs for the save. 

Gladden, who ended the sea­son in a 26-for-141 slump, led off the Twins first with a single and Knoblauch followed with another single. Gladden moved up on a fly ball and Knoblauch stole second to set up Chili Davis' two-run opposite field single. 
Minnesota's pre-game strat­egy was to hit the ball up the middle against Candiotti. It worked to perfection in the second, when Shane Mack led off with a single off the pitcher's foot. After stealing second and moving to third on a fly ball, Mack scored on Greg Gagne's single up the middle. 
Gladden, who entered the game 3-for-16 lifetime against Candiotti, singled again and Knoblauch followed with a hit­and-run single to score Gagne. 
Davis walked with one out in the third, stole second and scored when right fielder Joe Carter lost Brian Harper's line drive in the marshmallow-like ceiling. 
In the first three innings, the Twins stole four bases. Their single-game high during the season was three. 
Morris got a break in the fourth thanks to Toronto third base coach Rich Hacker. Alomar led off with a single and Carter followed with a double to the gap in right-center field. Hacker sent Alomar home and the relay from Gagne was in time. 
Carter took third on the throw home and scored on Olerud's grounder to second. 
Pirates, Braves prepare for NLCS opener 
tage that the Pirates have been here. A lot of our players have been on pennant winner, in stretch drives, on championship caliber ballclubs." 
There's Lonnie Smith, trying to become the first player to reach the World Series with four teams. There's Sid Bream, who started for Pittsburgh last year, Terry Pendleton and Charlie Leibrandt. 
"A lot of people are saying that we don't seem as excited this year as we were last year," Drabek said. "We are, but the first time we won, we had been together for four years, and we finally did it." 
Since then, the Pirates have lost Bream and shortstop Rafael Belliard to the Braves, 
R.J. Reynolds to Japan, and others. And they're facing the possibility of losing Bobby Bonilla to free agency once this is over. 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Even 

'\ stars can get the shakes in October. Doug Drabek had them last year. Tom Glavine has them now. 
Nothing wrong with that. Who wouldn't before their first really big game? 


"It's natural to feel that way at this time of year," Pirates pitching coach Ray Miller said as Pittsburgh and Atlanta pre­pared for Wednesday night's playoff opener. 
On Tuesday, the teams tried to play down the pressure that will build and build in the next week. 
The Braves say these games are no different than what they went through during their stretch duel with the Los Angeles Dodgers, and there's no reason to doubt them. Glavine, the Game 1 starter, and the rest of the Atlanta pitchers clowned around in practice, seeing who was the worst bunter. 
The Pirates say that last year's playoff experience will help this time. In a relaxed Pittsburgh clubhouse, Andy Van Slyke's main concern was putting up a basketball net, 

Doug Drabek 
vous, that doesn't mean I won't be confident out there," Glavine said. "I'll try to think of it as a parallel to my start in the All­Star game. But this is different. 
"We did expend a lot of en­ergy to get here. I'm sure there are some guys who are happy to be here. That doesn't mean our desire is going to change. We're not finished yet," he said. 
The Braves believe, or at least want to believe, that they have the edge because every game recently has been impor­tant. 
"It's been like being in the playoffs for two months," manager Bobby Cox said. "I don't think it's a huge advan-



SPOR1S SHORTS 
Brits§tffare for sumo wrestlers 
•LON 0 :_ The Royal Albert Hall has a rich history. 
Wagner conducted his music there. The world's first gramophone concert was heard in 1906 and Queen Elizabeth II held her coronation ball there. 
On Wednesday. the elegant hall facing Hyde Park will reverberate with the grunts ofsumo wrestlers. 
The tournament, part of the Japan Festival. is the first outside Japan in the sport's 1.500-year history. There have been exhibition matches in other countries, but this is the first series of competitive bouts. 
The tournament has taken three years and $3.5 million to organize. The money has paid for_. among·other things.~ reinforcing the Albert Hall floor, weight-testing the bathrooms at the hotel where the wrestlers are staying and building a special ring where the matches will be fought. 
The 40-ton clay"dohyo," must withstand the impact of more thanJiOO pounds ... ..• .·· . . . ...· . . . . . ··.. . 
The biggest impact could come from the heaviest wrestler .....,. Hawaiian-born Konishiki~ known as "The Dumptruck." He. 512 poun(}s. about 2()0 pounds more than William "The Fridge" Perry ofthe. Chicago Bears. 
rna.1m..... •··•·· •. ··• .. . . .· .•·.. ... ·•· ·. ··• .. afte:r a long ~Xile.. . . . ,•
· H . •· ..••... 
...••..•·.. ·. •· · · ·. . . • ...•.·• · . Bland and Davi(i . . . •.• •. · · · .. ·. the ·.• ·. African team for the Dun hill Cup starting Thursday at. the CoW"~'i . ;L ' '? ·. . . i'W:.,,,~· v ? iii ·.·. .· . .r;
South Africa/was a·Jatel'eplaeement for Japan; which·· 
couldn't field a strong enough team this year because most of 
its toP golfers are. playing in the Japan Open thisweek. >H@ 
Dunhill Cup organizers said South Africa was allowed in 
because of the abolition of apartheid laws, the. multi-racial 
composition of.the South Afriean PGA and the relaxation of 
international sanctions. . 
Itbas been a~Jeast 10 years since a South Afric:;an~te~m . ·competed in an international golf tournament, PGA officials ·said. 


St. Edward•s Hall Players Organizational Meeting Thursday, Oct. 10th, 7:00PM 1st Floor Lounge (St. Ed•s) 
* We are especially looking for people for Assistant Director, 
Stage Manager, Props +Set Construction 
$1 off Any Burger Combo $1 off with Coupon 
Live Bands Coming Nov lsi Tbur • Sun Molly Hatchel 
ef'Halloween 

Specials every 
Costume Party nite on food Oct 31st 
1516 N. Ironwood
and beverage Cash Prizes 
$1 off Any Burger Combo $1 off 
Owned and Operated by NO Alumni 
I 
-
I 
} 
I I 
of the month. Drabek admits it wasn't so easy for him a year ago. 
After going 22-6 in a season that won him the Cy Young Award, he was picked to start Game 2. Drabek gave up a run in the first inning, and wound up losing to Cincinnati 2-1. 
"The first part of the game, I was just so anxious to get in 

-. J there. I was rushing," Drabek sa1d. "What I've learned is how to prepare, not to let all the stuff get to you. Just put it aside, like it's another game, even though you know it's not." 
Glavine, a 20-game winner this season, doesn't try to hide how he feels. 

Come buy her a shot at Bridget's October 9 and watch the #llush go down in a big way! 
Suck it up Megan Fannon! 
Happy 21st Birthday!! 
Love, All the Girls at Holy Cross & Off Campus! 
"Because I'm a little ner-~ry_~~~~6~~YI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

. I 
. . . ., ' .-.,
• ~ • ~ ".. -' -l • 

Wednesday, October 9, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Boston's Morgan latest manager to fall prey to firing trend in majors 
BOSTON (AP} -While other manager's jobs were in danger, most people thought Boston's Joe Morgan was safe. Now he's out, too. 
In a surprising move, the Red Sox fired Morgan on Tuesday and replaced him with former Boston third baseman Butch Hobson. 
"Butch is highly thought of throughout baseball and we just felt that he's the man for us," Red Sox general manager Lou Gorman said. "Everyone looks for scapegoats, but we're not blaming Joe Morgan for not winning." 
Morgan led Boston to AL East titles in 1988 and 1990, but failed to come through this year. The Red Sox dropped 11 1/2 games out on Aug. 7, then closed within a half-game of di-
The Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism 
invites you to attend its annual Hibernian Lecture 
"A SPORTING PEOPLE: THE CULTURE OF IRISH AMERICAN SPORTS" 
Professor Randy Roberts 
Thursday, October 10, 1991 
,IdfL 4:15P.M. ;:::::1 Hesburgh library Lounge Unlverslt of Notre Dame 
vision·leading Toronto on Sept. 
21. But Boston lost 11 of its last 14 and finished seven games back, in a second-place tie with Detroit at 84-78. 
"Joe took the news like the pro he is," Gorman said. "He understands. He just said, 'That's your decision to make.' Joe did an excellent job, but if we didn't make the move, we would have risked losing Butch." 
Morgan, who will be 61 on Nov. 16, replaced John McNamara on July 14, 1988, with the team 9 1/2 games out of first. Boston rallied to win the division, but were swept by Oakland in the AL playoffs. The Red Sox slipped to third with an 83-79 record in 1989, then won the division in 1990 at 88-7 4 only to be swept by Oakland again. 
Boston was 301-262 under Morgan, the eighth Red Sox manager to win 300 games. He has one year remaining on his contract at approximately $375,000 and was offered a job as special assistant for major league scouting. 
Morgan said he went to Fenway Park to discuss the fu­ture of his five coaches and in­stead was told he had been fired. 
"Sure, I was surprised," Morgan said, adding that he thinks he has done a good job. 
Then he reiterated what he said last weekend when asked whether the Red Sox would al­low him to keep all five coaches. 
"They pay the bills, they do what they want and that's the 
The Bengals defense isn't celebrating the loss of inside linebacker Kevin Walker. Walker injured his knee against the Seahawks last Sunday. 
Please Support the American Red Cross 
Please Recycle Newspaper, aluminum, and glass can all be recycled. Please use the recycling bins in the dining halls and dormitories.  
MANDATORY BE PREPARED TO BE IMPRESSED! WED: PENNY CUP NIGHT THURS: $1.00 TEAS FRIISAT: $.75 SPECIALS WED:WVFI DJ, TIM MCADAM Stlldlum 0 .u.cc 00 ...AND WE.LL ~CLEAN THE FLOORIEXIT! Mlstulwaka Ave. •.., ----------~--~ ~ <• 1150 Mish6W6k6 Ave. South Bend, IN 288-0285  


....119
.... 
: -.__ __,_,_: .
-.··· .. ·····.. _._·.·.t. 
·:_ _· ".-.:~--.. 
AP Photo 

way it should be," he said. 
Morgan also said he consid­ers Hobson "a good man" and he felt that "he'd come up sooner or later." 
Other than a desire to take a little rest after a hectic season, Morgan said he wanted to wait a while before deciding his fu­ture plans. 
Hobson, who signed a 2-year contract, was chosen Class AAA Manager of the Year after leading Pawtucket to a 79-64 record and the International League East Division title. The PawSox, weakened after Phil Plantier, Mo Vaughn, Kevin Morton and Mike Gardiner were brought up to the majors, lost to Columbus in the Triple A Alliance playoffs. 
Hobson managed Boston's Class AA New Britain team in 
Bengals take loss of Walker in stride 
CINCINNATI (AP} -The 
Cincinnati Bengals don't plan 
any major defensive changes to 
cover up for the loss of inside 
linebacker Kevin Walker. 
Walker will have surgery in the next few weeks to repair a torn ligament in his right knee. The fourth-year player caught his cleats in the artificial turf last Sunday during a 13-7 loss to the Seattle Seahawks at Riverfront Stadium. 
The InJury leaves the Bengals (0-5} with another major weakness on defense. They're already thin at defensive back with Mitchell Price sidelined by injury and Carl Carter claimed off waivers by Tampa Bay. 
The Bengals have little depth at Walker's spot. Eight-year veteran Leo Barker, who was cut during training camp and later reclaimed, will become the starter. 
The Bengals' run defense has improved slightly the last couple games, but their pass rush and pass defense remain weak spots. They've given up the second-most points in the league. 
Defensive coordinator Dick LeBeau ruled out any signifi­cant changes. The Bengals have been using a three-lineman, four-linebacker formation as their primary alignment, and LeBeau said he's not inclined to switch to a four-lineman, three­linebacker approach. 
"We just came off our best defensive game around here in years as far as stopping the run and everything else, so we're not going to be changing any 
Only you can stop forest fires 
1989 and 1990 after two years as manager of the New York Mets' team in the South Atlantic League. 
''I'd be lying if I said that I never dreamt of managing in the big leagues, hopefully Boston," Hobson said. "I just got here a little quicker than I thought I would. It's a big thrill and I promise to give 110 per cent." 
Hobson, 40, played for the Red Sox from 1975 through 1980, then finished his big league career with one season in California and another with the New York Yankees. 
He hit .248 in eight seasons with 98 homers and 397 RBis. His best year was 1977, when he hit .265 with 30 homers and 112 RBis. But he also led the AL that year with 162 strikeouts. 
alignments," he said. "We'll be 
all right with what we've got 
here." 
The Bengals' next three 
games are on the road against 
Dallas, Buffalo and Houston. 
Walker's strength was at stopping the run, one of the Bengals' biggest weaknesses the last few years. Barker is 14 pounds lighter than Walker and not as good at making plays on running backs, the reason he was expendable during training camp. 
Bernard Clark had been Walker's backup until last month, when he, too, was lost through waivers. 
Now, Walker will be out for at least the rest of this season. 
His injury initially was de­scribed as a severe sprain, but medical tests performed Monday found a torn ligament that will require surgery. Walker also had surgery for a torn ligament in his other knee midway through the 1988 sea­son. 
"It's very rare for a guy to come back to what he was from two such operations," team Dr. Robert Heidt Jr. said. "But if anyone can, it's Kevin. He did it once. He's one of the hardest workers I know." 
Players usually need six to nine months of rehabilitation for such an injury. 
"I've never heard of a guy getting hit with this on both knees," general manager Mike Brown said. "And he's got to be wondering about the justice of it all. It's a tough break: a tough break for the team, but mostly a tough break for him." 
Read John O'Brien's column every third Wednesday in Accent. 
Nece••llrY R~ (PG-13) 
:!":!5 7:00 9·15 Deeelv.d (PG-13) 
1:30 z.J5 11:3(] The Reher Klntl (R) 5:00 8:00 
Wednesday, October 9, 1991

page 18 The Observer 
SPORlS BRIEFS
Dre~m still alive for US volleyball 
dence and go for it, and if we bouncing into the third row.
By RENE FERRAN 

play like that, we should win." "We're trying to make volley­
•Notre Dame Rowing Club: Attention varsity rowers,
Associate Sports Editor 

"When you compete at this ball more popular in this coun­There will be an important meeting concerning fall break onlevel, you have to believe that try," Cross-Battle explained. 
Thursday, October 10 at 7:00 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. Vanyou're going to win every time "We want people to come outRepresenting your country in assignments and the trip cost will be given.
go on court," and watch because volleyball isvolleyball is not an easy honor you out the 
agreed Janet Cobbs, the only a great sport, and people just
to achieve. 

member of the travelling squad don't realize it until they get a 
•The YMCA-South Bend table tennis club is announcing
You play throughout high 

not from California (she hails chance to see us. I don't thinkschool and college in relative its winter league. Anyone intersted in forming a three-manfrom Saint Paul, Minnesota). "If they kn~w that at this level,anonymity compared to your team from Notre Dame, to compete for $700 in prizes, call Brad we perform like we're capable volleyball can be very exciting." 
counterparts in basketball, 

at 654-8345.
of, we'll be just fine." Although volleyball may notfootball, or track. If you're good 
attract much attention in thisenough (and lucky enough) to 
Tuesday night's match was country, around the world, it is 
•SMCVarsity track meeting for all interested participants
get noticed, you are given an not significant in terms of win­the second-most popular sport will be Wednesday, October 9 at 8 p.m. at the Angela Athletic 

opportunity to tryout against ning or losing, but it instead behind soccer. While the U.S.

the best in the country. 

Facility.
had greater importance. The team has to work to build its
From there, it's on to another crowd of around 2,000 oohed fan base at home, when it trav­

series of tryouts-this time, by 

•RecSports meeting: A meeting will be held for all captainsand aahed at the power-hitting els to distant lands, they are theinvitation only. And perhaps, at for men's interhall volleyball on October 10 at 4 p.m., womensdisplay from Cross-Battle and biggest show in town. 
long last, your dream is 

interhall volleyball at 4:30 p.m., co-ree basketball at 5 p.m.,
Teee Sanders, who were set up "You're treated like aachieved. You are one of the se­
marvelously by Yoko celebrity," said Cross-Battle. 
refs for basketball at 5:30 p.m. All these meetings will be in thelect few, a member of the U.S. 
Zetterlund. Her sets would "All the fans come out and sup­
football auditorium. hang in the air, just begging to port you. It's just a great feel­
National Team. 
Only 18 players make the be killed, and Cross-Battle, ing."

squad-and of those 18, just 12 

•Walk-on tryouts for the NO baskteball team will be held
Sanders and company were The U.S. won last night's
travel to international meets. · 

onTuesday,October 15 from 7 to 9 p.m. in the J.A.C.C. All areonly too happy to oblige. match in five games: 15-17,15­
This alone should say some­

welcome.
But the crowd also was enter­9, 15-11, 14-16, 15-12. But,
I thing of the character of the who's really keeping score
athletes on display last night at tained by a Japanese team
! world-renowned for its defense. when you're chasing down a
I 
I the Joyce ACC, when the U.S. 
•Water Polo Club dues must be paid by Thursday, October 
One point in the first game dream.
J squared off against Japan in 
17. Each member attending the pre-game barbecue on
summarized the styles of the "The Olympics and a gold
' the third of a five-match tour of Saturday must pay Butch or Rock $5 by this Saturday.
I\ . two teams perfectly. Twice, medal. That's why I work so
the Midwest. 

! "It's a great bunch of Cross-Battle smashed seemingly hard," explained Cross-Battle. women," said team member unreturnable kills, only to have "It's my ultimate goal. And as •SMC Varsity Basketball tryouts will be October 15, from a sprawling Kazumi Nakamura long as we know in our hearts
Tara Cross-Battle. "With all the 6-8 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 
dig them out of nowhere. that we're a great team and can
different personalities on the 

Finally, Cross-Battle had beat anyone out there, then it's
team, we still mesh pretty well enough-the ball was last seen a real possibility."

together. We're like a big fam­ily, and I know that if I'm ever in trouble, the team will be right behind me." 


The American team is using this tour to prepare for the World Cup tournament in Japan November 8-17, its final opportunity to qualify for the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona. Although the U.S. is ranked third in the world and is con­sidered one of the strongest medal contenders, if it does not come through in November, it's more than just wait 'til next year. It's wait 'til 1996. 
"It would be a big disap­pointment, staying on for three, four years, and not make it," 

!{ said team captain Tammy Liley, 
! a veteran of the 1988 Olympic squad. "It would be real hard to watch the games on TV. "There's a lot of pressure on 
BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE
us, definitely, but we have nothing to lose. We just need to go out and play as hard as we 

TO ANY COMP~ ASK FOR 
can, and if we play great and lose, that's all we can do. I don't want to go in and be ten­

SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. 
tative and play scared-we won't play well that way. We need to just play with confi­

yo
u put more than just your savings 2,200 nationwide, that received these into a retirement company. You put highest marks.
WaiSh downs OC 

in your trust and hopes for the future, 
CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 

too. So before you choose one, ask some EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. Sports Writer 
questions. How stable is the company? 
For further growth potential and diversi­How solid are its investments? How sound 
fication, there's the CREF variable annuity The Walsh women's interhall 
is its overaH fmancial health? 
with four different investment accounts to football team defeated Off­
A good place to start looking for answers 
give you the flexibility you want as you
Campus 16-6 for their second 

is in the ratings of independent analysts. 
save for the future.
consecutive win and raised 

Three companies, all widely recognized 
Together, TIAA and CREF form the Walsh got started on the right 
their record to 3-1. 


resources for fmding out how strong a 
nation's largest private retirement system, foot by marching downfield on 
fmancial services company reaHy is, gave 
with over $95 billion in assets and more the opening drive of the game 
TIAA their top grade. than 70 years ofexperience serving the
and scoring. Terry Castelucci 

IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA education community. For over one million
scored on a fifteen yard run. On 

IS LETTER-PERFECT. 
people nationwide, the only letters to quarterback Jeanine Trevant 
the 2-point conversion, Walsh 

remember are TIAA-CREF.
TIAA received A+ from A.M. Best Co., 
passed over the defense of Off 
AAA from Standard & Poor's and Aaa I -------------&,•" ..n !114i\t'

Campus to Uz Toohey. Later in the half, Walshite 

from Moody's Investors Service. These SEND NOW FORA FREE ~"1 l'lffiSOl'l'<'}) ~J Julie Morris intercepted a pass 
ratings reflect TIAA's reliable daims-paying ~ETIREMENT INVEST~NT KIT,.~ t':~:.._~ k 
mcludmg a Spawl Rrprwl on TIAA onvestments. 
· 
on Off-Campus' 20 yard line 

ability, exceptional fin.ancialstrensth, 
Mail this coupon t·.: TIAA·CRJ:F. Dept. QC.
and ran it in for the touchdown. 

superior investment perfonnance, and low 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017. Or call
Trevant ran in the 2-point 

1 800-842-2733, Ext. 8016.
expenses. With its guaranteed rate ofreturn
conversion to make the score 
/

and opportunity for dividends, TIAA is Namr ( Plea.~e print)
16-0 at the half. Off-Campus made a come­

one ofless than ten companies, out of back attempt in the second half when their quarterback com­
I 
. 
Cit_v
pleted a 20-yard pass in the 
endzone. The 2-point conver­


hutitutrion(Full name) 
sion failed. Unfortunately, Off­

Ensuring the future 
Titlr
Campus was unable to put any 

for those who shape it:'"

--_I­
!( . more points on the board in the 
TIAA·CRf."1" Part,.·ipanl 

game. · 

0 ~JON,
!' 
In their last contest against 
CN

i; 
B.P., Walsh won 14-8. 

I .
I. 

Wednesday, October 9, 1991 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS I 
SPB.UNCER JAY HOSLER 
Wednesday 

s,q~ llANI(,r .jusr a,or I'M AFKAID NOf. rr NO,No,NO,HANI\. r 12:15 p.m. "The Eucharist: Real or Symbol," Beth 
c: EM5 SH!i:'S /NTO DIDI'I'I MEAN ;roc.t< ,
TH£ L.oW·oowN oN _,E. :rou·s .,5 JN AfHLETG. Newman, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Marys YoliR SYR BLIHO Dtlie " n 
College. 
r;;:;;) 12:15 p.m. Understanding and Managing Family Re-
THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON 
'--( sources, "Insurance Review and Evaluation," Joyce Wegs, Room 121, Hayes-Healy. 6 p.m. Presentation/Reception for all Accountancy, Fi­nance, and MBA students interested in discovering career 


m. 
LaFortune. 

DO · lr20f' 7 p.m. Presentation/Reception for CAPP, MIS, MCC, Fi­~ nance, Accountancy, A&L, Math, and E&CE students in­~========~.!=======:~:====:::== terested in discovering career opportunities with the 
r 
Traveler's Insurance Company. Upper lounge, University Y'KNOIJ •TH£ ONLY Club. NO. :r HfANi' JOG!( A-S THINC.S MISS/Nla FRt:lf\1 7 p.m. Testing and Grading; NO-Biological Sciences, IN STRftP. SHE: LIKES UF£ ARE A Professor Linda Hunt, 184 Nieuwland. 
TO v.Jf I+R. 'fM. LIWU!H TRACK AND 
8:10 p.m. "The Crucible." Directed by Father Arthur
SILLY 11f£f\'\E MVSIC.. 

Harvey, Washington Hall. 
LECTURE 

Wednesday 
i~l~ STRiP • • . B '1' u d 
coqLD r..s~' A 3:30 p.m. Lecture: "Bubble Dynamics m 01 mg n er L•t~ 6 YRAc.k High Heat Flux Pulse Heating," Dr. Akira Asai, Canon, ~ Inc. Japan, Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. ) 4:15 p.m. Lecture: "Religion, Nationalism & ( Democracy," Conor Cruise O'Brien, University of Dublin. 1 Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. 
4:20 p.m. Lecture: "The Quantum Vacuum," Peter ~ Milonni, professor, Los Alamos National Lab, Room 118, 
At the monthly meeting of Squid heads Anonymous 
L-------------------~~ Nieuwland Science Hall. 
MENU Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
CROSSWORD 

~Edward Julius Collegiate CW8704 
29 Military gestures 56 Brownish pigmentsACROSS 31 Soils 
57 Know the ­
32 Greek statesman 58 Gives a signal1-paper 34 Greek island 6 Cut 36 Leveling devices DOWN 
11 String of beads 39 Baseball MVP of 13 Berated 1961 1 Polishing cloth 
15 Ital ian food 40-forma 2 Old Italian capital16 "60 Minutes" host 41 Piano seat 3 Prefix for gram or 17 Linguistics suffix 43 Mr. Kazan graph
18 Cotton cloth 44 Coffin stands 4 Drop into water 20 Part of BMOC 46 Well-known elec-5 lamprey fisherman 
21 Time periods tronics company 6 like a snake 23 Tennis term 47-ear 7 Prison section 
24 Slang for fires 48 Exchanged words 8 Building wing25 The Flintstones' 50 Wide's partner 9 Unyieldingpet, et al. 51 Bowling ball 10 Takes back, as a 
27 Statement term material statement 28 Baseball hall-of­53 Scholarly 11 Belief farner, -Irvin 55 Periods of time 
12 Angry outbursts 13 low, wet land 14 Stupid 19 Grouped closely 22 Hospital con­
valescence rooms 24 Supporting under­
garments 26 Hangs ten 28 Ways of conducting
oneself 30 God of the sky 31 Ike's initials 33 Piano keys34 Quality 35 South American 
river 37 -nail 38 Musical pieces 39 Distributed 40 Forest inventory42 Ancient harps 44 College in Maine 45 Type style 48 -one's time 49 Formal fight52 Siesta 54 Short for Deoxy­
ribonucleic acid 
Chicken Fried Steak Philly Sandwich Spaghetti & Meatballs Deli Bar Bean Burritos 
Cheese Enchiladas Bkd New Zealand Whiting Batter Fried Fish 
COUNSELOR'S CORNER 
Dear Counselor, 
Towards the end of last year, I had been dating someone on a 
regular basis. We had talked about the prospect of continuing our 
relationship again during the following fall. We even 
corresponded with one another during the summer. However, 
upon our return to school I noticed that something had changed. 
I've confronted him with this problem and I've received no 
feedback whatsoever. There seems to be a severe lack of 
communication though I know not how to resolve this. How do I 
go about interpreting these actions? Is this a sign of disinterest? 
Is it too soon to tell? 
Lou's Enz 
Dear Lou, 
Floating in the breeze is tough. It sounds like you've been 
steadily building some hopes for this semester, with visions of 
togetherness dancing in your head. It seems natural, when being 
together is going well, to imagine more good times ahead. 
The problem with relationships is that they seem to take two 
people to keep them going. For those of us who like being in 
charge the throat panic of wondering if maybe he is wanting to 
slow down or even walk away has made for many second guesses 
and self doubts. 
But look, Lou, before your mind begins spinning with alternative 
hypotheses and possible scenarios, consider: 1) Checking in with 
..

this friend on the status of your relationship is your perfect right. It is O.K. to ask about the pace of things or the nature of his feelings. 2) Staying in the dark is likely to lead to lots of confusing future interactions. Unfortmiately, you can't read all of his nonverbal signals (like silence), and it really isn't your responsibility, And 3) he may be unsure of his intentions about future dating, but you're not in charge of his protection (by waiting until he's ready to talk). If relationships are like dancing, then your responsibility is to avoid getting your toes smashed while enjoying the music. If this guy seems to have stopped dancing, maybe it's time to be persistent and get some feedback. 
Please submit letters to Counselor's Corner c/o The Observer. 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556. All responses are from the counselors at the University 
Counseling Center. 


Don't miss JOE CLARK 
8:00 & 

"Fight One More Round" Thursday, October 10 
•
7:00PM Stepan Center 8:00 & Admission $3.00 for Students/ $5.00 for Non-Students Tickets available at Lafortune Info Desk (The man whose story was depicted in LEAN ON ME) 

~....,.----...,..-'"!"""'----.._--------------------:--------....c-.
IF( 
' 

Sports 
page 20 Wednesday, October 9, 1991 
Men's soccer meets Valparaiso today Irish freshmen will be key to fourth straight victory 

By JASON KELLY 
on their scoring opportunities, 
Sports Writer which they failed to do in the early part of the season. Fourteen goals in three games, 
A four-game road trip comes including an 8-0 triumph over to an end tonight at Valparaiso Xavier have given the Irish a lot 
;I 

I j ~ as the Notre Dame men's soc­of confidence offensively. . i cer team looks for their fourth "We stressed defense at the 
I . 
consecutive victory. beginning of training camp, 
I 
l 
As the Irish began their cur­and later on we started to work 
I 

rent road trip, they knew that on our goal scoring," Dillman the talented freshmen would noted. "That's usually the last have to mature quickly if the thing that comes together when
Jean Joseph


Irish hoped to be successful. a team is playing together for Freshman forward Jean the first time." 
the Irish were winless away
Joseph and the rest of the Irish 

from home, but so far this sea­Now that they have been rookies have shown that they son their road record stands at playing together for half the 
have the maturity needed to an impressive 3-1. season, the team is learning handle the adversity they face what to expect from each other
"This year we're as comfort­
on the road. able on the road as we are at on the field, which is a benefit In wins over Midwestern home," said junior Brendan both offensively and defen­
Collegiate Conference rivals 

Dillman. ..We expect to win ev­sively.
Detroit, Xavier and Dayton, the 

ery game no matter where we They will be tested on both freshmen have collected eight play." sides of the ball in tonight'sof Notre Dame's 14 goals, in­non-conference at
With each game, the team is match cluding Joseph's hat trick gaining confidence and their Valparaiso. Brian Thiel, the against Dayton, which helped record is improving as a result. Crusaders top returning scorer 
the Irish escape with a 3-2 de­The Irish enter tonight's game after his 26 point performance cision. 

with a 5-3-1 overall record and last season, will be the focal Despite missing the first five a 3-1-1 conference mark. point of the Irish defense along games of the season with a leg with Chris Kanagy, who col­
"Our attitude is the main dif­
injury, Joseph collected his lected 10 points in 1990. 
ference," Dillman commented. 1Oth point at Dayton to take "We didn't have as much confi­The conference race will heat 
over the team lead. dence in ourselves last year." up again Sunday when Butler 
The real story, however, is the The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Another difference is that the visits South Bend looking to 
turnaround the team has Junior Kevin Pendergast, shown here against Evansville, will be an
Irish are beginning to capitalize knock off the streaking Irish. 
shown on the road. In 1990, important part of the Irish offense as they face Valparaiso today 
Notre Dame volleyball defeats a tough Valparaiso squad in three-set match 
By DAN PIER Irish proved they were glad to The win was satisfying in particular, played uptight." "Cynthia hit effectively and Sports Writer be home by storming to a 13-4 many ways for the Irish, but played a good all-around lead in game one. Middle they still need to fight the nega­Despite that, Notre Dame match. . ~ blocker Cynthia May led the tive effects from their recent dominated statistically as well 
~ Winning is always nice when 
charge with six kills. slide. as in the score. The Irish Brown was also impressed
' a team has had a difficult 
racked up 57 kills, compared to with the large crowd, gathered
streak, but it means even more

~ when that streak ends with a Notre Dame dominated game "We had two primary objec­just 32 for the Crusaders. for a doubleheader which fea­two as well, building a 12-3 tives tonight," said Irish head Hitter Marilyn Cragin led the tured the American and
'[.:,( bang. 
. i { lead with a balanced attack coach Debbie Brown. "The first team with 15, while May added Japanese national teams in the -; ~· featuring outside hitters Christy was to make sure that we 10. Karlan assisted 38 of Notre second game. 
I} The Notre Dame volleyball 
Peters and Chris Choquette. outhustled and outscrapped Dame's kills. 
i: team did just that last night by 
Valparaiso on defense. I think "I expected a big crowd fordefeating Valparaiso convinc­
j~ 
Valparaiso regrouped in game we accomplished that". Brown cited the play of Peters the U. S.," she said, "and I wasingly, 15-7, 15-9, 15-10. The 
three. The Crusaders trailed and May as instrumental in the happy to see that a lot of people victory was just the second in only 9-8 until Notre Dame "Secondly, we wanted to stay rout. came early for our match."
j -. 
.. ! Notre Dame's last seven 
~ l'r 
setter Janelle Karlan served relaxed and focused. We still Those fans were happy to seematches. 
! ·~ . 
i: four straight points to put the need to work on that. The "Christy continues to be very Notre Dame end their streak ;p match away. team, and a couple of players in good defensively," she added. and, hopefully, begin a new one.
After five road games, the 

}f Belles soccer back on track 
it By JULIE SCULLY Butler. Saint Mary's was de­Sports Writer feated Friday by the Panthers ) 3-0 on its home turf. The sec­
! 1 
ond loss occurred Sunday in The Saint Mary's soccer team Indianapolis as a stingy Butler 
defeated the University of defense again kept the Belles Chicago by the decisive score of from finding the back of the 4-0 yesterday evening at net, as the team was shut out Chicago. by the Bulldogs 4-0. 
{! Senior Megan Dalsaso con­"The two teams tested our) . tinues to be an important ele­skills, while at the same time .. ment in the Belles' attack, reinforced the fact that we still scoring three of their four have a lot of work to do if we 
B 
goals. Two of her ·goals were hope to beat any of the Division unassisted, while the other I teams," senior captain Greer came off a beautiful feed by Gilliland said. 
l 
}f i ' 
Kelly Cook. Senior Stacy Winget 
~~ 
tacked on the fourth goal, Thus, yesterday's win was keyH which was assisted by Jennifer in keeping alive Saint Mary's (6­Ferry. 2-2) hopes of earning a first­J! ever bid into the NCAA Divisionlf Yesterday's match was played III playoffs. As well, it revived as much against the elements the team's spirts heading intoH as it was against the University Friday's matchup with Albion
ii. 
: ~· of Chicago. According to Saint College
r I Mary's coach Tom Van Meter, it
d 
II 
was very windy, making the win "It was a good, solid win,"~ f that much harder to obtain. Maura Sullivan, one of the six freshman on the team, said. "It 
"The team had a very strong proved to us that we can 
second half," Van Meter stated. bounce back from this week­"The win was much needed end's losses." 
[Ih. 
after our two losses over the weekend. We needed to get The Belles an• ranked fourth
~~ 
f ;.l 
back on the winning track." in the Great Lakes Region, j f, which consists of approximately
; I ~ L The games over the weekend 25 teams. They also have 
! c The Saint Mary's soccer team defeated UIC yesterday with the help of junior forward Stacy Winget, who 
consisted of losses to received consideration for the
scored the final goal in a 4-0 victory. 
j ;' Wisconsin-Milwaukee and national Division III poll.
I : 

j: ' 
J' 
:! 

•JOY•HOPE• 

Wednesday, October 9, 1991 
his year marks the 150th anniversary of the founding of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. The Sisters of the Holy Cross are uniting throughout the world in worship and gratitude for the work they are able to perform for others. . 
According to sponsors, all Sesquicentennial events are focusing on 
the theme, "Thanksgiving, Joy, Hope." The logo also conveys the charism of the Congregation: a straightforward, bright, celebration of past, present and future-all held together by the Cross. 
Top photo: Sisters of the Holy Cross fish on the banks of the St. Joseph River behind Saint Mary's college in the early years. (Photo courtesy of Community Archives.) 
Above: Mother M. Angela Gillespie, C.S.C., president of Saint Mary's Academy, 1855­1887. (Photo courtesy of College Archives) 
Right: Sister Mary Brassil, director of Campus Ministry, right, assists Jennifer Lackey prepare for mass. (The Observer/Marguerite Schropp) 
150 years of Devotion 
Wednesday, October 9, 1991 
Education was early mission of Holy Cross Sisters 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
While the Holy Cross Sisters initially began as an order to clean, cook and perform other other household tasks for the Holy Cross priest, their mission changed and soon their central focus was on the education of young women. 
One hundred and fifty years later, the congregation contin­ues to educate and serve throughout the world and in South Bend. Although the sis­ters span across the globe, one of the largest thriving commu­nities exists here and is the source of a large amount of history for the Holy Cross fam­ily. 
When Father Basil Moreau founded the Brothers of Saint Joseph-later to become known as the Fathers and Brothers of Holy Cross-and later a male residence school in LeMans, France, there arose a need for sisters. 
Moreau believed that even the care of the kitchen, infirmary, dairy and sewing room should be sanctifying. After unsuccessfully applying to two established congregations, he formed an order of his own. 
Though Moreau met with op­position by the bishop, with much determination he was able to establish an order. The first four candidates entered the convent of the Good Shepherd at LeMans, and four months later, on Aug. 4, 1841, they received their religious habits and names. 
Until their constitution and rules were formulated and ap­proved in Rome, the Marianite Sisters of the Holy Cross lived under the rules that governed the sisters of Good Shepherd. 
When word was received that Moreau had founded a congregation, he received appeals for priest, brothers and sisters in France, and many other countries throughout the world. The 


most persistent appeal came from Bishop Celestine de Ia Hailandiere of Vincennes, Ind. 
Father Edward Sorin was sent along with five other brothers. Two hundred miles from Vincennes, the missionar­ies founded Notre Dame du Lac. 
Once there, the brothers saw a need for sisters. In a letter from Sarin to Moreau on Dec. 5, 1842, Sorin filed an appeal for members of the Sisters of the Holy Cross to travel to America: "Once the sisters ar­rive-and their presence is ar­dently desired-they must be prepared not merely to look after the laundry and the infir­mary, but also to conduct a school, perhaps even a board­ing school." 
On May 30, 1843, after a forty day voyage, Sorin's plea was answered with the arrival of three priests, a brother, and four sisters from France. 
The first four sisters of the Holy Cross to arrive in 
America-Sisters Mary of Calvary. Mary of the Heart of Jesus. Mary of Nazareth and Mary of Bethlehem-were tem­porarily housed in an old log cabin until a loft could be added to the log chapel where they were to live. The accom­modations were humble, but they soon began mending clothing and performing other household tasks. 
With the arrival of three more sisters from France, the sisters began to learn English in preparation for the opening of schools. Meanwhile, they received three American postulants to the order. 
Because of the slow travel of communication between Notre Dame and France, Sorin took command of the order at Notre Dame and began plans for the education of women. 
When more young women requested to join the order, the second story loft became inad­equate to house all of the sis­ters and the aspiring candi­dates. 
Sorin asked the Bishop for permission to establish a novi­tiate at Notre Dame. His re­quest was refused due to the fact that the Sisters of Providence had already estab­lished a novitiate in Terre Haute, and he viewed the 
population  of  Indiana  too  
sparse  to  incorporate  two  
orders of sisters.  

The solution was the estab­lishment of the order six miles away in Bertrand, Mich. 
In 1848, the Sisters estab­lished Our Lady of Seven Dolors, and four years later changed the name to Saint Mary's Academy. The school began to flourish. What the school and the Sisters of the Holy Cross were lacking, ac­cording to Sorin, was an American leader. His request was answered when Eliza Gillespie decided to enter the congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
On April 17, 1853, the feast of St. Joseph, Gillespie received her religious habit and name-Sister Mary of Saint Angela. She received her novitiate in France. On Dec. 24, 1853, she received her perpetual vows and her assignment as the directress of Saint Mary's Academy. 
In 1855, the Academy was moved from Bertrand to the present site of Saint Mary's College. The new site provided for more growth, so that the sisters could educate the grow­ing enrollment of ·young women. 
"In the early years up to 1862 property was held in common by priests, brothers, sisters." according to Saint Mary's Charter Book. This connection led to an unequal of sharing of money until 1862, when the severing of the orders finances occurred due to a mandate in Rome. 
With the onset of the Civil War, Mother Angela and six sisters volunteered to provide nursing service to answer a re­quest from General Grant and President Lincoln. 
Serving on the Red Rover, the Sisters were the first Navy nurses. They sailed along the banks of the Mississippi River and attended to those who needed medical help. Before the end of the war, eighty served the Army and Navy. 
In 1869, Angela began the solicitation of funds which led to many donations to Notre Dame du Lac, including dona­tions to building of the church of Sacred Heart, and the new college in 1880. She also do­nated the statue of Our Lady which was placed above the Dome. 
The death of Angela on March 4, 1887, marked the end of an era for the sisters, yet the community has continued to flourish. The Sisters of the Holy Cross continued to open schools and hospitals across the country to educate and serve the people of the world. 
I 
1841 
Congregation of Mariaites of Holy Cross formed in LeMans, France. 

1843 

Three priests, four sisters, and one brother leave LeMans for Indiana. 
1844 
1845 

Because the Bishop of Vincennes would not allow a novitiae in his diocese, sister Mary of the Heart of Jesus and four postulants moved to Bertrand. 

Mother of Seven Dolors named first Mother General of Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
1853 

Mother M. Angela makes religious profession at LeMans, France. 
1854 
Mother Angela returns from making her novitiate in France and becomes Superior at Bertrand. 

1855 
I 


1861 
Father Sorin 

Governc
blesses 
calls fo
cornerstone of nurses.
"new" Saint Angela aMary's. 
answer h 
1856 
Rome approves separation of Marianite Sisters from the Holy Cross priests and brothers, into an autonomous community. 
150 Years of Devotion
Wednesday, October 9, 1991 
Worldwide service continues 
By AMY GREENWOOD streets and many of them are education. For Sister Ann, any 
Saint Mary's News Editor forced to attend her classes. good medical program needs 
Some students cannot receive an education program. She 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross public assistance or work off sees the great need to care for 
have much to celebrate this their probation without attend­new mothers and their babies 
year, the 150th anniversary of ing the education program. as well as educate them about 
the founding of the Congrega­Fueled by her experience their new role. 
tion. As they prepare to cele­from her former teaching days 
brate their accomplishments in Gary, Indiana and the inner­On the job at St. Agnes, 
over the past 150 years, the ef­city of Chicago, Sister Virginia Sister Ann coordinates a dozen 
forts of the sisters remain un­continues to educate and coun­or more maternity classes and 
known to a great number of sel even though her position as support groups for women 
people. director limits her time in the with lupus, women who have 
In the Notre Dame/Saint classroom. had mastectomies, and for Mary's community, many peo­Her program has been quite parents who have lost a child. ple only know the Sisters of the successful, but Sister Virginia She attempts to bring health Holy Cross as the nuns who sees the need to reach more care professionals into the live in the convents behind than the five percent of non­classes and consultations. Saint Mary's College. By taking graduates that her program While communication can be a closer look, however, one can aids. She wants to get difficult between nurse see that the sisters have been a employers involved also. educators and physicians, vital part in the growth and While education proves to be Sister Ann works hard to success of the Church and it's a vital part of the Congrega­bridge the gap in order to people. tion, health care continues to serve those who need them 
Traditionally, the majority of be a very important ministry most, namely the women who the Sisters of the Holy Cross also. The Congregation spon­come to Women's Health Ser­have been involved in sors the Holy Cross Health vices. education ministries. They Care System for which many The Sisters of the Holy Cross continue to work in colleges, sisters work. HCHS operates do not concentrate solely on elementary and secondary nine major health care education and health care. schools, early childhood and corporations in seven states. They have also recently devel­adult education programs. These subsidiary oped social service ministries. 
The Congregation sponsors corporations include 12 acute This includes direct social many educational institutions care hospitals, eight extended work as well as programs all over the world: Saint care facilities, four residential directed toward change and Mary's College, Notre Dame, centers for the handicapped modification of unjust social Indiana; the Academy of the and elderly, clinics serving the structures. Holy Cross, Kensington, poor, a college of nursing, Maryland; Colegio Santa three preferred provider orga­A ride down to 305-307 S. Maria, Sao Paulo, Brazil, as nizations, as well as numerous Chapin St. , South Bend can il­well as Mater Ecclesiae Center ambulatory care and surgery lustrate a successful combina­in Tiberias, Israel. Many centers. The Congregation tion of the Congregation's sisters work in these and other also sponsors a health care health care/social service min­programs which are not clinic in istry. The Saint Joseph's sponsored by the order. Bundibugyo, Uganda. Health Center, designed by Sis­
An example of the order's Sister Ann Keating serves as ter Maura Brannick with the commitment to education an example of the help of many other nuns in the exists quite close to Saint Congregation's health care community, targets it's service Mary's and Notre Dame. Sister mission as combined with it's toward the poor. Virginia Miceli directs the education ministry. Sister Ann Adult Basic Education Center works as the coordinator of the Sister Maura's dream pro­in Elkhart. The program Women's Health Services at St. vided the seed for a growing targets adults who want to get Agnes Medical Center. Sister health center that helps many their high school diploma or Ann began her work in in need of medical care who just need help to become more midwifery in the mid-60's live in South Bend. At Saint literate. when she received her Joseph's Health Center, pa­
Although Sister Virginia's master's degree and certifi­tients are only charged a nomi­students may appear to be self­cation as a mid-wife. While nal fee for physician visits. motivated in getting their edu­she vowed never to leave her Nurses provide much needed cation, many of them are not. field as a registered nurse, health assessments and 
Her students hail from the Sister Ann began to focus on evaluations within the clinic, as 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Sister Francesca Kennedy, Saint Mary's Registrar, looks through college transcripts at the Registrar's office. 
well as make follow-up phone contacts. Outreach screenings for problems with blood pressure and diabetes are conducted throughout the community due to the center's efforts. Sister Maura remains determined to make health care accessible for all those who need it. 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross also offer their time to parish ministry. They serve in urban and rural parishes where they hold positions as directors of religious education and pas­toral associates. Sisters also work for their diocese as ad­ministrators or staff. 
The Congregation has also undergone other changes be­
sides the venture into social service and parish ministries. The Congregation has in­creased the number of laity roles. Sister Campion Kuhn sees this change as a necessity, "There are less nuns to go around so we need the laity." She sees examples of this de­crease in the fewer number of sisters teaching at Saint Mary's as ·well as the absence of sisters from dorm administration. 
While fewer sisters means less visibility, this fact does not mean the Cd'ngregation is less effective. The Sisters of the Holy Cross touch people every­where-from our "home" in South Bend to Bangladesh on the other side of the world. 

.. .. 

1863 

Civil war nursing assignments made. 
s 
y 
j 

Two Sisters awarded the Officier D'Acedemic for distinguished accomplishments in literature and education by the French government.  1989  
Sister Thomas More  
named President of  
Sisters of the Holy  
Cross.  

150 Years of Devotion 
Wednesday, October 9, 1991 


Snowstorm %e air is wfiite and winds are crying. I tfiinl(of swans in (jafway j[ying. 
Winds are Ulingsi snow is a roveri 
Swans of(ja[way are j[yingover. 
Winds are Girdsi snow is a feat fieri Wi[d sfiite swans are wine£ and weatfier. 
Winds drift downward; snow is ja[fingi Swans are wi[c£ winds crying, ca[fing. 
Winds are sfiite witfi snow Gut a[ way Mine are wfiite Ulitfi swans from (ja[way. 
Sister Madeleva 

Sister Madeleva gave College direction for the future 
By MICHELLE CLEMENTE News Writer 

Madeleva, the name brings many possibilities to mind. A sister, a poet, a lover of medieval history, a president and a building. 
Before becoming Sister Madeleva, Mary Evaline Wolff was born May 24, 1887 to Au­gust and Lucy Wolff on a small island town of Cumberland, Wisconsin. 
At sixteen Eva graduated from high school. 
... 
~..:­
She studied at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee from 1905-1906. During a vacation, Wolff picked up a magazine and read: Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana, A Liberal Arts College for Women, For information address the secretary. 
Wolff applied with her tran­script of A's and B's, and was accepted. 
She graduated from Saint Mary's College with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1909. Shere­ceived her master's degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1918, and her Ph. D from the University of Califor­nia at Berkeley in 1925. 
It is said that her degree is the first conferred on a sister. She did her graduate study at Oxford University in England from 1933-1934 and traveled extensively in the Holy Land. 
She received seven honorary degrees from Manhattan Col­lege, Mount Mary College, Uni­versity of Notre Dame, Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart, Indiana University, Creighton University, and Marquette University. 
She began to question her life while still a student at Saint Mary's. She participated in a retreat and realized that religious life was for her. Yet she was troubled by the way she had acted in school. She skipped classes, had parties in her room and talked at forbid­den hours. She thought, "God does not make sisters out of girls like me." 
The summer before her se­nior year, she prepared for the novitiate. She was received on September 14, 1908, by Mother Barbara, the mistress of novices. On December 1 0 she received her religious habit. 
She chose Mary Madeleva as her name which she explained as "the honor of bearing a combination of the names of the Mother of God, Mary Mag­dalene, the friend of Christ, and Eve, the mother of mankind." She said her perpetual vows on August 15, 1914. 
On August 13, 1934, Madal­eva became the third president of Saint Mary's College. She described her best qualifica­tions for the office as her , "ability to dream," and "capacity ofwork." 
In 1935, the curriculum was reorganized under the four ba­sic areas of educational devel­opment: physical, intellectual, spiritual, and social. Courses were divided into upper and lower divisions. A new graduation requirement was the senior comprehension. 
Student Government was established under her adminis­tration. 
Madaleva also felt a need to enlarge the campus. In 1945, the academy for high school students was relocated from Saint Mary's campus to Erskine Estate in Twyckenham Hills in South Bend. 

During Madaleva's adminis­tration the Riedinger House was built. The house was a model home for the home economics students. 
In 1941, the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross celebrated their first century of its founding in France. To commemorate the event, Saint Mary's built the Alumnae Cen­tennial Library. 
In 1954 the Science Hall was opened. 
On May 13, 1961, at age 74, Madeleva announced her plans of retirement at the end of the year. She served as Saint Mary's president for 27 years. She stayed at Saint Mary's as a consultant to Sister Maria Re­nata, who succeed her as president. 
She accepted invitations to give lectures and continued to write. In her spare time she read poetry to novices and pos­tulants. She also enjoyed old books, birds and flowers. 
Madaleva went to Boston for a routine check-up in July of 1964. She had an attack that caused severe pain and was treated at New England Baptist Hospital. She died on July 25th form a post-operative complication of a non­malignant condition. 
In her life, Madaleva wrote 18 books, mostly of poetry, and had publications in over 20 magazines.. 
She received a gold medal from the National Poetry Cen­ter of the New York World's Fair in 1939 for the best poem submitted by an Indiana poet. Her poem was titled "Snow Storm". 
She was awarded the Siena Medal in 1948 as a Catholic who has made a distinctive contribution to Catholic life in the U.S., a medallion for Woman of Achievement in 1950 by the Women's International Institute, the Campion Award in 1959 and the Award of Honor for "remarkable creative ability in poetry" from the Poet's Corner Incorporated in 1959. 

SaintMa~'s College NOTRE DAME o IN DIANA Saint Mary's College Founders' Day Celebration Thursday, October 10 "Remember Our Roots" 10 a.m.-2 p.m. Open House, Riedinger Alumnae House 10:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Directory Give-Away, in front of Haggar. 12 noon-1 p.m. Reception "Remember Our Roots," Stapleton Lounge. 4:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Dinner at the Dining Hall: Saint Mary's fashion show at 5 p.m. and 5:40p.m.  
Editors: Jeanne Blasi The Observer would like Jennifer Habrych to thank the staff of the Kelley Tuthill Saint Marys Archives for Lisa Eaton all of their asistance with this section.  

SMC celebrates Founders' Day 
By JENNIFER ABBATE Accent Writer 
Founders' Day, which will be held on Thursday, marks the founding of Saint Mary's College in 1844 by Father Edward Sorin, Mother Angela and Father Basil Moreau. 
This day, which is sponsored by the Student Alumni Association, brings the past and present together by honor­ing the Saint Mary's tradition, culture, heritage and spiritual­ity. Although Founders' Day is actually on Oct. 13, Saint Mary's 148th year will be cele­brated on Oct. 10. 
Founders' Day is almost as old as Saint Mary's itself. Last year, the Student Alumni Association began to sponsor this event in hopes that more attention would be given to the history of the College, and to foster a greater awareness for Founder's Day. 
To start the day's events, a directory, which categorizes each student by her state and city, has been made for the stu­dent body. Also, in recognition of this day, souvenirs will be handed away in the morning. 
Incorporated this year will be the sesquicentennial celebration of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Since the College was founded, the sisters have given Saint Mary's its tradition and have helped it grow. 

Founders' Day will finish off the sisters' 150th year with a display in the Cushwa-Leighton Library that will recognize cur­rent sisters who work in the li­brary or teach. Also, in order for students at Saint Mary's to show her appreciation and rec­ognize the Sisters of the Holy Cross, there will be a card ev­eryone can sign at the dining hall. 
During lunch, there will be a reception for the Sisters of the Holy Cross, students, faculty and staff. This luncheon will focus on educating those in at­tendance on the history of the College. 
The Student Alumni Association would like to bring the Saint Mary's family in tune with the past faces and physical surroundings of the school by e~hibiting old yearbooks among other things. 
Another unfamiliar feature to many students is the Riedinger House-the little house between Holy Cross and L~Mans Halls, across from O'Laughlin Auditorium. Built in 1939, it is now where alumni and other important guests stay when they visit the College. For the second year in a row, it will be open for tours. 
A fashion show, showing clothes of different eras, will be featured in the dining hall during dinner hours. Also dis­played during dinner will be regulations from old hand­books. 
For instance, unlike today, no food was allowed to be sent to the students in the early 1900s unless it was fruit. Care pack­ages were essentially not al­lowed. 
Iri addition, instead of going to the Haggar Center with your bank card, all pocket-money was deposited in the Student Office. Each student could only receive money with the permission of her parents. 
Finally, for all of you who think parietals are unbearable now, in 1911 visiting hours were from 1:30 until 4:30 p.m. Visitation was in the reception rooms and took place with im­mediate family members only. 
Although the faces, physical surroundings and regulations have changed, Saint Mary's still stands proud. On this Founder's Day, organizers hope the community can all recognize and cherish the rich tradition of Saint Mary's College. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 





