

l
I 
I 


defensive force in Saudi Arabia struction." News Writer fensive option against Iraq this 
By KEVALEEN RYAN first began talking up the of­
proves otherwise. "Military Meissner: While the use of past fall, he has been 
escalation of the conflict by the chemical weapons is a viable In an effort to speak out propelling the United States in 
United States would only un­concern, war is not the best against the use of offensive mil­the direction of war without 
derscore the idea that might way to address it. "By going to itary action to resolve the cur­adequately considering the 
makes right and that military war with Iraq, we compel the rent situation in the Middle enormous costs of war or 
force is an acceptable way to use of these weapons which East, the Gulf Crisis Action adequately evaluating non­•U.S.: "We must stop the vio­raise and resolve one's would greatly raise the number Group held a demonstration military options to address lence against the Kuwaitis and grievances in the world." of civilian casualties and have and prayer service for over 200 crises," said Janet Meissner. co­reclaim the country for them." •U.S.: "We must protect our long-term disastrous effects on people TutJsday at the Field­chairperson of the Group and Meissner: Although ultimate economic interests." the environment." It is true the house Mall. NO graduate student. withdrawal is a valid goal, mili­Meissner: An offensive strike proliferation of nuclear 
Five and a half months after Although Meissner stated that tary intervention would likely would actually endanger the weapons warrants great con­its Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, the Iraqi take-over of its oil­"decimate the physical infras­heavy concentration of oil in cern. However, the United 
President Saddam Hussein has rich neighbor is clearly illegal tructure (of Kuwait) and cause this region, cause oil prices to States, an acknowledged leader refused to meet the Jan. 15 and warrants punitive action, enormous civilian casualties." soar and, because of Saddam's in this field, can not go to war deadline set by the United Na­she said that a U.S. military •U.S. : "We must not reward promise to destroy the oil with every emerging nuclear 
lions for the withdrawal of attack would defeat, not aggression." fields, threaten the environ­power. Iraqi troops. Despite this. the facilitate, the objectives stated Meissner: The ment. "While President Bush advo­llroup maintains that war is not by the Bush administration. implementation of •U.S.: "We must halt the cates going to war with Iraq for the only remaining option. These objectives are as fol­comprehensive economic threat that Iraq might develop 
AP Photo Air man 1st Class Reginald Horton, sits awaiting deployment on the eve of the United Nations imposed dead­line against Iraq at a Saudi Arabian air base. He arrived Tuesday with the 31st Services Squadron. The midnight deadline passed without incident, but President Bush is authorized to order an attack at anytime. 
"Ever since President Bush lows: 
Concerned students return from abroad 
sanctions and deployment of a and use weapons of mass de­
see PROTEST I page a 
A nation is preoccupied with war 
(AP)-Church bells pealed for 
About 100 protesters gath­peace. Demonstrators pleaded ered in downtown Chicago to for peace. But the United States take turns reading from sec­on Tuesday was a nation pre­tions of a speech of King's occupied with war. against the Vietnam War. 
Hours before the expiration of a United Nations deadline for "It is appalling that Martin Iraq to leave Kuwait passed caught in the police sweep. Luther King's birthday should without incident, police across Estimates of the crowd size be used as the date when Ge­the nation prepared for ranged from 3,000 to 10,000. orge Bush says this country is terrorist strikes and soldiers' "This is our only hope," said going to go to war," said Barry relatives prayed and waited. Darla Rucker, a spokeswoman Romo of Vietnam Veterans 
Even Mister Rogers, the chil­for the anti-war group, Pledge Against the War, which orga­dren's television show host, of Resistance. "We're on our nized the demonstration. joined the grim preparations by way to war, and civil unrest is taping messages designed to the only thing that will stop it." In Washington, National Park help children cope with war. That sense of dying hope police arrested 55 demonstra­
Anti-war protests continued characterized demonstrations tors who sat and lay on the in virtually every large city. In around the nation. sidewalk in front of the White San Francisco, more than 400 House. They were taken to Na­people were arrested by riot­"It's a desperate time. We did tional Park Service headquar· clad police who used clubs and what we can," said Brian Ter­ters and released without chemical Mace to clear the rell, one of two demonstrators charges, according to Maj. streets of demonstrators. who disrupted Iowa Gov. Terry William Spruill of the Park Po­
The arrests occurred after Branstad's state-of-the-state lice. several thousand protesters, address in Des Moines. The protesters at the White some zipped into body bags, Protesters in some cities took House included students from blockaded the entrance to the note of the fact that Tuesday George Washington Junior High downtown Federal Building. was the birthday of the Rev. School who chanted, "One, two. Among those arrested was As­Martin Luther King Jr., three, four, we don't want your sociated Press photographer although the federal holiday stupid war." Some marchers Sal Veder, who was covering commemorating his birth is not substituted an obscene word the demonstration and was until next Monday. for "stupid." 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
Five students from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Home programs have returned to the U.S. due to concerns over the situation in the Middle East. 
Two students from the architecture program and three from the Saint Mary's Home program have decided to leave Italy due to their own and their parents concern for safety, according to spokespersons from both programs. 
"We are not recommending that students return," said Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of foreign study programs at Notre Dame. The students are not in any danger at the moment and the University has bHen in contact with the embassies and consulates in the sitns. 
None of Notre Dame's pro­grams have been cancelled except for the Jerusalem program which was cancelled last fall, she said. 
The University is doing its best to ensure that returning students are able to enroll for classes at Notre Dame. 
Three students from the Saint Mary's Rome program have returned to the U.S.• according to Peter Checca, assistant professor of modern languages and director of the Rome program. 
With such an uncertain fu· ture in the region, Checca said he does not know if other students will leave the program. For the time being he plans to keep a close watch on the situation. 
Saint Mary's will have no difficulty accommodating the returning students, including housing arrangements, said Checca. 

U.N. deadline passes as troops await war 
(AP)-The midnight deadline for Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to pull his forces out of Kuwait passed Wednesday and more than 680,000 U.S. and al­lied troops began a new count­down -to war. a.m. Wednesday local time in

Harring an attack by Iraq, the Baghdad, where the Iraqi gov­start of a Persian Gulf war lay 
ernment gave no last-minute
in the hands of President Bush sign it was willing to withdrawand allied leaders. Bush, armed from the small emirate it over­
with congressional au­
ran in a dispute over land andthorization to drivn Iraq from oil.
Kuwait. was describnd Tuesday After the deadline, set Nov.
as r11solutn and "at peace with 29 by the United Nations Secu­himself." 
rity Council, U.N. members areIraq d11clared a "furnace of authorized to drive Iraq out ofhell" awaits anyone trying to Kuwait by force. 
dislodge its 545.000 troops 
Deadline expiration at mid­from Kuwait. taken over in an night Tuesday, Eastern Stan­
Iraqi blitz on Aug. 2. What 
dard Time, did not mean warSaddam faced was thousands of was inevitable, but exhausted
combat aircraft. scores of 
diplomats said efforts to find a
warships and some of the 
peaceful solution were practi­
world's most sophisticated 
cally dead. 
weapons, spearheaded by 
At a packed news conference,415.000 U.S. troops. 
U.N. Secretary-General JavierBaghdad's shouts of defiance Perez de Cuellar made a final ­combined with a worldwide appeal to Saddam Hussein toclamor of last-minute appeals withdraw his troops and avert
to Saddam and anti-war protnsts. The deadline expired at 8 see GULF/ page a 
Gulf Crisis Action Group protests and prays for peace 
INSIDE CoLUMN Here's a letter for you, Mr. President Dear Mr. President: I am 20 years old. Until now, this only meant that I cannot legally buy or drink alcoholic beverages. Until now, being a twenty year-old meant that I am not John O'Brienquite an adult. Now, because it is Managing Editor past January 15, 1991 and Iraqi troops are still entrenched in Kuwait, being 20 means that I would be a member of the first wave of people conscripted should Congress authorize a draft. With the very real possibility of war in the Persian Gulf, a draft is not out of the question. In the next few weeks, a walk around campus here at Notre Dame will serve as a reminder of the real issue of a war in the Middle East. The presence of hundreds of ROTC students will remind us that if there is war in the Gulf, it will be real people that are fighting the war-not nameless, faceless machines. Many people close to me will be going to war if there is one. Tom and Paul, two friends of mine from high school are al­ready there, waiting to see if they'll have to give their lives. My roommate Mike, who is in ROTC, and my brother-in-law Jim, who is in the reserves, are also in a position to go to war. If I get drafted, I will go. I am a citizen of the United States and I plan to accept the responsibilities of being a citizen along with the privileges. However, I am not a Rambo, and I do not want to "kick ass" in Kuwait as you might. In fact, I'm scared to death to go. I just read your letter to college students and I'm a little confused. If I am going to go to war and fight alongside my friends and my relatives, I want to know why I'm there. Truth, justice and the American way are great, but is that what the whole Kuwait thing is about? I find that hard to believe sometimes. If this is about oil, then tell us its about oil. And if it is about oil, please give this is­sue some more thought. Do you really think its worth all these lives? Are you willing to sacrifice all of these lives for oil? I may only be 20, but I know there are some things I would like to do with my life. I want to get married someday. I want to be a dad. I want to take my kids on vacation and I want to cheer for my son or daughter in their basketball games. I want to see the White Sox cream the Cubs in a Cross-town World Series. And I want to spoil my niece. One thing I don't want, Mr. President, is to die. I know that Paul, Tom, Mike, and Jim don't want to die either, nor do any of the other men and women who will go to war. So think about us before you make your decision. We're not traitors and we're not unpatriotic. We just don't want to die. Sincerely, John O'Brien American  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 Tuesday's Staff News Production Graphics Peter Loftus Michelle Wood Michael Muldoon Siobhan McCarthy Ann Buff Circulation Accent VIewpoint Bill O'Rourke Paige A. Smoron Becky Pichler Matt Novak John Fischer Kathy Welsh Melissa Cusack Photography Scoreboard Garr Schwartz Ad Design Dave McMahon doug Bronsing SportsMaria Blohm Systems David Dieteman Kerry Clair Mark Sloan Mike Murphy The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

--------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, January 16, 1991
!:..pa::;g;z_:e:.......=2_________________ .. _ _ --·-·· The Observer 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, VVednesday,Jan. 16 20
20 Lines show high temperatures. 20 
Yesterday's high: 42 
Yesterday's low: 30 
Nation's high: 83 
{Key West, FL) 
Nation's low: -6 
{Alamosa, CO) 

Forecast: Cloudy Wednesday with a 90 percent chance of mixed rain and snow, changing to all snow by late morn­ing, with some accumu­lation possible. Tempera­tures will remain steady in the middle 30s. Cloudy Wednesday night with a 70 percent of snow, changing to light snow or 
FRONTS: flurries after midnight. Lows from the upper 20s to around 30. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
A

§~~ ~XXX~
® © ~ rn tzl 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 
OF INTEREST 

Congressman Tim Roemer will hold an open fo-On-campus rooms are still available for female rum at Grace Hall tonight at 7 p.m. He will speak on the graduate, full-time degree-seeking students. If interested, situation in the Persian Gulf and would like to hear stu-contact the Office of Student Residences, 311 Administra­dents' opinions on the crisis. tion Building, at 239-5878. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre will hold auditions for its second studio production "The Ice Detailed instructions will be given on how to bestWolf," Wednesday and Thursday at 7 p.m. in the labora­utilize Resume Expert, a computerized resume prepara­tory theatre of Washington Hall. Auditions will also be tion system, in order to enhance your resume. The pre­held at this time for advanced directing projects. 
sentation is today, 3:30-4:30 p.m., in the Career and Placement Services conference room.
Auditions will be held for announcers for WSND FM, ND's fine arts radio station, on January 21 and 22. For information, call Cathy at 283-1321. 
WORLD 

President Bush told Congress Monday that he has decided to free $42.5 million in military aid for the government of El Salvador, saying Salvadoran rebels are committing hu­man rights abuses and grabbing weapons. But Bush said he would hold up dispensing the money for 60 days to coincide with elections in March for 

the Salvadoran National Assembly. This will give peace negotiations under the auspices of the United Nations "every chance to work," Bush said in a statement. "The United States is prepared to go the last mile for peace in El Salvador," Bush said. "We are not prepared to sacri­fice the security of the elected government or of American citizens." 
A grenade went off behind the u.s. Embassy in Panama City, Panama, early Tuesday, but no one was in­jured, the embassy said. A second grenade failed to ex­plode. "The grenade that exploded caused slight damage to one of the windows in the building and to some bushes," the embassy said in a statement. The other ex­plosive was removed without incident by a U.S. Army ex­plosives team, it said. Embassy officials and Panamanian police were investigating the incident. There was no im­mediate claim of responsibility. About 10,000 American soldiers are stationed at 11 U.S. military bases along the Panama Canal. 
NATIONAL The rap group 2 Live Crew didn't violate copyright A federal report includes genetic tests that "strongly laws with their takeoff of Roy Orbison's hit "Pretty suggest" a Florida dentist who died of AIDS infected 
Woman," a federal judge has ruled in Nashville, Ten-three of his patients with the virus, one of the patients nessee. U.S. District Thomas Wiseman ruled Monday in said Tuesday. Kimberly Bergalis and her lawyers said the favor of the rap group in a lawsuit brought by Nashville's Centers for Disease Control report shows the strains of Acuff-Rose Music Inc. over a song similar to Orbison's AIDS in all four people were virtually identical. "Now they 1964 hit. Wiseman said 2 Live Crew's song, also entitled finally believe me, but where were they when I was stand­"Pretty Woman," simply uses comic lyrics to satirize the ing by myself?" Ms. Bergalis asked. Her dentist, Dr. original work. "In sum, 2 Live Crew is an anti-establish-David Acer, died of AIDS in September. She went to him 
ment rap group," Wiseman said. 
CAMPUS 

Holy Cross College will host a financial aid workshop at the College on Tuesday, January 29 at 7 p.m. The workshop is designed to assist parents and students in filing for financial aid for the 1991-92 academic year. R. Douglas Irvine, director of Financial Aid at Holy Cross, will pre­sent an overview of the entire financial aid pro­cess and copies of the 1991-92 FAF form will be made available. 
University President Father Edward Mal­loy has been named to the Advisory Board for the National Interfaith Cable Coalition, with head­quarters in New York City. The NICC is responsi­ble for the largest cable network for religious programming in the country, VISN. Notre Dame is completing its second season of providing pro­grams on ethical and social issues for VISN in a series known as "Life Choices." In addition, this programming is seen on a dozen PBS stations around the country, including New Orleans and San Francisco. "Life Choices" is produced for the University by Golden Dome Productions, South Bend. 
for a tooth extraction. 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index 171.70 
+0.49 S&P Composite + 313.73 1.24 Dow Jones IndustrialsA. 2,490.59 T 6.68 
Precious Metals Gold +$1.30 to $400.20/oz. 
Sliver • 3.5¢ to $4.222/oz. 
ALMANAC 
On January 16: 

eln 1910: The U.S. annual defe11se budget was reported to be at a record high of $2 billion. 
eln 1916: Mexican soldiers of Pancho Villa's army killed 18 American citizens bound for work in mines near Chihuahua City. The soldiers respon­sible were condemned to death. 
eln 1939: President Franklin D. Roosevelt asked for an extension of the Social Security Act to more women and children. 
eln 1946: Joining a growing dissat­isfaction of workers nationwide, over 200,000 went on strike Chicago's meat-packing plants, causing the na­tion's meat output to fall by 75%. 
eln 1959: Cuban revolutionaries supplanted the government of Fulgencia Batista, replacing him with rebel leader Fidel Castro's choice of Manuel Urrutia as provisional President. 
Wednesday, January 16, 1991 
The Observer page 3 
Soviet troops tighten grip in Latvia and Lithuania 
RIGA, U.S.S.R. (AP) -Soviet commandos stormed a Latvian police academy Tuesday and seized weapons from cadets, and thousands at a Communist Party-led rally roared for a pro­Kremlin group J,o take power in the republic. 
In Lithuania, a military heli­copter circled parliament and workers dug a long trench be­hind the building to protect it from Soviet tanks. A govern­ment official said 80 people were missing since Sunday's military assault on the repub­lic's television tower. Fourteen people are known to have been killed in the attack; 230 were injured. 
About 5,000 Kremlin loyalists also rallied in the Estonian cap­ital of Tallinn, condemning the separatist Estonian govern­ment. 
Tensions remained high in the Baltics, where Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev has been striking back at pro­independence forces he says are violating the Soviet Constitution. 
Latvian Interior Minister Aloizs Vaznis accused Soviet "black beret" commandos of staging attacks that "are de­signed to provoke armed con­flict to prompt the intervention of military units, which are combat-ready." 
The commandos attacked Latvia's only police academy at 2 a.m. and took pistols, auto­matic weapons, snipers' rifles and grenade launchers that Vaznis said "could be used in provocative actions" against the republic's government. 
Some of the commandos ar­rived at the academy disguised as traffic police, talked their way past a night watchman and disarmed him, Latvian radio reported. Other commandos seized the building, disarming the cadets and severely beating two, the report said. They left a short time later. 
On Monday, commandos in black berets seized a police precinct station in a Riga sub­urb but left quickly and later returned the captured weapons. 
The commandos also occu­pied a heating facility in a Riga suburb. 
The "black beret" units are controlled by the Soviet Interior Ministry, which is headed by Boris Pugo, a former head of the Latvian KGB secret police. 
"I have come to the conclu­sion that these actions were planned by the Soviet Interior Ministry" in Moscow, Vaznis said. 
He spoke in testimony to par­liament, which was televised live. 
Vaznis warned women and children to stay off the narrow streets of the Old Town area, where parliament is located. Most women working in the legislature and nearby radio building were sent home early. 
In an effort to defuse ten­sions, Latvian President Ana­toljs Gorbunovs appealed in a televised address for people to clear barricades and heavy trucks that had been placed along the route to a sports sta­dium where the anti-indepen­dence rally was held Tuesday afternoon. 
Between 10,000 and 12,000 people opposed to Latvia's sep­aratist government jammed a stadium and cheered Commu-

f!" group of Lithuanians keep warm around a fire in an all night vigil against Soviet troops. The vigil was held m the square surrounding the parliament in Vilnius, the capital of Lithuania, Tuesday morning. The crowds vowed to defend the parliament till death as they await a possible raid by the Soviet troops and tanks. 
nist Party ideologist Ojars Potreki, who urged the shad­owy National Salvation Com­mittee to take power. 
"Who is for this?" he asked. When the crowd roared its ap­proval, he said: "The National Salvation Committee has now been empowered to take power." 
The committee, which gov­ernment officials said is headed by Latvian Communist Party chief Alfreds Rubiks, has de­manded that parliament revoke its May 4 independence declaration and roll back 





G,]R. 


7:30PM •JANUARY 21, 1991 • SACRED HEART CHURCH 
p y .un us Mmtstry 
I •••••• ••••••• ••••••••••• 
:~ NOTRE DAME 1991 
I 


1) ~ COLLEGE 
I 


~ BOWL TOURNAMENT 
: I ~ 
:~ 
I 

DEADLINE FOR ENTRIES IS JANUARY 17,1991 
SEND TEAM ROSTERS TO: DR. PETER LOMBARDO CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION NOTRE DAME 
CALL 239-6691 FOR INFORMATION 
-


Wednesday, January 16, 1991
a e 4 The Observer 
Welcome Back Students, Faculty & Staff! 
OfficeMax•••Over 6,000 School & Office Supply Items Drastically Discounted Every Day! 
Supermarket-size stores featuring everything from paper to pens, faxes to furniture, 
calculators to computer software, quick print services and more. Open to the public. No membership fees. 
SAVE 61 o/oDennison National Ring Binder I" ring capacity. Available In 7 colors. Catalog List Price $3.57 
04-004455 RD.. 
04-004473 Grey 
04-004482 R&d 04-004464 Wedgewood 

SAVE 50% 
04-00449 I Blue 
04-004607 Black 
04-004606 Green 
SAVE 50% 
Sheet Protectors Top loading, punched on reinforced edge. Ma.xPack of I 00. Catalog List Price $15.00 
04-011671 



Bic Mechanical Pencils ...-.---~ 
Colorful, non-refUiable mechanical pencils. 
.,SJ ~ 

Pack of 5. 
f~ 

Catalog List Price $1.98 
10-012675 

01Ttoo!4u Rveryda,y Prloe 
CASID. 
U 

·0.7rnm'-lod, 
'-___:_·-· 

SAVE $5.39 
Casioi'XllB Scientific Calculator 164 scientific, mathematical a.nd engineering functions. Independent 
a.na constant memories. Includes scientific calculator workbook. Catalog List Price $24.95 
02-012299 

SAVE $5.06 
W.T. Rogers Crate-A-File n 
Portable sta.ckable rues. Includes 3 hanging fUe folders. Catalog List Price $11.00 
Oll-010798 Blue 


$594
Oll-010808 Put.t;y 0:!-010831 Wo.uvo Oi!-010&41 8lo.l.o Blue OtrlooL!ax 
Bveryda,yPrloo 
"---~--~fl~---_:.:_-_._._·,·;_:··_ 
,I V'f '• , • ' 
'I ~ .... ·.-. 
. ~ ·-.... . :... . .. . ....:::... :.. : 
•. ·.. 

SAVE 52% 
Stempel Wood Frame CorkBoard. 18" X 24". Catalog List Price $17.96 
11-001480 
$858 
omc.L!u 
Bveryda,yl'rtoo 
SAVE $12.07 
Cork Board $18.98 
24" X 36". Catalog List Price $26.06 
ll-00149Q 
SAVE $22.32 
Cork Board $23.88 36" X 48". Catalog List Price $46.20 
11-001808 
,;,; 

.. a: a: Now Open a: 
MISHAWAKA/SOUTH BEND 
WILSHIRE PLAZA GRAPE AND DOUGLAS ADS. NEXT TO BUILDERS SQUARE 
273-0328 

SAVE 73% 
PaperMate Stick Pens 12 Pack.Medlum or Fine Point. Blue, red, or black Ink. Catalol! List Price $3.60 
I0-000349 Blacl< 
I0-000358 Rod 

9 7 ¢

10-000367 Bluo 
I0-000388 Fine Blue 10-000401 F1ne Bl&ek otrloe14u: I0-000394 Fine Red Rveryda,y Price 

SAVE 75% 
06-010773 

SAVE 54% Fran!:!m woRoMA&TBR" 
Franklin Wordmaster 
World's most comprehensive electronic thesaurus. 47,000 synonyms for over 36,000 words. Checks a.nd corrects 80,000 words. Catalog List Price $129.96 
02-012360 

$5 9 00 
OtrlooMu: 
Bvoryda,y Prl~ 

OfficeMax Service Center 
•Large Quantity Duplication 3¢ea.ch 
100 per oi'1glna.l mlnlmum 8 1/2" x 11 ", 20 lb. whlte paper, one aide. Compare at 7t each. 
•Self-Serve Copying 5¢ 8 l /2 11 x ll II, 20 lb. white paper, each one side. Compare at 1ob each. 
Other Services Available: 

•Offset 
Printing •Rubber Stamps

•
Business Cards •NCR Forms 

•Letterhead/Envelopes 
•Fax Services 


. 

~ rreoo 
r 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ wirebound ~ 
notebook 70 sheets 
r-
SAVE 61% 

SAVE 52% 
Mead Theme Book 70 sheets, 8-l/2 "xl 0-l/2" Narrow or wide ruled. Catalog List Price 99¢ 
06-010078 wlda ruled 06-01 12111 oa.rrow ruled. 

48!looMu 
Everyd&y PMce 

rreoo 
.::::::, 

#2 Lead American Pencils 
Pack of l 0 pencils. Catalog List Price $1.50 
10-011962 
j,j ,, ' 

SAVE .76¢ 
Mead Filler Paper Ma.de of fine quality bond paper.200ct. College ruled. Catalog List Price $1.76 
04-010626 
gg~l~MLX
Rveryda,y Prl~ 

SAVE $212.99 
Smith Corona PWP47D Word Processor 
8 Line x 80 character LCD display. Spell-Right 60,000 WOrd dlc&lonary. Word-Right a.nd Auto-Spell. Catalog List Price $499.99 
02-019274 






$28 7 
~~Max 
Rveryd&y Prloo 

SAVE 36~ 
Dennlson Yellow Rt£Ughter
Replaces un erllntng. Catalog L1st. Prtce 86• 
10-001712 


4 9¢ 
OI!IOOM&x llveeyda,y ­

SAVE $1.61 
Carter's 4 Color Set Highltghter Markers $1.89 Cataloll List Price $3.40 
10-0017117 
r----""T""--r---, d i N
.. ! A 

~ 

MISH~W~~~~~END OfficelVIax® 
WILSHIRE PLAZA GRAPE AND DOUGLAS RDS. a NEXT TO BUILDERS SQUARE 
273-0328 .... Savings is the Bottom Line™ 
~11811lClrllcoUox,lnc. Wo......,lho""'l"'lrnH___ Nol--lcrprlnlng,.~­
OfficeMax· Charge it! 
~~-~Of~~d 
IIJDSI166.12.1 We aloo honor VISA. '------' MOI!erCard. Dlocover. 

STORE HOURS: Sunday 11:00 a.m.· 6:00p.m. Monday thru Friday 8:00a.m.· 9:00p.m. Saturday 9:00a.m.• 9:00p.m. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------~-­
By PAUL PEARSON Assistant News Editor 
To Father Stephen Newton, rector of Sorin Hall, the situa­tion looks familiar. 
According to Newton, who is also director of special projects at the Office of Campus Min­istry, the campus' response to the crisis in the Persian Gulf re­sembles its response to the Vietnam War, except that this response is "more reflective and prayerful." 
Part of this response was a demonstration and prayer ser­vice held at the Fieldhouse Mall Tuesday. "I was impressed with the turnout." Newton said. 

Wednesday, January 16, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Campus groups actively protest a war in the Gulf 
tal and energy issues in the Gulf Crisis; the background of Iraq and Kuwait; and the possible scenarios for the crisis. 
The Group is also planning to send a delegation to Washing­ton, D.C., to take part in a na­tional march for peace. Meiss­ner will participate in a meeting of National Student Network Against War in Chicago on Jan. 19-20. 
Although Meissner said she 

According to Janet Meissner, one of the leaders of the Gulf Crisis Action Group, who orga­nized the protest, between 300 and 400 students took part in the demonstration, and about 50 students took part in an or­ganizational meeting held after the demonstration. 
Meissner, a graduate student, said that both the demonstra­tion and the meeting went well. "A lot of good ideas were put forward during the meeting." 
The Gulf Crisis Action Group is planning a four-day "Teach­In" Jan. 21-24. According to Meissner, the discussions will focus on the draft and consci­entious objectors; environmen­

'Strategic Moment' campaign nets $450 million for NO 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame has announced completion of the most success­ful development campaign in the history of Catholic higher education. The "Strategic Mo­ment campaign, launched in May 1987. attracted $456,410,000 in cash and commitments-152 percent of its original. $300-million goal. 
More than 61,000 individuals-SO percent of them Notre Dame alumni-contributed to the campaign. The final total makes this Notre Dame's fifth oversubscribed campaign in the last three decades, during which the University has raised $755.5 million. As a result, the University today has the 18th largest endowment in the na­tion at more than $600 million and its faculty salaries are in the top 20 percent of the na­tion's colleges and universities. 
Construction of new facilities on campus has averaged more than $10 million a year, with a record $60 million in construc­tion either recently completed or under way in late 1990. Con­struction for the remainder of the 1990s is projected to aver­age $20 million a year. 
University President Father Edward Malloy said of the campaign, "Once again, Notre Dame's alumni and friends have endorsed our vision of melding religious values with intellectual inquiry to provide a distinctive presence in Ameri­can higher education." Cam­paign chairman Donald Keough, who also chairs the University's Board of Trustees, said the success of the cam­paign "positions Notre Dame for the 1990s, giving it the re­sources for continuing aca­demic distinction among the nation's private universities." 
Keough is the president and chief operating officer of The Coca-Cola Company. 
Joining Malloy and Keough in the announcement were the campaign vice chairmen, Thomas Carney, chairman and chief executive officer of the Wheeling, 111.-based Metatech Corporation, and Frank Sulli­van, retired vice chairman of Mutual Benefit Life Insurance 

~ SELnate i!J!,-*-i''€tliiJft·i!~7--in U.S.A. & TOKYO 

ilU~ ,,._,~ ,,._,ata>tilll"-r· !.t!JJUt.:muu->11 lt"tftlU<J l:nt.:~·t:~•t.OJ1:·t, 't.:-r·;Ul, ADAPT"t·t;~ L.: hOl -t!l~*-~b'MI•JT ~--t!l~*-~1!:-fl!ata-t!i.-t--, '} @l !,?y/~ /D.C. c.•:t:£1:"111111, ~·1'ht. fiil:!l!'~lilll l:lttla<:Jt,.:-,.:it:•fl'-:1:1:~ L1:. IJ1B)!~U t.i:>,._,A., iiillt.fit,.:~•1 t. ~~~I:U-,.;f;-TI~·'f-lt. ~il·!. -t!l~*-h1J'IC·!I L1 to fiii:!I!'~O)tf <'A.I:c -::>1:U. 1<' ~s;•~~~,s•~~~c•n-r~~~~~ .:A.~c 
.: ,.,l:.iliilfl' IJ-,t:OJ-r·tn. e-t<-T-I'!We US.A.1!<-t-t'l30U. TOKY01!<-t­
(Bachelor ~JJ:.Ol*tl:l!ilill) 'f1i:Ol*~ ••II!. #'nnlll!l4 i:lll"C"Oll:til~l*'\l'>.!i·I~U.S.A.1!! r-SOOH•l"(·ll(•t:la'fli: TOKY01!!-t-1!<-t-1111 ii2.ollll!ll1!1 -c I:?II.'!Je<ttl:n111Jll'!;<nn. 'tttU,.t:?IIJI<' n l:nl1.109>;<nnu,t,:e<tt-rrH 1 r 00!1l.-nni1.E$1.'!JI'I"C· h·h·?t:'\l' >.!i•~2o.ooof'U T ..ltn.-nnl15oo r'"s-c·••t: lli'fli: f/;1.1!<-r-a,.l!il::·!f!•>Ah0l1511llli>l#'nnt <'tt "( IR~ 1-rOJt·, :.·7>J.T <'l\ •ttiiOl~l*'l!iA.I:'Jl'111". l1? ;--. 1i'J 'I :.-ft" 11tt~ t: t,: '11-ttA. • 
en... Lillh.;;JEe U.S.A.1!<7-. l/l25E•tl TOKY01!<7-6/lJ:."Ol 
~~~~==============================================~~~ 
Applications are now being accepted for the position of 



Editor-in-Chief 
1991-92 

Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m., January 25,1991. 
Further information is available from Alison Cocks at The Observer, 239-7471. 
~ ~
cur====---==---------------------=---------=--=9uC 
fl50!±0lll!BJlojt. fll~lliiili • Iii l!i 1: '130~IVII Olfll~iJilili. 
• n"'Lol>~>it1ti.l:.lllilil'.:iii~H7'.hl:?oi.T#'nniiJl!iOliA ~DH!:Ur >.!i~lflJI:IH·'r·>t t:·JIIIJ..<'h'tl•lll. :.·;i:ar ettae USA 1!!-t-~"ll:11~*~'!-1992'!'6lll\ 
"'''• ( ~,.:.-1!'"nt:liU~tlJJU1tA.Ol"C·. ·; tJ.:T>lr <'l•.)
1: $•(Bachelor Ul:.Ol*ilil!il ill )'f1i:Ol*~ 
e~;~.:,-tte l!lu-r·l1.1!<-t-Olll!J'iii~'J\·;t:•Ol.t:llt1!< -t TOKY01! <1"-~*11:11~:!1!'~'!-1992'1'12/ll "(·1:$• -LIIII.I!Ltl•1r n!\HI:nlllll•i!-h1tr<'L•, 
en • L""'· nlllll•-8-tJtte a~'ltU1!'"•-•<••*ul~ll!~~••~ i!Jt.4-~ U S.A. New York Off1ce 
TEL 1·800-537-218611:11 03-234-5071 TEL 1·800··344·7241 11:11 212-986·5520 I'I'E9:oo.... 6:oo.. B $11111111) ('I'E9:oo.... -s:oo,. NY Time) IHI 1<Hi·tl!ll·.l!!lll!·l*llhlifl IBl!l J:lll· Angela 

was pleased with the campus' reaction to the Gulf Crisis, she hopes that more people will start getting involved in protests. "Every U.S. citizen has a responsibility to speak out," she said. 
To protest the presence of 
U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, Campus Ministry sponsored a mass and prayer vigil at Sacred Heart Church Tuesday. 
Newton said that Campus Ministry's response to the crisis is being revised as the situation develops. "Once classes begin, I think the amount of protesting for peace will increase." 
Newton also said that Cam­pus Ministry is trying to assemble a list of Notre Dame graduates and siblings of cur­rent students who are part of Operation Desert Shield in Saudi Arabia. Those with in­formation on these people are asked to contact Campus Min­istry at Room 103 Hesburgh Library. 
The Center for Social Con­cerns is planning a prayer vigil to protest the Persian Gulf Cri­sis. The vigil will be held in the CSC Reflection Room starting at 5 p.m. today and lasting until 10 p.m. tomorrow. 
The Gulf Crisis Action Group will hold an organizational meeting tonight at the esc at 6 p.m. 
Company of Newark, N.J. Car­ney and Sullivan are Notre Dame alumni and trustees. 
Highlights of the campaign include the following: 
•Forty-five 
chaired profes­sorships, each endowed with $1 million, were established, rais­ing to 105 the number of en­dowed chairs created at Notre Dame since the first in 196 7." The creation of endowed chairs has had an important, multi­plier effect among our faculty," said Timothy O'Meara, the Uni­versity's provost." 

Chairholders serve as a mag­net, attracting stronger junior faculty members and stimulat­ing their senior faculty col­leagues.n 

•Funding 
for construction and renovation of campus facil­ities reached $105 million, un­derwriting the most prolific physical growth in the Univer­sity's history-an entire new quad, 13 new buildings, seven additions to existing buildings, two major renovations, and a campus memorial. 

Among the record $60 million in current projects are the con­struction of the $10.3-million Hesburgh Center for Interna­tional Studies, whose principal donor is Joan Kroc, widow of the McDonald's hamburger chain's founder, and the $7 -mil­lion renovation of Sacred Heart Church, the Gothic landmark and center of worship on the Notre Dame campus. 

•A 
gift of $33 million, the 18th largest ever to American higher education, was made by the Edward DeBartolo family to fund the core of a new aca­demic quadrangle. The DeBar­tolo classroom building, one of the anchors of the new quad, will be a state-of-the-art in­structional facility and the most expensive structure ·in the University's history at an esti­mated $20 million. 


Among other facilities to be sited on the DeBartolo quad are a $14-million performing arts center and a $12-million College of Business Administra­tion complex. 
•Unrestricted 
gifts, to be used at the University's discretion, totalled more than $55 million. These gifts provide the University with financial flexi­bility to address critical needs such as the expansion of stu­dent financial aid. 

•Direct 
scholarship endow­ment received an infusion of $50 million, an impact just be­ginning to be felt. In 1989 the University was able to offer fi­nancial assistance to 1,000 new students, in 1990, to 1,400. 


Scholarships and fellowships have been designated the Uni­versity's overriding post-cam­paign priority, with a goal of raising $10 million in new stu­dent aid endowment each year for the next decade. 
•The 
University's libraries re­ceived more than $6 million for book purchases, endowed bibli­ographers and collection preservation, and $4 million went to the Institute for Schol­arship in the Liberal Arts, which encourages and supports scholarship among faculty of the College of Arts and Letters. 

•Campaign 
support for Notre Dame's Catholic character in­cluded $3 million for the Center for Social Concerns, whose programs in experiential learn­ing and student voluntarism have been emulated by universities across the nation. The Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry also was the beneficiary of more than $3 million. 

•The 
University's Snite Mu­seum of Art received more than $2 million to endow programs and add to its collection. 

•Instrumentation, 
a necessity of the modern research univer­sity, attracted more than $2 million in gifts, including the establishment of the Lizzadro Magnetic Resonance Research Center, crucial to biochemical investigations. More than $2 million also went to Notre Dame's ecological research center at Land O'Lakes, Wis. 



Kagel's Flowers Special Fresh Cut Carnations Cash and Carry $9.95 per dozen 602 N. Michigan Across from Memorial Hospital 233-2232 We are our FTD Florist 
The Observer Wednesday, January 16, 1991
page 6 
Student Government 
Presents... 




LaFortune 24 hr. Lounge 
Beginning on Wednesday, January 23, 1991 the basement of LaFortune Student Center will be open 24 hrs. per day, seven days a week. 
To celebrate Student Government is hosting an opening night party. Movies will be shown and food and beverages will be served. 
Watch for further information on opening night activities. 

Wednesday, January 16, 1991 
Suspects in PLO killings arrested 
TUNIS, Tunisia (AP) -Police arrested several Palestinians, including a PLO bodyguard with links to terrorist Abu Nidal, after the assassinations of three PLO officials. But many Arabs blamed Israel. 
Palestinians in the Israeli­occupied territories poured into the streets to protest the assassinations, waving black mourning flags and the tricolor banner of Palestine. Israeli army gunfire killed three people and wounded 7 4. 
Israel flatly denied involvement. "We had nothing to do with it," Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Arens told ABC-TV. 
Killed Monday night were Salah Khalaf, second in command to PLO chairman Vasser Arafat; llayel Abdel­llamid. the PLO's security chief; and Abu Mohammed al-Omari, Khalafs chief bodyguard. 
Arafat returned Tuesday from Baghdad to the Tunis headquarters of the Palestine Liberation Organization, canceling a trip to Paris. The 1'1.0 eulogized Khalaf and Abdel-llamid as leaders who symbolized the Palestinian eause and lauded al-Omari as a 1'1.0 fighter. 
A stat11ment from Fatah, the main branch of the PLO, said the gunman. identified by the PLO and Tunisian officials as Ilamza Abu Zid. was a "planted agent who undertook dealing with traitorous parties." 
"This crime will never be left without punishment," the statement said. 
However, the statement 
dropped earlier PLO accusations that the killings were sponsored by Israel, and gave weight to reports the gunman was allied with Abu Nidal, Arafat's sworn enemy. 
There was no statement from Abu Nidal. 
PLO security sources said Abu Zid split from Abu Nidal, head of the Fatah­Revolutionary Council, during a mutiny in Libya. The sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Abu Zid came to Tunis six months ago and was hired as Abdel-Hamid's bodyguard. 
Palestinian sources said one gunman killed the three PLO officials. The Tunisian police report indicated there was one gunman. but Tunisian officials said other Palestinians were arrested. 
"All people implicated in this attack were arrested," the official TAP news agency reported, adding all are "Palestinians known to the PLO." Israeli army radio said as many as a dozen people were arrested. 
The police report made public Tuesday said the three men were killed with two Kalishnikov automatic rifles. Initial reports said the gunman used an AK-47 assault rifle. 
According to the police report. the gunman opened fire on Khalaf, Abdel-Hamid and al­Omari as they met at Abdel­Hamid's house in suburban Carthage. 
Neighbors reported hearing gunfire at intervals for nearly 15 minutes. 

The Observer page 7 

AP Photo

Gulf die-in 

Anti-war protestors stage a_ ?ie-in o~ a fog-shrouded corner in Santa Rosa, California, Monday. Twenty people were arrested for fa1hng to disperse and blocking traffic. 
N D Libraries receive jazz tapes 
Special to The Observer 
A historic collection of tapes from the Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival has been given to the University Libraries of Notre Dame by a 1979 alum­nus. Donated by Joseph Kuhn Carey of Chicago, the collection contains roughly 52 cassettes that document and preserve the music of early Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festivals (circa 1959-1966). 
The Carey collection includes the first recorded performances of many of today's top jazz musicians, among them David Sanborn, Paul Winter, Gene Bertoncini, Bunky Green, Billy Harper, Randy Brecker, Oscar Brashea~ and Dave Bunke~ Carey assembled the collection over the past seven years from a variety of sources, including old, fragile reel-to-reel tapes and limited issue festival recordings. They then were transferred to much more stable modern reel-to-reel and cassette form by Northwestern University music library techni­cians. 
In addition to the collection of early Collegiate Jazz Festival tapes, the University Libraries have received Carey's collection of "best" band/combo cassette tapes culled from 1985-1989 festivals. This collection con­sists of 40 cassettes and in-eludes tapes of participating University of Notre Dame big bands from these years. 
The collection currently is being cataloged and will be housed in the Hesburgh Li­brary's Renner Audio and Video Learning Center. Related printed material, including Carey's "Big Noise from Notre Dame: A History of the Colle­giate Jazz Festival," will also be available for use. 
The University Libraries will continue to develop the collec­tion by making efforts to secure other master tapes, records and cassettes in order that eventually all existing festival tapes may be preserved and made available at Notre Dame. 
Cancer Society awards grant to NO 
Special to The Observer 
The Cancer Society of St. Joseph County, an affiliate of United Health Services, has awarded a grant of $6,000 to Notre Dame for cancer research. 
Specifically, the money will go toward research being done by Subhash Basu, Professor and Chairman, Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology, and his team; the research focuses on stopping uncontrolled DNA synthesis in tumor or cancer cells. 
Joining Basu in his research are his wife, Manju Basu, three postdoctoral fellows, four graduate students and three undergraduate research students. 




If you've set your stghts on law school. there's no better LSAT preparallon than Stanley H Kaplan 
Our LSAT prep wtll open your eyes w11h score-raistng strategies and techntques We'll help you master everything from Analytical Rl'asonmg 10 Readmg Comprehension 
Our classes are ltve-and ltvely. And you can review lessons. and get .H.ldutonal help as needed tn our TEST-N-TAPE'" lab. open days. eventngs and weekends for your conventence. 
Vtstt our Center today and see for yourself And watch the scales tip in your favor 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 1717 £. SOOTH B£Nl AV£. SOUTH 8£Nl, IN 46637 219/272--IJIJ5 
2/9/91 LSA T Prep Class starts 1/21 /91. 
American Heart Association 


TECH MAJORS 3.0 =$30,000 
Ifyou're holding a grade point average of 
3.0 or higher you may be eligible for up to $1,100 a month plus bonuses, while you're still a student, through the Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Program. 
If you meet the requirements outlined below you could get your start in nuclear power where nuclear power got started-­the Navy. 
• 
United States citizen. 


• 
Have completed sophomore year, majoring in engineering, math, physics or chemistry. · 

• 
Minimum 3.0 GPA. 


• 
Have completed one year of calculus and calculus-based physics. 

• 
No more than 26\12 years old at time of commissioning. 

• 
Meet Navy's physical standards. 



FOR MORE INFORMATION: Call toll free 1-800-527-8836 
NAVY OFFICER You and the Navy. 
Full Speed Ahead. 
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, January 16, 1991 
American public of Arab stituted an exchange of threats Meissner, war would absorb support, the popular sentiment rather than a sincere attempt several times that cost, pulling
Gulf Protest 
in the Middle East is against to establish peace. The military the United States deeper into continued from page 1 continued from page 1 the United States and threatens escalation in the region has the deficit. 
war. He assured Iraq that once it begins a decisive withdrawal, its forces would not be at~ tacked. 
Perez de Cuellar said he also 
had promises "from the highest 
levels of government" that with 
the crisis over, "every effort will 
be made to address, in a 
comprehensive manner, the 
Arab-Israeli conflict, including 
the Palestinian question." 
That links the Persian Gulf crisis with the Palestinian issue, a connection the Iraqi president sought and the United States and Britain opposed. 
Perez de Cuellar's statement came six hours before expira­tion of the U.N. deadline. 
Bush somberly walked the White House grounds at dawn Tuesday, then met with his na­tional security advisers. 
The Defense Department said Iraqi forces in Kuwait were continuing to dig in against a multinational force that had grown to 680,000 -including 35,000 troops from Britain, 10,000 from France, 150,500 from Saudi Arabia and 38,500 from Egypt. The Pentagon said 
U.S. forces ran battle drills and flew air combat exercises in the hours before the deadline. 
NBC-TV News said Tuesday night that B-52 bombers had been moved to bases in a gulf country it did not identify. The Air Force has never conceded that B-52s have been assigned to Operation Desert Shield, but a detachment is known to have been based at Diego Garcia, in the Indian Ocean. 
Lt. Col. Stuart Wagner, a Pentagon spokesman, said he could not comment on the net­work report. 
Iraq's U.S. ambassador, Mo­hamed Sadiq Al-Mashat, left Washington with several aides Tuesday night on his way to London and then Baghdad. Four other Iraqi diplomats will remain at the embassy. 
Iraqi state TV said Saddam visited the front in occupied Kuwait on Tuesday. It said he toured military zones around Kuwait and the Iraqi city of Basra, just north of the emirate invaded and conquered by Iraq Aug. 2. 
Saddam met corps and divi­sion commanders and repeated that Iraq would not submit to the U.N. resolution demanding withdrawal. 
"There will be no compromise on the nation's rights. The slogan of expelling the aggressors from the land of Islamic sanctity will be our slogan which we will not give up," he was quoted as saying. 
France said its last-minute initiative to avoid war drew a blank. "There is a fatal moment where one must act," French Prell)ier Michel Rocard told lawmakers Tuesday night. "This moment has, alas, ar­rived -after we have done ev­erything to avoid it." 
Rare rain fell in parts of the Saudi Arabian desert, where hundreds of thousands of American troops stood grimly ready to do battle. 
In Washington, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, ''I would say that the president is at peace with him­self. He's ready to make the tough decisions ahead that are necessary." 
Fitzwater said a decision on launching an attack against Iraq was likely to come "sooner rather than later" after the deadline. 
to undo alliances in the case of only hardened each side in its She stressed that the "costs of this reason, he simultaneously a U.S. initiated offensive strike. respective position. war in the Gulf are too high a 
refuses to authorize the Test price to pay ... cost which will Ban Treaty which 118 other 
•"Economic sanctions have Meissner also addressed the be born primarily by our gener­nation, including "Iraq, have not worked." considerable cost for the United ations and generations to already endorsed. This treaty Meissner: "Economic sanc­States as a result of a war in come." 
would place restrictions on and tions, by definition, require the Persian Gulf. Most tragic,carefully monitor the 
time to make their impact felt; she stated, would be the loss of "It is not yet too late... We development and and produc­
but they have already estab­life. "The Center for Defense owe it to ourselves and to our 
tion of chemical , biological and lished the internationally signif­Information estimates that the country and to the world to ex­nuclear weapons in every na­icant lesson that Iraq's aggres­U.S. could be expected to ercise our democratic right and 
tion in the world." The threat of 
sion did not pay." sustain approximately 45,000 responsibility to make our rea­war only promotes the use of casualties, about 10,000 of sons clear and our voice heard: _these weapons. 
Approximately 97% of Iraq's which would be deaths, and We will not support a war in income and 90% of its imports possibly 1,000 missing in action the Gulf." 
•U.S.: "We must ensure sta­have been cut off and, already, and prisoners of war." 
bility in the Middle East. In par­43% of Iraq's and Kuwait's In his address, Cortwirghtticular, we are obligated to Gross National Product has 
The Iraqi military would suf­spoke of a "terrible irony." The 
protect the security of our ally, been shutdown. "This is fer an even greater loss of ap­date which commemorates Israel." 
prompting the progressive at­proximately 35,000 fatalities of Martin Luther King, a "prophet trition of Iraq's economy and 150,000 casualties. Civilian ca­of peace," is the same date 
Meissner: Middle East experts 
war-making abilities." sualties might exceed 100,000. which brings our nation to the agree that if the U.N. combined However, these tactics have not "brink of war." forces launches an attack on been allowed sufficient oppor­These estimates, said Meiss­Iraq, unprecedented chaos tunity undermine Saddam's ef­ner, are the result of a "quick He said that although the would ensue. Saddam has forts and move towards a strike" to oust Iraq from history of foreign politics re­
threatened an attack on Israel. peaceful solution. Kuwait, namely, the first ten quires the public to "close "By drawing Israel into the 
days. ranks around the president" in conflict, Hussein would hope to 
•"We have exhausted our a time of crisis, an action that pull Arabs of the anti-Iraq diplomatic options; Iraq refuses Furthermore, the economic is wrong today is not right to­
coalition and transform the war to negotiate." costs of war have, because of morrow. into an Arab versus U.S. and 
the escalation, exceeded the 
Israeli war." Meissner: "Six hours in original projection of $15 bil­According to Cartwright, the Geneva does not amount to ex­lion a year for 200,000 troops best way to support American Although Secretary of State haustive diplomacy." In addi­to $74 billion for a noncombat troops is to "work diplomati­
James Baker has assured the tion, these meetings have con-force of 415,000. According to cally to bring them home." 

TO: The Notre Dame Community FROM: The Staff of the Center for Social Concerns DATE: January 15, 1991 RE: Statement Concerning The Persian Gulf Conflict 
Our return to campus this spring semester of 1991 is over­shadowed by the possibility of war in the Middle East. We at the Center for Social Concerns cannot ignore this conflict. We are
Center for 


committed to carrying out our mission of integrating justice and peace into everyday life which is based on our belief in biblical

Concerns 

tradition, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and Catholic Social Teaching. Our understanding of our mission as it reflects our faith tradition leads us to believe that in this situation war is wrong. 
We know that our entire community is searching for ways to Box F respond to this crisis. We offer to the community the resources Notre Dame. IN and hospitality of our Center to assist in this process. At this time 
46556 

the following ways of participating in the community process occur to us: 
1. The Center will be available as a meeting place for informal
219-2'9-5142 

219-239-5319 discussions, lectures, educational events, strategizing and prayer. 
2. 
There will be a prayer vigil in the Center for Social Concerns Reflection Room from 5 p.m., Wednesday, January 16 until 10 p.m., Thursday, January 17. Please sign up for times at the reception desk. 

3. 
The Center staff will be working with the existing Gulf Crisis Group and other campus entities to develop strategies of response. 

4. 
The Center will cooperate with the effort of Campus Ministry to support members of the community who are forming their consciences on ethical issues of war and peace. 

5. 
The Center offers its resources to coordinate a networking effort for the Notre Dame community. 


If you are interested in participating in any of these efforts or if you have suggestions for us, please call 239-5293. 
Michael Affleck Carol Porter Sue Cunningham Mary Ann Roemer Patty Flynn Kathy Royer Ardis King Kathleen Maas Weigert Eugene McClory
University of Notre Dame 


Wednesday, January 16, 1991 The Observer page 9 

Enrollment in Indiana colleges is up slightly 
Special to The Observer schools. Five of the state's seven public universities re­
Statewide enrollment among ported more students on their Indiana colleges is up, but the campuses, led by Purdue and growth is smaller than in pre­Indiana universities. Indiana vious years, according to a re­State University in Terre Haute 
port issued by the Purdue Uni­and Vincennes University, a versity registrar's office. two-year institution, reportedStudent enrollment at the slight enrollment decreases. 
state's 42 colleges and universi­Overall, the state schools were ties is 280,148-an increase of able to keep freshman student slightly more than 1 percent populations up with people re­from last year, said Thomas enrolling after their first ses­Gunderson, executive associate sions of college was completed.registrar. The fall 1989 en­Although statewide enroll­rollment increase was 3.05 per­ments are holding steady now, cent over the previous year's the outlook is not bright, in enrollment. Gunderson and his Gunderson's view. "In 1995, staff prepared the report for we'll see a slight increase in the Indiana Conference of births 18 years previously, but Higher Education. there will generally be fewer 
Although overall enrollment and fewer young people after increased, the number of first­then," he said. 
time college students has de­The smaller recruiting poolcreased for the second will increase the competitionconsecutive year. That among the traditional collegedecrease is not particularly campuses, Gunderson said. 
surprising, Gunderson said. "I'm sure a lot of effort will "It's something we've been go into maintaining our en­expecting for 18 years, since rollment [at Purdue's West Plea for Peace The Observer/E.G.Bailey [the students] have been born," Lafayette campus] at 36,000 he said. students," he said. "In the fu­
Janet Meissner, ND graduate student and co-Chairperson of the Gulf Crisis Action Group, spoke at a group "The number of births is the 
ture, that means we'll have to 
• 
demonstration and prayer service Tuesday. Meissner focused on the considerable costs of war in the basis for projecting enrollment increase the percentage of peo­Persian Gulf and ur ed Americans to adequate! evaluate non-military options to address the crisis. and, frankly, the population is ple who go on to college and declining." we'll have to be more competi­So far, the baby bust has not tive with other schools in trying

greatly affected most Indiana to attract students." 
i 
Acting troupe to perform 
comedy at Notre Dame 
Special to The Observer powered by stunning visual im­agery. Like other pieces by 
i 
• 
The comedy Fortune: The Theatre Grottesco, Fortune is a Rise and Fall of a Small For­tightly woven piece of theatre­tune Cookie Factory, performed dance where the actors define by Theatre Grottesco, will be both space and time without presented by the Notre Dame the aid of a set. Theatrical im­
Department of Communication agery is created through the and Theatre at Washington Hall marriage of movement and the Feb. 27 through March 3. spoken word. Theatre Grottesco is a touring 
ensemble with increasing In addition to the perfor­national popularity. The com­mances, Theatre Grottesco will pany's stage style has been de­present a lecture-demonstra­scribed as "wonderful mad­tion of its theatrical style at 7 ness" and takes its name from p.m. Feb. 25 at Washingtonthe Italian word "grottesco," Hall. The week-long residencywhich means unusual, comic, also will include visits to acting outrageous and larger than life. classes in Notre Dame's De­
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
The ensemble is an interna­partment of Communication tional group formed in Paris and Theatre.DAYTONA BEACH from $119* nearly a decade ago. In 1987, The visit of Theatre Grottesco 
the company moved to Detroit. to Michiana is sponsored by 
: 
.AMERICANO, RAMADA INN, VOYAGER OR DESERT INN HOTELS &KITCHENETTES • 5OR 7 NIGHTS Fortune is a touching story of Arts Midwest members and a small family-owned cookie friends in partnership with the factory on the brink of National Endowment for the 
from
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND $}29* bankruptcy. A destitute novel­Arts and special assistance 
ists applies for the job of mes­from Hudson's department
SHERATON CONDOS &HOTEL, GULF VIEW &LANDFALL TOWER CONDOS, OR HOUDAY INN • 5OR 7NIGHTS 
sage writer for the fortune stores. cookies, is hired and turns the Curtain for performances of
STEAMBOAT frnm $96* fortunes of the company com­Fortune: The Rise and Fall of a pletely around. As the company Small Fortune Cookie Factory
•


SHADOW RUN CONDOS OR OVERLOOK HOTEL • 2, 5 OR 7 NIGHTS WITH AU liFTS • PICNIC · RACE enjoys the meteoric rise in pop­
will be 8:10 p.m. Feb 27 to ularity, it also is faced with the March 2. The March 3 perfor­FORT LAUDERDALE $}37* struggle against pride and mance will begin at 3:10p.m.
from 1
avarice. An expressionistic Tickets are $7 for reserved 
1 
LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEl • 1 NIGHTS melodrama unfolds as the seats and are available at the strain of success pulls the com­door of in advance at LaFor­
1 
pany apart, and Fortune hits tune Student Center Box Office. 1 
fmm
PANAMA CITY BEACH $}24* hard with humor and whimsy Student and senior citizen tick­, to expose the foibles of con­ets are available at $5 each for
TOURWAY INN OR THE REEF KITCHENETTES • 7 NIGHTS 
temporary America. the Wednesday, Thursday, and Grottesco's original plays are Sunday performances.
i 1 ~ 1 
:• fromCORPUS CHRISTI/MUSTANG ISLAND $}08* 
HOLIDAY INN OR PORT ROYAL OCEAN RESORT CONDOS • 5 OR 7NIGHTS
: 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND $112*
from 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND BEACH & TENNIS RESORT CONDOS • 7NIGHTS 
DON'T DELAY! 

CENTRAL SPRING BREAK ~~}HNFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 




-E~~ 1·800·321·5911 
7AM·7PM M·Th, 7AM·5PM Fri. 9AM·5PM Sll. Mounlain Slandard Time Rerervalions may be made by credil card 
IICEH~!1 il 
:•: 

24 HOUR FAX RESERVATIONS ($031 225·1514 
•Otprnrlm(} on Olttlk dtlft.~ Jlld lf'nglfr Ol sf.h 

Give to the United Way.
: 
'V 






-
Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, January 16, 1991 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303  
1990-91 General Board  
Editor-In-Chief  
Alison Cocks  
Managing Editor Business Manager  
John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor  
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger  
VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert  
Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton  
Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick  
Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson  
Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  
accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the  
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent  
Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside  
Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of  
the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters,  
is encouraged. '  
EDITORIAL  
Bush's rhetoric fails  
in letter to students  
r r  This week The Observer, along with 459 other col­leges, received a copy of the "Presidential Letter to  
~  College Students". After months of peace protests on college campuses,  
r  President Bush is attempting to solicit student support  
for the U.S. presence in the Gulf via college newspapers.  
This letter has spurred controversy at colleges across  
the country. Editors' opinions have varied on whether to  
print the message. The Observer's editorial board  
believes we are obligated to run this letter in today's  
issue and are opposed to efforts by other editors to  
censor the President's statement. We also feel obligated  
to express our opinion about the message's content and  
f  tone.  
r  Although we commend President Bush's effort to.  
correspond with his colle~e-age constituents, we resent  
his approach, which rehes on a condescending tone  
rather than fact. His analogies, including a scenario of  
armed men forcefully taking over a home,  
underestimate the intelligence of the average student.  
The letter, while it presents several "ideals" related to  
our presence in the Gulf, fails to address more concrete  
~  concerns. As college students the "right vs. wrong" ideal  
r  is obvious. We need information about other aspects of  
r  this crisis that President Bush has skirted until now. His  
r  rhetoric fails to address the actual importance of oil in  
r  this crisis and neglects to state that a war in the Persian  
Gulf is not just America's war but a international effort  
stemming from a United Nations' resolution.  
His anecdote about S.F.C. Terry Hatfield is an example  
of the ideal American soldier. However, as a nation we  
have seen major protests about our involvement in the  
Gulf crisis. We also know that Hatfield's sentiments are  
not held by the majority of either the troops stationed in  
Saudi Arabia or of the American public. Many others  
stationed in Saudi Arabia are not as ready to give up  
their lives for this cause.  
There are concrete reasons for our presence in the  
Gulf. Instead of exploring these reasons in his letter,  
Bush offers emotional appeals and useless rhetoric. It is  
impossible for the Amencan people to draw informed  
conclusions, whether they are for or against President  
Bush's actions, from the President's statement. We  
decided it was important for our readers to read the  
r  statement, but we regret that it is of little use in making  
r  sense of a complicated situation.  
r  
r  
r  DOONESBURY  
r  
/JS 70 PO IT FOR. lH/3111 J/JST



Dear Editor: 
During the past semester, the staff of Campus Ministry has been preparing to offer a new counseling service for students who wish to examine or under­stand more deeply their own positions with regard to some ethical dimensions of war and peace issues. The immediate catalyst for this concern, of course, is what has been taking place in the Middle East since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. 
The focus of this counseling is to provide students with in­formation they need in order to come to decisions they can hold in good conscience. This is, therefore, a delicate matter which will require honesty, re­spect, openness and objectivity on the part of everyone con­cerned. 
The Catholic Church is not a "Peace Church" as such, as the Mennonites are. The Catholic tradition supports both the right of a person to be a con­scientious objector and the obligation of a legitimate gov­ernment to protect its citizens, even though this might require the use of lethal force. This use of force, however, is always tempered by the requirement that the moral principles of discrimination and proportion­ality be applied to the circum­stances as determinative fac­tors. This is a requirement of the Just War theory, which has been in our possession since the time of Augustine. 

The reason for such caution to use force is because a morally acceptable exception is being acknowledged to the commandment that we not kill because of the sanctity of all human life. The biggest concern students may be whether they believe it is morally acceptable for them, personally, to be a participants in the use of lethal force under any circumstance. 
Some students may wish to explore the question of consci­entious objection or selective conscientious objection. They may wish to understand these questions and concepts more fully from a Christian perspec­tive. Or they may wish to dis­cuss the legal consequences of taking such a position and how one goes about "formation of conscience" with regard to these issues. 
Still others might already know that they are, in fact, conscientious objectors and 
wish to explore how to go about documenting such a claim. 
Forty faculty members have volunteered to assist Campus Ministry in this effort, should their services be required. A four-part series of presentations and discussions will take place early this semester to provide us with common elements which will hopefully enable us to assist those who might seek our advice. 
All students should feel free to avail themselves of this service. Conversations will be treated with due respect for confidentiality. 
If you are interested, please stop by the Campus Ministry of­fice (103 Hesburgh Library Concourse) to make an ap­pointment. 
Regardless of your personal position with regard to these issues, it is clearly time for all of us to pray for peace. And it is time for us to assume our Christian obligation to pursue justice so that peace might be possible. 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. Counselor to the President Director, Campus Ministry 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
7HI3'1RE NOT/~R£5Ta) IN
11./&U., IF THeRE IS GRa.JN{}ACfl()-J 
/Jefl5NI?IN6 7Hf31R. CWNTRY; MIW. 
'Sometimes, I feel the past and 
7H/3Y'V/3 HII<W lH/3 8RJ7S ANl?
TOI¥1~ MAN, 7HI3 
5AU{}I TRCXJPS ~ 
the future pressing so hard on
UK£ 7H/3Y r30T /3GYPTIANS 70
CAT(H IT FIRST. 
P/JMP 7Ht!R OIL-, ANf/ 
either side that there is no room 
!3ANG!.Al?&911 70 

for the present at all.'
1 HAU/...-TH&IR 
GAR.J3Jl613.' 

r 
r 
r 
Evelyn Waugh 

--------------~-----------------------------------------­
-
Viewpoint
Wednesday, January 16, 1991 
page 11 

Support of college· students im 
Editor's Note: of human rights have been per­
The following is an open let­petrated by Iraqi forces ... arbi­ter to American college stu­trary arrest and detention dents from President Bush de­without trial of thousands... fending U.S. intervention in the widespread torture...imposition Gulf The letter was sent to 460 of the death penalty and the ex­college newspapers across the trajudicial execution of hun­nation. dreds of unarmed civilians, in­
cluding children." Dear Editor: Including children. There's no 
If armed men invaded a home horror that could make this a in this country, killed those in more obvious conflict of good thtlir way. stole what they vs. evil. The man who used wantnd and then announced the chemical warfare on his own house was now theirs. no one people -once again including would hesitate about what must children -now oversees public be done. And that is why we hangings of dissenters. And 
we obligation waiting. God Bless you and the and perfecting his chemical and
cannot hesitate about what daily his troops commit atroci­-to stop ruthless aggression. U.S.A." biological weapons capability.
must be done halfway around ties against Kuwaiti citizens. 
I have been in war. I have Terry understands the moral Another day of atrocities forthe world: in Kuwait. There is This brutality has reverber­known the terror of combat. obligation that has compelled Amnesty International to doc­much in the modern world that ated throughout the entire And I tell you this with all my our extraordinary multi-na­ument. Another day of interna­is subject to doubts or questions world. If we do not follow the heart: I don't want there to be tional coalition to make this tional outlaws, instead of in­-washed in shades of gray. dictates of our inner moral war ever again. I am deter­stand in the Gulf. To look this ternational law. 
But not the brutal aggression of compass and stand up for hu­mined to do absolutely every­international terrorist straight I ask you to think about theSaddam Hussein against a man life, then his lawlessness thing possible in the search for in the eye and say: no conces­economic devastation'thatpnaceful, sovereign nation and will threaten the peace and a peaceful resolution to this sions. To proclaim for now and Saddam Hussein would con­its people. It's black and white. democracy of the emerging New crisis -but only if the peace is for the future: no compromises. tinue to wreak on the world'sThe facts are clear. The choice, World Order we now see: this genuine, if it rests on principle, To bear witness by our pres­emerging democracies if heunambiguous. long dreamed-of vision we've not appeasement. ence to the fact that aggression were in control of one-fifth of
Right vs. wrong. all worked toward for so long. 
But while we search for that will not be rewarded. the world's oil reserves. And toThe terror Saddam Hussein 
answer, in the Gulf young men reflect on the terrible threathas imposed upon Kuwait vio­A year after the joyous dawn 
and women are putting their Terry waits thousands of that a Saddam Hussein armed
lates every principle of human of freedom's light in Eastern own lives on hold in order to miles from the White House, yet with weapons of mass destruc­decency. Listen to what Europe, a dark evil has de­stand for peace in our world we share the same thoughts. tion already poses to human life Amnesty lntnrnational has doc­scended in another part of the and for the essential value of We desperately want peace. But and to the future of all nations. 
umtmted: "Widespread abuses world. But we have the chance human life itself. Many are we know that to reward ag­Together, as an America younger than my own children. gression would be to end the united against these horrors, Your age, most of them. Doing promise of our New World we can, with our coalition tough duty for something they Order. To reward aggression partners, assure that this ag­believe in. would be to destroy the United gression is stopped and the 
Fighting in war is not worth 
sacrificing moral beliefs 
Let me tell you about one of Nation's promise as interna­principles on which this nation Dear Editor: 11ict into a fight of Good vs. Evil. the soldiers over there, S.F.C. tional peacekeeper. To reward and the rest of the civilized 
With the conl1ict escalating in In war, humanity, compassion is Terry Hatfield, a young man aggression would be to condone world are founded are pre­the Persian Gulf. and as the swept under the rug. Does a from Georgia. He sent me a the acts of those who would served. possibility of the draft being soldier even consider that his Christmas card. And this is desecrate the promise of human reinstated grows, each male in enemy has a family, children, what he wrote: "Mr. President, I life itself. And we will do none And so let us remember and 
the U.S. 1M or over faces a dreams and goals just as he just wanted you to know my of this. The are times in life support Terry Hatfield, all our dilemma. Each man must an­does? No. The enemy is "one of soldiers and I are ready to do when we confront values worth fine servicemen and women, as swer for himself the question of them." whatever mission you decide. fighting for. This is one such they stand ready on the frontier whether or not he is willing to Freedom as we know and enjoy time. of freedom, willing to do their 
light and die for whatever the War causes people to forget has been taken away from an­Each day that passes means duty and do it well. They de­
objectives of Operation Desert humanity and compassion. But other country and must be re­another day for Iraq's forces to serve our complete and enthu­
Shield are. humanity and compassion are stored. Although we are sepa­dig deeper into their stolen siastic support -and lasting what make us more than just rated from family, friends, loved land. Another day Saddam gratitude. This question isn't simply one logic machines, and I will never ones, we will do what must be Hussein can work toward President George Bush 
of patriotism. The choice can't forget them. I do not believe in done ... We stand ready and building his nuclear arsenal Jan. 8, 1991 be made based on the answer killing. to the question, "Do you love I am not here to present solu­your country?" -"yes" you go, tions to the Gulf Crisis. My pur­"no" you don't. It's not that pose here is to question the easy. It is a moral question-do morality of war. Is the Fifth you believe in the resolving of commandment not applicable conflicts by fighting and killing? during war? Does war mean I do not. morality is suspended? If one 
doesn't kill during times of 
I've been called the peace, why is it suddenly okay names-"sunshine patriot," to do so in times of war? "pacifist" and, worst of all, "wimp." I love this country as I am sure that those willing to much or more than any soldier. fight for their country have I simply do not consider fighting good reason, and I commend and killing an option in them for their conviction. But resolving conflict. I have not my conviction is just as strong been in a fight since second as theirs. I do not fear death. I grade-he hit me first. I have fear the moral consequences of never encountered a conflict killing another man. This coun­that couldn't be solved by try is without a doubt the best peaceful means. No, I will not in the world. But will I kill for kill, no matter the cause. it? No matter how much I love 
In the war of ambiguities that the United States, I will not kill. is being fought right now, each side attempts to portray the Matt Umhofer other as the great evil, the ab­Flanner Hall solute wrong. This makes con-Dec. 14, 1990 
l 
Dear Editor: U.S. Supreme Court asserts that ten months, more Americans The St. Joseph Valley Chapter 22. This March for Life will be 
Tuesday, Jan. 22 will be the one class of living human are killed by legal abortion than of the Knights of Columbus is at the Federal Courthouse in eighteenth anniversary of a pair beings-the unborn-has no were killed in all of the wars holding its annual March for downtown South Bend begin­of Supreme Court decisions intrinsic value and may there­ever fought by the United Life on Sunday, Jan. 20. This ning at noon and ending at 1 jwhich made abortion legal in fore be disposed of in any way States. March for Life will depart from p.m. the United States. These chosen by an individual preg­the Knights of Columbus l decisions declared that human nant woman, including death. Most Americans greatly value Council 553 Hall, 815 N. I invite you to speak out for life in the womb does not fit the all human life: unborn and Michigan Street, at 1:30 p.m. the right to life of unborn hu­
i 
definition of person as used in The magnitude of this born, young and old, poor and and proceed to St. Patrick man beings in more than Article V of the U.S. American tragedy cannot be rich, rejected and wanted. Church, 309 S. Taylor Street. thoughts and prayers, in more Constitution's Bill of Rights: " .. overstated. Three unborn Because no unborn human be­There, an hour-long inter-faith than late-night dorm room dis­No person shall be...deprived of Americans are killed every ing can speak in its own behalf, program including songs, cussions. Participate in either life ... without due process of minute of every day by legal we must speak for it. Some prayer and three speakers will or both of the Marches for Life 
-
law." abortion. Every day, about Notre Dame students are going be held beginning at approxi­that will be held in South Bend 4,320 Americans are killed by to Washington, DC, to partici­mately 2:15p.m. this year. 
Yet, the medical evidence is legal abortion. Every 12 days, pate in the national March for overwhelming that a living hu­more Americans are killed by Life. For those who cannot go to The St. Joseph County Right Rev. Ronald J. Wasowski. man being exists from the mo­legal abortion than were killed Washington, there are two to Life is holding its annual C. S.C. ment of fertilization. Thus, the in the VietNam war. And every similar events in South Bend: March for Life on Tuesday, Jan. Jan. 15. 1991 

-



Accent 
page 12 Wednesday, January 16, 1991 
Comedy whodunit reigns 
as Chicago's favorite play


'Shear Madness' 

BY PAIGE SMORON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
"We curl up and dye for you!" 
That's the way Tony, the gloriously gay hairstylist at Shear Madness, answers the phone. Maybe it's bad luck, because every night, upstairs from Tony's salon, a woman is stabbed to death with a pair of scissors. And you have to decide who the murderer is. 
SUB is sponsoring a trip to see this hairy (sorry) murder mystery on Friday, February 1. Tickets are selling for $15, which includes transportation, at the LaFortune Information Desk until Friday. 
"Shear Madness" is now in its eighth season in Chicago at the Mayfair Theatre and is famous for its boisterous audience participation. Set in Chicago and filled with local character and reference galore ­including plenty of Cubs jokes -the play recounts the events surrounding the murder of a world-renowned concert pianist in her apartment above the Shear Madness unisex hair salon, fictitiously located at 38 E. Oak Street. 
The actors become suspects and the audience becomes armchair detectives in this game of cat-and­mouse that changes every night. Is it the homosexual proprietor? Is it the bimbo hairdresser? Is it her slimy boyfriend? Could it be the undercover cop? "Whichever way you vote, that's the way we'll play it," promises cast member Jaye Tyrone Stewart. 
Since opening in 1982, the show has broken the Broadway long-run record for a play, is currently the longest-running play in Chicago city history and has twice been chosen "Best Play of the Year" by the Chicago Tribune's annual readers' poll. And in response to the most frequently asked question, yes, the hair dryers really work. 
Tickets are also available to Saint Mary's students, who are encouraged to attend. Any questions about the performance can be addressed to Pat Smith, 283­3537. 
Since its op_ening in 1982, the cast of "Shear Madness" has enjoyed a longevity that has exhausted an impressi'l!e number of props,
zncludzng: 

•32,250 
gallons of water; 

•12,900 
ounces each of shampoo and hair conditioner; 

•64,500 
towels; 

•14,512 
tic tacs; 

•11,287 
sticks of chewing gum; 

•3,612 
cannisters of shaving foam; 

•408 
bottles of nail polish; 

•849 
rolls of paper towels; 

•750 
cans of hair spray; 

•195 
pounds of coffee; 

•157 
bottles of stage blood; 


And Mrs. Shubert has had her hair set 3,225 times. 
(Above) Three of the central characters of 'Shear Madness' display a scene from the show. The play is Chicago's longest running and remains one of its most popular. 

(Right) SUB is sponsoring a February 1 trip to Chicago to see the whimsical whodunit 'Shear Madness.' For $15 students recieve bus transportation to the Mayfair Theatre in Chicago and a ticket to the show. Students can sign up for the trip at the LaFortune Information Desk. 

'Godfather Ill': A movie you can't refuse 
By COLLEEN CRONIN and JOHN FISCHER 
Accent Writers 
It is not too often that the se­quel to a movie is as good as the original. But in the case of the "Godfather" movies, I and II were two of the best gangster movies ever filmed and are difficult to rival. After a long wait, "Godfather III" came out over Christmas and though it was not as good as the first two, it is by no means a bad movie. 
"Godfather Ill," directed by Francis Ford Coppola, contin­ues the saga of the Corleone family, once a great bastion of the mafia in New York. It is set in the late 1970s and Michael Corleone is still trying to erase his family's mafia connections and to go legitimate. His plan never quite works. He becomes involved in some questionable business dealings with the Catholic church and things run amuck. 
There are a few good "shoot 'em up" scenes, though their frequency and intensity does not nearly approach that of the first two "Godfather" movies. The plots and subplots start to pile up and confuse the audi­ence, and none of them are re­ally resolved. It's a noble at­tempt, but when this movie claims credit for the assassina­tion of the Pope, it's trying to do too much. 
Many of the established Godfather staples are present in the third installment. Most impressive is the big rubout se­quence that finishes each movie. Accompanied by a hap­tism in the first film, the final bloodbath this time is inter­twined with an opera in which Michael's son stars. 
The cast of the first two movies returns for "Godfather Ill," including AI Pacino as the Godfather. Once again Pacino is superb. Acting in the famed "operatic style" of the first two movies, Pacino reaches his peak as Michael, with at least three scenes that top his previous work as the Corleone family's leader. 
Talia Shire reprises her feisty role as Michael's sister and adds to the traditional element of the movie. Her character has transformed more than anyone since the last picture. Once a hanger-on in her own family, she has emerged with a powerful, driven personality, and at times is more confident than even Michael. 

There are two new faces with integral roles, Andy Garcia as Vincent, Michael's illegitimate nephew, and Sofia Coppola as Mary, Michael's daughter. Garcia plays his role skillfully, transforming on screen from the brash headstrong back­street mobster to the smooth protege'of Pacino. 
However, Coppola's acting is less than amateurish. At times, she is required to cast longing glances towards Garcia, and it is almost painful to watch. Thankfully, there isn't a lot of skin in this movie. It's obvious she got the role solely because she is the director's daughter. 
This is one of the few mis­takes which Coppola made in a nearly flawlwss movie. Though most pictures would be though highly of if described as "almost flawless," this description is not quite a compliment to a Godfather film. The audience has been spoiled on the first two. Perfection is the measure of complete success for a "Godfather," and while the first two deliver, the third falls oh­so-short of this mark. 
If you enjoyed the first two "Godfather" movies definitely see "Godfather Ill," but keep in mind that it is difficult to do better than the first two movies. If you decide to have a "Godfather" party and rent the first two, I recommend waiting a few weeks to see "Ill" so you are not disappointed. It is a "must-see," though, and it closes the trilogy nicely. 

Wednesday, January 16, 1991 
The Observer page 13 

Beth Daniels named 1990 Female Athlete of the Year 
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) ­
Beth Daniel has always 
possessed tremendous talent 
-and a temper to go with it. 
"The main thing that I have 
always felt Beth needed to 
conquer was her emotions," 
Gary Meredith, Daniel's 
former coach at Furman, 
said. "She wanted to win so 
bad that she would let it 
overcome her. I said that if 
she was ever able to handle 
that, there'd be no stopping 
her." 
Daniel has finally curbed 
her temper. And it's showing. 
The 34-year-old golfer has 
won 11 LPGA events over two 
years, including seven in 
1990 and on Tuesday was 
named The Associated Press' 
Female Athlete of the Year. 
For the year, Daniel was the tour's leading money-winner $863,578 and also took the Vare Trophy for the second straight year with a low stroke average of 70.54. She also captured her first major tournamnnt with a victory in the LPGA Championship. 
Daniel received 28 first­place votes and 198 points overall in balloting by a national panel of AP-member sports writers and broadcasters. Voters were asked to cast ballots for the top three athletes. Points were awarded on a 5-3-1 basis. 
Jennifer Capriati, the teen­age sensation who made her pro tennis debut last year, was second with 21 first­place votes and 184 points. Two other tennis stars ­Stem Graf, the 1989 Female Athlete of the Year, and Monica Seles -were third and fourth. Graf had 17 first­place votes and 142 points, while Seles had seven firsts and 110 points. 
Golfer Betsy King was fifth with 10 firsts and 97 points. 
Daniel, frustrated at not 
winning, nearly quit the tour 
in 1989. 
"I felt like I was going to 
have to quit," Daniel said. 
Meredith said Daniel has al­
ways had problems putting. 
In hopes of helping her, he 
recommended she hook up 
with short-game coach Dave 
Pelz of Austin, Texas. She 
took Meredith's advice and 
also worked with the late 
Davis Love II, a golf teacher, 
and her older brother Tony, a 
sometime caddie. 
The assistance paid off. In 
August 1989, she won the 
Greater Washington Open ­
a victory that restored her 
confidence. She went on to 
win three more titles that 
year and finished with a 
stroke average of 70.38 and 
$504,851 in winnings. 
The momentum carried into 
1990, when she won her first 
major, the LPGA 
Championship. Her seven 
victories last year were more 
than any woman pro since 
Nancy Lopez won eight in 
1979. 
"Last year (1989) was a 
phenomenal year, but this 
year (1990) surpassed even 
my own dreams," Daniel said 
recently after being named 
LPGA Player of the Year. 
Others certainly noticed. 
"In the last couple of years, Beth has done what people expected of her earlier," said Judy Rankin, ABC golf analyst and winner of 26 titles from 1962-86. 
After leaving Furman, Daniel was an immediate hit on the tour. She won the Patty Berg Classic in 1979 and was named Rookie of the Year. The next year, she won four titles and $231,000 to be named Player of the Year. 
But her temper kept getting in the way. She threw clubs, screamed at her caddies and glared when asked questions she didn't like. 

War could cancel Super Bowl 
NEW YORK (AP) -Super 

Bowl advertisers are sticking 
by their decisions to pay record 
prices for commercial time in 
the scheduled Jan. 27 NFL 
championship game telecast 
but are keeping a wary eye on 
Persian Gulf developments. 
"We are going to take our 

lead from the NFL," said 
Randal Donaldson, a 
spokesman for Coca-Cola Co. 
which has bought multiple 
commercials for a multimillion 
dollar promotional game 
toutiung its diet cola. 
On Monday, the NFL said it 

had no plans to postpone play­
off games in view of the Persian 
Gulf crisis. 
"If events during the next 

three weeks lead us to re-eval­
uate our plans, we will make 
an announcement to that effect 
at that time," said spokesman 
Greg Aiello. 
In addition to the Super Bowl 

on Jan. 27, conference champi­
onship games are this Sunday, 
four days after the United 
Nation's deadline for Iraq to 
leave Kuwait, and the Pro Bowl 
is Feb. 3. 
The NFL's statement came after the trade magazine Advertising Age reported the NFL would consider postponing the Super Bowl at Tampa, Fla., if war breaks out in the gulf. 
The postponement could cre­ate problems for advertisers who have created elaborate promotions tied to their spon­sorships and for ABC Television, which stands to col­lect about $45 million in rev­enue from commercial sales. 
Jake Keever, executive vice president of sports sale for ABC, said all but one of 56 30­second commercial spots in the game itself have been sold to 22 advertisers at just over $800,000 apiece, up from $700,000 last year. 
Asked if sponsors are wary about holding the game should war erupt, Keever said "I haven't heard anything from any advertiser." 
ABC Sports spokesman Mark Mandel said, "We are telling 
advertisers that the game is on 
and we are going to televise it." 
Coca-Cola's Donaldson said 
the NFL appears to be taking "a 
very obvious and sane position 
at this point" toward plans for 
the game. 
"They are going to see what 
the world situation is as the 
Super Bowl approaches," he 
said. "We are paying close at­
tention to what they are doing." 
The Atlanta-based soft drink maker plans to use its commer­cial time for a game in which customers will try to find a hidden message in the more than 7 5 million game pieces that are being distributed. 
Arch-rival Pepsi-Cola Co. has also bought a big chunk of time before, during and after the game to run ads that will invite viewers to call a toll-free num­ber to qualify for prizes. The top prizes are three $1 million awards and winners will be an­nounced in the post-game commercial. 
Rebecca Madeira, a Pepsi spokeswoman in Purchase, N.Y., said it is premature to say whether developments in the gulf will make it inappropriate to have the football game on schedule. 
The Super Bowl historically has attracted advertisers who are willing to pay a hefty price to get their messages before 
what usually proves to be tele 
vision's biggest audience of the 
year. 
Some have created elaborate 
campaigns around the game 
Anheuser-Busch Inc., for ex 
ample, has been using ads for 
weeks to tout its third "Bud 
Bowl" game that will be played 
out in Super Bowl ads with 
beer bottles outfitted with 
football helmets. 
Other often use the game as a platform for a new product or campaign. 
Nike Inc. reportedly plans t0 introduce a new running show Air 180, during the game, whil e rival L.A. Gear Inc. will run an ad for its new Catapult shoes that will feature Utah Jazz basketball star Karl Malone. 
Audi of America Inc., the auto importer based in Troy, Mich., 
..
is in the game for the first time and plans to launch a new ad­vertising campaign. 
Spokesman Joseph Bennett said Audi is not changing its plans to be on the broadcast. "If they have a Super Bowl, we will be there. We are going to bow to what the NFL decides," he said. 
Gillette Co., another Super Bowl advertiser, is also defer­ring to the NFL on whether the game should proceed on sched­ule. 
UNLV will wear US flags 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -UC-Irvine unless an accord is Members of the national reached in the Middle East, champion UNLV Runnin' according to equipment Rebels will be wearing manager Larry Chin. American flag patches on Chin said the Rebels, their uniforms Thursday if ranked No. 1 in the nation war breaks out in the Persian since the preseason, wanted Gulf. to show their support for 
"The idea just kind a popped military personnel in the up and all the guys agreed Gulf. they wanted to do it," Joe Hawk, UNLV sports Rebel forward Chris Jeter, information director, said who is from San Diego, Calif., Tuesday. has a younger brother 
The Rebels will wear the serving in the Persian Gulf. 
patches on the upper left side He said at Christmas his one of their uniforms beginning holiday wish was to see the with their game Thursday at safe return of his brother. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classlfieds Is 3p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day. including all 

Classifieds 
spaces. 

ACCENT ON FUN! Coed, TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER FREEDOM! Rent the best houses. Jeanne, JESTERJESTERBOBESTER sleepaway camp in Massachusetts CHILDREN'S CAMPS-prime locations. 233-9947. I'm sorry about all the hassle. Let's BANANAFANAFOFESTER
NOTICES 
seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI, NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN kiss (lots) and make up. I had an FEEFIEMOMESTER 
lifeguard, tennis. arts & crafts, all WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY awesome time over break and I JESTER USED TEXTBOOKS land & water sports. fitness. THE NORTHEAST. GOOD 219-291-7153. hope to reenact our Miami Club 23, Friday Jan. 18th 25% off list price gymnastics, piano/play for shows. SALARY, ROOM & BOARD. marathon soon. !love you very Pandora's Books 233-2342 drama. judo, dance. archery. TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN CALL much and I'm sorry for being testy. If they don't graduate us. we'll be corner of ND ave and Howard photography, computers. model OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, Love, Arthur back next fall! 

I PERSONALS 

rocketry, guitar. radio, video. P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY. MA TYPING AVAILABLE yearbook, newspaper, wilderness. 02332 (617) 934-6536. MEN CALL GRADUATING STUDENTS -Top 20 Lit Choir Tour Quotes: THE 91 ChEgs 287-4082 woodwork, RN. OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 NEVER SIGNED UP FOR JOB "The worst class in 25 years" 6/23-8/26. CAMP EMERSON, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY INTERVIEWS BEFORE? LEARN 20. I can't do Georgia-she's too Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. HOW TO SIGN UP FOR perfect. WELCOME BACK

WANTED 
10707. 800-955-CAMP. INTERVIEWS AT CAREER AND 19. Tour as in sewer. WELCOME BACK 
SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER PLACEMENT. ATTEND A 18. I want it the old way. WELCOME BACK Roomate for two bedroom A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 CHILDREN'S CAMPS-WORKSHOP ON WED., JAN. 16, 17. Who's this Eva Eva and Eva. WELCOME BACK townhouse at Tulle Creek DAYS ONLY $2791 JAMAICA & NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN 1 :30-2:30, CAREER AND anyway? wanted. Bedroom is furnished. FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991 DAYTONA WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO PLACEMENT CONFERENCE 16. Why was the 17 year old WE'RE HAPPY TO HAVE YOU Contact Tim at x2506. $1591 PANAMA CITY $991 SPRING SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL ROOM. directing instead of the guy with the HERE THIS SEMESTER AMYl 
BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786. POOL AND LAKES IN THE beard? VIDEO OF MIAMI PEP RALLY. NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, GRADUATING STUDENTS -15. The bottom note keeps moving -JACQUIE + MICHELLE 
Doesn't have to be perfect. Will pay SUMMER JOBS going rate. Call parent collect COUNSELORS/SUMMER evenings 51 B-273-2792. CHILDREN'S 
CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP NEED DELIVERY PERSON FOR SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY. USA TODAY. EARLY A.M. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. MUST DELIVERY TO DORMS, 5 HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE DAYS/WEEK. CALL BOB POWELL FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: AT 287-8531. ARCHERY. CRAFTS. BASEBALL. 
BASKETBALL. BICYCLING, BE ON T.V. many needed for DANCE, DRAMA. DRUMS. 
ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU. 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA. P.O. BOX 1771. DUXBURY. MA 02332 
(617) 934-6536. 
FOR RENT 
NEVER SIGNED UP FOR JOB INTERVIEWS BEFORE? LEARN HOW TO SIGN UP FOR INTERVIEWS AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT. ATTEND A WORKSHOP ON WED .. JAN. 16, 1 :30-2:30, CAREER AND PLACEMENT CONFERENCE ROOM. 
GRADUATING STUDENTS ­

up and the top note stays the same--it's a neat trick if you can de it. 
14. In with the South. out with the North. 
13. And the good priestsaid, "K­nute. follow your heart." 
12. II you need to be excused, there are rooms down the hall. 
11 . I am the priest or minister with that group. 

NEED EXTRA INCOME FOR 19917 Earn $500-1000 weekly stuffing envelopes. For details -Rush $1.00 with SASE to: OIH Group, 7121 Laural  
Hill Orlando Fl.32818  

commercials. Now hiring all ages. FENCING, FOOTBALL. GOLF. For casting info. Call GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY, (615) 779-7111 Ext. T-695. HORSEBACK-ENGLISH, JUGGLING, KARATE. LACROSSE, 
SUMMER JOBS NATURE. PHOTOGRAPHY. ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PIANO, ROCKETRY, PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ROLLERBLADING. ROPES, ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS SAILBOARDING, SAILING. NEAR LAKE PLACID SCUBA, SOCCER. TRACK, CALL 1-800-343-8373. WATER SKI. WEIGHTS, WOOD. 
MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP CONSTRUCTION JOBS now hiring WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, all positions. Both skilled & MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) unskilled. Male & Female openings. 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR For info. Call (615) 779-5505 Ext. T-WRITE: CAMP VEGA. P.O. BOX 541. 1771. DUXBURY, MA 02332 
(617) 934-6536. 
FURNISHED 6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. SECURITY SYSTEM. NEXT FALL OR SUMMER. 272-6306 PETER GILLIS. 
PRIVATE ROOM, $220/MO. ALL UTILITIES, FULL HOUSE PRIV., WASHER & DRYER. CLEAN HOME NEAR ND. 287-7928. 
QUAINT APTS. NEAR N.D. -furnished efficiency $225 . 
-upstairs 1 bedroom $255 
-downstairs 1 bedroom $265 deposit. references 616-483-9572 NEVER SIGNED UP FOR JOB INTERVIEWS BEFORE? LEARN HOW TO SIGN UP FOR INTERVIEWS AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT. ATTEND A WORKSHOP ON WED., JAN. 16, 1 :30-2:30, CAREER AND PLACEMENT CONFERENCE ROOM. 
FREE SPRING BREAK VACATION TO CANCUN & PANAMA CITY BEACH! Organize a group or campus-wide event! Earn Commissions & Free Trips! Call: (BOO) 826-9100. 

10. Does Bud Gardner drive a bus in limbo? He drives a bus to limbo regularly. 
9. It's a major breakthrough. 
8. I'll trump your ace. 
7. For the mouth of Tom Szott hath spoken it. 
6. Does it matter? No. Is it important to the story? Maybe. 
5. Can it, James! 
4. Whenever I think of Cheryl, I'll think of a wet crotch. 
3. What is this-the Moral Majority? 
2. Do you reject Satan, Prince of Peace? 
1. Venita adoramus Dominum 
fHE AM ERIC-\\: Ill ·\Rf 
ASS<I:IATIO~ 

MEI\IORlAL I'RL[;RAr-.1 
~ 
)'f.< 

American Heart C~ Association ,~, ;­

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, January 16, 1991 

Scoreboard 

NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS 
AJIT11111111 EST 
All Times ESTEASTERN CONFERENCE WALES CONFERENCE

Aa.ntlc Dlvl8lon 
Patrick Division

w L Pet (J! L10 Streak Home Away Cant Boston 29 6 .829 8-2 Lost 1 19-1 10-5 19-5 Philadelphia22 14 .611 7112 4-6 Won 2 14-4 8-10 17-7 
w L T Pis GF GA Home Away Dlv NY Rangers 26 15 8 60 182 150 
14-6-5 12-9-3 9-6-3 Philadelphia 23 21 52 160 12-12-2Washington 15 18 .455 13 7-3 Won 2 10-5 5-13 9-12 
6 164 11-9-4 7-10-5 Pittsburgh 24-21 3 51 204 176 15-11-1 9-10-2 12-9-0 New York 15 19 .441 13112 4-6 Lost 1 8-11 7-8 9-13 
New Jersey 10 25 .286 19 0-10 Lost 11 8-12 2-13 5-16 New Jersey 19 9 172 163 13-6-5 8-10-5
19 47 6-13-4 Washington 21Miami 10 26 .278 191/2 4-6 Won 1 7-11 3-15 4-16 
23 2 44 150 150 11-10-1 10-13-1 11-9-1 NY Islanders 16 24 6 38 131 160 
Centnl Dlvt8lon 
9-13-3 7-11-3 6-9-4 Adams DivisionChicago 26 10 .722 9-1 Won 6 17-3 9-7 16-5 
Detroit 26 11 .703 1/2 10-0 Won 10 16-1 10-10 18-5 
Milwaukee 25 12 .676 11/2 6-4 Lost 4 18-1 7-11 16-11 Boston 25 15 8 58 171 155 14-6-3 11-9-5 10-6-3 Montreal 24 18 5 53 152 143 14-7-2 10-11-3 10-5-3Atlanta 21 15 .583 5 8-2 Won 2 13-6 8-9 11-14 Buffalo 18 17 10 
46 158 146 9-6-6 9-11-4 5-8-4 Hartford 19 22 5 43 133 154 10-12-2 Indiana 14 22 .389 12 4-6 Lost 1 12-6 2-16 9-14 
9-10-3 7-9-3 Quebec 10 8 134 207 5-13-5 5-9-5 Charlotte 11 22 .333 131/2 3-7 Lost 1 8-11 3-11 7-15 29 28 5-16-3Cleveland 11 25 .306 15 0-10 Lost 11 7-11 4-14 8-15 CAMPBELL CONFERENCEWESTERN CONFERENCE Norris Division
lloldMst Dlvt8lon 
w L T Pis GF GA
W L Pet (J! LID Streak Home Away Cant Home Away Div San Antonio24 8 . 750 7-3 Won 2 12-2 12-6 17-4 
Chicago 31 14 3 65 162 124 17-6-2 14-8-1 13-6-1 St. Louis 25 7 .163 132 14-8-2 11-5-2
13 57 11-5-5 Detroit 22Utah 24 12 .667 2 7-3 Lost 1 15-3 9-9 17-6 
20 5 49 160 165 18-6-0 4-14-5 9-7-2 Minnesota 12 27 8 32 140 Houston 19 17 .528 7 4-6 Lost 3 12-5 7-12 11-11 167 7-13-4 5-14-4 2-12-3Dallas 12 22 .353 13 3-7 Lost 3 7-9 5-13 8-17 Toronto 12 30 4 28 130 190 7-17-2 5-13-2 5-10-2 Smythe DivisionMinnesota 11 23 .324 14 4-6 Lost 1 7-10 4-13 8-16 
Orlando 1 0 27 .270 161/2 5-5 Lost 1 8-9 2-18 8-20 Los Angeles26 14 57 143 11-8-2
5 186 15-6-3 7-6-3 Calgary 24 17Denver 7 28 .200 181/2 2-8 Won 1 5-11 2-17 4-19 5 53 187 146 12-7-1 12-10-4 10-6-2
Paclftc Dlvt8lon 
Edmonton 21 20 3 45 144 142 13-8-1 8-12-2 7-9-2Portland 32 7 .821 6-4 Won 2 17-2 15-5 20-5 Vancouver 18 25 4 40 149 177 10-10-2 8-15-2 6-12-0 Winnipeg 14 8 151 173 10-11-3 7-4-5 Phoenix 23 11 .676 6112 8-2 Won 4 13-4 10-7 17-6 26 36 4-15-5LA Lakers 22 11 .667 7 8-2 Won 3 14-4 8-7 16-8 
Golden State19 16 .543 11 4-6 Won 1 12-4 7-12 13-10 Monday's GamesSeattle 15 18 .455 14 5-5 Lost 2 10-6 5-12 7-12 Boston 6, Detroit 1 LA Clippers13 24 .351 18 2-8 Won 1 10-7 3-17 10-11 Buffalo 9, Toronto 3 Sacramento8 25 .242 21 2-8 Won 1 7-9 1-16 6-17 Los Angeles 6, New Jersey 1 Monday's a.n­
Tuesday's GamesAtlanta 96. New York 82 Late Games Not IncludedChicago 110, Milwaukee 97 

NO -LOYOLA BOX 
Boston 5, N.Y. Islanders 4 
Detroit 89, Dallas 81 Edmonton 2, N.Y. Rangers 2, tieLA Clippers 130, Houston 126, OT NOTRE DAME (66) Philadelphia 5, Pittsburgh 4Tueaday's a.n-Washington 3-7 2-2 9, Davis 3-5 3-4 9, Nowlin 5­Montreal at Minnesota, (n) t..ate a.n-Not Included 12 5-7 15, Liebscher 4-7 1-1 9, Robinson 6-14 0-0 Washington at St. Louis, (n)Atlanta 117. Indiana 106 12, Knapp 3-4 0-0 6, Orlosky 1-2 0-0 2, Haysbert 1­Winnipeg at Calgary, (n) Golden State 112, New Jersey 111, OT 5 0-0 2, Alexander 0-0 0-0 0, Fitzgerald 0-1 0-0 0, Wednesday's GamesMiami 104, Orlando 102 · Rupe 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 27-58 11'-14 66. 
Detroit at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. 
Portland 132, Minnesota 117 LOYOLA (55) Los Angeles at Hartford, 7:35 p.m. 
Washington at Phoenix, (n) Metz 9-17 5-5 23, Pruim 3-9 0-1 7, Schink 4-11 0­Chicago at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. 
San Antonio at Utah, (n) 2 8, Murtaugh 0-0 0-0 0, O'Shaughnessy 4-10 4-4 Winnipeg at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
Denver at Seattle, (n) 12. Bluege 2-4 0-0 4, Kundinger 0-4 0-0 0, Zalas· 0­
Thursday's Games

Charlotte at LA Lakers, (n) . 11-21, Hamill 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 22-57 10-14 55. 
Los Angeles at Boston. 7:35p.m.
Wednnday's Gal11llll Halftime---j_oyola 36, Notre Dame 14. 3-point Edmonton at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. 
Golden State at Boston, 7:30 p.m. goals-Notre Dame 1-5 (Washington 1-1, Chicago at N.Y. Rangers. 7:35 p.m. 
Miami at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Liebscher 0-3, Fitzgerald 0-1 )), Loyola 1-4 (Pruim Quebec at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. 
Minnesota at New York, 7:30 p.m. 1-1, O'shaughnessy 0-1, Kundinger 0-2). Fouled Pittsburgh at Toronto, 7:35p.m. 
Chicago at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Out-None. Rebounds-Notre Dame 37 (Davis 1 0), Washington at Minnesota, 8:35p.m. 
Indiana at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. Loyola 32 (Pruim 7). Assists-Notre Dame 17 Montreal at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. 
Dallas at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. (Robinson 5). Loyola 17 (Murtaugh 8). Total Charlotte at Denver, 9:30p.m. fouls-Notre Dame 13, Loyola 13. Washington at LA Clippers, 1 0:30 p.m. NBA BOXES 
MISL STANDINGS 
'l'hunday's a.n-Detroit at Houston, 8:30 p.m. NCAA BOXES (132)
PORTLAND 

Robinson 5-8 5-6 15, Williams 0-1 0-0 0, CooperLA Lakers at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
All Times EST
WEST VIRGINIA (70) 0-3 0-0 0, Drexler 11-2010-12 32, Porter 10-16 4-4 
Eastern Division
Brooks 1 0-15 3-5 23, Becton 4-12 0-0 8, Wilson 27. Kersey7-148-1022, Bryant6-118-1020, 
W L Pet. GBWOMEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS 0-3 0-0 0, Leonard 8-13 2-2 23. Boyd 1-2 0-0 2, Abdelnaby 1-3 0-0 2, Ainge 5-11 1-1 13, Young 0­Kansas City 16 11 . 593 
Basey 1-2 0-0 3, Jackson 0-0 0-0 0, Robinson 0-0 1 1-21, Petrovic 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 45-88 37·45 132. 
Baltimore 14 13 .519 2How the Associated Press' Top 25 women's teams 0-0 0, Pollard 0-1 0-0 0, Bodkin 1-5 5-6 7, Greene Wichita 11 15 .423 41/2fared for Tuesday: 2-5 0-0 4, Roadcap 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 27-58 10-13 MINNESOTA (117) Cleveland 9 17 .346 61/21. Virginia (14-1) did not play. 70. Corbin 8-18 7-7 23, Mitchell 13-18 3-4 29, Western Division2. Tennessee (13-2) did not play. Spencer 3-6 5-6 11, Campbell 1-13 3-3 5, San Diego 15 1 0 .600
3. Penn State (11-1) did not play. NOTRE DAME (84) Richardson 9-17 2-4 20, Breuer 2-4 0-2 4, Coffey St. Louis 15 11 .577 1/24. North Carolina State (13-2) beat Wake Forest Ellis 11-12 8-12 32, Sweet 10-12 0-0 20, Tower .1-2 0-0 2, West 2-4 0-1 4, Glass 6-12 1-1 13, Tacoma 13 12 .520 288-83. 3-8 5-8 11, Singleton 1-1 2-2 4, Bennett 4-7 0-4 8, Brooks 2-4 0-0 6, Godfread 0-1 0-0 O.Totals 47-99 Dallas 11 15 .423 45. UNLV (14-0) did not play. Boyer 0-1 1-2, Adamson 0-0 0-0 0, Gibson 0-0 0-0 21-28117. 
Monday's Game6. Rutgers (12-0) did not play. 0, Ellery 3-8 2-2 8, Cozen 0-1 0-0 0, Joe Ross 0-1 Portland 41 30 31 3~132 Baltimore 9, Kansas City 6 7. Georgia (13-2) did not play. 0-0 0, Jon Ross 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 32-52 18-30 84. Minnesota 27 23 35 32-117 Tuesday's Games8. Purdue (12-1) did not play. Halftime-Notre Dame 43, West Virginia 34. 3-3-Point goals-Portland 5-11 (Porter 3-5, Ainge Late Game Not Included9. Stanford (1 0-3) did not play. point goals-West Virginia 6-13 (leonard 5-7, 2-4. Drexler 0-2), Minnesota 2-8 (Brooks 2-3, Glass Cleveland 5, Wichita 310. Auburn (12-3) beat South Alabama 86-48. Basey 1-2, Brooks 0-1, Becton 0-1, Pollard 0-1, 0-1. Godfread 0-1, Richardson 0-3). Fouled out­San Diego at Tacoma. (n)11. LSU (12-2) did not play. Greene 0-1). Notre Dame 2-4 (Ellis 2-2, Ellery 0-2). Mitchell, Corbin. Rebounds-Portland 59 (Drexler Wednesday's Gama12. Arkansas (13-2) did not play. Fouled out-Tower, Bennett. Rebounds-West 10), Minnesota 51 (Spencer 9). Assists-Portland Dallas at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. 
13. Washington (11-2) did not play. Virginia 24 (Brooks 11 ), Notre Dame 34 (Ellis 11 ). 31 (Drexler 11 ). Minnesota 33 (Richardson 12). 
Thursday's Game
14. Mississippi (11-2) did not play. Assists-West Virginia 17, (Boyd 7), Notre Dame Total fouls-Portland 25, Minnesota 32. 
Cleveland at Dallas. 8:35 p.m.
15. Northwestern (9-3) did not play. 22 (Singleton 1 0). Total fouls-West Virginia 24, Technicals-Portland illegal defense, Minnesota Friday's Games16. Western Kentucky ( 13-1) did not play. Notre Dame 17. A-9,465. illegal defense. A-19,006. 
Kansas City at Wichita, 8:35 p.m. 
17. Clemson ( 1 0-3) did not play. 
St. Louis at San Diego, 10:35 p.m. 
ARKANSAS (93) Day 8-171-2 19, Morris 4-7 0-0 8, Miller 3-5 0-0 
18. 
Connecticut (13-2) did not play. ATLANTA (117) 

19. 
Texas (9-5) did not play. Wilkins 1 0-18 6-6 28, Willis 5-9 0-0 11, Koncak 

6, Mayberry 6-13 3-5 16, Bowers 4-6 0-2 9, Huery

20. 
Iowa (7-5) did not play. 0-0 0-0 0, Rivers 1 0-15 3-4 24, Robinson 3-8 1-1 7 

5-10 3-3 14, Wallace 2-5 0-2 4, Murry 5-6 0-0 10, TRANSACTIONS

21. 
Providence (13-2) did not play. Battle 9-19 3-4 21, Malone 5-10 9-11 19, Moncrief' 

Fletcher 2-2 0-0 4, Biley 0-0 0-0 0, Davis 0-0 0-0 0.

22. 
Notre D8me (1G-3) beat Loyola-llllnola 66-55. 1-4 1-2 3, Ferrell 0-2 0-0 0, McCormick 1-3 2-3 4. 

Totals 39-71 11-14 93. 


23. 
Louisiana Tech (8-4) did not play. Totals 44-88 25-31 117. 


AUTO RACING 

24. Oklahoma State (13-2) did not play. 
Alamo Grand Prix AssociationTCU (73)

25. Long Beach State (6-5) did not play. INDIANA (106) AGPA-Ganceled the Grand Prix of San Antonio.
Tolley 1-2 0-0 2. Moton 4-7 4-412, Smith 7-20 4­Person 11-20 4-6 27, Thompson 3-7 0-0 6, Smits 1318, Strickland 9-20 0-0 23, A.Thomas 2-10 0-2 2-6 0-0 4, Miller 10-19 4-4 26, M.Williams 6-9 1-1 BASEBALL4, Crawford 3-5 2-4 8, Bentley 0-4 0-1 0, Fielder 0­
MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS 13, McCloud 5-7 0-0 11 . Schremp! 2-11 4-6 a. American League
0 0-0 0, Preston 1-4 0-0 2, K.Thomas 0-2 4-6 4, Sanders 3-7 0-0 6, Wittman 0-1 0-0 0, Dreiling 2-3 BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Traded Rene Gonzales,Fromayan 0-0 0-0 0, Frain 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 27-76 
How the Associated Press' Top 25 teams fared 1-2 5, K.Williams 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 44-91 14-19 infielder, to the Toronto Blue Jays for Rob
14-30 73. 
106.

Tuesday: Blumberg, pitcher, and assigned him to
Halftime-Arkansas 53, TCU 35. 3-point goals­
1. UNLV (11-0) did not play. Next: at UC Irvine, Atlanta 25 38 21 33-117 Hagerstown of the Eastern League.
Arkansas 4-12 (Day 1-2, Bowers 1-2, Huery 1-3, 
16 23-106 Mayberry 1-4, Murry 0-1). TCU 5-16 (Strickland 5­Thursday. Indiana 44 23 CLEVELAND INDIANS-Signed Joel Skinner, 
2. Arkansas (15-1) at Texas Christian. Next: vs. 3-Point goals-Atlanta 4-9 (Wilkins 2-4, Willis 1-catcher, to a three-year contract.
12, Bentley 0-1, Preston 0-1, A. Thomas 0-2). 
Southern Methodist, Saturday. 2, R1vers 1-2, Malone 0-1 ), Indiana 4-10 (Miller 2-3, DETROIT TIGERS-Agreed to terms with JohnFouled out-None. Rebounds-Arkansas 38 Person 1-2, McCloud 1-3, Schremp! 0-2). Fouled
3. Indiana (15-1) did not play. Next: at No. 24 Cerutti, pitcher, on a one-year contract. Designated
(Wallace 9), TCU 54 (Smith 15). Assists-Arkansas
Iowa, Saturday. out:-None. Rebounds-Atlanta 57 (Wilkins 12), Dave Richards, pitcher, for assignment. 
19 (Bowers 4), TCU 18 (A.Thomas 4). Total fouls­
4. Ohio State (14-0) did not play. Next: vs. Illinois, Indiana 45 (Smits 1 0). Assists-Atlanta 20 (Battle NEW YORK YANKEES-Agreed to terms with Saturday. 8), Indiana 28 (M.Williams 9). Total fouls-Atlanta Mike Blowers, third baseman. on a one-year 
Arkansas 26, TCU 18. A-7,166. 
5. North Carolina (13-1) did not play. Next: vs. 22, Indiana 29. Technical-Malone. A-9.531. contract.
OKLAHOMA (72)

North Carolina State, Wednesday. National League
Holmes 2-9 4-6 8, Webster 9-15 4-6 22, Evans 4­6. Arizona (13-2) did not play. Next: at Arizona 
14 4-6 15, Price 4-12 1-2 12, Mullins 1-9 0-0 2, NHL BOXES NEW YORK METS-Agreed to terms with Gregg State, Thursday. Jefferies, infielder. on a one-year contract.
Harris 0-0 0-0 0, French 0-0 0-0 0, Sallier 4-5 4-12 
7. UCLA (13-2) did not play. Next: vs. Stanford, At Uniondale, N.Y. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Agreed to terms with
12, Ware 0-1 0-0 0. Keane 0-1 1-2 1. Totals 24-66 Wednesday. Boston 2 2 -5 Steve Ontiveros, pitcher. on a one-year contract. 
18-34 72.

8. Syracuse (14-2) did not play. Next: vs. No. 13 N.Y. Islanders 1 2 1 -4 SAN DIEGO PADRES-Signed Dann Bilardello Connecticut, Wednesday. 
First Period-1, Boston, Kekalainen 1 (Galley, D.Sweeney), 8:43. 2, Boston, and Brian Dorsett. catchers. to minor league 
MISSOURI (80)

9. Kentucky (12-2) did not play. Next: at contracts.
Burridge 12 (Pedersen, B.Sweeney), 17:37. 3, New York, King 9 (Sutter. Mississippi, Wednesday. Flatley), 19:43.
Crudup 1-3 1-2 3, Warren 3-4 0-0 6, D.Smith 11­
19 9-13 31, Coleman 2-4 3-4 7, Peeler 5-14 9-12 
10. 
St. John's (11-2) vs. Providence. Next: vs. No. 19, R.Smith 0-5 3-10 3, Horton 2-3 0-1 4, Booker 3-Second Period--4, New York, McBean 3 (Ferraro, Berg), 2:09. 5, Boston, BASKETBALL 16 Pittsburgh, Saturday. 11 1-2 7, Frazier 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 27-63 26-44 80. Bourque 10 (Hodge, Byce),5:37. 6, New York, Ferraro 12 (Wood, Berg). 7:08. 7, Continental Basketball Association 

11. 
Oklahoma (13-3) lost at Missouri 80-72. Next: Boston, Janney 16 (Hodge, Christian), 10:24 (pp). ALBANY PATROONS-Named Eric Chapman 


Halftime-Missouri 44, Oklahoma 37. 3-point vs. Oklahoma State, Saturday. goals-Oklahoma 6-22 (Price 3-8, Evans 3-12, Third Period-S, Boston, B.Sweeney 9 (Lazaro, Byce), 14:23. 9, New York, director of player personnel. 
12. Duke (13-3) did not play. Next: at Citadel, LaFontaine 25 (Wood, Ferraro), 19:54. CEDAR RAPIDS RAPID BULLETS-Signed Ozell
Mullins 0-2), Missouri 0-2 (Peeler 0-1, R.Smith 0­Wednesday. 1). Fouled out-Warren. Rebounds-Oklahoma 46 Shots on goal-Boston 8-8-7-23. New York 8-11-11-30. Jones, center. Waived Gary Leonard, center. 
13. Connecticut (12-2) did not play. Next: at No.8 Goalies-Boston, Moog. New York, Healy. A-11.413.
(Holmes 11), Missouri 51 (D.Smith 14). Assists­
Syracuse. Wednesday. FOOTBALL
Oklahoma 15 (Evans 5), Missouri 20 (Peeler 7).
14. Virginia (10-3) did not play. Next: at Maryland, At New York World League of American Football
Total fouls-Oklahoma 30, Missouri 25. A­
t3,300.

Wednesday. Edmonton 0 2 0 ~2 SACRAMENTO SURGE-Named Jim Haslett 
15. 
East Tennessee State (13-1) did not play. N.Y. Rangers 0 1 1 ~2 defensive assistant coach. Next: at Western Carolina, Saturday. First Period-None. 

16. 
Pittsburgh (14-3) did not play. Next: at No. 10 SETON HALL (71) Second Period-!, Edmonton, Klima 15 (Linseman), 2:43. 2, New York, SOCCER 


Taylor 4-5 2-2 12, Walker 3-5 1-2 7, Winchester
.... 
St. John's, Saturday. Gartner 25 (Nicholls, Shepherd), 3:44. 3, Edmonton, Murphy 15 (Graves, WORLD CUP USA 1994-Named Leo Levine 
3-5 4-5 10. Dehere 4-12 4-6 15, Avent 8-15 3-5 19, Caver 0-1 0-0 0, Barnea 2-4 4-6 8, Lokar 0-0 0-0 0, 
17. Nebraska (16-1) did not play. Next: at MacTavish), 6:15. · senior vice president of communications. 
Colorado, Tuesday, Jan. 22. Third Period--4, New York, Moiler 3 (Miller, Gartner). 8:49. National Professional Soccer League
Crist 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 24-47 18-26 71. 
18. Southern Mississippi (8-1) did not play. Next: Overtime-None. 
ATLANTA A TIACK-Waived John Diffley, vs. Tulane, Thursday. 
Shots on goaf---Edmonton 5-10-7-2-24. New York 11-12-9-1-33. defender. Activated Greg Sheen, midfielder, from 19. Georgetown (1 0-4) did not play. Next: at BOSTON COLLEGE (62) 
Goalies-Edmonton, Ranford. New York, Vanbiesbrouck. A-15,391. the injured list. Boston College, Saturday. 
Eisley 1-6 0-0 2, Arditti 4-7 0-1 11, Curley 3-7 2-4 
20. LSU (1 0-3) at Alabama. Next: vs. Mississippi, 8, Abram 1-3 0-0 2, Beasley 3-8 2-2 8, Able 6-17 2-At Philadelphia COLLEGE $aturday. 
5 14, Huckaby 5-7 0-0 12, Moran 2-3 0-0 5, Foley 
Pittsburgh 0 3 -4 LONG BEACH STATE-Named Willie Brown head... 21. New Mexico State (12-1) did not play. Next: at 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 25-29 6-12 62. Philadelphia 4 1 o -5 football coach. Halftime-Seton Hall 42, Boston College 31. 3­
Fullerton State, Saturday. First Period-!, Philadelphia, Kushner 6 (Berube, Murphy), 3:52. 2, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGIATE 
point goals-Seton Hall 5-10 (Avent 3-8, Taylor 2­22. South Carolina (12-3) did not play. Next: vs. 
Philadelphia, Samuelsson 7 (Smith, Sutter), 4:22. 3, Philadelphia, Tocchet 29 DIRECTORS OF ATHLETICS-Named John Virginia Tech, Wednesday. 2), Boston College 6-12 (Arditti 3-6, Huckaby 2-3, (Latal, Murphy), 10:37 (pp). 4, Philadelphia, Tocchet 30 (Eklund, Ricci). 14:12. Swofford, North Carolina athletic director, third vice 23. Utah (15-1) did not play. Next: at Wyoming, Moran 1-2, Eisley 0-1). Fouled out-None. 
Second Period-S, Pittsburgh, Errey 11 (Cullen, Recchi), :40. 6, Pittsburgh, president. 
Thursday. Rebounds-Seton Hall37 (Avent 10), Boston Bourque 14 (Hredina, Jagger}, 1:27. 7, Pittsburgh, Colley 19 (Cullen, S.Young), SOUTH CAROLINA-Fired Rick Whitt, detensiveCollege 28 (Able 5). Assists-seton Hall 1324. Iowa (13-3) did not play. Next: at Wisconsin, 9:25 (pp). 8, Philadelphia, Ricci 13 (Gartner, Samuelsson), 14:36 (pp). coordinator. 
Thursday. (Winchester 4), Boston College 10 (Huckaby 5). 
Third Period-9, Pittsbiurgh, Roberts 3 (Hrdina. Recchi), 12:30. WILLIAM & MARY-Signed Chuck Swenson, 25. Seton Hall (11-3) beat Boston College 71-62. Total fouls-Seton Hall17, Boston College 22. A-
Shots on goaf---Pittsburgh 8-8-8-24. Philadelphia 17-11-13--41. men's basketball coach, to a three-year contract Next: at No. 8 Syracuse. Saturday. 6,123. 
Goalies-Pittsburgh, Barrasso. Philadelphia, Peeters, Hextall. A-17,382. extension. 




_w_e_d_n_e_sd_a_y_,_J_a_n_ua_~ ______________________________~T~he~O~b~s=e~~~e~r----------------------------~~----------~~~~-------~-p~a~g~e~--15-~
__1_6_,_1_9_9_1 



Gulf ripples soak sports world 
(AP) • The fun and games world of sports began bracing Tuesday for the serious possi­bility of war between the United States and Iraq. 
Events, athletes and fans around the world were getting ready in case war broke out in the Persian Gulf. 
At Melbourne, Australia, site of the Australian Open, a news­paper headline read, "NO HOPE" on the front pages above photographs of President Bush and his wife praying. 
In the players' lounge, there was more talk about Iraq President Saddam Hussein and prospects of terrorism than there was about tennis. 
Bryan Shelton, a former All­American at Georgia Tech, was worried b11cause his brother Mark is an army captain sta­tioned in Germany who could b11 sent to the Middle East. 
"Everybody's talking about it every day," Shelton said. "It's a scary situation with the dead­line coming up. My whole fam­ily's a little nervous, not just for my brother, but because of what's going to happen over there. I just hope they can come up with a way out of going to war. I'm watching and praying about it." 
Jill Hetherington of Canada spoke of the fears players had about their vulnerability to ter­rorism as they travel from one tournament to another. 
"You have to be worried about the terrorist attack pos­sibilitills," she said. "Terrorists like to strike at 747s flying around. I feel safer being down here and so far away. I think Australia's probably one of the safest places to be. I wouldn't want to be in Europe now. 
"It's scary. A lot of people just think it's all about oil. I don't think they realize a lot of people from Kuwait have been killed and tortured." 
American Pam Shriver said that at a dinner with players from Switzerland, France and Australia, most of the conver­sation was about the Persian Gulf. 
"It's interesting to hear that not everyone agrees with the 
U.S. stance," Shriver said. "They are far from 100 percent supportive. War is never popu­lar. I can't say whether we should or shouldn't (go to war), but you always hope for an alternative." 
Meanwhile, European Tour golf officials in Virginia Water, England, said that the Dubai Desert Classic tournament, scheduled to start Feb. 7, had been called ofT because of the Gulf crisis. 
Ken Schofield, executive di­rector of the European Tour, said: "I am saddened but com­pletely understand the action taken by the sponsor." 
In Italy, two American women basketball players left their Italian clubs because of the fear of war. 
Pamela McGee informed her club, Pistoia, of her decision to leave, while Catanzaro said that Monica-Lamb Lattin left abruptly. 
The NFL has no plans to postpone playoff games in view of the Gulf crisis, nor has ABC considered broadcast options for the Super Bowl on Jan. 27. 
"The NFL is planning to complete the remaining post­season games as scheduled," spokesman Greg Aiello said. "If events during the next three weeks lead us to re-evaluate our plans, we will make an an­nouncement to that effect at that time." 

The conference champi­onships are scheduled for Sunday. 
"Obviously, no one on earth knows what's going to happen in the Persian Gulf," ABC spokesman Mark Mandel said. "Right now, we're going ahead as we've planned it for a long time." 
A report in this week's Advertising Age magazine said the NFL would consider post­poning the Super Bowl at Tampa, Fla., if war broke out in the Gulf. 
According to the magazine, advertisers, which include Pepsi, Coca-Cola and Anheuser­Busch, have considered contin­gency plans in case of war. Advertisers are paying ABC about $800,000 per 30 seconds of commercial time on the Super Bowl. 
Richard Coffey, who plays for the NBA's Minnesota Timberwolves, is worried about his six friends stationed in Saudi Arabia, all members of the 82nd Airborne that once in­cluded Coffey. 
"My hope is that there is no war, because even if war lasts an hour, somebody is going to die," Coffey said. "Any time a life is lost, it can't be replaced." 
Ed Reynolds, a linebacker with the New England Patriots, is a member of a reserve unit in Salem, Va., and could be called for duty. 
"Combat is a lot more serious than playing a game," Reynolds said. "But I think it's time we quit dragging and get it over with." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Notre Dame Cycling team will be holding an organi­zational meeting on Tuesday, Jan 22, at 7 p.m. In N.S.H. Rm. 
127. If you can't make It or have any questions, call Jonathan Puskas at x3317. Anybody who Is Interested In riding should attend. No experience necessary! 
Late Night Olympics teams are being organized at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Contact the LNO representative in your hall for information on the latest night of the year ­Late Night Olympics, Friday, Feb. 1. 
All women's novice crew members -mandatory meeting on Thursday, Jan 17 in 104 O'Shag. 

ANNOUNCING RELOCATION OF OFFICES THE INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES 
and 

THE HELEN KELLOGG INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
to 

THE HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
First Floor • PEACE INSTITUTE John J. Ollllgan, Director Rita M. Kopczynakl, Aaalatant Director Robert C. Johan..n, Director of Graduate Studln Anne Hayner, Admlnlatrstor, International Scholars Program Oeorge A. Lopez, Director of Undergraduate Studln Secretartn: 
Roaemarle OnHin Marguerite Holleman Karan Przygoda 
FICUit~ Ottlcn: Patrie Qafiney Dent• Ooulet Sheryl Jaenen, Secretary Sharon o••rten 
A. Peter Walahe 
Second Floor· KELLOOQ INSTITUTE Rw. EFMII Bartell, C.S.C., Director Martha Sue Abbolt, Staff Supervtaor Caroline Domingo, Editor Nancy Hall, Admlnl.tratlv. Aaalatant Secretartn: 
Betty• •leteJ...kl 
Dolor. Fairley Faculty Otflcn: ROberto DaMana LeoDnPree Sonia Fleury Teixeira Wendy Hunter Kwan Kim Guillermo O'Donnell David Rucclo Erika Valenzuela Samuel Valenzuela Madalena a Frenclaco Wetfort Kurt Weyland 
Third Floor -FACULTV OFFICES 
Jorge Buatamante 
David Cortright 
Alan Dowty 
Franclaco Durand 
Alejandro Foxtey 
Michael Francia 
Anthony Kerrigan 
Ollburt t.oncher (on leave) 
Scan Mainwaring (on leave) 
Blom Maybury-Lewta 
Sr. Francia O'Connor 
Jaime Roa Cynthia Sarti Rev. Timothy Scully, C.S.C. 
Jamea Sterba 
Charlea Wilber 
Lynn Wozniak 
-----------------------------------------------------....1 
11970 Room1011 5665 Room 104 6483 Room 114 6971 Room 103 5014 Room 115 11972 
Room 100 8535 
Room 101 11970 
Room 111 6974 
Room 111 6230 Room 1111 5250 Room 117 5250 Room 112 11377 Room 123 50119 
6580 Room 205 78111/6580 EXt. 13 Room 216 6580 EXt. 10 Room 201 7118 Room 204 78111 
Room 218 6580 EXt. 11 Room 2111 6580 EXt. 15 
Room 211 71011 Room 218 7450 Room 206 8528 Room 215 8524 Room 220 5179 Room 203 78111/11580 Room 200 7233/8434 

-Room 207 7038 
Room 210 8410/8483 Room 217 5102 Room 215 8524 
Room 302 7874 Room305 Room 313 110118 Room 307 8525 Room 300 7816/8530 Room 312 6469 Room 303 7121/6580 
Room 321 7096 Room 320 7119/6580 Room 300 8530 Room 304 8532 Room 319 7009 Room 3011 8533 Room 322 7052 Room 316 5231 Room 317 5168 Room 308 7667 
Wednesday, January 16, 1991

page 16 The Observer 
by 10 points," Leonard said. 
"We never really got enthused 
about this game. We knew 
Men Season ends for spartan Zorich 
contin~ed from page 20 
bounds) would be my MVP tonight. 
"We knew we had to step things up a notch, get things going, play hard, do the things we did in the second half against Miami and go after it. Tonight we faced a zone again, and we did one of the best jobs we've done against the zone to get things done offensively." 
West Virginia, on the other hand, could get very little going on offense, particularly in the second half. Guard Chris Leonard (23 points) was able to keep the Mountaineers in it early as he canned three three­pointers. But when the Irish concentrated on him, they were able to shut him off. 
"They just came out on me and were more aware of me," Leonard said. 
The second half was frustrat­ing for the Mountaineers. "Every time we looked up at the scoreboard we were down 
Notre Dame was a good team, we just didn't come prepared to play." 
The good news for Notre Dame was that senior captain Tim Singleton did come pre­pared to play. Singleton, who missed six games with a back injury earlier in the season, handed out a team-leading 10 assists in his third game back. 
"You can see that the differ­ence for us is having Tim Singleton back," Phelps said. "I think Singleton makes every­body else better." 
"I told Singleton he's the nu­cleus of our offense," Sweet added. "With him in the game we are able to cut down on turnovers, and he also helps us execute on offense." 
But the key to the Irish of­fense is Ellis, so although the return of Singleton helps, the loss of Ellis could hurt even more. Phelps will hold his weekly teleconference at noon today and will likely comment on the future of Ellis. 

The Cbselver/Macy Huedu!l Kevin Ellery, (#35) whose shot was blocked, is one of many players who Digger Phelps and the Irish look to fill the void left by the impending loss of LaPhonso Ellis. 
-

By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 
MIAMI-It wasn't supposed to end this way. Not here, not now. 
Chris Zorich, one of the fiercest competitors the college game has ever seen, always made his mark on the playing field, taking on two or three blockers at a time, pushing them aside and stopping oppos­ing ballcarriers behind the line of scrimmage. 
He spent a lot of time picking himself up off the ground, the victim of countless holding penalties that went uncalled, only to regain his footing and chase down a quarterback in the backfield or a receiver 20 yards downfield. 
Zorich once said he wouldn't be happy with his performance until he made every tackle in a game. 
He expected to be on the field when the final outcome of the Orange Bowl was decided on Jan. 1. He did everything within his power to give Notre Dame one last chance at victory, making two key tackles on the Buffaloes' final drive of the day. 
Yet there he was, helpless, on the sidelines, when Raghib Ismail's stunning 91-yard punt return for a touchdown was called back on a clipping penalty with 43 seconds re­maining in the 10-9 Irish loss, the final game of his collegiate career. 
The Orange Bowl game also may have represented the most spectacular performance of his three-year career, one for which he earned unanimous Defensive MVP honors. 
All told, Zorich tallied 10 tackles in the game, including 8 unassisted. He also had two tackles for loss, resulting in minus-six yards for the Buffaloes. His fourth-quarter sack of backup quarterback Charles S. Johnson, the Orange Bowl's Offensive MVP, breathed new life into Notre Dame's quest for a third straight bowl victory. 

"Zorich was outstanding," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz said after the game. 
With just over two minutes remaining and Colorado cling­ing to a 10-9 lead, Buffaloes' tailback Eric Bieniemy picked up three yards and a first down on a critical third-down play that appeared to signal the end for the Irish. 
The ball was spotted on the Notre Dame 27, easily within the range of Colorado place­kicker Jim Harper. But Zorich stopped fullback George Hemingway for a two-yard loss, then dropped Johnson 10 yards behind the line of scrimmage to move the Buffaloes back to the 39 yardline and out of field­goal range. 
Defensive tackle George Williams sacked Johnson again on third down, and a delay of game penalty forced Colorado to punt from its own 4 7. Ismail's ensuing punt return and the controversy that sur­rounded it stole the next morn­ing's headlines. 
Zorich, though, believed the game was lost in the trenches. 
"You can't call the game on one person," Zorich said. "If you do, then you can blame me. (Bieniemy) came right over me on that touchdown." 
That touchdown, a one-yard plunge over the right side of the line with 4:26 remaining in the third quarter, proved to be the game-winner. It punctuated an eight-play, 60-yard drive that started when outside linebacker Paul Rose recovered Ricky Watters's fumble at the Notre Dame 40. 
The Irish defense, much-ma­ligned during the regular sea­son, put together perhaps its two finest showings of the sea­son in the final two games against Colorado and USC. It was not enough, however, to overcome five turnovers by an unproductive offense that gen­erated only 19 points in the last 10 quarters. 
"We did the best we could," Zorich said. "Apparently, it wasn't enough." 
Zorich did more than his share this season, bouncing back from a dislocated right kneecap injured in the Oct. 27 Pittsburgh game to win the Lombardi Award, presented to the college lineman or linebacker who best exemplifies the qualities espoused by the legendary Green Bay Packers' coach. 
Zorich learned to appreciate the importance of a proper value system early in life. His mother, Zora, raised Chris alone in the violent South Side of Chicago, where their apart­ment reportedly was broken into on five different occasions. 
When Zora died unexpectedly of a heart attack on Jan. 2, one day after the Orange Bowl, Chris again found himself un­able to help. He returned from Miami to find her lying dead on the floor of their apartment. 
"She was an inspiration to me and others," Zorich told Blue and Gold Illustrated. "Hopefully, I'll turn out like her and carry on her legacy." 
Perhaps there was no more fitting tribute to the memory of Zora Zorich than Chris's MVP showing in the Orange Bowl game and the dignified manner with which he handled himself throughout his Notre Dame ca­reer, especially in the difficult days following her death. 


OOPS UPSIDE YOUR HEA 
We want to bounce this one off you: 
How would you like Swatch to pay part of your tuition bill for next semester? 
To have a shot at this, just go to the next "Swatch Free Tuition Shootout" game: 
Thursday, Janaury 17, 1991 Notre Dame v. Marquette 

(you must fill out an entry form at the Gate 10 Entrance to be eligible) 
If you're chosen, you'll be summoned to court during halftime to take the shortest test of your life. You'll have 30 seconds lo make the followmg three shots: (I) One Lay-up, (2) One Free Throw. (3) One 3-Poinler. If you make all three before lhc cloc.k runs out, you'll have netted yourself a partial tuition payment from Swatch. The only other requiremenl to win is th:u you re a full ume undergraduate student. So support lhe Fighting Irish this semester! And Swatch might end up supponinc 
you next semester! ~ 
------..-------------.----------~------.....--------------~ -----~-­
Wednesday, January 16, 1991 
Rocket 
continued from page 20 
spectacular bowl finish on a day of blowouts suddenly bncamn the most controversial call in recflnt bowl history. 
"Whfln they threw the flag," Ismail said, "I was just hoping it wasn't against us. I just heard about it when I got in (to the sidelinns)." 
"My heart started again after I saw the flag on Ismail's punt return," Colorado wide receiver Mike Pritchard said. 
With Notre Dame trailing Colorado 10-9 in the closing minutes of the game, Irish de­fensive linemen Chris Zorich and George Williams sacked BufTaloes' quarterback Charles 
S. Johnson on consecutive plays to set the stage for the play that put Ismail's name atop the National Football League's "Most Wanted" list and left Colorado head coach Bill McCartney at the mercy of the nation's armchair quarter­backs. 
After taking a delay of game penalty to run the clock down to 43 seconds, punter Tom Houen sent a 44-yard spiral to Ismail at the Irish 9. The Rocket weaved his way through the first wave of tacklers, nearly going down at one point before catching himself with his left hand, broke outside and sprinted untouched down the right sideline into the endzone. 
"I was just trying to make something happen," said the Irish flanker whose explosive nickname no longer requires quotation marks. 
Davis didn't see Ismail clear the first wave of tacklers, how­ever, and blocked linebacker Tim James from behind, precipitating what would 



The ClbseMJr.IA& f'tlc*> Chris Zorich, pictured above, notched 10 tackles in the 1991 Orange Bowl. In that final game of his college career, Zorich sacked Buffalo quarterback Charles Johnson twice during Colorado's final offensive series. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
announces 
Auditions for Advanced Directing Projects 
Wednesday, January 16 and Thursday, January 17 at 7:00PM Laboratory Theatre-Washington Hall 
No preparation is necessary for the audition 
The Observer page 17 
become only the third-biggest controversy of the week (behind Who's No. 1? and Should There Be A Playoff System?) 
"I still don't think it was a clip," Davis said. "I thought I got my head down in front of him." 
James, a linebacker who tal­lied five tackles and a fumble recovery in the game but will be remembered only as "the victim" in this scenario, was the last player besides Rouen with any real chance to stop Ismail. 
"He (Davis) clipped me," James said. "I had him (Ismail) within grabbing distance and 'boom' someone hits me from behind. I had him." 
The official had the play right in front of him. But as sure as he was about the clip, he seemed just as unsure about the identity of the guilty party. 
"Who clipped on Rocket's punt return?" Notre Dame 
head coach Lou Holtz asked re­porters in the lockerroom. "I don't know. I asked twice and they gave me a different num­ber each time. They told me 46 or 36. But in the lockerroom ... I think it was Greg Davis (No. 26)." 
The penalty, which moved the ball back to the Irish 22, erased 63 yards from Ismail's return­yardage total and six points from Notre Dame's ever-so­brief 15-10 lead. The return it­self, however, will remain etched in the minds of all who saw it for years to come. 
Simply put, Ismail's 91-yard punt return represented one of the most courageous individual efforts the college game has ever witnessed. 
Had it stood, Georgia Tech no doubt would have been crowned the consensus national champion. Ismail, though, ran as if Notre Dame's own title hopes rested on the outcome of the game. Nothing, he thought, would prevent him from reaching the endzone. 
Davis had the same vision. Running alongside Ismail down the right sideline, he zeroed in on James and delivered the block that he thought would spring the Rocket to the outside where nobody could catch him. 
The senior safety, Notre Dame's second-leading tackler this season (58, tied with out­side linebacker Andre Jones), apologized to Ismail after the game. Even though he dis­agreed with the call, Davis rec­ognized his mistake in judge­ment. 
Whether or not James was in a position to make the tackle is debatable. What cannot be questioned, however, was Davis's determination to see that he did not. 
For that, he too should be commended. 
Backup quarterback steals show 
Johnson rallies Buffaloes to win, Mirer upset with loss 

By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
MIAMI -Colorado reserve quarterback Charles Johnson found himself in a most unusual position at halftime of the Orange Bowl against Notre Dame. 
The Buffaloes trailed the Irish 6-3 and Darian Hagan was injured in Colorado's last series of the half. That meant Johnson would suddenly be the key to Colorado's national champion­ship hopes in the second half. 
"Darian told me at halftime to concentrate and stay tough in the second half," Johnson said. 
Johnson followed his orders well, as he completed 5 of 6 passes for 80 yards and led the Buffaloes to a 10-9 victory and the Associated Press national championship. He was also named the game's most valu­able player. 
"I just couldn't be prouder of him," Colorado coach Bill McCartney said. 
Johnson had played in eight games at quarterback and had started contests against Missouri and Iowa State. He completed 10 of 18 passes for 151 yards in the victory over Missouri. 
Johnson didn't necessarily post staggering numbers against Notre Dame, but he made the big plays when it 
Rick Mlrer 
counted. 

He completed a big third­and-one pass to tight end Jon Boman midway through the third quarter that kept a drive alive and later resulted in a touchdown. He also made an­other third-down completion to wide receiver Mike Pritchard early in the fourth quarter that led to a field goal attempt that was blocked by Notre Dame's George Williams. 
He was able to keep together a Colorado offense that could have easily fallen apart with Hagan's injury. 
"I think it was a great team effort," Johnson said. "We came together as a group in the second half to pull off the win. I feel good about winning the most valuable player award, but it is a total team effort." 
Orange 
continued from page 20 
less in their next three posses­sions. Watters fumbled at his own 40, and the Buffaloes scored their only touchdown eight plays later on a one-yard run by Eric Bieniemy. Harper 
hit the PAT for a 10-9 advan­tage. Irish tailback Tony Brooks 

fumbled on the second play of Notre Dame's next series. Notre Dame forced a Colorado punt, but safety Greg Thomas intercepted a Mirer pass on the first play of that series. 
"We came up with the big 
plays to win the game," McCartney said. "Defensively, the turnovers that we got kept us ahead in the game in the second half." 
The Buffaloes controlled the 
Said Pritchard, "We talked at halftime about containing and playing within ourselves. Charles has some experience at quarterback, so we weren't concerned about the change. Charles pulled us through on offense." 
Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer completed 13 of 31 passes for 141 yards, but was also intercepted three times. 
That was the most intercep­tions he had thrown in one game this season, but it was also probably the most pres­sure he had faced all season. Mirer was sacked twice for losses of 13 yards. 
"I'm disappointed with the loss," he said. "It's not like Notre Dame to lose three games in one season. We made some mistakes but we played a great team up front." 
The Irish still lead the series 3-1 against Colorado....They are 8-8-1 in games played at the Orange Bowl. ...This was the first time in history that Notre Dame had gone to bowl games in four straight seasons. ...The Irish will open the 1991 season at home against Indiana on Sept. 7. 
ball for most of the fourth quarter, with Notre Dame run­ning just nine plays until the last series of the game. 
Colorado tried to run out the clock, but two sacks and a run­ning play for another loss re­sulted in a punt. That set the stage for Ismail's heroics. 
"It was fitting that it should end this way because all year long we've been having to reach deep to find a way to scratch out a victory," McCartney said. "It's a great moment for Colorado and I'm just proud to be part of it." 
If what happened on your inside happened on your outside, would you still smoke? 
t
AMERICAN CANCER 
SOCIETY' 

-
-
-
-~---------------­
page 18 The Observer
-
McGraw's women had successful break 
RENE FERRAN the Lady Techsters made a final on other aspects of her game. 
Sports Writer charge. "Her defense has improved Sheila Ethridge's three­greatly," McGraw said, "and pointer with 2:23 left cut the since she forces teams to play CHICAGO -The Notre Dame Irish lead to 63-58, but man against us, it opens things women's basketball team took Louisiana Tech then went up inside, and both Krissi and some giant steps toward its scoreless for a minute, while Margaret are playing well. It's a first-ever NCAA tournament bid Haysbert and Krissi Davis sank tribute to Karen that she's over the Christmas break. two free throws each to put the unselfish enough to get the ball 
The Irish (10-3) won the game out of reach. to the open players inside." Texaco-Hawk Classic in Davis scored fifteen of her The Irish returned home from Philadelphia, defeating team-high 21 points in the Philly long enough to rout perennial NCAA powers second half, and Notre Dame Detroit 87-53. Notre Dame Louisana Tech and host St. hit 12 of 15 free throws down raced to a 4 7-20 halftime lead Joseph's. In addition, Notre the stretch to ice the victory. and never trailed. Davis had 17 Dame ran its record to 4-0 in The next evening, Notre points and Robinson 14 to lead conference play with lopsided Dame knocked off Classic host the Irish. victories over Marquette, St. Joseph's 72-53 to win the Notre Dame next headed to Butler, and Detroit, extending tourney. The Irish took the lead Indianapolis to face a 10-1 its streak of consecutive league for good on Karen Robinson's Butler team. However, the Lady victories to 28, and jumping 16-footer, which sparked an Bulldogs were without Julie into the national ranking foT 11-0 run to give them a 24-14 VanDielingen, the leading the first time in team history; lead. The lead grew to 14 on scorer and rebounder in the the Irish are No. 22 in this two Sherri Orlosky jumpers, MCC, due to an injured Achilles week's AP and USA Today poll. but a 9-2 Hawk run gave Notre tendon. Still, Butler hung 
Over the break, Notre Dame's Dame only a 42-35 halftime tough, and, led by Jill average margin of victory was advantage. Rexwinkel, were within eight at 
23.7 points per game, and the The Irish came out red-hot in halftime, 37-29. team held its opponents to only the second half, scoring the The Irish finally shook off the 
34.2 percent shooting from the first 12 points to up their lead pesky Lady Bulldogs as Nowlin field in the six games. to 54-35 with only 9:56 and Davis combined for 10 
"We've really concentrated a remaining. St. Joseph's was points during a 16-0 spurt to lot on defense since the Indiana held to just 18 second-half take a 65-38 lead with 8:51 game," Irish head coach Muffet points on 8-31 shooting. remaining. Butler got no closer McGraw said. "The Marquette Robinson led the Irish with 16 than 14 the rest of the way as game was definitely the turning points. Margaret Nowlin added the Irish won 80-64. Davis point of our year. On offense, 14, and Orlosky, Haysbert, and ended up with 25 points, while we played our best game of the Coquese Washington chipped in Robinson added 16 and Nowlin season, and our defense started eight apiece. 15. to come around." "The tourney was very McGraw was pleasantly sur­
Against Marquette, Notre important for us in that it put prised by how her team easily Dame held the Warriors to only us into the national spotlight handled its MCC rivals. 
26.6 percent shooting for the and got us ranked," McGraw "It's not that our starters game en route to an easy 109-said. "In terms of confidence, to were 50 points better than 56 win. Comalita Haysbert know that they could play with their starters," she said. "Our scored 19 points to lead a any team in the country was a bench is very strong, so that balanced Irish attack in which big step forward [for the when we sub, we don't lose every player on the roster team]." anything." scored. Another key for the Irish has Orlosky, Tootie Jones and 
In the opening round of the been the play of All-American Kristin Knapp -all freshmen ­Texaco-Hawk Classic, Notre candidate Robinson. Although played key roles off the bench Dame upset then 11th-ranked her scoring has been down this during the break, and McGraw Louisiana Tech 71-66. A 16-3 year, she has more than made anticipates their continuing to run in the first half helped the up for it with her defense and improve and contribute to the Irish build a 39-25 halftime playmaking. team. lead. McGraw noted that while in "We have a lot of talent, a lot 
In the second half, Notre the past, her star had to do of depth on the bench, and Dame increased its lead to 18 everything in order for the Irish we're going to start using it points at 61-43 with 7:36 to win, the talent on this year's more in the upcoming games," remaining, and then held on as !>lJUad has allowed her to focus McGraw said. 

Notre Dame's final game over break was at De Paul last Friday. The Irish scored the first nine points of the contest and never looked back, trouncing the Blue Demons 81­
66. With the victory, the Irish snapped a six-game losing streak against De Paul dating 
Women 
continued from page 20 
scoring 12 points, dishing out five assists, and making five steals ... Davis added nine 
Wednesday, January 16, 1991 
back to the 1986-87 season. Haysbert led Notre Dame with 21 points and a career-high 10 rebounds, while Washington scored a career-best 20 points, 12 in the first half when the Irish built a 43-26 halftime lead. 
points and 10 rebounds ... Freshmen Katura Jones and Kara Leary did not play ... Notre Dame's next game is Saturday evening at 5 p.m. at Marquette to conclude a four­game road trip ... see the Scoreboard for a complete boxscore. 

~-I:Happy ~Birthday MARTYFOOS! This is the big One! Love, Courtney  LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS Friday, February 1, 1991 • Joyce ACC • 8:00p.m. -4:00a.m. Contact Your Hall Representative • Sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics Proceeds to benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics  
Notre Dame Communications and Theatre announces Auditions for The Ice Wolf Directed by Reginald Bain Wednesday, January 16 and Thursday, January 17 at 7:00PM Laboratory Theatre-Washington Hall The Ice Wolf, the second Studio Series production of the 1990-91 season, is a play for young audiences which will be performed in the laboratory theatre. No preparation is necessary for the audition.  

-
-
The Observer page 19

ACROSS 29 Rapprochement of a sort 
1 Recedes 
33 Crux 

5 Where Tabriz is 
35 Chits 

9 Swell party 
38Relish 13 Building-site 
40 Ballerina
sight 

Tallchief 15 Corrida animal 
42 Electees 18 Choir voice 
43 Shoulders 17 "Salome" king warmer 18 To-do 44 Pertinent 19 Coin of 5 Across 45 Appear 20Renowned 47 Circus ex-quarterback performer 22--nod (grow 48 Gear position drowsy) 50 Org. for Jets 23 Editor's 
and Giants notation 51 French perfume 24 Petitioners 
center 54 Astronauts' org. 

27 Summer time in 
Vt. 57 Play the stoolie 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

:!ROSSWORD 
58 Renowned ex-quarterback 64 Tunes 66 Chamber-music composition 87 Discontinue 88 Osiris's partner 89 Corn holders 70 Heads, to Arletty 71 Race segments 72 Frances and Ruby of films 73 Not this 
DOWN 
1 Nymph who loved Narcissus 2 Harte of letters 3Renowned ex-quarterback 4Act uppity toward s"-girll" 8 Hayward role 
7 Song fora 

28 James Joyce's 
Down 
"The-"
8 Diva Jessye 

30Ciamor
9 Grill's partner 

31 Key person 
32 Road curves11 Flight part 34 Rows 
14 Border 37 Renowned ex-quarterback
21 Me.-to-Fia. hwy. 25 Jeanne d'Arc et 

38 Patron saint of al.: Abbr. 
Norway 

28 Rockwell and 39 Cheer Allegra 41 Home of Iowa's 27 Madame Bovary Cyclones 
GARY LARSON SPELUNKERTHE FAR SIDE 
~,.,, 


Primitive UFOs 


48 Carte du jour 49 Protected by 
law 51 Knights' quest 52 First Puccini 
Turandot: 1926 53 Hove clear, as an anchor 
55 Banking abbr. 58 Form of 
trapshooting s9Dies­ao Desperate 81 Result of a sack 82 On the briny 83 Snug spot 85 Draft org. 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 


Send them a subscription to The Observer 
....:.

Name Address City State Zip 
-----------------------------------------------------~--------------------------­
Sports
page 20 Wednesday, January 16, 1991 
Orange Bowl closes bizarre year 
By GREG GUFFEY long be remembered for what session of the game didn't re­Sports Editor was possibly Ismail's last punt sult in any points, but a Jim return in a Notre Dame uni­Sexton punt pinned Colorado MIAMI -It was a fitting end­form. He caught the ball at his on its own three. 
ing to a most bizarre season of own nine, skirted past a hand­The Irish defense held and 
college football. ful of tacklers and streaked up Ismail returned a Buffalo punt 
Colorado downed Notre Dame the right sideline for the appar­to the Colorado 32. Hentrich's 10-9 to win the Federal ent game-winning touchdown. field goal ·attempt four plays Express Orange Bowl, after a But the clip by Irish senior Greg later hit the right upright. 91-yard punt return by Raghib Davis brought the ball back to Colorado used its running Ismail was nullified by a clip­the Notre Dame 22. game to put the first points on ping penalty in the game's last "The return by Rocket Ismail the board during the next minute. was one of the greatest individ­series. The Buffaloes used eight 
The Buffaloes (10-1-1) earned ual efforts I've seen," Holtz consecutive running plays to 
the Associated Press national said. "I don't know if the clip gain a first-and-goal on the championship with the victory, had anything to do with the re­seven yard line. The Irish de­but United Press International turn, but I certainly hope it fense held on the next three chose undefeated Georgia Tech did." plays and Jim Harper nailed a (11-0-1) as its champion of a Even with the clip, Notre 22-yard field goal for a 3-0 season that had no fewer than 
Dame still had 43 seconds to Colorado lead. 
six teams hold the top ranking get into range for a possible The Irish wasted little time in at one time. The Irish (9-3) Craig Hentrich field goal. Rick responding. Mirer hit Ismail finished sixth in both polls. Mirer completed a fourth-down with two passes for 21 total "I couldn't be prouder of our pass to Derek Brown for 15 yards and Jerome Bettis had 
kids," Colorado coach Bill yards to the 38, but Colorado two carries for 24 yards that McCartney said after the vic­cornerback Deon Figures inter­took them to the Colorado 17. tory. "That was a great team cepted a Mirer pass two plays Watters scored the game's first we beat out there. If you look at later to seal the victory. touchdown five plays later on a what Colorado has done all Buffalo junior quarterback two-yard run. year, the teams we've beaten, Charles Johnson came off the But the key to this drive was 
we should maintain our rank­bench to replace injured starter that Hentrich's point after at­ing." Darian Hagan and then became tempt was blocked by That Notre Dame had a one of the game's unlikely Colorado's Ronnie Bradford. heroes. Johnson completed 5 of That blocked kick would later
chance to win the game was 
amazing given its five 6 passes for 80 yards in the re­provide the one-point margin of turnovers, including three in a serve role to garner offensive victory for the Buffaloes. span of four plays. The Irish most valuable player honors. Notre Dame extended its lead had two fumbles and three in­"It was credit to him the way on the first series of the second terceptions. he played," said Notre Dame's half when Hentrich connected "We competed hard but Scott Kowalkowski, who played on a 24-yard field goal. A 26­
turned the ball over and you against Johnson in high school. yard pass from Mirer to Brown can't do that," Holtz said. "He had us off-balance some of and a 19-yard run by Watters "Three turnovers in four plays the time." helped set up that score. 
The Cbserverlf'ile ~

Notre Dame had its chances
is disastrous. You can't win a Then, the Irish turned care-
Raghib Ismail, shown here in the Navy game, unleashed his game-
football game doing that." in the scoreless first quarter. A 
see ORANGE 1page 17 breaking talents once again against Colorado, returning a punt 91
This was a game that will 15-play drive on its first pos­
yards for an apparent touchdown. 

Ellis leads 6-9 Irish over West Virginia
Ismail, Greg Davis should 
By KEN TYSIAC just going to enjoy tonight and able to cut that deficit to seven Associate Sports Editor see what comes tomorrow." points until there was just 3:23 Irish coach Digger Phelps left in the game. The Irish It may have been the best also would not say whether quickly put an end to that rally 
be lauded for dedication 
Frank Pastor 
performance of LaPhonso Ellis was eligible after his team as Ellis dunked and Daimon 
Associate Sports Editor 
Ellis's Notre Dame career. It raised its record to 6-9. Sweet, who finished with 20 also may have been his last. "Nobody has told me any­points on 10 for 12 from the MIAMI -Raghib Ismail had 
Ellis scored a career-high 32 thing yet," Phelps said. field, made a breakaway layup. been in this same position 
points and added 11 rebounds Ellis started out a bit slowly Phelps was pleased with his many times before, kneeling 
to lead the Irish to an 84-70 against the Mountaineers, who squad's performance, which, in the endzone awaiting a 
triumph over West Virginia fell to 7-5 on the season with coupled with Saturday's victory congratulatory hug from his 
Tuesday night at the Joyce ACC. the loss. He did not score until over Miami gave the Irish back­teammates following yet 
But after the game he was he pumped in a three-pointer to-hack victories for the first another exciting touchdown 
forced to answer to rumors that with just 7:52 left in the half to time since the first two games run, reception or return. 
he may not have done as well give the Irish a 24-22 lead. of the season. It never really mattered 
in the classroom last semester Soon afterward, he scored eight "We didn't have the crucial
Frank Pastor 

as he did on the court last points in a 16-4 run which turnovers tonight," he said. just that he got there. A Associate Spons Editor 
how he got into the endzone, 
night. Will poor grades sideline turned a 27-26 deficit into a "We had some negative gaps, yellow flag changed all that, 
him for the rest of the 1990-91 42-31 lead which was never but we were able to turn it however, when an official aided by a clip from 
campaign? again seriously threatened by around. We played aggressive thought the Rocket's 91-yard teammate Greg Davis at the 
"I don't know," Ellis said West VIrginia. defense. LaPhonso played as punt return for a touchdown Irish 37. 
Tuesday after the game. Ellis had 13 points by half­well as he has ever played, and with 43 seconds remaining in With that, the most 
"Things are kind of up in the time, when Notre Dame (Keith) Tower (11 points, 8 re-Notre Dame's 10-9 Orange 
air right now, and I won't know enjoyed a 43-34 advantage. Bowl loss to Colorado was see ROCKET I page 17 anything until tomorrow. I'm The Mountaineers were not 
see MEN I page 16 

Women's hoops pulls out ugly win over Loyola 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
CHICAGO-It wasn't pretty by any stretch of the imagination, but the Notre Dame women's basketball team extended its current win streak to nine by defeating Loyola 66-55 last night at Alumni Gym. It was Notre Dame's 29th consecutive conference victory, and upped its record to 10-3, 5-0 in the MCC. 
Loyola came into the game 1­10, while the Irish were ranked 22th in the nation, yet the Irish were unable to shake the Ramblers in what Head Coach Muffet McGraw termed "a pretty weak effort." 
For the most part, the referees were lenient about the physical play, but the Irish were unable to take advantage inside against the smaller Ramblers. For the game, Notre Dame outrebounded Loyola by only five, 37-32, and committed 22 turnovers, many on sloppy entry passes into the post. 
Only the Irish defense saved the day, forcing 27 turnovers and allowing Loyola to shoot only 38.6 percent from the field. 
Neither team was able to find its groove at the beginning of the game. Eventually, the Irish began to hit a few shots, and led 18-3 with 11:10 left in the first half. 
Loyola coach Marty Hawkins spent two timeouts trying to charge up the Ramblers, but to no avail, as Loyola shot only 24 percent from the field and committed 14 turnovers. Notre Dame capitalized on enough of its opportunities to take a 36­14 halftime lead. 
In the second half, the Irish came out with the attitude that the game could not end fast enough for them. McGraw substituted freely, trying to find someone who could provide a spark, but was unsuccessful. 
"This was the first game all year where nobody played well," McGraw said. "The bench didn't contribute, and the starters didn't play well." 
Notre Dame led 57-36 with 
8:39 left, but Loyola suddenly received a wake-up call, and while never seriously challenging to take the lead, the Ramblers did put a slight scare into the Irish, only to succeed in making the final score respectable. 
Loyola scored 10 straight points to get within 11 with 

5:42 remaining, but after a Notre Dame timeout, Krissi Davis knifed between two defenders for a basket, and the Irish turned up the intensity on defense a notch, forcing a Rambler turnover. From then on, it became a matter of time. 
"We usually start out games pretty slow, and it takes us a while to get into it," said Loyola forward Sherry Metz, who led all scorers with 23 points, 20 in the second half. "We waited too long, and we were down by too much to have our spark get us back into the game." 
"I was wondering when we were going to decide to start pressuring, playing defense, and controlling the tempo," McGraw said. "We came out tentative, and mentally, we weren't ready to play." 
Margaret Nowlin paced the 
Irish with 15 points, many on lobs thrown over a Rambler zone which played in front of Notre Dame's post players all night. 
"We didn't play all that well. We let ourselves play down to their level, which we can't afford to do any more," Nowlin said. "The offense didn't click as much as it has in the past few games." 
McGraw echoed her senti­ments. "I hope it's the last time this happens," she said. 
Notes: Other than Nowlin, only Karen Robinson was in double figures for Notre Dame, 
see WOMEN I page 18 




