' 



IU2·1992 SISQUICI Nil NNIAL 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1991VOL. XXIV NO. 31 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND hosts historic South African conference 
Cohen speaks on U.S. role in n~w economy 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
As South Africa shirts to a 
post-Apartheid government, 
IIerman Cohen reminds onlook­
ers that "black economic em­
powerment is every bit as im­
portant as black political em­
powerment." 
Thus, encouraging black en­trepreneurship and small busi­ness development is at the fore­front of the United States gov­ernment's investment strategy for a post-Apartheid South Africa, according to Cohen, as­sistant secretary of State for African aiTairs. 
Cohen spoke Sunday on "The Hole of the U.S. Government in a Post-Apartheid South Africa" as part of an historical confer­ence, "The ANC and New In­vestment in South Africa." 
During the three-day confer­ence sponsored by the Univer­sity, members from the African National Conference (ANC) and political rival group Inkatha will meet U.S. government rep­resentatives and executives of more than 40 major U.S. cor­porations to discuss developing a first-ever policy for invest­ment in post-Apartheid South Africa. 
• Mbeki lecture/ page 5 
The disparity of income among racial groups is of pri­mary concern as South Africa moves toward a post-Apartheid government, Cohen said. Sixty percent of the personal income in South Africa goes to the 16 percent of the population which is white, he said 
White income is over ten 
times that of blacks and three 
times over Asians, he added. 
To "narrow the income gap between whites and South Africans of other races in a way that expands the economic pie" would bring the country one step closer to a non-racial democracy, Cohen said. 
"A strong economy will be critical for the success of a post-Apartheid government," he said. 
Sensing this, the U.S. gov­ernment has shifted its policy toward South Africa before the new government is in office, ac­cording to Cohen. The Compre­hensive Anti-Apartheid Act (C­AAA) in July lifted many of the sanctions against South Africa and paved the way for in­creased economic assistance 
see COHEN I page 7 


The makings of a new quad? 
~ith construction apparent on both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses JOin the trend and are creating realistic possibilities for the future. ' 

The Observer/Jon Novak ND architecture student~ 
Pandora's Book~, city reach deal 
Editor's note: Due to an editing error. the following was run in draft form in Friday's issue. The following is the cor­rect version. The Observer regrets the error. 
By DAVID KINNEY Associate News Editor 
Pandora's Books has struck a tentative compromise with the city of South Bend after its long battle to relocate and expand the store. 
Under the agreement, the 
city would rezone a 66-by-120 foot parcel of land on the corner of Howard Street and St. Peter's Street from its current 'A residential' status to a ·c commercial' zone. 
This would allow the book­store to build a new facility on the property, said City Attorney Richard Nussbaum. 
The settlement between the city and the bookstore would call for the Notre Dame­Howard Partnership, which owns Pandora's, to sell the property on the corner of Notre Dame and Howard to a non­commercial third party. If the land cannot be sold, the city would buy the land to preserve it for residential use, according to Mayor Joe Kernan in a South Bend Tribune article. 
The partnership must also drop the suit against the city, Nussbaum said. 
Although both parties have accepted the settlement, it is "not a done deal," Nussbaum said. The petition must first pass the Area Plan Commission, which will consider the issue in an Oct. 15 meeting, and the city 
see STORE I page 8 
Mbeki calls 
for continued 

struggle 
By DAVID KINNEY Associate News Editor 
The struggle to end white mi­nority rule must continue in South Africa, even though the pillars of Apartheid are collaps­ing, said Thabo Mbekl, director of international affairs for the African National Congress (ANC). 
"It is necessary still to sustain the international pressures," said Mbeki, "because we have not reached the stage where our country is not still governed by a white minority regime, where everybody has gotten the right to vote, where South Africa is a free country." 
Mbeki is the leader of an ANC delegation visiting Notre Dame this week as part of landmark talks with United States gov­ernment and business leaders on the topic of investment in a post-Apartheid South Africa. 

Mbeki, a member of the ANC for 35 years, emphasized the importance of international support and tho struggle in South Africa in achieving the goals of the ANC. "The struggle developed such a momentum that the offensive against the Apartheid system developed 
see MBEKll page 6 




Flanner Hall adopts new door-lock policy 
By ELIZABETH COSTELLO 

News Writer 
Flanner Hall Council voted recently to lock the dorm's out­side doors 24 hours a day. 
The council responded to a "substantial increase in crime," according to Flanner Co-presi­dent Rich Delevan. The theft of several thousand dollars in cash and compact disc players, along with major vandalism in bathrooms, brought about the vote by the council, Delevan said. 
The 24-hour policy will be implemented on a trial' basis through October break, after which the council plans to re­consider the measure. Delevan added that Campus Security Di­rector Rex Rakow recom­mended that Flanner keep such a policy to cut down on crime. 
The Hall Council voted twice on the security measure before it became policy. They origi­nally voted 10-9 against the policy. After members talked to students at section meetings, the council voted 12-7 in favor of the policy. 
Hepresentatives at section meetings also advised students to lock their own doors. 
Delevan said there has been some resistance to the new pol­icy by Flanncr residents who feel it is not necessary, and that dorm crime isn't that bad. The 
students don't like carrying 
their keys around all the time, 
he said. 
"We're proud the Hall gov­ernment is able to function in this manner [to protect the residents]. Usually something like this would have to be im­posed. We're hoping to take these kinds of positive steps that affect the lives of people on other issues as well," Delevan said. 
Delevan plans to contact the other hall council presidents about the measure, but right now only a few other dorms have similar policies. 
Tammy Liddell, rector of Knott l-Iall, said Campus Secu­rity recommended that Knott Hall lock its doors 24 hours a day when the construction on the ROTC building took place last year. The 24-hour policy later became permanent. 
Siegfried Rector Sister Mau­reen Minlhane also Instituted the policy last year during con­struction and said a definite decrease in the number of In­truders occurred. The students understand the need for the policy, she added. 
Hakow told the rectors at the beginning of the school year about the Increase in crime in South Bend. "This was an in­centive for me to keep them [the doors] closed," Minihane said. 


be led by Professor Ava Collins·and Professor Hilary Rad­•Freshman Advisory Council elections for several dorms will be held today from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. and from 5 ner. to 7 p.m. Only freshmen will be participating in these 
•Knights of the Immaculata will be sponsoring
elections. 

Benediction and the Rosary at the Grotto for the Feast of Our Lady of the Most Holy Rosary today at 6:45 p.m. 
•A mass for theology majors will be celebrated by Father Himes today at 5:15 p.m. in the Badin Chapel. 
•campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) willThe Mass will be followed by dinner and discussion in 
have its first organizational meeting today in the
the faculty area of South Dining Hall. 
Montgomery Theatre at 7 p.m. Any questions, call Missy Sherman at 283-2926.
•A meeting for the SMC-ND Summer Programs to London and Rome will be held today at 6:15p.m. in Car­
•The Effective Interviewing Workshop to be held this 
roll Hall. Meet teachers, previous students, free pizza, afternoon in the Career and Placement Services Con­and see slides. 
ference Room is cancelled. 
•The Notre Dame Feminist Forum will be having a •John Bradshaw tickets are available for free withmeeting today at 6:30 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Loft NDtSMC Student IDs at LaFortune Box Office today andtitled "Everything You Always Wanted to Know About tomorrow. Staff/Faculty Tickets will be availableFeminism But Were Afraid to Ask." The discussion will 
Wednesday. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Activist goes to jail for meeting Arafat 
•RAMLE, Israel -A magistrate's court on Sunday sentenced Israeli peace activist Abie Nathan to 18 months in prison for meeting with PLO leader Vasser Arafat. "It's a sad day for democracy, for human rights and for peace," Nathan, 64, said in an interview. Nathan, a former air force pilot and founder of the pirate radio station Voice of Peace, said he remained convinced that Israeli leaders eventually would have to negotiate with the PLO. It was Nathan's second conviction in two years under an Israeli law that bars meetings with members of terrorist organizations. He has vowed to meet again with PLO leaders and has already met nine times with Arafat. 
Sayles wins at Tokyo Film Festival 
•TOKYO, Japan -John Sayles' "City of Hope", which deals with race relations, class and politics in a fictional New Jersey city, has won the Grand Prix at the Tokyo International Film Festival. The film was chosen 
OF INTEREST 
over 15 other works entered in the international division of the 10-day festival that ended Sunday. Special jury prizes went to "A Brighter Summer Day," a joint Japan­
U.S. work directed by Edward Yang and to the Chinese film "The Spring Festival," directed by Huang Jianzhong. 
NATIONAL Study dissects education quandary 
•NEW YORK -A study by Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. found that an overwhelming majority of first-year teachers think their students are too weighed down with outside problems to do well in school. The survey of 1,007 teachers cast fresh doubt on the likelihood of reaching six educational goals agreed upon two years ago by President Bush and the nation's governors. Some 98 percent surveyed stressed the importance of working well with parents. Seven out of ten complained, however, that many parents treat schools and teachers as "adversaries." More positively, 87 percent of surveyed teachers said their principal helped to create "an environment which will help students learn." 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ October 4 
VOLUME IN SHARES 174,222,900  NYSEINDEX 210.22  •  1.51  
381.24 ~ 3.23 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,961.76 ~ 23.03  
PRECIOUS METALS  
GoLD.  $2.10 to $357.70/oz.  
3.5¢ to $4.218/oz.  

ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1849: Author Edgar Allan Poe died in Baltimore at age 40. 

• 
In 1916: Georgia Tech defeated Cumberland Univers~y 222-0 in Atlanta. in a lopsided college football victory. 

• 
In 1960: Democratic presidential candidate John F. Kennedy and Republican opponent Richard M. Nixon held the second of their broadcast debates. 

• 
In 1982: The British musical "Cats," featuring the popular song "Memory," opened on Broadway. 

• 
In 1985: Palestinian gunmen hijacked the Italian cruise ship "Achille Lauro" in the Mediterranean with more than 400 people aboard. 


~--, 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, October 7,1991 The Observer page3 


Friends, former students remember Frank O'Malley 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT News Writer 
Over 200 former students and associates of the legendary ND English professor Frank O'Malley gathered this weekend at a conference held in his honor at the Center for Contin­uing Education. 
The conference was held to memorialize the teachings and writings of O'Malley, a 1934 ND graduate who lived and taught at tho university from 1936 until his death in 1974. 
Some themes of the confer­ence included O'Malley's influ­ence on the lives of his stu­dents, his thoughts on the Church, and his perspectives on literature. Panel discussions and reminiscences were at­tended by friends and alumni from across the country. 
John Meaney, a 1940 gradu­ate who recently published the biography "O'Malley of Notre Dame," said that people came to the conference, "to explore the secrets of Frank O'Malley's success as a teacher." 
Meaney said O'Malley's suc­cess lay In his unconventional approach to teaching. "O'Malley encouraged his stu-
IF YOU SEE NEWS HAPPENING CALL: 239-5303 
Club Column 
OCTOBBI 7, 1881 
1) The Mock Trial Association will hold its organizational meeting at 
7:30 pm on Wednesday, October 9 in the Montgomery Theater. Dues of $5 will be collected and case packets will be distributed. Please call Amy Cashore at 283-2538 if you have any questions. 
2) The Flying Club will have a meeting on Wednesday, October 9 at 
6:00 pm in 214 Cushing. There will be a short meeting followed by an entertaining video on Rying. Ground School classes to prepare for the FAA Private Pilot Written Test meet f!Very Sunday at 6:00 pm in 106 Cushing. Questions? Call Jennifer Martin at 283-2798. 
3) Center for Basic Learning Skills needs volunteers to tutor adults one morning a week from 9:30-11 :30. Transportation is provided. For more information call Dianne Dean at 283-2926. 
4) C.A.R.E. (Campus Alt.ance for Rape Er.mination) will be holding its first organizational meeting on Monday, October 7 at 7:00 pm in the Montgomery Theater. Questions? Call Missy Sherman at 283-2926. 
5) Women's Alt.ance will be meeting on Tuesday, October 8 at 9:30pm in 303 Haggar at Saint Mary's. Questions? Call Teresa at 284-5136 or Karen at 237-1985. 
6) Students United for Respect will have a general meeting at 7:45 pm on the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 
7) The ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club will be going to Dan O'Day's Ballroom in Mishawaka on Thursday, October 1 0. We will meet in front of Stepon at 8:15 pm. Dress is semi-formal. 
Work one weekend a month and eam $18,000 for college. 
If you have the mind for college, but not the money, the Indiana Anny National Guard has a golden opportunity for you. Lend us your brainpower one weekend a month and two weeks a year, and we'll give you $18,000 or more for college. 
Under the New GI Bill, you'll qualify for up to $5,000 for tuition and books. Then you'll get another $1LOOO -or more -in monthly Anny Guard paychecks. Plus, a cash bonus of up to $2,000 as soon 
as you finish Advanced Individual Training. 
And if you have college loans, the Guard will help you pay those off, too, with up to $1,500 extra per year. No other service offers you so many educational benefits, and asks so little of your time. 
So, if you can spare one weekend a month for your country, call your local recruiter. And help yourself to a higher education. 
219-234-9258 

Equal Opportunity Employer 
INDIANA 

Americans at their best 

dents not to fall into cliches." He taught "with a freshness they had rarely experienced," Meaney continued, "and he got away with a lot." 
John Evans, a 1949 graduate from Maine who attended the conference, spoke about O'Malley's Freshman Composi­tion class. He remembered that "Professor O'Malley made us write a paper for every class. He wanted our perceptions of everything. In one assignment, for example, we had to look at our left hand and describe it." 
O'Malley made an effort to get to know all of his students individually, according to 196 7 graduate Robert Reilly. "He was a man of unusual caring who awakened his students to what was inside them," Reilly said. 

Both Reilly and Evans spoke highly of O'Malley's course, Modern Catholic Writers. "It was a large lecture class," Reidy recalled, "with no set curriculum. We could read as little or as much as we wanted. We were not sure if Professor O'Malley even read our papers, since he never returned them." 
Meaney devoted several chap­ters of his book to the topic of O'Malley's lectures. He com­piled and presented his own notes along with those of some of his classmates to give a sense of how influential his teaching was. 
Meaney said he wrote the book because, "O'Malley needed to be memorialized." Although he had never written a book before, Meaney said this biography was not difficult to write. 
"After making it through a few of Professor O'Malley's classes," Meaney said, "writing a book was no problem." 
Pandora's Books looks to expand 
Pandora's Books pr~vides students with an alternative to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Pandora's is currently seeking a change in status from 'A residential' to a 'C commercial' zone. . 

Freshman Council elections begin today 
By ANDY RUNKLE 
News Writer 
Members of the 1991-92 Freshman Advisory Council will be selected today through a newly adopted elections pro­cess, according to Travis Reindl, elections coordinator. 
Voting will take place today from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5 to 7 p.m. in 13 residence halls. In­
• Hours: Mon. • Fri. 8:00-5:30 • 
Sat. 11:()().3:00 •
• 
: MAPLE LANE : 
: BARBER SHOP: 
2112 South Bend Avenue • •• South Bend, IN 46637 • 
• Appointments if Desired • 
• 272-6722 • 
formation will be posted in each hall concerning specific voting times and locations. 
The freshmen in each hall are responsible for choosing one representative to serve on the committee. In previous 
years, according to Reindl, the rector of each hall has selected the dorm representative. 
"The reaction has been pretty positive to the new procedure," said Reindl. "The new process is going well with no major snags. We will be able to smooth out the process for next year," he said. 
The Freshman Advisory 

I'!W.~~~~~ 
Freshman Advisory Council  
Elections are  
jJ\Q)llJ)Aw~ ~  
Iii  
Iill  Vote llam-lpm  
}I  5pm-7pm  . 1 

1:::\::::':::::::::::::::''''':::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::m::::::::::::~:::::::::'::::::~:~m::m~==~=~===~:::::~=:':':':'i:::::~::::::::::::::::::::~~~~$ :~,l~::=:::w:::::::::::::::::::::::::\::::::::~~:=::ii:'*:M:' ..l 
Council will function as the 
class officers for the Class of 
1995. "The committee is in­
volved in planning activities 
and addressing freshman con­
cerns,'' added Heindl. Once 
established, the committee will 
elect executive officers and 
establish sub-committees to 
deal with specific issues. 
A total of 55 students will 
compete for the 13 available 
positions to represent Breen-

Phillips, Farley, Fisher, Flanner, Howard, Keenan, Knott, Lewis, Lyons, Siegfried, Stanford, Walsh, and Zahm Halls. 
The election by-laws state 
that the winner must receive greater than 50 percent of the votes to win, said Reindl. If a student doesn't receive this majority, runoff elections will be held on Wednesday to de­termine the winner. 
The new election procedure requires that interested stu­dents complete a 10-signature petition, which places them on their hall ballot, according to Reindl. 
In nine halls, only one candi­date submitted a petition. In this case, the election was called off and the applicant was declared the winner by the Election Committee, he said. 
The students who have al­

ready been appointed to repre­
sentative status are Mark 
Frigon, Alumni; Andrea Ricker, 
Badin; Lou Weber, Cavanaugh; 
Eric Shultz, Dillon; M. Brian 
Coughlin, Grace; Timothy 
Schenck, Pangborn; Kellie G. 
Abbott, Pasquerilla East; 
Michelle Nasser, Pasquerilla 
West; and James Penilla, Saint 
Edward's. 
In Carroll, Morrissey, and 

Sorin Halls, no candidates en­
tered the election, Reindl said. 
The rectors of these throe halls 
will select the representatives. 
The Observer Monday, October 7,1991 
page4 

Midterms are approaching! TheCllseM!If..bn~ 
A Notre Dame student works on a project in one of the many com­puter labs on campus. As midterms rapidly approach, these labs will become one of the more fre uented s ts at Notre Dame. 
By TRAVIS SMITH News Writer 

The Cuban American Union of Student Advocates (C.A.U.S.A.) is hosting a conference this Thursday, October 10, in the Notre Dame Law School Court­room titled "Preparing For Cuba's Reconstruction." 
Running from 9 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., the conference will focus on Democratic Institution Building in Cuba. 
Heriberto Lopez Alberola, President of C.A.U.S.A., founded this student organization two years ago from Notre Dame Cuban American law students who are working toward what he called "Cuban Recon­struction." This term was frrst discussed by C.A.U.S.A. and Al­herola last year to symbolize the process of institutionalizing democracy into Cuba, which, with economic reforms, would lead to a free-market economy. 
Says Alberola, "The opportu-
Law School slated to host Cuban-American conference 
nity to play a role in the found­ing of a new nation could he the task of a lifetime. This formidable task must begin with a solid foundation of edu­cation and preparation of minds and hearts. It will be up to the Cuban-American community to earn the trust and respect of their counterparts on the island to prove themselves worthy trustees of their nation's destiny." 
Ten percent of the Cuban population has sought exile in the United States. Until now, Alberola said, this ten percent has spoken on democracy, but not acted. Alberola feels that these Cuban-Americans can make a difference; they are not monitored at gun point as their friends and families are in Cuba. 
Alberola sees this conference as one of many steps toward democracy in Cuba. He stresses, however, that the con­ference is for everyone, not just Cuban-Americans. "This is a chance for us to make a differ­ence in the future course of a country. I would like to see this conference filled with students and faculty," 
The conference will include a luncheon, preceded and fol­lowed by guest speakers. Among the speakers will he: Pedro Luis Yanez Roman, Legal Advisor to the Council of Eu­rope; Luis Aguilar Leon, pro­fessor of government at Ge­orgetown University; Charles Rice, professor of jurisprudence and constitutional law; Igor Grazin, visiting professor at Notre Dame Law School and member of the Supreme jurisprudence at Notre Dame. 
The luncheon's guest of honor will be ND\Head Football Coach Lou Holtz. 
Tickets will be on sale for $10 in the Notre Dame Law School building. The luncheon portion of the conference will begin at 
12:45 p.m. Thursday. 

Hunter calls for changes in South African education 
By KATHY MASSA News Writer 
Apartheid education in South Africa has ended, but the nation is faced with instituting the actual changes, according to Peter Hunter. 
Hunter, of Witwatersrand University in South Africa, dis­cussed the traditional educa­tional system, the developments over the past decade, and the end of Apartheid education on Friday during a lecture titled "The End of Apartheid Educa­tion: What Next?" 
Hunter said that Apartheid education, the traditional edu­cational system of the nation, is "terrible, unjustified and a ma­jor _])_art of the evil of apartheid." 
Under the traditional educa­tional system, schools are seg­regated, he said. The white schools enjoy better educated and more thoroughly trained teachers than the black schools. 
A "skewed allocation of re­sources" allotted more money toward the education of white children than to the education of black children. The textbooks and the curriculum reflected a "white, racist perspective," said Hunter. Black children, for example, learned the history of the white race, he said. 
During the 1980s, according to Hunter, a surge of "communal resistance to black education emerged." The decade, Hunter said, was char­acterized by revolts, boycotts and strikes, and "it was very rare for schools to be in opera­tion for a full year." 
The 1980s saw "increasing political awareness among young blacks and whites," Hunter said. In addition, black teachers began to lose their au­thority because students viewed them as part of the "evil of apartheid." 
Marked by an "erosion of educational opportunities," the decade created a lost genera­tion. Hunter defmed this gen­eration as a group of individu­als who have a great capacity to learn but are "colossally dis­empowered by apartheid." 
Apartheid education has ended -in policy. The chal­lenge now, according to Hunter, is to practically institute new developments. Many organizations have taken shape with the goal of instituting change, including the National Education Policy Initiative (NEPI), which focuses on edu­cational concerns like adult ed­ucation, curriculum and teacher education. 
Other organizations analyze the quantitative aspects of edu­cational programs. Hunter said that "financial constraints have been ignored." Only 19.5 percent of the national budget is available for education. Hunter said that South Africa will never be able to spend more than that on education because of other concerns like health services. 
The majority of the money appropriated to educational authorities, he said, will be spent on elementary education and basic adult education, rather than on universities. Hunter emphasized the great need for university communica­tion and cooperation with community leaders. 
Blacks currently entering the universities are unprepared for the course load because they were deprived of quality ele­mentary and secondary educa­tion. He said that support groups have been instituted by universities for these students. 
Hunter said that it is of ut­most importance that universi­
see APARTHEID I paqe 5 
New York Times Newspaper Carriers Needed for delivery to Dorms & Faculty Offices Weekday Mornings or Weekend Shifts Contact: Greg Kletzky, 272-5896  Satisfaction Comedy and ventriloquism October 8 8:00 P.M. Theodore's Guaranteed (or your money back) Tickets $3.00 at LaFortune  
FROM THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL ~·­~iJ} r LOST HORIZONS brings you: Beautiful handknit sweaters; hats; gloves; sturdy, colorful, handwoven Tibetan bags; unique Nepali jewelry and art object; and unique Tibetan wool clothing When: October 7th-12th 9am-5pm Where: LaFortune Student Center Sorin #36 Sponsored By: Student Activities  


Monday, October 7, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Mbeki discusses foreign investment in South Africa 
OlseMII' Rle Pho1D In an effort to promote dissent against abortions, right-to-life protestors spanned the country Sunday. Protestors formed "life-chains" in 350 cities around the nation. 
By SANDY WIEGAND Associate News Editor 
Foreign investment in South Africa will be an essential ele­ment in the success -or failure -of political reform in the country, Thabo Mbeki, International Affairs director of the African National Congress said in a pitch to corporate executives at Notre Dame on Sunday. 
African National Congress (ANC) officials, U.S. government representatives and executives from more than 40 major U.S. corporations will hold meetings at Notre Dame through Tuesday to discuss investment in post­
,....•.'
;~ 
...... t 

apartheid South Africa. Inkatha and other rival political groups are also attending. 
South Africa, Mbeki said, is suffering an economic crisis when economic strength is most necessary. "Desperate human needs" exist as remnants of apartheid policies, he said, and the country "is regressing to the position of a colonial economy," in that it exports chiefly raw materials, and imports manufactured goods. Foreign investment would bring capital into the country, as well as modern technology, he said. 
The prerequisite for both for­eign and domestic investment, a democratic constitution based on "one person, one vote," still has not been met, Mbeki said, but companies should "begin making preparations for re-en­try." 
Corporations will not have long to wait, he said, at least to see the first steps toward a democratic constitution. Mbeki anticipates an all-party congress to meet before the end of the year to make provisions for an interim government, and decide who will draft a new constitution. 
He refused to predict how long it might be before the congress would make these de­cisions, but commented, "We would want to approach it with a certain urgency." 
~----------------ARTHUR----------------~ 
ANDERSEN 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C. 
All MBA's and undergraduate accounting and finance majors are invited to attend a presentation and reception at 7:30p.m. hosted by ARTHUR ANDERSEN on Tuesday, October 8th in the lower level of the CCE. 
Featured Speaker: Jim Kackley Chicago Office Managing Partner and Member Arthur Andersen's Worldwide Organization Board of Partners 
Dress is Casual Refreshments to Fallaw 
The ANC recommends that South Africa follow the example of Namibia, and organize a constituent assembly to draw up a new constitution, Mbeki said. 
South Africa continues to ex­perience "intolerable levels of poverty," he said, adding that 50 percent of the country's citi­zens live below the poverty line. The unemployment r:ate is over 40 percent, and homelessness is a significant problem, he said. 
And in post-apartheid South Africa, where 16 percent of the population is white, it is the black population which suffers. White citizens hold a radically disproportionate number of 
Anti-abortion protestors form 'life chains' at clinics 
(AP)-Tens of thousands of 
people participated in anti­
abortion rallies and held hands 
in hundreds of "life chains" 
across the nation Sunday to 
demand abortions be outlawed. 
More than 665,000 people 
formed 363 "life chains" in 350 
cities around the nation, ac­
cording to The National Life 
Chain, a Yuba City, Calif.-based 
group that organized the ral­
lies. 
"We must stand firmly against the killing of the un­born children, while reaching out to help women who face troubled pregnancy," Royce Dunn, the group's national di­rector, said in a statement. 
Police estimates for turnouts were unavailable in most cities. The rallies were peaceful and no arrests were reported. In some cities pro-choice demon­strators held counter-rallies, 
but numbered only in the dozens in most cases. 
In Boston, about 25,000 peo­ple participated in a three-mile "Respect Life Walk" organized by Massachusetts Citizens for Life to raise funds for women's shelters, post-abortion support groups and education centers that advise about abortion al­ternatives, organizers said. They didn't say how much was raised . 
National organizers said the biggest "life chain" was in the St. Petersburg, Fla., area. Steven Wood, head of the Florida Life Center, said 28,000 people lined 29 miles of U.S. 19 there. 
managerial and technical jobs, Mbeki said. 
Citing an example of the dis­crepancy, he said that in the last century there has only been one black mining manager -"in a mining country." 
Labor productivity in South Africa is increasing at a very slow rate, and according to Mbeki, a low level of education among the black population is the cause. 
Dramatic reforms will be necessary in both .the public and private sectors of the new South Africa, Mbeki said, and there are "certain fundamental disequilibriums that have to be addressed." 
Elsewhere in Florida, about 20,000 demonstrators lined 19 miles of two major thorough­fares in Orlando, 10,000 took part in a 16-mile chain in Fort Lauderdale and more than 8,000 lined boulevards in Miami, organizers said. 
"There are 10 kids in my family," said Tampa demon­strator Byron Giddens, 25. "If my parents had believed in abortion, I wouldn't have all my brothers and sisters." 
In Torrance, Calif., 19 miles southwest of Los Angeles, po­lice estimated the turnout at 10,000 to 15,000 along a 10­mile chain. Organizers put the figure at 25,000. 
In San Antonio, organizer~ said up to 9,000 demonstrators formed a 6 1/2-mile link. Organizers said about 17,000 turned out in Louisville, Ky., and about 5,000 lined both sides of a four-mile stretch of a main street in Durham, N.C. 
A participant in Chartlotte, N.C., Crystal Henderson, said she had two abortions as a teenager. 
Apartheid 
continued from page 4 
ties adapt to the changing stu­dent body. Universities are no longer 'white,' they are 'multi­cultural.' Hunter said, "hopefully, these universities will soon become predomi­nantly black." 
As a result of this change, he said, universities must change their curriculum and overall character. Hunter said that many people, university and community authorities alike, "take fright at change." · 
It is absolutely vital for the established and credible universities in South Africa to become "national resources," Hunter said. Such universities, he said, will spearhead the drive for educational improvements in South Africa. 
Read Paige Smoron's column every third Wednesday in Accent 
page 6 The Observer Monday, October 7,1991 

()bserVer Ale PhoiD 

Sun, rain, snow, or sleet ... 
The golden statue of Mary watches lovingly over the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community no matter what the weather. 
By EMILY HAGE 
News Writer 

Differences must be acknowl­edged before they can be ap­preciated, said Percival Everett at a fireside chat Friday. 
A Notre Dame English pro­fessor and novelist, Everett ad­dressed certain current African-American issues. 
Asked what it's like to be a black man at Notre Dame, Ev­erett related that during his first week on campus he was asked where the football office is located and if he was a coach-"A what?" 
Everett said that African­Americans in this country are aliens. "We will always be aliens. We need each other. We don't belong." Whites don't have this problem, said Everett. "You never run out of white people." 
Frightened for black children, Everett said that it_ might be better for blacks not to be in such sitcoms as "The Cosby Show" rather than have them play white roles. 
ND professor Percival Everett talks on African-American issues 
A black family that does not confront racial difficulties is impossible in America, and children watching this unrealis­tic scenario may think that it is possible, he said. "What hap­pens when they get to adult­hood; to what do they aspire?" 
About black students at Notre Dame, Everett said, "I think they do feel isolated. This is America. I think they're going to feel isolated." Black students carry an extra burden; they feel a need to help the black community here in addition to studying, he said. 
Though he "worries less" about blacks at all-black col­leges, he claimed that students graduating from a predomi­nantly white college will be more prepared because they won't be surprised by the real world. However, he said, "It's kind of hard to have it hit you when you're 16, 17 years old." 
When asked if America is re­ally a "melting-pot," he re­sponded, "Nobody ever told me what a melting-pot should be ... It's certainly a pot. Whether or not the heat's been turned up enough for everything to be melted is another question." 
Everett said that people who say that they don't see any dif­ferences between black and white people are lying. "How can you not? What's wrong with seeing people as black or white..? ...We all have to admit that we're bigots." 
Professor Everett has seen the movie "Boyz N the Hood" three times, not because of the movie, but because of the audience. "There are lots of black people in South Bend! Lots of them!" 
Everett said that the people who see this film are "alive" be­cause it's an occasion to see themselves on the screen. The story almost doesn't matter. They are seeing themselves as the center of attention, and they don't know how to respond, said Everett. 
Everett said his greatest fear for his race is not illiteracy, but failure to apply their education to their own lives in order to become "politically empow­ered." 
Mbeki 
continued from page 1 
such a strength that (it) was 
obliged to move in a certain di­
rection." 
The pressure which forced 
the white minority government 
to free activist Nelson Mandela 
must continue to force the gov­
ernment to compromise its po­
sition in favor of the ANC, 
Mbeki said. 
Although the national and in­
ternational press claim that the 
South African government has 
moved on its own to take the 
initiative of instituting sweeping 
changes, the fact of the matter 
is that the ANC has forced 
these changes, according to 
Mbeki. 
That pressure is responsible 
for ending the state of emer­
gency, for legalizing political 
parties and other organiza­
tions, and for indemnifying ex­
iled prisoners, said Mbeki. 
Mbeki criticized the United 
States government for partially 
ending sanctions against South 
Africa, pointing out that the 
South African government has 
not yet met all of the conditions 
set by the U.S. 
Mbeki said that the ANC is pushing for a conference to convene this month to deter­mine what direction the country must go. Those at the conference, he said, must solve the problems of establishing an all-party congress, beginning the process of forming a constitution, and determining who should govern the country during the period of transition. 
One of the most important goals of the ANC is establishing the principle of 'one man, one vote' in the South African polit­ical structure. Mbeki said that the country will reach an im­portant political landmark if all political parties can be repre­sen~d in the government. 
Mbeki criticized corporations in South Africa for multiplying the effects of Apartheid. The ANC is looking for a greater democratization of decision­making within corporate man­agement, and for a greater dis-
see MBEKI I page 7 

pcoming Events 
LECTURES AT THE HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
TUESDAY. OCTOBER 8 
12:15-Appearance of four Soviet representatives from Moscow who are In the U.S. to meet with the Indiana-Soviet Trade Consortium (ISTC): ANATOLV DOLGOLAPTEV, Chairman of the Moscow Oblast Soviet and Chairman for the Board of Chairmen of Oblast Sovieta for Central Russia; ALEXEV VORONTSOV, Vice­chairman of the Moscow Oblast Executive Committee; ALEXANDER TCHUVAEV, Chief of the Moscow Oblast Soviet Advisory Board and PETER PROSTVAKOV, Director of the Institute for Information and Socio-Economic Research. 
"AN INSIDER'S VIEW OF THE AUGUST COUP AND ITS IMPACT ON INDIANA-SOVIET TRADE RELATIONS"-Hesburgh Ctr. Auditorium 
WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 9 
4:15-CONNOR CRUISE O'BRIEN, University of Dublin, Author of God Land: Reflections on Religion and Nationalism and The Siege: The Saga of Israel and Zionism 
Cosponsored with the Department of History, the Department of Government and International Studies, and the Program of Liberal Studies 
"RELIGION, NATIONALISM & DEMOCRACY"-Hesburgh Ctr. Auditorium 
FRIDAY. OCTOBER 11 
12:00-CHRIS BARRETT, NO '83, Director. Lynchburg Peace Education Center; and ANNE GIBBONS, Director, Catholic Campus Ministry, Lynchburg College 
"INTEGRATING LIFESTYLES AND CAREERS"-Greenfields Cafe (Room 107) 
***** 

3:30 -GEORGE A. LOPEZ, Kroc Institute Director of Undergraduate Studies; Associate Professor, Government and International Studies Department 
"JOBS/INTERNSHIPS IN PEACE AND JUSTICE WORK"-Room 103 
These events located in the Conference Building facing Notre Dame Avenue. 
Monday, October 7, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Cohen 
continued from page 1 
from the United States. 
Although only Oregon has lifted state sanctions against South Africa, the national gov­ernment is encouraging all states to re-examine the possi­bility of terminating sanctions, he added. 
Cohen stressed that the U.S. will not stop with lifting sanc­tions. To date, the government has taken the following actions to aid the economic develop­ment of South Africa: 
•It has freed American busi­nessmen to become involved in ventures that contribute to the "economic progress of all South Africans," said Cohen. 
•It has encouraged lnterna­
tiona! attention to the economic challenges facing South Africa. 
•It 
has promoted greater U.S. Investment in South Africa, with an emphasis on activity that will promote black en­trepreneurship. 

•It 
has emphasized three eco­nomic areas that will be key for success in the new South Africa: jobs, education and leadership development. 


The United States has been able to increase its involvement in the economic development due to South Africa's meeting the criteria necessary for sanc­tions to be lifted by the C-AAA. 
Increased international coop­eration, most notably from the Group of Seven Nations at the June economic summit in Lon­don, has also shown the U.S. that others have equal interest for "economic renewal in South Africa," he said. 
The U.S. has allocated $80 million this fiscal year for aid to South Africa. This year, the money will be targeted primar­ily at education and housing. 
The money will be distributed through a program designed to prepare black South Africans for leadership roles in the post­Apartheid society, he said. The program focuses on education, labor union training, human rights, black private enterprise, and community outreach and leadership development. 
With a strong emphasis on education, housing and health care, the program will feature vocational training as well in an attempt to "link job training with job creation," Cohen said. 
Present unemployment esti­mates are close to 40 percent, he said. Coupled with the lack of qualified skilled workers this figure shows the immediate need for education at all levels. 
In light of the magnitude of the housing needs in South Africa, the U.S. program will direct funds toward assisting homeowners and buyers, he said. Loans channeled through banks and corporations in the 
U.S. are just one option avail­able. 
While economic growth is a must, Cohen -stressed that na­tionalization would not be the best way for South Africa to build an economic structure. 
"No excuse can obscure the simple fact that a system which ignores economic realities and presumes to dictate what the people want rather than letting them choose through the mar­ketplace has not worked," he said. 
What the new South African government must do is "establish a polttlcal climate which encourages a dynamic economic climate," Cohen said. 
Cohen suggested that the South African government model this climate after the Roosevelt administration of the early 1930s, which "faced simi­lar economic distortions as those currently existing in South Africa." 
The key is combining positive government interaction with privatization. "Government­owned corporations generally are not profitable," he added. 
The end result the United States seeks in post-Apartheid South Africa is a non-racial democracy based on the "one man, one vote" principle and the idea of economic opportu­nity for all citizens, Cohen con­cluded. 

•
I 

continued from page 6 
trlbution of corporate owner­ship. "Apartheid within the corpo­rate world must end," he said. 
If a new democratic govern­ment Is established, Mbeki said, It will have to face the same enormous challenges as the white minority government, in­cluding housing the homeless and feeding the hungry. 
"If Indeed the ANC Is a gov­ernment In waiting ... those millions of people are going to come to the ANC," he said. "and that government will have to deliver." 
Mbekl blamed recent black­on-black violence In South Africa on third parties Inter­ested In fostering dlsaccord among blacks In order to stop the changes that are occurring. 
The major culprit, he said, is the police and armed forces in the country. "Every element in the South African security forces were involved in that vio­lence," he said, "whether by acts of omission or by acts of commission." 
Mbekl cited an incident In which police watched a group of 500 gather, arm themselves with guns and spears, and slaughter a community. The se­curity forces, he said, did not attempt to stop the fighting nor did they arrest a single person after the fighting was over. 
He said that the conflicts that led to violence were fermented and carried out by third parties intervening in the aiTairs of the disputing groups. "It was not black-on-black violence," said Mbekl. "It was not violence which erupted because there was a general process of change. It was violence because of people opposed to change." 
Mbeki said that the ANC has taken measures to address and eliminate the problem of the black-on-black violence that continues in South Africa. Var­ious diverse organization signed the National Peace Accord, he said, which is a binding, enforceable code of conduct which acts on the premise that everyone should be free to propagate their own political views. 
In addition, a standing committee on violence was formed and empowered to seize police or army power and con­duct Investigations of possible security violations, Mbeki said. 
"A basic fundamental reality still remains," said Mbeki. "that South Africa continues to be governed by a white minority. The heart of the struggle is about ending white minority rule." 
"The things we did to free Nelson Mandela from jail ... we have to do in order to encour­age South Africa to reach those positions." 



PLEA ERE 
LE THI 
ERVER! 
Thank You! 

THE UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER PRESENTS 
AN EVENING WITH 
JOHN BRADSHAW 
Author of HOMECOMING and THE SHAME TIIAT BINDS YOU 
Host ofthe PBS SERIES, JOHN BRADSHAW ON THE FAMILY and on HOMECOMING 
AT WASHINGTON HALL OCTOBER 29, 1991 7-9P.M. 
LIMITED SEATING TICKETS REQUIRED 

Tickets available (FREE) at LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE with ND/SMC 1D 
STUDENT TICKETS available beginning October 7, 1991 STAFF/FACULTY TICKETS available October 9, 1991 
One ticket per ID 

. Thll<hetver~SdTow Thabo Mbek1, leader of an ANC ~elegation currently meeting at Notre Dame, spoke Sunday about the Importance of maintaining the strug­gle to end white minority rule in South Africa. 
Fo r S L' n i P r N u r -. i n g S t u d L' n t -. 

A seminar to helj1 you prepare for personal and professional decisions. 
November 1 & 2, 1991 Mayo Medical Center • Rochester, Minnesota 
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS 
• Laughter: A Gift of Your Being to Light Up Dark Places • Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse • Enhancing Your Personal and Professional Image 
BREAKOUT SESSIONS 
• Financial Planning • Critical Care Nurse Internship Program • Preparing for Your Job Search • Collaborative Practice-What It Is And What It Isn't • State Boards: Are You Ready? • Healthcare in a Changing Environment • New Kid on the Block 
$10 registration fee covers sessions, instruction materials and food. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants. 
Deadline for registration is October 22, 1991 
Calll-800-545-0357 outside Rochester, or (507) 286-8579 for registration information and brochure.
ctYJ Nmsing Horizons is sponsored by 
Mayo Center for Nursing 
Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 
M''.llt' Ft•umf,llwu ~~ tUltl{(irmalir't' adwu nwf t'IJunl ''l'llltrtuuilllt'lfllfrthtr 111111 ''"'1''~'1/t'r.A Slllllkt• Frt'I'IIIMlllllittll. . . 


page 8 The Observer Monday, October 7, 1991 
United Way kicks off its annual drive 
By HEATHER TREMBLAY 
News Writer 
October marks the beginning of the annual United Way cam­paign to raise money for sev­eral community services. 
The United Way was started over 100 years ago to coordi­nate human services work and fundraising. It is now a major fundraiser for human care providers, and an estimated 50 percent of people in St. Joseph County will use an agency aflll­iated with it. 
Some of these agencies in­clude the YWCA, Big Broth­ers/Big Sisters and the Red Cross. 
The United Way is an inter­national agency, yet each agency is run independently. The money stays local, with each agency deciding what is top priority for its individual area. 
According to Father E. William Beauchamp, chairman of the board for the United Way in St. Joseph County, the financial goal for this year is $3.6 million. This goal is achieved through many differ­ent fundraisers throughout the community. 
The fundraisers include com­pany drives and opportunities for individual donations which 
Store 
continued from page 1 

council, who will examine the measure next month. 
The compromise faces oppo­sition from the members of the Northeast Neighborhood Asso­ciation, who are worried that their residential area could be­come infested with new com­mercial establishments, according to Art Quigley, president of the association. 
Quigley said that the settle­ment could lead to commercial spot-zoning in the residential neighborhoods of South Bend. "What right have they to turn you down for a spot change if they give me one?" he said. 
Nussbaum acknowledged that spot-zoning is a concern of the city, but that "there are in­stances that a zoning that is contrary to those parcels around it is appropriate, and I think this is appropriate." 
Quigley emphasized that the neighborhood has few com­plaints against Pandora's. However, they fear that the bookstore could .fail and a dif­ferent commercial establish­ment could be placed on the site, such as a bar or a restau­rant. 
According to Nussbaum, though, the rezoning of the 
Howard-St. Peter's site would be specifically for the purpose of the construction of a book­store. If Pandora's were to fail, he said, the new owner of the property could either build a new bookstore, or the land could revert back to 'A residen­tial.' 
If the new owner wished to build a bar or a restaurant, he would have to file a petition for the city to rezone the land for that purpose. 
Quigley, however, fears that in the future, the city might allow a petition for a general 'C commercial' petition to pass. "They could put a condition on it (the rezoning petition), but I don't know how well those con­ditions work." 
This dispute is the latest in a series of disagreements be­tween the Northeast Neighbor­hood and Pandora's over the relocation of the bookstore and the preservation of the neigh­borhood, said Quigley. 
Pandora's existed before the area was zoned 'A-residential,' so it has been permitted to re­main in the neighborhood un­der a grandfather clause, Nuss­baum said. The store cannot relocate within the neighbor­hood unless the city designates a new parcel a 'C commercial zone,' he said. 
Pandora's first attempted to relocate in Spring 1990, sub­mitting a petition for the rezon­ing of a piece of land across the street from its current location on the corner of Notre Dame Avenue and Howard Street. 
According to Nussbaum, that corner was formerly the site of a popular student bar called "The Library." 
The bookstore faced major opposition from the Northeast Neighborhood Association and the University of Notre Dame. Quigley had then said that he was opposed because of bad experiences with establish­ments on that corner in the past. He said that the neigh­borhood feared that the book­store could fail and other commercial establishments could purchase the land. 
Notre Dame stood behind the neighborhood, Quigley said, in a show of support for the large number of faculty and staff that live in the area. The University also offered to purchase the land in order to avoid the rezoning of the land, he added. 
As a result of the opposition and lack of support in the city council, Pandora's withdrew its petition in August 1990, accord­ing to Nussbaum. Early in 1991, they obtained a building permit for the same piece of property, this time with the intent to build a private library. 
The permit was revoked by the city shortly thereafter on the grounds that only a public or non-profit library can be built on commercially zoned land, according to Nussbaum. 
The Notre Dame-Howard Partnership, which owns the bookstore, filed suit against the city in June, stating that city zoning codes do not ban li­braries of any kind on land zoned A residential. Nussbaum, however, said that the true in­tent of the ordinance was only to cover non-profit libraries, as opposed to private libraries. 
Quigley points out that their disputes with the owners is not a personal matter, but an issue of principle. "We're not mad at the people," he said. "We are against spot zoning." 
Marjorie Kinsey, a resident, agreed. "We like Pandora's. We feel that it is important to keep the bookstore open." However, she said, "we're disappointed with what happened. There is nothing the neighborhood can do." 
"Twenty-five years from now," Quigley added, "I won't be around. It's not going to bother me, but it's going to bother my children and your children who come to Notre Dame and find that this is a commercial zone." 
The University of Notre Dame took no formal stand on the current settlement, accord­ing to James Roemer, Director of Community Relations. 
Mandy Arnold, manager of Pandora's Books, would not comment on the tentative set­tlement. 
are offered by either one-timer--------------------------------------------------....., 
givers or those with sizeable donations. Raising the money requires what Beauchamp calls "giving at all levels," which is the basis of the United Way campaign. 
Julie Bradley, United Way student campaign chairperson, gives the projected financial goal on campus at $5,000. This is a 3 percent increase over the past couple of years. The stu­dent campaign has not met its goals in the past, mainly be­cause the students "aren't aware the drive is going on," said Bradley. 
Bradley is confident that the student campaign will meet, and hopefully exceed, its goal for this year. It will be possible, she said, if they receive seventy-five cents to a dollar per on-campus undergraduate student. 
Students will have plenty of opportunities to donate. Some fundraisers include dorm col­lections from Oct. 8-10, a Bowl­a-Thon on Oct. 10 at Beacon Bowl, and gathering money in collection boxes in the dining halls. 
Beauchamp and Bradley said they are very positive about the outcome of this campaign and of the awareness the students and South Bend community have of the United Way. 
"Fundraising is the opportu­nity to do the work of the United Way," said Beauchamp, and they will continue working toward "efficient use of the do­nated dollar." 
SOCIAL SECURITY? MANY PEOPLE ONLY KNOW HALF THE STORY. 
Get the whole story from the free booklet,"Social Security, How it works for you." Call: 1-800-937-2000 
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES 
Invite The UNIVERSITY OF N01RE DAME students to attend a presentation on career opportunities 
Wednesday, October 9, 1991 7:00p.m. Upper Lounge of the University Club 
Featuring Tom Helfrich, ND '72 
Senior Vice President, Corporate Human Resources 
Recent Notre Dame Alumni and Interns will also be available to talk about their experiences at The Travelers. 
All majors encouraged to attend. 
Refreshments will be served. 
FALL INTERVIEW DATES: 
ACCENT (Information Systems Management) ACTUARIAL TTMP 
(Telecommunications) 
FMDP (Financial Management) MCEBO ASSOCIATES 
(Managed Care and Employee Benefits) 
TheTravelersJ 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
November 12-13, 1991 
November 12, 1991 November 12, 1991 November 12, 1991 November 12, 1991 
........ 


.· Business 
Monday, October 7, 1991 page9 
GM, workers agree to talks 

DAYTON, Ohio (AP) -Strik­ing General Motors Corp. workers are encouraged that the company and their union agreed to another round of talks Sunday aimed at ending a two-day-old walkout. 
Talks resumed about 10 a.m. Sunday while pickets remained up at the Delco Chassis Division plants. Four pickets have been stationed at each of the plants' 14 entrances. No problems have been reported by either side. 
Some progress was reported in talks Saturday, although nei­ther the company nor striking Local 696 of the United Auto Workers would be ,more spe­cific. 
About 3,300 workers at two brake-making plants went on strike Friday morning when several local issues were unre­solved. The union local's last strike lasted five days in 1977. 
"The positive thing about it is if they keep talking," said Jim Thorpe, a GM work.er for 16 years. "If they knock it ofT, then we'll worry." 
The strike could begin affect­ing other GM plants if it lasts much longer. Company spokeswoman Sheila Main has estimated the strike would be felt at other GM plants in two to three working days. 
The two plants supply other GM plants with brakes, brake systems, bearings and suspen­sions. 
The union claims the com­pany hasn't improved opera­tions or equipment to permit a mandated increase in number of parts produced at the plants. The union also is concerned about work transferred away from the plant. 
Union members said they're afraid of losing their jobs to outside contractors. 
"Anytime you're worried about losing jobs, it's worth braving anything. And that's what it's all about, jobs," said 15-year machinist Otto Koch. 
The company declines to dis­cuss the issued involved. 
Union local President Joe Hasenjager said negotiators made some progress during an ali-day session Saturday,· and agreed to meet again. Ms. Main declined comment. 
"I can only assume progress is being made," she said. 
The union ratified a three­year contract last year, but is at odds with the company over how the provisions apply. The union imposed the Friday deadline for resolving the dif­ferences. 

Gulf War helps charter airline remain aloft 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) American Trans Air is sailing more smoothly these days thanks to the military business it captured during the Gulf War buildup a year ago, the founder of the charter airline say. 
The Indianapolis-based car­rier ferried more military per­sonnel and made more round trips to the Persian Gulf than any other American passenger airline. American Trans Air made 494 trips to Saudi Arabia from August 1990 to May 1991, airline and Air Force officials said. 
The charter line logged nearly 22 percent of all the flights by 
U.S. passenger carriers moving soldiers to Saudi Arabia, said Staff Sgt. Mark E. Johnson of the Military Airlift Command at Clark Air Force Base in Illinois. 
Pan American was No.2 at 15 percent, or 335 of the total 2,288 trips by civilian airliners pressed into military service during the war, Johnson said. 
"The military has been a big, big help to us," said J. George Mikelsons, founder and chair­man of American Trans Air. 
The airline earned $240,000 for each of its military flights, or roughly 11 cents per mile, per passenger. Its 12 huge L­1011 wide-bodied jumbo jets, which normally can carry 380 civilian passengers, could han­dle 250 soldiers with 400 pounds of equipment each. 
"Without the offset of the military flights, we would be in much, much worse financial shape if we had lost the civilian business as a result of the war in the Gulf, the recession and the high fuel prices," Mikelsons said. 



·,
Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, October 7, 1991 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-ln.Chlef Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ......•••..••••..•••••.Monica Yant Advertising Manager ....• .Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor •••..•••••.••••••.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .••••... Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ...•••.•....•.. David Dieteman Production Manager ••.•...•.••.Jay Colucci Accent Edltor ..•••••••••••••••••.John OBrien Systems Manager ..••.•......•••.Mark Sloan Photo Editor ••....•••..Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ....••••.••••••••••••Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor •••••..••••.Emily Willett Controller••••••.....••....••••Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Condoms contradict NO's Catholic nature 
Dear Editor: 
Rich Szabo's Inside column of Sept. 30 represents the immature and destructive thinking that plagues some members of the student body. His assertion that the University should provide condoms is poorly argued, and it is obvious that he has not realized that the most important aspect of this school is its Catholic character. 
The immature thinking appears in the understanding that if sex is going to happen at NO, the University "has a responsibility to protect students from the dangers... " of sex by providing condoms. This line of reasoning, that rules should he annulled if they are broken, extends to infmity. How should the University respond to those who break parietals, or to homosexuals, or to, God forbid a student requesting an abortion? Must all rules and morals be dropped so that everyone has "freedom of choice?" 
The most disheartening pas­sage of Mr. Szabo's column opens with "religious and moral beliefs aside .... " How can Notre Dame maintain its integrity and ever put religious and moral beliefs aside? Notre Dame is a special place not simply because of its fine academic tradition, but also because it is Catholic. 
In a society increasingly hostile to standards and values, it reassuring to attend a school that stands for and teaches, more than business, science, and the liberal arts. While some non-Catholics might feel that Notre Dame imposes its values and morals upon you, keep in mind that you made the choice to attend a Catholic school and please do not ask the University to abandon its Catholic mission, and betray the people who founded. it. 
Vincent C. Fazio Pangborn Hall 
Oct.1, 1991 


DOONESBURY 
No sex means no condoms needed 
Dear Editor: 
I know this is going to be only one of many letters written in response to Monday's inside column (The Observer, Sept. 30), but I've got a slightly dif­ferent gripe (I think). 
The first thing I thought when I read the headline is "What is this kid thinking?" Why even write an article like this? It's like the majority of Inside Columns and Viewpoint articles beating a dead horse. The guy's got to know that the administration is never going to distribute condoms in the infirmary, and shouldn't have to (a little personal opinion). 
First of all, one of the most important reasons that condoms are distributed is to provide people who wouldn't normally buy or be able to af­ford to buy condoms with the protection that they, as humans, need. I don't think that there are too many people on this campus who really need this service. 
Let's face it, the main reason that condoms and sex on this campus is such a popular topic in print is because it isn't in reality. If the infirmary were to provide condoms, their supply would go stale before they were used. 
In addition, that "raging hor­mone" argument just doesn't wash. I guess the Church had just better cancel that love thy neighbor thing because people are going to hate other people anyway -NOT. But, I digress. 
Obviously, it was a half an hour before the column was due and for lack of any good ideas, the Sports Copy Editor decided to write an article about Notre Dame and condoms (gosh, I join the ranks of Paige Smoron in using that word in print -wait a second... condom, condom, condom -now I've used it more than Paige (in print that is)). 
Now I don't want to be too hard on Observer writers, my friends and I have gotten plenty of good laughs out of almost every issue, and I don't think I could come up with interesting topics every week, but still, condoms (again!) from the in­firmary? Let's pull our heads out of the sand. 
John Stoj Off-campus Sept. 30, 1991 

Du Lac quashes creative artists 
Dear Editor: 
In the September 24 issue of the South Bend Tribune our room was among a few to be featured in a profile of Notre Dame dorm room decor. The Tribune photographer took many pictures of what he de­scribed as the "creatively" hung tapestries on our ceiling. One of those pictures was printed . 
Apparently, not everyone is as easily fooled as that photogra­pher. The keen and watchful eyes of Administrative Notre Dame saw through the guise of student creativity to the reality of the situation: a blatant and unprecedented violation of du Lac. 
18 A6AIN? THAT'5 JU5T WI?ICI<OUS,BOOPSI/3/ I CAN'TIMA61N8 THAT/ 
\ 

Shattering our moment of in­nocent glory they tore our dreams to shreds-by insisting on the tearing down of our tapestries. Yes, we realize this may sound cruel, and it was. However, we understand. 
We understand that not only have we caused public humiliation for the administration by representing the deviant side of a dignified student body, but we have also created hours of work for the innocent resident advisors, who must go from room to room seeking out our fellow violators and disrupting the unique ambience others worked to create. 
The guilt we feel caused by the unknown breaking of du lac haunts us. We fear the return of tainted and yes, perhaps even sinful creative inspirations. 
Finally, we would like to thank the administration for protecting us from the burning flames that even now yearn to ignite above our sleeping heads. Just another shining example of the University 's uncanny ability to protect our health, both physical and moral. 
Molly Crowe Kirsten Kearse Walsh Hall Oct. 1, 1991 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Minds are like parachutes. They only function when they are open.' 
T. Dewar 

Don 't mope about it, submit it: Quotes, P.O. Box Q ND,IN 46556 
Accent 
Monday, October 7, 1991 page 11 
Star Wars 
Spectacular laser light show to dazzle Stepan audience 
By KYLE KUSEK on around the viewer, the Accent Writer show's intensity is multiplied ten-fold from the normal 
A whirlwind sensation of high-tech laser projection movie theater presentation. and intense sound is coming to campus tonight. If the prospect of being 
The Student Union Board, in collaboration with the bombarded with so many University of Notre Dame, is presenting the laser light visual images is somewhat rock concert system SATUHN V tonight at the Stepan daunting, take comfort in the Center at 7:30p.m. familiarity of the musical 
-
The show brings with it the latest in laser and selections. sound technology, using ACH Laser Projectors and Coherent Laser Tubes along with a Panasonic/RAMSA Tami Posnanski, account 10,000 watt ~Dolby sound" concert system featuring executive for SUB, explained 30 speaker cabinets. that "the show is geared 
Joe Huston, music commissioner for SUB, was in toward college campuses and charge of delivering the show to campus. "SATURN V the diversity of musical tastes is a new thing to Notre Dame. It's the frrst laser light you find there. We decided show ever on campus, and so I hope it goes over well. against showing just a Pink It should be a lot of fun to watch," he said. Floyd show or just a U2 show in favor of a presentation that The laser light part of the show is composed of two would have a more universal 
at an economical price. "Most other SATURN V tourseparate types of laser projectors that work in appeal across campus." 
stops are charging ten to thirteen dollars for tickets.
conjunction. A krypton laser is responsible for the As advertised, the show features everything from 
We brought the show here to campus at a
full-color, high-resolution images projected on an lm-classic rock to progressive-postmodern stufT. U2, Pink substantially lower price--$3 for students and $6 formense 500 square-foot screen, while an argon laser Floyd, The Cure, Def Lllppard, Led Zeppelin, Yes, non-students," said Huston. Tickets are available at
shoots concentrated beams -------------------INXS, The Grateful Dead, of light across the room over '(Th and R.E.M. are the groups the LaFortune Information Desk or at the door. 
the audience. e artists featured are) not just listed. The laser show is Notre Dame's first. Jen Mee, 
commissioner of campus entertainment for SUB,
These argon laser beams the OneS listed On the Huston was quick to explained her initial thoughts on the show. "When the are bounced around the advertisements. Those are some of point out that the artists in idea of bringing the laser show here was first brought 
room by crystal mirrors the show are "not just the positioned throughout the the marquee names, but SATURN ones listed on the adver-up, I really wasn't too enthusiastic about the idea. 
"Everyone I spoke to who had seen one had raveroom. The web of light that V haS many more quality grOUpS.' tisements. Those are some reviews, though, and so I'm looking forward to seeing
results lends a three-of the marquee names, but dimensional feel to the show, -Joe Huston SATURN v has many more it as much as anyone here on campus." 
"The show is a really casual thing," added Tam I 
known as the "Star Wars quality groups." 
Posnanski. "People coming might want to bring
EfTect." Regardless of which 
pillows and blankets so they can lay back and watchThe electric screen used in the show Is a first in the group Is playing, the audio effect promises to be the show go on all around them." 
touring laser concert. Its composition is one that can incredible. "The sound was totally awesome," gushed be raised at any moment, enabling the laserist to Ann Dyer, an extremely satisfied concert chairperson 
SATURN V promises to give the viewer a one-of-a­shoot full-color beams and tunnels over the audience. from Seton Hall University. 
kind Monday night experience of kaleidoscopic lights Custom graphics, mirror balls, and fog jets serve to All of these funky lights and groovy tunes are and powerful music. 
enhance the visual presentation. With so much going available to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community 
Trick shot expert will cue Notre Dame in 
By TONY POPANZ market for his expertise. strides to improve his Accent Writer It seems that from a very ripe age talents. Gerni definitely had an affinity, as well Gerni is as Paul Gerni can be said to be a master as talent, for the game. His father played fascinating a per­
magician at the pool table, performing a crucial role in his development from a sonality as a pool seemingly impossible tricks with a pool young novice to a world-renowned talent. He not only cue that doubles as his wand. professional. has a vivid memory This can be no further from the truth, ~He told me that it was important for for tricks and shots, according to Gerni, for there's no trick to me to have my priorities in the right but also for peoples' It-it's a matter of skill. places, and then he told me that he names and faces. He Sponsored as a coordinated effort believed that, with that in mind, I could retains details like between the Gorch Game Room and the be the very best at whatever I chose to scores and sport Student Activities Board, Gerni will hold do," recalled Gerni, "I think that vote of teams, players and a 1 p.m. workshop tonight in the Gorch confidence was my first lesson on their. tendencies, Game Hoom and a 7 p.m. performance winning, at anything, and made me even highlights, and more. in Theodore's, on the second floor of more determined to do well." His wife, Mary, LaFortune. He played and won his first avows she will only 
Gernl has gotten the art of trick­tournament at the Logansport YMCA at play Trivial Pursuit shooting down to a science. He has the age of seven, beating some high with him if they can proven himself trick shot champion of schoolers along the way. He still has the be on the same team. the world in pocket billiards 17 times in YMCA patch he won that year. She said she thinks a row since 1974. He currently has 500 "It means more to me than the other his memory and shol<> In his repertoire, over 150 which trophies and awards that followed years recall are seldom 
he created himself. later. That's the one that has the matched. He Is appropriately dubbed "The meaning," said Gerni. Gerni is a people 
Ambassador of Pool." This is no small At the age of 15, he played in an person. Although Gerni plays in six to trade. His performance at Theodore's wonder, since Gerni's talents have taken exhibition tour in Chicago. During this eight World Class Championships each will last approximately one hour, and 
him to all four corners of the globe. time, he collaborated with and played year, he particularly enjoys exhibiting will include 30-40 trick shots. lie has been recognized on many TV such legendary pool greats as Willie his skills on the college circuit. College According to A.J. Steger, manager of shows Including the Merv Griffin Show, Mosconi, Jimmy Caras, Luther Lassiter, audiences are his favorite, he said, and the· Gorch Game Room, "I saw him 
The Dinah Shore Show, Gunsmoke, and Joe Balsis. he uses a combination of humor and perform three years ago, and he puts on an exemplary show whether you are a
Kojak, Columbo, That's Incredible, The He admits to being strongly influenced playing skills to keep his audiences Bionic Woman, and many others. by their styles as a willing and earnest hooked and entertained. pool fan or a frrst-time spectator." Also, a variety of international student of the game. At the age of 16, The workshop in the Gorch Game Admission is free. All are invited and ­periodicals publish his prize-winning Gerni acquired the title of Indiana 8-Ball Room will be the perfect opportunity for encouraged to attend, but seating is 
available on a first come first served
shots. Ills trick-shooting exhibitions are Champion. From this moment onward, the novice as well as the well-seasoned 
known worldwide, and there is a great he has continued to make significant player to pick up some tricks of Gerni's basis. 


Accent 
page 12 Monday, October 7, 1991 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Some memories never die. One stands out for Ted
, Stumpf when he was a fresh­man standing in line for food at the Huddle with a friend. 
' 
~ There were two girls behind them. They were examining
,I 
their tickets to go shopping in Chicago, and Stumpf noticed ~ their tickets were a different 
color than his. Stumpf, not knowing he was 
' ~ 
treading in insulting territory, asked them if they went to 
' 
Saint Mary's. One of the girls~ burst, "You f--, I can't be­lieve you!" before they both
I walked away. 
Stumpf was appalled by theI animosity that existed I between Saint Marv's and 
I -Notre Dame freshmen and I wondered, "Who's 
I passing on the 
to Saint Mary's. myths?" Maggie Showing popular Belin shared his movies at Carroll concern and Auditorium on week­together they ends was a common formed the Notre suggestion among Dame/Saint Mary's Relations Committee Relations Committee members to attract one and a half years students to Saint ago to remedy the Mary's. Since the no­situation. parties policy isn't in Maureen Lowry, danger of being lifted student body anytime soon, there president, said the are other ways Notre Committee "helps Dame can take the situation a lot" advantage of Saint by its very Mary's. existence. Stumpf would like All of the current to see co-ex's offered Relations Committee for lunch as well as members agree that for dinner. "Why are the common they so hard to get?" stereotypes are a he asked, and major source of suggested that conflict. Freshmen students be able to in the past have eat on either campus been introduced to at will. the other school Joint-sponsored through negative activities and clubs stereotypes. are also ways to This year, the meet students from survival leaders the other campus. didn't propagate the Lowry said that stereotypes and "...activities night panty raid during has been a success," Orientation Week. TheObserver!MargueriteSchropp and that by 
Thrfe stereotypes Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students huddle during a game of co-ed flag football 
su ace soon enough

and the three head Relations Committee members have differing opinions as to what kind of an impact they have. 
Brigid Brooks said, "People really do believe them. There are so many, most of them are 
negative, and women start to believe them." Like many other Notre Dame men, Ed Palmisano doesn't take them as seriously. "There are stereotypes for every dorm at (Notre Dame). It's done in fun. If people aren't getting rip-roaring mad, why change?" 
The Relations Committee formulated a survey that will hopefully shed some light on where the stereotypes are coming from. It will be 
distributed this semester and used to "work on everyone's attitude that we're all part of the same community," according to Heather Jackson. 
Two annual events, the Freshman Picnic and the Chicago shopping trip, have been successful to promote meetings and dispel misconceptions about the other school's students. 
"It all comes back to people being misinformed of what they stand for," Jackson elaborated. "On an individual level, (the relations are) pretty good. Every Notre Dame woman I've met doesn't fit the 
-
stereotype." 

Students who have traveled abroad may have stories of 

a 
er1n• es 

Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's Relations Committee seeks to dissolve myths 

stereotypes that stretch across the ocean. At least for a little while. 
'Wh · th 
en In e 

company of Saint 
Mary's women the
b d 

men a mouth the 
Notre Dame women. 
Then they do the OppOSite When 
they're with Notre
Dame women.' -Ed Palmisano 
Stumpf said that Belin went to London on a summer pro­gram one year; of the four girls, three were from Notre Dame. "For the first week, they didn't even talk to each other. They ended up being the best of friends." Later they recalled that first week and laughed about how senseless it was to judge each other based on stereotypes. 
Palmisano is sure the men contribute to fueling hostile feelings by playing the women against each other. He de­scribed a situation he is a common witness to where "when in the company of Saint Mary's women, the men bad­mouth the Notre Dame women. Then they do the opposite when they're with Notre Dame women." 
However, Daina Galinanes, a 
· 

Notre Dame sophomore, said ing exchanges between Notre she thinks "they (Saint Mary's) Dame and Saint Mary's are use our name too much. I " ... not immediately apparent don't see why we have to be to me. If there was something (Notre Dame/Saint Mary's)." that appealed to me I'd know 
Chris Infante, senior, said about it." "there's a lot of unnecessary Publicity is one of the prob-tension. The girls here don't lems that is contributing to the want to admit they're in struggle for equality. Brian competition with the girls at Murphy, freshman, said the Saint Mary's. It all started "culmination of activities be-
when Notre Dame went co-tween the two schools is a ed." plus. I think it's important for The Notre Dame/Saint us to be involved more...I wish 
Mary's relations situation has we could be more aware of not been a secret outside the stuff over there." dorms or even off the There are many Saint 
campuses. Interest has Mary's activities and events stretched from the pages of that go unpublicized at Notre the Saint Mary's Courier in "A Dame. Something as simple as Marriage Gone Sour" to a two-posting signs for Saint Mary's night news segment with plays doesn't happen. Diane Daniels on Channel 28. However, unless stringent 
Susan Zeilinski, former policies are changed about member of the Relations Saint Mary's social life on the Committee, said that progress weekends, students are will come in a series of "short limited to cultural arts for steps, nothing gigantic," with entertainment. • cooperation and help from both schools. The Relations Committee meetings are 'They (Saint Mary's) always open to anyone who 
use our name too 
wants to come with ideas for 
much. I don't see
future steps. Not everyone is in favor of why we have to be mending the bond, though. 
(Notre Dame/Saint 
Brendan Regan, who wrote the analogous football Mary's).' team/cheerleader Inside 
-Daina Galinanes 
Column (Sept. 20), is not Peggy Abood said Saintconvinced that the Mary's "get(s) pointed at be­
relationship is worth sal­cause we go over there for
vaging. The benefits from hav­parties." The shuttles traveling between campuses on weekends contain a disproportionate influx of students from Saint Mary's to Notre Dame. Since Notre Dame went co-ed, Renfree said, "(Notre Dame) guys are no longer going across the street, they're staying on cam­pus." 
Palmisano said some of the bad relations can be attributed to the red tape men have to go through at Saint Mary's. Renfree reinforced his point, "Not a lot of people from (Notre Dame) go to (Saint Mary's), partly because it's hard to get into the buildings. It's difficult for (Notre Dame) people to hang out at (Saint Mary's)." This restriction reduc~s chances of meeting under non-alcoholic conditions and discourages 
men from traveling 
" ... emphasizing common interests, (we) realize the differences aren't as great as they seem." Since Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are different types of institutions that attract different types of students, Palmisano has an idea to edu­cate students instead of taking the grapevine's word for it. Appointing a certain week when students can sit in on classes at the other school would help open the lines of communication. "Saint Mary's is much more discussion-oriented. Most (students) are pre-med at (Notre Dame), and there's a different kind of person in engineering than in education," Palmisano reflected. Understanding differences, proving independence, and fair use of the other school's facilities are not going to be settled in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. "While 'Letters to the Editor' can be beneficial, it becomes very redundant and old (with) people arguing back and forth," Stumpf commented. 
"Accentuate the positive," said Jackson. Neither school is academically inferior. The ad­vantages of joint-dependent schools are not rights, but privileges based on location and a long tradition of cooper­ation. 
Monday, October 7, 1991 The Observer 
page 13 

Oilers pound the Broncos 42-14; Sanders saves Lions 
At Houston, the Oilers turned on the final play of the first half The Lions have learned that Detroit is in first place in the was sidelined with a bruised
their anxiety to get back in ac­and was Involved in 11 tackles. lesson and they taught it to the NFC Central for the first time shoulder. tion Into a scoring frenzy of big Ernest Givins had five catches Vikings, who had contained since 1983. Cowboys 20, Packers 17plays on offense and defense. for 151 yards and Warren Moon 
Sanders before the fourth The last time the Cowboys
Cornerback Cris Dishman re­threw for two TDs. Houston quarter. But the All-Pro running "They were back on their were 4-2 was 1986. Lots of bad 
turned a fumble by Steve Sewell also held Gaston Green, the back keyed a 21-point heels," quarterback Rodney things have happened to 19 yards for a touchdown and AFC's leading rusher, to 35 comeback and scored the win­Peete said. "Once Barry gets America's Team since. set up another score with a 43-yards and sacked John Elway ning TD from 15 yards with 36 going, you know they can't 
But out of those stale yearsyard interception return. Safety five times. 

seconds to go. Sanders had 70 come at you and you could see have come heroes, most notablyBubba McDowell recovered a Lions 24, Vikings 20 of his 116 yards rushing in the they didn't know what to ex­Troy Aikman, Emmitt Smith,blocked punt in the end zone, When in doubt and in trouble, final eight minutes and caught pect." Jay Novacek and Ray Horton onhad a sack, blocked a field goal call on Barry Sanders. nine passes for 76 yards. Minnesota's Herschel Walker Sunday.
•f • d 

The Observer accepts clasaltleda every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary-a office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day claaaHieda ill 3p.m. All claa.Wiedl
CIaSSI Ie S 
I I
must be prepaid. The charge ill 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. -~--~F::O~R~:R~E::N:T~--l---H-A_V_E_2-ST_U_D_T-IX_T_O_A_LL_H_OME----HE_L_P_I________________~N=~::2~U:SC::GA~'~s.~Th:is:is~~==::::~C~L=U:B::2:3~~==--­N0TICES . . GAMES, WILL TRADE FOR TENN. TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED SERIOUS! Call Steve x2366 & 
L-:-:=~~-:-:-:-~------1 BED 'N BREAKFAST RI::GI~ 1HY TIX, OR WILL SELL. CALL Please call Sam Santo at VIC'S SUBS USED BOOKS CHI::At'llllllllll 219-291·7153 JASON,287-8818. (201)217-0030 (home) or NEED 2 TENN GAs-CALL DOC AT are now open from 25% off list price I FOR SALE (201) 992-8700 (work). 2723001 11 am to 3 am 
10-5:30 everyday I HAVE PITI GAS FOR Pandora's Books corner of ND SALE-Call Man x2318. '68 ALUM DESPERATELY NEED PITI GA'S FOR POOR The Only Alternative ave & Howard vAl HULICS vs. CONVICTS Ill WANTS 2 GA'S TO RELATIVES. CALL KEVIN 1589 Live Music and Specials 
T-Shirts. Sweatshirts, closeout. T-I NEED TIX FOR PITI AND TENN OR USC (7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) TYPING AVAILABLE Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone TENN CALL JOANNE 2184 OR 3783 I NEED USC GAS Phone: 234-4015 287-4082 Game Day Promotions 291-6394. CALL PHIL X2096 
CALL KEVIN@ 289-6541 DESPERATELY SEEKING PITI SENIORS: Are you sick of dining Desktop publishing. Able to meet all SEGA GENESIS & GAMES BST AND USC GA'S FOR '68 ALUM I NEED 1 PITI TICKET! hall food and boring conversations? typing/typesening neE>Js. 20 years OFR X4070 I NEED NEED NEED NEED LIZ -3783 OR 2184 Please call x1963 Then sign up lor Senior Rap Up. experience; reasom~ole rates. Call WANT SEX PITI TIX SEX student OR ga Guarant~ stimulating Diana 2n-5259._______, Bike 4 sale; 232-3980 PITI PITI PITI TIX WILL BUY USC AND TENNESSEE conversations and delicious 
CALL ERIK AT X2090 GA's FOR $100 A TICKET 2773097 -AIR FORCE GA's N~edll homecooked mealsI Sign up at the nckets (At least 2) Please Caii­esc by Friday, Oct. 11.
I LOST/FOUND I 
Give me your PITI Student Tic and In~ 2USC tix Catheeln @x 2822 FOUND: GRAY WALU: I IN ND FOOTBALL TICKETS you will know the meaning of life (or Tom #3109 WVFI640am LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. at least get some money) Chris PRESENTS CALL STELIUS AT 277-8827 TO x3414 I NEED USC,TENN,PITI.& NAVY PERSONAL THE CONNELLS IDENTIFY. N~ 5 GAs lor Tenn,will pay GA TIXS.272-6306 with special guest 
cash,277-5312 usc usc usc usc usc usc I am the Lizard King and I can do 7 Simons LOST OR STOLEN usc usc usc usc usc ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S anything. Where: Theodore's 
LICENSE PLATE NEED 2 USC GAs Vince Needs two GA's to see TO ANY HOME GAME$ VVhen:Thursday,Oct. 10 Illinois plate reading call234-7740 THE TROJANS CALL COLLECT $$$$ 9:00pm "D TROll" missing since Call x3414 anytime 812-477-2627 N~ GA's to all home games. (doors open at 8:30) 
Thurs. 19 Sept.; came off PITI TIX PITI TIX PITI TIX usc usc usc usc usc usc have extra Purdue tix. tickets on sale at Lafortune somewhere between Kaplan Alum needs 2 GA's lor Pin. Will pay usc usc usc usc usc usc NEED 2 PITI GA'S Call Tom x1563 Info desk lor $5.at door for$6. Educational Center (next to Turtle $$$. Call at work CALL JOANNE X4899 Creek) and rhe D-21ot. I realize it's (312) 701-6204 or at home TIX: I NEED THEMil Happy birthday Joe Roberts. THE CONNELLS cute, but it will cost a bundle to (708) 616-7818 anytime. I need 2 GA's and 2 stud lor Need 2TN GAs TICKET GIVE AWAY II replace so PLEASE return II you PITI TIX PITI TIX PITI TIX Navy-big ND fans willing to pay-call Zeke 1788 Monica Eigelberger is a ho. Win one pair of tickets to see The have it and no questions will be Dave #1436. Connells, Thursday night, Oct. 10 asked II II you have the plate or NEED 1 OR 2 PITI GA'S. PLEASE PITI GA'S FOR SALE FAST EASY INCOMEI at Theodore's. info, call 4911. Generous reward CALL JILL 272-1967. NEED GAs FOR PITI AND USC. CALL 1781; EARN 100'S WEEKLY STUFFING HOW? Listen to WVFI640am offered. MONEY NO OBJECT. Call Ron MAKE OFFER ENVELOPES. SEND SELF­Sunday thru Thursday. 
NEED 1 GA FOR PITISBURGH x2157 ADDRESSED STAMPED Its just that simple. LOSTIIIIIII JOE X1360 NEED 4 PITI GA'S AND 2 NAVY ENVELOPE TO: 
Help, I need 2 Tenn GAs for GA'S ...CALL 288-7458 AND ASK FAST INCOME hey nil at Steppan fields or tennis NEEDED: 4 PITI GAs Tenn. lor my good looking, FOR MATI OR ROB P.O. BOX 641517 courts on Sunday, Sept. 29, Call Heather at 3427. available, uncle, who has CHICAGO,IL 60664-1517 INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. gold Seiko watch and 3 rings that never seen a game at N[).......{;all PLEASE Ill NEED 2 NAVY GAS Good rates. Save Money. Call me have lots ol sentimental value. NEED 2 PITI GA'S Laura at 277-9185, please! HE IDI-277-6806 URGENT! Rich Alumnus needs 2 lor a quote 9:30-6:00, II found, please call x2867 CALL ROB @ 3054 PITI TIX Kathleen @ x3726 289-1993. Office near campus. 
$$$$REWARD$$$$$ Will trade/deal 2 Pin GA's Relative have never seen x4132. 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR lor 2 Tenn GA'SIStu tix. CONDOMS IN ACTION I LEARN TO SKVDIVEI Classes LOSTIIIII A blue Notre Dame jacket TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL Mike 288-7458 NEED 3 USC GA'S to have GETAWAY WEEKEND every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am. with teal and white stripes on the 601-249-3417 NIGHTS. their DREAMS COME TRUE KOONTZ HOUSE Eastem time. Train and jump the sleeve. Yeah, the kind you can Call MIKE ar X2360 BED 'N BREAKFAST same day. Modern equipment and BUY at the bookstore! II whoever i need 2 GAs lor PITI for my aunt, EXCHANGE: I HAVE 2 GA'S FOR 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE training programs. licensed took this jacket from South Dining who's a nun, and her friend, another PITI AND WILL EXCHANGE NEED 3 PITI GA's lor Mom, Dad DAME instructors. FFI call Skydive Hall on Tuesday, Oct. 1 could call nun. Would you deny a nun her THEM FOR 2 TENN GA'S. and linle sister's first game EVER I 586-7090 Hastings (616) 948-2665. X4000. and offer to return it, it fun? Greg x1795 CALL MARIA AT 284-5132 Call John x3325 would be greatly appreciated. I am the Lizard Child, and I've got "ATIN: NV AND NJ" 
i need up to 5 STUD tix lor USC. MY UTILE BROTHER AND Please Help! I need Pin GA's lor an Oedipus complex that'll Ll Bus wNCR has seats avail. We'll Lost: blue ND sweatshirt in pete x1791 FRIENDS WANT TO COME TO family. Call Jim@ 1493. drive you wild. also stop in NJ. Lv 10/19 rtn10/25 front of Cushing 1011. II found. THE ''NAVY'' GAME. NEED only $110. Reserve NOWI Joni please call x1007. HELPII I n~ PITI TIX lor my GA'S! Rich alums need 10 A.F. g.a.'s. Wiil EAR CANDY 3793 Janice 2639 
parents and some friends-if CALL MARIA AT 284-5132 pay $$$. Call Gus or Mike at (206) WVFI640am 
''LOST •• I don't get'em I'm dead II 624-7990 preSGnts The winners of Da First Ever WIDE, SILVER INDIAN Please call Lynne@ X2614 The Jericho Sesssions Scavenger Hunt are: BRACELET. LOST 9/10 I need 2 TN GAs.Will pay BIG$$. I desperately n~ 2 U.S.C student A 73 minute CD featuring 19 1st Pla~leveland Steamers FAMILY HEIRLOOM-PERSONALLY I need nx all games Call will at x3001. G.A's. Call Molli @3950. original songs from 19 campus 2nd Place-Warriors 0' The Well­PRICELESS. Jason x2030 bands. All procedes benefit the Built Chariot 
RETURN WILL ELATE THE Need 4 PITI GA's. Can you help NEEDED: 1 OR 2 PITI GA's South Bend Runaway Shelwnn 3rd Place-P-is Wrinkle OWNER! REWARD. THNX $$$$$ me out? X4419 PLEASE CALL JOHN at x1590. ON SALE NOWII Congratulations to all and thanks 
KATHY X34?9 416 LEWIS ThanksI AT very much to everyone who USC GA's needed. Call and leave I need a student ticket or GA lor LAFORTUNE !FORMATION DESK participated, especially those who message 277-9468. Pin-call Diane x2855 N~ LOTS of GA's lor Navy and DIDNT LEAVE EARLY.
WANTED 
I 

USC Whitney X4304 SMC -ND Summer Program~ in I NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS ON $$$$$ HELP! I need USC and Pin London (5120-6/19) and Rome 000 The Copy Shop 000 FALL BREAK. WILL PAY $$. BILL tickets ill Please call1321 I n~ a Navy GA desperately (6/14-7/13). Travel in Ireland, LaFortune Student Center x1721. NEED TENN. GA'S. Call Mike x4655 Scotland, England, France, WHEN YOU NEED COPIES 
CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS, Need 6 Ten. and 6 USC GA's Germany, Switzerland, and Italy. WE'RE OPEN FAST. PROFESSIONAL WORD OR 708-251-4502 AFTER 8 PM. Will pay big bucks. NEEDED: 1 TENN. GA Courses in bio, business, education, EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS ­PROCESSING $1.00 DOUBLE #3718 I HAVE PITI GAS TO history, photography, Italian, polysci, SPACED PAGE BEFORE 4-239-NEED GA's AND STUD. TIX TO TRADE OR $$-OR BOTH II and sociology. Meeting Oct. 7 at 2174 AFTER 5-277-6304/683-5290 ALL HOME GAMES. Have 2 Tenn GAs, want to trade lor Call Man at x2318. 6:15, Carroll hall. Teachers, Today onlyI 
X1578 2 Pin GAs. CAll Shannon P. 272-students, pizza, etc. THE GORCH GAMES ROOM FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS 8735. HELPI Alum n~s 2 USC GAs Info-Call Prof. A.R. Black 284-PRESENTS... Promote and Organize our Spring WONT YOU MAKE AN OLD Will pay $$-call Ivan @2037 4460 (office) PAULGERNI Break tours. All materials lumished. JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? MANY PITI AND NAVY TICKETS 272-3726 (home). WORLD TRICK SHOT CHAMPION Good Pay and Fun. Call Campus NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs. USC NEEDED. RICH PARENTS WILL NEED 5 Pin GA's Joe #2190 12 P.M. Fieldhouse Mall Marketing. 1-800-423-5264 ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789-PAY BIG MONEY! DOCTOR STAT, DOCTOR LOVE 1 P.M. Clinic-The Gorch 
0654 CALL ERIC or JEFF @x3575 In~: 2 Navy GAs HAS FOUND A NEW VICTIM; BEN 7 P.M. The Big Show 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS Tenn. GAs JEHRING HAS BEEN INFECTED in Theodore's to students or student organizations I need 1 NAVY GA call Greg 289-8917 BY A CALLIPVGIAN. FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE promting our Spring Break Allison x3715 NEED 2 PITI GA's or Packages. Good Pay and Fun. 2NAVYGA's Help me be a linle angell My WANTED: 3 TO 6 DEDICATED Call CMI. 1-800-423-5264. 2 USC stud tix lor sale Tom or Call Karin at 233-8803 godmother needs a USC GA. Be STUDENTS TO FILL THE TUES. Need Pin. tix (3) Monica 273-2202 
Brent 277-8790  my savior-X3484  8-10PM. FRI. 6-8PM OR FRI.  
Earn $2500 and Free Trips Selling  10PM-12AM SHIFT FOR  
Spring Break Packages to  NEED 2 PITI GA's  WANTED: 2 TENN TICKETS  N~ 4 General Admission Tickets  COUNSELINE.  
Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica,  Monica X2680  PLEASE CALL EMILY AT  to Pin and 2 tickets to USC. Call  IF YOU'RE INTERESTED IN  
FloridaI Best Trips and PricesI  277-4861  Marylou or Ray Cressy at 234­ PROVIDING THIS COMMUNITY  
Spring Break Travel1-800-638­ TICKETS Ill TICKETSIll  7553 (Day) or 234-3873 (Nite)  SERVICE, CALL 239-7336.  
8788.  
II you have ANY tickets lor any  i n~ 2 GA's lor USC and PITI.  Native offers Spanish classes  
home game. call me  Greg x1795.  Beatriz  
··pm nx··  Paul x3830  NEED 2 GA FOR USC. LV. MSG  Call 2729713  
In~ 5  I NEED TENN TIX BADLY I  FOR MK. 312/868-0119.  
AlsoN~ 1 USC  TICKETSIll TICKETSIll  CALL MIKE AT 1103.  Are you driving to  
X4421  2 Pin GA's n~ed Please call  CHARLOTIESVL, VA/vicinity lor  
Need Tenn GAs  x283-2831  break? II so,l need a ride!  
WILLING TO GIVE "SPECIAL  PLEASEII  Have$$$$  Sheri x2191  
FAVORS" FOR 2 NAVY GA'S  SELL ME 1 OR 2 TENN TIXII  Karen x4808  I n~ a GA lor NavyIll Call  
PLEASE II CALL AMY X4684  X1684  Jahnelle at x2867  COOL J • HAPPY 20th 1111111111111111111  


Lowest Fares 
©~[L[L ~00[9) ©@!Ml!P~OO~ 


page 14 The Observer Monday, October 7, 1991 
Irish get Legend Trophy, Clark move is temporary 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
PALO ALTO, Cal.-To the vic­tors go the spoils. 
And with its 42-26 victory over Stanford Saturday night, Notre Dame gets back the Legends Trophy it gave up to the Cardinal last season. 
The Legends Trophy is awarded by the Notre Dame Club of the San Francisco Bay Area annually to the winner of the Irish-Cardinal contest. A combination of Irish crystal and California redwood, the trophy was firSt presented in 1989. 
Stanford players Dave Garnett and Tommy Vardell presented the trophy to the Notre Dame locker room after the game to a loud ovation. 
"It's a beautiful trophy," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. "They took good care of it last year, and we'll take just as good care of it this year." 
Although sophomore Willie Clark started at free safety on Saturday, Holtz assured the media afterward that the change was not permanent. 
"Make no mistake about it, he will be a running back again," he said. "He's too good a tail­back. We just felt that we had to get him on the field." 
Clark make six tackles against the Cardinal, and in assessing his performance, Holtz commended him for sev­eral good reads he made in the course of the game . 
The Irish received bad news on the injury front about two key starters after the game. Senior Greg Davis tore some ligaments in his leg on Stanford's first series of the third quarter and is expected to miss at least six weeks. 
Sophomore Lake Dawson suffered what Holtz termed "a bad bruise to the ribs." His sta­tus for next week's game against Pittsburgh was un­known immediately after the game. 
Stanford's special teams play continued to haunt the team. Sophomore placekicker Aaron Mills missed a 34-yard field goal try on the Cardinal's frrst drive-Mills has made only one of six attempts all season. 
Meanwhile, junior punter Paul Stonehouse kicked four times for only a 35-yard average. Twice after Stanford was stopped deep in its own territory, poor punts gave Notre Dame excellent field position, and both times the Irish capi­talized for touchdowns. 
Even Stanford's normally
-
dangerous kick return corps self-destructed on Saturday. Junior All-American candidate Glyn Milburn fair caught a punt at the Cardinal five-yard line in the second quarter, and fresh­man Ozzie Grenardo--who had broken a 33-yard return ear­lier-fielded a kickoff while · running out of bounds at the two-yard line late in the third quarter. After Grenardo's miscue, Rod Smith intercepted a Palumbis pass at the Stanford 19, setting up Notre Dame's final touch­down. "I felt we did a good job neu­tralizing their kicking game," Holtz said. "I was concerned coming in, but in the end, the kicking game turned out to be a washout." 
When sophomore fullback Jerome Bettis and senior tail­back Tony Brooks both broke the century mark in rushing 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
yards in the first half, it marked the first time since Penn State in 1989 (Tony Rice and Ricky Watters) that two Irish runners had broken 100 yards in the same game. 
Bettis ended up with a career-high 179 yards on 24 carries and scored four touchdowns-the first time since Anthony Johnson in 1987 against Navy that an Irish player accomplished that feat. 
Brooks, meanwhile, gained 122 yards on the night, moving him to 15th on the career rush­ing yards list with 1,785. 
Cardinal fullback Tommy Vardell is nicknamed "Touchdown Tommy." Irish fans would agree that he is ap­propriately named. 
He followed up this year with three more touchdowns, mov­ing him into second place on the all-time Stanford career rushing touchdown list with 26, one behind Brad Muster. Vardell ended up with 23 car­ries for 140 yards on the night. 
"Vardell is an outstanding back," Holtz agreed. "He is as good a back as we've played against this year." 
No surprises as FSU is still #1 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 

The top five spots of the National Collegiate Sports­writers' Poll remained stable this week as favorites prevailed in the weekend's big matchups. 
Number one Florida State (5-0-0) manhandled Syracuse 46-14 despite Qadry Ismail's two touchdowns. The Orangemen (3-1-0) fell six spots, from twelve to eighteen, in this week's poll. 
Notre Dame (4-1-0) moved up a place to number seven as Clemson fell to number 12 from the sixth spot. Georgia's 27-12 defeat of the Tigers (3­1-0) allowed the Bulldogs (4­1-0) to enter the poll at number 22. 
The 14th-ranked Pittsburgh Panthers (5-0-0) will face the Irish next week at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Second-ranked Miami (4-0­
0) travels to number nine Penn State (5-1-0), while tenth-ranked Florida (3-1-0) faces number four Tennessee (4-0-0) in other action this Saturday. 
Don't let this happen to you. Sign up now tor an interview with the National Security Agency. We're looking for Spring '91 and Fall '91 graduates interested in full-time employment. It could be the opportunity you've been looking for. 
NSA is the Department of Defense agency charged with foreign Signals Intelligence, domestic Information Security, and overall Operations Security 
tor the U.S. Government. It's an important, exdting mission that lends itself to some unique job opportunities. So don't miss out on 
National


L~""..,."""
what could be the chance 
Security
of a lifetime. Meet with 
Agency

NSA. We're coming to The Opportunities of a Lifetime
campus. 

NSA INTERVIEW SCHEDULE 
The National Security Agency will be on campus November 19th Interviewing seniors maJoring In alectrlcalanglneerlng, computer science, mathematics and Asian, Middle Eastern and Slavic languages. Summer positions are also available for Juniors. 



-~---l
------~­
The Observer page 15
Monday, October 7, 1991 

• 

serve it, their record won't
ENVELOPE STUFFING -$600 •$800 every week • 
r.w1 stand in their way." 
Free Details: SASE to 
~~ '--------,
I$50,000.00* FOR COLLEGE I 
Brooks International, Inc. 
Only you can prevent forest fires. 
P.O. Box 680605 •Orlando, FL 32868 
Students can now obtain about $50,000.00 within oneyears time towards college costs, and any other expenses. 
This money Is available from bank, and department store credit card programs, and will not Interfere with any student 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
loans you might have, or are applying for. 
SUMMER ENGINEERING FOREIGN STUDY
Let Phoenix Publishing show you alternate ways to finance 
your college education. 
G
in
l 00% SATISFACTION IS GUARANTEED, 
R YOUR MONEY BACK, AND $20.00 CASH/ 
, x::=~~:~:m:~m~::::;;:~~;::r~~m::m~~~m.... =-~···~·"""'m'~-tij.•u·~·aamaf!llll# 
Send $19.99 Plus $2.00 Shipping and Handling To: PHOENIX PUBUSIDNG CORP. 

LONDON,ENGLAND 
707 Foulk Rd., U02 Wilmington, DE 19803-3700 
INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 9, 1991
Name -------------------­Address ____________________ 
Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m.
City ________State ____Zip ____ 
Allow 3-4 weeks dellvCI)'. 
•Amount of funds may vazy slightly for each Individual 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
SMC 
The Saint Mary's Call ege 
SPES UN I CA RESOURCE AND VOLUNTEER (SURV) CENTER Monty Python's 
OPENS TODAyI OCTOBER 7th 
11EANIN6 OF LIFE
in 250 Haggar Oct. 7-9th 8 & lOp.m.
(up the stairs from the snack bar) Carroll Auditorium
Hours: 1:30-5 MW Admission $ 13-5 T, Th, F 
sponsored by SAB phone 284-5368 (Or call Sharon Zint, Student Volunteer, Coordinator, at284-5130 for more information) 

Irish women run their way to 2nd place Game 
up with a career-high 179 yards on 24 carries. "We wanted to keep pounding on them." 
And after the teams ex­changed punts, Notre Dame proceeded to do just that. The offensive line again opened big holes at the line of scrimmage for the running back corps, and Mirer capped an eight-play, 62­yard drive with a 13-yard screen pass to Bettis, who rambled into the end zone for his third touchdown of the night. 
Notre Dame then sealed the victory moments later. After Cardinal return man Ozzie. Grenardo inexplicably fielded the kickoff as it went out of bounds at the two, Rod Smith intercepted a pass intended for Turner Baur that had been tipped by Jeff Burris at the 19. 
The teams changed ends of the field for the fourth quarter, and Holtz reached into his bag of tricks. Mirer pitched to Brooks on a sweep right, only to have him stop and throw back against the grain to a wide-open Mirer, who dove to the Cardinal one. Bettis dove over for his fourth touchdown to put Notre Dame up 42-14. 
"We felt that if we were ahead, that they would go to man coverage," Holtz ex­plained. "It was a play we felt would be open at that time." 
Two late touchdowns by Vardell made the final minutes of the game interesting, but when Tom Carter recovered an onside kick with 7:40 remain­ing, the Irish chewed up the rest of the clock, and bleary­eyed viewers on the East Coast could at last celebrate. 
"Notre Dame has a great chance at the national champi­onship," said Green, who has also had the opportunity to check out another contender in a 42-7 loss to Washington. "With their schedule, if they de­
By JONATHAN JENSEN second," said Irish coach Tim Sports Writer Connelly. Notre Dame freshman Eva 
The Notre Dame Women's Flood followed up her ninth­Cross-Country team continued place finish in the National an Impressive string of finishes Catholics Meet by pacing the on Friday, tallying 85 points to Irish once again, crossing the take second in the Notre Dame line at seventh. Invitational. "Eva ran real well," said 
Connelly. "She's become very 
South Dakota St., the top­consistent." ranked team in Division II cross The Notre Dame Invitational country, took first, second, and was highlighted by more im­
fourth places to win the race, pressive finishes for the fresh­just 13 points ahead of the men, with Stefanic Jensen fin­upstart Irish. ishing right behind fellow "I'm not disappointed with classmate Flood at eighth, and 
~~.m

NO GIMMICKS -~ EXTRA INCOME NOW!~ 
Emily Husted ending up at 19th. 
The meet was also marked by a good performance from se­nior Diana Bradley, who turned a few heads with a 16th place finish. · 
"She's probably running bet­ter than anybody right now," noted Connelly. 
Going into the meet, Notre Dame was expected to chal­lenge Eastern Michigan and South Dakota St. for the title. Eastern Michigan ended up fifth, and the Irish were happy with their performance. However, they feel they could have done better, considering the talent on their roster. 
"Coach [Connelly] felt we could have won it," said Jensen. 
Notre Dame's top seven run­ners stayed together for the frrst mile-and-a-half, but broke apart towards the end of the race. The Irish are trying to run more as a team, and coach Tim Connelly is stressing the team concept in practice. 
"We had really good team­work for the first part of the race," stated Jensen. 
"We did run well," said Flood. "If we can just get more of our fmishers at the top." 
Right now, the Irish feel they are only going to get better, and the future looks bright for the young squad. 
"I know we can run a whole lot better," noted Connelly. "And we're going to have to run better, if we hope to do well in Districts." 
Said Jensen, "We have the ability, we just have to get it together. And I think we will." 
continued from page 20 
stopping Vardell for only a short gain on fourth-and-six to give the Irish the ball at their own 30. 
"We moved the ball, but we couldn't score," Green said. "We couldn't stop them either." 
Indeed, Notre Dame scored twice more early in the second quarter, keeping the ball en­tirely on the ground on both drives. Bettis' second touch­down and Mirer's one-yard sneak gave the Irish a com­manding 28-0 lead with 6:4 7 left in the half. 
The whole complexion of the game turned, however, on two key plays. First, Brooks fum­bled in Notre Dame territory, and Stanford capitalized just three plays later. Vardell bounced to the outside on what appeared to be a nothing play and after breaking a tackle by Oliver Gibson, ran 27 yards to put the Cardinal on the board just before halftime. 
"That fumble changed the momentum in a hurry," Holtz said. "They fell into a rhythm and we couldn't get them out of it." 
More importantly was Davis' injury on Stanford's first series of the second half. The Cardinal drove 80 yards on 10 plays, and when Palumbis snuck over from the one, what had started as an Irish rout became a tight affair. With 7:32 left in the third quarter, the lead was down to 28-14. 
"Sure we remembered last year, so we didn't want to slack off any to give them any ground," said Bettis, who ended 


r-----------------------------~ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
page 16 The Observer Monday, October 7, 1991 
Women's soccer completes perfect 5-0 homestand 
INVITES YOU TO A COMPANY PRESENTATION 
TIME AND PLACE: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY CLUB UPPER LOUNGE OCTOBER 8, 1991 7:00-9:00 P.M. 
TO EVALUATE: INFORMATION REGARDING CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN CHEMISTRY, BIOLOGY AND ENGINEERING WITH MERCK MANUFACTURING DIVISION ­PHARMACEUTICAL MANUFACTURING 
MEET: 

COMPANY REPRESENTATIVES AND SCHOOL ALUMNI 
ENJOY: INFORMAL DISCUSSION AFTER THE PRESENTATION WITH COMPANY REPRESENTATIVES AND SCHOOL AWMNI 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN: CHEMISTRY BIOLOGY ENGINEERING 
DEGREES: B.S., M.S., Ph.D. 
We not only develop extraordinary products ... we develop extraordinary careers. 
@BJMerck & Co., Inc. 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Writer 
It was another successful weekend for the Notre Dame women's soccer team as the Irish reached the halfway point in their schedule undefeated. 
On Friday, they defeated the Southern Illinois-Edwardsville Cougars, who are ranked eighth nationally in the Division II poll, 4-0. Then the Irish beat the Wisconsin-Milwaukee Panthers, 3-0, on Sunday in Milwaukee to up their record to 8-0-2. 
Notre Dame overpowered SlUE on both sides of the ball, outshooting the Cougars 13-2. Mter playing aggressively and jumping out to a 3-0 first-half lead, the Irish played a more conservative, yet effective sec­ond half in an effort to protect their lead. 
"It is tough to play intensively when you are up 3-0," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said. "We won the game in the rrrst half. In the second half, we played well enough to keep the game where it was. The game was basically over at halftime." 
The Irish attack was led by Stephanie Porter, the leading scorer in the MCC, and Jodi Hartwig, who had a goal and two assists. The frrst two Irish goals were set up by crosses from Hartwig, which resulted in goal-scoring headers by Porter and Susie Zilvitis. Porter returned the favor when she fed Hartwig with a pass up the middle which led to a shot from ten yards out that beat Cougar keeper, Marilyn Kastner. 
"Jodi played outstanding; this was the best game she has played for us," Petrucelli com­mented, "The team came out and played well all over the field." 
Porter then added her second goal of the game, eleventh of the season, with seven minutes to go in the game. 
The win enabled Notre Dame to finish its homestand at 5-0. Petrucelli was extremely happy with his team's play over the course of the five games. 
"These games put us in a po­sition where now the games we play on the road are meaning­ful, as far as the [NCAA] tour­nament and a national ranking go," Petrucelli added. 
The Irish were successful in the first of five consecutive games on the road. They de­feated Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 3­0, on Sunday to increase their winning streak to six. · 
After going into halftime with a 1-0 lead, the Irish broke the game open in the second half behind two goals which were assisted by Tiffany Thompson, one by Jill Matesic and the other by Alison Lester. Hartwig and Porter teamed up again for Notre Dame's first goal, when Porter hit Hartwig with a pass which she turned into the goal. 
The Notre Dame defense was at its best this weekend, sur­rendering only two shots on goal in each game, and also counterattacking effectively, which paid off when Matesic scored. The Irish now have seven shutouts for the season and have limited opponents to 69 shots on goal in ten games. 
"We play really well together," Irish defender Andrea Kurek said, "As the season has progressed our confidence in [Irish goalkeeper] Michelle [Lodyga] and in each other has grown." 
The Irish defense will be tested next weekend when the team travels to Virginia to take on William & Mary and Monmouth. 
"It is a slight adjustment playing on the road; it is the teams we play that is going to make it difficult," Kurek said, "We have a tough schedule ahead, which is going to show us where we are at." 
The Observer I R. Garr Schwartz Notre Dame's Melissa Harris serves in a match at last weekend's Notre Dame Invitational, an event won by Harris. 
$30,000 
BEFORE YOU GRADUATE 
Tbe Navy offers you, as a qualified college student, 1he chance to earn up to $30,000 during your junior and senior years. And you never have to put on a Navy uniform until after graduation. No drills, no summer obligations. In 1he Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Program you'll get your start in nuclear power where nuclear power started. In 1he Navy. After you graduate, you'll get six mon1hs of graduate level engineering education in Orlando, Florida, plus six mon1hs of hands-on engineering training at a nuclear reactor trainer•••and more. Just meet 1hese requirements: 
• 
Have completed sophomore year, majoring in engineering, math, science, or chemistry. 

• 
Have a minimum 3.3 GPA (4.0 scale) 

• 
Have completed a ma1hematics sequence 1hrough integral calculus. 

• 
Be a United states citizen, no more 1han 2S 1/2 years old at time of commissioning. 

• 
Meet Navy's physical standards 


Call our Indianapolis office Toll Free 
at 1-800-553-114 7 
NAVY OFFICER You and the Navy. Full Speed Ahead. 
OFFERING YOU A WORLD OF 
just had a great weekend. The whole team did. All four girls in the first flight beat number-one girls from other schools. " 
"I didn't think our doubles played that well," continued Louderback. "We tried to over­hit at times that needed finesse. Our doubles will be fine, and we should end up with three strong teams. We'll switch around for Brown (Invitational) next week to look at different combinations." 
The Irish will be traveling to Rhode Island next weekend to participate in the Brown Invitational. As was the case this weekend, Tracy Barton will not be playing, resting up for the spring season. Harvard and Tennessee, both ranked in the top 25, will also be competing, so this will be an excellent op­portunity for the Irish to turn some heads. 
"I was very pleased with the singles play," said Louderback. "With the exception of Melissa, everyone played up a flight, which gave them tougher com­pelion, making their perfor­mances even better. We have six that could be number-one players." 
Tennis 

continued from page 20 
Faustmann rebounded to claim third place with a 6-4, 6-3 tri­umph over Miami (Ohio)'s Amy Boyle. Lisa Tholen turned in a sixth-place finish in the top­singles draw, falling 6-1, 6-2 to Vera Vitels of Drake in her fmal match. 
In the number-two singles flight, Terri Vitale finished in second place, dropping a close 
6-0, 6-1 match to Kentucky's Lora Suttile. The first set of that match was the only set that Suttile lost in the tournament. Senior Ann Bradshaw, after dropping her opening match, breezed through the consolation bracket without dropping a set to fmish in ninth place. 
Likewise, senior Kristy Doran fell in her first match in the number-three singles flight, losing a tough three-setter to Illinois' Lissa Kimmel, 6-1, 1-6, 6-2, but regrouped to win the consolation bracket and claim ninth place. Eniko Bende beat Jeanne Baker from Miami (Ohio) 6-3, 6-2 to finish in 11th place. Kentucky's Susan Bartl won the flight, beating Allison Kinsey of Ohio State 6-3, 6-1. 
In the fourth-singles draw, Catherine McGinley finished in fourth place, falling to eventual champion Bethany Avington of Kentucky along the way in a tough 7-6, 6-3 contest. 
In doubles, Faustmann and Tholen came in second in the first-doubles flight, falling 6-4, 1-6, 6-3 in a closely played championship to Amy Boyle and Nicole Catalano of Miami (Ohio). Doran and Vitale made it to the number-two doubles championship and won the title on a default. The two other Irish doubles teams did not fin­ish competition, as matches were cancelled due to time al­lotments. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback saw the weekend as a chance for the Irish to get back into the swing of things, to get back to playing matches after the summer, and was encouraged with what he saw. 
"Melissa has been playing very well," said Louderback. "She's worked very hard and 
--~ 
Monday, October 7, 1991 The Observer page 17 
~M=======,====================.=============================k======d======~--X~:--C::::-----------------:f-ro-m--~M~a~lo_n_e____c:o-y~l~e--h~a~d 
ens soccer WinS two over wee en 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
Coach Mike Berticelli said that a potent offense Is the last piece to the puzzle on the men's soccer team's road to success, and this weekend the Irish put that piece in place with wins over Midwestern Collegiate Conference rivals Xavier and Dayton, 8-0 and 3­2. 
Friday night at Xavier, the Irish offense collected five sec­ond-half goals as they cruised to victory over the Musketeers. 
Senior Kenyon Meyer headed in a pass from Brett Hofmann to open the scoring less than two minutes into the game, and the Irish never looked back. 
Sophomore Mike Palmer col­lected the next Irish goal 9:42 into the game on an assist from Jean Joseph before Ray Prado finished the first-half scoring on a pass from Joseph nine minutes later. 
Meyer's indirect kick opened the second-half explosion 
68:20 into the game and Keith Carlson collected the first of his two consecutive breakaway goals at the 77:48 mark on an assist from sophomore Mike Palmer. Carlson put in his next breakaway unassisted just two minutes later. 
Junior Brendan Dillman con­verted a Kevin Pendergast pass at the 84:13 mark and Pendergast scored a goal of his own just over a minute later to complete the Irish scoring. 
The Irish defense allowed the Musketeers only nine shots on goal in the shutout. 
It wasn't as easy yesterday against Dayton, as the Irish struggled defensively but escaped with a 3-2 win. Both teams failed to score in the opening period, but the second half saw each team wear out the back of the nets. 
Dayton's Brady O'Toole and Notre Dame's Jean Joseph each netted a pair of goals in the second half, but the difference was Tont Richardson, who kept the Irish in front with a crucial goal in the final stanza. Palmer and freshman Tim Oates assisted on Joseph's goals and Joseph set up Richardson's tally. 
It was an uncharacteristic struggle for the Irish defense as they allowed the Flyers 13 shots on goal, but the Irish of­fense was able to convert three of its 12 shots to preserve the victory. 
The Irish, now 4-3-1 overall and 3-1-1 in the MCC, travel to Valparaiso Wednesday night before returning home next Sunday afternoon to face Butler. 
American

Together, we can change things. 
Red Cross 

+ 

-
continued from page 20 

but their pack-running style did not last long. 
"We got out better than we did last week," said captain Keams. "We were more confi­dent at the start, but we didn't run well as a team." 
At the two-mile marker, Coyle, McWilliams, and Radkewich were running with the front group. Kearns had fallen into the second pack and the remaining Irish runners were in the third pack of run­ners. 
After three miles, Malone College which fmished second to the Irish in team scoring, was running one-two with Coyle and McWilliams not far behind in the lead pack. Radkewich, Kearns, and Ruder were running in the next three groups respectively. 
With a mile to go in the race, it looked like the Irish might have their first individual champion since 1964 as McWilliams had taken the lead 
dropped back Into the third pack, Radkewlch into the fourth, and Kearns Into the 
fifth. 
Unfortunately, McWilliams developed a severe stomach cramp with a half-mile to go in the race and quickly fell to 12th place. 
"It literally came out of nowhere," said McWilliams of the cramp. "I decided to try at win it at four miles. I surged right before the marker. The cramp hit me in the middle of my surge and crippled me for a quarter of a mile." 
After McWilliams slipped back in the pack, Coyle moved into the lead for the Irish. 
"One of John's best qualities is his leadership," said McWilliams. "He has an intense desire to do well for the team. When I went down, he really picked it up and pushed himself for the team." 
In the Gold Division, Notre Dame edged out South Dakota State by a point in the team competition. Derrick Powers of South Dakota State captured the individual title with a time of 24:49.4. Senior Mike Drake was the highest finisher for the Irish with a 9th place finish. 
Junior J. T. Burke and sophomore Hugh Mundy were not far behind placing lOth and 11th respectively. Sophomores Shawn Schneider, Jim Trautmann, and Tom Lillis, and freshmen J. R. Meloro also turned in strong performances for the Irish. 
The Irish have two weeks to prepare for their next meet, the Indiana Intercollegiates. 
Line 
continued from page 20 
But Stanford's gambling style of defensive play backfired on Saturday. With a week to pre­pare for the various stunts and blitzes the Cardinal employ, Notre Dame turned them to Its advantage. Stanford defenders were allowed to move wherever they pleased, only to have Irish running backs speed by them and linemen blocking their access to stopping them . 
Notre Dame's 367 rushing yards were over 100 yards more than the Cardinal's previ­ous season high for yards al­lowed, while Irish backs had 14 runs of 10 or more yards. 
"Coming in, we watched a lot of film on them, and we saw that they run a lot of different fronts and stunts," McGuire said. "We were hoping to catch them in the right stunt at the right time, and we were suc­cessful more times than not tonight." 
And while the fans saw the end results, the offensive line must be content with knowing it had just completed a job well done. 
"Everything I got tonight is a c:redit to them," Bettis con­cluded. 
Truer words have never ;.,een spoken. 
UNTIL THERE IS NO LONELINESS, NO DESTITUTION, NO SICKNESS, NO WAR .•. 
Please support. American Red Cross + 


----------~­
page 18 The Observer Monday, October 7, 1991 
OC football caught in another controversy 
Tennis at Kent. 
London Brussels Frankfurt Hong Kong Sydney 

•F<Yes <Ye edCh w~ from roondtrip purchase. Taxes not 1 restrictials apply. call fi::>r other WCIICIWICie 1 destinations, both one w~ iJ"1d rOllldbip. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. DeiJ"bcm St., 2nd flocr Chicago,ll60610 
311-951-0585 
Call For A Fr4t4t 199~ Stud4tnt 
Travel catalog! 

Parseghian division, but it only intensified it. 
Morrissey tailback Joel Winey scored on a 15-yard, second quarter run and Grace scored on Jamie McMillian's 5-yard plunge to open the third quar­ter. 
The winner of this game would have clinched a playoff spot, but now both teams must win their final games to ad­vance. 
u It was a well played game," said Morrissey coach Tim Renfree. uFlanner is a well or­ganized team." 
PANGBORN 6, SORIN 0 

A number of injuries and a botched punt attempt were too much for the Otters to over­come as they lost their second game of the season. 
Sarin was forced to play without lineman Ed Policy, Mike Murphy, and Kevin Harness and the lack of size allowed Pangborn to halt Sarin's ground attack. 
uwe had trouble blocking 
Night Owls: 
If you like to stay up late, why not earn some money and have fun doing it? The Observer is looking for design editors. 
Call Jay Colucci 
and remain perfect in Rockne Cavanuagh. division play. Linebacker Willie Bruening 
Baker got five of his seventy and noseguard Jeremy Groll yards rushing in the first quar­led the Stanford defense in ter on a 5-yard option play, and holding Cavaunaugh offense to Smith squeaked through the St. only a second quarter Ed's secondary to catch a 50-touchdown, and a forced a yard bomb right before the half missed PAT attempt which to give the Green Wave a lead eventually would be the margin their defense would never of victory. relinquish. 
Brent Falen at noseguard .------~!1!!11!!!!!1!!11!!!!!!!! 
and defensive back Don Helt led a defense which held St. Ed's to only four first downs. 
Fisher is looking ahead to its matchup against Carroll, the only other unbeaten team in the Rockne division. 
uwe are looking forward to Carroll," said Baker. uThey are a good team, with very active linebackers." 
KEENAN 3, ZAHM 0 
A first quarter field goal by Matt Davis, allowed Keenan to slip past Zahm and even its record at 1-1. 
Davis' 22-yard field goal in the games waning moments, 
Stanford's offense scored on a 60-yard bomb late in the game, it's only offensive suc­cess against a scrappy Cavanaugh defense. 
uThey played really well," said Stanford defensive back Mike Donnino. uThey are a good team, but our defense played exceptionally well." 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
Former Notre Dame varsity player Rusty Setzer led Off­Campus' interhall football team to a 21-0 victory over Grace on Sunday, but he may have also led the Crime into more contro­versy surrounding the eligibility of their players. 
For the second straight week the Crime may be questioned by Rec Sports officials, surrounding the eligibility of their players. 
Last weekend, the defending interhall champs were stripped of seven players from its roster, after Rec Sports officials found these players to be ineligible under interhall rules. 
The controversy surround­ing Setzer pertains to wether he earned a monogram as a varsity player in 1989. Interhall rules say that no varsity player who has earned a letter may participate in interhall athletics. 
ui checked with Rec Sports four times before the game against Grace about Rusty's el­igibility," said Crime coach Steve Fortunato. uThey (Rec Sports) even talked to us right before the game about it." 
Setzer's eligibility may have never been questioned, except for the fact that in the Notre Dame football media guide, it states that Setzer earned a let­ter in 1989 as a reserve flanker and on special teams. Grace coach Matt Garberina took no­tice of this, and contacted Rec Sports officials, who were unavailable for comment on the matter. 
ui contacted Rec Sports, but I was unable to get any response from them on the matter," said Garberina. 
If Setzer is found ineligible it will be the second time Rec Sports and Off-Campus have had a miscommunication. 
In the previous incident Fortunato was told that the former Crime members were allowed to play due to a new ruling that said that Holy Cross students were allowed to play. 
After ruling the players ineli­gible, the Rec Sports office blamed the whole ordeal on miscommunication. 
The game itself proved to be a big triumph for the Crime. Despite losing seven players, they played flawless defense and punished the Grace defense with Setzer and QB Paul Novak doing most of the damage. 
Early in the game, offensive lineman Chris Logue caught a deflected pass and returned it 50 yards for the game's first score. The Crime brought the score 14-0 on a eight yard scamper by Novak after the half, and they completed their scoring on a 20-yard run by Fortunato late in the game. 
uThe score doesn't reflect the game," said Garberina. uThey execute very well and that's tough to stop, but we played them tough." 
MORRISSEY 6, FLANNER 6 

This game was supposed to settle the dispute over who de­serves the top spot in the missing all those lineman," said running back Chris Estes. uwe had to many holes in the line to fill." 
The Otters played right with Pangborn, despite the players' absence and might have pulled out at least a tie, except for a fumble recovery in the endzone by Pangborn late in the third quarter. 
The Sarin center and punter were unable to connect on a punt and the result was Pangborn's margin of victory. 
uThat play was such a fluke," said Estes. ult's tough to lose like that." 
FISHER 12, ST. EDWARD'S 0 
Fisher used the running of Curtis Baker and the speed of Renzy Smnith to beat St. Ed's was the only scoring that either teams could muster in the de­fensive struggle. 
Zahm appeared to be driving towards victory in the games wanning moments, but at the 30-yard line Dave Dettore hit Zahm QB Chris Hammon forc­ing him to throw an errant pass into the arms of defensive lineman Tom Flemming, which ended any hopes for a Zahm victory. 
uour secondary played really well," said Dettore. uThe weather really wasn't too coop­erative with our offense." 
STANFORD 7, ZAHM 6 
The Studs, playing without talented running back Lamar Guillory, turned to their defense and edged winless 
Special to The Observer 
Sophomore Tommy North and junior Chris Wojtalik each reached the finals of the C-flight at the Kentucky Invitational on Sunday. However they did not play the final match in Lexington and instead will face off one day this week in practice to determine the winner. 
Two of Notre Dame's doubles teams reached the finals but both failed to win. Andy Zurcher and Will Forsyth dropped their B­llight title match to Indiana's Jason Yeager and David Culley 6-3, 3-6, 7-6. Rosas and Wojtalik were defeated by Erik Barrett and Chris Decker of Indiana 7-5, 7-5 in the C-flight frnals. 

CAMPUS BADMINTON-MEN AND WOMEN UNDERGRADUATES GRADUATE STUDENTS FACULTYANDSTAFF 
VOLLEYBALL IHMEN IHWOMEN 
CO-REC BASKETBALL 
BASKETBALL OFFICIALS MEETING THURSDAY,OCT.lO 6:00, IN THE JACC AUDITORIUM 
ENTRY DEADLINE -OCTOBER 9

SECURITY OPEN FORUM II 
Monday Oct. 7th • 7:00 PM Madeleva Hall Room 351 
forum to answer questions regarding safety on and off campus 
Featuring Dick Chlebek, Director Of Saint Mary's Security And Member Of The South Bend Police Force 
The Observer page 19 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON GARY LARSON 
~~~~-------------­




... 


"The fuel light's on, Frankl We're all going to die! ... Walt, walt. ••• Oh, my mistake-that's the by scratching me behind the ears." SPflUHKER Intercom light." JAY HOSLER 
--------------~ 
1\IOP£. AND TO ToP If
BILL WATTERSON

AND HOBBES Cl Ff, II'S AL-RE.ADY B££N R£VI£W£D. 

CAMPUS  
Monday  - 
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-:U 49 Map abbreviation 1B The bottom ---­ACROSS 50 Company bigwig 19 O.K. Corral Paleozoic, Meso­(abbr.) participantzoic, etc. 51 Alleviate 24 Houses, in 5 Car accessory 55 Chemical catalyst Hermosillo 10 Soviet news agency 59 EDP equipment 25 Reproductive organ 14 Function (2 wds .) 26 1961 baseball MVP 15 Parenthetical 61 Subject of the 27 Farmer's concern comment movie, "Them" 2B Prefix for mural 16 Ja i -62 South American 29 Extreme 1 y pa 1 e 17 Prtnciple of animal 30 Seashore struc­economics ( 3 wds .) 63 Home -tures 20 Provide evidence 64 Nearly all 31 Brilliance of 21 With 60-00wn, house 65 Like some breakfast success pet foods 32 Bridle attachment 22 -volta (once, 66 Mah-jongg piece 37 Unselfish person in music) 39 Astronaut 23 Suffix for diction DOWN 45 "L'-, c'est moi" or honor 46 Prefix for maniac 24 Promissory note, 1 Formerly, formerly 47 China's "Great -e.g. (2 wds.) 2 Debauchee forward" 33 Ms. Gardner 3 European range 4B Cultured milk 34 Sea eagles 4 Deviated -51 Economist Smith 35 French resort 5 Traveler on foot 52 --Japanese War 36 Poet Teasdale 6 British phrase 53 Bilka and York 38 Novelist Philip and 7 Wrestling maneuver (abbr.) actress Lillian 8 Actor Byrnes, 54 First name in jazz 40 Type of restaurant, et al. 55 Site of 1960 for short 9 Phone again Olympics 41 Seed covering 10 1957 movie, "­56 Toilet case 42 -school the Bachelor" 57 Ms. Carter 43 Was a candidate 11 Winglike parts 58 Subject of Kilmer 44 EDP personnel 12 ---­souci poem (2 wds.) 13 Beef quantity 60 See 21-Across 1 , "), t ,Iiiii .f ,.\1 ' '•I',' • ,lit, C, '9 # '\ If II' , f • • 1 • I'' 'f ' .. ,... 'ti ,""W • 1! 1 'I"'. • ~ ' .. •'If fll" 'f .__ 4 .. 4 .. 1 "" 4 'I' • ~  '# ('' If  ~  I  ~ •  "  I ,,  .... '{ 1' • f .tt  7 p.m. Film, "Citizen Kane." Annenberg Auditorium. 9:15p.m. Film, "Some Came Running." Annenberg Auditorium. LECTURES Monday 7-9 p.m. Tribute to Our Blessed Mother Lecture Series, "The Seven Sorrows of the Blessed Mother," Father Patrick Gaffney; "The Miracle of the Sun at Fatima," Brian Miller, '66 ND graduate; "1989 Pilgrimage to Medjugorie," Rebecca Moody. Library Auditorium. 7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Are Composers Born or Made? How Writing Helps Us to Learn," Ann Berthoff, University of Massachusetts­Boston. Engineering Auditorium. Sponsored by Freshman Writing Program. MENU Notre Dame Saint Mary's French DipMeat Loaf Baked Pork Chops Chicken Teriyaki Vegetarian Eggplant Parm. Pasta Primavera Cass. Deli Bar • 't .. , 1' ... ) 1' 'Qo .. 'f .. .., .. .1\: • II; 'II' W 'lf ,41 ,'J ~ '\t • ") • •"l lJI ~ .f -.:: .• ~ f ... ~ II' • . . •·­.......... _..,..,~,.,...,""""'"'•·'·•"'u""..u...,J•JI•J•••"•"•~•J.w.  - 

r Sports 
page 20 Monday, October 7, 1991 
Notre Dame exacts revenge, beats Stanford 46-22 
Bettis and T. Brooks run the Cardinal into the ground 
By RENE FERRAN third quarter, Notre Dame went yards on their second play from Associate Sports Editor back to its. traditional set, and scrimmage. Stanford took advantage. Bettis then broke a 22-yard 
PALO ALTO, Cal.-This time, "I thought the first 25 min­run to the Cardinal 27, and two Notre Dame left no doubt who utes, we played as well on de­plays later, Mirer found Lake the better football team was. fense as we have in a long Dawson on a middle screen. 
The eighth-ranked Irish raced time," said Holtz. "But when we Dawson broke through a sea of out to a 28-0 first-half lead, and lost Davis, we lost an awful lot. defenders at the 25 and raced then withstood a strong We couldn't do a lot of the untouched into the end zone to Stanford rally in the second half things we had been doing and give Notre Dame a 7-0 lead. to defeat the Cardinal 42-26 wanted to do." The Cardinal tried to answer Saturday night at Stanford Until Davis' injury, Notre back on its next possession. A Stadium. Dame had been in complete Palumbis-to-Glyn Milburn con­
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz control of the game. The offen­nection gained 13. Tommy closed practice all last week to sive line was blasting huge Vardell converted on fourth­install a new-look defense espe­holes into the Stanford defense, and-one at the Notre Dame 39, cially to counter Stanford's po­allowing backs Jerome Bettis and it appeared Stanford was in tent offense. He moved senior and Tony Brooks to amass over business once again. Greg Davis from strong safety to 100 yards apiece in the fll'St 30 The drive collapsed, though, drop end and sophomore Willie minutes of the game. when Palumbis pulled out from Clark back to the secondary in "Notre Dame really can take it under center too soon. The ball order to' have five defensive to you with its great line," squirted from his grasp and into backs in at all times, enabling praised Cardinal coach Dennis the waiting arms of linebacker the Irish to blitz and play more Green. "They did a terrific job Demetrius DuBose. man coverage while having to of rushing. Their running backs The Irish quickly marched 59 make fewer adjustments. run hard and with extreme yards-all on the ground-in 
The results were promising. power." seven plays to another score. The Cardinal scored only seven After Stanford missed a 34-Bettis bowled over from the points against the scheme, with yard field goal attempt on its three, and Notre Dame led 14~ quarterback Jason Palumbis opening drive, the Irish went 0. forced to throw only conserva­ahead establishing its domi­DuBose came up big on tive routes for most of the first nance in the trenches. The line Stanford's next series as well, half. provided quarterback Rick 
But when Davis tore liga­Mirer excellent protection, and ments in his leg early in the Mirer hit Tony Smith for 25 sea GAME I page15 
Success of rushing attack is no surprise with the offensive line getting job done 
PALO ALTO,------------impossible to ignore. It consistently blew Cal.-Individually, Lindsay 
Stanford off the line of scrimmage, opening Knapp, Aaron Taylor, Gene gaping holes through which Bettis, Tony Brooks McGuire, Mirko Jurkovic and (17-122} and Rodney Culver (5-44) could Justin Hall may not scamper untouched for big gains. command many headlines. "Every ga}De we go out there thinking that the 
Collectively, however, the offensive line plays a big part in establishing the starting members of the tempo," Hall said. "If we don't block up front and Notre Dame offensive line Rene Ferran come otT the ball hard, the offense doesn't move, are a devastating Associate Sports Editor 
and that sends a bad message to the team right combination, as they proved off the bat." conclusively in Saturday's -------But did Hall expect the Irish to dominate the 42-26 win over Stanford. Cardinal up front as thoroughly as they did? 
"I don't know what else I can say about our "Oh no, we were expecting a real tough game," offensive line except that they played a great he replied. "It was a real physical game, but we game tonight," exclaimed fullback Jerome Bettis, had the edge as far as we wanted it a little more whose own performance Saturday night was not than they did." shabby either (24 rushes, 179 yards). Granted, the Stanford defensive line has been 
Offensive linemen by nature do not get the hurting throughout the season, with two accolades. Their work often goes unnoticed, starters-Tyler Batson and Estevan while its by-products-the 100-yard rusher Avila-returning this week from injuries. Still, (Notre Dame had two against Stanford) or the the Cardinal, using a slashing, attacking style, star quarterback (Rick Mirer completed 9-of-16 held Colorado to only 153 rushing yards in their passes for 108 yards and two touchdowns}-get 28-21 upset of the Buffaloes last week. 
The Observer 1 Andrew MoCioskey
all the attention. 

Tony Brooks high-steps it down the sidelines en route to gaining some
But Saturday night, the line's play was 
see LINE I page 17 
of his 122 rushing yards. 
Men's X-C wins team title,
Irish women win big at NO Invite 
By RICH SZABO more than two games in a set closer than the score. Everyone 
but denied individual champ
Sports Writer the entire weekend. did well, so that gives us a lot In the finals, Harris had to of confidence going into Brown 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sophomore Mike McWilliams If this weekend's Irish face Irish freshman Laura next weekend, and that's im­
Sports Writer was the next highest Irish fin­-Invitational is a harbinger of Schwab, playing in her first portant." 
isher in 12th place. things to come, then the Notre tournament. On her way to the Schwab's debut on the Notre 
Junior Nick Radkewich fin­
The drought continues. Dame women's tennis team finals, Schwab posted an im­Dame tennis circuit was an im­
ished 15th, senior Pat Kearns
The Notre Dame men's cross has a lot of success to look pressive 6-2, 6-1 victory over pressive one, and she was 
finished 17th, and freshmen
country team was denied once forward to. 42nd-ranked Lindsey Nimmo pleased with her performance. 
Nate Ruder ended in 25th
again an individual championShowing an amazing amount of Illinois. She then had to face "I was nervous, and it wasn't 
place. Senior Kevin Keegan and
at the Notre Dame Invitational • 
freshmen John Cowan also
of depth, with almost everyone teammmate Christy easy," said Schwab. "The com­
this weekend, but was able to on the team playing up a flight Faustmann, and turned in a 7-petition here is so much differ­
placed in the top 40 for the
win the team championship for Irish.
and first-singles player Tracy 6 (7-3), 6-3 win before running ent from high school. I had to the second year in a row. 
Barton sitting out, the Irish into Harris in the finals, her play Lindsay Nimmo, who's Notre Dame coach Joe PianeMike Formica of Pitt won the is looking at the win realisti­flexed some tennis muscle, second straight match against ranked. I'm really pleased get­individual title in the nation's 
indicating that they are a force a teammate. ting to the finals of my first cally.
oldest cross country race. 
to be reckoned with. Harris, currently ranked 31st tournament. I don't know how "It is fun to get a victory, butSando Rebenciuc of Augustana 
In the first singles flight, ju­in the country, proved to be too much was expected of me, but we didn't run well," said Pian e. 
finished second and Ira 
nior Melissa Harris captured much for Schwab, and came I hope I met those "I think we ran better last week Wentworth of Malone came in 
the title with a convincing run away with a 6-2, 6-1 victory to expectations. I hope to get 
(at the National Catholic
third. 

through the draw, not dropping claim the crown. better with each tournament, Meet)."
Junior John Coyle was the 
a single set in four matches. In "It wasn't easy," said Harris. and just have go out and play The Irish got off to a betterhighest finisher for the Irish 
fact, a second set 6-4 victory in "I don't like playing my team­start then they did last week,with a sixth place finish and a 
her fll'st-round match was the mates, it makes it a lot 
time of 24:44.3 on a soggy
only time that Harris dropped tougher. The match was much see TENNIS I page 16 Burke Memor-ial course. 
see X-C I page 17 







