



贩21992 SE 5QU1Cl NTfNNIAl 
VOL. XXIV NO. 15 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey
Football fanatics 
Football fans of all kinds came together last Saturday to show their support for the Notre Dame football team. The Fighting Irish defeated Indiana by a score of 49-27. 
SMC Security probes assaults 
By EMILY WILLETT Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Security is investigating the assault of a Saint Mary's student which took place at approximately 8:30 
p.m. Wednesday night on the campus. 
The victim reported that she was walking from her car in the Angela Athletic Facility parking lot on the walkway which runs beside the building when the attacker approached her from behind. 
The victim said that the assailant covered her mouth with his hand and attempted to drag her toward a nearby tree. The victim said she freed herself from the attacker, slashing his face with her keys, and ran to McCandless Hall. 
She described the attacker to the reporting officer as a white male, around 30 years old, with normal build, dark hair and approximately six feet taU. 
Security conducted an investigation of the area which was to no avail. 
This incident is the second reported attack on campus this 
week.  On  Monday  evening  
Security  responded  to  a  
reported  assault  on  the  

walkway between McCandless Hall and the Cushwa-Leighton Library. While both cases are still under investigation, at this time the two incidents are believed to be unrelated. 
"We do not have enough concrete evidence at this time to show that the incidents are associated," said Richard Chle~ bek, Director of Safety and Security. 
Saint Mary's Security will be increasing security presence in the areas of the two attacks, 
see ASSAULTS/ page 4 

Muslim kidnappers demand more releases 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) 
Shiite Muslim kidnappers said 
Thursday they back efforts to 
arrange a comprehensive 
hostage deal, but renewed 
demands that jailed comrades 
in Europe be freed as part of 
any swap. 
Despite such obstacles, there 
was optimism that the hostage 
ordeal could end with a phased 
release of Arab prisoners held 
by Israel, Israeli POWs and the 
11 Westerners missing in 
Lebanon. 
In the latest sign of progress, 
Israel received the body of Sgt. Samir Assad, a soldier listed as missing in Lebanon since April 1983, and allowed a deported Palestinian, Ali Abu Hila}, to return home. 
An Israeli military statement said Hilal's return wa.s "a gesture" by Israel, "conditioned 
upon his agreement not to 
break the law in the future." 
The Palestinian activist was 
expelled from the occupied 
West Bank in 1986. 
In Abu Dis, Hilal's hometown 
on the outskirts of Jerusalem, 
the mood was jubilant. The 
family prepared banners saying 
"Welcome Home, 0' Hero Ali 
Abu Hilal... 
The trade was the second 
public step in an apparent 
multi-stage deal. 
United Nations Secretary
General Javier Perez de Cuellar, 
in Tehran for talks with Iranian officials, said he believed there was momentum toward a resolution of the hostage issue. 
"I am moving in that direction, as you know," said Perez de Cuellar, who has spearheaded diplomatic efforts to win the hostages' freedom. "I 
have already got good results, 
which I hope will be the 
beginning." 
Others close to the hostage 
bargaining said behind-the
scenes talks continued. 
"There is definitely a positive 
atmosphere about the issue and 
there are hush-hush, backstage 
efforts being exerted," said 
Abdulla al-Amin, a Shiite 
member of the Lebanese 
Cabinet. 
In Washington, President 
Bush sidestepped a question on 
whether he believed the release 
of a Western hostage in Beirut may be imminent. 
But he told reporters that Wednesday's release of 51 Arab prisoners by Israel "is bound to be viewed as very, very favorable." 
In addition to the prisoner release, Israel also repatriated 
the bodies of nine Muslim 
guerrillas on Wednesday after 
receiving word on the death of 
one of its missing soldiers. The 
Jewish state has said it wants 
information on all its missing 
soldiers before releasing more 
Lebanese and Palestinian 
prisoners. 
Thursday's statement came 
from the pro-Iranian Islamic 
Jihad. It was accompanied by a 
picture of American Terry 
Anderson, whom it is believed 
to hold. An identical photo was 
released by the group last 
month. 
Anderson, 43, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press, was kidnapped March 16, 1985. He is the longest-held Western hostage. 
In the statement, Islamic Jihad urged Perez de Cuellar to 
keep trying to arrange a deal. 
"We are fully prepared to 
extend the required support for 
him to reach the required 
comprehensive solution," it 
said. 
Islamic Jihad welcomed the 
Israeli prisoner release as a 
"positive step," but said it was 
not enough. 
"We ... consider it (the prisoner release) an incomplete one unless it culminates in freeing all our imprisoned brethren in the world, especially in Europe and the jails of the Zionist enemy," it 
said. 
That apparently referred to Shiite prisoners including hijacker Hussein Hariri, held in Switzerland since July 1987, and brothers Mohammed Ali 
see HOSTAGES I page 7 

Frustrated Democrat Senators 
question Thomas on opinions 
WASHINGTON (AP) -FrusJoseph Biden, the Judiciary fields" than Heflin expected. trated Democrats accused Committee chairman, after the Thomas continued to turn Supreme Court nominee nominee said he "could not sit aside questions about his views Clarence Thomas Thursday of here and decide" whether unon abortion, finally telling Sen. evading questions about his remarried couples had a right to Herb Kohl, D-Wis., "Whether or 
treat from past positions and privacy. not I have a view is irrelevant." unreasonably refusing to say Thomas eventually said sexOn the subject of changinghow he would approach future ual relations and childbearing positions, Kohl asked Thomas, cases. by unmarried couples were pro"Why is it inappropriate for us But that frustration did not tected by a privacy right, but to make an evaluation of your 
appear to be galvanizing opponot before Biden said: "It's getcareer based on all of what you sition. Sen. Howell Heflin, Dting more like a debate to get have written and said?" Ala., who earlier this week suginformation." Kohl suggested that Thomas 
gested Thomas had changed his Despite such complaints, was telling the committee "Just stances in a "confirmation conthere did not appear to be solid view me on what I am sayingversion," said the nominee opposition to the nomination. this week," and the senator would have won Senate confirHeflin, a member of the Judiasked if that was the right way mation if the vote had been ciary Committee, said seven or for the panel to make its conheld Thursday. eight moderate-to-conservative firmation decision. 
Thomas' answers clearly exDemocrats who are not on the Republicans on the committee asperated Democrats who were panel told him they were leancame to his defense,. as did trying to get the nominee to ing toward supporting the President Bush who said at the state his views on controversial nomination. White House that Thomas was issues and to reconcile his tesThe full Senate won't vote on "doing a beautiful job uptimony during three days of Thomas' nomination until after there... hearings with what he had the committee takes action. Bush, asked at a news conwritten and said over the past While not saying how he ference about the credibility of decade. would vote, Heflin said that Thomas' claim not to have an 
"That's the most unartful 
Thomas "has given answers opinion on the landmark 1973~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
dodge I've ever heard," Thomas that would indicate he is more 
see THOMAS I page 4 

was told at one point by Sen. moderate in a lot of different 

Friday,September 13,1991
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Valuable lesson to be learned from vacations This is a story about two summer vacations that went awry and two dreams that should have never been realized. The first dream was mine. For my eleventh birthday, my grandmother took ~y sister and I to Barba@ Moran Disney World for a week. The Magic Kingdom soon Asst. Viewpoint lost its kick and I spent most of the vacation trying to convince Grandma to take us to Gatorland, a theme park filled with monstrous alligators chomping raw meat in steamy swamps. Grandma refused to make the trip. But her refusal prodded me into a vow-that I would someday return to Orlando and visit Gatorland. When my boyfriend and I trekked to Florida this past summer, I felt my quest near completion. I ran through the giant alligator jaws that marked the entrance and hurried to a pen to greet my gator pals. There they lay, happily basking in the summer glare. Then I noticed the sign: '"These alligators are two months old. When they reach six months, they will be slaughtered for their precious hides and tasty meat." Tourists smiled for pictures while holding baby alligators with duct-taped jaws. Kids munched on fried Gator Nuggets and watched the Gator Jumparoo -a fun event featuring starved alligators jumping at a dangling piece of meat which a clever trainer jerked out of reach just as jaws snapped over it. Grandma was a lot smarter than I had thOUilht. My dream shattered, I returned home despondent. But I did not have long to sulk before I was caught up in another quest, this one my Father's. Dad's dream was to have One Last Family Vacation. So the six of us packed into the minivan and headed for Quebec. Those of you who have never endured a famUy vacation can kneel down right now and praise whatever merciful God to which you pray. Four days in Quebec with my family nearly pushed me into hysteria. Here is a synopsis of the trip through quotes from our fearless leader and captain of the minivan, Dad: sure we'll all fit in one car." '"Yes, I know where I'm going." '"Get out the map and find out where the hell we are." '"Sure I speak French." '"Excuse me, do you speak English?" "I think you girls are a little young for beer." '"Let's each get a pitcher." Somehow we made it home with no homicides or suicides, and I returned having learned some valuable lessons: Never trust your parents. Always trust your Grandma. There is something wrong with people who eat Gator Nuggets while visiting a park for alligators. Quebecois are stereotyped as obnoxious for a reason. Vacation disasters and shattered dreams can become sources of amusement if you have the right attitude. Take things in stride: when life hands you Gator Nuggets, make Gatorade.  
Friday's taff: Production Etc. Kelly Lynch Shonda Wilson Peggy Crooks Meredith McCullough News Cristina Ortiz Paul Pearson Jeannie Shin Julie Barrett VIewpoint Sports Caroline Giannuzzi Mark McGrath Scoreboard Lab Tech Richard Mathurin Macy Hueckel Irish Extra Illustrations Kristin Costello Dave Devine Jake Fm..st.___________ The Observer (USPS 599 2000) 11 published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of lhe Associated Press. All reproduclion rights are reserved.  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
JOHANNESB 
RG, South Africa-Attackers sprayed a commuter bus with automatic gunfire Thursday, killing four people and bringing the toll in five days of black township violence to more than 120. The surge in violence threatens to cripple a new peace treaty even before it is signed Saturday. Representatives of the National Party of President F.W. de Klerk, along with the warring African National Congress and Inkatha Freedom Party, are to approve the accord. Previous pacts have couapsea m Dtooasnea, out tms wouic:i De the first signed by all of South Mrlca's three major political players. For that reason, it has been billed as an important step in ending violence that has killed thousands ot blacks and stalled talks toward ending white rule. 

 
EA LE LAKE, Texas-Federal investigators searched amid charred wreckage today for the flight recorders from a commuter plane that witnesses said went down after a fiery explosion blew ofT a wing. Flight 2574, taking 11 people and three crew members from Laredo to Houston's Intercontinental Airport, crashed about 10:30 a.m. Wednesday about 75 miles west of Houston, spewing wreckage over a four-mile stretch of southeast Texas farmland. The Brazilian-made Embraer120 had begun its descent to Houston's Intercontinental Airport when it disappeared from radar screens at an altitude of 11,800 feet, said officials. 


OF INTEREST 
LULAC 
will be sponsoring a mixer tonight at Theodore's from 9:30 p.m.-1 a.m. Come dance to the hottest Salsa, Merengue, Cumbia, Hip Hop, and Alternative music found under the Dome. 

An 
off campus engineers can pick up Industry Day Registration Forms in the Engineering Student Center, 217 Cushing Hall. 


More hi~h school seniors smoke now 
CAMPUS Art~ecture and tour held at Snite 
 
N TRE DAME, INThe Snite Museum of Art will host a public lecture and tour with Dean Porter, director of t~e Snite Museum and associate professor of art, art h1story and design, on Sunday. "Victor Higgins: Exhibition Recollections" will be held at 1:30 p.m. in the museum's Annenberg Auditorium. Porter will discuss artist Victor Higgins' life by examining several of the eighty paintings in the current exhibition, " Victor Higgins: An American Master," which closes Sunday. Porter also will give a noontalk about the exhibition on Tuesday, 12:10 to 12:55 p.m. in O'Shaughnessy Galleries. 

Knights 
of the Immaculata will have their first meeting Sunday at 3 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. All interested in learning more about St. Maximillian Kolbe's movement in honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary are invited. 

Alzheimer's 
Association is looking for Notre Dame student~ to participate in a 1Ok walkathon on Saturday, Sept. 29. Call Ron Severino at283-2180 to register. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 12 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 160.31 Million 211.21 -0r 0.21 
~BjllWi,1~~-::~..._s&P COMPOSITE
385.09 -t .53 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,007.83  20.80 

PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD.. $ 1.20 to $348.20/oz. 
SU.VER. 1 to $4.008/oz. 

ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY 
 
In 1857: Milton Hershey, founder of the candy empire that bears his name, was born in Dauphin County, Pa. 

 
In 1948: Republican Margaret Chase Smith of Maine was eJected to the U.S. Senate, becoming the first woman to serve in both houses of Congress. 

 
In 1971: 20 years ago, a four-day inmates' rebellion at the Attica Correctional Facility in upstate New.York ended as 


 police and guards stormed the facility. 
 Ten years ago: John McEnroe defeated Bjorn Borg to win the men's singles title at the U.S. Open tennis championships. 
-:......-............. ---贩-贩贩贩- .. --.......-..~-..................... -~ ...... ~ --- 贩
\-.. 贩.t.~.~ ..;~.u.u.r.u..t.u r.r' ''  't'',''',,,., ~ t 1, ~, ,, , ,  
Friday, September 13,1991 The Observer page 3 

The Observer/Garr Schwanz 
Let's dance 
An instructor points out the next step to students in Stepan who are learning the techniques of ballroom dancing. 
Back to Cool 
When Thste Matters 
Make the creamy, delicious taste of Colombo Frozen Yogurt part of your curriculum. 

贩.ct4~ 
'~~ 
___::::;:;::::;-------
.5

YOGIS YOGURT E 
E 
8 0 


BUYONELARGECOLOMBU 
GET ONESMALL FOR FREE. 
Not valid with any other promotional offer. Limit one per customer . 
No expiration date Coupon redeemable only at: 
Yogis Yogurt 17911 State Rd. 23 (across from old Martin's) 
---------------------
"Yogis Yogurt" is offering student discount cards good for 15% discount on all purchases. To get your card, stop by the store location listed below. 
(Across from old Martin's) and 1st Source Bank 17911 State Rd. 23 NE Corner. Ironwood 
277-4337 
We deliver Mon., Tues., Thurs. 
I I I I . I I I I I 



Shuttle begins ozone mission 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Space shuttle Discovery bolted into orbit Thursday evening with five astronauts and an observatory designed to scrutinize the alarming shrinkage of Earth's ozone layer. 
Discovery thundered away from its seaside pad at 7:11 
p.m. EDT, flames spewing from its twin booster rockets. The 100-ton spaceship pierced a hazy sky as it darted out over the Atlantic Ocean and up the East Coast. 
"It's the moment we've been waiting for;" said Don Wuebbles, an atmospheric scientist who has been working on the project for 13 years. ..After 13 years, how can I put it in words?" 
The shuttle's solid rocket boosters dropped empty into the ocean as planned two minutes into the flight. The ship reached orbit 6 1/2 minutes later on the thrust of three main engines. 
Scientists watched breathlessly from Kennedy Space Center as Discovery sped out of sight with the first craft to be launched in NASA's Mission to Planet Earth, a decades-long probe of the environment from space. 
"We're at a point in human history where we can affect the global environment, and we shouldn't fly blind on that," NASA's chief scientist Lennard Fisk said. 
The unusual hours -an evening liftoff and the first night landing at Kennedy on Wednesday -are required for the precisely timed release of the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite midway through the five-day flight. 
Shuttle commander John Creighton and his crew had been working at night for months in preparation for the mission, shuttle flight No. 43. They awoke for the launch Thursday afternoon; Friday's bedtime was, as usual, at dawn. 
People along the Eastern seaboard, especially in the South, had a rare opportunity to see the ascending spaceship. Discovery's course upon liftoff was up the East Coast as far as Cape Hatteras, N.C., where the shuttle arced sharply out over the Atlantic on its way to a 336mile-high orbit. 
Sesquicentennial celebration kicks off 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
News Writer 
The year-long celebration of Notre Dame's sesquicentennial anniversary will start out with a bang with opening festivities this weekend. The opening Mass of the school year will be held at the J.A.C. C. Sunday at 5 p.m. A video presentation during the Mass will highlight the history of the university, according to Kristin McCarthy, an active member of the opening events committee. The mass will be followed by a 
picnic and carnival at Cartier 
Field at 6:15p.m., she said. The carnival will feature children's rides, game booths, a moonwalk, and music from The Clutch, a student band. Fireworks will go off at dusk to conclude the opening events. All students, administrators, faculty, and their families are invited to take part in the festivities. McCarthy, a senior, hopes that, "a family 


-BIBLE REVIVAL -
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* *C. B. S. 
Inter Faith Bible Study Tuesday, September 17, 1991 and every Tuesday 
Meetings: 7:00 P.M. one hour sessions (bring your own Bible) zn the Conference Roon1 of Catnpus Ministry Badin Hall 
Directed by: Fr. AI D'Alonzo, c.s.c. For additional information call: 239-6633 or 239-5955 

All are invited to attend 

atmosphere will bring everyone 
together, just as Father Sorin 
brought the community 
together" when he founded the 
university in 1842. 
McCarthy said that the sesquicentennial committee, which was formed almost three years ago, has put a great deal of time and effort into planning the celebration. At least 100 students and administrators are now involved. "It's amazing," she said, "students just don't know how much work has been done for the celebration." 
The committee has planned more activities for the coming academic year and next summer to commemorate the anniversary. Some of the scheduled events include a homecoming dance and parade on the weekend of the Navy game and a national Catholic conference of bishops this 
summer. 





The entire University community is invited to the formal opening of the Sesquicentennial and the academic year with an academic procession and Mass at 5 p.m. in the joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Following the Mass there will be apicnic in Cartier Field, east of the]ACC, which will include live entertainment, games of chance, rides for young children and afireworks display at dusk. 
" 
.,'l 
" 
ti 
The Observer/Garr Schwartz 
Posters for sale 

A wide variety of posters and prints have been sold this week on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Today 
is the last day to buy them. 

Assaults 
continued from page 1 

f 
according to Chlebek. 

"We will be adding an extra officer to cover the area on foot in addition to the mobile security unit," he explained. 
"Our regular afternoon security shift, which extends until 
2:00 a.m., includes three to four on-duty patrolmen," Chlebek added. 
Security is encouraging students to take caution and make use of the campus escort services. 
0 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHIP! 
YOUR STILL A SAC 
From, Meat & Big D 


N I N G M A s 
continued from page 1 

court decision legalizing abortion, said simply, "That's a question for the Senate to decide." 
Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, complained that Thomas had been asked about abortion 70 times, compared to the 36 questions about the issue that were asked last year at David 
~************************************ 
PUT ON SOMETHING COMFORTABLE AND STEP INTO : 
s ~ 
SPORTS RI!STAURANT LOUNGI! 
... 

.----------...
 

FRIDAY-SATURDAY :
:PRI!! POPCORN 
SEPT 13 & 14 
 

:SATI!UJTI! SPORTS WAY PAST TENSE: 
:FIVE T.V.1 TO WATCH : : THE GAMI! : :BASKETBALl. SHOOT ! :FIVE DART BOARDS : :PIZZAS FROM SCRATCH : 
:ofS0\'9~ 1!~1M~lU\~ ~J'll!~TITI'~\00011~00? ! :EVERY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHT ! 
:CONVENIENTLY LOCATED JUST ! : OFP CAMPUS : 
: Located In University Lanes -1602 N.lronwood-233-BOWL:


贩贩贩贩贩贩贩贩贩贩贩贩贩*********** 




'l f   . .,.t., -'~:..J-=--" . c-r . :'. 
Friday, 'Septeniber.13, 1991 
Souter's confirmation hearing. Souter was confirmed despite his refusal to answer such questions. 
"I don't understand why you are being treated any differently than these other confirmable people," Hatch said. 
A federal appeals judge since last year, Thomas, 43, was nominated this summer to replace resigning Justice Thurgood Marshall. Both men are black, but Thomas has a strongly conservative record 
Masses in the main church are cancelled on Sunday, September 15. 
f 
_Friday, September 13,.1991 
The Observer page 5 



Yugoslavian defense minister refuses call for army withdrawl 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Yugoslavia's defense minister rejected on Thursday the president's calls for the army to pull back in Croatia, and two Croatians resigned from the federal Cabinet out of frustration that the ethnic bloodshed continued. 
The squabbling among leaders of the crumbling federation came amid new violations of a Sept. 2 cease-fire between Serbs and Croats in the secessionist republic. 
The Tanjug news agency reported that Croatian forces gave up the strategic town of Kostajnica to Serb insurgents after days of heavy fighting. Tanjug and Croatia's Defense Ministry said 12 Croats died Thursday trying to hold the town 50 miles southeast of Zagreb, the Croatian capital. 
HAPPY 21st 


Love, Mom, Dad & Peanuts 

Learn to create your own omelet 
Howard Helmer tells the incredible edible egg story for the American Egg Board with whimsical and informative demonstrations of egg cooking techniques. Although his presentations are light-hearted, Helmer is a heavy-weight in egg preparation. In 1990 he officially broke the Gujness Book world record for the second time by preparing 427 omelets in 30 minutes. 
Although Helmer's flash-in-the pan cooking methods and unorthodox style of instruction might not follow the rules of classical cuisine, they do make instant egg experts out of everyone he teaches. He has been enthusiastically received by professional culinary groups, international chef societies as well as restaurant and retail grocer associations throughout the world. 
Brunch on Saturday, Sept. 28 atNDH Sunday, Sept. 29 at SDH 10:00 am Sharp 


Open to students, faculty, and staff. Student on Notre Dame board plan need their 1.0. The cost for all others is $5.50. Registration is on a first-come, first-serve basis -limit of 200 people each day. 
Pre-register in the dining halls from 4:45
6:45 pm or call 239-8339. Registration ends Thursda . 26. 
Eleven others were reported killed elsewhere in Croatia overnight. 
In other developments: 
 
Ethnic Serbs in central state of Bosnia-Hercegovina Thursday joined their countrymen in Krajina, a section of Croatia, in proclaiming autonomy, raising fears of ethnic violence in the mixed republic. 

 
In Zagreb, officials said a Yugoslav military helicopter carrying European Community envoy Henry Wijnaendts and senior Croatian and army officials was fired upon by Croatian forces as it approached Okucani on Wednesday. No one was hurt. 


The fighting pits Croatian forces against Serbian rebels opposed to seceding from Yugoslavia. It has claimed over 400 lives since Croatia declared independence June 25. 
Croatia accuses Serbia of instigating the fighting to seize territory, but Serbia says Croatia cannot leave the Balkan federation while keeping territory dominated by Serbs. Serbs make up 12 percent of Croatia's 
4.75 million people. 
The Observer/Garr Schwartz 

Get in there 
Students from Flanner and Cavanaugh Halls scramble for the ball during a soccer scrimage between the two dorms. 

Cease-fire declared in Philippines 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) Communist rebels declared a national cease-fire Thursdav. and support grew in the Senate to give the U.S. Navy up to three years to leave its base, whose lease expires next week. 
President Corazon Aquino was said to be considering the phaseout plan after failing to persuade senators to ratify a new lease for Subic Bay naval base. The current lease expires Monday and 12 of the 23 senators oppose an extension. 
Under the proposal, the Americans would pay no rent during the withdrawal. Afterward, they could be allowed limited access to Subic on a commercial basis. 
The rebel National Democratic Front said an indefinite, unilateral cease-fire went into effect at midnight Wednesday after it appeared the Senate would reject the base agreement. 
The agreement, forged during 14 months of talks, called for the Americans to give up volcano-damaged Clark Air Base next year but keep Subic for 10 more years in return for $203 million in annual aid. 
"We urge the members of the Senate to hold firmly onto their patriotic stand to categorically reject the draft bases treaty and leave no ground for any other entity to allow the retention of the U.S. bases," the rebels said. 
The compromise was suggested by newspaper publisher Teodoro Locsin, Aquino's former speechwriter and adviser. Sen. Rene Saguisag, a former Aquino spokesman and bases opponent, said he discussed the plan with the president during a luncheon Thursday and she agreed to consider it. 
"She's resigned. Everybody I know is resigned to the defeat of the (bases) treaty," Saguisag said. "The president has accepted that no one is moving among the 12 senators." 
SINCE 1949 

Great Brands, Great Sarvtca, Great Prlca, Rantala 
AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTALS 
Mon -Thur Elkhart 11-7 pm South Bend 
Ffi<tf!f11 Fri 11-6 pm IJ=I=liIf
220 W. Marion Sat 10-4 pm 439 S. Michigan 
SPECIALISTS IN GUITAR & BASS REPAIRS/ 
"YO! CHIP!" 
Happy two-one to 贩贩 Number one 
Love, Mom, Dad, Sean, Ryan & Max 
n 




pages Friday, September 13, 1991
The Observer 

I~ 
I\
~.~~ 
~-. 
~ 
:! 
)i
,! 
r 
( 

SECURITY BEAT 
Sunday, Septemb~r 8 

12:01 a.m. A Fla.nner Hall resident reported that his window had been broken while he was away from his room. 
12 : 21 a  m. A Flamer Hall resident reported he lost his season football tickets. 
4: 18 a.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported his locked. bicycle was stolen ftom the D-2 pirltiBJ kt. . 
5;35 a .. m.. A 1/i$itor to the Uni.versity l:eported that hh license plate hadbeen. stolen fran his whlcle llbile it was贩 parked in the B-1 parkinq lot during saturdaY's football game. 
3:58 p.m. Notx:e Dame 
'tue$d.ay, September 10 Security/Police. transported.~ 6:07 a.m. Notre. Dame . .. i.nju~ . Graoe Hall .tesident to ~ity/Poli<:e cited a South 
Saint Jo.seph~s Emergency Room. The victim had suffe.ted a heaQ. injury fran a bicycle accident. 
Monday, September 9 . 
10:46 a.m. A visitor to the 

 Uni.versity niported that hi' 
贩 radar detector and radio had been stolen fran his whicle ..trile it. was parked in Blue f~eld  during saturdaY's foo~ll ganei< 
ll:11 a.m. Notx:~ Dame security/PoliCe respon<fed to (1. 
I..WI;r"VCIIXC accident 
:i:nfu~l"f'liE'Mi6n of ~.'!lUll 1!1~:lii~~~~gt~~~~t1~~~~~~~~~
:St.Jl~t,.. . No ~~J~贩~;~. ~~JJ~ 


MARIGOLD MARKET 

lET US PREPARE YOUR TAil.bATE PICNIC. SO YOU CAN ENJOy THE GAJv1 E! 
G~E. ;clEVELAND 2721922 
student reported she lost her c..l parkirq d:!cal. 
3~ 00 p.m. Notre Dame security/Police tl!sponded to a two-car accident on Juniper Road. No injuries were 
..teported. 
.~-()S p ~m . A Siegfried Hall wsident reported the theft of her bookbag frorn the hallway of 
her dorm.   
3:29 p.m. A University 

errployee reported the theft of  three flag$ from the greens on . the Notre D~ Golf Course. .  '''4:49 p.m. A stanford Hall . 
~iden.t reported the. theft of his unlocked b.i,cycl~ from outside of his dorm. 
Sen(.i resident for travelling 5$ MPH in a 30 MPH zone on Edison 
Road.. . . . 
8;45 a.m. Notre Dame sect.itlty/Pol.ice .responded to a repOrt of indecent exposure on  tile.. path.. near Moreau Seminary.   s)JSpects were fo\ll'ld. 
:52 a.m. A Badin Hall t:es.i<:1et'tt repprtedthe theft of . stU:;Ient idem:.ificat.:t.On catd Roc.koo Memor.ial.. 
resident reported the theft of her showing bag~ which contained. .se~ral book$, from the SOJth O.ining Hall 
5:49 p~tu Nqtre Dame 
Security/Police responded to a :repOrt of a susp.!Ct sol.iQitir} magazine SUbscriptions in Flanner Hall. '!'he贩 suspec:t was fourd and tol<i tq4 lea<Je oanp.lS.  
6:~8 p;..m~ ~9\:;re D~ 
Security/i1oliceilfld Notr;eOame Fire responded t;4 a tepott of an injured st:udenl: at the R9Ckne 
~rial.. An officer> .......贩 ...  t;ra.nspdrted  the_ :Jt~t ~o the stu:Ient. He.tl~h c~nter. 
11. ;3Q pm~ A~~,dssey . Hall resiaent reported the theft of his bicycle .frt:rn the t>i.ke taCk in .front .of hi$ cbrm~ 
Wednesdat~ SeptE!mber ll 
1:20 a.. m.A Notre> Dame 
student repel,'teq t:he theft of his 
. car ate.tea ft'q!\ hi$ vehi<;le while. :tt .~as p:trk~ in.the B-J... 
pa:t;kitq :tot ihe .. window had 
1:53 a. ..A tJI'\lversitv 
fa<;l,llty ~moor rPTV\rlrP<i 
贩lost hr ,a.;; 
9:20 a 
'"Jrent<:;J.~sJ:~ 
A MEMORIAL
TO THE 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
SOCIE1Y 
WILL HELP 
IN THE (I"'
CONQUEST ~ 
OFCANCER.f 

Art exhibition to debut 
Special to The Observer 

Georges Rouault: The Graphic Works" will open Sunday at the Snite Museum of Art. The 40 works will be on exhibit in the print, drawing and photography gallery through Dec. 29. The French artist Rouault (1872 -1958) was essentially solitary in his art and often associated with the Fauve (wild 
Beast) movement, according to 
Rev. James F. Flanigan, C.S.C., associate professor of art, art history and design and curator of the Mestrovic collection at the Snite. The exhibition features lithographs, wood engravings and aquatints that include a selection from "Miserere," "Les Reincarnations dePere Ubu," "Les Fleurs du Mal" and "Le Cirque de l'Etiole Filante." The artist's prints express his deep spirituality, says Flanigan, 
Claire Konopa 
MVB says "Red" was never 

贩~ your color. 
and "Miserere" is considered to 
be one of the most important 
statements ever made about 
man's inhumanity to man. 

Rouault's works have earned 
him a position as one of the 
leading masters of the graphic 
arts in the early 20th century, 
Flanigan adds. 

In conjunction with the exhibi
tion, a noontalk, entitled 
..Georges Rouault: Outlined in 
Black," will be presented by 
John Shields, Snite Museum ed
ucation coordinator, on Tues
day, Oct. 29, from 12:10-12:55 
p.m. in the paint, drawing and photography gallery. The talk is free and open to the public. The Snite Museum is open Tuesday to Friday 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Sunday 1 to 4 p.m. and Thursday 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. when classes are in session. It is closed Monday. Admission is free. 
Happy 20th 

-----------.. 
--~--------------~---.------------------~--------------_,~---------~--~~------------------------------------~----
Friday, September 13, 1991 The Observer page7 
Soviet government promises radical economic reforms 

: At last! =~===================~:..._________, 
MOSCOW (AP) The restructured government of Mikhail Gorbachev reasserted its authority at home and abroad Thursday by promising radical reforms in a new economic union and demanding reciprocal U.S. withdrawal from Cuba. 
Foreign Minister Boris Pankin said Soviet officials want the United States to match a 
Photo exhibit to open at Snite Museum 
Special to The Observer 
South Bend photographer Steve Moriarty's newest exhibit on El Salvador will open Sept. 29 at the Suite Museum of Art and continue through Nov. 24. The museum will also host a reception for the artist on Sunday, Sept. 29 from 2 to 4 p.m. in the atrium. 
The 40 recent black and white photographs expose the faces and the stories of a cross-section of Salvadoran society. They include photos of refugees, guerillas, union organizers, 
The gift that gives hope 

ELED MAJORS MEETING 
MANDATORY 
FOR ALL CURRENT 8 NEW STUDENTS OF THE DEPARTMENT 
TOESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17 
6:30 -8:00 PM SMC SCIENCE BLDG ROOM 105 SAINT MARY'S 
: ~ : : NOW _$34.95 : 
i "Irish Forever"  ~ 

 

 
~ &MLXLXAL  

 &irt. is White with Green &t.ri~ 
TaooiSPrioe
Sl8o
QuodiJ 





 
 

 

Taooll!..
S

 


: 0 Coo 0 w-yOrdw 0 'VIola 0 w..rc.d :  0-"-0 o;..,-GarrisonMcQueen Imports, Ltd.  
 ~ a.p..-__ P.O. Box 928 e : N-Notre Dame, IN 46556 : 
 .u.... OR CALL:   
: ~.......u ...,.rN...w...u..,.~.-~ua... (219) 291-6394 : 
presidents and priests. Some of the subjects are dead, and others have disappeared since the photos were taken. 
El Salvador has endured 14 years of civil war, which has killed 70,000 and displaced one million people. 
Moriarty, a freelance photographer and adjunct assistant professor at Notre Dame, graduated from the University in 1969 and received a master's degree in fme arts in 1980. He has visited El Salvador seven times since 1985. 
Moriarty's photographs and their captions are designed to 
The Honor Gift from the 
planned Soviet troop withdrawal from Cuba by removing U.S. servicemen from Guantanamo Bay and halting maneuvers in the region. 
The Kremlin moved to consolidate its authority as Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia solidified their independence from the Soviet Union by winning Security Council endorsement of their admission to the United Nations. 
The General Assembly is expected to admit the three Baltic states next week. 
But other republics were still struggling Thursday, three weeks after a hard-line coup collapsed and spawned an independence rush that left Soviet President Gorbachev with limited power over the economy and foreign policy. 
convey the violence and tragedy of El Salvador's civil war. The exhibit's themes include: 
 
"People of Power"-portraits and descriptions of Salvadoran military, government and rebel leaders. 

 
"The Displaced People and Their Culture"-depictions of life and struggle of individuals among the one million "desplezados," the people fleeing violence within the country's borders. 

 
"Victims of Violence"-the physically wounded, insane and grief-stricken. 

 
"The Church of the Poor"the embattled believers who revere the martyred Archbishop Oscar Romero and hope for a better future. 

 
"Hope for the Future"-a study of the village of Santa Cruz, a community of war refugees struggling to survive and rebuild. 


For more information contact the museum at 239-5466. 
Hispanic American Organization 
Big/Little Brother/Sister Volleyball Tournament and Picnic 
Saturday, September 14 10-2 pm Holy Cross Hill 
All new and old members invited 
Foes of Georgian President Zviad Gamsakhurdia intensified their criticism, accusing him of suppressing opposition in the southern republic and pledging not to let up until his government crumbles. 
Political instability in various republics complicated efforts by economists and politicians to forge a workable economic confederation in place of the 
Rugby anyone 
The rugby club convenes for a little fun and games. The team is just one of the many REC sports offered to students. 
We invite you to attend 
First United Methodist Church 333 N. Main St, South Bend (comer of Main & Madison) With parking available behind the church 
8:45 am INFORMAL CEI EBRATION SERVICE 11:00 am TRADITIONAL SERVICE 9:45 am Sunday School for all ages Coffee and cookies served between services 
Dr. Allan Byrne, Senior Pastor Tim Robison, Music Dlrector/Organl8t Cindy Solum, Chrisdan Educadon Director 
deteriorating union. 
Ivan Silayev, chairman of the new Soviet economic commission, told reporters a draft plan for creating a market system should be ready before October. He said it will detail plans for economic cooperation between the West and the republics that stay in the loose economic union. 
He also said his commission 
The Observer/Garr Schwartz 

Hostages 
continued from page 1 
Hamadi and Abbas Hamadi, jailed in Germany since 1987. 
Mohammed Ali Hamadi is serving a life sentence for the hijacking of the TWA jet to Lebanon in 1985, in which a 
U.S. Navy diver was killed. Abbas Hamadi was sentenced in 1988 to 13 years in prison for kidnapping. 
The Hamadis have previously emerged as a stumbling block since they were convicted of crimes, unlike most of the Shiite prisoners held by Israel. 
Germany has maintained that the Hamadi brothers were legally tried and sentenced for terrorist activities and their release cannot be brokered. Perez de Cuellar has made similar statements. 
Please support. 
+
American 
Red CI'OIIB 

: Mail ordu onlJ-f'Oi available rhrough w book.slore. 100% moneybad: guaranJu.  We promise a warm welcome to 
==L----!A~rs~t~U~n~i~te~d~M~e~t~h~od~l~s~t~C~h~urc~h~.------~N~ee~d~~~~~r~ta~d=o~n~?~--C~~~~I~2~~~~9~46~3.______. 

贩' 
'i 
I 
f 
~ ~ 
;I
'I 


Friday, September 13, 1991 . The Observer page 9 
Study predicts one-third of public school students will be minorities by 1995 
NEW YORK (AP) -A firstever forecast of the ethnic makeup of public schools predicts that a third of U.S. students will be from minorities by 1995, and such students will make up a majority of high school graduates in four states. 
The study, released Thursday by The College Board and the Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education, also stressed that some of the fastest growing groups, 
AT AZARIS 
Now that you've danced 


the night away, you need to satisfy those midnight 
munchies. So check out the new LATE NITE menu at Azars. 

It features lots of great food at great prices: 
 Rve Fluffy Omelettes 
 
Six Moonlight Breakfasts 

 
Four Starlight Sandwiches 

 
Eight Dreamy Desserts 

 
More than 10 other Sides and Beverages 


The next time you:re not quite '"'"''"._ to call nanight, head to the nearest Azar's Big Boy Family 
Restaurant for the all-
new LATE NITE menu. It'll tame the Midnight Munchies. 
Af"l!. BigBoy 
Family Restaurants 


Hispanics especially, are most likely to drop out. 
The report, "The Road to College: Educational Progress by Race and Ethnicity," predicted the non-white and Hispanic student population will increase from 10.4 million in 1985-86 to a projected 13.7 million in 1994-95. 
Such pupils will constitute 34 percent of public elementary and secondary school enrollment by 1994-95, up from 29 percent in 1985-86, according to the study. 
White enrollment, meanwhile, will rise by just 5 percent, from 
25.8 million to 27 million, and their share of the student population will drop from 71 percent in 1985-86 to 66 percent in 1994-95. 
Non-whites and Hispanics already make up a majority of high school graduates in Hawaii, New Mexico and the District of Columbia in 1989. By 1994, California and Mississippi will join that group, according to the study. 
While the report contained 

..... . .. . . .. . . . .... . . . . . . ----------------------
few surprises, its sponsors said it underscored the urgency for more effective minority dropout prevention programs through college, and for more generous financial aid programs. 
"Now, more than ever, equal educational opportunity for all students must be our nation's number one priority," said Donald Stewart, the College Board's president. 
"For the first time, officials can pinpoint the patterns of of the increasingly multicultural student body and then make plans to better educate underserved -. racial and ethnic groups," said Robin Etter Zuniga, the study's author. 
William Honig, head of public instruction in California, which had more minority graduates than any state in 1989, said states with rapidly growing minority student bodies need to keep standards high and be sensitive to all cultures. But he said educators should resist demands to "junk" traditional coursework in favor of mainly non-Western culture. 
THlfRSDAY 1\D FRIDAY Sl~PD:lmEJt 12 i\Nn 13 
ARIEL  

 

 
8:10p.m. ~ 
 Washington Hall : 


Tirkets: $8 Students/$10 Non-Students  available at the :  LaFortune Center Box Office  
: Ariel is a taknteu Russian Pop Pianist who has enamored audiences  
 around the country. His performances incorporate native Russian   stories with contemporary, trauitional and original piano pieces.  : A U.S. citizen for five vears, Ariel has followed his dream to bring  
The Observer/Garr Schwartz 

Moving right along 
While the weather is nice, many people on campus opt to bike to their various destinations rather than walk. Bike racks are located around most of the buildings on campus. 
WELCOME STUDENTS 
Hotne of the Kicker Gir--~........ 
Darts . Pool . Foosball . Pinball and 5 TV Screens 

the magic and wonder of the piano to America.
:..................................: ..___...__________________ 
Great Food!  Dedicated to fun  
and good times  
THE HOTTEST C.D   

JUKE BOX IN TOWN 321 Dixieway North, South Bend
Now 

hiring US 33 Just_North of N.D. 
272 7818 
David Barnard '91 (NO) Mary Ann Cenedella '91 (NO) Scott Esposito '89 (ND) Jim Fitzgerald '91 (NO) Ursula Garzia '91 (SMC) Simon Herbert '91 (ND) 
BAXTER 
COME JOIN OUR TEA~ 
Mary Kay (Fanning) Ladone '88 (NO) Lou Mayle '88 (NO) 
Kathy (Baker) Miller '88 (ND) 
Scott Miller '90 (ND) 
Jim Post '89 (ND) 

Jennifer Racine '91 (SMC) 
Amy Raczkowski '91 (ND) John Souter '88 (NO) Dana Tognl '89 (NO) Jill Tomko '89 (SMC) Guy Welsmantel '90 (ND) Dan Walsh '89 (ND) 
We have careers in: Accounting/Finance, Sales/Marketing, Operations and Information Systems. For more infonnation please attend one of the following events. Don't forget to sign up for interviews through Car~r &Placement. 
* Finance Club Meet the Finns Night Tuesday, September 17, 6:00-8:30 p.m. 
*career & Placement Kick-Off for Arts and Letters Tuesday, September 17, 7:00-9:00 p.m. 
* 
career Fair Sponsered by Joint Engineering Council & Society of Women Engineers Wednesday, September 25, 11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. 

* 
Meet Baxter Night Sponsered by Baxter Healthcare Corporation Monday, October 28,7:00-9:00 p.m. 


~ 
~ 
t 
f r 
il
I 
~ 
' 
~ 
i
 
~ 
' 
' 
r 
I 
:,
: 
' 
' 
I ' 
I 
,j 
i 
\ 
' 
) ( 
:iI 
1.1 
:l 
\.. 
I 
I 
i 
ABBOTT LABORATORIES 
ADD YOUR SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE TO A GROWING PROFESSION. 
Abbott Laboratories is looking for recent college graduates who are thinking seriously about their futures. We're a worldwide leader in the health care products industry, and right now our Pharmaceutical Products Div1sion has excellent opportunities in the new and growing profession of Clinical Data Management. 
RESEARCH DATA TECHNICIAN 
This entry-level person will be a member of the group which provides data management support for all clinical studies Aobott is conducting on investigational new drugs. The Research Data Technician is an integral part ofan interdisciplinary clinical project team consisting of data management, rrogramming, statistics and medical professionafs. The responsibilities of this position include designing/developing case report forms on which all data are collected, designing/developing data bases using our clinical trials data base management system and assuring the quality and accuracy of all data collected. 
A BS degree in a scientific field is required (biology, medical technology, nursing, etc.). Above average academic performance is essential. Some limited computer experience is expected. 
Information Session Wednesday, September 25th-St. Mary's College Haggar Hall, Rm. 303 6pm to 7pm. 
Campus Interviews 
Monday, September 30th-Notre Dame Tuesday, October 1st-St. Mary's College 
Please contact the Career Placement Office for additional information. 
We are located 30 miles north of Chicago. If unable to attend, please send your resume and transcript to: Corporate Placement, Dept. SCS, Abbott Laboratories, One Abbott Park Rd., Abbott Park, IL 60064. 
Abbott is an Affirmative Action Employer/Smoke-Free Environment. 
ABBOTT LABORATORIES 
Quality Health Care Worldwide 
1888-1881 


_,______.______~~-----...---....---...-----------------------------------~--1 
Viewpoint 
Friday, September 13, 1991 Page 11 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News EdHor .................. Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ................. .Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor ................... .John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willen Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
SMC policy 
hurts students 
The two attacks at Saint Mary's this week emphasize the growing concern for student safety in the area. These incidents, added to recent reports of violence in off-campus neighborhoods, should be viewed by students on both campuses as serious examples of what can, and is, occurring in their community. 
The attacks at Saint Mary's, however, illustrate an even greater 
concern for students: that of receiving complete and timely infor
mation from College officials. 
When a Saint Mary's student was assaulted Monday evening 
around 8:15 p.m., it took an anonymous tip to The Observer to get 
even a brief notification of the incident from the College, two hours 
later. 
Saint Mary's refusal to issue an immediate report on the 
incident left students speculating about the nature of the attack, 
while rumors of a "slasher" circulated through both campuses the 
following day. 
When a second attack was reported Wednesday night at virtually the same time, campus media was again snubbed by officials at Saint Mary's. 
This time, the tip came after midnight, and calls placed to security yielded only an invitation to contact the director of College Communications at her home for confirmation of the incident. 
In both cases, Saint Mary's policy for releasing information regarding major security incidents was in error. In both cases, had it not been for the tips and persistence of campus media to get the valuable information to the student bodies, the incidents might have gone unreported, thus jeopardizing student safety even more. When such incidents occur at Notre Dame, Security alerts campus media immediately, day or night. The relationship is one of trust, with Security realizing the vital need for a timely report and the media realizing that it has the responsibility to inform the student bodies. 
Such is not the case at Saint Mary's. 
A confusing relationship exists between Saint Mary's security and the Office of College Communications. While security handles each incident, no information can be released through their department. All reports must come from College Communications, which like most offices, closes at 5 p.m., thereby eliminating the possibility of a timely press release. 
If Saint Mary's has the interests and protection of its students in mind, a clearer method of releasing security information should be investigated. 
The bottom line remains that students need to be informed of situations which threaten their safety and everyday lives. This is responsibility, responsibility of a College that claims to place student safety as its top priority. 
With the events of this week, can Saint Mary's students feel confident that this is the case? 
DOONESBURY 
$ON, I 7HINK ITS 7/M~ 7HA-rt3 RIGHT. 50\1, , FOR 'tWANPMe 7lJ HAVFJ COir1?3 A TIMe FOR PVff/?'101/W A U77U3 TAU<. ABafT I{JH8N He HAS 70 TAX& R?3fa.I9GI?IJ/AJING IJP,.. 81U1Y FORH/M5fJtl7 UJH&N He HA5 7[) 5I.JO<. INH/5 6UT 
lv-~"' / 
IJN[) (7'ON I(J/7H UFe/ 
7HAT~90
7R1Je,mo.'
\ 

The following is an open letter to South Bend Mayor Joseph Kernan. 
Dear Mayor Kernan: 
When in the course of police work it becomes apparent that that a police force has become so embittered that it can no longer effectively conduct its duties in a humane and professional manner, then that police force should be forced to change or be run out of town. 
History is full of such abuses. Perhaps history's most recent and powerful example would be the events in the USSR where the people decided no longer to be subjected to the terror of a police state. 
Unfortunately, a police state now seems to exist in South Bend. The police force seems to be so embittered by what some perceive to be the affiuence and privilege of the Notre Dame students that the officers can no longer conduct themselves professionally, and the students are forced to live with the consequences of a mini-police state. 
There are many reasons why this is intolerable: First , and most importantly,it represents a terrible abuse of power and authority. 
Second, it flies in the face of history. Innocent citizens (represented by the students) will win out-they always do. 
Third, many of these kids are no more privileged than their police oppressors, having to scrape together everything they and their parents have (or can borrow) to pursue their education. 
And fourth, their "crimes" (if and when they are committed) are rather petty in nature over-drinking, underage drinking, too noisy etc., compared to the real crimes in South Bend, of drugs, rape, assault, robbery and yes,even murder which get proportionately less attention than the students' minor offences. 
One would think they'd have more to do than arrest 20 and 21 year old citizens just to show the world how tough they are. 
What we're really talking about here is "TURF." These (perhaps few) Neanderthal officers feel they must show these "overeducated big shot college kids" who's boss and if Due Process, and Human Rights get in the way, too bad. 
Well Mr. Mayor, I'm afraid it doesn't quite work that way. We are a people of laws and when Due Process and human rights are ignored or abused, all of us are injured and all kinds of will be asked to come to the aid of the college kids. 
One might expect appeals to 60 Minutes, the ACLU, columnists from all over the country, the Civil Rights Commission, net work news teams, etc. One could go on but the point should be obvious that the students are not without their supporters and their supporters are not without their CLOUT. 
The nastier the officers get, the more support the students will get. South Bend would be the focus of more attention than you can afford. 
Weed out these bad apples while you can. If you don't know who they are, ask the students or read over the records of "dropped charges" in the past few years. Most are "public intoxication and disorderly conduct" charges; the common cry of the ignorant or untrained officer. Do it now while it is still your choice. 
If this problem continues to be out of control events beyond your control will correct this problem and you 
may  become  part of  the  
solution.  
ISACS  

Irate Supporters of Abused College Students 
Sept. 12, 1991 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE Of THE DAY 
'Throw out your gold teeth and see how they roll. The answer they reveal-life is unreal.' 
Steely Dan 

submit to: QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

\ 1 
~ 


~ 

![
~~il 
~~e 
~===~:::: 

J 
I t~ 

By ELIZABETH COSTELLO 
Accent Wnter 

tudents travelling to the University of Michigan tonight to cheer Notre Dame to victory may be worried about which bars and night clubs are the hot spots. 
Over night accommodations may also be necessary concerns. First, though, you've got to get to the University. 
So ... from Notre Dame take the Toll Road (1-90) to 1-69 heading north. Take I-69 to I94 towards DetroiVAnn Arbor. 
Turn left taking the Saline Ann Arbor exit. This road curves onto Main St. Follow Main St. for a half mile (about 5 lights) and you will see the stadium on the corner of Main St. and Stadium Blvd. 
Once you get there, don't worry, you don't need a friend or long lost acquaintance to impose upon to find a place to sleep -the list of hotels ranges from the Bell Tower Hotel (expensive) to the Knight's Inn (cheap). 
If being close to the University in downtown Ann Arbor is an important factor in choosing your resting spot for the night, you might want to check out the following: 
Embassy Hotel, located at 220 E. Huron St. Prices range from $30-$45, Call 313662-7100 for reservations or information. Remember that hotels close to the school might be hard to book at the last minute. 
Bell Towe-r Hotel, located at 300 S. Thayer St. A little more expensive with prices from $70-$100. Call313-769-3010. 


Regency Campus Inn, located at 615 E. Huron St. Prices range from $70-$100 as well. Facilities include a jacuzzi/sauna, outdoor pool and exercise equipment. Call 313-769-2200. 
If your wallet won't allow the Bell Tower or the Regency, within ten minutes of campus, ranging from $30-$45, are: 
Best Western Wolverine Inn, located at 3505 S. State St. Inn provides a jacuzzVsauna. Call 313-665-3500. 
Knight's Inn, located at 3764 S. State St. Outdoor pool included in price. Call 313665-9900. 
Lamp Post Inn, located at 2424 Stadium Blvd. Also provides an outdoor pool. Call 313-971-8000. 
Red Arrow Motel, located at 55 7 7 Plymouth Rd. Call313-682-9944. Red Roof Inn, located at 3621 Plymouth Rd. Call 313-998-5600. 
With a little more cash and a lot less beer, one can spend the night just ten minutes from campus for $45-$70 at: 
Comfort Inn, located at 2455 Carpenter Rd. Jacuzzi/sauna and indoor pool included in price. Call 313-973-6100. 
Days Inn, located at 3285 Boardwalk. Also provides jacuzzi/sauna and indoor pool. Call313-995-5200. 
Hampton Inn North, located at 2300 Green Rd. Inn offers jacuzzi/sauna, indoor pool and exercise equipment. Call 313-9964444. 
Hampton Inn South, located at 925 Victors Way. Jacuzzi/sauna, indoor pool and exercise equipment also included. Call 313665-5000. 
Holiday Inn East, located at 3750 Washtenaw Ave. Provides an outdoor pool. Call 313-971-2000; 
Howard Johnson's Motor Lodge, located at 2380 Carpenter Rd. Offers a jacuzzi/sauna and indoor pool. Call 313971-0700. 
For those of you who do have an old friend's place or Ryder truck to crash in and are only worried about the list of party spots, it's long as well. 
The most popular Michigan student party spots include: 
Rick's, Good Time Charlie's and O'Sullivan's . Rick's and Good Time Charlie's are on Church Street while O'Sullivan's is on South University. 
Additional places to get a few beers and listen to various types of music are: The Apartment Lounge, 220 Fuller Road and the Nectarine Ballroom, 510 East Liberty. The Bird of Paradise, 207 South Ashley and The Blind Pig, 208 South First Street feature live jazz. Anyone who isn't 21 and doesn't have a great fake ID can get into to the Nectarine if you're 18 or The Blind Pig if you're 19 . 
A live band can be found at City Umits, 2900 Jackson Road and the Habitat, 3050 Jackson Road. If your into Top 40, a DJ will be working at R B McBayens, 61 t Church Street. To fall back into the 50s and 60s, Reunions, 3200 Boardwalk is the place to go. 
And for those who are country at heart Aubree's Saloon, 39 East Cross Street in Ypsilanti is the place to do the two-step. 
Great food can be found at Pizzeria Uno, a favorite student hangout, right down the street from O'Sullivan's on South University. Along with a warm atmosphere, patrons will also enjoy original deep-dish Chicagostyle pizza, plus soups, salads, sandwiches and burgers. 

Ann Arbor Alumni Club hosts road-tripping Domers 
By ELIZABETH 
WHOLIHAN 
Accent Writer 
T 
he spirit of Notre Dame will come alive this weekend as the Fighting Irish once again face the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. The Notre Dame Club of Ann Arbor is well prepared to help ND students enjoy themselves before and after the game with events planned from Friday through Sunday. 
Organizers of this weekend's events are ready to show students a good time in Ann Arbor with both a pep rally and a tailgate. According to club president Anne Branford Livert ('79), the club members have been pre ping for this event for close to a year. 
The pep rally will be held from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m. Friday evening at the Ramada Inn on Boardwalk St. It is free to ND students with ID. There will be food, a cash bar, a disk jockey, cheerleaders and a representative from the athletic department to get the weekend off to a lively start. 
Saturday's tailgate, from noon to 3 p.m., is sponsored by all of the Notre Dame Clubs in Michigan. Located across from Michigan Stadium in the Pioneer High School lot, the festivities will be easy to spot by a large 
PIONEER HIGHSCHOOL 

~------------------~~ 


~----------------~ 
GO IRISH! 


~----------------~ 
~ 
~ 
CJ}< 
~ 
~ 
< 
~ 
< 

tent and a Notre Dame balloon. Also free to ND students, there will be plenty of food as well as much local coverage from radio stations, including a major Detroit station. 
A mass will be held at 10 a.m. Sunday morning at the Ramada Inn, followed by a continental breakfast ($5). According to board member Kay O'Neil, the first priest contacted to preside over the mass, a true ND fan who has since fallen ill, had promised (threatened?) a 45 minute homily in the case of a Michigan win and no homily at all for an Irish victory. 
..A lot of people have been working hard ... we really are trying to appeal to the students," says Livert. 
Not quite 10 years old, the Notre Dame Club of Ann Arbor is one of the smaller, newer alumni chapters with 160 members. They do the usual student send-offs as well as plenty of educational and community services. This event is one they hope will be a big success with ND students. 
Organizers expect 300-400 fans at the tailgate and encourage all ND students to come to Ann Arbor for the weekend's events. 
There are rumors, says Livert, that Michigan fans are planning to crash the tailgate. There has also been a lot of local coverage of the upcoming game and Michigan's hopes for a win. Seniors from the Michigan team are evidently a little 
University of Michigan Football Stadium 
EISENHOWER 

BRIARWOOD 
MALL 
1-94 
bitter about their losses to the Irish in the 
past three years and are determined to win 
in their last year. 
Livert also makes a reminder to students that there is a time difference between South Bend and Ann Arbor and encourages students' presence at the tailgate around 1 
p.m. Much of the radio coverage will take place then, and there have been requests on part of the station for the students to sing the ND fight song on-the-air. 
Club members will also be filming the weekend's events, later to be edited into a program for a local public access cable station. "Go Irish-Beat Blue" buttons sponsored by the club will be on sale. 
Students who do not have tickets for the game are encouraged to make the trip to Ann Arbor anyway. If there are no tickets to be found, plenty of local restaurants and bars will be showing the game. 
The trip is worthwhile just to experience the lively downtown area and the fun of State Street. "We know students will be starving and poor," says Livert. The club is prepared to feed all and show ND students a good time. 
Directions to the Ramada Inn: 
From 194, exit State Street, go right (toward the city), take a right onto Eisenhower Blvd., and a right on to Boardwalk St.-it's on the left-(this is a commercial area). 
~------------------------------------~ 
EXIT 177
EXIT 175 

'

.. ' .. ....._, ' E;~ t I._~ t '"'~ t -1 :A ..J,<.J .., llA.i 
t 
page 14 The Observer 
An S.O.S. from a field angel to the Pope 
To His Holiness, Pope John Paul II, Papal Apartments in Vatican City, Reverend and dear Holy Father in Rome:  rf I .Fafher Robe Gr ffln Letters to a Lonely God  turning earth. These horrors will come as chastisements from God satisfying His need for justice. If He is cruel, we are told, it's because He loves us.  Bishop of the diocese, I notice, also has misgivings about the influence of the Franciscans on the visionaries. The Aug. 25 message links Medjugorje to Fatima. Fatima,  
Yesterday,  a  flyer  marked  Genocides and holocausts are  you  may  think,  is  above  re- 
URGENT  showed  up  in  the  forms  His  mercy  may  take  proach, because the Pope goes  
mail.  Titled  "Nine  Day  For  your churches, businesses, and  Perhaps both us us are mak when, as our Heavenly Father,  there to say Mass. Fatima,  so  
Changing  World  History,"  it  community bulletin boards."  ing laughing  stocks  of  our- He  resorts  to  "tough love"  to  far  as  I can  see, will have  a  
began: "On August 25, 1991, a  Holy Father, may I respect- selves as we fall out with each  bring us  to  our knees  so  that  cloud hanging over it, until the  
message  was  delivered  from  fully suggest that the time has  other, trying to get the atten we will not lose our souls.  last of the  Fatima  secrets  is  
Heaven to every individual on  come for you to release the fa tion of students.  In a world where two-thirds  made known.  
earth.  mous  "Fatima  letter?"  Most  "Odium  theologicum"  - or  of the children go to bed hungry  Rumors  have  it  that  the  
"The message, given by the  Catholics believe that the letter  the strong dislike which Chris- every night, God is is already  catastrophe described in Sister  
Virgin Mary, Mother of Jesus,  contains the "third part" of the  tians sometimes have for an- disliked -unfairly, I hope - Lucy's letter involves the sudden  
was  conveyed  to  a  young  Fatima  secrets,  which  Pope  other person's religious opin for  being careless.  Once  we  melting  of the  polar icecap,  
woman  in  Medjugorje,  Yu- John XXIII refused to disclose  ions -has never been attrac start seeing Him through the  causing the water level to rise  
goslavia ... Mary, who identifies  in 1960, as he was expected to  tive. It's especially inappropri visionaries'  eyes  as  the  in the world's oceans, leaving  
herself  as  'Queen  of Peace,'  do, because he believed it would  ate when  a  burnt-out English  chairman  of  the  board  in  continents flooded, and millions  
asks all the world for nine days of renunciation to bring to  distract the Church too much. If the letter were released  teacher differs with the expertise of a nationa1ly-known theo charge of chastisements, some of them not yet off the drawing  drowned. Hasn't the time come for the  
fulfillment  secrets  which had  soon,  perhaps  it  could  shed  logical scholar.  board, how  can  we  resist the  Pope to publish the Fatima let- 
begun  in  Fatima,  Portugal,  some light on the credibility of  Jesus said that if the children  idea that a new dimension has  ter,  to give Catholics, anxious  
when  She appeared  to  three  the Medjugorje phenomenon.  hadn't greeted him with hosan been added to  the mystery of  to do the right thing, an idea of  
children in 1917 ... "  Sincerely yours, Bob F. Grifrm,  nas on that first Palm Sunday,  suffering?  the secrets which "nine days of  
The flyer reproduces the Aug.  field angel.  the rocks would have cried out.  Cardinal  Suenens  wrote:  renunciation will bring to ful 
25 message of Our Lady, al "Once more unto the breach,  A man should be allowed to be  "Christ  came  not  take  take  fillment?"  
legedly  appearing  in  Yu dear  friends,"  and  I wish  it  as responsive to his conscience  away our suffering, but to fill it  Medjugorje  is  becoming  
goslavia. "Dear Children ... I in- were  otherwise. It seems  that  as  the  good  Lord  fantasized  with His presence." If we believe  Catholicism's  longest running  
vite  you  to  renunciation  for  "Nine Days in September," be- that a rock could be.  this,  doesn't the picture  that  soap  opera.  Believing  in  
nine days so that with your help  ginning today, are going to be  1 don't think I'm dishonest  the visionaries leave us with, of  mysteries  may  be  part  and  
everything I wanted to realize  even more suspense-filled than  when 1 try to defend Our Lady  the Blessed  Mother trying to  parcel of a  revealed religion.  
through the secrets I began in  the Eleven Days in October   against her followers, willing to  shield  us  from  the  Believing in  secrets in which  
Fatima may be fulrllled ... "The  were in 1962, when the Cuban  believe she reveals things that  chastisements  of God,  seem  warnings  are  handed  down,  
letter that came with the flyer  missile crisis took place.  come short of the glory of God.  primitive? As  a  Catholic,  one  and  trusting  that  they  have  
was addressed simply to "Field  I'm sorry to be considered the  In this long century of anxi learns  to  shrug  off  the  anything to do the religion of  
Angels,  and  it  came  from  a  irresponsible  priest  who  is  ety, the Catholic woods have  prophets of gloom.  Christ, strikes me as mindless.  
group calling itself caritas of  grieving the mother of Jesus.  been  filled  with  visionaries  Medjugorje  has  always  But if the Pope could get the  
Birmingham."  The last time it happened I was  warning the Church against the  seemed like another set of in- last of the Fatima secrets out  
The letter notes that in the  accused in The Observer of be- apocalypse to come as a  pun structions  on  how to sidestep  on the table, maybe we would  
August message, "For the first  ing dishonest in the pieces I  ishment for sin: of murderous  an  apocalypse,  or  avoid  a  know what we're dealing with  
time,  Our  Lady  mentions  wrote in resistance to the Med- firestorms  lasting  for  three  showdown with the Almighty.  when Our Lady plays "I've got a  
'Fatima' and the secrets given  jugorje hype.  days of darkness; of the great  My  suspicions are  that those  secret," at Medjugorje.  
there."  I humbly admit that I'm  a  rivers  in  Europe  turned  red  six young people have had their  Maybe all of us should send  
Caritas has been "working  lightweight and a curmudgeon;  with the shed blood of martyrs,  lines fed to them by the Fran- letters and telegrams to Vati 
around  the clock"  to  put out  but when  a  priest I have  re- as the Communists raise ban ciscans in charge of the parish  can City,  
"packets" containing "this ex spected and loved all my  or ners  displaying  the  hammer  church  they  attend,  for  the  Peace to the fellowship whose  
tremely important message. We  dained life tells me I'm dishon and sickle  over St. Peter's in  monthly messages,  attributed  names  are  written  in  the  
are asking you to put hundreds  est, I start examining my con- Rome; and of nuclear annihila to Our Lady, have the banality  Lamb's book of Life.  I  never  
or even thousands of copies in  science.  tion  that  will  devastate  the  of  parish  preaching.  The  said I didn't love you .  


Friday, September 13, 1991 
The Observer page 15 
The Observer acoepts classified& f1Y8fY bu&i~a day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at th Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m at the Saint Mary's officE 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m AU classifieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including aH space&. 
Do you play bass guitar? If so, we I HAVE PURDUE TIX Need 2 Navy GA's And 2 Tenn. For sale: 1 stu season ticket. 5 need you. A few NO students are CALL JIM X2341 GA's Make my life call Dave 12201 games left! Call Bob 299-1008 
I I
NOTICES forming a band. Call Jason at 287-TICKETS 8818. NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA's PLEASE 1111 I need two GA's to i need 2 MICH. ST. GA's. Jeff
USED BOOKS CHEAP!!!II!!!!! PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE ANY home game, esp. MSU. X1715
25% off list price CALL JOE X2341 x1791. 
 H E L P II  Anyone who
10-5:30 everyday $$$ SELL ME YOUR MICHIGAN taped Sept. 9 episode of Evening Need 2 stud tix to MICH. STill Call I NEED 5 NAVY G.A.S BADLY I need 1-3 Mich St GA's, have
Pandora's Books corner of NO STATE TICKETS.$$$ 
Shade, call271-9165. Will return Pete x1791. PLEASE HELP MEl x4312 John $$, Amy x2558ave & Howard tape next day. I am the lizard King and I can do
I would like to buy 2 GA's I have 2 NAVY GA's I need tix for Tenn. (GA or Stu) anything.
TYPING AVAILABLE Need Bassist, Drummer, and would like to trade for Call Joe at x2064.
287-4082 Call Julie at x1342 
Keyboardist. 2 Pitt GA's $$$$ Contact: Wheels 3131 or Chris x1998 Have PITI & TENN GA's, need Need GA's to all home games.
Book Sale sponsored by the $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Hoof 4788 PENN ST. Call (703)768-0607 have extra Purdue tix.
class of 1 993. Pick up your LUSTED AFTER: 2 or 3 Call Tom x1563
unsold books and money Need J.U. and all other tickets 
starting Tuesday Sept. 1 0 FOR RENT Tennessee studs. Call George I need 2 MSU GA's.
I 

at x1672. Call 283-2067. 
in the Junior Class Office. call Bill@ X1747 Pick all books and money up VCR, TV Rentals: 
PERSONAL 

by Friday Sept. 13 Rent a 19 color TV, two semesters $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 3-5 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S. AHHHHHHH! I really need only $99.95. CALL JOHN 312-951-4167 DAYS, Michigan St. tickets! NOTRE DAME VIDEO 13" color TV, two semesters only I NEED GA'S FOR ALL HOME OR 312-929-9411 EVENINGS. Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
NEW MOVIES $69.95. CALL MATI x33n
AND AWAY GAMES!! -Awakenings VCR, two semesters, $99.95. NEED 4 NAVY GA'S THEODORE'S -Dances With Wolves For fast free delivery, call CALL JOE CALL X3806 Need Pitt GA for young bro. 
Tim X1409

-Edward Scissorhands COLLEGIATE RENTALS X1762 THEODORE'S 
272-5959. DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS GA'S-New Jack City 
1 MSU NEED MICH. ST. TICKET
-HomeAione I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY THEODORE'S 
2PITT FOR VISITING VIP
sPECIAL MEMBERSHIP RATES STUDENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO PLEASE HELP! WILL PAY$$$
-Basement of the Stud. Center ND. Efficiencies & one-bdrm. CALL TOM Saturday nite: 4:00-7:00 p.m. Utilities paid. Call 255-9664. X1762 KAREN X4918 PHIL-289-6494 
7DAYSAWEEK D.J. ROYIIIIII 
I DESPERATELY NEED 2 OR 3 2 USC GA's NeededLOST KEYS, LOST KEYS. I LOST BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY NEEDMSUTIX 
219-291-7153 GA'S FOR PITT GAME Ill Call Patrick @ 271-1573 
Angie x2172 10 to 1:30 House PartyX 1684 GAs FOR SALE: 2 Michigan, 
ILOST/FOUND BED&BREAKFAST FOR NDtST. NEED Tennessee GA's badly for Please help my HOMETOWN2 USC, 4 Purdue
MARY'S FAMILIES. 2 folks Call Scottx3898 BETH ANN HERRMANN!! 4 KEYS ON A NIKE KEY CHAIN. BEDROOMS, PRIVATE BATH. HONEY visit mel I need 3 Tenn Best offer wins! 
WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME! PLEASE CALL 2n-9468, LEAVE TEN MINUTES FROM CAMPUS Help!!! Tlx! Call Tim x1640 Call Chris @ 1023 I CAN'T WAIT FOR DINNER ... MESSAGE_ THANKS. SAFEST NEIGHBORHOOD IN LOVE, DAVE WANTED: 3 PITT GA's for NEED MICH. TIX
AREA. 234-2626 My parents are coming out to FOUND: One man's watch celebrate my 21st birthday on family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! JOE X2341 ADOPTION: Loving couple, doctor on lawn in front of KeenanA quaint efficiency in lovely old Saturday the 21st. They need 2 HELP ME! Dan x2349 and teacher, longing to share our 
I need 2 GAs (together) for the

Stanford. Please call x2722 mansion near N.D. 225/mo. plus MSU GA's. Otherwise it won't be a love with newbom. We11 give your Need to sell 4 Michigan State Michigan State game. Please
to daim. deposit call2879624 golden birthday. baby a caring, warm and happy
GA's--call Kathryn-x2808 help!I!II call Jen, 283-4098. 
home. Expenses paid. Call Carol 

LOST: SILVER FILIGREE PEN Three and four bedroom homes for Call Julie at x1342 and Frank collect (212) 874-3537. WITH MY NAME CARVED ON IT -rent. Walking distance to Notre Need to sell2 Mich. State HELP!! NEED 2 PITT GA'S FOR LEIS ROBBINS. I'VE HAD IT FOR Dame. I have $$$$$ for your Mich St GA's--call Laurie-x2867 PARENTS CALL TIM X4063 GOODLUCKONTHEMCATh 13 YEARS AND IT MEANS A LOT 232-5411 or 234-0379. GAs! Call Kirstin at 4279 or SATURDAY MONICA "THE HO" 
TO ME. I LOST IT IN THE Need 6 GAs for Michigan State. DESPERATELY!
4208. EIGELBERGER! 
BOOKSTORE. PLEASE CALL273-ATIENTION FEMALE GRADUATE let's make a deal. Call Mike at 283-DESPERATELY! 
Soon Med Schools, like men, will t 0703. STUDENT: Will trade room for Need 9USC tix 1305 DESPERATELY need PITT and/or on their knees begging to have y01
TENNESSEE tickets!

household services. Must Anything!! x2735 Luv, K &J FOUND: Picture of a navy man hjlve transportation and be WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY ND Contact Allison x2750!!1 (one not in NO NROTC) found by available after 2:30 p.m. Call SEASON TIX FOR SALE. HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL HI PUNKIN' infirmary. If yours, give Jeni a call 683-3886 evenings. CALL (219) 931-0n2 COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON. My dad's rich. Just a little note to brighten your 
Sell me an MSU GA.

at x4209. dayl I like it a lot better when we'n 
NOTRE DAME Mickey, x1846
NEEDED: 2 GAs for NAVY game friends. LOST: BROWN LEATHER WALLET I FOR SALE Call Eileen at x4965 TICKETS WANTED Luv, Your best bud. LAST MON. NIGHT 271-1371 Will trade awsome Mich. St. 
MacGregor lour golr.clubs, G.A.'s for USC G .A.'s #1798 
PLEASE CALL ED OR STEVE AT i need 2 GAs to TENNESSEE Why Dear Kyle: Have a great X3402 REWARD! including bag, cart, and balls. don't you sell them to me? I am Jan. NOTRE DAME TICKETS weekendl-l.ove, LMP Excellent condition. $190. 233-9094 FOR SALE. 
NEEDED:1 TENN STUD TIX-Iife Call me for a good time, 2n-6885. 

CALL271-1371. depends on it.Price no object.Call
LOST: SOCCER BALL LEFT AT hey nif 
CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill Brian x3083
STEPAN FIELDS. PLEASE NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, doseout. TI NEED GA'S TO EVERY HOME INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
RETURN. NAVY GAME. CALL MARK Call Dan @271-9239 Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone COLLECT AT 1-407-886-5161. GAMEl CALL MIKE 1655 WILL TRADE USC and NAVY stud Good rates. Save Money. Call me Game Day Promotions 291-6394. tix plus$ for 2 PITI GAs CALL for a quote 9:30-6:00, Pair NIKE AIR Sneakers taken $NEEDED$ NEED M.ST. TIX MIKE 289-8029 289-1993. Office near campus. 
2 One-way tickets from SB to Philly. NEED PITT TIX
unintentionally from Rockne Sept. 1 Michigan State GA for a leave Nov. 14, $125 ea. Call287-213-470-4419
4-PLEASE return to Rock-NO special guest. Pis. call Kim I need 2 Mich. State tix. 
9676. lv. Mssg. THE ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE 
QUESTIONS ASKED!! x4271 Call Erin X2590 if you can 
Lessons and information LOST:Watch-left in locker at Computer:1 OMHz I need PITT GAs help. 288-4919 
XT,30megH0,5.25" floppy,640K,flat PLEASE!II need just one student or 
swimming test, & missing when I Paul 283-3863 
mono monitor,101 ext. keybrd,WP5, G.A. ticket to the Michigan State  MICHIGAN GA'S FOR SALE  COMEDIANS NEEDED!!
retumed.Jt has a black face and 
band, with gold trim. 123,1ike new, $490. Diamond eng. I NEED 8 PITT & 4 TENN. TIXI! game. Call Amy x1347.  INDVL AND/OR 4 TOGETHER Tryouts for Notre Dame comedy CALL MICHAEL@ X2368 
ring, .42kt round, pd $880 in '86,
Call Bill at 2787,Carroll Hall. CALL TIM 283-1706 NO OFFER improv troupe Sept 16-6:30 pm
asking $650. Sofa,desk,chair, $5-I need 2 USC GAs call Brian at 2n-Basement of Walsh Hall. Bring 
No questions asked, REWARD!! WILL BE REFUSED!!! 
30. Call232-9952. 6894 yourself and some creativity.WILL TRADE PITT. STUD TIX 
found: intermediate accounting I NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S; ???s-Call Tim and Doug at x226t FOR MICH. ST. STUD TIX. OR
LAPTOP COMPUTER WANTED Zenith 181, dual3.5 drives 6 Michigan State GA's WILL BUY MICH. ST. STUD TIX
book. 2n-9468 $$ AND WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE 
GA'S. CALL DAVE @283-1545. 
BILL 4334

IBM P.C. compatible 284-5105 LEARN TO SKYDIVE I ClassesLOST: small gold bracelet DOS, in carton, rarely used. every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am. 
Call Lisa at X4989. Call 272-3255 I NEED 2 OR 3 SOUTHERN CAL Need Mich St. and USC GAs Eastem time. Train and jump the I HAVE 2 GA 'S FOR MICH ST
FOUND GA'S; CALL DAVE @283-1545. call Phil at x2096 same day. Modern equipment and training programs. licensed 
FOUND NEED 4 NAVY GAs
pair of CONTACTS Tape Deck, Stereo Cabinet, CHRISX1699 instructors. FFI call Skydive between Very large pillow. Steve, WILL PAY GOOD$$$ TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS Hastings (616) 948-2665.
......................

239-6847 RANDY 800-323-7687
Knot and P.E. scon 277-3327 HELP!
call X2688 
ATIENTION: BANDS !!!! TRADE 2 TENN/2 PITI GA I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN ND Smart Punx
to daim need GA's to TENN gameQuality PA system 4-sale FOR 2 USC GA X4045 STATE. NO PRICE TOO HIGH X 1910
lisa 2572 CALL 3353 ASK FOR SCOTI 

I 
VERY REASONABLE!! demand your freedom
FOUND: RELIGIOUS MEDAL. .........................
Call John x11 09 or Geoff x1 064 Have 2 Pitt GA's trade for MSU
NEED 2 STUD AND 3 GA'S FOR 
GA's. 717-757-1934.
MSUI KATE 4998. 
Sale: Stud. TICket Book-All

WANTED Guitar Lessons It is only 12 days until Perry's from NO teacher NO FOOTBALL TICKETS NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA'S. CALL remaining home games. Call birthday. If you see him before
CALL 289-5311 ANTHONY 
Call Stephen Miller 255-9343 MIKE X2322 234-2594 & leave offer or then, ask him if the 8-foot inflatabk 
WANTED. TOP $$$. 800-638-7655. name/number. woman is going to fit in his bed.
FREE TRAVEL, CASH, AND 
EXCELLENT BUSINESS Microsoft Windows 3 ($49), Excel WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD NEED PITT TIXEXPERIENCE!! 
2.1 ($75), Word for Windows CALL Matt #1518
Openings available for individuals or JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? 
($125), or all for $225. (616) 471-HAVE 4 MSU GA's,
NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs USC BACK-UP SINGER NEEDEDstudent organizations to promote NEED 4 Mich St. G.A.'s want to trade for 2 Pitt and 2 USC
the country's most successful 1612 ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789-for working campus band 
0654. Rob x4352 GA's. x1236. Call J.P. 271..{)742.
SPRING BREAK tours. Call InterTV FOR SALE. Philips 13 inchCampus Programs color TV. Cable compatible w/ Will Trade 2 GA tickets to Mich St,1-800-327-6013. 
remote control.(only 8 months NO '82/St.AC '83 grads from PA I need 2 GA's for either USC or Pitt. 
or USC for 2 to Tenn. or will 
old)Price $200. Please call to Calif. returning for reunion. X2479 
DRUMSII You got 'em, we want purchase Tenn tickets at top $$. NEED,NEED,NEED,NEED 2775079 and ask for Dimitris We need GA's for USC! Please 2 NAVYGA'S 
Call Chris or Ed or leave a message. help usl!l Call my little sister, CAU KRIS@ x34741111111111!11!1!!!111
'em. Call Joe at 271-1211 or Jason 1 -800-800-0061 at 287-8818. 
AM'/, at X2875. THANKS! HAVE M.S.U. GA's II 
I NEED MICH ST TIX IN 'fHE MUST SELL! 1988 SUZUKI 4 HAVE TENN. GA'S
NEED 6 GA'S FOR PITTSBURGH 
FOR SELL OR WILL TRADEWORST WAY. WILL GIVE YOU A

RICH RELATIVES WILL PAY HIGH WHEEL DRIVE 38,000 MILES RIDE IN THE YEN-MOBILE AS NEED MICH. ST. GA'S FOR GA's TO USC OR TENN. NOTRE DAJ\.1: VIDEO
PRICE 1111 
$5,000 CALL 233-7662 AFTER 5 LIBBY X4868 OR 4870
ADDED BONUSCALL CHUCK -2226 283-1167

PM. NEW MOVIES
CHRIS X3414 or 3410 NEEDED! Mich.St. tix -2 ga 1 stud. 
$350.00/ DAY Processing 
FOR SALE Call Scott 2373 Awakenings
NEED 2-3 MSU GAs PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL I NEED MICH. ST. GA'S
'88 F-150 truck -Dances With Wolves
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE STEVE 1083 
5.0 liter, 5 spd. man. trans. Need Tenn. GAs for Desert CALL MIKE @ X 1862 -Edw~trd ScissorhandsNECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242 52000 mi, 10000 lb Reese Storm Vets. Call Keith 2326 -New Jack City 
111 sell you my book of stud tickets 
PLEASE HELP

hitch, green wt aturn. cap -Home Alone
#232-7498PANAMA CITY BEACH 

dual fuel tanks Needs GAs to all home games esp. I NEED A BLOCK OF FOUR 
This Spring Break earn free trips TENNESSEE GA'S
Call Ray Warren for more info 4 for USC, call 271-9165
HELP N.Y. ALUMNI-need MSUand make the most money. Sell the I CAN PURCHASE THEM, BUT
home 679-4542 sPECIAL MEMBERSHIP RATES
tix. please call x1676 best location on the beach next to 
work 272-2144 HELPI Four Persian Gulf War Vets WOULD PREFER TO -Basement of the Stud. Centerthe world's largest night clubs. 
Round Trip ticket missed last ND season coming for TRADE GA.'S 4:00-7:00 p.m.
Need 2 GA's for MSUCampus reps needed to promote 
to ATLANTA Mich. St. NEED 4 GA'S call Keven TO ANY OTHER HOME GAME 7 DAYS A WEEK
will pay$$$Spring Break. Call Kim at 1-800MIKE x1161

good unt~ Christmas #2201
call X1562558-3002. 


-~-----------~---------~--------~-~---
page 16 

Friday, September 13, 1991
SCOREBOARD 
TRANSACTIONS BASEBALL STANDINGS
NFL STANDINGS 

AU limes EDl
8ASUALL AI Time& EDT 
AMERICAN LEAGUE
American League AMERICAN CONFERENCE MINNESOTA TWINS-Signed Tom Kelly, Eaat 
Eaat Dlvlalon w L Pet. GB
manager, to a IWO-year contract extension. w L T Pet. PF PA TEXAS RANGER~Aclivated Gerald Alexander, Buffalo 2 0 0 1.000 87 65 
Toronto 79 62 .560 phcher, from the 15-day disabled lilt. Miami 1 1 0 .500 48 41 
Boston 75 65 .536 31/2 National League New England 1 1 0 .500 16 27 
Detroit 73 67 .521 51/2 CINCINNATI RED~Announced the resignation N.Y. Jets 1 1 0 .500 29 33 
Milwaukee 66 72 .478 t 1 t/2 
of Steve Schott, executive vice pres~nl. Indianapolis 0 2 0 .000 13 33 New York 60 79 .432 18 Baltimore 58 82 .414 20 112
BASKETBALL Central Continental Basketball Association Houston 2 0 0 1.000 77 24 
Cleveland 46 93 .331 32 LACROSSE CATBIRDs-Named Mke McCollow Cleveland 1 1 0 .500 34 26 
Weat Dlviaion w L Pet. GB
assistant coach and John Bed<er assistant Pittsburgh 1 1 0 .500 60 72 marketing director. Cincinnati 0 2 0 .000 21 75 
Minnesota 85 56 .603 Global BasketbaH Association Wnt 
Chicago 77 64 .546 8 
Texas 74 65 .532 10 
FAYETTEVILLE-Named Kevin Mackey head Kansas City 1 1 0 .500 24 20 Oakland 75 66 .532 10 Kansas City 71 68 .511 13 
ALBANY-Signed AI Smith, forward. Denver 1 1 0 .500 58 30 
coach. LA Raiders 1 1 0 .500 33 60 National Football League Seattle 1 1 0 .500 44 40 
Seattle 70 69 .504 14 DALLAS COWBOYs-Activated Alonzo San Diego 0 2 0 .000 34 60 
California 69 70 .496 15 Highsmith, fullbacl(, from injured reserve. NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
Wedneaday'a Gamea INDIANAPOLIS COLTs-Piaced Bill Schultz, Eaat 
Oakland 6, Chicago 5, 10 innings offensive guard, on injured reserve. w L T Pet. PF PA 
Baltimore 4, New York 2 PHOENIX CARDINALs-Placed Larry Centers, Phoenix 2 0 0 1.000 50 24 
Detroit 8, Boston 2 running back, on Injured reserve. Signed Terrence Washington 2 0 0 1.000 78 3t Seattle 7, Toronto 3 Flagler, running back. Dallas 1 1 0 .500 57 47 
Cleveland at Milwaukee, ppd., rain SEAffiE SEAHAWKS-Signed Theo Adams, N.Y. Giants 1 1 0 .500 29 33 
Kansas City 4, Minnesota 1 offensive lineman, to the practice roster. Released Philadelphia 1 1 0 .500 30 29 Te)(as 11, CaJWornia 9, 12 innings Kevin Thorrp&on. safety, from the practice rO&ter. Central Thuraday'a Game Late Game Not Included
GENERAL Chicago 2 0 0 1.000 31 26 NEW JERSEY SPORTS AND EXPOSITION Detroit 1 1 0 .500 23 59 Boston 7, New York 2 
AUTHORITY-Named Helen Strus manager of Minnesota 1 1 0 .500 26 29 Cleveland 6, Baltimore 5 media relations for the Meadowlands Arena and Green Bay 0 2 0 .000 17 43 Milwaukee 7, Detroit 0 
Giants Stadium. Tarrpa Bay 0 2 0 .000 33 37 Texas 4, Minnesota 3 
HOCKEY w..t 
Chicago at California. (n) National Hockey League New Orleans 2 o 0 1.000 44 34 
Only games scheduled 
DETROIT RED WINGS-Assigned Claude Banhe, LARams 1 1 0 .500 33 37 Friday'a Gamea Boston (Gardiner 77) at New York (Johnson 5-10), 7:30p.m.
Derek Booth, Greg BigneH and Jody Praznik, San Francisco 1 1 0 .500 48 30 Cleveland (Otto 1-6) at Baltimore (McDonald 6-8), 7:35 p.m. 
delensemen; Cregg Nicol and Don Stone, left Atlanta 0 2 0 .000 22 34 
wings; and Don Oliver, right wing, to Toledo of the Sunday'a Gamea Oakland (Stewan 11-8) at Toronto (Guzman 8-2), 7:35p.m. 
Seattle (Johnson 12-10) at Kansas City (Aquino 7-3), 8:35p.m.
East Coast Hockey League. Returr.ed Malk Myles, Chicago 21, TaJ11)a Bay 20 Detroit (GuUickson 17-8) at Milwaukee (Navarro 13-11), 8:35p.m.
right wing, to Peterborough of the Ontario Hockey Cleveland 20. New England 0 Minnesota (Erickson 18-6) at Texas (K.Brown 9-10), 8:35p.m. 
League. Detroit 23, Green Bay 14 Chicago (McDowell 15-9) at California (J.Abbott t6-8), 10:35 p.m. 
EDMONTON OILERS-Acquired Troy Mallette, left Miami 17, Indianapolis 6 
wing, from the New YOfk Rangers as Cf:lrTll8nsation L06 Angeles Rams 19, New York Giants 13 
Saturday' Gamea for signing Adam Graves, center. Minnesota 20, Atlanta 19 
BO&ton at New York, 1:30 p.m. 
Oakland al Toronto, 3 p.m. 
East Coast Hockey League New Orleans 17, Kansas City 10 
COLUMBUS CHILL-Named BUiy Brown trainer. Phoenix 26, Philadelphia 10 Chicago at California. 3:15p.m. 
Announced a working agreement with the Chicago Buffalo 52, Pittsburgh 34 Cleveland at Baltimore, 7:35 p.m. Seattle at Kansas City, 8:05p.m. 
Blackha'M(s. San Francisco 34, San Diego 14 Detroit at Milwaukee. 8:35p.m. 
SOCCER Los Angeles Raiders 16, Denver 13 
Major Soccer League Seattle 20, New Yom Jets 13 
Minnesota at Texas, 8:35p.m. BALTIMORE BLAST-Signed Emil Dragicevic, Houston 30, Cincinnati 7 midfielder. Monday'a Game 
AU Times EDT 
SAN DIEGO SOCKERS-Signed Alex Golovnia. Washington 33, Dallas 31 NATIONAL LEAGUEdefender. Sunday, Sept. 15 
Eaat Divlalon
COLLEGE Miami a1 Detroit, 1 p.rn w L Pet. GB 
BROOKLYN COLLEGE-Announced it has New England at Pittsburgh, 1 p.rn 
Pittsburgh 83 57 .593 
dropped h lootbaH program for thil season New York Giants at Chicago, 1 p.m. 
91/2because cl a player shortage. Philadelphia at Dallas, 1 p.m. Chicago .493 14 St. Louis 73 66 .525 
69 71 

DRAKE-Named Chris Gage associate athletic Phoenix at Washington, 1 p.m. 
NewYorll 68 72 .486 15 
director and Michael Adras men's assistant Tarrpa Bay at Green Bay, 1 p.m. 74 17
Philadelphia 66 .471 basketball coach. San Francisco at Minnesota, 1 p.m. Montreal 61 78 .439 21 112 KANSAS STATE-Named Ernie Barrett director of Cincinnati at Cleveland, 1 p.m. 
Weal Dlvlaion 
development for the athletic department. Seattle a1 Denver, 4 p.m. L GB
W Pet. MANHATIAN-Extended the contract of Steve Atlanta at San Diego, 4 p.m. Atlanta 80 SO .571 
Lappas, men's basketball coach, lor three years. Buffalo at New York Jets, 4 p.rn 
Los Angeles 80 61 .567 112 '-!EDGAR EVERS-Narned Bryan Mariner Indianapolis at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. San Diego 71 70 .504 91/2I women's basketball coach. L06 Angeles Ran. at New Orleans, 8 p.m. Cincinnati 68 72 .486 12 NAVY-Named Dr. Sho Fukushima men's Monday, Sept. 11 San Francisco 76 16
64 .457 gyrmaslice 'each: Carla Criste women's track and Kansas C~y at Houston, 9 p.rn Houston 57 83 .407 23 field coach; Joseph French and Gail Beatty 
Wedneaday'a Gamea women's assistant basketball coaches; and Frank New York 4, Chicago 1 Prusch administrative assistant for football San Francisco 4, Cincinnati 2 NORTHWOOD INSTITUTE-Named Dean Montreal 6, Philadelphia 5 Lockwood men's basketball coach. 
Atlanta 1, San Diego 0 
A.P. TOP 25
SOUTH CAROLINA-S PART AN BURG-Announced Los Angeles 9, Houston 1 Jerry Waters, men's basketball coach and Pittsburgh 3, St. Louis 1
How the top 25 teams In the Associated Press' college football poll fared Thursday.
associate athletic director lor facilities. win also Thuraday'a Game

1. Florida State (2-<l) did not Play. Next: vs. Westem Michigan.
serve as interim athletic director. 

Cincinnati 7, San Francisco 3 2. Miami (2-<l) beat No. 10 Houston 40-10. Next: a1 Tulsa, Sept. 28. 
TULSA-Named Steve August director of New York 6, Chicago 3 

3. Mictligan (1-<l) did not play. VI. No.7 Notre Dame. 
marketing and promotions. 

Atlanta 5, San Diego 1 
4. Washington (1-<l) did not play. Nex1: at No. 13 Nebraska. Saturday, Sept. 21. 
Los Angeles 6, Houston 2, 10 innings5. Penn State (2-<l) did not play. Next: VI. Southam Cal. 
Montreal 6, Philadelphia 2 6. Florida (1-<l) did not play. Next: VI. No. 16 Alabama. 
St. Louis 1, Pittsburgh 0 7. Notre Dame (1~) did not play. Next: at No. 3 Michigan. 
Friday'a Gamee
AL LEADERS 8. Clemson (101 did not play. Next: vs. Te~le. Saturday, Sept. 21. 
Montreal (De.Martinez 13-9) at Chicago (G.Maddux 11-10), 3:20p.m. 
9. Oklahoma (Q.O) did not play. Nex1: vs. North Texas. 
Houston (Bowen 43) at Cincinnati (Armstrong 6-11), 7:35 p.rn
AMERICAN LEAGUE 10. Houston (11) lost to No.2 Miami 40-10. Next: at Illinois, Saturday. 
Pittsburgh (Wak 72) at Philadelphia (Mulholland 1411), 7:35p.m. 
BATllNG-Franco, Texas, .341; Boggs, Boston, 11. Tennessee (1-<l) did not play. Next: vs. No. 21 UCLA. 
Los Angeles (Morgan 119) at Atlanta (Giavine 189), 7:40p.m. 
. 338; Molitor, Milwaukee, .332; Palmeiro, Texas, 12. Colorado (1-<l) did not play. Next: VI. No. 23 Baylor . 
New York (Viola 12-14) at St. Louis (B.Smkh 11-8), 8:35p.m.
. 330; Puckett, Minnesota, .330; Tanabull, Kansas 13. Nebraska (10) did not play. Next: vs. Colorado State. 
San Diego (Bones 3-3) at San Francisco (Wilson 10-9), t0:35 p.m.
City, .326; Thomas, Chicago .323. 14. Iowa (1.0) did not play. Next: at Iowa State. 
Saturday' Gamea
RUNS-Molitor, Milwaukee, 110; Palmeiro, 15. Aubum (1-<l) did not play. Next: vs. Mississippi. 
Los Angeles a1 Atlanta. 3:05 p.m. 
Texas, 101; Canseco, Oakland, 100; Sierra, Texas, 16. Alabama (10) did not play. Next: at No.6 Florida. 
San Diego at San Francisco, 4:05 p.m. 
99; Whe. Toronto. 97; Raines, Chicago, 92; 17. Georgia Tech (Q.1) did not play. Next: at Boston College. 
Houston at Cinci'nnati, 7:05 p.m. 
Thomas, Chicago, 91; Franco, Texas, 91. 18. Michigan State (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. Central Michigan. 
Pittsburgh at Philadelphia, 7:05 p.rn
RBI-Fielder, Detroit, 121; Thorras, Chicago, 19. Ohio State ( 1-<l) did not play. Nex1: vs. Louisville. 
Montreal at Chicago, 8:05p.m. 
103; Canseco, Oakland, 101; Carter, Toronto, 99; 20. Texas A&M (Q.O) did not play. Next: vs. LSU. 
New York at St. Louis, 8:05p.m. 
Sierra, Texas, 98; JuGonzalez, Texas, 95; Ventura, 21. UCLA (1-0) did not play. Next: at No. 11 Tennessee. 
Chicago, 92; CRipken, Baltimore, 92. 22. Syracuse (1-o) did not play. Nex1: at Maryland. 
tiTS-Molitor, Milwaukee, 186; Palmeiro, 23. Baylor (1-<l) did not play. Next: at No. 12 Colorado. Texas, 180; Puckett, Minnesota. 178; Sierra, 24. Pittsburgh (2-<l) did not play. Next: vs. T8flllie. Texas. 176; CRipken, Bakimore, 176; Franco, 25. Missilsippi State (1-<l) did not play. Next: vs. Tulane. Texas. 173; Boggs. Boston, 166; Sax, New York, 
t66. 

DOUBLES-Palmeiro, Texas, 41; Griffey Jr, Seattle, 40; Sierra. Texas, 38; Carter, Toronto, 38; CRipken, B~imore, 38; Boggs, Boston, 37; RAiomar, Toronto, 36; Whke, Toronto, 36. 
l 
TRIPLES-LJohnaon, Chicago, 11; Molitor, Milwaukee, 11; RAiornar, Toronto, 10; McRae, 
Fast  Hot  Perfect
Kansas City, 9; Whke, Toronto, 9; Gladden, 
Minnesota. 9; Devereaux. Baltimore, 8; Mack. 


e
Minnesota, 8; Polonia, CalHornia, 8 . HOME RUNS-fielder, Detroit, 40; Canseco, Oakland, 38; Carter, Toronto, 32; Thomas,. f Chicago, 30; Tanabull, Kansas City, 28; CDavis, 
Minnesota, 27; CRipken, Baltinnore, 27. STOLEN BASES-RHenderson, Oakland, 50; Raines, Chicago, 48; RAiomar, Toronto, 43; 
I 
zza 
j 
Polonia. California, 39; Cuyler. Detroit, 35; White, Toronto, 32; Franco, Texas, 27. PITCtiNG (14 Decisions)-Erickson, 
Minnesota. 18-6, .750, 3.13; Langston. CalWornia, 
Serving
17-7, .708,3.11;JoGuzman, Texas,11-5, .687, 2.85; Finley, California, 17-8, .680, 3.64; Gullickson, Detrok, 178, .680, 4.24; JAbbott, 

Notre Dame, Saint Mary's
California, 1&8, .667, 2.92; Clemens. Boston, 15-8, 
.652, 2.44. STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, BO&ton, 204; 

& South Bend area 
RJohnson. Seanle, 191; McDowell. Chicago. 172; Ryan, Texas, 163; Candiottl, Toronto, 153; Langston, CaiMomia, 150; Swindell, Cleveland, 
149; Finley, California, 149. 

j 
( SAVES-Agullera, Minnesota. 39; Eckersley, Oakland, 39; Harvey, California. 38; Reardon. Boston. 37; Henke, Toronto, 31: Thigpen, Chicago, 29; Montgomery, Kansas City, 28. 
 FAMILY SPECIAL  2 -14" PIZZAS  
 1.. 14" WORKS : I TOPPING 

 I 141' 2 TOPPINGS   
REE SAMPLE-make money on campus. No selling . No time  Send large self 

 
'"  

.tdressed stamped envelope to: SOP AX P.O. Box 2894 


 .W.Jillon~l TGPPinlll $.95 c:..:h  -'Wita '"'' Turranl!s 5.6 ~"'h 

 ~ul \"alid With Anr Olhrr Couron e 1fbt V~hd With .-\nr Othrr l"ouf'lan 
 


IS NOW oPEN ! ! 
Stop by for: -cur flowers
,..-::::::::::::::::;

 cards
-

potted pllantS  



 8alloons 
WE ARE LOCATED IN THE BASEMENT OF LaFORTUNE Open Mon.-Sat. 12:30-5:30 
(closed on hon1e football gaiile days) Delivecy to N.D./St. M;ary's Available Phone: 283-4242 .rmJ 

. 
ordinary. 

CAN GIVE YOU... 


<:)<:)<:)<:)<:)<:)<:)<:)<:)<:)<:)<:) BY OUR OFFICE IN
NOTRE DAME 300 LAFORTUNE 

AND LET US SHOW YOU WHAT WE CAN DO FOR YOUR EVENT OR ORGANIZATION.
NEW RELEASES 
OFFICE HOURS: M-F 
AWAKENINGS DANCES WITH WOLVES 
2:30-5:00 PM OR CALL: 
EDWARD SCISSORHANDS HOME ALONE 


ADW-ORKS, 239-6757.
NEW JACK CITY 
SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY 
4 P.M. TO 11 P.M. 7 DAYS A WEEK LOCATED IN THE 

BASEMENT OF 
LAFORTUNE 
Membership Special  
ALL ~ij~INt~~t~ AD~t~il~tD ~N
PAY $5 FOR MEMBERSHIP, GET FIRST MOVIE FREE ! t ** FIRST 1WO WEEKS OF SCHOOL ONLY** 
rm~ ~AUt A~t ~rUDtNr.~UN,
SIGN UP SOON t ! 

Lady Harriers to meet top-1 0 Hoyas 
Observer Staff Report 

The Notre Dame women's cross country team travels to Washington D.C. this weekend for a dual meet against Georgetown University. 
This is the season opener for a team with plenty of question marks. Of the 22 runners on the squad, 13 are freshmen, including Sarah Riley-the California state champion as a junior-Eve Flood and Stefanie Jensen. 
'"We should be a very improved team this year, but we will be dealing with a lot of young people," Irish coach Tim Connelly said. "Hopefully, the older runners will help the younger ones as they adjust" 
Among the top returnees are seniors Diana Bradley, team captain Amy Blaising and junior Lisa Gorski-the fourthplace finisher at last year's Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships. 
SMC Belles lose opener; hope to improve on road 
; 
By KILEY COBLE ! Sports Writer 
~ 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team will have left early this morning to compete in the University of Wisconsin's Whitewater Tournament. The Belles having just defeated North Park College on Wednesday are now 1-5. 
"'I'm glad we're going on with 
a win." coach Julie SchroederBiek said. "'Everyone played so we saw improvement with the freshmen as well." 
The team has a pretty young 
: i: 
team this season with no se
{ 
~~ ....... '1lf , -"''lf--"5-V ".., _................... 
p_age 18 The Observer Friday, September 13, 1991 
THE FIRST AMENDMENT 
"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment ofreligion; of prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press; or the right of the people peacably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances." 
CENSORSHIP IS UNAMERICAN 

niors and four freshmen. However, Schroeder noted the team's statistics improved on .their hitting percentage and their serving percentage. 
.. Everyone was smart on their serves yesterday." Schroeder said. 
The Belles will be compete against Eauclaire College at 4 pm and at 6 pm against Wisconsin Lutheran. Depending on how the team does on Friday will determine who and when they play on Saturday.
I 
Cragin 
continued from page 24 

Not only does Cragin enjoy playing with the team, Brown praises her efforts as part of the team. 
"She's a great team player," Brown said. ..She realizes her strengths and weaknesses, and understands why people play ahead of her in the back row_" 

Back row defense is the one weakness in her game that Cragin continues to work on. Katie Cavanaugh substitutes for her in the back row. 
"I need to improve on playing the back row, especially on my passing and digging , " ( Cragin said. '"I'm working on
! 
it. It's getting there." 

The only options for a future in volleyball lie in Europe and on the beach, neither of which appeals to Cragin. Her plans are to pursue a career in businessmanagement. 
li .. 
However, she has her sights set ,_ on this season. 
,.As a team, our goals are to 
get an NCAA bid and do well 
there." she said. "I want to do 
alii can for the team. 

,,
i. 
SPOR'IS BRIEFS 

Riding 
lessons are available to anyone interested through the NDISMC Equestrian club. Call Jen at 283-1715 or Larisse at 289-7829. Lessons start this week. 

Any 
grad student or faculty member interested in coaching, advising, and or competing in gymnastics should contact Tim Sullivan at 283-3274. The team can pay money simply for an advisor's presence. Regular gymnastics begins Monday at 4:30 


p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility At Saint Mary's. 
Hapkldorrae 
Kwon Do club meets Mondays and Wednesdays 5:30-7:30 in room 301 of the Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. For more information contact Sean at 3457. 

The 
NO Rowing Club invites all students interested in rowing to attend novice practices. Practices this week will be held today, Thursday, and Friday, starting at 4:30 p.m. on Holy Cross Field. No experience is necessary. 



' 

tonight-even ifyou've never used acompmer before. 
2. You don't have to spM~k comput....... 
~ul 
Instead rfcryplic MS.DOS commands such as COPY C WORDPR()().DRAFJ'IXX A\ WOR/( Macinlosh usesfamiliar wonis, such as 09J and PrinJ, andptctures, such asfilejo/dl!1sfor ltoringyour documents and a trash amforfiles )VII unnl to throw IMI)'. 
3. You don't have to be a computer science mejor to set one up. 
Just plug everything together, flip the "on" switch, and you're ready to roD. 
4. It's  breeze to copy Information .nd paste H Into llnother document. 
To~ this chdn, 
simply use the 
mouse ID chaM 
the 09J command. 
To place the chan 

in anolher documenJ, just clwose the Paste command. 

5. All Macintosh programs work In the a.rne way. Learn to use one Macintosh program, and you've learned the basics ofusing them all. For example, the commands you use, such as Open, Close, Copy, Paste, Save, Cut, Print, 
and Undo, are four.d in the same placeevery time. 
The NO Martial Arts Institute will hold beginners classes in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial on Thursday from 6:30 to 8:30 
p.m. and Sunday 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. Advanced classes are held Friday from 6:00 to 8:00p.m. and Saturday 10:00 to 12:00. Anyone is welcome to attend. 
The 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight in the basement of Farley at 7 p.m. All are welcome. For more info, call Mark at 283-1586. 

There 
will be a mandatory meeting for those interested in officiating women's flag football, grad/faculty football, or men's soccer for Rec Sports on Monday, September 16. Football meetings start at 6 p.m. and soccer at 7 p.m. Any questions, call Pete Skiko at either 239-6100 or 287-9258. Pay is 10 dollars per game for all sports. 

Women's 
off-campus football: Practice is today at 5:30 at Stepan Field. Anyone interested in playing should attend or call 




or software. 

11. You can connect to your 
school's malnfowne or 
minicomputer. 
With Madntosh, 
you can send in 
assignments, 
gain access to 
software you 
need for aclass, 
and receive 
lecture notes, 
class schedules, 
and other 
information
right from your 
own room. 


12. It's more affordable than ever. 
Macintosh prices have never been lowerespecially with the student pricing available from your authorized Apple campus reseller. 
Youmayeven qualify for financing, which makes Macintosh even more affordable. 

These reasons all add up to the ~ power of Macintosh. The power  to be your best~  
6. It can growwith you. 
This week you're majoring in phii<JlOphy, next week it's nuclear physics. After all, no one knows exactly what the future will bring. That's why millions ofstudents have found that investing in aMacintosh is asmart move. Because Macintosh can immediately help you do whatever you do--better. And if, come tomorrow, you find that you wam to do something different, no problem. It's easy to upgrade your Madntosh to help you rise to the challenge. 
7. It's great for college and beyond. Doing your work faster, better, and more creatively is also aplus 
in the working world-and that's precisely why Macintosh computers are used in 74 percent offurtune l(XX) 


companies. 

8. H's got connections. To connect aprinter, amodem, an external hard disk, or just about any other peripheral to aMacintosh, simply plug it in. That's all there is to it 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Office ?f University Computing Computmg Center/Math Building 
Phone: 2391477 
Hours: Mon.  Fri., 9:00 -5:00 
. 0 1991 Apple Compwn. Inc. Apple. ~Apple logo. LoaiTalk, Maomooh, and 'The~ rob. your bcsr" are ~=d rraclcrnar1<. of Apple Compurc:r,lnc. Super[lnoe Ga rOOcmatk of Apple Compulft,lnc. IBM and OSI2 are rtg~S~=d rraclcrnar1<. ollntnnarionalllusln<ss Mactmes Corpontion ws.oos;. a rtgist=d rrUmarll of Microsoft Corponuoo 



'翻
~ 
_. 
'"\ 
SESQUICENTENNIAL OPENING EVENTS PREPARING FOR THE NEXT 150 YEARS The University this week begins a 14-month observance of its Sesquicentennial, celebrating its evolution over 150 years from a log chapel parochial school to a national Catholic research university with growing international dimensions. The observance will feature more than fifty special events, ranging from international academic symposia to student activities and from liturgical celebrations to dedications of new campus facilities. The major themes of the observance, reflecting both Notre Dame's academic tradition and its religious heritage, are inquiry, belief, and community. Father Malloy has posed five topics to be explored during the Sesquicentennial: Notre Dame and the understanding of its past; Notre Dame and Catholic education in the United States; Notre Dame and the life of the mind; Notre Dame and the creative18421992 SESQUICENTENNIAL imagination; and Notre Dame and the social and ethical issues of an interdependent and technological world. It is most appropriate, then, that the event that begins the Sesquicentennial Year is one that has much to do with each of these topics and the themes from which they spring. This event is the dedication on September 13-14 of the Theodore M. Hesburgh Center for International Studies, which houses the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies.  
HESBURGH CENTER DEDICATION  
Friday, September 13, 1991 SYMPOSIUM Auditorium Center for Continuing Education GLOBAL PEACE AND DEVELOPMENT: PROSPECTS FOR THE FUTURE Kellogg Institute Panel Peace Institute Panel 9:00 a.m. -11 :45 a~m. 1:30 p.m. -4:00 p.m. "Prospects for the Hemisphere" "Peacemaking in the Global Context" Introductory Remarks: Ernest Bartell, C.S.C. Introductory Remarks: Executive Director, John B. Attanasio Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies Director, Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies Discussants: Discussants: Fernando Henrique Cardoso Federal Senator, Brazil Lester R. Brown President, Worldwatch Institute Alejandro Foxley Randall ForsbergMinister of Finance, Chile Executive Director, Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies Ivan L. Head Professor of Law, University of British Columbia Spurgeon M. Keeny, Jr. President & Executive Director, Abraham F. Lowenthal The Arms Control Association Executive Director, Inter-American Dialogue Moderator: Moderator: Robert C. Johansen Guillermo O'Donnell Director of Graduate Studies, Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace StudiesAcademic Director, Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies Friday, September 13, 1991 Saturday, September 14, 1991 5:00 p.m. 11:00 a.m. DEDICATION MASS OF THANKSGIVING ACADEMIC CONVOCATION Sacred Heart Church Conferring of Honorary Degrees 1 AuditoriumPresider: Reverend Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. Center for Continuing Education University President Hommst: Reverend Ernest J. Bartell, C.S.C. Executive Director, Kellogg Institute These events are open to the public.    


,._ 
it 
! 
l l 

I 
I I I 
I 
I l,~ 
I I I I 
I 
l 
l 

' 
':i i ' 
) 
I 
'I 
I 
I~ 
--'\ 
l ) I 
L i' 
i' 
1\ 
jI \~贩 
H 
I 

r
{ 
l 
I
j 
I 
~ 
page 20 The Observer Friday, September 13. 1991 
Women's golf bopes to roll on 
Men's XC try to extend streak 
Observer Staff Report 

Entering its fourth varsity season, there were many question marks facing the women's golf team. With only two returning letter winners,Jt wasn't clear if the team woul 'be able to compete with some of the best teams in the midwest. Last weekend at Michigan's Lady Wolverine Invitational, however, the Irish proved that they are capable of competing with the best, finishing fourth in the nine-team event with a 54-hole total of 1031. 
Sophomore Chrissy Klein of Kokomo, Indiana sparked the Irish with a 251 total, including a first round 78, good enough to tie for eighth. Senior captain Allison Wojnas was close behind, finishing the 54-hole event tied for lOth at 254. Sophomores Alicia Murray carded a three round total of 265 to tie for 20th and classmate Denise Paulin finished 28th with a 269 total. 
This weekend, the Lady Irish will rely heavily on Klein and Wojnas once again as they travel to Normal, Illinois for the Illinois State University Invitational. They will play 36 holes on Saturday followed by 18 more on Sunday against some of the midwest's best teams. Purdue and Bowling Green State, two teams who defeated the Irish last weekend, will be represented along with Illinois, Indianapolis, Missouri and Michigan State among many others. The 19-team event will give the Lady Irish a true indication of how they stack up against some great competition. 
Although inexperienced, the 1991 women's golf team isn't lacking talent. Wojnas is the reigning New Jersey State Women's Amateur Golf Committee champion and Murray finished second in the South Dakota Women's Stroke Play Championship this summer. That talent will have to come out this weekend if the team hopes to be successful at Illinois State. 
The Michigan State Invitational is next on the agenda for the Lady Irish and considering last season's performance in East Lansing, good things are on the horizon. In the first two rounds, the team fired back-to-hack school records of 322 and 316 and coach Tom Hanlon is hoping for a repeat performance this season. 
Trips to the University of Illinois and Northern Illinois University will round out the team's fall slate. 

By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 

A coup is afoot in the nation's capitol. On Saturday, Georgetown will try to break the Notre Dame men's cross country win streak in their annual dual meet. The Irish have won four straight against the Hoyas. 
The meet will be the first test for a team which finished third at the NCAA championships, but lost its top two runners to graduation. Nonetheless, Notre Dame coach Joe Piane is looking forward to the competition. 
"The meet is a wonderful early season test," said Piane. "Traditionally, Georgetown has had a very good team." 
For the first time, Notre Dame goes into the meet with a national ranking (5th) and the ranking will be an added incentive for the Hoyas. 
"When no one expects you to 
Stop by Morrissey Loan 2nd Floor LaFortune between 11:30-12:30 Monday -Friday 
Get up to $250 Payable in 30 days @ 1/o interest 
do well, you can sneak up on them," said senior captain Pat Kearns. "There's a pressure to being noticed." 
Representing the Irish in the meet will be seniors Pat Kearns, Kevin Keegan, Mike Drake, juniors John Coyle, Nick Radkewich, J. T. Burke, sophomores Mike McWilliams, Hugh Mundy, Jeff Matsumoto, and freshmen J. R. Meloro, Nate Ruder, and John Cowan. 
Piane expects Coyle, Kearns, McWilliams, and Radkewich to be competitive with the top runners of Georgetown, but a victory will be a team effort. 
"Our goal is to have all twelve of our runners in before their fourth man finishes," said Pian e. 
For Kearns, the Irish will be successful if they "run as a team and not individuals." 
The meet will be a proving ground for the yet untested freshmen Meloro, Ruder, and Cowan. 
"It's a trial by fire," said AllAmerican Coyle. "They either sink or swim." 
All three freshmen were very successful at the high school level, but come to the meet with some apprehension and some excitement. 
"I'm a bit nervous, but I'm basically looking forward to the experience," said Meloro. 
'Tm really excited going into the meet," said Cowan. "I'm most excited just to be running with the team." 
Piane is eager to see the freshmen compete. Traditionally, a freshman has come in and made a mark for the Irish in his first year. Last year,McWilliams was that freshman. Who will stand out this year remains to be seen. 
Georgetown's lineup features several very experienced runners in Steve Holman, Dan Ireland, and Mike Manley. 
ATTENTION: MANDATORY STUDENT HEALTH INSURANCE 
INTERNATIONAL & DEGREE SEEKING GRADUATE STUDENTS 
September 20, 1991 Is the deadline for WAIVING enrollment In the mandatory student health Insurance plan. 
This deadline also applies for dependant enrollment. 
For further Information contact: Insurance Office 
University Health Services 239-6114 1:00pm-5:00pm 
Monday through Friday 

([7 CUSHING 
MONDAY 
SEPTEMBER 16,1991 8:00 -10:00 A.M. 
INDUSTRY DAY REGISTRATION DEADLINE : SEPTEMBER 16 Sponsored by the JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL 
Friday, September 13, 1991 
The Observer page 21 
Men's soccer to take on Billikens 
Observer Staff Repon 
After a disappointing season opening loss to Midwestern Collegiate Conference rival Loyola, the Irish men's soccer team must put their best performance on the line tonight as they visit 12th-ranked Saint Louis. 
Despite the loss to the Ramblers, the Irish proved they will be a force to contend with this season. One of the many bright spots against Loyola was the team's potent offensive attack. Although they couldn't put the ball in the net, they proved their offensive prowess, outshooting the Ramblers 15 to 
5. Midfielders Kenyon Meyer and Jason Fox along with forward Kevin Pendergast led the way, frring three shots each. 
Second-year coach Mike Berticelli was also pleased with 


"I think the importance of these 
Friends don't let friends drive drunk When in Ann Arbor, use your head 
BRAINS&BRAWN 

PLAY THE MOST EXCITING LIVE TV COMPETITIONS IN HISTORY 

TRIVIA COUNTDOWN NIGHTS!DE 
&SHOWDOWN 
Late night trivia contest for A panel of experts developed 
Adults Only, guaranteed to the ultimate fun trivia contest 
put a smile on your face and that pits your skill and 
keep ~ there. knowledge against other players here in our place and players all across the country. 
081 
For the first time in history, 
you can actually interact with 
live TV football games via 
satellite right here. Compete 
with other players here and 
nationally by anticipating live 
quarterback plays. 
While you're in 
pick up your free Mon -Thurs. 11 a.m.-Midnight Fri. & Sat. 11 a.m.-1 a.m.University Club Card Sur.day 11 a.m.-11 p.m. 
NIGHTLY SPECIALS. FREE APPETIZERS 

~~~~~NOTRE DAME/MICHIGAN FOOTBALL~~~~~~~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
Notre Dame 

~ ~ 
Pep Rally 

~ 
Friday Night 

~ 
Party 

~ 
9/13/91 

~ ~ Ramada Inn 3206 Boardwalk 
~ 
(Across from 

~ 
Brlarwood Mall) 

~ 
8:00pm to 12 

~ 
midnight ~ Snacks & Cash Bar ~ 
~ 
the play of his freshmen. Berticelli's first recruiting class overcame their first-game jitters and performed with a great deal of maturity. Rookie goalkeeper Bert Bader set the pace, stopping four Rambler shots in his first collegiate match. 
An even better performance will be needed tonight, however, if the team hopes to defeat the highly touted Billikens. In nine seasons at'the helm, coach Joe Clarke has established Saint Louis as a soccer powerhouse, earning seven N .C.A.A. tournament bids. Seven starters return from an impressive 18-5-2 campaign in 1990, including first-team all-M.C.C. performers Brian McBride and Steve Kuntz. The Billikens left the M.C.C. this season, however, to join the Great Midwest Conference. 

State of Michigan Regional Tailgate Before the Game 
9/14/91 

Ann Arbor Pioneer H.S. Parking Lot (Across from U of M Stadium) 12:00 Noon to 3:00 pm
, 

Starting 3 Hours Before the Game Snacks & Soft Drinks 
All weekend activities FREE with ND student ID 

Traditionally, the Irish haven't had much luck against Saint Louis. Overall, they are 2-6-0 against the Billikens, including a pair oflosses in 1990. 
After tonight's tough road match, the Irish return home for four straight, beginning Wednesday night against Central Michigan. The home stand features matches against seventh-ranked Evansville on September 22 at Moose Krause Stadium and 14th-ranked Indiana on September 26, which has been moved to South Bend's School Field to accommodate a larger crowd. 
Tonight's test at Saint Louis will give the talent-laden but inexperienced team their first test against national-calibre competition, and if they continue the domination they showed against Loyola, they should be very successful. 
Irish women to face tough competition in Cincinnati 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will try to rebound from Tuesday's subpar performance at Dayton when they hit the road again this weekend for two games in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Tomorrow, the Irish face the Cincinnati Bearcats, ranked 22nd nationally and sixth in the Central Region, where the Irish are ranked seventh. On Sunday, Notre Dame will be opposed by the Vanderbilt Lady Commodores. 
The Irish, who came out flat for the Dayton game, will look to turn up their intensity level this weekend, when two impressive wins could catapult them into the top 25 nationally. 
games will help to motivate our players," a confident Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said, ''I've seen Cincinnati play, and I know Vanderbilt well. I believe that we have the ability to win both games." 

~~f!JEJ>ll: 
l3000lbsOF~~ 
 INDIVlDUAL EXERCISE 
PROGRAMS-BUILD/REDUCE 
 
ICARIAN EXERCISE EQUIPMENT 

 
.IEROBICS-35 CLASSES PER wn:lC INCLUDING REEBOK STEP ..tEROBICS CAM STAR CIRCUIT TRAINlNG EQtllP 

 
LOCKER, SHOWER, DRESSING ROOMS 

 
TANNING CADDMONAIJ  SPOR7SWEAR CADDmONAIJ 


~JNIW~~~ 
M-F 6:00AM-10:00 PM SAT 8:00AM-6:00PM SUN 12:00 PM -4:00 PM 
POWERHOUSE GYM  130 WEST EDISON ROAD  MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 

page 22 The Observer Friday, September 13, 1991 
Sailing club to host Regatta. 
I By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 
Perhaps the only exposure
il ' 
.~ you've had to sailing is watching Dennis Connor's great victories in the America's"Cup. 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Sailing Club has its own version of the America's Cup-the 1992 Collegiate Nationals next June. The ND/SMC Sailing Club takes its first step towards the Nationals this weekend in the annual Irish Intersectional Regatta at Eagle Lake, located just twenty minutes northeast in Michigan. The Regatta attracts perennial Midwest powers like Michigan State, Wisconsin, and Michigan, as 
i 
1 
l 
SHARP 

MINI COMPONENT 
TABLETOP STEREO 
 
Auto reverse tope deck 

 
6 disc magazine style CD changer 

 
2-woy speakers. boss reflex. superwoofer 

 
Dual 5 bond equalizer 98061 (Mfr #CD-CSOO) 


well as respected East Coast schools such as Georgetown. 
The Irish Intersectional is one of the two best fall regattas, according to Moira Sullivan, Commodore of the Sailing Club. Sullivan singled out sophomores Michael Kane and Greg Millar as two of the Club's best skippers and also commented on the team's prospects this fall. 
"We've always been very competitive in the Midwest," said Sullivan. "I think we will be among the top three teams this fall, and we should make it to the Sloop Nationals again." 
"Our goal this fall is to qualify for the Timme Angsten Regatta at Thanksgiving in Chicago," said Sullivan. 
The Timme Angsten is the premiere regatta of the fall and a goal for many other teams as well. Not only will the ND/SMC Sailing Club compete in thirteen regattas across the Midwest this fall, but they will also give sailing lessons to any beginners who are willing to learn. The Club offers an opportunity for travel to other Midwestern Universities and a chance to sail for one of the Midwest's most respected Sailing Clubs. With an interesting mix of new fresh man and upper-class skippers, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Sailing Club figures to be one of the top teams in the Midwest and hopefully contend for a spot at the Collegiate Nationals. 

  



CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Friday 
30 S. African ss "--Enough,"ACROSS village TV sitcom
7:15 p.m. Film, "Silence of the Lambs." Annenberg 
w 1 Total 58 Buzzer
Auditorium. 33 Forage plant 
6 Sprag 59 Have the flu 
7:30 p.m. Folk Dancing. Clubhouse, Saint Mary's 34 Wanderlust
10 Musical &2 "Futilitarian"
College. appeaser
inspired by T. S. expression8:10p.m. "Viva: A Showcase of Entertainment," Ariel, Eliot 351ncrease 
63Speedway
Russian pop pianist. Washington Hall. 14 Stand of trees 
37 Certain 66 A river at 
8:30 p.m. Film, .. Mortal Thoughts." Cushing 15 Financial deal students of Rennes Audito,rium. human behavior 
t6 Metal eqpt. 67 Wellaway
9:45 p.m. Film, "Silence of the Lambs." Annenberg . n Fabulous; 43 Thigh armor 68 Scottish dance Auditorium. visionary 
44 Grayish yellow &9 So-so grades 
10:30 p.m. Film, "Mortal Thoughts." Cushing 19 Athirst 70 Montague, e.g. 
45 Miss Pigg9, e.g. 

Auditorium. 20Siamang 7t Pays; settles 
481ndian

Saturday 21 Group of 
storeroom

whales 49 Respect DOWN
7:15 p.m. Film, "Silence of the Lambs." Annenberg 22 Abundant food 
Auditorium. fish st Coarse linen t Taj Mahal city cloth
8 p.m. Moreau Center for the Arts 1991-1992 Cultural 24 "... Can You 2 Gutta 
-Dime?"
Events Season, Tom Paxton, songwriter and Folk singer. 53 "A mother is not 3 Of a household 
27 Host a person-
O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. 4 Pulpy fruit 
28 Capable of on ...":
8 p.m. Concert of Liturgical Music, Pomcrium Musiccs, s Correspondent
movement D. C. Fisher
vocal ensemble specializing in Renaissance music. Sacred of a sort Heart Church. 6 Group of lions 
8:30 p.m. Film, "Mortal Thoughts." Cushing 7 --room, as at
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
camp
Auditorium. 
8 Colorful fish 
9:45 p.m. Film, ..Silence of the Lambs." Annenbcrg 
9 Chopin was one 54 Plump plus 
Auditorium. 
29 Gold, in Peru 45 Like Yosemite 10 Flock of finches or Yellowstone 56 Persia today 
10:30 p.m. Film, ..Mortal Thoughts." Cushing 
31 TV part

t t Counsel Park 57 Hacienda room 
Auditorium. 
32 G. I.'s overseas 60 Berlin's "Say It
12lvy or morning 46 Troupial 
glory address 47 Shake -So"LECTURES 13 Flocks of 35 Threshold 49 Pwr. source 61 Parts of so Say "bon journeys
herons 36 Michelangelo
Friday voyage" to 84 Machine part 
18 Sped sculpture 
52 Crispin's 65 Of the gums: 23 Excavated 38 Should, with Comb. form 
1:30 p.m. "Peacemaking in the Global Context," Kroc products
anew "to"
Institute panel discu.sion. Center for Continuing 
25 Larklike singing 39 Life hist. 
Education. bird Answers to any three clues in this 
40 Screenplay puzzle are available by touch-tone26 Elaine's home 41 Three, in Roma phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75 each28 Ida and Ossa: 

MENU 
Abbr. 42 Aggregate minute). 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Marinated Flank Steak Sandwich Fried Shrimp Broccoli, Cheese, & Ricf' Casserole Chopped Beef Steak Chili Crispitos Vegi-Stuffed Peppers SPB.UtiCER JAY HOSLER 

Fried Perch Vegi Chow Mein w/Chow Noodles 
CALYIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATTERSON 
TIE FAR SIDE 

GARY LARSON
I GOT fl.. 'JER~ NICE.. HELIUM 
BAU.OOK. 
I llKf 1"0 ntt N I< of M)'SE:Lf AS A PEOPLE: PRSON. 

The Farmers' Mafia sends Henry a message 
TC~ 1Gt1T & SATIIJ 121:>.4f s .4~ () ~()::JIIJ ll!'l A[)J'liSSIV~: $~ CU5111 ~c; AU I:>IT()I21 UJ'l 
-
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

. 
'' 
Sports 
Friday, Se~ember13, 1991 
page 24 

l \ l Tight end lrv Smith carries his game to new levels 

'f 
I 
By ROLANDO DE AGlAR 
Sports Writer 

,i . Irish tight end lrv Smith made 
i . the most memorable play of the 
\ ; 
young football season last
p Saturday when be dragged several Indiana defenders 25 yards into the end zone to
II complete a 58-yard touchdown pass from Rick Mirer. "I just felt myself straining as
~ 
hard as I could to finish the job. I couldn't tell bow many people were on my back," said Smith . I "I could see Tony Smith in front of me, and I felt a tug on the ball, but be says he was trying to help me block. I just wanted
!' . ) ~. to tuck the ball in because if I bad lost the handle, it was gone." 
Smith has worked hard this fall to improve his game. He visited former teammate Pat Eilers at the Minnesota Vikings' training camp this summer. 
"From the bowl game until the beginning of Fall practice, I have been trying to decide how good I want to be in football. Over the summer, I went to Minneapolis to visit a friend, and I talked to Pat Eilers. He said, 'The people that stick around the NFL are the ones that work hard.' So I got to watch [Vikings tight end] Steve Jordan and his work ethic, and that helped me a lot." 
Smith has adopted the NFL work ethic in his work at Notre Dame. Though he backs up preseason All-American Derek Brown, he practices like a starter. 
l 
"I want to practice like I am a starter," be said. 1 just want the opportunity, and if I don't 
l: 
rise up then it's my fault. I just want the opportunity." This diligent practice has 
apparently paid off for Smith. Brown, Smith, and sophomore Oscar McBride have as much trouble telling themselves apart on m.m as their coaches do. 

"We rotate in practice because we all need to work and we all need to rest," Smith said. "When we watch film of practice, a coach will ask 'Who was that?' and Derek, Oscar and I will look at each other. Oscar and Derek are both taller than I am, but we can't tell the difference between those two. We all have different styles, but we have the same skills." 
Smith sees himself as a bruiser, because his 6-4, 233pound frame is compact compared to Brown's 6-7, 252. 
"We have different styles because of the way we are built. I can get low and block men easily. Derek is 6-7, and I am 6
4. He has to work harder on staying low, while I can usually get under the pads. We all have pretty good hands as receivers, and all three of us get the job done when we're called on." 
That job may be either catching the football or blocking for the punishing Irish running game. With a Holtz offense in place, the latter is usually the case. 
"Being in the type of offense we're in, any time we catch the ball, it's a bonus," he said. "In the game, we have to come through, because passes are rare enough. 
"I enjoy catching the football. Catching the ball gives you a great deal of satisfaction. Once you catch that first pass, you really block well, because you feel so pumped." 
Brown definitely caught the ball well Saturday against the Hoosiers, but sees a lot of room for improvement in his game. 
"I had a decent game against IU. I did some things well, and some things not so well. Each week I have to get better, and keep as injury-free as possible. We've. learned all the things we need to learn. Now we jusfneed to go out and do them." 
Smith feels as though the offensive line is -very well-prepared to face an inexperienced Wolverine defense on Saturday. 
"We (the offensive line) have to be ready to come off the ball quickly," he said. "Our offensive line is really mature; we have six great people up front." 
Smith also plays baseball for the Irish. Last season, he bit . 178, with five home runs. He sees many similarities between the two sports. 
"At Notre Dame, football and baseball are alike," he said "Coach Murphy is a perfection-

The Observer/John Rock 

Hard work has paid off for lrv Smith. This catch against Indiana is the highlight of the year for the Irish. 
ist just like Coach Holtz. Discipline is big with both coaches, and both are very goal-and team-oriented." 
Smith counts his best moment 
Cragin the killer for Irish volleyball 
By DAN MCKENNA Sports Writer 


When it comes to providing instant offense on the volleyball floor, few can match the hits and kills of rigbtside hitter Marilyn Cragin. 
"Marilyn's a very powerful hitter, and has the ability to hit very well," Coach Debbie Brown said. '"It's important to our team for her to be involved, so we try to get her the ball as much as possible." 
As a sophomore, Marilyn led last year's team with a 2.65 kill average and was second in kills with 270. This year she will be even more depended upon to carry the offense. Brown believes she has the ability to do this. 
"She played a key role in our win against Louisville," Brown said. '"She had thirteen kills and hit at an effi
\ . 
ciency of thirty-nine percent. We got her the ball in critical situations when we needed to side out, and she made it look easy. I believe she has the capabilities to play everv f!ame on this level. I anticipate a strong 

Marilyn Cragin 

season from her both offensively and with her blocking." 
It was .as a blocker where Cragin got her start in the game, during her freshman year at Miraleste High School in Ranchos Palos Verdes, CA. 
"I played all of high school as a middle blocker," Cragin said. "When I made it to Notre Dame I was moved to rightside hitter because we had a lot of strength up the middle. I enjoy this position more because I can get a better approach on the ball." 
During the summer before her senior year of high school, Cragin competed on a select team which traveled to the Soviet Union, Finland, and Sweden. She learned about more than just volleyball on this trip. 
"The real experience came more from visiting with the other players than from playing against them," Cragin said. "It was fun and interesting to meet these teams and see their cultures. It really made me appreciate the U.S.." 
Also an exceptional long jumper in high school, Cragin's decision between track and volleyball was not a difficult one. 
"High jumping is such an individual sport," Marilyn said. "I like the spirit of a team, especially ours. If somethin goes wrong, like I hit into the net or hit out, I'll get encouragement from my teammates. We believe in each other, and when I'm down I can turn to them. They are very spirited, easily excited, and fun to play with." 
see CRAGIN I oaae 18 

on the baseball diamond as one that really gave me a high," he not of offensive force, but of said "It's because someone is defensive accuracy. trying to test your ability right 
"Last season, I threw a runthere and you have to live up to ner out from right field, and it... 
Brown ready for tournament 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame volleyball team travels to Springfield, Mo., this weekend for the Southwest Missouri State Invitational. Besides the host Bears, Ohio State and Eastern Michigan round out the tournament field. 
The Irish (2-1) open with the 14th-ranked Buckeyes tonight, and clearly this should be the feature match of the tournament. However, Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown doesn't want to overlook either Southwest Missouri State (1-5) or Eastern Michigan (1-2). 
"This match will be a great opportunity for us to beat a ranked team," she said. "'If I have a worry about this weekend, though, it's that we might take the other two teams lightly, and we can't afford to do that." 
Ohio State (3-2) recently competed at the Volleyfest in Austin, Tx., in which it posted a four-game victory over 15thranked Pepperdine. Its victory over the Waves salvaged a weekend in which it lost two other toueh matches to seventh-ranked Texas and ninth-ranked Brigham Young. 
The Buckeyes also participated in the NCAA tournament last year, and return four starters from that squad. Senior Leisa Wissler (72 kills in 1991) is one of the top returnees, and is a player the Irish will have to stop in order to pull the upset. 
"She is a good all-around player, especially in the front row," Brown said. 
Last Friday, the Irish were swept away by another member of the top 25, Kentucky, at the Big Four Classic. Brown hopes the team has learned from the experience as it heads into tonight's matchup with Ohio State. 
"I think it had an effect on us," she said. "They knew that we didn't do as well as we had hoped." 
One change Brown has made in the lineup is to start junior Cynthia May over sophomore Molly Stark, who has struggled in the early going. In the Louisville match last Saturday, May came off the bench and gave Notre Dame a much needed lift in its four-game win over the Cardinals. 








