

~·-~~~ 

.g.s.. 
IU2·1tU 

server
U SQUICENU NNIAL 
Saint Ma~s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME •I NOlANA 


VOL. XXIV NO. 36 MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991 


THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Peace group backs ND homosexuals 
Administration issues warning 
By SANDY WIEGAND specifically of the rights of gays Associate News Editor and lesbians. At thP nwditation, Poorman 
Despite a v.ague warning from said the World Peace Aetion Notre Dame's administration Group thought National Coming that the World Peace Action Out Day was "an appropriate Group must not art as a vehicle day to addrnss and encourage 
for an unrecognized student peace and accPptance" in tlw organization, the group met Notre Damn community. Friday to recognize National "Gays and lesbians arn thP Coming Out Day and urge victims of extreme harassment support for all students. and persecution," she said. 
In a brief meditation billed as "Although many groups suffer "Peac(i Begins in the Family," abuses of tlwir rights ... the Marcie Poorman, of the World· rights of gays and lt~sbians Peace Action Group. Michael seem to be particularly in jeop­Vore. co-chah of the under­ardy." ground organization Gays and Poorman then called for "a Lesbians of Notre Dame/Saint more united and accepting, Mary's College (GLND/SMCJ. more peacPI'ul campus." and Larry Bradley. adjunct as­Student Affairs had granted sistant professor of Manage­the World Peace Action Group ment, spoke at the Field House permission to conduct the Mall. meditation, but a letter from 
Approximately 30 people at­William Kirk. assistant vice tended. prnsident of Hesidence Lift~ ad­vised that "Under the provisions 
Vore stressed that the medi­of du Lac. an unrecognized tation was not meant to single student organization does not out a partieular group, but both he and Poorman spoke see PEACE/ page 4 
Hill's friends, Thomas's, offer contradictory testimony 
WASIIIN<;TON (API-four In a long day and night under panel. which is probing Hill's offensive and highly political, Ariz., predicted that most of friPruls of /\nita Hill solemnly the television lights, the Senate allegations of sexual advances too pat, too slick, exactly what a Thomas' previously announced tPstilif'd Sunday slw told them Judieiary Committee heard and Thomas' unequivocal two-bit, slick lawyer" would do. 13 Democratic supporters in lhf' IIJSOs that Clarence sharply c:onnicting testimony denials. Sen. Joseph Biden. the would stand by him unless Thomas had made unwantnd about llill and Thomas, accuser The lie detector test added an Delaware Democrat who chairs something "really heavy" eame sc~xual advallc~Ps toward her. and accused in a drama that element of controversy. "Ms. the committee, ruled the results up b1~fore the end of the But fornwr associates of the captivated the nation. Hill is truthful," said Paul Mi­legally inadmissible. hearings. SuprPmP Court nornirwe "lie wouldn't take no for an nor, -administrator of the test The Senate is scheduled to Biden held out the prospPet of voudwd for him. onP of them answer." Susan Hoerchner and the head of a private secu­vote Tuesday on confirming an all-night session to hear saying, "I know lw did no sueh quoted llill as saying about rity firm in Virginia, in com­Thomas, a 43-year-old black from each of the numerous thing." Thomas in the early 19S0s. llill ments that sent consternation federal appeals judge whose witnesses seheduled to testify, 
OfTstagP. a polygraph expert added that Thomas said, "You through the ranks of Thomas' nomination has turned into a and said Ilill and Thomas would said llill had passed a lin detec­know if you had witnesses, defenders. tale of sex and politics unlike be invited back to dose out the tor tt~st. which her supporters you'd have a perfect case Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, any other. said boostPd her cn~dibility. against me," Hoerchner told the called the development "highly Sen. Dennis DeConcini, 0­
see THOMAS/ page 4 
•o' <t!'[JI u un Jtk ,1
Gleason paints picture Immigrants 

of NO's youthful years scramble for 
By CHRISSY HALL vices in order to meet the 
News Writer greater demands put forth by 

green cards 

the community. 
NotrP Damn's location and the Tlw location that Father Sorin MERRIFIELD. Va. (API ~ ••nlightmwd leadership of tho chose to establish his sehool Thousands of immigrants Holy Cross fatlwrs contributed proved to be advantageous to dropped millions of grnen card to tlw earlv suec·•~ss of the its growth, said Gleason. It was applications at a post offic1~ llniwrsity. siLid Philip Glnason. close enough to Chicago to here Sunday as the deadline professor of history. in a lecture attraet students from that area approached for an immigration Friday. but far enough away not to be visa giveaway. 
Clt•ason discussed Catholic overshadowed by the rapidly Many immigrants delivered Pducation as it was estahlished 11xpanding dty. more than 1.000 applications by tlw lloly Cross fathers under Between the years 1850-eaeh, dropping them oil' at var­thP IPadPrship of Father Ed­1 H60, Chicago's population ious intervals during tlw day ward Sorin I!iO years ago. increased twenty-two fold. and seattl~ ring tlwm among 
Tlw initial n•asons for build­Gleason said that the largely mail bins in the hopes of im­ing ND Wf'rf' to rPcTuit studPnts Catholic immigrant population proving their odds. for I'Piigious training and pro­that moved to Chicago in this "If you makn morn letters, vidt> a lParning environmnnt period chose Notre Damn for you hav•~ a b1~ttnr ehancf'." said that was not available at the higher education, especially Stasia Pawlikowska, a Polish tinw. according to GltHtson. since it was the only Catholic immigrant who drove from 
Tlw t•arly draractPr of Notre institution at the time. Chicago to dnliver 1.020 appli­llanw was one of Notre Damn, however, was cations for herself and hun­"undif'I'PrPntiatPd quality," he not exdusivPiy for Catholics. he dreds more for friends. "I have said in his talk at th•~ CPntPr for said. In fact, Gleason :mid, half a good chance." Social Co11corns (CSC). the student population in the Thn Statn Depart.mnnt will 
Tlw University was not only a early days was Protestant. accept thn first 40,000 valid school hut ra thPr a phH~f~ that The Holy Cross community applications for immigration contairwd many shops, a print­was greatly benefltnd by its visas it rnceives after 12:01 ing prnss, and a servicP organi­small-scaln organization, ac-a.m. Monday morning at a 
zation, Gleason said. Tire Uni­versity o!Tt~rnd a full line of ser­
see GLEASON/ page 6 see DEADLINE/ page 6 
Rachel BelangerfThe Observer Philip Gleason, NO professor of history, discusses the early years of Notre Dame Friday at the Center for Social Concerns. 

,---------------------­
f f 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Ten things ND could do with its megabucks 
When Notre Dame pulled its coup in the spring of 1990, ousting NBC sports and making Notre Dame Saturday a part of our lives through the next sighting of Halley's comet, it 

Rich Szabo 
garnered a cool $30 

Sports Copy 
million (give or take a few 

Editor
million-who can count all

that money) for pocket _______ 
change. 

What, you may ask, will all that money be spent on? Scholarships. grants, and other educational. as well as athletic, funding would be a respectable way to spend it. But I have a few more offbeat, albeit unrealistic ideas. 
So, without further adieu, I present for your perusal the Top Ten Things that Notre Dame can do with its NBC Megabucks. 
10. Throw a campus-wide tailgater. This would ensure that the University knows what everyone is doing on a home-game Saturday, and besides, it would be impressive seeing all that beer in one place. 
9. Buy one of those snow-making machines. This way, instead of wincing when North and South quads pummel each other at the first snowfall, the University can sponsor a fight at a neutral location and avoid all that damage. They can even hire refs so that no one gets hurt. 
8. Increase the size of the Observer. While students would surely enjoy reading a 40 page daily newspaper, production just might have a problem with this one. 
7. Pay for the entire student body's room and board for a year as a sign of good faith. 
6. Give all the money to the football pro­gram. With $30 million invested in football, not only would the top recruits want to come here, but other schools' All-Americans would probably transfer here as well, making ND absolutely unbeatable for the rest of the decade. 
5. Bring "STUDS" to Notre Dame for a month. Wouldn't it be great to have the University pay for ND students to go out on dates and then hear the juicy details, all the while promoting good relationships between the sexes? If CBS can come here, why can't Fox? 
4. Sponsor An Tostal all year long. This would certainly keep spirits high. Who wouldn't want to participate in a wet-clothes relay or listen to some great concerts every week? . 
3. Build a tunnel system around campus. We all know how winters are around here, so what better way to keep warm and avoid slipping on those always-icy sidewalks. Plus, it could become the next hot romance spot, surpassing the 24-hour lounges. 
2. Make available a wider variety of Yo­Cream flavors. 'Nuff said. 
1. Buy the Five Corners area and put a dome over it. This would reduce the number of incidents of off-campus crime and this way the University could promote responsible drinking, as if we're not responsible enough already. They could run specials, like $10 import night or $35 pitchers. 
But wait, the possibilities are endless. How about a Visa Gold with a $30 million limit? Stocks? Overseas investments? Or how 'bout a nice charitable donation to ... 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff News Accent Peter Loftus Katie Eustermann Kelly Lynch Jeanne Blasi 
Viewpoint Sports Rich Riley Dave Dieteman 
Production Business Lisa Bourdon Paul Pearson Michelle Wood Rich Riley 
Lab Tech Graphics 
R. Garr Schwartz Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fnday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

FORECAST: 

Periods of show­ers today. Thun­derstorms pos­sible_ High around 60. Low 
in the 30s tonight. 
TEMPERATURES: 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Nuclear inspection in lrag continues 
•VIENNA, Austria-A fresh team of inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency arrived in Baghdad and has resumed work to ferret out Iraqi nuclear secrets, an agency spokesman said Sunday. The team is looking for physical evidence, IAEA officials said. Following a series of Iraqi efforts to conceal information from previous inspections teams, the U.N. Security Council on Friday banned Iraq's atomic program so it cannot be used as a cover for weapons research, and decided to monitor indefinitely its weapons program. The commission also asked the Security Council to continue close inspections of Iraq for indefinitely. 

NATIONAL 

E.T. director marries actress 
.EAST HAMPTON, N.Y. -There were no aliens. swashbucklers or killer sharks at director Steven Spielberg's latest production. He married actress Kate Capshaw on Saturday night at a ceremony at his Long Island estate. Actors Harrison Ford and Dustin Hoffman were among the 100 guests at the tent wedding on the bank of Georgica Pond. A garden was planted in honor of the occasion, and a rabbi was flown in from California to perform the traditional Jewish ceremony. Spielberg has produced and directed some of Hollywood's most successful films including "Jaws," "Raiders of the Lost Ark" and "E.T. The Extraterrestrial." 
Soviet republics may join arms talks 
•WASHINGTON -President Bush suggested Sunday that any future summit with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev on nuclear arms cutbacks might have to include leaders of the Soviet republics. In the last three weeks, Bush and Gorbachev exchanged proposals for 

OF INTEREST 
•Knights of the Immaculata will be sponsoring a lecture entitled "St. Maximilian Kilbe and the Knights of the Immaculata" by Father James McCurry, OFM CONY., today at 7:30pm in the Library Lounge. All are welcome. 
•women United For Justice and Peace meeting, at 8 
p.m. tonight at the esc coffeehouse. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/October 12 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
3.15

178.56 million 21268 S&P COMPOSITE A 382.33 1i' 216 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,983.68 {t 7.16 
PRECIOUS METALS oowi} s UOto S3624CJ-tlz_ Sll..VER {t-7_0¢ to $4_147oz. 


City Athens Atlanta Berlin Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft.Worth Denver 
Detro~ 
Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid M1aml Beach New Orleans New York Paris Philadelphia 
Rome 
St. Louis San Francisco Seattle South Bend Tokyo 
Washington, D.C 

deep cuts in the superpowers' nuclear arsenals, including unilateral reductions in tactical weapons. "I'm finding that these republic leaders are wanting more and more say over nuclear weapons in their territory," said Bush, who recently met at the White House with the leader of the Ukraine. Bush encouraged moves in the Soviet to sign an economic compact between Moscow and 10 of the republics. 
Mascot iia mav need new digs
•KANSS CITY,Mo.-Kato the potbellied pig may need new digs because of a city ordinance that could force him out as mascot of a fire station. The 4-month­old pig lives at Fire Station 19, but the law prevents pigs from living in a building for humans within 200 feet of other buildings for humans. So many people have stopped by the fire station to visit the 10-pound pig that firefighters have started a guest register. Firefighters plan to ask owners of office buildings within 200 feet of the midtown station to sign petitions waiving objections to Kato, Mange said. The pig wears a gold "Junior Fire Marshal" badge pinned to his red harness. 
H 79 73 
57 
62 66 93 66 57 88 
94 82 63 80 61 
81 
88 63 
64 
62 73 66 83 69 
58 
84 65 


L 63 48 
50 
44 42 56 52 37 70 
64 
38 
50 
61 48 
71 
61 44 
43 
46 66 44 54 45 
34 64 
49 

--------~------­
-
Monday, October 14,1991 The Observer page3 

Rachel BelangerfThe Observer 

Future Darners 
Irish fans Brendan and Courtney Schock pose in front of a tree on campus after the NO-Pitt football game Saturday. 

Club COIUIIII 
OCTIIIR 14, 1881 
l)The PrwproNssional Saci.ty will meet on Tue5day, October 15 at 7:00 pm in 118 Nieuwland. The scrubs are here. The cost is $10. 
2) The World Peace Action Group will meet on Wednesdays at 7:00 pm in the CSC Coffeehouse. Everyone is wekome. 
l]pcoming Events 
TUESDAY.OCIOBER15 
Officers from Johns Hopkins, 
Columbia, Princeton, Tufts' 
Fletcher School, American Univ. 
"SELECTING A GRAD SCHOOL 
IN INTL AFFAIRS: COMMENTS 
FROM ADMISSIONS OFFICERS" 
3:00 -Hesburgh Ctr. Auditorium 
THURSDAY.OCTOBER17 CRIS TOFFOLO, doctorel etudent in the Depertment of Government end 
lntemetionel Studiee 
"CONSOUDATION OF DEMOCRACY IN PAKISTAN" 
Coeponeored with the Kellogg lnetitute 
4:00-Conference Room 103 
MONDAY. OCTOBER 28 
H.E. MICHAEL A. WADSWORTH 
Cenedien Ambe..edor to the Republic of lrelend end Notre Deme elumnue 1'661 
"NORTHERN IRELAND: A VISITOR'S PERSPECTIVE" 
Coeponeored with Student Government 12:15-Hesburgh Ctr. Auditorium 
INSTITUTE FOR 

• • • __INTERNATIONAL 






111111~~~;;~?!:: 
G-7 agree on helping new Soviet economy 
BANGKOK. Thailand (AP)­The biggest industrial democ­racies agreed Sunday on what they called a historic plan to help the Soviet Union build a market economy, but made no specific promises of additional financial aid. 
The Group of Seven said deputy finance ministers would go to Moscow to discuss eco­nomic reconstruction pro­grams. French officials said the visit would begin in a week to 10 days. 
The agreement was reached after two days of talks between the Soviets and the finance ministers of the Group of Seven nations -the United States, Japan, Germany, France, Italy, Canada and Britain. 
Officials described the meet­ing as historic because it marked the first time the Soviet Union had sought such broad help in remodeling its economy along Western lines. 
"What we are seeing here is really for the first time the So­viet Union engaging the West in a level of detail which is un­precedented," Alan Greenspan, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board, told reporters. 
"We are actively engaged in discussions on a range of issues which will shift a centrally planned economy to a market economy." 
Grigory Yavlinsky, leader of the Soviet delegation, said, "The goals we jointly want to achieve are not far from us." 
Greenspan cautioned that the agreement "is not a watershed" 
I.Buy--------;;14 • sessions at the regular
I·price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 1and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA~
L--------­


NOTRE DAMFJSAINT MARY'S COLLEGFJHOLY CROSS 
STUDENTS-sTAFF-FACVLTY 
HAIR DESIGNS Met MORE·­Now In our New Location across from Nonh VIllage Mall 1 52580 U.S. 31 North • South Bend
2n-oos1 
:Haire . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
ssgg:1 1 IPerm Special (long hair extra) . • . • • • . • • . . • . . . . • • •2995I 
I 




PHONE AHEAD 
but only "the beginning of what is going to be a very long and very detailed process." 
U.S. Treasury Secretary Ni­cholas Brady refused to esti­mate a timetable for rebuilding the Soviet economy. 
He said the United States and the other industrial powers "will be as responsive as we possibly can in the shortest space of time." 
Several officials said the eco­nomic crisis has been worsened by the Soviets' lack of detailed information on their economy and Soviet unfamiliarity with generally accepted economic practices. 
Canadian Finance Minister Donald Mazankowski said he was encouraged the Soviets want to establish "fundamentals for a truly mar­ket-oriented economy." 
Norman Lamont, British Chancellor of the Exchequer, said he believed Moscow wanted the Group of Seven's fi­nancial expertise and interna­tional endorsement for strin­gent economic policies that may not be favorably received by the Soviet public. 
In some former Soviet bloc countries, for instance, the shift to market economies has brought inflation. and people have lost jobs because of the shutdown of inefficient busi­nesses. 
The Soviets face an immedi­ate problem of ensuring ade­quate food and medical sup­plies through the winter. Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev has asked for $10 billion in short-term aid. 
A communique from the Group of Seven made no spe­cific pledges of assistance apart from the billions of dollars in humanitarian aid and technical help already promised. 
1"ff GIMMICKS -~ 
E.XTRA INCOME NOWf~ 
ENIIELOPE STl.IFFING -$600 • $800 fNBfY week -Flw~ SASE to 
-1--.lnc. 
P.O. lla<11110605 •OriMdo, Fl328611 
ANC plan to tax rich whites 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa lAP) -The African National Congress, the leading black opposition movement. is preparing a plan that would heavily tax whites as a form of reparations for apartheid. a newspaper said Sunday. 
The proposal would require citizens to pay a levy equivalent to one-third of their assets to raise government money for the impoverished black majority, The Sunday Times newspaper reported. The money would be used to purchase land and other resources for blacks, said ANC official Heinz Klug. 
The plan is not official ANC policy, but was recently adopted by the group's committee on affirmative action, according to the Sunday Times, the country's largest circulation newspaper. 
However, another ANC official denied the report, saying the proposal was raised but had not been adopted. 
"The government should intervene (to redistribute wealth), but there are various devices and they must be fair," the unidentified official told the independent South African Press Association. 
The ANC says the redistribution of wealth from the 5 million whites to the 30 million blacks will be a leading priority if the group comes to power. Most observers believe the ANC would win elections if blacks were allowed to vote. 
ANC critics say the group is wedded to socialist economics that failed throughout Eastern Europe and much of Africa. 
-~­
lbe Observer

page4 Monday.~ober14.1991 


Thomas 
continued from page 1 
proceedings on Monday. 
Far from the crowded com­mittee room, President Bush is­sued a fresh defense of his em­battled nominee. 
•1 believe he will make it," the 

president said before beading off to the golfcourse. 
Thomas and Hill aside. the day's drama demonstrated that sexual harassment knows no favorites. 
One witness for him and one for her disclosed that they, too, had been victimized. 
-Being a black woman you 
know you have to put up with a lot... Ellen Wells told the committee of 14 white male se­nators. •5o you grit your teeth and you do it,· she said, adding that she had been Mtouched in the workplace" more than once. 
The contrast in testimony was striking. Hill ..said that Clarence Thomas had repeatedly asked 

her out,· Heen:hner said. MSbe told me that or {;0U1'Se she had refused, but he wouldn't take no for an answer.· 
Hoerchner said Hill told her that Thomas repeated his en­treaties. saying ..fm your type, fm your kind of man and you refuse to admit it. • 
More than six hours later 
came an entirely ditTerent story, one depicting Thomas as a man completely incapable of such action -and Hill as anything but a meek victim. 
..I know he did no such thing; said Nancy Elizabeth Fitch, a former assistant to him at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission...I trust Judge Thomas completely. • 

cisions for other students. Apart from religion, respect as he did recently. warning, Bradley said, ..It 
•1 discourage anybody from for all people is an ..issue of ..Because I've certainly seen seems to me that du Lac is sub­
Peace 

being a tool• Vore said. basic human rights," Poorman a lot of homophobia on this ject to various interpretations. I 
mntinued from page 1 
enjoy the privilege of spon­sorship ofactivities. 
·u the event for which the World Peace Action Group has sought approval is in fact a ve­hicle for sponsorship of an ac­tivity by an unrecognized stu­dent group, the World Peace Action Group. as sponsors of the event, would be in violation ofdu Lac." 
Kirk said Sunday that he did not attend the meditation, and had no indication that the group had violated du Lac. He said that if the World Peace Ac­tion Group felt they were sup­porting a good cause, they were not in violation. 
He said he did not care to "question people's motives" to find out why a group might lend support to a cause it did not favor, and reiterated that 

..Human rights aren't just for one small segment of the popu­lation, • he said during the me­diation...These are issues that affect aU ofus." 
Poorman said the idea for a meditation came up at an open meeting Wednesday where campus groups joined to dis­cuss human rights issues. 
Someone brought up that Friday was National Coming Out Day, Poorman said, and asked if anything was planned. Members of the World Peace Action Group thought it "a good opportunity to address issues that are dividing campus, and to try to make a stand for all people to be accepted,• she said. 
"It was not a specific 'will you do this for us' at all," Poorman said, adding, "We are speaking out for gay and lesbian rights. or course gays and lesbians are said. 
Vore, wearing a ..safe sex" T­shirt condoning the use of con­doms, and picturing two men in an embrace, said during the mediation, ''I'm a gay man and I'm part of the Notre Dame family, and I think it's time people open their eyes and realize that... 
..When I talk about the need for everybody to realize issues of peace and justice... at this place, you're going to hit some walls when you do that," Vore said. 
He called the administra­tion's warning against recog­nized organizations being used as tools by unrecognized orga­nizations one of the first obsta­cles. 
"I speak before you as a graduate student, those of you who know things about the uni­campus, • he said. 

Bradley related an experience in the 1950s of going to a gay bar with a group of people, one of whom, Bradley said, punched a gay man without provocation. Later, be said, the man showed pride in the blood on his fist. 
lhey say we gays are sick. _ . it seems to me be's the sickest person I have ever seen," Bradley said. He also spoke of people outside a courthouse cheering for defendants ac­cused ofkilling a gay man. 
..If you don't think that there is homophobia, and you don't think that it kills people-not only kills the spirit, but some­times kills the body as well-think of episodes like that. • 
Regarding Student Affairs' 
don't see how having a speaker in, even though he is from another organization, can be viewed as speaking for that organization." 
Bradley called the adminis­tration's refusal to recognize the organization homophobic and out of touch with what is really happening on campus. 
..I don't see how the office of Student Affairs can continue to take that attitude, in light of an ad published in The Observer from Campus Ministry, urging everybody in the community to combat homophobia; Bradley said. 
.. Everybody knows we're here, what's this problem with being paranoid about implying its existence?" he said. ·u that's not a prime example of homophobia, I don't know what 
is... 




The Observer

~a~~ber14, 1991 pageS 

Notre Dame junior Diana Cespedes and senior Scott Kluge flank senior Chad Kerlin, whose broad smile reflects his profound satisfaction with Cavanaugh's SYR Saturday night. 
len and the llrt of Motorcvcle Maintenance 
set an entire generation . 
on the path. \ 
\ 


Now at last,


the extrao"'-inary journey
cont1nues. 
~~~~&~l!~-~~~==-=-=-=-~····=·~~:=·····=··~==· ~ 
"Zen and the Art ofMotorcycle Maintenance was like a first child. Maybe that will always be the best-loved one. But this second child is the bright one. I think a lot of people will argue with some of the ideas in ULA. There may be controversy. But if people are still reading these two books ahundred years from now. I predict ULA will be the one they consider the more important:' 
-Robert M. Pirsig 

llSO av11um • BMTAM ••o I:ISSETTE 
A&\NfAM HARDCOVERl!J 

Hill passes lie detector test on charges 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Anita Hill on Sunday passed a lie de­tector test on her statements that Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas made sexually explicit remarks to her, a polygraph expert said. 
Paul Minor. president of American International Security Corp. of Fairfax Va., told reporters outside the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing room that he had concluded she was telling the truth in her ac­cusations that Thomas sexually harassed her. 
Such tests are not universally admissible in court. One of Hill's attorneys, Charles Ogletree, said they would not formally submit the results to the committee. 
Minor said he put four ques­tions to Hill. asking if she had lied in her testimony or fabri­cated remarks that she at­tributed to Thomas. 
~She answered no. There was 
Poll: Majority of U.S. doesn't believe Hill 
NEW YORK (AP) -A major­ity of Americans in a poll re­leased Sunday said they were not inclined to believe the charges against Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas. More men than women rejected Anita Hill's sexual harassment allegations against him. 
The ABC News-Washington Post poll was taken Saturday, after Hill and Thomas appeared before the Senate Judiciary Committee but before the testimony of two panels of wit­nesses -one defending Thomas and the other support­ing Hill. 
Fifty-five percent of those surveyed didn't believe the sex­ual harassment allegations against Thomas, 34 percent ac­cepted Hill's allegations as true and 12 percent had no opinion. 
F ll r "' l' n 1 ll r '\ u r .., 1 11 g "' t 11 d l' 11 t .., 


A seminar to help you prepare for personal and professional decisions. 
November 1 & 2,1991 Mayo Medical Center • Rochester, Minnesota 
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS 

• Laughter: A Gift of Your Being to Light Up Dark Places • Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse • Enhancing Your Personal and Professional Image 
BREAKOUT SESSIONS 

• Financial Planning • Critical Care Nurse Internship Program • Preparing for Your Job Search • Collaborative Practice-What It Is And What It Isn't • State Boards: Are You Ready? • Healthcare in a Changing Environment • New Kid on the Block 
$10 registration fee covers sessions, instruction materials and food. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants. 
Deadline for registration is October 22. 1991 
Calll-800-54.5-0357 outside Rochester, or (507) 286-8579 for ~tration information and brochure. 

Nursing Horizons is sponsored by Mayo Center for Nursing Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 
Mu114• Fou~r~ltrtmu l!O ,,trffjrr11aln't' 111:twu nmt t'll""'''l'l"lrtrmil.ll t'llunrtc•r ,,,,,.,,,,h,.llt'r A .Smukt• Fn'l'luMrtutwu. 

no indication of deception to any of the relevant ques­tions ... ," Minor said outside the hearing room. "It's therefore my opinion Ms. Hill is truthful." 
Hill has testified that when she worked for Thomas at two government agencies in the early 1980s, he pressed her for dates and used graphic sexual language in conversation with her. 
Thomas has emphatically de­nied each of Hill's allegations. The questions on the poly­graph test were: 
•Have 
you deliberately lied to me about Oarence Thomas? 

•Are 
you fabricating the al­legation that Clarence Thomas discussed pornographic mate­rial with you? 

•Are 
you lying to me about the various topics that Oarence Thomas mentioned to you re­garding specific sexual acts? 


•Are you lying to me about 
Hill, a law professor at the University of Oklahoma, said Thomas asked her for dates, described pornographic movies and bragged of his own sexual prowess while she worked for him at the U.S. Education De­partment and later the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in the early 1980s. 
Men said they believed Thomas' denials by 56 percent to 20 percent, with 24 percent undecided. Among women, 38 percent believed Thomas, 28 percent supported Hill and 33 percent were undecided. 
The poll's analysts said about half of those questioned said Thomas should be confirmed, a percentage roughly unchanged from previous polls. But for the first time a ~statistically mean-Oarence Thomas malting refer­ences to you about the size of his penis? 
Bush. asked earlier in the day whether both Thomas and Hill should take polygraph tests, said ~~ think it's a stupid idea.M 
He said: "If the idea is chal­lenging the word of one over another. to use the lie detector test in that way, I reject it. M 
Sen. Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who is on the judiciary committee, called the polygraph result a ~very signif­icant development." 
'It's not important that it be formally entered in the record,M said Sen. Herb Kohl, 0-Wisc., who also is on the committee. ~we all know." 
Ogletree, a Harvard law pro­fessor, said Hill wanted to take the test in light of the attacks made on her motives and in­tegrity by Republican senators defending Thomas. 
ingful split" along gender lines has developed on this question, they said. 
Among men, those who be­lieve Thomas should be con· ftrmed rose from 51 percent to 59 percent and opposition rose from 23 percent to 28 percent since Wednesday. 
The percentage of women who believe Thomas should be confirmed remained at 43 percent, with opposition rising from 23 percent to 31 percent. 
Women were twice as likely to be undecided on whether he should be confirmed, 26 per­cent compared with 13 percent of men. 
The poll, based on a national telephone sampling of 513 adults, had a margin of error or plus or minus 5 percentage points. 
• Haon: IIIDn. • Fri. I:GN:al -· 
• ....i:ow:oo 
f. 
• .! 
: MAPLE LANE :.: : BARBER SHOP:
• i..•
• 2112 Soultl Bend A.._ 
• Soultl a.nd, IN 411.17 ~ •­
• "PPP*-•....... i~. 
• 272-6722 :~ ,. 
•Budget 
airfares anywhere. 

•International 
studentairfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued here. 

•lntemat'lldentity 
cards. 


•World.vide 
adventure tOll'S. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 


•Expert travel advice. 



Council Trautd 
1153 N. Dearborn St, lohd F1cor Chic.a!P. II 60610 
311-951-0585 
call For A Free 199~ Student Travel cac.log! 




pageS The Observer Monday, October 14, 1991 
Attacks on foreigners erupt in Germany 



Deadline 
continued from page 1 
Merrifield post office box. All applications delivered before the deadline are disqualified. 
State Department officials predicted they would receive 5 million applications. But by Sunday, the Postal Service al­ready had processed 4 million, and was sorting through an­other 2 million, spokesman Robert Faruq Sr. said. 
Although the State Depart­ment tried to discourage immi­grants from bringing the appli-


Gleason 
continued from page 1 
cording to Gleason. 
Unlike the Jesuits, who dom­inated higher Catholic learning, the Holy Cross fathers could concentrate all of their efforts on Notre Dame, he said. The Jesuits' efforts were somewhat dissipated due to the number of schools that they had under their control, he said. 
"Notre Dame was the center­piece of Holy Cross education," said Gleason. 
The lack of tradition of the Holy Cross order allowed the fathers to do as they wanted as they went along. he said. The Jesuits, who were established 

Stop by the Placement Office and get all the details. 
• 
Invitational Sign-up: 
September 30--0ctober 1 
Open Sign-up: October 14--15 
World of opportunity. 


Campus Interviews: November 7---S 
cations in person, Fairfax County police estimated that 30,000 immigrants visited the post office on Saturday. A like number was expected by mid­night Sunday. 
Officials said they lost control of the crowd for a few minutes Saturday evening, when hun­dreds of immigrants began shoving and throwing their ap­plications at bins lined up out­side the office. 
"For about four of five min­utes, it was crazy. It was abso­lute chaos," Faruq said. 
There were no arrests or in­juries reported. Afterward, postal workers set up more bins 
in the 1540s, were bureaucratized and rigid, with a pedagogical fear of change, Gleason said. Sorin, on the other hand, was flexible to change. 
"Notre Dame moved towards an accommodation of U.S. practices, which were unlike European practices," said Glea­son. 
James Burns, the president of Notre Dame from 1919-1922, was the most important reformer of higher Catholic ed­ucation in the first thirty years of the twentieth century, said Gleason. 
A Notre Dame graduate, Burns was instrumental in or­ganizing Notre Dame to move with the times, said Gleason. He rid the University of its prep 
ASTRONG 




PARTNERSHIP 

AND 

last year, GE hired more Notre Dame grads than ever before. Why? Just look in the mirror. There's a lot of talent under 
Jhere' s a lot of talent at GE, too. Couple this talent with technology leadership. strong fmancial performance and a management team second to none and you've got the recipe for a truly world­class company. 
and spread them around the property to disperse the crowd. 
The trickle of immigrants that began showing up early last week grew into a carnival-like event, complete with food venders, portable toilets and hundreds of yards of yellow police ribbon directing people and cars. 
Many immigrants took breaks from licking stamps to take pictures with video and still cameras, and a few said they wanted to sight-see in nearby Washington, D.C., before they returned home. 
Many brought applications for fellow immigrants. 
school, which provided a better environment for the influx of college students following World War I. 
The presidency of Burns also coincided with the era of Knute Rockne, Notre Dame football coach. This proved to be provi­dential for the University, said Gleason, because football helped to make Notre Dame well known and funded the academic program that Burns hoped to strengthen. 
In the past fifty years, Notre Dame has been exceptionally fortunate in its IPadership, ac­cording to Gleason. 
Sorin. Burns, and Hesburgh were all extremely instrumental in building Notre Dame into the international institution it is today. he said. 

Little drummer boy 
University of Pittsburgh marching band drummer, Jim Russell, en­tertains members of the NO marching band outside the Koons band rehearsal building after the NO-Pitt game Saturday. 

We're looking lor an enthusiastic individual who wants to get involved in JPW1992 
Applications lor JPW Sophomore Chairperson are available at the Student Activities Ollice. DeadHne; 3:00 Fri., Oct. 18th. 
Work one weekend a m01dh and eam $18,000 for college. 
Ifyou have the mind for college, but not the money, the Indiana Army National Guard has a golden opportunity for you. Lend us your brainpower one weekend a month and two weeks a year, and we'll give you $18,000 or more for college. 
Under the New GI Bill, you'll qualify for up to $5,000 for tuition and books. Then you'll get another $1LOOO -or more -in monthly Army Guard paychecks. Plus, a cash bonus of up to $2,000 as soon 
as you finish Advanced Individual Training. 
And ifyou have college loans, the Guard will help you pay those off, too, with up to $1,500 extra per year. No other service offers you so many educational benefits, and asks so little of your time. 
So, ifyou can spare one weekend a month for your coun!Jy, call your local recruiter. And help yourself to a higher education. 
219-234-9258 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
INDIANA 
Americans at their best. 
FRANKFURT. Germany (AP) -Right-wing youths injured at least nine people in weekend attacks on foreigners, and a magazine reported the Ku Klux Klan was recruiting members among German neo-Nazis and "skinheads." 
The attacks were the latest in a spate of violence against refugees in this newly reunited nation, which has had a sharp increase in Eastern European and Third World refugees since the collapse of Communism made travel abroad easier. 
Police say rightist-oriented youths, who blame foreigners for taking away jobs and scarce housing in Germany, are mainly responsible. 

Police in the southern states of Bavaria, Baden-Wuerttem­berg, and the eastern states of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern and Brandenburg reported fire­bombs and rock-throwing raids on homes for asylum seekers and refugees from the Soviet Union. 
Meanwhile. a major German news magazine reported Satur­day that the Klan was recruit­ing members among extreme rightist groups. 
The Hamburg-based weekly Spiegel magazine said the U.S.­based racist and anti-Semitic group was concentrating on the new eastern states. where xenophobia has been most prevalent. 
Bavarian police said five for­eigners were injured when "skinheads" forced their way into an asylum home and ig­nited a blaze with fireworks in the southern town of Immen­stadt early Sunday. 
One occupant jumped out a second-story window in panic and was hospitalized with seri­ous bone fractures. The others suffered smoke inhalation. cuts and bruises. Police arrested three suspects. 
Police in Schwerin, in the northeastern state of Mecklen­burg-Vorpommern, said two people were seriously injured in similar attacks late Saturday and early Sunday. 
the Dome. 





Business 
Monday, October 14, 1991 page 7 

Bush meeting with 'Big Three' on hold 
DI·:THOIT (API -Prepara­tions for a nwnting among l'rHsidnnt Bush and the chair­mPn of the Big Thnw automak­
•n·s this wnnk about elnetric cars have lmnn put oil', sourens at two of tlw automaknrs said Friday. 
T lw sou rePs, s pn akin g on condition of anonymity. said 'llwy had lwnn told that sehnduling conflicts pnwented Bush from confnrring with the top nxHcutivns of Gnnnral Mo­tors Corp .. Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. 
Th1! White llousn confirmed that Bush would remain in Washington. 
Last week, tlw sourees said 
there was a good chance Bush would visit the Detroit area and meet with Robert Stempel of GM, Harold Poling of Ford and Lne lacoeea of Chrysler. 
The Big Three formed a con­sortium, which later was joinnd by the federal Department of Energy, to develop technology for a battery capable of power­ing an automobile. 
There has been speculation that the governmHnt, through the Energy Department, would provide money to the consor­tium. 
The big problem in electric vehicle development centers on range and recharging capabili­ties. 
Magnavox changes name 

FOHT WAYNE, Ind. (API -A Fort Wayne-based defense con­tractor has changed its name to reflect what its chairman said will be a business broader than just the government and defense sectors. 
Magnavox Government and Industrial Elnctronies Co. on Oct. 1 became Magnavox Elec­tronic Systems Co. 
The name change reflects the company's strategy to more aggn!ssively sell its products in the commercial marketplace, but "defense electronics will continue to be the mainstay of our business base," said James Loomis, chairman and chief ex­ecutive officer. 
Magnavox supplies military eleetronics for communieations, antisubmarine warfare, ordnance electronics, infrared systems and other areas. It also produces· commercial satellite navigational and com­munications systems. 
Since it was acquired by Dutch-owned North American Phillips Corp. in 1975, Mag­navox has operated under trustee ownership so it can continue defense contract work. 
Observer File Photo President Bush, seen here during his 1988 presidential campaign, has postponed a meeting with the "Big Three" American automakers because of schedule conflicts. 
Tired of getting ripped off? The Student Task Force on Crime invites you to meet with the officers who patrol local neighborhoods. Get tips on how to.· -STUDENT•keep your valuables secure over break IOJIIIIflr •join neighborhood watch •avoid being cited for having a party •services offered -special officer patrol of your area -secure storage of valuables on campus Refreshments afterwards Tuesday, Oct. 75 ­CSC-7:30 pm  


~ -­


Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, October 14, 1991 


-~Ih-e-0-bse.-~~er­
--. ----.1..-=Y.:! . -­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Kelley Tuthill 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
· Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .......•.......... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ..•...•.... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ....•....... Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni'lersity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Homophobia stems from ignorance 
Dear Editor: 
In reference to his letter printed on October 8, I do not feel that Mr. Ouellette accom­plished his stated purpose of evaluating the "entire situation for what it's worth." The situa­tion of which he writes is the controversy of "safe havens" which in my eyes is a subtle dis­guise for the gay/lesbian ques­tion. 
Mr. Ouellette's evaluation de­generated from a discussion of safe havens to an open letter on the evils of homosexuality. I find it a shame that he and others in the Notre Dame "family" would puke at the sight of same sex couples displaying affection. This sentiment hints at the same homophobic qualities, and I use this term loosely, which he vehemently denies possessing. 
As he states, every student agrees to abide by the nondis­crimination policies in du Lac. What reason is there for dorms to reaffirm this policy? 
I am proud of what my don:n, Stanford Hall, did in their reso­lution. I was at that meeting and the resolution was passed unanimously. 
A possible reason for this was the fact that those who were worried about passing this resolution were placated by the admission that was be-
DOONESBURV 
ing done by it other than the maintenance of the status quo. A resolution any stronger would have bean rejected or reduced to a copy of the one passed. It must still be noted that many dorms did not feel comfortable even endorsing the status quo. 
Had the dorms on campus wanted to do anything more than brush this issue aside, with deft political spin, they would have considered a larger question. Perhaps the passing of a bill suggested by Mr. Yore would have forced the administration to enforce it's policy. Perhaps the administration would have even applied du Lac to themselves. 
Mr. Ouellette's comparison of homosexuality to beastiality and drug abuse were unnecessary, but they do illustrate a belief prevalent at this institution. They make allusions that homosexuality is evil, perverse, and a sin. The act of sodomy is denounced in the Bible but homosexual love is not. Not all homosexuals are sexually active, just as not all heterosexuals are. If they were, then they would also be committing a sin. 
It is this attitude which insures that "that gay and lesbian group" will remain off 
indefinite It seems 
-
IF I OffCR&I) YW 

TRi!THf'UU.Yr
A J0/3ATA 7HIRP 
UM.. 50YOU NO, NO. I

OfCOURSt. IN 
OF7HI3~AN!J 
HAV13AN IAJA~JU5T

7H/3 Bt-INI< OF
IAJ!TH NON& Of 7HI3 

OPI3NIN6? a/ON0/3RIN6
AN 
~8/UTYCY' 

HOIAJ BAI?IT
I

YOUF.. LA~ P05/~ ~WT 
IAJOUW '1WACttPT? 7Htf/?b. 
\ 
that that is "where the queers are in '91." As a progressive institution, we could support ..., 
Catholics demanding that the Church rethink its stance on non-marital monogamous relationships. 
we should be able to, as Father Warner asks, "examine our ex­pressed and sometimes implicit negative attitudes" towards gays and lesbians and "if we are simply reluctant to do so, it is only with difficulty that we can call ourselves followers of Jesus Christ in any meaningful way. "If we hold Christ as our model, then we too will embrace those with whom we do not agree. 
Mr. Ouellette also. embraces a right which is not his. He asserts that one cannot judge people because of who they are, but one can, in making a moral decision, judge a person by their actions. He writes that, " Everyone will discover what right and wrong actually is when they die." It is for that reason, Mr. Ouellette, that we are not capable of judging others, by their actions or otherwise. 


Co-ed dorms would benefit N D students 
Dear Editor: 

You are now about to enter the twilight zone. Notre Dame, an all boys Catholic school was unwilling to accept any changes. Until along came an individual who thought that girls should also attend. I am pretty sure that when this was proposed it was a far fetched idea. The question that is being brought up now is why are there no co-ed dorms. 
Even though the concept of co-ed dorms requires great responsibility from the students' part, the maturity level of Notre Dame students should be high enough to uphold the rules of du Lac. 
In short, college is a pre-game warm-up for the real world. Surviving in today's world re­quires much responsibility. A responsibility that co-ed dorms could provide. The experience that would be learned while liv­ing with the opposite sex would 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAV 
'Why will you take by force what you may have by love?' 
Chief Powatan 1697, Colony of Virginia 
Just Submit It: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,IN 46556 
be a beneficial factor to the knowledge of an individual. With the growth of the co-ed dorm, there will be a growth in the understanding of the opposite sex. Along with the understanding that will be gained, the respect level will also increase. 
By no means is this an aban­donment of rectors or resident assistants but simply an ad­vancement on the present sys­tem. I guess one could call it an amendment being added to the constitution. Think. parietals will be a thing of the past, co-ed dorms will be a thing of the present, and a better understanding of the real world will be a thing of the future. Who is to say, maybe one day in the near future we will see females on the first floor, males on the second floor, and so on. 
Travis Davis Stanford Hall 
Oct 9, 1991 

Viewpoint
Monday, October 14, 1991 page 9 


Turn your hat backwards and resist the status quo 
Thn othnr day I was con­got in his jar each night, the mainstream and come some sort of bohmnian
Guy Loranger 
frontnd by onn of my elders in flirting with less than even eventually drop-out from intellectual. Ilow could I'? 
Viewpoint Copy Editor
lif''· a priest walking his dog dose to attrar.tive women and school. This seems equally Aftflr all, I'm a ·post-Woodstock 
through tlw marshy tnrrain of swapping stories about that self-serving, for denying child. It's just that the faets tlw North Quad, lin "great Irish" football team. Holden, in an abstract sense. oneself of an education just an~ there to support my belief !'ommPntnd on the "unusual" flven though hn bet against ean be identified with the col­because of pressure to be #1, that our generation is heading hack wards position of tlw those "damn 'Donwrs'" ~very lege students of our is still a r.owardly sell-out. towards a highly disgusting basd>all hat on my !wad. Saturday afternoon. generation, specifically at Granted, to many Holden trend. 
1IP WPnt on to romnwnt that I wanted to say how much I Notre Dame. We are growing· was this kind of a "basket­In looking at the sad failures hP had Sf'Pil an increasing could never understand why up in the post-Woodstock era ease" as well as a "spoiled of Holden, and (crudely a Ill 0 u n t 0 r .. y0 u n g Iads.. someonn would giv11 up a free (I ehoose this event as a brat Wflirdo" who didn't have enough) Chip. one must walking about campus with chance at an odueation while symbolic starting point in enough common sense to realize the somewhat nobility tlwir hats worn in much the playing a sport tlwy loved just history), and thus are being simply "grow-up" and ar.cept in being a collegfl student, for same styln. for the sake of foolishly earned thrown into an intimidating his lot in life. Yet. these are we have the r.hoir.e to dnddP 
"Ah." lw murnhiPd almost in­money. "Sorry dude, but I'm society. many of the same people who our path in life. However, it is colwrnntly. "IIoldnn Caul lin ld, thn eatr.her in tlw rye," I eould Like the "catcher in the rye" refuse to ar.knowledge sanity essential for us to r.hoose with nh'? 01' catdwr in tlw rye, eh'? only reply while tightoning my we are faced with life as a in a student who prolongs our hearts that we will not Oh well..." lin took a final drag eap and walking away from sink or swim proposition. elaiming his or her major, or sell-out in either sense of tlw from his cigarnttP, tossPd it Chip, bartender-at-large. After the Heaganornic 80s, we at least choosing one of term. out into tlw air, caliPd for his The Catcher in the Rye (for· must cope with the personal and not financial In essence, life is out therfl dog, and walked onward those who aren't already disappearance of a middle­rewards. ("An English major? for us to grasp, and although wearing a grin I could not familiar) is .J.D. Salinger's class, and the creation of an Well, you better get good societal pressurfl is present in ligurn out. story of Holden Caulfield, a either lower or upper-r.lass grades so you can get into law evflry step along the way, it's 
Tlw episode reminded mn of confusHd young man who structure in our country. school or something!") They time to resist and "grow-up" wiH•n I was a sophomore in !Haves his eastern prep school Therefore, by going to Notre r.annot see the need to place with a touch of class. After all, high sehoul. I worked as a (ironir.ally, he was flunking out Dame for a degree, many are meaning first, and only view I'm not sure if our country part-time ('(JOk at a popular as wnll) to wandflr around in labeled as hoping to "graduate the more "realistic" financial (with all regards to Dr. llunter area sports bar and n~stau­Nnw York City for a few days, and write my own paycheck." goals one should supposedly S. Thompson) can take rant. Orw day, as I dockPd in bflfore returning horne for (I overheard Chip mumble this strive to ar.hieve. another "genflration of swinfl" to bngin my shift, llw lwad Christmas. lie encounters one day.) harlPndPr, "Chip," approadwd sevnral characters during his In facing thH realities of the For instance, in 1987, the All of this sort of hit me as nw with an angry look on his journey that reassure him that future, it is frightening that University of California con­the priest slowly walked farl'. liP pointPd at my hat. soeinty doesn't make rnur.h many students have this exar.t ducted a survey of college onward, because I noticed the and lookPd dnl!~rmirwd to snt sflnse at all. By thn end of the attitude. In essence, they are freshmen. Over 75% stated many backwards hats he lllP on tlw straight and upright book, tlw only thing he is sure willing to let "sr.hooling get in that being "financially well mentionfld. I guflss I kind of path as to how I should wnar of is that he does not want to the way of education." Some off" was a highly essential bflgan to share that same it. "Only a-holes and catdwrs r.onform to society's norms by will choose a degree with goal, while only about a9% unbfllievable grin. llowflver, it wPar tlwir hats bal'kwards, "growing-up" and ber.oming hardly any personal satisfar.­believed in developing a was just for an instant. I once and I don't SPP no catdwr's just another "flit." tion so as to get a high-paying "meaningful philosophy in again pulled down on tlw hat mill in yer hand!" llowever, although he was job. Even Chip went back to life." These statistics take on so it would tighten, pulled the 
Chip had won a hasl'hall not interested in what school school to finish his degree, be­even more meaning when collar of my jacket up against s!'holarship at Indiana Univer­or many of the people around cause he "was havin' a tough compared to a similar surveys, the r.old wind, and squinted sity-Bloomington. llownvnr. him ol'fered, he still found time making car payments." such as in 1969 when 40% put my eyes as I headed onward his Sl'holarship was nwoknd de1~p joy in writing For some, I suppose this is the emphasis on financial stabilty, into the blinding light of the upon his dropping out from compositions and reading necessary path to exist in life. and in 1967 when an modern sun. s!'hool. . books. In one spHeilic case, he However. others may ber.orne inr.redible 83% sought a 
I wanted to tnll this "know-it­reads The Return of the Native overwhelmed by the societal meaningful philosophy. Guy Loranger is a freshman all" jl'rk what a cheaply­while wearing a deer-hunting expectations of a Notre Dame I'm not crying out for every­in the College of Arts and bought sell-out lw was to the cap turned bar.kwards, his student, and (as Holden chose) one to renounce all that's ma­Letters and a Copy Editor in all-powPrful grePnbaek lips lw "peoplfl-hunting r.ap." will decide to withdraw from terial in the world and to be-the Vieu•point Department 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Confirmation hearings are childish partisan struggles 
Dear Editor: experienr.e. Tho11,.1as is far quite likely that the Soviets did analysts came forward citing lions of Clamnce Thomas and 
Tlw confirmation hearings of from a worthy successor to the mastermind the attempt on the cases of his close-mindedness Robert Gates, right? The ClarPnce Thomas and HobPrt legendary Thurgood Marshall. Pope's life. In rer.ent testimony and presented documents and Democrats say right. The He­(;atns haw given the Arnerir.an Hobert Gates' nomination is Gates admitted that this report testimony of Gates' attempts to publicans say, "Not gonna do it. people some good entertain­just as ridiculous. First of all, was a worst-case scenario, and skew analyses to make them Wouldn't be prudent." ment and a nPw pnrspeetive on tlw man has already been de­that it slipped his mind to coherent with his and Casey's And therein lies the problem tlw confirmation procnss. But I nied the job. That alone should mention that in the cover views. These are not just em-with these hearings. They have submit that these hearings give raise eyebrows. lie has already memo. The same kind of bittered former subordinates, been nothing more than parti­us a chanr.P to see whetlwr admitted to lying to Congress­exaggeration went on in reports but people who will be working san struggles. Most of the ·r. Congress is living up to its re­another fact whir.h by itself is about Soviet involvement in under him if he is c·onfirmed-Congressmen had their minds sponsibilities to the American grounds for denying confirma­lran and Nicaragua. people with a lot to lose. made up when the hearings be­pnophL tion. If these reports had been true The simple fact that so many gan and decided to stick by 
Clarnnce Thomas. The man is But wait! There's more! at the time, Gates would be people with everything to lose Thomas and Gates regardless of a walking contradiction-just There are substantially docu­clean. But most intelligence and/or nothing to lose have the evidence against them. look at his history. lie is an af­mented examples of his misrep­gathered in the latter part of come forward -with legitimate Many, by the same token, had firrnativfl action success story. resentation of facts to the the 1980s pointed to a snow­conr.erns is enough to cast se-decided to vote against tlwrn lie rose out of poverty into po­President. As deputy director, balling contraction of Soviet rious doubts on the wisdom of just to oppose the Bush admin­sitions of great power. and he he was supervisor to the ana­power and influence; Hobert r.onfirming the nomination of istration. admits that none of this would lysts in the CIA, the people who Gates was selectively distribut­these men to positions of great This stubborn, blind defense have been possible without the draw conclusions from the ing evidence to support his and power. of nominees about whom seri­assistance of aflirmative action; reams of information gathered Casey's views, which amounts 1 realize the difficulty of find-ous doubts have been raised the lwir shows no respect for by intelligenr.e. lie had com­to giving false information to ing another Thurgood Marshall, prevents Congress from doing his bmwfactor. plete control over the flow of policy makers. but it is obvious that Clarence its job of confirming not just 
Ill' supports a conservative, information to the Congress and If you're not convinced by the Thomas is not the most good nominees, but the best literal, strict intl~rpretation of the President and he used this evidence and the histories of qualified, nor the most nominees for critical jobs in the the constitution and yet control to misinform them. these nominees, consider the experienced, nor the most con-American government. It emhracns the limitless concept Gates and William Casey, numerous testimonies given to sistent man to sit on the highest means not choosing "the He­of natural law. And the most former director of the CIA, the confirmation committees: court in the land. publican nominee" or "the shocking eontradiction of all is viewed the U.S.S.H. as a terror­Four law professors from the He is just the best man to Democratic nominee," but the contained in the allegations of a ist-sponsoring, expansionist finest schools in the nation op­carry out Bush's agenda in the right one. And this is not highly-respflctnd law professor power whose every move was a posed the confirmation of intelligence, a man who clings merely Congress' job, it is that while heading the EEOC, threat to U.S. interests, and Clarence Thomas, citing their to obsolete world views and Congress' responsibility, a duty Thomas sexually harassed an they wanted everyone to see the fears that were Thomas con­who uses his control of we the people have entrusted to ernployfle repnatedly. Soviets' way. So they would se­firmed, the progress the court information to make people see it. 
1lis qualifir.ations pale beside lect and distribute the bits and has made in the areas of civil the challenges of a new world If the present members of thosn of his prnder.essor Thur­pieces of information which rights and privacy could be re­order. Gates is not the best Congress are not going to live ... good Marshall-an extraordi­supported their view and would versed and landmark decisions man for this job. Neither man up to their responsibility to act nary litigator, a visionary, a gloss over the enormous overturned. That same day of is the best man for the job. The in the best interests of the peo­man with extensive legal expe­amounts which refuted it. This testimony, the only words in only thing Thomas and Gates ple by confirming qualified rience. The man who tried is evidenced in Gates' report to praise of Thomas carne from his will ever be the best at is people to key positions, we 
what was arguably tlw most the President regarding Soviet second grade teacher-a nun carrying out President Bush's might have to replace them important casn of this country: involvement in the assassina­whose contribution was that policy goals. with members who will. 
-
Brown vs. Board of Edur.ation.  tion of the Pope.  Clarence was a good little boy  So here's where the Congress  
Thomas' qualification?  ltfl's the  This report, contrary to the  and shared his crayons with his  comes in and prevents a big  Matl Umhofer  
most eonservative black Bush  testimony before Congress two  classmates.  mistake.  Here  is  where  Cavanaugh Hall  
could  find  with  any  legal  years earlier. said that it was  In Gates' hearings, numerous  Congress deaies the nomina- Oct. 9, 1991  


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp A demolished car from an alcohol-related accident is on display in front of the library until Friday as one of the features in Alcohol Awareness week at Saint Mary's. 
A devastated car has been sit­abstinence, which Ptak calls the week based on donations "The beer companies are big residence halls. ting on the Saint Mary's Library from various beer companies promoters of Alcohol Awareness "Clean and Sober" will be Circle since Friday. and the support of local busi­Week," said Ptak. Posters and shown Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the 
nesses. fact cards have been provided Science Hall by the Popular

'Everywhere you turn
"A car and a person can be The alcohol awareness cam­by Coors and Anheuser-Busch. Culture Group and the Social dead within . 7 seconds, if (in paign will begin with the "tie Anheuser-Busch is offering a Action Club, which will also

there's alcohol. What
an) alcohol-related (accident)," one on" campaign. Red rib­$20,000 scholarship for the emphasize to students the risk said Michelle Ptak, member of bons symbolizing responsible winner of a poster contest for of alcohol and its abuse. 

we wanted to 

an SMC alcohol peer awareness drinking will be offered to each college students. Alcohol Awareness aims to do group. student. Each student who While Notre Dame has not just that: make students aware.

promote was

The disfigured heap in front wears a ribbon to Coach's will organized any activities "A twelve-ounce glass of beer of the library was the car of a receive a free soft drink. is equal to a one-ounce shot of 

responsible drinking.'
St. Joseph's county resident Fact cards will also be dis­'A twelve-ounce vodka. I don't think many peo­after it was in an alcohol­tributed with the ribbons. The ple realize that," said Ptak. One

-Michelle Ptak
related accident. This spectacle cards list breathalizer readings glass of beer is equal drink will effect a woman the will be on display in front of the based on various weights and same as two drinks will effect a

to a one-ounce shot
library until this Friday as a naive, a group of interested number of drinks per hour. man. part of SMC's promotion of girls have decided to educate "That (the breathalizer read­of vodka. I don't think The average glass of beer has Alcohol Awareness Week. their peers about the realities of ings) is something I don't think 100-150 calories, but can reach 
Saint Mary's will participate drinking. most students are aware of," many people realize as high as 400 calories, depend­in National Collegiate Alcohol This alcohol peer education said Ptak. ing on brand. "You think of

that.'

Awareness Week, October 13-group includes: Michelle Ptak, these beers and they seem so 
19. College campuses across the Vanessa Brehl, Courtney Messages reminding students -Michelle Ptak light, but they're not. We want country will sponsor various Champion, Michelle Hill, Sheila to "know what your limits are to stress these facts to women 
informational programs Curtis, Lynn Pfeffer, Ann Marie and know what alcohol does to specifically for Alcohol so they know," said Ptak. throughout the week to inform Jordan, McCandless Hall direc­you" will be written on chalk­Awareness Week, students of students of the effects that tor, and Dean Mary Ellen Smith, boards in various classrooms ND as well as SMC are invited "People are going to drink," 
drinking has on the body, and to director of students affairs. throughout the week. Posters Ptak said. "You just need to
to pick up an entry blank for 
promote wise decision-making. have also been distributed to
This group has planned the poster contest at the front know what it's going to do to "Everywhere you turn there's activities and promotions for the RAs. desks of all the Saint Mary's you." 
White Swan glorifies bravery in art 
By PAIGE SMORON exhibition from various Montana to buy them, 
Assistant Accent Editor public museum collections. making White Swan the The Snite owns the earliest of proprietor of one of the his paintings, which were earliest tourist businesses in 
Everybody knows about created with bone paint America. Custer's Last Stand at the applicators and traditional "He didn't compromise his Battle of Little Big Horn, but paints on muslin or paper. art or just crank out how many have heard of the Depicting more than thirty paintings, though," said Battle of Big Shoulder Blade? separate battle victories, Bradley. "These were works 
White Swan had the White Swan had strong he took great pride in, and he distinction of not only being motivation on the battle field inserted himself in everythere, but of recording his as well as in his art. "As a painting, carrying a pennantadventures in watercolor. member of the Crow tribe, and bearing wounds on his 
White Swan, who was a White Swan became a scout leg. White Swan has native American U.S. Army to avenge himself against his interpreted his own life in Scout from 1876-1881 and enemies, the Cheyenne and these works." 
served under Colonel Custer, the Sioux Indians," said Bradley will interpret White immortalized his battle Bradley. Swan's paintings as well as accomplishments in a series Avenge White Swan did, his life in a noontalk on of paintings, twelve of which killing upwards of 35 men Tuesday, November 12 from will be on exhibit at the Snite and carefully recording his 12:10 to 12:55 p.m. in the Museum of Art in the feats. As an extremely O'Shaughnessy Galleries Museum's O'Shaughnessy successful warrior, he had West. On Thursday,Galleries until December 15. many chances to hone his November 14, he will also 
"Every man, once he had skills. "White Swan is unique speak on White Swan in the proved himself in battle, had in that he had the Snite's Annenbergthe right to portray his most oppportunity and the right to Auditorium at 4:15p.m.
impressive feats in a evolve as a painter," said pictograph, a pictorial record Bradley. "There is a definite And following in White of his bravery in battle," said progression in his work to a Swan's marketing tradition, 
Douglas E. Bradley, curator three-tiered compositional Bradley has assembled a of the Arts of the Americas, structure, more catalogue, picturing White Africa and Oceania Gallery at experimentation with color Swan's works in the the Snite. "White Swan must and spacing, and much more exhibition and featuring the have been a hell of a warrior, detail." first extensive treatment of 

White Swan's "Pictographic War Record," circa 1881, depicts his own triumphs in because so many of his works By the 1890's, white his painting style, which will battle. Twelve of White Swan's works will be on display at the Snite Museum are still with us." settlers had heard of his be available for sale in the until December 15. Bradley assembled the paintings and traveled to museum shop. 

The Observer 
page 11 

-

Notre Dame 42 Pittsburgh 7 October 12, 1991 
Eric Jones (left) and Bryant Young (right) block an Alex VanPeh pass, helping to make for a frustrating day for the Pitt offense 


The Observer/ Jake Pe11111 Pete Bereich takes aim at tailback Curtis Martin of Pittsburgh. Bereich was later forced to leave the game with an injury. 

The Observer/Jake Peters Jerome Bettis (center), who rushed for 125 yards and two touchdowns, drives into the end zone for a score. 
The Obntver/ Elisa Kloa_,., Rick Mirer (with ball), who rushed for eight more yards than he threw for, scores a touchdown. Covering for Pitt is Elexious Perkins. 
-
-~----~---------­
page12 The Observer 
SIUI1S BRIEFS 

-.-rhe YMCA-South Bend table tennis dub is .SMC Sportswriters: There will be a meeting 
announcing its winter league. Anyone interested in forming a three-man team from Notre Dame, to compete for $700 in prizes, ed Brad at 654­8345. 
liThe Notre Dame men's basketball team will 
be holding walk-on tryouts on Tuesday, October 15 from 7 to 9 p.m. in the J.A.C.C. All are welcome. 
•SMC Varsity Basketball tryouts will be October 15. from 6-8 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 
tonight at 7 p.m.. at the Saint Mary's Observer office. Any questions, call Christine 284-5331.. 
•Stepan Court time requests will be taken on Wednesday, October 16 in the Montgomery Theatre. La Fortune at 5:30 p.m. All groups wishing reserved time for their group to play basketball or volleyball, must be at the meeting. This schedule will be for the entire academic year. 
•ND/SMC women's field hockey will have practice Tuesday, October 15 at 9 p.m. in Loftus. Any questions, call Suzanne at 283-2687. 

The Observer accepts classifteds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ta 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline far next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifteds must be prepaid. The



Classifieds 
charg<> is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS NEED TENN. GA'S. Need 3 USC GA's together:::· NEED 2 USC HAVE STUDENT TICKETS TO to students or student organizations CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS, Have 3 GA's(2 together) to Steve x1743 ALL GAMES PLEASE CALL 
IN011CES 

promting our Spring Break OR 708-251-4502 AFTER 8 PM. sell/trade. #1164 KELLY 284-5404 Packages. Good Pay and Fun. Attention I I have friends coming TYPING AVAILABLE Call CMI. t-800-423-5264. WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD I NEED 2 USC G.A. 'S from California who woud love to I NEED 1 USC GA. PLEASE! 287-4082 JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? Call BARB x4761 see the Irish destroy USC Any GAs CALL ELLEN X4830. 
Earn $2500 and Free Trips Selling NEED 3 TICKETS TO NO vs. USC or student tix would be mast Desktop publishing. Able to meet Spring Break Packages to ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789-I NEED TENN. GA OR STUDENT excellent, dude. Call 277-6932 and $$$$NEED t USC GA$$$$ all typing/typesetting needs. 20 Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, 0654 TICKET give Rob your price. If Rob isn't $$$DOMINIC x2348$$$ years experience; reasonable rates. Florida! Best Trips and Prices! home listen to his excellent Call Diana 272-5259. Spring Break Travel 1-800-638-HAVE 2 STUD TIX TO ALL HOME TOM-TOM answering machine and leave a Need : 2 GA's far USC. 4 GA's 
6786. GAMES, WILL TRADE FOR TENN. X1762 message. for TENN. Call John 273-9165. TIX, OR WILL SELL. CALL 
ILOST/FOUND I 

NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL NJ JASON,287-8818. NEEDED:4-6 Tenn. GAs, any USC Trade 2 Navy GAs for 2 Tenn GAs. 
OCT t8 $$ X4456 PLEASEPLEASEPLEASEPLEASE2-tix Call Jeremy 277-4873 Call Mike X3549 IF YOU ARE THE YOUNG LADY usc usc usc usc usc usc 4 TN GA'S SEAN @289·6439 WHO DRIVES A WHITE HONDA NEED RIDE To IU (Indy good usc usc usc usc usc Need 2-4 NAVY GA'S. Will pay top Will Trade 2 USC GA's for Two CRX AND LOST HER enough) Sat. of break@ noon (after Vince Needs two GA's to see TRADE: Will trade 2 USC GA's dollar! call Jeff 234-2396 TENN Ms. Call Matt1670 SUNGLASSES AT THE CAR WASH, GMAT's) Call Steve x2366! Will Pay THE TROJANS for 2 TENN GA's STOP BY OR CALL. THE GLASSES $$ Call x3414 anytime call: 259-6956 I NEED 2 TENNESEE GA'S Need USC GAs please' HAVE BEEN FOUND. usc usc usc usc usc usc CALL COREY 277-5854 Paulx1605 
NEED Tenn/Navy GAs-please usc usc usc usc usc usc PLEASE SELL ME 2 USC GA's! LOST: GOLD CHAIN W/ DIAMOND. Chris179·1 My Grandpa really wants to I Need 2 USC GA's OLD! HEIRLOOM. BEYOND see the game. Beth x4855 -Steve X 1835 SENTIMENTAL VALUE. TRAVEL FREE!! SELL QUALITY EXCHANGE: I HAVE 2 GA'S FOR IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO SPRING BREAK VACATION TO PITT AND WILL EXCHANGE THEM HELPI I NEED 4 USC GA'S !!! I am the Lizard King and I can do KELLEY )(4294 JAMAICA. HIGHEST FOR 2 TENN GA'S. TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED anything. 
COMMISSIONS PAID. WORK FOR CALL MARIA AT 284-5132 Please call Sam Santo at PLEASE CALL FOUND: FEMALE GERMAN THE BEST! (20t)2r7-0030 (home) or ANDREA 283-1330. Happy birthday Joe Roberts. SHEPHARD MIX WITH RED SUN SPLASH TOURS MY LITTlE BROTHER AND (201) 992-8700 (work). COLLAR DRAGGING A CHAIN. 1-800-426-7710. FRIENDS WANT TO COME TO THE I NEED 3 NAVY GAs. Monica Eigelberger is a ho. FOUND ON CAMPUS. CALL ANN **NAVY.. GAME. NEED GA'S! '68 ALUM DESPERATELY Call Carol x4942. 654-8550 OR 239-6346. BEST DAMN CAMPUS REP CALL MARIA AT 284-5132 WANTS 2 GA'S TO FAST EASY INCOME' 
WANTED!!' TENN OR USC NEED GA's AND STUD. TIX TO EARN 100'S WEEKLY STUFFING LOST OR STOLEN North America's Best Damn Tour CALL JOANNE 2184 OR 3783 USC AND TENN. ENVELOPES. SEND SELF­
LICENSE PLATE Co. I need 2 TN GAs .Will pay BIG$$. JAY X1578 ADDRESSED STAMPED Illinois plate reading Only H-Life can offer you a FREE Call will at x3001. ENVELOPE TO: "D TROIT' missing since SPRING BREAK TRIP far every 20 HAVE PITT GAS I NEED 2 USC GA'S IN A BAD FAST INCOME 
Thurs. 19' Sept.; came off paid and a chance to win a i. need GAs for NAVY!!! Todd x1784 CALLxt781 WAY II Brady x1'191 P.O. BOX 641517 somewhere between Kaplan YAMAHA WAVEJAMMER. Join MAKE OFFER CHICAGO. IL 60664-1517 Educational Center (next to Turtle thousands of other campus rt>ps. Need 4 GAs for Penn State' Please Creek) and the 0·2 lot I realize it's Call Now 1-800-263-5604. call AJ X1253 GETAWAY WEEKEND cute, but it will cost a bundle to NEED 2 NAVY GAS STEVE 233-I need twa USC GA's so my parents KOONTZ HOUSE replace so PLEASE return if you i need up to 5 STUD tix for USC. 3882 can bring me back to BED 'N BREAKFAST 
have it and no questions will be FORRENT petex1791 school!! Please HELP' I don't want 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE asked!! If you have the plate or I need 2 USC tix to live at home!!! DAME info, call 491l. Generous reward BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY HELP'! Need 3 GA's for NAVY Tom #3109 Call Jeanne x2670 -leave 586-7090 offered. 219-291-7153 x2797 message 
I NEED USC,TENN,PITT,& NAVY GA EAR CANDY Found in Career & Placement House for Rent usc usc usc usc TIXS.272-6306 WVFI640am 
Red, white & blue jacket; NO key $200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 I Need 4 GAs Asap far Family >>>>>>>>>>>>>>><<<<<<<<< presents ring-8 keys including Mazda car 8am-4pm. Jenny at 3822 ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S <<<<<<< key. 1310 South Bend Ave. TO ANY HOME GAME$ > NEED USCTIX < The Jericho Sesssions 
WOULD REALLY APPRECIATE CALL COLLECT > STUDS OR GAS < LOST: Brown, brushed leather HELP' I need to sublet! 2BDRM 2 NAVY GA'S! PLEASE HELP! 812-477-2627 >>>>>>>>>>>>>>><<<<<<<<< A 73 minute CD featuring 19 jacket. Very desperate to recover APT @ TRTL CREEK -FULLY CALL TIM AT X2506 <<<<<<< original songs from 19 campus it! n If you have it, have seen it, or FURNISHED! CALL Liz x1320 NEED 4 PITT GA'S '91 ALUM LIVING LOCALLY bands. All precedes benefit the know anything about it, PLEASE FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME X 272-6343 YOUR BOOKLET WILL BE SAFE South Bend Runaway Shelter. call Robb at 1802. Reward offered. GAMES273-1802 CALL SEAN@ 273-1601 No questions asked. FORSALE Relative have never seen LEAVE MESSAGE IF NOT HOME ON SALE NOWII 
I 
l 

DESPERATELY NEED TIX FOR CONDOMS IN ACTION I AT LOST OR STOLEN t -WAY PLANE TICKET TO ST USC STUDENT OR GA. (Willing to NEED 3 USC GA'S to have I NEED USC Tl~ BAD'! LAFORTUNE !FORMATION DESK JESUS LOUIS. DEPARTS SB ON 9/19. trade) Call Ron 277-9205 their DREAMS COME TRUE CALL KEITH #1560 
He's 3-dimensional and my CALL MIKE 1640 TO MAKE Call MIKE at X2360 RA wants him back to light OFFER. Need 2 USC GAs. ·-HELP... CLUB 23 up his room. Call Cath x4276 Rich alums need tO A. F. g.a.'s. Will NEED 2 USC GA TIX & Return him with no questions COMPUTERS! Mac+. 2dd, ptr, pay $$$. Call Gus or Mike at (206) WILL PAY GOOD $$$ VIC'S SUBS asked to 316 Ranner. $700/bst John@271-9239 I NEED NAVY AND TENNGA'S 624-7990 CALL BART 271-0759 
God would want you to do it Apl//gs Supersystem, $1100 are now open from 386sx mthrbrd/upgrade your HAVE 1 PITT GA I need a Navy GA desperately NEED 2 TENN GAs 11 amto3am PC! $350, 386 notebook FOR SALE OR TRADE Call Mike x4655 Rob x357t 40megs, VGA, $2400/b The Only Alternative 
LOST GOLD "ROPE" BRACELET. Mattxt778 CALL TOM HELP! Alum needs 2 USC GAs SELL 2 STUD TlX OF REST Live Music and Specials on October 8, 1991, somewhere on X1762 Will pay $$-call Ivan @2037 HOME GAMES 272-8696 (T' Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) South Quad. Have round Trip ticket Phone: 234-4015 If found, PLEASE CALL to ATLANTA good til I need 2 GA's for USC I Please BETH #2509. Christmas Xt167 kyle HELP' I NEED 4 NAVY GAS. Help me be a little angel! My call Amy at 2706 if you can Rob Romer' 
WILL PAY$$$$ godmother needs a USC GA. Be help! Can't wait until next week! t way plane ticket from ASK FOR AL@ X1230 my savior-X3484 "Cause it's about Forgiveness" Baltimore, MD to South Bend at the TOP$$$ FOR GA TENN TXS. 
LOSJ-pearl necklace in grey end of fall break. Cheap$! Call I need a GA for Navy!! 1 Call RANDY 800-323-7687. stronger than burt eyeglass case 10/9/91 REWARD!!! 4905. ATTENTION EVERYONE: I NEED 6 Jahnelle at x2867 Kathleen 288-9421 l'ICKETS FOR THE TENN. GAME'! NEED 2 USC GA'S, Need 1 or 2 Navy GAs 
BEAT THE TAX! XMAS COMING! EVEN ONE WILL HELP!! I NEED USC GAS Will Trade Tenn Student nx and Bridget X3778 FOUND: an first floor BRAND NEW FULL-LENGTH MICHELLE 284-5536 CALL PHIL X2096 Plenty a' Cash' Niewland on 9 Oct man's SILVER FOX FUR COAT, MEDIUM. Call Dan x1236 INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. jacket. Contact Dave at 255-4139. DESPERATELY NEED 3 ST TIX Goad rates. Save Money. Call me 289-3234 and describe. NEED TIX FOR: FOR TENN. Call Kathy x3958 far a quote 9:30-6:00, 
2 UNITED AIRLINE TICKETS SB USC,TENN.,NAVY NEED 4 NAVY GAs-CALL DOC-289-1993. Office near campus. TO WESTCHESTER CO NY LEAVE call:#1518 Need TENN & USC GA's Stan 2723001

I WANTED 

NOV 7-RETURN NOV x1726 LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes 
10. $120 EACH. 291-6543 I NEED USC GAs IN A BIG WAY. every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am. OVERSEAS JOBS.$900·2000 NEED 3 TENN GA'S WILL TRADE GA'S! NEED 2 USC, My pen pal from the Gulf War is Eastern time. Train and JUmp the mo.Summer,Yr.round,AII WILL PAY BIG $ X4558 HAVE 2 NAVY JILL X3021 coming to visit-don't deny him the same day. Modern equipment and Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write I ncms chance to see a game. CALL training programs. Licensed 
IJC. PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del NEED 3 GA'S FOR TENNESEE I need 4 GA's for the USC or Navy MONICA 283-4098. instructors. FFI call Skydive Mar CA 92625. NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED. JOE X1360 game. PLEASE! Call Amy at 284-Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. 5117. Thanx. Need USC GAs. Money no object. NEED Ride/Riders to Boston, NEED TENN TICKETS BOTH STD Call Ron x2157 Irish Music & Dance@ Club 23 Rhode Island area for October WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR AND GA CALL JONATHAN AT Need 2 GA's for Navy and Every Tuesday in October Break! Please!!' Call Amy 283-TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL 601-277-9733 Tennessee. Call Tim at x1417. NEED TWO TENN. GA'S SEAMAISiN 1347. 249-3417 NIGHTS. PRICE NO OBJECT! 
-
I'll pay tap dollar for 2 GA's for USC CALL CHRIS #3364 Father Edgar has been found. He FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS $$$$$ HELP!!! I NEED NAVY GAs!! I and Tennessee. is in room 543 St. Joseph's Promote and Organize our Spring Chris 239-57t3 WANTED: 2 USC GA'S­Hospital. 
Break tours. All materials USC GA's needed. Call and leave $$$$MONEY NO OBJECT$$$$ BURGEOISE CALIFORNIA 
furnished. Good Pay and Fun. Call message 277-9468. I Need Two Tennessee Tickets So RELATIVES WILLING TO PAY BIG "I don't care what he says, I'm not Campus Marketing. 1-800-423-CALL SCOTT: x1832 ANYTIME my friends can see those Red Neck BUCKS I.E. $$$$$$$$$$$ staying out all night.· Okay, Laura' 5264 $$$$$ Vols. Call the Green-One x3409. CALL SEAN 289-6439 It's about time. 


--------------~---­
Monday, October 14, 1991 lbe Observer page13 
it Cives lt!il a better chance to caugbt up with me.~ ball to midfield on the legs of get inte~ptions, ~ Covington From midfield, the Irish drove Wdli3ms only lo have a Van Pelt _

Defense Panthers 
said. to tbe two-yard line behind pass intercepted by Wdlie Oark 

An American Company Serving America. 
Dick's Marathon 
ONE FREE TOW TO OUil STATION FOil REPAIR 
FREE (S4s.oo) FREE
y .....__..._ ___ 
Oillulte filter •J.L9S + tax and IIIHiplee o-ewi:Miooat• Pw VUlt 

DOMINO'S PIZZA APPRECITATES YOUR BUSINESS N.D./S.M.C.SO WE ARE OFFERING YOU THIS INCREDIBLE DEAL DON'T MISS OUT! CALL NOW! 
THIS WEEK ONLY LARGE PIZZA ONLY S4·99 
ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS ONLY 95e EACH (At this price you can load it up!t 
Having a BoDoween Party! Receive additional discount wltb so plzzaa or more! 
WE HAVE EXTENDED OUR HOURS TO INCLUDE LUNCH!! SUN-THU 11am-2am FRI-SAT 11am-3am 
NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S 271-0300
CHEESE SPECIAL 289-0033 
New Party Size ~ftln. cheese
...... 

$6.99. Seeoad pizza ollly 
Get a large cheese pizza ss.oo more + s.95 per
1 for only .....,. . Additional 1 toppt118• 
NOBODY 
1 toppings are only 95e each.l Offer Expires: ~0/20/9~
I OFFER EXPIRES: 10/S0/91 I KNOWS 
i II. ! II. LIKE NO'S_ 
I """'""'~..-ou,.,....., ~ •..., ...... ,.,-....... Pow:",......, c....,..... I
""'"'"''"''""...,.,.,, ___ ~......._10_..,."""'"" Ho\vYou Uke PizzaAt Home.
1 llu· "'"""., .,"\ ~\ t"PPIlOno nu~ "'~" ,. .,.,. .,...,.., ... ,., ~~ 1 
-
Culver, Derek Brown. Bettis, and Tony Brooks. 
Culver then battled up the middle for one yard, only to see his effort negated on the next play when Brooks was stopped for a three-yard loss after a Mirer pitch. Facing third and 12, Mirer .scrambiled in th'e backfield until he found Brown in the middle of the field for a 14-yard reception and a first down. 
Then, the backfield took over. Bettis slanted right for 1w1:l yards.. Brooks fought for four to the left and lunged for three on the next play. Bettis took one up the middle for four and one to the right for a big twelve yard gain. BnJoks added five more up the middle along with six more for Bettis to bring the Irish to a first and goal. 
On a play action fake, Mirer got the ball away to Irv Smith in the end zone for a touchdown before Ricardo McDonald flat­tened him. The reception in­creased the Irish lead to 21-0.. 
Pitt was more effective in its next possession moving the ball from the 20 to midfield despite a powerful pass rush. Bereich batted away a pass and Eric Jones and John Covington broke through the line forcing Van Pelt to throw the ball away in the course on the drive. 
Notre Dame got lucky after the punt as a Mirer interception by Israel was called back by a roughing the passer call against Pitt. The backfield went to work again pounding out yardage up the middle and down the field. On a fourth-and-one at the eight-yard line, Mirer kept on the option and dove across the corner of the end zone for the touchdown. 
In the final minutes of the third quarter, Pitt moved the 
on the second play of the new quarter. Oarl: returned the hall 28 yards before he was tackled by Chris Bouyer. but seconds later Mirer's long pass to Tony Smith was intercepted by Elexious Perkins. 
The drive had the look of ev­ery other Pitt drive in the game until tight end Eric Seaman caught a Van Pelt pass and ran down the sideli.ne for a touch­down. Scott Kaplan converted the point after to put the Panther-s on the board and bring the score to 28-7_ 
Keeping pace, the Irish marched down the field and scored another touchdown of their own. Bettis forced his way through the middle. broke a tackle. and rambled 30 yards for the score. The score re­mained at 35-7 until the final minutes of the game when sev­eral big rushing gains brought the Irish to the now familiar first and goal situation. Sophomore quarterback Kevin McDougal kept on an option for the touchdown and sophomore Drew Marsh made the extra point kick. 
Mit was good to win the baJI game, but the score was very deceptive. I thought Pitt played well, especially on defense. We had trouble on offense,w said Holtz. MWe had no rhythm and we couldn't get the passing game going." 
Mirer completed four of 15 passes with one interception and two touchdowns-one passing and one rushing. Notre Dame had another strong game on the ground, rushing for 340 yards. Bettis had another tOO­plus game with 125 yards on 17 carries and two touchdowns. Tony Brooks {65 for 161 and Culver '( 49 for 13) also con­tributed to the ground attack. 
continued from page 16 
Holtz. ~we put Rod Smith at strong safety. We felt we had to do that against a team like Pitt because they run a million different form&tions, and trips and motions, just create some problems." 
The defensive line, although young and inexperienced at the start of the year, has matured rapidly. 
~It (the experience) has helped out a great deal," said defensive taclde Junior Bryant. ~Game by game we get better and better, and hopefully it'll continue throughout the rest of the season. I don't think we're doing anything diUerently, we're just getting after people a little more than we had been." 
And with both the line and the secondary clicking on all cylinders. tht> Irish defense is in full gear. 
·As good as they are rushing. 
Nose taclde Bryant Young re­paid the favor. 
~The defensive backs played a large part in this because they played their men real well and that allowed us to put on the pressure to get to the quarterback," said Young. 
This is the kind of intra­squad chemistry that great de­fenses show. But now that the defense has put together a streak of stopping passing of­fenses, they get to face the wishbone next weekend. 
MOur problem is that one week you're playing a team that throws it from one end of the field to the other, third-and­one they throw the football and now all of a sudden we're into a game where third-and-seven is a running down." said Holtz. 
But thafs a problem for the coming week of practice. a problem that a rapidly improv­ing defense should be more than equipped to handle. 
continued from page 116 
was able to recover the ball in tbe corner of the end zone for a touchdown. 
Ml give a lot of credit to Jay Hayes (special teams) and Joe Wessel (volunteer assistant). They have been working with the kids from day one on blocking ;pu11t-s," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. Mit was just beautiful to watch him block it the way he did; he just blocked it perfectly.~ 
Both teams exchanged punts after ineffective drives until the end of the half. 
Pitt kicked off to start the second half. Reggie Brooks, in a Rocket-esque move, fielded Ron Silvestri's ik.ick at the eight-yard line, broke a tackle, and rac,ed 42 yards before he was brought down by Ken Ra.dinick. 
Ml thought I bad one,~ said Reggie Brooks. MSomebody kind of got me from behind and I lost my balance and they 


page 1.4 The Observer 


-Hall, Bereich injured; 'Air Irish' grounded 
By RICH KURZ AND JENNNIFER MARTEN Sports Writers 
Reggie Brook's punt block and recovery for a touchdown is something Irish fans haven't seen much of in the past few years. 
As a matter of fact, it has been 13 years since a Notre Dame player blocked a punt and the Irish returned it for a score. The date was January 1, 1979, in the Cotton Bowl versus Houston. Tony Belden blocked the punt and Steve Cichy recov­ered it for a touchdown. 
And for those of you who haven't seen enough rules quirks, here's another one for you-technically, since Brooks blocked and recovered the kick for a touchdown, it is scored officially as a 26-yard punt re­turn for a touchdown. 
Irish quarterback Rick Mirer had an uncharacteristically poor performance versus the 

Panthers. Mirer completed only ~--------------------------..
four of 15 pass attempts, while throwing two inten:eptions. Another interception was nulli­fied on a roughing the passer call against Pitt. 
Mirer did throw for one touchdown, a pass that moves him closer to a school record for touchdown passes in a sea-

NO women's tennis places high at Brown 
Special to The Observer 
PROVIDENCE, R.l.-The Notre Dame women's tennis team won two doubles titles and advanced two players to the singles finals on the last day of the Brown Invitational. Sophomores Lisa Tholen and Christy Faustmann downed Tennessee's top-seeded duo of Shannon Kagawa and Mandy Wilson 7-4, 6-4 to take the A­flight doubles title. 
Senior Kristy Doran and sophomore Catherine McGinley defeated Washington's Beth Hutton and Liz Allen 7-6. 6-1 to take home the 0-flight doubles crown. The other two Irish doubles teams of Ann Bradshaw and Eniko Bende (B­flight) and Terri Vitale and laura Schwab {C-flight) also reached the finals of their re­spective flights before falling to opponents from 15th-ranked Tennessee. 
Junior Melissa Harris reached the top singles finals before the Lady Vols 48th­ranked Mandy Wilson served her a 6-3, 6-3 loss. Bende reached the finals of the D­flight before losing 6-2, 6-3 to Blair Strassner of Rice. 
This weekend the Irish will be looking to win their fourth­straight MCC championship when they play host to the event on Oct. 19 and 20 at the Courtney Tennis Center. 

-
son. At the halfway mark of the season, Mirer has 11 passes for scores. The Irish record is 16, held jointly by three players, the most recent being Joe Theismann in 1970. 
John Covington is showing a lot of versatility this year. The sophomore started the game at outside linebacker, his third position in three weeks. Covington started the season listed as a free safety, but has also seen time at the strong safety spot. 
Covington was successful in his venture as a linebacker. He is credited with five tackles and three assisted tackles against Pitt. 
As for injuries, the Irish lost tackle Justin Hall early in the game. Early indications signal that it could be his back again and possibly an ankle injury. linebacker Pete Bereich did not play the second half due to in­jury. The extent of the injury was unknown after the game. 

I$50,000.00* FOR COLLEGE I 
Students can now obtain about $50.000.00 within one years 
time towards college costs. and any other expenses. 
This money is available from bank, and department store credit card programs, and will not interfere with any student loans you might have, or are applying for. 
Let Phoenix Publishing show you alternate ways to finance 
your college education. 

·i!!il!iii!~!i!i!lil!i!Bi!i!i¥111 ~~~~-~·:-~:~:;:;:;~:~:i:::::;·:·:·:~~~ 
100% SATISFACTION IS GUARANTEED, ::=< 
OR YOUR MONEY BACK, AND $20.00 CASH! ~ 
~Wm-l···~~~w.:=-$:--=:=:m=:-::::r:=::r:::~r:~->:=f.>~:::::::&~~~;::~~~~~=:~~~~=rst§'?~:::;::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::J 
Send $19.99 Plus $2.00 Shipping and Handling To: PHOENIX PUBLISIDNG CORP. 707 Foulk Rd., 1#102 Wilmington, DE 19803-3700 

,:::ss -"""""'"''.,;,~ 
~ City State Zip ;~ 
l Allow 3-4 w.:eks delivery. ·>~
i "Amount of funds may vary slightly for each individual :t 
"'li!J!i.!llllll!lii!ll!llll!ll!ll!Cii!S1lf::~&~~~<<W.<@."*~'*;~<=i*i*>::::~r:<lf&.iil!lillllllw.mi'-::::::;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:::::::;:;:;:~:::i:!~:;:::::;:? 
St. Edward's Hall Players Sign-ups for Auditions Friday, Oct. 11th-18th Rm. 215 of St. Ed's 
Katie (Gerry) Jones Wants to say: 
Happy 21st Birthday 







8LI11R 

Vols, Sooners fall; Irish climb into top five 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
Florida State maintained its top position in this week's National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll. 
The Seminoles. 33-20 winners over Virginia Tech on Saturday, received 25 of 26 first-place votes to hold off second-ranked Miami, 26-20 victors over Penn State. Washington received the other first-place vote and finished third in the rankings. 
Michigan and Notre Dame both moved up two spots in the poll after convincing victories. The Wolverines jumped to fourth, while the Irish climbed to fifth. Florida, California, Tennessee, Nebraska and Oklahoma round out the top 10. 
East Carolina, by virtue of its 23-20 upset of Syracuse at the Carrier Dome, debuts in the poll this week at 25th position. The Pirates replace Mississippi, who dropped out of the rank­ings after losing to 18th-ranked Georgia 37-17. 
.
.._ 

Nezlg•JT"e 
~~ 
t. (1) Rorida Slate [25J 6-0 649 10119 vs. Middle Tenn. St 2-(2) '-liaml 5-0 616 10/19 vs. Long Beach Sl. 
-· 

3. 
t3) Wasl·ungton [1) 5-0 602 10/19 at Calitorn•a 

4. 
t6) Michigan 4-1 575 10119 vs. lnd1ana 

5. 
(7) Notre Dame 5-1 5311 10/19 at Air Force 


~ 
6. (10) F1o11da 4·1 527 10119115. Northern lllmOIS 7 (13) Califorma 5·0 455 10i19 vs. Washmgton 
B. t4) TefVHta.. 4-1 450 10119 vs. Alabama( X) 
9. (16) Nebraska 1-1 411 10119 vs. Kansas Stale 10. (5) Oklahoma 4-1 396 10119vs. Colorado 
11. (9) Pems..te 5-2 31!3 10/19 vs. Rutgers

21:.~ 
12. 
{17) N.C. State 5·0 356 10119 vs. Marshall 

13. 
(B) Baylor 5·1 308 1Q,19vs. Texas A&M 14 (20) lllir"IOIS 4·1 302 10119atlowa 


15. (19) Alab~ 5-1 291 10119vs. Tenness~ 
3 15. {15) Iowa 4·1 291 10/19 liS. llhnoos 
20 
17(11) Ohio Slate 4·1 254 10.19vs. N'weslern()l) GeorQJa 5-1 214 10J19al Vanderb1ll Plttab<,.gh 5·1 153 10/19vs. Syracuse
~=. :~ 
(21) Tarras A&M 3-1 149 1QI19al. Baylor 
21. {12) Clamsa, 3·1-1 1311 10126 vs. N.C. State 22 {18) Syracuse 4-2 97 10/19 at P1ttsburgh
• 23. (24) Colorado 3·2 79 10/19at Oklahoma 24 (23) Auburn 4·2 71 10126 \o'5. MiSSISSippi St. 

25 (NRJ East C.:uohna 5·1 42 'Q,26 vs. P1Hsburg'1 
.r-at Birmmgham )"--at ClevelamJ 
Other-s reca1v1ng ¥0\M: Anzona State 20. Texa!> 17, Columb•a 16. 
Fresno State 5, Miss•sa1pp1 State 5. Rutgers 5, Air Force 4, 
M•SSISSIPP• 4, Bowhng Gteen 3. Geotg•.J. Tech 3 Indiana 3, r-.,or•'"l 
Car:'!ltna 2. RIC& 2. Southern Cal 1. Wtsconsm 1 
Bold indicates NO opponent 
Schools pa11tc1Jlal•ng: Alabama. Ar1zona, Anzona Slate. 8.111 St.1t"'. 9rogham Young, Colorado. Columb1a, Duke Flonta, Flor•da Stme. illm01s, lnd•ana, Kansas, Kentucky, M1am1, M1chtg;1n, Nebr<~s"·'· N"":!'~ .).l""le, Oregon, Oreqon Slate. Penn Slate Purdl.Je. -elliiS, U!ah. v~...,5: 
/.•gm~o"l. Wtscons•n 
]}ll~~ww n®ttllu ~mf?tiT]}ITII»~w 
KARA CHRISTOPHERSON 
October 19th 

Love,  
Ballot DO  Mom, Dad, and  
Chauncey  

fii 
FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS A SUMMER STUDENT NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION
. 

HOSPITALS 

Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo Medical Center for the summer. 
Summer Ill is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and Rochester Methodist Hospital, both part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 
You are eligible for Summer Ill after your junior year of a four year baccalaureate nursing program. It includes experience on medical and surgical nursing units or in operating rooms. 
Application Deadline: December 1 , 1 991 . For more information contact: 
Mayo Medical Center 

Nursing Recruitment P.O. Box 6057 Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 1-800-247-8590 
1-507-255-4314 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmative action and equal opportunity educator and employer. 


Monday, October 14, 1991 The Observer page 15 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
11£: !:E.'(, Gl!i:C~ THe TAU. BLONDE YeAII ~ SH€'s llSIN' 
Tl-\E RECIP£. Sll.'l5 II M~KES 
TtiAT ONE ouT. Wrnt THc 81'10: PACK 80Tll &lCK STR II PS 1 
ThJENl'( ~(A'(E'::;. I s:J 
0

WE'll. EAC\-\ GtJ lt.N . 
WEll. .\\lSI MI\KE <.::lNt. 8/G P~t\CA't(E 1\ND C\JT II 11'-l HA.U=. 
"OK, crybaby! You want the last soda? Well, let me GET IT READY FOR YOU!" 
CROSSWORD CAMPUS 

ACROSS 
1 Fishing need 5 Code word for the 
letter "A" (pl.) 10 Blue of baseball 14 Sigh words 15 Stir up 16 Ever and ­17 Lariat lB Filming s 1te 
(2 wds.)20 Alone (2 wds.)22 Part of TNT 23 Pea-picking 3B "-the season ... " 
machines 39 Disheartened 24 Dog show initials 41 Content of some 25 Mrs. Peel's partner humor books 27 Writer Mickey, and 42 l~sting a short 
family time 32 Sound possibly made 44 Fonmation by Garfield 45 Mornings, for short 33 Seaport near 46 Miss Loren 
Tijuana 4B River to the Seine 34 Miss MacGraw 51 Brook 35 Part of Bogart 54 Restaurant offer-
film title (2 wds.) ing (2 wds.) 
56 Taj Mahal site 57 Saturday night
specials 58 Deserve 59 Do detective work 60 Pro­61 Colonist William, 
and family 62 Anglo-Saxon slave 
DOWN 
1 Pointed remark 2 Nautical cry3 Deprive of 
necessities 4 More minuscule 5 Got up 6 Recluses 7 Unusual ship­
conmand ( 3 wds.)8 Up until (2 wds.) 9 Trigonometry
abbreviation 10 European tourist mecca 11 "What "'s -for 
me?" 12 --die 13 Part of A.D. 19 leg ornament 21 Football position24 And 25 Bogart role, Sam 
28 Tavern 29 House warmer 
(2 wds.)30 Minneapolis suburb 31 Impertinent 35 Detective Mike­36 Votes for 37 To see: Sp. 40 As -junkyard
dog 41 Man or ape 43 Ohio city on Lake 
Erie 44 Shout of discovery47 Rains hard 48 Courier (abbr.) 
Monday
49 Prefix for lung 
-,.
50 litter member 

51 "Peter Pan" pirate 7 p.m. Film, "An Officer and a Gentlemen." Carroll 52 -go bragh Auditorium. 
53 Story 55 Napoleon, for one 
(a~br.) 
LECTURES 
Monday 

4:15 p.m. The Henkels Visiting Scholar Series, Culture of Revolutionary France. "Hehabilitating the Family After the Terror: Evidence from Art and Literature," Lynn Hunt, University of Pennsylvania. Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 
7:30 p.m. The Henkels Visiting Scholar Series, Culture of Revolutionary France, "Jacques-Louis David's Anglomanie on the Eve of the French Hevolution," Phillipe Bordes, director, Museum of the French Revolution, Vizille, France. Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. • 
MENU 

Hoast Pork Loin with Apples Egg Rolls • Meatless Baked Ziti 
whot·s hoppening whot"s hoppening 
SMC 

•





CLOTHES DRIVE 
' 

For YWCA Women·s Shelter In Residence Hall Lobbies and Off Campus Lounge 
Oct. 14-31 


The Observer/Jake Peters Reggie Brooks (41) blocks a punt by Pitt's Leon Theodorou. The block was the first Irish block for a score since 1979. 

One year ago, it was the­young defensive backfield that received the brunt of the blame for the ridiculous passing numbers that opposing quarterbacks put up against the Irish. 


Rich Kurz 
This season, it was assumed Associate 
that the inexperienced Sports Editor 
defensive line would be the weak point in the Notre Dame defense. 

After the performance of the Irish defense on Saturday, there's no reason to blame anyone. 
Approximately one year ago, Pitt quarterback Alex Van Pelt threw for 384 yards against the Irish defense. Saturday he barely rang up 207 yards through the air. 
Over the past two weeks (including the defeat of Stanford), the Irish defense has sent a warning to opposing signalcallers-Notre Dame won't be beaten through the air. 
Saturday, the Panthers' inability to throw the ball was due to all-around excellent play by the defense. The defensive line, slanting and slashing all afternoon, put tremendous pressure on Van Pelt, and although they didn't sack him, they forced him to hurry a number of passes. 
And even when Pitt's offensive line gave their quarterback some time, the coverage, essentially using a package of five defensive backs, shut down the receivers until the line forced Van Pelt to get rid of the bail. 
A big reason for the improved pass defense is the use of a fifth defensive back. Saturday, John Covington played outside linebacker, switching from safety. 
"You need somebody in there used to the pass," said Covington. "Usually the outside linebacker will be concentrating on the run, where I've got it in my mind to think 'pass, pass."' 
Pitt coach Paul Hackett was impressed with the Irish defense as well. 
"Coming in, we knew they would be strong, but we didn't expect them to play with five defensive backs and two linebackers all day and stop our running game," said Hackett. "They did it last week at Stanford and repeated the performance today." 
The performance against the Panthers proved that the new and improved defensive scheme is no fluke. 
"We were somewhat prepared for it because we saw it last week at Stanford," Hackett said. "I didn't have enough confidence to just drop back and throw it down the field all day. They had an excellent defensive game plan." 
The secondary. despite being relatively young, got plenty of experience last season. So in spite of the fact that they have only one senior (after the loss of Greg Davis), they are dependable. 
A lot of shifting has gone on in the backfield, leaving only one starter from the Indiana game in the same position against Pitt. Willie Clark, formerly a running back, and Rod Smith, who began the season as a cornerback, played the safeties yesterday. Jeff Burris, who began the year as a free safety, is now a cornerback. Only Tom Carter, playing corner. is where he started the year. 
"Defensively, we made the changes of Covington to the drop end, which is his third po­sition in three weeks," said Irish coach L(_)u 
see DEFENSE/ page 13 
Men's soccer defeats ·MCC foe Butler in team effort 
By JASON KELLY opening period, but that would 
lofted a beautiful shot from 12 record, and carries their 7-3-1 Sports Writer be all the offense they could yards out to seal the victory. mark into Friday's game against muster. "I though Oates did a DePaul. They will also put a five 
Three second half goals lifted The second half belonged to tremendous job," commented game winning streak on the line the Notre Dame men's soccer the Irish. Sophomore Mike second year coach Mike against the Blue Demons, but team past Butler in a crucial Palmer collected a loose ball Berticelli. "He's a freshman but appear confident that the streak Midwestern Collegiate and fired a shot past Butler he played like a senior." is far from over. Conference game Sunday after­goalie Dave McVay to even the "This win should put us first noon at Alumni Field. score at the 66:20 mark. Sunday's victory was truly a or second in the conference 
team effort, however, as the tournament," said senior cap­
Each team could create only Seven minutes later Butler's Irish battled back from an early tain Kenyon Meyer, "but we four shots in a first half domi­Matt Morgan was ejected, giv­deficit to earn a good seed in have six games to go before the nated by defense. Notre Dame's ing Notre Dame a one-man ad­next month's MCC tournament. tournall)ent and we expect to back line shut down the vantage for the final 17 min­"This was a very important win them all." Bulldogs for most of game, with utes. Tim Oates game in the conference," The Irish will spend fall break one exception. Butler's Noel Berticelli noted. "We came in on the road at Georgetown and Korowin fired a nearly It took less than a minute for to put the Irish ahead to stay. knowing we had to win and this the South Carolina Met Life unstoppable shot from 24 yards the Irish to capitalize on the With less than four minutes is a tribute to this team's inten­Classic, before completing the out to give the Bulldogs the advantage as freshman Jean remaining, freshman Tim Oates sity." 1991 regular season at home early lead with less than four Joseph notched his fifth goal in pulled McVay away from the net Notre Dame finishes the con­against Western Michigan and minutes remaining in the as many games on rebound shot after a long breakaway and ference season with a 4-1-1 Kentucky. 










