~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~----­
:"'
/ j/··1 •.J 
I 

VOL. XXIV NO. 53 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1991 
. THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
History department faces prot>lem of underfunding 
Editor's note: Recent bud­getary problems within the College of Arts and Letters have caused concern about course offerings for the spring semester. As students begin the DART registration process, The Observer will spend the week examining the effects of the budget situation in several departments within the College. 
By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
The Notre Dame department of history has been adversely affected by the recent "budgetary glitch" in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, said Thomas Kselman, department 
chairman. · 
Kselman cited large class sizes as glaring evidence that his department needs more money with which to hire more professors. The average 300­and 400-level class contains 50 students. 
"I consider that too large," said Kselman of class size. "The ideal is 30 students _per class. It allows for more writing and discussion." 
There are currently 27 faculty members in the history de­partment, about 20 of which actually teach undergraduate courses. 
Twenty-five 300-and 400­level courses are being offered next semester, plus six 100-and 200-level courses. Most upper­level courses have been restricted to history majors during the first there periods of 

GSU discusses Wilson Commons' renovation 
By JULIE BARRETT 
News Writer 
Proposals for the renovation and management of Wilson Commons, which is open to all graduate students, and the size reduction of Ph.D. candidacy exam boards were the main is­sues discussed at the Graduate Student Union (GSU) council meeting last night. 
A preliminary proposal for the renovation and manage­ment of Wilson Commons was distributed to members of the GSU during last night's meeting. The proposal calls for ren­ovation of the lower lounge area of Wilson Commons, such as new rugs and a larger dance floor and GSU administrative control of the entire center. 
The GSU is proposing to re­duce the minimum size of Ph.D. candidacy exam boards from five professors to four. Accord­ing to the proposal, it will be the graduate departments own decision as to how many people will be on the board commit­tees. 
The Faculty Senate has re­quested to expand the ~Aca­demic Council to include more student representatives. There is only one graduate student representative on the council. 
Travel Grant applications are due Friday, Nov. 15, and those who receive funding will be no­tified by the first week ef De­cember. The total grant fund for the year is $17,000. 
The GSU Quality of Life committee is in the process of putting together a survey re­garding graduate students' needs for childcare. The survey will be distributed to grad stu­dents during enrollment next semester. 
GSU's Women's Resource committee is planning a pro­gram focusing on sexual ha­rassment and rape on campus. Specific dates for the program have not yet been decided. 
Grad student representatives are needed for the Traffic Ap­peals Board and the Library committee, said GSU President Kurt Mills. Contact the GSU of­fice if interested. 
The last graduate social event of the ,semester is planned for December 6. Stay posted for details. 
For more information about ' GSU plans and activities or any concerns, stop by the GSU of­fice, located in room 200 in LaFortune, or call at 239-6963. 
DART, said Kselman. 
Large class size and limited course offerings plac'e extra burdens on students and pro­fessors alike, said Kselman. Professors must spend extra time grading papers and tests. Both history majors and non­majors must compete for popu­lar courses. 
There are about 240 under­graduate history majors. 
"If we could add more posi­tions, we'd get more classes, and thus smaller class sizes," said Kselman. 
··we have not overspent," said Kselman, echoing the concerns of some other department chairpersons. "We've been un­derfunded." 
In fact, Kselman said he felt the department suffered from cuts by the University. He ex­plained this by noting the Ad-

Several smiles 

ministration's refusal to hire a 
replacement for a professor of 
Latin American history that left 
ND two years ago. 
"I'm very disappointed that 
we weren't able to replace our 
Latin Americanist," said Ksel­
man in an interview Wednes­
day. 
The Administration informed 
Kselman that the history de­
partment could only hire two 
professors for this academic 
year-a replacement of a pro­
fessor of American history, and 
a chaired professorship. 
Kselman gave the following 
reasons for a need for a new 
Latin Americanist: 
•It is important to offer many courses on different parts of the world, and to avoid concen­trating too much on European 
.and North American history. 
•There is a substantial stu­
dent demand for Latin Ameri­
can courses. 
Samuel Shapiro, associate professor of history, currently offers two courses-one per semester-in Latin American history. 
Kselman did give the Univer­sity credit for allowing the de­partment to hire a professor of African American history and a professor of Central European history over the past three years. 
"In the past;. there has been some sign of University under­standing of the need for more professors," said Kselman. "However, I hope we will soon be growing again to meet the needs of students." 
As if to illustrate his point, Kselman was presented in with a declaration of major form at the close of the interview. 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Saint Mary's junior Cheryl Copeland entertains area children at El Cambito. 


Psychology dept. reports no cuts in classes or faculty 
By FRANK RIVERA Assistant News Editor 
There will be no cuts in classes or faculty in the psy­chology department for the spring semester, according to department chair Scott Maxwell, despite the $425,000 error in the College of Arts and Letters budget. 
The problems have not af­fected the department "at all for next semester," said Maxwell, who is in his first year as chairperson of the department. "The real question is what implications it has for long-term planning." 
"It was somewhat frustrating, as a new chairperson," said Maxwell, "within the first week of becoming chair of the department and learning that we were going to have this temporary hiring freeze." 
However, with the recent lift­ing of the hiring freeze, there is a different feeling in the de­partment, according to Maxwell. 
"We are feeling optimistic," he said, "now that the freeze has been lifted, that that will be behind us." 
There was no plans to hire any new professors for the Spring 1992 semester, accord­

ing to Maxwell. However, the department plans to hire three new professors for the Fall 1992 season. 
"It was unfortunate to have to delay hiring procedures," he said, "but I don't think that has directly affected us. " 
According to the Office of In­stitutional Research, said Maxwell, between the years 1984-85 and 1990-91, the per­centage increase in psychology majors is the fourth largest of any department on campus. 
"We have seen a fifty-percent increase in the number of first­majors," said Maxwell. "We also have the third-largest number of second-majors on campus." 
In this same time period, the number of full-time professors increased by only two, form 19 to 21. 
In real numbers, in May 1991, there was a total of 378 psy­chology majors, whether strict psychology majors or first-or second-majors, according to Maxwell. 
Including majors, the total number of students enrolled in undergraduate psychology classes numbered 1,458 in Fall 1990 and 1,995 in Spring 1991, said Maxwell. 
The department has planned to hire faculty to meet these in­creases, he said. 
..The department has, over the past two years," said Maxwell, "made some long­range plans for ~hat kinds of additional faculty would be beneficial to the department." 
With the freeze over, the de­partment should be able to con­tinue as planned, according to Maxwell. 
"The question now will be whether there will be continued support for the College of Arts and Letters," said Maxwell, "and whether the college is given room to grow in propor­tion to the increase in enroll­ment." 



page2 Thursday, November 14, 1991 
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
B Police, O'Hara win top 


awards 
In the spirit of the sesquicentennial an­niversary, I have decided to mark the occasion in a 
· special way. Yes folks, it is indeed time for the first annual A.K. awards. The 

A.K. awards or~g.inated Anthony King over a plate of dining hall A . t t s rt 
. . d d SSIS an po S
cmsme, an are name Ed't after their humble creator 1 or The award winners were strictly determiqed by the crack A.K. staff, and all results are certified by the accounting firm of Price Anderson Waterhouse Pfister Inc. The crack A.K. staff has worked many late nights in order to find the best candidates for each award. So, let us honor the 1991 winners with one of the highest acclaims possible. Let the ceremonies begin. The Barney Fife "To serve and protect" Award-The South Bend Police department are truly deserving of this honor. They have continued their relentless search to rid the streets of vicious criminals. Their SUDS program has hunted down several known menaces to society, including a few notorious members of the Notre Dame football squad. Add to this their undercover t-shirt busting operation, and you get one of the best programs to rid the community of thugs. A close second goes to the St. Joseph's County sheriffs for their extreme courtesy and overall friendliness during parking for football weekends. Congratulations to the men in blue. The Rolls Royce Award-The Beer Tub One of the lesser known monuments at Notre Dame, but it has become a legend of D-2. The Beer Tub, for those of you unlucky enough not to have caught a glimpse of this piece o automotive engineering, is the quintessential college car. It has a home-made paint job, which includes its title, and a lived in look. I guess you'd call it a comfortable old shoe, but I call it a classic. The Tastes Great -Less Filling Award -The unknown person who started the SMC vs. ND uproar Adding to the legends of earth shaking debates, this unknown Socrates will go down in history next to the genius who thought up the "less filling" thing. Not only did it fill the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community with the enlightening debate of "who is better," but allowed many people to actually use the skills learned in their freshman seminar classes. Thanks for an interesting month. The Cliff Claven "It's a little known fact" Award -Professor Patricia O'Hara We're all in gratitude for Professor O'Hara's warning of the dangers of snowball fighting. I nor any of of the A.K. staff knew that snowball fights were dangerous. We're just waiting for her next special on the dangers of jai-alai. You know, it's a little known fact that the Romans invented jai-alai.. ... There are so many more awards that I'd like to include, such as the Digger Phelps Award, but I guess we'll have to wait until next year to unveil these. So, hats off to the 1991 winners, and your trophies are in the mail. 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
News Lauren Aquino Ann Marie Hartman  Production Kathy Fong Cherly Moser  
Business Colleen Gannon Andy Runkle  Illustrations Steve Duenes Jake Frost  
Sports Rich Szabo  Graphics Brendan Regan  
Scoreboard Mike Scrudato  Systems Fritz Valsaint  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

. . 
U~es ~e~ate .high t~mperature z~n~s for the day. 


PrsssurB  
H  L  ['~'~  ~  m  ~  m 8  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  

VIII Auoc/111«1 ~.. 

~ ~ c::1 
Tokyo 64 48

SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Washington, D.C. 51 38
::, 
. .·. 
::: 
FORECAST: 


sunny in the morning and becoming cloudy in the afternoon with a 30 percent chance of showers. High in the upper 50s. Showers likely on Friday. 
T&HRATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  68  52  
Atlanta  60  37  
Berlin  50  41  
Boston  44  38  
Chicago  37  34  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  64  47  
Denver  73  39  
Detroit  39  35  
Honolulu  80  73  
Houston  73  47  
Indianapolis  38  36  
London  50  41  
Los Angeles  87  62  
Miami Beach  79  57  
New Orleans  69  43  
New Yorll  47  39  
Paris  52  46  
Philadelphia  48  38  
Rome  61  36  
St. Louis  44  37  
San Francisco  75  56  
Seattle 58 46 South Bend 38 34





TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Yeltsin fires his special representative 
~P~~~fO~pre~~~~~~~~in r~ed t~i= ttW; /'fi .....• ~ 
Chechen-Ingush regwn Wednesday wl ,_,. ~ f for sending back assessments that ¢fi,h 
~·, . ., ·~· Yeltsin said provoked the imposition l• of emergency rule in the separatist i , Muslim e~clave. The Tass news Ill . agency said Akhmed Arsano was , relieved of his duties for spreading "disinformation." Yeltsin, the Russian president, ordered emergency rule in ClJ.e..chen-Ingush on Friday on the basis of this "disinformation," Tass said. Yeltsin on Tuesday backed off the emergency rule declaration after the Russian legislature demanded a political answer to the crisis in the enclave, an autonomous section of Russia in the Caucasus Mountains. Yeltsin sent 1,000 troops to enforce his state of emergency on Friday. Two days later, armed supporters of Gen. Dzhokar Dudayev, president of the region, escorted them back to the Russian border. 


OF INTEREST 
•A Fall Forum for students concerning the North American Free Trade Agreement will be sponsored by the Notre Dame Council on International Business Develop­ment in the Auditorium of the new Hesburgh Institute at 7 p.m. 
MARKET UPDATE 

latest series suggests a cover-up involving a Drug Enforcement Administration investigation of Quayle. This week's strip deals with the PEA investigation resulting from a convicted felon's claims -wqich he later recanted -that he sold cocaine and a sedative to Quayle. 
Smith fears a ~artial jury at trial 

•EL C RRITO, Calif-Locked in a car trunk with his neck slashed, a man scrawled "help" in his own blood on a piece of cardboard and slipped it through a crack. A passerby saw it and called police, who rescued him. William Francis, 50, was abducted by two men Thursday outside a Dublin fast food restaurant, said Dublin police Sgt. Patrick Adams. They forced Francis into the back seat of his car, blindfolded him and drove him around, apparently trying unsuccessfully to use his automatic teller card, Adams said. They finally bound his hands and feet, cut his throat and put him in the trunk, Adams said. The car was abandoned at an El Cerrito shopping center. El Cerrito police Sgt. Michelle Baran said a passerby spotted Francis' bloody note, and officers opened the trunk. Francis was released from a hospital Sunday after surgery. No arrests have been made, police said Tuesday. 
• 

•Powerful resume writing is the topic of discussion tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Foster Room, LaFortune. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1851: Herman Melville's novel "Moby Dick" was first published in the United States. 

•In 
1889: Jawarharlal Nehru, the first prime minister of independent India, was born. 

•In 
1935: President Roosevelt proclaimed the Philippine Islands a free commonwealth. 


• • In 1986: The Securities and Exchange Commission imposed a record $100,000,000 penalty against inside-trader 
Ivan Boesky and barred him from working again in the 
securities industry. 

Political reality of Mexico is not a peaceful democracy 





·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Jj 





Zinser said. 
It was also a march about 
individual rights, to prove that 
one vote should count. They 
planned to arrive in the capitol 
on November 1, the day Salinas 
traditionally gave the State of 
the Union Address, with roughly 
500,000 marchers, according to 
Zinser. 
On October 15, with the marchers 200 kilometers from the capitol, president Salinas relented and ordered Zapata to resign, Zinser said. Salinas then picked Gonzalo Martinez Corbali, a PRI member, to be interim governor. 
This appointment was ap­proved by the legislature of San Luis, said Zinser, but only be­cause the president had picked him and the legislature was mostly PRI. But during the in­auguration, many members ex­pressed their extreme dislike for the new governor by ver­bally assaulting hi~ during the ceremony. 
In the next few weeks or months, Nava and the Salinas government will meet to deter­mine the fate of the governor­ship of San Luis, Zinser said. 
The significance of all this, said Zinser, is that it shows that a small percentage of actively opposed citizens could defeat a passive majority of Salinas supporters. This time the opposition group, instead of being comprised of peasants, was composed mainly of middle and upper-middle class individ­uals whom the Salinas adminis­tration could not afford to suppress. 
In Mexico, said Zinser, a re­cent poll showed that 20 per­cent of citizens were actively opposed to Salinas while 60 percent were passively in sup­port of him. This shows that what happened on a provincial scale could also happen on a national scale, he said. 
Mexico could continue on the 
road towards democracy, but it 
could also take the reverse 
route and become a dictator­
ship, Zinser said. 
As it stands now, the consti­tution of Mexico is much like that of the United States, but the reality is that the country is a dictatorship under the control of one man, the president. Mexico is the "perfect dictator­ship"-it has the appearance and trappings of a democratic state but is in fact an authori­tarian one, he said. 
This "gap" between reality and the fiction of the law has existed for so long that it is ready to close, according to Zinser. The question is whether the reality will move closer to the current constitution, or the constitution will move closer to the current reality, he said. 
President Salinas is already taking steps to change the fic­tion of the law into reality ­..being realistic," as Zinser puts it. Salinas recently changed the land policy from one which benefitted the small farmer to one which allows large land­holders and corporations to control as much land as they want, said Zinser. The question is whether or not Salinas will succeed. 
Zinser said he believes this will all come to a head and the future of Mexico will be deter­mined in the 1994 presidential election. Traditionally, the president in power picks his successor, since he can only run for one term. 
If all the opposition groups can rally in support of one can­didate in 1994, Zinser said, they can win the presidency. He said he feels that more important than who the opposing candidate is, is the defeat of the PRI party. ..All that's needed is the unification of the opposition (groups) in 1994 and the PRI is done with," he said. 
Although optimistic about the future for his country, Zinser said he was astonished by the lack of response from the world-and especially the United States-press in covering these recent developments in Mexico. "Some of the things that are happening here (in Mexico) are as significant as those occurring over in Eastern Europe," he added. 
The press may have been lax because "if Washington doesn't say Mexico is news, it's not news," he said. 
Since Salinas is backed by Bush and they are both behind the free trade agreement, it does not appear that Mexico will be news, according to Zinser. "It's amazing that people in the United States have not been confronted with the reality of Mexico." 
Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, a se­nior researcher at the Center for Studies of the United States of America National Au­tonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), obtained his Master's degree in Public Administration from the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University. 
Blanco says planned conference is on hold 
By JOE MONAHAN 
News Writer 
The political reality in Mexico is far different from the peaceful democracy it is imag­ined to be, according to Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, of the Center for the Studies of the U.S.A. National Autonomous Univer­sity of Mexico (UNAM}. 
What has happened and will happen in Mexico in the months and years to come will, in his opinion, determine the future course of Mexico, either as a democracy or a dictatorship. 
According to Zinser, Mexico is the only one-party totalitarian system in existence today which is not being actively challenged by the international community. In fact, he says, the system not only escapes criticism (from the international community} but actually enjoys support from it. 
Even the world media, usually a watchdog against dictators and abuses, has not been con­sistent in its coverage of events in Mexico, he added. 
The Mexican political system cycles around a six-year presi­dential term. A president can only hold office for one term, and appoints his successor. This year, the third year of President Carlos Salinas' term, the federal legislature and gubernatorial elections were held. 
According to Zinser, the Au­gust 18 midterm elections probably contained the largest amount of voter fraud in the history of Mexico if not the western world. 
The Revolutionary Institu­tionalized Party (PRil, which has been the only controlling party since the revolution of 1910, won 62 percent of the House seats (290 of 300 major seats, and 30 of 200 propor­tional representative seats) and 30 of 31 seats in the Senate. 
Accounts of fraud ranged from computers, tallying votes, going "down" and coming back up with different tallies in overwhelming favor of the PRI candidate~. to polling places reporting over 100 percent turnout of registered voters, also in favor of the PRI candi­date, said Zinser. "They did it too well," Zinser quoted one politician as saying. 
The governorship of the province of San Luis Portosi was "won" by Fausto Zapata-a PRI candidate -after the computers "went down." The events that took place in San Luis after the election, said Zinser, are crucial to the future of Mexico. 
Salvador Nava, the opposition candidate in San Luis, had a strong showing in the election before the polling computers "went down," Zinser said. Mter the election, Nava and his supporters refused to accept the new governor and demanded a recount. 
But a similar request for a recount had been made in the province of Guanajuato and been militarily suppressed, and Nava supporters doubted Pres­ident Carlos Salinas would agree to a recount, said Zisner. So they demanded that Zapata be ordered to resign. 
To this end Nava organized the "March of Dignity," a walk from San Luis to the distant capitol of Mexico City to force the to remove ata 

By PETER LOFTUS 
Assistant News Editor 
A Pan-American conference 
of student leaders planned by 
Student Body President Joseph 
Blanco is being put on hold for 
this academic year, according 
to Blanco. 
Blanco and Student Body Vice President Dave Florenzo an­nounced last spring, after tak­ing office, their intention to hold a conference of students from Catholic universities in both North and South America. The purpose of the conference ·was to exchange ideas and ex­
periences common ~ C~holic
universities. 
"There was a problem with 
being able to get everyone to­
gether within a year's time," 






r Go, 
Home! 
FOR•••WEEICENDSIHOLIDAYS 
IIR1HDAYSIWEDDINGS MOM'S HOMI COOKING 
Council Travel offers domestic studert air fares in selected markets! Call for more info, «lee a FREE Travel Catalog! 
Council Travel 
1153 N. DuJt:x:m St., 91d ftoor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
said Blanco in an interview Wednesday. 
Blanco said the conference, if held this year, wouldn't have been organized enough to jus­tify the expense invglved in transporting and hosting for­eign students. 
Blanco and Florenzo are cur­rently in the process of forming a committee charged with or­ganizing the Pan-American con­ference for the 1992-93 aca­demic year. 
The focus of the conference, in which anywhere from 60 to over 100 schools would be rep­resented, would have been on service at a Catholic university, said Blanco. 
Another issue among Catholic universities which Blanco learned from a student leader in South America is the ten­dency of Catholic universities to "lean more to the upper eche­lons of society." Blanco said Catholic universities in the U.S. are not necessarily immune to that problem. 
Blanco said he is in the initial stages of forming a conference committee, and that a Catch-22 in organizing is not being able to plan without funding, and yet not being able to get funding without planning. He has, however, enlisted the support of some Administration officials to help the planning committee. 
Blanco guessed that the con­ference would be held in the spring of 1993. 
Blanco also discussed other student government business: 
On Friday, student govern­ment will randomly send out surveys to 1 ,500 students which will help in the writing of the 1992 Board of Trustees Report on teaching and research. 
The surveys contain questions about class size, availability of classes, and general student perception of the effect of fac­ulty research on classroom teaching. Similar surveys have been sent to faculty members and the return on those surveys has been good, said Blanco. 
The Board Report will be pre­sented on Feb. 6, 1992. Its main goals are to "heighten awareness" of class size and related issues. 
Blanco also discussed the off­campus crime task force, which has already sponsored two "town meetings," in which stu­dents can express their con­cerns and learn from local law enforcement officers. 


The Observer 

page 4 Thursday, November 14, 1991 

Midway likely to be liquidated 
CHICAGO (AP)-Northwest Airlines said Wednesday it scrapped plans to buy Midway Airlines, citing allegedly false information Midway provided about past business. Analysts said Midway, the nation's 12th­largest airline, likely would be liquidated. 
Northwest spokesman Mark Abels said that since his carrier was misled by Midway on its 1990 traffic and revenues, Northwest underestimated by $35 million the amount it would cost to run the airline each year. 
Midway chairman David Hin­son disputed that allegation and said Northwest had "refused to negotiate in good faith and in a timely manner." Hinson said Midway was "shocked and disappointed" by Northwest's decision to scrap the deal. 
The $153 million purchase was approved last month by a judge overseeing Midway's chapter 11 reorganization in bankruptcy court. 
Barring last-minute develop­ments, "an imminent liquida­tion of Midway becomes ex­tremely probable," said Samuel Buttrick, an airline analyst with Kidder Peabody & Co. in New York. 
Jack Hunter of Rothschild Se­curities in Chicago agreed. "They'll sell the pieces to who­ever and pay off the creditors and the rest is history," he said. 
Midway President Thomas 

Schick held out the possibility that Dallas-based Southwest Airlines might have an unspeci­fied interest in Midway. 
But Southwest spokeswoman Melanie Jones said her carrier was interested. only in Midway gates at Chicago's Midway Air­port. Northwest bought the gates last month in a separate agreement that beat out a bid from Southwest. 
Northwest, the fourth-largest 
U.S. airline, had viewed a pur­chase of Midway as an afford­able way to expand as it tries to keep pace with the air travel industry's fast-growing leaders, American, United and Delta. 
Northwest said its directors voted Tuesday night against buying the rest of Midway's as­sets, saying Midway gave Northwest inaccurate financial data. 
Northwest, based in Eagan, Minn., said Midway didn't sat­isfy a demand to eliminate any liability Northwest could face over hazardous wastes at Mid­way's facilities at Midway Air­port. 
The transaction would have completed an acquisition of Midway's assets that Northwest began last month when it paid $20 million for 21 Midway gates at Midway Airport and assumed $1.7 million in Midway's debt. 
Even though the Midway deal fell through, Northwest said it would continue to sublease the gates in Chicago to Midway. 
Northwest indicated that, should Midway fail, it would consider using the gates to ex­pand its own operations at Midway Airport and likely would hire some Midway em­ployees. 
Northwest had agreed to hire most of Midway's 4,300 em­ployees as part of the proposed buyout. 
Midway notified employees last week that the airline may shut down on or about Jan. 8 if the deal collapsed. 
Schick said the 12-year-old Midway would seek recourse in bankruptcy court next week, but lawyers still were working on a strategy. Schick said it wasn't clear how long Midway could survive on its own. 
Signs that the deal was un­raveling appeared last week. 
Northwest President John Dasburg complained to Hinson that Midway understated 1990 traffic by about 13 percent and overstated revenue per passen­ger per mile flown by about 25 percent. 
Using those figures, Midway knowingly overstated 1990 op­erating results by $35 million, Northwest general counsel Richard Hirst said in a letter to Midway terminating the trans­action. 
Midway denied it supplied Northwest with inaccurate numbers and contended its per­formance last year was irrele­vant to the deal. 

Pierce talks on life experiences 

By ERIN BROWN News Writer 
Being chair of the Political Science Department sometimes has Dr. Patrick Pierce believing that he lacks both a mind and a life, said he at Wednesday's lec­ture, "What's a Mind Without a Life: Dialectics of Thought and Action." 
The lecture was part of the Life of the Mind lecture series at Saint Mary's. Pierce spoke about his life, experiences, and interest in politics. 
A native of California, Pierce earned his bachelor's degree at the University of California at San Diego. He then attended San Diego State University, where he received his master's degree. He went on to earn his Ph.D. at Rutgers University in New Jersey. 

"Ideas must be related to action and one's actions must be reflected upon," Pierce said. "Actions can transform ideas." 
At a very young age, Pierce began to differ on political is­sues with his father, he said, often causing his mother to leave the dinner table to avoid the heated discussions. 
In high school he took a col­lege course in political science, he said, and his professor was very inspirational. During this time he was part of a Marxist group of students who met and discussed political issues on weekends, he said. 
At college, Pierce was sur­rounded by student activists and demonstrations, he said, and was part of a candlelight march in Riverside, California protesting Richard Nixon's sending of troops into Cambo­dia. 
At that time, Pierce became very interested in politics, he said. As an undergraduate he studied student activism and protest, then conventional poli­tics at Rutgers. In 1981, he ac­cepted a position at Saint Mary's. 
Pierce joked that he is out­numbered in that he lives with a wife and two daughters, but called himself a feminist. 
"Men hold feminist views on the basis of ideology, but women hold them on the basis of experience," Pierce stated. 
Tim Roemer acknowledges NO sesquicentennial 
Special to The Observer 
Indiana Third District Con­gressman Tim Roemer ac­knowledged Notre Dame's sesquicentennial before Congress on Tuesday, saying he was "fortunate" to have the University in his district. 
In his special order, a proclamation delivered during time set aside at the close of of­ficial legislative business, Roe­mer traced Notre Dame back to its "humble beginnings" in 1842, lauding founder Father Edward Sorin's "character and perseverance." He then praised other former University presi­dents. 
"Academic life has always been of foremost importance to both the faculty and student body of the University," Roemer said. "Social, recreational and governing bodies have created a dedicated spirit of service and volunteerism, an integral part 
of Notre Dame's original inten­
tions." 
Roemer praised Father Ed­ward Malloy's involvement in the national campaign against drug use, and his membership . in the Points of Light Initiative, a group promoting community service. 
Saying he would be "remiss" if he did not mention the suc­cess of varsity athletics, Roemer commented, "Notre Dame's football program prides itself not only on its outstanding athletic ability, but also enjoys a graduation rate of over 99 percent of its players." 
Roemer said he was "fortunate to have had the op­portunity to pursue (his) grad­uate education at Notre Dame, and even more fortunate to have this institution in the Third Congressional District of Indiana, which (he) repre­sent ( s) " 


Indictment against alleged terrorists is obtained 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Justice Department has ob­tained an indictment against alleged terrorists for the Dec. 21, 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight103 over Lockerbie, Scot­land, a government source said Wednesday. 
The indictment, which Justice Department officials were planning to announce at a press conference on Thursday, is the first set of criminal charges arising from the bomb, which destroyed the New York-bound airliner after it took off from London. 
The bomb concealed in a ra­dio-cassette recorder killed all 259 people on board and 11 on the ground. 
The specific nature of the charges, or the identity of the suspects could not be deter­mined. But there have been re­ports that the international in­vestigation was focusing on Libyan agents. 
The French government has evidence that the brother-in­law of Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi and other high-ranking Libyans planned the Lockerbie bombing, The Washington Post reported Oct. 31. 
The flight originated in Frankfurt, Germany, and changed aircraft in London. 

Flower Deliver): 7 Days


f'@zsy o Pptt~tt 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
~~~~~3rNs:hre (219) 277·1291 
South lea IN 46637 P~lll AIIW••• Z4 larl. 



..............................---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·--­
The Observer 

Thursday, November 14, 1991 pageS 
Bush assures domestic attention 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) ­President Bush used a speech to a farm group in the nation's heartland on Wednesday to de­fend his attention to foreign af­fairs, calling accusations that he is shortchanging domestic concerns "hogwash." 
"I will never apologize for a single minute I devote to pro­moting America's interests abroad," Bush told the Future Farmers of America. 
He described his overseas ef­forts as work to promote world peace and to open new markets for U.S. farm goods and other products. 
Bush also kept up the pum­meling of congressional Democrats that has character­ized his campaign-like speeches of the past few weeks, asserting that "Congress isn't getting the message" on his legislative proposals. 
In Washington, Senate Major­ity Leader George Mitchell, D­Maine, described Bush's con­tinued attacks on Democrats as "Panic City" for the White House. 
Later, at a political fundraiser in St. Louis, Bush said he was aware of recent public opinion polls showing that his approval rating had slumped. "I see these polls out there and every once in a while I look at them," he said. 
But he insisted he didn't live or die by the polls. "I certainly · don't want to die by them," he 
quipped. 
As he had done in Kansas City, Bush defended his foreign policy interests. "I am not going to be the president who shirks his responsibility to expand our markets abroad," Bush said. 
He also said it was his job to 
pay attention to major foreign 
policy developments. 

Bush's St. Louis speech to a $2 50-a-plate fundraiser for Sen. Christopher Bond, R-Mo., was briefly interrupted by AIDS protesters. "I have no anger in my heart when I hear people that are expressing their con­cern," Bush said. 
He noted last week's disclo­sure by basketball superstar Magic Johnson that he had tested positive for the HIV virus and also said the federal gov­ernment has been doing a "first class job" on AIDS research. 
"We're going to keep on doing it until we can bring a com­passionate end to this American tragedy," Bush vowed. 
In an interview with KPLR-TV in St. Louis, Bush reiterated that he had asked Johnson to serve on the National Commis­sion on AIDS. ''I'd like to see Magic Johnson on (the) com­mission, if he feels that it's something he's interested in doing." 
On the economy, Bush reiter­ated his plea of the day before that credit card organizations should lower their rates. He noted that one card issuer ­AT&T -had responded by lowering its rates, which he hailed. 
In Kansas City, he predicted "years of political trench war­fare" on his education bill and accused Congress of dragging its feet on his proposals for lower capital-gains tax rates and for banking overhaul. 
But he was the most animated in answering criticism that he spends too much tim~ pursuing foreign instead of domestic policy -a common complaint by Democrats and also a view shared by many Americans, according to public opinion polls. 
"That's hogwash," Bush said. "That whole line of argument is misleading." 
''I'm sure that you understand that what I'm working at is a real-world approach to creating more jobs and more wealth for Americans in America," Bush told the audience of teenagers. 
The president also said that his dealings with Soviet, East­ern European and Middl~ East­ern leaders were important in promoting world peace. 
Bush recently postponed a ten-day trip to Asia and Aus­tralia that was to begin on Thanksgiving, saying he didn't want to leave town while Congress was still in session. 
In Washington, Senate Major­ity Leader Mitchell took a re­turn swipe at Bush, telling re­porters, "As the president's poll numbers go down, the White House gets more and more panicky." 
Mitchell said Bush's "efforts to blame others for what are obvious failures of his adminis­tration are actually very pa­thetic." 
Bush's ratings in polls have been slumping dramatically in recent weeks, apparently re­flecting American concerns about the faltering economy. 
The president increasingly has been seeking to blame Democrats in Congress for the nation's economic woes. 

The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 

Watch out 
This fire hydrant in the middle of North Quad prevents quad athletes from participating in sports blindly. A good sport always has to keep one eye on this red hazard. 

..
page6 The Observer Thursday, November 14, 1991 

LOS ANGELES (AP) ­Eccentric entertainer Michael Jackson, who moon-walked to stardom and a $50 million recording contract, is emerging from two years of professional dormancy with a new music video. 
Jackson's 11-minute "Black or White" video, rumored to cost $4 million, debuts Thurs­day in 27 countries, including Fox Television and cable's MTV and VH-1 music video channel in the United States, both at 8:24 p.m. EST. 
His long-awaited "Dangerous" album, coming four years after his "Bad" LP, is being released Nov. 26 by the Sony Corp., which signed him to a record and movie pact worth an estimated $50 million-plus. 
Director David Lynch's 30­second commercial for the "Dangerous" album is already running on television and in movie theaters. 
The well-crafted media cam­paign for Jackson's newest ex­ploits is matched by America's fascination with the private Jackson, whose childlike obsessions and dysfunctional family garner tabloid headlines and whet the appetites of fans and detractors alike. 
The 33-year-old bachelor has grown into an androgynous man-child cloaked in secrecy and a white, sequined glove, and has had to cope with snickers about his altered appearance, strange lifestyle and enigmatic sexuality. 
"He's just lost touch with re­ality," Jermaine Jackson said while promoting his own al­bum, "You Said," which takes a biting musical swipe at his estranged younger brother. 
LaToya Jackson has said her father abused her and Michael when they were children. A bootleg version of Jermaine's "Word to the Badd!!" single criticizes Michael for allegedly bleaching -his skin and undergoing plastic surgery. Sister 
"The family situation is so sad," said Jackson's movie di­rector and friend, John Landis. "Michael has a very difficult life. Granted, Michael does strange things that people like to speculate on. 
"But you see, it is ultimately up to the public and it doesn't matter what the media says." 
Over the years, newspapers have reported Jackson's alleged use of an oxygen chamber and his $1 million bid for the corpse of "Elephant Man" John Merrick. Katharine Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor, Nancy Reagan, Paul McCartney, Madonna and a chimpanzee named Bubbles are said to be among his clos­est friends. 
Jackson's obsession with the late Walt Disney has led him to seek out everyone who ever knew him, including Disney's widow, Lillian, and their daughter, Diane Miller. The singer's home features a Disney shrine, complete with portraits of Walt Disney collectables. 
Peculiar as he may seem, however, Jackson's accom­plishments are breathtaking. President Bush recognized him as the artist of the decade during a 1990 White House ceremony. He has sold more than 110 million albums. He owns the 251-song Beatles collection. 
The "Dangerous" album deal came on the heals of another multimillion-dollar contract that failed to deliver. 
Jackson was signed by the athletic footwear company 
L.A. Gear to design a line of shoes, but the buckle-laden, boot-like sneakers didn't thrill shoppers and the company suffered a loss. 
..Has he lost it? Are you kid­ding? Half-a-billion people ­500 million -will be seeing this video on one night," said Landis, director of the "Black or White" video. 

"Videos are really just com­mercials to sell the records, and these networks are paying for the privilege.... Michael has a bit of P.T. Barnum in him." 
Jackson has worked his magic before, lifting the music business out of its 1983 slump with his "Thriller" album and video, and the industry predicts the pop sensation is about to perform an encore with his latest 14-song collection. 
"He has not peaked in our minds, nor the minds of our audience," said Abbey Konow­itch, MTV's senior vice presi­dent of music programming. 
"When 'Thriller' came out, the record industry was in economic doldrums much like it is now. He lifted the industry out of the doldrums then, and we believe he can bring the excitement back to the music industry now." 
Michael Greene, president of the National Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences, which has awarded 13 Grammy Awards to the superstar, said the "Dangerous" album will help the recession-plagued in­dustry. 
"We have had an 11 percent drop in sales the first half of 1991, but I think a lot of that will be ameliorated by the big name product being released within the next month and a half," Greene said. 
"Michael truly believes the audience deserves the best," Landis said. ..He's a perfectionist, and this reflects that." 
Soviet dancers ask for help from the .U.S. government 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Two Soviet dancers who left the Kirov Ballet while it was visiting Washington two weeks ago were drugged by a Soviet emi­gre and held here against their will, the troupe's artistic direc­tor said Wednesday. 
"All their documents, pass­ports, money -everything was taken from them," artistic di­rector Oleg Vinogradov said in a telephone interview. 
"They were told they were staying in the United States," he said. "They were told that jobs would be located for them and they would not go back to the company." 
The dancers have asked for help from the U.S. government, but Immigration and Natural­ization Service spokesman Duke Austin said the agency was unable to disclose the nature of their request. 
Agency officials interviewed the dancers Wednesday, and Austin said that they would "be processed accordingly." They may remain in this country until a decision is made in sev­eral weeks. 
Officials earlier said the pair may ask for political asylum. 
The troupe was scheduled to return to the Soviet Union on Wednesday night. Austin said the two dancers appeared un­likely to leave with the others. 
Ballet spokeswoman Jenny Lerner identified the dancers as Alexandra Kolton and Zhanna Sinitsyna, junior members in their early 20s. 
They disappeared Oct. 27, at the end of the Kirov's two-week engagement at the Kennedy Center, she said. 
Vinogradov quoted the dancers as saying they went to dinner the night they left the troupe. They were then taken to New York by the emigre with a promise of auditions with the New York City Ballet, he said. 
A Kirov spokeswoman said they attended classes with the New York company but never got auditions. 
Vinogradov said Kolton and Sinitsyna called him last week­end from New York after escaping from the emigre. 
..They wanted to return home," he said. "They asked for help, which we gave." 
Tuesday night, police were called to a Washington apart­ment where they found Vino­gradov and the two dancers as well as the emigre. Vinogradov said he called the police after the emigre demanded that the dancers leave with him. 
Police found the women out­side the complex in a vehicle with the ballet director. Officers blocked the driveway to prevent the vehicle from leaving, police said. 
The women were questioned at a police station but did not say what they wanted, Austin said. Their visas had expired, he said. 
Vinogradov reportedly also was taken to the station and later left without the dancers. 
Vinogradov said ballet offi­cials did not try force the dancers to leave the United States. 
"No matter what they choose, the situation in the Soviet Union is completely different today," he said. 
The Kirov, based in the Soviet city of St. Petersburg, is one of the world's leading ballet com­panies. 
Asylum requests from the So­viet Union have grown dramat­ically as travel to the United States has increased. In 1987, 36 Soviet citizens applied for asylum; in 1990, 1,043 applied. 

Morris Civic Auditorium -South Bend November 22-23-24 Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 & 8 p.m., Sunday 2 p.m. E.S.T. Tickets: $12.50 to $26.50 Box Office Open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday 
and until curtain on show days. Phone (219) 284-9190 MasterCard & VISA Accepted Group, Student & Senior Citizen Discounts 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
Special Student Offer: 2 Tickets for the Price of One -$16.50 (Sunday Matinee Only) 

Thursday, November 14, 1991 The Observer page 7 
-~· m;· 
.. fm'? 
··~: .' '·: 
h=i~~ 

The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
No jacket required 

Notre Dame sophomores Bill Bormley and Brad Shebib (left to right) play with dog 'Beau' Wednesday when the temperatures were unseasonably high. 
rth A 
STUDENTS and Business Experts Discussing the Dynamics of the New Trade Agreement as it Pertains to Mexico, the United States and Canada. 

Louisiana Republicans face difficult decision 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) ­Louisiana Republicans may be deciding more than whether to vote for their party's unofficial gubernatorial candidate, former Klan leader David Duke, in Saturday's runoff. They may be deciding the fate of a state party they spent years building into a political force. 
Duke and former Gov. Edwin Edwards knocked out incumbent Buddy Roemer, a recent GOP convert backed by the Bush administration, in an Oct. 19 open primary. 
That leaves party members with a choice most would rather not have to make -a Republican with a background as a white supremacist or a populist Democrat. Duke is running as a Republican despite being rebuked by President Bush and national party leaders. 
"We're split badly right now," said Linda Talbert, a state GOP central committee member. "After 20 years of building a 'Don't vote for Edwards' base, it's very hard now for people to go into the booth and pull that our smaller numbers by great organization, now the organization is floundering. We need something to bring us together," Wagner said. 


lever.  
"There are those of us who  
feel not pulling it is going to be  
worse though. Worse for the  
state and the party," she said.  
A voter survey completed  
three days ago showed  
Edwards ahead.  
Fifty-two percent of the  
respondents to the poll said  
they would vote for Edwards,  
while only 26 percent said they would vote for Duke. Twenty­ J.  
two percent were undecided.  
The University of New Orleans  
poll released Wednesday has a  
margin of sampling error of 3.6  
percentage points.  
Edwards still lead by 46-40  
percent even adjusting the  
survey for the "hidden vote" of  
people who do not want to  
admit they support Duke. Bryan Wagner, a member of  1  
the state GOP central  
committee, said the party is  
facing disaster.  
"We have always made up for  

Talbert said she believes 
about 35 percent of Louisiana's 
roughly 400,000 Republicans 
will vote for Duke. 
One of them is Michelle 
Shauer, a former campaign 
coordinator for Roemer who 

joined the Duke campaign two 
weeks ago. 

"I just can't support a liberal like Edwards," said Shauer, 23. "For many Republicans my age, Duke is a better choice. They feel David will give Republican legislators in office a chance to make good laws -laws they approve of. They are afraid if Edwards is elected, Republicans in office will have no voice." 
State party officials have made no endorsement in the runoff election. In the primary, they bucked national party leaders by endorsing U.S. Rep. Clyde Holloway, whose followers dominated small party caucuses last summer. 
Holloway ran fourth primary and has since said he won't endorse, or vote for, either candidate. 
While the party hasn't taken an official position, Roemer and former Gov. David Treen put aside their long, bitter rivalries with Edwards, saying they would vote for him. 
Other state party leaders have shied away from public comment. 
"We've sort of boxed ourselves into a real uncomfortable position," said Ed Miller, 64, a district chairman for 15 northern Louisiana parishes. "Our people are real conservative and they like a lot of what Duke says, even those who don't like Duke." 
Treen, who helped build the Louisiana GOP from the days when it was said Republicans could hold their convention in a phone booth, said the party will face serious problems if Duke wins. And if Duke loses, he will still be a factor, he said. 
"Whether he's a significant factor remains to be seen," Treen said. "I don't believe he speaks for mainstream Republicans, but he ·.will continue to try to use the party for his own agenda." 
Dennis Burke, 42, supported Roemer before the primary. He has jumped to the Duke campaign, devoting 14 or more hours a day and about $2,000 to the effort. 

page 8 The Observer Thursday, November 14, 1991 
House OKs family leave bill but Bush may still veto 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House approved Wednesday a Senate-passed bill guaranteeing many workers up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave in family emer­gencies, but by less than the two-thirds majority that would be needed to override President Bush's threatened veto. 
The final vote was 253-177, leaving supporters 34 votes short of a veto-proof majority. 
"We're a long way from where we'd like to be," Rep. Pa­tricia Schroeder, D-Colo. and a leading supporter of the bill, said in anticipation of the vote. 
The legislation, which last month won Senate approval on a vote of 65-32, is a slightly scaled-back version of the bill Bush vetoed a year ago. His veto threat against the latest version was renewed Wednes­day in a statement from the White House budget office. 
The House vote came as Democrats were trying to in­crease the pressure on Bush on domestic issues and at a time when Bush's popularity is suf­fering from the recession. 

But it also marked the second time in a week that House Democratic leaders have failed to muster a veto-proof majority on a top domestic issue. Only last week House Democrats fell short of the two-thirds majority to block enforcement of Bush's regulation banning abortion counseling in federally aided family-planning clinics. 
Supporters actually achieved a two-thirds majority on a pre­liminary vote, 287-143, to sub­stitute a version nearly identical to the Senate-passed version for the stronger original House bill. But 34 House members abandoned the bill on final passage. 
"Members like to have it both ways," said Rep. Marge Roukema, R-N.J., the leading GOP sponsor. 
Roukema said she would renew her request to meet with Bush to discuss the bill and held out hopes Bush might relent in his veto threat. She said supporters had gained 21 votes over last year. 
"It's not veto proof, but let's say the White House reads trends too . . . and the trend is clear," Roukema said. 
The family and medical leave bill would require employers of 50 or more employees to guar­antee workers up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave due to illness, the birth or adoption of a child, or to care for an ill family member. 
Supporters said such a leave policy should be at the mini­mum in an economy in which two incomes are a necessity for many families. They sought to depict Bush as insensitive to the needs of working families. 
"What's the administration's family leave program? 'Home Alone,"' said Schroeder, who came to the House floor with a poster for the movie. "If you want to have children, leave them 'Home Alone."' 
Because of the minor varia­tions between the Senate and House versions, the measure would have to go to a confer­ence committee to resolve dif­ferences and be approved again before reaching Bush's desk. 
Supporters said they may hold the bill in that conference until next year to give them time to try to win more supporters and to avoid a pocket veto by Bush after Congress recesses for the year. That would also let Democrats send the bill to Bush in an election year. 
Although opponents frequently cited the costs to small businesses, the bill's exemption for businesses with fewer than 50 employees means 95 percent of all employers would not be covered. 
The bill provides the same leave to federal workers and congressional employees as for eligible private workers. 
The House easily defeated, 291­138, an alternative that would not guarantee leave but would give a rehiring preference to employees who quit because of family needs or illness. 
Opponents charged the fam­ily-leave bill would increase costs for businesses, requiring them to recruit and train re­placement workers or pay over­time to existing workers. 
..Just because the bill has a popular title, we should not blindly accept legislation that will do serious damage in the long run," said Rep. Jimmy Quillen. R-Tenn. 
Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R­Calif., said.the bill would be "a burden on American business in the middle of a recession." 
Some business groups are concerned that an unpaid fam­ily-leave policy could lead to a later requirement of paid leave. 
The bill had some support from conservatives, however. Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., a leader of anti-abortion forces in the House, said, "This is pro-family legislation and therefore it is pro-conservative." 
Supporters said the United States is the only industrialized nation that fails to offer such a minimum leave guarantee. 
Dalkon Shield users go back to courts for higher awards 
SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) ­Thousands of women injured by the Dalkon Shield are going back to court, rejecting what they call "stingy" settlement of­fers from a trust set up to pay claims. 
The trust has responded by hiring lawyers who used to work for A.H. Robins Co., the contraceptive device's defunct maker, which went out of busi­ness in 1985 while facing about 325,000 claims. 
Lawyers for the women charged that the move was meant to scare them into ac­cepting settlement offers. 
..First the trust offers us st­ingy settlements and now they go and hire these legal sharks that will make it very difficult and expensive to fight for our clients," said David Sabih, who represents 1 ,000 Dalkon Shield victims in one of the first cases to return to court in San Jose. 

"A.H. Robins, which used a lot of questionable legal tactics, was an angel compared to this trust." 
Georgene Vairo, chairwoman and spokeswoman for the Dalkon Shield Claims Resolution Facility, acknowledged hiring attorneys who worked for Robins, but called it a cost­cutting move capitalizing on their familiarity with the case. 
The trust, based in Richmond, Va., has a policy of not using lawyers accused of questionable litigation tactics in past handling of Dalkon Shield cases, she said. 
"The vast majority of the claimants accepted settle­ments," Vairo said. "Some are unhappy. which is why we're seeing a new round of litigation. We have no reason not to pay people, but they can't all get what they want." 
The Dalkon Shield was pulled from the U.S. market in 1974 after its design was blamed for thousands of spontaneous abortions, hysterectomies, painful infections and at least 18 deaths among its 3 million users. 
After years of legal battles, Robins filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 1985 because of the flood of claims.. Ultimately, a $2.5 billion trust was set up by the company that bought Robins, American Home Products Co. 
Patricia Jo Stone, a Denver lawyer representing 60 women, had filed a motion to remove trust attorneys formerly affili­ated with Robins. 
"These lawyers have an in­herent conflict of interest." Stone said. "And they are using some of the same cutthroat tactics to make money for themselves and to drag out the process so we'll give up and settle." 
A Jan. 7 hearing is set before Richmond-based federal Judge Robert Merhige, who oversees the trust. 
The trust has settled 130,000 claims for an average of $65,000 each, Vairo said. An­other 150,000 claims were dropped or rejected. About 45,000 cases remain unsettled. 
..Most people are settling for 35 to 40 percent of what their claims are worth because they just want to be done with it," said Seattle attorney Ralph Pit­tie, who has some 1,000 Dalkon Shield clients. 
The trust, which is collecting $500,000 in daily interest, now stands at about $2.3 billion. Any money left over will be di­vided among all of the women. 



Dick's Marathon 
102 South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN • 234-0707 • 289-7622 
This certificate good for 
NE (1) FREE TOW TO OUR STATION FOR REPAIR. 
FREE (Value $45.00) FREE 
Valid 10 mile radius from our station Oil lube filter $1 2. 9 5 + tax and shop fee 
Cash value .001 mills One Certificate Per Visit 


gofdoing ayearofservice? How aboutdoingit 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
·Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219) 239-6385 
Thefollowing two people were inadvertently omittedfrom the Announcing "CoUoquyfor the Year 2000" ad which ran on Tuesday. Our apologies to Donald Spicer--assistant provostfor University computing and Richard V. Warner, CS.C, counselor to the president and director ofcampus ministry Both wiU serve on the Committee on Mission, opportunities and ChaUenges. 
The Observer regrets the error. 
THEOLOGY AT SAINT MARv•s COLLEGE 
Spring 1992 ELECTIVES 
RLST 306 RLTS 312 
RLST 370 RLST 380 RLST 445 
Biblical Theology Theologies of Love 
Faith Meets Philosophy World Religions History of Theology 

Weiss  MW  3:25pm  
Malits  M  6:30pm  
or T  6:30pm  
lncandela  TT  11:00am  
Martin  TT  2:45pm  
Mize  To Be Arranged  

ND students fulfil tbe first requirement in theology by taking RLST 200 and tbe second requirement by taking RLST 201·299. ND Students register by DART. See DART book, D. 58. Information: 284-4636 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·­
Business 
Thursday, November 14, 1991 page 9 

NEW YORK (AP)-Even if President Bush were successful in pressuring banks to lower their credit card interest rates, many economists and financial analysts doubt it would do much to help the struggling economy. 
They say consumers never have shown much inclination either to increase or decrease their credit card spending merely on the basis of what it costs them to borrow. 
"I wouldn't expect any dra­matic change at all," said William Brennan, a specialist in taxes and financial planning in Washington for the accounting firm of Ernst & Young. 
Bush raised the issue at a fund-raising lunch Tuesday in New York, declaring, ''I'd frankly like to see the credit card rates down. I believe that would help stimulate the con­sumer and get the consumer confidence moving again." 
The interest rates charged by 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Women with four years of college earn roughly the same salary as men with only a high-school diploma, according to government statistics released Wednesday. At every education level, women make less money than men with the same amount of schooling. 
An Associated Press analysis of U.S. Census Bureau numbers also found that the pay gap be­tween full-time working men and women grows wider as they get older. 
A college-educated woman between the ages of 18-24 earns an average 92 cents for every dollar earned by a man of the same age and education. Her earnings drop steadily and by the time she is between ages 55 and 64, the average female worker is making 54 cents for every dollar earned by a man. 
The gap is just as wide be­tween men and women workers who did not go to college. 
It is illegal to pay women less for equal work. But the law says nothing about paying peo­ple differently if they do differ­ent jobs. According to experts, the pay gap reflects lower salaries paid in fields tradi­tionally dominated by women and the difficulty women have breaking through the so-called "glass ceiling" to higher paid positions. 
Some said women are paid less because it's profitable for· their companies. 
"That discrimination pays, otherwise it wouldn't have flourished so long," said Karen Nussbaum, executive director of 9 to 5, a Cleveland-based as­sociation of 15,000 working women. "You can bet people say, 'We can get her for less than we can get him.' You know it goes on." 
Women earn less if they choose careers in fields domi­nated by women. These fields include nursing, social work, clerical jobs and teaching in the public schools, experts say. 
"The fact of the matter is, many women don't wish to go into non-traditional, male dominated occupations," said Carolin Head, assistant director of the American Association of University Women.. "It is not acceptable in this country to tell nurses and teachers that if they want to make more, they need to choose a different oc­cupation." 
Heidi Hartman, an economist and director of the Institute for Women's Policy Research, said her organization's studies show a year of experience adds about 7 cents an hour to a women's pay, compared with 24 cents an hour for men. 
"Women's jobs have not been structured to reward experi­ence," Hartman said. "That means there's no incentive to train them, to have productivity increases or skills increases." 
Adult women with four years of high school on average earn $17,809 a year, about two­thirds of what a man with simi­lar education would earn. With four years of college, women's earnings rise to $27,344. 
That's only about $600 more than what an adult man with a high-school education earns. Four years of college increases his pay to $42,500, more than $15,000 above what a college­
JohnSOn'S announcement leads companies to research AIDS policies 
NEW YORK (AP) -The com­passion and support that em­braced Magic Johnson after he announced his infection with the HIV virus, which causes the disease AIDS, is not typical of the reaction many patients face when they break the news to their employers. 
Aside from a few leaders, such as Digital Equipment Corp., Levi Strauss & Co. and International Business Ma­chines Corp., most employers lack any formal AIDS policy and procedures. 
"The vast majority of compa­nies have done nothing and smaller companies have done even less," said Alan Emery, a San Francisco-based manage­ment' health consultant. 
But just as. Johnson's an­nouncement is helping individu­als realize the disease could touch them, employers are starting to understand that basketball star, Johnson, dis­closed his infection, companies have been scrambling to gather information on how they should respond if a worker becomes infected. 
Smaller companies frequently haven't encountered the situa­tion and are caught unprepared when a worker tests positive for HIV, said B.J. Stiles, president of the National Leadership Coalition on AIDS, which counts companies and labor organizations among its mem­bers. 
A 1988 survey of 623 U.S. companies, commissioned by Fortune magazine and Allstate Insurance Co., found that 19 percent of the companies had a written or unwritten AIDS pol­icy. Eleven percent were con­sidering a policy, according to the survey, Business Response to AIDS. 
Business leaders have come improving, but AIDS activists say discrimination is still a fact of life for many. 
"Magic Johnson is atypical. ... People should think carefully about informing their em­ployer," said Carissa Cunning­ham, spokeswoman for the AIDS Action Council, which lobbies Congress on AIDS is­sues. 
Most HIV-infected workers have less physically demanding jobs than Johnson's and won't have to retire or quit to take care of themselves. 
"One unfortunate aspect is he announced his HIV status at the same time he announced his retirement," said Ruth Harlow, staff attorney for the American Civil Uberties Union AIDS Pro­ject. "It plants in people's minds that you can't do your job." 
On-the-job reactions range from getting fired to being os­tracized by co-workers who 
Analysts doubt power of credit card rate cuts 
banks and other credit card is­suers, which often run at 18 percent to 20 percent annually , have long been criticized by consumer advocates as exces­sive. 
Their complaints have inten­sified in the past year as other interest rates have fallen sharply. The bank prime lend­ing rate, which serves as a ref­erence point from which charges are calculated on many types of floating-rate loans, stands at 7.5 percent, down from 10 percent a year ago. 
At the same time, the interest rates banks pay depositors also have tumbled. Bank Rate Monitor, a financial newsletter in North Palm Beach, Fla., says the average rate savers get on 12-month certificates of deposit stood early this month at 5.22 percent, down from 7.5 percent a year earlier. 
To many people, that makes a potent case for lower credit card rates as well. 

Women receive unequal pay for equal education 
educated woman earns. 
The study confirmed other findings that women get a raw deal on pay day and on the promotion list. 
•The 
Feminist Majority Foundation recently found that fewer than 3 percent of the top jobs at Fortune 500 companies were held by women. 

•A 
Labor Department study of promotion in nine big com­panies prompted Labor Secre­tary Lynn Martin in August to vow to shatter the "glass ceil­ing" that bars women and mi­norities from the executive suites. 

•The 
Bureau of Labor Statistics since 1979 has col­lected figures showing women's pay overall has lagged behind men's. In that year women earned 62 cents for each dollar earned by men. Since then their earnings have crept up to 70 cents on the dollar. 

•
Even on the tennis court women lose out financially. Of­ficials of the Wimbledon tour­nament in May said the women's champion would re­ceive $367,000, but the men's 


champion would get $408,000. 
Some groups, like the Na­tional Commission on Pay Equity, are lobbying employers to target women in their re­cruiting for traditionally male jobs. 
"If the opportunities are there, women will train for them," said the organization's acting director, Kelly Jenkins. Also, "it's a problem of en­couraging women to think about those careers as careers that are open to them." 
The census study found men and women age 25 and over had about an equal chance of having a high school education. For both, more than three­fourths had four years of high school, the highest level ever. In 1940, less than one-fourth of Americans had completed four years of high school. 
Women were less likely to get a full college education. Fewer than one out of every five women had at least four years of college, compared to one out of four men. 

AP File Photo 

their workers and business aren't immune. 
Since the Los Angeles Lakers to understand AIDS better in the past few years and the situ­ation for afflicted workers is 

don't want to sit next to an afflicted employee or use the patient's telephone. 
Since Los Angeles Laker Magic Johnson announced his infection with the HIV virus, many businesses have started gathering information on possible policies on dealing with workers with AIDS. 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, November 14, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor................. .Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported a~ accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors .. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Fur coats demonstrate vanity, not Christianity 
Dear Editor: 
This past weekend, our cam­pus was once again swamped with all of the fans, parents and alumni who come here to visit on football weekends. I really enjoy having all of these people around; they add a lot to the sense of excitement and the feeling of friendliness that per­vade our campus. However, there is one thing that I have noticed consistently during football weekends which really bothers me: So many of these (presumably wealthy) visitors wear fur coats. 
I am an animal rights activist, but I am not writing to advocate the sabotaging of research facilities. Nor am I trying to convince anyone to give up eat­ing meat and wearing leather. I certainly don't condone the destruction of other people's 
DDONESBURY 
I APPRECI­
A7t iOUR ~CU., I'M MeeTING ANXIOUS TO IU!THM£,ttt~. ~::tio f?e()FtRN. 5AYABOUT QUAYtb... 
\ ...-~...... 
property, and I realize that some people feel that meat and leather goods are necessities. 
Furs are not a necessity. There are plenty of other kinds of coats that can keep us warm quite nicely. So what is the justification of wearing a fur coat? How can anyone possibly assume that God has given us the right to take the life of an­other one of God's creatures for the sake of our own vanity? 
I went to mass at Sacred Heart Church on Sunday. Upon observing how many people proceeded up to receive Communion in their fur coats, I could not help but think that perhaps our Christianity here at 
Notre Dame is  a  bit too  an­ 
thropocentric.  J ane E. Smiley Knott Hall  
Nov. 11, 1991  

I 51-0UW WARN Ya.J, THa&f, I MtlY NOT 8e ABU3 70 use IT. OPA FIU35 CONTAIN A LOTOF 
RAW tJATA. I'M NOT IN~~~ 7He BUS/Nt~ OF PA?SINGON UN-' 5/JBSTANT/ATW 
AUl36A7/0NS. 

contributing to this form of It is clear that the university's And the existence of musical di­persecution . student leaders do not want us versity at ND/SMC is something to completely severe our ties we can't smile without . 
No performer since Fatty with the music we listened to in Arbuckle has been so severely fifth grade, as a recent AnTostal Michael Aleman ostracized from the realm of questionnaire included REO Michael Zimmer respected artists. But Barry has Speedwagon as a potential Fisher Hall committed no crime. While national "band" to bring to Nov. 7, 1991 
Letter advertising lecture did not speak for GSU 
Dear Editor: to the GSU. This, however, is on this issue has been one-sided 
not the case. and the GSU felt it necessary to 
I am writing on behalf of the remedy this imbalance. This Graduate Student Union re­First, no GSU committee chair was not the case. garding a recent letter adver­can speak for the GSU as a tising a lecture and debate on whole on an issue such as this. Finally, to sum up, while it homosexuality, which was They can write letters ad­was fine for the Intellectual Life sponsored by the GSU vertising events; however, many Committee to co-sponsor these Intellectual Ufe Committee and perceived that this letter went events, one should not construe SUB Ideas and Issues beyond a purely advertisement that the GSU endorsed either Commission ("Lecture will artic­function. the position taken by any of the ulate Church's teaching on ho­speakers or the positions taken mosexuality," Nov. 5). Second, the GSU has not within the letter. Unfortunately, the letter was taken a stand on this issue. The Kurt Mills worded in such a way as to im­letter seemed to indicate that GSU President pute certain views and positions the GSU felt that recent debate Nov. 8, 1991 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It we couldn't laugh, 
YOU'/<£­

NO, T&L-L-.'
R16HT. 

TBt,t,!
I 813-T­

we'd all go insane.' 
Ta<.GO. 

I \ 
Jimmy Buffet 

Hear something funny? Submit it: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
----------------.­
Viewpoint
Thursday, November 14, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Journalists condescend Indians with ignorance 
Dear Editor: 
Your graphics artisit Brendan Regan seems to have busted out with an endemic journalistic variant of a social disease Mencken diagnosed in Puritans: The uneasy suspicion that somewhere, someone has refrained from writing an odi­ously complacent editorial or 
· column, self-righteously sug­gesting that American Indians should rejoice in the recogni­tion and economic benefits they derive from sports writers, promoters, and other flacks and philosopher journalists who caricature them for locker room bonhomie and profit. 
What social disease itches journalists in America to reveal themselves so artlessly and en­thusiastically whenever they get a chance to condescend to Indi­ans? What journalistic moral appetite or Flack's aesthetic vi­sion does such a greasy parody of Chief Knockahoma or the el­egantly named "tomahawk chop" satisfy in their periodical souls? From what reptile fund do they draw their inspiration? 
Regan cited that moral vi­sionary and used slogan sales­man George Will, a hitherto un­suspected crusader for equity and treaty rights. Will, ex cathedra, pontificated that In­dians should rejoice in their "tomahawk chop," and the good will and benefits it created for the nations. 
Regan, following his appro­priately chosen mentor, insinu­ates that Indians should fawn gratefully over the recognition so decorously granted by, and avoid the ingratitude of protesting against, the "tomahawk chop." I find myself wondering what he would write about Reverend King, or Justice Marshall, if they protested against a hypothetical sports peddler, the owner of the New Orleans Minstrels, and the fans who honored African­Americans with the Coffie Shuf­fle. 
Regan here breaks out with an American social disease that has afflicted American flacks, 


Reader questions, searches for truth 
Dear Editor: 
My lack of literary skill, my poor intellect, my .scattered thoughts, my diffused beliefs, my ignorance prevent me from uttering "worthy" anything. I wish to clarify or to work through some thoughts and feelings. 
Is my belief in God a super­human effort, is it practical, is it ingrained, willed, sincere? Who is God? Why so much talk of three in one, of natures, purposes, exhortations on be­half of these sets of words? For myself I want rest, real rest; I want truth, but that of a ready sort. 
Is it truly not a damnable fact that individual lives contain the possibility of self­(de}termination? The goal, oh... the goal, it's something concerned with original sin and redemption, souls, other things as well. Spare us. Please. How do we understand this sin when we gaze back imaginatively, re­creating the years of barren nothingness which became something? Is it tragedy we have any awareness at all? Why am I sometimes bold in the face of all, not bold but indifferent, as if I were dust in a vacuum?-These thoughts must end here. My incoherence is obvious. Perhaps, for truth we must give up this pursuit. But. Who is to say, where, and how loud is the speech? 
Chris Malloy Zahm Hall Nov. 4, 1991 

'Take Back the Night' march will show unity against fear 
Dear Editor: After meeting at LeMans, we 
We would like to invite all will walk down Saint Mary's 
members of this community to Road to the Grotto for a short 
participate in the "Take Back reflection, and conclude the 
the Night" march tonight. The march at O'Shaugnessy. We 
march will commence at 7 p.m. will provide some candles and 
from the courtyard in front of we plan to sing while we 
LeMans at SMC. march. We encourage people 
This march will be an oppor­to bring extra candles, 
tunity for the entire community flashlights and noisemakers. 
to unite against violence and Everyone is welcome and we 
fear. We are symbolically and hope that you will join us. 
literally reclaiming the danger­SMC/ND C.A.R.E. ous places on campus. We are SMC Women's Alliance gathering together to show NO Women United for Justice solidarity among those who and Peace have been assaulted and SMC Senior Board anyone who has been afraid. Nov. 1 1991 

pundits and editors 'since they rejoiced in their own: cleverness in talking about "Lo( the poor Indian. They also :displayed their wit, when they merrily jested, about the killing at Sand Creek (the Colorado National Guard's second Battle Honor), that "nits make lice." 
The suggestion that by Uncle Keokukking about; enrolled tribal members will attract benefits to their people and en­forcement of their treaty rights sounds wearingly f1miliar. It does not specify whiqt; co-opted (a polite term for :Quisling) leaders and their irivader ad­viser-owners will benefit. We can safely bet that such benefits will come as regularly and generously as those specified in the treaties backed by the full faith and credit of the Federal Government, 305 treaties made; 325 unilaterally broken. 
Since the development of the tomahawk chop, as many jobs and as much benefit as we might expect from the full faith and credit of the fans has flowed to the Cherokee, Choctaw and Seminole. These benefits have flowed as a result of the good will that silence and acquiescence usually generate in blue or white-collared red­necks. 

The Illinois, Fox and Sauk gained nothing form the odious parody that the University of Illinois used as its football team's mascot. 
Not one single tribe will suffer less TB or Diabetes because they listen to journalists and flacks, and keep their mouths shut and tug their forelocks, or scalp locks, when a locker room parody offends them. 
Why do journalists flash such odious, self-righteous, ignorant, and above all gratuitous, complacency when they write about anything relating in any way to American Indians? 
A. L. Soens 
Professor of English Nov. 6, 1991 

Business Fellowship wants liberal arts students 
Dear Editor: an MBA degree. compiles a book of Chicago 
Every year, Saint Mar.y's Outside of the classroom, the Business Fellows' resumes and College is invited by the Fellows are also exposed to sends this to 80 blue-chip Graduate School of Business weekly management seminars companies who draw heavily (GSB) at the University of conducted by business from this resource for Chicago to nominate one or two professionals, as well as recruiting. students to participate in a corporate visits to major For the coming summer, 
summer business program de­Chicago-area firms. Saint Mary's has been asked to signed with liberal arts under­send two juniors majoring in a graduates in mind. Upon successful completion liberal arts discipline. I strongly Known as the Chicago of the summer curriculum. par­encourage all interested Business Fellowship, this ven­ticipants are guaranteed ad­students to attend an in­ture is intended to draw stu­mission into the GSB with three formational meeting on dents from top colleges across years to re-enter after gradua­Monday, Nov. 18 at 7 p.m. in the USA to spend the summer tion from Saint Mary's. The Haggar parlor where applica­
term taking graduate level standard entrance requirement tion materials will be dis­business classes in the GSB. A of taking the GMAT (Graduate tributed. full-tuition stipend is provided Management Admission Test) is Colleen Conley by the University and the waived. Le Mans Hall classes count as credits towards Additionally, the University Nov. 11, 1991 
Players should look to student body for consolation 
Dear Editor: On the other hand, I believe It would make the sorrow pub­
I write to disagree with your that your sports editors are lic, communal. and easier for sports editors and their column correct to take exception with all to bear. in The Observer expressing re­the players' behavior. It seems How is this affection in defeat 
sentment on behalf of the stu­foolish to me. There is a gen­to be expressed? I cannot be of 
dent fans of the football team at uine affection among the stu­much help there. abashed as I being ignored in defeat. The dents for the team, win or lose. am by the evidence of the sports editors, as the voice of The team members are stu­Sesquicentennial Mass that the student fans, seem very dents themselves, live and study there are Notre Dame individu­much self centered, even if the among their fellow students, als with genius for ritual. But. self in this case is an enlarged are known on a personal basis even one who suspects himself one, encompassing many stu­by many students. of a tin ear for ritual can say dents. The students are proud of the that the players' victory salute They seem to ignore the obvi­abilities of the players and with upraised helmets does not ous: that the team with victory moved that players so gifted seem the right gesture to draw in hand feels it has something should represent them so well the consoling applause of the worthy to offer the students and as standard bearers of good students. Perhaps, they should 
in defeat tries to bear the sportsmanship and giving one's put their helmets to the ground burden itself. Feelings of being best effort. I believe the players or just stand before the stu­ignored dissipate as soon as one foolish because this genuine dents for a moment. thinks of how players must feel affection, and its expression in JoeTama and sees that their non­sorrowful times, could be a Assistant Professor of recognition is the result of a great source of consolation to Management 
preoccupation with bearing up. them as well as to the students. Nov. 12, 1991 
Accent 
page 12 Thursday, November 14, 1991 

Saint Mary's presents 'Hansel and Gretel: An Old Tale Newly Told' 
By JULIE STROHMER Accent Writer 
A fairytale for children, a love story for teens, and a look into the past for adults is what the Saint Mary's Department of Communication, Dance and Theatre presents as their first play of the year. 
"Hansel and Gretel: An Old Tale Newly Told" by Glenn Allan Smith, is being performed by a team of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students who are working together to provide enjoyable entertainment for the entire family. 
Directed by Roberta Rude and produced by Les Baird, the production is a mixture of lessons teaching morals about greed, the cruel treatment of others and self worth. 
With more than half of the cast and crew being Saint Mary's students, most are working either for college credit, as a job towards their tuition,or just for the experi­ence. 
"Choosing to do Hansel and Gretel was something new," said· director Roberta Rude. "When first trying out for a production as a career, many people start by acting through the Theater for Young Audience, which are plays relating to younger people. 
Bringing this type of atmosphere to Saint Mary's gives the students who wish to pursue this type of a career the experience necessary to become successful." 
As Gretel, Saint Mary's student Denise Frantonius, goes into the woods on a daring and humorous 


journey to save her wandering brother Hansel from the evil witch. 
While on her search, she comes upon a handsome young woodsman named Woody, who helps her look for Hansel as they become 
confronted with dancing Gypsies, the evil of the forest, and the ravenous witch. 
The witch, played by Cecilia Martin, is a funny and greedy character whose appetite for 
attention grows out of control when people enter her territory. 
Gretel's venture into the woods, performed by Michelle McNally, marks her passage into adulthood, as she is faced with difficult and complex problems which she is forced to handle without adult supervision. 
Tryouts for the play consisted of reading from the script and doing improvisational acting. 
The players tried to form many "get-togethers" in which the actors got a chance to get to know each other on a personal basis rather than only on stage. 
"Just getting any part in the play was important to me," said Michelle Avalos, who portrays one of the Gypsies. "It is a chance for me to use my acting skills and pursue my career." 
"Hansel and Gretel: An Old Tale Newly Told" will be performed on Thursday, November 14 and Friday November 15 at 8 p.m.; Saturday, November 16 at 11 a.m. and 2:30 p.m.; and Sunday, November 17 at 
2:30 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
Tickets are priced at $6 for general admission, $5 for students and senior citizens, and $4 for Saint Mary's students. They are available at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Visa and Mastercard orders are accepted by phone at (219) 284­4626. 
The afternoon performance on Sunday is "Grandparents' Day," and every child that brings a grandparent to this performance will receive one free ticket. 
By Ann Marie Hartman Literary Critic 
"Self-help" seems to be the buzz word of the 1g..gos, as well as the subject for many of today's authors. 
The trick for these writers appears to be the quest to find a topic angle different from everyone else's that will encourage the selling of their books. 
Z. Trebla found a unique perspective in his book "What Hath Man Wrought!," a book where he asks his reader to assume a "neutral" position on religion, cultural traditions, and other personal values in efforts to see what he calls the "right light to living." 
Trebla's tactics, at the very least can be described as extreme. In the mere 71 pages of text, he critically attacks sensitive issues ranging from one's views on Christ to an individual's personal opinions regarding love. 

Trebla declares any sem­blance of religion or morality as some type of fantasy or human justification for what man cannot · explain. He describes religion as a "man­made institution...that's continuance depends on money" and denounces any type of belief derived from religion as "ridiculous." 
Being raised a good Catholic girl, this book was very difficult to swallow for it seemed that Trebla attacked every religious ideal that I held to be true. Trebla not only discounted my beliefs, but he took the furthest possible position from them that he could. 
I was nearly half-way through the book before I realized that I was giving Trebla the reaction he was hoping to achieve. 
At times I felt my beliefs were being mocked when in reality Trebia was taking the 

'What Hath Man Wrought!' What Hath questions traditional beliefs 
What Hath Man wroughtl 
Z. Trebla * * * 
(out of five) 


Wrought! 
opposite stance to stop me from seeing everything at face value. He was forcing me to think from a "neutral" position, which fulfills his purpose for writing the "What Hath Man Wrought!," as well as show me "the right light to living." 
Trebla does not expect his readers to agree with the things he writes in his book. In fact, I think that it is safe to assume that he hopes that they do not. 
I believe Trebla's whole focus 
Z. Trebla's "What Hath Man Wrought!" asks the reader to assume a
is to make his readers take 
some time out of the daily neutral postion in order to challenge traditional values. hum-drum, go to a quiet place Trebla's book, "What Hath be extremely beneficial at a and, for possibly the first time, Man Wrought!" is bizarre and time in my life where self­really question themselves on maddening, but terribly questioning is an everydaywhy they believe what they do. thought-provoking. I found it to endeavor. 


Thursday, November 14, 1991 The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All ctassifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
?'l"·· 

AP File Photo Ivan Lendl, shown during the Volvo event in Memphis, defeated Jim Courier, the world's number-two player. at the ATP Championships. 
Lendl, Sampras win big at ATP Championships 
FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) -Pete Sampras, mixing pow­erful serves with delicate pass­ing shots, beat Wimbledon champion Michael Stich 6-2, 7­6 (7-3) in the ATP Tour World Championships on Wednesday. 
Ivan Lendl beat Jim Courier 6­
2. 6-3 to go 2-0 in the event and virtually assure a spot in the last four. Courier, the top seed and the No. 2 in the world, dropped to 1-1. 
Guy Forget beat Karel Novacek 6-3, 7-6 (7 -3) to keep alive his chances of reaching the semifinals. 
The $2.25 million year-end event pits the top eight players in the world. They are split into two groups, with the top two in each group advancing to the semifmals. 
Forget, Novacek, Courier and Lendl are in one group, while Stich, Sampras, Andre Agassi and Boris Becker are in the other. Agassi and Becker were idle Wednesday. On Tuesday, Agassi beat Becker 6-3, 7-5. 
Stich plays Becker on Thursday for a place in the semifinals, Agassi meets Sampras and Lendl faces 
Novacek. 
Sampras posted an impressive victory in his first career match against Stich. 
The American, now 1-0 in the event, broke Stich in the fourth game and again in the eighth, at love, to win the first set in 29 minutes. 
"He was a bit nervous at the start, he looked uncomfortable on the surface and he wasn't hitting well from the back­court," Sampras said. 
Courier, the French Open champion, hadn't won a set against Lendl in three previous career losses and dido't look close to winning one this time. 
Lendl, making his 12th ap­pearance in the year-end event that he has won five times, was all over Courier with his power­ful all-court game. He broke for a 3-2 lead to set the pattern. 
A volley by Courier that sailed long gave Lendl the match in 80 minutes. 
Sampras, ranked seventh in the world and seeded sixth here, served well and didn't face a break point. 
The German, who has risen from 38th to fourth in the world after an impressive season that included four tournament titles, made too many errors and was just too inconsistent. 
"I served pretty well, I re­turned serve well, I was pretty confident out there," Sampras said. "He could have won the tiebreak but overall he had a pretty awful night." 
Forget, winner of the Paris Open two weeks ago, came into the championships with six tournament titles this year, ty­ing him with Edberg for most wins on the tour. 
The Frenchman, ranked sixth in the world and seeded fifth here, didn't appear seriously threatened. He broke the Czechoslovak for a 5-3 lead and cruised to victory in the first set. 
Forget will be leading France against the United States in the Davis Cup final Nov. 29-Dec. 1 at Lyon. 
"It's important to win a few matches before the Davis Cup. On the court, you don't think about it too much, but off the court the Davis Cup is a lot on mv mind," Forget said. 
Roses are red, Violets are Blue, CLAIRE BOOTHE SPRUCE , We love you! 
HAPPY 21st BILL GILL!!! 

How do we get to South Bend from West Virginia, according to MR. PERFECT? 
Take 71 EAST to Columbus. Why? Just because!!! Love, PROJECT APPALACHIA 
IF YOU SPREAD THEM, THEY WILL COME 
To MARK &BRIAN 
You are GREAT!! Our weekends wouldn't be the same with out you! 
·Shannon & Tara 
St. Mary's Women Tired of NO bands that forget you exist? Come see the 
METHA-TONES Fri. Nov. 15 Club 23 
•••••••••••••••••••••••• KELLY DAUGERDAS' BIRTHDAY IS 
TODAY! •••••••••••••••••••••••• HAPPY BIRTHDAY, OBNOXIOUS! 
(SEE, I DIDN'T FORGET! ) 
SEAN QUINN IS A STUD. BREIT BAUER IS GOOOOOD. 
A.J. IS SOOOOOO DUMB. HAPPY BIRTHDAY A.J. !!!! 
00 THE COPY SHOP 00 LaFortune Student Center Copies as low as 3¢ in volume! 
WANTED:TASTY SYR DATES INTERESTED?? BRING A BANANA TO 218 LYONS 

Squire Ravage has been docu· mented as procrastinating in regards to his present wagon ride. Maybe next week. 
RIDE NEEDED FOR THANKSGIVING 

ARE YOU DRIVING TO THE NO.JERSEY/NYC/L.I. AREA? IF SO, I WILL PAY$$ AND SPLIT DRIVING. WILL LEAVE TUES OR WED. 
PLEASE CALL X3414 

Gl Jiver, I really missed you last week!Let's ·copa at the Cabana on Friday! GM Barry M 
CARROLL HALL FOOTBALL: The Mouse that Roared. 
ZAHM FOOTBALL 
Congratulations on an outstanding season and a great game last Sunday! 
Carroll Hall The Vermin 
hi 
** Water Polo Stud ** -You know who you are! ­I just wanted to wish you 
GOOD LUCK 

at your tournament. I'm sure you 
and the rest of the team will do 
great. Thanks for being so sweet 
this week and helping me get 
through it. 
Ah Ruh Roo! Carrie 

P.S. Try not to get hurt ... but if you do, I'll make it all better!! 
. 
REPOSSESSED & IRS FORECLOSED HOMES available at below mai'Ket value. Fantastic savings! You repair. Also S&L bailout properties. Call (805) 682·7555 Ext. H-6237 
FREE TRAVEL Air couriers and Culseships. Students also needed Christmas, Spring and Summer for Amusement Paf1( enployment. Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. F-3397 
SEIZED CARS, 

trucks, boats, 4wheelers, motorhomes, by FBI, IRS, DEA Available your area now. pall (805)682-7555 Ext. C-5921
IPOSTAL JOBS AVAILABLE 

Hey everybody -it's 
K.T. MEANEY'S birthday on Saturday. Drop her a note to say hello: 33 Leinster Gardens Apt. #7 London, England W23AN 
SATURDAY NIGHT Nov.16 9:30-1 :30 Theodore's Presents ..• 
**" D.J. ZAY*** 

Dance to the sounds of: HIP HOP INDUSTRIAL HOUSE 
+ One time only: A FLASHBACK TO THE GOLDEN AGE OF 1970'S DISCO! See Ya' there!!! 
They censored our posters but they can't stop the show! THE METHA-TONES CLUB 23 Fri. Nov 15 Support both free speech and Lou & the Velvets 
PAT CLARKE IS THE LIZARD KING I 
MATI BOMBERGER IS NICODEMUS 
Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah!!!!!! Whoooooooooooo!! !I!! Gooooooooooooooooo!!I!!I!! 
Don't touch my behonkey!!!!!! 
. 
; 
' 
I I 
! 
I 
l

BREAKS
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
DAYTONA laCN ,....$fQ4 
5 ilncJ 7 NIGHT! 
SOUTH PADRE ISL 4ND ~-If28 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT -.omlf22 
2. 5 AND 7 N/CiHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ~ ~ Sf22 
7 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE .,,'"$fJ6 
1 NIGHTS 
HILTM ,.,._1\J,MD •"" 11f9 
5 AND l ;j";(;ifls , 
IIUSTANC ISLAND / 
"""' SJZS PORT ARANSAS 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
nth anniKit Celebration! 
TOLL FREE INFOI!MAT ON &RISIIIVATIONI 
1·800·321·5911 
~~ ----~ 
r--~-----------­
.I 
page 14 Thursday, November 14, 1991
SCOREBOARD 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dtvlelon 
w L Philadelphia 5 2 Miami 3 2 New York 4 3 Orlando 4 3 BOlton 3 4 Washington 2 5 New Jersey 1 5 Central Dtvt.lon Chicago 6 2 Atlanta 4 2 Detroit 4 3 Milwaukee 4 4 ndiana 3 5 Cleveland 2 4 Chcuione 1 7r ~ 

II 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldweat Dlvlelon w L 
Houston 5 1 

I San Antonio 4 1 Utah 4 3 Denver 3 3 Minnesota 1 4 Dalas 1 6 Pacific Dlvt.lon Golden State 6 1 LA Clippers 5 2 Seattle 3 2 Ponland 4 3 Phoenix 3 4 LA Lakers 2 3 Sacramento 2 5 Tuelday'e Gamea 
New Yoftlll8, New Jersey 118 Orlando 95, Washington 82 Atlanta 118, Charlotte 100 Cleveland 119, Milwaukee 113 Chicago 110, Detroit 93 Houston 118, Daflas 92 
Golden Stale119, Phoenix 116 Boston 126, Sacramento 103 Portland 120, Denver 82 
Wldnelday'e Game• 
La1e Games Not Included Utah 98, New Jersey 92 Philadelphia 121, Orlando 100 Miami 107, Detroit 102 Chicago 117, Charlotte 95 Indiana 110, New York 107 Washington at Minnesota, (n) LA Clippers at San Antonio, (n) Boston at Phoenix, (n) 
NHL SCHEDULE 
Tueeday'a Gamea New Jersey 5, Philadelphia 2 Hartford 5, Quebec 4 Mlnnesola 7, Toronto 0 Detroit 5, Calgary 4, OT Buffalo 7, San Jose 1 Vancouver 8, Los Angeles 2 
Wldneeday'a Gamea Washington 5, N.Y. Rangers 3 Pitt&burgh 5, Edmonton 4, OT 
Ptt .714 .600 .571 .571 .429 .286 .167 
.750 .667 .571 .500 435 .333 .125 
Ptt .833 .800 .571 .500 .200 .143 
.857 .714 .600 .571 .429 .400 .286 
~ 
1 1 1 2 3 3112 
1 1112 2 
3 3 5 
~ 
112 1 112 2 3112 4112 
1 2 2 3 3 4 

L10  Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
5-2  Won 5  3-1  2·1  4·2  
3·2  Won 1  2-1  1·1  3-2  
4·3  Lost 1  4·0  0-3  4·3  
4-3  Lost 1  2·1  2·2  4·3  
3·4  Won 1  1-2  2·2  2-4  
2-5  Lost 5  1-3  1·2  2-4  
1-5  Lost 5  0-3  1·2  1-4  
6-2  Won 5  4·1  2-1  5-1  
4-2  Won 3  3-1  H  3-2  
4-3  Lost 2  2·1  2·2  4·3  
4-4  Lost 2  2-1  2·3  3-3  
3-5  Won 1  2-1  1-4  1·1  
2-4  Won 1  1-0  1-4  1-0  
1-7  lost 4  1-3  0-4  1-7  
L10  Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
5-1  Won 4  4-0  1·1  4-1  
4-1  Won 2  3·0  1-1  3-1  
4-3  Won 3  2-1  2-2  3-1  
3-3  Lost 2  3·1  0-2  3-3  
1-4  Lost 1  0-2  1·2  1-4  
1·6  Lost 3  0·3  1·3  1-3  
6-1  Won 2  2-0  4·1  3-0  
5-2  Won 1  4-0  1·2  3-2  
3-2  Won 3  2·2  1-0  2·2  
4·3  Won 3  4·1  0-2  1·3  
3-4  Lost 2  1-1  2-3  3·3  
2·3  Won 1  1-1  1·2  2·3  
2·5  Lost 3  2·2  0-3  1-4  
Thureday'e Gamea  

Seattle a1 CleYeland, 7:30p.m. LA Clippers at Dallas, 8:30p.m. LA Lakers a1 Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Atlanta a1 Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
Frlday'a Gamea Philadelphia at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Washington at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Charlotte a1 Mlam, 7:30 p.m. Seattle at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Ulah a1 Detron, 8 p.m. Portland • Minnesota, 8 p.m. Milwaukee at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. Atlanta at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. Houston at LA Lakers, 1 0:30 p.m. 
1hurlday'e Gamea Quebec at Boston, 7:35 p.m. Montreat at Hartford, 7:35p.m. 

N.Y. Islanders at New Jersey, 7:35p.m. Edmonton at Phftade~hia, 7:35 p.m. Toronto at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Winnipeg at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. Vancower at Calgary, 9:35p.m. Buffalo at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Detroit a1 San Jose, 10:35 p.m. 
Friday'• Game Pittsburgh at Washington, 7:35p.m. 
ANYTHING LESS WOULD BE UNCIVILIZED 
ALL·NCAC SOCCER 
CLEVELAND (AP)-The 1991 All-North Coast Conference soccer teams, as selected In balloting by the NCAC coaches: Men Arat Team 
Goal-Marshal Chapin, Kenyon, Soph. Becb-Erlc Baker, Ohio Wesleyan, Sr.; Ben Helm, Wlnenberg, Sr.; Mphatao Namwall, Wooster, Jr.; Errvah Oral, Kenyon, Sr. lldfleldera-Chris Duff, Ohio Wesleyan, Soph.; Adam Lingo, Earlham, Sr.; Kevin Mills, Kenyon, Sr.; Jonas Osterberg, W~tenberg, Fresh. Forwud._ Michael Donovan, Kenyon, Jr.; Andy 

~ 
Kessinger, Ohio Wesleyan, Sr.; John Lollis, Wittenberg, Soph.; Warne Street, Ohio Wesleyan, Fresh. Offensive player of the year: Michael Donovan, Kenyon. Defenalve playera of the year: Marshall Chapin, Kenyon; Ben Helm, Wmenberg. Coach of the year: Steve Dawson, Wittenberg. 
Women Arat Team 
Goal-Lisa Hall, Wooster, Soph. Backe-Tammy Berger, Wooster, Jr.; Jennifer Irvin, Ohio Wesleran. Jr.; Julie Martin, Denison, Sr.; Nicki Nldtelman, Case Reserve, Soph...dflelder._Michelle Kaup, Denison, Jr.; Melissa Rao, Allegheny, Soph.; Stacie Rose, Ohio Wesleyan, Sr.; Bartlle Thot'T1lSon. Wooster, Soph. For-rda-Chris Knapp, Ohio Wesleyan. Jr.; Shellee Lamie, Ohio Wesleyan, Sr.; Angle Mouch, Ohio We&leyan, Jr.; Jen Vescio, Allegheny, Sr. Oflenalve player of the year: Stacie Rose, Ohio Wesleyan. Defensive player of the year: Lisa Hall, Wooster. Coach of tw year: Kim Shaw, Case Reserve. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 

.1991 CY YOUNG AWARD VOTING
American League BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Named Jerry 
·.·. <.AMERICAN LE$GUI· 
Narron manager, and Steve Luebber 
pitching coach, of Rochester ol the International League. Named Don Buford 
PLAYER

manager of Hagerstown of the Eastern League. Signed Eric Hetzel, pitcher, and Todd Pratt. catcher. Purchased the contracts of Riehle Lewis. pitcher, and Ricky Gutierrez. 
e Roger Clemens, BOS 
infielder, from Rochester of the Amerlcan Assoication; Mike Oqulst, pitcher, and Manny Alexander, Infielder, from Hagerstown of the Eastern League; and 
• Scott Erickson, MINBrad Pennington, pitcher, from Frederidt of the Carolina League. Waived Jeff Robinson, and Brian DuBois, pitchers, for the purpose If giving them their uncondMional release. 
e Jim Abbott, CAL 
NEW YORK YANKEES-Named Ron Hassey advance scout. South Atlantic League 
CHARLESTON RAINBOWS-Named 
• Jack Morris, MINDouglas Brei director of marketing. BASKETBALL National B11ketball Aeaocladon 
NEW JERSEY NETS-Re-signed Dave 
e Bryan Harvey, CAL
Feitl, center. 

SEAffiE SUPERSONICS-Activated Quintin Dailey, guard, from lhe Injured list. Placed Shawn Kemp, forward, on the 
e Mark Langston, CAL
injured list. 

Continental Baaketball Aaaocladon 
BAKERSFIELD JAMMERS-Signed Antoine Nance. forward. Released Levy 
• Kevin Tapani, MINMiddlebrooks, forward. Traded Kenny Travis, guard, to the Abany Patroons for Kelvin Upshaw, guard. FOOTBALL 
-Bill Gullickson, DET 
National Football league 

CINCINNATI BENGALs-Piaced Paul Jetton, offensive lineman, on injured reserve. 
Jack McDowell, CHI
CLEVELAND BROWNS-Waived Joe King, defensive back. Signed Randy 
\Baldwin, running back. Placed Anthony Blaylock, cornerback, on injured reserve. 
e Duane Ward, TOR
HOUSTON OILERs-Placed Lee WiPiams, defensive lineman, on the practice squad. 
LOS ANGELES RAMS-Placed BIA Hawkins, defensive end, on lnjuned reserve. Waived Chri& Pike, defensive tackle. Signed David Rocker, defensive tale, from the Houston practice squad, and placed him on the active roster. Signed Tom Gibson, defensive lineman. 
NEW YORK JET~Waived John Galvin, linebacker. Placed Freeman McNeil, 
Bob Welch, OAK
running back, on the practice squad. 

PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Placed Ben Smith, cornerback, on injured reserve. Signed Bruce Plummer, defensive back. 
Frank Viola, MIN 

PHOENIX CARDINAL~Waived Chris Oldham, cornerback, and Scott Evans, llnebadter. Signed Jed( Jones, linebadter. 
SAN DIEGO CHARGERS-Signed Mark 
e 

Roger Clemens, BOS 
Walczak. tight end. Signed Charles Arbudtle, tight end, to the practice squad. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
(i)Willie Hernandez, DET 
HARTFORD WHALER~Traded Kevin Dineen, right wing, to the PhUadelphia Flyers for Murray Craven, 1e1t wing, and an 
e

Pete Vuckovich, MIL
undisclosed 1992 draft pick. Traded Lee Norwood, defenseman. to the St. Louis Blues lor an undisclosed 1993 draft pick. Assigned Paul Cyr, left wing, to Springfield of the American Hodtev Leaaue. 

1990 1989 1988 1987 1986 1985 1984 1983 1982 1981 

AP BASKETBALL TOP 25 
The Top Tw.~ty Five By Associated Press 
The Top Twenty Five teams In the Associated Press' 
preseason colege baskelball poll, with first-place votes In 
parentheses, 1990-91 record, total points based on 25 
points for a first place vote through one polrt for a 25th 

place vote and last season's final ranking: 11110 1113 Rec:. Pta. Next me 
Record Pis Pvs 1. (1) Florida State (20) 
1. Dl.fle (49) 32-7 1,606 6 2. (2) Washington (4) 2. Indiana ( 11) 29-5 1,533 3 
3. (3) Miami (1]3. Arkansas (3) 34·3 1,390 2 4. (4) Michigan4. Kentucll y 22-6 1,278 9 5. (6) Florida5. Arizona 26-7 1,276 8 

6. 
LSU (1) 20-10 1,171 22 6. (9) Cal~omia 

7. 
Ohio St. 27-4 1,158 5 2 7, (7) Alabama 

8. 
North Carolina 29-6 1,135 4 8. (8) Penn State 

9. 
Seton Hal (1) 25-9 1,096 13 9. (10) Iowa 10. St. Jo!vl's 23-9 1.on 20 


(13) TervMeeee 11. UCLA 23-9 1,048 16 
11.. (11) Nebraska12. Kansas 27-8 889 12 
12. (5) Notre Dame
13. Oklahoma St 24-8 864 14 13. (12) TMasA&M
14. Utah »4 684 10 15. Connedlcut 20-11 628 14, (14) Clemson 16. Georgetown 1~13 532 15. (17) Syracuse 
17. Alabama 23-10 483 19 16. {15) East Carolina 
3
18. DePaul 20-9 364 24 17. {16) Colorado 
19. Oklahorra 20-15 341 
18. (19) Ohio State 20. Michigan 14-15 329 19. (20) Oklahoma
21. Iowa 21·11 322 20. (21) Baylor
22. WIIM Forest 1~11 319 
23. 
Georgia Tech 17-13 258 21. (-) Virginia 

24. 
Arizona St. 20-10 247 22. (18) N.C. Stale 25. Louisville 14·16 103 23. (-) Stanford 

Other receiving votes: Texas 88, Virginia 87, 24. (-) IUinois Syracuse 82, Mernphill Sl. 72, Florida St. 70, UNLV 64 

25. 
(-) Brigham Young Missouri 55, Villanova 40, Houston 39, Pepperdine 39.' 


Michigan St. 34, Richmond 34, New Orleans 29, Xavier, Ohio 21, Kent 17, Illinois 16, Southern Cal14, Stanford 


1ST 2ND 3RD TOTAL 21 4 2 119 3 12 5 56 5 11 26 3 2 17 3 1 10 2 1 7 1 1 6 5 5 1 3 1 3 
Bret Saberhagen, KC ~ 
Roger Clemens, BOS e 
Bret Saberhagen, KC 
~ 
LaMarr Hoyt, CHI ~
... 
Rollie Fingers, MIL e 
10-0 
9-0 
8-0 8·1 8·1 8-1 8-1 S-2 8·1 6-2 7-1-1 8-2 6-1 6-1·1 7-2 S-1 6-2-1 7·2 7-2 7-2 7-2·1 7-2 6-3 6-3 7-3 
620 
592 
576 551 523 
4n 
468 442 422 
399 372 353 
330 
289 284 
264 
248 
204 
194 149 123 
62 
55 
47 
35 
11116 \IS. Miami 11/16 at Oregon State 11/16 at Florida State 11116 at Illinois 11/16 vs. Kentucky 11/16 vs. Arizona State 11/16 at Memphis State 11/16 vs. Notre Dame 11116 at Northwestern 11116 vs. M iss issippi 11/16 vs. Iowa State 11/16 at Penn State 11/16 vs. Arkansas 11/16 vs. Maryland 11116 vs. Boston College 11/16 at Virginia Tech 11/16 vs. Kansas 11116 vs. Indiana 11116 vs. Oklahoma State 11/16 vs. Texas Tech 11123 vs. Virginia Tech 11116at Duke I 1116 at Washington State 11116 vs. Michigan 11/16 at San Diego State 

Others r~ving votes: Bowling Green 22, Georgia 20, UCLA 20, Air14, Georgia 12, Rice 12, Temple 12, N. Carolina St. 11, Massachusens 10, Penn St. 10, Brigham Young 9, 
Force 10, Fresno State 10, Tulsa 10, San Diego State 5, Indiana 4, Nebraska 9, Notre Dame I, Princeton 8, South Arkansas 3, TCU 3, Cornell 2. Kansas Stale 2, LSU 2, Houston 1, Carolina 8, Tulane 8, Wyoming 8, E. Tennessee St. 6, Nevada 1, Pittsbufvh 1. 
Southern Miss. 6, Boston College 5, Fre&no St. 5, 
Bokllndlcatn NO opponentLouisiana Tech 5, Murray Sl. 5, South Alabama 5, Will.­Green Bay 5, Tennessee 4, N.C. Charlotte 2, New 
Schools participating: Alabama. Arizona State, BaH State, Brigham
Mexico St. 2, Cincinnati 1, Mississippi Sl. 1, 5 
Young, Colorado, Columbia, Cornell, Duke, Indiana, Kansas, Miami.
Washington Sl. 1. Michigan, Nebraska, North Carolina State. Notre Dame, Oregon, Oregon State, Penn State, Purdue, Southern Cal, Syracuse, Texas, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin. 

Thursday, November 14, 1991 The Observer page 15 
...

Clemens wins third AL Cy Young 
NEW YORK (AP) -Roger ERA for the World Series losing two October starts. Clemens, the Boston Red Sox champion Minnesota Twins. got He led the majors with 271 1­right-hander who led the three firsts, 1 2 seconds and five 3 innings pitched, won the AL league in ERA and strikeouts, thirds. ERA title for the third time in won his third American League Jim Abbott of the California six years and won his second Cy Young Award on Wednesday. Angels, 18-11 with a 2.89 ERA, league strikeout title. He had 13 
Clemens, who also won in was third, with five seconds complete games, his most since 1986 and 1987, got 21 first­and 11 thirds for 26 points. 1988, and his four shutouts place votes, four seconds and Jack Morris of the Twins was increased his total to 29. three thirds in balloting by the fourth with 17 points and Bryan Still, he had better statistics in Baseball Writers Association of Harvey of the Angels was fifth 1990, when he was 21 -6 with a America. His 119 points easily with 10 points. 1. 93 ERA but lost the Cy Young beat Minnesota's Scott For Clemens, 1991 ended to Oakland's Bob Welch, who Erickson, who had 56 points. much differently from 1990, won 27 games. 
Clemens, 18-10 this year with when he was ejected in Game 4 a 2.62 ERA and 241 strikeouts, of the AL playoffs against Clemens is the first AL Cy became the fifth three-time Cy Oakland after getting into a Young winner not to win at Young winner. Only Jim Palmer verbal altercation with umpire least 20 games since Pete {1 973-75-76) had done it previ­Terry Cooney and bumping um­Vuckovich of Milwaukee in ously in the AL. Steve Carlton pire Jim Evans. This time, 1982 (18-6). He is the first with won four NL Cy Youngs and Boston faded in the stretch as 10 or more losses since LaMarr Tom Seaver three. Toronto won the AL East title. Hoyt of the Chicago White Sox 
Sandy Koufax is the only one Clemens started fast, winning in 1983 (24-10). to win three Cy Youngs when his first six decisions, but had a 
AP File Photo the award covered pitchers in 3-5 slump after that and was Clemens got a $100,000 bonus 
Boston's Roger Clemens, shown here facing Cleveland, won his third both leagues. 11-5 at the All-Star break. He added to his $2.5 million salary 
Cy Young Award. He is one of only five to win it three times or more. Erickson, 20-8 with a 3.43 was 4-0 in September before 
Miami stands in way of Weldon's perfect season 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -"That's just the brea:ks," says don't have big stats but the feated. He hasn't lost a game." There are three unbeaten Weldon, who played sparingly main idea is to win and we've Although he and his team­streaks on the line when top­in last year's 31-22 loss in been winning. I'd be a lot hap­mates have been...looking for­ranked Florida State meets No. Miami, although he threw a late pier with a national champi­ward to the Miami game for 2 Miami on Saturday -Florida touchdown pass...You take onship than a Heisman." ' several weeks, Weldon said the State's, Miami's and Casey away about three plays from That's what may be on the line opponent won't make much dif­Weldon's. those games and the series is Saturday and the revenge factor ference in his preparation. 
Since Weldon became Florida even. It's tough to figure out." is there -losses to Miami in State's starting quarterback The 22-year-old Weldon, who 1987 and 1988 may have cost ·Tn try and take what they midway through last season, grew up in Tallahassee and Florida State a national give me and play like I always the Seminoles are 16-0, 15-0 played his high school ball at a championship. play whether it's Miami or with Weldon starting. private Baptist school, must get Coach Bobby Bowden says whoever," said Weldon. "I just 
This week he goes against his team past Miami, No. 5 Weldon is one of the most ver­want to be smart with the foot­Miami, a team he's watched Florida and then a bowl oppo­satile, mobile quarterbacks he's ball and not make a mistake from the sidelines in the past. nent to complete an undefeated ever coached. that hurts the team. The second-ranked Hurricanes, career as a starter. Also at "In baseball terms, if he were "You've got to raise it up an­also unbeaten his year, have stake may be a Heisman Trophy a pitcher, you'd say he's got all other level and I think we will," Weldon ranks second in TD won five of their last six against -he's the main competition to the pitches," Bowden said. added Weldon, fourth in the na­passes at Florida State, a dozen Florida State, with Weldon Michigan's Desmond Howard. Added Miami coach Dennis tion in passing efficiency. behind career leader Gary Huff, spending most of his time on "I feel like I belong right there Erickson: "The bottom line on But the biggest test of his ca­who also threw for a school­the bench. with Desmond," he says. "I Casey Weldon -he's unde-reer awaits Saturday. record 6,378 yards. 
CLOSED COY,Eg§ 
Magic may play in Barcelona 
ENGL 471 01 3885 PHIL 246 01 2135 ACCT 232 05 0584 ENGL 472Z 01 3886 PHIL 248 01 3719 
(AP)-Magic Johnson, still hopes the American star can ACCT 473 01 0601 ENGL 473 01 3887 PHIL 261 01 2139 
anxious to play in the play.
ACCT 473 02 2812 ENGL 479 01 3888 PHIL 265 01 0030 
Olympics despite testing .. If he decides to come,
AERO 441L 01 0614 ENGL 483 01 3044 PHYS 210 01 3793 
positive for the virus that people will enthusiastically
AERO 441L 02 0615 ENGL 490'Z 01 3890 PLS 462 05 2320 
causes AIDS, received support receive him," Abad said.
AFAM 389 01 3446 ENGL 493A 01 3891 PSY 373 01 2339 
AFAM 420 01 3447 ENGL 493C 01 2979 PSY 462 01 0157 
Wednesday from the chief ..More, perhaps, than any AFAM 454 01 2997 ENGL 4978 01 0705 RLST 213 15 9515 
medical officer of the Summer hero in sports."ANTH 324 01 3434 ENGL 512 01 2719 RLST 240 21 9521 
Games. Johnson embraced 
ANTH 328 01 0212 ENGL 562 01 3897 RLST 261 35 9535 
Prince Alexandre de Merode, Barcelona's Olympic
ANTH 365 01 2901 ENGL 585 01 3899 RLST 312 43 9543 
head of the International movement. He visited the city
ANTH 389 01 3438 FIN 360 01 1417 RLST 312 45 9545 
ANTH 431 01 3442 FIN 231 07 1412 soc 346 01 3027 
Olympic Committee's Medical twice in the last 12 months, ANTH 454 01 2912 FIN 231 06 1408 soc 419 01 3340 
Commission, said the IOC posing for photographs with ARHI 169 01 0735 FIN 360 03 1419 soc 420 01 3542 
"doesn't have any rules" that Olympic construction workers, 
ARHI 462 01 3118 FIN 360 06 1423 soc 421 01 3545 
would ban Johnson from the then sinking the first basket in 
ARST 1345 01 0754 FIN 231 02 1405 soc 324 01 3544 
Barcelona Games next year. the Palau Sant Jordi arena. In
ARST 242S 01 0762 FIN 475 01 1440 STV 453 01 3566 
Asked whether Johnson would July, Johnson returned and BA 490 07 3798 FIN 361 06. 1430 THEO 235 01 2653 
ARST 2465 01 2922 FIN 476 01 2853 THEO 235 02 1820 
be welcome, de Merode said drew a crowd of 12,000 at a BA 490 06 0850 GE 410 01 3043 THEO 262 01 0189 
"certainly." free clinic. Television ads 
BA 490 05 0849 GOVT 343T 03 3588 THEO 265 01 2661 
:,> 
Johnson's dramatic featuring Magic and Cobi, the
GOVT 449 01 2988

BA 490 04 0848 
disclosure last week that he Olympic mascot, recently
GOVT 459 01 2906

BA 490 01 0845 
was retiring from the NBA concluded a nine-month run.
BA 391 01 0264 GSC 4725 01 3265 
BA 391 03 2735 GSC 346 01 3028 
because he had tested positive Johnson is also midway
COURSES ADDEDGSC 446 01 3772

BA 391 02 2736 
for the HIV virus, continued to through a three-year, $3 mil­
0969 GSC 493A 01 3769 

produce reaction. lion endorsement deal with
CAPP 243 01 EE S99R 23 -#4042 Thesis Di.rectioo; var. cr, hrs. 
CLAS 360 01 3233 GSC 242 01 3773 
EE 699R 16 · #4043 Research &. Di~o;ertation: "~r 1-r hrs 
-Converse and Spalding, Campofrio, the Spanish meat­
CLAS 427 01 3427 GSC 4238 01 3766 
two sporting goods companies packing giant and an Olympic
CLAS 442 01 1084 HIST 342A 01 3480 
COTH 435 01 3978 HIST 348A 01 3482 
that have endorsement deals sponsor. It is the most
COURSE CQANGES 

with Johnson, are lucrative promotional deal for ECON 451 01 1363 HIST 466A 01 3474 
ECON 421 01 1168 HIST 414A 01 3476 
CHEG 698 01-#3671 change time to WF 02:20-03:35 
restructuring their campaigns any Olympics-related athlete. 
IIPS 475 01 3398

ECON 498 01 1173 
CHEM 243 01 -#1053 change days/time to MWF 08:00 -08:50 
to deal with the illness. Converse Inc. said it will con­
LAW 695 03 1690

ENGL 300A 01 3851 MATH 12ST 01 -#0085 change time to H 11:30-12:20 
-Johnson's announcement tinue using Johnson in
LAW 695 04 1691

ENGL 300C 01 3853 MATH 662 OJ -10225 change time to MWF 10:10-11:00 
had a mixed effect on the sale sneaker advertisements and
LAW 631G 01 1671

ENGL 3148 01 4022 M1 6Z1 01-#3036 change day/time toM 01:15-03:45 ENGL 318B 01 3855 
LAW 631F 01 1670 

of Magic memorabilia. will form a public service
MSE 225 01 -#1988 maximum should be 220 ENGL 3198 01 1364 LAW 695 05 1692 SOC S93L 01 -13556 change credit hours to 1 
Johnson had been an campaign to support AIDS ENGL 325 01 3856 MARl< 381 01 1704 THEO 621 01-#3037 change day/time toM 01:15-03:45 
enthusiastic booster for the education and research. 
ENGL 328A 01 0012 MGT 231 03 1859 
1992 Games in which NBA Johnson has been associated
ENGL 333 01 3857 MGT 231 02 1858 
players will participate for the with Converse since 1979. 
ENGL 340T 01 3858 MGT 231 05 1861 
~~~E l'IJAI .,.WIL!t-R§OJ?~N lU: 7_:.Q.Q...!'..:JL· 
first time. And the feelings Gib Ford, president of the
ENGL 340T 02 3859 MGT 231 04 1860 (IT MAY BE ONLY ONE OPENING)ENGL 340T 03 3860 MGT 231 06 1862 
were reciprocal. company, said Johnson will ENGL 340T 04 3861 MGT 231 01 1856 
"I think in the world of bas­continue to appear in
ANTH 324 01 3434
ENGL 340T 05 3862 MGT 488 01 3801 
ARHI 169 01 0735 
ketball, there is no player as Converse product ads, and the
ENGL 403 01 3867 MI 398 01 3392 BA 490 04 0848 
important as Magic Johnson," company will also do a
ENGL 414B 01 3870 MI 309 01 2995 
BA 490 01 0845 
said Josep Maria Alberich, commercial with Johnson and
ENGL 415 01 3152 MI 333 01 ~~no ENGL 300A 01 3851 ENGL 415Z 01 3871 MSA 545 01 3803 
basketball director for with Boston Celtics star Larry Bird
ENGL 325 01 3856 ENGL 416A 01 3872 MSA 553 01 3804 
the Barcelona Olympic in support of the U.S. Olympic
ENGL 328A 01 0012 ENGL 41GB 01 3873 MSA 548 01 3805 
Organizing Committee (COOB}. basketball team. Converse will
ENGL 340T 02 3859 
ENGL 416C 01 3874 MUS 225 01 0421) 
GE 410 01 3043 
..It would be hard to find also donate $100,000 to the
ENGL 420A 01 3875 MUS 220 02 20l7 
MGT 231 02 1858 
anybody more popular than Magic Johnson Foundation,
ENGL 422 01 3876 MUS 220 01 2016 
MUS 220 02 2017 
him. Magic's image is so well­which is in the process of
ENGL 426B 01 3256 MUS 222 01 0105 
PHIL 261 01 2139
ENGL 428B 01 3878 MUS 220 03 2018 
known here and we've all being established. 
PHIL 265 01 0030
ENGL 434 01 3880 MUS 226 01 2024 
been counting the days until Jack Lacey, general manager
soc 421 01 3545
ENGL 440A 01 1377 PHIL 241 02 4027 
he would arrive." of Spalding's leisure products
ENGL 451A 01 3882 PHIL 244 01 0318 
Josep M. Abad, COOB's chief division, said Johnson ..is
ENGL 453 01 3883 PHIL 246 05 3718 
executive officer who keeps a going to continue to be a part
ENGL 463Z 01 3884 PHIL 246 02 2136 basketball autographed by of this family for as long as he 
Johnson in his office, still wants to be." 



PITTSBURGH (AP) -Bobby Bonilla may be packing his bags for another town, but the
I' Pittsburgh Pirates are hoping that Steve Buechele. Mike LaValliere and Bob Walk will still make their home at Three Rivers Stadium. Bonilla's agent, Dennis Gilbert, Tuesday rejected the Pirates' offer to pay Bonilla . $18.5 million over four years with a $1 million signing bonus and a fifth-year option at $4 million. "We reject it, period." Gilbert told the Pittsburgh Post­Gazette. "There's nothing to think about.... We would have accepted it during the season, with a couple of language changes." The Pirates not only have made a megaoffer to Bonilla, they've also offered contracts to Buechele, LaValliere and Walk, three of their other five free agents. 
Tuesday was the first day that teams could make offers to free agents who played elsewhere last season. The Pirates aren't expected to pursue any other players until they learn the fate of their own free agents. 


''We're hopeful of signing a couple of our own free agents," general manager Larry Doughty said. "We'd like to sign a couple of our horses." 
Doughty also confirmed he has opened initial negotiations with Barry Bonds' agent, Rod Wright, on a multiyear contract. Borids can become a free agent after the 1992 season. 

page 16 The Observer 
Pirates feel the sting of free agency 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Kevin Stevens completed a hat trick with a goal at 3:25 of overtime as the Pittsburgh Penguins blew three two-goal leads before beating the Edmonton Oilers 5-4 on Wednesday night. 
Stevens, who scored twice in the first nine minutes of the game, was seated on the ice when he tipped Paul Coffey's shot from the lower left circle behind Bill Hanford to give Pittsburgh only its third victory

j i 
in nine home games this sea­

. I 
son.

I 
Pittsburgh led 2-0, 3-1 and

I 

was ahead 4-2 before David Shaw and Joe Murphy forced the overtime by scoring 45 sec­onds apart in the last 1:51 of regulation. 
Stevens scored twice in the first nine minutes of the game for Pittsburgh, now 3-4-2 at

,J ) ! 


Bonds said last month he probably wouldn't return to the Pirates if they didn't re-sign Bonilla, but has since backed off such threats. 
The Pirates are lukewarm to re-signing pitcher Bob Kipper and utility infielder Curtis Wilkerson and may offer them contracts only if they don't sign elsewhere. 
LaValliere, the left-handed hitting catcher who has hit .298 or higher two of the last three seasons, was offered a two-year deal plus an option for a third year. 
"At this time, that's unaccept­able," said LaValliere. who wants a three-year deal. 
The Pirates don't have a mi­nor-league catcher ready to platoon with the right-handed hitting Don Slaught, so they will likely offer La Valliere a three­year deal rather than risk losing him. 
"Spanky's not going any­where," manager Jim Leyland said. 
The Pirates could have re­tained Walk by offering him salary arbitration but declined, thereby alloWing him to become a free agent. 
They may lose that gamble ­and Walk -because the Cincinnati Reds, Boston Red Sox and Philadelphia Phillies are among the teams seeking starting pitching. 
Walk was 9-2 last season and 16-7 the last two seasons, but the Pirates are concerned about his frequent.injuries. Walk. who will be 35 on Nov. 26, was on 
Penguins hold off Oilers, 5-4 
the Civic Arena. 

Capitals 5, Rangers 3 
NEW YORK (AP) -Kevin Hatcher's goal with 5:53 re­maining put Washington ahead to stay as the Capitals beat the Rangers in a battle between the. two top teams in the Patrick Division. 
Washington trailed 3-2 before Peter Bondra tied the game at 7:40 with his 11th of the season. Hatcher took Dino Ciccarelli's pass and slid the puck past Vanbiesbrouck for the game-winner and Dmitri Khristich scored into an empty net with 53 seconds left. 
Washington increased its lead over the second-place Rangers to three points. The Capitals are 8-0-0 in Patrick Division games this season. 


I'
'I
II 
LOST .. •

!I 
I: 
GREED • • • 

ji 
I 
1e National Shakspeare 
C:n;~::y ·• MACBETH 
November 18-19 8:10p.m. Washin~ton llnll Notre Dame UniYcrsit~· Students $B.00 Non-StlJ(Ienl~ S 1 0.00 Pur.,hn••· Ti•·l....t• "' l.al-'urtun•· """ ou;.,,. 

the disabled list for 66 days with groin and hamstring in­juries last season. 
The Pirates are expected to make a substantial offer to Walk -he made $850,000 last season-that will b~ top-heavy with incentive clauses for in­nings pitched and roster time. 
However, Doughty hasn't hinted whether the Pirates will enter a bidding war for Walk, the senior Pirate and one of just two remaining players from Leyland's first team in 1986. 
They also must decide whether to enter the bidding for Buechele, the third baseman they acquired from the Texas Rangers Aug. 30. 
Buechele had a career year, hitting .262 with 22 homers and 85 RBis, and had four more homers and 15 fewer RBis than Bonilla. It was the first time in seven major league seasons he drove in more than 59 runs. 
Buechele's agent, Alan Meersand, reportedly wants a four-year deal worth about $12 million. 
Meanwhile, Doughty also has confirmed the Pirates made a substantial offer to Bonilla last weekend. He initially declined Monday to confirm the offer, which The Associated Press learned is worth $18.5 million over four years, plus a club op­tion for a fifth year at $4 mil­lion. 
"We did make Bobby a sub­stantial offer," Doughty said. 
The bid, by far the highest in the Pirates' history. was their last before other teams could 
Thursday, November 14, 1991 


AP File Photo The Pittsburgh Pirates may lose several key players, including All-Star Bobby Bonilla, shown above sliding into home, to free agency. 
negotiate with Bonilla. Doughty price hikes for 1992. wouldn't say if the Pirates will The Bonilla offer, Andy Van make another offer once other Slyke's $12.65 million contract teams begin bidding. extension and Zane Smith's 
However, the substantial offer $10.4 million deal could con­to Bonilla could prove valuable vince ticket buyers they are se­to the Pirates in the near future rious about trying to keep a when they announce ticket winning team intact. 
Illinois needs perfection to upset Michigan 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP) -The strong defense and potent of­fense that the Fighting lllini showed during a victory at Purdue last week must be pre­sent this week when Illinois meets Michigan, coach John Mackovic says. 
The Illini, ranked 25th, saw their defense hold Purdue to just 63 yards passing. 
Illinois (6-3) plays host to Michigan on Saturday. 
"I thought we were able to put everything together against Purdue," Mackovic said Tuesday. "Our defense con­trolled a good part of the game. We'll need all of that this week against Michigan." 
The offense got on track, with quarterback Jason Verduzco completing 20 of 25 passes for 255 yards and three touch­downs. Illinois racked up 447 put in conference play on the way to a 41-14 victory. 
Illinois most likely will have to run and pass effectively to beat Michigan, 8-1 overall and 6-0 in the Big Ten. The No. 4-ranked Wolverines can lock up a Rose Bowl bid with a win over Illinois or a victory on Nov. 23 against Ohio State. 
"From their standpoint, they know they only have to win one out of two games," Mackovic said. "This is an outstanding team. They deserve their rank­ing and they've pretty well han­dled every team they've played." 
Mackovic said Tuesday he ex­pects his team to accept a bowl invitation on Sunday, the first day invitations can be extended. There had been speculation that Illinois might receive a bowl bid contingent on a victory 
But Mackovic said that is not the case. He said he expects most of the bowls, including the one Illinois will play in, to be parceled out Sunday. 
"We're not in any position where somebody has said, 'If you win this game or that game, you can go to this bowl game,"' Mackovic said during his weekly news conference. 
"The Peach Bowl, we've talked with them and they gave us three or four scenarios. There, we're not the No. 1 scenario." 
Illinois improved moved to 4-2 in the Big Ten with Saturday's victory. 
Mackovic said the big day was partly due to the weather. A loss at Northwestern was played in a freezing rain and a home win over Wisconsin was played in a stiff wind and a 


Co-Ree Teams-2 Men & 2 Women Open To All Undergrads & Grads Takes Place At The Stadium Range Enter Gate 14 
·-~~i~~%i~~1~t~
··.~--:.·~-•"·'• .. ,_,:~·~· ~ .•~;¥...." 
Tuesday, November 19 4:30 -6:00 PM Wednesday, November 20 4:00-6:00PM 
1st Place Team Wins Dinner At Kentucky Fried Chicken 

Thursday, November 14, 1991 
The Observer page 17 
Though lost in shuffle, Irish volleyball seeks postseason bid 
With so many teams having --------­
successful seasons this year at Notre Dame, it is possible for one to get lost in the shuffie at times. 
But despite being out of the spotlight for much of the sea­son, the Notre Dame volleyball team has quietly fashioned a fine campaign. Irish Items 
With six matches remaining, the Irish are 17-7 and, with--------­the MCC regular season championship in hand, head to Indianapolis this weekend for the conference tournament. "I'm happy for the coverage the other sports are receiving, but I think we're just as deserving," explained first-year coach Debbie Brown. Since a mid-season funk in which Notre Dame lost five of six matches, dropping its record to 7-6, the team has won 10 of its last 11, including seven in a row-its longest winning streak since the 1988 season. Incidently, that 1988 squad was the only Notre Dame team to make it to the NCAA tournament. And with its current success, the Irish have revived hopes of returning to the 32-team tourney this December. "We're definitely in a position to be considered for 
an NCAA bid," Brown said. "With six matches left, it's important for us to win them all if we want to stay in consideration." 
Definitely a switch from three weeks ago, when Brown was telling her players to put the NCAA's behind them after a four-game loss to nationally­ranked Illinois. But seven straight wins-including victories over then 20th-ranked Louisville and Bowling Green-has that kind of effect on a team. 
The Irish (17 -7) have moved into a tie for seventh with the Falcons and Wisconsin in the NCAA's Mideast 
Region, putting them  back in  the  hunt for  a  
tournament berth.  
According  to  Donna  Noonan,  a  Director  of  

Championships for the NCAA, the regional selection committees look at the following criteria when considering at-large teams (the MCC does not receive an automatic bid): 
•won-loss record 
•results against regionally and/or nationally ranked teams 
•results 
against teams already in the tournament 

•strength 
of schedule 


One thing working against the Irish is that of the 32 teams that make the NCAA's, 16 receive automatic bids. In the Mideast Region alone, six conferences-the Atlantic 10, Big East, Big Eight. Big Ten, Gateway, and MAC-get their champions into the tourney. 
Last year, nine teams from the Mideast made the NCAA's. Assuming the same number go from the region this season, this means that Notre Dame will be fighting against teams like Illinois (15-7), Penn State (21-3) and Wisconsin (17-8) from the Big Ten, Miami of Ohio (19-8) from the MAC and DePaul (28-6) from the North Star for an at-large bid. The Irish have already lost to the lllini, Redskins and Blue Demons earlier this year. 
However on the positive side, Notre Dame has won five games against ranked opponents, including a victory over Ohio State (12th in the nation) and two wins over Louisville (sixth in the South Region). 
Notre Dame's schedule the rest of the season includes the MCC tourney this weekend and matches against Hofstra (13th-ranked in the Mideast Region) and Texas-Arlington, a 1990 NCAA participant. 
According to Noonan, if the selection committee is deciding between two closely-matched teams, late­season performance becomes a factor in determining which team gets a bid. So if the Irish should win their remaining matches, their 23-7 record and season­ending 13-match win streak should merit strong consideration. 
All of which gives the Irish cause to hope. 
"We have to maintain our focus and confidence," Brown said. "We play good teams the rest of the way, but I truly believe that we're better than they are." 
Should the NCAA not come calling, however, Notre Dame would not be completely shut out of postseason competition. 
An MCC tournament title would qualify the Irish for the third-annual National Invitational Volleyball Competition, which will be hosted this year by Wright State University. 
The 20-team affair will take place December 5-7 in Dayton, Ohio. Like the NIT in men's and women's basketball, the NIVC is a chance for teams left out of the big show to receive some reward for a job well done. 
And while Brown hopes the Irish aren't one of those teams, the NIVC wouldn't be the end of the world, either. 
"We're not looking at it as second-best," she said. "We'll go with the intention of winning the tournament. When you're so close to making it on the national level, you have to take advantage of every 
chance you get." 

SPORlS BRIEFS 
•Football equipment return will be this Wednesday and Thursday from 6 to 9 each night. Bring equipment and checkout slips to gate nine of the stadium. Remember, which ever team brings back their equipment first gets first pick next 
year. 
•Ski 
team/club will have a meeting tonight at7 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland . Remaining payment is due for the trip. Also, sign-up and payment for team tryouts will be taken. Questions, call Woodsy at 277-7089. 

•The 
water polo club will be holding elections for club treasurer at the beginning of practice on Thursday, November 


14. Attendance is mandatory. 
•The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight in the basement of Farley at 7 p.m. Bring a friend. For information on FCA. call Mark Zoia at 283-1586. 
C:Jf2UST.M.91S S5UJE 
JACC VARSITY SHOP 
JACC FIELDHOUSE Enter Gate 3 
November 15 thru Dec 21st 
Weekdays 3-6 pm Sat 9-3 pm 

Closed Sundays Sale on our re ular hi h ualit 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre presents: 
National Players 
America's longest 
running classical 
touring company 


BYWILLIAM GIBSON 
Wednesday, November 13 8:10p.m. Thursday, November 14 8:10p.m. Friday, November 15 8:10p.m. Saturday, November 16 8:10p.m. Sunday, November 17 3:10p.m. 
Reserved seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available for \Vednesday, Thursday and Sunday perfor­mances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders call239-8128. 
WASHINGTON HALL 

Steinberg 
continued from page 20 
the Crescent Moon Foundation to aid the underprivileged in the Houston area, and former San Diego Charger placekicker Rolf Benirschke organized "Kicks for Critters," a fundraiser for endangered species at the San Diego Zoo. 
Similarly, Jim Harbaugh set up a scholarship at the University of Michigan, and for 
• every Chicago Bears victory do­nates money to an orphanage. Colts' linebacker Duane Bickett funded a program resembling the Crescent Moon foundation which aids mentally handi­capped children. 
"I believe an athlete has a certain obligation to make this world a nicer place," said Steinberg. "There are so many externals in an athlete's life, but all that seems to fade away when careers end." 
He also hopes that the chari­table work of the athletes he represents will spur greater giving from people of all walks oflife. 
"Athletes trigger imitative behavior," said Steinberg. "The nature of the AP wire is that every incident of drunken driv­ing and drugs is trotted out for the whole world to see. But Derrick Thomas of the Kansas City Chiefs has testified in Congress for literacy programs, and established a literacy program called 'First and Long.' Now there are kids who will read because they see that you can be macho and read. 
"I believe that it is a contin­
gency of birth to be born into a 
free country with democratic 
traditions and a high standard 
of living. It's not something we 
earned. So to give back is the 
least we can do. It's difficult to 
sit there and watch a world 
where there are tremendous 
troubles. In my own life, I've set 
up schools, endowed rooms, 
and everybody can do that." 
For his efforts, Steinberg has been honored by the March of Dimes, the Association of Representatives of Professional Athletes, the City of Los Angeles and the West Coast Father's Day Council. He has also re­ceived the Cyril Magnin Humanitarian Award. 
Yet Steinberg is also aware of the fact that despite all the charity, many people blame high salaries, such as those of his clients, for driving sports entertainment out of the aver­age person's price range. 
Steinberg disagrees. 
"With my first client and with another after that, our players have offered to take a cut in their packages to the extend that their team owners would cut ticket prices, said Steinberg. "One owner said, 'Son, ticket prices are a func­tion of supply and demand. We'll cut if we have to and raise them if we can.' 
"People do get angry at ath­letic salaries, and I think it's wrong to complain when you're 'only' making $1.2 million and you want $1.4 million. Complaints like that are insen­sitive to the average guy. But I think that athletes deserve the money they are making. This 
year, each NFL team will get 
$30 million from the national 
TV contracts alone. 
"People think of sports as a game," continued Steinberg, "but Kenny Easley had to retire with a degenerative kidney dis­ease. Kurt Marsh and Neil Lomax also had to retire early because of debilitating ill­nesses. These are three young men who, at age 30, face a life of disability from just a few years of playing football. There is a high risk of injury." 
Steinberg also pointed out that very few people voice com­plaints about the gargantuan money made by entertainers such as Madonna and Michael Jackson. 
"This is the entertainment business," Steinberg said. "I think that athletes have a re­sponsibility to think about ticket prices, but at the same time, they are the major attraction." 
Finally, Steinberg also stands up for the right of rookies, who are not yet proven in play, and often do not mature for several years, to command sizable con­tracts. 
"Let's suppose that you are the first pick in a journalist's draft," said Steinberg. "And they tell yoL that after you graduate, your rights have been purchased by a newspaper in Ogaloosa, La., and you must cover geriatric health facilities. So if you want to write about sports or live in another city, that's too bad. To do that is to treat the athlete like their only concern is money. They may care about location, whether they will start, and playing for a winning team." 
Wrestling team showing promise as season nears 
By BRIAN DINEEN 
Sports Writer 
As the winter months ap­proach, high aspirations sur­round the 1991-92 version of the Notre Dame wrestling team. 
Coming o-ff a 4~8-1 record last year. the Irish have some young wrestlers and an im­proved attitude towards train­ing for the upcoming season. 
"Last year was just a case of close, but not close enough,.. said head coach Fran McCann. "Six of our losses were deter­mined by one match and even one point. We didn't have real good balance." 
The team lost its 150 and 167 lb division wrestlers to 
graduation, but comes into the new season with many talented freshman. 
.. I like what I see in the freshmen class," said senior Marcus Gowen. "Our frrst few tournaments will give us a chance to see how they can compete against top-quality wrestlers," said Gowen, a 126 lb division wrestler. 
Coach McCann expects to start three or four freshmen. Besides these newcomers, he will be looking to returning up­perclassmen to carry the team. "Chris Jentzen worked real hard in the offseason and should have a great year. Also­
· look for Steve King and J.J. McGrew as well as heavyweight Curt Engler as the year goes on," said McCann. McGrew and King are coming off excellent performances at · the Nationals last year . 
The new and improved atti· tude surrounding the team is apparent from the training in preparation for the first tour­nament, Nov. 23, in Saint Lpuis. 
..The work atmosphere has been tremendous so far this year," said junior Steve King. ..Everyone is really optimistic. Its been the best year out of my three for practice." 
"We have a tough schedule ahead of us, but there's not a team on it we can't beat." added McCann. 

Notre Dame's Stephanie Porter credits teammates for Player of the Year award 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Writer 
There were many reasons why the Notre Dame women's soccer team compiled a 15-2-3 record, won the Midwestern Collegiate Conference champi­onship, and earned its first-ever national ranking. 


A primary reason was sophomore forward Stephanie Porter, who was honored as the 1991 MCC women's soccer player of the year, an award which is determined by a vote of the conference's coaches. 
"This award shows the suc­cess that can come from a team that works together," Porter said. "I think I got the award because of the number of goals I scored. I couldn't have scored them without my teammates; they were able to get the ball to me." 
Assistant coach Karen Stanley agreed that Porter's selection was a result of the entire team's 

i 
j effort. "Our team didn't have any big stars; everyone had their role. 
I 
If we would have lost any one player it would have made a big difference," Stanley said. "Stephanie was the person who 
I \ ~ 
ill Phonz 

continued from page 20 
"I think LaPhonso's game and my game complement each other very well," Tower said. "He is a force on the inside, and I am able to shoot the 15-16 foot jumper. Because of that a team won't be able to key on either of us." 
Tuesday, Nov. 26 
Tuesday, Dec. 3 
Thursday, Dec. 5 
Monday, Dec. 9 
Wednesday, Dec. 11 
Thursday, }an. 2 
Monday, Jan. 6 
Thursday, Jan. 9 
Saturday, Jan. 11 
Monday, }an. 13 
Saturday, Jan. 18 
Tuesday, Jan. 21 
Thursday, Jan. 23 
Monday, }an. 27 
Wednesday, Jan. 29 
Saturday, Feb. 1 
Tuesday, Feb. 4 
Sunday, Feb. 9

!I 
l Tuesday, Feb. 11 Saturday, Feb. 15
l' Tuesday, Feb. 18 Saturday, Feb. 22 Tuesday, Feb. 25 .
) ' 
Thursday, Feb. 27 Saturday, Feb. 29 

?.. 
Tuesday, Mar. 3 Saturday, Mar. 7 Monday, Mar. 9 
" The family suggests that memorial contributions be made to the American 
Heart Association." When people want to honor a loved one and fight heart disease. 

l I 
scored a lot of goals for us. She made a difference in a lot of close games." 
Porter finished the season as the MCC's leading scorer with 16 goals, including four game winners, four assists, and 36 points. These statistics were enough to set Notre Dame records for most goals and most points scored in a season. Currently, she is the Irish's sec­ond all-time leading scorer be­hind Susie Zilvitis, who finished her collegiate career with 43 goals, 26 assists, and 112 points. 
In addition to being named player of the year, Porter was also named to the All-MCC team, joining teammates Jodi Hartwig, Andrea Kurek, Alison Lester, and Michelle Lodyga. Lodyga led the MCC with a 0.54 goals against average and 11 shutouts. 
One of the things which made Porter such a dangerous part of the Irish attack this year was her style of play and the manner in which she accumu­lated her totals. 
"Stephanie scored in very subtle ways, but this made her more effective," said Stanley. "Other teams really did not no-
Overall, Ellis was pleased with his performance, but admitted he and the team still have some adjustments to make. 
"It is just a matter of getting used to a new system. Also, I think we had a little bit of the first-game jitters. We haven't played in front of this many people in a long time, especially me," Ellis jokingly commented, "But, we did a good job." 
at Indiana LOUISVILLE at Valparaiso at Boston College at Kentucky at Southern Cal at LaSalle NORTH CAROLINA at West Virginia at Virginia at Marquette MISSOURI DAYTON DEPAUL at Duke DETROIT MERCY MICHIGAN STANFORD at Syracuse MARQUETTE UCLA at Dayton LOYOLA ST.JOHN'S XAVIER at DePaul at Evansville 



T~ ~19r~n Regan 
1HEAMERICAN HEART ASSCI:IATION MEMORIAL PRCERAMe 

tice her and start to concen­trate on her until late in the season." 
The highlight of Porter's sea­son was the September 14 con­test against then 22nd-ranked Cincinnati in which she scored three goals to lead the Irish to a 4-0 victory. It was her second career hat trick, and only the eighth in Notre Dame history. 
Porter came to Notre Dame after enjoying a fine high school career at Klein High School in Spring, Tex., a suburb of Houston. While there, she was named the team's most valuable offensive player in both her junior and senior sea­sons. In her senior year she also played on the South Texas Women's State soccer team, and she was a member of a club soccer team which also featured current Irish team­mates Tiffany Thompson, Robin Mego, and Kim Gold. 
Last season, as a freshman, Porter started all 20 games for Notre Dame while scoring ten goals, six assists and 26 points to rank as the team's third­highest scorer. She had a hat trick in a 5-0 win over Indiana, and scored the game winner versus Calvin. 

The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz Sophomore Stephanie Porter, here heading the ball in a game against Southern Illinois Edwardsville, was named the MCC Player of the Year. 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 

the break. "This is great. Everybody adjusted really well. We all like playing up-tempo, especially the seniors." 
While pleased with the progress his team is making so far, MacLeod noted several ar­eas he wants to stress on of­fense. 
"I was not pleased with what we did offensively. We have a game that's the passing game and the motion game, and we ran the standing game. We did a lot of standing in the first half, and I don't like to see that because you don't create many good shot opportunities when you stand. 
"Did we run as much or as well as I would like? No, but we're just starting out, and it's going to take time." said MacLeod. 
The Irish pressured the ball­handlers down the court for nearly the entire game, but all agree the defense can use some more work. 
"I don't think we executed the man-to-man real well tonight," said Tower. "I think we didn't have real good ball pressure. A couple times on the weak side we got caught sleeping." 
Said MacLeod, "Defensively, in the first half, we had good ball pressure at times, but there were other times we just allowed them to take the ball deep." 
Notre Dame has some time to work out some of its kinks be­fore the next exhibition game, which will take place Tuesday against Athletes in Action. Following that contest, the Irish will open the regular season at home on Nov. 26 against Butler, starting their quest to return to the NCAA tournament. 


• 

~@iJ[ru~ @b\[M)~ &©©@GJJ~iJQ~]@ ~~®@©1 J\~rl:~9J~J 
• 
-presents­

• 
':A PERSPECTIVE ON A CAREER IN PUBLIC 
ACCOUNTING" 
•
• 

BY •
GRAY GRLEZ IEWSK I COOPERS &LYBRAND 
•  •  
•  
••  Thursday. November 14. 7:00 P.M. Auditorium -Hayes-Healy  ••  

• 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


• 
.,_ I 
I 

JI>tlunri~ ... ~ 
I -· I .,.. I ., • I I ....L I : i 
I 
I 




CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
Thursday 
7 p.m. Student Fall Forum on the North American Free Trade Agreement. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Peace Studies. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development. 7 p.m. Presentation/Reception for all students interested in career opportunities with Chase Manhattan. Foster Room, 3rd Floor LaFortune. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 8 p.m. "Bop and Beyond: A Night of Combo Jazz in Three Acts, .. 
.. 

by Notre Dame Jazz Combos. Koons Band Building. 8 p.m. & 10:30 p.m. Film, "The Seventh Sign." Cushing Auditorium. 
8:10 p.m. National Players Company will present "The Miracle Worker." Washington Hall. Sponsored by Communication and Theatre Department. 
LECTURES 
Thursday 
4:15 
p.m. Lecture: " Thoughts on the Anthropology of National Societies," Richard Adams, University of Texas-Austin. Library Lounge. Sponsored by the Department of Anthropology. 

4:15 
p.m. Lecture: "The New Germany: A New Hegemon in Central Europe," Patricia Davis. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and the Committee for European


@Edward Julius Collegiate CW8718 Studies. 
4:15 p.m. Lecture: "White Swan: Crow Indian Warrior and Painter," Douglas F. Bradley. Annenberg Auditorium, Snite
ACROSS 

Museum of Art. Sponsored by Snite Museum of Art. 
1 Having magnitude 39 More inquisitive 2 College dining room 36 French money 
8 p.m. College of Distinguished Scholar Lecture: "In Search of the
7 Occur 42 Happen again 3 Egg part 37 Antony' s wife 
13 Underwater ICBM 43 Most colllllOn 4 Hagman, for short 38 Bowling term Magic Bullet: Design, Synthesis, and the Study of Microbia Iron 15-roll written word 5 Soviet sea 39 Spay Chelating Agents and Their Use for Drug Delivery," Dr. Marvin • 16 Hug 45 French relatives 6 Kitchen gadget 40 Wearing away Miller. Auditorium Room 238, Galvin Life Science. Sponsored by 
17 Pierces with a 47 Subject of the 7 Organic part of 41 Spot ­
College of Science. 
sharpened stake movie, "Them" soi 1 42 Talked wildly 
18 Ostrichlike bird 48 Feeling honored 8 Location of the 44 On a lucky streak 8 p.m. Lecture: "South Mrica: The Struggle Continues,.. Rev. 19 Roman general 50 Arrividerci ----Matterhorn 46 Most rational Malusi Mpumlwana, Oder of Ethiopia Church of the Province of 
21 Dorothy's aunt, 51 "Give -try" 9 "Harper Valley-" 48 Writer Sylvia ---­
South Africa. Center for Social Concerns. 
49 Removed by an
et al. 52 Sparkle 10 Capital of Sicily22 Cupola 54 "My boy" 11 Adversaries editor 24 Wanders about 55 State tree of 12 Sadat succeeded him 52 Capricorn 25 French cheese Georgia (2 wds.) 14 Indian soldiers 53 Mark with 1 i 1\es · MENU 26 Mortimer -57 Cleverly avoiding 15 Sitting, as a 56 Blunder ,28 Desire 59 Arab jurisdiction statue 58 Relative. for short Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
29 Jim Nabors role 60 Experiences again 20 Suffix for detect 
Top Round of Beef Turkey & Gravy
30-pace 61 Famine 23 Dutch scholar 
Arroz Con Pallo Jumbo Burger
32 Museum sculptures 62-rat 25 More domineering34 Bio--27 Kitchen gadget Fettucini Alfredo Cheese Enchiladas 35 Owns DOWN 29 Understand Deli Bar Deli Bar 
36 Bill Haley and 31 Illuminated the-1 Rushes 33 Shout of surprise 

Bo  Deans  Also don't miss Silence of the LoJDbs Nov. 15th & 16th  
in Concert  Cushing  Auditorium  
8:00 &  10:30 PM  
Admission  $2.00  

Nov. 19th :00 PM Stepan Center 
Special Guest Will T. Massey Tickets on sale at LaFortune Info Desk. $8 students/ $12 general publiCsTuoENT uNION ooARo 


-~--------~-­
Sports 
page 20 Thursday, November 14, 1991 
Irish usher in Macleod era with 75-49 victory 
Explosive offense, Ellis' 22 lead ND over Bayreuth 


By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
When the Irish men's basket­ball team took the floor before its 75-49 dismantling of Bayreuth (Germany). it was ob­vious that things were different around the Joyce ACC. 
There were new uniforms, a new coach, some new players and even a new attitude. Not to mention a new offense. 
The Irish unveiled their new up-tempo game last night, and the initial reviews were thumbs-up. 
Starting the second half, the Irish had a four-point lead. Playing a line-up consisting of LaPhonso Ellis. Keith Tower, Elmer Bennett, Daimon Sweet and freshman Billy Taylor, Notre Dame rolled to a 16-0 run against the out-manned Bayreuth squad, which dressed only eight players. 
By the time the German­league team scored in the sec­ond stanza, nearly six minutes had ticked ofT the clock and the Irish held a 52-34 lead, a mar­gin they would only build on during the final minutes of the game. 
Playing its first game under new coach John MacLeod, Notre Dame came out ready to play, controlling the game from the opening tip. Ellis hit one of two free throws after being fouled, and Bennett connected on a three-point bucket to give the Irish an early 4-0 lead. 
The Irish hit a dry spell in the middle of the half, letting Bayreuth, whose key player, Derrick Taylor, was hobbled with a sprained ankle. sneak back into the game. 

Paul Hamilton and Nils Becker scored four points apiece as Bayreuth went from a five-point deficit to a three­point lead with 7:25 left in the half. 
It didn't take the Irish long to recover, with Ellis and fresh­man Jason Williams leading the way. Williams, who shot 4-4 for the game, including 3-3 from three-point range, swished a three and a two, while Phonz hit 3 of 4 foul shots and added one of his seven dunks to put the Irish up by four at the half. 
Ellis showed just why he is so valuable to the Irish last night. Including his seven dunks. sev­eral of which rattled the teeth of everyone in the building. Ellis scored 22 points and hauled down 13 boards. 
When asked about the play of specific Irish players, Bayreuth coach Eric Dennis shook his head and said, "I just remem­ber Ellis dunking it." 
Up by 20 after the big run, the Irish kept applying the pressure, following it up with a 10-4 run that a tired Bayreuth squad couldn't parry. 
Senior center Keith Tower continued his improvement, scoring eight points and grab­bing seven rebounds, but most importantly, he played a big role in neutralizing Bayreuth's size advantage. 
"Tower does a lot of things that don't show up in the stats," said Dennis. "He took (Bayreuth power forward) Nils Becker out of the game." 
MacLeod agreed. 

"I like what Keith Tower did, and I think when Keith relaxes and settles down, he's going to be effective for us." 

"'­
Ellis determined to raise Irish to uncharted heights 
Mter missing portions of the last two 

seasons due to academic problems,  
LaPhonso Ellis is determined to put to­ 
gether a solid senior campaign.  
"I feel I have something to prove to  
my teammates. I let them down last  
year," Ellis said. "My number one goal  
is to get this team winning."  
. He took the first step toward doing  
so last night in Notre Dame's 75-49  Mike Scrudato  
win· over Bayreuth as he returned to  Sports Writer  
the Irish lineup with a bang. Phonz  
 
scored 22 points, while pulling down  
13 rebounds.  

"I was impressed with what Phonz did," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "He was very active, he ran the floor, he retrieved loose balls and he pounded the boards." 
Though Ellis produced impressive numbers, his most im­portant contribution will not show up in the boxscore. He was extremely effective in starting the Irish fast break with quick outlets to point guards Elmer Bennett and Lamarr Justice. 
Not only did he start a lot of fast breaks, but he also finished a few, as eight of his 22 points came off the break. The most impressive play of the night was an alley-oop slam which Brooks Boyer set up with a perfect pass from just inside half-court. This was just one of seven dunks Phonz had on the night. . 
· Despite the fact that the transition game enabled Notre Dame to go on a 16-0 run to open the second half, MacLeod would still like to see his team run more. This sits well with the Phonz. 
"I like the new offense. It's a nice change and allows us to utilize our speed," Phonz commented. "We did some good things tonight. I was able to get the ball out to Bennett and start the break, and a lot of times I was able to outrun my man and beat him down the floor." 
Another change in this year's team which Ellis prefers is the aggressive man-to-man defense which MacLeod has instituted. 
"Our team helps each other very well when someone gets beat," Ellis added. "This allows us to gamble and create turnovers, something that Elmer did a few times." 
Ellis' return also helped center Keith Tower, who no longer bears the responsibility of being the sole experienced big man on the court. 
see PHONZ/page 18 
The much heralded freshman 
class also made their debut last 
night, and showed they should 
be a force to be reckoned with, 
both in the present and future. 
Williams scored 11 points, 
while Malik Russell, Nathan 
Gilmore, and Lamarr Justice 
played well in their opening 
game for Notre Dame. Billy 
Taylor also impressed with his 
performance. 

"Billy Taylor played a solid 
game," said MacLeod. "He's -that kind of player. He's not flashy, he's just a solid player who defends, kicks it out and runs the floor. He's kind of a quiet player. If you don't watch him closely, you don't really see 
what he's doing on the floor." 
Taylor also enjoyed his first 
game with the Irish. 

"It was really good. I really 
got into it when they started 
playing the national anthem," 
said Taylor~ 

By and large, the Irish were 
happy to finally play against 
some new faces, rather than in­
tra-squad scrimmaging. 

"It was a good game for us. 
We've been waiting for new op­
ponents to bang on, instead of 
ourselves," said MacLeod. 
"You can really see the differ­
ence," said Taylor. "We know 
each other's moves, so it's good 
to go against different people." 
Notre Dame pushed the ball 
up the court at just about every 
opportunity, including after 
baskets. 

"This is the way we've been 
wanting to play," said Sweet, 
who finished with four points 
and three assists, several of 
them highlight-film material on 
see HOOPS/page 18 
Steinberg to speak at Law School 

By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Editor 

With sports salaries seemingly soaring ever upward, much is made of what is wrong with professional sports in the United States. 
Sadly, not much is written about the good guys who have played significant roles in the shaping of pro sports. 
Leigh Steinberg, who will speak at the Notre Dame Law School Courtroom Room today at 12 noon, is the leading sports attorney in the nation. As such, he has worked to redefine the stereotypical notions of the attorneys who hammer out the big money deals. 
For although it may seem that athletes and their attorneys are greedy and unconcerned about the rest of society, that is not universally the case. 
Steinberg is committed not only to making sure the athletes he represents make significant, positive contributions to society, but also to ensuring that the federal governnf'ent establishes standards to prevent shady agents from ensnaring and duping unwitting amateur athletes. 
"I was living in the dorms at UC-Berkeley," said Steinberg, "and I was a dorm counselor while I was going to law school. They moved the freshman foot­ball team into the dorm and Steve Bartkowski was one of the players. 
"In 1975 I was just getting ready to take a job in a firm. At that time, Steve was the num-
Leigh Steinberg 
her one pick in the NFL draft and he asked me to represent him. We got lucky and he ended up getting the largest contract (for a rookie) in NFL history-he got $650,000 over four years, which included a $250,000 signing bonus." 
Steinberg pointed out how far the world of sports has come, as just 15 years after negotiating Bartkowski's contract, he helped Jeff George of the Indianapolis Colts secure a $15 million, six year contract (George's contract included $3.5 million as a signing bonus). 
Steinberg, who has repre­sented the top picks in the last three NFL drafts-Troy Aikman (1989), George (1990), and Russell Maryland (1991)-has set records not only with the contracts he negotiates, but with the number of players he represents. 
After Maryland was selected in 1991, safety Eric Turner of UCLA was chosen second, and quarterback Dan McGwire of San Diego State was chosen third. Steinberg represented both of them, meaning that he represented the top three picks of 1991 as well as the top quar­terback taken in the last three drafts. 
However Steinberg's goals extend beyond top players and top contracts. 
"The average career span is 
3.2 years in pro football," said Steinberg, who will only accept clients who believe in and sup­port his humanitarian goals. ..So what was really important was that the athletes focus on valuing their self-respect, fam­ily, and life in a community where people care for each other. These values stand the test of time, so if I was going to represent athletes, I wanted them to be role models. 
"When Jeff George was the first pick (1990), he set up a scholarship in his high school and we got the Colts to match the money he put in. Now we've got a matching program where Jeff will repay his scholarship to the University of Illinois." 
Like George, most of Steinberg's clients have estab­lished charity ventures-in fact, they have clauses in their record contracts which stipulate that the player (and frequently their team) give back to those places and organizations which enabled them to become the successes they are today. 
Aikman donated $75,000 to a scholarship fund at UCLA, Maryland donated $5,000 to his high school and college athletic departments, Moon established 
see STEINBERG/page 17 
f 
(' 
. ' 






