

VOL. XXIII NO. 113 THURSDAY I MARCH 21, 1991 
1 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SUFR may demonstrate to prod administration 
By KATE MANUEL demonstration depends upon fairs on January 21. News Writer the University giving its ap­The statement called again proval through the Office of for "the institution of an official 
The University's continued Student Affairs. harassment and discrimination refusal to commit to cultural SUFR members said they policy." Although there is such a diversity and the disrespect were unable to comment upon proposal under discussion, manifested by its refusal to ad­what other "further action" Villegas said, "the proposal dress minority concerns, they might take, because doing lacks specific penalties for prompted Students United for so might compromise their ef­violations." Hespect (SUFH) to hold a press fectiveness. Because the University was conference on Wednesday, At the press conference, Pe­able to get the new band and members said. dro Villegas read a prepared ROTC buildings constructed so 
SUFH has planned "further statement, and Villegas, quickly, Villegas questioned the action," including a possible Azikiwe Chandler, and Corey University's commitment to NAACP-sponsored demonstra­Collins answered questions. build a multi-cultural center. tion on March 22, to encourage The statement reiterated The scarcity of minority fac­the Administration's addressing SUFR's initial demands and ulty does not excuse the Uni­minority concerns and to make discussed progress in meeting versity for failing to hire minor­the student body more aware of those demands, which SUFR ity professors, said SUFR SUFH and its goals. presented to Patricia O'Hara, members. 
The occurrence of Friday's Vice President of Student Af-"We believe the University's 

Springtime sensations 

Walsh residents balance eggs Thursday night during the point of the vernal equinox, the time of the year when the sun moves northward crossing the celestial equator, the imaginary line around the sky directly above the earth's equator . Spring begins in the northern hemisphere at this time. 
poor competitiveness in attract­concerns discussed in the Board ing minority faculty should be of Trustees Report on Cultural noted. They should compete for Diversity. scholars like they do for ath­"We're experiencing deliber­letes," said Villegas. "The few ate bureaucratic difficulties in ethnic Americans we have hiring a needed assistant to leave; there's no excuse for minority affairs," Villegas said. that." "We feel our candidate (for as­
Collins cited the example of sistant to the Director of Mi­Princeton as a university which nority Affairs) was scrutinized has been successful in recruit­excessively. ing minority faculty and said, "We (SUFR and the committee "We don't see the lack of faculty preparing the Board of Trustees as an excuse." report) are different. SUFR and 
SUFR members feel the need the committee are distinct to take "further action" because entities that share a common the University has refused to goal," he added. address the minority concerns presented earlier by the BCAC Chandler said, "We realize at and other organizations and are this point that we need con­addressing only those minority frontation." 
Expert: pornography has negative effect on behavior 
By KATE MANUEL tive behavior to normative be­News Writer havior," he said. Osanka feels this 
Pornography negatively ef­"masturbatory conditioning" fects behavior, sexual and has led the subjects whom he otherwise, by causing viewer has studied into patterns of addiction and by creating a rape, murder, child abuse, and need in the viewer to imitate exploitive sexual behavior. the pornographic behavior, said He said that one should ad­Frank Osanka, president of Be­dress the issue of pornography havioral Consultants and au­by asking what is right about it. thor of the Source Book on not what is wrong with it. "It's a Pornography. shorter list," he said. 
Pornography viewers experi­At best, pornography could be ence a four-fold process of ad­said to be free enterprise, a diction, escalation, desensitiza­source of employment for 
tion, and acting out, until women, a form of entertain­"eventually pornography be­ment for a certain segment of comes more important than the population, and a potential people," he said. psychological therapy, Osanka 
According to Osanka, mas­said. turbation personalizes the ex­"At some point, really in the perience of viewing pornogra­60's and 70's, very liberal ther­phy, "It's no longer an objective apists used pornography in experience and the themes of sexual therapy, but they don't pornography change anorma-see PORN I page 4 
DHAHHAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) -A U.S. jet fighter Wednesday shot down an Iraqi warplane over Saddam Hussein's hometown in the first air attack since the cease-fire in the Persian Gulf War. 
U.S. officials said the Iraqi plane was flying in violation of the 3-week-old truce, but they said the engagement did not signal any new round of fight­ing. 
The incident vividly demon­strated the American domi­nance over Iraq's skies that helped the allied coalition oust thll dllfeatlld Iraqi army from Kuwait. 
Now, the focus of lighting has shiftlld inside Iraq, where Saddam's forces are trying to suppress Kurdish and Shiite Muslim insurgencies. 
Iraq on Wednesday accused Iran -its enemy in an eight­year war -of inciting the uprisings. Iran has denied in­volvement, although its presi­dent has urged Saddam to re­sign. 
Iran and Saudi Arabia, Iraq's neighbors and the largest Per­sian Gulf states, announced Wl\dnesday they were restoring diplomatic relations after a three-year rift. Iran, which has been moving to mend relations 

OPERATION 
DESERT STORM 
• 
Kuwaiti government resigns/ page 8 

• 
Peter Arnett talks/ page 8 

• 
Fiance's fate I page 8 


with Arab states, also reopened its embassy in Amman, Jordan. 
The U.S. Central Command said an Air Force F-15C shot down the Iraqi Su-22 jet fighter over Tikrit, the hometown of Iraqi President Saddam. The fate of Iraqi pilot was not known for certain. 
But the wingman on the at­tacking American plane, inter­viewed when he returned to base in central Saudi Arabia, 
·said the Iraqi pilot was down to 100 to 150 feet when he ejected. "I don't think he made it. The chute never blossomed. ... It crumpled as it hit the ground," said the air force captain from Rockland, Mass. 
The American officer could be identified only by his call sign, Whiz. 
President Bush said U.S. forces will not hesitate to shoot down any other Iraqi planes that fly, but added: "I don't think that will happen." 
"We're not resuming hostili­ties. We're not re-engaging," White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said. "We're simply proceeding with the cease-fire as we outlined it to the Iraqis." 
The air engagement occurred less than 100 miles from Kirkuk, a key northern city that Kurdish rebels claimed was be­ing bombarded by Iraqi aircraft Wednesday. Such rebel claims could not be verified indepen­dently. 
The United States has told Iraq not to use its warplanes against the insurgents. Lt. Col. Virginia Pribyla, a Central Command spokeswoman in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, said it was the first time Iraqi fixed­wing combat aircraft have flown since the cease-fire. 
Rebel forces repeatedly have claimed the Iraqi government was using helicopters and war­planes to attack them. 
Kurdish rebel spokesman 
see GULF I page 8 


ND holds business case competition 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Writer 
Graduate students of busi­ness Bill Mountford, Mark Manuel, and Pete Fitzgerald represented Notre Dame in a case competition held between March 17-19 on the Notre Dame campus. 
Judges declared the Univer­sity of Southern California the winner of the competition over the ND group as well as teams from Duke University, University of Texas, and University of Michigan. 
In case competition, the teams are given 24 hours to analyze and define the situa­tion of a real-life business facing difficulty ..Each team must then present their recommendations and answer the questions of a panel of judges. 
The case competition is im­portant in "preparing them to analyze and react to a business case and to prepare suggestions to the directors," said Professor Jim O'Rourke, faculty advisor to the ND team. 

Students are judged by a 
prestigious panel on  their  
analytical  ability,  the  
soundness  of  their  

recommendations, and their written and oral presentation skills. 
The five judges presiding this year were Samuel Certo, dean of the graduate school of business of Rollins University; John Bycraft. president and CEO of Jack­Post Corp.; Michael Hammes, president and CEO of Society Bank; Scott Miller, president and CEO of Burkhart Advertising; and John Waller, president and CEO of Toefco Engineering. 
This year's case, according to Fitzgerald, involved Hughes Supply, Inc., a building contractor that had grown beyond its profitability and faced huge debt. "The team had to determine how to save the company in a declining economy," added O'Rourke. 
The Notre Dame team determined that the problem 
see BUSINESS I page 4 

page 2 Thursday, March 21, 1991
The Observer 


•seniors: Today is the fast day to talk with Silvia Bauza of the ND Volunteers for Puerto Rico about doing a year of service. Stop in at the CSC today, March 21, 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 

•Habitat for Humanity will be holding a House Raising this Saturday, March 23. Volunteers are needed ­no experience necessary. Call Paula Thompson at 237­0788. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1908: Frenchman Henri Farman carried a passenger in a biplane for the first time ever. 

• 
In 1910: U.S. Senate granted ex-president Theodore Roosevelt a yearly pension of $10,000. 

• 
In 1927: Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalists took the Chinese city of Shanghai in a victorious march north from Canton. 

• 
In 1941: The last Italian post in East Libya fell to the Bri­tish. 

• 
In 1965: In Alabama, 3,200 people began a freedom march from Selma to Montgomery. 

• 
In 1985: Israelis killed 21 in Shiite villages in Lebanon, in­cluding two members of the CBS News Team. 



Thursday, March 21, 1991 The Observer page 3 




Jesuit speaks on priests' murders in El Salvador 
BY CHRISTINE WALSH one of the witnesses, Lucia gated "half-truths" regarding sities, Tipton said. it becomes a "political crime" News writer Barrera de Cerna, who had fled the facts of the case. Other problems with adminis­and falls back under the juris­to the U.S. The constitutional and tradi­tering justice in El Salvador diction of the military, said 
.Justice will not be served in Cerna was a housekeeper at tional role of the Salvadoran persist. For example, in that Tipton . the case of the 1989 Jesuit the university who was in her military has been a factor in country, the testimonies of co­The U.S. should do three martyrs of El Salvador, accord­residence, approximately 50 hindering the investigation. conspirators cannot be used things with regard to El Sal­ing to Father Paul Tipton, yards from the Jesuit's back­Unlike the American military, against each other. vador, according to Tipton: president of the Association of yard, when the murders took the military in El Salvador is not Additionally, members of the • Rethink its entire policy vis­
.Jesuit Colleges and Universities. place. Neither of the witnesses responsible to civilian authority; Salvadoran military cannot be a-vis Latin America 
In a lecture and discussion ti­saw the murders, but they did members are trained in a put on trial. The military did fi­• "Cease and desist" in its tled, "The 1989 Jesuit Martyrs hear the gunshots and the sol­special military school and are nally surrender the members of support of the Latin American of El Salvador," Tipton re­diers talking-they were too responsible only for protecting the military who were allegedly military structures counted the events that tran­afraid to look out their win­the constitution. involved in the massacre, in • Force de-militarization of spired in the .Jesuit residences dows. For example, if the govern­Jan. 1990, however, they cannot countries like El Salvador 
at the University of Central Tipton and others feel that the ment in power is not interpret­be put on trial until they are re­"The only thing we can do is America (UCA) on Nov. 16, 1989 U.S. and El Salvador have been ing the constitution consistent moved from the military. to keep the pressure on... not and commented on the current obstructing justice in the case. with the military's interpreta­"There is no possibility for to be vengeful," said Tipton. In status and potential outcomes In a letter to U.S. Secretary of tion, then the military has a justice in that country (El Sal­the cases of Archbishop Romero of th11 case. State James Baker, Tipton duty to overthrow that gov­vador)," said Tipton. "They op­(martyred in San Salvador 11 
According to testimony by claimed that Cerna was abused ernment. erate under a system of Ro­years ago) and the six 1989 witnesses and the suspects, be­and manipulated during an In the throes of the current man/Napoleonic law." Jesuit martyrs, "there is no tween the hours of 1 a.m. and 3 exhausting four-day inter­civil war in El Salvador, the "There is no protection within hope ... but maybe we can 
a.m. on Nov. 16, 1989, members rogation by U.S. and Salvadoran military has sought to the system for judges and good cause some change in the of the Salvadoran military officials. "eliminate the intellectual au­ones are assassinated," Tipton (Salvadoran) system of justice raidnd thn UCA campus and Last month, a committee in thors of the revolution," said said. "The only function of for the people of that country," methodically killed the six the Spanish parliament accused Tipton. Father Ignacio Ellacu­lawyers in El Salvador is to give he said. priests living in the .Jesuit resi­the armed forces of El Salvador ria, president of the UCA, was and take bribes." The lecture was one of the dnnces along with two employ­and the U.S. government of de­one such intellectual author and Furthermore, justice cannot events commemorating the 11th nes of the university. liberately obstructing the legal threat to the military. be served when, for example, of anniversary of the martyrdom 
Three days after the mas­investigation of the murders. The goal of the UCA, accord­the 32 bullet cases found at the of Archbishop Oscar Romero of sacre, the blame was shifted Tipton said he has received ing to Tipton, in addition to scene of the crime, only one has San Salvador, sponsored by the from the military to guerillas "no satisfactory explanations" creating an intellectual envi­been submitted as evidence. Institute for Pastoral and Social from the FMLN, a Marxist rev­from the U.S. State Department ronment, is to be "an agent of Tipton said. Ministry, the Office of Campus olutionary group. regarding the interrogation of change with a focus on political, Currently, judges feel there is Ministry, Keenan Hall, 
According to Tipton, there are Cerna. "Frankly, I am shocked social and economic justice for enough evidence to bring the Pasquerilla East Hall, the only two witnesses. Tipton with the State Department and people of the area {El Sal­case to trial. However, another Institute for International Peace became deeply involved in the the {Salvadoran) embassy," he vador)." This "proactive" char­problem with the system is that Studies and the Helen Kellogg case a month after the mas­said. They have exhibited com­ter is much more progressive if more than 20 people are in­Institute for International sacre, when he took custody of plete "ineptitude" and propa-than those of American univer-volved in a crime in El Salvador Affairs. 
Music professors to present violin, cello recital today 
Special to The Observer In addition to her faculty ap­Viruosi, which performs exten­University, where she studied Young Artists Competition. 
pointment, Plummer is violinist sively in the United States, Eu­with Janos Starker and Fritz 
Violinist Carolyn Plummer for both the resident Notre rope and Mexico, in 1987. Magg. She was selected by Gre­Buransksas has toured and cellist Karen Buranskas, Dame String Trio and the Notre This past summer she served gor Pitigorsky to attend his throughout the U.S., as well as both associate professors of Dame Piano Quartet. She holds as concertmaster of the Grand master class at the University of Brazil, England, Switzerland, music at the University of Notre a bachelor's degree in music Teton Music Festival and was a Southern California. This was Japan, West Germany, and Dame, will present a faculty from the New England guest artist in the Steamboat succeeded by a master's degree Canada. recital today at 8 p.m. in Conservatory, where she was a Springs Chamber Music Festival from Yale University, where Washington Hall. student of Joseph Silverstein. in Colorado and the Great Lakes Branskas studied with Aldo Her recitals with pianist
Plummer and Burnaskas will From 1977 through 1986, she Festival at Notre Dame. Parisot. William Cerny, professor of p11rform a program including held the titled position of assis­Plummer also has performed She received many awards music at Notre Dame, were "Sonata for Violin and Cello in D tant concertmaster of the at the Aspen Music Festival and and distinctions during her ca­highly acclaimed on major Major" by Bocccherini, "Duo for Houston Symphony Orchestra, the Atlanta Virtuosi Chamber reer, including first prize in the campuses throughout the Violin and Cello" by Martinu, which she joined in 1974. She Music Festival at Bates College. Aldo Parisot International Cello United States. She also has "Passacaglia for Violin and was a frequent soloist with the In 1970 she was awarded sec­Competition in Brazil, Concert earned impressive reviews for Cello" by handeVJ. halvorsen, symphony as well as an active ond place in the Coleman Artists Build in New York, the numerous performances, in­and "Doe for Violin and Cello" recitalist and teacher through­Chamber Music Competition in Rossanna Enlow Young Artists cluding her debuts at both Op 7 by Kodaly. out the area. Pasadena, Calif .. Competition in Evansville, and Carnegie Hall in New York and 
The concert is free and open She joined the acclaimed Buransksas received her the Leta Snow String Competi­Wigmore Hall in London. to the public. chamber ensemble Atlanta bachelor's degree from Indiana tion and the North Carolina 
Beirut paper: Hostages to be released 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -A The report in the Ad-Diyar cleric. It said such a release 
Beirut newspaper reported newspaper came just hours would be an "encouraging pre­
Wednesday that American and after the Islamic Jihad for the lude" to the group's freeing Its 
The Rites of Spring other Western hostages held by Liberation of Palestine, which captives. 
pro-Iranian factions in Le­claims to hold two American Ad-Diyar, which is based In 
For banon would be released this hostages, demanded that Israel Christian east Beirut, docs not 
week. release a pro-Iranian Shiite have a record of accurate re­
WINNER 1989) 1989 ACADEMY AWARD 
CANNES FILM FESTIVAL -BESTFOREIGN-



Juniors ( 
SPECIAL JURY PRIZE LANGUAGE FILM 
"SMART, AMBITIOUS, 
• Bookstore Basketball SATIRICAL" 
-Dav1d Ansen. NEWSWEEK 
• 
Christmas In April "A SOARING, MULTIFACETED 

• 
Blue-Gold Game DELIGHT~' 


-Sheila Benson. LOS ANGELES TIMES 

"BRILLIANT, A10. 
YOU'LL REMEMBER IT FOR YEAIIS TO COME:'
• Resume Submitted 
-Gary Franklin, KABC-TV 
To Career and 
Placement Office 
For Resume Books 
at the Snlte 
FHIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:15, 9:45 porting on the 13 Westerners missing In Lebanon, who In­clude six Americans. 
Its report came two days after a meeting in Tehran be­tween President Hashemi Raf­sanjanl and Fathl Shaqaql, who was described by Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency as "an official from Islamic JI­had." 
Islamic Jihad, or Islamic holy war, claims to hold American hostages Torry Anderson and Thomas Sutherland. Islamic JI­had for the Liberation of Palestine ~ a different group -claims to hold Americans Alann Steen and Jesse Turner. 
Anderson, 43, chief Middle East correspondent for The As­sociated Press, Is the longest­held foreign hostage. He was kidnapped In west Beirut March 16, 1985. 
Ad-Diyar's front-page report said the six American hostages would be released Friday at an unnamed hotel In Beirut in the presence of Interior Minister Saml ai-Khatib and the com­mander of Syria's military Intelligence In Lebanon, Brig. Gen. Ghazi Kenaan. 
~------------~----­
page 4 The Observer Thursday, March 21, 1991 

Serbian stays on as head of Yugoslav presidency 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -A Serbian leader withdrew his resignation Wednesday as head of Yugoslavia's presidency, in a move that could help end a deadlock over the collective leadership of the patchwork nation. 
Borisav Jovic had announced Friday he would leave the eight­member federal presidency after failing to persuade other members to declare a nation­wide state of emergency. 
Serbian officials and their al­lies pressed three other repre­sentatives on the council to subsequently quit, which threatened to leave the council without a quorum. 
But on Wednesday, Serbia's Parliament refused to accept Jovic's resignation. Jovic ac­cepted the Parliament vote and said he would serve on the presidency until his one-year term as chairman expires May 15. 

Porn 
continued from page 1 
use it that way now," he added. 
Because most pornography represents "forcible sex for male dominance", and causes 

Business 
continued from page 1 
was, in part, a result of the firm's role as both a producer and a supplier, according to Fitzgerald. They suggested that the company reduce their debt by selling off the manufacturing part and that it utilize its com­puter system, he said. 
The team expressed satisfac­tion with their effort and with the competition. "It helps you to learn how to present ideas," said Manuel. "It mainly teaches you how to think on your feet," added Fitzgerald. 
O'Rourke agreed. "It's a real­world event," he said. "It seems artificial, ... but in the business world, problems of a large and complex sort ... present them­selves with great regularity." 
Mountford, a native of Kin­nelon, N.J. and a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, served almost six years aboard naval cruisers and destroyers. Manuel graduated from Tulane University and spent three years in public relations and marketing with the N.Y. Yan­kees. Fitzgerald. an ND alumni from Alton, Ill., has worked with American Cynamid Co. and Whirlpool Corp. 
The team defeated seven other teams to win a intra-col­lege competition earlier this month to earn the right to compete in the annual inter­collegiate event this week. O'Rourke and Clay Smith, a professor of management, pro­vided help in preparing the team for the competition, ac­cording to team members. 
"This is wonderful prepara­tion for life in the business world," concluded O'Rourke. 
Correction 

In an article in Wednes­day's issue, Jack Powers was incorrectly identified as a former editor-in-chief of the Chicago Tribune. Powers is a former executive editor of the South Bend Tribune. The Observer regrets the error. 
The chairmanship of the council rotates among the rep­resentatives from the six re­publics and two autonomous provinces that make up Yu­goslavia. 
Croatian representative Stipe Mesic, whose republic is bitterly at odds with Serbia, is sched­uled to chair the presidency after Jovic. 

"It's for you to decide and I will respect any decision," Jovic told the legislature moments before it voted to reject his de­cision to step down. 
Jovic's return to the presi­dency ensures it will continue to function. It is also likely to mean the resumption of the bickering among Serbia and the reform-minded republics of Slovenia and Croatia. 
The two westernmost re­

publics seek a loose federation of states in Yugoslavia, and have threatened to secede from the union if they fail. 
But Serbian leaders, who are closely allied with some of the nation's military chiefs, seek to maintain a strong central gov­ernment. 
The Serbian Parliament is dominated by the Socialist Party of Serbian ruler Slobodan Milosevic, but recent anti-Milo­sevic protests have put pressure on the Parliament. 
Some members were worried that Jovic's withdrawal from the presidency could lead to civil war by shutting down an important forum for debate among the republics. 
Although the opposition holds 56 of Serbian Parliament's 250 seats, only 17 deputies voted for Jovic's resignation. 
Milosevic, who took over Ser­bia's Communist Party in 1987 and was confirmed as president of the. republic in December popular elections, has faced the biggest challenge of his career in a series of protests the past two weeks. 
On March 9, two people died and 120 were injured in clashes between police and about 100,000 anti-Communist protesters. 
Army troops were called in for about 24 hours following the unrest. After continuing protests in Serbia, Jovic -a close ally of Milosevic -asked the other presidency members to declare a state of emergency across the nation. 
When a majority of presidency members refused his call, Jovic announced his resignation. 
He told Parliament on Wednesday that the presi­dency's refusal to accept emer­gency measures "was aimed at paralyzing the Yugoslav army, and preventing it from ensuring a peaceful settlement of the Yugoslav crisis and avoiding civil war." 
He accused "anti-Socialist forces" of seeking the "Lebanonization" of Yugoslavia. 
Jovic also denounced the fed­eral government of Premier Ante Markovic, a champion of market-oriented economic re­forms. 
Speaking in the federal Par­liament earlier Wednesday, Markovic had said the critics of his reforms "were only inter­ested in preserving their power." 

sexual dysfunction and marital on the man's head," he said. Osanka feels that everyone is pornography to some degree," break-up, most therapists who Pornography exhibits a fan­experienced with pornography he said. had used it now apologize for tasy. Most rape-pornography and that all who have read having done so, Osanka said. films begin with the female Playboy have committed a Osanka's lecture, "Does 
"Most heterosexual pornog­struggling against her crime. Pornography Influence Behav­raphy is oriented toward what "attacker" but end with her ior?", was co-sponsored by the producers feel are male sexual verbally and explicitly "asking "We're all experts on this be­Student Union Board and the norms ... The toilet seat is never for more," he said. cause we've all had exposure to Center for Social Concerns. 





Apple Computer, Inc. 
,_
•® Open House! 
Come see our new printers and enjoy some refreshements! 

StyleWriter Personal LaserWriter LS 
360 dpi -inkjet technology 300 dpi -laser printer QuickDraw{frueType fonts QuickDraw{frue Type fonts 
$380.00  $830.00  
Date:  Friday, March 22, 1991  
Time:  lO:OOam-2:00pm  
Place:  NOTRE DAME  
COMPUTER STORE  

, 
Offic"! of University Computing Compu:·ing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00 
Apple representatives will be available to answer your questions! tl.The power to be your best.. 
r-------------~--~-------~-----~---­
Thursday, March 21, 1991 The Observer page 5 

Supreme Court bars 'fetal protection' practices 
WASHINGTON (APJ -The Supreme Court said Wednesday that employers may not adopt "fetal protection" policies that bar women of child-bearing age from certain hazardous jobs, calling such rules illegal sex discrimination. 
"Decisions about the welfare of futurn children must be left to the parents who concnive, bear. support and raise them rather than to the employers who hirn those parents," the eourt said in the decision that will affect millions of working women nationwide. 
The justices had been told that at least 15 major corpora­tions -including such indus­trial giants as General Motors, Monsanto and duPont -have fetal protection policies. 
Th(~ court unanimously struck down a policy imposed since 19S2 by the Milwaukee-based Johnson Controls Inc., the na­tion's largest manufacturer of automobile batteries. The policy banned women of child-bearing age who could not prove they wP.re infP.rtile from certain hazardous but top-paying jobs. 
In other decisions Wednesday, the court: 
-Set aside a $44,000 award won by a nursing student who was kicked out of a Rhode Is­land college for being too fat. 
-Barred Americans injured in foreign countries from suing 
U.S. employees based abroad. 
-Ruled that the secretary of labor, not a federal safety and health review board, has the last word on what federal regu­lations for on-the-job safety require. 
In the fetal-protection case, five of the court's nine members said Congress had banned all sex-specific fetal protection policies. 
"Concern for a woman's ex­isting or potential offspring historically has been the excuse for denying women equal em­ployment opportunities," Justice Harry Blackmun wrote for the majority. 
"It is no more appropriate for the courts than it is for in­dividual employers to decide whether a woman's reproduc­tive role is more important to herself and her family than her economic role," he said. "Congress has left this choice to the woman as hers to make." 
Blackmun was joined by two fellow liberals, Justices Thur­good Marshall and John Paul Stevens; Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, the court's only woman member; and Justice David Souter, the court's newest member. 
Chief Justice William Rehn­quist and Justices Byron White and Anthony Kennedy voted to strike down the policy, but said the court went too far when it ruled that fetal protection poli­cies never can be justified as a "bona fide occupational quali­fication." 
Justice Antonin Scalia, in a separate concurring opinion, said he generally agreed with Blackmun but seemed to sug-

Iraqi soldier questioned 
American soldiers question an Iraqi soldier who was among a group of Iraqi soldiers attempting to seek asyl~m across the bo~der of the ~o~hernmost allied checkpoint above Safwan, Iraq Tuesday. U.S. soldiers at the checkpomt are quest1omng and then turning back all Iraqi military personnel. 
gest a fetal protection policy might be legally justified in some instances. 
"I'm jubilant. The victory ap­pears airtight," said Alison Wetherfield of the National Or­ganization for Women's Legal Defense Fund. "If this policy had been upheld, millions of women could have suffered." 
Shirley Sagawa of the Na­tional Women's Law Center called it "a landmark case for women." 
Gloyce Qualls, a Johnson Con­trols employee in Milwaukee who underwent sterilization in 1983 to keep her job, also praised the decision. 
"It took a long time," she said. "To be honest, it was a few people against a big corporation and I didn't think we really had a chance." 
But Judie Brown of the con­servative American Life League said that "far from being a vic­tory for women, this decision turns women into economic robots." 
Beverly LaHaye of Concerned Women for America, another conservative group, said "protecting a woman's body is a far greater value" than pre­venting sex discrimination. 
LaHaye said she was espe­cially disappointed by the votes of Souter and O'Connor. 
"It's not known whether he's a good conservative justice," she said about Souter. "He was not a good conservative in this case." 
Eleanor Smeal of the liberal Fund for a Feminist Majority praised the ruling. "We hope the pivotal Souter and O'Connor votes will continue to keep a majority for women's votes," she said. 
Souter's vote is considered a key for the court's future direc­tion on legalized abortion. Lawyers on both sides said Wednesday's ruling offers no firm insights into Souter's views on the abortion issue. 
Eric Clapton's 4-year-old son dies after fall in N.Y. 
NEW YORK (AP) -The 4 1/2­year-old son of rock guitarist Eric Clapton died Wednesday after he fell out the window of a 53rd-floor apartment, police said. 
Conor Clapton fell shortly after 11 a.m. and landed on the roof of a four-story building next door, according to Officer Kim Royster. 
The boy's mother, Italian television star Lori Del Santo, and a housekeeper were in the apartment when he fell, Royster said. 
Eric Clapton was in New York when the accident occurred, but he was not in the apartment, said his publicist, Ronnie Lippin in Los Angeles. 
Clapton was examined and released from the emergency room at Lenox Hill Hospital afterward, said hospital spokeswoman Ann Warner. She said his condition didn't require immediate medical attention but wouldn't provide additional details. 
The housekeeper had just fin­ished cleaning the window pane and had left it open to air out the room when Conor ran past him and fell out the 4-by-6 foot window, police said. 
Del Santo and Conor were staying in the apartment during their visit to New York from Italy, Lippin said. She did not know who owns the apartment in the sleek, modern Galleria 
The Christian Conscience: Ethical Perspectives on War and Peace 
FORMATION OF CONSCIENCE 
AND CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION 

Dr. Todd Whitmore Assistant Professor, Theology. 
Tonight-March 21 7:30p.m. LaFortune Student Center Tom Dooley Room, First Floor 
Condominiums on East 57th Street. 
Clapton, a founding member of Cream and Derek & the Dominos, is generally consid­ered to be one of the great rock guitar stylists. He also wrote many hit songs, including "Layla" and "Let it Rain." 
Clapton won a Grammy Award this year as best male rock vocalist for his song "Bad Love." Clapton's agent, tour manager and bodyguard were killed in a helicopter accident last summer that also killed blues guitarist Stevie Ray Vaughan. 
Clapton was divorced from Patti Boyd Harrison -the ex­wife of Clapton's friend, former Beatie George Harrison -in 1988. Boyd was granted an un­contested divorce on the grounds of Clapton's adultery with Del Santo. Their son was born in 1986. 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, MAR. 18 
1 a.m. Security assisted a praduate student to St. Joseph's Medical Cen­ter lor Injuries sustained In a bicycle accident. 
1:14 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of cash from a vending machine in the pit area of the Hesburgh library. 
3:58 p.m. A Pangborn resident reported that Pangborn Hall Food­sales had been broken into and that cash and other items had been taken. The Incident occurred sometime over the break. 
6:40 p.m. Security assisted a Grace resident to St. Joseph's Medi­cal Center lor Injuries sustained play­Ing basketball. 
8:40 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of hla Hewlett­Packard calcula~r from a dassroom In Cushing Hall. 
10:48 p.m. Security assisted a University employee to Memorial Hospital lor medical treatment. 
TUESDAY, MAR. 19 
12:40 p.m. A St. Edward's resi­dent reported the theft of his Pans­sonic portable stereo from his dorm room. The stereo was later found. 
2:36 p.m. Security responded to an automobile accident at the corner of Old Juniper Road and Douglas Road. Both vehldes sustained prop­erty damage. 
5:02 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of speakers and tapes from his automobile while parked In the B 16 lot. 
WED., MAR. 20 
12:11 a.m. Security assisted a Grace resident to St. Joseph's Medi­cal Center lor injuries sustained while playing basketball. 
12:52 a.m. A Walsh resident re­ported receiving an obscene phone cal. 
4:311 a.m. Security laaued a cita­tion to a South Bend resident lor speeding on Weat Edison Road. 

page 6 The Observer Thursday, March 21, 1991 
ATLANTA (AP) -Emory University agreed to form a committee to review faculty disciplinary procedures after a professor accused of kissing women students without their consent was cleared of sexual harassment. 
About 200 law students boy­cotted class Tuesday and packed a university auditorium to protest the decision not to discipline law professor Abra­ham Ordover. 
President James Laney told the students the university would comply with a student government request to form a committee to review the man­ner in which hearings of alleged misconduct by faculty members are conducted. 
At least 13 women have filed informal complaints with the university against Ordover. The most serious allegation was that he violated a law school policy that guarantees students anonymity on exams. 
Two women also alleged Or­dover kissed them without their consent. 
Law Dean Howard Hunter said a three-member committee of professors found that Or­dover engaged in "inappropriate conduct" but did not violate the school's sexual harassment policy. Hunter said Ordover was reprimanded. 
The reprimand bars Ordover from touching or extending so­cial invitations to students. He is also barred from talking to women students in his office with his door closed after school hours, and he must seek counseling. 
Ordover denied the allega­tions, calling some of them trivial. He also criticized the student protest. 
"Students who did not prevail want to change by mob action the legal process which they engaged in," he said. "I think that is highly inappropriate and very, very dangerous." 
Laney said the review com­mittee will include students and faculty and will report by the end of the semester. 
Jeff Straus, a third-year law school student, said he made a formal complaint to the univer­sity after listening "to a number of women who were upset and teary-eyed as they recounted their experiences" with Ordover. 
Straus called the university's response "totally unaccept­able." 


ISU student killed in elevator accident 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. -A 23­year-old Indiana State Univer­sity junior was killed early Wednesday while riding the top of an elevator in a men's dor­mitory, officials said. 
Nlichael John Deliduka, 23, of Shalimar, Fla., was killed at about 3:30 a.m. at Jones Hall, said ISU spokesman John New­ton. 
According to Newton, the student was part of a group that apparently used a coat hanger to gain access to the top of some elevators. The victim was evidently playing on the elevator with three or four other students, and was moving from one elevator to another. 
The elevator the victim had been moving to apparently had been stuck and he was trying to free it. The elevator activated, pinning him between the car­riage and a fixed object, New­ton said. 
The man was killed instantly, Newton said. No one else was injured. 
The body was taken to a Terre Haute area hospital for an autopsy. Funeral arrange­ments were pending. 
Newton said he's heard re­ports that riding atop elevators is a fad going around some col­lege campuses. 

Harvard moves forward in female hiring 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. (AP) ­Harvard University has moved forward in hiring female junior faculty but still lags in the number of senior women schol­ars and minority appointments, a study showed. 
The percentage of female ju­nior professors in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences increased 3.3 percent to 33.2 percent in 1990, the Harvard Affirmative Action Plan reported. 
"Harvard has made very good progress," Ronald Quincy, the university's associate vice president, said Wednesday. 
But the annual study reported that the number of senior women scholars and minority appointments at all levels failed to make significant strides. 
Four women were granted lifetime appointments in the arts and sciences at Harvard in 1990, only one less than in 1989. But the hiring rate for female faculty compared to men was down by 17.1 percent over the previous year, the report said. 
Harvard presents the findings to the U.S. Department of Labor as required by law. 
Harvard ranks 15th in a pool of 17 prestigious schools in its percentage of female tenured sees Harvard's affirmative ac­tion policy. 
Harvard plans to hire six new senior women faculty members over the next two years to make the arts and sciences faculty reflect the larger pool of women scholars available, said Joseph McCarthy, assistant dean for academic planning. 
faculty, according to the report. ~(+++++++++++++++++....++++++~ 
Harvard also ranks ninth in the ranking for percentage of minority professors. 
Quincy said Harvard had done well in other hiring areas and was committed to further improvements. 
"We are certainly not going to remain in the middle of the pack," said Quincy, who over-
r-'W----d---b-.---------------,. ASSOCIATION OF JESUIT UNIVERSITIES • 
ou1 you eInterested in becoming an 
Assl.stant to the Notre Dame Judi•CI•at Councl•t? 
1 

POSffiONS AVAILABLE: 
ELECTIONS Assistant LEGAL CONCERNS M;istant TRAINING Assistant ADMINISTRATIVE Assistant 
each of whof!I will be eligible for the position ofJudicial Council President for the Academic Year 1992-1993. 
ELIGffiiLITY: 

Any cw:rent fr~hf!Iru,t. sophomore, or junior of both ~cadem~c and. discJplmary good standing who is interested m working wtth Student Government and Administration. 
DUE DATE: 

Applications available and due by WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27,1991 to the Student Government Secretary, 2nd floor LaFortune. Interviews will be scheduled.~ 
-~ 
AP Photo 
Ramadan 

An Arab .man sits at the site of the old Roman city of Philadelphia, overlookmg the Jordanian capital of Amman during midday prayers Tuesday. Fasting is known as one of the five pillars of Islam, and during the Holy month of Ramadan, which began this week, all Moslems are asked to participate in the practice. 

-.:: 
~ .... • 


HELP CELEBRATE CENTRAL AMERICA WEEK • 
WEDNESDAY. MARCH 20 •
•

•s:OO 
PM KEENAN/STANDFORD CHAPEL • UPDATE: THE 1989 JESUIT MARTYRS OF EL SALVADOR--FR PAUL TIPTON SJ, • 

• 
THVRSDAY. MARcH 21 + 


• i~=~~IC~:~~~;~~F~~~g~~i~cCENTRALAMERICANFOODAND •.
• THE OPPORTUNITY TO VISIT WITH VISmNG EL SALVADORAN STUDENTS 
: •s:OOPM CENTERFORSOCIALCONCERNS •
LECTURE: "CONTEMPORARY IMPUCATIONS OF THE LIFE AND DEATH OF ARCHBISHOP • ROMERO" PROFESSOR TERRY LYNN KARL. STANFORD UNIVERSITY, WITH REFLECTIONS • • OF EL SALVADORAN S11JDENTS • 
• 

FRIDAY. MARCH 22 • • •s:OO PM GRACE HALL PIT "THE SOUNDS OF EL SALVADOR" --FEATURING 1HE EL SALVADORAN STUDENT BAND. • • 

VEREDA, WHOSE MUSIC REFLECTS THE STRUGGLES OF THEIR COUNTRY. • 
SUNDAY. MARCH 24 
•12:30 PM WG CABIN CHAPEL 
:

MASS COMMEMERATING THE DEATH OF ARCHBISHOP ROMERO 
: CENTRAL AMERICA WEEK IS SPONSORED BY: OVERSEAS' DEVEWPMENT NE1WORK. INSTITIITE FOR PASTORAL MINISTRY, CII.A, WOMEN UNITED, INSTITUTE FOR PEACE : 
• STUDIES, LEAGUE OF UNITED LATIN AMERICAN CITIZENS, KELLOGG INSTITUTE. PE. 
i 
KEENAN, GRACE. STUDENT GOVERNMENT, CAMPUS MINIS1RY. CENTER FOR SOCIAL : CONCERNS, AND MANY, MANY INDIVIDUALS IN WHOM WE WISH TO EXPRESS OUR THANKS FOR TI-IEIR CONTRIBUTIONS. 
..............................• 


Thursday, March 21, 1991 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -A 
car bomb exploded in a Chris­
tian suburb Wednesday as the 
defense minister drove by, 
killing eight people and hurling 
the minister's armor-plated 
Mereedes upside down onto the 
sidewalk. 
A bodyguard was killed, and 
at least 21 people, including the 
minister, were reported injured. 
A police explosives expert 
ealled the attack an "obvious 
attempt to assassinate" Defense 
Minister Michel Murr, the day 
before a deadline he helped set 
for Christian and Muslim 
militias to disband. A govern­
ment official said later that the 
deadline was off. 
The disbanding of militias is part of the government's plan to secure the end of a 16-year-old civil war that has claimed 130,000 lives. 
The bomb seemed aimed at disrupting the meeting on the plan by the Syrian-backed gov­ernment of President Elias Hrawi. 
Murr, a Christian, suffered neck and head injuries. He was treated and went to the meet­ing. In a live radio interview afterward, he said such attacks will not hinder government ef­forts to rid the nation of lawless militias. 
But after the five-hour meet­ing, Information Minister Min­ister Albert Mansour an­nounced the delay in the plan to disband the militias. 
Mansour said government of­ficials wanted more time to eonsider it. 
The others killed were not immediately identified. Police said three soldiers and 17 civil­ian motorists were also injured in the morning blast in the sub­urb of Antelias. 
Lebanese soldiers searched Antelias for bombers, but no arrests were made. Hundreds of weeping people crowded the ama s11eking relatives. 
Dinner 

presented by The Alpha-Omega Players 
Featuring an Evening of Fun, Wit, and Comedy! 




9\&~t Year 
Monday, March 25 Alumni-Senior Club Tickets: $6 at LaFortune Dinner: 6:30 pm Show: 8:00 pm 
No Age Restriction 
The dinner will be catered by Spaghetti Works. 
\, I ;·
.'" I 
i
lr
i 
~ 
Beirut lnt'l. Airport 
2 miles 
~ 
2km 
AP 

Antelias, 2 1/2 miles north of downtown, is within the bound­aries of the newly reunited capital and is policed by the regular army and police. 
The car bombing, a frequent phenomenon during the civil war, was the first this year. 
It also was the first such at­tack since the Lebanese army moved into the capital and its immediate surroundings Dec. 3, creating a militia-free greater Beirut. 
In 1990, car bomb explosions killed 20 people and wounded 130, by police count. In 1989, 80 people were killed and 342 wounded in nine such bomb­ings. 
No group has claimed re­sponsibility for the attacks. But all were blamed on militiamen, entrenched outside the capital, and some sympathizers. 
Theater 


The Observer 
page 7 

Students enjoy the springtime temperatures at the Shaheen-Mestrovic Memorial near O'Shaugnessy . 

Michael Jackson, Sony sing big bucks 

NEW YORK (AP) -Sony Corp. demonstrated its awe­some power in the entertain­ment industry Wednesday by announcing a long-term con­tract with pop superstar Michael Jackson that could be worth more than $1 billion in sales. 
The agreement between Jackson and the Japanese electronics giant's U.S. entertainment subsidiary Sony Software call for Jackson's collaboration in projects ranging from full-length feature films to his pwn record label. He also will do work for Sony in television shows and possibly even video games. 
Jackson's compensation in the agreement wasn't disclosed, but was bound to vastly increase the wealth of a modern-day legend who already is one of the best-paid recording stars in the world. 
"It is the first time that Sony has structured an agreement for an entertainer to cross from one of our mediums into another," said Sony Software spokesman Robert Zito. "We 
~TUDENTS, FACULTY, & STAFF 
This Limited Edition Collectors 
Stein is now available to YOU at a 
GREATLY reduced price! I I 
Will make for ideal Commencement 
and parting gifts. 
STOP IN NOW 
United Beverage Co., 840 Prairie 287-1067 
~

o'f:Y.
$8.29 

(Sets of 4-6 Further 
Reduced) For All You Do, This Stain's Fo 
YOU I 

Classic From The King Of Beers' 

Michael Jackson 

feel Michael Jackson is cer­tainly unique." 
It was one of the largest deals ever with a single entertainer and dwarfed the $32 million recording contract Michael's sister Janet signed earlier this month with Virgin Records. 
"This is a great opportunity for us to both continue and ex­pand our relationship with Michael Jackson," Sony Soft­ware president Michael Schul­hof said in a statement. 
"Sony and Michael Jackson have had an outstanding rela­tionship in music," he said. "We look forward to expanding those horizons to include other entertainment opportunities, 

which only Sony can provide." 
The agreement marks the lat­
est example of a trend reshap­
ing entertainment: the corpo­
rate marriages of Japanese 
electronics companies that 
produce the cameras, stereos, 
compact disk players and 
video-cassette recorders, to the 
creative forces that make the 
films, records, CDs and videos 
played on them. 
Sony, which produces some of 
the best-known brand names in 
consumer electronics gear, was 
able to engineer the deal with 
Jackson partly because it owns 
the company he has recorded 
with for 15 years. Sony pur­
chased the former CBS Records 
Inc. for $2 billion in 1988. 
Other Japanese electronics 
giants have since moved to 
match Sony's strategy. The 
most striking example is Mat­
sushita Industrial Electric Co., 
maker of Panasonic, Quasar 
and Technics electronic gear, 
which earlier this year pur­
chased MCA Inc., owner of Uni­
versal Studios, for about $7 
billion. 
Under the terms of the Sony­
Jackson arrangement disclosed 
Wednesday, Jackson will pro­
duce six albums, the first 
scheduled for release on Sony's 
Epic label this summer. lie also 
will work with famed directors 
ranging from Richard Atten­
borough to David Lynch In pro­
ducing short lilms based on his 
songs. 
In addition, Jackson will star 
in a full-length feature for 
Columbia, which the Sony 
statement described as a 
"musical action adventure" 
written by Caroline Thompson, 
author of "Edward Scis­
sorhands," and Larry Wilson, 
co-author of "Beetlejuice." 
Jackson's own record label 
will be known as "Nation 
Records," and he will sign new 
and established artists to 
record on it. 
"Jackson's new relationship 
with Sony could easily be worth 
more than $1 billion," Sony 
said in the statement. 
Zito said the $1 billion figure 
was a conservative estimate of 
retail sales derived from Jack­
son's work, based partly on the projected sales of the six al­bums alone. 

Bob Jones, one of Jackson's agents at MJJ Productions in Los Angeles, said the contract is long-tenn but doesn't specify a time frame In years. Jones said he had no additional com­ment beyond the Sony state­ment. 



~---------~ ---~-------...... 
page 8 OPERATION DESERT STORM Thursday, March 21, 1991 


Kuwait's government resigns after failing to serve 

1991 
SUMMER SESSIONS BROCHURES NOW RURILRDLE 
Courses offered In areas of: 
Arts &Sciences Business Education Professional Studies 
For more Information, call or write: 
Xavier University Summer Sessions 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, Ohio 45207 (513) 745-3601 
is looking for interested and enthusiastic people to fill the following paid position: 
Graphics Editor 
•
Excellent portfolio material 

•
First hand experience with the workings of a 


newspaper. Applicants should have graphics experience on Metcintosh computers. Interested people should submit a resume and a one-page personal statement to Lisa Eaton at the Observer office by Friday, March 23 at 5pm. Any questions should be directed to Lisa at 239-7471. 

KUWAIT CITY (AP) -Kuwait's government has quit after failing to provide basic services and reassert its authority in the three weeks since the Persian Gulf War ended, officials said Wednesday. 
However, there has been no indication the ruling al-Sabah family plans to give up any power. 
Crown Prince Saad Abdullah al-Sabah, who dissolved the 22­member Cabinet during a meet­ing Tuesday night, implied that some former members of the Kuwaiti resistance might be in­vited to join a new government, but he made no promises. 
He has previously promised to restore the Parliament, sus­pended in 1986, but has never suggested a date for elections. 
The government's resignation won applause from Kuwaitis who have become increasingly critical of its performance since the U.S.-led forces drove Iraqi invaders from the emirate on Feb. 27. 
Sulayman al-Mutawa, the planning minister, said the Cabinet resigned largely be-

Soldier finds fiance 
._,,,,,..·::· 


dead on battlefield 
BOSTON (AP) -An Army soldier whose job is identifying Americans killed in the Gulf War recognized one as the man she planned to marry next fall, her family said. 
Army Spc. Holly Perkins, 2l. said her fiance was killed by a land mine while scavenging for souvenirs in Kuwait, said her foster father, Bill Norcott. 
"She's a basket case," Nor~ cott told The Patriot Ledger of Quincy on Tuesday. "They were planning to get married in the fall here in Massachusetts." 
The Army confirmed that Spc. Manuel Sapien Jr.• 22, died in a non-combat death Sunday. He was originally from Denver. 
cause of public criticism. 
The government's resignation "may ease the pressure that is building up," al-Mutawa said. "Let us hope it speeds up the return to parliamentary elec­tions." 
The Cabinet had been sworn in June 20, 1990, only weeks before the Iraqi invasion of Aug. 2. 
Kuwait's emir, Sheik Jaber al­Ahmed al-Sabah, was expected to instruct the crown prince, who is also prime minister, to form a new government. One former government minister said that could take two weeks. 
There was no word on how the government would function in the interim. 
"This is the right time for a change," the crown prince said Wednesday morning at his res­idence. 
He said the government had done little planning during its seven-month exile in Saudi Arabia. Its members fled Kuwait when the Iraqis in­vaded. 
The emir did not return to Kuwait until 16 days after the 

Perkins. who is from the Boston suburb of Whitman, met Sapien while both were stationed in Germany. They had been engaged for eight months. 
Both were sent to Saudi 

Arabia last fall with.... the 1st Armored Division. Sapien was assigned to a combatunit. the father said. and Perkins worked in a casualty identification center. 
Norcott said he hadn't met Sapien, but Perkins ~·talked about him all the time in her letters and on the phone." 
Perkins will be home soon on leave after a stopover in Germany. 
"Her captain is letting her fly out," he said. 
Iraqis left, and he received only a lukewarm welcome from Kuwaitis. Some believed he should have returned sooner. 
However, pro-democracy ac­tivists are not calling for the ouster of the emir, whose family dominates the government and has ruled Kuwait since 1759. The reformers are demanding greater democratic freedoms, }l
"' .....,.;;,.

including elections and a restoration of the Parliament. 
A Cabinet reshuffle, even if it includes new faces from outside the al-Sabah family, is unlikely to satisfy ordinary citizens frustrated with widespread shortages in the emirate that once flourished on oil revenue. 
The government has so far been unable to restore electric­ity, water and other services. In many parts of Kuwait City, lines 
l ~ 

for food and water have been growing each day. ~ AP Photo 


Responding to the resigna­Kuwait's Crown Prince Saad Abdullah ai-Sabah, who is also prime min­tions, pro-democracy activist ister, leaves a private residence where he is staying in Kuwait CityEman al-Bedah said: "That's Wednesday after he dissolved the cabinet in response to public anger good news. Maybe something over its inability to provide leadership and services after the Iraqi occu­will get done now." pation. The prime minister offered the resignations late Tuesday night. 
CNN's Peter Arnett: 'I have no apologies' 
WASHINGTON (APJ -Peter Arnett came home to a hero's welcome Tuesday at the Na­tional Press Club and defended his reporting from Baghdad as vital to the American public. 
"I have no apologies," the Cable News Network corre­spondent told a crowd of hun­dreds of journalists. 
He had been called an Iraqi sympathizer by Sen. Alan Simp­son, R-Wyo., and many other Americans also had questioned why he had stayed behind to report from the capital of a na­tion with whom the United States was at war. 
Arnett, the only U.S. journal­ist to report from Iraq for the duration of the war, said he was "amused, frankly" by Simpson's comments. But he added, "I guess the American people weren't quite clear about what we were doing." 
The American news media 

Peter Arnett 

have a long history of covering both sides of wars, from Viet­nam to Central America to Mghanistan, he said. 
Some of Arnett's most con­troversial reports dealt with the 
U.S. bombing of what Iraq called a civilian bomb shelter. The Pentagon called it a com­mand and control center for the Iraqi military. Scores of people were killed in the attack. 
Arnett questioned Iraqi offi­cials repeatedly about the bombed shelter and examined it closely. 
He said the only change he made in his reports as the story unfolded was to delete the word "civilian" in reference to the facility and to simply call it a shelter, he said. 
Iraqi censorship was a "fairly tough" obstacle, said Arnett. But the American public learned substantial information from his reports, despite the constraints, he said. 
Though he wasn't scared for his life, it did give him pause when a U.S. cruise missile blew up an auditorium 200 yards away. 
He added that the near-misses seemed to scare the ever­present Iraqi censors. "They didn't have the future of journalistic freedom in their minds," Arnett quipped. 



Gulf 
continued from page 1 
Hoshyar Zebari said Wednesday in London that Iraqi helicopters and aircraft were bombarding Kirkuk, causing hundreds of casualties. Kurdish guerrillas claimed they had taken control of the city despite the Iraqi air attack, driving out the last army defenders in intensive street fighting. 
The U.S. F-15C that shot down the Iraqi jet was one of two sent by an AWACS radar plane to visually identify two Iraqi Su-22s before engaging them. 
The second Iraqi warplane "landed on its own after the engagement," the Central Command reported. 
"The Iraqi attempt to fly these two fighter aircraft is a violation of terms agreed with Iraqi military officials during military-to-military talks at Safwan, Iraq, on March 3," the Central Command said. 
Central Command spokesman Maj. Keith Gillett said the F -15C fired a single Sidewinder heat­seeking missile in the low­altitude attack. 
He said he could not say where the Iraqi planes took off from, where they were heading nor what their weapons or ordnance were. 


Asked whether there was a warning to the Iraqi planes be­fore they were shot down, Gillett said: "No, there wasn't, quite frankly. The Iraqi gov­ernment had been told very clearly that such an attempt would lead to the shootdown of aircraft." 
Pribyla said the United States has been flying combat air pa­trois over Iraq since the cease­fire began, but refused to say how many planes were involved or what weapons they carry. 
Before the Gulf War began Jan. 17, Iraq was believed to have about 700 warplanes. Last week, Air Force Gen. Merrill McPeak said the allies had con­firmed the Iraqis lost 234 war­planes in the conflict and that another 141 were believed de­stroyed in attacks on air shel­ters. In addition, 137 planes have taken sanctuary in Iran. 
In a second round of cease­fire talks Sunday, allied military commanders warned Iraqi commanders not to move their warplanes for any reason. 
Secretary of State James Baker III has acknowledged the 
U.S. stance has a "collateral ef­fect" of hindering Baghdad from fighting the rebels. How­ever, he has insisted the United States' intent was not to help topple Saddam's government. 

Xavier Unlversny is an academic corrmunity commlned lo equal opportunly lor al persons regardless 
ol age. sex, race. refiglon. handicap, or nallonal orgln. 
·-~-----~------­
Thursday, March 21, 1991 
Cuban pilot flies to U.S., seeks political asylum 
KEY WEST, Fla. (AP) -A Cuban pilot flew an unarmed Soviet-built jet into a naval air bas1~ Wednesday and requested political asylum, Navy officials said. 
Informed sources told The Associated Press the pilot is Maj. Orestes Lorenzo Perez, 38, and the jet is a MiG-27. 
Most military authorities have said Cuba was not believed to have the MiG-27, which is a single-seat, single-engine, ground attack aircraft intro­duced in the late 1970s. 
A Navy statement initially identified the plane as a MiG­27BN, but Pentagon officials were looking at the possibility the jet was an older MiG-23, said Cmdr. Steve Honda, spokesman for the Naval Air Force Atlantic fleet in Norfolk, 
Va. 
The pilot was "scared to death" when he landed at Key West Naval Air Station in nearby Boca Chica because his communications equipment had not been functioning properly and he feared being shot down by U.S. aircraft, said the sources, who asked not to be identified. 
Ensign Robin Perkins of the naval base said the pilot re­quested political asylum in the United States. 
"It looked like he was just checking out Key West before he decided to land," said Fred Cabanas, a private flight in­structor whose plane nearly collided with the jet as it came in. "He went right over the top of my head." 
Perkins said the pilot had ra­dioed his intentions and was allowed to land without inci­dent. U.S. State Department of­ficials and Customs agents in­terviewed him before turning him over to immigration au­thorities, said U.S. Customs Service spokesman Joseph Krokos. 
Lorenzo Perez knows little English, but apparently has family in the Miami area, said Krokos and the sources in Washington. 
About 250 Cubans have de­fected over the past six months, mostly crossing the 90-mile passage between Cuba and the Florida coast in rafts or boats, said the Cuban-American Na­tional Foundation, an anti­communist group. 
The Observer 


AP Photo

Protection 
A man and a woman with face masks watch the clearance of hazardous chemicals from Klong Toey, Bangkok's main port Wednesday. Many people in Klong Toey have fallen sick after inhaling toxic fumes from a major chemical fire there on March 2. 


applications for 

COMMISSIONER POSITIONS during the 1991-92 school year. Applications can be picked up at the Secretary's desk on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
** The deadline for submitting applications is Friday, March 22. 

page 9 
The Black Panthers are back 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) ­
Twenty years after the Black 
Panthers shocked some Ameri­
cans with their militant de­
mands for equality, the radical 
group's newspaper is making a 
comeback. 
"The Black Panther is Back!" 
reads the announcement for 
Wednesday's unveiling of the 
first edition of the newspaper 
published by former party 
members. 
"This is a day I've waited for," 
said Landon Williams, a former 
member of the group's central 
committee. "Once again this 
vehicle is back in the hands of 
the people." 
The revived newspaper, 
subtitled Black Community 
News Service, is a quarterly but 
otherwise much the same as 
the old Black Panther, which 
was circulated weekly under 
the leadership of Huey Newton. 
The new paper also will work 
more closely with black busi­
nesses, said Sheba Haven, a 
member of the newspaper 
committee. 
"We have a greater interest in working with the black busi­ness community in an amicable way," she said. "We'll be focus­ing on programs that are exist­ing now and trying to get peo­ple to network." 
Policy will still be guided by the party's 10-point platform, which lists a series of goals in­cluding decent housing and free health care. 
Demonstrating the party's more radical side, the platform also says that "all black and oppressed people should be armed for self-defense of our homes and communities against these Fascist police forces." 
With a headline of "The Struggle Continues," the new Black Panther contains some of the fiery rhetoric for which the old paper was known. 
"In the cities where we live, the (black) community is being destroyed by the plagues of drugs, unemployment ... legal­ized police terror and murder, and systematic and pervasive institutional racism designed to destroy our community," said the lead editorial. 
Williams, who has a master's degree in public policy and works for the city of Berkeley, said not much has changed since the Black Panthers dis­solved in the mid-1970s. 
"The issues that we ad­dressed then are issues today. The only difference I think will be we've all become much more sophisticated in terms of language style," he said. 
At the University of Califor­nia-Berkeley, black studies lec­turer Roy Thomas said he was pleased to hear of the newspa­per's return. 

"Any time there's another or­gan, another voice raised that is addressing some of the issues critical to black America I welcome that because in the papers that exist, you can't get all the voices and all the views," Thomas said. 
Although there has been talk of reviving the party, the news­paper is the only thing making a comeback, Haven and Williams said. 
The Black Panthers were founded in 1966 by Newton and Bobby Seale in Oakland. At its peak, the Panthers were a na­tional organization that ran food programs and schools for ghetto youths, taught defense against violent attacks and served as a counterpoint to the pacifist side of the civil rights movement. 
Lp_ag~e__1_0_______________________________________________T~h~e~O~b~s~e~~~e~r----------------------------------~Thursday,March21, 1991 







Business 
Thursday, March 21, 1991 
Symposium will discuss Church's influence on social/economic issues 
By SIOBHAN MCCARTHY Business Writer 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Heligious Values in Business will host an interna­tional symposium on April 14­17 to discuss the Catholic Church's stance and influence on social issues. 
Featured speakers include Agostino Cardinal Casaroli, former secretary of state, Fa­ther Theodore llesburgh, pres­ident emeritus of the University of Notre Dame, and Jean-Yves Calvez, S.J., of Paris. 
The tradition of Catholic So­cial Thought as a voice of social assessment and leadership began in 1891 with Pope Leo Xlll's Herum Novarum. 
"The church wanted to have some say, have a voice and some influence on these issues," said John Houck, professor of management in the college of business administration. Houck has played a significant role in the organization of the symposium. 
"The real big issue is that the church must speak to men and women of good will, and must speak to men and women about the moral outlook that must prevail in the business world today. Whether it is for dignity and equality for women or for fair wages for its own employ­et~s. it must not be hypocriti­cally... it must speak with cred­ibility," llouck said. 
The conference will deal with concerns such as "Should the church speak out in social is­sues?", "Do they have any com­petence or relevance in this or arc they exceeding their bounds?", and "How can the church utilize its resources in order to form a vision. of our future?" according to Houck. 
The academic conference will examine two specific questions: 
•What 
lasting contribution has been felt by these writings during the last hundred years? 

•What 
is the unfinished agenda for both the present and future tradition of these re­ligious writings? 


After Herum Novarum, the writings went on to include the 
U.S. Bishops' statement antici­pating the New Deal Reforms in 1919. "The Bishops took a stance that the church needed to be more involved in human 
New York $125 Frankfurt $305 London $ 285 Zurich $319 Parts $305 
Scheduled earners' Book anytrme' Fares 112 AT from Ch1cago Some re· slnctrons apply. On-the·spol rail· passes. lni'l. Student I 0 cards. youth hostel passes. work and stuay pro· 

,•••••• " • ~1_2-95~:2~'!5 -----..""!'.~ •••.~.~••~•.~.-~-~--~-~·""=·"'~·""!'·":'·"l"·'r"="'~~--~ 
g"m' ~!~rr!~_jatalog. 

Chicago. IL 60610 

decency, the problems of lower income families," said Houck. 
Other writings include the counciliar documents of Vati­can II in the 1960s, in which Pope John XXIII raised the is­sue of international responsibil­ity and looked at areas of poverty and underdevelopment. 
Pope John XXIII said that "the way to social justice was through economic and political development, if rightly done," according to Houck. 
Recent writings include re­gional statements of South American Bishops and the U.S. Bishops' Economic Justice for All. 
The optimism of the 1960s has turned to pessimism in the 1990s, Houck said. The values of successful corporations are sharply opposing to those of the church and the Christian view of the virtuous person, ac­cording to an article in The New York Times. 
Yet the conference seeks to promote and explore a religious vision of corporate power for the future. It also hopes to review the record of the 1980s, Houck said. 
"Is it a matter of the rich get­ting richer and the poor getting poorer? This issue must be probed," he said. 
The conference will begin at 8 p.m. on April 14 with a concert featuring the Notre Dame Chorale and the South Bend Symphony Orchestra performing appropriate music that represents the past hundred years. In addition, there will be an art and book exhibit in the Hesburgh Library. 
Representatives from the business, church, government, labor, and academic areas will participate in the three day event. 
page 11 


Illinois Gov. Jim Edgar, left, Desiree Glapion Rogers, the director of the Illinois Lottery, and Stephen Wolf, chairman and president of United Airlines, announced a new lottery game Tuesday in Chicago. United and the Illinois lottery joined forces to create a game that rewards winners with plane tickets. 
Taster's Choice takes unusual approach 
NEW YORK (AP) -Are those flirty neighbors in the new Taster's Choice ads ever going to become more than just cof­fee lovers? 
In their first encounter, she ran clean out of java during a dinner party but found that the new guy next door had just what she needed. In the second ad, he was entertaining an­other woman at dinner when his neighbor stopped by to re­turn the jar. 
"Look, I'm busy right now but ... perhaps?" he asks at the doorway. "Perhaps," she replies as she turns to leave. 
Nestle Beverage Co. has made a soap opera out of the commercials and hopes the sales message won't get lost in the romantic suspense. 
The episodic approach is unusual, but not unprece­dented. 
Southern New England Tele­phone is running a campaign that features calls between a college student and her father. 
___ --~-~-~--~-.~-~--=--~-.-!"!.~.-~.-~-~.-~.~-~.~ .•":'."'!"."'!"."'!"~ 

is looking for students interested in the paid position of 
Illustrator 
You must be able to work either Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday evenings. If you are interested, contact Jake Frost at 283-1 078. 
PANAMA: THE FORGOTTEN WAR? ONE YEAR A"ER. 
STANLEY MUSCH Ell PRESIDENT OF UNIVERSIDAD SANTA MARIA LA ANTIGUA 
(PANAMA) 

Pb. d. C•didate Univ. of Noire BIOI 
THURSDAY, MARCH 21 2:15 • 3:45 in DEClO 131 SPONSORED BY GALA 
Pacific Bell says people lingered on calls after it ran a series a few years ago that featured two old friends describing their exploits and keeping in touch by phone. 
Nonetheless, ad experts say Taster's Choice is taking an ex­pensive gamble with the ap­proach, which one executive familiar with the plans said may involve a half-dozen more ads and spending of about $25 million this year. 
The experts say people have so many things to watch these days that an ad series could leave many viewers more con­fused than amused. Moreover, they say even those who get hooked on the story may forget to buy the coffee. 
Taster's Choice picked the soap opera approach largely because its ad agency, McCann­Erickson Worldwide, used it successfully for another Nestle coffee in Britain for four years. 
Warren won't be specific about what they have in mind. But Warren said he thinks, "the chase has to be on forever. The moment they get together, it's over." 

When the Great American Dream isn'tgreat enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistanCe is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 

Apply for the 1991 ~lla.uwifflUf! @rr{j@fru~@lkf1®rru ~@©f]J!JlUW@ ©®I.M!I.M!~~~@@ Applications are available from the Student Government Secretary 2nd floor Lafortune Due: Friday, March 22 at 4:00pm Note--We need an ~~l'X~f!  



Viewpoint
page 12 Thursday, March 21, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilberte Gomez 
News Editor .•...•.....••.......... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ••••••••.Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ............•.• David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor•••.•.••.••...••••..John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor·in·Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Layoff rumor worries ND workers 
Dear Editor: just cast us out in the cold. Even food service, as it would not at­
"This letter concerns the . the laundry workers were given tract as many workers -for fear managers of Notre Dame Food jobs when the laundry burned of no income during the 3 Service. down. months of the year (counting 
We do not wish to "fly off the Most of the food service breaks and summer). Also, we handle" as of yet, cause we re­workers are hard working peo­have the worry of paying $18.75 alize a lot of what we have ple who are willing to work long into our family insurance every heard may be rumors. We do extra hours when the going gets week -money that we must know however, that a portion of rough -during special events, "come up with", when we are it is indeed true, as many of us JPW's, Graduations, etc. We receiving no work or pay. full time workers find that we cannot draw unemployment like We beg of you-to please re­will NOT be working ANY hours other laid off workers may do. consider on cutting us too during spring break. Rumor has Our bills do not stop or go away drastically -to put yourselves in it that we also won't be during the breaks or over our shoes for a moment and receiving many (if any) hours summer vacation. We do not think of how you would react if during the entire summer. draw a summer salary, as you just heard that you would 
We realize that the University school teachers do. No-one not be receiving a paycheck is concerned about cutting labor wants to hire a family support­next week. costs, etc. but for most of us, we ing adult for a couple of months Should the appeals from Our are talking about "our jobs" -in the summer, when they can Lady's food service workers go our means of living -supporting hire teenagers at a cheaper rate unheard, our only other request our families. We tend to think ofpay. . is that Father Griffin include us that this is a little more This leaves us out in the cold. in his PRAYERS when he writes important than the new $3,000 Many of us love our work in his next "letter to a lonely God!" bench sitting out on Juniper Rd. food service, and would hate to We are most all willing to work be forced to "transfer" to other From the NO Dining Hall food anywhere on campus where we 12 month positions on campus, service employees 
Dear Editor: South Bend community, provid­could earn our livings during just because we can't afford not March 5, 1991 The Notre Dame Enterprise ing it with a volunteer service the summer, but please don't to. This would also hurt the NO 
Society is a newly founded non­organization. We will work on 
political organization dedicated community projects together, 
to a proposition. That participate in neighborhood tu­
Observer unobservant in caption 
proposition is to bring blacks toring programs together and 
and whites at Notre Dame to­raise funds for charitable or­Dear Editor: Is not the statue pictured that leading Catholic university in 
gether. It is a proposition rooted ganizations together. Unless my religious education of Saint Bernadette kneeling in the United States! 
in inter-racial cooperation and Additionally, we will be spon­has failed me, and I don't think adoration of the Virgin Mary, 
inter-racial friendships. soring a number of recreational it has, I don't think The rather than the Virgin Mary Lane Curtis activities which do not involve Observer "observed" in its kneeling as stated? I think so! (father of Steve-ND'91) A fundamental tenet of the volunteer service. edition of 8 March 1991. Quite a faux pas for the Mar.11, 1991 
Group promotes racial harmony 
Notre Dame Enterprise Society is its dedication to non-political We will hold our first meeting objectives. This means we will tonight at 7:30 in the MBA stu­not participate in political de­dent lounge located in the bates, discussions or arguments basement of Hayes-Healy for all or sponsor political activities. students interested in becoming Members of the Enterprise members of the Enterprise Society will be free to Society. We encourage Notre participate in such activities on Dame students and faculty to their own, but the Enterprise attend. All are welcome. Society will neither participate in nor sponsor them. J. Patrick Brady 
James Burkhart The Enterprise Society will D.S. Ayers serve the Notre Dame and Mar. 21 , 1991 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
HWwe 
!Mi'JNG OUT, SIR? 
\ . 

I SEe YCU 
HIRCI)A NtiA/8AR.­7liNCfJR ... ­
l 
HAP w. we'Re 
IXJ/NG seRIOUS 
~M&/IKJIAJ. 
tue CAN'TGeT CAU6HT SHOI<T-HANl?W. 

..,ANO, OF C()(J!i!58,!N 
A TANK,>OU CAN19rl{)l(f; 
ATAU! 
I 
'You are today where your thoughts have brought you. You will be tomorrow where your thoughts take you." 
James Allen 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 

Viewpoint
Thursday, Marr,h 21, 1991 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
United States must support new nuclear test ban treaty 
Dear Editor: 
A nuclear bomb exploded in my home town over Spring Break; and I mean that quite literally and seriously. Over the past 45 years, more than 900 nuclear bombs have been deto­nated there, and the bombing will continue. My home town is Las Vegas, and the expolsions I speak of take place an average of 12 times a year at the Nevada Nuclear Test Site (NTS). 
It is justified that these deto­nations arn necessary for three basic reasons: weapons devel­opment, deterrence of aggres­sion and assurance that existing bombs are safe (bombs are safe!). 
With stockpiles sufficient to destroy the planet twelve times over, thll need for development of more effective, or more lethal (more lethal?), or just plain more weapons holds about as much water as the sun-baked ground in which the tests take place. It is analogous to owning a home with triple locks and deadbolts on not only the front and back doors, but on every cupboard, cabinet, drawer, closet and bathroom. as well. The locksmith selling this "ammunition" is certainly not going to say, "You have enough locks now, I'll stop developing them. and you stop buying them". 
When eonsidering the argu­ment concerning deterrence of aggression, NTS officials claim that our arsenals have been successful in preventing war since the end of World War II. When confronted with the nu­merous conflicts that have oc­curred in this time frame, par­ticularly in Asia, Africa and Latin America, these officals hastily qualify their claim to "preventing war in Western Eu­rope." 
The question must be asked for what sort of nation/world are we providing security? In our own country, poverty and hornelessness are still being swept under the rug. Educa­tion, affordable health services and alternative energy research desperately cry out for funding. What ever happened to the wars on drugs, AIDS and illit­eracy? Each nuclear test costs between $30 to $60 million. These tests are only a small part of the development and expansion of militarization. Such funds should certainly be­long to the elusive peace divi­dend that was so hoped for with the end of the Cold War. 
The final justification for nu­clear weapons testing is that it is necessary to insure the effec­tiveness and safety of existing bombs. Resides being an oxy­moron in itself, this rational­izaiton has little persuasive power. A bomb detonated at the site certainly can only insure that that particular weapon operated correctly. 
In discussing human safety issues, more attention should be focused on the radiation leaks that have been reported by the Department of Energy (DOE) after such tests. Since testing has been moved underground, 79,300 curies have been leaked into the atmosphere; the Chernobyl disaster released 81,000 curies. In addition, these tests threaten the goundwater supply to the Las Vegas valley with a population of over one million and growing by 6,000 people a month. The city must already restrict rights to the overtaxed water supplies. 
Also, the NTS is directly adja­cent to the proposed national high-level nuclear waste dump, Yucca Mountain, an area that must be guaranteed stable for a minimum of 10,000 years. Are we to believe that the forces released by nuclear explosions nearby are not going to affect the stability of the geological strata? 
This leads to discusison of a final, but no less important, victim of the testing: the envi­ronment. Plutonium must be created and uranium must be mined for production and test­ing of weapons. These materials are often located in protected nature reserves or on Native American lands. The laws protecting these areas and peoples are ignored in the name of "national security." Even the land the NTS occupies belongs to the Western Schoshone Na­tion by the authority of the Ruby Valley Treaty of 1963. Acres of this land are already so contaminated that it must be quarantined for thousands of years. Private companies who hold contracts with the DOE carry out the creation and en­richment of plutonium and uranium and are allowed to function outside of enviromen­tal laws and safety require­ments because of their "national security" status. Yet the DOE Secretary Herrington in 1988 stated that the U.S. was "awash with plutonium." 
This past January in New York City, an international con­ference was held to amend the Limited Test Ban Treaty of 1963 that banned atmospheric nuclear testing and called for an eventual end to all forms of testing. The conference, held early in the month, was lost in the spotlight of the conflict in the Gulf. The U.S. announced its plan to veto many amendment proposed before the conference even convened. Yet the Soviet Union, France and England have all stated their intent to agree to a Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) contingent of the inclusion of the U.S. 
Such a ban is verifiable be­cause testing can now be de­tected with highly sensitive seismography and satellite re­connaissance. In addition, "the ban would not only prevent su­perpowers from developing weapons of new design, but would serve as barrier to the development of nuclear war­heads by third-world countries, expert Leonard S. Spector of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. 
The CTBT conference brought no vote, and the issue is still up for discussion and eventual vote. Concurrent Resolutions introduced in Congress by Sen­ator Torn Harkin (K-IA) and Representative Wayne Ownes (D-UT) urge President Bush to support a CTBT at the Confer­ence on Disarmament, and the bilateral nuclear testing nego­tiations. Write your senators urging them to co-sponsor Se­nate Concurerent Resolution #1, and write to your represen­tative urging support of House Resolution #16. In addition, write to the President to call for a stop to nuclear testing and to request funds for clean up of weapons facilities and their environs rather than funding new produciton plants. 
We have arrived at a golden opportunity to end the arms race and the human, economic and environmental destruction associated with the build-up. It is also a now-or-never moment, and as the nation who can and will make or break the passage of a Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, we must show the ini­tiative and courage to pluck away the leech of nuclear weapons testing and develop­ment and allow the lifeblood of our nation and the world to circulate and nourish from within. 
Amy Jenlsta Breen Phillips Hall March 18, 1991 

Time is quickly running out for the modern "Lost Generation" 
Dear Editor: 
We are thP Hollow men 
We are the stuffed men 
/,eaning togPther 
1/eadpiecP filled with straw, Alas! 
-T.S.Eliot, "The Hollow Men" 

We are the scarred gnnuation. W11 are the burdened ones. We are the ofT­spring of the jaded and the doomed. We live in darkening times where rain is poison and sex is death. This is the Age of Gravity and we're feeling its pull like no other generation bt1fore us. We bear the Greatest Weight: wn hold the Promise. We' ve seen our parents lose their jobs. We've seen our par­ents get divorced. And remar­ried. And divorced again. And Recession. And Inflation. And the break-up of the nuclear family. And, most recently, the horrors of war. 
We are the Scarred Generation and our suffering is both deep and novel. But why do we have nobody to chronicle it? Where are the poets, the writers and the artists? Perhaps they're discouraged or even overwhelmed. The whole experience is so amorphous and layered and hard to figure out. Technology makes it all so instant and at the same time, so removnd. 
And all this disillusionment for the children born during the Summer of Love? Born in the Sixties, the decade of Hope with a capital "II", The Great Society, The Brave New World. Our generation was lied to from the start. We suffer from the Disease of Being Promised Too Much. We were told that we'd inherit the Earth and now we've come to find we've been cut out of the will. No -let me rephrase that -we're still in the will, the estate's just bankrupt. 
We've disinvented all that was once sacred. Did we topple the icons of our parents or did they topple them for us. In either case, the statues lay broken on the ground and we've neither the mortar nor the original blueprints... God, Money, Country, Family, Marriage, Honor. We've seen them, warts and all and we're not im­pressed. Is all this honesty re­ally that good for us? Mediablitzmadnessinstantacces sexpose. 
Our parents' heroes have se­crets and scars (and for that matter, so do our parents), which is alright. Nobody walks on water anymore. Not around here. But did we have to see the scars; did we have to be told the secrets? They've undermined our belief then chastised us for losing faith. 
But if it's their fault for setting up roadblocks on the avenue to Spiritual Fulfillment, it's ours for not taking them down (or at lest driving around them, even if it means going up on to the burm). If ambivalence and complacency were a com­modity, we'd be the wealthiest generation yet. Yes, we are as spineless as we are scarred, and we are terrified of making choices. Instead of embarking on the journey, we sit paralyzed in emotional traffic and do nothing. Or worse yet, we take the first exit marked $. 
Our dried voices, when 
We whisper together 
Are quiet and meaningless 
As wind in dry grass 
Or rats' feet over broken glass 
In our dry cellar 
-T.S. Eliot, "The Hollow Men" 

So how do we fill the empti­ness? With sex, drugs or alco­hol like those before us? No, of course not. That would be too Bohemian, too beatnik, too Lost Generation. Oh fear not ­we're a lost generation all right (hell, we can't even find the map) we just deny it. In fact, denial is the new watchword. We deny the extent of our shame in much the same way we deny ourselves the frivolous, hedonistic joys of youth. We don't drink or smoke or even exceed the speed limit -those things are no good for us. Well neither are greed, self-aggran­dizement, unchecked vanity or lack of compassion, yet we snack on those daily. 
We eat right, take vitamins and exercise regularly, but we're medicating the wrong thing -it's our souls, not our bodies that needs healing. Our exterious are pristine and oh­so-fit, but our interiors are all decay. We are rotting from the inside out. We'd rather lift weights than read a book. We'd rather go to a tanning bed than to a museum, or to a town council meeting or to church. More denial. 
You're beautiful, more beau­tiful than me You're honorable, more honorable than me You're loyal to the Bank Of America We're sharpening stones, walking on coals 
To improve our business acumen ... Look who bought the myth! 
R.E.M. "Exhuming McCarthy" 
We want to ward ofT death, so we run 5 miles a day. But what good is delaying death when we're already living a Death in Life? What happened to "seizing the day," or was that just something we saw in a movie once? 1\venty years ago, college students said "if it feels good do it." Today, we just say no. More and more denial. We are the Caution Pilgrims and we will pay dearly for it. We not only Jet Ronald Reagan legislate our morality for us (most notable with the over-21 drinking age), we've even volunteered to do the policing. Are we exhuming Jack LeLane, exhuming Prohibition or exhuming McCarthy? I'm beginning to think they're all the same thing. 
Which brings me to politics ­where we are at our most cau­tious, spineless worst. As a whole, we are essentially apolit­ical. When so many of our gen­eration jumped on the Conservative bandwagon in the mid-Eighties, they obviously bought into the myth that a good American is a silent one. When we actually choose to support an issue, we pick only the safest and the most non­controversial topics, like the environment. (Can anyone re­ally be propollution?) But even these receive a luke-warm, half-hearted reception, and in the nine months since Earth Day, most of us have forgotten about he ozone layer. Hornelessness. The Deficit. Education. The usual response is, "What's in it for me?" 
We have no allegiances to anything, save to our own fi­nancial stability. We're unsure of what we support, but adamant about what we don't support. We define what we like in terms of what we don't like. We're anti-everything but pro­nothing, and that requires ab­solutely no courage. But courage and commitment may be mistaken for subversion, and we're nothing if not anti­subversive. We live in an age where political activism is seen as an un-American activity, Along the lines of flag-burning of buying a Japanese car. Protesting is out, business <;chool is in, and psuedo-patrio­tisrn is all the rage! 
Huge brains, small necks... and fat wallets-these are the dominant physical characteristics of the '80's... The Generation ofSwine. 
-Dr. Hunter S. Thompson 

We are truly lost souls, 
schooled in the credit-card, 
shopping-mall mentality of the 
"Gimrne Decade," when style 
triumphed over substance. 
What heroes we're left with go 
unappreciated, and if they are 
our role models, then they've 
taught us one valuable lesson­
integrity doesn't pay. Vanilla Ice 
has sold 5 million records, yet 
the Replacements can't even fill 
a VFW hall. Perhaps better than 
any other pop idols, the New 
Kids on the Block sum up the 
prevailing zeitgeist of our 
tirnes-talentless, flashy, 
technogeeks who have parleyed 
greed and avarice into a million 
dollar marketing scheme. On 
top of moral bankruptcy and 
spiritual depravity, our genera­
tion seems to have a monopoly 
on bad taste as well. 
This is a pronouncement. This 
is a judgement. This is not a 
love song. We are filthy and we 
are guilty. You, me, all of us. 
We are Sinners in the Hands of 
an Embarrassed God. A God 
who has been around long 
enough to expect more. We are 
a generation of budding ac­
countants, bankers and insur­
ance salesmen. We are gray, we 
are dull and we are 
complacent. We are wasting our 
time, we are wasting our 
promise. I'm not saying that we should "tune in, turn on and drop out." All I'm saying is WAKE THE HELL UP!!! Because ·your youth is passing very quickly and ... TIME ... IS ... 
RUNNING... OUT! 
Erik V. Huey Second Year Law Student Mar. 18, 1991 

---------------~-~----------------­
Accent 
page 14 Thursday, March 21, 1991 
Sounds of Spring 
Glee Club 'Concert Features the Year of Women 
By ELIZABETH VIDA 
Accent Writer 

With the mercury climbing into the high fifties, even sixties on a good day, spring seems to be just around the corner. One reliable sign of warmer tem­peratures is the annual spring Notre Dame Glee Club Concert, which will be held this Friday evening at 8:15 p.m. at Washington Hall. Doors will open at 7:15, with general seating. 
This concert will offer some­thing special in addition to the Glee Club's already top-notch performances. According to student, will perform as alto­The interesting noises that the Year of Women." nation, and it should be a good Glee Club Publicity Manager soloist in Franz Schubert's will be emitted during this The cost of commissioning evening of music," Hoffman Kevin Hoffman, a senior from Standchen D. 920. Seavy-Alves, modern piece of work promise both pieces was offset by funds said of the performance. Flanner, the Glee Club is incor­concert-goers may remember, to make it one of the more from the Year of Women Besides a performance in porating the Year of Women performed the female alto solo memorable Glee Club committee. Ann Arbor with the Michigan theme into the concert. last fall in Mendelssohn's performances. Glee Club over the weekend of 
This year's theme celebrating oratorio "Elijah." '"Gloria/Herzliebster Jesu' is Although the spring season April 5 and 6, the only other women's accomplishments may a more traditional, religious isn't nearly as busy for the Glee performance at Notre Dame seem a little difficult to tie in The two new pieces are piece, with even a few Club as fall and Christmas, after the spring concert is the with the all-male Glee Club. "Everyone Sang" by Libby Gregorian chants thrown in," there are a few other notable concert the night before com­However, pieces by two well­Larsen and "Gloria/ Hoffman remarked. "Alice performances left on the calen­mencement, which will take a known contemporary women Herzliebster Jesu" by Alice Parker is a very famous and dar to top off yet another suc­considerable amount of prepa­composers were commissioned Parker. Larsen is an up and well respected East Coast com­cessful year. ration time. by the Club for this concert. coming composer out of poser. We've had a lot of suc­This Sunday, March 24, at Be sure to catch the Glee 
In addition to these never­Minneapolis, and her piece cess with her pieces in the past, 8:00 p.m., they will be Club sometime this weekend in before performed pieces, the doesn't contain a whole lot of and Carl Starn (Glee Club performing sacred music at the only two opportunities for concert will also feature a rare words-in fact, according to Director) thought it would be a after vespers with the Harvard undergraduates to hear the re­treat: Christina Seavey-Alves, a Hoffman, "we make some dif­great idea to have her compose Glee Club. "The Harvard Glee wards of a lot of hard work and music performance graduate ferent noises during the song." a piece just for us in honor of Club is among the best in the talent. 
Creator of SafeWalk earns Irish Clover Award 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Irish Clover Award. to the students of the Notre a better person?" walk alone at night." Editor-In-chief It appears that her hard work Dame community." The quest to answer these Not only does a student have 
While spring break may have has finally paid off-she was Since transferring to Notre two questions has guided to budget an extra 15 minutes been the most exciting part of selected by Leo Burnett ad­Dame during her sophomore Mahony through her last two into her schedule, she also has the month for most students at vertising company after a selec­year, Mahony has contributed years at the University. to "change her way of think­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, tive interviewing process and to the community through the During the fall of her junior ing." for ND senior Gina Mahony the will work in their client establishment of the year, she noticed that there was Despite obstacles, Mahony is fun began when she came back services department in Chicago. University's first security escort an alarming number of attacks confident that SafeWalk is a to campus. She was also recognized by her service, SafeWalk. She also oh the campus. She was sur­permanent part of student life 
This week she received some peers for her work as a student chaired the recent Board of prised to learn that Notre Dame at Notre Dame. She says that news that made the end of leader. Trustees report on cultural did not have a student escort freshmen view the service as a break seem less dreadful. Not Irish Clover Award winners diversity. service like her previous normal part of campus life. only was she offered her first are selected by the Student After transferring from school. Mahony was also con­Security issues are at the top job, she also received the 1991 Senate "for outstanding service James Madison University, cerned that many students be­of Mahony's and other students 
Mahony spent her first year at lieved the campus did not have lists of day-to-day concerns, Notre Dame acting "like a kid a need for one. she says. Students at Notre in a candy shop." She described "I wrote a letter to The Dame are lucky, she says, be­herself as very eager to get in­Observer expressing the need cause "we have one of the top volved in many activities. She for a security escort service at Security escort programs in the was a member of the varsity Notre Dame," says Mahony. country." team and the Army Reserve Next she met with then-Student Her work with SafeWalk has Officers' Training Corps Body President Matt Breslin. led to other opportunities for (ROTC). His commitment to the idea Mahony in both Notre Dame's 
At the end of her sophomore spurred Mahony to research Security/Police Department and year Mahony had to make some the idea further. Student Government-the two choices about her extracurricu­After studying services at groups that were instrumental lar life. "The swimming was other schools, Mahony was able in assisting her with Safe Walk. taking too much time and I felt to develop a proposal which In addition to her responsibil­that this was not the best way I was presented to the adminis­ities with SafeWalk, Mahony could contribute to Notre tration. Her plan was approved serves as the coordinator for Dame," says Mahony. During and received funding from the student employment at that year she also decided to University. Security. She works eight to ten switch from the College of Although many people agree hours a week in the Campus Business to the College of Arts that SafeWalk is a good idea, Security Building. and Letters. Mahony is· always trying to im­Now that Mahony has se­
At the start of her junior year prove the service's image and cured a job she is getting ready Mahony says she experienced a make it more accessible. to move on and start making strong call to contribute to her "The biggest stumbling block contributions to the "real" school. She asked herself is that for a woman to use the world. "It's getting more diffi­"What can you do to make service, she has to admit she's cult to attend classes, I'm really Notre Dame a better place and vulnerable," says Mahony. "She looking forward to starting my how will Notre Dame make you has to admit that she cannot future." 


~---~----­
-~-I 
Thursday, March 21, 1991 The Observer page 15 
-
Bo and doctors don't know if he will ever play again 
WASIIINGTON lAP) -A source dose to Bo Jackson says the two-sport star's left hip is so severely damaged it most likely will prevent him from ever roturning to professional sports, The Washington Post rnported in its Thursday edi­tions. 
"The cartilage has sort of wasted away" since the injury and damage is worse than ini­tially thought, the source, who was not named, was quoted as saying. "In reality, he has an old man's arthritic hip." 
Doctors, including Jackson's personal physician, have dif­fered on whether Jackson could ever play sports again. The Kansas City Royals team doctor told the team this week Jackson should not play baseball this season. 
Jackson was injured in an NFL playoff game on Jan. 13 crutches since. 
between  the  Los  Angeles  
Raiders  and  Cincinnati  
Bengals,  and  has  been  on  

The Royals released the former Heisman Trophy winner on Monday because they do not expect him to be able to play this year. So far, Jackson has not been claimed for the waiver price of$1. 
Los Angeles Raiders manag­ing partner Al Davis has said he expects Jackson to be ready to play football in the fall. 
The Post quoted its source, however, as saying Jackson could play baseball only "if he can hit home runs and then hobble around the bases." 
"There is no question: He will not play professional sports again," the source was quoted as saying. 
According to the report, mi­tial X-rays of damage suffered in the AFC playoff game against the Bengals showed only a small fracture not re­quiring surgery. But key blood vessels were stretched and, without an adequate supply of blood, cartilage in the hip be­gan to die, a condition called chondrolysis. 
"That's the big problem," the source was quoted as saying. 
The report also said X-ray studies for the Royals in mid­February not only confirmed the loss of cartilage but also found early signs of bone dam­age as a result of loss of blood from the injury. More X-rays in mid-March found continued damage, the source said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from t 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classlfieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

• 
I need ride to iowa City or nearby ADOPTION: Loving, professional Wednesday, March 27, is CHRONIC DESIRE 1991 FISHER REGATTA lor Easter-call Jen 2170 couple will give your newborn the T-SHIRTSI
I NOTICES 
best things in life. Let us help you Engineering Sweatshirt Day! Last night to buy shirts through this difficult time. Medical is tonight at North and TYPING AVAILABLE FOR RENT expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Join your fellow geeks and sport McCORMICK'S South Dining Halls 287-4082 Call Barbara and Joe anytime. your Engineering sweatshirts next Tonight and tomorrow at 
GRAD. WEEKEND (800) 253-8086. Wednesday! · FRIDAY Saint Mary's. Alter then, RESUMES..PROFESSIONAL BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY call Jay x1951 or Kurt x1954 QUALITY. CALL 272-5667. 219-291-7153. Resumes .... Prolessional quality HEY FARLEY!! I To all ENGL 491A warriors: "All to get a shirt. Only $8.001 
272-5667. (Tom Williams) ANYTHING GOES For Only $1011 wars are boyish and are fought by "''ATTENTION SMC'"" 3 Bedroom House Who Are You Kidding??? boys." words to live (and die) by ..... RIGHT TO LIFE MEETING: If anyone would like to purchase a Close to Campus JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS Love, TODAY 9:00 pm Montgomery St. Mary's class ring, I transferred $555 Month + Deposit "PREPARING FOR AND The Men of KEENAN HALL FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY Room, LaFortun~lcers lor next alter purchasing mine and would Ten Month Lease PLANNING YOUR JOB SEARCH" CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. year, Pro-Life Week, Ultrasound like to sell ill It's like brand 232-3616 PRESENTATION BY PAUL movie (II you missed Sheri Richard) new-and cheaper than the regular REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND ADOPTION: Happily married loving The TUTUS ARE COMING !IIIII selling price! Give me a call, I TIME IS RUNNING OUT -PLACEMENT SERVICES. couple wish to adopt. We promise The TUTUS ARE COMING !IIIII graduate soon! Thanks! Julie Call before the BEST houses are 7:00P.M. 127 NIEUWLAND a line education. financial security, Are you excited? 273-9442 gone 233-994 7. SCIENCE HALL. TONIGHT. ALL and the best of all our hearts. 
WELCOME. Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Five Guys Who Aren't Afraid to Central America Week EASY LIVING '91-'92 yr. Call Tom and Debbie collect 212-Wear Tutus While Playing WAKE IT 3 great student houses. 866-8315. Basketball: We're in it lor the SHAKE IT Central America Lunch 234-3831 or 288-5653 JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS, chicks. "PREPARING FOR AND ALUMNI DAWGS: Thursday, March 21, CSC Available. 2 Student Rental Homes PLANNING YOUR JOB SEARCH" CHRONIC DESIRE Get ready to wag your tails and lor 1991-1992 school year. Call PRESENTATION BY PAUL Looking for WATERFRONT shake your bones this Saturday. 11:30-1:30 $3.00 232-5411 (9 A.M to 12 and 2 P.M. to REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND McCORMICKS • FRIDAY • 3/22 PROPERTY, far away from ancient 
5 P.M. Monday thru Friday). PLACEMENT SERVICES . Egypt. Need by 4/20. THE IRISH WAKE -authentic central american food 7:00P.M. 127 NIEUWLAND ALUMNI HALL'S -visiting El Salvadoran students will TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES SCIENCE HALL. TONIGHT. ALL JESTER Coming soon to a bookstore MARCH MADNESS discuss their country and its FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE WELCOME. IS PLAYING TWICE THIS SAT., near you...DEATH OF A struggles IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER MARCH 23rd ... MUSICOLOGISTIIIIIIIII (First 
3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS. 5:15 ON FIELDHOUSE MALL printing epigonic series only) -NORTH OF NO 2773097 "PREPARING FOR AND AND
LOST/FOUND I 
PLANNING YOUR JOB SEARCH". 10:00 AT CLUB 23 Melissa, PRESENTATION BY PAUL IF YOU DON'T CATCH THEM ONE Rich, Thanx lor working tonight!! I hope REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND OF THESE TIMES, YOU'RE A I hope you're having fun working II you brought the '1orbidden fruit" (or PLACEMENT SERVICES. FISH MONGER!! I Congratulations on your drink as the case is. Have a banner 
IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOME! 7:00P.M. 127 NIEUWLAND LOVE, promotion!!! Don't get too drunk at weekend. later­3 BDRM HOME FOR SALE BY SCIENCE HALL. TONIGHT. ALL JESTER The Wake, I might be tempted to love, The production goddess OWNER. FIREPLACE, CiA, FMRM WELCOME. take advantage of you. W/BAR. MOVE-IN COND. 15 MIN SENIOR8-SENIOR8-SENIORS WALK FROM NO. APPT ONLY. Ill PROFESSORS ... Ill 234-8116, EVE. FREE AEROBICS CLASSES IT'S ST. PATRICK'S DAY AT 
STEPAN CENTER ARE YOU TOURING THE WORLD Toddles, Hope you got a date lor 
Tandy 1000EX/IBM compaV BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S ON A FULBRIGHT? ARE YOU the wake. I would be devasted if Found: Ten-Speed Bicycle outside 5.25" int dr/3.5" ext dr/color w/ NO Senior Kris Tortorella GOING TO BERMUDA? ARE YOU you didn't come. You know how ali the Architecture Bldg. mntr/Deskmate prgm + others/ Open to all stud. & faculty FRIDAY MARCH 22, 1991 JUST GOING AWAY THIS the women just rip their clothes off Call Tom H. at 289-7925 or come blank 3.5" disks. $500 or B.O. 12:15-1:15 every MWF SUMMER? WORRIED ABOUT for you. You're the fastest man lind me in the architecture building. Connie X7177 Starting Wed. 20th March $3 -24 OZ PARTY CUPS THE HOUSE? around. 
FILL 'EM ALL NIGHT FOR $.75 RESPONSIBLE UNDERGRAD IS Love, ROUND TRIP TICKET 91 GRADS: MOVING TO DC? DISCOUNT AT THE DOOR IF YOU LOOKING TO TAKE CARE OF An adoring fan 
llost my I D. If you have found it, TO BOSTON Need roommate? Call David BRING YOUR CUP FROM LAST YOUR HOUSE WHILE FLUNKING please return it to me. I am very lost FOR EASTER (NO '90) 217-753-1641. TIME ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IN THE Bubbles, I'm going to submit your without ~. I had all of my ID in a blue SUMMER SESSION. NO NEED famous quote to viewpoint. The NO holder. My name is Comalita 3-28 to 4-1 SENIORS-SENIORS--SENIORS TO WORRY THIS SUMMER! CALL one..(it's better to ... ) Haysbert. You can reach me at the must be male CONDO FOR SALE ANYTIME...283-3470 ... PLEASE --------------., 1#3270. 277-9366 OAKHILL CONDOMINIUMS LEAVE A MESSAGE IF GONE! 
Edited lor your viewing CAN FURNISH "CHARACTER" HELP MEl LOst 10. Please call Eat your Easter Candy at 4 bedroom & 3 bath Gaaators REFERENCES UPON REQUEST. 
~A
..~.: ... 

3270 If you have found it. All of my Home!! ail appliances Kappa Delta Laaadies a.k.a. Zetas ID was in Blue NO plastic case. I'm Round-trip USAIR tickets lor pool/clubhouse -NOT! lost without it. Comalita M. Haysbert Philadelphia lor sale 1/2 mile from campus Tiki Quotes from the NO Cycling 
~~ 

Leave: Thurs./Return: Mon. $78,000 T.T.G.I Team's road trip to the Reasonable!! The 4 way love train -Burns' Missouri stage race (March 
PATfitS

WANTED 
Call Sally x3783 Greg-Nancy LaVigne California King 9-10): 
DO YOURSELF A FLAVO/l 
... G._ ..... ...__ ..

(314) 965-0480 Please, I'll get 50 bucks II "I could've gotten a great set 
....... _ 

ACCENT ON FUN! Coed, INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Ariel of golf clubs instead of that sleepaway camp in Massachusetts Buying a car? Good rates. Call me NEED A JOB FOR NEXT YEAR??! Cafe Risque bike." 
::>inne• for 2 

seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI, lor a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Student Activities has Boioioizzz "Rule #1: NO POOFTERS." 
----------­
$899 ?,".:'

lifeguard, tennis, arts & crafts, all Office near campus. positions available lor Inch long nips "That chick looked at me like 
.. 

land & water sports, fitness, LaFortune Building Managers He says 8, we say 4 I was from outer space or 
P•c.k •n'f cwo Gournwr Sn.dw.c.ha, rwu U.rdcn Sat••· plw ynut c.ho1c.c: oi

gymnastics, piano/play lor shows, 286-IBM compatible AT, tram, 30 Stepan Building Managers 10,10, she's a 10 something." 
french Fr.-or Onu~n H.rnc• •nd 2 drama, judo, dance, archery, mgb. hd+20 mgb. hd (not information Desk C'mon we'll never see you again "The Black Crowes and Coca­
explratlt,'~' Jili'.-3-31-91

photography, computers, model installed)+2400b modem+ high Gorch Games Room U ofF or bust Cola-it's a Southern thing." 
........... 

rocketry, guitar. radio, video, density drive+lots of installed 24-Hr Lounge Monitors Budddyyy "This race is gonna be one big 
Sundae 

yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, software+ introduction to MS-Dos. Sound Technicians Turn and Burn baby attack of the glazed-doughnut 
Bvy any •••• hmdac and
99t

woodwork, AN. In excellent condltions.v$1200 Theodore's Monitors & DJs 3 smickers don't compare monsters from hell." 
r.ciha 1 ~one cJ the .....~q.r90c.

6/23-8/26. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Call alter ?p.m. 232-3330 Stop by Dooley Room 2 pot heads and a brown eyed girl "That was a nice wheelie you 
expiration date ~-31-91 Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY 1st Floor LaFortune on A bang up day in the backcountry did at the finish line." 
10707. 800-955-CAMP. Thurs., March 21 5-7pm Razzles lor tongue "I've goI my Coca-Co a I and my
TICKETS 
tor details & application. Wake up & get out of the car box of swiss cake rolls SUMMER JOBS DIE, DIE, DIE!! -I'm set." 
GUATEMALAN

ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS ••NEED EXTRA GRADUATION" GOOEY,GOOEY,GOOEYII "Yeah, I dropped, but I got a PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS •••••• TICKETS •••••• SUPER SLIDE SHOW !II Thank God lor the missing light beer, and you didn't." 
IMPORTS 

ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR WILL PAY $$$ FOR ANYONE Harry Birmingham, Phil Macrackin, "Hey, guys, look-toe cramp." 
University of Notre Dame 

LAKE PLACID. CALL NOT USING THEIRS Embarrass your enemies! Mike Hunt "Why are y'all here instead of 
LaFortune Student Center

1-800-343-8373. CALL JOHN 289-9654. Embarrass your friends! One eye pasted shut! being In Florida or Embarrass yourself! Butta Bing, Butta Bang! something?" 
Sorfn Room 

EARN $300/$500 PER WEEK FiLA and T-Buzz, we missed you "All present must partake of 
March 18-22 

READING BOOKS AT HOME. '$$$$$ Sumbit pictures lor the boizz the swiss cake roll. Thus I 
10Rm-5nm

1-615-473-7440 EXT. B SENIORS biggest slide show of the Bill. the anal retentive brother decree." Need One Grad. Tix year to THE BOX at the Miami Cheerleaders "I should've been doin' this my '"ATTENTION JUNIORS"" Call Kim x2669 information desk in Florida Gators whole life." 
Purses, hats, belts, 

NEED A ROOMATE FOR NEXT $$$$$ LaFortune before MARCH 28. BANG !II "I GOTTA HEAR SOME CROWESII 
vests, other eccessorles, 

SCHOOL YEAR AT CASTLE Include name, phone, and CRANK UP THE CROWESII" 
and tradit1onel Guetemelen

POINTIII CALL DOUG AT X2051 address on the back. "I can't believe I got hit by a 
Prima-frisbee." 
clothing and weaving.

PERSONALS 
BE A PART OF IT! l hate you mostestl "Not too damn bad lor a 
A ~ or Sales goes beck 

Needed: Ride to Fort Meyers­MODELS WANTED FOR couple of geeky math dudes." Naples. Florida area lor Easter ADVANCED HAIRCUITING "No, it's NOT a Cannondaie 
to Guatemolo to buy books 

break. Will help pay lor gas. Call CLASS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-NEEDED: Ride from St.Louis on HELP! Need ride to/from Des -It's a KLEIN." 
&. school supplies for 

Johanna, x2798. 1875. April !.Call Theresa at x3425. Moines/KG for break $ Diane x4902 -Love, LT 
children. 

-~----­
-Scoreboard 
Thursday, March 21, 1991 
NHL STANDINGS  
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division w L Pittsburgh 38 31 NY Rangers 34 28  T 5 12  Pts 81 80  GF 315 272  GA 279 240  Home 24-11-2 20-11-6  Away 14-20-3 14-17-6  Dlv 17-13-t t3-t2-5  

New Jersey  31  31  12  74  258  246  
Philadelphia  32  33  9  73  237  243  
Washington  33  34  6  72  235  243  
NY Islanders  23  41  10  56  210  270  

Adams Division y-Boston 41 23 10 92 270 243 x-Montreal 37 29 10 84 262 237 x-Buffalo 28 29 17 73 265 257 x-Hartford 31 34 10 72 222 250 Quebec 14 48 t2 40 211 332 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norris Division 

w L T Pts GF GA x-Chicago 45 22 6 96 257 192 x-St. Louis 41 22 11 93 288 240 x-Detroit 33 34 8 74 260 274 x-Minnesota 26 34 14 66 239 244 Tnronto 21 44 9 51 223 300 
Smythe Division x-Calgary 43 24 7 93 316 238 x-Los Angeles 42 23 9 93 313 233 x-Edmonton 35 34 5 75 253 251 Vancouver 26 41 9 61 233 302 Winnipeg 25 40 11 61 251 276 
x-clinched playoff berth 
y-clinched division title 
Tuesday's Games 
Boston 1 , Hartford 1, tie 
Edmonton 7, Quebec 6, OT 
St. Louis 2, Washington 1 
New Jersey 5, Pittsburgh 4 Wednesday's Games Late Games Not Included 
Buffalo 3, Montreal 2, OT 
Toronto at Los Angeles, (n) 
Calgary at Vancouver, (n) 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Atlantic Dlvlalon 

w L Pet GB L10 x-Boston 50 18 .735 8-2 Philadelphia 37 29 .561 12 
5-5 N-York 34 33 .507 15 112 8-2 Washington 23 .354
42 25 112 1-9 N-Jersey 22 44 .333 27 3-7 Miami 
20 47 .299 29112 2-8 
Central Dlvlelon 
x-Chlcago 50 15 .769 

9-1 x-Detron 41 26 .612 10 4-6 Milwaukee 40 27 .597 11 5-5 Atlanta 37 .552
30 14 5-5 Indiana 33 34 .493 18 6-4 
Cleveland 23 42 .354 27 
4-6 Charlotte 19 46 .292 31 2-8 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Mid-at Dlvlelon 

w L Pet GB LtD x-Utah 43 22 .661 6-4 x-San Antonio 42 .656
22 112 6-4 Houston 41 24 .63t 2 9-t Dallas 24 41 .369 t9 3-7 Orlando 2t 43 .328 
2t 112 3-7 Mlnneaola 2t 44 .323 22 3-7 Denver t8 48 .273 
25 112 2-8 
Pacific Divlelon x-Portland 48 18 .727 

4-6 x-LA lakers 48 t9 .7t6 112 6-4 x-Phoenlx 46 20 .697 2 
9-1 Golden State 35 30 
.538 12 112 6-4 Seattle 31 34 .477 16 112 4-6 
LA Clippers 23 44 .343 25 112 
3-7 lost 2 16-16 7-28 19-23
Sacramento 18 .281

46 29 x-cHnched playoff berth 
Weclneeday'e Garnea Boston 102, Washington 81 Indiana 117, Mlaml107 N-Jersey 118, Minnesota 111, OT N-York 102, Cleveland 97 Philadelphia 107. Detroh 103 
FENCING RESULTS 
INDIVIDUAL MEN'S FOIL FINAL RESULTS 

1. 
Ben Atkins, Columbia (14-4) 

2. 
Noel Young, Notre Dame (13-4) 

3. 
James Borin, Yale (9-9) 

4. 
Lorin Thompson. North Carolina (11-8) 


5. 
Stephen Schroeder, Wayne State (14-2) 

6. 
Chris Maggos. Yale (14-3) 

7. 
Frank Osborn, Yale (9-7) 

8. 
Mark Pavese, Columbia (1 0-8) 

9. 
Ed Mufel, Penn State (13-2) 

10. 
Alan Weber, Penn (11-5) 

11. 
Nathan Ritter, Detroit (8-6) 

12. 
Mark Ellingson, Columbia (7-8) 

13. 
Phil Leary, Notre Dame (7-8) 

14. 
Art Glasgow, Navy (5-tO) t5. Glenn Schicker. Rutgers (4-tO) t6. Jeff Piper, Notre Dame (11-8) t7. Randall Skrabonja, Duke (7-6) t8. Razmig Boghikian, Detroit (3-9) t9. Brian Slebenist, Penn (4-9) 



20. Jason Narkiewicz, NYU (4-8) 22-9-7 9-22-5 t3-t4-5 17-13-6 15-20-3 11-t4-6 19-13-4 t4-21-2 t7-t2-3 14-17-6 9-24-4 t1-t7-4 
24-9-4 17-14-6 t6-8-4 21-12-4 t6-17-6 t3-t2-4 13-13-11 tS-16-6 11-11-7 18-16-5 13-18-5 9-t3-6 7-22-8 7-26-4 7-12-7 
Home Away Dlv 25-8-3 20-t4-3 17-7-3 2t-9-7 20-13-4 t5-1t-3 25-12-0 8-22-8 13-13-3 18-14-6 8-20-8 9-t4-5 14-21-3 7-23-6 8-17-2 
27-8-2 16-16-5 15-8-3 23-9-4 19-t4-5 t6-8-4 20-t3-3 t5-2t-2 t1-13-2 16-16-5 10-25-4 9-18-1 17-18-5 8-22-6 9-13-6 
Thursday's Games Quebec at Boston, 7:35 p.m. Washington at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. St. Louis at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. New Jersey at Chicago, 8:35 p.m. 
Friday's Games Toronto at Detro~. 7:35p.m. Minnesota at Washington, 8:05p.m. Winnipeg at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
Stresk Home Away Coni Won 1 30-5 20-13 29-12 Won 2 24-9 13-20 2!;-14 Won 2 17-18 17-15 23-20 Lost 3 1!;-t5 8-27 1!;-25 Won 1 17-17 !;-27 14-26 Lost 6 14-20 6-27 11-33 
Won 9 30-3 20-t2 32-8 Lost 1 26-8 1!;-18 27-16 Won 2 28-7 12-20 27-18 Lost 1 2!;-9 12-21 20-22 Won 1 23-10 10-24 20-20 Lost 2 1!;-17 8-25 14-25 lost 1 12-20 7-26 12-30 
Streak Home Away Coni Won 2 26-5 17-17 29-12 Won 1 26-6 16-16 28-15 Won 9 26-8 t5-t6 26-17 lost t t6-t8 8-23 14-26 lost 4 t6-t6 !;-27 t7-27 lost 2 t!;-t8 6-26 1!;-32 Lost 4 t!;-t9 3-29 10-32 
Won 
t 29-5 t9-13 29-t3 Lost t 26-6 22-t3 31-12 Won 3 2!;-6 21-14 27-14 Won 1 23-10 12-20 21-23 
Won 1 20-11 11-23 17-22 
3-7 Lost 2 17-14 1-32 12-26 
Chicago 129, Atlanta 107 Phoenix 110, Dallas 96 Utah 106, Denver 96 Seattle 114, LA lakers 106 Portland 100, LA Clippers 96 
21. 
Walter Flaschka, NYU (2-8) 

22. 
Anthony DuBose, Penn State (4-5) 

23. 
Steve Flores, Penn State (3-6) 

24. 
Jason Kerstein, Wisconsin (1-9) 

25. 
Joel Robinson, Cal State Long Beach (1-9) 

26. 
13avid Prather, UC-Santa Cruz (1-7) 

27. 
Leroy Thompson, St. John's (1-7) 


WOMEN'S TEAM QUALIFYING 
Quartertlnal team matches (number in parentheses indicates seed) Notre Dame (t) vs. Penn (8) Columbia (4) vs. Fairleigh Dickinson (5) 
Temple (3) vs. Yale (6) Penn State (2) vs. Wayne State (7) 
Semlflna team matches NO-Penn winner vs. Columbla-FDU winner Temple-Yale winner vs. PSU-WSU winner 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

• 
We're Having a Most ·excellent Party 
•

• For all Off-campus Students 
..DEAN & EDDIE'S OFF-CAMPUS ADVENTURE.. 
Saturday, March 23, 9:30pmTick-et Sales: $2 In advance md $3 at the door Tickets will be sold In the OC lo~eln Madeleva Hall or Contact TiffCI'ly@ 277 2for tickets 
~.-ou9ht to you &y 8q.t.nt nG.-y's off-cq.mpu.s commt.ttee Loeated ned door to Senor X.lly's 
MCC STANDINGS 

Softball  Baseball  
MCC Games  Overall  
W  L  T  PCT  w  L  T  PCT  w  
Evansville  0  0  0  .000  6  4  0  .600  Xavier  2  
Detroit  0  0  0  .000  8  7  0  .533  Butler  2  
Butler  0  0  0  .000  2  2  0  .500  ND  0  
ND  0  0  0  .000  5  t2  0  .294  Evansville  0  
Loyola Dayton Saint Louis  0 0 0  0 0 0  0 0 0  .000 .000 .000  3 0 0  7 4 5  0 0 0  .300 .000 .000  Detroit Dayton Saint Louis  0 0 0  

IRISH BASEBALL STATISTICS 
Includes t7 Games (t2 W, 5 L) 
IIAIIIti!i SIAIISII~S 

Player BA G/ AB R H RBI 2B 3B HR SBI BB SO SLUG OBP 
Danapilis  .348  t?/17  66  17  23  t5  7  1  2  7r1  tO  17  .576  .519  
Mee  .324  14111  37  7  t2  6  2  0  0  112  7  4  .378  .404  
Layson  .32t  t7116  53  11  17  9  3  0  t  416  9  8  .434  .455  
Jacobs  .298  t7116  57  t5  17  t2  4  0  5  4/6  t3  t9  .632  .432  
Maisano  .286  16113  49  8  t4  t9  4  0  3  1/1  It  t4  .551  .450  
Counsell  .28t  t7117  64  11  t8  7  3  t  0  317  9  4  .359  .448  
Leahy  .250  513  8  0  2  1  t  0  0  0/0  3  4  .375  .545  
Coss  .239  t?/13  46  t2  It  3  4  0  0  1/t  3  6  .326  .393  
Haas  .233  t5110  30  5  7  6  3  0  t  013  6  7  .433  .405  
Bautch  .222  t4114  36  tO  8  4  0  0  0  5f7  7  9  .222  .429  
Smith  .2t6  16/11  37  8  8  7  0  0  3  4/5  2  12  .459  .333  
Krall  .t43  712  7  t  1  0  t  0  0  010  0  2  .286  .286  
Hartwell  .t38  t2/8  29  8  4  t  0  t  0  212  9  11  .207  .342  
Binkiewicz  .111  t0/3  9  0  t  0  0  0  0  0/0  8  5  .t1t  .556  
Rooney  .000  510  0  4  0  0  0  0  0  tl2  0  0  .000  .000  
Conway  .000  tiO  0  t  0  0  0  0  0  011  0  0  .000  .000  
Mw::tiD~  QQ!l  l/ll  l  Q  Q  Q  Q  Q  Q  !ll!l  Q  Q  QQQ  QQQ  
Totals  .270  t?/17  529  t18  143  90  32  3  t5  33/50  97  t22  .427  .433  
~II~Hiti!i  SIAIISII~S  
Eill:llll[  EBA  GlaS  '1:/.  L  EQI  SY  00  I~  tl  B  EB  BB  SQ  
Hartvigson  0.00  tiO  0  0  .000  0  0  0.0  t  0  0  0  0  
Michalak  2.70  613  2  0  1.00  0  t  26.7  t9  t3  8  t3  20  
Price  3.00  512  2  1  .667  1  2  21.0  2t  11  7  t2  t8  
Leahy  3.20  4/4  3  0  1.00  0  t  25.3  16  9  9  12  t6  
Sinnes  4.85  515  1  0  1.00  0  0  26.0  28  18  t4  t5  25  
Walania  5.32  713  3  2  .600  1  0  23.7  27  16  t4  11  7  
Livorsi  5.65  810  1  t  .500  2  0  14.3  11  9  9  t5  2  
!;;2aoagili~  §Z5  :l/ll  Q  l  QQQ  l  Q  ~Q  5  3  3  l  ~  
Totals  4.09  t7/17  t2  5  .706  5  4  141.0  t28  79  64  79  92  
TRANSACTIONS  
BASEBALL  BASKETBALL  

COMM ISS lONER'S OFFICE-Placed National Baaketball Aaaoclation Philadelphia outfielder Lenny Dykstra on probation NEW JERSEY NETS-Placed Chris Dudley, lor one year lor gambling activ~y. center, on the Injured list. Activated Kurk Lee, lor­American League ward, from the Injured list. 
CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Optioned lee Stevens, World Baaketball League llrst baseman-outllelder; Mark Davis, outfielder; FLORIDA JADES-Acquired the rights to James Gary DISarclna and Chris Cron, lnllelders; and Blackmon and Haywoode Workman, guards, and Mike Erb, p~cher, to Edmonton ol the Pacillc Coast Winston Morgan and Rick Calloway, forwards. League. Sent Kyle Abbott, Chris Beasley, Randy YOUNGSTOWN PRIDE-Traded the rights to Bockus, Tim Burcham and Rafael Montalvo, phch­Willie Bland, forward, and Ke~h Smart, guard, to ers, and Ruben Amaro, Jr. and Dan Grunhard, out­the Halilax Windjammers lor the rights to Darryl llelders, to their minor-league camp lor reassign­Johnson, guard. ment. HALIFAX WINDJAMMERS-Acquired the rights 
DETROIT TIGERS-Sent David Haas, Mike to Mitt Newton, Steven Bardo, Marty Simmons, and Munoz and Eric Stone, pitchers; Scott Livingstone, lenzie Howell, forwards. lnllelder; and Rich Rowland, catcher, to Toledo ol the International league. Sent Rudy Pemberton, FOOTBALL outfielder, to London ol the Eastern League. Sent National Football League Mile Dahon, p~cher, and Johnny Paredes, lnllelder, DALLAS COWBOYS-Agreed to terms with to their minor league complex lor reassignment. AHredo Roberts, tight end, and Odie Harris, delen­
MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Sent Narciso Elvira, sive back. Cal Eldred, James Austin, Jim Davina, Chris PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Signed Dennis George, Doug Henry and Chris Johnson, p~chers, McKnight, offensive lineman and Dave Nilsson, catcher, to their minor league Canadian Football League camp lor reassignment. OTIAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Re-signed David 
MINNESOTA TWINS-Sent Willie Banks and Conrad, fullback, to a three-contract. Park Plnman, phchers, to Portland of the Pacillc Coast League. Sent Jack Savage, p~cher, and HOCKEY Danny Schaeffer, catchar, to their minor league National Hockey League 
camp lor reassignment. HARTFORD WHALERS-Sent Ross McKay, National League goaltender, to Sprlnglleld of the American Hockey 
CINCINNATI REDS-Sent Steve Foster, Bill League. Risley, Mo Sanford and Ross Powell, pitchers; Glenn Sutko and Dan Wilson, catchers; and Denny OLYMPICS Gonzales, inllelder, to their minor league camp lor United Statea Olympic Committee 
reassignment. USOC---Named Frank Zang lnlormation special­South Atlantic League Ist and publications manager. SUMTER FLYERS-Named Steve Seby direc­tor ol broadcasting. 
MCC Games Overall L T PCT w L T PCT 2 0 .500 7 8 0 .467 2 0 .500 3 5 0 .375 
0 0 .000 12 5 0 .706 
0 0 .000 7 3 t .682 
0 0 .000 4 4 0 .500 
0 0 .000 4 6 t .409 
0 0 .000 5 11 0 .3t3 
EIELI:!Iti!i SIAIISII~S 

~m B:l A E Of ~QI 
Dana pi lis 28 0 0 0 1.000 
Mee 34 t2 0 1 t.OOO 
Layson 22 39 1 5 .984 
Jacobs t46 6 3 4 .981 
Maisano 0 0 0 0 t.OOO 
Counsell t2 38 7 7 .877 
Leahy 6 2 0 0 1.000 
Coss t4 4t 8 3 .873 
Haas 59 5 t 0 .985 
Bautch 42 1 t 0 .977 
Smith t5 0 0 0 t.OOO 
Krall t3 t 0 0 1.000 
Hartwell 19 2 0 0 t.OOO 
Binkiewicz 9 t 0 1 1.000 
Rooney 0 0 0 0 .000 
Conway 0 0 0 0 .000 
Sinnes 2 t t 0 .750 
Michalak 0 6 t 0 .857 
Livorsi t 3 0 0 1.000 
Price 0 1 0 0 t.OOO 
Martinez 0 0 0 0 .000 
Walania t 6 t 0 .875 
t:tafrliQsgc Q Q Q Q QQ!l 
Totals 423 t65 24 9 .96t 
NCAA BASEBALL RANKINGS 
Baseball America's Top 25 
t8 March t99t 
t . Florida State 
2. Southern Cal 
3. 
Louisiana State 

4. 
Stanford 


5. Miami (Fl) 
6. Texas 
7. 
Pepperdine 

8. 
Creighton 

9. 
Hawaii tO. Ohio State 1t. Oklahoma State t2. Arizona State 


13. 
Wichita State 

14. 
Georgia Tech 

15. 
Clemson t6. Long Beach State t7. Texas A&M t8. Notre Dame t9. Michigan 


20. Cal State Northridge 2t. Arkansas 
22. Tulane 
23. 
Texas Tech 

24. 
Oklahoma 

25. 
N.C. State 


Notre Dame opponents in italics 
SOFTBALL BOX 

Falcons 7, Irish 0 Notre Dame 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 3 Bowling Green 2 50 0 0 0 X 7 8 0 Linn (LP), Alfford (2) and Folsom. Record (WP. 2-4) and leis 
Falcons 4, Irish 2 
Notre Dame 1 0 0 0 t 0 0 2 8 
Bowling Green 0 0 0 1 0 3 X 4 8 
Alvarez. Linn (5, LP) and Folsom. Simmons, 
Unterbrink (4), Record (5, WP 3-4) and Leis. 

Yearbook Positions Now Available 
Positions for the 1991-1992 Dome Staff are now being accepted. 
Open Positions include: 
Editor-in-Chief, All Section Editors, Photographers and Section Staff Members 
Get involved in the Dome during the Sesquicentennial Year! 
Applications available at the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, are due by Friday March 22, 1991. 
----------------------------------------· 
Thursday, March 21, 1991 The Observer 


Doing Reggae Anthems like: 
"NO WOMAN, NO CRY" "RASTAMAN VIBRATION" "EXODUS" and more! 
"Few groups in the history of popular music have been able to project and dominate a music form as fully as the now legendary Wailers." 
Reggae World Magazine 
Plus Special Guests ... Also from Jamaica, also Jammin• 


Special Notre Dame I St. Mary•s 
STUDENT DISCOUNT TICKETS ONLY $10.00 
Public Ticket Price: $14.00 Doors Open 7:00pm-Music starts 8:00pm 
TICKETS ON SALE TODAY AT THESE LOCATIONS: 
Notre Dame St. Mary's Track's Records TICKS~v.3ST£:A. LaFortune Student Center O'Laughlln Auditorium 1931 Edison Road 
· lodudlng Konu -IS.C. U Af'" 
Box Office & Info Desk Box Office ~d South Bend 
(219)424-1811 
~----------------------------------.....~--------------------------------------~ 
--·-·-1 
page 17 

-
Commissioner puts Dykstra on 1-year probation 
NEW YORK (AP) Philadelphia Phillies outfielder Lenny Dykstra was placed on one year's probation Wednesday by commissioner Fay Vincent because of his gambling activities. 
Dykstra, who last week testi­fied to losing $78,000 during poker games in Mississippi, must report to the commis­sioner's office on a regular ba­sis during the probationary pe­riod. Further gambling activity will result in more severe disci­pline, the commissioner said. 
"Mr. Dykstra fully cooperated with representatives of the commissioner's office," Vincent said in a statement released by his office. "He exhibited re­morse and acknowledged that he had injured baseball and damaged his own reputation. He gave me his full assurance he would not engage in such conduct again." 
Dykstra, 28, refused to dis­cuss the matter before and after the Phillies exhibition game against the Los Angeles Dodgers at Vero Beach, Fla. 
"It's over with" he said before 
leaving the clubhouse. 
Dykstra received a letter from the commissioner's office outlining the probation and on Wednesday signed an agree­ment accepting the penalty. He could have filed a grievance, forcing the matter before arbi­trator George Nicolau. 
"I find the letter to be very ambiguous," said Dykstra's agent, Alan Meersand. "It is not clear in its content and there seems to be a number of things to be worked out before it's clear what it means. That will be done in the next few weeks." 
Meersand and Dysktra's lawyer, Stephen Solomon, con­ferred with the outfielder and Eugene Orza. the associate general counsel of the Major League Baseball Players Association, before deciding to accept the penalty. 
"Dykstra has signed the agreement with the commis­sioner's office and as far as he's concerned, it's over," Solomon said later. 
In Clearwater, the Phillies is­sued a statement in which Dykstra was quoted as saying: ''I'm sorry it happened. I'm sorry if any fans got hurt. I learned my lesson." 
Phillies owner Bill Giles said the team would not protest Wednesday's action. 
"I respect the commissioner's decision," Giles said. ''I'm happy the case is closed." 
Phillies manager Nick L<'yva had a similar reaction. 
"I guess we can live with that if that ends it," he said. "Lenny knows what he has to do now and he 'II abide by it." 
Vincent said other cases of personnel other than players involved in gambling have come before him in the past year. In each instance, the commissioner said, the individual was cooperative and remorseful and placed on probation for one year. 
Those people have not been identified by the commis­sioner's office. Baseball officials said they made the Dykstra decision public only because of his testimony in the Oxford, Miss. trial. 
Herbert Kelso, the alleged organizer of the poker games, was found not guilty by a U.S. District Court jury. 
~-------------~----­
~------~­
Softball loses two games 
page 18

-
Observer Staff Report 

BOWLING GREEN, Ohio-The Bowling Green State University women's softball team ran its winning streak to three games with a doubleheader sweep of Notre Dame Wednesday at the BGSU Softball Field. 
The Falcons, who took the first game by a 7-0 count and carne back to post a 4-2 win in the nightcap, improved to 5-7 on the season, while the Fighting Irish slipped to 5-12. 
Junior hurler Jody Record went the distance in the first game, striking out four while not walking a batter. Only one Notre Dame runner advanced past second base in the contest. 
The Falcons scored all seven of their runs in the first two in­nings. Catcher Jeni Leis drove in one run on a first inning double, while Bowling Green, with the help of two Notre Dame errors, scored five sec­ond inning runs on three hits. Becky Bailey and Karen Appelbaum had two hits apiece for the Falcons. 
The Falcons came back from a 2-1 deficit inthe second game with a three-run sixth inning to capture the victory. Leftfielder Kim Snyder doubled horne Bowling Green's final run of the inning after an Irish error led to the first two runs in the frame. Julie Moss had two hits for the Falcons. 
Record picked up the win in relief for Bowling Green as she pitched the final 2 2/3 innings and retiring the last six batters she faced. 
Notre Dame had beaten the Falcons 4-2 last Friday in the Indiana State tournament. The Irish host their season horne opener this Friday at 3:30 p.m. against Loyola. 
The Observer Thursday, March 21, 1991 
Fencers doing well at NCAA's: Young finishes 2nd, women earn top spot 
Special to The Observer 
The first day of the NCAA fencing championships began on a good note for Notre Dame, with the men foilists placing fairly well in the individual competition, while the women earned the top seed in the round of eight.' 
Sophomore Noel Young, who won the Australian National Fencing Championships in 1988, fenced well en route to a second-place finish in the NCAA's. The finish, in addition to being a spot higher than last year, earns All-American honors for Young. 
Senior captain Phil Leary also improved on last year's per­formance, placing 13th in the field, while sophomore Jeff 

Noel Young 
Piper repeated his 16th-place finish from last season. The male foilists will continue fenc­ing on Friday in the team com­petition. 
The Irish women foilists moved a step closer to the na­tional championship with an impressive performance yester­day. They defeated Stanford 9-3 and Yale 9-5 to earn the top seed going into the final rounds. 
Senior Anne Barreda and ju­nior Heidi Piper were perfect in yesterday's action, both compil­ing 6-0 records in the two vic­tories. The women will continue the team matches today. 
The day's action for the men will consist of the individual sabre competition. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIAL PRCI;RAMs 
~~ 

0American Heart Association 
NIT 

continued from page 24 third-place team in the Metro Conference is the fourth seed in the NIT. 6-0 freshman Gwen Doyle (17.3, 8.5), the Metro's Freshman of the Year and a first-team All-Metro selection, and 6-0 Nell Knox (12.6, 5.6) are the Cardinals' key players. •KANSAS (18-12)-The fifth­seeded Jayhawks almost snuck into the NCAA tournament, making the championship game of the Big Eight tournament before losing to Oklahoma State. Four players, led by Stacy Truitt (10.3 ppg) and Terrilyn Johnson (10.0, 9.6), average 
over nine points per game. 

•HOUSTON (19-10)-Four starters average in double fig­ures for the sixth-seeded Cou­gars. 5-7 junior LaShawn John­son (14.6 ppg) leads a balanced attack which had nine players playing at least 15 minutes a game. 
•INDIANA (16-12)-The sev­enth-seeded Hoosiers are the only NIT participant Notre Dame faced in the regular sea­son, losing to Indiana 79-7 6 at the Joyce ACC. Pam Owens (13.8, 7.9) and Zan Jeffries (13.2, 8.0), both 5-11 seniors, form a formidable one-two punch inside. 
For the Irish, three starters average in double figures: two-time MCC Player of the Year Karen Robinson (16.4 ppg, 5.1 apg), All-MCC performer Davis 
(13.8 ppg, 6.2 rpg, 59.4 FG%) and junior Margaret Nowlin (10.4, 7.5). 
Sophomore Coquese Wash­ington (8.9 ppg, 5.2 apg, 2.7 steals), a second-team All-MCC member, and senior Sara Liebscher (8.6 ppg) rounds out the starting lineup. Freshmen Kristin Knapp (6.9, 3.8) and Sherri Orlosky (3.2 ppg) are the first players off the bench for Notre Dame. 
ftAmericanHeart'Y'Association 

SENIOR FORMAl 
1991 " Sign up for rooms, tables, 
flowers, and activities: March 25 
from 6-9 
in the LeMans Lobby· <' and March 26 
from 6-9 ' at Theodore's 
• 
~ 
• 


~) 
0 


INFORMATION DESK LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER *Deadline for applications is March 29* SENIOR FORMAL TUXEDO RENTALS FROM LOUIE'S TUX SHOP  CULTURAL CALENDAR 1990•1991 SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE  
PRICES: Black Classic* ................. $39.9SnAx Designer Tuxedos* ............. $52.50+ TAx Shoes ........................ $ 8.50+ TAx *Includes coat, trousers, shirt, tie, cummerbund, jewelry and suspenders. PAYMENT: Partial or. full payment may be made. (A $15.00 minimum deposit is required at the time of fitting). We accept cash, VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover and personal checks. WHEN: Tuesday, March 26 6:00-9:00pm WHERE: LaFortune Student Center in Theodore's "WE MAKE l'IEONT~" THf EV •  TOMORROW, 8 P.M., CHURCH OF OUR LADY OF LORETIO The South Bend Chamber Singers Nancy Menk, music director A Concert of Sacred Music ADMISSION FREE•DONATION REQUESTED In Concert Loretta Robinson, soprano Jeffrey Jacob, piano SPECIAL $2 "RUSH" TICKETS FOR SM'S-ND COMMUNITY MEMBERS ., MARCH 25, 7:30P.M.• NATIONAL TOURING PRODUCfiON Forbidden Broadway A hilarious spoofofthe stage's biggest shows and stars TICKETS: $13/$11 All performances in O'Laughlin Auditorium unless noted. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, in O'Laughlin, Mon.-Fri., 10-4. Visa/MasterCard: 284-4626. For updated program information, call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline: 674-0900, category 1740. I  

----~-----------~~ -~-~---~--------~ 
Thursday, March 21, 1991 The Observer page 19 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
No holiday for MLK, no Super Bowl, NFL ­
•Navy, Air Force, and Army ROTC will sponsor a 5K run on March 24 at Stepan Center at noon. Registration is at 11 a.m., 
tells Arizona; fans and officials react 
and the entry donation is $3.00. All proceeds go to financially  
troubled families of servicemen in the gulf.  PHOENIX (AP) ­Government  "Those who throw rocks in  But it will mean that many  
officials and fans expressed  glass houses had better look at  individuals who otherwise  
•The Irish Heartlites fun runs are coming up April 11th. There  their displeasure and disap­ yourself," DeConcini said.  would have seen Arizona now  
will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Students and staff should start training  pointment with the NFL own­ He added, "I was disap­ won't, and that represents a  
now.  ers' decision to move the 1993  pointed, of course, that a dou­ loss "that can't be quantified in  
Super Bowl from Sun Devil  ble standard has been applied.  dollars," he said.  
•Notre Dame/Saint Mary's sailing team: We will be starting  Stadium to the Rose Bowl.  It's all right for the NFL not to  Newly elected Gov. Fife  
mandatory practices Monday, March 18, for all members who  Late Tuesday, NFL owners  honor Dr. King, but it's not all  Symington said, "It's an unfor­ 
would like to participate in the Freshman Ice Breakers.  decided at their meeting in  right for Arizona. They say it's  tunate happenstance. I thought  
Practices will be held every day at 2:30 p.m., rain or shine. For  Hawaii to pull the 1993 game  not linked, but it's pretty clear  it was a great mistake to tie it  
more information, call Julie Garden at 284-5197.  from suburban Tempe because  to me that it's linked -they  to the Martin Luther King holi­ 
Arizona does not have a paid  didn't give it to us."  day. But that happened before I  
•Any teams interested in playing in the Bookstore Basketball  holiday honoring slain civil  DeConcini, who had sent a  was on the scene, so we'll just  
Hall of Fame game should submit their applications to the S.U.B.  rights leader Martin Luther  sharply worded letter to NFL  have to live with the result."  
secretary by friday, March 22.  King. The owners later  commissioner Paul Tagliabue,  Reportedly, it was  
awarded the game to Pasadena,  said the issue may have an ef­ Symington's discussion with  
•Night owls take a study break with NVA aerobics, every  Calif.  fect on the league.  Tagliabue that led to the  
Sunday in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Sign up in the NVA  "It is regrettable that, in not  "The NFL hasn't been any  "preliminary" selection of  
office now.  showing restraint earlier, the  leader in civil rights and  Phoenix as a site for the 1996  
league contributed to the con­ honoring Martin Luther King,"  game. 
•Scorekeepers are needed for the Bookstore Basketball  troversy in the state rather than  he said.  Former Gov. Evan Mecham,  
Tournament. Anyone who is interested should contact Shelley  aiding the effort to bring it to an  DeConcini said it appeared  who revoked a King holiday,  
Guilbaut at x2549.  end," Sen. John McCain, R­ the NFL was being hypocritical.  said the NFL is continuing to  
Ariz., said from Washington.  "I don't know why the NFL is  play politics in Arizona.  
•The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight at 7:00  "By injecting itself into the  telling us how to run our house  "The conditions are that we  
pm in the basement of Pangborn. Newcomers welcome! For  state's effort to resolve the  when they don't even have their  pass a paid Martin Luther King  
more information call Mark x 1606.  Martin Luther King holiday is­ own house in order. They ought  state holiday," Mecham said.  
sue, the NFL has muddled an  to apply the same rules to  "They're still involved in  
•Women's Bookstore basketball will have sign-ups on  effort that is Arizona's to re­ themselves."  Arizona politics. They have no  
Tuesday, March 26th from 6-9pm at the Sorin Room of La  solve alone, without outside in­ Yogi Hutsen, president of the  class at all."  
Fortune and the lobby of Haggar at St. Mary's.  terference."  Arizona Hotel and Motel  
Sen. Dennis DeConcini,  Association, called it "a  The loss of the game was not  
•Free Aerobics classes are offered in Stepan Center every  Arizona's other senator, said he  tremendous loss."  a surprise to Lamar Whitmer,  
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, from 12:15-1:15 pm. Classes  was very disappointed in the  "It won't ruin us," Hutsen  chairman of the Maricopa  
begin 3/20.  NFL.  said.  County Sports Authority.  

CJIAHLOTTE, N.C. (AP)-The Southeast Hegional has its top four sm~ds still playing, but one may just have a little more on the line for program pride. 
Arkansas. Indiana and Kansas have all tasted Final Four success in the last four seasons with the latter two leaving with championship tro­phiHs in 1987 and 1988. 
Alabama has been different. The Crimson Tide has been suc­cessful reaching this round of 16 for the fifth time in the last sHven years. 
"I'd thought you'd never ask," Alabama coach Wimp 
Alabama's rolling Tide hopes to drown the Razorbacks 
Arkansas center Oliver Miller thinks Alabama will try to slow injured himself slightly the tempo. Wednesday, aggravating a groin "I believe Wimp will do what­muscle, but Razorbacks officials ever it takes and we have to an­said he would play. Sanderson ticipate they will back it out if could face a problem with the they feel they can't run." he uncertain status of Robert said. "We played some teams in Horry and James Robinson due the conference this season to nagging injuries. which put the ball in the deep 
"James hasn't been allowed freeze, but I don't think they'll to practice very much the last do that. That's why you always three games since he injured prepare your team for what it his knee and Robert has been does best." bothered by a groin pull all Indiana and Kansas each season," Sanderson said. ''I'm know what the other does best concerned about whether they because the teams mirror each will be able to play." other. 
Robinson leads the Crimson Tide with 16 7 points per game Both teams score in the mid-in a reserve ro-le and Horry, 80s and feature tough aggres­suspended for the opening sive defenses which kept oppo­game of the SEC tournament nents under 70 points per for an "attitude problem," is the game. top rebounder at eight per game and will also be the in­"In basketball there is only so bounder against the Arkansas much you can do," Indiana pressure. coach Bob Knight said. "I've 
"If they put on their shoes enjoyed watching Kansas play and come out, I'm not going to and I don't enjoy watching consider them injured," many teams play because of my Richardson said, adding he scope of vision. 
Interested in staying and 
working Senior week: 
May 13 thru May 19. 
Work for catering-get paid plus room and board. 
Sign up by March 27 in order to stay in your own room. 
Sign up in the Catering Employment Office in the basement of South Dining Hall. 
Questions call 239-5449 
Sanderson said Wednesday as the media began asking about the inability to reach the re­gional finals. ''I'm very proud the basketball program at Alabama has reached the final 16 five times but you're all anxious for the story of why we haven't gone any farther. Well, we just have never been able to pull the surprise or the upset and most of the teams we have played have been one or two seeds and they've won." 
It will be the same for the Crimson Tide (23-9) this year as the No. 4 seed will face top­seeded Arkansas (33-3) on Thursday before second-seeded Indiana (29-4) meets Kansas (24-7). 
The Razorbacks have man­aged to score at a 100 points­per-game clip this season and Nolan Richardson's team has done it with the fullcourt pres­sure defense. 
"The main thing for us is to 
· beat the pressure," Sanderson said. "They forced 813 turnovers this season and only committed 500 themselves and that tells you a whole lot right there. They are a seasoned team and you don't win 33 games unless you are." 
r 
The Student Union Board & 
The Graduate Student Union Intellectual Life Committee 
present 

Dr. Celeste Colgan 
Deputy Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities 
AnAde<pate Core Curriculum & the Fu1ureof American ~mocracy 
7:00 PM Thursday, March 21 Annenburg Auditorium (Snite) 

! 
~te •tudent un;on 
r 

page 20 The Observer Thursday, March 21, 1991 
-
Notre Dame lacrosse team goes 1-2 on East Coast trip 
By MARK McGRATH 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team went on the road for spring break but didn't have quite the success it expected. The Irish managed a 13-7 victory against Radford, but lost 10-5 to Hofstra and 12-9 against Mt. St. Mary's. 
The first obstacle for the Irish was Hofstra. The Flying Dutchman were ranked 16th in the USILA preseason poll. Hofstra was looking to extend its streak of six straight season opening victories. 
The Irish opened the game strong. The first quarter was a display of transitional lacrosse. The Irish were able to control the high-powered attack of Hofstra. 
Hofstra struck first when All­American midfielder Mike Lausenslager tallied an unas­sisted goal at 5:34 of the first quarter. The Irish were able to continue their strong play and Brian Mayglothing scored his third goal of the season to end the first quarter. 
Hofstra exploded in the sec­ond quarter to make the score 5-l at the half. The spurt started when Hofstra cleared the ball on a beautiful play, and Andrew Carlson took advantage of the play by netting the first of three goals in his college debut. 
Another freshman, Domenic DiNardo, netted two of his three goals during this spurt. 
"We played a few bad min­utes." said Mayglothing. "Our mental breakdowns were the reason they (Hofstra) were able to score. They are a real disci­plined team and took advantage of the errors." 
"We were never really able to recover from the run," said Irish goaltender Chris Parent. 
Hofstra opened the second half where it left ofT. They ex­tended the lead to 8-1 before Mayglothing scored his second goal of the game at 7:03. The Flying Dutchman added one more to end the third quarter with a 9-2 lead and the game in control. 
The Irish went back to the form they had in the first quar­ter when they opened the fourth quarter with a quick goal from Mike Sullivan. The two teams battled for the next nine minutes until Carlson added his third goal for Hofstra to make the score 10-3. Sullivan re­sponded with his second goal and Brian Schirf added a goal to end the game. 
"We played well except for the mental errors in the second quarter," said Mayglothing. "I thought it was our best game of the road trip even though we lost." 
"I thought our performance was fairly impressive consider­ing their talent and that it was their season opener," said Parent. "I thought that fresh­man Bill Ahmuty was a key to keeping us in the game defen­sively." 

The Irish then went on the road again to Radford. The re­sult was a Notre Dame victory 13-7. 
The Irish opened the first half very strongly and ended the first half with a 9-1 lead. 
"We controlled the ball," said Mayglothing. "We were able to take advantage of our scoring opportunities." 
However, the Irish played down to the Radford's level during the second half. 
"We never came out of the locker room," said Mayglothing. "I was not pleased with our effort." 
"I thought we showed a lack of consistency," said Parent. "Maybe it was a result of our lead, but we must improve our play if we want to win the tougher games like Loyola." 
The final game of the road trip pitted the Irish against Mt. St. Mary's. The Irish struggled throughout and ended up losing 12-9. 
"We didn't know anything about them," said Mayglothing. "We didn't come to play and we "Our lack of consistency was The Irish (2-2) will be home can't expect to win with that our main problem," said this weekend when they meet attitude. Again, our mental er­Parent. "The fans were very vo­Loyola of Maryland. A preview rors were a problem and we ciferous. We appeared too re­will be in Friday's Observer. became frustrated." laxed at times." 

University of Tulsa fires head basketball coach 
TULSA, Okla. (AP) -Tulsa coach J.D. Barnett was fired Wednesday by an athletic direc­tor who cited declining fan support and drops in revenue from home games. 
"Over the past six years, a number of challenges have been presented to our Division I athletic programs," athletic director Rick Dickson said. "Among those, in particular with basketball, we've been challenged with declining fan participation, declining community support, a high turnover rate of student­athletes and a constant turnover among assistant coaches." 
Barnett, who took over when Nolan Richardson left for Arkansas, had a 106-75 record in six years at Tulsa. But the Hurricane failed to win a game in two NCAA tournament trips and two National Invitation Tournament games. 
"This has been a very devas­tating forty-eight hours for me and my family, there is no ques­tion about that," Barnett said. "No one ever wants to see their career end like this. But if this is the way it's to be, it's the way it's to be and I can't change other peoples thinking. I can just control mine the best way I can." 
Barnett, whose voice cracked with emotion at times, thanked the fans who had supported him. 
'Tm very proud of my pro­gram at TU," he said. "I have nothing to be ashamed of. I run an honest program. I run a program with integrity and I tried to give every day of my life for the past six years everything I have physically, emotionally and mentally to the University 

-
NEED A CHALLENGING, YET FUN JOB FOR NEXT YEAR?? Apply for a position working for the Student Activities Office Positions available for: LaFortune Builing Managers Stepan Building Managers Games Room Attendants Information Desk Attendants Sound Technicians Office Assistants 24 Hour Lounge Monitors Theodore's Room Monitors Theodore's DJ 
Stop by the DOOLEY ROOM on THURSDAY, MARCH 21 for job descriptions, information,and applications from 5pm-7pm. Applications are also available to be picked up at the LaFortune Information Desk through March 25. All applications should be submitted to Student Activities by Wednesday, March 
27. 

of Tulsa and the players who played for me." 
Dickson said the program failed to garner the money needed by a school Tulsa's size, ever since Barnett's hiring in 1985. 
"Obviously there were many considerations beside the won­loss column and the financial coffers of the athletic depart­ment," he said. "The University of Tulsa basketball program has really failed to realize the type of revenues that we not only projected but must have within our athletic department." 
Dickson said he, university president Robert Donaldson and Barnett met Tuesday in a tempered conference, during which he asked Barnett to re­sign. Dickson declined to dis­cuss Barnett's existing contract except to say no settlement has been reached. Barnett has three years left on the contract. 
Barnett's record at Tulsa is the third best in school history, but he has been compared to Richardson since the day he started. 
Richardson used an uptempo, free-wheeling style in his five years. 
Concentration in 
Philosophy, Politics and Economics 
PPE is an interdisciplinary concentration for students majoring in the Philosophy, Government or Economics departments. The concentration consists of a core seminar .·entitled JUSTICE SEMINAR, three one credit colloquia taken over three semesters, and three other courses chosen from a concentration list. Limited to 25 students per year, PPE stresses careful reading, discussion and writing. PPE is concerned with exploring the theoretical issues which connect these three disciplines. 
PPE Committee 
Neil Delany-Dept. of Philosophy 
E.A. Goerner-Dept. of Government David O'Connor-Dept. of Philosophy John Roos-Dept. of Government Charles Wilber-Dept. of Economics 
Students interested in the program should see Professor Roos prior to the beginning of the DART period. 424 Decio. 239·7556 
Thursday, March 21, 1991 The Observer page 21 
Jordan, Grant lead Bulls to 25th consecutive home win 
-
CHICAGO (API·-Michael Jordan scored 22 points and Horace Grant added 20 as Chicago won its 25th consecu­tive home game with an easy victory over Atlanta. 
The triumph was the Bulls' ninth straight overall and 20th in their last 21 games. They are :H>-3 in the Chicago Stadium and a league-leading 50-15 overalL 
Atlanta trimmed a 16-point deficit to 10 late in the third quarter as Dominque Wilkins hit a pair of free throws with I :2H remaining. But Chicago went on a 7-2 run and led 90­75 after three quarters. The Hawks got no closer than 14 points in the fourth quarter, evnn though Jordan ·sat out the final period for the second straight game. 
Suns 110, Mavericks 96 
Xavier McDaniel scored 24 points and Tom Chambers added 22 Wednesday night as Phoenix rolled to its club-record seventh consecutive road victory by beating Dallas. 
Jeff Hornacek contributed 20 points and Kevin Johnson had 15 points and 12 assists as the Suns won for the 10th time in their last 11 games. 
Dallas went 3:46 without scoring down the stretch until Derek Harper's basket with 
2:34 to play narrowed Phoenix's lead to 101-92. But Hornacek's three-pointer on the Suns' next possession ended the hopes of the Mavericks, now 2-6 in their last eight games. 
Knicks 102, Cavaliers 97 
Patrick Ewing scored 22 of his 32 points in the second half and the New York Knicks climbed over the .500 mark for the first time in four months by defeat­ing the Cleveland Cavaliers 102­97 on Wednesday night. 
Ewing scored 12 points in the third quarter and 10 more in the fourth as the Knicks im­proved to 34-33 with their sev­enth victory in eight games. 
They last bettered .500 on Nov. 24 at 6-5. 
Reserve guard Gerald Paddio led the Cavaliers with a career­high 24 points, and Brad Daugherty scored 21. John Starks had 13 points for New York, while Trent Tucker re­placed Gerald Wilkins, out with an injured thigh, and scored 12. 
76ers 107, Pistons 103 
Charles Barkley scored 32 points and Hersey Hawkins had nine of his 20 points in the fourth quarter as Philadelphia handed Detroit its ninth loss in 13 games. 
Detroit never led in the game, but closed to 82-81 on a three­point play by James Edwards with 11:32 remaining. Philadelphia then went on a 10­2 run, with six by Hawkins, to take a 92-83 lead. 
Philadelphia led 98-89 with 
4:03 to go, but the Pistons ral­lied and trailed by 103-99 on two free throws by John Salley with 1:04 to go. However, 
· King's next match, knocking the In his next match, however, Irish 190-pounder into the King fell 9-2 to Northwestern's
NCAA's 
consolation bracket. King won Mike Funk, who had been his next two consolation seeded fifth at 190 pounds.
continued from page 24 
matches, however, as he Funk then won the seventh Bucknell's Bryan Burns de­thumped Dan Richie of Ohio place match (over Burns) to 
feated King by technical fall State 3-2 and Dan Sanchez of finish seventh. 
(21-5) at the 6:08 mark of Wagner 6-4. "This tournament was good 
YES, HE'S BACK 
Cliff Erickson w·:==== 
~CLUB 
~®~IT ~®W9 &£IT ~~~~ 
MOVING • AUTO • SPENDING MONEY SECURITY DEPOSIT • WARDROBE 
Seniors, when you graduate, you'll have expenses and we would like to help! We have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 
~NEW AUTO· 9.75°/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. YOU MAY ~AlfY FOR ANY OF THE FOUOWING LOANS BASm ON YOUR SIGNATURE. 
• MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your· first year as part of this special offer. ~QUICK CASH· 13.25% APR, variable rate. To use this 
loan, you simply write a check! ~ RELOCATION· 9.1 °/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to ~ repay. You must also have our Mastercard and 
line-of-credit. Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 
0 ~RAL~UNION 
239-6611 
Sllparale from the University 
Rickey Green made two foul shots for the 76ers to secure the win. 
Celtics 1 02, Bullets 81 
Reggie Lewis scored 22 of his 28 points in the first half, and Kevin Gamble added 20 as Boston beat Washington. 
Lewis hit 9 of his 10 shots from the field in the first half and scored 12 points in the second quarter, including eight of Boston's last 10. Gamble had 8 points in each of the first two quarters as Boston led 56-46 at the half. 
The Bullets fought back from a 69-56 lead with 2:54 remain­ing in the third quarter with an 8-2 run and trailed 71-64 after John Williams converted a three-point play. But Dee Brown hit the last two baskets of the quarter, including a jump shot at the buzzer, to rebuild Boston's lead to 75-64 and the Celtics pulled away in the final quarter. 
for King and McGrew," sur­mised McCann. "they have to realize that they have to do cer­tain things to be able to com­pete at that level. They were in an arena packed with fans, and it was easy to be a little starstruck. It was a new expe­rience, but they must reitlly work on their strength and power." 
Curt Engler, who, at heavy­weight, was Notre Dame's fourth championship partici­pant, lost a cliff-hanging, 7-4 first-round decision to Kevin Marriner of Central Connecticut. 
"Curt wrestled pretty well," said McCann, "only to lose on a penalty point at the end. It was a pretty good match, but even if he had won, he would have had a difficult draw, because he would have had to face the top seed in his next match. 
"The NCAA Tournament is tough, especially for our young kids who were taking on older, stronger, more matured and 
Nets 118, Timberwolves 111, 
OT 

Mookie Blaylock's desperation 3-pointer sent the game into overtime and Sam Bowie scored six of his career-high 38 points in OT to lift New Jersey over Minnesota. 
The Nets, who have won three of their last four games, trailed through most of the second half but sent the game into overtime when Blaylock banked in a 28­foot 3-point shot at the buzzer to tie the game at 102-102. 
After each team hit two shots, the Nets' Chris Morris ignited a six-point spurt that iced the victory by taking a pass from Derrick Coleman and dunking with 1 :30 remaining. 
Pacers 117, Heat 107 
Reggie Miller scored 27 points, including 8 in a row during a crucial fourth-quarter stretch, as Indiana defeated Miami. 
mostly redshirted guys. We faced lots of fifth-year kids. We were really a lot smaller than these guys, and we need bulk power. Hopefully the team will realize that we have to live in the weight room in the spring, summer and fall." 
The team's performance at the NCAA's, though, did not color McCann's assessment of the year in review. 
"We felt that going in with our schedule, we would need a total team effort to win all of our matches," stated McCann. "With the exception of Iowa and maybe Nebraska, we could have beaten them all. Plenty of teams would have taken a one­hundred percent effort to beat, but we had the people to do the job. 
"I am a realist, and I don't pretend we can beat someone if we can't. We have quite a bit of experience returning for next year. Wrestling is a tough sport, and we have a lot of work to do-starting now." 
How to start your law career 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
Mter taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top la•n firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
~ 

!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
DON"T COMPETE W1TH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 E. SWTH BEJI) AVE. ---------SWTH BEJI), IN ta66J7 
Zl9/Z72_.H5 
6/10/91 LSAT Prep Class starts 3/25/91. 
T 
-
... 
... 
~------------~-------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer Thursday, March 21, 1991 
Runnin' Rebels seek inspiration from 
-
Tyson; Utes hope to avoid 'bloodbath' 
SEATTLE (AP) -As if UNLV needed an edge against a Utah team whose coach is worried about "a bloodbath," a few Runnin' Rebels psyched them­selves up by sitting ringside at the Mike Tyson-Razor Ruddock brawl. 
Greg Anthony, the point guard who keeps the Rebels runnin'. rushed through the dapper fight crowd as if he were breaking a fullcourt press. Sporting his red UNLV warmup jacket. Anthony snaked past the silk tuxedos and full-length sables to get close to the action. 
"We need some inspiration. We have to keep our intensity up," said Anthony, who will lead the undefeated, defending national champions Thursday night against Utah in the NCAA West Regionals semifinals. 
UNLV's intensity has never been questioned during its 43­game winning streak. If any­thing the Rebels have been too intense, winning this year by an average of 29 points a game. 
They are the KO Kids of col­lege basketball, finishing off opponents with the same fury that Tyson usually shows against his victims. UNLV doesn't just win, it intimidates. 
Larry Johnson has the mus­cle, Stacey Augmon the acro­batic moves. Anderson Hunt the deadly eye from the outside, and George Ackles the rapid-fire jams. But Anthony has the brains, sweet passes and flypaper defense that keep everyone happy and working together. 
UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian is so impressed with Anthony, he thinks the 23-year-old could be a success in anything he chooses -the NBA, politics, business, even boxing. 
"Greg's probably too intelli­gent for it," Tarkanian said. "But he would be a world­champion fighter. He's so intel­ligent (and) he's got the quick­est reflexes. 
"He's got an incredible toler­ance to pain. He hurts his hand so bad our trainer tells us, if it's anybody else he'd be out a 
"In the grasp" rules relaxed by NFL owners 
KOHALA. Hawaii (AP)-NFL owners modified the controver­sial "in the grasp" rule Wednesday in a way that should give quarterbacks such as John Elway and Randall Cunningham more leeway to scramble. 
The proposal by Jerry Seeman, the league's new su­pervisor of officials, clarifies a rule that has been one of the NFL's most controversial since it took effect in 1978. 
"If a quarterback is scram­bling from the pocket and one man gets his hand on him, he's not down," Seeman said. "It
.. 
takes effect only when the man is being held up and there are other defenders around to grab him." 
Seeman said the competition committee, which proposes the rules, reviewed the tapes from 31 "in the grasp" situations 
.... during the 1990 season. Of those, he said 20 were plays on which the quarterback would have been called down under the old rules. But only eight, he said, would be whistled dead under the new one. "We don't want to see the play stopped when a guy is in the hands of a defender and still can throw the ball 40 yards downfield," said Seeman. 
week to 10 days. He's out about 10 minutes." 
Maybe Anthony, a 6-foot-2, 190-pounder, has some notion of challenging Tyson one day. 
The other teams in the NCAA tournament wouldn't mind if Anthony switched careers im­mediately. 
"Stacey's one of the best de­fensive forwards I've ever seen, but my favorite defender on Vegas is Greg Anthony," said Seton Hall coach P.J. Carlesimo, who takes his team Thursday against Arizona in the other West Regional semifinal. "I think he's the best fullcourt, man-to-man defensive guard I've ever seen. 
Anthony knows where every­one is on the court, but he's not sure where's he's going in life. The problem, perhaps, is too many good choices. 
An NBA team will calling soon, perhaps making him a first-round draft choice. But there are other ideas floating through Anthony's mind. 
A political science major. he is lured by politics, spending one summer as a congressional intern in Washington, another as an aide at the World Economic Summit in Houston, and serving as vice chairman of the Nevada Young Republicans. He dreams of someday running for the Senate. 
He also caught the en­trepreneurial bug, helping to launch a T-shirt business until the NCAA forced him to give it up because of a rule intended to prevent players from taking phony jobs from boosters. 
"It seemed to be really hypo­critical," said Anthony, who gave up his scholarship at the start of the season so he could pursue the business. "I like to consider myself an example of what the NCAA is striving to have its student-athletes be­come." 
UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian, the NCAA's favorite target, has been vocal on the ruling against Anthony. 
"It wasn't like some booster said, 'Hey, I'm going to give you this company.' These are three really sharp kids. They should bave been applauded for it. It was ridiculous." 
For the moment. Anthony says the only business he's thinking about is beating Utah, then the winner of the Arizona­Seton Hall game before going to the Final Four. 
He and the rest of the Rebels are confident they can win it all again, despite a shaky showing against Georgetown in the sec­ond round. Ackles, UNLV's cen­ter, had a sprained foot and played only 17 minutes in that 8-point victory Sunday in Tucson, but should be fine for Utah. 
Utah coach Rick Majerus says his 30-3 Utes may be in for "a bloodbath" against UNLV. but nobody thinks the Rebels are unbeatable. 
"We believe we can win, but I'm sure Duke felt they could win last year, too," Majerus said, referring to UNLV's 30­point destruction of Duke in the final a year ago. If Tark loses this game, they'll probably tak­ing away his gaming license." 
"If they play as well as their capable, nobody is going to beat them," Carlesimo said. "But Utah is capable of beating them. Vegas can be beat. I think there's a better chance for them to be beaten in the Regional than in the final. When you try to string six wins in a row, somewhere you can slip." 
Arizona coach Lute Olson watched UNLV and Utah play in Tucson and came away thinking that Utah has a chance. 
"Utah is a team that is well­suited to playing the tempo that is not the tempo UNLV wants," Olson said. 
If Utah can control the pace of the game, keep UNLV from racing up and down the court, the Utes could pull an upset, Olson said. 
SPORTS SHORTS 

Pirates• Leyland to work at a 7-11? 
W BRADENTON, Fla. (AP) -After winning the National League Manager of the Year award, it figured Jim Leyland of the Pittsburgh Pirates would be in demand. But by a convenience store chain? Leyland received a letter Tuesday from Herb Cl1ava,nne. president and_CEO of Handee Marts, which operates T~.J;:leven franchises in western Pennsylvania. Leyland was ~Vited to apply for work with 7 -Eleven. The letter came with a 
·stalldard application form. It stems from Leyland's March 4 s1lo11ting match with outfielder Barry Bonds. Afterward. Leyland said if he hadn't asserted his authority. he'd wind up managing a 7~Eleven someplace instead of a baseball team. "I'm going to can this guy, just in case," Leyland said. "I like this. Who knows, i(lget out of baseball, I might want to do something part-time. rm going to send this application in ... 

(AP) _;... an "Razor" 's mother, Lquise, was fighting mad. didn't go to her son's fight against Mike Tyson in Las Vegas on Monday, or even watch it on closed­circuit teleVison. because "every time he is going to fight I get nervous, I feel too nervous to watch. I don't like fighting too m-uch at all." But she knows "Donovan was cheated," and she knows it was "the Americans." Specifically, she blamed 
•n•nLuJL..,, Don King and referee Richard Steele. who stopped the seventh round, giving Tyson a technical knockout. "If knocked Donovan down and counted him out, I'd say, 
right. someone has to win and someone lose," Louise nuuuoJo,;A said. "But a fight like that ... there is no way I'm going to appreciate that kind of fight." And Louise Ruddock doesn't want her son in a rematch with Tyson. "I don't want him to fight any more Americans because they'd just do the same thing 
. ,. 

a seat on the UNLV bench. 
Fr. Regis Duffy 
will speak in the Hesburgh Library Lounge at 6:30PM Friday March 22, 1991. 
sponsored by: ICHTHUS 
Questions? Call Chris Greiveldinger x-1743 Kris Hughes x-3525 Robert Benedetto x-3022 


,.,. 
.••• J 
'<. 
Thursday, March 21, 1991 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
7 p.m. Lecture: "Juniors: Preparing & Planning for Your Job Search" Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsornd by Career and Placement. 7:30 p.m. Opening Heception with Slides and Lecture. Hon Kovatch, Ceramics. Hoom 200, Hiley Hall. 8 p.m. Concert: Faculty Recital, Carolyn Plummer, vio­linist and Karnn Buranskas, cellist. Washington Hall.  ACROSS 1 Bric-a--­5Wane 10Tennyson crossed it: 1892 13lnjury, to Caesar 15 Le Louvre, e.g. 1& Raul Julia TV role  29 Winter pear 30Gorge 31 Dernier­34 Type of chair 35 A 1929 event involving money 3& Comestibles 37 Line on an A.A.A. map  48 Half brother of William I 49 Money 55 Buddhist sect 5& Happily 57 American Revolutionary patriot 58 Abstract being 59 Liturgies &o One-horse  
LECTURES  17 Money  38 Soothing word  carriage  
19 She wrote  39 York river  
Thursday 2:15 p.m. Stanley Muschett, Universidad Santa Maria. "Panama: One Year after the Forgotten War?" 131 De­cio.  "Solar Barque" 20 Ridicule 21 Aroused 23 One does this with money 25 Fossil resin  40Tirade 42 Pulitzer Prize novelist: 1931 44 .. _in the Dark," 1964 film 45 Singers Bonnie  DOWN 1 Yuppie's auto 2 Fall call 3 Pub potable 4 Money  
4:15 p.m. Fred Suppe, visiting scholar in Center for Philosophy of Heligion. "Credentialing Scientific Claims" Library Lounge.  26 Makes reparation 21 Visigoth king  and John 46 Mirador 47 Doughboy's ally  5 Wrong 6 Target 7 Tree of the olive family  
7:30 p.m. Dr. Todd Whitmore, assistant professor, Theology. "Formation of Conscience and Conscientious Objection." Tom Dooley Hoom, LaFortune.  ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE _.::::-r--.-:-:-1  s Type of bag 9 A nematode 10 Money 11 A satellite of  
8 p.m. Prof. Philip Gleason, history professor at ND. "The Historical Context of Liberal Education at Notre Dame." 8 p.m. Library Auditorium. 8 p.m. Terry Lynn Karl, Stanford University. "Cont11mporary Implications of the Life and Death of Archbishop Homero." CSC. Friday  Uranus 12 Peel IDfitJIM.::+.::±::+.::-! 14"Give-Hour": Friml 18 Large sums of ~'"+'~+:-t money ~±t+-=1 22 Bee: Comb. form r.um~W.~IM 23 Ermine in ~ summer  28 Emit amplified light 30 Canadian Indian 32 Gilroy's "Subject" 33 Fishy date? 35 Lemon operating in  41 Role in "Evita" 42 Lure 43 Had the flu 44 She was Miss Brooks 45 Romeo and Juliet, e.g. 4& Seep  47 Ceramist's paste 50 Samuel's mentor 51 Ship's channel 52 Burmese knife 53 Queen before Sophia 54 Juan Carlos I, e.g.  
~::+.-=t:+.:-1 25 Money


w::::+.:-+7'-t=-i 24 Money, etc. 
Detroit 

12:15 p.m. Prof. Jim Collins. "Feminist Theory and the Answers to any three clues in this 
36 Masses of 

f7+.,.-t:--:+::-t::-i 26 But, in Bonn 
puzzle are available by touch-tone
Media" Friday Forum at the CSC. money
~=+::-+:-t::-i 27 Beatles' "-phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each Day's Night" 38 Piscatory rover minute). 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Pasta Faziole Chicken Acropolis Meat Havioli Cod cakes w/Newburg Sauce 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATTERSON Tr:H-::::E~FA:::-R-::S~ID_E-----:-----,im'GU::::AR:::::Yrr.:LA;;s:R;::;::SO~N ;;,SP:....:E::LU::N~K::ER:..___________JA_Y_H_OS_LER
1

I MI\OC M'i &.0 1\ND r: \4~1/£ f>.. 1\W-1'( ioJ . P\Jr tJ.'i 8Rtf>..l(~l\.'5\ D\'5~£5 GOOD Dl\i. l'LL S\\JD'i AWl\~! I'M ()tf' TO 1-l~R\). A. GOOD SCHOO\.. NC>W .' £\:IJCA\l()~ \'3 1~\JP.,llJA.I3lE. 


lhur sda ~. Man:h 21st 
The St1AM~()CI\ St1Ufflf Ill 
"'~ t>ace betlns al Stepan Center, .j p.m. 
"'lllt>re Is a If> rethlrallvn fee, whl£h 
Includes •• £llmmc>mt>rall'lle 1-shl.-t. 
"'lletllter ~\au;h N &. 2() at dinner c.>r In SUI1 t>lfl«:e t>l" 1/2 ht>u.-beft>n~ the I"Uho 
"'llalll date set ft>l" 4.pl"ll -4th. 
8:00p.m. and 10:30p.m.
The Wall 
$2 Cushing Auditorium
Th·ursday 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

--~----------------------.. ---~ 
Sports 
page 24 Thursday, March 21, 1991 
Women's hoops travels to Texas for NIT Tourney 
By RENE FERRAN "After a day or two, I was three-point threat (40.8 per­Associate Sports Editor ready to get back going," Davis cent). On the inside, 6-0 junior said. "I'm looking forward to Laura Hughes (9.1 ppg, 6.8 rpg) 
Amarillo, Texas may not be going back and doing better made a smooth transition from on everyone's top 10 list of than sophomore season. It's the junior college ranks to places to be in March, but for nice to have one more week of become the Broncos' main in­the eight women's basketball playing, one more week of bas­side force. teams at the 23rd annual ketball before hanging up the "They're a well-balanced National Invitational Tour­shoes." team," Glass said. "Their two nament, this weekend is an op­Notre Dame's first-round op­guards are their two leading portunity to make a statement. ponent tonight is eighth-seed scorers, but they get scoring 
"It's a chance to show the Santa Clara (25-3), West Coast from all positions, and they get (NCAA selection) committee, if Conference champions. The a lot of points in transition." we can go down and win (the Broncos improved dramatically The main points of the other NIT), that they messed up when from their 9-17 record last six teams in the tournament: they didn't pick us," senior season largely due to the efforts •ALABAMA-BIRMINGHAM Krissi Davis said. "That defi­of transfer guard Melissa King. (22-7)~The second seed was nitely is a motivation to do well. The 5-7 sophomore sat out the runner-up in the Sun Belt 
"But if you look at the other last season after leaving Fresno Conference tournament and is teams, they're also mad that State, but she was well worth making its first-ever postseason they didn't make the tourney, the wait. The WCC Player of the appearance. The Lady Blazers and they all want to show the Year averaged 19.6 points, 5.1 are led by Sun Belt Player of the NCAA their stuff. We can't take rebounds, 5.5 assists and 3.6 Year Jacque Nero, a 5-11 junior anyone lightly." steals, was a starter for Santa who led the league in both 
Notre Dame (23-6) goes into Clara's Final Four soccer team, scoring and rebounding (21.2, the NIT as the top seed in the and is easily the Broncos' 11.2). eight-team tourney. This is the biggest weapon on the basket­•NORTHERN ILLINOIS (24­third time in Irish history that ball court. 8)-The Huskies finished sec­they have gone to Texas, finish­"She's a lot like Karen ond in the North Star Confer­ing third in 1986 and seventh in Robinson," said assistant coach ence and come into the NIT as 1989. Dave Glass. "She's very athletic, the third seed. 5-7 senior Lisa 
While at first Davis was un­quick and extremely fast. She Foss (24. 9 ppg), the North Star sure whether she wanted to looks to penetrate more; she's Player of the Year, and 6-0 compete at the NIT, as the ini­not the shooter that Karen is." sophomore Cindy Conner (12.6, tial disappointment of not King's backcourt mate, All­6.8) are NIU's top players. making the NCAAs faded away, wee senior Julie Lienert (15.1 •LOUISVILLE (23-9)-The her enthusiasm for this week­ppg). is Santa Clara's second­
see NIT I page 18
end grew. leading scorer and primary 
Men's tennis faces top teams at Blue-Gray Invitational 
By DAVE McMAHON cannot accept and the remain­
man, was ranked 240th in the and have almost all foreign Associate Sports Editor der are chosen from the 17th­world before the setback to players," said Bayliss. " We ranked team down. Coleman. haven't played a whole lot of "This is like getting into the "I would think this is the shot the teams that they've played,
The Notre Dame men's tennis Sweet 16 of the NCAAs," said in the arm that he needs," said so it'll be test for us." team, coming off a 1-3 record coach Bob Bayliss. "It's first­Bayliss. Facing such stellar opponents over spring break, continues its class tournament and it has Perhaps playing the most is beginning to take its toll on relentless schedule today as it another first class field." consistent tennis for the Irish, the Irish, who have alreadybegins play in the Blue-Gray Unfortunately for Notre besides DiLucia, is sophomore played ten of the 25 teams 
Invitational at Montgomery, Ala. Dame, they may be without the Mark Schmidt, who lost some ranked in this weeks Volvo 
The 14th-ranked Irish (10-8) services of junior All-American tough matches over break but Tennis poll. Seven of the eightface Mississippi State in the David DiLucia, who suffered has had a tendency to recover Notre Dame losses have been to opening round of the outdoor back spasms in the UCLA match quickly from such setbacks. the numbers one, three, four, event. A win over the Bulldogs and will be tested on a day-by­Doubles play has been five, six, twelve, and thirteen would pit Notre Dame against day basis. A cold, overcast day Mark Schmidt boosted by sophomore Andy teams in the nation. either 11th-ranked South in Los Angeles aggravated the to make some waves. Zurcher, who has teamed with "There's no question we're a Carolina or 24th-ranked injury, but the Norristown, "If Dave's injured, this will be primarily with junior Will little battle weary," said Bayliss.
Minnesota in the second round. Penn., native was still able to the time for the sophomores to Forsyth to bolster the number­"Hopefully we'll be able to start 
The competition doesn't let up dispose of 26th-ranked Jason come in and play like they did two doubles position. winning a few of the close for the Irish, as 15 of the Netter, 6-4, 6-3. It was last year," said Bayliss. The opener with Mississippi matches that have been gettingtournament's 16 teams are DiLucia's 16th straight win and Chuck Coleman, coming off a State will present the Irish with away from us lately."
ranked among the top 35 in the raised his singles record to 35-confidence-building win over a common commodity amongnation. The top 16 teams, as of 4. UCLA's David Nainkin, 6-7, 6-2, an ever-increasing amount of With a possible NCAA bid on last season's final Volvo If DiLucia's injury makes his 6-3, should provide a boost for college tennis teams -that is, the horizon, the Irish could only 
Tennis/Collegiate Rankings, are status questionable, a strong the sophomore-laden squad. foreign players. improve their chances with a invited to the event, but some sophomore class will be forced Nainkin, a 22-year old fresh-"They're a very young team few wins this weekend. 
Irish wrestlers fini~h season placing 35th in NCAA Championships at Iowa 
By DAVE DIETEMAN McGrew won, and Curt Engler of Gowens. 
Sports Editor lost a close one." In his first match, McGrew "But King fell in the next registered a fall over Steve round, Gowens and McGrew Williams of North Carolina The Notre Dame wrestling lost to the top seeds in their di­State at the 5:46 mark, only to team capped off a roller-coaster visions. King won his next two lose 18-7 to top-ranked Marty season by placing 35th at the matches, but he lost his next Morgan of Minnesota in his next NCAA Championships in Iowa one, which would have placed match. McGrew was then City, Iowa. him in the top eight. Also, caught and pinned byThe Iowa Hawkeyes, mean­McGrew got pinned in his con­Oklahoma State's Robbywhile, who manhandled the solation match." Hadden while attempting a legIrish 51-0 in a late-season dual Marcus Gowens, a 126-pound shot in his consolation match. meet, ran away with the na­junior from Del City, Okla., won Ironically, Hadden had been tional championship by scoring his first match, 6-3, over Danny beaten by Morgan the match 157 team points. Iowa matmen Smith of Lock Haven University. before Morgan defeated 
captured two first-places, four Gowens, however, was pinned McGrew. second-places, two third-places, by top seed Terry Brands of Sophomore Steve King, how­and one sixth-place. Iowa at the 6:04 mark of his ever, was the Irish wrestler Yet the Irish did not suffer . next match. Gowens then fell 8-closest to placing in the topfrom lack of trying. 6 to Nick Pendolino of Clarion eight and gaining All-American "We didn't have the best draw in a consolation match. status. 
in the world," reflected Notre "Marcus has got to work on King, who is from Janesville, 
Dame coach Fran McCann, who his strength," prescribed Minn., opened the tournament 
saw two of his McCann. "He also has to relax. with a 17-14 upset of Syracuse's 
wrestlers-Marcus Gowens and He gets into situations where he Mark Kerr, ranked sixth at 190 
Steve King-make return trips needs more power and he just pounds. Kerr, oddly enough, 
to the tournament. "We had a doesn't have any more." had beaten King in an early­
good first round. Steve King J.J. McGrew, a freshman 177-season dual meet. 
beat the sixth seed in his weight pounder from Cleveland, Okla., 
see NCAA'S I page 21
class, Gowens won, J.J. met with a fate similar to that 







