~---------------------~-~---­

VOL. XXIII NO. 76 TUESDAY , JANUARY 22, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush denounces brutal treatment of POWs 
WASHINGTON (AP) 

Gulf area a combat zone. His President Bush, upset by bleak action exempts the armed pictures of allied prisoners of forces there from income tax 
war, denounced Iraq's "brutal on their military pay. 
treatment" on Monday and For many Americans, the war pledged their capture would took on a harsh reality as tele­not deter the war against vision newscasts provided a Saddam Hussein. "America is firsthand look at captured U.S. angry," Bush declared. pilots making obviously forced 
Asked if the Iraqi leader statements criticizing the war would be held accountable for against Iraq. Bush saw tapes of any mistreatment of prisoners, the pilots. Iraq said it had dis­a grim-faced president said, Marine Wanant Officer Hunter Lt. Col Cliff Acree Lt. Jeffrey Zaun persed the POWs to "civilian, "You can count on it." economic, education and other 
Defense Secretary Dick targets."
missiles, which Saddam has weekly blood shipments to gulf briefing. "You've got to re­
Cheney called the treatment of "This is not going to make a
used to· attack Israel and Saudi hospitals from 1,000 pints to member there is another side
the prisoners "a war crime." Qifference in the prosecution of 
Arabia. The Pentagon said Iraq 400 pints. "They've collected in this war." 
Iraq's senior diplomat in the war against Saddam; it's
also was using decoys to foil almost too much because there Members of Congress said the 
Washington, Khalid Shewayish, not going to make a differ­
attacks on mobile missile haven't been as many military seemed content to stick 
was called to the State ence," Bush said, calling Iraq's 
launchers. casualties as they had with the air war, where the al­
Department and given a mes­treatment of prisoners a "direct
But military leaders said they expected," said Red Cross lies hold an advantage. "My
sage strongly protesting violation" of international
remained satisfied with the spokeswoman Elizabeth Hall. sense is there's no hurry to
Baghdad's actions. conventions protecting POWs.
course of the war. "Our casual­The Pentagon refused to give start the ground war," Rep.
Five days into the fighting, 
ties have been significantly specific damage estimates in Thomas Downey, D-N.Y., said.
the administration cautioned The president said he was
lower than I think most people the war, citing intelligence se­Rep. Tim Penny, D-Minn., said, 
that Iraq still had a potent mili­making "the strongest appeal
anticiP,ated based on his.torical crets or weather problems in "There's a sense he (Saddam) is 
tary machine despite the that these people be treated .
experience," Cheney said. the Persian Gulf. hunkering down and waiting us
pounding of about 8,100 air properly.... And they are not
The American Red Cross, re­"You've got to remember that out."
missions by the allies. being. And America is angry
acting to a Pentagon request, we're in a ·war," Lt. Gen. Bush, in an executive order,
Cheney said Iraq still had an about this, and I think the rest
said it had scaled back its Thomas Kelly told a Pentagon officially designated the Persian
arsenal of hundreds of Scud of the world is." 
Demonstrators demand forum for minority issues 
By CATHY FLYNN 
News Writer 
Demonstrators flooded the Student Affair's office yester­day, demanding a date for an open forum to discuss minority issurs. 
"I would like to invite you to Patricia O'Hara's office [the Vice President of Student Affairs] to set a date for an open forum to discuss our de­mands," former-student Robert Price said after his speech at the ceremony on the steps of the Administration Building honoring Martin Luther King. The formal demands were made by the Students United For Respect (SUFR). 
Initially, O'Hara hesitated in committing to a date, saying that she would be out of town and would then need time to read the students' list of de­mands. However, after listen­ing to the insistence of the demonstrators, she said that the forum 'would take place on Tuesday, January 29th at 7:30 
p.m. in Hayes-Healy. 1 
"We want the University to understand our differences and we ask for respect," Sophomore Joe Wilson said. "The whole world is changing. Why can't this world change?" 
One change that SUFR de­mands is the formation of a ra­cial harassment policy at the University. 1\vo years ago, the University agreed to begin to formulate this policy, said se­nior Michele Cage. However, it still does not exist. 
"They don't even give us in­formation on their progress," Price said. "How are we sup­posed to know if they are even working on it or if they have made any progress?" 
The failure of the University to draft a racial harassment policy has an important mes­sage said Price. It is a sign that either the administration does not believe that there is a need for such a policy, or that discrimination does not exist at Notre Dame, he said. 
"The original request for a racial harassment policy came because of a specific incident of a professor making comments to a student," Price said. "Students have decided to get together after the University has basically not moved." 
Another demand of SUFR concerns the hiring of assis­tants to the Office of Minority Affairs. SUFR says that the Director of Minority Affairs was originally promised two assistants, but has never re­ceived those assistants and also does not have the authority to hire those assistants himself. 
"The University doesn't give the Director of Minority Affairs the right to choose who his own assistants are because they say that they know what is in our best interest," Senior Beatriz Cruz said. "The Administration says that the Office of Minority Affairs is a special case and has to go through special hiring practices, but we don't under­stand why because they never explained that to us." 
The students of the SUFR coalition also demand a com­mittment by the University to build a multi-cultural center. Until one is built, they want to use Theodore's for events with­out a D.J. or monetary restric­tions. 
"The University sets up all of these parties on minority re­cruitment weekend," said sophomore Yolanda Lawler. 
"After that, we don't even have a place to meet." 
Other demands of SUFR in­clude an improvement of the present Ethnic Studies Programs and an increase in the number of minority faculty holding tenured positions at the University. Currently, 1% of the entire faculty are minorities and SUFR would like them to be 10% [the percentage of eth­nic students at Notre Dame.] 
"In efforts to recruit more minority students to campus, the Administration wants more 'cultural diversity'." Lawler said. "However, it seems as though having a few drops of color on campus is more impor­tant than having true cultural diversity on campus." 
The coalition demands fur­ther that some form of ethnic 
see SUFR I page 5 

March across NO campus marks the King holiday 
King's "I Have a Dream

By CATHY FLYNN 
Speech."

News Writer 
"I think the turn-out was 
great," Tombar said. "I think 
Various members of the • a lot of people had to sacrifice 
Notre Dame community stood and skip classes in order to 
atop the steps of the be here to honor this man 
Administration building who gave his life for peace." 
yesterday and called upon Not everyone was pleased 
University officials to bring by the turnout, however. 
University policies into line Junior Chelsea•Latimer said 
with the teachings of Martin that she was disappointed by 
Luther King, Jr. the lack of participation on 
The speeches were part of a the part of the faculty and the 
march across campus staged administration. 
by students and faculty in 
honor of Martin Luther King "I would like to ask Father 
Day. Malloy ... -wherever you are," 
The candlelight procession former student Robert Price which started at 12:30 p.m. asked in his speech "why it is from both dining halls culmi­so difficult to formulate and nated at the Administration endorse a racial harassment Building, where policy at Notre Dame." demonstrators listened to the Price said that now is the Vice President of the Student 

King Holiday March 

Body, Fred Tombar, recite ooe MARCH I page 5 
Students and others march across campus as they hold candles in memory of Martin Luther King, Jr. on the holiday held in his name. Campus events to honor Dr. King included speeches and a mass at Sacred Heart. 


page 2 Tuesday,Janua~22, 1991
The Observer 

















WEATHERINSIDE COLUMN 
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, Jan. 22. 


Lines show high temperatures. 20

The strangest world events from 1990 

WARNING: The-------­following column contains light­
Yesterday's High: 37 

hearted humor. 
Yesterday's Low: 14 

Readers are advised 
Nation's High: 80 

to take it with as 
(Ft. Lauderdale 

many grains of salt 
Beach and Naples, Fla.) 

as they wish. 
Nation's Low: -25 Proving once again--Paul Pearson 
(International Falls, that truth is indeed 
Minn.) stranger than fiction, Asst. News Editor 
I humbly present,_________ 
Forecast: 

from the home office Increasingly cloudy this
FRONTS:
in South Bend, Indiana, the TOP 10 RIDICU­
afternoon with highs near LOUS THINGS OF 1990. Remember: All 
• • • 20. Cloudy and not as these things actually happened (Sources: 
cold tonight with lows 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
Life magazine, Parade magazine and the 

©1991 Accu-Weather, Inc. around 15. Cloudy Associated Press.) 
Pressure 
tomorrow with a 60 
10. The Air Force revealed that it paid 

percent chance of light
X
® © ~' ~ m ~ rn
Pratt & Whitney $999 apiece for special pli­snow with lows in the mid-
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
ers to install clips on airplanes. A Pratt 20's. 

V1a AssOCiated Press Graph1csNet
spokesman said, "They're multipurpose. They not only put them on, they also take them off." 
OF INTEREST Anyone interested in writing for The Observer this 
9. President Bush's declaration "I am the 
president of the United States and I'm not 
A Van Drivers Training Seminar will be offered 

spring should come to a meeting Tuesday night at 9 p.m. 
going to eat any more broccoli," was fea­for all those who have not previously attended and areat The Observer office, 3rd floor LaFortune. If you cannottured on at least two networks' evening planning to request use of Center for Social Concern'sattend the meeting, please call Kelley, Monica ornews broadcasts. 

vans. The course will be offered on both Tuesday, JanuaryFlorentine at 239-5303.

8. Milli Vanilli. 'Nuff said. 
22 and Wednesday, January 23 at 4:30p.m. at the Center. 
7. Richard Nixon's library opened in Cali­A Mandatory C.S.C. Mexico project meeting will You may attend either session to become eligible to drive fornia. On one of the library's tapes, he 

be held for all those interested in -volunteering with the a Center van. 
states, "I have often thought that if there three week Maryknoll Program. The meeting will be heldhad been a good rap group around in those 

in the CSC at 7:30p.m. Thursday, January 24. If unable to Applications for Summer Residence Hall staff 
days, I might have chosen a career in music attend please contact Kathy Shannon at 277-9406 or are now available in the Office of Student Residences, 311 instead of politics." 

Lauren Nathe at 273-1380. Administration Building. 
6. The Washington-based Foundation'oliOn Economic Trends sued the Department of 

Residence Hall Contracts for 1991-92 have been Videotaped Mock Interviews are taking place this 
the Interior for failing to measure how 

distributed to the halls. If you are a returning freshmen, week in the Career and Placement Service's office. A few much flatulent livestock are contributing to 
sophomore or junior and did not receive a contract, spots remain open and are available to juniors, seniors,global warming. According to Interior De­please come to 311 Administration Building. Contracts and graduate students to practice your job interviewingpartment lawyer Tom Sansonetti, if a study 
are to be returned to Student Residences before 5 p.m., skills. was begun it might recommend that farm­
February 1, 1991. ers "produce less windy cattle." 
JPW Lector Tryouts will be ·held at 4 p.m. this 
5. At one point, the best-selling non-fic­

Thursday, January 24 in Sacred Heart Church. If you have tion book in America was "Millie's Book," 
any questions call Greg at 283-3549. which was written by Barbara Bush's dog. -4. Rap star Vanilla Ice had to re-release 
WORLD 
his debut album not once, but twice, be­

As the world focused on the Persian Gulf crisis, a A Soviet passenger plane with a crew of eight 
cause he failed to credit the creators of two young Chinese scholar jailed since the 1989 democracy was hijacked today on a domestic flight between Tashkentof his songs. His defense: He was in such a movement finally went on trial in a Beijing court. Liu and the Black Sea port of Odessa and forced to land inrush to release the album that he didn't Xiaobo's closed-door trial began 120 months after he was the Bulgarian city of Burgas. The plane had earlier beenhave time to check if he had named all his arrested and just a few hours before last Tuesday's U.N. denied permission to land in Istanbul, Turkey. An official sources. 

deadline for Iraq to pull out of Kuwait. "With the war in at Burgas airport confirmed the Tupolev 154 plane3. Two Reno families tried to blame the the gulf, it just means (the authorities) will try to finish landed this afternoon without incident and said withoutsuicides of two young men not on the alco­up the trials as quickly as possible to avoid outside elaboration that negotiations were going on between thehol they drank, the marijuana they smoked, interference," said the relative of one protester whose Soviet crew and airport authorities. In Turkey, the semi-or their problems with their personal rela­trial is to begin shortly."What we fear most is that their official Anatolia news agency said the plane carried eighttionships, but on a subliminal message of sentences will be overlooked in all the publicity over the crew but no .passengers and had been hijacked by two"Do it" on the Judas Priest album they had gulf," said a colleague of one protester. A Western people between Tashkent, the capital of Sovietbeen listening to at the time of their deaths. 
diplomat said governments are not ignoring the trials. Uzbekistan, and Odessa.
(The band was eventually acquitted.) 
2. After Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.) criti­cized the Bush-approved budget, White 
NATIONAL 
House Chief of Staff John Sununu asked 

The heavy metal rock band AC-DC continued The Americ~n Tel~ph'!ne & Telegra~h Co. an-
him "What are you smoking?" 

playing while three fans were being crushed to death, de-nounced Monday m Baskmg Ridge, N.J. that It has re-AND THE NUMBER ONE RIDICULOUS spite chants of "stop the concert," witnesses said quested $77 million in price increases for the bulk of its THING OF 1990 (Drum roll, please.) 
Monday. Two 14-year-old boys and a 19-year-old woman 800 and WATS services for business customers. 
1. America proved it was a "kinder, died and the woman's college roommate was injured after Consumer and international long distance rates are not gentler nation" first by invading Panama thousands of fans rushed the stage when the band began affected by the p~opo.sed change~. ~f approv~d by the and then by sending troops to Saudi Arabia. 

the concert Friday night at Salt Palace arena. Federal Commumcatwns CommissiOn, the mcreases (C'mon, George, make up your mind. Are we 
would vary from 0.6 percent to 2. 7 percent beginning Feb. or are we not a "kinder, gentler nation?") 
1. 



CAMPUS 
ALMANAC On January 22: All women veterans who served in any








P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 branch of the armed services during World War 

eln 1905: It was Bloody Sunday in 
(219)-239-7471 II, the Korean or Vietnam Wars, or military 

Russia, as peasants' peacefulaction in Lebanon, Grenada or Panama, are 
marches in St. Petersburg ended in a
Tuesday's Staff 

invited to attend an informational meeting massacre of over 500 as the czar 
Production News Graphics 

Niche-Nicholas II ordered his troops to Wendy Cunningham Brad Galka Jake Frost 
Sunday, February 3, beginning at 2 p.m. at the fire on the unarmed protestors.
American Legion Post #50, 1633 N. Bendix Dr. in 
Karen Newlove Mike Owen 

eln 1934: Paris police arrested veterans know about the benefits that could be 
South Bend, The meeting iS to let all women 
NYSE Index 

nearly 750 people as Communists and theirs, such as insurance and the right to V.A. 
Royalists battled.
180.38 ~ 0.49 
Scoreboard Circulation 
eln 1963: Twelve Iranian students
S&P Composite

Hospital treatment. Dorothy Uselton, State
Sports
Dave McMahon Bill O'Rourke 
331.06 • 1.17 
sat in at Washington's IranianChairperson of the Women Veterans Recruitment

Chris Cooney Matt Novak 

Embassy to protest the Shah's rule. women veterans in helping other veterans and 
Dow Jones Industrial~

Committee will talk about the need and role of 2,629.21 "'T 17.57 
eln 1968: U.S. B-52's with four H­bombs crashed in a bay in Greenland.

their families. For more information call (219)
Systems 
Precious Metals
Gilbert Gomez 

289-5619. 
eln 1978: The South African gov­
Patrick Barth 
Gold +$0.90 to $375.10/oz. 
ernment detained 23 journalists after attendance at an anti-government
Silver +-3.3¢ to $4.01 0/oz. 
meeting. 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer 

Tuesday, January 22, 1991 page 3 
Meeting for candidates announced 
By PETER AMEND 
News Writer 
In the Student Senate meet­ing. Student Body President Hob Pasin announced that a meeting will be held for all stu­dents interested in running for the offiee of Student Body President and Vice-President. The meeting will be held at the Sorin room, which is located in Lafortune, at 7 p.m. on Thursday, January 24. No pre­vious experience in Senate is necessary. 
In other Senate business. Bob Scheibel and Isabel Navarrete, student coordinators of Christmas in April, encourage everyone to mark their calen­dars for April 13. and come out to help repair one of 50 delapi­dated homes of needy South 

This space provided as a public serv1ce. 

AP Photo

Call for Gorbachev to Resign 
More than 200,000 Soviets rally in the center of Moscow to protest the bloody crackdown on the independence movement in Lithuania and demand President Mikhail Gorbachev's resignation. 



TECH MAJORS 
3.0 =$30,000 
If you're holding a grade point average of 
3.0 or higher you may he eligible for up to $1,100 a month plus bonuses, while you're still a student, through the Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Program. 
If you meet the requirements outlined below you could get your start in nuclear power where nuclear power got started-­the Navy. 
• 
United States citizen. 

• 
Have completed sophomore year, m~joring in engineering, math, physics or chemistry. 

• 
Minimum 3.0 CPA. 

• 
Have completed one year of calculus and calculus-based physics. 

• 
No more than 26 Y2 years old at time of commissioning. 

• 
Meet Navy's physical standards. 



FOR MORE INFORMATION: Call toll free 1-800-527-8836 
Full Speed Ahead.
NAVY OFFICER You and the Navy. 

Applications are now being accepted· for the position of 
Editor-in-Chief 1991-92 
Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m., January 25, 1991. 
Further information is available from Alison Cocks at The Observer, 239-7471. 
~----~~----------------------~--~c 
U.S.S.R. faces possible NATO economic sanctions 
BRUSSELS. Belgium (AP) ­NATO and the European Community appeared ready Monday to take economic retal­iatory measures against the Soviet Union for ordering commando assaults on facilities in the Baltic republics. 
At a European Parliament session in Strasbourg, France, EC officials said representatives of its 12 member governments would meet Tuesday in Luxembourg to consider cut.ting off a $500 million technical aid paekage earmarked last month for the Soviet Union. • 
EC Foreign Affairs Commissioner Frans Andriessen said the EC had also decided to postpone EC­Soviet talks aimed at establishing closer ties between Moscow and the trade bloc "until such time as constructive conclusions had been reached" regarding Moscow's future intentions in the Baltics. 
Luxembourg Foreign Minister Jacques Poos, whose country holds the EC's rotating presi­dency, said, "The Community must reconsider its confidence in the Soviet Union." 
Even some nations of the moribund Warsaw Pact, until recently an instrument of Soviet policy, strongly condemned the assault late Sunday of Soviet commandos on Latvia's police headquarters. Five people were killed and 10 injured in the in­cident. 
In nearby Sweden, Premier Ingvar Carlsson blasted the military assault, saying Soviet authorities "show an open and brutal disregard for both the democratic process and human life." The royal family attended a church service in support of the republics. 
The Soviet attack in Riga, coming in the wake of a similar assault that killed 14 people in the neighboring republic Lithuania last week, rivaled with the gulf war developments on Poland's front pages. 
The Bush administration also condemned the developments, calling them "deeply troubling." 
But despite the strong con­demnations, sources said they did not. expect the Western na­tions to take too drastic mea­sures against the Soviets be­cause they fear sue+! response could endanger Gorbachev's re­forms. 
"We are interested in the de­mocratization process of the Soviet Union continuing," German Foreign Minister Hans­Dietrich Genscher said in a statement. 
Besides cutting back hun­dreds of millions in aid, the EC also could take steps to sus­pend or cancel a 1989 trade and cooperation agreement. 
At NATO, the U.S ambas­sador, William Taft IV, said he supported "a closely coordi­nated series of actions to be undertaken by alliance na­tions." · 
"All consultations are contin­uing on an urgent basis toward this end," Taft said in a state­ment. Ambassadors from the 16 member-nations met Monday to reiterate previous warnings about fresh violence there. 
There was no indication what steps the alliance might take, but sources predicted decisions would be made shortly by member governments. 
Gorbachev has been sched­uled to visit alliance headquar­ters, likely this spring, as part of moves to strengthen ties be­tween the Western alliance and the Kremlin. It was considered unlikely the alliance would go so far as to withdraw the invi­tation. 
But the Soviet leader is in danger of being publicly em­barrassed when he delivers the Nobel Peace Prize lecture in Oslo in May. 

If you've set your sights on law school, t~M:re's no better LSAT preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our LSAT prep will open your eyes with score-raising strategies and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. And you can review lessons. and get additional help as needed in our TEST-N-TAPE• lab, open days. evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. 
And watch the scales tip in your favor. 

liSTANLEY H. KAPlAN 
£Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. SWTH BDI> AVE. 
SWTH BDI>, IN 466J7 
219/272-un 

2/9/91 LSAT Prep Class starts 1/21/91. 
---~-~---­

---------~ ·----~------------­
r 
The Observer Tuesday, January 22, 1991
page 4 

A Jordanian tapes up his shop window in case of missile attack. Jordanians fear the Gulf war may spill into their country. 
Prayer service commemorates King's message of non-violence 
By MARK BERRETIINI 
News Writer 

The remembrance of Martin Luther King, Jr. and his mes­sage of peace and non-violence prevailed Monday night at "We All Have a Dream," a prayer service held in Sacred Heart at­tended by nearly 150 people. 
The service began with a wel­come and prayer from Laurie Brink. Brink spoke of a meeting she had with King's killer, James Earl Ray, on Death Row. She said she felt pity for Ray because he had no hope or dream like King. 
Brink also added that people join together as a community of faith and action against hate and prejudice because King has shown us, not because he told us. The Voices of Faith choir began their contribution to the program with a rendition of "Give Us This Day" and was followed by a media reflection of King's "I Have a Dream." 
The program was divided into three segments that dealt with King's message of "Through peace, to service, in discipleship with Christ." The first portion featured a moving reading of King's "Letter from a Birmingham Jail," by students Jocelyn Allen, Fred Tombar, and Joe Wilson. 
Tombar also read a homily by the late Archbishop Oscar Romero. Next, student Elizabeth Bird gave a personal reflectjon on the dreams of King and Romero, as well as the dreams of her own Chtlrokee people. 
The second section again fea­tured Allen, Tombar, and Wilson dramatically presenting "The Drum Major Instinct," a speech of King's. A meditation written by Mother Teresa was also read by Wilson. 
The final section included a Gospel reading by Allen and a Benediction by Father Richard Warner. Soloist Leslie Edwards then sang "Lift Every Voice and Sing" and the Voices of Faith concluded the program with "Hallelujah." 
Priscilla Wong, Assistant Director of Campus Ministry, along with Father AI D'Alonzo of Campus Ministry, Father Stephen Gibson, Director of Fatima Retreat Center, and Jocelyn Allen were responsible for the tribute to King. The service was sponsored by Campus Ministry. 
Wong said the event was planned,"to bring people to­gether, no matter who they are, to hear King's message of peace through service to others, a message we all need to hear." 
Campus Ministry and You 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

"Those of us who love peace must organize as effectively as the war hawks. As they spread the propaganda of war, we must spread the propaganda of peace. We must combine the fervor of the civil rights movement with the oeace 
movement. We must demonstrate, teach, and preach, until the very foundations of our nation are shaken. We must work unceasingly to lift this nation that we love to a higher destiny, to a new plateau of compassion, to a more noble expression of humaneness.
"The past is prophetic in that it asserts loudly that wars are poor chisels for carving out peaceful tomorrows. One day "I have tried to be honest. To be honest is to confrontwe must come to see that peace is not merely ~ distant goal that the truth. However unpleasant and inconvenient the truthwe seek, but a means by which we arrive at that goal. We must may be, I believe we must expose and face it if we are to achieve 
pursue peaceful ends through peaceful means. How much a better quality of American life." 
longer must we play at deadly war games before we heed the plaintive pleas of the unnumbered dead and maimed of past wars?" 
"I refuse to accept the cynical notion that nation after nation must spiral down a militaristic stairway into the hell of "If we assume that life is worth living and that thermonuclear destruction. I believe that unarmed truth andhumanity has a right to survival, then we must find an unconditional love will have the final word in reality. This is alternative to war. In a day when vehicles hurtle through outer why right temporarily defeated is stronger than evil space and guided ballistic missiles carve highways of death triumphant.
through the stratosphere, no nation can claim victory in war." 
"I believe that even amid today's mortar bursts and
"We will never have peace in the world until people whining bullets, there is still hope for a brighter tomorrow. I
everywhere recogni.ze that ends are not cut off from means, believe that wounded justice, lying prostrate on the blood­
because means represent the ideal in the making, and the end flowing streets of our nations, can be lifted from this dust of 
in process. Ultimately you can't reach good ends through evil shame to reign supreme over war and bloodshed, and 
means, because the means represent the seed and the ends represent the tree." nonviolent redemptive good will will proclaim the rule of the land. 'And the lion and the lamb shall lie down together and "A true revolution of values will lay hands on the everyone shall sit under their own vine and fig tree and none world order and say of war: 'This way of settling differences is shall be afraid.' I still believe that we shall overcome." not just.' This business of burning human beings with napalm, of filling our nation's homes with orphans and widows, of Campus Ministry is available to discuss issue related to
injecting poisonous drugs of hate into the veins of people formation of conscience. If you want information about 
normally humane, of sending men home from dark and alternatives to military service or want to clarify your own
bloody battlefields physically handicapped and psychologically position, drop by the Library office or call (239-7800) for an
deranged, cannot be reconciled with wisdom, justice, and love. appointment.
A nation that continues year after year to spend more on 
military defense than on programs of spiritual uplift is 
approaching spiritual death." 
Do you have a relative or friend in the Gulf? Do you know of some Notre Dame alum serving in the Gulf? Please drop their 
"It is time for all people of conscience to call upon name(s) by at the Campus Ministry Library Office. 
America to return to her true home of brotherhood and 
peaceful pursuits. We cannot remain silent as our nation 
engages in one of history's most cruel and senseless wars. 
During these days of human travail we must encourage 
creative dissenters. We need them because thunder of their 
fearless voices will be the only sound stronger than the blasts of 
bombs and the clamor of war hysteria. 


Tuesday, January 22, 1991 The Observer page 5 


Medical personnel from the Malcolm Grow U.S. Air Force Medical Center wave and give the "V" signs as they board an airplane Sunday at Andrews Air Force Base, Md. Some 200 people from the medical center were deployed to a location in the British Isles in support of Operation Desert Storm. 
i •
f

• 

STEAMBOAT $96*
from 

SUFR 
continued from page 1 
program be required of all stu­
dents before graduation. It is 
then that the majority will truly 
experience cultural diversity, 
members of SUFR said. 
"You can't substitute num­
bers for diversity," said Wilson. 
"No matter how many minori­
ties you put into a situation, 
that situation must evolve and 
adapt itself. Instead, they (the 
Administration) expect only 
that the minorities assimilate." 
Another demand of SUFR is 
that the University reform its 
financial aid program. 
Adjustments must be made so 
that it meets the real needs of 
minorities, members said. 
"Inviting minority students· 
here is not enough," said Cage. 
"Most minorities can't afford to 
stay." 
Ethnic organizations must also receive more funding, SUFR contends. Currently, all ethnic organizations receive less funds than the Glee Club, for example, one member of SUFR said. 
"We are not saying that ev­erything at Notre Dame is bad for us." said Cruz. "We are just sayint, that it could be better." 
• 
SHADOW RUN CONDOS OR OVERLOOK HOTEL • 2, 5OR 7 NIGHTS WITH ALL LIFTS • PICNIC ·RACE 
FORT LAUDERDALE $}37*
from 

LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL • vNIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH $}24*
horn 

TOURWAY INN OR THE REEF KITCHENffiES • 7 NIGHTS 
CORPUS CHRISTI/MUSTANG ISLAND $}08*
frorn 

HOLIDAY INN OR PORT ROYAL OCEAN RESORT CONDOS • 5 OR 7NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND $112*
from 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND BEACH &TENNIS RESORT CONDOS • 7 NIGHTS 
S &L regulators blamed for 'slipshod management' 
WASHINGTON (AP) 
Slipshod management by sav­
ings and loan regulators re­

sulted in nearly $1 million in · excess costs to collect payments on loans inherited from failed thrifts, said a congressional report released Monday. 
The report. prepared by the 
General Accounting Office, said 
the Resolution Trust Corp. 
could have reduced costs by 
$964,969 from January to July 
1990 for servicing 1,800 loans 
it inherited from the failed 
Freedom Savings and Loan 
Association, Tampa, Fla. 
"This is clearly a case where 
the RTC dropped the ball," said 
Rep. Bruce Vento, D-Minn., 
who requested the report. 

· Vento is chairman of a House Banking Committee task force overseeing the trust corpora­tion, which was created in August 1989 to dismantle failed S&Ls. 
In October 1989, when the RTC sold part of Freedom to North Carolina National Bank of Florida, it agreed that NCNB would operate Freedom's com­puterized loan processing cen­ter even though the government would retain ownership of the center. 
The center, in Orlando. Fla., and its 32 employees collected and kept track of monthly payments from 9,000 loans NCNB had purchased as part of the deal and 1,800 loans the RTC had kept. The agency agreed to reimburse NCNB for the center's costs of servicing the government-owned loans. 
A sailor strains to attach a missile to an F-18 Hornet on the deck· of the aircraft carrier USS Saratoga Friday. Planes from the Saratoga, which is sailing in the Red Sea, are taking part in bombing missions in Iraq that will resume with clear weather. 
Gulf 
continued from page 7 
tions that he is the champion of all Arab causes everywhere and they should sympathize with him." 
However, should Israel retal­iate against Saddam's attack, the breakup of the Arab anti­Iraq coalition, though very pos­sible, according to Norling, is not imminent. The animosities that have existed between these Arab tribes for centuries are not easily overcome. 
For example, he said, in addi­tion to the naked aggression, there is an "element of gross ingratitude in the attack of Kuwait without provocation to steal oil." Kuwait had previ­ously granted a generous amount of foreign aid to Iraq in its war with Iran. 
Furthermore, he said, Iraq has "attacked a fellow Arab na­tion [Saudi Arabia] on their own doorstep," an act not likely 
March 
continued from page 1 
time to ask what we can do to make King's dreams a reality. He called on Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara, who was also not present, to make sure that the University follows through on its pledges to minority students. 
"The absence of a racial ha­rassment policy at Notre Dame, the lack of minority scholar­ships and inadequate financial aid, and the public scope of racist views in the public arena show that his [King's] dream to foster any degree of trust with other Persian Gulf states. 
Although Norling said that one "can only guess the results of policies that weren't tried thoroughly," he called the his­tory of sanctions "not very in­spiring." 
Because many of the European.allies are not enthu­siastic in their support of the 
U.N. efforts, Norling predicted that the coalition would slowly deteriorate. In addition, "Arabs would have more time for sec­ond thoughts and ... Iraq would picture itself as the victim of European oppression and ex­ploitation," he said. 
This is not like a football game with time constraints, said Norling. "Wars are won if one of two things happen: if you kill every one in the opposing military or when one of the armies decides to quit." 
According to Norling, a con­tinuous, overwhelming effort is necessary to damage Iraqi morale and end the conflict as soon as possible. 
has not yet been realized," Price said. 
Others present at the demon­stration agreed with Price. Junior Yolanda Rainge said that the University expresses concerns over minority issues verbally, but does not act on these issues. 
"Martin Luther King died in order for us to come to an in­stitution like this," Sophomore Azildwe Chandler said. "His le­gacy lives on, but his dreams have not been realized." 
American Heart a.•a Association V 
&-------­
r -­
Arabia Sunday night, but they were destroyed by Patriot rockets. 
Radar Identifies and tracks incoming Scud missile 
How the system works 0 Patriot launched 
6 Radar guides Patriot to incoming Scud 

I' 
page 6 OPERATION DESERT STORM Tuesday, January 22,1991 

ROTC leaders see the possibility of a draft as very remote ... 
By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
In the opinion of Notre Dame ROTC commanders, the rein­statement of a military draft for the war in the Persian Gulf is not a real possibility. 
"There is a great deal of rea­son to think that the draft will not be reinstated," said Lt. C. Douglass Hemphill, professor of Military Science in Army ROTC. Hemphill said that a draft would be established only as last resort, if "things got terribly out of hand." 
The chances for a draft are "absolutely zero," said Lt. Tricia Vislay, assistant profes­sor of Naval Science in Navy ROTC. She said there has been "no real talk in Congress" of a draft. The all-volunteer military has been "working out very well," she added. 
Not only would the estab­lishment of a military draft be unpopular with U.S. citizens and U.S. Congressman, said Hemphill, but the military itself would be hesitant to go along with a draft. 
The draft "brings a lot of problems with it," he said. In its present form, all four branches of the military consist of paid volunteers. A draft would incorporate into the mili­tary "people who wouldn't want to be there," he said, thus in­creasing the chances of lower troop morale and less effi­ciency. 
The machinery for a draft is already in place, said Hemphill, and would require an act of Congress to put it in motion. 
Hemphill and Vislay both said that they had not heard of any talk about a draft. Col. Howard Hanson, professor of Aerospace Studies in Air Force ROTC, had 
... others see it as much more likely 
By MEG SHUFF News Writer 
The possibility of 11 draft and the issues of conscientious ob­jection were the topics of the first in a series of seminars sponsored by the Gulf Crisis Action Group. 
David Cortright of the class of 1968 related the present crisis to his own experiences when he was drafted by the Army for Vietnam as he played a major role in anti-war activity while serving. Margaret Garvey, a conscientious objection coun­selor, filled in the details of a draft and the role of a consci­entious objector. 
"I realized it was wrong and it was my moral duty to speak out against the war," Cortright said. 
Cortright said that it is up to each of us to make a decision on whether war was really a last resort or whether we have acted too quickly. "You can wrestle with this decision as well as the decision of conscientious objection," he said. 
By law a conscientious objec­tor is opposed to war, Garvey said. "Each person stands alone on their thought on war; since 1969 I have never read two claims that were the same," she added. 
The. tradition of conscientious objection has a long history here at Notre Dame, Garvey said as she invited all to visit Sacred Heart Church. "The bones of a conscientious objec­tor are the bones at the altar­stone in our Church," she said. 
"We should take the beliefs not heard of any talk, either, and declined to speculate on the possibility of a draft. 

All three officers, in telephone interviews Monday, outlined procedures for placement of graduating ROTC students. 
In Army ROTC, said Hemphill, students in the beginning of their senior years make a list of requests as to where they want to be stationed and/or what oc­cupation they want to enter. A student can request anything . from an active duty infantry unit to a reserve duty trans­portation unit, he said. It is also possible for a student to request an "educational delay," in which he or she can postpone their activatio~ in order to attend graduate school. 
A board of officers in the Army's military personnel de.­partment in Washington then try to match requests for each student based on the following criteria: 
•G.P.A.-Hemphill 
said that this was the most important criterion; 

•performance 
at summer camp which each ROTC student completes before his -Or her se­nior year; 

•faculty 
evaluation of each student. 


While students in NO's Army ROTC, which presently numbers about 200, have had a higher "satisfaction rate" in their placements than the national average, there have been cases in the past where, for example, a student who requested a reserve unit was placed in an active unit. However, said Hemphill, it is not the policy of the Army to automatically place the best-
that we have learned and apply them to everyday life and to the war in the Persian Gulf," Cortright said. The draft boards are already in place and these same moral issues may confront all of us in the near future. 
If a draft occurs it will begin with 20 year-old males, fol­lowed by the ages of 21, 22-25, and those between 26 and 34 qualified students in active units even if they have requested reserve units. 
Air Force ROTC students do no face the possibility of re­questing a reserve a unit and ending up in active, said Hanson, because all Air Force ROTC cadets automatically go active. There are 177 students in ND's Air Force ROTC. 
The criteria for Air Force ROTC, in terms of placing graduating cadets, is similar to that of Army ROTC. Hanson said that Air Force cadets are not placed in the reserves be­cause there is not as great a demand for young officers in the reserves as there is in the Army reserves. 
Navy ROTC also uses similar criteria in matching cadets with their requests, said Vislay. She said G.P.A. was the primary cri­terion because, unlike in past years, job placement within the Navy has been highly competi­tive due to personnel cutbacks. 
Students in Navy ROTC, which number about 315, have the option of entering the Marines. These students automatically go to the Marines Basic School. Their placement is more equally distributed, said Vislay, in that the top three or four candidates cannot be assigned to the same unit, but the fifth best candidate could possibly be assigned to the same unit as the top candidate. There are presently 28 Navy ROTC students who intend to enter the Marines. 
All three officers agreed that it is impossible to judge whether the Persian Gulf Crisis has had any effect on enroll­ment in the three NO ROTC programs. 
that have served and been re­leased from the military, Garvey said. Eighteen and 19 year-olds will be drafted last. 
Each day that goes by there are more people marching and chanting to support the troops. "The only way to support the troops is to pray for peace and end the insanity now," Cortright said. 
Source: Jane's Weapons Systems, AP research AP/Jeff Magness 
American pilot rescued from desert by fellow troops 
from Myrtle Beach, S.C., spent over eight hours in the air, re­fueling four times as they lo­cated the Navy pilot around midday and talked to him over the radio. 
A plan was formed to bring in the rescue helicopter. 
"It is really exciting -the fact that you think the guy is going to get rescued," Goff said. "My mind was just rushing." 
As the rescue helicopter neared the pre-arranged pickup spot, a large Iraqi truck drove into the area, apparently headed straight for the rescue site. 
"Unfortunately, the truck was in the wrong place at the wrong time," Goff said. 
The two A-1Os raked the ve­hicle with 30mm machine guns. The truck was left smoking and in flames as the helicopter ar­rived. The downed pilot broke from cover and ran to safety. It was the only time the two A-10 flyers saw him. 
"The adrenalin was pumping for two hours after the pickup," Johnson said. "It's still pumping now." 

Law and Graduate 
Students ' 

ATTENTION 
ICEBERG DEBATES The Judgesl seminars will be held on January 22, 30 & 31 12:30-1:30pm in the Sorin Room of LaFortune Center 
Please Come 


DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) -In a daring dash into enemy territory, a U.S. Air Force rescue mission plucked a downed Navy pilot from the Iraqi desert Monday and flew him back to safety, military of­ficials said. 
An Air Force search-and-res­cue helicopter picked up the A­6 "Intruder" pilot shortly after two A-1 0 ground support bombers strafed an Iraqi army truck headed straight toward the airman, Air Force officers said. 
"We could not allow him (the truck) to be there," said Capt. Randy Goff, one of the A-1 0 "Warthog" pilots. "We couldn't take the risk." 
Military officials did not re­lease the identity of the rescued flyer. · 
They said he ejected into a featureless expanse of the desert after being hit by ground fire while taking part in the bombing of Iraq. 
Goff, 26, from Jackson, Ohio, and Capt. Paul Johnson, 32, of Dresden, Tenn., members of the 354th Tactical Fighter Wing 
FacultyI_ 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Tuesday, January 22, 1991 page 7 
Question of Gulf War as 'just' debated on campus 
By SHANNON RYAN 
News Writer 
The ethic of the just war ar­gument is like a series of vec­tors that tries to contain a beast, and the beast is warfare, Father Bryan Hehir told his audience Monday. 
Hehir, a counselor for social policy for the U.S. Catholic Conference, sought to offer "both a functional and substan­tive assessment" of Operation Desert Storm by presenting the just war theory's relation to ethical, political. and strategi­cal issues of the military cam­paign. , 
According to Hehir, the fun­damental premise of the just war theory is a presumption against the use of force. "The difference between passivists and just war theorists is that this (anti-force) presumption is not an absolute... in some ex­treme cases the use of force can be accepted," Hehir said. 
When considering whether a situation qualifies as an "extreme case," three questions must be addressed. "In order to override the presumption that war is not 'good' or 'acceptable'," said Hehir, "we must determine why can force be used in the situation and what purpose it serves; when can force be used and under what conditions; and how can force be used in a justifiable manner,"said Hehir. 
Hehir further said that each of the three questions in turn yields additional moral criteria. In reference to the "why" question, just cause mandates that "force is used to protect the innocent, restore basic human rights, or re-establish conditions for dignified human existence." 
The "when" question can only be morally met if "massive and 
Targeting Scud Missiles 
Finding mobile launchers Is a high priority~--~ 
i@h;€1  . . ' ·a-~!lll,)l!ij!!!ll!ll!i!!iif!l!;:g'-­ 
Tracks  Uses radar and visual  Monitors  
launcher  identification to search  and detects  
movements  ~"­ and destroy. Danger  movement  
and locations.  ~  exists entering into  from orbit.  
Operates radar  unfriendly territory.  
usingnewtechnology to  ~ -­• • -.:  
see over the  ·  
hmOo~  />  \  ·,, ·•••• ••,  

Specially adapted version of a cargo SCUD MISSILE truck, offers good cross-country capability. MOBILE LAUNCHER 

AP!Cynrhia Greer, T. Dean Caple 

Schedule of Classes 
Monday/Wednesday 
6:30-7:30 am Ll Aerobics JACC Gym 1 12:10-12:50 pm Ll Aerobics Rockne Rm 219 4:00-5:00 pm HI Aerobics JACC Gym 1 4:00-5:00 pm HI Aerobics JACC Gym 2 5:15-6:15 pm Combo Aerob JACC Gym 1 6:45-7:45 pm Water Aerob Rolfs Pool 9:00-10:00 pm Combo Aerob Rockne Room 219 
significant" injustice exists. In addition, force must be pursued by proper authorities who pos­sess the right intentions, and there must be some reasonable hope for successful results. 
In assessing the fulfillment of the "how" criteria. the princi­pies of discrimination and pro­portionality must be met. "Discrimination refers to the fact that even if there is just cause, you can't fight the whole society," Hehir said. "The use of force must be limited to the initiators of the aggression. Proportionality involves a tacti­cal decision concerning the re­lationship between the good to be achieved and the damage that' will result." 
Applying the just war theory to the context of a "changing Catholic community," Hehir ex­plained that conflicting opln­ions arise because some people believe that the original ques­tion should not be when the use the use of force) expanded, the of force is legitimatized, but if it compelling moral quality de­is ever legitimized. "Essentially, clined because some of these is the just war theory an reasons don't qualify as legiti­elaboration or a corruption of mate. Oil, in particular. is vac-the gospel?", he asked. uous as a moral argument." 
Hehir characterized public "If it-were my decision, I debate as both encouraging would not have gone to war on and significant. The unpro-January 17 ... but now that we voked Iraqi aggression against are there, I have a difficult time Kuwait and the human rights saying the whole thing is un­violations that have occurred just," Hehir said. "provide the clearest, best rea-"War is a blunt and bloody son for the use of force. "said instrument of human abjudica-Hehir, " ... the invasion poses tion," Hehir said. "The function both an intrinsic threat (to of the just war ethic is not to Kuwaitis) and a systemic threat make it easier to go to war, but to a world of sovereign states." to make it more difficult."· 
' 

Hehir also cited the defense Hehir emphasized that politi­of Kuwait and the deterrence of cal and ethical considerations an attack on Saudi Arabia as must be fused in applying the valid, just reasons for the de­theory, but expressed concern ployment of troops, deeming about associating the war with this "a proportionate· re­religion. "No more religious sponse." wars," he said. "It's hard 
However, Hehir continued enough to justify the war, we that "as the list of reasons (for must•never consecrate it." 
U.N. should make 'presence felt' says ND history professor 

By KEVAL.EEN RYAN News Writer 
In response to the recent of­fensive launched against Iraq by the international coalition of nations, Bernard Norling, pro­fessor emeritus of History, said the United Nations will never have a better opportunity to make its presence felt. 
"In an ideal world United Nations would be ... effective against [the aggressive actions) of every state. Practically, it is impossible to do so. " However, the current efforts to repel the blatant aggression of "one iso­lated desert nation" is the clos­est the Untied Nations has ever come to fulfilling its ideal pur­pose. 
In the events that have un­folded since the initial invasion perienced considerable loss of life and material damage with no apparent gain for either party. Any other country would be adverse to provoking a an­other war in such quick succes­sion without allowing the "nation a chance to recover both materially and psychologi­cally." 
It is this psychological factor, said Norling, that will prove in­strumental in the outcome of the current conflict. 
"Mter eight years of war with Iran, Iraqi morale [is likely toJ crack quickly ... Once morale is gone, nothing else matters," he said. 
However, according to Norling, this will not be an easy victory. As a result of this pro­longe'd war with an equally powerful Arab nation. the Iraqi 

of Kuwait, Norling, who teaches military has gained a signifi­a class entitled "European cant amount of experience, Armies and Warfare," especially in the area of ground expressed some surprise at forces. Saddam Hussein's adamance so Although the United States soon after Iraq ended its eight­and its allies have gained air year-long conflict with Iran. superiority and have destroyed 
According to Western ac­a significant amount of Iraqi counts, he said. both sides ex-land artillery, "who knows how much they have buried under 
NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 
U +AEROBICS FITNESS 
Friday 4:00-5:00 pm Combo Aerob JACC Gym 1 
Sunday 9:00-10:00 pm Combo Aerob Rockne Am 219 
mountains" or other remote 
places, he said. 

According to Norling, it is important to analyze the his­tory of the region to understand its modern conflicts. Prior to World War I, the majority of the Middle Eastern nations, then a group of nationalistic Arab tribes, were under the rule of the Ottoman Empire. This empire, which had been slowly collapsing for centuries, allied with Germany and Italy to form the Central Powers in the first world war. 
In an attempt to "neutralize Thrkey [Ottoman Empire] as. an enemy nation," England stirred rebellion within various Arab factions against the foreign government, said Norling. 
Different British interest groups promised opposing Arab tribal leaders sovereignty over Palestine (now Israel, Lebanon and part of Jordan) in return for increased aggression against the Turkish govern­ment, he said. In addition, England and her allies also agreed to establish Israel as a "national home for the Jews." 
According to Norling. "this is [part of] the source of the trouble [in the Middle East] ... there is no possible way to rec­oncile all these promises." Furthermore, not only did these Arabs feel exploited by stronger Western powers, but their inter-regional feuds and animosities prevented them from uniting to take effective action. 
Other than isolated ambushes against the Ottoman Empire, Norling said that Israel is the only foreign nation upon whom Arabs have continuously de­clared war. "Although Israel is geographically located in the Middle East, it is Western in the sense of its military superior­ity," he said. 
Thus, it is the intention of Saddam to involve Israel in this , conflict and play upon the anti­Zion sentiment among the Gulf countries. In this way. Norling said, "it would be easier for Saddam to persuade Arab na­
see GULF I page 5 


• 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday,Janua~22, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor...........•.••..•..••. Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VI-point Editor •••.•.•.•••••••Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ••...••••••••••••••••Greg Guffey Production Manager· ............. IJsa Eaton Accent Edltor•......•.•.••.••. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor •••••••.•••.....•.••..•••Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ••••.•..Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the ·majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

society, everybody  may  be  judgment lies entirely in the  pursuits?  
equally free with respect to  hands of the Magisterium) It  From the Christian point of  
negative freedom, it will hardly  follows, then, that anyone who  view, such questions must be  
ever be the case that everybody  teaches contrary to Christ's  answered in the negative, and  
has  the  same  "positive"  teaching necessarily teaches  for a very simple reason:  sin.  
freedom.  falsehood,  and,  hence,  Each of us is, in the first place,  
What is the analogue to this  necessarily tends to lead his  born defective, with a darkened  
type of freedom in the realm of  pupils away from wisdom.  intellect and a deficient will.  
the university? To risk sounding  A Catholic university, there­ This  is  original  sin-th~  
quaint, the primary purpose of  fore, insofar as it wishes to  disinclination to our true goods.  
a  university  is  to  lead  its  remain Catholic, has the duty to  But on top of this original  
members to truth and wisdom.  uphold Christ's teachings, and,  defectiveness, there are heaped  
Thus, the garnering of wisdom  insofar as it is a university, it  all our countless personal sins,  
is the analogue to personal ful­ has the duty to lead its mem­ which  bring  with  them  a  
By Jon Beane  itself from archaic forms of  fillment, from which it follows that the robust sense of aca­ bers to truth and wisdom. The truly fortunate thing about a  further darkening of our intellect (since sin, by its  
academic repression and possi­ demic freedom consists in the  Catholic university (and this is a  essence, is a spiritual distanc­ 
Last semester, The Observer printed a flurry of letters con­ bly join the ranks of "great" schools such as Harvard,  protection of this wisdom. That is, it consists in freedom from  point often completely over­looked by many champions of  ing from God, who is Light). It is no wonder, then, that the truth  
cerning the issue of academic  Berkeley,and Stanford?  error. Not every choice a person  academic freedom) is that many  is so difficult to find.  
freedom, especially such free­ The full notion of freedom,  makes will fulfill that person;  points of inquiry are already  By myself, a veritable wretch  
dom at a  Catholic university.  however, extends much further  why  should  we  think  that  known to be true. Hence, if one  living in darkness and error, I  
Many of these arguments, how­ than this negative freedom.  anything  a  person  learns  need  not  undertake  an  am unable to find the truth. I  
ever, were based upon an inad­ True freedom consists, in the  equally promotes that person's  investigation into them, they  must depend upon others. But  
equate understanding of the notion of freedom and, thus, were necessarily at odds with certain positions taken by the Church. Hence, they went against certain positions taken  case of individuals, in the abil­ity to "make the most .of one­self." Unlike other creatures, we humans have the responsi­bility to create the type of indi­vidual we are; the fulfillment of  quest for wisdom? Not even our "great" institutions of higher learning allow their faculty to teach "flat earth" geology. At a Catholic university, how­ever, the notion of true aca­ 'The truly fortunate thing about a Catholic ·univeristy is that manypoints are alreadyknown to be true.'  everyone else is likewise in the dark; how, then, can I depend upon them? The answer is that, in a sense, I can depend on no one marred by the blackness of sin. I can depend only on Christ,  
by the administration of this  our nature is not something  demic freedom becomes further  that is, as His life and teachings  
University. But if the notion of  that comes about automatically.  nuanced. The Catholic Church  only require dissemination. To  are made known to me, which  
freedom is to be understood in  It results from the choices we  claims that, because she is the  debate such points (such as last  is  through  the  Church  He  
its fullest sense, I submit, such  make.  Humans  are  self­ visible body of Jesus Christ and  semester's formal debate about  founded.  It  is  sometimes  
controversies could be easily  determining.  has inherited the promised gift  abortion) is very dangerous,  difficult, of course, to admit  
avoided.  However, it often happens  of the Holy Spirit, there are a  since  there  is  a  very  real·  that, by ourselves,  we  are  
We often think of freedom as  that some choices we  make  great many issues which she  possibility that some people will  bound to arrive at erroneous  
consisting entirely in what is  actually lessen our freedom  has already irrevocably and in­ be encouraged, via the rhetoric  beliefs regarding matters of  
sometimes called "negative"  (regardless of how free we may  fallibly settled. That is, the  of the friends of falsehood, to  fundamental importance. But  
freedom (i.e. a freedom from  be from external restrictions);  Church knows the truth con­ adopt false opinions.  such an admission constitutes  
external restrictions). Thus, the fewer the external restrictions,  that is, some choices weaken our capacity to make the most  cerning some things, even be­fore any academic body con­ There is a further sense in which the notion of academic  the necessary first step of true conversion.  
the greater one's freedom.  or ourselves. For example, a  venes to discuss the matter.  freedom differs at a Catholic  Christ said that the truth will  
When placed in an academic  person may choose (free form  It would have been absurd,  university. It may be thought  make us free. But such freedom  
setting, this notion of freedom  external restraints) to drop out  for example, for anyone to have  that this view of academic free­ cannot be identified with abso­ 
roughly translates to the fol­ of high school or to become  questioned the truth of Christ's  dom, despite its initial plausibil­ lute personal autonomy; we all  
lowing:  A university attains  addicted to cocaine. Such a  teaching that a person who  ity, infringes greatly upon the  need guidance. Let the secular  
academic freedom only to the extent that restrictions are not  person, however, thereby weakens his capaclty to fulfill  looks with lust at a woman has .sinned (Matthew 5:28). How  "sanctity" of the individual's choice, even if it is a false  universities go their wa.y. That is their own business. But let  
placed upon the curricula, the  himself. Such a person is, in  could God be wrong about that?  choice. Why should I bow down  us, at the University of Our  
professors, the kinds of invited  general, less· free than others  (Nonetheless,  the  exact  to some authority, to accept  Lady, go her way, which is the  
outside speakers, etc. Our secu­ who choose to continue their  meaning of this teaching is  humbly and docilely the teach­ way of her Son.  
lar universities veritably em­ education  or  to  find  less  open to inquiry; academics can  ings of other people? Cannot I,  
body such a notion of freedom. So, the argument goes, why  nefarious forms of amusement. Thus, even though, in a given  greatly assist such an inquiry, even though the ultimate  by myself, find the truth via my own experiences and scholarly  Jon Beane is a graduate student in philosophy.  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  


50 AVW IM AT A at/8 FUU­
OF SPOIU30 5AU[)/ YUPPieS, 
/N5Ttf.A[) OFWITH aJR 7ROOP5 ON TH& fRONT UNe-3, fA/HeRe I'M /ilrl/NtNTZ-Y, CON5P/CUOIJ5I.,Y, T0/38! 
'Planning. Action. That is the say. Not oratory. One doer better than forty talkers.' 
William Macken Irish Author 
----------------------------·---~-----~-""""'1 
Viewpoint
Tuesday,Janua~22, 1991 
page 9 

Withhold support for Bush to LETTERS avoid long, protracted war Malloy fails to 
thefocus off of his son's
Rev. SteP.hen P. voice his
questionable
Newton, C.S.C. S&L 
activities-even start a war!
Campus Ministry position on
How shocking it is to learn that the President spent three
I agree with President George crisis in Gulf
weeks preparing his address to
Hush. In his open letter to 
the nation, to be delivered after Dear Editor: 
American college students (The his attack had started. Had he I call upon Father Malloy, asObserver, Jan. 16), he stresses shown any sign of having given the president of this leadingthat the support of college stu­even 10 percent of that energy Catholic institution, to make adents is imperative in this time to willingness to negotiate a statement regarding the U.S.
of crisis. if America's efforts to 
assert its right over peaceful settlement, his claim war against Iraq. Is this war
Iraq's 

that all other means had failed acceptable in terms of thewrong are to prevail. I fully might be more credible. Catholic Just War Criteria? Areagree: If the President's efforts 
After the recent Russian we, the women and men of 
are to succeed. the support of atrocity in Lithuania, President Notre Dame, to condemn ormembers of college and univer­Bush issued a statement saying support the death of Kuwaitis. 
sity communities is essential. If that there are no grounds that Israelis, Iraqis and Americans?
such support is not forthcom­could justify such violence, and What does utility call for? Weing, the President's efforts will he urged Russia to quit fight­look to you: Father Malloy, forprobably fail. · ing. Time magazine must be thoughtful guidance. And I. as aTherefore, I urge members of 
right. There are two George student, demand leadership
the University community to 
Bush's, and they don't seem to from our leader.
withhold such support. I urge Dear Editor: leftover Vietnam panic to hin­
have met yet. Julianna White
members of the University As an American, I enjoy the der Bush's plan. It has been re­
It is sadly true that horrors Off-campus
community to do their part to right to speak my mind freely ported over and over again how 
have been inflicted by Hussein Jan.18, 1991
make sure that President about issues such as Operation aware Hussein is of this coun­
in Iraq and they should not
Bush's intentions are not ful­Desert Storm. So, although I try's Vietnam complex. Why do Hussein's brutal 
have been. It is also true that
filled. I base this advice on my did not agree with the majority you think he was so interested
horrors have been inflicted by
perception that it is not peace of speakers at the protest in American's reactions to the
Bush-led enterprises in El acts sway peace
that President Bush desperately staged on Thursday, Jan. 17. I attack? Contrary to popular
Salvador and Chile and
seeks (except by some different am grateful, as we all should opinion, Hussein is not crazy; proponent's views 
Panama. They shouldn't have
spelling, perhaps, by bombing be, for the right to question and he is a crafty, manipulative
been, either. But no dark evil
Iraq into pieces). nor is it the ·to criticize our government oppressor. He knows his Dear Editor: 
righting of wrong that he and can undo some other dark evil. publicly. It is a right many military capabilities cannot The crisis in the Persian Gulf So, let's get the message to
his rhetoric pursue; rather. his countries-notably Iraq-do hold against the support of a creates mixed emotions for us 
intent is to impose his logically President Bush. Let's let him not recognize. This freedom of 28-nat:ion coalition. His only all. I don't believe that guns can 
know that the members of the 
limited view of right on the en­speech raises a very important hope is that peace demonstra­solve many problems. But I do 
University of Notre Dame
tire world. point I was unable to verbalize tions will significantly hinder applaud those who stand 
community know that he needs
Come to think of it, that's at the demonstration. operations of countries like the against brutality, just as I 
our support in order to get
Hussein's intent, too. Their In Saddam Husseins' regime, United States. applaud those who light against 
away with starting a war to
rhetoric varies and their meth­the likes of the KKK. the "skin­
such dissent is not tolerated. We must not let our freedomsettle the atrocities committed
ods are radically different, but His power is absolute and un­become such a weakness. I am heads.. or gun-slinging drug
by Saddam Hussein. Let's let
their intentions appear to be questionable. The Iraqi f)eople not advocating blind and silent lords. 
him know that we refuse to
extremely similar-to have obey him out of fear. For ex­faith. However, we must pull I'm not an expert on politics
give him that support.
their own way. at any cost and ample, his soldiers were told if or ethics. I don't know if this is
together as a nation to support
Without our support, there
without compromise or they did not participate in the not only the brave men and really a war for the freedom of 
can be no long, protracted war.
negotiation. rape and pillage of Kuwait, women of the armed forces Kuwait or for the cheap
and other means of establishing gasoline of the Americans. LikeOur president-formerly head they and their families would who chose to serve, but also the 
peace will have to be found.
of a CIA that can match any be executed, an all too real presi.dertt we democratically most of us. I was raised to 
That will really make George believe that peaceful solutionsSaddam point for point in threat. elected. Division among our­
the man he so desperatelY
atrodty and deviousness-does Hussein demands su.ch obedi­selves is what Hussein wants. should be sought in any 
seems to want to go down as in
tend to see life in very unam­ence because he believes ques­expects and needs. As situation. But when I think of 
history as: one who does not
biguous terms: start a war or tions will lead to doubts. which Abraham Lincoln said, "A the ruthless acts of men like 
be a wimp -the only choice is wimp out with the easiest per­could lead to his own people house divided cannot stand." Saddam Hussein, I can only ask 
ceived solutions. The best sup­
in asserting one's testosterone realizing how illegitimate his Let us not allow our questions myself one question: How 
port we can give our president
level; negotiation is weakness, position is. He is afraid he and criticisms of our govern­much brutality and suppression
and our service men and
so no concessions. Just ultima­might lose his power. In other ment escalate to the point that can one man be allowed before 
women is to do whatever it 
he must be stopped? This is atums. What is economically ad­words. Hussein perceives the it seriously impairs the plans of 
takes to get them out of the 
question for which you should
vantageous for the United right to speak out freely as a the administration. We must
Middle East without having to
States is inherently moral. The weakness, and, therefore, he support the Desert Storm have an answer before you
kill or be killed. 
American way of life and stan­denies that right. Operation. stand in protest. 
Rev. Stephen P. Newton is
dard of living takes precedence It is my opinion that Hussein Sheila Buckman John Hawes 
Director of Special Projects for 
m1er human life. A father must is counting on Americans' free­Siegfried Hall Off-campus
Campus Ministry. 
do whatever it takes to take dom of speech to breed enough Jan. 17. 1991 Jan. 20, 1991 
Unified homefront is imperative for American success in Middle East 
U.S. home front-that is, our apart. From 1939 to 1941, that the so-called "doves" were out his policies, as Abraham
By Kevin Smant ability to remain unified at Americans struggled with the ever in a clear majority in the Lincoln did-a man who re­home in the face of the question of preparedness. nation at large. mained incredibly resolute in 
It seems a long time ago, 
inevitable trials that war Proposals for reinstituting the Indeed, the shadow of prosecuting the Civil War de­those warm, humid July nights. brings. draft and for aiding the Allied Vietnam continues to fall upon spite anti-war protests and The world appeared to be a History tells us that this has nations under attack by Nazi our policy in the Gulf. Many mounting casualty lists. This 
tranquil place, with peace and 
often been America's Achilles' Germany brought only division have remarked upon the fact was the measure of his great­democracy gaining everywhere 
heel. During the War of 1812 to a nation still disillusioned that observers, both here and ness. -even in our old adversary, against Great Britain, intense from the first "Great War" in abroad, remain uncertain This does not mean that those the Soviet Union. In America, opposition to the conflict. and Europe. Why should we meddle about U.S. Gulf policy. It is ar­protesting the war do not have 
the big summer flap concerned 
to President James Madison, in European problems? gued that this is because they a right to be heard. In fact, they !'resident Bush's renunciation emanated from the New Impassioned speeches rang out are not convinced by President must retain that right. For this of his "no new taxes" pledge, England states. They scornfully in the halls of Congress con­Bush's statements of Allied war to mean anything, we must and. by late July, that topic, too, 
called it "Mr. Madison's War," cerning these questions. And, aims in the region or his rea­continue to espouse democratic was fading. In short, there and many states withheld men although both the draft and sons for attacking now rather principles, which set us apartseemed little to worry about. and money, putting a serious Lend-Lease passed by narrow than later. Perhaps this is so. from our adversary. But polls
"The McLaughlin Group's" dis­
crimp in the war effort. During margins, we were still a But here might also be another show approval of President cussions were tepid; CNN's the Civil War, a very visible divided country on December reason. Bush's Gulf policies to be over combative "Crossfire" show anti-war movement raged in 7, 1941, when Japanese bombs It might also be that people 60 percent, and, more mostly shot blanks. the North. which urged on Pearl Harbor ended the remain unsure whether importantly, the people's
But Saddam Hussein's Aug. 2 President Lincoln to seek a ne­debate once and for all. America really intends to stick elected representatives have, in invasion of Kuwait changed all gotiated peace with the None of the anti-war move­it out. How do people know if effect, endorsed his policies bythat. Now we find ourselves at Confederacy. Many of them, ments discussed so far effec­the American leadership will giving him the authorization to war. at a crossroads in the called "Copperheads" by pro­tively hindered U.S. war keep its resolve in the face of use force. Thus, in short. the Bush presidency and possibly war Republicans, declared that efforts. There has been one noisy and/or violent protests? President must ignore those at an historic moment for our they wouldn't fight for the huge exception to this in our How do our allies know that trying to make policy in the nation. On the minds of most Negro. Indeed, in 1863, rioting history, though-the case of the America won~t cut and run in streets. He must retain the will people has been the question of against the draft was so fierce Vietnam War. Then, a suffi­the face of the all-powerful call to act. whether the U.S. will. or even in New York City that Union ciently large (though still a mi­for "giving peace a chance"? In No doubt this would not should, go to war. But, at this soldiers had to be diverted nority) anti-war faction, aided short: Can this boiling caul­please those who like to shout writing, the bombing of Iraq from Gettysburg in order to by the magnifying glare of TV dron of a democracy called "No More Vietnams." But this is has begun. War is now a fact. quell it. technology, forced one presi­America, where differences are not Vietnam, and if we allow its And so I am struck by another Nor has this merely been a dent (Lyndon Johnson) to retire aired so freely and openly, still shadow to hamstring our question that faces us: Can the 19th Century phenomenon. The from office and frightened an­wage war effectively? credibility in the Gulf, we won't United States effectively wage best example of this in the 20th other (Richard Nixon) suffi­It is this question that stands have to worry about more war? Century comes from the World ciently to persuade him to before us now. In the end, his­Vietnams. This one will last us 
I do not refer here to the War II era. No, not during the begin an irreversible troop tory suggests, it will come a lifetime. competence of American armed war itself; rather, it was in the pullqut. This all occurred, down to the question of leader­Kevin Smart is a graduate stu­forces. In them I have complete years leading up to the war despite the fact that later ship. The leader must show the dent in the department of his­confidence. Instead, I mean the that America nearly tore itself polling analysis did not indicate will and determination to carry tory. 
..... 


.......--~---~------------------------------~--~-----­
Accent 
Page 10 Tuesday, January 22, 1990 
Music presentations by Spike Lee to address racism local community emphasize . . . . .
By TIM MOONEY Another Important activity Accordmg to publicist Marc 
V. f th w AccentWriter for the week will be a discus-Adrian, the Student Union
~ the J ear 0 e oman A~ids_t all the activities oc-sion of racism on Wednesday, Board intends a major 
curnng m honor of the Year of January 30 at 7:30 p.m. The advertising campaign to 

the Woman, the Ide11s and discussion will be open to the increase the campus awareness
By ELIZABETH VIDA 

Issues Commission of the public and will be held at the of these activities. 
Accent Writer 

Student Union Board is also fo-Center for Social Concerns. Past efforts of the commission In keeping with the Year of 
cusing on another important The emphasis on racism during the fall semester
Women, a day long presenta­
topic of social concern this awareness, highlighted by included bringing Maya
tion of women and their roles, 
semester, namely racism. Spike Lee's speech, was one of Angelou to speak on campus asboth historically and recently, The Student Union Board is the crucial goals of the Ideas well as sponsoring the abortion
in the arts, the media, the 
sponsoring multiple activities and Issues Commission. debates.
workplace, and also in society, 
its composer, Amy M.C. concerning the topic of. racism
is planned for Saturday, 
Beach, was "intensely in the upcoming two weeksJanuary 26, titled "A Day of 
romantic and chromatic." culminating with the visit of the Women." It will be held at the 
Beach was a well-known highly acclaimed and contro­
Annenburg Auditorium in the 
pianist and composer in her versial film director Spike Lee. 
Snite Museum. 

Two of the events planned lifetime, and wrote especially After graduating from demanding parts in her Morehouse College in Atlanta,
for Saturday represent 
sonatas and other pieces for Lee began making films at Newwomen's contributions to the the piano, Cerny added. She York University's film school.
musical world. The first, from 
He will speak to the Notre
10:15 a.m. to 10:45 a.m., is a also possessed considerable 
performance of Amy M.C. knowledge of the violin. "She Dame community on Monday, Beach's "Sonata for Violin and was quite popular into the February 4 at 7:30 p.m. at 
Piano in A Minor" by two first two decades of this Stepan Center. century," Cerny said. Ticke~s for this event will go
members of the Notre Dame 
music department faculty: "After her death, however, on sale to only Notre Dame Carolyn Plummer, associate Beach and her work fell into students from Monday, obscurity. This four January 28 through Friday,
professor, on violin, and 
February 1 in LaFortune. For
William Cerny, professor, on movement, traditional romantic period sonata has anyone other than Notre Damepiano. 
Late-r in the day, from 4:30 not been performed much at students, the remaining tickets will be sold beginning January
p.m. to 5:00 p.m., the South all after she died in 1944. 
There's only one existing 30. The tickets will cost $3 forBend Folksingers will perform, 
concluding the day's events. recording of it, and that was ND students and $5 for the by Carolyn Plummer's own general public. As limited
This group, which sings and 
collegiate professor." seating is available, studentsplays traditional folk instru­
ments, includes local Cerny went on to say that are urged to purchase tickets musicians Kim Hoffman, Molly the music for the piece itself is as soon as possible. To initiate a
Moon, and Rosie McCormick. now out of print, and that campus-wide 
Professor Plummer was lucky preparedness for Spike Lee's to get a copy from a library visit, the Student Union Board
'[It will] provide a rare 

and make a copy of it for is planning to hold a Lee film glimpse into women's them to perform. festival this weekend as part of "It's a very melodic piece," their Cushing film series. Three 
composition in the late 

Cerny said when trying to de­of Spike Lee's popular directo­
19th century.' 

scribe it, and it is certainly a rial efforts, "Do the Right piece that would provide a Thing," "Mo' Better Blues," and Professor William Cerny, rare glimpse into women's "School Daze," will be shown who will be performing the compositions in the late 19th this Thursday through piano part of the sonata, said century. Saturday at Cushing 
Auditorium. 
Appreciation for fast-food and fun abounds in London 
And now, back by popular in­yond all help of rejoining nor­rest rocks the Socialist Re­personnel. On the other hand, 
difference, "Lion Taming" re­mal human society. lan Mitchell ~ publics! the concept of Velcro will also turns to the pages of the Ob­Anyway, life in London was But I don't want you to get probably baffle most counter 
Lion Taming personnel.)
server. Just when you though it SO MUCH FUN! We did all sorts the impression that I'm one of was safe to read the Accent of REALLY FUN THINGS which those ugly Americans who 
his birthplace, the school he 'One field in which we
section, hard-hitting comedy pathetic pond scum like you refuse to try foreign food and 
strikes again! went to, and the Pizza Hut he
can only dream about! Besides limit my life experiences to one here in the ol' U.S. of A.
worked long hours in, 'trying
Now, since I spent last London itself, which was, as I fast food joint after another,
desperately to raise the cash still have the world beat 
semester in London, I could may have mentioned, REALLY desperately clinging to one last 
column about HOW needed for plane fare to Holly­
write a FUN, we also toured a number shred of Americana. Please is the wondrous culinary 
wood. He, unfortunately, never
MUCH FUN life in London was, of towns throughout the British don't think for a second that I 
world of quick-service 
but that would seem exclusive succeeded in booking his ticket
countryside. spent all my time abroad eating
to the big time, in part because
and would alienate all those In Stratford Upon-Avon (so breakfast, lunch and dinner at restaurants.' 
he insisted, despite repeated
readers who haven't been over­named because of its location, McDonald's. Why, far from it: seas. It would make me seem to near a major cosmetics com­requests by his boss and ex­due to recent advances in I have to be careful here; I be a cold, unfeeling snob with a pany's headquarters) we visited ceedingly small tips from din­world understanding, Burger don't want to leave you with the superiority complex; a distant, . many historic siglits related to ers, on waiting table in King now also has numerous impression that I'm in any wayaloof, disdainful twit lost be-the life of William Shakespeare: rhyming iambic couplets: restaurants overseas. And bitter toward the Golden Arches 
("Hello my name is William, 
when I tired of the Home of the and its crack team of 
can I take your order please I 
Whopper and craved more employees. Why, just because I
Would you like that pizza with 
exotic fare, Taco Bell was right myself was once turned down 
extra mozzarella cheese?") 
around• the corner with an au­for employment there... oh, I thentic taste of old Mexico. Fi­guess I hadn't mentioned that,
'In Europe, for instance, esta! 
had I? Well, yes, I must admit things are so backward But no, in all seriousness, I'm that I am the only person I've not one of those people whose EVER heard of, including a
that you actually have to 
idea of an exotic dinner is to go number of drooling, typhoid­
pay for EXTRA ketchup.' to one of those McDonald's with carrying, convicted felons (a the themed interiors and leave sizeable group), who has ever, both pickles on their Quarter for any reason whatsoever been 
Anyway, I did learn some 
Pounders with cheese. prevented from joining the
valuable lessons overseas. For 
Aside: You'll notice that in the 'Team McDonald's." ("Free
example, one field in which we 
preceding sentence I was care­Uniforms! Flexible Hours!
here in the ol' U.S. of A. still 
ful to write "Quarter Pounders Cooking in Grease! Wearing
have the world beat is the won­
WITH cheese." This is because, polyester!") But I'm not bitter
in the interests of safety, Mc­about it, really I'm not. 
Donald's no longer sells the
for instance, things are so 
Quarter Pounder without C'mon, ask me again HOW
backward that you actually 
cheese as a regular menu item. MUCH FUN London was. "And
have to pay EXTRA for 
(Secret fact: Actually, you can do you want apple pie with
ketchup. And in the Soviet 
still order it, even though it's that?" Sorry-the flashbacks
Union, the McDonald's has no 
not listed on the overhead dis­are getting much less frequent
large fries and NO happy 
play. Doing so, however, will with the medication, honest.
meals. No wonder so much un­
completely baffie most counter I'm feeling much better now . 

...._ 
Tuesday,Janua~22, 1991 The Observer page 11 
NVA warms up winter with cool variety of activities 
By MARK McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
Even if you are not a varsity athlete, Notre Dame provides a variety of sports activities for all people. This winter is no exception. NVA is sponsoring aetivities ranging from skiing to seuba diving. 
NVA will host both cross country and downhill skiing aetivities. Cross country ski equipment can be rented Thursday through Saturday in­side the Golf Pro Shop entrance in the Hockne Memorial. A dinie for beginners will be held on Wednesday, .January 23 at 4 pm. In addition, NVA will sponsor a race on Saturday, February 9, and an off-campus trip on Sunday, February 17, for eross eountry skiers. There will be a downhill ski trip this Friday, .January 25 to Swiss Valley. Hegistration for the downhill trip will end on Wednesday. 
NVA is organizing a variety of raequetball events, ineluding an interhall racquetball tour­nament. The teams will eonsist of one doubles pair and three singles players. NVA will also sponsor a eampus-wide doubles racquetball competition which will be open to all Notre Dame students, faculty and staff. The registration deadline for both is January 23. 
Volleyball will be offered in a variety of formats. Campus co­ree volleyball is open to all stu­dents, faculty and staff . The teams will be made up of at least eight people with at least three women. The second vol­leyball activity is open to only graduate students, faculty and staff. The deadline for regis­tration for both is January 23. Campus co-ree water volleyball will be open to all Notre Dame students, faculty and staff. The games will be played in the Rolfs Aquatic Center and the registration deadline is January 30. 
Students who swim will have an opportunity to make a splash for their dorm when the NVA team relay swimming meet takes place. There will be a th.ree race limit per person. Dorms must submit a roster which can be changed up until the meet. The deadline for reg­
istration Is January 30. 
NVA will offer Notre Dame 
students, faculty and staff an. 
opportunity to make use of 
their badminton skills when 
NVA sponsors campus doubles· 
badminton. There will be no 
divisions and a match will con­
sist of a best of three format. 
The registration deadline is 
January 30. 
Campus indoor soccer will provide students, faculty and staff the opportunity to play soccer in Loftus. The field will measure 60 by 40 yards. Each team will have a roster mini­mum of 10 players and the format will be five on five plus . the goalies. The deadline for 
registration is January 30. 
NVA will offer people the op­
portunity to receive YMCA 
certification in scuba diving. 
The class will meet for five 
weeks on Sundays in Roekne 
room 218 from 3:30 to 7:30 
pm. The first session will be on 
this Sunday, January 27. 
Students can participate in a 
continuous program in Shorin­
Ryu Karate. This style allows 
students to Jearn to combine 
and coordinate blocking and offensive techniques against a variety of attacks. The class will meet Mondays and Wednesdays from 4:45 until 
6:30 pm in Rockne room 219. The program will begin Wednesday, January 23, and the cost is $15 per semester. 
Stressed-out? Now that a new semester has begun, students. faculty and staff have the opportunity to Jearn yoga principles of breathing and re­laxation to promote emotional well-being and reduce stress. The class will begin Wednesday, January 30, and will last six weeks. The class will take place in room 114 of Loftus and Will .last from 6:30-8 pm. The cost is $15. Sign up at the NVA office. 
If anyone is interested in keeping those New Year exer­cise resolutions, NVA will spon­sor a variety of aerobic activi­ties. Stretchercise is toning, stretching and light exercises to light music. Classes will meet Tuesdays and Thursday from 
5:20 until 6:20 pm in Gym 1 of the Joyce Center. Water aerobics will be a low impact workout that will emphasize aerobic conditioning and mus­cle toning. Classes will be of­fered on a Monday/Wednesday or Tuesday!fhursday schedule. On Mondays and Wednesdays, the class will meet from 6:45 until 7:45 pm. The times for the Tuesdays and Thursdays are 12:15 until 12:45 pm. All classes will be held at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. NVA also sponsors other aerobic classes. All classes will begin January 23 and interested people should register at the NVA office before the class. 

The Century Club presents students with an incentive to exercise. Students pick an ae­tivity and a distance of their choice. All students have to do is keep track of their miles and when the student reaches the goal, that student receives a T­shirt. 
Anyone interested in Red Cross Programs should contact the NVA office. The phone number is 239-6100 and the of­fice will be happy to answer any questions about any activities that are offered this semester. 
The Observer accepts ctassifleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3p.m. All 
classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2-cents per character per day. including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

VIDEO OF MIAMI PEP RALLY SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER 2 AND 3 BEDROOM HOMES LOOKING FOR A SUMMER JOB? Arthur and Jeanne, CHILDREN'S CAMPS· CLOSE TO CAMPUS COMPANY REPRESENTATIVES Welcome to my 10:10.1 think we
Doesn't have to be perfect. Will
NOTICES ) NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN 232-3616 WILL BE AT THE SUMMER JOB can officially declare you two
pay going rate. Call parent collect evenings 518-273-2792. WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO FAIR -JACC MONOGRAM ROOM 'joined at the hip.' I'll enjoy USED TEXTBOOKS SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL Furnished efficiency -across JAN. 23. 1 to 5 p.m. TO DISCUSS exploring 'Relations' with you. 
25% off list price SUMMER JOBS POOL AND LAKES IN THE street from bus stop $225 SUMMER EMPLOYMENT Love and kisses, Pandora's Books 233-2342 ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, call Brenden x1870 OPPORTUNITIES. BRING A secret admirer corner of ND ave and Howard PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL COPIES OF YOUR RESUME. P.S. "I shall wade through the Red 
EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: Large Furnished Turtle Creek Sea, but I shall not drink of it...'
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS TYPING AVAILABLE NEAR LAKE PLACID CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, Stud. Apt 5 min from campus THINK SUMMER! THINK 287-4082 CALL 1-800-343-8373. MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) $390 neg 234-1539 SUMMER INTERNS! IRISH MUSIC & DANCE 
381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR OPPORTUNITY TO MEET FRIDAY, JAN 25 AT CLUB 23 Please join us in our prayer for ACCENT ON FUN! Coed, WRITE: CAMP VEGA. P.O. BOX COMPANY REPRESENTATIVES "The Return of the Cellist" peace at the Center for Social sleepaway camp in Massachusetts 1771. DUXBURY, MA 02332 FOR SALE AT THE SUMMER JOB FAIR­with (sounds like Hay Machine) 
SEAMAISIN

Concerns chapel each weekday seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI, (617) 934-6536. WED.• JAN. 23 JACC evenmg at 5:15. lifeguard, tennis, arts & crafts, all For Sale: NINTENDO SYSTEM MONOGRAM ROOM -1 to 5 p.m. Pax Chrlsti-ND land & water sports. fitness. 
and GAMES. Best offer. Call277-BRING COPIES OF RESUME. WANTED: An excited electron ATIENTION 4677. from Wheaton!
gymnastics, piano/play for shows, Spring Break '91
PORTUGUES LANGUAGE drama, judo, dance, archery, CAMPUS BANDS: Cancun Style! Mike F. is the real life Mr. Burns
TUTOR: photography, computers, model BRAZILIAN GRAD STUDENT, rocketry. guitar, radio, video, Local restauranVIounge is looking 82 Dodge, automatic, some body 7 nights at Beachfront Hotel. from "The Simpsons": -cALL AOSALI 283·4629 lor college bands to perform. For damage, runs great, best offer, call Round trip air from Chicago. "I'd like to remind the court that I'm
yearbook. newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, RN. further information call 272-8954. 288-6709. Free cover charges, Great a very rich and impor-
TO THE PERSON WHO TOOK MY 6/23-8/26. CAMP EMERSON. 5 Ask for Amy Razz discounts, Beach activities tant personIll" CLOTHES FROM BADIN Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY 82 VOLVO, GREAT COND. and contests. LAUNDRY SAT. NIGHT: I know 10707. 800-955-CAMP. PIONEER STEREO Prices from $469, for more 
ADOPTION: Christian couple who you are. Your famlies' pets will info. call Tore at 289-3336 or
$1900 OR B/0, 272-4223 seeks to adopt white infant. 
soon be dead. Juggler's Needed for Mardi Gras Reggie at 277-7684. Financially secure home in suburban area. Expenses paid.
ATIENTION: Excellent income for Party on Feb. 7 
home assembly work. 504-646-Please call Ellen 284-4378 or FOR SALE: '81 FORD ESCORT, Holy Apostle, St. Jude, faithful Legal/confidential. Answer our ad\ LOST/FOUND 1700 DEPT. P5868. Patsy 284-4420 $500 OR B.O. 234-2728 (RICK) servant and friend of Jesus, the and answer our prayers. Please Church honors and invokes you as call Harry and Melody collect at 
-HELP-: LOST ON TUESDAY Intelligent hardworking indi­the patron of hopeless cases, of (219) 259-0585 any time. NIGHT SUMMER JOBS viduals sought for book trade. things almost dispaired of. Pray for THREE LOOSE KEYS. ROOM 15+ hours/wk, $5/hr. Call288-1 002 me, I am so helpless and alone.
\PERSONALS' 
Mike Richardson and John Kroepfl

#115, P.O. BOX 1214, AND A COUNSELORS/SUMMER after 5 pm. Send resume to PO Box Make use of that particular BUSINESS KEY-AROUND CHILDREN'S 4621, S. Bend, IN 46634 A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 privilege given to you to bring tongue-wrestle with barnyard DAYS ONLY $2791 JAMAt<!A & visible and speedy help where help animals. 11m Rogers is still Sinead
ALUMNI, MORRISSEY, OR LA CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP FOATUNE.(OR BETWEEN THE SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY, I need a ride to Bloomngtn or Indy FLORIDA 6 £1AYS $2991 is almost dispaired of. Come to my O'Connor. Tom Gibbons is Boy THREE) IF ANY OR ALL ARE TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST this weekend, please call Matt at DAYTONA $159! PANAMA CITY assistance in this great need that I George. Blair O'Connor plays with FOUND, CALL 284-4308. THANK 2984. $991 SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1-may receive the consolation and vaseline and gerbils.
HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE YOU II FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: 
800-638-6786. help of heaven in my necessities tribulations, and sufferings, There Is no greater wonder than 
ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL, BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, 
FOR RENT Band looking for BASSIST particularly (make request) and the way the face of a young Lost: gold and pearl-face DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS, call Greg 234-1 048 or Scott 282-that I may praise woman fits in a man's mind and watch w/ black strap. Please FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, FURNISHED 6 OR 7 BEDROOM 1557 God with you and all the elect stays there, and he could never tell call x3948. Thanks GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOME NEAR CAMPUS. forever. I promise, Oh blessed St. you why; It just seems It was the HOCKEY, HORSEBACK­
SECURITY SYSTEM. NEXT FALL Jude. to be ever mindful of this thing he wanted. LOST: BLACK COAT WITH RED ENGLISH, JUGGLING, KARATE, OR SUMMER. 272-6306 PETER 
POP FARLEY TALENT SHOW IS great favor, to always honor you as PATIERN LINING AT THE LACROSSE, NATURE, GILLIS. TONIGHT AT 7:30 in my special and powerful patron, Dearest Malini. .. . COMMONS WEDNESDAY NIGHT. THEODORE'SIIII and to gratefully encourage One question.... why were ALL the
PHOTOGRAPHY, PIANO, towels wet in Florida? A little bird 
CALL CARRIE 283·1250. ROCKETRY, ROLLERBLADING, QUAINT APTS. NEAR N.D. devotion to you. Amen. 
told me of such goings on....do you

-furnished efficiency $225 Don't miss your one-time chance Thank you St. Jude for prayers have any sort of explanation? 
ROPES. SAILBOARDING, 
LOST: Brown leather aviator jacket. SAILING, SCUBA, SOCCER, -upstairs 1 bedroom $255 to watch your favorite answered. 
or do you need ten minutes?

Lost at Senior Bar on Thursday TRACK, WATER SKI. WEIGHTS, -downstairs 1 bedroom $265 FARLEYITES make complete fools night. Call #1190. WOOD. MEN CALL OR WRITE: deposit, references 616-483-9572 of themselves. Betty, CAMP WINADU. 5 GLEN LANE, 
It is definitely coming out week. ND WOMEN'S SWIM TEAM.... Found-gold wedding band. Call MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) FREEDOM! Rent the best houses, FARLEVITES: In case you've been Ahh...well...l might as well do my Let's get ready to beat the Bonnies 283-2917 to ID. 381·5983. WOMEN CALL OR prime locations. 233-9947. living under a rock, here's a coming out with you. I'm waiting for and Cleveland State! 
WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX reminder that SATURDAY is POP the tide to go out. FOUND: Cross Pen by Arch Build. 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 FARLEY '91. Fire up lor A NIGHT Love, What the mind believes the body lnit. "R?N" If yours call x3470 & ID (617) 934-6536. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY OF CELEBRATIONS, and if you Butch achieves. Don't forget CANCEL Ill 
color and MI. 219-291-7153. don't have a date yet, GET ONE! 
'Nuff said. SAVE THIS NUMBER LOST: GOLD RIM FRAMED ANYONE INTERESTED IN if you plan on roadtripping to IU, GLASSES. POSSIBLY LOST TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER TAKING OVER A LEASE AT Ball State or U of Day1on sometime BETWEEN BP AND D2. IF CHILDREN'S CAMPS­RUNAWAY BAY, PLEASE CALL Arthur, the real irony of it all is that this semester and need a rider to FOUND PLEASE CALL X1279. NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN 255-7815. I'm sick of your sappy classifieds. help with gas$$$: X1177 and ask 
NEEDED IMMEDIATELY-AM WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN 
P.S. LEAVE ME THE HELL for John. 
BLIND W/0 THEM. THANKS. THE NORTHEAST. GOOD ALONE! SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to do you love? TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN campus. Only $150/month. Call SUMMER JOB FAIR! JACC Please write.
WANTED Paul287-2159. MONOGRAM ROOM -WED.,
CALL OR WAITE: CAMP VEGA, 
JAN. 23 -1 to 5 p.m. MEET WITH MALE SENIORS-Were your Roomate lor two bedroom 02332 (617) 934-6536. MEN CALL Party-timet Furn. 2,4,5 bedrm. COMPANY REPRESENTATIVES senior pictures numbered townhouse at Turtle Creek OR WAITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 homes. Safe. priv. park, AND DISCUSS SUMMER FE-1111? You have dark wanted. Bedroom Is furnished. GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NV washer/dryer, beach V-ball EMPLOYMENT. BRING COPIES hair, are wearing a yellow Contact 11m at x2506. 10543 (914) 381-5983. court. Bruce 234-3831 or OF YOUR RESUME. ALL tie, blue shirt and dark coat. 288-5653 MAJORS WELCOME. They were delivered to me by mistake, call Julie at •4816. 
P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY. MA 


Scoreboard 
Tuesday,Janua~22, 1991
page 12 
NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS 
MEN'S TOP 25 MEN'S TENNIS RESULTS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE The Top T-nty FMI tearTlllln the Asaociated WALES CONFERENCE

Men's Tennis vs. Tenn98889
AU1111tlc Dlvlalon 

Press 1990-91 college baSkatball poll, with first· Patrick Dlvlalon
SINGLES
w L Pet. GB place Vol98 In parenth9898, records through Jan. w L T Pta
1. Dave OILucla (NO) beat Brice Karsh, 6-2, 6-2Boston 29 9 .763 
20 total points baSed on 25 points for a first place NY Rangers 26 16 8 60
2. Chuck Coleman (NO) lost to FabioPhiladelphia 22 17 .564 7112 vole through one point for a 25th place \/Qie and Philadelphia 24 54
Silberberg,1·6, 4-6 21 6 ·last -k·s ranking&: 3. Will Forsyth (NO) lost to Tim J966up, 3-6,3-6 Pittsburgh 25 21 3 53New York 17 21 .447 12 
Washington 17 21 .447 12 Record Pill Pvs 4. Andy Zurcher (NO) lost to John Gibson, 3-6, New Jersey HI 19 10 48New Jersey 11 26 .297 17 112 
1. UNLV (64) 13-0 1,600 1 4-6 Washington 21 25 2 44Miami 11 28 .282 18 112 
2. Arkansas 17-1 1,518 2 5. Mark Schmidt (NO) beal Connie de VIIHers, NY Islanders 16 25 8 38Central Dlvlalon 
3.1ndlana 16-1 1,448 3 Ad111111 Dlvlelon
6-0, 6-3

Chicago 28 11 .718 
4. Ohio St. 15-0 1,434 4 Boston 26 15 8 60
6. Ron Rosas (NO) lost to Abrie OuPiooy, 2-6,Detroh 28 12 .700 112 5. Arizona 15-2 1,325 6 Montreal 26 18 5 57
6-3, 1-6Milwaukee 27 13 .675 1112 6. Syracuse 16-2 1,156 8 Buffalo 19 17 10 48

DOUBLES
Atlanta 23 15 .605 4112 Indiana 15 24 .385 13 7. North Carolina 13-2 1,115 5 Hartford 20 22 5 45
1. Karsa-J98sup beat DILucla-Coleman (NO),
8. Kentucky 14-2 1,108 9 Quebec 10 30 8 28 9. Duke 15-3 1,090 12 6-4,6-3Charlotte 12 25 .324 15 2. Forsyth-Zurcher (NO) beat GlbsonOdeVIIIIers,Cleveland 12 26 
.316 15112 1o. St. John's 13-2 1,063 10 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE
1-6, 6-3, 7-5 

11.UCLA 14-3 881 7 Norrie Dlvlalon
3. Sllberberg-DuPiooy beat Ryan Wenger-PaulWESTERN CONFERENCE 
12. E. Tenn98889 St. 14-1 799 15 w L T Ptl
Anthony (NO), 6-2, 3-6, 6-1Mldlw..t Dlvlalon 13. Oklahoma 14-3 782 11 Chicago 32 14 4 68w L Pet. GB 14. Nebraska 16-1 n3 17 St. Louis 26 14 7 59San Antonio 28 10 .722 

15. Southern Miss. 10.1 712 18 Tennis vs. Georgia Detroit 22 21 5 49Utah 26 13 .867 1112 16. LSU 12-3 687 20 Mlnn98ota 13 29 8 34
SINGLES
Houston 20 18 .528 7 17. Pittsburgh 14-4 502 16 1. AI Parker beal OILucla, 6-3, 5-7, 6-4 Toronto 12 31 4 28Danas 13 24 .351 13 112 1H 457 14
18. Virginia 2. P atrlclo Arnold beat Coleman ,2-6, 6-2, 6-4 Smythe Dlvlalon
Minnesota 13 24 .351 
13 tl2 13
19. Connecticut 12-4 453 3. Ivan Baron beat Forsyth, 6-4, 6-1 Los Angel98 26 16 5 57Orlando 10 30 .250 18 20. Lhah 17-1 450 23 Calgary 25 17 5 55
4. Bobby Mariencheck beat Zurcher, 6-3, 1-6, 7­Denver 9 30 .231 18 112 1921. Georgetown 11-4 374 Edmonton 22 20 3 47
5

Pacific Dlvlalon Portland 34 7 .829 
22. 
Michigan St. 12-4 252 5. Schmidt beat Jack Frierson, 6-1, 6-4 Vancouver 18 26 4 40 

23. 
New Mexico St. 12-2 211 21 Winnipeg 16 27 8 40


6. Hector Nevaros beat Rosas, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3 Phoenix 25 12 .676 7 LA Lakers 26 11 .703 6 
24. 
New Orleans 15-2 118 Monday'• Game

DOUBLES 

25. 
South Carolina 13-4 106 22 1. DILucla-Coleman beat Parker-Baron, 3-6, 6-Winnipeg 2, Mlnn98ota 0 


Golden State 21 17 

.553 11 112 Other receiving vot98: Kansas 74, Georgia Tech Tueaday'a Game•
3, 6-2Seattle 17 19 .472 14 112 70, Seton Hall 51, Wyoming 45, Princeton 28, Iowa Boston at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. 

2. Forsyth-Zurcher beat Mariencheck-Wade LA Clippers 14 26 .350 19 112 18, Temple 16, Texas 13, Oklahoma St. 9, Washington at Detroh, 7:35 p.m.
McGuire, 6-4, 3-6, 7-5Sacramento. 9 26 .257 22 Alabama 8, Georgia 8, Mississippi St. 7, Texas N.Y. Rangers al N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m.

3. Arnold-Nevaros beat Wenger-Anthony, 7-5,Monday'• Game• Christian 7, Houston 6, Texas-EI Paso 6, N. Illinois Toronto at Quebec, 7:35p.m.
4-6, 7-6 (11-9)Lata Game Not Included 5, South Florida 4, Washington St. 4, Arizona St. 3, Calgary at Phlladephla, 7:35p.m. 

New York 117, Philadelphia 116, OT Providence 3, E. Michigan 2, Washington 1. New Jersey at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 
Washington 121, Orlando 119 St. Louis at Mlnn96ola, 8:35p.m. 

Denver 115, Mlnn98ota 110 Los Angel98 at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m.

Detroh 101, Boston 90 Wedneedey'e Gemea LA Lakers 120, Indiana 114 Calgary at Hartlord, 7:35p.m. 

Chicago 117, Mlaml106 Toronto at Montreal, 7:35p.m. 

Houston at Sacramento, (n) Edmonton at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 

Rutgers 

continued from page 16 
oncern against Rutgers ­
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
such staunch opponents may have put some early pressure on the Irish, the experience from these two matches should pay off later in the season. 
"There's no one we're not ca­pable of beating," said Bayliss. "Tennessee had played three matches and I really think that hurt us against them. I think it (the outcome) might have been knowing how good Duncan can control a game." 
Forwards Donnell Lumpkin, who Phelps calls, "one of the best 6-8 three-point shooters in 
_different against them if we had played them the next day. But I also honestly believe that until you beat somebody, there's only so much you can talk about getting clo.se to them." 
Bayliss was also impressed with the play at number two doubles, as Andy Zurcher and new addition Will Forsyth snagged two three-set matches. Forsyth transferred at mid­semester from Trinity Univer­sity, which has traditionally been a Division I top 20 team. 
the country," and Keith Hughes 
(18.8 ppg, 10.3 rebounds per game). join 6-9 center Brent Dabbs (13.9 ppg, 8.5 rpg) to provide scoring muscle up 
After deciding to drop their scholarships and become a Di­vision III team, all players were allowed to immediately transfer without losing any eligibility. Forsyth, a junior, chose the Irish over Northwestern and Minnesota. 
"It's a great opportunity to be part of the team" said Forsyth. "I was little disappointed with my singles play. Andy and I have similar games -we both get to the net as soon as possible and we have good reflexes when we're at the net, front. 
Notre Dame, meanwhile, hopes to continue its hot shooting from the field, making good on more than 50 percent 
so we came together as a dou­bles team." 
While the duo, and sophomore Mark Schmidt, were the only players to win both matches over the weekend, Bayliss sees some great po!)sibilities for the Irish. 
"Schmidt was spectacular. He's going to be a tremendously solid player for us wherever he plays." said Bayliss. 
Despite losing both matches 6­3, Bayliss feels that the week­end showed just where the team is and where it can go. 
of its shots in eight of the past 10 games. Sweet has had the hot hand of late, connecting on 18-of-23 shots in the two most recent Irish wins. 
"I think we gained some re­spect. We'll play a bunch of teams who are ranked right below us or who are unranked that are capable of beating us," said Bayliss. "We're right on that fine edge. We're not good enough to walk into any of the matches we play and take any­body lightly, and yet we're good enough to beat anybody in the country on a given day." 
For complete weekend results, see SCOREBOARD. 
I 
I I I I I I I I 
I I 
~ 

Students planning on applying to medical school will be facing a completely revised Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) starting in Ap:ill991. The Association of American Medical Colleges has announced that the new MCAT will measure a broader range of skills. 
Fortunately, the test makers aren't the only ones making changes. Stanley H. Kaplan, the first name in MCAT prep, has already designed a brand new course to help students get ready for the brand new test. All our lessons, home study notes, practice tests, and review will reflect the latest MCAT format and content. 
Does Kaplan preparation work7 Over HALF the students in medical school today are Kaplan alumni. New test7 No problem. 
I STANLEY H. KAPLAN 
& Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 
1717 E. SOOTH BE:ND AVE. 
SUUTH BEND, I~ 46637 
219/Z7Z-4U:) 
4/27/91 MCA T Prep Class starts 2/2/9 I. 
:f 
HOOPS UPSIDE YOUR HEAD 
We want to bounce this one off you: 
How would you like Swatch to pay part of your tuition bill for next semester? 
To have a shot at this, just go to the next "Swatch Free Tuition Shootout" game: 
Tuesday, Janaury 22, 1991 Notre Dame v. Rutgers 
(you must fill out an entry form at 

the Gate 10 Entrance to be eligible) 
U you're chosen, you'll be summoned 10 ooun during halftime 10 take !he olton.cst rut of your life. You'll have 30 scronds to IIWte the followin£ lhreelhots: (I) One Lay-up. (2) One Free Throw, (3) One 3-Pointer. If you mike olllhrec before !he cloct 1'11111 ou~ you'll have nelli!ld youneU a partiol blition payment from Sw&!Ch. The only other roquircmcntiO win is !hal you're a full lime undeqroduate IIUdatL So rupport !he Fighlin11rish lhii ~~e~~~aterl And Swatch might end up supponing 
you DeXt sem.ester1 · 
Tuesday,Janua~2~. 1991 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Hapkldo Club meets today at 7:30 p.m. in Room 219, Rockne Gym. Beginners welcome. For more information, call Ron x3504. 
The Tae Kwon Do Club will begin spring practices today at 8:30 
p.m. ir\ the Fencing Gym of the ACC. Beginners and advanced belts weleome. If you have any questions, call Lisa x4868 or Ron x1765. 
The Notre Dame Cycling Team will be holding an organizational meeting today at 7 p.m. in N.S.H. Room 127. If you can't make it or have any questions. call Jonathan Puskas at xn17. Anybody who is inter!OJSted in riding should attend. No expllrience necessary! 
The ND/SMC Ski Club is sponsoring a spring break ski trip to Summit County. CO. There will be an informational meeting for anyone interested on Wednesday, Jan. 23 at 8. p.m. in Rm. 118 Nieuwland Science BLDG. Call Mike at 271-8901 or Bob at 283­3588 if you have quflstions. 
Anyone interested in taking scuba diving lessons should attflnd an informational meeting on Wednesday, Jan. 23 at 6:30 
p.m. in Hockne Hm. 218. 
A downhill ski trip to Swiss Valley will be held on Friday, Jan. 25, beginning at 5:30 p.m. Sign up by Wednesday, Jan. 23. Cost is $1 0 for lift tickets and $8 for ski rental. 
A cross country ski clinic will be held on Wednesday, Jan. 23 at 4 p.m. on the ND golf course. Cost is $4 for the clinic and $2 for ski rental. Sign up by noon Wednesday. For further information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. 
The Observer 
page 13 

Assists 
continued from page 16 
pressive, getting the ball un­derneath to big players such as Margaret Nowlin and Andrea Alexander. 
Though she was unable to to score after halftime, Washing~ ton continued to lead the Irish in the second half, as she helped Notre Dame maintain a 30-point lead after Karen Robinson exited the game with four fouls with 17 minutes re­maining in the game. In the second half, Washington dished out five assists in 13 minutes of play. setting up her teammates repeatedly. 
Washington, a sophomore, makes it her main priority to find the open player in Notre 
Win 
continued from page 16 
up her fourth foul and had to leave the contest with the Irish ahead 4 7-27. and it appeared Dayton finally would make their run. 
The Irish, however, did not fold, as Sara Liebscher played Dame's offensive attack. "I don't really need to score for us to win," she said after Monday's game. "When I come down the court, I am looking to make a nice pass." 
According to backcourt mate Robinson, Washington does an excellent job of making that pass. 
"She creates shots for every­one," Robinson said. "We need our point guard to execute our offenses, and Coquese has been really playing well." 
Head Coach Muffet McGraw showed confidence in Washing­ton when she chose to start her at the crucial poirit guard posi­tion. McGraw, has been very pleased with the sophomore's play. 
"She's doing a great job run­ning the te'am," McGraw said. 
well in her absence, and when Robinson returned with 7:48 to go, the lead was still 20, 57-37. 
Robinson immediately hit two jumpers and found Liebscher streaking to the basket for a third to spark a 15-0 run to put the game out of reach for good. Robinson and Margaret Nowlin led a balanced Notre Dame attack with 15 points apiece, "She is good on transition, and her defense has improved. She is not a scorer, but she helps the team in other ways." Despite her performance Monday, Washington felt that her defensive effort could have been used improvement. 

"I have got to do better keep­ing my man in front of me," said Washington. "In the man defense we play, if my man gets by me, someone else has to pick her up, and our defense becomes unbalanced. 
"We work on pressure defense every day. That is our mainstay, and we base our game on it." 
Again, Robinson supported her fellow guard. "She does a very good job playing defense," Hobinson said. "I have a tough time keeping my man in front of me all the time. too." 
while freshman Kristin Knapp carne ofT the bench to add 12 as every player scored. The Flyers had no players in double figures, with Louise Oess' nine points leading the way for them. 
The Irish now get eight days off before returning to action next Tuesday at home versus Xavier. 
War 
continued from page 16 
on over there than with what was going on on the ice." 
Gretzky's sentiments are un­derstandable and easy to relate to. Each one of us spends our days burdened with thoughts of the troops in Saudi Arabia and concern for loved ones over­seas. But we have to go on do­
ing our jobs and living our lives. 
Students still have to study. Teachers still have to make les­son plans. Reporters, who have perhaps the most dangerous job of all, still have to bring us the news. 
As difficult as it is, we have to continue doing the things we did before war broke out. If we sit around paralyzed by fear and concern with the situation 
I!.'PRESSIONISM TO SURREALISM...; ·• ~ · AND EVERYTHING ·, BETWEEN! .: ·.. 
in the Gulf, we are undermining the very freedom for which our troops are fighting, and Saddam has already partially succeeded. 
Athletes have an obligation to do their jobs just like the stu­dents, teachers and reporters of the world. They have been hired to entertain us, and they should honor the contracts they signed to do that. 
All of the sports bashers out there are going to ask how anyone can think about enter­tainment at a time like this. All I can say is that occasionally our minds need a little bit of a break from the anguish of the situation in the Middle East, and athletics can give us that break. 
Take yesterday's football games for instance. In Buffalo, the Bills' 51-3 rout of the Raiders gave the fans in West­ern New York a chance to take out their frustrations in a pos­itive way when they cheered as their team earned its first-ever trip to the Super Bowl. A little later in the day, fans in New York City had their turn to shout when Matt Bahr's last­second field goal knocked the San Francisco 49ers off their pedestal and sent the Giants packing for Tampa. 

If Tampa Stadium cannot be secured against a terrorist threat, the Super Bowl should be cancelled, of course. But if officials believe they can pro­vide adequate security for the Game, then it should go on. 
Although I cannot speak for them, I would think that the troops in the Gulf would not want it any other way. Life must go on with some sem­blance of order in the U.S., and athletics is a part of that order. 
Michael 
Ferguson-
We all missedyou, some more 

\ 
WELCOME BACK!!! 
• P.W. 

~~~~~~~~*~~********l 
• 
~  The Main Laundromat  ~  
~  1518 North Main Street  ~  
~  Mishawaka  ~  
t ~  H'""?3§,~g-o~~-~d~""'''Clean, Friendly, Convenient  tiC  
~  WASHERS ONLY 85¢  ~  
~  Mon.+ Fri. :FREE Tide in every wash  iC  
~  Every Day.: Drop-off-$.40 per pound  ~  
Thursday :Tanning-$3.00 per session t Convenient pick-up and delivery to your dorm  ....,...t  
~  room.  Dorm discounts available.  ~  

******************* 
Today thru Friday, Jan 25th 9am-Spm 
Notre Dame Room (2~floor), LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
.3 LARGE.RRI.N,l7S;,fOR $15!-: ~ 
. .. . .. ' . . . . . : . . ·_ . _·. .... ' -. . ' . . ...:. . . . .---~~ \
. ' 
. --··· 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday,Janua~22, 1991 
SMC swimmers split two in weekend competition 
By CHRISTINE PENOTE seven of 13 events in their vic­Sports Writer tory over Calvin College,134­103. While winning the one-meter
The Saint Mary's swim team 

and the three-meter contests,
split two meets this weekend, Carrie Cummins broke her own
losing to Lake Forest at home school record in the one-meter
on Friday, but coming back to diving competition. Other
win at Calvin College Saturday, moving the Belles' dual meet 
highlights include double winner Bethany Thompson in
record to 2-2. the 1000 and 500 freestyle. 
The Belles were defeated by The Belles next competition is 
their stronger opponent, Lake Forest,159-84. Of 13 events, 
a double dual meet against De­Pauw University and Illinois
just two were won by the Wesleyan University at De­
Belles. Sophomore Chris 
Pauw.

Smiggen won the 200 free while Kathleen Golski, a junior, 
"The team has proved their stamina and talent and I think 
medalled in the 100 free. they will perform very well"
In contrast, St. Mary's won said Coach Dennis Cooper. 
~bt Ntw!orkSimttJ 
Students, Faculty, & Staff 
s~ ~ u.•/UI4 ~a.e 
66% tJI/ th IIMIId4tt:uut fPUu. 
Monday· Friday $17.25 Monday • Saturday $20.25 Monday • Sunday $56.25 
Send check & name, address, & phone number to Greg Kletzly 132 Keenan Hall Call 283-3246 for more information 
.. 
CAMPUS 
rtsportsportsportsportsportsportsports 
SALE 
20%-SQOA> OFF 
All items in stock 
. . . including shoes, basketballs, volleyballs, soccerballs, tennis, racquetball, and squash rackets, hockey, Lacrosse, and field hockey sticks, swimming suits. 
* Tearn uniforms ordered in January will be. 
20% off Comer of Edison Rd. & S.R. 23 (Next to Tracks Records) 
273-9000 


Wrestlers face Boilermakers · 
By EILEEN McGUIRE Sports Writer 
The 7-4 Saint Mary's basket­ball team won their fourth consecutive game by defeating Goshen College 85­59 Friday evening .. 
The Belles jumped to an early 13-4 lead and continued to build on that powerful start throughout the game. 
"We exerted very good ex­ecution throughout the game and ran the fast break well," said Saint Mary's head coach MarvWood. 
The Belles continued to play strong as they extended their lead to 19 at the half, 44-25. In the second stanza, the Saint Mary's defense checked Goshen's offense, not allowing them to come within 20 points of the Belles' score. 
The Belles were sparked by sophomore Kim Holmes who shot 9-9 from the field and 6­7 from the line for a total of 24 points. Also in double digits for the Belles was ju-

Saint Mary's wins big on four game streak 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team returns to dual meet competition tonight after a week off, as it travels to the Calumet Campus of Purdue University to take on the 12th­ranked Boilermakers. 
In their last outing, the Irish fell 22-14 to the visiting Michi­gan State Spartans. Notre Dame, now 3-3 in dual meet competition, would dearly love to topple their intrastate rivals. The Purdue-Calumet Campus, located in Hammond, Indiana, is where Purdue plans to host both Notre Dame and North­western, in hopes of drawing a sizable crowd from the Chicago area. 
But foremost in the minds of the Irish are not "fireman's holds," takedowns or a Chicago-based audience, but winning attitudes. 
"Right now, we're dealing with the mental aspect of the sport," explained Notre Dame head coach Fran McCann. "Our biggest concern is getting be­tween the kids' ears." 
nior Janet Libbing with 20 points, including two three­pointers; while excellent ball handling by Maria Tettonborn allowed Saint Mary's to commit just 12 turnovers. 
"Our practices over Christ­mas break turned our atti­tudes in the more positive di­rection," said Holmes. "We're playing better as a team and it seems as though it's all coming together." 
Goshen exerted. good bal­ance throughout the game as four of the players were in double figures. 
"Although Goshen was not one of our hardest teams, they were very strong and competitive," continued Holmes. 
"I believe these past two games were the best back-to­hack games of the season," said Wood. "We're in good shape and we're ready to con­tinue to play." 
Tonight, Saint Mary's will travel to Lake Forest. With a win, the Belles could stretch their winning streak to five. 

Coming into tonight's meet, the Irish can ill afford mental lapses. In the lifetime series between the two schools, Pur­due holds a whopping 17-2 ad" vantage. Last year, the Boiler­makers narrowly escaped the revenge-minded Irish, 17-15, at Notre Dame. 
"This is probably the best team that Purdue has had since we've been competing against them," surmised McCann. "This could be the best team that they have ever had." 
Yet spectators should be wary not to underestimate the talent Notre Dame plans to field. 
"We've certainly got the peo­ple to beat them," said McCann. "I just hope that our guys can believe in themselves. It is not going to be easy; Purdue will be up for this meet and we have to wrestle up to our abilities in order to beat them. 
"I'm still waiting for the real Notre Dame team to show up. Last year was the same way ­we came out like gangbusters in the first semester, but we crawled into a shell in the sec­ond semester." 
The mental obstacles which the Irish must overcome are not simply reduced to lack of confidence. A more pressing concern of the Notre Dame coaching staff is the fact that the Irish matmen may be trying just a bit too hard. 
"I think that our kids are just trying too hard," analyzed Mc­Cann. "They are keeping their matches close and hoping to win at the end. The talent is there, however,1 and I have no doubt that they can win. We have always taught them to wrestle hard at the outset if they want to win; 80 percent of the wrestlers who score the first takedown win. 
"Also, we have to remember that we have got to wrestle for seven minutes -we can't just coast and relax for four or five minutes. That coasting cost us the meet against Michigan State. We just cannot afford to do that at this level and expect to win. 
"This is just mind-boggling," continued McCann. "Mental problems are tough to crack. It is obvious that our kids are un­der stress and having a difficult time relaxing and letting their abilities take over." 

--------~~--------~~--~~----------------~ 
@ 
~ Pre-game Specia ~ • ~for all men's and women's~ @Go ND Basketball games No 
1 MEAL FULL PRICE 
COMPARABLE MEAL HALF PRICE ! 
~ ..Si11ce 1981.. 


~~f~;::FREDO ~J0 .., ·,.o.l'~
~K~:" ..
.CACCIATORE 
=:!~~E Dinner 4PM-11PM '~The _Italian ,, IIMGliET OPEN suN & Closed lhn Rrstorante 
ROOM Please present~h~sg. 232•4244 .--..coupon when ordering South Ot Notre o-s· Golden Dome 
-~ 1412 South Bend Avenue 
MERRILL LYNCH & CO. 
CORPORATE FINANCE AN.t\L YST PROGRAM (Chicago Office) 
Merrill Lynch's Investment Banking Division is seeking college graduates for its Corporate Finance Analyst Program, to work with corporations and institutions. The division acts as a financial intermediary between corporations and investors, offering financing alternatives and take part in a six-week training program in 
and then Industrial Banking Group in Chicago. 
remain for a third year their third year. 
outstanding 
demonstrated 
able to work well 
We look auo.111auLy with accounting, s suggests and ability to 
energy to see a a competitive compensation brunovative Potential candidates should send a resume and a cover letter (no student profiles please) to the address below no later than January 31, 1991. 

c/o Mike Iannelli 
Investment Banking 
Merrill Lynch &Co. 
5500 Sears Tower 
Chicago, IL 60606 

,.-----------~----­
Tuesday,Janua~22, 1991 The ObseNer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Balsam, e.g. 55 Comedian 25 Hide the loot Soupy
Tuesday, January 22, 1991 1 Movie 
58 Hanukkah
28 Hanukkah

5 Workers' letters candle number
villain
of relief &3 Impression

6:30 p.m. Presentation MHow to Obtain A Summer 9 Saunter 34 Egypt's -­
64 Leave out
Church

Internship" by Paul Reynolds, Associate Director of 14 Turkish 
65 Story
36 Gen. Pershing's 
Career and Placement Services. All interested students are regiment 
&&.Residence
men

Invited to attend. 124 Hayes-Healy Center. Sponsored by 15 Make over 
67 Plexus
37 Israeli dance
Career and Placement Services. 16 Genoese 
68 Anglo-Saxon
admiral Andrea 38 Robot drama 
slave
39 Hanukkah top
7 p.m. Film, MMetropolis." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite &9 Pram pushers 
17 He wrote "The 42 Joplin music
Museum. 10 Bleaching vat 
Making of an 
43 Judith Blegen 
71 Useful abbr. 
American" 
offering

9 p.m. Film, MGates of Heaven." Annenberg Auditorium, 
18 Arrow poison 
45 Be human 

Snlte Museum. 
19 "-ofrobins 
DOWN songdom 46 Nelson --of 
1 Old MacDonald 48 Hanukkah20 Hanukkah 
had one candy shapesheroes 
MENUS 22 Family in "Look 2 Parts of Homeward, 51 \ron innominate Angel" 52 A son of Jacob bones
Notre Dame 

23Mimic 53 Insect stage 3 Secular 
Veal Parmesan 

4 In the wrongMake Your Own Burrito Bar role Baked Whitefish 5 Group
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
descended 
from 52 Across, 
Saint Mary's 
e.g~ 26 Oldest 41 Nickname for 55 Bridge
6 Kinds; sorts synagogue in Leo Durocher 56 Russian vehicle 
Oven Broiled Chicken 7 French notion 
the U.S., in 44 Appendixes 57 Pride member
Beef & Bean Burrito 8 Syrians, to 20 
Newport, R.I. 

47 Candidate for 58 Knife's
Fresh Vegetable Pasta Across 
27 Spring month boot camp companion
Deli Bar 9 Slow musical 29 Scottish 49 Hindu social 59 Sichuan peak passage seaside resort groups 60 Hops kiln10 Migratory 30 Knight or so Elf &1 Cubitusbutterfly 
Williams 11 Kind of gun 54 Pluperfect 62 Lively dance31 Vast number 
12 Roster 32 Russian range 1-7-f:r-t:'-t-:-+=i 13 Diner sign 33Wise men Answers to any three clues in this f':-'-+=-+:-,....,.,.+=-1 21 PIant pest 35 A king of puzzle are available by touch-tone 1-:+:::-t::+.-+=-l 24 A '76 musician Thebes phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each L..:...l.:..:.J.:::..l:..:..L-'-1 25 Lean animal 40Silkworm minute). 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 




~f.W REAR'S RESOLUTIO~ 

Give your parents and friends the real scoop on college life 
Send them a subscription to The Observer 
And have the latest news and sprirts from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's delivered to your home for $25 a semester. Send to: 
Name 
The Observer 

Address
P.O.Box Q 

City State Zip
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Sports
pagb 16 Tuesday, January 22, 1991 
'Queens' of MCC continue reign with Dayton win 
Irish win 31st in conference, 79-49 to move up to 20th in the nation 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 

The 20th-ranked Notre Dame women's basketball team is queen of the MCC hill, and no league opponent has found a · way to knock the Irish off their perch. 
Notre Dame raced to its 31st consecutive conference victory last night, 79-49, over the Day­ton Flyers in a game in which Head Coach Muffet McGraw was surprised how dominant her team was. 
"They shot very poorly, espe­cially from the free throw line in the first half," McGraw said. "They dug themselves a big hole, and we just didn't let them out of it. 
"We need to put teams away. We've had a problem getting a big lead and then squandering it by losing our intensity, so I think we did abetter job of that ~onight." 
Dayton went against form tonight by slowing the pace rather than playing the press­ing, up-tempo style it has used all year. Instead, it was the Irish who hounded th·e Flyers all over the court with a tena­cious man-to-man defense, coming up with 18 steals, in­cluding a career-high seven for Krissi Davis. 
"That's the one thing that coach really wanted us to pick up, our defense, especially with the four people out," Davis said. "We have to be careful, though. We have to play ag­gressive, but we can't foul like we did (Notre .Dame had 26 fouls}. We got to turn the de­fense up a notch, but we have to play smart." 
Notre Dame used a 10-0 run midway through the first half to take a 36-17 lead into halftime. The Flyers committed 17 first­half turnovers, and shot 3-13 from the foul line-in part due to a rowdy section of youngsters next to the Flyer basket. 
"It's nice to see the kids come in, and when they get the groups of elementary students, it's really nice to have that kind of support," Davis said. 
With 17:07 remaining in the game, Karen Robinson picked 
see WIN I page 13 
Men's tennis loses two tough ones 

By DAVE McMAHON 
Sports Writer 

The 13th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team began one of the toughest schedules in the nation with losses to fourth­ranked Tennessee on Friday and third-ranked Georgia on Saturday. Despite taking the Bulldogs to three sets in seven of the nine matches, the Irish came up just short in the meet held at the Midtown Tennis Club in Chicago. 
"I'm very satisfied with the way we played, particularly against Georgia," said Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss. 
In his first action of the spring season, Notre Dame All­American Dave DiLucia got off to a strong start, beating Ten­nessee's Brice Karsh in straight sets, 6-2, 6-2. On Saturday, however, DiLucia faced Geor­gia's AI Parker, the top-ranked collegiate player in the nation. 
After losing the first set 3-6, DiLucia stormed back, taking the second set, 7-5. Parker, whom DiLucia defeated last year, won the final game 6-4 to take the first of many close matches for the Irish. 
"It was kind of a good news­bad news situation," said Bob Bayliss of his team's weekend performance. "The good news is we know we're right there with two of the top four teams in the country. The bad news is we didn't win." 
After losing to the Tennessee duo of Karsh and Tim Jessup, DiLucia and teammate Chuck Coleman gave the Irish more good news, outlasting the top­ranked Georgia doubles team of Parker and Ivan Baron. 
"Going in we thought we could do well," said Coleman, who sufferel;l two losses at singles. "Against Tennessee, we were playing our first match in a while and the breaks just didn't go our way." 
The Irish pair turned their game up a notch against the Bulldogs. At least one-half did, anyway, according to Coleman. "I didn't play well," said Coleman. "We got otT to a slow start, but Dave played a great match to get us back into it. We expected to win, but we needed a match like that." 
The Irish will be faced with many more matches of that sort, as the squad will face 18 of the top 25 teams in the na­tion. 
"I think this is a necessary part of developing a national level team." Bayliss said. "I don't think you get there with­out really testing yourself. And at the same time, if you don't ever win, you start to doubt yourself." 
While opening the season with 
see TENNIS I page 12 
Washington aids effort with nine assists, defense 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 

As point guard of the 20th­ranked Notre Dame women's basketball team, it is Coquese Washington's job to direct the play of her fellow Irish. Wash­ington showed her mettle as a playmaker Monday night, as she dished out nine assists in leading the Irish to their 31st straight MCC contest. 
Washington dropped in eight points, all in the first half, to go with her team-leading assist total. She was also tough on the defensive end of the court, as she collected four steals. It was the tight defense of Washington and Krissi Davis in the first half which allowed Notre Dame to take a commanding 36-17 halftime lead. 
In directing the Notre Dame fast break, Washington was masterful, repeatedly making beautiful passes on the run. 
In the half-court offense, Washington was no less im­
see ASSISTS I page 13 
Sports offer needed break from Gulf War 

The outbreak of war has made sports seem almost triv­ial in the United States. 
Indeed, when one considers that American soldiers are losing their lives in the Persian Gulf, even the Super Bowl, the pinnacle of athletics in our country, seems virtually meaningless. 
In light of this fact some have called for the games to come to a halt. North Carolina and North Carolina State even went so far as to cancel their scheduled matchup last Wednesday night. And The Great One 'himself, Wayne Gretzky, suggested that the National Hockey League All­Star game should be cancelled. 
"Th,is is a scary situation 

Ken Tyslac 
World of Sports 

when you think about it," Gret­zky told the Associated Press. "Nobody likes to see war. 
"The game was secondary tonight," Gretzky told reporters after his Los Angeles Kings lost 4-3 Wednesday night at Hart­ford. "I don't even think I can describe how everybody felt out there. Obviously we were more concerned with what was going 
see WAR I page 13 
ND hopes to balance attack in matchup with Rutger~ 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 

With the recent loss of for­ward LaPhonso Ellis to aca­demic ineligibility, the Notre Dame basketball team is miss­ing its leading scorer and re­bounder. But in an 80-73 win over Marquette last Thursday, the Irish may have found much more -a balanced scoring at­tack. 
Just two days after Ellis scored a career-high 32 points in Notre Dame's 84-70 defeat of West Vrrginia, point guard Tim Singleton (15 points), forward Daimon Sweet (22 points) and center Keith Tower (12 points) set career scoring marks against the Warriors. 
"Everybody stepped up a 
notch," Irish head coach Digger Phelps said. "Tim Singleton be­came a scorer in that game. We had five guys in double figures, and that's the balance that we're looking ,for." 
That new balance will be tested again Tuesday night when Notre Dame (7-9) puts its season-high three-game win streak on the line against 9-6 Rutgers at 8 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. 
The Irish have been playing some of their finest basketball of the season during the past month, winning five of their past seven games. The Scarlet Knights, however, enter the game with impressive creden­tials of their own, including an eight-point victory over Mi.s­souri in their opening game of the season. 
"Rutgers is one of those teams that can surprise people," Phelps said. "Earlier in the year when they beat Missouri (68­60), that shocked a lot of people. But I think when you look at their personnel and their talent, they've had one of those schedules that can catch them, make them or break them." 
That schedule included two games against Atlantic 10 rival West Virginia, beaten by Notre Dame last week behind Ellis's 32 points and 11 rebounds. The Scarlet Knights fell to the Mountaineers 87-69 in Morgan­town, but returned the favor with a 7 5-71 home victory on Saturday. 
"Without LaPhonso Ellis," Phelps cautioned, "(last Tues­day's Notre Dame victory) would have been a different ball game. For us, under those conditions, to see that Rutgers beats West Virginia by four shows how capable they are of playing against capable (opponents)." 
Notre Dame has struggled this season to prove itself a capable opponent against what USA Today considers the third­toughest schedule in the nation. Six of the nine Irish losses have come against teams that were ranked in last week's Associated Press top 25 poll. 
Much of Notre Dame's trouble has stemmed from its poor turnover ratio. The Irish have committed an average of 16.1 turnovers per game compared to 12.2 for their opponents. 
"If we keep our turnovers down," Phelps said, "which will be a concern against Rutgers because they've been doing a lot of half-court traps lately, it's going to be interesting to see how we go up against that type of pressure." 
Phelps's biggest concern going into tonight's game, however, is stopping point guard Earl Duncan. Duncan is the principal playmaker for the Scarlet Knights, averaging 3. 7 assists and 10.1 points per game. 
"Rutgers has got probably more guard experience than what Marquette has right now," Phelps said. "That's our c 
see RUTGERS I page 12 



