~---~-------------­


~~.~~~t 
·Q·S·
1142·1992 
. f!t--­
SE SQ UICE NTEN N I 4L 
SamtMarys Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 
VOL. XXIV NO. 27 TUESDAY , OCTOBER 1, 1991 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Haitian president arrested by rebel soldiers 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) capital area. Earlier in the day, the rebel diers deserting and hostile units the time of the first attack, the 
-President Jean-Bertrand Sabalat said a loyal captain soldiers had opened fire on moving onto the grounds of the government said. 
Aristide was arrested Monday was killed when the rebels, who Aristide's home, and several National Palace. Independent Radio Cacique 
afternoon by rebel soldiers at claimed Aristide had interfered hours later attacked a military A government minister, said an armored personnel car­
the National Palace, the foreign in internal army affairs, battled convoy that was taking him and speaking on condition of rier was attacked when it went 
minister said. their way into the National the French ambassador to the anonymity, said, "We're in se­to Aristide's home to take him 
"The president and his staff Palace about 5:30p.m. EDT. National Palace. Neither rious trouble." to the National Palace from his 
have been arrested and taken The uprising occurred only Aristide nor the ambassador, Only one of Haiti's 15 or so residence in La Plaine, six miles 
to the army headquarters," said four days after Aristide ad­Jean-Rafael Dufour, was injured radio stations, Roman Catholic­from Port-au-Prince. 
the foreign minister, Jean­dressed the United Nations on in either episode, according to run Radio Soleil, continued to The trouble began Sunday 
Robert Sabalat. He told The his first trip to the United States government sources. broadcast news. Some shut night with mutinies at an army 
Associated Press the govern­since becoming president of this Among those killed during down after being strafed by training camp at Freres, just 
ment was negotiating ..to at coup-prone Caribbean nation. when the unrest first flared gunfire, and others switched to outside Port-au-Prince, and at 
least save the president's life." Aristide said Thursday that Sunday night was Sylvio Claude, music-only formats. an army-run police station in 
The arrest of Aristide, who his address to the U.N. General an evangelical preacher and State television broadcast test the downtown area of the capi­
became Haiti's first freely Assembly the day before had two-time presidential candi­patterns. tal. 
elected president in February, marked the end of Haiti's dark date. The international airport was Shortly before midnight 
capped a harrowing uprising past of dictatorship. By nightfall Monday, a presi­closed Monday afternoon. Sunday, the head of Radio 
that claimed at least 26 lives "Democracy has won out for dential adviser, overheard on a Aristide, a 38-year-old Nationale, Michel Favard, went 
and began with mutinies good, the roots are growing radio frequency used by the Catholic priest in power since on the air to say a government 
Sunday night at a training camp stronger and stronger," he said military, government and em­February, had been at home 
see HAITI/ page 4
and a police station in the in an interview. bassies, spoke of loyalist sol-with aides and a bodyguard at 
Study: American kids making up lost ground 
WASHINGTON (AP) The new reports showed that 
America's school children have white children still outperform 
made up the ground they had black and Hispanic youths at all 
lost in math, reading, writing age levels and in all subjects 
and science achievement.since though the gap in achievement 
the 1970s but are still far short levels decreased. Asian­
of where they need to be, the American pupils and children 
Education Department said from the Pacific Islands ex­
Monday. ceeded by large margins whites 
Education Secretary Lamar and all other minorities in Alexander said, "Children seem mathematics, one report to be learning a lot because showed. compared with what parents The department's report was learned 20 years ago it is a lot. accompanied by still another But the problem is, compared set of figures -a Nation's with what children are learning Report Card that compared for in Seoul and Tokyo and parts of the first time what children ac­Europe and all around this tually know in math with what world, it is not good enough." education leaders think they 
"Our performance falls short should know. of the standards we need to That report by the National meet to compete effectively in Assessment of Educational the global economy," added Progress said just over 60 per­Colorado Gov. Roy Romer, cent of children in grades four, former chairman of the eight and 12 can perform sim­
National Education Goals Panel. ple math problems using basic By BECKY BARNES states, "We feel this is a positive for weekly meetings, and the News Writer step for the University and proposal submitted by David
The Education Department skills. However, less than 20 deserves the full support of the Reinke and Jennifer Switzerand the goals panel released a percent of those in the three 
Administration." would allow the opportunity to
series of reports that painted a grades can tackle solid grade­bleak overall picture of aca­level work. WVFI has received the sup­cancel a meeting if there is in­
port of the Student Senate in In other senate business, a sufficient business. Any fivedemic achievement nationwide, As for advanced math, the their bid to upgrade to FM Student Senate Task Force on sitting members of the senatethough they did show recovery report said 1 percent or less of stereo. Campus Crime was initiated. could call a meeting of thefrom declines between the the fourth-and eighth-graders,­Members of the group are Senate if they felt it was war­
1970s and 1980s. and 2.6 percent of high school In response to station man­Kristie Shafer, Dave Certo, ranted.
"It's good that we're on an seniors can work at this level. 
ager Kevin Flaherty's request Maureen Connelly, Daveupward trend, but I don't think The math achievement-levels for support at last week's Cathcart, Jim Gordon and Brian The budget requests submit­this is the time to relax," said report is the most controversial 
Student Senate meeting, a reso­Murphy. ted by the Student Union Board Diane Ravitch, assistant secre­of all the reports and has be­
lution submitted by David (SUB) concerning upcoming
tary of education for educa­come the subject of an investi­
Reinke, Jennifer Blanchet, Lynn A proposal to allow the events were also approved by
tional research and improve­gation by the U.S. General 
Ramsey and Greg Butres was Senate to call meetings when the Senate. Permission wasment. "The achievement trend Accounting office. 
unanimously passed by the necessary was also discussed. granted for SUB money to belines are essentially flat over 
see STUDY I page 7 Senate Monday. The resolution The present constitution calls see SENATE I page 7 the past 20 years." 

Student government forum to study off-campus crime 
Editor's note: This is the Student life. about the problems concerning other forum may occur, Mollack second of a three-part series The forum, which will take off-campus crime, Mollack said. said. concerning issues student place at 5:30 p.m. today in StudL'nt By attending the meeting, she According to Mollack, off­government is addressing dur-Cushing Auditorium, will fea­said, students will be able to campus Presidents Jim Gordon
C~t n·crnll1L'n t

ture William Kirk, Assistant ask questions and state and Brian Murphy have influ­
ing the 1991-92 school year. 
Vice President of Student Isspes Jl)lJ I complaints to both university enced student government to­By MEGAN JUNIUS Affairs, Rex Rakow, Director of administrators and the city of wards greater off-campus
Second in a three part series 
News Writer Notre Dame Security, and Joe South Bend. awareness and need for safety 
Kernan, mayor of South Bend. "Students have a right to be and crime related concerns. 
According to Mollack, the concerned about their safety. "Off-campus students have 
Student Government is direct­South Bend Police will not be came more prominent in the They need to be good neighbors showed concern about off­ing its efforts towards the in­present because the mayor is South Bend area. This has led as well," Rakow said, "Notre campus crime. Hopefully cur­creasing problem of off-campus essentially responsible for the to an increase of crime, espe­Dame Security wants the stu­rent off-campus students and crime by conducting an open chief of police. cially affecting students living dents to feel safe. However, off­those who plan on moving off­forum with Notre Dame Going directly to officials this on or near Notre Dame Avenue, campus students must realize campus in the future will attend administration, Notre Dame early in the school year will al­where low income housing ex­they aren't in a restrictive the forum," Murphy said. "If Security and the mayor of South low greater prevention of off­ists, Mollack said. environment. As in any students take advantage of the Bend, according to Laura campus crime to take effect, The forum will provide an metropolitan area, they must opportunity, this forum will be Mollack, Student Government's Mollack said. opportunity for students to be­take extra precautions ... the first step to off-campusExecutive Coordinator of Over the summer, gangs be-come informed and educated If the need comes about, an-crime solutions." 


page 2· 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Plungers get a look at other sides of life 
This winter hiatus, as in------­
many past. Saint Mary"s and Notre Dame students will be afforded the opportunity to participate in the Urban Plunge. This is a 48 hour immersion into the life of the inner-city. It should make a very John Rock big impression on our Asst.Photo typically upper-middle __.::E=.di~to:.:.r__ class student bodies. 
The Urban Plunge is about seeing and meeting the very people we try to avoid whenever walking in the downtown of a big city. Students who go on the Plunge will come to see that the homeless and marginalized are not creatures to be avoided, but people who need to be loved and cared for. 
The Urban Plunge allows us to see the homeless in a new light. Plungers come away with a humble respect for the homeless. an admiration of their strength, and sometimes a sense of pity that is all but unwarranted. 
Some things most students come to under­stand is that the homeless are not in the situation they are in because of laziness or a lack of desire to work. 
Most are unable to work because of mental or physical impairments or simply cannot afford a place to live. Although most homeless have somewhere to sleep at night, they have no place to live from day to day-something crucial to holding down a job. 
Most of these people are trapped. Those that can work are unable to get jobs because of a lack of proper clothing and education. Any available jobs are often located out of the city, which makes them impossible to get to. With no job, there is no chance of breaking their cycle of poverty. 
The Plunge will enable students to witness events uncommon in our world. They will see caring people giving their lives to help others. Plungers are bound to see drug deals, prosti­tutes, and other aspects of inner-city life. They may experience the fear walking "the streets" at night. which is a fear much greater than the fear of walking home from the 'brare at night. 
But don't worry, it"s only temporary and after two days all Plungers go home to reflect, safe again. 
The challenge that the Plunge presents is this: "What can we do?" Though we are not necessarily called to spend our lives on the street, we need the basic awareness of what this problem called homelessness is. Only by educating ourselves can we understand their problems and seek to change things. 
The Observer Tuesda~Ckrtober1, 1991 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 

We live in such a closed community; a "Fisher Price Main Street" it's been called. Whatever interaction we may have with the outside, we can always come back to our safe haven. 
We need to open our eyes and see the some of the problems facing our nation. As students and future alumni of one of the premier Christian universities, we must be responsive to the needs of others and seek to change things for the better. 
Today's staff:  Laurie Sessa  
Production:  Viewpoint:  
Melissa Cusack  Julie Shepherd  
Cynthia Ehrhardt  Guy Loranger  
Sports:  News:  
Rolando deAguiar  Paul Pearson  
Scoreboard:  Julie Barrett  
Jennifer Marten  Photos:  
Graphics:  Sean Farnan  
Ann Marie Conrado  Systems:  
Accent:  Cesar Capella  
Jahnelle Harrigan  Pat Barth  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Ia published Monday through Friday except during eQm and vacation perioda. The Oblerwr II a member of lht Aaoci111" PrMa.. AI fiP")ducdon 
right~ ..
,..Ned. 

WORLD 
BodJj of Nazi war criminal cremated 
NATIONAL Jud~e finds Fibre Trim inadequate 
Of IITEREST 
•The Center for the Homeless, located at 813 s. Michigan Street, will offer an orientation for volunteers today from 7 to 9 p.m. Public transportation will depart from the Main Circle at 6:40 p.m. For more information, call John Whelan at 282-8700. 
•A memorial mass for Alexa Crofton of Saint Mary's 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 30 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 146.74 Million 213.34 • 1.13 S&PCOMPOSITE 387.86 • 1.96 OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,016.77 • 10.73 

PRECIOUS METALS GOLD-t $ 4.90to $354.00/oz. SILVER. 5.3¢ to $4.173oz. 
Bo~ dies from pet pit bull attack 
INDIANA Seven NO students arrested 
•WEST LAFAYETTE, In -Approximately seven Notre Dame students were arrested this weekend before and after the Notre Dame-Purdue football game, according to Officer Robin Poindexter of the Indiana State Excise Police. A total of 44 people were arrested this weekend as part of an effort by joint police patrols for Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (S.U.D.S.). Most of the thirty-one college students arrested were charged either with minor in possession of alcohol. a Class C misdemeanor, or public intoxication. a Class B misdemeanor. The students will be required to return to West LaFayette for hearing on Oct. 17, and could face fines of up to $500 and jail-time of up to 60 days. 
class of '94 will be held on Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Regina Chapel. 
•Any Saint Mary's students interested in helping organize an alcohoVpeer education group. come to McCandless piano room on Wednesday at 6 p.m. or call Michelle at 284-5479. 
ON TIIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1903: the Pittsburgh Pirates defeated the home team Boston Pilgrims 7-3, in the first World Series game. Boston went on to win the series, five games to three. 

• 
In 1908: Henry Ford introduced the Model Tto the market, at a cost of $825 per car. More than 15 million were sold before the Model T was discontinued. 

• 
In 1962: Johnny Carson succeeded Jack Paar as permanent host of NBC-TV's "Tonight" show. 

• 
One year ago: In a continuing shakeup of the Soviet leadership, Mikhail Gorbachev was confirmed as president, succeeding Andrei Gromyko. 


-------~----------------------------------------------~------------~---------------------------------------~-------------------­
Tuesda~~ober1, 1991 The Observer 

Observef' tile photo

Take a break 
Students take time out of their hectic schedule to pray. The Grotto is an ideal spot to escape from the hustle and bustle of campus life and just rest and relax. 
page3 





U.N. official says Iraq studied detonators 
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) ­Iraqi nuclear documents flown out of Baghdad on Monday prove for the first time that Iraq was researching triggers for nuclear weapons, a U.N. official said. 
U.N. officials also said the 44­member weapons team that was detained for five days last week in a Baghdad parking lot had spirited the contents of some of the documents out of Iraq before flying to Bahrain on Monday. They would not say how. 
The leader of the team, David Kay, said the documents pro­vided important details on var­ious aspects of Iraq's secret nuclear weapons program, which Saddam Hussein's gov• ernment has denied having. 
"You cannot help but be im­pressed by the sophistication of it,.. Kay said. 
In New York, meanwhile, of­ficials at U.N. headquarters privately expressed embar­rassment that the inspectors may have sent some informa­
. tion from the documents di­rectly to U.S. officials in Washington on one occasion. The Iraqis have accused Kay, an American nuclear expert who works for the United Nations, of being a spy for the CIA. 


GENERAL MILLS 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING 
Tuesday, October 1st 8:00 -10:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Reception to Follow Presentation 
Junior and Senior Finance and Accounting Majors: Come and talk about career opportunities at General Mills. 

U.N. inspectors are seeking out weapons of mass destruc­tion and the means to produce them in Iraq. The Gulf War cease-fire calls for dismantling all of Iraq's long-range missiles and any chemical, nuclear or biological weapons. 
David Kyd, chief spokesman for the U.N. International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, said evidence in the documents disproved Iraq's claims that it had no interest in producing nuclear arms. 
"We found for the first time evidence, during the Monday search, of Iraqi interest in a detonation system for a nuclear device, which they had hitherto steadfastly denied,·· Kyd said. "They had said they were not interested in transforming their nuclear know-how into a weapons capability." 
He said a triggering device is one of three key components for nuclear weapons. Sufficient amounts of enriched uranium and a delivery system are the others, he said. 
"We have no evidence they were working on a delivery sys­tem. We don't even know they started working on a detonator. We only know they had design specs for a detonator," Kyd said. 
If you see news happening caII 239-5303 and let us know. 

The Observer 
40 ~\Vatch your hands!" 
~ 

'~\:Vatch ~'our rnouth!~' 
--~=-:::...:.:._________ 


1&41 MINISTRIES WORKSHOPS 
0J'v'V'\JS 
MNI5TRY 

Eucharistic Ministers Presence & Proclamation: Sunday, September 29, 2:30 pm Lectors Orientation Workshop OR -Tuesday, October 1, 10:00 pm Sacred Heart Church Wednesday, October 2, 10:00 prn Sacred Heart Church Presider: Fr. Joseph Ross, esc Homilisr: Sr. M. J. Griffin, osf Presenters: Dr. James O'Rourke Kate Sullivan It is required that individuals be prepared through the workshop We ENCOURAGE you to come in order to be commissioned to and be ~·prepared to share the serve as eucharistic ministers in gift of word in you. Enthusiasm the Notre Dame community. for the word of God is a sign of the presence of the spirit amongst us. 

The Observer 

page4 Tuesday.~ober1, 1991 
Soviets will start talks on U.S. arms control proposals 
EC turns down political union treaty, agrees on E. Europe 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) ­The European Community on Monday rejected a Dutch draft of a treaty for an EC political union that Britain had claimed would strip individual nations of their sovereignty. 
Also Monday, the 12 commu­nity foreign ministers agreed on a package of trade concessions for Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland, smoothing the way for them to become associate members of EC. 
That agreement resolved a conflict between France and other EC nations over pur­chases of East European farm products. Much of the meat bought from the three countries will be immediately resold to the Soviet Union, whose economy has failed. 
While the 12 nations in the bloc have moved progressively closer on economic issues, Monday's vote on a political union showed they still had far to go in that area. A proposal for union written up by the Netherlands was supportedly only by Belgium. 
The 12 EC heads of state had hoped to adopt a political union treaty at a December summit in the Netherlands, but the vote indicated the signing would be pushed back to next year. 
In addition to seeking to unify EC foreign and defense policies, the Dutch plan would have strengthened the European Parliament to give it veto pow­ers over EC laws. 
Britain was the most ardent opponent of the Dutch text, which it claimed infringed on individual nations' sovereignty, particularly in its call for a "European Union with a federal goal." 
Dutch Foreign Minister Hans van den Broek, the current head of the EC presidency, said he would hold further negotia­tions on a political pact. A less ambitious text was drafted by Luxembourg earlier in the year. 
The Luxembourg text gave somewhat weaker powers to the 513-member European Parliament. It also suggested separate treaties making areas such as foreign policy subject to intergovernmental cooperation, rather than containing all provisions in a single union treaty. 
"We are now in a better posi­tion to succeed than we would have been if the discussion had gone the other way," British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said. "We have a lot of difficulties with that (Luxembourg) text, but ... there is no doubt it is the best text for us to negotiate on." 
While the political union pro­posal failed, EC officials were encouraged by the agreement on trade with former Eastern European nations. They said it should help revive stalled trade talks between the trade bloc and the three countries. 
"We can now reopen the ne­gotiations to have accords in October," said an senior EC of­ficial who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The agreement also ended a month of tension among France and its partners over proposals to increase EC imports of East European farm goods. 
France had blocked an accord for fear increases in meat imports from the three nations would undercut EC farmers. 
French Foreign Minister Roland Dumas accepted a com­promise plan Monday to in­crease East European meat ex­ports by 10 percent a year over the next five years without bringing large new quantities into West European markets. 
Under the plan, the EC will buy the meat and send as much as possible directly to the Soviet Union, which faces drastic food shortages. 
The ministers also agreed to French demands for monitoring of trade arrangements to ensure limits are respected. 
"All our conditions have been fulfilled," Dumas told reporters. 


The Observer/Tim Farish
Dance to a different drummer 
A Native American performs a dance for onlooking students at the Multi-Cultural Fall Festival on cam us. 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet Foreign Ministry announced Monday it was sending a top diplomat to Washington to open negotiations on President Bush's arms control proposals, and said unilateral cuts had not been ruled out. 
But President Mikhail Gorbachev said he was in no hurry to give specific answers to Bush's sweeping suggestions. 
"The Soviet Union should not respond urgently to the U.S. initiative. Haste on such ques­tions by the U.S.S.R. and its president would be an insuffi­ciently thought-out step on such an important, major initiative," he said, according to the state news agency Tass. 

Haiti 
continued from page 1 
source told him a coup was be­lieved underway. Favard is a 1ongtime Aristide aide. 
Minutes later, six soldiers burst into the station, hand­cuffed Favard and took him away, sources at the radio sta­tion said. 
An unidentified soldier, speaking on Radio Soleil, said the rebels had issued seven de­mands, including that the gov­ernment disband 50 civilians reputedly being trained by the Swiss as an elite commando unit. 
Some in the army fear the unit is being trained as an elite militia under Aristide's direct command. 
The rebels also demanded the government confirm the ap­pointment of nine officers as­signed on an interim basis to the Army High Command. 
The U.S. Embassy in a state­ment condemned the "outrageous attack against President Aristide by a muti­nous sector of the army." 
In their most detailed re­sponse to date since Bush's proposals, senior officials told a Moscow news conference that Deputy Foreign Minister Alexei Obukhov, an arms control ex­pert, will go to Washington in the first 10 days of October to open talks. 
Obukhov will "consider in de­tail the entire complex of ques­tions arising from the new pro­posals of the American admin­istration, and also put forward some of our ideas in return," said First Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir Petrovsky. 
The Soviet Union would like to expand the proposals to in­clude strict limits on nuclear testing, and eventually bring 
The casde & Co. 
YOU CHOOSE A FIRST O.ASS CAMPUS, WHY NOT A FIRST ClASS HAIRCUf? 
Haircut and Shampoo 
Reg. student rut $11.00 ~J<i~~·.,~;, ·BrloaIn a friend and ft!Cdve your cuts for $9.00 each. ,._; MINUrES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
Closed 


• ...... ~-· ~ ·; 272-0312 277-1691 

.. #'"''""''~·. 
·i#{'' 

Mikhail Gorbachev 
other nuclear countries into the talks, Petrovsky said. 
"We have accepted these pro­posals and we stand for the immediate start of dialogue on all these subjects," he said. 

On Saturday, Gorbachev wel­comed the proposals in general, saying: "Our assessment of these proposals is positive, is very positive." 
Bush, speaking Monday in Florida, expressed satisfaction with the Soviet response. 
"I'm very pleased with the re­action from all around the world. I was very pleased with the Soviet reaction and I fully expect that they will cooperate fully," he said. 
Bush announced Friday that the United States would elimi­nate all its ground-launched, short-range nuclear weapons; withdraw all tactical nuclear arms from U.S. ships; take strategic bombers ofT alert; and 



EAR CANDY 
WVFiam 640 
f'~Wurtf 

A 73-minute CD featuring 19 original songs from 19 campus bands 
Tony Gra1feo•Brian Muller•Dominic Campanella & Chris Horborg•Fresh Water for 11le Horses•lbe Turquoise Sidewalk•Exit 77•Utlle Geneva•Ralph Falbo Trio• Don McGhan•XYZ Atrair•Doghaus• Chisel• Bone Forest•Chronic Desire•5 o'clock Shadows•Jester•Greg Jeftrey•SYR•Sigi Loya 
All proceeds to benefit the South Bend Runaway Shelter for Adolescents through the United Way 
N SALE NOW at the Lafortune Information Des 
cancel the development of the mobile MX missile. 
Although those U.S. steps are unilateral, Bush called on the Soviets "to go down this road with us" and "to match our actions" with unilateral cuts of their own . 
He also called for the start of bilateral negotiations to elimi­nate all intercontinental mis­siles with multiple warheads. 
"We do not exclude unilateral steps" by the Soviet side, Petrovsky said, speaking in English. "But you know certain unilateral steps need also some kind of qualifications and con­sultations." 
He did not elaborate on the qualifications. 

---~--~----­
The Observer 

Tuesday, October 1, 1991 pageS 

Indianapolis high school student killed~ over girl 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The 17 -year-old son of a high school dean was fatally stabbed Monday during an argument over a girl in the school cafete­ria. 
The attack occurred just two weeks after public school au­thorities began random weapons searches of students, a policy the Indiana Civil liberties Union has criticized. 
"This is an unfortunate and senseless loss of young life. It was exactly what we're trying to pr,event," said Shirl Gilbert, superintendent of Indianapolis Public Schools. 
Bertram Bowman, son of Arlington High School dean of boys Robert Bowman, was stabbed as students ate, police spokesman Andrew Stoner said. 
"There was an argument over a girl that broke out at the back of the school cafeteria," Stoner said. 
Bowman and a 15-year-old friend exchanged words and wrestled on the floor before they were separated by a teacher. The younger student then pulled out a knife and stabbed Bowman in the neck, Stoner said. 
The 15-year-old was arrested on a juvenile charge of murder, but authorities expect him to be charged as an adult, Stoner said. He was taken to a hospital for shortness of breath. 
Four other students were treated at the scene following the stabbing. 
A student who was seven months pregnant was thought to have gone into labor, but of­ficials later said it was a false alarm. Three other students had asthma attacks, Stoner said. 
Assistant Principal Wayne Wellington said crisis teams were at the scene to counsel students. 
Hthe press didn't tellus,whowould? 
To get printed information on the role ofa free press and how it protects your rights, or to discuss any free press issue, call the First Amendment Center at 1-800-542-1600. 

THE ESSENTIALS OF NURSING 
When )OU expect the unexpected, when you meet a last-minute situation with a first-rate response, then you're ready to take advantage of Resurrection Medical Center's promise , 
You bring the essentials for good nursing. We'll gfve }VU the essentials for a good nursing career. 
Because your time is valuable, weve developed schedules to fit your schedule. And w:'ve added more ancillary help, so youcan put the care back in your career. And with benefits like on-site day care and fimess center, free parking, generous paid vacations and holidays, complete insurance and tuition reimbursement, time spent at Resurrection is time well spent. 
Be sure to see us at St. Mary's College 1991 Nursing Job Fair on Wednesday October 2nd. Or contact Cathy Osicek, RN, MS, Manager, Nooe Recruionentat (312) 792-5180, Resurrection Medical Center, 7435 West Talcott Avenue, Olicago.lllinois 60631. When )OU find out what we're offering, )OU might just ~nder what took you so long. Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/Handicapped. 
~ifi(fli Resurrection 
Medical (:enter 


The Obaefverffim Farish 
Food for thought 
Monica Tsethlikaei gets something to eat during an International Students Organization meeting. 
CRANSTON, R.I. (AP) ­Several hundred inmates started a disturbance and set fires in the state prison's max­imum-security unit Monday, officials said. Officers in riot gear entered the building. 
There were no immediate re­ports of hostages or serious injuries. It wasn't clear who was in control of the building. 
Prison officials wouldn't comment on the motive for the unrest, but an inmate's wife said prisoners were angered by recent changes at the prison. 
Cranston deputy fire chief Carl Iaciofano said some of the prisoners were armed with boards embedded with nails. 
"I think you can classify it as a riot," Iaciofano said. 
Roughly 300 of the 440 in­mates in the maximum-security unit at the Adult Correctional Institutions, the state's only prison complex, started the disturbance in the exercise yard in mid-afternoon, said A.T. Wahl, assistant corrections di­rector for policy. 
Wahl said there were no re­ports of injuries to prison staff and one inmate suffered a mi­nor injury. 
State police and prison guards in riot gear entered the building about an hour and a half after fires broke out. More troopers and guards wearing gas masks and carrying shotguns and billyclubs congregated outside. 
A cloud of white smoke was seen drifting over the wall in the back of the prison and wit­nesses reported a pungent smell in the area. It couldn't be confirmed whether tear gas had been fired. 
Firefighters said five to six small fires apparently were set in the unit's industrial shop. 
"The bottom line of the fire de­partment is (prison officials) must secure the scene before we go in," Iaciofano said. 
Prison officials wouldn't give details on the disturbance nor comment on the motive. However, an inmate's wife standing outside the prison gates said tension had been building for the past week. 
Michelle Snow said her hus­band, Alex, had told her pris­oners were angry because ad­ministrators had taken away privileges and a particular deputy guard who the inmates respected was relieved last week. 
"I think it's sad that it had to come to this," she said. "I'm very worried. My biggest fear is that they're going to start shooting." 
Exxon Valdez oil spill case settled 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska {AP) ­The state and federal govern­ments announced Monday a new $1 billion deal with Exxon Corp. to settle government liti­gation over the nation's worst oil spill. 
Under the agreement, which drew criticism from environ­mentalists and must be ap­proved by a federal judge in Anchorage, Exxon and its ship­ping subsidiary agreed to plead guilty to four misdemeanors. Two federal felony pollution charges will be dropped. 
The settlement, like the previ­ous one, would be the largest of an environmental damage case in U.S. history. 
It's slightly different from the agreement that was rejected by a federal judge and Alaska leg­islators last spring. Exxon will pay only $25 million more than what it would have paid under that first deal. 
Exxon agreed to a $150 mil­lion criminal fine, with $125 million of it forgiven ·m recog­nition of the company's volun­tary expenditures" on spill cleanup, the Justice Department said. And it agreed to pay $100 million in restitu­tion -$50 million to the state and $50 million to the federal government. 
As in the previous settlement, Exxon will pay an additional $900 million during the next 11 years to settle the state and federal governments' civil dam­age claims. 
The deal includes a clause that would allow the govern­ments to seek an additional $100 million if new spill dam­age is found. That could bring the total payments to more than $1.1 billion. 
The agreement would not af­fect private lawsuits seeking a total of $59 billion from the oil giant. 
"I think this is a good settle­ment," Gov. Walter Hickel said as he signed it. Rather than spend years in court over dam­age claims, he said, "Let's get it behind us." 
Alaska Attorney General Charles Cole called the deal "substantially better" than the earlier one becauee the $100 million in resUtution will go di­rectly to restore Prince William Sound. 
The tanker Exxon Valdez spilled nearly 11 million gallons of crude oil in Prince William Sound after it ripped its hull open on a charted reef in March 1989. The oil killed thousands of birds and mammals and was devastating to the region's native villages, where most residents live ofT the land and sea. 
Joseph Hazelwood, the ship's captain, was accused of drink­ing on shore before the tanker left Valdez. He was acquitted of state charges of operating the ship while intoxicated. 
Hickel indicated he did not plan to refer the agreement to the Legislature -a move cer­tain to raise objections. 
Some legislators and envi­ronmentalists were quick to criticize the package. 
"A lot of the key concerns of the House were not addressed, • said state Rep. Dave Donley, a member of the House panel that reviewed the previous spill settlement. ·The criminal ftne is still woefully inadequate.• 
,-­
~ 
page6
I 
1 Thousands 
I I 
1 march in South Africa 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Thousands of chanting blacks marched in cities around the country on Monday to denounce a new tax they say will hurt the poor. 
In the largest protest, 10,000 people marched to the Cape Town city center near Parliament, and some pelted police with bottles. No serious injuries were reported, and police said about 7 5 demonstrators were briefly detained. 
The protests followed the introduction Monday of a new 10-percent tax on virtually all goods and services except basic foodstuffs. 
The government imposed the value added tax, or VAT, despite warnings from the African National Congress, trade unions and other opposition groups that it would spark a major confrontation. 
The marchers in Cape Town carried signs reading: ..Bread Not VAT" and "Down With This Killer VAT." 
The government is trying to open constitutional negotiations with the ANC and other opposition groups. However, a standoff over the new tax could further delay th~se efforts by President F.W. de Klerk. 
The new tax replaces a 13 percent general sales tax which had exempted many items, including some foods, medicine, utilities and services. Because VAT covers a wider range of goods and services, the government says it will collect the same amount of revenue despite the lower rate. 
But opponents of VAT say millions of poor blacks will suffer because they will have to pay taxes on almost all foods as well as medicine and utilities. 
The increased costs come as millions are struggling to make ends meet in a country reeling under a 2-year-old recession, 15 percent inflation and high unemployment. 
About 5,000 people carrying placards and shouting slogans marched in downtown Johannesburg as scores of heavily armed police backed by armored vehicles stood watch. 

The Observer 

Shine on us Observerfilephoto Students having class in front of Hesburgh Library can't help but feel the awesome presence of Jesus, who is depicted larger thar life in the mural that covers the front of the library entrance. 
Bappyz~st 
ill~cQID~ to our )]]@[?(!), James Stevens 
We love you! 
Mom, Dad, Christopher, Sarah & Alicia 



BE PREPARED TO BE IMPRESSED! 
WED: PENNY CUP NIGHT~ 
THURS: $1.00 TEAS 
FRIJSAT: $.75 SPECIALS NO COVER! 
WED:WVFI DJ, TIM MCADAM 
St8ll8um 
0 
OJACC 
0 

...AND WE.LL ·~ CLEAN THE FLOORI
EXITllllsMwlb Ave. 
.,• 
1150-111-....._.---Ave--,::=::~ ~ 
1150 Mjshawake Ave. South Bend. IN 288-0285 


-------~--------------------------·------------------r------------------------~------------~----~--------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 1, 1991 The Observer page7 
Bob Kerrey announces his presidential candidacy 
LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) ­Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey, of­fering himself as a bold new leader for a country gone astray, entered the Democratic presidential race Monday with a call to change course after a decade of greed and cynicism. 
"My generation is uniquely positioned to understand what must be done," the 48-year-old senator told thousands of cheering supporters who gath­ered in the shadow of the state Capitol where he served one term as governor. 
"It is time for leadership in America committed to posterity rather than popularity and fo­cused on the next generation instead of the next election." 
The charismatic Vietnam War hero portrayed himself as the best man to shake the Democratic Party from its lethargy and make it once again "the party that reached out to those bent low and raised our sights to the moon." 
Kerrey said the hopes of his generation had been dashed in the 1980s by shortsighted lead­ers. 
"I believe Americans know deep in their bones that some­thing is terribly wrong and that business as usual -the pre­scription of the '80s -cannot work for our future," Kerrey said. 
In a speech punctuated by applause and wild cheers from a crowd of nearly 3,000, Kerrey offered few specifics on what he would do if elected. But he said "1992 offers us a chance to break from a decade in which our leaders invited a season of cynicism." 
His priorities include lowering the national debt to reduce the burden on future generations, improving education, reforming the health care system, fighting barriers to U.S. trade with other nations and promoting human rights around the world. 
Kerrey's 25-minute address targeted pessimism as much as President Bush. 
"This campaign is grounded in the belief that we can and should trust again," said Kerrey, who was a registered Republican until 1978. "As such, it's not so much a fight against George Bush as a fight for what America can be." 
Still, he offered a biting in­dictment of the Reagan and Bush years: 
"They invoked morality but winked at greed. They criticized the public sector but then robbed it blind. They spoke of balanced budgets but never submitted one. 
"They railed against taxes but then they raised taxes on the middle class. They called for civil rights but practiced racial politics. They wrapped their cause in motherhood but then worked to deny motherhood of choice and meaningful opportunities." 
Kerrey's two teen-age chil­dren and his ex-wife joined him on the flag-draped stage for his announcement. In keeping with his theme of a new generation in leadership, the rally featured rock music by Bruce Springsteen and John Cougar Mellencamp. 
The first-term senator is the fourth candidate to enter the Democratic field. He joins former Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas, Virginia Gov. L. Douglas Wilder and Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin. Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton is expected to join Thursday. 
Former California Gov. Jerry Brown has said he's running but has not formally an­nounced. Two-time presidential candidate Jesse Jackson and Oklahoma Rep. Dave McCurdy also are considering the race. 
Kerrey kicks off his campaign with a 12-day swing that in­cludes stops in Colorado, Iowa, South Dakota and Illinois in the next four days and then a week in New Hampshire, site of the first Democratic presiden~ial primary next February. 

In his speech, Kerrey recalled his return to Nebra.ska from Vietnam, where as a Navy SEAL he lost half his right leg direct­ing an operation against a Vietnamese camp. 
"You helped a weakened and bitter and lonely and altogether unpleasant young man," he said. "Once more I come to you and ask: Will you help me now become the next president of the United States of America?" 
A Democrat with a generally liberal record, Kerrey twice won statewide elections in con­servative Nebraska, which voted overwhelmingly for Reagan and Bush. 
Study 
continued from page 1 Gordon Ambach, executive director of the Council of Chief State School Officers, com­plained the levels lacked ade­quate documentation. Assessment Governing Board member Michael Glode and Executive Director Roy Truby noted the report was a trial assessment, and Truby said "When you set standards, any standards, it's judgment." Alexander said, "There's un­doubtedly some controversy about what is good enough but the gap is big enough" to show there is a problem. Thirty-seven states, the District of Columbia, Guam and the Virgin Islands allowed the National Assessment to analyze their pupils' math achievement levels as part of the 1990 exam. Thirty-five of the· states agreed to make the results public. North Dakota led the states with the highest percentage of eighth-graders performing at the basic and proficient levels. About 85 percent of the· eighth graders were able to tell whether to measure the length of a pencil using centimeters, meters or kilometers-consid­ered a basic calculation. About 31 percent were able to find the average age when given the ages of five children -consid­ered the proficient level. With 2.3 percent, Virginia had the highest percentage of eighth-graders performing ad­vanced math. An advanced eighth-grader should be able to calculate the probability that a person can draw a chip with an even number when nine chips are mixed in a sack. The National Assessment is conducted by the private Educational Testing Service under a $58.5 million contract with the Education Department's National Center for Education Statistics. About 13 7,000 students participated in the 1990 mathematics assessment. The reports challenge the premise of the National Education Goals to return America to world-class levels by the year 2000. 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
spent to bring Joe Clark, the New Jersey high school princi­pal portrayed in the movie ..Lean on Me," and the music group The Bodeans to Notre Dame this semester. 

·-----------------------~----------------~--------------~------------~------------~~ 
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, October 1, 1991 
Witness: Noriega never gave details of drug flights 
MIAMI (AP) -Drug traffick­ers never told Manuel Noriega when and where their cocaine flights were arriving in Panama even though they paid him to protect the shipments, the gov­ernment's star witness said Monday. 
Floyd Carlton, 42, a drug-pi­lot-turned informant who has testified to paying bribes to the ousted Panamanian leader, has provided the most damaging testimony in Noriega's drug and 
Tres bien crepes 
racketeering trial. 
Under cross-examination, de­fense attorney Frank Rubino asked why Carlton and the Medellin cartel allegedly paid millions of dollars to Noriega to protect their flights, then never told him what flights to protect. 
"I have no explanation for that, sir," Carlton replied. 
Carlton said Noriega never supplied troops or customs help for the flights. And on the first flight -supposedly a test of 

Katie smnh, Chandra Dasgupth and Clarisa Aruayo from the SMC French Club cook up some crepes for the Multi-Cultural Fall Festival that is taking place at NO this week. 

• 

-=~~~=--
MORfftU Cf~nTAER cfOR lttf 41 R T s 
An International Favortte Comic/Mime 
Bob 

Berky 
FRIDAY, OCT. 4, 8 P.M. 
A. moreau galleries, sylvia taccani, photographs; michael shaughnessy, sculptural installation, sept. 6-oct. 4, admission free 
A. saint mary's theatre, hansel &gretel: an old tale newly told, nov. 14-17 
A. jonathan !rid's shakespearean odyssey, nov. 23 
A. the south bend chamber singers gala christmas concert, dec. 20 
Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, 
located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m.-4 p.m. 
Visa/MasterCard orders at 284-4626. 
i' ----~--­I ! Saint Mary's Coli~~ 
NOTRE DAME· r·NDIANA 
Noriega's trustworthiness ­cartel leader Pablo Escobar ac­tually gave orders not to tell Noriega, Carlton said. 
But he insisted Noriega "morally authorized" the flights. 
Carlton contradicted Noriega's former aide Luis del Cid about details of the first $100,000 payment Carlton al­legedly sent to Noriega. While del Cid had testified he could feel the cash through an enve­lope, Carlton said the money 
The Observermm Farish 

was in a hard cardboard box The defense also attacked when he handed it to the aide Carlton's credibility through his for delivery to Noriega. plea bargain to nine drug and 
Carlton also acknowledged racketeering counts. that his protection at Panama's Paitilla airport may not have Carlton could have faced life come from Noriega in the early without parole plus145 years in 1980s, but rather from prison. But under questioning Noriega's boss, Panama's leader by Rubino, he acknowledged at the time, Gen. Omar Torrijos. that he spent only four years in Carlton said he flew secret prison, in exchange for his weapons flights to the agreement to testify against Sandinistas in Nicaragua for Noriega, Colombian drug lord Torrijos. Carlos Lehder and others. 
Study: 1 i.n 5 adults grew up with a problem drinker 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Nearly one in five adult Americans lived with a problem drinker growing up, and twice as many have been exposed to alco­holism in their families, accord­ing to a government survey re­leased Monday. 
The data also showed that separated and divorced people were three times as likely as those with intact marriages to say their spouse was an alco­holic or problem drinker. 
The survey found that 76 mil­lion Americans -about 43 percent of the U.S. adult popu­lation -had some contact with alcoholism in their family. 
About 10.5 million Americans are alcoholics, but "it is clear from this study that the statis­tics on the number of alcoholics . . . greatly underestimate the number of people affected by the disease of alcoholism," Health and Human Services Secretary [ouis Sullivan said. 
The survey was conducted by the National Center for Health 
AND 

Statistics and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. 
Researchers did not distin.. guish between an alcoholic and a problem drinker in their sur­vey of nearly 44,000 adults in 1988. Since respondents inter­preted these labels, patterns of alcohol consumption may vary among those identified as alco­holics, researchers said. The survey had a margin of error of about 2 percentage points. 
Among the findings: 

• 
Eighteen percent of Americans grew up living with an alcoholic or problem drinker. 

• 
Nearly 10 percent of adults have been married to or had a marriage-like relationship with an alcoholic or problem drinker . 

• 
Among those under 45 who were separated or divorced, two-thirds of the women and nearly half of the men have been exposed to alcoholism in the family at some time. 



Last year, GE hired more Notre Jhere's a lot of talent at GE, too. Dame grads than ever before. Couple this talent with technology Why? Just look in the mirror. leadership, strong financial There's a lot of talent under perfonnance and a management the Dome. team second to none and you've 
got the recipe for a truly world­
class company. 
Stop by the Placement Office and get all the details. 
Invitational Sign-up: 
September 30--0ctober 1 
Open Sign-up: October 14--15 
World of opportunity. 
An equal opportunity employer Campus lntetviews: November 7--8 

Tuesday.~ober1, 1991 The Observer page9 


Have a ball! Observer file photo 
Students around campus are taking advantage of the wave of warm weather that has hit South Bend by getting outside and playing all kinds of sports. 
Yugoslavian troops march into Croatia 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) 
The Serb-dominated 
Yugoslav army sent scores of 
tanks and armored vehicles to­
ward secessionist Croatia on 
Monday and launched a major 
offensive to capture the be­
sieged Croat stronghold of 
Vukovar. 
Some of the federal armored reinforcements were reported taking up positions near Serbia's border with Croatia, while other units crossed into the secessionist republic and headed for Vukovar. 
The city occupies a strategic point on the Danube River bor­der with Serbia. Its capture would allow ethnic Serb insur­gents, aided by the army, to control a large enclave in Slavonia, a region of eastern Croatia that has been the scene of much of the fighting since Croatia declared independence in June. 
Also Monday, European Community nations meeting in Brussels postponed a decision on sending a multinational mili­tary force to quell the fighting in Croatia, which has killed more than 600 people in three months. 
Fighting was reported at sev­eral other points in Croatia, further straining the shaky week-old cease-fire between the federal army and the break­away republic. 
"The situation in Vukovar is critical," a Croatian Defense Ministry official said in Croatia's capital, Zagreb. 
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the city was under fierce attack and that about 200 federal army vehicles were bringing in reinforcements. The city's de­fenders, who have been virtu­ally surrounded for days, have inflicted heavy losses on federal troops. 
AP photographer Srdjan Ilic, reporting from Odzaci, 15 miles southwest of Vukovar, said he saw Yugoslav air force planes flying toward Vukovar and heard explosions. Sources in the area told Ilic the planes bombed Croatian positions near the city. 
Yugoslav federal Premier Ante Markovic appealed to the , hard-line president of Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic, to stop a general mobilization of his re­public's men ofmilitary age and avert all-out civil war. Markovic, a Croat who despite his position has little authority left, said such a move would promote civil war and "the ag­gression of one state on an­other." 
Croats have accused Serbian leaders of instigating the fight­ing in Croatia in an attempt to expand Serbia's territory. Ethnic Serbs, who make up 12 percent of Croatia's 4.5 million people, say they rebelled to keep their areas from being part of an independent Croatia, which they accuse of persecu­tion.· 
•• t • , t t , * * ........... , •••• t •• * ••••••• * •. t 
TASTE OF NATIONS 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 4, 1991 

7:30 P.M. -1:30 A.M. STEPAN CENTER 
Free food and desserts from many coun­tries just waiting to be tasted by you and your friends. The DJ will be playing hits from all over the world. There will also be various dance contests and prizes to go to the best Fred and Ginger. 
The decorations and atmosphere are awe­

some-you won't even recognize Stepan 
Center. 
WE BRING YOU THE WORLD FOR FREE! 
MONDAY-FRIDAY 12:30 • 1:30 P.M. FIELDHOUSE MALL (Rain location: LaFortune T.V. Lounge) 
Monday St. Mary's French Club French Crepes Tuesday Notre Dame German Club German Food Wednesday Notre Dame Italian Club Italian Food Thursday Notre Dame Japan Club Japanese Writing Friday Notre Dame Spanish Club Spanish Desserts 
* •• t • t t .................... ¢ •• * ••.•• t •• n 
Singing Performances Coffee (Around the World) Refreshments provided 
Come on over! Sit and listen to a variety of music from the sounds of a grand piano to the pleasant melodies of the Spanish lan­guage. 
Tuesday, October 1, 1991 8:00-11:00 P.M. Theodores 
"Let Us Pray ..." 
A Multicultural Experience 
As a closing to the Multicultural Fall Festival, we invite you to join us in a celebration of thanksgiving. 
Lyons -Morrissey Quad 
2:00 P.M. Sunday, October 6, 1991 
BLACK HISTORY 

BLACK HISTORY THROUGH MEMORABILIA 
Thursday, October 3, 1991 THEODORE'S Exhibit: 4:00 -7:00 P.M. Discussion: 7:00 P.M. VANESSA DURGANS 
0 0

••••• n ••••••• t •••• t •• t ••• * • t t ••••• "* .... tt 
ENTERTAINMENT ON THE QUAD 
September 30-October 4 4:30 -6:30 P.M. Fieldhouse Mall 
(LaFortune if raining) 
Dancing and Singing all week long. These are exciting, live performances which shouldn't be 
September 30 -October 4 12:00 • 1 :00 P.M. 
I.S.O. Lounge 2nd Floor LaFortune 
Laidback, lunchtime talks with various speakers who 
relate their cultural experiences with you. These are 
not lectures but rather relaxed open dialogues. 
FREE LUNCH INCLUDED I Monday, September 30 Professor Igor Grazin "The Soviet Union" Tuesday, October 1 Professor Michael Brownstein "Understanding Japan" Wednesday, October 2 Professor John Kennedy "The American Illusion of Ireland" Thursday, October 3 Professor Sharon O'Brien "The Rights of Indigenous Peoples• Friday, October 4 Professor Everett Percival Open Discussion 
0

0 0 0 0
$ t t t $ $ t t t t $ $ $ $ e 0 0 Q $ a ' Q a a t e e $ $ e e .......,..,_... ............... e t $ ... e $ $ $ $ e e • ft $ e e $ $ e $ Q t $ ••• Q e t t t n t ... e n e ..... e n e • t t t ... $ • ft ..... t ....., • t t ............. $ • e e n. 



' 
'·, 
i 
'• 
I 
\ 
I 
~ 
I 
~ '­~ 
' 
' 
i 
,' 
r ­' 
I 
I 
' 
~ 
I 
I 
\ 
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, _Octo~er _1~199~­
STUDENT GO 

.. 



with... 

•JOE 

Mayor of South Bend 
. •BILL KI 

Assistant VP for Residence Life 
• 
ow 

Director of Security at Notre Dame 
•


~TUDENT 
I 0 I I I I I I I I 


_____ ,... ... ________________ .,. .. ~---·-!•••••••••• .. ••••••••••• ••••••••••••••••••••••' E•• _. 
-• •••r •• ' '---••••*'*••••••••• 
Viewpoint 
Tuesday, October 1, 1991 Page 11 
,_-_Ihe=Obser:ver_~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-ln.Chlef Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor .••...•.•..•.•...•..... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ......Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor ••..••••...••...••Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor •.•..••...•.... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor •...••...•••.•.•••..John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ....•...... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Notre Dame students display school pride, not arrogance 
The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, PO Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE Of THE DAY 


Was Gulf War truly a victory? 
Dear Editor: in Iraq? Was it truly a So ask yourself, "did we win?" Over a year has passed since "victory"? How can one call the For those of you who feel that the U.S. massively deployed slaughter of over 100,000 the question has been settled, troops in the Persian Gulf. Over human beings a victory? Can New York writer Sam six months have passed since somebody tell us where the McPheeters has this piece of the last bomb was dropped on democracy is in "free" advice: "Roll up your war and Baghdad. The troops are home, Kuwait? How can anyone smoke it. Feel the high of being the parades are over, and the have an informed opinion if the number one. Suck down the yellow ribbons have bee11 put facts themselves are hidden and smooth, menthol flavor of away. We won. unreported? 100,000 sacks of human Or did we? The World Peace Action Group garbage. Taste the cool, re­
Now that the tickertape has has been actively seeking these freshing flavor of severed arms settled, we can clear our heads answers for almost a year. If and disemboweled children. and begin to evaluate what the you have questions, or can Then get some rest, you deserve Gulf War really was. It was the provide the answers to the it! God bless America. God death of the Vietnam syndrome. above inquiries, we invite you bless us ... each and every one." It was a rebirth of American to the esc coffeehouse every "patriotism." It was the estab­Wednesday evening at 7 p.m. Jeff Jotz lishment of a "New World Our purpose as an organization Off-Campus Order." It was, quite simply, a is to educate the community on Christine Kempf victory. current war and peace issues, Knott Hall 
Or was it? with a special interest in the Sept. 24, 1991 
What was gained from the war Persian Gulf. 

Dear Editor: South Bend and the role of the Bend residents to attend this 
Today at 5:30 p.m. in Cush­city police department in pro­forum and offer their views. ing Auditorium, Notre Dame tecting Notre Dame and Saint Together we hope to work Student Government is sponsor­Mary's students. Mr. Kirk and toward a solution. ing an open forum on off-cam­Mr. Rakow will offer insights as pus crime. South Bend Mayor to how administrators and Laura Mollach Joe Kernan will be present as students can contribute to the Executive Coordinator for well as Bill Kick, Assistant Vice­resolution of this pressing Student Life President for Residence Life problem. Karen Stohr and Rex Rakow, Director of Student Government encour­Student Government Chief of Security at Notre Dame. ages all Notre Dame/Saint Staff 
Mayor Kernan will address Mary's students, faculty and Sept.29,1991 the current crime situation in staff as well as interested South 
DOONF.SBURY 
I STIU. CAN'T 
HAV/3 Ya.J
(fffT lJ5I3I) 70 
HlfARf? 
NOPe. I

1-WGXJieT!T 
FROM
Jt;ARa/Nf) ICAN. 
A$UMe7HAT

ANYONP~
NBVIJR. ~HAPPf
I

A641N, A5 A aAM UV/It7BABe. ATffCWiffi ... 
I
I 

Dear Editor: 
As a Notre Dame student, I became outraged upon reading Mr. Steve Hurst's comments (The Observer, Sept 25) about my school (as did most others here.) 
Then, after thinking about it, my anger subsided because it became clear to me that his opinion was based on stereo­types and generalizations with no truthful foundation. 
While he may hate Notre Dame because it is "very, very overrated," I'd like to point out that those that rank schools are independent analysts and authors. We have nothing to do with it, and so please take your complaints elsewhere. 
He is correct, though, in stat­ing that Notre Dame "does not produce geniuses" at a faster rate than Indiana University. That is because ND, like all other colleges, is not a factory for geniuses but rather an in­stitution of learning. 
The focus here is not on creat­ing inhuman, mathematical machines, but on developing mature, intelligent, independent adults. And, in my opinion, we succeed. "I just think that the most competent person often gets denied simply because he or she doesn't have the inside track." I agree, Mr. Hurst; injustice and discrimination abound in today's world, but we are all responsible for that. 
I believe, though, that you can do something about it. As John Cougar Mellencamp says in "Minutes to Memories," "Suck it up and tough it out and do the best you can." 
Now, before I go, I want to make it clear that I am not try­ing to rip on Mr. Hurst or Indiana University. My brother is a student there, and it is a widely respected university (and deservedly so) However, his statements about Notre Dame are dead wrong. 
We aren't all rich; a lot of us busted our butts to get here, and we're doing the same to pay for it. Also, the student body is not "arrogant." Where I come from, we call it PRIDE, and those without pride in who they are or what they do are destined for mediocrity. 
I'm only a freshman, Mr. Hardy, and have only been here for a month. like Mr. Hurst, I knew about all the stereotypes that exist about Notre Dame. Speaking impartially, I can honestly assure him that they are 100 percent incorrect. 
The people here, especially the upperclassmen, are very dedicated and more than willing to lend a helping hand. Believe me, they know plenty about hard work and sacrifice. 
I somewhat understand his hostility, but I've quickly come to find out that there's more to Notre Dame than meets the eye. It is a special place; please, don't knock it 'til you try it. 
Sean Mangan 
Cavanaugh Hall 
Sept. 29,1991 
'Nobody can be exactly like me. Sometimes I even have trouble doing it.' 
Tallulah Bankhead 
We WON'T print anonymous quotes! QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND.IN 46556 

Viewpoint

Page 12 Tuesday, October 1, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Missing link' adds unique perspective to the ND/SMC debate 
Dear Editor: my college career. accomplishment of my twenty By the same token, the men my grandma came to visit. We 
I am not a "SMCer," nor am I Freshman year came and years. What did I learn? -In a and women of Notre Dame and toured both campuses. (As I a "Domer," yet I have attended went, and with it came the word -PEOPLE. People are Saint Mary's need each other. I said, I still cannot decide where school in South Bend, as I will freshman "ups" and "downs" -people are people. do not mean to infer that Notre I belong.) Then I came to a continue to do until the spring all-nighters and road trips, the In Italy, Germany, Greece, Dame needs Saint Mary's for its very simple conclusion. Saint of 1993. No, I do not go to Saint boyfriend and the breakup, Austria, Switzerland and Education program or that Mary's is an outstanding col­Joseph's High School, Holy roommates in THE QUINT, Czechoslovakia-people are Saint Mary's needs Notre lege. Notre Dame is an out­
· Cross Junior College, or IUSB. "Baby Bio," football, SYRs and people are people. Don't we all Dame's social life. People need standing university. Why the Still, everyone needs an identity. formals. I was even put on have a desire to love and be people-in friendship, in competition? They are not the So, I like to think of myself as probation for six empty beer loved? relationships, in work and in same, never will be the same. the "missing link." cans (but don't tell mom!). Still, It did not matter that our play. Why do we pit the student body 
For two years I lived, worked, I survived. Rome program was a mixture Wouldn't it be a shame if you against the other? played, and studied at Saint Then I went to Rome. That's of Saint Mary's women, Notre and I should never meet, never The solution to the rivalry is Mary's College -and I loved it. where the real education Dame men and women, as well influence each other's lives, not to be found in social out­
I came to South Bend, Indiana began. Travel abroad and an as people from other colleges never give each other a chance ings, academic meetings, or ex­when I was a junior in high open mind go hand in hand -I and universities. In four short simply because you are a tra-curricular events. The an­school. I had never heard of don't know if I went with an months, we became a family. "Domer" and I am a swer is (and must be) in each of this little, all-women's college. open mind or learned "open­Perhaps with the limited lug­"SMCer"? ... or am I? Does it us. Take the time. Keep an Mter a weekend at LeMans and mindedness," but it happened. gage we were permitted to take, matter? open mind. Holy Cross, I fell in love-with In Italy, the -people live for there was no room -for Actually, I am a Notre Dame I already have my Saint Mary's the campus, with the traditional people. It's a simple philosophy, unnecessary baggage, namely student. When I returned from ring. If I ever pay otT my pre­atmosphere, with the college. I but effective. stereotypes. Maybe the people Rome, I changed majors. For sent debts, I hope to purchase a was equally impressed with the I think it would be safe to say on the program were just spe­my particular course of study, I Notre Dame ring.women-confident, classy and that this beautiful culture cial (which they are). Still, I felt that transferring would be a Yes, I would wear them side byindependent. touched and changed each and don't think those 60 individuals wise choice, though it was side ... but then what would you
As a senior in high school, I every one of us who were lucky were any different from those difficult to leave Saint Mary's. make ofme? 
applied only to Saint Mary's enough to experience it. on the home campus. The The competition and rivalrywith plans of pursuing a degree It is impossible to convey all difference is we gave each other between the two schools left me Heather Rakoczy in elementary education. that I experienced in my a chance. Of course, we had to. feeling disloyal to my college. Off-campusAccepted on early admission, I European travels. Sufficed to Very few of us were fluent in I did not overcome these Sept. 26, 1991 
anxiously anticipated starting say , it was the most rewarding Italian. We needed each other. Benedict Arnold feelings until 
norant claims 
Dear Editor: Are these achievements at 
I am writing in response to which we should hang our Steve Hurst's recent column, heads? "Notre Dame arrogance not Mr. Hurst also claims that the limited only to football," which reason students come to Notre appeared in both the Indiana Dame is because "if you gradu­Daily Student and Notre Dame's ate from Notre Dame, you can newspaper, The Observer write your own ticket." This is a (Wednesday, Sept. 25, 1991). misconception which ranks 
Mr. Hurst states that he felt with other groundless better "just writing about the assumptions such as "all lU 
P•• 

incredible detest I feel for this students take basket-weaving to evil place and all those associ­bring up their GPAs." ated with it." How relieved I am Notre Dame students work 
that it took a simple letter to very hard for their degrees. We unique to Notre Dame. fine school, having excellent my school; he is entitled to his 
1;.· ease his pain, as he seems to also go through the same ago­Academic standards are high at programs with established emotions. I do, however, have a have the intellect and ground­nizing procedures to get into NO for everyone from student reputations nationwide. problem with his unfounded, less anger of a fanatical terror­graduate/law school or to find a athletes to alumni relatives. Perhaps Mr. Hurst is not in one unstudied, ignorant excuses for 
ist. Obviously Mr. Hurst job after graduation as does I know, because my grandfa­of them; otherwise I am sure he his hatred. A person of Mr. 
knows little or nothing about every Joe College. I know, be­
ther was a student at Notre would be aware of this. I know Hurst's mindset is no credit to the University of Notre Dame, cause I am a senior and dealing Dame 1940-46, an assistant there are many companies his own school. He does nothing and I hope to help him under­with this now. coach under Frank Leahy, and which would hire an lU engi­to foster relations between stand the error of his ways. I agree with Mr. Hurst that 
a member of the National neering or business student Indiana University and Notre 
Mr. Hurst claims that the connections are important, but Alumni Board of Directors. as above those from other colleges Dame. Notre Dame student body is no ND alumnus is going to hire well as a catalyst in the forma­partially because of lU's repu­I am certain that other IV stu­"arrogant" and that it is time an ND student simply on the tion of organizations for student tation in these areas. dents have more presence of they "got otT [their] high horse." basis of their shared ties to the It is sad that, in his article,
athletes and alumni alike. mind than to hate the students He does not, apparently, com­University. When I filled out my Notre Mr. Hurst belittles the univer­of another university because 
,, 
prehend the difference between I regret that Mr. Hurst believes Dame application, I certainly do sity he is trying so hard to they did not enjoy a football 
arrogance and school pride. this practice occurs; if this is not recall seeing any question tout-his own. While whining game. I have a number of 
Notre Dame students are what he believes is standard as to whether the applicant has about the supposed unfair friends at IV, and I believe that proud of their school, its his­hiring procedure, he will have a had any relatives attending the "benefits" Notre Dame students they do not share his views. tory, achievements, reputation shock when he joins the rest of University. I am proud to say I are privy to because of the Perhaps it is time Mr. Hurs,and ability to compete nation­us in the real world. 
had no help from or influence reputation of Notre Dame and got off his own high horse. But ally among finer schools. We As far as Notre Dame admis­as a result of my grandfather's its alumni, he is only belittling he should climb down gingerly;have reason to be proud-NO sions standards are concerned, achievements; I was accepted to the achievements, reputation judging from his tirade of has made great progress in re­Mr. Hurst is clueless. It takes Notre Dame on my own merit. I and alumni of his own school. If groundless blither in his article cent decades and has become a high SAT scores and grades re­deeply resent Hurst's I were an lU student, past or it seems he has no horse under 


fine research facility. Notre gardless of one's familial ties to insinuations to the contrary, present, I would be insulted. him to begin with. Dame students, faculty, and the University. Granted, a few both on a personal level and on I believe that, as far as Notre alumni have also made tremen­students may slip in under the behalf of all Notre Dame Dame is concerned, people ei­Katie McBride 
,1.' dous contributions on commu­requirements, but it is my belief students. ther love it or hate it. I have no Walsh Hall nity, state and national levels. that this phenomenon is not Indiana University is a very problem with Mr. Hurst hating Sept. 26, 1991 
Reputation and tradition make N D an easy target for jealous criticism 
Dear Editor: 
On Wednesday, Sept. 25, like most Notre Dame students I settled down in the South Dining Hall with my copy of the Observer, ready to take in the news. When I got to the Viewpoint section I was disappointed, but not surprised, that one more student from a different school decided to rip on us again. 
This is what we're up against as students under the Dome. We, as students and even the players on our football team, are always criticized because of our history and the reputation everybody else would like to have. 
It doesn't matter if our university discovered the cure for cancer in Nieuwland, it's overlooked and the fact that we didn't find it earlier is pointed out. But, if, heaven forbid two of our football players actually attend a party and have a good time, well, then I suppose that's cause enough to plaster the media with every derogatory moral comment about the student body in general here in South Bend. 
As to Mr. Steve Hurst's (IU student who wrote dumb article) comment about how everybody at ND needs two wallets because we're all so rich, listen. Sure, some people here have money, some don't. I'm sure if you look at people in Bloomington you'll find more than a few who have fathers' with six figure incomes. 
Personally, I'm paying for college out of my own pocket and have a lot of red numbers after my name at the credit union. That's right, the pocket that has all that money I'm supposed to have. 
The fact that Mr. Hurst did acknowledge the fact that it does take a lot to wear the blue and gold does show a little class, small and probably sarcastic as it was. I, for one, will not lower myself to his level and point out the admission criteria to be a Hoosier! 

He says we all live on our high horses, well maybe he'd get some respect if he stopped making comments straight from the manure. 
Sure I don't like all football announcers either (especially Musberger), but if one flippant comment on the air about the Indiana offense, or a loss td a higher ranked football team means that much to him that he has to pull out his crayolas and. write some idiotic editorial against our school, there's something wrong with him. 
I think we all know that student would take back every comment he made, for a chance to go here. Or maybe the admissions board already turned him down? Jealousy? Nah. 
I honestly hope that someday that IU student works at NBC, like maybe the guy who has to put up all the "Notre Dame Saturday" posters! 
Bill Steinbach Dillon Hall 
Sept. 25, 1991 

Accent 
Tuesday, October 1 , 1991 page 13 

New social center 

instituted at Saint Mary's 
By MAGGIE HELLRUNG 
Accent Writer 
One of the United Way's most familiar slogans is "We need more of you." The demand for volunteers in this society is enormous, and in this day and age, the cry for help from the homeless, the jlbused, the illiterate, and the uncared for people of our communities is impossible to ignore. 
For those living on the Notre Dame campus, opportunities to act within the South Bend community are available at the Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns (CSC). 
For Saint Mary's students, op­portunities are available, but they are across the street at Notre Dame. But recently, through the work of Sharon Zint, a senior at Saint Mary's College, the thought of having a student operated volunteer office at Saint Mary's College will become a reality. 
The volunteer office is called the Spes Unica (One Hope) Resource and Volunteer Center (SURV). The office is being assisted by Campus Ministry, the· Justice Education Department, the 
M.I.N.T. Office (Minorities, International, Non-traditional Students Office), and several St. Joseph County community service organizations. 
Their goal is for the faculty, staff, and students of Saint Mary's to work together to provide volunteer opportunities and services for all Saint Mary's students interested in making a difference in the South Bend community. 
Zint realized how important a separate volunteer office would be for both Saint Mary's and the community through the enormous amount of 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's senior Sharon Zint is working to organize the Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer Center (SURV), a new 

social center at Saint Mary's. 
volunteer work she participated in 
throughout her college career. The 
summer before Zint's sophomore year 
in college for the Department of 
Commerce and State in her home town 
of Phoenix, Arizona. 
There she dealt with low 
income families and the homeless. 
Zint's sophomore year was spent abroad in Angers, France, where she spent much time volunteering for a shelter for battered women and work­ing with retarded adults. That summer, Zint returned to the Department of Commerce and State in Phoenix. 
The summer of Zint's senior year, she worked for the Department of Economic Development and Research in Phoenix, where she dealt with low and moderate income families and their service needs. 
Zint also participated in an urban plunge that summer, and it was at that time that she realized the incredible need for help in the global community. 
"It really opened my eyes to the need in our communities," said Zint. 
At this time Zint also realized the need for a social center at Saint Mary's as well as at Notre Dame. "I had a pretty good idea there was nothing on Saint Mary's campus in the way of a volunteer organization, "said Zint. 
"To learn of volunteer opportunities, programs, or social seminars in the past, one had to go off .campus to the Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns to find out about volunteer information." 
Zint wrote a proposal with short and long term goals for a possible social center, and after a few meetings with Student Government and the 
administration, was granted an office 
for social concerns in 250 Haggar 
College Center. 

The SURV center is designed not only to bring social awareness of the problems South Bend faces, but the center also offers Saint Mary's women a chance to participate in volunteer opportunities with other Saint Mary's women on campus, in turn strengthening the unity of the SMC community. 
A major difference between the Notre Dame and the Saint Mary's center is Saint Mary's forthcoming participation in a national campus­based program called "Into The Streets... "Into The Streets" is a brand new annual nation-wide program aimed at increasing community participation among college students involving community service and problem-solving. "Into the Streets" will be formally launched on November 1, 1991. 
Through Zint's development of SURV, Saint Mary's service clubs will also work with the center, each taking on different community service tasks. Women For the Environment, World Hunger Coalition, Campus Ministry, Circle K, M.I.N. T. students, Social Action Club, Fun-n-Learn, the Women's Alliance, and Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (C.A.R.E.) are service clubs included in the coalition to increase volunteerism. 
They will be addressing several national issues including domestic vio­lence, the environment, homelessness, hunger, illiteracy, and substance abuse. 
One of the unique services Zint is introducing for the SMC service center, 
is SURV's special focus on women and 
children. SURV will be working with 
the United Way and the YWCA to help 
women and children in need in the 
South Bend community. 
SURV will also work hand in hand 
with the Sisters of Holy Cross, sending 
volunteers to all five nursing homes 
and to St. Joseph's Hospital. 
"Working with the Sisters of Holy Cross brings us back to our roots," explains Zint. Assisting in this effort will be the Saint Mary's Women's Alliance, and the faculty from the Program of Women's Studies. 
The SURV center will also work in conjunction with Notre Dame's CSC for informing students of fall and spring break seminars, as well as Christmas in April. 
This summer, several SMC alumni will sponsor students for a summer service project similar to that at Notre Dame, where students can earn academic scholarships. 
With many ideas in the works, Zint and her committee, made up of two faculty members, one administrator, one representative from campus ministry, and several students, have high hopes for SURV. 
Already off to a running start and anticipating the opening of SURV (October 7. 1991). Zint hopes to convey the message to all students of the importance and availability of volunteering. 
"I hope that we can touch the lives of as many Saint Mary's students as possible,"says Zint, "I would like to raise social awareness here at Saint Mary's, and open opportunities for students to make a difference." 


The Observer/Kevin Weise These past volunteers express a great interest in Christmas in April, which the SURV Center in conjunction with Notre Dame's esc will promote next spring. 

Accent
Tuesda~~ober1, 1991 


Jon Lautrec dispels doubts about hypnotism 

By KAREN ALBERS Accent Writer 
A fuuny thing is about to happen. 
Would you like to see your friend bellow like Tarzan, or try to fly like Supergirl? Maybe you wouldn't mind being convinced that the person sitting next to you is completely naked. It can all be done, through the power of hypnotism. 
Skeptical? Jon Lautrec, "hypnotist extraordinaire," will be appearing at Saint Mary's this evening, and will be more than happy to prove to you the effects of hypnotism. Or, if you already believe in its powers, to get you involved in the show. 
Hypnotism either makes people uneasy or causes them to refute its realities without being aware of its powers. Not many people truly understand what hypnotism is. 
The classical definition of hypnotic sleep is a mind condition in which one's mental action and willpower are under the control of the person who has induced this state. 
We often think of hypnotism as being used only for entertainment purposes, but lately people are using hypnotism to lose weight, quit smoking, and even cure mental illness. 
Perhaps. however, the idea of being hypnotized makes people apprehensive because, in this state, the person is essentially at the mercy of the controller. Lautrec, however, is a sea­soned performer, and makes sure the show is always in good taste. 
Jon Lautrec first learned about hypnotism after getting "pretty banged up" in the Army. 
He spent a year in an Army hospital, where hypnotism was being experimented. He only began practicing what he learned after getting out of the service. 
He performed hypnotism to put himself through college, where he majored in physics and mathematics. Jon says that at first he was extremely skeptical about hypnotism, but now teaches others about healing through hypnosis and enhancing psychic powers. 
Much of Lautrec's success as a performer may come not only from his natural charisma and audience appeal, but from making the audience partici­pate in the show. 
Choosing six to 20 volunteers, he soon has them tap-dancing, bull­fighting. and playing in imaginary sandboxes-in short, things they would never do on their own. 
Lautrec has performed at Saint Mary's before and his show has been applauded as both fascinating and entertaining. 
What is Lautrec's favorite aspect about his career? 
"The whole thing is fantastic," he says. adding that he once was an executive in an automotive corporation, but enjoys his present career much more. 
Jon Lautrec's performance is sponsored by Club Tuesday, a division of Saint Mary's Student Activities Board that is aimed at providing a variety of entertainers in a club-like atmosphere for students. 
Already, Club Tuesday has brought to campus a stand-up comedian, professional guitarist, and SMC's own Andrew Cutrofello, a philosophy professor who "put aside the books" to entertain the students with his guitar. 
Along with the hypnotism show, Jon Lautrec is also offering a seminar entitled "Detecting The Ue," a helpful study designed to teach you how to perceive when others are lying to you-or to become a better liar yourself. 
The seminar will take place in Haggar College Center, room 303. from 
7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. tonight. The performance itself will be the same evening in Carroll Auditorium, Madaleva Hall, at 9:00 p.m. Admission is $2.00. 
So whether you're a hard-headed skeptic, a believer, or just want to take part in the fun, Jon Lautrec's performance promises to be a compelling one. Come to Saint Mary's and see the funny things that are about to happen. 

Jack (Jeff Bridges) and Anne (Mercedes Ruehl) plot to bring Parry (Robin Williams) and Lydia (Amanda Plummer) together in the new release "The Fisher King." 
series of complicated events that take place among many people across many years. 
Not so with"' "The Fisher King." This movie really only has three characters, that of Parry (Robin Williams), Jack (Jeff Bridges) and Anne (Mercedes Ruhle). 
The fourth major character, Parry's beloved Lydia {Amanda Plummer) is too small and mousey to hold our interest long, even though much of the story revolves around her. This is disappointing, for her character would have been interesting to watch develop. 
The three real characters are each fascinating in their own way, but their the characters act the way that you expect them to act. 
This is not to be compared to movies whose characters do predictable things, but are still developing. Movies can be made interesting with relatively boring plotlines as long as the force of the characters powers the movie along. 
"The Fisher King" lacks this, for we are no longer interested in what they are being or becoming. Even Parry's madness is stagnant and underdeveloped, until it mysteriously evaporates at the end of the film. 
It is interesting how something that should be so changing and driving in a character, such as the quality of insanity, makes Parry's character stale in this film. 
This is not to say he isn't cute or funny. Throughout this film, the force of Williams', Bridges'. and Ruhle's acting makes this movie alternately moving and funny. They play their roles admirably, and no one would deny that all three are excellent actors. 
The story, that of a jaded radio announcer's (Bridges) eventual reform from jerk to sweetheart by the machinations of an insane homeless man (Williams), and the parallel re­covery from madness in Williams aided by Bridges, is actually very nicely put together. 
This script, with it's admirably realistic dialogue, is well-written. It was just badly produced and strung out far longer than needed. 
So, once again, a movie with great potential is ruined. It truly is a pity, for such talent was wasted. Actually, it might be worth the price of a ticket just to see Ruhle's performance as Bridges' tacky Brooklyn girlfriend. 
She is pricelessly funny and co~vincing as the "dumb broad." However, the movie as a whole is long, drawn out, and redundant. 
~ , I, • -­
Tuesday, October 1, 1991 The Observer page 15 
"When someone is down or Although she has contributed Peters. "I'm definitely trying to outlook for this year's team. unsure of themselves, she her leadership qualities and get the spot back, but for now, "We have improved in hitting
Choquette 
encourages them on," said athletic skills to the team, she is even though I see a lot of and blocking but we need to junior teammate Marilyn struggling for her starting playing time, my contribution work on our passing and
continued from page 24 
Cragin. "She expresses great position with freshman Kristy will have to take on a different serving. As soon as we focus on Choquette, as captain, is leadership qualities and Peters. nature." those aspects, then fulfilling our regarded a strong leader to the therefore she's someone the "Kristy is a really good goal of going to the (NCAA) team. team respects." player," Choquette says of Choquette sees a positive tournament is possible." 
The Observer accepts classified& every busi.-s day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. &1309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline lor next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All ctassifiedS must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES I  FAST, PROFESSIONAL WORD 0­C Senior needs 4 USC GAs desperately 288-0933  WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL 601-249-3417 NIGHTS.  Need 3-4 PITT. TICKETS. Will pay the big bucks! Jeff 234-2396.  ! I HAPPY BIRTHDAY SARAH ! I ! I I HAPPY BIRTHDAY SARAH I I I ! HAPPY BIRTHDAY SARAH I ! I  Julie a.k.a Mayo Jr. Thanks for putting up with my love stories, even at odd hours. Hope  
HAVE 2 PITI 2 NAVY TIX;  LOVE, THE BP 3-S WING  your weekend was as good as  
*NOTRE DAME VIDEO*  PROCESSING $1.00 DOUBLE  4 TENNESSEE GA's  NEED 2 USC TIX;  TODAY'S SURVEY : THE BEST  mine.  
!HOT NEW RELEASE! THE DOORS  SPACED PAGE BEFORE 4-239­21 74 AFTErl 5-277-6304/683-5290  Big, I mean Big Bucks! Sean x4274  WILL SWAP 201-487-9000 WILL BUY USC AND TENNESSEE  WAY TO CELEBRATE A BIRTHDAY!  Your roomie.........••.••..........  
(many copies in stock)  FOR RENT  Help! 3 GAs needed for PITT Call X1678  GA's FOR $100 A TICKET 2773097  Hey ROZ-MAN!! What is the opportunity cost of NOT  Go Walsh football-Beat O.C.II Don't fret-it's not our fault  
Lafortune Student Center  I need 2 USC tix  studying for the test?  the ref.'s don't know what an  
Open from 4PM-11 PM  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  $$$$$ NEED 3 USC OR TENN TIX  Tom 13109  You WILL do well. After all, it's your  offensive penalty is-much  
219-291-7153  CAll MICHELE 272-6327  major!!  less anything else about foot­ 
IRISH GARDENS  I need 4 GA's for the USC game.  ball!!!  
Flowers for your Mate  House for Rent  FULFILL MY NEEDS!!! 2 PITT & 4  Please call Carla at  Yo- Good Luck!  
When you go on that  $200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159  TENN GA CALL TIM 11706  x5404  love,  
Special Date!  8am-4pm. 1310 South Bend Ave.  I HAVE NAVY STUD TO TRADE  NEED 3 USC GA TIX; CALL DAVE  Hergie, Ken, Matt, Diane, Angie, Doug, Keith, and Scott  The Monster......................  
Lafortune Student Center  OR SELL NEED PITT GA OR  283·1545.  
USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIII!II!I  FOR SALE  STUD. MARY 2648.  I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY AND  The roadtrip was a blast!!  Second Floor Walshiites, This year has truly been superb so  
25% off list price  Need 2 or 4 PITI GAs. Will pay  TENN.  Thanx for letting me ride up with  far!  
10-5:30 everyday  CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill  $$$ Call Pat, 234-3973 after 6PM  you!  We're having a blast!  
Pandora's Books corner of NO ave & Howard  T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T­Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone Game Day Promotions 291-6394.  I NEED 5 TENN. GA'S SO BAD! MUCH $$$$CAN BE HAD!  CAU TOM X1762  Love, Marten  Hey frosh-CJ's this weeki!I -Bufty..........•...........  
TYPING AVAILABLE  CAll DEREK, O.C.I234-6976  I NEED PITI GA'S X3467  P.S. You can't say you've never  
287-4082  OVER 40 o/o OFF  been in the paper now!  Irish Music & Dance @ Club 23  
Hawaii plane ticke~HEAP!  i need 2 GAs for PITT for my aunt,  Every Tuesday in October  
Typing  -Over Thanksgiving to see the NO  who's a nun, and her friend, another  FOR SALE: PITT GA's  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  SEAUAISIN  
Fast, Professional  football game in Honolulu. Call  nun. Would you deny a nun her fun?  CALL x1781  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  
277-7406 ILOST/FOUND I  x3457 for info. COMPUTERS! Mac+, 2dd, ptr, $700/bst John@271-9239 Apt //gs Supersystem, $1100  Greg x1795 ........................ I HAVE USC, PITI, & TENN GA'S  MAKE OFFER........................ I NEED USC,TENN,PITT,& NAVY GA TIXS.272·6306  for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. THE ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE lessons and information  Rich-Great Inside column yesterday! Now don't get a big head about it.  
Found: EYEGLASSES on north  386sx mthrbrdlupgrade your  x1002 TO MAKE OFFER  288-4919  (oops, too late, your head doesn't  
quad between BP and Cavanaugh-cali x1676 &claim  PC! $350,386 notebook 40megs, VGA, $2400/b  ........................  I NEED 2-3 PITI GA'S Julie x2912  LEARN TO.SKYOIVE! Classes  even fit in the box)  
Matt x1778  every Sat. &Sun. at 8:00 am.  Love, Marten  
LOST: NO CLASS RING AT  HELP!! I need PITI TIX for my  NEED 2 PITT GA'S  Eastern time. Train and jump the  
SENIOR BAR OR LINEBACKER.  For Sale:  parents and some friends--if  CALL JOANNE X4899  same day. Modem equipment and  P.S. Wow, is this an innuendo  
BLACK ONYX WITH M.F.  Tixto DC  I don't get'em I'm deadll  training programs. Ucensed  ridden personal or what.  
CARROLL INSCRIBED IN IT.  for October Break  Please call lynne@ X2614  Needed: 2 USC GA's.  instructors. FFI calf Skydive  
REWARD. CAU MIKE 271·8159.  10/18-10125  Call Sheila 283-4842.  Hastings (616) !MB-2665.  
$200 or negotiable  STUD TICKET BOOK FOR SALE  Top ten quotes from Jeff Sabella's  
LOST  Call 284-4452  CALL 3516  Need2TNGAs  CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP  love journey:  
Saphira Braclet  MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30 P.M.  10. Are anyone's BLs asleep yet?  
Reward if found  1988 TOYOTA CARROLA SR-5  NEEDED 2·3 GA'S FOR NAVY!  Zeke 1786  FOR INFO: CAll 272-8890  9. Kelley, do you still have that Joe  
Calf Heather 277-5280  SILVER, NEW SNOWS, NO  Will PAY $$$ CALL 2605  button?  
MAINTENANCE, GREAT CARl  I NEED 2 NAVY G.A.S  CLUB 23  8. John, your breath smells like 0011  
LOST!!Ill!IIIII!  GREAT BUY AT $5200!  I need Tix all games  CALL SCOTT X1688  &  dung.  
256-7013  Jason x2030  VIC'S SUBS  7. Who was I with fast night?  
i lost my i.d., detex, etc.  Need 2-4 USC GAs  6. Ute is just about broads and good  
at STAR WARS friday night  88 Plym. Horizon <45,000 mi  Need two GA's for Tennessee and  &1 Pitt tix ASAP!!  are now open from  sex.  
(10:30 show)  VERY WEll MAINTND. Finnegan  two for USC. Will PAY!! Bifl2157  Kathy x3803  11 amto3am  5. Go ahead, card me.  
Pteeeze call lisa right away VERY IMPORTANT!  x1412  ...,,.,  The only alternative  4. 911 is a joke in yo town. 3. Can I buy you anothef shot?  
X4862  TICKETS  WANT TO BUY: Football ticket application  FOR SALE NAVY GAs  Live Music and Specials (r Subs only $2 on Tuesdays)  (Pant, pant) 2. I think they just threw drinks at  
FOUND: GRAY WALLET IN  Call271-1430  2704 by Wed!  Phone: 234-4015  each other.  
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER.  NEED 2GA OR 1 STD/1 GA FOR  t##f:l###l#  1. Get up f-ers, we're going to the  
CALL STELIUS AT 277-8827 TO  USC, TENN. CALL KEN-3598.  breakfast club!!  
IDENTIFY.  Need 1 NAVY GA -Tony 12199  Do you care about animal rights?  
i need 2 GAs to TENNESSEE Why  WANTED: 2 TENN TICKETS  orl2174  Learn more at Animal Rights  Top10 quotes from the camping  
LOST OR STOLEN  don't you sell them to me? I am Jan.  PLEASE CALL EMILY AT  Seminar in South Bend Oct. 191  queen and 3 city slickers trip  
LICENSE PLATE Illinois plate reading ·o TROir missing since  Call me for a good time, 277-6885. NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  277-4861....................  PERSONAL  Sponsored by PETA. Call 232-7971 for info. on registration.  1 O.What did you put in those drinks dude?! 9.Are you sure you can fit two  
Thurs. 19 Sept.; came off  WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655.  I just want somebody to love ...  I am the Lizard King and I can do  OVER 40 o/o OFF  people in those showers?  
somewhere between Kaplan  and two NAVY GA's!  anything.  Hawaii plane tickets-CHEAP!  8.Are they fighting or are they just  
Educational Center (next to Turtle  WANTED: 3 PITI GA's for  THink you can help? call 1371  -Qver Thanksgiving to see the ND  really active?  
Creek) and the D-2 lot. I realize it's  family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!  ask for STEVE.  $$$$  football game in Honolulu. Call  7.Two in a bunk makes for the  
cute, but it will cost a bundle to  HELP ME! Dan x2349  WILL TOP *ANY* PRICE!!!  Need GA's to all horne games.  x3457 for info.  ultimate heater.  
replace so PLEASE return if you  NO KIDDING!!!  have extra Purdue tix.  6.1t's the position that makes you  
have it and no questions will be  Call Tom x1563  •• MOVIES on a NY BUS? ••  tart!  
asked!! If you have the plate or info,  NEED: NQ AlUM NEEDS TICKETS  NEEDED! Pitt GAs Navy stud. If  1st time! Bus wNCR to ll-lv 10/19  5.1'm an enigma! (What???)  
call 4911. Generous reward  TO ANY OR ALL NO HOME  you can help call Scott 2373.  Happy birthday Joe Roberts.  rtn 1 0/25-sign up &$ Oct 3  4.Woufd YOU rock the boat?  
offered. FOUND: SET OF KEYS IN  GAMES. CALL JOE AT 1271-1430........................•  I NEED TENN TIX BADLY! CALL MIKE AT 1103.  Going to CLEVELAND this weekend? I might like a ride,  Lafortune 8-10pm. ?s Janice x2639, Jonix3793  3.We're making a Hot concoction. 2Do you like it soft and floppy or hot and toasty?  
COUNTRY HARVESTER ON 9/24.  please. Pete x1791.  We need enthusiastic, articulate  1.0nce you pull it out, it's hard to  
CALL 239-6714 AFTER  PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX  FOR SALE, 2 TIXS All HOME  individuals to communicate with our  get it back in!  
12:30 PM & IDENTIFY.  Alum needs 2 GA's for Pitt. Will pay  GAMES 273-1802  FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP +  computer product customers world­ Dude, when are we camping again?  
$$$. Call at work  CASH! CANCUN, JAMAICA,  wide. Full and part-time positions  
LOST· J-Crew Bam Jacket  (312) 701-6204 or at home  HELP!  BAHAMAS! SELL TRIPS ON  available from 10am-7pm.  THE LIZARD KING IS DEAD!  
Olive Green. Lost Thursday  (708) 616-7818 anytime.  TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED  CAMPUS AND EARN FREE TRIP +  Familiarity with personal computers  LONG LIVE THE LIZARD PRINCE!  
September, 19. Call Mike  PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX  Please call Sam Santo at  BONUS CASH! FOUR SEASONS  helpful but not required. Our terrific  
X2095  (201 )217-0030 (home) or  1·800-331-3136.  staff, pleasant working conditions  HEY WILBS...HOWS THAT DIP?  
2G.A.,s Stanford For Sale  (201) 992-8700 (work).  and new office building on the river  
WANTED  Call John @4050 Need one Navy GAll!-call  I NEED 2 NAVYG.A.s  Monica Eigefberger is a ho. SENTENCED TO A PAPER TERM?  create a positive non-smoking environment. Send resume to: Department CD  ERIC, TOM, AND STEVE GET NO PLAY AND LIKE IT !Ill  ..  
MAKE $150-$300 in 3-10 hrs. by  Ellen--277-4892  LYNN x-3890  Trying to beef up a meatless  Microshpere, Inc.  
selling 50 funny college T-shirts. No  resume? We can help with all sorts  56790 Magnetic Dr.  
financial obligation. Smaller or  WANTED: 2 NO/TN tickets. CAll  I'M OUT OF LUCK....UNLESS YOU  of editorial services.  Mishawaka, IN 46545  
larger quantities available. Call tollfree 1-800-728-2053.  502-354-8826 from 5 pm to 9pm collect.  SELL ME 2 GA'S TO U.S.C. CALL X3414 -ASK FOR KATHY'S LOG  IDEAS INTO INK 288-3508  ***CAMP lEWts•••  UISI $500...$1 000...$1500  
WANTED female roomate 2bdrm, apt. Runaway Bay call 259-3646. HELP!! DESPERATELY need  I have 2 NAVY GAs will trade for 2 PITI GAs call Nicole at x3719 I need tickets for the Tennessee game. Call2n-6693.  VINCE (KATHY'S LOG) BUONOCOURSI NEEDS 2 U.S.C. GA'S FOR HIS DOMER RELATIVES. HELP OUT THIS ZIPLESS BY CAUING X3414 OR 3410 OR AT RAMONA'S AFTER lAM  URGENT! Rich Alumnus needs 2 PITI TIX Kathleen @ x3726 x4132. ATTENTION MICH. ST. VIEWERS! I need a copy of the Mlch St. vs. NO '91 game on video for a spirited NO  You don't have to pass the swim test SENIORS: Only one more day until the Post Graduate Fair. Come find out what service opportunities are available to you Wednesday from 7­10pm at the esc.  /FOOL! ~~~t·!·J~....-.~  
4 GA's for USC for family!! Alice x4907 PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA  NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE CALL JILL 272-1967. NEED 1 GA FOR PITTSBURGH  I NEED 5 TICKETS TO NDIPITI BIG$$$ CAU MATT AT 2n­4673  fan who missed it. Contact Gabrielle at x2855 DO YOU KNOW WHO THIS IS?  To My BIG Brothers ­Thanks so much for this weekend. It meant a lot to me. Mike and  RAISING  
Now hiring drivers 1D-40 hrs. per wk. Wages + tips + comm. Flexible schedules & perks. Call today 271­1177. HOUSEUATE WANTED: Share 2  JOE X1360 NEEDED: 4 PITT GAs Call Heather at 3427. HAVE 2 STANFORD TICKETS  -2 PITI GA's NEEDED­-BIGMONEY-Calf Rachel271-1497  I DIDN'T THINK SO. (CLICK) THURSDAY IS PK'S 8-DAY 0esperatetv need ride to Gainsville, Florida or anywhere in the vicinity for October break.  Doug, thanks for your support Sunday. So what if the SYR wasn't that great, I didn't get much sleep anywayI You guys are the greatest. and next week -I buy the beerlll Always • Kirsten  For your fraternity, sorortty, ttNJm or olher c•mpus org•nlzstlon. AUOUnll.' 110.,.,...,..,.......  
BA house with Grad M. Avail NaN.  Call Kelley 4836  NEED 2 GA's FOR PITT, USC,  Call Kathy at 284-5269  P.S. I'm moving In this weeki  CAlll-800·950·8~72. ext 50  
288-3878Lv msg.  AND TENN. CAll GREG x2092  

-___________...... 


------------------------------------------·-------------------------------------------------------------~--~ 
Scoreboard Tuesday, October 1, 1991
page 1 6 
BASEBALL STANDINGS NFL STANDINGS
TRANSACTIONS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Eaat Dlvlalon 

BASEBALL AMERICAN CONFERENCE National leagu.
w L Pet <B L10 Streak Home Away FLORIDA MARLINS-Named Frank Wren w L T Pet. Ff' PA
Toronto 87 70 .554 5-5 Lost 44-35 43-35 assistam general manager.
Boston 83 73 .532 3 112 4·6 Won 42·33 41·40 Buffalo 5 0 0 1.000 162 115 BASKETBALL Miami 2 3 0 .400 100 112
Detroit 80 76 .513 6 112 5·5 Won 49·32 31-44 
BASKETBALL HALl. OF FAME-Named New England 2 3 0 .400 56 91
Milwaukee 77 78 .497 9 7-3 Lost 43-37 34-41 
35-40 32-49 Robin J. Deutsch public relations director. N.Y. Jets 2 3 0 .400 103 98New Yortt 67 89 .429 19 112 5-5 Won 
National Baaketball Aaaoclatlon Indianapolis 0 5 0 .000 40 113
Baltimore 66 90 .423 20 112 5-5 Lost 32-46 34·44 
ATLANTA HAWKS-Signed S1acey Central
Cleveland 54 101 .348 32 5-5 Lost 29-49 25-52 Augmon, forward, to a 5-year com·ract. Houston 3 1 0 .750 114 55 Renounced the rights to Sidney Moncrief, Cleveland 2 2 0 .500 58 52
Weat Dlvlalon w L Pet <B L10 Streak Home Away guard. Pittsburgh 2 2 0 .500 94 101 83 43-35 LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS--Named Mack Cincinnati 0 4 0 .000 61 123
x-Minnesota 93 .596 6-4 Won 1 50-28 Calvin assistant coach. 
We at

Chicago 84 72 .538 9 4-6 Lost 2 44-34 40-38 
39-42 LOS ANGELES LAKER5-Signed Irving Denver 4 1 0 .800 114 65
Taus 82 74 .526 11 5 ·5 Lost 2 43-32 
5-5 1 Thomas, Tony Farmer, Roy Fisher and Keith Kansas Chy 0 65 63
Oakland 82 75 .522 11 112 Lost 47-34 35-41 3 2 .600 
o-ns, forwards. and Tony Smith, LA Aalders 3 2 0 .600 78 87
Kansas City 8 1 76 .516 12 112 6·4 Won 2 39-40 42-36 
14 5-5 Won 2 43-35 36-42 Demetrius Callp and Jason Matthews, Seattle 2 3 0 .400 98 79Seattle 79 77 .506 
guards. 114
California 7 8 79 .497 15 112 5·5 Won 1 37·41 41·38 San Diego 0 5 0 .000 76 
FOOTBALL National Football League NATIONAL CONFERENCENATIONAL LEAGUE GREEN BAY PACKERS-Traded Tim Harris, 
East linebacker, to the San Francisco 49ers lor a w L T Pet. Ff' PA 
Eaat Dlvlelon 

W L Pet <B l10 Streak Home Away Won 2 49-30 46-32 second-round draft plc:k In 1992 and either Washington 5 0 0 1.000 169 58
x-Pittsburgh 95 62 .605 6·4 
a second-or third-round pic:k in 1993. Dallas 96
St. Louis 82 75 .522 13 6-4 Won 50-32 32-43 3 2 0 .600 95 
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Waived Darrel Philadelphia 3 2 0 .600 77 66
New Yortt 75 81 .481 19 112 5·5 Lost 40-42 35·39 
44-34 31-48 Fullington, safety. Phoenix 3 2 0 .600 83 85
Philadelphia 75 82 .478 20 5·5 Won 1 
HOCKEY

Chicago 73 82 .471 21 3·7 Lost 1 43-37 30-45 N.Y. Giams 2 3 0 .400 75 84 
National Hockey League Central
Montreal 70 86 .449 24 112 6·4 Lost 2 33-35 37-51 
BOSTON BRUINS-Se'lt John Blue, Chicago 4 0 .800 90 91 goaltender, John Byce, forward, and Jim Detroit 4 1 0 .800 104 99
Weat Divlelon 

Wiemer, delenseman, to Maine of the Minnesota 2 3 0 .400 49 82
W L Pet <B L10 Streak Home Away Won 1 52-26 38-40 American Hockey League. Green Bay 1 4 0 .200 66 95
Los Angeles 90 66 .577 7·3 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Sen! Brian Tampa Bay 0 5 0 .000 59 100Atlanta 90 67 .573 112 6·4 Won 4 46·32 44-35 McReynolds, center; Steven King, right wing; We at
San Diego 80 76 .513 10 6·4 Lost 39-39 41·37 
Lost 39-40 Joe Paterson, left wing; Jell Bloemberg and New Orleans 5 0 0 1.000 121 47
Cincinnati 7 4 8 3 .471 16 1/2 4-6 1 35-43 
Peter Laviolette, defensemen, and Mark Atlanta 2 3 0 .400 62 88
San Francisco 7 2 8 4 .462 18 4·6 Lost 1 40-35 32·49 LaForest, goaltender, to Binghamton of the LA Rams 2 0 73
Houston 6 2 9 4 .397 28 3-7 Lost 5 37-44 25-50 3 .400 109 American Hockey League. 
x-cllnched division title San Francisco 2 3 0 .400 95 69 SAN JOSE SHARKS-Sent Mikhail SUnday'a Games 
Kravets. Ed Courtenay and David Bruce, Buffalo 35, Chicago 20 
l 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE Saturday'• Gamee forwards, and Artur lrbe, goaltender, to Detroit 31, Tampa Bay 3
Saturday's Gamee 

Kansas City of the lmernational Hockey New Orleans 27, Atlanta 6
Cleveland 5, New York 4 Philadelphia 8, New York 2 
League.

Detroit 5, Baltimore 4, 1 0 Innings St. Louis 3, Chicago 2 Dallas 21, New York Giants 16 Minnesota 5, Toronto 0 VANCOUVER CANUCKS-Sent Alek Los Angeles Raiders 12, San Francisco 6
Atlama 5, Houston 4 
Stojanov, forward, to Guelph of the Omario Los Angeles Rams 23, Green Bay 21
Milwaukee 4, Boston 1 San Francisco 4, Los Angeles 1 
Hockey League; Dave Capuano, Shawn Seattle 31, Indianapolis 3
Texas 6, Oakland 3, 10 Innings Montreal 3, Pittsburgh 2 Chicago 5, Seattle 2 Antoskl and Rob Murphy, forwards, to Kansas City 14, San Diego 13
San Oiego 4, Cincinnati 2 
Milwaukee of the International Hockey New York Jets 41, Miami 23 
I 
California 4, Kansas City 3 SUnday' a Game a 
League; and Adrien Plavslc, defenseman. to Phoenix 24, New England 1 0 
SUnday'• Gamea Pittsburgh 6, Montreal 3 the Canadian Olympic: team.
Cleveland 5, New York 2 New York 4, Philadelphia 3 Denver 13, Minnesota 6 Baltimore 7, Detroit 4 Cincinnati 8, San Diego 1 COLLEGE Monday' a Game 
BOSTON U.-Named David Silk assistant Washington 23, Philadelphia 0
Toronto 2, Minnesota 1 Chicago 5, St. Louis 3 Seattle 2, Chicago 1 
hockey coach. SUnday, Oct. 6Atlanta 6, Houston 5, 13 Innings
Kansas City 8, California 4 COLUMBIA-Named Kelly Phayre women's Dallas vs. Green Bay at Milwaukee, 1 p.m. 
Los Angeles 3, San Francisco 2 Milwaukee 5, Boston 4 
basketball coach. Denver at Houston. 1 p.m. 
Monday'e Gamee 

Oakland 19, Texas 5 MANHATIAN-Named Tom Nugent sports Miami at New England, 1 p.m. 
Late Games Not Included 

information assistant· and assistant Minnesota at Detroit, 1 p.m.
Monday's Gamee Atlama 4, Cincinnati 0

I 
Late Game Not Included coordinator lor compliance. New York Jets at Cleveland, 1 p.m. 
Phtsburgh 6, New York 5 MOUNT ST. VINCENT-Named Lonnie Evans
~ 
Seattle 3, Texas 2, 11 Innings, 1st game Philadelphia at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m.
St. Louis 11, Montreal 1I 
assistant athletic director and men's Seattle at Cincinnati, 1 p.m.
Seattle at Texas, 2nd game, (n)

. 
Philadelphia 6, Chicago 5 
assistant basketball coach; AI Jacoutot Washington at Chicago, 1 p.m. 
New York 3, Cleveland o Houston at San Francisco, (n) 

Detroit 8, Baltimore 3 men's assistant basketball coach; and Bill Phoenix at New York Giants, 4 p.m.
San Diego at Los Angeles, (n) 
O'Neill women's assistant basketball coach. San Diego at Los Angeles Raiders. 4 p.m. 
California 2, Toronto 1 Minnesota 8, Chicago 3 UC IRVINE-Named Chris Gallego Pittsburgh at Indianapolis, 8 p.m. assistant baseball coach.
Boston 9, Milwaukee 8 Monday, Oct. 1 Kansas City 8, Oakland 4 Buffalo at Kansas City, 9 p.m. 




DOMINO'S PIZZA APPRECITATES YOUR BUSINESS N.D./S.M.C. SO WE ARE OFFERING YOU THIS INCREDIBLE DEAL DON'T MISS OUT! CALL NOW! 
THIS WEEK ONLY I.ARGE PIZZA ONLY $3 • 99 
• 

ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS ONLY 95~ EACH (At this price you can load it up!) 
WE HAVE EXTENDED OUR HOURS TO INCLUDE LUNCH!! SUN-THU 11am-2am FRI-SAT 11am-3am 
NOTRE SAINT
-----------
-----------..I DAME MARY'S 
271-0300 289-0033
CHEESE SPECIAL LUNCH FOR ONE I 
$3.99 $3.99 I 
Get a large cheese pizza Get a small one topper 
I I I I NOBODYfor only $3.99. Additional 1 and one serving of Coke toppings are only 95e each.l for only $3.99.(11am-3pm)
I I KNOWS
OFFER EXPIRES: 10/6/91 I OFFER EXPIRES: 10/6/91 
I I I I LIKE 
I 

I II~ i I I DOMINO'S. 
...., " DI"O{'(IIIonq \!"'" ""'v 'to! .,., '"'"' ..., ~ riff• I'Poc:n""" ..-. C..,.on¥< ·~ fl NrtoroM"'Q ~ only ~ •lloiJ '""" "'Ofhf< ~ lln{n ~ vlf't l.u"IJfT'O' 
lioNYou Uke Pizza At Home.
I I I
1111"" \liP' ••• 1"11 ~· ...... IIIIII'Citllr ~,..".........,,._.'lilr ~ ()IW\ ~ ••• 1"11 otPO!J'\If-,.._,. ~""_..,to~ ....~ 'lu• 1 ...... ~ ....... ''" ...... 11000 Ou• jl....~ ,.. -.or Df"lllllflll .. "' ~~ 1u< d•-" CI''V ~~ '""' 1.7000 r)uo 1<¥" l'f '101 Of"'III/M 'Of 'llf ~,,..,
I I_ I 


Tuesday, October 1, 1991 The Observer 
page 17 
Former Auburn players retract charges of illegal payment 
AUBURN, Ala. (AP} -A former Auburn football player who reportedly said he received illegal payments during his col­lege career now is backing away from )lis allegations. 
Meanwhile, another ex-player who claims to have secretly recorded tapes backing up his claims of wrongdoing in the Auburn football program has hired a prominent Alabama at­torney to represent him in any investigations. 
Eric Ramsey and Alex Strong were quoted last week in The Montgomery Advertiser as say­ing Auburn coaches and alumni gave them money and other and that he got a "couple of thousand a year" through the school's longtime recruiting coordinator, Frank Young. 
But Strong now insists that he had no knowledge of any such activity and said his comments were printed out of context. He also said he hopes to distance himself from Ramsey's allegations. 
"I said things in a general way that carne out looking like I said things about Auburn," Strong told the Birmingham Post­Herald in a story published Monday. ''I'm not denying the quotes weren't accurate. Some of those things I said, but it was it quiet. Many of the guys knew it. It wasn't any secret." 
Strong said he drove to Auburn early Sunday from his Macon, Ga.• horne to meet with coach Pat Dye and "straighten out" some of the things at­tributed to him in news reports. 
"I was speaking about any college,:· Strong said: "I was speaking in general terms of rules being violated all over the country." 
Strong said he had never re­ceived any illegal benefits or payments from Auburn coaches or alumni. He also denied he had been pressured by anyone connected with Auburn to make a bed of roses, and I'm not trying to make Eric look bad. I'm not out to hurt anybody. 
"Alex Strong deeply regrets that he got involved in this sit­uation." 
Ramsey has hired attorney Donald Watkins, whose clients include Birmingham Mayor Richard Arrington and other prominent public officials. 
"We anticipate that there will be various investigations into the matters Mr. Ramsey made public and I will try to guide him through those matters and those investigations as best I can," Watkins said Monday. 
Ramsey, a former defensive $11,400. 
Dye is on Colonial's board of 
directors and the bank's 
chairman, Bobby Lowder, is a 
powerful member of the 
Auburn board of trustees. 
Ramsey said his allegations 
are supported by secretly 
recorded tape conversations 
with Dye, Young, assistant 
coach Steve Dennis, former as­
sistant coach Larry Blakeney 
and Auburn alumnus Bill Frost 
of Ulburn, Ga. 
"Mr. Ramsey turned over the material in both written and tape form and I'm involved in ~the process of going through that now," Watkins said. "It will 
benefits in violation of NCAA used out of context." his latest comments. back, has said he received probably take about a week to rules. He was quoted in the ''I'm coming back and telling money and benefits in excess of go through his materials." 
Strong, a fullback from 1985-Montgomery newspaper as my version of the story because what is allowed by NCAA rules, Watkins said he planned to 89, said in the story that pay­saying: "They'll tell you when this is how I really feel." he including an unsecured loan eventually make the tapes pub­ments to players were common they give you something to keep said. ''I'm not trying to look like from Coloni;~.l Bank for nearly._..::li::.;;:c;:...----------. 

It's not justanotherwayfor you
to spendyour money. It's awayto help you save it. 
Use your certificates to visit friends at other a college budget. This year alone, Student
Now, get the Card and get 
schools, see your family back home or enjoy Cardmembers have saved at Pizzeria Uno,Stu?ent Privileg~s. Special yourself during a vacation. And the best part: Eddie Bauer, MTV and ArtCarved class rings, savtngs created JUSt for you. Each certificate could save you as much as among others. 
$250 over regular ContinentalAirlinesfares You'll find your certificates in each issue of
Only from American Express. 
on a coast-to-coast trip. our exclusive student magazine, American Ifyou think the American Express® Card is Express® Card CONNECTIONS-where you'll simply another way to buy things, weCllike OUR NEWEST ADVANTAGE: UP TO also find valuable ideas and information 
to share some valuable news with you: Since 30 MINUTEs-· OF FREE MCI LONG-DISTANCE about college life today. you're a student, the Card can actually help CALLING EVERYMONTH FORA YEAR you save. AGOOD INVESTMENT, AGREAT VAWE 
Become a Student Cardmember today, and Talk about value. Now the 
Card can you'll automatically get American Express® also help you save on your long­For just SSS a year, the Card gives you all Student Privileges,.. our newly expanded distance calls. In total, you these savings, as well as all the traditional package of outstanding savings and special could save more than $44 benefits of Cardmembership-like offers. All designed just for you-with more when you enroll and use the personal attention you can get of what you need, for more value from the the American Express 24 hours a day from our Customer money you spend. Card as a calling card. Service representatives. 
And you don't even have to And because you settle your account in change your current long· full each month, you won't pay any finance __distance company. &Y.K charges-which can save you even more. All of which goes to show that the PLUS, SAVINGS ON CLOTHES, FOOD, American Express Card is an exceptional MUSIC ... AND MORE value. Because while there are many ways for you to spend your Student Privileges Value Certificates give money, there are few you the savings you need on the things that help you save it.
3 ROUNDTRIPS ON 
you wmzt-a sure way to make the most of Apply today.
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES-AT APRICE THAT REALLY MAKES FLYING AFFORDABLE 
Only Student Cardmembers can enjoy this great deal on Continental Airlines: three roundtrip flights for just $129 or $189 
•To be eligible, you must be approved by December 31, 1991. 
.. Acredit of up to J3.70 for calls will~ on e2ch hillirl8 statement
each-depending on where you're going.• 
for 12 months after enrollment. J3.70 is equal to the ctwgcs for aWhat's more, these certificates are good any­domestic 30·minute night/weekend MCI card ~ibility call and appropriate surchaQ!eS. 'tbu must enroll for this service by
where Continental Airlines flies in the 48 
December 31. 1991. contiguous states. Q 1991 A~ican Ex~· 'Tra~ Rrlattd Services Compa"!(lnc. 
Get the Card today. Calll-800-942-AMEX. 

....................................................................................... =·-----·-.... ····· 
. 1) 

) 
page 18 
Harris goes to Green Bay for two high draft picks 
SANTA CLARA. Calif. (AP) ­Tim Harris was traded Monday from Green Bay to the San Francisco 49ers, who gave the Packers two high draft picks for the holdout linebacker. 
It 
II 
San Francisco coach George Seifert said the 49ers gave up 
their second-round pick in 1992 and either a second-or third­round pick in 1993, based on certain conditions that he de­clined to disclose. 
The conditions reportedly re­volve around Harris' playing time and a rare "good citizen­ship" clause that essentially re­quire him to stay out of trouble. 
The 49ers sought a two-week
I 
roster exemption for Harris, 

l l l 
who hasn't played since last season. However, Seifert said Harris could be activated for the Oct. 13 game. against the Atlanta Falcons. San Francisco
l is idle on Sunday. 
l 
Harris, 27, made $630,000
) 
last season, including bonuses. He reportedly is to receive $725,000 for the rest of this season and $825,000 in 1992. 
That's slightly less than the Packers' final offer, but Harris was willing to accept it because he said he had become alien­ated with Green Bay's man­agement. 
"It was a matter of principal," he said. "It was a hard ordeal but I've fmally got a job again. It's like I'm a newborn kid again." 
"We reached a point where we felt we had to do something with Tim," Packers president Bob Harlan said from Green Bay. 
"He wanted to leave Green Bay. And if you saw the offers on the table, the offer that we put on the table several weeks ago and what Tim actually took, you would think the offer was more than adequate that came out of Green Bay. 
"We certainly didn't want to get rid of Tim. We wouldn't have pursued him as long as we l did and kept the negotiations I going as long as we did if we j didn't feel we would get him in. This was obviously the best deal 
j 
we could come up with." Seifert said he envisioned
if ­
Harris playing on passing
j 
downs to increase the 49ers' ability to pressure opposing quarterbacks. Harris, a five-
I 
MiCHAEL
j 
v 
DOUGLAS 
An American Cop In Japan. Their country. Their laws.Their game.
J 
His rules. 

Cinema at the Snlte 
'I TUESDAY 9:15
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
year veteran, has 54 1/2 career sacks and will be used opposite Charles Haley, who has 56 1/2 sacks in that same span. 
Haley's effectiveness has been reduced because opposing teams have been able to double-and triple-team him. 
"It gives us a kind of double­edged sword," Seifert said. ..Hopefully, this has some effect. Obviously, that's how we're going into it, with that idea." 
Harris, who dropped from 19 1/2 sacks in 1989 to 7 last sea­son, said he's glad to be back in uniform and looks forward to a fresh start with the 49ers, who have told him to tone down his showboat image. 
With the Packers, Harris was known for wearing pistol­shaped gloves and mocking op­ponents after a sack. 
"When I was in Green Bay, I was told to play a certain way, to perform a certain way to en­thuse a lot of people and get everybody fired up," Harris said. "I don't think that's nec­essary here. I left my guns in Green Bay, along with the hay silos and the cows. Don't get me wrong. I'm not knocking the people of Green Bay. It's just 
that's behind me now." 
The Observer Tuesday, October 1, 1991 
UNLV's Augmon signed by Hawks 
Veteran Moncrief doomed with defensive star's arrival 
ATlANTA (AP) -The start of Stacey Augmon's NBA career has apparently signaled the end of Sidney Moncriers. 
Augmon, the defensive stand­out on UNLV's recent collegiate powerhouses, became the high­est-drafted player this year to sign when he agreed to a 5-year deal with the Atlanta Hawks on Sunday. 
The Hawks had to make room under the salary cap for the No. 
SPOAlSBRIEFS 

9 overall selection last June and they renounced the rights to Moncrief, the guard they had coaxed out of retirement last season for his leadership. 
Augrnon 's deal is worth a re­ported $6.5 million to $7 mil­lion. 
He is expected to see time at both shooting guard and as a back-up to Dominique Wilkins at small forward. 
Augmon had a .555 career 
•The 
Observer accepts sportsbriefs in writing every day until 5:00 p.m. Please submit your brief, your name, and the date the brief is to be run. 

•Public 
skating is now open at the J.A.C.C. Admission for ND/SMC students is $1. Schedules are available there. Free skate for students, faculty and staff is 12 to 1 p.m. Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. 

•WVFI 
Sportstalk welcomes members of the women's volleyball team to the studio from 8-9 


p.m. tonight. Call 239-6400 to talk to the players or just sports in general. 
The difference 
between a job and a career is the company you l~eep. 
MAY MAY MAY MAY MAY MAY 
MAY can make the fliffercncc 
Plcast' join us for a Business Presentation and Reception ho.,lt>cl hy Anthony j. Tm•(•usio President of 
L. S. Ayrt•s on Tuesday, October l, 1991 
Center of Continuin~ Education Lowt~r Lt·H~I 
6:00-8:00 p.m. 
The May Depurtmf'nl Stor••s Company 
•Saint 
Mary's varsity tennis team will begin tryouts Sunday, October 6 from 4-6 p.m. at Angela Athletic facility. 

•Irish 
Insanity will meet in the Dooley Room (1st floor LaFortune) tonight at 8:30 p.m. Members are strongly encouraged to attend. All are welcome. 

•Ski 
team /club will hold its second meeting this Thursday, October 3 at 8:30 in 118 Nieuwland. A $100 deposit will be taken from the first 90 people. Bring your checkbook. Questions, call Chris or Bob at 277-7089. 


shooting percentage and played in two Final Fours with UNLV, winning the national champi­onship in 1990. Some observers criticized his shooting ability under pressure. 
··reople who say shooting is my weakness are wrong," Augmon said...But there are also other things I like to do on a basketball court. It's a team game." 

••tt.• 


Tuesday, October 1, 1991 The Observer 
page 19 
Braves keep in the hunt for National League West crown 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The 
Atlanta Braves reached a cou­
ple of milestones Monday night 
and stayed within reach of the 
prize they most want -first 
place in the NL West. 
John Smoltz overcame control problems to pitch two-hit ball over eight innings and Sid Bream singled home a pair of runs in a four-run third inning for a 4-0 victory over Cincinnati. The Braves' fourth consecutive win moved them a half-game behind Los Angeles, which played at home against San Diego later Monday. 
Pirates 6, Mets 5 

PITTSBURGH -Jay Bell hit his first career grand slam in a six-run second inning that car­ried Pittsburgh past New York. It was the Mets' second game under interim manager Mike Cubbage, who took over when Bud Harrelson was fired. 
Howard Johnson extended his NL home run lead with his 38th. 
Cardinals 11, Expos 1 
ST. LOUIS -Mark Clark pitched 5 1-3 innings of score­less relief for his first major­league victory and Felix Jose drove in four runs as St. Louis clinched second place in the East. 
Geronimo Pena had three hits 
and scored three runs, and 
Pedro Guerrero added three 
hits and two RBis for St. Louis. 
The second-place finish is the 
highest for St. Louis since 198 7, 
when the Cardinals won the 
division. 
Phlllies 6, Cubs 5 

PHILADELPHIA -Wally Backman's sacrifice fly capped a three-run ninth inning rally for Philadelphia. 
Chicago took a 5-3 lead in the top of the ninth on Doug Dascenzo's sacrifice fly off Mitch Williams and Andre Dawson's RBI single. In the bottom of the inning, the Phillies came back off Paul Assenmacher (7-7) on RBI sin­gles by Wes Chamberlain and Jim Lindeman before Backman's game-winning fly ball. 
American League Red Sox 9, Brewers 8 
MILWAUKEE Boston wasted a 6-0 lead, then came back Monday night as Jack Clark's two-run homer and Tom Brunansky's RBI double sparked a seventh-inning rally and a 9-8 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
The Red Sox, who ended a four-game losing streak, closed within 3 1/2 games of AL East­leading Toronto, which lost to California 2-1. 
Milwaukee went ahead 7-6 with four runs in the third and Greg Vaughn's three-run homer in the fifth. Clark struck back with a homer off rookie Mike Ignasiak (1-1) and Brunansky 
doubled in another run  off  
Chuck Crim.  
Dennis  Lamp  (6-3}  let  

Milwaukee close within a run in the bottom of the inning, but Tony Fossas and Dan Petry held off the Brewers, with Petry getting his first career save. 
Angels 2, Blue Jays 1 

TORONTO -Dave Winfield hit a two-run double in the eighth, and Mark Langston and Bryan Harvey combined on a three-hitter. 
Langston (18-8) struck out six and walked three in 7 1-3 innings and Harvey finished with perfect relief for his league-leading 45th save. 
Jimmy Key (16-12) allowed six hits in 7 1-3 innings. 
The crowd of 50,321 raised Toronto's total to 3,900,880, breaking the major league record the Blue Jays set last year (3,885,284) 
Mariners 3, Rangers 2 
ARLINGTON, Texas-Nolan 
Ryan reached the 5,500-strike­
out mark in the doubleheader 
opener with six in six innings, 
and Ken Griffey Jr. became the 
youngest player to drive in 100 
runs since AI Kaline did it for 
Detroit in 1956. 
Seattle won its club-record 79th game as Jay Bohner homered in the 11th otT Wayne Rosenthal (1-4). Mike Schooler (3-3) pitched two innings of hitless relief and Bill Swift pitched the 11th for his 16th save. 
Tigers 8, Orioles 3 

DETROIT -Pete Incaviglia, Mickey Tettleton and Lou Whitaker hit two-run homers as Detroit closed its home season with a six-hitter by Mark Leiter (9-6), the frrst complete game of his career. 
The 11,824 fans gave a standing ovation in the seventh to Ernie Harwell, beginning his final three innings on the radio from Tiger Stadium. Harwell's career in Detroit is being ended after 32 years by the team and radio station W JR. 
Yankees 3, Indians 0 
CLEVELAND Scott 
Sanderson (16-1 0) became the 
Yankees' first 16-game winner 
since Rick Rhoden in 1987, but 
was forced from the game when 
Ed Taubensee 's line drive 
dislocated a fmger. 
It was the 17th shutout of the 
season against the Indians and 
their major league-leading 
101st loss. 
Randy Velarde hit a two-run single in the sixth off Charles Nagy (10-14}, who pitched a seven-hitter. 
Twins 8, White Sox 3 
CHICAGO -Randy Bush, Pedro Munoz and Paul Sorrento homered for the AL West champions, and Tom Edens (2­
2) allowed one run and five hits in six innings. 
Alex Fernandez (9-13) gave up four runs and four hits in four innings. 
Royals 8, Athletics 4 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Mark Davis (6-2) allowed two hits in six shutout innings and Kurt Stillwell hit a three-run double in a six-run second. 
Bob Welch (12-13) was pounded for six runs and six hits in two innings. 
Campus Ministry 
~­

0M~S .d . 
MINisTRY •••cons1 erat1ons 
Picking our "Shoulds" 
When I was a student at Notre Dame, every girl I knew had It Is no secret that some minority cultures here at Notre Dame 
long straight hair, and if she hadn't, she used a lot of chemicals and an ironing board to make it so. All the guys who hit the hardcourt wore Converse Jack Taylors on their feet and had headbands on their foreheads to keep the long hair out of their eyes. 
These days beautiful girls "crimp" their hair to get lots of little corkscrew curls hanging down everywhere and guys have crewcuts on the top and Nike and Reeboks down on the bottom. Sometimes dresses are supposed to be long. Some years they are short. Sometimes pants are tight; some years they are baggy. Behold the dictates of fashion. See how most all of us do what we assume we're supposed to do. 
These weekends it seems like every dorm on campus is having an SYR or a Formal and every guy is walking around with a long-stemmed red rose wrapped up in a thin green paper. Later this semester we are all supposed to build floats for a Homecoming Parade and applaud when they announce some people have been chosen King and Queen of the weekend. (I wonder what criteria will be used to pick that royal couple ...) 
Sometimes at Notre Dame my fear is that we are all not very free, and that we spend a lot of time and energy doing what we perceive we must fit in and follow the "shoulds" of our common life. 
We are subservient to a very strong campus culture here. The dorms are supposed to have a certain kind of spirit. The weekends should have a certain amount of beer. The Spring Break should have a certain kind of escapade. Every dorm should have a certain kind of Sunday liturgy. So much is supposed to be the same. 
Maybe one reason some of us hang so tightly together is that we are just a bit Insecure, and so we resent or reject that which Is foreign or unusual to us. 
have had difficulty feeling at ease in this land of plaid pants and tailgaters. And when of late this discomfort has been spoken forcefully, for many In the student body the common response has been to say "let them adjust-stop complaining -get with the program." 
Somehow that doesn't seem adequate. In a place with such a strong sense of "should," where everybody knows "how to do things," there seems to be even more need to be consciously open to new values, new insights, and new cultures and ways of life. 
It is important for all of us to become freer and more peaceful in our own choices, by becoming more open to the gifts of others. 
This week Notre Dame celebrates its annual Multi-Cultural Festival, with dances, speeches, food, and prayer on the Quads, at the Fieldhouse Mall, and in Stepan Center. Native Americans, African Americans, Filipino Americans and many other groups will present examples of their rich backgrounds. I think all of us "should" go out of our way to learn from this moment of obvious blessings and "should" join in celebrating the growing diversity of our campus culture. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 
5:00 pm Saturday  Rev. John Pearson, C.S.C.  
10:00 am Sunday  Rev. Terrence Unton, C.S.C.,  
11:45 am Sunday  Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C.  

MULTI-CULTURAL PRAISE OF GOD 
SUNDAY AT 2:00pm 
between Lyons, Morrissey, and Howard Halls. 
.. 
tl 

I 
I 
~ 
~ 
~ ~' 
~ 
) 
ll) I 

I 
lj'· 
\.'l 
1 j 
.l 
!) 
i~ 

I 
I 
l j . 
/ 
I 
: j 
~ i 
~ ) 
I 
i 1! 
1 
L IIiI 
;"' 
ll 
(nI Ji 
lJ 
I 

page 20 The Observer Tuesday, October 1, 1991 
Moeller ready for Iowa after annihilation by 'Noles 

ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) ­The dreams are put away now. Carefully wrapped and protected. Like a favorite Christmas ornament. They'll be hauled out again, maybe in about a year. 
But for now, life moves on for Michigan coach Gary Moeller and his football team. 
The Wolverines were picked by many to win the national championship this season. It would be their first since 1948. But those hopes were dashed on Saturday when No. 1 Florida State crushed the then-No. 3 Wolverines 51-31. 
When this week's Associated Press poll came out, the Wolverines had dropped to No. 
7. And they'll have to work hard just to hold that. Michigan visits No. 9 Iowa this week. It's always hard to win in Iowa City. 
Moeller, at his weekly news conference Monday, was asked about the national champi-
Unrestricted free agency looms on NFL horiz·on 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -NFL players scored another victory in their quest for unrestricted free agency when a federal judge ruled on Monday that most players covered by Plan B free agency from Feb. 1, 1989, to Nov. 6, 1989, can pursue antitrust damages against the league and its clubs. 
"This is terrific news for the players, particularly those who were protected free agents in 1989," Dick Berthelsen, the National Football League Players Association's general counsel, said in a statement. 
NFL players already could sue for damages for the 1990 and 1991 seasons. Green Bay's Don Majkowski filed a claim last year and Marcus Allen of the Los Angeles Raiders and Gil Byrd of San Diego nled claims this year. 
Also Monday, U.S. District Judge David Doty denied an NFL motion to dismiss the players' claim that the league had abused its monopoly power in its dealings with them. 
Doty wrote that there was sufficient evidence for a jury to decide whether NFL clubs "had a tacit agreement, understanding or conspiracy to refrain from bidding on players." 
The rulings are the latest in a series of decisions by Doty stemming from the NFLPA's unsuccessful 24-day 1987 strike. The NFL and its players have been without a labor agreement since 1987, when their 1982 agreement ran out. 
On Nov. 1, 1989, the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals granted an antitrust exemption to the NFL so long as the players were represented by a union. Five days later the NFLPA decertified. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said "There are aspects of Judge Doty's ruling that appear to be inconsistent with the Eighth Circuit's 1989 decision. Our attorneys are evaluating the case to determine our next step." 
Ineligible 
continued from page 24 
possibility for a playoff birth. Dillon appeared to be out of the playoff picture after suffering their second straight loss last weekend, but now find themselves in third place, only one game behind first place Flanner. 
onship. He knew he would be asked. But he still didn't have the answer quite worked out. 
It was obviously still a painful subject. 
"It hurts everybody to some extent, your players and every­thing," Moeller said. "But I can honestly say that I'm not ... " 
And his voice trailed off. He paused. 
You could almost hear the gears mashing in his mind. He wanted to say the right thing. But he also wanted to be hon­est. That's his nature. 
"It's something that everybody wants to do," Moeller said. "It isn't something like I had in my pocket and it was taken away from me. Believe me. But the opportunity was there. 
"And I still honestly believe that the most important thing to us is the conference champi­onship and going to the Rose Bowl. And that's more impor­tant." 
Races 
continued from page 24 
Minnesota's improvement stems from the maturation of Scott Erickson and Kevin Tapani into two future stars in the league, and the resurgence of Jack Morris. One of the few free agent signings which did not backfire (see Red Sox and Matt Young), Morris has come through with an 18-12, 3.50 ERA season as well as being a stabilizing force for youngsters Erickson and Tapani. 
It was fashionable at the beginning of the season to pick the Cubs to win the NL East this season. The signing of George 
Gary Moeller 
Moeller explained that be­cause the defeat came so early in the season, he can afford to let his players dwell on it. They can't think of it as a national championship lost. 
It was one game. It was lost. So the players must think of it only as one game lost, not a na­tional championship lost. 
"Because I know one thing 
Bell bolstered an already awesome offense, while free agent pickups Danny Jackson and Dave Smith were going to strengthen the Cub pitching staff. 
Injuries, however, decimated Chicago, as Jackson, Rick Sutcliffe and Smith have been on and off the disabled list all season, and Mike Harkey has been out all season. 
The Pirates have survived a down year from Doug Drabek (15-13, 3.13 ERA), last season's Cy Young winner, with strong perfomances by Zane Smith (16-10, 3.04) and Cy hopeful John Smiley (18-8, 3.25) and their bullpen by committee 

FROM "DIXIE" To TIFFANY 

.rE§c;lf.r c;lf-9 .rdi-2J!!! Happy 21st • Love, Mom & Dad 

RACQUETBALL SINGLES IHMEN IHWOMEN GRAD/FACMEN GRAD/FAC WOMEN 
CO-REC INNER TUBE WATERPOLO 
CAMPUS ULTIMATE FRISBEE 
DEADLINE -OCTOBER 2 
about national championships, and all those things don't mean anything until you get close to the end of the. year," Moeller said. "And I know every game that you win becomes more im­portant to take you in that di­rection. But those things change so rapidly towards the end. 
"And I think, realistically, there's too much emphasis put on a national championship. I think it helps draw people to television sets and all those things. But, you know, there can only be one winner in that thing. And there's a lot of great kids that are out there playing football that are winners. 
"And there's some kids that don't even get an opportunity, · because of where they're at, to ever win a national champi­onship. So sometimes we over­estimate that. And I'm not just saying that because this is after a loss o:r anything. It's just the way I feel." 
(league-leading 4 7 saves) handled masterfully by manager Jim Leyland. 
Finally, in the NL West, Cincinnati also fell victim to the injury bug. Ace Jose Rijo was out for a month, costing it dearly; Rijo is among the league leaders in wins, ERA, and strikeouts. 
At the same time, Rob Dibble and Norm Charlton both drew suspensions from NL President Bill White, and subpar performances from Tom Browning (14-12, 4.23 ERA) and 1990 All-Star game starter Jack Armstrong (7-12, 5.16 ERA) have doomed the Reds to fourth. 
Moeller said his players are feeling rather sad about the de­feat. Especially quarterback Elvis Grbac, who was ripped by a Detroit columnist who called him an ..Achilles' heel" in Monday's editions. 
"I don't think Elvis will be that down," Moeller said. "He made a couple throws-I didn't like. But he made a lot of good decisions, too." 
Grbac completed 19 of 32 passes for 212 yards and four touchdowns, but had three in­terceptions against Florida State. 
"We're down mentally right now, but we're supposed to be down right now," Moeller said. "I think the key is to get over our bumps and bruises and not let it keep us down. 
"But we're not going to be feeling sorry for ourselves. We're going to be ready when we get to Iowa on Saturday." 
And why are Los Angeles and Atlanta battling it out for the West title? The Dodgers lead the league in ERA (3.10), while the Braves are third (3.50). Enough said. 
Sure, pitching isn't everything. California has three 15-game winners and the league's best closer and are still dead last in the AL West, and Detroit hung in the AL East race longer than anyone would have predicted with Cecil and Co. crushing over 200 homers. 
But as this year's four divisional winners would attest, good pitching in the end does beat good hitting. 
Cliff Erickson at Alumni-Senior Club October 2,3,4  
THE PROBLEM: BLURRY VISION THE SOLUTION: PROFESSIONAL VISION * Eye exams and complete vision care * Same day service on most prescriptions * Conveniently located near campus 200/o Discount on materials to students and faculty ---:m_ -­Professional Vision Dr. Ronald Snyder and Associates 2n-1151 VISA Mastercard 1635 N.lronwood and Discover accepted North of McDonalds  


Tuesday.~ober21, 1991 The Observer page 21 
Gottfried fired over differences 
Disagreements with Pitt hierarchy led to dismissal 
PITTSBURGH (AP} Former football coach Mike Gottfried was fired in 1989 because of his differences with university academicians, not for failing to cater to now­retired president Wesley Posvar, University of Pittsburgh officials said Monday. 
Assistant athletic director Larry Eldridge responded to an article in College and Pro Football Newsweekly which said Gottfried was ousted for failing to appease Posvar or attend the president's social functions. 
"Mike Gottfried's firing had a whole lot to do with significant philosophical differences over academic responsibility in the football program and nothing whatsoever to do with whether or not he attended postgame functions at the president's house, or other similarly frivolous charges," Eldridge 

THE FIRST AMENDMENT Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment or religion, o1 prohibiting the tree exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press; or the right of the people peacably to assemble, and to petition the government tor a redress of grievances. CENSORSHIP IS UNAMERICAN 

PROCTER & GAMBLE 
Mike Gottfried 
said. 

"The fact is, Mike himself was greatly distressed about the heightened academic scrutiny of the football pro­gram and feared that the direction the university's academic officials were moving in would not permit him to be competitive," he added. 
On Dec. 15, 1989, the day before Gottfried was told to re­sign or be fired, Pitt passed tougher academic guidelines requiring recruits to score 750 on the Scholastic Aptitude Test and achieve a 2.3 grade point average. The NCAA requires incoming freshmen to score at least 700 and achieve a 2.0. 
Gottfried was uncomfortable that fall about the impending changes and privately talked to some Pitt officials about leaving the school, Eldridge said. Gottfried was a candidate for the Kentucky job after leaving Pitt, but the school instead hired Bill Curry. 
Pitt officials said Posvar made the decision to fire Gottfried, a message that was conveyed to the coach by former athletic director Ed Bozik. Pitt waited four days before publicly confirming Gottfried would not return. He was replaced by Paul Hackett, who made his debut later that month in Pitt's Sun Bowl vic­tory over Texas A&M. 
San Francisco stumbles to 2-3 start; worst since 1982 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. (AP) ­Joe Montana, forced to be an armchair quarterback the past five weeks while resting a torn right elbow tendon, passed his first major test toward a comeback on Monday. 
But there's still no definite word on when he'll be able to play again for the San Francisco 49ers (2-3}, who without him have sputtered to their worst start since the strike-shortened 1982 season. 
Montana, 35, threw 40 passes of about 15 yards to condition­ing coach Jerry Attaway as coach George Seifert and team physician Dr. Michael Dillingham watched. The media was barred from the 10-minute workout. 
"We've taken a major step, obviously," Seifert said later at a news conference. "I'm en­couraged. I thought he looked fine. I don't think any one thing dictates that this (comeback} is a done deal. ... The key will be how he feels over a period of 
. ..
time. 

The 49ers' offensive produc­tion has been spotty in the ab­sence of Montana, a 10-year starter who has been on injured 



RECRUITING 
The people of Procter & Gamble present an overview of our Finance organization and employment opportunities within it. 
We want you to learn more about us so we can Jearn more about you. 
INFORMATION PRESENTATION TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1991 UPPER LOUNGE,UNIVERSI1Y CLUB 7:00-9:00PM 
CASUAL DRESS APPROPRIATE 
INTERVIEW DATES 
OCTOBER 2 & 3, 1991 
reserve since the start of the 
season. 
Though Steve Young leads the 
NFC in passing, the 49ers have 
scored just 95 points this year 
compared to 127 last season, 
when they raced to a 5-0 start. 
The 49ers have 17 drives this 
season inside the opponents' 
20-yard line but have finished 
only five for touchdowns. 
"It's a little redundant but it's 
a fact: We've had too many 
errors," Seifert said. "We 
haven't been scoring when 
we've been in the red zone. It's 
been obvious to you as well as 
to us. 
"It's difficult to say that it's 
any one thing. I don't think it's 
any one player. I don't think it's 
the offensive line. I don't think 
it's the quarterback, the wide 
receivers or the coaches. It's a 
combination of all those 
things." 
The 49ers moved Monday to 
bolster the defense, acquiring 
pass rushing linebacker Tim 
Harris from Green Bay for a 
couple of draft choices. 
Offensive problems remain 
for the 49ers, who have a bye 
before playing the Atlanta 
Falcons on Oct. 13. 
In Sunday's 12-6 loss to the 
Los Angeles Raiders, the 49ers 
failed to score a touchdown for 
the first time since Oct. 1, 1989, 
when the Los Angeles Rams 
beat San Francisco 13-12. 
Young threw two intercep­
tions, doubling his season total, 
and nearly got Jerry Rice killed 
when the wide receiver leaped 
for an overthrown pass and was 
turned head over heels on a hit 
by Terry McDaniel. 
The 49ers also were thwarted 
by a Raiders' goal-line stand 
and a couple of key penalties. 
They had a chance to win 
when Young drove the team 
from its own 26 to the Raiders' 
19. But he then had three in­completions sandwiched around a run as the 49ers lost the ball -and their final chance -on downs. 
"Obviously, Steve's played better. We've all played better," Seifert said. 
Montana, whose relations with Young have been strained, was diplomatic when asked about the offense's productivity. 
"It's hard to second-guess," he said. "I can't point at any one thing that could make a difference at this point. I don't think I'm the savior at this point by any means. I don't think, if I come back, that we're going to win forever." 
Montana hasn't played since an Aug. 3 exhibition against Chicago at Berlin. He last threw a football on Aug. 13 and briefly before an Aug. 19 exhi­bition, stopping both times be­cause of pain. 
"There was a little bit of tightness but no soreness at all," a relieved Montana said after Monday's test. "I was anxious to get it done, to test it for my own self because the last two times ... it went right back to where it was before. So hopefully the four or five weeks of rest will help it because the alternative is not something I want to get into." 
If the rehabilitation program fails and the injury becomes aggravated, Montana faces season-ending surgery to repair the tendon. 
Chances are such an opera­tion would be successful, but there is no guarantee, Dillingham has said. 
However, Montana said he foresees no problem and plans to steadily increase his throw­ing workouts over the coming days. 


I ; 
f" I ! I-
l . 
l 
-:<
)r
' ! l 
II 
' 
) 
)
I 
i 
~q 
I 
' 
it I 
I,I 
li 
! i I';J ; 
~J;
;
, I ~ ! 
J ;
,J 
f !' t 
> 
i I I 
I 
i 
t 
I'( ~­
I, 
' 
' J I 
',t 
, r 
I: 
111'J 
• 
page 22 The Observer Tuesda~~ober1, 1991 
White reunites Charlton with Cincinnati for Braves series 
-CINCINNATI (AP)-National League president Bill White put three days of Norm Charlton's suspension on hold Monday, reuniting Cincinnati's Nasty Boys for a three-game series against the Atlanta Braves. 
Charlton began serving a one­week suspension Sunday for purposely throwing at Los An­geles' Mike Scioscia. But White decided Charlton should be ac­tivated against Atlanta, which started the series one game be­hind the Dodgers in the NL West. 
That left the Reds with their three best relievers: Charlton, Randy Myers and Rob Dibble. 
"With the close pennant race in the Western Division, it is 
Alvarez leads 
Badgers into Big 
Ten schedule 
MADISON, Wis. (AP) -The preliminaries are over for the Wisconsin Badgers. They've won their first three games, but now it's time to face the big boys of the Big Ten. 
"We're all smart enough to 
-know that we're going to have to improve a great deal this week and going into the Big Ten season," Coach Barry Alvarez said Monday, looking forward to Saturday's league opener at Ohio State. "We'll play one of the better football teams in the nation." Wisconsin has beaten Western Illinois, Iowa State and Eastern Michigan for its first 3­0 start since 1985. No. 14 Ohio State took last week off but is also 3-0 after victories over Arizona, Louisville and Washington State, a much tougher pre­league schedule than the Badgers faced. Of special concern to Alvarez is the Buckeyes' running game, even though Wisconsin's defense has given up only 25 points all season. Ohio State's Butler By'not'e is averaging 109 yards rushing per game. 
"I don't know if there is a better stable of backs anywhere in the country," said Alvarez. "I don't know where they are ranked but this is a team that can play with anybody and this will be quite a challenge for our young football team." 
Also attending Alvarez's weekly Monday news confer­ence was safety Scott Nelson, who sustained a neck injury in last week's 21-6 win over Eastern Michigan. 
Nelson suffered a bruised spinal cord after colliding with Eastern Michigan's Eddie Nwagbaraocha. Nelson, who lay motionless on the field for 20 minutes before he was taken off in an ambulance, spent Saturday night in the hospital. 
Nelson said Monday, however, his injury was not serious and that he might be available Saturday. 
"Things are feeling a little bit better today, but I still can't move real quick," said Nelson. ..I tried to work on a little range of motion but I don't have hardly any right now. But it's just a matter of time before things get back to normal." 
Alvarez said cornerback Troy Vmcent, the team's top return specialist, should be ready Saturday. Vincent suffered a hip pointer and missed most of the second half of the Eastern Michigan game. 
imperative that all teams play with their full complement of players in order to guarantee that the competition is fair and balanced," White said. 
Braves manager Bobby Cox saw it as another reason for changing the major leagues' system of dealing with suspen­sions. 
..It's not right," Cox said. "There has to be a system in baseball where this doesn't happen. Give them a 24-hour appeal and get on with it. This way, you can pick your spots." 
Charlton was suspended after admitting he hit Scioscia with a pitch Sept. 9 for stealing signs, and threatening to hurt him again the next time he faced 

~ 

~ 

~ 
X 
him. White handed down the against LA. I drop the appeal, suspension one week later at and he makes me play (against the start of a two-game series Atlanta). I don't understand." in Los Angeles. Charlton will go back on sus­
Charlton appealed, putting pension once the Braves' series the suspension on hold. He ends. Cincinnati closes its sea­dropped his appeal Sunday with son with three games in San one week left in the season so Diego. Charlton hopes he isn't the penalty wouldn't carry over forced to serve the remainder of to next season. 
The reliever was stunned 
Belles volleyball go·es 2-1
when informed White had re­instated him for the Atlanta series. 
in weekend tournament
"I don't really understand it," 
he said. "There's this thing 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
called the integrity of the game 
Sports Writer 

that Pete Rose got kicked out for. They said Pete Rose might The Saint Mary's volleyball 
ruin the integrity of the game. 
team ( 6-12) finished ruth out 
Yet Bill White suspends me of nine teams in the Wheaton 
College tournament "this 
weekend. In Saint Mary's first game against Grace College, the 
SPCII'ISSHORTS 
Former Auburn hoopster sentenced 

Belles were down 10-2 in the first game before making a comeback and winning the 
•SALONICA, Greece __. Mike Jones,. former Auburn basketball 
player, was convicted Monday of possessing hashish and 
match 15-13, 15-5. However,sentenced to 13 months in prison. He was ordered expelled from 
in the second and third
Greece. Jones, 29, was not in court to hear the sentence and it matches the Belles came upwas not clear whether he was still in Greece. Jones was allowed short against Wheaton 8-15,to buy off his sentence by paying $2 per day in prison. He was 
9-15, and against Illinois
arrested after police found one ounce of hashish in his home. 
Wesleyan 7-15, 4-15. "In those two games, we did not play well as a team," 
coach Shroeder-Biek said. Big Ten of the Week for offense Monday. Dunbar~i'a senior 
~8M~I&8~.'~~~fl~kl!~Jl!Bt~\fi!Jr:~~ ~amed 
"We were frustrated from from Fort Ind.• ran for three touchdowns and a career· 
Wheaton and did not pull high 265 in the Hoosiers' 27.. at Missouri. 
together mentally and therefore, physically," she said. 
Saint Mary's came back and defeated Greenville in their last match 15-5, 15-11. 

his suspension next season. 
"My first responsibility is not to Los Angeles. My first re­sponsibility is to the Reds," Charlton said. "When we got down to the last seven games, I made a decision (to serve the suspension). I didn't want to take it into next year." 
=Ihe_-Obset:Ver= 
The observer is currently taking applications for 
St. MARY•s PHOTOGRAPHERS 
the 
any students intersted in 
PAID POSITION OF: 
working as a photographer 
TYPESETTER
please contact Margarita 
contact Mark Sloan @
Schropp x 284-4345 
239-7471 
a unique opportunity for 
Math/Science
-
-

(Majors/Minors/Aptitudes) 
For you and for the world. Peace Corps will 
combine your education with training to pre­pare you for a volunteer position in: • Edu­cation • Fisheries • Health • Agriculture • Forestry or other areas. You'll meet new peo­ple, Jearn a new language, experience a new culture and gain a whole new outlook. And while you're building your future, you'll be helpit:lg people in developing countries learn the basics of technological advancement. 
look for Peace Corps Representative at these Campus Events: 
Notre Dame Campus:  INFORMATION TABLE:  
Post Graduate Volunteer  Thurs., Oct. 3, 8:30a.m.  
Night Wed., Oct. 2, 7:00pm  5:00p.m., Hesbury Memorial  
Center for Social Change  Hall lobby  
Saint Mary's Campus  
Nursing Job Fair  

Wed., Oct. 2, 3:30p.m.-5:30p.m. Call: 1-800-621-3670 ext. 106 for more details. 


Junior Michelle Martino served 13 in a row in the first game of the match against Greenville and came up with 33 points overall for the tournament. In the second game, it was obvious that Saint Mary's was in control. 
..We worked together as a team in the second game and played to our potential," Shroeder-Biek said. 
Senior captain Karen Lorton made the all-tournament team, contributing 28 kills, 16 blocks, 21 digs and 19 points. 
..It was a good boost for our team captain and our leader to get the recognition she de­served," Shroeder-Biek said. "She's a good all around player." 
The Belles will play Chicago State University tonight in Angela Athletic Facility at 
7:00 p.m. Saint Mary's defeated Chicago State in three games last year and are looking for a repeat per­formance. 


~ 




Tuesday.~ober1, 1991 
The Observer page 23 
Billy leaves home to join the zoo, but returns the next day after being told that, as an animal, he was just ''too common." 
CROSSWOIIJ 
Tuesday 
ACROSS 23 Calabria 49 By means of 
4:30 p.m. Multi-Cultural Fall Festival, Entertainment.
currency 50 Spontaneous

1 Transport of a 
Hawaiian Club. Fieldhouse Mall. 
25 Gothic-window action

sort 6 p.m. Reception, for all business students interested in
lacework 54 Neural network 

5 One for the plus discovering career opportunities with the May Company
27 Astronaut's

column 56 Chicago
approval Department Stores. Lower level, Center for Continuing
business area
10 Coin catcher Education.
30 Vipers ,.
57 -de France
14 Yesterday, to 7 p.m. Film, "The Letter ... Annenberg Auditorium. 
32 Prior, to Prior 59 Deceived

Rene 8 p.m. Reception, for all students interested in discovering
33 Shows 63 Caron role 

15 Get to appreciation career opportunities with General Mills. Alumni Room, Morris 
64 Jackson

16 Singer Seeger 35 Fortunetelling Inn.
nickname 

medium 8 p.m. Multi-Cultural Fall Festival, Cultural Cafe -Music
17 Creme 66-Islands, off 
Fraiche's 40 Angelic topper From Around the World. Theodore's. Sponsored by Multi­
Ireland 

jockey: 41 Graceland Cultural Fall Festival. 
67 Dressed to the 
Belmont, 1985 name 9:15p.m. Film, "Black Rain." Annenberg Auditorium. 19Pro-42 "QB VII" penner 10 p.m. Workshop for eucharistic ministers, Father Joseph
68 Mystery wnter 
20 Used-car deal 43 Streisand hit Lesley-Ross and Sister M.J. Griffin. Sacred Heart Church. 
• 

21-Paulo, 45 Swiftly 69 Weight Brazil 46A.F.L.--deduction 
LECTURES
22 Consumer 47 Bruce of films 70 Browns 71 Garden beauty 
Tuesday 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE DOWN 
3 p.m. Graduate Seminar, "Simultaneous Separations in Inorganic Membrane Reactors," Yi Hua Ma, Worcester
1 "Moonstruck" star Polytechnic Institute. 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. Sponsored by ND 2 Gal Friday chemical engineering department. 4 p.m. life of the Mind Lecture, "Images in My Mind," JoAnn 
3 Warm shades 13 Sad-eyed 37 Ensnare 51 Dancer Shearer 
Widerquist. Carroll Auditorium. Sponsored by Saint Mary's
4 Court event 18 Inventor Howe 38 Shanghai staple 52 Arctic 
College.
5 Weapon 24 Rome. for one 53 Miss-of 
4:15 p.m. Lecture, "Becoming a University -Notre Dame,"
suppliers 26 "Exodus" hero 39 North Sea "Dallas" 
Robert Burns. Lounge, Hesburgh Ubrary. Sponsored by ND
6 Baltic, e.g. 27 Flu symptom feeder 55 Sandy ridge 
history department. 
7 Enervates 41 Deteriorations 58 Best or Ferber
28 Norwegian 

4:30 p.m. Annual Faculty Address, University President
8 Notoriety monarch 44 Hodges or 60 Trademark 
Father Edward Malloy. Washington Hall. 
9 Formulas 29 Leafy green McDougald 61 Memorable 
7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Hustling: The Work of Underclass 
~~~ 1oGrooms oneself 31 Rescued 45 Caper periods 
Minority Women," Eleanor Miller, University of Wisconsin, 
-=+::~~ 11 Rent 34 Bristly rodent 48 Negligent 62 Force unit 
Milwaukee. 105 Science Building. 
~~+=-f 12 Aquatic 36 Ocean 50-ease 65 "Leave-to mammal greyhound (nervous) Heaven" 


Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Roast Turkey "Oktoberfest Irish Fried Flouder Bratwurst w/ SaureJaaut Egg Foo Young Sauerbraten w/ Dumplings 
Potato Pancakes 
Tit! fAR SIJE GARY LARSON 

JAY HOSLER 

TW ~ ~!Ul!N" •._­l'M D£ClARIN.G 
IIIHO Cor.! s Tli/fM ,..K 
"'11\E CREEK

f1Au/JV'5 OFFicE I 
BK~ IN TI-lE. W<Xi>S "CA.l\1\N'S C 
• 
THE fAR SIJE 

CN..Yit AND HOliES BILL WATIERSON 
,,.__ 
© 1985 Universal Press Syndicate 



BILL WATIERSON 

W~~ '(OJ DISG)JER ~81-\\~<J. 'iOO'Q£ ~\.\ONH) TC Nt>.ME IT A.ND M \J~ 
A S\G~. 
I 
~\ 
\ 

GARY LARSON 

~I 
.. 


----~· . ----~ .. 

j ; " 
Sports
\\
i.} I 
~ : l :_ .~ .. 
1'1--. 
}: 
' }~ 
:
.l 
I 
L 
' 



l 
l 
j ' 
. 
i 
) 
' i L_: . 
( r-
I 
I 
) ,. 
) 
I' ): j 

, ' 
page 24 

Choquette leads team with style 
Senior uses experience to bring volleyball a 7-4 record 
By EILEEN McGUIRE Sports Writer 

As co-captain for the 1991 season, Chris Choquette has led the Irish to their best start in history with a 7-4 record. She is a strong player who possesses good technique and timing on blocks. 
"She (Choquette} pushes herself and expects a lot out of herself," first-year Irish coach Debbie Brown said in an interview with the South Bend Tribune. "She's an excellent communicator which is important in volleyball. She keeps the team's spirits up." 
Choquette, a senior English major, was encouraged by her older sister to play volleyball in high school. She eventually lead her Tollgate high school volleyball team, located in Warwick, R.I., to their 75th straight victory and fourth consecutive state championship as captain her senior year. 
Irish men travel to Detroit to begin four-game road trip 
Pitching makes the difference in the end 
Pennant races are won by teams with bullpen punch 
.,-""' ·­

Chris Choquette 
"I didn't give much thought to playing volleyball in college until I was approached by coaches my senior year," Choquette said. 
After being recruited by the Irish, as well as Penn State and Duke, Choquette chose to attend Notre Dame. 
"After I came here I knew this was the school for me," Choquette said...Notre Dame 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Sophomore Michael Palmer receives a pass. Palmer and the Irish make a trip to the University of Detroit this afternoon to face the Titans. 
Two down, two to go in the races for the divisional pennants in baseball. 
Minnesota, the first team to ever go from last to first in a season, wrapped up its second AL West title in five seasons this past Sunday, while Pittsburgh rolled to 

Rene Ferran
its second straight NL East 
Out of Bounds 
crown, a feat not

accomplished since the late ________ 1970's. Five and a half long months ago, numerous sports writers issued predictions concerning the divisional races. In no particular order, they had Boston in the AL East, the two Chicago entries in the AL West and NL East respectively, and Cincinnati in the NL West. Yet it appears that all those writers may go oh-for-1991. (Okay, technically, Boston is still in the hunt, but unless Toronto pulls another choke job of monumental proportions, the Jays will grab the flag). Still, the question has to be asked how one could be so near {both the Red and White Sox will finish second) and yet so far (Cubs and Reds} in his predictions. In one word, pitching. The divisional title con­tenders had it, the pretenders not. In the AL East, both Boston and Detroit made strong runs at the Blue Jays in August and September, but both fell short because a team can live off its offense for only so long. 
~=---­

•----­
Both the Red Sox and the Tigers were, in essence, one-man staffs. Roger Oemens (18-8, 
2.38 ERA} and Bill Gullickson (19-9, 3.90} are Cy Young candidates, but otherwise, their starting pitching staffs have a 4.27 and 4.67 ERA respectively. 
Further, their bullpen collapsed down the stretch-the Boston pen has lost four leads this past week alone, to take the Sox from one strike from a first-place tie to the brink of elimination. 
Meanwhile, Toronto has the best staff ERA in the American League (3.56}, with no starter above 4.00 and two relievers with over 20 saves-only the third time in history this has happened, and the first by a contending club-plenty to survive in baseball's weakest division and with one of the AL's weakest offenses supporting it. 
In the West, Oakland faded when Dave Stew­art couldn't maintain his 20-win pace (he was the frrst AL pitcher since Jim Palmer to win 20 games four years in a row) and 1990 Cy Young Award winner Bob Welch went from 27-6 to 12­12. 
For White Sox fans, their downfall came dur­ing a stretch in August when their normally brilliant pitching deserted them. Chicago fell from a half-game out to eight-and-a-half back in a 17 -day stretch where they were swept by Oeveland and were no-hit by Bret Saberhagen. Overall, the team went 2-15 from August 12-28, and its starting pitchers' ERA: 6.34. 
see RACES/page 20 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's men's soccer team will try to regroup from a disappointing 4-1 loss to Indiana as they visit Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference rival Detroit this afternoon. 
Today's game is the first of four consecutive road games for the Irish, which will mark their first extensive road trip of the season. Notre Dame's fortunes on this trip will depend largely on how the freshmen respond to the challenge of playing on the road. 
"Coach {Mike Berticelli) stressed that the beginning of the season is a learning pro­cess," commented junior Brendan Dillman, "but this (road trip) will also be a good learning experience for the had the perfect combination of academics and volleyball, and I thought I could contribute to this up and coming team." 
As a freshman, the Irish qualified for the NCAA tournament, and as a result, finished 15th in the nation. Choquette saw playing time in the tournament against Illinois. In that game, she had two kills, three blocks and one dig. She has hopes for a repeat performance this year. 
"We'll have to play hard for the rest of the season, but making it to the tournament is a realistic goal," she said. 
As a sophomore, Choquette ranked third on the blocking average list, playing hard and competitively for the rest of the season. She went on to her junior year to play in 34 of Notre Dame's 36 matches. She was third in kills and digs with 269 and 183 respectively. 
see CHOQUETTE I page 15 
Tuesday.~ober1, 1991 
Off-Campus IH football players ruled ineligible 
BYGEORGEDOHRMANN Sports Writer 
Seven members of Off­Campus' interhall football team were ruled ineligible by the RecSports office late Sunday after not qualifying under the university-set guidelines. 
"The rules say that all interhall athletes must be undergraduate students at Notre Dame," said Assistant Director of RecSports Rick O'Leary. "The Off-Campus team had two graduate students and four or five Holy Cross students." 
The ineligible players were discovered before Off­Campus' 20-3 loss to Flanner last Sunday at Stepan Field. Seven players were not allowed to play, and the Crime were forced to play with only twelve players. 
RecSports investigated the matter after a number of halls 
younger players because it's always difficult to play on the road and they'll have to learn to be ready to play every game." 
As they showed in last week's 4-1 loss to Indiana, the fresh­men have been ready to play, but they still have a long way to go before they can compete with some of the nation's best teams. 
"{Against Indiana) Our younger guys played like rela­tively talented upperclassmen," commented Berticelli, "but ev­ery game we're going to get better." 
They will have to show im­provement this afternoon against the Titans. Despite coming off a 3-14-0 campaign in 1990, coach Louie Stankovich's Detroit team boasts 15 returning lettermen, including Dave Poniatowski, 
Women's golf falls short 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 

After a record-breaking performance at Michigan State last week, women's golf coach Tom Hanlon expected another good showing at the Lady Northern Invitational in Champaign, Illinois. 
Unfortunately, the team couldn't overcome the tough University of Illinois course. A three-round total of 996, 4 7 shots higher than last week's performance at Michigan State, could only earn the team 15th place in the 18 team field. 
..After setting a record (at Michigan State) I had high ex­pectations for this tournament," Hanlon commented. "We played against some very strong competitio11, but we really didn't do as well as I expected." 
Minnesota won the overall ti­tle, fmishing at 919, five strokes ahead of Illinois and Northern Illinois. 
Allison Wojnas and Alicia Murray each finished the 54­hole event with 248 totals, fol­lowed by Chrissy Klein and Denise Paulin at 254. Freshmen Katie Cooper and Sara Ruzzo rounded out the Irish scoring at 266 and 27 4, respectively. 
While Wojnas and Murray who netted nine points in 1990, and Danny Babic, who collected four points last season. 
After playing the likes of Saint Louis, Evansville and Indiana, however, this road trip represents quite a drop in the level of competition and the Irish hope to capitalize on their superior skills and improve their 2-3-1 record. 
"Going into the second third of the season we're hoping to win our next six or seven games, which we're very ca­pable of doing," Dillman noted. 
After today's contest at Detroit, the· Irish have a Friday night date at Xavier before travelling to Dayton on Sunday afternoon. The trip will culmi­nate next Wednesday night in Valparaiso, before the Irish re­turn home to face Butler on October 13th. 
contacted them to inquire about the eligibility of several members of the Off-Campus team. 
"We had gotten calls from a couple of different halls," said O'Leary...Using that info we discovered the graduate students and we also found four Holy Cross students." 
Crime coach Steve Fortunato was unavailable for comment but had spoken to RecSports officials and according to O'Leary was being "very cooperative" with the RecSports office. 
"Steve claims that this is all a misunderstanding," O'Leary said. "He thought these athletes were cleared to play." Off-Campus will also have to forfeit their previous game, a 14-0 win over Dillon. That penalty knocks the Crime to the bottom of the Parseghian division and leaves only a slim 
see INELIGIBLE/page 20 
each failed to reach their ex­pectations, there was some en­couragement in the play of Cooper and Ruzzo. 
..The upperclassmen have to be more consistent," Hanlon said, "but I'm encouraged by the play of the freshmen." 
Despite the disappointing performance in Champaign, Hanlon recognizes the im­provement the Irish are mak­ing, but he realizes that there is a lot of ground to be made up before the team will be able to defeat Big Ten quality teams. 
..We're making strides," he said, ..but the strides aren't quite long enough." 
This weekend's trip to DeKalb, Illinois for Northern Illinois University's Husky Classic will round out the team's fall slate. 
Another tough field awaits the Irish, as Iowa State, Nebraska, Purdue and Texas El Paso join host Northern Illinois, but there Irish are capable of finishing among the leaders. 
"There will be some strong competition," said Hanlon, "but there are at least nine teams (out of 15} that we can beat." 
If the team can return to the level of play they reached at Michigan State, they should definitely be in the hunt at Northern Illinois. 





