

~~.~&~e
-Q8·

server 
Saint Ma~'s Coll~e 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 1991
VOL. XXIV NO. 44 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Observer File Photo 

Hazy shades of winter 
A Saint Mary's student walks down Saint Mary's road beneath barren trees. Colder days and leafless trees are signs of the impending winter season. 
2:30 p:m~$henanigans performance, JACC'ijorth Do~e.
Law students hold party for city children 
3:15 p.m: Band step-off, Main Building steps. 

Students robbed off-campus 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
Three Notre Dame male stu­dnnts WBre robbed at gunpoint on Notre Dame Ave. early Wndni!Sday morning, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant di­reetor of Security. 
No one was injured in the in­cidnnt. hi! said. 
The incident occurred as they w1~re walking in the 900 block of N. Notre Dame Ave. at ap­proximately 12:40 a.m. The students reported that they were approaehed by two black men who asktJd them for monHy. 
The students described the suspects as black males, 18 to 23 years old. One was ofmndium build. approximately live feet tnn inches tall and 170 

By TRAVIS SMITH 
News Writer 
For the second year in a row, the Law School's Social Justice Forum (SJF) held a Halloween party for youngsters of the South Bend area, according to Sarah Buescher, a member of the forum. 
Over 80 kids between the ages of seven and 12 were treated to games and food at the South Bend Salvation Army, she said. The party was open to disadvantaged kids from the Salvation Army, the South Bend Homeless Shelter and CAMCO, an organization for abused and pounds. The other was approx­imately 6 feet tall and 200 pounds. 
One suspect produced an au­tomatic handgun during the robbery, Hurley said. The other approached the students from behind with a shotgun. The suspects fled the scene with the students' money. 
The incident is the second armed robbery this week, Hur­ley said. 
Early Sunday morning a Notre Dame male and a Saint Mary's female were robbed outside The Commons located at 826 N. Eddy, he said. 
The incident occurred at ap­proximately 2:30 a.m. Sunday morning behind The Commons near the carry-out door. The students reported that they were approached by three 
neglected children. In addition to the South Bend party, SJF also held a smaller Halloween party at the Mishawaka Salva­tion Army, said Buescher. 
Each child that attended was given a Halloween costume and treated to cupcakes, candy, and drinks, she said. Julia Briscoe, party chairperson, coordinated games for the youth, ranging from pin the tail on the donkey to musical chairs. According to Buescher, both parties took place in the afternoon and lasted for two hours. 
Donations were accepted to cover the cost of costumes, she 


Meetings aim to better alumni social programs 
By MARY MURPHY 
News Writer 

Thirty-three alumni association administrators from across the nation will gather for the James Andrew Conference on Community Service this weekend to discuss ways in which their organizations can serve community needs. 
According to Peter Patrica, director of Alumni Community Service Programs, the purpose of the conference, to be held Nov. 3-5, is to expose alumni to the idea of community service. 
The conference will address two 
issues: why alumni associations should 
be concerned with social justice and 
how to create social programs, said 
Patrica. 

Patrica said that at many institutions people cannot justify social awareness programs in their budget. There is never enough time and staff, he added. The conference affirms the need for alumni associations to be socially aware. 
"We have to turn outward," Patrica said. You can't "wrap yourself in a diploma." 
The second topic of the conference is concerned with the nuts and bolts of so­cial action, such as how to implement programs or how to recruit and treat volunteers, he said. Representatives will share experiences and learn from each other. 
For example, an alumni club in Michigan adopted St. Martin de Porres High School in Detroit, said Patrica. This high school is an all-male, all­black, inner city school; 90 percent of 
males, one of whom acted as if he had a gun. 
The suspects took the stu­dents' wallets and jewelry. No one was injured in the incident, 

its students go to college. The school 
has great spirit and great success, he 
said, but it needs resources to maintain 
its tradition of excellence. 
The alumni club provided the faculty 
with gratuities, extra employment 
opportunities, and free services. 
Patrica said that it provided the 
students with tutoring as well as 
physical resources such as obsolete 
office equipment. 
"This creates a partnership and iden­
tity between the club and the school," 
said Patrica. 
The format of the conference will be a 
lecture presentation with emphasis 
placed on an extended question and an­
swer period following the presenta­
tions, he said. 
Perhaps the most valuable aspect of 
the conference will be an Urban Plunge 
for the participants, according to 
Patrica. This includes visits to Dismas 
House and the South Bend Homeless 
Shelter. 
Father Hegis Duffy, an assistant pro­fessor of theology will be providing the keynote address, Patrica said. Duffy's theme is "What have you done with God's time?" lie believes that every day we are alive is God's gift, and service to others is the most important present we can give. 
The conference memorializes 1961 Notre Dame alumnus James Andrews, who was co-founder of the United Press syndicate. His widow, Kathleen Andrews, a 1963 graduate, will be among those addressing the conference. 
see ALUMNI I page 8 

Sclieau[e 
Hurley said. 

of'£vw~
Both incidents bring to light the need for safety precautions Fridaywhen students are off-campus, 3 p·.m. Campus tt,mr. Meet.atStatue of.OurLady, .

Hurley said. "We've had two 

Main §al;e. . . . • : . :·; ; ,
cases within a week's time in ·4 p.m. Homecomingl'farade, GQ'odwill Plaza to Stad,l.im~ ~;·areas where a lot of kids will be. That concerns us." 

4:3,0.p.m. Marching Band .rehe.arsal, Gr~en Field. .. ·•· 
The incidents occurred after a 

6:45 p.m. lJand.~t~~off for p~p :rally; K9ons Band·Bu1fdiM. 't:· · relatively "quiet" fall, Hurley 
7 p.m. ~ep rally and fireworks, lootbali stadium. said. "Now it seems like things 
8 p.m. Glee Club concert, Washington Hall. are picking up." 
Casino Night, west wing of SouthDining Hall. 
Hurley advised students and visitors to use common sense Saturdaywhen off-campus this weekend. 

6:30,7:15,11:30 a.m. Mass, Crypt.
He noted that the incident out­
1-'

10 a.m. Band rehearsal, Cartier Field.
side The Commons occurred in a relatively well-populated 

J 1 a.m. Porn porn squad performance;}ACC Fh~ldhouse. area. 
2 p.m. Glee Club concert, JACC North Dome. · •t.;, .·. 1 Autograph session with formerfo<\~ball fllt1yers, JACC, •:· · 
i3:40 p.m. Pre-game·performance, stadium.
said, while volunteers made the 4p.m. NO. vs.. Navy; t<lotl;>all stadium. ·

food and other treats. "Last year we only had 40 

fp:45 p:m.'l~~sary deV'!J~i~ns, ~~ GrQtto/behfnd Sacred Heart. kids," Buescher said, "but this 
, •':'f\1irtym.li:mtes a(tet ths game :\'.tgil Mass, A.;~~mnliJall, : . year we had 120 combined 
·,:~·. ;, ~llol\ Hal)~ I<eenan.~al..t., and ~lin J·lal.~.Chapel~. . -,'~ from both parties." Without the 
..:.:Jiif.m•Vigfl:Mas_s, Cavan~tugh '-l~d~Chapel. . .. . 
help of SJF, she said, many of 

"~·p\m. Vi§!l Mass, Pnnsbo~ Hall q,hap~I. ·..'·. these kids would not have been 
.-;i }\pn~al~udent"Go~emment Dessert ReceptJcn;SQut.h · 
able to have Halloween cos­

.f~t\lJ.l~.f!a!!·~ .', · ;~ f, . . .·, · 
tumes, or even experience Hal­

· .• (' · .,., .': ... 4. ~, J' • .;,•'· ·I •-.. .. ·\ Ji, 
t ., • 

..:• · • 'I~·:ll•~'flt ·-·."~ _, .. ' ·: .',-,.,..",!' .;. '
loween. 
The SJF is comprised of Notre Dame Law School students who hold activities such as the Halloween party to help members of the community, Buescher said. SFJ's main event is a Thanksgiving food drive. 



page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Observer tested, but not compromised 
Ahh ... 25 big ones. The Observer has been around for a quarter ofa century . The Berlin Wall is no more, the Cold War is over, yet The Observer remains. 
On Nov. 3. 1966, The 


Observer was Kelley Tuthill born-exciting. news .for Editor-in-Chief some, a fnghtemng ------­prospect for others. There are still two groups of Observer readers: those who enjoy reading and participating in the newspaper and those who would rather get an enema than look at our rag. Since the early days, a group of people under the Golden Dome have suffered from indigestion as they read The Observer during their lunch hour. Father Theodore Hesburgh, president­emeritus, was probably correct when he said: "There should be a law that student newspapers can only be read by students. Adults shouldn't read them; it only raises your blood pressure. Of course you do read them, but you try to get the trustees not to, or the benefactors, or the mothers and fathers." Early on the editors learned that you can't please all of the people all of the time-especially in this community. On Dec. 8, 1966, the staff decided to take a risk and print a controversial article about the "Free Sex Scene" in Berkeley, Calif. It quoted a source as saying, "We want to get people not only to screw but to screw with love." The article caused an outrage on campus and The Observer received many letters de­nouncing the piece. The sharpest criticism came from the University's Administration. On Feb. 9. 1907, the editors printed a "heartfelt" apology for running the Berkeley piece on the same page as an article explain­ing that their response was written following "irresistible coercion from the University Administration." The forced apology was only the first of many "coercions" from the Notre Dame Administration. Later, The Observer would be "persuaded" to join Budget Unit Control and accept restrictions on advertising. While editors were reluctant to accept the Administration's decrees, they were literally given two options-agree to our demands or lose student fees and office space on campus. With each Administrative "request," stu­dents have had to decide which was worse-putting editorial freedom on the line or the future of the publication itself. Ultimately the demise of the paper was the possibility that hung over student editors' heads. If The Observer lost student fees and office space, the newspaper was at risk-a possibility no editor has yet cared to explore. Nothing has threatened our editorial freedom to that extent ... yet. The Observer has been an integral part of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for the past 25 years. We hold at a premium our editorial independence, just as our founders did. In 1966, the editors founded the paper with the goal "To uncover the truth and to report it accurately. This is our goal. This is our purpose." While our independence has been tested many times, The Observer's purpose has never been compromised. We haven't always reached our goal, but we strive to produce a paper worthy of the expectations set by a group of ambitious individuals 25 years ago. 
Thursday's Staff Jason Thomas 
Production 
Caroline Gianneigza Peggy Crooks 

News 
Brian Nowicki 
David Kinney Irish Extnl
Rich Riley Kristin Costello Steve Zavetoski Cheryl Moser Lab Tech 
Shonda Wilson ~racciolo Mat; Hueckel Gerrie Hamitton 
Accent 
Haralambos Zembillas Irish Foolbell
Christina Ortiz Cln:Uallon Kristin Costello 
Sports 
Bill O'Rourke 
Rolando de Aguiar lluslrations
Matt Novak Jake Frost 
Dave Devine

Scoreboard ViewpointMark McGrath 
Brian Stalter 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
Bush supports Aristide 

• PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -President Bush on Tuesday ordered an embargo -which will take effect Nov. 5 -to pressure Haiti's new leaders to reinstate exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. He was ousted by the military on Sept. 30. Aristide, Haiti's first democratically elected leader, applauded the U.S. mea­sure. The army-installed interim government charges that Aristide abused his office and encouraged mob violence during seven months in power. The army adamantly opposes Aristide's return. Fearing the con­sequences of a cutoff of trade from the United States, Haitians are hoarding food and facing long lines for gasoline. 
Volunteers stop arsonists 

• DETROIT-About 39,000 volunteers dared would-be arsonists to light up their neighborhoods and apparently held down the number of fires set during Devil's Night, the city's annual pre-Halloween arson spree, authorities said. Firefighters sat idle for hours at a time Wednesday night as volunteers, armed with fire extinguishers and flashlights, defended the city and its image, which suffered from widespread publicity of last year's Devil's Night. An official count of Wednesday's fires won't be available until Friday, but the number probably will fall short of the 411 reported Oct. 29-31 last year, said Bob Berg, a city spokesman. 
Hill cut from video 

• NORMAN, Okla. -Anita Hill has been edited out of a video promoting the University of Oklahoma. The two seconds of footage of the law professor were shot in 
OF INTEREST 

• 
The last day to sign up for placement exams for French and Spanish is today. A Notre Dame I.D. is re­quired to sign up for the examines which will be offered in Room 201, Language Resource Center, of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The tests are sponsored by the Department of Romance Languages and Uterature. 

• 
Computer EXPO, an exhibition of computer technol­ogy open to students, parents, faculty and staff, will be held from noon to 5 p.m. today at Stepan Center. The event is sponsored by the Office of University Computing. 

• 
Casino Night will be sponsored by Notre Dame's Student Union Board in the west wing of South Dining 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/10ctober 31 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 163.55 Million 213.34 it 1.13 S&P COMPOSITE 387.86 -t 1.96 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,018.34 -11 1.57 

PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD1} $ .20 to $354.20/oz. 
SILVER1} 2.5¢ to $4.198oz. 
Friday, November 1, 1991 
FORKAIT: 
Blustery winds with highs in the low 50s for Friday with a chance of sprinkles or snow flurries Friday night. 
TEMPERATURES: 
CHy  H  L  
Alhens  S7  48  
Manta  79  55  
Berlin  45  34  
Boston  51  48  
Chicago  51  41  

Dallas-Ft. Worth 41 39 Denver 32 10 Detroit 58 50 Honolulu 89 70 Houston 68 46 Indianapolis 63 51 London 57 46 Los Angeles 71 48 Madrid 64 48 Miami Beach 78 73 New Orieans 80 69 New York 56 48 Paris 55 48 Philadelphia 62 50 Rome 63 48 St. Louis 53 38 San Francisco 70 48 Seattle 45 41 South Band 52 28 Tokyo Tl 59 Washington, D.C. 67 50 

August for use in a promotional spot to be aired during a televised Oklahoma football game, said David Smeal, head of electronic media communications for the university. "She is so articulate that she was included," Smeal said. "But her national and international exposure at the hearing changed the whole concept of the spot." University officials were concerned the focus might be on Hill instead of on the school, Smeal said. 
Holy Cross open house 
• NOTRE DAM£, In -Holy Cross College will host an open house on Sunday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. The open house is an opportunity for students, parents and the general public to learn more about the College and its role in the Michiana community. There will be an in­formational program about the College in the auditorium at 1:30 p.m. Throughout the day, faculty, administrators and staff will be on hand to answer questions and provide personal tours. 
Sesquicentennial TV talk 
• NO"rRE DAME, In -A panel of Notre Dame repre­sentatives will discuss-the University's past, present and future November 2 at 6 p.m. on WSBT-TV's program "Newsmakers." Mary Simco will host the show which will also be aired on November 3 at 5:30 a.m. by Sunny 101.5 FM and at 6:30 a.m. by WSBT-AM 960. The guest panelists will include Kathryn Pamenter, a Notre Dame senior and chair of student activities for the Sesquicentennial; Nathan Hatch, dean of Notre Dame's Graduate School; Philip Gleason, professor of history; and Father Wilson Miscamble, assistant professor of history. 
Hall from 8 to 11 p.m. tonight. The casino night is free and open to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College community. Visiting parents are also welcome. Activities for the night will included the standard game of chance. Gift certificates to area restaurants will be awarded as prizes. For more information, contact Henry Mark at 277-5195. 
• A faculty piano recital will be presented by William Cerny on Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. The commemorative pro­gram features piano sonatas by Mozart, in honor of the 200th anniversary of his death, and Prokofieff, in honor of the 1 OOth anniversary of his birth. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1936: Mussolini announced an Italian pact with the Third Reich, and urged France and Britain to join. 

• 
In 1939: New York's Rockefeller Center, one of the greatest urban developments ever undertaken, was completed after eight years of construction. 

• 
In 1944: The first quadruplets delivered by caesarean section were born in Philadelphia to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Cirminello. 

•In 
1950: Two Puerto Rican nationalists attempted to assassinate President Truman. 

• 
In 1968: President Johnson told the nation in a televised speech that he had ordered a stop to all American air, naval 


and artillery bombardments in North Vietnam. 
The Observer 

Friday, November 1,1991 page 3 



Folksinger entertains at center for the homeless 
. By JOE MOODY Viewpoint Editor 
Folksinger Charlie King shook 
the windows and rattled the 
walls of South Bend's Center for 
thn llornnless Wndnesday night 
in a concmt that came straight 
from the stronts. 
Standing tall in working 
man's clothes and a smile be­
hind his scruffy beard, King 
played solo with linly an acous­
tic guitar and a harmonica 
strappnd around his neck. 
Most of the audiPnce was 
comprised of residnnts and 
workNs of thn homeless shelter. 
Also prnsnnt wnrP. volunteers 
and n~presnntatives both from 
the University and the 
community. 
Many of King's songs dealt 
with tlw travnsty or tlw home­
less in Amnrira. !lis lyrics of 
twnntinth cPntury troubles, 
problmns and aspirations or the 
common man, stirred memories 
or past nxpnriences for the 
honwless that were present. 
For otlwrs prnsent, King's lyrics 
painted vivid portraits, letting 
thnm glimpse uncom­
promisingly into thn very real 
face or desolation. 
!lis lyries w1~rn not all on the dark side though. His very the message. cheery approach to such sub­"They say he could hold his jects as dishonesty in politics, liquor...problem was he alcoholism among the poor and couldn't let go," sang King. hopelessness in an economically King, a gentle man in pres­unstable nation made the topics ence, follows in the tradition of palpable yet didn't detract from Woody Guthrie, Malvina 




is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Business Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Nov. 1 to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 
~:::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ 1 ~ ~ e m p Io y e e and a c u s t ome r 
,---------------------------------------------------------------------------­

WEEKEND WHEELS 
ROUTE MAP 

M'.IN LIBRARY I 
CIRCLE CIRCLE 
OITJ liJ] 
JUNIPER' 
L 


I >  BULLA I~OJ  J  
'2:::  

r:-V:-:-A=NE::-::Sc::-s-=~~--i ~
l 

I 
WEEKEND WHEELS offers~ and~ transportation from select off-campus locations every Friday and Saturday night, with the exception of breaks and finals week, from 12:00 midnight to 3:00 a.m. The bw: runs as follows: 
I) Campus View Apartments (South entrance only on Willis): 12:00 12:30 1:00 1:30 2:00 2:30 
2) Turtle Creek (Comer of Vaness behind Video Watch): 12:02 12:32 1:02 1:32 2:02 2:32. 
3) The Linebacker Lounge (South Bend Ave. side): 12:04 12:34 1:04 1:34 2:04 2:34 
4) Five Comers (Across from The Commons): 12:11 12:41 1:11 1:41 2:11 2:41 
5) Lafayette Square (Corner of Eddy and Cedar-North ofcomplex): 
12:14  12:44  1:14  1:44  2:14  2:44  
6) Club 23 (Notre Dame Ave. side):  
12:18  12:48  1:18  1:48  2:18  2:48  
7) Main Circle (Drop off only):  
12:21  12:51  1:21  1:51  2:21  2:51  
8) Library Circle (Drop off only):  
12:23  12:53  1:23  1:53  2:23  2:53  

You must show Notre Dame or St. Mary's I.D *Sponsored by Hall Presidents' Council* 
Reynolds and Pete Seeger. He says that if he doesn't offend anyone, he's not doing his job. However, he also acknowledges the importance of not "people putting-off' so that they will not listen to what he has to say. 
SMC security officer helps arrest robbery suspect 
Special to The Observer 
A Saint Mary's College secu­
rity officer assisted in the arrest of an off-campus robbery suspect early Wednesday morning, according to Brett McLaughlin, public information officer. 
Officer Ruth MacDonald was on a routine break at the Rose­land Shell service station on 
U.S. 33 when she encountered a robbery in progress. MacDonald 
entered the station to find an. 
armed with what appeared to
be a butcher knife. 
MacDonald was forced to the floor by the suspect, a black male, six feet two inches tall 
The show's set list was made up of remakes from traditional folk songs, his own country western song and a gospel song as well as many of his original works. 
He approached each song with a refreshing attitude that was not afraid to attack nstab­lishments yet maintainnd a heartiness that kept his listen­ers with an opnn mind -of­fended or not. 
One song in particular was a parody of a Paul Anka hit, "I Did it My Way." It satirized the pampered life of the average college student who has ehosen to follow thn course of a main­stream education at the ex­pense of his own individuality. "I did it their way," jested King. 
The second set of the show started with a resident of the shelter who sang a very inspi­rational gospel with no musical back-up. The show endud with King singing "This Little Light of Mine" where the audience ­some in flannel, some in suits ­got up to sing and dance along. 
The performance was made possible by the University of Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns. 
and approximately 240 pounds. The suspect later fled the scene. 
While MacDonald was con­tacting Saint Mary's Security, she noticed the suspect walking through an Amoco station ad­jacent to the scene. 
A Saint Mary's student at the Amoco station told MacDonald that she had just eome from the Shell station where the suspect had demanded her purse at knife point. 
Roseland police arrived shortly thereafter, and were able to later apprehend the suspect with the assistance of a canine unit. 
Police were able to recover the money from the robbery. 

·fht-country 
:J{arvester 
"A great little gift shop" 
THE SHOP YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED TO FIND 
Discover delightful surprises in our quaint country store here on campus 
We carry a variety of items such as country crafls, cards and candles. 
Wann up in "Irish" cardigan sweatshirts. Bundle up in 100% cotton blankets. ND Blue & Gold included ! 
Enjoy browsing for treasures handcr.Jfled by local artisians. 
OPEN TODAY 9AM·8PM 
Regular hours are:  
Monday thru Friday 12 -5 Saturdays 11 -2  
(Extended  hours during special events)  
U.P.S. SERVICE DAILY  1'he Country Harvester lAForlune Student Center Lower Level (2/9) 239-67/4  VISA & MASTERCARD ACCEPTI:D  



---·~----------~--~ ---~---­
.--~---­
----....-----­
The Observer 

page 4 Friday, November 1,1991 

Mideast talks continue amid familiar tensions, demands 

Protesters threaten terrorist action 
MADRID, Spain {AP)-Arab delegates spurned an invitation Thursday from Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir to go to Israel to negotiate, drama­tizing a growing dispute over where the Mideast peace con­ference is heading. 
In their first exchanges on the floor of the historic conference, Arab and Israeli leaders traded recriminations and clung to familiar positions. The Arabs demanded all the land they lost in the 1967 war. Israel demanded recognition before it would even consider yielding territory. 
Although the day was devoted to formal speeches, the atmo­sphere was more confronta­tional than in Wednesday's opening session. Shamir called it a "garden of thorns." 
The Arabs argued that peace was conditional on Israeli will­ingness to give up the captured territories. "Every inch," in­sisted Syria's foreign minister, Farouk al-Sharaa. 
Shamir said "The issue is not territory but our existence." 
"We appeal to you to re­nounce the 'jihad' {holy war) against Israel," he said. 
But the speeches also carried elements of the conciliatory language the world was hoping to hear from this unprece­dented gathering of Israelis, Palestinians, Jordanians, Syri­ans, Lebanese and Egyptians. 
"Blessed are the peacemak­ers," said Jordanian Foreign 


Yltzhak Shamir 
are willing to live side by side on the land," said Haidar Ab­dul-Shafi, representing the Palestinians. Shamir began his speech with a simple "Shalom." 
Although the Arab and Israeli delegation heads did not ap­plaud each other's speeches, Thursday's session was a mile­stone. It marked the first time Palestinians and Israelis have addressed each other in a for­mal negotiating format. 
But while the conference itself kept to the format scripted by its architect, Secretary of State James Baker III, questions arose over how it will develop when the ceremonies end and the real face-to-face bargaining begins. 
In inviting the Arabs to start negotiations in Israel and rotate them to the Arab states, Shamir was in effect challenging them to prove they recognize Israel. 
"There is no better way to make peace than to talk in each other's home. Avoiding such talks is a denial of the purpose 

The Arabs want to talk on neutral ground, at least until Israel proves willing to consider their demand for territorial concessions, Palestinian rights and an end to building Jewish settlements in the occupied territories. 
"The momentum in Madrid is good, the spirit in Madrid is good, why don't we keep it here?" said Jordan's foreign minister, Kamel Abu Jaber. He said an argument over venue posed a "danger of disrupting the whole momentum of the conference." 
The first round of face-to-face negotiations is to begin in Madrid on Sunday, Israeli offi­cials said. But it will deal only with procedural matters. Still in question is where the sub­stantive bilateral talks will take place. 
Seated in the chandeliered Hall of Columns of the Spanish royal palace, Arabs and Jews listened in silence as each dele­gate used his allotted speaking time to deliver his history of the Arab-Israeli conflict and his vi­sion of peace. 
Their fundamental differences were evident, even in their reading of history. 
Shamir saw Israel as the vic­tim of sustained Arab "boycott, blockade, terrorism and outright war." 
Syria's al-Sharaa said that but for Israel, "millions of Arabs ­Palestinians, Syrians and Lebanese -would not have been uprooted from their 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) ­Thousands of Shiite Muslim radicals burned American and Israeli flags in Beirut Wednesday to protest the Mideast peace talks, and an Iranian hard-liner threatened to kill conference participants. 
Syrians and Jordanians, meanwhile, looked for progress from the talks that opened Wednesday in Spain, and Saudi Arabia's King Fahd wished success for the historic peace effort. 
In Tehran, Ali Akbar Mo­htashemi, the Iranian founder of Shiite Muslim terrorist groups in Lebanon, warned that Muslim revolutionaries loyal to the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini "will turn the world into a graveyard and an inferno" for the United States, Israel and their allies. 
Mohtashemi, a leading Par­liament member and Iran's former interior minister, said all participants at the Madrid conference should be assassi­nated for treachery. 
He singled out President Bush as a "first-degree criminal" who should be punished for sponsoring the talks, which Islamic radicals see as a betrayal of the Palestinian cause. 
Mohtashemi's call before Parliament was not endorsed by President Hashemi Rafsanjani, a pragmatist. 
But the country's spiritual leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said participants at the conference were committing "treason," and would "suffer the wrath of nations." 
In Beirut, about 12,000 chest-beating demonstrators marched behind flags of the Iran-backed Hezbollah to the shattered U.S. Embassy com­pound, which was blown up by a Shiite suicide bomber on April 18, 1983. Sixty-two people, including 12 Americans, were killed and 100 wounded. 
"We gathered here today to express our utmost wrath at America, the forces of international arrogance and Israel. The Madrid conference means nothing to us," Hezbollah leader Abbas Musawi said. 
He addressed the demonstrators from a balcony of the former embassy, now home to Shiite refugees displaced by Le­banon's civil war. Some of the Hezbollahis burned American and Israeli flags and declared their determination to "liberate holy Jerusalem." 
In Palestinian refugee camps throughout Lebanon, Palestinians burned rubber tires and waved black flags, a traditional sign of mourning. 
In Amman, Jordan, people crowded around televisions to watch the opening ceremony of the peace conference. 

Minister Kamel Abu-Jaber. "We of the negotiations," he said. homes." L----------------------------1 
Catch the YI~VE of 
0CT()Ht/{.J'i9/
Notre Dame Tradition and pass 
The Official University of Notre Dame Sesquicentennial Desk Calendar Spiral bound for convenient use as an appoint­ment book, this exquisite 16-month desk calen­

'ti··.i·
dar-containing 16 full-color photos of campus A


it on 
scenes-is the perfect guide to the celebration of ,.._,...,.,
.:.;:: .. .,,,,.,,...•. ·'· .~ . 
Notre Dame's 150th birthday. $19.95 cloth ... ,,,_,..,~...~--.,

with I ;,~ 
I I ­
........... ,...., ,,<.,. 
O'Malley of Notre Dame John W. Meaney The University of Notre Dame This book chronicles the spirit A Portrait of Its History and Campus
and dedication of one of Thomas J. SchlerethNotre Dame's most 
The University Notre Dame
Using over 430 photographs, maps, and famous teachers. 
A Eh1miJ tlflts Hishwy ~wd Cn11pus
drawings, Schlereth brings to life the people $10.95 paper 
and moments that made Notre Dame. $32.95 cloth, $18.95 paper 
~ 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
-· A CONTEMPORARY 
__pQBJRAIT 
Notre Dame Remembered 
u ''~ttu.:j l "'l ' ..; ,.~.. "' An Autobiography The words and 78 color and black-and­Edward Fischer 
' ROll£RT I~ ~CHMUHL white photographs in this book provide the 'Well-written and bighearted,
n:cosc £JXTJcN~-~ 
most up-to-date portrait of the University of this will be great for Notre Notre Dame available. 
Damers."-The Kirkus Reviews 
..,.________1 $9.95paper ••••$12.95 paper 
--------------------------~-----. 
Friday November 1,1991 The Observer page 5 
Early American missionaries forced the conversion of natives 
By JOHN RYAN 
News Writer 
Professor Thomas O'Meara discussed the debate between the Dominican theologians in Spain and the missionaries in America ovflr the treatment of the Native Americans in the early 1500s in a lecture yester­day. 
O'Meara based his research on hundrnds of articles written by famous Spanish Dominican thnologians, such as Francisco de Viloria and Bartolome de Las Casas. The articles concerned the Christians' arrival in the New World. and the treatment of the foreign people they encountered. 
In the early sixteenth century the theologians at the Domini­can School of Salamanca in Spain received many letters from the missionaries in Amer­ica telling them of the "increasingly horrible picture of the conditions in the colonies," said O'Meara. 
After reading the missionar­ies' letters, the Dominican the­ologians found that they must "defend the Indians from inva­sion, war, slavery and con­quest," said O'Meara. 
They found the manner in 



NIGHT 
THE 
INS 


sionaries was unjust and de­moralizing. The missionaries, on the other hand, believed their violence against the na­tives was justified by the Native Americans' religious inferiority. 
The theologians argued that the "people will never forgive you for bringing war to them," and will not accept your reli­gion, O'Meara said. 
Based on the doctrine of Thomas Aquinas, the theolo­gians believed force was not the way to convert the Native Americans. Aquinas believed in "the defense of people on the terms of natural law," said O'Meara. Natural rights could only be acquired at birth, and not through baptism, the the­ologians believed. 
The main question of the time was whether people who had not been in the church could be saved by grace. According to Aquinas and his followers, it was possible to be saved as long as one obeyed the natural laws. 
According to the theologians, many of the missionaries in America did not subscribe to this belief, and they tried to force their religion onto the Native Americans, O'Meara said. 
Houdini fails to show at annual seance 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. (AP)-The table was laid with handcuffs and lock picks, but the guest of honor was a no-show at the Official Houdini Seance on Thursday. 
Harry Houdini didn't show up last year either. Or the year be­fore that. Or at any of the seances held in the 65 years since his death on Halloween. 

"After all this time, I don't know if he's going to come back now," said his niece, Marie Blood. "But who knows?" 
This year's seance was held a few hundred yards from where Houdini escaped from two pairs of handcuffs after jumping into the Erie Canal. 
In his last years, the escape 
Day Editor needed at SMC Observer Office Must be available Mon., Wed., and Fri. afternoons Contact Jennifer Haybrych 284-4426 
artist concentrated on exposing the trickery of psychics who claimed to be in touch with spirits. But he promised his wife he would contact her from the other side of the grave if possible. 
"Houdini never said he could come back. He just thought that if anybody could do it, it would be him," said Henry Muller, curator of the Houdini Magical Hall of Fame in Niagara Falls. 
Houdini left his wife a code, now in Muller's possession, so she would know it was him: 10 circled words in a letter from Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, creator of Sherlock Holmes, and a list of another 10 words. 
Beatrice Houdini held seances for a decade in hopes of con­tacting her husband before giv­ing up with the memorable quote, "Ten years is long enough to wait for any man." 
In a banquet room at the Holiday Inn, surrounded by television cameras and 80 spec­
' tators, psychic Bernice Golden told the son of Houdini's assis­tant and 10 other participants to put their hands on the table. 
Every dinner includes 
Shone!s Souo. 
Salad &Fruit Bar 

SHONEY~ 
Available at participating restaurants. 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
page 6 The Observer Friday, November 1,1991 

The Observer/Sean Farna 

Brick by brick 
Workers continue work on the nearly completed DeBartolo quad yesterday afternoon. 
Louisiana governor attacks Duke; says former KKK leader is 'phony' 

BATON ROUGE, La. (AP)­Lame duck Gov. Buddy Roemer said Thursday he will vote for Edwin Edwards in a guberna­torial runoff, saying a victory by former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke would be economic "suicide" for Louisiana. 
But Roemer stopped short of giving a full endorsement in the Nov. 16 runoff for Edwards, his longtime rival and a three-term governor. 
Roemer, a Republican ousted in the Oct. 19 primary, deliv­ered a blistering attack on Duke, who is in a close race with Edwards. 
"A Duke victory is a real pos­sibility. A real possibility. The consequences will be death for this state. We will be redlined, barbed wired and bricked off," Roemer said. 
"So I will vote for Edwards with all my fears and hopes and tears and doubts and prayers going to the polls with me," Roemer said. 
Roemer said electing Duke 
David Duke 

·would be economic "suicide" 
and would scare away business 
and industry. Business groups 
have said they fear Duke's 
election would harm the state's 
reputation and thereby harm 
chances for economic growth. 
Duke has said his election 
would help the economy be­
cause his stand against new 
taxes would encourage eco­
nomic growth. 

Duke is running as a Republi­
can, but President Bush and 
other GOP leaders have dis­owned him. 
Edwards, a Democrat, has made several concessions to Roemer supporters in recent days regarding environmental action, Roemer's anti-corrup­tion efforts and other reforms pushed by Roemer. 
In response to Roemer's an­nouncement, Duke told The As­sociated Press, "I don't even think an endorsement from Mikhail Gorbachev could win the election for Edwin Ed­wards." 
"I was amazed to hear Roe­mer say negative things about me but not speak about the ter­rible government we had under Edwin Edwards," Duke said. 
"On Duke's only theme, welfare, he is a phony," Roemer said. "Like a Louisiana bullfrog, he is all mouth and no performance." 
Duke has associated with neo­Nazis in the 1980s and was the national leader of the KKK in the late 1970s. 
Students to present research 
Beeker CPA Review Course 
Special to The Observer saturated Zone." encourage the best students to The goal of the REU pro­enter graduate studies in Civil 
Invites you to attend
Three Notre Dame students gram was to help students bet­Engineering at Notre Dame, will speak today on their in­ter understand research and to according to Elmufdi.. 
a presentation on
volvement in the Research Ex­perience for Undergraduates (REU) program sponsored by the Department of Civil Engi­
II How to prepare
neering last summer. 
ne CJ,;o£

The undergraduate sympo­sium in Engineering will begin 
PANCAKE 

for the CPA Exam IIat 2 p.m. in room 120 of Cush­
ing Hall. Students will present 
HOUSE GO IRISH!!!


research papers that were ac­cepted for presentation at the 
Second Annual Argonne Sym­
~~·f•••i~--~.~••-.~-BEATNAVY posium for Undergraduates in 
LUIICB SPECIAL 

Monday, November 11th, 1991
Science, Engineering and Math­NOVEMBER SPECIAL ematics. Mon.-Fri. 
Juan Elmufdi will present his 
OVEN BAKED 

LaFortune Center -Dooley Room
FREE

paper, "D.E.M. Simulations of 
4EGG

Granular Flows on an Inclined 
FRENCH FRIES.

Chute." David Tomasula will 
6:00p.m.
JUMBO 

present his paper, "Nonlinear With Any Optimal Control of Linear 
OMELETS 

Pizza and Pop will be served 
Sandwich Order 

Structural Systems," and Steve Zayko will discuss, "Chemical 
Drawing for a $50 Gift Certificate
After 11:00 A.M. 
50¢oFF

and Thermal Transport in Un-
Please 

from Notre Dame Book Store
No Coupon Needed 

"Rich and nutty...a fine new 
Open 7 Days A Week 
Serving Michiana 

for further info., caD:
At 6:30A.M. For Over 26 Years

film by a fine new director:' 
-Vincent Canbv, 
277-4366 
The New York Times 
':Just about perfect ... 
marvelously literate, comic 
and romantic:' 
-Peter Travers, Rolling Stone 
3THINGS 
"* * * *(highest rating)" -Mike McGradv, Newsdav
. . 
TO CONSIDER 
BEFORE BUYING 
ACOMPUTER 
IN YOUR 
FRESHMAN 
Friday 7:30 & 9:30 
YEAR. 
Saturday 8:30 & 10:15 



The Observer 

ND law student awarded $5,000 scholarship 
By JOHN CONNORTON 
News Writer 

Brian Lennon, a third year law student at the University of Notre Dame was granted a $5,000 scholarship by West Publishing Company, one of the premier publishers of legal ma­terials. 
"The process was more like a lottery than a true scholarship contest," Lennon said after re­ceiving his scholarship. "I guess I got a little lucky." 
Lennon was first introduced to West Publishing Company and its flagship product WESTLAW, a computer-assisted legal research service, while attending West Publishing's "Maximize" summer training program. He was preparing for his summer associate position at Law Weathers & Richardson in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Attending these summer training sessions made Lennon eligible for West's scholarship drawing, he said. 
Four other students from several prominent law schools were awarded $5,000 scholar­ships. Law Weathers & Richardson received a WALT PC, a computer connected to the WESTLAW legal research service, as a result of Lennon's award. One $10,000 scholar­ship was awarded to a student at New York Law School. 
"The scholarship contest was basically designed to make WESTLAW more attractive to law students than its rival ser­vice, LEXUS/NEXUS," Lennon said. 
In addition to attending classes at the Notre Dame Law School, Lennon is currently as­sisting Professor John Attanasio on his treatise on Constitutional law. He is also a teacher's assistant in a legal writing workshop at the law school. 
Recently married to a fellow Notre Dame law student, Len­non said, "my wife Susan and I have two tuition bills. I was re­ally ecstatic when I found out I had won. It will make this year a little easier for the both of us." 
Upon graduation from Notre Dame Law School in May, Len­non will serve in the U.S. Marines in the Judge Advocate General Corp for three years. 

logether., 
we can 
chan(!C
b 
things. 
page 7 

Senate votes against arts restrictions 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Law­makers from Western states abandoned Sen. Jesse Helms in droves Thursday, accepting a "corn for porn" deal that pre­serves grazing subsidies in ex­change for keeping new anti­obscenity restrictions off fed­eral arts grants. 
On a 73-25 vote, the Senate reversed its support of Septem­ber for the North Carolina sen­ator's measure to impose pro­hibitions on subsidizing "patently offensive" sexual ex­hibits or performances. 
The action effectively cleared the way for sending to Presi­dent Bush a House-Senate compromise on a $12 billion appropriations bill financing the Interior Department and the National Endowment for the Arts in fiscal 1992. 
The Senate had voted 68-22 in September to include Helms' anti-obscenity restriction on the NEA's use of its $176 million budget as part of the bill, and the House endorsed it twice by better than 2-to-1 margins in October. 
However, it was deleted in a compromise put together by Senate Appropriations Chair­man Robert Byrd, a West Vir­ginia democrat, and Rep. Sid­ney Yates, a democrat from Illinois, merging House and Se­nate versions of the bill. 
In exchange, Yates agreed to abandon a House-passed mea­sure in the bill that would have doubled the $1.97 -a-head monthly grazing fee on federal land. 
We'd like to suggest that you give your NeXTstations are moving not only into put your NeXTstation to work first and read In fact, your NeX'Htation can switch compurer the same carcftd consideration teaching labs bur into dorm rooms as well. the instruction manual later. efl(mlessly among any of over I00 NeXT that you give your major. With a minimum of8 MB of memory just don't be misled by cHtr simplicity. applications. Revolutionary applications 
More, acwally. and lOS MB of hard disk storage standard, Behind that comfortably intuitive graphi-like Lotus" lmprovN, Adobe'"lllustrator'", 
After all, it typically doesn't cost a couple you 'II be hard pressed to ru11 uut of riJOm fur cal interface r..:sidcs the full power of \Vordl'erfc:cr', 'lt>pDraw"', and Sui ti'C '. of thous•:nd dollars to s11 itch YOUR all your accumulated kn~wledge. YOUR UNIX", the ope_rating system AND JOUR Software you can put to 
~aJ~rs. So keep SOPHOMORE YEAR JUNIOR YEAR 
m mmd rhat the  •  And With a Motorola  of.cho~ce among • SCJenosts, re­ work on your school SENIOR YEAR. work today.  
bargain computer chat Y.orks just tine for  68040 processor, that clocks in at a fulllS  searchers and business professionals.  And for many days thereafter.  
freshman English may seem a bit  MIPS, you won't find your NeXTstation  Unlike personal computer operating sys- So visit your local campus computer re- 
lightweight when you're knee-deep in  slowing down at the precise moment your  terns, like MS-008-, with UNIX you can  •die< fm' NeXT,,.tion demo"'~  
statistics. Or engineering equations. Or  workload is picking up.  print a term paper, evaluate a complex  tion. And get an idea just how  
reseaJCh projects.  What's more, it won't take four years to  spreadsheet, and graph your latest lab re- exciting the next four years are  
Which may explain why more and more  learn to use one. Don't be surprised ifyou  suits, all at full speed. All at the same time.  going to be.  ®  


page 8 
Professor to discuss Christianity 
Special to The Observer 
Nicholas Lash, visiting pro­
fessor of theology at the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame, will lec­
ture on "Eagles and Sheep: 
Christianity and the Public 
Order Beyond Modernity" 
Tuesday at 8 p.m. in the Res­
burgh Library auditorium. 
Lash, who arrived this fall at 
Notre Dame, has been the Nor­
ris-Hulse Professor of Divinity 
at the University of Cambridge 
since 1978. He has lectured on 
theology at universities and 
colleges worldwide and has 
been a visiting professor at the 
University of San Francisco, the 
University of San Diego, Boston 
College, and the University of 
Virginia. 
Lash has written or edited 
twelve books, including 
"Theology on the Way to Em~ 
maus" and "Easter in Ordinary: 
Reflections on Human Experi­
ence and the Knowledge of 
God," and some three hundred 
essays, articles, and reviews. 
The lecture is sponsored by 
the Department of Theology. 
Kennedy rape trial commences 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) -Seven months a(ter a woman said she was raped by William Kennedy Smith, lawyers Thursday began ques­tioning potential jurors about his famous family, from its scandals to its tragedies. 
Smith watched intently and took notes during the question­ing. 
"I'm innocent of the charges," Smith told hundreds of reporters as he entered the Palm Beach County Courthouse. "And today the court will begin to try to find six people who have an open mind, who will look at all the evidence in the case. 
''I'm confident that when the process is completed, I'll be found innocent," he said. "I look forward to putting this behind me and getting on with my life and my career, which I miss a great deal." 
The 31-year-old Georgetown medical school graduate, a nephew of Sen. Edward Kennedy, was accompanied by his mother, Jean Kennedy Smith, aunt Patricia Lawford, sisters Amanda and Kym Maria, and his brother Stephen. 
Smith is accused of raping a 30-year-old Florida woman at the Kennedys' Palm Beach es­tate March 30. 
Alumni 
continued from page 1 
The conference will be held at Notre Dame because the University is considered a leader in alumni community service, according to Patrica. "Notre Dame is the only alumni association to have a full time director," he said. "Notre Dame is considered a leader, and I relish the opportunity to fulfill it (that role)," Patrica said. 
The conference is cospon­sored with the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE), Patrica said. 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Couch potatoes and witches 

Saint Mary's juniors (left to right) Cheryl Copeland, Margie Pelton, Meredith Leuck, Jennifer Wojcieszek and Jennifer McMahon dress up for the SAB Costume Party. 
The Observer Friday, November 1,1991 

Cunningham 
will reflect 
on theology 
Special to The Observer 
Lawrence Cunningham, chair of Notre Dame's theology de­partment, will lead a discussion titled "A Study of Theology: Some Reflections" tonight at 7:30p.m. 
The discussion will be held at the Holy Family Catholic Worker House at 502 N. Notre Dame Ave. 
Cunningham joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1988 after 21 years on the faculty of Florida State University. His scholarly interests include religion, cul­ture, and values; the nature of saintliness; and the quest for faith. 
He is the author of 11 books, including "The Catholic Faith: An Introduction," which won the Catholic Press Association's 1987 award for the Best Book on Catholicism. He was ap­pointed chair of Notre Dame's theology department last Au­gust. 
The discussion is sponsored 
by the Holy Family Catholic 
Worker House. 

welcomes Observer alumni to campus. We thank you all for the contributions you made to this 
newspaper. 
We also would like to extend our thanks to Shirley Grauel, our Office Manager, and Ron Baumgartener and the staff at The Papers. Finally, we appreciate our faithful ·advertisers and readers The Observer could not exist without you. 

~--~-~ ~---~~---------~-----.._...­
The Observer 

Friday, November 1,1991 

Quintet will perform Mozart 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame String Trio and two guest artists will perform the complete Mozart string quintets in a pair of concerts at 8 p.m. on Nov. 7 and 2 p.m. on Nov. 10 in Washington Hall. 
The concert is the culmina­tion of Notre Dame's commem­oration of the 200th anniver­sary of Mozart's death. General admission for each concert is $5 and $2 for students and se­nior citizens. Tickets may be 
AT AZAR'S 
Now that you've danu!d 

the night away, you need to satisfy those midnight 
munch1es. So check out the new LATE NITE menu at Azar·s. 
' 
It features lots of great food at great prices: 
• 
Five Fluffy Omelettes 

• 
Six Moonlight Breakfasts 

• 
Four Starlight Sandwiches 

• 
Eight Dreamy Desserts 

• 
More than 10 other Sides and Beverages 


The next time you·re not quite to call it a mght, heao to the nearest Azar's Big Boy Family 
Restaurant lor the all­new LATE NITE menu. tame the Midnight Munchies. 
AF'g· 
Big Boy 
Family Reslauranls 
purchased at the door or ob­tained in advance by. calling 239-6201. 
The Notre Dame String Trio consists of three faculty mem­bers from the University's music department, violinists Carolyn Plummer and Christine Rutledge and cellist Karen Bu­ranskas. To form a quintet they will be joined by violinist Mari­lyn McDonald from the Oberlin Conservatory and violist Kathryn Plummer from Van­derbilt University. 
Carolyn Plummer, associate professor of music, previously held the title of assistant con­certmaster of the Houston 
Orchestra and was a ent soloist with the sym­phony. 
Rutledge, assistant professor music, is Notre Dame's most cent addition to the string faculty. She was the former stant principal of the isville Orchestra. uranskas, associate professor f music, has made solo 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 

appearances in Japan, South America, Europe and the U.S. 
McDonald, professor of violin at Oberlin Conservatory, is the principal violinist of the Smith­sonian Chamber Players and a founding member of the Smith­son String Quartet and Castle Trio. 
She has recorded for the Vox, Smithsonian, Gasparo, and Decca labels, among others. Her recent release of Beethoven Piano Trios received the 1991 chamber music award for ex­cellence from British Recording Retailers. 
Kathryn Plummer is a profes­sor at the Blair School of Music at Vanderbilt University. After studying at Indiana University and the Julliard School of Mu­sic, she was assistant principal violist with the Cincinnati Sym­phony Orchestra. 
In 1987, she gave the world premier performance of Alan Shulman's "Variations for Viola, Harp and Strings" at the XIV International Viola Congress. 
WHAT IF YOU 
DON'T GO 

INTO THE KHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure. I here are other schools. Bul why seltle? Kaplan prep courses help sludenls raise Iheir scores and their chances of beingadmilted inlotheir first-choice schools. Fad is. noone has helped sludents score higher! 
PLEASE RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
C~IDA 
,.VV..STERPIECE
ATKinl«l'S 
99~COLOR
coP>'SAlE 
fREE Ct:JPYDAY 
NovEft\BER UJ 
All in the family 

Saint Mary's juniors performing in "The Sound of Music" take a Van Trapp family portrait including all the children, the captain, aria and Mother Superior. 
; '1111!1111'''11!111l1'''111l111''''11!11ll''''llll11!1'''111l111''''111l111''''111l111'''1111!1111'1 
=: otre = 
~ ame ; 
~ ncounter 
a 

t ~
AWEEKEND 
~-RETREAT EXPERIENCE ~­
~ GUIDED BY ~ 
~-STUDENTS, FACULTV & STAFF ::3_­
~ An opportunlly, In dlelogue whh olhere, lo deepen your ~ 
-underelendlng ol youreell, your velun, your releUonehlp ~­~ wllh Chrlet, your experience of Chrlellen communlly end eervlce. 
~ ~!~::~r ~
November 22-24, 1991
! :~~;:.~"'' IOct. 28-Nov. 4, 19911 4 
~ CONTACT· Cempue Mlnlelry Office ::3 _ . 103 Heeburgh Llb111ry '3 
~ "''" :::::--0MIUS ~ 
:.. MINISTRY -= 
~lllilllilli illilllillilllllli!h,llllillilhllllillllhilill.llillllll1illllllll11llilllllllilliJIIII 
DIDN'T WORJ\.Pf?DFESSOR 
SAID I HAD NO TALENT. 
t<·ft~S-71-ffCOPYCfNTER·/8/87 STAT[ RD.23 (2l'J)Z71-0318 ·fREE COPIES ).XJJ.20 • COMPI..ETf 'DE~ILS AT SfORf 
The Observer

page 10 
Introducing... the Macintosh Classic II 
Based on our fastest-selling Macintosh® model ever, the Apple® Macintosh Classic® II personal computer extends the capabilities of the Macintosh Classic-so you get all of the advantages associated with Macintosh computers in a higher performance, affordable package. You'll find that your applications run more than twice as fast on the Classic II as they do on the original Classic-yet it still takes just minutes to set up and use the Classic II. 
This weekend come over to Stepan Center and get acquainted with the new Macintosh Classic II. Representatives of Apple Computer will be available to answer any questions you may have. If you like what you see, computer store personnel will be present to help you place your order. Alimited supply of Classic ll's will be available at the expo for immediate delivery. 



Stepan Center Friday, November 1 Saturday, November 2 Sunday, November 3 12pm-Spm Sam -12pm lOam-3pm 
© 1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark used under license by Apple Computer, Inc 

----------~­

----.---~--~--~--~--~------------------------~-----·--­
Friday, November 1,1991 The Observer page 11 
Pan Am airlines surrenders routes in bankruptcy deal 
NEW YOHK (API-This is the  rier in the late 1920s, when  
1~nd  of Pan American World  But it won't be anything like  crowds would gather at county  
Airways as  millions of people  the Pan Am that inaugurated so  fairs to watch daredevils fly  
knnw it.  many things  - the first sched­ open cockpit planes.  
Thn airlinn that pionnered in­ uled passenger flights  across  Pan Am grew into the global  
tnrnational air travel surren­ the oceans, the first to use the  carrier that flew kings and  
dnrs its last big chunk or over­ Boeing 707 and the 7 4 7. Pan  queens, performed the Berlin  
snas turf Friday. Jets bearing  Am even  used to envision ser­ airlift and evacuated civil war  
tlw famous blue ball logo will  vice to the moon.  refugees.  
l.akn ofT for the last time from  "They built the second-best  
29 points in Westnrn Europe,  But it was brought do-wn by  name known worldwide, after  
thn Soviet Union, India, Israel  ail"line deregulation in 1978,  Coca-Cola," said George James,  
and Turkey.  which let more efficient com­ chairman of Airline Economics  
Dnlta Air !.inns will take over  petitors take control of the in­ Inc..  a Washington-based avia­ 
most of thosn routes, under a  dustry.  tion consulting firm.  
deal  struck  in  Pan  Am's  "It's kind of a joke to call it  Much of the early service was  
bankruptcy case  that makes  Pan American World Airways  on "flying boats," which took ofT  
I>nlta a global airline super­ now," said Laura Valenti,  a  and landed on water. Trippe  
power along with American Air­ former Pan Am flight attendant,  saw aviation as an extension of  
lines and United Airlines.  laid off in September in one of  sea travel, so he christened his  
Pan  Am  will  survive  as  a  the carrier's final cutbacks.  planes Pan Am clippers and  
drastically smaller  airline,  "We're not circling the globe  used other nautical terms.  
ownnd by Delta and Pan Am's  any more."  Because of Trippe's influence.  
crnditors. It will  move from  Others say it's good to see the  most airline pilots  are  still  
Nnw York to  Miami and con­ former unofficial U.S. flagship  called captains.  
centrate Amnrica.  on  serving  Latin  carrier keep flying. "I think it's a nice way for Pan Am to fade out, if you will," said  But now, the "class and cal­iber" of old aviation is history, Lyon said.  No tricks, all treats  The Observer/Marguerite Schropp  
Thosn involved in the largest transfer of international routes say at least Pan Am will keep flying.  Pan Am pilot Mike Lyon, who will now fly for Delta. A young entrepreneur named Juan Trippe launched the car­ "First class -people get on with hair curlers, whereas be­fore, if it wasn't a tuxedo, it was a suit," he said.  South Bend children were invited to trick-or-treat in Saint Mary's residence Halls last night. Here junior Kim Simons offers some goodies to children in Holy Cross Hall.  

sEtDhiTV BEA I 'TUESDAY, OCT. 29 WEDNESDAY,OCT 30 3:53 p.m. An off·campus student reported 
1:10 p.m. A Barrington, Illinois residant the theft of several items from his locked
7:51 a.m. Notre Dame Seourity and Fire 12:45 a.m. Two Zahm residents were
MONDAY, OCT. 28 reported vandalism to his car which was car which was parked in the C-1 student
Department treated a WNOU employee robbad at gunpoint off·campus In the 900 
8:25 a.m. A University faculty member parked in the Red East parking lot. lot.
who suffered chest pains and assisted in block of Notre Dame Avenue. Neither of 
reported the possible theft of his desk 7:09 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident re· 5:08 p.m. A Notre Dame Security Officer
transporting the victim to the St. Joseph's the studf!nls was injured In any way.
chair from his office in Fitzpatrick Engi­ported the theft of his student football transported an Injured Fisher Hall resident
Emergency Room. 7:45 a.m. Due to his observed reckless neering Hall. The chair was later found in tickets from his room. 8:30 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident re~ driving, a Notre Dame Security Officer from the Rockne Memorial Building to the a graduate office. Student Health Center.
ported the theft of some compact discs advised M Indiana resident to be 
11:15 a.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported 9:06 p.m. A Knott Hall resident was from his dormitory. conscious of the driving safety rules of the 5:20 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident 
the theft of cash from her unattended treated by Notre Dame Fire Department reported the theft of his license plate from
8:45 p.m. A Badin Hall resident report~Jd university.backpack. The theft occurred in either the for illness. receiving harassing phone calls. 8:00 a.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported the D-6 student parking lot. 
Hesburgh Library or South Dining HaiL 5:43 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident reported
3:20 p.m. Notre Dame Security Issued the theft of his locked bike from outside his
9:18 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported the theft of her unattended purse from the
11 :54 a.m. An off-campus student Trel!pass Notices to a Michigan and a d(lrmitory.
reported the theft of her locked bike from the theft Of his license plate from his car Rockne Memorial Building.
P$nnsylvania resident who were Illegally 9:35 a.m. A University employe& reported
Stepan Chemistry Center. The thafl which was parked in the D-6 student 8:01 p.m. Notre Dame Security and Fire
soliciting on campus. the possible theft of a vacuum cleaner 
12:56 P.M. ANotre Dame Sacurity Officer 11:25 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident raported resident at the JACC and assisted In her 
occurred between Oct. 20 and Oct. 28. parking lot. 11:21 p.m. ANotre Dame Security Officer from Walsh Hall. Department treated an ill South Bend transported an Injured P. W. resident from 3:25 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported
1ssued a Trespass Notice to a South Bend she received a harassing telephone calL transport to Memorial Hospital.
the Student Health Center to the St. the theft ot his bike rack from his vehicle resident who was attempting to dump Joseph's Medical Center. which was parked In the 0·2 student 9:21 p.m. A Breen-Phlllips resident 
some tree limbs on University property. reported the theft of some jewelry from her 
parking lot. 

room. 


. 

<88£ i!XCITING 
PRODUCT8 PftQM) 
RIIIIS 1111 Lotus
-

Clilris "lcrosott 
Denen NeXT 
DTH Sqmantec 
EIJJo Prictna Oiscounrs
WordPertect 

Viewpoint 
page 12 Friday, November 1, 1991 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ••••••.•...•..••.•..•••Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor...•••••••..•....•Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .••••••• Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ....•••..•..... David Dieteman Production Manager .•..•...•.••Jay Colucci Accent Editor ......•..•....•.••.• John O'Brien Systems Manager ••...........•.. Mark Sloan Photo Editor ••, ........ Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..•....•...........•. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor •.......•..• Emily Willett Controller ••..........••••....• Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor,. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression Gf varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
Humorous T-shirts not trying to offend or harass women 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to respond to the chauvinist club shirt "harassment" article (The Ob­server, Oct. 30). The shirt is a joke. It is supposed to be funny. Guys who wear the shirt don't feel that women are lower than them, and not equal to them. They wear it because they see humor in it. 
If you do not share this humor, don't laugh, but don't get offended. Did you get offended when you first saw the "Stanford Studs" t-shirt that showe"d a huge guy grabbing a woman in his hand like he had complete control over her? You should not, it is not meant to be taken literally. 
Least of all should you be la­beling this harassment. I think that there is a real problem with harassment today and that the Thomas trial has also had some harmful effects. A few women now have this idea that anything they do not nec­essarily agree with or like is harassment. How can you be harassed by a slogan? 
The Webster definition of ha­rassment requires that you be annoyed persistently, not of­fended once by a saying. These people are not parading this shirt in front of your dorm room and following you everywhere you go. 
DOONESBURV 
Du Lac's definition of discrim­inatory harassment is physical conduct inflicting injury; an in­tentional threat of inflicting in­jury; a hostile, intentional, and persistent badgering; or a ver­bal attack intended to provoke the victim to immediate physi­cal retaliation. 
This shirt falls under none of these categories. You are tak­ing advantage of the word ha­rassment by slapping it on ev­ery action and item that offends you. 
You say he was infringing on your civil liberties. His opinions cannot infringe upon your civil liberties unless he imposes them on you. If someone truly infringes upon the civil liberties of someone else they are either fined or put in jail. Should we lock up this guy for wearing his shirt? 
Lastly, you say that the "women of this campus should have the right to peaceful exis­tence." I agree with this, but this peace is put under a tremendous strain when every­thing in the male population does is continuously under vi­cious and undeserved attack by a few women who think they are trying to obtain "peaceful existence." 
Bill Stoval Flanner Hall 
Oct. 30, 1991 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Japan's trade policies call for action 
Dear Editor: 

All of the "experts" have al­ready crowned Japan as the next world leader and most people in the West seem all too willing to passively let this hap­pen. First, they should examine the facts and prepare them­selves for the future they are letting themselves in for. 
Business and economics op­erate very differently in Japan. Forget the Communist coun­tries; ·since 1954, Japan has had the world's most controlled economy with the Japanese "miracle" being tightly orches­trated by the Ministry of Inter­national Trade and Industry (MITI). 
MITI is in charge of all re­search and development under­taken by Japanese corpora­tions, telling them exactly what to invest in and providing sub­sidies and equipment to make sure that they succeed. Of course, MITI also arranges an elaborate series of visible and invisible trade barriers to en­sure that there is no competi­tion from abroad. 
Once the necessary technology is ready, MITI plans the inva­sion of the Western markets. Dumping, illegal subsidies and payoffs and even industrial es­pionage have been used by the Japanese to gain access to Western markets. 
These sinister tactics have led to the virtual elimination of the 
U.S. tep..l~:;.-;-..;;:;.:.:.;;:,~-.,;:;.o:.;.~ 
electronics industries and the decline of the American auto, steel, and machine tool indus­tries. Dozens of others have also been hit and many more, especially supercomputers and aircraft, are being marked for the future. 
U.S. companies must compete against each other in addition to the rest of the world. Not so in Japan. MITI carves up the home market and the world for each of its companies which also has the effect of squeezing out small entrepreneurs since more competition would upset the balance it has arranged. With their home market se­cured by MlTI's barriers, Japanese companies can ag­gressively assault the rest of the world. 
Collusion is rampant among Japanese banks, companies and the government. All three work in close coordination to plan Japan's economic future. They are attempting to create the Greater East Asian Co-Prosper­ity Sphere which they failed to do in 1941. 
The scary thing is that they are succeeding. The growing economies of East Asia seem to be falling more and more under the Japanese wing and their products flow unabated into the West where the Japanese exploit their free market poli­cies. 
We must not sit still any 
immediate, decisive action on the part of the President and Congress. The Structural Im­pediments Initiative (SII) is go­ing much too slowly and every day of delay the Japanese pour more cars and TVs into Amer­ica and buy up even more U.S. real estate and companies. MITI would never allow for­eigners to buy a major Japanese firm. 
T. Boone Pickens was the largest single shareholder of Koito Auto Parts with a 20% holding. He was continually denied a board seat and was cornered by the Japanese auto makers and their Zaibatsu (cartel) system. They forced Koito to sell parts only to them and at artificially low prices. Disgusted, he sold his shares last spring and returned to the 
U.S. determined to keep fighting the Japanese. 
We need a concrete set of tariffs, penalties. and ~specially import quotas to combat Japan and other illegal tactics and to save ourselves from becoming economically overwhelmed. There is no time to lose. We must act now or it will be too late. 
If the Japanese and the Ger­mans had won World War II, would they be buying Fords, Chevys and Zeniths? Think about that. 
Jeff 0' Donnell Grace Hall 

~~~~~~~~L-----~~t. 24,1991 
t1X¥<, JOAN!!?, AU-OUR 
51~ 010WAS PlAY A UTTJ.,& HARIJ£3yqU.! 11/~R£ AU. 816/30YS HeRe... '30 
TO PEW<! Hel3,Het3! 
I 
OOPS ... I 7DU01/30 YaJ ON TH8 5HOU/.JJf.R! I 
OVt-Y M#WT IT AS A FRJIJNI?t-Y 613STUR&, BlfT IT c:aJW HAV& !3f5tN 
MISCONfiTRUe&J.' 
I 

... OVeR. fJRJNKS, 
54Y2 
HA,HA! YUKI YUI<! I 
~/AJHO
/)//} 'fOlJR 
{,.{)B(JTOMY, 
YOUR PAPeR 
/30Y~ \ 

'To uncover the truth and report it accurately. This is our purpose. This is our goal.' 
The first editors of The Observer 1966 
I am the god ofhell fire, submit! 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewl)oint
Friday, November 1, 1991 page 13 
Can autobiography of Malcolm X help Thomas? 

fact he has already, but which the past ten years he has acted while brushing my teeth, he might have forgotten about." a heck of a lot more like Jesse made a decision. 
The "Bill of Rights"? Helms than like Malcolm X. But First thing next morning, 
"No. I sent him a copy of The maybe we haven't seen the last went down to my favorite Autobiography of Malcolm X. installment in the life history of bookstore and bought a copy of And on the card I wrote, 'Dear Clarence Thomas." The Autobiography of Malcolm Justice Thomas. Congratula­Wishful thinking, I said. X. I bought a greeting card. I tions. Do the right thing.' Then wrote on it, "Dear Clarence instead of signing my own "Maybe, but maybe not," Dex Thomas. Congratulations. Do name, I signed it 'Malcolm.'" replied. "Listen, Malcolm X the right thing. Malcolm X." I 
I thought that was a great went through a number of put the book and the card in a idea, and I told Dex so. But you changes in his life, and maybe manilla envelope which I then know, I also said, he isn't too by reminding Clarence Thomas took down to the post office. likely to take that kind of thing of this, it will help him recon­Who knows? Maybe Dex has to heart. sider just what he has let him­started a movement. 
"Don't be so sure," Dex ad­self become these last few vised me. "You know, when years." Andrew Cutrofello is a profes­Clarence Thomas was in college Mter I'd hung up the phone, I sor in philosophy at Saint he had a poster of Malcolm X thought for a long time about Mary's College. His columns on his wall. Now granted, for what Dex had said. Finally, will appear every other Friday. 
American capitalism is not a failure 
Dear Editor: dates under 100+ degree couple hundred bucks in unem­
weather in Indio (Hell on ployment benefits to all the 
Poverty does not prove Earth), California by day and unemployed millions at a Capitalism is a failure. waitressed at night, until she tremendous cost to tax-payers Economic disparity only proves moved north to good old San like my parents, thus restricting that some people do more to Jose. Now, my parents are fi­their ability to help others? If improve their condition. How nancially stable enough to be on anything, the nicest unem­do I know this? From my the verge of starting their own ployment benefit Bush could mother and father, of course. business. give us is a tax break. I doubt if 
My parents immigrated from Besides their jobs, they are of this would ever happen since Mexico in the late sixties to set­"landowning" class in it's Congress' job to make Bush tle in San Jose, California. They California, and rent out two look bad. had absolutely nothing besides homes. This can only be at­David Brach errs egregiously a few belongings, some saved tributed to their determination in asserting that American cash, and their families (my and the opportunities offered in Capitalism is a failure. parents never met until they America, not to any supposed America's success rests on cre­attended the same English As A liberal remedy for America's ating an environment conducive Second Language course at San ills. to success for its people, not fi­Jose State). It's one of those"simple yet nancial equality. 
They confronted all kinds of complicated" things about living As my personal hero (and adversity including racism and in America. The opportunities hopefully the savior of the lost me as a kid. My father went six are there regardless of what Mexican-Americans who vote years without a steady job dur­one's condition may be. No Democratic) Rush Limbaugh ing the recession of the Democrat can deny the fact that always says, "Strive for excel­Seventies, until he found his these opportunities exist. lence, not equality." I would current job as a construction That's why hundreds of not be surprised if minorities, worker. Even during the reces­Mexican, South American, and such as us Mexican-Americans, sion, he could never let his Central American people cross begin to see through the lies pride stop him from working the Rio Grande every day. and fallacies of the liberal pre­any job he could get in order to Should my parents be held ac­scription for success in support two kids and pay for countable for other people's America. two mortgages, while my mom misfortunes, or, in many cases, This is one of many reasons worked as a secretary. sedentary lifestyles? Is there why "Cuomogogy" will fail in 
My father had every reason to any correlation between my '92. People are not fooled feel pride, and maybe a bit of parents' ability to survive in the anymore. Hence, twelve years "elitism" before coming to most expensive state in of a conservative White House, America. He did extremely well America and the homeless? and four more coming soon. studying chemistry in the sec­Should my parents be im­There is a better way to serve ondary school system in pugned by taxes because not humanity than to bring down Mexico, he worked as an inte­everyone has health insurance? the entire population with tax gral part of a pharmacy in his It's not that my parents are burdens. Or, are the Democrats home town of Zacatecas, and he heartless and don't care about really interested in serving was bound for college to further the miseries of others. On the humanity? I certainly hope that his studies in chemistry. contrary, they do everything David Brach's ominous threat of 
However, his parents had they can to help those in need, Americans ·"realizing" other plans for a future in besides struggling relatives. American Capitalism as a America, and he obeyed their The sad thing is that time and failure will never happen. wishes. One can only imagine time again they are disap­Adios amigos and I bid you how humiliating it was for him pointed by those who do not farewell. to work the dirtiest jobs in wish to do anything for them­California. My mother faced selves, though, thank God, this Edgar Macias Acosta 
Andrew Cutrofello Subterranean Homesick Politics 
The other day, I decided to ring up my friend Dex, whom I hadn't seen for some time. Dex is an old college buddy who now works for a legal aid firm in Chicago. 
This was the night after the Clarence Thomas confirmation vote. Not surprisingly, we got to speculating about what sort of impact the Court's newest judge might have on the country. 
I asked Dex if he agreed with those who say Thomas is noth­
ing but a right-wing extremist who will probably help reverse every major decision protecting the rights of individuals. "Well, I don't know," Dex said, "but guess what I did today?" 
"What?" 
"I mailed Clarence Thomas a card congratulating him." 
Knowing Dex is a strong sup­porter of civil rights legislation, I naturally wondered why he would congratulate the man who many are saying will "turn back the clock" on civil rights issues. 
"Well, I also mailed him a little present," Dex added. "Something which I know for a 

Catholic teachings condemn any homosexual inclinations 
Dear Editor: 
An Oct. 8th letter argued that Notre Dame should officially recognize homosexual student groups. The letter stated that "the Church does not condemn homosexuality as such, or ho­mosexual inclinations; [but] it condemns homosexual actions. And since not all persons with homosexual tendencies are sexually active, the letter con­cludes that recognizing such groups would crP-ate no doctri­nal conflict. 
The initial premise is, how­ever, incorrect. The Catholic Church does "condemn" the homosexual inclination itself. While the letter accurately rP-states the Vatican Declaration on Sexual Ethics' teaching that, "homosexual acts are intrinsically disordered and can in no case be approved of." (no.8, 1975); it, however, completely disregards the equally authoritative contents of the Letter on Homosexuality issues by the Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith in 1986. 
This document expressly de­nies that the Church's earlier condemnation of homosexual acts in the Declaration some­how implied approval of neu­trality toward the homosexual disposition Itself: "An overly benign interpretation was given to the homosexual condition it­self, some going as far as to call it neutral, or even good. 
"Although the particular incli­nation of the homosexual per­son is not a sin, it is a more or less strong tendency toward an intrinsic moral evil; and thus the inclination itself must be seen as an objective disorder. Therefore, special con­cern...should be directed to­wards those who have this con­dition, lest they be led to believe that the living out of this orien­tation in homosexual activity is a morally acceptable option. It is not." (no. 3) 
This church teaching implies that some persons may find themselves with a homosexual orientation without any per­sonal responsibility for creating it, and are thus free from moral guilt for having the tendency. But this does not mean that the tendency is neutral or good in itself. Instead the Church still considers the homosexual tendency an "objective disorder." 
With this teaching naturally meets with opposition from many individuals in favor of homosexual groups, the posi­tion is at least consistent. For to condemn certain acts without condemning the material source of those acts would be superficial and arbitrary. 
Yet, regardless of whether one accepts the Church's position or not, Notre Dame's discussion of homosexual groups, if it is to be honest, should not be prejudiced by the mistaken be­lief that official Catholic teach­ing views the homosexual con­dition as moral neutral or good. It does not. 
Edward Lyons Off-Campus/Oct. 30, 1991 

Options for Homosexuals 
Dear Editor: elusively homosexual). 
One manner in which Mr. Sadly, the vast literature on Michael Yore and other ho­this topic has been largely ig­
mophile leaders (The Observer, nored by leaders of homophile Oct. 14) could be of invaluable organizations. This neglect has assistance to man by homosex­not had benign consequences. uals is by publicizing the fact It is my sincere hope that Mr. that the homosexual orientation Yore and other leaders in the is changeable. homosexual community not 
Many homosexuals are un­abandon many of their homo­happy with their sexual orien­sexual siblings to lifestyles that tation and desire change, but many of them deeply desire. repeatedly have been told that A first step in this direction this option is not open to them. would be to stop perpetuating On the contrary, numerous misinformation about the na­strategies developed by psy­ture and stability of homosexu­chotherapists and church and ality, but instead to allow ho­para-church organizations have mosexuals the freedom to been successfully employed to choose for themselves the form effect permanent sexual of life that they wish to lead by orientation change (even for educating them about options those approximately 2% of currently available to them. American males and 1% of A.A. Howseplan, M.D. American females who are ex-Off-Campus /Oct. 16, 1991 


NOVEMBER 1-3 


weekend calendar 
MUSIC Dutch Treat, Club Shenanigan's, 10 p.m. A Band Called Bob, Sneakers, 10 p.m. Web of Lies, Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m. 
EVENTS Glee Club Fall Concert, Washington Hall, 8 p.m. Casino Night Under the Dome, West Wing of South Dining Hall, 8-11 p.m. Homecoming Parade, Comer of Eddy and Howard 4p.m. 

MUSIC 
Web of Lies, Midway Tavem, 9:30 p.m. Dutch Treat, Club Shenanigans, 1 0 p.m. 
EVENTS 
Autograph Session, North Dome of JACC, 2 p.m. Parents' Dessert Reception, South Dining Hall NO vs Navy, Notre Dame Stadium, 4 p.m. 
s y 

EVENTS 
Plano Concert, by William Cerny, Snite Museum of Art, 2p.m. 

FRIDAY "Metropolitan," Annenburgh Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY "Metropolitan," Annenburgh Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "House Party II," 7:15 & 9:20p.m. "Ricochet," 7:10 & 9:10p.m. "Paradise," 7:40 & 9:50p.m. "The Super," 7:45 & 9:45p.m. "Frankie &Johnny," 7 &9:25 p.m. 

By SHONDA WILSON 
Assistant Accent Editor 

A 
s a celebration of 150 years of the life of Notre Dame, the Sesquicentenni a! Student Activities Committee is bringing back a tradition that faded out 20 years ago: namely, the Notre Dame homecoming, which will be a long weekend of birthday celebration-student-style. 
Kicking off the celebration was the Halloween bash that took place last night in Stepan. In various states of dress, students partied hearty as they competed in costume contests and for door prizes. 
The antics will continue this evening with a parade of old and new Domers and friends of the University from the South Bend Community. 
Presiding over the processional as Grand Marshals will be Father Edward Malloy, President of the University, Father Theodore Hesburgh, President Emeritus, Father Edmund Joyce, Executive Vice President Emeritus and Rocky Bleier, '67 Captain of the Fightin' Irish. 
The lineup will include floats representing each dorm, says Katie Pamenter, Chairperson of the Homecoming Committee. "The main objective (of the Homecoming Committee) was to do something unique and include as many groups as possible," says Pamenter. They seem to have succeeded. 
Although each dorm will be represented, there will not be one float for each dorm. The dorms have been divided up into two's or three's to combine funds and efforts. 
According to Michelle Osmanski, the Siegfried representative, Siegfried, Pangborn and Keenan float workers are really excited about the parade. The 20­strong group is at work getting together costumes and plans. A sneak preview of the Siegfried­Pangborn-Keenan float will be on display for the first time at the homecoming parade. It includes the ND football field in three-D effect. With all the works, from Touchdown Jesus, to the ever-present blimp, Osmanski's crew seems ready to take on any competition. 
The Alumni -Breen-Phillips team seem to be ready to provide that competition, even though they are taking the building-process one day at a time. According to Brian Bird, the Alumni representative, the float building is "pretty neat. This is the first time we've ever done anything like this." Although they have plans for the float, everything is kind of questionable as to what the fi­nal result will be, says Bird. 
Well, the time for results is al­most near. The parade will begin at 4 p.m. at the 
Rekindling an old tradition 
intersection of Eddy and Howard Streets. 
The cash prize of $1500 per dorm (or $1200 per dorm for a team of three dorms) for the float competition will be based on creativity, originality, ap­pearance and theme. 
Other participants in the parade will include the South Bend Police Department, St. Joseph medical Center, Saint Mary's, several members of the ND Alumni Association, and various other on-and off­campus organizations. 
The parade will end as the ND Marching Band leads its audience and the other participants into the stadium for the pep rally. The master of ceremonies for tonight's pep rally will be none other than the Leprechaun, himself, Junior Dan Wagner. He will announce the winner of the float contest. 
Also appearing will be another symbol of ND football, Head Coach Lou Holtz. He, along with a few football players (whose names could not be disclosed), will pep up the crowd with inspiring words. 
Bleier will also serve as a guest speaker at the pep rally. This ND legend fought in the Vietnam War and returned with a leg wound so bad that doctors said he would never play football again. This same fellow went on to make All-American with the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
He is not the only one with the charge of nudging the football players toward victory. The cheerleaders as well as the porn pon squad will perform musical routines to get the crowd charged. 
The night will end with fireworks, waking up the sleeping skies with a cele­bration of ND tradition. 
But the celebration does not stop there. It will continue on Saturday with pre-and post­game activities. At 2 p.m. the Monogram Club members of past football teams will hold an autograph session in the North Dome of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. With 7 5 to 100 former players expected . the signers should consist of players from as far back as the class of '30, who were under the direction of Former Coach Knute Rockne, says Pamenter. 
Providing the final course of this feast of activities is Student Government. Following the game, they will sponsor their annual Parents' Dessert Reception. Held in South Dining Hall, the multitude of desserts that could tempt even the most disciplined participant will be complimented by the performance of the Glee Club. A dollar donation for the spread of sweets will be appreciated to aid the work of the United Way. 
All of these activities developed by the Homecoming Committee will celebrate the sesquicentennial birthday of this University. 
Place 
By SHONDA WILSON 
Assistant Accent Editor 

I 
f you're walkin around South Dinin Hall tonight around p.m., you'll se luminarias decoratin the entrance of the dining hall. From the Southwestern tradition. the bags of sand holding a glowing candle will illuminate the route to fun and games at SUB's Casino Night 



15 

.... ,' \I '~ --.... ~1 
....._/ ',
---...... , ' 
..... ' ~ 
/'1\' ' 
I I ' \ 
I \ \ \ I 
, \ '
\ \\ ' 
\ 
\ \ 
' 
\ 
your bets on 
Undnr thn Dome. 
With !{ames like roulette, craps. blackjack. and the hi-lo wheel, Casino Night under the Dome will be like entering one of those classy casinos in Los Vegas or Atlantic City. llowever, there is one big exc1~ption: There is no chance of loosing any money. No one can loose because these games are free and open to all ND students and their parents. 
The only possibility is of 
winning so the odds are already in your favor. 
Winning, however, is not determined by your skills at the blackjack table. The winners are selected randomly through the drawings of ticket raffles. Winners receive gift certificates which were donated by such establishments as Happy House, Papa Johns, Spaghetti Works, King Giros, and Pepe's. 
The Spedal Events Committee 
By LEHIA FRANKLIN 
Accent Writer 
I 
f you are walking in LaFortune Saturday night and it sounds like the floor in Theodore's is about to crash down on your head, don't worry. It's only the women of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. and the men of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. gettin' down at the Homecoming Stepshow sponsored by the Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC). 
On Saturday, the BCAC will be holding a homecoming dance which will feature these groups performing the first Greek Stepshow to be held at the University of Notre Dame. 
What are Alpha Kappa Alpha and Alpha Phi Alpha? Both repre­sent traditional institutions in the African-American community. Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. was the first African-American Greek-letter organization formed in this country. It was founded at Howard University in 1908, and since then, it has been dedicated to s.ervice, scholarship, and sisterhood. 
In South Bend, undergraduate members are in the process of forming a city chapter, which will include young women from the Indiana University at South Bend, Notre Dame, and Saint Mary's communities. Members participate in several service projects that fulfill the national organization's service targets, says Kara Keeling, Alpha Kappa Alpha member. 
It is the same focus on service that motivates and binds the men of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. This group has the distinction of being the first African-American Greek-letter organization for undergraduate men, and was founded at Cornell University in 1906. Brothers of Alpha from Tau Chapter, University of Illinois,Champaign-Urbana, will be performing Saturday. 
Both organizations exist to serve their communities, but they also exist to foster sisterhood and brotherhood in their members. And a manifestation of these social outlets has been the evolution of the stepshow. 
What exactly is a stepshow? It is ....,.._J almost impossible to give a correct written explanation, but a 
of the Student Union Board ) is night spots of big city life. working hard on decorations to ''I'm excited (about Casino provide as much authenticity as Night)," says Creedon. ''I'm also possible considering they are very nervous about it. With all working with South Dining Hall, that's going on this weekend, says Meghan Creedon of the I'm a little concerned." Special Events Committee. Creedon's concern seems 
valid with the Glee Club 
With a black and white motif, concert taking place during the decorations. which include Casino Night. However, she oversized cards and dice and expects a large crowd to come tables that lights up, will to Casino Night after the relocate students from the small concert as Casino Night lasts town action of ND to the hot until 11 p.m. "I'll be more 
Steppin' at NO 
stepshow is basically an exhibition of choreographed steps, struts, chants, songs, and dance moves. 
Unique to black sororities and fraternities, "stepping" evolved from competitfon among pledge lines to look the sharpest on "the yard" (campus). Each group's pledge line would strive to perform all the chants, routines, and songs that their big brothers and sisters had them learn better than their rivals. 
These steps were showcased at pledgee exhibition shows, and eventually became major campus social events which involved members from different Greek groups. Popular examples of this have been seen in Spike Lee's film, "School Daze," and the television show, "A Different World." 
Feet. hands. and canes are used to tap out and keep the beat while chants and songs about the virtues of one's group and the vices of rivals are told. Several vignettes are acted out, with full use of the­atrics and props. 
Stepping has African origins, as do most expressions of contemporary African-American culture. These origins are illustrated with the careful attention paid to building and maintaining an intricate "bottom," or beat, while other rhythms are added. 
As members of the step team perform their individual routines, layers upon layers of beat and rhyme combine to produce one melodious sound. Each fraternity and sorority is known for particular steps, struts, and calls, all of which are incorporated into shows and used at parties. For example, Alpha Kappa Alpha is known for its use of the phrase "Skee Wee," while Alpha Phi Alpha is know for its use of "A Phi." 
Perhaps the best way to write an explanation of a stepshow is to extend an invitation to one. So, come on out and enjoy a homecoming party and a stepshow extraordinare as the ladies of Alpha Kappa Alpha and their brothers of Alpha Phi Alpha "Skee Wee" and "A Phi" the night away. 
The party is from 10 p.m. until 2 
a.m. and the show starts promptly at Midnight. Get there early, because it's only two bucks until 12 a.m. and three thereafter. 
.·

Casino Night 
exited when it (Casino Night) is 
over and has been a success." 
she says. 
Despite her fear of a lack of 
student participation, Creedon's -· 
sure Casino Night will be a 
success considering that it was 
a hit last year. 
Be one of the lucky ones, 
experience that success and 
win. But as they say, you can't 
win if you don't attend. So be at 
the west wing of South Dining 
Hall between 8 and 11 p.m. 
page 16 The Observer Friday, November 1, 1991 
Anniversary reflections from a senior columnist 
Father Robert Griffin 
letters to a Lonely God 
I've been writing for The Observer since the summer of 1970, which was the summer after Woodstock, in the year I set up housekeeping with Darby O'Gill, my first cocker spaniel. The student priests, nuns, and brothers here then were drunk with the spirit of the Renewal that came after Vatican II; com­pared to most of them, I was old even then. 
Adopting a footloose style of writing, I wanted to show the campus I was young at heart. I remember being attacked as a curmudgeon for the article which described the Sisters "hustling their way to the Motherhouse for their community's production of 'Hair'." That column is still cir­culated as proof that Griffin is lukewarm about the New Breed of nuns who earned Master's degrees in theology, after five years of summer school at Notre Dame. 
The truth is, I felt sad for the nuns, once I realized how long they had been denied simple pleasures that would have made them happy. One evening, I encouraged a middle-aged sister to take off the veil covering her head, which she always wore. 
"What would be the harm of it?" I asked. 
She said: "Word will travel back to the convent. The older women may be upset." An hour later, she came back, bare­headed. "This is the first time in over twenty years," she said, "that I've felt the wind blowing my hair." The thrill of it made her face shine like a girl's. 
Later, when I wore a necktie instead of a dog collar for the first time in many years, I felt I had gone back in time to when I was a college lad. 
Remembering that sister's face, I was glad I had encouraged her to experience those first rapturous moments of feeling born-free. 
Emily Dickinson wrote a poem that comes to mind as often as I finish a Friday's column. "This my letter to the World/That never wrote to Me-" 
It's not really true to say that the world I write letters to never answers. Once, long ago, I received a marriage proposal from the widowed mother of six children. Her words were: "I just read your Observer article in praise of parenting. How would you like to try your hand as the father of my brood, not as a surrogate or as an ersatz uncle, but as the head fella in charge?" 
The question I had to ask my­self was: "Did she want me as a person, or as a meal ticket?" Unable to make up my mind, I didn't favor her with an inter­view; and I think that was wise. How marriageable could a woman be, if she was desperate enough to accept me as a hus­band? 
Why "Letters to a LONELY God"? Once, in a burst of whimsy, I wrote an article on the theology of God's loneliness, which asked the question, "Is God lonely?" The answer I de­cided on was: "Even as a Trinity, why should He be different?" The piece was included in the first collection of my Observer columns that the Paulist Press published as a book which I called "In the Kingdom of the Lonely God". 
A year later, when the Features Editor asked me to give him a title for my columns, I suggested, off the top of my head, "Letters to a Lonely God," How did they know that Manhattans are like mother's milk to me, and the name of my dog? "Our son/daughter is a student at Notre Dame. He/She sends home The Observer." 
A year and a half ago, after twenty years of writing Observer articles faithfully every week, I dreamed of being rewarded with a gold watch, engraved with my name and the apprQpriate dates, as a reward for services rendered; to tell you the truth, a Timex or Mickey Mouse would also have been acceptable. But when the end of the year came, there was no Rolex, Timex, or Mickey Mouse anywhere in sight. 
I knew then that I would have to survive until I have 25 years completed, to get my longed-for trophy. If I don't get a watch and a key to the washroom in three and a half years, I may say to The Observer chief, "Find yourself another boy." Or I may readjust my sights, and stay on for another quarter century, waiting for the pickings to get better. 
It's been a great honor, writing to the campus year after year. I'm grateful to all the great Observer staffs I have known, for all their many kindnesses to me. I can't begin to tell you how any kinds of fulfillment that have come to me from from writing "Letters to a Lonely God." I can't start to count how many thousands of cigarettes I have smoked on the days I wrote columns. I'm happy that Darby O'Gill II, who was replaced by Darby O'Gill III a month ago, didn't die from the side stream effects. 
None of my Darbies or I ever said we didn't love vou. 

hoping to find a better title after reflection. The "letters" I had in mind were not the "Dear John" kind of thing, but the letters of the alphabet which form words which form sentences that I could offer God like a prayer. Once I grew used to the idea of describing God as lonely, I realized that the theol­ogy of God's loneliness could go deeper than whimsy, provided one were a professional, and not a rank amateur who has fun trying to write imaginative myths about Mother Goose. 
Why do I write for The Observer? For the only good reason that anyone writes, aside from money: "Ego, pure ego." Actually, the response I received from my weekly articles is hardly enough to keep my ego from dying of malnutrition. Often the only way I can tell if a column has been read is when I see that a letter has been published say­ing how misguided I am. 
How misguided can I be when I offer the opinion that a two­months old fetus is not yet a child, but genetic material in via, programmed to become a child? Cardinal O'Connor in New York got in trouble with the Jews when he called the deaths by abortion a holocaust. The Jews said: "There is a world of difference between killing a six-year old child, able to walk on his two legs to a gas chamber, and the killing of an embryo, so insubstantial in appearance, it would be flushed down the toilet after a miscarriage . 

The Jews have a point; but who wants to get into a hissing contest with zealots, answerable only to God, who find fulfillment in carrying placards that declare, "Abortion is murder," meaning always and everywhere? 
Sometimes, after speaking my mind in The Observer, I'm at­tacked as a liberal. Truthfully, I'm about as liberal as the Baltimore Catechism. A true Catholic liberal shakes off the opinions of John Paul II and his defender of the faith, Cardinal Ratzinger, as though the pair of them were Calvin and Hobbes in the funny papers. 
The liberals at Notre Dame would laugh at the idea of me as a member of their club. What's so liberal about refusing to believe in the alleged visions at Medjugorje? Events there seem to be coalescing into a co­redemption, and that would erroneously call into question the sufficiency of the Cross. The idea of Mary emerging as the co-redemptrix leaves me uneasy, though I'm devoted to her as the Mother of the Church to whom I owe my Catholic faith. 
Over the years, I've ticked off many readers, and charmed a few. I've stepped off quite a few buses in strange towns, and met hosts and hostesses who said: "We have the makings for a Manhattan waiting for you at home. How is Darby O'Gill?" 

The Center for Social Concerns 
University of Notre Dame 
CALENDAR OF EVENTS (For information: 239-5293) 
Nov. 24-Sunday Urban Plunge Orientation 
Nov. 2 -Saturday Center open prior to Navy Game 4:00-6:30 p.m.
2:00-4:00 p.m. 
Nov. 3-5-The James F. Andrews Conference: Nov. 27-Wednesday World Hunger Coalition -Food basket 
Sunday -Tuesday Community Service through Alumni Networks (sponsored by CASE at CCE) 
distribution 
Nov. 8 -Friday Urban Plunge Registration Deadline Nov. 27-30 Thanksgiving Break Service Opportunities
12:15-1:00 p.m. Friday Forurn for faculty and staff-Theme: Wednesday-Saturday -L'Arche Seminar (Daybreak in Toronto) 
Notre Dame and Catholic Education in the 

-Chicago Sheller for the Homeless in a pluralistic society: a Catholic perspective" -Michael Himes U.S. -"Education for moral responsibility 
Dec. 4-Wednesday Summer Service Project Info Night Nov. 9 -Saturday Center open prior to Tennessee game 6:30-7:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. • 
Dec. 5 -Thursday Hospitality Lunch 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. 
Nov. 13-Wednesday CSC Advisory Board Meeting 
9:30 a.m.-2:00 p.m. 4:30p.m. Community Service Commissioners Meeting Dec. 6 -Friday Friday Forum for faculty and staff -Theme: Nov. 14-Thursday Community Service Commissioners 
12:15-1:00 p.m. Notre Dame and Catholic Education in the 
U.S. -"Why does the Catholic university 
4:30p.m. Meeting 
need philosophy?" -Alasdair Macintyre Nov. 21 -Thursday Fast for World Harvest Day sponsored by World Hunger Coalition and 1bird World Dec. 13 Last class day 
Relief Fund 

~ I
·­
-.-J\ I 
SESQUICENTENNIAL EVENT -During the University's Ses~uicentennial_ Year the Center is inviting alumni to speak in class~s offered by the .
--~-~Q. 
departments from which they graduated, and to meet more mformally With stu~ents ~d fa~ulty._ Th_e foc~s of the prese~tat10ns ~d c?nversauons
l.:tlld I 
is reflections about how their Notre Dame undergraduate or Law School expenence (m theu maJOr, m theu college and m the Umversuy as a whole) contributed to their living out the gospel call to love God and neighbor in their work-life, in particular, as well as in their life as a whole.
~~: 
~~--~----~­
page 17
The Observer 


I 
HOTEL ROOM available at DESPARATELY NEED 4 TENN NOlANA AUTO INSURANCE. Goober Control, NOTICES Signature Inn for Navy wkend GA'S. IF YOU HAVE ANY CALL Good rates. Save Money. Call me call Heather @277-6703 PAT X1767111 Need 2 UT-Notre Dame GA tickets for a quote 9:30-6:00, · We miss you! My life is once 
Nov. 9. Call (704) 541-8845. 289-1993. Office near campus.• again a nightmare without 
I will give YOU anything you your guidance. See you soon. TYPING AVAILABLE 
want if You give ME what I BIG BUCKSII 287-4082 
FOR SALE want-ANY TENN TIX I need two Tenn. G.A.'s and I Bachelor will pay $$$ and dinner to Goober Central 
Call BROOKE at x2240 will pay greatly for them. bachelorette for 2 Navy GA's. Steve Buy and Sell used books 
Call Chris at -1736. x2354
'83 Mercury Lynx Pandora 's Books-newbooks and Need 4 Navy GA's bad Good condition, sunroof the NY nmes tool! 
call Rich -1742 $$$ I need lots o' GA's for Navy HE'S JUST A MAN. corner of ND ave and Howard 
Will discuss price 
and Tenn. Call #3372 and ask for HE'S JUST ONE MORE. 
Call Karen @ 284-5050 233-2342/10-5:30 everyday 
Need two NAVY tix so my dear Aaron or leave message. $$$ Lando Loves little sister and her friend The Blond Assassins For Allah See ND in HawaiiIITERM PAPERS/RESUMES 
see their first ND football Need Tenn GAs Chris X2125 Computer-Typed, 232-3325. 
Airline Ticket only game. Call Chris at X2115 $430.00 
Desperately needed I Millions of WVFI PRESENTSCall Mike #3493 SHOW YOUR PRIDE! 
I need 2 NAVY GA's next to each Tenn tix of any kind -student or GA. Hey Dan from corn country, yes 1­Buy ND MOM, DAD and 
other. pete x1791. We will pay big bucks! Call Jon Paul MICRO-PALOOZA 32 learned how to French kiss. 
HawaiiALUM sweats this Sat. 
or Brian at 271-8049. How is 15-66 the bike ride to from 9-3 at booths by 
AT Air Chicago to Honolulu 
I need 1 NAVY ticket-student OR TONIGHT -8 till 1 :30 Carroll? Smile and -101 serveNO-HAWAII game K of C and Riley. ?s Sara 
GA. Chris x1789 Need 4 Tenn. GA's X1604 those peas I Love, cousine Kate. X1311. 
call Andy 234-1698 
LIVE MUSIC 4 sale :Navy, Tenn stud x4075 NEED TENN AND NAVY GAs. NICK CAMPONELLA New 15 Gallon Tank w/ everything Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 
MONEY NO OBJECT. BOGUS TOAD SPRING BREAK IN CANCUNIfor sale Paul2462 237-1949 
$$$ATIENTION Ticketholders: Call Ron x2157 SMEAR REPRESENTATIVES WANTED. I need TWO Tennessee GAs VIBRO-LUX COLLEGE TOURS, THE NATIONSApple lmagewriter IIWowC­
so bad that I can taste them! HELPI!I I NEED 1 STD AND/OR LARGEST AND MOST Brand new, in box. paper & Big Bucks in it for YOU I! 1-3 NAVY GA's FOR MY FAMILY SPECIAL GUESTS SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK dust cover. ask $375 
Call DICE at x1751 $$$ CALL AMY x2797 -CATHERINE HILL TOUR OPERATOR NEEDS LOST: Navy blue blazer at the SMC 
Tom 277-8790 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS Junior Dance on Fri. Oct. 
Roses are red Please Help!! Need 3 Navy GAs DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISTS REPRESENTATIVES. EARN FREE$ I WILL MAKE A TRADE $ 11. I left coat on coat-rack in Haggar 
Violets are blue Call Janna or Elissa at x4220 of N.D. TRIPS AND CASH I WE PROVIDE Hall. 'DIIIiards' brand 
I'm schizophrenic and other campus groups EVERYTHING YOU NEED. CALLI WILL TRADE LOTS OF MONEY name on inside coat pocket. 
And so am I. NEED 11!1 1-800-395-4896 FOR MORE Reward. If found call Chris 
FOR 2 TENN GA'S X 1737 
So I need an extra One ticket for Tenn. also really cool artwork INFORMATION. at x2377 
Tenn. GA. GA or Student. Future domer any artists interested KNOLLWOOD RANCH! Quality 
Todd X2371 wants to see his first game call joe at 2024.
thru-out, many extras! Over 2000 
call x1117 Hi Foghorn Leghorn! Downtown book warehouse 
sq. ft.! Call Rodger Pendl, Cressy & 
I have 2 navy TN stud tix please come -we like you I'm glad there'll be no "crabEverett 233-6141 . 
call 272-8696 I NEED NAVY GA'S OR STUD TIX encounter" in Jazz. for our
I WANTED 
own sake!
Navy Selling 2 married stud. tickets. 
I need Tenn GA's or stud it is cancer. The Troublemaker.
phone 273-1714 
NOW HIRING Send Name, Add. Greg 289-8917 CALL TOM the leaves are wet. phone#, yr/major. to X1762 hot dog. Mr. Turner. P.O. Box 4621 H$LP! ON$ T$NN TICK$T if the sun refuse to shine ...
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
South Bend IN 46624 N$$0$0! CALL COLL$$N t NEED 2 TENN GAS-LAURA TOP TEN REa60NS TO
WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. 
X4244 277-9158 LOVE LUNCHMEAT... ALASKA SUMMER Calling O.C.S. MB, R. Scully,
Please help, I need Tenn GA's, call 
EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn Need 2 Tenn GA's desperately!! WILL BUY TENN Knights Inn -cheesy! Bon chance 10. TASTES GOOD-EVEN IN
Kevin @ # 1407. 
$5,000+/month. Free Call Laura X2545 Mike 288-7 458 SUR yos examens. Mine is the BUNS transportation! Room & Board! Road Not Taken. 
i need GAs for NAVY I! I Todd x1784
Over 8,000 openings. No Need 1 TN GA! Mark x1197 NEED 1 GA TICKET FOR "constant interaction. If that was the 9ECONOMICAL SNACK experience necessary. MALE or TENNESSEE CALL X283-2831 case, I would become bored" MBL
FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME 
FEMALE. For employment program Need 4 tix for Tenn. 11/9 Big $ pd. Amilia Angers Kate. 8. WHO CAN RESIST A GOOD 
GAMES273-1 802 
call Student Employment Services Call 283-1 897 Jim or collect 908 I have two Navy GA's, call and OLIVE LOAF??? at 1-206-545·4155 ext. 11 B. 449-0589. leave your best price 273-9376 
Help!II I'm in dire need of SPRINGBREAK SAILING 7. COMES WITH OWN Tennesssee G.A.'s. Please call 
FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS Need 2 student or GA's for Tenn. navy std. ticket 4 sale BAHAMAS 48ft. Luxury Yachts MAYONNAISE
Andy@ 233-9588.
Promote & Organize our Spnng Joe 277-9924 x3459 ask for Joe Groups of Six Break tours. All materials furnished. Seven Days Barefoot Sailing The 6. BEATS THE HECK OUT OF
Help me show some southerners
Good Pay & Fun. Call Campus I NEED USC.TENN,PITI,& NAVY Need 2 TENN stud. or GA's. Bahamas. As Low as $488.00 each SPAM
how real football is played. I need 2 ­
Marketing. 1-800-423-5264. GA TIXS.272-6306 Call Lara x4918 Including Cabin and Meals. Call
TN GAs.Call Will at x3001. 
Anytime. 5. COMES WITH BIG PICKLE TOO TRAVEL FREEl! SELL QUALITY ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S THE 'RENTS ARE COMING I 1-800-999-7245 (SAIL) 
Need 3 Navy GA's. Call Mike @ 
SPRING BREAK VACATION TO TO ANY HOME GAME$ 2 Navy GA's needed desperately 4. GREAT WITH A BREW 
x1630.
JAMAICA. HIGHEST CALL COLLECT Good $ offered COMMISSIONS PAID. WORK FOR 812-477-2627 call Pete at 289-6624 Adoption -a warm and caring 3. CAN BE MOST HELPFUL IN
GET MUCH $$$ FOR NAVY GA'S 
THE BEST! couple wants to open our hearts & THE ELEPHANT WALK 
CALL MAn x1772
SUN SPLASH TOURS Need TENN & USC GA's Stan Save The Earth home to your baby. Call Marty or 1·800-426-771 0. x1726 Sell Me 3 GA's for NAVY Nancy collect 2.LADIES LOVE LUNCHMEAT Leave Message 283-2982 (31 7) 842-8312.
TICKETS
Earn $2500 & Free Trips Selling Need 2 GA's for Navy and 1.5% FAT FREEIIII! Spring Break Packages To Tennessee. Call nm at x1417. I HAVE 2 GA, NAVY Bah11111as, Mexico, Jamaica, CALL 288 0730 EVENINGS i need a NAVY student ticket. pete
Flondal Best Trips & Prices! Spring I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC ADOPTION 
x1791.
Break Travel 1-800-638-6786. and Tennessee. • ••••• $$$$$$$$$$······ Chris 239-5713 •• NEED TWO TENN GA's •• Happy, loving couple wishes to 
NEED: 2 GA's Navy and 4 GA's 
BLUR •• FOR PARENTS FROM ••• raise your white newborn with Hey Regina-Stacey 
Tenn. Call John 273-9165. 
Ch1cago Nov 5 TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS. •• BOSTON! WILL PAY •••• warmth and love. Can provide -Kara-Chinetta Quad, free ticket for ride RANDY 800-323-7687. •• TOP DOLLAR! PLEASE•• financial security and education. Have a happy day! 
Wealthy Double Domer from 
284-5486 •• CALL PATTY x2125••• -Mdel Albuquerque needs 2 Navy GAs. 
BLUR Can you dig this! I am terribly •••••••$$$$$$$$$······ Medical/legal expenses paid . 
call x4942 

interested in buying a Student ticket Please answer our prayers by I need 5 G.A. ·s for the Tennessee for Tennessee. Price is no object, Navy,Tenn marr.stu. tix for sale. 2 calling Maureen & Jim. Call I -800-Tom & Kendra,
Help! ND alum needs two Navy
game. unless of course you want more packs. Will sell packs or indiv. 277-456-2656. What's up? 
GAs. Call Terry x4076 
Andrea X3720 money than I am willing to pay you. 5348. ---Guess Who? Give Dave Bose a ring at 283-2015. 
Need NAVY & TENN GAs! x4282 If Dave is busy his personal staff will Need 2 Female Stud. nx for Tenn. 
be happy to help you. Irish V-ball Jay x1578 HEATHER ESSELBORN IS A HOI Habai Gani, Need TENN Tixl Will sell 
FOR RENT rules!ll!!llllll We've got to do better. 
family members if a must! 
I need 5 GA's for the Navy game Call Shonda Call Tom X1613 
NEED 2 NAVY GAs WILL PAY PLEASE! Sandy x4071 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
$$$ CALL AMY 2558 FEMALE STUDENT NEEDED TO 
219-291-7153 I need three NAVY GA's for _,
I have 1 Student Tenn ticket for PICK -UP AT 3:30 AND CARE I can't stand my roommate. Yep,visiting sister and friends. 
will buy any sale, best offer. I also am in dire FOR 7 YR. OLD 3-4 HAS. that's you_. 
2 bdrm house. $150 & Two have never seen an ND 
tenn or navy need of two Tennessee GA's, call $200/Mo. Call Paul287-2159 game before and would love tix. john 1811 x1471. THEREAFTER. STAY -Your Roommate Walk to campus. to go. Call Elizabeth at X4294. 
OVERNIGHT 2 TO 3 TIMES A 1310 South Bend Ave. 
NEED 2 NAVY AND TENN GA'S WEEK (MY HOME 
I made lots of $$$ over break and 
MIKE 1655 KNOLLWOODIGRANGER AREA) ALL WORK AND NO PLAY MAKES 
Gorgeous 3 bedroom historical need 2 Navy GA's (hint) I Steve PERSONALS 
AND DROP AT SCHOOL AT 8:30. PEGGY A DULL GIRL home. No appliances. $550/mo. x2354 
WANTED: 3 TENN GA'S ­
Call Jeanine Bizzaro 282-1762 or 
CALL x4774 START NOV. 13 THRU END OF Cressy & Everett/ BH & G 233-$ $ $$WANTED $ $ $ $ $ I have 1 Navy stu ticket 
YEAR. WEEK OF X-MAS OFF. Brett Myrter­
6141. One TENN TIX for friend joe 1716
NEED 1 STUDENT and 3 GA'S (NEED FREQUENTLY What's My Gladiator Name??? coming a long way. Call 
for NAVY THEREAFTER). PAYS $100 Barry Manilow and Neil Diamond NICE FURNISHED HOMES Amanda at x-1715. Help! I need 1 Navy GA 
CALL KARIN at x1314 Ill WEEKLY. MUST BE Rule, But I'll Take Kenny Rogers CLOSE NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT Please call x1704 
RESPONSIBLE AND FLEXIBLE. Any day!! II SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6 I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S 
Need Tenn. st. or alum tix$$ please 

PEOPLE 2773097 WILL PAY $40 AND UP 
call Dan x1740 REFERENCES. CALL DONNA@ •Attention Freshman of 11c• 
277-8269. Kristin Ann-LARGE 3-BEDROOM DUPLEX CALL TOM It is another home football weekend 
Garth Rules, But He Didn't Fit In At NEAR ND. APPLIANCES. X1762 and we are already getting hungry. 
Good afternoon, my friends. the HODAG FEST qutie As Well As GARAGE. WALK-IN CLOSETS. It is time to PRODUCE! Donuts Sat. 
I have a small request which I hope WeDidlllllllllll NEW CARPET/PAINT. $395 +' NEED 4 TENN GA'S AND 2 NAVY or suffer the 
can be mutually beneficial to all JETHRO TULL UTILITIES. 289-1618. GA'S. CALL #3718. consequences. By 9:30 
involved. I desperately need 4 GAs CHICAGO 11-25 
for Tennessee. If you have any at all CALL x1897 ALL WORK AND NO PLAY MAKES 2 Bed/2 Bath Condo, 1518 N. NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. 
please call Gina@ 2982. If I am PEGGY A DULL GIRL Oakhill. 5 min walk from CALL DAVE AT X1 807. 
unavailable, please leave a campus. January avail. I am the Lizard King and I can do
message so I can get back to you. THE OBSERVER Welcomes all of References/Deposit 273 $$ NEED A TENN. STUD IN A $$ anything. 
SLAMMERS FOOTBALL: the parents­-1329. $ BAD WAY. CALL DAN x3403 $ 
ALUMNI PARENTS ARE COMING Show 'em what we're made of Happy Tailgatingllllllll 
-
A quaint studio In lovely old mansion 1/2 mile from N.D. $2251 mo. plus deposit call 2879624 
2 0/W TIX SB TO PHI LA. 
NOV 14 $80 EA. 
287-9676 
Beat the Taxi Xmas coming! Brand new full-length sliver fox coat, medium. 255-4139. 
I Have 2 Navy Stud. nx. Jay x157B 
WILL BUY TENN MIKE 288-7458 I NEED 2 TENN GA'S OR STUD. 
CALL MAn@ 1802 FOR SALE: NAVY GA'S. CALL KATE@ 4225. 
IN FOR NAVY AND WILL ABANDON THEIR OLDEST DAUGHTER IF SHE DOESN'T FIND TICKETS. CALL LAURA X3486 
NEED 1 NAVY GAl X1750 
Sub Alum looking FOR FOUR FOR Penn St x2447 SENTENCED TO A PAPER TERM? Trying to beef up a meatless resume? We can help with all sorts of editorial services. 

IDEAS INTO INK 
288:3508 
stronger than burt this Sunday-BEAT P.E.!I We're stadium-bound ... 

DR. SKI CONGRATS on your acceptance to med school! I You'll be the best doc around. I'm so proud of you, hon! Luv,l.b. 
Please Help Me­l desperately need one Tennessee ncket, either student or GA. for my little sister!! II Please call277-3626 and help a youngster have a great daylllllll!!! 
ONE STUDENT NAVY TICKET FOR SALE. CALL CRIS X4892 

page 18 Friday, November 1,1991 
The Observer 
Colletta wary of Howard, weary from Hunter's mistakes 
Bush praises Twins as champs of "most democratic" game 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) ­Purdue coach Jim Colletto may have come up with the most unique defense for Desmond Howard yet. Nothing. 
Well, why not? 
Virtually every team Michigan has played has tried something special to try to stop Howard from catching the ball. Every single one of those plans has failed. 
The Boilermakers (3-4, 2-2) take on the No. 4 Wolverines (6­1, 4-0) at 12:30 p.m. Saturday. The Big Ten game will be carried nationally by ESPN. 
Howard caught touchdown passes of 65 and 41 yards last week at Minnesota to give him a Big Ten and Michigan single­season record of 15 TD recep­tions. The 15 scoring catches eclipsed the record of 14 by former Michigan wide receiver Anthony Carter in 1980. 
"Howard's in a league with Tim Brown, who used to play for Notre Dame," Colletto said. "If you give him a chance to kill you, he'll kill you. He makes plays most college football players can't make. He lays out for the ball. He catches every­thing." 
The Minnesd!Pa game was the eighth consecutive game in 
WASHINGTON (AP) President Bush hailed the Minnesota 1\vins on Thursday as the team whose worst-to­first World Series title "helped deepen America's love affair with baseball." 
-
"You showed why baseball is the most democratic of sports," Bush told the Twins during a Rose Garden ceremony. "What counts is the size of your hearts and your dreams." 
The 1\vins went seven games with the Atlanta Braves, who also finished last in their division in 1990, before winning the title with a 1-0, 10­inning victory Sunday night. 
"A fall classic for all time," Bush called it. Paying tribute to the Braves' performance, the president added, "They made us hope that the Series . . . would never draw to a close." 
Twins owner Carl Pohlad presented Bush with a team jersey and manager Tom Kelly gave him a Kirby Puckett­model Louisville Slugger bat signed by the team. 
The Twins didn't have a baseball for the president, but Series MVP Jack Morris borrowed a souvenir ball from Minnesota Sen. Paul Wellstone, and gave a soft underhand toss to the president. 
It was a triumphant return to Washington for Kelly and the Twins, who won their second World Series title in five seasons. 
Earlier Thursday, at a reception on Capitol Hill, first baseman Kent Hrbek told a throng of former Minnesotans: 
r------------------~
1-i 
MOVIE MegaStore I I TWO for One I 
I

Rent (1) NEW Release I 
I

--Get 2nd One FREE 
I 

Not Vald \\lh Ottuw I 
C<iupals a S,..ois 
I 
I 1111111111111111111111111111 MegaStore I
I 10011850
1 eu w. MciUool.,. A....., 
I ............,."
I :119'415419 •e.u lollth ..... A ..... 
I lo•th ..... JN 
I :171-U'78 
which Howard has scored at least two touchdowns. He has caught a scoring pass in 10 straight games and in 12 of Michigan's last 13. 
That's why Colletto decided to just let sleeping dogs lie. 
"We're planning nothing spe­cial, because it will screw up the rest of our defense," Colletto said. "We'll go with what we've been doing and try not to let him get the long passes." 
If he can't find Howard open, Michigan quarterback Elvis Grbac will probably go to Yale Van Dyne, who has caught 34 passes for 413 yards and two touchdowns this season. 
Grbac threw three TD passes last week, establishing a Michigan career touchdown passing record with 49. The old mark of 48 was held by Rick Leach, who played from 197 5 through 1978. 
"Grbac has gotten better ev­ery year," Colletto said. "When he first started, as a freshman, he struggled. Now he has a great feel for the game. He has great command. He doesn't seem to get flustered. Each year they expand the system to take more advantage of his skills." 
Colletto wasn't nearly so kind 
"We were here in '87. We're here in '91. I'd like to make this a habit." 
The Homer Hanky-waving crowd included Supreme Court Justice Harry A. Blackmun. 
"We're back again and it feels good," Puckett said. 
At the White House, Bush made note of some of the World Series' most memorable moments: Kirby Puckett's leaping catch in Game 6, Hrbek's strong-arm putout of Ron Gant in Game 2 and the ruse that the Braves' Lonnie 

The Department of Music Presents 
Wi[!iam Cerny 
in a Faculty Piano Recital of 
Mozart anaProf(ofieff 
A commemorative Sonata program 
Do the wave at the Wharf. 
Doing the "wave" at Notre Dame football games is practically an institution. And so is going to the Wharf Restaurant for the freshest seafood, beef and chicken entrees in town! Notre Dame fans have been enjoying the Wharf's fabulous lunches and dinners for years! And our salad buffet and Sunday Brunch have reputations that are second to none! When you need to satisfy a winning appetite, follow the wave to the Wharf Restaurant. 
300 East Colfax at the River 234-4477 
toward his own quarterback, junior Eric Hunter. This is Colletta's first year as coach of the Boilermakers, and Hunter has had trouble adjusting to the new system. 
Last year, as a sophomore, Hunter led the Big Ten and was ranked 15th in the NCAA in to­tal offense, averaging 235.5 yards per game. This year he's averaging 120.7 yards through seven games. 
"We have a quarterback who has a lot of talent, but that doesn't make him a great quar­terback," Colletto said. "He doesn't throw to the right guy. He doesn't throw well." 
For the season Hunter has completed 54 of 120 passes for 763 yards and four touch­downs, with six interceptions. Last week, trailing Iowa 31-14, freshman Matt Pike relieved Hunter and threw a 65-yard TO pass to flanker Ernest Calloway. 
Colletto said both will play against Michigan. 
Michigan has won 1 7 of the last 20 encounters, including the last four against the Boilermakers. The Wolverines have won the last 10 games against Purdue in Ann Arbor, dating back to a 22-21 Purdue triumph in 1966. 
Smith fell for in Game 7. 
Smith stopped running and only reached third when infielders Chuck Knoblauch and Greg Gagne tricked him into thinking they had the ball. 
"I think it was Abe Lincoln who said, 'You can fool some of the people all the time. You can fool some of the people some of the time.' But it took Gagne and Knoblauch to fool a baserunner one time," Bush said. 
Turning to Hrbek, who appeared to pull Gant off the bag when he put him out in 
The Observer/Sean 

Eric Hunter will lead the Purdue Boilermakers into battle with Michigan. 
Game 2, Bush said: 
"Barbara asked me to point out to Kent that she could use some help around the house with heavy lifting," Bush said. 
Bush and Pohlad also joked about the president's relationship with the Texas Rangers. George W. Bush, the president's son, is general 
Laale Wha's 
latA 
Haircut! 
Sully•s
112111! 
Yehfor#7! 
Happy Birthday Baby! 
partner of the Rangers. 
Pointing out several youth league baseball teams in attendance, Bush said: "Our son ... called and he wants us to scout all of you, so just stick around after this." 
Pohlad said, "l told George we always like him to finish a clean second to us." 

·------------------­



--~~ 
The Observer 

HEAD COACH LOU HOLTZ INVITES NOTRE DAME ALUMNI, STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF TO JOIN HIM IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST ANNUAL SOUTH BEND CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS CHRISTMAS LUNCHEON 
WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 4, 1991 11:30 A.M. 
CENTURY CENTER, SOUTH BEND 
Since the founding of South Bend's Center for the Homeless in 1988, the Notre Dame community has embraced the Center as an opporturyity for students, faculty, staff and alumni to reach out in the spirit of Jesus to the less fortunate of Michiana. Lou Nanni, a Notre Dame alumnus and member of the University's Board of Trustees, is the Center's director .. University administrators serve on the Center's board. Students, faculty and staff members volunteer their time to minister to the Center's residents. Notre Dame alumni have served on the Center's staff and been among its early benefactors. 
Now friends of the Center, including Coach Lou Holtz and other members of the University community, are joining in the inauguration of a splendid new holiday tradition: the first annual Center for the Homeless Christmas Luncheon. This event will play a pivotal role ·in enabling the Center to meet the vital needs of the homeless during the coming winter. 
Staffed by1 0 people assisted by some 400 volunteers each month, the Center is equipped with 135 beds in three residential areas--for men, for women and for families. During the first nine months of 1991, it has provided 17,605 nights' lodging and more than 33,000 meals. Even in this year's mild Michiana autumn, the Center has averaged 85 guests each night ... and the number will increase dramatically as the weather grows colder. 
In addition, some 100 needy people each day use Center services including mental health counseling, medical and dental care, job placement, outpatient treatment for mental illness and chemical dependency, parental counseling programs, preschool and G.E.D. classes, and legal aid. 
The Center depends entirely on community volunteers and generosity--on people like you--to offer the homeless these gifts of hospitality, compassion, and respect. 
By your presence or by your support, please join the Notre Dame and Michiana communities on December 4 ... in the spirit of the Christ Child . . . in celebration of the gift of giving. 
YES, I plan to join Coach Holtz December 4 in support of Michiana's homeless. Please reserve: 
__ tables of eight at $240 per table 
__ individuals at $30-per reservation 
I'M UNABLE TO ATTEND the December 4 luncheon, but please accept my gift of 
$_to the Center for the Homeless 
(Please make checks payable to the Center for the Homeless) 813 South Michigan St., South Bend, IN 46601 
NAME______________________________________________ 
COMPANY NAME_____________________________________ 
ADDRESS___________________________________________ 
CITY______________________________STATE 71P 
PHONE________________________________________________ 
---Contributions to the Center for the Homeless are tax deductible--­
I ~ I I 
~~-­
page 20 The Observer Friday, November 1,1991 
Ojibway Indian insulted by NBA schedule to begin tonight 
(AP) -After a dream champi­Clippers are at Sacramento and Schintzius. The Los Angeles
Braves fans files complaint 
onship series that pitted Magic Phoenix is at Seattle. Clippers acquired Doc Rivers against Michael, the NBA opens The three other teams, New and James Edwards. 

MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -An Justice's civil rights division in 
its new season Friday night Jersey, Miami and Atlanta, open Among the missing are Jack
Ojibway Indian who says he Washington, D.C. A Justice 
with Johnson among the miss­Saturday night as part of a 12-Sikma, Vinnie Johnson, Kellywas spit on and called "chief" Department official said it could ing and Jordan among the mys­game schedule with the Nets at Tripucka, Ralph Simpson,during a World Series game take several weeks to terious. Charlotte, the Heat playing host Mychal Thompson, Reggiebetween the Atlanta Braves and investigate the complaint. 
Johnson is missing, all right, to the New York Knicks, and the Theus, Rick Mahorn, DarrellMinnesota Twins has filed a Veilleux said he filed the 
recovering from the flu and Hawks at home against Detroit. Griffith and Alex English. Alldiscrimination complaint asking complaint last Friday after scheduled to sit out the Los When coach Phil Jackson was were let go after long careers.
the Braves to change the team traveling to Atlanta to attend 
Angeles Lakers' opener in asked how the rest of the On the eve of the season,
name. Game 5 of the World Series the Houston. "I'm just resting be­league might block the Bulls, Charlotte finally reachedFred Veilleux, active in efforts night before. 
cause of the fatigue and as a his answer was direct: "I don't agreement with Larry Johnson to get Minnesota high schools to He said headdress-wearing precaution," he said. ''I'm not think anything can keep us on a six-year, $20 million con­abandon Indian mascot names, and tomahawk-chopping aching or hurting. I just don't from winning the champi­tract. But slx of the top 10 draft 
said Wednesday the Atlanta Atlanta fans spit on him and 
feel like myself." onship, except ourselves." picks -Kenny Anderson of team name demeans Indians. called him "chief" and The Jordan mystery concerns Like, perhaps. the bad feel­New Jersey, Sacramento's BillyHis complaint, filed with the "Cochise" because he carried a recurring tendinitis in his left ings that spilled over when Owens. Doug Smith of Dallas, U.S. attorney's office in Atlanta, sign reading: "American knee. Much to the relief of the Jordan skipped a White House Luc Longley with Minnesota,contends that use of the Braves Indians are human beings. We champion Chicago Bulls, Jordan welcome for the champion Bulls Denver's Mark Macon and name as a mascot -with its are not mascots. We deserve said Thursday he does not last summer and then showed Brian Williams of Orlandotomahawk logo -"incites, respect." 
anticipate surgery to deal with up 90 minutes late for the first -remained unsigned.
invites. promotes and provokes Native American 
the problem. "This is something training camp session. Horace Besides Johnson at Charlotte,the public, the fans both inside organizations and officials from I've had for a while so it's Grant began complaining about teams expecting instant helpand outside the stadium" into around the country have nothing to worry about," a double standard, an exercise from rookies include Atlanta acts that offend Indians and complained that the "tomahawk Jordan said. "And it's not as in freedom of speech that cost with Stacy Augmon, Denverdeny them the enjoyment of a chop" and wearing of imitation painful as everyone may think. the forward a fine from the with Dikembe Mutombo andpublic place. headdresses by Atlanta fans It's something that comes and club. To the Bulls' credit, they Miami with Steve Smith -allVeilleux said his complaint is mocked and distorted Indian goes. I've played with tendinitis fined Jordan, as well. picked among the top 10. 
based on the public culture. 
ever since high school." Chicago's lineup -Jordan, One rookie won't be playingaccommodations section of civil Braves officials have said the Then Jordan chuckled over all Grant, Scottie Pippen, Bill this season. Richard Dumas,
rights laws, which says that a chop and Indian paraphernalia the concern about his health Cartwright and John Paxson -drafted by the Phoenix Suns on person cannot be denied equal are not meant to offend Indians and chided reporters. "You guys is intact from the 61-21 club the second round, was sus­enjoyment of a public facility, and are simply a way for fans to are beginning to sound like my that cruised to the NBA cham­pended by the league for thelike a stadium, because of their support their team. 
mother," he said. pionship by winning 15 of 17 in season Thursday after he tested race, color, creed or country of Braves president Stan Kasten It's understandable, though. the playoffs. The Bulls lone ad­positive in a random drug test.
origin. said Thursday he would meet Jordan has won five straight dition is rookie Mark Randall. Dumas. a 6-7 forward. playedCurtis E. Anderson, assistant with any group or individual scoring titles and is the corner­Some of the teams pursuing his college ball at OklahomaU.S. attorney in charge of the who has a concern about the stone of the Bulls, who begin Chicago made substantial per­State and spent last seasoncivil division in Atlanta, said team. But he said no Indian pursuit of a second straight title sonnel adjustments. playing in Israel. 
that the complaint will be filed protesters have contacted him 
at home against the Detroit added Orlando Four coaches start on new
with the U.S. Department of about a meeting. 
Philadelphia 76ers. Woolridge and Darrell Walker. jobs. Pat Riley, who led the 
performances from Gorski and In Friday night's other open­Moses Malone signed as a free Lakers to four world champi­
senior Diana Bradley, who are ers, Charlotte will unveil newly­agent with Milwaukee. New onships before sitting out last
X-Country 
the lone upperclassmen in their signed No. 1 draft pick Larry York acquired Xavier McDaniel, season, takes over the reigns in Johnson at Boston, New York is swapping Trent Tucker and New York. Kevin Loughery, who 
continued from page 23 top seven runners. 
at Orlando, Washington plays at Jerrod Mustaf to Phoenix. San previously coached a number of "They've immediately adjusted Indiana, Milwaukee visits Antonio added Antoine Carr. NBA teams. will be the bench
'I think because we're a young

to collegiate running," said Detroit, Utah plays at Atlanta picked up Maurice boss in Miami. Jimmy Rodgers. 
team we're a close team," said

Gorski of the freshmen. Minnesota, San Antonio plays Cheeks, Travis Mays and Blair who spent two years coaching
Husted, "And with the 

host to Dallas, Golden State is at Rasmussen. Cleveland added Boston, takes over at Minnesota leadership of Diana and Lisa. 
Denver, Cleveland plays at John Battle. Sacramento picked and Allan Bristow steps down toConnelly will also look for good we work really well as a team." 
Portland, the Los Angeles up Spud Webb and Dwayne coach Charlotte. 
~·~<::~<:;~<:>.M;,t~<~<·>.M<·~<·'>.QC•::'·>.W!•~·'*~'>.Qit<::'•>.CIIC•r"::•<:~).QC<:c").QC<:~~>.-K~<').QC<:;·~·~:;:ac<·>.M<:,>.Qit<:;•>.SO~:~O:::·).QC<·~·).QC•:";"•'*~').QC<'·::«•~·~;~c1 
I Autograph Party · 1 1 Featuring 1I .. Sports Commentator 1 
:Jt·,...i ~.·.~.¥."!11\--· i'



Sat. Nov. znd ~:z:oopm to z:oopm 
---~-------------------~-------------------------~­
----------------. 
Friday, November 1,1991 The Observer page 21 
Anderson fails to reach terms with Nets for opener .. 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD. N.J. would not guarantee the final 
submitted its 12-man roster to camp or even practiced once." (AI') -Talks between Kenny year of the contract. the NBA and Anderson was not Most of the Nets players don't Anderson and the New Jersey Howell reportedly wants the on it, Reed said. appear upset with Anderson, Nnts hit another snag Thursday, entire deal guaranteed. He also Anderson, who left Georgia _ who averaged 23 points per and there is little chance the is seeking $14.5 million over Tech after his sophomore game in college. No. 2 pir.k in the NBA draft will live years, or an average of $2.9 season to enter the draft, Nets center Sam Bowie said play in the season opener million. missed training camp and that there probably is a perception Saturday. Howell had left his office late has made Nets coach Bill Fitch among the public that Anderson 
Willis Heed. Nets senior vice Thursday afternoon and was unhappy. is being greedy turning down a president, said he spoke with not available for comment. Fitch said the Nets may have yearly salary in excess of $2.7 Hichard Howell, Anderson's "We're in a holding pattern," to start thinking about making a million. 
tlanta-based attorney on Heed said. "It's unfortunate for trade to get a backup point "It might seem to them that hursday, and came away the New Jersey Nets, and it's guard. he is extremely selfish and pointed. unfortunate for Kenny If they trade for a veteran, the greedy, but that's not the case "I had been optimistic that we Anderson." money that he would make at all," Bowie said. "lie is
Kenny Anderson 

re close the last couple of Heed said he hasn't reached might influence how much the asking for and trying to receive ," Hend said. "But based on the point where he will give and the club. team can afford to give his market value, and based on 
"I don't think we're at that

r last conversation, I'm not Anderson an ultimatum, like Anderson in his rookie season the fact that Larry (Johnson)
point yet," Reed said. "There is 

re anymore. Under the salary the one Charlotte gave Larry because of the league's salary just signed, I'm sure they will ap, we know the number we Johnson, the No. 1 pick in the still hope. I know Kenny cap. come to an agreement real give Kenny Anderson in his draft. They told him either Anderson wants to play Even if Anderson signed soon." rst year and it's not a bad accept their offer or play in basketball, and in New Jersey. Friday, Fitch said he probably Derrick Coleman, who missed 
At some point he will have to

umbt~r." Europe. would not play against all but a couple of days training Tlw latest Nets offer Johnson signed a six-year influence what's going on. Charlotte on Saturday. camp last year while 
When you have a salary cap you 

nportedly was a five-year contract Wednesday that will "I doubt very much if he negotiating a $3 million a year
need help getting it done. We

tract worth $13.7 million, or pay him an average of $3.3 showed up Saturday, he'd even contract, said Anderson cannot average of $2.7 4 million per million a year. The deal has were promised help and it be given a uniform," Fitch said. come to camp until he is happy . But New Jersny reportedly escape clauses for both Johnson hasn't happened." "He hasn't been in training with his contract. 
New Jersey on Thursday 

Rangers continue five-year home streak on Nordiques 
EW YORK (AI'l -Tony !\monte tied the game with a Feb. 24. He was 0-1-1 in two as the Kings improved their 8-0 victory in Game 6 of the ontn tied the game with 4:54 quick shot from the slot, then games this season and was record to 3-2-1 on their current Stanley Cup finals last May 25. emaining, then set up John set up Ogrnodnick with a making his first appearance road swing. Wayne Gretzky ick's game-winner with beautiful pass into the right after sitting out a six-game scored into an empty net with Blackhawks 4, Islanders 3 
seconds left to give the New circle just as a Quebec penalty suspension. 23 seconds left. CHICAGO -Steve Larmer Hangers a 5-4 victory over ended. Ogrodnick skated in and scored his second goal of the ht1 QuebtlC Nordiques on drilled a shot by Stephane Fiset, Kings 4, Bruins 3 Penguins 8, Stars 1 game with 1:14 remaining in 
ursday night. who kept the Nordiques in the BOSTON -Tomas Sandstrom PITTSBURGH -Pittsburgh's regulation time to give Chicago The Hangers continued their game with 38 saves. broke a tie with a power-play new-look line of Mario Lemieux, a victory over the Islanders. urrent hot streak and their goal midway through the third Jaromir Jagr and Kevin Stevens Larmer snuck in behind the 
mination of the Nordiques by Flyers 5, Sharks 2 period as Los Angeles rallied scored five goals, two each by Islanders' defense, took Michel wiping out a 4-3 deficit in the PHILADELPHIA -San Jose's from a sluggish start to beat Lemieux and Stevens, as the Goulet's quick pass from the final five minutes. The victory losing streak reached 11 games Boston. Penguins rebounded from one right boards and put the puck was their fourth in a row as Rick Tocchet scored twice to Luc Robitaille tied the score of the worst losses in club into a half-empty net behind overall and eighth straight at lead Philadelphia over the first­2-2 just 1:19 into the final history to rout the North Stars. Glenn Healy for his ninth goal the Garden over the Nordiques, year Sharks. period. Sandstrom got the Pittsburgh has outscored of the season. Larmer also 
o haven't won in New York Flyers goaltender Ron Hextall game-winner from a traffic jam Minnesota 16-1 in their last two scored a power-play goal in the Jan. 23, 1986. won for the first time since last just outside the crease at 11:19 · games, including the Penguins' second period. 
SALUTES THE 61st ANNIVERSARY OF THE DEDICATION OF NOTRE DAME STADIUM,
~orioi'~ 
CELEBRATED THEN BY A FOOTBALL GAME BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE "The Italian Ristorante" DAME AND THE UNITEDSTATES NAVAL ACADEMY, WHICHTHEIRISH WON 26T02. 
~~~ 
.., .. 

IRISH VS NAVY 1991
.:~ 
CELEBRATE A NEW TRADITION 
"TENTGATE" PARTY AT PARISI'S 
BIG AND HEARTY ITALlAN SANDWICHES 
POP * FREE COFFEE PLUS BIG TV! 
*PLUS* 
FINE DINING IN OUR RISTORANTE Open Friday from 4pm & Saturday from 12pm BOTH DAYS ''TIL MIDNIGHT" 
JUST A SHORT WALK FROM STADIUM
TAKEN 11 OCTOBER 1930 OF DEDICATION GAME NOTRE DAME FIGIITING IRISH vs NAVY MIDSHIPMEN 



1412 SOUTH BEND AVE., SOUTH BEND, IN RESERVATIONS ACCEJYfED (219) 232-4244 
-
.. 
.. 
-

~~~--~------~ --·~------~~----------~ -----~­
page 22 The Observer Friday, November 1,1991 
• 
lnterhall soccer playoffs take off Equestrian club travels to 
Cavanaugh hopes to crusade through tough 1991 field Purdue with four riders 
Bowling Green on Sunday. ~i;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
The Irish currently enjoy a~ four-match win streak, which 
they extended Wednesday night 
PEPPERS
with a 15-13, 15-8, 5-15, 15-12 victory over 20th-ranked Louisville. After this weekend's matches, Willi SPEC~l'L GUEST 
the Irish will conclude their ~~~G ~~KIN~
1991 home schedule with a Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference contest versus Loyola 
University on Wednesday night. Dini, & PEARL JAM 
I H Go Crazy on Your 18th!! WED NOV 20•7:30 
continued from page 26 KALAMAZOO WINGS STADIUM 
d efe nsi ve work in that area," TICKETSAT ALL TICKETMASitR OUTlEIS M:Wl!NG SEl.fCT said Ebert. IIEI.EVE IN MUSICS, HUDSOHS, AND THEWINGS STADilN BOX-OFRCE, CHARGE BY PHONE CALL (616) 9638liKI With both teams placing an~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lQi~~~~~~ 
BY JIM VOGL Sports Writer 
As the men's interhall soccer championships are about to begin, first seeded Cavanaugh is expectedly anxious. 
Led by senior captain Garr Schwartz, the Crusaders have had a dominating season. Their 4-0-1 record is powered by a defense that has only allowed one goal, that being scored by their own team. 
Cavanaugh kicks off the tournament Sunday at noon against eight-seeded Pangborn (3-1) at Stepan Field. At the same time, third-seeded Alumni (4-0-1) plays the off-campus team, Bridget's Brigade. At 1 p.m., 4-1 Zahm battles Grace (4-0), followed by second-rated Stanford versus El Cartel, a conglomerate team, at 2. 
The Crusaders enter the tour­nament on unfamiliar turf. "This is the first time 'Naugh has made the play-offs in at least the past eight years, " Schwartz admitted. 
The lone senior on a young 
Irish volleyball travels to face BGSU, Toledo Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame volleyball team (14-7) travels to Ohio this weekend to face Toledo 
University on Saturday and 
emphasis on stopping the pass-1i ing game, and the dismal 
weather conditions this game could swing from an aerial at­tack to a ground war. Both teams are capable of relying 
,. solely on the run. Baker is ar­guable the best back in the league, and Seng running be­hind a mammoth offensive line could cause trouble for Fisher. 
"They have some big guys and they are hard to stop," said Ebert. "We will have to use our quickness to neutralize the size differential." 
If Fisher is able to pull out the victory it would set up a second meeting between the Green Wave and Carroll. The two teams tied in their regular season meeting. 
"We would like to get another 
.. 
shot at Carroll, but we are not looking past Zahm," said Ebert. "We realize we must stay focused." 
-
squad, Schwartz senses the same day, so we were pretty By JONATHAN JENSEN ened due to the fact that it i beginning of a new winning exhausted," he saidof the Zahm Sports Writer Parent's Weekend here at ND tradition in Cavanaugh soccer. contest. "We beat them (Zahm) Nevertheless, the riders ar 
"We start half sophomores 2-0 on a day when their all-star The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's ready to challenge the hos and half freshmen," he said. goalie was missing. Zahm was Equestrian Club travels to the Boilermakers for the title. "Even if we don't win it this pretty upset that we won and Purdue University horse show In addition to Strasser, Vic year, we should have a really they're going to be keyed up to this weekend, with the Western President Angela Cutron bright future. " beat us next time around." competition taking place on Treasurer Eric Ivanovich, 
According to Schwartz, the As for the overall tournament, Friday night at 7:30 and the Dawn Overstreet will be heart of the team involves the commissioner Mickey Perez Hunt Seat show starting on 8:00 peting in tbe show. defense, and two freshmen in assured excellent competition. Saturday morning. particular: sweeper Keith "Last year's tournament was Jen Strasser, the President of The club, which has been Kooman and center-halfback won by Off-campus. This year the ND/SMC Equestrian Club, is tive since 1987, has alread Jeff Caple a. the teams are all pretty evenly excited about this weekend's started to make a name for 
"Those two have given us matched. The worst record is 3-show. "Purdue is the president self in Region XII, which some great ball-control. They 1-1, and the goal differentials college of our region," said sists of 13 schools are the basis for setting up our range from plus four to minus Strasser, "So the show is usu­the Midwest. The team's whole offense. I think they're two. They are all pretty high ally pretty good." finish was third, in 1987-88. both just incredible players, " scoring teams," he said. The Western portion of the "Our team has been he said. "There's some really good soc­show resembles the Equestrian its own for the last couple 
Kooman has confidence in his cer going to be played, espe­Olympic events, with the riders sons," noted Strasser. 
youthful teammates. "Although cially the top-ranked teams. leading the horses over a series In addition to competing the team is very young, many of Those are the teams to watch." of gates and water hazards. Intercollegiate Horse us played at a very competitive "Whoever wins will have the The Hunt Seat competition con­the ND/SMC Equestrian C level in high school, and this honor of saying they are the sists of judges asking the riders offers riding lessons during just might give us an extra edge best collection of men's soccer to make their horses perform 2nd semester. The program in the tournament." players on campus, next to the certain tasks, and the key is open to all levels of riders, 

Cavanaugh's proudest ac­varsity team of course," said whether the horses will respond the club uses Kensington complishments this season were Schwartz, who hopes to see his to the rider's cues. Center as its team stable.A defeating Grace and Zahm. Crusaders finally get the honor The Club is sending four rid­interested should cont 
"We played Dillon earlier the before he graduates. ers to the show, a number less-
John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
"".....,...... Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB ~ 
MOTOR 5922 GRAPE ROAD
CLUB 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 

219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 
c H I L I 
ARITUAL/CEllAR DOOR/BLACKIE PRODUCTION 
Sophomore & Junior Business Administration Majors 
Notre Dame Accounting Association and Arthur Andersen 
present 

CAREERS IN ACCOUNTING 
All students are welcome to attend and hear more about accounting related careers 
Wednesday, November 6th, 1991 
Senior Bar Presentation-4:30pm Pizza Reception -5:30 pm Dress is casual 
ARTHUR 

ANDERSEN 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co SC 

Friday, November 1,1991 The Observer page 23 
'

Eighth-ranked men's cross-country to face foes of MCC 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
The smtson is rapidly drawing to a dose for the eighth-ranked Notre Dame men's cross coun­try team. The Irish travel to Chieago this WHekend for the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championships. 
Coming off an impressive showing at the Indiana lnter­eollegiates, the team is geared up for tlw race, but will be looking out for Loyola, a team which received snvnral top­twenty votes. 
"Essentially, it is a dual meet hetWIH~n Loyola and Notre l>anw," said Notre Dame eoach .l1w l'iane. "No one else in the MCC can hold a candle to Loy­ola or Notrn Dam1~." 


Women harriers bounce back to compete in MCC meet 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
What a difference a couple of wneks can make. Two week­ends ago. the Irish women's <:ross-country team was deci­rnatl~d by sickness and injuries. Though the team finished sec­ond in the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet, these ill­nesses deprived it of an ex-
MAI~~GOLD MAI~KET 

pected victory. However, this weekend is a whole new story. With their top seven runners hflalthy, the Irish are primed and ready to defend their Midwestern Collegiate Conference title at the MCC Meet at 10:00 tonight in Chicago. The Notre Dame runners feel anything but a first-place finish 
The Irish faced the Ramblers a few weeks ago at the National Catholic Meet here at Notre Dame. Loyola claimed the individual title in that event with Jim Westphal taking top honors, but Notre dame edged out Loyola in team competition with second place behind Provi­dence College. 
Sophomore Mike McWilliams was the highest finisher for the Irish in third place. Four more Irish runners crossed the finish line before the second Hambler runner finished creating the Irish advantage in point totals. Junior John Coyle and junior Nick Hadkewich were the next highnst finishers in seventh and ninth place. Senior Pat Kearns and freshmen Nate Hurler 
Mike McWilliams 
crossed the line eleventh and twelveth. 
Loyola also had five runners finish in the top twenty. Senior Dave Rill (13), junior Neyl Mar­quez (14), junior Jason Albright (16), and freshmen Jason Rush 
will be an utter disappointment. "Coach Connelly will be real upset if we don't win," said freshman Emily Husted, who sat out the last meet with ten­dinitis in her Achilles tendon. "He thinks we can have our top seven in the top ten." Notre Dame's top competitor will be host Loyola, who fin­ished fourth in the National Catholics Meet earlier this year, right behind the Irish. "We will be running on Loyola's home course," said senior Lisa Gorski, "They're going to challenge us." This week coach Tim Connelly will look to the freshmen to lead the Irish to the champi­onship, as five new faces are (18) in addition to Westphal placed well in the event. 

Making the trip for the Irish will be Coyle, McWilliams, Hadkewich, Ruder, junior J. T. Burke, seniors Shawn Schnei­der and Mike Drake, and freshmen John Cowan. Kearns will miss the meet because of a prior commitment. 
The Irish will be competing on a tough course in Montrose Park just off Lake Shore Drive. Weather conditions in the Windy City are never too pre­dictable, but it looks like it will be quite chilly with some tradi­tional Chicago-style wind. It won't be a problem for the Irish according to Piane . 
"When the weather is cold, it effects thoroughbreds more 
among their top seven runners. Freshmen Eva Flood and Stefanie Jensen have consis­tently been Notre Dame's best runners this season. Flood was the first Irish finisher in their first three meets this year, fin­ishing second in the other. "She's a great runner," noted Gorski, "And she's only going to get better with time." Jensen carne in second for Notre Dame in two meets, be­fore leading the Irish at the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet. Freshmen Emily Husted and Becky Alfieri are also expected to finish high for the Irish. "They've immediately adjusted 
see x-country, p.22 

Happy 21st! 
Love, your favorite, Farley fans: Mix, Jack, Hersch, Mouth, Col, Baum 
ti>~o~ PO:m~:GYM 
rl. ~... JEROBJCS CENTER NOW ,_. ' ~ ' L.~ OFFERING SUPER SPECIAL
GYM. STUDENT RATES 
~1JlN!©bWJ))lE: 
•l3000lbsOF~~~ 
•INDIVIDUAL 
EXERCISE PROGRAMS-BUILD /REDUCE 

•IC.ARJAN 
EXERCISE EQUIPMENT 

• 
.IEROBICS • 35 CLASSES PER WEEK INCLUDING REEBOK STEP .IEROBICS CAM STAR CIRCUIT TRAINING EQUIP 


LOCKER, SHOWER, DRESSING ROOMS TANNING (ADDITIONAL) 
• SPORTSWEAR (ADDmONAIJ 
~JN!©Wl ~~~00@ 
M-F 6:00 AM -10:00 PM SAT 8:00AM-6:00PM SUN 12:00 PM -4:00 PM 
I'OWERHOUSEGYM • 130WESTEDISONROAD • MISHAWAKA,IN46MS
-· 
than hard core cross country runners. Here, we only have hard core runners," said Piane. 
The goals for the champi­onships are clear. 
"Our goal is to win," said Pi­ane. "We would also like to have two or three men in before their second finisher and all our five in before their five." 
A win would be a big boost to a team that faces staunch corn­petition in two weeks at the NCAA District meet. Notre Dame is in what eould be one of the two toughest districts in the country. The District meet will feature four teams currently ranked in the top-twenty and two other teams who received votes. 
Firestone sued over Sports Talk show by Wallach 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The creator of a cable TV sports show sued moderator Hoy Firestone for more than $18 million Thursday, contending he stole the idea for "SportsLook" and cloned it as a new show, "Up Close." 
George Wallach and his Wallach-Seizer Productions (WSP) also sued his former partner, Bob Seizer, and another associate, Jack Mc­Queen, accusing them of con­spiring with Firestone to steal the show idea. 
The lawsuit, filed by enter­tainment industry lawyer Pierce O'Donnell, accused the defendants of "stealthy connivance to pirate business, unfairly motivated by greed and unbridled egotism." 
ln addition to actual and punitive damages, the suit seeks an accounting of all re­ceipts and disbursements from "Up Close" and a share of the profits with interest. 
The suit said that Firestone was unsatisfied with his $500,000 a year contract to moderate "SportsLook," a show featuring interviews with sports stars and sports journalists, and wanted his own show without Wallach's involvement. 
"SportsLook" ran from 1980 through 1983 on the USA Net­work, then was sold to ESPN, which carried the show through 1990. The lawsuit said that the show won four ACE awards, the cable equivalent of the Emmy. 
"SportsLook" was canceled after Firestone left the show, and the lawsuit said that Wal­lach was stunned when he turned on the TV on Jan. 2, 1991, and saw a new show called "Up Close" on ESPN. In the suit, Wallach called the show "virtually identical to the 'SportsLook' series in concept, format, look, personnel, and all other material respects." 
() .."-........·-· _
------­
DINNERFOR 2 
FOR $8.99 Plck IIII}'IWOGounnet S...dwlch•.two (IIOI'IIen su.do. pluo yow c:bola. c( Freoch Frl• or Onion RIDto .002 MIIJI.SuDd­
expfraUOD date 11/24 
Buy 1111}' ol.ze ound•and 

------­
SUNDAE 
99~ 
r-w-·-lorlfca oecond one c( tbe 
explraUon date 11/24 
... 
-
... 
-

page 24 
SMC soccer down to one 
Final game may make Belles' fate 
BY RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The season comes down to one game for the Saint Mary's soccer team. 
After its 3-1 loss to Kalamazoo College on Tuesday, Belles' coach Tom Van Meter called Sunday afternoon's match with Saint Thomas University a must­win game if they want to keep alive their hopes for an NCAA Division III playoff berth. 
Sixteen teams receive bids to the Division III tournament, with at least one team from the five regions around the country assured a berth. Saint Mary's (8-3-2) currently is ranked second in the Great Lakes Region and is 19th in the nation. 
The problem is that Kalamazoo, the number-one team in the region, virtually clinched the Great Lakes' berth with Tuesday's win, leaving the Belles in the hunt only for an at-large selection. 
"If we can win on Sunday, we can put the pressure on them (the NCAA selection committee)," he said. "We have an outside chance, but it's a better one than we've ever had before." 
Although the Belles fell to Kalamazoo, Van Meter saw plenty out on the field to be encouraged about heading into Sunday's game. "We probably played the 
.., 
best defensive half of the season in the first half (Tuesday)," he said. "But we came out in the second half tentatively, and Kalamazoo could smell it and took advantage of the opportunity. 
"Yet our girls came back and for the last 20 minutes of the game, dominated play, and I was really pleased about that. They showed a lot of character and composure." 
Now the Belles must rebound against a Saint Thomas team that comes into Sunday's match with a 9-3-1 record and having already defeated Saint Mary's of Winona-which was ranked 12th in the country at the time-this season. 
"We have to play a perfect game," Van Meter said. "We have to forget about the past and look toward the present. We have to go all out, because we have nothing to hold back for." 
For Saint Mary's to win, it will need yet another strong performance from its dynamic scoring combination of sophomore Megan Dalsaso (14 goals) and junior Stacy Winget (13). 
The two have combined for 27 of the Belles' 38 goals this season, and are the spark be­hind an offense that has aver­aged almost three goals per game this season. 
"They're very talented indi­vidually, but they've been able to transfer that talent to the next level," Van Meter said of his two leading scorers. "They seize opportunities and make things happen for us. 
"But our character this year," he continued, "has been that while we've had great individual efforts, there are also a lot of unsung heroes on the team this year. We've had a total team effort." 

-
.. 
The Observer Friday, November 1,1991 
New ticket plans explained by Heisler after basketball season packages falter 
Observer Staff Report 

The unexpectedly low demand for student season tickets to Notre Dame men's basketball games has led the Athletic Department to offer a split-season package of games at a lower price. 
"Coming into the year, we were looking at a variety of dif­ferent things, and we started the sale of student tickets a bit earlier than usual," said Notre Dame Sports Information Director John Heisler. "That way, we would have a week or two to deal with leftovers for season tickets [for the general public]. In fairness to every­body, we preferred to know what we would have available. 
"After the original student sale on season tickets, we had a number left over, and felt that if for whatever reason people 

Belles' swimming and diving team opens 
John Heisler 

were not ready to buy an entire season package, we felt that we could still sell them by offering some packages that would give different options. Single-game tickets are still available for all games as well." 
Heisler noted that predicting student demand for basketball tickets is an imprecise art, with the number of tickets sold fluc­tuating greatly from season to season. 
"Basketball is not like foot­ball, which has been rather routine for years," said Heisler. "The demand for student tickets that we projected was just too high. We don't want a situation where we have students who want tickets and we don't have any available to them. 
"Really the only thing that we have been able to do is that we were afforded the chance to move some long-time season ticket holders from the upper arena into the lower arena, be­cause students were not buying any tickets." 
Information about season ticket packages and single game tickets can be obtained at the ticket office in the Joyce ACC. 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's swimming and diving team opens its 1991­92 season this Friday at the Notre Dame Relays. 
The Belles enter their second season at the NCAA Division III level after enjoying a successful inaugural campaign. Fifth-year coach Dennis Cooper lost only one swimmer to graduation and has 16 letterwinners coming back from last year's 6-5 campaign that included a vic­tory at the Midwest Invitationals. 
But senior Peggy Meiering believes the Belles are in store for bigger and better things this season. 
"Last year, we had a couple of meets that we lost by only a few points, like the Valparaiso 
meet," she said. "We've got them at home this year, so we're hoping to turn the ta­bles." 
The top returnee for Saint Mary's is senior diver Carrie Cummins. The Beavercreek, Ohio native qualified for the NCAA Division III tournament last season, and is a good bet to reach the championships again in both the one-and three­meter events. 
Other veterans include juniors Jennifer Danahy, the school record-holder in the 200 breaststroke, and Chris Smiggen, who barely missed out on the NCAA championships while setting the Saint Mary's record in the 200-meter butterfly. 
Moving up from the NAIA ranks to NCAA Division III may have cost Smiggen a chance at postseason competition, but Meiering believes in the long run, the jump in classifications will benefit the Belles' program. 
"It gives us higher goals to strive for," she said. "It was much easier to qualify for the NAIA meet, but it's good to have more difficult times to have to reach." 
Saint Mary's will be the only Division III team in the field for today's Notre Dame Relays, but the team is not daunted by the challenge of going up against Division I competition. 

"It's an opportunity to see better swimmers in action," Meiering said. "It also will pro­vide a testing ground for our freshmen. There's no pressure on us because we're not fa­vored to win the meet, so we can go out and have a good time." 

Friday, November 1,1991 The Observer 
Miller able to transfer without losing eligibility 

Spec)al to the Observer 
Tlw NCAA's strict rules against player tampering will knnp Notre Dame standing on the sidnlines while Mike Miller deeides where he wants to play football. 
Notre Dame won the recruit­ing battle for the wide receiver and coach Lou lloltz touted him as the successor to Haghib "Hoeket" Ismail. 
Miller sustained a hamstring injury and quit after Notre Damn's 24-14 loss to Michigan to return home and enroll at llouston. 
Now he says he wants to re­enroll at Notre Dame. He doesn't hold a Houston athletic seholarship, but Holtz doesn't 
SPORlS BRIEFS 
_The ND/SMC Ski Club is sponsoring a spring break ski trip to Summit County, CO. There will be an informational meeting for anyone interested today at 8 p.m. in Rm. 118 Nieuwland Science Bldg. Call Mike at 271-8901 or Bob at 283-3588 if you have questions. The Aikido Club will meet today from 6 to 8 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 
219. Anyone is welcome to attend. Anyone interested in taking scuba diving lessons should attend an informational meeting today at 6:30 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 218. A downhill ski trip to Swiss Valley will be held on Friday, Jan. 25, bnginning at 5:30 p.m. Sign up by today. Cost is $10 for lift tickets 
(I) 
a; ~ 
~ 
1----­
Mike Miller 

want to appear to be luring him back. "lf somebody is in school somewhere else, and you try 
and encourage them to leave, that would be tampering," Notre Dame spokesman John Heisler said Thursday. "lf you do that, you've got some serious problems happening with the NCAA." 
Assistant athletic director Missy Conboy said the school sent Miller a letter instructing him to obtain Houston's per­mission before contacting the university for readmission. 
"He would be evaluated in a purely academic perspective," Conboy said. 
In Dallas, Southwest Conference compliance official Britton Banoswky said Miller would not lose any eligibility should he return to Notre Dame at midterm. 

"Because he originally signed with Notre Dame, there would be no penalty if he simply wants to return," Banoswky said. "He never signed with Houston, so there is no interest to protect." 
If he remained at Houston, he would loose two years of eligi­bility, athletic department offi­cials say. 
Heisler said there's little chance the admissions office would accept Miller at mid­semester. 
"If he is going come back, the most logical thing would be to come back in January," he said. "If that's the case, he could play spring football and run track if he wants to. 
and $8 for ski rental. A cross country ski clinic will be held today at 4 p.m. on the ND golf course. Cost is $4 for the clinic and $2 for ski rental. Sign up by noon today. For further information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. Sample the sensational! Tryout one of the NVA aerobics classes today for free-Call NVA at 239-6100 for details. 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes (ND/SMC) will be meeting Thursday at 7 p.m. in the basement of Pangborn. Bring a friend. You don't have to be athletic. BYOB (Bring Your Own Bible). more fun than Circus Lunch. Questions? Call Mark Zoia at x1606 or Cathy Bradshaw at x4088. 
You'll be surprised byall the things that comeconnected toanIBM PersonalSystem. 

(JtwyearofmainIerum ce 1111 any/()<}(}-/<J<J2 Mazda car or truck purchase. 
When you're looking for a per­sonal computer, make sure to look at all it comes with. The preloaded soft­ware. The mouse. The hard drive. The !!:ames. The discount airline tickets. Tlw long distance service. 
If these aren't the kinds of con­rwetions you were thinking of, maybe you should think again. Because now when you buy an IBM PS/2® 
Up to offAmerican Airlines'' tickets. 
computer game sl?ftware. 
you'll get a special Bonus Pack** of coupons that'll save you money on all kinds of things, from airfare to long distance calls to computer games and more. So you can own a personal computer with all the right connec­tions. 
UNIVERSITY of HQTRE DAHE 
COMPUTER 


-----®
---_.__ 
_ ----­
_.._,_ 
'ThiS offer IS available to nonprofit h1gher education lnSIIIUIIons. lhe1r students. faculty and staff. as well as to nonprofit K 12 lnSIIIUIIons. lhe1r faculty and staff 
These IBM Selected Academic Solullons are available through pari1C1pa11ng campus outlets 
Orders are subtecllo ava1lab1hly and IBM may Withdraw Ihe offer at any l1me Without not1ce. ''The Bonus Pack exp1res Decem 
ber 31. 1991 IBM and PS/2 are reg1stered trademarks and PS/1 1s a trademark of lnlernallonal Bus1118SS Mach1nes Corporallon. All other brand and product names 
are registered trademarks or trademarks of lhe~r respective owners. ©19911BM Corp. 
j 
page 25 

ND hockey opens season tonight 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame hockey team opens its 1991-92 home cam­paign tonight with a 7:30 matchup with Wisconsin-Eau Claire at the Joyce Fieldhouse. 
The Irish (1-1) split a two­game series with Air Force last weekend at Colorado Springs, dropping the opener 8-3 Friday night before rebounding for a 5-3 victory on Saturday. 
Notre Dame has already suf­fered critical injuries in the young season. Starting goalie Greg Louder, last year's team MVP as a freshman, is out with a broken hand, while senior center David Bankoske-who tallied a goal and an assist in the season opener-suffered a fractured arm in the second Air Force game and is sidelined in­definitely. 
Junior Carl Picconato, who played only nine minutes all of last year in the net, took over for Louder on Friday, but don't be surprised to see sophomore Brent Lothrop (Saturday's goalie) start for Notre Dame. 
With the injuries, the Irish turn to senior winger Lou Zadra to pick them up. Zadra had three goals and two assists in the two games against the Falcons, extending to 11 a per­sonal streak in which he has at least tallied one point. 
Following Friday's game, the Irish will have a week off before tangling with New Hampshire, ranked 20th by the preseason Sporting News poll, at the Fieldhouse November 8­9. 

@@[L~ ®[}[J@[F) 
0\'iJ OO@IJ[Rl(g @~rMJ 
"On IM Curve" in IM Rockne Memorial 
Open Football Weekends Friday 6:30am-5:00pm ISatun:fay 6:30am-one hour before Sunday 6:30am -4:00pm 
QUALITY GIFTS FROM THE TOP NAMES IN GOLF CLASSIC NOTRE DAME WGOS 
WILSON TITLEIST RAM AU REUS PICKERING HAAS JORDAN TEXACE 
.. 

AND MANY MORE 
TM Goi{Silop a1 Notu ~i.J OfUn Mat'ch I tlrru Clvi.rbrwu. "'fWI liM of quality Notu DDIM appar•l and sifts 
tlw solfor i• aWJii<Jb/4. For mor• illfonnaJion 011 tJw u.u....nt,·. solf cows• and pro :Jilop, c;JU: 

-.

(219)239·6425 
~-~--~~-­

page 26 The Observer Friday, November 1 , 1991 
Men's interhall playoffs begin with two games Sunday 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
It's playoff time for the men's interhall football league, with two opening round games tak­ing place Sunday at Stepan Filed. 
Rockne division co-champion Fisher meets Zahm in the first game, and in the second game Leahy division foes face off when champion Planner faces Off-Campus. 
The Planner-Off-Campus matchup could be the day's most interesting as it is the second meeting between the two teams. In the teams' first meeting Planner dominated the Crime 20-3. Off-Campus was unable to stop receivers Mike Thompson and Scott McCarthy in the first game and the Planner offense is preparing for a switch in the Crime's defense scheme. 
"We are expecting them to try and double team Scott," said quarterback Clarke Warren. "We expect Mike Thompson to have a big day if that happens." 
Warren also put emphasis on the need for the offense to gen­erate points quickly as they did in the first game. "We need to take control of the game in the first quarter like last game." said Warren. 
Defensively, Planner has added a number of different de­fensive schemes in an effort to stop Off-Campus tailback Rusty but not the only person who can hurt you offensively," said Warren. 


Off-Campus was enigmatic about their strategies for the game but put emphasis on the tremendous respect they had for Planner. 
"The whole squad has a lot of respect for Planner, they are a good team." said coach Steve Fortunato. "We expect to do a lot better than the previous game." 
Fortunato also feels this game 
Rusty Setzer 
is key matchup for his team as Setzer, who did not play in the 
it attempts to repeat as inter­hall champions. "If we win
team's first meeting. "We have talked to a number Sunday, we expect to win the whole thing." 
of teams who played against The Zahm-F_isher matchup
Rusty and they all said that he is a main part of their offense, will be a showcase of some of the leagues best talent. Fisher boasts the skills of quarterback Rick Ebert and tailback Curtis Baker and wide receiver Renzy Smith. Zahm counters with a backfield led by quarterback Chris Hammon and running back Matt Seng. 
Both teams have put extra defensive emphasis on minimiz­ing the success these players will have qffensively. 
"Basically we are still running the same old defense" said Zahm coach Kevin Casey. "But we have put a lot of effort into our pass defense." 
Fisher also puts emphasis on stopping the Zahm passing at­tack. "We hear they pass quite a bit, and we have done a little 
see IH, p.22 

~CVTT~UT.i[t= $3.501--......
Howard leads pack into interhall playoffs 
By ELAINE DEBASSIGE 
Sports Writer 
Top-seeded Howard heads up against eighth-seeded Lewis in the first round of women's in­terhall football action Sunday. 
Howard enters post-season play with a 4-1 record. They lost their only game in their last contest of the season to Off­Campus. However, they have regrouped and are ready to face Lewis. 
Pasquerilla East vs. Siegfried 
In this rematch, P.E. will try to avenge a regular-season loss to Siegfried. 
Fourth-seeded Siegfried will be led by rookie Marce McNeil. _The Slammers finished their 
.. 
season 3-2. 
P.E. lost to Siegfried 21-P earlier this season and would like more than ever to win this match. 
Walsh vs. Breen-Phillips 
This game is another rematch. Walsh won by six points. 
Walsh earned the same record as Howard to be co-champs of the Gold division. has made a 360 degree turnaround from last season, during which they were not able to win. Walsh is seeded 
third. 
to twenty points. 
to repeat. 
Big laughs 

Scottsdale Mall • 
Off-Campus vs. Pasquerma . k
11
West 

come 1n sma pac ages. 
P.W., who won the Blue title, 
/C)URLY~UE 
faces Off-Campus in this ap-~ eJ­
parent mismatch. -Daily 5:15, 7:15, 9:15 ~® 115 315 515
The Plaid Wave, who were Sat, Sun ' • ' • ' • 7'15•9=15
upset in the semifinals, in 1990, ..____________L.L._...;.;;;;.;;;~;;,;.;;:;;,,;;;:;.;.::::~::..,-J 
bring a stingy defense to face the Crime. 

WIN FREE PIZZA! 
ORDER THIS WEEK AND YOU'RE REGISTERED TO WIN A FREE PIZZA EVERYDAY FOR THE REST OF THE SEMESTER! 


NOBODY 
KNOWS 
LIKE 
®DOMINO'S.m

·­
HowYou Like Pizza At Home. 
All Shows 
291·4583 Before 6 pm
Ern..
~ 
~~ 
~(ZA~J:;4)
~Tl,l~~4) 
!Pr;j 
Daily 5, :00. :00
00, 
79 Sat, Sun 1:00,3:00,5:00,1:00, 9,00 

THE SIZE YOU ORDER IS THE SIZE PIZZA YOU MAY WIN. 
r---------------,
I 16" PARTY SIZE I : ONE TOPPING PIZZA :
!lit $6.99 ! 
Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participating stores only. 1I Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valid with any1 other offer. Lirmted delivery area to ensure safe driving. I 
r--~~----------, 
I 14" LARGE I 
I I
ONE TOPPING PIZZA 
I I I I I emoo $5.99 I 
I I 
Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participating stores only. I Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valid with any IL other offer. Lirniled delivery area to ensure safe driving. -:
r-------------­
1 12" MEDIUM 1 
I 

ONE TOPPING PIZZA : 
I 

I I II® $4.99 : 
1 Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participatin~ stores only. 1 Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valtd with any 
1 .J1 
L other offer. Lirniled delivery area to ensure safe driving. 
\ 


'/ 2 '-( -# . ' ! 
I ) 



An anniversary supplement to The Observer Friday, November 1, 1991 

rou 
ears 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
I 
t's lunchtime, or close to it. People make their way to the dining halls, to classes, to the 
Administration Building know­
ing there will be an Observer 
waiting. 
It had better be. 
As The Observer celebrates its 25th 
anniversary this weekend, it is 
interesting to note just how it is taken 
for granted that the newspaper will be 
there. It's always been. Sure, the 
newspaper is occasionally late on 
Fridays. It might even be late other days 
too. 
But it's always there. 
It hasn't always been that way. 
In 25 years, The Observer has faced countless trials that threatened much more than making deadline. Battles with the Administration, rifts between staff members and financial difficulties have posed serious challenges to editors, forcing them to make decisions that changed the face of the newspaper. 
Driven by a desire for editorial independence the founders of The Observer started on Nov. 3, 1966, a newspaper that would appeal to "the liberal"-a man "who is wary of ideolo­gies and absolutes." The founders sought to free themselves from an Administration bent on tightening its reigns on campus media. 
Founders Robert Sam Anson and Stephen Feldhaus were more than 
renegades, though. Each brought experience to help shape the newspaper. 
Anson had interned with Time 
Magazine and guided the news 
department of Scholastic magazine. 
Feldhaus had been editor of The Voice, 
The Observer's predecessor. The Voice 
had been published from 1963 to 1966, 
and was distributed twice weekly at its 
demise. 

And as the founders wanted to be the best, they stacked the staff with top writers and editors lured from Scholastic with the promise of breaking new ground at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Feldhaus also brought some of The Voice's staff with him to The Ob­server. 
The result was a nervy, antagonistic 12 pages that would test all waters. The founders jumped head-first into a sea of editorial topics from co-education to sexual liberation. The stance was lib­eral, the tone harsh. 
But the newspaper wasn't always infuriating the Administration. 
Amid the news, sports and editorials, the first Observers featured an "Observed" column spotlighting an attractive girl-of-the-week. She was attractive, bubbly and ready to date. 
A student-faculty board was created to keep the newspaper in line in the wake of a controversial article (reprinted from a Berkeley, Calif. news­paper) about sexual freedom that con­tained a quote encouraging people to "screw with love" and advising that "watching someone else screw can be very enlightening." 
When Anson and the original staff graduated, funding became a greater priority as the newspaper's staff saw a critical need to establish editorial inde­pendence through financial stability. 
The Student Senate established the subscription fee that is still collected from the student body. Advertising revenue also increased, and the news­paper published tri-weekly in 1967. Finally, in the 1968-69 publishing year, The Observer went daily. 
In September 1970, crisis struck...hard. The pressure of producing a daily newspaper was enormous. Trying to improve the quality of each issue had taken its toll on David Bach, the editor-in-chief, who abruptly 
.resigned and temporarily suspended publication on Sept. 29. 
I 
n a dramatic and ironic turn of events, The Observer was saved-by the man who started it. On campus by coincidence, 
Anson learned of the suspen­~ion and lent his support and counseling to the distraught staff. 
By Oct. 1, The Observer resumed publication with a new editor-in-chief, Glen Corso, and a wealth of ideas to improve the newspaper. 
The 1970s were a much-welcome era of calmer Observers, sort of. 
While the paper grew steadily, it still became mired in the controversial topics of the 1960s. The newspaper was condemned by the archbishop of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese for quoting feminist profanity and running 
a pro-abortion advertisement. 
In fact, controversial advertising became the norm. Drinking establishments and breweries joined the ranks of adult bookstores and porno­graphic movie houses each day in Observer advertisements. 
The apparent acceptance of such. advertising by the administration would be short-lived, however. The 1980s and 1990s would put a more vocal admin­istration at odds with editors over ads for alcoholic beverages and homosexual groups. 
At the same time, bits and pieces of Observer history was being made. 
The first column by Father Robert Griffin appeared on Feb. 3, 1972. Although he would later adopt the title which remains today, "Letters to a Lonely God," Griffin began his career at The Observer with a piece titled, "A Priest of Limited Credentials." 
By the mid-1970s, the newspaper was in and out of debt and in and out of editorial issues. 
A consensus of political apathy not seen in the tumultuous 1960s influenced the shift toward a more objective product. The Observer continued to voice opinions on the editorial pages, but gradually shied away from allowing the liberal philosophy to pervade the news. 
As the 1970s came to a close, the first female editor-in-chief, Marti Hogan, was chosen, opening previously closed doors to women at Notre Dame. 
see HISTORYI page 4 
' 
1 
I 
J i 
l 
/ 

-~·---~~~~~~~~~--------------­

25 Years o·r The:Obser, 
11977]
September 23,1888-The Observer begins to use the Universal Press ­International (UPI) service to expand its coverage of the news of the day. 
' 

THE OBSERVER 
~ -··---~~­
... ~ ;!..~ ­
8 a.m.-The Observer office opens for business when Office Manager Shirley Grauel arrives. During the day classifieds and advertisements are accepted and stories are written. 
10:30 a.m.-12,000 copies of The Observer are delivered to 
campus from The Papers in Milford, Ind., by PDQ Delivery. 
\ 


8 a.m. 


computers to create the ads which will run in the next day's paper. 
8 p.m.-Reporters and copy editors come in to begin working on the next day's paper. News and sports editors start scanning the Associated Press wire for stories. 
8:15p.m.-The Editorial Board meets to discuss the day's paper, plan for future issues and debate editorial issues. 
1887-88-The Observer publishes three times a week in 1967 and then moves to producing daily issues during 1968-69. 
November 3, 1988-The Observer is born and begins to publish on a bi-weekly basis. 
THE OBSERVER 
October 27, 1988-The Voice dies. The Voice, The Observer's predecessor, was published from 1963 through 1966. 

11 a.m.-1:30 p.m.-The Observer is delivered to over 40 locations at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's.· 
11 a.m.-3 p.m.-The Day Editor contacts reporters and assigns future stories. Editors and other staff members take care of daily business and prepare for the next day's paper. The advertising office solicit ads on the campus and South Bend community. 
·-·· 

·Observer 
page 3 
1gan 

OCtober 20, 1983-The ·female 
Fall1880-Shirley 

Observer is put on the the Office Grauel becomes 
University's Budget Unit Manager for The 
Control system and no Observer. longer has free reign over
Jan. 27, 30, 1978 
its finances. 
The Observer does not publish 
1985-Student because of a 
Government attempts blizzard. 
September 8, 1985­
to make The Observer The Observer 
a part of Student Charter is passed 
Senate. 
Fall, 1988-The new alcohol policy forbids 
the advertisement of alcohol in The Observer. 
May, 1990-For the first time, an Observer issue is produced entirely on 
Macintosh computers. 1988-Dr. Roland Smith appointed 
l.............. ,.....
,_... ,_,.,...
Spring 1991-The

as liason between 
• , iJMF"*' IIOMo 
.....d,_ __
Some People 
~K~•~": 
Thinks Gays are 
·~p)po<>pk.JIIP<l
Observer and 
Administration 

Crazy and Like 
:..:=.r.~ 
to Wear Dresses 
·-­
~~;..~"::;:.'
Administration. 
imposes restrictions 

........ 
~-,_loU_._
d..._._..._, 
c.~.._ ~­
..,..,...r
on advertising in 

-,....a.~.,.,.oMkl
...,
'--11 
Wc....,.,•.bK.-: 
roo:oypM'I C:IWII ......
The Observer by 

dlpcllt<lll'yool~­
:::: IJofO!ry MOd IY 
-ld-lh.o:IM
Gays and Lesbians --­
E="""'*....i.!.":':::!
Fall 1991-The Observer 
__ ..._... __
at Notre Dame and Who's Crazy?celebrates its 25 th 
~:!:..;.:.:..... :..:.-.~:.:..: 
''"" Olio<• '"' 10 I
Saint Mary's. 

lf•to• Oo•• IN Ul ..
....._--.......-­
Anniversary. 
11991 ·1-· 



j9:30 a.m.. j 

fJI'VBI' 
14:30 a.m.

uork goes into fhe Observer 
11 a.m. 

19 p.m. 
7-9 p.m.-Final changes are made on Viewpoint and Accent pages before they are designed on the computer. 

~ditors 
a ted 
eets f's :ure 
4:30a.m.-PDQ Delivery picks up The Observer and drives it to The Papers in Milford, Ind. 
9 p.m.-3a.m.-Sports and news stories are written and edited, then the pages are designed and laid out. On any given night there are at least eight editors, four design editors, four ad designers, two typesetters, one graphics editor, one illustrator, two photographers and one lab technician who work together to put out The Obser-Ver-not to mention the countless reporters and editors who also contribute to what goes into The Observer. 
6:30a.m.-9:30a.m.-The Observer is printed and then driven back to campus to be delivered once again. 
• 
' .. .:·: .-~:.•. 
'' ­
-

25 Years of The Observer 
page 4 Friday, November 1, 1991 
When in doubt, ask Shirley 
By ALISON COCKS tion makes her feel important training was in the hands of the 
Editor-in-Chief 1990-91 and needed, and, above all, not students. 
J 
taken for granted. "They'd show me something ohn O'Brien, Accent Some of her acquaintances at and then go to class for three Editor of The Notre Dame wonder how hours," notes Shirley. "I always Observer, poses beside Shirley, at 45, can work for a said if I could make through the Shirley Grauel's desk, student-run organization. For first year, I could make it 
crooning, "You ain't her, this arrangement is more through anything." nothin' but a hound dog ... " fun than working in an envi­Ten years later, the classified 
Another student editor ronment like the one at program is much improved, as perches on the couch across American Motors, her previous is The Observer's filing system, from her desk, willing the employer. thanks to Shirley's efforts. hands of the clock to reach Answering to a different Organizing The Observer's files 
12:25 p.m., when she and student editor-in-chief every and the accounts receivable Shirley will begin another at­year is preferable to working system has demanded her at­
tempt to win a Sunny 101.5 T­competitively with people her tention and enthusiasm. 
shirt in the station's "Lunchtime own age, she says. "Shirley is The Observer's 
Gold" contest. Relating to the student editors greatest asset," says 1988-89 
Two students, confused by the professionally is easy, she says, Editor-in-Chief Chris Murphy. setup of the classified program, because she doesn't think of Chris Donnelly, editor-in-chief seek Shirley's help. An them as students first. Nor, in for 1989-90, concurs. "We al­
advertiser asks for the ad sales many instances, do they. ways think we're in trouble if clerk. Two telephone lines both "I don't see any generation the Linotype breaks down or i ring at once. It's business as gap," she says. A look of sur­the system crashes. We're really 
I 
usual for The Observer's office prise passes over her face as screwed if Shirley quits." 
r manager. she counts the 20 to 25 years Shirley keeps in touch with Although she is one of many she has on most of the staff. many of The Observer's former bookkeepers at the University of "Oh, well," she shrugs, "They staff members. Last fall, 1985­
l 
Notre Dame, Shirley is unique. keep me young." 86 Editor-in-Chief Sarah For the last 10 years she has Her first year at The Observer Hamilton Magill brought her says. use it is a pet peeve, she admits. been the only non-student was the most difficult, she infant son to The Observer's Some mornings Shirley is But even when she becomes employed full-time at The recalls. office to see Shirley. 1983-84 concerned about why the new irritated, she is usually able to Observer. She had to master a new Editor-in-Chief Dave Dziedzic invoice program won't print laugh. The antics of ten years of 
"I wouldn't have any other computer system the students stopped by with his then­files correctly, and which mem­student editors provide enough job," she says. Shirley themselves didn't yet grasp and fiancee to take her to lunch. ber of the sports department cause for amusement, even on maintains that working for an organize the disastrous filing "I get too attached to the staff left a mess on her desk the the bad days. entirely student-run organiza-system her predecessor left every year. It's hard to say night before. Cleaning up her "I could write a book," she 
behind. It didn't help that her goodbye to the seniors," she work area after the students declares. 

Who ever said being a SMC Editor would be easy? 
The women who 
Mary's campus. Murphy was able to at Saint Mary's, it took a long time to get and people realized the services and take on the position employ five day editors when the the process to run smoothly." information that was available," she of Saint Mary's Edi­newspaper opened an office in the base­Over the years the paper has said. "Due to size, Saint Mary's doesn't tor for The Observer ment of Regina Hall. maintained a strong working hold prominence in the paper, but find themselves faced Even after the office was established, relationship with College having the opportunity to make an with a unique set of it did not meet all of the needs of the administration. impact with coverage is rewarding." challenges and staff. "The administration was very Since most of the production of the rewards. supportive of what I was trying to do," paper takes place at the Notre Dame 
F l u c t u a t i n g Emily Willett "The office in the basement of Regina said Corrine Pavlis, 1990-91 editor. office, Saint Mary's editors dedicate p~rticipation and the Saint Mary's Editor South was really not conducive (to "Many people had given up on Saint themselves to making regular trips to dtstance from the__________ getting work done). We had two desks Mary's coverage in The Observer, and I Notre Dame. main office has plagued the staffs over and a manual typewriter to work with," credit Dr. Hickey (College president) the years while administrative support said Margaret Brassil, editor from 1980-with giving me the support that was "I don't know how many quarters I and newsworthy events encouraged edi­81. necessary. He allowed me to attend an used to get to and from editorial board tors. In 1986 the office moved to Haggar administrative meeting to talk about the meetings," says Gill. 
Coverage over the years has been College Center. paper, and was open to help (the stam Overall, most Saint Mary's editors said limited by the size of the staff at Saint The 1989 addition of a Saint Mary's whenever he could." the positive experiences their position Mary's. computer joined by modem to The Past editors say that their experiences outweighed the negative. 
"My staff consisted of only two Observer network provided convenience were worthwhile in terms of the impact "I wouldn't change my experiences at women," said Prue Wear Farrell, 1970-as well as frustrations for the staff. that they had on the community. The Observer. The job was a great confi­71 editor. "Establishing the computer system Gill said that one of the greatest dence builder and helped me after I 
Jean Powell Murphy had a staff of was one of the challenges I rewards of her position wa~ feeling the graduated," said Marjorie Kersten approximately 20 reporters from 1977 encountered," said Christine Gill, 1989-impact that she could make at Saint Green, editor from 1986 to 1987. to 1979. 90 editor. Mary's through greater coverage in the "Working for the paper was one of the 
Finding a place to work also limits the "The Observer was changing to a new newspaper. best parts of going to college." Saint Mary's staff. Prior to 1977 the computer system. Since the system was "We covered an AIDS Awareness Michelle Clemente contributed to this staff did not have an office on the Saint new at the Notre Dame office as well as program that Wellness was sponsoring, story. 
History 
continued from page 1 
An Observer legend was also established at this time with the 1977 debut of Michael Molinelli's "Molarity," a cartoon that would become enormously popular on campus. 
The 1980s were greeted with open, and female, arms. Shirley Grauel joined The Observer in the Fall of 1980 as Office Manager. Eleven years later, Shirley not only runs the office but acts as surrogate mother to-­many staffers. 
In the '80s The Observer also faced its last, and perhaps worst, financial crisis. 
A request by the 1982-83 edi­torial staff to raise the sub­scription fee by $1 led to a re­view of the newspaper's books by the University's internal au­dit department. The review found sloppy bookkeeping and a $7,000 deficit. 
The review also revealed im­proper spending of Observer funds, including unauthorized bonuses and the issuing of an interest-free loan to a staff member. 
The Administration re­sponded with an ultimatum to The Observer's 1983-84 staff to join the Budget Unit Control system of the University or lose all student fees. 
While student editors viewed this as a means for the Uni­versity to take control the newspaper, the reality of the si­tuation mandated that they agree or lose more than their independence. Hanging over the staff's heads was both the loss of student fees and rent-free office space. 
By the end of 1984 The Ob­server was operating under the University's budget system, op­erating on strong financial footing-and still editorially in­dependent. 
T 
he 1988 revision of the University's alcohol policy caused one of the biggest conflicts between editors and the Administration of the decade. Although the newspaper was still editorially free of the Administration, the change in the alcohol policy challenged this independence. 
With the new alcohol policy came a statement that campus media could no longer accept alcohol advertisements. The Observer, having profited con­siderably from such advertise­ment in the past, fought the edict unsuccessfully. 
Losing the battle was one thing, but the paper did not fall under total administrative con­trol as feared. 
The Observer continues to op­erate without an advisor. Unlike other student media, The Observer is overseen by the Of­fice of the President. Since 1988, Dr. Roland Smith has served as The Observer's con­nection to the University. 
The philosophy of the edito­rial staff also shifted at the on­set of the 1990s. A stronger commitment to making The Observer truly a campus paper led to a resurgence in campus news coverage and a gradual decline in Associated Press sto­ries. 
With this commitment came a greater emphasis on writing and editing, with continued re­visions made to the stylebook first developed by the 1985-86 staff. 
Special sections, series work and features spreads have also become characteristic of The 
Observer of the 1990s. 

Debate on homosexuality has been prevalent thus far into the 1990s, as the fierce battle be­tween the Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC} has found its way to Observer pages. 
T 
he Spring of 1991 found The Observer again at odds with the Administration over advertising. As GLND/SMC is an unrecognized group, the Administration set limits on their advertising as an University organization in the newspaper. 
To this C.ate, the group has continued to advertise by cir­cumventing the University's stipulations. 
As Notre Dame began its sesquicentennial celebration this year, The Observer also marked a milestone: the 25th anniversary of publication. Editors from the past 25 years will be reunited this weekend for the celebration. 
In its 25th year, The Observer is stronger than ever. Issues range from 20 to 24 pages daily, with last year's Miami game issue (Oct. 19) breaking the 40­page barrier. Advertising revenues have never been higher, allowing the purchase of a state-of-the-art linotronic 300 typesetter among other advancements. 
Almost 200 students are in­volved in the day-to-day pro­duction of the newspaper. For some, the involvement is a full­time job. For others, it is just a chance to be a part of a truly chaotic, exciting and rewarding organization. 
This commitment is seen in every issue. And if the reaction is somewhat hard to gauge, if the feeling persists that the pa­per is taken for granted, one need only listen to the com­plaints when the paper is late to know that The Observer is a needed and vital part of University life. 
The founders said it in their first headline in 1966: "A Promise, A Purpose, A Newspaper is Born." 
Twenty-five years later, the headline could be modified slightly: 
"A Promise, A Purpose, A Newspaper Lives On." 
Research by Alison Cocks. editor-in-chief 1990-91. con­tributed to this story. 

I R I S H I 





A Supplement to The Observer 
Friday, November 1, 1991 
GAME INFO 
THE GAME: Navy (0-7) at Notre Dame (7-1 ). 
TIME: 4:00p.m. EST. 
TV & RADIO: NBC (Dick Enberg, Bill Walsh. John Dockery) will televise the game live to a national audience. Host Creative Communications (Jim Henderson, Paul Hornung) will replay the game on numerous syndicated SportsChannel stations, including WNDU-TV in South Bend (12:30 a.m. EST Monday) and SportsChannel Chicago (8 a.m. EST Sunday) . The Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) will broadcast the game to 280 stations across the country, including AM-1490 and AM-960 in South Bend and WMAO-AM in Chicago. 
TICKETS: Notre Dame Stadium, which holds 59,075, is sold out for the 99th consecutive time. 
RANKING$: Notre Dame: NCSW 5th,· AP 5th. Navy: NCSW unranked; AP unranked. 
THE SERIES: Notre Dame leads 54-9­
1. and has won 27 in a row. 
THE LAST TIME: Notre Dame 52, Navy 31. 
\LAST WEEK: Navy fell to Delaware 29­25, despite scoring first for the seventh 
, time this season. Navy's 0-7 start is the worst since 1948, when the Midshipmen went 0-8-1. Saturday will be the fourth time in the 66 meetings that a winless Navy team enters the Notre Dame game. 
1991 SCHEDULES 
i NOTRE DAME Sept. 7 INDIANA w49-27 Sept. 14 at Michigan L 14-24 Sept. 21 MICHIGAN STATE w49·10 Sept. 28 at Purdue W45-20 Oct. 5 at Stanford w42·26 Oct. 12 PITTSBURGH W42·7 Oct. 19 at Air Force w28·15 Oct. 26 SOUTHERN CAL W24M20 Nov. 2 NAVY (52-31) Nov. 9 TENNESSEE (34·29) Nov. 16 at Penn State (21·24) Nov. 30 at Hawaii (DNP)  
NAVY Sept. 7 BALL STATE L 10·33 Sept. 14 at Virginia L 10-17 Sept. 21 WilLIAM &MARY L 21·26 Sept. 28 BOWLING GREEN L 19·22 Oct. 12 AIR FORCE L6-46 Oct. 19 atTemple L 14·21 Oct. 26 DELAWARE L 25·29 Nov. 2 at Notre Dame (31-52) Nov. 9 at Tulane (ONP) Nov.23 WAKE FOREST {ONf>} Dec. 7 ARMY (20-30) .'}:''''''' . )''''?:•llfl•  

Taylor aims for intensity 
Looks to relax, improve up and down play 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
When sophomore Aaron Taylor arrived on campus last August, he had the same aspirations as any high school star does. 
But with two-time honorable mention All-American Tim Ryan in front of him, his dreams had to be put on hold for a while. 
"I had to be realistic," Taylor, now the starting left guard for Notre Dame. "My first year, I just had to come in and learn everything I could, and Tim was a real good teacher. He had a great understanding of the game, and it helped me a lot trying to emulate him." 
He's ofT to a good start. 
A first-team All-American selection by USA Today his senior season at DeLaSalle High School in Concord, Cal., Taylor emerged from spring drills as the only non-senior in the starting offensive line. But success early in his Irish career has not dulled the sophomore's desire to improve. 

"I've played well, but not as well as I can or should have been," Taylor mind wanders a lit.tln bit. and hn ha::. Iii~ 1-''~rlurmaucc a~<~inst Southnrn said. "I'm working hard, though, to learn to discipline himself better." Cal last Saturday was typical of the because if I'm only playing well now, Taylor so far has had an up-and­type of year he's had. His block was 
I'd love to see what happens when I down 1991 season. He was named crucial in springing Jerome Bettis on start playing up to my potential." NBC/Chevrolet co-MVP against a 53-yard touchdown run in the first 
"He's made progress, but like all Pittsburgh, and has been instrumental quarter. But he also drew an illegalsophomores, he still has mental in opening holes for an Irish rushing procedure penalty when Notre Dame errors," concurred offensive line attack that is ranked fifth nationally was trying to punch the ball out from coach Joe Moore. "He has all the tools in yards per game (295.4). But like deep in its own territory.it takes to be a truly outstanding any first-year starter, Taylor is still "That was a dumb sophomore
player-the physical and the mental prone to mental breakdowns-proof mistake, and I'm playing with a bunch toughness-but like all young kids, his that he still has learning to do. of seniors," Taylor said. "I have 10 other guys who are counting on me to go ofT on the snap count, and that's a disappointment for me because I know I let them down." 
Moore stresses mental discipline, . Cconfidence and pride as the keys to 41' success for any great player, and · Taylor has taken those words to heart. He understands that to eliminate the "dumb sophomore mis­takes" In his play, he needs to develop 
more confidence In his own ability. 
"I undersell myself sometimes, and I can't do that," Taylor explained. "I need to go out on the field and feel sorry for the guy who's lining up -. across from me because I know I'm 
• going to kill him. I go out there and I'm a little passive and worry too much, and takes a little away from my game. 
"But I'm getting better at it, and I'm starting to play better because of that." 
Moore also has noticed the improvement In Taylor's play, but like any coach, he pushes for more. 
"We have some tough games : coming up, and he's going to have to .. improve his level of play some," 
Moore said. "He's starting to develop pride In his performance and that's important, because if you have pride, you're never going to accept getting beat-you won't make any excuses. 
"Fear of failure motivates you, but you have to be confident that you can 
The Obll:ervtlt'/Oa.vld 

'succeed and pride in what you do, 
Jerome Bettis (6) scampers through a hole in the Southern Cal line-a hole opened see TAYLOR! page 4 
by the block of Irish sophomore Aaron Taylor (75}--as Rick Mirer (far left) looks on. 

.. 

Irish Football '91 
page 2 Friday, November 1, 1991 
Call him the workhorse 
Two-sport star lrv Smith gives his all at tight end 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
It is destined to make Notre Dame highlight nlms for years. 
A simple pass to the tight end became a breathtaking show as junior Irv Smith charged 25 yards into the end zone with half the Indiana defense on his back. 
In that play, Smith (6-5, 233) displayed skill, strength, and sheer determination and truly exemplified the Notre Dame spirit. More importantly, Smith has continued to play with the same intensity since that first game. 
"He's going to give you every­thing he's got on every play," said offensive line coach Joe Moore. "You've got to put him on the ground because he doesn't fall down." 
As the primary backup to All­American candidate Derek Brown, Smith has seen limited playing time in his stay at Notre Dame, but he has certainly made the most of his time on the field. In his freshmen campaign, he logged time in all thirteen games, including two special teams appearances in the Orange Bowl. 
Again last year, he played in every game, with a six-yard re­ception against USC and a nine­yard catch in the 1991 Orange Bowl. 
Smith started out this year's season with a stellar perfor­mance against the Hoosiers. In addition to the now-famous 58­yard reception, he caught an­other for 10 yards. He also has caught a pair of two-yard touchdown passes against Michigan State and Pittsburgh, bringing his season total to four receptions for 72 yards. 
"He works hard and does what he is supposed to," said receivers coach Skip Holtz. "He has a good grasp for getting open, finding windows, and reading coverage." 
This summer, Smith travelled to Minnesota to watch the plaining about his playing time is his respect for starter Derek Brown. 
"He's a great player. I am looking forward to seeing him next year in the NFL. I am very anxious to watch his progress," said Smith of Brown. 
Smith's interest in Brown's success reflects his own visions of the future. He would like to play professional football, but more importantly, he would like to be selected in the rrrst round of the draft. 
If football doesn't work out, Smith might try his band at professional baseball. He has spent his springs playing for the Irish baseball team and will play again this year. Last year, he started 27 games as an out­fielder, hitting .178 with five homers. 

Smith's main goal for the re­mainder of the season and his career at Notre Dame is simple. 
"I want to improve and con­tinue to open eyes as well as doing as much as I can to help the team," said Smith. 
"He wants to be someone special and he is someone spe­cial," said Moore. 
The Obset'Ver!Oavid Lee 
Tight end lrv Smith (with ball) bowls through the Indiana defense in a play destined to appear in Irish highlight films for years to come. 
Vikings practice, and spent some time talking to former Notre Dame safety Pat Eilers. Eilers advised him that the people who stay around aren't necessarily the best players, but the ones that work the hardest. 
Smith has certainly taken this to heart. 
"The quality I have really tried to work on is being a hard worker," said Smith. "I have had good games, but I want to have good total games." 
Currently, Smith is working on improving his concentration in addition to bringing his blocking and receiving abilities up to the same level. 
According to Moore, "His blocking gets better every day," while Holtz has been very im­pressed with Smith's hands. 
"He catches the hall very, very well. He has great hands," said Holtz. 
His coaches hold Smith in the highest regard and are confi­dent that he will be successful. 
"Irv is ambitious, proud, and has outstanding athletic ability. Everything he does is pride. He is going to end up a truly great tight end," said Moore. 
"I think the thing that says the most about Irv," added Holtz, "is that he is good enough to be a starter at any school in the country. His time is limited where he is, but he doesn't complain. He is a pleasure to work with." 
One reason Smith isn't com­



' ' '~ ~.;. 
NOTRE DAME 

l..'~7~~::( 
FC

William Pollard
OFFENSE 
Chris Hart l Bill Yancey 
NAVY 

OLB Jl 
Mark Ellis 
DEFENSE 

(~ ~~dsay Knapp ' Jl 
Chad Guise '
t. r~ 

Todd Norman 
..Ji ~ 
-

QG FS ~ Aaron Taylor RT l Mark McGinnis Mike Riggins 
FB ~

., Robert Goodson 
Jerome Bettis Tim Ruddy Stacey Yopp • Ry~ Mlholko t. iL ' Jl 
ALB Jl
Byron Ogden Chris Beck ' 
• ' , gooeMoG"Iffi
R~ooM 

l.. l t.''r QB l.. l t. r~ ,,
Lance Johnson 
TB Rick Mirer 
l 
55

Rodney Culver Paul Failla , TG Dan Pidgeon Chad Chatios 
Willie Clark Kevin McDougal ~~ · Mirko Jurkovic Steve Sterlitz Chris Cordero Tony Brooks George Poorman ~ Mark Zataveski 
Jl 
LLB
t.a. MG ' Jl
David Shaw Javier Zuluaga 
TT 

K Justin Hall Craig Hentrich , Jordan Halter
<t ,, ' 
LT sc
t.a.
p 

Ches Snider Rodney Purifoy FLCraig Hentrich Chris Alexander Chris Cordero Lake Dawson 
Jim Sexton Adrian Jarrell · TE 

Jl
,\ Clint Johnson ~ Derek Brown OLB ' ll 

~f'~ lrv Smith Bob Kuberski l.. ( t. iL Oscar McBride David Stowers Jl The Observer !Brendan Regan 
Irish Football '91 
page 3 Friday, November 1, 1991 
Navy game plan puzzles Holtz 
Navy 
By DAVE DIETEMAN ran the wishbone on us for over dling the running duties for Sports Editor 200 yards, and they scored ev­Navy, plebe (freshman) Jim ery time they got the football. Kubiak started his second game Although Navy comes into So we're trying to see what as a Middie, and was 15-24 for Notre Dame Stadium this Navy will do. It's difficult to 154 yards with one in­weekend with an albatross of prepare a game plan for both. terception. In his three appear­an 0-7 record around its neck, This is unsettling going into ances, Kubiak is 26-55 for 242 
Numerical Roster 
Irish coach Lou Holtz is still practice, because we're dealing yards with no touchdowns and wary of the Midshipmen. in generalities." six interceptions. 
Name Pos Ht Wt 
1 Gwinn, Dave KS 5-9180 54 Gremillion, John OT 6-3 279 
A longtime friend of Naval Although Holtz and the Irish Van Mitre, meanwhile, had 
2 Yancey, Bill' DB 6-1 179 55 Ogden, Byron~ OLB 6·0 212 
Academy head coach George coaching staff may not know the been 37-77 for 432 yards, with 4 Smith, Cleavon FB 5+ 11 200 56 Dunaway, Oan" 00 6-3 252 
Chaump, Holtz expressed con­specific ways in which the five interceptions and two 5 VanMatre, J. • 08 5·10 160 57 Giebels, Tlm OG 6~3 250 
cern over how to prepare for Middies will utilize their assets, touchdowns. 
6 Triplett, J." P 6-0 192 58 Paxton, David LB 6-2 205 
the Middies' traditional routine they do know the players who Vinnie Smith, a junior from 
7Tate, Matt KS 5-10 204 59 Lanfll, Max OT 6-;7 273 
of pulling out all the stops for the Navy will be throwing at Durham, N.C., has also been a 8 Bolden, Che' WA 6-0 178 60 McMechan, 4 DT 6-3 260 
the Notre Dame game. them. bright spot at tailback for Navy 9 Mason, B.J." WA 5-8 160 «·,,,§ck!il!dm!t:J5.~kt.Q1G 6· 1 240' 
"Where Navy is concerned, Jason Van Matre, a sopho­this season, as he became the 10 Seoane, Steve 08 5-1 ~'~'~ii)Z their defense has played very more from Pensacola, Fla., first Middie back to rush for 111 well this year," said Holtz. started five of the first six over 100 yards In a game this 13 7iMIIY1A<M<'111'1 "They lost to Virginia 17-10, but games of the year at quarter­season, with 122 yards on 28 14 Ellis, they turned the ball over inside back for the Midshipmen, but carries against Delaware. Smith 15 Ellsworth, the Virginia 25 yard line was switched to tailback in the also scored two touchdowns
ngraham, ~~~iilliiiiilll
17 Spencer, 
numerous times. Their offense 29-25 loss to Delaware. Against against Delaware, and his 122 
19 Frosch, 
is where our dilemma comes in. the Blue Hens, Van Maitre yards were the most by a Navy 
20 Mattix, 
I don't care what their record rushed for 68 yards and a six­back in the past 25 games 21 Owens, 
is, George Chaump is an out­yard touchdown, in addition to (Alton Grizzard racked up 168 22 Cordero. . . 
standing football coach. hauling in eight catches for 52 yards against Air Force in 
23 Purifoy, Atitr .· .,· ••· ·•• .••.... 
"This is the same situation as yards. 1989). last year-they came out and While Van Matre was han-see NAVY /page 4
~: £~:::~!:i:l-;t1
28 Smart. Kevin FB 6·0 ...,. 
Navy seeks to end 27 years of ND wins 
29 Hines, Lionel TB 5-8 31 James. Billy TB 6·0 1 32 Aarnes. Bob F8 6-2 By ANTHONY KING 
have not always been easy ones Assistant Sports Editor for the Irish. 
l4 Kozub, Mike• FB Last year's skirmish between
3,s Lipsey, Steve DB 5-64234 
36 Smith, Vinnie TB 5+ 1 0 5-9187 Notre Dame will end its the two Is a prime example of MlkUWes TE 6"4 215 armed services tour this the intensity of the rivalry. The
37 Kuzniewski, C. DB 5+1 38 Guise, Chad OLB 6·2 195 Mit006wa1n. Erlo re 6-2 223 Saturday when the Irish face Naval Academy came Into last 39 Osaba. David FB 6·0 202 85 Gilless. Tony* TE 8-4 237 the Naval Academy. year's contest as a huge under­
40 Enis. Mafk' OLB 6-0 200 86 Arnone, James WR 5-9 18() The Irish will continue the dog, as the George Chaump led 41 Teft, Derek DB 5-11 184 88 Watkins, Bill WR 5-11 168 longest continuous intersec­Midshipmen had just lost to 42 Riggins, Mike' DB 5-10 164 89 Renick, Ty TE 6-2 225 tional rivalry in college football, James Madison, a Division 1-AA 
43 Jenkins, Byron• DB 5-9 185 90 Kuberski, Bob' OLB 6·5 267 with the Midshipmen and Irish school, being held to a mere 44 Sims, Lewis LB 6-0 194 91 Himelspach, S." LB 6·0 227 having met every year since seven points. 1927. On paper, the showdown In
45 Barnes, Lance OLB 6-2 220 92 Kral'l. Richard NT fH 23S 46 Stramanak, B.' FB 5-11 220 93 Marks, Wilson NT6·3 21$ In 1927, the Irish met the Roger Staubach Giants Stadium should have 47 Beck, Chris' L8 6-1 206 94 Zuluaga, Javier• LB 6-2 217 Middies In Baltimore for their been a blowout of monumental 
over Notre Dame was when
first-ever meeting. Knute proportions. The Navy came to
49 Williams, Jeff TB 5-6 166 95 Yopp, Stacey DT 6-2 250 
John F. Kennedy was president.
50 Prather, Dan OT 6·3 246 96 Wilson, Daryl OLB 5·1 0 211 Rockne and his Irish team play, however, and not without 
Then, Navy sailed into Notre
97 Formoso. John Or 6-0 248 would beat the Midshipmen 19-a few tricks up their sleeves. 
51 Stowers, David OLB 6-2 226 
Dame Stadium on November 2,
52 Mietus, Brett C 6-3 255 98 Kochendorfer, J. OT 6-4 229 6, and go on to win a national The normally dormant Navy
1963. The Midshipmen were
championship. offense awoke In the shape of
53 Lillefloren, D.' C 6-1 240 99 Serlltz, Steve OT 6-6 256 
ranked fourth and commanded
• indicates lettermen The Irish would then go on to the brand-new wishbone. 
by Roger Staubach, who
dominate this series, compiling Chaump brought out the wish­
orchestrated a 35-14 victory for 
54 victories and only nine bone especially for the Irish, in 
the Middies. 
losses. In fact, the Irish have order to control the ball. They
From 1964 to the present, the 
beaten the Midshipmen in the not only controlled the ball, but 
Naval Academy would not enjoy 
last 27 meetings. surprisingly gave the Irish a run 
L----------------.;.Th;.;.;&;..;O:;.;;b$t);;;;;..lll.;.;el\::..;IA:.;;n:.:.:.n:.::'M:.::an&::.:·::..··.:::OO.::••··.htado:.::·...,.:;:;~, The last time Navy triumphed single victory over Notre for their money. :::: a Dame. The victories, however, 
After Notre Dame scored on a Jerome Bettis run, the Midshipmen came back to even things up on a 1-yard run by
TE 

Jason Pace. The Midshipmen
Tony Giles

NAVY 
FCB 

again matched scores, as kicker 
' OLB
Kevin Hickman Rod Smith 

Frank Schenk evened the score
\-) Devon McDonald 
) Marvin Robinson
OFFENSE 
at 10 at halftime.
( Oliver Gibson ( Shawn Wooden
il 

lGermaine Holden
NOTRE DAME 

J 
Jl 

The second half became a of­
RE 

fensive highlight reel, as both
Eric Jones

DEFENSE 
offenses took command. The
Dean Lytle 

Irish came out in the second 
half firing. On the first three
~~ 
-

possessions, the Irish offense escorted the pigskin in to the
'lSLB I FS
~~~riVoss. 

end zone three times In less
D~metriu~ DuBose Jeff Burris FB ~J'f!' Dan Dunaway Bnan Rat1gan J. Covington 
than seven minutes. This gave the Irish a 31-10 lead, and what 
~"\ t. iL J 1"'"Gohoeo lChet Holli.t"
Brad Stramanak 
looked to be some breathing
Mike Kozub · 
room.
1 

The Academy would not die,
~~nior Bryant J 
and narrowed It to a 31-17 
\I ~ \ ~teve Palmer ~~Troy Ridgely
~ 

margin on an Alton Grizzard run. The offenses would con­tinue to trade punches, as they 
i l t_\~ i l t_\~ .Ji ~
Dave Lillefloren 

TB QB 
traded touchdown for touch­
Duke Ingraham Jason Van Matre 
down making the score 45-31.
Billy James Brian Ellis (4., ~~hael Davis MLB I ss Greg Davis 
The Midshipmen were running
l
LeShane Saddler 

~ Neal ) Pete Bereich 
out of time, however, and at­
( Jim Flanigant. iL Quackenbush 
tempted an onside kick. Todd 
~Jeremy Nau 
Jl 

Lyght picked up the kick and 
LE J .a 

did.n't stop running until he 
K 

Bryant Young 
reached paydirt to complete the
' 

Tim Rogers Peter Rausch 
scoring.
Dave Gwinn Bernard Mannelly 
I 
Overall, the Midshipmen outrushed the Irish gaining 222 
~ 
BCB 

yards to Notre Dame's 212. The 
p FL Tom Carter 
Notre Dame offense also had a
Tom Frosch 8J Mason OLB Greg Lane 
terrific performance, as they did 
Jefferson Triplett 
Jimmy Screen ) Anthony Peterson ~ Travis Davis 
not punt the entire game. 
( K. McGill 

Saturday, Navy hopes to build
\-Nick Smith 
Jl 

on last year's valiant effort into
il 
a victory in South Bend, and to
Jl 
The Ooserver/Brendan Regan 

end the 27 year drought. 
' 
.. 
-


Irish Football '91 
page 4 
Top six teams hold steady in NCSW poll 
Observer Staff Report 

10/27 10120 Team pet:el.votesJ Rec. Pts. Next game 
1. (1) Florida State [25] 8-0 720 11/2 at Louisville 
The top six teams remained 
2. (2) Miami[!] 7-0 684 1119 vs. West Virginia unchanged in this week's Na­3. (3) Washington [3) 7-0 683 11/2 vs. Arizona State tional Collegiate Sportswrit­4. (4) Michigan 6-1 634 11/2 vs. Purdue 
5. (5) Notre Dame 7-1 593 11/2 vs. Navy
ers' Poll. 

6. (6) Florida 5-1. 587 1112 at Auburn 
Florida State and Miami re­
7. (7) Penn State 7-2 512 11/9 at Marylandtained the top two spots, con­tie (8) Alabama 6·1 512 11/2 vs. Mississippi State tinuing on their November 9. (9) Nebraska 6-1 503 
1112 at Colorado 

10. (10) California 6-1 476 11/2 vs. Southern Cal 
16th collision course. The 
11. (11) Iowa 6-1 437 1112 at Ohio State Seminoles captured 25 first­12. (15) Texas A&M 5-1 369 1112 at Rice place votes and 720 total 13. (14) Ohio State 6-1 356 1112 vs. Iowa 
points, while the Hurricanes 14. (13) Tennessee 4-2 331 11/2 vs. Memphis State Clemson 5-1-1 11/2 vs. Wake Forest 
(684 points) clung to the 
15. (19) 322 
(16) Colorado 5-2 297 11/2 vs. Nebraskasecond position by just one (21) 6-1 11/2 vs. Tulane
East Carolina 257 point over the Washington (20) Syracuse 6-2 229 11/2 vs. Temple Huskies. 
(12) 
N.C. State 6-1 198 11/2 at South Carolina 

(18) 
Oklahoma 5-2 192 11/2 vs. Kansas State 


Michigan (52-6 winners 
(22) Baylor 6-2 140 1112 at Arkansas over Minnesota), Notre Dame (23) Georgia 6-2 128 11/9 vs. Florida 
(24-20 over Southern Cal), 23. (-) Arkansas 5-2 60.5 11/2 vs. Baylor 
24. (-) UCLA 5-2 40 11/2 vs. Washington St.
and idle Florida held on to 
25. (-) Fresno State 7-0 34 11/2 at Utah State 
fourth, fifth, and sixth 4 

season," Moore praised. "He's going to be a great playpr for

Taylor 
Notre Dame-an All-American, an All-Pro-and any school in

continued from page 1 the country would give its right
and he needs to develop that arm to have him." coo.fidence." When that time comes, Taylor
Still, Moore realizes that he will be ready. has a potential star on his "I'm looking forward to the hands. day when I'm playing 100 per­"Remember, he's a true cent to my potential," he said. sophomore, and for a sopho­And maybe those high school 
more, he's had an outstanding dreams will become reality. 
The Navy defensive line was dealt a blow in the off-season

Navy 
with loss of senior Pat Chrzanowski, who had been

continued from page 3 slated to see substantial playing 
A plebe-freshman wide re­time at defensive end. ceiver Tom Pritchard of Hilton Head, S.C.-leads the This season, the Naval Midshipmen in receptions with linehacking corps has holstered 20 grabs for 345 yards and one a defense that allows an aver­touchdown. age of 27.7 points per game, 
On the other side of the foot­five yards per rush, and 11.3 hall, junior strong safety Chad yards per completed pass. Chatlos leads the Naval Senior co-captain Byron Ogden, Academy in tackles with 63. a 6-0, 235 outside linebacker, Senior cornerback Rob Purifoy, leads the linebackers with 57 who played all of 1990 at half­tackles, while David Shaw (55), back, has also been a pleasant Mark Ellis (53), and Bob surprise for Navy, with 52 Kuberski (52) have also made George Chaump Jason Van Matre Chad Chatlos tackles. significant contributions. 

In his second season with the The sophomore quarterback's _The..junior strong safety from 1992 NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE Midshipmen, Chaump has com­quickness and_ninnirig abilities Youngwood, Pa:; leadS'Navy in piled a 5-13 record. Navy's 5-6 led Navy to switch him to tackles, with 43 unassisted and record last season was its best tailback for last week's game 20 assisted. Chatlos earned a since 1982, its last winning against Delaware. Before the letter at strong safety last sea­Sept. 5 -at Northwestern* Oct. 24 • BRIGHAM YOUNG season. Before taking over at switch to tailback, Van matre son, but was shifted to free Sept. 12 • MICHIGAN Oct. 31 -at Navy the Naval Academy, Chaump had been 37-77 with five in­safety in the last week of spring was the head coach at both terceptions and two touch­practice. Known for his excel­
Sept. 19-at Michigan State Nov. 7 • BOSTON COLLEGE 
Indiana University of Penn­downs. His longest pass of the lent coverage abilities, ChatlosSept. 26 • PURDUE Nov. 14 • PJ;:NN STATE sylvania (1982-85) and Mar­season was a 63-yard strike to has also recorded one sack (for
Oct. 3 • STANFORD Nov. 28 -at Southern Cal 
-shall University (1986-89). His Tom Pritchard against Bowling a five yard loss), two tackles for Oct. 1 0 -at Pittsburgh Nov. 20 • BOSTON COLLEGE cumulative record in 10 years Green. lossess (four yards) and re­*at Soldier Field of coaching is 62-45-2. covered two fumbles. 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week during football season, The Observer sports staff, Al Lesar of the South Bend Tribune and a guest prognosticator predict the outcomes of the week's major college football games. Records Anthony King Rene Ferran








Dave Dleteman AI Lesar Rich Kurz Paul Mahoney Dave McMahon 
are compiled as to how each Sports Ed~or South Bend Associate Sports Hesburgh Library Associate Sports Assistant Sports Associate Sports person does against the spread. 55-46-4 Tribune Editor Monitor Editor Ed~or Ed~or Home teams are in CAPS. 55-46-4 54-47-4 51-50-4 50-51-4 48-53-4 48-53-4 
Last guest: 3-12 
Gators Gators Gators Gators
Florida 10 over AUBURN Gators Gators Gators Sun Devils Sun Devils Huskies Huskies Huskies
WASH 29 over Ariz. St. Huskies Huskies Florida St. 34 over L'vllle Cardinals Seminoles Cardinals Cardinals Cardinals Cardinals Cardinals MICH 27 over Purdue Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Boilermakers Wolverines Boilermakers Wolverines 
Bulldogs Crimson Tide
ALABAMA 13 over Miss. St. Bulldogs Bulldogs Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide HawkeyesOHIO ST. 2 over Iowa Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Hawkeyes Razorbacks
.._ Baylor 7 over ARKANSAS Razorbacks Razorbacks Rat'Orbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks TENN. 20 over Memphis St. Tigers Volunteers Tigers Volunteers Volunteers Tigers Volunteers COLO. 2.5 over Nebraska Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Cornhuskers Buffaloes 



TEXAS 14 over Texas Tech Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns Red Raiders Longhorns Red Raiders Longhorns 
Pirates

E. CRLNA 25 over Tulane Pirates Pirates Pirates Pirates Pirates Pirates ILLINOIS 18 over Wisconsin Badgers lllini Badgers Badgers Badgers Badgers Badgers 
Bruins 

OKLA. 21 over Kansas St. Sooners Sooners Sooners Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Midshipmen 
11'?' 
UCLA 15 over Wash. St. Bruins Cougars Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins 
NOTRE DAME 41 over Navy Midshipmen Midshipmen Irish Midshipmen Midshipmen Irish 

Friday, November 1, 1991 
The Observer 


THE FAR SIDE CALV14 AND HOBBES 
For many weeks, the two species had lived in mutual tolerance of one another. And then, without provocation, the hornets began throwing rocks at Ned's house. 
6 ~7~~~~~~~~ 
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8712 
ACROSS 49 Prefix: height 11 Slovenly 50 Baseball positions 12 More shabby
1 "The Dark at the (abbr.) 13 Ancient EgyptianTop of the -" 51 Horse used in symbol7 Like blood fluid racing 15 Stylish13 -fever 52 You: Ger. 
17 Late comic Fields

14 Like a rosebush 53 Stage-door crowd 23 Blow one's ---­16 Rubberneck (2 wds.) (2 wds.) 24 Comforts 1B Sports-minded 58 Record players 29 Accost 
(abbr.) 59 Young girls 30 Actress Schneider,19 Water -60 Wandering et al.20 Dutch commune 61 Puts up 31 Sailor's assent21 Map abbreviation 
32 Play upon words22 See -eye DOWN 34 Card game
23 Trucks, for short 35 NFL coach Don, and
25 Tavern brew 1 Run swiftly family26 Writer Anais ----2 Native of North 36 Disprove
27 Records Carolina 37 lifting machine
28 European capital 3 Onassis, for short 3B Summarize 
32 Dessert item 4 Two of three little 39 Peeved (3 wds.)
33 Rogers and Clark words 40 Acts as judge
34 Dark red 5 Iterate 41 Exit 
35 Connive 6 Periodic payments 43 Meal 
38 Hockey seating area 7 Author of "Confes-47 Hungarian composer
42 "Poppycock!" s ions of Nat Turner" 4B Uneven 
43 Suffix for chlld B Inquisitive inter-54 Hockey legend
44 Opposite of pos. jections 55 Suffix: land area
45 Platoons 9 Deer 56 Cey of baseball 
46 School, in Paris 10 Pay dirt 57 L.A. campus 
SPB.UNCER JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON 
S<:li'IIE at: ll-IE 
B~'\l.\E.S ~~ Dt:J\D ~l--ID 1\.IE.'{ MIG\-\\ B~K. COMt. ON OOWN. 
LECTURES 
Friday 
2:15 p.m. Hesburgh Program In Public Service and Drexel Institute for Leadership, Xavier University of New Orleans Joint Colloquium. "The Urban Crisis and Com­munity Response in New Orleans and South Bend," Room C-103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Spon­sored by Hesburgh Programs in Public Service. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 

Baked Pollack Quiche Lorraine Pasta Bar Grilled Pastrami & Swiss Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 

Fillet Fish Parisienne Vegetable Chow Mein Beef Tacos Dell Bar 
-


CASINO NIGHT 
Unfier the Dome 

()ate: ~vl'ember 1, 1991 (durlne Enjoy the games of Varents• Weekend) rollllleUe, blackjack, craps, West Wine vf Svuth ()lnlne tlall and more!! Time: S VM -11 VM 

•
![CBCECE A ()MISS IUN f()~ SJU()ENTS AN() VA~ENTS 
STUDENT UNION BUARU 
-Sports 
page 28 Friday, November 1,1991 
Irish women travel to Orlando to face UCF Lady Knights 

By MIKE SCRUDATO The Central Florida defense is led by senior Kelley Barnes and
Sports Writer 

redshirt freshman goalkeeper Heather Brann. Barnes playsThe 13th-ranked Notre Dame tenacious defense and counter­women's soccer team heads to attacks effectively. Brann has
the Sunshine State this 
been solid in her first year of
weekend to take the 11th­
collegiate play, recording fiveranked Central Florida Lady 
shutouts and posting a 1.23
Knights tomorrow and the 
goals against average. 
Florida International Golden Sunday's game against
Panthers on Sunday. These two Florida International will not be games are crucial to the Irish's 
easy. The Golden Panthers
hope of gaining an NCAA have a 7-4-1 record and ex­
tournament bid. 

tended Central Florida to over­
Central Florida enters the 
time before falling, 3-2. Last game with a 9-4-1 record, and season they lost to Notre Damethey have been in the top 20 all 3-2 in overtime. 
season. There are many simi­"This game is going to depend 
larities between the teams. 
a lot on how we react after
Both like to attack and empha­
playing Central Florida,"
size their speed. 

Petrucelli commented, "We are"I think it will be an exciting, going challenged mentally andfast-paced game because of our physically."
similar styles of play," Irish 
The Golden Panthers' biggestcoach Chris Petrucelli said. 

scoring threat is sophomore
The Lady Knights and Irish Catherine Liller, who has scored
both depend heavily upon 
15 goals on the season. In goal freshmen. Notre Dame starts for Florida International is Sue­
three and sometimes four 
Moy Chin. She has onlyfreshmen. The Central Florida 
surrendered 14 goals on the
attack is led by freshman Kelly season. whieh has earned her aKochevar, a two-time high 1.11 GGA.
school All-American and mem­One thing the Irish will have
ber of the USYSA National to be wary of is a letdownteam. She has 16 goals and against the Golden Panthers.
fives assists on the year. 
The only other time they haveShutting her down could be the played back-to back games thiskey to an Irish victory. 
season was September 13 andFortunately for Notre Dame, 
-
14. In the first game Notre
Petrucelli expects defenders 
Daill{l scored an impressive 4-0
Andrea Kurek, who missed win over then 22nd-rankedWednesday's game versus 
Cincinnati. However, the fol­Wright State with a pulled neck lowing day the Irish lost leadsmuscle, and Jill Matesic, who of 2-0 and 3-2 in a 3-3 tie withsprained her right ankle in the Vanderbilt.
2-1 win, to play this weekend. 
Men's soccer to finish regular season against Wildcats 
By JASON KELLY of the team's success this sea­to put only four goals past "I would have liked to have bid to the NCAA tournament. son is due to the consistent play Bader and Wednesday's had more maturity," Berticelli Their 4-1-1 conference record
Sports Writer 
and steady improvement of the blanking of Western Michigan said of the win over Western left the Irish tied for second talented freshman class. raised his shutout total to eight. Michigan, "but with freshmen with Loyola, but due to the sea­The Notre Dame men's soccer 
As many as seven rookies It hasn't been an easy ad­you sometimes expect more son opening loss to the
team will round out the regular 
have been in the starting justment for the freshman, but than they're ready to give." Ramblers, they will have to set­season Sunday afternoon when lineup, including Jean Joseph, coach Mike Berticelli knows The rookies have lived up to tle for the number three seed in Kentucky visits Alumni Field. 
who leads the team in scoring that the rookies still need some their expectations this season, the tournament. The only other In their first varsity season, with 23 points despite missing time to mature. however, and they will have to blemish on Notre Dame's con­the Wildcats should not pose too the first five games with a leg In Wednesday night's win continue their tough play if the ference record is a 0-0 tiemuch of a threat to the 10-4-2 injury. over Western Michigan, the Irish hope to end the regular against MCC championIrish as they tune up for next Talented freshman goalie Bert Irish didn't play with as much season on a winning note Evansville.
week's Midwestern Collegiate 
-Bader has also made quite an maturity as they have shown against Kentucky. Detroit or Xavier, two teams
Conference tournament. 
impact in his first collegiate throughout the season, but they Next Thursday marks the be­the Irish handily defeated in the Sunday's game will also mark season. In Notre Dame's recent still battled through some tough ginning of the MCC tournament regular season, are likely op­the final the home game for se­seven game winning streak, weather conditions and pulled and the Irish are looking to win ponents in Thursday's opening 
nior captains Kenyon Meyer 
Irish opponents could manage out the 1-0 win. the title and earn the automatic round.
and Brett Hofmann, but much 
Swim teams to host MCC dual meet at Rolfs Center 
Special to the Observer Rand won the 200 breaststroke. Freshman Mike Keeley con­
The Notre Dame men's and 
tinues to impress, placing sec­women's swim teams host the ond in the 800 freestyle, while
Midwestern Collegiate 
Conferencemeet and relays see SMC swimming, 
today at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
page 24 
The two teams come into to­
the foursome of Smith,
day's meets in opposite direc­Birmingham. Greg Cornick and tions, with the men dropping a Mike Gibbons captured the 400 
148-91 decision to Indiana 
freestyle relay. 
University last Friday, while the Junior All-American Tanya women were busy knocking off Williams heads the Notre Dame 
the Hoosiers. 

women's squad. She had two The Irish men will be led by individual victories against the 
senior co-captains Jim 
Hoosiers in the 200 individualBirmingham and Chuck Smith, 
medley and the 200 back­who finished one-two in the 
stroke-she is among the na­100-meter freestyle race 
tion's top 25 in the latter event.
• against Indiana. The junior duo 
Senior Becky Wood, who 

of John Godfrey and Tom missed all of last season afterWhowell also swept the top two qualifying for the NCAA meet in 
Members of the Irish men's swim team get off to a flying start in a recent race at Rolfs Aquatic Center. The places in the 200 backstroke in 1990, placed first in the 200 
Irish will host the MCC meet atnd relays this afternoon. Friday's meet, and senior Roger breaststroke. 








