
VOL. XXIII NO. 137 MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1991 i .THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ~AINT MARY'S • • . 

The Obs81Ver/Eiizabelh Peterson 
An Tostal mud pits 
Scattered showers added to these students' fun Saturday as they reveled in the An Tostal mud pits. 
Midwest tornadoes leave 23 people dead 
ANDOVER, Kan. (AP) -Res­cuers completed a search Sun­day for bodies in a flattened mobile-home park where a tor­nado killed 14 people. Survivors kept scouring the debris for their belongings. 
At least 48 twisters that swept Kansas and Oklahoma on Friday night killed 23 people in all, authorities said Sunday. The toll fell from the 29 re­ported Saturday as officials identified bodies and discovered some fatalities had been counted more than once. 
Andover Mayor Jack Finlason said 14 people rather than 20 died in the mobile-home park in this Wichita suburb. 
After searchers picked through the rubble Sunday, he said: "We are confident we have uncovered all of the rub­ble. We are confident there are no other victims out there." 
Up to 1, 500 Andover resi­dents were left homeless by the tornado, the first to strike the town since 1958. 
The tornadoes also killed three people in Oklahoma and six in Wichita and three outly­ing Kansas counties. More than 200 people were injured and hundreds of homes were de­stroyed. 
"It's a solid, middle-class, blue-collar bunch of people," said Richard Peckham, one of the owners of the 400-resident, 40-acre Golden Spur Mobile Home Park. 
The last body found was a man discovered by his wife as she searched for belongings. 
"She picked up a piece of something-I don't know what it was -and I just heard her scream," said Beth Hammond, who was standing nearby. "She broke down, got down on the ground right there beside him. No one knew what to do. It was a complete shock." 
Part of the mobile home park was sealed off for a few hours Sunday while dog teams searched for any additional bodies. 

Finlason said the town of 4,300 would start trying to get back to normal Monday. He said businesses would be open and people would be returning to work. 

Malloy issues open letter on commitment to diversity 
By MONICA YANT munity analyzing the Univer­focusing on efforts sustained ship aid as other examples of a $1 million grant from the News Editor sity's present situation with re­since he assumed the Presi­ways in which the University Coca-Cola Foundation. spect to issues of cultural di­dency four years ago. "I sug­has responded to the call for The letter also pointed out 
University President Father versity," including an examina­gested then and reaffirm now cultural diversity. that affirmative action goals Edward Malloy today issued an tion of where future action is that we must find a unique, The University has taken sev­were set in 1988 and 1990 for "Open Letter on Cultural Diver­necessary. Notre Dame way to realize this eral steps to increase minority positions at various levels of the sity" in which he addressed In the letter, Malloy thanked goal (to increase cultural diver­enrollment, according to Mal­University work force. No-tre Dame's past, present, the students who "in recent sity)," it said. loy's letter. The 1988 goal of More recent developments in and future commitment to cul­months have held the Malloy offered the 1988-89 reaching 15 percent minority the program have been facultytural diversity. University accountable for what "Year of Cultural Diversity" as representation by 1992 has exchange agreements with tra­
The 19-page document comes they perceive to be a lack of evidence of one of the first ef­been met in two of the last ditionally Black colleges and almost two weeks after a progress with regard to forts of his presidency to "raise three freshmen classes, he said. universities, such as Xavier demonstration by Students cultural diversity." the level of consciousness of all In addition "an administrative University In New Orleans. United for Respect (SUFR) that Although he admitted that members of the Notre Dame position in the Graduate School Future action by the Univer­called for open negotiation with dialogue has "sometimes been community to the importance has been created to sity to address cultural diver­Malloy on issues of cultural di­publicly contentious," he said of minorities in American life concentrate on the recruitment sity within the faculty includes versity. that private discussion with and culture." of minority students." "motivating our best and 
On April 18, one day after students has shown him that He also cited increased en­Malloy's letter also addressed brightest minority students to SUFR's sit-in in the Registrar's "everyone has had a common dowment for minority scholar­the need for more minority fac­go on to graduate school and ofnce, Malloy Issued a state­set of goals for the University." ships in 1988 and a major ulty. He referred to a Novem­earn Ph.D.'s so that we can ment proposing a "substantive The letter documents the his­funding effort by the Board of ber, 1989 minority-faculty de­letter to the University com-tory of cultural diversity at ND, Trustees in 1990 for scholar-velopment program funded by 
GCAG, Malloy request prayer for war victims 
Obeerver Staff Report Fieldhouse Mall that focuses 
on the costs of the war, 
The Gulf Crisis Action human and domestic; Group (GCAG) has declared •5:15 p.m. Requiem Mass at today a campus-wide Day of Sacred Heart Church; Mourning for the victims of •8 p.m. lecture and the Persian Gulf conflict. discussion on the 
University President Father ~consequences of the Gulf Edward Malloy has also pro­War" with the Reverand claimed today as a Day of Re­Patrick Gaffney and professor membrance for those who Alan Dowty at the Center for died In the Gulf War. Social Concerns. 
"In a symbolic display of ~There are various activities respect, solldarity, of both prayer and discussion compassion and grief for the scheduled for this day which dead and their families, we will help all of us to put this ask that everyone wear black event into fuller perspective," on this day," states a GCAG states Malloy in a Friday release. letter. "J encourage all of you 
The group has planned the to join me in praying for those following events: who were kUJed or wounded 
•4:30 p.m. gathering at during the war." 

see MALL. 



Program to help minority students 
By JOSEPH ADAMS the students apply to the Col­This Increase allowed the pro­News Writer lege of Arts and Letters, the gram to increase the number of College of Science, or the Col­positions from twenty to thirty. 
Notre Dame will offer a lege of Engineering. Ten posi­The ten additional positions are summer program to provide tions are available in each col­In the College of Engineering. professional and research lege. training for minorities inter­Although the PMEGS pro­According to Borelli, seven of ested in graduate school. gram Is entering its third year, the twenty participants from 
The Promote Minority En­Notre Dame participated for last year were from Notre rollment in Graduate Studies the first time last summer. Dame. The applicants are se­(PMEGS) program, sponsored Borelli said, "We just heard lected on the basis of their by the United States Depart­about it at the end of the first transcript and letters of rec­ment of Education, is open to year." ommendation. Applicants must rising minority juniors and se­also qualify for federal financial niors. Students accepted into the aid. 
Although the program will program will receive a stipend, Borelli said that the students take place at Notre Dame, un­travel allowance, six credit must be interested In "non-pro­dergraduates from across the hours, and room and board for fessional graduate school." He country are eligible to compete the duration of the summer said, "We try to encourage for one of the thirty positions. program. them to follow a career in 
He added that the program graduate studies." The Notre 
According to Borelli, associ­was so successful that its fund­Dame program begins in June. ate professor of mathematics ing has been increased from Notre Dame joins 60 other and director of special instruc­approximately $55,000 last institutions across the country tional projects and activities, summer to $91,980 this year. offering PMEGS opportunities. 

Monday, April 29, 1991
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The many experiences of freshman year 
College is an experience 
we work up in our minds Jennifer Habrych for years, yet I do not Asst. Saint Mary's believe I could have ever Editor anticipated the events of the past year. Sitting in the------­
room of my dorm, some friends and I reflected back on the unique surprises and experiences could life has brought-events that are truly freshman. 
•Believing 
that your graffiti dance T-shirt was the key to a terrific social life. 

•Camping 
out for football tickets, we were told by upperclassmen, is the thing to do. We were ensured that not only would it be a great time, you would also get much better seats. Instead, we were stranded in a down pour of rain, and our seats were in the nosebleed section of the end-zone. 

•Attending 
our ftrst football tailgater where a member of our group discovered "this isn't lemonade!" 

•Realizing 
the life and death importance of "double ringers", care packages, and mail. 

•Learning 
that fun at a party means standing in a small room where you cannot move and are surrounded by sweating bodies. 

•Discovering 
that at ND, parties don't gradually wind-down, but come to a screeching halt at 2 AM. 

•Dogbook 
dates to SYRs and formals can be a learning experience. 

•Realizing 
that if your blind date to a dance was nice, looked somewhat like his picture, did not embarrass you with "unique" dance moves, and actually talked to you, you have had a great blind dating experience. 

•Ordering 
late night pizzas because could no longer tolerate another dining hall dish made from the same "universal" sauce . 

•Realizing 
what a rare occurrence it is to see males SMC. 

•Finding 
that it is essential to plan your schedule around the shuttle schedule. 

•Learning 
that procrastination is actually an art form. 

•Discovering 
that study breaks usually last longer than the time you actually spend studying. 

•Spending 
time creating a unique answering machine message is another part of college life. 

•Realizing 
that sometimes there is so little happening in the ND/SMC community, that people will actually debate the issue of whether to have a revolving Mary on top of the Dome or not. 

•Discovering 
that the social life stagnates after football season, and doesn't really pick back up 'til An Tostal. 


FORECAST: 
Breezy and warm with thunderstorms and evening showers. Mostly cloudy Tuesday with 30 percent chance of show­ers. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  68  48  
Atlanta  83  65  
Be~ln  59  39  
Boston  62  43  
Chicago  74  59  
Dallas·Ft.Worth  78  55  
Denver  56  32  
Detro~  72  60  
Honolulu  85  71  
Houston  87  73  
Indianapolis  77  61  
London  55  39  
Los Angeles  85  56  
Madrid  64  41  
Mlani Beach  88  78  
Moscow  43  41  
New Orleans  86  75  
New York  60  53  
Paris  61  39  
Philadelphia  65  55  
Rome  59  46  
St. Louis  75  64  
San Francisco  69  48  
Seattle  61  43  
South Bend  70  51  
Tokyo  70  55  
Washington. D.C  73  60  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Chancellor faces unrest 
•BERLIN, Germany-German Chancellor Helmut Khol on Sunday faced growing signs of unrest among other leaders of his embattled Christian Democratic Union. Khol has come under fire for breaking a campaign promise by raising taxes to finance unification. If foreign investors see his center-right 


coalition wavering, Kohl could have difficulty attracting foreign capital to the troubled eastern part of the country. A German newspaper reported that Kohl had called a "crisis meeting" for June to plot strategy, but the party rejected the paper's characterization of the gathering. Instead, the party confirmed that a "closed door" session will take place early in June. 
Mobs kill 10 outside Johannesburg 
•JOHANNESBURG, South Africa-Armed mobs rampaged through the Soweto black township following the funeral of a local official Sunday, killing ten people and causing widespread damage, police said. The 
OF INTEREST 
deaths brought the total to at least 28 deaths during the weekend of violence, including 14 killed in the Johannesburg township of Alexandra, police said. Many in the armed crowd wore red head-bands associated with the Zulu-dominated Inkatha tribe. Law and Order Minister Adriaan Vlok later announced a ban on all traditional weapons. 
INDIANA 
Recycling yards under investigation 
•EVANSVILLE, Ind.-Vanderburgh County sheriff's deputies will launch an undercover operation in the coming months to try to prevent people from being cheated by recycling yards that underweigh aluminum cans. The undercover officers also will buy propane gas to try to stop dealers who illegally charge flat rates to refill the gas tanks, said Loretta Townsend, chief inspector of the weights and measures department. For years, most local dealers charged a flat rate to refill propane tanks, regardless of how much propane was left, Townsend said. Retailers who are found to be cheating consumers face a maximum punishment of 180 days in jail and a $1,000 fine. 
•Finding that people look forward to finals week, simply because they don't have to attend classes. 
Freshman year has been a truly unique adventure filled with vast and new experiences, heartbreaks, and encounters both good and bad. And, even though I would never want to be a "naive" freshman again, I would not trade the experiences of the past year for the world. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of 
the Obseroer.  
Today's  Steff:  
News  Production  Business  
David Kinney  Michelle Wood  CoIIeen Gannon  
Mary Murphy  Ann Buff  Colette LaForce  
Denlsse Morlon  
Accent  VIewpoint  -Lendels  
Michael Whitman  Rich Riley  
Jehnelle Harrigan  Circulation  
Lourie Sasso  Graphics  BIll O'Rourke  
Pet Midden  Matt Novak  
Sports  
Rene Ferran  Photography  Ad  Design  
Kevin Weise  Tony Pegenellt  
Scoreboard  Elizabeth Peterson  Jennifer  
Rich Kurz  McCorler  
Lab Tech  Greg WIICh  
Gerr Schwartz  AIIssa Murphy  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

•seniors: A Channel Volunteer Program representative will be at the Center for Social Concerns on Monday and Tuesday, 1-5 p.m. to answer questions 
about volunteering next fall in the Pacific Northwest. Undergraduates interested in these programs in the future are also welcome. 
•The 
mandatory orientation for all summer hall staff members is scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, May 1, at Theodore's in the LaFortune Student Center. 

•Yearbooks 
are available this week at LaFortune information desk from Monday through Thursday during the hours of 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. 


•The last day of business for Irish Gardens is 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April26 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX ~ 
207.27 v 0.23
153.86 Million 


S&P COMPOSITE 379.02 " 0.231 OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,912.384 • 8.66 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD ..f $ 2.20to $353.90/oz. SILVER(!. 0.08¢ to $3.912oz. 

tomorrow (Tuesday), so come in for last minute flowers, balloons, and graduation cards. 
•summer 
Service Project opportunities are available in three cities for students with some knowledge of Spanish. SSP's are eight weeks of volunteer service sponsored by Notre Dame alumni clubs during the summer. The students will receive a $1400 tuition scholarship. If you are interested, come in to the Center for Social Concerns, or call Sue Cunningham at 239-5923 as soon as possible. 

•clubs 
and Organizations who have not signed up for Activities Night in the fall should pick up applications in Student Activities, 315 LaFortune Student Center, as soon as possible. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1913: Swedish-born engineer Gideon Sundback o Hoboken, N.J., patented the zipper. 

• 
In 1945: American soldiers liberated the Nazi concentration camp in Dachau, Germany. 

• 
In 1974: President Nixon announced he was releasing edited transcripts of some of the secretly-made White House tape recordings related to the Watergate scandal. 

• 
In 1983: Harold Washington was sworn in as the first black mayor of Chicago. 

• 
Five years ago: The Soviet Union appealed to the West for help in fighting a reactor fire at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant that had sent a radioactive cloud across northeastern Europe. 


Monday, April29,1991 The Observer page3 
Trustee contributes $1 million toward University peace institute 

Special to the Observer 
A Notre Dame trustee has contributed more than $1 million to endow the directorship of the University's Institute for International Peace Studies. 
The endowment is the gift of John Regan, Jr., retired chairman of the board of the Insurance brokerage Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and an NO trustee since 1975. 
"Through peace studies, we must endeavor to create a world In which just institutions minimize conflict and in which governments Instinctively seek peaceful solutions to disputes," said University President Father Edward Malloy. "Notre Dame already is a leader in this young discipline, and Jack Regan's generous gift will help to further its development." 
Regan joined Marsh & McLennan in 1946 and was named president In 1972, chief executive officer in 1973 and chairman In 1976. 
A Minneapolis native, he graduated from Yale University in 1943 and later studied In the advanced management program at Harvard Business School. He is a trustee­emeritus of New York Law School and the Inner-City Scholarship Fund, Inc. 
John Attanasio will become the first Regan director of peace studies on July 1, Attanasio recently was appointed to succeed the retiring John Gilligan, the institute's founding director. The peace Institute was established in 1985 and is housed in Notre Dame's new Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 

Jacques Maritain Center 
Student Union Board 
CLUB COLUMN APRIL 29, 1991 AHantlon all clubs: Registration packets are past due. Penalties are currently being assessed against late clubs. All packets that have not been fully completed and turned into the Club Room must be immediately. Any club that does not return a completed packet by April 30, will loose recognition as an official university club. Students for Environmental Action will meet Sunday, May 5, at 7 pm in the Center for Social Concerns. Contact Amy Jenista, 283-1343, for more information. This is the final Club Column for this year. The Club Coordination Council would like to thank all of the clubs that have used this service throughout the year for helping make it a success. We also want to encourage all clubs to take advantage of it next year.  
and the Present: ILLIBERAL EDUCATION ThePolitics of Race and Sex on Campus ~~ llnl-­DINESH D'SOUZA '""1111.s Is a bold and nmtrovcrslal work hv one or lhf' tnre h·arh.-ssly \C'onoda~ll\: writers arO\.IIH.\. a·s opposn\ \o \he fakt· n k a fnshlonnblr iconoclnsts who nllo1111.l." -Tom Wolfe. nulhor ofThr /Joll/i:. o(llw l'rriiiii<'S  

orrection 
In Friday's Observer, Catherine Watson was incorrectly identified as lecturing on the ordination of women and as summarizing the collective opinions of other panelists in a Thursday panel discussion. The Observer regrets the errors. 

2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 
Guatcma $ 496 London · $ 509 caracas $ 514 Tokyo $ 699 Sydney $1115 
Roundtrip from Chica90. Restric­tions apply. Taxes not Included. 

Cauncl Tra1l2l 
1153 N. Dearborn St. Chicago, ll 60610 
311-t51·1SU _, 

by Dinesh D'Souza 

In this firsthand rcpm·t from today's deeply troubled Anwric.an eampus. Dinesh D'Souza argues that tmivf'rsity policies designed to foster enlightened harmony are in fact promoting Ignorance. mtoleranee and racism. In their attempt to thrust the university Into the vanguard of SO<"ial rrform. minority activists have helped to crrate not a truly diverse multicultural community. but balkanizecl. race-conscious tribal enclaves with no common moral ground or shared commitment to the goals of liberal learning. Illiberal EAiucation must be read by anyone concerned WJth thr future of american higher education. 
"The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus" 
Tu<'sday, April 30 7:30pnl. Washington Hall 

.----­
t 
-------~-------­
: The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. . . . : 
•: an essential ingredient in your •: : career planning strategy :
•
•• • Get a great summer job or work during breaks in corporate •+
•+ Chicago. •• 
• • Bridge the gap between school and first time career placement. • • • Experience the wide variety of corporate environments in •






: ~~-: 
: • Receive skill development for automated corporate environments. : : • Receive career counseling. : : • Participate in competitive employee benefit and bonus program. : 
! cllhce ! 
: FOR TEIIII.::OIIAIIIEI ••
• The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. • Chicago •312-372-4500 • 
•
•.................•..................................................................•
~ 

The Observer
page4 

LA brutality case may be dropped 
LOS ANGELES (AP) ­Charges against four policemen accused of beating a black mo­torist should be dismissed in part because four electric stun­gun darts frred at Rodney King are missing, a defense attorney said. 
"We have put the prosecution on notice that we are going to move to dismiss the case based on the failure to preserve or the destruction of evidence," said John Barnett, who represents Officer Theodore Briseno. 
Records at Pacifica Hospital in Sun Valley, where the motorist was taken for treatment, indicate the darts were thrown out the night of the beating, district attorney's spokesman Mike Botula said Sunday. 

Briseno, Sgt. Stacey Koon, and Officers Timothy Wind and Laurence Powell pleaded inno­cent to felony assault charges in the March 3 beating of King during a traffic stop in Lake View Terrace. A resident of the area videotaped the beating. 
The Taser stun-gun darts are significant because their ap­parent failure to affect King may have led officers to believe he was under the influence of the hallucinogenic drug PCP, Barnett said. Tests found no trace of the drug in his blood. 
"If they reasonably believed he was under the influence of PCP, then the level of force and the amount of force that is permitted is far different," Barnett said. 
But two nurses said the darts may have failed to reach King's skin. 
And Botula dismissed the darts' importance. 
"We do not consider it a make-or-break bit of evidence. We certainly don't believe in the dismissal of charges," Botula said. "What we're looking at is the overall conduct of the offi­cers." 
The videotape of the beating indicates King was hit more than 50 times with police ba­tons. 
Monday, April 29, 1991 
A.P. Photo
Cocaine bust 
A U.S. Customs officer unloads kilos of cocaine after cutting into the fiberglass deck of an 18-foot pleasure boat, removing more than 1,000 pounds of smuggled cocaine in Miami Thursday. The cocaine has an estimated street value of $20 million dollars. 


Malloy 
continued from page 1 
continue to enlarge the pool of minority candidates for future faculty positions." 
Malloy also addressed the is­sue of cultural tension by citing both positive improvements and problems that continue to exist. While he lauded the April, 1991 passage of a Discriminatory Harassment Policy, he said that conflicts between minority students and other students is perpetuated by "the notion that ethnic minority students are here, as it were, under false pretenses." 
He also said that other causes of cultural tension lie in the lack of opportunities for "formation of deep and lasting friendships across ethnic lines" and in the differences of 
HAPPY 21st KATE 
~~ 

~ ,~ 

Charles­Matthew­David­Mom­Abigail Dad 
"recognition and acceptance" for student-athletes from ethnic minority backgrounds and other ethnic students. 
In his letter, Malloy offered a newly-formed Task Force on Cultural Diversity as the framework by which the Uni­versity will address these, and other, issues. The committee will be made up of no more than 18 members from faculty, staff, administration, under­graduate, and graduate student bodies. 
The task force will examine the present status of promoting cultural diversity and making recommendations for future action. 
The task force will begin work in September 1991, the letter said, and will submit a written interim report in Jan­uary of 1992, and a final report by the end of that academic year. 
Brother Moran made honorary alumnus 
Special to The Observer 

Brother Conan Moran, former manager of the Hammes Bookstore, has been made an honorary alumnus by the University's Alumni Association. 
Moran, who retired two years ago, received word of his new status in a surprise announce­ment during a banquet on April 27, which closed the associa­tion's annual senate and board meetings. 
Moran, known to generations of Notre Dame students as "Brother Bookstore," was born in Cavan, Ireland and attended primary and secondary schools 
Save a tree. 
TRHNSFERS! EUERYONE INTERESTED IN HELPING WITH TRRNSFER OR IENTRTI ON



TRHNSFERS! 
MRNORTORY MEETINGTRHNSFERS! TOMORROW NIGHT IN THE BRSEMENT OF BREEN PHILLIPSTRHNSFERS! 6:00PM 
TRHNSFERS! IF YOU RRE UNRBLE TO RTTENO OR HRUE QUESTIONS, CRLL MRTT RTTRHNSFERS! 272-0552 OR JULIE RT H1291. 

TRHNSFERS! 
in Cloonsarn and Leitrim. 
He emigrated to the United States in 1928 and lived in St. Louis before entering Sacred Heart College in Watertown, Wis. as a Holy Cross postulant in February 1937. He took his final vows as a Holy Cross brother in 1941. 
In 1939, while still under temporary vows, Moran was assigned to work at the book­store, which shared space in Badin Hall with a barber shop and dry-cleaning service until the present facility opened in 1955. He is a former trustee of the National Association of College Stores and a former 
Please recycle this paper. 
member of the University's Li­censing Committee. 
Also on Saturday, the Alumni Association presented its James Armstrong Award to Roger Valdiserri, associate director of athletics, and its William Reynolds Award to Sr. Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for student affairs. 
Valdiserri, a 1954 Notre Dame graduate, was honored for exemplary service to the University. Sr. Lenz, who re­ceived her master's degree in theology from Notre Dame in 1967, was honored for exem­plary service to young people. 
Monday, April29, 1991 
In remembrance of Chernobyl 
A Soviet woman lays a flower on a newly opened cemetery Friday created especially for firefighters killed during the Chernobyl nu­clear disaster. Today marks the fifth anniversary of the Chernobyl nuclear accident. Also pictured are uniformed Soviet firefighters. 

U.P.S. Trouble-free connections


SERVICE 
so you


DAILY 
won't have a 




Country J/arvester 
'Mon4ay tliru 1"ri44y 12 to 5 SatiiTiilly 11 to 2 'D(Jmid %Nrs 'DurintJ 1"rnals • Lower Llvel of IA1"ortutu 50" off each box with this ad 
239-6714 $100.00 free Insurance! 


The Observer 
pageS 


Stanford professor provokes debate by flaunting drug use 
STANFORD, Calif. (AP) ­Stanford University lecturer Stuart Reges has flaunted his drug use since last fall when he told the campus newspaper his favorite was an amphetamine derivative nicknamed "the love drug." 
No one seemed to care until Reges wrote U.S. drug czar Bob Martinez saying he carries ille­gal drugs in his backpack "to make fools" of those heading the war on drugs. He also con­fessed to advising a student It was safe to try MDA known as "the love drug," because it pro­duces euphoria. 
"I wanted to make Martinez mad; I guess I wanted him to go after me," said Reges. And he got his wish when Martinez wrote school administrators this month, pressuring them to get rid of Reges or lose federal funds. 
An investigation is under way into the popular senior lecturer in computer science, a boyish 32-year-old non-tenured faculty member. The dean of engineer­lng will make a recommenda­tion to Stanford's provost. 
Reges, who says he has never taught while on drugs, has he­come the focus of a debate about free speech and personal freedom vs. government efforts to stop drug use on campuses. 
"It's certainly foolish behavior on the part of Stuart Reges to personally provoke this, but it's also a legitimate issue ­whether the war on drugs has gone too far," said Phillip Johnson, a criminal law profes­sor at the University of Califor­nia at Berkeley. 
The campus anti-drug rules began last fall after the gov­ernment threatened to pull funds from schools that don't have anti-drug policies. Stan­ford got more than $120 million in federal funds last year, nearly 30 percent of its operat­ing budget. 
Under the regulations, teach­ers can be fired and students expelled or disciplined if they make, distribute, possess or use illegal drugs on campus. 
"That's just simply black­mail," Reges said. "The gov­ernment bas no business using universities to conduct their ridiculous war on drugs. This is supposed to be a place of free thinking, free speech and per­sonal freedom." 
But Martinez, the former Florida governor named by President Bush as head of the National Drug Control Policy Office, told Stanford President Donald Kennedy In an April 12 letter that "pro-drug" teachers like Reges cannot be tolerated. 
When Kennedy saw the letter a week later, he ordered Reges placed on paid administrative leave after 12 years at Stanford -11 as a lecturer and one as a graduate student. 
"Privileged intellectuals who argue In support of what is in fact an industry based upon exploitation are, I think, morally disoriented," Kennedy wrote to the Stanford Daily after the paper editorialized against him. 

Appear 
In• our 

RESUME BOOKS 
Deadline Friday, May 10 
cement Services 



Astronauts to study 'Star Wars' 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP)­The space shuttle Discovery thundered into orbit with seven astronauts Sunday, but its ccmplicated "Star Wars" research mission quickly encountered trouble. 
The crew unsuccessfully tried to activate two tape recorders for collecting data from one of the Pentagon's primary payloads, a collection of five scientific instruments. Mission Control responded to the efforts with these disappointing words: "No joy." 
"Both of them have 
experienced some sort of anomaly, and we're looking at that closely right now," NASA flight director Ron Dittemore said 10 1/2 hours into the flight. "It's premature to see where we're headed." 
The five scientific instruments and the recorders are mounted in the cargo bay. The instruments are supposed to study natural phenomena, such as the atmosphere and aurora, that could mask a ballistic missile's path. 
Dittemore said experiments by three of the five Instruments would be In jeopardy If the recorders don't work. He said work by the other two devices, including the most important one, would not be affected. 
No problems were reported with Discovery's other main cargo, a spacecraft that will be released In orbit to measure and analyze the shuttle's exhaust plumes. 
The spaceship roared from Its seaside launch pad at 7:33 a.m. EDT, climbing through a fairly clear sky flushed by the rising sun. 

l.Jpcoming Events 

Lectures 
MONDAY. APRIL29 
DR. EDV KAUFMAN 
Executive Director 
Harry S. Truman Research Institute 
for the Advancement of Peace, 
Hebrew University of Jerusalem 
~ERE~ANCEOFHUMAN 
RIGHTS FOR PEACE AND DEMOCRACY" 
12:30 p.m.· Seminar Room C103 of the new Hesburgh Center 
WEDNESDAY. MAY 1 
REV. WILLIAM M. LEWERS, C.S.C. Director, Center for Civil and Human Rights, Notre Dame Law School 
"QUESTIONING THE JUST WAR DOCTRINE" 
4:00 p.m. • Auditorium of the new Hesburgh Center 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL






IIIII~;!~o;~~!:: 
,­
t 
pageS The Observer Monday, April29, 1991 
ND series continues on PBS 

Threatens to jump 
John Ricardi sits on a window ledge at the federal building Thurs­day threatening to jump. Ricardi was arrested four months ago after a story appeared on "America's Most Wanted." Ricardi was ar­rested on charges of murdering his girlfriend and another woman. 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's television series on intellectual and social issues, "Life Choices: Challenges for Our Times" begins its fourth season on PBS stations in May and on nationwide cable systems in June. 
Four programs on the inter­play between science and reli­gion lead off the new season and feature three Notre Dame professors: the Rev. Michael Buckley, a theologian; physicist James Cushing, and the Rev. Eman McMullin, a philosopher of science. It will also feature Adolf Grunbaum, chairman of the Center for the Philosophy of Science at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Other persons appearing on the programs include Cornelius Delaney, Notre Dame professor of philosophy; Phillip Sloan, chairman of the Notre Dame Program of Liberal Studies; and two English scholars, mathematician Roger Penrose of Oxford University and the Rev. John Polklnghome, presi­dent of Queen's College, Cam­bridge University. 
Four programs called "Religions of the Book" treating the views of Jews, Muslims and Christians on such issues as war and peace and holy places and pilgrimage will follow the series on "Science and Reli­gion." 
Notre Dame began its PBS. and cable telecasting in the fall of 1989 and is believed to be the only university producing programming on a regular ba­sis for both PBS and cable net­work distribution. The pro­grams are produced for the University by Golden Dome Productions, a unit of WNDU­TV, a commercial station in South Bend, Ind., owned by Notre Dame. 
The programs will be aired locally over WNIT-TV, channel 34, at 8 p.m. (EST) on Satur­days and at 11:30 a.m. (EST) Sundays, beginning May 11. "Life Choices" is also carried by about 50 other PBS stations across the country. 
Vision Interfaith Satellite Network (VISN), a national ca­ble network for religious pro­gramming, will carry each pro­gram six times weekly begin­ning June 3. "Life Choices" also appears on the Catholic Televi­sion Network of America. 
Institute to host talks on Latin America 
Special to The Observer 
A conference titled "Business Elites and Democracy in Latin America" will begin May 4 at 9 
a.m. in the Notre Dame Res­burgh Center for International Studies. 
The conference, sponsored by the University's Hellen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, will bring together economists, political scientists, and other scholars to discuss the role played by Latin Amer­ica's least-studied social groups in the volatile politics of that region. 
According to conference or­ganizers, business elites helped undermine many of Latin America's democratic regimes during the 1960s and 1970s. 
The elite were among the only groups benefiting from the military regimes that replaced the democracies. They have occasionally been active participants in the restoration of Latin American democracies, conference organizers said. 
In addition to presentations by several scholars in residence at the Kellogg Institute, the conference will include papers by Mexican, Brazilian, Argen­tine, and Peruvian scholars. Conference organizers intend to collect and edit these papers for future publication. 
The conference is open to the public. Further information may be obtained from Erika Valenzuela, academic coordina­tor of the Kellogg Institute, at 239-6580 . 
PHONE (219) 2334957 

Thanks and best wishes to the Class of 1991 
From all of us across the field at 
ROCCO'S STYlf SHOP 
Parisi's Ristorante Italiano 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OP ••JALK.IN 
1412 South Bend Ave. Reservations Accepted 232-4244 


• ROFFcER
••ll--1E FAMilY 

SORBIE 
::> PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS
SUGGESTS 11-W 
MEMORiAL 
. 

CCNTRIBLITlONS 

I 
BEtvW:l 

,


l0ll--1E 
~~ 

MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS.-PERMANENTS· COLOR





'~'ElY·· 
ANNOUNCING: 

ND German Summer Language Institute 
June 18 • August 2, 1991 
The NOTRE DAME GERMAN SUMMER LANGUAGE INSTITUTE offers an intensive summer program of courses and cultural enrichment. Earn up to 9 language credits at $ 122 per credit hour (I) in small, lively classes taught with imagination. Both professors (Williams & Wimmer) are experienced in offering concentrated, yet per­sonalized instruction. 
LEARN llm. LANGUAGE OF THE 90ies 
German Feature Films/Soaps/Videos Daily Tutorial Tuition Savings Personal Attention/Meals w/Profs Imaginative Instruction Lively Classroom Atmosphere Two experienced Professors 
Classes Offered (three credits each>: 

GE 101 Beginning German 1: June 18 • July 1 Intensive inttoductioo to German f~ students with no (X" minimal background 

GE  102  Beginning German U:  July 2 • July 16  
Continuation of GE 101  
GE 103  Beginning German ID:  July 17 • August 1  
Continuation of GE 102  
Fulfills ND language requirement•••  
GE  125  Intermediate Germaa I:  June 18 • July 9  
A course for students with some background in German. Grammar review,  
reading, comprehension, writing and speaking.  
GE  126  Intermediate German D:  July 10 • August 1  
Continuation  of GE  125  


·~ 
American ExpressAnnounces A Great New Travel Program 
Monday, April 29, 1991 The Observer 
Iraqi troops remain 
Armed Iraqi police stand in one of the entrances to the Zhako market Thursday. Allied commanders have said Kurdish refugees in camps fear to return to the Iraqi border town due to the presence of he police. 
page7 

ND Folk Choir releases 'A Companion to Prayer' 
Special to the Observer 
A cassette recording of the Notre Dame Folk Choir and the Monastic Schola of Gethsemani Abbey, titled "A Companion to Prayer," has been published by Ave Maria Press. 
According to Steven Warner, director of the Folk Choir, the recording was made over the last three years as members of the Folk Choir made a series of retreats at Gethsemani Abbey in Trappist, Kentucky. 
During these visits, the Folk Choir joined the common prayer of the monks, taking part in the the Abbey's Masses and celebrations of the Liturgy of the Hours. Many of the pieces regularly used at the Abbey were later adapted for use at Notre Dame by the Folk Choir. 
The recording includes hymns, spirituals, contempo­rary songs, chants and psalm settings. Much of the music in the collection results from Warner's collaboration with the Rev. Chrysogonus Waddell, director of music for Gethsemani Abbey, and Ellen Doerrfeld, graduate assistant for the Notre Dame Ensemble . 
The 78-minute recording also incorporates several excerpts from the poetry and essays of Thomas Merton, who was a monk at Gethsamini Abbey. 
Now students can get the Card and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending a lm of money. And that's by getting the American Express~ Card. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on 48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is 7days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night. 
In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all' the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student privileges. They include aquarterly magazine filled with informa­tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable discounts from leading retailers. 
But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank 
Continental Airlines. 
address and account number on hand). What's more, 
Just look at the map and picl\ the place youtllike with our special student offer, it's easier to get the to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you Card now while you're still in school than it may can use acertificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, ever be again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 



CALL 1-800-942-AMEX e 
CONTINENTAL
Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon. 
Conlpkt< ltrms and condiriona of rhis rravtl oftr wlll arrivr wirh your c<rri6carts. Conrinenral Airllnts alont is rtsponsiblt for fulfillmenr of rhis oftr. Am<rican E1press assumes no Jlabillry for Conllntnral Airlines' performance. Cl 1991 Amtr~an ExprtsS Travel Relartd Services Compon~ hw. 


pageS The Observer Monday, April 29, 1991 

Allies enlarge security zone 
ZAKHO, Iraq (AP) -In a change of plans, allied forces have more than doubled the size of their security zone for Kurdish refugees in northern Iraq and are scouting a site for a second settlement, U.S. offi­cers said Sunday. 
Meanwhile, in southern Iraq, the U.S. Army began an airlift to Saudi Arabia of refugees who fear reprisals from Iraqi security forces if they remain. That was seen as a major step toward the U.S. troops' own departure. 
Many Iraqis were displaced by the Shiite Muslim revolt in the south and the Kurdish uprising in the north, which broke out after the Persian Gulf War. The insurgencies failed to dislodge Saddam, who marked his 54th birthday on Sunday. 
But renewed clashes were re­ported between Shiites and Iraqi forces near the southern city of Basra. 
The fighting caused heavy ca­sualties among government Photo forces and at least two person­
U.S. soldiers with the Third Armored Division set up barbed wire 
nel carriers were set ablaze,
Thursday atop a berm which surrounds the U.N. camp in Safwan, Iraq 
Iranian radio reported. The 
where four unarmed military observers are stationed. The camp is the 
broadcast, monitored in Lon-
first formal U.N. presence in the demilitarized zone. 
Awards given to graduate students 
Special to The Obeerver 
The Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation has announced the recipients of two new awards to graduate students. Rev. Maxwell Johnson was given the Alumni Association Graduate Teaching Award and Eric Hes­sels received the Alumni Asso­ciation Graduate Research Award. 
Both awards are new this year and will be given annually to ND graduate students. The Alumni Association also recog­nizes an outstanding under­graduate and graduate student each year with the Distin­guished Student Award. 
Johnson, a Lutheran minister, is pursuing a doctorate in li­turgy through Notre Dame's theology department. Accord­ing to Rev. Richard McBrien, Crowley -O'Brien -Walter pro­fessor of theology and chair­man of the department, John­son consistently receives excel­lent teaching evaluations from his students. Conversations with his students, McBrien said, indicate that he is successful in making theology come alive in,' his courses. 
~ 
r. Hessels, a doctoral candidate 
r 
in physics, is involved with ba­sic research related to the fun­damental laws of electric and magnetic forces. He recently presented his thesis on "Precision Microwave Spec­troscopy of High Angular Mo­mentum n=10 Helium Ryderg States," which concerns an electron's large, nearly circular orbit around a positive bellum ion. 
He has used lasers and mi­crowaves to measure precisely the energies of the different possible orbits. 
During his studies at Notre Dame, Hessels has published eight articles in research jour­nals and has given several talks at scientific conferences. 

1)AY OF ~ODRNING TOR oyiCWIMs oF wMn @-DuT WAR 
*~ONDAY ~PRiu 29. 1991* 
4:30PM 1)RMON8'TRA'TION War Memorial 
5:15PM 13-fl?Qtllfl?M 1:JA88 Sacred Heart Church 

8:00PM ~RC'TfJRR: 
QON8&Qti&NC&8 OF "YM&\VAR. Center for Social Concerns Multi-purpose Room 
*Professor Alan Dowty Department of Government International studies 
*Father Patrick Gaffney. C.S.C. Department of Anthropology Middle East Specialist 
To Help Express Our Mourning We Suggest That Students and Faculty Wear Black 
*SPON80R&D EY 'T'M& @-tlL!F ORI818 ~C'T'ION @-ROtlP* 
don, also claimed rebels at­tacked government intelligence posts in the southern cities of Al-Amarah and Karbala, killing some Iraqi troops. 
The report could not be inde­pendently verified. 
In northern Iraq, the initial allied-protected security zone was to have encompassed a 630-square-mile area that stretched 18 miles south and 35 miles east of Zakho. Allied troops were also planning to complete one camp before starting another. 
Now, the new zone is envi­sioned to be about 1,350 square miles and troops will start a second camp before finishing the first. 
Army officers said the change of plans came after they real­ized that not all the Kurds were willing to come to the camp at Zakho, where about 1,000 tents have been set up for refugees. 
In addition, the officers said they hoped that expanding the size of the zone would encour­age Kurds to come down from the mountains, where many of them live in appalling condi­tions but are too afraid of Iraqi retribution to leave. 
In the easternmost allied push so far, a company of British Royal Marines moved into the Iraqi town of Batufla, about 18 miles east of Zakho, on Saturday night. 
When the British troops ar­rived, a battalion of Iraqi Re­publican Guard left, officers said. 
Soon, U.S. Marines from the 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit will enter Amadiyah, about 75 miles east of Zahko, where a second camp is planned, said 
U.S. Army Lt. Col. Jim Christo­phersen, of the 432nd Civil Af­fairs Company of Green Bay, Wis. 
"This will effectively double the size of the security zone," said Christophersen, whose men will manage both camps until the United Nations and humanitarian agencies can take over. 
Privately, some officers ex­pressed concern that the ex­pansion, by increasing allied military involvement in Iraq, could raise the possibility of coalition forces being drawn into a quagmire in Iraq. 

----------------------------------------------~---------~-~ --~­





Business
Monday, April 29, 1991 page 9 
Bush asks allies to cut interest rates 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Presi­pered over policy differences dent Bush personally appealed that existed between the United on Sunday for foreign allies to States and Japan and Germany. cut interest rates to help lift the The communique was filed United States out of a reces­with vague promises -but no 
sion. specific commitments 
But his appeal did not win The statement said the seven any immediate public support nations had agreed "to monitor from the two countries it was the situation closely and to take primarily aimed at -Germany actions as needed ... with a and Japan. Finance officials view to achieving a sound from those nations said infla­recovery and a growing world tionary pressures limited their economy." Those actions were ability to cut rates. not spelled out. 
Bush made his pitch for Striking a hopeful note, the global rate cuts at an unusual finance officials said there were White House lobbying session "signs of perspective economic with finance ministers and cen­recovery and lower inflation in tral bank presidents of the those countries which are in re­world's seven largest industrial cession." countries. In a bow to U.S. concerns, the 
After the brief meeting with statement said "the persistence 
Currency exam
Bush, the finance leaders of high real interest rates and moved across the street for six the slowing of economic activity Daniel Stewart (foreground) and Marvin Chavers inspect currency that has been printed at the new De­hours of discussion and then in those countries which until partment of Treasury Bureau of Engraving and Printing Western Currency Facility in Fort Worth, Texas. late Sunday issued a joint recently had been experiencing The new money printing plant was dedicated in ceremonies on Friday. statement that essentially pa-strong expansion." 

Brown: Japanese businesses negotiate through the media 
By COLLEEN GANNON lation of the U.S.," he said. close to deciding something Brown used the media's cov­make a plan that we'll bring in 
Business Editor "The reporters in Japan are without any quotes or attribu­erage of a Toyota story last a pile of Volkswagons and we 
organized into clubs each of tion, according to Brown. week to support his argument. care about Europe, he said. 
Many Japanese businesses which is tied -very closely and "Then the public reaction is An announcement by Toyota "They don't care if any of the and political organizations ma­quite formally -to one or an­the way that the people who that Japanese Toyota dealers dealers invest in Volkswagen or nipulate the country's widely other business or commercial leaked the story in the first would start to distribute Volk­not as long as they are able to read media to test or negotiate institution or federation or place decide whether or not swagons and Audis started the say we are going to set up a their positions, said Kenneth government department," they should do it," he said. story. plan that makes them able to Brown, International public af­Brown explained. "That is a litmus test. They "The first day stories dealt do it," according to Brown. fairs manager for Ford Motor For example, one club covers negotiate through the media," with the need to improve The most important ingredi­Company,Thursday. the Toyko Stock Exchange. Brown concluded. Japan's balance of trade and ent is not the event that is 
Brown compared the circula­Keidanren club reporters cover He noted the very disciplined wouldn't it be great if the being reported but rather the tions of the most popular U.S. Ford Motor Company news in order present in Japan. "It is strong, Toyota Motor Company reason being advanced for that newspapers with those in Japan. hard to imagine that in such an would start selling Volkswagons event taking place, he said. 
Japan to show what he meant "Each of the clubs, while be­organized society the only from Europe," BrtJwn said. by "widely read." The top ing heavily dependent on its rebels around are reporters," When you look at the details, "What I'd be willing to bet on, newspapers in the U.S. are the client as its primary source of he said. "It doesn't seem likely you fmd it is not quite what you though, is that each one of us Wall Street Journal and USA news and comment, enjoys the to me," he added. expect, he said. Dealers will here tonight, including me, be­Today with circulations of priority over all other clubs to "If you decide this is unlikely, have to set up a separate facil­lieves at least one thing which roughly 1.5 million each, he that particular news," he said. then you got to think that there ity to see Volkswagons and is very Important In his or her 
noted. "This highly organized set of is something more strategically Audis. They would then have overall perspective about the 
In Japan, the Yomiuri Shim­reporters working for clubs is important going on," Brown to buy Japanese land at Japanese, but guess what, it bun morning and afternoon regularly running stories that stated. astronomical prices to set up a probably isn't true," Brown editions combine for daily sales a're signals, sometimes a com­"The reporting and the re­new store, Brown stated. concluded. of close to 9 million. pletely false story that later porters are used to negotiate, "Not too many of them will Brown advised the public to 
Japan's equivalent to the Wall gets denied," Brown stated. to advance positions, most fre­leap at that," he said. get more than one report on a 
Street Journal, the Nlhon "No attribution is confirmed at quently a pro-Japanese nation­"The story is out there be­story, and If the story still does Keizal Shimbun, sells almost 5 anytime," he added. alistic position," he said, "And cause Toyota is very nervous not make sense, find more re­million copies daily. "That is "Sometimes it (a story) ap­often the most important in­that the European community, ports. almost three times as much as pears and we don't know it un­gredient is trying to make it as we get closer and closer to The Notre Dame Council on the Wall Street Journal sells," til later on that it is a test of the difficult for something to hap­1992, is still going to take a International Business Devel­
Brown said. atmosphere," he said. pen somewhere in the world very hard line on Japanese au­opment sponsored the "That is stunning readership A company or institution will that the system in Japan would tomobiles," said Brown. roundtable dinner with Brown In a country with half the popu-leak a story that says they are prefer not to happen." Toyota says why don't we at the Jamison Inn. 

AP Photo 

Rich countries don't save enough, according to developing countries 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The broad consensus among the world's richest nations aren't group that lower interest rates saving enough, lending enough would help developing coun­or doing enough to keep inter­tries. est rates down, finance minis­ters of poorer nations said The ministers called for Sunday. greater lending by Industrial­
The ministers of 24 develop­ized nations and international ing countries, meeting prior to financial Institutions. They sessions opening Monday of the urged approval of a new alloca­155-nation International Mone­tion of drawing rights by the tary Fund and the World Bank, IMF, which would have the ef­expressed concern that indus­fect of increasing countries' trial countries over the last two ability to obtain financing. The decades "have shifted from be­United States opposes such a ing net suppliers to being net proposal. users of global savings." 
"We call on the Industrial 
"Ministers urged these coun­countries to reconsider their tries to implement and coordi­positions, and we will see what nate their policies so as to re­response we get," Hommes said verse the declining trend in at a briefing for news media. their saving ratios, in order to The ministers, In their state­achieve lower real interest ment, expressed concern about rates and higher levels of eco­the decreasing rate of world 
AP Photo 

nomic activity of all countries," economic growth and cautioned 
Route sale allowed the Group of 24 said In a com­that improved growth projec­munique. tions for developing countries
Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner announced in Washington Thursday that the Transportation 
Columbian Finance Minister in 1992 and beyond may be
Department will allow Trans World Airlines to sell three London routes to American Airlines. Skinner is 
Rudolf Hommes, who chaired "overly optimistic and may not
not allowing TWA to sell three other london routes to America, saying it would be anti-competitive. 
the meeting, said there was a materialize." 

Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, April29, 1991 


P.O. EJ0x Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Busln-Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
N-s Editor •••.••••••••••••••.•••• Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..•.•.Julie Sheridan VI-point Editor••••••..•••••••••.Joe Moody Ad Daslgn Manager •••••••••Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager •••....•••••Jay Colucci Accent Editor ...•.•...•......••• .John OBrien Systems Manager .••.••..•...•••.Mark Sloan Photo Editor ••.•......••......•.•••.• Eric Bailey OTS Director .•••••...•••••••••..•Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor•..•..••••..Emily Willett Controllar .........•......•••.. Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accant Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

Irish-American student P.I.S.S.E.D. about 'Fightin' Irish' stereotypes 
Former Dean of Administration clarifies feelings about leaving NO 
Dear Editor: 
A big cheer is due for SUFR. They have opened my eyes to the racism and oppression that is the Notre Dame experience. I also am a member of an ethnic group. I am an Irish­American, the son of two humble immigrants who made their way to this country guided by that false beacon of hope and opportunity that is the Statue of Liberty. 
Regrettably, I must admit that I am a white male, but I hope this will not be held against me because my people, too, have been op­pressed. I am speaking of the myriad of wrongs that my people has suffered for cen­turies at the hands of those evil, Western European, English, imperialist pig-dogs. My blood boils just thinking about it. Nothing of value could ever come out of a coun­try like England, absolutely nothing. This is, however, an­other story. 
My purpose in writing this letter is to bring to the attention of the student body that it is not only students of color who are victims of racism and stereotypes. I am referring, of course, to the term "Fighting Irish" which is so proudly emblazoned all across this campus. I cannot describe the pain I feel every time I see it. You see, I have never been in a fight, nor has 
DOONESBURV 
my father. 
Yet, every time someone learns I am Irish, they immedi­ately take a step back into a defensive fighting position. Furthermore, there is the terrible stereotype which is portrayed on all those "Partyin' Irish" t-shirts. Believe it or not, I am writing this in a sober state. In fact, I didn't even have a beer on St. Patrick's day. 
Due to these grievances I have formed a student group to lobby (i.e. force) the University to change its racist ways. Our group is called 
P.I.S.S.E.D. (Peaceful Irish Students Seeking Educational Diversity). We demand the institution of a mandatory Irish Studies program. This program should consist of Irish history classes, Irish music and dance classes, and Gaelic language classes. This program will help students understand the Irish experience and to learn of the many great contributions which the Irish have given to the world. 
We all know, of course, that it was St. Brendan who discov­ered America, not that evil op­pressor Columbus. The above history courses will focus on the English oppression of the Irish and the prevalence of Irish stereotypes in America. 
In keeping with this 
objective, we demand that the Leprechaun and the slogan "the Fighting Irish" be abolished immediately. Not only does the "Fighting Irish" perpetuate a hateful stereotype, but it also excludes all the other ethnic groups on campus. Perhaps the Notre Dame "People" would be a good replacement. 
Finally, we would like to ex­press our support of SUFR's demand for a multi-cultural center (which we argue and demand must be no less than a $35 million state of-the art complex). 
We demand that this building be built by companies owned by Irish people, and, of course, we demand that any plans for such a center approved by P.I.S.S.E.D. 
P.I.S.S.E.D. demands that it be taken seriously. If Father Malloy does not agree to meet with us within two hours we will be forced to demand a press conference and make our grievances known to the world. We are sick and tired of the oppressive and racist nature of the University of Notre Dame, a place where every day is filled with misery. We demand the support of the student body to help us bring about these changes. 
James A. Hernon Flanner Hall April 24, 1991 

Old College deserves recognition 
YOU'Re lXNT [)()6 M& Ol/T,
I VOWNTEERED

RAY! TIM£370 NOTMe,MAN. 
YOU'Re 

()(JTOF W/?13.' P.lt'U.~ 8t3 CK-1, YeAH? IA!t'Rt MCNIN6 NftU Ot<a3RS. 
TO U/ORJ< IN ON/i

HAU.A,MAN.' I JU5T60T 
fAJ1AT? 

YaJR.MIN~ ()(JTA 7HCR& IN 7WO IAJH!t:H OJMP'? {}(JT IN mN IM HffA[?fN(j 
OF 7H& Rfff.JGel3 
r.AMP.3. I M/9:£/J 

RAY! YOU 7HR!Z, I M!NUTe5.' I NORTH. 
!<NOW /rtAXi AGURWI M16HT 
TH£1-1PR,~I 

/ THAF
I 
A~ W& HttP(1fT IAJrTH 7H& PEAa. 

Dear Editor: 
Having been away at a meet­ing of the National Association for College Registrars and Admissions Officers, I didn't see the article titled "Dean Winicur Leaves ND Post Without Regret" (The Observer, April 12) until last night. That title and to some extent the article itself, is a misrepresentation of my feelings about leaving Notre Dame. 
As I tried to make clear to The Observer reporter during our brief telephone conversa­tion before I left for that meet­ing, I had no regrets about the decision to join Franklin College but, in fact, had very mixed feelings about leaving Notre 
Dear Editor: 
In 1842, Father Sorin and several Holy Cross brothers arrived in the Northern Indiana wilderness determined to build a school to serve the academic and spiritual needs of this area. In 1843, they built the first building out of the mud. and clay from the twin lakes. This building still stands on the shore of Saint Mary's lake right beside the log chapel. It is now called the Old College. 
The Old College has served in many capacities in its 150 year history. Currently, it houses the Holy Cross formation program for undergraduates. While it is understandable that many students do not know about the Old College, it is simply 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE Of THE DAY 
Dame. In the 21 years that I have been at Notre Dame I have worked with many wonderful people and have made a lot of very dear friends. I shall miss them all dearly. What I learned from and at Notre Dame was what made Franklin College interested in having me serve as Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the College. 
I wish to acknowledge the debt I owe Notre Dame and to assure all my friends and col­leagues that although I will miss them I will not forget them. 
Daniel H. Wlnlcur Former Dean of Administration April 24, 1991 
inexcusable that the 1991 yearbook staff forgot (or omit­ted) the "Cradle of the Univer­sity" from the pages of, the "Dome." To add insult to in­jury, the "Dome" included two­page spreads on Moreau Semi­nary, Off-Campus and Holy Cross Hall, a dorm that, at least physically, doesn't exist anymore. As Notre Dame gears up to celebrate its Sesquicentennial, we wonder if anyone will take the time to notice the original "L'Universite de Notre Dame du Lac" and the students who live there. 
Mike McGarry Mike Mathews Kevin Heffernan Anton Eppich Old College April 23, 1991 

'The butterfly counts
UH... 
t/3S9155. 
C4MP 

not months but moments, 
Qf.JAGMIR&. 

and has time enough.' 
I 
Rabindranath Tagore 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Monday, April 29, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student argues validity of comments concerning gays 
Dear Editor: 
Professor Rice of the Notre Dame Law School has, In his recent Guest column (The Ob­server, April 17) demonstrated to the astonishment of many that Neanderthals can think. Now, I don't really mean that Professor Rice ls a Neanderthal, but from the things he wrote in his column, I begin to wonder. 
Professor Rice goes beyond "discussion of the Issues" in his column. He attacks, though neatly and seemingly unobtru­sively, the very character of lesbians and gay people when he writes that their sexual ex­pression Is "objectively wrong." But because we still don't, as a it a "gay" disease. the response to this idea Is unfortunate. One has only to look to Africa, where AIDS is a virus that mainly attacks nongays. AIDS is a disease that has attacked mostly gay men. In America, today however, the fastest growing number of AIDS cases being reported Is no longer among gay men, but among other minorities: blacks, Hispanics and women. 

3. "...the University...ought to. . .demand that homosexuals refrain from the objectively wrong behavior which is a me­nace to themselves and poten­tially to the health of the com­munity."
edgeable to make judgements. his unenlightened self, he would for a fuller discussion of this
culture, recognize lesbians and 4. "Justice to the homosexuals 
In other words, we want ex­certainly limit another's ability ridiculous point). The sextal 
gays as a kind of people unto as well as to the rest of the 
per·s to tell us what is best. to discriminate (and I'm using practices of lesbians have only
themselves, we let hem get community requires an Insis­
this word in the legal sense, not minutely been linked to trans­
away with it. tence on the duty to refrain
Don't expect an expert in the purely perceptual way in mission of the HIV virus
As a gay man I find what he from homosexual activity." I've
judgement about racial con­which we distinguish blue from (although the number of re­
says to be personally offensive: already pointed out the 
cerns to come from David Duke green). Yet, when it comes to ported cases is growing, as it is
he attacks my very absurdity of using a phrase like 
(the ex-Klan State Representa­gays and lesbians, some dis­with all women). 
existence-but enough anger. "homosexual activity." 
tive from Louisiana). Don't ex­crimination should be allowed,
There are reasoned points to be If the Professor would like to
pect expert judgement about according to the Professor. When I think about what les­
made, and corrections to be talk about sex, If he'd like to say
lesbians or gays to come from Why, I ask? Lesbians and gay bian and gay people do together
learned. that gays and lesbians should 
someone that is nongay. men are people first and ("homosexual activities"), my
Professor Rice states the fol­refrain from sex because of
A second synonym for foremost; they come out of the list includes: going to church,
lowing, all of which I find to be AIDS, he's still misinformed, but
"objective" Is the phrase "what womb with their sexual raising families, going to the
Incorrect, and not just at least we have something to
most people would say," -more orientation undistinguished (if movies, eating dinner, playing
"politically Incorrect": begin to discuss-but not much,
precisely, the average, or norm. not decided)-they come out of football, repairing the house,
1. "The universlty...rlghtly because not all lesbian and gay
This is only a statistical norm, the womb full-fledged human writing letters in response to
emphasizes that the objective sexual activities are unsafe.
however, and just as numbers beings, with the rights accorded ignorant professors. 
wrongness of homosexual ac­Sexual activities that are con­
and might do not make right, all other human beings. But Professor Rice clearly has 
tivity does not warrant unjust sidered unsafe: intercourse
neither do they make a moral Let me suggest Professor Rice only one thing in mind,
discrimination against persons without a condom, oral sex
argument. (Translation: just go to St. Joseph's Hospital, although he seems unable to
who may have homosexual without a dental clam or rub­
because most of the world is stand over the womb, and de­write it. for him, "homosexual
tendencies" There are four ber. 
nongay doesn't mean all of the cide at birth who should be sin­activity" means S-E-X! It's a
points to make here (a to d). Sexual activities that are con­
world should be nongay.) gled out for bigotry, harassment simple word, of just three let­
a) First, what exactly Is sidered safer: embracing, kiss­
b) What does the Professor and physical attack. (Such ters" why can't he write it? Ev­
"objective wrongness?" I be­Ing, masturbation, intercourse
mean by "wrongness?" If he arbitrariness at least shows up erybody-give it a try, astonish
lieve most students who have with a condom, oral sex with a
has a moral implication, then for what it is, instead of shallow your neighbor, say the word:
completed the Freshman condom.
he should state from what argument.) Then let the SEX.
Writing Program have exam­The above list ls by no means
moral tradition he is speaking Professor come back and tell us I deal with the Safer and Un­
Ined the difficulties surrounding complete. Please do some re­
(he can't do thls, of course, or all what the meaning of just and safe aspects of sexual practices
the word "objective." But I'll go search (i.e., call an AIDS bot­
he'd lose his point about unjust might be. in points 3 and 4.
Into a discussion of Rice's terms line) to find guidelines that are
"objective"; it's "objective" be­It is not being a gay or lesbian 2. "Homosexual activity .. .is 
anyway. appropriate for you. 
cause he assumes we all hold that garners me rights in this the main factor In the onset of
One synonym for "objective" So, the next time you hear
the exact same moral views). If country, it is being human. AIDS," says Rice. He needs to
might be "disinterested," as in somebody say that being les­
"wrongness" is meant in a d) The Professor uses the go back to high school biology
the way we expect a referee to bian and gay Is somehow
medical sense, see my reply phrase "homosexual activity" in class on this one. The simple,
act. But where minority con­"objectively wrong," remember
points 3 and 4. this and his other points. What obvious reply Is that a virus is
cerns are at hand, we've often this letter, and tell them to think
c) Notice the Professor's could he mean by this phrase? the main factor in the onset of
found that interest must exist again. I'd hate to think that
qualification of discrimination He doesn't tell us. AIDS. It's called HIV.
for there to be a valid judgment. Evolution skipped them, too.
above. "Unjust discrimination" Did the Professor consider Let me go, though, to Rice's
For example, we would expect 
is wrong, so, by implication, just that women participate In uninformed implication. AIDS
women to tell us what their Mlcheal Vora 
discrimination is alright? If he "homosexual activity?" Obvi­has been a disease that has
concerns are, rather than Co-Chair
were talking about blacks, or ously not, since he says that overwhelmingly affected the
hearing about women's con­Gays and Lesbians at Notre 
other racial minorities, or "homosexual activity" gay community in America.
cerns from a panel of men. We Dame/Saint Mary's Collage 
women, or even perhaps about contributes to AIDS (see below that's why so many want to call
expect people that are know!-April 24, 1991 
NO student/mother asks for acceptance of public nursing 
Dear Editor: we are both on campus. Being public place to nurse, I must now, in Year of Women, we that most people in our society 
I am a student here at Notre on campus on a regular basis either lug all these things with should be especially sensitive to have with seeing It done. Dame and the wife of a faculty allows me to take advantage of me, leave them unattended, or the areas in which these two I know that I had never seen a member. I am also the mother various daytime university ac­arrange with someone to watch perspectives can be integrated woman breastfeed until a few of a thirteen month old daugh­tivities of which I might not them for an unpredictable and give support to one months before my daughter was ter whom I breastfeed. My even be aware if I were at home length of time. another. born. The surest way to daughter and I have spent outside of class time. Perhaps if While leaving to nurse may increase societal tolerance of many hours-many days-on we had a family drop-in center only be necessary every few Acceptance of public nursing public breastfeedlng and to in­campus during the past aca­or a low cost childcare coop on hours now that I have a 13 is a first step toward valuing the crease the comfort levels of In­demic year. By and large we campus in which parents could month old, the intervals will be needs of children and toward dividual observers Is for more have felt accepted and wel­participate, I could spend less much closer when I have a very supporting accommodation people, more often, to have the comed by the other students time in LaFortune. young baby again. In fact, with between children's needs and experience of seeing mothers and by faculty and staff mem­a younger baby, not being able the desires, aspirations, needs nurse their children. bers. All the friendly attention As it is, my daughter and I to nurse in a given place will and duties that those who care I ask the offended parties to my daughter has gotten on may seem to be omnipresent in simply mean not being able to for children share with the rest please consider that one campus has been a wonderful the lounge. One reason for this spend time there-as nursing in of humanity. The needs and probably sees more breast experience for her (and for me). is that, unlike students who the early months is often almost duties of mothers and other exposure on prime time TV, on 
I am writing today because I don't have children or aren't continuous. If other areas on primary caregivers take them mainstream magazine covers have been asked that I not with their babies on campus, it campus stop allowing public and their children outside of and on real live women in low breastfeed my daughter in the is difficult for me to move nursing, the only place I will be private spaces and into public cut dresses and bathing suits main floor lounge in LaFortune spontaneously from place to able to nurse my baby is in my ones in which they require the than from a mother nursing. student center because several place around the university. I husband's office. same consideration and young men have complained have an awful lot of baby para­I believe that the lack of ac­freedom of movement enjoyed I don't think the threat or the that my breastfeedlng there phernalia to carry around. I ceptance of nursing in public by others. actual Incidence of this sort of makes them uncomfortable. would have much less to carry places is just one example of I am sorry to have made peo­occurrence should be what The staff suggested that when I if I resorted to disposable the ways in which our society ple uncomfortable by nursing stands to prevent me, my need to nurse I take my daugh­rather than cloth diapers, but I fails to give sufficient attention my daughter in public. I would daughter and lots of other ter to the Dooley room or an­think everyone would agree to the needs of children and of like to help the offended parties mothers and babies on campus other, more Isolated, area. that this is not something any­those who care for them. How work through their discomfort from being full members of the 
My daughter and I spend one should be encouraged to the work of caring for children in a way other than taking my Notre Dame community. 
quite a bit of time In LaFortune do. I have my backpack, the is valued by society is an impor­nursing into the closet. I would and In the lounge. It is easier diaper bag, the stroller, the tant feminist issue and an im­like to point out that one reason Angela Gugliotta for me to share the care of our baby carrier, the baby and often portant pro-life issue, as well. for discomfort with breast­Off Campus 
daughter with my husband if coats, as well. If I leave a Here at Notre Dame, especially feeding Is the lack of experience April 22, 1991 
.J.-J..au.a.u,..~ ......;..,.,,o\luaJodU..-4~•••4..,t. .... .., .................,.,••~ .................,.... ~ .. h.......... •,. 

Viewpoint
page 12 Monday, April29, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
. Dear Editor: We are a approaching a sad anniversary in the history of Ireland. Ten years ago on May 5, a young man named Bobby Sands died of starvation in a British prison in Northern Ireland. He had been on hunger strike for 66 days. He was the first of ten to start and the first of ten to die. It seems appropriate to address the hunger strikes and the current status of Northern Ireland ten years later. 
Until the mid-70s, the British government had recognized a state of war with the IRA. At that time, however, they de­cided to "criminalize" the sta­tus of the IRA prisoners. The prisoners saw this as a further attempt to trivialize their cause and opposed it. Eventually, tensions escalated to hunger strikes in 1980. They seemed to be the only available tool to get the British government to address their demands. The strikes were ended before any deaths took place but the prisoners left empty-handed. This led to the 1981 hunger strikes which Bobby Sands was a part of. After the British allowed ten men to die, they met all of the prisoner's demands except official prisoner of war status. 
Many times I have talked to Irish-Americans whose first pronouncement on the subject of Northern Ireland is how they disapprove of the IRA. What about the UVF, UDR, or RUC (all of which advocate continued union with Britain)? Don't know of them? Well, the British government has certainly been effective in that regard. Due to the efforts of Britain, only the IRA is seen as a "terrorist" organization and Britain has used this to stifle international political pres­sure. 
The Reagan and Bush Administrations have gone right along. Of course, Ireland was never a member of OPEC or the now defunct Warsaw Pact, so our government has seen fit to generally do nothing. Often it has com­promised itself as in the legal case of Joe Doherty. Mr. Doherty is from Northern Ireland and has been detained for the last 6 years in an American jail without violating any U.S. law. He has been detained unconstitutionally strictly by the wishes of the British government, which also demands his extradition. 
The British government has been far better at manipulating our government and our press than actually democratically governing Northern Ireland. Eight cen­turies have seen only the continued un-development of Ireland by Britain. Two major acts of genocide due to Britain have occurred in the last 350 

Dear Editor: a choice "in any meningful with a family and a job, but 
This is in response to Anne sense." I know well many some of us feel they can only Hodgins' bitter and abusive let­women who have done exactly have the family life they want if ter to The Observer (April 26). that, including young women they remain at home. Why 
Hodgins may be surprised to today who are faced with con­does your defmition of freedom find that in "the rest of the tempt from people like Hodgins. require Hodgins to negate my world" she is joining, some What I often wonder is, why is life choice? women don't look at men as it that mothers who stay at I actually feel more pity than power-mad patriarchs, roman­home are often happier than anger, despite Hodgins diatribe. tic fascists, or oppressors. Nor those who appear to be? If we I hope her attitude toward do they think of their (note are leading such meaningless family does not keep her from possessive) husbands as solely lives, not contributing to society, enjoying one of the best parts of "the men with whom they have etc., why is it thay you seem to life. had sexual intercourse." be the angry and embittered 
Hodgins gives lip service to one? I wonder why she chose to the view that "of course women Without the children women come to (and remain at) Notre who choose to remain in the bear and nurture, a society Dame, with its "oppressive home deserve honor and re­won't exist to which men or Catholic traditional." Did she spect," but then ridicules them. women might be "inspired to expect to find a secular univer­That's OK, we don't need vali­contribute." Women who sity? dation from her or from the lovingly give part of themselves I sincerely hope Hodgins will 
to th~eh~ chiidren, and those fmd that peace within chais she 
Year of Women (which we cer­tainly won't get either). childrens' fathers, with or says she wants. I find insulting Hodgin's without employment outside the home, are entitled to respect for Elaine M. Blakey
statement that the women who 
the life-giving paths they freely South Bend, Ind. 
choose to stay home and care 
follow. Some find their way Aprll27,1991for their families have not made 
Seniors are disappointed with yearbook cover 
not of the class and caliber of decision. Notre Dame is a school of tradition and high
Dear Editor: 
Outside of the diploma, one of years past. 
standards so let's not forget this the most treasured pieces of This is our senior yearbook 
our four years at Notre Dame is and its place on our book­in every aspect. Hopefully, next the cherished yearbook. shelves is suddenly in question. years seniors won't be Monday, while waiting patiently Although the inside is very well embarrassed to show anyone in line to receive ours, we saw done, we cannot compliment their senior annuals. 
many smiles of anticipation the cover. There is a time to be turn to frowns of disappoint­trendy and a time to stick to Kristine Gregory ment. When handed our year­tradition. When it comes to 
Susan Espinosa books, we followed suit. The something that is to be kept for Walsh Hall tacky, "Intensely Irish" cover is years it should not be a hard April 23, 1991 
years in this tiny nation: Cromwell and the Famine. 
Of course, many might say that's all in the past-the British are now basically just. High and chronic unemploy­ment (especially among mostly Catholic Nationalists), ongoing violence, political oppression and high emigration speak otherwise. The recent release of the innocent Birmingham Six after 16 years in jail, and last year's release of the Guildford Four after 12 years has further humiliated the British government. 
It seems plain that they can't govern Northern Ireland ade-
Refusal to recognize mothers is appalling 
quately-they never there's no reason to believe they ever will. Unfortunate dates like this May 5 remind us that the situation in the North persists, despite being conveniently ignored by our government. One of the best tools we have right now to effect change is to support the MacBride Principles of Fair Employment. These principles seek to use businesses of various nations in Northern Ireland to enforce fair employment practices. For those worried about the di­vestment nature of the Sullivan Principles for South 
a, Principles do not advocate divestment and they have been surprisingly effective. 
It seems to me that our apa­thy has helped allow many of the injustices in Northern Ireland to occur. Therefore, I encourage everyone to support the MacBride Principles and to follow events in the North through some organization like the Amer­ican Irish Political Education Committee. 
Bob Kehol Off-campus April23,1991 

Dear Editor: 
The Faculty Senate's response to Professor Douglas Kmiec and his colleagues was appalling. Their decision not to recognize women who choose to raise families is a glaring omission-. For a handful of people in responsible positions to snub the vocation of choice for many women is a cause for concern. 
Many college graduates, in­cluding our own alumni, have chosen to use their education to nurture and train their chil­dren. This is no small thing in a society filled with troubled peo­ple who may be leading differ­ent lives had they been blessed with such mothers. 
Notre Dame is charitable to those whose views are different than its own. However, it has failed to show the same toler­ance for views that reflect its Catholicity. 
Christopher J. Godfrey Notre Dame Law School April 22, 1991 

Theft of Earth Day plaque reveals apathetic view of world destruction 
Dear Editor: 
Recently, on one of my lake­side promenades, I paused to admire the plaque commemo­rating Earth Day. I had notices the said plaque on an earlier wai.k., but at thiS moment, 10 and behold, the plaque was gone. Some individual(s) had committed a dire travesty against the entire student body, against the entire Notre Dame community, and had somehow pried the plaque free from its cement base. 
How ironic that such a tes­tament of the Earth's natural beauty, a commemoration bearing witness to our hopes for the planet's future, was maliciously stolen from the foot of this dedicated tree. I cannot find it within myself to forgive the person(s) responsible for his appalling degradation of our campus. 
To think that a ND student, presumably a semi-intelligent and moral being, would reduce himself to such a pathetic level serves to reinforce my opinion that some individuals still 
maintain an apathetic VIew about the present destruction that our world is experiencing at this very moment. This atti­tude must be changed if our children are to have any hope for tomorrow. 
I would like to suggest that the University of Notre Dame show its commitment to its students and the future by mustering the small sum needed to replace the plaque. 
Sean Arthurs Erich Baker Mike Rood Flanner Hall April 24, 1991 

------------~ 
Accent 
Monday, April 29, 1991 page 13 
By MEREDITH how people will react to it." John Fletcher, one of the
MCCULLOUGH 
students represented, agreed
Accent Writer 
with his professor. "Having a show is something that helps
Lights! Cameras! Action! 
make you feel a little betterMove over Hollywood-Notre 
about what you've done
Dame film students are on the because you get a response," he 
loose. Armed with cameras, 
said.

Imaginations, and talent, students from Basic Film and Fletcher, who is currentlyProduction and Advanced Film enrolled in Basics of Film andand Production classes have Production and plans to takespent the past year creating a the advanced course next year,myriad of short film projects has submitted a few short films which will be shown tonight at 
that were originally
the Snlte Museum. 
assignments for class. The "Student World 
He expressed that in the
Premiers" will cover a wide future he would "like to be able range of subjects, according to to do my own projects, but a lotTed Mandell, Assistant of what is being shown is aboutProfessional Specialist in the what they told us to do."
Communication and Theater 
It may seem restricting to
department. 
only do assigned work, but Fletcher clarified this mis­
"It will be like flipping conception. "There is a lot ofthrough cable stations for an leeway," he explained. 
hour and a half," he said. With satyrs, comedies, commercial For example, he describedparodies, and documentaries, "I one of the pieces being shown
don't think anything will be 
titled "Comic Book Life." Theboring." 
assignment merely asked for aThe purpose behind this film 
segment presenting a chase
festival is two-fold: to raise scene, but Fletcher exercisedmoney for a local charity and to creativity to create a film ingive students the opportunity to which frames of a comic book
present their work to a large Mandell, who graduated as a ,.. 
come to life around its artist. r
audience. Notre Dame Communications ( 
Though he said the film was 
and Theater major in 1986, 
a challenge, using difficult
Having an event like the said that while he was an ND 
effects that take time to perfect, !
festival is "an easy way to student, smaller shows similar 
Fletcher called the whole
generate money," Mandell said. to this one were often held.
experience "really enjoyable." 
All the proceeds from the $2 Most of those who came to see 
Other films that will be
~dm Iss ion charge will be the nlms either had friends who 
featured include work focusing
donated to El Campito Day Care were acting in them or were renter, a "low-profile charity on: actors themselves. He said he 
•Herman the Dead Mackeral,
tl1at not too many people know hoped this audience would be 
a promotional commercial for a
about." larger. 
•

joke situation comedy, Not only will the program •Doug Church, a true-to-life
benefit the children at the "I'd like to see 600 people see 
local Elvis impersonator,
center, but ll will be advan­these quality films and videos 
•Fat Shirley's,
tageous for Notre Dame that not many people on 
•local truckers,
.. tudents as well. campus know about," he said. 
•Jack in the Box, a preview
"It Is important to have a Chris Walsh, another student 
for a longer film that will be
show like this," Mandell said. from Basics of Film and 
completed in the fall, 
lie explained that anytime one Production said, "People would 
•Saint Mary's Maid, 
makes a film, they "create a be surprised that the students 
•the Miss Coloma Beauty
piece of work to be shown to an who produced these films are in 
Pageant,

audience." a 'basics' of film class." The 
•a local stripper, 
content and quality is far 
)

When film students watch superior than what most people
This Is not the first time that
their own work, they examine it will expect, he continued. 
the department has sponsoredwith knowledge of both the such a film festival. "We've had
assignment and technical According to Mandell, most of 
them in the past," said Mandell, 
aspects of the film industry, he the projects were completed on 
"but never this big."
explained. campus and will use students as 
In February a similar 
actors and actresses. He 
production was held to "see
He continued, It Is imperative describes the program as "90 
what kind of interest we would
for the film maker to present minutes of Notre Dame stars." 
generate," he said. With little to
his or her work to an audience There will be two screenings 
no advertising, 70 people Otlaerwr/
outside of the field "or they tonight at 7 and 9 p.m. at the 
don't know how to Improve showed up to see two and a half Snite Museum of Art. Admission ND student Nate Fitzgerald edits films for the "Student World hours of material. Premiers".
their work-they don't know is $2. 
'Guess Who' survives the test of time 
By BRENDAN REGAN 
Accent Writer 
Over the course of the last 19 years many musical groups have come and gone. 
Some are one-hit wonders; others last to see several albums released before fading Into popular oblivion. Only the truly outstanding, most endearing artists are able to withstand the test of time. The Guess Who, famous for such timeless classics as "American Woman" and "These Eyes," Is the epitome of musical longevity. 
Although faces and appear­ances have changed since the band's first Notre Dame per­formance in 1972, The Guess Who returned in full force Saturday night as part of the 1991 An Tostal Week festivities. 
How does it feel to be back at Notre Dame? "Great. I re­member playing here now," re­sponded original bass gui­tarisVbackup vocalist Jim Kale In his husky baritone. "It's been almost 20 years!" Indeed, the band performed with the same enthusiasm that most certainly was present when the act was getting its initial exposure to stardom. 
Many years later The Guess Who has an impressively large repertoire of smash hits to its credit that spans a period of over two decades, and Saturday night's lineup covered them all. 
The group originated in 1962 under the name AI and the Silver Tones. This was changed to Chad Allen and the Reflections and later to Chad Allen and the Expressions be­fore the band settled on its cur­rent name in 1965. 
According to drummer Garry Peterson, they changed the name in an effort to gain the 
attention of radio stations for the single "Shakin' All Over" during a time when the nation's airwaves were being dominated by the British invasion. The band's promoters left the words "Guess Who" where the name of the artist would ordinarily appear. 
This idea turned out to be so successful that the group adopted the name, and a rock legend was thus born. 
Lead vocalist Kenny Carter, who earlier this year celebrated the sixth anniversary of his joining The Guess Who, admits that he's partial to "The Razor's Edge," a number which he helped compose. He said that the group will be bringing its new material into the recording studio this fall (late September or early October) at a site yet to be determined (most likely Phoenix). 
The opportunity Carter took halfway through Saturday night's show for a brief repose gave the audience a chance to enjoy the guitar prowess of Dale Russell. In addition, a tenor sax improvisation was provided by keyboard player Leonard Shaw, who also handled the flute solo in "Undun." 
Peterson, who started playing the drums virtually as soon as he was old enough to hold the sticks in his hands, provided an interesting, little-known histor­ical note relating to the pho­tography for the cover of the top-selling release The Best of The Guess Who (and the inner sleeve of the record format of 
that title). 
The pictures were taken in the Topanga Canyon in California at the same time the major 1970 earthquake hit the area. He said that in several instances the band members could actually feel the ground shaking under them during the shooting. 
Saturday night's performance was an unqualified success, a standard which has become routine for this legendary group over the span of its career. 
Accent 
page 14 Monday, April 29, 1991 
Modern dancers exhibit artistic style 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR continued their sequence of Saint Mary's Accent Editor patterns as if suspended in mid air. 
Modern dance is an ambiguous artform that can be "Ray's Club" was a jazzy interpreted in multiple ways. routine that was definitely This was evident at the Spring seductive. Seven dancers in a Forward-Fall Back concert on straight line clad in black Friday night at Moreau Little dresses and red gloves stuck Theater. demure, reserved poses. The 
musical pace picked up and the 
One thing that seemed to be women got out of line, broke common among audience away from conventional duties, members was the level of and enjoyed their freedom. excitement and anticipation Viewers who have seen the during each performance. The movie "Rainman" found the concert was characterized by dance "Babbit" very familiar. variety in style, music, Choreographer Susan Olney costumes, and mood. Dances was not short on creativity 
were choreographed by both when she composed a dance students and Sue Cherry, a between two autistics who visiting Assistant Professor of communicate with each other Dance at Saint Mary's. the way the character Raymond 
"Friendly Competition" was did. The quotes and an appropriately titled tap mannerisms were taken directly dance/duel in which Maria from the movie and woven into Brennan and Danielle an attention-grabbing 
Duchatellier attempted to out­conversation. tap each other. The competition was so fierce that at one point Everything about "Round the there was a fight scene. The Way Girls" was very current lively dance was a battle to the from the song "Her" by GUY to end until one of them offered the most popular video dance her hand while the other moves. Two dancers in red and responded by sticking out her white short dresses were tongue. suddenly joined by men and 
With strategically glowing women in slick street clothes. 
sections of costume and props, The audience was very the most unusual pictures were responsive to the familiar styles created. In "Woddle," invisible that graced the stage. dancers used long ribbons to form triangles, a spoked wheel, Spring Forward-Fall Back 
a wave, and a smiley face. was an entertaining showcase 
The same glow-in-the-dark of artistic talent that spanned technique was featured in all dances and songs. The "Dancecappella." Dancers program expressed the liberties exercised a unique creation of that modern dance can take. It visual and audio rhythm by showed the ingenuity of knocking sticks and chanting incorporating radically different nonsensical words. The movements and using little capstone was after the lights more than bodies to convey a were dimmed and the sticks message. 
,'Jericho Sessions' samples campus musicians 
By ELIZABETH VIDA disc," said Chris Walter, an executive The idea of producing a compact disc Among the best of the bands on the CD Accent Writer board member for WVFI. started to become a reality when Cyril are Fresh Water for the Horses, ("Little Oake, owner of Acorn Studios, heard Lover"), Bone Forest ("Autistic for the ND students can now bring the great "Kevin Flaherty (also a board member about the idea and gave Walter a call, Night"), Chronic Desire ("Strangesounds of a wide variety of campus acts with WVFO and myself had just planned offering a "really favorable rate," in Addiction"), Jester ("Love Lay Down"),with them wherever they go. an acoustic album, one recorded here at Walter's words. Chisel ("Swamp Fox/ Spike"), and The 
It's available on "The Jericho our studio at WVFI with two track reels. Shortly after that, around Junior Five 0' Clock Shadows, ("Bee Slippers"), Sessions," a compact disc produced with But then we decided to include the Parent's Weekend, Flaherty and Walter a very impressive and polished set of WVFI. "Thanksgiving was the frrst time bands because we thought we might not ran a half page ad in the Observer performers who, like Chisel, are known we thought of putting out a compact get enough acoustic acts." asking for tapes from musical acts. far beyond the borders of South Bend. 
Almost 30 acts submitted tapes, and 19 were chosen. "Bee Slippers" was recorded on December 7 of last year at the famous 
"Everyone put together a lot of stellar Fredonia State Music festival, where The stuff quickly," remarked Walter. All but Five 0' Clock Shadows got a chance to four of the acts recorded their songs at make themselves known to some of the Acorn Studios, and in order to defray the industry's agents. cost of the project, Walter said, "Each The CD costs eight dollars, and all band chipped in about 50 dollars and proceeds go to United Way for the they got all the time they needed to get Emergency Shelter for Adolescents their recordings done." through the Youth Services Center. 
15 bands finished recording in seven "We had originally planned to sell the days, with an average of eight hours bulk of the COs during Hogstock, but spent in the studio a day. because it was cancelled, we might not 
The music chosen for the disc is be able to sell all of them before the end indeed, a "Notre Dame sampler," of the year," said Walter. offering blues from Little Geneva (an The COs are also available at the offshoot of Jester), some folk from Tony WVFI office on the second floor of 
Graffeo, a rock ballad from Don LaFortune after 2 p.m. on Mondays, McGahn, and just enough punk (one Wednesdays, and Fridays, and afer 4 song). p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
It even includes a potential cult favorite, according to Walter, Brian They are going to be on sale all this Muller's "Spacey Floater." week, at 4 p.m. on Fieldhouse Mall, 
The reasoning behind making a while some of the bands featured on the sampler instead of an all punk or all CD play. XYZ Affair is playing today, and classic rock album, is simple. As Walter The Five O'Clock Shadows on Tuesday, if put it, "This campus is somewhat di­weather permits. verse; musically. Walter summed up the experience, 
This CD offers a broad representation "Initially we were doing this project of campus music. Every person here will because it was fun, and it grew really, like at least three or four songs on the really big. It ended up being a lot of album. There's something for every-work, but it will be my most memorable one." experience here, I'm sure. It was an 
That something includes some very absolute blast to do." professional productions. 



T;
Aetna Insti­
1Seminar (vii) In 1988 and again inthe Notre 
a m e tute for Co­Program and 1990 the various units of the rporate Ed­I have taught University performed aCommunity: 
in recent personnel audit to determineI am pleased ucation and years cour­the presence and availabilityo address all of attended by 
you as mem­faculty, stu­ses related at various levels of the Notre. to the Dame work force ofbers of the No-dents and 
administr-.. themes "Cul­employees from minoritytre Dame com­
tural Diver­backgrounds. From this data
munity about a matter of a tors. 
One of the sity, • "Relig­affirmative action goals weregreat importance in our 
ious Diver­assigned and administrators
common life. I speak of what fears of 
those invol­sity," "Images charged with implementation.is sometimes called "cultural 
diversity." ved with the of Male and In addition, internal training Female," and programs have been
In the almost 149 years of Year of Cul­established increase
its existence Notre Dame has tural Diver­"Stories from to 
Around the possibilities for advance­
gone through many profound sity was that World."
changes. It began as the it would be a ment. 
This exper­(viii) In 1987 the Office of
equivalent of an elementary one-shot 
ience has the Provost announced a
and high school and grew into celebration 
convinced series of affirmative action
a major university. h originally with little 
carryover or me that there goals relative to the hiring ofwas staffed largely by priests, is great ben­minority facuhy. Special funds
brothers and sisters of the lasting effect 
on the cam­efit in broad­were made available to eachCongregation of Holy Cross ening course College for this purpose. The
and now has an expanded pus culture. 
My personal materials to results so far have beenfaculty, staff and admin­
p o the
istration composed of a judgment is e x s e mixed, but effort 
heahhy mix of lay people and that the year was a good start annual amount of scholarship students to literature and continues and this past year assistance available from the cinema that reflect the di­suggests some upturn in our
religious. Its physical facil­and a success relative to its ities, once confined to the specific goals. Obviously, it University by the year 2000, versity of the national and hiring success. was as again with minority students Others (IX) Funding been
Administration Building and a never intended a world community. has 
handful of surrounding complete answer to the larger eligible to benefit both as among the faculty have made available to the Office issues associated with Notre Dame Scholars and reached the same conclusion, of Minority Student Affairs for
structures, now extend over 
through Holy Cross Grants. A and I encourage even more various programming efforts.
more than a thousand acres cultural diversity at the 
University. special feature of this faculty members to consider In addition to Universityof land. 
scholarship program is comparable themes and support, Student Govern­
In the last 25 years two fur­We have over the past four 
years, however, taken a incremental increases in aid materials for their own ment, the Graduate Studentther historic changes have packages to keep pace with courses. Union and various academic
taken place. First, in 1967 the number of other steps to address cultural diversity inflationary increases in (lv) In 1988 we set units have helped to fund aCongregation of Holy Cross 
issues: tuition, room and board. ourselves the goal of growing list of activitiesceded control of the 
(I) In February 1988 we in­Members of the fall 1990 reaching 15% minority related to cultural diversity.
University to a Board of 
creased the endowment fund entering class were the first to representation 1n the These special programs sup­
Trustees made up pre­dominantly of lay women and for minority scholarships fro, benefit from thA new freshman class in 1992 and plement the regular activities $8 million to almost $20 mil­program. of doubling the number of of groups such as the
men and a Board of Fellows 
composed of six Holy Cross lion. In October 1989 we allo­Two individual trustees­minority postbaccalaureate NAACP, the League of United cated an additional $150,000 Ignacio Lozano and John students by the same date. In Latin American Citizens, the
priests and six lay people. 
Kanab-each have made $1-two of the last three freshman Black Cultural Arts Council,
Second, in 1971-72 the Board per year in expendable funds 
for minority student aid, the million gifts to endow scholar­classes we have either met or the Hispanic American
of Trustees approved the 
money to come from the ship funds giving preference exceeded the 15% goal and Organization, the In­admission of women as income of the University's to Hispanic students. we are hopeful that this ternational Student Organiza­undergraduate students, 
making Notre Dame fully licensing program. Also in (II) In November 1989 the success can be sustained. tion, the Native American Stu­1989 we received a $1.25-University established a The Office of Undergraduate dent Association, and others.
coeducational. 
Amidst all these changes million grant from the L.G. minority faculty development Admissions has geared up (x) In April 1991 the Aca­Balfour Foundation to attract program with a $1-million well for this challenge, and demic Council passed a Dis­
Notre Dame has remained 
and assist minority students grant from the Coca-Cola the improved financial aid criminatory Harassmentfaithful to its fundamental mis­
sion to be a Catholic intending to major in Foundation. By providing situation should enable us to Policy, which I subsequently engineering, mathematics or research fellowships to both continue to reach this level of approved for inclusion in all
university and to serve both a beginning and dissertation­student diversity. In addition, appropriate documents of the
society and the Church. Now science. More recently, 
three-year, $75,000-grant year minority graduate an administrative position in University. This policy was thewe are faced again with the 
students, the program aims to the Graduate School has result of extensive dis­
challenge of change and are from the Aetna Foundation 
has been used to establish encourage students at each been created to concentrate cussions throughout thecalled to a renewed 
commitment to do the right similar programs in the Col­level to consider careers in on the recruitment of minority University community. Some thing for the proper reason. leges of Arts and Letters and teaching and research, thus students. Graduate and doubted the wisdom of In my Inaugural Address Business Administration. enlarging the pool of minority undergraduate minority enacting a specific policy, candidates for future faculty applications both are up, and contending that existing
four years ago I described my In May 1990 the Board of 
positions. University policies already
priorities as president of the Trustees announced a major this improves our chances of 
The program also includes getting our proper share of prohibited discriminatory
University; prominent among scholarship funding effort. 
facuhy exchange agreements harassment, in fact if not by
these was sustained effort to While its ultimate goal is to the student pool. 
with traditionally Black col­(v) In 1988 the officers of name. Others sought even
increase cultural diversity. meet the full demonstrated 
need of all admitted students, leges and universities. During the University decided to tighter or more restrictiveThis goal was not and is not the past year special relation­examine thoroughly the wording than the consensus
unique to Notre Dame since its immediate goal is to 
provide increased scholar­ships have been developed composition of each of our draft proposed. In the end, Ivirtually all the nation's more 
prestigious institutions of ship aid to the most qualified with Xavier University in New Advisory Councils and to believe that the seemingly of each year's admitted Orleans (the only historically appoint new members who competing values of aca­
higher learning are facing the 
same challenge. None­students, who are designated Black Catholic university) and would better reflect the di­demic freedom, on the one with Clark Atlanta University. versity of graduates relative hand, and protection from
theless, I suggested then and Notre Dame Scholars, and to 
recipients of Holy Cross Faculty and administrators to age, gender, race and harassing speech or conduct,reaffirm now that we must find 
a unique, Notre Dame way to Grants, which are awarded to from the respective insti­ethnicity. This step has on the other, were well minority students based on tutions have visited each already been taken and the balanced in the final doc­
realize this goal. 
One of our first major efforts their academic potential and other's campuses and plans results have been quite ument. The policy exhorts us 
was my proclamation of their proven ability to rise are under way for student fruitful. A similar initiative had all to become more aware of 
1988-89 as the Year of above social or economic exchanges and participation been taken earlier with our rights and responsibilities Cuhural Diversity, the purpose disadvantages. Funding for in Notre Dame's international respect to the Board of relative to discriminatory of which was "to raise the the plan includes $5 million studies programs . Trustees. harassment. 
level of consciousness of all over four years -and as (Ill) In 1991 the Ford Foun­(vi) In 1989 the Black (XI) In 1987, to improve re­
members of the Notre Dame much as $2 million a year dation provided $91,000 in Alumni of Notre Dame tention rates among minority 
funding for a summer faculty
community to the importance thereafter-from the Uni­became an officially students in the College of of minorities in American life versity's Sorin Society; a conference focusing on recognized organization Engineering, the Minority and culture. • The Year of substantial portion of the course revisions designed to under the auspices of the Engineering Program was broaden the cuhural diversity Notre Dame Alumni established, offering free
Cultural Diversity ultimately revenues from the Univer­
included some 75 separate sity's contract with NBC-TV of the curriculum. The confer­Association. The organ­tutorial assistance, peer events ranging from lectures for coverage of home football ence, under the direction of ization is quite active and this advisors to help younger to musical events to panel games from 1991-95; the bulk Professor Erskine Peters, will summer will sponsor its 2nd students through the rough discussions to workshops on of the proceeds from the concentrate initially on the Biennial Reunion. The early years, and career 
diversity to library exhibits to 1990 and 1991 Orange Freshman Writing and establishment and empower­advice from professional mi­group discussions in dorms. Bowls; and $100 million in Seminar Program and the ment of the Black Alumni of nority engineers. Last year 60 One of the more highly new financial aid endowment Sophomore Core Course in Notre Dame is a major step percent of minority freshmen praised of these events was a which the University will the College of Arts and forward since this is one of engineering intents remained 
four-day seminar on "Strength attempt to raise over the next Letters. the more difficult areas of 
Father Malloy's letter 
through Diversity,· conducted ten years. All told, the plan is I might add parenthetically University life in which to by Dr. Badi Foster of the designed to double the that I teach in the Freshman effect rapid change. continues on page 16 
These pages are paid for by the University of Notre Dame. 


Father Malloy describes Notre Dame as a 'community in transition' 
in the program for their sophomore years, versus a previous high return rate of 38 percent. In January of this year the University submitted a proposal to the National Science Foundation seeking funding for a similar program for the College of Science. 
I recount these programs that we have undertaken be­cause they are important of themselves and because they are actions that demonstrate the University's commitment to cultural diversity. I do not cite them to suggest that all is well and nothing more need be done. The reality on our campus today is much more complex than that and in some areas the present situation is simply unsatis­factory. I and others in leader­ship roles in the University have made mistakes, acted too slowly, presumed too much. While the past cannot be relived, it can inform our choices in the present. I have described the positive steps that we have taken; now let me describe where I believe we are and how I propose to proceed from here. 
A. The Present 
Situation 
We are a campus and a University community in transition. By numbers we are now more diverse than we were 5 or 10 years ago, and as I look 1 0 to 20 years into the future, I envision a mix that will be different still, yet with the same spirit. The University, and I personally, have made a conscious commitment to this vision, and there is no pulling back from it. 
The raw figures in 1991 show that the undergraduate population now is 13.1 percent minority overall-S percent Hispanic, 4.5 percent African-American, 3.1 percent Asian, and .5 percent Native American. Our nonfaculty minority employees stand at 14 percent. The percentage of minorities in our core teaching and research faculty is 11.4 percent and in the faculty at all levels, 10.4 percent-6 percent Asian, 3 percent Hispanic and 1.5 per­cent African-American. There is one Native American on the faculty. 
There are many pitfalls in this type of rough analysis. The very term "minority" is a relative one since it presupposes some common standard by Which such judgments are made. Is one a "minority" relative to the national population, relative to the makeup of other institutions of higher edu­cation in this country, or relative to the Notre Dame sampling? 
A further complication is the fact that the terms by which individuals describe them­selves are elusive. Black and African-American are used interchangeably by some while others prefer the phrase People of Color. The same terminological debate goes on with Hispanic/Latina, Native American/Indian, Asian American/a particular nationality of Asian American, and so on. 
Whether one belongs to a majority or a minority, concern things just don't click. A fifth concern arises from about such matters takes for Budding interethnic Notre Dame's Catholic granted that there is friendships remain on hold. identity and mission and the something about race or Teammates, com-mon par­fact that some of our ethnic ethnicity that defines one's ticipants in various student minority students and faculty identity and that affects one's activities, and even high come from other religious interactions, for better or school companions find their backgrounds. This means worse, with members of other lives divided by competing that some of the academic groups. loyalties. Clearly, no one can year's pivotal celebrations 

The problem of minority mandate who a given (Freshman Orientation, Junior status is the heightened individual's friends should be. Parents' Weekend, Com­possibility of prejudicial or But what is intolerable to me mencement, Reunion Week­discriminatory treatment. is allowing peer pressure and end, etc.), during which a Racism is inherently offensive artificial constraints to prevent Mass is a central event, seem and has no place either in a the formation of friendships not to be as welcoming community of scholars or that can bring expansiveness and/or emotionally significant among those professing and beauty to our lives. to faculty, students or parents Christian values. But racism Third, I am concerned with of other faith traditions as can take many forms, some the differences in recognition they are to Catholics. The more subtle than others. and acceptance accorded to same is true of the Sunday Notre Dame as an institution student-athletes from ethnic liturgies in the residence halls is not immune from such minority backgrounds versus and other campus settings. encounters with human that accorded to their ethnic The Report of the Task Force sinfulness and failure. We as peers. Intercollegiate ~thletics on Evangelization reminds us individual members of the are a well-established and of this difference in exper­Notre Dame community can celebrated facet of the Notre ience and offers some acknowledge our faults in this Dame tradition through which recommendations about how regard and seek to effect that thousands of students over to proceed. Notre Dame will most difficult of human the years have gained access continue to cultivate its transformations, a change in to a Notre Dame education. Catholic identity and to serve the deepest reaches of our In recent years, this has its Catholic constituency. But minds and hearts. included an increasing we also must be more 
Let me be specific about number of ethnic minority successful in our pastoral the things that concern me on students. Two problems arise ministry to those of other faith our campus at the present from this situation. The first is traditions. time. the perpetuation of a Other areas of our common 
First, we must dispel once stereotype that if a Notre life are worthy of further re­and for all the notion that eth-Dame student is an ethnic mi­flection with respect to minor­nic minority students are nority, then he or she must be ity concerns-for example, here, as it were, under false an athlete. The second is that motivating our best and pretenses. On the contrary, student-athletes who happen brightest minority students to individually and collectively to be ethnic minorities often go on to graduate school and these students are bright, are lavished with recognition earn Ph.D.s so that we can talented and hard-working. As and acceptance, while the continue to enlarge the pool a teacher I know this from achievements and con­of minority candidates for firsthand experience. There is tributions of ethnic minority future faculty positions. Also, I nothing more dispiriting to students who happen not to believe we can better orient ethnic minority students than be student-athletes often are our research efforts in the to have others suggest that ignored. As a community we academic units to consider affirmative action somehow need to reflect on these more of the social and public breeds mediocrity or lowers problems and as individuals policy questions that have a the quality of work in our we need to consider how we particularly devastating effect classrooms. The proper ourselves may be at fault. on our minority population. answer is that it all depends Fourth, the lack of a There are still further areas (as it does with any other critical mass of ethnic to be addressed, but let these group of students) on minorities in certain areas of few ideas suffice as an indica­background, effort and clarity University life places an tion of the complexity of the of purpose. We have equally additional burden on minority issues we face. Despite the assertive affirmative action faculty, staff or administrators difficulties, I am convinced programs for other appli-to serve on committees, task that the opportunities for cants-for example, the sons forces and other repre­growth and positive and daughters of our alumni, sentative groups. The development her!'! at Notre the sons and daughters of University, I feel, is obligated Dame are even greater. So faculty and staff, etc.-and to constitute these important let me turn to a discussion of no one suggests that these vehicles of advice and the framework through which efforts lpwer our standards. consultation from as broad a I propose to initiate further Notre Dame does not accept cross-section of the com­action. students who cannot make it munity as is possible. Until here, and most have the we raise our overall numbers B. Planning for the ability to do quite well. of ethnic minority faculty and FutUre -Task Force on 
Second, we have a employees, however, some Cultural Diversity difficult time keeping open the will be called to carry a opportunities for formation of disproportionate load. I hope I have established a Task deep and lasting friendships that we can improve our Force on Cultural Diversity to across ethnic lines. No one numbers quickly and thereby be co-chaired by Dr. Roland seems to know exactly why share professional respon-Smith, my executive this is so. Efforts certainly are sibilities more equitably. assistant, and Fr. Richard made In the W a r n e r , 
Freshman r-----------------------. C.S.C., coun-Year to selor to the integrate new president. It students into will be made the com-mon up of no more life of the than 18 mem­residence bers whom, halls. But after wide g r a d u a II y consultation, I individuals will choose make choices, from the and patterns faculty, staff, of behavior administration, develop. In and under-the dining graduate and halls, at social graduate stu­events, and dent bodies, even in the including re-emotionally presentatives distressing from esta­process of blished and 
roommate L--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ recognized
selection, 

These pages are paid for by the University of Notre Dame. 
student groups with special interest in, or ex-perience of this topic. 
The task force will be as­signed to review present efforts at promoting cultural diversity and to make recommendations for future action. Many of the actions taken since 1987 have been the direct outgrowth of the work of a University-wide Committee on Minority Stu­dents chaired by Dr. Nathan Hatch. More recently, the Stu­dent Government report to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees­"The Challenge of Diver­sity"-highlighted from a student perspective con­tinuing areas of concern that cross various areas of University life. The new task force will build on the work of these prior studies and make concrete recommendations for future action. The co­chairs of the task force may consult with appropriate University officers about the constitution of committees within their units to advise the task force on issues pertinent to their areas of responsibility. The task force will have University-wide purview, but it should not replace or interfere with the work of any other committees established to explore similar issues within various units of the University. 
The task force will begin work officially in September 1991 and should consider its work to be of high priority. It will make periodic and regular reports to me. The task force will submit a written interim report to me by January 15, 1992, and a final report by the end of the 1991-92 academic year. The interim and final re­ports will be made available to the University community. 
A Postscript 
I want personally to thank the students who in recent months have held the University accountable for what they perceive to be a lack of progress with regard to cultural diversity. Our conversation has sometimes been publicly contentious, but in private it always has been clear that everyone has had a common set of goals for the University. There are important values at stake, and people of goodwill can disagree on how to proceed. But this con-versation must continue across the various channels of the University. Together we want to make this an inclusive and welcoming place. We want to tap the richness of the diver­sity that we variously bring to the task of learning. We want to be appreciated for who we are, not forced into false assimilation. Let us hope and pray that we can continue to learn from each other to the common good of this place we love so deeply. 

(Rev.) Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 

Monday, April 29, 1991 The Observer page 17 
North Stars, Oilers to meet in conference finals SPIIITS BRIEFS 
•Sports Briefs are accepted, in writing, at The Observer office -Chris Dahlquist's first-ever stunned No. 1 Chicago in the from in front of the net with 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. (AP) finished 16th in the standings, postseason on a backhander 
on the third floor of LaFortune during business hours. All briefs playoff goal snapped a score­first round. 16:10 to go. 
must be in before 5:00 to guarantee next day printing. less game 19 seconds into the Dahlquist, acquired from third period Sunday night, lift­Pittsburgh on Dec. 11, beat Oilers 4, Kings 3 (OT) 
•ND I SMC Sailing awards dinner will be held Tuesday, April Ing the Minnesota North Stars Blues goalie Vincent Riendeau 
30 at 6:45 pm at Lisa Fox's. For more information please call Moira at 283-5224.
Into the Stanley Cup semifinals on a slap shot from the right EDMONTON, Alberta -Craig for the first time since 1984 point after taking a pass from MacTavish scored with 3:03 left with a 3-2 victory over the St. Neal Broten. Riendeau, who al­in overtime Sunday night to Louis Blues. lowed the puck to go between give the Edmonton Oilers a 4-3 
•Students and staff interested in having a climbing wall on campus should come to a short meeting at 7:00 pm on•Wednesday, 
Bobby Smith added two goals his pads, didn't appear to be victory over the Los Angeles 
May 1, at the Non-Varsity Athletics office. Anyone with questions for the North Stars, whose six­screened on the play. Kings in Game 6, advancing the 
should call NVA at 239-6100. game victory made them the defending Stanley Cup champi­
onds after referee Kerry Fraser MacTavish, who whipped thefirst team since the 1980 New Smith, acquired in the ons into the semifinals. 
disallowed an apparent goal by puck past Kelly Hrudey atYork Islanders with playoff vic­offseason from Montreal for a Edmonton's Anatoli Semanov. 16:57. MacTavish scored 17tories over the top two regular­1992 fourth-round draft choice, MacTavish's second goal of Petr Klima skated behind the goals during the regular sea­season clubs. Minnesota, which scored his third goal of this the playoffs came only 11 sec-Los Angeles net and passed to son. 
The Observer accepts dassHieda every business day lrom 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame olllce, 314 LaFortune and lrom 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day daasHieds Is 3p.m. All claasllleds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge Is 2 cents per character per day, lndudlng all spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082 
Resumes ....Professlonal quality 
272-56RJ7. (Tom Williams) 
$$$ for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. 
hours 10-5:30 everyday 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 
corner of ND Ave. & Howard 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award Winning Hole!, has rooms for GraduaUon weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit 1192 Elkhart (12 miles !rom South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd, Elkhart, IN 46514. 
STUDENTS: RUNNING OUT OF 
TIME? 
LASER QUALITY TERM 
PAPERS/REPORTS. QUICK 
TURNAROUND. 
MAIL BOXES 
277-6245. 
TYPING term 
papers/reports/letters/resumes. 
Pick up & delivery available. 277. 
6134 Cathy 
TYPING: Fast and Accurate! 
Call Jannell: Days 255-0022; 
Evenings 684-7507. 
TYPING • CALL COLLEEN 
AT 234-8882 
Lest and Found 
HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! 
I LOST MY CROSS ON 3/2:11N 
GYM 1 OF THE ACC. IT IS A 
SILVER CROSS ON A BLACK 
ROPE. IT HAS GREAT 
SENTIMENTAL VALUE! A REWARD 
IS OFFERED. IF YOU FOUND IT 
PLEASE CALL: 
MIKE AT 1788 
LOST: Two keys (for dorm room and mall slot) on Aghtin' Irish keychain, between SOH and Library, Sunday night. No sentimental value attatched, just a matter of convenience. Reward? Well, If you're cute (and of the FEMALE persuasion) I'll give you a big wet kiss (optional). Thank you much! John x2331 
••··-Lostlllll"--3-4 disks In a 
blue plastic disk case; one says 
'resume junk' on it. PLEASE 
returnIll Reward!! II Call Mark 273· 

9058. 
LOST MONDAY NIGHT ON DEB'S 
21 BIRTHDAY: Bracelet-gold links 
klnd of In shape of hearts about 
quarter Inch wide. Possibly lost In 
library computer lab, CJ's, or 
Commons. (Nice combo, eh?l) 
PLEASE HELP, sentimental 
value....REWARDII CALL 1279. 
Thanks. 
FOUND: Key chaln with Eiffel Tower on bleachers behind Bookstore. Call 2488 to claim. 
FOUND: Single silver earring with black circular Inset. Call 2488 to claim. 
Lost: Brown leather bracelet w/ gold clasp. Mon. 23. Call 
X3950. 
LOST: GOLD HEART WITH AUSTRIAN CRYSTAL ON GOLD CHAIN AROUND ACC. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. CALL 284·5512. 
FOUND: ring by LaFortune call4060 
WANTED 
EARN $300-$500 PER WEEK 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. 
CALL 1·615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. 
Moving to Chicago? Female ND 
grad needs roommate to share 2 
bedroom apartment. Must be a 
non-smoker. If interesled, please 
call Ann at (312) 935·1958. 
KUWAIT, SAUDI WORKERS NEEDED $35.00 & up per hour. Tax Free. Both skilled & unskilled. For Info. Call615-779-5505 Ext. K-541. 
Retail security In store. Store detecUve, experience preferred but not necessary. Training program. Benefits include major medical, life Insurance, vacations, available dental plan, available 401K retirement plan and more. Send background info. with phone It to 
L.P. Manager, 841 S. Kalamazoo Street, Paw Paw, Ml 49079. 
A major retail chain Is accepting applications for a special security posiUon at a local location. This is a fuii-Ume posiUon earning compeUtive hourly rare. No experience necessary. Benefits Include major medical, life insurance, vacations, available dental plan, available 401K retirement plan, and more. To apply, please wrile to: L.P. Manager, 841 
S. Kalamazoo Street, Paw Paw, Ml 49079. Include phone t, address, days available for work, and name of newspaper ad seen ln. 
Need Roomate 
Summer; Year 
$200.00 Mo. 
Call Lena 
lt3517 

WANTED: Need 1 or 2 (prefer 2) people to occupy a Turtle Creek Ap~ for summer. More affordable than a townhOuse. Call Jim or John X1177. 
WAN'FED: USED VAN 
In Decent CondiUon 
Preferably Cheap!II 
Call 283-4206 
Leave name, It, $ 

FOR RENT 
GRAD. WEEKEND 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 

An attractive studio In lovely old 
mansion near N.D. $300 now 
renting for summer &fall 91 call 
2879624 

MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our 
N.D. alumnae family for the most attracUve, well-maintained apartments on Chicago's North side! Hardwd noors, great closet space, lndry faclls., conveniently located to public transp and shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. We'd love to help you out! 
FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN, AIR, PHONE, MICROWAVE, 
UTILITIES PAID, 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 272·0615. 
CONDO for summer rental. Close to NO. 2 bd, furnlshed.Rent nexlblell Call272·5708. 
LARGE HOUSE, 2 BATHS, 4/5 BDRMS. $700. 282·1014. 
4·7 Bed. Houses Avail. for 91-92 Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone 232· 1776. 
House with indiv. Rooms avail. 
91·92 Yr. Shared Living areas. 
Reas. Rates. Phone 232·1776. 
Bed and Breakfast for graduation. A private bedroom and bath in lovely private home within 12 mins. of campus. Call 272-5989 
SUMMER SUBLETTOR NEEDED 
Turtle Creek Apts, 2 bdrm 
sublet from June-Aug. 
Callx3828 
FURN 2-BDRM APT, SUMMER, 
UNIV VILLAGE, $195/MO 
271·8622 
3 Bedroom House 
Close To Campus 
$555 Mo. + Dep. 
232-3616 
Roommate for June 1 • Female nonsmoker. Runaway Bay, 2 bdrm, 2 full bath, wash/dry In apt., fireplace, 110 Lakeview, furnished. $295/mth. No deposit. Stephanie (H) 259·9939. (W) 232·3992 Ext. 8253. 
House for Rent $170/Mon Call 287-2159 Paul 
2 BDRM. TOWNHOUSE, TURTLE CREEK, AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER SUBLET JUNE 1. CALL ERICA 283­4768 OR MONIOUE 283-4717. 
Room Available In a save & historic area. Full house priv. Washer & Dryer included. 1mi. from N.D. $220/mnth. Phone 287-7928 
Sub-leasing apartment at Castle Point this summer. If interested, please call 2712. Ask for KARL!! 
Quaint furnished apts. 
near N.D. for summer-1bedrm 
$260; summer & fall-effeciency 
$225; fall·2 bedrm $360; deposit, 
references 1-8()()..582·9320 
Need female roommates for Fall 
and Spring semesters at Turtle 
Creek. 
Amanda, 271·1995 
Fl!rnished Summer Apt 
2 bed. Call 273-1747 
CASTl.E POINT 2 bdrm apt-rent for summer 273-1340 
Turtle Creek Aprt for summer. I 
won't try and dazzle you with a big 
"CHEAP!! IIII" sig1. Oh, I guess I 
just did. Chris 273-9355 
Turtle Creek Aprt for summer. I 
won't try and dazzle you with a big 
"CHEAP! IIIII" sign. Oh, I guess I 
just did. Chris 273-9355 
Turtle Crook Aprt for summer. I 
won't try and dazzle you with a big 
"CHEAPIIII!I" sign. Oh, I guess I 
just did. Chris 273-9355 
STUDIO APARTMENTS 
1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS $250·285 CALL 2888595 
FOR SALE 
ND PARENTS: THE ANSWER TO YOUR STUDENrS HOUSING COSTS • HOUSE W/2 APTS. GOOD CONDITION, CLOSE TO NO. LErS EXPLORE POSSIBILITIES. 289­8720 (8-3PM) 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Buying a car? Good rales. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00,289-1993. Office near campus. 
FOR SALE: 
EVERYTHING MUST GO 
1Sola 
1Window Seat (FI & Gr) 
2 Carpets (12x10, 12x13) 
1 6 foot ladder 
1small Refrigerator 
CaiiX1583 
For Sale: 82 VW Rabbit 
Great condiUon, 1OOk miles 
was$950-now negotiable 
Must sell Jeff@ 1786 
89 GEO Spectrum 
Great Gas Mileage­
45/city 50/highway 
SUI! has factory warranty 
excellent buy, call Pat 
288-5678 
87 Saab 900 Turbo, red, sunroof, 
auto, 3-dr,low miles,$11,250, Ph 
277-8898 

Single Bed for Sale. One Year Old. Price Is NegoUable. Please Call 2805 
1979 DATSUN 210, $450, 80 K 
MLS. CALL LIZ 271·1893 
Fridge: $60 Call Heather: 
284·5062 
TICKETS 
Need at least one and up to 
three grad Ux. Please call 
Scott @ 258-4324 
Help! Grandparents need two 2 grad. Ux. Call Jon x1847 
1-way Ucket: S.Bend to LAX, 
5/12/91. Cheap! Staph x3536 
Need 2 GRADUATION TICKETS 
for grandmothers' 1sVonly 
trips to NO. $$1! Call Tom 
3698 or 3697/recorder. 
PERSONALS 

HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUMMER? Jet there with AIRHITCH (r) lor $229 from the Midwest, $160 from the East Coast. (As reported In NY Times and Let's Go!) AIRHITCH (r) 212·864·2000 
I got it. 
Come. And be my baby. 
Tired of paying high taxi fares? Don't want to wait an hour lor a taxi to arrive? I'm sticking around 'til Sunday and can give rides to the airporVtraln/bus staUon the weekend afler finals for just $5. Call Rene at 277·9468 to reserve a spot. 

SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $315 each way on discounted scheduled airlines to Europe from Chicago. Call (800) 325-2026. 
MOVING TO CHICAGO at the end of the summer and I am looking for a female non-smoker roommate to share an apartment in the Lincoln Park/North Side area. Please call Gina X4853. 
The Copy Shop LaFortune Student Cenler Is ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS for 1991·92 employment. Stop In and apply today!! I 
U.P.S. U.P.S. U.P.S. On Campus 
Watch for coupons In your dorm! 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 239-6714 

SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE 
FOR SALE: 

Avoid paying high rentals. Buy my 
3 year old, dorm size FRIDGE for 
only $50 and own it for next year. 
Call Scott at X1650. 

SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE 
Happy Birthday Joe Roberts. We 
love you. 

See Steven Spielberg's great film, "The Color Purple", tonight in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:30. $2. 50. 
MOVING OFF CAMPUS? 
NEED ABED? 

DOUBLE BED FOR SALE·VERY 
COMFORTABLE-LESS THAN A 
YEAR OLD. CALL ANNE AT 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE 288-0597 
AttenUon Joseph & David: If the way you manage a sofUball team Is any Indication of how you'll manage your cabinet next year, ND Is In deep doo-dool The Big 0 rules! I! I 
ADOPTION • HAPPILY MARRIED PROFESSIONAL COUPLE WISH TO ADOPT A BABY TO LOVE. WE ARE SENSITIVE TO BIRTH PARENT'S CONCERNS ABOUT ADOPTION AND OPEN OPTIONS. CALL COLLECT 616-247~936. 
• A Toast to Dumpy • 
The smell of my breath 
In the morning 
makes your hair stand on end; 
Ev'ry day you search 
for the personals I never send; 
Yet through all of this, 
you still remain my friend. 
Here's to us 

together 'WI the end. 
Love, The Icky Boy 
!!!II JUNIORS, JUNIORS!!II! 
SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND DISK TO CAREER AND 
PLACEMENTSE~CESFOR 
RESUME BOOKS NOW. 
DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 
1!!!1 JUNIORS, JUNIORS!! Ill 
SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND DISK TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW! DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 
Ill!! JUNIORS, JUNIORSIIIII 
SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND 
DISK TO CAREER AAD 
PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR 
RESUME BOOKS NOW. 
DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 10! 
I!!!! JUNIORS, JUNIORS! II II 
SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND 
DISK TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW! DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 
John O'Brien-Sorry you didn't win UMOC, don't worry-you'll always be UMOC to me. Especially when you're In your tighty Garfields. 
To Joe Pat's secret friend: I thought you'd like getting a classified so here you are. Thanks for a great weekend. 
Guess who? 
M., 
Such a mystery you are. Your 
identity baffles me. Thank you for 
the beauUiul words, the Hower, and 
for making me smile. S.T. 
SHANNON KAY: 
I miss you lots and I love you very 
much. Good luck on your tests. 
Dad 
The 1991 Ugly Man on Campus is: FATHER MIKE SULLIVAN Runners up include: Judy Hutchinson Sean Murdock 
J.T. Burke Rick Wilson Mark Manning John O'Brien "**Thanks to all the contributors. Over $200 was raised for the Logan Center and Women's Shelter. 
The "Sixth Man" salutes the Gauchos: Rob, Dave, Mike, Tom and Pete You guys are the best! 
·-HEY DIANE••• CONGRATULATIONS! I TOLD YOU YOU COULD DO IT:) OH, AND HAPPY BIRTHDAY TOO. 
SEAN 
FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY 
CALLING VANESSA 272·9306. 
SENIORS..... SENIORS....SENIORS 
Career & Placement Services will be set up In the Hesburgh Library Concourse on TUESDAY, MAY 7TH and WEDNESDAY, MAY 8TH to collect our "Future Plans/Job Offer..• forms that we sent to you earlier this spring. We will be In the concourse from 
1:00 • 2:00 each day and will have plenty of blank forms. PLEASE.. BEFORE YOU GO... TELL US WHERE YOU'RE GOINGII 
SENIORS... SENIORS...SENIORS.... 
LIMPY & HARVEY'S QUOTE 
BOARD: "The biggest danger In 
staying up all night Is forgetting to 
change your underwear." 
SHIP GREYHOUND, PREPAID OR 
COLLECT. BOXES PLUS 
LOCATIONS ON CAMPUS. 
287·6041 
Now that the big test day is over, 
there will be no acceptable 
excuses for poor job performance. 
If you need to be reminded of your 
job responslbi!Ues, my olftee Is at 
the top of the stairs. 
Carrie: 
Had a great time at Senior Bar 
Thursday night. Your the best 
dance partner I ever had. Maybe 
this week they will play some 
AC!DC -See Ya there! 
H.S. 
Dutch· I don't have any1hing original to say, so 1'111 just say have a great day. Thank Michelle for pu!Ung this ln. 
-Jacquie 
James R. Partridge turned 21 
yesterday! II 
Wish him a Happy Birthday today If you see him and !ell him what he was "up" to when you saw him at the Commons-he's having a hard Ume remembering on his own! 
Happy 21st 'Cheese! 
'Cheese... A fabulous babe asked you if you wanted to get a pizza and... and you really told her you don't like plzza..-whatcha thlnkin'? 

---~-~-~--~-------~--­
page 18 
BOOKSTORE BOXES 
Men's Final: 
Adworka (21) 
FG-FGA Reb Derrick Johnson 8--14 4 Bryant Dabney 1-4 2 Marton Crook 3-5 . 1 Tim Singleton 4-9 3 Dorsey Levens 5-9 1 
Tequila White Ughtnlng (15) 
FG-FGA Reb Mke MacKinnon 3---e 0 Shannon Cullinan D-5 4 Eric Jones 4-10 3 Jim Dolan 3-13 7 Bubba Cunningham 1>--11 2 
Halftime acora: 11-10, Adworks 
Women's Final: 
CJ'e Pub (21) 
FG-FGA Reb Karan Robinson 7-15 3 Mia Tettenborn 3---e 4 T aryn Collins 2-5 3 Jan Slosar 1--Q 8 Kathleen Weber 8--18 5 
Hooaler Lewyera (17) FG-FGA Reb Kathy Barron 7-17 6 
Kathy Leyden 7~ 10 
Deb Kashul 1-12 3 
Catherina O'Hearn 2-2 4 
Nancy Eagan D-4 7 
Halftime ecora: 11~. CJ's Pub 
Tournament IIVP: Karan Robinson Mlee Bookatora: Kathy Barron 
SPORTS SHORTS 
Brooks wins In sudden death 
• GREENSBORO, N.C. -Mark Brooks had 10 birdies and two bogeys to charge to the front of the pack at the Greater Greensboro Open on Sunday, but he needed a nearly routine par before he could enjoy his work. Brooks beat Gene Sauers on the third hole of sudden death to take the $225,000 first-place money_ The two ended the tournament at 13-under 275, with Brooks turning in an 8-umler 64 on the wann, muggy day at Forest Oaks Country Club. 
Kessler found after two-day search 
• MIAMI -Miami Heat forward Alec Kessler turned up safe and sound Sunday night after his failure to check in with family during a boating trip in the Bahamas prompted a two-day search by the Coast Guard. Kessler's fiancee, Rhea Harrelson, notified the Coast Guard at about 8:30 p.m. EDT Sunday that Kessler had fmally called her on a cellular phone to say he was in the Abaco Islands and in no danger, a spokesman said. Kessler, 24, and two friends had left the Miami area Thursday afternoon, heading for the Bimini Islands about 100 miles to the east, after loading camping gear on' Kessler's 33-foot speed boa~ at Baker's Haulover Marina. The Coast Guard launched an aenal search that eventually covered 28,000 square miles of Atlantic Ocean after Harrelson called late Friday to report that she had not heard from Kessler as she had expected_ 
, ~ 
Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics University of Cincinnati 
Attention Engineering luniors! 
A Summer Research Program, sponsored by the 
National Science Foundation, is open to juniors in 
engineering and related sciences. Stipends for 
participation are $2,400 for 10 weeks, plus $600 for 
living expenses. 
Research Prozxam Activities are focused on participation in individual projects. Students will work closely with faculty and contribute to ongoing research in 
Experimental Fluid Mechanics, Computatio114l Fluid Mechanics, Structural Mechanics, Guidsznce and Control, Propulsion Systems, and Biomechanics. 
Application Applicants must: be American citizens or permanent residents; have at least a B average; and be at or near the end of their junior year. Awards will be made to qualified applicants on a first come basis. Call today for application materials: 
1-800-488-6756 
or clip this add  SREU Program  
and send to:  Department of Aerospace  
Engineering and Engineering Mechanics  
University of Cincinnati  

Cincinnati, OH 45221-0070 Name:.______ Phone: __________ Address:_____·-----------=~----­
School/Major:.________ CPA:.___ Summer Research Experience for Undergraduates """ 

---~---------------~-----------. 
SCOREBOARD 
Monday, April 29, 1991 

TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American L..gue 
KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Placed Kevin Settzer, third baseman, on the 15-day disabled list. Purchased the contract of Paul Zuvella. Infielder, from Omaha of the American Association. 
OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Acli"ated Rickey Henderson, outfielder, from the 15 day disabled list. Optioned· Scott Hemond, third baseman, to Tacoma of the Paclllc Coast League. 
TEXAS RANGERS-Signed Dan Boone, pitcher, to a minor-league contract. Sent Gary Green and Denny Walling, Infielders, to Oklahoma City of the American Association for medical rehabilitation. 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Placed Rance MuUinlks, designated hiller, on the 15-day disabled llat. Purchased the contract of Kenny Williams, out­fielder, from Syracuse of the International League. National L..gue 
ATLANTA BRAVES-Placed Tommy Gregg, out­fielder, on the 15-day disabled list. Activated Lonnie Smkh, outfielder, from the 1 5-day disabled list. 
NEW YORK METS-Named DaUas Green special assignment scout. 
SAN DIEGO PADRES-Placed Greg Harrla, pitcher, on the 15-day disabled llat, retroadlve to April23. Recalled Derek LUIIqulst, pitcher, from Las Vegas of the Pacific Coast League. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Sent Trevor Wilson, pitcher, to Phoenix of the Pacific Coast League. Assigned Rick Parlier, outfielder. to Phoenix for In­jury rehablntatlon. 
FOOTBALL National Footb~l League CINCINNATI BENGALS-Signed David Grant, defensive and. DALLAS COWBOYS-Announced that Mike Sullivan, offensive lineman, failed hla physical. INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Signed Chrla Conlin, offensive Hneman, and Orson Mobley, tight end. 
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Signed Reggie Claril and Brian Ryder, linebackers; Ben Crimm and Bob Stephens, offensive linemen; Sean
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Foster, Brian Wiggins and Reggie McGee, wide re­ceivers; and Rob Thomson, salety. AHTIIIliiiiEDT ARST ROUND (Best-of-5) Saturday, April 27 AMERICAN LEAGUE Golden State 111, San Antonio 98, sarles tied 1-Eeet Dlvlalon 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 1 w L Pet. GB 
Eaat Dlvlalon LA Lakers 109, Houston 98, Los Angeles. leads Toronto 12 8 .600 w L Pet-GB series 2-0 Boston 10 7 .598 112 Pittsburgh 13 6 .664 Phoenix 102, Utah 92, series tied 1-1 Milwaukee 9 9 .500 2 New York 11 8 .579 2 Philadelphia 116, Milwaukee 112, OT, Detron 8 g .471 2112 St. Louis 11 8 .579 2 Philadelphia leads series 2-0 Cleveland 7 9 .438 3 Chicago 9 11 .450 4112 Sunday, April 28 Balli mora 6 10 .375 4 Philadelphia 7 12 .368 6 Indiana t 30, Boston 118, series tied 1-1 New York 6 10 .375 4 Montreal 6 13 .333 7 Chicago 89, New York 7g, Chicago leads series Weet Dlvlelon Weat Divlelon 2-0 w L Pet_ GB w L Pet. GB Detroit 101, Atlanta 98, sarles tied 1-1 Chicago 11 5 .698 San Diego 11 8 .579 
Portland 115, Seattle 106, Portland leads series Oakland 12 7 .632 112 Cincinnati 10 8 .556 112 2-0 California 9 10 .474 3112 Los Angeles 10 9 .526 1 Tueeday, April 30 Minnesota 9 10 .474 3112 Atlanta 8 8 .500 1 112 
Detroit ar Atlanta. 7:30 p.m. Kansa&City 8 9 .471 3112 Houston 8 10 .444 2112 Chicago at New York, 7:30p.m. Texas 7 8 .467 3112 San Francisco 8 11 .421 3 Milwaukee at Philadelphia. 7:30 p.m. Seattle 8 11 .421 4112 Sunday'• Gamea LA Lakera at Houston, 8 p.m. Sunday'• Gamaa Philadelphia 9, San Dlego 2 Portland at Seattle, 10 p.m. Balllmore 5, Milwaukee 4 Pittsburgh 7, New York 3 Phoenix at Utah, 10:30 p.m. Toronto 9, Detroit 6 Cincinnati 4, Chicago 3 
Wadnaeday, May 1 Minnesota 8, Seattle 2 Montreal 9, St. Louis 6 Boston at Indiana. 8 p.m. Chicago 4, New York 1 Houston 2, Atlanta 0 San Antonio at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Cleveland 4, Texas 2 Los Angeles 7, San Francisco 3 
Thuraday, May 2 Oakland 7, California 3 Monday'• Game• Detroit ar Atlanta, 8 p.m., Hnecessary Boston 2, Kansas Chy 1 San Diego (Whitson 1-2) at Philadelphia LA Lakera at Houston, 8 p.m., Hnecessary Monday'• Gamaa (Mulholland 1-2), 7:35 p.m. 
Chicago at New York, 8 p.m., Hnecessary Seattle (Delucia 1-2) at Ballimore (D.Johnson 1-Atlanta (Smoltz 0-3) at St. Louis (Tewksbury 2­
Milwaukee at Philadelphia, 8 p.m., Hnecessary 2), 7:35p.m. 1 ), 8:35 p_m. Portland at Seattle, TBA, Hnecessary Detroit (Petry 0-1) at Kansas City (Saberhagen Only games scheduled Phoenix at Utah, TBA 1-2), 8:35p.m. 
Friday, May 3 Only games scheduled Boston at Indiana. 8 p_m. San Antonio at Golden Slate, TBA 
MONEY NOW, PAY LATER 
Graduates, we have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 

NEW AUTO· 9.75°/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your first year as part of this special offer. QUICK CASH· 13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this loan, you simply write a check! 


RELOCATION· 9.1 o/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to repay. You must also have our Mastercard and line-of-credit. 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Separata lrom !he lMivMIIy 
Monday, April29, 1991 The Observer page 19 
Henderson ties all-time stolen base record as A's win 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) ­Rickey Henderson tied Lou Brock's all-time record of 938 stolen bases Sunday, stealing second base after being foiled In four previous attempts as Oakland beat California 7-3. 
Henderson matched Brock's mark when he stole In the sixth Inning on a 1-2 pitch from Angels reliever JefT Robinson. Henderson used his trademark head-first slide to beat catcher Lance Parrish's high throw. 
Dave Stewart (2-2) snapped a two-game losing streak by pitching seven strong Innings, and Jose Canseco went 3-for-4 with three RBis as the A's com­pleted a three-game sweep of the Angels. Oakland has beaten California six times in seven games this season. 
Twins 8, Mariners 2 
MINNEAPOLIS -Jack Morris won his 200th career game and the Minnesota Twins extended their winning streak to five, beating Seattle for the Mariners' fifth straight loss. 
Morris (2-3) became the 89th pitcher to reach 200 victories. The only active pitchers with more wins are Nolan Ryan (304), Bert Blyleven (279), Rick Reuschel (214) and Frank Tanana (208). 
Blue Jays 9, Tigers 6 
TORONTO -Devon White's two-run single put Toronto ahead in the sixth Inning, ending Detroit bullpen's score­less streak at 36 2-3 innings and leading the Blue Jays over the Tigers. 
Orioles 5, Brewers 4 
BALTIMORE -Craig Wor­thington singled home the tie­breaking run in the eighth inning and Bob Milacki pitched 5 1-3 innings of one-hit relief as the Baltimore Orioles rallied to beat the Milwaukee Brewers. 
White Sox 4, Yankees 1 
CHICAGO -Frank Thomas homered and drove in two runs, leading Jack McDowell (4-1) gave up one run on five hits in 7 2-3 innings as the Chicago White Sox beat the New York Yankees 
Indians 4, Rangers 2 
ARLINGTON, Texas -Eric King pitched eight strong innings before needing help from Doug Jones and the Cleveland Indians beat the Texas Rangers in a game de­layed at the start by rain for two hours and 19 minutes. 

Astros 2, Braves 0 
HOUSTON-Casey Can­daele hit a two-run double in the seventh Inning and also tripled Sunday as Houston notched their third victory in nine games. 
Phlllles 9, Padres 2 
PHILADELPHIA -The Phillies pulled ofT the first triple play in the 20-year history of Veterans Stadium and Charlie Hayes hit a three-run homer in a five-run first inning. 
Jason Grimsley (1-3) allowed three hits in seven innings, struck out seven and walked six. Tommy Greene finished with hitless relief. 
Pirates 7, Mets 3 
NEW YORK -Barry Bonds stole home and drove in three runs with a pair of singles as Pittsburgh knocked out Ron Darling (2-1) with seven runs and seven hits in 1 1-3 innings. 
John Smiley (4-0) allowed three runs and six hits in five­plus innings as he increased his career record against New York to 9-3. 
Reds 4, Cubs 3 
CINCINNATI -Paul O'Neill 
Cox returns to majors after three-year absence 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -The Philadelphia Phillies were look­ing for some help and they got it from an unlikely source ­Danny Cox. 
Cox hadn't pitched a major league game for almost three years before starting for the Phillles on Saturday night. The right-hander allowed one run on three hits in seven innings of a 4-3, 12-innlng victory over the San Diego Padres. 
"I always thought I'd make it back to the major leagues. I 
A Channel Volunteer Program representative will be at the Center for Social Concerns on Monday and Tuesday, April29-30, 1:00-5:00pm to answer your questions about volunteering next fall in the Pacific Northwest. Undergrads interested in these programs in the future are also welcome. 

hit his third homer in three eighth-inning tie and went 4­games and rookie Chris for-5 with five RBis as Montreal Hammond (3-0) gave up one ended a seven-game losing run and six hits in seven in­streak. nings before Rob Dibble re­lieved for his fourth save. Dodgers 7, Giants 3 
LOS ANGELES -Kevin Gross Expos 9, Cardinals 6 (1-3) got his first victory for the 
ST. LOUIS -Marquis Dodgers, striking out nine, Grissom hit a grand slam off walking none and allowing four Juan Agosto to break an hits in six innings. 
never stopped thinking that," Cox said. "I know there's still a long way to go, but this was a first great step." 
Cox, who underwent a liga­ment transplant in his right el­bow in March 1989, last pitched on Aug. 6, 1988, when he was with the St. Louis Cardinals. That's when the 31­year-old injured his elbow. He missed the rest of the '88 sea­son and all of 1989. In 1990, he 
pitched  23  innings  in  the  
Cardinals'  minor  league  
system.  

Signed by the Phillies as a free agent last October, Cox was promoted from Clearwater of the Florida State League last Tuesday, the day Jim Fregosi replaced Nick Leyva as the Phillies manager. 
"This is a special time for me to see Danny Cox doing so well after all he's gone through," said Fregosl, who managed the Triple A Louisville when Cox pitched there in 1983-84. "He's worked so hard to come back, so its great to see him perform like this. 
From a career-best 18-9 year In 1985 with Cardinals, Cox fell to 12-13 in 1986 and went 11-9 in 1987. He was 3-8 in '88 be­fore the Cards sent him to Louisville. The Cardinals lost the World Series in 1985 and '87. 
"I really worked and never gave up," Cox said. "I know how much fun it is to play this game and how much fun I can still have and I thank the good Lord I'm still here." 
COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSiDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
C~C(jll!V11l!V':h $fJII(]JrJttl$ 
*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's6.. 
1671 Riverside Drive 
B 

~':tl--2212 
~)>KT ERN SHIP S 
(FALL BREAK '91) 
We're looking for some good students. Find out more about the program at an information session held on Monday, April29, at 6:00 in room 122 Hayes-Healy. 
-----Sponsored by ----­
S.A.R.G. (Student Alumni Relations Group) and the Notre Dame Alumni Association Applications are available in Room 201 Main Building. 

A peek into the secret life of 
Glenn "Creepyli.ngers" Cassidy 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY GLENN! 
page 20 The Observer Monday, April 29, 1991 
Johnson's Bookstore career comes to fitting conclusion Bookstore Basketball XX couldn't have •.,----.......... had a more appropriate ending-senior Derrick Johnson, after playing in four f consecutive Final Fours of the world's · largest five-on-five amateur tournament, slammed home his first Bookstore Championship and minutes later captured the Bookstore MVP title. On a team which many people thought had too many stars and not enough DAVEchemistry, Johnson's play throughout McMAHONBookstore could be considered even close Associate Sportsto selfiSh. EditorAdworks used an isolation game plan, a Ia Bennett and the Irish, MJ and the Bulls, or Barkley and the Sixers, that allowed the hot shooter the opportunity to either take his defender one-on-one or dish it off if the shot wasn't available. More often than not, Johnson, who connected on 8-of-14 shooting in Sunday's final against Tequila White Lightning, succeeded regardless of which opportunity he chose. From a minimum range of 25 feet, Johnson would take, and make, the outside shot, but he didn't take shots that weren't available. Instead, DJ, as he has become known on campus basketball courts, glided his way through traffic and looked for the open man. Showtime came for the crowd from Johnson on the boards, though, as he seemed to take a break and hang out around the rim on many occasions before snagging the rebound. "There were a couple of times when I think he came down wet from getting up so high" said junior Sean McLaren, who faced DJ and Adworks in the Round of 32. While Johnson took Adworks to last year's Final Four, only to lose 21-19 to Joe Scott and Malicious Prosecution, his final trip to Stepan Five showcased his talent against another powerful squad. "Derrick's probably the finest non-football or basketball player I've ever seen in Bookstore," said Tequila White Lightning's Bubba Cunningham, a ten-year Bookstore veteran who just finished what will almost assuredly be his last Bookstore tournament. After three years of watching one of the most dominant play­ers in Bookstore history, most fans have considered Johnson capable of playing on the NCAA Division I level. With Johnson gliding through the lane comes the knee brace that has become a part of his game. A chipped bone in his knee began hindering Johnson shortly after high school, but despite the injury, DJ was offered the chance to play basketball at the Air Force Academy and Penn State. A full time commitment to basketball would have probably weakened his knee even more. "I really didn't want to play varsity ball in college, but now I regret it sometimes," said Johnson, who shot 9-of-14 in the finals of Bookstore XIX. At least two other coaches regret his decision also, but Bookstore Basketball spectators couldn't be more pleased. Few other players at Notre Dame provide the basketball fan with as much excitement as DJ who, after a phenomenal Bookstore career, finally reached the pinnacle of Bookstore success-a championship and the MVP award.  
We're Fighting For Your Life. t.American Heart~ Association~  
Some employers promise -you the world We offer you achance to make the world better Have you considered THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385  


Adworks 
continued from page 24 
Tequila, meanwhile, had an easier time of it in the semifi­nals. The top seed took on up­start Senior Bar, which had knocked off no. 4 Gauchos and no. 5 Gina's Pizza on its road to the Final Four. 
Tequila took charge early, however, stopping Senior Bar's top player, Rob Graham, and never giving the underdogs an opportunity to get untracked in cruising to a 21-11 win. 
"We were just happy to make the Sweet Sixteen, and each game after that was just icing on the cake," Graham said. 
And so after three weeks and 668 games, it came down to number one vs. number two for the title. 
The frrst half of the champi­onship game was evenly played. Adworks pulled out to an early 6-3 lead, but Tequila battled back to tie the game at eight. Marlon Crook's free­throw line jumper gave the All­Stars a slim 11-10 halftime advantage. 
Notre Dame ticket manager Bubba Cunningham kept Tequila in the game in the frrst half. With Eric Jones and Jim Dolan having their difficulties inside, Cunningham nailed five­of-nine outside jumpers to keep them close. 
In the second half, however, Adworks kept a watchful eye on Cunningham, not giving him nearly as much room to get his shot off. His inability to get the open shot cost Tequila as Adworks pulled away. 
"I think we got tired. That's the biggest thing that hurt us," Cunningham said. "They're a good team, and they played better than we did in the second half." 
Another factor leading to Adworks' victory was its ability to keep Tequila off the boards and to get out on the fast break. Adworks is dynamite in the open court, and Dorsey Levens' dunk over Dolan to make the score 15-12 was the spark necessary for it to ex­plode. 
"We were getting the shots, but a few of them wouldn't fall for us," MacKinnon said. "We 
: 

1635 N. Ironwood North of McDonald's 
Professional Vision 
Dr. Ronald Snyder and Associates 
277-1161 

NEW GOVERNMENT CLASSES OFFERED 
Comparative Government: Govt. 342, Sec. 02 #3420 MW 9:30 -10:45 
USSR Government and Politics: Govt. 447, Sec. 02 #3423 MWF 2:20-3:10 
American Government: Govt. 340, Sec. 03 #3425 MWF 12:15-1:05 
Monday, April 29, 1991 The Observer page 21 
Lacrosse moves one step closer to NCAA bid 
By DAVE McMAHON 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame lacrosse ad­vanced one step closer to an NCAA bid with an 11-7 road win Saturday over Ohio State. 
Down 5-4 with just over two minutes before the half, the Irish (7-6) exploded for seven unanswered goals In their best second-half performance of the season. 
While the Irish have played well In the first half on many occasions, Saturday's game featured the most complete game of the year for the squad. 
"We're playing our best lacrosse of the season right now," said Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan. 
Mldflelder John Capano broke the Irish career record for ground balls, a feat that is not surprising considering the senior's attitude towards the game. 
"John has been consistently the hardest working guy on the team In the three years that I've been here," said Corrigan. "A big part of getting ground balls comes from being tough and hustling-two characteristics that personify who John is and what he means to the team." 
For Capano, a member of the Irish 1980 All-Decade team, the feat is another accomplished goal. 
"It's something I've been shooing for all season," said Capano. 
Face-off man Chip Lonsdale played one of his better games of the year, as the Irish con­trolled close to half of the face­offs. While Lonsdale did win the face-offs, he kept his Buckeye opponent at bay and allowed wingmen Pete Gillin, Brian Mayglothllng, and Capano to begin the Irish of­fensive threat. 
"We didn't concede right off the face-off," said Lonsdale. "The ground balls allowed us play more on the offensive side than we have been." 
After a 2-0 Ohio State lead, junior attackman Brian Schirf scored two straight goals with both assists from Mike Sullivan. The Buckeyes and Irish exchanged goals until the :08 mark of the second quarter, when Sullivan tied the score at 5-5. 
With the season and NCAA bid essentially on the line, the Irish came out on a mission and uncharacteristically cranked out four third-quarter goals in the first seven minutes of the quarter. 
"We gave up some goals in the first half that we knew we shouldn't have," said senior de­fenseman Eamon McAnaney. "It was just a matter of who wanted it more in the second half. We communicated well in the second half and played tough defense, which eventually took the wind out of their sails." 
While sophomore Pat Finn started the game in goal, Chris Parent took over in the second half, allowing only two shots past him. 
"We outplayed them in the first half and had nothing to show for it," said Corrigan. "Parent not only gained confi­dence in himself, but he boosted our whole defense." 
Offensively, the Irish played with patience against a zone defense, a factor which con­tributed to a balanced scoring effort by seven Irish players. 
"We moved the ball well against their zone, and anytime you're patient against a zone you're gonna have a lot of peo­ple with opportunities to score," said Corrigan. 
Sullivan led the Irish with three goals and four assists. Schirf, Mayglothllng, and senior Mike Sennet each had two eoals in the Irish win. 
You CAn sa~ many
things aboutMacintosh. 

You can talk about how simple the Apple• Macintosh• computer is to use. Or how it can think the way you think. Or how compatible it is with other computers. 
But think again when the word "expensive" comes to mind. Because it's just not true any more. 
Introducing the Macintosh Classic• computer. It's the most affordable Macintosh, yet it has all the capabilities you need to handle basic applications, such as analysis. The Classic is acompletely integrated Macintosh system. Its monitor, keyboard, mouse and system software are all included, as are extras you might not expect---.such as built-in networking and the Apple SuperDrive~disk drive, which lets the Classic read from and write to MS-OOS, OS/2, and ProDos•ftles. 
Stop in today. We'll show you how it's possible for nearly anyone to afford a Macintosh. Comfortably. 
word processing and spreadsheet NOTUE DA:\JE COl\IPUTEH STORE 
Ofrirc of University Computing Computing CcnterfMath Building 
Phone: 239-7477 
Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 "5:00 C1910 ....... C.O.,..,Io<. --""*....~....,.__._..,.......,._d..,.,..'-,lo<.~lll ........--11>
.......C.O.,...Io<."ilsool~-, ........-d-c..-I&'ZIII......-d--llodiba~ 
Offense 
continued from page 24 
Levens ran seven times for 18 yards and three touchdowns. 
Junior quarterback Rick Mirer continued his impressive play, completing 11 of 15 passes for 17 4 yards and one TD. Senior Derek Brown was utilized more often than usual as a receiver, catching five passes for 80 yards. 
"I don't think Derek has im­proved. He was good to start with. We're just getting him the ball a little more," said Mirer. 
While the high scoring of the game seems like it would reflect poorly on the defense, it was handicapped by playing only a basic defense, without blitzes. 
"Let's not get overexagger­ated on what happened," said Holtz. "We played a very, very basic defense. 
"Boo (Williams) and (Demetrius) DuBose are going to have to be leaders (of the de­fense) ... the secondary made some good plays," continued Holtz. 
Holtz singled out DuBose for his fine play on defense, total­ing 10 tackles, seven of which were unassisted. Three other players-sophomores LeShane Saddler, Jeff Burris and Anthony Peterson-each had eight tackles. 
Holtz even jokingly addressed the open Irish basketball posi­tion: "I coached basketball when I did my student teaching. I thought I was a pretty good basketball coach. My players had a good time, and everyone graduated. 
"Digger taught me a lot about Notre Dame. I'm happy he's happy." 
But overall, the la.c;ting feeling from Saturday's game has to be the spirit of togetherness the Irish are demonstrating. The last time the Irish has this feel­ing, they won a national cham­pionship. The goals for this year are just as lofty. 
"We have got to win the na­tional championship," said Brown. 
Notes: The only serious injury of the game was suffered by de­fensive lineman Todd Stoker, who injured his knee. Holtz said that he will probably undergo surgery on that knee today... The Irish captains will be named on May 1, when the athletic board will meet to approve the captains. 
CJ's 
continued from page 24 
the break, and with one of the quickest guards in the country in Karen, it got us going." 
But the Lawyers' didn't panic. Barron hit a jumper, and after another CJ's basket, Leyden broke out of an 0-for-10 slump with a short bank shot to spark a 6-1 run to cut the lead to 15­13. 
"(Their run) didn't worry us because we're used to coming from behind," Barron said. "We knew that we had been in long, close games and they hadn't." 
If CJ's hadn't been tested during the tournament, how­ever, they didn't show it down the stretch yesterday. Robinson drove the lane for a lay-up and Weber hit a long jumper from the left wing to build the lead back to four. 
Barron responded with a 15­foot jumper of her own, and then Leyden hit a free throw to close the margin to 17-15. 
But Weber nailed another 20­footer from the left side, Robinson hit a free throw, and Weber cut to the basket and re­ceived a nice pass through traf­fic from Mia Tettenborn for an easy lay-up to get to game point. 
Still, Hoosier Lawyers' re­fused to die. Barron-who ended up with seven points-buried an eight-foot running bank shot and another jumper from the free-throw line to get within three, 20-17. 
"We were shooting the ball too soon at the end," Weber said. "We just had to work the ball around, find people cutting to the gaps, and hit the shot." 
Weber took her own words to heart. 
On a play similar to her last basket, she snuck behind the defense underneath the basket, where Jennifer Slosar found her with another thread-the­needle pass. With two Lawyers contesting her shot, the ball bounced once, twice, and then fell through to give CJ's the championship. 
Leyden was gracious in de­feat. 
"We had a lot of fun," she said. "We didn't expect to get this far, and Kathy Barron was 
. awesome throughout the whole tournament. We're just happy we got this far and did so well." And If it wasn't for Weber's effort, they might have gone all the way. 


Johnson 
continued from page 24 
Johnson attributes this im­provement to work with class­mate Lake Dawson over the winter. 
"Lake and I worked a lot on my hands during the winter," he said. "I learned how to watch the ball all the way in. 
Johnson was a highly re­garded option quarterback in high school, and was tried out as a signal-caller last fall. He spent the rest of the season in stints at wide receiver and de­fensive back. Johnson, 
We're Fighting For Your life. 
' 
ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 
TONIGHT! 
WOMEN A Film Festival 

How Flbrurwken Depkt Women 
presents 

THE COLOR PURPLE 
with discussion following 

Monday, April29 ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 7:30p.m. $2.50 co-sponsored by Year of Women and Educational Media 
239-5465 


I.Buy 4* ~~n~t the regula-;l I pnce and get 4 FREE ; Buy S I 1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 ann 1 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE~~~ 
It <~:-:..7t:~~.,.:-J
~­
_____, INDIAN RIDGE P~AZA 
NEXT TO IIENTUA~ 
GRAPE AO MISHAWAKA 
277-lfM{, 
Oally9-8 
Sat. 9-6 • Sun. 11·5 


however, has enjoyed his move back to flanker this spring. 
But Johnson seems to relish his latest assignment, as the set-up man of the Irish offense, most of all. 
"You've got ten blockers in front of you, and you can see things develop" said Johnson. "All you need is one little hole and you can be gone." 
The Observer Monday, April 29, 1991 
Baseball takes three of four from Billikens 
By RICHARD MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 
Cynics might say that the Notre Dame baseball team (32­
13) had a bad weekend. 
After all the Irish, winners of 15 straight going into the weekend, only took three out of four from MCC cellar dweller Saint Louis. In the process, though, the Irish set a team record for consecutive victories with 18 in a streak which saw the Irish play near flawless baseball. 
On Saturday, the Irish over­came the dreary weather to pummel the helpless Saint Louis pitching staff, banging out 30 hits in route to 8-5 and 18-7 victories. 
In the first game, starter David Sinnes struggled with his control, walking four in four innings of work. He gave way to Eric Danapilis (2-1) in the fifth, and he pitched the final three innings to pick up the victory. 
"Dave is his own worst en­emy. He puts a lot of pressure on himself after the season he had last year. He kept us in the game, though," said Murphy of Sinnes. 
The Irish took control of the game in the sixth as third baseman Cory Mee opened the inning with a single to right. Center fielder Dan Bautch fol­lowed with a bunt which was thrown away by Decker putting runners at second and third. 
After Craig Counsell knocked in Mee with a sacrifice fly, Jacobs launched his second homer of the game, giving the Irish the margin of victory. With that home run, Jacobs tied former Irish star Dan Peltier on the all-time ND home run list with 28. 
"They're totally different players. Jacobs is a power hit­ter, while Peltier was more of a line drive hitter. I think Jacobs will play on the next level (professional baseball) like Peltier is now," said Murphy comparing his past and present stars. 
In the nightcap, the Irish pounded out 20 hits in pummeling the Billikens. Their starter Brad Lindemann did not retire a batter before being lifted in the first inning. 
Irish freshman Tom Price (6­
2) got the victory with help from senior Matt Krall. 
After the Billikens scored four first-inning runs, the game was all Notre Dame. It scored seven in its half of the rrrst, two in the second and three apiece in the third, fourth and sixth. 
Sunday was a day of total contrast to Saturday's hitting exhibition as the Irish squeaked out a 2-1 victory in the opener, but dropped the second 3-1. 
The Irish received a sparkling performance from starter AI Walania in the opener. He went the distance, yielding only two hits, striking out four, and walking none to improve his record to 9-4. 
"AI was tough. He kept us in the game when our offense went to sleep," commented Murphy. 
In the second game, Billikens' pitcher Chris Chiburis baffled the Irish, scattering eight hits to gain the complete game win. 
The only Irish offense came in the third inning when Bautch hit his first career homer over the left field wall. 
Pat Leahy (6-2) took the loss for the Irish. 


Mondoy, Apr11 29. 1991 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Monday 
7 -9 p.m. "Student World Premieres," a Film and Video Show sponsored by Notre Dame Communications and Theatre at The Snite Museum of Art. Admission $2.00. All proceeds donated to El Camplto Day Care Center. 
7:30 p.m. Series of How Filmmakers Depict Women presents "The Color Purple," discussion following film. Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Sponsored by Year of Women and Educational Media. 
LECTURES 
Monday 
3:15 p.m. Theory Workshop, "Post-Modernism and a Critique of Political Economy," David Ruccio, associate professor, director of Latin American Studies. Room 131, Declo. Admission Free. Sponsored by economics de­partment. 
3:30 p.m. Charles Edison Lecture, "Do Real Engineers Use Theory?" Thomas Kailath, professor, Stanford University. Hoom 117, Cushing. Admission Free. Sponsored by the electrical engineering department. 
Tuesday 
12 p.m. Lecture: "Labor Unions and Macroeconomics: The Case of Brazil and the International Context." Edward Amadeo, visiting departmental fellow, Kellogg Institute Department of Economics, University of Notre Dame. For more Information, call 239 -6580. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Baked Parmesan Chicken Breast Beef Turnover with Gravy Eggplant Parmesan a Ia Mode Baked Chicken Breast with Herbs 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON THE FAA SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER "OBBE.S, ITS S\JSIE I 
'f.l\.11>.\ "'~\J\ f..\L~r>.~S R.IG~T U~ \JS .' \IS 11\£. 
0\lR Wt>.R? l M~ OR.OI'f't.O. C\-IM~CE Of f... LWEnME.! 
1\\00GI\T I ~') ~a)·~ 8K.I( RE~\.. Slo'()()n.\, l't>.SS -mt. B~ 
CJJT Cii' 1\\£a..lJB! \~! 'iou'R£ RONN AI'P\.ES Wt:ll£ S£IN 6fl-C.I( IN ! Sr..'JING! QIJ\C~! Q\.l\C\(! 

ACROSS 29 Playwright 58 Burden of proof Simon 
59 He wrote "War1 Home of the 30 Spree and Peace" Mets 33 Capital of Guam 62Toper
5 Ill-mannered ones 63 Mt. Blanc, par 
35 Actor O'Neal 36 Superb exemple

9 Biblical miracle site 64 Jots
37 He wrote "The Razor's Edge" 

13 Bitter 65 On which a riser 
40 Gardener, often 
rises14lnner: Comb. 

41 Franklin and 

form 66 Gypsy
Maxwell gentlemen15 Wading bird 42 Hues 67 He portrayed 16 She wrote 43 U.S.N. officer 

Zola 44 Roman"Emma" 

18 Swallow fast 
statesman 19 Spring mo. DOWN
45 Mass. state tree 

20 Drivel 46 Horrifies 1--Fiow, 21 Certain marbles 49 One, in Bonn British naval 23 Mantas 52 Dresser base 25 Race horse at 55 Fish bait 2 He wrote 
Yonkers "Washington
57 "Mighty--a 
Square"27 Jabber Rose" 

3 Poetic conjunction 4 Rhyme scheme 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 Composer Franck 6 He wrote 
26 Cooperative"Barchester groups

Towers" 28 Conflict
7 E.T.O.'s C.I.C. 
30 He wrote a Musical "Paradise Lost" 

composition 31 Med.-school
9 Cheroot, e.g. subject
10 Border on 32 Cat's-eyes, e.g. 
11 Shade of green 33 Tennis great 
12 Vipers 34 Thug
13 Discordant 35 Gaucho's rope 
17 Maximum: Abbr. 36 Nimble 22Congeal 38 Monk's garment 24 More rational 39 Western Indian 

"I'm starting to feel dependent." 
44 Pre parer of 51"The-the accts. to I.R.S. limit" 52 Curves
46 Fabulous 
53 Entity

fabulist 
54 Mystical mark 

47 Pear-shaped 
56 0ld Asian

instruments 
kingdom

48 Box-office sign 
60 Bridge man 50 Ruth's Culbertson mother-in-law 61 Actor Erwin 
Answers to any three clues in this 
puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 
minute). 
" 
JAY HOSLER 



-
.. 
Teo.,..,. * 48 7: "the. E:'lor"'04S Tetlm.
"/earn -# I q : I.f 71-,;s was N;,rfendo we 1d 
lho.T Wo11-ts fo Klll jOLI
kic_\c ':JOUr b~tt 
... .A book:sfore 9at'he--Fro"" 1/eo.ver... 
Sports 
page 24 
Offense showcased in Blue-Gold 
Irish break spring drills with new and improved attitude 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
When Saturday's Blue-Gold game ended Notre Dame's spring football practices, a new attitude was in the air. If Irish coach Lou Holtz gave his team slogans for the season, like former basketball coach Digger Phelps did, this squad's would be "We Are Family." 
For the record, the fmal was Blue 43 Gold 31. But the fmal score isn't what really matters 
.. about this game . The Irish players, from run­ning back Rodney Culver to tight end Derek Brown, seem to think that the Notre Dame football team for next season will be a closely-knit bunch. And to quite a few people, that spirit is remarkably similar to the 1988 national cham­pionship team. 
• 
"The attitude is just like a family," said Brown. "It's just like my freshman year (1988)." 
Said Culver, "It's a tremen­dous attitude. The younger players are taking in what the older players are teaching. We focus on one common goal." 
The game featured just about everything, from all sorts of trick plays to even a kickoff return for a touchdown from someone with a name other than Ismail. 
Sophomore Clint Johnson, nicknamed "Cosmic," returned five kickoffs for 220 total yards, including a beautiful 96-yarder that saw him hurdle two tacklers without breaking stride, leaving the kickoff team far behind. 
The offense, a worry after it scored only 19 points in the last two games of the 1990 season, appears to be a formidable 

Third time's a charm for All­Stars in 21-15 win over Tequila 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
Adworks made its third straight appearance in the championship game a charm, exploding in the second half to a 21-15 victory over Tequila White Lightning in the finals of the 20th Bookstore Basketball tournament. 
The win ended Bookstore MVP Derrick Johnson's four years of frustration in the tournament. After two consecutive runner-up finishes, the senior rounded out his stellar Bookstore career as a champion. 
"It took three tries to do it, but I'm really happy to finally win it," Johnson said afterward. "This is the 
.... 
best team I've played on; we had both speed and size. I wanted to go out my senior year and finally win." 
"I think Derrick's the best player in the tournament," said Tequila's Mike MacKinnon, himself a first-team All-Bookstore member. "Last year, he beat us. This year, he came out again, scores the winning poiq~ on us. He's a great player, probably the best on campus." 
Johnson also played a pivotal role in Adworks' semifinal game. He took the game over down the stretch as the second seed downed third-seeded Malicious Prosecution, its nemesis in the finals the past two years, 21-18. 
"The key was Derrick Johnson hitting.25-footers in the wet rain," said Rich Rolwing of Malicious. "You can't guard him in the rain because you have to let him shoot it. If he's going to make 25-footers, he deserves to win the game. Those were definitely backbreakers." 
see ADWORKS I page 20 
force, based on its performance in Saturday's game. 
The running game, the back­bone of the Irish attack, should suffer only from an overabun­dance of running backs. Senior running back Rodney Culver was moved to tailback to make room for sophomore Jerome Bettis at fullback, and Culver rushed for 117 yards on 14 carries. And next fall, with Bettis blocking for Culver, the opposition will be looking at over 455 pounds of running backs. 
"Jerome sets a big enough hole to drive a Mack truck through," said Culver. "I thought I could help the team better at this position." 
Bettis ran for 63 yards him­self, and Willie Clark managed 47 yards, while junior Dorsey 
see OFFENSE I page21 

Shades of Rocket seen in Johnson 
When Clint Johnson fell onto one knee in the north end zone of Notre Dame Stadium Saturday afternoon after returning a third quarter kickoff 96 yards for a touchdown, fans could be heard behind the goal posts, chanting "Rocket, Rocket." 
However, the freshman dodges comparison with 

Notre Dame's last return specialist, Raghib "Rocket" Ismail. 
"There will never be another Rocketman," said Johnson. "When people make that com­parison, I feel that it's an honor to me, but I am my own person." 
Johnson seems destined to make a name for himself on the football field, and began to do so with a stellar performance as kickoff returner for the Gold squad in Saturday's Blue-Gold game. 
Johnson returned five kickoffs for a total of 220 yards-a phenomenal 44-yard average. The race for the kickoff return position has lasted all spring, with Johnson's prime 

Monday, April 29, 1991 
The Observer/Kevin Weise Senior running back Rodney Culver breaks into the open field on one of his 14 carries during Saturday's Blue-Gold game. 

competition coming from tailback Willie Clark. While Johnson staked his claim to the starting spot, Clark returned one kickoff for 35 yards. Freshman Tom Carter, who has also been a factor in this battle, got 21 yards on his lone run back. 
Coach Lou Holtz was impressed with Johnson's performance Sunday, but cautioned against comparisons with Ismail. 
"Clint has very, very good speed," said Holtz. "He does not have Rocket's speed. He has that same flair, that same reckless abandon running the ball and seeing the open field, accelerating and turning it on. He likes to run. Some people have good speed, but they don't run in traffic as they're capable. Clint runs very fast whether he's in the open field or in traffic." 
Johnson showed his speed in traffic on his only reception of the day, a 28-yarder which was the Gold's longest play from scrimmage. 
Engaged in a battle with sophomore Adrian Jarrell for the starting spot at flanker this spring, Johnson impressed Holtz with his improvement at receiver this spring. 
"Clint Johnson has come light years as a wide receiver," Holtz said. 
see JOHNSON I page 22 
Adworks, CJ's Pub claim Bookstore championships 
Weber steps into spotlight as CJ's beats Hoosier Lawyers 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
An unsung heroine stepped forward to lead CJ's Pub to a 21-17 victory over Hoosier Lawyers in the championship of the Women's Bookstore Tournament Sunday afternoon. 
Kathleen Weber, an assistant coach with the women's basketball program, scored eight points to keep the Lawyers' defense from collapsing on Karen Robinson. More important, however, was the defensive pressure she put on Kathy Leyden, forcing her into an uncharacteristic 7-22 shooting performance. 
"She's tough on defense," Leyden said. "She makes you work really hard. She pushes you around a lot and tires you out. She did a great job today." 
Robinson had her usual stellar game as well, hitting 7-of-15 shots and making four steals in CJ's pressure defense. With she and Weber overplaying the passing lanes on the wings and trapping whenever possible, the two Lawyers' stars, Leyden and Miss Bookstore Kathy Barron, had a difficult time getting untracked. 
Forcing turnovers on the perimeter and quick shots from the Lawyers, CJ's tenacious defense allowed it to take command of the game early in the first half. With the Lawyers up 4-3, CJ's scored four straight points and nine of the next 11 to take a 12-6 lead. 
"We started rebounding hard, but we didn't have anybody back," Leyden said. "We weren't hitting our shots, and they had a few fast breaks, and I think that's what pretty much did it." 
"The biggest key (to the run) was getting on the boards," Weber said. "We were getting the ball out on 
see CJ'S I page 21 






