



IU2·19f2 
SISQUICINUNNIAL 
VOL. XXIV NO. 6 
MOSCOW (AP) -President Mikhail Gorbachev on Sunday promised independence to the Baltic republics, but said he would not resign or retreat from tho battle to maintain the Soviet Union as a country. 
Jr Independence "is the final wish and Intention of the peo­ple" of the Baltlcs, ~then I think we must agree to It," Gorbachev said In an Interview aired on Soviet television and the Cable News Network. 
Gorbachcv stressed the need to keep the rest of the country 
Yugoslavs accept EC peace plan 
BELGHADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Tho Yugoslav presidency and tho country's feuding republics accepted a European Commu­nity (EC) plan on Sunday do­signed to stop months of fierce fighting among Croats, Serbs, and tho army. 
It was unclear, however, whether the latest plan would succeed in ending months of bloodshed in this troubled na­tion. Earlier attempts at truces have failed. 
"Tho presidency accepts tho declaration of the EC minis­ters," a spokeswoman told re­porters gathered outside the conference room where the eight-man presidency had met. 
The plan envisages an inter­national peace conference on Yugoslavia and the dispatch of foreign cease-fire monitors to the battle-torn republic of Croatia. Before Implementa­tion, It had to be accepted by leaders of Yugoslavia's slx re­publics, also gathered in the federal capital. 
see PEACE I page 4 

server 
Intact, and said, ~I will not re­In Moscow, visiting British after discussions with Estonian sign now. That would be im­Prime Minister John Major said and Latvian leaders about moral." Britain would sponsor the maintaining economic ties 
Gorbachev's statement on the Baltics' entry into the United among former Soviet republics. Baltics met with joy in Lithua­Nations and other international nia. organizations. Major told reporbrs he had 
"I am glad that he has said Gorbachev met for 75 minutes sought assurances from Gor­this. This is the beginning of a in the Kremlin with Major, the bachev and Yeltsln that "the new period In history," Lithua­first Western leader to visit utmost care would be taken" to nian President Vytautas Lands­Moscow since last month's at­keep nuclear weapons under bergis told an estimated 20,000 tempted coup by hard-liners strict central control as more people at a victory rally in Vil­opposed to reforms. and more republics declare in­nius. dependence. He said they both 
~Now there must be concrete Major also met with Russian agreed. talks on the withdrawal of So­President Boris Yeltsin, who re­Despite their long rivalry, viet troops," added Landsbergis. turned to Moscow on Sunday both Yeltsin and Gorbachev 

By ALICIA REALE News Writer 
Harold Attridge, professor of theology at Notre Dame, be­came dean of the College of Arts and Letters in August. He succeeds Michael Loux, profes­sor of philosophy, who is re­turning to teaching and re­search. 
"Like his predecessor, Harold Attridge brings to the deanship of Arts and Letters a record of distinguished scholarship and a potential for leadership that al­ready has been evidenced in his own department of theology," said Timothy O'Meara, the Uni­versity's provost and the chair of the search committee for the new dean. 
Attridge said he has no plans for major changes within the college. "The Freshman Writ­ing Program is under examina­tion in both components, Freshman Seminar and Compo­sition and Literature," he said. "A report is being made by a 
The Observer!M. Schropp 

faculty committee, and on the basis of this, some changes may be made." 
Blessed with beautiful weather, the Sophomore class celebrates 
Teaching and"'tesearch are 
its return to Notre Dame with an outdoor mass at the Grotto. 
integral to the college, and one will not be stressed over the 
~r~H!~ 
~­
. 1!1:--
Samt Marys College 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 

MONDAY I SEPTEMBER 2, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Gorbachev promises independence for Baltics 
have been trying to prevent the union from evaporating In the power vacuum that has fol­lowed the Aug. 18-21 coup and the subsequent suspension of the Communist party. 
Gorbachev said In the TV In­terview that during a meeting earlier Sunday, 11 of the 15 re­publics agreed to maintain some form of union, although its exact shape Is yet to be worked out. Those not repre­sented apparently were the Baltics and Moldavia. 
Attridge takes over as dean of Arts & Letters 
other, according to Attridge. ~They are a balancing act, and we are committed to doing both well." 
Attridge said he Is aware of the large class size problems within the college. "There Is a 5 year plan for faculty devel­opment drawn up with Michael Loux." He hopes to continue with that plan explaining, "The plan Is updated and renegoti­ated each year to meet the needs of the college." 
The DART registration for the fall semester went much more smoothly for this fall, according to Attridge. He said, "The technical bugs seem to be working themselves out, and the problems remaining are of social organization." 
Diane Murray and Kimberly Flint-Hamilton, newly ap­pointed associate deans of the College of Arts and Letters, are monitoring and planning the registration situation. "We'll certainly be working on It," At­tridge said. 
~I'm still learning the ropes," he said. "I've only been aboard for 4 or 5 days." 
Regarding the new position, Attridge said he Is anticipating 
see DEAN I page 4 


Hoosier literacy programs in need 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Some 600,000 II oosiers can't read, write, add or subtract, but offi­cials say inadequate money, re­sources and concern among those who can road compounds the problem. 
More than 400 literacy pro­grams are offered statewide. But 1,300 Hoosiers arc on waiting lists, because some lit­eracy classes are filled, said Carlotta Anderson, director of adult education for the Indiana Departmet11 of Education. 
Most of Indiana's 1 million high school dropouts never drop back Into learning, and less than 5 percent of the 600,000 Hoosiers who can't road, write, add or subtract get help, officials say. 
Thoro Isn't enough concern among those who can read, said Indiana Superintendent of Public Instruction II. Dean Evans. 
Evans says Illiterate adults are more likely to end up on welfare or In trouble. 
"This country cannot sustain Itself with a population of 25 million illiterates," he said. 
Officials say 98 businesses, jails, hospitals, housing com­plexes, libraries and community centers that wanted to conduct literacy classes can't because resources aren't available. 
~People say, 'There's all that money out there,' but it's not true," said Anderson, whose program Is funded by $11.5 million in state funds. "Money Isn't tho answer to everything, but we must reach more peo­ple." 
State Sen. Dennis Neary, D­Michlgun City, said that with 600,000 functionally illiterate people in the state, $11.5 mil­lion allows only $19 per person. 
"That's not even the price of a textbook," said Neary. 
Neary and Anderson say while more money is needed, so Is better coordination among existing programs. 
David Stahly, director of adult education for Warren Township, Is putting together a Marlon County referral network that would match students with programs. 
In Marion County alone, at 
least 3 7 groups offer literacy 
programs, and Indianapolis 
Public Schools offers classes at 
47 other sites. · 
Many illiterate people are 
ashamed or afraid to admit 
their problem. 
"Often they have gone to 
great lengths to hide the fact 
that they can't read," said Alicia 
Chadwick, vice president of 
marketing for the Indianapolis 
Network for Employment and 
Training. 
Chadwick's group, called UPWORDS, is housed in the same building as a Marlon County unemployment office, and is pitched to everyone who .stops by for unemployment or 
disability benefits. 
Last year, that pitch worked 
Ronald Childs, who quit Tech 
High School in his freshman 
year. 

"When I was young, everyone 
thought I was retarded," said 
Childs. "I decided to prove them 
wrong." 


The Observer/ M. Schropp

Four Wheel Drive 
Kevin Roxas and Drew Yurko hit the paths around St. Joseph's Lake on their man-powered all-terrain vehicles. 




page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

A few pros and cons to off­campus living 
One thing that can't be------­beat about living off­campus: air conditioning. 
And don't forget about cable, no parietals, no alcohol policy, and the private outdoor swimming pool either. 

I have it better than some ofT-campus students, living in the Oak Hill complex. After over a year of ofT-campus living, I have come to the conclusion that to survive at Notre Dame, it's the way to go. 
Oh, there are some things that I miss. 
First, it was nice not having to worry about cooking for myself. Dining hall food isn't the greatest, but it's convenient-especially if you're as lazy as I am-and can't be any worse than some of the meals that I've cooked in mvlife. 
Second, you become isolated, ofT on your own little island. Unlike dorm life, there's no section members to gather for a pick-up basketball game, no T-shirt sellers going door-to-door. Inevitably, you miss out on campus news. 
Worse, though, you lose track of the friends you made living in the dorms. Instead of hanging around them night after night, shooting the breeze, complaining about the food, your RA, how little money you have, you only see them in passing in the classrooms or on the sidewalks. Or you have to make a conscious effort to go and see them, not always an easy task. 
Third, the administration treats you like the black sheep of the ND community. While most on-campus students got ticket appli-cations delivered to your doorstep, off-campus students had to stand in line to pick them up. 
As well, all those lovely campus mailings mysteriously bypass my mailbox. Okay, most are pure garbage, heading straight for the round file. Once in a while, however, an important piece of news does get mixed in, but for some reason, 29 cents is too much to ask from this school to spend so I can fmd out about it. 
But, these are trivial matters. 

Because living off-campus also means having a sense of freedom, of escaping the zoo that is called "Notre Dame." 
It means having a social life that doesn't necessarily have to end when and where Du Lac specifies. 
It means being my own boss, not having to worry about some RA or rector telling me that that poster is inappropriate, my music is too loud, that an open container is illegal. 
But, best of all, living off-campus means jealous looks, phone calls asking what time the game is on ESPN, friends asking when they can use the pool or washing machine (it's in the basement-no charge). 
So ofT-campu.s students have to depend on South Bend's finest to defend our property and have some of the worst parking spots on campus designated solely for our use. 
While on-campus students sit sweltering in cramped dorm rooms, thinking of ways to get around Du Lac, I think I'll kick back on my couch, in air conditioned comfort, and watch some ESPN. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Rene Ferran Associate Spor:ti Editor 
Scoreboard 
Today's Staff: Anthony King 

Bualneaa Accent 

Colette LaForce 

Mike Lorenzo 
Colleen Gannon Pruductlon 
Newa Rich RileyPeter Loftus Kristin LynchMary Murphy Michelle Wood 

Sporta Graphic•

Dave McMahon Brendan Regan 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductton rights are reserved. 
The Observer 




TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NAnONAL 

Historians recognize past of Centralia 
•CENTRALIA, Wa. -Historians are officially noting the "~entralia Armistice Day Riot," an event that until a few years ago was rarely even whispered about in Centralia, Washington. On Nov. 11, 1919, members of the radical Industrial Workers of the World shot dead four young World War I veterans who bolted from an Armistice Day parade to help beat up the "Wobblies" and wreck their union hall in the center of this logging and farming community. That night, after arranging a power outage, a mob of townspeople dragged Wobbly member Wesley Everest from jail and hanged him from a bridge outside town. 
Body discovered in train wreckage 
•LEDGER, Mo. -The second body of a crew member in the wreckage of two Burlington Northern freight trains that crashed head-on late last week.was found Sunday. Nine locomotives and thirty one freight cars derailed in the collision Friday near this tiny, north­central Montana farming town. Searchers aided by dogs continued the search through huge piles of wreckage for another crewman still missing, said Gus Melonas, a company spokesman.Four crew members were hospitalized in Great Falls and another was flown to a burn center in Salt Lake City. 

OF INTEREST 

•FRESHMAN STUDENT DIRECTORIES will be distributed at the LaFortune Information Desk on today from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/August 30 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 173.94 Million 216.69 

.. '.43 S&P COMPOSITE 395.43 
"' 1.04
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,043.60 {} 6.04 PRECIOUS METALS GOLD..f $ 3.00to $350.90/oz. SILVER+ 10.1¢ to $3.82/oz. 
Monday, September 2, 1991 
fORECAST: 
Mostly sunny and mild on Labor Day w~h a high around 80 degrees. Partly sunny Tuesday w~h a 30 percent chance of thundershowers. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
A!hens  81  66  
Atlanta  94  72  
Berlin  81  55  
Boston  70  53  
Chicago  74  60  
Dallas·Ft.Worth  85  73  
87  56  
73  55  
89  73  
89  75  
86  62  
81  59  
88  64  
79  59  
85  78  
Moscow  55  41  
New York  72  57  
Paris  79  59  
Philadelphia  76  60  
Rome  84  62  
St. Louis  90  71  
San Francisco  74  57  
Seattle  70  53  
South Bend  78  52  
Tokyo  88  79  
Washington, D.C  79  65  


Dottie West in critical condition 
•NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Country music singer Dottie West was in critical condition Sunday facing more surgery to correct a ruptured liver and find out if her neck was broken in a weekend car crash. West, 58, remained on a respirator and drifted in and out of consciousness at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, hospital spokeswoman Barbara Cramer said. Her condition was listed as critical but stable. The singer underwent emergency surgery after the crash Friday that came while driving to a performance at the Grand Ole Opry. 

INTERNATIONAL 
Honor defense angers feminists 
•BRAZIL 
-Brazilian feminists are outraged by the second acquittal of a man who argued he killed his wife and her lover in a legitimate defense of honor. Though the "honor" defense is not part of Brazil's legal code, it is commonly accepted by courts, especially those in tiny, rural towns in the interior. The issue returned to the spotlight Thursday when a jury in Parana state court acquitted Joao Lopes, a bricklayer who caught his wife with another man in a hotel in Apucarana, a small city in Brazil's southern farming belt. 

•OF 
INTERESTS are a free public service forum. The must be free, one-time events of a general interest to the community. The deadline for Of Interests is 1 p.m. one day prior to publication. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1920: Jack Dempsey holds onto heavyweigl;t crown, knocking out Billy Miske in the third round at Benton Harbor, Michigan. 

• 
In 1932: Spanish republic abolishes the death penalty. 

• 
In 1943: United States asks Chinese Nationalists to join with Communists and present unified front to Japan. 

• 
In 1972: Amnesty International accuses Brazil of torturing pol~ical prisoners. 

• 
In 1980: Chris Evert Lloyd beats Hana Mandlikova in New York for U.S. Open @e. 




Monday, September 2, 1991 The Observer page 3 

~~~~~~~~~---->"~:·:.. ::··~--•-tall down 


The Observer!M. Schropp 
Sailing Club Practice 
Larry Eiven and Rudy Bryce take their mast down after a sail on the smooth waters of St. Joseph's Lake. 

0 F F I C E R S' T R A I N I N G C 0 R P S 
.................................. 

----~=:·:~~~~~~~:.~-----------------·········---··············:: ...... 
-~~:_....----------------------------·········--· 
----------------------------··--· 
START AN IMPRESSIVE RESUME WITH ACOLLEGE ELECTIVE. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL CAPTAIN SELLING 239-6264 
Take an introductory course from Army ROTC. With no obligation. You'll begin to acquire the confidence, self-discipline, decisiveness, and leadership skills sought by employers ofcollege graduates. And you'll learn how you can place "Army Officer" on your resume when you graduate. 
Set a course for success this term. Register now for an Army ROTC elective. 





ARMY ROTC 
THE SMA1n5T COWGE COURSE YOU C:AN Tm. 
Former Albanian officials arrested 
VIENNA, Austria (AP) ­Albanian authorities have begun arresting former leaders associated with Enver Hoxha, the late Stalinist dictator, Albania's chief anti-Communist party reported Sunday. 
The Democratic Party, in a telex received In Vienna, said Manush Myfllu and Kino Buxheli were detained Saturday and brought to prison in Tirana, Albania's capital. 
Their arrests were witnessed by prison workers, whose accounts were reliable, said the telex. Both are former Politburo members and held other high offico, it said. 
There was no indopendent confirmation of the arrests, said to have followed a rally of Democratic Party supporters. An estimated 25,000 people gathered at the All Deml stadium cheered as speakers called for the eradication of Communism's vestiges in Albania. 
The meeting Saturday represented the biggest anti­Communist rally In Albania since strikes in May forced the ruling Communists in the Party of Labor -now the Socialist Party -to share power despite an eloction victory in April. 
The telex Sunday cited reliable sources as saying more arrests of former Politburo members associated with Stalinist excesses would be made. 
News of the reported detentions came amid growing sentiment In Albania to punish key Communist figures considered responsible for instituting and maintaining Europe's most ropressivo dictatorship for more than four decades. 
lloxha's widow, Nexhmije, was summoned last week to Albania's Headquarters of Investigation and questioned on allegations that her family had abused privileges for 4 7 years. 
President Ramiz Alia, lloxha's successor in 1985, ushered in reform last December, when he permitted other political parties. But Alia, Hoxha's prime minister, had refused to condemn his mentor, and official moves against Hoxha's family would have been unthinkable several months ago. 
Boy dies in 


water pipe 
NEW YORK (AP) -A 12-year­old boy tumbled 600 feet to his death Saturday down a water pipe after he and two friends went exploring at a construction site. 
Rescuers spent 15 hours try­ing to roach the boy, winding four miles through sewage pipes at the construction site in New York City's Bronx section. 
"He was just badly crushed by the Impact on his body," said Jerry Sanford, a fire de­partment spokesman. 
Donre Carroll and two friends entered the pipe Saturday afternoon at a horizontal section and were trapped in a U-shaped portion that bent downward. 
The other boys, Anton Dennis and Giovanni Rlos, both 12, wore rescued before they could slip downward, Sanford said. 
"He must have wandered away or continued or got sopa­ratod," Sanford said. "These kids wore completely In the dark." 
Using high-powered binocu­lars, rescuers spotted the boy's bloody body Saturday night In a shallow puddle at the bottom of the 36-lnch-wide pipe. 
During the search involving more than 150 rescuers, Mayor David Dinkins rushed to the construction site, where ques­tions arose over who was re­sponsible for capping the open shan.. 
Genevieve Brooks, deputy borough president In the Bronx, said her office will In­vestigate why the pipe wasn't covered. 
STOP! 

Do not throw this paper away. Please recycle. 


page4 



Dean 
continued from page 1 
"its challenges as well as its rewards. I am looking forward to deserving the college and getting together with depart­ment chairs and making the college work." 
Attridge, a specialist in Hel­lenic Judaism, second century church history, and the New Testament, came to Notre Dame in 1985 after eight years on the faculty of Southern Methodist University's Perkins School of Theology. The most recent of his seven books are "Nag Hammadi Codex I (The Jung Codex)" and "Hebrews: A Commentary on the Epistle to the Hebrews." 
Attridge received his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1975. While still a candidate for his doctor­ate, he studied at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem on a Harvard travelling fellowship. 
From 1974-77 he was a ju­nior fellow of Harvard's distin­guished Society of Fellows. He holds bachelor's and master's degrees from Cambridge Uni­versity, where as a Marshall Scholar he read Greek philoso­phy for part II of the Classical Tripos. The Massachusetts native also holds a bachelor's degree summa cum laude from Boston College. He was the re­cipient of a Guggenheim Fel­lowship in 1983-84. 

The deanship has been desig­nated the George N. Shuster Deanship, according to O'Meara. "Harry Attridge brings to the Shuster Deanship a record of distinguished scholarship and research dat­ing to his years at Cambridge and Harvard Universities," O'Meara said. 
The Shuster endowment memorializes the 1915 Notre Dame alumnus who served as president of Hunter College from 1939-60, then returned to ND to direct the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society from 1961 until his re­tirement a decade later. Recip­ient of the University's Laetare 

Peace 
Yugoslavia Fighting 
continued from page 1 

It was approved 7-1 by the Army and Croatian police ex­presidency, with Montenegro, change fire at the Zagreb airport. Serbia's ally, opposed, the "rm=::: 
spokeswoman said. 
Leaders of the republics ap­
proved the plan shortly after 
the presidency. 
The presidency began the 
closed-door session only hours 
after the arrival of Dutch For­
eign Minister Hans Van den 
Broek, current president of the 
12-nation European Commu­
nity, who was carrying the 
peace plan. 
Although cautious, Van den 
Broek said before the talks that 
a cease-fire and truce monitor­
ing plan could be signed within 
hours. 
"We have received sufficient 
positive indications that make 
us hopeful that we can 
conclude this agreement" with 
aU parties, he said. 
Serbia was the last holdout, 
accepting the EC plan Saturday. But even as the peace process was going on, so was the bloodshed. Five people were killed Sunday in renewed fight­ing, Croatian officials said in 
Zagreb. Meanwhile, all but one c-f Croatia's airports reopen«> d Sunday. The republic's airspace 
was closed a day earlier when army jets intercepted a Ugan­dan plane that reportedly car­ried contraband arms to Slove­nia. 
ILUMOII ·IIIOIAIIA 
CHICAGO
•


MOTOR 

CLUB 

John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers Auto & Property Insurance 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 5922 GRAPE ROAD INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 ,Please ask for John O'Malley. 

Finally! 
Happy 21st, 

€!> Tim. 
Love Always, 
Nancy 
~ 
•.' 
The Qbserver!M. Schropp 

Indian Summer Continues 
Despite the shortening days of September and the beginning of classes, Kelly Higgins and Mandy Eiler are able to bask in the sun on the Fieldhouse Mall. 

'mUit~DAY l\ll ~11UDAY SEPTEMR~~R 12 ANU 13 








ARIEL 

8:10p.m. Washington Hall 
Tickets: $8 Students/$10 Non-Students available at the LaFortune Center Box Office 
Ariel is a talented Russian Pop Pianist who has enamored audiences around the country. His performances incorporate native Russian stories with contemporary, traditional and original piano pieces. AU.S. citizen for five years, Ariel has followed his dream to bring the magic and wonder of the piano to America. 

COME JOIN THE FUN AT THE ANNUAL 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
SEPTEMBER 3. I 991 
JACC FIELDHOUSE 
7:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m. 
SPONSORED BY THE 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 

Monday, September 2, 1991 The Observer page 5 




Libertarians hope to grow in '92
Kremlin assures West missiles under control MOSCOW (AP) -The tiny Improbable was shared by a but deadly chance that Soviet half-dozen Soviet and Western nuclear arms will fall into the experts Interviewed on the wrong hands Is worrying the subject following the fai)ed West. The Soviets sought to Moscow coup. make fresh assurances By far, the majority of Soviet Sunday that they will remain missiles and bombers capable under Kremlin control. of hitting the West are in the "I think that any time you Russian republic, according to have 27,000 nuclear Soviet and Western sources. weapons, and you have political instability and About 15 to 20 percent of uncertainty, whatever the the strategic nuclear force dangers are, they go up consists of blockbuster SS-18 some," said Son. Sam Nunn, missiles in Kazakhstan, on D-Ga., chairman of the Senate Russia's southern flank. Armed Services Committee. Additionally, the Soviets "But I think that the odds have based an unknown are still overwhelmingly percentage of their long­against an accident," Nunn range SS-24 missiles on trains said after meeting with the that move through the now Soviet defense minister, second-most populous Soviet Yevgeny Shaposhnlkov. republic, the Ukraine, also to Nunn, Interviewed by The Russia's south, according to Associated Press, said he Soviet and U.S. sources. They expected to raise the issue spoke on condition of Monday with President anonymity. Mikhail Gorbachev. Shorter-range tactical nu­Visiting British Prime Minis­clear weapons are stationed ter John Major said he sought in other republics, such as assurances from Gorbachev Byelorussia to the West. and Russian President Boris These, in Nunn's view, could Yeltsln during meetings pose a greater danger. Sunday "that the utmost care "We have to ask the would be taken that nuclear question, 'Arc they more the weapons would be kept under source of deterrent stability strict central control." He said or are they more the source of both agreed. invitations for terrorist groups The view that a nuclear or even opposing forces in a accident was extremely civil war?"' said Nunn.  
Ihe Obsen!er= .••needs a SMC DAY EDITOR For morcr Information please call Jennifer Habrych 284-4426 Day Editor must be able to work Mon. Wed. & Fri aftcrrnoons Unluerslty of Notre Dame International Study Program lnfonnatlon Meeting With Professor A. Wimmer Monday Evening, September 2 at 6:30 pm Satellite I, Room 242 O'Shaughnessy Returnees will be on hand lo answer questions  
is looking for an enthusiastic student to fill the following position: Assistant News Editor To apply, or for further information, contact: Monica Yant, 239-5303 Applications will be due Friday, September 6.  

CHICAGO (AP) -Society di­gests new ideas in three phases, says Libertarian Party member Jon Kalb. First they're ridiculed, then debated, and fi­nally accepted. The Libertari­ans believe they have gotten past the ridicule phase. 
"I think we're In the phase where our ideas are starting to be debated and I think people who consider our Ideas with an open mind are starting to ac­cept them," Kalb said at the party's presidential nominating convention, which continued through Sunday. 
Acceptance is the most Liber­tarians dare hope for in 1992; they acknowledge that their presidential nominee, Andre Marrou, hardly stands a chance. 
With the Democrats in disar­ray 14 months before the elec­tion, President Bush looks like a shoo-in for another term, said delegate Dottle-Lou Brokaw of Woodstock, N.Y. "To say otherwise would be silly," she said. 
But like many members of the country's third-largest political party, Brokaw was confident of winning converts next year. 
The Libertarians hope to be on the ballot in every state, and say they expect to get a lot of anti-Bush votes from people who see no significant differ­ence between the GOP and the Democrats. 
The platform of the 20-ycar­old Libertarian Party Is radi­cally different from those of the major parties. Libertarians ad­vocate personal freedom and voluntary cooperation. They oppose taxes and regulation and see national defense as the federal government's main function. 
Several convention speakers said they favored making all drugs legal, under the Libertar­ian view that the government should let people make their own mistakes. 
Many Libertarians find their individualist philosophy defined In the works of author Ayn Rand, whose best-known novels are "The Fountainhead" and "Atlas Shrugged." 
The four-day convention was attended by 453 delegates from all 50 states -mostly white men In their 30s and 40s. 
Gary D. McGath of Penacook, N.H., said he was splitting his time between the Libertarian convention and the World Science Fiction Convention at another hotel. 
"There's a lot of overlap be­tween the Libertarians and the sci-fi people," he said. "They're both interested In the future, new possibilities, the frontier." 
The Libertarian Party, founded In 1971 in Colorado, met its greatest success In the 1980 election when a ticket headed by Edward Clark re­ceived 921,000 votes. 
The. party's 1988 ticket, 
headed by Ron Paul, garnered 
430,000 votes compared to 47.9 
million for the Bush-Quayle 
ticket. 
Marrou was the vice presi­
dential candidate In 1988. In 
his acceptance speech Saturday, 
he pledged, Jf elected, to repeal 
the federal Income tax and 
abolish the Internal Revenue 
Service. 
Marrou, a 52-year-old com­mercial real estate agent from Las Vegas, was opposed by Richard Benjamin Boddie, a charismatic motivational speaker from Huntington Beach, Calif. Marrou got 257 votes to 155 for Boddie. 
Dr. Nancy Lord, a physician and lawyer from Washington, D.C., defeated Boddie on the third ballot Sunday for the vice­presidential nomination. There were three other aspirants, In­cluding New Hampshire state Representative Calvin Warbur­ton. 
Don Ernsberger, a national committee member from Warminster, Pa., conceded there was little difference be­tween the candidates: "Ask them about 50 issues and they'll agree on 48." 
But Marrou had ruffied some feathers when he announced he would apply for federal match­ing campaign funds if his cam­paign met the Federal Election Commission's requirement of raising $5,000 in each of 20 states. 
35 inmates injured in California jail riot 
SANTA CLARITA, Calif. (AP) ­More than 90 inmates rioted early Sunday at a Los Angeles County jail after a face-off be­tween Hispanic and black pris­oners. Thirty-five inmates were Injured. 
The hour long melee stemmed from an earlier argument over use of a telephone, sheriff's Deputy Rich Erickson said. 
Hispanic and black inmates confronted each other in a dormitory in the maximum-se­curity area of Pitchess Honor Rancho, about 30 miles north­east of Los Angeles, Erickson said. 
All 92 prisoners in the dorm, some with homemade knives, joined in the riot, he said. 
in good condition. 
The fight stemmed from an incident Saturday when a His­panic Inmate and black inmate argued over use of a telephone, Erickson said. 
The phones are used by In­mates on a first-come, first­served basis. 
"That argument evolved Into a fight hours later and the in­mates paired off with their re­spective races," Erickson said. 

A CLASS DESIGNED FOR THE SERIOUS EXERCISER 
COMBINE HIGH INTENSITY CALISTHENICS WITH THE AEROBIC BENEFITS OF JUMPING ROPE IDEAL FOR ROTC STUDENTS AND TRIATHLETES TUE/THUR 5:10-5:55 RM 301 ROCKNE $15/SEMESTER 


SIGN UP TODAY 
IN THE REC SPORTS/NVA OFFICE 

page 6 The Observer Monday, September 2, 1991 



Provost announces new NO faculty members 
Special to The Observer 
New faculty members at Notre Dame have been an­nounced by Timothy O'Meara, provost. 
In the College of Arts and Letters, new faculty include: Bruce Auerbach, communica­tions and theater; Andrzej Bartnicki, history; Gregory Bassham, philosophy; Taszio Bruszt, sociology, government and international studies and Kellogg Institute; Rev. A.B.T. Byaruhangh-Akiiki, African and African-American Studies; Bryan Byers, sociology; Maria Carrano, romance languages and literatures; 
Also: Laura Crago, history; Jcan Ann Dabb, art, art history and design; Patricia Davis, gov­ernment and international studies; Marina DeFazio, ro­mance languages and litera­tures; Jay Dobrutsky, English; Richard Donnelly, communica­tion and theater; Julia Douthwaite, romance languages and literatures; Marie-Christine Escoda-Risto, romance languages and literatures; Kiyomi Fujimoto, classical and Oriental languages and literatures; Benedict Giamo, American studies; 
William Goralski, art, art history and design; Barbara 
Green, English; Sister Mary Louise Gude, romance lan­guages and literatures; Marianne Hahn, romance lan­guages and literatures; Lawrence Hoffman, theology; and Cyraina Johnson, English. 
Also: Augustus Jordan, psy­chology; Marjorie Kinsey, arts and letters core course; Yukiko Koshiro, history; Nicholas Lash, theology; Mary Linehan, history; Robert Mahorney, art, art history and design; Kerry Marsh, psychology; Paul McDowell, romance languages and literatures; 
John Messenger, anthropol­ogy; Olgha Mazaroff, German and Russian languages and lit­eratures; Rev. Lawrence Mjoroge, theology; Adela Penagos, romance languages and literatures; Hermann Pottmeyer, theology; John Quinn, history; Benjamin Radcliff, government and inter­national studies; Cathleen Regan, romance languages and literatures; 
Also: Mark Ring, music; Christine Rutledge, music; Martin Asiz, government and international studies; Diane Scherzer, physical education; April Schultz, American studies; Robert Schultz, American stud­ies; Mark Schurr, anthropology; Rev. William Seetch, C.S.C., freshman writing program; Gary Siever, communication and theater; Jeannette Sheerin, program of liberal studies; Sun­Joo Shin, philosophy; 

Peter Smith, music; Lynette Psillman, sociology; Donald Stump, arts and letters core course; Eleanore Stump, phi­losophy; John Tracey, social science training and research laboratory; James Vanderkam, theology; Paula Waddill, psy­chology; Marcia Weigle, gov­ernment and international studies; Henry Weinfield, pro­gram of liberal studies; Paul Weithman, philosophy; John Wright, theology; Majrorie Yarger, social science training and research laboratory; Randall Zachman, theology, and Dean Zimmerman, philosophy. 
In the College of Business Administration: William Brennen, marketing; Carolyn Callahan, accountancy; Curtis 
A. Coffer, accountancy; Liana Cunningham, MBA program; James Davis, management; Ralph El-Chami, finance and business economics; John Fields, management; D. Wade Hands, economics; Joyce Manthay, MBA program, Arthur Money, MBA program London; Ramachandran Ramanan, accountancy; Michael 
New academic-administrative appointments named 
Special to The Observer 
The following names of Notre Dame faculty receiving aca­demic-administrative appoint­ments have been announced by the University's Provost, Ti­mothy O'Meara: 
John Attanasio; John Regan, director of the Joan Kroc Insti­tute for International Peace Studies; Harold Attridge, Ge­orge Shuster, dean of College of Arts and Letters; Steven Bass; Schubmehi-Prein, chair of de­partment of computer science and engineering; Steven Batill, director of Bessert Center for Aerospace Research; 
Also: Joseph Bauer, associate dean for academic affairs, Law School; Sister Kathleen Cannon, O.P., director of Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry; Lawrence Cunningham, chair of department of theology; Jeanne Day, associate chair, department of psychology; Fernand Dutile, acting dean, 
Law School; Kimberly Flint­Hamilton, associate dean, College of Arts and Letters; Samuel S. Gaglio, assistant dean for administration, College of Business Administration. 
Also: Lt. Col. Robert Gillespie, chair of department for military science; Paul Grimstad, as­sistant chair of department for biological sciences; Anthony Hyder, associate vice president for research, Graduate School; Eric Jumper, associate chair, undergraduate aerospace engi­neering program; Barry Keat­ing, chair of department of fi­nance and business economics. 

Also: A. Graham Lappin, as­sociate chair of department of chemistry and biochemistry; Arnold Ludwig, assistant dean for executive education, College 

Seniors interested in Senior Formal Committee Sign up at LaFortune Info. Desk Deadline Wednesday, Sept. 4. 
Sandretto, accountancy; Scott Seibert, management; Debra Katherine Spiess, finance and business economics; and Joseph Tama, management. 
In the College of Engineering: Nadia Alhasani, architecture; Steven Bas, computer science and· engineering; John Berger, aerospace and mechanical engineering; Edumundo Corona, aerospace and mechan­ical engineering; Jean-Francais Gaillard, civil engineering and geological sciences; Stephen Goodnick, electrical engineer­ing; Anthony Hyder, aerospace and mechanical engineering; John Kenney, computer science and engineering; Michael Lykoudis, architecture; Eduardo Ramos, aerospace and mechanical engineering; and Samir Younes, architecture. 
In the College of Science: John Adams, biological sciences; Marco Andreattta, mathemat­ics; Edoardo Ballico, mathe­matics; Also Biancoflore, math­ematics; Yu Chen, mathematics; Leonid Faybusovich, mathemat­ics; Jacek Kossut, physics; Elvira L. Livorni, mathematics; Zadila Suarez Mata, biological sciences; Viacheslav Nikulin, mathematics; Manachanallur Rave, mathematics; Fumio Sakai, mathematics; Michael Schneider, mathematics; George 
of Business administration; Scott Maxwell, chair of de­partment of psychology; William McLean, associate dean, Law School; Kevin Misiewicz, assistant chair of department of accountancy. 
Also: Diane Murray, associate dean, College of Arts and Let­ters; Kathie Newman, associate dean, College of Science; Walther Pratt Jr., assistant Schumacher, mathematics; Bradley Smith, chemistry and biochemistry; Hitoshi Taniguchi, radiation laboratory; Akria Tatehata, chemistry and biochemistry; and Mitchell Wayne, physics. 
In the Law School: Sabrina McCarthy and Kevin Warren. 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies has added Haim Gordon and Robert Holmes. 
The Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies has added Caren Addis, Manuel Glave Testino, Fabrlce E. Lehoucq, JoAnn Martin, Juan Morewno Brid, Kenneth Roberts, Cynthia Sarti, Hector Schamis, Kenneth Servin, Thomas E. Skidmore, Rose Spalding, and Lisvio Waisbord. 
Reserve Officers' Training Corps additions include: Lt. Col. Robert Gillespie. Lt. Rober Hilarides, Lt. James Jenista, Capt. James Pattison, and Lt. John Plohetski. 
Among other newly appointed faculty are: Fernandre Boze, University libraries; Mary Bryson, Center for Pastoral Liturgy, Cecilia Lucero, fresh­man year of studies; and Joan Pendergast, Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry and Program for Church Leaders. 


dean, Law School; Joan Cather­ine Pendergast, acting director, Program for Church Leaders; Robert Schmuhl, acting chair, department of American stud­ies; Paul Shanley, assistant chair and director of graduate studies, department of physics; Kern Trembath, assistant chair of department of theology; Su­san Youens, acting chair of de­partment of music. 

The Observer has positions for Day Editor and typists. Contact Dannika Simpson at 239-7471 or X4233 


•2 Medium Cheese Pizzas 
•One single order of Breadsticks 
• 2 Softdrinks --ffi •$10 plus tax 
Saint Marys Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 


must show ND or SMC ID 


Expires October I,1991 
Fulbright Competition 
1992-1993 
Seniors Interested in Pursuing Graduate Study Abroad are inuited to an informational meeting with aduisor, John Welle(7204) on Wednesday, September 4th at 7:30 p.m. in room 118 O'Shaughnessy. 

-------~----~-----------------­




Business 
Monday, September 2, 1991 page 7 
From Madonna to lacocca, symbolic analysts succeed 
a world marketplace where drag down other areas such as brokering and finding creative national borders have lost much banking and real estate. ways to use data, words and of their meaning, Reich says. David Wyss, research director other representations. These Big corporations increasingly for DRI-McGraw Hill in include engineers, lawyers, spread their webs abroad. Lexington, said that while the advertisers, entertainers and Engineers and entertainers also global market is at work in executives. profit by selling their services in some industries, it does not The trend not only in the foreign markets. apply in every case. Many United States but around the 
In the meantime, workers on businesses cannot divorce world has been to pay better assembly lines and in other themselves from the local wages to the final category, routine jobs are sucked into economy, he said. Reich said. International competition, as "If you're building houses (in In his book, he estimates that companies shop around the Massachusetts), you don't even the average income of the world to find cheap labor. talk about what's happening in poorest fifth of Americans 
"Routine production jobs (in Pennsylvania, much less Tran­declined by about 5 percent America) are a vanishing sylvania," he said. between 1977 and 1990, while species," Reich said. But Wyss agrees the global the richest fifth became about 9 
In his recent book, "The Work trend will continue. percent wealthier. of Nations," Reich describes MWe're not to one world yet, As this trend persists, income how the nation's upper tier has but we're on the way," he said. gaps in the United States will been essentially seceding from Under Reich's scenario, the continue to grow, as will the the lower tier, as the wealthy larger global market should be need to spend more money to move into the global arena and viewed according to three basic retrain workers and teach leave less-skilled workers by types of jobs: children in public schools, Reich 
AP t-Ile Photo the wayside. • Routine production services, said. Lee lacocca provides an example of a "symbolic analyst", according to Some economists take a which include not only Robert Reich, a Harvard professor. His success demonstrates a trend different view. assembly line workers but also "The question is, are we that rewards problem solvers and manipulators of information, but hurts "You just can't support all employees who spend the day willing as a nation to invest in traditional blue-collar workers in America, says Reich. those (white-collar) jobs in entering computer data such as the productivity of the bottom 
BOSTON (AP) -In today's Their success demonstrates a absence of a strong credit card payments and two-thirds of our work force?" emerging global economy, Lee trend that rewards problem manufacturing sector," said hospital records. Reich said. lacocca, Madonna and Stephen solvers and manipulators of Andrew Sum, director of • In-person services, in which Reich said the first necessary King all share the same job information, while spelling Northeastern University's workers provide services step is to educate the public in title. trouble for traditional blue-Center for Labor Market directly to customers. This how their interests are tied to a 
No, they're not collaborating collar workers in America, says Studies. includes a vast array of jobs, world economy. on a musical thriller about Robert Reich, an economics Using Massachusetts as an from waitresses to retail sales "The failure to understand 
Chrysler; they are what a guru at Harvard's John F. example, Sum said the sharp workers to hospital attendants. the changes, the real picture of Harvard University professor Kennedy School of Government. decline in the state's • Symbolic-analyst services, the new economy, is one of our calls usymbolic analyslc;." To a large extent, this reflects manufacturing sector helped which involve problem solving, biggest impediments," he said. 
Phone crisis: five unused area codes left for North America 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -1970 no one really envisioned 13. More than two dozen states Los Angeles and Hollywood will imported from south of the Hello! Hello?! uArea code crisis" this problem. Now, a lot of have only one area code. become 310. The area north of border where they were used calling. homes have two phone lines In the San Francisco Bay Los Angeles was assigned the for foreign access until a recent 
But don't hang up. There's a and new businesses open and, area, the 415 area code will 818 area code in 1984. Mexico dialing change. solution. of course, all the new technol­split Monday with communities In November 1992, the 714 More area codes are needed 
After California splits the San ogy is taking up the access east of the huge inlet -Oak­area code for Orange County because telephone number du­Franci!;CO Bay area code Mon­lines." land, Berkeley and all of Contra and parts of San Diego County plications are possible after day -the first of three planned Blame it on population growth Costa and Alameda counties -will split. A new 909 area code more than 7 million seven-digit divisions in the state's near fu­and 30 million Californians' becoming 510, nicknamed the will cover western and central combinations are assigned to ture -only five unused area love affairs with the telephone, "five-and-dime." The last 415 Riverside County, San each one, and 30 percent are codes will be left for the rest of facsimile machines, pagers and split came in 1959 when 408 Bernardino County and eastern reserved for emergencies. North America. computers that have voracious was created for the San Jose Los Angeles County, Pacific Bell The current three-digit area 
However, a revised area code appetites for telephone access area. says. code system Is limited because system adding 640 authorized lines. Pacific Bell is allowing a five­Elsewhere in the nation, they all must have a middle three-digit area codes to the "People have phones at home, month grace period through Maryland will split down the digit of 0 or 1 to tell computer existing 152 is due in mid-1995, at the office, in their car and Jan. 26 for people to get used to middle with the western half software a call is long distance. just in time to save the day. they carry them around now," the change so both 510 and 415 keeping 301 and the Baltimore Under the new Bellcore-pro­
"We do have a short-term said Pacific Bell's Paul Hirsch, area codes will get through. A area becoming 410. posed system, middle digits of 2 area code crisis because we're who oversees California's area recording will warn callers that And in New York City, the through 9 could be used. running out, but we're pre­code changes. "They can't get the old code's time is up. telephone company expects to Telecommunications experts pared for change," said Cynthia away from them." On Nov. 2 in Southern Cali­create a 917 area code some­say minimal technological Lucenius, media relations man­California, which got Its first fornia, the 213 area code will time in 1993 to overlap some changes are needed if all tele­ager for Bellcore, which assists area code for Los Angeles -split for the third time, making parts of Manhattan, now 212. phone companies use the 1-plus the nation's seven regional 213-in 1947, has a record 10 Los Angeles the only city with Bellcore says the five unused dialing system already required telephone companies. area codes but soon will break three area codes. Areas to the area codes are 210, 810, 910, in most areas; a 1 is dialed be­
"The thing is, in 1960 or even the mark again with a total of south and west of downtown 706 and 905, the last two just fore all long distance calls. 
Ford leads industry in alternative fuel vehicles 
Special to The Observer these, from the same tank, and wlthou t the driver taking any
Ford currently leads the special action. automotive industry in Alterna­Starting in late 1992, Ford tive Fuel Vehicles. The com­
will build an international pany has been working on al­demonstration fleet of 70-100 ternative sources of energy for electric vehicles. Electricity is a vehicles for more than 30 promising technology for future years. vehicle propulsion since the 
uwe are approaching the electric vehicle does not emit limit of what can be accom­hydrocarbons, carbon 
plished In reducing tailpipe monoxide or nitrogen oxide. In emissions from today's fuels," addition, it Is noiseless and the said Helen Petrauskas, Ford power plants generating the 
vice president of Environmental electricity can use a wide vari­and Safety Engineering. ety of fuels. 
Petrauskas went on to say Passenger cars powered by that the primary alternative fu­Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) els will include reformulated are already on the road. gasoline, natural gas, propane Although the purchase cost of or liquefied petroleum gas, such vehicles Is higher, the op­methanol and ethanol, and erating cost of these automo­electricity. biles is much lower. 
Ford announced earlier this Further testing time is still year that It will produce a required to assure completenumber of Flexible Fuel Vehi­customer satisfaction, but Al­cles (FFVs) for delivery in 1992. ternative Fuel Vehicles are 
The FFV can burn methanol, nonetheless expected to be in Ford is the industry leader in developing alternative fuel vehicles. Ford Tauruses have been converted to gasoline, or any combination .of , production by the mid-1990s •. -Flexible Fuel Vehicles that use methanol, gasoline, or any combination, from the ~arne· tank.· · · · 





Viewpoint 
page 8 
Monday, September 2, 1991 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
N-• Editor •.••.•..••••••..••...•.Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ........••.•..•.. .Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ..••..~. Alissa Murphy Sports Editor .••...•...••... David Dieteman Production Manager .•...•..... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor ......•.•....•••... .John O'Brien Systems Manager .•........•..... Mark Sloan Photo Editor ••.•.•.•.••••.••••••••.•.Eric Bailey OTS Director ••••••••••.•••••.••.•Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor••••..••.•••Emily Willett Controller••••••.•••••.•••••••.Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Student appalled by ticket buyers' garbage 
INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in nearly 80 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries. 
Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce 
the name of the country darkened on the map at the right. 

Landlocked South t~~'
American country which .,.... ) 
is roughly the size of ', i 
California and Texas ~ 1 
r 

combined. ) y 
I I .___~_f__. 
1. 
Adjacent country which had a First Lady who, after her death, became the topic of an American musical. 

2. 
Religion of more than 90% of this nation's population. 

3. 
A type of geological plain comprised of clay silt, sand or gravel, or similar material deposited by running water. 

4. 
Neighboring country, which is the largest 


DJ•JJOfl = J!ZDJfl ·v JDJ•nJJD ·r '!I"'J'D:J uuwoll ., o•J,••IlJv ·1 :uoJmJos in South America. 
The Viewpoint page welcomes your letters and columns on a variety of issues. If your tongue is troubled and you have something to say, simply send your written thoughts to The Observer. Our office is located on the third floor of LaFortune, or send them to: Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
All columns, letters to the editor and cartoons submitted to the Viewpoint department become the property of The Observer. The Observer reserves the right to edit all commentaries submitted. 
Sprinklers keep cement watered 
Dear Editor: 

In conjunction with what columnist Jay Hosler wrote about the proliferation of new cement sidewalks on campus, I must add that all those sprin­klers are doing a fantastic job of keeping them watered. 
Matl Lamberti Grace Hall August 30, 1991 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'They had the best selection . 
They were poisoned with protection. 
There was nothing that they needed, 
nothing left to find...' 
Neil Young 

Submit to: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

Dear Editor: 
Last Friday I went to J.A.C.C. to purchase my football tickets at 11:30 in the morning. By that time, the long line of students that had formed out­side was already gone. However, the space where that line had been was not at all empty. It was completely lit­tered with cushions, bottles, cups, playing cards, newspa­pers, blankets, paper bags, and wrappers. 
I was very surprised and altogether appalled at this 

sight. I couldn't believe that some students had just left all of their trash right there on the sidewalk. 
I'm not writing this letter to condemn students for sleeping out overnight and having a good time while they wait in line. I only want to suggest that those students who left the mess learn to have some re­spect for their own campus and for the earth as a whole. 
Jane E. Smiley Knotl Hall Se tember 1, 1991 



-
Accent 
Monday, September 2, 1991 page 9 
HAY! 
Artist at SMC uses grass 
medimnfor sculpting 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Sane sculptors use metals, clay, and marble. Whatever is used, "meaning can be gained by how sanething makes you feel," said University of Southern Maine's professor of sculpture, Michael Shaughnessy. 
For seven years, Shaughnessy has foWld many meanings in his material of choice: hay. This week he will be comhininz hi..; ia.ltmfs with Saint Mary's 
the artist, assisted by Saint Mary's
art students in a collaborative hay 
students will construct a framework of
sculptw-e. 
wooden 1-by-Zs, to be covered with hay, boWld together with twine.
Shaughnessy's fascination with hay began in graduate school when his The special kind of relationship that
interest turned from painting to 
develops in a colla.boration project suchsculpture. Shaughnessy explained that as this one is satisfying to Shaughnessy.
"all the materials in the world are 
"I take conceptual control over it. Thepossible for sculpture" and he used to students help (rWl warp and weave) and
search feed stores for possiblities. "One 
everything comes together. (The
day I picked up a bail of hay. It was 
students) have insights into other
cheap. For a dollar fifty, I got eighty poWlck of hay." Shaughnessy associated his 
'All the materials 

progressive use of hay with personal relationships. "I kept discovering new in the world are possible for things about it. It's ahnost like knowing sculpture.' saneone. There is an initial attraction that continues to grow. Mine (initial 
aspects of it. Pieces change dramaticallyattrad.ion) was because it was cheap." 
with the help of students," Sha~Since then Shaughnessy discovered the 
said.

"rich associations with hay" that 
A vital aspect of the development of a everyone can relate to because it "has 
project is the interaction between the
been used in every society." 
people involved. "Doing a repetitious activity, it's very physical, a group can
'Pieces change dramatically 
cane together around it," Shaughnessy
with the help of students.' 
explained. There is plenty of time for talking while weaving and the students lean! fran each other.
"Hay is different (from traditional Shaughnessy's hay sculpture is is the old basement gallery which was
Shaughnessy has had about twenty­
sculpting materials) because its scheduled to begin on Sunday, difficult for patrons to locate. All exhibit
five solo exhibitions and fourteen group
associatiOI'lS aren't with art, they're with September 1, and will take several days space is now located on the second, or
exhibitions in the past seven years with
something else, and that makes it a to complete. Media are welcome to main floor of Moreau Hall
"the focus on universities, no com­
pqwerful material because it brings all chronicle or photograph the progression Shaughnessy is pleased with the new
mercial galleries."

those associations with it," Shaughnessy of the construction. location since it "seems like it's in a re­explained. "Those include thftlles of food, spected place rather than in the
This week Shaughnessy is delighted to
bedding and shelter, which recur in the Shaughnessy is also giving lectures on basftllenl"
be at Saint Mary's Hammes Gallery
artist's wods. Tuesday at 9:30 in Moreau Hall and
because of a long family association with
The Maine resident also uses hay as a Thursday at 7:30 in Carrol Auditorium. The exhibits will run from Friday,
the conmunity and his fondness for the
symbol of the peasant and rural working Also opening this year's exhibition September6 through October 4. A public
faculty and students. ''The people here
classes and their inherent tcaditions and season at the Moreau Galleries are reception for the artists will be held on
are wonderful. There are hidden gems
values. photographic works by Sylvia Tacca.ni. Friday, September 6 frcm 7 to 9 p.m. in
with quality wods." 
Both shows are the first to be mounted the gallery space. Admission to both the Be~ a few days before the show, in the newly reconfigured galleries. Gone reception and the exhibitions is free.
The construction of Michael 
Saint Mary's professor proves crocodiles are for the birds 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Zealand examined the parasites male parasite. The disease, which is usually "This was the first time that 
Accent Editor and couldn't figure out what Thus, the specimens were ac­contracted by bathing or one of these schistosomes was 
they were, he sent them to tually two parasites in one, he swimming In Infested water, is found In something other than a 
Platt. For a long time, Platt had said. strangely popular in Hollywood, bird or mammal," Platt said. 
Research by a biology profes­little luck with identifying the Similar parasites found in Platt said. While this discovery links 
sor at Saint Mary's has provided tiny creatures. turtles are crocodiles and birds, the only 
further proof that, in "I spent three or four months hermaphrodotic-they possess "They kill off a lot of soap links to m.ammals It suggests 
evolutionary terms, crocodiles just staring at these things," he both male and female opera characters with It," he are ancient ones, Platt said. It's 
are the nearest living relatives said. "It was very frustrating." reproductive organs. These new said, laughing. "If they want possible that hundreds of mil­
to birds. , The parasites are unlike any parasites were actually a someone to die of an exotic ill­lions of years ago, mammals, 
That's not bad for a guy who Platt had seen before. Until strange variation of a group of ness, they'll have them go to birds and reptiles all may have 
has never even seen the then, most of his work centered parasites, known as Africa and catch it and then descended from some mammal­
crocodiles in question. on flatworm parasites, found in schistosomes, that are common have a long, protracted Illness like reptiles, Platt said. 
Thomas Platt Is an assistant the circulatory system of tur­in birds and mammals. before dying," he said. "Those mammal-like reptiles 
professor of biology at Saint tles. Schistosomes always have While known to attack hu­would have been radically dif­
Mary's whose specialty is in "They were very bizarre," both males and females, Platt mans, schistosomes are also ferent than anything that would 
parasitology (the study of par­Platt said. said. These new schistosomes common in birds, Platt said. By be around today," he said. "It's 
asitic organisms). lie made the One day, Platt noticed a fea­are the first known members of discovering schistosomes in a very distant relative." 
discovery by examining para­ture he had overlooked. Upon the species to have the female crocodiles (rather than types of The reason this discovery is 
sites that were found In examination of the parasite, he totally Inside the male, Platt parasites common in other rep­important to Platt Is that it fills 
Australian freshwater discovered that what everyone said. tiles), Platt and his colleagues a gap In the evolutionary puz­
crocodiles In the 1970s and thought to be one Schistosomes are best known added more proof that zle, he said. 
1980s by two Australian veteri­hermaphrodotic parasite was for causing schistosomiasis, a crocodiles actually evolved from "This Is one more small piece 
narians. actually a female parasite to­parasitic disease common in the same ancestors as of evidence that supports the 
After a researcher In New tally imbedded in the body of a tropical regions of the world. birds-not other reptiles. theory of evolution," he said. 



The Observer Monday, September 2, 1991
page 10 

robberies and incidents of ha­Chris and Alicia," B:rown said.-Witnesses #11-the cop was screaming Volleyball
against the wall of Apartment 

rassment in the neighborhoods "They're our co-captains and that the kid wasn't moving fast surrounding Notre Dame, we need them to play well." 
continued from page 16 
everyone out. He had to be loud, and people got out pretty quickly. Demetrius was in and out. I don't know if he was inside when the cops came, but he never came out by me. A lot of people left by the back door." 
Another student who spoke on condition of anonymity indi­cated that DuBose and Mirer did not arrive at the party until very near the time of the police raid. 
Yet another student-Terry Coyne-introduced himself by name and related scenes of al­leged police brutality. 
"'There were a lot of people in the parking lot," said Coyne, "and the police told us to move it inside. So people started fil­tering out into the back yard, but it wasn't loud or out of control. In fact, it was pretty boring and we were going to leave when the place was flooded with police officers. They were physically and ver­bally abusive and threate~. I saw one officer throw a kid enough. 
"I was scared that the cop would start hitting me, and I wouldn't be surprised if they did start beating people with nightsticks. I saw another guy walking along the fence, on his way out, when a policeman came after him, yelling. The kid said 'I'm leaving,' but the cop cornered him agajnst the fence and yelled at him. The kid had nowhere to go because the offi­cerwas in his way. 
"The cop hit the kid in the back of the head, and the kid's head dropped," continued Coyne. "After he hit the kid, the cop said 'Fine, you're coming with me' and handcuffed him. The kid did absolutely nothing wrong. I saw this whole thing and yelled at the cop, but my friend said that we'd better get out of there, because we didn't want to get arrested. I called the ACLU office in Indianapolis, and I went to the South Bend Tribune as well as WNDU-TV. I'm willing to testify to this in a court of law." 
In light of recent beatings, 

Coyne expressed great surprise at the activities of the South Bend Polia! Departmenl 
''1bere seems to be a pattern of abuse," said Coyne. "A friend of mine, who is also a fonner baseball player, was arrested for yelling at a police officer while his friends were being beaten up in front of the police officers. This happened around the Notre Dame Apartments, which I think are used for gov­ernment housing now. My friend spent the night in jail for swearing at the police." 
A group of about 30 residents from Cavanaugh Hall was directed away from the apartment complex by police officers. 
"They just told us all to leave," said one student, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "They just kind of pointed, and we followed the aowd. We walked all the way to Bridget McGuire's before our ride found us. They [the police] didn't seem too concerned with our safety. They just told us to leave." 
continued from page 16 

did a great job. That goes to show just what kind of com­petitor she is. She wanted the ball." 
"Everyone just has good days," Turner said. "The pass was there, the set was perfect, and there was nothing I could do besides put it down." 
Game five was contested us­ing a new fonnat called rally scoring. Points were won on ev­ery serve rather than the con­ventional rule that only the serving team can score points. 
This turned out to be good for both teams, as neither could hold serve early in the decisive game. Purdue ran off three straight points to grab the momentum and an 8-5 lead, but behind Choquette and Turner, the Irish rallied back. 
"That's what we need from 
Sophomore Molly Stark. and junior Marilyn Cragin also played key roles in the fifth game. Stark's kill stopped the Boilermaker run, and Cragin and Turner each had two big kills down the stretch to seal the victory. 
"I really believed that we could beat Purdue, and thought it would be five games," Brown said. "It's got to do a lot for the team confi­dence-wise, and in just believing in thEUlSelves. 
"I thought that might be one of the biggest hurdles coming into this job, getting the team to believe that we're good and believe in ourselves, and that we can canpete with anyone. To start off on a ~note, beating a Big 10 school, that's got to be a plus for us and has to help towards our quest for an NCAA bid." 

THINK GLOBALLY, ACT LOCALLY. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m at the Notre Dame office, 3t4 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Cemer. Deadline for next-day classrtieds is 3p.m All classdieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  FUTONS ETC.  GRAD STUDENTS, MBA'S, LAW,  Please help. Need 2 tickets  $$$$  
NOTICES  KITCHEN, PHONE, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, UTILITIES  Best Prices! From Your Touch-Tone Phone Call  ANYONE: '87 ALUM SEEKS YOUR FOOTBALL TIX (OR TICKET  to IU game. GA or student or both. Call Ann 4011.  Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix.  
INCLUDED. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS.  1-800-484-1 060  APPLICATION!) I'LL MAKE IT  Call Tom x1563  
272-0615.  When You Hear a Tone, Oial1576  WORTH YOUR WHILE.$$$  I NEED GA TIX: 4 INDIANA; 6  
USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIIII  WE SHIP  THANK YOU. CALL COLLEEN AT  MICHIGAN STATE. DAVE x283­ Irs a new year and I've plenty of  
25% off list price  STUDENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO  A Vosidus Production  256-5099 AND LEAVE A  1545  time to type. Too bad I'm the only  
10-5:30 everyday  NO. Efficiencies & one-bdrm.  MESSAGE PLEASE.  one with a story. Don't let me down  
Pandora's Books corner of NO  Utilities paid. Call255-9664.  Used Computers:  I NEED 3 GA TIX FOR USC. CALL  again.  
ave & Howard  Mac Plusi2ddipr  NO GRAD NEEDS TWO PITI  ANNA x284-5432.  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Apple Jigs w!Works  TICKETS. CALL 4034.  Happy birthday Joe Roberts.  
219-291-7153  Laptop 386 wihd  
OFF CAMPUS IH FOOTBALL  Matt (x1778) or John (277-2176  Need 2 Indiana GA's. Will pay  I'M BUYING I.U. STUD. TIX Call  ATIENTION: STUDENTS!  
SIGNUP CALL STEVE 233-3882  RENT ME  big bucks!! II Call Bill #3718.  John x3660  $5.50 HAIRCUTS  
ATIENTION  
Don't miss Chicago's favorite  Spacious 5 bedroom house in safe  1 Round-trip Ticket O'Hare- I need 1 Mich St GA  NEEDED DESPERATELY:  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
Irish rockers...THE DROVERS.  area. Beach V-ball court, private  Phoenix for Oct19-26 (Break)  Call Bill x4274  STUDENT TICKET  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
Live in concert...Thurs.,  parking lot. Close to campus. Semi- Low price of $150.  APPLICATION for recent grad.  233-4767  
Sept. 12 in Theodore's. Tix  furnished.  Call Jon #1854.  $$$ Wanted: Student Ticket  Make lots of$$$! Call x4258.  Walk ins  
only $5.00 in advance at  234-3831 or 288-5653.  Application  
LaFortune Box Office.  For Sale: New, Never used: Desk  Please Call Matt at 411 0  Desperately seeking USC or Tenn.  THINK GLOBALLY,  
2 BDRMS, $170/MO., $200/MO.  Lamp $12, Cube Refrig. $85,  GA's. Brian x3883  ACT LOCALLY.  
NEED A JOB?  WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL  Record player $35. Ph 288-7182  #@%·1=$ Need Indiana GA tix:  
287-2159.  eves.  steve@2447  Need 2 IU GA's for family  Want to learn to dance?!  
Good pay, on campus. Doesn't  visit. Call Mick at #2133  Call DANCE DIMENSIONS...  
cut into study time! Chicago  4 or 5 Bedrm furnished house,  NEED 2 GA'S TO ALL HOME  new dance studio  
Trib needs carriers, esp  washer/dryer, sand volleyball, 119  TICKETS  GAMES, ESPECIALLY INDIANA  downtown Mishawaka.  
women. Call Kathy X4035  N. St. Peter. 233-9947.  CALL GREG AT x2092  HAVE TICKETS TO ALL GAMES. NEED TO TRADE FOR USC. CALL  Classes in tap, jazz, ballroom. Call 255-4611 .  
LOST/FOUNDI  I ROOM FOR RENT-LARGE HOME 2.5 BLKS FROM NO, $290 MO. UTIL.INCL. 234-0873. B & B available near NO on football  I NEED GA OR STO TIXS ALL HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306 1 TICKET NEEDED FOR  PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE $$$SELL ME YOUR MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS. $$$  MIKE POHLEN AT 800-444-3810. LET ME BUY YOUR STUDENT TICKET BOOK. CALL JIM AT  AUDITIONS!!! AUDITlONS!!! The London Program's "A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM"  
LOST: GOLD 1.0. BRACELET  weekends. 271-0989.  INDIANA GAME. CALL  I would like to buy 2 GA's  271-8311 AND LET'S MAKE A  September 10 6:30-9:00  
REWARD;SENTIMENTAL VALUE  COLLEEN AT 4244.  DEAL.$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  September 11 6:30-9:00  
CALL LISA 4838 #352 SIEGFRIE D House for rent, one block from NO,  Call Julie at x1342  USC GA's WANTED ! I !  in THEODORE'S  
professors, staff, or graduates, 650 month, 234-1714  WANTED: SENIOR TICKET  NEED TENNESSEE GA TIX.  Dad's dying to see NO play  Any questions, time conflicts,  
APPLICATION. YOU WILL PROFIT  Please help east coast double  before I graduate.  Call Kris x1295 

WANTED 

Room for rent in new home, located in Granger, 7 minutes from campus. $350 per month, 
Downtown book warehouse now male graduate student hiring. Send name, add., phone#, preferred. Please call Andy yr./major, or leave message at 271­hours-/days available to: 8162. 
P. 0. Box 4621 , South Bend IN 46624 Student rentals now available. Ideal 
for graduate students with family. BABYSITIER NEEDED N.D. Cal1232-5411 or 234-0379. HOME GAMES-OTHER MISC. TIMES AVAILABLE. $4+/HR. 
PLEASE CALL x4227 
Will trade 4 great Mich St. G.A.'s for 4 USC G.A's. #1752 
Got INDIANA GA TIX? I'm ready to pay $$$ call Andy x1224 
........I HAVE GA's."'"'" 4 Navy, 2 USC, 2 PITI Call Mike at 1002 or leave message to make offer. 
N.D.S.P. We're back 
hey nil 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
Hey Nicole, roomie, just a short note to let you know that your the greatest, Ann 

$80. CALL 289-4914. 
NEEDED BAD: 2 or 4 GA's for the Indiana game. Will pay top dollar Ill Call #3372 ask for Greg. 
MUST HAVE INDIANA TIX!!!I Call Steve x2366 
I NEED 2 IU TIX BADLY CALL BILL -4186 
domer bring his family to an Irish victory. Call Sam at (201) 334-3804. 
NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN. GA. CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR 
PURCHASE. CALL COLLECT 1­612-227-7577. 
WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY NO HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON. 
234-2354. Will trade 2 Mich St. GAs for 2 IU NOTRE DAME
FOR SALE 

GAs. Bill x4108 TICKETS WANTED 
WANTED BIKE 271-1371 XMAS in September!! "You'd better CaiiJIM 2285 I need l.U. & P.U. TIX An honest fan with a large family is watch out..." Only 5 days 'til 
Couch and furniture for sale. Jason x2030 NOTRE DAME TICKETS looking for GAs to all games. We Christmas. My family has disowned me -287-0060 FOR SALE. use all tickets we buy. Jeff 272 Help me get back in their good Need 2 Mich. St. GA's CALL 271-1371. 9602 Interested in being a OJ?II graces. Please sell me a few GA's PROFESSIONALLY BUILT Call Mike at #1694 Student Activities is for USC. Karen x3978 STUDENT LOFT $50. IU TICKETS? I need them in a big Need 6 MSU GA's. Mike x1630 accepting applications for 
REFRIGERATOR $40. NEED 1 GA TIX FOR INDIANA way. Call 283-4098. DJs for Theodore's. Pick up 289-8404. GAME. CALL SHANE X1655 need 2 mich. st. and 1 Ind. tix. call x applications at 315 LaFortune. NEEDED: 2322-mike. 
Peavey 130 watt bass amp $275 Football Tickets For Salellll 2 GA's lor IU game LOST TO
FOR RENT 

x1857 Call4233. call 272-8735 I NEED GA'S FOR ALL HOME GRADUATION ...9uitarists1bassist 
ask for Shannon AND AWAY GAMESII from BONE FOREST. We have a 2 TEN SPEED BIKES.272-6306 4 season ftbl. tix 4 sale. gig, now all we need is a band. Call 
HOME AWAY FROM HOME I 272-7034 after 6 pm. Need GAs for Indiana and CALL JOE Bryan x3348 or Chris 272-3739. 2 ROOMS TO RENT. $200/MO., FOR SALE-Allwknd. Michigan St. Money no object. Call X1762 $200 DEP. KITCHEN. LAUNDRY 83 TOYOTA COROLLA Ron x2157 Karmeeleyah, FACILITIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. new breaks, transmission, Need GAs -6 USC & 2 MSU Jeff I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY We both know that the love hasn't 232-2794. and shocks. 85,000 miles. x3301 Help a recent NO Alum show off his lost it's shine. So, let's make it last 
Call 233-2588. new plaid pants ... sell me your CALL TOM FOREVER! 
Need TWO INDIANA GAs. Mich. State tix. X1762 Lea VCR, TV Rentals: Selling golf clubs: 3-9 irons and 1&3 Call Lynn at x4940. Call Jen x4717 Rent a 19" color lV, two semesters woods. Luis: 273-1528 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
only $99.95. NEEDED: 7 IU tix. Call Ann x2808. NEEDED: Two GA tickets to Pitt 
PERSONALS
13" color TV, two semesters only NICE FAMILY HOME, 4 BDRMS., game. Parents will pay well I Call Need 2 GA's for Stanford. 
$69.95. 2-1/2 BATHS, FINISHED NEEDED: 2 Tenn. tix. Angela Tim@X4063 Please allow my parents to see their 
VCR, two semesters, $99.95. BASEMENT, POOL & GAZEBO, x2796 only NO game. 
For fast free delivery, call SAUNA, LOTS OF PRIVACY ON NEED 1 St. TX. for MICH St. I am the Lizard King and I can do Call Ann at x4970. 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS LARGE LOT, $129,900. CALL 272-Needed: 4 GAs for Mich. St. CAN TRADE 1 PITI OR anything. 
272-5959. 4109. Call David at 277-7767 PURCHASE. Kathy x3958 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 



Monday, September 2, 1991 
page 11

SCOREBOARD 

NFL STANDINGS BASEBALL STANDINGS 
All Times EDT AMERICAN CONFERENCE All Times EDT 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Eaat &at Dlvlalon w L T Pd. w L Pd. CE BuHalo 1 0 0 1.000 73 .553
Toronto 59 New England 1 0 0 1.000 Detron 70 61 .534 2 112 
N.Y. Jets 1 0 0 1.000 Boston 66 63 .512 5 112 Indianapolis 0 1 0 .000 Milwaukee 63 67 .485 9 Miami 0 1 0 .000 New York 59 70 .457 12 112 Central BMimore 53 77 .408 19 Houston 1 0 0 1.000 Cleveland 43 87 .33t 29 Pittsburgh 1 0 0 1.000 
w..t Dlvlalon Cincinnati 0 1 0 .000 w L Pd. CE Cleveland 0 1 0 .000 Minnesota 79 53 .598 w..t 8
Oakland 71 61 .638 Chicago .534
Denver 1 0 0 1.000 70 61 8 1/2 Kansas Ctty 1 0 0 1.000 Texas 68 61 .527 9112 LA Aalders 0 1 0 .000 Kansas Cny 67 62 .519 10 112 San Diego 0 1 0 .000 Seanle 67 63 .515 11 
Seanle 0 1 0 .000 California 63 67 .485 15 
Saturday'• Gamea Eaet NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
Toronto 5, New York 0 w L T Pd. 
Oakland 9, DlllroM 8, 10 Innings Dallas 1 0 0 1.000 
Chicago 10, Cleveland 5 Phlladephla 1 0 0 1.000 Milwaukee 8, Calllomla 2 Phoenix 1 0 M lnnesota 5, B&nlmore 2
0 1.000 

Washington 1 0 Kansas CMy 3, Texas 2 
0 1.000 N.Y. Giants 0 0 0 .000 
Boston 4, Seanle 1 

Central Chicago 1 0 0 1.000 Sunday'• Game• Detron 0 1 0 .000 
Late Game Not Included Green Bay 0 0 New York 4, Toronto 2 
1 .000 

Minnesota 0 0 Minnesota 14, Banlmore 3 
1 .000 Ta"1)8 Bay 0 1 0 .000 Chicago 6, Cleveland 1 w..t Milwaukee 3, Cal~omla 1 New Orleans 1 0 Texas 6, Kansas City 4 
0 1.000 San Francisco 0 0 0 .000 
Oetro\1 5, Oakland 2 Atlanta Boston at Seanle (n)
0 1 0 000 LA Rams 0 1 0 .000 
All Times EDT

Sunday'• Gamea 
NATIONAL LEAGUE

Late Games Not lnduded 
&at Dlvlalon 

Kansas Cny 14, Atlanta 3 
w L Pd. CE
New Orleans 27, Seanle 24 
Pittsburgh 77 51 .602
New York Jets 16, Tarrpa Bay 13 
St. Louis 70 59 .543 7 112
Dallas 26, Cleveland 14 
Chicago 65 65 .500 13 
Philadelphia 20, Green Bay 3 
New York 64 66 .492 14 
Phoenix 24, Loo; Angeles Rams 14 
Philadelphia 83 67 .485 15 
Houston 47, Los Angeles Raiders 17 
Montreal 53 76 .411 24 112 
BuHalo 35, Mlaml31 
Weal Dlvlalon 

Chicago 10, Minnesota 6 
w L Pd. CE
New England 16, Indianapolis 7 
Atlanta 72 58 .554
PMtsburgh 26, San Diego 20 
Los Angeles 72 58 .654
Denver 45, Clnclnnall14 
Cincinnati 64 66 .492 8
Washington 45, Detroit 0 
San Diego 63 67 .485 9
Monday'• Game 
San Francisco 62 68 .477 10
San Francisco at New York Giants, 9 p.m. 
Houston 53 77 .408 19 
Saturday'• Game• San Frandsco 6, St. Louis 1 New York 8, Cindnnatl7, 10 Innings

TRANSACTIONS Philadelphia 5, Atlanta 0 Montreal 5, Houston 4, 10 Innings Pittsburgh 3, San Diego 2, 12 Innings Los Angeles 3, Chicago 2 
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Recalled Roberto Sunday'• Game• pitcher, from Birmingham of the Late Game Not Included League. Optioned Brian Drahman. Montreal 6, Houston 1 pitcher, to Vancouver of the Padfic Coast League. Philadelphia 5, Atlanta 4, 10 Innings MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Activated Jim New York 9, Clndnnall4 
from the 1 5-day disabled list. Los Angeles 12, Chicago 3 Placed Mike Ignasiak, pitcher, on the 15·day St. Louis 14, San Francisco 1 disabled list. Pittsburgh at San Diego (n)
SOMETIMES YOU GOTTA SA 
MINNESOTA TWINS-Optioned Allan Anderson and Tom Edens, pitchers, to Kenosha ol TEXAS RANGERS-Activated Jeff Huson, 
the M ldwest League. Recalled JaNis Brown and Infielder; Rich Gossage, pitcher; John Russell,
~UfMfE[jfj}jj jju u[}={}fE ~rMUurE 
National LeaguePedro Martinez, outfielders; Paul Sorrento, first catcher; and Jack Daugherty, outfielder; from the 
CINCINNATI REDS-Activated Chrla
baseman; Gary Wayne, Denny Neagle, Willie 15·day disabled list. Recalled Barry Manuel Banks and Paul Abbott, pitchers, and Lenny pitcher, lrom Tulsa of the Texas League: 
Hammonds, pncher, from the 30·day disabled lilt. Webster, catcher, from Portland of the Pacific Coast 
Called up Donnie Scon, catcher, from NashviHe ofPurchased the contract of Donald Harris, outfielder, 
MON. RISKY BUSINESS 7:00 PM 
the American Association.
League. from Oklahoma City of the American Association. OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Recalled Lance LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Recalled DennisSent Travis Buckley, pitcher, to the Montreal Expos
Tom Cruise, Rebecca DeMornay, and a wet Porsche 
Cook and John Wetteland, pitchers; Carlos
Blankenship and Scott Hemond, Infielders, from 
to con-plate the Dennis Boyd trade. 
Hernandez. catcher; Eric Karros, llrst baseman;
Tacoma of the Pac~lc Coast League. Optioned
ATTRACTION 9:00 PM 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Recalled Derek Bell and Tom Goodwtn, outfielder, from Albuquerque ofBrad Kommlnsk, outfielder, and Brad Wltmeyer, 
Cory Snyder, Turner Ward, outfielders; Eddie' first basaman, to Tacoma. Activated Willie Wilson, Zosky, shortstop; and Pat Hentgen, pitcher, lrom 
the PacHic Coast League. outfielder, lrom the 15-day disabled list Called up Syracuse of International League and David 
NEW YORK METs-called up Terry Broaa, Kevin Ca"l)bell, Bruce Walton and Joe Slusarskl, 
pitcher, from Williamsport, of the Eastern League.
Weathers and VInce Horsman, pnchers, from pitchers, Dann Howln. outfielder, and Vance Law. 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-sent Dave Hollins,Knoxville of the Southern League. Added Bill third baseman, and Von Hayes, outfielder, to the
NO Communication & Theatre 
Infielder, I rom Tacoma. 
Monbouquene to the coaching ataH. 
Scranton·WIIkes-Barre ol the International League
8 

a 8 8 8 8 e e • e • • e e • e • • e •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 8 • • •; • on rehabilitation assignments. Purchased the 
• contrad of CliHord Brantley, pkcher, from Scranton· 
: Wllkes·Barre.
1 The Castle & Co. I 
ST. CARDINALS-Recalled 8 Gilkey, outfielder; Ray Stephens, catcher; and Rod 
-------------------------SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE LOUIS Bernard 
Department of Communication, Dance, Theatre 8 
e Brewer, firlt baseman, from Louisville of the
: Men's Hairstyling : 
announces 8 American Association.I I 8 SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Recalled Steve1 YOU CHOOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, 1 THEATRE AND DANCE OPEN HOUSE : Decker, catcher; Mike Benjamin, Infielder; and Gil 
e Heredia, pitcher, !rom Phoenix of the PacHic Coast I WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? I ~~~ -'~ Monday, September 2, 6-8 p.m. : League.
I I 
~.4;: _ Little Theatre Lobby, Moreau Hall : 
FOOTBALL
1 Haircut, Shampoo, Blow Dry & Condition 1 ~ • -'
\ 1 National Football League '-.~~··..-,(-~~~v., AalUso annToluOnciNngS e:: NEW runningORLEANS SAINTS-WaivedSigned Scott Roll,
Buford

Jordan, back.
: Reg. student cut $11.00 : 
linebacker.
01 

PITTSBURGH STEELERS-Walved Terry
Bring in a friend and receive your 1 
,.....fb.>' for .• O'Shea, tight end. Activated Ron Woodaon, 
;;r·· cornerback. your cuts for $9.00 each. I : FRANCISCO Robbie
SAN
Hansel and Gretel 49ERS-Signed
I Keen, punter, to the practice squad. Waived Greg
by Glen A11an Smith, directed by Roberta N. Rude: Joe~son.delenslveend,fromthepractlcaaqued.
I Canadian Football LeagueI Tues. & Wed. Sept. 3-4, 7:30-10:30 p.m. 8•. BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Signed Keith
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
Powe, defenslvll lineman; Nigel Codrington, >Mde 272-0312 277-1691 I O'Laughlin Auditorium : receiver; Sean Millington, running back; and 
Donald Miller, linebacker. Waived Mark Jonea,
I 

For information and audition time call 284-4640. : 
oHenslvellneman.
54533 Terrace Lane e HAMILTON
I TIGER-CATS-Named John1 Gregory head coach. 
8 .
~· ~******************* 
·:.:.. 
.:: Jt Hours: Mon. • Fri. 8:00·5:30 Jt 
,,.. .. 
Jt Sat. 8:00-3:00 Jt 
.. ..
.. ..
.. .. 
'mL:! MAPLE LANE ! : BARBER SHOP: 
. .. .. ­
\:!:::~:! : 
:Jt 2112 South Bend Avenue Jt Jt South Bend, IN 46637 Jt 
.. .. 
: Appointments If Desired : 
···:: 272-6722 :
.. ..
.. ..
.. .. 
..***************** .. 
~--~---~----­
~---------~­
..._ 
I I I 
I 
I 
l 
l I 
I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
page 12 The Observer 
Arrests 
continued from page 16 
can be had if a police officer testifies that a person was, in his opinion, intoxicated. The uncorraborated word of a civilian that a person was in­toxica~d is also aca~ptahle. 
''Still, any testimony must be believed by a jury or judge-they must be oonvinoed beyond any reasonable doubt. Nonnally, misdemeanors will only go before a judge, unless the defendant specifica.Dy asks for a jury trial." 
Yet where Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz is concerned, the matter is closed. 
"'verall the team handled it weD," stated Holtz. "Life is fuD of distndions. AD we can do il aca~pt the situation and nm the program as best as we possibly can. What's happened over the last 48 hours doesn't have any­thing to do with our being pre­pared for the opening ball­game. This is a closed matter as far as I'm conce~ned unless some information comes out that I'm not aware of now. 
"I truly believe that this situa­tion was just the ~ people in the~ place at the WI"'O'lJ! time. Going to parties is just 

Cunningham out for Eagles, McMahon brilliant in relief 
(AP)-Randa.D C1mningbam and Dave Krieg are gone, and Bobby Hebert and Jim McMahon are back. 
Cunningham, the Eagles' happy-footed passer, was car­ried off early in the second quarter Sunday with torn liga­ments in his left knee. McMahon, who enjoyed his greatest days as the leader of the Bears, stepped in to throw for two TDs as the Eagles beat the Packers 20-3. 

Krieg broke the thumb on his passing hand, forcing Jeff Kemp to s~p in. While Kemp performed well, he couldn't overcx:me Hebert, who threw a TD pass with 1:11 to play that gave the Saints a 27-2-4 victory over the Seahawks. It was Hebert's first outing following a one-year contract holdout. 
Cunningham was ca~d off the field after the first play of the second quarter. A prelimi­nary diagnosis said he tore two ligaments in his left knee and could miss the season. More ~ts were scheduled Monday. 
A preliminary diagnosis by team physician Vincent DiStefano revealed that Cwmingbam had torn the me­dial collateral and posterior crucia~ ligaments of his left knee. 


when I was in college I looked forward to seeingmy friends." 
Holtz went on to rule out the possibility that his players had beensingled out by the police. 
'1 don't think that they were singled out," said Holtz. "It's hard to be a policeman. I have too much respect to believe that the police would single ~hem out. There were circwnstatnces to Demetrius being where he was and Rick being where he was, and the policemen don't always know that. I talked to the man who called the police and he said there was no disturbance, no rowdiness-no reason to call the police. But he had received a mandate from the owner of the complex to disburse the crowdif it got too large." 

The incident is still open, however, where the Notre Dame Office of Student Affairs and South Bend Police Department are concerned. Disciplinary action on the part
Demetrius DuBose of the Univeristy, in li,ght of the fact that DuBose is a minor, 
one of those things. Everyb though his conswnption of al­
is gone for the swmner, they cohol has not been proven, re­
cane back. and they've been in mains viable. Legal action on 
school two or three days, so ev­civil charges of public intoxica­
erybody gets together on the tion and disorderly conduct 
weekend. You look forward to may also be forthcaning. 
seeing the friends you haven't Rene Ferran contributed to 
seen in a long time. I know thisrepa1. 
Monday, September 2, 1991 


ND/SMC JUNIORS 
Join your classmates for a 
CRUISE ON LAKE MICHIGAN 
Wednesday Night 
$25 tickets are available now from 3-5 pm at the class office, 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
-Coach transportation to Chicago -Three hours on the high seas of Lake Michigan -Food, drinks, dancing, and fun. 
Questions? Call239-5117 


Monday, September 2, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Indiana Code-Title 7.1 Alcoholic Beverages 
7.1-5-1-3 Public Intoxication prohibited Sec. 3. Public Intoxication Prohibited. Ills a Class Bmisdemeanor for a person to be In a public place or a place of public resort in a state of Intoxication. Notes of Decisions 
1. 
Public place If a person is found in a state of intoxication at a social party held at the residence of another, he Is not thereby rendered liable to prosecution for being found intoxicated In a public place. State v. Sowers, 52 Ind. 311. Enclosed hallway and stairway areas of apartment house were not "public place or place of public resort" within context of this section. State v. Culp, App. 1982, 433 N.E.2d 823, transfer denied 446 N.E.2d969. Private residence, Including private grounds directly outside of it, is not ·public place or place of public resort" within ambit of this section. ld. 

2. 
Inference of intoxication Deputy marshal's perception of odor of alcohol and defendant's admission, during routine traffic check, that he had recently consumed some beer were Insufficient to cause deputy to reasonably infer that defendant was "Intoxicated" and In violation of public Intoxication statute [this section). Irwin v. State, App. 1978, 383 N.E.2d 1086. 


7. 
Evidence-In general In prosecution for public drunkenness. proof of the place in question may be made by either direct or circumstantial evidence. Wilhite v. State, 1947, 71 N.E.2d 925, 225 Ind. 45. In prosecution for public drunkenness, the credibility of the witnesses and the weight of the evidence were solely for trial court to determine. ld. 

8. 
-Weight and sufficiency of evidence In prosecution for drunkenness "in the Monrovia school gymnasium·, testimony by three witnesses that they saw the defendant at the entrance or at the door of the gymnasium but not inside, and testimony of another witness that she saw the defendant"in the door", sustained conviction. Wilhite v. State, 1947, 71 N.E.2d 925, 2251nd. 45. 


Soutoe: WMI"I AnnOialed Indiana Code, counMy of NO Law School 

WHAT IF YOU 
DON'T GET 
INTO THE SCHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure, lhereareolher schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help 
students raise their scores and their chances of being admitted into their first·choice schools. Fact is, noone has helped students score higher! 

Police 
oontinued from page 16 
With the crt!dibility of the po­lice under attack for the public intoxication charge, it would seem that the disorderly con­duct charge will also fall by the wayside. If they can't even prove that the pair was drunk., how can the police even hope to make the disorderly conduct charge stick? 
Perhaps the two were in the wrong place at the wrong time-namely a party. But re­member also that these are two college students, hanging out with s<Dle friends at a party on a Friday night, with no pra.ct.ioe scheduled for the following day. No fighting, no charges of sex­ual abuse. Just chillin' out with S<Dle friends. 
In a situation involving prominent persons, the police must realize that their actions will be scrutinized, and so must have insurmountable evidence that the people involved are guilty. In this case, it appears that the polioe don't have that proof that Rick Mirer and DEmetrius DuBose were intoxi­cated and disorderly. And sinoe they were two of only three ar­rested, perhaps the police should be somewhat more le­nient. 
These are not problem play­ers. DuBose does community service-not because anyone makes him, but because he wants to. Rick Mirer doesn't 
chafe at being a role model. Athletic director Dick Rosenthal supported the players, saying they have no history of disciplinary problems. 
Maybe a compromise could be reached. If the police drop the charges, it wouldn't be too 
SPOR1S BRIEFS 
IThe Observer accepts sports briefs in writing at The Observer office on the third floor of LaForiWle fran 9:00 a.m. Wltil 4:30p.m.. Be sure to include date, place, time and number of days the brief is to rWl. The Observer reserves the right to edit all briefs. 
IFootball ticket sales are today at 9 a.m. for the Freshman Class. Sales will rWl W1til6 p.m. Students are reminded to bring their application, student ID. and remittance to Gate 10 of the JACC. Amaximum of four applications and ID.'s are to be brou.dlt by one individual. A chart showing all sales dates appears on today's back page. 
IIMandatory lacrosse meeting for anyone interested in playing for the varsity squad Monday, September 2 at 5 p.m. in the Loftus Center. Any questions, call Kevin Corrigan at 239-5108. 
IAII wrestlers and anyone interested in wrestling must attend a eeting on Tuesday, September 3, at 4:00 p.m. at the ACC auditorium. 
lOft campus lnterhall football players can sign up by calling Steve at 233-3882. 
INovlce rowing c;:oaches are needed for the 1991-92 season. All interested parties should contact Pete at 271-8466. There will be a general meeting for anyone interested in rowing novice for the 91-92 season on Friday at 7:00p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. 
1The lottery for Michigan and Purdue student tickets will be conducted by the Student Union Board, not Student Activities as reported in the August 28 and 29 issues of 1be Observer. 1be 
Observerregrets the error. 
IThe Notre Dame varsity hockey team will print the ND hockey logo on any light colored t-shirts, etc. at student activities night onSeptember3rd from 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. 
IThe Notre Dame Rowing Club will ha.ve a general meeting for all returning oarsmen and experienced transfers to cover practice, insurance fonns, and activities night. The meeting will be held tomgb.t at 7:00p.m. in room 118 Nieuwland. 
IAnyone Interested In playing off campu. interhall soccer players can call Paul or Rob at 277-5329. Transfers are very el.cane. 
much of a stram for the players credence for only one to do a couple of community reason-at heart, Rick Mirer service spots. and Demetrius DuBose are 
Community-service spots, in good people. Not even flimsy the fonn of stay-in-sdtool talks charges leveled by the South to high schoolers, would carry Bend police can change that. 
you. 

RECREATIONAL SPORTS 
UNIVERSITY OF NarRE DAME 
ENTER NOW 
CAMPUS (OPEN TO ALL N.D. STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF) 
16" SOFTBALL CO-REC SOFTBALL 
GRAD. STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF ONLY 
TOUCH FOOTBALL TENNIS SINGLES-.MEN AND WOMEN TENNIS MIXED DOUBLES 
NOTREDAMEUNDERGRADUATESTUDENTSONLY 
FOOTBALL FOR MEN AND WOMEN TENNIS SINGLES-MEN AND WOMEN TENNIS MIXED DOUBLES FRESHMAN SWIM MEET 
ENTRY DEADLINE: SEPTEMBER 4 



----------.,­
~-~­

page 14 The Observer Monday, September 2, 1991 
RecSports/NVA holds sixth annual biathlon at lakes 
Capriati into US Open quarters vs. Sabatini 
NEW YORK (AP) Jennifer Capriati's most excellent adventure, a race against time and history by the youngest dudette in tennis,~ taking her into the 
U.S. Open quarterfinals for a supreme showdown with defending champ Gabriela Sabatini. 
Capriati ~like, y'know, no bogus fighter on the court, and she proved it most definitely in a 52-minute, 6­1, 6-.2 ranp Sunday over Jo Durie, a durable Brit more than twice her age. 

It's not just anotherwayfor you
to spendyour money. It's away to help you save it. 
Now, get the Card and get Stu~ent Privileg~s. Special savtngs created JUSt for you. Only from American Express. 
Ifyou think the American Express® Card is simply another way to buy things, we'd like to share some valuable news with you: Since you're a student, the Card can actually help you save. 
Become a Student Cardmember today, and you'll automatically get American Express® Student Privileges,w our newly expanded package of outstanding savings and special offers. All designed just for you-with more of what you need, for more value from the money you spend. 
Jlllr:tir"--distance company. 
Continental • 
3 ROUNDTRIPS ON CONTINENTAL AIRLINES-AT APRICE THAT REALLY MAKES FLYING AFFORDABLE 
Only Student Cardmembers can enjoy this great deal on Continental Airlines: three roundtrip flights for just $129 or $189 each-depending on where you're going~ What's more, these certificates are good any­where Continental Airlines flies in the 48 contiguous states. 
PLUS, SAVINGS ON CLOTHES, FOOD, MUSIC ... AND MORE 
Student Privileges Value Certificates give you the savingsyou need on the things you want-a sure way to make the most of 


Use your certificates to visit friends at other schools, see your family back home or enjoy yourself during a vacation. And the best part: 
Each certificate could save you as much as $250 Ol'er regular Continental Airlinesfares on a coast-to-coast trzp. 
OUR NEWEST ADVANTAGE: UP TO 30 MINUTES'' OF FREE MCI LONG-DISTANCE CALLING EVERY MONTH FOR AYEAR 
also help you save on your long­For just $55 ayear, the Card gives you all distance calls. In total, you these savings, as well as all the traditional could saue more than $44 benefits of Card membership-like when you enroll and use the personal attention you can get the American Express 24 hours a day from our Customer Card as a calling card. Service representatives. And you don't even have to And because.you settle your account in 
Talk about value. Now the Card can 
change your current long· MlCJ ! 
a college budget. This year alone, Student Card members have saved at Pizzeria Uno, Eddie Bauer, MTV and ArtCarved class rings, among others. 
You'll find your certificates in each issue of ,.,.­our exclusive student magazine, American Express® Card CONNECTIONS-where you'll also find valuable ideas and information about college life today. 
AGOOD INVESTMENT, AGREAT VALUE 
full each month, you won't pay any finance charges-which can save you even more. 
All of which goes to show that the American Express Card is an exceptional value. Because while there are many ways for you to spend your money, there are few 
TRAVEL that help you save it. RELATED Apply today. SERVICES 
An Amertean Express company 

•To be eligible, you must be approved by December 31, 1991. "A credit of up to 13.70 for calls will appear on each billing statement for 12 months after enrollment. 13.70 is equal to the charges for a domestic 30~minute night/weekend MCI Card Compatibility call and appropriate surcharges. You must enroll for this service by 
December 31, 1991. © 1991 Amer1can Express Travel Related Services Company. Inc. 
By DAN MCKENNA Sports Writer 
On Saturday, Notre Dame students and faculty tested their endurance as they com­peted in the Sixth Annual Biathlon, sponsored by Rec SporisiNVA. 
The canpetit.ion consisted of a half-mile swim across Saint Joseph's Lake followed by a two-mile run around both Saint Joseph's and Saint Mary's lake. The race was won by the men's doubles team of Mike Keeley and Jim Doran in a time of .2.2:.28. 
"I was swimming as hard as I could because I knew I didn't 

have to run," Keeley said, who was the first person out of the water with a time of 9:0.2. "Going into the race I thought we had a real good chance (to win), but nothing was for sure since we were going up against good swimmers." 
Varsity swimmers canpeted in the event for both physical and social reasons, as the upcoming swim season 1s steadily approaching. 
"I want to see how good a shape I'm in to prepare me for the season," said senior Roger Rand. "It's also the first chance for us to get out with all of the freshmen and have sane fun." 


Non-varsity athletes were welcome to join the field, and some of them had very in­teresting motives. 
"My girlfriend decided she wanted to try this," senior Brent Procida said. "I told her that I could beat her so she conned me into it." Procida's girlfriend beat him by fifteen minutes. 
Competition was split into varsity and non-varsity athletes with categories for singles and doubles. Doubles were teams which consisted of one swinmer and one runner, who tagged once the swimmer left the water. 
First place winners in each category were as follows, men's singles: varsity-Kevin Scott (.2.2:43) and non-varsity-Todd Rambasek (.24:17); women's singles: varsity-Angie Roby (.24:.26) and non-varsity-Cindy Chan (.28:51); men's doubles: varsity ,-K eeley/Doran; women's doubles: varsity-Katie AndrewSIBecky Wood (.23:18); and mixed doubles-non-varsity, Rick NettlestL~ Murdock (.26:.26). 
''1bis ~ one of the play events we do every year," swimming coach Tim Welsh said. "It's just for fun, and I'm sure we'D be out here again next year." 
Get the Card today. Calll-800-942-AMEX. 
• I J ~ > f ,. • ... • • " £. !I • .. " • • • oJ • " • • ~ • • t ~ • • .. ' f " .o. "" • ' 
= .-.• • • • .. ":-"! • ~--:---:-.,.. ~ !'" :: rr""!" ~ t; • • t: : .. t •,. ~ t t
;:i" eft r t-; , t' 
Monday, September 2, 1991 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Monday 
ACROSS 30 DiMaggio or 56 Puzzles 7 p.m. Film: Risky Business. Snite Museum Louis 
61 "I cannot tell 33 Empty "
1 Pitcher's plate 
5 Afternoon 

9 p.m. Film: The Cheat. Snite Museum 34 Mediterranean 
62 Criminal charge socials 
port 
64 Early autos 9 Souffle 
36 Maltreat 

ingredient 65 Fictional Lorna 
38 High-ranking 13 Missouri law officer 66 "-,Brute!" 
neighbor 41 Fence crossing 67 Millions of years 
14Declaim 42Stamping 68 Farm animals devices
15 Haul 69 Have to have 
LECTURES 
43 Cabin material 

16 District attorney 
44 Children's

Tuesday 18 Poet Whitman 
game DOWN 19 Picks 45 Deep black 
1 Tastes 

Noon. Kellogg Seminar: Brown Bag Lunch at the Theodore M. 
20 Leathernecks 47 Gawk 2 Body of 
llesburgh Center for International Studies. 
22 Feel one's-49 Cathedral knowledge (be sprightly) 
section 
3 Army truant 
51--up

24 Hang fire 4 Object often 
(matured) 
stolen25 Hold on (to) 
53 Bernhardt or 
5 Rely on

28 Stratum Terry 6--crow (recant) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Unit of matter 
MENU 

•
a Mexican's blanketlike Notre Dame shawl 
26 Legal action 46 Except for 55 --jobBatter Fried Perch (flattery)
9 Poet Markham 27 Baal, e.g. 48 Tease
Roast Turkey 1 o Judicial 57 Feds 
system's 29 He wrote 50 The Fourth 
Fettucini Alfredo "Come Back, Estate 58 Deal out
participant

Cloverleaf RollsO Little Sheba" 59 Room or
11 Nor'easter 52 Holds back chamber31 Western Indian 
12 Some NCO's 53 Swiss river preceder
Saint Mary's 32 Morays 
54 Liz Taylor role: 60 Kind of poker figure 33 Enormous
Oven Broiled Chicken 
1963 63 Fawn's dam Beef/Bean Burrito 11 Financier's sci. 35 Make over 
Fresh Vegetable Pasta 21 Showed a film 37 Actor Lugosi Answers to any three clues in this
again

Deli Bar 39 Baseball's Little puzzle are available by touch-tone 23 Kind of power Colonel phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 25 Surplice 40 Perfume minute). 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARYLARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

OH,8<>Y.11fllf 
MUST 6£ H£R. 
'fJ 
"Well, there he goes again .... I suppose I shouldn't worry, but I just get a bad feeling about Jimmy hanging with those tuna punks." 

--

Sports 
Monday, September 2, 1991 page 16 
Holtz: 'This is a closed matter' 
Coach says two violated team rules 
By DAVE DIETEMAN the party-goers. test, but that the arresting offi­Sports Editor According to reports pub­cer-who was not named in the lished in the South Bend <ificial Police Department press
Two Notre Dame football 

Tribune, DuBose claims to have release-refused to administer standouts-quarterback Rick 
been talking to a wanan when the test. Mirer and linebacker 
he was apprehended by the po­Williams has since been for­Demetrius DuBose-were 
lice. Mirer stated that he was bidden by Chief Ronald apprehended by officers of the 
arrested after inquiring why Marciniak fran speaking to the South Bend Police Department 
DuBose had been placed in a press in regards to the Mirer in a Friday night raid at the 
squad car. Both players be­and DuBose incident. 
Lafayette Square apartment 

lieved that they had been bad­Despite the players' apparentcanplex. 
gered because of the fact that sobriety-Qlld the arresting of­Approximately 500 people 
they are football players. ficer's refusal to administer a were frequenting several par­
Eyewitnesses, who spoke on Breathalyzer test-they were ties in the apartment canplex, 
condition of anonymity, have charged with public intoxica­which is monitored by an off­
stated that DuBose and Mirer tion and disorderly conduct. 
duty South Bend police officer. 

"positively did not drink any­This apparent lack of proce­Reportedly, the apartment 
thing while they were there." dure, however, is legal under managers had requested all 
Lieutenant Norval Williams, Indiana state law. people who were not residents public information officer for "Public intoxication is a Class of the complex to leave the the South Bend Police B misdEIIleanor, not an infrac­p-emises. tion," related attorney Charles
Department, told the Tribune 
Mirer, DuBose, and another Lahey, a private practitioner in
that he did not believe Mirer or Notre Dame student-John P. South Bend. "But you don't
DuBose were either drunken or 
need a Breathalyzer. Conviction 
Neal of Morrisey Hall-were 

disorderly. Williams noted that apprehended while South Bend 
Mirer requested a Breathalyzerpolice officers were disbursing see ARRESTS/ page 12 
Witnesses report action 
Mirer and DuBose: Faces in the crowd? 
At schools like Miami,------­police, bears investigation. Five-hundred
of South Bend police 
Arkansas or Colorado the people were at this party, virtually all of whan 
events of this past weekend were drinking. With Rick Mirer's picture in
By DAVE DIETEMAN anonymity. "DuBose was in the 
would not have garnered so, virtually every sports magazine and on
Sports Editor apartment-he's friends with 
much attention. Sadly, at countless television shows, and DuBose's face
the guys who live there-and 
many other schools the arrest nearly as recognizable, it is inconceivable thatWhile rumors have circulated he may have been drinking 
of prominent athletes is the police didn't know with whom they were
regarding the behavior of Rick before. But it's tough to say if nothing shocking. dealing.
Mirer and Demetrius DuBose at he was drinking previously 
Up until this time, however, With so many other people at the party, whyLafayette Square Friday night, because he's always talking. I would the police arrest two pruninent footballseveral students present at know positively that he didn't the University of Notre Dame RICH KURZ 
has more or less escaped this players? Only one other person was taken
apartment canplex have cane have any drinks here, because 
ignominy, perhaps through Associate Sports down to the station by the police. It sounds likefOI'Ward to tell what they pur­we ran out of beer long before the luck. of the Irish,·or, more Editor they were hunting big game and got more than
p<rt to be the true story of the he arrived. Mirer was just 
likely, through a conscient.Ous effort by the they bargained for.
events of that night. hanging out. 
administration and athletic department to keep As for the charges of public intoxication, well, These witnesses paint a pic­"I was standing in the door­its image clean. we'll never know if the pair had actually beenture of a quiet but crowded way later-I imagine Mirer was 
It would have been more understandable if drinking. The officials neglected to administer
apartment canplex, where stu­outside-when a police captain Rick Mirer and Demetrius DuBose had been in­Breathalyzer exams, and even when thedents-some under the legal and five or six other cops came volved in a aimin.al act. Feelings of regret and athletes requested them, the police failed to
drinking age-were congre­in and asked me if there were 
pity would have been prevalent, but people test the two. Sounds pretty suspicious. A little gated. Yet the story changes to more than .20 people inside. 
would understand why the police had to arrest too convenient an escape for the police depart­one of chaos, horror and con­The door was open and the thEIIl. ment.
fusion upon the arrival of per­answer was obvious, so he told 
haps 30 officers of the South me to get the people out, and I 
Instead, based on the testimony of those who Add to that the fact that an officer on the were at the party, including police officers, the scene told the South Bend TribWle that the twoBend Police Department. really didn't know how to go 
South Bend police have an incredibly weak weren't drunk, and it would seem that the
"Mirer was outside the whole about it. There were about 150 case on their hands. police's case is falling apart.
t.Dte; I never saw hDl oorne in," people inside. He came in and The charge leveled by the players themselves,stated one student who was in started yelling, trying to get who argued that they were singled out by theattendance at the Friday night 
see POLICE! page 13 
party and spoke on condition of 
see WITNESSES/ page 1 0 

ND volleyball superb in Brown's debut 
By RENE FERRAN shook off their early troubles to not die. Behind their outstand­Associate Sports Editor close within 13-10 before the ing defensive play and some Irish could close out the game. sloppy play by Notre Dame, 
It wasn't easy, but the Notre Game two was more closely they retook the lead, 1.2-11. Dame volleyball team made contested. The lead see-sawed "We got a little tentative," coach Debbie Brown's debut a back and forth until Purdue put said Brown. "We stopped being successful one. on a spurt, scoring six straight aggressive and stopped calling 
The Irish came back from a points to break a 6-6 tie and for balls. That's sanet.hing we'll two-games-to-one deficit to de­take canma.nd. need to worl!. on, that if we get feat Purdue Saturday night, 15-Game three was much the a team down by thatmuch, that 10, 10-15, 9-15, 15-13, 16-14. same. Notre Dame took an we keep them down. It was only the second time in early 5-3 lead, but the, 'They played much better de­
1.2 meetings that Notre Dame Boilermakers rattled off eight fense than I would have antici­came out victorious over the str.Ught to grab an 11-5 advan­pated. We didn't have any kills -Boilennak.ers. tage. that weren't touched by sane­"It couldn't have been any The Irish fought back, dimb­one." closer," Brown said in her first ing to within two, 11-9. After a However, the savior for the collegiate match since 1988. Purdue timeout, however, it got Irish in the fourth game was "I'm really proud of the team, the serve back and junior Gail outside hitter Alicia Turner. how they hung in there and Halink served out the game, The junior co-captain turned fought back." nailing an ace for the game­her ankle early in the game Early on, it didn't appear as if Wlllner. and was pulled by Brown, but the Irish would have any In game four, Notre Dame she returned to give them a 
-
trouble with Purdue. Notre refound the magic it had in the much-needed lift. Turner killed Dame stormed out of the gate, first game. With senior <XH:ap­the last four points for Notre scoring the first seven points tain Chris Choquette leading Dame to give it the 15-13 win. and taking a 10-1 lead in the the way with six kills and three "She really turned it on near first game. aces, the Irish opened up an the end," Brown said. "I took 
'1'thought we were very ner­11-3lead. her out to make sure she was vous," said Purdue coach Carol "I trunk that our players took okay, but she came back in and Dewey. "Nothing went right for it too lightly after we got up .2­us in the beginning." 1," Dewey said. 
The Boilermakers, however, But the Boilermakers .would see VOLLEYBALL! page 1 0 










