

~·&·
---tit--­
IIU· 19'2 
eObserver ~'~~ 
Saint Mary's College

II SQUIC INTI NNI ... I 
NOTRE DAME•INOIANA 

TUESDAY I SEPTEMBER 3, 1991 VOL. XXIV NO. 7 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush recognizes Baltics' independence 

KENNEBUNKPOHT, Maine 
democracy and market Aug. 19," said Lalita Muizniece,
• Baltics' reaction I page 5
(AP) -President Bush, after economies that we are witness­director of Latvian studies at choreographing his move with • Gorbachev acts/ page 5 ing in the republics them­Western Michigan University. "I 
Mikhail Gorbachev, on Monday selves," Bush said. would say that Latvians bymuch of his power, Bush said he 
formally rfJcognized the inde­His move drew mixed reac­nature are quite capable ofwould continue to deal with the
pfJndence of the Baltic states of tions at home. learning. Despite 50 years ofSoviet president "with respect
Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, Pastor Vilis Varsbergs, presi­oppression, with people tellingand with a a certain degree of
which were seized by the Soviet dent of Latvian Evangelical them what to do and when torecognition that we look at
Union a half century ago. Lutheran Church in America in do it, they'll start again and do some of these problems, foreign 
Bush said his decision did not Chicago, said many parish­very well." policy problems, eye to eye." 
signify that the United States ioners reacted mildly to the The establishment of diplo­Bush announced recognition
would necessarily recognize news, saying recognition should matic relations with the Baltlcsof the Baltic states at a Labor
other republics that break away have come sooner. was no surprise because the
Day news conference on the fi­
from thfJ Soviet Union. lie said "We feel great but It's sort of United States has made clear
nal day of his 29-day vacation :o.t
he would look at each dec­anticlimactic," said Varsbergs, for a week that It would do so.
President Bush

at his ocean-front estate.
laration of indepfJndence on a whose church has some 25,000 However, the delay In an­
"We've had a good rest up publics had decided to replace
case by case basis. members In North and South nouncing U.S. recognition be­
here," said Bush, looking the current ruling structure
And he expressed hope that a America. "Why should the U.S. came something of a mystery as
tanned and relaxed while jok­with a new government giving 
central government would sur­be the last one to do it after the United States stayed on the
ingly complaining about not
vive as "a strong partner, a far more power to the re­more than 30 others. Bush fol­sidelines while dozens of other
catching any fish. publics.
convincing partner to deal lows suit after everyone else." countries acted. 
The president hailed news "This is a watershed in Soviet
with" on matters such as for­"Chills were running down An administration official said 
from Moscow that Gorbachev political thinking, equal to the
eign policy and arms control. the spines of Latvians all over Bush decided to recognize the
and the leaders of 10 Soviet re-dramatic movements toward
Although Gorbachev has lost the world when the coup began see BALTICS I page 7 
Lennon appointed as assistant vice president by University 
By DAVID KINNEY basketball and baseball coach Associate News Editor 
for five years. For almost 10 years he has 
Chuck Lennon, the executive served as executive director of director of the Notre Dame the alumni association, "the Alumni Association, said that greatest job In the world," he his recent appointment as an said. The association has since assistant vice president of the garnered a national reputation University is recognition of the for Innovative programming many hard-working people in and its move toward public ser­the association. vice. 
As a result, the alumni asso­Notre Dame, with 210 local ciation is, for the first time, part clubs, 16 International groups of the University officer and 92,000 members, has the structure, he said. To Lennon, largest alumni association In

Chuck Lennon

this means that the association the world, he said. will be able "to do what we do vigor and enthusiasm in the Lennon pointed out that the even better," such as serving area of alumni continuing edu­association plays an Important the alumni and communities cation and community service educational, social, and reli­around the nation. · work," he said. gious role In the life of a Notre 
He said that the appointment Lennon graduated from Notre Dame student. "Your education Is an example of the leadership Dame in 1961, after lettering in does not stop when you get your style of University President baseball for three years and degree," he said. Father Edward Malloy and Pro­rising to president of his class. Reunions are only one of fessor William Sexton, director In 1962, he earned a master's many programs run by the of University Relations. They've degree from the University and 
see LENNON/ page 4 

"allowed us to move with great went on to serve as assistant 
Jerry Lewis raises $45 million in annual Labor Day telethon despite controversy 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -Comedian fought back tears as his they want to change the Jerry Lewis joined other daughter, 6-year-old Katherine, telethon "but not discourage celebrities and muscular dys­who suffers from a sometimes donations to MDA." trophy victims in coaxing a fatal form of muscular dystro­In Denver, about 25 disabled record $45,071,857 out of phy, told Lewis: "Thank you for activists protested In front of viewers during his 26th annual letting me smile." the local telethon headquarters. Labor Day telethon. Parker, star of the old CBS They yelled, "Free Jerry's kids! 
Pledges to the 21 1/2-hour television series, "Simon and Tune out the telethon." show, which ended Monday Simon," said he was grieving in Laura Hershey, a afternoon, surpassed last year's his kitchen one night shortly spokeswoman for the group and record tote of $44,172,186 for after he learned of his daugh­another former MDA poster the Muscular Dystrophy ter's illness when Lewis called child, said people with Association. to offer sympathy and support. disabilities have long protested 
The telethon drew some pick­"He's given hope to millions of for such goals as better access ets in Las Vegas, Los Angeles people who had no hope," to public buildings and trans­and Denver, but Lewis won ac­Parker said. portation. colades from those appearing Singer Maureen McGovern "But our biggest problem is on the annual show. said her niece contracted a dealing with people's attitudes," 
The studio audience at the neuromuscular disease the pre­Hershey said. "We are now part host Sahara Hotel tossed con­vious year. as equals of society and we fetti into the air and cheered as "If you think muscular dys­believe this telethon still the tote board went over last trophy can't strike your family, emphasizes our helplessness, year's record. Lewis cheered think again," she said. "I never our pitifulness and, by applica­again and shot a fist into the air dreamed l would be thanking tion, our uselessness to society." when a second tote, minutes MDA for helping my family." Six protesters, including one later, pushed the total over $45 Two former MDA poster chil­young man in a wheelchair, 
million. dren, Cris Matthews and Mike demonstrated outside the show Lewis sang his staple song, Ervin, recently announced a na­in Las Vegas. And in Los Ange­
The Obaerver!E.G.Bailey 

Practice makes perfect 
"You'll Never Walk Alone," and tional campaign to boycott the les, seven demonstrators wiped tears from his eyes as he telethon until Lewis is removed showed up in wheelchairs at a
Sophomore Rich Toohey (left) and senior Chris Paulson of 
walked from the stage. as host and the appeal is local telethon headquarters.
Keenan Hall stretch their athletic potential as they engage in a 
Earlier, actor Jameson Parker changed. Matthews has said
fierce session of football practice. 
see TELETHON I page 7 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Increasing clouds ay with showers 
=· and thunderstorms likely. High in lower 80s. low in middle 
60s. 
City H L Athens 82 66 Atlanta 76 68 Berlin Bt 59 Boston 72 51 ChiCago 83 62 Dallas-Ft.Worth 88 73 Denver 84 56 Detron 82 53 Honolulu 90 75 Houston 91 74 Indianapolis 89 61 London 81 61 Los Angeles 85 84 Madrid 93 84 Mi8ml Beach 86 77 M06oow 66 43 New York 74 53 73 84 77 55 88 68 93 74 94 57 75 52 86 53 90 75 
78 59 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
A lesson in Dixie for those from the North 
Hi, y'all! Today my------­
roommate threatened to flush the toilet non-stop when I next take a shower if I publicly discuss Northern and Southern dialects or in any way connect her with this communication battle. 
· Anna Marte Tabor
Sorry, Ang~e. I've ke~t my mouth shut SMC Accent Editor about this for a year too long, and it is high time a brave Belle educated her northern counterparts. With some amount of confidence, I think I can assume many Southe'nuhs at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame have endured the same criticism and torture as I have. The Northerners have a way of destroying our heritage by moving "you guys" in on our "y'all." When I arrived at Saint Mary's last year as a freshman, the hardest transition was not being able to understand anyone. Angie, who is from Minnesota, and I could communicate only when we were both equipped with translations in notebooks. Different dialects were not the only problems I had with my rapid-tongued friends. We eventually had to accept that we will never resolve the coke, soda, or pop and pantyhose, nylons, or stockings arguments. A week ago, I met a freshman from New Jersey who claimed he was having similar experiences. The very important difference between our stories, though, is that he is one of the ones who gets to do the picking on. Mike pointed out that I do not say "chocolate," "talk," or any other word with a vowel in it properly. Since we Southe'nuhs are vastly out­numbered, we have had to learn to un­derstand that "quata" means twenty-five cents and "oat" is another way of saying "out." It's time to educate the Yankee. I borrowed these words from a piece called "Goobers, Oakree, and Good Ole Boys" and took a few defmitive liberties of my own. Hint: Your pronunciation will be better if you practice while barefoot, in a pair of overalls, on a front porch. AIRS-mistakes How many AIRS you make on your exayum, boy? BAWL What water does at 212 degrees Fahrenheit. DAYUM Frankly, Scarlet, I don't give a ... FLARES It's smart to take your SYR date some FLARES. JEW JEW fiXin' ta go over yonder with me? QUARE-strange Ole Vrrgil's been actin' mighty QUARE ever since that mule kicked him in the head. RAH CHAIR Set them books down RAH CHAIR. TAR Never drive without a spare TAR. Now I'm sure y'all agree that northern talk is not the only one deserving to be spoken. Angie can attest to the value in learning to drawl, especially late at night when we're hard up for entertainment. It looks like I'll be taking a sponge bath tonight. 
Today's Staff: 
Production: Accent: Melissa Cusack Cheryl Moser Cynthia Ehrhardt 
Jahnelle Harrigan Laurie Sessa Sports: 
Rene Ferran News: Jennifer Marten Paul Pearson Rich Szabo Meredith McCullough Graphics: Scoreboard: Brendan Regan Richard Mathurin 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through F~iday except during exam and vacation periods. The <:Jbserver ts a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
nghts are reserved. 
WORLD Prisoner swap questions surface 
•BEIRUT, Lebanon -The fundamentalist Palestinian group Hamas said Monday that it holds Israeli soldier Ilan Saadon and wants him included in any U .N­sponsored prisoners swap with Israel. Saadon 18 was kidnapped in 1989 and last seen hitchhikinl! in' southern Israel. The army announced he was killed, but no body was found. Israel has always blamed Hamas for his disappearance. Hamas, or Zeal, is involved in the Palestinian uprising in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and the Gaza Strip that began in December 1987. Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir told Israel radio on Monday, "There is no negotiation with Hamas and I have no clearinformation of such a development."Israel has sevenother servicemen missing in Lebanon and demands accurate information about their fate as a preconditionfor a prisoners swap. 
NATIONAL Destruction of waste may improve 
•WASHINGTON With opposition growing to landfills and incinerators -especially for hazardous wastes -researchers say new technology could prove to be an appealing alternative. The process, called supercrit­ical water oxidation, can break down any organic compound. You filter out possibly dangerous heavy metals from the waste stream, and what's left is harmless. It can even be resold or released without damaging the environment. "It's an extraordinarily at­tractive and economic solution to some vexing problems," said Earnest Gloyna, professor of engineering at the University of Texas at Austin. But governments and in-
OF INTEREST 
vestors have been wary. "We're looking the idea over. It has the potential to destroy sewage in astronomical amounts," said Ben Benjamin, deputy director of Detroit's water and sewage department. "But until you run a full­scale test on it, you can't be 100 percent sure." 
INDIANA 

•K KOMO, IN -Kokomo's mayor is returning to work today with a special mission. Robert Sargent, who just got back from the Soviet Union where he witnessed some of the tumultuous events surrounding a failed coup, is carrying a message for President Bush. The official met with the mayor of Naberegnye Chelny, who asked him to call Bush and tell him to continue with his current course of action. Sargent said he planned to write Bush and send along the Soviet mayor's support. "I made him a promise and I plan to keep it," Sargent said Saturday. 
CAMPUS Freshmen election issues discussed 
•NOTRE DAME, IN -The Notre Dame Student Senate, in its first meeting of the year, set dates for freshman elections. The election will take place on Monday, Oct. 7. A runoff election, if needed will be on Wednesday, Oct. 9. An informational meeting will be held prior to the elections for interested freshmen. The elections will be similar to elections for upperclassmen. This year is the first time that an election will be held for the Freshman Class Council. The change is due to a constitutional amendment enacted last year. Next week's meeting will include a discussion of off-campus crime and a sesqui­centennial update. 
•over thirty social groups and social action or­ganizations will be represented at Student Activities Night at the JACC tonight from 7 to 10 pm. 
•seniors taking Interviews in the Career and Placement Services office this year should register today or Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 6:45p.m. All seniors must complete this process to take on-campus interviews. 
.·~henanlga~s, a Notre Dame and Saint Mary's smg.ng and dancmg ensemble, will hold tryouts for new members today and Wednesday. Sign up for audition times at Activities Night or at 309 Fisher Hall. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 2 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD-{} $3.00 to $350.90/oz. 


SILVER. .10.1¢ to $3.82/oz. 
MARKETS WERE INACTIVE YESTERDAY IN OBSERVANCE OF LABOR DAY 

•Tenors 
and basses are needed for the ND/SMC Collegiate Choir. Call 284-4634 for more information o come to a rehearsal this Tuesday or Thursday evening a 6p.m. 

•volunteer 
tutors are needed for elementary an high school Native American students on Tuesdays, fro 6 to 7:15 p.m., Sept. 10 through Dec. 10 in Madeleva Hal at Saint Mary's. An orientation meeting will be held Sept. 8 from 4 to 5 p.m. in Room 328 Madeleva. If you are unable to attend, call Michael Cox at 234-1048. 


ON THIS DAV IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1911: Social Democrats in Berlin threatened to strike if Genmany went to war over Morocco. 

• 
In 1925: The Navy dirigible Shenandoah crashed in Ohio storm killing 14 crew members. ' 

• 
In 1943: Allies crossed the Messina straits of Italy and invaded the mainland. 

• 
In 1952: In Little Rock, Ark., Eisenhower warnedwhite 

Southerners they could lose their rights by not protecting rights 0 Negroes. 

• 
Ten years ago: In New York, Abbie Hoffman, a fugitive six years, gave himself up. 


Tuesday, September 3, 1991 
The Observer page3 
SMC student council makes plans for year 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Lecture series, charity events and the celebration of the Sis­ters of the Holy Cross sesqui­centennial are just a few of the plans in the works by the Saint Mary's student Board of Gov­ernance (BOG) for the new aca­demic year. 
One of the new programs an­nounced by the Student Aca­demic Council (SAC) at its meeting Monday is the depart­mental open houses in which students can learn about the departments they are interested in and meet with the professors in these disciplines. 
SAC also plans to continue the Life of the Mind lecture series starting September 16 at 7:30 
p.m. with Tom Pres! and a lecture titled ~Brooklyn Bridges." 
BOG announced that the newly developed Volunteer Cen­ter will be working with the national program ~Into the Streets." This will allow stu­dents to volunteer in the South Bend and Mishawaka commu­nity, and possibly sponsor some events on campus. This pro­gram, in connection with the YMCA and United Way, is to kick-off Nov. 1. 
Also, this year BOG is working closely with campus security. A video on date rape was shown during Orientation, and there are plans to issue rape whistles and mace to students upon request. 
Saint Mary's Recycles offi­cially begins a recycling pro­gram on Sept. 10. An informa­tional meeting will be held Sept. 9 at 7:30 p.m. in Regina North. Plans are in the works to begin collecting glass, paper, and plastic and installing outside recycling containers. 
A new lecture series titled ~Opportunities ln ... " will begin Sept. 11. The program will in­volve women in the community discussing their jobs, issues in the work-place and their out­side role in the community, 
An open forum for BOG will be held Wednesday, Sept.18 at 
7:00 p.m. in the Haggar Parlor. All members of the student body are welcome. 
COME JOIN THE FUN AT THE ANNUAL 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 



TONIGHT 
JACC FIELDHOUSE 
7:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m. 
SPONSORED BY THE 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, NON-VARSITY ATHlETICS 

The ObserverIE .G.Bailey 

Check'em out 
Freshmen Joey Coleman and Marie Hauck eagerly peruse copies of the Freshman register, more commonly dubbed "The Dogbook." This handy guide became available to freshmen Monday. 
Bush denounces AIDS protests 
KENNEBUNKPORT, Maine (AP) -President Bush de­fended his administration's ap­proach to the AIDS crisis Mon­day and urged "behavioral change" to halt the spread of the disease. 
"Here's a disease where you can control its spread by your own personal behavior. You can't do that in cancer," Bush said on the morning after 1,500 AIDS activists staged a "die-in" on the road ncar his vacation home. 
He complained the ACT-UP protest disrupted business in his "ancestral home," where a few local merchants shut down "on the best weekend possible." 
Sunday's march by ACT-UP­the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power -was noisy but orderly, with no arrests. The group has disrupted Bush speeches in the past. 
"What was the message?" 
Bush asked. 
He said he opposes federal funding of clean-needle ex­changes -one of the demon­strators' demands -and wants "the most efficient and effective research possible" on AIDS, which already has claimed 114,000 American lives. The virus is transmitted through contaminated blood or body fluids. Most victims are homosexuals or intravenous drug abusers. 
Bush said the $4 billion AIDS research, prevention and treatment budget was "far more" on a per capita basis than the government spends fighting cancer and heart dis­ease. 
''I'm in favor of behavioral change," he said. "Here's a dis­ease where you can control its spread by your own personal behavior. You can't do that in cancer. You can't-well, to some degree some might argue you can in heart disease, if you run and stay fit." 
Bush made no mention of ci­garette smoking, which the surgeon general and other fed­eral health officials blame for hundreds of thousands of deaths each year from cancer, heart disease and other ail­ments. 
A White House official, asked why Bush cited personal behav­ior and AIDS, said, "Because it's sexually transmitted.... Nine out of ten doctors in America will support the president's position on this medically right down the line." 
Dennis Lyons, an activist with ACT UP's Maine branch, said of Bush's behavior remarks: "I think he's implying a value judgment against people who happen to be gay.' 
"He talks about behavioral change, but he has yet to insti­tute a national AIDS education awareness program for school children. Until he does that, kids are growing up in schools without being taught anything about safe sex," said Lyons, a graphic designer from Portland, Maine. "That's where AIDS education has to begin." 
Bush said that if the marchers' message was "compassion, I got it loud and clear." 
.......................... 
•
• 
•
. 
•




l~!®~~ll\1 •• 
. 
•




ARIEL • • • 
• 
. 
• 
.

8:10 p.n1. • • \Vashington Hall ••
•

Jidtt.•: 5H Stmlcm,f$10 \on·Stodcm' • ;II :1ibhlc at the • !.:1 Forrunc Ccnrcr Bo.\ Ollicc . 
• 
•

Ariel is a talcmcd Russian Pop PianiSI ll'ho has enamnrcd audiences 
• around the l'OUntry. His performances incorptJrJte native Russian •
• stories with contemporary, trdditional and on~inal piano pieces. •
•

All.S. eiti7.en for five years. Ariel has followed his dream to bring 
• 

the magic and wonder of the piano to America. •
• 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page4 The Observer Tuesday, September 3, 1991 

Lennon 
continued from page 1 
alumni association that "cultivate a lifelong relation­ship" between students and the University. Lennon pointed out that the association tries to establish a relationship with students from the first day of classes onward. 
"We have a motto here," he said. "Alumni don't interrupt our business; they are our 
business. That's what we're all 
about." 
Lennon said that the ND Alumni Association is unique because it is not only attempts to serve alumni, but also runs a number of programs aimed at benefiting local communities. 
For example, the alumni as­sociation and the Center for Social Concerns sponsor 115 summer service projects for ND students each year, he said. Students work with alumni at homeless shelters, children's 

MUSIC CO 
SINCE 1949 .. Great Brands, Great Ser..,·ice, Great Prices. Rentals 
AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A.. RENTALS 
ll.lun lhurs 
11 -7 prn h, 11-6pm 
220 W_ Marion Sal 10 4 prn 439 S. Michigan 
SPECIALISTS IN GUITAR & BASS REPAIRS/ 
SENIOR CLASS GOLF TOURNAMENT SEPT. 5 THURSDAY 9 HOLES 3:00 P.M. 85 per twosome PRIZES: 1st -820/per player lor winning team 2nd -81 0/per player lor 2nd place Sign up lor tee times in Senior Class Office 

Fighting erupts in Yugoslavia 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -New fighting broke out in Croatia on Monday, testing a truce brokered hours before by the European Community. 
Initial reports said fighting lessened across Croatia soon after leaders of the federal government and Yugoslavia's six republics signed the latest peace plan mediated by the EC. But within hours intense shoot­ing was reported in Petrinja, south of Zagreb, Croatia's capital. 
Clashes also were reported elsewhere in the republic, where Croatian militia are fighting ethnic Serbs and federal armed forces. 
Federal army officer Zoran Djodjevic said three people were killed and a fourth was wounded in an attack on a mili­tary base in Petrinja. Croatian officials and news media claimed tanks fired indiscrimi­nately at civilians. 
There was no independent confirmation. Associated Press reporter Tony Smith, among a group of reporters visiting the Petrinja base under fire, saw nine tanks leave for the town. 
Three tanks returned five hours later, one of their crews dragging a checkerboard 
Croatian flag through the dust. At least one man died and four were injured in fighting elsewhere in Croatia, which has been convulsed with violence 
hospitals, and other service in­stitutions, and in return, the lo­cal alumni organizations give the students $1400 scholar­ships. 
The association also offers 
continuing education seminars via satellite. One such seminar, a live-interactive teleconference on emotional and educational development of preschoolers, will take place this November, according to Lennon. It could potentially reach 11 million people across the nation. 

12:15-12:45 4:00-5:00 4:20-5:20 5:15-6:15 6:45-7:45 9:00-10:00 
12:15-12:45 4:00-5:00 4:00-5:00 4:15-5:15 5:10-5:55 5:20-6:20 5:20-6:20 9:00-10:00 
4:00-5:00 
9:00-10:00 

since just after its June 25 dec­laration of independence. More than 300 people have been killed in the fighting. About 70 others were killed earlier in neighboring Slovenia, which also declared independence. 
Previous truce accords for Croatia have collapsed, and Petrinja was an inferno of gun­fire hours after the latest ac­cord was signed Monday. 
After a grenade fell outside an army base above the town, the air was filled with the rattle of machine-gun fire, the thud of mortars and the screech of multiple-rocket launchers. 
The army claimed the Croat­ians fired first, but reporters at the scene were unable to con­firm this. 
The new peace plan provides for foreign cease-frre observers, a five-member arbitration panel and a peace conference to settle the crisis. It also calls for disarming some Croatian forces and Serb militants. 
Its endorsement by Yu­goslavia's collective federal presidency and the feuding leaders of the six republics raised hopes a way could be found to end the war. 
But deep differences stem­ming from historical rivalry between the Orthodox Serbs and Roman Catholic Croats re­main. 
Many of Croatia's 600,000 Serbs, 12 percent of the repub­lic's population, are unwilling to be part of an independent Croatia. Hatreds are fanned by memories of hundreds of thou­sands of Serbs slaughtered in death camps run by Croatia's Nazi puppet government in World War II. Serb monarchist guerrillas killed thousands of Croats during the same period. 
Croatia accuses Serbia, the largest Yugoslav republic, of instigating the fighting to ex­pand its territory. The Croatians also say the Serb-dominated army is helping the Serbian guerrillas, a charge denied by the military but one that is gaining currency in Western capitals. 
Vasil Tupurkovski, the federal presidency member from the southern republic of Mace­donia, said the peace confer­ence was expected after Sept. 9. The talks are to be held in the Netherlands. 

r---------------------------, 

For information and audition time call 284-4640. 
(\ 
0 
.:: }!

AEROBICS SCHEDULE FALL 1991 
MONDRY I WEDNESDAY 
Beg Step Rerobics Room 219 High Intensity Gym I Step Aerobics Gym 2 JACC Combo Aerobics Gym I JACC Water Aerobics Pool 
Rolfs Combo Aerobics Room 301 Rockne 
TUESDAY I THURSDAY 
Water Aerobics Pool 
Rolfs Step Aerobics Gym 2 JACC High Intensity Room :501 Rockne 
High Intensity Gym 1 JACC Aeroplcs Room :501 Rockne Stretchertlse Gym 1 JRCC 
step Aerobics Room 219 Rockne Combo Aerobics Room :501 Rockne 
FRIDAY 
Combo Aerobics Gym 1 JACC 
SUNDRY 
Combo Aerobics Room :501 Rockne 


All classes are co-ed. Men are encouraged to participate. The cost for classes meeting 2 days per week: is $15 a semester. The cost for classes meeting 1 day per week: is $10 a semester. 
The cost for 112 Hour classes is S1 0 a semester. 
c. p Classes begin September 4th 


-----.-----------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, September 3, 1991 The Observer pageS 
WELCOME BACK FIGHTING IRISH! Just Because You're Back At School Doesn't Mean The Summer Fun Has To End ... We've Got What It Takes! 



FREE NEON FRISBEE! 
WHILE SUPPLIES LAST. WITH PURCHASE OF STUDENT SPECIAL! 
STUDENT SPECIAL! LARGE $699
ONE TOPPING 
ADDITIONAL
PIZZA SECOND PIZZA TOPPINGS 
AVAILABLE
$4 MORE! 
LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
Valid at participatin~ stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Delivery area limited to ensure safe drivmg. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S 

271-0300 289-0033 
1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave. 

Gorbachev proposes shift in Kremlin power 
MOSCOW (AP) -Mikhail Gorbachev and heads of 10 So­viet republics won resounding support from parliament lead­ers Monday to shift most Krem­lin power to the republics and create a loose federation of sovereign, equal states. 
A troika formed by Gor­bachev, Russian Federation President Boris Yeltsin and Kazakhstan President Nursul­tan Nazarbayev caught hard­line lawmakers ofT guard at the opening of the Congress of People's Deputies by proposing to transform the government of the Soviet Union. 
Although there was no formal vote on the proposal from the 1,900-member Congress, It won key procedural votes by over­whelming margins. 
"Let's speak frankly," said Sergei Alexeyev, chairman of the Constitution Oversight Committee. MOur union was not simply on the verge of collapse, but already in a state of col­lapse. We're in the state similar to that in Yugoslavia." 
To preserve the country, Gor­bachev and the other leaders proposed an interim govern­ment, consisting of three coun­cils, that would give far more power to the 10 republics that endorsed it and strip the cen­tral government of most func­tions beyond defense and for­eign affairs. 
The plan apparently would grant independence to the five republics that did not endorse it -the three Baltic states, Moldavia and Georgia ­although that issue has not been fully resolved. 
On Monday, the United States formally recognized the inde­pendence of the Baltic states. President Bush said diplomatic ties would be established im­mediately with Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. 
Under the proposal put forth Monday, which must be ap­proved by the 1,900-member Congress, Gorbachev and re­public leaders would negotiate a new Union Treaty reconstitut­Ing the Soviet Union. 
In the interim, the country would be run three councils: a Council of Representatives of People's Deputies, consisting of 20 lawmakers from each par­ticipating republic; a State Council made up of the Soviet president and leaders from the republics; and an inter-republic economic council, consisting of republic representatives. 
The proposals Include estab­lishment of a union of sovereign states in which each republic will be able to define its participation. They also call for all republics to cooperate economically and step up radi­cal market reforms. 
Congress was also asked to support asking the United Na­tions to recognize each sovereign republic and to con­sider the question of their U.N. membership. 
The proposals won the sup­port of radical reformers such as former Foreign Minister Ed­uard Shevardnadze and former Gorbachev adviser Alexander Yakovlev. 
\ 
\ 
File phoiD 
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev faces great pressure from both the Baltic republics who want to break away and from hard-line government officials who want them to stay. 
Baltic states' citizens hail recognition 
VILNIUS, Lithuania (AP) ­Baltic residents hailed U.S. diplomatic recognition Monday as the final, overdue affirma­tion of their independence and called on Mikhail Gorbachev to follow suit. 
"The process of diplomatic recognition of Lithuania has reached its culmination," Lithuanian Vice President Bro­nlslovas Kuzmickas said. MAnd I feel we can now consider the struggle for our Independence to have been, In essence, won." 
But the mood was almost anti-climatic across the Battles. "Of course, we are happy to bear it, but we expected it so we're taking It calmly," said 51­year-old Paul Purga, a musician in Estonia's capital, Tallinn. 
People went about their busi­ness as usual in Vilnius. Inside the Lithuanian parliament building, office workers and journalists gathered around a television to watch President Bush announce that the United States was formally recognizing the independence of the Baltic states. 
''I'm very happy," said office worker Aurika Lingyte. "And I will also be happy when Gor­bacbev announces recognition." 
In Latvia, President Anatoly Gorbunovs said U.S. recognition "emphasizes the irreversibility of the steps taken" by his republic. 
~----------------------~------~--------·~~-------­
-------1 
page 6 
The Observer Tuesday, September 3, 1991 , 

Lutherans vote down anti-abortion platform 

ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -The nation's largest Lutheran de­nomination Monday rejected a move to condemn all abortions except to save the mother's life. Some delegates chafed over a Catholic cardinal's letter aimed at swaying their vote. 
Members of the 5.2-million­member body also refused to declare that life begins at con­ception, and they kept working to shape a less stringent anti­abortion policy. 
In floor debate, the assembly of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America gave scant attention to New York Roman Catholic Cardinal John O'Connor's missive urging them to take a bold stand to protect "the unborn." 
But in interviews, some dele­gates objected to the letter's timing and called it unprece­dented for a Catholic plea to be interjected into debate by Lutherans, named for 16th­century Protestant reformer Martin Luther who led the break from the Catholic church. 
"I know of no parallel," said Father William Rusch, the de­nomination's ecumenical officer. 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey

Burgers and dogs He said such consultation properly could have come ear­TDhese stkudents thake adv~ntage of the lingering South Bend summer heat and enjoy a traditional Labor lier and doubted it would have 
ay coo out on t e grass rn front of Zahm Hall Monday. 
much effect at this point. Bishop David Brown of Wa-
Boston cops announce major drug bust 

BOSTON (AP) -Federal offi­cials on Monday stood in front of bales of cocaine stacked like cordwood and announced a co­caine bust that netted 4,822 pounds of the drug worth $500 million on the street. 
Eleven people in Mas­sachusetts and Florida were charged, and 10 arrested, in the third major cocaine bust in the Boston area since June. 
U.S. Attorney Wayne Budd said almost 5 tons of cocaine worth $1 billion had been seized since June. 
"It's much more difficult to calculate the harm, the danger, the destruction this cocaine would have had on the thou­sands of people it was destined for," said Budd, who called a special Labor Day news conference to display the money and cocaine. 
Budd said the cocaine, which federal undercover agents ac­quired Aug. 7, was "in pure, uncut form." Investigators also seized $450,000 in cash, $173,750 in checks and five ve­hicles. 
The defendants were charged with conspiracy to possess co­caine with intent to distribute. If convicted they face up to life in prison and fmes up to $4 mil­lion, Budd said. 
Two of the men arrested were from Colombia; the others were from New York City, Miami and Massachusetts. U.S. Magistrate Judge Joyce London ordered the suspects held pending a federal court hearing Tuesday. 
On June 15, investigators in Peabody seized 3,300 pounds of cocaine, worth $175 million, 

and $500,000 in cash. Four 
men were arrested. Two days earlier, FBI agents arrested 14 people and seized 1,353 pounds of cocaine in Middleborough. 
Law enforcement officials say they are combating dealers' tactic of shipping drugs through New England and eastern Canada rather than Florida and the Mexican border. 
"Either (drug dealers) didn't get the message or they under­estimated our resolve," said Robert Czujak, special agent in charge of the U.S. Customs Service in Boston. "Big mistake for them." 


verly, Iowa, called it "very 
inappropriate." 
O'Connor's letter, partially 
read on the floor by a Lutheran 
delegate, expressed hope the 
church would defend human 
life "in all stages and 
conditions." 
The letter said abortion "is 
chiefly a question that puts to 
the test the theological and 
moral integrity of the Christian 
community." 
O'Connor made his appeal in 
a letter to St. Paul, Minn., dele­
gate Paul Hasbargen, one of a 
group of Minnesota clergy and 
lay people who had offered the 
amendment to condemn abor­
tion except to save a mother's 
life. 
Their proposal was pushed as a substitute for one developed through church-wide hearings that calls abortion an "option of last resort" and would condone it only in limited circumstances. 
Those circumstances include when the mother's life is threatened, when a fetus is so deformed it would live only a short time, and in cases of rape or incest. 
"Beyond these circumstances, we as a church disagree on what conditions, if any, make abortion a morally responsible act," the statement said. 


Seniors interested in Senior Formal Committee 
Sign up at LaFortune Info. Desk Deadline Wednesday, Sept. 4. 
Tuesday, September 3, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Milwaukee set to open Afro-centric inner-city school 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -The three Its will take a twist this year at a school in Milwaukee's inner-city where the curriculum Is geared toward the special educational, social and emo­tional needs of black children, especially boys. 
But the enrollment of 560 students at Victor Berger Ele­mentary School Is half female, said Principal Josephine Mosley. 
"The curriculum is focused on African-American males, but we will do the same for the fe­males that we do for the males," Mosley said. "The needs of female students are just as great as male and everything we do here is good for all kids, regardless of sex or race." 
The school is in a black neighborhood where most of the pupils live, she said. 
Other immersion programs have been developed in Balti­more and Detroit, and have been discussed in San Diego, Miami, Washington, D.C., and New York. 
Detroit, where 90 percent of public schools students are black, sought to open three all­male public schools for Inner­city blacks, but a judge ruled last month that the restriction was unconstitutional and that girls also must be allowed to enroll. 

W
e're working smarter, too. So you don't have to work harder. 
For us, it means an ongoing rela­tionship with educators and profes­sors, striving to understand what's 
needed to help them make math concepts come alive. 
It means continually working with students like you, discovering firsthand what you expect from the calculator you select. 
The result? Calculators that are highly recommended by your teachers and peers. Calculators that are perfectly matched to your major and your coursework. 
The 11-81 is a perfect example. It offers the most comprehensive, easy-to-use graphing features available with extensive pro­gramming capabilities. 
And there are others. 
"'Trademark ofTexas lnatrumcnts, Inc. 

Like the 11-68, an advanced scien­tific that solves up to five simulta­neous equations, performs complex numbers and offers formula programming. 
The 11-36X SOLAR, a general 
purpose workhorse powered by 
ANYLITE™ solar cells so you 
never need batteries. 
The BA II PLUS~M For business 
students, this is the one to get. It handles time-value-of-money and offers cash flow analysis for internal rate of return (IRR) and net present value (NPV). 
Plus a whole lot more. 
No matter what your major, no matter what the course, there's a 11 scientific or business calculator that's right for you. Do the smart 
thing: make one of them a part ofyour professional personality now, and for the years to come. 
You'll be on your way to work­ing smarter. Instead of harder. 
Try the entire line of11 scien­tific and business calculators at your local 11 retailer. 
.TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 
~00-MAIJAN REBATE~S5 00 
when you buy the Tl-68 or BAil PLUS™ 
HERE'S HOW: 1. Save your original cash register receipt. 
2. 
Clip the proof-of-purchase UPC bar code from package. 

3. 
Complete this mail-in rebate certificate. 

4. 
Send all three items to the address below. 


MAIL TO: BACK:ro..SCHOOL REBATE OFFER Texas Instruments Incorporated 
P.O. Box 53 • Lubbock, Texas 79408 
NAME (PLEASE PRJNn 
ADDRESS 

Baltics 
continued from page 1 
Baltics' freedom last Tuesday after meeting with foreign policy advisers and Robert Strauss, his new ambassador to Moscow. 
Bush sent a cable to Gor­bachev last Tuesday night alerting him of the impending announcement but expressing hope that the Soviet Union would act on Its own first to grant Independence. Yet, the cable said in effect that "time is running out" and the United States would act by Friday, the official said, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity. 
On Friday, a member of Gor­bachev's personal staff called the White House and pleaded for more delay. The aide told Ed Hewitt, the senior Soviet specialist on the National Secu­rity staff, that "they needed more time, that the (Soviet) Parliament had not acted, President Gorbachev was still considering the situation, could they have more time before we announced it," the official said. 
After checking with Bush, Hewitt called back and said the president would wait until Monday. On Sunday, Bush re­ceived a cable from Gorbachev, thanking the president for his support throughout the Soviet crises and saying that things were under control. 
But Gorbachev's message made no mention of the Baltics or their independence. "So we went ahead with today's. recog­nition," the official said. Gor­bachev, however, did indicate In a Sunday interview on Cable News Network that the Baltic states were free to leave the union if they wished. 
In delaying action, Bush had hoped that Soviet authorities would clear up disputes on over the Baltics' boundaries and border security as well as polit­ical issues. 
"Those concerns are all still there," the official said. "The president just felt that at this point we'd given them every opportunity, that we might as well go ahead with the recognition and we'll just have to deal with these." 
Telethon 
continued from page 1 
Lewis touched on the contro­
versy as he kicked off the 
telethon. 
''I've never used the terms 
'disabled' and 'handicapped,"' 
Lewis said. 
"Please, I'm begging for sur­vival," he said. "I want my kids alive. ... I don't ask you to pity them. I'm asking you to keep them alive." 
Protesters also complained that the telethon's overhead Is too high. But Jerald Friedman, president of the MDA's Los An­geles chapter, said Independent audits show the association has one of the lowest overhead costs of live top charities. 
Lewis has raised some $570.7 million from the telethon that bears his name. Corporate con­tributions, not included in the telethon totes, have pushed the total past $1 billion. 

Fulfill all your communications reqtJirements with one course. 
AT&T STUDENT 
If you're looking for a simple way to handle all of your communications needs, theres one prerequisite. join AT&T Student
SAVER PLUS 

Saver Plus. You'll be able t9 get an entire line of products and services designed specifically to save college students time and money. 0 Our Reach Out® 
....,. --:. \1.. ~.---·--.. 
could save you money, no matter where and when yuu calL Ca/1 Manager+ \ ffi~~I :will 
save you time by separating your long distance calls from your roommates' calls, for free. And the AT&T Calling Card makes it easy to call from 
almost 

anywhere to anywhere. 0 And with AT&T, you'll always get the most reliable long distance service. 0 Plus, if you register for 
any of our services-or if you're already an AT&T customer-you'll IJll.!! get a free hours worth ofAT&T long distance calling.• As well as discounts 
-

on all kinds of things, all year round. 0 So ask about AT&TStudent Saver Plus. You'll find that for this communications course, we did our homework. 
join AT&TStudent Saver Plus today. Calli 800 654-0471 Ext. 4810. 
AT&T
t Thts service may not be IMlllable 1n residence halls on your campus 
"Good for one hour of d•ed-dtaled, coast-lo-coasl. ntghl and weei<end calling, based on prtees elfecll\19 
2/16/91 Offer limiled to one $8.25 AT&T Long Orslance Certrlrcate per student Otter valid lhrough June 30, 1992 
©1991 AT&T 

Tuesday, September 3, 1991 

The Observer/E.G.Bailey 
Making progress 
Construction has become a familiar sight in the DeBartelo Quad as the partially built structures near completion. 
SENIORS! SENIORS! 
Registration For On-Campus Interviews: 
Tuesday, September 3 
10:00 a.m. to 6:45 p.m. 
Wednesday, September 4 
10:00 a.m. to 6:45 p.m. 
Register Today! Career and Placement Services 
The Observer page 9 
Germans seize Libyan-bound machines 
BONN, Germany (AP)-In­vestigators seized machinery bound for Libya at Hamburg harbor and were trying to de­termine if it was intended to help Moammar Gadhafi build rockets, officials said Monday. 
German authorities stressed there was no indication the company, Fritz Werner, was guilty of wrongdoing and the company itself denied the charges. 
The machinery-an indus-
Security Bellt 
TUESDAY, AUGUST 27 

4:42 p.m. A University employee reported he lost two B-2 parking decals. 
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28 

12 •.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported he lost his wallet in the South Quad. 
2:55 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police escorted two Dillon Hall residents back to their dorm. The two students were taken into custody after they were spotted commiting vandalism. 
11:03 a.m. A Breen-Phillips Hall resident reported she lost her wallet. 2 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported he lost his wallet. 
2:30 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident re­ported vandalism and attempted larceny from his car while it was parked in the D-2 lot. 
3:45 p.m. A visitor to the University reported the theft of her car stereo and several other items from her vehicle while it was parked in the B-2 parking lot. 
5:50 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident reported he lost his wallet. 
6:20 p.m. A University faculty member reported vandalism to his car and the theft of his car stereo while the vehicle was parked in the B-21ot. 
6:50 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported that the rear window on his truck had been smashed while the vehicle was parked in the D-21ot. 
7:16 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from a hallway in the dorm. 
THURSDAY, AUGUST29 

12:06 •.m. Notre Dame Security/Police confiscated alcohol from unattended 
trial oven and a fiber-wrapping Innocence in a statement later machine -was to be shipped Monday. on a Libya-registered freighter, "At no time did Fritz Werner said Hans-Josef Blumensatt, make deliveries -directly or chief prosecutor in Wiesbaden. indirectly -in Libya to the 
The offices of Fritz Werner, arms industry," the statement owner of the shipment, also said. were searched and documents confiscated after the machinery ·11 said Fritz Werner has been was seized July 16, Blumensatt doing business for years with said. the "Central Repair Workship" 
Officials at Fritz Werner, in Tripoli, filling orders for re­which is based in Geisenheim, placement parts for vehicles, near Wiesbaden, declared their machines and electric motors. 
coolers in the area of Gate 10 of the ACC. 
9:15 •.m. A student reported he lost his C-2 parking decal. 11 •.m. A student reported he lost his C-1 parking decal. 
11:55 •.m. A Breen-Phillips Hall resident reported the theft of some clothes she had left in the hallway of her dorm. 
4:09 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident reported the theft of two speakers from his car while it was parked in the D-2 lot. 
4:22 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of her B-16 parking decal from the Pasquerilla West breakroom. 
8:10 p.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer stopped a suspicious van after it left the Fischer Graduate Housing complex. The driver and a passenger were arrested on outstanding warrants. A second passenger was questioned and released. 
8:55 p.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer confiscated a large cooler full of alcohol from the area of Gate 10 of the ACC. 
FRIDAY, AUGUST 30 
3:29 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police Officer apprehended a student who was found in violation of University rules. 
10:10 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to a report of a suspicious male in the lobby of Knott Hall. No suspect was found. 
1:42 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police transported an injured University employee from North Dining Hall to University Health Services. 
4:03 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported he was assaulted while playing golf. The suspect was questioned and released. No charges were filed. 
7:30 p.m. A Notre Dame student was cited by Notre Dame Security/Police for traveling 48 MPH in a 40 MPH zone. The officer also confiscated all liquor from the 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASS<I:IATION MEMORIAL PRCERAM,. 
car and informed the suspect that minors were not allowed to transport liquor. 10 p.m. A Knott Hall resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
SATURDAY, AUGUST 31 

12:30 •.m. Notre Dame Security/Police transported a highly intoxicated female student to the Student Health Center and then to South Bend Memorial Emergency for evaluation. 
1:11 •.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to a report of a suspicious person on the path by St. Joseph's Lake. No suspects were found. 
7:54 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer discovered the apparent theft of a car stereo from a vehicle in the D-2 lot. 
10:48 a.m. A visitor to the University reported vandalism to her car while it was parked in the A-15 lot. 
10:55 •.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of his locked bicycle from the bike rack in front of Flanner Hall. 
8:35 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police found a student selling T-shirts in Flanner Hall in violation of University policy. 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 1 
2:01 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer stopped a vehicle which was speeding on Edison Road. The suspect, a South Bend resident, was arrested and charged with driving while intoxicated. 
7:30 a.m. A Notre Dame Security Police officer confiscated an A-1 decal from a suspect who attempted to enter campus with it. The suspect drove off before he could be identified. 
12:22 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported vandalism to his car while II was parked in the D-2 North parking lot. 
2:30 p.m. A Sarin Hall resident reported that his wallet was stolen from Sarin Hall. 

As aMarine Officer, }00 oould be in charge ofa afreshman or sophomore, ask about our Wlder­M3ch 2+ FIA-lBA, a~ take-off Harrier or grnduate officer commissioning programs. If}OO're a one ofour ocher jets or helicopters. And }00 could junior, check out our graduate programs. Starting ooitbythetime}OO're23. Butittakesaspedal salaries are from $22,000 to $32,000. And~ 
rommitment on }OUr part~ .--------------, you can coWl! on . demandleadersatalllaoels. ~0 ~~a..J.I.ar goingfurther...fuster. ~ llXh you to be one. If}\m're Ul .l.mUl.,~ ••• TheFew. The Proud. ThdiJuines. 

Capt. Tom O'Connell will be at the Lafortune Center, Ohara Lounge from 10:00-2:00 this Tuesday and Wednesday. Stop by for more information or call 1-800-875-8762. 

WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE 
• 

~.M..-=­
t\ORfftU ernTfR cfc5p Tt1f cfi R T s 
SAT.URDAY, SEPT. 14,8 P.M. An Evening of Songs and Stories with a Folk Music Great 
TOM PAXTON 



FRIDAY, OCT. 4, 8 P.M. An International Favor~e Comic/Mime 
BOB BERKY 
A moreau galleries, sylvia taccani, photographs, michael shaughnessy, 
sculptural installation, sept. 6-oct. 4, admission free A saint mary's theatre, hansel & gretel: an old tale newly told, nov. 14-17 A jonathan !rid's shakespearean odyssey, nov. 23 A the south bend chamber singers gala christmas concert, dec. 20 
Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in Olaughlin Auditorium, Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Visa/MasterCard orders: 219/284-4626. 

• 
American Heart Association 


Viewpoint 
Page 10 Tuesday, September 3, 1991 
--
--Ih-. -e-o~~:---~-~~erc-=-=­
~~~-=·~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Edhor-ln-Chlet Kelley Tuthill Managing Edhor Busln... Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Edhor ..•...•••••••.•••.•.••.Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Edhor •....•..•••...•... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Edhor •....•....•.... David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor ......•....•..••... .John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Edhor .•..•.••..•....•.•....... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick S.lnt Mary's Edhor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE, EDITOR 
haracter 

Dear Editor: their arrest, both Mirer and Just because the police are 
Change the slogan on their DuBose requested a not themselves intelligent squad cars. Once again, South Breathalyzer test. But police enough to be admitted into the Bend's fmest put their best foot denied them their request. University of Notre Dame, pop­forward and stuck the other Why? Because, according to the ular enough to be invited to foot in their mouth -or firmly South Bend Tribune, police their parties, or talented up some other orifice. admitted that they didn't think enough to play major college
, on e t e o er peop e at that
Arrested the night of August either was drunk, that they no­football does not mean they
untamed frontier of northern party who know full well and
30 for public intoxication and ticed no unusual behavior in ei­should vent their jealousies
Indiana, it appears that one can who have already stated pub­
disorderly conduct were three ther one, and that neither against those who arc.
be arrested and charged with licly that they were neither
people at a party being held smelled of alcohol. If the police really wants to
public intoxication merely on a drunk nor disorderly; or a pa­
near the r."mpus of the So what's the problem? I, too, provide a public service, or "To
police department whim and rade of police officers, none of
University of Notre Dame. drank no alcohol that night. Serve and Protect" as they like
with no other substantiation. whom could agree on the same
According to various estimates, Why wasn't I arrested? Mirer to boast, let them begin by
Why should we take their story, supported, no doubt, by
there were between 500 and and DuBose claim they were solving a few murders or pre­
word for it? And where, in this some right-wing dolt who
600 people at that party, but singled out because they venting a few break-ins, rather
instance, the disorderly conduct swaggers into the courtroom
only three arrests. Of these, two happen to be football players. than harassing and arresting
charge came from remains a with a Bible in his hand and his
were Notre Dame football Well, they happen to be right. innocent kids. 
mystery even to the police. fly open, claiming to represent
players: quarterback Rick Mirer Mirer also claims he overheard It can often be a fine line
Should Mirer and DuBose the best interests of South
and linebacker Demetrius one officer say that "if he had between enforcing the law and
choose to take advantage of the Bend, Indiana -home of the
DuBose. enough handcuffs, he'd arrest breaking it. Sometimes, it's a
situation, they both could very Kitty Kat Lounge? 
At the time of his arrest, the whole damn team." Case little easier to discern. Which,
easily walk away from this This latest incident is not an
DuBose was outside talking to a closed. after all, is the real crime: pub­
thing rather wealthy young men isolated case. Many times has
friend. Mirer, who was on the According to Ron Marciniak, lic officials destroying a young
by suing for wrongful arrest the South Bend Police
telephone in a nearby apart­that fine, upstanding bastion of man's reputation on nothing
and defamation of character. I Department stuck its dirty nose
ment, was told what was hap­humanity and current South more than a whim, or a college
hope they do. And just whom where it clearly didn't belong.
pening and came out to ask po­Bend police chief, it is not nec­football player not drinking a
would you believe: two good­Why do they have this deep­
lice why DuBose was being essary, at least as he claims to beer?
looking, articulate, thoughtful seated obsession (let alone the
taken away. He, then, was ar­understand current police de­Stephen Alpert 
young men who just happen to time) to hunt down students
rested on the spot. partment procedure, to first South Bend, Indiana 
be national celebrities with na­guilty of nothing more than
Because neither had had a administer a Breathalyzer test August 31, 1991
tional reputations, supported by talking to each other?
drink within two hours prior to before making an arrest for 
Student involvement contributes to community spirit 
Dear Editor: pervades the community. It neighborhoods of South Bend, South Bend to make this a bet­
The growing incidents of vi­seems to me that one way to we declare that we stand with ter place to live, then come to olent crime in our community deal with this problem is to the people of the community in Activities Night, this evening at has marred the beginning of work actively at making our their efforts to make this a the JACC from 7-10 p.m. this academic year. It seems to community a safer and better better, safer place to live. Over thirty organizations me that we must address the place to live. We no longer seem like for­and agencies that _serve the lo­problem in ways that will make I would suggest that one way eigners who have no investment cal community will be repre­our community more safe for to do this is by contributing in what happens here. At the sented there. Yo"u can learn everyone who lives in it. some of our time to programs same time, our growing knowl­what services are being offered 
The problem of crime is ex­that serve the disadvantaged edge of our surroundings makes and how you can help. We can tremely complex. There is no members of our community. them less frightening and make a difference . easy way to prevent crime or to This approach addresses some unknown to us. Kathy Royer insure that one will not be a of the ills that breed crime, If you are interested in be­Coordinator of Service and 
victim. while it allows us to know our corning involved in the South Social 
One of the most insidious by­neighbors better and let them Bend community, in contribut­Action Groups products of increased crime is know us. ing to the efforts of the resi­Sept. 3, 1991 the growing sense of fear that By becoming involved in the dents of the neighborhoods of 
... DOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 
MOVING BAa< HOMe, MOM 0'M!N8l THe 1<&41.-WORW /JI!?N'T t-f/ORJ< WT. BUTH8Yt rTHAPP&NSl 
I 

BOY, I M!S5W YOU GUY9 B/6 T!Mbl ANI) 
7He Ot.! HOM8'37l3AO. 
He:r<8, MOM, I 8RaJGHT 
TH/'3 FOR YOU/ 
NO STARCH, 
PL/3AS8.
80'/,IM5TARVW.' 
\ 

'For the next ten minutes, everything comes with pancakes.' 
from Laverne and Shirley 
Submit to: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
Accent 
Tuesday, September 3, 1991 
'Boyz' depicts bittersweet triumph 
It would have been easy for me to attack the first movie I reviewed this year. It would have given me the reputation as a tough or at least discerning film critic. 
However, "Boyz n the Hood" is a film too Important to be used as an example. 
This movie, the story of young blacks growing up in south-central Los Angeles from the mid eighties to the present, is an unforgiving, harsh look at the problems in black society. 
On top of this, it contains some very professional and convincing acting. The combination of good cinema and social relevance make this movie far too good to miss. 
The movie begins when Tre Styles, the protagonist played by Cuba Gooding, Jr., is 11 years old. He moves with his father to a black neighborhood that is rough but close-knit. 
lie falls into an ambiguous crowd 
Elizabeth Hayes Observer Film Critic 
including some no-goods and some kids with real promise. At this point some intriguing foreshadowing of the events that will happen to them all in the next seven years takes place. 
The story unfolds slowly, making frequent stops to address almost every major black social issue from single­parent families to issues of housing and the plight of the black athlete. 
"Boyz n the Hood" takes every opportunity to get up on a soapbox about the problems facing today's black communities. 
As well it should. I have never seen a film that puts the black urban community under such close scrutiny. 
Writer and director John Singleton has shown many sides of it, from the drug­dealing "hoods" that terrorize its streets to 
**** 
(on a scale of five) 
Written and directed by John Singleton Produced by Steve Nicolaides Now showing at University Park East 
e care an concern even t teenagers have for their neighbors. 
The black neighborhood portrayed in this movie is a real community, where people are not just neighbors but a family, with all the attendant familial regard and fighting that takes place in an actual family. 
And in the end, Tre's triumph is bit­tersweet rather than sappy, because he is the only one of the "boyz" who makes it out of the cycle of poverty and despair. 
Ice Cube, the popular rap artist, plays "Doughboy," a tough and dramatic teenager who vacillates daily between trying to do the right thing and succumbing to the fate that his environment and his disparaging mother have placed upon him. 
He displays an impressive range of emotions, and stands as a powerful and realistic image of the young American black. 
It can be argued that this movie bites off more that it can chew. It is a small film that addresses the most gigantic of social issues. Perhaps its well intentioned naivete is what makes it so convincing. 
This kind of true dedication to a purpose is so seldom found in modern cinema that it gives this movie a stature that other films of its kind have not achieved. 
page 11 
... 

(above) Doughboy (Ice Cube), one of the three close friends who grow up together in south-centr 11 Los Angeles, is living by the laws of the street in "Boyz n the Hood. • 
(below) Tre (Desi Arnez Hines, left) at age 10 walks to school with his friends. 

Athena answers the plight of confused ND students 
Concerned students from all around campus have expressed their concerns over a wide array oftopics. 
I consulted Athena, goddess of wisdom for her deep insight on these matters. Athena is a professed ND alum. 
Dear Athena, 
I am so nervous about my upcoming SYR. How should I go about getting a date for it? 
Lou Zehr 
Flanner Hall 
Lou Zehr, 
Domers employ many different methods In getting : YR dates, or any dates for that 
1atter: 
a. 
Scope one out in the dining nail. When the moment is right-just "accidently" bump Into her (being careful not to cause her to drop her tray), and ask her. 

b. 
Utilize your "dogbook." Be careful not to be shallow and base this crucial decision on looks alone. 


Look for unique hobbies such as spear fishing, safari's, or bookbinding and steer away from the "people, conversation, talking" types. 
Aren't those three of the most basic necessary human skills? You would hope that everyone has already acquired them? 
c. Since you live in an air­conditioned dorm, simply wait for another ghastly hot day, call a girl from South quad and in­vite her to your cool abode. If that does not get you a date-you are hopeless indeed. 
Dear Athena, 
Is it true that no one is allowed to walk on the grass on campus? 
Tyred C. Mentwalker 
Pasquerilla West 
Tyred C. Mentwalker, 
Absolutely, positively true. ND grass is sacred territory, much like the Dome and the Grotto. 
The University employs snipers with up to a half-mile range, who gun down anyone seen trespassing on the green grass. 
To cut down on this expense, the University is highly con­
sidering becoming cement campus.  an all  
Dear Athena, I am a freshman  male. I  

really have no clue as to what goes on in a football game. Can you help me out with some of the most basic terms? 
Cloo Less Alumni Hall 
Dear Cloo Less, We'll start with the most simplistic and basic concepts. 
Touchdown-when one of the players with the gold helmets runs, or receives the football in an end zone. 
End Zone-the place on either end of the field with no numbers. A big tip-off is the goalpost located at the end of it. 
Goal post-the thing in the 
Jeanne Blasi From the Playpen 
end zone that looks like a fork without the center prong. You may see a kicker try to kick a football through it. 
Football-if you cannot figure this one out, stick to tailgating and just cheer when everyone else does. 
Dear Athena, 
What happens if I decide to break parietals and keep a guy in my room overnight? 
Dee Fiant 
Walsh Hall 
Dee Fiant, 
A dangerous proposition indeed. At the designated hour, if the boy is not out of your room, an alarm goes off. 
When this is not heeded, helicopters with search lights encircle the dorm looking for the prospective sinners screaming "you are a flower of Mary, keep your virtue intact!" through their bullhorns. 
Finally, if the chastity patrol does not get you, God will-thunder resounds as the sky lights up with the word "Sinners" with a gigantic arrow of lightning pointing to your 
room. 
Dear Athena Is it OK to have a boyfriend 
as a freshman? Ty Down Lewis 
Ty Down, 
One? How about four or five? 
Dear Athena, 
What should I wear to my first SYR? I am kind of scrawny and want to look more muscular. 
W. E. Zell Zahm 
W. E. Zell, 
The official "Real ND Man" handbook in the chapter entitled "Looking Huge" calls for a navy blue blazer, striped or paisley tie, khaki or plaid pants, and standard loafers. 
Unfortunately, this look is prescribed for every other section of the book also. 
Dear Athena, 
I'd like some advice on preventing the "freshman 15" from accumulating on my early freshman year figure. 
Constance Leed Rinken 
Anonymous male dorm 
Constance Leed Rinken, 
If you're going to drink, you are going to gain. So live your life as you will, suck it in, and deal with it. 
Dear Athena, 
What do I do if my SYR date ditches me at the dance when I think the date is going well? I've heard it happens to everyone at least once. 
Ditch E. Dagain 
Morrissey Manor 
Ditch E. Dagain, 
Unfortunately this "ditchitis" Is not linked to being a freshman, but occurs to ND men of every age (and women also}. 
If your "scoping techniques" are solid and you use good judgement, this calamity should never happen to you. People most likely to get "ditched" on a date are those who: 
1. 
Use the dogbook pictures as their sole source of choosing a date. 

2. 
May be too aggressive or not aggressive enough. 

3. 
Choose a date who's a real 

4. 
Are themselves real 


Carefully consider each of the possibilities before deciding the real problem. 
Dear Athena, 
What do I do if I get an 'F'? 
Vera Stressed 
Lyons Hall 
Dear Vera Stressed, 
1. 
Hire a hit man and kill your professor. 

2. 
Run away and join a monastery and live a life of peace and solitude. 

3. 
Transfer to Miami. 

4. 
Suck it up and deal with it. 


I hope Athena's advice quells your concerns. 
page 12 1 11~ uu:s~rv~r IU~suay, ~JJI~IIIUt:ll .:>, ~~~I 
SPORlS BRIEFS

Thomas shines in Jets' 
new offensive scheme 
•The 
Observer accepts sports briefs in writing at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune from 9:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m.. Be sure to include date, place, time and number of days the brief is to run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all briefs. 

•Football 
ticket sales are today at 9 a.m. for the Freshman Class. Sales will run until 6 p.m. Students are reminded to bring their application, student I.D. and remittance to Gate 10 of the JACC. A maximum of four applications and I.D.'s are to be brought by one individual. A chart showing all sales dates appears on today's back page. 

•All 
wrestlers and anyone interested in wrestling must attend a meeting today at 4:00 


p.m. at the ACC auditorium. 

•Off 
Campus lnterhall football players can sign up by calling Steve at 233-3882. 

•Novice 
rowing coaches are needed for the 1991-92 season. All. interested parties should contact Pete at 271-8466. There will be a general meeting for anyone interested in rowing novice for the 91-92 season on Friday at 7:00 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. 


•The lottery for Michigan and Purdue 
student tickets will be conducted by the Student Union Board, not Student Activities as was reported in the August 28 and 29 issues of The Observer. The Observer regrets the error. 
•The 
Notre Dame varsity hockey team will print the ND hockey logo on any light colored t­shirts, etc. at student activities night on September 3rd from 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. 

•Anyone 
Interested in playing ofT campus interhall soccer players can call Paul or Rob at 277-5329. Transfers are very welcome. 

•WVFI 
sports talk kicks ofT tonight from 8-9 


p.m. Call 239-6400 to talk to the players and discuss the upcoming season. 
•People Interested In working for WVFI sports should come to Activities Night or meet in the LaFortune studio tonight at 9 p.m. 
•The NO Martial Arts Institute will start beginners practice on Thursday from 6:30 to 
8:30 and Sunday 5:00 to 7:00 in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Advanced classes will be held Friday 6:00 to 8:00 and Saturday 10:00 to 12:00. Anyone is welcome to attend. 
•An organizational meeting will be held Wednesday September 4 at 7 p.m. in the basement of LaFortune for anyone interested in playing women's ofT-campus football. Questions, call Kristy at 273-1257. 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. (AP) ­The collection of names was impressive, a potential who's who of the NFL. Keith McCants. Cortez Kennedy. Junior Seau. 
For a team with a suspect defense, any of those players might have been a savior. The Jets had a shot at all of them in the 1990 draft. 
They never hesitated when they made the second overall choice that April. They went for Blair Thomas. 
On Sunday, in the 1991 sea­son-opener, Thomas showed why a team relatively deep in the backfield and struggling nearly everywhere else would pick a runner. 
Thomas, healthy and com­fortable in Bruce Coslet's sys­tem, ran a career high 23 times for 92 yards. He had little sup­port from the offensive line on many of those rushes. 
But even when he was on his own, Thomas made progress. Several times, he seemed trapped in the backfield; twice, in fact, by McCants, now a de­fensive lineman for Tampa Bay. Nearly every time, Thomas sneaked through. 
"We designed a lot of plays for him and he came through," Coslet said. "He's got great cutback ability. He's got speed to sweep, he can come out of the backfield to be a pass re­ceiver. He can do it all..J com­pare him very favorably with James Brooks." 
When Coslet was an assis­tant coach at Cincinnati, the versatile Brooks helped the Bengals get to a Super Bowl. Nobody is putting that kind of pressure on Thomas just yet, but Sunday's game made it clear who the focal point of the attack should be. 
"I loved it," Thomas said of his heavy workload. "It got me into the game, got me into the team plan, got me into a groove. 
"I just want to go out and play football. That's what the Jets drafted me for; that's what they pay me for." 
The Jets paid him hand­somely after a preseason hold­out last summer. That holdout slowed his progress, then a series of injuries nearly halted it. 
The Observer accepts class1fieds every bus1ness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. a! the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next·day classffieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
rrust be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

USED BOOKS CHEAPI!!II!!!I! 25% off list price 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books corner of ND ave & Howard 
OFF CAMPUS IH FOOTBALL SIGNUP CALL STEVE 233-3882 
Don't miss Chicago's favorite Irish rockers.. .THE DROVERS. Live in concert...Thurs., Sept. 12 in Theodore's. Tix only $5.00 in advance at LaFortune Box Office. 
NEED A JOB? 
Good pay, on campus. Doesn't 
cut into study timeI Chicago Trib needs carriers, esp women. Call Kathy X4035 
LOST/FOUND 
HELP I lost my football tickets inbetween North Dining Hall and Sorin/Walsh Halls. The seat information is Section 31, row 49, seat 29. Large REWARDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

Found: One large grey garment bag. Scuffed, scratched, and skanky but still intact I Contents include dresses, shoes, jackets, and lacy sexy bras! Call 3270 or 3279 to identify. 
WANTED 
Downtown book warehouse now hiring . Send name, add., phone#, yr./major, hours /days available to: 
P. 0. Box 4621 • South Bend IN 46624 

WANTED: Female singer looking lor musicians to start an alternative rock band. If interested, call Jen Adams at 271­1497. 
My family has disowned me ­Help me get back in their good graces. Please sell me a lew GA's for USC. Karen x3978 
FOR RENT 
VCR, TV Rentals: Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters only $99.95. 13" color TV, two semesters only $69.95. VCR, two semesters, $99.95. For last free delivery, call COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272-5959. 

FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, PHONE, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, UTILITIES INCLUDED. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 272-0615. 
STUDENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO ND. Efficiencies & one-bdrm. Utilities paid. Call 255-9664. 
2 BDRMS, $170/MO., $200/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL 287-2159. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
THE PARTY starts here. Excellent 5 bedroom home. Semi-furnished. Beach V-ball court, private parking lot. Next to other student houses. 234-3831 or 288-5653. Safe area. 
4 or 5 Bedrm furnished house, 
washer/dryer, sand volleyball, 119 
N. St. Peter. 233-9947. 
ROOM FOR RENT-LARGE HOME 2.5 BLKS FROM ND, $290 MO. UTIL. INCL. 234-0873. 
B & B available near NO on football weekends. 271-0989. 
House for rent, one block from ND. professors, staff, or graduates, 650 month, 234-1714 
Student rentals now available. Ideal for graduate students with family. Call 232-5411 or 234-0379. 
FOR SALE 
Couch and furniture lor sale. 
287-0060 
Peavey 130 wan bass amp $275 
x1857 
2 TEN SPEED BIKES.272-6306 
Selling golf clubs: 3-g irons and 1&3 woods. Luis: 273-1528 
NICE FAMILY HOME, 4 BDRMS., 2-1/2 BATHS, FINISHED BASEMENT, POOL & GAZEBO, SAUNA, LOTS OF PRIVACY ON LARGE LOT, $129,900. CALL 272­4109. 
Used Computers: 
Mac Plust2ddtpr 
. Apple llgs wtworks Laptop 386 wthd Man (x1778) or John (277-2176) 
ATIENTION 1 Round-trip Ticket O'Hara­Phoenix lor Oct19-26 (Break) Low price of $150. 
Call Jon #1854. 
TICKETS 

I NEED GA OR STD TIXS ALL HOME GAMES & MICH.272~06 
1 TICKET NEEDED FOR INDIANA GAME. CALL COLLEEN AT 4244. 
NEEDED BAD: 2 or 4 GA's for the Indiana game. Will pay top dollar!!! Call #3372 ask for Greg. 
MUST HAVE INDIANA TIX!III Call 
Steve x2366 
I NEED 2 IU TIX BADLY CALL BILL -4186 
Will trade 2 Mich St. GAs for 2 IU GAs. Bill x4108 
I need I.U. & P.U. TIX Jason x2030 
Need 2 Mich. St. GA's Call Mike at #1694 
NEED 1 GA TIX FOR INDIANA GAME. CALL SHANE X1655 
Football Tickets For SaleIll! 
Call4233. 
4 season ftbl. tix FOR SALE. 
272-7034 after 6 pm. 
Need GAs -6 USC & 2 MSU Jeff 
x3301 
Need TWO INDIANA GAs. Call Lynn at x4940. 
NEEDED: 7 IU tix. Call Ann x2808. 
NEEDED: 2 Tenn. tix. Angela 
x2796 
Needed: 4 G.A.s lor Mich. St. Call David at 277-7767 
GRAD STUDENTS, MBA'S, LAW, ANYONE: '87 ALUM SEEKS YOUR FOOTBALL TIX (OR TICKET APPLICATION!) I'LL MAKE IT WORTH YOUR WHILE.$$$ THANK YOU. CALL COLLEEN AT 256-5099 AND LEAVE A MESSAGE PLEASE. 
ND GRAD NEEDS TWO PITI TICKETS. CALL 4034. 
Need 2 Indiana GA's. Will pay big bucks!!!! Call Bill #3718. 
I need 1 Mich St GA Call Bill x4274 
#@%·!=$ Need Indiana GA tix: steve@2447 
NEED 2 GA'S TO ALL HOME GAMES, ESPECIALLY INDIANA CALL GREG AT x2092 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE 
$$$ SELL ME YOUR MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS. $$$ 
I would like to buy 2 GA's 
Call Julie at x1342 
Will trade 2 TENN. GA tix for 2 MICH. ST. GA. x1323. 
Mich State Stud Tickets Wanted-Will Buy or Trade Call Steve, 277-4749 
Sale:STD TIXS all homegame.Call 283-3932 
I NEED 3 TIX FOR PITI GAME. X 1684 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need I.U. and all other tickets 
call Bill @ X1747 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED GA'S FOR ALL HOME AND AWAY GAMES!! 
CALL JOE X1762 

I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY 
CALL TOM X1762 

NEED TENNESSEE GA . oX. Please help east coast double domer bring his family to an Irish victory. Call Sam at (201) 334-3804. 
NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN. GA. CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR PURCHASE. CALL COLLECT 1­612-227-7577. 
WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY ND HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON. 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS WANTED 271-1371 

NOTRE DAME TICKETS FOR SALE. CALL271-1371. 
NEEDED: 2 GA's for IU game call 272-8735 ask for Shannon 

Need G.A.s for Indiana and Michigan St. Money no object. Call Ron x2157 
Help a recent ND Alum show off his new plaid pants ... sell me your Mich. State tix. Call Jen x4717 
NEEDED: Two GA tickets to Pin game. Parents will pay wellI Call Tim@X4063 
NEED 1 St. TX. for MICH St. CAN TRADE 1 PITI OR PURCHASE. Kathy x3958 
I NEED GA TIX: 4 INDIANA; 6 MICHIGAN STATE. DAVE x283­1545 
I NEED 3 GA TIX FOR USC. CALL ANNA x284-5432. 
I'M BUYING I.U. STUD. TIX Call John x3660 
NEEDED DESPERATELY: 
STUDENT TICKET APPLICATION lor recent grad. Make lots of $$$1 Call x4258. 
Desperately seeking USC or Tenn. GA's. Brian x3883 
I NEED GA'S TO EVERY HOME GAMEl CALL MIKE 1655 
NEED GAs for Mich. St., U.S,C., Navy, & Tenn. Call Tony at 277-6048. 
Need 2 IU GA's for family visit. Call Mick at #2133 
LET ME BUY YOUR STUDENT TICKET BOOK. CALL JIM AT 271-8311 AND LET'S MAKE A 
DEAL.$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
USC GA's WANTED Ill Dad's dying to see ND play before I graduate. 
PLEASE CALL x4227 
PLEASE Ill need just one student or 
G.A. ticket to the Michigan State game. Call Amy x1347. 
Will trade 4 great Mich St. 
G.A.'s for 4 USC G.A's. #1752 
got INDIANA GA TIX? 
I'm ready to pay $$$ call Andy x1224 
I need 2 USC GAs call Brian at 277­6894 
An honest fan with a large family is 
looking for GAs to all games. We 
use all tickets we buy. Jeff 272 
9602 

Need 6 MSU GA's. Mike x1630 
need 2 mich. st. and 1 Ind. tix. call x 2322-mike. 
Need 2 ea. IND studs and ga's. Call Toby 1786 
I need I.U. G.A. tickets! I Please call Jessica at 4818!111 
••• I HAVE 2 IND GA'S ••• WILL TRADE FOR MICH ST GA'S CALL#4036 
NEED TICKETS? 289-7920. 
DESPERATELY NEEDED!$!$! I need 2 GA tickets to the Pin Game. NAME YOUR PRICE Ill Call Mike: 272-0484 
Need 3-4 GAs to any home football game. Call283-2813. 
Need Mich St. and USC GAs call Phil at x2096 
Tennessee Tix 3 stud 2GA Zeke 283-1786 
PERSONAL 
$$$$ Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1563 ATTENTION: STUDENTS! $5.50 HAIRCUTS 
VITO'S BARBER SHOP 
1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
233-4767 
Walkins 
SENIORS! SENIORS! REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. TODAY AND TOMORROW UNTIL 
6:45 P.M. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 
SENIORS! SENIORS! REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. TODAY AND TOMORROW UNTIL 
6:45 P.M. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 
SENIORS! SENIORS! REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. TODAY AND TOMORROW UNTIL 
6:45 P.M. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 

Mony and Jahnelle are lezbo twins !I 
AUDITIONS!!! AUDITIONS!!! The London Program's "A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM" 
September 10 6:30-9:00 September 11 6:30-9:00 in THEODORE'S 
Any questions, time conflicts, Call Kris x1295 
Kelley Tuthill, you are hereby 
warned. You're DEAD!!! 
Happy Birthday...to you! 
To Butly, Bunny, Buxxom and 
Bubbles; 
Thanks for slushie invites; join us lor happy hour anytime on us!! 
IU GAs? I still need many. Call 
Monica at 283-4098. 
I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. 
JOYFUL: i must write quickly, as the FTD guy is waiting for me to sign for the 12 dozen roses that just arrived. The question, however, remains the same: do you hear that phone almost ringing???? me too, love mony. 
joy, mer, mo: you asked for it, you got it. nuff said. 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me lor a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
XMAS IN SEPTEMBER!II "...You'd better not my ..." Only 4 days until Christmas 
MONICA EIGELBERGER IS A HOI LOVE HERBIE 
STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET 
BOOK FOR SALE CALL 284-5027 
page 13

Tuesday, September 3, 1991 
SCOREBOARD 
AL STANDINGS NL STANDINGS NFL STANDINGS
U.S. OPEN RESULlS 
All Tif11e6 EDT All Tif11e6 EDT All TirT196 EDT
Conchita Martinez (8), Spain, del. Zlna Garrison Men 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN CONFERENCE(t2), Houston, 6-4, 6-4. 
Sing lea 
Eaat Dlvlalon Eaat Dlvlalon EaalSteffl Graf (1), Garmany, del. Judith Wiesner, Fourth Round 
w L Pet. GB W L Pet. GB w L T Pet. PF PAAustria, 7-5. 6-4. 
Pate Safl1J'as (6). Rancho Palos Verdes, CaiH., 
Toronto 74 59 .556 Phtsburgh 78 52 .600 Buffalo 1 0 0 1.000 35 31
Double•

def. David Wheaton (11), Deephaven, Minn.. 3·6, Detroit 71 61 .538 2112 St. Louis 70 59 .543 7 112 New England 1 0 0 1.000 16 7Third Round
6·2, 6-2, 6-4. 5112Boston 67 63 .515 Chicago 65 65 .500 13 N.Y. Jets 1 0 0 1.000 16 13Katrina Adams, Chicago, and Manon Bollegraf,Paul Haarhuis, Netherlands, def. Cari-Uwe Steeb, 
Milwaukee 63 68 .481 10 New York 64 67 .489 14 112 ndlanapolis 0 1 0 .000 7 16 Garmany, 6·2, 6·3, 6-4. 
Netherlands (10), def. Glgl Fernandez and Martina 
New York 59 71 .454 13 112 Philadelphia 64 67 .489 14 112 Miami 0 1 0 .000 31 35Jimmy Connon~, Santa Ynez, Calif., def. Aaron 
Navratilova, Aspen, Colo. (2). 7-6 (7·3), 6-1. 
Baltimore 53 78 .405 20 Montreal 54 76 .4 t 5 24 CentralEina Reinach, South Africa, and Anne Smith,Krickstaln. Grosse Pointe, Mich., 3-6. 7·6 (10·8). 1· 
Cleveland 43 88 .328 30 Weal Dlvlalon Houston 1 0 0 1.000 47 17Dallas (8), del. Rosalyn Fairbank-Nidaffer, 6, 6-3, 7-6 (7-4). 
Weal Division W L Pet. GB Pittsburgh 1 0 0 1.000 26 20Escondido, Calff., and Claudia Kohde-Kilsch,Jim Courier (4), Dade Chy, Fla., def. Emilio 
W L Pel. GB Los Angeles 72 58 .554 Cincinnati 0 1 0 .000 14 45Garmany (14), 6-4, 7-6 (7·4). 
Sanchez (14), Spain, 6·4, 6-4, 6-3. 
Minnesota 80 53 .602 Atlanta 72 59 .550 112 Cleveland 0 1 0 .000 14 26Lalla Maskhi, Soviet Union, and Mercedes Paz,Doubtea Chicago 71 61 .538 8 112 Cincinnati 64 67 .489 8112 WealArgentina (13), del. Arantxa Sanchez Vicario,Third Round Oakland 71 61 .538 8112 San Diego 64 67 .489 8112 Denver 1 0 0 1.000 45 14Spain, and Helena Sukova, Czechoslovakia (3), 7­Udo Rlglewskl and Michael Stich, Germany (9), Texas 69 61 .531 9 112 S.F. 62 69 .473 10 112 Kansas City 1 0 0 1.000 14 36 (8·6) ' 6-4.
deL Jared Palmer, Saddlebrook, Fla., and Kansas City 67 63 .515 11 112 Houston 54 77 .412 18112 LA Raiders 0 1 0 .000 17 47Mary Joe Fernandez, Mlarri. and Zlna Garrison, Jonathon Stark, Medford. Ore., 6-1, 6-2. 
Seanie 67 65 .508 12112 Monday'• Gamea San Diego 0 1 0 .000 20 26Houston (4), def. Sabine Applamans, Belgium, arid
Ronnie Bathman and Rikard Bergh. Swaden, deL 15
California 64 67 .489 Lata Games Not Included" Sean!a 0 1 0 .000 24 27Camtlle Benjamin, Baken~field, Calif., 4-6, 7-5, 6-4.
John McEnroe, New York. and Patrick McEnroe, 
Monday'a Gamea Montreal 4, Atlanta 3 NATIONAL CONFERENCEPam Shriver. Lutherville, Md., and NataliaCove Neck. N.Y., 7-5, 1·6, 6-3. 
Toronto 5, Baltimore 4, 12 Innings Houston 3. New YDfk 0 EaatZvareva, Soviet Union (6), del. Pany Fandick, 
Minnesota 9, Cleveland 3 Pittsburgh 9, San Francisco 8 W L T Pel. PF PASacramento, Calif., and Lori McNeil, Houston (1t),
Women 
California 7, Milwaukee 6 Philadelphia 8, Cincinnati 5 Dallas 1 0 0 1.000 26 14 Sl.nglea 
6-4, 7-5. Texas 7, New York2 Chicago at San Diego. (n) N.Y. Giants 1 0 0 1.000 16 14 Fourth Round 
Chicago 5, Kansas City 1 St. Louis at Los Angeles, (n) Philadelphia 1 0 0 1.000 20 3 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario (4), Spain, def. Natalia Mixed Double• 
Detroh 12, Seanle 5 Tueaday'a Gamea Phoenix 1 0 0 1.000 24 14 Zvareva, Soviet Union, 6-3, 7-6 (7·4). Quarterlinala Only games scheduled Atlanta (Smaltz 10-13) at Montreal (Barnas 3·5). Washington 1 0 0 1.000 45 0 Martina Navratllova (6), Aapen, Colo., def. Elna Relnach and Christo van Rensburg, South Tueaday'a Gamaa 7:35p.m. Central Manuela Maleeva-Fragnlere (10), Switzerland, 7-6 Africa, def. Katrina Adams, Chicago, and Shelly CaiHornla (langston 15·7) at Boston (Gardiner 6· Cincinnati (Rijo 11-4) at Philadelphia (Brantley 0· Chicago 1 0 0 1.000 10 8 
(7-5), 1-6, 6-2. Cannon, Gatnesvllle, Fla., 3-6, 6-3, 6-3. 
6), 7:35p.m. 0), 7:35p.m. Detroit 0 1 0 .000 0 45 Bahlmore (McDonald 5-8) at Toronto (Wells 13-9), Houston (Portugal10-6) at New York (Young 0-1). Green Bay 0 1 0 .000 3 20 7:35p.m. 7:40p.m. Minnesota 0 1 0 .000 6 10 Kansas City (Appler 10-9) at Chicago (McDowell Chicago (Maddux 11-8) at San Diego (Benes 10-Tampa Bay 0 1 0 .000 13 16 
15·8), 8:05 p.m. 10), 10:05 p.m. Weal 
Oakland (Stewart 10-8) at Milwaukee (Piesac 1·5), Pittsburgh (Walk 7-2) at San Francisco (Wilson 9· New Orleans 1 0 0 1.000 27 24 8:05p.m. 9), 10:35 p.m. Atlanta 0 1 0 .000 3 14 New York (Johnson 5-8) a! Texas (Guzman 9-5), St. Louis (Olivares 7·5) at Los Angeles (Morgan LA Rams 0 1 0 .000 14 24 
8:35p.m. 10·9), 10:35 p.m. San Francisco 0 1 0 .000 14 16 Detrok (Aldred 0·2) a! Seanta (Holman 11-13), Sunday'a Gamaa 
10:05 p.m. Kansas City 14, Atlanta 3 New Orleans 27, Seanle 24 New York Jets 16, Tampa Bay 13 Dallas 26, Cleveland 14 Philadelphia 20, Green Bay 3 Phoeni• 24, LOB Angeles Rams 14
1991 
Houston 47, Los Angeles Ralden1 17 Buffalo 35, Mlami31 Chicago 10, Minnesota 6 
SAINT MARY'S 
New England 18, Indianapolis 7 Ptttsburgh 26, San Diego 20 Denver 45, Cincinnati 14
SOCCER~ 
Washington 45, Detroit 0 
Monday'• Gama
Sept. 4@ Saint Xavier College 7:00p.m. 
New York Giants 18, San Francisco 14 
Sunday, Sept. 8
SCHEDULE
7 @ Hornet Invitational 
Chicago at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m. 
Cleveland at New England, 1 p.m
Kalamazoo, Michigan 
Green Bay at Detroit, 1 p.m 
Indianapolis at Miami, 1 p.m. 
11 North Park College 7:00 p.m. 
Los Angeles Rams at New York Giants, 1 p.m. Minnesota at Atlanta, 1 p.m. 
13-14 @ University of Wisconsin-Whitewater 
New Orleans at Kansas Ctty, 1 p.m. 
Phoenix at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. 
Tournament 
Pittsburgh at Buffalo, 1 p.m. 
San Diego at San Francisco, 4 p.m. 
17@ Concordia 6:30p.m. 
Denver at LOB Angeles Ralden1, 4 p.m 
New York Jets at Seanle, 4 p.m
19 Saint Joseph's College 7:00p.m. 
Houston at Cincinnati, 8 p.m. 
Monday, Sept. 8
21 Lewis 6:00p.m. 
Washington at Dallas, 9 p.m. 
28 @ Wheaton College Invitational 
NFL BOX
Oct. 1 Chicago State 7:00p.m. 
San FranciSco 7 0 0 7-14 
N.Y.Giants 3 10 0 3-16 Fln~t Quarter
4@ Illinois Benedictine 7:30p.m. 
NYG-FG Bahr 35, 8:14. SF-Rice 73 pass from Young (Cofer klekJ, 12:16.
7 Kalamazoo College 7:00p.m. 
Second Quarter NYG-Anderaon 1 run (Bahr kickJ, 4:55.
15@ University of Indianapolis 7:00p.m. 
NYG-FG Bahr 28, 15:00. Fourth Quarter 
17 University of Chicago 7:00p.m. 
SF-Young 5 run (Cofer kick), 1:23. 
NYG-FG Bahr 35, 14:55. 
29 @ Hope College 6:30 p.m. 
A-76,319.
31 Hillsdale College 7:00p.m. 
Nov. 6 vs. Aquinas College TBA 6@ Calvin College TBA 
Death is forever. Heart disease doesn't have to be. 


is looking for an enthusiastic student to fill the following position: 
Assistant News Editor 
To apply, or for further information, contact: Monica Yant, 239-5303 Applications will be due Friday, September 6. 
Fulbright Competition 1992-1993 
Seniors Interested in Pursuing Graduate Study Abroad are inuited to an informational meeting with aduisor, John Welle(7204) on Wednesday, September 4th at 7:30 p.m. in room 118 O'Shaughnessy. 
U.S. 
Department of State 

U.S. 
Infonnation Agency 

U.S. 
Department of Commerce 



·,
Career Opportunity 
II II Hll~l·l(i'\ SI·R\ I< I \\ Rll II·'\ I \ \\11'\ \ 110'\ 
Mark Your Calendar For 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 9,1991 

Registration Deadlines: 
• 
October 4 for test centers in the United States 

• 
September 13 for test centers overseas 


The Written Examination is the initial step in competing for a career as a Foretgn Service Officer. 
Applicants for the examination must be: 
At least 20 years old on the examination date -United States citizens -Available for worldwide 
assignment 
To obtain further infonnation and an application. contact your Campus Placement Office or write: 
The Recruitment Division-FSWE 
Department of State 
P.O. Box 12226 
Arlington, VA 22209 
.. An Equal Opportunity Employer .. 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, September 3, 1991 
Florida State earns another top ranking 
By NIKKI WELLMANN 
Sports Writer 
Editor's Note-This poll was taken before USC's loss to Memphis State Monday night. 
Florida State captured the pole position in this year's first National Collegiate Sports­writers' Poll conducted Monday evening. 
The Seminoles accumulated 2 2 first-place votes and 66 7 points after crushing Brigham Young 44-28 in their season opener. Florida State edged out idle Michigan, which finished with 610 points. 27 schools participated in this week's poll. 
Miami settled in third place with 583 points after its solid 38-3 victory over Arkansas, while Penn State's performance against Georgia Tech-a sea­son-opening 34-22 victory-earned it the fourth position with 559 points. 
Notre Dame was the seventh best team in the country ac­cording to the pollsters. The 505 points the Irish received put them close behind no. five Washington and no. six Florida. 
Also in action last weekend, no. nine Houston thrashed Louisiana Tech 73-3 as the Cougars' Heisman candidate, David Klingler, launched nine touchdown passes. Houston and Miami face each other in two weeks. 
Notre Dame will face two of the top five teams (Michigan and Penn State) and five of the top 20 teams in the poll. 
Three Clemson defensive linemen suspended 
CLEMSON, S.C. (AP) ­Three Clemson football players have been suspended from Saturday's game against Appalachian State for three separate violations of team rules, coach Ken Hatfield said Monday. 
Arthur Bussie Jr., David Davis and Pierre Wilson, all de­fensive linemen, will practice with the team this week but won't dress out or play in Saturday's game, Ford said. 
Bussie moved from outside linebacker to defensive tackle this fall, and has been listed in the starter's slot during the preseason due to injuries to re­turning starter Chester McGlockton. 
McGlockton is scheduled to return to practice this week after missing two weeks due to a knee sprain. 
Wilson is listed at the same defensive tackle slot, while Davis is the Tigers' second­team middle guard. 
Ford did not say what rules Davis and Wilson are accused of breaking. 
But Bussie, from Camden, N.J., was charged with assault after a scuffle with a university housing official over the week­end. 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE 
American Heart Association 


This space provided as a public service. 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A day after losing to the worst team in the NFL, the Colts looked in the mirror and still felt queasy. 
"It doesn't seem any better today," coach Ron Meyer said after Monday's practice. "We've been there before, un­fortunately. No one likes it." 
Least of all disgruntled fans, who've waited in vain for the Colts to win their first season opener since moving from Baltimore in 1984. The team's opening day losingstreak is the longest in the NFL. 
"Frustrating -that word dominates the scene around this community," Meyer said. 
The latest setback was a 16­7 loss Sunday to the Patriots, who ended their reign as the NFL's worst team after 14 straight losses. 
They may have passed that dubious distinction to Indianapolis, which is trying to avoid a repeat of last season's slow start when the Colts dropped three straight after losing all four of their exhibi­tion games. 
"We've just got to get a lot better," Meyer said. "It boils down to h~>ing able to make and 
I) 191Jl Hewlett-Packan:l Company PG12102B 
Colts in disarray after succumbing to Pats 
e_xecl!,te a given play at a given tune. 

"The problem with us is we don't execute as well as we should. That's the bottom line," said Bill Brooks, who caught four passes for 89 yards and the team's only touchdown. 
Even Dean Biasucci broke down. The most accurate kicker in Colts' history with a career mark of 74 percent, missed four field goal attempts. 
"This whole team needs to get some confidence and get it rolling. We're just having a hard time getting started," said Biasucci, who missed attempts of 44, 52 and 42 yards in addi­tion to having a 48-yard at­tempt blocked. 
Biasucci said that what the Colts currently lack can't be found in playbooks or game films. 
"It comes down to the things you don't see on paper," he said. "It's believing in your­selves and confidence." 

Those intangibles are devel­oped over time, said tackle Bubba Paris, who was brought in from the 49ers to shore up the Colts' shaky offensive line. 
More and more PhDs across the math functions. These free the stu­
country are recommending Hewlett­dents from computational tedium Packard financial and scientific so they can think and interact on a calculators to their students. And higher level;' says Dr. Lee V. Stiff, a for some very strong reasons. professor of math education at North 
Carolina State University.
"The HP 48SX Scientific Expandable has powerful graphics tools that are ·So go check out the HP calculator remarkably helpful to students learn­line at your college bookstore or HP ing mathematical concepts. And retailer. You'll agree, there's no faster with the equation solver feature, it's relieffrom the pain of tough problems.
excellent for applying mathematics HP calculators. The hest for yourto engineering;' according to Dr. 
success.
William Rahmeyer, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Utah State University. J> 4HSX Sd<•ntific ExpandahlP 
FJ/Dfj HEWLETT
"The HP Business Consultant II has an equation solver and extensive ~~PACKARD 
-~-­



J~nSport qu~llty collegl~te ~pparel ~nd bac:kpi!Cks ~re ~vallable at your college store. 
I I I 
I page 16 The Observer Tuesday, September 3, 1991 
Connors celebrates 39th in style 
Overcomes Krickstein in five sets; Sampras advances 
SPOR'IS SHORTS 

NEW YORK (AP) -Jimmy Connors, all heart and guts and daring shots, turned his 39th birthday celebration into a coronation in the U.S. Open with another incredible come­back that sent him into the quarterrmals. 
Connors roared back to win the rmal two sets against Aaron Krickstein on Monday, capping it with a 7-4 romp in the fifth­set tietlreaker, in the longest match of the Open this year-4 hours, 42 minutes of tension and brilliance. 
The final backhand volley into an open court ended the 3­6, 7-6 (10-8), 1-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7-4) duel and brought bows from the frenzied crowd of nearly 20,000 and a second serenade of "Happy Birthday." 
"It was a war," Connors said. "I was lucky enough to win. John McEnroe said it after I beat Patrick, 'It's a Connors miracle right here.' This is what I live for -to win a match 7-6 in the fifth." 
Krickstein, 15 years younger and just as exhausted, played with a blister on his right hand, but didn't use it as an excuse. 
"I can't say it cost me the match," he said. "He hit some great shots. I can't make any excuses. Normally I have a lot of crowd support in New York. But Jimmy's a legend, a great player. I understand that." 
Connors, the consummate competitor, refused to quit just as adamantly as he had when he fought back from two sets down to beat Patrick McEnroe in the first round. 
This time, though, Connors was playmg an even tougher opponent, a human backboard 

who kept pounding baseline shots back and trying to run Connors into retirement. It was a hopeless cause. 
Connors, a wild card ranked No. 174 after coming back from 14 months off because of a wrist injury, continues to amaze fans and younger rivals with his tenacious play. 
In other action, defending 
U.S. Open champion Pete Sampras, showing impeccable timing, is back at the peak of his game and in the quarterfi­nals of the tournament he wants to stamp as his own. 
Sampras overcame a hot start by hard-serving David Wheaton, a Wimbledon semifi­nalist, to win 3-6, 6-2, 6-2, 6-4 Monday and prove that his 10 months of injuries and embar­rassing losses after winning here last year had come to an end. 
He moved as fluidly on the court against Wheaton as he did a year ago in beating Ivan Lend!, John McEnroe and Andre Agassi in the final three · matches to become at 19 the youngest men's winner in U.S. Open history. 
All that was lacking was the pinpoint accuracy and consis­tent 125 mph speed of his serves that he showed then. Sampras chose, instead, to slice and angle his serves a bit more, taking a little pace off them, but still came up with 19 aces against Wheaton. 
Wheaton didn't feel he tired so much as he simply lost the momentum when Sampras solved his serve and broke him in the third game of the second set. 
"In the first set I dictated 
play," Wheaton said. "Then in the middle of the second set I lost my serve once and he got a little momentum. In the fourth set, I was one break too far behind to come back." 
Sampras is finally over the shin splints that bothered him for most of the past year, but he harbors doubts that he'll reach the level of play he showed in taking apart Agassi in the final last September. 
"It's going to be tough to duplicate how I played against Agassi," he said. "But I'm feel­ing good, I'm healthy and I'm confident, so things are looking good." 
He's reduced his practice time and his running regimen and has come to terms with the burdens that come with the benefits of being a U.S. Open champion. Now he feels he's a better player overall, with more experience, more maturity and more confidence. 
"Last year I was not really (considered) a contender here," he said. "I was just working my way through the ranks. A lot of people are expecting me to do well now." 
In another men's fourth­round match, Paul Haarhuis followed up his upset of top­ranked Boris Becker by beating another German, Carl-Uwe Steeb 6-2, 6-3, 6-4. 
Martina Navratilova, knocked out in the fourth round last year, reached the quarters by beating Manuela Maleeva­Fragniere 7-6 (7.5), 1-6, 6-2. Navratilova, seeded No. 6, will next play fourth-seeded Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, who 
beat Natalia Zvereva 6-3 7-6 
(7-4). ' 

ND/SMC JUNIORS 
Join your classmates for a 
CRUISE ON LAKE MICHIGAN 
Wednesday Night 
$25 tickets are available now from 3-5 pm at the class office, 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
-Coach transportation to Chicago -Three hours on the high seas of Lake Michigan -Food, drinks, dancing, and fun. 
Questions? Call239-5117 

-----~----~------~----------­
Tuesday, September 3, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Snyder leads Jays to win; Bo debuts with White Sox 
TORONTO (AP) -Joe Carter opened the 12th Inning with a triple off the glove of right fielder Chlto Martinez and scored on Cory Snyder's single as the Blue Jays beat the Orioles 5-4 Monday for their seventh victory in nine games. 
Carter, who struck out with a runner on second to end the ninth, led off the 12th with drive that glanced off Martinez's glove In the corner. Snyder followed with a single down the left-field line off Gregg Olson (3-5). 
Mike Timlin (10-6) pitched one perfect Inning for the vic­tory. 
Kelly Gruber hit a solo home run In the eighth that gave the Blue Jays a tie at four. Gruber's 15th homer came with one out off Todd Frohwirth. 
White Sox 5, Royals 1 
CIIICAGO -Bo Jackson went hitless In his return to the ma­jors, but still helped Roberto Hernandez win his big league debut as the White Sox beat the Hoyals. 
The crowd of 37,187 came mostly to see Jackson, who went 0-for-3 with a sacrifice fly in his first game since sustain­ing a hip injury in the NFL in the fifth for a 6-2 edge. He broke a tie with Jose Canseco for the home run lead and con­nected off Rich DeLucia (11-9), who has given up 27 homers, tops in the league. 

Expos 4, Braves 3 

MONTREAL-Atlanta lost its third straight game as Andres Galarraga hit a two-run homer and Bill Sampen pitched six strong innings for Montreal to beat the Braves and Tom Glavine 4-3 Monday. 
Sampen (7-4). pitching be­cause Dennis Martinez has a lower back strain, gave up four hits in only his fifth start of the year and his first since April 28. Mel Rojas pitched two innings and Barry Jones struggled to get the last three outs. 
The Braves rallied in the ninth off Jones as Otis Nixon hit a two-run triple and Jeff Treadway singled him home. But Terry Pendleton hit into a double play to end the game .. 
Glavine, (17-9), the major­league leader in wins, gave up five hits and struck out 10 for his ninth complete. 
Astros 3, Mets 0 

NEW YORK -Rookies Ryan Bowen, Rob Mallicoat and AI Osuna combined on a six-hitter to lead Houston past New York. 
Bowen (4-2) allowed five sin­gles and four walks In 6 1-3 in­nings before Mallicoat came on to stop a rally in the seventh. Osuna got his lOth save with two innings of one-hit relief as the Astros snapped the Mets' three-game winning streak. 
Frank Viola fell to 12-13 and third baseman Howard Johnson made two costly errors, giving him 29 for the season. 
APPhoiD 

Toronto's Kelly Gruber hit a game-tying home run in the eighth inning against Baltimore yesterday afternoon. Cory Snyder's RBI single in the 12th inning won the game for the Blue Jays 5-4. 
CAMPUS (OPEN TO ALL N.D. STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF) 
16" SOFTBALL CO-REC SOFTBALL 
GRAD. STUDENTS, FACULTY &STAFFONLY 
TOUCH FOOTBALL TENNIS SINGLES-MEN AND WOMEN TENNIS MIXED DOUBLES 
NOTREDAMEUNDERGRADUATESTUDENTSONLY 
FOOTBALL FOR MEN AND WOMEN TENNIS SINGLES-MEN AND WOMEN TENNIS MIXED DOUBLES FRESHMAN SWIM MEET 
ENTRY DEADLINE: SEPTEMBER 4 
WEDNESDAyI SEPTEMBER 4 
BRUCE KENT, campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (UK) 
"SWORDS INTO PLOWSHARES: POVERTY AND THE ARMS RACE" 
4:00p.m. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
THURSDAyI SEPTEMBER 5 
IGOR GRAZIN, Estonian Deputy, Supreme Soviet 
"THE COUP IN THE SOVIET UNION" 
Cosponsored with the Center for Civil & Human Rights 
12:15 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
INSTITUTE FOR
--·-·I INTERNATIONAL
111111~~;;;~!:~ 
.... 

------~-----------·--------~--­
The Observer Tuesday, September 3, 1991
page 18 
Giants sneak past 49ers 16-14 
Bahr's last-second field goal gives Handley win in debut 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N. J. (AP) -Matt Bahr, who beat the 49ers in the NFC title game last season, did it again Monday night with a 35-yard field goal with five seconds left for a 16­14 win in a match up of the past two Super Bowl winners. 
Bahr's kick, which capped a drive that started with 4:40 left at the Giants 22, ended the 49ers 19-game road winning streak and made a winner of Ray Handley in his coaching 
• debut. He had taken over in May when Bill Parcells re­signed. It was the third straight de­fensive struggle between the ri­vals from the East and West coasts. The Giants have won two, despite scoring only one touchdown in the three games. 
The 49ers had gone ahead 

1:23 into the fmal period on a 5-yard rollout by Steve Young. 
The Giants then reached the 49ers 34, from where a 51-yard field goal try by Bahr was just short. 
The Giants took over again and Jeff Hostetler, who com­pleted 17 of 31 passes for 228 yards and ran five times for 45 more in his first game since beating out Phil Simms as the starter, began to move the team. 
The key plays were Hostetler's 14-yard connection to Stephen Baker, a 5-yard, third-down run by Ottis Anderson and an 8-yard run on a .pitchout on third-and-5 by Dave Meggett. 
On third-and-10 from the 37, Hostetler connected with Mark Ingram, who put the Giants well within Bahr's range. They then ran the clock down before the winning kick. 
Young completed 12 of 22 passes for 162 yards filling in for the injured Joe Montana. 
With the Giants leading 13-7 late in the third quarter, Charles Haley broke in on Hostetler on a third down play and knocked the ball loose. Hostetler recovered, but he was back at the 10. That forced a 32-yard punt by Sean Landeta that set the Niners up at the Giants 42. 
Six plays later, Young hit Brent Jones for 13 yards to the 5, and the quarterback then rolled left into the end zone as guard Guy Mcintyre took down the Giants' Lawrence Taylor, the only man who had a chance to stop him. 
Young also had a 73-yard first-quarter touchdown pass to Jerry Rice, but the Giants dominated most of the first three quarters. Hostetler scrambled and passed them to a 1-yard TD run by Anderson and 35-and 28-yard field goals by Bahr. 
The Giants scored on their first possession on Bahr's 35­yard field goal. 
An illegal-hands-to-the-face call on the Giants' Mike Fox negated a sack by Taylor at the San Francisco 8 and Young got new life. Six plays later, he hit Rice between Myron Guyton and Greg Jackson for the 73­yard play that made it 7-3. 
A 25-yard scramble by Hostetler and a 16-yard pass to Howard Cross set up Anderson's 1-yard TD, breaking the Giants' scoring drought and providing a 10-7 lead 4:56 into the second quarter. 
Bahr's 28-yard field goal at the gun made it 13-7 at half­time. It was set up by a 4 7 -yard connection between Hostetler and Baker. 

U.S. track team reasserts its global dominance in Tokyo 
TOKYO (AP) -Track and field, the blue ribbon sport of the Olympics, was becoming black and blue, the result of some big-name athletes get­ting caught using drugs and a stagnation in world records. 
The eight-day World Championships, which ended Sunday, produced world records in three of the glam­our events and gave the sport a tremendous boost heading into next year's Barcelona Olympics. 
The meet also showed a re­juvenated U.S. team -the complete opposite of the sec­ond-string team that per­formed so poorly in last month's Pan American Games. 
Although the Soviets led in overall medals 28-26, the United States showed surpris­ing strength in events in which it had been declining in recent years. 
For example, the Amer­icans got two medals in the high jump -a gold by Charles Austin and a bronze by Hollis Conway -for the first time in a major championship since 1968, when Dick Fosbury and Ed Caruthers finished 1-2 in the Mexico City Olympics. 
And they won the decathlon -with Dan O'Brien setting an American record of 8,812 points, the third-highest total ever -for the first time in a major championship since 1976, when Bruce Jenner set the U.S. record of 8,634 at the Montreal Olympics. 
Unquestionably, however, Carl Lewis was the star of the finest World Championships ever, although he was outdu­eled by countryman Mike Powell in the greatest long jump competition ever. Powell obliterated Bob Beamon's world record of 29 feet, 2 1/2 inches, set in the high altitude of Mexico City at the 1968 Olympics, with a historic leap of 29-4 1/2. 
Lewis, chasing Beamon's hallowed mark and the 29-foot barrier for 10 years, had three jumps of 29-0 or better and another of 28-11 3/4. 
He also led a 1-2-3 U.S. sweep in the 100 meters with a world-record time of 9.86 and anchored the American team to a world-record time of 
37.50 in the 400-meter relay. 

Campus Ministry 

0MPU5 MINISTRY

• • . considerations 
A group of Notre Dame students spent a whole lot of time this past summer digging two big holes in the lawns around the Old College and the Log Chapel, down by St. Mary's lake. It's the place where the University began and I guess they were looking for artifacts­arrowheads and old pennies and the like-for clues that would somehow help us all to better understand Notre Dame in its beginnings. 
I'm not sure, but I got the impression from the sidelines that they didn't really find too much. And now that they have put back the soil and covered it with new sod and watered like crazy in standard Notre Dame fashion, you can't even tell that they ever tried anything at all out there on that pretty little hill. 
The other day the secretaries in the Administrastion Building all started wearing gold pins with "150 years" printed on them. One lady told me "we've spent so much money on all this stuff already, it would be better if we just built a few houses for the poor instead and forgot all the rest of it." 
I wasn't sure whether to quickly agree or not. I like the idea of searching for our beginnings. I think we need more inspiration for all of our efforts here, more focus for our gifts, more purpose to our work. 
When Basil Moreau, the founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, sent Fr. Sorin to Indiana to start this school of ours, he reminded him that"...our life does not belong to us, but to God who wishes that we live for his glory and his works." 
Let's hope that after all the conferences and the fireworks and the assorted sesquicentennial diggings into our past, we will be able to see some mark on this campus and have a clearer understanding of the founding vision of this university. Perhaps taking the hint from that wise lady working under the Dome, we will find ourselves more 
focused on the needs of the poor. 
First Notre Dame Encounter of the year 
October 4-6 
sign-ups in the 
Hesburgh Library 103 from September 2 -9 
Celebrants for Masses at Sacred Heart Church 
September 7 and 8  
Sat. Spm: Sun. Sam: Sun.10am:  Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. Most Rev. John D'Arcy Bishop of Ft. Wayne-South Bend  
Sun. 11 :45am: Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 





Tuesday, September 3, 1991 
The Observer 
page 19 

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Tuesday ACROSS 29 Defeats 56 Christie decisively mystery, with 1 Frequently, in 
30 Where bovines "A"

3:30 p.m. Presentation: "Introduction to Resume Expert," verse 
browse 

&2 ApprenticePaula Cook, ND Career Counselor, Career and Placement 4 Bath, for one 31 Networks for 
7 Secures &3 Mameetal.
Conference Room. Sponsored by Career and Placement Artie? 
Services. 34 Director Roach 
12 Russ Columbo &4 Busy place in was one June7 p.m. Film: "Nosferatu." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite 35 An indication 
14 Write-ups 
40 Soft endings &5 Catch the idea 
Museum of Art. 
16 Scene of a riot 
41 Water wheel 

9 p.m. Film: "Fatal Attraction." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite && Lacunain Chicago: 
42 Eur. country 

Museum of Art. 1886 
43 Onagers

18 "Alibi-," 
45 Real conclusion DOWN 
1935film 
46 Super add-on 

19 Villainous 1 Alas, in Ayr
47 Particulars: 

once-over 2 --Angelico
Abbr. 20 Chess pieces 48 Large whale 3Whirligig 21 Tack 51 Barber's item 4 Forget-me-not 
LECTURES 
24 A broad finish 53 Witch bird 5 Fille's father 25 Whizzed along 54 Lion's den & "Lost" artifact inTuesday 2&Crumb 55 Mo Udall's a 1981 film 21 African grazer brother 7 Harass aN-Slinks 
noon. Kellogg Seminar: Introduction of the new Kellogg 
9 Gossett of films Hesidentlal Fellows. Brown Bag Lunch, Private Dining Room, 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Tumbler, at
Greenfield Cafe. Presentation, Room C103 Theodore Hesburgh 
times Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
11 Star of 

28 Avant-garde 43Conform 52 Topknot 29 English 44 A Madrileria's 54 Actress Olin physicist­title 55 Pivot 
57 Set of parts inventor: 48 "High Noon," 58 Scale notes 

1802-75 '­
e.g. 
59 Trump up 32 Italian's 49 Bountiful 60 Ja or da diminutive suffix 50 Vineyard: Fr.

MENU 
&1 Psychic inits. 
33 Mall areas 36Roger-,
Notre Dame 
English actor Answers to any three clues in this 37 Towel word puzzle are available by touch-tone Chicken Romano Brassbound's 36 Thumbs down phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ eachBeef Stew with Biscuit 
creator 39 Kind of kick minute).Chili Cheese Macaroni 
Broiled Chicken 
CALYlt AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
IT'S v-1\\EN ~<J\l 't-11\\...\( ON 
"'\'HE ?r>..'JEMEffi f>...~\) 
!'\\)(¥... fl..I.L 11-\E '«Cl~S 
"Oh, my God, Rogers! ... Is that? ... Is that? It is! It's the MUMMY'S PURSE!" 

' 
The Observer 11111111  Come see us at Activities Night: Sept. 3, 7-1 Opm at the ACC or Sept. 5, 8-1 Opm at Angela Athletic Facility OR Stop by our office in LaFortune.  

Sports 

' 
Tuesday, September 3, 1991 
Irish baseball prepares for fall season with three freshmen ready to step in 

By ANTHONY KING Assistant Sports Editor 
The secret is out. Yes,Virginia, there is a great baseball team at Notre Dame. But the real story is the brilliant future on the not so distant horizon for this year's team. 
After compiling an incredible 45-16 record last year, the Irish look poised to improve upon this record with a strong returning team and a group of talented freshmen. 
Last year was a very suc­cessful season, marking the third consecutive 40-win season for the Irish. The Irish fmished up in the polls a strong 22nd, despite being snubbed for the post-season NCAA tournament. Over the past three years the Irish have managed to rack up a incredible record of 129-47-1, which puts them in the top 5 in Division I college baseball for the last three years. 
This, however, is a new Irish team that has been working through the summer to improve upon last year's successes. Junior Pat Leahy pitched in the Cape Cod League this summer, doing well enough to be named to the Top 10 pro prospect list as published by Baseball America. 
Junior outfielder Eric Danapilis was one of the 38 players invited to tryout for the Pan American Games this summer. Unfortunately, injuries slowed Danapilis, and he returned to summer school after 10 days. 
Coach Pat Murphy is excited 

Eric Danapllls 
about the upcoming season, and he has plenty to be ecstatic about. Captain Joe Binkiewicz, a GTE Academic All-American last year, returns after a scald­ing season with the lumber last spring. The other captains for the '92 season are Craig Counsel and Cory Mee. 
Murphy also has a group of impressive freshmen that should make an impact this season. Steve Verduzco of San Jose, California turned down a 
"They are unbe­lievably good kids," commented Murphy . "They are very tal­ented, but they are freshmen." 
professional contract with the Phillies and a scholarship to Stanford to come to Notre Dame. The young shortstop batted .355 with 26 stolen bases last season, and figures to see some action this season. 
Questions abound as gridiron battles begin 
Yes, it's football season again, time to put aside thoughts of innings, base hits, and summer and tum to quarters, touchdowns and autumn-unless you're from a town where a team is still in the pennant chase. 
But for most of us, the World Series is in the distant future, and more immediate questions arise, such as ... 
Could we have any more conclusive proof that Georgia Tech's dream season was just Rene 
Ferran that: a dream? 
And how about Ty Detmer? Somehow, I World of Sportsexpected more from a returning Heisman_______ Trophy winner. 
Where exactly will Florida State stumble in its schedule? The Seminoles face their usual murderers' row, including games at Michigan, Louisiana State, Louisville, and Florida, as well as home dates with Syracuse and Miami. It's virtually impossible nowadays to go undefeated and untied-the last team to do it was Notre Dame in 1988-and Florida State doesn't have the greatest track record as number one. 
Is Houston for real? Okay, so David Klingler went wild against the likes of Louisiana Tech, but how will he do against Miami (Fla.) September 12th? 
And likewise, are the Hurricanes for real? Beating up on Arkansas is one thing, but that matchup with the Cougars in two weeks looms to be a huge measuring stick for both teams. . If the charges against Mirer and D~Bose stick (which is a big iJ), what does that do for Notre Dame s chances this season? 
And it's not just the college ranks that are full of unanswered questions. For instance ... How will Steve Young handle the transition from top NFL understudy to top dog for the San Francisco 49ers? How many bad passes will it take for New York Giants coach Ray Handley to pull Jeff Hostetler and stick in Phil Simms? 
How long will it be before some NFL team gets penalized for excessive celebration after a touchdown-and have that penalty cost them in a game? And how long after that will these silly rules survive? 
How well will teams adjust to Buffalo's no-huddle offensive ~ch~m.e? Con~idering tha~ a number of teams are implement­mg It mto their offenses, It may not provide the Bills quite the advantage it did last season. 
And finally, how quickly will New England be eliminated from the AFC East title hunt? Stay tuned. The answers are forthcoming. 

Pitchers Craig Allen of Franklin, Kentucky and Tim Kraus of Cincinnati, Ohio join the Irish after spectacular high school careers. Kraus was drafted by the Giants and Paul Falia, the backup quarterback for the Irish, was drafted by the Royals organization. Other freshmen notables are Bob LiSanti of Chicago, Craig DeSenor, and lo­cal Dan Adams. 
"They are unbelievably good kids," commented Murphy. "They are very talented, but they are freshmen. They'll have to make the adjustments to be­come Notre Dame baseball players." 
They also are a very talented academic group. Six of the ten recruits had a four point GPA in high school, and all ten had above a 3.5. 
Coach Gary Tuck, a former Yankee, and a manager on the Double A level, joins the Irish coaching staff this year. Tuck served over 10 years in the ma­jors and was an assistant at Arizona State, and should be a positive edition for the Irish. 
The 1992 schedule provides the usual difficult road of top teams to challenge the talented Irish. The Irish face difficult road series against baseball powers like Arizona State, Miami (Fla), and the College Baseball classic in the Seattle Kingdome. Their goal is not modest, however. 
"We want to win the national championship," said an excited Murphy. "We want to be on the mound in Omaha." 

Memphis State stuns USC 24-10 
17-point underdogs hold Trojans scoreless in second half 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Keith Benton threw two touchdown passes in the second half, rally­ing Memphis State to a stun­ning 24-10 victory over 16th­
ranked  Southern  Cal  on  
Monday.  
The  Tigers  outscored  

Southern Cal 21-0 in the second half in the season opener which marked the first football meeting ever between the schools. 
The Tigers, 4-6-1 last season and 17 -point underdogs against the Trojans, 8-4-1 in 1990, scored two touchdowns in a span of 1 minute, 12 seconds of the fourth quarter to pull away from a 10-10 tie. 
Benton threw a 4-yard scoring pass to Jeff Bynum on third-and-goal to give the Tigers a 17-10 lead 4:03 into the final period. 
On the kickoff following that 97-yard, 8-minute, 20-second Tiger scoring drive, Jeff Buffaloe's soft kick landed be­tween Southern Cal players and bounced backward and the Tigers' Rod Brown recovered at the Trojan 18. 
Three plays later, Xavier Crawford scored on a 2-yard run to give Memphis State a 14­point pad. 
The Tigers drew into a 10­10 tie on a 40-yard scoring pass from Benton to Russell Jones 5:55 into the second half. 
Jones broke free behind the Southern Cal secondary and Benton, under pressure from the rush, threw a high pass that Jones was able to run un­der in the end zone. 


Chuck Stobart 
Cole Ford put the Trojans ahead 10-3 with a 29-yard field goal late in the second quarter, shortly after he had missed from 42 yards. 
Reggie Perry, a sophomore who inherited the Southern Cal quarterback job when Todd Marinovich turned pro after his sophomore season, gave the Trojans a 7-3 lead when he scored on a 20-yard run off an option play early in the second quarter. 
Joe Allison's 45-yard field goal for the Tigers was the only scoring in the first quarter, as Memphis State's defense stopped Perry for no gain on fourth-and-3 at the Tiger 27 on the Trojans' first possession. 
Memphis State's defense shut down the Southern Cal of­fense almost completely in the second half, as Perry, who had taken just three collegiate snaps and had never thrown a pass in a game, was unable to generate any offense. 
The Trojan ground game bogged down after tailback Mazio Royster suffered a knee sprain in the second quarter and was unable to play in the second half. Royster gained 97 yards on 20 carries in the first half. 
His replacement, Deon Strother, was held to 38 yards on eight carries in the second half. 
The Trojans also hurt them­selves with penalties, including a holding call that wiped out a 100-yard kickoff return by Curtis Conway with the game tied 10-10. 
Benton, a senior, completed nine of 18 passes for 134 yards and was not intercepted. Crawford gained 55 yards on 10 carries. 
Perry hit 13 of 23 for 155 yards, with one interception, and also rushed 15 times for 60 yards. 
The Tigers are coached by Chuck Stobart, a former assis­tant under Larry Smith at Southern Cal. 
FSV reigns
Florida State is the 1op 
+choice in this year's first National Colfegiate ·Sportswirters' Poll. The Irish 
.~t~ ranked sevehth. See ,jpage,14.
,,.:·:,.·.:· . 








