


VOL. XXIII NO. 121 FRIDAY , APRIL 5, 1991 
~ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students call for instituting course in cultural diversity 
By DAVID KINNEY 
Assistant News Editor 

Students called for the University to make progress toward instituting a course concerning cultural diversity at a meeting between administration and student government representatives. 
One student said that more progress in the area of cultural diversity is crucial because "there is misunderstanding, and, to a certain extent, hatred ... and anger." 
The students, all of whom worked on the committee that wrote the Board of Trustees report on cultural diversity, stated once again that their primary goal is to institute a mandatory credit-carrying course to expose students to diversity. However, they also presented the idea of operating a workshop involving lectures and small-group discussions to set up a foundation on which the University could build. 
The students asked the administration to make some progress, even as little as to form a committee to discuss the possibilities of a required course, within the next month. 


Ahmed: Arab states have trouble in New World Order 
Billy Allen 

38.8°/o 
~· . :f .~rt:;·: :'l~.; .· 
:.'-s.··:..;_. :"'.;; 
The Observer/Kevin Weise 

April fool 
This glimpse of sunshine at the Peace Memorial Monday fooled students into believing that warm temperatures would follow, but thundershowers disappointed them. 


By LAUREN AQUINO 
Assistant News Editor 
The Gulf crisis cannot be re­garded as a purely regional is­sue or as a crisis whose world wide significance is dependent on Arab oil, according to Mo­hamed Sid-Ahmed, foreign af­fairs editorial writer. 
Ahmed, who writes for "AI Abram," a major newspaper in Cairo, spoke last night at a lec­ture titled "The Middle East Crisis and a New World Order," sponsored by the Institute for 

Allen, Certo head into runoff 
By JOSEPH ADAMS 
News Writer 
The District 1 Student Senate runoff election did not produce a winner and another runoff election will have to be held. 
The candidates for the runoff election, which will be held Monday, are Billy Allen and David Certo. Allen captured 281 votes for 38.8 percent of the vote while Certo received 276 votes for 38.1percent. William McDonald received 167 votes for 23.1percent of the votes cast. 
The Student Senate ordered this election because of com­plaints received due to cam­paign violations on the part of Paul Peralez, a candidate for the District 1 seat. The Peralez ticket was removed from the ballot for this new election. 
Allen, who captured the most votes in the original election, was optimistic about his chances on Monday. He said, "My experience and record speak for themselves." 
Certo, who gained 109 votes as a result of the new election, credited his "ability to do more effective campaigning" for his increase in votes. Certo said, 'Tm glad to see people thinking before voting." 
International Peace Studies. 
"More fundamentally, it has become the main testing ground for the rapprochement between East and West as applied to North-South relations," he said. This is due mainly to the deterioration of the previous bipolar world and an emergence of a new multi-polar world, added Ahmed. 
The main ingredient in the East-West rapprochement is in­terdependence, however, in the North-South relationship it is unevenness. It is this inequality 
McDonald, who was elimi­nated from the race, said he was "sorry to see" the results, but promised voters, ''I'll be back." 
744 votes were cast in this election, which was 144 fewer than in the original election. Election Commission Chairman Matt Caito blamed the lower turnout on student apathy. "Students are losing interest in the election," said Caito. 
The runoff election will be on Monday in District 1 residence halls during the same times as this past election. 
Of notions which gives rise to diverging perspectives. 
The East-West reconciliation is built upon rules which ap­pear to be of a universal char­acter, but the South is not oblivious to the fact that they are being formulated by parties in the North which represent less than one quarter of hu­mankind, he said. 
"The wave of liberalization that swept through Eastern Europe...was bound sooner of later to spill over into the Arab world...because of similarities 
A student expressed anger that University President Edward Malloy has formed a committee to deal with the problem of smoking on campus, but has taken no concrete action to deal with the problems of cultural diversity. 
One administrator called for the students to take direct action by drafting a clear proposal and submitting to the Academic Council through the student representative on the council. This action would, at least, place a specfic entity on the floor that could be discussed and revised. The issue must be in place if it is to be discussed, he said. 
Administration representatives, which included Patricia O'Hara, vice president of Student Affairs; Eileen Kolman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies; John Keane, dean of the college of Business Administration; Francis Castellino, dean of the college of Science; Anthony Michel, dean of the college of engineering; Kenneth Durgans, Director of Minority Student Affairs; and Roland Smith, executive assistant to the president, were hesitant to use an administrative mandate to institute the course. 
Mandates concerning curriculum have not been sucessful in the past. The failed Wholistic Health Module was discussed to highlight the problems the surrounding the enlightening large numbers of students about "affective" issues. 
In order to change the attitudes of students concerning cultural diversity, said one administration official, the University must utilize small classes and facilitators trained to deal with the issues at hand. Such complex logistical concerns are difficult to coordinate. 
Students said that a workshop program could succeed in promoting diversity before a mandatory class could be instituted. Trained lecturers and student facilitators could use a variety of experimental techniques as well as large lectures and small group discussions. 
According to students, a program instituted by Erskine Peters, a professor of English, is a. step in the right direction. The program is an effort to expand the topics about which faculty member teach, especially concerning diversity. The students hoped that it could be expanded to involve students. 
The mandatory course, on the other hand, if it were to become a distinct academic department, would involve a long-term commitment. A major difficulty would be the need to recruit and hire qualified staff. 
It was pointed out by one administrator that, in general, such a course could not be staffed by current faculty at Notre Dame. Although many professors may be 
see DIVERSITY I page 7 

in state structure and curtail­ment of human rights," said Ahmed. 
Because they knew it was im­perative to implement a change, a number of Arab regimes in­troduced a degree of pluralism and held relatively free elec­tions, he added. He also said "What finally forced the Arab world to face up to the realities of the new international order was Saddam Hussein's takeover of Kuwait." 
Only in the Arab world has the legitimacy of Sad dam's ac-
District 1 Student Senate 
tions been debated. This is be­cause the Arabs have been ex­tremely frustrated by their in­ability to cope with the chal­lenges put forward by the "new world order." Thus, any Arab leader who even attempts to challenge the West immediately becomes a hero. Saddam felt that because the bipolar world was breaking down he could in­vade Kuwait without outside in­tervention. 
"The solution of the Gulf crisis 
see ORDER I page 6 


-~~--------­

page 2 The Observer Friday, April 5, 1991 
INSIDE COLUMN 

' . 
I 
I 
I 
r 
·'New Kids' give new meaning to love 


Kids make my proverbial liver quiver. 
Sure, I've loved before. There were the Bay City Rollers, there was Menudo, there was a brief fling with "Ponyhoy" from "The Outsiders." But this 
is it. Joe Mcintyre and I 
are soul mates. I found this out when I was doing "research" on my New Kids story on the 
Paige Smoron 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Etc. page. From a list of Joe's "Fave Raves," I learned that his ideal date would be to ... DISNEYWORLD. (Me too!) Also, he hates war. (Isn't this uncanny?) And this is the clincher: his nickname is "Joey Bird." My mom calls me "Paigie Bird." Tell me the karma's not there. 
It was my cousin Amanda who turned me onto the New Kids. Like all other thinking pre-teen girls, Amanda lives for the New Kids. But she's the best at it. She's so good she set up false residences in 7 states just so she could be the president of more than one fan club. 
We get along fine as long as I promise to keep my hands off Donnie. 
I've tried "real" guys. They send lots of roses. But let's face it: movie stars, rock stars, and MTV veejays are better than Notre Dame guys. Kevin Costner would never be late to the dining hall. Mel Gibson would never refer to you as a "skirt." And a New Kid would never throw up in your garbage can at an SYR. 
True, a New Kid might burn down your dorm ... (Incidentally, I don't believe aword of it. Donnie Wahlberg was set up by malicious conspirators to decrease his clean-cut popularity. Possibly Gerardo of "Rico Suave" fame is behind it all.) 
How great would it be if Joe would write a song about me? With a great falsetto part for Jordan? Can I tell you just how tragically short we are of songs with the name "Paige" in the title? (Tragically short.) I don't know why, because it rhymes with lots of words: rage, cage, visage (ha ha, no, not really). 
Please don't write me letters telling me I'm a brainless, one-trunk-inheriting rabbit­sucker. (That's a traditional Shakespearian insult, but then, it might've been over your head.) I'm really quite cerebral (that means "brainy"). I play chess (albeit impatiently). I quote Chaucer (in Middle English). I know what "euphemism" means. 
I've done a lot of educated, sophisticated thinking about the New Kids, and I've con­cluded: they make me happy. 
I hereby sacrifice myself to the group as a permanent love ornament. 
W~y am I so devoted? I think the thing I admire most about the New Kids is their unwavering resolve in the face of pressure to change their moniker from "New Kids" to something more appropriate, like, say, "Slightly Tarnished Young Adults." These guys aren't afraid to stand up for their beliefs. Plus they're really cute . 
. But Notre Dame men need not be totally disheartened. Try donning some sequins, refraining from calling us skirts, and, well, H'm sorry, I can't help it) ... hang tough. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Thursday's StaH 
ProductionNews Rich Riley Circulation
Frank Rivera Jeanne Blasi Bill O'Rourke Siobhan McCarthy 
Melissa Cusack Matt Novak Accent 
VIewpoint
Robyn Simmons Michael Krause 
Charmaine Martinez Michelle Devers 
GraphicsPaul Pearson Steve Burgun Ann-Marie Conrado 

Sports 
Michael Muldoon Rtch Kurz 
Systems
Scoreboard 
Chris Caracciolo Jim Vogel Edouard Beauvais 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
• NEWORK -Five years and countless accusations later, the fight for the Marcos money comes down to two widows: one rich, the other powerful, both seeking revenge. Imelda Marcos, on the defensive throughout her 
U.S. exile, says she's ready to confront Corazon Aquino in her homeland, whether the Philippine president wants her or not. Mrs. Marcos' attorneys say she's intent on returning to her homeland this July. Her will to return is matched by Mrs. Aquino's determination to keep her out. Mrs. Aquino blames Ferdinand Marcos for the murder of her husband, Marcos opposition leader Benigno Aquino, who was assassinated in Manila in 1983. After Mrs. Marcos' acquittal, it tentatively agreed to settle the suit for $250 million. The deal fell through because the Philippine government wanted proof that the accounts Mrs. Marcos agreed to turn over held at least that much. 
INDIANA 
Democrats vote to suspend tax cut 
• INDIANAPOLIS -A Democratic-controlled House committee voted Thursday to temporarily suspend the auto excise tax cut enacted last year and use the money the state would gain to aid public schools. On a party-line vote, the Ways and Means Committee voted 14-9 for the proposal offered by Rep. William Cochran, D-New Albany, as an amendment to Senate Bill 287. The measure now goes to the full House. Republicans, who voted as a block against ~h~ measure, ar~ed Democrats were proposing a $80 ~ulhon-a-yea: tax mcrease to be devoted to public educatiOn, somethmg they and Democratic Gov. Evan Bayh had vowed to oppose. The bill, now on its way to the full House, would raise next Jan. 1 the auto excise tax rates that were lowered at the beginning of this year. 
OF INTEREST 
•All 
graduate students, faculty, and staff are invited to the Friday afternoon club at Alumni-Senior Club today 5 p.m. -9 p.m. 

•Bookstore 
Hall of Fame Game will be played today at 4:30 p.m. on The Bookstore courts. 


•counseline. an audiotape servi~e of the University 
MARKET UPDATE YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April4, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 142.14 Million 208.46 {} 1.06 

S&P COMPOSITE 379.77* • 0.83 DOW JOlES INDUSTRIALS 2,938.61 if11.88 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD if $1 .35 to $360.30/oz. 
SILVER f-7.5¢ to $ 4.063/oz. 
'record high 

. Cloudy early and becoming partly sunny Friday 
•afternoon with highs in the middle 60s and 
· a 60 percent chance of rain. 
•TEMPERATURES: 
H L 

57 48 71 53 Berlin 64 39 :Boston 69 38 Chicago 56 5370 Dallas-Ft. Worth 82 54 
Denver 75 38 Detroit 69 37 • Honolulu 82 69 • Houston 73 64 Indianapolis 57 50 London 52 45 • Los Angeles 90 57 Madrid 57 43 77 69 54 43 79 60 65 40 Paris 54 41 Philadelphia 65 37 Portland, Ore. 60 51 Rome 64 37 St. Louis 71 56 70 50 64 47 63 43 
CAMPUS 

Counseling Center, offers tapes number 50 ­"Understanding Eating Disorders"; 51-"Anorexia Ner­vosa"; and 52-"Bulimia" as a step toward increasing your understanding about these concerns. · 
•Jurors are needed for the Notre Dame Law School mock trials on April 20-21, 27, and 28. Trials will be held from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. Call Pete at 283-2945. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1792:_ President Washington cast his first veto, rejecting a congressional measure for apportioning representatives among the states. 

• 
In 1951: Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were sentenced to death following their conviction on charges of being atomic spies for the Soviet Union. 

• 
In 1984: Kareem Abdui-Jabbar of the Los Angeles Lakers became the all-time scoring leader in the NBA as he reached a career total 31 ,421 during a game with the Utah Jazz. 

• 
Five years ago: An American soldier and a Turkish woman were killed in the bombing of a West Berlin discotheque, an incident which prompted the U.S. air raid on Libya more than a week later. 




Friday, April 5, 1991 The Observer page 3 
University scientists conduct summer lake· experiments 
Special to The Observer 
An innovative experiment continues this summer in a Wisconsin lake to study the ef­fects crayfish and large fish have on the ecosystem in which they live. 
Of particular interest to the University of Notre Dame sci­entists is a species that has re­cently invaded the area, the rusty crayfish. 
Five large enclosures were in­stalled last summer in Carrol Lake in northern Wisconsin, curtaining off these sections from the rest of the lake. This year, in late may or early June, different configurations of crayfish and bass will be added to three of the enclosures. 
The curtains section off areas of 500 square meters each in relatively shallow sections of the lake, from shoreline to depths of·about two meters. According to aquatic ecologist David Lodge, who heads the Notre Dame research team in this investigation, the project is the first to use such curtains to study nearshore ecosystems on such a large scale. 
"We have to work on a scale that's realistic for the organ­isms," say Lodge. "It allows us to examine the entire food web in this part of the lake, putting it all together in one experi­ment." 
Each enclosure contains the typical native populations of fish, lake bottom invertebrates, vascular plants and algae. In one enclosure the number of bass will be increased, in an­other the number of crayfish will be increased, and in a third the number of both bass and crayfish will be increased. 
The other two enclosures will serve as control groups. 
The populations within the enclosures will be monitored closely during the next two summers (May through September) to record changes that take place in the ecosys­tems. 
"One basic goal of the exper­iment," says Lodge, "is to learn enough about the ecological communities in lakes to see if 
DOMINO'S PIZZA DURING THE NCAA. A TASTY SLAM-DUNK 
... 
Call about our 30th Anniversary Special! Employment Opportunities Available. 
CARRY OUT SPECIAL : FOUR LARGE PIZZAS :MEDIUM TWO-TOPPER 

I 

I 
I G t 1 • $~99 : $17991 Getamediumpizza
I w~thao~~gt~P~~~a 1 Get four large I wit~ your t~o I f 1 $f~ g I cheese pizzas I favorite toppmgs I ..or on Y . . . for just $17 99 for only $6.99. 
II I II I 
I Additional toppmgsextra. I Addit'. • • • I Get the second 
1 1 
I . . · e 1
Vllida1~SIOAISonly.No!vaidwothMy-olfoos.c.-nor--1uI -.~. Delivooy areaslimilod to.,.... salo m.mg. <» '*"""""'Y loss.,., 120.00 1 <» '*-'...no1 ponalzad .......,.,... .L UOOG thru 8-15-91 j_ 
Call Us! Notre Dame 

10na1topp1ngs extra. 1 
• for $3.00 more. 
Valid . . I 
-.~~sms ~"'valid •lh.::i'-":'· CtJstomor pays salos1u I Void a1 ~SIOAIS.only. No! vaid Mth arry-o11oos P8I'S saJoslu
c.-_ 
. ~.,. !101~...... :;::~""" 1oos.,.,120 oo -.~-Oohory .....-"'............ crwog. <».,.,.,."""1oso....,120.00. I 
,..._ CM-nnolponalzecla,.._..
------------~~~15-~-~-------------~~~15-~~ 
271-0300 1835 South Bend Ave. 289-0033 816 Portage Ave. 




$699 
1

II II 
I 
1 
1
: ~ 
I 

there are ways we can manage 
the lake by manipulating the 
upper end of the food web. We 
will look at how these natural 
systems are put together and 
what factors are important in 
their structure." 
Three species of crayfish in a 
range of sizes will be included 
in the study, one of them the 
rusty crayfish, an exotic organ­
ism not native to the area that 
has caused a lot of problems in 
Wisconsin lakes' plant and an­
imal life. The rusty crayfish is 
thought to have been brought 
into the area by fishermen us­
ing the animal for bait. 
The introduction of this cray­
fish led to declines of sub­
merged plants and ultimately 
fish populations. Lodge says 
there are three possible expla­
nations why fish became less 
plentiful: 
•competition 
for food-cray­fish and bass both eat small invertebrates. 

•crayfish's 
destruction of plants, which provide protec­tion especially for young fish. 

•disruption 
of spawning-fish lay their eggs on the lake bot­tom where they are readily ac­cessible to crayfish. 


"Hopefully, through this ex­
periment we'll be able to con­
firm which of the three possible 
explanations is really happen­
ing and the mechanisms of that 
process," said Lodge. 
"Once we discover what is ac­
tually happening we can focus 
on ways to reverse the damage 
that crayfish are doing to the 
lakes," said Lodge. "We think 
that will include the use of 
large fish, which have been re­
duced by fisherman, to control 
crayfish populations." 
Lodge believes one of the rea­
sons that crayfish are devastat­
ing to a lake's ecosystem is be­
cause the creature is omnivo­
rous, feeding both on plants 
and animals. 
"Most organisms have more specialized diets," he said. "We're wondering, does this omnivorous capacity of crayfish give them a competitive edge, does it give them the ability to persist even as other organisms are dying out?" 
The rusty crayfish is a typical of invading species, according to Lodge, because its presence has not followed the population booms and busts pattern seen with other invading species. 
Lodge theorizes there are two stable states for lake ecosys­tems: 
•a 
low population of crayfish and a diverse configuration of plants. fish and invertebrates. 

•an 
abundance of crayfish and a low population of plants, fish and invertebrates. 


He believes that heavy fishing of a lake can cause the shift from the first stable state to the second stable state. 
There's only one way to come out ahead of the pack. 

.AmericanHeart
V Association 


---------~~~~~--------------------------~~~----~~~----................. 

page4 
By ANNMARIE ZELL Staff Reporter 
Dennis Cloud, vice president of the Notre Dame MBA asso­ciation, and Coach Lou Holtz presented a check of $ 4368.89 to the St. Joseph County Dia­betes Association Thursday. 
The donation will be used ex­clusively for financial assistance for St. Joseph county residents struggling with the disease. 
Sister Sharon Marie Fox, president of the St. Joseph County Diabetes Association, accepted the donation. 
"We had run out of funds for financial assistance," said Fox. "This is a real blessing." 
According to Fox, the dona­tion "came at a very opportune moment. Being Easter, it's nice to be able to help. It gives peo­ple so much hope to get assis­tance." 
"In the first quarter of this year, calls for financial assis­tance have increased rapidly," said Therese Platt, director of Development and Marketing for 

AN INVITATION TO GRADUATING SENIORS TO ATTEND THE OFF • CAMPUS DINNER/DANCE 
also called • 
THE SENIOR SOLUTION 
FRIDAy---APRIL 19 I 1991 
7 p.m. to Midnight 
at St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall 
Western Ave. at Scott Street 
--SIT DOWN, FAMILY STYLE DINNER --DRINKS --GREAT BANDS 
THE COST: $25.00 A COUPLE 
If you did not buy a bid to the Senior Formal,why not iump on this attractive alternative for atruly festive time? 
ti,kets on sale at the LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK 
the St. Joseph County Diabetes Association. 
Fox noted that, "mec;lications, testing and supplies can be very expensive" especially while the country is experiencing an eco­nomic recession. 
The ND MBA association, consisting of approximately twenty first and second year MBA students, raised the money through entrepreneurial pursuits. Minus the initial costs, half of the money raised went to the MBA association and the remaining half was donated to the St. Joseph County. Diabetes Association. 
For five dollars per picture, before Saturday home football games, the MBA association took pictures of Irish fans with a life size photograph of Lou Holtz. Money was also raised through t-shirt sales, co-chaired by Rick Shalaby, and J.P. McDade. 
Members of the diabetes as­sociation and Coach Holtz con­gratulated the MBA association on their accomplishment. 
The Observer 
"It's beautiful that you (the MBA students) are using your talents and gifts, not for your­self but for someone else," said Fox. 
''I'm glad it has gone so well. I remember when you (the MBA association) asked me and I tried to discourage you," said Holtz. "I said, 'nobody will want to do that. Do something that will make some money.' Think what would happen if you had Robert Redford." 
"Diabetes is one charity my wife and I decided to concen­trate on." Holtz added that many people do not realize the seriousness of the disease and view insulin as a cure. In real­ity, however, Holtz pointed out, "the average life expectancy of a person with diabetes is far lower than normal." 
For the time being, the MBA association plans to continue supporting the St. Joseph Dia­betes Association again next year. 

Friday, April 5, 1991 
UC-Santa Cruz professor to present three lectures 
Special to The Observer 
Jean Langenheim, professor of biology at the University of California, Santa Cruz, will pre­sent three lectures beginning Monday, April 8 at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. 
Her lectures comprise the College of Science's Annual Nieuwland Lecture Series in Biological Sciences. 
Her first lecture, entitled "The Path of Women Ecologists: Progress from the 19th Century to the Present," will be Monday, April8 at 7:30p.m. 
The second lecture is "From Amber to Chemical Ecology in the Tropics,' Tuesday, April 9 at 
4:30 p.m. The third lecture will be on the past, present and future of Amazonian rainforests on Wednesday, April 10 at 4:30 p.m. 
All three lectures will be in Room 283 in the auditorium of Galvin Life Science Building. The lectures are free and open 
Happy Birthday Jenn! Love Barat, Madeleine, Joan and Tara 
to the public. 

Langenheim was the first woman to become a tenured professor in science at UCSC and the first woman to be elected president of the Associ-· ation for Tropical Biology. She was also the_ second woman to be elected president of the Eco­logical Society of America in its seventy-five year history. 
She served on the executive committee to found the Inter­national Society of Chemical Ecology and later served as president of the group in 1986 to 1987. 
Her research is concerned with how environmental factors influence the functioning of plants and determine their dis­tribution and patterning in ecosystems. 
Langenheim earned her bach­elor's degree from the Univer­sity of Tulsa and her master's degree and doctorate from the University of Minnesota. 
Will Jenn have a good time on . her 21st? 
We'll know when we look under the couch in the morning! 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
MIRAMAX FILMS "'-•GIUSEPPE TOilNATOIIE ~ "CINEMA PARADISO'" PHILIPPE NOIRET • JACQUES PEilRIN • ANTONELLA ATTILI • PUPELLA MAGGIO...-SALVATORE CASCIO .. '"TOTO'" --.w.. ?-J ~CRISTALDIFILM • RAIITRE • FORUM,_, LESFILMS ARIANE •U 1FILMS PRODUCTION r:z>....1 :w-~,o ENNIO MORRICONE .,._.,~,.FRANCO CRISTALDI -....~,_GIUSEPPE TOilNATOilE 

Cinema at the Snlte 
TONIGHT AND SATURDAY 7:15, 9:45 


• .. _.. r .-t ' 

Frida~ AprilS, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Polish consolate members discuss E. European market 
BY ANDREA CAVANAUGH 
News Writer 
In order to create a free market economy, the Eastern Europeans must change their patterns of behavior from "Soviet to capitalist," according to Woldzimierz Siwinski, vice president of the University of Poland at Warsaw. 
Siwinski and Maciej Broz­dowski of the Polish consolate spoke of the problems con­fronting the Polish government in the Spring Forum sponsored by the Notre Dame Council on International Business Devel­opment (NDCIBD). 
Gaulius Draugelis, a senior double major in government and Japanese and a native Lithuanian, addressed the is­sues surrounding the current Lithuanian situation, and Paul Shinn, a junior double major in government and philosophy, discussed the solutions to the difficulties of attracting foreign investment in Eastern Europe. 
Siwinski said that Poland was handicapped by a "destabilized" economy. When non-commu­nist forces came to power in the Polish government, inflation was at 1200 percent and the Gross National Product had fallen drastically. 
To challenge these economic problems, Siwinski believes that an entirely new mode of thought must be employed by the Polish people to bring about a capitalist economy. 
"The basic behavioral pattern is simply distributive," he said. "They are not looking for profit. Cost means nothing." he stated. 
In the Soviet system, the workers simply want to fulfill the planned supply, and gov­ernment subsidies provide the 
.. 

When it comes to increasing productivity at an economical price, there's no tool that's more able. 
Meet the Macintosh® Classic® computer. It's the most affordable Macintosh, yet it can handle avariety of basic home, office, and classroom applications, such as word processing and spreadsheet analysis. 
The Classic is acomplete Macintosh. Its monitor, keyboard, mouse and system software are all included, as are extras you might not expect-such as the ability to 
CaiJJ:ble. Affordable. Adaptable. Affordable. Trat1SJX?rtable. Affordable. 
difference. Siwinski stated that Polish policies must break this dependence upon the govern­ment and foster capitalist activ­ity. 
Siwinski sees the current eco­nomic stabilization policy of the Polish government as "pretty good." Inflation, although outrageous by Western stan­dards, is basically under con­trol, exports are good and cur­rency is fully exchangeable. 
"We have no other option," he said. "I am sure there will be ups and downs, but this is our only option." 
Brozdowski addressed the microeconomic problems of the Polish transition to a capitalist system. "Our problems do not lie in lack of skill, manpower or democratic process but in the lack of a good business envi­ronment." 
He saw no network to inte-

NOTllEDAME COMPUTER STORE 
Offi<L' of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hour--: Mon.-Fri., 9:00-5:00 
network and the Apple® SuperDrive"'disk drive, which lets the Classic read from and write to MS-DOS, OS/2, and ProDOS®files. 
The Classic can easily go where you 


need to go, when you need to go there. Its integrated design, light weight and built-in carrying handle are ideal for aperson on the move. 
So come in and see ademonstration. And see anew value in personal computing that couldn't be more respectable. Or affordable. 

grate trade financing, manu­facturing and insurance, but recently, the Polish government has made telecommunications, banking and various computer projects top priority to develop this infrastructure. 
"If American investors are prepared and strong enough...especially now, they can make good business in Poland," he said. 
Draugelis said that although Gorbachev has openly admitted the problems of his country, he has not acted definitively to of­fer real solutions to the unrest in the Baltic states. His pro­grams of glasnost and pere­stroika have been left open to interpretation and became the Lithuanian "catalyst for inde­pendence." 
Draugelis believes that through diplomacy, Lithuania can become a friendly trading partner with the Soviet Union. Lithuania can then provide for­eign investment and a bridge for the Soviets to trade with the West. 
Shinn proposed two NDCIBD solutions to help Eastern Eu­rope convert from a command to a market economy. First, a Citizens Democracy Core would sponsor 7-10 day consulting sessions between East Euro­pean and American business­men and students. They will work together to develop strategies for the development of private companies in Eastern Europe. 
Second, qualified students would investigate investment opportunities in Eastern Europe and make the risks and resources available to the ND community. 
Shinn said NDCIBD did not want to exploit the Eastern Eu­ropean states but instead wanted to aid them. 
Christmas in April extended to two days 
Special to The Observer 

Christmas in April, South Bend's extensive 
volunteer home repair program, has extended its 
work load in the St. Casimir's/Ford Street neigh­
borhood over two days this year. 
Tomorrow, nearly 300 volunteers from the St. 
Joseph Valley Building and Construction Trades 
Council and 60 community volunteers will tackle 
major repairs such as reroofing, rewiring, plumbing, 
plastering and carpentry work. 
One week later on April 13, over 3,000 volunteers 
from the community, South Bend, Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's College will complete a variety of re­
pairs, including painting, plastering, caulking, 
cleaning, insulating and winterizing. 
"We've always done some preparatory work on 
many of the homes prior to the actual celebration of 
Christmas in April, but this year our efforts are much 
more organized," said David Roos, president of the 
Christmas in April Board of Managers. 
"With so many volunteers we wanted to make sure everyone contributed. By allowing the skilled volunteers to go in a week earlier and get many of the major repairs completed, we expect to accomplish a lot more on April 13." 
Now in its third year, Christmas in April helps provide safe, warm, dry housing for preselected elderly, handicapped and low-income homeowners who cannot restore their property by themselves because of physical or financial limitations. 
Sponsored by the City of South Bend, the University of Notre Dame and the Chamber of Commerce of St. Joseph County, Christmas in April expects to complete at least $500,000 worth of repairs in 52 homes in the St. Casimir'siFord Street neighborhood in 1991. 
Of the 3,000 volunteers expected to participate, approximately 2,000 are students at the University and Saint Mary's College. Five hundred are com­munity residents, 300 are members of local skilled labor unions and 200 are employees of the City of South Bend. 
Skilled volunteers will represent the following building trades unions: Asbestos Workers; Bricklayers, Masons and Plasterers; Carpenters and Joiners; Laborers International Union; Electrical Workers; Glaziers and Allied Trades; Ironworkers; United Union of Roofers; Operating Engineers; Painters Decorators and Paperhangers; Plumbers and Pipefitters; Sheet Metal Workers; and Teamsters. 
Last year over 3,000 volunteers helped complete nearly $750,000 worth of repairs in 59 homes in South Bend West Washington neighborhood. 
In 1989, the first year of the project, 43 homes in the city's Northeast neighborhood received over $215,000 worth of repairs. 
The honorary chairmen for this year's event are South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan; Christopher Murphy, president and chief executive officer of 1st Source Bank; Larry Harding, chairman of the South Bend­Mishawaka Chamber of Commerce; and Patricia O'Hara, vice president of Student Affairs at the Notre Dame. 
Christmas in April, a not-for-profit project of the Housing Development Corporation, is funded through a variety of loans, grants and individual and corporate donations. 
For more information, contact Karen Heisler, 239­1616, or the South Bend Bureau of Housing, 284­9475. 

-~---~--­
'· 

,, 
,) 
~ . .
:I 
' page 6
' The Observer Friday, April 5, 1991 
Shuttle Atlantis carries 17-ton satellite into .orbit today 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -The shuttle Atlantis was but­toned up and ready Thursday to carry a 17-ton satellite into space to study the incredibly powerful gamma rays that burst violently but unseen through the universe. 
"Gamma Ray Observatory is truly a mission of discovery be­cause we will be looking at re­gions of space that have not been studied before," said Len­nard Fisk, NASA's chief scien­tist. "You have the real possi­bility of seeing phenomena that have not been observed before and perhaps have not been imagined before." 
NASA scheduled the liftoff for 
9:18 a.m. EST Friday but said it could delay until nearly 2 p.m. to wait out any weather problems. In an update Thurs­day, weather forecasters gave NASA 60-40 odds of getting off on time and held out hope for improvement later in the morn­ing. 

The shuttle will be flying for the first time with new comput­ers, replacing the set that was used since the space fleet went into operation 10 years ago this month. The new general purpose computers have 2.5 times the memory and three times the speed of the earlier ones. 
Air Force Col. Steven Nagel and his crew of three men and one woman will be the first Americans to go into space in four months. They are to return to Earth on Wednesday morning at Edwards Air Force Base in California. 
The astronauts' main mission is Sunday's release of the 35,000-pound Gamma Ray Ob­servatory, the heaviest scientific instrument ever carried in the shuttle bay. A day later, mission specialists Jerry Ross and Jay Apt will put on space suits and move out into the open cargo bay to test techniques to be used in building a space station. 
It will be the first American space walk in more than five years. The last American space­walker, in late 1985, was Ross. 
The Gamma Ray Observatory, or GRO, is the second in NASA's Great Observatory series. The first, the Hubble Space Tele­scope, was launched last April and, despite some disappoint­ments in its ability to look back to the beginning of time, is re­turning valuable scientific divi­dends. 

GRO, which cost $617 million, will be 31 feet long when it is extended in orbit. Three of its four scientific instruments are about the size of a Volkswagen. 
Other observatories still to come in the series will study the X-ray and infrared spectrums. 
While the Hubble does its work in the relatively narrow bands of the visible spectrum, gathering light that originated billions of years ago, the GRO operates at the extreme far end -beyond ultraviolet and X­rays. 
In that range, it monitors en­ergies ranging from 20,000 to more than 30 billion electron volts. Gamma rays are born often in cataclysms that flourish in what appears to the naked eye as the void of the heavens -in black holes, quasars, pulsars and supernova explosions. 
If the actions of gamma rays were visible -the rays do not penetrate Earth's atmosphere -the sky would be a flashing, violent sight. 
"This is a continuation of the second age of space science," Fisk said. "GRO will allow us to observe in the universe the most energetic form of radia­tion, gamma rays, with un­precedented resolution and sensitivity. Gamma rays have been studied before with a variety of smaller 
see SHUTTLE I page 7 

IRISH HEARTLIGHTS 
STUDENTS & STAFF
3 & 6 MILE FUN RUNS 
TROPHIES AND PRIZES FOOD & REFRESHMENTS
THURSDAY, APRIL 11 5:30PM 
SPONSORED BY
ENTRY FORMS AVAILABLE AT NVA, LAFORTUNE AND DINING HALLS 
NON-VARSITY AND FOOD SERVICES 

Friday, April 5, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Opera diva follows own Reilly exhibit begins April 14 
advice to world renown 
By MARK BERRETTINI 
News Writer 
Over the course of her career, 
Martina Arroyo has followed 
her own advice in becoming a 
world-reknowned opera diva. 
"I think the most satisfying aspect of my career is being able to talk to young people and say this is what can hap­pen, " said Arroyo in the An­nenberg Auditorium lecture Thursday. 
"I like to talk about the past and having memories, but memories fade. So for me at this moment, the most satisfy­ing is to have these memories to share with young people," Arroyo added. "But as far as a performance, I've had thou­sands of satisfying moments." 
Arroyo's career started at the age of fourteen at Hunter Col­lege High School. 
"When I started out I didn't want to be a singer and didn't know I could be a singer, in the sense that I hadn't been ex­posed to opera," she said. 
While standing outside an opera workshop for college students, Arroyo was caught mimicking the singers. As her punishment, the director of the workshop made her sing. After she finished, he told her it was good, but questioned what lan­guage she was singing. To fur­ther punish her, the director made Arroyo take the workshop after she graduated. 
Arroyo received a degree in Education and Romance Lan­guages from Hunter College, so her parents would feel more 

comfortable with her decision 
to be a singer. 
"In my family, education was your life," Arroyo said. "I took Italian and fell in love with the literature. At the Met (Metropolitan Opera) auditions in 1958, I was the only singer who could not read a note." 
This did not hinder Arroyo, who took first place at the au­ditions and won a small con­tract to sing with the Met. After a year of small roles at the Met, the director of the company told her to go to Europe and get more experience. The Met called her back in 1965 and "that started everything." 
Over the course of her career, Arroyo has sung in the major operatic centers of Europe, in­cluding Vienna, Berlin, Zurich and the Met. In recent years, Arroyo has appeared more than twenty times on the Johnny Carson Show and on The Odd Couple, where she played herself. 
Arroyo advised the group to keep in touch with their friends and young people as they move on in their professions. 
"We (professionals) should be available to young people to tell them what is out there," she said. "After four years, students may get out and say, 'What have I gotten into?' I guess that is why I'm here to tell you about it. Give yourself the time to be the best in your profession and you will be." 
The lecture was co-sponsored by the Year of the Woman committee and the ND Depart­ment of Music. 

is currently seeking Saint Mary's students who are interested in becoming involved as: 
Saint Mary's News Writers 
We will have an informational meeting April 1 0 at 8 p.m. in Room 304 Haggar Hall, Saint Mary's. If you have questions or are interested but cannot attend the meeting, contact Emily Willett at 284-5086, or Monica Yant at 239-5303. 
SPRING POOL TOURNAMENT 
April 08·09 
MEN'S & WOMEN'S BRACKETS 
GREAT PRIZES 
LAST SIGN-UP DAY SAT APR. 06 
GORCH GAMES ROOM BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 
Special to The Observer 
A collection of 78 outstanding Old Master and 19th Century drawings from the Reilly Collec­tion will be on exhibit April 14 through May 26 at the Snite Museum of Art on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. 
John Reilly, a 1963 alumnus, formed the 235-piece collection over the last six years with the close consultation of the Snite Museum staff. The collection consists primarily of French, Italian, German and English drawings ranging in date from circa 1450 to 1900. 
The collection contains a va­riety of drawings, from highly finished works to studies from paintings and larger projects as well as spontaneous initial thoughts. 
Among the other finished works in the exhibition are an impressive landscape of Val­montone by Natoire, a striking view of the falls at Tivoli by Hackert, and two portraits by the influential pastelists Carri­era and Hoin. 
Studies from important known works include a drawing for Degas' first jockey painting and a red chalk drawing of part of a decorative program by Puvis de Chavannes, which is the most significant drawing in this country by the artist. 
Studies for one of Piazzetta's earliest paintings and a major altarpiece by Guercino also are among the recent discoveries 
Shuttle 
continued from page 6 
satellites and high-altitude balloons, but never with an instrument as large and as sensitive as GRO. 
For example, GRO can detect very high temperatures flowing out of stellar black holes, and thereby verify that these exotic that have entered the collection. 
Among the more spontaneous 
and fluid drawings represented 
in the exhibition are one from 
Fragonard's famous series of 
preliminary drawings to illus­
trate Ariosto's "Orlando Fu­
rioso" and a landscape with 
shepherds and cattle by Cas­
tiglione. 
The development of drawing 
in 18th century France is well 
represented in the exhibition 
with works by Lancret, Wat­
teau, Oudry, Lemoine, 
Bouchardon, Boucher, van Loo, 
Cochin, Saint-Aubin and 
Greuze. David's portrait of 
Baroness Jeanin and her 
daughter and a study after the 
antique are impressive exam­
ples by the major neoclassical 
artist. 

Other 19th century drawings 
include a dramatic scene of 
Christ before Pilate by Girodet, 
an intriguing double-sided 
sheet by Gericault, portraits by 
Boilly and Lehmann, landscapes 
by Corot, Millet, Daubigny, and 
Pissarro, and a study of a ballet 
dancer by Degas. 
A sheet by Raimondi is the 
earliest Italian work in the ex­
hibition. Other significant Ital­
ian drawings include studies for 
major projects by Tibaldi, Ricci, 
Maratta, and Diziani, ceiling 
studies by Gaulli and Carlone, 
and dramatic figural groupings 
by Giovanni Battista and 
Giovanni Domenico Tiepolo. 
Included in the German selec­
tion are rarely seen landscapes 
objects do exist. The observa­tory will resolve questions of how matter was distributed through the universe and about the processes that followed the "Big Bang," which is believed to have created the universe. 
On their space walk, Ross and Apt will test three prototype cart designs being evaluated for transporting astronauts around the outside of a space station. 

Study Social Sciences in London 
Study Year Abroad, Postgraduate Diplomas, One-Year Master's Degrees and Research Opportunities in the Social Sciences. 
Subjects include:­

Accounting and Finance • Actuarial Science • Business 
Studies • Economics • Econometrics • Economic 
History • European Studies • Geography • Government • 
Health Planning • Housing • Industrial Relations • 
Information Systems • International History• International 
Relations • Law • Management • Operational Research • 
Philosophy, Logic & Scientific Method • Population Studies 
Politics • Regional & Urban Planning • Sea Use Policy • 
Social Administration • Social Anthropology • Social Plan­
ning in Developing Countries • Social Work • Sociology• 
Social Psychology • Statistics & Mathematical Sciences • 

Application forms from: Assistant Registrar (CASS), Room H616, London School of Economics and Political Science Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England stating whether undergraduate or postgraduate 
by Koch, von Rohden, and Men­
zel. and extraordinary portraits 
by Cornelius and Winterhalter. 
1\vo major English drawings in 
the exhibition include a pair of 
"Visionary Heads" by Blake and 
a recently discovered scene 
from the "Bacchae" of 
Euripedes by the Romantic 
artist Fuseli. 
A fully-illustrated catalogue 
with extensive information and 
discussions on each of the 
drawings will be available 
through the museum shop. The 
entries have been researched 
and written by Stephen Spiro, 
chief curator, and Mary Frisk, 
assistant curator, with addi­
tional essays by the art histori­
ans Marjorie Kinsey and Marcia 
Rickard. 
A number of the drawings in 
this catalogue never have been 
published or thoroughly re­
searched. Snite administrators 
hope that the exhibition, in 
conjunction with the catalogue, 
will prompt further research 
and disseminate the images for 
those scholars and the general 
public who are not aware of 
this continually developing col­
lection. 
There will be a reception for 
the opening of the exhibition 
April 14 (Sunday) from 2 to 4 
p.m. Museum hours are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Sat­urday and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday and 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Thursday (when classes are in session). The museum is closed Monday and all major holidays. Admission is free. 
The space walk is scheduled to last six hours. 
Atlantis also will carry a package of instruments to measure contamination in its cargo bay during launch. Sev­eral secondary experiments are on the middeck, and the crew will take part in a ham radio experiment in which the astro­nauts will contact amateur ra­dio operators around the world. 
Diversity 
continued from page 1 
exposed to the issue of cultural 
diversity, they may not be able 
to teach it. 
Students emphasized that the University needs something now. It was suggested that the non-academic, non-credit workshops be used as a foun­dation and a transitionary measure on which further mea­sures could be built. 
"The University has the op­portunity to take the forefront on the issue of diversity," said one student. 
The group also addressed the problem of the lack of retention of ethnic American students at the university. Only 7 5 percent of ethnic American students graduate from the University, as opposed to 90 percent over­all. In addition, 29 percent of ethnic American students left the colleges of engineering and science before the end of their freshman year. 
Freshman Year of Studies is using counseling, tutoring, one­on-one work, and other pro­grams in order to curtail these problems. Six-week summer programs have been instituted in order to give students a head start in college court work, especially in engineering and science. A pre-calculus course has been investigated. and the Learning Resource Center has hired a specialist to aid stu­dents in science and engineer­ing. 
One administrator promised that more will be done to ad­dress the issues of diversity in the Freshman Year of Studies. 

Viewpoint
page 8 

I 
I I 
tl' 
·' 
·¥ 
:~ 
' ·~ 
~ 
.'1 
'~ 
,I 
~ 
( 
l l l 
} 
l 
l 
I 
I J 
I 
i 
1 
as provincial conservatives who are interested in nothing other than oppressing women, mi­norities, and homosexuals. I · would like to remind him that many of us have progressive voting records. Furthermore, the charge of provincialism is completely dishonest. Within the tradition of Western thought are contained various political, economic, religious, and ethnic points of view. The tradition that Mr. Mills himself belongs to is Western, for the concept of the equality of all individuals, either before the law or before God, is a Western concept. 
I'm sure Mr. Mills agrees with this. Within the canon of West­ern literature may be found monarchists, democrats, com­munists, atheists, saints, sin­ners, men and women (Mr. Mills may check it for himself: both Jane Austen and George Eliot are on the Great Books list at the University of Chicago, the den of iniquity where the whole idea started). 
Furthermore, the influence of Western writers on what all of us raised in American civiliza­tion do and think is undeniable. The thoughts of eighteenth­century Enlightenment thinkers 
DOONESBURY 

Friday, April 5, 1991 

probably been influenced by Bertrand Russell or Jean-Paul Sartre. And did not the scien­tific insight of Copernicus, Newton, Galileo, and Einstein completely revolutionize the entire world? Whom did Chi­nese students emulate before government tanks slaughtered them? 
I firmly believe in the intellec­tual virtues of studying non­Western peoples. They are our brothers and sisters in human­ity, and our neighbors in the community of the world. But how can students understand foreign peoples without under­standing themselves? If any of my students rejects any of the ideas in the Western tradition, at least they know what they are rejecting. I do.ubt if Mr. Mills does. 
I must aver that education, like charity, begins at home. We need to know where we come from intellectually, before we can understand anyone else. Even the partial understanding of other cultures is the fruit of understanding one's own. 
Robert W. Shaffern Core Curriculum March 27, 1991 
Dear Editor: 
I feel compelled to respond to a letter by Mr. Scott (The Ob­server, 2/28) which stated that Christianity and warfare are not contradictory. The line of thought in his brief letter left me boggled. For Mr. Scott: "Some claim rightly that the Gospel and war contradict each other but then conclude wrongly that a Christian cannot support a war." 
He does not seem to feel a need to further explain this seemingly self-contradictory statement other than to imply that the Gospels are not meant to "answer every problem in the world." While I do not maintain that the Gospels were written as a "manual of answers," I do believe that Christianity pro­vides the spiritual grounding for the best action in all situations. 
To imply that Jesus only cov­ered certain areas of truth, leaving others wholly up in the air, is both erroneous and dan­gerous. To claim that Christian­ity is somehow insufficient is· to say that we will accept Christianity when it gives us the answers we want, but when it gives us difficult answers we will simply say that it is out of its element and we must take over from there. 

Unfortunately, this seems to be a common human flaw ­from the Pharisees to modern day. to say that Jesus never spoke on the dangers of nuclear war and thus Christianity has nothing to add to the debate is pure folly. Jesus did not teach as Aristotle did, trying to algo­rithmically explore all possible situations. Instead, he preached a spirit of truth, the spirit of God that will always lead us rightly. 
We try to avoid this by saying such things as "Things are much more complicated now." And indeed they may be. but to make addendums to Christianity in our own interests is ulti­mately a testimony to a lack of faith in that spirit of truth, a clinging to our own desires over the will of God who is truth. We gush over the nice phrases of Christianity and quickly glance away from the implications and challenges. 
"Love one another...": are we loving the Iraqis, the 150,000 of them that we killed? No, I will admit that it is not all that easy, but neither is the excuse of self­defense as neat and tidy as 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
many tout it to be. I simply can't imagine Jesus with an M-16 in his hands. I ask you to listen and question, open to the spirit of truth, challenge, don't simply rationalize; we must allow ourselves to be taught by Jesus (his words in the Gospels and his Word in our hearts). He calls each of us and we must respond as best we can. 
"You have heard the com­mandment, 'You shall love your countryman but hate your en­emy.' My command to you is: love your enemies, pray for your persecutors. This will prove that you are sons of your heavenly Father, for his sun rises on the bad and the good, he rains on the just and the un­just. If you love those who love you, what merit is there in that? Do not tax collectors do as much? And if you greet your brothers only, what is so praiseworthy about that? Do not pagans do as much? 
In a word, you must be made perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect." 
Michael Newhouse St. Edward's Hall March 25,1991 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'When you stop giving and offering something to the rest of the world, it's time to turn out the lights' 
George Burns 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 
BOOPS/13, U3T'5 TALK FOR A MINIJ'm ABOUT 
7He OiANf£5 YOU'V8 




Viewpoint
Friday, April 5, 1991 page9 

Bridget Bobick Guest Columnist 

moments before the big event was to begin. Wide-eyed and full of anticipation, I awaited my first English pre-registra­tion, only to be somewhat dis­appointed. 
The ordeal was not nearly as strenuous as my first impres­sion would indicate. Only one person passed out from sheer exhaustion (and too much beer). As he laid pitifully at the end of the hall, I wondered what was wrong. Maybe English regi!?tration is too soft. Obviously, English majors are too virile and athletically in­clined: mere sleep deprivation is not enough. Next year, in­stead of one lone student in agony, I want to see more. Out­law the futons, the pillows and the blankets! I want to step tri­umphantly over the weak. Third floor of 0' Shag has such po­tential for becoming a true test of endurance. Let the campus, the world know that English majors are a rare and tough group of students like no other. 
When it was all over, I experi­ence a thorough sense of ac­complishment, similar to how I imagine finishing a marathon would feel. On second thought, pre-registration has got to be better. At the end of a marathon, what reward is there? Sore muscles? A t-shirt? I, however, now have British Lit II and Comparative Studies in Modern Poetry. What a rush! 
.... And to that person who cut in front of me and five other people at 9:35-·-watch your­self. I understand that the om­niscient spirit of Shakespeare avenges such unscrupulous conduct. 
Bridget Bobick is a Junior enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters. 
It takes guts to be an English major. "No wimps need apply" should be the slogan in the re­cruitment books sent to prospective Domers. While other students strain to dial their PIN numbers, English majors rebel against technology and modernization. Anxiously, we await each semester's pre­registration test of endurance. 
Rumor has it that this week, the dedicated group in the front of the line pitched camp around 4pm Monday, 14 hours before registration was to begin. And not just any Monday; this was Easter Monday, an official Notre Dame holiday. Unfortunately, no one ( to my knowledge) had to miss Easter. But there's always next year! I imagine Mass held on third floor of O'Shag for overzealous English majors. I wonder if the Honey Baked Ham Company delivers ... 
Overall, the experience was a memorable and beautiful ex­pression of commitment to the English major. I have never seen anything like it. When I arrived at 6am Tuesday, sleep­ing bags and masses of people spanning the entire third floor. Carefully, I descended the crowded stairway and took my place in line on the second floor 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Single-sex housing helps avoid 'carnal temptations' 
Dear Editor: I even had trouble accepting the fact that my inability to 
I write in response to Paul become friends with a woman Corintha's letter regarding the obviously stems from a truthfulness of co-ed housing universal, inexplicable, proponents' motives (Observer FRIENDSHIP CRISIS! Of course! 4/2/91). I really envy you It's my own "rampant Paul...while you reflect on the materialistic individualism" 
"most important truths" of life that hinders me, not the gentle, that Notre Dame has enabled patriarchal single-sex housing you to master, there are some legislation of morality that N.D. 
of us who are forced to settle has so generously imposed. for the shallow learning that we But no, thanks to you Paul, 
derive from our superficial my eyes have been opened! The (and most likely implicitly sexu­masquerade is over; no longer ally perverse) interaction with will I fight that little voice in­friends/acquaintances of dan­side that constantly reminds me gerously diverse genders! of the danger being with a You're right -I've got to wake woman between 2am and up, recognize the utopia that 11 am. I'm here to learn from 
surrounds me, and become (A) Books, and (B) Men, not to 
more like. you. I'm certain that expose myself to mortal occa­with your proud "greatest uni­sions of sin. Gosh, maybe if I versity in the land" mentality moved off-campus like you such 
the evil carnal temptations moral pitfalls could be better espoused by all of those avoided ... "fornicators" out there repre­
sent little or no obstacle on Christopher Norborg · your "path to wisdom." I mean, St. Edward's Hall what was I thinking! For a time April 3, 1991 

Dear Editor: 
Upon reading the paper last Friday, I came upon an ad I see often in the Observer: 
"We'd like to remind you that the uncensored con­tent of this newspaper is made possible by the constitution of the United States. The Constitution-The words we live by." 
It's a nice thought: however, I think the Observer should stop running it, for it is untrue. There is a certain group on campus U won't write their name or you might not be al­lowed to print my letter) whose ads are indeed subject to cen­sorship. Their censored ads are even more effective than the uncensored ones-yet they are censored all the same. 
Therefore, I think you should put this little ad aside and use it when and if the administration gains a better perspective on the matter. 
Kirsten M. Dunne Siegfried Hall March 25, 1991 


Senate candidacy misunderstood 
Dear Editor: upon a misguided assumption actions of Paul Peralez. 
I am writing in regard to the considering his color, not his Furthermore, I would like to recent developments in the Stu­character. criticize The Observer's cover­dent Senate elections for the. What goes unnoticed is the age of this election. It has South Quad. Most likely, many fact that his actions have been slanted the coverage to make have read or heard about the above reproach, abiding by all Paul Peralez look like the vic­behavior of Paul Peralez. But, election procedures. A new tim. It has, in addition, refused few have heard about the be­election, chosen to be the to allow Billy Allen to defend his havior of Billy Allen, partially amicable solution, will position, clear his name or because he has not gone out of necessarily be a time for Allen respond to the accusations of his way to break election rules. to rebuild his reputation, Peralez. So much for an unbi­
Wrongly portrayed as the instead of focusing on issues ased media. spokesman for SUFR, Allen has that concern the voters of the Jeff Wilson been forced to confront its South Quad. Clearly, Billy Allen Alumni Hall negative image head-on based is being punished for the April 2, 1991 
Ceremony needs improvement 
Dame, a major university, be a concern. Can't have Bill
Dear Editor: 
This week, 1991 graduates thinks its grad!lates, who have Cosby sitting around for a cou­are being measured for just paid over $70,000 for an ple of extra hours while 2000 academic garb. At last year's education, should look like high graduates are individually con­
school graduates at their ferred, can we? But shouldn't
commencement, I was 
commencement. the real stars of the day get
underimpressed by certain 
their opportunity on stage? This
aspects of the ceremony, in particular the treatment of the The ceremony fails to empha­could be accommodated by baccalaureate graduates. One size the real stars of the day. having several ceremonies. 
There is so much emphasis on Every year the administration
of them were wearing hoods, 
which of course, include the putting on a show (and indeed expresses concern about some colors of one's college. I asked a it was impressive) that the real graduates treating the com­
reason for the convocation, the · mencement ceremony with dis­
faculty member why, and he informed me that because they conferring of degrees, is lost in respect. I suggest that, in the 
the crowd of honorary doctor­quest for publicity, that the
can be a little hassle, it is easier University has sold out the cer­
not to have them. I wore a hood ates and guest speakers. The 
conferring of degrees upon emony. And if they no longer
for my baccalaureate 
baccalaureate graduates is treat the commencement with
commencement and would 
have resented anybody done, as if with a magic wand, the respect it deserves, why implying I was incapable of upon all the students of a col­should they expect likewise lege at the one time, and is over from the graduat-:s?
pinning it on. Baccalaureate 
before one realizes it. The indi­
graduates of many other 
vidual photo opportunity of the
colleges and universities do 
wear hoods, including grad­graduate receiving his or her Ulick Stafford degree by hand from the presi­Off-Campus
uates of Saint Mary's. 
dent is lost forever. Time may
It seems strange that Notre April 1 , 1991 


-~--1------~ --~--~-__,.....,.,.._____........___._.~-~--11111111!..........

'\ 
' (
~I. 

APRIL 5-7 
MUSIC Bye Bye Johnny, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m. Bedspins, McCormick's. 10:00 p.m. The Flah, Club 23, 10:00 p.m. Mr. E, Bridgers, 10:00 p.m. 
EVENTS 

33rd Collegiate Jazz Festival, Stepan Center. 7:30p.m. ''The Marriage of Figaro," Benedix Theatre in Century Center, 7:30p.m., $10. 
sa 
MUSIC 

EZ Ed Wright and the Soul Sounds, Center Street Blues, 9:30p.m. The Fish, Club 23, 10:00 p.m. Smear, Grace Coffeehouse, 9:00p.m. 
EVENTS The Undance, South Dining Hall, 8:00 p.m. 33rd Collegiate Jazz Festival, Stepan Center, 1:00 
& 7:30p.m. 

s 
y 
EVENTS "AH that I am," Inspiring Women's Stories From our Past, Hesburgh Library Auditorium, 2:00 p.m. · 

FRIDAY 

"Cinema Paradiso," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. "Jungle Book," Cushing Auditorium, 8;00 & 10:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY "Cinema Paradiso," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. "Jungle Book." Cushing Auditorium, 8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 

"Mr. and u.... Bridge," 7:00 &9:30p.m. "The Perfec1 WMpOn," 7:10 & 9:10p.m. "Dances with Wolves," 8:15 p.m. 
"The Doors," 8:00 p.m. "New Jack City," 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. "The 5 Heartblata," 7:15 & 9:40 p.m. 
Donnie Wahlberg, the first me~er of the group, cultivates an Image somewhere between Vanilla Ice and Shaggy. He's the bad boy, the militant rap stud, and has been involved in several well-publicized fights sometimes with young women ' 
Donnie hangs with Flav~r Flav of Public Enemy, and is usually captured snarling on 
•

film. "I don't want people to see me as pop star of New Kids on the Block goody-two-shoes wholesome boy." 
At the same time, Donnie is the most outspoken against drugs. "Peace out! Say no to drugs." 
Nickname: Dennis Cheese ~hoe Size: 8 Self-description;
Tons of fun." 


. Jonathan Knight, Jordan's · 
··· brother, is known as the quiet sensitive member of the group: I And chicks dig him --including the pop teenage singer. Tiffany. Maybe the allure has some­t~ing to do with his depth, and his lofty life goals: "I always • wanted to be the handsome : dude." Then again, maybe not. i Keep your eye on Jon at the . concert, there are sure to be · 
som~ snappy sweater changes. 
Nickname: GQ. Shoe Size: 10 
1/2 Pet Peeve: Eggs. Worst 
quality: "Nothing." 
• 
Danny Wood is the Tra­volta-esque primo dancer in the band; before he joined the New Kids, he was involv­ed in several break-dancing groups. 
Danny likes to lift in his spare time and is an avid reader of "Flex" magazine. His better photographs fea­ture his biceps. 
Also, Danny was an A stu­dent, and he has deferred a 4-year scholarship to Boston University until he has some time off from touring. 
Nickname: Puff McCloud. Shoe Size: 8 1/2 Most prized moments: "The time I spend with my mom!" 


page 11 


• • • 
Joseph Mcintyre, 18, is the youngest of the group, and is by far the dreamboatiest. 
Joey was recruited for the group to be a Michael Jackson-type singer who would appeal to a pre-teen audience, and he sang their first real hit, "Please Don't Go Girl." Unfortunately, by the time the record hit, his voice had changed. Now he sings it an octave lower. 
Most embarrassing quote: ''I'm gonna get hooked up with Madonna and she's gonna fall head over heels for me." 
• 
Nickname: Joey Joe, Joe Bird. Shoe Size: 8 1/2. Pet Peeve: War. 
Jordan Knight is arguably the only New Kid who can actually sing. His experience in choirs has given him a distinctive falsetto and the ability to carry the group'svocals. 
Jordan also has the moves. When he dances, his feet are a blur. And when he croons "I'll be loving you forever ... " it's ac-companied by a swoon­inducing, tender, vulnerable 
gaze. 

Jordan's Donny Osmond charisma makes hearts palpi­tate here at Notre Dame and all over the world. 
Nickname: J. Worst habits: "I bite my nails and put ketchup on everything." Favorite play: Julius Caesar. 
• 

By PAIGE SMORON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
They're h-ot. They're hip. They're permanently on the cover of "Teen Beat." But more importantly, they're almost here. And quite frankly, I think I'm going to scream. 
Hysterics are the customary reaction to New Kids on the Block, at least on the part of their pre-adolescent fans. And on Sunday, Notre Dame will have its chance to scream at them. 
Okay, they don't even play in­struments. But they do perform at least 50% of their concerts live. And if nothing else, they're not bad to look at. 
To their credit, the New Kids take advantage of their popu­larity by making a conscious effort to be good role models for their fans. They emphasize an anti-drug message at all times, and also have been quoted on subjects like the en­vironment and world peace. 
However, their squeaky-clean image has not emerged entirely unscathed. The Globe ran a story by one of the New Kids' ex-groupies, entitled "My Nights of Kinky Sex with Nude Kids on the Block." 
Also, an ugly controversy has been surrounding this tour. Donnie Wahlberg, the unofficial front man of the group, has been brought up on charges of arson, which carries with it a potential of 20 years to life in jail. Presumably, his action fig­ure will come out with a new line of prison garb. 
In addition to Donnie, there are four more sequined studs: Jordan, Jonathan, Danny and Joseph. Pick out the one most pleasing to the eye. It's best to concentrate on screaming one name, and later you can mur­mur it feverishly after you've fainted. 
I'll take Joey. 
:UW ;; I Q _§_ §! as & a CZ& 2 a J . A 
-~~--_,---------~, ..
.-,"' 
Friday, April 5, 1991
page 12 The Observer 
Can death be called the mother of beauty? 
52 p 
"A few years ago," wrote 
critic says, "Man without myth, than the human eye can see. Flannery O'Connor in an essay without God, without anything Lately, I've been reading Bon­on the Catholic novelist in the Father Robert Griffin but the universe which has pro­hoeffer, the German pastor South, "a preacher in Tennessee duced him, is given an extraor­who died as Hitler's prisoner in attracted considerable atten­Letters to a Lonely God dinarily pure and touching 1945. He wrote: We cannot be tion when he sacrificed a live grandeur." Another critic has honest unless we recognize that lamb chained to a cross at his called the poem "the hedonist's we have to live in the world Lenten revival service. It is pos­love.'' greatest agnostic poem in the 'Elegy in a Country Church­"etsi deus non daret," which sible that this was simple But once the children had English language; in it, a mid­yard.'" means, "as if God did not ex­showmanship, but I doubt it. I murdered the unicorn, dle-aged woman, realizing that ist." "God would have us know presume that this was as close "everything began to be horri­it is Sunday, goes, in her imagi­Stevens became a Catholic on that we must live as men who to the Mass as that man could ble, and the once beautiful ani­nation, to ancient Palestine, his death bed; but it's his ag­managed our lives without Him. come." mal was spoiled and repulsive. and meditates on the Crucifix­nosticism I've tried to put you The God who is with us is the 
When a poor little lamb gives All three of them loved the uni­ion. To her it seems an old, un­in touch with. Wordsworth told God who forsakes us ... God lets up its life in vain, it's called corn in their various ways, and happy, far-off event: why, she us we might be better off as himself be pushed out of the butchery, not sacrifice. The in proportion as they became thinks, should she involve her­pagans "suckled in a creed world onto the cross. He is blood of the lamb shed by the responsible for spoiling its self in a death that happened outworn," than to lose touch weak and powerless in the preacher couldn't save anyone; beauty, so they began to hate it two thousand years ago? with the beauty of the natural world, and that is precisely the 
and if our salvation depended for their guilt. world. As Catholics, I hope you way, the only way, in which he on such an act of cruelty to a Dostoyevski noted how diffi­The woman is content with grow old having lovers' quar­is with us and helps us ... Christ dumb, innocent animal, who cult it must have been for the the beauty of the natural world. rels with the Church; but in helps us, not by virtue of his would choose to go home by the disciples to see God's image in Is the dream of eternity, which those seasons of disenchant­omnipotence, but by virtue of way of the Cross? the figure taken down from the will come later, better than the ment, when you lose faith in the his weakness and suffering ... Christ is called the Lamb of Cross. It must have been hard vision of migrating birds she Church as a catechist, you can only the suffering God can 
God. He is also pictured in the for the preacher to remember sees now? She doesn't think so; take lessons from the lilies of help." mediaeval bestiaries as the that the mangled carcass left still she feels the need of some the field, when you consider spiritual unicorn alluded to as over from his liturgy had once religious belief. Finally she de­how they grow. Here's a religion for the dis­the "the horn of salvation" in been a fleecy lamb without cides that the truth she can live Is Death the mother of ciples with the courage to fol­the old translations of the bruise or blemish, worthy like by is this: "Death is the mother beauty? How could it not be, if low the the non-violent Christ, "Benedictus." Unicorns, ac­the unicorn to be a symbol of of beauty." She means that the it makes you think? Last week, whose only defense was the cording to mythology, are fabu­Christ. desire for beauty is sharpened I saw a duck killed by a passing Love stronger than Death. 
lous creatures who tend to fall "Are you washed in the blood by our awareness of death; if car on Douglas Road. Its mate If Death is the mother of in love with virgins. In "The of the Lamb?" is not a we lived forever, the beauty we stood by, waiting for that bun­beauty, it's also true to say as a Once and Future King," T.H. metaphor for salvation that experience would seem less dles of feathers to stir, not un­corollary that the blood of White described the unicorn Catholics favor. You don't have wonderful. "She hears.../A voice derstanding why its partner lay martyrs is the seed of the which the children hunted. He to be alienated from the Church that cries, 'The tomb in Pales­silent Jike a slaughtered lamb. Church. Bonhoeffer died, as ·' was white, with hoofs of silver as a Catholic to be embarrassed tine/Is not the porch of spirits The mystery and miracle of a Malcolm Muggeridge notes, not and a graceful horn of pearl. by the emotional religion of the lingering.Jit is the grave of Je­lowly creature's life starts to on behalf of freedom or democ­"He stepped daintily over the Salvation Army. In the words of sus, where he lay' ... /Deer walk tease you like doubts about racy, but on behalf of a Cross heather... and the wind made Wallace Stern, an agnostic upon our mountains, and the Providence, as soon as you see on which another man died. 
•V
waves in his long mane... There American poet, "The fault lies quail/Whistle about us their that the creature's life has "Between my neighbor and me, ;,· was a faint bluish furrow down with an over-human god/Who spontaneous cries;/Sweet ber­ceased to be. Couldn't heaven there is Christ," Bonhoeffer each side of his nose, and this by sympathy has made himself ries ripen in the wilder­keep all those dead bodies said. For Christians and pagans led up to the eye-sockets, and a man/... If only he would not ness;/And, in the isolation of thrown to the roadside out of alike, Christ hangs dead, and surrounded them in a pensive pity us so much/Weaken our the sky,/At evening, casual harm's way? But why blame both alike forgiving. Why do we shade. The eyes, circled by this fate, relieve us of woe both flocks of pigeons God for the wildlife sacrificed continue to fight wars of liber­sad and beautiful darkness, great/And small.../A too, too make/Ambiguous undulations to the traffic? One should be ation, when liberation comes were so sorrowful, lonely, gen­human god, self-pity's kin ... " as they sink/Downward to grateful when it's animals that only, as we should know by tle, and nobly tragic, that they Stevens' poem, "Sunday darkness.' on extended Wings ... die, not children, as the victims now, from the Love that is 
'!' .·
killed all other emotion except Morning," has been called the In this concluding stanza, one of vehicles that move faster stronger than Death? 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~©~ rn1IT~1r@~W 1r~@@@lrnl 


·DISPLAY 8 PRESENTATION 

MONDAY, APRIL 8TH THEODORE'S I .... 
DISPLAY: 1: OOp.m. -4: 30p.m. 
I 

PRESENTATION: 7:OOp.m. 
Fireside Chat (lunch provided): Noon-lp.m. DISPLAY ITEMS FROM the COLLECTION of VANESSA DURGANS I 
FREE ADMISSION to 
I 

ALL EVENTS FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 239-7308 
;~~ , ~-· 
. -. ··.,:-; \L;,~~.J...-... . . 
1-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. • 


Friday, April 5, 1991 The Observer 
page 13 
New NCAA rules may leave swimmers high and dry 
FEDERAL WAY, Wash. (AP)­"Isn't it sad that someone who August. They said it cuts a individual workouts when the break," said Jeff Dimond, aA tidal wave has hit college is as excellent a student as world-class swimmer's student athlete uses the spokesman for U.S. Swimming,swimming because of a new 
Janet Evans has to quit college supervised workout schedule, institution's facilities. The coach the national governing body.
NCAA rule drastically changes to pursue her dream?" Texas 
which usually averages 35-40 just can't require you to spend "We're all upset at the NCAA.
the way athletes train. It's women's coach Mark Schubert hours per week. more than 20 hours a week." They have delivered a majoralready swept away the asked. "I think it borders on But while college swimming No matter how the rule is blow to what has been a verycollegiate career of Olympic criminal." 
officials criticized the new rule, viewed. the major impact successful program." champion Janet Evans and Said Evans, competing in the the NCAA says the 20-hour rule appears to be on swimming. Says Stanford coach Richardcoaches say more big names U.S. Spring Nationals: "I think is being misinterpreted. Track and field stars have been Quick: "The new rules are verywill follow. the NCAA is going to have to get "That limit refers to the leaving school for years to run clear to me. A swimmer can
For its part, the NCAA says its act together." amount of time that a coach can for clubs where they could earn only do coach-supervised
the rule is being misinterpreted Evans of Stanford and Melvin require a student athlete to money and also train for 
training 20 hours a week."and that Evans and other world Stewart of Tennessee, both participate in his or her sport," Olympic competition. 
class swimmers can still get in world record-holders, said NCAA spokesman Jim While college swimming has Texas men's coach Eddie as much supervised pool time 
Wednesday they were leaving Marchiony said Thursday. lost some stars during Olympic Reese said he planned to as they like. school to better prepare for the "Swimmers can voluntarily years, a mass exodus may occur recommend to some of his
But the impact is something 1992 Olympics. practice as many hours as they now that Evans and Stewart swimmers that they take the
different and has left college Both blamed the new NCAA want. The coach may be have left. 
year off to get ready for the 
programs shaking. rule, which takes effect in present during voluntary "The dam may be about to Olympics. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all
Classifieds 
spaces. 
HELP!!!NEED A ROOMATE FOR  Hawaii beachfront CONDO, sleeps  Resumes .... Professional quality  he's too arrogant to read the  Dear Wm,  
NOTICES  CASTLE PT. NEXT YEAR-CALL DOUG X2051  4, 11128-1215191, $500, mins. from Hula Bowl & Honolula. Call 234­ 272-5667.  (Tom Williams)  Observer, but HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANYWAYS, MICHAEL PIERRE  1 love you even if you are cheaty. Little Sweetie  
504 11233-4408  IBM, COMMODORE, OR APPLE.  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  Do you have 2 Paul Simon tickets?? Call Amy 1289  Female roomates wanted for Summer School to share  Cash paid for all makes of Computers and Software. Computer software for IBM and IBM  Womens Bookstore schedules should be picked up this Thurs. and Fri. in SUB office at NO and SAB  UNDANCEUNDANCEUNDANCE UNDANCE UNDANCE UNDANCE 8-12PM  
$$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. hours 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of NO Ave. & Howard  American AuPair nanny specialists. Carefully screened families. Full benefits, airfare, good wages. Nanny support system, no fees. Local interview-call Joan 616-684­ Oak Hill condo-call Amy @ 284-4445 Students wanted to sublease apt. for summer. RENT NEGOTIABLE.  compatible, Commodore or Apple, $2 each. WESTERN ELECTRONICS 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550  office at SMC FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305.  SAT. APRIL 6 SOUTH DINING HALL UNDANCE SAT. APRIL 6  
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, IN 46514.  1451. EARN $300/$500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B SUMMER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  -Blaize x1654 Students wanted to sublease apt. for summer. RENT NEGOTIABLE. ·Blaize x1654 FOR SALE  NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and trade, gold, silver, diamonds, jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's, camcorders, cameras, air conditioners, microwaves, tools, Nintendo's, computers. OZARK TRADING POST 1530 WESTERN AVE.  !!! PROFESSORS ... !!! ARE YOU TOURING THE WORLD ON A FULBRIGHT? ARE YOU GOING TO BERMUDA? ARE YOU JUST GOING AWAY THIS SUMMER? WORRIED ABOUT THE HOUSE? RESPONSIBLE UNDERGRAD IS  8-12pm SOH only $3 LIVE BAND ~t+·~ YOU REMEMBER THEM FROM ·.t LAST YEAR-MR. E -IS  
Word Processing Quick service, color printing available. Call Betty at 7458 or leave message (289-1321)  Firm desires undergrads or grad students for pool construction. Will train and provide position for several Summers. Steady employment and pay increases  IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOME! 3 BDRM HOME FOR SALE BY OWNER. FIREPLACE, CIA, FMRM WiBAR. MOVE-IN COND. 15 MIN  287-7550 HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUMMER? Jet there with AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the  LOOKING TO TAKE CARE OF YOUR HOUSE WHILE FLUNKING ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IN THE SUMMER SESSION. NO NEED TO WORRY THIS SUMMER! CALL  COMING ALL THE WAY FROM CHICAGO TO PLAY FOR ONE NIGHT ONLY! MR. E LIVE AT BRIDGET'S  
..  available. Write 1919 So. MichiganATTENTION II! St., South Bend, IN 46613 or callAll GRADUATE STUDENTS, Joe at 287-9283.FACULTY & STAFF are invited to attend the STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? FRIDAY-AFTERNOON CLUa I'm looking for 1-3 roommates totoday from 5 pm-9 pm at the share a Campus View apartment for Alumni-Senior Club. the summer. I'm interning in theFREE MUNCHIES provided. Bend, so I won't be around much. LOST/FOUND I CaJIJo;~;-;~NT LOST: A Minolta Camera in a blacklL.___________.. Eddie Bauer pouch. Believed to GRAD. WEEKEND have been lost 3128191 in 127 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Niewland. If found please call Scott 219-291-7153.@ 273-9355. REWARD!!!!! 3 Bedroom House LOST: a navy blue windbreaker, Close to Campuswith "Mountainside Community Pool $555 Month + DepositStaff" on it between LaFortune & Ten Month Lease Fisher on Mon 3125. Be real cool 232-3616and return it to Jeff x1873. TIME IS RUNNING OUT • LOST: Call before the BEST houses areI left a Limited bag in the Main gone 233-994 7.Circle late on Monday night. If you found it, please call me at: 284­EASY LIVING '91-'92 yr.4112. 3 great student houses. REWARD! 234-3831 or 288-5653 HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! Available. 2 Student Rental Homes I lost my cross in Gym 1 of the ACC for 1991-1992 school year. Call on Wednesday March 27. I left it 232-5411 (9 A.M to 12 and 2 P.M. tothere after 5 p.m. It's a silver cross 5 P.M. Monday thru Friday).on a black rope band. It has GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. A HOUSES FOR LEASE 91-92 Yr.REWARD IS OFFERED. If found 3-7 Bedroom, Furnished, please call Mike at 1788. Thanks. Reasonable Rates. Call at 232-1776. FOUND: Cash. Call with description.-Mike x3589 Historical 3-bdrm. house, good LOST: KEYS! 3 keys on two neighborhood. Kevin 234-3937. attached rings-one room key, one mail key (#139) and one padlock. An attractive studio in lovely oldLost 4-2 possibly in 117 Haggar. mansion near N.D. $300 nowPlease call X4092 if you can help. renting for summer &fall 91 call 2879624LOST: IN OR NEAR LOFTUS, A  WALK FROM NO. APPT ONLY. 234-8116, EVE. sofa, luv seat, carpet window seats (Fl. & Gr.) X1583 CABER COMP SL Ski bt, sz7.5, $200. x1400 86 VW GOLFExcellent cond., AIC,sunroof,pull-out hi-fi.New Michelins,exhaust,brakes,belts,hose s.Orig owner must sell. $3690.232-9952. 1990 CAVALIER Z24, lt. blue, low miles, sharp. Call 271-8920. Men's Superlightweight 19" Bianchi 12-speed. Hardly used. 3 years old. Was $350. Now $200. Call 258-0752. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Buying a car? Good rates. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. FOR SALE: One Way Ticket to L.l. Islip Sat. 5111 $125 Erin x4492 Want to avoid the endless computer lines at finals? then buy my practically new, professional WP system. Easy-to­use, fantastic results, and no waiting! $300 or b.o. Matt x2004 89 GEO Spectrum Great Gas Mileage­45/city 50/highway Still has factory warranty excellent buy, call Pat 288-5678 TICKETS  Midwest, $160 from the East Coast. (As reported in NY Times and Let's Go!) AIRHITCH (r) 212-864-2000 TUTOR WITH PH.D. AND 10 YRS. UNIVERSITY TEACHING EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST BUSINESS & ECON. STUDENTS IN ECON & MATH COURSES. 272-3153. SAM'S WHOLESALE CLUB Special Service for NEW BUSINESS MEMBER sign ups. No need to stand in long line.Just call 24-hour recorded message-277­6877. PREGNANT? Whoops! Is "Our Baby" growing in your tummy by accident? Loving doctor and his stay-at-home wife would like to discuss Baby's future with you. Please call collect anytime. (219) 462-5250 Michael & Debra. ***BEDSPINS*** friday nita at McCormicks! ENGINEERS' WEEK APRIL 8-12 ··~···················· Off-Campus Engineers-please pick up your Engineers' Week Booklet in the Engineering Student Center today! *********************** I got it. Come. And be my baby. Come watch the Tutus dominate Bookstore! Monday, April 8, 4 p.m. at Stepan. Just look for the tutus. Here's what Ron "Hot Buns" Bielski, star point guard of the Tutus, says to the other team with the stupid  ANYTIME...283-34 70 ...PLEASE LEAVE A MESSAGE IF GONE! CAN FURNISH "CHARACTER" REFERENCES UPON REQUEST. ARE YOU A BOOKWORM? The Accent department of The Observer is looking for an undergraduate or graduate student with strong writing skills to serve as a regular literary critic. Call John O'Brien at 239-5303 for more information ARE YOU A MOVIE GOER? The Accent department of The Observer is looking for an avid movie goer with strong writing skills to serve as a regular movie critic. Call John O'Brien at 239-5303 for more information. Looking for a female roommate off­campus for next year? So am I! Call3566 hi ag-agi, that is. UNDANCE UN DANCE UNDANCE UN DANCE UNDANCE UN DANCE everything you wanted in a dance but were afraid to ask for ... the UNDANCE 8pm-12pm South Dining Hall only $3 students $5 non-students what's more...it's CASUAL!!! DANCING FOOD DRINK GAMES CONTESTS AND MORE DANCING MORE FUN THAN HUMANS SHOULD BE ALLOWED TO HAVE UN DANCE ATTENTION SOPHOMORES!! Applications for next year's Junior Class government are due today -Friday, April  FRIDAY APRIL 5, 1991 Rides will leave the main circle at 11 :45 for the WOMAN UNITED FOR JUSTICE AND PEACE RETREAT. HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY ANNE! HAVE A GREAT DAY. -MARK STEPH AND ANNE­SORRY ABOUT THE MESSAGE. IT WAS ONLY A JOKE. I HOPE THAT YOU WON'T HOLD IT AGAINST ME FOR TOO MUCH LONGER. I HOPE THAT I WILL BE ABLE TO BE YOUR FRIENDS AGAIN. STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? I'm looking for 1-3 roommates to share a Campus View apartment for the summer. I'm interning in the Bend, so 1won't be around much. Call John at 283-3574. !! John Stavrokas!! Happy 21st Birthday to a Greek, chocolate-filled, tumbling STUD! Hope and Trust always. Love, Jennifer To that "Buxom-blonde" ( a real one too!!) who lives in Walsh Hall AKA "Farah", glad you had a ball last weekend, so did we!!! Next time we'll keep Bubbles away from those Barry look-alikes!!!Love-us Eileen, Beth, Julie, Christina Top ten Daytona Memories: 10. Cess! 9. Totally Pauley, eh? 8. House of fire 7. Drunken spaghettifest 6. Jason and Peanut 5. Wid night withe Dawgs  
DIAMOND RING OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF YOU FOUND IT, PLEASE CALL 257­8154.  Roomate needed for summer session. Call Tim M-F at 233-8461.  I NEED 2 GRAD TICKETS. CALL JOHN X2325.  name with Greek letters: "Lick it." TUTUS TUTUS TUTUS TUTUS  5th -by 5:00pm. Applications can be picked up at 213 LaFortune. Get Involved-Apply!!  4. "I like shrooms on pizza 3. "Hey that's my jacket-! stole it!" 2. Passive scammer 1 . The 523 Crew!  
SENIORS!!!  We don't mind boxing out. In fact,  
I left my glasses in the Physics 222 Lab on the third floor of Nieuland on March 26.  Best Locations, Best Houses, Have your own yard. 233-9947.  I need 1 Grad. Ticket Call Martha x4271  we quite like it. But don't ruffle our tutus. Monday, Stepan, 4 p.m. Look for the humongous crowd.  Hey Dan Belmont, What's a Polupus? I don't get it, do you? Are you still limp?  Howl ring FAYETTE SQUARE  
If you have any information, please call me!! I am blind without them!! Nicole x4907 WANTED SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373.  Condo for summer rental 2 bdrm 1 mi. from NO 272-5708 2 Bdrm. 2 Bath Oak Hill Condo. $650 unfurnished, $800 furnished. Avail. for Summer and 91-92 School yr. Call Michelle at X4970. TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER 3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF NO 2773097  Need 2 grad tix for Grandma and Grandpa before they kick. Ron, x3504. I PERSONAL ADOPTION: Loving, professional couple will give your newborn the best things in life. Let us help you through this difficult time. Medtcal expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Call Barbara and Joe anytime. (800) 253-8086.  To all ENGL 491 A warriors: "War is the nightmare where adults feel like children" Dearest Mauricio, My loins quiver every time I think of your red-hot Mexican burrito!! Go for you, you Latino stud! LOVE, Laura  CALL KRISTIN (x4881) FOR THE BEST NECK AND BACK MASSAGE YOU HAVE EVER HAD! URINE, WELCOME TO NO ERIN. HOPE YOU HAVE/HAD FUN .. KEITH Thank you St Jude, faithful friend and follower of Jesus, for answering my petition. ems  TOWNHOMES 4 6 5 HDROOII UltiTS AVAI Aa.E Aa1en!tlll '""""" -WASHER & DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATK>S ONlY A FI:W APARTMENTS LEFT! L FOR MORE INFO NOW. 232-1251  



-~-~--~---·~­
page 14 

-~------------------------~----------.-----~ 
Scoreboard Friday, AprilS, 1991 
EXHIBITION BASEBLL LINESCORES 
At Chlndler, Ariz. Cleveland 004 510 010--11 14 3 Milwaukee 211 030 000--7 10 4 
Candiotti, Egloff (7), Orosco (8), Jones (9) and Alomar, Skinner (7); Brown, Wegman (4), lee (7), Machado (8), August (9) and Surhoff, Oeflllsey (6). W-Candiotti, 2-1. L-Brown, 1-5. HA-Cieveiand. Bene 2 (10). 
At Mesa, Ariz. Seattle 110 500 000--7 11 1 Chicago (N) 001 001 000-2 4 0 
Johnson, Krueger (7), M.Jackson (9) and Valle, Bradley (7); O.Jackson. Slocurrb (5), Da.Sm~h (8), wunams (9) and Berryhill. W--Johnson, 2-0. l­O.Jat.:kson, 2-1. HR-Chicago, Sandberg (3). 
At St. Peteratug, FIL Chicago (A) 010 000 201--4 11 0 St. Louis 000 000 020--2 9 0 
Hibbard, Orahman (8), Thigpen (9) and Marullo, Karkovice (6); B.Smilh, Perez (6), Terry (8),l.Smilh 
(9) and Pagnozzi. Gedman (B). W--Hibbard, 4-0. L--B.Srrith, 4-2. Sv--Thigpen (5). 
At Fort l.alderdale, Ra. Baltimore 020 001 000--3 8 New York (A) 010 000 010--2 10 0 
Mesa. Bautista (8), Williamson (9) and Hailes, Melvin (6); Leary, Hawkins (2), Mills (7), Plunk (8). Farr (9) and Nokes. Ramos (9). W--Mesa, 2-0. l­Hawkins, 1-3. Sv--Williamson (1). HR-Baltimore, Worthington (2). 
"" 
NBA STANDINGS 

At Fort Myers, Ra. Texas 000 010 101-3 8 3 Minnesota 150 022 OOx-tO 15 t 
Brown, Bronkey (6), Arnsberg (7), Barfield (8) and PetralN, Jo.Russell (7); Morris, leach (8), Oeikus (9), Bedrosian (9) and Harper, Ortiz (B). W--Morris, 4-0. l-Brown, 1-2. 
At Brldenton, RL Boston 000 010 000--1 2 o Pittsburgh 001 010 OOx-2 6 0 
Harris, Hesketh (7), Gray (8) and Pena, Marzano (8); Wal<, Palacios (6), Patterson (8), landrum (9) and Slaugh!. W-Walk, 2-1. L-Harria, 3-1. Sv­landrum (1). HR-Boston. Brunansky (1). 
At Cl..-ter, Fla. Detroit 000 021 400-7 1 0 0 Philadelphia 002 026 Otx-11 13 2 
Petry, Gakeler (6), Cerutti (7) and Allanson, Salas (7); Corms, Mauser (4), McElroy (6). Ayrault (8), Soever (9) and Dau•on, lake (7). W--Mausar, 1-1. l--Petry, Q-3. HR&-Oetrolt, lemon (2). Philadelphia. Thon (2). 
At Plent City, RL Houston 022 000 100-5 6 2 Cincinnati 000 011 020--4 13 0 
J.Jones, Clancy (6), Schilling (8) and Nichols, Servais (8); Scudder, Hall1T10nd (4), Minutelli (7). Gross (8), Power (9) and Oliver. W--J.Jones, 3-0. l-Scudder, 2·2. Sv-Schilling (2). HAs­Houston, Davidson (1). Cincinnati, Jefferson (3). 
At Hainee City, Ra. Toronto 000 100 001-2 8 2 Kansas City 010 000 000-1 5 0 
Key, Acker (7), Timlin (9) and Borders; Boddicker, Gordon (7), M.Davis (8), Montgomery (9) and Macfarlane, Mayne (7). W-Acker, 2-2. L­Montgomery, 1-3. Sv-Timlin (1). 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Allnlic OlvWon 
w L y-Boston 54 20 1-Phil~hia 41 33 NewYOik 35 39 Washington 27 46 New J8flley 23 51 Miami 22 52 Cenlnl Dlvtelon 1-Chicago 55 18 •-Detroit 46 27 •-Milwaukee 44 30 1-Atlanta 38 35 Indiana 36 37 Cleveland 26 47 Charlotte 23 51 WESTERN CONFERENCE ..._.Dlvleion 
w L 1-San Antonio 48 24 •-Houston 4 7 25 ll·Utah 47 25 Orlando 26 45 Danas 26 46 Mlnneaota 23 49 Denver 19 54 Plldlc Dlvtelon •-Portland 55 18 ll·LA Lakers 52 21 1-Phoenlx 50 22 1-Golden State38 35 Seattle 35 37 LA Clippers 28 45 Sacramento 20 52 
ll-dnched playoff barf! 
y-dlnched dvlelon ... 
~y'•Gama• 
Pd .730 .554 
.473 .370 .311 .297 
.753 .630 .595 
.521 .493 
.356 
.311 
Pd 
.667 
.653 .653 
.366 .361 .319 
.260 
.753 
.712 
.694 
. 521 
.486 .384 
.278 
13 
19 
26112 31 32 
9 
11 112 17 19 29 32112 
1 1 
21 112 22 25 29112 
3 
4112 17 19 112 27 34112 L10 7-3 6-4 3-7 4-6 2-8 2-8 
7-3 7-3 6-4 3-7 6-4 3-7 4-6 
L10 7-3 9-1 6-4 
5-5 
3-7 3-7 1-9 
8-2 7-3 7-3 4-6 
5-5 
6-4 2-B 
Str•k 
Won4 Won 1 l0612 Lost 1 lost 4 Lost 3 
Won2 
Won4 
lost 1 lost4 lost! 
Won 1 
Won 1 
Str•k 
Won 1 Won2 Won 1 lost 1 lost 1 Won 1 lost 3 
Won8 Won2 Won3 Won 1 Won3 Lost 1 Lost 1 
Home 
33-5 
27-10 17-20 19-18 18-20 16-22 
32-4 
29-8 
29-8 
26-10 26-11 
18-17 
15-21 
Home 30-7 29-8 30-5 2Q-16 18-19 17-19 t6-19 
32-5 28-8 28-7 25-11 23-12 2Q-16 19-16 
Cleveland 95, New York 84 Philadelphia 107, Indiana 104 Houston 102, Dallas 86 Utah 99, LA Clippers 97 Seattle 106, Sacramento 91 Golden State 127, Miami 114 
nu.day'• a.m.. 
LM1 Geme Not Included Boston 123, New Jersey 104 Charlotte 98, Atlanta 91 Portland 105, Washington 96 Minnesota 134, Denver 122 San Antonio 105, Milwaukee 101 Chicago 101, New York 91 LA Lakers at Phoenix, (n) 
.r-rfday·· Game• 
. Charlotte at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. 
· Washington at Indiana. 7:30p.m. Portland at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. San Antonio at Chicago, Bp.m. Minnesota at Detroit, 8 p.m. Utah at Dallas, 8:30p.m. Houston at Denver, 9:30p.m. Phoenix at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Seattle at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Miami aiLA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. 

Sldurdey'a Gan.. Boston at Orlando, 7:30p.m. Indiana at Atlanta. 8 p.m. Utah at Houston, 8:30 p.m. Detroit at New York, 8:30p.m. New Jersey at Milwaukee, 9 p.m. Golden State at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
Sundey'aGa.,._ 
Cleveland at Charlotte, 2 p.m. Philadelphia at Chicago, 3:30 p.m. Penland at Dallas, 3:30 p.m. San Antonio at Minnesota. 3:30p.m. Seattle at Denver, 4 p.m. Saaamento at LA Clippers, 9 p.m. Phoenix at LA lakers, 10:30 p.m. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBAll. 

Americ:M L.eegue ! \ CLEVELAND INDIANS-Claimed Eddie I I Taubensee, catcher, off waivers from the Oakland 
Athletics.

I 
l 
MINNESOTA TWINS-Sent lenny Webster, catcher, to Portland of the Pacific Coast League. Placed Pat Howell, outfielder, on waivers. 
I SEATTLE MARINER5--0ptioned Kehh Comstock, pitcher, and nno Martinez, Infielder, to Calgary of the Pacific Coast League. Sent Alonzo Powell, outfielder, to their minor-league caflll for reassignment. TEXAS RANGERS-Sent Joe Bilker, pitcher, to their rnnor-league cafllllor reassignment. 
Nlltional LHgue ATLANTA BRAVES--Piaoed Pete Smith, pitcher, on the 15-day disabled list. CINCINNATI REDS-Sent Chris Jones, outfielder, to NashvHie of the American Association. MONTREAL EXPOS-Recalled Eric Bullock, outfielder, from their minor-league can,>. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Optioned Mickey Morandinl, second baseman. to Scranton-Wilkes· Barre of the lntemationalleague. PITTSBURGH PIRATES--Sent Mark Huismann, pitcher, and Orlando Merced, first baseman­outfielder, to Buffalo of the American Association. Released Doug Bair, Joel Davis, Joe Lazor and Joe Pachoiec, p~chers; Tom Nielo, catcher; and Jeff Osborne and Junior Vizcaino, first basemen. ST. LOUISD CARDINALS--sent Tim Sherill, pitcher; Ray Stephens, catcher; Rod Brewer, lirst baseman; and Luis Alicea and Tim Jones, Infielders, to louisville of the American Association. SAN FRANCISCO GIANT~Iaced Jose Uribe, infielder, on the 15-day disabled list. Placed Kelly Downs, pitcher, on the 15-day disabled list, retroat1ive to April 2. Assigned Tony Perezchica, lnllelder, to Phoenix of the PacHic Coast league. 
BASKETBAU. 
World Baeketball.eague NASHVILLE STARS-Named Ron Greene coach. 
FOOTBALL Nlltional Footbel L.eegue HOUTSON OILERS-Waived Patrick Allen, cornerback. KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Signed Clifford Chariton, linebacker; Titus Dixon, wide receiver; Willie Fears, defensive lineman; and Michael Owens, running 
back. 
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Named lan Pyka strength and conditioning coach. 
Arena Footbell 
DALLAS TEXANS-Named Mike Trigg, offensive coordinator; John Fontes, defensive coordinator; and Aaron Mitchell, special teams coordinator. 
HOCKEY NdoNII Hockey L.eegue NEW YORK RANGERS-Sent Steven Rice and Tie Domi, right wtngs, to Binghamton of the American Hockey League. TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING-Named Tony Esposito director of hockey operations. 
GUITARS 
Awey 
21-15 14-23 18-19 8-28 5-31 6-30 
23-14 17-19 15-22 12-25 1Q-26 8-30 8-30 
Awey 18-17 18-17 17-20 6-29 8-27 6-30 3-35 
23-13 24-13 22-15 13-24 12-25 8-29 1-36 

Conf 
33-14 29-18 24-22 19-28 15-33 13-34 
36-10 3Q-16 29-18 21-26 22-23 17-29 15-32 
Conf 
3Q-17 28-18 31-15 22-28 15-31 16-37 11-37 
34-13 35-13 3Q-16 22-25 21-25 23-24 13-32 
NHL SCHEDULE 
DIVISION SEIIRNALS (Beel-of-7) Wedlllleday, April 3 
Hartford 5, Boston 2, Hartford leads series 1-0 Montreal 7, Buffalo 5, Montreal leads series 1-0 New Jersey 3, Pittsburgh 1, New Jersey leads series 1-0 
N.Y. Rangers 2, Washington 1, New 
Yorlt leads series 1-0 lhl.nday, Aprtl4 Late o.me. Not lnduded 
Minnesota at Chicago. (n) Detroit 6, St. louis 3, Detro~ leads 
series 1-0 Edmonton at Calgary, (n) Vancouver at los Angeles, (n) 
Friday, April 5 Hartford at Boston, 7:35p.m. Buffalo at Montreal, 7:35p.m. New Jersey a1 Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Washington at N.Y. Rangers, 8:35pm 
Setudey, April II Edmonton at Calgary, 8:()5 p.m . Minnesota at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Detroit at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. Vancouver at los Angeles, 10:35 
Sundlly, Aprt 7 Montreal at Buffalo, 7:05 p.m. Boston at Hartford, 7:35p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Washington, 7:05 Pittsburgh at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. 
Moodily, Apt 8 
St. louis at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. Chicago at Minnesota, 8:05p.m. Calgary at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. los Angeles at Vancouver, !0:35p.m. 
Tueedey, April II Montreal at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. Boston at Hartford, 7:35p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Washington, 7:35pm Pittsburgh at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. 
Wedneedey, April tO 
St. louis at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Chicago at Minnesota. 8:05p.m. Calgary at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. los Angeles at Vancouver, 10:35p.m. 
r 

SATURDAY '• 
EXIT77 
\. 
~· 
-LESSONS 
241 DDCIE WAY N · US 33 (OLD 31) one mile north of ) ( St. Mary's College Roseland 
MON-FRI. 12:00 NOON· 6 pm CAll lor SAT. hours 

-AMPS 
at 

flii= 
~CLUB 
. 

.J 

CRATE -ALVAREZ-YAMAHA WESTONE-TAYLOR 
272-7510 

Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Church 2nd Sunday of Easter 
5:00 pm Fr. Thomas Gaughan, c.s.c. 
10:00 am Fr. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. 
s 
• 

sifliplY,
•'the vest. 
TANNING 
WITH EVERY PACKAGE PURCHASe) 
ready and stock up for Spring Break 
WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED TIME!
... 
EXPIRES 10 DAYS AFTER PUBLICATION 
CALL TODAY 272-7653 
FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23 UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 
Friday, April 5, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Celtics hand Nets 17th road loss in a row, 123-104 
BOSTON (AP) -Larry Bird Trail Blazers 105, Bullets 96 scored eight of his 14 points in LANDOVER, Md. (AP) -Clyde a 24-10 surge that ended the Drexler scored 25 points and first half, and the Boston Celtics had 10 of Portland's 30 at the handed the New Jersey Nets free throw line as the Trail their 17th consecutive road Blazers won their eighth loss, 123-104 Thursday night. straight game. 
Boston led 62-48 at halftime, Portland took 29 more free but the Nets used an 18-8 surge throws (40-11) and was whis­to cut that to 70-66. The Celtics tled for 10 fewer fouls. As the responded with their own 18-8 game wore on, referee Steve rally, paced by Kevin McHale's Javie ejected Bullets Darrell eight points, and led 88-7 4 after Walker and Pervis Ellison as three quarters. They led by 12 well as Washington coach Wes to 23 points the rest of the way. Unseld. The officials even 
Boston (54-20) has the NBA's ordered the Bullet mascot to third best record. The Nets (23-leave the court. 
51) were coming off their low­John Williams scored 24 est point total of the season in a points for the Bullets and 94-77 loss to Boston in New Ellison had 17 points and 11 Jersey on Tuesday night. rebounds. 
Kevin Gamble led Boston with The Trail Blazers trailed 81­20 points and McHale added 80 when Drexler made two free 
19. The Nets were led by Sam throws to ignite a 19-5 spree. Bowie, who had 12 of his 28 After Walker was ejected, Terry points in the third quarter, and Porter hit the technical to make Reggie Theus with 19. it 91-83. 
rfHE 
Fathers and Brothers 

Through vision, work, and prayer they have given life to a great university, enriching our world with timeless values, caring service. 
Holy Cross also serves a variety of ministries: schools, parishes, foreign missions, service to the poor and others. 
For infmmarion abour the one-year Candidate Program at Notre Dame write: 
Vocation Director 
Congregation of Holy Cross 
Box. 541 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
239-6385 


Hornets 98, Hawks 91 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) ­Johnny Newman scored 17 of his 20 points in the third quar­ter and keyed an 11-1 surge as Charlotte Hornets cold-shooting Atlanta. 
The Hornets, winners in four of their last six games, broke from a 7 8-7 4 lead after three periods with a 9-2 spurt to open the fourth quarter. Atlanta was held to 17 points in the final period. 
Charlotte's Kenny Gattison scored over Moses Malone with 
8:29 to go and his ensuing foul shot gave the Hornetse an 87­76lead. 
Atlanta closed within four points when Dominique Wilkins, who finished with 26, hit a layup with 57.5 seconds left. But the Hawks missed five 3­point attempts on their next three possessions. 
Timberwolves 134, Nuggets 
122 

MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Tyrone Corbin scored 26 points as Minnesota set several team offensive records -including most points in a game -in the victory over sumping Denver. 
With 10 games to go, the Timberwolves (23-49) already have one more victory than they did in their expansion 1989-90 season. They are 17-19 at home after having won 17 here all last season. 



American Heartft Association V 
l?D®~Lf ~®WI) 
~£W 11£1r~~ 
MOVING • AUTO • SPENDING MONEY SECURITY DEPOSIT • WARDROBE 
Seniors, when you graduate, you'll have expenses and we would like to help! We have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 
~NEW AUTO· 9.75°/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. 
YOU MAY QUALH FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWM LOANS BASED ON Yllll SIGNATURE. -MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your first year as part of this special offer. [!il5'lij QUICK CASH· 13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this 
loan, you simply write a check! ~ RELOCATION· 9.1°/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to ~repay. You must also have our Mastercard and 
line-of-credit. Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed!
0 ~R.AJ.~lNON 
239-6611 
Separate from the Unlvetslly 
r 


is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Editor 
For more information contact 
239-7 4 71 or 283-4624
Dannika 
HAPPY BELATED 20TH BIRTHDAY--4/4/91. I AM SO GLAD THAT I HAVE SHARED THE LAST YEAR WITH YOU AND LOOK FORWARD TO MANY MORE. LOVE, TIM 

GONE ARE THE TEENAGE YEARS.;.; .. YET TO COME ARE THE ADULT YEARS.. HAPPY IN-BETWEEN-YEAR, AMBER!!! LUV & HUGS FROM M & D 
-----1------------~----~~~---------------~._.........
_...------~~----~~:..-----­
r 
l 
\ 
.\ 
l: 
I 
' 
. ' ' ... 
-' ' ' • • # ~ 

page 16 The Observer 
Male golfers hope to beat weather against top competitions at Indiana 
By RICHARD MATHURIN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame golf team will attempt to overcome its major foe so far this season, the weather. Last weekend, the Irish were snowed out in two of their three days at the Johnny Owens Invitational at Lexington, Kentucky. 
This weekend they travel to Indianapolis to compete in the Indianapolis Intercollegiate tournament. It will be a two­round tournament to be played at the very difficult Eagle Creek Golf Course. 
The field will include many of the top teams in Midwest in­cluding Perdue, Ball State, Bradley, Eastern Michigan, and Ferris State. 

"I think we'll do fairly well. All northern schools will be competing and that should make the field pretty equal," said Irish coach George Thomas. 
Eagle Creek Golf Course will be especially challenging to the Irish having a slope (course rating) of 135. 
"Eagle Creek is very difficult. It's a shot makers golf course," observed Thomas. 
The team has been competing in shootouts all week to determine which five golfers will compete for ND. Senior captain Paul Nolta and junior Mike O'Connell are assured spots, but the other three spots are wide open. 
''I'm looking for Todd Klem and Brennan Murphy, both freshman, to play well," com~ mented Thomas. 
The team has struggled with its short game and reaching the greens in regulation due to the lack of practice. 
"We haven't had the oppor­tunity to get much practice be­cause the weather has ex­tremely bad around here," said Thomas. 
"We want to make a good showing, so as to make an im­pression for the NCAA's," said Thomas. 

Friday, April 5, 1991 
A young Irish women's golf squad faces big test 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team will compete in the Indiana Univ~sity Women's Invitational at the IU Golf Complex this weekend. 
Notre Dame will take a rela­tively young squad to Bloomington. It will consist of senior captain Roberta Bryer, senior Pandora Fecko, junior Allison Wojnas, and sopho­mores Kathy Phares and Cappy Mack. 
The Invitational will provide tough competition for the Irish. The field will consist of 17 teams including some of the best teams in the Midwest re­gion. Last year, Indiana won easily and the Irish finished 14th out of a field of 15. 
"The better the opponent, the better we will become," said Coach Tom Hanlon. "You have to be hungry if you want to win and it is difficult to remain hungry if your opponent is not playing well." 
"This tournament will be tough all the way around-tough because of the long layoff since our last tournament (March 14-15) and tough because of the competition," said Hanlon. 
\ 
\\ 
1 
I 
I . : \~ 
! : 
) 
i 
~ ·. 
\ 
\ 
' 
\ 
~ 
i 
I ) 
l i 
( 
I 
li 
NO's Zorich getting down to business 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­Notre Dame lineman Chris Zorich put his business class lessons to work when he per­formed for NFL scouts. 
"This was my job interview," Zorich said. "I went out of my way to say a lot of 'Yes sirs' and 'No sirs.' I put everything that I learned in my business communications classes to work. 
''I'm not applying for a con­ventional 9-to-5 job, but it's basically all the same. You clean up, you're neat and you sell yourself." 
Zorich, who won the Lombardi Award as college football's best defensive lineman, attended the NFL scouting combine held 
Utah 
continued from page 20 
players may need to adjust. 
Thanks to some enjoyable South Bend weather, the team has had a chance to practice outside, which could help them over the weekend. 
Said doubles-specialist Ann Bradshaw, "We played outdoors this week, but we don't know where the matches will be played. The altitude could be a problem, and I don't know if any of us have played in that condition before. The travel­ling will also be hard, but we have to be up." 
The Irish have won five straight, so they have momen­tum going into this crucial weekend. 
"With only two weeks left in the season," said Louderback, "everyone knows that we have to stay focused on tennis. It's going to be a busy end to the season. 
A potential NCAA bid hinges on the team's performance the remainder of the season. ND has wins over teams ranked or receiving votes in the top-25, including dominating victories over then 16th-ranked South Carolina and Wisconsin. However, other highly-ranked teams, such as Indiana and San Diego State, have proved to be too strong for the Irish. 
With four of the last five matches against top-25 caliber teams. the Irish need to make their stand now if they are to get into the twenty-team tour­nament field. Bids will not offi­cially be extended until late April. 
The team is playing with con­fidence, on a strong winning streak, and, said Bradshaw, "Everyone feels more seasoned right now, more conditioned as the year has progressed. Now is our chance to pull out all the stops." 

earlier in Indianapolis, but a knee injury prevented him from working out. 
He ran, jumped and per­formed a series of defensive drills on campus Wednesday. 
Scouts and managers liked what they saw. 
"Before any of us ever stepped in the building, we knew Chris was an outstanding football player and an outstanding per­son," said Carl Peterson, presi­dent and general manager of the Kansas City Chiefs. 
-we don't like to make mis­takes in the draft. We take the extra time and extra money to scrutinize the players we like." 
Peterson predicted Zorich will be taken high in the April 21 NFL draft. 
Pittsburgh Steeler scout Joe Greene, a Hall of Fame defen­sive lineman, said, "I was never scrutinized like this. If I had to place myself in Zorich's posi­tion, I'd be annoyed." 
Zorich said the pressure of staging a one-man show was tougher than performing with other prospects in Indianapolis. 
"I would have been one of a lot of athletes there," he said. "Here, everyone was looking at me and watching every step I took. If I failed out there, I won't get hired, just like any other job. It's that simple." 

BYTHEWAY,CHRIS, WHAT IS THAT ON YOUR HEAD. ANYW A YS, HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 

CHIPI JIM, MIKE, "D" 
A A A A A A ~ A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A ~ A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A ".-.... 
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A • 
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A -•• •• 
lnteruorsity Christian Fellowship Lorge Group Meeting Fother Richard U. Worner, c.s.c. 
(Director of Compus Ministry, Uniu. of Notre Dome) on 
"The Ministry of the Priesthood" 
6:30 p.m. Fridoy, April Sth Keenon-Stonford Chopel 

NOW 'HO THE WOLF APPROVE?? 
HAPPY 20TH CHRIS 

CHIP TIM MIKE "D"
I _. I I 
("i,:l.,~--=~ 
!J'-~...._ 
~m.; 
~\!>~ 

ROFFLER PHONE (219) 233-4957 SORBIE PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
ROCco·g STYl[ SHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR 
Convenient Student Living 
We're just minutes from Notre Dame, University Park Mall, the toll road and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community with spacious, well-kept grounds has a lot of appeal to the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­
gency maintenance service ... and we have an activities program that includes free aerobics classes, social functions, team sports and much, much more. 
If you're looking for the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we'll show you comfortable, affordable apartment living! 
-featuring ­

Efficiencies from $270 
+ p;anned Activities Program
1-Bedrooms from $285 2-Bedrooms from $345 
+ 
Beautiful Clubhouse &Pool 

+ 
Air Conditioning + Cable TV Available 


+ Disposal • Laundry Rooms272-1880 • Basketball Court 
+ 
Picnic Tables & Grills 


+ 
Volleyball Court + Gazebo


Office Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9-7, 
Sat. 10-4 and Sun. 12·4 + 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance Service 

·Ask about the Hickory Village Summer Breeze ... the easy and economical way to keep your apartment ~hrough the summer and still go home. 
"--· 

+llCKORij • DlLLAYE 
Conveniently located on Hickory Road, just north of Edison Road 
NO APPLICATION FEE! 
Save $15 when you apply for an apartment at Hickory Village. Just present this coupon to the leasing agent and the $15 application fee will be waived. 
Explrn 911191 15 
Friday, April 5, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Faldo goes for record third Masters title_
SPORTS SHORTS 
Ho~eld's auto dealership sbuts down IIJNESBORO, Ga. (AP) -An automobile dealership owned by heavyweight champion Evander Holyfield is closed temporarily as managers try to keep the business afloat. 
Managers at Evander Holyfield Buick-Subaru sent employees home and locked the doors Wednesday. · 
The dealership, which has been in financial trouble for the past several months. went a week in March without issuing checks · and told creditors it needed a reorganization period. 
Holyfield. who has been training in Houston since February. owns a 45 percent interest in all outstanding stock in the com­pany. 
The closing of the dealership was the latest distraction in Holyfield's preparation for his Aprill9 heavyweight title defense against George Foreman. 
Holyfield also is in divorce proceedings with his estrangedwife. Paulette. 

Brandon declares for NBA draft 

•EUGENE, Ore. (AP) --Terrell Brandon announced Thursday that he will forego his senior year at Oregon and would make himself available· for the NBA draft. 
The 5-foot~ 11 guard led the Pacific 10 Conference in scoring and assists this season, and was named player of the year by the conference's coaches. 
Brandon said during a news conference that money wasn't much of a factor in his decision, which he said he reached about a month··ago;····•·.···>····.······· ;;:!:::/· 
NBA eligibility rules· require underclassmen to renounce their 
college eligibilitY in writing 45 days· before the draft. wWch is 
held in June. ················ .·. Brandon averaged 26.6 points and fiv~ assists per game for the Ducks this year. * He sat out· his freshman year to meet academic requirements. then averaged 17.9 points a game as a sophomore, earning Pac­1 0 newcomer of the year honors. 
SENIORS 
Take the road less travelled consider 
HOLY CRos·s ASSOCIATES 
A one-year, post-graduate experience stressing service, community living, simple lifestyle, and prayer 
SECOND APPLICATION DEADLINE: * APRIL 12 * 
For more information contact: Mary Ann White --239-5521 Mary Ann Roemer--239-7949 
AUGUSTA, Ga. (AP) -It is Nick Faldo against the field ­and history. 
No one has ever won the Masters three times in a row. Faldo has two. No one has ever won the grand slam of golf. Faldo has dreams. 
Not since the glory days of Jack Nicklaus has one man so dominated the pre-tournament talk. 
Through it all, the tall Englishman with the elegant swing and steadiest of games remains a calm craftsman going about his business. 
"I don't think of it as a third Masters," Faldo said. ''I'm try­ing to approach it as a major, any major." 
Besides, Faldo said, he has set himself a much more difficult target than a mere third con­secutive Masters. 
"The ultimate goal," he said, "is the grand slam." 
No one has ever won the Masters, U.S. and British Opens, and the PGA in the same year. Only Nicklaus, Gene Sarazen, Ben Hogan and Gary Player have won all four in a career. 
But Faldo thinks it can be done. 
"In theory, nothing is impos­sible, is it?" he asked. His eyes took on a far-away look as he mused aloud, "You must do ev­erything right. Play 16 wonder­ful rounds of golf." 
The first of those 16 rounds will be Thursday at Augusta National Golf Club when 88 of the world's finest players -69 Americans and 19 from abroad -tee off in the first of the year's four major tests. 
Only one other person has had a shot at three consecutive Masters titles. Nicklaus won in 1965 and 1966, but missed the cut the next year when he shot 72-79. In fact, only three men have won any of the four ma­jors in three successive years. And no one has done it since Peter Thompson won the British Open from 1954-56. 
It is a measure of Faldo's pre­sent stature in the game -and the level of his confidence ­that he has his sites set on more than just a third straight Masters. 
"My goal is to try to win more majors," he said. "Just keep trying. I'm anxious to see what is in store." 
Faldo made a run at it last year. He won the Masters in a playoff victory over Ray Floyd, missed making a playoff at the 
U.S. Open when a birdie putt on the last hole lipped the cup, and then won the British Open for the second time. 
Ben Hogan is the only player to have a shot at the grand slam, and he passed on the chance. Hogan won the first three -the Masters, U.S. and 

....., 

I" 
-""' 

.Ihe Obset:Ver~~== 
is looking for students interested in the paid position of 
Purchasing Agent 
Freshman and sophomore business majors interested in gaining valuable business and managerial experience which could possibly lead to promotion within the business department should contact Gil Gomez at 239-7471 for more information. 
\. 
..J 
...... 

British Opens -in 1953 then did not play in the PGA. Nicklaus won the first two ­the Masters and U.S. Open-in 1972. 
Faldo is approaching this Masters with a single-minded intensity reminiscent of the young Nicklaus -focusing on the majors to the exclusion of all else. 
Just as Nicklaus did, he has reduced his playing schedule and built it around the Big Four. He is giving himself every chance. 
''I've won some (majors) now. I know how to do it. I'm on a roll. I want to try to win more," said Faldo, now 33 and in the prime of his career. 
After closing his 1990 season with a victory in the Hong Kong Open in December, Faldo took a two-month break from com­petition and granted only one television and one newspaper interview. 
He spent time with his family. 
He gained about 10 pounds and says he has benefitted from an exercise program designed to combat tendonitis in his wrists and elbows. 
"I'm a lot stronger," said Faldo, now carrying about 210 pounds on a 6-foot-3 frame. 
Duke 
continued from page 20 
players in college tennis that are deserving of this award, but I'm glad they chose me. 
"I've been playing well, and I've been on a winning streak. I feel I definitely deserved to be one of the players in the run­ning for it." 
Bayliss feels that DiLucia truly earned the award. 
"I think it's a terrific honor for Dave, one that is very much deserved," Bayliss said. "He has played as well as anyone in country this year. I'm really happy for him." 
Think of your 


best friend. CCMf'UT~~ tAB CONSUlTANTS Now,
Now Hiring for 1991-92 
think 

Positions are available in all stalled clusters: 
of your

Architecture, Campus Se~urily, CCMB 210, Hayes-Healy, Hesburgh, LaFortune, 
best friend 
and D'Shaughne ssy. 
dead. 


Non-consulling positions also available. For an application or further ilformation, 

Dm'tdrivedrunk.
slop by 24G Hesburgh before nApriiiJ91 
Reader's Digest 
USE'P SfPVlCfS, Orf'lCf Of' UNlVfPSITY COM~UTlNG 
WANT TO GET INVOLVED IN STUDENT GOVERNMENT?? MEET NEW AND INTERESTING PEOPLE?? 
APPLY TO BE NEXT YEAR'S HALL PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL EXECUTIVE COORDINATOR OR SECRETARY!! 
APPLICATIONS MAY BE PICKED UP FROM STUDENT GOVERNMENT SECRETARY ON THE 2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE DUE APRIL 8TH. 
-----------------------,----­
--------~~--------~------------------------~--------------------------------~ 
pag~ ~~ The Observer Friday April 5, 1991 

SPORTS BRIEFS 

•The 
Irish Heartlites fun runs are coming up April 11. There will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Students and staff should start training now. 

•An 
Tostal mud volleyball sing-ups will be held Friday April 5 from 4 to 6 pm in the S.U.B. office. For more information call Lou at 283-2071. Minimum two women per team. Entry charge is $5 per team. 

•Women's 
Bookstore Basketball schedules should be picked up this Friday in the S.U.B. office at ND and the S.A.B. at SMC. 

•The 
NO Cricket Club and the India Association are holding a match Sunday, April 7 at noon on Red Field. All are invited to come and watch. For information, call Mark at 283-3419 or Tim at 283-1556. 

•Attention 
all ND/SMC sailors: The Michigan City Regatta has been moved to Notre Dame. Anyone interested in helping, sailing, or housing people should contact Moira at 284-5224. The regatta will take place Saturday, April 6. 


•Free swimming classes for women will be held on 
....... 
Tuesdays and Thursdays from April 9-25. Anyone interested should -contact Dennis J. Stark at 239-5983. 
•Former 
Oxford Cricketer Dr. Walshe will hold a discussion Tuesday April 9 at 8 pm in 115 O'Shaughnessy. All are welcome to attend. 

•A 
hole in one was scored by Rob Prock of Planner on hole number six of the Notre Dame course on 3/28. Rob used an 8 iron. 

•The 
Bookstore Basketball Hall of Fame game will be played today at 4:30pm on the bookstore courts. The tournament will officially begin with the first games on Saturday. 

•WVFI 
congratulates Brian and Kurt from Lafayette Square who won the Campus Sports Trivia contest. Jay and Mike would like to thank all the teams who participated and hope the dorms 



will show interest again next year. 
Track 
continued from page 20 
but (last week) was the first 200 Raghib has run since senior year in high school," Piane said. "Next week, he'll run ex­clusively the 100, but running the 200 now will give him the additional strength necessary to go through all the rounds at the NCAAs in the 100." 


For the Irish to come out vic­torious in Saturday's meet, however, their dominance in the field events must continue. They experienced a minor setback in that goal this week 
I \, 
when long jumper Jeff Smith (23-5 last week) ripped a hamstring muscle. 
Still, Notre Dame remains strong in the field, especially in the javelin (Ryan Mihalko and Matt DeAngelis), discus (Oscar McBride, Tony Smith, and John Smerek) and high jump (John Cole, Paul Maloney and Todd Herman)-an event the Irish swept in Houston. 
Notre Dame's strongest op­ponent this weekend will be Western Michigan. "Western Michigan is very good," Piane said. "Our major competition this weekend should come from 

( I. them." 
A major reason for his con­cern is the Broncos' capability to counter some of Notre Dame's strength in the field. 


In the javelin, Mihalko (206-1) will face a stiff challenge from freshman Brian Keane, who has thrown over 213 feet this season. And in the high jump, Cole, whose career-best is seven feet, will lead the Irish trio against another Bronco freshman, Vinton Bennett, who has cleared 6-11 this year. 
Notre Dame runners also will 1 be challenged by Western j Michigan in the 100 (freshman 
Tamott Wolverton-10.67), 800 (Eric Legros-1 :52.93). 1500J ,. (Brad Kirk-3:49.68) and 400­meter hurdles (Mike
\I 
Evans-54.68).l, St. John's is another team that worries Piane. The 
'I 
j~· 
j, 
Ii 
It 
Redmen's major weapon is middle distance runner Deleon Kennedy, who qualified for the NCAA Indoors in the 800 (1:49.5). 
Drake also competed at the Meeting of the Minds meet, fin­ishing a distant third. The Bulldogs derive most of their points in the field, led by Joel Sward (60-1/2, shot put) and Tyrone Minor (24-11 1/2, long jump; 49-1, triple jump). Their top runners are juniors Dave Cairns (1:53.9, 800), Bill Sitton (14:36.3, 5000-meters) and Craig Carver (21.75, 200). 
The starting time for the meet has been rescheduled to 1:30 
p.m. due to spring football drills 
during the morning. 
Notre Dame baseball team is on the road again to face Mqc foe Evansville 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team is heading down to Evansville this weekend for an­other stop on its 29-game road trip. The Irish, 13-10, will face the Aces, 15-7-1, in a pair of Midwestern Collegiate Conference doubleheaders. 
Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy appraised the Aces. "'Evansville's a very tough team. They are one of the top teams in the conference. They have beaten great competition na­tionally and we'll have our hands full," said Murphy. 
The Irish had a 20-2 confer­ence record last year including two losses to Evansville in the MCC tournament. The Aces went on to win the tournament, but Murphy does not feel that the Aces were the best in the conference. 

"'We totally dominated the conference the last three years," said Murphy. "They weren't champions of the con­ference by any stretch of the imagination." 
On the mound for the Irish will be sophomore Alan Walania, 4-3 with a 3.76 ERA; sophomore Pat Leahy, 3-1 with a 4.13 ERA; sophomore David Sinnes, 1-1 with a 6.49 ERA; and freshman Tom Price, 2-1 with a 2.93 ERA. 
The Irish hope to dominate at the plate in the games against Evansville. Leading the attack will be senior Frank Jacobs, sophomore Eric Danapilis, and freshman Greg Layson. 
The Irish head into Evansville with a four-game losing streak, but the losses came against Stanford, UCLA, and Minnesota. Stanford has been national champions in two out of the last three years, UCLA is one of the top teams in the country, and Minnesota is probably the best team in the Midwest. 
"We played them all tough and we didn't get beat by any of them. We beat ourselves," said Murphy of the games. "The losses, that is part of baseball. The bottom line is that we are definitely one of the best teams in the country." 
Right now, the team's record stands at 13-10, but their de­manding schedule included twelve games against teams in the top 25. 
"Our win/loss record has nothing to do with how good a club it is. I know that this is the best team I've had in the four years I've been here at Notre Dame," said Murphy. 
SIEGFRIED LECTURE SERIES IN ENTREPRENEURIAL STUDIES PRESENTS 
DR. RAYMOND W. SMILOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND THE JUDSON NEFF CENTENNIAl FELLOW AT THE IC2 INSTITUTE, THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN 
DR. RAYMOND W. SMILOR WILL BE VISITING OUR CAMPUS ON MOfiDAY. APRIL 
8TH AS PART OF THE SIEGFRIED LECTURE SERIES IN ENTREPilENEURIAL 
STUDIES. 

DR. SMILOR'S RESEARCH AND CONSULTING AREAS INCLUDE TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER, ENTREPRENEURSHIP, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT, AND MARKETING. HE HAS LECTURED INTERNATIONALLY IN CHINA, JAPAN, CANADA, ENGLAND, FRANCE, ITALY, AND AUSTRALIA. HE WAS SELECTED AS ONE OF THE ENTREPRENEURS OF THE YEAR lt'-1 1990 AND INDUCTED INTO THE INSTITUTE OF AMERICAN ENTREPRENEURS 
DR. SMILOR WILL BE GIVING A PRESENTATION FOR THE GENERAL PUBLIC REGARDING HIS RECENT RESEARCH IN THE AREA OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP IN THE AUDITORIUM OF HAYES-HEALY AT 4:00PM ON MotiQAY. THE PRESENTATION IS TITLED "SUCCESS FACTORS FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP." 
COME AND JOIN US! 

1.------------------------:------------... 
NOW LEASING: 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWN HOMES 4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE AMENITIES INCLUDED: 
-WASHER AND DRYER 
-SECURITY SYSTEM 
-DISHWASHER 
-CENTRAL AIR 
-PATIOS 

ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT! 
CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 232-8256 
. I . 

Friday, April 5, 1991 The Observer page 19 
•
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Friday 

7:30 p.m. Folk Dancing. Clubhouse, Saint Mary's Campus. For Further information, call 284-4478. Sponsored by Saint Mary's ,College. 
7:15p.m. and 9:45p.m. Film: "Cinema Paradiso." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Friday and Saturday. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film, "Jungle Book." Cushing Auditorium. Friday and Saturday. Sponsored by SUB. 
Sunday 

2 p.m. Play: Call to Action Performing Arts Ministry, "All that I am." Library Auditorium. Sponsored by Year of the Woman, Badin, PE, Grace, Siegfried. 
LECTURES 
Friday 

12:15 p.m. Friday Forum for faculty and staff: "Labor Employment Relations Law and the Labor Market," William Leahy, professor. Brown bag lunch or soup and bread available for $1. Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. 
7:30p.m. Lecture: "The U.N. and a New World Order," Juan Somavia, Chilean Ambassador of the United Nations. Auditorium, New Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Saturday 

9 a.m. Third Part of Lecture Series: "A Tribute to Our Lady, Notre Dame Our Mother," Series of Guest Speakers. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 
•"Do 
Whatever She Tells You," Dr. Edward Murphy and John Matthews, professor of law. 

•
"The Seven Sorrows of Our Lady," Dr. Anthony Trozzolo and Charles Huisking, professor of chemistry. 

•"Our 
Lady of Lourdes: Two Perspectives," Paul Fischer, Ph.D. 


•"Mary, Mother and Model of the Church," Sr. Margaret 
Michael, C.S.C.,·St Mary's College. Sponsored by the Blessed Mother 
Monday 

11 :15 a.m. -12:45 p.m. Visiting Departmental Fellow, Department of Economics, University of Notre Dame, and University of Cambridge, England, Professor Ajit Singh. "The Efficiency of Public Enterprises in Developing Economies: A Critical Examination of Analytical, Empirical, and Policy Issues. 131 Decio Faculty Hall. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
ACROSS 24 Actor 51 Acclivity Kristofferson 53"Gigi"
1 Like George playwright26 Crux
Apley 29 Defeats a 
55 Run a meeting5 Word with word bidder 58 Trial of a 10 Certain grouch?
31 Adjective for cholesterol Cain 63 Chinesecontainers warehouse

14 Oculus mundi 35 Exciting 64 "Hec Ramsey"
15 City NW of 37 "My Fair Lady" actor
Orlando lyricist 65"--Named
16 Author Eliav 38 Town on the Sue"
17 Supermarket Vire 66 Part of a foot
section 
39 Barret or biggin 18 Eminent 67 Unions
41 "Beetle Bailey" 

dog(orally) 69 Painter
42 Spoil

20 Former Mondrian
45 Sheridan's Mrs.

supermarket 70 Gives up employee? 
71 Guazuti or48 Finn's pal 22 Pulitzer Prize 
guemal poet: 1944 49 Prudish 23 Extinct German 50 N.Y. C.-to· ox Boston dir. DOWN 
1 Miner's striKe 2 Peak 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
3 Mica of muscovite 

4 A forefather of 
21 Once, once

Samuel 22 Irascibility 
5 Emulate William I of England 25 Bro., for one 6 Kind of guitar 26 Hornets' homes 7 Poet Nahum 27 Way out 2Bin Hades 8 A Canterbury 30 Scaramouch pilgrim 
32Among, in 9 Stung: Slang Amiens 10 Rain on the 33 "Dragonwyck" roof? author 
11 Beam 34 Simile, e.g. 12 Elasticity 36 Make a true 13 Membership facsimile? 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
MENU 
Notre Dame 

Shrimp Poppers Beef Noodle Casserole Vegetable Calzone a la Mode Grid Turkey Steak/ Mozzarella Sandwich Baked Zucchini w/Herbs 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON JAY HOSLER
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON SPELUNKER 

A FRffTY, riVIf~ToNI(I)Hf~LOTS HAVE ro PA-SS. 
NEw 

DYIN' TO 
• 
.. 





The University of Notre Dame
Friday 

proudly presents: 
Saturday 

The 1991 Collegiate Jazz Festiual 
Featunng DtsUngulshed coUeglate jazz bands from around the nation A feature perfONMnce by the Airmen of Note, 
The US. Air Force's premier jazz ensemble The Fesuvat's 33rd Annual judges' jam wtlh performances by Randy Brecker Eddie Gomez 
Roy Haynes Harold Mabeme and Dlclt Oatts 
Come be a part of the oldest and finest tradition in collegiate jazzI
Cushing Auditorium 


April 5th and 6th Stepan Center University of Notre Dame
8:00p.m. and 10:30p.m. 
40 Vernacular 43 --apparent 44 Parts of cents. 46 Elsa, for one 47 Needlessly 52 Lycee's kin 54 Cooking 
direction 55 Block part 
56 Tap dancer Coles 57 Ut1er attachment 59 Cross 60 Nicols hero 61 Considerably 62 Witness 64 Eng. network 


. -. 
Commissioner Applications can be picked up at 2nd Floor Secretary's desk in Lafortune. Deadline is Friday, April 5. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
... 
------------~----·----­
Sports 

page 20 Friday, April 5, 1991 
Irish lacrosse team travels to Ohio to face Denison 

By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team, coming off a 15-9 loss to Villanova, hits the road Saturday to face Division III power Denison College (3-2). The Irish (3-4) have had trouble with the Big Red in the past, as Denison leads the series 8-3. 
After over 30 years of play under Coach Tommy Thomsen, Denison, ranked 12th in the Division III poll, is in its first year under the direction of Mike Karaban, who worked with Irish coach Kevin Corrigan while the two were coaching at Virginia. 
"We've had a lot of difficulty in the past beating Denison," said Corrigan. "He's going to have his team well prepared." 
The Irish, 1-3 on Denison's home turf. are still searching for a complete game perfor­mance. The squad plays well at different times, but not throughout the game. 
"We're still looking for our team to play as well as we think we can play," said Corrigan. "We need to concentrate on ex­ecuting for sixty minutes and then we'll be alright." 

The Irish offense should get an ample amount of opportuni­ties to execute, as Corrigan doesn't expect the Big Red to play a high-pressure game. 
"We'll be able to do the things we want to do without them forcing us out of our game plan," said Corrigan. "We'll need to play with patience and good judgment in order to be successful." 
Last year, Notre Dame lost 7-6 in a game that Corrigan feels his team should have won. While the Big Red sported an experienced defense last sea­son, this year's young squad should allow the Irish a few more shots on goal. 
Notre Dame has been hesitant at times on offense, looking for easy shots rather than taking what's available. 
"I don't think our shot selec­tion is bad," said Corrigan. "I think sometimes we're almost a little too selective." 
While the Irish offensive threat has been suspect at times, Corrigan believes sophomore midfielder Brian Mayglothling has what it takes to power the Irish offensive at-
Utah next stop for Irish women's tennis team 
tack. 
"Brian has shown that he's capable of playing with anybody in the country," said Corrigan. "It's time for him to step forward now and be willing to carry a little bit more of the load. He's got outstanding talent and we need him to produce for us." 
Lack of scoring has plagued the Irish at different intervals throughout the season, but the base of the problem may not have much to do with offensive techniques. 
"Most of problems have been the result of mental break­downs, so we're trying to get our attitudes ready for this game," said junior midfielder Chris Nelson. "We need to be able to look across the line and believe that we can win." 
Midfielder Brian Crowley powers the Big Red offensive attack, while third-year goalie Billy Barroll lets few shots pass him. 
"Their goalie is back again and he's an excellent player," said Corrigan. "We'll have to get the ball past him more than six times to win this game, too." .. 

Dilucia honored as men head south 

By HUGH MUNDY Sports Writer 
After an Easter break which featured defeats of Midwestern foes Minnesota and Michigan State, the Notre Dame men's tennis team sets its sights southward for two weekend matches. 
The Irish face Duke University tomorrow followed by a match against #25 West Virginia. 
Although Duke has struggled against nationally-ranked competition, Notre Dame coach Bob Bayliss anticipates a challenge. 
"Duke is a very talented team," he remarked. "They've had a number of close defeats against some outstanding squads." 
The Irish, which narrowly won last year's match with the Blue Devils, will rely on its ex­perienced singles lineup in this season's contest. 

"I think we'll benefit from our depth at singles, "Bayliss said. "We've gained strength from our difficult schedule." 
Nevertheless, the Irish coach expects to be tested. 
"Duke definitely remembers last year's loss," he commented. "Revenge will be a major factor." 
Following the Duke match, Notre Dame faces a perennial top-twenty team in West Virginia. 
The Mountaineers have been beset by injuries throughout the season but should be at full strength against the Irish. 
"They lost their number one and three singles players for a month," Bayliss said. 
"However, I expect they'll re­turn this weekend." 
Bayliss, whose squad has also experienced a rash of injuries, believes his players will be able to handle the difficult weekend road test. 
"We practiced hard this week," he said. "That tells me we're healthy and ready to go." 
Notre Dame All-American Dave DiLucia, who has suffered back spasms throughout the season, should be available to play singles in both matches. 
DiLucia received more good news earlier in the week when he was named Volvo Collegiate Player of the Month for March. 
The Irish junior grabbed most valuable athlete honors at the prestigious Blue-Gray tour­nament in Alabama to solidify his position as one of the na­tion's premier collegiate play­ers. DiLucia is currently ranked third in the Volvo Collegiate Rankings, and-all four of his defeats have been to players ranked in the top 10 this year. 
"It's a nice honor," said DiLucia. "There are a lot of 
see Duke I page 17 
:. . 
;( 
(\ --~ 
l 
\ 
By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
With only two weeks left in the spring season, the Notre Dame women's tennis team, riding the crest of a five-match winning streak, travels out west to face two ranked teams, with a potential NCAA tourna­ment bid waiting in the wings. 
The Irish (14-6) head out to Utah this weekend to face Brigham Young in Provo on Saturday, and then visit Salt Lake City on Sunday to take on Utah. 
The Irish are currently 23rd in the Volvo Collegiate Poll, and will be facing some stiff competition this weekend. BYU is ranked 13th in the country, and Utah is holding at the 21st position. This will be a chance for the Irish to turn some heads at the NCAA tournament selection committee. 

"For us to finish the season as high as we possibly can," said Irish coach Jay Louderback, "we have to play these types of teams. Utah is in the running for a tournament bid, and I can't see BYU not getting in, since they have had a great year. To get a bid, you have to have wins over teams that will be in it, so this is a chance for us to play teams like that." 
Notre Dame may face the handicap of the altitude out in Utah. The team does not yet know if it will be playing in­doors or outdoors, and the altitude does make a difference. Some balls will fly a little bit more and the 
see Utah I page 16 
Notre Dame track teams play host to a quad meet 
Men look to build on good showing; Peppard and Ismail will be keys 


Women's program hopes to make a good performance in first season 
By COQUESE WASHINGTON Sports Writer 
If the Notre Dame women's track team has butterflies in the stomachs this Saturday, it's completely understandable. Not only is this their home de­but for the '91-'92 outdoor season, it also is their inaugural campaign as a varsity sport. 
The team has no plans of starting off small, in terms of competition. The quadrangular meet features squads from St. John's, Western Michigan, and Drake University . 
"All three of these programs have established, solid pro­grams," said Coach Joe Piane. "Drake's program has been around since the beginning of women's competitions." 
Nevertheless, he does not 
simply hope his team will com­pete well. He wants them to win. 
The team is anchored by the strong middle-distance running of sophomore Lisa Gorski, and junior Diana Bradley in the 1500-meter run. Sophomore Karen Harris adds depth to the field events with her perfor­mances in the shot, discus, and javelin, and two freshman, Ashea Price and Latrice Waters, head the list of Notre Dame sprinters. 
"Price and Waters, are very solid runners, and should per­form well," commented Coach Piane. 
Action begins at 1:30 pm, at the Monogram Track and Field facilities in Moose Krause Stadium. 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's track 
and field team hosts a quad­
rangular meet this Saturday at

s' the Monogram Track. The Irish will face competition from St. John's, Western Michigan, and Drake. 
This is the second meet for Notre Dame during the outdoor season. Last weekend, the Irish finished a close second to Rice at the Meeting of the Minds Invitational in Houston, Texas, a result coach Joe Piane was 

., not surprised by after the meet. 

-;, "We scored where we needed to score with the exception of one event (the 800-meter run)," Piane said. "That may have been my fault in a way, putting (Brian) Peppard in the 1500­meters and the 800. I was hop­ing he could score in the 1500 and come back and score in the 800. I guess I got a little greedy, and it cost us." 
This week, however, Peppard will run exclusively in the 800-his strongest event 
(1 :51.4 last weekend)-while two of Notre Dame's distance stars, Ryan Cahill and Mike O'Connor, will compete at 1500. 
In the sprints, freshman Willie Clark will run in the 100­and 200-meters, Clark ran ca­reer bests in Houston (10.6; 
20.92) to qualify for both the IC4A championships and the 
U.S. Junior Nationals. 

Junior Raghib Ismail will try to improve on last weekend's fourth-place finish in the 200 this weekend as well as anchor the 4x100 relay team. Although the 100 is his stronger outdoor event, Piane does not expect to use him in that capacity Saturday. 
"The 100 is his better event, 
see Track /page 18 


