
v; 2. ~ ~.-·-I 

Switzer wins senior class offices; others face runoffs 
VOL. XXIII NO. 101 
DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) -In the worst Scud attack of the Gulf War, an Iraqi missile on Monday demolished a barracks housing American soldiers. The U.S. military said 27 servicemen were killed and 98 wounded. 
Baghdad radio hailed the at­tack, saying the missile struck "the coward traitors who mortgage the sacred places of the nation ... and turn Arab youth into shields of flesh." 
The single missile caused more casualties than Iraq's armies have reportedly inflicted in two days on the battlefield. 
U.S. military officials say four Americans died and 21 were injured in the first two days of a major ground assault. 
Saddam Hussein's troops have hurled dozens of missiles at Israel and Saudi Arabia since the Gulf War began Jan. 17, but most have been knocked out by U.S.-supplied Patriot defense missiles. 
A U.S. military source said Tuesday there was no indica­tion that a Patriot missile had been fired to intercept the Scud. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, did not elaborate. 
Early Tuesday, the U.S. Cen­tral Command issued a state­ment saying 27 were killed and 98 were wounded. The updated statement, which followed a night of searching for the vic­tims, said all personnel were 
CLASS ELECTION RESULTS 
·.·.·.·.·.·.·,·.··:·····:·:···:···:-:-:-·

SENIOR 833 
Switzer wins

CLASS 
624 

37°/o
416 

311 votes 


7°/o
208 

58 votes 
(I) 
s 
0 


> Wolfe Other JUNIOR 1121 
Cathcart and CLASS Duffy in run­off Wednesday
840 



560 26°/o 
23°/o

292 votes 
259 votes
280 
(I) 
s 
0 


> Duffy 
Bidegain 
SOPH. Reinke and CLASS Jerich in run­off Wednesday
1329 



go;o 

121 votes 

Reinke Sandoval 


The Observer 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
• 
Iraqi withdrawal I page 9 

• 
Demonstration I page 1 0 

• 
Swedish position I page 9 

• 
First cavalry I page 1 0 

• 
Pentagon actions I page 1 0 


accounted for. 
"It was gory, horrible," said Sgt. Arnel Bona, 23, assigned to crowd control at the blast scene. 
After the blast, a chaplain moved among the survivors. consoling them. Some soldiers appeared to be in shock; others embraced each other in an­guish. Many were in tears. 
In the rubble, four pairs of boots poked out from under blankets. Sleeping bags and military uniform belts were scattered about on the charred floor. There was little left of the building but its steel girder frame. 
"I have to prepare myself for this," said a U.S. soldier walk­ing toward the scene. 
Some survivors carried gas 
Jerich 
masks around their waists, but there was no indication Sad­dam had made good on his threat to arm a Scud missile with a chemical warhead. 
George Manes, Middle East bureau chief for the military newspaper Stars & Stripes, said an air raid siren gave scant warning of the approaching Scud. 
Manes, basing his account on military eyewitnesses, wrote that a large piece of the missile that apparently contained the warhead plunged straight down into the barracks, creating an orange fireball on impact. 
The barracks was in an in­dustrial area about three miles from the huge military air base at Dhahran. A singed sign at the entrance marked it as the home of the 475th Quartermas­ter Group, a reserve unit from Farrell, Pa., north of Pitts­burgh. 
The attack came at about 
8:30 p.m., while some of the soldiers were eating dinner and after others had apparently gone to bed or were relaxing. Many survivors were in civilian clothes -some in sweatsuits or gym shorts. 
Hours later, the U.S. military brought in lights, a backhoe and a team of engineers to clear the rubble. 
1\vo trucks carrying about 25 members of a miners' company arrived. The workers donned leather gloves to search through the rubble, and some 
By DAVID KINNEY News Writer 
In yesterday's class elections, the Jennifer Switzer ticket won the senior class office, while the elections for junior and sopho­more class offices resulted in runoffs, to take place tomorrow. 
The Dave Cathcart and the Shawn Duffy tickets edged out Bill Mcintyre's ticket in the ju­nior elections to earn spots in the runoff, while the David Reinke and Kevin Jerich tickets earned runoff berths by defeat­ing the Bryan Scovlar ticket and 10 others in the freshman contest. 
Runoffs for the junior and 
ND, SMC students busted in bar raids 
By MONICA YANT Associate News Editor 
Eighty-eight of the 92 people arrested during weekend raids of two area bars were students at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, or Holy Cross College, according to Sgt. James Moon, South Bend Police Dept. 
Four bartenders were also given citations. he said. 
Police responded to a call about underage drinking about 1 a.m. Saturday at Club 23, 7 44 
N. Notre Dame Ave., then to in­formation about a fight in Bridget McGuire's Filling Sta­tion, 1025 South Bend Ave., around 2 a.m. 
Six people were taken to jail, including the two individuals involved in the fight that brought the police to Bridget's. Moon could not comment on how many of the six were stu­dents because their arrests were handled by county police officers. 
The raids were conducted by the St. Joseph County Stop Un­derage Drinking and Sales (SUDS) Task Force, comprised of members from the South Bend Police Dept., St. Joseph County Police, Indiana State Police, and Indiana State Excise Police. 
The bars were cited for 'minor in tavern' by the Indiana sophomore class officers will take place on Wednesday. Stu­dents can vote in their dorms from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. and 5-7 
p.m. Off-campus students can vote in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Approximately 4 7 percent of the senior class voted. Switzer and running mates Sean O'Neill (vice president), Jill Beth Hayes {secretary), and Tim Thornton {treasurer) received 55 percent, for 464 votes, while the write-in candidates, Dennis Woolf, Brian Grunert, Dan Geist, and Tom Sullivan took 37 percent, for 311 votes. 
"We'll be building on every­thing that we did last year," 
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 26, 1991 
GULF WAR ROUNDUP 
Monday, Feb. 25 President Saddam Hussein of Iraq ordered his forces early Tuesday to withdraw from Kuwait, Baghdad radio reported. It said the order to withdraw was in accordance with aSoviet peace proposal the allies had rejected before the start of the ground offensive. 
-·----(Baghdad 0 IRAN .-~··_ ....,...----·-. 
IRAQ 
JORDAN 

KUWAIT
/-----,-SAUDI ARABIA 
~ 
/ 


·-.. -·---··~· .' 
• 270 Iraqi tanks have been destroyed in the first two days of g 
war, including 35 of the top-line T-72s, the Republican Guard's main battle weapon. 


• The Marines engaged an Iraqi armored and mechanized-infantry force in Kuwait late Monday morning, and destroyed 50 -60 tanks. 


As of 7 p.m_ EST carried picks and shovels as they trudged down the road toward the building, still sur­rounded by many of its surviv­ing residents. 
During the early stages of the search, there were the sounds of small arms ammunition ex-State Excise Police. They will be brought before the local alcohoVbeverage commission to determine fines or other applicable punishments, he said. 
All of the arrests were for minor in tavern, because ac­cording to Moon, "Just because a minor is in a tavern, doesn't mean the minor was consuming." 
"Probably 90 percent were drinking," he said. 
Because of the large amount of people involved-almost 80 at Bridget's-the SUDS Task 
see RAID/page 4 

said Switzer. "We hope we can make the year fun for the se­niors. We're ready to start." 
In the junior class elections, Cathcart, Andrea Auyer, Tom Fellrath, and Jennie O'Hea al­most captured a majority, re­ceiving 48 percent, or 544 votes. Duffy, Sonia Miller, Kathleen Vogt, and Robbie Hennings took 26 percent, for 292 votes, barely edging out the Mcintyre, Dan Milton, Em­manuel Bidegain, and Lloyd Adams ticket. 
"We've gained experience this year,"said Cathcart. "We 
see ELECTION/page 4 

AP ploding in the smoldering rooms. The search lasted most of the night, but appeared to be over by about 4 a.m., when bright searchlights were dimmed and only a few security guards could be seen standing around the wreckage. 
page 2 Tuesday, February 26, 1991
The Observer 
cloudy today, high in upper 20s. Cloudy and cold tonight with a chance of light snow. Tomorrow, high in 30s. 
TEMPERATURES: 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Bush Dump Quayle and run with ... 
"What a waste it is to lose-------­one's mind, or to not have a mind ... " -Vice President Dan Quayle, at a speech delivered to the NAACP. It is rather clear from such glorious blunders as this that (now, I know some of you may be Paul Pearson shocked to hear this, but Asst. News Editor try to contain yourselves) Dan Quayle ... well, he might not have been the best choice as President Bush's partner in the White House. Therefore, in the true spirit of patriotism and service to country, here are some other possible running mates for Bush in '92. 
• 
COLIN POWELL, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Pros: Has, in most expert opinions, made a great name for himself during the Gulf War. Enjoys immense popu­larity right now. Cons: Might wrongly present Bush as a warmonger who actually wants to send young men to war (which, we have been told time and time again, he doesn't). 

• 
JESSE HELMS, U.S. senator from North Carolina. Pros: Supports many of Bush's domestic plans. Conservative philosophy meshes well with Bush's. Can help the ticket win the all-important Southern vote. Cons: If he runs, kiss the minority vote good-bye. 

• 
ROBERT DOLE, U.S. senator from Kansas. Pr/os: Very familiar with the tricks of campaigning. Highly respected in Washington circles. Cons: Runs the risk of being more popular and effective than Bush (and, for heaven's sake, we can't let that happen). Will probably be too busy running for president himself to help Bush out anyway. 

• 
JESSE JACKSON, chairman of the Rainbow Coalition. Pros: Would guarantee both the minority vote and the white liberal vote. Could convince many young voters that their vote can make a difference. Cons: He's a Democrat. He's also got a talk show to run. 

• 
DIGGER PHELPS, Head coach of the Notre Dame men's basketball team. Pros: Will probably be looking for a job by '92 anyway. Cons: The idea is to WIN the election. (Sorry, but I couldn't resist.) 

• 
BART SIMPSON, television superstar. Pros: Would really help with the young voters. Laid­back attitude ("Don't have a cow, man!") would come in handy in a crisis. Cons: He's only an animated figure (after nearly four months of campaigning, the press might get suspicious ... ) 

• 
RAGHIB "The Rocket" ISMAIL, wide re­ceiver/kickoff returner. Pros: Endorsement deals could really help the funding of the election. Cons: Probably won't want the pay cut that would come with the office. 

• 
SADDAM HUSSEIN, world-renowned villain. Pros: Everyone will recognize the name. Cons: Everyone will recognize the name. Besides, there's probably a rule against dead people (which he'll probably be by '92) running for political office. Perhaps, Mr. President, with this list as a guide, you'll avoid having a vice president who, when asked if he could help carry Cali­fornia, said, "I love California. I grew up in Phoenix." 


Today's  Staff:  Sports  
Dave McMahon  Lab Tech  
News  Scoreboard:  David Lee  
Megan Junius  Mark McGrath  
Brad Galka  Photographers  
Lauren Aquino  Production  Sean Faman  
Wendy Cunningham  
Accent  Karen Mewlove  Circulation  
Michael Krause  Kathleen O'Conner  
VIewpoint  John O'Brian  
Ad Design  Jay Colucci  Alison Cocks  
Amy Eckert  
Dannika Simpson  Systems  
Joy Mueller  Gil Gomez  
Luke Lytell  Patrick Barth  
Jennifer McCarter  
Graphics  
Mike Muldoon  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vac;ation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

FDA approves hepatitis-C drug 
•wASHINGTON -The Food and Drug Administration approved Monday the first effective treatment for non-A, non-B hepatitis, a liver disease that infects about 150,000 Americans every year. The treatment is injections of recombinant interferon alfa, which is already approved for treating several other diseases, including hairy cell leukemia, AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma and genital warts.Non-A, non-B hepatitis, also called Hepatitis C, is usually caused by contact with infected blood and blood products. It is believed to he responsible for more than 90 percent of transfusion-associated hepatitis. 
Health ministers fight epidemic 
•LIMA, Peru (AP) -Health ministers from six South American nations will meet this weAk to discuss efforts to control a cholera epidemic that has claimed at least 150 lives in Peru and threatens to spread, an official said Sunday. Cholera, spread in feces-contaminated water and food, affects the intestines, causing diarrhea and severe fluid loss. It can be fatal if not treated promptly. The health ministers' meeting scheduled for Wednesday was called by Colombian Health Minister Camilo Gonzalez, president of the Hipolito Unanue Convention, said a Health Ministry spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Palestinian police close center IIJERUSALEM -Sunday, police welded shut the doors of two branches of a research institute run by 
OF INTEREST 

•Seniors 
Interested in a year of service should come meet Sister Mary Budde, '90, of the Franciscans to discuss the many options available. Sister Budde will be in the library concourse from 10 a.m. until Noon and in the CSC 1-5 p.m. on Februrary 26 and February 27. 

•Right-to-life 
of ND!SMC is sponsoring a phone-a-thon. benefiting the Women's Care Center. a pro-life pregnancy help center in South Bend, this week, Monday thru Thursday night at 6:30 p.m. in room 212 of the Administration Building. Volunteers are needed. 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 25, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES 193.82 Million  NYSE INDEX 200.50  11­ 0.85  
S&P COMPOSITE  
367.23  •  1.61  
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS  
2,887.87  •  1.49  
PRECIOUS METALS  
GOLD  ~  $2.50  to $ 359.50oz.  
SILVER  ~  6.8¢ to$ 3.576/oz.  

City 
Athens Atlanta Baghdad Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft.Worth Denver Detroit Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid 
Paris Philadelphia Portland, Ore. Rome St. Louis San Francisco South Bend Tokyo 
H L 
52 43 60 45 64 47 40 29 27 15 55 40 44 13 32 22 78 64 58 46 54 26 57 45 71 50 46 39 80 70 32 30 68 52 46 37 54 39 50 34 66 36 68 46 37 25 75 47 30 26 48 30 
50 38 

Jerusalem's leading Palestinian Liberation Organization member. Jerusalem police spokeswoman Anat Granit said the offices of the Arab Studies Society were being closed for six months because they were used for PLO business and not for research. Police confiscated some papers and said they welded the doors shut to prevent the computers and other equipment from being used. The society's main office in Arab east Jerusalem has been closed since July 1988 after police charged it was funded by the PLO and was "an instrument to advance the aims of the (Palestinian) uprising." However, society Director Faisal Husseini denied the offices were used for political purposes. 
NATIONAL 

Barr's suit against tabloid dropped 
•LOS 
ANGELES -A judge on Monday dismissed part of comedian Roseanne Barr's $35 million lawsuit against the National Enquirer for publishing love let­ters she claims the gossip tabloid stole from her. U.S. District Judge Ronald Lew dismissed two racketeering counts against the weekly, saying they did not conform with provisions of federal racketeering statutes. A conspiracy charge was left in place. "This is a significant victory for us, but this is an interim ruling," said Richard Hoffman, an Enquirer attorney. Lew gave Barr's attorney 30 days to file amended claims. 

•Seniors: 
Silvia Bauza of the ND Volunteers for Puerto Rico program will not be here this week as originally scheduled. Silvia will be on campus March 19-21. 

•Multicultural 
executive council applications for the 1991-92 academic year are available at the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Deadline is March 1. Any questions may he directed to Nicole Farmer 283­2877. 




ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1951 : The 22nd Amendment to the Constitution was ratified, limiting a president to two terms in office. 

• 
In 1952: Prime Minister Winston Churchill announced that Britain had developed its own atomic bomb. 

• 
In 1984: The Rev. Jesse Jackson acknowledged in Concord, N.H., using the word "Hymie" to refer to Jews during a private conversation, saying it was "insensitive and wrong." 

• 
In 1986: Pulitzer Prize-winning poet and author Robert Penn Warren was named the first "poet laureate" of the United States by Librarian of Congress Daniel Boorstin. 

• 
One year ago: Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega conceded defeat to his opponent, Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, in a stunning election upset. 


Tuesday, February 26, 1991 The Observer page 3 
United Way names Beauchamp chairman of the board of di·rectors 
By FRANCIS GAUL 
News Writer 
Father William Beauchamp, C.S.C., executive vice president of the University, was named the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the United Way (UW) by the United Way of Saint Joseph County on Wednesday. 
In his acceptance speech, Beauchamp outlined the goals that the United Way would strive for in the coming year: to continue to support self-suffi­ciency within the community, and to continue to supply those groups who receive aid from the UW with information. 
After receiving this honor, he said, "I look forward to these challenges that lie ahead. With your support, I have every con­fidence that we will succeed in the work we have to accom­plish." 
His responsibilities will in­clude fundraising, allocation of _ resources to institutions, and 

Father William Beauchamp 
hiring a cohesive staff to work in conjunction with the Board of Directors. 
His previous experience with the United Way includes Chair­man of the Board of Directors in 1988 and the Vice-Chairman of the Board the prior year. 
In 1988, he headed a cam­paign to raise approximately 
3.4 million dollars; this cam­paign fell short of its goal by less than one percent due to problems within the local econ­omy. Beauchamp referred to it as "a very successful cam­paign." 
Currently, he is involved with the Venture Capital Cycle, a grant program with a budget of $120,000. Its funds are to be used to satisfy the new and emerging needs of the St. Joseph community. 
At this time, there is a special request for proposals address­ing teen pregnancy and parent­ing, a high concern of the UW. Forty-thousand dollars has al­ready been set aside for this purpose. 
Beauchamp first became in­volved with the UW because of its diversity of community in­terests, its strong fundraising program, and its funding based on community need rather than on individual need. 
On Notre Dame's role in the UW, Beauchamp said, "We are part of the St. Joseph County, and it (the UW) allows us to take part in community activi­ties in a meaningful way." 


Discussing issues 
Special to the Observer 
Phones are ringing once again in Haggar Parlor at Saint Mary's College where the sec­ond half of the annual phonathon is taking place. 
The annual phonathon is de­signed to help raise money to combat the steadily increasing costs of college. The objective is to acquire new donors and to get past donors to renew or upgrade gifts. 
This year's goal is set at $100,000. In the first half of the phonathon, during the fall, donations were accumulated in the amount $57,000, leaving less than half of the desired amount to be raised this spring. 
The phonathon is being held in room 303 Haggar, through February 28 from 6-10 p.m. Volunteers are asked to partic­ipate in two hour increments from 6-8 p.m. or 8-10 pm. For every two hours of service each participant receives a free five minute phone call to anywhere in the continental U.S. 
In addition, there are nightly drawings for a free 15 and 30 minute call. 
Training sessions are offered from 6-6:10 p.m. and 8-8:10 
p.m. in which participants re­ceive a script and learn impor­tant information relating to the phonathon. 
"The prizes being offered are a great incentive to help out," explained Sarah Peterek, direc­tor of annual giving for Saint Mary's. 
The grand prize, donated by Travelmore, will be two round­trip American Airline tickets to anywhere in the continental 
U.S. This and other prizes will be awarded at the "Wrap up Party" on March 4, from 6-7 
p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
For further information re­garding the phonathon students should contact their halVteam captain, or call the College Re­lations division at 284-4706. 


Notre Dame law students hold a compelling discussion with guest professor Milner S. Ball (far left). 

is accepting applications for the following positions on our Saint Mary's staff: 
Assistant Editor News Editor Accent Editor Sports Editor Photo Editor Office Manager Advertising. Representative 
Applicants should submit a one page personal statement to Emily Willett by 5 pm, Thursday, February 28, 1991 at the Haggar College Center Desk. For more information call Emily Willett at 284-5086. 
Peaceful protest 
TheObservertE.G. Bailey 

The Gulf Crisis Action Group withstands the cold air Monday 
afternoon while demonstratinq their concerns of finding a diplomatic solution to the ground war at the Fieldhouse Mall. 
SMC phonathon needs volunteers to solicit gifts 
SMC professors speak on propaganda in the war 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Communications professor Carla Johnson stated that there are presently two wars going on, a military war and a pro­paganda war at a lecture titled "The Press and the Authorita­tive Opinion" at Saint Mary's Monday. 
She defined propaganda as a one-sided argument that is not necessarily true and added that "the first casualty of war is the truth." 
Johnson contrasted her expe­riences teaching in the fields of journalism and public relations. As a journalism teacher she had to emphasize "no slant or bias and to be 100 percent ob­jective." 
Conversely, in public relations you are "supposed to manipu­late information-to take the negative and make it positive," she said. Pete Williams from the Pentagon is in public rela­tions, she added. 
The problem with the press in wartime is that it often treats "reporters as stenographers reporting what generals tell us," Johnson said. Andrew Cutrofello, professor of philos­ophy, said that "the media has a political role to play that you can't simply get rid of." 
According to Cutrofello, "The media is in a position where it has to struggle to maintain its autonomy." 
He said that he thinks the media should be thought of as mediating between the govern­ment and the people. It should also ask tough questions and engage in critique. "The edito­rial section is as vital as the news section," Cutrofello stated. 
Johnson pointed out the two kinds of people issuing infor­mation: politicians and military personnel, al)d public relations personnel. 
She further stated that almost all authorization is coming from men-George Bush, Saddam Hussein, and various press secretaries. The only 
see PRESS/page 8 


page 4 The Observer Tuesday, February 26, 1991 
Senate approves the creation of an ethics committee 
By DAVID KINNEY The committee will conduct for their actions," said Bost­The senate approved another representatives selected the News Writer hearings and make recommen­wick. change, proposed by Student freshman. 
dations to the senate or to the Several members of the sen­Body President Rob Pasin, that 
Student Senate approved two changes to the Student Body Constitution Monday night, one creating a Senate ·Ethics Committee and another revising the process of electing Fresh­man representatives. 
The Senate Ethics Committee, formed through a change pro­posed by District Two Senator, Lisa Bostwick, "shall conduct investigation of misuse of stu­dent funds or misconduct of student organizations, their members, or activities upon the request of any member of the Notre Dame Community," ac­cording to the document. 
appropriate University offices in the event that misuse or mis­conduct. 
The document gives the committee the power to rec­ommend probation, the repay­ment of student funds, a sus­pension of funds, removal of club status, or a restriction from using University facilities. 
The accused organization or individual can then appeal to the Student Senate or to Stu­dent Affairs in the event of pro­cedural error or new evidence. 
"This is a move for student government and for the organi­zations to take accountability ate expressed concern about the fact that Student Affairs can simply overturn the decision and that the committee might become a rubber stamp for the administration. 
Bostwick disagreed, saying that if Student Affairs vetoes the decision, "it is going to be a severe loss of faith, (but) at least students will have made the effort." 
"It can be a trust-building measure," said Mark Reuter, "It could have a positive effect in the future." 
The proposal passed by a 12­4 margin. 
revises that way that the freshman class representatives are elected. 
The amendment calls for freshman dorm representatives to be elected by each dorm by Oct. 1. The representatives will serve on the Freshman Class Council until April 1; the council must elect class officers by Nov. 1. 
The major change instituted is the election of the represen­tatives in a uniform process, as a opposed to the past system, in which dorm rectors, hall presidents, and the former 

The change was proposed to solve the problem of inequality and unfairness present in the past, according to Pasin...You'll have a level playing field for all the freshman so that they can get involved," he continued. 
Hall Presidents' Council Co­Chair Mary Dandurand pointed out that several hall presidents objected to the uniform election procedure, since some presi­dents found that different selec­tion systems were more appro­priate for their dorm. 
The change was unanimoun­sly passed by the senate. 
Economists say recession should be briefer than most since WWII 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A substantial majority of the nation's top economic forecasters say the recession will be briefer and less severe than the post-World War II average for downturns, a survey released today showed. 
Sixty-one percent of forecasters polled look for the recession to be shorter than the post-1945 average of 11 months, while 36 percent think it will be about average in length, the National Association 
Elections 
continued from page 1 
know we can do the job, we can implement any ideas." He · hopes to allow the class to have say in class activities through a poll at the beginning of the year. 
Duffy said that "We're looking forward to how well our ticket can do." 
Sixty-three percent of the ju­nior class participated. 
The freshman class election was riddled with "dirty cam­paigns," according to Matt Caito, student government election coordinator. Reinke, Ellen Hujarski, Jack Howard, and Cathy Miller dominated a field of thirteen groups, captur­ing 23 percent, or 298 votes. 
The Jerich, Kenya Johnson, Dave Hoeffel, and Stacy Jones ticket won 13 percent, for 164 of Business Economists said. 
"As for the recession depth, 78 percent expect to see less than the postwar average 2.5 percent decline in GNP (gross national product), while 15 percent expect about an average decline," the association said. 
The survey, conducted during the first two weeks of February, also showed just over half of the 54 economists believe the recession will end in the second quarter. Two-thirds had 
votes, beating out the Scovlar, Emily Lieu, Marcial Sandoval, and Aurelie Gallagher ticket. 
Seventy-three percent of the freshman class voted. 
"We think there's a lot of changes that need to be done," said Miller, of the Reinke ticket. "We'd like more balance be­tween the social and service aspects." 
Jerich emphasized that there were two differences between his ticket and the Reinke ticket. "All four of us worked together on the freshman class council," he said. Their experience will ensure "that it's not an adjust­ment period." 
He said that his ticket hopes to do more to unite the class and close the gap between the North and South Quads, espe­cially through the rotation of interhall events involving dorms from North and South Quads. 

• • THE RisE AND fAlL Of A Slwl
11.1 FOITUME COOliE fACTORY 
Z WEJ>., FEB. !.7 -SAT., MAHeu 2 8: 10 PM 
::t ::S:~::::PM HAU ~1:111: 
ikKrved Seats $7. Studel/lllllll Sentur Ctlizen di.KOIIIII.\ muiltlhlc. U'(.•d. 7bro~. tiiUI S1111 
0 Uuy IK'k\.1~ at l..af'ortu~ Slu<.lc:nt Q·ntL'r or al lhL' door. ,.._:ani and Vl"' <>II <2191 2.1'H!111! 
Ia. 
Spun..,.>re<J t, An .\IM.I· w~ mt"ml.-r.-.101.1 frirndo< in p.!RI"Il1'hlf\ with I~ 'O;ational En· tlo" mt·m for 1~ An,. anti Sf~:ial a.S'-1>-i'-ln<."t• 
from Huu.,.,.,·,. 

predicted last November that it would end in the first three months of this year. 
In the new survey, 22 percent put the low point in the current quarter, while 18 percent said the downturn will bottom out in the third quarter of 1991. 
The GNP fell at an annual rate of 2.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 1990, and the median expectations of the NABE economists are for a 1.6 percent decline in the current quarter and a 0. 3 percent decline in the next. 
A recession generally is defined as at least two consecutive declines in the GNP, the nation's total output of 
Raid 
continued from page 1 
Force did not test everyone in the bar for blood alcohol con­tent, Moon said. Instead, they issued everyone under 21 years of age citations for minor in tavern and/or possession of false identification. 
Approximately four individu­als were cited for nossession of goods and services. 
But while the forecasters extended the length of the recession, they did not significantly alter their projection of the economy's initial recovery. 
They foresee a growth rate of 
1.
9 percent in the third quarter and 2.5 percent in the fourth. The November poll forecast a 

2.0 
percent growth rate in the third quarter and 2.5 percent in the fourth. 


The recovery will continue through 1992, with the economy growing 2.5 percent on a year-over-year basis, up from a decline of 0.2 percent this year, the survey indicated. 
false identification. 
"Whenever you're issued a ci­tation, it's considered an ar­rest," Moon said. The individu­als are required to appear in court and to pay a fine if they plead guilty to the charges. 
Arrests are sometimes re­ferred to the students' schools if the school requests the in­formation. "Whatever penalty the school would place on a student is seoarate from what 

The previous survey forecast growth of 0.5 percent in 1991. 
"Contributing to the recession's end and a recovery beginning in the second half of 1991 are the past easing of monetary policy and the prospects for lower oil prices and a quick resolution to the Gulf War," said the survey summary. 
"On the other hand, concern that monetary policy will not ease further, fast enough, and the reluctance of banks to make loans are the two factors most often mentioned that could make the recession longer and deeper than currently expected," it added. 
our judicial system would," he added. 
Moon said the raids were part of increased SUDS Task Force action after a lull during the holiday season. "I can promise that you will see more and more activity out of our group as the year progresses." 
"We do not randomly raid anyone,'' he said, "We do establish probable cause before we enter a bar or party ... and we onerate within the law."' 
IN l;,L,tiN Slll:JPLE f..~1VGLISIJ 
Dis-tin~-gwisht 
to separate or mark off by differences; perceive or show the difference in; differentiate; to be an essential characteristic of; characterize; to perceive clearly; recognize plainly by any of the senses; to separate and classify; give distinction to. 
Stood~-nt 

one who studies, or investigates. 
a-word~ 

to give by the decision of a law court or arbitrator; to give as the result of judging the relative merits of those in competition; grant. 
the Dis-tin., -gwisht Stood'-nt a-word., 
Nomination forms for the Distinguished Student Award are available in the Alumni Association, LaFortune, the Library Lobby and the entrances of North and South Dining Halls. Who Do You Know? 
The Observer
Tuesday, February 26, 1991 page 5 

A Neutral Perspective The observer/E.G. Bailey lngela Martenson, a Liberal Party member of the Swedish Parlia­ment, spoke at the Notre Dame Law School Monday, on the sub­ject of "The Persian Gulf Crisis: A Neutral Country Perspective." 
MIT professor will present this year's Reilly lectures 

Special to The Observer 
Howard Brenner, Dow pro­fessor of chemical engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, will conduct two lectures at the University of Notre Dame, on Tuesday, March 26 and Thursday, March 28. 
Both lectures will be at 3:30 
p.m. in Room 356 of Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. 
The lectures, "Macrotransport Processes: Generalized Taylor Dispersion Phenomena" on Tuesday and "Interfacial Transport Pro­cesses and Theology" on Thursday, are the 1991 Reilly Lectures in Chemical Engineer­ing. 
Brenner has been at MIT since 1981. He received a bach­elor's degree in chemical engi­neering from Pratt Institute in 1950 and a master's degree and doctorate in chemical engi­neering from New York Univer­sity in 1954 and 1957, respec­tively. 
His research interests are in the modelling of interfacial transport phenomena, the sta­tistical mechanics of colloidal systems, and the Brownian motion of complex bodies. 
Other interests include the flow and transport processes in porous media, ·generalized Tay­lor dispersion phenomena, low Reynolds number hydrodynam­ics, suspension of rheology and aerosol deposition processes. 
Among his honors are the Al­pha Chi Sigma and Walker Awards of the American Insti­tute of Chemical Engineering, the Bingham Medal of the Soci­ety of Rheology, the American Chemical Society Award in col­loid and surface Chemistry, and membership in the National Academy of Engineering. 
Brenner is editor of the But­terworth-Heinemann Series in chemical engineering. This fall he will publish a book in that series entitled Interfacial Transport Processes and Rhe­ology (coauthored with D.A. Edwards and D.T. Wasan). 
Brenner has published about 180 papers and reports with students and colleagues and is the co-author of Low Reynolds Number Hydrodynamics, which is still in print after 25 years. 
Initiated in 1958, the distin­guished -Reilly lectureship at Notre Dame is perhaps the old­est continuing endowed lectureship in chemical engineering in the United States. 
The lecture series is sup­ported by the Peter C. Reilly Fund, which was established in 1945 in honor of the late Peter Reilly, a former University Trustee and a recipient of an honorary Notre Dame degree. 
Wednesday, Febr-uary 27 
Five killed in U.S. Army crash; mechanical failure responsible 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) -A U.S. Army helicopter crashed in a lake east of San Salvador shortly after takeoff Monday, killing the five Army personnel aboard, officials said. 
The pilot of the UH-1 H had reported mechanical trouble minutes before it went down in Lake llopango, at the edge of the capital, U.S. Embassy spokesman Jeff Brown said. 
A U.S.-Salvadoran search for the bodies was suspended at mid-afternoon. U.S. divers said they had located the spot where they believe the helicopter crashed but that the wreckage was about 270 feet down, too deep to reach. 
A U.S. officer said the salvage crew would report back to au­thorities in San Salvador before determining what more might be done to recover the bodies. 
The helicopter, based at Soto Cano air base 40 miles north­east of the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa, took off from Sal­vadoran air force headquarters at Ilopango at 8:40 a.m. and crashed minutes later, Brown said. 

Embassy officials said the aircraft was on a "routine in­
ventory survey mission." 
Aboard were four Army crewmen who were based at Soto Cano and a U.S. Army administrative support special­ist who was assigned to the U.S. military group in El Salvador, Brown said. 
Their names were withheld pending notification of rela­tives. 
The military group consists of a maximum set by the U.S. Congress of 55 U.S. military personnel who train and advise the Salvadoran military. 
Monday's fatal crash was the second of a Honduran-based American helicopter in El Sal­vador in less than two months. 
On Jan. 2, leftist rebels bat­tling the U.S.-backed govern­ment shot down a U.S. Army helicopter flying over eastern El Salvador. The pilot died in the crash. Guerrillas then shot and killed the two injured survivors. 

A U.S. Marine, who suffered a gunshot wound which penetrated his arm and then grazed his chest and 
neck, was wounded, but lucky to survive the first day on the front. 
Sponsor-ed By: 
4:00pm-6:00pm  The Year-ofWomen Committee  
Faculty Dining Room,  & Univer-sity Food Services  
South Dining Hall  
L•ar• te eff•ciive-11j pl~"  ud ortanfz:• ,..,,. m..als.  

Aet•al ~.... •-strat-s will M e-•ucte<l l>oy Ch•f D"nis. P•rticip.-ts willN ,...oYW.4 reci,.s, b•ndeuts.., flM'.Jl pbns Hd tre-ated to actual Sillmples. 

Correction 
The following paragraphs were omitted from Monday's Observer story on financial aid: 
At the end of the meeting, O'Hara talked to the students about plans for future meet­ings. The next meeting, the date for which has not been set, will cover the topic of curriculum issues in the College of Arts and Letters. Dean Michael Loux and Father Oliver Williams, associate provost, are scheduled to attend pending the date of the meeting. 
Future topics of discussion include Freshman Year issues, ethnic faculty concerns and special programs such as the recent $1 million Coca-Cola grant to establish a minority faculty development program. 
The Observer regrets the er­ror. 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, FEB. 21 
5:55 p.m. A Morrissey resident reported the theft of his CB from his truck parked in the D-2 lot sometime between February 1 7 and February 21. 
SATURDAY, FEB. 23 
12:35 a.m. A resident of Dillon was notified by Security that his car parked in 02 had been vandalized. The driver's side window was broken and a radar detector was stolen. The incident occurred between 8:30 p.m. Friday evening and 12:35 a.m. Saturday morning. 
SUNDAY, FEB. 24, 
3 p.m. A resident of Pasquerilla East re­ported receiving a harassing phone call. 
11:20 p.m. The Security monitor at Farley Hall reported that the receiver had been pulled off the phone located in the northwest entrance of Farley Hall. 
American Heart Association 



,,': page 6 The Observer Tuesday, February 26, 1991 
'' 
: i 
\ FDIC will need more money says chairman 
I 
WASHINGTON (AP} -The chairman of the insurance fund 
I 
for bank deposits will seek ap­proval to borrow $10 billion to keep the fund afloat for a while, his spokesman said Monday night. I The Federal Deposit Insur­l ance Corp. would repay the i money by raising the premium banks pay for insurance from 
19.5 cents per $100 of deposits to 23 cents, said Alan Whitney, spokesman for the fund. 
"This is what the board will be voting on Thursday," said Whitney. 
If the board approves, the plan would be published for a period of comment by the pub­lic. 
·, Still unsettled, said Whitney, 
( are where the money would come from and the term for which it would be borrowed. 
In some respects, particularly
l 
the amount to be borrowed, Seidman's plan resembles one put forward earlier this month by the American Bankers Asso­ciation. 
But it leaves some issues open for which the bankers made proposals. Specifically, the bankers proposed that the na­tion's banks should lend the $10 billion. 
The troubles of the banking industry -including 1,000 bank failures in the past six years -have gouged large chunks out of the fund, which fell from $13.2 billion at the end of 1989 to $8.5 billion at the end of 1990. 
There are different projec­tions for what will happen in the future, but the corporation believes the fund balance will be about $4.4 billion at the end of the current calendar year, Whitney said. 

1, 
AP Photo 

U.S. Army Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf gestures during a spec1a1 briefing in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia Sunday. Allied forces have reached all their first-day objectives and are continuing the attack, Schwarzkopf, commander of the allied forces, said. 


AP Photo

Battle Clouds 
Smoke from a burning oil well in Kuwait billows behind an Amtrac from the U.S. Marines Second Division Saturday near the Saudi-Kuwait border prior to the start of the ground war against Iraq. 
Nuclear warheads production will slow 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Energy Department should slow its timetable for restarting tritium production for atomic warheads because of a declining expected need for the material, congressional investi­gators said today. 
A report by the General Ac­counting Office suggested that the scheduled restart of a reac­tor to produce tritium at the Savannah River weapons com­plex in South Carolina be post­poned to resolve any remaining environmental or safety issues. 
Tritium is a perishable ra­dioactive gas that boosts the explosive force of a nuclear weapon. It decays at about 5.5 percent a year and, thereforP.. 
must be replenished in atomic warheads. 
Over the years it has been produced at the Savannah complex near Aiken, S.C., but the three tritium-producing re­actors have been shut down at the complex since 1988 because of needed repairs. 
The Energy Department plans to resume operation of one of the reactors, the so-called "K" reactor, later this year and that of a second reactor possibly in 1992. A restart of the third re­actor has been put off indefi­nitely. 
But the GAO report, prepared for government operations committees in both the House and Senate, suggested that the DOE timetable could be slowed without endangering the na­tion's atomic weapons program and provide more time to con­sider outstanding safety issues. 

"Sufficient tritium supplies will exist to meet the antici­pated needs of our nuclear weapons stockpile for the near term, the next several years," said the GAO in a report to the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee and the House Gov­ernment Committee. 
"It is clear that additional time is available to evaluate outstanding safety and envi­ronmental issues before restarting the Savannah River reactors," said the GAO, which is the investigative arm of Congress. 

:J{es6urgli Program in Pu6£ic Service 
EDUCATION REFORM: 
Problems of School Choice and Funding Inequities 
Panelists: ·Mary K. Boyd-Principal, St. Paul (MN) Open School 
• 
Donald Ern§! -Executive Assistant for Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of the Governor, State of Indiana 

• 
Luis Fraga -Associate Professor of Government, University of Notre Dame 

• 
Thomas Vitullo-Martin -Education Consultant, New York City 


February 27, 1991 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 7:30pm 
Second Annual Public Policy Colloquium 

Tuesday, February 26, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Survey: Smoking, strokes linked 
ALUMNI SENIOR 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS AND JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1991-1992 ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE INFORMATION DESK IN LAFORTUNE 
APPLICATION DEADUNE IS MARCH I, 1991 


SAN FRANCISCO (AP) ­Smokers who go through a pack of cigarettes a day or less have four times the chance of non­smokers of suffering a highly deadly form of stroke called subarachnoid hemorrhage, according to a new survey. 
Researchers also found that a 50-year-old who smokes two packs of cigarettes a day has artery damage comparable to a light smoker 10 years older. The studies were discussed Saturday at the American Heart Association's annual meeting on strokes. · 
Dr. Robert Dempsey, a neu­rosurgeon at the University of Kentucky in Lexington, said re­searchers studying strokes used a special ultrasound scanner to determine the thickness of waxy deposits building up inside the carotid artery, one of the principal suppliers of blood to the brain. 
These deposits can ultimately 
Garden of Crosses 
diminish or block blood flow to parts of the brain, causing strokes. 
In examining 790 patients, Dempsey said researchers dis­covered that the thickness of the deposits, called plaques, was directly related to how much people smoked. 
"Heavy smokers have much more plaque in their carotid ar­teries than non-smokers," Dempsey said. 
Diabetes and high blood pressure were also linked to the formation of plaques, but smoking was a greater risk factor than either of those, he said. 
The other study said those who smoked more than a pack a day had up to 11 times the risk of subarachnoid hemor­rhages, which make up 7 per­cent of the 500,000 strokes suf­fered by Americans each year. 
Dr. Will Longstreth, the study's author, said the risk is especially high within three hours of smoking a cigarette, and then it falls off gradually. But smokers continue to have a higher risk of this kind of stroke even years after they give up cigarettes, he said. 
..If you stop smoking now you're looking at a 10-year pe­riod of time until your risk is what it is in someone who's never smoked," said Longstreth, a neurologist at the University of Washington in Seattle. 
His findings were based on study of 149 stroke victims and 149 people of similar back­grounds who had not had strokes. He concluded that smoking is responsible for about 38 percent of all sub­arachnoid hemorrhages. 
He said that more than 8,000 such strokes could be prevented each year in the United States with the elimination of smoking. 
AP Photo 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The Food and Drug Administration has given the green light to a Boston company to begin the first U.S. tests in humans of a purified blood substitute derived from cow's blood, the company said Monday. 
The initial tests will be aimed at determining the safety of the blood replacement product made by Biopure Corp., a Boston-based development and pharmaceutical manufacturing company. 
The product, called Hemop­ure, contains the oxygen-carry­ing part of cow's blood, called hemoglobin. 
A similar Biopure product for veterinary use, called Oxy­globin, was approved previously for clinical trials by the FDA. 
The company also had won approval previously to conduct 

AP Photo

Prayers on the gulf 
The Rev. Jerry Kimmell leads a Christian church service for mem­
bers of the Army's Tiger Brigade of the First Armored Division in 
Saudi Arabia near the border with Kuwait Saturday on the eve of 
the start of the ground war against Iraq. 
FDA approves safety tests of new blood substitute 
human tests of Hemopure in Canada and anticipates clinical trials will begin in Europe later this year. 
Blood substitutes have the advantage of being purified to the extent that they would not pose a risk of viral contamina­tion, a concern that has intensi­fied during the AIDS epidemic. 
And while the risk of trans­mitting AIDS though blood transfusions has been greatly reduced, though not entirely eliminated, transfusions can pass along other viruses, in­cluding hepatitis. 
The blood substitute stripped of red cells, white cells, plasma and other biologi­cal matter -also does not need to be matched by type with the recipient. 
Lt. Col. Vincent Boyle, center, and members of his family look over rows of crosses, representing Ameri­can lives lost in the Persian Gulf war, Sunday in Washington. The crosses have been placed on the Elipse behind the White House by the Community for Creative Non-Violence. 
Friday March 1, 7:00 p. m. and 9:30 p. m. 
Cushing Auditorium 

All donations to benefit the St. Hedwig's Outreach Center are graciously accepted 
'.
[· 
~ 
~ . 
' 
I' 
'· 
t I' 
page 8 

AP Photo 

Blaze causes deaths 
Policemen stand early Sunday morning below a fire in a 38-story bank building in downtown Philadelphia. Officials said three fire­fighters died in the 12-alarm blaze. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 26, 1991 
Bush administration agrees to not extraditing drug traffickers 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Busli administration officials said Monday they have no quarrel with Colombian President Cesar Gaviria's efforts to get drug traffickers to surrender by promising they will not be ex­tradited to the United States. 
"Our interest and Colombia's interest is in putting narco­traffickers behind bars," said one of two officials who briefed reporters on the eve of Gaviria's visit to the White House. "The most important issue is not whether those bars are manufactured and located in the United States or Colombia," he said. 
Eight major traffickers have surrendered since Gaviria of­fered reduced sentences and no 
Press 
continued from page 3 
woman is a U.S. State Depart­ment spokesperson. 
"Dramatic opinion has au­thority," Johnson said, using Vietnam as an example of the "ultimate dramatic picture." She used recent examples of the prisoner of war picture on the cover of Newsweek magazine, the oil spill, burned Iraqi children, and the picture of Iraqi boy clutching his dog on a stretcher as ways that the press influences our opinion. 
Johnson said that the purpose is to "appeal to Americans' emotions, (by) show(ing) them children and furry animals." 
extradition. They included re­puted Medellin cartel co-leader Fabio Ochoa. 
Gaviria and Bush will discuss the war against drug traffickers as well as trade, agricultural and other issues in talks in the Oval Office and a working luncheon on Tuesday. 
Shortly after arriving here Monday afternoon, Gaviria signed four bilateral agree­ments, one of which provides for speedier U.S. delivery to Colombian authorities of evi­dence against drug traffickers. 
He told a news conference afterward that the Bush admin­istration is not troubled by Colombia's deemphasis on ex­tradition so long as Colombian authorities mete out harsh sen-
Photographs released by the Iraqi government are attempts to get typical American reac­tions, she said. "What they're showing us is what they want us to see," she added. 
Because of the special condi­tions of wartime and the fact that the normal editorial accu­racy cannot always be em­ployed, there is a wide margin for error, Johnson said. The "editorial function collapses." 
This has given rise to the term "messy news," and John­son asserted that "only print can give order to the chaos." However, "war is a mess and the news should be messy." 
In spite of the large amount of media coverage on the Gulf War, Johnson maintains that "we are not getting the dra­tences against traffickers. 

He also denied U.S. media suggestions that Colombian in­terest in the fight against drug smuggling has diminished. 
"We are fighting narcotraf­ficking as hard as ever," Gaviria said. 
Bush traveled to Colombia on Feb. 15, 1990, for the Carta­gena drug summit to express solidarity with the leaders of Colombia, Bolivia and Peru. 
The drug lords in Colombia have killed thousands of people in bombings, gunfights and as­sassinations since Gaviria's predecessor, Virgilio Barco, launched a crackdown in 1989 on the cocaine cartels. 
Gaviria was inaugurated last August. 
matic picture. (Therefore) I consume all that I can to get some fragment of truth." 
Censorship is playing a large part in the absence of a dra­matic picture. In addition, First Amendment rights "are not ap­plicable when the press is working under different gov­ernment (conditions)," Johnson said. "In Saudi Arabia (they are) operating under censor­ship requirements to avoid upsetting the public." 
Johnson listed many of the "euphemistic names" that she described as "(the) important art of politicians." She said that using "sanitized euphemisms to substitute for brutal realities could be the first step toward accepting violence." 
. 
' 
••
'• 

ATTENTION STUDENTS--LAST WEEK OF SIGNUPS Off Campus Sign-ups: 
'•

February 25-March 1 in North and South Dining Halls dur~ng lunch. ' ~
February 25-March 1 at LaFortune information desk. '•• On Campus Sign-ups: 
'. 

Now-March 1. Look for posters in respective dorms. '• 
••,. 

f 
"Christmas in April1991" will take place in the St. Casimir-Ford Street ' ' neighborhood 
. 
••,. This project needs your support:
I 
QUESTIONS??? Please call: 

Tuesday, February 26, 1991 The Observer page 9 
Dollar soars on hope of swift allied victory 

AP Photo

Preparing for takeoff 
U.S. Marine Harrier jump jets maneuver on the deck of the USS Nassau during flight operations in the Persian Gulf Friday. Marines and the navy are preparing for a possible amphibious landing in Kuwait. 
TOKYO {AP) -Expectations of a swift allied victory sent the dollar soaring against the Japanese yen during morning trading Monday, while share prices on the Tokyo Stock Ex­change rebounded moderately. 
The dollar was changing hands at 132.40 yen at late morning, up 1.55 yen from last Friday's close of 130.85 yen. After opening at 132.40 yen, it ranged between 132.20 yen and 
132.47 yen. 
The Nikkei Stock Average of 225 selected issues was up 193.70 points, or 0. 7 5 percent, closing the morning session at 2 6,096. 51. The index lost 
121.56 points, or 0.47 percent, to close at 25,902.81 last Fri­day. 
The market's main barometer fell some 20 points briefly in early morning, mainly due to position adjustments, before regaining ground, stock dealers said. 
Masahiko Nozaki, an analyst with Wako Securities, said many investors were trading hesitantly and waiting for more news from the gulf following the start of the ground war on Sunday. 
"But the index headed higher as the effects of the ground war were factored into the market," Nozaki said. 
Other traders said stable oil prices have been supporting the stock market. 
The benchmark North Sea Brent crude oil for April deliv­ery was quoted at $16.40­$16.50 a barrel at late morning, even with closing levels in New York last Friday. 
Japan imports almost all of its oil, of which some 70 percent comes from the Middle East. 
Yukio Matsunaga, a dealer with the Industrial Bank of Japan, said the dollar was "moving firmly." 
Coup leaders want to reinstate democracy, elections in Thailand 
BANGKOK, Thailand {AP) -behind the rebellion on Satur­and the government. The appointment, made by overthrow of Thailand's Military commanders who day. Apparently not a shot was Chatichai, apparently angered democratically elected govern­easily toppled the government But he told a news conference fired as· the rebels took over the military. Arthit was also ment," the State Department of Prime Minister Chatichai that the junta had not decided if radio and television stations, detained in the coup, according said Saturday. Choonhavan said Sunday they it would continue to hold power dissolved the government and to officers. They said the prime Prime Minister Bob Hawke of want to return the country to before the elections or appoint the Parliament, imposed na­minister was well, but they re­Australia said Sunday, "We democracy and hold elections in a caretaker government in the tionwide martial law, and abol­fused to say where he was be­certainly express the very deep six months. country, where the military has ished the 1978 constitution. ing held. hope that the military powers 
Speaking a day after they took long acted as a key power The coup ended soon after Chatichai, an easygoing will avoid bloodshed or any Chatichai captive and imposed broker. soldiers detained Chatichai just leader famed for remarking "no other abuse of human rights." martial law, the leaders also On Sunday, the junta also re­before his plane took off from problem" during crises, even The country's new leaders said they would amend the pealed military censorship it Bangkok's military airport, Thai "managed to sport a smile while were armed forces commander constitution to prevent the cor­had imposed during the coup newspapers said. being led out of the plane," a Gen. Sunthorn Kongsompong, ruption they said had motivated and said normal radio and tele­He and other ministers were reporter who was aboard the Suchinda and his deputy, and their apparently bloodless coup. vision broadcasts could resume. bound for the northern city of plane was quoted as saying. the navy, air force and police 
"It is our intention that both Only a few soldiers stood guard Chiang Mai to see the constitu­In response to the coup, the chiefs. amending the constitution and outside Army Hall where they tional monarch, King Bhumibol State Department suspended The rebels said foreign policy holding the general election be spoke, and the capital appeared Adulyadej, to present Deputy $16.4 million of mostly devel­would not change. Suchinda done in six months," said Army normal in the wake of the coup, Prime Minister Arthit Kamlang­opment aid. "The United States also said Thailand's policy on Chief Gen. Suchinda Krapayoon, which followed a period of ek in his added post of deputy strongly supports constitutional neighboring Cambodia was un­
one of the five top officers tension between the military defense minister. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS!!! 
HOW WOULD YOU LIKE TO WIN 
SB.000 IN TUITlON CREDITS??? 
(3 Participants) 
BE SURE TO ATTEND 
NOTRE DAME MEN'S BASKETBALL 
if FLY-ens 

TH(; FISHTIN DAYTON FLYERS 
.IRISH 

Tuesday, February 26, 1991 JACC 8:00p.m. 
If your lucky ticket stub number is drawn, you will be chosen to participate in the CENTEL CELLULAR HALFTIME FOUL-SHOT CONTEST! 
(Make 3 out of 5 free-throws and be a winner!!!) 
WE'LL SEE YOU AT THE GAME!!! GOOD LUCK!!! 

rule and deeply regrets the changed. 
Poland will reduce debt, -receive $2 billion in loans 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Warsaw. Poland and the International "It is not the money that is Monetary Fund have reached most important in this deal," tentative agreement on a plan Stefan Kawalec, Poland's chief that would pave the way toward negotiator, told the newspaper. reducing the country's foreign "All declarations about readi­debt and provide $2 billion in ness to reduce Poland's loans, a newspaper said {foreign) debt depended on our Monday. agreement with IMF." 
The report in the daily Gazeta Poland has asked its Western Wyborcza said the agreement creditors to slash up to 80 per­on a three-year package of aid cent of its $46 billion foreign to Poland's economic reform debt in recognition of the na­
l.

program has to be approved by tion's leading role in the demo­\the government and IMF man­cratic reforms in the East bloc. agement. 
The package was drafted Polish officials expect an during several weeks of negoti­agreement on the reduction will ations concluded Sunday in be reached in April. 
r ~ ., 
Ihe-Obseoer-·----­
-

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Sports Editor 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 4 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 27 to Dave Dieteman. For further information, call (239-7471). 
\... 
OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Tuesday, February 26, 1991 page 10 

TURKEY 

U.S.S.R

Demonstration at NO calls for a cease fire 
By ANNMARIE ZELL hemently in areas of conflict amendment which guarantees to power from the devastation News Writer making true peace the priority; freedom of the press. He and the destruction of Germany 
IRAQ 
IRAN a new world order where all asked, "What do they have to that was left to bleed at the end 
KUWAn

The Gulf Crisis Action Group nations are fairly represented hide from us?" and urged the of World War One." held a demonstration for peace in the United Nations; A new audience, "to demand the Monday at the War Memorial in world order where war is not a truth." "If you wish to see another which they called for an imme­game to be played but ~ dis­Daly referred to the banning tyrant, Mr. President,"said diate cease fire and continued grace to be avoided." of songs like, "Imagine," "Give Pritchard, "stay around for explorations into peaceful so­Peace a Chance," and "Walk twenty more years, for surely lutions to the war. The Yellow ribbons placed like an Egyptian" by the British you will find one arising from 
around campus "represent the Broadcasting Company. the bomb-shocked and desolate 
Christine Kempf, a junior, de­untiring hope that there will be Tara Verdonk, a senior, felt ruins of Iraq." scribed the ground war as a an end to the destruction and that the 24 hour ultimatum was Pritchard compared the costs "significant moment, that she harm of the unjust war," said a "hasty ultimatum when Iraq and benefits of the war. He de­looked on with sorrow and dis­Kempf. The black ribbons are was clearly ready to make con­scribed the costs as: gust." She felt that the twenty­"a reminder of the grieving for cessions." •hundreds of Allied troops four hour ultimatum showed the loss of thousands of pre­dead or wounded that the government was intent cious lives," she added. Verdonk claimed that the •hundreds of Iraqi troops AP/Carl Fox on its action and did not give She also noted that some of United States is not carrying out dead or wounded peace an adequate chance. the black ribbons were taken "the true aims of the United •thousands of Iraqi civilians 
Pentagon
down around campus. She re­Nations resolutions." She said and tens of Israeli civilians dead Kempf criticized the world by ferred to that as "blatant disre­that the United Nations called or wounded asking, "What is this new world spect for the reality of death in for a "complete withdrawal," •he laying waste of Iraq and 
warns of 
order? Is it that the U.N. has the Gulf." while the United States de­Kuwait finally succumb to U.S. pres­manded an "unconditional •violent division in the Arab sures only to become is puppet? Kempf concluded her speech withdrawal." world 
possible trick 
Is it that the U.S.A. has deemed by demanding a cease fire, and •nflamed Arab nationalism itself policeman of the world at a termination to what she called Graduate student, David and heightened tension in an WASHINGTON: no sure sign. a time when it cannot even po­the disrespect of humanity. She Pritchard said, "the only winner insecure and violent region that lice_ its drug infested city further urged the audience to of this war will be the war it­will take decades to subside. "This could be a massive streets? Is it that the USA has a call either the White House or self. The war system alone will trick," another senior Pentagon self proclaimed right to subject the Congress and express their emerge from the rubble and As for the gains of the war, official said. "We'll treat them 
people all over the world to its views on the war. desert dust as the victor, Pritchard commented that the as hostile, until they prove own mode of thinking? Is this Sophomore John Daly con­strengthened by the belief that war will not bring back the otherwise." our new world order? I say I demned the role of the press weapons, violence and killing Kuwaiti dead, or prevent the want no part of it." during the Middle East crisis as will provide the answers." rape of Kuwait. Another government official 
Kempf called for a new order "deplorable." Further, he feels Pritchard also warned against Daly closed the rally with a said there were no signs of an in the world, where that the control of the press is totally destroying Iraq, "Let us resounding chorus of "Give orchestrated withdrawal, ··negotiations are pursued ve-in conflict with the first remember that Adolf Hitler rose Peace a Chance." adding· that Bag!ldad's commu­
nications with units in the field were not good and "it's not clear how fast word can filter down." The general and official spoke only on condition of anonymity. 
Earlier in the day, Bush said allied forces were moving quickly toward their objective: Kuwait City. "We have the ini­tiative. We intend to keep it," he said. 
Key lawmakers said the war could not stop as long as Scud missiles remained a threat. "There's no way you're going to have him get out of Kuwait and have a cease fire if he's still shooting at Israel and Saudi Arabia," said Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., chairman of the Armed Services Committee. 
The administration appeared intent on making Saddam bow to every U.S. demand before considering a halt to the war. Bush had insisted that any Iraqi withdrawal be completed within a week -not three weeks as Baghdad and Moscow proposed -arri that Saddam's willingness to withdraw must be expressed "publicly and au­thoritatively" to the United Nations. 


:( '! 
f 
! f 
First cavalry finds many
i Iraqi positions abandoned 
l I 
WITH THE 1ST CAVALRY mander of Charlie Company of DIVISION IN SOUTHERN IRAQ the brigade's 1st Battalion, 5th 
! (AP) -Dave Francavilla looked Cavalry Regiment. "I don't down the deepening hole his know if they deserted or if armored unit was helping they're destroyed or what, but punch into Iraq on Monday and we're being very careful." saw empty bunkers and aban­Francavilla's company of doned positions. Bradley fighting vehicles, nick­
named "The Wolfpack," and Lead armor units of the U.S. other platoons of Bradley's and Army's 1st Cavalry Division's M1-A1 tanks maneuvered 2nd Brigade rolled north be­through two minefields, one hind a line of heavy U.S. ar­about 750 feet deep, and fired tillery fire. They encountered precautionary shots at aban­only sporadic return artillery doned bunkers. fire and scores of Iraqi prison­ers. One danger of such a fast 
plunge into opposing positions 
"What we're encou~tering is the chance that ground units now is a lot of abandoned posi­will get ahead of allied air and tions," said Capt. Francavilla, artillery cover, causing friendly 32, of Colorado Springs, com-fire casualties. 


OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Tuesday, February 26, 1991 page 11 
Iraq says it is withdrawing from Kuwait 
DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) sider retreating combat units as troops were 7 5 to 90 miles into overnight, military commu­Monday as light to moderate. -The American war machine, a movement of war." Iraq, said informed sources who niques claimed unbroken tri­The picture of battlefront ac­pushing deeper into Iraq and Fitzwater said there was no spoke on condition of umphs for Iraq's troops. tivity remained sketchy. The Kuwait, clashed Monday with evidence to suggest the Bagh­anonymity. The ruling party's newspaper command was issuing only lim­the elite Iraqi Republican dad radio report was a genuine Before the deadly Scud at­urged Iraqi soldiers to "strike ited operational information, Guard. Hours later, Baghdad peace offer. tack, the command reported with all your force to salvage and dispatches from reporters surprised the world by an­A senior Pentagon official said U.S. losses so far as "extremely the nation from the abyss of in news pools at the front were nouncing it had ordered its Monday night allied intelligence light" -four Americans killed slavery." slow in reaching rear areas. troops to withdraw from occu­sources had reports of "some and 21 wounded. It also re­The Desert Storm offensive Neal said 270 Iraqi tanks had pied Kuwait. movement of (Iraqi) units going ported the loss of four U.S. air­was launched early Sunday been destroyed in the opera­
The Iraqis, reeling before the north. •• "It's too early to say craft, three of whose pilots were along a 300-mile front stretch­tion's first two days, including 
advance of the U.S.-led alliance, whether it's repositioning or rescued. ing from the Persian Gulf coast 35 of the top-line T-72s, the 
fired a Scud missile that struck withdrawal," said the official, The command said 18,000 deep into the western desert. Republican Guard's main battle 
a U.S. barracks here, killing 27 who spoke on condition of Iraqi troops were taken pris­Under cover of fighter­weapon. 
U.S. service personnel and anonymity. oner in the first two days of the bombers, columns of tanks and The Marines engaged an Iraqi wounding 98, the U.S. com­The official Iraqi radio said all-out ground offensive to free troops from the United States, armored and mechanized-in­mand said. President Saddam Hussein Kuwait of Iraq's control. Saudi Arabia, France, Britain fantry force in Kuwait late 
The U.S. statement, released ordered the withdrawal in line Marines and U.S. paratroop­and seven other nations rum­Monday morning, and de­Tuesday morning, followed a with a Soviet peace plan. A So­ers tightened their grip around bled across the Saudi border, stroyed 50 to 60 tanks, Neal night of searching for the vic­viet plan last week was rejected Kuwait City. But one U.S. official kicking up billowing clouds of said. tims. by Washington, but the Soviets said "it's going to be while" dust as they rolled up mile after 
The Baghdad radio an­on Monday presented undis­before the Americans or allied mile of Iraqi-held territory. In a later action, Army tanks nouncement of a Kuwait pullout closed new proposals at a Arab troops fight house to The unfolding strategy ap­operating with Marines battled said Iraqi troops "have closed U.N. meeting in New house to retake the capital. peared aimed at pinning down more than 150 Iraq tanks and completed their duty of jihad," York. Saudi commander Lt. Gen. the Iraqis in Kuwait City with personnel carriers and "initial or holy war. But it did not spec­In Washington, the White Khalid bin Sultan said the Iraqis Marines and Saudi and Kuwaiti reports indicate again tremen­ify a timetable, and it threw the House dismissed the Baghdad continued a reported terror forces, while sending powerful dous success," he said. diplomatic-military picture into announcement. "The war goes campaign of "rape, murder and allied armored forces through confusion. on," President Bush's torture" in the city, and warned Iraq to loop around Kuwait's Another senior U.S. military 
It appeared the Iraqis might spokesman said. they would be "held responsible western borders and confront official said the second clash attempt a retreat into their The war went well for the before an international court." the Republican Guard units dug involved a unit of Republican home territory under American Desert Storm forces Monday, as In Washington, Bush, contin­in along its northern frontier. Guard tanks -but it was not fire. If successful, it could foil they smashed scores of Iraqi uously updated by his generals As part of the western push, known whether they ere being the desire of some alliance tanks and scooped up thou­on the progress of the war, told U.S. airborne troops knocked out by U.S. warplanes leaders to destroy more of sands more prisoners. the U.S. a White House audience the leapfrogged by helicopter at or tanks. Iraq's military power. command reported. Military of­campaign was "on course and least 50 miles into Iraq on Sun­
White House spokesman Mar­ficials said American units were on schedule." day to establish a forward sup­Said Neal: "We're running into lin Fitzwater told reporters having "tremendous success" in In bomb-battered Baghdad, port base. a substantial number of tanks Monday night that allied forces their first battle with the tough meanwhile, where residents A U.S. command spokesman, and defeating them. We're "will not attack unarmed sol­Republican Guard. were shaken from their sleep by Marine Brig. Gen. Richard Neal, enjoying success. They're being diers in retreat but we will con-The forwardmost American thunderous explosions characterized Iraqi resistance beaten." 
Swedish parliament member speaks on wa.r at NO 
By JOSEPH ADAMS the war effort militarily, but has hostages. While there, she lied coalition permission to use pie in the Arab world have lost News Writer sent a field hospital to the spoke with many top officials, force to remove Iraq from confidence in the U.N. They 
Kuwait. think it has a double standard,"
Middle East and has assisted including Foreign Minister 
The peace movement in Swe­because it ignored earlier re­In a lecture titled "The Per­many refugees in the area. Tariq Aziz. 
Martenson has visited Iraq The officials told her that Iraq den, of which Martenson con­ported human rights violationssian Gulf Crisis: A Neutral 
Country Perspective." Swedish twice. She first traveled there to invaded Kuwait because of siders herself a member, does in the Israeli occupied territo­Parliament member lngela investigate the bombing of "provocation from Kuwait." not support the resolution and ries of the West Bank and Gaza Martenson said that although Halabja, a Kurdish town of According to these officials, is "very much against the war." Strip. 
Sweden has traditionally re­100,000 people. Iraq initially "Kuwait wanted to ruin the She said, "Ten percent of the Swedish Parliament are mem­Martenson said that the warmained neutral, it condemns blamed the bombing on Iran. economy of Iraq by dumping bers of the peace movement." is having little economic effectthe Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and The group of eight persons the price of oil with the support However, a majority of the in Sweden, "for the time being." 
supports the U.N. efforts to with which Martenson traveled of the United States." 
parliament supports the allied She complained that "money
liberate Kuwait. eventually discovered that Iraq Martenson said that the ma­
effort. that could have been spent toWhile Sweden favors the Al­was responsible. Approximately jority of the Swedish public Martenson wondered why the aid the Third World went to thelies, Martenson, a member of 7,000 Kurds in Halabja were support the Allied actions U.N. waited until the invasion of war." She believes that devel­Sweden's Liberal Party, charac­killed with chemical weapons. against Iraq. The official Kuwait to act while it ignored oping countries will suffer the
terized it as "sitting in the au­She more recently went to Swedish opinion is that dience." Sweden is not aiding Iraq in October to negotiate for although it condemns the Iraqi the atrocities committed against most as a result of the expense the release of Swedish invasion, "economic sanctions the Kurds and against many of the war. 



should have been allowed to other citizens of Iraq. She said, ',.1rk longer." "The world should have acted The lecture was sponsored by Sweden supported U.N. reso­much earlier." the Institute for International lution 678, which gave the AI-She worries that "many peo-Peace Studies. 

''Wf MAKE YONTu,,
THE EVE · 
SENIOR FORMAL TUXEDO RENTALS FROM LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
PRICES: 

Black Classic* ................. $39.95+ TAx Designer Tuxedos• ............. $52.50+ TAx Shoes ........................ $ 8.50+ TAx 
*Includes coat, trousers, shirt, tie, cummerbund, jewelry and suspenders. 
PAYMENT: Partial or. full payment may be made. (A $15.00 minimum deposit is required at the time of fitting). We accept cash, VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discever and personal checks. 
WHEN: 

March 5th, 6th and 7th, 1991. (6:00P.M . .: 9:00P.M.) 
WHERE: 

• 
Lafortune Center, Theodore's on Tuesday, March 5th and Wednesday, March 6th. 

• 
LeMans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's on Thursday, March 7th. 





.I 
i 
Viewpoint 
Tuesday, February 26, 1991
page 12 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
to write this letter. 
! 
It is one thing to be '. obnoxious and support our team. Yelling, screaming, andj waving your hands behind the 
I 
basket when opponents shoot free throws is natural at a ·,. l i basketball game. In the words I of Homer Simpson, "I have the right...no, the duty, to make an
,f 
f. ass out of myself at a game!" It 
~ is quite another thing to be obnoxious and offend the other team, the referee and everyone else sitting near the band section. Perhaps a few examples would make this difference apparent. 
Notre Dame has arguably the best fight song of any college in the world. Why, then, do the band members insist on humming the Florida State fight 
I r 
I 
~ 
r 
t 
,_Ihe=ObserYer_=-= 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-chief Alison Cocks 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
John O'Brien  Kathleen O'Connor  
News Edltor•••••••••••••••••••••••Kelley Tuthill  Advertising Manager .........Beth  Bolger  
VIewpoint Editor •......••...•.. Michelle Dall  Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert  
Sports Editor .....................Greg Guffey  Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton  
Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin  Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
Photo Editor .........................Eric Bailey  OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick  
Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis  Controller ....................... Chris Anderson  
Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

yelling at the refs, too, I never ask them to perform sexual acts on me. Maybe the band members in question really to want the ref to meet them after the game, but the fact is there are little kids sitting within earshot of the band. In one instance a woman who had brought her son to the game decided to leave because she found the-remarks so offensive. 
I feel bad writing this letter because it is only a few band members who are guilty of these heinous actions. I really do appreciate the rest of the band, but wish they would stop yelling obscene remarks at basketball games. 
Steve Wagner Off campus 
Feb.21,1991 

Dear Editor: opposes man's deepest desire 
and requirement for happiness: 

Paul Rowe, in a letter to act lovingly toward all of opposing the Gulf War (The God's ·creatures. Again, he Observer, Feb 12), utilizes a rich assumes that all readers share vocabulary to arouse emotions this belief, and he provides no from the reader. Words such as support for this statement. This "stagnation," "sad mediocrity," may be a human need, but "tragic," "arrogance" and perhaps not the strongest. "contempt" attempt to persuade Another questionable topic is the reader into believing that that all people believe that God war is evil. Rowe claims that the is "Love and Beauty." Not all Gulf War will be as immoral as humans share the same picture all other wars in the history of of God. In relation to the Gulf the world. Assuming that the War, Saddam Hussein and other reader agrees with him on this Moslems have declared it a Holy point, Rowe does not describe War, which implies that all who the tragedy of other wars. die in the war go to God. 
Rowe then states that war Apart from these weaknesses, Rowe does present sound arguments. He addresses pro­war sentiments and gives facts to refute them. Many believe that war is a necessary evil and that World War II created peace. In opposition, Rowe tells the reader to look at the current world situation and the unrest in Asia, Mrica, Central America and the Middle East and see if that is peace. He also questions the human right in granting life to the Kuwaitis, yet denying this to the Iraqis. 
Diane Wagrowski Farley Hall 
Feb.21, 1991 


MAJOR WIU.W&HAV& 
~TH/5 TIM/3 7D 
,I)[,TUAL-CASUAL-TIC-S? 
YOU!< P&OPU3 HAVE RCAUY E3E:&N HIPIN6 me 80PYBA65. 
1 / 

JPW is morale boost during cold February 
Dear Editor: weekend approximately 
"JPW should not take place between Christmas Break and during winter months" (The Spring Break gives students Observer, Feb 19) was an who may not see their parents emotional response to Junior until Spring Break a chance to Parents Weekend. The article visit with their parents and ignored any reasoning for the show ofT their new "home." timing of the weekend. I think that Ms. Sweet has 
The main reason for JPW taken a disliking to Junior weeekend is to boost morale. Parents Weekend because, February is famous for not unfortunately, her parents could having much to do. Football not make it due to the weather. season ended over a month ago; It is true that February weather Spring Break is still several is unpredictable in South Bend, weeks away. Placing the but this is the first year in many 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
5UGAROJATI~· 
IT, &11, MAJOR. ? [XJN'T YOU THINK 7HAT'5 INSUWNG TH& PUBU{/5 IN­Tm/65NC&? 
\ 

years that South Bend has even gotten very much snow. I think that when Ms. Sweet has had some time away from this weekend, she may come to realize that the University did not go out of its way to ruin her JPW. If she still feels that the timing for JPW is bad, she should see if she can get involved in scheduling events at Notre Dame. 
Amy Schenkel Howard Hall 
Feb.20,1991 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'You cannot say 'No' to the people you love, not often. That's the secret. And then, when you do, it has to sound like 'Yes,' or you have to make them say 'No." 
Mario Puzzo 


(j(}()[) MORJJIN6. I'M ~IU. MAJOR t.''E!UZZ"f(X;KJ,

~ 
UNTI/; fURTHER N(JTIC&. 7DPAY M'R& ACTivtmN6 TH& Pl?t'n FOX FOR 'Xt101< J 

7H& BUS 
WI~ Be 
tbAVING 
OUT FRONT AT !JC() 
HCX/1<5., 
~ 

RiCK, TH/3 !<EASON YOU {AN7 el&­EMU-80{7'1 BA65/S 7HATWt NO tONGe!< P&516NAT&-THEM AS Wl TH& TE5RM IS INOPEFATIV&. 
/
/ 

UM ... HUMAN 
REMAINS 
FfXOIES. 
,/ 

Viewpoint
Tuesday, February 26, 1991 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Racist letter opens wounds and sadly inhibits dialogue of diversity 
Dear Editor: 
It was with a sinking feeling of shock and regret that I read Paul Peralez's letter regarding SUFR (The Observer, Feb. 15). This was not because I, being white, have reason to feel personally attacked or singled out by his allegations. It is because of the wounds that I fear have now been opened on an already highly emotional and sensitive issue by Peralez's reckless marriage of vengeful intent with ignorance. 
It would be foolish to pretend that the limits and goals of promoting cultural diversity and tolerance are not sources of tension and misunderstanding for all parties involved, on this campus as well as across the country. Campus and country alike pay respect to the ideals of freedom of speech, tolerance of ideological diversity, and the crusade against oppression re­sulting from prejudice-ideals which are themselves uniquely Western in origin. Yet to ac­knowledge this is to damn Western tradition with faint praise, and perhaps it is well­deserved. These phrases all make wonderful rallying-cries when we exercise our constitutional right "for a re­dress of grievances," but in the end, they often seem to boil down to the most transparently relativistic daydreams ever set forth in the name of politics. 
Perhaps the climate on cam­pus in regard to the Gulf war has brought this uncomfortable thought to the forefront of many minds during the past month. How difficult it is, when emotions are high and personal interests at stake, to even consider acknowledging the horrific possibility that not everyone who strongly disagrees with one's views can be easily and conveniently dismissed as an uniformed, short-sighted, self-centered idiot. While we blather on in humanities classes about the importance of open dialogue and compassionate tolerance as ways of uncovering "the real truth," the psychological comfort of engaging in dialogue with the conviction that one's own opinion is the sole correct one-morally or rationally 
-usually wins out. The love of 
being right has a truly amazing 
power to transcend the 
boundaries of race, gender, age 
and culture. 
Unfortunately, being right necessitates someone else being wrong, and that wonderful pas­time of mudslinging ensues. Depending on such timeless cri­teria as the social status of one's "opponent" relative to oneself, the wrong person might be labeled as inferior, undisciplined and incapable of appreciating "the truth" (if their status is "lower"). or as an egotistical, materialistic bigot incapable of humane feelings (if their status is "higher"). How much harder it becomes to avoid this cyclical trap if right has hurt wrong through his ignorance, or vice versa.. 
The humanistic ideal of dialogue as a mutual broaden­ing of minds and perspectives, driven by compassion for others-and the the savage in­stinct of self­preservation-seems doomed from the start. Perhaps no human being is ultimately capable of approaching life with the perspective that he or she must be inherently ignorant. 
But if this is true, then democracy should be done away with straightaway as a useless daydream. Democracy depends on compromise through dialogue, and where ideological anarchy reigns, compromise is no longer possi­ble. Perhaps I am losing my sanity, but I would far prefer to live in the cruelest of dictator­ships than in a "democracy" where "individual freedom" has careened so far out of control that any show of tolerance through compromise is viewed as a loss of power, rather than a gain of mutual respect between inherently limited human beings. 
So what is realistic? How does democracy adapt itself to the context of the cultural "melting pot" that this country proclaims itself to be? Obviously, no one has the answers at this point ­least of all the idealistic, inexperienced young academics on this campus who are presently grappling with this issue. I am speaking about all parties concerned: our colleague Mr. Peralez is not the first mudslinger to take part in this controversy, and he won't be the last. 
This need not, I hope, be a cause of rage and despair, be­cause a certain amount of it is inevitable. But the divide his letter points to-where highly personalized desires to "fight back" with generalized insults interfere with the ability to lay out one's more diplomatic criti­cisms-must be humanely con­fronted and dealt with by all sides. It is a divide which has and will continue to plague all of the current debates over ev­erything from gender equality to cultural diversity and be­yond. To some extent, this democratic process will also demand a paradoxical sacrifice of individualism for the im­proved good of all. 
Particularly since our imme­diate environment is an aca­demic one, the role of dialogue in promoting cultural diversity must not be underemphasized. This, in turn, brings us to the difficult and divisive problem of the role of cultural tradition in designing a curriculum. It is a truism that the current Western ideological canon is no longer adequate to meet the needs of America's increasingly diverse population. But that the canon is, and always was, meant to be cultural only in the ideological-not the ancestral-sense of the term cannot be forgotten, because that status is crucial to the use of it for the purpose of promoting dialogue towards the end of the consensus. 
It is true that we are expected to read Plato and Descartes be­cause they have "influenced" us. Yet, it is also an ideal of the Western tradition that we should feel free to disagree with them, and not find it in­congruous to gradually distance ourselves from some of their perspectives while still embracing others. It is all right, for example, to reject Darwin's Victorian view of women as incongruous with our own, while still agreeing that humans evolved from primates. To do so is not to shame our "heritage." 
Yet there is no reason why 
important figures who were not previously judged fit to "belong" in the canon could not now be added. Indeed, it is critical to do so if we are to pursue tolerance of cultural diversity-provided that Borges, Marquez, Mao, Confucius, Wright, Malcolm X, Gandhi and so forth will be exposed to the same close inspection and criticism as anyone else: not because they are foreign revolutionaries who ought to be purged from our system for good, nor because they are superhumans who deserve blind allegiance from their descendants, but because they are significant and influential thinkers who deserve what democracy holds to be the highest form of respect: critical consideration. Of course, our perspectives on Plato and Descartes will also develop and change as this shift occurs. So be it: neither of these men would ever have agreed that sluggish allegiance to an ideological tradition is good for a society anyway. 
I am not saying that there is no place for tradition for its own sake in our country. Far from it. But its place in a socio­political system like America's needs to be adapted for the ideals of democracy and toler­ance to coexist, and the aca­demic arena seems as good a place as any to further this process. Perhaps I am short­sighted, but to me the present humanities canon, riddled with problems as it is, already has a past in the area of absorbing diverse traditions. Contrary to popular belief, all "white peo­ple" are not descended from ancient Greeks or Renaissance Frenchmen, and while Christianity has proved a signif­icant unifying force among European cultures (as it has in Africa and the Hispanic world, as well-even if Christianity came through imperialism and not from within}, the cultures have remained distinctive in many ways. 
If I wanted to study "where I came from" in the ancestral, not ideological. sense of the world, the last place I would look would be in the pages of Augustine or Aristotle; instead, I would study the vast and unique corpus of Irish lan­guage, art, mythology, ritual and epic poetry, stretching back to Paleolithic times. Yet even this university which calls itself "Irish" -I suppose because someone dresses up like a leprechaun and turns hand­springs at football games-does not have an Irish studies department for me to pursue this aim. Am I being shortchanged? 
Yes and no. If we had such a department, I'd definitely take courses in it, and I would be pleased that we had it. But it seems to me that if I did so with the thought that I was somehow working toward the end of promoting cultural diversity in this country-which depends so heavily on the achievement of an ideological consensus to function-I'd be heading the wrong way. Increased pride in my ancestral culture will not necessarily make me arrogant and self­righteous, but it's not going to help me deal with the less ro­mantic reality of American plu­ralism and its social implica­tions, either. 
I hope we do see an increase in the number and scope of cul­tural studies departments, perhaps the best academic bet for promoting tolerance of cultural diversity in our context would be a course specifically designed to deal with the uniquely American dimensions of this conflict. A course where all cultures' formative ideas could become subjects of re­spectful, critical consideration among students who are them­selves of culturally diverse backgrounds-rather than ob­jects of blind romanticizing, which is the mother of stagna­tion and the factionalism it breeds. 
As for our fellow mudslingers, the best we can do-for ourselves and for them-is not to assail or ostracize them, but rather to humanely help them, and ourselves, to learn to move beyond such reckless ignorance, and towards compromise through improved education and dialogue. 
Jennifer Crosson Pasquerilla West 
Feb. 17,1991 

African-American student reflects on SUFR demands and Peralez letter 
Dear Editor: 
As I reflect on the letter of Paul Peralez (The Observer, Feb. 11), a lot of ideas run through my mind. I am a student at Notre Dame, but I am not a member of SUFR, which Paul Peralez implies all African­American students support wholeheartedly. 
Although not involved with SUFR, I have kept abreast of everything that is happening. There are some group demands I agree with and others which I do not. In any case, Paul Peralez seems to disagree with what I consider the best of all of SUFR's demands: a cultural center, a class which every student must participate in, a racial harassment policy, and adequate minority faculty representation. 
These demands seem reasonable enough. Classes in cultural studies can facilitate open discussions about different ethnicities and backgrounds, as well as the need to address covert racial feelings and isolation of the different groups on campus. The thing that makes me proud of SUFR members is that discussions are no longer limited to dorm rooms as they once were. They have opened the door for discussion in public about what some feel in private. For too many years (I've been here five), I have heard enough conversations about how "those white people" or ..those black people" or those "Mexican people" are to know that too many misconceptions exist about people in general. 
I think it is a good idea for the University to help dispel the myths between student~ of color and white students through courses which impose on people to air feelings, interact, and learn about each other as openly and as honestly as possible. It is not enough for different cultures to be present; interaction and learning must be a goal to facilitate understanding and growth between all ethnic groups. Besides, we are required to take theology courses to become well-rounded Christian individuals; why not cultural studies to become well­rounded, culturally aware individuals? 
Next, I do think a racial harassment policy is in order. Just as there need to be policies regarding sexual harassment of women, there need to be policies regarding harassment on a racial basis. For me, being an African-American female, the two things go hand-in-hand. I think it is essential that the University have a policy, if for no other reason than to be prepared. Isn't it better to take your umbrella along when there is a slight chance of rain than to get soaking wet because you didn't prepare yourself for the possibility of rain? 
Finally, I understand that faculty representation is a problem for every major university. However, I think what SUFR is asking for is that efforts be made by the University, not only to get more minority faculty members, but to make every effort to retain the faculty members which are present. Every year it seems, at least one is lost from the University. If the University could at least keep the ones which are already present, half the battle is already won. 
I'd also like to address some of Paul Peralez's statements. The first is the assumption that SUFR represents all African­American students and Hispanic students want no part of it. SUFR only purports to represent members that are in the group and no one else. This includes African-Americans which are not part of the group and Hispanic-Americans which are a part of the group. In other words, only those who are in the group of African-American or Hispanic-American descent are the ones who's view are represented. There is no claim to represent every single minority individual's view. 
The second assumption is that standards are lowered for minorities. Well, the last time I thought about it, I was quite qualified to study alongside my peers at Notre Dame. I came in with the class of 1990 in the year 1986 sporting an A­average and an SAT score better than the average. I also happened to be valedictorian of my high school graduating class. I think these things place me among the other scholars here, and I'm sure no standards were lowered for me to attend. 
Finally, although I don't agree with everything SUFR demands, I do think that progress of the group benefits minorities as a whole, whether all minority students aid the cause or not. One thing I'd like for every student to keep in mind, which is something I reconsider each time I sit at the computer and enter grades to the Hispanic Project in the Psychology building where I work, is that there are still troubles among ethnic minority groups, no matter how advanced certain segments of the group may become. 
Ultimately, I think at the heart of SUFR is a need for recognition of the problems of minorities as a whole. and it doesn't matter which group is advancing the most rapidly. What matters is that there are still others at the bottom of the totem pole, and this is where all efforts should be concentrated. Thus, the main thing I think SUFR members want is recognition. Better yet, to use the term of the group, they want respect-to show that minorities exist and should be considered and not just thrown in with the crowd and treated as if everyone accepts them as such. 
Lena Jefferson Off-Campus 
Feb.22,1991 

2nd annual banquet celebrates Medieval customs 
..--­

By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Accent Writer 
(Trumpet fanfare.) The Medieval Club requests the presence of all loyal servants of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's kingdoms at its second annual banquet to be held Friday, March 1. No prerequi­site of medieval knowledge re­quired to attend! 
A knight bravely rides· into battle to preserve a lady's virtue. A king and his court reside in a magnificent castle. Such are the traditional images of the Middle Ages-~a time of romance and glory when chivalry was not dead. 


Last January a small group of students came together to promote a broader awareness of culture in the Middle Ages. Some had majors or concentra­tions in medieval history, while others brought outside interest and a desire to learn to the group. 
Together the members of the Medieval Club have used the vast resources of Notre Dame's world class Medieval Institute and the expertise of their spon­

~­
sor Dr. Jonathan Boulton, to uncover both scholarly and en­tertaining aspects of the Middle Ages. 
The organization has con­ducted student/faculty informa­tion sessions to learn more about the Middle Ages and pro­grams offered at Notre Dame, sponsored trips to Chicago for tours of the Art Institute, and 
I I 

page 14 Tuesday, February 26, 1991 
Hearye,hearye,hearye! 
Accent 
hopes to offer movies based on anachronism) and will not have the medieval times. to throw rib bones over their 
The club hopes to share its shoulders, they will still be findings with the rest of the exposed to some unique community at its yearly ban­culinary rituals. They will wit­quet in the Faculty Dining ness the presentation of salt Room in the upstairs of the and bread, washing of fingers, South Dining Hall. and testing drinks for poison. 
While those attending the According to group member dinner will be allowed to use Cecilia Michel, while seating eating utensils (in spite of the will take place at 6:30p.m., the 

Cecilia Michei!The Observer 

Tasha Gutting presents The Salt in a pre-dinner ritual at the Medieval Club's annual banquet. 

festivities will actually begin at 
7:00 p.m. with a procession of Medieval Club members. 
She explains that banners carried by members in authentic-looking medieval garb will usher in a true feeling of a royal feast during the Middle Ages. The dining hall itself promises to enrich the atmosphere with its gothic windows and steel chandeliers. 
Michel describes how once the stage is set a dinner of prime rib, assorted vegetables, salad and soup will be served. This delectable arrangement will be catered by University Food Services, but do not expect any potatoes since such luxuries did not appear until at least the 16th century. 
During dinner ears will be delighted by the melodious sounds of a live recorder group while a court jester roams the grounds amusing the guests. 
As dinner is cleared and the dessert brought forth, the evening will close with a read­ing of an original play based on the lives and times of King Arthur. This piece was com­posed by Michel herself and will be performed by members of the club. 
In offering the banquet the club hopes to give Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and faculty a lighthearted taste of medieval customs and rituals that reaches further than the traditional understanding of the Middle Ages. 
Tickets for the event are $10 for students and $18 for fac­ulty. They will be available until Wednesday, February 27 and can be purchased from any Medieval Club member or by calling Cecilia Michel at 283­4225 or Tasha Gutting at 283­4416. 
High Jl nks in the Hesburg·h Library 
Midterms, midterms, midterms, midterms... you gotta love 'em! (Ya don't gots no choice, does ya?) Whether it's exams, papers or projects, there's nothing in the world like those two weeks of intensive work before a vacation. {However, some forms of ex­ploratory dental surgery per­formed without anesthesia probably take a close second.) 
With midterms come studying {usually) and with study comes... procrastination {always}! There's nothing like an undeniable sense of impend­ing doom to cause a student's mind to suddenly become dis­tracted by minor events and trivial occurrences. 
Suddenly almost anything ­telephone calls from parents, TV game shows, cleaning your room, those fuzzy little balls that form on your sweaters, anything -becomes ten times more interesting than the fact that your twenty-page foot­noted theology paper on the New Testament Gospels is due five hours from now, and all you have typed so far is a three-sentence plot synopsis: "Jesus preaches and performs miracles. He is nailed to a cross and dies. Then, in a surprise twist, He rises on the third day." 
The more the pressure, the 
lan Mitchell Lion Taming 
greater the urge to pro­crastinate. 
Many students spend much of their studying time in the li­brary. (You know, that big building with the books.) Some people think it's easier to get work done there because, un­like a dorm, the entire struc­ture is completely dedicated to the pursuit of knowledge, and distractions are kept to a min­imum. The truly serious goof­offs, however, can find enter­tainment anywhere. 
Sure, there's always the fun of sticking unchecked books into someone else's backpack and watching them get stopped at the gate, or trying to smug­gle out an entire set of encyclo­pedias past the watchful eye of the ever-vigilant library moni­tor. 
(Does anyone out there have volume 24 of the World Book, by the way?) But these are tame, unoriginal ideas. The true procrastinator extrordi­naire will seek out new ways to avoid work. 
Playing elevator attendant is good for an hour or two of fun: {"What floor please? Please stand clear of the doors."), but in order to be really convincing and bewilder library patrons, you have to get some kind of uniform -a little too much work, all things considered. 

(FUN FACT: Do you know that each floor of the library has a different color combination in the tiled elevator area? Why not tour them all and pick your favorite!) 
Serious students use the University of Notre Dame Libraries Online Catalogue {UNLOC) to find research ma­terial for their classroom pro­jects, advancing 'i.he knowledge and wisdom of man like wor­shippers in the temple of knowledge did centuries ago in ancient, far-away lands. Others use UNLOC as a means of killing time. 
In my humble opinion, the keyword command {K=) is the most entertaining. You can have fun with the keyword in two main ways: 
One, try to define a sense of priorities: PEACE has 4201 en­tires, but WAR has 18,527. On the positive side though, LOVE has 3382, while HATE has only 
60. While K=DOG will only give 210 entries, K=GOD yields 5153. 
What does this mean, you 

ask? {"What does this mean?") which has 17,279 entries. Probably very little, but if CATHOLIC would seem to be a you're desperate to avoid work, clear favorite, with 27,542 you'll try it anyway. entries, but the winner so far is 
A second UNLOC game is to AMERICA, with 31,924 entries. try to find the word with the Can you top that? Can youmost entries. Typing K=NOTRE spend hours trying? I knew youDAME gives 11,625, but could. Just keep thinking to RELIGION has 13,37 4, which in yourself: spring break is just a 
turn is topped by REPORT, little over a week away. 
~-------------.......................................&........................... 

Tuesday, February 26, 1991 The Observer page 15 
McEnroe, 987th-ranked Connors to Sealy's 20 leads St. John's play today in Volvo Chicago tourney in win over Georgetown 
CHICAGO (AP)-Third-seeded Petr Korda of Czechoslovakia withstood an opening-set chal­lenge from Peter Lundgren and then beat the Swede 7-6 (7-5), 6-1 in the first round of the Volvo Chicago tournament on Monday. 
In other first-round matches, No. 8 Gary Muller of South Africa defeated Jean-Philippe Fleurian of France 6-4, 6-4; Ramesh Krishnan of India beat Aki Rauhunen of Finland 6-1, 6-4; MaliVai Washington over­powered Marian Vajda 6-1, 6-1 and David Pate eliminated Luis Herrera of Mexico 6-3, 6-2. 
Korda blew a 5-2 advantage in the first set and trailed 3-2 in the tiebreaker before Korda's passing shots and cross-court volleys gave him the tiebreaker 7-5. 
The Czech buried Lundgren in a second-set barrage. The Swede held his serve in the first game of the second set but then was broken in his next three service games. 
Muller had 12 aces and won 27 of 30 first-service points in beating Fleurian, who beat Boris Becker at Key Biscayne, Fla., last year. 
Pate, whose serve was mea­sured at 121 mph, took only 58 minutes to eliminate Herrera. 
Top-seeded John McEnroe, the only player in the 32-man sin­gles tourney ranked in the world's top 20, plays Tuesday against Gilad Bloom of Israel. 
Also scheduled to play on Tuesday is Jimmy Connors, the one-time No. 1 player in the world now ranked 987th. Connors, who hasn't played since undergoing surgery on his left wrist in October, opens against Jaime Yzaga of Peru. 
At age 38, Connors is looking forward to his 20th pro season. 
"What a beautiful situation to be in," he said. "I can swing from the hip the way everyone has always played me, with nothing to lose. I've never been in this position before." 
Connors has done some com­mentary on a limited basis for NBC and has many business in­terests, but has remained active in the game. 
"I love everything to do with tennis, not hanging around the locker room, but actually play­ing tennis, the exercise, being able to make a living at it. I just love the game. Playing in public, picking up the check, it's all gravy." 
Connors won a couple singles titles 1989, but 1990 was ru­ined when he injured his wrist in a tournament in February. 
After surgery, he was in a full­arm cast for 6 1/2 weeks and a half-cast for 2 1/2 weeks. Since then, he has been working out with former pros John Lloyd and Marty Riessen. 
"I've practiced to the point where I've had enough practice already and it's time to go out and play matches, cut loose and see what happens," he said. ''I'm very nervous about playing because I've been gone for so long. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Malik Sealy scored 20 points and No. 17 St. John's scored inside and from the foul line Monday night to beat Georgetown 68-58. 
The Redmen (20-6, 10-6) ended their Big East regular season with a chance at finish­ing in a tie for first place. Syracuse is 10-4 and Seton Hall and Pittsburgh are both 8-6, all with two conference games to play. 
Georgetown (16-1 0, 8-7) still has to be considered a bubble team for an at-large berth to the NCAA tournament. The Hoyas, who fell from the Top 25 this week for this first time this season, have lost four of the last five. They are just 12-10 against Division I teams. 

St. John's, which has won four of five, led for the last 30 min­utes of the game and were never really in trouble despite making only three field goals in the final 14 minutes. One of those was on a goaltending call and another was a 3-point heave by Robert Werdann at the final buzzer. 
Jason Buchanan's pull-up jumper with 14:23 to play gave the Redmen a 45-37 lead, but the Hoyas scored four straight points, including a free throw by Alonzo Mourning with 12:4 7 to play, the first point of the game for the 6-foot-1 0 power forward. 
Georgetown, which shot just 38 percent for the game (19­for-50), got within four points one more time, 55-51 with 3:09 left on two free throws by Mourning, who finished with only six points and four re­bounds. 
St. John's, which outre­bounded the Hoyas 34-27, then made eight of 13 free throws. Georgetown managed seven points in the final 1:22, five on jumpers by Robert Churchwell and two on Mourning's first field goal of the game, a layup with 5 seconds to play. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all
Classifieds 
spaces. 

[ NOTICES ,,L..-_F_O_R_R_E_NT___.I ----------.....1 GRAD. WEEKEND  I TICKETS BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING  HAPPY 22nd SHEALYN! WISHING YOU A WONDERFUL DAY AND AN EXCITING YEAR AS YOU BEGIN YOUR ROAD TO  ADOPTION: Loving, professional couple will give your newborn the best things in life. Let us help you through this difficult time. Medical  Going to Syr, NY 4 break? Need plane tix cheap? Call x3623  
TYPING AVAILABLE  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING  SUCCESS. MAY ALL YOUR  expenses paid. Legal/confidential.  NOW LEASING  
287-4082  219-291-7153.  BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING  WISHES COME TRUE!  Call Barbara and Joe anytime.  LAFAYETIE SQUARE  
LOVE, MOM AND DAD  (800) 253-8086.  TOWNHOMES  
NY TIMES, used and new books  Sun. Feb. 24, 1991 12:30pm  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  3 Bedroom Homes.  7:30pm  SHEALYN MCGUIRE  4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS  
corner of NO ave. & Howard  Walk to campus.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO MY  Resumes .... Professional quality  AVAILABLE  
1 0-5:30 everyday  232-3616  Wed. Feb. 27, 1991  7:30pm  FAVORITE COLLEGE SENIOR  272-5667. (Tom Williams)  
AND SISTER! HOPE YOUR  AMENITIES INCLUDE:  
WORD PROCESSING -Term  Fri.  Mar. 1, 1991  8:OOpm  CELEBRATION IS A SUPER ONE.  EMILY WASSERMAN!  -WASHER AND DRYER  
papers, reports, letters, etc.  HAVE A WONDERFUL TIME IN  CONGRATULATIONS!!!  -SECURITY SYSTEM  
Experienced legal secretary.  Move Off Campus in '91-'92.  Show your support and buy tickets  MONTREAL. DON'T FORGET TO  You made it through your first  -DISHWASHER  
(616) 699-7387.  3 great houses avail. Sign  from the student boxers !!!  COME BACK THIS TIME!  night being a legal drinker!  -CENTRAL AIR  
lease before break and get  LOVE, KATEL YN  How are ya feeling in logic  -PATIOS  
SPRING BREAK!!! $136.00  discount. Call now 288-5653.  FOR SALE: rd trp tkt, Kzoo,MI to  today???  
ROUND TRIP ANYWHERE  Newark,NJ-Ieave 3/8,return 3/17.  -Ker & Maria  ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS  
GREYHOUND GOES.  must be female, VERY CHEAP!  HAPPY BIRTHDAY, SHEA!  LEFT!!!!!!!  
RESTRICTIONS APPLY 287-6541  FLORIDA KEYS!  x4859  I'LL BE THINKING OF YOU AND  Call For More Info Now  
HOUSE RENTALS  RAISING A FEW BUBBLES IN  *****..JOHN "HERBIE" O'BRIEN,  232-8256  
RESUMES.. PROFESSIONAL  Near Key West and beaches Call Rich 288-5428  PERSONALS  YOUR HONOR! HOPE YOUR DAY IS EXCITING!  Just because you're hot for us doesn't mean you can call  ATIENTION TO:  
QUALITY. CALL 272-5667.  LOVE, DEBS  us losers. loser! Remember...  SHAKESPEARE DEVOTEES  
Attention: N.D. Students  Adoption: Loving couple, doctor  Your the one who started this  
FOR RENT-8 ROOM  and teacher, longing to share our  Dearest Michael Hortatsos .....  payback WAR!!  Auditions for "Comedy of Errors," a  
TYPING term  PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOUSE,  love with newborn. We'll give your  Love & Kisses,  farce by William Shakespeare, will  
papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick  CONVENIENT TO DOWNTOWN,  baby a caring, warm, and happy  Everyone is talking about your  K&M  be:  
up & delivery available. 277-5134  NOTRE DAME, MEMORIAL  home.  Expenses paid.  Call Carol  exquisite Greek body? Would you  P.S.-Too bad about your disease ...  
Cathy  HOSPITAL, BUS LAW STUDENTS.  and Frank collect 212-874-3537.  care to show us in its entirety?  hope it clears up!  This Thursday from 3-6 p.m. at  
FOR FURTHER INFO,  THEODORE'S  
I LOST/FOUND I  CALL 232-4412 BETWEEN 9AM-10PM.  CLUB 23 Daily Specials. New addition:  As always, love and licks.  Attention all Crew team members (present and former): Only six more  This Friday from 6-9 p.m. at THEODORE'S  
The Coffee House  SHEALYN  days until John O'Brien's 21st  For more information contact Scott  
FOUND: A necklace on 16 Feb in the snow near P.E. Call x4530.  4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92 Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone#232-1776.  Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO A MOST SPECIAL GRANDDAUGHTER!  birthday. See you in Orlando.  Brutocao at 234-1 048 or Paul Salvatoriello at x1355.  
LOST:  Furnished Bedrooms and Shared  Open daily 4pm-3am.  MAY YOUR 22nd YEAR BE AS SUCCESSFUL AS YOUR DREAMS  Photography for Formals-Halls­ All interested PLEASE attend. If  
A 35mm camera was left hanging on the coat rack in Room 101 of  Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr. Washer and Dryer. $200 per month  CLUB 23  WILL ALLOW! LOVE. PAPA AND FAMILY  Dances-ROTC. CaiiiHS Photography at 234-8539.  these times are bad for you, don't hesitate to call.  
Galvin Life Sciences on Sat. the 16th-during JPW weekend_ If you  includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776.  Daily Specials. New addition: The Coffee House  Malini.....  
have any info. , please please call: Tim #1151 FOUND: WRISTWATCH ON FEB. 141N FRONT OF BREEN-PHILIPS.  FOR SALE FOR SALE Macintosh Plus with two BOOK disk  Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. CLUB 23  Ms. Serwatka-This display of affection may not be as 'touching' or as costly as the one to Chicago, but ... it's from  I heard you did some intellectual reading on Sunday night. What's your favorite position on the subject? Missionary?  Michelle B. -Care for a fudge pop? NINE: ALRIGHT, FOR THE LAST TIME, WHAT REALLY WENT DOWN IN  
CALL 277-5912 OR 239-6886 (Romance Languages)  drives and word processing software. Call Alison at 283-4011.  Daily Specials. New addition: The Coffee House Bring your books and come  the heart. HAPPY BIRTHDAY WEASEL!  FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305.  THE BATHROOM FRIDAY NITE? THIS FRIDAY, WE CLAIM THE BEANBAG! UNTIL THEN,  
Found : corduroy NO cap after Depaul game in band room under stands. Call Matt-x 3472.  PLEASE BUY ME! I AM NEW FULL-LENGTH SILVER FOX FUR COAT MEDIUM. PLEASE CALL 255-4139.  study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. CLUB 23  ATIENTION! ATIENTION! ATIENCION! TAKE YOUR FRUSTRATIONS OUT  •• Spring Break Money •• Notre Dame Fed Credit Union No Co-Signer Necessary •• See Our Ad ••  THE TWINS AND THEIR BLONDE FRIEND P.S. We thought you gave THAT up for lent!!  
LOST: I lost my thin link gold  GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1  Daily Specials. New addition:  ON THOSE WILD & RECKLESS  
bracelet on Wednesday, Feburary 20!! If you find it, please call Jessica at 4824. LOST nice Casio calculator.  (U repair). Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. Your area (1) 805 962-8000. Ext. GH-9834 for current repo list.  The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am.  LYONITES! CREAM YOUR FAVORITE L YONITE. SIGN-UPS AT THE DINING HALLS DURING DINNER  Pat ''the Silent Assasin" Owens (or shall we just call you Stinky?), I will see Friday in your sexy silk robe. I cannot wait!  STOP THE WAR YELLOW RIBBONS: HOPE FOR PEACE BLACK RIBBONS: MOURN:NG THE DEAD  
Saturday probably at the Huddle. If you found it, PLEASE return it-no questions asked. Reward. call4354. WANTED  82 TOYOTA TERCEL SR5 HATCHBACK, 53,000 MILES, AIR, STEREO, EXCELL. CONDIT, ONE OWNER. X 232-8718. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  CLUB 23 Daily Specials. New addition: The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am.  TIME. TAKES PLACE UNDER THE ARCH AT 4:30 FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1991. HELP , PLEASE SAVE ME FROM MY ROOMATE. I NEED A RIDE  Airline Ticket for Sale to Corpus Christi, TX (Next to South Padre) for Spring Break REAL CHEAP Call x2090 Ask for Rob  ON ALL SIDES STOP THE WAR Scott Lindley, the man among whimps, is Farley's personal sex slave. Callan,  
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT B 340.  Buying a car? Good rates. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00,289-1993. Office near campus.  I need a ride to D.C.Nirginia for Easter Break. Dana x2697. You will enjoy my company.  TO GEORGIA FOR SRING BREAK. IF YOU ARE GOING TO GEORGIA OR FLORIDA PLEASE GIVE ME A LIFT.  GOOD LUCK TO Pete "do you wanna dance" Botini and  You know the question and you know that I know the answer... NO!!!!!!!(once again)  
SPRING BREAK SPECIAL  MICHELLE ROCH  Mick "quag" Meyer  
I NEED ride to Boston  RIDE to Daytona, Florida available  SAVE SAVE SAVE!!  284-4338  farmer john, i'm in love with your  
Will split gas &driving March 7, 8, or 9  for 4 people over Spring break. Call Tim  CANCUN FROM $349 A WEEK OF FUN AND SUN!!  Sea Monkey Conspiracy  daughter (pinky)  
Derek x1373  271 8795  SUN SPLASH TOURS 1 -800-426-771 0.  HAPPY 21ST, EILEEN! MAY ALL YOUR DREAMS COME  is looking for a new singer or  JAKE-l NEVER WANT TO SEE  
Need ride toN. VA, Bait. or DC area for spring break. Will help pay expenses.  For Sale: 1 rnd trp tix to Orlando for Spring Break. We'll talk price. Call Robx1891  2 people need a ride to Minneapolis area over  TRUE! LOVE, MOM, DAD, KERRY, AND ELIZABETH  singer/guitarist willing to begin immediately. Please call Thom x3334 or Kevin x3347  RALPH IN OUR ROOM AGAIN! Thank You, St. Jude.  
Chris 1235.  Spring Break. Call X4900  
• f  .)  ' _. ;  I  

l I 
·• ·t • (' ' ~ ' .. .. ! 
Tuesday, February 26, 1991
page 16 Scoreboard 
TRANSACTIONS NHL STANDINGS 
BASEBALL WALES CONFERENCE American league Patrick Divialon 
CLEVELAND INDIANS-Agreed to terms with 
w l TSandy Alomar Jr., catcher, and Jeff Manto, NY Rangers 32 22 10Infielder, on one-year contracts. 

Philadelphia 31 27 7

TEXAS RANGERS-Named Marc Sullivan 
Pittsburgh 32 27 4 advance scout and Larry Himes scouting New Jersey 27 26 11 

consu~ant. 
Washington 28 32 4 

National league 
NY Islanders 21 35 8 

SAN DIEGO PADRES-Agreed to a two-year contract extension through 1993 with Yuma, Ariz.• 
Adama Divlalon 

their spring training site. 
x-Boston 36 20 8 x-Montreal 32 24 8

BASKETBALL 
Hartford 28 28 7

National Baaketball A..oclatlon 
Buffalo 23 25 15 

GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS-Placed Tom 
Quebec 12 41 11 Tolbert, forward, on the injured list. Activated Les Jepsen, center. 

CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norria Diviaion 

FOOTBALL 
w l T National Football league x-5t. Louis 38 18 7 PHOENIX CARDINALS-Agreed to terms with x-Chicago 38 20 6 Tyronne Stowe. linebacker. 

Detroit 27 31 8Canadian Football League Minnesota 21 32 11TORONTO ARGONAUTS-Announced that the Toronto 17 40 7team has been purchased by a group headed by Bruce McNall. 

Smythe DlvlalonWorld League of American Football 

Los Angeles 36 20 7NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY KNIGHTS-Named Calgary 34 21 7Darryl Jackson co-offensive coordinator; Chuck Edmonton 30 29 4Botta equipment manager and Mike Kisan video Winnipeg 22 33 11director. 

Vancouver 22 36 7 HOCKEY 
x-clinched playoff berth 

National Hockey league BUFFALO SABRES-fleassigned Greg Brown, 
Monday'• Gamea 

defenseman, to Rochester of the American Hockey Late Game Not Included 
League. 
Detro~ 5, Toronto 4, OT N8'N Jersey 5, Washington 1 HORSE RACING Calgary at Vancouver, (n) 

New York Racing Aaaociatlon NYRA-Suspended Michael Laudano. trainer, Tueaday'a Game•lor 45 days for using and illegal stimulant In one of Pta 74 69 68 65 60 50 
80 72 63 61 35 
Pta 83 82 62 53 41 
79 75 64 55 51 
Buffalo at N.Y. Islanders. 7:35p.m.

his horses. 
Philadelphia at Minnesota. 8:35p.m. Chicago at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. 

SOCCER 
Hartford at Winnipeg, 8:35p.m.

National Profeaalonal Soccer league 
Pittsburgh at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 

NEW YORK KICK-Announced Joe O'Hara has purchased the team. Named Rick Schweizer Wedneaday'a Gameacoach. 
Montreal at Detroit, 7:35 p.m Washington al N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. 

COLLEGE 
New Jersey at Toronto, 7:35p.m.

SYRACUSE-Named Kevin Rogers assistant Edmonton at Calgary, 9:35p.m.
football coach. 
Pittsburgh at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 

WEST VIRGINIA-Named Dan Simrell quarterbacks and receivers coach. 
GF 240 217 274 224 204 187  GA 200 203 239 210 222 238  Home 19·9-5 17-12-5 21-11-1 19-8-7 16-11-3 12·16-5  Away 13-13-5 14-15-2 11-16-3 8·18-4 12-21-1 9-19-3  Div 12-9-4 11-12-6 15-12·1 11-13-5 15-12·2 9-15-4  
238 218 189 220 183  215 200 208 220 290  21-7-3 19-11-3 16-13-3 11-11-10 6-18-7  15-13-5 13-13-5 12-15-4 12-14-5 6-23-4  15·7-3 12-10.4 9-11-4 7-10-7 6-11-6  
GF 253 214 229 203 188  GA 201 167 247 219 267  Home 20-6-5 21-7-3 22-11-0 13-14-5 11-20-2  Away 18-12-2 17-13-3 5-20.8 8-18-6 6-20.5  Div 14·8-2 15-6-3 12·12-3 7-13-4 7-16-2  
266 265 219 220 198  202 202 212 234 253  19·8-4 19-7-2 18-11·2 14·15-5 13-14-4  17-12·3 15-14-5 12-18-2 8-18-6 9-22-3  13·7-4 12-6-3 10.11·2 8-8-6 7-18-1  
\'  

MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS . 
AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 
The Top Twenty Five teams In the Associated Press 1990-91 college basketball poD, with first-place votes In parentheses, records through Feb. 24 total points based on 25 points lor a first place vote How the Associated Press· Top 25 women's through one point for a 25th place vote and last week's rankings: teams fared Monday: 
1. Virginia (26-1) did not play. 
Record Pta 
Pva

2. Penn State (24-1) did not play. 1. UNLV (63) 
25-0 1,575 1
3. Georgia (25-2) beat South Alabama 125-64. 2. Ohio St. 
24-1 1,503 2
4. Tennessee (23-4) did not play. 3.Arkansas 
27-2 1,455 3
5. Auburn (23-4) did not play. 4. North Carolina 
21-4 1,346 6
6. Purdue (23-2) did not play. 5. Indiana 
23-4 
1.2n 4

7. North Carolina State (22·5) did not play. 6. Syracuse 
24-4 1,269 5
8. Arkansas (23-3) did not play. 7. Arizona 
22-5 1,198 9
9. Washington (20-3) did not play. 8. Duke 
23-6 1,108 7
10. Stanford (21-4) did not play. 9. Utah 
25-2 1,042 10
11. Western Kentucky (23-2) did nOI play. 10. Kansas 
20-5 1,012 8
12. 
LSU (20-6) did not play. 11. New Mexico St. 


21·3 822 15
13. 
Connecticut (23-4) beat P~sburgh 79-55. 12. Oklahoma St. 20-5 n2 16

14. 
Texas (17-7) did not play. 13. Kentucky 2(Hl 

767 12

15. UNLV (22·5) did not play. 14. Southern Miss. 
20-4 708 11
16. Providence (23-4) beat Villanova 74-69. 15. Nebraska 
23-5 664 14
17. 
Rutgers (22-4) beat St. Joseph's 73-51. 16.UCLA 


20-7 637 17
18. 
Mississippi (19-7) did not play. 17. St. John's 19-6 

630 18

19. Stephen F. Austin (22·3) did not play. 18. LSU 
19-7 589 19
20. Northwestern (17·7) did not play. 19. E. Tennessee St. 
24-4 472 13
21. Iowa (17·7) beat Louisiana Tech n-57. 20. Seton Hall 
18-7 358 24
22. 
Notre Dame (20-5) did not play. 21. Princeton 


20-2 317 23
23. 
Long Beach State (17-7) at Pacific. 22. Pittsburgh 19-9 

165 22

24. George Washington (21-4) did not play. 23. Mississippi St. 18-7 
158 21

25. Lamar (25-2) did not play. 24. Alabama 
17-8 129 25. Virginia 19-9 
105 20

NBA LEADERS 
Other receiving votes: N. Carolina St. 84, Texas 64, Georgetown 48, Georgia Tech 48, Illinois 43, N. Illinois 16, New Orleans 14, New Mexico 13, Fordham 10, Michigan St. 6, Furman 5, Iowa 5, Ball St. 4, Field Goal Percentage 
DePaul3, Arkansas St. 2, Brigham Young 2, Cincinnati 2, E. Michigan 2, Pepperdine 2, Wake Forest 
FG FGA Pet 

2, Houston 1, Southern Cal 1. 
Williams, Port 243 395 .615 Gamble, Bos. 361 594 .608 Parish, Bos. 305 513 .595 ·l J Dlvac, LAL 236 406 .581 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE  
AUantlc Divialon  
w l  Pet  
Boston 40 14  .741  
Ph lladelph ia 30 24  .556  
New York 24 31  .436  
Washington 22 33  .400  
New Jersey 17 37  .315  
Miami 16 38  .296  
Central Divlaion  
Chicago 39 14  .736  
Detroit 37 19  .661  
Milwaukee 34 21  .618  
Atlanta 31 24 Indiana 25 28  .564An  
Cleveland 19 36  .345  
Charlotte 16 37  .302  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
Mldweat Dlvlalon  
w l  Pet  
San Antonio 34 17  .667  
Utah 35 18  .660  
Houston 31 23  .574  
Dallas 20 32  .385  
Minnesota 17 36  .321  
Orlando 17 36  .321  
Denver 15 38  .283  
Pacific Diviaion  
Portland 44 11  .800  
LA Lakers 40 15  .727  
Phoenix 35 18  .660  
Golden State 29 24  .547  
Seattle 25 28  .472  
LA Clippers 18 35  .340  
Sacramento 15 38  .283  
Monday'a Gamea  
Late Game Not Included  
Atlanta 96, Sacramento 88  
Philadelphia 92, LA Lakers 90  
Charlotte at Phoenix, (n)  
Tueaday'a Gamea  
Detroit at Cleveland. 7:30p.m.  
Milwaukee at Miami, 7:30p.m.  
Indiana at New Jersey, 7:30p.m.  

Washington at New York, 7:30p.m. Dallas at MinnesOia, 8 p.m. Boston at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. Portland at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Houston at Denver, 9 p.m. LA Clippers at Seattle, 10 p.m. Orlando at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
NBA LEADERS 

GB 10 16 1/2 18 1/2 23 24 31/2 6 9 14 21 23  l10 8-2 6-4 4-6 2-8 3-7 5-5 9·1 4·6 7-3 7-3 7-3 4-6 2-8  Streak Lost 1 Won5 Won2 Lost 3 Lost 2 Lost2 Won9 Lost 2 Won 1 Won3 Won6 Lost 2 Lost 1  Home 24-4 19-7 11-17 15-10 12-15 11-17 23-3 23-5 24-4 22~ 18-8 13-16 12-16  Away 16-10 11-17 13-14 7-23 5-22 5-21 16-11 14-14 10.17 9-18 1·20 6-20 4-21  Conf 24-10 21-12 15-19 14-20 10.22 9-26 25-7 25-10 22·12 17-18 16-17 12-22 10.25  
GB 5 15 18 1/2 181/2 20 4 8 14 18 25 28  l10 4·6 7-3 8-2 5-5 2·8 6-4 2·8 7-3 6·4 7-3 4-6 5-5 3-7 3-7  Streak Won 1 Lost1 Won2 Lost 3 Lost 3 Won2 Lost1 Lost 1 Lost 1 Won 1 Lost 2 Won 1 Won2 Lost6  Home 2(Hl 24-4 20-8 13-13 12·14 14-14 12-14 28-3 22-5 20-4 18-7 16-8 14-12 14-11  Away 14·11 11-14 11-15 7-19 5-22 3-22 3-24 16-8 18-10 15-14 11-17 9-20 4-23 1-27  Coni 23-12 25-10 18-16 12-21 12-27 13-22 7-26 27-9 25-9 23-12 18-17 12-17 14-19 10.22  l 'i  

The NBA Individual scoring, field goal percentage, rebounding and assist leaders through Feb. 24: 
Scoring  
G  
Jordan, Chi.  53  
Barkley, PhA.  46  
King. Wash.  55  
K.Malone, Utah  53  
WUklns, Atl.  53  
Ewing, N.Y.  54  
Mullin,G.S.  53  
Robinson, S.A.  51  
Adams, Den.  38  
Richmond, G.S.  48  
Hardaway, G.S.  53  
Miller, Ind.  53  
Worthy, LAL  51  
Pierce, Sea.  50  
K.Johnson, Phoe.  53  
Hawkins, Phil.  52  
Drexler, Port.  55  
Daugherty, Clev.  55  
Charrbers, Phoe.  50  
Blackman, Dall.  52  
Rebounding  
G  
Robinson, S.A.  51  
K.Maione, Utah  53  
Oakley, N.Y.  55  
Rodman, Det.  56  
Ewing, N.Y.  54  
Parish, Bos.  53  
Daugherty, Clev.  55  
Thorpe, Hou.  54  
Coleman. N.J.  48  
Barl<ley, Phil.  46  


FG  FT  Pta  Avg  
637  347  1638  30.9  
480  366  1355  29.5  
631  340  1609  29.3  
522  441  1486  28.0  
511  322  1407  26.5  
551  307  1409  26.1  
515  313  13n  26.0  
474  358  1307  25.6  
311  260  966  25.4  
456  263  1206  25.1  
492  205  1240  23.4  
3n  368  1163  22.3  
479  148  1122  22.0  
385  288  1098  22.0  
402  355  1163  21.9  
370  325  1t36  21.8  
431  289  1191  21.7  
437  306  1180  21.5  
385  251  1038  20.8  
424  202  1079  20.8  
Off  Del  Tot  Avg  
221  444  665  13.0  
168  479  647  12.2  
214  452  666  12.1  
234  433  667  11.9  
135  462  597  11.1  
168  401  569  10.7  
125  459  584  10.6  
193  376  569  10.5  
175  325  500  10.4  
197  279  476  10.3  


Barldey, Ph~. 480 839 .572 
McHale, Bos. 3711 675 .561 Paxson, Chi. 198 357 .555 Robinson, S.A. 474 863 .549 Thorpe, Hou. 3n 687 .549 Grant, Chi. 267 488 .547 
The Centel-for Civil 8 Human Rights 
Aulata G No. Avg. Stockton. Utah 53 755 14.2 
and 
Johnson, LAL 52 695 13.4 Adams, Den. 38 436 11.5 K.Johnson, Phoe. 53 522 9.8 Richardson, Minn. 53 520 9.8 
The Notre Dame Law Review~ 
Hardaway, G.S. 53 511 9.6 Grant, LAC 53 498 9.4 Bogues, Char. 52 487 9.4 Thomas, Det. 39 357 92 Strickland, S.A. 39 336 8.6 
prese":t
BIG TEN STANDINGS 
A Sytnposiurn on
w l Pet. w l Pel 

Ohio State 14 1 .933 24 1 .960
.,.. 
Indiana 11 3 .769 23 4 .846 Illinois 9 5 .643 19 8 .704 Michigan St 9 5 .643 16 8 .667 Iowa 7 8 .467 18 9 .667 Wisconsin 7 7 .462 13 11 .545 
The Rights of 
Michigan 6 8 .429 13 12 .542 Purdue 5 9 .357 13 1 1 .542 Minnesota 3 10 .231 10 13 .435 N'western 0 14 .000 5 19 .217 
Ethnic Minorities 
Friday, March 1 from 9 -5:00 p.m.
Home Alone iPG) 4:30-7:15-9:30 Sleeping with the Enemy (R) 

Saturday, March 2 from 9:30 -4:00 p.m.
4:45-7:30-9:45 
While Fang (PG) 

La-w-School Court Rootn, Rootn 220 
4:45-7:00-9:30 
Silence ol the l.IJrb (R) 
4:30-7:15-i:45 
LA. Slory (PG-13) 
5:00-7:30-9:45 

.­
Tuesday, February 26, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Student Union Board Presents: 
A Lecture 

by Joseph Perkins 
• Former White House domestic policy analysis ··Former Wall Street Journal eclitorialist 
"Race Relations in the 1990's" 
Tuesday, February 26, 1991 7:30p.m. Cushing Auditorium 
' 
I I 
I 

I -I -l I 
-



BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­Their Big Ten hopes virtually dead, No. 5 Indiana is looking to Calbert Cheaney as their meal ticket to a high seed in the NCAA tournament. 
Coach Bob Knight's club needs a miracle to catch Big Ten leader Ohio State. The No. 2 Buckeyes would need to lose 
their remaining three games
I and Indiana would have to win its remaining four to give the
\ 
Hoosiers the conference titleI and the automatic tournament berth it carries. 
The Hoosiers (23-4) resume their conference schedule by playing at Michigan State on Thursday, hoping to improve on a 11-3 Big Ten mark. 
"Like ground zero," Knight said Sunday when asked about the possibility of earning the Big Ten title. 
I 
"We know we've got to win these next four games, gain 
some momentum heading into 
( the tournament," said Cheaney, who leads Indiana in scoring with a 22-point average after scoring 30 in Sunday's 112-79 romp over Michigan. 
"We've got to work on our mental aspect of the game. We've got to go out and decide we're going to play the whole 40 minutes. Anything less is a big problem for us," said the 6­foot-6 Cheaney, who led Indiana 
~ 
Page 18 The Observer 
Cheaney leading 5th-ranked IU 
23-4 Hoosiers still have shot at Big Ten Championship 

career -becoming the fifth player in Indiana history to score 1,000 points by his sophomore season. 
Cheaney has reached double figures in 40 consecutive games and only failed to reach that mark twice in his career. 
Knight's regimented offense demands production to achieve those figures and Cheaney is shooting 61 percent from the field, including a 45.5 percent performance from 3-point range. 
But he's far from satisfied. 

"I need to rebound more," he said. "I also want to improve my defense." 
"He's so tremendous offen­sively," said team.mate Chris Reynolds. "He gets a mental picture in his mind, the way he wants to play, the way he should play to help us out. I think once Calbert starts hitting his first couple of shots, the only person that can stop him is himself." 
"Calbert is probably one of our best offensive players," echoed Indiana guard Jamal Meeks. "He's a big asset." 
"Calbert's our offense," said Eric Anderson. "Without him doing the things he does our of­fense drops down. He's the main threat in our offense ... He opens up our offense for the rest of the team. If you don't stop Calbert you've got no chance of beating us." 
Cheaney, one of two Hoosiers to start every game in a season when Knight has used 14 dif­ferent starting lineups, gives the defense a variety of problems. 
"He can drive. He can shoot from outside. He doesn't have any deficiencies offensively. He just needs to pick up his defen­sive game," Reynolds said. "When he's in there playing well, we're playing well. There is just a direct correlation." 
That was demonstrated last week when Cheaney, shooting 85 percent from the line for the season, missed six free throws in an 80-79 overtime loss to Iowa. 
"You wouldn't expect him to miss six free throws. It just happened," Reynolds said. 
The problem became conta­gious with Indiana shooting just 56 percent against Iowa (19 of 34). The Hoosiers missed six straight in the final four minutes of regulation, including four by Cheaney. 
Sunday, despite scoring a sea­son-high 112 points, Indiana made only 29 of 43 fre.e throws. 
"It's like a mist above us and everybody is being affected by it. It seems like everyone is having a problem. I think it's just a matter of practice, prac­tice makes perfect and when practice is over we just need to stick around and shoot some free throws," Reynolds said. 
Tuesday, February 26, 1991 

in scoring as a freshman with a 17.1 average and has 1,090 points in his 56-game college 


Iowa's Earl pleads innocent to charge 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -Acie Earl, Iowa's leading scorer and reboun.der, pleaded innocent Monday to a charge of simple assault filed by a 17-year-old girl who has said she wants the charge dropped. 
Randy Larson, Earl's attorney, entered the plea during a two­minute hearing in Johnson County District Court. Earl made no comment other than to confirm that his name was spelled correctly in court pa­pers. 
Earl, a 6-foot-10 sophomore from Moline, Ill., was charged late Sunday morning after an altercation with the girl, de­scribed as a "longtime friend," in the parking lot of his resi­dence, Larson said. Earl is free on his own recognizance. 
Judge John R. Sladek did not set a trial date. Larson said any trial probably would be in late April. A conviction on the charge carries a maximum penalty of 30 days in jail and a $100 fine. 
Larson said the girl, who was not identified because she is a juvenile, already has called the county attorney's office and asked that charges be dropped. 
"There was no injury in­volved," Larson said. "The lady says there was no intent to in­jure her, no intent to commit an assault." 
In the complaint she filed with police, the girl said Earl chased her after they got into an ar­gument and grabbed her by the neck. 
County Attorney J. Patrick White said he spoke with the girl and her mother, who live in Moline, Ill. He refused to say if he was asked to drop charges. 
White said he would know by the end of the week whether to pursue the case. 
Police Capt. Patrick Harney said the girl, her mother and a girlfriend appeared at the po­lice station soon after Earl was charged and asked that charges be dropped. 
"But once the process starts, you can't unarrest anyone," Harney said. "Had they come down here and discussed it, we 
"'A 
Ms ET 
Ru I D 
ci 
AE .. Ns 

Meet the Major Tues. Feb. Z6  ""''Il  
2I8 O'Shag  
7·8 PDI  ....  

probably could have avoided all this." 
Iowa coach Tom Davis told reporters who waited for him at courtside prior to the Hawkeyes' practice that he de­cided to withhold Earl from Monday's workout. 
"Obviously Acie had a very private problem," the coach said. "He's trying to deal with it as best he can and keep me informed." 
Davis wasn't sure what steps he would take with Earl, who has had brushes with the law three times in the past 16 months. 
"We'll have to see what we've got," he said. 
In January 1990, Earl was charged with possession of al­cohol while under age. Davis then suspended Earl for the Hawkeyes' first six Big Ten games. 
Earl also was arrested Oct. 15, 1989, the day basketball practice started, for damaging property in an alcohol-related incident at Western Illinois University in Macomb. 
File Photo· Calbert Cheaney, who has 40 consecutive games of scoring in double figures, is averaging 22 points per game for the Hoosiers. 
Oakland paying hefty price for pennant success 
PHOENIX (AP) -The Oakland Athletics will lose up to $5 million this year. 
Call it the price of success. 
"We will be $2 to $5 million in the red this year," Oakland general manager Sandy Alderson said. "Why do we do it? Because we want to win four (American League pen­nants) in a row." 
Alderson told the Oakland Tribune that his figure does not include the $10 million the A's will be forced to pay for the latest collusion ruling against baseball owners. 
"Forget collusion," Alderson said. ''I'm talking operating cost." 
The A's will lose money in 1991 because of a payroll that will top $36 million, compared to $22 million in 1990, and $10.7 million in 1988, and the club. The A's were profitable in each of the last two seasons. 
Turning a profit this season has become almost impossible. The A's have 13 players with salaries exceeding $1 million apiece, including five Jose Canseco, 1990 MVP Rickey Henderson, 1990 Cy Young Award winner Bob Welch, Dave Stewart and Dennis Eckersley -who will be paid more than $3 million. 

Is there any chance? 
"Not with the team we have put together at·this moment," Alderson said. "Maybe if we drew 3.2 or 3.3 million in at­tendance. But our season ticket sales have not gone up dramatically, so that's probably not a possibility.... 
"If we repeat last year's at­tendance, the figure will be a lot closer to the $2 million than the $5 million." 
The A's, who drew a fran­chise-record 2.9 million fans last year, fell into their predicament after signing several players to lucrative contracts since the end of last season, but not free agents. 
"The guys we've signed to big contracts are guys we wanted to keep in the organization, not guys from outside the organization," Alderson said. 
Welch signed a four-year contract worth nearly $14 million and new-look free agent outfielder Dave Henderson received an $8 million deal. Mark McGwire and Walt Weiss each received substantial raises. 

for all men's and women's ND Basketball games 
1 MEAL FULL PRICE 
COMPARABLE MEAL HALF PRICE !
6i) 
"Since ;81".,

PASTA DISHES LASAGNA FETTUCINE AlFREDO MANICOTTI 
VEALkFilJ.'~ 
CHIC EN CACCIATORE CC'CKTAILS 
~ ..~~!~l~ 

BEER • WINE Dinner 4PM·11PM R•"storonte .,BANQUET OPEN SUN & Closed Mon 
ROOM 

Please present ~h~sg. 232•4244 
coupon when ordering South Of Notrp Gimes' Golden Dome 
1412 South a.nd Av•nue 

Pre-game Special 
... 

·Tuesday, February· 26; 1991 The Observer Page 19 
Viola, Magrane, Gubicza start spring with injuries 
(AP) -The big news from several spring training camps on Monday came out of the doctor's office. 
Frank Viola's elbow is acting up, Joe Magrane returned to St. Louis for an elbow examination and Mark Gubicza said he may not be ready for the start of the season. 
An examination of Viola's pitching elbow on Monday re­vealed signs of small bone spurs, but the New York Mets said the left-hander would con­tinue his workouts as sched­uled. 
Anti-inflammatory medication was prescribed for Viola, who underwent a magnetic reso­nance image examination. The MRI detected no loose bodies and the team said he would work out on Tuesday at Port St. Lucie, Fla. 
"If we felt that a pitcher was seriously hurt, we wouldn't let him throw tomorrow (Tuesday)," Mets vice president AI Harazin said. 
Viola (20-12 in 1990) reported soreness after throwing on Friday, which was unusual for him. "The only thing that con­cerned me is that I've never had problems at all, especially this early," he said. 
Viola, entering the final season of a three-year $7.9 million contract, is seeking an exten­sion of the agreement that will put over $4 million a year. 
"In contract talks, you don't want to deal with damage goods," Viola said. "The Mets thought it would be good to get everything in the open. The early MRI makes the organiza­tion feel better and makes me feel better." 
Magrane, also a left-hander, was in St. Louis on Monday to have his sore elbow examined by Dr. Stan London. 
"We should know something within 48 hours or so," Cardinals spokesman Brian Bartow said. 
General Manager Dal Maxvill said earlier that he hoped Magrane's absence from camp would be brief. 
"You're always concerned when one of your big people is hurt," Maxvill said. "We've had some bad luck in past springs. Joe has been healthy through his career, so hopefully this is nothing serious. But until (the doctor) has a chance to look at him, we'll have our fingers crossed." 
Magrane, 26, had experienced some tightness in the elbow. Trainer Gene Gieselmann called 
the condition  an "irritation"  
that  was  not  responding to  
treatment.  

Gubicza, coming back from shoulder surgery, has modified his prediction that he'll be ready for Kansas City by open­ing day. ''I'll be ready, but I don't know 
what for," he said after a weekend workout at the team's spring training camp in Haines City, Fla. "If it's going north with the club, that's fine. If it's staying down here for extended spring training, that's fine. But I know I'll be ready to pitch at some level." 
Gubicza, 28, underwent arthroscopic surgery on his right shoulder last Aug. 2 and didn't pick up a baseball for four months. He began throw­ing in early December and now is easing his way back into pitching shape. 
In other news from spring trainging camps on Monday: 
-Danny Darwin, who missed the first two Boston workouts as he honored a Little League commitment in Houston, threw from the bullpen mound for about 10 minutes. Darwin signed as a free agent with the Red Sox in December for $11.8 million over four years. 
"He was impressive," manager Joe :vtorgan said. "He must have thrown 40 straight strikes, keeping the ball down both on the inside and down and out. That's what pitching is all about." 
-The Texas Rangers opened spring training camp on Monday with 24 pitchers re­porting, but one of them was absent -Nolan Ryan. In keep­ing with his strict workouts program, Ryan, 44, who led the American League in strikeouts, won his 300th game and pitched his sixth no-hitter last year, won't arrive from Alvin, Texas, until March 1. 
-The Mets said they would give minor league tryouts this week to former major league pitchers Neil Allen and Mike Jones. Allen, a one-time Met, was in the Cincinnati organiza­tion last season and Jones formerly pitched for Kansas City. 
The Center for Civil 8 Hu1nan Rights and The Notre Dame Law Revie~ 
present 
A Symposium on 
The Rights of Ethnic Minorities 
Friday, March 1 from 9 -5:00 p.m. Saturday, March 2 from 9:30 -4:00 p.m. 
Law School Court Room, Room220 

r 
" 

~Ihe-Obsenu~
--··------­
is currently accepting applications for the paid position of 

Accent Copy Editor 
Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the If interested, please submit a one-page personal 
INFORMATION DESK 
statement to John O'Brien at
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
The Observer by 5 p.m., Thursday, Feb. 28 
*Deadline for applications is March 29* 
or call John at 239-5303 . 
... '-~ 

I Page 20 The Observer Tuesday, February 26, 1991
} 
' 
i' Chrysler nixes Indy 500 pace car plans
1 
l Mitsubishi's Dodge Stealth takes backseat to Viper 
l 
HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. (AP} near to bring attention to the Chrysler is supplying the 
-Chrysler Corp., wary of pres­fact that we had an all­Speedway with 160 Dodge sure from the United Auto Japanese built car pacing the brand cars and trucks for use, Workers union and war-driven race. among other things, as fire
I 
l 
patriotism, dumped plans to of­"There was a lot of discussion trucks and for personal use of 
fer a Japanese-made vehicle as about some activities on race race officials during May. the Indianapolis 500 pace car, day." The Viper will be among only officials said Monday. Damoose said another part of a handful of pace cars that 
the decision to change the pace have not required performance In the place of the Dodge car stemmed from patriotism or safety changes to pace the Stealth, made by Mitsubishi stirred by the Gulf War. race. The Viper will be Motors Corp., the company will "In reaction to that," he said, equipped with a V-1 0, 400­supply the premier American "we want to do whatever we horsepower engine and safety automobile race with a home­can to support this kind of belts across both shoulders and 
I 
grown Dodge Viper, a sports car emotion and pride, not capital­the lap. that doesn't exist yet. ize on it, not exploit it by any Tapping of Viper as the pace 
"The selection of Stealth didn't means, but at least tie into it car will cause some problems. 
meet universal approval," said and build that pride among the Only nine of the cars exist now, John Damoose, Chrysler's spectators of this race on and each is dedicated to spe­marketing vice president. Memorial Day." cific testing. _ ··some employees beginning "We must build a special vehi­
with the UAW members in the The Stealth and its twin, the cle on top of what we've al­state of Indiana told us that Mitsubishi 3000GT, are made in ready committed," said Roy they wanted a domestically Japan. Chrysler helped with the Sjoberg, manager of the Viper built car to pace the world's design and engineering on the development team. most-famous race that happens project. to be in their own back yard." The Viper is to go into pro­
Nearly immediately after last duction later this year in September's announcement of Detroit. Between 200 and 500 the Stealth as the pace car for of the cars will be built. the Memorial Day race, the Indianapolis Motor Speedway 
Tennis 
UAW protested. officials are bending some of "We had a letter-writing cam­their rules to allow the Viper to continued from page 24 
and since she sat out that long, They're (LSU} a strong team,
paign," said Dick Vannatta, pace the race. Usually, the 
inconsistent, but I was just glad 
we have to be careful," said and when everyone has to movepresident of UAW Local 662 in Speedway requires. three ver­
to be out there and play a 
Louderback. up two positions, it makes a bigAnderson, Ind. "We were in the sions of the pace car. This time, 
match." 
On Sunday, the Irish played differenc.e," said Louderback.
process of planning some other there will be just one. 
"Christy won against Iowa 
both LSU and Minnesota. "That's why it was such a good
programs as the race drew In addition to the Viper, 
and Minnesota, and lost to LSU 
\1 Against the Tigers, Melissa win for Melissa. She just stayed
but was way down in the
\ Dame pulled off its first-ever Harris chalked up a 6-1, 6-0 on top of LSU's girl the whole
match," said Louderback. "She
win against a Big 8 team. Tom first singles victory, and Ann match."
l Baseball 
was tired, but came back after
Price got the win for the Irish, Bradshaw-Lisa Tholen won Harris, along with the rest of 
l •• being down a set and 5-2 in the 
pitching two innings of middle their first-doubles match 6-2, 2-the singles lineup, was playing
continued from page 24 
I second to force a tiebreaker,
relief. 6, 7-6 (9-7} for the Irish points. in a different position due to
called back to third. and then lost in the tiebreaker.
!,:
!I Jacobs opened the scoring LSU had received votes in the Barton's absence. 
Ohio State relief pitcher Tim She hasn't played more than a
for the Irish in the first, last top 25 poll, so the match
I j Smith retired the· final three half-hour a day for the last six 
I'· slamming a two-run homer was expected to be tough. "It's real difficult to change
batters, and the game was de­weeks, so she played well for
after Craig Counsell walked. In "Everyone was playing very from second to first," said
cided in the 11th when Keith having sat out that long. We
the third, designated hitter high because Tracy was out. Harris.
Clodnick singled off Chad don't want her to get injured,
Adam Maisano hit a solo home

If: Hartvigson, scoring Doug 
run, and in the fourth Maisano '. . . . . 
Wallenburg, making it 12-11. 
came back again with a three­"Obviously, we've got to go

: l run ground-rule double,
pitch-by-pitch, inning-by-inning 
.; \ making the score 7-0. ·i. ..: .
.Research saves lives~ '. :· 

and avoid the snowballing ef­
I! With the score 8-5 in the 
\ fect on defense," said Murphy.
' 
sixth, Tony Livorsi came in and 

"We can't let a pitcher get in a 
pitched three and one-third in­

\ j 
rhythm, and we learned that 
nings of scoreless relief for the 

I every team is going to throw 
save. Livorsi and Danapilis

their number-one pitcher
\ were the two players to make 

against us. It's a great compli­
the All-Tournament team. 

I 
ment." 
Against Dartmouth, sopho­
Ohio State paid the Irish 
more Chris Michalak relieved

their highest compliment when 
~ David Sinnes in the fourth,
{ J • . 
they sent their ace, Scott 
pitched five scoreless innings

Klingenbeck, against them in 
and got the win for the Irish. 

the two teams' first meeting. 
Alan Walania pitched the final

Klingenbeck, the Detroit Tigers' 
two-thirds of the ninth for the 

top draft choice in 1989 and Big 
save.

Ten freshman of the year last 
Danapilis opened the scoring 

year, pitched a complete game 
for Notre Dame in the fifth, 

en route to the 6-1 victory. 
singling home Mike Coss and 

Sophomore Alan Walania 
Matt Haas. In the eighth, Dan

pitched six innings for the Irish 
Bautch scored on a wild pitch,

and took the loss. 
and one batter later Danapilis

l Against Nebraska, Notre 
i scored on a passed ball. 
ll 
1 

. . . 
. . 
:. .... . 
··.. . 

$$$ MONEY $$$ 

We'd like to give you a break with our Special Spring Break Loan! 
• Only 11.99% APR, Axed 
• $500 Maximum 
• Deferred Payments· You'll have all summer 
• to repay (until Aug. 1, 1991) 
• Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 
~ NOTREDAME ~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Separate from th'e 



Tuesday, February 26, 1991 
The Observer Page·21 
Lend I seeking top ranking after Volvo Indoor win 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) -Ivan Lendl has sent out the warning signal that he is back on his game and setting his sights on the world's No. 1 ranking after disposing of Michael Stich 7-5, 6-3 in the championship match of the $750,000 Volvo Indoor. 
''I would like to think that I can get back to No. 1 by the end of the year. Hopefully, I can do it earlier," Lend I said after disposing of Michael Stich 7-5, 6-3 to win the Volvo Indoor tennis tournament Sunday. 
Lendl, the top seed at Memphis a week after winning at Philadelphia, is currently ranked No. 3 by the ATP Tour. He completed the Memphis tournament with a total of 29 aces in five matches and won his final three matches in straight sets. The first part of the tournament was a bit of a struggle. 
He saved his best effort for Stich, posting five aces and winning every point (33 of 33) when he placed his first serve in play. 
"I'm very pleased. I hit the ball nice and clean. I didn't give him any free points and I made a lot of big shots when I needed them," Lendl said. 
Lendl, who defeated Stich in the quarterfinals last week in Philadelphia and is 4-0 lifetime against the German, said he played much better this week than in Philadelphia. 
"I played better, but if you win -that's what counts," Lendl said after picking up his 90th career tournament title. 
Lendl controlled Stich with an assortment of precision ground strokes and called upon a pow­erful serve when needed, defeating Stich in 90 minutes and picking up a $99,000 winner's check. 
Stich, seeded seventh and ranked 25th, had not lost his serve in four previous matches. The defending champion earned $53,000 for his second­place finish. 
Although seemingly unable to find acceptable shots that would allow him to move to the net, Stich was able to stay with Lendl through the first 11 games. 
Stich, who saved two break points in the fourth game, suf­fered his first break of service in Game 12. 
Lendl reached set point when Stich was unable to return a backhand passing shot from the baseline, then broke Stich's serve and took the first set when the German mis-hit a baseline backhand as he at-
Hall veterans committee considers 30 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -Nellie Fox, Leo Durocher and Phil Rizzuto are likely to be among the 30 nominees considered for election to baseball's Hall of Fame Tuesday when the veter­ans committee meets. 
A three-man screening panel will present the names of 15 former major leaguers as well as 15 ex-umpires, executives and stars from the Negro Leagues umpires to the so­called "old-timers" panel that votes on candidates bypassed for election by the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
The 18-man veterans commit­tee includes Hall of Fame mem­bers Billy Herman, Ted Williams, Roy Campanella, Stan Musial, AI Lopez and Monte Irvin. Others on the panel are Charles Segar, Edgar Murizel, Buck O'Neil, Bob Broeg, Birdie Tebbetts, Gabe Paul, Joe L. Brown, Shirley Povich, Allen Lewis, Buzzie Bavasi, Ernie Harwell and Jack Brickhouse. 
Bill Guilfoile, associate direc­tor of the Hall of Fame, said the screening committee of Segar, O'Neil and Lopez will present the list of nominees to the full committee Tuesday morning. A year ago, the committee met for several hours but did not elect anyone. 
Among the candidates receiv­ing strong consideration, but not receiving the necessary three-fourths votes of commit­tee members, in the past are Fox, Rizzuto, Durocher and turn-of-the-century pitcher Vic Willis. 
The veterans committee con­siders former major leaguers 
Real Estate AnalystProgram 
CHOOSE YOUR TRACK TO AN MBA! 
Want some rock-solid commercial real estate experience? Then consider one of two great opportunities with THE PRUDENTIAL, the nation's largest real estate investor. 
We're looking for energetic, ambitious BAs and BSs for the following Real Estate Analyst positions: 
• 
Track A-individuals seeking two years of work expenence before applying to top business schools in 1993; and, 

• 
Track B -individuals planning a full-time career while pursuing their MBA on an evening/part-time basis. 


To qualify, you need a B + or better undergraduate GPA and a strong mathematical aptitude. An intensiv~ training program will help prepare you for real estate modeling and financial evaluation assignments. 
Both programs provide outstanding on-the-job training, experience, and exposure to real estate markets and top investment professionals. The Prudential offers attractive starting salaries with comprehensive benefits. 
To apply, send your resume and a copy of your college transcript, by March 1, 1991 to: THE PRUDENTIAL REALTY GROUP Chicago Realty Group Office Prudential Plaza Suite 1300-13th Floor Chicago, IL 60601 ATTN: TRACK A OR TRACK 8 (PLEASE SPECIFY) 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
The Prudential Realty Group ~ 
ThePrudent1al 'eP 
who have been off the baseball writers' ballot for at least three years. The group also is em­powered to elect managers, ex­ecutives, umpires and former Negro League stars. 
In the past, the committee has been allowed to consider as many candidates as it saw fit although it was restricted to electing just two new Hall of Famers in any year. 
Under new rules approved for this year, the committee can elect a maximum of one new member from the group of former major leaguers nomi­nated by the screening panel. 
If also can pick one from the 15 executives, umpires and Negro League players under consider­
ation. 

tempted to return a strong Lendl forehand. 
"I missed two easy balls," Stich said. "I just lost my con­centration." 
Lendl broke through again in the second game of the second set. 
Stich fell behind 0-40 and saved three break points, but opened the door for Lendl again when he guided a forehand chip shot long. Lendl then broke service and went up 2-0 in the set when Stich sailed an easy baseline forehand long. 
Lendl saved three break points in the set's seventh game and finally held serve with a service winner. 
"I had him at love-40 and I couldn't break him," Stich re­called. "Usually, two or three points decide a match and you have to take advantage of every chance you have. That's why he 
World 
continued from page 20 this year. Keith Tower has ma­tured into a strong rebounder and has proven that he can score as well when necessary. Daimon Sweet has blossomed into a big-time college scorer; he is virtually automatic when he gets the ball with his feet set within 15 feet of the basket. Kevin Ellery has had some suc­cess both inside and outside for the Irish. But the frustration has been obvious, too. It was written all over Bennett's face in Notre Dame's loss to Creighton. It shows every time Phelps refers to the losses of Monty Williams to a career-ending heart ailment and LaPhonso Ellis to academic ineligibility. "People talk about the dream season we could have had," 
(Lendl) has been able to do what he has the last 5-l0 years. That's the difference." 
With the set at S-3, Lendl made quick work of Stich in the deciding game. 
Two service winners and a sizzling forehand passing shot gave Lendl two match points. He needed only the first as Stich found himself unable to return Lendl's first serve. 
Lendl, who will compete in Rotterdam, Holland, next, said he felt the key to the match was coming back to break Stich quickly in the second set. 
"He's been serving so well. I had just won the first set and I didn't want to give him any points," Lendl said. "He had a big mental letdown after the first set and he made some errors. I try to guard against that myself. 
Phelps says. "It would have been different if we had Monty and Phonz. If somebody missed a box-out, I could sit him down for a few minutes. But now, who do you want me to sub?" 
Phelps's thinly veiled refer­ence to his bench highlights the lack of depth which has been the greatest problem for the Irish this year. With Ellis gone, Notre Dame has only five play­ers with collegiate experience prior to this season. Of the four freshmen on the team only Brooks Boyer has regularly shown flashes of potential, but even he is not ready to start yet in a big-time program. 
Despite all of that, if they could have gotten just a couple of shots to fall when they needed them, the Irish would still have a chance at this point of the season. But they just couldn't get it together in the clutch, and that is the most difficult thing of all. 
College team baby-sits for bills 
MANSFIELD, Pa. (AP) ­Roger Clemens will make $21.5 million to throw strikes over the next four years, but the Mansfield University baseball team claims it will work harder to make $13,000 a year. 
It baby-sits. 
Thirteen nights a year, the team's 29 players host "Kids Nite Out" in a manner that is as deceiving as the old hidden­ball trick. 
"We try to keep them as occu­pied as possible so they don't perceive it as being baby-sat," baseball coach Harry Hillson says. "Some kids don't like the idea that they're being baby­sat." 
For $5 -payable in advance -parents leave their children at Mansfield University's Decker Gymnasium for five hours, enough time for the par­ents to enjoy a night on the town i-n Elmira, N.Y., or Williamsport, the closest cities to Mansfield, a town of about 4,000. 
"There's not a whole lot for kids to do on a Saturday night in Mansfield," Hillson said. "There's no YMCA, no spon­sored recreation halls. They get a treat coming up on campus. 
"The players also are limited in what they can do in town, and this gives them something different to do on a Saturday night,'' he added. 
In the gym and sports com­plex, students can swim or play dodge ball, volleyball, basket­ball, stickball or football, de­pending on the season. It's like a summer sports camp done very quickly, complete with the headaches. 
"You know how loud kids can 
get, right? Well, the first year 
there was no music. Now we've 
figured out to play music at a 
level where you can't hear the 
yelling," Hillson said. 
The -bulk of the money raised pays for the team's annual March swing through Florida, but it also has been used to beef up the baseball team's fa­cilities. 
Mansfield has the only field tarp in the Pennsylvania State Athletic Conference, the largest 
scoreboard, the only permanent bleachers and a separate prac­tice field dedicated solely to baseball, sports information director Steve Mcdoskey said. 

ATTENTION TUDENTS NUPS 
Off-Campus Sign-ups: February 25-Morch 1 in North and South Dining Halls during lunch February 25-Morch 1 at LaFortune information desk. On-Campus Sign-ups: Now-March 1. Look for posters in your respective dorms. 
"Chrisbnos in April1991" will toke place in the St. Cashmir-Ford Street neighborhood. This project needs your support. Questions??? Please Call: Isabel Navarrete x1314 Lora Mangan x1314 Bob Scheilbel x1739 

._.'I I ",.. • t ,.. .... ' ( ' t 
' • ' I. • ,. 

Page 22 
The Observer Tuesday, February 26, 1991 
Blues looking for revenge tonight against Blackhawks 
CHICAGO (AP) -The St. Louis Blues are clinging to a tenuous lead in the Norris Division after being manhandled by the Chicago Blackhawks. But they get a chance for re­venJ{e Tuesday in St. Louis. The Blackhawks whipped St. Louis 6-2 on Sunday to narrow the Blues' lead to one point. but they'll play again Tuesday. "We can't rest on our laurels," said Jeremy Roenick. who got two goals and an assist in the 
.
: I. 
NEW YORK (AP)-The World Boxing Council's Executive Council ruled Monday that the winner of the Mike Tyson-Razor Ruddick fight will be declared its heavyweight champion if the WBC wins its arbitration with Evander Holyfield and George Foreman. 
Holyfield, the undisputed

I. 
heavyweight champion follow­ing his victory over James "Buster" Douglas last year, opted to make his first title de­fense against Foreman instead of a WBC-mandated match against Tyson. 
Representatives for Tyson, who lost the title to Douglas last February, wanted the title declared vacant and the winner of his bout with Ruddock on March 18 to be declared cham­first period as the Blackhawks opened a 4-0 lead. 

"We've got to really play tough. They'll be waiting for us in their building." 
Steve Larmer got Chicago on the board just 2 minutes into the game on a power play. Roenick scored his first of the night at 4:19. His second of the night, a shorthanded goal, went in off the stick of Blues' de­fenseman Adam Oates at 8:17. 
Steve Thomas scored from the 

. 
WBC to decide champion 
pion. The WBC denied both re­quests, saying that to do so would violate an injunction staying such an action until the arbitration is resolved. 
A federal judge last month re­fused to consider a lawsuit over the WBC's efforts and bumped the case back to state court, where judge Amos Sanders has already ordered arbitration. Earlier this month, Sanders continued an injuction forcing the World Boxing Council to sanction the bout as a champi­onship contest. 
Saunders ruled that the WBC actions in failing to give Holyfield prior notice before ruling that the bout would not be sanctioned were improper and could not be considered by the arbitrators. 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
•The 
WVFI Sports Trivia Contest kicks off today with four games from 7-9 p.m. in Fisher Hall. Like roast beef sandwiches? Then join the audience with a chance to win prizes. 

•The 
NO Sailing Club will hold a meeting today at 6:30 p.m. in Rm. 204 O'Shag. New members welcome. Dues may be paid at the meeting. $25 for one semester. $35 for two semesters. Any questions, contact Maura Sullivan at 284-5224. 

•Attention 
crew members: meeting Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. Balance for break is due, along with $30 for ergathon. Ruppel, please come! 

•Bookstore 
Basketball: Late and faculty sign-ups today through Wednesday, February 27 from 3-6 p.m. in the SUB office on the 


: 
second floor of LaFortune. 

CULTURAL CALENDAR 
1990·1991 
SA I NT MARY'S 
'I ,. . 
I 
COLLEGE 
THt · 
Thi::. .l;.;.;..;.;.;_ '" __ 


FAMOUS PEOPLE PLAYERS 
Sl?iCIAL $5 ••RUSH" TICKETS FOR ALL SAINT MARY·s A.~O NOTRE DA..\iE STUDENTS NOW ON SALE! 

l't 

blue line at 10:33,to make it 4­0. 
"They came ready to play. We did not," St. Louis coach Brian Sutter said. 
The Blues may have wasted some goals Saturday when they pasted Boston 9-2. That loss and Chicago's victory Sunday sent the Bruins skidding to third in the overall standings with 80 points, behind Chicago's 82 and the Blues' 83. 
St. Louis has played three 
fewer games than Boston and one fewer than the Blackhawks. 

Chicago opened an 11-point lead over the Blues in the standings in January. But the Blues went have been hot so far this month while the Blackhawks have struggled. 
Coach Mike Keenan said his Blackhawks are coming back. 
"We've put it together the last three games -two wins and a tie -and we're getting that feeling back," Keenan said. 
And the success has come at the expense of some of the best the league has to offer. The two victories came over the only two teams in the NHL with better records than the Blackhawks­Boston and St. Louis. And the tie came against Minnesota, mired in fourth in the Norris, but sizzling lately. 

The Blackhawks held Brett Hull scoreless for the first time in 10 games. 
"To me, he is the best offensive player in the league this year.~ Thomas said. 

ICEBERG DEBATES 
RESOLVED: 


./ 

0~& 
s«~ 

IWEDNESDAY, Feb 27th • 9pm I 
Morrissey vs. Lyons at Montgomery Theatre St Ed's vs. Grace 2at Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
..J 




...... 


Tuesday, February 26, 1991 The Observer 
page 23 

• 
LECTURES 
CROSSWORD 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Mitochondria DNA Polymerase: Structure, Mechanism, DNA Replication Fidelity," Dr. Lauri Kaguni, Michigan State University, East Lansing. Auditorium, Galvin Life Sciences. Sponsored by Biological Science. 
7 p.m. Lecture, "Karl Krolow's 'Someone II': And Au­tobiographical Poem," Vera B. Profit. Assocaite Profes­sor. Lounge, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Department 
_o_f_G_e_r_m_a_n_a_n_d_R_u_s_si_.a_n_L_a_n..;,g.;.u_a.;;:g~e-s_a_n_d_L_i_te_r_a_tu_r_e_s_.---­
CAMPUS 
Tuesday 
7 p.m. Film, "Jules and Jim," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
7:30 p.m. Charismatic Prayer Meeting and Mass. Log Chapel. 
8 p.m. African Film Festival: "Chocolat". Center for Social Concerns Multi-Purpose Room. Sponsored by African and African-American Studies Programs; African Students Association; Center for Social Concerns; and Mi­nority. International, and Non-Traditional Student Life Affairs at SMC. 
9 p.m. Film, "The Big Sleep." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
Wednesday 
9 a.m. Workshop By Claire Docherty and Suzanne Smith of the University Counseling center on "Women Balancing Multiple Roles: Wife, Mother and Student." At the Wilson Commons. Sponsored by University Counseling Center. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Romano 
Beef Stew/Biscuit 
Chili Cheese Macaroni 

ACROSS 32 Old--(the 63 Actor-musician sun) Arnez
1 Cordage fiber 
33 Dip out 64 Cloudless
5 Tenth Greek 

35 Akin on Mom's 65 Relief org. 
letter 

side 66 "... --the
10 Virginia--, 
fray"
37 N.L. flier? 
actress from 

67 Retains
Mo. 41 Point on a 
68 Fork prong
prickly plant

14 Region 15 Margarines 42 Term of imprisonment
16 River in SW DOWN 
England 43 J.F.K. 
1 Those who
announcement
'17 Liberty 

overact 
preceder 44 Series of steps 
2 Buffalo-to­18 Wolf cries 46 Absorption Albany canal processes
19 Center of a 3 Plateau Baldwin 49 Foot digit 
4 Pale shade 20 N.F.L. fliers? 50 Male swan 
5 A cousin of 23 Sound receiver 51 A.L. fliers? cabbage 24 Super ending &OAbove 6 Tub plant 25 Combine 61 Concur 7 Church benches
29 Permits 62 Verve 
8 Pope John Paul II, e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Attack 
1 o Pasta for Yankee Doodle? 
11 Assert 12 American colonies' capital: 1777-78 13 Units 
22 Sank a putt 25 Vice prin., for one 26 Winged flame 
seekers 27 Apportion 28 Ship's sail 
suppprts 



29 Noted Tex. 40 Life guards, 53 Nap mission often 54 Eye flirtatiously 30 Diminishes in 45 Pin up again 55 Fonda role 1n intensity "Klute"
47 A Stooge 31 Assam or 
56 Vault 

48 Remonstrate -
Orissa 57Jai-­51 Fuss
34 Here, in Paris 58 Exaggerated 52 Baking story
36 Greek 

resistance force chamber 59 Koko's weapon inW.W.II 
38 Handel 

Answers to any three clues in this 
composition 

puzzle are available by touch-tone 39 Source of phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each strength minute). 
Broiled Chicken 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 

.Give your parents and friends the real scoop on college life 
Send them a subscription to The Observer 
And have the latest news and sports from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's delivered to your home for $25 a semester. Send to: 
•
Name
The Observer 
Address

P.O.Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 City State Zip 
.. ,....... 

t • ' ••••" 
., .... ...... . ­
~,_ 

Sports 
Page 24 Tuesday, February 26, 1991 
Irish look to get back on winning track vs. Dayton 
Seniors Singleton, Ellery playing in last game at JACC 

By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will try to rebound from Saturday night's disap­pointing defeat at St. John's when it hosts Dayton tonight at 8 p.m. at the Joyce ACC. 
The Flyers (13-12) are also coming off a weekend loss. Dayton was defeated 73-63 by Fordham in Madison Square Garden in the opening game of Saturday night's college bas­ketball doubleheader which also saw the Irish lose 57-55 to the Redmen. 
Notre Dame defeated the Flyers 73-67 at Dayton on January 29. Center Keith Tower had perhaps the best game of his career in that one, scoring 22 points and pulling down 11 rebounds to key the victory. 
The Flyers tried to rattle the Irish in the loss by utilizing a full-court press and attempting 22 three-point goals. Dayton converted on just six of those trifectas, however, and Notre Dame had little trouble knifing through the press. Still, Irish coach Digger Phelps does not expect the Flyers to change their strategy very much. . "It's obvious tha~ they're go-mg to press, they re going to pl_ay matchup zone, and they will shoot the threes in transi­tion as well as in the half-court offense," Phelps says. 
Notre Dame, of course, is more comfortable with a delib­erate tempo. The Irish are ex­pected to try to be patient on offense and work to get the types of shots which allowed them to shoot 52 percent from the field at Da.yto~. But Notre Dame guards Tim Smgleton and Elmer B~nnett will have to work their way through the Fly.?r pr~ssu~e first. 
Agam, It comes back to their full-court pressure and on defense and their three-point shooting on offense," Phelps says. "I thought (Alex) R?b.ertso? Saturday night was hittmg hi~ threes from behind the NBA hne." 
R~bertson, the Flyers' third­leadmg scorer at 12.3 ppg, made six of nine from three-
Close losses cause Irish hoops NCAA bid 
"We just couldn't get the ball to fal when we needed it." 
Those were the words of coach Digger Phelps after the Irish men's basketball team lost another close one Saturday night. But those words would have been appropriate on countless other occasions this season as well. 
Notre Dame lost by two points to St. John's, which has been ranked as high as fifth in the nation, Saturday night. The Ken Tysiac Irish also lost to Indiana, which at one time 

World of Sports 

~as ranked as high as fourth, 70-67 early 
H~e111111111111d

m ~he season. As if that wasn't enough, theyl!h!l!!all!!vll!lelll!s~u1111 re ..o•n•e•­pomt defeats versus Syracuse and Virginia at home, and they fell by two to Boston College. 
This is a basketball team which could very easily be on the NCAA Tournament bubble if it knew how to pull games out at crunch time. If the Irish had won four of those five close losses, they would be 15-13 right now, and with the schedule they have played they probably would have a legitimate shot at being a part of March Madness. 
But because they have not been able to produce when the game is on the line, they probably won't even have a chance to participate in the National Invitational Tournament. Phelps's squad had some big victories in the palm of its hand, but whenever the buzzer sounded the Irish had somehow managed to score a few less points than their highly-regarded opponents. Losing close games like that has to be dis­appointing. 
"I think it's frustrating more than disappointing, because of the .way we hav~ lost," Phelps says. "Like the other night agamst St. Johns, there were four key possessions and we didn't get the job done on any of them." 
Elmer Bennett threw up two off-balance shots and missed a box-ou;. and Tim Singleton made a bad pass that Kevin Ellery couldn t handle underneath the hoop. Four mistakes like that with the game on the line added up to a St. John's victory. Similar mistakes in the past have cost the Irish in the other close losses. They just haven't been able to get the job done with the game on the line. 
"If that's our identification of what we have as a team, we have nobody to blame but ourselves," Phelps says. "It was a rebound that cost us against Syracuse, where if we do more than put an arm on (Billy) Owens, we've got it. You can break it down on tape, but that's why we're not three-for-five, four-for­five, or five-for-five in those games." 
Instead, the Irish went zero-for-five against Indiana Vi~ginia, Boston College, Syracuse and St. John's. Where the; might have been on the road to the NCAAs, they are now in danger of losing 20 games. 
It's not that there have been no positives for Notre Dame 
see WORLD, page 21 


point land against Fordham. Dayton's top scoring threats are guards Chip Jones who av­erages 20.7 ppg and has led the Flyers in scoring 16 times this season, and Norm Grevey, who is averaging 13.1 ppg coming off the bench. Centers Makor Shayok and Wes Coffee will pound the boards for the Flyers. 
The Irish are expected to counter with Singleton and Bennett (14.6 ppg) at the guards. Daimon Sweet, who is shooting 57.5 percent from the field and leads the team with 
16.0 ppg, will start at one for­ward, while senior Kevin Ellery 
(11.3 ppg) will play the other forward spot. Tower (6.5 rpg) will start at center. 
NOTES-Singleton and Ellery will be playing their last home game tonight at the JACC. As is customary, they will address the student body immediately following the game... The Flyers average over 25 three­point attempts per game. They are hitting at a 36.0 percent pace from that range... Sweet 
. The Observer/Matt Mitino 
is averaging 21.3 ppg over his 
Jumor center Keith Tower scored 22 points and grabbed 11 rebounds in 
last three games. 

the last matchup with Dayton, a 73-67 win. 
Baseball loses in 13 to Ohio St. 
Season opening tournament presents questions for ND 



BY SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Beginning a familiar experi­ence in an unfamiliar fashion, the Notre Dame baseball team began its season last weekend at the Phoenix Thunderbirds Tournament in an uncharacter­istic way-being the favorite. 
The 13th-ranked Irish did not win the tournament-16th­ranked Ohio State did that, beating the Irish 12-11 in the championship game Sunday-but the weekend served to answer some questions and pose new ones about the 1991 squad. 
"We found out a lot of things about our team," said coach Pat Murphy. "We learned about the competitiveness of our team when the chips are down and things aren't going our way.". 
Notre Dame fought back against Ohio State Sunday when, down 9-3 in the seventh 

Women1 s tennis goes 2-1 over weekend 
Eric Danapllls 

inning, they came back to tie the score at 9-9 in the ninth, only to lose 12-11 in the 11th. Previously in the tournament, Notre Dame had beaten Dartmouth 4-2, defeated Nebraska 8-5 and lost to Ohio State 6-1. 
Down 9-3 in the seventh in­ning of the championship game, Notre Dame scored two runs to narrow the gap to 9-5. In the eighth, Frank Jacobs singled and Eric Danapilis followed with a home run, making the score 9-7. Freshman Tom Price held the Buckeyes without a run in the bottom of the seventh and eighth. 
In the ninth, Edwin Hartwell opened with a single, Craig Counsell followed with another single, and Cory Mee singled in Hartwell. Then Jacobs slapped an apparent triple to right, scoring both runners and mak­ing the score 10-9. 
But it wasn't that easy. The umpire ruled that right fielder Mike Mulligan, although he picked up the ball near the Irish bullpen and threw it to third, had been prevented by the bullpen bench from getting the ball quickly. Jacobs was called back to second base and pinch runner Craig Layson, who had scored the go-ahead run, was 
see BASEBALL, page 20 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 

With a squad hampered by injuries and playing three matches in two days, the Notre Dame women's tennis team went 2-1 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion over the weekend. 
The Irish (8-2) downed Iowa 6-2 on Saturday and Minnesota 7-2 on Sunday afternoon, falling to LSU 6-2 in between. The team played this weekend without regular one-singles player Tracy Barton, who is nursing a sore shoulder. Katie Clark, normally in the singles lineup as well, also did not play, due to a back injury suffered a little over a week ago. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback said, "We had some good per­formances this weekend. Melissa Harris played number­one singles and did not lose a match. She beat LSU's top girl, who Tracy had lost to in the fall, and really had a great weekend." 
"Tracy is getting treatment every day and will hopefully be practicing this week," said Louderback. "A week from Thursday we play at Northwestern and we want to have her back for that. Katie Clark sees a doctor again on Thursday. I don't know how long it will be for her, but right now it does not look good." 
On Saturday, the Irish swept the singles matches against LSU, led by Harris' 6-4, 6-3 vic­tory over Lori Hash. Lisa Tholen, Terri Vitale, Kim Pacella and Christy Faustmann posted straight-set wins, and Kristy Doran took a three-set­ter, winning the deciding set 6­
2. Iowa took the second and third doubles contests in two sets, while first doubles was not played. 
This weekend marked Faustmann's return to the lineup after a bout with mononucleosis. She had missed the entire spring season up to date. 
"The last real tournament I played was in November. It was great to be out there. to be with the team and do my part," said Faustmann. "I got really tired, I guess due to the illness, and it felt like I was a half-step short to every ball. I played as well as I expected to and was a little 
see TENNIS, page 20 




