
IU2·1992 
SISQUICENTfNNIAL 
VOL. XXIV NO.4 


server 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 29, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Gorbachev appoints Pankin 
~~.~~
.g.s:. 
. 1!1--­
Satnt Mary's College 
NOTRE DAM F. •I NOlANA 


MOSCOW (AP) -President Mikhail Gorbachev on Wednes­day named as his new foreign minister Boris Pankin, the only Soviet ambassador who publicly condemned last week's coup as it unfolded. 
Pankin, the ambassador to Prague, has been a diplomat less than a decade. He worked as a journalist in the 1960s and for the Soviet copyright agency before becoming ambassador to Sweden in 1982, a post he held until last year. 
Pankin appeared on Czechoslovak television on Aug. 21, two days after Vice Presi­dent Gennady Yanayev and other hard-liners seized power, and called the coup "a fatal mistake on Yanayev's part." 
''I'd like to appeal to Yanayev, and call on him to understand his mistake and to correct it as soon as possible," Pan kin said at the time. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Vadim Kozyulin said Pankin was the only Soviet ambassador to denounce the plot while it was under way. 
Pankin, who was in the Com­munist Youth League with Gor­bachev and Yanayev, has a re­formis reputation. He was ex­pected to follow the line set down by former foreign minis­ters Eduard Shevardnadze and Alexander Bessmertnykh. 
"I think that Boris Pankin will try to follow the same policy ... (o0 disarmament, detente, good relations with the United States and close cooperation with the 
U.N. Security Council," said Swedish Foreign Minister Sten Andersson. 
Pankin was Soviet ambas­sador to Sweden from 1982­1990, then was transferred to Prague as the Kremlin's first envoy after the ouster of Czechoslovakia's Soviet-backed Communist government. 
The three-day coup collapsed after an elite KGB force refused to attack the building where Boris Yeltsin, president of the Russian republic, and tens of thousands of reformers had set up barricades. 
Pankin's appointment must still be confirmed by the Supreme Soviet national legisla­ture. There were few other de­tails on the nomination, re­ported by the state news agency Tass and read on the main evening news broadcast "Vremya." 
A spokesman for the Soviet Embassy in Prague said Pankin left for Moscow on Wednesday morning. 
Bessmertnykh was fired by Gorbachev last week for "maneuvering or worse" during the coup. Bessmertnykh issued a letter to lawmakers on Tues­day saying he was in his office throughout the takeover, trying to carry out Gorbachev's foreign policy and prevent damage to Soviet foreign relations. 
Gorbachev earlier Wednesday had scheduled a meeting with Eduard Shevardnadze, who was named foreign minister when Gorbachev came to power in 1985. It wasn't clear if the two men had held the meeting. 
About 3,500 Foreign Ministry­staff members had voted to in­vite Shevardnadze back as for­eign minister, a post he re­signed abruptly in December, warning that the nation was on the verge of dictatorship. 
Shevardnadze had said at least twice in the past week that he would not return as foreign minister. 
Pankin started his career as a journalist. He was deputy and then chief editor of Komsomol­skaya Pravda, the newspaper of the Young Communist League, 
see SOVIET I page 4 

Subway derailment; manslaughter charges on driver 
NEW YOHK (AP) -A subway operator was charged with manslaughter after his train derailed and crashed into a pil­lar early Wednesday, killing five passengers and injuring 133, authorities said. 
Motorman Robert Hay, 38, had a blood-alcohol level of 
0.21 percent in a test taken about 13 hours after the wreck, Police Commissioner Lee Brown said. 
Hay had disappeared for more than six hours after the crash until investigators found him near his home, authorities said. 
The motorman told police he drank three beers after the crash, Brown said. The com­missioner said Hay would have had to drink more than three beers to get a 0.21 percent al­coho! level. The New York state standard for vehicular drunken driving is 0.10 percent. 
Brown earlier said an empty crack vial found in the motor­man's cab had tested positive for cocaine. Ray was tested for illegal drug use, but Brown said results wouldn't be available before Thursday, and he wouldn't say if the crack vial was Ray's. 
About 500 passengers were aboard the Brooklyn-bound No. 4 train when it crashed at Union Square-14th Street, a major transfer point, at 12:10 a.m., Transit Authority spokeswoman Caren Gardner said. 
The 10-car Lexington Avenue train crashed while crossing from express to local tracks, she said. 
Cheerleaders take home several awards 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
The Notre Dame cheerleading squad won several awards at a cheerleading camp held last week at the University of Wis­consin, cheerleading coach Maria Majerk said. 
The ND cheerleaders won live blue ribbons at the camp, which represents "superior perfor­mance," Majerk said. 
The squad won ribbons for their performance of various cheers and the ND light song. In addition, trophies were awarded for some of their per­formances. 
In addition, junior Daniel 
Wagner, this year's leprechaun, placed fifth out of 17 school mascots for overall performance. 
Majerk said she was very im­pressed with her squad's per­formance. "They are an excel­lent squad. They are enthusias­tic, and they work very hard." 
She also said that the squad is more than ready for the up­coming football season, which kicks off Sep. 7 against Indiana. "They are practicing every day, and we are working on some new ideas we want to present." 
Forty-five colleges partici­pated in the week-long camp, including "a lot of the Big 10 schools," Majerk said. 
"I thought I was dead," said passenger Gilbert Asante, 24, a tourist from Ghana who escaped with a minor leg injury. 
Some people were trapped in the wreckage for hours. 
"It looks like a jet airplane crashed into the subway," fire Lt. Michael Cogan said. 
The first five cars derailed, and the lead car slammed into a steel pillar. The first and third cars were halved. Others were twisted or overturned. 
The front half of the lead car remained on the local track. The back half was about 100 feet a way, a floor-to-ceiling heap of coiled springs and metal scraps, tangled around support columns. 
The National Transportation Safety Board sealed the accident site. 
The train "was going so fast, the next thing you know it was 'boom,"' said passenger Albert Webb, who saw a baby hurled from its mother's arms. 
It wasn't clear how fast the train was going, Transit Au­thority Vice President Thomas Prendergast said. He didn't rule out speed as a factor in the crash. Normal speed during a track change would be about 15 or 20 mph, he said. But if the train were going straight, it could be about 30 mph. 
Before the derailment, the train apparently had partially overshot two stations, authority President Alan Klepper said. 
The conductor spoke to the 
motorman, who "assured him he was all right," Klepper said. The motorman drives the train; the conductor opens and closes the doors from the middle of it. 
The wreck closed the subway line connecting Grand Central Terminal to the Wall Street area and shut off some other subway service, directly affecting 425,000 commuters and causing a ripple effect in sur­face transit that disrupted mil­lions. 
Passenger Clarence Thomas said the motorman appeared dazed after the crash and didn't answer pa-ssengers' questions about what happened. Th-omas 
see SUBWAY I page 6 


Passing the time until football season 
The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp 
Seniors Ryan Collins and Paul Stoller amuse themselves and ?thers with a game of ping-po~g alon~ Juniper Road. Collins and Stoller were among the most dedtcated of foot~all fans, b_egtnn!ng thetr camp-out for 1991 football tickets on Wednesday afternoon. Ticket sales dtd not begtn unttl 9 a.m. 
-



~~e_2_______________________________________________.~~~~~--------------------------------T_h~u~rs~d~a~y,~A~u~g~u~st~2=9~·~1~9~91 
INSIDE COLUMN 
New cement part of latest sinister plot? 
As a disturbed person, I------­tend to notice disturbing trends before most people. Have you noticed the intense proliferation of ce­ment (pronounced see­ment if you're in Indiana, suh-ment if you're anywhere else) on campus? Innocuous enough? Well, there is more concrete on campus ------­this fall than there was last fall. There was more cement on campus last fall than the fall before that. A slow inevitable tide of flat stone slabs is imperceptibly creeping across the face of our university. The university adds these sidewalks, curbs and plazas in the name of beautification. I, however, sense something far more diabolical, something almost ... sinister. 
Stop and think about concrete. It's cold and gray. It's borders are precise and rmite and only grows in size when the big kahunas say so. Nice, neat, conservative straight lines and smooth curves. Now imagine.grass. Green, vibrant and alive, grass is the symbol of change. It is chaotic. You never know where it will pop-up, creeping through cracks in the sidewalks. Concrete crushes the grass, extinguishing the green glow of life. That is why I think the people upstairs have launched a subversive counterattack to the green revolution. And where will their secret agenda take us?God knows (literally). My theory? I think they envision a campus entirely paved over. 
Oh, so you think that's absurd, huh? Well lets just ponder this for a minute. The first benefit the u·niversity has to gain from a campus-wide cementing would be parking space. Imagine the revenue that could be generated on home football game weekends. Not to mention added parking permits for students. Conclusion number one: money is involved, therefore my theory is possible. 
Another point. What happens to the at­
mosphere around here if all the grass is 
blanketed with stone? Well, oxygen once 
produced by the grass and trees would be­
come scarce. Once the oxygen hit dangerously 
low level, the university would require all 
students to purchase oxygen gas masks. 
These masks would be necessary to decrease 
University's responsibility for the well being of 
the student body. Most importantly, all the gas 
masks would be identical thus laying the 
foundation for a university dress code. 
Conclusion number two: University liability 
would be reduced, control over student dress 
would become a reality and money is involved 
(again), thus my theory is probable. 
Finally, when the large areas of grass 
disappear, we will no longer have the svelte 
and/or nubile sunbathers lying on the lawns 
scantily clad. In fact, the loss of oxygen 
mentioned above might lead to a greenhouse 
effect pocket surrounding campus which in 
turn would force us to wear bulky protective 
clothing making men and women 
indistinguishable. No more physical attrac­
tion, no more smooching and earlobe nuzzling 
(i.e. no sex). Conclusion number three: if pandemic pavement will prevent sex, my theory is inevitable. 
The opinions expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TOOAV'S STAFF: 

Sports: Rich Kurz
Accent: Jahnelle Harrigan 

Photo:Melissa Cusack 
R. Garr Schwartz Production: 
News:Cheryl Moser Megan Junius Melissa Cusack Lauren Aquino 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Soviet restoration pleases church 
NEW YORK -Religious leaders rejoiced at the restoration last week of Soviet President Mikhail Gor­bachev, praising Russian leader Boris Yeltsin, Russian Orthodox Patriarch Alexi II and the popular resistance that helped overcome the abortive coup. Prior to its end, religious leaders in this country and abroad, along with Western government heads, had denounced the at­tempted overthrow. Reactions had come from the U.S. National Council of Churches, and ifrom the World Council of Churches, the Lutheran World Federation, the World Alliance of Reformed Churches and Conference of European Churches. They urged "commitment to democracy based on human rights and fundamental freedoms" and pledged support to Soviet churches "as they stand fast in defence of these principles." 
NATIONAL 

MIA I -Manuel Noriega's prosecutors landed what may be their biggest catch so far when a former am­bassador pleaded guilty and agreed to testify to drug shipments and payoffs to the deposed Panamanian leader. Ricardo Bilonick, 44, could have faced up to 50 years in prison, but prosecutors recommended he serve only a maximum 

of 10 under the plea bargain. Bilonick was "ambassador at large" in Washington under Noriega's predecessor, Omar Torrijos, and also had an interest in several Panamanian airlines. More importantly, Assistant U.S. Attorney Myles Malman told the court, Bilonick was the 
OF INTEREST 
•organizations receiving concession stands may pick up their packets beginning Friday, August 30, at the LaFortune Information Desk. Contact the Student Activities office if there are any questions. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/August 28 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 169.62 Million 217.17 -11} 1.91 S&P COMPOSITE 396.64 3.58

11 
DOW JONES INDUSTRW..S 3,055.23 1} 29.07 PRECIOUS METALS GOLD it $ .40 to $355.60/oz. SII..VERi} .2¢ to $3.95/oz. 
City  H  L  
Athens  88  70  
Atlanta  91  73  
Berlin  68  52  
·.· .·. Boston  92  72  
·.; · Chicago  95  71  
·=:.:.. Dallaa-Ft.Worth  93  72  
.,:,., Denver  87  61  
Detroit  90  69  
Honolulu  87  75  
88  72  
93  71  
72  59  
82  62  
97  66  
83  73  
66  57  
92  72  
79  57  
94  73  
92  66  
90  76  
74  60  
61  55  
94  71  
82  70  

representative in Panama of Colombia's Medellin cocaine cartel. "This is a substantial witness in this case," said Malman. Noriega goes on trial Sept. 4. Jury selection is expected to take several weeks. Noriega faces racketeering and drug counts in the indictment. He surrendered to U.S. troops after the December 1989 in­vasion of Panama. 
Auto workers~oining national labor rally 
WASHINGTO -More than 2,000 United Auto Workers members from the union's Region 3 in Indiana and Kentucky will rally with other labor organizations Saturday in Washington, D.C. "That number doesn't even reflect those members who are getting to Washington on their own initiative to celebrate the real meaning of Labor Day," said William Osos, UAW Region 3 director. "Workers in America today have huge problems making it from day to day. They are losing their rights, their dignity. We're marching to show we care." Unions all over the country will gather this weekend in honor of the national Labor Day holiday. 
INDIANA 

Hurricane cuts Hoosier blood supply 
INDIANAPOLIS -The hurricane that hit New England last week caused a critical shortage at blood banks and is keeping Indiana hospitals from tapping into a national blood resource sharing network. "Very little blood is moving across the country because very little is available," said Elizabeth Hall, a spokeswoman for the American Red Cross in Washington. Officials at the Central Indiana Regional Blood Center said Tuesday there is a critical shortage of all blood types, but particularly 0-positive blood. Hurricane Bob forced officials in Maine and Massachusetts to cancel blood drives last week. That and the increased demand for blood due to injuries from the storm caused a nationwide shortage, officials said. 
•A memorial mass will be held today at 5 p.m. in honor of Jeffrey Engelneier at Sacred Heart Church. En­gelneier, killed in a Memorial Day boating accident, lived in Pangborn Hall for the past three years. Father Malloy will celebrate the mass. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1922: Mushroom fungus was reported to be seriously threatening the Palace of Versailles in Paris. 

• 
In 1941: Hitler and Mussolini met in Berlin to form plans td counter U.S. aid to Allies. 

• 
In 1967: In Cairo, 150 military officers were arrested in a plot to overthrow Nasser. 

• 
In 1973: Federal Judge John Sirica in Washington called for surrender of Watergate tapes, but President Nixon refused. 


• Ten years ago: Two people were killed and 18 were 
wounded when two Arabs attacked a Viennese synagogue with automatic pistols and grenades. 
------~--~~ 
Thursday, August 29, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Bush and Major are thinking alike on crisis 
START AN IMPRESSIVE RESUME WITH ACOLLEGE ELECTIVE. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL CAPTAIN SELLING 239-6264 
Take an introductory course from Army ROTC. With no obligation. You'll begin to acquire the confidence, self-discipline, decisiveness, and leadership skills sought by employers of college graduates. And you'll learn how you can place "Army Officer" on your resume when you graduate. 
Set a course for success this term. Register now for an Army ROTC elective. 


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
Killer seeks out bodies 
BLACK CANYON CITY, Ariz. (AP) -The FBI flew a man who claims he has killed dozens of times to Arizona on Wednesday in search o victims' bodies. 
Donald Leroy Evans led In­vestigators into the desert looking for remains of three women. The FBirefused to dis· close details of the search or the slaylngs. 
Evans pleaded gullty to fed­eral kidnapping charges In the abduction-slaying of a tO-year­old girl in Mississippi. He faces a state murder charge in her death. 
After his arrest in early Au­gust, Evans claimed he killed more than 60 people across the country since 1977. He offered to 'l:ooperate In exchange for the death penalty. 
He was flown from Gulfport, Miss., under tight security, FBI agent Larry McCormick said in Black Canyon City, about 40 miles north of Phoenix. About 20 Investigators joined in the desert search, he said. 
In the only connrmed case so far, he admitted kidnapping and killing Beatrice Louise Routh. He led Investigators to the body Aug. 11. 
NASA sets launch date 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -NASA said Wednesday It will try to launch space shuttle Dis· covery on Sept. 12 with a mul­timillion-dollar satellite de­signed to study the upper at­mosphere. 
Mission managers set the launch date after a one-day flight readiness review at Kennedy Space Center. 
Discovery is scheduled to lift off on NASA's 43rd shuttle flight at 6:57 p.m. EDT. The spaceship Is to return to Kennedy, provided the weather is good, around 1:55 a.m. EDT on Sept. 18. 
It would be the first shuttle landing In the dark at Kennedy, the prime touchdown spot since this summer. So far, eight shut­tle flights have ended In Florida, the latest 2 1/2 weeks ago. 
Discovery's five astronauts plan to release the Upper At­mosphere Research Satellite midway In the flight. The satellite is to spend at least the next 1 112 years measuring ozone in the stratosphere, at­mospheric temperature and winds, and solar energy from an orbit 372 miles high. 
Four of the 10 scientific In­struments aboard the craft will study Earth's protective ozone layer, which experts believe ls being destroyed by manmade pollutants. Scientists hope to observe the annual buildup and breakup of the Antarctic ozone hole. 
The project's cost, Including the minimum 1 V2 years of op­eration and another year of data analysis, is $740 million, officials said. 
NASA said the 14,500-pound satellite ls the largest atmo­spheric research spacecraft ever flown. 
--~-~--------------------------------------_1 
KENNEBUNKPORT, Maine (AP) -British Prime Minister John Major joined President Bush on Wednesday in opposing a quick package of financial aid for the collapsing Soviet Union, agreeing that caution is the best approach for the West. 
·There's a potential for chaos there," Major said. "Nobody quite knows what will happen. Events are moving at ·a most astonishing pace." 
Nevertheless, Major said the collapse of communist rule was ·a huge prize for the West." 
·what we're seeing is one of, if not the, most remarkable event of the 20th Century," Ma­jor said. "We haven't seen any­thing like this before. We didn't frankly expect to see it in this fashion in our lifetime." 
The prime minister made the rounds of network television talk shows In Washington be­fore flying to Kennebunkport with his wife, Norma, and two children for a two-night stay with the Bushes at their ocean­front home. 
Bush and his wife Barbara warmly greeted the Majors as they stepped off a Marine heli­copter at the president's six­acre compound. Bush person­ally drove them to their guest 
RESERVE 

quarters In a red golf cart and ordered his speed boat brought around so he could take the prime minister for a ride on the open ocean. 
Asked when the United States might recognize the Baltic states, Bush t~ld reporters, ·rn stick with Bob Strauss," referring to a strong hint by the new U.S. ambassador to Moscow that the announcement would be made on Friday. 
In Washington Major also met with Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger. 
On Capitol Hill, Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., chairman of the House Armed Services Commit­tee, proposed cutting $1 billion from U.S. weapons programs to provide humanitarian aid to the Soviets. 
"We do not want the first winter of freedom after 70 years of communism to be a disaster for the Soviet Union," said Aspin, referring to crop shortages and other economic crises there. 
What was once planned as a largely social gathering turned into a business meeting, with Bush and Major exploring how the West should respond to the momentous changes in the So-
OFFICERS' 
viet Union. Bush met earlier in the week with Prime Minister Brian Mulroney of Canada. 
Germany, France and Italy have taken the lead in arguing that the West should -step in with a large package of money to speed economic reforms in the rapidly changing Soviet Union. 
Bush, however, has stuck by his insistence that the Soviet Union make major strides to­ward a free-market economic system before getting cash. Representatives of the seven richest industrialized nations will meet in London on Thurs­day and in Paris on Friday to discuss a common approach. 
Major made clear that he sides with Bush, as he did last month at the economic summit in London. 
"Firstly, we want to see a credible reform program pro­posed by the Soviets," he said on ABC's "Good Morning America." He said there is "no point In providing financial as­sistance until that credible re­form program is in place. It wasn't at the time of the (London meeting) and it still isn't. When it is, different cir­cumstances may arise." 
Major told television inter-
TRAINING 
.................-----------···""................. 
-----=~:::.~----------------------·----·"'"'''''' ..... 
...-------------------------------------" 
..

-----------------------------------·· 
viewers that the Soviets most urgently need technical assis­tance and food aid. 
"They certainly need advice and know-how," he said on CNN. ·Now, those are the pri­mary things that they need, and I think the West will be pre­pared to assist President Gor­bachev 'with that." 
Bush told reporters he had not considered the question of food aid but that "we want to do our part on that." 
But he said he wants a full, orderly study of the Soviets' needs for humanitarian aid. "There's not going to be any decrees.... It has to be an orderly process. You don't just go click off a decision," Bush told reporters as he left the golf course. 
·It's early for that," Bush said. "Do they have to ask for it? Not necessarily, We want to know who 'they' is however. 
"We're dealing with a situa­tion that's right in the midst of development here, republics, the center all trying to sort out new relationships," he said. 
Technical assistance includes help In training Soviet officials to adopt Western techniques in banking, business, taxation, transportation and agriculture. 
·---------------------------~~----------------~ ~------------­
page 4 
Subway 
continued from page 1 

was treated for injuries and then visited his lawyer, who within 12 hours of the wreck announced plans for a $10 million lawsuit against the Transit Authority. 
After the crash, police asked Ray if he was injured. When they determined he wasn't, they left him to help injured passen­gers. Then Ray disappeared un­til he was found returning to his home in the Bronx about 6 1/2 hours after the derailment. 
Transit Authority rules require the motorman to stay at the scene of the accident, Kiepper said. 
Ray was hired in January 1983, Kiepper said. He passed two drug tests, when he was promoted to motorman in June 1988 and after he ran a signal on Jan. 15. He was suspended for three days without pay for running the signal. 
The Observer Thursday, August 29, 1991 

Lesonsky speaks on working women 
Ray was questioned all day and being held Wednesday night. 
Kiepper said the station suf­fered "very serious structural damage," with about 20 steel columns knocked down or otherwise damaged. 
Chief of Detectives Joseph Borrelli said police could con­firm 133 passengers were in­jured. He said 20 of them were hospitalized, one in critical condition. 
Sgt. Mary Wrensen, a police spokeswoman, earlier said that 215 passengers and 44 rescuers were injured. 
Rescuers were overcome by smoke and heat. Many passen­gers suffered dislocated shoul­ders or broken bones. 
The dead were all New York­ers. 
In December, a tunnel fire between Manhattan and Brook­lyn spread smoke through a crowded car, killing two and injuring about 150 others. A subway crash in Brooklyn in 1918 killed 97 people. In 1928, a Manhattan crash killed 16. 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Rieva Lesonsky, Editor-in­Chief of the 'Entrepreneur Magazine Group (which include Entrepreneur, Entrepreneurial Woman, and New Business Op­
portunities magazines) spoke at Saint Mary's on the topic of business start-up and owner­ship for women. 
· In recent years, female.­owned operations have risen­from five percent to 33 to 38% depending on which figures you believe, said Lesonsky. By the year 2000, women are projected to own and operate 50% of American businesses. Saint Mary's is currently the only college in the nation offer­ing courses specifically geared toward entrepreneurship for women. 
According to Lesonsky the 
the future, but we need to get to that point." . 
Things have changed a lot in the last few years for both men and women .according to Lesonsky. " Ten years ago people didn't know the word Entrepreneur. 
They couldn't spell it, say it, or know what it meant," said Lesonsky. " I knew I had made it in 'pop culture' when I heard the word used on a soap opera a few years ago." 
Lesonsky feels women need encouragement and role models for inspiration. "They need to see that women are making it big in business," said Lesonsky. 
"When I graduated from high school in 1970, I asked my counselor what I could do, she said I could be a teacher, I asked what else, and she said, "well, you could be a teacher." 
"Today it is all there for 
UPI seeks bankruptcy protection 
WASHINGTON (AP) -United Press International sought bankruptcy protection for the second time in six years Wednesday, saying it owes 4,000 creditors but will con­tinue efforts to find a buyer for the 84-year-old news service. 
In a petition filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York, the company listed liabilities of approximately $65.2 million and said it has assets of about $22.7 million in 47 countries. 
It said the largest of its credi­tors is the Internal Revenue Service, which it owes $2 mil­lion. 
Other big creditors include two telecommunications firms -Contel ASC of Rockville, Md., at $898,867, and AT&T at $795,368. 
"We plan that UPI's current operations will continue nor­mally during reorganization planning," UPI's president and chief executive officer, Peter VanBennekom, said. "We do not expect the process to impede talks with any qualified purchasers or investors." 
VanBennekom acknowledged in a message sent to UPI em­ployees Friday that no deal for new ownership has been estab­lished. 
"Today's step could spur dis­cussions under way or newly opened with prospective owners or venture partners," he said. 
"The company is considering a number of possible reorgani­zation scenarios, ranging from independent operation to vary­ing degrees of outside invest­ment and participation," said VanBennekom. 
The Toronto Sun Corporation, the Press Association of Great Britain and Milton Benjamin, a 
former UPI president now a Washington consultant, have been named in news reports as having some interest in acquiring UPI. 
Benjamin could not be reached. The Sun Corporation's chairman, Douglas Creighton, was away from his office. 
An aide to Creighton said ear­lier in the week that there had been talks in London about possible purchase of the news service, but that Creighton had said the Sun would not take part unless some other big in­vestor took the lead. 
UPI said the company's board of directors voted Tuesday to file under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy act, which permits a company to continue to oper­ate while a judge supervises re­organizes the company and its debts. 
UPI went through one reor­ganization under Chapter 11 in 1985 and 1986, and its owner, Infotechnology Inc., has been operating under Chapter 11 since March. 
In the previous reorganiza­tion, some UPI creditors were given stock for which they could demand redemption after June 1991 for a total cost to the company of $2 million. 
UP! acknowledged that earlier this month a representative of the creditors informed UPI of demands for payment that could exceed $2 million. UPI has 90 days, from the time of the demands, to comply. 
Since last November, UP! employees have agreed to re­ductions in their pay of 20 to 35 percent. The agreement for these reductions expires Sept. 14. 
Company spokesman Milt Capps said UPI management would open meetings with a Wire Service Guild union local on Tuesday "to talk about wages and related Guild con­tract matters." 
largest problem facing women in business today is money. Not only do women face problems receiving loans for business start-up, they face problems receiving loans for expansion capitol. 
Women also face problems of being taken seriously with em­ployees. "Sales managers and vendors still have the attitude of 'hey baby I'll take care of you,' but things are getting better," said Lesonsky, "I have hope for 
Soviet 
continued from page 1 
from 1953-65, and chairman of the Soviet copyright agency from 1973-82. 
The current editor of Kom­somolskaya Pravda, Vladislav Fronin, described Pankin as "a man in whose time Komsomol­skaya Pravda became one of the best newspapers in the country." 
"He is a man of progressive views, striking talent and an energetic and lively mind," Fronin said. 
Pankin's work in the copy­right agency took him to Swe­den several times to negotiate copyright compensation for Swedish writers published in the Soviet Union. He was ap­women, you can do anything." 
Lesonsky, who has appeared on "Good Morning America," "The Oprah Winfrey Show," and the Financial News Network feels that women grow-up with restraints. "Girls grow-up with restraints. They are told not to talk to strangers and not to ask for money," said Lesonsky. 
"In the business world, they have to forget what it means to be a little girl," she said. 
pointed ambassador by former Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev. 
"He learned a lot in Sweden and was impressed by the democracy there," Pierre Schori, Sweden's under-secre­tary of state, told Sweden's TT news agency Wednesday. 
Pankin is a graduate of the Communist Party's elite Higher Party School and in 1983 got a journalism degree at Moscow State University. 
His tenure in Sweden was highlighted by a persistent dis­pute over reports that Soviet submarines were sailing clan­destinely into Swedish territo­rial waters. Pankin stuck solidly behind Kremlin denials of infiltration. 
Before his departure for Prague in 1990, he told the TT agency he was a true believer in Gorbachev's reforms. 
A T T E N T I 0 N J 0 B S E E K E R S Hey students! Are you looking for a job with TOP WAGES FLEXIBLE HOURS, FREE UNIFORMS, and DISCOUNT MEALS? Well, we have a great opportunity for you to join the locally-owned and operated Burger King team located, for your convenience just minutes away from Notre Dame and St. Mary's, at the corner of Ironwood and State Road 23. We are currently accepting applications. Stop by and apply TODAY! BURGER KING (Corner of Ironwood and S.R. 23) 273-2220  Ill~~~~N~ sh~'' ' ,.~ · ~CLUB ATTENTION SENIORS! ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB IS NOW OPEN 9 PM-2 AM EVERY WEDNESDAYI THURSDAYI FRIDAY1 AND SATURDAY NIGHT ALSO, STUDENT DJs AND CAMPUS BANDS CONTACT ERIC AT 239-7521 IllALUMNI SENIOR ~CLUB  


Thursday, August 29, 1991 The Observer page 5 

Notre Dame professor named to Andrew McKenna Chair 
State Funding for Higher Education 
Public universities learned a lesson in recessionary economics this year as overall state allocations lor higher education remained at a virtual standstill. Nationwide, an estimated $35.7 billion was 
• decreased 5%or more appropriated lor fiscal 1992, compared to $3S.5 billion the previous year. 

Percent change in state funding, fiscal1991 to fiscal1992 
Gill decreased f.'SS no change ED increased D increased less than 5% less than 5% 5%ormore 
,o 
0. 
":'b 8.2 
C> 
Hawaii 

Source: AP survey 
Special to The Observer life span. He has done research in these areas with the general 
John Borkowski, professor of populace as well as with re­psychology at the University of tarded, learning disabled, gifted Notre Dame, has been named and aged people. the nrst occupant of the An­In addition, he is interested in drew McKenna Chair in Psy­developing ways by which re­chology, according to Timothy search in cognitive psychology O'Meara, the University can be translated into educa­provost. tion, particularly in the elemen­
Borkowski, a member of the tary school classroom. His edu­Notre Dame faculty since 1967, cational research has been conducts research in the devel­conducted in Munich; London; opment processes of learning Nagpur, India; and South Bend. and memory across the human His most recent research, 
..--------------, supported by the National Insti­tute of Health, centers on un­derstanding the consequences
Helpbring 
1.1.1 1-10
theworld 

~zo;R
together -'It 
~ ~ ~ 
.....
Host an 

~c •·•
-
.g =>o 
ell 1-m
exchange 

·a 'E
E1-.=
student. 

Eo =cnm 
u 
01.) 'C 
~ =c 
c m 
~
• 
INVENTIVE~' 

-PwtrrT,_.,IOI.J,N;SftM ALBERT BROOKS MERYL STREEP 
~ L >-"TWO 
o •·• m DEFENDING
Z -"C 
THUMBS UP!" 

-Z ;t 
-•mtollDT 

YOUR LIFE Exchange, a Presidential 
International Youth 

RIP TORN LEE GRANT BUCK HENRY 
Initiative for peace, brings teenagers from other coun­bies to live for a time with 
American families and at­tend American schools. Learn about participating as a volunteer host family. 

Write: YOUTH EXCHANGE Pueblo, Colorado 81009 
~The International Youth Exchange. 
The Observer has 
positions for Day Editor and typists. Contact Dannika Simpson at 239-7471 or X4233 
·1.0 
-8.0 
R.I. 
-
0.2 III] 
N.J. 
3.4 I]] 
Del. 
·1.8 III] 
Md. 
AP/Karl Tate 

uyouR BELLY WILL ACHE WITH LAUGHTER:' "A BOLDLY IMAGINED NEW COMEDY!' 
• .............. m<E 
"RIOTOUSLY FUNNY!' 
-)ofiC... IIXn'!EC<J<llPW'llW 
"A WINNER! ROMANTIC AND FUNNY!'
---101-TV "A HEAVENlY COMEDY!' 
...~....,._TV 
"BRILLIANTJLY 


of teenage parenting on the de­velopment of both the mother and child. 
Borkowski has published more than 100 research papers and chapters in various profes­sional journals. 
He is also the co-author with Chris Anderson, Notre Dame professor of psychology, of two psychology texts "Experi-mental Psychology: Tactics of Be­havioral Research" (1977) and "Experimental Psychology: Re­search Tactics and Their Appli­cations" (1978), both published by Scott, Foresman and Com­pany. 
Two Iranians arrested and charged with illegal sales to Iran 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Gov­ernm~nt agents Wednesday ar­rested two Iranians in Newport Beach, Calif. on charges of ille­gally diverting equipment with potential nuclear and missile uses to Iran. 
Ray Amiri, 43, the owner of Ray Amiri Computer Consul­tants of Newport Beach, and Don Danesh, 55, the company's operations manager, were be­ing held without bail, the Com­merce Department announced in Washington. 
If convicted of alleged viola­tions of export control laws, they could be sentenced to five years in prison and fined $250,000, said Brooks Ohlson, special agent in charge of the Office of Export Enforcement's Los Angeles field office. The Of­fice of Export Enforcement is part of the Commerce Depart­ment. 
The equipment allegedly di­verted to Iran includes portable oscilloscopes, which measure and analyze electrical impulses and can be used in missile 
He is co-editor, with Jeanne 
Day, Notre Dame associate 
professor of psychology, of two 
books of psychology readings: 
"Cognition in Special Children: 
Comparative Approaches to Re­
tardation, Learning Disabilities, 
and Giftedness" and 
"Intelligence and Exceptional­
ity: New Directions for Theory, 
Assessment, and Instructional 
Practices," both published in 
1987 by Ablex. 
Borkowski served as chair­
man of Notre Dame's depart­
ment of psychology for six years 
and has supervised the 
dissertations of 15 doctoral 
candidates. 
He sat on the Mental Retarda­
tion Research Committee of the 
National Institutes of Health 
from 1986-90 and and was its 
chair from 1988-90. He was a 
research fellow at the Max 
Planck Institute in Munich in 
1984. 

He has served on the editorial staff of several professional journals, including the Ameri­can Journal of Mental Defi­ciency, Developmental Psychol­ogy, and Human Learning and 
Individual Differences. 
Prior to his arrival at Notre 
Dame, Borkowski was an assis­
tant professor of psychology at 
Oberlin College. He received his 
bachelor's degree from St. 
Benedict's College in Atchison, 
Kan., where he was valedicto­
rian of his class. 
He holds a master's degree in psychology from Ohio University and a doctorate, also in psychology, from the University of Iowa. 
The Andrew McKenna Chair in Psychology is the gift of Notre Dame alumnus and vice chairman of the University's Board of Trustees Andrew McKenna and his wife Joan. 
McKenna is president and_ chief executive officer of Schwarz Paper Company, a na­tional distributor of paper packaging and allied products and also a printer and con­verter of paper products. 
Headquartered in Morton Grove, II., the company has major facilities there and in Niles, II., Santa Fe Springs,
• 

guidance systems, Commerce said in its announcement. 
From 1988 through 1990, Amiri received licenses from the Commerce Department to export at least $322,000 of equipment to Iran, according to department documents ob­tained earlier in the week by The Associated Press. Most of the licenses were for computer and telecommunications equipment. 
The equipment was sold to, among others, the Iran Telecommunications Research Center and the National Iranian Oil Co., according to the docu­ments. 
Commerce Department spokesmen in Washington were not In their offices Wednesday evening when announcement of the arrests was made via fac­simile machine. 
The case is one of the first in­volving alleged diversion to Iran of high-technology items with both civilian and military uses, Ohlson said In a telephone interview. 
Calif., LaPorte, Ind., Dallas and 
Milwaukee. McKenna joined 
the firm in 1955 and has been 
its president since 1964. 
He also is chairman of Group 
II Communications, a Franklin, 
Wis., based sales promotion 
agency. 
McKenna is a director of Aon 
Corporation, the Chicago Bears, 
the Chicago Cubs, Dean Foods 
Company, Lake Shore Bancorp, 
Inc., Lake Shore National Bank, 
McDonald's Corporation, 
Skyline Corporation and 
Tribune Company . 
He acted as chairman of the 
Chicago White Sox during his 
group's ownership of that or­
ganization from 1975-81 and 
served as chairman of the 
board of the Chicago Cubs from 
1981-84 following the club's 
purchase by Tribune Company. 
He continues to serve as a di­
rector of the Cubs and joined 
the board of directors of the 
Chicago Bears in May 1985. 
McKenna was graduated from 
Notre Dame in 1951 with a 
bachelor of science degree in 
business administration and 
marketing and has been a 
trustee of the University since 
1980. He also is a Fellow of the 
University and was awarded an 
honorary doctor of laws degree 
in 1989. 
He received a J.D. degree from the DePaul University Law School in 1954 and has served as chairman of DePaul's College of Commerce advisory council. 
McKenna has been a member 
of numerous civic, community 
and philanthropic boards over 
the years. 
Among many such activities, he currently Is a director of Children's Memorial Hospital of Chicago, The Museum of Science and Industry, the Big Shoulders Fund of the Archdio­cese of Chicago, and the Asso­ciation of Governing Boards of Colleges and Universities. 
He has been the recipient of many industry, business and civic awards. 
The McKennas are the -par­ents of seven children and the the grandparents of fourteen. They make their home In Win­netka,Il . 

1ne uoserver

pageS Thursday, August 29, 1991 
Kennedy rape trial continues as the state appeals for judge's removal in Florida 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) -Prosecutors said Wednesday they'll ask a higher court to remove the judge in William Kennedy Smith's rape trial. In the meantime they want her to punish the defense for obtaining the alleged victim's medical records without permission. 
Palm Beach Circuit Judge Mary Lupo has refused to dis­qualify herself from the case. Prosecutors contend she has shown bias in her rulings. 
State Attorney David Blud­worth's office said in a state­ment that prosecutors would appeal the judge's refusal to step aside. The appeal to the 4th District Court of Appeal was expected later this week. 
Smith, 30, faces trial Jan. 13 on charges he raped a woman from nearby Jupiter on March 30 at his family's Palm Beach estate. He is a nephew of Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. 
Lead prosecutor Moira Lasch asked the judge Wednesday to investigate defense conduct and consider unspecified sanctions, charging that Smith's attorneys obtained some of the alleged victim's medical records with­out approval from either the woman or the court. 
Setting in the sunshine 
One day earlier, the judge granted a protective order against some defense efforts to obtain the woman's records, including those of a Winter Park doctor who told Lasch he already sent his records to Smith attorney Roy Black. 
"The defense in this conduct has not dealt in good faith with the court, the state, (the alleged victim's attorney), or the vic­tim," Lasch wrote. 
Among attachments to her motion was a letter from Dr. Max Watzman, saying he had sent records to Black without knowing the victim was contest-
The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp 

The beginning of classes did not stop students from enjoying a game of volleyball Wednesday after­noon. Not only did "mod-quad" students occupy the courts, volleyball nets were visible all over campus. 
American Red Cross 



LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke o l1fesoving Red Cross CPR course.

+American Red Cross 
ing release of her records. 
The judge on Tuesday quashed defense subpoenas for Watzman, three other doctors and four hospitals in the Or­lando area, where the woman 
'once lived. 
Lupo also asked to see more 
recent medical records sought 
by Smith's attorneys before 
ruling on whether they should 
be protected. 
Lasch asked the judge to find out which other records Smith's attorney.s may have, then order them returned and block the defense from using them. 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR 
Focus 

on America's Future 

Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 
'li'~t~Dec9.LR.\!!"~ 
WHAT IF YOU DON'T GET INTO THE SCHOOL Of YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure. there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chances of being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higherl 

PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
272•4135 

•
i I 

•::• 
FRESHMAN WELCOME WEEK 
TONIGHT! "FRESHMAN BOWLING NIGHT" AT UNIVERSITY LANES 7:ooPM·II:ooPM 
Bus leaves Nd Main Circle at 6:45 PM, 7:15 PM, 7:45PM, 8:15PM & 8:45 PM Last shuttle leaves University Lanes at 11 :OOPM $1.75 per game w/ ND I.D., Shoes: $1.30/pr. FREE Transportation 
FRIDAY, AUGUST 30 "OJ NlGHT AT THEODORE'S" 
(2nd Floor, LaFortune Student Center) 9:00 PM-1:00AM 
*FREE* 

Bring your friends & dance the night away!!!! For more Information Call 239-7308 

~------~---~ 
Thursday, August 29, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Trump receives OK to restructure his Taj Mahal Casino 

Senior smiles 
The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp 
Farley seniors Cathy Evces, Elizabeth Gleason, Lynn Mordan, Barb Healy and Susan Dognaux enjoy their last "Welcome Back Picnic" sponsored by University Food Services. The picnic, held in Stepan Field, allowed North and South Quad students to enjoy eat dinner together Wednesday 
Governor blocks yes-no vote 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) -The governor asked the leg­islature Wednesday to autho­rize a constitutional referen­dum that would prevent a yes­or-no vote on whether Puerto Hico should become the 51st 
U.S. state. 
Instead, Gov. Hafael Hernan­dez Colon wants a constitu­tional amendment to ensure that any referendum on the Caribbean Island's political sta­tus include the three options of commonwealth, statehood and 
independence. 
Hernandez Colon and his Popular Democratic Party favor continuation, with enhanced autonomy, of Puerto Rico's nearly 40-year status as a U.S. commonwealth. 
The Best Rates in Town! 
Call and compare our rates to any other federally insured financial institution. We're sure you'll find we have the best rates In townl 

3 Month Certificate 6 Month Certificate 

12 Month Certificate 
$2,000 Minimum Deposit Dividends Paid at Maturity 
SubsJantlal penalty for early withdrawal 
5.752% 
Daily Money Market Account $2,500 Minimum 
All annual interest rates listed here are subject to change without notice 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (219) 239-66 11 
Independent from the University 
The pro-statehood New Pro­gressive Party has said it would authorize a yes-or-no referen­dum if it returns to power in the 1992 election. 
Polls Indicate Puerto Ricans are almost evenly divided be­tween commonwealth and statehood. Fewer than 10 per­cent favor independence. 
Under commonwealth, the 3.6 million Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens but pay no federal taxes, cannot vote for president and have no voting representa­tives In Congress. 
Hernandez Colon made his proposal in a bill introduced in the island's Senate and House of Representatives. The bill would authorize a referendum on Dec. 8 on whether Puerto Rico's constitution should be amended to dictate the terms of any future status referendum. 
It would also enshrine the concept of cultural identity in the constitution with an amendment stating, "Puerto Hicans are a people with their own language, culture and per­sonality and the right to deter­mine freely and democratically their political status." 
In February, legislation au­thorizing a status referendum this year died in a U.S. Senate committee, largely because of concerns over admitting a cul­turally distinct, Spanish-speak­ing state to the union. 
Everyday 
someone 
needs us. 
And 

we need 
you. 


Rates are .30~ daily. The Sunday paper l.'i $3.00. Papers are delivered to donns and faculty offices. For more information call Greg Kletzly at 272-5896. 
Fall Tenn  
Mon.-Fri.  $20.10  
Mon.-Sat.  $23.40  
Mon.-Sun.  $56.40  
Sunday Only  $33.00  

Delivery for Fall tenn begins on Sat. 3, ends on Dec.B. Subolcrlptlon price does not Include delivery during school holidays or breaks. · 
. ­

, ·, II t-' ff ~ --o' .-• • \-~ t1 II"' ill•••'·'' "' ~ ,• ,. , , 
CAMDEN, N.J. (AP) -Donald Trump's Taj Mahal Casino He­sort won approval Wednesday from a bankruptcy judge for a plan to restructure its huge debt by surrendering half the developer's equity in the At­lantic City property. 
The plan, which gives bond­holders the equity in exchange for their acceptance of lower interest rates, was approved after a 4 1/2-hour hearing by Bankruptcy Judge Hosemary Gambardella. 
The approval came six weeks after the Taj Mahal filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protec­tion from its creditors. 
Most bankruptcies drag on for months or even years. The casino averted that prospect by securing necessary bondholder approvals beforehand. 
The only potential delay was averted late in the afternoon when Dixie-Narco, a Williston, S.C.-based company, settled its claim against the casino. 
The company demanded pay­ment for 1,350 bill-changing machines it supplied the casino. Dixie-Narco contended Trump solicited the bondholders im­properly because he estimated the company's $6 million claim was worthless. 
Attorneys for Dixie-Narco withdrew their objections after reaching a settlement for $2.4 

You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 
...Until the jloodu:aters ofa hurricane rip through town, leaving hundreds homeless. !fyou can't spare some time to help...you ought to be ashamed. 
American+
RedCI"088 
when you have 

<!tlJt New !!Jorl< <!tintc~ 
iulivered on the day of publication 

~-­
million to be paid in increasing installments through December 1994. The casino also will re­turn 500 machines It has stored. 
Trump, who was absent from the hearing, had contended the change machines frequently broke down at the casino's April 1990 opening, dealing the casino a setback it is only now recovering from. 
Henry Hornbostel, senior vice president of finance at the casino, testified Wednesday that bondholders who hold $675 million in notes would receive 
43.4 percent of their money in a liquidation. 
He said the casino's earnings were Improving despite a $14 million loss in the second quar­ter of 1991, compared with a $16.3 million loss in the second quarter of 1990. 
He estimated earnings this year before interest and depre­ciation would total $95 million, compared with the original projection of $104 million. 
Trump's emergence from bankruptcy with the Taj Mahal doesn't end his casino woes. Another of his two properties ­the Trump Castle Casino Hesort -hopes to me by fall a plan similar to the Taj Mahal's to restructure debt-heavy fi­nances. 

page 8 The Observer Thursday, August 29, 1991 
One hostage of ten released in federal prison siege 
TALLADEGA, Ala. (AP) ­Cuban inmates on Wednesday night released one of 10 hostages held eight days in a siege at a federal prison, au­thorities said. 
The inmates released the hostage after meeting with a newspaper reporter, prison of­ficials said in a statement. 
The reporter, Cynthia Corzo of the Spanish-language edition of The Miami Herald, El Nuevo Herald, identified the freed hostage as Kitty Suddeth, a secretary at the Talladega Fed­eral Correctional Institution. The prison officials' statement said the freed hostage needed treatment for diabetes. 
Suddeth's condition wasn't immediately known. 
Corzo said she spoke with the inmates twice by bullhorn and told them she could tell readers their story if they would release all of their hostages. They re­jected the offer, then met with Corzo face-to-face through a grille in front of the besieged 
SECURITY BEAT Sunday, Aug. 25 
11:50 a.m. An injured University employee was transported by Notre 
Dame Security/Police to the Student Health Center. Notre Dame Fire De­partment assisted. 
1:45 p.m. A Morrisey Manor resident reported he lost his wallet. 
3:45 p.m. A University visitor reported minor damage to his parked vehide in the D-2 north lot. 
4:11 p.m. A University em­ployee sustained an ankle 1njury and was transported to St. Joseph's Hos­pital by Notre Dame Security/Police. 
4:30 p.m. A visitor to the Uni­versity reported the loss of his unat­tended walkman and briefcase from the JACC gym 10. 
6:18p.m. Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police and Notre Dame Fire De­partment transported an injured Uni­versity employee from Soutb Dining Hall to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
8:42 p.m. Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police responded to a report of the illegal solicitation of t-shirts in Knott Hall. The suspect, who at­tempted to flee from the officers, was arrested lor resisting law enforce­ment. 
11:15 p.m. Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police escorted a trespasser from Farley Hall. 
Monday, Aug. 26 
10:54 a.m. A University faculty member reported the theft of a portable radio from his Declo Office. 
3:30 p.m. A University facultymember reported the theft of his un­locked bicycle from inside Brownson 
Hall. 
11:00 p.m. Several units of Notre Dame Security/Police re­sponded to a report of numerous persons illegally soliciting magazine subscriptions in Siegfried Hall. Four suspects were issued Trespass No­tices and escorted from campus.
10:20 p.m. Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police rransported a St. Edward's Hall resident from the Eck Pavilion to the Student Health Center. The stu­dent was complaining of a heart prob­lem. 
10:45 p.m. Notre Dame Secu-. rity/Police investigated a studenrs report of an attempted theft from the Knott Hall laundry room. 
Tuesday, Aug. 27 
12:01 a.m. Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police re!lponded to a bicycle ac­cident at St. Maly"s Lake. The victim was transported to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
12:45 
a.m. Two Lyons Hall resi­dents reported receiving harassing phone calls. 

12:45 
a.m. A Knott Hall resident reported the theft of the contents of her recovered purse. 


10:43 a.m. Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police received a report of vandal­ism 1D a statue near St Joe Hall. 
10:511a.m. A University Village resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
11 :34 a.m. Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police responded to the report of an ill employee in the Stepan Chem­istry Building. The employee was transported to St. Joseph s Medical Center by ambulance. 
12:15 p.m. A student reported he lost his C-1 parlling decal on cam­pus. 
1:00 p.m. A University em­ployee reported he lost his wallet on campus 
1:30 p.m. A University faculty member reported the theft of his B-2 parlling decal and a small amount of cash from his unlocked vehicle. 
3:45 p.m. A University faculty member reported the theft of her B-2 parking decal from unlocked cer. 
4:30 p.m. A Knott Hall resident reported she lost her D-2 parking de­cal. 

maximum-security "Alpha" unit. The inmates then released the hostage. 
"More than one did say they want a peaceful resolution as soon as possible," Corzo told Miami television station WPLG. "They did not make any threats to the hostages, and they indi­cated that all the hostages were fme." 
At a news conference at the 

· prison, Corzo said the inmates demanded a permanent end to all deportations of Cubans. She said they also want to meet with Atlanta attorney Gary Leshaw, who played a role in negotiations four years ago during a Cuban inmates' upris­ing in Atlanta, and Coretta Scott King, widow of civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. Inmates seized Talladega's "Alpha" unit on Aug. 21. The unit contains 121 Cubans among the thousands who came to the United States in the 1980 Marie! boatlift. Thirty-two were scheduled to be sent back to Cuba last Thursday, the day after the takeover began. The unit also contains 18 non­Cuban inmates and the nine remaining hostages -seven 
men and two women who work at the prison. 
The inmates and hostages apparently had little food left, but a sign inmates held on the unit's roof Wednesday morning said a meal is not their main objective. 
"We aren't hungry for food but freedom," the sign said. 
Two of the rebellious inmates set up the sign and one waved a Cuban flag. The words of an­other sign couldn't be seen clearly. Repo.rters are kept more than a half-mile from the hostage site and can see the signs only through strong tele­photo lenses. 
Bedsheet banners raised on the roof Tuesday evening pointed to a lack of adequate nourishment as a growing con­cern. 
"We have not been fed for a week," read one. "The hostages are dying due to the lack of food." 
As those signs were raised, inmates began hurling objects at employees below, Warden Roger Scott said. Prison per­sonnel responded by throwing several "non-lethal percussive smoke cannisters,ft driving sev­eral inmates off the roof, he 
C>l991 Hewlett-P•dcardCornpony PG12102B 

More and more PhDs across the country are recommending Hewlett­Packard financial and scientific calculators to their students. And for some very strong reasons. 
"The HP 48SX Scientific Expandable has powerful graphics tools that are remarkably helpful to students learn­ing mathematical concepts. And with the equation solv~r feature, it's. excellent for applying mathematics to engineering;• according to Dr. William Rahmeyer, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Utah State University. 
"The HP Business Consultant II has an equation solver and extensive said. No shots were fired, he said. 
Scott also he had no indica­tion that snacks stockpiled by inmates before the takeover had run out. He said the in­mates have not requested any­thing to eat since the siege be­gan. 
Dan Dunne, a spokesman for the U.S. Bureau of Prisons, also said water to the unit hasn't been turned off and that medi­cation was given to two de­tainees and one hostage. 
The Cubans were ordered de­ported after committing crimes in the United States. Some say they would rather die than he sent back to President Fidel Castro's island. Others say they have been denied justice in this country. 
Among the banners raised on the roof: "Please media, justice, freedom or death," "We love you. Pray please," and "We want the world to know." 
Officials have said freedom isn't possible for the Cubans. Negotiators haven't discussed the substance of negotiations, except to say that an attempt was made Tuesday to gain the release of those who require medical attention. 
Scott said some of the 121 
"can be considered among the 
most difficult, aggressive, vio­
lent and incorrigible inmates 
ever held by the Bureau of Pris­
ons." 
He said the group includes 
"highly sophisticated prisoners, 
some of whom have spent years 
in Cuban prisGns before coming 
to the U.S., where they likewise 
have spent years in prison." 
He said 31 of the Cubans at 
Talladega took part in 1987 
uprisings in which 136 hostages 
were seized at federal prisons 
in Atlanta and Oakdale, La. 
The warden said that 
although the U.S. government 
"has gone to unparalleled 
lengths to ensure due process 
and the fair and comprehensive 
nature of reviews for these and 
other Cuban detainees, the cur­
•rent hostage-takers assert that the Oakdale-Atlanta distur­bances did not achieve enough for Cuban detainees." 
Negotiations have been con­ducted since the takeover, but Scott said Tuesday's round was the first formal face-to-face discussions. He wouldn't an­swer any questions about the result of the talks or any other matter. 
math functions. These free the stu­dents from computational tedium so they can think and interact on a higher level;' says Dr. Lee V. Stiff, a professor of math education at North Carolina State University. 
So go check out the HP calculator lin~ at your college bookstore or HP retailer. You'll agree, there's no faster relieffrom the pain of tough problems. 
HP calculators. The best for your success. 
FJ/Pfj HEWLETT 
a:~ PACKARD 
r 
Business 
Thursday, August 29, 1991 page9 
Economy declines 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
nation's economy continued to 
decline in the April-June quar­
ter, the government said 
Wednesday, dampening many 
economists' hope that the re­
cession ended during the pe­
riod. 
In an advance estimate, the 
government had said last 
month that the gross national 
product grew at a 0.4 percent 
annual rate in the second quar­
ter. But that was revised in the 
Commerce Department's latest 
report to a slight, inflation-ad­
justed 0.1 percent decline. 
Economist Lawrence A. 
Hunter of the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce likened the economy 
to "a wounded duck bumping 
alo?,g trying to get off the wa­
ter. 
"Today's downward revision 
.... should shatter any remain­
ing illusion of an economic re­
covery," Hunter said. "We are 
almost certain to see economic 
stagnation continue into the 
foreseeable future." 
It was the third consecutive negative quarter, following de­clines at a 2.8 percent rate in the first quarter and at a 1.6 percent rate in the last three months of 1990. 
The large and unexpected re­vision to second quarter GNP prompted some economists to declare either that the reces­sion hasn't ended or that the economy will lapse into a "double-dip" recession after a brief revival. 
"I think the economy is in re­
cession and is going to stay 
there untq next year," said 
Robert Brusca of Nikko Securi­
ties International Co. Inc. 
However, President Bush, 
when asked about the economy 
during a golf outing in Kenneb­
unkport, Maine, said, "I feel all 
right about things. There's 
some statistics up and some 
down, but basically I think it's 
doing all right." 
The Commerce Department attributed the revision to weaker-than-expected produc­tion of goods for inventories and a more modest gain in con­sumer spending than first thought. 
The first change, on invento­ries, could turn out to be a fa­vorable development for the economy. Lean Inventories mean any pickup in sales will quickly translate into Increased production at factories and eventually into more jobs. 
However, the 2.8 percent growth in consumer spending, instead of the 3.6 percent growth estimated earlier, was viewed more seriously, even though the department at­tributed some of it to a shift of automobile purchases from the consumer sector to the business sector. 
Consumer spending repre­sents two-thirds of all economic activity and its revival is considered the key l.o any last­ing economic recovery. 
NEW YORK (AP) -The comic news. Things happen slowly In strip character Blondie is about cartoon-land, which may ex­to leave the archaic world of plain why Blondle still has a suburban bridge games and knockout figure and no wrin­full-time homemaking for a kles and Cookie and her brother much more common pursuit: Alexander are still teenagers. work. The story of Blondie's foray 
"This is the biggest thing to into the workaday world begins happen to Blondie since the unfolding on Labor Day, just birth of Cookie Bumstead back days before the strip begins its in '42," said cartoonist Dean 61st year. Young. Today, "Blondie" is one of the 
Never mind the fact that most widely syndicated of all working women are hardly big comics, running in more than 2,000 newspapers In 55 languages. 
Sending Blondle off to work will cause a lot of changes in the Bumstead household. "Dagwood's going to have a lit­tle trouble with it in the begin­ning," Young said. "There's going to be some psychological changes for everybody in the family, Including the dog Daisy. The kids are old enough now though that they'll be able to accept it." 

JUNIORS 
Interested in organizing our 1nost important ~eekend of the year??? 
Applications for JPW CHAIRPERSON are available at the Lafortune Information Desk 
Experience not necessary, but initiative is. 
Curious? Pick up an application today. 
DEADLINE: 5:00 Monday, Sept. 2nd. 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, August 29,1991 


"WW\1' RfaSSION?" 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

American administration may have deceived the world in Gulf War 
Dear Editor: 
"The American Administra­

tion wanted Iraq to invade Kuwait." 
As a high school guidance counselor, I am well aware of how suspect a person is who thinks that he or she has heard a direct message from the Eternal God. Nevertheless, I have concluded that this is pre­cisely what I experienced ap­proximately one month after Iraq invaded Kuwait. It is obvi­ous that there are potential psychological explanations of my experience, which may pre­clude belief in a Supreme Being. Yet, I remain convinced that for the Eternal's own reasons, He personally spoke to a blundering but sincere 
individual this important moral and political message. It is relevant to emphasize that 
DOONESBURY 
/1)()/(, PANO, I fAJWWNi 6/JT 700 
fiiJRI<l30 UPABOUT 7HI~. HAI.F Tf{g caJN'TRY{1JJtO ~1&6 
IF YOU USIW POTOR NOT.' 

l I 
8~1 
previous to the statement, "The American Administration wanted Iraq to invade Kuwait," being suddenly and emphatically spoken deep inside my being, I had never be­fore even considered the possi­bility that the U.S. Administra­tion had calculatedly intended for Iraq to invade Kuwait. 
The significant reality is not whether God spoke this mes­sage. Rather, the real issue is whether its content is basically true. Of course, if its source was God, it is true, and not only the American people have been deceived but also the interna­tional community has been ar­rogantly misled by U.S. leaders. In that case, American leaders have not only set Americans against the world community, but our deception has also put us in the position of opposing the Living God. 
It is horrible that U.S. lead­ership would deceive the U.N., Congress, the news media, the American people and the entire world community. It is severely alarming that the American leadership appears to have made a mockery of the clear in­tent of the United States Con­stitution by manipulating Congress to sanction massive violence against Iraq. Yet, it is more ominous that we, the American people, would con­tinue to allow ourselves to be manipulated and deceived due to our own passivity and unwill­ingness to do the work of ex­posing deception. 
Tom Griffith Seattle, Wash. Aug. 24, 1991 

benefit, as well as for the benefits of others, so please participate in them. You may become involved in any num­ber of them by attending Activities Night on Sept. 5 at 8 
p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. Representatives from all organizations will be there to answer questions and to enlist new members. Please take advantage of this event and use it as a way to become involved. 
Another method of involve­ment is communication and participation with student gov­ernment in its efforts to seek out ways to improve campus life. I am sure you are aware 
at Board of Governance meetings on Mondays at 5 
p.m. in Haggar 304. These also provide an opportunity for Student Government to deal with issues that concern 
you. 
Student participation is nec­essary in order for us to reach our full potential. Please con­tribute in the method that suits you best. 
Maureen A. Lowry Student Body President Meg McGowan Vice-President for Student Activities Colleen Rhattigan Vice-President for Academic Affairs August 27, 1991 
Have something to say? Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
THt HALF THAT'S USW fT.I NO, IT'S THt HYF'()(;RJ~Y THAT~fOti<S, llANO.' 8aJZI3 AAJO ~KJ~,..t,. HUNlJRel)S CF-THCVSIWI?S W01<Y YeAR! /XJeGPOTf' NOPE3-8UT 
YOU '3Pf3Nf) BIUIOOS TR.YING 
70$!Rll?OF IT! 

THAT's AU Vti<Y /AJ£:1../..., BUT AS 7HE3AIR-APPAR£NT, I CAN'T 
HAV/3 !JVEW A IAIHIFF OF f;CAN­
YJ.t.ON M8 ORMY tAPUS.' tAPaS~ /?II? I SAY tAPUS~ t------~ OR 010 YOU St!Y ITr N8V/3R MIN[). ,.-_---... atHAT's 601NG 
--==-\ ON~ 
'One of the symptoms of an approaching nervous breakdown is the belief that one's work is terribly important.' 
Bertrand Russel 
Accent 


Thursday, August 29, 1991 
Peace on earth 
Visitors to Medjugorje witness the living message~; of Mary 
Editor's Note: There are many One night I happened to chose the best ones. We're just conflicting opinions on the glance at the cover of a book normal; not the best, not the my brother was reading. It was worst," lvanka later explained. 
experience of Medjugorje. 
this book, "Medjugorje the Mirjana, finally closer to un­
Reporter Meredith McCullough 
Message" by Wayne Weible, derstanding, continued, "The
visited there this summer. and 
that really got me excited about six of us are all different in
these are her thoughts. 
my upcoming trip. character and behavior, she By MEREDITH Weible interested me because needed us the way we were." he came across as such a nor­In the 10 years that have
MCCULLOUGH 
mal guy, a Lutheran journalist passed, the children, as they
Accent Writer 
who found himself in the middle are sometimes still called, have of the events in Medjugmje. undergone many hardships. 
"Do you believe in miracles?" 
His story didn't sound Spreading Mary's message in
a recent issue of Life magazine 
fanatical or farfetched, but a country with an atheistic,
asked il'i readers. 

interestingly inviting, a.nd he communist government has not
Do you believe that the 
provided me with the been easy. 
Blessed Virgin Mary, the Mother 
background informatiolll that I Nor has trying to overcome
of God could choose to appear 
needed. the skepticism of the
to a average group of young 
In the summer of 1981, six government, of scientific­
children from a remote village 
Croatian youths, ranging in minded individuals, and even of
in central Yugoslavia with 
ages from 10 to 16, reported many members of the religious
messages of peace and 
seeing visions of the Virgin community (including the
conversion for the whole world? 
Mary on a hillside near their Bishop of their diocese). 
Do you believe that she has 
homes. They have undergone exten­
appeared-for ten years 
The visions, they claim, sive mental and physical test­
now-and is still appearing to 
continued day after day, gaining ing. A local priest, Father Jozo 
this day? 
intensity as Our Lady spoke to Zovko, who gave them aid was
Fascinating questions for be­
these children and gave them imprisoned for three years. 
lievers and skeptics alike. 
messages for the world. Still, the messages have sur­
Challenging questions that 
Ivanka lvankovic, 16, was the vived, accepted by more and
have led four and a half million 
first to see the Madonna. She more people every day. They
people to the village of 
and her friend Mirjana are simple and straightforward, 
Medjugorje-some to find an­
Dragicevic, 15, had gone for a acting as a loving reminder of
swers, others to enjoy what the 
walk to talk and to smoke when God's presence and place in our
village and its children have to 
lvanka, startled by a flash of lives.
offer. 
light, noticed the silhouette of a "/ come to lead you to peace
Toward the end of last year's 
young woman with a child in and to bring you peace. " 
second semester my mother 
her arms on top of a rocky hill. "Pray that you can love and
approached me with a plan. She 
At first Mirjana did not be­therefore overcome tiredness
and my 1 7 -year-old brother had 
lieve that her friend had seen and every other type of obsta­
decided to visit Medjugorje 
"Gospa" (Croatian for "the cle."
during the approaching sum­
Blessed Virgin Mary") and she 7hrough prayer you can stop
mer; did I want to join them? 
reportedly said, "Corne on, wars .. . and change the course
To be honest, when I told her 
lvanka, who are you ofnature."
yes, I knew very little about the 
kidding-why would Our Lady "Dear children! Today I am
village and the reported visions. 
come to us? We're nobody." calling you to give me your
I wasn't sure that I believed the 
But she had come. heart so I can change it to be
reports. 
After a series of visits to this like mine... " 
Still. I felt that if I didn't go I 
same hill, Vicka Ivankovic (not Through such messages, Our
would be missing a rare 
related to Ivanka), 17, Marija Lady has revealed to the chil­
opportunity to spend needed 
Pavlovic, 17, Ivan Dragicevic dren her plan for acliievlng
time with my family. 
(not related to Mirjana), 16, and peace. She calls each individual
I spen · the few weeks ques­
Jakov Colo, 10, all began to to conversion, faith, prayer and
tioning w'1at I had gotten myself 
share in these visionary experi­penance.
into. Why were so many people 
ences. In addition to the daily mes­
affected b: Medjugorje? What 
Mirjana's confusion at why sages, Mary has begun to
was going O'l there? 
Mary had picked her was also gradually reveal 10 secrets
"/ have come to tell you that 
shared by the other children. concerning the future of the
God exists and that he loves 
"Our Lady said she never world. These secrets emphasize
you.." 


the urgency of Mary's appear­ances; she wants all her chil­dren to heed her loving warning and work for peace. 
Only two of the visionaries, Ivanka and Mirjana, have re­ceived all 10 secrets (the others have received nine); however, they are not to share them with anyone until the prescribed time. 
When that time comes, a visible sign will appear on the sight of the appearances. 
Although the secrets are heavy, one cannot lose hope. The seventh secret has been erased because of prayer and fasting, according to the vi­sionaries. 
Visiting Medjugorje was like entering into a living expression of Mary's messages. The village was spiritually alive-in the church, in the fields, on the hilltops. 
At the time of our arrival, guides informed us that the number of pilgrims in Medjugorje was substantially lower than in the past, probable due to the threat of civil war. Still, it was amazing to me how many people had made the trip. 
Our group was comprised of 15 people from different parts of the United States. There was a family from Houston, Texas which included a nine-year-old and a 13-year-old; an older family from southern California; a group of individuals from Scottsdale, Arizona; and my own family. 
Each person was different. Each person brought a different perspective and had a different reaction to our stay in Medjugorje. We all learned from each other. 
Our group was lead by two students of the University of Arizona. Both had made four trips to Medjugorje and insisted that each trip brought new ex­periences. 
Thanks to their connections, our group was actually able to stay at Mirjana Dragicevic's home. Located at the foot of Podbrdo or "Apparition Hill" and on the same street as Jacov's and Ivan's home, we couldn't have asked for a better 
page 11 
spot. 

On top of that, we were In constant contact with Mirjana. She served us food, talked about her experiences, and let us play with her baby girl. 
In the mornings we took a 15 minute walk through the vine­yards to a daily Mass at the St. James parish. 
We were told that our walk to the church followed the same path that the visionaries took as they ran from the police. 
Although Mass is very impor­tant to the people of Medjugorje, I found that I got more out of the walks through the village and hikes to the top of Podbrdo. From the hill one has a real sense of God's pres­ence. 
On the hike, one can almost always hear the hum of some­one, somewhere, heartfully praying the rosary in his or her own tongue. Though I had never actually prayed a rosary before, I learned to appreciate this beautiful prayer. 
The article that appeared in Life ma11azine was a success in that it told of the events taking place in Medjugorje; however, our group agreed that the ar­ticle placed too much emphasis on the "so-called miracles" that have been reported. 
After reading the article it seems like everyone who visits there is running around looking for the spinning sun, figures in the clouds, or physical healing. 
This was not the case. 
Medjugorje denoted a feeling of calm, a feeling of peace. It was a spiritual retreat of sorts-a reminder of what has to be done on an everyday basis at home. Nobody needed rosaries to turn gold to tell us that. 
Medjugorje was a comfort. God exists and he loves us; Mary cares for all of us and wants us to grow in love. 
"You see," said Mirjana, "the six of us in this parish are not her only children, but the whole world. She cries for unbeliev­ers, she begs us to pray for them because everyone in the world is her child." 

Phelps among those dedicating basketball stamp 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. (AP) ­Basketball's 100th anniversary was celebrated Wednesday as the U.S. Postal Service issued a commemorative stamp in the same city where James Naismith first tacked up his peach baskets in 1891. 
An eclectic mix of several hundred stamp enthusiasts and basketball fans gathered at the Basketball Hall of Fame for the ceremonies and lined up to get first-day cancellations auto­graphed by Hall of Famers and postal executives. 
"This is a great day for me because I am a sports fan," said Michael S. Coughlan, deputy postmaster general. 
Tickets 
continued from p. 20 

perforated sheets, but rather in booklets. The change in format is intended not only to reduce illicit sales of student tickets, but also to provide security with better means of control over rowdy behavior. 
"The booklet will be about the size of the plastic I.D. holders," said Cunningham. "It will con­tain tickets to all six games, but the tickets themselves are not printed with the student's seat location, which appears on the 
"Basketball is something spe­cial to us as it is to the world," Coughlan said. "If it is not yet, basketball will soon replace soccer as the world's game." 
Former Notre Dame Coach Digger Phelps, who also serves on the Postal Service's Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee, said, "No other sport has brought people together around the world as much as basketball." 
More than 30 other countries have joined the U.S. in issuing commemorative basketball stamps since the centennial cel­ebrations began here in January with a game between Notre Dame and the Soviet na­
cover of the booklet. 

"The old student tickets con­fused many alumni and friends who though that they were buying legitimate tickets. Also, I think that students will be less likely to sell their tickets be­cause they may not get their booklets back. We will be able to trace tickets from a seat to a name, and names can be given to the Office of Student Affairs in cases of unruly behavior or ticket scalping." 
To gain admittance to games, students will be required to present their J.D. cards as well as their entire ticket booklet, tiona! team, said Joe O'Brien, executive director of the Basketball Hall of Fame. 
The basketball shrine is the only sports hall of fame to in­clude a former postmaster gen­eral. The late Larry O'Brien, a Springfield native who served as postmaster general, head of the Democratic National Committee and NBA commis­sioner, was inducted this spring. 
The 29-cent stamp shows two hands above the basket as one player attempts a dunk and an­other defends. Phelps insisted that the artist Lon Busch of Ellisville, Mo., did not mean to depict a goaltending foul. 
In the American game, how-
without which entry to games will be denied. Tickets which have been removed from their booklets will be considered in­valid. 
While students have already been observed camping outside the ticket office, Cunningham cautions that sleeping out may not necessarily translate into seats on the 50-yard line. 
"It's important to know that getting out there early does not guarantee that your seat will be what you expect it to be," warned Cunningham. "We fill ever, a defending player cannot reach over the rim to bat the ball out of the basket. 
But "it's legal under interna­tional rules," Phelps said. 
Doris Alden of Springfield, Naismith's grand niece, had a front-row seat. 
"I wouldn't have missed this for anything," she said of the man who took her to her first basketball game. 
Springfield College academic dean and former basketball coach Adelaide Titus said bas­ketball was born when Naismith, an instructor at the college, needed a new game to maintain discipline in a rowdy class of future YMCA gym in-
sections from the bottom to the top, so you may be in Row 60 of Section 28 instead of Row 1 of Section 29. 
"You can't pick and choose your seating situation, so some people may be dissatisfied with their seats. Every student who wants a seat will get one, and all the students of a particular class year will be in relatively the same area." 
Finally, a minimum of 200 student tickets will be available at the JACC ticket office for road games against Michigan structors. 
"Naismith's charge was to come up with a competitive game like football or lacrosse that could be played indoors ... a game requiring skill and sportsmanship, and providing exercise for the whole body, yet one which can be played with­out extreme roughness or damage to players," Titus said. 
College janitor James W. Stebbins couldn't find the boxes Naismith wanted as goals, but came up with a pair of peach baskets. 
The first game was played on Dec. 21, 1891. 
and Purdue. Lotteries will be conducted by the Student Activities Committee. All gen­eral admission tickets for home games have been sold, but GA's remain for road contests at Purdue and Stanford. 
General admission tickets may be charged to either MasterCard or Visa, although student season tickets may only be paid for by check or cash. The cost for Purdue GA's is $18, while Stanford GA's cost $22. Students may purchase up to six (6) GA's apiece for either game. 
The Observer accepts classffieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3p.rn at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classWieds Is 3p.m. All class~ieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge Is 2 cents per character per day, including all spacea. 
VCR, TV Rentals: Room for rent in new home. MUST HAVE INDIANA TIXI!II Call NEED 1 St. TX. lor MICH St. Anention 1990-91 A. Weigert CORE Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters located in Granger, 7 minutes Steve x2366 CAN TRADE 1PITI OR CLASS: it's true, the reunions haveNOTICES only $9g.9s. from campus. $350 per month, PURCHASE. Kathy x3958 begun. We're firing up for another 
13" color TV, two semesters only male graduate student I NEED 2 IU TIX BADLY softball game this FRIDAY USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIIII $69.95. preferred. Please call Andy CALL BILL -4186 Please help. Need 2 tickets afternoon, same place as last year. 25% oH list price VCR, two semesters, $99.95. or leave message at 271-to IU game. GA or student And if we're really nice. Max will let 10-5:30 everyday For fast free delivery, call 8162. NEED TENNESSEE GA TIX. or both. Call Ann 4011. us chow at her oH-campus pad Pandora's Books corner of ND COLLEGIATE RENTALS Please help east coast double afterward. Feel free to bring ave &Ha.vard 272-5959. domer bring his family to an Irish I NEED GA TIX: 4 INDIANA; 6 others-the more the merrier. Call 
FOR SALE victory. Call Sam at MICHIGAN STATE. DAVE x283-RaH or Monica for details. SEE YOU FURNISHED ROOM. AIR. (201) 334-3804. 1545 THERE\ 
STEAM CLEAN YOUR CARPET KITCHEN, PHONE, PRIVATE Couch and furniture for sale. Get out those stains and storage ENTRANCE, UTILITIES 287-0060 I NEED 3 GA TIX FOR USC. CALL THE METHA-TONES ... LIVE I mildew. INCLUDED. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN. ANNA x284-5432. A dose of Lou Reed and a lot morel $10-You do. $20-We do. 272-0615. COMPUTER DESK-$160. GA. CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR Sat. Aug 31 CLUB 23 Call x1541 or x3565 2 TWIN MATIRESS SETS-$40 PURCHASE. CALL COLLECT 1-I'M BUYING I.U. STUD. TIX Call 
STUDENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO EACH 612-227-7577. John x3660 hey nit 
GARAGE SALE ND. Efficiencies & one-bdrm. 1 FULL MATIRESS SET -$60 2010 Beverly Place Utilities paid. Call 255-9664. WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY ND ATIENTION ACCENT STAFF: SATURDAY, August 31st. 258-5201 HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL PERSONAL That means you, 8:00-5:00. RENT ME COLLECT 215-355-7,31 RON. Gerry Hamilton 
PROFESSIONALLY BUILT I am the Lizard King and I can do Meredith McCullough Spacious 5 bedroom house in safe STUDENT LOFT $50. NOTRE DAME anything. John Fisher Lost and Found area. Beach V-ball court, private REFRIGERATOR $40. TICKETS WANTED Laurie Sessa parking lot. Close to campus. Semi-289-8404. 271-1371 $$$$ Shonda Wilson 
FOUND: POCKET CALCULATOR furnished. Need GA's to all home games. and Paige Smoron IN MAIN BUILDING. CALL LYN 234-3831 or 288-5653. Rug. neutral 6x8, $50; Electronic NOTRE DAME TICKETS have extra Purdue tix. Since you're reading this, that 239-7367. typewriter, $65; dinene table, $50; FOR SALE. Call Tom x1563 means you know that the paper has 
3 BEDROOM HOME maple rocking chair, $40; 239-7160, CALL 271-1371. started. GET OFF YOUR DARN LOST: GOLD I.D. BRACELET 913 LAWRENCE 287-6714. Happy birthday Joe Roberts. BOOTIES AND CALL ME SO WE REWARD;SENTIMENTAL VALUE $500 DEPOSIT, $555 MONTH IU TICKETS'? I need them in a big CAN GET STARTED ON THE CALL USA 4838 #352 SIEGFRIED 232-3616 MATCHING SET: SOFA, CHAIR, way. Call 283-4098. ATIENTION: STUDENTS! BEST~AMN YEAR EVER I RAH ROCKER, COFFEE TABLE. END $5.50 HAIRCUTS RAH RAH, WOO WOO. Wubba NICE FURNISHED ROOMS, TABLE. $125. CALL CAROL, 272-Wubba Wubba.WANTED GOOD AREA, CLOSE TO ND. 3273 OR 277-8000. NEED: 8 GA's for Indiana game VITO'S BARBER SHOP Love, Herbie 
277-3097. Will pay big $$$11 Call X1076 1523 LINCOLNWAY. WEST Downtown book warehouse now Macintosh IICX. 5Mb RAM, 20 Mb 233-4767 INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. hiring . Send name, add., phone#, 4 or 5 Bedrm furnished house, HD. 1.44Mb HDFD, Radius NEEDED: Walk ins Good rates. Save Money. Call me yr./major, washer/dryer, sand volleyball, 119 Monochrome Full Page Display, 2 GA's for IU game for a quote 9:30-6:00, hours /days available to: N. St. Peter. 233-9947. Software available, 6 months old. call 272-8735 289-1993. Office near campus. 
P. 0. Box 4621 • South Bend IN Must sell today\!\ $3,000. 272.{)615 ask for Shannon DJs wantedl\1111 46624 MALE ROOMMATE WANTED FOR evenings, 299-5601 days. Ask for Student Activities is hiring Happpy Birthday, Horndog. 
HOUSE SOUTH OF TOWN. 10 Bob. $$$$$$$$ DJs for Theodore's. Any Love ya lots, Nerd. BABYSmER NEEDED N.D. MINS. TO CAMPUS. I'M GONE 6 interested students should HOME GAMES -OTHER MISC. MONTHS IN YEAR. CALL RICK 2 TEN SPEED BIKES.272-6306 I WANT TO GIVE YOU MONEY... stop by 315 LaFortune and Lou Reed's favorite ND band TIMES AVAILABLE. $4+1HR. 291-8155 EVE.; for your IU tix. THE META-TONES ... LIVE! 234-2354. DAY 259-2302, LV. NAME & Used Computers: Need GA's or students. pick up an application. Club 23 Sat. Aug 31. 
NUMBE A ONLY. Mac Plus/2dd/pr X1236 
Apple llgs w/Works SENIORS! SENIORS! REGISTER CATH, GOLF SHOP AT LOCAL PRIVATE ROOM FOR RENT -LARGE HOME Laptop 386 wlhd $$$$$$$$ FOR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS Try to beat the heat on your COUNTRY CLUB NEEDS PART-2.5 BLKS FROM ND, $290 MO. Man (x1778) or John (277-2176) TODAY, TOMORROW, 20TH 8-DAY: jump oH a bridge!!\ TIME HELP, PREFERABLE UTIL. INCL. 234-0873. WANTED TO BUY: SEPTEMBER 3, SEPTEMBER 4. Have a great day II\ MORNING HOURS. CALL CHAD student ticket applications. CAREER AND PLACEMENT Loveya, AT 282-3727 FOR MORE INFO. NEAR ND-Quaint furnished apts. TICKETS x1236 SERVICES. Lis 
1 bedrm $260, 755 South Bend Ave. I NEED GA OR STD TIXS ALL if you're not using your ftbl tix appl. SENIORS! SENIORS\ REGISTER
FOR RENT 

2 bedrm $360, 607 E. Corby. HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306 I'll buy it\ fred @ 2322 FOR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. If you build it, they will comet 
dep. ref. 1-800-582-9320 TODAY. TOMORROW, If you build it, they will cornell 2 BEDROOM ON ND 1 TICKET NEEDED FOR SEPTEMBER 3, SEPTEMBER 4. If you build it, they will cornell I AVE.FURNISHED.272-6306 FOR RENT-605 N. St. Peter, 5 INDIANA GAME. CALL Need G.A.s for Indiana and CAREER AND PLACEMENT If you build it, they will cornell II 
Bedroom, 1.5 bath, furnished for 3-COLLEEN AT 4244. Michigan St. Money no object. Call SERVICES. 
HOME AWAY FROM HOME! 6.$135 moJeach +share utilities. Ron x2157 2 ROOMS TO RENT, $250/MO., Elmer 288-8341,288-3942. WANTED: SENIOR TICKET hiag $250 DEP. KITCHEN, LAUNDRY APPLICATION. YOU WILL PROFIT I need INDIANA G.A. Tix JOHN FISCHER, WHERE THE FACILITIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. B & B available near ND on football $80. CALL 289-4914. for Alum $$$$ & friends HECK ARE YOU? If you have any 232-2794. weekends. 271-0989. X1224 intention of working lor The CATHERINE\ 
NEEDED BAD: 2 or 4 GA's for Observer this year, you should call THE BIG 2-01 
2 BDRMS, $1701t.10., $200/MO. House for rent, one block from ND. the Indiana game. Will pay NEEDED: Two GA tickets to Pitt Herbie at the office by Friday or HAPPY BIRTHDAY WOMAN\ WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL professors, stall, or graduates, 650 top dollarll! Call #3372 ask game. Parents will pay well! Call your job will be given away. ILOVEYAI 287-2159. month, 234-1714 for Greg. Tim@ X4063 LOVE, COL 
...... , l ., 

Thursday, August 29, 1991 The Observer page 13 
McEnroe makes 2nd round of Open No. 2 Seles advances in women's tournament play 
NEW YORK (AP) -John amateur athletes -with one Americans. Maybe It would McEnroe wants to crown his qualification. keep some kids from turning career with Olympic gold -in "Is It all right If I stay with my pro as early as they did. Maybe tennis or basketball If Michael wife and kids there too?" he some sort of incentive. Jordan doesn't want to play. asked, unsure how difficult it "Now that everyone is playing 
McEnroe, looking ahead to might be to get credentials for and it has become sort of ac­retirement, said Wednesday wife Tatum O'Neal and their cepted for tennis, as well as he's changed his mint~ about three children. basketball, and maybe even professionals playing in the McEnroe said he can't under­some other sports, now I have Olympics and would love to join stand athletes who don't want changed my tune." the U.S. team at Barcelona next to play In the Olympics. Goran Ivanisevic, who beat summer. "If Jordan doesn't want to fellow Croatian Goran Prpic 6­
wit's going to be the last year, play, I am available for the 1, 6-3, 6-4, said he would never probably, that I am going to be basketball, too," said McEnroe, play for ethnically torn playing a full schedule, and I'd who frequently attends NBA Yugoslavia in the Olympics or like to be a part of the games. anywhere else. Olympics," McEnroe said after "I am finished with the winning his second-round . McEnroe didn't always feel so Yugoslavian Davis Cup team," match in the U.S. Open, 6-3, 6-strongly about playing in the said Ivanisevic, the 12th seed in 4, 6-2 against Martin Olympics. He said he had mixed the Open. ''I'm never going to Laurendeau. feelings about it in 1988, when play for Yugoslavia anymore. I 
"It Is not going to feel as he struck a deal with the men's will play only for Croatia." strange, now that professional tour after missing a year. He He acknowledged, though, basketball players are coming. I had missed so many tourna­that "it could be a long time" am definitely going to try to do ments that he had to play a before Croatia has its own Davis my best to get in." couple around the time of the Cup team. 
McEnroe would no doubt Olympics. liven up the tennis scene at "In a way, I was forced to play On a muggy, languid after­Barcelona. He's barely been those tournaments in order not noon Wednesday after a bril­tested In the Open so far, but to have to make up other liant night of shooting stars he's already been slapped with tournaments, or be fined or with Jimmy Connors coming verbal abus9 and audible ob­face additional tournaments the back from two sets down to scenity violations. follo\¥ing year," he said. "So, in beat Patrick McEnroe, most of 
McEnroe feels that all the a sense, It was like striking a the seeds advanced without years he put In playing for the deal. It was, at that point, the much difficulty. 
U.S. Davis Cup team should lesser of two evils. weigh In his favor for a spot on "And also, at that point, I 
Guy Forget, No. 7, was thethe Olympic squad, even If his guess I was sort of a tradition­
exception, losing to Jan
ranking Isn't as high as some alist In the sense that I felt like Siemerink 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, 7-6 (8­other Americans. maybe it should be the best 
6).

He'd even like to stay In the amateurs playing. It would be a 
AP!Martha P. Hernandez Olympic Village with all the springboard for the best 
Torretta confident in job as 'Canes starting QB 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) -nod over third-year sophomore is riding on your shoulders," Frank Costa. back. I'm ready to plliy. 'i·m Gino Torretta can sound hum­Bryan Fortay, who then quit the Torretta said. Fortay felt he was the best pretty anxious to get out there ble and cocky In the same team and transferred to Saturday's start will not be quarterback in practice, and and get this over with." breath as he becomes accus­Rutgers. Torretta's first at Miami. In Torretta admitted he hasn't tomed to his role as the Miami Wit's a shame to see him leave. 1989 he led Miami to three wins thrown the ball well this month. Erickson offered another Hurricanes' starting quarter­He's a good friend of mine," in four games as a fill-in for an In two scrimmages, he com­reason for Torretta's recent back. Torretta said. injured Craig Erickson. Against pleted 18 of 44 passes for 185 passing problems: a blister on 
wl'm only one person of 11 on As the successor to Jim Kelly, San Jose State, Torretta threw yards with one touchdown and the index finger of his throwing the offensive team," Torretta Bernie Kosar, Vinny Testaverde, for a school-record 468 yards. four Interceptions. hand. said. "But I'm going to be the Steve Walsh and Craig "I think I showed 'em two "I could've played a lot bet­leader. And I'm going to lead Erickson, Torretta is aware of years ago that I have the tools," ter," he said. "With two-a-days "It was so bad, I don't know the offense to touchdowns and the job's high-profile demands. he said. "And I think I'm going you get kind of tired. You aren't how he even threw the ball," wins." They begin Saturday when the to show It this year." concentrating as much as I the coach said. "I knew about It, 
The fourth-year junior from thlra-ranked Hurricanes open But with Fortay gone, second­should have. nobody else knew about It, and Pinole, Calif., won the starting at Arkansas. guessing will be more intense if it affected him. Now that blister job last week when coach "Being the quarterback at the Torretta fails. The new backup "As soon as the season starts, I Is completely cleared up, and Dennis Erickson gave him the University of Miami, everything is a second-year freshman, think everything will come you can see the difference." 
American Heart ft Association ~ 
COME JOIN THE FUN AT THE ANNUAL 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
SEPTEMBER 3.. 1gg 1 
10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. 10:00_a.m. to 5:00p.m.
JACC FIELDHOUSE 
7:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m. 
10:00 
a.m. to 6:45 p.m. 

10:00 
a.m. to 6:45p.m. 


SPONSORED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE,CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 

Register Today! 
... 

Career and Placement Services 
• 

The Observer Thursday, August 29, 1991
page 14 

Phillies beat Astros 11-10 for 16th straight home win 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Charlie Hayes, who hit a grand slam in the first inning, capped a three-run rally in the lOth as Philadelphia outlasted Houston for its 16th straight home vic­tory. 
With the Astros ahead 10-8, Dickie Thon led off the Phillies' lOth with a double off reliever Al Osuna (7 -4) and Wes Chamberlain followed with a single to put runners on first and third. John Kruk hit a sac­rifice fly, and after Dale Murphy doubled, Darren Daulton tied the score with another sac fly. Hayes then greeted Dwayne Henry with his game-winning hit. 
Ken Caminti had a career­high five RBls for Houston. 
Braves 3, Mets 1 

ATLANTA -Tom Glavine pitched a four-hitter to become the major league's first 17­game winner and drove in the go-ahead run Wednesday night as the surging Atlanta defeated New York 3-1. 
Glavine (17 -8), pitching with a heavily-taped right ankle which he sprained in his last start, struck out four and walked one for his eighth complete game. He retired 16 of the last 17. 
The Braves, who caught the Dodgers atop the NL West on Tuesday, have won six of eight and have a 31-16 record since the All-Star break, best in the league. Los Angeles played at home against Pittsburgh. 

Glavine was touched for the lost four in a row and seven of Mets' only run in the third when his last eight decisions. Kevin Elster singled to extend his hitting streak to eight games Reds 11, Expos 3 and was sacrificed to second by CINCINNATI Tom Frank Viola. Chuck Carr then Browning prevailed in a rare drove in Elster with a single. matchup of perfect-game pitch­
The Braves went ahead in the ers as Cincinnati rocked Dennis nfth off Viola (12-12), who has Martinez for five runs in three innings and routed Montreal. 
The major's first pairing of perfect-game pitchers in 25 years was no contest. Chris Sabo drove in three runs off Martinez to start the offensive surge and Mariano Duncan went 4-for-5 with a pair of two­run homers off the Expos' bullpen. 
Browning (13-8) allowed five hits over seven innings, includ­ing solo homers by Tim Wallach and Ivan Calderon, to give the Reds their third straight win and their fifth in six games. Steve Foster finished for Cincinnati. 
Martinez (12-9), whose per­fect game July 28 in Los Angeles was the major leagues' most recent, put in his shortest start of the season. The right­hander gave up six hits and five runs in three innings, with Sabo doing most of the damage. 
Padres 2, Cardinals 1 

ST. LOUIS -Fred McGriff snapped a tie with a ninth­inning sacrifice fly and Bruce Hurst won his 15th game San Diego ended St. Louis' five­game winning streak. The Padres have won four of their last five. 
Pinch-hitter Oscar Azocar led off the ninth with an infield hit off Scott Terry (4-2) and went all the way to third when sec­ond baseman Jose Oquendo's throw from near second base bounced off his leg and rolled into shallow right field. With one out, Tony Gwynn drew an intentional walk before McGriff lofted a fly to medium center off Bob McClure that scored Azocar easily. 
Hurst (15-6) pitched 8 1-3 innings, giving up a run on six hits and striking out seven. 
Breakaway republics will field own Olympic teams 
LONDON (AP) -The Soviet Olympic powerhouse may never be the same. 
The attempted coup against Mikhail Gorbachev has not only set off political changes across the Soviet Union, it has also raised profound ramifications for what has long been the world's dominant sports power. 
With the Baltic states gaining international recognition, other republics seeking to secede and the country showing signs of disintegration, the Soviet Union may never field a unified team in Olympic competition again. 
"I think we have seen the red flag for the last time," said Juan Antonio Samaranch, president of the International Olympic Committee. 
Samaranch made his com­ments Wednesday at the World Track and Field Championships in Tokyo. He said the competi­tion "may be the last time that the Soviet Union competes as a single country." 
Already, seven of the 15 Soviet republics have declared outright independence and others could follow suit. The three Baltic republics ­Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia ­are the furthest along the secessionist route, having re­ceived recognition from 19 countries as of Wednesday. 
Samaranch said "there is a strong possibility" the IOC will soon recognize the Baltics as independent countries and grant them membership in time to compete in the Summer Games in Barcelona next year. 
IOC Director General Francois Carrard said it is possible the Baltic states could even take part in the Winter Games in Albertville, France, in February. 
"At this stage, I wouldn't ex­clude anything," Carrard said from IOC headquarters in Lausanne, Switzerland. "All op­tions are open." 
Carrard said the application by the three Baltic republics for IOC membership, first made last year, will be discussed by the IOC executive board at a meeting in Berlin in mid­September. 
Any decision would likely be ratified by the full IOC at its next general session in Albertville, scheduled a week before the opening of the Winter Games. 
Before achieving full recogni­tion, the Olympic committees of the three republics must be recognized by five international sports federations. 
Samaranch said that is likely to happen "quite quickly" if the political status of the republics is clarified over the next few weeks. 
The Baltic states were inde­pendent countries and members of the IOC between the two world wars. The Baltics were annexed by Moscow in 
Flower Deliveri 7 Days 
~'SY 0 Pptth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
~~~~~3rJ::re (219) 277·1291 
South Bu IN 46637 ,._AIIW•Id 14bra. 
1940, and since then athletes from the three republics have competed for Soviet national teams. 
"The Baltic states are not an admission but a readmission," said Samaranch, who once served as Spain's ambassador to the Soviet Union. 
If the Baltics send their own teams to the Olympics, the Soviets will lose some of their top athletes. 
Lithuania has produced some of the best players on the Soviet national basketball team, no­tably center Arvidas Sabonis. Estonia is home to many world­class sailors, and Latvia is a stronghold of bobsled and luge competitors. 
Technically, the Baltic states have already broken away from the Soviet Olympic system. For months now, many Baltic ath­letes have refused to compete on Soviet teams. 
At a meeting with IOC officials in Lausanne last month, leaders of the national Olympic committees from the Baltic re­publics said they would com­pete in the Olympics only as in­dependent countries or under the IOC flag. 
"Our sportsmen have nothing against Soviet athletes, but we want to represent our own in­dependent state, which has long been suppressed by the Soviet Union," ·Arturas Poviliunas, president of the Lithuanian National Olympic Committee, said then. 
While the Baltics are cur­rently at the top of the IOC's list for possible recognition, Carrard said other Soviet re­publics have also made bids to join as independent states. These include the Ukraine, the second most populous and wealthiest republic after Russia. 
Caught in the middle of the upheavals is the Soviet National Olympic Committee, which is seeking to keep its once-un­stoppable sports machine from collapsing. 
"Of course all these changes in the country will influence us," said Alexander Kozlovsky, deputy chairman of the com­mittee. "We are thinking of ways of how to meet these changes. In principle, we hope we will preserve the united Olympic Committee with a ma­jority of republics." 
The failed coup forced the Soviet Olympic Committee to postpone scheduled meetings with the country's various na­tional Olympic committees, in­cluding those from the Baltics. The meeting has been resched­uled for Sept. 10-12. 

Kozlovsky said he remains hopeful the Soviet Olympic sys­tem can survive the turmoil and continue to be a force in world competition. 
"We have a very, very devel­oped structure in the country, which is really difficult to de­stroy with one word or one move," he said. "They say it is difficult to create and simple to destroy. But we are doing ev­erything to try to preserve the best of the existing system. I believe we will not fail in the face of the international sports society in our attempts to pre­serve this very high level of per­formance and competition." 
Since Soviet athletes started competing in the Olympics in 1952, they have won 1,212 medals, more than any other country during those years. U.S. athletes, who started competing when the modern Games began in 1896, have won 1,904 medals. 

-
Thursday, August 29, 1991 
SPORlS SHORTS 
Bocket-Eiutle rematch fizzles 
• TORONTO -It was the rematch, Flutie vs. the Rocket. But in this one, neither was deserving of one-name recognition. Two of the most exciting players in college football history met for the second time in the Canadian Football League this season, but didn't steal the show in Toronto's 34-25 victory over British Columbia on Tuesday night. Toronto's Raghib "Rocket" Ismail gained 60 yards on nine rushing attempts and caught three passes for 28 yards. Doug Flutie completed 29 of 49 pass attempts for 360 yards and one touchdown for British Columbia. In the first meeting on Aug. 1, the teams combined for 93 points in a 52-41 overtime shootout. 
Pro bowler helping recovering addicts 
• WALLA WALLA, Wash. -Hall of Fame bowler Earl Anthony has made some tough splits and is now helping people in some tough situations. Anthony is coaching 21 patients from the Veterans Administration Hospital drug and alcohol clinic. "Basically, what I do is go around and provide a change· of lifestyle," Anthony said. "Anything to give them a diversion. Some of these people are in tough shape." Danney, a 42-year­old Vietnam-era veteran who asked that his last name not be published, had some trouble with those difficult splits until Anthony offered advice on the basics and the tricky shots. "Now that I can pick up those spares, I'll want to bowl more than ever," Danney said. Anthony retired from the Pro Bowlers Tour In 1983 after 14 years and 45 titles. 
Two Argos pay for bungee-iumping 
• TORONTO -Toronto Argonauts players Mike "Pinball" Clemons and Harold Hallman were looking for the ultimate thrill last week when they went bungee jumping at the Canadian National Exhibition. However, Toronto general manager Mike McCarthy was not thrilled and fined the players. McCarthy, who did not announce the amounts of the fines, learned of the Incident after a photo of Clemons dangling from a bungee cord appeared in Toronto newspapers. Clemons, a former William & Mary wide reciver, was the CFL's most valuable player last season. Hallman, a former Auburn star, is a starting defensive tackle. 
Testimony begins in Tyson grand jury investigation 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A special grand jury investigating allegations of rape against former heavyweight boxing champion Mike Tyson heard testimony Wednesday from contestants In the Miss Black America pageant. 
Tyson is accused of attacking an 18-year-old contestant July 19 at the Canterbury Hotel, where Tyson was staying as a guest of Indiana Black Expo. 
Also, a newspaper reported that the boxer might testify this week before the grand jury. 
The Indianapolis Star re­ported in Its Thursday editions that an unidentified source close to the investigation said Tyson would testify. The jury is to meet again on Friday. 
But James H. Voyles, Tyson's Indianapolis attorney, said he didn't know if his client would appear. 
SObering Advice·;~ 
cansavealife~~ 
Think BefOre YOU Drtnk 

p"'
BefOre You ortve .:f.··· 
TOKYO (AP) -With a world 
record at last to call his own, 
what's next for Carl Lewis? 
How about a 29-foot long jump? 
Lewis, who has won gold medals in the Olympics and World Championships and set the 100-meter mark of 9.86 seconds on Sunday in the World Track and Field Championships, still has one more goal. 
"I want to jump 29 feet," the 
30-year-old Lewis said. "It's one 
of the goals I have yet to 
achieve." 
Twenty-nine feet would put Lewis in elite company. Bob Beamon was the first to achieve that distance, going 29-2 1/2 in the high altitude of Mexico City in the 1968 Olympics, and that mark -the oldest in the sport -has stood as the world record since then. 
Robert Emmiyan of the Soviet Union came closest to breaking the record when he went 29-1 in a meet in 198 7. Lewis' best is 28-10 1/4-once indoors, once outdoors. He never has com­peted at altitude. 
Probably the closest he came to 29 feet was in 1982 in the 
U.S. Olympic Festival at Indianapolis, when he was called for a controversial foul on a jump that was beyond Beamon's record. 
Lewis, winner of 65 consecu­tive long jumps since 1981, con­tinues his pursuit for the elusive 29-footer Thursday when the championships resume after a day off. Qualifying starts Thursday, with the final on Friday. 
Lewis reached one of his ma­jor goals Sunday when he smashed the world record in the 100 on the lightning-fast National Stadium track. It was the first time he had set a world record by finishing first in an event. 
The long jump runway also is considered extremely fast, en­hancing Lewis' chances to reach 29 feet. 
"The runway is so fast that you have to be able to maintain control during your run-up," said Bob Kersee, coach and husband of Jackie Joyner­Kersee, winner of the women's long jump at 24-0 1/4 -her 
The Observer page 15 
Not content with one world record, Lewis aims for 29 ft. and a second world record 

for the, school year3.5 CUBIC FEET -Join the Notre Dame Athletics4.5 CUBIC FEET 6.5 CUBIC FEET Sports Marketing teamll  
PICK-UP AND DELIVERY AVAILABLE BURNS RENTAL, INC ~  
• 
332 W. MISHAWAKA AVE. THt FIGHTING  
(corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.)  .IRISH  
Student volunteers wanted to help promote  ....  
Irish athletics for the 1991-92 school year . •for information, call Kevin Kohl at 239-6826. •  

DORMITORY REFRIGERATORS 
RENTAL SIZES: 

$4 5 
2.5 CUBIC FEET (starting at) 
best since the '88 Olympics. 
In Lewis' only long jump competition this year, his win­ning streak nearly ended before he beat Mike Powell by a half­inch with a leap of 28-4 114 on his fmal attempt. 
Powell, along with Larry Myricks and Emmiyan, are ex­pected to offer the biggest challenges to Lewis. Myricks was the last jumper to beat Lewis, in the 1981 U.S. Indoor Championships. 
"Don't count Carl out of any­thing, anywhere," Mike Takaha, one of his coaches, said. "You don't realize what a great athlete and what a great competitor he is." 
·Lewis' greatness has been most evident when it counts the most -in the Olympics and World Championships. He matched Jesse Owens' feat by winning four golds in four events in the 1984 Games and won two golds and a silver in the '88 Olympics, losing only to Joe DeLoach in the 200 meters. 
In the World Championships, he has a record seven golds, in­cluding three each in 1983 and 1987, in seven events, although his 100-meter gold medal from '87 was awarded 2 1/2 years later, following the disqualifi­cation of Canadian Ben Johnson for steroid use. 
"My father always taught me to hit the big ones," Lewis said. "The big ones are the Olympics and the World Championships. I think I can jump over 29-2. I feel I have that capability. The talent is there, I have worked hard for ·it, and I have been very patient. 
"But I'm not losing perspec­tive that I have to break the record." 
Two other men are also trying for their third consecutive gold medals in the championships ­pole vaulter Sergei Bubka of the Soviet Union and 110-meter high hurdler Greg Foster. Both will be competing in their finals Thursday, when finals also will be held in the women's 400­meter intermediate hurdles and the men's 400-meter dash. 
After the first four days of competition, the Soviet Union team led with 14 medals, in-
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers Auto & Property Insurance 
AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 5922 GRAPE ROAD INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 
Please ask for John O'Malley. 
eluding four golds. The United States was second with nine medals, four golds, and Germany, competing for the first time as a unified team, had seven medals, three golds. 
Thursday's competition began with Dan O'Brien of the United States, the favorite in the decathlon, getting off to a strong start. 
Competing in slippery condi­tions because of early morning rain, O'Brien produced the fastest time, 10.41, in the 100­meter dash, the opening event of the 1 0-even t decath I on, then had the best long jump, 25-11. After two events, he had 2,031 points and a 117-point lead over runner-up Robert Zmelik of Czechoslovakia. 
France's Christian Plaziat, top-ranked in the world each of the past two years, was eighth with 1,769 points, and O'Brien's teammate, Dave Johnson, the 1990 Goodwill Games champion, was 22nd with 1,557. Johnson's left knee was heavily taped, the result of inflamed tendinitis at the U.S. Olympic Festival in July, and he said the injury was bothering him more than expected. 
Meanwhile, the first-round heats of the women's 200 began with the favorites advancing easily. They included the 1-2-3 finishers in the 100-meter final -Katrin Krabbe of Germany, Gwen Torrence of the United States and Merlene Ottey of Jamaica. 
Dannette Young of the United States had the fastest times in the heats, 22.77. 
There were, however, some surprises in the first round of the women's 100-meter high hurdles. 
Among those failing to qualify for the semifinals were Germans Gloria Siebert, silver medalist in the 1987 World Championships and 1988 Olympics; Cornelia Oschkenat, the 1985 and 1989 World Cup winner; NCAA champion Dawn Bowles; Britain's Lesley-Ann Skeete, and Romanians Mihaela Pogacian and Liliana Nastase. 
~~~~~T/'/~~~~~~~~~'7~~~:==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ : 
... 

' 
Angel's Abbott and Eichhorn blank Detroit, 1-0 
page 16 The Observer Thursday, August 29, 1991 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -Jim Abbott pitched four-hit ball over 7 1-3 innings and Luis Polonia doubled in the only run as the Angels beat the Tigers 1-0 Wednesday. 
The victory marked the first time in Abbott's three-year ca­reer that he has won five con­secutive starts. Abbott (14-8) struck out six and walked one before Mark Eichhorn relieved in the eighth. 
Bryan Harvey got the last three outs for his 33rd save of the season and his 100th with California. 
Bill Gullickson (16-7) failed to become major leagues' first 17­game winner and equal a ca­reer-high in victories, despite allowing just five hits in eight innings. 
Athletics 9, Red Sox 3 

OAKLAND, Calif. Outfielders Mike Greenwell and Tom Brunansky Jet Brook Jacoby's two-out fly ball drop between them for a three-run double to cap a four-run rally in the fifth inning as the Athletics beat the Red Sox, snapping a five-game losing streak. 
Dave Stewart (10-8) won for the frrst time in four starts with his eighth straight regular­season winning decision over Boston. Counting postseason play, Stewart has 11 straight victories over the Red Sox, who have never beaten him in Oakland (7-0). Matt Young dropped to 3-5. 
Twins 4, Indians 2 

CLEVELAND -Brian Harper drove in two runs, including the go-ahead run in the seventh in­ning, and David West pitched six strong innings as the Minnesota Twins beat the error­prone Cleveland Indians 4-2. 
The Twins completed their six-game road trip with a 3-3 mark. Cleveland, which committed six errors, lost for the second time in its last six games. 
West (4-3) allowed five hits, including Mark Whiten's two­run, tying home run in the sixth inning. Carl Willis pitched two scoreless innings and Rick Aguilera pitched the ninth for his 35th save. 
Minnesota broke a 2-2 tie in the seventh. Loser Eric King (5­
8) started the inning by hitting Randy Bush, and Kent Hrbek greeted reliever Jesse Orosco with a perfectly executed hit­and-run single that moved Bush to third. Harper followed with an RBI single against Jeff Shaw. 
Blue Jays 3, Orioles 0 

BALTIMORE -Tom Candiotti pitched one-hit ball for eight innings as the Toronto Blue Jays beat the Baltimore Orioles 3-0, opening a two-game lead in the AL East. 
Candiotti gave up a single to Joe Orsulak and a walk to Glenn Davis in the first inning, then retired the next 22 batters before leaving in favor of Tom Henke, who recorded his 31st save with a perfect ninth. 
Joe Carter drove in two runs for the Blue Jays, who com­pleted a three-game sweep. The Blue Jays' fifth victory in six games put them two games ahead of second-place Detroit. 
Candiotti (11-11) struck out three and walked one, outduel­ing Ben McDonald (5-8), who gave up eight hits and struck out eight in eight innings. 

'Comeback story' will play for Tulsa 
TULSA, Okla. (AP) -The comeback of split end Dan Bitson "truly one of the great comeback stories," Tulsa coach Dave Rader says. 
It's difficult to disagree. 

Doctors were skeptical that Bitson would even run again, much Jess play football, after a December 1989 auto accident in which he broke both legs, his right wrist, right kneecap and sustained extensive nerve dam­age. 
Tulsa opens its season at home Saturday night against Southwest Missouri State and Rader says Bitson will play. He even expects Bitson to catch a pass. 
"When he goes in, he ought to be recognized," Rader said. 
He actually will be recognized before then. Two local compa­nies are honoring Bitson's re­turn by giving away "I'm a Dan Fan" cups to the first 10,000 people through the gates. 
Just what are they expecting to see? 
Bitson caught 73 passes for 1,425 yards and 16 touchdowns in 1989 and was named a sec­ond-team All-America a few weeks after his accident. 
Will he be as sure-handed as he once was? Will he be as fast? As good? 
"If I go out and there and miss a pass, I wonder how many people will be making ex­cuses for me," Bitson said. "I think people at first might be thinking, 'If only he could still do this.' There will be a lot of 'if onlys.' 
"I really don't want to live up to anyone's expectations but my own," he said. "There's been a little talk that maybe I shouldn't be out here, and there have been times that I've thought the same thing. 
"But If I didn't come out here, if I didn't try, if I didn't do it, then I'd be letting myself down. 
"I really don't look that bad­but I don't look as good as I used to." 
Bitson once considered him­self a showman. His forte was the catch-and-run, turning rou­tine receptions into big gains because of his elusiveness and speed. He was the go-to guy in 1989, when Tulsa went 6-5 and got its first bowl bid in 13 years. 
Bitson was driving to school Dec. 4, 1989, just 12 days be­fore the Independence Bowl. According to police reports, the driver of another car had a seizure and swerved into on­coming traffic, striking Bitson's car head-on. 
Bitson was knocked uncon­scious and pinned in his car for 45 minutes, then hospitalized for nearly two months. 
He has undergone 14 surg­eries and a grueling rehabilita­tion. He had to re-learn how to walk, jog and run. 
"It's incredible the persistence he's shown," said quarterback 
T.J. Rubley, who's recovering from a knee injury sustained in the third game last year. Rubley will start Saturday. 
"At times you want to say, To 
-

is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
Associate News Editor News Copy Editor 
To apply, or for further information, 
heck with it' and throw in the towel," Rubley said. "It's a real credit to him that he could do that for two years. I climbed a hill. He climbed a mountain." 
Bitson said mentally he feels slower. He still aches. He was held out of the afternoon prac­tice in the fmal few two-a-days because of leg fatigue. 
But perhaps his greatest pain is remembering how good he once was instead of how far he has come. 
"I've compared myself to the past and it's hurt me," he said. "I go in and watch tapes of the things I used to do, then I come out here and try to do the same things." 
Bitson recalls one game par­ticularly well, a 35-33 victory over New Mexico early in the 1989 season. Bitson's purpose, individually, was to outdo Lobos' receiver Terance Mathis, who was drafted in the sixth round last year by the New York Jets. 
APPIDD Lance Parrish and the Angles shut out the Tigers yesterday, winning 1­
0. 
WE.DLIKETO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
The words we live cy 
To .Icam more ~ut t~c c.,.utitution write. C~mstitt.rtion. \ V:Uhington. r.wt 
D.C. 20S99· 1nc CommiSSion~.., the Bicentcnru..1l ..,f'fhc l1.S. l"l'l'lStitution. ~J 



Satisfactiolt1 C\U\aralt1teed 
Featuring the 1991 Campus Entertainer of the Year 
Craig Karges 

ESP, Illusions & Magic Saturday Aug 31 & Sunday Sept 1 
contact:
... 
8:00 PM Washington Hall 
Monica Yant, 239-5303 Applications will be due F~~-y, August 30. 
$ 3.00 tix on sale at LaFortune Information Desk KARGES JS AMAZING! 
... 
Thursday, August 29, 1991 The Observer page 17 
SPORlS BRIEFS 
•The 
Observer accepts sports briefs in writing at The Observer office on tho third floor of LaFortune from 9:00 a.m. until 4:30pm. Be sure to include date, place, time and number of days the brief is to run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all briefs. 

•Football 
ticket sales begin today at 9 a.m. with the Senior Class. Sales will run until 6 p.m. Students are reminded to bring their application, student J.D. and remittance to Gate 10 of the JACC. A maximum of four applications and J.D.'s are to be brought by one individual. A chart showing all sales dates appears on today's back page. 

•Attention 
Observer Sports Writers: Leave your new campus addresses and phone numbers in the Sports Department mailbox at the Observer by noon on Wednesday if you intend to write this year. Please include your top three choices for beat assignmenl'l. All editorial staff and returning writers must attend a meeting at 6:00 p.m. Thursday, and should report to the Observer as early as possible. 

•The 
Notre Dame Rugby Football Club has practice every Monday thru Thursday at 4:15 p.m. at Stepan Field starting today. For anyone wishing to join the club, there will be an informational meeting at 5:30 p.m. in the Haggar Hall Auditorium next Monday, September 2, or just come to a practice. All are welcome. Pads not necessary. 

•Mandatory 
lacrosse meeting for anyone interested in playing for the varsity squad Monday, September 2 at 5 p.m. in the Loftus Center. Any questions, call Kevin Corrigan at 239-5108. 

•A 
meeting will be held for all new sports writers Thursday at 


6:00 p.m. on the third floor of LaFortune at the Observer. Anyone interested in writing is welcome to attend. 
•All 
wrestlers and anyone interested in wrestling should attend a meeting on Tuesday, September 3, at 4:00 p.m. at the ACC. 

•Off 
Campus lnterhall football players can sign up by calling Steve at 233-3882. 

•The 
Notre Dame Rowing Club begins its 1991 season with an officers meeting this Thursday at 4:00 p.m. in the LaFortune basement. The first general meeting for all returning rowers and experienced transfer students will be held Monday at 7:00 p.m. in Nieuwland on the lower floor. All should attend, bring copies of insurance forms. 



Seniors Interested in Senior Formal Committee 

SENIOR PORTRAITS 
SIGN UP AUGUST 27-30 
NORTH DINING HALL SOUTH DINING HALL AND LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK (9:00 A.M.-9:00 P.M.) 
WHO:  Class of 1992  
WHEN:  Pictures taken  
September 2-20  

WHERE:Third Floor, LaFortune 
WHY: To Be In 1992 DOME 
Minimum sitting fee $10.00 
S. Africa to compete in African Games 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP)-South African track and field athletes will compete internationally for the first time in years in new African games scheduled for October, officials said Wednesday. 
Primo Nebiolo, president of the International Amateur Athletics Association, an­nounced in Tokyo the first African Unity Games would take place in Senegal on Oct. 5 and near Johannesburg on Oct. 12 and 13. 
"This is the start of a speedy return to world athletics and a grea:t moment for South Africa," said Joe Stutzen, co-chairman of the South African Amateur Athletics Assodation, the country's unified track and field body. 
The IAAF, the world body of track and field, granted South Africa provisional membership earlier this year and invited it to this week's world champi­onships in Tokyo after banning the country for 15 years be­cause of apartheid. 
But South African track and field officials differed over whether to accept the invita­tion, and eventually rejected it. Last week, the IAAF dropped South Africa's provisional membership, but indicated the country had until Oct. 12 to complete unification of track and field bodies. 
Wednesday's announcement indicated the IAAF would ap­prove South Africa's return and welcomed its participation in the new African Unity Games. 
"The ball has now started rolling," said Gert Le Houx, secretary of the unified South African body. "The great thing is that our athletes will now be competing again." 
Nebiolo's announcement said the African Unity Games would be staged under the patronage of the IAAF and athletes from all African nations, including South Afrjca, would be invited. 
It said the games were orga­nized "in the hope of seeking a positive solution to the problem of South Africa's isolation from the international athletics scene.'' 
The new African Unity Games would take place after the All African Games, scheduled for Cairo in September. South African officials have said the country would miss the Cairo competition. 
Since taking office two years ago, President F.W. de Klerk has carried out reforms aimed at ending apartheid and sharing power with the black majority. In response, the International Olympic Committee and other sporting bodies have started welcoming South Africa back. 
Two Eagles' defensive stars end holdouts 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Defensive stars Seth Joyner and Clyde Simmons signed contracts with the Eagles Wednesday, ending six-week holdouts just days before the team's season­opening game against the Green Bay Packers. 
Both signed a series of three one-year contracts, the team announced. The players' agent, Jim Solano, refused to disclose other terms. 
According to the Philadelphia Daily News, the contracts total the same amount the players had rejected earlier -$3 mil­lion over three years. But under the agreements signed Wednesday, the distribution differed, with the first two years paying more than the third. 
Only defensive tackle Jerome Brown and offensive tackle Matt Darwin remain unsigned. 
Solano said Brown, who saw Joyner and Simmons Tuesday night in Tampa, Fla., is not pleased to be among the last two holdouts. 
''I'm sure he would much rather have these guys holding out with him," Solano said. "I'm sure it leaves him out on a limb by himself." 
Joyner and Simmons reported for practice Wednesday after­noon, but coach Rich Kotite isn't expected to decide before Friday whether they will play Sunday at Green Bay. The Eagles said they would request a two-game roster exemption from the NFL for both players. 
Solano said the players have a chance to make the starting lineup, even with just four days to Jearn the new defense in­stalled by Bud Carson, the new defensive coordinator. 
"A lot of it will depend upon if they're ready to play on Sunday, and the big question is will they know the defense well enough to play," Solano said. 
He added the players had been working hard to keep fit. 
"Everyone marveled at what good shape they were in," he said. 
Joyner, a 6-foot-3 linebacker weighing 235 pounds, led the Eagles with 132 tackles last year and made 7.5 sacks. His teammates vote<t him defensive player of the year. 
Simmons, a 6-foot-6, 280­pound defensive end, compiled 
23.5 sacks over the last two seasons, eight in 1990. He ranks third among the Eagles' all-time sack leaders with 39, behind Heggie White (95) and Greg Brown (50.5). 
The Eagles also acquired former Cleveland Browns de­fensive tackle Tom Gibson off waivers. Gibson, 6 feet 8 and 275 pounds, is a four-year vet­eran who came to the Browns as a free agent In 1989. His ar­rival should give the team some insurance in the event Brown doesn't come to terms. 
Gibson will be working for defensive coordinator Bud Carson, a former head coach for the Browns 
He registered 32 tackles, two sacks and five batted passes in 16 regular-season games and two playoff games. After spending the first two weeks of the 1990 season on injured re­serve, he finished the 1990 sea­son with 42 tackles and one sack. 
BEACH PARTY! 
SATURDAY, AUGUST 31 ST. JOSEPH LAKE BEACH (RAIN DATE SEPTEMBER 1) 
A GREAT SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
11:00 AM BIATHLON 
INDIVIDUAL AND 2 PERSON TEAMS SWIM 1/2 MILE RUN 2 MILES REGISTER AT REC SPORTS OFFICE IN ADVANCE VARSITY &"THE REST OF US" DIVISIONS 

NOON BEACH VOLLEYBALL 
TEAMS SIGN UP IN ADVANCE AT REC SPORTS OFFICE 3 AND 6 PERSON TEAMS 


CANOEING PADDLE BOATS SCUBA DEMOS 
KAYAKING CLINIC SAILING AND ROWING DEMOS 
~ 
..,. 
·~·~ 
... 

-----~-~--~-------~l
---------------~-­
page 18 The Observer Thursday, August 29, 1991 
Seminoles psyched for Pigskin showdown with BVU 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -With his team's No. 1 ranking and its quest for a national cham­pionship on the line, Florida State coach Bobby Bowden isn't treating Thursday'a Pigskin Classic like some Mickey Mouse bowl game. 
The Seminoles are used to tough early schedules, but Bowden knows how devastating an season-opening rout can be. A 31-0 defeat by Miami knocked Florida State out of the No.. 1 spot in the 1988 season and marred an 11-1 season. 
So the importance of contain­ing Heisman Trophy winner Ty Detmer and the Brigham Young passing attack isn't lost on Bowden or the Seminoles. 
"We're treating it as a regu­lar-season big game and a big game we have to have," Bowden said during a press conference at Disneyland, where he was accompanied by Goofy and Mickey Mouse. 
"Both of us have to have it." 

"We'll see right off the bat whether those preseason pre­dictions are right or not. I think the fact that a lot of these boys were on our 1988 squad and saw us lose so ,bad to open the season should help." 
At the least, they should re­member Brigham Young's 28­21 ambush of Miami last year in the top-ranked Hurricanes' opener. Quarterback Casey Weldon said he learned the les­son of how quickly and easily a team can fall from No. 1. 
"It's different than in 1988," he said. "This team doesn't take 
the preseason ranking too seriously." Facing Detmer, however, is serious business. 
To counteract Detmer, who needs just 426 more yards to break the collegiate career passing mark, Florida State plans to use stunt defenses and pull a few surprises. 
"We feel like if they do pretty much the same thing (as last year) we'll be pretty well pre­pared," · linebacker Kirk Carruthers said. "We're going to have to contain him and take him out of the game as soon as possible. We've got to keep him under control and not let him have a career day." 
Like last season, the No. 19 Cougars are underdogs looking to pick off No. 1, but this time they're without an experienced offensive line behind Detmer and have a new crop of re­ceivers. 
"We have so many young kids, some of them haven't been on a trip," coach LaVell Edwards said. "If we were going to Laramie it would seem like a bowl to them." 
Edwards predicts good things, although perhaps not right away, from a line that returns only senior guard Bryan May from last year's team that was 10-3. 
"This group is going to be good, maybe one of the best," he said. "Whether or not it comes together tomorrow night or not remains to be seen." 
The depth and experience of the Seminoles, who return 17 starters from last year's squad that went 10-2, are intimidat­ing, Edwards said. 
"They run the ball so well and they have the ability to throw. It's a ball club that looks like it doesn't have any flaws." 
But Florida State said a passing game like BYU's is im­possible to simulate in practice and there's always the chance that the Cougars could attack on the ground. 
"The mystery is how much will he run it," Bowden said. ''I'm sure the run will be in­volved. How much he plans to use it I don't know. We'll just have to find out." 
Edwards said he would like to surprise the Seminoles with a more active running game but isn't sure it would be effective. 
Trevino gives up regular tour for PGA Senior tour 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Lee Trevino is enjoying life on the PGA Senior Tour so much he's decided to leave the regular tour for good. 
"I have hung it up. I will play one tournament next year, which is the British Open be­cause I won there in 1972 at Muirfield. After that, that will be it for me," the 51-year-old Trevino said Wednesday. 
Trevino, the 1990 Player of the Year in his first full season as a senior, makes his frrst ap­pearance in the GTE North Classic on the 6,6 70-yard, par­72 Broadmoor Country Club on Friday. 
Two weeks ago, he withdrew from the PGA Championship at nearby Crooked Stick Golf Club, taking a week off from golf and helping to create the vacancy that was eventually filled by champion John Daly. 
"I have no business going over there. I wouldn't want to go over there and take a young man's spot. I feel a little re­sponsible for Daly because I withdrew," said Trevino, who watched Daly's long drives on television. 
"He didn't send flowers or anything, but I'm very happy for him. I think he's really stimulated something," Trevino said. "I've never seen a crowd get behind a young man like they did. It was tremendous, they wanted him to win. He v;as the underdog, the ninth alter­nate. He hit it 400 miles and they loved that." 
Trevino, whose first PGA Tour victory came in the 1968 U.S. Open, realizes that his game isn't suited to challenge the likes of Daly. 
"I got my own little deal over here, I don't need it," he said of the Senior Tour. "I don't think the game is harder. I think the competitive juices keep flowing and you want to win so bad.... What we've done is gone to shorter golf courses. 
"I wouldn't be able to com­pete on long courses. That's one of the reasons that I withdrew. at Crooked Stick." 
But he believes Jack Nicklaus should continue dividing his time between both tours. 
"He's a little more talented than the rest of us. I think if Jack plays a lot of golf, he can win on the regular tour. There's no question in my mind," Trevino said of his long-time rival. "He's got the strength. He's got the mentality for it. He's got the game for it. ... He's the best that's ever played the game, no question about it." 
Trevino doesn't have to worry about Nicklaus this week, but the tournament has drawn this year's top eight Senior Tour money-winners -including de­fending champion Mike Hill. 
Chi Chi Rodriguez leads the list with $591,460 and four vic­tories. He's followed by Hill at $527,569 and Trevino with $480,129 after winning last week's stop at Albuquerque, N.M. 
"My game is coming around. Even though I won last week, I won on a very short course and I won with the wedge and the putter. Every time I had to hit a long iron or a medium long iron I didn't hit very well," Trevino said. 
"I think I hit up on what I was doing wrong. I think I was too straight up and down.· 





"Stick With The One You Know" 
Welcome Back Students, Faculty & Staff 
p;.zs 
• 
r·--------::::'l . 
-
•­

Scotch Heouy Duty Mounting Squores 
89~ 


... 
Special Hours: Wed. Aug. 28, 9-7, Thurs. Aug 29, 9-6 
ON THE CAMPUS 
Thursday, August 29, 1991 The Observer page 19 
MENU CROSSWORD 


THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPaUNKER JAY HOSLER 





Free picnic tonight at Alumni-Senior Club 
NO ZI 10 REQUIRED 
6:00-8:00 
Paid Position of 
Circulation Drivers. 
Contact Gil Gomez at 239-7471 
..... 



Sports 
page 20 Thursday, August 29, 1991 
Seniors camp out for coveted 50-yd. line tickets 
BY ROLANDO de AGUIAR waiting for several of his noc­Sports Writer turnal pals to return with food and refreshments. "I am sup­
Several hundred seniors posed to read Descartes tonight. pulled their first all-nighter of Descartes can wait." the 1991 school year "We are seniors," said Saint Wednesday night, as they Mary's student Mimi Brennan, waited outside Gate 10 of the "We're not going to have time to Joyce Athletic and Convocation be together much longer." Center for Irish football season "It doesn't matter where you tickets. are in line. We are just doing 
The class of 199 2 may pur­this because it's fun, " said Cara chase their tickets today from 9 Balog, of Saint Mary's. 
a.m. until 6 p.m. at the JACC, The tradition of waiting out­and many elected to get a jump side the J.A.C. C. has been bol­on the best seats in Notre Dame stered in recent years by special Stadium by setting up camp on occurrences at these all-night the concrete. social functions. The class of Thirty residents of Pangborn 1991 was visited last year by Hall were the first group in line, Lou Holtz on the morning of having arrived Tuesday night. their ticket purchase. Holtz 
"Pangborn has been the frrst brought doughnuts for the in line the last couple of years," Notre Dame faithful, and ex­said one of the students, who tolled their fanatic enthusiasm. was working the 5-9:30 shift Holtz's appreciation of the Wednesday. "We are trying to seniors' dedicated actions serve make it a tradition." as an inspiration to many of this 
For those Pangborn residents, year's campers. 
is but one of the creature com­tress, the temperature outside the stupidest ones out here." 
waiting outside is a tame "We're hoping that Lou Holtz forts enjoyed by this group. A was undoubtedly lower than However, the total experiencetradition. However, many of will personally join us and bring ping-pong table had been set that in many of the campers' of ticket-camping is enjoyablethese seniors have social con­us Dunkin' Donuts in the up, and guitar playing could be dorms. for every senior. 
tact on their minds. morning," said Morrissey resi­heard from several places. "We came from Flanner, "You've got to do it once,""I'm just here to hang out dent Tim Rogers. 
Though cement is not the where it's air conditioned" said said Rogers. "If you don't,with my friends," said Alumni Breakfast served by the head world's most comfortable mat-Mike Borgas. "So that makes us you're a chump."
resident Scott Fraser, who was coach of the Irish football team 

Nittany Lions wreck Georgia Tech in Kickoff Classic 
Sacca throws school-record 5 TO's for Penn State 
~"J 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. quarter. Following an intercep­51 yards, Anderson four for 93 (AP) -Tony Sacca set a school tion by Matt Baggett, the Lions and McDuffie four for 62. record with five touchdown immediately struck again on a passes as Penn State ended spectacular, juggling 39-yard Georgia Tech scored three Georgia Tech's 16-game un­catch by McDuffie. touchdowns in the final 4:40, beaten streak, routing the Penn State then recovered a but it was much too little and Yellow Jackets 34-22 fumble by Georgia Tech quar­much too late. Jones scored on Wednesday night in the Kickoff terback Shawn Jones, setting a 2-yard run and backup Jeff Classic. up a score on a 53-yard screen Howard threw TD passes of 41 
Sacca, who had 10 TD passes pass from Sacca to Anderson yards to Jason McGill and 25 all last season, threw two each that made it 34-3 with 14:17 yards to Greg Lester, the latter to Terry Smith and O.J. left in the game. after the Yellow Jackets recov­McDuffie and one to Richie ered an onsides kick. Anderson before a record 'Yellow Jacket QB Kickoff Classic crowd of 77,409 Scott Sisson missed the extra
Shawn Jones, a
at Giants Stadium. point after Lester's touchdown, 
After building a 13-3 halftime Heisman contender, snapping his PAT streak at 70. lead, the seventh-ranked Nittany Lions broke the game lost three fumbles Jones, touted as a Heisman open when Sacca threw three Trophy contender, lost three
and one interception.'
TD passes during a 3-minute, fumbles and was intercepted 40-second span midway once. He completed 15 of 31 through the second half. All of Sacca, a senior who was crit­passes for 155 yards. the scores followed turnovers icized for erratic play during his by No. 8 Georgia Tech, the only first three years at Penn State, It was Georgia Tech's first undefeated team in Division 1-A completed 13 of 24 passes for defeat since losing to Duke 30­last season. 206 yards. His five TD passes 19 on Oct. 28, 1989. The Yellow 
McDuffie's 5-yard reception broke the school record of four Jackets' 15-0-1 mark since then gave Penn State a 20-3 lead held by three others. had been the nation's longest with 2:57 left left in the third Smith caught five passes for unbeaten streak. 
TheCllaerver/~ SdTopp Penn State quarterback Tony Sacca, here versus Notre Dame last season, broke a school record for TO passes in a game, with five. 
Juniors get tix tomorrow; sales go into next week 
By DAVE DIETEMAN ceived their ticket applications. 
Sports Editor Students who have not received 
their applications as of today 
are advised by Notre Dame 
Distribution of Notre Dame Ticket Manager Bubba student football tickets began Cunningham to come to the today at 9 a.m. at Gate 10 of the JACC ticket office. 
JACC. "A lot of times we're not sure 
Students are advised to bring if a student is living off-campus their I.D. cards, ticket applica­in South Bend or if we have tions and remittance (cash or their home address, so we have check) to the JACC. Students to wait to mail the applicationswill be allowed to carry a out," stated Cunningham. "We maximum of four I.D.'s and four don't want to mail the applica­applications each. tions to their houses and miss 
The remainder of the tickets them. We have a list from the 
will be distributed as follows: Registrar that we go by, but Juniors, Friday, August 30; students should call the ticket Law/Grad Students, Saturday, office if they don't receive their August 31; Sophomores, applications." 
Monday, September 2; Those purchasing tickets are Freshmen, Tuesday, September in for a shock, as this year's
3. tickets will no longer be sold on 
Unfortunately, most off-cam­pus students have not yet re-see Tickets, p. 12 

FOOTBALL TICKET SALE INFORMATION 
Seniors: Today 
Juniors: Fri., Aug. 30 
Law/Grad Students: Sat., Aug. 31 
Sophomores: Mon., Sept. 2 
Freshmen: Tues., Sept. 3 






