
VOL. XXIII NO. 114 
FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1991 
~ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Leisure time 
Notre Da~e law stu~ents (left to right) Megan Shannon, Jennifer Laughlin and Ed Yevoli relax on split log benches next to Samt Joseph s Lake Thursday. Students sported shorts, shades and spring break tans as temperatures soared into the 70s. 
U.N. lifts Iraqi food embargo 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The Security Council's 
sanctions committee will lift the food embargo on 
Iraq now that Baghdad has agreed to allow the 
United Nations to distribute the foodstuffs, a senior 
Western diplomat said Thursday. 
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the sanctions committee would allow food and other essentials into Iraq starting Friday if the Red Cross and United Nations can see that it reaches all parts of the country. 
Iraq will have to allow the food to be sent into the Kurd-controlled areas of the north, and the provinces of the south where Shiites are rebelling, he said. 
The Security Council on Thursday heard a report that Iraq had been "relegated to a pre-industrial age" by the "near-apocalyptic" allied military assault. 
Undersecretary-General Martti Ahtisaari's report recommended the sanctions committee lift barriers to food and agricultural equipment immediately. 
"It is unmistakable that the Iraqi people may soon face a further imminent catastrophe, which could include epidemic and famine, if massive life sup­porting needs are not met," his report said. "Time is short." 
Iraq's U.N. Mission and Washington Embassy were closed, and Iraqi officials were not available to confirm that they would allow food to be distributed to all regions of the country. 
The council's committee on sanctions was to meet Friday morning. It consists of the same 15 nations as 
see IRAQ I page 4 
S.U.D.S. asks community and businesses for support 
By MONICA YANT On Feb. 23, S.U.D.S. con­News Editor ducted raids at Hridget McGuire's Filling Station, 1025 Before spring break, Sgt. South Bend Ave., and Club 23, James Moon of the South Bend 7 44 N. Notre Dame Ave., citing 
Police Department sent a letter over 90 people at the two bars 
to a few friends-200 busi­for violations that include minor nesses in the area that deal in in tavern and possession of alcohol sales ai.ld service. false identification. S.U.D.S. officers conducted another raid The letter asked for commu­at McCormick's Coney Island, nity assistance in combating the 125 N. Michigan Ave., less than rise in alcohol use by persons a week later, netting four ar­
under 21. It outlined the rests for similar violations. Indiana state alcohol laws and detailed the potential loss fac-"We don't expect every time ing businesses that violate these we raid a bar to arrest as many laws. as we did at Bridget's," Moon 
Moon is program director for said, "yet we want the business Stop Underage Drinking and owners to get the message that Sales (S.U.D.S.), a task force we are out there." comprised of members of the The large number of minors South Bend Police, St. Joseph found in the bars raided raises County Police, Indiana State an important issue regarding Police and Indiana Excise Po-responsibility for combatting lice. The task force is a county false identification, according to effort to "pool our resources Moon. While many bars have together," Moon said. police officers checking identifi-
Aithough S.U.D.S. was estab-cation at the door, subsequent lished in 1986, Moon said the checking inside the bar is less task force has been "in the common, he said...Our stance limelight" lately after increased is that it is all the employees of raids on area taverns. a business' responsibility, not 

S.U.D.S. and Students 
Alook at how the S.U.D.S. task force is affecting local bars 
• Bars react I page 7 
just a bouncer or an officer working the door." 
"It's a team effort," Moon said. "Everyone has the same responsibility to card," from the owner to the waitress to the bartender to the manager. 
He said thorough checking of identification is analogous to the defensive line in a football game, when a player may get through one spot of the line, only to be stopped by another. "Just because they (minors) get by the first defense doesn't mean that someone else can't stop them." 
Moon explained that proper 

Navy planes collide off California coast 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -Two Navy submarine-hunting planes col­lided Thursday, and all 27 peo­ple aboard were feared dead in cold, choppy waters 60 miles off Southern California, authorities said. 
The Navy listed the crews as missing but there was little hope any of the crew members from the downed P-3 Orions survived. 
The all-weather planes were engaged in an anti-submarine warfare training exercise when they collided in bad weather, authorities said. 
"I think we have to be realis­tic here," said Senior Chief Petty Officer Bob Howard, a Navy public affairs officer at North Island Naval Air Station. "It is very cold out there. We're talking about what apparently is a mid-air collision ... two air­craft. I would say it would be very grim." 
Still, he said, the Navy was conducting an aggressive air and sea search of the crash site. 
Search and rescue teams spotted some debris from the planes but found no signs of life. 

There was no word on how long the search would last, but Howard said the Navy would make "extraordinary" attempts to retrieve remains and wreck­age. 
A Navy helicopter crew flying in the area and sailors from the destroyer USS Merrill all re­ported a ball of fire and loud explosion at about 2:30 a.m. PST, Howard said during a briefing at North Island Naval Air Station. 
He said the accident occurred over the Pacific Ocean about 60 
see JETS I page 4 

checking of identification in­volves the request for two forms of photo identification, as well as additional forms like social security cards. "A credit card is not good enough for a second form of ID," he said. 
False or altered identification 
falls under the category of 
Class C Misdemeanors, which 
are punishable by up to 60 days 
in jail and up to a $500 fine. 
Using altered identification 
and supplying it are two differ­
ent things, Moon said. Using 
false identification is consid­
ered a Class C infraction, and 
no jail time accompanies the vi­
olation, according to Moon. 
If, however, someone supplies 
another with a false ID, that 
person has committed the ac­
tual misdemeanor, and would 
face potential jail time, he said. 
Falsely informing a police of­ficer can also be considered a Class B Misdemeanor, punish­able by up to six months in jail and a fine up to $1000. The dif­ference here is if the minor lies to the officer (by claiminll to be 
of age), the minor is guilty of false information, and faces the steeper penalties or the sepa­
rate charge. 

Minors using false or altered Indiana licenses will face a one­year suspension of their license, Moon said. If the identification belongs to another person, that person can face the same penalties for providing the license. 
If the false identification used is from another state, and that state has an agreement of re­ciprocity with Indiana, the indi­vidual could face the same penalties in his or her own state as would be faced in Indi­ana, Moon said. 
Moon stressed that there is no difference in penalties for the type of false identification in possession. Whether the li­cense is real or manufactured, the violation is still a Class C Misdemeanor. 
Most first-time minor offend­ers are given pre-trial diver­sion, Moon said. This is a pro-
see S.U.D.S.I page 6 
Schedule of Events 
• Junior Mother/Daughter Weekend • Saint Mary's College Friday 
5:30-7 p.m. Wine and cheese reception, Haggar Parlor. 
Saturday 
9-10 a.m. Aerobics, Angela Athletic Facility. 
11:15 a.m. Buses leave from LeMans Circle for Michigan City Lighthouse Mall. 2 p.m. "Starlight Express," Joyce Athletic and Convocation 
Center. 6-7 p.m. Cocktail Hour, Union Station. 7-8:45 p.m. Welcoming ceremonies and dinner. 8:45-10 p.m. The Second City Touring Company. Sunday 9 a.m. Mass, Church of Loretto. 


Friday, March 22, 1991
page 2 
The Observer 



FORECAST: 

Seventy percent chance of showers, with possible thundershowers Friday afternoon. Highs will range in the mid 50s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Accent needs you to help cover ND/SMC 
As is traditional when a new group of editors take over The Observer, an introduction is in order. It is not an introduction of me that is necessary (I think my birthday ad already accomplished that}. 
It is the Accent de­
partment itself that de-Accent Edjtor serves an introduction. The Accent department is The Observer's features section. Features are an important part of any newspaper. 
Features generally reflect on people, places and things that are newsworthy, but not in a "newsy" sort of way. If a man is elected sheriff, it's a news story. If a man who is a marijuana farmer and a devout Satan worshipper runs for sheriff, his story might be just a little bit more "featurey." 
That's not to say that features have to be "weird" or humorous all of the time. Features can simply tell the story of someone or something that is interesting or unique. 
In order for the Accent department to be successful this year, it will need one thing: you. This "We Need You!" theme may be getting old, but it is true. In fact, Accent has an immediate need for people in the following capacities: 
• 
Movie critic-If you are an avid movie goer and you have strong writing skills, Ac­cent wants you to be The Observer's movie reviewer. You would be required to see a movie every other week (paid for by The Ob­server). To apply, submit a one-page personal statement and a writing sample (preferably a sample movie review) to me at The Observer office, 314 LaFortune. 

• 
Literary critic-If you're a graduate or undergraduate in a literary-based major {ENGL. AMST, etc.), Accent wants you to be The Observer's book critic. You would be required to read a book about once a month (with The Observer paying for the book). To apply, also submit a one-page personal statement and a writing sample to me at The Observer office. 

• 
General staff writers-Anyone interested in writing feature stories for the Accent pages, come on in and tell us-no application necessary. See me, Paige Smoron, Shonda Wilson or Jahnelle Harrigan. Or talk to anyone at The Observer-it doesn't matter. We need you. Period. 


Finally, and most importantly, we need ideas. If you know of someone or something that would make a good story, run it by us. We're always trying to increase campus coverage. 
If you're in an organization that is doing something of interest, give us a call. Please give us plenty of advanced notice. 
So, that's all for my pleading. As I said earlier, Accent doesn't have to be all humor, it can be serious, too. But I've had enough of serious for now. How about a joke? 
Who is the U.S.A.'s only hope to overthrow 
Saddam Hussein? Mike Tomczak! Oh, ha ha 
ha...Yuk Yuk Yuk. 
And did you hear the one about... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Thursday's Staff 
News Paul Pearson Frank Rivera Siobhan McCarthy 
Accent Shonda Wilson Charmaine Martinez Michelle Devers Paul Pearson 
Sports Rolando de Aguiar 
Scoreboard Dave McMahon Jim Vogel 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Production lisa Bordon Cheryl Moser 
Systems Edouard BeaLNais 
Graphics Circulation Steve Burgun Bill O'Rourke Ann-Marie Conrado Matt Novak Michael Muldoon 
VIewpointPhotography 
Michael Krause 
Macy Hueciel 
. · 
John O'Brien 

Forecast for noon. friday, March 22 
Litle$ Sllow lligh tempetatures. · ·· · · ·
REPORT 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Violence erupts in South Africa 
• JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -Sporadic violence erupted Thursday as tens of thousands of blacks stayed away from work on Sharpeville Day, the anniversary of a massacre that escalated the apartheid conflict. Police fired shotguns, rubber bullets and tear gas to disperse marchers in black townships near Cape Town and Port Elizabeth, injuring 11 people, the South African Press Association reported. The ANC and other black opposition groups traditionally have urged widespread strikes on Sharpeville Day.This year, though, the ANC and PAC stopped short of calling for a strike. More than 10 months of talks between the government and ANC have led to the proposed repeal of all apartheid laws and the ANC's suspension of its largely ineffective armed struggle. 
OF INTEREST 
•Right 
to Life members and interested others will be picketing the Women's Pavillion today. Interested persons should meet at the main circle at either 1:30, 2:15, or 3:15p.m. for transportation. 

•Today 
is the last day for seniors to talk with Silvia Bauza of the ND Volunteers for Puerto Rico about doing a year of service. Stop in at the CSC today until 5 p.m. 

•Habitat 
for Humanity will be holding a House Raising this Saturday. Volunteers are needed and no experience is necessary. Call Paula Thompson at 237-0788. 

•"An 
Evening of Poetry: By Women, For Everyone," presented by the Women's Resource Committee of the GSU at 7 p.m. 20th century gallery of the Snite Museum. 

•Logan 
Center volunteers are invited to Easter bowling and Easter rec this weekend. Van pick-ups will be today at 3:30p.m. at Holy Cross Hall, Saint Mary's and 


3:45 p.m. at Pasquerilla West Hall, Notre Dame. Saturday pick-ups will be at 8:30 a.m. Holy Cross and 8:45 a.m. Main Circle. Direct questions to Janet, 284-5090 or Sally, 283-3783. 
•The Harvard University Glee Club will join the Notre 
MARKET UPDATE 
NATIONAL Cuban MiG undetected in U.S. air 
• MIAMI -Defense officials· were trying to determine Thursday if a Soviet-built warplane flew undetected through U.S. air space when its defecting pilot flew from Cuba to a Navy base near here. NORAD has not determined if radar picked up the MiG at any point during its flight, Niemann said, but he said it might have taken as little as eight to 10 minutes to fly the 90 miles from Cuba to Key West. If the plane came in at only a few feet above the sea level, Navy aerostat balloons and other radar equipment could have been confused by choppy waves, according to military experts. Defecting pilot Perez was flown to an undisclosed location by immigration officials after U.S. pilots gave him a welcome bag complete with candy bars, potato chips and a six­pack of beer, personnel at the base said. 
Dame Glee Club in a vespers concert this Sunday at 8 
p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
•Applications 
can be picked up at 315 LaFortune for staff positions for the 1991-1992 Dome. Direct questions to 239-7524. 

•Silvia 
Bauza of Notre Dame Volunteers for Puerto Rico will be at the CSC on Wednesday, April 3 and Thursday, April 4 to talk and interview seniors interested in working in Puerto Rico. Call 239-5293 to make an appointment or inquire through Mary Ann Roemer at the CSC. 

•Central 
America Week will be observed in an ec­umenical service by the Michiana Coalition for Peace and Justice Sunday at 2 p.m. at the crosses on Highway 33 north of Holy Cross Junior College. 

•one male actor is needed for a role in "The Good Women of Setzuan," a play to be put on by Notre Dame Communication. Interested students should contact Tom Barkes, 239-5956. 

•Standard 
First Aid classes are open for registration at University Health Center. Classes run two nights a week, Monday through Thursdays. Call 239-7 497 to register. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1901: Japan proclaimed it was determined to prevent Russian encroachment near Korea. 

•tn 
1915: In Poland, Russians took Premsyl after a 194-day siege and resumed advances through Carpathian Mountains. 

• 
In 1933: FOR signed a bill legalizing beer and wine. 

• 
In 1969: Doctors in Houston performed the first transplant of the human eye. 

• 
In 1972: The U.S. Senate passed the Equal Rights Amendment. 

• 
Five years ago: Thousands of striking workers in Manila blockaded the gates of a U.S. military base. 


City 
Athens Atlanta Berlin Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft. Worth Denver Detroit Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Miami Beach Moscow New Orleans New York Paris Philadelphia Portland. Ore. Rome St. Louis San Francisco South Bend Tokyo Washington, D.C 

H  L  
64  50  
74  51  
54  34  
53  33  
61  32  
70  66  
59  28  
57  41  
76  71  
78  66  
64  50  
55  48  
57  44  
62  45  
74  70  
39  30  
76  66  
56  39  
57  54  
56  
60  
68  
70  
56  
74  
63  
64  

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 21, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 199.83 Million 200.79 {7 0.52 S&P COMPOSITE 
366.58 • 1.85 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,855.45 .or 16.58
UNCHANGED 
490 PRECIOUS METALS GOLD {t $ .50 to $ 363.50/oz. 

SILVER ~ 6.0¢ to$ 3.994/oz. 

Friday, March 22, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Whitmore: Conscientious objection 'more than following a gut feeling' 
By DAVID ZIRINGER 
Staff Writer 
From Pasquerilla Center to Fieldhouse Mall, cries of con­scientious objection have been heard at Notre Dame. In Octo­ber, some students questioned the presence of the ROTC on a Catholic campus, while January and February heard protests against the Gulf War. 
Thursday, Todd Whitmore, an associate professor of theology, addressed how people form awareness of issues and then choose to conscientiously object to authority. 
According to Whitmore, con­science is "much more than fol­lowing a gut feeling ... and is not a negative phenomenon." Theologically, the conscience is the part of the human person through which God draws us to Him, he said. 
He described the conscien­tious formation of values as occurring in four dynamic, complementary stages. 
Foremost, Whitmore said that one must have a basic ori­entation to values, a desire "to do good and avoid evil. It is so fundamental to being a person that without it...the person isn't fully human." 
The second stage is formation and community, when one's values are socialized through the input of peers, authorities and culture. 
In the next stage one reaches 
,.. 
r  "  
--Ihe. Obset:Ver~=  
is looking for students interested in the paid position of Illustrator  
You must be able to work either Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday evenings. If you are interested, contact Jake Frost at 283-1078.  
...'­ ~  

G-SU TEACHING 
~ 
RESEARCH 
WORKSHOPS 


The Administration Speaks 
The Role & Stautus of Graduate Student Teaching at Notre Dame 
Monday, March _25th at the CCE from 7-9 p.m. 1 hr. neral sessiOn and 1 hr. discussion 
,...:..;--..l...-.......1 




a judgement on an issue from those various community influ­ences. 
Finally, one arrives at a deci­sion as to how to act on that judgement. To avoid that deci­sion by suppression or procras­tination, Whitmore said, is to "miss an opportunity to act morally." 
Furthermore, if the con­science dictates rebellion after following the formation stages, then the Catholic Church "not only allows, but morally obli­gates (one) to follow the con­science," Whitmore said. "The conscience as the center of re­lationship to God" underscores the gravity of such protest. 
The broadest definition of conscientious objection is the "civilian" version, according to Whitmore, where public protest and civil disobedience can be mandatory against uncon­scionable authoritarian com­mands. 
However, the most common understanding of conscientious objection opposes either per­sonal or national participation in war. Whitmore said that in wartime, and especially when a draft is possible, people often look to the church for guidance. 
Whitmore illustrated how Catholic policy towards war participation has changed. For example, the Pope condemned such conscientious objection in 1956. 
However, according to Whit­more, Vatican II recognized in­dividual pacifism while main­taining nations' need to wage war. By 1983, the bishops' pas­toral letter regarding just war began trying to reconcile jus­tice, peace and pacifism. 


That document was not meant to set church doctrine, but to "invite and challenge" Catholics to apply the broad principles of just war to issues, said Whitmore. 
From the document also arose the concept of selective conscientious objection. Such an objector, Whitmore said, protests any specific unjust war, but is not necessarily an absolute pacifiSt. 
According to Whitmore, this stance is incompatible with the legal definition of a conscien­tious objector. To waive con­scription, one must be a regis­tered and historically proven pacifist against any and all acts of violence (many churches and Campus Ministry at Notre Dame so register people). 
Thus, the selective conscien­tious objector would find draft exemption difficult. Curtailing the consistent ideological his­tory required, the objector 's opinions on a conflict may shift as do its means and ends. Said Whitmore, "Warfare has its own momentum." 
Professor Whitmore's lecture, presented in the parlor setting of LaFortune's Dooley Room, was co-sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Center for So­cial Concerns. 






Karl discusses Romero murder 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
News Writer 
The relationship between the murder of Archbishop Oscar Romero and El Salvador's on­going civil war for democracy was addressed Thursday night in a lecture by Professor Terry Karl of Stanford University. 
El Salvador "concentrates its land in the hands of a few and disposseses the peasants from land that they once had," said Karl. ~This export model en­courages the expansion cashcropping which forces peasants from their land." 
By the time civil war broke out in El Salvador the top three percent of the population con­trolled 64 percent of the land while the bottom 48 percent controlled only five percent, she said. 
Karl pointed out that the 

'kle ~ 4#14 uLt ~ 4#14 ~ ~· 
ACC~SSORIES -REPAIRS -LESSONS 

241 DIXIE WAY N · US 33 (OLD 31) one mile north of ) ( St. Mary·s College Roseland 

GUITARS -AMPS MON ·FRI. 12:00 NOON-6pmCAllfor SAT. hours 
CRATE. ALVAREZ. YAMAHA I 272-7510
WESTONE ·TAYLOR _ 
DICK WISNER. OWNER 
----------==::::::=!~ 
COME ON OVER AND WISH 
A 


HAPPY 

21st! 


LOVE, Fun, Backseat, Lizard, Beaker, Rooster, P.B., The Prostitute 
rapid growth of El Salvador's economy did not result in such a disparity. Taiwan's situation from 1950 to 1970 was similar to El Salvador's, she said, yet the richest 20 percent of the population saw its own per­centage of land that it con­trolled decrease rapidly while the economy flourished. 
The major reasons for the difference in Taiwan's situation, according to Karl, were "the establishment of a progressive tax structure, extensive social spending in welfare and most import of all, land reforms." 
Karl linked the assassination of Romero who was killed dur­ing Mass in San Salvador on March 24, 1980 to these eco­nomic situations. 
The Salvadoran government, highly influenced by the mili­tary, says the Catholic Church "promotes hate and class struggle," said Karl. 
The government will not take 
responsibility for its instability. 
The government claims the root 
of the problem lies in "the 
priests who ignore their pas­
toral missions," said Karl. 
Romero, who "decided to be 
the voice of the voiceless, "was 
a threat to the government, she 
said. 
Karl added that the instability of the government is a result of the overpowering military of El Salvador. U. S. aid in the early 1980s resulted in a two hundred and eleven percent in­crease in military forces. 
According to Karl, "the mili­tary became a force unto itself. One that waged war on civilians and forcibly relocated entire villages." 
Karl also said that "U.S. aid has systematically strengthened militarv over civilian forces, thereby undermining the very democratization that it sought to promote." 
"U.S. aid, offered to help bring about a resolution to the war, has actually prolonged the war by creating nearly irre­sistible incentives within the military to block negotiations," said Karl. 
According to Karl, the United States not only provides guns to El Salvador which are used for the massacres of citizens hut also trains Salvadoran military leaders who advocate the abuse of human rights. The soldiers who killed six Jesuit priests in 1989 had completed U.S. training days before. 
"The best homage we can pay to these people {the Salvado­rans)," said Karl, "is to do our utmost to empathize with their struggle; to speak if you have been silent, to act if you have only spoken and most impor­tantly to stop U.S. aid to the government of El Salvador." 
Concluding the lecture spon­sored by the Kellogg Institute and the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, Salvadoran students offered sincere thanks for American's concern for their situation. 

Friday, March 22, 1991 
. page 4 The Observer 



Iraq 
continued from page 1 
the Security Council, under Austria's chairmanship. 
Since the council imposed an international trade embargo on Iraq on Aug. 6, four days after Iraq invaded Kuwait, all sup­plies bound for Iraqi except for medicines have had to receive the approval of the sanctions committee. 
Food is only allowed into Iraq in humanitarian circumstances. But the sanctions committee can effectively lift the embargo on food by declaring that a humanitarian emergency exists. 
Western officials have indi­cated that overall embargo on Iraq would not be lifted until a permanent cease-fire is signed. 
The United States has circu­lated a proposal that would re­quire Iraq first to agree to de­stroy its nuclear weapons­grade materials and ballistic missiles, as well as chemical and biological weapons. 
Ahtisaari's report suggested Iraq was scarcely in a position to resist such conditions for a cease-fire. He said 90 percent of Iraq's industrial workers were idled, and "most means of modern life support have been destroyed." 
Allied fighter-bombers knocked out almost all Iraqi sewage treatment and water ftltration plants in January and February and damaged many water mains. 
Ahtisaari's report called for a massive infusion of humanitar­ian aid, such as water, food, fuel to run trucks and genera­tors, and spare parts and re­pair services to restore Iraq's oil refineries. 


Jets 
continued from page 1 
miles southwest of San Diego. 
"They were operating in con­junction with other surface and air elements when a mid-air explosion was reported approx­imately the same time radio contact was lost," Howard said. 
The collision occurred as one P-3 Orion was arriving to re­lieve the other, which had just completed its part of the exer­cise, Howard said. Officials were uncertain how much con­tact the pilots had before the crash, he said. 
The aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln, the USS Mer­rill and at least two other ships, along with helicopters and fixed-wing planes were as­sisting in the search. 
Howard said it was believed 13 crew members were aboard one P-3 Orion and 14 on the other. The planes were on a training mission from Moffett Naval Air Station near San Jose. Names of crew members were withheld pending notifica­tion of their families. 

AP 



Doing Reggae Anthems like: 
11 NO WOMAN, NO CRY11 11RASTAMAN VIBRATION11 11 EXODUS11 and more! 
"Few groups in the history of popular music have been able to project and dominate a music form as fully as the now legendary Wailers." 
Reggaa World Magazine 
Plus Special Guests... Also from Jamaica, also Jammin• 


• 
Special Notre Dame I St. Mary's 
STUDENT DISCOUNT TICKETS ONLY $10.00 
Public Ticket Price: $14.00 
Doors Open 7:00 pm -Music starts 8:00pm 
TICKETS ON SALE TODAY AT THESE LOCATIONS: 
Notre Dame St. Mary's Track's Records 
T/CI<e""'v.:lSTG"A• 

LaFortune Student Center O'Laughlin Auditorium 1931 Edison Road 
ltodudlng KMIU ......... I Setocl L.S. AJrft 

Box Office & Info Desk Box Office ~d South Bend
• (219}424-1811 
._-----------------------------------~---------------------------------------­
:____------------------------~-~-----­


. ­
Friday, March 22, 1991 The Observer 
page 5 


Opposition groups accuse Iraqi military of using chemical weapons 
Chowhound 
Would you be interested in becoming an 
Assistant to the Notre Dame Judicial Council? 

POSITIONS AVAILABLE: 
ELECfiONS Assistant LEGAL CONCERNS M;istant TRAINING Assistant ADMINISTRATIVE Assistant 

each of whom will be eligible for the position ofJudicial Council President for the Academic Year 1992-1993. 
ELIGIBILITY: 
Any cw;rent fr~h~~· sophomore, or junior of both ~cad~c an~ disc1plmary good standing who is interested m working With Student Government and Administration. 
DUE DATE: 
KODACOLOR GOLD 200 Color Print Aim. Sharp detail. 
Rich color. 

$2f9 
Reguler $5.25 
S.V.$2.26 
AJJICOI..OR SUPERHR100 Quality Color Aim. Aim allows sharp, fine grain enlargements. 
spo 
Regular $4.40 Save$2.41 
WHY GO ANYWHERE BSE! 
. 
• . 

THE MOST ENVIRONMENTALLY SOUND PHOTO LAB IN AMERICA! 
"The referendum and its re­
sults can be viewed as the suc­
cess of Soviet democracy and a 
triumph of those forces which 
associate the future of their na­
tive land and their personal 
destinies with the preservation 
and unity of the U.S.S.R.," Orlov 
said. 
Voters were asked: "Do you consider it necessary to pre­serve the Union of Soviet So­cialist Republics as a renewed federation of equal, sovereign republics in which human rights and freedoms of any na­tionality will be fully guaran­teed?" 
Thursday's resolution was given preliminary approval, then deputies made mostly mi­nor changes before giving it a fmal OK point by point. 
The final version says na­tional and republic govern­ments "shall be governed in their practical actions by the decision of voters to support renewal of the (union) in the referendum, whose results are final and have mandatory force in the whole territory of the U.S.S.R." 


NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP} ­
Iraq's opposition said today that 
helicopter gunships were 
dropping acid on Kurdish 
rebels in the north and that at­
tacks with napalm bombs and 
chemical weapons in the south 
have killed 15,000 people. 
Japanese television, mean­while, showed a videotape of Kurds celebrating in Kirkuk, the northern Iraqi oil center the rebels claim to have captured. 
Also today, opposition forces said the world's highest Shiite authority has been arrested in the city of Najaf and taken to Baghdad. The Shiites are bat­tling· government forces in southern Iraq. Iran condemned the move. 
The Kurdistan Democratic Party announced Wednesday that rebels had wiped out the last pockets of government re­sistance in Kirkuk, 140 miles north of Baghdad after "intense street fighting." 
They said they controlled the National Oil Co. and all oil fields and installations in Kirkuk. 
Today a Kurdish leader, Jalal Talabani, said the Kurds had taken more than 12,000 Iraqi prisoners of war in Kirkuk, and had captured government anti­aircraft batteries and artillery. 
"All the city is now in the hands of the Kurdish resistance movement," he said in a British Broadcasting Corp. interview from Damascus, Syria. 
Talabani said the Kurdish rebels would next try to take the city of Mosul, and would cooperate with Shiite rebels in the south to try to win control of the rest of the country. 
"We are discussing within the 
joint committee the idea of a 
salvation committee for the 
Iraqi people," he told the BBC. 
The Japanese videotape 
showed Kurdish soldiers riding 
on the backs of trucks, holding 
their rifles up in a victory 
salute. 
Others chanted "Kurdish 
control over Kurdish territory" 
and stepped together arm-in­
arm to perform what was de­
scribed as a "war dance." 
The announcer said the 
Japanese reporters were the 
first foreign journalists to enter 
Kirkuk since the rebel takeover. 
The report also showed what the newscaster said was a gov­ernment helicopter attacking the city. 
"The Iraqi army is attacking the city 'indiscriminately from the air using helicopter gun­ships and light aircraft," the Kurdistan Democratic Party said.' 
"Hundreds of civilian casual­ties have been inflicted on the city's population," it added. 
Another opposition group, the Supreme Assembly of the Islamic Revolution of Iraq, said that after the Kurds' victory, "government helicopters dropped acid on people demon­strating against the Baghdad regime, killing large numbers of them." 
The Assembly, based in Iran, serves as an umbrella for oppo­sition groups seeking to topple the war-weakened Saddam Hussein after the allied victory in the Persian Gulf War. 
Rebel claims that Saddam had used unconventional weapons to crush dissent have 
been impossible to verify. The 
United States has said it had no 
evidence that such weapons 
have been deployed. 
In a statement carried by the 

official Iranian media, the 
assembly said Saddam's loyal­
ist forces "used ground-to­
ground missiles, napalm bombs 
and chemical weapons against 
the people in Naj af, killing 
more than 15,000 people." 
The opposition also said 

Grand Ayatollah Abul-Hassan 
al-Khoei, the world's highest 
Shiite authority, has been ar­
rested in the strife-plagued city 
of Najaf and taken to Baghdad. 
Baghdad, is the most sacred 
site for Shiites. It houses the 
tomb of the founder of the sect, 
Imam Ali, Prophet 
Mohammed's son-in-law. 
The official Iraqi News 

Agency had reported 
Wednesday that Khoei had 
traveled to Baghdad, met with 
Saddam and expressed his sup­
port for the government's drive 
to crush dissent. 
INA, monitored in Nicosia, 

quoted Khoei as saying God 
"enabled President Saddam 
Hussein stamp out the sedi­
tion." The television showed 
mm of the meeting. 
It was the first time ever that 

a Shiite cleric had met with 
Saddam. The Shiites, who 
make up 55 percent of Iraq's 
17 million population, are 
violently opposed to the ruling 
clique. Saddam and his top 
aides are members of the 
minority Sunni Muslim sect. 
The Supreme Assembly for 

the Islamic Revolution in Iraq 
said Khoei, who is in his 80s, 
his son, Mohammed Taqi, and 
a number of other associates 
had been arrested in Najaf. 
Iran, which regards itself as 

the defender of the world's 100 
million Shiites, strongly 
protested the development. 
"The mercenary regime of ·Iraq has forcibly taken the 
Grand Ayatollah Abul-Kassem Khoei ... and insulted him," said a statement issued by the . office of Iran's spiritual leader, 
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. 
In his statement, carried by 

Tehran Radio, Khamenei 
ordered an investigation into 
the incident and said: "May 
God return the wickedness of 
the enemies of Islam... and 
grant victory to the Muslim 
nation oflraq." 
·t> 
as~~ ~}, 
AP Photo 

U.S. Army Sgt. John Kenney shares his lunch Wednesday wi.th a puppy named "MAE" (Meals-Ready to Eat), named for the rat1ons which U.S. troops ate during Operation Desert Storm. 
Soviet lawmakers urge republic to approve treaty 
MOSCOW (AP} -Lawmakers urged national and republic leaders on Thursday to use the recent referendum on preserv­ing the union as a springboard to approving a new treaty to join the republics. 
After a day of relatively calm debate, the Supreme Soviet leg­islature approved an eight­point resolution declaring that ''a majority of people (agreed} that the fate of the country's peoples is indivisible, that only through joint efforts will they be able to successfully resolve questions of economic, social and cultural development." 
The legislature had scheduled the referendum at the urging of President Mikhail Gorbachev. The resolution gave Gorbachev another card in his bid to hold the republics together under a new Union Treaty. 
Neither Gorbachev nor his chief foe, Russian Federation President Boris Yeltsin, have commented publicly on the re­sults of Sunday's referendum. 
Nine republics, including the huge Russian Federation, took part in the referendum; six boycotted it. More than 82 per­cent of the eligible voters in the nine republics cast ballots, with about 77 percent voting in fa­vor, referendum committee chairman Vladimir Orlov told lawmakers. • 
Applications available and due by WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27,1991 to the Student Government Secretary, 2nd floor LaFOrtune. Interviews will be scheduled.,; 
41"Mi~ . 

page 6 The Observer Friday, March 22, 1991 
No fifth-stars to be awarded to U.S. generals 
for the generals, he said. 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Gens. Military protocol rules out an Colin Powell and H. Norman extra star for Schwarzkopf Schwarzkopf may be rewarded alone. for their Gulf War victory with He and Powell are among 12 medals and new titles, but it's Army four-star generals. But less likely that five-star rank Schwarzkopf, as Central Com­will be bestowed upon them. mand field commander, is 
A fifth star, which requires outranked by Powell, chairman presidential approval and an of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. act of Congress, was last Powell would need a fifth star awarded in 1950 to Gen. Omar to stay ahead. Bradley. Likewise, Schwarzkopf is 
No five-stars emerged from outranked by Army Chief of the Korean or Vietnam wars. Staff Gen. Carl Vuono. And John And despite consensus that the Galvin, supreme commander of Persian Gulf military leaders NATO, has more troops under should be rewarded, it's un­his command. likely the 40-year drought will Possibly the highest ranking end. American military leader was 
"There's no need to do it," World War I Gen. John Persh­said one senior Pentagon mili­ing, whom Congress named tary official. "You'd be screwing General of the Armies in 1919. around with the entire military "It was like a six-star rank," structure and we never liked an said military historian Trevor imperial military." Dupuy, a retired Army colonel. 
Even at the White House, George Washington was where euphoria reigns in the awarded the same title in 1978 aftermath of the war, there was as part of the bicentennial cele­no sense of a fifth star. brations. 
..They're usually not given as Civil War generals Ulysses rewards, but as promotions to Grant and William Tecumseh people that are moving into Sherman were given the title significant positions," chief of General of the Army. But it staff John Sununu said recently. wasn't until 1944 that Congress "You may not" see another star enacted the first five-star ranks. 
of the law, and does not raid bars without probable cause.






S.U.D.S. 
"We're not out to harass busi­nesses who are operating
continued from page 1 
within the law," he said. gram in which the minor may Businesses can also be sub­receive a fine, community ser­ject to civil suits if minors or vice and probation, instead of a other intoxicated individuals direct sentence. are involved in an accident 
Other Class C Misdemeanors after leaving an establishment. include possession, consump­"If anything happens to minors tion or public transportation of who are drunk, we look at how alcoholic beverages by a minor. they got drunk, where they had Businesses can also commit been," Moon said. · Class C misdemeanors, by reck­Moon stressed that S.U.D.S. is lessly selling, bartering, ex­not just an enforcement agency. changing, providing or furnish­..My goal is not to go out and ing alcoholic beverages to mi­arrest every student that nors. drinks," he said. Education and 
Violation of the state laws can prevention play a vital role of result in a business having to the task force, and officers appear before the Alcoholic speak to groups at middle and Beverage Commission and a re­high schools, as well as schools view of its liquor license, ac­like Notre Dame. cording to Moon. ..The name of the game is to 
educate, to have responsible Moon explained that S.U.D.S. decisions coming out of people is working within the confm~_that are going_to use a drug." 
NOTRE DAME COMMlJNICATION AND THEATRE 
"SMART, AMBITIOU SATIRICAL" 
-David Ansen. NEWSWEEK 
"INTELLIGENT AND 
AUDACIOUS" 
-Caryn James. NEW YORK TIMES 
''A SOARING,
MULTIFACETED 

DELIGHT!' 
-She1la Benson. LOS ANGELES TIMES 
"BRILLIANT, A10. 
YOU'LL REIIEIIIER IT FOR YEARS TO COllE:' 
-Gary Franklin, KABC-TV 
Cinema at the Snlte 
TONIGHT AND SATURDAY 7:15, 9:45 

AP Photo
Bucharest demonstration 
A little girl joins her father and thousands of workers in a demonstration Wednesday in Bucharest to protest the National Salvation Front's scheduled price reforms. The reforms will more than double the price of food staples. The sign reads: "Market economy yes, but not at the price of our pauperization." 
AN INVITATION TO GRADUATING SENIORS TO ATTEND 



THE OFF -CAMPUS DINNER/DANCE 
also called ­

THE SENIOR SOLUTION 
FRIDAY---APRIL 19 I 1991 
7 p.m. to Midnight 
at St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall Western Ave. at Scott Street 
--SIT DOWN, FAMILY STYLE DINNER --DRINKS --GREAT BANDS 
THE COST: $25.00 A COUPLE --NO TUXEDOS ALLOWED -­If you did not buy a bid to the Senior Formal,why not iump on this attractive alternative fora truly festive time? 
Alimited number of tickets go on sale at the LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK from March 2S. 

---. 
page 7 The Observer Friday, March 22, 1991 

Some bars upset, others calm in reaction to S.U.D.S. 
cation at the bar's entrance 
Fridays and Saturdays during is."
starting at 11 p.m. Prior to theBridget's Linebacker the school year. The police offi­He called this situation

officer's arrival, a staff member cers, Neidlinger said, only take "nerve-wracking," since someBy KELLEY TUTHILL checks identifications. 

By PAUL PEARSON valid identifications and use a false identifications ("there are
Editor-in-Chief Under regulation from the 
Associate News Editor book containing license infor­some really good fake ones out
Alcohol Bureau of Control 
mation from all 50 states to there") do make it past the se­David McDonald, manager at (ABC), the bar must ask for two El Neidlinger, owner of the check identifications. curity.

Bridget's. believes his bar is a forms of identification with Linebacker Lounge, wishes that The result, she said, has been This is the reason Neidlingertarget for Stop Underage pictures, he said. 
the St. Joseph's County Stop a large amount of confiscated wishes that the S.U.D.S. taskDrinking and Sales (S.U.D.S.) "A big problem the night of Underage Drinking and Sales identifications. ''I've got a stack force was doing moreraids due to the large amount the raid was that the cops in­(S.U.D.S.) Task Force did more of them." prosecuting of underageof student patrons. structed the students that there to stop underage patrons in Neidlinger said that the police drinkers. "They don't pressOn Feb. 23, Bridget McGuire's would be a greater penalty for 
bars. officers are expensive, but charges when they take fake
Filling Station, 1025 South possession of a fake ID than for According to Neidlinger, the worth it. The Linebacker, she IDs, but they do press chargesBend Ave., was raided by task having no ID at all," McDonald task force has entered the said, gets many students during if we're caught with underageforce officers. This was the first explained. Therefore, all the Linebacker, 1631 South Bend the school year. "On Fridays drinkers in the bar."
time the bar had been raided in minors simply said they Ave., several times, but ..they and Saturdays, that's all therefive years, McDonald said. entered the bar with no identi­don't do anything." 
Officers, responding to a fication. 
Neidlinger credits them.
complaint of a fight, arrested McDonald said that the man­
Club 23

Linebacker's close scrutiny of Hussein, owner of the bar lo­77 for minor in tavern viola­agement of Bridget's does not 
identification for this. "They cated at 744 N. Notre Dame
tions. "Because we are a stu­know what will happen as a re­By KELLEY TUTHILL
say we (Linebacker) are the Ave., said that his lawyer is
dent bar, we are probably more sult of the February raid. He hardest place to get into with a Editor-in-Chief looking into the possibility of open to raids like this," Mc­said the action is still being de­fake (identification)." suing the students who wereDonald said. termined and guesses the bar The Linebacker has two uni­For Mo Hussein of Club 23 caught with false identifications He explained that Bridget's will not know anything for a the solution to the problem of
formed police officers at the in his bar. 
employs an off-duty South Bend while. 
minors in his bar may be suing

door on Mondays, Thursdays, On Feb. 23, the Stoppolice officer to check identifi-
Underage Drinking and Sales raids on area bars less than a were not from neighboring false IDs," McCormick said. (S.U.D.S.) task force respondedMcCormicks' week earlier, he and his em­businesses or concerned indi­The selective means by which to a complaint of underage ployees had reason to suspect a viduals, but from "officers minors are charged raises an drinking at Club 23 and 
By MONICA YANT 
visit from the police that night. driving by in cars" who saw the important question about the arrested 14 people on minor in 
News Editor 
"We knew they were going to large crowd inside. goals of S.U.D.S., McCormick tavern charges. come," said McCormick, "and McCormick said he was not said. "Are we really sincere "Why should we have to get a 
Sean McCormick learned a we were prepared." satisfied with Moon's explana­about stopping underage penalty for those using fake lesson about careful checking The raid, which netted four tion of the probable cause. drinking, or are we just trying IDs?" Hussein asked. He be­of identification-the hard arrests for minor in tavern, oc­"This whole thing is a scam," to harass tavern owners?" he lieves that suing the students way. curred on a Thursday, tradi­he said. ''I'm fed up by getting asked. would set an example for those 
McCormick, one of the part­
tionally a busy night for Mc­busted by secret police organi­According to Moon, it is up to who use false identification to ner's of McCormicks' Coney Is­Cormicks' due to specials on zations with gestapo tactics." each individual officer to decide get into bars. land, 125 N. Michigan, was the imported beer, according to "It's not right that just be­if multiple tickets will be issued Philip Faccenda, University target of a raid by Stop McCormick. ' cause we had a large group of for violations that are within general counsel, was unavail­Underage Drinking and Sales "We don't think of ourselves Notre Dame and Saint Mary's the same class of violation. Both able for comment on this mat­(S.U.D.S.) task force two years as a student bar," he said. students in the bar (we were minor in tavern and possession ter on Thursday.ago. The bar was shut down for "Thursday nights are the only raided)," he said. "The message of false identification are Class Hussein believes there was a three days and fined $2500. nights when students come in is that anywhere that students C Misdemeanors. lot of politics involved in the re­
"We were unquestionably to large numbers." go on a particular night, that McCormick said McCormicks' cent raids on bars and ..there's blame," he said. The bar did The numbers were large, Mc­place is going to be singled out will most likely be fined a sig­nothing you can do about it." 
not have an employee checking Cormick said, as about 200 by excise police." nificant amount of money, un­He explained that, since this is patrons at the back door, and 
people crowded the bar that When McCormick does have less the bar decides to fight the a mayoral election year, there the band playing that evening night. But finding only four un­students as customers, they are charge in court. "What will is a lot of pressure on officials had drawn a larger crowd of derage patrons out of 200 peo­always polite and responsible, happen is that we'll get a to stop underage drinking.students than usual. ple is, "pretty astounding for he said. "We're glad to have lawyer, go to court, get off and Club 23, however, has a very
Since the raid, McCormick any establishment," he said. students, because they're great spend a lot of money." strict policy of checking two 
said his business has been 
McCormick expressed con­customers. And we've not had The bar will also face the lo­picture IDs, Hussein said. "We 
"very, very careful" about 
cern about the probable cause one incident of trouble with cal Alcohol Beverage Commis­don't allow minors in at all." He checking identification. Mc­given by the police who con­them." sion, which has the autonomy is especially confident about his Cormicks' has a veteran South ducted the raid. "They said McCormick also expressed to decide punishments that business because most of his Bend police officer working the complaints were received," he concern over the methods used range from fines to closing customers are "regulars."
front door and an employee 
said. "Why didn't they say by officers who cited the under­establishments, he said. According to Hussein, his bar watching the back door at all where, when and how they age patrons. Of the four minors When the bar was raided two has not had any problems with times. were received?" cited the night of the February years ago, McCormick did not raids in the last three years. He 
So when the bar was raided 
After speaking with Sgt. raid, three were in possession have these concerns. "We were also said that the recent raid again this year on Feb. 28 after James Moon of the S.U.D.S. di­of false identification. All four wrong, and we paid our debt to was minimal compared to the 
suspicion of underage patrons, vision, McCormick said he was were cited for minor in tavern, society." This year, he cannot arrests at Bridget's.
McCormick was concerned. informed that the complaints yet ..no tickets were given for say the same. ..Everybody who was caught here was a minor with a fake ID. How can we control that when you can't tell the ID is fake?" said Hussein. His bar employs a police officer to work the door four nights a week. Coincidentally, the police officer did not show up for work the night of the raid, he said. 
Hussein said he still does not know if or how much Club 23 will be fined. Part of his de­fense, though, will be that the bar has a camera at the door which shows employees asking customers for IDs. 
Hussein is proud of his establishment and said that in four years there has never been a fight at Club 23. Most of his clients are students, and he be­lieves "the best of ND comes here." 
•

You can get the ''Best P1zza 1n Town'' 
Because of two unexpected 

~TUDENTS, FACULTY, & STAFF 

This Limited Edition Collectors Stein is now available to YOU at a GREATLY reduced price f I! 
Will make for ideal Commencement and parting gifts. 
STOP IN NOW 
United 
~ 
~~ 

$8.29 (Sets of Reduced) For All You This Stein's Fo YOU! 
Classic From The King Of Beers• 


..J;'·· 
And you thought that no one used Macintosh in the real world. 








BBDO

oow-Ernst &Young 

acintos 
• ax1m1ze 
our 
otentia 
. 


Here's your chance to win a Macintosh SE! 
1. First, look for the Mystery Mac Siting on March 25  2. Then proceed to the Hayes-Healy  
in one of the following campus locations:  computer cluster from March 26-29  
A. ·the Huddle  to register to win with the correct siting.  


Araffle will be held in April from all
B. South Dining Hall 

correct entries.
C. Hayes-Healy lobby 
D. Fieldhouse Mall 
G R 0 U P 

Friday, March 22, 1991 The Observer page 9 

NASA to cut $8 billion from Space Station project funding 


WASHINGTON (AP) -Bow­ing to congressional demands for economy, NASA is cutting $8 billion from its proposed space station project, reducing its size and delaying completion until the year 2000. 
The cutback design, to be made public today, was de­nounced in advance by scien­tists who see it as a waste of money. Sen. Albert Gore, D­Tenn., said his space subcom­mittee will do "some intense work on this project" when hearings begin next month. 
Engineers for the National Aeronautics and Space Admin­istration spent five feverish months in the effort to trim costs that already exceed $3.8 billion for studies and prototype parts since President Reagan proposed the station in 1984. 
Congress last year ordered NASA to slash $6 billion from the project through 1996 and put a yearly cap of $2.6 billion on spending. In an in-house study, the agency found that just maintaining the station in Earth orbit would require up to 3,700 hours of space walks by astronauts. 
The new design envisions cut­ting that back drastically through snap-together trusses that have electrical and other components built in. The living and working modules also would be outfitted on the ground, rather than in space. 
The space station that Rea­gan proposed -and named "Freedom"-was to have been 
Sen. Albert Gore 
put into orbit by 1994 at a cost · of $8 billion. The price, how­ever, continued to escalate with the years, to $38.3 billion most recently. The frrst construction flight was scheduled for 1995. 
Under the new plans, the cost would be $30 billion and the first launch of station parts aboard the space shuttle would be in the first three months of 1996. 
Most recently, NASA had planned to have the station assembled by June 1996 to the point where astronauts would visit it periodically to check out experiments and start new ones. The new "man-tended capability" now is scheduled in the second quarter of 1997. 
Plans were to have eight as­tronauts begin living in the station in July 1997. Under the redesign, the station will ac­commodate only four astro­nauts -and not until the year 2000. 
The overall length has been reduced by nearly half a foot­ball field -from 493 feet to 353 feet -and the living and 

Plummer and Dorfman to present concert March 24 
Special to The Observer 
Violist Kathryn Plummer and pianist Amy Dorfman will pre­sent a concert March 24 {Sunday) at 2 p.m. in the An­nenberg Auditorium of the Notre Dame Snite Museum of Art. 
Included on the program are "Five Old French Dances for Viola and Piano" by Marin Marais, "Concertpiece for Viola and Piano" by George Enesco, "Fantasie for Viola and Piano" by Johann Nepomuk Hummer, "Trauermusik for Viola and Pi­ano" by Paul Hindenmith, and "Suite hebraique" by Ernest Block. 
Plummer, whose sister is vio­linist Carolyn Plummer associ­ate professor of music at Notre Dame, is widely recognized throughout the United States and Europe for her recital artistry. She has performed as a soloist at the national Gallery of Art in Washington D.C., on national Public Radio and in Al­ice Tully Hall. 
As a former violist of the Blair String Quartet, she has presented many world premiers and recorded serveral highly acclaimed albums and pre­sented several world premiers. In addition, she gave the world premier of Alan Shulman's "Variations for Viola, Harp and Strings" at the Fourteenth In­ternational Viola Conference. 
Plummer performs each summer with the Festival Der Zukunft in Ernen, Switzerland, and in 1989 she taught and 



SQUASH CLINIC 
TUESDAY, MARCH 26 JACC SQUASH COURTS 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS CLINIC NOON-1 PM OPEN TO ALL INDIVIDUAL INSTRUCTION 1 :00 • 4:00PM CLINIC 6:00 • 7:00PM STUDENTS ONLY ALL SESSIONS FREE OF CHARGE REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT NVA 239-5100 
PRESENTED BY THE UNITED STATES SQUASH RACQUETS ASSOCIATION AND NVA 
FEATURING COACHES FROM THE U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY AND PRINCETON UNIVERSITY NOVICE AND ADVANCED PLAYERS WELCOME 
working modules from 44 feet to 27 feet. 
Under the old plan, 34 flights would have been required to complete the station. That number has been cut to be­tween 23 and 26, at the rate of three a year. 
The redesign was submitted to the National Research Coun­cil's Space Studies board, which said last Friday that it "does not meet the basic research re­quirements of the two principal scientific disciplines for which it is intended." 
Vice President Dan Quayle met with members of Congress on space committees Wednes­day in an effort to sell the new design. He made public a letter to NASA Administrator Richard Truly that took note of the grumbling among scientists. 
"This argument is not entirely appropriate," Quayle wrote. "The space station un­questionably can make a valu­able research contribution -a contribution that becomes more cost-effective in the latter stages of the station's devel­opment." 
Those requirements are life sciences research to study how humans would adapt to long space flights and microgravity, 

Trimming Space Station "Freedom" 
j 
Original Design 
Truss segments built in orbit 
New Design 
Truss segments 
built and checked 
out on Earth,

Configuration in 
assembled in orbit

fiscal year 2000 
NEW BEFORE BUDGETSPECIFICATIONS DESIGN REDUCTIONS 
• 
Cost 

• 
Crew 

• 
Length of pressurized module 

• 
Overall length of truss 

• 
Shuttle flights needed to build 

• 
Initial flight (year) 

• 
Permanently manned (year) 


$30 billion $38.3 billion 4 8 
27ft. 44ft. 353ft. 493ft. 23-26 34 
1996 1995 
2000 1997 
which uses nea~zero gravhy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~P·IK-ar~IT~a~te
Source: NASA 
conditions to purify chemicals, grow crystals and create new The newspaper said it ob­confirm the statement.

medicines. 

tained a report from Bromley's "President Bush and I areThe office of White House office saying that plans don't prepared to make the commit­science adviser Allan Bromley "come close to justifying the ment to build a permanentlyalso counseled against the sta­
cost and effort required to manned space station in this
tion, according to Space News, build, deploy and operate the decade," Quayle said. "We arean industry newspaper. 

station." The office would not convinced of its merit." 
performed with the Curs Inter­national de Musica de Vic in Spain. 
She also has been a guest artist with the Anchorage Music Festival, the Sitka Music Festival, the Winter Classics Series in Alaska, the Richard­son Chamber Music Festival in Dallas, and the Seattle Chamber Music Festival. She has performed with the Wahlweiser Musikwochen Festival in Ger­many and the St. Cere Festival in France as well. 
Plummer studied with David Dawson and William Primrose at Indiana University and Wal­ter Trampler at the Juilliard School of Music. She was assis­tant principal violist with the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra 


EVE-4:45-7:3o-9:45


HARD WAY 

SAT/SUN-1 :45
MIAifll fD JllllWill 

[!!] 

and principal violist with the Aspen Chamber Symphony and the Peninsula Music Festival Orchestra. 
She is a professor in the Blair School of Music at Vanderbilt University and previously a professor at the Oberlin Con­servatory of music at Oberlin College. She has recorded for the Orpheus, Red Mark, Varese, Sarabande, Pantheon, and Ga­paro labels. 
The viola played by Plummer was crafted in 1707 by Giovanni Grancino in Milan. Made for royalty, the viola is adorned with a coat of arms and with double purfling enclosing a painted border of sound holes. 
Amy Dorfman, pianist, has performed as a soloist and 

liENAGE MUTAIII 

julia roberts
NIIIJAnJRTLES :0: 

sleeping with
THE SECRET Of THE OOZE 


the enemy oo
Radically New! ffi 

EVE-4:45-7:3CJ.9:45
EVE-4:30-6~:45 

SAT/SUN-1:15SAT/SUN-12:00-2:15 



CLASSACDON 
GENE HACKMAN MARY ELIZABETH MASTRANTONIO ~ 
EVE-4:3Q.7:00.9:30 
SAT/SU~_1:30 
Tt-IE 

9
lhB 5iiBRCB SAT/SUN·2:r! :45 of lhB lambs 
jodie ~ foster 

,_.liD 
chamber musician throughout the United States and Europe. She has appeared at the Sedona Music Festival in Arizona and at annual summer festivals in Germany. 
A first prize winner in the Fischoff Chamber Music Com­petitions in South Bend, she re­ceived the coveted Performer's Certificate from the Indiana School of music, where she studied with James Tocco and Alphonso Montecino. She is a touring artist for the Tennessee Arts Commission and currently serves on the faculty of the Blair School of Music at Van­derbilt University. 
Admission to the concert is $5 for the general public and $2 for students and senior citizens. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS l\1ADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSfllUTION OF THE UNITED SfATES. lliE CONSfiTIJTION 
'D1c w,,rds we lin~ ~· 

I . .• 1----·-.l .. -··l t •••••. \\,,,,._., ... 
., 
r·. \. ·· .. .·n1 I, 'r ·,~ .. I·~ l 'l ·I.'A, ~, 
IMMIGRATION LAW PRAOICIONERS
,. ,,...,,. GRESI ....SftGI.OOI,_ .... ,1...46214 
DJn04-f111 
IIIIIIIIHIIIc ha. 
..·~...
---PIIIIII•c.. ·-" 



Viewpoint 
Friday, March 22, 1991
page 10 

-Ih--e-Obs-... e~~er--,
-. -. &-=Y~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilberte Gomez 
News Editor ..••..••...•..•.•.•••.•Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor....•..••..•...... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor .••...•.••.•...David Dieteman Production Manager ............Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
It's time for SUFR to 
change 1t's tune 
It's been three months and a day since Students United for Respect (SUFR) made its presence known on the Notre Dame campus through the presentation of a list of demands to Patricia O'Hara, VIce president for Student Affairs. In re­sponse to the fact that these demands had not been met by the March 19 deadline, SUFR held a press conference Wednesday in LaFortune Student Center to express their continued dismay at the University's refusal to address their demands. 
After three months of SUFR-inspired dialogue between the Administration and ethnic students on campus, one thing has become clear: It's time for SUFR to change it's tune. 
Wednesday's press conference proved only to be a forum for more of SUFR's rhetoric, including more empty threats. Once again SUFR promised "further action" if demands weren't met, yet failed to specify what they would do, claim­in~ that doing so might hurt the group. 
Its obvious that SUFR needs a strategy with long-term goals. Members say that the group wants to make the stu­dent body more aware of SUFR and its goals. Continued repetition of old demands, however, does not help clarify anything except the fact that SUFR has no clear agenda. 
SUFR member Azikiwe Chandler said at the press confer­ence: "We realize at this point that we need confrontation." We disagree. For the student body to become more aware of SUFR and for the administration to become more receptive to the group's goals, members have got to stop making de­mands and start doing their homework. 
When a female student decided the campus was unsafe and needed an escort service, she did not merely demand that the University comply with her request. She researched services at other schools, compiled financial reports and submitted a proposal to the administration with the help of Student Government. 
SUFR could, for example, start looking into multicultural centers at other schools and gather material for a proposal to the administration. A proposal that does not merely de­mand a building upon a certain date, but explains how such a space could be found or built, clarifying feasible sources of funding and detailing the social ramifications of such a ven­ture at other schools. 
SUFR members have gotten the attention of the school that they feel "disrespects" them. Obviously, why else would they be able to use University space for a press conference despite their "unrecognized" status. Now it's time for mem­bers to set an agenda and make researched proposals to the administration. Confrontation obviously isn't working-it's time for SUFR to get a new strategy. 
DOOIIESBURY 
/OllEY, ltr'5 APMIT 
/T, lflt'/?e ON A 
ROU-816 TIM&! 
ANVITAIN'TtiJNNA 
QUIT 500N! 

l 
j 
} 
) 
I 
j J I 

Grieving the evil, or glossing the ego: America's arrogant post-war reaction 
Dear Editor: 
Where is the sorrow? ... Where is the mourning?...Where is the remorse? 
During the recent conflict against Iraq there was much debate over the decision of whether or not ot go to war. As it turned out, the argument in favor of war was chosen. Those advocating the pro-war stance used the Just-War tradition to explain and justify that this war was a "necessary evil." 
The pro-war lobby argued that the war was an evil that must be committed in order to prevent a still greater evil. 
Today, however, Americans' patriotism and pride overshadow the regrettable evil that we committed. Instead of mourning the failure of peace, Americans celebrate victory with arrogance and jubilation. With no visible sign of respect for the war's dead, George Bush gleefully proclaims that America has "kicked the Vietnam syndrome." Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf bottles Kuwaiti sand as a keep-sake of his glorious victory. Ticker-tape parades praise the wonders of America's 100 day war. Students, Professors, Factory workers and children alike wave their six-inch American flags as tears of pride swell in the corner of their eyes. Throngs of self-glorified Americans chant, "U.S.A.," praising our victory with a nostalgic recapturing of a faded American spirit of superiority and self-esteem. 
Suddently, the evil of this war has vanished. The war is no longer an evil, but is glorified and worshiped as a holy triumph, and panacea for a deteriorating superpower, a faltering economy, and a bruised Americna pride. 

But how can Americnas have pride and cheer for what they admitted was a necessary evil? Where is the sorrow fior this evil? Where is the regret for the failure of peace? Where is the grieving for the 100,000 plus Iraqi soldiers and civilians who were killed by American bombardment? Where is the remose for the thpsands of children who, it is predicted, will die of cholera because of American shelling which destroyed the Iraqi sewage system? Where is the concern for· the thousands of unwanted refugees? Where is the mourning? Where is the compassion? Why isn't America grieving? Or, better asked, how can America be cheering? 
. I wonder if American eyes would tear with the same unabashed pride while standing at the foot of mass Iraqi graves? I wonder if Americans would gleefully wave their flags in the face of Iraqi widows, whose conscripted husbands and sons spent their last living hours starving in a bunker, before being exploded and burned beyond recognition by American bombs? I wonder if George Bush's eyes would beam quite as bright and his smile stretch nearly as wide while beholding the remains of an Iraqi mother and daughter being pulled out of an American destroyed bomb shelter? I wonder if our marching bands in our ticker­tape parades would play quite as loudly amidst the stench of overflowing Iraqi sewers, and the rotting human flesh? 
I am writing to say that I am sick with grief. I grieve this war, for all those killed or injured; for the devastating destruction; and especially for the spiritual death occurring in our society. I need to say that war should never be celebrated, even if you think it (war) a necessity. I am frightened that Americans are worshiping the God-of-War, and I dread to think whom this God will call next. 
Should this war, should any war be a source of 'pride and euphoria, or should be, at best, a necessary evil? Has America forgotten that war itself is a failure of peace, and a cause for mourning, not rejoicing? Will America pride blind our conscience from compassion? Will a necessary evil be praised as an absolute god? The past month and a half have caused me to despair in what I think are America's answers to these questions. 
Until we can consider all war, no matter how "just" or how "successful" as a failure to be mourned, we will continue to fight them. I ask all Americans to stop applauding, to show compassion, and to mourn the failure and destruction of this and every war. 
Mark A. Kramer 
Brownson Hall 
March 21, 1991 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
~XACTAMEN70.' 
501<TOF 010 YOU PAY UK& CFF THtMIUTIA us. TH/5 weE3I<.~ 
I \ 
'Better to be celibate by choice than by default." 
W.T. Williams 

QUOTES. P. 0. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 

Viewpoint

Friday, March 22, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Saint Mary's Recycles' program asks for support 
Students can contribute by recycling and collecting 
Dear Editor: 

In the relatively short time humans have inhabited the earth, we have significantly af­fected and altered the natural environment that sustains us. In this, the "environmental decade" of the 1990's, we face mounting environmental crises that demand our attention. Air, water, and soil pollution, over­flowing landfills, toxic contam­ination, widespread ozone de­pletion, increased global warming, deforestation and de­sertification, the looming nu­clear threat and diminishing resources-the threats posed to our earth are numerous and overwhelming. 
Many thousands of people have become involved in the movement to halt environmental destruction; as students, we, too, can make a significant contribution. The aluminum recycling program at Saint Mary's gives each one of us the opportunity to make an impact in a very simple yet important way; to demonstrate in our everyday actions the recycling slogan: "Think Globally, Act Locally." 
Simply stated, Americans consume a disproportionate amount of the world's re­sources and generate a dispro­portionate amount of the world's waste. Author Jeremy Rifkin asserts that "with less than 5 % of the world' popula­tion, we generate 25 % of its pollutants and more than 30 % of its garbage." In our throw­away society, which endorses convenient and disposable con­sumer goods, we toss out at least 3.5 pounds of garbage per person every day. 
According to Will Steger, 
.. author of 'Saving the Earth,' at least 1/3 of this garbage could be recycled. In The Green Consumer, John Elkington goes one step further, to say that "most of what we throw into landfills can be recycled, turned into compost, or otherwise disposed of safely." The situation is not yet hope­less, and campuses, industries, cities and states across the na­tion have begun to implement recycling programs of their own in order to combat dimin­ishing landfill space and rising disposal costs. 
Recycling programs are an important part of the solution to the environmental crisis by cutting waste, pollution and en­ergy consumption. Aluminum recycling, in particular, offers the opportunity to reduce enormous amounts of each of these. Ruth Caplan, Executive Director of Environmental Ac­tion, lnG. suggests that "recycling saves energy and natural resources. It also re­duces the huge amounts of air, land and water pollution asso­ciated with raw materials' ex­traction, processing and trans­portation." Because reducing energy use and the consump­tion of natural resources means 


reducing the burning of fossil fuels, recycling also means reducing global warming which is high on the agenda of many environmentalists. 
Aluminum is produced from bauxite ore, which is mined dom the surface much of it in tropical rainforest areas. It is expensive and highly polluting to produce. According to the 1990 Earth Day Fact Sheet on recycling, Americans throw away more than 35 billion aluminum cans-the energy equivalent of 150 Exxon Valdez oil spills every year. On a smaller scale, every time an aluminum can is thrown away, the energy equivalent of half that can filled with gasoline is wasted. 
Jeffrey Hollender asserts that a can made from recycled aluminum will have taken 95 % less energy to produce, and generated 95% less air pollution and 97 % less water pollution than one made from raw materials. At this point in time, Americans recycle about 55 % of aluminum cans, or about 1. 5 billion pounds of aluminum, every year. Thus, each person who contributes to recycling is integral to the overall efforts to preserve the planet. 
This personal commitment to local action and global consid­eration is manifested in the Saint Mary's recycling program. In October of 1990, the Saint Mary's College Recycling Committee submitted a proposal to the Administration outline the recycling program and stating that "Saint Mary's College is in an ideal position to provide environmental leader­ship into the 1990's and be­yond.,. Students assumed the responsibility for implementing the program and formed the Saint Mary's Recycling Club to encourage student involvement and education. Those who take responsibility for the continua­tion of the program accept the role of leaders on the campus and serve as examples to the community of our dedication to this effort. 
To date, after approximately 20 weeks of operation, over 80,00 aluminum cans have been recycled on the Saint Mary's campus through the efforts of students, faculty, administrators and staff. However, despite the opportunity to recycle, large amounts of recyclable aluminum cans are continually thrown away on campus. 
From an environmental standpoint, it is in our best in­terest to recycle what we can, whenever we can, wherever we can, in order to reduce waste and pollution. As more and more cities and states mandate recycling programs and pro­hibit recyclables from landfills, "Saint Mary's Recycles' pro­vides us with the opportunity to make a personal contribution to the national and global recy­cling efforts. White cardboard receptacles with the red recy­cling logo printed on them are placed in every building on the Saint Mary's campus. 

Students who elect to partici­pate in the program at the Saint Mary's Recycling Club level need dedication and a sense of commitment. As the Administration reviews the suc­cess of the program, part of the evaluation will be based on the level of student involvement in the overall effort. At this point, students have asserted a considerable amount of auton­omy in the implementation of the Saint Mary's Recycling Committee's suggestion. But dedication to the program on the student level needs to con­tinue if that autonomy is to be retained. 
On all levels, students have the opportunity to get involved in this effort-from simply depositing our aluminum cans in the recycling bins instead of the trash dumpsters or garbage cans, to taking responsibility for collecting cans in a section of the residence halls or the classroom buildings, to becoming a building coordinator or running for club office in the coming weeks. 
As we look towards the future of the Saint Mary's recycling program, it is our desire to begin a newspaper and mixed paper collection program as well as the aluminum recycling program. However, a paper recycling program is much more complex, though by no means of less value or im­possible. The Saint Mary's Re­cycling Committee has already begun to investigate the factors contributing to the complexity of a paper collection program, and we expect to prepare a proposal for the Fall semester of 1991. 
However, we don't have to wait until Fall to begin cutting paper waste, and we can start or continue conserving other materials as well. In order to augment the aluminum recy­cling program in place and in the spirit of waste reduction and sustainability, there are numerous ways for students to reduce their consumption and waste. Practical and achievable examples of source reduction ("precycling") are: 
1. We can establish central posting locations for general campus information, campaign posters, or campus events in the mailrooms of the residence halls, the off-campus lounge, the dining hall, student gov­ernment, residence hall bulletin boards and faculty lounges/mailrooms to diminish the amount of unnecessary general mailings we receive ev­ery day. 
2. 
We can consistently copy messages, articles, or informa­tion that is distributed on both sides of each page to further reduce paper waste. 

3. 
We can write to the "Mail Preference Service" of the Di­rect Marketing Association, P.O. Box 3861, New York, NY 10163-3861 to reduce the amount of "junk mail" we re­ceive every day. (notify the dis­tributors of your favorite cata­logs, e.g. Spiegel, Casual Corner, Avon, etc. to continue receiving those.) 

4. 
We can use paper with re­cycled content in order to re­duce our consumption of raw materials and contribution to deforestation. 

5. 
We can buy products with the least amount of packaging, packaged in recycled or recy­clable materials, or in refillable or reusable containers. We can also buy in bulk to cut waste. 

6. 
We can educate ourselves to know what can be recycled, what is truly (and safely) biodegradable, and how to avoid "throwaway" products. 


Our Native American sisters remind us that "we do not in­herit the Earth. We borrow it from our children." Future generations will inherit the consequences of our mistakes if we do not begin to correct our wasteful and hyper-consump­tive habits. Recycling is one part of living a rich yet simple life, filled with an appreciation for our Earth and her bounty, without contributing to the de­struction of that which sustains us. As students, living with in­tegrity, compassion and a phi­losophy of sustainability, we have the incredible potential to slow and repair the damage done to the environment. the only question left to ask is. "Will we?" 
Teresa Lynch Co-Chairwoman, Women for the Environment Co-Coordinator, Saint Mary's Earth Day 1991 McCandless Hall March 18, 1991 







'I 
~ 
( 
( 
i' 
l' 
p 
/ 
r 
i 
I 
I 
MARCH 22-24 


weekend calendar
i,· 

MUSIC 

Atone 440, Center Street Blues Cafe,· 9:30 p;m. 
Cbronlc Desire, Mceormick's,10:00 p.(ll, 
Jester, Club23, 1o:oo p.m. 
Verada, Grace Coffeehouse1 8:00 p.rn. 

EVENTS

a-.Club Spring Concert, WaShington t-tan. 8:15p.m. Starlight Express (Broacfwey.Theatre League), 
JACC, 81>0 p.m. 

South Bend Chamber Singers, Church of Loretto. 
Saint Mary's College, 8:00 p.m. 
sa 



MUSIC 

SUn Messengers, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
Bob, Rob, and The Flannel, Club 23, 10:00 p.m. 
Darkroom, Grace Coffeehouse, 9;30 p.m. 

EVENTS 

Mr. Stanford Contest, Washington Halt, 7:30 p.m. 
Starlight Expre&s (Broadway Theatre League), 
JACC, 2:00 & 8:00 p.m. 
Concert (Soprano Loretta Robinson and piantist, 
Jeffrey Jacob), little Theatre, Saint Mary's College, 
8~00 p.m. 


y 
EVENTS 

Patchwork Dance Company, o•L.aughJin Auditorium, 
Saint Mary's College, 2:00 p.m. 
Voices of Faith Spring Concert, Washington Hall, 
7:00p.m. 

Sblrllght Express (Broadway Theatre League}, 
JACC, 1:30 & 7:00 p.m. 
VIola and Plano Recital (Kathryn Plummer and Amy 
Dorfman) Annenburg Auditorium, Snite, 2:00 p.m. 



FRIDAY 

"Jesus of Montreal," Annenburg Auditorium, 7~15 & 9:45p.m. "Three Men and a Uttle Lady." Cushing Auditorium. 
7:30 & 9:45 p.m. 


SATURDAY 

"Jesus of Montreal," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. "Three Men and a Little Lady," Cushing Auditorium, 
7:30 & 9:45 p.m. 

For dinner, dancing or games, South Bend turns to Meanwhile... 
T 
ired of popcorn at The Commons? Is The Linebacker's small dance floor inhibiting your John Travolta moves? Is Club 23 just too smoky for you? 
If your nightlife is falling into a rut, get ready for "Meanwhile... ," South Bend's new nightclub. 
The nightclub, which its own­ers call "a multifaceted enter­tainment complex," consists of a restaurant, a video arcade, a casino (with play money) and a dancing area. 
Located Downtown at 222 South Michigan, the club fills the space left vacant by an old 
J.C. Penney Co. Store-and it was no small store. 
The building consists of 55,000 square feet of space. Renovating the 32,000 square feet that Meanwhile... occupies cost $4.5 million. 
Meanwhile ... is owned by William Kalamaras and Roland Casati, who also own several nightclubs in the Chicago sub­urbs. 
"Meanwhile in the Grill ... " is a restaurant with casual atmo­sphere and moderate prices. 
Dinner entrees range from $8.95 for Chicken Parmigiana to $14.95 for Roast Rack of Lamb. Salads, sandwiches, ap­petizers and burgers are also available, all at very affordable prices, as well as a selection of wines. 
The building's basement is home to an area that will be known as "Meanwhile in the Arcade ... " 
The arcade features video games and pinball machines to 

.
.
.. 
.• 
~--------------------------~ . 
Adorning walls throughout the complex is "Mr. Meanwhile," the club's namesake created by graphic artist Bruno Watel. 
keep young children busy while their parents dine and dance or to keep college students busy between drinks. 
The main entertainment area has space for 1,500 people and features a stainless steel dance floor flanked by two terraces. 
A $400,000 lighting system consists of tracks of lights in the floor and lights and strobes hanging from the ceiling. 
Video screens, fog and con­fetti are all here too, making it a heaven for anyone with 
"Saturday Night Fever." Future ,..""~-~~~·~
entertainment will include disc jockeys and live entertainment. 
You might be saying "Yeah, all that sounds nice, but what about the BARS?" If your main concern is procuring liquor, the club area's six bars should make for short lines and many beverages. 
If your vice is gambling and not alcohol, "Meanwhile in the Casino... " offers pool tables, darts, shuffle board and a gaming table with play money. 
The club is named for "Mr. Meanwhile," a cartoon charac­ter created by graphic designer Bruno Watel to serve as a theme for the club. 
The three sections of the club are called, "Meanwhile in the Nite Club ... ," "Meanwhile in the Grill ... " and "Meanwhile in the Casino ... " Mr. Meanwhile and a cast of supporting characters are featured throughout the club on menus, walls and logos. 
The club opened its doors on March 6 with a V.I.P. opening. It opened to the public on March 7. 
Report compiled by John O'Brien. 

GEniNG THERE 
• 
Driving: Take 31/33 south into downtown. Follow 31 right as it splits into Main and St. Joseph. You are now on Main, aone-way street going south. Follow Main until you reach Jefferson, and go East (right) one block to Michigan. Take another! right and Meanwhile... is about one half block on your left. 

• 
Parking: There are afew parking spaces along Michigan, but don't get your hopes up. Conveniently, 


here is aparking garage one half block east on Wayne. 
·.·...,, .....__.._... 
Patrons of Meanwhile ... can enjoy a playing pool in the gaming area lik~ (above) or dancing on the spacious, s1 nightclub area (below). 

~ 
l~ 



page 13 


ALOOK AT MEANWHILE ... 

•Hours: Restaurant: Every day from 11 a.m to 11 p.m. Lunch served 11 a.m. to 4p.m., dinner from 4 p.m. on. Nightclub and upper level arcade: Tuesday through Saturday 4p.m. to 3a.m. Closed Sunday and Monday. Free buffet from 4to 7p.m. daily. Lower level arcade: 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 11 a.m. to 2a.m. Fridays and Saturdays, and 11 a.m. to 9p.m. on Sunday. 
•Cover charge (for nightclub): $1 from 4to 7p.m. daily (buffet included), $2 from 7p.m. until closing on weekdays, and $3 from 7p.m. until closing on weekends. 
•Drink 
prices: $2 for abottled domestic beer, $2.25-$3 for a mixed drink. 

• 
Game prices: Pool: $10 an hour plus $25 deposit. Shuffleboard: $5 an hour. Video games: Prices vary, but bring lots of singles for the token machine. 

•Food 
prices: Bugers and sandwiches run around $5 to $6, dinner entrees from $9 to $15. 


•Entertainment: Disc jockey, with live acts planned for the near future. 
•Dress 
code: Nicer than the average ND/SMC bar. "No jeans with holes or 'holey' sweatshirts" according to aclub spokesman. Also, men should wear shirts with collars. 

•Special 
features: Dance floor with elevated dance platforms, spotlights, strobes, video screens, and fog machine. 

• 
Phone number: 234-5200 


Observer photos by Kenneth Osgood 


Meanwhile... won't 
disappoint diehard dancers, partiers 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Accent Editor 
_, . he only way to
. •
~· d e s c r i b e ~> Meanwhile ... is to 'B.* say that it is nothing
T
. like you've ever seen 
before-at least in South Bend. 
It is no wonder that it has at­
tracted the crowds that it has 
since it opened three weeks 
ago. 

Meanwhile ... is very big: lots 
of bar space, big dance floor 
and lots of "scoping" areas. It 
resembles the type of nightclub 
you would see in big cities. 
If you're looking for some­
thing different, you won't be 
disappointed. Although it's a 
little more upscale (and a bit • 
more pricey) than other bars 
frequented by ND/SMC stu­
dents, it's definitely a good 
time. 

Meanwhile ... has three differ­
ent sections: a restaurant, a 
nightclub area and an ar­
cade/gaming section. Although 
we spent more time in the, 
ahem, nightclub area, I was 
also able to take a look at the 
restaurant. 
To get to the restaurant, you 
enter the building through the 
Michigan Street entrance. Dec­
orated with western decor and 
pictures of "Mr. Meanwhile," 
the restaurant offers casual 
dining. 

The prices were fairly rea­
sonable, though more 
expensive than many area 
restaurants. Burgers and 
sandwiches cost around $5 to 
$6 and dinner entrees run from 
$9 to $15. It's not cheap, but it's 
less than you'd pay at similar 
places in New York or Chicago. 
While the subject of cost is at hand, be cautioned to bring a fat wallet if you're going for a night. Drinks are slightly more expensive than, say, The Com­mons ($2 for a bottle of beer and $2.25 to $3 for a mixed drink) and other activities will cost you, too. 
These other activities include the gaming portion of the club, which features pinball, video games, pool and shuffleboard. However, if you're into billiards, Meanwhile ... might not be your place. With a $25 deposit and a $10 and hour rental fee, few casual pool sharks will be playing billiards. Shuffleboard will cost you $5 and hour, too. 
There is a cover charge every night, too. From Tuesday to Saturday, the club is open from 4 p.m. to 3 a.m. From 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., a $1 cover charge will entitle you to an all-you-can-eat buffet. After 7, the cover is $2 on weekdays and $3 on week­ends. 
To enter the nightclub portion of the club, you have to enter to the side of the building, down an alley. Don't worry, though, it's well lit and "Mr. Meanwhile" pictures grace the walls. 
The dance floor is very large. 
Stainless steel and filled with 
tracks of lights, the place looks 
like something out of "Club 
MTV." There are strobes, spot­
lights and fog machines-all of 
which are mounted on lighting 
standards that rotate and re­
tract, creating a dizzying effect. 
The music was strictly dance 
music, but most of it was un­
recognizable (to me, at least) 
until later. The sound system 
was powerful, and there are 
two elevated platforms around 
the dance floor-for those of 
you whose moves are hot 
enough to be displayed to the 
entire club. 
If you are more into watching 
other people's moves than in 
making your own, there's lots 
of, urn, scope space in the club 
area. The dance floor is ringed 
with terraces and bar stools, 
and cocktail waiters and wait­
resses make the rounds. 
While you're doing your scoping, you can enjoy the scores of video screens hanging from the ceiling. On Tuesday, a particular good selection of "America's Funniest Home Videos" was being shown. 
There is little problem getting a drink from the bar (or bars.) Six bars in the club area make lines all but non-existent. 
One interesting element to Meanwhile... is the proliferation of employees. There are 250 employees throughout the place and swarms of them are on duty each night. The bouncers (or "bar hosts" as they prefer to be called) prowl the place with walkie-talkies and ear plugs, looking like the Secret Service. So, be on your best behavior. 
There also is a dress code. I'm serious. Dan Blacketor of Encore Advertising, which rep­resents the club, said that the club is looking to avoid "jeans with holes and holey sweat­shirts." He also added that men should wear shirts with collars. You won't hear that at The Commons or Club 23. 
One thing that should be pointed out is parking. Down­town parking is already scarce, and the new scores of fun­seeking people have confounded the problem. Although there is a parking garage next door, carpooling is encouraged. 
Also, because the club is so new, it has been pretty crowded. Blacketor said that crowds waited in line for 35 to 45 minutes last weekend. So a small amount of "pre-funking" might be necessary to combat the lines and the prices, but you didn't hear that from me. 
Overall, Meanwhile ... was a fun time. Probably the best part about it is that it will attract both college students and South Bend area residents. The club would be a good place to take a date or to take visiting friends. It might be too expensive to hit every night, but Meanwhile ... is guaranteed fun. 
page 14 The Observer Friday, March 22, 1991 





Seeing the faces of the invisible people 
My name is Griffin. and I'm a Holy Cross priest at Notre Dame; and I'd like to know: "How visible am I to you?" 
In 1952, Ralph Ellison wrote a novel about a young American black which begins: "I am an invisible man. No, I am not a spook like those who haunted Edgar Allen Poe, nor am I one of your Hollywood movie ecto-. plasms. I am a man of sub­stance, of flesh and bone, fiber and liquids--and I might even be said to possess a mind. I am invisible, understand, simply because people refuse to see me ... When they approach me they see only my surroundings, themselves, or figments of their imagination--indeed everything and anything except me...That invisibility to which I refer oc­curs because of a peculiar dis­position of the eyes of those with whom I come in contact. A matter of the construction of their inner eyes, those eyes with which they look through their physical eyes upon reality ... " 
All of us, I think, take turns being invisible. Greeting stu­dents I don't know on the quads, I can tell from the unfo­cused look in their eyes when they look at the Roman collar that I'm registering less than zero on the Richter scale which measures their human respon­siveness; in their minds, I'm just another deadhead who works for the Pope. I'm tempted to say, "Call me Ish­mael," just to get their atten­tion. 
I can survive as J. Alfred Prufrock, "sprawling on a pin ... wriggling on a wall, in the room where the women come At my age, I don't mind being invisible; but I hate to think of myself stereotyping people to the point that they become in­visible, instead of staying mind­ful that each of them is unique in a many-splendored way, like star differing from star in glory. 
As a young priest, I promised myself that I would never refuse money to the panhan­dlers I met in the street. That promise was not hard to keep as long as I stayed in New Eng­land. Then one Easter Sunday, I took a train to New York; by the time I got out of Penn Sta­tion, I was nearly picked clean. I learned a lesson: in Manhat­tan, nice guys finish last. Later. when I started to spend my summers in New York, I tended to be more frugal than gener­ous. Then one day, I realized I had become quick on my feet in avoiding street people, lined up on either side of the pavement to tell me their hard-luck sto­ries. I could navigate Sixth Av­enue not seeing them, scarcely hearing them. They were mostly winos and junkies, nearly mind­less and out of control, so I ig­nored their existence as much as I could; but when I noticed I had stopped looking at their faces, I felt ashamed. It must be a sin against God not to see His people when they're so close that they're breathing on you, and to sidestep the faces 

Father Robert Griffin 
letters to a lonely God 

sidestep a lamp post. 
If Christians could start see­ing the faces of the invisible people, the Church might have a better chance of surviving until the end of time. When people want to persecute Jews, they deny them their humanity; once they have made the Jews invisi­ble as human beings they've made the Jews expendable, and exposed them to genocide. Pro­choice advocates become angry when right-to-lifers show them pictures of foetuses in via, as evidence that abortion is the destruction of human life. "Human kind cannot bear very much reality," wrote Eliot. The anonymous stranger in the womb seems worth protecting, once the pictures make him/her visible. 
The displacement of the Indi­ans and the introduction of slavery were sins that cost the 'Jew World its loss of inno­cence, our writers tell us. 
However, as a nation, our at­tention span isn't very long, and we never allow anything that has taken place offstage to nag at our conscience long enough for us to doubt the Dream; believing, as we do, that all things must work to­gether for the good of a coun­try that has a manifest destiny. The Indians and slaves are part of the invisible past that cannot be repeated. The amnesia of history makes us as forgetful 

It's important, says the Pres­ident, for America to feel good about itself. Now that the Gulf 
'war is over, the President, ap­parently sees nothing in our track record to persuade us to postpone the euphoria until after we have fallen on our knees to make an act of contri­tion. If we could see ourselves as others see us, would the in­visible crimes of our past be­come visible to us? As a super­power, we won the war against Japan by nuking the enemy. Would we have used the bomb in the way we did if wartime propaganda hadn't persuaded us to look down on the Japanese people as children of the lesser gods who themselves lacked the divine image? 
Would we have wallowed in shame over the war in Vietnam if all that napalm had worked to help us win the war? If Ger­many had used napalm against the English and French, would the list of war criminals tried at Nuremberg have been even longer. 
The Iraqis must have been the most invisible enemy in the his­tory of warfare. We weren't even allowed to see their faces on television, until they were losers who had been hearing the bombs fall for forty days and forty nights. 
Ralph Ellison wrote "The In­visible Man" to defeat the na­tional tendency "to deny the common humanity shared by my character and those who might read of his experi­ence ... and to reveal the human complexity which stereotypes are intended to conceal." Per­haps if we'd been quicker to see tion that goes faceless in Harlem, we would have spared our enemies from overkill in four out of the five wars we have fought in this century, be­cause they were invisible to us as brothers and sisters with whom we should responsibly share this planet. 
"In the kingdom of the blind, the one-eyed man will be king." As a Christian, you should be the one-eyed Reilly, insightful when others are told that darkness is light. The Messiah is with us as an invisible man. Perhaps we will have to go to Harlem to find Him, invisible as the black Christ, in those neighborhoods where the chil­dren die young. As the old hymn says, we will know Him by the nail marks in His hands. Happy Easter. 
It keeps more than 
•


memories 
1 

alive. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSCO::IATION MEMORIAL PR(I;RAM~ 
~~ 
&\American HeartV Association 
This space provided as a public service. 


Wfi o ~ «13e C-row11e<l X-r. Sfa11jo-ra 

)J 

CONTESTENTS: Bill Kempf, Mike Donnino, Chris Ford, Adrian Enzastiga, Joe Turbyville, Chris Ebert, John Stoj, John Donohoe, Kevin Sul!ivan and Rob Hegedvs 


FIND OUT AT THE 1991 MR. STANFORD CONTES 
WHEN: SAT., MARCH 23  at 7:30  
All proceeds benefit the Logan Center  WHERE:  WASHINTON HALL  
TALK TO A STUD FOR DET  

.. '\ ·~ -............
--.... _-___ ......_.,---~.:-... -----· 

........----------~~--------------------------------~--------------~------------------­
The Observer

Friday, March 22, 1991 page 15 
Pittsburgh shuts door on Rangers; Blackhawks tie 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Kevin Stevens scored a fluke goal 13 seconds into overtime, his second of the night, as the Pittsburgh Penguins beat the New York Rangers 5-4 Thursday night to stretch their home unbeaten streak to 14 games and open a three-point lead in the Patrick Division. 
Stevens fired a shot off the boards and goalie John Vanbiesbrouck knocked it into the net as he tried to glove it. 
Ron Francis scored his first goal in nine games with Pittsburgh at 7:52 of the third period. Francis won a faceoff, then skated to the net and put Ulf Samuelsson's rebound past 
Vanbiesbrouck for a 4-4 tie. Kelly Kisio had put New York 4-3 ahead on a power play at 
13:30. Kisio controlled a bouncing puck and put a shot in off Tom Barrasso from close range for his 15th. 
Bruins 3, Nordiques 3 
BOSTON -Ron Tugnutt made a phenomenal 70 saves for Quebec on to give the last­place Nordiques a 3-3 tie with the Boston Bruins, the Adams Division leaders. 
The Bruins' 73 shots were only 10 shy of the all-time NHL record of 83 held by Boston in a 3-2 victory over Chicago on March 4, 1941. 
The Bruins' total tied the second-higest shot total by a team in an NHL game. The old New York Americans fired 73 in a 3-1 victory over the old Pittsburgh Pirates on Dec. 26 1925. 
Tugnutt, who averaged 28.6 saves per game for the Nordiques going into Thursday night's game, faced 17 in the first period, 19 in the second, 25 in the third and 12 in overtime. 
Blackhawks 2, Devils 2 
CHICAGO -John McLean scored with 28 seconds left to earn the New Jersey Devils a 2­2 tie with the Chicago Blackhawks. 

With New Jersey goaltender Sean Burke pulled for an extra skater, McLean got a pass from Kirk Miller from behind the Chicago goal and beat Ed Belfour from six feet. 
The tie broke Chicago's five­game winning streak, their longest ever in coach Mike Keenan's three years. 
It also kept the Blackhawks two points ahead of St. Louis in the Norris Division. The Blues beat Philadelphia 4-1 Thursday night. The De.vils remained third in the Patrick Division with a one-point lead over Washington. 
Blues 4, Flyers 1 

PHILADELPHIA Dave Lowry had two goals and an assist as the St. Louis Blues scored three first-period goals and dumped the reeling Philadelphia Flyers 4-1. 
Philadelphia has lost seven of its last eight games and has just one win in its past 10. St. Louis, which was struggling itself until beating Washington on Tuesday night. is 2-4-2 in its last eight games. The Flyers began the month in second place in the Patrick Division, but have dropped to fifth with five games remaining. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next -<Jay classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all

Classifieds 
spaces. 
IBM, COMMODORE, OR APPLE. SENIOR&-SENIOR&-SENIORS !!! PROFESSORS ... !!! Gina's Pizza Cash paid for all makes of IT'S ST. PATRICK'S DAY AT Notices 3 Bedroom House Computers and Software. Computer BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S ARE YOU TOURING THE WORLD Gina's Pizza Close to Campus software for IBM and IBM FRIDAY MARCH 22, 1991 ON A FULBRIGHT? ARE YOU TYPING AVAILABLE $555 Month + Deposit compatible, Commodore or Apple, GOING TO BERMUDA? ARE YOU Gina's Pizza 287-4082 Ten Month Lease $2 each. $3 -24 OZ PARTY CUPS JUST GOING AWAY THIS 232-3616 WESTERN ELECTRONICS FILL 'EM ALL NIGHT FOR $. 75 SUMMER? WORRIED ABOUT Get one FREE Topping all 
Dissertations, Theses, Papers 1530 WESTERN AVE. DISCOUNT AT THE DOOR IF YOU THE HOUSE? weekend on any pizza by just Professional Typing 287-7550 BRING YOUR CUP FROM LAST RESPONSIBLE UNDERGRAD IS calling Gina's Pizza. Get a 277-7406 Available. 2 Student Reotal Homes TIME LOOKING TO TAKE CARE OF FREE 2 liter of Coke with a 
for 1991-1992 school year. Call NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and SENIORS-SENIOR&-SENIORS YOUR HOUSE WHILE FLUNKING Pizza coupon. RESUMES..PROFESSIONAL 232-5411 (9 A.M to 12 and 2 P.M. to trade, gold, silver, diamonds, ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IN THE Gina's Pizza QUALITY. CALL 272-5667. 5 P.M. Monday thru Friday). jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's, HELP! Need ride to/from Des SUMMER SESSION. NO NEED 271-0200. 
camcorders, cameras, air Moines/KG for break $ Diane x4902 TO WORRY THIS SUMMERI CALL ****ATIENTION SMC***** TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES conditioners, microwaves, tools, ANYTIME ... 283-3470 ... PLEASE If anyone would like to purchase a FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE Nintendo's, computers. OH NO!!!!!! LEAVE A MESSAGE IF GONE! WITHOUTANAUT0­St. Mary's class ring, I transferred IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER OZARK TRADING POST It's Matt Sorrentino's 20th CAN FURNISH "CHARACTER" 1hope you are feeling better after purchasing mine and would 3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE 1530 WESTERN AVE. Birthday, and he still can't REFERENCES UPON REQUEST. today!! Have anice day even though like to sell it! It's like brand NORTH OF ND 2773097 287-7550 hold his liquor!!(Actually, he can't you won't get to go to a peace new-and cheaper than the regular hold red wine, if you really must class. selling price! Give me a call, I Apts. for rent -2 bedrm, kitchen, FREE AEROBICS CLASSES know). Oh well. Ring him up to "HO IS SUCH A HO, graduate soon! Thanks! Julie dining, living. $380 includes STEPAN CENTER wish him a GREAT Birthday!!! OH TO BE A HO!! " NEEDED: A ride to Venezuela for 273-9442 utilities. Call 219-232-5563. He deserves it. Easter Break. Call Withoutanauto. 
w/ ND Senior Kris Tortorella Give him a bottle of red wine. HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY HEIDI VEREDA Senior girls leaving May '91 -4 Open to all stud. & faculty He LOVES the stuff. COSTA!! YOU ARE GOING DOWN presents Bedroom east side home near 12:15-1:15 every MWF HA!!!! IN A BIG. BIG, BIG WAY!! ********Ride Needed************** "The Sounds of El Salvador" Notre Dame for lease, all Starting Wed. 20th March LOVE, YOUR WIMPY BUT FUN RA To Indianapolis for Easter break!!!! 
appliances incl. wahrldryer, central Have a great birthday, Matt. Will pay gas!!!! Student band, VEREDA, visiting air, finished basement, frplc., super How's the Hippo-woman? Call TRicia at 284-431 4 from El Salvador. Featuring songs 4 to 5 person student rental. Call SUPER SLIDE SHOW! Sanj MARYBETH PETRIELLA of the struggles of their country. 219-232-5563. Burb !!!I! Happy 22nd birthday!!! We hope Gerard­
Don't miss the slides before you have as much fun this birthday It was fun studying at your desk on Grace Pit 8:00 Friday the Rocky Horror Picture Mr. Olympia: as you did on your last. Of course Thursday. It was a nice way to For Sale Show on April 26! Turn in DOOOOOOOD. I'm dead serious. that means you'll have to give up spend our anniversary. I can't wait pictures of you and your Get fired up for tonight, I know I am. your Lenten vows for the night, or to do more studying tonight. Maybe Lost and Found IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOME! friends before MARCH 28 (lve been told it will be an evening we could just have The Dr. make we can soar like eagles. 
3 BDRM HOME FOR SALE BY to THE BOX at the information when "Anything Goes." could be your drinks again. Have a great Found: Ten-Speed Bicycle outside OWNER. FIREPLACE, CIA, FMRM desk in Lafortune. interesting, especially with wild and time!!! ABCDEFGHIJK the Architecture Bldg. W/BAR. MOVE-IN COND. 15 MIN crazy folks like you) Love your friends LMNOPQRSTUVWXY Call Tom H. at 289-7925 or come WALK FROM ND. APPT ONLY. DON'T MISS IT!!! With ardent admiration-the whale­Now I know my ABC's find me in the architecture building. 234-8116, EVE. watching wannabe Adelante. Yo pongo Next time won't you sing with me? 
p.s. You made me lose the bet with 
llost my ID. If you have found it, Tandy 1OOOEX/IBM compat/ NEEDED: Ride from St.Louis on Jen. please return it to me. I am very lost 5.25" int dr/3.5" ext dr/color April 1 .Call Theresa at x3425. without it. I had all of my ID in a blue mntr/Deskmate prgm + others/ ND holder. My name is Comalita blank 3.5" disks. $500 or B.O. Wednesday, March 27, is Haysbert. You can reach me at the Connie X7177 HAPPY BIRTHDAY # 3270. Engineering Sweatshirt Day! DOUG! 
ROUND TRIP TICKET Dude man bro, HELP ME! LOst ID. Please call TO BOSTON Join your fellow geeks and sport Thanks for the best week of my 3270 if you have found it. All of my FOR EASTER your Engineering sweatshirts next life!! Maybe next year it will be ID was in Blue ND plastic case. I'm 3-28 to 4-1 Wednesday! Hawaii!! You really do mean much lost without it. Comalita M. Haysbert must be male more than a Maynard to me!! 
277-9366 I Love You!!! ••• GRADUATE STUDENTS ••• Lula, 0. Ho, Wanted Eat your Easter Candy at etc. 
Home!! THE ROLE AND STATUS OF P.S. Don't forget: "When I think ACCENT ON FUN! Coed, Round-trip USAIR tickets for GRADUATE STUDENT about you, I ... " sleepaway camp in Massachusetts Philadelphia for sale TEACHING & RESEARCH seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI, Leave: Thurs./Return: Mon. AT NOTRE DAME lifeguard, tennis, arts & crafts. all Reasonable!! To Jonathon "Biking Stud" land &water sports, fitness, Call Sally x3783 REV. EDWARD MALLOY, CSC Puskas gymnastics, piano/play for shows, UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT HAPPY BIRTHDAY I drama, judo, dance, archery, sofa, luv seat, carpet Love, the Wife photography, computers, model window seats (Fl. & Gr.) DR. NATHAN HATCH rocketry, guitar, radio, video, X1583 VICE-PRES. FOR ADV. STUDIES GINA'S PIZZA yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, AN. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. DR. TIMOTHY O'MEARA GINA'S PIZZA 
6/23-8126. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Buying a car? Good rates. Call me PROVOST Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. GINA'S PIZZA 10707. 800-955-CAMP. Office near campus. MON., MARCH 25,7-9 PM 
CCE AUDITORIUM Get one time FREE all weekend on SUMMER JOBS 286-IBM compatible AT,1ram, 30 any pizza. Get a FREE 2-liter of 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS mgb. hd+20 mgb. hd (not ** RECEPTION TO FOLLOW ** Coke with any pizza. PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS installed)+2400b modem+ high GINA'S PIZZA ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR density drive+lots of installed 271-0200 LAKE PLACID. CALL software+ introduction to MS-Dos. ADOPTION: Happily married loving 1-800-343-8373. In excellent conditions.v$1200 couple wish to adopt. We promise FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY 
Call after 7p.m. 232-3330 a fine education, financial security, CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. NEEDED: ride to IU for Easter and the best of all our hearts. Break Missy 2577 $$ Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. 
Tickets Call Tom and Debbie collect 212-Will Joe Turby-Knox become the I need ride to Iowa City or nearby 866-8315. new Mr. Stanford? for Easter-call Jen 2170 $$$$$ Will we get to see him peal his 
SENIORS Banana? NEED RIDE TO DAYTON FOR Need One Grad. Tix CHRONIC DESIRE Can He Fart at will? EASTER. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME Call Kim x2669 Who is Will? DEBBIE x2982. $$$$$ McCORMICKS * FRIDAY * 3/22 
I always leave when the talk Gets GUNS N' ROSES TIX Philosophical.-H N I C. For Rent Two tickets for the May 24th Alpine COME SEE ALL THE BANDS ON 
Valley show for sale at face value. THE FIELDHOUSE MALL THIS We're Five Guys Who Aren't Afraid GRAD. WEEKEND Call DAN at X2187. SAT. MARCH 23rd. BUT MAKE to Wear Tutus While Playing BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY SURE YOU STAY FOR Basketball. And we don't mind 
~.~, PATfi[S DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR .,........ ..._..... ""~­Oinne• for 2 ----------­"'899 _ .... ,. oz•.. Ptc.k any f"*'O Gourmer Snadwichcs. t'OO G.rclcn Sal...plw your choic.c oi Frc:nch fri• or Onoun Rm11 and 2 ~ ant·c;.,nd-..explratIon data 3·31·91 Sundae~----·---­6vy eny utc aund.e and99t rec;e... a occnd one oi d>e vmc ...for ~ expiration dllta 3-31·91  
GUATEMALAN IMPORTS University of Notre Dame LaFortune Student Center Sorfn Room March 18-22 10~-linm  
Purses, hats, belts, vests, other 8ccessor1es, end tredttl on81 Guetem818n clothing end weaving. A :C of Sales goes beck to Guatemala to buy !looks & school supplies for ch11dren.  

Cruise Ship Jobs 
219-291-7153. JESTER guarding with affection. 
HIRING Men -Women. Summer/
Personal AT 5:15 Year Round. PHOTOGRAPHERS.
GET YOUR REAR IN GEAR YOU'LL ENJOY YOUR MEAL SO Help! I need TOUR GUIDES. RECREATION PERSONNEL Reserve a 5,4, 2 bedrm. Resumes .... Professional quality MUCH MORE! WATERFRONT PROPERTY! 
Excellent pay plus FREE travel. Canbbean,house for '91-'92 yr. 272-5667. (Tom Williams) -----------If Hawaii, Bahamas, South Pacific, Mextco. 
288-5653 or 234-3831. ----------91 Going to HOUSTON/DALLAS? you missed them last night at CLUB 
CALL NOWI Call refundable GRADS: MOVING TO DC? Need Too much stuff to bring home for the 23, you're in luck 
1-206-736-7000. Ext.600N2
TIME IS RUNNING OUT -roommate? Call David summer? Help me fill my truck. CHRONIC DESIRE Call before the BEST houses are (ND '90) 217·753-1641. Contact Joe-X1433 TONIGHT at McCORMICK'S gone 233-9947. 

Scoreboard 

NHL STANDINGS NCAA FENCING RESULTS NBA STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE Men'a Sabre Final Individual Reaulta EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Patrick Dlvlalon Atlantic Dlvlalon
1. Vitali Nazlimov -Penn State w L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv 2. Llezek Nowoelalekl -Notre Dame w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Conf 
x-Pitteburgh 39 31 5 83 320 283 . 25-11-2 14-20-3 18-13-1 3. David Cox • Penn State x-Boston 50 18 .735 8-2 Won 1 30-5 20-13 29-12 NY Rangers 34 29 12 80 276 245 20-11-6 14-18-6 13-13-5 4. Shimon Sarra! -North Carolina Philadelphia 37 29 .561 12 5-5 Won 2 24-9 13-20 25-14 Washington 34 34 6 74 241 245 19-13-4 15-21-2 18-12-3 5. Leonard D'Amico -Stanford NewVork 34 33 .507 15 112 8-2 Won 2 17-18 17-15 23-20 
New Jersey 31 31 12 74 258 246 22-9-7 9-22-5 13-14-5 6. Thomas Strzalkowskl -Penn State Washington 23 42 .354 25 112 1-9 Lost 3 15-15 8-27 15-25 Philadelphia 32 34 9 73 238 247 17-14-6 15-20-3 11-14-6 7. Stephen Kovacs -Colurrbla New Jersey 22 44 .333 27 3-7 Won 1 17-17 5-27 14-26 NY Islanders 23 42 10 56 212 276 14-18-6 9-24-4 11-18-4 8. Allie Ovorln • New York Miami 20 47 .299 29 112 2-8 Lost 6 14-20 6-27 11-33 Adllll8 Dlvlelon Central Dlvlalon
9. Seung Jean Chal-Vale y-Boston 41 23 11 93 273 246 24-9-5 17-14-6 16-8-5 1 0. Peter Clement • Colurrbla x-Chlcago 50 15 .769 9-1 Won 9 30-3 20-12 32-8 x-Montreal 37 29 10 84 262 237 21-12-4 16-17-6 13-12-4 11. Gellert T oth -Ohio State x-Detroit 41 26 .612 10 4-6 lost 1 26-8 15-18 27-16 x-Buflalo 28 29 17 73 265 257 13-13-11 15-16-6 11-11-7 12. Evan Glanz -Pennsylvania 5-5 Won 2 28-7 12-20 27-18
x-Milwaukee 40 27 .597 11 x-Hartford 31 34 10 72 222 250 18-16-5 13-18-5 9-13-6 13. Jonathan Maggio -Duke Atlanta 37 30 .552 14 5-5 lost 1 25-9 12-21 20-22 Quebec 14 13 214 335 7-22-8 7-12-8 Indiana 33 34 .493 18 6-4 Won 1 10-24
48 41 7-26-5 14. Chrla Baguar -Notre Dame 23-10 20-20 
Cleveland 23 42 .354 27 4-6 Lost 2 15-17 8-25 14-25 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Sung Chung -Pennsylvania Charlotte 19 46 .292 31 2-8 Lost 1 12-20 7-26 12-30 Norrla Dlvlalon 
15. Sean Baz -vale 

WESTERN CONFERENCE
17. Raymond Ku -Brown 

w L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv Michael Mayer-Brandeis Midweat Dlvlalon x-Chicago 45 22 6 96 257 192 25-8-3 20-14-3 17-7-3 19. nm Jurldt -Columbia w L Pet • GB L10 Streak Home Away Conf x-St. Louis 42 22 11 95 292 241 21-9-7 21-13-4 15-11-3 20. Tom Roth-Pennsylvania x-Utah 43 22 .661 6-4 Won 2 26-5 17-17 29-12 x-Detroll 33 34 8 74 260 274 25-12-0 B-22-8 13-13-3 21. Ed Baguar -Notre Dame x-San Antonio 42 23 .646 1 6-4 Lost 1 26-6 16-17 28-16 x-Minneaota 26 34 14 66 239 244 18-14-6 8-20-8 9-14-5 x-Houston 42 24 .636 1 112 10-0 Won 10 27-8 15-16 27-17 Toronto 21 44 10 52 227 304 14-21-3 7-23-7 8-17-2 OaHas 24 41 .369 19 3-7 Lost 1 16-18 8-23 14-26 
Women'a Team Final Reaulta

Smythe Dlvlllon Orlando 22 43 .338 21 3-7 Won 1 17-16 5-27 18-27 
1. Penn State 

X-Calgary 44 24 7 95 319 240 27-8-2 17-16-5 16-8-3 Minnesota 21 44 .323 22 3-7 Lost 2 15-18 6-26 15-32 x-los Angeles 42 23 10 94 317 237 23-9-5 19-14-5 16-8-4 18 48 .273 25 112 2-8 Lost 4 15-19 3-29 10-32
2. Notre O.me Denver x-Edmonton 35 34 5 75 253 251 20-13-3 15-21-2 11-13-2 Pacific Dlvlalon
3. 
Ten,>le 

4. 
Columbia



Vancouver 26 42 9 61 235 305 16-17-5 10-25-4 9-19-1 x-Portland 48 18 .727 4-6 Won 1 29-5 19-13 29-13 
5. Farlelgh Dickinson

Winnipeg 25 40 11 61 251 276 11-18-5 8-22-6 9-13-6 x-LA lakers 48 19 .716 112 6-4 Lost 1 26~ 22-13 31-12 x-cllnched playoff berth 6.Vale x-Phoenlx 46 20 .697 2 9-1 Won 3 25-6 21-14 27-\4 
7. Wattne State 

y-dlnched divielon title Golden State 35 30 .538 12 112 6-4 Won 1 23-10 12-20 21-23 
8. Pennsylvania

Thuraday'a Gamea Seattle 31 34 .4n 16 112 4-6 Won 1 20-t 1 11-23 17-22 
9. North Carolina 

Late Gune Not Included LA Clippers 23 44 .343 25 112 3-7 Lost 2 16-16 7-28 19-23 
1o. Stanford

Quebec 3, Boston 3, 118 Sacramento 18 47 .2n 29 112 3-7 Lost 3 17-14 1-33 12-27 
11. Wisconsin

Washington 6, N.V. Islanders 2 x-dlnched playoH berth 
12. New York 

Wadneaday'a Gamea Plnlburgh 5, N.V. Rangers 4, OT St. Louis 4, Philade_,hia 1 
Boston 102, Washington 81 New Jersey at Chicago, (n) 
Indiana 117, Miami 107 Frlday'a Gamea 
New Jersey 118, Minnesota 111, OT Toronto at Detroit, 7:35p.m. New Vorl< 102, Cleveland 97 Minnesota at Washington. 8:05p.m. Philadelphia 107, Detroit 103 Winnipeg at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
Chicago 129, Atlanta 1 07 Saturday'• Gamea 
Phoenix 110, Dallas 96 
Utah 106, Denver 98 Buffalo at Boston, 1 :35 p.m. 
NCAA TOURNAMENT GLANCE

N.Y. Rangers at PhUade_,hia, 1:05 p.m. 
Seattle 114,LA Laker& 106 Chicago at Pittsburgh, 1 :35 p.m. Portland 1 00, LA Clippers 96 
Rrat Round

St. Loull at N.V. Islanders, 7:35p.m. Thuraday'a Gamea 
Wedneaday, March 13 

Late Garnaa Not Included
Hartford at Quebec, 7:35p.m. 
Providence 98, James Madison 93, 20T

Winnipeg at Edmonton, 8:05 p.m. Orlando 105, San Antonio 102 
Cincinnati 82, Ball State 55

New Jersey a1 Montreal, 8:05 p.m. Houston 98, Sacramento 87 
Wisconsin 87, Bowling Green 79, OT

Detroit at Toronto, 8:05p.m. Charlotte at Utah. (n)
Colorado 71, Michigan 64

Calgary at Los Angeles, 1 0:35 p.m. Denver at Golden Stale, (n) 
Southern IIRnola 75, Boise State 74 

Frlday'a Gamea 
Stanford 93, Houston 86 

Boston at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. 
Thuraday, March 14 

San Antonio at Miami, 7-:s:J p.m.
NCAA BASKETBALL BOXES Siena 90, Fairleigh Dickinson 85 Chicago at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m.
Fordham 76, South Florida 66 

New Jersey at Detroit, 8 p.m.
Southwest Missouri St. 57, Coppin State 47 

Cleveland at Minnesota, 8 p.m. 
ALABAMA (70) KANSAS (83) M8Jil)hls St. 82, Alabama-Birmingham 76 Atlanta vs. Washington at Baltimore, 8 p.m. 
Spr-' 5-11 0-0 10, Cheatum 6-11 1-2 13, Jamison 7-10 0-0 1-4, Maddox 2-4 0-1 o4, Randall Ar!(ansas St. 78, Rice 71 New York at Dalas. 8:30 p.m. 
Harry 7-15 3-4 18, Waites 1-4 0-0 2. LllrlCa&ter 0-<4-9 0-3 8, Brown 7-16 5-6 23, Jordan 3-1 0 3-4 11, Oklahoma 111, Tulsa 86 Seattle at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. 
1 0-00, ~ 1-1 0-0 2, Robinson 7-15 4~ 21, Richey 0-1 0-0 0, Woodberry 0-0 0-0 0, TunstaH 4-9 Friday, March 15 Charlotte at LA CIR>ers. 10:30 p.m. 
~I 0-0 0-0 0, Wflk:b 2-4 0-1 4. Totall 29-5-6 15, Wagner 0-0 0-0 0, Scott <4-9 0-2 8. Totall West VIrginia 86, Furman 67 Milwaukee at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. 
121-13 70. 31-68 13-22 83. Massachusetts 93, La Salle 90 
Saturday'• Gamea
ARKANSAS (t3) INDIANA (85) South Carolina 69, George Washington 63 Miami at Adanta. 7:30p.m. 
o.y 14-2-4 1-1 31, Morris 2-7 0-0 4, MAier 7-9 Anderson 3-8 0-0 6, Cheaney 1-14 <4-5 23, Nover Wyoming 63, Butler 61 New Jersey at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. 
1-2 15, Mayberry 6-121-2 16, Bowers 1-8 4-4 7, 0-4 0-0 0, G.Graham 1-4 0-1 2, Meeka1-2 0-0 2, Dallas at Orlando, 7:30p.m. 
Murry 0-3 0-0 0, Huery 4-8 0-0 9, Fletcher 3-5 0-Jones 0-1 1-2 1, Reynolds 3-3 5-5 11, Bailey 9-14 Second Round PhMadelphia at Washington, 7:30p.m.
0 8, Wallllce 2-9 0-0 5. Totals 39-85 7-9 93. 2-4 20, Knight 0-1 0-0 o, P.Graham 0-2 0-0 o. Monday, March 11 Indiana at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. 
~40, Alabama 37. Totals 24-53 12-17 65. • Providence 85, West Virginia 79 New York at Houston, 8:30p.m. 
~ s.oolr ~aJTil 4-10 (Robinson 3-5, Oklahoma 89, Cincinnati 81, OT Milwaukee at Denver. 9:30p.m.
Horry 1-3, W..._ 0-1,lancaater 0-1). Ar!(ansas Halftime-Kansas 49, Indiana 27. Stanford 80, Wisconsin 72 Minnesota at Utah, 9:30p.m.
B-20 (M.,_ry 3-7, Day 2-5, Huery 1-1, Wallace 3-polnt goals-Kansas 8-20 (Brown 4-9. Tunstall Southern Illinois 72, Southwest Missouri LA Cl~rs at Golden State, 1 0:30 p.m. 
1-1, Bowars 1-4, Murry 0-2). Fouled out-None. 2-4, Jor~ 2-5, Maddox 0-1, Richey 0-1), Indiana State 69 Phoenix at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
Reboundi-Aiabam 3Q (Cheatum 12). 5-12 (Cheaney 3-4, Bailey 2-5, G.Graham 0-1). Ar!(ansas State 58, Men-phis State 57 
Sunday'a Gamea
Ar!(ansas 45 (Walace 8). Alllsts-Aiabama 13 Fouled out-Bailey. Rebounda-Kansas 42 Colorado 83, Wyoming 75 Detroit at San Antonio, 1 p.m. 
(Splwwell, Walles 4), Ark-17 (Bowers 6). (Jamison 10), Indiana 33 (Cheaney 6). Asslsts­Tueaday, March 1t Charlotte at Portland, 8 p.m 
Tocalfouls-Aiabama 14, Arlwllas 10. Kansu 18 (Randal 6), Indiana 11 (Meeks 4). Total Maasach~etts 78, Fordham 74 Seattle at LA lakers, 10:30 p.m. 
Technlcals-Arkans• COIICh Richardson. A­fouls--Kansas 17, Indiana 19. A-22,717. Siena 83, South Carolina 58 
NA. 
Ouarterflnala
UTAH (88)

SETON HALL (11) Wadneaday, March 20
Grant 7-12 2-2 17, McGrath 1-1 0-0 2. Watts 4~

Wlncheater 5-8 1-2 11, Kamlahovas 4-8 0-0 11, Oklahoma 83, Providence 74 
3-3 11, Tate 2-4 3-3 7, Wilson 3-11 2-3 9, Solo 4-5 

Avent 6-13 3~ 15, Taylor 1-5 4-4 6, Dehere B-1' Thuraday, March 21
1-112. Dixon 1-7 0-0 3. Rydalch 1~ 1-1 3, Afeakl

10-11 28, Caver 2-4 1-2 5, Walker 2-4 1-2 5, Davis Massachusetts 82, Siena 80, OT 1-2 0-0 2, Cain 0-1 0-0 0, Mooney 0-1 0-0 0.
0-0 0-0 0, Bamea 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 21-56 20-27 81. Stanford 78, Southern lnlnols 68 
Howard 0-0 0-0 0, McKinney 0-1 0-0 0, WIUiarns ~ 

ARIZONA (77) Colorado 81, Ar!(ansas State 75
2 0-0 0. Totals 2-4-59 12-13 66. 

Wiliams 8-1<4 5-5 21, Mila 9-12 0-0 20, Rooks 5­UNLV (83)13 2-2 12. Othlck 4-9 1-2 11, Muehlebach 1-3 1-2 Johnson 10-13 3-4 23, Augmon 6-9 1-1 15,4, Reeves 1-51-2 4, Womadl1-1 1-3 3, Stokes 1-4 Ackles 6-8 0-0 12, Hunt 4-9 1-2 12, Anthony 2-6 2­0-0 2. Totals 30-61 11-16 n. 
4 6, Spencer 6-14 3-9 15, Gray 0-2 0-0 o. Waldman 0-0 0-0 0, Bice 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 34-61 

~®~'IT ~®W\)
Halftime--Arizona 37, Seton Hall 37. 
10-20 83. 

3-polnt goals-Seton Hall 5-13 (Karnishovas 3-4, Dehere 2-8, Taylor 0-1), Arizona 6-13 (Mills 2-3, 
Halttlm&-UNLV 41, Utah 35. 

Othidl 2-6, Reeves 1-3, Muehlebach 1-1). Fouled 3-polnt goals-Utah 8-16 (Soto 3-3, Wilson 1-3,ou1-Muehlebach. Rebounds-Seton Hall 32 
~£'IT ~lri1lli~
Grant 1-3, Dixon 1-4, Rydaldl 0-3), UNLV 5-12 (Winchester, Dehere, team 6), Arizona 32 (WIIUarns

j 
(Hunt 3-7, Augmon 2-3, Johnson 0-1, Gray 0-1). 

10). Asslsta-Seton Hall11 (Caver 6), Arizona 15 Fouled out--None. Rebounds-Utah 34 (Grant(Muehlebach 5). Total louis-Seton Hall 19, 
l 
10), UNLV 34 (Johnson 13). Assists-Utah 14Arizona 20. ~A­
(Tate 7), UNLV 15 (Anthony 10). Total fouls-Utah 20, UNL V 13. A-22,628. 


MOVING • AUTO • SPENDING MONEY 
SECURITY DEPOSIT ·WARDROBE 
Seniors, when you graduate, you'll have expenses and we would like to help! We have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 
QNEWAUTO· 9.75o/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. 
YOU MAY "AI.H FOR ANY OF THE fOU.OWIC LOANS BASED ON YIUI SIIMTURE. 
• MASTERCARD-16.92°/a APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your first year as part of this special offer. ~QUICK CASH· 13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this 
loan, you simply write a check! ~ RELOCATION· 9.1°/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to ~repay. You must also have our Mastercard and 
line-of-credit. ­Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 

o~RAl~lNON 
239-6611 
Separate from the Unlvers=l!y:..~....,___ 
........~--~~------~------------------------~------------------.--------------------------------------------~­
Friday, March 22, 1991 The Observer page 17 



Only Bo's doctor knows what hip injury could mean 
(AP)-Bo Jackson's future should not be judged by doctors who haven't seen his medical reports, his agent says. 
"All of these quacks around the country have not examined Bo's records and have no idea what they're talking about," Richard Woods, Jackson's agent, said Thursday from Mobile, Ala...When I see doc­tors in San Diego, San Francisco, or New York or Washington, commenting, it 
ethical medical standards they have." 
Meanwhile, Woods said the New York Yankees are serious about claiming Jackson by Friday's 2 p.m. EST deadline. 
"Bo and the Yankees could be a match made in heaven," Woods said. "New York is New York, the Yankees are the Yankees and Bo is Bo. The Yankees are the greatest fran­chise in history and Bo could breath new life into a great or­
Woods said the only person with all of Jackson's medical records is Dr. Jim Andrews, the two-sport star's personal physician from Birmingham, Ala. 
"He's a world renowned sports medicine guy and he's very optimistic about Bo's future," Woods said. "Right now, he's being cautious and conservative and he still feels strongly that Bo will be back, and will possibly play this year." 

available for comment. but told USA Today in Thursday's edi­tions: "I really think he's going to make it. Maybe it's 20 years dealing with this type of athlete, but I have that intuition." 
On Monday, the Kansas City Royals released Jackson after their team physician, Steve Joyce, said the hip injury would prevent the outfielder from playing baseball this season and possibly longer. The original injury occurred in an NFL Cincinnati. 
The diagnosis said Jackson was suffering from the destruc­tion of cartilage in his hip joint, a condition known as chon­drolysis. 
Since then, doctors nationwide have stated that given the Royals' diagnosis, it was doubtful Jackson would ever play baseball or football again. So far, the Los Angeles Raiders say they have no plans to drop Jackson from their roster. 

makes you wonder what sort of ganization." Andrews was not immediately playoff game on Jan. 13 against Woods' bitterness was di­
,----------------------------------------------------'1 rected at reports in Thursday's 
DOMINO'S PIZZA DURING 




THE NCAA. 

A TASTY SLAM-DUNK 

.. 
Call about our 30th Anniversary Special! Employment Opportunities Available. 

CARRY OUT SPECIAL 
• 

! Get a large pizza $~99 
with one topping
I 
f $ 1 ..or only ~.99. 
II 
I Addittonal toppmgsextra.
1

1 . · • 
~=-~~s;=~~~S::~oo
.--~ ~· . h 

: FOUR LARGE PIZZAS : MEDIUM TWO-TOPPER 
I I 
Get four large 1 f it

cheese pizzas avor e toppmgs for just $17 99 for only $6.99. 



II I 

Addif 1t . · · I Get the second 
1 tona opptngs extra. • 1 

1 . . for $3.00 more.
1 

$699 
11: ., 
L 

------------~~N~1~91_L------------~~~1~~-~-------------~~~1 ~~~ 
Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 1835 South Bend Ave. 289-0033 816 Ponage Ave. 
~=~s:.~tJV::..'":~"\t'~":.'::~oo ~-=-~'*::.'::tJW::..'":~~~~S::~oo
II Our.,._..,.net ponaOzod lor la1o-I o...._..,.netponalzod lor Iaiii _.,.. 
1 1 
1 1 
Los Angeles Times and Washington Post, even though the newspapers did not identify their sources. 
The Post quoted a source close to Jackson as saying that "the cartilage has sort of wasted away" since the football injury and the damage it caused is worse than initially thought. "In reality, he has an old man's arthritic hip," the Post's source said. "There is no question: He will not play professional sports again." 
The Times quoted an uniden­tified orthopedic specialist who recently examined Jackson. Asked if Jackson could return to the Raiders, the doctor told the Times: ..No. I don't think he'll play for anybody. I don't see how he can. It will be too painful."And baseball? "Not unless they make him a home run hitter who doesn't have to run or slide into second," the Times' source said. 
On Wednesday, Dr. Thomas Sampson, an orthopedic spe­cialist from San Francisco, said: "I haven't seen his X-rays, but absent a miracle, it's unlikely he'll be able to return to professional sports. If he's al­ready undergoing chondrolysis, it means he's already damaged his hip joint itself. And for that reason, it's unlikely he'll be able to return to professional sports." 
In addition to chondrolysis, there have been reports that Jackson is suffering from the early stages of vascular necro­sis, the partial loss of blood supply to the head of the femur, the "ball" in the ball-and-socket hip joint. 
Woods laughed at the reports. 
'They don't have a clue what the injury is," Woods said. "All these articles are jokes. The only person medically who knows what's going on is Andrews. And he's optimistic.n 
Yankees' officials were to re­view Jackson's medical reports before reaching a decision. If the Yankees claim Jackson and he remains on the opening day roster, the club would have to pay him his entire 1991 salary of $2,375,000. Or they can work out a new deal. 
It's also possible Jackson could decline to report to the '· Yankees, thus freeing him up to become a free agent next sea­soil. 
"We're excited about the pos­sibilities," Woods said. 
Jackson was fishing on Thursday and unavailable for comment. 
"I asked him, 'Can you fish with your hip?"' Woods said. 'He said, 'I can do anything with my hip.' He knows his pri­orities, and bass fishing some­times comes ahead of football and baseball. 
"He said, 'If they will pay me a little money, I will quit both of them and go hunting and fish­ing all the time."' 

{ : \ 
:i 
' 


' 
I i 
1 
r \ 
r ' 
' I 
' ; 
l I 
i 
The Observerpage 18 

Pirates plunder Arizona's inside riches Running Rebels continue quest for repeat crown 


SEATTLE (AP) -Arizona was bigger, but Seton Hall and Terry Dehere were better. 
Dehere, continuing his hot postseason play, scored 28 points and Seton Hall contained Arizona's big front line for a 81-77 victory Thursday night in the semifinals of the NCAA West RegionaL 
The Pirates (25-8) will play the UNLV-Utah winner in the regional fmal on Saturday. 
Seton Hall used a collapsing, double-teaming defense to overcome Arizona's "Tucson Skyline" of 6-foot-11 Brian Williams, 6-11 Sean Rooks and 7 -foot reserve Ed Stokes. 
Williams scored 21 points, but Rooks got only 12 and Stokes was held to two. Chris Mills had 20 points for the Wildcats (28-7). 
Trailing 80-77, Arizona got the ball in the closing seconds. But Matt Othick missed a 3­point shot with 4.5 seconds left, Seton Hall grabbed the rebound and Dehere was fouled by Matt Muehlebach. Dehere made his first free throw with 3.8 seconds remaining to clinch the victory. 
Seton Hall has won seven straight and 12 of 13. Arizona, the Pacific-1 0 champion, led 73-71 after Mills's 3-pointer with 3:52 left, but Anthony Avent made a free throw with 3:39 remaining and a turnaround 10-footer jumperwith 3:02 to go, giving Seton Hall the lead for good at 74-73. 
Dehere made two free throws at 2:45 and Williams countered with two free throws with 2:23 left. Those were the last Arizona points until Williams converted his own missed shot for a dunk with 21.7 seconds left. 
Seton Hall led 77-75 after a free throw by Jerry Walker at 
2:03. The Pirates made it a four-point lead on two free throws by Oliver Taylor with 
37.4 seconds left. After Williams' dunk with 
21.7 seconds, Bryan Caver of Seton Hall made a free throw with 19.3 seconds left for an 80-77 Seton Hall lead. 

Digger 
continued from page 24 

nationally-prominent sportswriter, joking after an Irish stew at the hands of Southern Cal, suggested that the team would not win five games this year. He met with assent from the other writers gathered around him. 
The Irish scored their fair share of upsets this season, in addition to losing several games in which, all things considered, they were underdogs. What more can anyone ask of a team? Digger coached his team to more wins than many experts thought that they should have had. 
If fans want wins, they should act like it. Booing Digger without regard for circumstances is not only classless, but embarrassing, detrimental and degrading. Were the vocal booers subjected to such treatment for their academic work, social blunders or personal shortcomings, suicide rates would skyrocket. 
As far as the rumor mill about Digger's impending resignation is concerned, let's give it a rest. 
AP Photo Nevada-Las Vegas' George Ackles will bring his terribly mean game face to the Kingdome Saturday as the Rebels face Seton Hall. 
Rebels 83, Utes 66 
UNLV's basketball machine switched tactics from a bombs­away offense to an inside muscle game and beat Utah both ways to surge to a third straight NCAA West Regional fmal. 
The defending national champions, still perfect at 33-0 and riding a 44-game winning streak, methodically, sometimes savagely, took apart Utah 83-66 Thursday night to set up a revenge match Saturda~ 
against Seton Hall. 
Several of the Rebels were on the team Seton Hall humiliated 84-61 in the West Regional at Denver in 1989. 
.. It doesn't help us that we beat them two years ago," said Seton Hall coach P.J. Carlesimo. "They'll want to get back at us more." 
Brawny Larry Johnson wasn't on that UNLV team, but he is dominating it now. Johnson had 23 points, most of them from the inside, before leaving with UNLV up 83-62. 
UNLV showed again that it can win any way it chooses. 
Anderson Hunt, who finished with 12 points, sank three 3­pointers and Stacey Augmon, 
who wound up with 15 points, hit two bombs in the first half 
as UNLV took a  41-35 halftime  
lead.  
Utah  (30-4)  held  a  10-7  

advantage before the Rebels went on their only tear of the first half, a 9-0 surge that gave them a 16-10 lead. The teams played even the rest of the half, with Utah trying to slow the tempo and work for one good shot, and UNLV looking to pick up the pace and open up the middle with bombs from the outside. 
In the second half, the Rebels eschewed the bombs and went more for a direct hit, driving up the middle virtually unchallenged and dominating the backboards on both ends. 
Through it all, the Rebels played so tightly on defense they seemed to be stuck on Utah's uniforms. Augmon did a superb job holding Utah's Josh Grant to eight points in the first half and 17 in the game. 
Guard Greg Anthony, who dished off 10 assists, kept his hands in the face of Utah guards and virtually took them out of the game. 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Church Palm Sunday 
Saturday, March 23 s:oo p.m. Fr. James E. McDonald, C.S.C~ Sunday, March 24 Io:oo a.m. Fr. Edward Malloy, c.s.c. II:4S a.m. Fr. Michael Himes 
, 
Summer 8JJec1Cl/b'TiJt






STORAGEes 
RESERVATION CALL NOW I 683-1959 I 
* 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

* 
APPROX 21/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 *GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 



Master Mini Warehouses 
Friday, March 22, 1991 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Navy, 
Air Force, and Army ROTC will sponsor a 5K run March 24 at Stepan Center at noon. Registration is at 11 a.m., and the entry donation is $3.00. All proceeds go to financially troubled families of servicemen in the gulf. 

•The 
Irish Heartlltes 3 & 6 mile fun runs are coming up April 11th. Students and staff should start training now. 

•Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's salllng team: We will be starting mandatory practices Monday, March 18, for all members who would like to participate in the Freshman Ice Breakers. For more information, call Julie Garden at 284-5197. 

•Any 
teams Interested in the Bookstore Hall of Fame game should submit applications to the S.U.B. secretary by March 22. 

•Scorekeepers 
are needed for the Bookstore Basketball tourney. All interested should contact Shelley Guilbaut at X2549. 

•Women's 
Bookstore sign-ups March 26th from 6-9pm at the Sarin Room of La Fortune and the lobby of Haggar at St. Mary's. 

•Free 
Aerobics classes in Stepan Center every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, from 12:15-1:15 pm. Classes begin 3/20. 

•Spring 
Yoga class will be held Wed. evenings beginning on march 27th, in room 114 in Loftus Center from 6:30-8:30 pm. Sign ups are in the NVA office. Cost is $15 for six sessions. 




--Ihe-0_1:-.~-~~er-------­
. -~~.L-=-Y~ --­
is looking for interested and enthusiastic people to fill the following paid position: 
Graphics Editor 
• 
Excellent portfolio material 

•
First hand experience with the workings of a 


newspaper. Applicants should have graphics experience on Macintosh computers. Interested people should submit a resume and a one-page personal statement to Lisa Eaton at the Observer office by Friday, March 23 at Spm. Any questions should be directed to Lisa at 239-7471. 
I~HalrCutdngCo. 



\J •
1 

1VI • 

• r1· M • 
.L. . 
• H 
• .H

M • M • 
• 
• H 

PE 
LE 
INClUDIS PRECISION CUT (i SHAMPOO INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTURE ·
REDI<£N 
G~APE RD., MISHAWAKA PROFESSIONAL 277-7946 HOURS: Daily 9-8
PRODUCTS 
Sat 9-6 Sun. 11-5 

• Hair longer than shoulder lenglh $1 0 aci:Jitional 
~ol Ctncago HBII Culling Co. 1991 


U___________________ 
------------------------.
I 
l
The Observer 

Friday, March 22, 1991 page 19 
I 
SPORTS SHORTS Jayhawks demolish Hoosiers in first half Razorbacks steam roll Tide; advance to Elite Eight 


CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) -Kansas' near-perfect start ended Indiana's hopes of a local Final Four. 
The third-seeded Jayhawks opened a 20-point lead within the first 7 112 minutes and went on to an 83-65 victory over second-seeded Indiana in the Southeast Regional semifinals, the Hoosiers' worst loss of the season and worst ever in the NCAA tournament. 
Kansas (25-7) will meet top­seeded Arkansas (34-3), which beat Alabama 93-70 on Thursday night, in the regional championship game on Saturday for a spot in the Final Four. 
The Final Four will be held at Indianapolis, just an hour from Indiana's Bloomington campus and Hoosier fans had hoped for a quick drive to see Bob Knight go after his fourth national championship. 
There was little hope for Indiana (29-5) from the start against Kansas as the J ayhawks had six 3-point field goals when the Hoosiers had that many points as their first 20-point lead came at 26-6 with 12:34 to play in the first half. 

Third-ranked Indiana, which trailed by 11 in the first half to Florida State before rallying for the second-round victory, never got closer than 11 points the rest of the game as Kansas, which was knocked for its lack of rebounding, dominated the boards. 
Kansas had 15 offensive re­bounds in the first half, two less than Indiana's total for the opening 20 minutes. 
The 12th-ranked Jayhawks, who had 28 rebounds in the first half, led 49-27 at halftime and the closest Indiana got in the second half was 7 4-61 with 
2:18 to play. 
Terry Brown led Kansas with 23 points, while Sean Tunstall had 15 and Alonzo Jamison 14. 
Calbert Cheaney led Indiana with 23 points and Damon Bailey added 20. 
The start was nearly perfect. Kansas went up 7-0, 13-2 and 23-4 as the outside shooting lived up to its regular-season form. The Jayhawks made six of their first seven attempts from 3-point range. 
When Tunstall made his sec­ond 3 of the game and Kansas' sixth, the Jayhawks led 26-6. 

presents: 

.. 
The 11th Annual Spring Gospel Fest 
((Long fl'ime Coming" 
Sunday, March 24th, 1991 7:00pm Washington Hall University of Notre Dame 

Everyone was waiting for Indiana to establish defensive dominance and get off the run that would get the Hoosiers back in the game. Something along the lines of the 21-2 burst to start the second half against Florida State. 
Kansas missed 10 straight shots and didn't score for 3:30, but Indiana could manage only six points in that span to pull to 28-17. 
Kansas took control again, but this time it was inside as Richard Scott came up with a four-point possession when he converted his own missed free throw. He did it again minutes later when Mark Randall was trying to complete a three-point play. That made it 43-25 with 
2:30 left. 
Bailey scored down low for Indiana, but Kansas closed the half with a 6-0 run with Jamison scoring the last four points inside on rebounds. 
Kansas had never beaten Indiana in NCAA tournament play, losing the 1940 and 1953 championship games to the Hoosiers. 
Razorbacks 93, Tide 70 

Lee Mayberry found his shooting touch in the second half, scoring 15 of his 16 points as top-seeded Arkansas broke open a close game and routed Alabama 93-70 Thursday night in the semifinals of the NCAA Southeast Regional. 
Arkansas (34-3) will play Kansas on Saturday, with the winner going to the Final Four at Indianapolis. 
The loss continued Alabama's frustration in the regional semifinals. The Crimson Tide (23-10) has reached the Sweet 16 five times in the last six years, and lost every time. 
In the second half, Alabama closed an early six-point Razorback lead to 49-4 7 on two free throws by Robert Horry after the Arkansas bench was 
hit with a technical foul, but that was as close as the Tide would get. 
A 7-1 Arkansas run that took only 43 seconds opened up a 56-48 lead. A basket by Harry made it 57-52, but Arkansas then scored nine straight points, including a 3-pointer by Mayberry and a steal and dunk by Ron Huery. 
Todd Day led Arkansas with 31 points. Oliver Miller, plagued by foul trouble in the first half, finished with 15 points. 
James Robinson, whose prac­tice time was limited by a bad left knee, scored 21 points for Alabama. Harry had 18 and Melvin Cheatum 13 for the Tide. 

Donation: $1.00 
-.




Come out and join us! 
page 20 The Observer Friday, March 22, 1991 
Notre Dame officials comment on Knight findings 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, graduating. We have made Berticelli, who recently coaching opportunity for President of the University. great efforts in these areas, but completed his first season at volunteers and especially one
Sports Editor 

"One of the parts of the report it takes work. We're not perfect, Notre Dame, while voicing from your own university. Also, 
Il 
l 
l 
Mter the release of the Knight Commission report, colleges and universities around the country are trying to assess the possible impacts on their athletic programs. 
The party line at the University of Notre Dame, however, is that all systems are go. 
"I think that there is nothing undoable or earth-shattering in the report," commented Executive Vice-President Father 
E. William Beauchamp. "People recognize that these are things which have to be done. The first steps were taken at the most recent NCAA convention. Many things in the report were already scheduled to come up at the next NCAA convention." 
A school which has long prided itself on the integrity and success of its athletic teams, Notre Dame does not stand to be greatly affected. 
"There should not really be any changes here," assessed 
to be strongly emphasized to university governing boards had to do with presidential authority and oversight. This is already in place at Notre Dame, and has been for the whole modern era. 
"I feel total support from our board of trustees and I am confident in the quality of our structures. Father Beauchamp and Mr. Rosenthal [athletic director] are most involved in athletic affairs, but I am still the top of all policy decisions." 
Malloy also pointed out that aside from having the necessary positive committment to integrity, the University of Notre Dame enjoys an absence of many negative structures which perpetuate the abuses of college athletics. 
..Unlike other campuses, we do not have athletic dorms and booster clubs," observed Malloy. "There was a big stress in the report on only admitting those student-athletes who will make legitimate progress toward but as far as structures go, we are all right." 

Yet the administration was not the only segment of the university community to warmly welcome the Commission's recommendations. 
"I wholeheartedly support it," stated Notre Dame hockey coach Ric Schafer. "We fully support it because those are already the rules we play by. We will be well under the 20­hour a week practice limits. 
"The NCAA reduced the number of games from 38 to 34; this does not affect us because we only play 33 games. Scholarships were cut from 20 down to 18; this does not affect us because we just raised our number of scholarships from eight up to ten. Finally, the NCAA says we can have two full-time coaches and one graduate assistant. We have exactly that anyhow." 
Men's soccer coach Mike 
specific concerns, echoed Schafer's support. 
"I really don't think that most of the changes will have a major effect in soccer," said Berticelli. "Some changes concern us, as far as the game itself. As long as staff and scholarship cuts are consistent, I really have no problem with them. Admissions and grades are no problem for us. 
. "For the most part, the majority of the rules will not hurt schools like Notre Dame, who typically have strong student-athletes and are geared toward creating an environment where academics are first. Kids are here for education, and we have to prioritize that. 
"But I would like to see the NCAA allow more room for volunteers or assistants," continued Berticelli. "If you have a graduate student who is interested in coaching, it is not good to close the door on the the rule prohibiting soccer players from playing on outside teams while school is in session is unfair to those schools, such as the Ivy League, who have no spring training of their own. That rule may hinder the growth of soccer players to a 
degree."  
Malloy  summed  up  his  
feelings  with  a  meas ured  
applause.  

"I think that they went about it the right way," remarked Malloy. "They brought in to testify individuals from every segment of the athletic and academic community and were not naive about any part of the schools or country. In their meetings, they eliminated some things on which they did not totally agree. The final document was worked on by good people for a long time. It is a good reflection on the need for athletic reform. 
"I hope this is taken seriously. We intend to do so here." 

Denver partnership hopeful for National -League expansion team 

J f t 
L_j________~ .. ~ ----­

NEW YORK {AP) -The chairman of the National League expansion committee said Thursday that divisional realignment was unlikely when two teams are added for the 1993 season. 
Pittsburgh Pirates chairman Douglas Danforth, the head of the expansion committee, also said the NL and the American League have only one more month to settle the division of $190 million in expansion fees, or else commissioner Fay Vmcent will decide the matter. 
Danforth said he hoped that the two leagues would make a rmal choice on expansion cities at the owners' meetings in Los Angeles on June 12-13. The ex­pansion committee already has visited the three Florida cities: Miami, Orlando and St. Petersburg. It will visit Buffalo, N.Y., and Washington on Monday and go on to Denver the following day. 
Denver's ownership group ex-

Softball 
continued from page 24 

to be a surer fielding team ifwe are going to be successful," said Boulac. The Irish defense has let down the pitchers in re­cent games and given other teams the opportunity to come from behind. 
The Irish have already been affected by injuries. Freshman pitcher Carrie Miller suffered a muscle injury in her pitching shoulder against Bowling Green at the Sycamore Classic over break. The injury will keep Miller ofT the mound this week­end. 
Filling in for her will be Ronny Alvarez who pitched in five games last year, but has not practiced as a pitcher this year. Alvarez threw five solid innings in the second game against Bowling Green allowing only one run. 
Boulac is confident his team can rebound from their early season losses this weekend and the rest of the year. 
"It's just a matter of mentally staying in each ballgame. We have to start each game with intensity and play as a team. If we can do that, we will have a successful season," said Boulac. 
panded when Adolph Coors Co. of Golden, Colo., agreed last Friday to invest $30 million in equity, advertising and promo­tion. In addition, the backers of the prospective team agreed to name their proposed 43,000­seat stadium Coors Field. 
Danforth said he didn't think the 12 existing NL teams w~uld agree to a realignment of the divisions which have been in place since 1969. Because Chicago and St. Louis refused to go to the West Division, they were placed in the East then and Atlanta was placed in the West. 
"I'm not saying it's a foregone conclusion we will not (realign), but it's unlikely, Danforth said. 
He said that even if two east­ern teams were selected, it was possible that they would be placed in different divisions. 
Danforth said after next week's visit, he will meet with his other expansion committee members: NL president Bill 


is currently looking for Sports Writers. If you want to deliver sports news to the Notre Dame/Saint Marys community each day, then you should attend a meeting on Tuesday, March 26 outside The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune at 7:30 p.m. If you are unable to attend, Notre Dame students please call Dave Dieteman at 283-1407; Saint Mary's students call 
Christine Penote at 284-5088. 

White, Phillies owner Bill Giles and New York Mets co-owner Fred Wilpon. 
"We'll see if we. can reach a consensus in ranking the six cities, II Danforth said. "We'll probably call a special meeting after that." 
At that meeting, the expansion committee would brief the en­tire major league ownership on its findings. While some officials in the commissioner's office believe a rmal vote will not be possible until July or August, Danforth thinks it is possible to conclude the process by the quarterly meetings in Los Angeles. 
"I'd like to get it over with as soon as possible," he said. "The teams should be able to get going as early as they can." 
Vincent has said the division of the money must be settled before cities can be selected. The AL wants a share of the $95 million-a-team fees, while the NL wants to retain all the money. In the past, each league has kept its own expansion fi!.Oney. 
John Antonucci, chairman of the Colorado Baseball Partner­ship, said Coors' involvement as a limited partner boosts his group's equity over $100 million. 
"We thought it was important to have Coors' participation be­cause they·are the major name in Colorado,II he said. "Coors participation is paramount to the success of the franchise. It will allow is to have financial stability into the next century." 

Fr. Regis Duffy 
will speak in the Hesburgh Library Lounge at 6:30PM Friday March 22, 1991. 
sponsored by: ICHTHUS 
Questions? Call Chris Greiveldinger x-1743 Kris Hughes x-3525 Robert Benedetto x-3022 

We're just minutes from Notre Dame, University Park Mall, the toll road and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community with spacious, well-kept grounds h~ a lot of appe~i to the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­
~ency mamtenance service ... and we have an activities program that Includes free aerobics classes, social functions, team sports and much much more. ' If you're looking for the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we'll show you comfortable, affordable apartment living! 
Efficiencies from $270 -featuring ­1-Bedrooms from $285 • P;anned .~iv~ies Program2-Bedrcioms from $345 + Beautiful Clubhouse & Pool 
• Air Condrtioning + Cable r.l Available 

• Disposal • Laundry Rooms272-1880 • Basketball Court 
• Picnic Tables &Grills 

Office Hours. Mon.·Frf. 9-7 • Volleyball Court + Gazebo Sat. 10-4 and Sun. 12·4 ' 
• 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance Service 


..Ask about the Hicko_ry Village Summer Breeze . .. the easy and economical way to keep your apartment through the summer and still go home.  



rHICKORij • DlLLAqE 
Conveniently located on Hickory Road, just north of Edison Road 
NO APPLICATION FEE! 
Save $15 when you apply for an apartment at Hickory VIllage Just present this coupon to the leasing agent and the · $15 application fee will be waived.
15 Exp/rN 911191 
Friday, March 22, 1991 The Observer page 21 



Orlando magical in upset of Spurs; Rockets clinch berth 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -Jeff in the Midwest Division despite third quarter and Otis Thorpe Jazz 1 00, Hornets 94 including 13 in the first quarter. Turner's layup put Orlando losing nine of their last 12 road added 11 fourth-quarter points SALT LAKE CITY -Karl Mike Gminski added 15 points ahead for good and Jerry games. as Houston won a franchise Malone scored 31 points and for the Hornets, while Kendall Reynolds added two free throws Nick Anderson led the Magic record 10th consecutive game. John Stockton dished out 16 Gill scored 14 and Rex and blocked Sean Elliott's 3-with 27 points and found The Kings lost their 30th assists as the Utah Jazz beat the Chapman 13. point shot in the final 10 Turner cutting to the basket straight road game, an NBA Charlotte Hornets 100-94 seconds Thursday night to help along the baseline for the layup single-season record. It also Thursday night. Warriors 136, Nuggets 118 the Magic hold off the San that gave Orlando a 103-102 was Sacramento's 18th straight Charlotte held a 79-77 lead OAKLAND, Calif. -The Antonio Spurs for a 105-102 lead with 21 seconds left. loss at The Summit. early in the fourth quarter Golden State Warriors got 95 victory. Reynolds added his crucial free The victory enabled the before the Jazz took control on points from their big three of 
The win stopped a four-game throws 11 seconds later after Rockets to clinch their seventh a 12-6 run. Mitch Richmond, Chris Mullin 
losing streak for Orlando, which San Antonio's Rod Strickland straight playoff berth and their Stockton, who finished with and Tim Hardaway to beat the led by 11 points before San turned the ball over trying to go 42-24 record is their best-ever 20 points, had two baskets and Denver Nuggets 136-118 on 
Antonio made up the deficit one-on-one against the Magic's after 66 games. The win broke Mike Brown had four of his six Thursday night.with a 19-8 spurt in the last five Scott Skiles. the franchise record of nine points during the pivotal spurt. Richmond had 30 points,minutes of the third quarter. straight victories, set in 1977, Jeff Malone scored 16 points Mullin had 29 and Hardaway
The loss was the· third in four Rockets 98, Kings 87 and put the Rockets 18 games for Utah and Thurl Bailey scored 26 as Golden State won games for the Spurs, who are HOUSTON -Kenny Smith over .500 for the first time since scored 15. Johnny Newman for the sixth time in eightchallenging Utah for first place scored 12 of his 20 points in the 1985-86. scored 21 points for Charlotte, games. 
Harris pushes women's tennis team to new levels of excellence 
By RICH SZABO country began playing tennis 
Mary was great, and he man­The NCAA tournament looms Sports Writer just as a hobby. aged to get me out of it." as a possiblity for the Irish. "Both my parents played, so I Her freshman year was a year Likewise, the individual tour­
The outstanding development decided to get into it," said of growing. "I was the only nament is within Harris' reach, of the Irish women's tennis Harris. "I started when I was freshman in the top six," she thanks to solid play and big team has been rewarded with 12, and my dad gave me lessons said, "and I was really nervous wins, such as a 7-5, 6-4 victory first-time national rankings and at first." in the beginning; At the end of over Texas' Carla Cossa, ranked a chance for an NCAA tour­At age 14, Harris began the season I got tired, because 23rd nationally. nament bid. The play of Melissa working with Jorge Paris, the Tracy was hurt and I was "Melissa has been playing su­Harris has been a major factor person to whom Harris gives playing one every match. I perbly," said Louderback. "She in the team's success. much of the credit for her de­definitely wasn't ready for it. had a win against a girl from 
Harris, a sophomore from velopment. Paris has also This year is much more re­Texas who made the NCAA Coral Springs, Florida, plays coached professional Jay laxed, and I don't put as much quarterfinals last year. She will second singles for the Irish, and Berger. pressure on myself." be moving up in the rankings has also competed at the top "Having a real strong coach This year has brought na­and could make a big jump." spot when regular number-one was the best thing for me," said Melissa Harris tional exposure for the Irish. A Harris will most likely have a player Tracy Barton has been Harris. "I was lazy and wouldn't strong recruiting effort brought shot at an at-large bid. Tracy on the sidelines. do anything unless told to, and School All-American. Christy Faustmann, Lisa Barton, at first singles, and 
In compiling a 25-4 record he really pushed me." Also, in the first year of na­Tholen, and Terri Vitale, three Barton/Faustmann, at first this year, she has, said Irish Harris' Saint Thomas Aquinas tional-18s, she was ranked sec­excellent freshman who start in doubles, could also reach the coach Jay Louderback, High School team won the state ond in the state and won the the top six, to Notre Dame. individual tournament. "brought stability to the team. title during her freshman year, state closed tournament. Harris said, "They (freshmen) Harris practices her aggres­We can count on a point when and she reached the finals as an Jennifer Capriati, now a well­have obviously added a lot to sive baseline game two to three Melissa is playing singles. She individual for the next three known professional, was top­the program. They are very ex­hours a day. moves well, has great speed, years. She was the Florida State ranked, but did not play in the citing players, and we would be "I like to stay at the baseline and plays with consistency." Player of the Year in 1987 and same tournament. much worse off without them." and nail every ball," she said. 
The 44th-ranked player in the 1989, as well as a Prince High Harris' college decision came Said Faustmann, "Melissa is ''I'm happy to make two volleys down to William & Mary and definitely doing her part for the during a match, though I'm Notre Dame. team, going out and getting coming in a little more now." 
"I went early decision to wins. She doesn't worry about Contributing the success of William & Mary," recalled anything. She just goes out and the Irish program to Harris, "and I didn't realize it plays. She's very supportive, Louderback, Harris says, "It's was that binding. I decided to always giving me positive re­obvious how much he has done go to ND two days before sign­marks, little things you need to for this program. He is one of 
ing. The coach at William & hear. It's very helpful." 
ROFFLER 

PHONE (219) 233-4957 SORBIE PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
ROCCO'S 9TYL~ SHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR 
the most laid-back people I have ever met, and he totally relaxes you. All he wants is for you to try your hardest." 
The Irish (9-6), currently 21st in the country, will be trying their hardest in a four day, four match weekend. Starting with Oklahoma on Friday (4:00pm), the Irish then host Michigan on Saturday {2:00 pm), Ohio State on Sunday (11:00 am), and Boston College on Monday (3:30 pm). The matches will be at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, or, if the weather permits, outdoors at 



~.....-------~-""!"!:oo:------------------------­
,.·;t·;. ' 
1 
i 
I 
~ '~\ i 
I )) 
I ) ! 

~ ·--·~------­

page 22 The Observer Friday, March 22, 1991 


Fencers complete second day of NCAA competition 
Observer staff repon 

STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -Olga Chernyak was undefeated and defeated four opponents Thursday as Penn State beat Notre Dame 9-4 in the final round for the women's team title in the NCAA Fencing Championships. 
The Penn State women had defeated Yale 9-5 and Temple 9-7 to reach the final, while Notre Dame stopped Pennsylvania 9-4 and used an extra fencer to defeat Columbia 9-8 in overtime to qualify for the fmal round. 
"It was really a heartbreaker for myself as well as the girls," said coach Michael DeCicco. "For our team to go that far and then not to reach our goals was difficult, certainly, but our women are excellent athletes and handled the pressure of both days with an amazing amount of grace." Penn State had 1,750 points. Notre Dame finished with 1,550, followed by Temple, 
Irish women's hoops falls in first round of NIT 
Observer Staff Report 

AMARILLO, Texas -Amy Vanos scored 17 points to lead Santa Clara to an 81-65 victory over top-seeded Notre Dame Thursday night in the first round of the Women's National Invitational Tourna-ment. 
Santa Clara took a 39-19 halftime lead behind the balanced attack of Julie Lienert who had nine points and Vanos who scored eight. Melissa King added 14 po:nts, while Lienert finished with 13 for Santa Clara. 
After trailing by as many as 26 points early in the second half, the Irish stormed back to within 12, at 52-40. However, Santa Clara then outscored Notre Dame 15-7 to quell the Irish rally. 
Notre Dame shot a scorching 
56.3 percent from the floor, but were decimated by Santa Clara's offensive rebounding. Santa Clara held a 15-5 edge on the offensive boards. 
Led in scoring by Margaret Nowlin's 17 points and Coquese Washington's 14, Notre Damehad 18 turnovers in the frrst half. 
Krissi Davis, who had led the Irish in scoring for the last five games, went down early in the frrst half with a knee injuy and did not return. 
Associated Press and Rose Pietrzak 
Columbia, Fairleigh Dickinson, Yale, Wayne State, Penn, North Carolina, Stanford, Wisconsin and New York University. 
The Nittany Lions, who were shut out of the individual foil finals Wednesday, also came back to earn three All-America awards with a national title in the individual'men's sabre competition. 
Freshman Vitali Nazlimov beat Notre Dame's Leszek Nowosielski 5-7, 5-2, 5-2 to win the title. 
Notre Dame's Chris and Ed Baguer finished 14th and 21st, respectively, in the individual sabre competition. The sabre team rounds will be fought Saturday. 
The third day of competition in the five-day event is Friday, with finals in the men's individual epee and men's foil team events. 
Associated Press and Kaitlyn Hosker contributed to this repo_rt. 


Lacrosse faces preseason number-one in home opener 
From Psycho Killer to S.M.C. President 
~you've come a long way baby" 

IKl@~IP~ ~ 11 ~11 

~®QJlir®®IID IL©\Wil)Y 


nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance ofbeing accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top la·N firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for 
information and class starting dates. The 
Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the 
one pre-law course that determines the 
course of your law career. 
w






I KAPLAN 
DON'T COMPETE WITI-I A KAPLAN STIJDENT-BE ONE 1717 E. SOOTH IEM> A\IE. SOOTH fEN), IN 46037 219/272-4135 
6/10/91 LSAT Prep Class starts 3/25/91 . 
....................... 

Observer Staff Photo/David Lee The Irish sabre team, shown here at the NCAA Midwest Regional Tournament, competed in individual events Thursday at the NCAA championships. Senior leszek Nowosielski placed second overall. 
The Irish players see this as a big test. 
"If we play our best game, we will be competitive throughout the game," said All-American candidate and tri-captain Dave Barnard. "We will need a team effort. Individuals cannot beat a good team but a good team can defeat another team." 


How to start your law career 6efore you start lawsChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% 
Last year, the Irish had some glaring weaknesses. Notre Dame won· five faceoffs to Loyola's 21. Loyola also outshot the Irish 61-12. In order to keep the game close, the Irish will have to improve in these key areas. 
"If we believe in ourselves and play an intense 60 minutes, we will be able to stay close throughout the game," said tri-captain Eamon McAnaney. 
There is something personal at stake for Barnard. This is the first time that he will go head-to-head with his brother , Matt, at a competitive level. Matt, a freshman at Loyola, captained the Fairfield Prep (Conn.) team and garnered 
BY MARK McGRATH Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team will begin a tough three-game stretch this Saturday when it plays Loyola of Maryland at 2 p.m. in Moose Krause Stadium. The Greyhounds were ranked num­ber one in the USILA preseason poll. 
The Greyhounds are presently tied with Princeton for the number three ranking in the nation after Loyola suffered a loss to the University of Virginia. 
"They (Loyola) are one of the best teams in the nation," said Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan. "However, they have weaknesses and we will try to exploit those on Saturday." 

Last year, the Irish played in 
a tournament at Loyola and 
suffered a 18-3 loss in the 
opening game. In that game, 
Loyola took 61 shots and Chris 
Parent set a Notre Dame 
record with 29 saves in that 
game. 
"I think they are awesome," 
said Parent. "However, a pro­
lific performance might help 
propel us to new heights of our 
ability that we have not un­. veiled yet." 



Dave Barnard 
The Greyhounds lost goalie Charlie Toomey and All­American midfielder Brian Kroneberger to graduation. Despite these losses, they re­turn a very capable squad led by Jim Blanding, Chris Colbeck, and Kevin Beach. 

{ . 
f I 
.LJ 
page 23
The Observer 
CROSSWORD
LECTURES 

12:15 p.m. Friday Forum, "Feminist Theory and the 
Augustine crooked mile"
Media," Prof. Jim Collins. CSC. 1 Actor Baldwin 
36 Ending for east 60 Girl in TV's
5Comply 
or west "Grand" 9 A-to-Z 

2:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering 61 Heath for
37 Odin's spouse:
14 Kind of gravure

Seminar, "Modeling High A.O.A. Forces and Moments Us­Heathcliff ing a Neural Network," Dr. James Steck, Wichita State 15 Lacoste of Var. 62 Patois 
38 Smashing line
tennis

University. Room 258, Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. 63 Komatik 
from Tennyson?
16 Unique

Sponsored by Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. 64The-,
41 Actor Mark

17 Russian sea comics crime---Baker
18 Singer Billy--fighter

4:30 p.m. Development Workshop Schedule, Spring 
42Fia.'s-­

19 Site of 65 Kind of paper
1991, "The Policy Dilemmas of Adjustment in Poland," 
Singing Tower
Leonardo's 66 Wizened

Wiodzimierz Siwinski, Warsaw University and University 
"The Last 43 Shirt section 67 Zola

of Notre Dame. Room 131, Decio. Sponsored by Eco­
Supper" protagonist
44 Tuck away

nomics Department. 
20 Ringing line 
45 Back

from Poe? 47 Marcel's waves DOWN
23 Typical De Mtlle film 48 Service org. 

1 Azzazame, e.g.CAMPUS 24 Wrestler's goal 49 Clapton or 2 Knowledge 
25 Maxim Blare 

3 Cousin of etc. 28 Cobra's kin 51 Brilliant line 4 Fisk attendee,
7 p.m.: "Juniors: Pr~paring & Planning for Your Job 
31 Deli order from Whitman? e.g.

Search, Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored 
5 African 

by Career and Placement. 
antelope ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Grace 

7:30 p.m. Opening Reception with Slides and Lecture 
7 Chemical 
Ron Kovatch, Ceramics. Room 200, Riley Hall. · compound &Island off 
27ln re 39 Joey 52 MannheimScotland
8 p.m. Faculty Recital, Carolyn Plummer, violinist and 40 Famous castle mister 
9 Kasparov 29 Fumes
Karen Buranskas, cellist. Washington Hall. on the Loire 53 Actress 
concern 

30 Constellatio:"l or 45 Slightest hint Swenson 10 Exotic pine 54 Myra of the
46 Jolly boat
8:15 p.m. Glee Club concert, Washington Hall. Doors 11 Kurt of the Met keyboard
31 Multiply 48Ahead
will open at 7:15p.m. Admission free. 12 Single 55 Pointless so "Drink"
13 Hamiltons 32 Take off 56 Jot 
playwright
21 Dot 57 Finest part
33 Film parts 
Saturday 51 Loot sa Bombeck
22 He defeated Ali:
2 p.m. Graduate cello recital. Sara Thomas and pianist 35 Monastery
Feb. 1978 

Patrick Burr. Annenberg Auditorium. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
l"'JE GO\ TO S~'{ 
I 
\.\OSB£5, l.IJE Rt.A.\l'{ ?ER~ECI(D ~~ OLD 0\JPL\c~TOR TillS \IME! 
~ 3-.n 

t ~~oW! CDNPLETf WPL\CA\t. Ot-~t:, 
~C:J~, \t-I~D a~ Vl~¥..\~G A. 

I KNOW l'IJE Mwt.. P-0\JPUCI\\E OF 
ill( 
1 

f>-~'S~ER! DOE'S Mi. -rut. WOR.~ t>-ND I GU A-LL 11-lt. (J(£.0 \I.' "~ 'S 
... t>. TelN_ Sf>-I?.' 
JIJST t-\~ 60()/) S\D£. . HE 


heads
25 Stroll Answers to any three clues in this 
=+=+-:-+:--:+::::-i 26 Andrea-­37 "A--must be puzzle are available by touch-tone disaster: July always talking phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 1956 ...": S. Johnson minute). 
JAY HOSLERBILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 

•
II W~'S SD S\t-\~LE TO N>D ,t>.N. £11-\\C~\OR! t ~1 Kf'.lOW W~~ I DIDI'tT 
\'r\1\'t\( ot \1 
BHbRt:! 
~C)I,f\IE G:lllt.~ '3J M~i, LET's m S;)~EOf'.lt. E\.St. TR'{ T\-\\S 0~£, 


1: ]()

..I'YZ AFFAI/2 
6ood Oue§llon 2:1(1 MUSIC AN() ICI C~IAM SUNDAIS Chl§el J:OU AT FIIL[)t1()USI MALL J:.-.(1
Ice-nine 
-~: I U

Tarlar 6un
-'lltti~IJ) ••~' «111 d cJc· lh 14 ~~~ 4 'I -It ' I< c• ~:15
cr·earn \und.t•• ••• ..1:1'1' JE.$TEI2 +Fr·ee mues It• I h ~ t tJ:tt' IH'( p.IP. 
+If It r·atns, bands and 1.-.-{ n•am \+Ill .._ljand u:hedul.-: rnt)\'~ f() lhe()d()re's. 
-





Friday Saturday 3 Men & a Little Lady 
8:00 10:30 $2 
STUDENT UNION BOARD
Cushing Auditorium 

-

~...,--.-_..."""'!.~---~·--r-------.,__........._.....,._______~-------.~--------­
i 
il 



Sports 
page 24 Friday, March 22, 1991 
Baseball team travels to Virginia for three games 

By ANTHONY KING Assistant Sports Editor 
The 18th-ranked Notre Dame baseball team journeys to Charlottesville, Virginia for a three-game series this weekend with the VIrginia Cavaliers. The 12-5 Irish meet the 7-8-2 Cavaliers for the first time ever. The Irish hope to continue a five game winning streak, which included A win over third-ranked Louisiana State and the College Baseball Oassic championship. 
The Cavaliers are coming off a victory over Georgia, last year's national champions. Despite their unimpressive record, the Cavs should provide a good test for Notre Dame's upcoming series in the Metrodome in Minneapolis. The Cavaliers are led by all-ACC catcher Kevin O'Sullivan, who is batting .339. 
"I believe we can beat them," explained Coach Pat Murphy. "We just have to concentrate on what we have to do . " 
Murphy believes this will be a difficult road trip, especially with a 12-hour bus ride to Virginia. The Irish will also be playing in front of a small crowd, and not the two or three thousand they've been getting lately. Yet, Murphy sticks to his team's motto for this year, "No excuses." · 
"Beating an ACC team is im­portant, because they are a strong baseball conference," said Murphy...We've already beaten Big Eight, Pac 10, Southwest Conference, and Southeastern Conference teams." 
Getting starts for the Irish are sophomore Chris Michalak (2-0, 2.70 ERA), sophomore Pat Leahy (3-0, 3.20 ERA), and freshman Tom Price (2-1, 3.00 ERA). Murphy is particularly impressed with the play of sec­ond baseman Greg Layson and outfielder Dan Bautch. 
"Bautch goes unnoticed, he does the things that don't ap­pear in the box scores," said Murphy...He's our off tackle, our Mike Heldt." 
If the Irish get an early lead, Virginia should look out. Notre Dame is 9-1 when scoring first. Another key determinant of the Irish's performances is their run production. In their wins, they are averaging eight runs a game, and only five runs a game in their losses. 

With basketball season over, Digger criticism continues 
With the---------------­N C A A 

ournament 
winding its 
ay down to the Elite Eight, the annual rumor m i l l surrounding the hiring and firing of 


Dave Dleteman
coaches is hitting fifth 
Sports Editor 
gear. 
Notre Dame, like Seton H a l l 

·-----------------­
Syracuse, 

exas A & M, UTEP, and Xavier, has been plagued by its share of vicious rumors. Yet the Irish are sitting out this edition of March Madness, and the rumor mill thus grinds that much harder-especially when it comes to coach Digger Phelps. 
But rumors are rumors and should be given no credence. Digger has said his piece and should be left in peace. 
Speculation on how coaches behave before being hired and fired aside, the rumors about Digger's impending resignation or f:tring have degenerated into something akin to beating a dead horse. 
Yet Phelps, beginning his third decade as head coach at Notre Dame, has not only been the target of rumors concerning his job security. He has also been afflicted by anemic fan support and polemical t-shirts. 
Griping about Digger might be a way to waste time on boring nights or impress your parents, but in the end, it does more harm than good. The phenomenon merits consideration from several angles. 
First, what is the sense of booing Digger before a big game? No matter how powerful the opponent, a sizable amount of ticketholders (as distinguished from fans) can be counted on to boo Digger-provided that the Irish have a losing record or have recently lost a game that seemed, to the armchair coaches of America, a guaranteed "W." No team too good, no team too bad and no game too important. 

By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team is looking forward to its home opener against Loyola at 3:30 today. 
'"It will be nice to play on our own field instead of traveling," said junior Missy Unn. 
The Ramblers, a Midwestern Collegiate Conference opponent, come to South Bend for a conference doubleheader. Loyola lost only three starters from last year's team, which the Irish defeated in all four games. The Ramblers will be led by the arm of Terri Sullivan (4-17 with a 3.55 ERA) and the bat of Patti Zuhlke, who hit .307 last season. The Ramblers could give the Irish some trouble. 
.. The thing about Loyola is that they really want to beat us and they always come out really tough against us," said Linn. 
On Sunday, the Irish homes­tand continues as MCC oppo­nent, Saint Louis, comes into town for a doubleheader. The Billikens could also cause some trouble for the Irish. The Saint Louis squad fmished second to Notre Dame in the MCC tour­nament after falling to the Irish 3-2 in 13 innings in the cham­pionship game. Overall, the Irish are 2-2 against Saint Louis. 
Pitching will be key in these games as the Billikens return their two top pitchers. 
"They have a fine pitching staff that will keep them in any ball game," said Notre Dame coach Brian Boulac. The staff is anchored by Mikkie McPherson, 7-5 with a 1.09 ERA in 1990 and Lis Schaeffer, 2-7 with a 
1.00 ERA. 
The fmal doubleheader of the homestand is against the Crusaders of Valparaiso who the Irish play Monday at 3:30. The Crusaders return as a more experienced team than the 17­30 squad the Irish defeated in all three confrontations last season. 
Among Valparaiso's 13 re-


Photo by John Studebaker Frank Jacobs swings for the fences at Jake Kline field. The Irish play a series with Virginia this weekend. 
What is accomplished by booing Digger? The throngs of visiting fans from Indiana, Kentucky and Marquette, to name a few, are certainly impressed. No added pressure is put on the team to block out the boos, and the booing probably fires them up to put on a spectacular show for the JACC fans. 
And booing the coach is a great way to entice high school recruits to play here. It seems sickly ironic that those who supposedly express their zeal for victory by booing the coach could easily alienate those same top-calibre players that are whined about for not signing with the Irish. 
Visiting fans, unfortunately, are virtually non-existent when Notre Dame plays on the road. Of course, perhaps the reason that Irish fans never turn out in comparable throngs for road games (excluding this year's Saint John's matchup in Madison Square Garden, which was packed with subway alumni) is because they do nothing but boo. 
Why spend money to travel to Milwaukee to boo Digger at a road game-save money and let the Warrior fans do their job. Marquette's student 
section did a "Fire Digger" chant las December that any Irish boo-bird could 
be proud of. Support for road games, however, can hardly be expected in the 
absence of home court enthusiasm. 
Second, Fighting Irish ticketholders should reflect on the fact tha expectations go both ways. Fans wan wins, as Digger said in a late-season interview, but teams (and coaches) want-and deserve-support. 
The last pro-Digger t-shirt to enjoy widespread circulation (illegal, course) on campus was the "Holtz 
& Phelps -Thank You For Your Support," a Ia Bartles & Jaymes. That shirt came ou in 1988. Nowadays, such literary, one­hundred percent cotton adornments as "Top Ten Reasons Why a Beer is Bette than Digger" are making their rounds. How charming. 
Where were the armchair NB executives and athletic-directors-in­waiting when Notre Dame rose to the occasion repeatedly after the loss o sophomore phenom Monty Williams and junior star LaPhonso Ellis? One 
see DIGGER/page 20 

turning letterers are senior Carla Reiter, junior Tammy Rohleder, sophomore Erin Reiter, and junior Stacy Witnll. Providing the offensive power will be Carla Reiter (.333, 9 RBis, 14 stolen bases) and Rohleder (.287, 15 RBis, 4 homers). Pitchers Erin Reiter 
(1.81 ERA) and Witfill (2.84 ERA) add experience on the mound. 
The Irish won both games against the Crusaders this fall. 
As for the Irish, Boulac has confidence in his team...We can beat any of the teams this weekend," said Boulac. 
To win, the team must recharge an offense which has been struggling lately. In their 7-0 loss to Bowling Green on Wednesday, the Irish had only four hits and only one runner advanced past second base. 
According to Boulac, another problem is defense. ..We need 
see SOFTBALL/page 20 
AP Photo 

Down and Out 
Indiana's Calbert Cheaney squirms through the legs of a Michigan State defender in a game earlier this season. The Hoosiers were down often in Thursday's 83-65 loss to Kansas. See page 19. 









