
VOL. XXIV NO. 42 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Malloy reelected University president; Plans to continue positive direction 
By SANDY WIEGAND and staff members, which will with a different goal of Malloy's, 
Associate News Editor spend 18 months "reflecting on the examination of the 
Notre Dame...its present and "Catholicity of the University; its 
Tlw most encouraging sur­future," he said. mission and identity," he said. prisn Fatlwr Edward Malloy has The group will "try to envi­A task force on evangeliza­had during his first live years sion what (the University's) tion has been one tool in evalu­as prnsidPnt of Notrn Dame has dreams are," Malloy said, and ating Notre Dame's religious lwnn tlw "trPnHmdous support" recommend ways to accomplish objectives, according to Malloy. hn has rnenived. particularly those dreams. Malloy is pleased with his from tlw alumni and Alumni Assessing his first live years, part in increasing the number Board, lw said Ttwsday. and relating past to future of women at Notre Dame, he 
Malloy, whom tlw Notre Dame goals, Malloy said he plans to said, and with the growing Board of Trustees elected continue to advance projects he awareness of women's issues Friday to a secoiHI term as mentioned in his inaugural ad­during his term. He cited the U n i v ~~ rsity pr11 s i d r.n t, said dress. One such project is the designation of last school year alumni have bPon instrunwntal increase of cultural and per­as the "Year of Women," the in llw success of a major pro­sonal diversity of students, fac­formation of the Fac­jPct, tlw most successful fund­ulty and staff at the University, ulty/Student Committee on raising campaign in the history he said. Women, and the decision to of Catholic higlwr nducation. The first steps have already eliminate the gender-based 
Thr. Alumni Board. he said been takPn, he said, in that the admission policy. "eontinuns to be the great undergraduate minority popu­Malloy hopes to augment the stn·ngth of Notre Dame," and lation has doubled during his "international dimension" of its mr.mbers have been a term. 1-'inancial aid to minori­Notre Dame, he said, by in­"tnmumdous boost to all of us ties has also increased, Malloy creasing the number of interna­in tlw administration." said, and "the task force on di­tional centers on campus, and 
Malloy said a main goal for versity will give us a realistic establishing "greater visibility his s1~eond lflrm is to work picture of what we still have to of the University" throughout closely with "Colloquium 2000," do." the country. a group of 100 students. faculty A second task force aided 
see BOARD/ page 4 

Preparation for peace talks is marked by optimism 
MADHID, Spain (APJ -Arabs echoed the Middle East's cen­ity of ceding land for peace with President Bush. 
• Radical opposition I page 6

and lsnwlis. in a rarr. display of turies-old blood feud. the Palestinians, seemed to shut But the U.S. and Soviet lead­optimism ovPr p!!ace prospects, Abbas Musawi, leader of the the door in a CBS interview ers made it clear that any spoke Tuesday of opening the fundamentalist Hezbollah, or "We have come to Madrid in aired Tuesday night, saying he durable peace would have to be doors to a lasting accord as Party of God, proclaimed the a positive spirit, determined to saw no "normal possibility" of achieved by the warring parties tlwy prepared to begin historic conference's opening day "a end the long ordeal of our peo­relinquishing the occupied themselves. "We're not here to talks on their conflicting claims day of Islamic wrath and ple," said Hanan Ashrawi, a Golan Heights to Syria. impose a settlement," Bush to andent lands. mourning to protest against key adviser to the Palestinian That came after Ashrawi had said. "We're here to be a cata­
American attempts to impose delegation. made a point of praising what lyst." 
The United States had worked hegemony on the Muslims." she called Israel's apparent In keeping with the optimistic long and hard to bring the A bombing by llezbollah "We do not wish to wait any willingness to at least talk mood, Shamir met with Gor­parties to the peacH table, killed three Israeli soldiers in longer for peace, and we truly about Arab claims to land bachev at the Soviet Embassy to lllllf~ting strong resistance along southern Lebanon earlier believe that if our counterparts seized by the Jewish state. discuss economic ties. Their the way. But oncr. in the Wednesday, and Israel re­have come here in the same The gathering's sponsors, too, governments restored full rela­Spanish capital, the longtime sponded by bombing what it spirit, our years of waiting will seemed eager to begin the tions earlier this month after a Pnnmies SfHHned impatient to said was a llezbollah base in have come to an end," said Is­historic business at hand. "Let's rupture in 196 7. g1~t down to tl111 businnss of ne­Nabatiyeh, eight miles north of raeli Prime Minister Yitzhak just open the conference and Shamir then met U.S. Secre­gotiation. the Israeli border. Shamir. let's start working," Soviet tary of State James Baker Ill for 
For all thr. optimism, some In Madrid, though, the talk But Shamir, who on Monday President Mikhail Gorbachev an hour. voices -and some actions -was of peace. had left open a narrow possibil-said at a news conference with 
see PEACE! page 6 



Fun fall days 
Freshman Kathy Rutkowski and Juniors Dave Certo and Mark Hoffmann enjoy a beautiful fall day yesterday, playing in the leaves on South Quad. 

U.S. cuts off all military aid to guerrillas in Afghanistan 
ISLAMABJ\D, Pakistan (APJ­For the first time in a decade, the United States has stopped all military aid to Muslim guerrillas lighting to overthrow Afghanistan's communist-style government, diplomatic sources said Tuesday. 
The cutoff took effect Oct. 15, they said, although a U.S.-So­viet pact to end all arms ship­ments to warring parties in Afghanistan's 13-year-old civil war does not go into effect until Jan. 1. 
The United States supports a U.N.-sponsored peace plan providing for a cutoff of weapons to both sides, a cease­lire and peace talks, followed by installation of a transitional government to oversee elec­tions. 

The United States has pro­vided billions in weapons and ammunition to the mujahedeen, or Islamic holy warriors, during the more than nine years the Soviet Red Army fought the rebels in Afghanistan. Moscow withdrew the last of its 115,000 soldiers in February 1989 un­der a U.N.-sponsored accord. 
The conflict then bogged down into a stalemate neither side seemed capable of winning and U.S. aid to the mujahedeen began to drop. 
Most of the U.S. aid had gone to fundamentalist groups con­sidered the most capable of winning on the battlefield. de­spite their anti-American rhetoric. 
"We have not received any aid in ... 1 112 years," said Si­bghatullah Mojaddadi, presi­dent of the self-proclaimed Afghan government-in-exile and leader of one of the most moderate of the seven resis­tance parties based in Pakistan. "We never received as much as some of the other parties." 
Saudi Arabia, the other major backer of the resistance, re­portedly has said privately it will follow Washington's lead and also stop assistance on Jan. 1. 
Diplomats and moderate guerrillas fear private Saudi groups will continue to finance the fundamentalist groups. 
Afghan President Najibullah 
see AID/ page 4 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
These things 
happen in mass 



production? 

The dining hall. It's the ------­place where, three times Jahnelle daily, Notre Dame Harrigan students are given the Asst. Accent opportunity to socialize __....,~E..:dli!.lilllto'-!.r__ and bond together. 
It's the site of circus lunches and finals' week pancake breakfasts. 
It's the home of Yo­cream, meatless baked ziti and red bliss potatoes. 
The dining hall. Within the first few days of freshman year, most ND students come to accept the grave truth: the food simply isn't very good. OK-it's bad, with a few exceptions like chicken strips. 
Even though the food isn't the greatest, and we tend to expect that in the end, we'll live through the experience of eating it. 
But maybe we shouldn't expect anything. Maybe hope is a better word. 
Let's face it: we're at risk. Our lives will be endangered as long as we continue to fre­quent our hallowed dining halls. 
Let me give an example. At one particular meal at the dining hall last year, my good friend Mike gathered together the various components of his dinner (representing all four food groups, I'm sure). 
Included in this meal-o-ecstasy was an all­time favorite: applesauce. 
He began to eat and took a bite of his ap­plesauce. It was here that the trouble began. Friends watched as he stopped swallowing and proceeded to remove a large piece of glass from his mouth. 
Lovely, huh? An unsuspecting ND student innocently tries a little dining hall applesauce and fmds himself in a near-death experience. 
Maybe near-death is a little harsh, but for some reason I don't think that cut glass sliding down a throat would do anyone a whole lot of good. 
Example number two. A few weeks ago my friend Kathryn sat down to dinner at the good 'ole dining hall and began to eat a serving of potatoes. At first glance they seemed perfectly normal-everything you would expect. 
What she didn't expect was to find a nail (you know-the kind you pound into a wall) hidden in these potatoes. She pulled it out and we inspected it. 
It wasn't huge, but it was a little rusty-the typical healthy meal, right? Iron in your diet is a good thing, but that's a little bit much. 
She voiced her complaint to the dining hall manager who apologized, but shrugged and said, "These things happen in mass produc­tion." 
They do? 

An occasional hair in our food isn't desir­able, but it's a little more understandable than rusty metal or large chunks of glass. 
Consider yourself lucky if you have never been close to death while taking part in the "dining hall experience." 
Look at it this way: if you were to be seri­ously injured as a result of dining hall food, you would most likely be taken to the infir­mary. 
Talk about a double-edged sword. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 

News  Production  
Alicia Reale  Kristin Lynch  
Meredith McCullough  Lisa Bourdon  
Sports  Scoreboard  
Dave McMahon  Rolando deAguilar  
Photography  Viewpoint  

John Rock Brian Stalter Rachel Belanger Guy Loranger Lab Tech Accent David Lee Paige Smoron Systems Shonda Williams Mike Murphy Patrick Moran 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Fires burn over 70 000 acres 
• CHARLESTON, W.Va. -Fires blamed on arsonists and smoldering coal mines have damaged more than 70,000 acres in southern West Virginia, and officials worried Tuesday about a lack of help to put them out. More than 135 fires have been spotted since the weekend in 31 counties. Some of the blazes are a week old, said Alan Miller, head of fire control for the state Division of Forestry. "We don't have enough personnel tq adequately get to the fires and contain them," Miller said. Fires in abandoned mines that begin when piles of coal refuse spontaneously combust have flickered through openings in the ground and spread, he said. In some cases, the fires have been smoldering underground for years. "We've had some fires escape from debris burning, but most of them have been set," said Gerald Wimer, head of the forestry division's Huntington-based district. Authorities have estimated damages at more than $20 million. 
Miami mayor indicted 
• MIAMI -Miami Beach Mayor Alex Daoud was in­dicted Tuesday on federal charges of racketeering, extortion and money laundering. A prosecutor accused him of using his office for profit. Daoud announced last 
OF INTEREST 
• 
Free flu shots available today to all students, faculty, staff, and retirees of Notre Dame. Library Concourse and LaFortune, O'Hara Lounge from 10:00 am-6:00p.m. 

• 
Anyone interested in working at or serving on the advisory committed for the new Saint Mary's Coffeehouse should attend an informational meeting tonight at 6:30 in LeMans Hall Lobby. Questions should be directed to Peggy at 284-5063. 

• 
Urban Plunge informational meeting will be held Wednesday, October. 30 at 6:30 p.m. at the Center for So­cial Concerns. 

• 
"Anything But Grad Night" will discuss post grad­uation possibilities for psychology majors. The session will be held tonight at 7:00 in room 239 Madeleva. Spon­sored by Saint Mary's Psychology Club. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/October 29 VOLUME IN SHARES 
~~;.~oEX ~ 
192.70 million "Y 1.14 S&P COMPOSITE 

391.48 --& 1.96 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,061.94 .. 16.32 PRECIOUS METALS GOLDi} $ 0.30 to $361.10/oz. SILVERi} 3¢ to $4.115oz. 
Wednesday, October 30, 1991 

fORECAST: Today, cloudy and 
much cooler with an 80 percent chance of rain. Highs in the upper 50s. Cloudy and cool Thursday. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  61  54  
Atlanta  69  56  
Berlin  45  32  
Boston  53  36  
Chicago  70  50  
Dallas-Ft.Worth  64  44  
Denver  30  07  
Detro~  63  51  
Honolulu  86  72  
Houston  84  63  
Indianapolis  69  52  
London  59  50  
Los Angeles  68  54  
Madrid  81  46  
Miam Beach  84  72  
New Orleans  83  68  
New York  54  40  
Paris  58  48  
Philadelphia  58  42  
Rome  eo  48  
St. Louis  72  54  
San Francisco  65  55  
Seattle  47  32  
South Bend  65  56  
Tdlyo  68  56  
Washington, D.C.  58  44  

November that he wouldn't seek re-election after a record three terms as mayor. Daoud faces a 41-count federal grand jury indictment charging that he "conducted the affairs of the city government of Miami Beach through a pattern of racketeering activity." U.S. Attorney Dexter Lehtinen said. Daoud will surrender Wednesday at FBI headquarters in Miami, and after ar­raignment before a U.S. magistrate, will be released on a $500,000 surety bond, Lehtinen said. If convicted on all counts, Daoud could be sentenced to up to 528 years in prison and fined up to $12.5 million. 
INDIANA 

NO §raduate works for Tim Roemer 

• 
Pax Christi -NO will hold its usual weekly meeting tonight and for the remainder of the semester in the Cen­ter for Social Concerns Chapel at 8:30 p.m. All are invited to attend. 

• 
An effective mail campaign will be the topic for a workshop this evening at 6:30 p.m. in the Hayes Healy Auditorium. Sponsored by Career and Placement Ser­vices. 

• 
Free comedy improv show will be presented by Notre Dame's Comedy Troupe Irish Accent in Theodore's tonight at 9:00. If you like comedy then show up because most of the show relies on audience participation. Come join the fun. 

• 
Arts and Letters business society will have an informational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in room 220 Hayes-Healy. All liberal arts majors are encouraged to attend. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On October 30 

• 
In 1902: A volcanic eruption ravaged the main coffee region in Guatemala. 

•In 
1914: The United States announced a $10 million war loan to France. 

• 
In 1944: A ballet called "Appalachian Spring," celebrating the pioneer spirit debuted in New York. 

• 
In 1956: Anti-Soviet protests in Hungary turned into a full­scale war. Hungarian students, intelectuals, office workers and soldiers demanded the withdrawal of Soviet troops from the country. 


.r--------~------~------------------------------------------------------------------~ --­
Wednesday, October 30, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Mize recalls influential situations 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Love of interaction, hearing ntJW p11rspectives, and exploring these new perspectives are the forees that have guided Sandra Yoeum Mize, assistant professor of r11ligious studies at Saint Mary's College, in teaehing and in overall self-development, Mize said Tuesday. 
As part of Saint Mary's Life of th11 Mind lecture series, she told her audience that she was amazed at the "selectivity of (her) memories" when attempt­ing to summarize her intellec­tual growth. 
Most of the memories that "outsiders" would view as in­signifieant were the ones "that stood out most in my mind," statPd Mize. 
Born in Carrol, Iowa to a working-class family, her edu­cation was influenced by a number of significant events throughout her childhood. 
She said she did not perform very well her first few years of school and could not relate very well to "See Dick, see Dick run." 
"I thought these people lead very curious lives," she ex­plained. 
Two events during fourth grade influenced her thinking. 
"I learned to write in ink-foun­tain pen ink," said Mize. It be­gan my "commitment to de­tails." 
The assassination of John F. Kennedy also plays a part of her memory of that year. 
"I recall the speaker at the front of the room," said Mize. The announcement that the president and the governor of Texas had been shot shocked her. "I began to think what president?," said Mize. "I though it was the president of a company, it couldn't be the President of the United States." 
This event began the "shattering of a world," said Mize. I began to realize that the "pieces do not always fit together." 
In the eighth grade she began to see countless television re­ports regarding the civil rights movement. "My mother could not believe that blacks and whites would march together," said Mize. 
"There were new worlds be­ing forged around me," she said. 
She began her undergraduate studies at the University of Ok­lahoma on a "women in physics" scholarship. 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Business Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Nov. 1 to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 
WHAT IF YOU  
DON'T GO  
INTO THE  
SCHOOL OF  
YOUR CHOICE?  
Sure. there are other  
schools. But why settle?  
Kaplan prep courses help  
students raise their scores  
and their chances of  
being admitted into their  
first· choice schools. Fact  
is. noone has helped  
students score higher'  
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED.  
PLEASE RESERVE YOUR  
PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.  

"No one (in physics) shared my wonder," she said. "I couldn't relate to the guys in the basement of the physics building trying to find absolute zero." 
"In my sophomore year I gave up my scholarship, and began searching for something new," stated Mize. Her involvement in the campus parish brought a new "awareness and enthusi­asm." The University of Okla­homa had no religious studies department, so Mize designed her own major. 
"I used the Notre Dame course book ironically," said Mize, "I handed in a proposal with my rational for my choice of courses and graduated with a degree in 'Catholic studies."' 
She spent two years as a youth minister in Oklahoma City where "I learned my limits and that theory and practice are interrelated," said Mize. 
She did her post-graduate studies at Marquette University, and became interested in American religious studies. "Things started to make sense." 
Mize's work has led her to Saint Mary's four years ago, where she continues to work and study feminist theology and diversity within the Catholic community. 


Halloween party to raise funds for Formal 
Special to The Observer Formal, a Halloween party at will play, and door prizes will 
senior bar, will be Thursday. be awarded. The first 100 stu­
dents will receive free cups, 
The first fundraiser to raise The Halloween party will be and there will be a costume 
money for the Notre held from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. contest. A $2 donation toward 
Dame/Saint Mary's Senior Campus band "The Generirc" the Senior Formal fund may be 

1Qi1;JOO(M)g(l~XJOI;M)OO~XJQ(~000CM)OOOI~CX~~OI)CPaid at the door. 

$1 off Any Burger Combo 
with Coupon Live Bands Coming Nov lsi Thur • Sun MoUy Hatchel 
IFtJ>S) ~ ef' Halloween 
Specials every I\ -Costume Party
.,. 'lB~....-­
nite on food Oct 31st 
1516 N. Ironwood
and beverage Cash Prizes 
$1 off Any Burger Combo $1 off 
Owned and _Operated by ND Alumni 
Senior Formal prices are de­termined by the success of fundraisers throughout the year. The budget for the week­end starts at zero, and any money generated reduces the cost to the student. The Senior Formal Committee hopes to raise $20,000 to $25,000 to de­fray the formal cost. 
Other fundraisers planned in­clude the sale of Sesquicenten­nial posters, "150 Years Under 
Dome." The posters are be­
sold in all residence halls and at the Information desk in LaFortune Student Center. The committee also plans to sell 
~il"..ii~fttiftftl~ttl~M~M~~ifti~ftl~M~M~~ifti~~ Sesquicentennial t-shirts. 



page 4 The Observer 

Let the food begin 

Patricia O'Hara, director of Student Affairs cuts the ribbon at the opening ceremonies of Badin food sales yesterday with (lett to right) Gina DiRenzo and Stephanie Case, directors of food sales, and Margaret Tortorella and Megan Sullivan, dorm co-presidents. Badin's food sales just underwent renovations. 
-------------------------~-----------------.. 
Wednesday, October 30, 1991 

Histories of landmarks will go on sale Friday 
Special to The Observer 
Companion books tracing the histories of the University of Notre Dame's most cherished landmarks -Sacred Heart Church and the golden-domed Main Building -have been made available as part of the University's observance of its Sesquicentennial. 
Written by Thomas Schlereth, professor of American studies at Notre Dame, "A Spire of Faith" and "A Dome of Learn­ing" go on sale Friday, Nov. 1. Priced at $10 a piece, the books will be available at the campus bookstore, through the Notre Dame Alumni Association and by mail order. 
"A Spire of Faith" chronicles the history, art and artifacts of Sacred Heart Church in 78 pages that include 121 pho­tographs, 51 in color. 
The church, built over a 15­year period beginning in 1870, includes wall and ceiling murals by Italian artist Luigi Gregori, one-of-a-kind French stained glass windows, and the massive Ivan Mestrovic sculpture Pieta. 
In "A Dome of Learning," Schlereth examines the educa­tional, cultural and social his­tory of the 113-year-old main building. Highlighted by 96 photos, 18 in color, the book also offers a guide to Gregori's Columbus murals on the second floor of the building. 

"Considering them together," Schlereth writes, "we have two ancient architectural icons, a spire and a dome, each repre­senting more dramatically than any other of the University's buildings the institutions his­torical aspiration to expand knowledge and deepen belief." 
Schlereth, a 1963 graduate, has been a member of the Uni­versity's faculty since 1972. He is a the author of 14 books, including "Victorian America: Transformations in Everyday Life, 1876-1915," published this year by Harper Collins Publishers. A fourth printing of his widely read profile "The University of Notre Dame: A Portrait of its History and campus" was also released this year. 
"A Spire of Faith" and "A Dome of Learning" were de­signed by Paul Wieber, assistant director of publications and graphic services at Notre Dame, and edited by Linda Diltz, editor of Notre Dame Report. 


Board 
continued from page 1 
Graduate education is an­other continuing priority, and he plans to add to available re­sources, through "building on the strength of the undergrad­uate program we have," he said. 
When first elected, Malloy said, he wondered if he would 
Aid 
continued from page 1 
and his government have of­fered to relinquish power but not until an alternative admin­istration is established. 
The fractured Muslim resis­tance struggled Tuesday to sal­vage plans to send a delegation 



NIGHT 
THE 
\ 
,\ 
\ 
be able to continue living in a residence hall, and teaching Freshman Seminar. 
"There were bets I wouldn't do it," he said, but the ar­rangement worked out, and Malloy said he enjoys it. 
The Board of Trustees also elected Andrew McKenna, of Winnetka, Illinois, chairman of Notre Dame's trustees. 
McKenna, a Notre Dame graduate who has served as vice chairman of the Board of 
to meet with Soviet officials in Moscow to bring a peaceful end to the conflict. 
Mojaddidi told reporters that unless rebel leaders come up with an alternative, their chance of being part of a peace agreement will be lost. 
The guerrillas plan to leave for Moscow Sunday. It would be the first trip to the Soviet Union. 
Resistance hard-liners are waffiing on in the Trustees since 1986, said he in­tends to "maintain the quality of what Notre Dame is today." 

President and chief executive officer of Schwarz Paper Com­pany, a director of the Chicago Bears, Chicago Cubs, Aon Cor­poration and other companies, McKenna joked that he is "looking for suggestions" on how to fit the responsibilities of the new position into his sched­ule. 
conference. Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif last week warned the guerrillas not to sabotage the Moscow meet­ing and squander their chance for peace. 

917 W. McKinley, Mishawaka Novelties
Cards 

.mJ(Across from Town & Country) Party supplies 
Gifts 
~-=~=--(219) 256-9075 

10% Student Account 
Store Hours 
Not valid
Mon -Wed 9 -5:30 

l:!mll1 with any
Thurs -Fri 9-8:00 

other coupon
Sat 9-2:00 

A Unique Consulting Firm 
Hewitt Associates 
is visiting the University ofNotre Dame 
We will conduct on-campus interviews tomorrow and Friday. We will return to campus in February. 
Hewitt Associates is an International firm of consultants and actuaries specializing in the design, fmancing, communication. and administration of employee benefit and compensation programs. We are included in the publications The 100 B~st Companies to Work for in America and The Best Compamcs for Women. 
We are interested in students with the following majors: 
Accounting Computer Applications Economics Finance Management 
with MIS Concentration Mathematics Mathematics 
with Computer Concentration 
We look for people who are adaptable, creative, analytical .. and intelligent: people who work well together. Our challenge ts to identifY and develop those people who can respond to thr opportunities of today and tomorrow. 


Hewitt Associates 
Llncolnshire. IL • Santa Ana, CA • Walnut Creek. CA Rowayton. CT • Boston, MA • Bedminster. NJ Atlanta GA • Las Collnas. TX • The Woodlands. TX 
An equal opportunity employer m(f 
Wednesday, October 30, 1991 
The Observer 


Debate currently underway in Senate over application of civil rights bill 
WASIIINGTON (API -A ma­jor civil rights bill remained stalled in the Senate on Tues­day as leaders debated ways of applying job protection to the Sfmate's own employees and other government workers. 
With the main issues already settled, the Senate faced a series of amendments that again forced a delay in a long­awaited final vote on the com­promise fashioned last week by President Bush and leaders of both parties. 
Sen. Don Nickles, H-Okla., of­fered an amfmdment that would cover congressional employees under not only the civil rights bill but the Occupational Safety and Jlealth Act and labor laws authorizing unions, collective bargaining and overtime pay. 
"I think Congress needs to learn what it's like to be under thnse laws," Nickles said. 
Sentiment was running high for finding some way to cover 
Senate employees with the pro­
tections guaranteed by the civil 
rights bill. 
But sponsors of the bill ar­gued that the Nickles amend­ment would kill chances for the overall legislation. They also said the plan would violate the Constitution's separation of powers provisions by subjecting the legislative branch to en­forcement by the judicial or ex­ecutive branch. 
"It is unthinkable, and would have been to the Founding Fa­thers, that an executive branch agency such as the Department of Labor or National Labor Re­lations Board, would have jurisdiction over a member of Congress," said Sen. Warren Hudman, H-N.H. 
"We are not your local manu­facturer," Hudman said. "We should be subject to the same laws, but hardly the same en­forcement." 
"This is the most blatantly, 

flagrantly, obviously unconsti­
tutional proposal I've seen 
since I've been in the Senate," 
said Majority Leader George 
Mitchell, D-Me. 
A rival amendment, worked out in negotiations between Mitchell and Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, would also provide for coverage of Senate employees but with modified enforcement procedures, in­cluding appeal to the U.S. Cir­cuit Court of Appeals for a hearing by a judge. It would ex­tend the rights bill to cover White House staff and other political appointees. 
Differences over applying the laws to Congress cut across party lines. 
The issue has arisen before but has resurfaced as a result of sexual harassment charges surrounding the confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. Bush pro­vided fresh fuel for the debate 
,.....----------------------, last week in a speech attacking 
Attention Off-Campus Students! Anyone interested in helping plan our Off-Campus Formal, or if you have any ideas or suggestions, please call Brian or Jim @ 289-6546 
Anyone interested in helping build the 
' 

Off-Campus Float for Homecoming please call Trevor @ 289-6546 
Congress for exempting itself from many of the laws it im­poses on the rest of the country. 
Mitchell said the Nickles plan was intended "to kill the civil rights bill." 
The amendment worked out by Mitchell and Grassley would set up a Senate Office of Fair Employment Practices to make decisions on complaints by Se­
nate employees. Its members would be independent of the senate. By providing appeals directly to the Court of Appeals, the procedures would deny Senate employees the right to a trial before a jury, a right that pri­vate business employees would have under the bill. 
page 5 


Lyons freshmen (left to right) Renee Reymond, Marisa Traina and Michele Potter display their jack-o-lantern masterpieces and their Halloween spirit yesterday afternoon. 
The University of Notre Dame Warmly Welcomes 
Michael P. Esposito, Jr. 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE 
Chase Manhattan Bank 
AND ALUMNUS OF 
The University Of Notre Dame 
Mr. Esposito is hosting a reception onOctober 30, at the University Club, Upper Level, from 7 to 9 p.m., and warmly extends an invitation to all students and faculty who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities in finance at Chase. 
Chase Manhattan Bank 
page 6 
US embassy target of Arab rocket fire 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) ­Arab radicals opposed to the Mideast peace conference fired a rocket at the U.S. embassy compound in east Beirut on Tuesday. 
The missile struck a wall but caused no injuries or serious damage to the building in the Christian suburb of Aukur, said Defense Minister Michel Murr. 
An anonymous caller to a Western news agency later claimed responsibility on behalf of the Arab Revolutionary Bri­gades, a previously unknown group. 
The caller said the rocket was "a demonstration of rejection of the sellout by Arab regimes of the Palestinian cause at the Madrid conference." 
Iranian and Arab radicals have promised to attack targets of the United States and others involved in Wednesday's conference, which they oppose because it could lead to Arab recognition for Israel. 
Lebanese army troops and 
police threw a cordon around 
the embassy minutes after the 
blast and turned away re­
porters and photographers, 
said Associated Press techni­
cian Elie Ghattas, who lives 
about 100 yards from the com­
pound. 
No embassy officials were 
available for comment. Ambas­
sador Ryan Crocker was in 
Madrid with the U.S. delegation 
sponsoring the peace confer­
ence. 
All U.S. Embassy functions 
were moved to the building in 
east Beirut after the embassy 
compound in Muslim west 
Beirut was destroyed in two 
truckbomb explosions in 1983 
and 1984. 
The suicide attacks by the Is­lamic Jihad organization left 7 4 people dead, including 21 Americans, and 196 wounded. 
Islamic Jihad is one of the 
Shiite Muslim factions holding 
kidnapped Western hostages in 
Lebanon. The groups are be­
lieved to be under the loose 
control of Hezbollah, or Party 
of God. 
Hezbollah guerrillas earlier Tuesday detonated a roadside bomb near the village of Aramta, on the northern edge of Israel's self-proclaimed se­curity zone in southern Le­banon, killing three Israeli sol­diers. 
Hezbollah leader Abbas Mu­sawi proclaimed a day of mourning Wednesday to mark the opening of the peace talks, which he denounced as an ef­fort by Israel to buy time to "bring in more Jewish immi­grants and create more settle­ments in occupied territories." 
If you see news happening Call us at 239-5303 and let us know. 
The Observer 
Peace 
continued from page 1 

During the meeting, Israeli settlers entered the hotel, say­ing their West Bank community was founded at the site where Palestinian gunmen Monday killed two Israelis. 
As Baker left, a pro-Israeli activist from New York, Rabbi Avi Weiss, shouted, "Don't stab Israel in the back." Replied Baker, "Don't worry about that." 
Palestine Liberation Organi­zation chief Vasser Arafat also offered good wishes for the talks. The PLO was officially excluded from the talks be­cause Israel brands it a terror group. 
In a videotape released in Tunis, site of PLO headquar­ters, Arafat said "extremist" Palestinian groups could threaten the gathering's chances for success, but ex­pressed broad support for the Palestinian delegation. 
In another sign of the will to make peace, Israeli soldiers in the occupied Gaza Strip were astonished when Palestinians demonstrating for peace prof-
The Observer 


fered olive branches and shook their hands. 
The conference will be the first to include all of Israel's Arab neighbors, including the Palestinians and Syria, in di­
rect, formal negotiations with the Jewish state. Although the PLO was excluded at Israel's insistence, a PLO official said an observer delegation would be in Madrid. 


Finally, going to college can save you some money. 
Bet you never thought you'd hear that. But just by being a student, you can get special prices on IBM PS/2®s-computers that will help you through school, 
and long after you get out. IBM offers a variety of PS/2 Selected Academic Solution* models to choose from. And 
with an IBM PS/2 Loan for Learning, 
you can own one for as little as $30 a month and take up to five 
years to pay. Buy now and you'll get a special Bonus Packt worth 
over $1,000 in savings on air travel, phone calls, software and more. 
So while the price of college keeps going up, at least the price of 
succeeding is on its way down. Visit your campus outlet to find out 
how to make a PS/2 click for you. 
VISIT THE UNIVERSI1Y OF NOTRE DAME COMPUTER EXPO 1991 ON NOV. 1, 2 OR 3
--

-TO flND OUT HOW TO MAKE
-
AN IBM PS/2 CUCK FOR YOU. 
------® 
-~-·­
•This offer is available to nonprofit higher educatiOn 1nst1tut1ons, their students, faculty and staff, as well as to nonproht K-121nslltullons, the1r faculty and staff.These IBM Selected AcademiC SolutionS are available through partiCipating campus outlets, IBM Auttionzed PC Dealers certified to remarket Selected Academic Solutions or IBM 1BOO 222-7257. Pnces quoted do not include sales tax, handling andfor pmcess1ng charges Check w1th your campus outlet regardii1Q these charges. Orders are subject to ava1lab1hty. Prices are subject to change and IBM may withdraw the offer at any lime w1thoul notiCe ••PS/2 Loan for Learmng lets you borrow $1,500-$8,000. Monthly payment 1s based upon 100% financ1ng repa1d 1n 60 monthly installments and 1ncludes the 1% guarantee fee. The 1nterest rate 1s variable, subject to change each month Amount hnanced $1,699 (months 1-12, $30; months 13·36, $30, months 37-60. $48.92). APR 10.386% tThe Bonus Pack expires December 31, 1991. IBM and PS/2 are reg1stered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. ©1991 IBM Corp 
Wednesday, October 30, 1991 
It will be the first broadly based peace conference since 1973, when Egypt, Jordan and Israel attended a U.N.-spon­sored meeting in Geneva. The conference adjourned after one day. 
Setting the stage for the start of talks, the Palestinians sig­naled willingness to be flexible on a key issue. Faisal Husseini, leader of a group of advisers accompanying the Palestinian delegation, said the Palestini­ans hoped to secure an agree­ment for autonomy leading to an independent Palestinian state that would later join in a confederation with Jordan. 
Although Israel rejects the idea of an independent Pales­tinian state, it agrees to a form of Palestinian confederation with Jordan. The Palestinians are participating in the Madrid conference in a joint delegation with Jordan. 
On the Israeli side, there was a hint that Shamir -who has steadfastly refused to trade land for peace -might be will­ing to talk about the idea of territorial concessions. 
"We believe and are con­vinced it belongs to us since thousands of years," he told NBC-TV on Monday. "Maybe the Palestinians believe the same. Then let us negotiate how to settle it, how to find a way to avoid war." 
-

--------------~~----------------------~-----------­
Wednesday, October 30, 1991 
Gay rights debate split over recent court ruling 
SAN FHANCISCO (AP) -Op­posing sides in the debate over a vetoml bill to han job discrim­ination against homosexuals split Tuesday over the meaning of a eourt ruling that said state laws already forbid sueh bias. 
Opponents of the bill said the statn appeals court ruling Monday eonfirmed what Gov. Pete Wilson said in vetoing it: It was redundant and unneces­sary. 
"The eourt decision is entirely rnasonable. And I think it does prove the point that adequate safeguards exist in current law," said state Assemblyman Tom McClintock. H-Camarillo. 
Bill supporters, while welcoming the dneision, said it didn't go far enough to proteet IHlrnosexuals. 
"It would be niee to think that this ruling fills the gap (the bill) was designed to plug, and that wn could say with some comfort that diserirnination based on sexual orientation is illegal in California now," said American Civil Libnrties Union lawyer Matt Coles. "But I think we're not quite there yet." 
The 1st District Court of Ap­peal rulnd 3-0 in a lawsuit filed by three job applicants at a Target Stores outlet over a psychological screening test. 
The court extended to em­ployees of private businesses a 1979 state Supreme Court rul­ing barring discrimination by government agencies or public utilities against openly gay em­ployees as a violation of the right to engage in political ac­tivity without employer inter­ference. 
The "struggle of the homo­sexual community for equal rights, particularly in the field of employment, must be recog­nized as a political activity," Justice Timothy Reardon wrote. 
The justices also gave broad protection to applicants against personal questions in tests, including inquiries about sexual orientation and religion. 
Among the 704 true-false questions were: "I am very strongly attracted by members of my own sex," and "I believe in the second coming of Christ." 
Target was temporarily barred from using tests that asked such questions. The dis­count department store chain, owned by Dayton-Hudson Corp., said it would appeal. 

Day Editor needed at SMC Observer Office Must be available Mon., Wed., and Fri. afternoons Contact Jennifer Haybrych 284-4426 

The Observer page 7 
The Observer/John Rock 
Shiny new coat 
Ed Lawrence works up high yesterday repainting LaFortune, getting it ready for the long winter ahead. 
Student aid bill may be rejected 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A Bush administration education official warned Tuesday that any student aid bill aimed at bypassing banks and providing direct loans would most likely result in a veto if it reached the president's desk. 
Deputy Education Secretary David Kearns told the Senate Committee on Labor and Hu­man Resources the administra­tion is concerned that any such measure would run the risk of a new wave of defaults. 
His comments came at a hearing on a General Account­ing Office study showing it would be possible to save $1 billion a year in payments to banks and interest subsidies by moving to a system of direct loans. 
"President Bush's senior ad­visers will recommend that he veto any bill to reauthorize the Higher Education Act that in­cludes either new entitlements or a direct loan program." Kearns said. 
Kearns referred in specific to a proposal by Sens. Paul Simon, D-111., and Dave Durenberger, R-Minn.• to replace the pri­vately funded Guaranteed Stu­dent Loan Program with direct loans and more aid to middle income students. 
The bill is being offered as an amendment to the reauthoriza­tion of the Higher Education Act, which comes up for re­newal every five years. The full committee is scheduled to begin work on the act on Wednesday. 
The senators said about $2.7 billion could be saved by by­passing the banks and using the Internal Revenue Service as the collection agency. 
"We do not support the cre­ation of new entitlement pro­grams, and we are convinced that replacing the GSL pro­grams with a direct loan struc­ture -an idea evidently now seen as a panacea by some in Congress -is a far too risky and uncertain proposal to adopt at this time," said Kearns. 
Kearns questioned claims that huge savings would result and added that there was little proof that using the IRS to col­lect back payments would elim­inate the problem of defaults. Currently, defaults are esti­mated at $3.8 billion. 
Kearns said many schools would shoulder new adminis­trative burdens, placing too much responsibility for the con­trol over federal funds with schools that have little or no experience in originating loans. 
Simon said, "The fundamen­tal question comes back to, 'Are we just going to tinker or are we really going to expand opportunities for Americans."' He urged Kearns to "hold off on this talk of veto. We haven't written everything in stone. Let's see if we can get some­thing worked out." 
ARTS AND LETTERS MAJORS!!! 
Look at job opportunities! Listen to company representatives talk about your possibilities! . Learn why liberal arts majors are valuable to busm~ses! 
WHO: Arts & Letters Business Society WHEN: Wednesday, October 30, 7pm WHERE: room 220 Hayes-Healy Why? Because everybody needs a job! 
------------~------------------------..------------.... 
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, October 30, 1991 

Mon 28th Scary Snack Break 8·1 0 Haggar Game Room Come watch your favorite halloween specials & carve a pumpkin. With treats of course! 
Tue 29th Emmy Award Winning Storyteller Jim May at Club Tuesday 
ed 30th International Party 7:30-9:30 Haggar College Center. Food & entertainment from all over the world 
hurs 31st Costume Contest during dinner. Cash prizes for winners in several categories. 
Fri Nov 1 Come watch Saint Mary•s float in the 
• 

Notre Dame Homecoming Parade. off is from Goodwill Plaza at 

Wednesday, October 30, 1991 The Observer page 9 
Actress Rebecca Schaeffer murdered by obsessed fan 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Ob­which failed to provide the 
1

sessed fan Robert Bardo was treatment he needed." convicted Tuesday of first de­Deputy District Attorney 1 1gree murder and the special Marcia Clark said Bardo's true 
1

circumstance of lying in wait in motivation was to gain fame as 
1

the 1989 slaying of "My Sister a celebrity killer. 
i 1 

Sam" actress Rebecca Schaef­"A normal person does not fer. stalk and murder an actress," 
Superior Court Judge Dino Clark said. "But this was less Fulgoni, who heard the case than extreme psychosis," she without a jury, rejected the de­said. 1 fense argument that Bardo was She attacked the testimony of 1 
1

too mentally ill to premeditate a psychiatrist who concluded 
1

murder. that Bardo had severe mental illness and cited letters written 
The judge scheduled sentenc­by Bardo that showed a grow­~ ing for Nov. 22. The special cir­ing hatred for the actress and a , cumstance conviction carries a plan to kill her. mandatory life sentence with­Schaeffer, 21, a rising star out parole. with a co-starring role in the 
As Bardo was led out of the TV show "My Sister Sam," was ~ courtroom, Schaeffer's mother, shot to death on July 18, 1989, Dana Schaeffer, raced up to the as she answered a ring at her 
The Observer/John Rock 

railing and shouted: "Have a front door. Sing out strong nice life. Have a good time in The day after the shooting, ~ jail!" Bardo, 21, was arrested as he ,
The Glee Club prepares for parent's weekend at a rehearsal yesterday in Crowley Hall. They practice 
"Rebecca is never going to ran on a freeway ramp in his ,
every Monday through Thursday from 4:45 to 6 p.m. 
come back," Mrs. Schaeffer hometown of Tucson, Ariz. , said. "Given that, I'm satisfied Before trial began, the prose­, 
.,

that justice is going to be cution agreed not to seek the
Navy alienates group accused of abuse 
served." She then burst into death penalty and Bardo tears. agreed to waive trial by jury.
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Navy symposium, which is an annual Ludwig said in his letter ad­
The judge said the evidence Dr. Park Elliott Dietz, a psy­Secretary Lawrence Garrett gathering for active-duty and dressed to aviation comman­showed the defendant planned chiatrist who has studiedsaid Tuesday the Navy was retired Navy pilots and others ders throughout the Navy that the killing for a long time and celebrity assailants, said Bardocutting all ties to a naval avia­who support carrier-based although the session was the lay in wait for Schaeffer as she told him during interviewstion association whose recent naval aviation. "biggest and most successful answered the door at her about the influence of the U2symposium in Las Vegas was Garrett was responding to an Tailhook we have ever had," he apartment. song "Exit" from "The Joshua ,rnportndly marred by incidents Oct. 11 letter written by the deeply regretted "the blatant 
Bardo's lawyer, Deputy Public Tree" album. 1
of sexual abuse of women. Tailhook president, Navy Capt. and total disregard of individual Defender Stephen Galindo, ar­The song was played in court
In a letter to the president of Ludwig, in which Ludwig said rights." 1 
.,

gued his client was guilty of and Bardo, who had sat glumtlw Tailhook Association, Gar­he had received five reports of The Navy said before releas­nothing more than second-de­and motionless through most of 1
rt~ tt ex presscd "absoI u te women being sexually molested ing Garrett's letter to Ludwig ,
gree murder because he was the trial, suddenly sprang to
outrage" at the "personal and verbally and physically that its Naval Investigative Ser­too mentally ill to have life. He grinned, bobbed up and 1abuses, behavioral excesses abused. vice was looking into the al­premeditated Schaeffer's down to the music, pounded his
and quite possibly criminal leged incidents. 
killing. knee as if it was a drum andconduct" by unidentified indi­Ludwig cited one incident in Garrett, in his letter, noted "Rebecca Schaeffer is a victim mouthed words to the song, in­
viduals at the meeting last which one "underage young that he had sent a message to 
in the true sense of the word," cluding references to a gun.
month. lady" had her clothing removed every command in the Navy last Galindo said. But, he added, Dietz said he concluded Bardo Garrett and tlw Navy's top by a "gauntlet" of men attend­April stating that he would en­"Robert Bardo is also a victim was "a very sick young man"uniformed officer, Adm. frank ing the symposium at the Las force a policy of "zero tolerance -a victim of parental neglect and had been schizophrenicKelso, attended the Tailhook Vegas Hilton hotel. of sexual harassment." 
and a mental health s stem since childhood. 
, 
,
,

WIN FREE PIZZA! 
, 
...

ORDER THIS WEEK AND 
, 
,

YOU'RE REGISTERED TO WIN A 
, 
...

FREE PIZZA EVERYDAY FOR THE REST OF THE SEMESTER! THE SIZE YOU ORDER IS THE SIZE PIZZA YOU MAY WIN. 
r---------------,
I 16" PARTY SIZE I 
I I 
I ONE TOPPING PIZZA I 
I I 
I I lit $6.99 I I 
Offer expires 12/31191. Valid at participating stores only. I Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valid with any I1 other offer. Limlled delivery area to ensure safe driving. 1
r--------------, 
I 14" LARGE I : ONE TOPPING PIZZA :
! II. $5.99 ! 
Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participating stores only. 1I Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valid with any L other offer. Limlled delivery area to ensure safe driving. -:
NOBODY 
r-------------­
1 12'' MEDIUM 
1

KNOWS 
: ONE TOPPING PIZZA :
LIKE 

: em® $4.99 :
®DOMINO'S.m 
I Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participatin_g stores only. II Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not vahd with any IHowYou Uke Pizza At Home. L other offer. Limlled delivery area to ensure safe driving. .J 



r 
r 
r 
Viewpoint
r 
Page 10 Wednesday, October 30, 1991 


l.tM'\eP;~ In 01 \?i~~ gray Oc~ ~ J ~o.\f..ff,Ci"') he fbw-~k~cl~ -~ ().~\~. ~ c.\f'~V\\a-\\C.. 
lore ~ ctve "loo~Nh t,t~ 7-hApu.llt"y1''"_uv""""L...l"":;• ~>f\b'>ih(" 0.~ fUf.\\ty~'"\.o!:~;Jil 
1\.e':e die. .::rl'1 cJ~';. ·n..e,r re;)\ ~c.<.re Q~~~,e 1 ~'v\, Th~S 'J ~1\<l. ~\:er, ') 

r· 
r 
r 
"" 
r"" 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
i 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
,. 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill 
Managing Editor Lisa Eaton 

News Editor •.............•••.....• Monica Yant Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett 
Business Manager Gilbert Gomez 
Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
-_______:. 
~-­
c:::--·----~ 
Paige's critics cannot recognize good writing 
Weekend Wheels should be funded 
Dear Editor: a further consideration of those 
As an individual who has dealt who do not drink and drive directly with the issue of drink-must be addressed. ing and driving through past When we operate an automo­experiences in the emergency bile, knowing full well that peo­medical services and high ple are going to make choices school SADD activities, I feel independent of the concern for that one issue was overlooked others, by offering a service to in the decision not to fund those impaired individuals, we Weekend Wheels. not only provide them a safe 
Although I do agree unequivo-return to campus, but also in­cally with Mr. Kirk that sure that there is one less in­"students need to take the ini-toxicated driver on the road. tiative" by taking taxis and By no means am I suggesting the only intoxicated drivers on the road. I am, however, asking the administration to assume its usual parental character by considering to at least con­tribute to the operation of Weekend Wheels. 
Wouldn't we all feel better knowing that we had done our part to save the lives of the members of our Notre Dame community. 
Ryan Trzaskowski Stanford Hall 

~;~~n~o~t~to~d~ri~n;k;a~n~d~d~ri;v~e~, ~th"a~t~N~o~trmeiDmamm~e~s"turrdme~n~t~smar~e~~r'~~-·--~·-~~-~_:__
~_-~o~c~~~:.~"~·!1!9!9!1~ 

Cartoon about Thomas racist, slanderous 
Dear Editor: 
How could Douglas T. Lucas possibly find fault with Paige Smoron's Accent columns (The Observer, Oct. 17). l, for one, am hard pressed to think of any other Observer writer who comes even remotely close to the writing ability she demon­strates every third Wednesday and in countless Inside Columns. 
As it happens, Paige had an Inside Column the same day that Mr. Lucas' seething rant was published, which clearly demonstrates the talents she possesses, and does not contain the word "condom" once, in response to all those critics who see her as a one-joke writer. 
The way in which she describes photographs makes the pictures come alive in the reader's mind, so that as I read the column, I can practically see her friend Chris holding that beer in her hand, and Steph with all her dates, includ­ing the "tall boy in a navy 
DOONESBURV  
aJOOI?Y, z'veAt­ JOANI£3,  
«JAYs fOUNO Y()J  JOAN/8,  
OFFtN51V&, BUT  UGI.fTW  
I HAV& 7V 54Y,  UP/  

YOU'V& JU5T 70PFW... 
\

' 
blazer and a really nice paisley tie, holding a red rose" that she really liked. It was as if I was there with her, experiencing the moment for myself. 
I am not in any way affiliated with the Paige Smoron Fan Club, though I am sorely tempted to start my own in ac­knowledgment of her stature. Is it snobbery to speak the truth, to recognize beauty as a writer and as a human being when one is confronted by such beauty? How could it be so? 
Maybe she isn't a goddess (though she ought, by right, to at least by recognized as a demi-goddess), but at the University of Our Lady, there is one lady who stands head and shoulders above the rest, and that lady is Paige Smoron. Keep those tri-weekly columns coming, and pay no heed to the Philistines who fail to see the grace in your presence. 
Ron Hogan Keenan Hall Oct. 18, 1991 

Dear Editor: 
The cartoon that appeared on the editorial page on Friday, Oct. 19, showing a grinning Clarence Thomas with his hand on the knee of Sandra Day O'Connor, can only be described as outrageous. In addition to insulting Judge Thomas, the crude caricature is a distressing example of the insidious stereotyping of black male that he decried in his testimony be­fore the Senate judiciary committee. 
To put my opinion in perspec­tive, let me add that I think that President Bush was wrong in nominating Clarence Thomas and the Senate in confirming him. I found Professor Hill's testimony very credible, and her corroborating witnesses were much more convincing than those on the other side. 
I also agree with Congressman Lewis and the other members of the black Congressional Caucus that Judge Thomas' talk of lynching and his attempt to portray the hearings as a racial attack were an insult to many victims of racism and to those who gave and suffered so much for· the cause of civil rights in this country. 
Nevertheless, I thought the cartoon was racist, slanderous and disgusting. One can only wonder at the mentality of the cartoonist who drew it and the editors who printed it. 
Alan Howard Professor Dept. of Mathematics Oct. 18, 1991 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WAI~!THW:5 
ANAU8NHAIR 
IN MY SOUP/ 
HA,HA,HA! 
\ 

'I don't think there's any point in being Irish if you don't know that the world is going to break your heart eventually.' 
Daniel Patrick Moynihan after Kennedy assasination 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND.IN 46556 

Viewpoint
Wednesday, October 30, 1991 Page 11 
er Bag 
that you just can't play that way 
and not be a future All­
American, or possibly a first 

:::::[[[lll:llll::l:llll::::::::::l:l::::::::::::::::::~iiiiiijjjjjji''
.......................
round draft pick. And who's to ...................... say? ENBERG -Oh my! I remember that now. Oh my! Oh my! VITALE -That's right, baby! He's definitely not on the All­Twinkie Team. That's for sure, baby! WALSH -Well, I have a candi­date for my All-Galaxy Team. ENBEHG -It reminds me of what former coach John Madden once said within a three second time span, "Anthn
Hncently, while sitting in the (X, X, scribble) hblck dwnan (0, Morris Inn at 7:30 A.M., I over­scribble, 0, X, arrow) hlfln frlward a spirited conversation tehdwn."
betwnen Dick Vitale, Bill Walsh, 
Daaame is WALSH -Well, on the other VITALE -That's my A.T.L., air Dick Enberg, and a guy with a home on NBC." I think we can hand, you could be Gerry Faust, time line, baby. Anybody should ­
TRANSLATION -And then hebag over his head. It was diffi­compare Taylor to anyone who in which case we could not know that. 

blocked down on the entire leftcult to determine whether they ever did anything at Noootre compare you with Taylor. After WALSH -Well, I'd still like tohalf of the line which resulted in 

had arranged for an early 
Daaame. all, nobody could ever figure out show my appreciation with thata touchdown.
breakfast meeting or were 
WALSH -That's right, Dick. why you called your plays bottle of rum. 
WALSH -No question about it.

completing a sports all-nighter. 
VITALE -Thank you, baby! whenever you did. You would VITALE -Are you kidding me,We made a great call that day,Wn all know this type of ESPN WALSH -I wasn't talking to you. need twelve yards; you'd run a baby? Then it's definitely partyand this Aaron Taylor. from my
night. Sports junkies watch 
VITALE -Well, I need A. T., seven-yard pattern. Well, you time, blowout city, Twinkiearea of California -but that isn'tfootball or baseball from the more air time, baby! could hear the crowd and the dipsy dunkers-roo, roo, doo.
why I'm so hyped on him -is aWest Coast, then watch teen­ENBERG -I'd hate to compare booing. If I were down there in doo!

sophomore, who probably willage motorcycle raeing, beach Taylor to Digger. Oh my! the crowd too, I'd do the same. PAPEH BAG -Gentlemen, I ambe, dearly, the best Quick Guard vollnyball, frog jumping VITALE -Now you're talking my But who's to say? Aaron Taylor. 

in Notre Dame history. I thinkcontests.. .it goes on all night. 

game, baby! Dipsy doo dunker­PAPER BAG -I'm not Gerry VITALE -I was certain youanybody can figure that one roo! Faust. were Digger. baby! Oh well, it'sout. But who's to say? 
I was amazed that these an­WALSH -That's right, Dick. VITALE -That's right, baby! I'd only rock and roll time. 
PAPEH BAG -Who can younouncers sounded exactly the SILENCE know Digger anywhere! It's PAPER BAG -No. it's R.A.P .. 

compare him to?

same in real life as they do on ENBERG -He was talking to rock and roll time, blowout city, Jazz time, baby! 
ENBEHG -Oh my! Old Spicetlw air. Here's part of their im­you that time. cupcake city ENBEHG-Oh my! We can't giveAfter-shave, our sponsor. It wasportant conversation: VITALE -Sorry, baby! ·ENBERG -We were talking you rum. We can't even adver­the first after-shave I ever used,ENBEHG -It's really wonderful about Faust. But I'd like to take tise beerand it's still my favorite. Oh my!

to be at Noootre Daaarne. I WALSH -You just can't do that a moment to talk about our NBC during the games. You're notVITALE -Get a T.O., time out,don't know if I can single out comparison with a coach and a Executive Producer, Terry twenty-one yet. I hope Noootrebaby!
any one thing about its great­quick guard. That's why you O'Neil, who is a Noootre Daaame won't cancel our con­WALSH -Well, of course their
rwss. MaybB the breathtaking 
have to do it with other NO Daaame grad. Outside of my Old tract on us!
slogan, Put the wind in yourviflw of the Gooolden Dooorne people. You know, Aaron Taylor Spice, he's my favorite (5 WALSH -Of course this is toosails, is one of those PR thingsfrom tlw Goodyear blimp, but is only a sophomore, and what seconds of silence, uh, (7 sec­bad, Dick, that we can't offerthey create and then just say,nothing nmlly can stand alone. 

a great story he has. He's like onds of silence) topic ... (20 sec­the rum. But that's cool. Hellothe heck with it. Well, it's tooWAI.SII -Wnll who's to say'? But the "hot receiver" each play has onds of silence as he looks at an Mr. Taylor. It's a pleasure tobad, Dick, I don't want to be
renwmber Aaron Taylor, the 
in case the defense blitzes. He upset Walsh).. just after Taylor, meet you. Have I ever told you
critical, but why didn't they

sophomorn Quick Guard. Dick, 
straightened out his life and Bill. how much I've admired your
have a slogan that would attractwho was tlw Chnvrolet Player of came to Notre Dame. That WALSH -Well its too bad, Dick. abilities?

a higher percentage of buyers? 

thn Game, and in that first 
decision was like an exeellent I don't want to be critical, and PAPER BAG -No, but you'veLike "Be a blowhard but smellgarnn we covered'? 
call by the officials. who's to say, but your TV cov­told thirty million viewers eachgood!" That slogan moves like a ENBERG -Besides, Digger had erage is too tight. Aaron Taylor Saturday.
screen pass. I think anybody

VITALE -That's right. baby! 
some great moments on the is a great NFL prospect. Now, WALSH -Dick, give him yourcan figure that one out.
lie's a P.T.P.'er -Prime Time court. I'd not because he's from my area bottle of Old Spice!
VITALE -But who's to say?

Playflr. compare Taylor to those mo­of California, but I would give VITALE -Gladly, baby! That
WALSH -That's my line!

ENBEHG -lie wasn't talking to ments. him a bottle of rum if he was stuff belongs on the All-OldAnybody but you can figure thatyou. I'm the Dick he means! 
VITALE -Wait a minute. You're here now. Farts Team! 
one out.

PAPEH BAG -What about not Digger are you, baby? VITALE -It's party time, baby! ENBERG -Oh my, not you! YouPAPEH BAG -Guys, how aboutTaylor? 
PAPER BAG -No, football is my WALSH -I'd even say he's bet­don't have any Old Spice. He'scomparing Taylor? 
WALSH -Well, you see, he was game. ter than Dan Wagner. But who's talking about my Old Spice, andENBERG -Oh my! Now here'sat the right of the sereen, and VITALE -Are you kidding me, to say? I won't part with it. I'd ratheranother great slogan, "Noootretlw replay showed it elearly, babv? VITALE -Who's Wagner, baby? go to CBS. 
ENBERG -Oh my! He's the WALSH -That's too bad, Dick. 
great Noootre Daaame No question about it. I have the 
leprechaun this year. You know, Super Bowl rings, not you. And 
the one Lou Holtz called unreal" if you don't give Mr. Taylor your 
at the first pep rally -when our OW Spice, you'll be on ESPN at 
NBC cameras were there? He's 4 AM calling frog jumps! But 
home on NBC too! who's to say? 
VITALE -Oh yeah. He's dated ENBERG -Oh my! Uh, Mr. 
my daughter, but I never knew Taylor, how many bottles of Old 
his name! Wears a real P.T.O., Spice would you like? 
prime time outfit, baby! 
WALSH -Of course this is too Gary J. Caruso is a graduate of 
bad, Dick, that we keep straying the University of Notre Dame 
from the real purpose of our and now works in Washington, 
lives, to discuss Aaron Taylor. D. C. as a desktop publishing 
No question about it, he plays specialist for the United States 
each phase of the game well. He House of Representatives. His .._ 
has P.S.T., pure strength and column appears every other 
talent, baby. Wednesday. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Judea-Christian model of 'natural law' is a return to the 'Dark Ages' 
Dear Editor: opposes birth control, sex hy­somehow impure and regret­savage who goes without which are revocable-can be 
U.S. Supreme Court nominee giene and items such as con­table. Yet celibacy practiced by clothing. found in the Bible and many Clarence Thomas' praise for the doms, sex education in schools, the Catholic hierarchy is just as Today we support the idea of rights therein are ethnic group implicit use of natural law in abortion, masturbation, and unnatural as birth control. inherent human rights but and gender based. judicial decisions gives legal homosexuality. Their real mo-. In Asia 2,400 years ago the these are quite different from Let's not return to the Dark standing to Catholic theological tive is to make people suffer for Chinese philosopher Lao-tse natural law. Since Judeo­Ages under the rubric of natu­complaints about "unnatural" having sex. objected to roads, carriages, Christianity's basic cosmological ral law. sex. They still believe virginity is and boats as unnatural. Clothes model is essentially monarchial, Jim Senyszyn 
Using tho pretext of natural best and that all sexual inter­are contrary to nature yet make only acquired, and more Naugatuck, CT law, the Catholic hierarchy course, even with marriage, is man healthier than the naked specifically, bestowed rights--Oct. 12, 1991 

I 
I 
t 
I I I 
~ ~ 
-
I 
I t 
t 
_... 
...... 
page 12 
John O'Brien 
Rockne's Lovechild 
Cat eating and 
other October 
Break activities 
W 
hat did you do over break? 
How many times have you heard 
this question in the last three 
days? Probably too many. The only 
thing worse than than hearing that question is hearing your reponse. "I went home and made several original toe­jam sculptures," or "I went to Graceland and took several nude photographs with my Velvet Elvis Portrait." 
If these were the only pathetic activities you could accomplish over break, do not despair. Your problem lies not in the fact that you have a bizarre life that John Hinckley would be ashamed to have, but in the fact that you don't give good answers. 
Next time someone asks you what you did over break, try one of these answers: 
t) I ate a cat. 
Now, of course you didn't-but you should have. What else are those dumb things good for? They're sneaky, smelly and they make peo­ple sick. 
There is nothing worse than having someone invite you over to their home, feed you, give you a place to spend the night and then let you know that they own a cat. How rude. 
Just think, if we start eating cats, there'll be no more "Noodle Kugel" in the dining halls-only "Noodle Kitty." "French Fried Felines" and "Tabby Taffy" would become staples. In the condiment bar there would be, of course, "Cat-sup." 
If this catches on, we could be rid of those dirty little creatures within a few years, and you could tell people you were responsible. 
2) I played with babies. 
Even if you didn't, this answer is sure to get you a favorable reaction. In particular, you'll get the cooing noise that people make when they see a baby. Women usually do it with less embarrassment, and men will do it too, but then men will reassure their masculinity by either a) talking about football, or b) grabbing their crotches. 
I was lucky enough to play with two babies over break. One is about 21 months old and the other about 24 hours old. 
While both of them were cute and fun, the older one was more fun. Her interests run the gamut from "Throwing Things at Uncle John" to "Pooping." The baby girl's interests are more limited. In fact, they're limited to "Drooling" and "Pooping." 
Either way, playing with babies will make you seem sensitive and caring, and that's important to women and men of the '90s. 
3) I got hate letters. 
Once again, I draw from personal experience. I received a neatly-typed, unsigned letter with a disguised postmark that read [I edited a little]: 
John: Re: The History of Notre Dame du Lac (well, sort o!J 
You should have your [testicles removed] and stuffed in your mouth. You [sic]ass ought to be kicked out of ND. If I had a million dollars, I would never give ND one cent-if you are what the school produces. I hope your parents saw the article, but perhaps they are sick like you. 
In reply, I write: 
Dear sir or madam (if you're out there), 
If you had a million dollars, you might want to try paying for some grammar lessons, although your language is quite eloquent. I tried to speak to my parents about your concerns, but the in­stitution does not allow visitors on weekdays. 
Finally, I must compliment you on your culi­nary tastes. I've heard of Rocky Mountain Oys­ters, but never made from human material. You must have first-hand knowledge of this practice, though. Otherwise you might have signed your name. 
John O'Brien is Accent Editor ofThe Observer. His columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 


Accent 
Wednesday, October 30, 1991 

My life as a 

Herb Juliano, founder of SERV, has invested alifetime in Notre Dame 
By TONY POPANZ 
Accent Writer 
From pressbox to pulpit, Herb Juliano's heart has belonged to Notre Dame. 
As a Domer, he has traditionally collaborated a love for athletics with a strong faith in God. 
Most recently the founder of SERV, Students Encouraging Religious Vocations, Juliano has made serving Notre Dame a lifetime commitment. 
At the beginning of his involvement at Notre Dame, in the 1950's, Juliano announced for the Irish Football Network, which in its time was the largest independent, specialized network in the world. Later, he took on a sportscaster job at WNDU-TV. 
During the 1974 World Series, Juliano published a treatise on the future of baseball. His experiences with the sport climaxed when he took a New Jersey little league team to Williamsport, PA, and won the Little League World Series in 1949. 
In his book, Juliano made a number of proposals. He said that his greatest satisfaction in the book was knowing that baseball had adopted at least four of the proposals outlined in his book. 
He added, 'Though, I must admit, they stopped short of running the bases clockwise and using orange­colored baseballs. You win some and you lose some." 
In 1975, Juliano became curator of INSPORTS (International Sports and Games Research). Kept in the basement of the Hesburgh Library, it is the most comprehensive sports collection of books and microfiche in the country. 
Recently, Juliano founded SERV. SERV is not only for the seminarians, but also for those who pray for vocations and support those who wish to become priests. 
SERV sponsors a Vocation Vigil, which asks each student to devote one hour each month praying for vocations to the priesthood. Juliano believes that the support SERV offers is vital because it is sometimes hard to make such a big commitment. He said, "If you feel you have a vocation, you should answer the call and go." 
In its second year, Juliano is proud of his organization's progress. A weekly mass and rosary centered on vocation are already established. Also, a SERV scholarship fund helps finance the seminarians. 
Long-range plans include establishing SERV at the high school level and implementing an annual summer seminar on religious vocations, inviting prospective students nationwide to spend a week on the Notre Dame campus. 
Despite all of this activity, Juliano has written a 350-page book in just three months, entitled "Notre Dame 
Herb Juliano (left), devoted to uniting sports and religion, visits with former baseball star Bill Virden, in Sox Park in Chicago in 1975. 
Odyssey: A Journey through Sports and Spirituality on the Notre Dame Campus." 
His new book covers the past forty years of his eventful life here at Notre Dame. It also includes some previously unpublished stories and photos spanning from the early 1900's to the present. 
This repertoire of stories and anecdotes brings to life many previously unrecognized figures and events. 
For example, "Odyssey" recounts the 1,924 brawls between the Irish and the Ku Klux Klan. Three riots took place, and the final stages of the rivalry could have ended in bloodsheld if it were not for the efforts of Knute Rockne and the university president, said Juliano. 
Also, baseball great Louis Sockalexis is featured, who went on to play for the Cleveland Spiders. Sockalexis, an American Indian, had such extraodrinary skills that the team changed its name to the Cleveland Indians. 
This is a sampling of the insight Juliano has had about Notre Dame's colorful history. Although the forementioned stories were before his time at ND, he also includes stories and anecdotes pertaining to his own experiences. 
"Friends kept telling me that I should write a book on my experiences here," said Juliano. 
To write his book, he only used what resources he kept in his apartment-his files, his books, and, most importantly, his memory. At his desk there sits an antique manual Remmington typewriter. Surprisingly, this was the simple tool with which production began and ended. 
To put sports into its proper prospective, Juliano promotes Christian Olympics, or World Brotherhood Games. These upgraded Olympics would eliminate the nationalism, politics, and commercialism found in modern­day Olympic events. Christian Olympics would resemble ancient Olympics, in that these would be one-half religious ceremony and one-half sporting event. Juliano believes that all Christian athletes from around the world would take this opportunity to practice their faith as they compete. 
The importance of faith in Juliano's life has never been more evident than it is today. He is one of the more frequent lectors at the Sacred Heart Parish. Out of his collection, he reprints pictures of famous Notre Dame sports figures and memorabilia and has compiled a set of thirty photographs he calls "The Gallery of Legends." He sells these on game days for profit which he donates to the Sacred Heart Parish, Knights of the Immaculada, Holy Cross Parish, and SERV. 
Juliano sees his work as a service to God and the ND community, which has provided him with many cherished memories. 

Wednesday, October 30, 1991 page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from to a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
Classifieds 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3p.m. All classifleds ­
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Need NAVY & TENN GAs! x4282 Can you dig this I I am terribly HELP!!! I NEED 1 STD AND/OR Let Lando live forever! Notices 219-291-7153 interested in buying a Student ticket 1-3 NAVY GA's FOR MY FAMILY for Tennessee. Price is no object, CALL AMY x2797 Need TENN Tixl Will sell unless of course you want more Bachelor will pay $$$ and dinner to TYPING AVAILABLE 2 bdrm house. $150 & family members if a must! money than I am willing to pay you. bachelorette for 2 Navy GA's. 287-4082 $200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 Call Tom X1613 Give Dave Bose a ring at 283-2015. Please Help!! Need 3 Navy GAs Steve x2354 Walk to campus. It Dave is busy his personal staff will Call Janna or Elissa at x4220 
1310 South Bend Ave. be happy to help you. Irish V-ball Buy and Sell used books I need 1 NAVY STUD for a close ruleslllllllllll COMEDY IMPAOV Pandora 's Books-newbooks and friend. Have 2 Navy G.A.'s, will trade/sell SHOW-FREEI! the NY nmes tool! Gorgeous 3 bedroom historical Greg x1742 lor 1 or 2 Tenn. G.A.'s. Dan x2308 Come see Irish Accent kick off its corner of ND ave and Howard home. No appliances. $550/mo. I desperately need 1 TENN stud 91-92 season with its new cast o' 233-2342/10-5:30 everyday Call Jeanine Bizzaro 282-1762 or ticket! Julie 277-6806 members. It's alot of fun and a great 
Cressy & Everett/ BH & G 233-I need 2 or 4 tix for Navy NEED!!!! time! Come join the fun at 
6141. and Tennessee One ticket for Tenn. Theodore's Wednesday night at TERM PAPERS/RESUMES Please call Jerry x1691 NEED 2 NAVY GAs WILL PAY GA or Student. Future domer 9:00. And remember it's FREE! II Computer-Typed, 232-3325. $$$ CALL AMY 2558 wants to see his first game 
ONE ROOMMATE WANTED. TWO call x1117 
BEDROOMS. FULLY FURNISHED, WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs FOR HI do you know what a TEC is? NEAR NO . FIRST AND LAST 2 TENN GAs. Dan x1798 will buy any If so, please contact MONTHS RENT IN ADVANCE. tenn or navy I NEED NAVY GA'S OR STUD TIX Joe at 1 029 or Kathy at 4209 RESUME REQUIRED. 287-2583 tix. john 1811 LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes 
I need three NAVY GA's for every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am. visiting sister and friends. CALL TOM Eastern time. Train and jump the Spee-Dee Wordprocessing LARGE 3-BEDROOM DUPLEX Two have never seen an ND NEED 2 NAVY AND TENN GA'S X1762 same day. Modern equipment and 
237-1949 NEAR ND. APPLIANCES, game before and would love MIKE 1655 training programs. Licensed GARAGE, WALK-IN CLOSETS, to go. Call Elizabeth at X4294. instructors. FFI call Skydive NEW CARPET/PAINT. $395 + I NEED 2 TENN GA&-LAURA Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
Ste-UTILITIES. 289-1618. WANTED: 3 TENN GA'S 277-9158 wha chu do? I made lots of $$$ over break and CALL x4774 need 2 Navy GA's (hint)! Steve 0¢0 The Copy Shop 000 For Sale x2354 NEED TENN. GA's NEED: 2 GA'S FOR NAVY, TENN LaFortune Student Center Lost and Found Please call Jill 272-1967 PLEASE CALL JARED X 1592 WHEN YOU NEED COPIES WE'RE OPEN 
'85 NISSAN MAXIMA, 4-dr. stick, Helpllll I need 2 GA's for Navy WET AND WILD FUN! EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS LOST: WALLET BETWEEN loaded. Excellent condition. $4990. Please call call284-5129. Will Make your O'SHAG & WASHINGTON HALL 271-70181v. msg. Timmy@ 233-9588. dreams come true for 5 NAVY GA's 'HELP!! I need NAVY stud. tixll' CALL JIM 283-1174. REWARD. 'Please call Lynne X2614 To Lisa K. and Kim T. and all the 
.......................... 

other DUDES of 4th-floor KNOTT­
Hawaii Help! Help! Help! NEED 1 STUDENT and 3 GA'S you are all simply awesome and LOST: gray ztp-up sweatshirt AT Air Chicago to Honolulu Alum needs Navy tickets!! II lor NAVY nothing more need be said. w/hood with keys In pocket. Lost ND-HAWA!f game Please call Terry Kaiwala CALL KARIN at x1314 Ill WILL BUY TENN Wed, 10/16, in Am. 220 O'Shag. call Andy 234-1698 if you have some GA's!ll!!l Mike 288-7458 Call Dana 277-8084. LONDON PROGRAM 
Need Tenn. st. or alum tix$$ please 
New 15 Gallon Tank w/ everything call Dan x1740 Personal APPLICATIONS LOST: Navy blue blazer at the SMC tor sale Paul2462 Need 3 student or GA's for Tenn. Junior Dance on Fri. Oct. Rich x1926 are due t 1. I left coat on coat-rack in Haggar Need 2 Navy and 2 tennessee I did not come to Notre Dame for 5:00P.M. Hall. 'DIIIiards' brand ND FOOTBALL TICKETS G.A.'S. Big $$$. Call Chris ACADEMICS Thursday, October 31 name on inside coat pocket. WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ x2377 I came here for the chicks. 
Reward. It found call Chris I need three Navy tickets at x2377 desperately! Please help me out I "Halloween Headquarters" i need GAs for NAVY!!! Todd x1784 Call x4274 and ask lor Joe. Good afternoon, my friends. I am the Lizard King and I can do Masks, make-up, and spider webs! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I have a small request which I hope anything. Pumpkins lor carving, witchy trolls, 
Wanted can be mutually beneficial to all and pumpkin bears I FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME involved. I desperately need 4 GAs Skeleton earrings, tiny candy tins, GAMES273-1802 $$ $$WANTED$$$$$ for Tennessee. It you have any at all Monica Eigelberger is a ho. and spooky sounds! 
Statistics consultant wanted -ND One TENN TIX for friend please call Gina@ 2982. If I am The Country Harvester professional specialist or grad coming a long way. Call unavailable, please leave a M-F 12-5 student, expert in stat & SPSS/PC WANT TO PURCHASE STUDENT Amanda at x-1715. message so I can get back to you. GETAWAY WEEKEND Lower Level LaFortune 4.0, to help local firm design & TICKET BOOKS. PLEASE CALL KOONTZ HOUSE implement customer surveys. Must 284-3814, LEAVE YOUR NAME, FOR SALE: BED 'N BREAKFAST have time available. Send resume NUMBER AND PRICE I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S UNSIGNED STUDENT TICKET 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE Trick or treat with Christi and Rose to SBS/KMA, PO box 1024, Notre WILL PAY $40 AND UP BOOK WITH REMAINDER OF DAME at The Country Harvester II Dame, IN 46556 Help I need cash to pay my ND HOME GAMES. 586-7090 
parking tickets CALL TOM CALL AND MAKE GOOD OFFER­
so I'm selling my unsigned std. X1762 JOE 271-1211 stronger than burt Comedy (FREE) lmprov (FREE) Downtown book warehouse ticket book with (leave name, number and offer Show by Irish (FREE) Accent. NOW HIRING Send Name, Add., Navy and Tenn. if I'm not there) Wednesday night , 9:00 (FREE) at phone#, yr/major, to call x4278 (leave offer) NEED 4 TENN GA'S AND 2 NAVY CARROLL HALL Theodore's (FREE). II you want to Mr. Turner, P.O. Box 4621 GA'S. CALL #3718. CARROLL HALL laugh (FREE) come see the brand South Bend IN 46624 ALUMNI PARENTS ARE COMING HAUNTED HOUSE (FREE) new cast of Irish (FREE) 
I NEED NAVY GA'S IN FOR NAVY AND WILL HAUNTED HOUSE Accent. and remember it's FREE !II 
CALL KRISTIN 277-6708 NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. ABANDON THEIR OLDEST who : da' Vermin ALASKA SUMMER CALL DAVE AT X1807. DAUGHTER IF SHE DOESN'T when: Thurs. Oct. 31st HI! EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn FIND TICKETS. CALL LAURA where : Carroll (didn't you $5,000+/month. Free HELPII NEED USC AND TENN. X3486 read the headline?) hjlhllhhklhl transportation! Room & Board! TIXII CALL X3353 FOR SALE:2 NAVY GAs x2742 why : it's SPOOOOOOKY! Over 8,000 openings. No PETE Admission: $2 Dear Bo, experience necessary. MALE or NEED 1 NAVY GAl X1750 The ghouling starts at 7:30 Only two home games left-you FEMALE. For employment program HELP! I'm in need of 4 GA tics for ends at 10:30 better get on the ball! call Student Employment Services the TENN game. $$ NEED A TENN. STUD IN A$$ at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 118. Call Alissa at 284-5319. $BAD WAY. CALL DAN x3403 $ NEED 5 NAVY GA'S FOR MY TRIXIE, BETCH, PETER,SAMIDH 
PARENTS' DRINKING BUDDIES We never, ever want to go back to 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Fat Shirley's again. FUNDRAISER. We're looking tor a Need 2 Navy GA's I Have 2 Navy Stud. Tix. Sub Alum looking Good rates. Save Money. Call me student organization or club that call Kim at x4355 Jay x1578 FOR FOUR FOR lor a quote 9:30-6:00, Well Samidh, would like to make $500-$1500 tor Penn St x2447 289-1993. Office near campus. It sure was fun. Here are a lew a one week marketing project on things we all hope you remember: campus. Must be organized and Help me show some southerners WILL BUY TENN IN HONOR OF ABUSE ROB -your piece of resistance hard working. Call Betsy or Mary how real football is played.! need 2 MIKE 288-7458 Need 2 UT-Notre Dame GA tickets WEEK, WE HAVE THE RULES -Free Belch, It's just not right Beth at 800-592-2121. TN GAs. Call Will at x3001. Nov. 9. Call (704) 541-8845. FOR ROB: -the 1814 extended dance remix 
1. Thou shalt not slap our behinds. -Knute Rockne's grave 
I NEED USC,TENN,PITT,& NAVY 2. Always use a knife to cut the -the lawnmower dance NEED Tenn/Navy GAs-please Need 3 Navy GA's. Call Mike @ GA TIXS.272-6306 BIG BUCKS!! cake. -1 will not lie, we were drunk Chris1791 x1630. I need two Tenn. G.A.'s and I 3. You are not allowed to say," No -The Yugo might actually be a ten-
will pay greatly lor them. woman should be that pissed off!" speed, but I'm not getting in the 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S Call Chris at -1736. 4. Just because you are going middle of this. TRAVEL FREEl! SELL QUALITY GET MUCH $$$ FOR NAVY GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME$ home the day of your birthday and SPRING BREAK VACATION TO CALL MATT x1772 CALL COLLECT doesn't mean you can't go out the -Not to blow our own horns, that JAMAICA. HIGHEST 812-477-2627 $$$ I need tots o' GA's for Navy night before. would be disgusting COMMISSIONS PAID. WORK FOR NEEDED: 2 NAVY GA'S $$$ IS and Tenn. Call #3372 and ask lor 5. No sarcasm allowed! Love, All your new friends at ND THE BEST! NO OBJECT CALL FRED I need a Navy GA desperately Aaron or leave message. $$$ 6. No mocking allowed! SUN SPLASH TOURS 289-6439 Call Mike x4655 7. No looking down our shirts to 1-800-426-7710. Need Tenn GAs Chris X2125 determine the color of 
undergarments. 

i need a NAVY student ticket. pete Need TENN & USC GA's Stan 8. No smoking. Earn $2500 & Free Trips Selling x1791. x1726 SELL MARRIED STD TIX 9. Never ever ever ever ever ever Spring Break Packages To NAVY, TENN 271 19 98 ever ever ever get back together Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, with an old girlfriend. Florida! Best Trips & Prices! Spring Help!!!Need 2 GA's for NAVY II TENNESSEE: NEED 6 GA'S 10. You shall not act like a Break Travel 1-800-638-6786. Call 284-4298 $$$ SHARON 284-5146 I HAVE 2 NAVY GAS! 
c-k lor one day of every week ******************* 
JILL X3021 (courtesy of Brown). Jt • 
11.Youmustatwaystakeourside. lAIII $500 ... $1000 ... $1500 Jt-I DESPERATELY NEED A COPY Bob Dylon concert tickets Need 2 GA's for Navy and OF THE 1988 NOTRE DAME­288-4959 Tennessee. Call Tim at x1417. Need 1 Navy GA or stud ticket 
~~2;~;~~:r~~~~::a:s~h~e womar: FOOLPROOF :
MIAMI GAME. IF YOU HAVE A Mary X2512 COPY THAT I COULD BORROW, realization of who your superior is PLEASE CALL RICH AT '1047 NEED: 2 GA's Navy and 4 GA's I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC and treat him with the respect and 
i FUNDRAISING : 
Tenn. Call John 273-9165. and Tennessee. Need 4 Navy Tix and 1 Tenn. Stud. admiration he deserves (Brian V.). !: For your fraterntly. soronty, team cit : Chris 239-5713 Tic. X1604 13. Watch for those deer-crossing 
; other campus orgamzatton. ,._
BLUR signs. 
It Absolutely no in11estment rrqulfed! It
Chicago Nov 5 Wealthy Double Domer from 14. No drinking Mad-dog. tree ticket tor ride Albuquerque needs 2 Navy GAs. TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS. Need 4 Tenn. GA's X1604 15. No more comments about Jt-An IIOW POl Till CIWKI to -A : 284-5486 call x4942 RANDY 800-323-7687. bringing a purse to the bathroom. !: cu.1A11 cntll AMI PUII\Ott ,._ Jt­BLUR 16. No going to the bathroom and 
or. . • 
It CALL 1-800-950-8472. ext. 50 Jt­
NEED TENN AND NAVY GAs. ending up outside Farley. 
Jt­

Help I ND alum needs two Navy BIG $$ For 2 Tenn GAs MONEY NO OBJECT. 17. This is the first time you've 
..................,
For Rent GAs. Call Terry x4076 Marc x1689 Call Ron x2157 heard that! 

-~--~ ~--------~---~------~--------~---~----------~-~--­



SMC FALL FEST 
Wednesday Thursday Friday nternational Party Costume Party ND Homecoming Parade 
a multi-<:ultural food festival 

during dinner at the Dining Hall 
Haggar Parlor Come to Goodwill Plaza 
Cash Prizes for the Best Costumes! and Support the
7-9 

SMC Float! All Week: Big Leaf Contest and The Funniest Thing That Happened to Me at SMC Story Contest 
-SCOREBOARD 
2 Miami(3) 7-0-0 2 2-0-0 23-21-1 Allowed only 7.9 ppg. 3 Washington 7-0-0 1,412 3 2-0-0 28-13-1 No. 1 defense in nation 4 Michigan 6-1-0 1,312 4 2-1-0 29-14-1 8-2 last ten vs. Purdue 5 NotreDame 7-1-0 1,247 5 1-1-0 32-18-1 1963 last loss to Navy 6 Aorida 6-1-0 1,210 6 3-1-0 28-16-0 4-22-1 record at Auburn 
6-1-0 1,058 7 2-1-0 20-18-0 32-1 vs. MSU since 1958 7-2-0 1,046 8 1-1-0 34-25-0 RB Anderson 100 yds. 
6-1-0 910 11 1-1-0 21-21-1 2-7-1 last ten vs. OSU 5-1-0 822 13 1-0-0 18-19-1 Shutout Klingler-10 sacks 
6-1-0 743 14 

I I I I I I 
l I 
t 
I I I I I I I I I I 
I TRANSACTIONS I 
BASEBALL
I American Le•gue
I CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Declined to exercise 1992 contract option ol Scott Fletcher, second
I 
baseman, and declined to offer him salary
I 
arbitration. Named Tonmy Thompson calchingI coordinator and Ken Silvestri assistant player I 
development Instructor; Terry Francona manager and Jaime Garcia pitching ooach of South Bend of
I 
the M~t League; Rick Peterson p~chlngI coordinator of Vancouver ol the Pacific Coast 
I 
League; Don Cooper pitching coach of 
Birmingham of the Southern League and Kirk 
I 
Champion phchlng coach at Sarasota of the Florida State League. 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I 
r------------------· 
I I 
-~­

MOVIE MegaStore I II TWO for One I 
I

I 
Rent (1) NEW Release I

I 
I

I Get 2nd One FREE I 
I 
I llol Vlicl Will Olhor CaltMm 01 SpoQas 
1111111111111111111111111111 MegaStore 
10011850 
au w. llldUal.,-.,., 
.............. DC 
aw-eso. u.u ...............

.__________________.
I ..........IN 
I :17S•U78 I 
I I 
I I 
I 
I I 
...... 
0-1-0 16-27-0 21-2-1 vs. Iowa since '63 
NEW YORK YANKEEs-Named Buck Showalter manager. OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Offered salary arbitration to Mike Moore, phcher. 
SEATTLE MARINERs-Named Bill Plummer manager. National League 

FLORIDA MARLINs-Named Ken Kravec major league contract. 
LOS ANGELES DODGERs-offered salary arb~ration to John Candelaria and Jim Gon, pitchers. 
NEW YORK METS-Declined to offer salary arbitration to Garry Templeton, shortstop. 
BASKETBALL 
N"lon•l B..ketball A..oclaUon 

ATLANTA HAWK5-Walved Darren Henrie and Dave Popson, forwards, and Clifford Len. guard. BOSTON CELTIC5-Signed Larry Robinson, forward. DALLAS MAVERICKs-Waived Michael Cutright, guard. INDIANA PACERS-Waived Greg Grant, guard, and Doug Roth, center. NEW YORK KNICK5-Walved Jarvis Basnight, forward. 
SMC/ ND BONFIRE With the Campus Band PALACE LAUNDRY 
WHEN: Wednesday, Oct. 30 8 P.M. WHERE: Saint Mary's Soccer Field All are Welcome 

#1 Howard (4-1) Sunday,Nov.3 
#4 Fisher (3-0-1) 

AoridaSt. 1 3-0-0 29-19-0 10-1 over Louisville Sunday, Nov. 3  
1 p.m. Stepan North # 5 Zahm (3-1)  Sunday, Nov. 10  


#1 Carroll (3-0-1) 
CHAMPIONSHIP 

#2 Keenan (3-1 ) 
Sunday, Nov. 17 #3 Flanner (2-1-1) Sunday, Nov. 10 
1 p.m. Stadium 1 p.m. Stepan North 
Sunday,Nov.3 2 p.m. Stepan North 
#6 Off-Campus (2-2) 

PHOENIX SUN5-Waived Joey Wright, guard. Placed Trent Tucker, guard, on the Injured list. 
PORTLAND TRAILBLAZERs-Waived Walter Davis, guard, and Stuart Gray, center. Placed Ennis Whatley and Lamont Strothers. guards, on the Injured list. Continental Basketball Association 
ALBANY PATROONs-Waived Carlos Saflllle, guard, and Dominique Stephens, forward. Global Baaketball Aaaociatlon 
ALBANY SHARP SHOOTERs-signed Dwayne Davis and Michael Kennedy, forwards. 
FOOTBALL 
National Football League 

PHOENIX CARDINALs-Waived Terrence Flagler, running back, and Seen Evans, linebacker. PITISBURGH STEELER5-Waived Mike Whhycombe, offensive lineman. SAN DIEGO CHARGERs-Waived Arthur Cox, tight end. 
GENERAL 
LOS ANGELES AMATEUR ATHLETIC FOUNDATION-Named Barry Zepel communications director. 
HOCKEY 
National Hockey League 
NHL-Suspended Mike Krushelnyskl, Toronto Maple Leala center, for four games for deliberately swinging his stick at an opponent In a game Oct. 25. 
BOSTON BRUIN5-Aoqulred Brent Ashton, left wing, from the Winnipeg Jets for Petri Skriko, left wing. Announced the retirement of Alan Stewart, left wing. 
LOS ANGELES KINGs-Recalled Brent Thompson, defenseman. from Phoenix of the International Hockey League. 
PITISBURGH PENGUINS-Assigned Glenn Mulvenna, center, to Muskegon of the International Hockey League. 
SOCCER 
NaUonal Proleaalonal Soccer League 
CANTON INVAOER5-Signed Time Liekoski, coach, to a 1-year contract. 
ILLINOIS THUNDER-Signed Brad Hauter, goahender and Ml<e Bardby, toward. 
#2 Pasquerilla West (3-2) 
Sunday, Nov. 3 

,..... 

COLLEGE BENTLEY-Named Marlon Dukeman women's part-time assistant basketball coach. LAMAR-Nanned Bill Pope and Art Prevost men's assistant basketball ooaches. NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY­Nanned Sal Petruzzla sports Information director. 
QUINNIPIAC-Nanned Charlene Taylor and Anna Rodonski women's assistant basketball coaches. 
Investigate Observer Classllleds lor your advertisement needs 
Happyzoth Birthday 
MIKE McWILLIAMS 
"BEAV" 
Love, Dad, Mom, 
KipSBubba 

vveonesoay, uctooer ;:su, 1~~ 1 1ne uoserver page 1::> 
UNLV hoops players may have violated NCAA rule 
lAS VEGAS (AP) -UNLV of­ficials, using a video camera hidden in an air conditioning duct, secretly taped a condition­ing dass during which basket­ball players may have been practicing early in violation of NCAA regulations. 
The school said Tuesday it un­covered evidence that "certain activities" were conducted in the class that might constitute basketball practice. It sent a memo to three assistant coaches asking them to appear at a hearing to answer the alle­gations. 
One of the coaches, longtime assistant Tim Grgurich, ex­pressed outrage through his lawyer over the taping and 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
would do real well, but at sec­ond and third doubles, I didn't know we would be as dominat­ing as we were. We lost very few games." 
After the MCCs were over and claimed the university had also been following him and opening his mail. 
"It's just another effort by the university to destroy the bas­ketball program," said Grgurich's lawyer, Roy Smith. "Where will they stop? Are they also bugging telephones?" 
UNLV legal counsel Brad Booke said the video camera was installed only after the school was thwarted in efforts to dispel charges that UNLV players were practicing to­gether prior to the official Oct. 15 start of practice. 
Booke said the doors were locked to the campus gym where the class was conducted, and said the university needed 
most of the team was on break, Melissa Harris, Faustmann, and Schwab were off to the All­American tournament to repre­sent the Irish. Schwab lost her first-round qualifying match to Sarah Maynard of California, a hard-fought 6-3, 6-4 battle. 
Faustmann knocked off Ruth Ann Stevens of Utah 6-1, 6-1 in the first qualifying round. 


CARMELITES 
ACfiVE AND 
CONTEMPLATIVE MEN 
CALLED TO BRING GOD'S 
LOVE INTO 1HE WORLD 

C.umrlites in our Province of thr Most Pure Heart of Mary, consisting of 285 priests and 30 Brothers, have always responded to the needs of the Church in varied ministries; throughout lhr United States as well as Ontario and Quebec, Canada and Rome. Our missionaries serve in Lima and Sicuani, Pt.>m. 
-CONTACT-

Rev. Peter McGarry, 0. Carm., Vocation Director 
1313 Frontage Road 
Darien, Illinois 60559-5341 (708) 852-4536 
to find out for itself whether it was breaking any NCAA rules. 
"Obviously, this is not a happy situation," Booke said. "The university is in a position of great risk. It has to do what it reasonably can do to make sure that we're monitoring and complying with NCAA rules." 
Booke declined to say what was on the Oct. 8 videotape of the class, which has 13 UNLV basketball players among its 28 students. The six-week condi­tioning class was a for-credit class open to any UNLV student. 
He said that whether there was a violation will "require an interpretation," either by school or NCAA officials. 
Stevens had defeated Faustmann last spring in a dual match. In her next match, Faustmann fell in a close three­setter to 50th ranked Eva Olivarez, San Diego State's number-one singles player, 6-3, 3-6, 6-4. 
Melissa Harris, the third seed in the qualifying round, did reach the main draw. To get there, she defeated Leslie Barbour of Arizona 6-1, 6-1, Laura Randma of LSU 6-2, 6-3, and Nathalie Rodriguez of South Carolina 6-2, 6-4. Rodriguez, who reached the quaterfinals of the National Clay Courts earlier this year, is the first-singles player at Carolina. 
In the main draw, Harris came away with a tremendous win in the first round, defeating Danielle Scott, Arizona's top­singles player, 5-7, 7-6, 6-2 after being down one set and fighting off match point in the second-set tiebreaker. Scott is ranked sixth in the country and was the tournament's third seed. 
Harris then fell top Duke's Tracey Heite in the second round 3-6, 6-3, 6-2. 
"Melissa played on such a high level through the qualify­ing round and in the main 
Smith, however, said the tape simply showed conditioning ex­ercises run by the three coaches and nothing that could be con­strued as a basketball practice. 
"There's no basketball. There's no imitation basketballs," he said. "The tape just shows them out there running wind sprints." 
Booke said the university had hoped to keep the entire inci­dent private, and said he sent the tape to a lawyer for one of the coaches, along with a sug­gestion that the team cancel one day of official practice to make up for any alleged viola­tions. 
The coach decided to contest the allegations, however, and 
draw, but then got nervous," said Louderback. "She just has to play the big tournaments to where those matches don't bother her at all." 
"It was the hardest tourna­ment I've been to. It's a great event and is run very well. It's always tough to play people in the top ten," said Harris. "I know I shouldn't let it get to me. I had such a big win and then had a letdown, but overall, I think I'm playing well. I just need to stay calm." 
Next up for the Irish will be the Rolex Regionals at Madison, Wis., from Oct. 31-Nov. 3. The Irish will be sending five singles players and two doubles teams to the 28-team competition. Harris is the second seed, with Faustmann and Schwab seeded in the five through eight group. Terri Vitale and Lisa Tholen are also in the singles draw. Faustmann and Tholen are the second-seeded doubles team, and Schwab and Vitale will also be competing at doubles. 
At the Rolex, the first and second place singles players and the winning doubles team all receive automatic invitations to the National Indoor Championships in Minnesota next February. 
Last year, the Irish performed the existence of the tapes were leaked to the news media. 
"I sought an informal disposi­tion of this," Booke said. "We had hoped for a private resolu­tion without public disclosure." 
Booke said he ordered the videotaping after conferring with other university officials. It was actually conducted by the school's police department, which had an officer tape the class from an air conditioning duct in the school's north gym. 
"We attempted to go in the gym on several occasions and found the door locked, so we decided to do it this way," he said. "Physical education classes are not typically con­ducted behind closed doors." 
well at the Regionals, holding down three of the four semifinalist spots, with Tracy Barton finishing second. 
Barton, the lrish' top-singles player and the tournament's top seed, pulled out of the com­petition because of a shoulder injury. Barton has been resting most of the fall to insure a healthy spring season, and ag­gravated the injury while prac­ticing last week. 
"I practiced all week and then I couldn't serve at all," said Barton. "The shoulder is sore. Jay (Louderback) and I talked, and I realized than the individ­ual part is not as big as the team part. Individual competi­tion has to go behind the team. It's getting frustrating-just when things were starting to fall together, the shoulder started hurting. Last year (at Rolex) I came in second, and I was hoping to have a shot at winning it this year, so this is kind of a letdown. Hopefully this will help the team in the long run." 
+
American 
Red Cross 

SINCE 1949 

FREE FLU SHOTS 
Again this year the University is offering FREE flu shots to all Notre Dame students, faculty, staff and retirees. We urge you to take advantage of this opportunity to protect your health. 
The schedule: 
LOCATIONS: Library Concourse LaFortune, O'Hara Lounge 

DATES: October 29 & 30 (both locations) October 31 (LaFortune oo..W 
TIMES: I 0:00am-6:00pm 

BE SURE TO BRING YOUR I.D. 
Offered by University Health Services with the support of Student Affairs and Human Resources. 
CHit Brandl, Great Slrvlcl, Grat Prtca, Rlntall AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTAlS 
Mon -Thur 11·7 pm Fri 11-6 pm 220 W Marion Sat 10-4 pm 13!< S M1chigan 
SPECIALISTS IN GUR'AR & BASS REPAIRS/ 
START OFF HOMECOMING WEEK WITH: 
ffi!AJ©~uW ~Wu[}{]©~o~ 
QruTS'I 1*0~ 'I1lf£ 1lOL~ (j~Yl!L 
TONIGHT AT MONTGOMERY THEATER.. LAFORTUNE SHOWS AT 7 .. 9 & 11 P.M. ADMISSION: $2 
PRESENTED HV: THE MEDIEVAL CLUD 
THE I<NIDHTS 'n'HO St'o'r' "r£E" lrtYITE 't'a.J TO BRit{) SHFUBEERV 
-

page 1b 1ne uoserver vveanesaay, uctooer JU, 1~~1 
... Miller wants to return to football team 
Bowl matchups furthest thing from Lou Holtz's mind 


By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
Nearly two months ago, Notre Dame watched the player who could have been the successor to the Raghib "Rocket" Ismail make his fastest move of the season-back home to Houston. 
Michael Miller, the freshman return specialist and wide re­ceiver who was lauded as the heir apparent to the Rocket, decided to leave South Bend for the University of Houston. 
However Miller has had a change of heart, and this week expressed an interest in return­ing to play in the house that Rockne built. 
When asked about Miller's status, Irish head coach Lou Holtz unfolded a piece of paper and began to read. 
"I prefer not to respond to a question pertaining to Michael Miller," read Holtz. "The case has been turned over to the Southwest Conference which administers a national letter of intent. It is my understanding that they will determine whether or not Michael is a full-time or part-time student. That determination will have a bearing on his remaining eligi­bility... 
Holtz, at his weekly telecon­ference, reacted similarly to questions of Notre Dame's place in the journalistic saga that is "the bowl picture." 
"There's talk about us playing Florida State or Miami-that doesn't really excite me," said Holtz. "We would like to go to a bowl game, would like to go to the bowl game of our choice. We feel that the only way that any dream we have can become a reality can only transpire in a bowl game. 
"But the only chance we have is just to keep winning. And so we really don't address the bowls, we don't address the polls. I just know that if we win enough games we're gonna go and before a decision is made, Father Beauchamp and Dick Rosenthal will talk to me. Other than that I really don't give it an awful lot of thought. I feel that if we win this football game, we will be playing in a bowl game." 
Bryant Young 
the series with Navy. 
"That is not my decision [to 
continue the series], it's the de­
cision of the Naval Academy 
and Notre Dame," said Holtz. 
"It's my understanding that the 
Naval Academy desires to play 
Notre Dame, but I can't com­
ment on that. There were some 
other teams that have had very, 
very good winning streaks. As a 
matter of fact, when I was at 
Arkansas we had beaten Texas 
Christian 26 times in a row, and 
four or five times since I'd been 
at Arkansas. And you know a 
funny thing happened on the 
way to the bank. We lost to TCU 
and it just absolutely disrupted 
our season. 
"Whenever you have a sched­
ule, not everybody's going to be in the top ten in the country when you play them. Navy is our opponent this week and we're gonna make our best preparation we can and I promise you this, when you talk about killing a fly with an axe, whatever weapons we have we're going to bring to the game and there is no way we are going to look past this to our next opponent. No way possible." 

The only serious injury the Irish incurred against Southern Cal was the loss of Justin Hall. 
Hall suffered a broken toe in the first quarter when Mirko Jurkovic stepped on his foot. Hall is listed as fifty percent likely to play against Navy. 
Tony Smith and Pete Bereich will return to action against the Midshipmen, while Greg Davis-who went down in Notre Dame's win over Stanford-may see action against Tennessee in the final home game of the season for the Irish. Bryant Young, who has told Holtz that he will re­turn to face the Volunteers, is predicted by doctors to be ready for action by the Hawaii game. 
Tony Rice, quarterback of Notre Dame's 1988 National Championship team, was one of 200 players who participated in an invitation-only tryout camp for the new Professional Spring Football League (PSFL). 
The camp, which was held at Georgia Tech's Bobby Dodd Stadium in Atlanta October 19 and 20. is to be the first stage of the league's player selection 
process. Two more tryouts-to be supervised by PSFL Director of Football Operations Walt Michaels (former New York Jets head coach)-will be held before a territorial player draft is held in January. 
"The quality, determination 
and enthusiasm that was dis­
played by these young men was 
very impressive," said 
.----------------------­
HAPPY zoth BIRTHDAY COLLEEN DANAHER 
LOVE 
.Mom, Dad and Patrick 

The Department of :Romance Lan9u.ages and. Li..teratures 
will give departmental placement exams for students who have not taken any previous placement c.\am 111 French or Spanish and '.vho are not currently enrolled in a Romance Language sequence. Sign up for the exam in the Language Resource Center office. 20 I O'Shaughnessy Hall, by Friday, November 1 atS p.m. You must bring your i.d. with you to enter the exam room. Exams are scheduled in the Language Resource Center Auxiliary Lab, 250 O'Shag, as follows: Monday, November 4. French: 8:30-10:00 a.m. and 10:30 a.m.-noon Spanish: I :30-3:00 p.m. and 3:30-5:00 r m . Tuesday, November 5. Spanish: R:30-IO:OO a.m. and HUO a.m.-noon French: I :30-3:00 p.m. and 3:30-5:00 p.m. 
Exemption forms and test scores will be available Monday, November 11, in the departmental office, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

SPORTS BRIEFS 

•The 
Notre Dame Ski team/club will have a very important meeting Thursday, October 31 at 7 p.m. in Montegomery Theatre in LaFortune. It's Halloween night so meeting will be short! Questions, call Chris 277-7089. 

•The 
Saint Mary's soccer team lost to Kalamazoo College 3-1 in a home game Wedenesday afternoon. Details will apppear in Thursday's Observer. 

•A 
women's safety and self-defense course beginning Wednesday November 6 is being offered by Recsports. The objective of the course is to expose women to basic self-defense techniques as used in real-life crisis situations. Basic karate, judo, and wrestling will be introduced as well as strategies for avoiding dangerous situations and dealing with threatening circumstances. Class meets 12 times on Monday and Wednesday nights from 7 to 8:15p.m. 

•ND/SMC 
Field Hockey will have practice at 9 in Loftus tonight. Questions, call Suzanne at 283-2687. 

•The 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be having a guest entertainer tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. Bring a friend and enjoy Mark Pope's "music with a message." All are welcome. For information on FCA, call Mark Zoia at 283-1586. 

•Women's 
off-campus football will practice today and Thursday at 5 p.m. at Stepan Field. 


to be a very competitive football league. When I was with the Generals in the USFL, I coached guys like Herschel Walker and Doug Flutie who took advantage of a few years of hard work to become better and more seasoned athletes. I feel the PSFL will offer the same opportunity to many 
talented young players like the ones we saw in Atlanta." 
The ten team league will em­ploy 450 players (45 per team), who are to be signed to con­tracts when the league begins 


We're just minutes from Notre Dame, Unive:sit)' Par:: ~:.:.il, the toll ;oa:l and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community wi~: spaciouo;, well-kept grounds has a lot of appeal to the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­gency maintenance service ... and we have an activities program that includes free aerobics classes, social functions. team sports and much, 
much more. If you're looking for the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we'll show you l'Ornfortable, affordable apartment living I 
E'flcler.cl£= from $260 1-E:eclrooms from $275 2-Be1rooms from $335 
272-1880 
HEY!!! 

Arts and Letters majors What are you going to do with your life? 
Find out what a liberal arts major has to offer the business world. 
Arts & Letters Business Society Wednesday, October 30 at 7pm room 220 Hayes-Healy sophomores, juniors, and seniors especially encouraged! 
play February 29, 1992 in ten cities across the United States. The teams will play a 16-game regular season, with the cham­pionship game to be held dur­ing the Fourth of July weekend. 
The league will be split into East and West markets, with Boston. Miami-Ft. Lauderdale, Tampa Bay, Columbia, S.C. and one as yet unannounced team playing in the East. The West markets include Little Rock. Ark., Albuquerque, N.M., Las Vegas. Salt Lake City. and Portland, Ore. 
~ ~ 

... 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----­
vveanesaay, uctooer JU, Jl:1l:11 1 he uoserver 
Hockey opens with split vs. Air Force 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Editor 
Before the 1991 hockflY sea­son began, Notre Dame coach Hie Schafer openly spoke of the team's 011ed for improvement on the power play. 
Aftnr the Irish split a season­opening twinbill against the Air Forcn Academy in Colorado Springs, (losing 8-3 and win­ning 5-3) Schafer openly spoke of the tnam's need for im­provement on the power play. 
"Wn still need to spend some time on our power play," said Schafer. "It has to be much mortl effective than what it was. But wn've always had good games with Air Force. I thought that we playHd reasonably well for five of six periods last wenkend." 
Tlw Irish power play sput­tnrnd in tlw thin mountain air, as Notre Dame could only con­vert on two of 12 attnmpts (16 pnrennt). The Air Force, on the other hand, scored on five of 14 attnrnpts (35 percent). In the two games, the Irish were pe­nalized 23 times for 57 minutes, while the Faleons were whistled 19 times for 38 minutes. 
"I was really disappointed after Friday night's game," said Schafer of the 8-3 Falcon triumph. "We had the lead, and it wasn't like we were a much stronger, but we had the lead. We weren't of the mindset to go and complete it in the third pe­riod. 
"Embarrassingly, we had six goals scored against us in the third period, largely because of Air Force's discipline in con­verting power plays. But a bright spot was the play of our backup goalies, Carl Picconato 
and Brent Lothrop."  
Piccanato,  a  junior  from  
Stevens  Point,  Wis.,  and  
Lothrop,  a  freshman  from  

Lakeville, MN, were pressed into action after a preseason hand injury to Irish starter Greg Louder, a sophomore from Acton, Mass. Louder was the team MVP in 1990, starting all 33 games. Picconato registered 28 saves, while Lothrop piled up 22. 
The Irish kept their focus in game two, however, skating to a 5-3 victory. 
"Saturday night was a differ­ent story," said Schafer. "We played a disciplined game, we had fewer penalties and every­body played well. 1\vo freshmen scored goals for us and Lou Zadra also scored two goals. Lothrop performed admirably, especially considering that he didn't see much action prior to that. 

"It was a sweet victory be­cause all that's said about playing at those high altitudes is true. The altitude takes its toll at that fast-pace of hockey." 
Zadra, who also scored one goal in the Irish loss, made his way into every statistical cate­gory last weekend, with three total goals (one empty-net, one power play, one shorthanded), two assists and two penalties. The senior has scored a goal in six consecutive games (three short of the record of nine, held by Dave Poulin, who is now a Boston Bruin) and has scored a point in the last eleven games (John Noble set the record of 23 games in 1970-71). 
The victory was somewhat bittersweet, however, as senior center David Bankoske suffered a broken arm. 
"We did lose Bankoske for an indefinite period," said Schafer, "and he will meet with a doctor Monday to see if he needs surgery." 
page 11 


The Observer/ScoH McCann Senior Dave Bankoske suffered a broken arm in Notre Dame's second game against Air Force. 1:3ankoske has led the Irish in points for the last three years. 
Despite the loss of Bankoske, team," noted Schafer. "With or Schafer's hopes for the season without Bankoske, they realize were not dimmed, nor were his that they have to provide lead­expectations of his team. ership, and that everyone on 
"I think that our other up­the team has to play well. To perclassmen realize that they date, they've done well in his are an important part of the absence." 
Smith says delayed steal caused him to look at plate, slow down 
PIIIIAI>ELPIIIA (AP)-Lonnie Smith admits it was his mistake that he failed to seore from first on Terry Pendleton's long eighth-inning double in the seventh game of the World Series. 
A run would likely have given the ehampionship to his Atlanta BravtlS, who lost 1-0 to the Minnesota Twins in the 10th innin~. 
media immediately after the loss, but he later told a Philadelphia Inquirer columnist he was faked out by the 1\vins' infield. 
"On the ball Terry hit, if I'd taken the time to take one look, that could have been the differ­ence," Smith told the columnist, who was in Minneapolis for the game. "Evidently, they all seem to think if I had picked the ball 

"It happened. My mistake." 
Smith, who was running on the pitch, said he didn't look to the plate as Pendleton swung, but saw second baseman Chuck Knoblauch appear to field a grounder and throw to short­stop Greg Gagne. 
It was all a fake. The ball was sailing toward the wall in left center. Smith stopped after where the ball was and re­sumed running. But the delay forced him to stop at third. 
"Evidently, what nobody re­alizes, I was going with the pitch on a delayed steal," Smith said. "I got about halfway and I heard the sound of the bat. I made the mistake of not looking in when I started running. I just assumed that the ball would be hit on the ground." 
Gladden and center fielder Kirby Puckett were sprinting desperately toward Pendleton's long drive. 
"Before I had a chance to look back, I saw the two infielders trying to glove something," Smith said. 
"You know, if I saw the ball off the bat, there's a good chance I could have scored. But I didn't see it. I didn't take that look in. 

Saint Mary's Students are going Into the Streets... 
SIGN UP FOR "INTO THE STREETS" ... SEE HOW YOU CAN 
CON~UTETOYOURCOMMUNITY 
WEDNFSDA Y, OCTOBER 30, 6-8 p.m. LEMANS LOBBY 
On October 30th, Saint Mary's students wiU have an opportunity to learn about community service volunteer opportunities here in South Bend From 6-8 p.m Saint Mary's students can sign up to participate in a "trial" volunteer experiencefor the week ofNovember 18-21 in which they wiU 
volunteer and learn about a particular service agency and what volunteers there do. 
Longer term volunteer coordination and internships wiU be made availablefollowing the Into the Streets experience. 

For more information, please call the SURV Center at 284-5368 or Sharon Zint, Student Volunteer Coordinator at 284-5130. 
Community Agencies Participating in "Into The Streets• 

Legal Services Logan Center Community Resource Center Adult Education Girl Scouts 5 Holy Cross Health Centers Common Cause Michiana Community Hospital United Way Children's Dispensary Mishawaka Family & Children's Center Domestic Relations 
YWCA 

Portage Manor ParkviewJuvenile Center 
..

Campfire Boys & Girls St. Joseph Hospital Christ Child CorviUa Northern Indiana Development Center 

----~­
page 1tj 1ne uoserver vveanesaay, ucmoer JU, 1!::1!::11 
20th-ranked Louisville up next for Irish volleyball 
By JASON KELLY The Irish beat Louisville in the 
November 6th match against know that if we can knock them Sports Writer Big Four Classic in September. Loyola remaining on the con­off it will improve our ranking." Despite knocking off the ference slate, the Irish have a That ranking has already im­
With the NCAA tournament Cardinals earlier this season, 4-0 record and are in the proved considerably after the out of the picture, the Notre the Irish know they have to driver's seat for the top seed in Irish broke out of a mid-season Dame volleyball team now has continue to improve their skills the MCC tournament. The win­slump and won five of their last their sights set on the National to compete with the nation's top ner of the MCC tourney earns six, with the only loss coming in Invitational Volleyball teams. an automatic bid to the NIVC. a tough four game match Championships. "We have to concentrate on against 15th-ranked Illinois. Before thinking about post­our blocking," commented ju­They won't be caught looking 
season play, however, the Irish nior Jessica Fiebelkorn, "and ahead, however, because non­Only four games remain on have to get past 20th-ranked we also have to improve our conference wins against the Irish slate before the MCC Louisville tonight at 7 p.m. at passing and open up the mid­Jessica Fiebelkorn Louisville, Toledo and Bowling championships get underway in 
the JACC.. dle." Green will give the team a great Indianapolis on November 15th. If they can make the deal of respect heading into the After tonight's match against
Green on a winning note. 

Louisville may boast a top 20 necessary adjustments, the The Irish have done nothing post-season. Louisville, the Irish travel to ranking, but the Irish have won Irish are confident that they can but win this season in the "We beat Louisville earlier in Ohio this weekend to face five of their last six games, in­knock off Louisville again and Midwestern Collegiate the season and they're going to Toledo and Bowling Green cluding their last three in a row, head into this weekend's Conference. With only a come in with revenge on their before the season-ending to improve their record to 13-8. matches at Toledo and Bowling minds," Fiebelkorn noted. "We showdown against Loyola. 
Twins fans brave hailstorm to honor boys of summer in two parades 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -World Series games -just as many of the Twins and their 63,000 tickets to the rally sold the loudest cheers went to Enduring wintry weather to they did four years ago when wives covered their legs with 
out within hours Monday. with Kirby Puckett and Gene Larkin 
" cheer their boys of summer, an they won their last champi­blankets. the $1 admission fee to be do­-stars of Games 6 and 7. re­estimated 240,000 fans lined onship. "It rained a little right when 
nated to charity. spectively -and hometown 
Twin Cities streets Tuesday as "I think that most of us love we got here. but it could have Along the parades and inside, heroes Morris and Hrbek. the world champion Minnesota you guys as much as you love been below zero for all I care," Twins paraded through confetti us," said Kent Hrbek, a native said Todd Wetzel, a Mankato and streamers to a rally in their of nearby Bloomington and one State University student. "I home sweet Metrodome. of seven holdovers from the skipped all my college classes to 
A cavalcade of pickup trucks Twins' 1987 championship be here." escorted by police on foot car­team. In Minneapolis, fans cheered ried Twins stars Jack Morris, "I can't wait 'til 1995," said the parade from rooftops, Kirby Puckett, manager Tom 16-year-old Jeff Greenwood, parking ramps and the bell Halloween Bash Kelly and the rest of the team who said he cut school in sub­tower of the Basilica of St. on two 90-minute parades in St. urban Minnetonka to watch the Mary. near the start of the pa­Paul and Minneapolis. Minneapolis parade. "Every rade route. at Senior Bar 
Many in the sidewalk crowds four years. they win it." A total of 240,000 fans lined waved the white Homer Official estimates of this year's the parade route in the two ci­Hankies that have symbolized crowds fell far short of the ties, Minneapolis Police Lt. Greg Costume Contest the Twins' championship drives. 500,000 or so people who Hestness said. He described the The procession came to a halt jammed the streets to cheer the crowds as "good-natured" and liThe Generics" live at times as fans surged into the Twins four years ago. One fac­said there were no arrests or streets to exchange handshakes tor may have been tempera­reports of damage. Free Cups to First 100 Peopleand "high fives" with players. tures hovering in the mid-30s The parade wound toward a 
At the Dome, players got a throughout the day and a brief raucous victory rally at the chance to thank the fans for hailstorm greeting the start of Dome, where the Twins de­Oct. 31 9 pm • 2 am making the home-field advan­the Minneapolis parade. feated the Atlanta Braves on tage almost insurmountable. Fans wrapped themselves in Sunday night to win baseball's $2 Donation to Benefit Sr. Formal The Twins won all four home blankets and heavy coats, and world championship. The 
,,~,~~'~:i).QIC"''~MC~',_~,,_.~,,_•:;,,.:X,,_~.MC~)i~IN:~c~~'~MC~',_<,,_~,,_<,)•~:MC"''~'~~"''~"')ac<:)iQIC<,,_~,,_<,,.X,.~,~·~~1 
I Autograph Party 1I Featuring i 
I I·. 
DICK VITAl,£ 1 ~ 
~ I 

I i
I Who Will Be iI Autographing i i His New Bok I 
I iI 8 The inside scoop on the NCAA 1~ from America's #I S t N • d ~
2 
... i college hoops junkie a • OV• ..,n I 
II DICK ~:z:oopm to z:oopm I 1 

. . 
with DickWeiss Notre Dame BookstoreI 
l.~,,.<~>.aK·:X~~i).QIC'{?~~~~---,._.,~~~~,~~'~>~,~~~,_,,.:x,~'~'·~~~~~"~~,~~ 

. 

Wednesday, October 30, 1991 The Observer page 19 

JAY HOSLER 
" 


thriller 46 Emperor or pianist

CASINO NIGII,1,  
Untie.-the Dome  
[)ate: Nvyember 1, 1991 (durine !Enjoy the games of  
JlarentsT Weekend) roo.nneue. Mmckjaclk. crmJPis,  
West Wine vf Svuth [)inine tiall mni!ll more!!  
Time: S JlM -11 JlM  
Lf~[E[E A()MISSI()~ f()~  
SJU()E~TS AN() VA~ENTS  STUDENT UNION BOAR[)  


LECTURES 
Wednesday 
4:15 p.m. Lecture: "Privatization and the Transition from Planned to Market Economies: Some Thoughts About Germany 1991," Dieter Bos, University of Bonn, Germany, Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Committee for European Studies, Hesburgh program in public service, departments of economics, government, and international studies, and ISLA. 
4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "The Preparation Problem," Linda Wessels, Indiana University. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by physics department. 
7 p.m. Lecture: "Experiences Digging in Jerusalem," Bill Cash. Room 105 Science Hall, Saint Mary's. Sponsored by Saint Mary's Anthropology Club. 
7 p.m. Lecture: "Discussion of CPA Exam & Current Events," Bill Mack. Room 304 Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's. Sponsored by Saint Mary's Accounting Club. 
MENU 
NOTRE DAME Stir Fry Beef & Green Peppers Chicken Pot Pie Fettucini Alfredo 
SAINT MARY'S 
Fried Chicken Spaghetti w/Sauce Western Cheese Souffie Deli Bar 
CROSSWORD 
<0 Edward Julius Collegiate CW8711 
ACROSS 
2D Wire measure 34 -section, in 47 Tennis call 
21 Actor John -math 48 Attacks
Jack of nursery 
23 Cabs 36 Defeat soundly 50 Was victorious
rhyme 
24 German port 39 South Pacific 51 Chicago newspaper
Food with lox 
25 Paint substance kingdom 53 Following closely
River adjacent to 
27 -mother behind
Rutgers College 
28 Small brown birds 40 "L'etat, c'est 55 Certain Asians
Branch of the 
29 Capital of Iran " 56 Bitter conflicts
military 
31 Part of the body 41 Sample TV show 57 Hinder
Mouthlike opening 
32 No one specified 43 Burl -5B Passover dinner
City in Texas 
(abbr.) 44 VP Aaron, and

Sweet potato 
33 Movie sci -fi family
Whirled around on 
one foot 
DOWN 

1 Former Italian 
president 2 Man or monkey 3 Hilly region of 
Morocco 4 "Take -from me" 5 Unspoken, but 
understood 6 "-in Arms" 7 Like the Gobi 8 Actor Gerard 9 Foes 
10 Permissive 11 Kingly 12 From Carson City13 Morning, in 
Marseilles 14 Disposes of 19 Draft animals 22 Puts up a picture
again 24 Soviet government26 City in Ohio 28 Young anima1 30 Mythical bird 31 -Guevara 33 Desires, as for 
knowledge 34-wagon35 Former 36 Angry 37 Shad-like fish 38 Profession of 
TV's "Quincy" 39 Slopes40 Backless slippers 42 Ice device 44 Mistake 45 Data, for short 4B Trumpet attachment 49 "Your majesty" 52 Unit of computer 
information 54 Jar oart 
r-------------------~ 
Dame's seven game winning streak last week. Tonight the Broncos' top returning scorer Irish look to stop the Broncos, a Nick Brown. Brown led 
'­

Ann Bradshaw won at fifth singles as the Irish won their fourth straight MCC Championship. Notre Dame went undefeated in all nine positions. 

 
Sports page 20 Wednesday, October 30, 199  
Irish women's soccer seeks 9-0-0 mark at Alumni 13th-ranked squad hosts Western Michigan today Notre Dame record, and threeBy MIKE SCRUDATO assists. The last three gamesSports Writer the Notre Dame attack has been bolstered by a lineupThe 13th-ranked Notre Dame switch by Petrucelli, which haswomen's soccer team will look tri-captain Susie Zilvitis playing to continue its dominance at midfield and Alison Lesterhome when the Irish host the moving up to forward.Wright State Raiders today at 3 p.m. at Alumni Field. Thus far, it has worked outThe Irish, playing in their fi­extremely well, as the Irishnal home contest of the season, have scored ten goals since the are an unblemished 8-0-0 in Stephanie Porter switch, and Zilvitis and Lesterhome games. each have scored game­A win today would give Notre beat them." winning goals. Zilvitis's cameDame its first ever perfect The Raiders attack is led by in the 2-0 overtime win overrecord at home. In 1988, the JoAnne Paxton, who has scored Providence, while Lester scored program~s first year, only a 1-1 nine goals and two assists this the game-winner in Sunday's 2­tie with St. Mary's kept the season. The strength of the 1 triumph against Xavier. Irish from perfection, as they Wright State squad is its de­The Irish defense, which hasfinished 7-0-1 at home. fense, which has seven held opponents to 0.60 goalsWright State enters today's shutouts on the year. Raider per game, will be attempting to game with a 9-4-1 record that goalkeeper Leigh Ann Brown tie the school record of 11includes a win over Xavier, a sports a 0. 79 goals against shutouts in a season which wasteam which gave Notre Dame a average in her first year of set in 1990. lot of trouble in Sunday's 2-1 seeing playing time. Also, with three games re­Irish victory. The Irish offense will severely maining, this year's squad has"Wright State is a very good challenge Brown. It is led by an opportunity to tie the Notreteam, and they are going to Stephanie Porter, who leads the Dame record for most wins in a come here to play," Irish coach The Observer/ Peter-Jay Pultorak Midwestern Collegiate season. The record was set bChris Petrucelli said, "We are Captain Marianne Giolitto and the Irish look to push their home record Conference with 16 goals, a last season's 16-3-1 squad. going to have to play well to to 9-0-0 today against Western Michigan. Broncos, unbeaten in last seven games, present test for men By JASON KELLY team that has a seven game attack, however, the Irish are against Kentucky. Sports Writer winning streak. not planning any changes on ei­"We're not looking past these Offense was a key in wins ther side of the ball. games," Dillman noted. "We After a completing a tough over DePaul and Georgetown "We just have to keep doing know it's important to get a fall break road trip with a 2-1-1 last week. The front line will what we've been doing and good tempo going and go into record, the Notre Dame men's have to come through again stick to our game plan," com­the tournament on a winning soccer team returns home tonight if the Irish hope to get mented junior Brendan note." tonight to face streaking back on the winning track. Dillman. "They have a seven With the play of the freshman Western Michigan. Western Michigan goalie Matt game winning streak going and dominating in the last several~ A loss to eighth-ranked South Borkowski recorded a 0.68 ..lr· we don't want to attribute to games, the Irish are peaking at Carolina and a tie against goals against average in 1990 their success." the right time. Wins against Adelphi were the only and leads the stingy Bronco de­As the regular season winds quality opponents Western blemishes as the Irish improved fense once again this season. Brendan Dillman to a close and the Midwest Michigan and Kentucky to their record to 9-4-2. ' Collegiate Conference tourna­round out the season would South Carolina ended Notre Defensively, the Irish will ment approaches, the Irish give the Irish a lot of momen­Western Michigan's offensivehave their hands full with the  

have to guard against a letdown tum heading into the confer­
attack last year with 14 points 
tonight and in the regular ence tournament, which opens
on six goals and two assists. 
season finale Sunday afternoon November 7th in Indianapolis. 
Despite the powerful Bronco 
Women's tennis sweeps MCCs 
Harris reaches second round at All American tourney 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 

Five women's tennis teams descended on the Eck Tennis Pavilion the weekend of Oct. 19-20 for the Midwest Collegiate Conference Championships, and Notre Dame put on such an overpowering display of tennis that no one else ever had a chance. 
The Irish were seeded first in every single flight, and walked away with all nine titles, six in singles and three in doubles, while hardly being challenged by the likes of Xavier, Butler, Dayton, and Evansville. ND scored a perfect 54 points to claim their fourth-straight team title, with Xavier (28), Evansville (27), Butler (20), and Dayton (15) far behind. 
Also over break, the Irish were represented in the All­American tournament in Los Angeles. playing against the top competition in the country. Notre Dame made a strong showing which should attract some attention. 
In MCC singles, none of the Irish players lost a set in the tournament. At first singles, freshman Laura Schwab breezed past Catherine Smith of Butler 6-3, 6-1 and Lisa Ennis of Xavier 6-0, 6-2 to claim the crown. Christy Faustmann en­joyed an even easier run, recording two 6-0, 6-0 shutouts over Jennifer Grimm of Butler and Jennifer Understahl of Evansville for the second sin­gles title. 
At number-three singles, Lisa Tholen swept past Cackie Fenwick of Xavier, 6-4, 6-2 and then overpowered Jama Schitter of Butler 6-2, 6-1 for the title. Terri Vitale claimed the fourth-singles crown with a 6-2, 6-1 victory over Colleen Duffy of Xavier after defeating Janell Ellis of Evansville 6-0, 6­2. 
Ann Bradshaw won fifth sin­gles, taking Kathy Jahnke of Xavier 6-0, 6-1, and then de­feating Katie Herrick of Dayton 6-2, 6-0 in the final. Rounding out the singles flights, Kristy Doran beat Brandi Harris of Butler 6-2, 6-0 and then blanked Carrie Creighton of Xavier 6-0, 6-0. 
"I though we played ex­tremely well," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. "It was good to see than no one messed around. They just went out and played as hard as they could, and didn't want to let anyone in any match. 
If you're supposed to win, then there is more pressure that you've got to play under. All our girls were seeded first, so they all had to play under pressure. They came through 

and it will help them in the long run." In doubles, the Irish were equally impressive. 
Playing first doubles, Tholen and Eniko Bende claimed the championship by way of a hard-fought 6-1. 3-6, 6-0 battle I with Ennis and Jenny Lopez of Xavier. Doran and Vitale breezed through the second­doubles flight, taking the title match 6-3, 6-0 over Fenwick and Jahnke of Xavier. 
Bradshaw and Catherine McGinley were no less than overpowering at third doubles, dropping only one game in four sets en route to a 6-1, 6-0 title­game victory over Jennifer DeBosch and Robin Royster of Evansville. 
"Our final match was pretty close," said Bende. "We let up in the second set and had a let­down, but pulled it out in the end. Everyone else had a pretty easy time. It would have been better if we were put to the test on the whole. There is pressure, since there is a long­standing record of success for us in the MCCs. and no one wants to break the string. However, once you get on the court, you know what you have to do." 
"We really dominated in the doubles flights," said Louderback. "I though we 
see TENNIS/page 15 




