


VOL XXIII N0.120 THURSDAY, APRIL 4, 1991 --· THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Blanco pledges service to students in address 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN which involves social interac­student administration hopes to tion and projects with peer tackle include research into the
Assistant News Editor 

guidance and counseling; and a quality of undergraduate continuation of the wFred line," education; student representa­Out with the old and in with 
a telephone number students tion on the duLac revisionthe new was the theme of the can use to voice their campus committee; cooperation with
student body address held 

praises and criticisms. the South Bend City Govern­
Wednesday by the newly-in­

The second item on the ment in regards to off-campus
stalled student government 

Blanco-Florenzo agenda is to attacks; and the overall studentpresident and vice-president, 
increase student input to the attitude towards the S.U.F.R.
Joe Blanco and Dave Fiorenza. 

administration. Blanco sug­movement.
After accepting the presiden­gested that a continued effort to Pasin and Tombar opened the tial gavel from former student 

follow up on the board of evening's address with words of
leaders, Rob Pasin and Fred 

trustees reports will be the thanks, but did not relinquish
Tombar, Blanco outlined his 

route the new student adminis­their titles until they passed on
agenda for the 1991-1992 

tration will take to make im­their words of wisdom. 
school year. 

provements in this area. Pasin told new leaders toAccording to Blanco, there Blanco concluded his agenda wexpect intense highs and in­
are three main areas that he 

in saying that he wants to in­tense lows." But if asked to ac­hopes his administration will be crease campus involvement in cept the role of president again, able to address. 
world issues. wNotre Dame is Pasin said he wwould in a unique and saddled with a re­minute."
First is the area of service to sponsibility to the world," said Tombar's closing remarksthe student body. wStudent 

Blanco. were a plea to all students togovernment must deal with in­He and Fiorenza plan to pro­have an open-mind towards thedividual concerns," said Blanco. 
pose various national and in­S.U.F.R. organization. Blancolie and Fiorenza hope to Im­
ternational programs to the said he hopes to refocus stu­
plement this plan of student 

University, as well as to raise dents on the message of theservice through an emphasis on funds for the lecture series that S.U.F.R coalition and clear up
student life; further develop­

Pasin and Tombar established. misinformed judgements held
ment of a pilot gold program 

Additional areas that the new by students of the organization. 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey

Singin' In the Spring 
"The Bone Forest" entertains students with music in the fieldhouse mall Wednesday afternoon. Warm temperatures brought many students outdoors to enjoy the benefits spring weather offers. 
Thief of ND rare books to assist in returns 
By DAVID KINNEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Freedom of speech and of academics is being threatened on college campuses across the nation, at the cost of the mis­sion of the university to teach the truth, according to Charles Sykes, author of wThe Hollow Men: Politics and Corruption in Higher Education." 
"We have so lost the idea of what education should be," said Sykes during a lecture Wednesday. Schools currently support an widea of scholarship whose goal is not . . . to weigh ideas, but to advance political ideas." 
The administrations of many universities and colleges are curtailing students' freedom of speech in attempts to fight racism, sexism, and other types of discrimination on campuses, according to Sykes. 
The politicalization of cur­riculum has also begun to de­velop, diminishing the concept of a true liberal arts education. This wdogmatic, absolute un­derstanding of human experi­ence" does not allow for the discussion of the problems of cultural diversity, he said. 
Through the speech codes, expulsions, and other sanc­tions, universities are sweeping the problems inherent in a di­verse student body under the rug instead of solving them through debate. 
He cited a variety of examples of this problem: 

• 
University of Connecticut passed a sweeping resolution banning everything from racial epithets to the obvious exclu­sion of people from conversa­tions and inappropriate laugh­ing. 


• 
University of Michigan re­sorted to the distribution of a pamphlet to inform students about the speech code. One could not debate or even talk 


about Issues involving even th1 
most subtle of racism or sex 
ism. 
Michigan's speech code wa: 
later declared a violation of th1 
First Amendment by tht 
Supreme Court. 
• A social worker was prohib­ited from beginning a program to help homosexuals convert to heterosexual behavior. The administration said that this Is a speech crime; the university must embrace homosexuals on campus rather than attempt to 
see SYKES I page 4 


Speaker addresses 
.


sex1ssues 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
News Writer 
Issues addressed In abortion, 
pornography, and surrogacy 
debates are closely linked by 
problems of sex discrimination 
and equality rather than by 
questions of personal choice or 
privacy, said Cass Sunstein, a 
professor from the University of 
Chicago's Law School. 
In a lecture yesterday titled wAbortion, Pornography and Surrogacy Arrangements," Sunsteln explained that the though the three debates are usually separated in public dis­cussion, he "think[s] they have an enormous amount to do with each other." 

Each of these debates are dominated by two different po­sitions, one libertarian and the other traditionalist, which cap­ture the common views of the American public, according to Sunstein. 
see ABORTION/ page 4 
DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) ­Convicted rare book thief Stephen Blumberg will soon be reunited with his collection as authorities try to match thou­sands of stolen books, some from Notre Dame's Libraries, with their owners 
"It's going to happen," said Linda Reade, the assistant U.S. District Attorney who prose­cuted the case. 
She said she did not know when Blumberg, whom she de­scribed as a "thief of historic proportions," would be taken to the Omaha, Neb., warehouse where FBI agents have been trying to Inventory the books. The task is arduous because Blumberg obliterated most of the identifying marks. 
She and one of Blumberg's attorneys, Hay Hosenberg, said the visit would happen before Blumberg is sentenced. Sentencing was originally set for April 26 but both sides will request a delay. 
On Jan. 30, Blumberg, 42, was convicted of four theft-re­lated counts, including one of possessing 21 ;000 stolen rare books from hundreds of li­braries across the country and Canada. Some of the volumes came from Notre Dame. 
The other charges dealt with stolen antique windows and musical instruments. 

When he was convicted, Reade resisted a defense re­quest to allow Blumberg to see the books, saying she'd rather give him a list of books that he could identify while in jail. 
She said Blumberg has re­ceived a list and has not been helpful so far. 

"We have requested certain things, but there has been no response," she said. She de­clined to be specific. Rosenberg also declined comment. 
Blumberg faces up to 35 years in prison and a maximum fine of $1 million. Neither at­torney would discuss sentencing recommendations Wednesday, although Reade told reporters in January that Blumberg deserved a long stay in prison. 
"In many ways he is a more hardened criminal than many others I have come across," she said at the time. 
Federal Judge Harold Vietor denied appeal bond and Blum­berg was taken to the Cass County Jail in Atlantic. An offi­cial at the sheriffs office said Blumberg has posed no prob­lem at the jail. 
In the trial, Blumberg pleaded innocent by reason of insanity, with Hosenberg saying the de­fendant was absorbed by Victo­rian history and "lived in a time warp, a secret world." 
------------------------------------------~-----------------------------­
Thursday, Apri14, 1991 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Chain letters bring nothing but sorrow 
I've never believed in bad luck. l!ntil now. Anna Marie Tabor 
I got a cham letter. . , It was not a friendly one Sa!nt Marys Accent promising to make me a Editor 
millionaire in thirty days------­if I sent one dollar to the named person. 
This letter promised good luck if I send twenty copies to other poor, unfortunate souls. 
And if I didn't... 
The letter went on to describe what hap­pened to people who broke the chain. Within ninety-six hours the curse made their lives miserable. In some cases, it ended them. Definitely not a pleasant fate. 
I laughed, wadded it up and casually threw it m the trash. Since then, nobody knows the troubles I've seen. Nobody knows my sorrow. 
Day #1: 
•1 
lost six essential keys, my student ID, driver's licence, Resource card with the PIN number written on an attached piece of paper (I kid you not). and two buttons from my winter coat 

•I 
had to use a pink registration form for the dining hall, forgot it every time I went to eat and had to pay lock-out charges. 

•To 
top it all, I am broke. 


Day #2: 
•I could not write checks at the mall without a picture ID. 
I had no proof of my SAGA number to use a co-ex. 
•I played my Johnny Gill CD once too many times before my roommates smashed it and I was punched in the face at a rowdy aerobics class 
Day #3: 
•I 
found out that the guy I've been secretly lusting after is tentatively involved. 

•I 
got a call from home. Our dog doesn't like neighborhood dogs at our new house and despite the chain and fence, she is AWOL and we think either a POW or MIA. If she isn't found ASAP, she might be DOA. 


Day #4: 
•I 
was humiliated at the dining hall when I took a dive at the salad bar and had to fill out an accident report. 

•The 
economy in Arkansas is down and I may not have a summer job. No mon equals no fun. 

•I 
also owe everyone in the known universe astronomical amounts of money. 

•I 
lost my pink registration form. 


I'm considering forming a support group. Victims of chain letter abuse need to band together in times of distress. I'm holding my breath until the ninety­seventh hour. On second thought, maybe I should carry an oxygen tank. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily the Observer. 
Today·s Staff: 
ProductionNews 
Ann BuffPeter Loftus Megan Junius Mike Krause 
Graphics
Sports 
Ann Marie Conrado Dave McMahon 
VIewpointScoreboard 
Barb MoranRich Mathurin Shannon Ryan Rich RileyAccent Jahnelle Harrigan 
Business
Anna Marie Tabor Colleen GannonMichael Whitman Collette Laforce 
Systems Circulation Pat Barth Chris Hanely Brian Stalter Lu Medeiros 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Aide oredicts guick end to crisis 
•ROME -The top aide to Giulio Andreotti, Italy's caretaker premier, on Wednesday predicted a quick end to the political crisis that brought down the nation's 49th postwar government last week. Fo.llowing the Easter holiday break, President Francesco Cossiga began consultations with political leaders to help him decide whether to turn once more to Andreotti, a six­time premier, to put together a new government. Andreotti announced his resignation Friday, bringing down his 20-month-old government. The premier agreed to stay on as a caretaker leader. The governing parties had been sparring with each other for months over domestic issues, but they had limped along to avoid a collapse during the Persian Gulf War and Italy's six-month presidency of the European Community. Among the areas the parties have been feuding over are how to hold back public spending and debt, how to fight organized crime, and whether to reform government institutions and the electoral system. RAI state television said President Cossiga would make his decision on a new premier by Saturday. 
INDIANA 
Five week marijuana trial in jury's hands 
•EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Jurors armed with yellow legal pads full of notes began deliberations Wednesday in the five-week trial of seven people accused in the 
growing of thousands of marijuana plants on southern Indiana farms. The complex trial, which began Feb. 25, 

OF INTEREST 
•seniors: Moving to that new city when you graduate in May? Career and Placement Services would like to help you find the new roommate/house-mate that you need. Stop down to the office and add your name to our 
I "Information Exchange" listing now, and then check back often for names. 
•The Eastman Brass will perform in a guest concert at 3 p.m. -not 2 p.m. as was earlier stated -in the Annenberg Auditorium, located in the Snite Museum of Art on Sunday April 7. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/Apri13, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 213.72 Million 207.40 • 0.02 

S&P COMPOSITE 1l.. 378.94* v 0.56 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,926,73 {718.32 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD 'if $1.40 to $360.30/oz. 
SILVER tJ' 7.5¢ to $ 4.063/oz. 
"record h~gh 
Cloudy today, chance of showers. High in 60s. Showers tonight, near 40. Friday, partly sunny, high in 60s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City 
Athens Atlanta Berlin Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft.Worth Denver Detroit Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrld 
~iami Beach Moscow New Orleans New York Paris Philadelphia Portland, Ore. 
Rome 
St. Louis San Francisco 
South Bend 
H  L  
57  50  
73  51  
64  35  
54  37  
65  37  
?9  63  
64  32  
53  27  
80  70  
79  57  
66  38  
54  43  
77  51  
66  45  
75  67  
43  43  
77  60  
57  36  
55  45  
57  34  
57  46  
64  37  
74  52  
73  49  
33  

has included 47 witnesses and 262 exhibits of evidence. None of the seven defendants testified. Six of the defendants are charged with conspiring to clone, plant, harvest and process several million dollars' worth of marijuana from the spring of 1983 to the fall of 1985. The other is charged with lying to a federal grand jury about the operation. The marijuana was propagated and grown on three farms near Loogootee, Otwell and Velpen, prosecutors said. Most of it was allegedly processed and distributed in Colorado and Nevada. Jurors heard final instructions from U.S. District Judge Gene Brooks before beginning deliberations about 11 
a.m. Brooks said the four-woman, eight-man jury would be sequestered if necessary. 
CAMPUS 
Asbestos removal occurs on campus 

•NOTRE 
DAME, Ind.-Notre Dame will remove asbestos from its Computing Center and Mathematics Building beginning Monday, April 8, continuing until June 20. The asbestos was installed during construction of the building 30 years ago to provide fire protection for structural steel beams. Since 1978 the University has monitored the building for airborne asbestos and has found no indication of a health hazard. Due to the location and accessibility of the materials, however, the University has decided to remove them. To ensure the safety of the operation, the removal will take place inside a sealed area which will not be unsealed until air samples demonstrate that no hazard has been created. The operation will be supervised by Cole Associates, an engineering consulting firnl, and by the University's department of risk management and safety. 


•Attention 
all Interested in the Puerto Rico volunteer program: Silvia Bauza is really here this time! She'll be in the CSC today, Thursday April 4, from 10 a.m. -5 p.m. Please stop by to talk to her if you are interested in the 


nroar:nn 
•LULAC will be having an organizational meeting for Latin Expressions tonight at 7 p.m. in room 118 Nieuland Science Hall. All are welcome. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1887: Susanna Medora Salter became the first woman elected mayor of an American community-Argonia, Kan. 

• 
In 1968: Civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was shot to death in Memphis, Tenn., where he had gone to support a strike by sanitation workers. 

• 
ln1974: Hank Aaron of the Atlanta Braves tied Babe Ruth's home-run record by hitting his 714th round-tripper in Cincinnati. 

• 
One year ago: Secretary of State James Baker began three days of talks in Washington with his Soviet counterpart, Eduard Shevardnadze, to discuss the Lithuanian crisis and arms control issues. 




~--------------~-­
Thursday, April4, 1991 The Observer 
page 3 



U.N. passes cease-fire resolutions; tough on Iraq 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­The Security Council on Wednesday adopted a truce resolution that forces a de­feated Iraq to its knees, de­manding It abolish weapons of mass destruction, renounce terrorism and repair the dam­age of Its occupation of Kuwait. 
If Iraq accepts the truce reso­lution, it would take effect im­mediately. The U.N.-ordered trade embargo on Iraq would be lifted in stages. U.N. peace­keeping troops would replace allied soldiers. 
Iraq's U.N. envoy called the resolution "outrageous" and "one-sided," but he said his government had yet to decide on compliance. Under pressure, Baghdad has accepted all pre­vious council resolutions since its defeat In late February. 
"Iraq now has a clear choice," declared Sir David Hannay, the British ambas­sador. "It can, by accepting this resolution and by implementing It rapidly and honestly, tum its back on the errors and crimes of the recent past, or It can perpetuate the suffering ... for a further period until it be­comes intolerable." 
A provisional truce has pre­vailed between Iraqi and allied forces since late February. 
The United States led efforts to squelch moves for a separate council resolution demanding that Iraq respect the lives of Kurdish and Shiite peoples who rose up at the war's end. Thou­sands have reportedly died as Saddam Hussein crushed those rebellions. 
The resolution, the longest and most complex in U.N. his­tory, demands the U.N.-super­
vised destruction of Iraq's chemical and biological weapons, nuclear weapons­grade materials, and ballistic missiles with a range of more than 90 miles. That would leave Iraq unable to fire missiles into Israel, as it did during the war. 
The truce maintains the U.N. embargo on conventional arms sales to the Baghdad govern­ment, but the ban will be re­viewed periodically. 
The truce holds Iraq liable for injury, damage and loss of property stemming from its Aug. 2 invasion and occupation of Kuwait, including damage to the environment. It says Bagh­dad must return all booty and documents taken from Kuwait. 
Iraq also must renounce ter­rorism and expel any terrorist groups from the country. 
U.S. Ambassador Thomas Pickering said the resolution was "tough, but it is fair." He held out a frail olive branch, saying, "If the people of Iraq will work with us ... and mili­tary tension recedes, the inter­national community can turn to assisting with the reconstruc­tion of Iraq, as well as of Kuwait." 
The Security Council ap­proved the resolution Wednes­day by a 12-1 vote. Two na­tions, Yemen and Ecuador, ab­stained. Cuba voted "no." 
The 10 non-permanent mem­bers are Austria, Belgium, Guba, Ecuador, India, Ivory Coast, Romania, Yemen, Zaire and Zimbabwe. 
Fighting ended Feb. 28 be­tween Iraqi and allied armies after Saddam Hussein's forces were driven from Kuwait. But 
the destruction of much of the 
Iraqi ruler's army encouraged 
revolts by Kurds in northern 
Iraq and Shiites in the south. 
France urged the Security Council to get involved in ef­forts to halt the civil war, but President Bush said Wednesday he had no intention of permit­ting U.S. forces to intervene in Iraq's civil strife. 
"I do not want to see us get sucked into the internal strug­gle In Iraq," Bush told re­porters in Florida, where he was vacationing. 
Iraq on Wednesday an­nounced the capture of the northern city of Suleimaniyah -the last sizeable town held by the rebels -and a rebel spokesman in Syria confirmed the city had fallen. 
The spokesman, Kamal Fuad of the Patriotic Union of Kur­distan, also said government troops had recaptured Zakho, on the Turkish border. Iraqi authorities had announced cap­ture of the town on Monday. 
International relief officials say up to 3 million civilians have fled their homes in north­ern Iraq, and many fled to the rugged northern mountains, where they face hunger and ex­posure. 
At the United Nations, Iraqi Ambassador Abdul Amir al-An­burl was harsh in his denuncia­tion of the truce approved Wednesday. 
"It is the most outrageous violation of the U.N. Charter," he said. "The Security Council has by far exceeded its author­ity, it has acted illegally, and I believe it is so one-sided that it is going to destabilize the re­gion rather than introduce 

UN•s Cease-Fire Resolution 
Key conditions that Iraq must agree to under a new Security Council resolution declaring a permanent cease-fire in the Persian Gulf War: 
• Iraq must destroy its chemical and biological weapons and ballistic 
•missile systems with a range of more than 150 kilometers (93 miles) under U.N. supervision and forswear future development or acquisition of such arms or of nuclear arms. • 
• 
An arms embargo on Iraq remains in effect. 

• 
Confirms previous decision to relax bans on sending food to Iraq. Trade ban remains in effect until Iraq has complied with the disarmament provisions. 

• 
Iraq is held liable for damage resulting from its invasion and occupation of Kuwait. A fund drawing from Iraq's oil revenues will be created to pay claims. 

• 
U.N. military observers are to monitor a demilitarized zone reaching six miles into Iraq and three miles into Kuwait. 

• 
Iraq must declare that it will not "commit or support" international terrorism. 

• 
Iraq and Kuwait must respect boundaries set in 1963 treaty. 

• 
Iraq is called on to cooperate with the Red Cross in repatriating Kuwaitis and others detained during the war. 


peace into it." 
But asked if he meant to say that the Baghdad government would not accept the measure, he replied: "No, I am not going to say that." 
The Iraqi envoy suggested that Iraq might try to modify the resolution's terms. 
"I believe it is, in a way open," he said. "For example, the question of compensation. What is the mechanism, the procedures, the laws, as well as the percentage to be taken from the Iraqi oil revenues, all these are points for negotia­tions, because they are not fixed in the resolution." 
He said Iraq reserves the 
right to seek reparations from the United States and its coali­tion allies. He hinted at re­course to the International Court of Justice on border, dis­armament and embargo issues. 
The United States, Soviet Union, China, Britain and France, which hold permanent council seats with veto power, set out the wording of the text before submitting it to the other 10 council members. 
The anti-Iraqi coalition has considerable means to pressure Baghdad into accepting the truce. U.S.-led allied forces now occupy a strip of land in south­ern Iraq that equals about a fifth of that nation's territory. · 
Gene Carroll United Mine Workers of America ''The.Pittston Strike'' Thursday, April 4 at 8:oopm Center for Social Concer11s 
! 

Talk and discussion of Appalachia Mining Struggles sponsored by the esc 
----~---~-­ 
page 4  ~·----­The Observer  Thursday, April 4, 1991  

Yugoslav army sends more troops to Croatia 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -The federal army deployed more armored units Wednesday in the republic of Croatia as Yugoslavia's collective presi­dency appealed for an end to escalating tensions between Serbs and Croats. 
Tanks and other armored ve­hicles patrolled areas of north­ern and west~rn Croatia, where ethnic Serbs have rebelled against local authorities. 
The eight-member federal presidency met for a third day to try to resolvE} the dispute be-

Abortion 
continued from page 1 
The liberitarians hold that "with respect to sexuality and reproduction there are these drives that people have that are very central to them, that are natural, and that the govern­ment has no legitimate basis for interfering." 
On the other end of the spec­trum, the traditionalists claim that while these natural drives exist, "it is legitimately pro­tected from artifical internal influence. The Community can protect it from defication and degradation." 

Sykes 
continued from page 1 
change them, they said. 
• University of Pennsylvania declared the word "individual" a red-flag phrase, because it could be implied as being racist. By emphasizing the indi­vidual over the group, one im­plies that the individual is of the majority. 
Sykes pointed out that the si­tuation rings of George Orwell and the idea that the corrup­tion of language leads to a cor­ruption of thought. The univer­sity is becoming "a culture of forbidden questions; ... the answers are things that we bet­ter not know." 
Administrations are forced to back down to calls from indi­viduals and groups to remain sensitive to their specific con­cerns. "Any group can sup­press hurtful ideas to create a gentle environment," Sykes said. 
As a result, the quality of a university is not determined by asking "are students learning anything?" but "is it sensitive?" 
The curriculum of a univer­sity reflects this change. Not only can a professor be held responsible for the material they teach, but they can be at­tacked for all that they assign or fail to assign. The adminis­tration has control over the material presented in any classroom. 
The loss of freedom of speech leads to a violation of academic freedom, he said. "The goal is not to argue them (ideas) out of your head. The goal is to 'cure' you of these ideas." The university believes it "must reach into their heads and re­educate them." 
Sykes said that a class at one university operated on the premise that "white students are racist and male students are sexist by defmition." In an­other case, a student was forcibly thrown out of a class for questioning the ideas of a professor. 
tween Yugoslavia's two most  Croatia afterward when ethnic  
populous republics. But the  Serbs announced that Krajina  
session, which was attended by  and another enclave were se­ 
the presidents of the six re­ ceding from Croatia to join  
publics and other senior offi­ Serbia. Serbs make up 36 per­ 
cials, produced no apparent re­ cent of Yugoslavia's 24 million  
sults.  people; the second-largest eth­ 
Serbian nationalists and  nic group at 20 percent are the  
Croatian police clashed in  Croatians.  
Plitvice National Park on Sun­ Longstanding enmity between  
day, leaving two dead and at  Croats and Serbs has worsened  
least 21 injured. The police  in recent months with Croatia's  
moved into the mountainous  decision to seek near-indepen­ 
park to drive out Serbs who  dence within Yugoslavia or  
seized it two days earlier.  leave the federation. Serbia has  
Tensions sharply increased in  insisted on a strong federation  
Although these two positions  which he said is not necessarily  
seem to be opposite extremes,  persuasive but is "in some  
Sunstein argues that are actu­ respects preferable. This  
ally quite similar.  postition takes a new look at  
"The commonality [between  the pornography, abortion, and  
the two positions] is that for all  surogate debates.  
their differences they both think  According to Sunstein, "In all  
that the right start is the  of these three areas, if there is  
natural rhelm of sexuality and  ·a problem, if there is an issue to  
reproduction, and that the  focus on, its this: woman's  
rhelm in its current form is not  sexual and reproductive capaci­ 
just natural, but good."  ties in all three areas are being  
This common belief led Sun­ turned into objects for other  
stein to pose the question: "Is  peoples control and use."  
the sexual and reproductive  In a general sense, the posi­ 
status quo natural or just, as  tion is a criticism of the status  
between men and women?"  quo. Turning women's capaci­ 
Sometimes it isn't, he an­ ties into objects for other people  
swered.  "is associating with a system of  
As a "worthy competitor" of  sex descrimination which we  
libertinarians and traditional­ tend still to a considerable  
ists, he outlined a third position,  extent have, and which we  

This concept of 'curing' stu­about the problems of racism dents of ideas, Sykes said, has and sexism. many dangerous implications. Finally, the efforts instituted First and foremost, it is an at­by administrators imply that tack on the mission of the uni­the groups in question are versity: to search for truth and, "mere bundles of pathology more importantly, to develop in that must be protected" from students the capacity to seek speech that hurts or disagrees the truth. with the beliefs of a group. 
"The university," he contin­Sykes emphasized that these ued, "may be victimizing the problems and situations are not students they have been trying indicative of Notre Dame. to help." Sensitivity training Because ND is a private institu­programs and racial education tion and "makes no secret of requirements could lead to where it stands, what it be­"sullen silence, sullen sensitiv­lieves," he said, it has no moral ity" in students. obligation to fund or support 
groups contrary to its Catholic Students simply won't talk identity. 
LAST CALL 
Spend a 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD 
Japan, Hong Kong, China, Nepal, India, Thailand 
16 Semester credits in various subjects Open to all ND-SMC students 
Spedal Presentation: 

Sunday, Nov. 16 6-8:00 pm Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's 
Videos, slides and Indian snacks 
Call Dr. Pullapilly at 284-4468 or 272-0889 
NEW &OLD LOGAN VOLUNTEERS COME CAMPING WITH LOGAN CENTER THIS WEEKEND! 
Where-Camp Eberhart When-Meet at Logan Center 9:00 am Sat. (will be usual van pick-ups) 
Return by 3:30 Sun. (Special arrangements can be made -if you need to get back early) 
Ques.-Janet 284-5090 Sail 283-3783 
controlled from Belgrade, the federal and Serbian capital. 
The collective presidency said in a statement that the "political and security situation in Yugoslavia is very serious and threatens to deteriorate." 
It called for tolerance by Serbs and Croats. 
Army units, including tanks and armored personnel carri­ers, were reported on the move in Krajina and in northern Croatia, where ethnic Serb vil­lagers were blocking traffic and attacking police stations. 
ought not have." 
In keeping with such a posi­tion, the three issues of debate are no longer influenced by whether or not the individual has a right to choose or not, but become a problem of equality, he continued. 
Although Sunstein mentioned that the alternative postion had its advantages, he said, it is "often not on legal or political agendas because it suggests that background ... is not okay, that it is a legitimate object for social and legal concerns ... The objection from neutrality has put this position off limits." 
The lecture was sponsored the Thomas White Center, the Woman's Legal Forum and the Year of Women. 
The university cannot, how­ever, expel students for opin­ions contrary to this identity. 
This restriction of freedom of speech and of academic freedom "damages the aca­demic character of the univer­sity," said Sykes. It is important to expose these "academic Albanians" and "to re-establish the university as "a center of humanism and learning." 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, APRIL 1 

2:24 a.m. A Flanner resident re­ported the theft of two textbooks from the sixth floor study lounge in Flanner Hall. 
9:30 a.m. A Flanner resident re­ported the theft of a textbook from the fifth floor study lounge in Flanner Hall. 
11:30 a.m. A University visitor re­ported a suspicious person looking into the collection boxes at Sacred Heart Church. 
12:30 p.m. A Flanner resident re­ported the theft of two textbooks from the fifth floor study lounge in Flanner Hall. 
1:05 p.m. A Flanner resident re­ported the theft of two textbooks from the tenth floor study lounge in Flanner Hall. 
1:10 p.m. A Flanner resident re­ported the theft of two textbooks from the eighth floor study lounge in Flan­ner Hall 
1:20 p.m. A Flanner resident re­ported the theft of a textbook from the fifth floor study lounge in Flanner Hall. 
3:20p.m. Security arrested a South Bend resident tor criminal trespass. The person had been issued a trespass warnLng previously. 
10:10 p.m. A Flanner resident reported the theft of a textbook from the fifth floor study lounge in Flanner Hall. 
TUESDAY, APRIL 2 

10:09 a.m. A Keenan resident re­ported the theft of clothing from the Washington Hall laundry room. 
2:53 p.m. A faculty member re­ported the theft of stereo equipment from his automobile while parked in the 801 lot. 
4:30 p_m. A Grace resident re­ported the theft of three textbooks from the eighth floor study lounge in 
~r;::u~A J-IRII 
4:45p.m. A University employee reported property damage sustained when a baseball struck his automobile while parked near Gate 4 of the JACC. 
6:03 p.m. A Keenan resident re­ported the theft of his bookbag from the South Dining Hall. 
WED., APRIL 3 

5:15a.m. Security cited an Indiana resident for speeding on Edison Road near Ivy Road. 
10:02 a.m. A Faculty member re­ported the theft of his decal from his automobile. 
Summer 



STORAGE 
RESERVATION (____6_83_-1_9_59_] 
• i\l)PitOX 2 1/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 Master Mini Wan·hou~cs 


Thursday, April 4, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Adworks announces new Exec. Board 
By JOSEPH ADAMS News Writer 
Adworks, Notre Dame's stu­dent-run advertising agency, has announced its 1991-1992 Executive Board. 
The officers for next year are Tim Stahl. President; Molly Flcckcr, Vice-President; Anita Covelli, Production Manager, and Andy Iliff will be the Finan­cial Manager. 
Stahl, a junior accounting major, said that as president, his duties arc to "oversee all operations, set prices, and oversee the finances." 
lie added that Flecker, a sophomore accounting major, will "assist the president and be responsible for hiring" while she is vice-president. 
Covelli, a marketing major, will return as production man­ager. Stahl said that her main responsibility will be to "trim the staff to make it more effi­cient and reliable" in order to prevent past financial prob­lems. 
Iliff, who is currently an ac­countant at Adworks, will "stop the problem with accounting" as financial manager. Stahl said that the Iliff's promotion was an opportunity for Adworks to "further exploit him." 
Stahl foresees a bright future for Adworks, noting that during the past year it "posted a book profit upwards of $500." This profitable operation is a change from last year, when Adworks ran into financial difficulties and posted a loss. 
Stahl said that these problems resulted from the accidental payment of bills which were not theirs and the failure to collect payment for services. However, he said that improved accounting methods will pre­vent future problems. 
"I can understand why people have shied away from us," said Stahl, adding that the Univer­sity "doesn't use us as much as they should." He noted that people "are getting their prod­uct," and that Adworks will produce "anything you can print." 
Stahl said that Adworks is "a tremendous opportunity for people to get involved" and that they are currently looking for typists and artists. 
NO athletes encourage area children 
By JENNIFER HABRVCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
"When I was young, I was small and no one wanted to pick me to be on their team, but to me I could play with any­one," said ND football star, Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, in a speech to the children of the South Bend community. 
Seven ND student-athletes, including Ismail, Demetrius DeBose, Brain Shannon, Derek Brown, Thomas Hunt, T.J. Clark, and George Williams spoke to the group at the An­gela Athletic Facility on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Their message: hard work, a positive attitude, determination, and setting and working toward goals can all lead to success. 
Each athlete gave a short speech and answered the chil­drens' questions. All stressed the importance of setting goals and working to reach them. 
T.J. Clark, a ND swimmer, said that a good performance isn't just something anyone can achieve. "It takes practice, de­termination, and a good atti­tude" to accomplish the goals we set out to achieve, he said. 
The speakers also stressed that it is easy to lose sight of your goals. Drugs and dropping out of school may be tempting, but they are not the answers. 
"When things start to get you down, and you can't see the light in the end of the tunnel, take time to look at the good things, and use that strength to carry you on," said junior foot­ball player Derek Brown. 
With motivation, a positive attitude, and sight of your goals, you can accomplish things you may have never dreamed possible, he added. 

Catholic schools recruiting more heavily 
BOSTON (AP) -Roman Catholic schools are trying to lure parents and financial sup­porters from public schools with a national advertising campaign touting their high test scores, low dropout rates and emphasis on ethics. 
"Catholic schools must tell the story of their academic ex­cellence and values-based edu­cation," said the Rev. Stephen O'Brien, executive director of the Chief Administrators of Catholic Education. 
The National Catholic Educa­tional Association on Tuesday announced the campaign, which will use the slogan "Discover Catholic Schools" on billboards, T-shirts and newspaper ads. 
The goal is to boost enrollment and attract financial con­tributions, especially from businesses that now aid trou­bled public schools. 
"Why throw good money after bad?" asked Sister Catherine McNamee, association president. "Why give it to the schools that are in the worst condition? Why not give it to the schools that have a proven record of quality?" 
A Rand Corp. study of 13 in­ner-city high schools in Wash­ington, D.C., and New York City found the public schools had an average graduation rate of 55 percent and a 642 average Scholastic Aptitude Test score out of a possible 1,600. 
The Catholic schools in the study graduated 95 percent of their students and had an aver­age SAT score of 815. 
Declining enrollment at the nation's nearly 9,000 Catholic schools is being reversed, but money remains a problem, Catholic educators said. 

An angry Georgian woman shows here feelings against the policies of President Gorbachev in Tibilisi Tuesday after prices were raised up to 1 000 percent throughout the Soviet Union. 


S. Bend firefighters fooled by 'Rescue 911' 
SOUTH BEND (AP) Firefighters heard a woman's voice pleading for help when they arrived at a burning home Tuesday night. 
Fortv minutes of fear and frustration passed before they realized the voice came from a television tuned to a drama­tized rescue program. 
The real-life episode began when a caller reported a house fire and said a woman and her child might be trapped inside, German Township fire chief Charles Johnson said. 
Firefighters and paramedics found smoke pouring from a one-story brick home when they arrived and heard screams. 
"You could hear a woman yelling, 'Help me, help me. Help my baby,"' Johnson said. 
Donning protective gear, fire­fighters entered the house and conducted a room-to-room search, but found no one. They looked through the house again, not noticing the televi­sion In the smoke-filled living room, and searched the grounds outside in case the oc­cupants had escaped. 
"Nobody knows how frustrat­Ing it is for a firefighter to hear someone calling for help, but you know you can't do any­thing," Johnson said. 
After the unsuccessful efforts, firefighters doused the flames and prepared for the worst. 
Once the smoke cleared, though, they discovered the television set, still turned on and tuned to the station that had broadcast an episode of "Rescue 911." 
The syndicated half-hour program about police and fire rescues was broadcast Tuesday night by the local CBS affiliate. No one was inside the house. 
"It was pure coincidence," Johnson said. 
gram started. She did not re­turn until after the fire was put



LAFAYETTE SQUARE 
out, Johnson said. 
orrection



TOWNHOMES 
An article in Wednesday's Observer incorrectly stated that there were 80 fmalists for

4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE 
the Harry Truman Scholarships. There were ac­tually between 50 and 70 winners of the scholarship. The 

AMENITIES INCLUDED: 
Observer regrets the error. 

·WASHER AND DRYER 
-SECURITY SYSTEM 
·DISHWASHER 
-CENTRAL AIR 
-PATIOS 
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT! 

CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 
Cinema at the Snlte

232-8256 
FRI & SAT 7:15, 9:45 

NOW LEASING: 

Karen Vincent, the woman who lived in the house, told fire officials she left home around 8 p.m., about the time the pro­



~-----~-­
~~g_e_6----------------------------~--------------~=====T=h=e=O==b=se=N==e=r========================================T=h=u=rs=d=ay=·=A=p=ri=14=,=1=9=91~ 
: L.A. mayor adds to police commission 
tos ANGELES (AP) -Mayor the lynch mob has been trying Tom Bradley's latest pick for to do, I'm not going to be a the Police Commission won City party to that," Bernson said. Council approval Wednesday Asked for his definition of a despite complaints the ap­police commissioner's job, pointment was part of a cam­Sheinbaum said: "It is to have a paign to oust Police Chief Daryl voice in Police Department Gates. overall policy .... It is to hold the 
The political maneuvering police chief to his own came one-month after the standards." March 3 videotaped beating of The Police Commission, which black motorist Rodney King and is investigating the King beat­a day after Bradley told Gates ing, was reduced to three mem­he should resign for the good of bers earlier this year when two the city. members resigned rather than 
The council voted 10-2 in fa­comply with new fmancial dis­vor of Stanley Sheinbaum after closure requirements. hours of questioning that fo­Under the City Charter, the cused on Sheinbaum's ability to civilian board can frre the chief be objective. Sheinbaum has a of police if it has hard evidence long association with the of wrongdoing. The mayor American Civil Liberties Union. cannot fire Gates and his civil 
The Police Commission, service protection makes it al­
Baby it's cold outside 
minus Sheinbaum, was to meet most impossible to get rid of Thursday in executive session him. 
This four week old South American rhea, that was hatched at Taronga Zoo in Sydney Australia, 
to discuss Gates, "among other During the hearing, it was 
stands shakily over an unhatched rhea egg. In three months time the tiny bird will join the seven other 
things," Commissioner Dan disclosed that Gates received 
rheas on public display. 
Garcia said Wednesday night. superior ratings qualifying him He refused to be specific. for merit raises over the past 
Brass ensemble to perform Sunday
The commission has the several years. His most recent power to fire or discipline raise came in January. Gates. Gates has refused to quit. He Special to The Observer "Heliotrope Bouquet" by Scott 1964. The ensemble has ap­
Councilman Hal Bernson was has been chief for 13 of his 42 Joplin, "Come Where My Love peared on CBS Sunday Morning most vehement in his objection years with the department. The Eastman Brass will per­Lies Dreaming" by Stephen with Charles Kuralt and has to Sheinbaum, saying he was Gates said he would be form in a guest concert Sunday, Foster, and "Tiger Rag," a tra­performed in major university concerned about "the inability willing to leave if two blue­April 7, at 2 p.m. in the Annan­ditional rag. and concert series in the U.S. 
for anybody to get a fair hear­ribbon citizen panels berg Auditorium in the Snite The inembers of Eastman and Canada. ing before this commission." conducting top-to-bottom Museum of Art. Brass-Barbara Butler and The ensemble also toured Is­"If we are going to have a reviews of Police Department The program, titled "Four Charles Geyer, trumpet; John rael, and, under U.S. State De­railroad job ... to railroad the training and procedures Centuries of Brass," will include Marcellus, trombone; Verne partment auspices, Central and 
chief and place him on adminis­determine he has been derelict "Voluntary" by Shostakovich, Reynolds, horn; and Don Harry, South America. The Eastman "Quartet in E-Flat Major," Op. tuba-are all on the faculty of Brass was also heard nation­12 by Felix Mendelsohn and the Eastman School of Music at wide in their own 13-part series "Americana," a mix of four the University of Rochester. on National Public Radio. songs arranged by Verne Eastman Brass has traveled Admission for the concert $5 Reynolds: "Barnum & Bailey's extensively throughout North for the general public and $2 Favorite" by Karl King, America since it was formed in for students and senior citizens. 
Uhuru M"ovement to meet in Chicago 
Special to The Observer and community leaders from sion of democracy for the throughout the country repre­African community." 
The National People's demo­
senting the Black Power Move­The two-day event will begincratic Uhuru Movement will ment, the Chicano and Native each day at 9 a.m. and regis­hold its founding convention" on 
American Movement Move­tration is free. The National 
April 6 and 7, 1991, at Malcolm ments, and the white solidarity People's Democratic Uhuru X College, 1900 W. Van Buren, movement. Various workshops Movement is open to people of Chicago, Illinois. and panel discussions will be all nationalities. For more in­The convention will feature held on the theme, "Self-deter­formation, call (312) 778-7541 civil rights attorneys, activists, mine tion is the highest exnrP.s-or f21q) 234-q374. 
l?JJ®~L? ~®W9 
~£L( ~lP[;W.~ 
MOVING • AUTO • SPENDING MONEY SECURITY DEPOSIT· WARDROBE 
Seniors, when you graduate, you'll have expenses and we would like to help! We have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 
~NEW AUTO· 9.75°k APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. 
YOU MAY OOALfY FOR ANY OF THE FOUOWWG LOANS BASED ON YOUR SIGNATURE. 
• MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your first year as part of this special offer. ~QUICK CASH· 13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this 
loan, you simply write a check! ~ RELOCATION· 9.1o/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to ~repay. You must also have our Mastercard and 
line-of-credit. Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 
1(1. NOtRE 01\ME ~ .FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
239-6611 
Separate from 1118 Unlv~rsJ!l.__ 

trative leave and hang him as in his duties. 
Discussion of Our Lady to be held Saturday 
A discussion titled "A Tribute Professor of Business Adminis­to Our Lady: Notre Dame Our tration at Notre Dame, will Mother," will take place Satur­speak on "Notre Dame, Our day, April 6 at 9 a.m. in the Mother." Paul Fisher, a 1943 University of Notre Dame's Notre Dame graduate and Hesburgh Library auditorium. member of Sacred Heart 
The discussion will be Parish, will speak on "Our chaired by Dolores Tantoco­Lady of Lourdes: Two Stauder, Notre Dame librarian. Perspectives," Sister Margaret Edward Murphy, John Michael, CSC, Campus minister Matthews Professor of Law at for the Diocese of Fort Notre Dame, will give a lecture Wayne/South Bend, will speak titled "Do Whatever She Tells on "The Blessed Virgin You." Mother." 
Anthony Trozzolo, Huisking Another "Tribute to Our Professor of Chemistry at Lady" discussion is planned for Notre Dame, will speak on May 3. Further information "The Seven Sorrows of Our may be obtained by calling Lady." Tantoco-Stauder at (219)239­
Frank Reilly, Bernard Hank 6904 or 234-7287. 

Tickets On Sale Today 
Les Miserables Trip April 11 Cubs Vs. Phillies Trip April 15 
$20 
Buy your tickets at LaFortune Information Desk 
Thursday, April4, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Salvadoran rebels to participate in U.N. peace talks 
SANTA MAHTA, El Salvador (AP) -Hebel commanders have come down from the mountains under international protection to take part for the first time in U.N.-mediated peace talks. 
"We are at a crucial moment that could end the war," guer­rilla commander Raul Hercules said, speaking of the potentially decisive round of talks in the 11-year-old civil war that were scheduled to begin Thursday in Mexico City. 
"Conditions exist for negotia­tions -and the people can't stand more war," he said. 
The presence of Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, or FMLN, field commanders at the talks means that detailed negotiations on the mechanics of a cease-fire are on the agenda. 
Hercules spoke to reporters late Tuesday after arriving at the isolated hamlet of Santa Marta, 56 miles northeast of the capital, San Salvador, in Cabanas province. 
He and another commander, Jorge Melendez, who was picked up in Morazan province, were escorted separately to the airport by representatives of the United Nations and the am­bassadors of Venezuela, Colombia, Spain and Mexico. 
Two other commanders tak­ing part in the talks left the country earlier. 
"We're going as FMLN mili­tary experts, but that doesn't mean we can't contribute to other aspects of the meeting," Hercules said. 
Territorial control is a key is­sue in the cease-fire proposal now being negotiated. The pro­posal would confine the gov­ernment and rebel armies to their respective "zones of con­trol." 
"We aren't going to cede anything we control," Hercules said. "But neither are we going to insist on territory we don't control." 
Church, government, rebel and 
U.N. officials have all expressed optimism the new talks could end a war that has claimed at least 75,000 lives. 
"Both sides are eager to overcome roadblocks," U.N. mediator Alvaro de Soto told The Associated Press this week. 
''I'm almost certain that this year will be the year of peace," Col. lnocente Montano, vice minister of public security, said recently. 
The negotiators face a dead­line. Constitutional reforms would be a key part of any peace accord and two succes­sive National Assemblies must approve any reforms. 

Poll says that faith in God matters most to Americans 
NEW YOHK (AP)-Tho Ago really Is, said William spondents to a 1990 A<~sociatcd who said faith in God was what tioned were most important. of tho Yuppie is dying. Faith in McKinney, dean of Hartford Press poll conducted by ICR they valued most, 29 percent Roof, who is working on a God is tho most important part Seminary. "We're in some ways Survey Research Group said re­cited good health and 21 per­hook on the "baby boom" gen­of Americans' lives, followed by an incurably religious culture." ligion was very important in cent said a happy marriage was eration of Americans in their good health and a happy mar­The telephone survey of 600 their lives, and 86 percent said most important. 30s and 40s, said the survey re­riage, according to a poll. adu Its was conducted Jan. 17-it was either very important or Only 5 percent said a job that sults suggest the baby boomers 
Forty percent of respondents 20 for the Lifetime television fairly important. they enjoy was most important, are maturing. said they valued their relation­show "The Great American TV while 2 percent said the money "I am finding a kind of ma­ship with God above all else, Poll." The survey by Princeton Two recent books that have they make counted most. Two turing effect. I see it as a kind while only 2 percent said a jop Survey Research Associates has analyzed religious trends -percent said the respect of peo­of a shift from a me-generation, that pays well was the most a margin of sampling error of "Religious Indicators" by ple in their community was me-first, to a more balanced set important thing in their life. plus or minus 4 percentage priest-sociologist Andrew Gree­most important, and 1 percent of concerns about self and 
"That's an astounding set of points. ley and "100 Questions and An­said none of the values men-others." figures, It seems to me. It sug­Diane Colasanto, who over­swers: Religion in America" gests a re-orientation, a cul­saw the survey, said it is diffi­published by the Princeton tural shift," Wade Clark Roof, a cult to compare it to other polls Religious Research Center ­
What Matters To Americans 
professor of religion and society because the question was asked have concluded that there has 
A survey conducted for Lifetime's new daily half-hour strip series, 
at the University of California, in a new way. The question been a remarkable level of 
"Great American TV Poll," asked Americans what they felt is the 
Santa Barbara, said compared faith in importance stability In the personal 
most important thing in their lives. 
Wednesday. to other concerns rather than religious faith of Americans. The responses are part of a solely addressing the impor­"My sense is that this is a growing body of survey data tance of religion. But she said long-held fact of American life," 

A job that you enjoy 5% 

that deflates the notion built up the results are consistent with added Colasanto, a former In popular culture in the '70s other surveys showing the im­senior vice president of The and '80s that many Americans portance of religion in Ameri­Gallup Organization. 
A happy marriage 21% 

are mainly motivated by greed cans' lives. Professional goals ranked at and personal ambition, sociol­"My guess is that this is not a the bottom of the things Ameri­ogists said. new phenomenon. It's some­cans said were most important "The people who are shocked thing we've never looked at in in their lives, according to the 
The respect of people 

are those who believe this this particular way," she said. poll. 
in your community 2% 

country Is more secular than it Fifty-eight percent of the re-In addition to the 40 percent 
Telephone survey of 600 adults (300 men/ 300 women) conducted by Princeton Research, January 17·20. 1991. Survey has margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. 
Source: L~etime Press AP 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 


page 8 The Observer Thursday, April 4, 1991 




English author Graham Greene dies at age 86 
GENEVA (AP) -Graham Greene, whose novels of dark intrigue and tense struggles for moral and physical survival brought him worldwide fame, died Wednesday. He was 86. 
The British author died at La Providence Hospital in Vevey on Lake Geneva, where he had been admitted Sunday and been treated repeatedly since the fall, hospital director Robert Bertschy said. He did not give a cause of death. 
Greene's career spanned more than half a century. He wrote 24 novels and several successful movie scripts, trav­eled widelv and was drawn to political controversy throughout his career. 
"The best of his novels will be remembered as literary perfec­tion. Greene will be read and remembered as the ultimate chronicler of 20th-century man's consciousness and anxi­eties," said novelist William Golding. 
"He was a great and magical writer, hard to fit into any pat­tern," said spy novelist John Le Carre, who described Greene as his "guiding star." 
An AngUcan convert to Ro­man Catholicism, Greene com­bined a passion for politics, ex-

Graham Greene 
oticism and religion. He de­cribed writing as a way of "finding peace, though it is a 
AN INVITATION TO GRADUATING SENIORS TO ATTEND THE OFF • CAMPUS DINNER/DANCE 
also called • 
THE SENIOR SOLUTION 
FRIDAY---APRIL 19, 1991 
7 p.m. to Midnight 
at St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall Western Ave. at Scott Street 
..SIT DOWN, FAMILY STYLE DINNER ..DRINKS ..GREAT BANDS 
THE COST: $25.00 A COUPLE If you did not buy a bid to the Senior Formal,why not iump on this attractive alternative for a truly festive time? 
tickets on sale at the -LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK 
very unpeaceful process of fmding." 
Some of his most acclaimed novels include "The Power and the Glory" and "The Heart of the Matter," which reflected Greene's inner conflicts over religion. 
"The Quiet American," a po­litically tinged work foreshad­owing U.S. military involvement in Vietnam, depicted an idealis­tic American doctor in French colonial Indochina. 
Greene wrote the movie script for the classic 1950 spy thriller "The Third Man" and also wrote children's books, plays and lighter novels such as "Our Man in Havana," a spy spoof. 
He was honored by Queen Elizabeth II and the French government but never won a Nobel Prize despite several nominations by colleagues. 
Greene was born in Berkham­sted, England, on Oct. 2, 1904. His father, Charles Henry Greene, was headmaster of Berkhamsted School, a presti­gious boarding school for boys. 
He ran away from school for a time and was sent to a psy­choanalyst at 16. Shortly afterward, he flirted with sui­cide, trying out "Russian roulette" several times. 


ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP)­Afghan President Najibullah on Wednesday accused Pakistan of direct military interference in his war-devastated country and 
asked  Iran  and  Turkey  to  
intercede,  Radio  Kabul  
reported.  

In letters to Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani and Turkish President Turgut Ozal, Najibullah pleaded with them to warn Pakistan it faces "dangerous consequences" if it fails to distance itself from U.S.­backed rebels. 
Najibullah's plea, reported by the radio in a broadcast monitored in Islamabad, came less than a week after Afghan rebels overran the heavily forti­fied garrison town of Khost in southeastern Afghanistan. 
After two weeks of fierce fighting, the guerrillas captured the town, imprisoned at least 6,000 battle weary government 
Afghan president seeks allies in Iran and Turkey 
soldiers, and captured equipment that included helicopters, tanks and scores of trucks. 
"We are holding undeniable documents and flagrant evidence that the Khost offensive was conducted under the direct supervision of Pakistani generals," Najibullah was quoted as saying in a letter to Rafsanjani, the Iranian leader. 
Pakistan has routinely denied similar charges. 
"We are asking you to stop Pakistan's aggression against Afghanistan, which can only have dangerous consequences," he said in his letter. 
Both Iran and Turkey have strong economic ties with Pakistan. Iran, like Pakistan, is host to several million Afghan refugees who fled their homeland in 1979 when Soviet soldiers intervened to prop up their Communist ally in Kabul. 
ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Always alert 
While holding his machine gun a Marga fighter (Kurdish rebel) stirs some cooking food. This portrays a recent picture occurring in the rebel held area of Iraqi Kurdistan. 

\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ \ 

Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
WEDNESDAY APRIL Jrd 
THURSDAY APRIL 4th 
Between 9:00-4:00 at the 
NOTRE DAME BO.OKST,ORE 


-~-------~~---~-------­
Thursday, April 4, 1991 The Observer page 9 
Catholic cabbie shot in Belfast 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) -A Roman Catholic taxi driver was shot to death in Belfast on Wednesday and his car set ablaze, police said. 
No one immediately claimed responsibility, but suspicion fell on Protestant paramilitary groups. Such groups were al­ready blamed for 12 of 15 deaths this year in political or sectarian violence In Northern Ireland. 
In the latest killing, Sam Bell, 54, a father of five, was found dead Inside his burned-out Re­nault. The British news agency Press Association said Bell had been shot in the head. 
He was the third Catholic cabbie killed In Northern Ire­land In the past six months. The previous deaths were also blamed on Protestant paramili­tary groups. 
lt can strike 
a ,Low agavlf!t
~ 
ierw{~l m~o6lf!r 
~ 
nlt 
I 
o e 
Silent sentinel AMERICAN 
An abandoned Iraqi tank stands as silent guard by _a bur~ing _oil well in the Greater Burgan oil field Wednesday mornmg. F1re fl~~t~_rs
WCANCER 
efforts to tackle damaged wells were symied by near zero VISibility
~SOCIETY® 
from the smoke of burning wells and equipment breakdowns. 


~MANUFACTURERS ~HANOVER 
Some straight 'A' options from EFG 
Guaranteed and non-guaranteed loans. Lines of credit. Flexible budget plans. Given the high cost of higher education, it's essential to have more than one financing option to cover your tui110n costs. That's why The Educational Financing (;roup of Manufacturers Hanover offers a stra1ght 'A' lineup of options designed to help you achieve your academic financial objectives. 
It's as easy as EFG: No one else offers a more comprehensive range of options. Because no one else understands your needs better than the Educational Financing Group. Call us at 
1-800-MHT-<~RAD 
and go to the head of the class. 
Jury recommends death sentence for drug kingpin 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) -A jury recommended Wednesday that a convicted drug kingpin become the first person In the nation sentenced to death un­der a 1988 federal law allowing capital punishment in drug-re­lated killings. 
David Ronald Chandler was tight-lipped but showed no emotion when the jurors made their unanimous recommenda­tion after deliberating 90 min­utes. His wife, Debbie, sitting in the front row of the courtroom, broke into tears. 
The same jury on Tuesday convicted Chandler, 37, of Piedmont, of running a mari­juana ring in Alabama and Ge­orgia and protecting the opera­tion by soliciting at least one murder and the disappearance of two other people. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney How­ell Davis told jurors there were enough aggravating circum­stances for them to recommend death. 
But defense attorney Drew Redden argued that death was not merited because Chandler had no prior felony convictions. 
"It would be a tremendous mistake to return a verdict of death," said Redden. He said he would seek a new trial. 
U.S. District James Hancock told jurors that if they recom­mended capital punishment, the law required that he impose that sentence. He 
Educational Financing Group 
tentatively scheduled formal sentencing on May 14. 
Chandler also could have been given a life sentence without parole and fines totaling $4 million. 
Congress in 1988 passed a law permitting capital punish­ment when drug activity results in an intentional killing. No one has received the death penalty under the law. 
U.S. Attorney Frank Donald­son said the Federal Bureau of Prisons would have to decide the method and location if the death sentence is carried out. 
"There's nothing in the law" to prescribe the method of exe­cution, he said. "This Is new to us. The details will have to be dealt with later." 
Donaldson said it's possible the federal government would contract with the state to carry out the sentence at Holman Prison In southern Alabama, a state facility where eight pris­oners have been electrocuted during the last decade. 
The last civilian executed by the federal government was Victor Feuger, hanged in 1963 in Iowa for murder and kid­napping. 
The jury deliberated four hours before convicting Chan­dler. 
Chandler was accused of of­fering $500 to Charles Ray Jar­rell to kill Marlin Earl Shuler, described as a member of Chandler's operation who be­came an informer. 
Jarrell testified he shot Shuler in the back and neck at a pond in 1990 but never col­lected the money. 
Chandler also was convicted of Involvement in the disap­pearances last fall of Patrick Burrows and Jeffery Scot McFry. Chandler was said to have believed the men were stealing marijuana from his fields. 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRI & SAT 7:15, 9:45 
Work up to 6 months 1n Bntam. Ireland. France, Germany. Jama1ca. Nell'l Zealand. and Cosla R1ca Council's Work Abroad Pro­gram. the only,one ol1ts kmd 1n the US cuts through all the red tapel 
Call for FREE brochures on work programs. d1scount a1r lares. language courses. and more. 
Council on lnt'l Educational Exchange 
(U.S Sponsor of the lnt'l Student! D Card) 



-----------·-·~­
page 10 
Efforts to rescue cave explorer move slowly 
CARLSBAD, N.M. (AP) -The spirits of a spelunker whose broken leg has kept her in the nation's deepest cave for four days began to sag a bit Wednesday as rescue efforts slowed. 
"She's still in good spirits, but when you've been hauled around for 10 to 12 hours on your back, the spirits start to drop down," Park Ranger Don Alire said of Emily Davis Mob­ley. 
Mobley was more upbeat ear­lier in the day, when she said the ordeal would not keep her from exploring caverns. 
Rescuers moved rapidly through the cave with Mobley earlier Wednesday after using ropes and pulleys to scoot her across a 100-foot-deep chasm of Lechuguilla Cave in a remote area of Carlsbad Caverns Na­tional Park. But they began to tire by evening, Alire said. 
Mobfey broke her left leg early Sunday in a fall at a site about 1,000 feet beneath the surface and about two miles into the cave. 
The leg was splinted and she was moving toward the en­trance with the help of some of the nation's top cave and cave rescue experts, hobbling when there was space to stand upright and being carried or slid on stretchers elsewhere. 
Mobley, 40, spoke to reporters for the first time by telephone Wednesday via a line rescuers had stretched to her from the entrance. 
''I'm feeling real good this morning. I'm being taken care of real well down here," said Mobley, a 22-year cave explorer and an expert cave rescuer. 
Mobley, of Schoharie, N.Y., said she hopes her leg will heal by summer so she can resume exploring Lechuguilla Cave. 
"There's no way this is going to slow me down at all," she said. 
At the time of the news con­ference she was about to begin the treacherous journey through a boulder-strewn area with large holes called The Rift. 
"This cave rescue couldn't be run better," Mobley said. "I'm comfortable at all times. ... I'm not being treated like a pack­age. I'm being treated like a person." 
Rescuers were able to move Mobley through The Rift later in the day and expected to reach another formation known as Glacier Bay by early evening. 
After The Rift, rescuers faced another formation known as Glacier Bay, which Dennis Curry of the Hamilton County Cave Rescue Team in Chat­tanooga, Tenn., described as very difficult. 
"It's a giant glacier of gypsum that is very crumbly," Curry said. "It's very fluted." 
Rescuers earlier Wednesday moved Mobley across a 40-foot­long chasm known as Freakout Traverse, the longest in the cave, said rescuer Mark Rosbrook. 
Rosbrook said ropes were anchored to two large boulders. Mobley, who was on a stretcher attached to pulleys, was pulled across the chasm. 
"There are a lot of vertical projections below you," Ros­brook said. "If you would slip you'd take a pretty substantial fall." 
Rescuers used most of Tues­day to haul the 130-pound Mobley up a 250-foQt slope known as The Great White Way. Mobley and the people with her, including a doctor, rested at the top of the slope overnight. 
Mobley told reporters she had been exploring caves since 1969 when a friend at the University of Denver introduced to spelunking. 
"The frrst time I went caving I thought it was the most exciting thing I've ever done," she said. "Ever since then, caving has been a major part of my life." 
The cave is not open to the public but the National Park Service allows a limited number of experienced cave explorers, or spelunkers, in to explore and map the labyrinth of chambers and narrow passages. So far, 
54.3 miles of cave have been mapped. 
The Observer Thursday, April4, 1991 

A group of youn.gsters, members of~ family which ~led war-torn Iraq, share a bowl of rice at a refugee camp 1n Occupied Iraq, Tuesday, wh1ch was established by the Kuwaiti Army near Safwan. 
Judge suspended for berating woman 
NEWARK, N.J. (AP)-A judge who berated a woman for being an unwed mother, telling her that children born out-of­wedlock end up in jail or are shot, was suspended Wednes­day by the state Supreme Court's chief justice. 
Justice Robert Wilentz re­moved Superior Court Judge Eugene Kenny after listening to a tape recording of the 76-year­old jurist lecturing the woman, Debbie Rivera. 
Rivera, 27, of Jersey City said Kenny turned her court ap­pearance into a lecture on morality. 
The matter is being referred to the Supreme Court for con­sideration, Wilentz said in a statement. 
On March 25, Rivera went to Hudson County Special Civil Court to recover $300 from a check-cashing agency she ac­cused of shortchanging her. The judge ruled against her. 
is currently accepting applications for the following posi lion: Day Editor For more information contact 239:-7471 or 283-4624Dannika  

COM~UT~~ tAB CONSUtTANTS 
Now Hiring for 1991-92 
Positions are available in all staffed clusters: Architecture, Campus Seturity,CCMB 210, Hayes-Healy, Hesburuh, Lafortune, and O'Shaughnessy. 
Non-consulting positions also available. 
For an application or further ilformalion, slop by 246 Hesburgh before nApri11191 


~----·~----~-~-~------._....-----~---------~~-----....,­
Business 
Thursday, April 4,1991 page 11 

AP Photo 
Don Dixon, former owner of the Vernon Savings & Loan Association, leaves the U.S. Courthouse in Dallas Tuesday after being sentenced to five years in jail and ordered to repay almost $600,000 for using money from the thrift to fund a lavish lifestyle. 
FDA officials subpoenaed in insider trading investigation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Food and Drug Administration offi­cials have been subpoenaed in an investigation into possible insider stock trading on confi­dential information about drugs the agency regulates, government officials said Wednesday. 
A joint investigation is under way by the Securities and Ex­change Commission and the in­spector general of the Depart­ment of Health and Human Services, said Judy Holtz, a spokeswoman for the inspector general's office. She declined to characterize the nature of the investigation. 
TWo sources familiar with the probe said it centered on in­sider trading using confidential information about drugs regu­lated by the FDA. Pharmaceuti­cal company stock prices can rise or fall sharply on news that a major new drug has been approved by the FDA or on re­ports of negative FDA action related to drug companies. 
One source said the investiga­tion was focused on officials within the FDA's Office of Drug Evaluation and Research. An­other said less than a dozen subpoenas had been issued. 
"The agency is aware that several FDA employees have been asked to provide informa­tion to federal investigators about products regulated by the FDA," said FDA spokesman Jeff Nesbit. "The fact that in­formation is being collected is vastly different than a charge that someone's done something wrong." 
Nesbit said he did not know the full nature of the investiga­tion but that information and files had been sought through subpoenas delivered by agents of the HHS inspector general's office. 
Published reports said more than a dozen FDA officials and five private individuals had re­ceived subpoenas issued by a federal grand jury in Baltimore. 

Anti-smoking advocates want Marlboro Man to leave the Shea Stadium wall 
NEW YORK (AP)-For the last nine seasons, the Marlboro Man has taken his position in the outfield at Shea Stadium as a larger-than-life figure on a billboard. Anti-smoking ac­tivists want him dropped from the lineup. 
Health advocates say the ad gets on television when cam­eras point that way, enabling Philip Morris USA to skirt a ban on cigarette commercials on TV. 
The protest is the latest in a string against tobacco compa­nies' sponsorship of sporting events. U.S. Heath and Human Services Secretary Louis W. Sul­livan has called such sponsor­ships "blood money." 
In an article last week in the New England Journal of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine Dr. Alan Blum said ci­garette makers' sponsorship of auto racing gives them "millions of dollars in low-cost national exposure." 
"The whole idea of tobacco sponsoring sporting events suggests that tobacco use is compatible with physical fitness and athletic performance when we know that the opposite is the case," said Dr. Ronald Davis, director of the Office on Smoking and Health for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control. 
An anti-smoking group called Smokefree Educational Services has organized an opening day protest at the stadium next week to get the Marlboro Man benched. 


MAY SEMINARS  

APPALACHIAN SEMINAR MAY 12·18  NOTRE DAME PANAMA SEMINAR May 11·18  
WORKING SIDE BY SIDE  
1-CREDIT THEOLOGY THIS SEMINAR COURSE GRADED S/U 15: ORIENTATION AND FOLLOW-UP DURING THE SEMESTER BREAK ONE WEEK IN KENTUCKY WORKING, LAUGHING, LEARNING COMMUNITY BUILDING APPLICATION: Available now at -the Center for Social Concerns Applications are due: APRIL 12  1-CREDIT THEOLOGYTHIS SEMINAR COURSE GRADED S/U 15: ORIENTATION AND FOLLOW-UP 9 DAYS IN PANAMA SPANISH HELPFUL/ NOT REQUIRED COST: PLANE PLUS PERSONAL Available now at the APPLICATIONS: Center for Social Concerns Applications due: APRIL 12  


page 12 Thursday, April 4,1991 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •••.••.••••••••••••••••Monica Yant Advertising,Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor...••..•..••...•. .Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports EdHor ••......••••...David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor .•....•.•.•.....•.. .John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor •••......•••••..••...••..Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Peralez defends integrity; rebuts campaign charges 
Dear Editor: Commissioner which provided and values were entirely consis­campaign I have condemned black organizations, student 
During the Student Senate the ostensible reason for the tent with our Catholic Univer­the NAACP and have pledged to government disqualified my campaign, the constituents of railroad of my campaign by the sity. I told her that this was the brook no demands for the fi­candidacy for similar reasons. district one learned that Paul Student Senate. Rather, I will same Student Government that nancing of this racist organiza­Members of the black commu­Peralez does not mice words address that those acquainted was met with a demand from tion by the studentry of Notre nity, by some of whom I am and that I am quite apt to with me know that I am a per­the Black Cultural Arts Council Dame. Blacks have a knack for routinely harassed and threat­grandstand-characteristics son of the utmost integrity, su­for $7500 and that had demanding that government fi­ened, rallied around my oppo­which undoubtedly affected the perbly qualified to represent awarded the NAACP $2000, ac­nance their schemes. I and my nent (who I remind you was decision of the Elections district one in the Student Sen­cording to my sources. This de­constituents have said "enough never elected last year but ran Committee to unfairly charge ate. My campaign had a pur­spite the fact that the NAACP is enough!" unopposed) and exercised un­my campaign with rules viola­pose which 261 constituents re­has staged what I believe to be Paul Peralez pledged to re­due suasion on the ruling of the tions. Had it not been for the sounded with their votes. And anti-Notre Dame demonstra­store fairness, reason, and fis­Elections Committee and the sectarian elections commis­in a high-handed abuse of au­tions on campus, impugned cal propriety to student gov­subsequent decision of the Stu­sioner that charged me, the ma­thority, Student Senate denied Catholicism as racist, and fi­ernment. Affected as .they are dent Senate. licious and poorly informed edi­the Peralez campaign its man­nanced SUFR's propaganda ef­by SUFR's militancy and insur­Many of my supporters have torial in The Observer the day date. fort among minority students. rection, black organizations spoken of an attempt to launch of the special session of the The most emblematic moment Moreover, the national NAACP feared and thwarted my cam­a write-in campaign to elect me Student Senate, and the kanga­of this campaign was when I has taken a conciliatory posture paign. And election officials and to student government. To them roo court that resulted, I would was approached by a female towards Louis Farrakhan, an Student Senate, fearing the I say: be patient and store yourtoday be an elected and ar­student who explained that she anti-semite who purveys a fallout from blacks, quickly de­enthusiasm, I'll be back. guably the most effective mem­had requested $400 and re­simple brand of Islam in our cided that my candidacy was ber of Student Senate. ceived $200 from student gov­nation's ghettos and exhorts expendable. Paul Peralez 
I will not speak to the ridicu­ernment for a women's rights blacks to rain violence on our Browbeaten by blacks to ap­Dillon Hall lous charges of the Elections organization whose purpose ctties. Throughout this propriate excessive monies to April1, 1991 

Why reserve college sports for only intelligent students? 
Dear Editor: 
I saw Father Hesburgh on public TV talking about honesty in college sports. What a phony your ex-president is. You're a Catholic school that uses non­Catholic people as coaches and players. No state-run school is that dishonest. Hesburgh must have in the past denied a good Catholic kid a spot on your football team because some non-Catholic coach found a non­Catholic kid who was faster than available Catholics. Did the non-Catholics convert? 
Secondly, what is so important about education? Only 20 percent of any nation is smart. Are the rest of us just garbage that we can't play college sports? We can run, jump, 
DOONESBURY 
pass, shoot, block, or whatever, but Hesburgh doesn't want us playing college levels. That is nuts. 
Stupid kids could continue taking high school courses plus go to vocational schools while playing college football for a state college. The state college could pay for a stupid kid's technical education. Then the stupid kid could made a million dollars per year in the NFL while the smart kids make $20,000 teaching school. I was a Catholic, but priests like Hesburgh are such phonies I quit the Church in 1970. 
Guy R. Spitale Truck Driver Baton Rouge, LA 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I FOUND WTIWAS 
'The game of life is a game of 
~7,000 
IN IJ&/3T. 
boomerangs. Our thoughts, deeds 
I 
. and words return to us sooner or later with astounding accuracy.' 
Florence Scovel Shinn 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
~I I t</8/IIT BACK 70 HAV/3 ANYTHING Nt/AJ 
a<AY, IXJ&S ANYON13 
50/00l-. B.(}. HAl? AUf/AYS HAN0£8[) OUR FINANtu313t­
7H8Y WANT 7D SHAR.8 MTH TH/3 5UProRIGROUP? 
f01<13, ANOI O!f?N'T 8Vl3N ANYN8W(J}P/N6 5TRAT8­
KNOW HOW 7V BALANa G/8S TH!rrHAVe IAJORJ<UJ 
A CH&CK.BOOK! 
FOF<. 

50 I TOO!<. ACOURS/3/N 
f'eRSOVAL..R­NANt:e.NOW 
I !<NOW 
&NOUGH 
G8TBY. 
ANOIAHAT 
010 YOU 
FINOOlJT ABOUTYWR.­513lFIN7Ht; 
PR.OC£93~ 

...

Viewpoint
Thursday, April 4, 1991 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
Once again the students of Notre Dame are running around. getting DAHT books, obtaining PIN numbers, and trying to figure out just what courses they should take to makH the best schedule ever. 
We all reach the moment when we know we want that theology course, but the one we want is offered that the same time as a rnquired class and all other theology courses just seem uninteresting. This can happen in almost any subject matter. What most ND students don't seem to be aware of is that the DAHT book only contains about 75 percent of the available course options. A trip to the registrar at Saint Mary's will produce the other 25 pHrcent. 
Each student ND/SMC of course 11arns a diploma from his or her own respective school, but, in order to make iifn more enjoyable for all, NotrH Dame and Saint Mary's have agreed to combine forces. 
There are number of Saint Mary's students that take ad­vantage of cross-campus classes, but the number of ND studnnts that do is significantly less. One could argue that the reason for the discrepancy is that ND is bigger and has more to offer while Saint Mary's is smaller and supposedly more specialized. 

My point is that Notre Dame is not large enough. Notre Dame does not have programs in education, nursing, social work. or communications that is not media or theater based. Saint Mary's College has all of these as well as a variety of music ensembles that are open to students of both campuses. 
Why is it that Saint Mary's students take advantage of NO's 
Reader finds column conclusions 'invalid' 
Dear Editor: 
I>Hspite being no fan of "political correctness." I found Hick Acker's column (Observer, March 27) on the subject dis­turbing. 
Acker seems to have made use of an article by Dinesh D'Souza from the March, 1991 issue of The Atlantic Monthly, "llliberal Education," which bemoans the dismantling of the "traditional" liberal American college curriculum. Specifically, every exampl•1 Acknr employs to illustrate his account of "polilieal correctness" is taken from D'Souza's article. 
The quotation in Aeker's piece from Dnnis Donoghue appears in D'Souza's article on page 78; that from "young aeademics" at a "mcent eonference" is on page 
56: that from Annette Kolodny is on page 57; and the story about the Prmn student'S defense of individual frnedom appears on page 55. 
Now thesn items have all ap­pearnd in print elsewhere, so it is possible that Acker picked them out himself. But Acker 
also quotns Barbara Herrnstein Smith of Duke. and this material is unique to D'Souza (page 58), who did special research at Duke. It seems clear that Aeker has helped himself to D'Souza's research, at least the Smith quotation, without the courtesy of mentioning the debt. 
But I won't accuse Acker of plagiarism. Although his exam­ples may be borrowed, Acker's idnas are his own (at least. as as I know). D'Souza in his articlH quotes briefly (and out of context) the thinkers he crit­ieizes. This strategy is designed to put their worst foot forward: a radieal statement, quote t out of context to make it look erfectly ridiculous, and let Haders draw their own , mdusions. Those familiar with Souza know this is a style of rgument he uses often, and 
don't expect anything ore substantial from him. Acker, on the other hand. is not content with this strategy and instead draws conclusions for us--and invalid ones. For instance, Smith says that "there is no knowledge, no standard, no choiee that is objective." It does not follow from her claim that "all truth is lies,' or that "any idea or theory that relies upon one or more 'truths' is false becasue all truth is lies," as Aeker holds. Smith denies the existence of objective truths: how can such (nonexistent) things bH lies or anything else? 
Also, Acker reports that, "when we focus on issues of in­dividual freedom we frustrate and obscure issues of group justice, say the politically cor­reeL" From this it is supposed to follow that, "when Americans claim to promote justice and uphold freedom, they are really saying that they promote and uphold the de facto slavery of raeism." This conclusion is vague. What is the "de faeto slavery of racism"? Raeism is an attitude, slavery an institution, and clearly someone could explicitly rejeet slavery and still be racist. Acker's conclusion seems to be either a falsehood or an uninformative restatement of the premise. 
Why is this disturbing? Be­cause Acker's portrayal of the "politically correct" is as Or­wellian as "political correct­ness." He draws invalid eonelu­sions-probably just like the ones D'Souza was hoping for-and represents them as theses to which the "politically correct" are eommitted ("truth is lies"), and he does so on the basis of positions with which he is unfamiliar ("knowledge is ignorance"). 
The irony would be amusing if not for the fact that the liberal education Acker evidently cher­ishes is meant in part to permit the exposure of views like his as fallacious and shallow. 
Michael Byron Off-Campus March 28, 1991 
engineering college, but few NO students take advantage of the education classes at SMC that could very well be the deciding factor in getting a position as a 
T.A. in graduate school or a s a manager in a business? 
I have taken almost a fresh­man year's worth of classes at SMC. People often ask me why. "It's because of all the girls there, right?" Actually, being the only guy in a class can work against you. When I'm absent, it's obvious. That' not the rea­son. 
Many people, from both sehools, ask me if I think Saint Mary's courses are easier. My initial response wants to be "Yes" when I think about my SMC grades compared to my ND grades, but then I realize that maybe Saint Mary's teaches to my style of learning. 
The classes are smaller and more seminar/discussion ori­ented. Professors, secretaries, and librarians have gone above and beyond for me. They show a real dedication to the school and to the students. 
Because Saint Mary's is smaller than Notre Dame, there is not as much red tape when it comes to dealing with the de­partments and the department secretaries. things are very 
problems 
personalized and the staff easily 
knows all the students by name. 
I feel very weleome. This kind 
of environment helps foster my 
kind of learning and, 
henceforth, the explanation for 
the better grades for me at 
Saint Mary's. 
Notre Dame has given me 

more than I ever could have 
hoped for in a university. I just 
know what kind of teaching 
style and classroom environ­
ment applies to me. Saint 
Mary's is able to accomodate. 
Notre Dame has one of the best 
packages for a complete college 
experience on the market. I 
have merely added to my in­
vestment by realizing the hid­
den assets across U.S. 31. 
Right now, Notre Dame stu­dent are complaining about the demise of an undergraduate education due to increased pressure to be a researeh insti­tution, that DAHT is closing them out of classes and that classes at Notre Dame are too large. Well, NO, you have a choice and a virtually unex­plored option. 
Ed Palmisano Cavanaugh Hall Aprll2, 1991 


Dear Editor: 
To those students and faculty that vote here in the third dis­trict, I learned recently that our Representative to the House, Tim Roemer, voted against the use of force in the Gulf. He then defended his vote by saying that he thought this is what the majority of his constituents wanted. Did he not take a look at the polls coming out of the third district? The majority of his constituency were in favor of force in the Gulf; he was not. 
He had access to this infor­mation before he cast his irre­sponsible vote. He also had knowledge of the atrocities that were taking place in Kuwait be­fore he cast this vote. With this knowledge in hand, he pro­ceeded to vote against the troops, and against the people of Kuwait. l am not outright advocating the use of force or the lack of it, I am saying that Mr. Roemer is not representing us. His failure to vote responsi­bly shows that he really does not respect our decisions, but feels he can reject what we want and opt for a vote that has no legitimate end. 
To those of you who had, or may still have, family and friends in the Persian Gulf, your Representative Tim Roemer did not support you or your mission. We, as the voter who unfortunately put him in office, are going to need to watch this man very closely-he is not representing my interests or the majority of the folks in the third district. 
Anne Marie Crane 
Off-Campus 
Aprll2, 1991 
-. 

--. -



----~~---~~~~~-~---~-~-·----.
-----------. 
Accent 
Thursday, April 4, 1991page 14 
BulletBoys goes into the cage 
By FRANK PASTOR people in general. But we're a Accent Writer rock band, not a soul band. Who says how we can or can't 
"Occasionally," writes New sound? That's up to us." York Newsday, "a new band will come along to challenge the In an age where record com­
softness, bands such as pany executives often wield Metallica, Guns N' Roses, and more influence over a band's the newest contenders, sound than the band itself, the BulletBoys." BulletBoys seem to enjoy a sur­prisingly wide range of artistic This quote appeared in 1988, freedom. For example, there 
.... immediately following the re­are no ballads on "Freakshow," lease of the band's epony­a decision that many bands mously-titled debut album. would consider a calculated "BulletBoys" sold over a million risk. copies in the United States "When the time is right," 
alone and spawned the hits D'Anda said, "we'll have a bal­"Smooth Up In Ya" and "For lad. But we won't be forced into The Love Of Money," a stinging doing what we don't want to cover of the O'Jays classic do." which earned the band public plaudits from the O'Jays them­What the album does have, selves. though, is a live pulse which 
The album also invited com­resonates through all 12 cuts parisons to early Van Halen, a and testifies to the power of parallel which the BuUetBoys imperfection in rock music. The rejected and ultimately dis­album was recorded live in the missed as a "journalistic con­studio and stands on its own venience" that arose because without benefit of overdubs, 
the band was discovered by polish, or fancy packaging. former Van Halen producer Ted "A lot of people take rock 'n' bum's tracks, particularly "Do the first album," D'Anda said. Templeman. 'Who says how we can roll too seriously nowadays," Me Raw" and "Good Girl." "We wanted to let people know 
D'Anda said. "It shouldn't be "'Do Me Raw' is about the that we have talent. Making this 
or can't sound? That's 
On their second Warner used as a political tool. That's most ridiculous things," D'Anda album was a lot more fun Brothers release, the up 'to us.' why we vote. It should be used said. "We had so much material because we're more friends 

Templeman-produced to forget about life's problems. for that s-<>ng that we wrote now. On the first album, we 
The approach seems to be
"Freakshow," the BulletBoys We write about the aspects of "GoodGirl" from that, too. We were still feeling each other 
working. The first single from
have tirelessly attempted to life that make people happy. A just took up where we left off out." 
the album, the cynical "THC
forge their own sound while re­lot of bands have forgotten with "Do Me Raw." Formed two and a half years 
Groove" which was advance-re­
jecting the traditional maxims that-it's become more of a ago, BulletBoys rose from the 
leased on February 12, has
of commercial airplay. selfish thing." "Freakshow" also pays tribute ashes of King Kobra, a band 
already become a popular
Even in its recording, Torien's interpretation of the which featured former Vanilla 
request on album-oriented rock 
"Freakshow" stands as a severe BulletBoys sound stems from Fudge drummer Carmine
'You can go to the
stations.
indictment of the formula­his Motown roots. The son of a Appice. After three years of oriented approach to music­trombone player in the Stan circus and look at the relative stagnation, the band 
"Freakshow," which the band
making which dominates much Kenton Orchestra, Torien has split up and vocalist Torien, 
of the industry today. The calls "a composite of life's id­worked with the likes of freaks or you can put guitarist Mick Sweda and iocies," was inspired by the
BulletBoys actually recorded Smokey Robinson, Stevie bassist Lonnie Vencent joined
yourself in their cage.' 
BulletBoys' observations and
the album twice -once with an Wonder, the Temptations and D'Anda to form the BulletBoys
experiences culled from years
ear for potential hit singles be­Rick James at different stages in 1988. 
of living and playing in Los
fore deciding to scrap every­in his career. to the BulletBoys' many
Angeles. As lead singer Marq
thing and return to their origi­influences, which range from The BulletBoys kicked off a 
Torien said, "You can go to the
nal, soul-inspired rock 'n' roll As pervasive as Torien's classical to jazz to R&B to clas­23-city tour with Great White 
sound. circus and look at the freaks or scorched vocals on sic rock. Tom Waits' acoustic and Steelheart on March 21 in you can put yourself in their
"We like a lot of '60s Motown "Freakshow" is the BulletBoys' number, "Hang On St. Kalamazoo, Michigan. The band 
cage."
stuff," drummer Jimmy D'Anda healthy sense of humor. The Christopher," receives a hard· is scheduled to appear at the 
There is no question where
said. "That music meant a lot to band's tongue-in-cheek percep­rock overhaul on the album. LaPorte Civic Auditorium on 
the BulletBoys would rather be.
us as kids and influenced us as tions arise on several of the al-"We did not want to rewrite Aprilll. 
Festival continues to Jazz NO 
By ELIZABETH WHOLIHAN careers. A small dream of a few bands in the country with a students grew into the most history dating back to 1942. 
Accent Writer 
noted collegiate jazz festival in University of Illinois' per­Music lovers will be treated to the country. formance will open Saturday a historical festival that was evening's events at 7:30 p.m. formed 33 years ago. The This year our own ND jazz with a tribute to John Garvey. annual Collegiate Jazz Festival band will be opening the festi­Garvey, the original organizer will be held at Stepan Center val for the 19th year. Father of the U of I Jazz Band in 1959, with an evening showing this George Wiskirchen will be lead­still leads the band and has Friday April 5 and a matinee ing the band for the 32nd con­greatly expanded the program, and evening showing Saturday secutive year. The band con­giving it an outstanding reputa­April6. sists mostly of non-music ma-tion with its many tours and performances across the coun­
'The judges have had a
Chaired by ND senior Bill try. Graham in 1959, the Collegiate detailed history of Jazz Festival was only intended The 33rd annual Judge's Jam
musicianship with an 
to showcase the talent of Notre has become a favorite part of Dame students with hope that it impressive amount of the Collegiate Jazz Festival. would grow in content and This gives the judges an oppor­
success.' 
popularity in a few years. In tunity to display their talents. fact, it grew into a competition jors. They perform in other There is a great history of jazz of bands from across the events on campus including among the six judges. country. It has since become Junior Parent's Weekend and From recordings and 
-
more solely a festival with less their spring "Jazz al Fresco" performances with such greats emphasis placed on the concert on the quad. as Sarah Vaughan, Stan Getz, competition among the bands. This year MIT, Purdue, and Miles Davis to Steve Michigan State, and University Winwood, James Brown and The number of famous judges of Illinois are some of the Paul McCartney, the judges
-
in the festival's history is ex­schools taking part in the have had a detailed history of tensive, and includes Quincy Collegiate jazz Festival. There musicianship with an Jones, Wynton Marsalis and will be a special performance impressive amount of success. Herbie Hancock to name a few. by the Airmen of Note, the U.S. Tickets for either day's events Several participants, including Air Force's premier jazz may be purchased in advance David Sanborn, have gone on to ensemble. It has been ac­at LaFortune Student Center or pursue professional music claimed as one of the finest big at the door of Stepan Center. 
--~ ­
-~----~---­
Thursday, April 4, 1991 The Observer page 15 
• 
Bruins, Penguins get nothing from home advantage 
(AP)-Two regular-season divi­sion champions, the Boston Bruins and Pittsburgh Penguins, saw the home-ice ad­vantage they worked 80 games to got disappear in 60 minutes on Wednesday night. 
Tho Bruins, who won the Adams Division, were shocked 5-2 by Hartford in their playoff opener as John Cullen had a goal and two assists. The Patrick Division-champion Penguins, who won the first ti­tle of any sort in their 24-year history, managed only one goal against New Jersey and lost 3-1 at the Civic Arena. 
In tho other Adams Division semifinal series opener, Montreal rallied from an early 2-0 deficit to outscore Buffalo 7-5. Tho Now York Rangers boat Washington 2-1 in tho other Patrick Division semifinal opener. 
All four series resume Friday night. 
Tho Norris and Smythe Division semis open on Thursday night. In the Norris, it's Minnesota at Chicago and Detroit at St. Louis. In the Smythe, Los Angeles hosts Vancouver and Calgary enter­tains Edmonton. 
Whalers 5, Bruins 2 
The Whalers, who finished the season on an 0-5-2 slide, ap­peared headed for an early wipeout at Boston Garden when Jeff Lazaro scored 23 seconds into the game and Mark Hunter's major penalty for elbowing 21 seconds later gave the Bruins a live-minute power play. 
But the Whalers allowed only one shot while killing off the penalty, tied the game at 14:11 on Pat Verbeek's power-play goal and went ahead to stay in the second period on goals by Kevin Dineen and Rob Brown. 
"We didn't get down after they scored so early," Verbeek said. "We kept working." 
Petri Skriko's power-play goal late in the second period made it 3-2 but John Cullen and Paul Cyr scored 28 seconds apart late in the third period to put tho game away. 
"We were beaten," Boston coach Mik,e Milbury said. "They outworked us. They outchecked us. They finished their oppor­tunities better. They had bettor defense. They had better goal­tending." 
Devils 3, Penguins 1 
New Jersey was 0-for-4 at Pittsburgh during the regular season, but it didn't matter Wednesday night. 
Peter Stastny scored twice for the Devils. His second goal, a wraparound at 4:12 of the third period, broke a 1-1 tie. Laurie Boschman fmished off a 2-on-1 break 50 seconds later by beating Tom Barrasso over the left shoulder for a 3-llead. 
Mario Lemieux gave the Penguins the lead with a power-play goal midway through the second period, but Stastny, who had just one point in his last 12 regular-season games, tied the score at 15:42 by knocking in a rebound. 
The Devils put on an exhibi­tion of defensive hockey that made their coach proud. 
"It was that old-time hockey," Tom McVie said. "Old-time hockey in my book is hard hit­ting, checking and the forechecking game I Jove dearly. I'm not interested in this breakaway-type hockey. You won't win anything with that." 

The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune. Deadline tor next-day classitiads is 3p.m. All classltieds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 
Do you have 2 Paul Simon tickets??  Roomate needed for summer  89 GEO Spectrum  PREGNANT?  ST. JUDE NOVENA:MAY THE  
NOTICES  Call Amy 1289  session. Call nm M-F at 233-8461.  Great Gas Mileage· 45/city 50/highway  Whoops! Is "Our Baby" growing in your tummy by accident? Loving  SACRED HEART OF JESUS BE ADORED, GLORIFIED, LOVED  
American Au Pair nanny specialists.  Still has factory warranty  doctor and his stay-at-home wife  AND PRESERVED THROUGHOUT  
Carefully screened families. Full  Condo for summer rental  excellent buy, call Pat  would like to discuss Baby's future  THE WORLD NOW AND  
TYPING AVAILABLE  benefits, airfare, good wages,  2 bdrm 1 mi. from NO 272-5708  288-5678  with you. Please call collect  FOREVER. SACRED HEART OF  
287-4082  Nanny support system, no fees.  anytime. (219) 462·5250 Michael &  JESUS PRAY FOR US. ST. JUDE  
Local interview-call Joan 616-684·  2 Bdrm. 2 Bath Oak Hill Condo.  Debra.  WORKER OF MIRACLES PRAY  
$$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. hours 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 233·2342  1451. EARN $300/$500 PER WEEK  $650 unfurnished, $800 furnished. Avail. for Summer and 91·92 School yr. Call Michelle at X4970.  TICKETS  ...BEDSPINs•••  FOR US. ST. JUDE HELPER OF THE HOPELESS PRAY FOR US. SAY THIS PRAYER NINE TIMES  
corner of NO Ave. & Howard  READING BOOKS AT HOME.  friday nile  EACH DAY AND BY THE EIGHTH  
1-615-473-7440 EXT. B  TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES  I NEED 2 GRAD TICKETS. CALL  at McCormicksl  DAY YOUR PRAYER WILL BE  
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE  JOHN X2325.  ANWERED. IT HI\S NEVER BEEN  
Winning Hotel, has rooms for  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  IDEAL FOR 5·7 PEOPLE OTHER  KNOWN TO FAIL.THANK YOU .LM  
Graduation weekend.  Located at  OPPORTUNITY  3·4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE  SENIORS! II  
Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $11 0 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd. Elkhart, IN 46514. MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  Firm desires undergrads or grad students for pool construction. Will train and provide position for several Summers. Steady employment and pay increases available. Write 1919 So. Michigan St., South Bend, IN 46613 or call  NORTH OF NO 2773097 Hawaii beachfront CONDO, sleeps 4, 11128·12/5/91, $500, mins. from Hula Bowl & Honolula. Call 234· 5041/233·4408. Female roomates wanted for  I need 1 Grad. Ticket Call Martha x4271 I PERSONAL  ENGINEERS' WEEK APRIL 8 ·12 Off-Campus Engineers · please pick up your Engineers' Week Booklet in the  Now LAMing FAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOIIES 4&1~w.l'a AVAILAM.I. Anlt!!l!ln lnrlt* WASHER & DRYER  
Last day for loans is Thurs. Apr. 411 (May '91 Grads not  Joe at 287-9283.  Summer School to share Oak Hill condo-call Amy @  MODELS WANTED FOR ADVANCED HAIRCUTIING  Engineering Student Center today! ·······················  ·SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER  
eligible) USA TODAY • Needs early AM delivery person for campus dorms, Mon.-Fri. Delivery takes approx. I one hour. Phone. Bob Powell at 287·LOST/FOUND 8531 .• ':L=os=ti=B=Iu=e=D=e=n=im=J=a=c=ke=t=at=o=ff=.~ I FOR RENT campus party Saturday. Key in ==========__.pocket call x2092. STAYING IN SOUTH BEND THIS SUMMER? WE'RE LOOKING FOR A BABYSITIER FOR 2 112LOST: a navy blue windbreaker, CHILDREN FOR APPROX. 20with "Mountainside Community Pool FLEXIBLE HOURS PER WEEK.Staff" on It between LaFortune & SALARY OR FREE ROOM ANDFisher on Man 3/25. Be real cool BOARD. PLENTY OF TIME FOR Aand return It to Jeff x1873. SECOND JOB. COULD WORK INTO A POSITION FOR FALU SPRING TERM. CALL ANNA ATLOST: 277-2468 (H) OR 288-6466I left a Limited bag in the Main (W).Circle late on Monday night. If you found It, please call me at: 284· 4112. GRAD. WEEKENDREWARDI BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 3 Bedroom Houser WANTED Close to Campus1 $555 Month + DepositHELPI HELPI HELPI HELPI HELPI Ten Month Lease 232-3616I lost my cross in Gym 1 of the ACC on Wednesday March 27. I left it TIME IS RUNNING OUT · there after 5 p.m. It's a silver cross Call before the BEST houses are on a black rope band. It has GREAT gone 233·9947.SENTIMENTAL VALUE. A REWARD IS OFFERED. If found Available. 2 Student Rental Homes for 1991·1992 school year. Call 232·5411 (9 A.M to 12 and 2 P.M. to:Cash. Call with 5 P.M. Monday thru Friday).ldes;cri~ltior. -Mike x3589 HOUSES FOR LEASE 91·92 Yr. 3·7 Bedroom, Furnished,SUMMER JOBS Reasonable Rates.ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Call at 232·1776.ESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS RONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR Historical 3-bdrm. house, goodPLACID. CALL neighborhood. Kevin 234-3937.·800·343·8373. An attractive studio in lovely oldIIINEED A ROOMATE FOR mansion near N.D. $300 nowPT. NEXT YEAR-CALL renting for summer &fall 91 callX2051 2879624  284·4445 Students wanted to sublease apt. for summer. RENT NEGOTIABLE. ·Blaize x1654 Students wanted to sublease apt. for summer. RENT NEGOTIABLE. -Blaize x1654 FOR SALE IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOMEI 3 BDRM HOME FOR SALE BY OWNER. FIREPLACE, C/A, FMRM W/BAR. MOVE-IN COND. 15 MIN WALK FROM ND. APPT ONLY. 234·8116, EVE. sofa, luv seat, carpet window seats (Fl. & Gr.) X1583 Bar. Five Stools, Misc. glasses. 289-5345. CABER COMP SL Ski bt, sz7.5, $200. x1400 86 VW GOLF.Excellent cond., AIC,sunroof,pull-out hi-fi.New Michelins,exhaust,brakes,belts,hose s.Orig owner must sell.$3690.232·9952. 1990 CAVALIER Z24, lt. blue, low miles, sharp. Call 271·8920. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Buying a car? Good rates. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. FOR SALE: One Way Ticket to L.l. Islip Sat. 5111 $125 Erin x4492 Want to avoid the endless computer lines at finals? then buy my practically new, professional WP system. Easy-to­use, fantastic results, and no walling! $300 or b.o. Mattx2004  CLASS. CALL COSIMO'S 277­1875. Resumes....Professional quality 272·5667. (Tom Williams) ADOPTION: Happily married loving couple wish to adopt. We promise a fine education, financial security, and the best of all our hearts. Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Call Tom and Debbie collect 212· 866·8315. Going to HOUSTON/DALLAS? Too much stuff to bring home for the summer? Help me fill my truck. Contact Joe-X1433 A HAPPY HOME FOR YOUR BABY. A Southern California teacher and film/businessman seek to fulfill dreams through adoption. We offer financial security, education, opportunities, and extended family. Please call collect Maria and Peter (818) 893·2795. Ill JUNIORS, JUNIORS Ill SUBMIT RESUME TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW. !!! JUNIORS, JUNIORS !!! SUBMIT RESUME TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW. TUTOR WITH PH.D. AND 10 YRS. UNIVERSITY TEACHING EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST BUSINESS & ECON. STUDENTS IN ECON & MATH COURSES. 272·3153. SAM'S WHOLESALE CLUB Special Service for NEW BUSINESS MEMBER sign ups. No need to stand in long line.Just call 24-hour recorded message· 277· 6877.  I got it. Come. And be my baby. Hola, Angell Major te acostumbras a Ia idea de que no te voy a dejar ir. Je I' ml Y nada va a cambiar esol J. P.S.: No, no estoy melancolicol Come watch the Tutus dominate Bookstore! Monday, April 8, 4 p.m. at Stepan. Just look for the tutus. Five Guys Who Aren't Afraid to Wear Tutus While Playing Basketball. Monday, 4 p.m., Stepan. We suck rhino. Here's what Kelly Cook, star guard of the Tutus, says about life: "I wish I had a bedrail. But I don't, so I play hoops in a tutu. I'm content." To all ENGL 491A warriors: "War is the nightmare where adults feel like children" FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. !!I PROFESSORS... Ill ARE YOU TOURING THE WORLD ON A FULBRIGHT? ARE YOU GOING TO BERMUDA? ARE YOU JUST GOING AWAY THIS SUMMER? WORRIED ABOUT THE HOUSE? RESPONSIBLE UNDERGRAD IS LOOKING TO TAKE CARE OF YOUR HOUSE WHILE FLUNKING ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IN THE SUMMER SESSION. NO NEED TO WORRY THIS SUMMER! CALL ANYTIME. ..283-3470...PLEASE LEAVE A MESSAGE IF GONE I CAN FURNISH "CHARACTER" REFERENCES UPON REQUEST.  -CENTRAL AIR ·PATIOS OM.Y A f£W APARTMENTS LEFTI FOR MORE N'O NON. 232-82118 THE CACTUS LIVESIIIII Bring out the Contreau, snag some nutellal But where the hell is that I@#$?I Banzai ??? GEORGIE-Less than 2 weeks left. You can run, but you can't hide! HAHA HA HA HA Ha Ha Ha Ha ha ha hahahahahahahahahahlllllll -Doc. hi ag-agi, that is. The men of Zahm have come through· not only have they once again proved that they indeed carry the bigger sticks but they have shown they definitely know how to use themI Sorry 'Naugh men...you lose again... 'Cheese...on offense you make shots and then they're made into theopposing team's goal, not yours... lrwin...try staying on your feet but then again, you did manage to hold on to the ball-more than one can say for Lanagan... o·nm... hope you see more action at your section SYR than you did on the field ... Dino...nice legs,would you be wearing the dress to Senior Formal? ...and to the Zahm peanut gallery... you men are HARSHI Rooffsan, or should I say, the 8884 man?· Belelve me, the day will come when the whole basis for your existance will vanish. ·Krausesan  

---------~-----~~-~------------­ 
r=  
I  
.­ Thursday, April 4, 1991  SCOREBOARD  page 16  

NBA STANDINGS 
AIITimHEST EASTERN CONFERENCE AlnlclllvWon 
w L Pet. <E y-Boston 53 20 .726 x-Phlladelphla 41 33 .554 12 112 New York 35 38 .479 18 Washington 27 45 .375 25112 New Jersey 23 50 .315 30 Miami 22 51 .301 31 Centnllllvillon x-Chlcago 54 18 .750 x-Detroh 46 27 .630 8112 x-MIIwaukee 44 29 .587 10 112 x-Atlanta 38 34 .528 16 Indiana 36 37 .493 18 112 Cleveland 26 47 .356 28 112 Charlotte 22 51 .301 32112 WESTERN CONFERENCE 
~lllvielon 
w L Pet. <E x-San Antonio 47 24 .662 x-Houston 47 25 .653 112 x-Utah 47 25 .653 112 Orlando 26 45 .366 21 Dallas 26 46 .361 21112 Minnesota 22 49 .310 25 Denver 19 53 . 264 28 112 Padlc lllvielon x-Portland 54 18 .750 x-LA Lakers 52 21 .712 2 tr.! x-Phoenlx 50 22 .694 4 Golden State 37 35 .514 17 Seattle 35 37 .466 19 LA Clippers 28 45 .384 26112 Sacramento 20 52 .278 34 x-dlnched playoff berth y-dlnched division title 
W~y'aGemea 
Late Game Not Included Cleveland 95, New York 84 Philadelphia 107, Indiana 104 Houston 102, Dallas 66 Utah 99, LA Clippers 97 Seattle 106, Sacramento 91 Miami at Golden State, (n) 
Thndly'a GamK New Jersey at Boston, 7:30p.m. Atlanta at Charlotte, 7:30p.m. Portland at Washington, 7:30p.m. Denver at Minnesota, 8 p.m. San Antonio at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. Chicago at New York, 8:30p.m. LA Lakers at Phoenix, 9:30p.m. 
EXHIBITION STANDINGS 
AMEACAN LEAGUE 
W L Pet. 
Boston 20 9 .690 Minnesota 19 9 .679 New York 18 11 .621 Cleveland 14 1 0 .583 Kansas Chy 14 11 .560 Seattle 14 12 .538 Bahlmore 13 14 .481 Chicago 13 14 .481 Calnomla 12 13 .480 Oakland 11 15 .423 Texas 11 16 .407 Milwaukee 1 1 18 .379 Toronto 8 18 .308 Detroh 8 20 .266 NATIONAL LEAGUE 
W L Pl:t. Houston 14 9 .609 St. Louis 15 10 .600 San Diego 14 10 .583 Atlanta 14 11 .560 Pittsburgh 1 3 1 1 .542 S.F. 14 12 .538 NewYork 14 14 .500 Chicago t 4 15 .483 Montreal 12 14 .462 Cincinnati 12 15 .444 LA 13 17 .433 Philadelphia 9 16 .360 
NOTE: Split-squad games count In standings, ties do not 
W~y'aGomea 
Los Angeles 3, New York Mats 2 Boston 3, Pittsburgh 0 Philadelphia 7, St. Louis 2 Atlanta 6, New York Yankees 5 Minnesota 11, Texas 1 Chicago White Sox 7, Toronto 1 Milwaukee 4. San Francisco 2 Cleveland 7, Seattle 0 Oakland 9, Chicago Cubs 2 San Diego 5, California 3 Bahin'lore vs. Montreal, ccd, rain Kansas City 8, Houston 1 Clndnnati 6, Datroh 4 

'v-.,· 
NHL PLAYOFFS TRANSACTIONS 
All nmes Eastern Montreal vs. Buffalo Los Angeles vs. Vancouver BASEBALL DIVISION SEMIRNALS Wednesday, April 3 Thursday, April 4 American League(Best-of-7) Montreal7, Buffalo 5, Montreal leads series 1-0 Vancouver at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. BOSTON RED SOX-Signed Tony Fossas, Walea Conference 
Friday, Aprils Saturday, April 6 p~cher. Sent Joslas Manzanlllo, phcher, to 
Pittsburgh vs. New Jersey Buffalo at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. Vancouver at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Pawtucket of the lntematlonal League.Wednesday, April 3 Sunday, April 7 Monday, April 8 
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Signed Bo Jackson, New Jersey 3, Pittsburgh 1, New Jersey leads Los Angeles at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
Montreal at Buffalo, 7:05 p.m. outfielder, to a one-year contract and placed him series 1·0 Tuesday, April 9 Wednesday, April 10 on the 60-day disabled list. Friday, April 5 Montreal at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. Los Angeles at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. CLEVELAND INDIANS-Optioned Rudy Seanez 
New Jersey at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.rn Friday, April12 
Thursday, Ap<il 1 1 and Willie Blair, phchers, to Colorado Springs of Sunday, April 7 Buffalo at Montreal, 7:35p.m., Wnecessary Vancouver at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m .. n the Pacnlc Coast League and Carlos Martinez, Pittsburgh at New Jersey, 7:45 p.rn Saturday, April 13 necessary outfielder, and Mke Walker, pitcher, to Canton­Tuesday, Aprll 9 Montreal at Buffalo, 7:35p.m .. Knecessary Sunday, April 14 Akron of the Eastern League. Sent Dave Otto, Pittsburgh at New Jersey, 7:45 p.rn Monday, April 15 Los Angeles at Vancouver, 10:05 p.m., H pitcher, to their minor-league cannp for Thursday, April 1 1 necessary
Buffalo at Montreal, 7:35p.m., Wnecessary reassignment.
New Jersey at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m., Wnecessary Tuesday, Aprll 16 TEXAS RANGERS-Sent Terry Wells, pitcher, to 
Saturday, Aprll 13 Campbell Conlerence Vancouver at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m .. n their rrinor-league camp for reassignment. Pittsburgh at New Jersey, 7:45p.m., Wnecessary necessary
Chicago vs. Minnesota National LeagueMonday, Aprll 15 Thursday, April 4 CHICAGO CUBS-Optioned Steve Wilson, phcher, New Jersey at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m., Wnecessary Minnesota at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Calgary vs. Edmonton to iowa of the American Association. 
Saturday, April 6 Thursday, April 4 HOUSTON ASTROS-Sent Bob Sabra. pitcher, to 
N.Y. 
Rangers vs. Washington Minnesota at Chicago, 8:35 p.m. Edmonton at Calgary, 9:35p.m. their rrinor-league camp for reassignment.Wednesday, April 3 Monday, April 8 Saturday, April 6 NEW YORK METS-Sent Kelvin Torve, first 

N.Y. 
Rangers 2, Washington 1, N.Y. Rangers Edmonton at Calgary, 8:05p.m. 


Chicago at Minnesota. 8:05 p.m. baseman, and Orlando Mercado, catcher, to leads series 1-0 Monday, April 8
Wednesday, April 10 Tidewater of the International League. 
Friday, April 5 Chicago at Minnesota, 8:05p.m. Calgary at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Optioned Bnuce Ruffin Washington at N.Y. Rangers, 8:35 p.m. 
Friday, April 12 Wednesday, April 10 and Bob Scanlan, p"chers, to Scranton-Wilkes­Sunday, April 7 Minnesota at Chicago, 8:35 p.m .. Knecessary Calgary at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m . Barre of the International League. Sent Danny 
N.Y. Rangers at Washington, 7:05p.m. Sunday, April 14 Friday, Aprli 12 Cox, pitcher, to Clearwater of the Florida State Tuesday, April 9 Edmonton at Calgary, 9:35p.m., Hnecessary
Chicago at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m., If necessary League.
N.Y. Rangers at Washington, 7:35p.m. Tuesday, Apnl 16 Sunday, Aprli 14 SAN DIEGO PADRES-Optioned Ricky Bones and 
Thursday, April 1 1 Minnesota at Chicago, 8:35p.m., n necessary Calgary at Edmonton, 8:05 p.m .. n necessary John Costello, p~chers, to Lao Vegas of the Pacific Washington at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m., K Tuesday, Aprll16 
Coast League. necessary Edmonton at Calgary, 9:35p.m., If necessary 
BASKElBALL 

Saturday, April 13 St. Louis vs. Detroh National Basketball Association 
N.Y. Rangers at Washington, 7:35 p.m., W Thursday, April 4 
HOUSTON ROCKETS-Activated Matt Bullard, necessary Detroit at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. 
forward, from the Injured list. Monday, April 15 Saturday, April 6 
Un"ed States Basketball LeagueWashington at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m., W Detroh at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. 

WOODEN WINNERS PHILADELPHIA SPIRIT-Named Ron Dick necessary Monday, April 8 assistant coach. 
St. Louis at Detroit, 7:35p.m. John Wooden Awn Wftlera World Basketball LeagueBoston vs. Hartfotd Wednesday, April 10 
111111-t...nyJom.an, UNLV SASKATCHEWAN STORM-Signed Everette Wednesday, April 3 St. Louis at Detroit, 7:35p.m. 1990 -Lionel Simmons, La Salle Stephens, guard. Hartford 5, Boston 2, Hartlord leads series 1-0 Friday, April 12 
1989-Sean Elnon, Arlzona FOOTBALL Friday, Aprils Detro~ at St Louis, 8:35p.m., if necessary 1988 -Danny Manning, Kansas Canadian Football LeagueHartford at Boston, 7:35 p.rn 
Sunday, April 14 1987-David Robinson, Navy HAMILTON TIGER-CATS-Named Greg Mohns 
Sunday, April 7 St. Louis at Detroh, 9:05 p.m., n necessary 1988-Waher Berry, St. John's director of player personnel. Signed Brian Hlk and Boston at Hartford, 7:35 p.rn Tuesday, Aprli 16 1985 -Chris Mullin, St. John's 
John Monon, linebackers. Tuesday, April 9 Detro~ at St Louis, 8:35p.m., n necessary 1984-Michael Jordan, North Carolina HOCKEY 
Boston at Hartford, 7:35 p.rn 1983 -Ralph SarJ1)SOn, Virginia National Hockey League Thursday, April 1 1 
1982 -Ralph SarJ1)SOn, Virginia MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Announced the Hartfotd at Boston, 7:35p.m., Wnecessary 1981 -Danny Alnge, Brigham Young resignation of Lou Nanna, senior vice president. Saturday, April 13 
1980 -Darrell Grlffhh, Louisville WASHINGTON CAPITALS-Recalled Jim Hrivnak, Boston at Hartlotd, 7:35 p.m .. Wnecessary 1979-Larry Bird, indiana State goa"ender, from Bahimore of the American Hockey
Monday, April 1 5 1 978 -Phil Ford, North Carolina League.Hartlotd at Boston, 7:35 p.m .. Knecessary t9n-Marques Johnson, UCLA 
California 
Chicago 2,243,791 29,140 Chicago 25,346 Cincinnati 2,400,892 30,781 Cleveland 1,225,241 16,337 Houston 1,310,927 16,184 Detroit 1,495,785 18,697 Los Angeles 3,002,396 37,067 Kansas City 2,244,956 28,781 Montreal 1,421 ,388 17,548 Milwaukee 1,752,900 22,189 New York 2,732,745 35,490 Minnesota 1,750,964 21,887 Philadelphia 1 ,992,484 25,876 New York 2,006,436 25,080 Pittsburgh 2,049,908 26,281 Oakland 2,900,217 36,253 St. Louis 2,573,495 31 ,n2 Seattle 1,509,705 18,638 
San Diego 1 ,856,395 23.499 Texas 
IS NOW ACCEPTING 
APPLICATIONS FOR EMPLOYMENT 
FOR THE 1991-92 SCHOOL YEAR 
Pick up an application in the flower shop -our hours are 12:30 to 5:30 Monday-Saturday. Submission deadline is April 13th. 
People needed for sales clerks and deliveries . 
j} group of gay, qs6iatt;i anafJJisezy.al SnufeniS, ~acufty, atufStaff 
AP/Martha P. Hernandez 
not ~en a group (ac­cording to the administration) we can't have General MHtlngs. But it we were to, they would be a chance lor everyone in our group to get together and discuss uproming projects, lectum, and nents in a friendly and unthreatening forum. Along with providing an opportu­nity to plan and announce group activities, the General Meetinp would also be a time to meet other people like yourself. 
If we were going to have a General Meetmg, wh1ch we're not, 11 would be on Sunday, 7 April1991. 
It you don't want more information on this meeting that we're not go­ing to have, please don't call one of the numbers listed below or don't write to us. (Even groups which don't exist have post office boxes.) 
Of course, confidentiality is always gWlrantecd. 
Ir---------------, 
' 
' cut ••d poste logo her<
' 
I I from previous 
I 12dvertisements 
I ' 
• tht 1141mi"istration won't! ld us print it now... 
I I I 
L---------------~ 

For more informarion, you can still call: 
Mike237-o1tltl 
C.rot 232-3330 
Michoel237-1864 
Or write to us at: 

.. 
---------~---~ --~­
Thursday, April 4, 1991 The Observer page 17 


Elder Ryan gets fastball clocked at 92 mph in matchup vs. son 
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) -Nolan Hyan ligures his son Heid is a better 19-year-old pitcher than he was in the early 1960s as a skinny, wild fastballer. 
"Heid is a much better pitcher than I was at that age," Nolan said. "lie has better command of his pitches. lie knows where he is throwing the ball. I had no idea. 
"I had no curve and no change and he does." 
Heid came out second best to his future flail of Farner father and learned a valuable lesson in the process Tuesday night when the Texas Rangers beat the Texas Longhorns 12-5. 
"I don't think I'll ever be able to throw the ball as fast as he does," said Reid. "I realize now I have to become a pitcher not a thrower." 
Ryan, a freshman at Texas, gave up four runs in two in­nings and trailed 4-1 to his dad when he left the game. Two of the runs came off broken bat hits and a pop fly single. 
Nolan, who led 5-3 when he retired after throwing 111 

SYRACUSE, N.Y.-Billy Owens' father says he will not stand in his son's way if All-America from Syracuse decides to enter the NBA draft a year early. Bill Owens Sr. maintained since his son's arrival at Syracustl that the 6-foot-9 junior would complete h' studies toward a degree. However, the elder Owens said during the Final Four in Indianapolis that he would not interfere if his son gives up his final year of eligibility. ''If he has it in his mind that he really wants to leave and he's going to be satisfied with that, tlwn I'm not going to have a problem with it," the elder Owens told the SyracusfJ Post-Standard. "We have to sit down as a family and he has to convince me that he really wants to leave," hfl said. ''I'm not softening on it,~ the father said of his stance that Billy stay four years. "I still would like to see him get his education." Owens has until May 12 to declare whether he will enter June's draft. 
Weatherspoon st,lng at Southern Mississippi 
HATTIESBURG,Iss. -Clarence Weatherspoon, .two-time player-of-the-year in the Metro Conference, ended speculation Wednesday that he would enhlr the NBA draft, vowing to stay at Southern Mississippi for his senior year. "Making this decisio was not as hard as some people might think.~ Weatherspoon said In a statement. "Certainly, I want to play in the NBA, but completing my education here at USM is also very important to me. Coach M.K. Turk welcomed the announcemtmt. "Clarence has played a major role for us the last thrtle seasons and while we want only the best for him, we are pleased he feels the right place for him next year is here at USM," Turk sald. Last season, Weatherspoon averagod 17.8 points and 12.2 rebounds a game as he won his third straight Metro Conference rebounding title. 
Rockets' Maxwell considering options 
HOUSTON-Houston Hockets guard Vernon Maxwell is threatnnlng to leave the NBA club if it does not renegotiate his eontract, which pays him $200,000 this season. "Right now, 1 feel like walking away from It all," Maxwell told the Houston Chronicle. ''I'd do it. It's possible. Sometimes, you've got to do what you've got to do." Maxwell. who has played-a key role in the Hockets' socond-half surge, said a new deal was supposed to be worked out in February. Maxwell said he is underpaid compared to other starting shooting guards in the NBA. · 
lhe Adverti~ing tducation roundation Aba~~ador Program and lhe College of Bu~ine~~ Admini~tration'~ Department of MarKeting 
Pre~ent~: 
Richard C. 
Ward 
President, Ross Roy Communications, Inc. 
.. The Facts About Ethics In Advertising.. 
April 4, 1991 • 7:30 pm Hayes-Healy Auditorium 


pitches, went five innings giving up live hits and three runs. He walked three and struck out seven. 
"I'm not happy with the way I pitched but I have to put it in perspective against who I was pitching against," Reid said. 
"It was fun and something I'll always remember. It was frus­trating because of so~e of the cheap hits they got against me. They didn't rip the ball." 
It was the first known pitching duel between a major leaguer and his son. The only father­son combination to appear in the big leagues at the same time is Ken Griffey Sr. and Jr. 
Nolan said he felt like· Reid bested him. "I was pleased with the way Reid threw and I thought he 
pitched better than I did," the senior Ryan said. "He got some bad breaks on a couple of those hits. He did a good job." 
"My intensity level was not there. I think I was probably distracted watching him. It's two different mind sets and I prefer competing to being a spectator." 
Nolan was clocked at 92 mph in the first inning, while Reid's best was 84 mph on the radar gun. 
"It was fun, a big thrill going against your son, but I'm re­lieved its over," Nolan said. "I thought Reid really kept his composure. But I'm not sure I want to do this again next year." 
Reid agreed. 
"It was probably a bigger thrill for me than my dad," Reid said. "I enjoyed it and I'm sad it was over. But it will be nice to go to class without anybody following me around." 
Nolan opens the season for the Hangers next Monday night against Milwaukee. 
"I was disappointed I didn't pitch a little better," the senior Ryan said. "I would have liked a little more peace of mind go­ing into the regular season. But I guarantee you my inte-nsity will be up then." 
The senior Ryan won't pitch again until he faces the Brewers. He will rest at his house in Alvin, Texas, until next Friday when he resumes workouts in Arlington. 

Nolan Ryan and son Reid discuss their performances in an exhibition match between the Texas Rangers and the University of Texas Longhorns. The elder tossed 111 pitches in the first known mound duel between a major league pitcher and his son. 
eorgetown 
UNIVERSITY 
School for Summer and .________,IContinutn[!. F-ducation 
Please send mon: infonnation on: 
Programs ar Grorgeroru>n l'rogrom.r ahroad 
_Over ZOO ~raduate and _Antwerp. Bcl~tum-lnt'l. Trade 
undergraduate t•ourscs _ Chma-( ~hincse LanguJgc _Public Affairs lntern>htps and Culture _ II i~h Schooll'ro~ra•m _Tours, Francc-l.anguagc _ lnrercultural Traimng and Culture _·Interpretation and _ Ficsole. ltalv·ltalian 
Translation Institute _ Greece-llumanitie!t 
_ Language Courses _Oxford, England--{:omparalivc _Theology Conference Business (undergraduate) _ Literary Criticism Conference _Oxford, England-International _Institute for ll.S. Teachers Management (graduate) _Institute on Sacred Scripture 
_Quito, Ecuador-Spanish _Alumni College _Trier, Germany-German _English as a Foreign _Middle East-ll.S. Teachers 
Language _ Leningrad, USSR-Russian 
_Helping Families Cope; Language and Culture Ethical and Pastoral Care _Hong Kong-lnt'l. Business Issues in Genetics _Leicester, England-Shakespeare 
Sessions Pre-May 20-June 14 Call (202) 6H7-.'i942 or mail 10: First-June 10-July 12 SSCE-Georgetown University 8-Week Cross Session-306lntercultural Center 
june 10-August 2 Washington, D.C. 200.'i7 Second-july IS-August 16 FAX: (202)6H7-H9.'i4 
NAME ________________________________ ADDRESS __________________ 
CITY-----------STATE ____ ZIP_---~-­
(,'rorypoa••n f!nttvrslf\' t~ Off tqual opportlltrtfY offtrmattt·r tlrft011 tnllr/11/Wff 
, rmplo1•mmt tlnd tulmi.wotu. 

-

--~-~-----­
page 18 The Observer 
SARASOTA, Fla. (AP) ­Boston has its Bosox, but Chicago now has the Bo Sox. 
Bo Jackson, again denying a serious hip injury has ended his two-sport career, signed a free­agent contraCt Wednesday with the Chicago White Sox. The one-year contract with options for 1992 and 1993 pays Jackson even if he doesn't play this season. 
Jackson, an All-Star outfielder who has also spent four years wearing the Los Angeles Raiders' silver and black, promises he'll wear the White Sox's white and black -and soon. 
"Right now, I feel like a caged animal, I can't wait for them to open the chutes and let me go and do what I've been doing my whole life, and that's running," Jackson said at a news confer­ence, a Sox cap atop his head and a Sox jersey slung across his shoulder. 
"It's hard for me to get up in the morning and pick up my other set of legs (his crutches) to walk on. I'd rather throw them in the garbage." 
Jackson, 28, the only athlete of his generation who has suc­cessfully paired All-Star ca­reers in baseball and the NFL, injured his left hip while being tackled from being in a Raiders-Cincinnati Bengals playoff game on Jan. 13 
He has been on crutches since and, when waived by the Kansas City Royals last month, was said to be suffering from avascular necrosis, the partial loss to blood supply to the ball in the ball-and-socket joint. 
Doctors have speculated Jackson will never play football or baseball again, but Jackson's physican, sports specialist Dr. James Andrews of Birmingham, Ala., was critical of those "doom and gloom" re­ports. 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
takes them a year to get going," Danapilis concludes. 
Danapilis grew up following the Detroit Tigers, but the player that he attempts to model himself after comes from a different era in baseball. 
"The person I try to model myself after is Willie Mays. He's a guy who could do everything in the outfield." 
According to Murphy, "Danapilis is about as good a pro prospect as you will fmd." 
Danapilis does not have a particular team that he desires to play for, just one that is not heavily stacked with outfielders in their system. There are things that he feels he needs to work on, though, to be a solid major leaguer. 
"I'm a line drive hitter, but as I grow stronger and learn to hit better, I'll hit more home runs," he says. 
Although he has these great
-expectations, his attitude about life is refreshing in comparison to many of today's college ath­letes. "My number one goal is to graduate from college. That's why I'm here. I want to make it to the majors, but a lot of peo­ple get there, but don't stay there. So if I don't stay, at least I'll have my degree to fall back on. A Notre Dame degree is very special to a lot of people, especially to me," says Danapilis. When one looks at Danapilis's past success and the intensity with which he ap­proaches life and baseball, there is little doubt that his goals will soon become reality. 
-

"We have had some very fa­vorable information relative to the prognosis of Bo's hip," Andrews said. " We think Bo has an excellent potential to heal ... (and) the White Sox have been willing to accept the risk. 
White Sox general manager Ron Schueler convinced owner Jerry Reinsdorf a week ago to spend considerable dough on the ailing Bo, saying, "Any time you can get an athlete of Bo's caliber, you've got to take that gamble. If he can bounce back, we've made a great gamble." 
Financial terms of the deal were not immediately available. 
Doctors will decide at the All­Star break if Jackson can play this season, but "realistically, we don't expect him until 1992,' Schueler said. 
"We won't risk his condition just to meet some timetable," said Dr. James Boscardin, the White Sox's orthopedic sur­geon. "He'll be on the field when his hip is ready." 
"My prognosis has come a long way since the injury," Jackson said. "I'm able to walk with no pain. They won't let me go out and run -yet. But things are coming along great." 
Jackson's contract is struc­tured so "he'll be reimbursed very, very well," when he plays, Schueler said. The agreement includes "shared risk by both parties" -i.e. Chicago will pay Jackson even if can't play im­mediately. 
The contract doesn't bar Jackson, who has a year left on his $7.4 million Raiders' con­tract, from playing football again. 
"We can't prevent that (Bo playing football), but we can protect ourselves, and we have," Schueler said. 
Raiders executive assistant AI LoCasale said Wednesday the team expects Jackson at the • "middle of the season, just as we have the past four seasons. 
"The Raiders are confident he has the best medical advice and care possible. We expect he will play football again this fall, and be a major contributor to the Raiders in the second half of the season and help us return to the playoffs." 
Richard Woods, Jackson's agent, said about half the teams in baseball contacted him after the Royals, fearful Jackson's hip injury was ca­reer-ending, released him. 

With joy and thanksgiving the Congregation of Holy cross and the families of 
John J. Donato, C.S.C. 
David L. Guffey, C.S.C. 
Paul V. Kollman, C.S.C. 
Patrick M. Neary, C.S.C. 
announce the ordination of our brothers and sons for service to the people of God 
Through the ancient Christian signs of laying on of hands and the prayer of the Church the Office of the Presbyter will be conferred by The most Reverend Paul E. Waldschmidt, C.S.C., S.T.D. Auxiliary Bishop of Portland in oregon 
on saturday, April 6, 1991 at Sacred Heart Church Notre-Dame, Indiana 
Rev. John Donato, CSC Addison, Illinois  Rev..David Guffey, CSC Mt. Carroll, Illinois  Rev. Paul Kollman, CSC Cincinnati, Ohio  Rev. Patrick Neary, CSC laPorte, Indiana  
UNO '86 '90  UNO '84 '90  UNO '84 '90  'UNO '85  


• 

Thursday, April 4, 1991 The Observer page 19 
Neon Deion gets starting nod, will be leadoff hitter for Atlanta 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) -Nobody called a news eonferenee. There were no bold prndictions. With little fanfare, tlw Atlanta Braves simply said WPdnesday that Deion Sanders was their starting left fielder and leadoff hitter. 
With that. the Atlanta Fakons' "Prime Time" corner­back had accomplished his goal: bflcoming thB first pro athletB to play football and bas!~ball in the same city, on thn samn finld. 
Cmw Conley had pitched for the Braves in Boston and played basketball for the Celtics thnre, but on diiTerBnt playing surfaces. 
"It's one of the biggBst ac­eomplishments of my life, probably the biggest," said Sanders. the Falcons' No. 1 NFL draft pick two years ago. "It's like the motto I've got taped inside my football helmet: You gotta believe." 
Sanders believed from the first day of spring training he would make the club, even though the Braves had him ticketnd for their Triple A club in Hichmond, Va., after signing him as a non-roster player for $650,000. 
"Against all odds," he said. "I was written oiT." 
Sanders hit .158 in 57 games with the New York Yankees last s11ason and . 321 in 22 games with Triple A Columbus. Then he was releas11d by the Yankees last Sept. 24. 
Braves general manager John Schuerholz. who had said he would not make a decision on Sanders until Friday, simply said "yes" when asked Wednesday if the speedy out­fielder had made the club for Tuesday's opening night game against Los Angeles at Atlanta­Fulton County Stadium. 
"He's a guy, obviously, who plays up to a challenge," said Schuerholz. "And the challenge was there." 
Sanders, whose fondness for gold jewelry and expensive sports cars prompted some to question his attitude during his first season with the Falcons, has been relatively subdued with the Braves. 
"lie's been great," said Schuerholz. "He's hard work­ing; as a matter of fact, he's worked as hard as anybody in camp." 
Sanders, who hit his first homer of the spring Tuesday, was batting .281 in 57 at-bats going into Wednesday's exhibi­tion game. 
"I've got a long way to go," said Sanders, who returned to Atlanta Thursday for a corti­sone shot in his left shoulder. ''I'm not going to say I feel comfortable, but I was hoping to get a good shot and that hope was not denied." 
He also credited the Braves with taking the time to work with him on his bunting, field­ing and hitting the ball to left field. 
"They made me believe I could play this game," he said. "My hard work paid off. and then another player unfortu­nately got injured and the chips fell my way." 
That player was Lonnie Smith, who hit .305 last season but underwent arthroscopic surgery on his left knee last week and will be on the dis­abled list until April 14. 
When Smith returns, what happens to Sanders? 
"I don't know," said Schuerholz. "I have no idea. We'll just have to see what Lonnie can do when he returns, and find out the circumstances with the team at that time." 
But for now, Sanders is the man. 
"Right now, he's our leadoff hitter on opening night," said manager Bobby Cox. "He brings excitement and speed, and hopefully he'll continue to hit like he has." 
The tendinitis in his shoulder caused only slight concern. 
"He has a tender shoulder and went to Atlanta to see (team doctor) Joe Chandler," manager Bobby Cox said. "He'll be back tonight and will be in the lineup Friday. There's no problem." 
Of more concern was the state of Sanders' father, Mims. The 48-year-old man was ordered held on $5,000 bond Wednesday after Lee County, Fla., sheriff's detectives found crack cocaine on his tongue. 

Detectives also discovered a rock of crack and a pipe for smoking the drug inside a black 1990 Corvette registered to Deion Sanders and parked at the North Fort Myers motel where Mims Sanders was stay­ing, Lee County sheriff's spokeswoman Geraldine Poole said. 
Deion Sanders could not im­mediately be reached. 
Olajuwon's 22 points, 22 rebounds lead Houston; Sixers win 


is looking for students interested in the paid position of 
Purchasing Agent 
Freshman and sophomore business majors interested in gaining valuable business and managerial experience which could possibly lead to promotion within the business department should contact Gil Gomez at 239-7471 for more information. 
SPRING POOL TOURNAMENT 
April 08-09 
MEN'S & WOMEN'S BRACKETS 
GREAT PRIZES 
LAST SIGN-UP DAY SAT APR. 06 
GORCH GAMES ROOM BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 
HOUSTON (AP) -Hakeem Olajuwon had 22 points and 22 rebounds, and the Houston Rockets survived Dallas' third­quarter charge to beat the Mavericks 102-86 Wednesday night. 
Olajuwon got 20-plus re­bounds for the sixth time this season and Vernon Maxwell led Houston in scoring with 27 points as the Rockets won for the 15th time in 16 games and pulled within a half-game of first-place San Antonio in the Midwest Division. 
The Mavericks. led by Rolando Blackman with 20 points, lost for the 12th time in 15 games and extended their road losing streak to seven. 
Olajuwon took charge with 17 points and 12 rebounds in the first half, keying the Rockets, who never trailed, to a 52-35 advantage at halftime. 
The Rockets increased the margin to 62-41 with 8:47 to go in the third period, but the Mavericks outscored Houston 20-6 to close to 68-61 with 2:21 left in the quarter. 
The Rockets overcame score­less streaks of 2:20 and 2:19 to lead 77-61 at the end of the third period. 
76ers 107, Pacers 1 04 
Hon Anderson came off the bench to score 23 of his 27 points in the first half as Philadelphia, playing without Charles Barkley and Rick Mahorn, beat Indiana. 
The 76ers handed the Pacers their 11th loss in 37 home games despite the absence of Barkley, out for at least two weeks with a sprained ankle, and Mahorn, who has a bruised right heel. 
Indiana fell behind by 14 points early in the third quar­ter, but took an 89-87 lead on four straight points by Reggie Miller. 
Philadelphia then scored the next five points to take the lead for good, 92-89, on a free throw by Hersey Hawkins with 
5:29 remaining. 
Armon Gilliam had 22 points and 12 rebounds for the 76ers. Detlef Schrempf scored 21 points and Miller 19 for Indiana. 
Cavaliers 95, Knicks 84 
Larry Nance scored 10 of his 22 points in the fourth quarter. leading Cleveland over New York. 
The Cavaliers, who trailed by 16 points in the second quarter, took the lead at 65-63 on a jumper by Nance with 2:11 left in the third period. They stayed on top the rest of the way aftBr a 3-pointer by Henry James broke a 65-65 tie with 50 sec­onds left in the quarter. 
James hit another 3-pointer on Cleveland's next possession for a 71-67 lead going into the final 12 minutes. 
Kiki Vandeweghe led the Knicks with 23 points, while Patrick Ewing added 15 points and 10 rebounds, but scored only one point in the fourth pe­riod. 
Attention Sophomores and Juniors interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
-
Prof. Walter Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Thursday,April4,1991 
5:30p.m. 
1 01 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 

page 20 The Observer 
Maradona says career finished 
Argentinian soccer star still receiving great fan support 

--~---­
Thursday, April 4, 1991 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina (AP) -Diego Maradona was quoted Wednesday as saying he will not play professional soc­cer again, and Argentina's president said that he would not make a quick judgment on the fallen star's future. 
A day after Maradona re­turned home to Argentina, offi­cials in Europe and South America continued to debate what should happen to the 30­year-old forward, who faces a suspension of six months to two years because of cocaine use. 
In a interview published in Wednesday's Corriere della Sera, a daily newspaper in Milan, Italy, Maradona said his career was over. 
"I had enough. I am tired of struggling. I am retiring for good," he said. The newspaper said Maradona made his re­marks during an interview on his flight home. 
"Now I want to enjoy life, I want to enjoy my daughters," Maradona said. 
Meanwhile, dozens of fans gathered near Maradona's house and chanted his name as they used to when he played in Argentina. Argentina president 
Salary 
continued from page 24 
There is no instant replay to overrule the arbitrator. Bonds knew the risks if he didn't settle with the Pirates and gambled that he would win in arbitration. 
As for Henderson, he really has nobody to blame but him­self. He saw the salary escalation unfolding all around him, and still he signed the deal. And now that the A's expect him to live up to the contract, he walks out, demanding, essentially, that they bail him out of his own stupidity. 
Wouldn't it be nice if we could walk in to our boss' office and say, "I didn't realize salaries would go up so quickly when I signed my contract. If you don't give me a raise, I walk"? We all know what our boss' answer would be too. I can hear the laughter echoing in his/her office now. 
But, then again, we're not Rickey Henderson, who is one of the five best players-if not the best-in baseball today. 
Remember, though, the old saying, "Pride goeth before the fall." If players' pride insists on driving salaries ever higher, baseball could face a situation similar to the NBA did a few years ago, with teams on the brink of bankruptcy and the league ready to fold. 
To solve the problem, the NBA instituted a salary cap, in which players would receive a guaranteed minimum percent­
-
age of revenues, but the total team payroll could not exceed the cap-with certain exceptions. For example, a team may go beyond the cap to retain one of its own free agents. 
The league has skyrocketed in popularity since then, with most teams now showing a profit. And it's not like NBA players are starving, either: the average NBA salary is around $700,000. 
Instituting a salary cap would help end this destructive game of one-upsmanship in baseball as well. And maybe we baseball fans can get back to reading about the sport itself. 
·• 
Carlos Menen, who named Maradona his sports ambas­sador last year, said he would not rush to judgment. 
"Until there is a legal sen­tence, you have to presume his innocence," Menem said. 
The president said that even if Maradona is suspended for having used a banned sub­stance, "he shouldn't be cruci­fied, but helped." 
Antonio Alegre, president of Maradona's former club, Boca Juniors, wants a hero's recep­tion for the most well-known Argentinian in the world. 
"I invited Maradona to the stadium Friday to be welcomed as he deserves," Alegre said. 
Maradona played his first game for Argentina's national team at age 15. Five years later he led Boca Juniors to the Argentinian League title, and in 1979 he took Argentina to the world youth championship. 
"Maradona is an idol for every fan and they have to be at his side," said Julio Grondona, president of the Argentine Soccer Association. 
Maradona's lawyer, Enzo Maria Siniscalchi, said he ex­pects the minimum penalty for Maradona, saying cocaine can't be considered performance-en­hancing if taken several hours before a game. 
"We will not appeal the sen­tence if Maradona is given the minimum penalty," Siniscalchi told Gazzetta dello Sport, a Milan sports daily. 
Juan Simon, a defender on several World Cup teams with Maradona, said the star's former teammates would de­fend him. 
"All of us who every played with him give him our support in this difficult moment," Simon said. 
Even Maradona's former op­ponents rallied to his side. 
"The bitter aspect of this case is that soccer has lost a pro­tagonist," said Lothar Matthaeus, the captain of Germany's national team. 
"He has been the greatest soccer player I ever saw in ac­tion," said Luca di Montezemolo, the head of the 1990 World Cup Organizing Committee. "I want to thank him for what he has done to soccer, whatever the outcome of this case can be." 

m~©GS. rnrrru®miT 1rJJJill®W®JJJ Jla~®~ITruiD 
Display &Presentation 
Monday, April 8th Theodore's 
Display: 1:00 p.m. -4:30 p.m. Presentation: "l:OO p.m. Fireside Chat (lunch provided) : Noon· 1 p.m. 
isplay Items From the Collection of Vanessa Durgan 
Free Admission to All Events For More Information, Call 239-7308 



Thursday, April 4, 1991 The Observer page 21 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Irish Heartlites fun runs arc coming up April 11. There will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Studcnlc; and staiT should start training now. 
An Tostal mud volleyball sing-ups will be held Thursday and Friday April 4 and 5 from 4 to 6 pm in the S.U.B. office. For more Information call Lou at 283-2071. Minimum two women per team. Entry charge is $5 per team. 
ND/SMC Salllng Club: a reminder to sailing team members, there will be mandatory practice Thursday at 3:00 pm at the boathouse. 
Women's Bookstore Basketball schedules should be picked up this Thursday and Friday in the S.U.B. office at ND and the 
S.A.B. at SMC. 
The NO Cricket Club and the India Association are holding a match Sunday, April 7 at noon on Red Field. All are invited to come and watch. For information, call Mark at 283-3419 or Tim at 283-1556. 
Attention all ND/SMC sailors: The Michigan City Regatta has been moved to Notre Dame. Anyone interested in helping, sailing, or housing people should contact Moira at 284-5224. The regatta will take place Saturday, April 6. 
Free swimming classes for women will be held on Tuesdays and Thursdays from April 9-25. Anyone interested should contact Dennis J. Stark at 239-5983. 
Former Oxford Cricketer Dr. Walshe will hold a discussion Tuesday April 9 at 8 pm in 115 O'Shaughnessy. All are welcome to attend. 
Syracuse adds to mishaps 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) -The hiring of a former Syracuse player as a graduate assistant has been added to the alleged Improprieties the university Is Investigating in its basketball program, a spokesman said. 
Marty Byrnes, a star forward on coach Jim Boeheim's first teams at Syracuse in the late 1970s, held neither an under­graduate degree nor was en­rolled In graduate school when he became a graduate assistant for the 1989-90 season, according to a report in today's Syracuse Post-Standard. 
"We apparently made an error In the way In which we pro­cessed (Byrnes') employment," Hobert IIIII, a Syracuse spokesman, said. 
NCAA rules require that prospective graduate assistants must hold bachelor's degrees and be enrolled as graduate students. 

That rule is designed to pre­vent schools from disguising assistant coaches as graduate assistants. The NCAA limits schools to two full-time assis­tants. 
Byrnes said he returned to Syracuse in 1989 after 11 years a professional player and coJ;D­pleted the 15 credit hours he needed for an undergraduate degree. 
But he said he never applied to graduate school. Nor has he done the paperwork to receive his undergraduate degree. 
"The epitome of laziness,' Byrnes said. 
is currently seeking Saint Mary's students who are interested in becoming involved as: 
Saint Mary's News Writers 
We will have an informational meeting April 10 at 8 p.m. in Room 304 Haggar Hall, Saint Mary's. If you have questions or are interested but cannot attend the meeting, contact Emily Willett at 284-5086, or Monica Yant at 239-5303. 
1991 
SUMMER SESSIONS BROCHURES NOUJ nun ILADLE 
Courses offered In areas of: 
Arts & Sciences Business Education Professional Studies 
For more Information, call or write: 
Xavier University Summer Sessions 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, Ohio 45207 (513) 745-3601 
Tarpley disputes police 
DALLAS (AP) -Dallas Mavericks forward Hoy Tarpley admits he violated the provi­sions of his drug treatment after-care program by drinking on the night of his arrest on charges of drunken driving, but denies he was intoxicated. 
Tarpley, who has twice vio­lated the NBA's anti-drug policy and is recuperating from a sea­son-ending knee injury, also said that if he drinks again, he won't leave the house. 
Tarpley has disputed police accounts of his arrest Saturday morning, but does acknowledge he drank three beers before going out that night. Police said he was unruly and refused a Breathalyzer or blood test, but failed five field sobriety tests. 
Tarpley said he cooperated with police, but was nervous and distracted because of the crowd of about 80 people watching the scene. He said that in one test he was standing solely on his injured leg, which 
Walls come 
Chicago's historic Comiskey Park 
CHICAGO (AP) -The walls of old Comiskey Park came tum­bling down today. 
A wrecking ball started swinging against the stadium -the major leagues' oldest park-at 10 a.m. CST, mark­ing the end of more than 80 years of baseball history. 
Scores of Chicagoans -clad in business suits, work clothes and even a clown costume ­stood nearby and watched the wrecking ball as it hit the sta­dium's southeast side, where the right-field stands met the first-base side. 
"I'm a Cubs fan, ... but I hate to see this," said one onlooker. 
The demolition work got un­der way just hours before re­porters were allowed to tour the new Comiskey Park across the street. 
The White Sox will play their first game in the new Comiskey Park on April 18 against the Detroit Tigers. 
Old Comiskey was opened July 1, 1910. An upper deck was added in 1927. 

caused him to wobble. 
Tarpley's attorney, Jay Ethington, said he may file a complaint with the Police­Citizens Review Board and the police department's internal af­fairs division for the "insinuations and innuendos" made by police officials about Tarpley's arrest. 
In a statement issued Tuesday, Dallas Police Chief William Rathburn said: "We have filed this case with the district attorney's office. It is now appropriate to let the criminal justice process run its course. We have no intention of trying this case in the media." 
Meanwhile, Mavericks owner Donald Carter said he supports the police and he and Tarpley "need to talk." 
Carter, in his first comments about Tarpley's arrest, said Tuesday he would be upset if Tarpley and his lawyer tried to defame Dallas police. 
"I don't know the facts yet, 
tumbling down at 

CULTURAL CALENDAR 1990•1991 
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
Speedway Wrecking Co., the Chicago contractor hired to demolish the stadium, has been working inside the aging facility for about a month. 
"There's definitely mixed emo­tions," said Larry Kolko of Speedway. "But ... by the time we're through with this demoli­tion, maybe we'll be playing a World Series across the street." 
Speedway has been disman­tling parts of the stadium's in­terior since March 1, said Tim Homan!, deputy director of the Illinois Sports Facilities Authority. He said the wrecking would take six to eight months. 
"I have a nostalgic feeling like most people," Romani said. "But this is overshadowed by my excitement over entering the new stadium. The new stadium is just a fabulous facility." 
The site of the old park will become a parking lot. Ramps will be provided so that fans can safely walk over a. South 


All performances in O'Laughlin Auditorium unless noted. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, in O'Laughlin, Mon.-Fri., 10-4. Visa/MasterCard: 284-4626. For updated program information, call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline: 674-0900, category 1740. 
--f!i 
Saint Mary's Col leg~ 
NOTRE OAME ·I NDIAt\A 
accounts 
but I will support the Dallas Police Department," Carter said. "A person is innocent until proven guilty. He (Tarpley) will get his day in court. ... The Dallas Police Department, I don't think they deserve any sm"udging by any of our players 
Drinking alcohol is a violation of Tarpley's after-care program. The ASAP Family Treatme]lt Center in Van Nuys, Calif., the a_dministrative arm of the NBA's substance abuse program, has talked to Tarpley about the incident. 
Tarpley could face suspension and fines for violating terms of his after-care. 
He was suspended without pay for 33 games last season as a result of his Nov. 15, 1989, arrest for DWI. Tarpley re­ceived two years' probation, and faces a May 6 revocation hearing as a result of his latest arrest. 
Side city street to enter the new stadium. 
Comiskey Park was named after former White Sox owner Charles Comiskey who built the ballpark. 
Old Comiskey also was the home of the former Chicago Cardinals pro football team as well as heavyweight champi­onship fights, rock concerts and the first baseball All-Star Game in 1933. 
Hobby 
continued from page 24 
showed that she was getting tired." 
Nonetheless, the season has to be viewed as a success for the junior from Beavercreek, Ohio. The Belles made the jump from NAJA competition to NCAA Division III competition this season, and Cummins, who was an NAIA All-American as a sophomore, had to deal with tougher competition this year. 
Iler teammates--or maybe the fact that she had teammates-­helped her through it. A season ago Cummins was the only diver on the Saint Mary's squad, and the monotony of practicing by herself took its toll. When Erin Mahoney, Kelly Collins and Kathleen Golskl joined her at the pool for this year's campaign, though, the trials and tribulations of prac­tice became a lot more bear­able. 
"It made a big difference," Cummins says. "If I was going to dive again this year, I wanted somebody to dive with, and since I did have teammates this year, I think it helped me improve quite a bit." 
Cummins realizes that there is still room for a lot more im­provement. She wants to per­fect new dives, Including a Back 
-
2 1/2 and a Double Twisting 1 1/2, and she plans to change a couple of positions on the three-meter board to Increase her degree of difficulty and im­prove her scores. 
"She needs to develop some more difficult dives," Slattery says. "She has made a good start on some of those, but she is not ready to do a Back 2 1/2 yet in competition, and we need to restructure some of her twisting dives so they will be a little bit sharper." 
If she can do that, there is no telling how proficient Cummins could become at her hobby. 
-------~
~--------------------------------------------------------------~------------------~--------­
page 22 The Observer Thursday, April 4, 1991 
Irish hockey presents awards; Louder gets MVP 
Special to the Observer 
Freshman goalie Greg Louder garnered two of the Notre Dame hockey team's more prestigious awards this season. Louder was named both Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable Player of this year's squad. 
Louder, a fifth-round draft choice of the Edmonton Oilers in 1990, allowed 4.11 goals per game with a save percentage of .87 4. 
Other awards presented: Most Improved Player-Scott Vickman; Best Defensive Forward-Sterling Black; Best Defenseman-Eric Gregoire and Matt Osiecki. Also, the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph County named Carl Picconatto and Vickman its student-

GREG LOUDER 
athlete award winners. 
Next year's captains have also been announced. Defenseman Kevin Patrick, the team captain last year before a knee injury ended his season, again will assume that duty, while David Bankoske and Mike Curry will serve as assistant captains. 


Brown upholds decision on Clemens suspension 
WINTER HAVEN, Fla.(AP)­He also said: "I wasn't lying 
Roger Clemens said Wednesday and there was fabrication in he was confused and shocked the umpires' report. That's the by American League president bottom line." Bobby Brown's decision 
upholding a five-game suspen­sion and a $10,000 rme for the pitcher's actions in Game 4 of ~ the playoffs. 
Declaring that Brown had ~ "come down hard on me," the two-time Cy Young Award win­ner said he would carry his ap­~ peal to commissioner Fay 
I ~ 
Vincent. 
"Let someone hear it that has a more open mind," Clemens said after allowing Pittsburgh just one hit in five scoreless in­nings in his final tuneup for ~ Monday's season opener in ~ Toronto. "I didn't expect it, I'm ~ kind of surprised at some of the things in the statement.' ~ 
Brown upheld his suspension ~ on Wednesday, saying Clemens' actions after he was ejected 
I
couldn't be condoned. Clemens charged umpires Terry Cooney and Jim Evans. ~ 
"Now, instead of the ejection ~ it seems he's directing all the 
~ 
penalties toward what hap­pened after the ejection in the game," Clemens said. "If the ~ ejection had never happened, 
I ~ 
the other things wouldn't have 
~ 
happened. I don't know how he expected a person to react. I'm sure Dr. Brown understands that, too, but he pretty much was married to his decision without knowing all the facts." 
Asked if thought he received a fair deal by having Brown, the ~ original judge in the case, rule on the appeal, Clemens said: 
"No, I don't think I got a fair shake that way, but I was 
I 
happy to be able to tell the true 
~ 
story." 
Clemens admitted that he pushed an arm away when ~ "somebody grabbed me" and he used "maybe some language afterwards." But, he added,
-I ~ 
"there was a. lot of language from a lot o(feople." He also sii61: "I wasn't lying 
I 
and there was fabrication in the umpireJ~:,~port. That's the bottom line/!i;l~·, 
I 
Cort9Ction 
An article in yesterday's Observer incorrectly reported that pole ·vaattitr Greg Matteo failed to clear a height at the 
I I ~
Meeting of the Minds Invitational. Matteo won the event, clearing a height of 13­
6. The Observer regrets the error. 
UNLV's Johnson snags Wooden 
O'Neal second in voting for top college hoops award 
LOS ANGELES (AP) ­Admitting it was not the prize he wanted most, UNLV's Larry Johnson nevertheless called it a great honor when he was pre­sented with the John Wooden Award as college basketball's player of the year Wednesday. 
Johnson received the award, given by the Los Angeles Athletic Club, four days after the Runnin' Rebels lost to Duke 79-77 in the semifinals of the NCAA tournament. Duke went on to beat Kansas 72-65 to win the national championship. 
"lt's really a great honor; just being here is a great honor," Johnson said. ''I'm just so happy to have been on the team I've been on for the last two years. 
"This might take the sting away for my family, but not for the university. Winning the na­tional championship was basi­cally what I set out to do, that was my goal. It's always going to hurt but life goes on, you have to get ove.! it. 
"I'd just like to congratulate Duke. I'm not too happy we lost, but I've got to give them the credit." 
The loss to Duke broke UNLV's 45-game winning streak, covering the last 11 games last season and the first 34 this year. The Rebels the beat Blue Devils 103-73 in the championship game last year. 
Johnson, a 6-foot-7, 250­pound senior forward, was the Wooden Award winner in vat­ing by 1,000 sports writers and broadcasters across the coun­try. He finished with 1,646 points to 1,389 for Louisiana State sophomore center Shaquille O'Neal. 
Johnson's teammate, senior forward Stacey Augmon, fin­ished third with 1,156 points, followed by sophomore guard Kenny Anderson of Georgia Tech with 717 and junior for­ward Billy Owens of Syracuse with 621. 
Wooden, the 80-year-old former coach who led UCLA to 10 NCAA championships in a 12-year span ending in 1975, presented the award to Johnson. 
O'Neal, Augmon and Owens also attended Wednesday's award ceremony along with UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian, LSU coach Dale Brown and Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim. 
"He makes everybody play better," Tarkanian said of Johnson. "He brings everyone around him to a higher level. He'll he a great pro. Whatever team he's on is going to win. He'll make everybody happy, he'll make everybody play bet­ter. 
"He's a great player, but he's even a better person." 
Johnson, who figures to be one of the top selections, if not the No. 1 pick, in this summer's NBA draft, said if he had his choice, he'd probably play with the Dallas Mavericks. 
"That's because it's home," he said. "If someone asked me who's my favorite team, it's probably the Lakers or the Bulls. You have to take every­thing in perspective; just to play in the NBA is a great thing. 
"Playing in the NBA should be fun. I've talked to several peo­ple in the NBA. It should be hard. I'm not about anything but to do what's best for the team." 
Johnson, who played two years at Odessa Junior College before transferring to UNLV last year, said he had no re­grets about passing up a rich contract to stay in school and play his senior year. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
THE 1\JOTRE DAiviE COUNCIL ~ ON ~ INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT ~ 
~ ~ ~

in'V'ites ynu to attend a special one hour ~ ~ 
~ 

~ SPRII~G FORUivl 
~ 
on EASTERN EUROPE: THE TRANSITION TO A MARKET ECONOMY 
featuring PROFESSOR WOLDZIMIERZ SIWIKrSRI VICE PRINCIPAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WARSAW 
THURSDAY) APRIL 4th 7:00p.m. 124 HAYES-HEALY. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w 
• • •.,--"' • ... -• • .. --'"'--.. • • .. • ~ T 'I' • ·-• '* •"-­
Thursday, April4, 1991 The Observer 
page 23 

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
11 :30 a.m. Hospitality Lunch to benefit Catholic 
ACROSS 29 Ko-Ko's eo Vivacity
Worker House of South Bend. CSC. 
notations 
12:15 p.m. Talk-diseussion with Theresa Ghilarducci. 1 Baritone Gorin &1 Dairy sounds 
33 Wait on 
"The Eeonomics of Sexism~ Friday Forum at the CSC. 5 A rival of ABC &2 Wide-awake 
35 Strength: Lat. 
2:45p.m. "My Life in Opera" Martina Arroyo, African­8 Vesicle; sac &3 "-,Brute!"
36 Mil. detector 
Ameriean opnra singer, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Mu­13 Shade of green &4 Man, for one 
37 Hedonist?
seum. 14Assay 65 Sanctify
41 House wing 
3:30 p.m. "Introduction to Resume Expert" Workshop, 
1& Tatum or Ryan 66 "... and bells on
Caroer and Placement Conference Room. 42Chief, in 
--toes"
17 Chew on wood, Calcutta
4 p.m. AnTostal Mud Volleyball Tournament Sign-ups. 
as some horses 67 Blacken on the
43 Yokels
SUB Office. ' outside
18 Jacob's twin 
6: 30 p.m. Prosentation: "Sales Opportunities With 44 Ruck 
19Vocation
Hevlon, Ine." Mr. Sam DeMaio, District Manager, will talk 46 Hosts on TV about sale representative jobs within Northern Indiana 20Whata shows DOWN 
Missourian
and Chicago territories. 47 Birthplace of 1 Peruvian of yore 
might be 
Ampere 23 Shoe saver 
8 and 10:30 p.m. "The Prineess Bride" Cushing Audi­2 Hem in 
48Mimic
torium. 
3 Mishmash 24 Of an important 50 Steam-engine 4Answered aperiod pioneer
LECTURES debater 
25 Salsa's bed 52 Stargazer? 
5 Greek isle 
28 Anecdotal 59 Charles is its 
. ~ p.m...Colloq_uium in the !"fistory and Philosophy of 6Countwho
collection prince played winning 
Sctcnee, The History and Philosophy of Science in Con­
numbers
temporary Sc!ence Education Reforms," Michael R. 
Matthews. Umversity of New South Wales Australia ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Musial or Getz 
llosburgh Library Lounge. ' • · 8 Former South 
African 
.7:30p.m. -Roland Reiss, sculptor, Annenberg Audito­

president
rium, Snite Museum. 
27 Shoulder piece 9 Ready the red 
7:30p.m. -"The Middle East Crises and a New World 
carpet 28 Maintains
Or?er, Mohamed Sid-Ahmed, foreign affairs editorial 
30 Dome-shaped
wnter for AJ Ahram Cairo, Egypt. Auditorium, New lies­
hut
burgh Center. 8 p.m. "The Pittston Strike" Gene Carroll, United Mine 
31 Descendant Workers. CSC. I 32 Lock 
34 Lowered the lights 
38 Pathogenic bacterium
CALVIII AID -BES 
39 Finnish 
25 Senate boys 
architect: 2& Lagoon holder 1898-1976 

MENU 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
40 Cadenced 45 Actions at 
Belmont 49 Nuisances 50 Compose prose 51 Of a certain 
openwork pattern 
52 Clean the deck 53 Lofty 54 Helm position 55 Straight: Comb. 
form 5& Raid the 
refrigerator 57 Lopez theme 58 Flanders river 

Notre Dame 
Stir Fry Beef/Veg. Rotellini w/Spring Vegetables Cajun Chicken Breast 
THE FAR SIDE 
SPELUNKER 
Saint Mary's 
Country Fair Night Fried Chicken Hamburgers Hot Dogs 
JAY HOSLER


.. 
"There he is, Stan! ... On that birch tree, second branch from the top, and chanering away like crazy! ... I tell you -first come the squirrels and then come the squirrel guns." 
The 1991 Collegiate Jazz Festiual 
Come be a part of the oldest and finest 
tradition in collegiate jazzl 
Thursday 
April 5th and 6th Stepan Center 
Cushing Auditorium
University of Notre Dame 
8:00p.m. and 10:30p.m. 
Tldets may be purctwed atlhe door or tn advance at 
$2
LaFortune Student Center. 
• ANTOSTAL MUD VOLLEYBALL TOURNEY! 
i 

Commissioner Applications I 
SIGN-UPS: I Thursday and Friday, April 4th and 5th be picked up at 2nd Floor 
S.U.B. Office 4-6 P.M. Secretary's desk in Lafortune. 
1

5 dollars per team I Deadline is Friday, April 5· STUDENT UNION BOARD
Hurry!!! There•s a 64 team maH. 

-.::S-
Sports
page 24 Thursday, April 4, 1991 
• 
Salary cap necessary to keep egos to a minimum 
Recently, 1990 National League MVP Barry Bonds of the Pittsburgh 
Pirates and his manager, Jim Leyland, got into a heated argument which made the nightly news circuit for about a week. 
At the same time, American League MVp Rickey Henderson walked out of the Oakland Athletics' camp, protesting that .t\s management didn't appreciate his 

talents. After a few days, possibly RENE FERRAN touched by the "Rickey Henderson Appreciation Fund" his teammates Associate Sports Ed1tor started. he returned to camp and 
resumed preparations for the 1991 season. What sparked all the fuss, you might ask? Well, in one word, money. Or better yet, a different word: pride. 
Bonds is upset because for the second straight year, he lost to the Pirates in an arbitration hearing to determine his 1991 salary. The poor fellow will earn only $2.3 million this season. 
Henderson, meanwhile, is angry because he wants to rene­gotiate his four-year, $12-million contract with the .t\s. At the time he signed it, Henderson was atop the salary ladder in major league baseball. Now, however, he's only 40th, and he is embarrassed. 
So, off-hand, it's easy to see why everyone thinks the problem is about money. It is the root of all evil, isn't it? 
And yet, both these men are going to make more than any­one here at Notre Dame-with a few exceptions-ever will hope to make. They're set for life financially, so why would they complain? 
Simple. Both Bonds and Henderson feel slighted. Each be­lieves he is the best palyer in the respective leagues and should be paid accordingly. And when their teams refuse to give them salaries which they feel reflect their worth, they pout, mouth off to their manager, or walk out of camp. 
It's not about increasing their purchasing power, but about increasing their own perceived power. These superstars simply want their egos massaged, that's all. 
But neither of them deserve it. 
Bonds, under the rules of baseball, is not eligible for free agency. His only recourse, if he and the Pirates cannot agree on a salary figure, is to go to arbitration, where an impartial observer takes the player's and the team's offers and decides ­between the two based on evidence presented. 
So, when Bonds lost again this season, this means either he could not argue his case very well or an independent arbitrator judged his worth, compared to similar players in similar situations, to be $2.3 million. If it's the former, then he better Jearn to present himself better. And if it's the latter, ... 
Well, if it's the latter, just like an umpire's decision, it's final. 
see SALARY I page 20 
Irish men's golf finishes 24th in shortened tourney 
By JENNIFER MARTEN first quarter of a basketball 
Sports Writer game. So as a result, we had a bad first quarter and never had a chance to recover," said. 
Old man winter dealt a Thomas. cruel, cold blow to the Notre Dame men's golf team over Individually, the scores were Easter Break. The team was very high because the weather devastated by the snow, wind, was so difficult on the golfers. rain, and sleet it encountered Junior Mike O'Connell posted at the University of Kentucky­the lowest Irish score with an Johnny Owens Invitational in 80. Lexington, Kentucky. "Mike had an admirable 
"The Johnny Owens tourna­round under the conditions," ment was a fiasco weather­said Thomas. wise," said Notre Dame coach 
George Thomas. Other Irish scores include ju­
The weather was so bad that nior Mike Crisanti's 82 and se­the final rounds of the tourna­nior Paul Nolta's 83. ment were cancelled due to the Sophomore Chris Dayton and inclement weather. The stand­sophomore Joe Dennen both ings and scores were only -finished with an 18 hole total of based on 18 holes of golf. 88. 
The Notre Dame squad fin­"Individually, it was the ished a disappointing 24th out worst performance we have of 25 teams in a very competi­ever had at any tournament tive field that included teams we've played at. This from Ohio University, Michigan tournament was very difficult State, Illinois State, and others. on the guys because they had Kent State won the team not played that much in the bad competition with a team total of weather. They played very, 
302. Ron Wuensche of very average. I think the Wisconsin claimed the individ­course and the weather ual title with a low round of 73. intimidated them a little bit," 
Coach Thomas compared the said Thomas. 18 hole tournament to a bas­The team hopes to put this ketball game. tournament in the back of their 
minds and continue playing"It would be like playing the solid golf. 
Danapilis leads team by example 
Irish slugger using positive outlook to continue progress 
By RICHARD MATHURIN I going to do?" Luckily, I had Sports Writer 
baseball, also. That was a big reason for my attitude. I just 
When a player bats .429 in kept at it and worked hard to his freshman year, people con­get back playing. They said it clude that his biggest asset is would take me at least a year his great physical skills, but ac­to get back after I blew out my cording to Irish rightfielder Eric knee, but I was back in five Danapilis, he thrives on a months," he says proudly. different aspect of the game. Danapilis came to Notre 
"Coach Murphy labeled me a Dame on a recommendation of Kirk Gibson type," said his high school coach, Jeff Danapilis. "I think the big part Nate, who came to Notre Dame of my game is the competitive­as an assistant for one year. ness of a Gibson type." Many schools shied away from 
While Danapilis has not re­ERIC DANAPILIS Danapilis after his knee prob­ceived the media attention of lems, but Murphy continued to other team members, it has be­Things have not always been show faith in him. come apparent through his first this easy for Danapilis. He was "He told me straight up that two years that he has become a three sport star at nearby St. I had a great chance to play if I the heart and soul of the team. Joseph High School in played like I could. I found out 
Besides batting .429 last Michigan, also lettering in when I came here that I really year, he also led the team in football and basketball. While believed in what Coach Murphy hits (60), slugging percentage playing football during his ju­said," Danapilis said. (.671), and on-base average nior year, though, his dreams of Danapilis found that the (.509). On the defensive side of a future in athletics almost biggest transition to college the game, Danapilis is the clos­came to a screeching halt. He was not baseball itself, but life est thing to sure-handed, blew out his knee, forcing him in general. committing only one error for a to undergo reconstructive "I think it's a transition men­.983 fielding percentage. surgery. Through hard work tally. There are a lot of things 
"People say, 'He's big, how and determination, Danapilis going on in your first semester. can he be a lead-off hitter? His was back in time for the base­If you can handle it mentally, swing is not the prettiest. It ball season. that's a big part. Nobody be­isn't Will Clark's swing'. I feel "When I got hurt, I was lieves in themselves that they you have to believe you can do really upset," said the can compete on this level. It it," said Danapilis. "And then sophomore. "There were many go out a~d prove it." days when I thought, "What am see IRISH/ page 18 
Cummins diving toward perfection 
By KEN TYSIAC competitively until I got to performance. She needed to Sports Writer college, so competition isn't finish in the top 24 to qualify incredibly important to me." for the finals in the meet, so 
Saint Mary's diver Carrie "She is a diver who loves to her 35th-and 37th-place fin­Cummins is very proficient in dive," says Belles diving coach ishes didn't quite do it for her. her hobby. Dan Slattery. "She does it for "I didn't dive my best," 
Cummins is the Saint Mary's the enjoyment of it. She wants Cummins admits. "It was really record holder in both the one­to do well because it is satisfy­hard, because there were so meter and three-meter diving ing." many divers at the competition events. This season she quali­Slattery says that Cummins's that I had to wait 40 minutes fied for the NCAA Division III laid-back attitude helps her re­between dives. That really took diving championships, placing lax in competition. the edge off my diving, and that 35th in the one-meter competi­"She hasn't had a problem is why my performance was tion and 37th on the three-me­with overdoing dives in meets down." ter board in the championship because she usually takes "She started early in the meet which was held at Emory things in stride," he says. "She morning with the one-meter University in Atlanta on March generally doesn't feel very competition," Slattery adds, 
13. pressured when she is "and by the time she got to the 
Still, the Belles' top diver competing." three-meter competition, which doesn't consider herself to be Although the pressure didn't is her strong point, she had hell bent on competition. get to Cummins at the NCAA gone through quite a few dives 
"To me, diving has always Championships, the length of during the day. It kind of been a hobby," Cummins says. the competition did, and she "I didn't even dive was a bit disappointed with her see HOBBY/ page 21 
Robinson named District IV All-American 
Special to the Observer 
Senior Karen Robinson has been named to the 1991 USBWA District IV All-America team. This is the second straight season she has re­ceived this honor. The 5-6 guard from Turnersville, N.J., averaged 16.8 points and 5.0 assists per game for the 23-9 Irish this season. She also be­came Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer with 1,590 points. The two-time Midwestern Collegiate Conference Player of the Year finished atop five career lists and second in two others dur­ing her stellar career. 
Also, "At the Rim," a photo­graphic "celebration of women's collegiate basketball" scheduled for publication in August, features the Irish women's basketball team in action from the Texaco-Hawk Classic in December. It is spon­sored by Eastman Kodak and 
The Observer/David Lee

Thomasson-Grant, Inc., and 
Senior Karen Robinson was named to the Region IV All-American 
produced in cooperation with 
team for the second consecutive year. 
the Women's Basketball Coaches Association. 








