
~'~~~t
-Qe.. 
IIA2·1992 
SaintMa~'s Colleg~
SUQUICINHNNI"I 
NOTRE DAME •I NOlANA 



MONDAY , DECEMBER 9, 1991

VOL. XXIV NO. 68 
TH~ INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ~ 
1992 Rhodes Scholars named 
CLAHEMONT. Calif. lAP) -A protest against drift nets by water polo team, he plans to woman who rownd a boat to rowing a boat in the Caribbean. study law at Oxford. sna to protest the use of drift She plans to continue her grad­Scholars were selected from nnts and another who ran an uate work in history at Oxford. 1,059 applicants at 333 colleges imwr-eity literacy program for Derek Kunimoto of Hawaii, a and universities. The winning llispanies were among 32 black belt in karate who has students come from 25 states. Anwrieans named Hhodes taught the art of self-defense Harvard University had seven Scholars on Sunday. and founded karate clubs at scholars, Yale had four and 
The winnnrs of the prestigious Wesleyan University and Princeton and Georgetown had scholarship receive two years of Harvard University, where he is three each. study at Oxford University in a biology major. Kunimoto plays The list includes nine women. England. jazz saxophone and plans to Women have been eligible for 
"Th1~re was an overwhelming study biochemistry at Oxford. the scholarship since 1976. So interest in the environment Another winner, Lisette far, 166 have won it. among this year's candidates," Nieves, is a philosophy and said David Alexander, American political science major at Three blacks, two Russian­secretary of tho Hhodes Brooklyn College who has led Americans and one Hispanic Scholarship Trust based at adult literacy programs for received scholarships this year. Pomona College in Claremont. Hispanic adults in the New York Former Rhodes scholars in­
"A close second would be borough. clude Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J., concern with the state of She is one of three 1992 entertainer Kris Kristofferson American society, including the Rhodes scholars who also have and former Los Angeles Rams problems of homelessness and received the competitive quarterback Pat Haden. hunger." Truman Scholarship awarded 
Among the qualities sought by annually by the U.S. govern­The estate of Cecil Rhodes, a 50 stato selection committees ment. British philanthropist, estab­and eight district committees Rhodes scholar Rebecca lished the scholarships after his are proven academic excel­Thomas is a graduate of the death in 1902. Rhodes had lence, integrity. respect for University of Utah aQd a ballet hoped the scholarships would others. leadership ability and dancer studying for a dance contribute to world under­sports prowess. The committees degree at Brigham Young standing and peace. pickt~d winnnrs Wednesday and University. She has danced with Scholarship winners have Saturday. the ballet companies of both college fees paid and receive a 
This year's winners include schools and plans a career stipend to cover living Molly Ann Kramer, a Southern teaching English. expenses. Illinois University graduate en­Hobert Sternfels, a history This year's recipients bring gaged in environmental studies and economics major at the total of Rhodes scholars in at tlw University of Montana. In Stanford University, founded a the United States to 2,628 since addition to working with company that developed a com­the program began in 1904. sexually abusPd children, sho puterized data base for attor­Scholars also are chosen from participated in an international neys. A member of Stanford's 17 other countries. 

Stretching It 

A dancer at Saint Mary's stretches her arms in an impersonation of a Japanese plane on Pearl Harbor Day. 
GLND/SMC discuss mixed feelings on Burtchaell case 
By SANDY WIEGAND Another commented that process intended to change added, and called the Associate News Editor Burtchaell has been "the victim sexual orientation, a professor A student who recently told University's slow response of a larger system" which led commented. The Observer he was abused by "beyond (his) ability to com­
Gay and lesbian students and him to qeny his sexuality. Here at Notre Dame, he Father Burtchaell during coun­prehend." faeulty who gathered Sunday to Yet connections should not be added, the University may "try seling sessions in the 1980s said discuss sexual harassment made between "gay and abuse," to help people come to terms" his full story will soon appear in The University, a professor allegations against Father but between "Burtchaell and with their sexuality, or the National Catholic Reporter commented, seems "more con­Jamns Burtchaell seemed torn abuse, the University and conversely "try to engineer (NCR). the newspaper that cerned with preserving its im­between sympathy for the priest abuse, and censorship and some kind of a purge" of gays divulged the allegations against age" than with protecting stu­and resentment toward him and abuse," one student said. A and lesbians. Burtchaell. dents from abuse. the environment they say distinction should be made. he Those present also expressed promotes denial of homosexual said, between "Burtchaell as an The Notre Dame Other allegations, said to date dismay at a "lack of due pro­orientation. and ultimately abuser and Burtchaell as a administration will probably back to 1976, will also appear cess" in determining lnads to abuse. homosexual." "retrench its resistance" to in the next NCR issue, the Burtchaell's guilt before dis­
Gays and Lesbians at Notre student said. missing him from the 
"I feel very sympathetic, and The "counseling" the Holy Dame/Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC), University. But Burtchaell's ap­yet...maybn he's getting his just Cross Congregation said an organization the University "I know for a fact that the parent lack of resistance desserts," said a student, one of Burtchaell is undergoing may has refused to officially University has known about "seems like a defacto admission about 20 people to attend. actually be "reorientation," a recognize, a student said. (the abuse) for 15 years," he of guilt," one said. 


NO students fight at local parties 
By MICHAELSCHOLL The Fisher resident and a party being thrown in their News Writer group of his friends met up off-campus home. with the Pangborn students Six black males entered 
Three Notre Dame stu­in front of Pangborn Hall at the home located at 919 dents were injured over the about 12:30 a.m .. After South Bend Avenue at weekend in two separate al­more hostile words ex­around 9:15 pm, accordingtercations involving party changed, a fight broke out to Jeff Jotz, a Notre Dame crashers. between the Fisher resident senior and housemate of the 
and a mem~er of the Pang­injured students. 
In one incident, a Fisher born group. Hall resident suffered lacer­Jotz said the youths be­ations above his right eye The injured Flanner stu­came angry after being told and between his eyebrows dent was taken to St. to leave the premises. While while fighting with a Pang­Joseph's Medical Center, Jotz went to call the police, born Hall resident, accord­where he was treated and one of his housemates was ing to ND Security assistant released. The Pangborn punched in the eye by one of director Chuck Hurley. student was not hospital­the intruders. Another 
ized. housemate was hit in the 
Hurley said the incident side of the head as the was precipitated late Satur­The case will be reviewed youths were leaving the day evening when a group of br, Student Affairs for pos­house. Pangborn residents walked sible disciplinary actiOn, in uninvited on a party being Hurley said. South Bend police arrived held in the room of the at the scene minutes later,
The Observer/Joe Fabbre 
Fisher resident. The Pang­Earlier Saturday evening, but by then the youths had born students complied with two Notre Dame students already fled. 
In the spirit 
a request to leave the room, received minor injuries after Both of the injured 
but only after several hostile being attacked by a group of housemates were treated at
Succumbing to the irrepressible spirt of the season, sophomore 
words were exchanged. blacK youths who crashed a the scene.
Chris Kersting shops for Christmas decorations at the mall. 
'' 
I, 

Monday, December 9, 1991
page 2 The Observer 
Textbook education is not enough What is the purpose of a university?· Almost everyone would say "to educate" or "to prepare you for the real world." Nice answers, nice try. I'm not sure that college ~life prepares the masses John Rock well for the "real world". When I take a look at Asst. Photo my parents, I see them __....;E;;;.d;;;;i.;.;to;.;.r__ going to bed before 3:00 a.m.. eating respectable meals, working some job with somewhat consistent hours. When I look at ND students, especially myself, I see late nights, little sleep, far from the best food, and mega-screwed up working hours. When I think of the education I am receiv­ing, I am disappointed. As a biology major (probably) I am treated to classes of three hundred (billion) people. The competition is so fierce for good grades that learning can be stifled. Too often, it is a race to study the "right" things and memorize the "right" de­tails. In a recent conversation with a guy from my dorm, it was suggested to me that there are two types of universities. The first type would be a university that challenges the whole person. Its faculty make the students think, not only about their courses but the ramifications their education can have on the world. The other type of university is com­placent. It is rich in tradition and has a good name. The prevailing attitude is that a de­gree from these universities is the ticket to success, guaranteed prosperity. Where would Notre Dame fit in? Our uni­versity is a conservative haven. Those people that choose to speak against the norm are considered "radicals:" It often seems that our professors are more liberal than the students. Of course Notre Dame has the Center for Social Concerns, which provides many great opportunities to serve. It's great that pro­grams like Christmas in April receive a lot of support from our Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. There is no lack of con­cern, but lots of ignorance. We need to work to fix the problem, as well as apply the ban­dages. We need to work on some things-the things some of our professors try to teach us, the stuff that's not in the book. There is subtle racism, great homophobia, and a gen­eral intolerance toward the anyone that doesn't conform to the typical Domer stereo­type. There is lots of "university" around here but not enough acceptance of that every popular word, diversity. I love this university. I have the utmost re­spect for it, the faculty and staff, and most of all the students. We are extremely fortunate to be here; this is a truly great place, but that doesn't mean that it can't be better. I once heard that "to love" meant "to wish well for." If we love this place, as many of us do, we must wish well for it, care what it is, what it stands for, and where it is going. We are here for an education, but it has to go beyond the classroom. Of all the things we learn here, the most important ones aren't going to be found in a textbook. The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.  
Today's Staff Production News Lisa Bourdon Kelly Lynch Lauren Aquino Graphics Sports Brendan Regan Rich Kurz Lab Tech. Accent R. Garr Schwartz John O'Brien Meredith McCullough Business Viewpoint Colleen Gannon Rich Riley The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published M9nday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  



:::;{..
INSIDE COLUMN 

FORI!CAIT: } 

Mostly cloudy today and colder. High in the 40s with 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
:l:ii 

~:~:~~t~~:~noon. 
::::: ~0~~~~ ~~~;. 20s 
TEMPERATURES:
} 
~r 
City H L Athens 29 32 Atlanta 65 41 · Berlin 37 32 

PI'8SSUf8 

-E)
X

H L (~~ ~ m ~ m ~ ~ ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
:·.· .·:· 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
Boston 50 41 Calgary 40 26 Chicago 60 48 Dallas-Ft. Worth 78 66 Denver 42 27 Honolulu 84 72 Houston 77 68 ndianapolia 63 56 London 43 34 Los Angeles 60 51 Miami Beach 76 71 N-Orleans 73 46 N-Vork 59 45 Paris 41 32 Phllade.,hla 56 36 Rome 48 36 San Diego 60 55 San F ranclsco 66 51 Seattle 51 46 South Bend 61 50 Tokyo 54 50 Washington, D.C. 65 38 

::)::::::;· .. {:: 


$1.27 for premium unleaded, and $1.05 for regular

WORLD 
leaded. At full-service stations, per-gallon prices were $1.38 for regular unleaded, $1.53 for premium unleaded
Arabs to be barred from Jerusalem 
and $1.38 for regular leaded.
•JERUSALEM -Jerusalem police said Sunday that Arabs from the occupied territories will be banned from entering the city on Monday, the fourth anniversary of 
Pan Am and creditors sue Delta billions 
the start of the Palestinian uprising against Israeli rule. 
•NEW YORK -Pan American World Airways and its Police and border patrol units will set up roadblocks creditors filed a lawsuit seeking more than $2.5 billion 
before dawn Monday to shut off all roads leading to 
from Delta Air Lines, two days after Delta backed out of a Jerusalem from the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
deal to rescue Pan Am.The lawsuit Friday charges Delta All Palestinians from the occupied territory. Police have 
with failing to deal in good faith and breaching
also canceled all leaves and brought in reinforcements to obligations made to Pan Am and its creditors' committee deal with any protests that may develop. Underground during negotiations this fall. The 22-page complaint was leaders of the uprising have called a general strike for filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York, where the 
Monday to mark the anniversary of the start of their 
new, smaller Pan Am based in Miami was to have been 
revolt against Israeli occupation of the territories 
born Wednesday. Delta bought Pan Am's Europeancaptured from Egypt and Jordan in the 1967 Middle East routes and Northeast Shuttle this summer. Delta on 
War. At least 872 Arabs have been killed by Israeli Wednesday announced in court that Pan Am's losses had soldiers or civilians since the start of the uprising. 
changed Delta's mind about the rest of the deal. Pan Am Another 475 Palestinians have been killed by their fellow shut down Thursday. Delta lawyer Larry Handelsman Arabs on suspicion of collaborating with Israel. 
last Wednesday said Delta had tried hard to make the deal succeed. A hearing has been set for Jan. 30. 

NATIONAL CAMPUS
Slight decrease in gas prices shown 
•LOS ANGELES -The national average price of gasoline 
Flasher reported between campuses 
fell by nearly a penny over the past two weeks, the first 
•NOTRE DAME, Ind-An unidentified white male


retail price drop since October, the Lundberg Survey exposed himself to two female Notre Dame students latereported Sunday. The average pump price of all grades Saturday afternoon, according to ND Security assistant at full-and self-service stations was $1.23 a gallon as of director Chuck Hurley. The students told police that theDec. 6, oil analyst Trilby Lundberg said. That was a drop incident took place along Saint Mary's Road near theof more than 1/2 cent over the Nov. 22 survey. The 
entrance to the cemetery at approximately 5:13 p.m.
Lundberg Survey polls 13,000 gas stations nationwide. 
They said the attacker was approximately 5'9" tall andPrices have risen since mid-October as refmers boosted 
weighed around 170 lbs. A search of the area
production of home heating oil for the winter season and immediately following the incident failed to produce anyproduced comparatively less gasoline, Lundberg said. 
suspects. Hurley asks anyone with information
According to the latest survey, pump prices per gallon at regarding this case to contact Security at 239-5555.
self-service stations were $1.10 for regular unleaded; 

OF INTEREST 
•Notre Dame Student Players will hold auditions for •Freshmen! Try out for the "Freshmen Four" one-act Henry V tonight. Auditions begin at 7:30p.m. in room 204 plays. These plays are performed and directed solely by O'Shag. If you have any questions call Tim Deenihan at freshmen. Auditions are tonight at 7:30 in room 118 283-2259. Nieuwland Science Hall. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/December 7 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 239,109,100 209.74 • 0.78 S&P COMPOSITE 379.10 i-1.71 OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,886.40 ~ 2.69 

PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLDi-$ 2.00 to $369.40/oz. 
SILVER-0-0.5¢ to $4.021/oz. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1907: Christmas seals went on sale for the first time, in the Wilmington, Del., post office. The proceeds went to fight tuberculosis. 

•ln1854: 
Alfred Lord Tennyson's famous poem, "The Charge of the Light Brigade," was published in England. 

•In 
1940: British troops opened their first major offensive in North Africa during World War II. 

•In 
1941: China declared war on Japan, Germany and Italy. 

•In 
1981: The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that a law giving the federal government the authority to appeal a criminal sentence it felt was too lenient did not constitute "double jeopardy" under the Bill of Rights. 

•In 
1984: The five-day-old hijacking of a Kuwaiti jetliner that claimed the lives of two Americans ended as Iranian security men seized control of thil plane, which was parked at Tehran airport. 


_, 
. ­

Monday, December 9, 1991 The Observer page 3 


ND alums reflect on Pearl Harbor's 50th aniversary 
By MEREDITH keeping with a traditional McCULLOUGH football cheer, "everybody Assistant News Editor yelled 'One. 1\vo. Three. Four. 
Five. Beat Japan!'" he said. While the 50th anniversary of Soon afterwards, however, Pearl llarbor last Saturday students left the campus for prompted many Americans to Christmas break. When they re­reflect on the infamous surprize turned, Dillon explained, the bombing that played an Navy had already mobilized at important role in shaping the the University and had moved nation, the day had special into the dorms. Many students meaning for Notre Dame alums found themselves relocated who attended the University when this occurred. during World War II. By 1943, members of the newly 
As an historical event that established naval V-7 Program, forced the United States to en­or Midshipmen's School, ter the war, the bombing of occupied Lyons, Morrisey, Pearl llarbor left a distinct Howard, and Badin Halls. A mark upon the face of the similar naval program (V-12) University. From the occupancy which included Marines of the Navy in residence halls to resideded in Dillon, Alumni, a revamping of food services, Zahm, Cavanaugh, and Breen the war's presence was felt by Phillips Halls. The Navy ROTC the entire Notre Dame com­lived in Walsh Hall, according to munity. Thomas Schlereth's book, "The "It changed everything," ac­University of Notre Dame, a cording to Joseph Dillon of the Portrait of Its History and dass of '44. Campus." Heealling the day of the attack This demand for living quarters Dillon said, "We were left the nearly 250 men who sophomores when this hit. We were still unrolled at the were sitting in Lyons (his resi­University housing in Sorin and denee hall at the time) listening St. Edward's Halls, wrote to the Chicago Bears game on Schlereth. the radio." The military presence on the "Some of us didn't even know campus could not be ignored. where Pearl llarbor was," he "Everyday at six in the morning continued, "but there was a the Navy was up doing their fantastic reaction." drills as we went to Mass," said At the dining hall on the night Dillon. that the news broke out, the With the arrival of the military, student body was alive with ex­the style with which the dtmnent. according to Dillon. In University served food was also 

n y you can preven1 orest fires. 

Club Column 
DECEI\IIBI 8, 1881 

l)The Club Coordinolion Council would like to remind all presidents of graduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second Aoor of LaFortune. 
2) World Peace Action Group will meet Wednesdays at 7 pm in the CSC Coffeehouse. Everyone is welcome! 
3) Right to life will be having a meeting Thursday. Dec. 12 at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater. We will be discussing the D.C. trip in January. Those interested in this trip please bring rull payment of $45. 
4) N.D. African Students Associalion is sponsoring the International Gala of African and Afro-Caribbean Music and Dance. It is scheduled For Saturday, Dec. I4 from 8 p.m. 'until I a.m. in the Wilson Commons. 
5) DOS User's Group will have a meeting on Thursday evening at 7 p.m. in room GOI 5 of the Computer-Moth Building. Any Guestions-call Molt at 283-1778 or Chris at 283-1998. 
6) Interested in tutoring adults preparing for their GED through the Center for Basic Learning Skills? Dedicated volunteers are needed once a week from 9:30-I 1:30. Please contact Katie at 283-3706. Transportation is provided. 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 pm Thursday each week. All entries appear in the Following Monday's edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in 206 LaFortune. 
LAST CHANCE to get 


Sesquicentennial Posters 
before Christmas 

Only$5 
At: La Fortune Info Desk Country Harvester 
To Benefit: Senior Formal 
radically altered. In January of 1942, South Dining Hall traded in family-style dining for cafe­teria lines to accomodate the increased numbers. Before this change, "We had great food service," said Dillon. Using lunch as an expample he said, "at 12 p.m. students came in. The bell rang for grace. Food was served by fellow stu­dents paying for their educa­tion. Then it was 12:30 and up and out you went." "It was a different way of life," he said. 
Changes occured in other areas as well: classes were more intense, semesters were short" ened, and vacation ,time de­creased. In addition, women were much more visible on campus as they took the part­time jobs left by undergradu­ates in offices, dining halls and the library, according to Schlereth. 

But Dillon, like many other members of his class, did not feel the effects of these changes for too long. In August of 1942 he left to join the services and did not return until 1946 to complete his undergraduate studies and obtain a degree in business. "So many of us were gone. About 95 to 98 percent," he said. "When we came back the student body was a lot larger. There were 3,300 of us when we left and 4,800 to 5,000 when 
we returned. That's a big jump." "When we .returned we really appreciated the place a little more," he added. Dillon commented that the Notre Dame community at the time gave an outpouring of support to its students who fought in the war. "We had rallies," he said. "Bob Hope came to one in the stadium that raised thousands of dollars. We practically filled the stadium." 
It is not surprising that there was such overwhelming sup­port, according to Vincent DeSantis, current professor emeritus of history at Notre Dame. "In the country at the time, when the attack occurred, the nation was aroused and rallied behind the President," he ex­plained. Up until the bombing the United States was debating whether or not they should maintain their isolationist policy. When such a sneak attack occured there was no longer any question. "The United States was at­tacked. When a nation is at­tacked the people rally together, even if there were doubts before," DeSantis said. This doesn't necessarily mean the support was strong throughout the entire war, he clarified, but initially the nation was unified. Dillon said he hoped to em­
phasis the effect that the war had on the nation on a whole­how the war shaped the fifty years that have followed. 
"We won the war. That's what we were suppose to do," he said. "The important thing is what this country has done since World War II." ' To illustrate his point, Dillon called attention to an article by Chicago Tribune columnist Joan Beck, which he said he thought adequately described his feelings. "The World War II generation­who grew up in the pervasive poverty of the Depression years-changed this country in fundamental ways," wrote Beck. "Veterans used their educations to build a United States strong enough and rich enough to many of its new global responsibilities." 
"They created stable marriages 
... and acheiv(ed) families ... their tax dollars picked up many of the bills for the efforts to relieve poverty, to enforce civil rights and for other good causes," she added. One cannot deny the reality of the lives lost and pain suffered during World War two, but the fifty years that followed tell a story of betterment, according to Dillon. "The younger people should hear this story," he said. "They are the beneficial recipients of this whole thing." 


ND professor receives position as director 
Special to The Observer 

Alexander J. Hahn, professor of mathematics at the University of Notre Dame, re­places Brian Pavlac, visiting professor of history, who has directed the international study program at Innsbruck, Austria for the past four years. 
Hahn will be director of the University's program for the 1992-93 academic year, accord­ing to Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of inter­national study programs. 
Hahn also will serve as a visiting professor of mathemat­ics at the University of Innsbruck. 
A 1970 graduate of Notre Dame's doctoral program, Hahn joined the University's faculty in 1972. lie is a specialist in group theory and quadratic forms, and in conjunction with Notre Dame provost Timothy O'Meara, wrote a book welcomed as a standard reference in these fields of study. 

Ifthe press didn't tell us,who would? 
To gel printed inli1rmation on the role ot a tree pre~~ ,lllJ ho11 it protects your rights. or to discuss any free rress ISsue. call the First Amendment Center at 1-800-542-1600. 
. I!WI 
' ~~' 
@
Need A Spring Break??f Treat Yourself To A Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break 





l ..• 
# : .. 1~dW.U 
The Ultimate Sailing Experience C 

!Itbri~~ut the best
ICall 1-800-359-9808 Today I "'--' 

! ·fna11 ot..uS: . 
'# C>1987UNITEDWAY ~ 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students 
Applications to Notre Dame International Study Programs in 

Angers, France Mexico City, Mexico 
Athens, Greece Nagoya, Japan Dublin, Ireland Perth, Australia Innsbruck, Austria Toledo, Spain 
ARENOWDUE! 

Make sure yours is complete before 
you leave for Christmas vacation! 
For additional information contact: International Study programs 420 Main Building 
239-5882 

page 4 The Observer 

You deserve a break 
Cavanaugh Hall sophomores Chris Kersting and Glenn Cassidy take a break from studying for finals, and from dining hall food, at a local restaurant. 

Fireside chat: Christmas diversity 
Monday, December 9, 1991 

Poet Perryman lectures on her new poetry book 
By HEATHER TREMBLAY News Writer 
Brenda Perryman, author of "Mood Swings and Magic Carpet Rides," a new poetry book, advised not to "put the responsibility for your happi­ness in anyone else's hands" 
Perryman described her book as the "following of a love re­lation from start to finish through poetry." 
She discussed the book during a presentation Friday, con­sisting of selected readings of her poems as well as her in­sights and explanations on how the poems pertained to herself and others. 
Perryman attempted to in­clude all aspects and situations that people face before, during and after a relationship. She tried to capture the questions and insecurities people face as well as the good things, she said. 
The book, however, is not only about romantic relation­ships. Perryman also wrote about her son and the Gulf War, to name a few more topics. The poem "Prime Time" is about how she has grown through her experiences. According to that poem, Perryman feels she has "gotten better with time." 
Perryman is also an actress and a director who has worked in the media of television, radio and theater. She has directed two Broadway plays and claims that directing is her first love. 
Claiming to have been a very shy child, Perryman said, "my mother says I didn't speak until I was about ten." She says her writing came out of "just talk­ing to myself and thinking about things." 
Perryman's new book has just gone on sale. She is presently working as a theater director at a Michigan high schooL 



By BECKY BARNES News Writer 
Several speakers highlighted the diverse Christmas celebra­tions in Mexican, Native American, Nigerian and Ugandan cultures during a fireside chat Friday. 
Maria Fuentes, assistant di­rector of Minority Student Affairs, discussed the Mexican celebration. According to Fuentes, the highlight of their celebration is the posada, or reenactment of Mary and Joseph's trip to Bethlehem. The posada may be celebrated in Spanish, English or bilingually and consists of prayers and songs. 
In the procession of the posada, two people play Mary and Joseph who stop at three houses asking for lodging. At the first two houses they are denied when the inhabitants verted you." 

According to Tsethlikai, the main celebration is the shalako, the coming of the gods to the village. Priests or sacred men dress in the costumes of the gods, and process into the vil­lage to the six houses which have been chosen to host the gods. 
The procession begins with the long-horn gods, who look mean in order to tell people to repent because the gods are coming. Next are the clowns or mudheads, who remind the people with antics and dancing that this is also a time of joy. Finally the shalako gods arrive, in costumes seven feet tall, to dance in each house. 
The inhabitants of the house must give gifts to the dancers and feed anyone who comes to see the gods, said Tsethlikai. "Actually, by the time Christmas comes no one has any money left," she added. 
Nigeria has as many different cultures as it does dialects and each culture celebrates differ­ently, said Lillian Nwokah. She described her own culture's cel­ebration as "a time of reunion, a time of initiation and a time of happiness." 
Sometime before Dec. 25 the initiation ceremonies celebrat­ing boys' and girls' passages into adulthood take place. Nwokah said she could not de­scribe the ceremony for the males because women are not permitted to watch, but in the female initiation, the mother 
Professor discusses religion and philosophy relationship 
By TRAVIS SMITH News Writer 

Philosophy Professor Alasdair Macintyre discussed the relationship between one's religion and the study of phi­losophy during a forum on Friday. 
"Theological commitments are inseparable from doing philosophy," he said in his lec­ture titled "Why Does the €atholic University Need Philosophy?" 
According to Macintyre, un­dergraduates are at the age when they begin to formulate unanswered questions about life. Philosophy class allows these questions to be talked about and answered ade­quately. It also causes students to find alternative questions to their original ones which is sometimes more important than answers, he said. 
"Philosophy helps argumen­tation for students and offers an ongoing discourse with a variety of different viewpoints," added Macintyre. 
He expressed that philosophy is not learning a set of rules, but reformulating questions as a rational person. It corrects students and their former "silly" beliefs. 
"Within philosophy, ideas dis­cussed are influenced by Catholic views as well as secu­lar views," Macintyre said. 
For Catholics to understand their faith, many of the ques­tions they ask are discussed in philosophy. According to Macintyre, philosophy provides Catholic students with an op­portunity to formulate personal beliefs which will affect the manner in which they respond. 
"We shouldn't base our reli­gious beliefs on the flip of a coin. We should ask questions and formulate our opinions," said Macintyre. Philosophy class is somewhere where this can be done. 

Monday, December 9, 1991 The Observer page 13 


Belles lose in championship round of their tourney ... 

Janet Libbing looks to make a pass in the Belles' close loss to Olivet. 
Philadelphia deals Von Hayes to Angels for two minor-leaguers 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. (AP)­The California Angels made the big noise at the winter meetings Sunday, getting Von Hayes in a trade from Philadelphia a few hours after general manager Whitny Herzog launched a face­
to-face  tirade  at  Danny  
Tartabull's agent.  
The  Angels,  who  traded  

Devon White to Toronto in the opening deal of last year's mnetings, again made the first move. They sent two top minor leaguers, pitcher Kyle Abbott and outfielder Ruben Amaro Jr., to Philadelphia for Hayes. 
Hayes, 34, has been on the trading block for several sea­sons. lie played only 77 games last year because of a broken right arm sustained when he was hit a pitch from Tom Browning, and batted just .225 with 21 RBis. 
Hayes has not hit a home run since September 1990. Despite that, the Angels hope he can fill some of the power void left by Dave Winfield, who was let go after hitting a team-leading 28 homers. 
"We were 13th in the league in runs scored and 13th in on­base percentage," Herzog said. "We know he's coming off a bad year. But he can help us in those areas." 
Herzog said Hayes will take Winfield's spot in right field, for now. The Angels are struggling to re-sign free agent first baseman Wally Joyner, and Herzog said Hayes could play there if necessary. 
"We're not finished. We ex­pect to do a lot of things this week," Herzog said. 
But signing Tartabull, the premier free agent remaining, may not be one of them. 
Herzog is still smarting over his dealings with Dennis Gilbert, the agent who repre­sents Bobby Bonilla and Tartabull. 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT~ 
10 STUDENTS PER CLASS 100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.S & M.D.s 

SOUTH BEND 273-1866 

By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team shattered the single game scoring record for the second time in two years Friday night, trouncing Indiana University-at South Bend 113-37 in the open­ing round of the Saint Mary's Roundball Classic tournament, but was narrowly defeated in the championship game against Olivet College, 84-81. 
The Belles jumped out ahead immediately against !USB, capitalizing on many errors. The Belles played their starters in the first half, but at the be­ginning of the second half, the team substituted its entire sec­ond team. 
"In the second half, we did everything right and they did everything wrong. So we put the rest of the girls in and they played tough.IUSB is starting a new program. The nice thing is everyone got to play," explained Belles head coach Don "Popcorn" Cromer. 
Despite the Belles easy suc­cess on Friday, the team could not contain the Lady Comets from Olivet. The Comets jumped to an early 10-point lead, leav­ing the Belles to trail through­out the game. 
"Our heads were not in it," explained senior captain Catherine Restovich, "Instead of playing as a team, we were forcing it." 
"The !USB game did effect us in the first half. (Friday) came so easy. When we started off the game, we couldn't hit anything," said Popcorn. 
The Belles struggled in the first half and cut the lead down to five. But they couldn't con­tain the Comets and the lead stretched to nine at the half, 44­35. 
In the second half, the Belles began to cut the lead when Olivet sunk three consecutive three-point field goals to stretch the lead to 16 points. 

But midway through the half, pressure from the Bdles' man­to-man defense slowed the Lady Comets and the Belles pulled within seven points. 
The team continued to battle Olivet down the stretch despite a controversial foul call against senior Janet Libbing, costing the Belles two points. 
The Belles pulled within two, 81-83, with 24 seconds remain­ing, but couldn't steal it away. Olivet sealed their victory with a free throw shot, making the final score 81-84. 
"When we play as a team, we're unstoppable. We got the steals, we passed to the right player," said Hestovich. " I guess it's reassuring that we came back after being down 16 to only three." 
"The girls never gave up. They really hustled and you can't be disappointed with that," said Popcorn. 
Duke reigns as #1 in NCSW hoop poll 



T · H · E 
OHIO 
SfAlE 
UNIVERSITY 


D.c. I llo¥.6 II» Votlle Aocord Polnto 
1. (1) 14 4·0 811 2. (9) 3·0 589 3. (4) Arizona 3·0 513 4. (6) Ohio State 4·0 499 5. (7) North Carolina 6·0 498 e. (13) Okl!lhoma State 1·0 455 7. (10) Seton Hall 3·1 439 8. (5) Kentucky 3·1 436 9. (11) St. John'• 3-1 431 
10. (14) Connediout 4..() 400 11. (12) KaMas 4·0 393 12. (15) Utah 6-0 338 13. (2) Indiana 2·2 330 14. (22) Georgia Tech 5-1 258 15. (18) Alabama 4·1 251 18. (24) Iowa 
5.() 218 17. (17) Oklahoma 4·0 171 18. (3) Arkanoas 4·2 184 
19. (21) Wake F018Sl •1-1 139 
20. (-) Michigan Stale 5.() 131 21. (8) Louioiana Stille 2·2 124 22. (16) Georgetown 2·1 104 23. (19) Michigan 2·0 77 24. (25) Misoouri 4..0 68 
25. (-) N.C. Stale 4·1 48 
01hera receiving voiH: DePaul 21, Arizona State 15, Tennessee 13, UNC·Charlolte 12, Maryland 1t. Telll>ie 10, UNLV 10, Virginia 10, Florida State 9, Syracuoe 7, Louisville 8, New Orlean& 6. Pittsburgh 6, Illinois 5, Muaachuaetts 5, Misaiosippi 5, Nebraska 4. Rutgers 2. Xavier 2, Ball State 1, Stanton! 1. 
Schoola pertlclpatlng In lhll waek'a poll: Alabama, Arizona, Arizona State. Ball State, Brigham Young, Colorado, Colurrbia, Duke, Florida State, Illinois, Kanaas. Kentucky. Michigan. Nebraska, Notre Dame. Oregon. Oregon State. Penn, Purdue. Syracuse, Te•as, Utah. Virginia, West Virginia, Wi$COOoin. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

~[p@@lltJ[! @Glfflll~IJ!lil!fJ~ 
@ll[}fm 

CHECK OUT THE ECK TENNIS PAVIUON FOR TENNIS WEAl\ AND omER SPORTS APPAREL FOR THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE. 
ALL IN STOCK MERCHANDISE 1Oo/o OFF NOW UNTIL CHRISTMAS. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL239·S929 

By RICH KURZ 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Duke Blue Devils retained their preseason number-one ranking in this week's National Collegiate Sportswriters Poll, garnering 14 of the 15 first­place votes. After pounding East Carolina and helpless Harvard, Duke flexed its mus­cle against a tougher opponent, knocking off number nine St. John's, 91-81. A win against Canisius this past Saturday raised the Blue Devil's record to 
4-0. Jumping all the way from ninth-place to the second spot are the UCLA Bruins, who started off their season a few weeks ago by upsetting previ­ous no. two Indiana, 87-72. The 
Bruins continued their winning ways against Long Beach State and Pepperdine, raising their record to 3-0. The final first-place vote was awarded to Arizona, winners over no. 21 Louisiana State on Saturday. Ohio State and North Carolina round out the top five spots. Oklahoma State, winners of seven straight, jumped to the sixth spot from no. 13. North Carolina State and Michigan State both entered the poll this week, at #25 and #20, respectively. Georgia Tech was another big jumper, moving up to thirteenth from twenty-second spot, while Iowa went from 24 to 16. Indiana dropped the furthest, going from the second spot to the thirteenth. Despite wins over Butler and Notre Dame, the Hoosiers' losses to the Bruins and the Kentucky Wildcats evened their record at 2-2 and knocked them out of the top 10. 




Please Recycle this Observer 

The Observer Monday, December 9, 1991
page 14 

Women's volleyball falls just short at NIVC's 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame volleyball team went to the well once too often at the National Invitational Volleyball Championships, losing in the title match to Kentucky 15-12, 15-17, 13-15, 15-7, 15-13, on Saturday. 
Notre Dame's performance this weekend capped a remark­able 17-game turnaround from last season's disastrous 9-27 record. However, ND couldn't put the final touch on its season by bringing home the championship trophy from the third-annual tournament held in Dayton, Ohio.lt was the fifth five-game match of the tournament for the Irish (26­10), and for a team that was short two players (Nicole Coates and Jen Slosar) already coming into the weekend, the long matches finally wore them down against the Wildcats. 

"It was amazing that we hung in there," said Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown. "I couldn't ask them to respond any better. We learned in this tournament that we can overcome any adversity." 
To reach the championship match, the Irish had to battle through Pool C of the tourna­ment. After splitting their opening matches Thursday, though, they swept by Drexel in three games and then came back from two games down in their final match to defeat California 10-15, 14-16, 15-13, · 15-13, 16-14. 
Notre Dame battled back from deficits in the final three games (11-3 in the third and 13:9 in both the fourth and fifth) to pull out the win that sent them into Saturday's semifinal matchup with Miami (Ohio). 
"We believed that we could win the match no matter how much we were down," said Brown. "We just dug in and started putting some pressure on Cal." 
In the semifinals, the Irish downed the Redskins in four games, setting up a rematch with the Wildcats. Kentucky had defeated Notre Dame ear­lier in the season in three games at the Big Four Classic in Louisville, Ky. 
The Irish raced out to an early 9-4 lead in the first game against the Wildcats (24-13), but could not hold on as Kentucky scored the final seven points of the game to grab a 1-0 advantage in the match. 

The Wildcats built on their momentum in game two, taking a 13-9 lead and appearing ready to close it out. However, Notre Dame roared back, scor­ing eight of the next ten points to tie the match. 
But as the match wore on, the flu-ravaged Irish began feeling the effects of playing for the sixth time in three days. Even with freshman Christy Peters back after sitting out the first two days of the NIVC's, they were unable to hold off Kentucky, dropping the final two games to the Wildcats. 
Junior middle blocker Jessica Fiebelkorn (86 kills, 101 digs, .371 hitting percentage) and sophomore setter Janelle Karlan both made the all-tour­nament team for Notre Dame. Another standout for the Irish was senior co-captain Chris Choquette, who finished with 69 kills, 69 dig!?, and 13 service aces. 
"We had a great team effort this weekend," said Brown. "We had to use everybody-with Janelle and Marilyn (Cragin) sick and Alicia (Thrner) still not 100 percent, both Jennie (Bruening) and Katie (Kavanaugh) stepped in and played well. 
''I'm proud of the whole team, how they responded to adver­sity. We showed a lot of en­durance and perseverence, and that explains why we did as well as we did." 

Russians close down national sports planning agency 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet Union's sports system was stunned Friday by the abolition of Gossport, the government agency that funded, controlled and pumped Communist ideol­ogy into generations of cham­pion athletes. 
The agency ceased operating by order of the State Council, the interim body that has been ruling the country since the failed August coup, as part of efforts to shrink the bloated Soviet bureaucracy. 
"Without Gossport, Soviet sports will simply disintegrate," said Leonid Drachevsky, the agency's first deputy chairman and the man ordered to supervise its liquidation. 
The demise of Gossport, which funded and coordinated 

at 
happened 
on your 
inside 
happened 
on your 
outside, 
would you 
still 



smoke? 

the training of national teams, cast doubt on the Soviet Union's chances at next year's Olympics. The order cut off funding to Olympic training camps and sports contests and eliminated salaries for 25,000 athletes and 1,200 coaches. 
The move was not entirely un­expected. Government subsidies had all but dried up in recent years due to the country's eco­nomic crisis, forcing Gossport to rely solely on a national sport lottery to meet rising costs. 
Athletes and coaches also criticized Gossport for exerting undue control over their lives. But they admit that government officials no longer pressure them to win just to prove Communism's superiority. 
"I can't even imagine what 
will happen," Drachevsky said, speaking by telephone from Gossport's drab, four-story headquarters next to Moscow's Lenin Stadium. "This is simply the end." 
The remaining 12 Soviet re­publics agreed last month to field a single Soviet team at the 1992 games. The Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, which became inde­pendent in September, will field individual teams. 
Drachevsky said the order to close Gossport was announced Friday but took effect Dec. 1. The decision came after the State Council decided last month to eliminate about 80 Soviet ministries in a move prompted by Russian Federation President Boris Yeltsin. 
... ~ ..' 
,.,.,·

_.' :;;~·~ff.itn~'-PrcdeS§~?:~·-·,.· Y~?_-~j~;~~~:l!~lpYo~ -·' -..­
-' '··

--<:'>.:,·<·.···Find Books--~·---... ;··-..­





·~~~:ti.t~Q~" . .. '.. 
:;<: :~::;;··>~ fp :.. 
; l, • ..•, 

_ _-_ <:\·.:,~> ~'~1·;z·~::~~f::,):. ~ ,_::':. 
. _:-Fr.ee:giitwr,qpp~g_
:~ ·>-·->.~::_~.:..::..·::...~-.:· ·:···~\-;·/~1.>~:..·;.!.;~..,-: !.·:~.... _-· 
·· ------._,. ··· ·convtmient· 
<_ ~?:~·::_.t. ·~:. ~~----c~~#ic~fe~ 
.---·f~~Ji#~:re:' 
.•··:•· • I 

... :.. ··"~~_:_~·-'_:___:_:.:..__·_.·._ 




BOOKCE 
We help you find books you '/I love. 
Address · Hours ·Phone 
~ mcmhcr of the l.mlc: Pmfc:~~or r..m.lv n£1uull\•11Wnc:J buuk·norc\ 
honwood Plaza North Telephone (219) 277-4488 (near the new Martin's) Hours: Mon.-Sat: 10:00-9:00 Highway 23 at Ironwood Sunday: 10:00-5:00 
The State Council did not ar­range for Gossport's functions to be transferred to other agencies. Drachevsky said the decision to let Gossport die was backed by Russian Economics Minister Yegor Gaidar. 
Given a few years, said Drachevsky, the newly-indepen­dent Soviet federations for each sport can take over many of Gossport's functions, including salaries of athletes and coaches. 
"But the federations are not ready to organize the Olympic teams," Drachevsky said. Gossport traditionally has han­dled visas, transport, medical assistance and coordination with other nations 
Draclievsky said the Soviet Olympic Committee, a private organization similar to Olympic bodies in other nations, is barred by international Olympic rules from taking over Gossport's functions. 
Leaders of each sport federa­tion appealed unsuccessfully to the State Council asking that Gossport be preserved until after the 1992 Olympics. 
Drachevsky said only an inter­republican sports committee can coordinate the Soviet teams at the Winter Games in Albertville, France, and the Summer Games in Barcelona, Spain. 
The Russian government can not take over the planning "because the other republics would refuse to compete as a unified team and say it was dominated by Russia," he said. 


page 15

The Observer 
Monday, December 9, 1991 
CALVIN AND HOBBES MOM'S NOT 
Ft.£Uf\IG Wt.lL SD l'M Mt\'l..l~c; ~t.R t>. ··c;£\ 'tl'tiL 
CARD 

AND DN n.lt. INSIDE IT St-.'iS, ''BEQ..\lSt. M~ 13£.0 I':Ni ~ M'i (LCn\ES NITD Tel Bt M to.~'{. ~D l'M 1-\\lNGR'i" 
'-~'{ 
-=.( 


BILL WATIERSON 
JAY HOSLER 
St.£. Ot-1 Tht. FRC'!N\ 11 Sf>.'6. .. c;u 'tlt.l..l.... 
~~:· 


-
CROSSWORD 
DOWN 

1 Calumet 2 Love, in Spain 
CAMPUS

3 Mischief makers 4 Entra need 
Monday

5 Piggery 6 Basement access 7 Legal claim 9:30 a.m. -4:30 p.m. Annual UNICEF holiday card and gift
8 "Far from the ­
sale. Concourse, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by the Ladies
Crowd" 
of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 

9 Finisher up the 
track 10 a.m.-5 p.m. St. Nicks Christmas Bazaar. Lobby, LeMans 10 Imitator Hall, SMC. 11 01 ympi c event 
7 p.m. Film, "The Stunt Man." Annenberg Auditorium. ...
12 Dairy product from 
7 p.m. Woman's Sprituality-An Opportunity for women to
Fra nee ( 2 wds. ) 
13 Like root beer reflect, dream and pray together, "I am Woman." Wilson Common Lounge.
15 Chaperone 
9:30 pm. Film, "Choose Me." Annenberg Auditorium. 
22 Ex-eager Unseld 24 Organization for Trapper John 
26 VIP in haute cuisine 27 1942 Crosby movie 
(2 wds.)28 Unyielding 29 Like good bacon 31 In harmony 
(2 wds.) 34 Activist MENU 38 City on the Danube 39 Nuclear ­
Notre Dame 

@Edward Julius Collegiate CW8825 40 Sea inlet 
41 Vine supporter33 Ground one's teeth
ACROSS 42 Discovers (2 wds.) Roast Pork Loin with Apples 
35 Zeno of­
43 Rater of mpg Egg Rolls 
1 Poker hands 36 Bread spread 46 ~1yope of cartoons
6 -mater 37 Wall or ceiling Rotini with Marinara Same
50 Attention-getters
10 Pol ice alerts attachment 52 Fair feature
14 Trifling 41 Pay through ­
53-Nagy,
16 Arequipa's country 44 Sir Arthur Conan, Hungarian hero
17 Roll garnish and family 54 Enticement18 City in Oklahoma 45 Aging agent 
55 "As -as a
19 Formerly 46 Uglify20 Words of confidence 47 Wrestling medium painted ship ... " • 
56 Actress Susan,21 Highways (abbr.) 48 Zeta's neighbor and family
22 ----and flutter 

49 Maid of India 59 30-Across, in 1977
23 Hr. Gershwin 51 Lifts weights25 Ending for leg 53 Footnote abbrevi­
26 Imaginery •onster ation

30 Football great 57 Bit of sarcasm 32 Best policy 58 Perfectly fitting 60 One's partner 61 On the average62 Wad components 63 Bread and whiskey64 Allocates, with out 



SMC SILENCE OF THE LAMBS 
8 & lOp.m. Carroll Auditorium $1 Dec. 9-llth 
sponsored by SAB 

Sports 

page 16 Monday, December 9, 1991 
Basketball falls to Georgia 
By RENE FERRAN Lady Hardmon with 24 made back-to-hack layups to Associate Sports Editor points-nine in the give the Bulldogs a 75-73 lead. overtime-and 12 rebounds, After a timeout, Marciniak Freshman Michelle Marciniak while Deborah Carter and Tara drove the lane and was fouled set a school record with 33 Cosby added 15 points apiece. by Hardmon, and her two free 
points on Sunday, but it wasn't throws sent the game to over­enough as the Notre Dame The Irish were ice cold early time. women's basketball team was on, not scoring in the first six­In the overtime period, the unable to overcome a 20-point and-a-half minutes of the game Irish grabbed two one-pointfirst-half deficit and fell to 24th­as Georgia built an 11-point leads, the last at 85-84 with ranked Georgia in overtime, 90-lead. Notre Dame was able to 1:13 left on a Washington three­86, in Athens, Ga. close within eight, 32-24, with pointer. But Hardmon put back 
Marciniak hit 15-of-21 from 4:15 left in the half, but the a Vicky Jones miss to retake the the field-the 15 baskets an­Bulldogs ran off 12 straight lead for Georgia, and after a other Irish record-and two points in a two-minute stretch Marciniak miss, Hardmon free throws with five seconds to take a 44-24 lead. sealed the victory with two free 
remaining in regulation to draw throws with 14 seconds them into a 75-75 tie. However, the Irish closed the remaining. gap to 46-32 by halftime, and 
Her 33 points broke the four­then went on an 11-2 run to Notre Dame snapped out of a year-old Irish scoring record set start the second half to get season-long shooting funk yes­by Heidi Bunek against within five, 48-43, with 16:24 terday, hitting 55 percent from Marquette. Bunek scored 32 left. the field (34-of-62), while the points in an 88-51 victory over Georgia was able to build the Bulldogs shot 50 percent (36-of­
the Warriors back on January lead back to 12, 60-48, with 72).26, 1988. 11:49 remaining, but Notre Georgia outrebounded the 
Senior Margaret Nowlin Dame chipped away at the lead. Irish 40-37, and the host team scored 18 points-16 in the Marciniak scored eight points grabbed 17 offensive rebounds, second half-and freshman and Nowlin seven as the Irish 12 in the first half. The Bulldogs 
Letitia Bowen added eight tied the game at 71 with 2:58 to also had 21 steals and forced points and 10 rebounds before go. Notre Dame into a season-highfouling out with 1:29 left in Twenty seconds later, Coquese 40 turnovers. The Observer I E. G. Bailey
regulation for Notre Dame (1-Washington hit two free throws The Irish conclude their road 
Freshman guard Michelle Marciniak, here against Athletes in Action,
4). to give them their first lead, 73-trip Friday night in Ann Arbor,
The Bulldogs (2-3) were led by broke a school-record by scoring 33 points in yesterday's contest. 
71, but Turner and Hardmon Mich., as they take on Michigan. 

Hockey team takes two 

Kelly Cook makes her mark against Lake Forest 
Senior helped to put Saint Mary's soccer on the map 
By CHRIS BACON citing player I have had the op­to Dallas with an invitation to Sports Writer portunity to work with in my try out for the United States years at Saint Mary's," ex­Women's Soccer B team. The Four years ago, no one plained Belles head soccer U.S. Women's Soccer A Team dreamed that a small, unknown coach Tom Van Meter. "She recently won the World Cup by NAIA team would be promoted plays in a position that is ordi­defeating Norway, 2-1, in China. into the NCAA Division III and narily not noticed because it is Cook twisted her ankle during in its second season there, defense. But because of her the tryout and says she is not would receive national as well technical skills, we were able to pleased with her performence as regional ranking. But that's capitalize on her and she has in Dallas, but says this was a exactly what the Saint Mary's made things happen for us of­true honor to not only play with soccer team has done. fensively as well." girls from the division I level, 
After their second season on ''I'm happy to be able to be but to be given a shot at the the Division III level, the Belles contributing to a nationally national team. rank seventh regionally and ranked team and to be a mem­"It was great that a Division 19th nationally, barely missing ber of a team which never had III member can compete on that their first post-season bid. Four a winning record and watch it level," expressed Cook. "I'm years ago, the soccer team did evolve into a team of national very glad and happy that I was not have a winning record. ranking,"said Cook. given the opportunity to try out 
The team has made a This season, Cook penetrated for that team. It's all your hard tremendous turn-around, due across the defenses of her op­work in practice finally paying in large part to the efforts of ponents to net three goals and off." Belles senior captain Kelly six assists. In her career, she The success of the Belles this Cook, a sweeper. Cook, a totaled 12 goals and eight as­past season is in part due to the fourth-year starter, led the sists. Although that may not efforts of Cook, but she is the Belles not only on defense, but seem like a lot, it was enough to first to point to her other
• 
made a contribution to the earn her second team all-region teammates for the team's suc­
team on offense as well. Cook's recognitions last season, and cess. performance this season has first team all-region this year. "It's not one or two individual earned her the Observer Saint She is in the running for All­players, but it's each individual Mary's Soccer Player of the American and Academic All­with distictive talents. That is 
The Observer I Sean Farnan 
Year Award. American. what helped us go to national
The Notre Dame hockey team won two games against Lake Forest 
"Kelly is by far the most ex-Last weekend, Cook traveled see COOK/ page 12
this past weekend. 


By ANTHONY KING The game would then go to 
St. Mary's swim team wins at home
Assistant Sports Editor overtime, but Notre Dame could not convert on By CHRISTINE PENOTE Although Kathleen Golski, a meter board and dove exhibi­
A scrappy Lake Forest team opportunities to win and were SMC Sports Editor second senior tri-captain, was tion on the 3-meter board. gave the Irish hockey team an forced to settle with a tie. not expected to win, she led her Coach Dennis Cooper had many unexpected challenge this Saturday, the Irish returned The Saint Mary's swim team team to victory smoking Calvin athletes swim and dive many weekend, as Notre Dame had to the Joyce Fieldhouse to moved to winning season sta­College in the 500-meter free. exhibition events which does to come from behind to get a again find themselves in an tus, 2-1, at home Saturday not increase the team score but 
win and tie from the Foresters. early deficit. Lake Forest took beating Calvin College 117-96. "Coach Cooper advised me to adds valuable experience. 
The Irish may have been suf­the early lead on left wing Rob "Some of the girls swam well, let my opponent set the pace "This meet was good practice fering from an emotional Jet Wasik's goal at the 2:13 mark and this is what I expected," and to try to pass her up in the for Wednesday's meet against down, after facing the number of the first period. said Coach Dennis Cooper. twelth lap and to just to do the Elbion," said Cummins. 
one team in the country last Freshman right wing John "Calvin College is in our division best I could," said Golski. "I "Swimming exhibition is useful weekend in Maine. Rushin got the Irish even with but is a weaker team." was really pleased and sur­in giving us time to improve our Whatever the cause, Notre a wrist shot that found the Senior tri-captain Michelle prised that I won the event." weaknesses while competing." Dame found themselves down upper left corner of the net. Colburn was one of Cooper's Former diver, first year The Saint Mary's swim team 3-1 going into the third period The Foresters would return swimmers that swam excep­swimmer and sophomore Kelly takes on Elbion College this 
in Friday night's contest. the favor, as winger Chad tionally well. Colburn dusted Collins also had a successful Wednesday. Being a strong "We were on cruise control Welborn beat goalie Brent her opponents in the 50-meter meet setting a personal record team, Cooper is working to the first part of the game," ex­Lothrop on a o.ne-on-one move freestyle from the crack of the Saturday dropping two seconds physically and mentally prepare plained Irish coach Ric at 12:57 in the first. Notre gun. Leaving everyone in her in the 100-tly. the Belles. Schafer. · Dame and Lake Forest then wake, she finished the 50-meter "It was an interesting meet," "We have dominated them in Notre Dame answered the traded power play goals before free setting a new school record said Collins. "We swam nicely the past," said Cooper, "but wake-up call, however, and Irish defenseman Jason of :26.03, a record previously together as a team and I was they've picked up some veryoutshot the Foresters 15-3 in Konesco tied the game at three held in 1984 by Megan Raferty impressed at what we could strong swimmers headed for third period. The Irish evened to end the first period scoring. at :26.22. do." the Nationals." the contest on a goal from de­In the second period, the "I was just trying to focus on The swimmers were not the The Belles hope that their ex­fenseman Dan Sawyer with Notre Dame defense arose to the swim," said Colburn. "So it only ones who fared well perience Saturday will help
1:31 remaining in the game. was a pleasant surprise for me Saturday. Senior diver Carrie prepare them for their competi­
see HOCKEYI page 12 
to set an unexpected record." Cummins placed first on the 1-tion Wednesday against Elbion. 






