

,~t~&~t 

Se~~er ·S·~·
1102 ·1992 

SISQUICENTINNIAL 

~ " ~ Saint Ma~s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 18 [t-JO, /9J 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
McCurty discusses possible candidacy 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI He is concerned that Ameri­better balance between domes­
News Writer cans are not involved enough in tic and foreign issues. 
the government. "Sixty percent "More people were murdered 
of the nation can tell you the in Washington, D.C. alone dur­
The Notre Dame vote might name of the judge on People's ing the Gulf War than were be just what It takes for Con­Court," he said, "but only six killed in combat," he said. gressman Dave McCurty to win percent can name the chief jus­the presidential election. tice of the United States." The government, he says, 
To test the waters, McCurty He also said that the U.S. has should stop taking steps to the (D-OK) spoke to students to make work more appealing right or left and take a step Wednesday at the Center for to Americans. forward. Social Concerns about a possi­"If we reduce the taxes on ble presidential campaign in those who are working, there "If the Soviet Union can have 1992. He was accompanied by will be more Incentive to work," a revolution, we should be able Indiana Congressman Tim he said. "I tell everyone I talk to to make changes in our own Hoerner. that we have to tax the wealthy; government," said McCurty. 
"A professor told me (today) the middle class deserves a "We have to get back to funda­
that If a Democrat could carry break, and the poor can't keep mentals, we have to force the Notre Dame he would certainly depending on the government." parties to define themselves." 
be able to carry the rest of the The Republican ethic of 
nation," McCurty said. "every man for himself," is an Such changes would give the 
The 1992 election is, he said, ideology that has failed and government credibility. "You "a great opportunity for needs to be changed, the Demo­can't ask people for taxes un­Democrats If we relate to the crat said. less you have some credibility Issues at hand." with them," he said. 
A congressman for 11 years He is not, however, entirely 
and the chairman of the House opposed to President Bush's McCurty issued a challenge to Intelligence Committee, Me­agenda. McCurty commended the audience, "Let's not retreat Curly Is the youngest standing the president for his concern and build walls, let's advance 
The Obeerver/R. G~Wr Schwartzcommittee chairman In the with international politics, but and make this country a better 
Congressman Dave McCurty from Oklahoma talks to students
House. added that there needs to be a place. We can win at this." 
about a possible Democratic bid for the presidency in 1992. 
Bush will send warplanes to Iraq as U.N. escorts 
GHAND CANYON VILLAGE, National Security Adviser hundred Scud missiles of the against Iraq's people, certainly other than to say "We support Ariz. (AP) -President Bush de­Brent Scowcroft said U.S. air­type used against Saudi Arabia they are capable of doing that." the United Nations resolution." clared Wednesday he will send craft would be sent should during the Gulf War." Al-An6url said Iraq had been At United Nations headquar­warplanes to escort U.N. heli­Saddam continue placing re­Bush, asked about the possi­fully cooperating with the ters, Secretary-General Javier copters searching for hidden strictions on inspections, but "if bility of renewed military con­United Nations, and was trying Perez de Cuellar said he saw no Iraqi weapons if Saddam Hus­he will comply with the U.N. flict, said, "I don't think Saddam to make arrangements so the sign the Iraqis were ready to sein continues to impede the in­resolutions there won't need to wants that. I'm confident he weapons inspectors could do drop their resistance to spectors. Bush said he was be an execute order." doesn't." their job without violating Iraq's weapons inspections. "plenty fed up" with Saddam ·The U.S. effort, dubbed However, Bush added, ''I'm national sovereignty. The senior official traveling but not looking for a new war. "Operation Determined Re­plenty fed up. I think the man In Damascus, Syria, Secretary with Bush said, "There are 
Bush and other lop adminis­solve," could include "anything will see we are very serious of State James Baker said he some units that will definitely tration officials, while raising from Apache helicopters to F-about this.... He knows better and Syrian President Hafez go in (to Saudi Arabia) ... some the prospect of imminent mili­15s to A WACs," a Pentagon than to take on the United Assad "had a compete discus­within the next day or so." He tary activity, sought to cut short source said. An administration States of America." sion of Iraq's failure once again spoke on condition of any speculation that new statement said American heli­Bush made the comments to comply with U.N. reso­anonymity. fighting was in store. "This Is copters also could be provided during a hike into the Grand lutions." Pentagon sources, a~o not Desert Storm II," one senior to the U.N. inspection teams. Canyon o_n a trip to promote his Baker said he had similarly speaking privately, said one U.S. aide said. Scowcroft said that Saudi environmental policies. communicated with the gov­air wing had been ordered to 
The president said of Saddam, Arabia, where the planes would Iraq's ambassador to the ernments of Egypt, Israel and prepare to fly to the region. "There's just determination ... be placed, had requested and United Nations, Abdul Amir al­Saudi Arabia, but he declined to Supporting forces, which would that he will comply" with the would receive Patriot missiles Anbari, dismissed the situation characterize their reactions to provide intelligence informa­United Nations mandate for for defensive purposes. Presi­as "a tempest in a teacup," but Bush's decision to send war­tion, security and fly possible Inspection and destruction of dential spokesman Marlin added, "Of course, if the coali­planes to the area. Syrian For­rescue missions if needed, Iraq's nuclear and other major Fitzwater said later, "We be­tion led by the United States eign Minister Farouk Sharaa would be included in the pack­weapops facilities. lieve Iraq still possesses several wants to commit an aggression refused comment on that point, age, the sources said. 


The Obaerwr/R. Garr Schwartz 

NO-mobiles 
Notre Dame students find a new way to fight the breezy weather on their way to classes with style. NO sidewalks have recently been sporting many of these little club cars. 
Sandman will leave Notre Dame for Cincinnati office in November 
Special to The Observer 
$54 million, or more than $1 
million a week. 
Joseph Sandman, director of "Joe Sandman's efforts for development at the University Notre Dame will be evident for of Notre Dame since 1983, has years to come In the life of the resigned effective November 15 University, from student finan­to become vice president for cial aid to major campus facili­university relations and ad­ties to funding for research," vancement at Xavier University said William Sexton, Notre in Cincinnati. Dame's vice president for uni­
During Sandman's tenure, versity relations. Notre Dame's development "We will continue to benefit programs achieved record re­not only from the dollars he sults for the University and helped to raise but also from have been ranked among the the innovative programs he most successful in American Joseph Sandman helped to establish," Sexton higher education. The University's Strategic added. 
Moment Campaign, concluded Sandman joined the Notre 
The most recent annual re­·in January 1991, was the most Dame development staff as di­port of the Council for Aid to successful capital campaign in rector of foundation and cor­Education (CAE) ranked Notre the history of Catholic higher porate relations in 1979 after Dame first among Catholic uni­education, raising $463 million, lmving been director of career versities and sixteenth among and cash contributions to the planning and placement and di­all the nation's private univer­University during fiscal year rector of foundation and gov­sities in voluntary support. 1990 were a University record ernment relations at Xavier. 
page2 Thursday, September 19, 1991
The Observer 
FORECAST:

INSIDE COLUMN 
Partly cloudy today 


















with a high in the low 
50s. Possible rain Friday with temperatures in the 50s. 
Kids remind us 
of what is 
TEMPERATURES:


important 

City H L Athens 84 64 Atlanta 94 74
Notre Dame is Fisher 

Bet"lin 68 50 Boston 89 68 Chicago 77 53 
Price mainstreet. 
We have a fire station, 

Dallas-Ft.Worth 91 72
post office, barber shop, Jahn_elle Harrigan 
68 40 74 55 89 77 
bank and restaurants Assistant Accent 
(ok-~ell, the Huddle). It's Editor 
93 71 
80 62
easy to forget sometimes 
64 57
that an outside world 
69 61
actually exists. 
97 66 
86 81
Inte ractio n with anY.-:-----:---:-:-:­

66 52
person that isn't between the ages 18 and 22 is 
93 75 
93 72
rare, and that is why, in my humble opinion, NO 
77 48
students tend to lose sight of things. You 
94 72
know-things that really matter-things that 
86 59 
77 60 77 55
only a four year-old could truly understand. 
I worked as a preschool teacher at a day care 

85 60 
center this summer because I love kids. I love 
62 58 
72 68
the way they talk. I love how they play. I love the 
96 73
way they sit in my lap. 
I don't, however, love the way they throw temper tantrums when someone takes their favorite Ninja Turtle action figure (but that's not important right now.) 
You'd be surprised-four year-olds are amazing. Grown-ups may think that they know 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
more about life than an average preschooler, but I'm not so sure. Take, for example, Sarah and Peter. As I read 
WORLD NATIONAL
"How the Grinch Stole Christmas" (a little out of season, yes, I admit), these two little tots stopped me and proceeded to explain the real meaning of Christmas. 
A9uino ur~ed not to save Subic AT&T blames heat for disruption 
• ANILA, P ilipplnes -The vice 
•NEW YORK -For six hours, technicians failed toThey told me that it isn't the presents or the 
chairman of the panel that react to alarms warning of trouble that led to a
Christmas tree that matter; instead, it's more negotiated the lease for Subic Bay telephone failure and air traffic control disruption thatimportant just to be with family. Pretty deep for 
naval base said Thursday that 
delayed hundreds of flights nationwide, AT&T saida couple of kids, huh? 
President Corazon Aquino shouldDuring naptime one day, Taylor, a good­Wednesday. AT&T blamed a power disruption at a abandon efforts to override a Senatenatured little girl, woke up and had wet her phone switching center in Manhattan for the problem,decision closing the facility. Onpants. She sheepishly (and uncomfortably, I which virtually closed three large airports for severalMonday, the Senate voted 12-11 toimagine) walked over to me and explained that hours Tuesday night. Consolidated Edison, the local 
reject an agreement under which
because it was so warm outside, her shorts electric utility, asked AT&T to use internally generated Washington would return Clark Airwere "a little sweaty." 
power at the station because Tuesday's 93 degree heat
Base next year but keep Subic for 10 more years in
Mter helping her change clothes I began to created heavy energy demand. 

return for $203 million in annual aid. Aquino extended 
realize that maybe it's not always necessary to 
the stay of the Americans indefinitely pending a
tell the whole truth-especially when you can 
referendum she hopes to organize for December or
save yourself a little embarrassment. 
early next year. Administration officials acknowledge Police chief has big plans for Corvette Preschoolers are health conscious. A certain legal problems in deciding how to proceed with the •wATERLOO, Iowa -The police chief plans to driveyoung person made a point of telling me that my plan. 
a Corvette confiscated from a drug dealer to put some "Caffeine keeps you awake, Jahnelle," she said, 
daily habit of Diet Pepsi at 9 a.m. wasn't smart. 
muscle into his anti-drug program. Chief Bernal "but it isn't good for your body." Words to live 
INDIANA Koehrsen says he will take the red 1984 muscle car by. 
and paint it white to match the rest of the fleet. Then Then there's Matt. The tallest, loudest, and 
he'll paint 3-inch, red block letters on the rear end oldest of the bunch. When another child's father, 
Purduedanitor kills boss for asoirin saying, "Confiscated from drug dealers." "Police are 
•LAFAY TTE, Ind. -A former PurdUe University going to hit the drug dealers where it hurts, and that's 
who is quite overweight, came into the 
custodian killed his former boss because she would not 
in the pocketbook," Koehrsen said. Convicted
classroom, Matt spoke up and asked "Are you give him aspirin for a heart condition, the custodian's marijuana dealer Bobby sykes, from whom the Corvette trying to lose weight? You're really FAT." 
attorney said Wednesday in opening arguments. 
was confiscated in 1987, has appealed the seizure toAbout two days later he asked another dad 
Robert Lyon, 59, is on trial in Tippecanoe Circuit Court 
the Iowa Supreme Court. "They have io win yet,· hewho sported that ever-popular tatoo look "Will 
for murder in connection with the Feb. 20 fatal shoot­
said. "It is not over until it's over. • Koehrsen estimatedthose things will wash off? They're SO ugly." 
ing of his former boss, Barbara Clark, 41, a building 
the reh(lb at $2,300, paid for with forfeited drugThe lesson to be learned: don't beat around 
services supervisor. Lyon confessed to the shooting 
money.

the bush-it won't get you anywhere. 
shortly afterward, but he pleaded innocent earlier this 
Probably the most memorable statement of month.

the summer was from Josh-the resident pyschopath child. 
As I took a toy away from him (he was using it as a sledgehammer to beat on a toddler's head), he said in his standard Exorcist voice, "Teacher, I'm gonna kill you if it's the last thing I do." 
OF INTEREST 
Ok. This stimulates a little bit of fear on the part of the adult. But hey, it keeps us on our toes, right? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of 
•TIMOTHY O'MEARA, University provost, will speak •LOGAN CENTER needs volunteers for a bowling trip 
The Observer. 
on "Notre Dame and Catholic Education in the United this Friday. Volunteers should meet Friday in front of States" from 12:15 -1 p.m. in Rm. 124 of the Center for Holy Cross Hall (SMC) at 3:30 p.m. or at Pasquerilla West 

Today's Staff 

Social Concerns. Professor O'Meara's talk is part of the driveway at 3:45 p.m. to go to Beacon Bowl. You Will be Friday Forum series sponsored by the CSC. back on campus by 6 p.m. 
News Sports Paul Pearson Rolando de Aguiar Ann Marie Hartman 
Accent 

MARKET UPDATE BN THIS DAY IN HISTORY Graphics Jahenell Harrigan 
• In 1881: the 20th president of the United States, James 
Ann-Marie Conrado Fran Moyer 
Garfield, died of wounds inflicted by an assassin eleven
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 19
Pat Moran 
weeks earlier. 

VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 173.95 Million 212.23 + .69 
Production 
Kathy Fong Business 
• In 1955: President Juan Peron of Argentina was ousted
S&P COMPOSITE 

after a revolt by the army and the navy.
Cheryl Moser Colleen Gannon 
386.94 .. 1.44 
Colette LaForce 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
• In 1957: the United States conducted its first 
3,017.89 .. 4.70 
underground nuclear test, in the Nevada desert. PRECIOUS METALS 
•In 1984: Britain and CIWla completed a draft agreement 

GOlD -ft $ 1.90to $349.20/oz. 
on transferring Hong Kong from British to Chinese rule by
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 
1997.
through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 


sn..VER + 2.3¢ to $4.08oz. 
• In 1985: the first of a pair of devastating earthquakes 
Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 

that claimed at least 6,000 lives struck Mexico City. 



Thursday, September 19, 1991 The Observer page 3 

to explain his role in the fight ists, "not as a charity, but as a Halls through Friday. against world hunger. 

Investigator
WE'RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
Partnership for a Drug-Free Amenca 
probes fatal train wreck 


PU(t.fOUTH, Ind. (AP) -A westbound train driven by a student engineer ran a stop signal in Knox moments before it collided head-on with an eastbound train hauling 95 tank cars carrying sulfur, a federal investigator said Wednesday night. 
"Preliminary Information and inspections have determined that the westbound train passed the stop signal at the west end of Knox ·and ran through a switch that was
AHention ND & SMC Sophomores 
aligned against It," said Susan Coughlin, vice chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. 
The two Norfolk Southern trains slammed Into each other


Reggae RegaHa 
on Tuesday in a rural area near Knox in northern Indiana. The impact killed an engineer on
''Come sail Away on Lake Michigan'' 
the eastbound train and injured 
.. 
five crew members. One re­mained hospitalized Wednes­day. Damage was estimated at $3.34 million. 
The westbound train had

Sophomore Class Cruise-Th~rsday, Oct. 3 
been Instructed to stop on the main line in Knox and wait for the eastbound train to move into the siding at Knox, Cough­lin said. 
The student engineer was

Buses will leave main circle at 5 pm and return at midnight 
driving the eastbound train when the accident occurred
dinner will be provided on the cruise. 
Tuesday, Coughlin said. 
"He indicated that he had an all-clear signal at Knox and that he had slowed down to 35 mph and was in the process of 
increasing his train to operat­
ing speed when he saw the 
headlight of the other train, 
Tickets $25 -on sale from Oct. 18-25 
at LaFortune Information Desk 
threw his train into emergency braking and jumped, n she said. 





Sept 20-21 lOam-8pm 
~® 
RISH 

jewelry, Sweaters, Music, Sweatshirts-T's and 

GREATER COLUMDUS


Items 
CONVENTION CENTER 400 NORTH HIGH STREET COLUMBUS, OHIO 43215 

• (614) 461-0346
Or call us from home-We shtp U.P.S. 
FAX (614> 224-3054 


The Observer/John Rock Jim Mundell, founder of the Choi-Chol foundation speaks to students about the Wednesday Lunch-Fast program that will begin on September 25. The money that would have been spent on a students' lunch will go for the hungry in Choi-Chol, Chile. 


Fasting program helps hungry 
By JEANNIE SHIN 
News Writer 
Wednesday Lunch-Fast pro­gram participants can take comfort in knowing that one less meal a week means a day's worth of food for the hungry in Chol-Chol, Chile. 
The lunch-fast program asks students to sacrifice one meal a week and to join in the fight against world hunger. The money raised is devoted directly to helping four organizations, including the Chol-Chol Foun­dation, a non-profit organiza­tion fighting world hunger. Last year, $13,000 was raised through the Notre Dame pro­gram. 
To educate its participants about the purpose of the pro­gram, the World Hunger Coali­tion (WHC), in conjunction with the Center for Social Concerns, hosted Jim Mundell, founder of the Chol-Chol Foundation, last night. 
Because the WHC thought that a better understanding of the processes of raising and al­locating funds would get more students involved in the lunch­fast program, it asked Mundell 
Mundell discussed the magni­tude of the world hunger prob­lem and the foundation's method of remedy, specifically, the use of money contributed by Notre Dame students. 
To accomplish its goals, the foundation looks only to the Notre Dame Wednesday Lunch­Fast participants and one other private organization for funds. By participating in the lunch­fast program, ND students di­rectly aid in paying for supplies, in hiring the native educators, in making loans to those farmers facing poverty, among other necessities. 
By understanding the inter­workings of a program like the Chol-Chol Foundation, the WHC hoped that students would real­ize how much so little could do, according to Mundell. 
Kara Lackey, an active mem­ber of the coalition, said, "look at what you have and look at what little you'd have to sacri­fice -one meal," and urged stu­dents to seriously consider the Wednesday Lunch-Fast pro­gram. 
The Chol-Chol Foundation was legally established in 1971. After over-coming a rough start, the organization now ex­teaching institution ... as a bridge between tlw 'haves and the have-nots' ... as one who lends a hand," according to Mundell. 
Stationed in Washington, D.C., and in Chol-Chol, Chile, the organization consists of a few natives, and a board of ad­visors, on which President­emeriths Father Theodore Hes­burgh serves. 
It devotes its time and en­ergy to long term solutions as evident in their motto: "If you give a person a fish, you feed him for a day; if you teach them how to fish, you feed him for life." Instead of offering immediate help, the Chol-Chol hires educated natives to teach farmers in their own town about modern farming and animal husbandary. 
According to Mundell, with the help of programs like the lunch-fast, the Chol-Chol Foun­dation has been successful. He says that although "there is still so much to be done, I do want to express thanks to the students of Notre Dame. You've really been a great help.
n 

Sign-ups for the Wednesday Lunch-Fast will be held in both the North and South Dining 

--~----------~----~­
The Observer Thursday, September 19, 1991
page 4 


Another Georgian dissident arrested 
TBILISI, U.S.S.R. (AP) -Ge­orgian authorities arrested an­other dissident leader Wednes­day after President Zviad Gam­sakhurdia urged his supporters to rid the republic of forces trying to unseat him. 
Georgi Haindrava, 32, a famed filmmaker who fought alongside Gamsakhurdia for Georgian independence, was seized after midnight on Rus­taveli Avenue, a site of political rallies the past two weeks. 
Hours later, police abandoned efforts to remove heavy concrete blocks that form one of two makeshift barriers de­fended by young protesters across the wide street. 
About 100 police militiamen showed up with a crane, but protesters climbed on the blocks and stood peacefully for several hours until the officers left. 
Haindrava, 32, is best known for his documentary about an April 9, 1989, pro-independence rally in Tbilisi in which Soviet troops brutally killed 20 people with shovels and gas. 

The incident caused a na­tionwide furor, raised doubts about Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev's proclaimed policy against using force to stifle dissent and brought many Ge­orgians into the battle for in­dependence. 
Haindrava was held on a three-day preliminary detention order. Georgi Chanturia, the National Democratic Party leader, was arrested 24 hours earlier under the same decree, according to party spokesman Guram Chahvadze. 
Chanturia's wife, Irina Sar­ishvili, was detained with him after the Aeroflot flight to Moscow they were on was turned around after takeoff. A third party official, Vakthang Talahadze, was released with­out explanation Tuesday. 

The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz 
All systems on go 
Workers busily prepare for the upcoming CBS fair. This family feud exhibit takes shape outside Flanner Tower where students inspect the pending attraction. 
Bush sends funds to areas with high infant mortality rates 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Fifteen service providers, businesses areas with high infant mortality and volunteers in a program rates will share $25 million in· that will wrap pregnant women federal grants this year to start and babies in a blanket of programs designed to improve care," said Health and Human health care for pregnant Services Secretary Louis Sulli­women and infants, President van, who joined Bush in Salt Bush announced Wednesday. Lake City to announce the 
The "Healthy Start" programs communities selected for the will be set up in communities program. Sullivan's formal re­and areas of cities tha,.l have marks were released in Wash­some of the highest infarif death ington. rates in the country. The goal is Bush, during an arrival cere­to cut those rates by half over mony in Salt Lake City, said the the next five years. -program would "stress good 
"Each community has devel­pre-natal care, including oped a plan to creatively ener­healthy lifestyles for expectant gize their families, their health mothers." And "We will point to 
..----------------~~~~~----~-..

Rl.de Horses at Home?. 
lRidc Here! 
Available for lease during 91-92 school year. 

One quality thoroughbred hunter. This horse is safe and 
has won the local medal classes. 
Call Chris Kerner at Four Flags Farm 616-471-5711 





SECONDARY EDUCATION 


MANDATORY 

FOR AU CURRENT & NEW STUDENTS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23 
6:30 • S:oo pm 
Moreau Little Theatre 



communities such as yours, where the public works to en­sure that babies are born healthy," he said. 
The grants will go to: 19 Ab­erdeen Area Indian reservation communities in Iowa, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota; Baltimore, Md.; Birmingham, Ala.; Boston, Mass.; Chicago, Ill.; Cleveland, Ohio; Detroit, Mich.; Lake County (including Gary), Ind.; New Orleans, La.; New York City; Oakland, Calif.; Philadel­phia, Pa.; Pittsburgh, Pa.; a six­county region in northeastern South Carolina; and Washing­ton, D.C. 
Among the strategies of these 
programs are ensuring preg­
nant women access to care at convenient times and places and making sure women know care is available and under­stand how to get it. 
The programs also will be tailored to meet the needs of each individual community, ad­dressing such things as teen­age pregnancy, poor nutrition, inadequate pre-natal care, smoking, alcohol and drug abuse, officials said. 
"These communities are go­ing to show the rest of us what can be done to get this nation out of the basement in infant mortality ratings," said Dr. James Mason, HHS assistant secretary for health. 
About 40,000, or 1 percent of the 4 million infants born an­nually in the United States, do not reach their first birthday. This rate is higher than the rates in 23 other industrialized countries. 
Congress appropriated $25 million for the program this year. The Bush administration had wanted to supplement that by diverting nearly $60 million from other programs, but lawmakers refused to go along. 
The administration has asked Congress to spend $171 million on the program in the next fis­cal year, which begins Oct. 1. 
Dr. Jennifer Howse, president of the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, praised the government program, noting, "we are grateful that America's infant mortality problem now is receiving so much attention and support from the President and from Congress." 
.-----------------------------~--­


HEWITT ASSOCIATES CORRECTION INTERVIEW SIGN--UPS FOR OCTOBER31 &NOVEMBER 1 
WILL TAKE PLACE ON: MON., SEPTEMBER 23 TUES., SEPTEMBER 24 
at Career & Placement Servjces 

Thursday, September 19, 1991 

SMC board focuses on security, parietals 
By JENNIFER HABRVCH to be held with the Richard Ch­
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor lebek, director of Saint Mary's 
security. 
The newly-formed Residence 

Security and new parietal Hall Association (RHA) ad­proposals were the issues dis­dressed its first priority as a cussed at the Saint Mary's committee to study and attempt Board of Governance (BOG) to change the parietal system. Open Forum Wednesday. In the next few weeks it plans 
Suggestions made to improve to survey students in the dining SMC security include the addi­hall to see their reactions to tion of a security gate at the expanding parietals to earlier main entrance of Saint Mary's; in the day, and ending the pol­more security phones and blue icy of male guests leaving an ID lights on all existing phones; a at the front desk. fence to seal off the south side Ellen McQuillan, head of RHA, of campus near the railroad said that these changes and tracks; more campus lighting; others in the five residence the trimming of trees; mirrors halls can only be made if they in the tunnels; and the estab­receive student input. RHA will lishment of a safe walk pro­hold its first open meeting Oc­gram. tober 6. 
At the meeting, students also At the meeting, reports were expressed concern dealing with given by members of BOG con­the age of the security officers cerning plans for activities by and the amount of time it takes the Student Acedemic Council, dispatchers to answer security Student Activities Board, RHA phones. The security and in­and the Service Center. formation telephone lines are Reforms and projects for one-in-the same making com­BOG's six policy committees munication with security diffi­(which include the computer, cult. tradition, Student Alliance of 
Plans to Implement self-de­Women's Colleges, recycling, fense courses on a periodic ba­campus improvement, and se­sis were discussed, as well as curity committees) were also the possibility of an open forum discussed. 

WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 'rOUR LIFE 
American Heart Association 

'~ BRilliANTTHRI111Rf" 
-Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE 

"THIIISTfilM OF THE YIARI" 
-Potor Rainer. LOS ANGELES TIMES 
"SO GOOD OlllliAYIS THI THIATRI 011 A SPIU80UIID HIGHI" 
-VIncent Canby. THE NEW YORK TIMES 
Cinema at the 'Snlte 
Frld and Saturda 7:15,9:45 

GYROS

~ 
Grand Opening Specials are: 


Gyro Sandwich .............................................. $2.75 1/4 Pound Cheeseburger ............................. $0.99 2 Chicago Style Hot Dogs w/ Fries ............. $1.99 1/2 Barbecue Chicken Dinner ..................... $3.49 Rib Tip Dinner .............................................. $4.75 21 Shrimp Dinner ......................................... $3. 79 
(all Dinners include french fries, cole slaw and garlic bread) 

Show Student ID and get a free 16 oz. drink with your urchase. Expiration date for the drink is September 29t 
: : : : : : : : : : N':ew:location:is now open : : : : : : : : : : : 
~' P~x~~ \.V~Y. ~~rpt~ ~9s~~~4 Ne*t:t~ ~9~~~ay ~1in:27~-()6p~ · · · · · · · · · Dining, Carry-out,·Drive~Thru · · · · · · · · · 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :Horus: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
:Mqn~ 'fh:ufS:lJ:()Q-~t;op: fri-$~t:Il:Q0:-1:2:PQ : $U:n:tJ:(XHO;o9 : 
The Observer 
The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz 

ROTC cadets learn to keep cool 
Senior Jen Coyne instructs Army ROTC cadets of the importance of quick response to heat related injuries. ' 
99¢ same lllze for 99c 

explraUon date!0/6 




SENIORS 
The Pre-Law Society's Personal Statement Seminar will be on Thursday, Sept. 19, at 7 pm in the library Auditorium. Professor Srens will be there to provide insights into writing an effective personal statement. 
~-------------­
page 5 

Class 
continued from page 12 THEODORE'S THEODORE'S THEODORE'S Friday nite: Dance Party 
D.J. Roy IIIII! 10 to 1:30 (Club dosed Saturday) 
NOTRE DAME VIDEO 
'NEW MOVIES' 
• 
Awakenings 

• 
Dances With Wolves 

• 
Edward Scissorhands 

• 
New Jack City 

• 
HomeAione 


'SPECIAL MEMBERSHIP RATES' 
• Basement of the Stud. Center 
4:00 • 7:00 p.m. 7DAYSAWEEK 
Mend your face and I'll mend my ways I 
QA

~\:@ 

PA.TTifS 
D VIJURSELF A FLAVOR
-·-...---·-·
------­
DINNERFOR 2 

FOR $8.99 Pick any two Gourmet Sandwiches, two lfarden Salads, 
plus your chace ol French Frlea or Onion Rlnlfl and 2 Mlni-Sundaea 

explraUon date10/6 
SUNDAE Buy any size sundiU! and recel"" a second one ollhe 


campus organization. 
ll8SOLUfiLY NO INVISfMINT RIQUIRIDI 
CALL 1·800·950-8472, ext. 50 
The Observer is now accepting applications for: 
Circulation Drivers 

Must be available Friday afternoons 
Contact Joe Guddemi @ 283-3936 or Gil Gomez @ 239-7471 
. The Set:re( of Getting Rich: 
Amazing Book Tells All. 
Free Offer Details-Send a sell-addressed stamped envelope to: Book, P.O. Box 311 Mercersburg, PA 1723&-A 
UISI $500...$1 000...$1500 






RAISING 
For your fraternityso;or1ty, team or other 



~------------­
The Observer 

page 6 Thursday, September 19, 1991 
Baker discusses New cease-fire met with gunfire; 
. 


Croatian defense minister resigns 
peace with Assad 

ZAGREB, Yugoslavia {AP) -British Broadcasting Corp. "I not be otherwise confirmed. 
DAMASCUS {AP) -Secretary 
of State James Baker said 
Thursday the United States 
supports Syria's demand for the 
return of the Golan Heights, 
occupied by Israel since the 
1967 Arab-Israeli War. 
After a six-hour meeting with 
Syrian President Hafez Assad, 
Baker told a news conference 
that the letter of assurances he 
gave Assad states that United 
Nations resolutions calling for 
the return of all occupied terri­
tories "apply on all fronts. 
"That means they apply not 

just to the West Bank and Gaza, 
but to the Golan as well." 
The secretary said the posi­
tion advanced to Assad was a 
restatement of long standing 
U.S. policy. However, its inclu­sion in the formal letter makes it a key element of the planning for a proposed Mideast peace conference. 
During his current trip to the Mideast, Baker is delivering 
Solzhenitsyn will return to Soviet Union 

MOSCOW {AP) -Soviet ac­tivists are welcoming the gov­ernment's decision to drop treason charges against Nobel Prize-winning author Alexander Solzhenitsyn, who now says he will return from 17 years of forced exile in the United States. 
Chief Soviet Prosecutor Niko­lai Trubin on Tuesday said a 1974 decision by the Supreme Soviet to expel the author from the country was "baseless," the official Tass news agency said in a brief dispatch. 
·There was "no proof whatso­ever testifying to any crime committed by Alexander Solzhenitsyn," Trubin was quoted as saying. 
The decision was yet another step to reverse the harsh poli­cies of the former Communist­led regime, which was replaced this month with a decentralized government after last month's failed hard-line coup. 
Solzhenitsyn, now 72, said from his home in Cavendish, Vt., that "The decision of the 
U.S.S.R. prosecutor general now removes the legal obstacle impeding my return to my na­tive land. Therefore it becomes a reality -I shall return to my native land." , . 
He gave no timeframe for his return in the statement, saying he wanted to complete some writings he'd started in the United States before returning. 
An uncompromising critic of Communist tyranny and West­ern decadence, Solzhenitsyn books include a three-volume work entitled "The Gulag Archipelago," about forced-la­bor camps in Siberia under Josef Stalin. 
Solzhenitsyn's brutal arrest on Feb. 12, 1974 and summary expulsion to West Germany a day later became an interna­tional symbol of Soviet repres­sion under Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev. 
News of Tuesday's decision spread quickly. 
"Wonderful!" exclaimed Ye­lena Bonner, widow of human rights leader Andrei Sakharov. "It should have happened a long time ago." 
such letters to most of the par­ties that would attend the con­ference the United States hopes to -convene by the end of Octo­ber. 
Joining Baker at the news conference was Syrian Foreign Minister Farouk Sharaa, who said, "The Golan is an integral of the Syrian land and it should be returned to Syria if peace is to be re-established in the re­gion." 
Sharaa also said that if the United States grants Israel $10 billion in housing loan guaran­tees without delay "it would be a major obstacle to peace." 
However, the foreign minister did not respond when asked di­rectly if Syria would boycott a peace conference if Congress overrides President Bush's de­mand for a 120-day delay in the consideration of the loan guar­antees to help Israel build housing for Soviet immigrants. 
Combatants in Croatia on Wednesday inaugurated the latest cease-fire agreement with gunfire, bombs and shelling, and key mediators expressed pessimism about peace prospects in the secessionist republic. 
The European Community­brokered truce, signed Tuesday, was already in tatters moments after the cease-fire deadline passed. Previous cease-fires have collapsed within days. 
More than 450 people have died in fighting in Croatia since the republic declared its inde­pendence on June 25. 
Lord Carrington -the Euro­pean Community mediator who signed the cease-fJie agreement Tuesday with the Croatian and Serbian presidents and the fed­eral defense minster, said he would not return to Yugoslavia if it failed. 
"I don't think there's anything else if this doesn't work," he said in an interview with the mean, how can you hold a peace conference wh~n every­one is killing each other?" 
On Wednesday, people stand­ing in front of the railway sta­tion in downtown Zagreb, the Croatian capital, threw them­selves under cars as gunfire and explosions were heard nearby. Sniper fire and machine gun blasts rattled the city. 
Heavy fighting was reported in Varazdin, northeast of Za­greb; Sibenik, south on the Adriatic coast; and Vukovar in the far eastern part of Croatia. 
Three air raid alarms sounded in the span of a few hours before and after the truce deadline, sending people in about 20 Croatian towns scurrying for shelters. 
Croatia claimed to have shot down several Air Force jets, but the military denied it. The Tan­jug news agency said one plane was downed near Petrinja, about 30 miles south of Zagreb, but that and other claims could 
Meanwhile, Croatian Defense Minister Luka Bebic resigned and was replaced by a deputy, Gojko Susak, Croatian TV re­ported. Bebic had been criti­cized for failing to consult with President Franjo Tudjman be­fore ordering Croatian forces on Tuesday to hold their fire on Yugoslav army barracks unless they were fired upon. 
In Belgrade, a source close to the federal government told The Associated Press that Fed­eral Premier Ante Markovic had said he might soon replace fed­eral Defense Minister Veljko Kadijevic if the defense chief does not quit. 
The influence of Markovic, a proponent of Yugoslav unity, has declined in recent weeks. 
In Croatia, the stage was set for more confrontations. Bel­grade TV said Serbian guerillas occupied Sarvas, a Croatian stronghold three miles south­east of Osijek, in an area of Croatia that borders Serbia. 

WSBT AND CBS TELEVISION NETWORK INVITE YOU TO ···~·!~;ii]J in CBS soap operas --~ *'!·1!! sports plays ···~J[]§f!:#IJ movie previews Come On••• Down! Q!·Sjl The Price lsRight & Family Feud M;j #I :0::•1 ;j j your local weather ' " '\. \ I I I I I I I Win Prizes! Free ,;;;;w.,.loiiiilol,. a national sweepstakes ........ a Mazda MX-3 GS, walk-onGifts! roles in CBS shows, IBM PS/2 computers, and more! Sponsored by Videocassettes courtesy of maxell., • TIU' (jATa.T. .J:..)oiT\H ·..,. ........ -~· UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME STEPAN FIELD SEPT. 19, 12PM-6PM • SEPT 20, 10AM-4PM  


The Observer 

Thursday, Septmeber 19, 1991 page 7 

WASHINGTON (AP) 
1998. 
commodate the withdrawal of the tax Increase. Every penny of higher gasoline taxes raises about a billion dollars a year; the 5-cent tax had been counted on to raise and additional $32 billion over five years for high-said. 
The Senate adopted its own $123 billion version of the bill earlier in the year, with no ga­soline tax increase. 
Foley said he was prepared to go forward with the trans-than $10 billion in highway and mass transit projects ear­marked for the districts of in­dividual members, the percep­tion grew that the tax increase would be used to finance "pork barrel" spending. 

Texas youth sues school district over prayer at school 
DALLAS (AP) -A girl testified that she was stunned after moving to a Dallas suburb when she saw her classmates in a seventh grade physical education class link hands in prayer. 
"I was just not used to having to pray, and in order to fit In, I had to pray," said the girl, now 14, who along with her parents filed a lawsuit seeking to pro­hibit prayer In the Duncanville school district. 
"I really didn't like It, but since I was in a new school, I didn't want to start anything. I 
wanted to be accepted," she said. 
Attorneys representing her and her parents asked U.S. Dis­trict Judge Robert Maloney on Tuesday to issue an injunction prohibiting religious activities in the Duncanville schools. 
The practice Is a violation of constitutional guarantees of free speech and separation of church and state, the ACLU ar­gued. The lawsuit claims prayers were said at pep rallies, on buses after games, and after daily practices. 
District officials testified that Christian prayers have been a part of sports and other school activities in Duncanville for al­most two decades. 

The testimony of the girl and her parents, identified In the court action only as "Jane Doe" and "Mr. and Mrs. John Doe," was recorded Monday and read in court Tuesday by ACLU lawyer Frank Chandler to protect their identities. 
The girl said she bowed her head at each prayer until her father told her she didn't have to participate. 
After one game in the seventh 
HOW WOULD YOU LIKE 
TO WORK FOR: 
Allstate Amurol Black & Decker Commonwealth Edison Dean Witter First Brands Hallmark Cards, Inc. H.J. Heinz Heinz Pet Products The Keebler Company Kellogg Kraft, Inc. Maytag McCaw Cellular Communications McDonald's Corp. 
Miller Brewing Company Mrs. Smith's Frozen Foods Co. 

Nintendo Noxell Corp. Oldsmobile Philip Morris, Inc. Pillsbury (Including Green Giant) Procter & Gamble Richardson-Vicks, Inc. Samsonite Luggage Schenley Industries, Inc. S~aly, Inc. The Seven-Up Company Sony Corporation of America StarKist Tropicana United Airlines Unocai 

ALL OF THEM. 
They're our clients. Or rather, our partners. For their business is our business. 
Every day, we contribute marketing and advertising ideas to all these blue chip companies, working as a team to move their business ahead. 
If you'd like a career with a challenging diversity, and one that's also a lot of fun, come hear about the advertising business according to Leo Burnett. 
Client Service Presentation Undergrads MBA's Thursday, September 19 Monday, September 30 6:00pm 7:00pm Senior Bar Monogram Room 
P.S. Free Apples ACC 
LEO BUHNE'I1' COMPANY.\NC. 35 W. Wacker Drive Chicago, Illmois 60601 
I 
III 
I 
' 

grade, she testified, as she stood behind her kneeling teammates at center court, waiting while they recited the Lord's Prayer, a spectator yelled, "Why Isn't she praying? Isn't she Christian?" 
The school district maintains that the prayers are student­initiated and do not interfere with the right to free speech. The girl said prayers were said at the prompting of her coach. 
Since the lawsuit was filed last spring, the district has barred teachers and coaches from initiating prayers during school hours, a coach testified. 
School district officials stopped prayers at pep rallies after the girl's father com­plained last January. 
The girl testified that her eighth grade team did not say prayers, but she said that the coach, after the lawsuit was filed, called the team together and said the person who filed the suit had "no guts" for going by Jane Doe. 

liCAMPUS GOLF:! 
2 PERSON SCRAMBLE 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 TEE TIMES STARTING AT 11:00 AM AT THE NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE 

OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF 
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S DIVISIONS 
SIGN UP AS INDIVIDUALS OR IN PAIRS. PAIRS MUST HAVEONE PLAYER OVER 90 

FEES DUE WITH ENTRY $4.50 FOR STUDENTS $7.00 FOR FACULTY AND STAFF 
REGISTER AT THE GOLF SHOP (ROCKNE) DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 25 









Business 
Thursday, September 19, 1991 page 9 
Lawsuit challenges Keating's salary and lavish lifestyle 
PHOENIX (AP) -The parent people who bought junk bonds 1988 for travel, entertainment of collapsed Lincoln Savings & -from the savings and loan and miscellaneous expenses, Loan gave Charles Keating Jr. a based in Irvine, Calif. excluding nearly $31 million "feudal financial playground" Keatings's lavish lifestyle and spent to buy and maintain three that included lavish parties and the collapse of Lincoln and corporate jets. globe-trotting travel, according Phoenix-based American Conti­Included was $111,385 spent to a lawsuit against Keating and nental in 1989 have come to for a Christmas party held at others. symbolize the nation's S&L cri­the Registry Resort In Scotts­
According to papers filed in sis. dale In 1986. federal court, American Conti­Keating has denied wrongdo­Among the party expenses: nental Corp. paid Keating, its ing. He contends Lincoln would $27,143 for entertainment in­chairman, millions in salary, have survived had power-hun­cluding the Peter Duchin provided him with a $5 million gry regulators not stymied his Orchestra of New York; $65,319 Florida home and picked up the efforts to save it. for banquet, room and bar tab for such lavish events as a Lincoln's bailout is expected charges; $3,452 for table 1986 Christmas party at which to cost taxpayers .more than $2 wreaths; $4,021 for sp.ecial nearly $2,000 was spent on billion. lighting; $2,449 for Christmas Silly String alone. Keating's attorney, Stephen trees; and $1,948 for Silly 
"This cavalier use of cash Neal, said Tuesday he hadn't String, or string In a can. created a feudal financial play­seen the court papers. They The court papers also said ground where the Keating par­were flled Monday in Phoenix in American Continental provided ticipants received exorbitant connection with a class-action Keating with an 11,539-square­salaries, use of unnecessary lawsuit brought by people who foot Florida home that cost corporate jets and mansions, bought bonds from American nearly $5 million to purchase, exotic trips, and attendance at Continental. renovate and furnish. A elaborate corporate parties," "Obviously it's a matter that I $60,000 Mercedes was bought according to the documents. think needs to be addressed in for use at the property. 
Keating is on trial in Los An­the confines in the litigation," Keating received $19.4 mil­geles on securities fraud Neal said. lion In salary, stock purchases charges stemming from Lin­According to the papers, and other compensation In the coln's collapse and also faces American Continental spent five years ending in 1988, the lawsuits on behalf of numerous $5.7 million from 1984 through papers said. 
Fed says plenty of problems continue to plague economy 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The "We are still going to have 8 bound in housing, which nor-unlikely to be able to begin pointing." national economy, rather than million Americans unemployed mally leads the country out of spending again anytime soon. "As yet, there Is little sign of a bouncing strongly out of the because the recovery will be so recession, is about to falter. "The recovery is in trouble," sizable rebound in consumer recession, is beset with a host of slow that it won't reduce the This view was bolstered by said David Jones, senior spending that will contribute to problems from sluggish con­jobless figures," said Mark the Fed survey, which found economist at Aubrey Lanston & a strengthening business recov­sumer spending to a virtual Zandi, senior economist at Re­that fewer than half of the Fed's Co., a government securities ery," the Fed concluded. standstill in commercial con­gional Financial Associates in 12 regions were reporting dealer in New York. "I think it is The Fed's review of business struction, the Federal Reserve West Chester, Pa. "For many further increases in housing going to falter largely because conditions, known as the "beige reported Wednesday. Americans, the recovery is go­sales and construction in the of an uncertain and cautious book," is compiled from reporlc; 
The Fed's latest survey of na­ing to feel almost as bad as the late summer after an initial re-consumer." from the 12 regional banks. The tional business conditions said recession." bound in the spring. document is prepared eight that the recovery "continues to In other bad economic news In a third report, the Ameri­If anything, the newest Fed times a year and serves as a be uneven across the country" Wednesday, the Commerce De­can Bankers Association said survey sounded more downbeat guide to policy makers when with a rebound In manufactur­partment reported that con­that the percentage of con­than an assessment released in they meet to set Interest rate Ing one of the few bright spots. struction of new homes and sumer loans at least 30 days early August, when the central policies. The next session of the 
Some private economists were apartments 'edged up only a past due rose to 2. 73 percent in bank was more optimistic about Federal Open Market more blunt, saying the Fed slight 0.6 percent in August the April-June quarter, the sec­the prospects both for the Committee will be Oct. 1. report depleted a moribund while the number of building ond highest level in more than a housing industry and consumer economy that could easily slip permits, considered a good sign decade. spending. The central bank last week back Into recession. of future activity, fell for the Analysts said this report In the new report, the Fed conducted another round of 
Even economists who are not first time since February, de­showed that debt-strapped found that most regions re­credit easing including pushing forecasting a so-called "double clining 4.6 percent. consumers faced with weak in­ported disappointing spending the discount rate, the interest It dip" recession are predicting To many economists, the come growth In a recession with back-to-school sales de­charges on bank loans, to 5 that the recovery will be one of housing report raised serious were having increasing trouble scribed variously as "weak, percent, its lowest level in 18 the weakest on record. questions over whether the re-paying off their bills and were slower than expected or disap-years. 
Magazine reports increase in programs that balance work and family 

NEW YORK (AP) -Despite the recession, many companies spent more in the past year on programs to help employees balance work and family, Working Mother magazine says. 
"The policies, programs and benefits designed to support working parents not only escaped the axe, they have lit­erally exploded," the magazine said in its annual report on the best employers for parents. 
The report is in the October issue, released Tuesday. 
Eighty-five companies made the 1991 list, up from 75 in 1990. They range from indus­trial giants such as Johnson & Johnson, Proctor & Gamble Co. and Eastman Kodak Co. to smaller companies such as Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream of Vermont and Neuville Industries, a North Carolina sock maker. 
In Its sixth annual survey, the magazine found that more than half the ranked companies run their own child-care centers. Twenty opened new child-care facilities last year or announced plans to do so. 
All 85 protect a woman's job for at least six weeks after childbirth, and more than two­

The magazine's researchers competition, advancement op­as job-protected maternity adopt a child. The improve­
WORKING MOTHER MAGAZINE SIXTH ANNUAL SURVEY 
85 

en 
·c:Q) 
Ctl 
a. 
E 
0 
(.) 
~ 
c::: 
~ 
1.() CX) 
a. 
0
.... 
0 

6wks care after after centers guarantee job 
after childbirth 
care of elderly parents. 
Susan Seliger, Working Mother's associate publisher­editor and founder of the list, said she was struck by the broad range of companies that have begun to see the competi­tive advantages of providing such benefits. 
"Given these difficult times, you would have expected to see real cutbacks, she said. "These are the latest Innovations and you'd think they'd be the first things to go. They haven't been." 
The recession did have an Im­pact. For example, MNC Finan­cial Corp., a troubled Maryland banking company that was ranked in 1990, dropped off the list. 
But some companies that were dropped In years past made it back. Most notable was Hewlett-Packard Co., the Silicon Valley computer maker. 
Hewlett-Packard, which was not ranked last year, Introduced several benefits this year, including parental leave time doubled to four months and generous aid to parents who 

thirds guarantee the job for at used the following criteria to portunities for women, child­leave, flexible work scheduling, ments came despite lower least 12 weeks. devise the list: pay versus the care support, and benefits such job-sharing and allowances for profits, Seliger said. 


-,---------,.---.,.------------­



Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, September 19, 1991 
P.O. Box Q, Edltor-ln.Chlef Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Buslneas Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez News Editor ...•.•.....•.•..••..•.• Monica Yant Advertising Manager •.•••.Julie Sheridan VI-point Editor...••...•••..•..•.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •••••••• Alissa Murphy Sports Editor .......•....... David Dieteman Production Managar ••.••••••.•.Jay Colucci Accent Editor .•.....••.....•.... .John O'Brien Systems Mana gar .••••••••••••••.Mark Sloan Photo Editor .••••.••...Andrew McCloskey OTS Director •••••...•.••...•.•••.Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ....•••..... Emily Willett Controller••••....•••••..••••..Thomas Thomas The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accerately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the tree expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged.  NATURAL LAW--and the ASCENT of MAN BIDENPLAGIARITllFCUS N.ETZENBA..UMABoRTtcusl CLARENCE T~OMAS I H-iJ'IIitiiJe~'>kills Cannibalistic; ' M:x!ern bla:~ _DnSer-y;f...ive; but Ga!&JQ ci rrurnickry Knmn -\D eAt own yrur•,!; Krvtm to ':.i•~r.r<. i>r hi.m?elr -·---· --· _ _J  

Debate surrounding Supreme Court nomination is unnecessary, 
"Clarence Thomas is the best only at his ability to bootlick for Ronald Reagan and George Bush.... lf you gave Clarence Thomas a little flour on his face, you'd think you had David Duke talking." This quote, from Carl Rowan, is all too typical of the degenerating debate surrounding the nomination of Clarence Thomas. 
The true issues at stake are unfortunately being obscured by the antics of liberals like Rowan and their conservative counterparts. 
The two questions which really need to be addressed are: First, is Clarence Thomas qualified to sit on the Supreme Court? Second, what is the proper role of the Senate in the confll"DI.ation process? 
'Is Clarence Thomas qualified to sit on the Supreme Court? To an extent, every person who has ever been nominated to the Supreme Court has been quali­fied. So many brilliant and ac­complished lawyers want to sit on the Court that Presidents have difficulty nominating someone who is not qualified. Clarence Thomas is no excep­tion; he graduated from Yale Law School, has written exten­sively on many constitutional topics and has served for a year and a half as a federal judge on 
LmERS TO THE EDITOR 

the prestigious D.C. Court of Appeals. 
On the other hand, as many Senators have rightly pointed out, an impressive resume is not enough. To sit on the Supreme Court, a justice must have what is sometimes re­ferred to as "judicial tempera­ment." He or she must have a special, almost intuitive under­standing of the Constitution, an ability to grasp the rights and principles it embodies and the capacity to apply these in mak­ing decisions. Judge Thomas has this quality. 
As the news media has re­peatedly detailed, Thomas, un­like any other nominee, was born and raised dirt poor in the Old South. He has servedJ.n state government and in all three branches of the federal government, also a rare feat for a Supreme Court Justice. 
He is, in the words of the Dean of the Yale Law School, "someone who does stand out, who holds his ... own views, with which I deeply disagree, but who has somewhere, some time, experienced life and has been willing to stand up against the pack." 
Ironically, one of the best proofs of Thomas' quality as a judge, his belief in natural law, 
Rick Acker The Federalist Paper 

has been used as an argument against confirming him. Critics such as Sen. Ted Kennedy, con­stitutional scholar Laurence Tribe, and NAACP President Benjamin Hooks have all used the same word to describe this belief: "dangerous." 
What is natural law? It is the set of rules laid down by God to govern human conduct, much as physical laws such as gravity govern the conduct of all creation. These laws are, contrary to the teachings of moral relativism, objectively provable and applicable to all people in all times and places. 
An excellent example of natural law theory is the opening phrase of the Declaration of Independence: "We hold these truths to be self evident..." As Thomas has pointed out, the whole idea of self evident truths is the heart of natural law. 
Thomas sees "higher law," as he calls natural law, not as a substitute for the Constitution, but as a necessary aid in inter­preting it. "Rather than being a justification for the worst type of judicial activism, higher law is the only alternative to the willfulness of both run-amok "dangerous" to those who, like Kennedy and Tribe, prefer their own opinions to those of the the Constitution's authors, but this is a point in favor of Thomas, not against him. 
majorities  and  run-amok  
judges."  
Clearly,  natural  law  is  

What is the proper role of the Senate in the confirmation pro­cess? The Constitution calls for the Senate to provide "Advice and Consent" to the President on the nomination of justices to the Supreme Court. It al~o provides that federal judges may not give an opinion on an issue unless a "Case" or "Controversy" is present. 
This requirement has been repeatedly held by the Supreme Court to prohibit federal judges from giving advisory opinions on issues they may face in a case. Thus, Thomas may not give his legal opinion on abortion or affll"DI.ative action to Sens. Howard Metzenbaum, Joe Biden or Ted Kennedy. The se­nators know this, of course, but ask him about these subjects anyway because it makes them look like champions of civil rights and makes Thomas look like an artful dodger. 
The proper constitutional role of the. Senate, then, is to investigate and critically review the qualifications and character of the nominee. It should do neither more nor less. In particular, it should not pelt the nominee with politically mo­tivated and unanswerable ques­tions while neglecting his or her ability to serve as Justice. This, unfortunately, is what some members of the Senate Judi­ciary Committee are currently trying to do. 
Joseph Story, a widely re­spected nineteenth century Supreme Court Justice, com­mented that the Senate has the right to turn a nominee down "from party motives, from a spirit of opposition, h but hope­fully "such occurrences will be rare." Let us hope we will not have to witness one of these "rare occurrences" in the next few weeks. 
For those interested in hearing more about these and other issues raised by the Thomas nomination, the Notre Dame Federalist Society is sponsoring a panel discussion at 2:00 this Friday in room 121 of the Law School. Though all of the panel members are law students, all members of the Notre Dame community are welcome. 
Rick Acker is a third year law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


Yearbook is not responsible for recent advertiseme~ts 
Dear Editor: 
In the past few days, several personal advertisements have been run in the Observer concerning supplements to the Dome. Responses to these ad­vertisements have been 

DOONESBURY 
FfJRG{3T IT/ 
IKIOAIA 
5TA:/(/}/)aa< I#HtNlq;[; 
QV/3.'"' 

directed to the Dome office and to its editorial staff. 
As co-editors-in-chief of the 1992 Dome, we wish to clarify that these personal advertisements have absolutely no affiliation with the 
7HtFAM!i,Y CH, Y/3AH? :ll'P(Y(T6PWP meN 1-aU IJCl1.iN'T TAKe C0+1!3 'tOlJ ~la?3, 8.1?. 5TAJ<Tl31? U/b'R/3 H151?E tu!THOUT 7DMetJ/All3. M£3¥ '-...... 
rr/ 
University's yearbook. Quite frankly, we have as little knowledge of them as does anyone. 
Therefore, please direct all of your inquiries regarding these ads to the personas 
AIA/0/,.~ IGOT 
6('Xl), I 1V/3 HAl? MY 
KICJ<BI) OVT.' 
(j()()/?.' 
aJ/f,t, YOU
5I-fARE; OFm'"' 
/?!S(])93
700.' ""';;,;::;~r"i 

responsible for their pub­would be supplementary to the lication. 1992 Dome. 
Again, we would like to state Amy Cashore that our publication is in no Chris Deglorglo way responsible for the Co-Ed itors-ln-Chief development or distribution of The Dome any yearbook materials which Sept. 17, 1991 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'tOUR PAIN 
reason knows nothing of.' 

tAl/THUS? 
Blaise Pascal 
Go ahead. submit to: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 

UM... A5lONG .47 I IXJN'THAV/3 
VOROPTIVU 
'The heart has its reasons which

OR BEAT 
001115. 
L,_____________________:_________:___________ ------­


Accent 
Thursday, September 19, 1991 page 11 

Andres Rodrigues worked with Hispanic children from low-income housing areas in Tucson, Arizona last summer. He was a part of the summer service project program organized by the Center for Social Concerns. 

N D students spend 
NO student Joe Burke repaired a water fountain in Philadelphia
summer helping the needy 
last summer to give the homeless a place to drink. 

By TIM ROGERS Accent Writer  ranging from Hawaii to New York. Sue Cunningham, the summer service projects coordinator, says  "Many of the people I met this summer had never been loved before," said Burke. "Everyone  She says the experience taught her that everyone, especially the homeless, need some sense of per­ 
Last summer in Philadelphia, Joe Burke was almost arrested.  87 alumni cluns across the country sponsored the students. The clubs  needs dignity and respect." From Philadelphia to Memphis,  sonal dignity.  
Burke was giving some sandwiches to his friends when a  give a $1,400 scholarship to the students who work in their cities.  Tennessee, students similar life lessons.  learned  Andres Rodrigues' service project took  summer place in  
pollee officer told him that he --------would have to stop.'Many of the The oficer explained IE 1 t to Burke that he was peop e me causing a disturbance this summer by attracting homeless had never people."He told me it was abeen loved public park and I'd before... have to clear these  "No other school in the country can claim that kind of support," said Cunningham. "We have the best alumni support in the nation." As part of the program, students are required to keep a journal, do directed readings, and write a small paper at the end of the summer. Besides the scholarship,  Junior economics and government major Suzanne Frossard did her tour of duty at the Missionaries of Charity with Mother Theresa's nuns. Frossard was a house mother in a night shelter for women and children. "If you had told me a year ago that I'd be spending the summer in the heat of Memphis, living with  Tucson, Arizona. He worked at a center that provided a day care atmosphere for children from low­income housing areas. In addition to being a camp counselor, Rodrigues taught English to the children that came from primarily Hispanic backgrounds. He found that the children were  
Eve~one homeless out of here," said Burke. "I told him nee s dignity the homeless had no and respect.' place else to go. I talked to that cop forever, but we just had two totally different perspectives. He even called for backup. Six cops showed up." Junior accounting major Joe Burke made friends with the homeless last summer when he spent eight weeks working for the Philadelphia Committee for Homeless as part of his summer service project. Under the guidance of the Center for Social Concerns, 120 Notre Dame students like Burke spent two months of the summers helping the needy in locales  students get one credit in theology for their efforts. But they get a lot more than that. They get a chance to learn about people and about themselves. By helping the handicapped, the homeless, or inner-city "at risk" kids, the students learn valuable life lessons. Burke learned his lessons on the street. As part of an outreach program, he walked the streets of Philadelphia, offering food and counseling to the homeless. "The first two weeks were really hard," Burke said. "I got spit on and called a white boy. One guy even called me a Republican. I used the food as a tool to gain their trust and eventually I established a pretty good rapport.  nuns,. and mopping floors, I never would have believed you," said Frossard. "There was incense burning, kneeling on the floor -the whole bit." Frossard says one event in particular opened her eyes. She was giving out sack lunches to homeless children and asked them to give the apples back if they did not eat them. "The sisters are into not wasting food," said Frossard. "They believe you shouldn't take more than you need. And this boy asked me, 'Suzanne, what do you do with these apples when we give them back? Do you give them to the poor?' He didn't even realize he was poor."  "a lot less innocent" than he expected, and was amazed at how much more they knew about the world than he did at their age. Rodrigues found that the summer service program was perfect for him because of his busy schedule during the school year. "I wanted something more than a one day Christmas in April," explained Rodrigues. For him, a summer service project was "community service when (he} had the time." There are probably 117 other stories like Burke's, Frossard's, and Rodrigues'. The stories tell of students who gave up part of their summers to help others and wound up helping themselves in the process.  ·.  

The Observer accepts dassKieda every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame olfice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class~leds is 3p.m. All classifleds 

Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per chara::ter per day, lndudlng all spaces. 

page 12 The Observer Thursday, September 19, 19~1 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  I HAVE PURDUE TIX  Need MSU GA tickets...  NEED 8 PITI TICKETS FOR  BALLROOM DANCE CLUB  
NOTICES  219-291-7153  CALL JIM X2341  Call Julie x2870  POOR RELATIVES. CALL KEVIN X1589  We will meet in THEODORE'S on  
House for Rent  NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA's  I Need NAVY 2 GA's II  Thursday, Sept. 19 from  
USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIII!  $150/Mo, Call Paul287-2159  CALL JOE X2341  Dave 256-5034  I Have 2 NAVY GA's and would  8:00-9:30 pm.  
25% off list price  8am-4pm.  like to trade for 2 PITI GA's  
1G-5:30 everyday  Need 2 stud tix to MICH. STUI Call  I Need MSU tics, GA or stud.  Chris x1998  BALLROOM DANCE CLUB  
Pandora's Books corner of ND  HOUSEMATE WANTED: Shr 2  Pete x1791.  Susan x4276  Quotes from the roadtrip you wish  
ave & Howard  BR Hse wilib, quiet, grad M Lg Kit,  Need one Pin GA. X2172 ask for  you'd all been on with Jen, Mer,  
wshridry, gar, AC, plenty storg.  i need 2 MICH ST. GA's, and 5  I have 1 Mich St GA left  Keri  Cheryl, Marge, Scott, Eddie, Mike,  
TYPING AVAILABLE  $250, shr utils A vi Oct 1 Jeff 288­ NAVY GA's. Cristin x3433  Best Offer  and Psycho  
287-4082  3878  I HAVE 2 PITI GA'S. WILL TRADE  SO-BER!!  
LUSTED AFTER: 2 or 3  BartX1699  FOR 2 MICH. ST. GA'S. LEAVE  Did Scott shower? I  
Fund raising I 50% profit for your  Furnished apts. near N.Q.  Tennessee studs. Call George  MESSAGE. 1-80()-345-6725, EXT.  How's your a__ hole?  
organization; clubs, charities, ect.  cozy 1 bedrm $255  at x1672.  PITI TIX PITI TIX PITT TIX  76063.  Unsupervised kegI  
Five different programs available.  clean 2 bedrm $340,  Alum needs 2 GA's for Pin. Will pay  Sir, GO BLOW I NO fight song, we're  
Call Nancy at 232-8242  dept. ref. 1-800-582-9320.  NEED 3-5 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S.  $$$. Call at work  Buy my ticket book. Call with  going to get mauled I  
CALL JOHN 312-951-4167 DAYS,  (312) 701-6204 or at home  offer by Thus. 10 p.m. x4673.  Monique...Rickyl  
NOTRE DAME VIDEO  NOTRE DAME AVE.2  OR 312-929-9411 EVENINGS.  (708) 616-7818 anytime.  Volume II car dancing, !really hate  
BEDROOM.FURNISHED.272-6306  PITI TIX PITI TIX PITT TIX  2 State GA's for sale.  this tape.  
•NEW MOVIES•  WANTED: 3 PITT GA's for  Jeff X4073  Are those Iighty whities on their  
-Awakenings  FOR SALE  ,  family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! HELP ME I Dan x2349  NOTRE DAME TICKETS WANTED  I HAVE Four Michigan St. GA's  heads? Where's the beer? At the  
-Dances With Wolves  271-1371  I NEED Two USC or Pitt GA's  Budgeteer. Where are the guys?  
-Edward Scissorhands  CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill  Need to sell 4 Michigan State  Will TRADE or SELL or BUY  Getting a cooler. Why is it taking so  
-New Jack City  T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T­ GA's--call Kathryn-x2808  I NEED GA'S TO EVERY HOME  Call x1694  long? You think they thought we  
-HomeAione  Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone  GAMEl CALL MIKE 1655  meant wine coolers?NOTI  
Game Day Promotions 291-6394.  Need to sell2 Mich. State  Have GA, MSU, Call 288-0730  OATZELS  
·sPECIAl MEMBERSHIP RATES•  GA's-calllaurie--x2867  NEED M.ST. TIX  EVENINGS.  MUNCHIE MART  
-Basement of the Stud. Center  LAPTOP COMPUTER  NEED PITT TIX  
4:00-7:00p.m.  Zenith 181, dual 3.5 drives  Need 6 GAs for Michigan State.  213-47G-4419  For Sale:  cont'd below  
7DAYSA WEEK  IBM P.C. compatible  Let's make a deal. Call Mike at 283­ Lv. Mssg.  All Stud Tix  
DOS, in carton, rarely used.  1305  28g 7506 (after 6)  The Budgetellooks expensive, they  
Call 272-3255  Need Mich St. and USC GAs  have CHALET parking.  
LOST/FOUND  Racing bike in excellent condition.  Air Force GA's, X1502  call Phil at x2096  I NEED TWO PITT GA's Will trade two Purdue GA's  Check channel 6, Hey I What about Bob?  

 Many accesories. Call #3718.  Need stud & GAs for most home  TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS  or pay cash  We're going on a Picnic..  
FOUND: Bead bracelet in NOH.  games. x4282  RANDY 800-323-7687  CALL MIKE @ x3263  I'm picking out a thermos for you ..  
Call x4673  '84 HONDA PRELUDE, AUTO,  We're in a technology trap  
SUNROOF, 63,000 MI. 272-5640.  NEEDED: 2 GA's FOR EITHER  NO '82/SMC '83 grads from PA  NEEDED! Pitt GAs Navy stud. If  Quarters on the toilet top? It looks  
FOUND: One man's watch  PITT, USC or NAVY.  to Calif. returning for reunion.  you can help call Scott 2373.  like a giant velamint, did you ever  
on lawn in front of Keenan­ 2 WOMEN'S & 2 MEN'S 1G­ CALL JOHN at x1590. Thanks!  We need GA's for USCI Please  see how a toilet works?  
Stanford. Please call x2722  SPEED SCHWINN FULL SIZE  help us Ill Call my little sister,  I NEED TENN TIX BADLY I  Density,Grams per cm3, 20 cubits!  
todaim.  BIKES. $100 EA.  -USC TROJANS­ AMY, at X2875. THANKSI  CALL MIKE AT 1103.  Did Marge sleep with an ice pack?  
272-6139.  - need  SIX  g.a.'s  No she slept with psycho!  
LOST:  SOCCER BALL LEFT AT  CALL R 0 B at x1845  Need 2 Navy GA's And 2 Tenn. GA's  NEEDED: 2 TENNGA's for Alum.  Just tell them the top on the car  
STEPAN FIELDS. PLEASE  MUSICAL DRINKING G(ASSES,  Make my life call Dave #2201  Please call Susan: 284-4435  doesn't go up  
RETURN.  PLAYS NO VICTORY MARCH.  I need 2-3 Michigan St. GA's  Wait, 14 people have to shower?  
Call Dan @271-9239  $10. ORDER YOURS NOW.  call Kathleen @ X4082.  I NEED 5 NAVY G.A.S BADLY  have2 Tenn  MUCK FICHIGANI  
BETTY 239-7458 OR 289-1321  PLEASE HELP MEl x4312John  need 2 USC & 2 Pitt  love, Jen and Mer  
LOST: BROWN LEATHER  Need 6 USC GA's and 3 Tennessee  trade or buy  
WALLET ON 919 (MON.)  Round Trip ticket  Ga's.  I need 2 MSU GA's.  284-4050  Happy 19th Birthday Kelly, from all  
IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT EO  to ATLANTA  Call#3718  Call283-2067.  the men you've loved before:  
OR STEVE AT X3402 REWARD!!  good until Christmas  Need 3 MSU GA tickets. Call  AW, HF, FM, RL, BM, CR. MM. JB,  
Have 2 USC GA's. Will trade  2 USC GA's Needed  Christa 1346.  PC, MM, MA, KS, MM, TI, OJ  
found claddagh at the drovers  Walk to NO from beautiful  for 4 Pin GA's. Call Colleen, x2525.  Call Patrick @ 271-1573  We all love you too...  
concert. x2903  contemporary. 11 years NEW. 3  FOR SALE, 2 TIXS ALL HOME  EL, JW, AS, FG, MC, FM, BS, DT,  
BR, 2 1/2 bath, 2300 sq. ft. Call  I NEED 2 USC GAs and will pay.  HELPII NEED 2 PITI GA'S FOR  GAMES 273-1802  LA  
LOST: Student 1.0. card case  Jeanine Bizzaro 282-1762 or  Call DAVE at X1 859  PARENTS CALL TIM X4063  Have a great day.  
w/ temporary 1.0.,  Cressy & Everett BH & G. 233­ NEED 2 USC TIX I HAVE $$$  Remember temperance  
driver's license, and  6141.  Please help, I need Tenn GA's, call  My dad's rich.  JULIE X4842  
other cards belonging  Kevin@# 1407.  Sell me an MSU GA.  SUBWAY PARTY SUBS  
to Francis Kelly. PLEASE return to 307 Carroll!  United Air plane coupon value $106;  WILL TRADE 2 GA's ANY HOME  Mickey, x1846  PERSONAL  Order now for MSU tailgate parties! Great food for $2/person.  
Sale: $60  GAME FOR 2 USC GA's 2773097  2 locations near ND:  
FOUND: RELIGIOUS MEDAL.  271-8401  HELP!  I am the lizard King and I can do  SA 23 & Ironwood: 277-7744  
CALL 289-5311 ANTHONY  Need 1 MICH ST GA  -I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN  anything.  52577 US 31 N: 277-1024  
ROOM AT SIGNATURE INN FOR  Jackie 277-3610  STATE. NO PRICE TOO HIGH  
LOST:Silver claddagh ring with  MICHIGAN STATE WEEKEND  CALL 3353 ASK FOR SCOTI  hey nil  Top 10 reasons to wish Greg  
green marble heart. left in  CALL 277-6703  Need just one MSU GA-will pay  "BOOM BOOM" Bernstein a happy  
Theodore's bathroom during  $$$111 Call Deb x4969  $$$$  20th BD:  
Drovers concert around 9:00.  Guitar Lessons  Need GA's to all home games.  1O)He loves Peanut Budda  
Extreme sentimental value. Please  from NO Teacher  Help! I need 4 Michigan State  I NEED MICH. ST. GA'S  have extra Purdue tix.  9)Your breaking his heart  
call x4231 if found. Ask for Erin.  Call Stephen Miller 255-9343  G.A.'s. Please call Andrew@ 233­ CALL MIKE @ X1 862  Call Tom x1563  8)He THINKS he's the best hearts  
9588.  player  
LOST Gold colored class ring  TICKETS  Needed: 1 GA for Michigan State.  i need 2 GA's for USC and PITI. Greg X1795.  Monica Eigelberger is a ho.  ?)Nothing's up with him ... what's up with you?  
between Fitzpatrick and  Call Sheila 283-4842.  Michigan State ­2 rooms at  6)He had a loft rocker for a roomie  
Flanner  I NEED GA OR STD TIXS ALL  i need 2 MICH. ST. GA's. Jeff  Marriott, Sept. 20 & 21. 217-546­ 5)He has a dog for a roomie  
Please call Tom x1 172  HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306  x1791.  0981.  4)He'll get a single next year and be  
Please. I would like tickets to Mich.  a lector a MASS  
LOST: RED, WHITE AND BLUE  NEED 2GA OR 1STD/1GA FOR  St. and USC. lf·you can help call  I need 1-3 Mich St GA's, have  $50 FREE merchandise; room  3)He'll fail his 1st mechanics test blc  
BIKE HELMET IN EITHER  _ USC,TENN.CALL KEN-3598.  Ed 1384  $$, Amy x2558  decor, Xmas gifts, etc. Host a  he's due  
CUSHING OR O'SHAG ON 9/11  home/dorm or catalog party with  2)He's a Boston aristocrat slopping  
OR 9/12.  PLEASE CALL!Ill  NAME YOUR PRICE! WEALTHY  Decor and More. Call Nancy at  food atSDH  
DAVID--271-8577  NEED MSUTIX  RELATIVE WILL PAY $$$ FOR 2  Needed: 2 tickets for USC and 4  232-8242.  1 )He's the current top seed in the  
Angie x2172  MSU GA TICKETSIll CALL SHANA,  for Tenn. Student or GAs. Call Sue  "lnhal your lunch" tournie  
WANTED  Help Ill  234-1752111  at 271 -0053.  If you taped PRIME TIME last Thursday evening, please call  Happy B-Day GWEGIII  
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSU GAME.  Shirley at 239-5303 before 4 pm or  
FREE TRAVEL, CASH, AND  My parents are coming out to  CALL 283-1448  Need 2 MICH ST. GA's to shame  272-3753 after 5.  JOE MCQUADE'S 19th Birthday  
EXCELLENT BUSINESS  celebrate my 21st birthday on  Mich St alums (Mom and Dad)  IS TODAY! I  
EXPERIENCE II Openings available for individuals or student organizations to promote  Saturday the 21st. They need 2 MSU GA's. Otherwise it won't be a golden birthday.  I NEED NAVY GAs OR STUDS. WILL TRADE PURDUE GAs + $. HEATHER x3750.  Kent 277-1112 Need 2 student tix or GA's for  Dear Mojo Risin', Happy Belated 21stllllll  Here are the top 10 reasons to call him and wish him a happy day...  
the country's most successful SPRING BREAK tours. Call Inter­Campus Programs  Call Julie at x1342  I REALLY NEED 2 GA'S FOR TENN GAME II X 1684  Michigan State and 2 GA's and 1 student for Pin. Call284-3814 and leave your name, number and the  You have one free massage COMING your way-<>r should we say OUR way????  10. He's a really cool guy 9. She jerked him off 8. He's from New York  
1-80()-327-6013.  NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR  price.  7. He likes Jack Daniels  
CLEAN-UP PERSON APPLY AT BRIDGETS 287-6966 EVES.  NAVY GAME. CALL MARK COLl,.ECT AT 1-407-886-5161. I NEED 8 PITT & 4 TENN. TIXII  I NEED 4 TENNESSEE GA.'S $$$ SEAN H. @289-6439. Need 2 USC GA's!lll  NEEDED: OneGA for NAVY. Call : Lisa at x4832  We love you, Colette (90%) and Aimee(10%)  6. He doesn't mind vacumning 5. He spits grapes well 4. He can do that thing with the olive in HOT SHOTS  
5.00 PER HOUR  CALL TIM 283-1706 NO OFFER WILL BE REFUSE Dill  Willing to pay$$$$$ call Beth 288-9421  NEED 4 TENNGA'S. 288-9621 HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S, STUDENT  Are you going to PURDUE? I need a ride. Beth x4341  3. His answering machine message is a musical treat  
WANTED: Off-campus roommate.  TIX, AND$$$$$ TO TRADE.  2. He's hard  
Furnished. Call Jon at 271-1562.  Selling stud-tickets all games. luis 273-1528  PLEASE HELPII My two (BIG) brothers are coming  I have four Purdue tickets!  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate,  1. He has a great view of the dome from his room.  
for the USC game, they will be  summer, and internship programs in  
Wanted: FACULTY ADVISOR for presently forming UNO WATERSKI CLUB  NEED 2 STUD AND 3 GA'S FOR MSUI KATE 4998.  VERY MAD if I don't get them tix. NEED 2 USC GA'S-PLEASEII  Best offer takes them I call Chris @ X2123  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-80()-878-3696.  So call Joseph Anthony Hoover McQuade at x2681.  
call Chris @X2123  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  Call Colleen at X4900.  
WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655.  NEED 2-5 MSU GA's.  FEMALE MUSICIANS WANTED TO  LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes  
NEED RIDE TO DUBUQUE, lA OCT 4-6-WILL HELP WITH GAS X2819 FOR RENT  WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD JESUirS DREAM COME TRUE? NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs USC ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789­0654.  Ssaale: 2 stud ticket books 5 games left! I @287-2528 Needed: Mich. St. + USC GA's Joe#1245  PLEASE CALL287-3587. Need tickets to Michigan State. Call Ann #4011 Need several Michigan State GA.'s; call x2789  FORM AN All-GIRLS BAND. CALL JONI X3793 OR LAURA X3486 -N.D. FOOTBALL FANs­LISTEN TO: "BUD SWIRSKI'S IRISH SUPERFANS"  every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am. Eastern time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665.  
VCR, TV Rentals: Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters  I NEED MICH ST TIX IN THE  NEED: NO ALUM NEEDS TICKETS  Have MSU Stud for Sal&­ Chris  ON OLDIES 1490 A.M., 11 :00 TO 12:00, SATURDAY  NEED,NEED,NEED,NEED 2NAVYGA'S  
only $99.95. 13" color TV, two semesters only  WORST WAY. WILL GIVE YOU A RIDE IN THE YEN-MOBILE AS  TO ANY OR ALL NO HOME GAMES.  x1252  BEFORE THE GAME IIIIII 'DA IRISHIIllll  CALL KRIS@ x3474111111111111111111111  
$69.95.  ADDED BONUS  CALL JOE AT #271-1430.  Selling std tix book  NEED : ride to Purdue or W. La!.  
VCR, two semesters, $99.95. For fast free delivery, call COLLEGIATE RENTALS  CHRIS X3414 or 3410 NEED 2·3 MSU GAs  PLEASE HELPII NEED 2 PITT  232-1094 after 6 PM Need 3 STATE GAs or STUDS  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00,  FriJSat. Sept. 20121 will help pay for gas call 4943 Karen  
272-5959.  STEVE 11083  GA's. X-1750 Kyle  BADLYx3673  289-1993. Office near campus.  see CLASS/page 5  

Thursday, September 19, 1991 
The Observer 
page 13 

SCOREBOARD 
BASEBALL STANDINGS  PENNANT RACES  
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
Eael Dlvlelon  Eaal Dlvlelon  
Toronto Boston Detroit Milwaukee New Vorl< Baltimore Cleveland  w 81 79 75 69 62 81 49  L 85 87 70 75 83 85 95  Pet .555 .541 .517 .479 .428 .418 .340  (E 2 5112 11 18 112 20 31  LIO z-5-5 z-7-3 3·7 4·6 2·8 Z·s-4 5·5  Streak Lost 3 Won 2 Lost 3 los1 1 Won 1 Lost 2 Won 2  Home 42·33 40·32 44·26 38-34 35-40 30·45 25·46  Away 39-32 39·35 31·44 31-41 27-43 31-40 24·49  Remaining Games TORONTO (16)-Home (6): Sept. 27·29, Minnesota; Sept. 3Q.Ocl, 1·2, CaJHornla. Away (10): Sept. 18, Seanle; Sept. 20·22, Oakland; Sept. 23-25, CaiHomla; Oct. 4·6, Minnesota. BOSTON (16)-Home (9): Sept. 20-22, New Vorl<; Oct. 1·3, Detroh; Oct. 4·6, Milwaukee. Away (1): Sept. 23-25, Baltimore: Sept. 27·30, Milwaukee. NATIONAL LEAGUE Weal Dlvlalon Remaining Games '  TRANSACTIONS BASEBALL American laague BOSTON RED SOX-Purchased the contracts ol Erfc Wedge, catcher, and Wayne Housle,  
w..t Dlvllllon  LOS ANGELES (16)-Home (11): Sept. 18·19, Houston; Sept. 20·22, Atlanta; Sept. 27·29, San  outfielder, from Pawtucket olthe International  
Mlnnaaota Chicago TIIXao Oakland Sean Ia Kansas City California  w 87 81 78 76 74 74 72  L 80 86 87 70 70 71 72  Pet .592 .551 .531 .521 .514 510 .500  (E 8 9 10 112 11 112 12 13 1/2  LIO z-4-8 6-4 8·4 Z·4·6 6-4 z-5-5 Z·8-4  Streak lost 2 Won 3 Lost 1 Lost 2 Won 4 Won 2 Won 1  Home 48-27 42-29 41-30 41-30 41-29 35-39 36-39  Away 41-33 39-37 35-37 35-40 33·41 39·32 36-33  Francisco; Sept. 30-0ct. 1·2, San Diego. Away (5): Sept. 24-25, San Diego; Oct. 4-8, San Francisco. ATLANTA (17)-Home (6): Sept. 24·26, Cincinnati; Oct. 4-6, Houston. Away (1 1): Sept. 18-19, San Diego; Sept. 20·22, Los Angeles; Sept. 27·29, Houston; Sept. 30-0ct. 1·2, Cincinnati. BASEBALL LEADERS  League. Moved Tim Naehrlng, shonstop, and lAke Miller, p•cher, from the 21· to the flO.day disabled list. CALFORNIA ANGELS-Recalled ALben Amaro, outfielder, lrom Edmonton of the Pacific Coast League. MILWAUKEE BREWERs-called up Tim Mcintosh, lnflelder-calcher; Jim Olander, outfielder;  
NATIONAL LEAGUE bet Dlvlelon w L Pet Pltlsburgh 88 58 .803 St. Louts 76 89 .524 Chicago 71 75 . 486 New Vorl< 70 78 .479 Philadelphia 69 n .473 Montreal 64 81 .441 w..t Dlvllllon w L Pet Los Angelaa 83 83 .568 Atlanta 82 63 .586 San Diego 74 72 .507 Cincinnati 70 75 .463 San F ranclaco 67 78 .462 Houston 59 86 .407 z-denotaa llr~t game was a win.  (E 11 1/2 17 18 19 23 1/2 (E 1/2 9 121/2 15 1/2 23 112  LIO z-7·3 z-5·5 3·7 5·5 4-6 l·B-4 LIO z-7·3 Z·7·3 z-6-4 4-6 z-5-5 2·8  Streak Won 3 Lost 2 Won 1 Lost 1 Won 2 Lost 2 Streak Won 2 Lost 2 Lost 1 Lost 2 Won 3 Won 1  Home 44·27 45-29 42-33 35-38 42·34 34·35 Home 46·24 45-30 35-36 38·37 38·35 34-38  Away 44·31 31-40 29·42 35-38 27-43 30-46 Away 37·39 37-33 39-36 32·38 29-43 25-48  AMERICAN LEAGUE BAITING--Franco, Texas, .340; Boggs, Boston, .332; Griffey Jr, Seanle, .326; Palmelro, Texas, .326; CRipken, Bahlmore, .326; Molhor. Milwaukee, .326; Thomas, Chicago, .325. RUNs-Molltor, Milwaukee, 115; Canseco, Oakland, 105; Palmelro, Texas, 102; Sierra. Texas, 102; Whhe, Toronto, 102; Franco, Texas, 98; Thomas, Chicago, 95. RBI-Fielder, Detroit, 123; Canseco, Oakland, 111; Thomas. Chicago, 103; Sierra. Texas, 103; Caner, Toronto, 103; CRipken, Banlmore, 99; JuGonzalez, Texas, 95. HITs-Molhor, Milwaukee, 191; CRipken, Bahlmore, 189; Palmelro, Texas, 185; Sierra, Texas, 163; Pucken, Mlnn980ta, t81; Franco, Texas, 179; Sax, New Vorl<, 172. DOUBLES--Palmelro, Texas, 44; CRipken, Battlmore, 42; GriHey Jr, Seanle, 41; Caner, Toronto, 41; Sierra, Texas, 40; Reed, Boston, 39;  NATIONAL LEAGUE BAITING-Morns, Clndnnatl, .325; TGwynn, San Diego, .317; Pendleton, Atlanta. .312; Jose, St. Louis, .310; McGee, San Francisco, .309; Bonilla. Pltlsburgh, .307; WCiark, San Frandsco, .301. RUNs-sutler, Los Angeles, 103; Johnson, New Vorl<, 101; Sandberg, Chicago, 95; Bonilla, Pltlsburgh, 93; Gant, A~anta. 89; JBell, Pittsburgh, 86; Pendleton. Atlanta. 87. R~nson, New York, 108; WCiarl<, San Frandsco, 105; Bonds, Pltlsburgh, 102; Dewson, Chicago, 99; Ganl, Atlanta. 94; McGriff, San Diego, 93; Bonilla. Pittsburgh, 92. ltls-TGwynn, San Diego, 168; Butler, Loe Angelea, 166; Bonilla. Pltaburgh, 183; Pendleton, Atlan1a. 182; Jose, St. Louis, 159; Sandberg, Chicago, 158; Grace, Chicago, 157. DOUBLEs-8onllla. Pntaburgh, 41; Joee, St. Louis, 39; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 35; Sabo, Cincinnati,  and Cal Eldred and Chris George, phcherl, from Denver of the American Aaaociallon. BASKETBALL N•tlon•l Ba•blball A..ocl•tlon CHARLOTTE HORNETs-signed John Crony, guard . FOOTBALL Natlon•l Football L..gue CINCINNATI BENGALs-Walved Mike Brennan, oHenslve lineman. MIAMI DOLPHINs---Re-signed Paul Lankford, corn91back, and Donnie Gardner, defensive end. Placed Kerry Glenn. com91back; Shewn Lee. nooe tackle, and Fred Banks, wide receiver, on Injured reserve. C•n•dlan Foolbell Laegue BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONs-51gned Cal Duncan, oHenslve lineman.  
AMERICAN LEAGUE Wednaedey'e Gamee Tu..day'e Gamee Lata Game Not Included Mllwaul<ae 2, New Vorl< 0 Kanaaa Chy 10, Mlnneeota 4 Cleveland 3, Detroit 1 Boston 7, Bal11more 5 Boston 4, Banlmora 3 New York 2, Mllwaukae 1, 10 Innings Chicago 1, Oakland o Cleveland 3, Detroit 2 Kanaas Chy 4, IAinnaaota 2 Chicago 6, Oakland 0 Calllomla 7, Texas 2 CaiHornla at Texas, ppd., rain Toronto at Seanle, (n)Seanla 5, Toronto 4, 11 Innings Thuredoy'e Game• California (Finley 17·8 and J.Abbon 16·9) at Texas (Ryan 10-8 and Brown 9-10), 2, 6:05p.m. Kana as Chy (Apptar 11·9) at Seante (Krueger 10·7), 10:05 p.m. NATIONAL LEAGUE Wedneeday'e Game•Tu..day'e Gamee Late Gamaa Not IncludedMontreal 5, New York 4, 1st game Chicago 4, New Vorl< 1New Vorl< 3, Montreal 2, 2nd game Philadelphia 1, Montreal 0 Philadelphia 4, St. Loula 2 Pltlsburgh 6, St. Louis 5 Plnaburgh 9, Chicago 2 Atlanta at San Diego, (n)Houston 3, San Diego 0 Cincinnati at San Francisco, (n)San Francisco 3, Atlanta 2 Houston at Los Angeles, (n) los Angeles 5, Cincinnati 3 Cincinnati (Myer~ 8-12) at San Francisco (Heredia 0-1), 3:35p.m. Houston (Ponugaii0-8) at Los Angelaa (Gross 9-10), 4:o5p.m. 1Aon1real (Bamee 4-8) at Philadelphia (Ashby 0·4), 7:35p.m. St. Louis (Olivares 9-5) at Plnaburgh (Smiley 18-8), 7:35p.m. Chicago (Boakla 4-8) at New Vorl< (Cone 12·13), 7:40p.m. Atlanta (Smoftz 12-13) at San Diego (Benaa 13·10), 10:05 p.m.  Boggs, Beeton, 39. TRIPLEs-RAiomar, Toronto, 11; LJohnson, Chicago, 11; Molitor, Milwaukee, 11; McRae, Kansas Ctty, 9; White, Toronto, 9; Gladden, Mlnnaaota. 9; Dev8feaux, Banlmore, B; Mack, Minnesota. 8; Polonla. CaiHornla, 8. HOME RUNs-Fielder, Detroh, 42; Canseco, Oakland, 41; Carter, Toronto, 33; Thomas, Chicago, 30; CRipken, Baltimore, 30; Tanabull, Kansas City, 28; CD avis, Minnesota, 28. STOLEN BASEs-RHenderson, Oakland, 50; Raln88, Chicago, 48; RAlomar, Toronto, 47; Polonla, Calffornla, 43; Cuyler, Detroh, 35; Whtte, Toronto, 32; Franco, Texas, 28; Sax, New Vorl<, 28. PITCHING (t4 Declslons)-Erlckson, Minnesota, 18·7, .720, 3.34; Heaketh, Boston, 10-4, .714, 3.33; Langston, Calffornla, 17·7, .708, 3.00; JoGuzman, Texas, 12·5, .706, 2.86; Gullickson, Detroit, 18·8, .692, 4.t5; Finley, Calffornla, 17·8, .680, 3.60; Clemens, Boston, t6·8, .667, 2.52. STRIKEOUTs-clemens, Boston, 210; RJohnson, Seattle, 197; McDowell, Chicago, 179; Ryan, Texas, 172; Langslon, California, 158; Candlonl, Toronto, 158; Finley, Calffornla. 155. SAVEs-Eckersley, Oakland, 40; Reardon, Boston, 40; Harvey, California, 39; Aguilera, Minnesota, 39; Henke, Toronto, 32; Thigpen, Chicago, 30; Montgomery, Kansas City, 29.  32; Zelle, St. Loula, 31; Morrla, Clnclmatl, 31; Gant. Atlan1a. 31; JBel. Pittsburgh, 31; McReynolds, New York,31. TfiiPLEs-Lankford, St. Loula, 14; TGwynn, San Diego, 11; Finley. Houston, 10; LGonzalez, Houston, 8; Grissom, Montreal, 8; Candaele, Houston, 7; Van Slyke, Pittsburgh, 7. HOME RUNS-Johneon, New Vorl<, 35; MaWfiHama, San Francisco. 30; Gant, Atlanta, 29; Dawson, Chicago, 28; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 27; McGrtll, San Diego, 27; KvMhchell, San Frandsco, 27. STOLEN BASEs-Nixon, Atlanta. 72; Grissom, Montreal, 69; DeShields, Montreal, 52; Bonds, Pltlsburgh, 40; Lankford, St. Louis, 37; Coleman, New York, 37; Butler, Loe Angelaa, 37. PITCIING (14 Declslons)-Rijo, Cincinnati, 14· 4, .778, 2.39; Carpenter, St. Louis, 10-4, .714, 4.23; Downs, San Franclsco,I0-4, .714, 4.17;Smlley, Pltlsburgh, 18·8. .692, 3.39; Avery, Atlanta. 16·8, .667, 3.48; MIWIIIIanns. Philadelphia, 10-5, .667, 2.t9; Hurst, San Diego, t5-8, .652, 3.29. STRIKEOUTs-cone, New Vorl<, 198; GMaddux, Chicago, In; Glavlne, Atlanta. 171: Harnisch, Houston, 158; Gooden, New Vorl<, 150; Benes, San Diego, 148; Greene, Philadelphia, 148. SAVEs-LeSmlth, St. Louis, 41; Dbble, Cincinnati, 29; MIWIIIIama, Philadelphia, 28; ~,~~. N~ Yn~'" 2e; ~:Wheltl, San Frandsco, 23;  HOCKEY N•tlonal Hockey la•gue MONTREAL CANADIENs-Traded Andrew Cassels, cent8f, to the Hanford Whaler~ lor a 1992 second-round draft pick. NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Returned Chris Taylor, center, to london of the Ontario Hockey League. lntern•tlonal Hockey La•gue SAN DIEGO GULLs-signed Sergei Slarkov, defenseman. SOCCER Major Soccer laague DALLAS SIDEKICKs-signed Terry Woodbury, forward, and Troy Snyder and Mike Powen1, defender~, to one-year contracts. SAN DIEGO SOCKERs-5igned Ben Collins, defender. Named George Katakalldls youth marl<etlng coordinator. COLLEGE COLORADO STATE-Named Corey Johnson athletic director. LOYOLA MARYMOUNT -Named Jody Robinson baseball coach.  - 


The College of Business Administration In Celebration of The University's Sesquientennial and the 70th Anniversary of the College 
1842-1992 University of Notre Dome 

Invites You to Attend 


A Convocation of Our Graduates 
Seventy Years of Business Education at Notre Dame 1921 -1991 
Thursday, September 19, 1991, Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art, University of Notre Dame 
1:30 p.m.-3:45p.m.: Convocation ofGraduates 
Moderator: 
Dr. John R. Malone Professor Emeritus of Marketing Mr. Edmond R. Haggar Mr. James L. Hesburgh 
Honorary Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Haggar Apparel Company J.L. Hesburgh International, Inc. 
Dr. Joseph A. Pichler Mr. William Lehr, Jr. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Senior Vice President and Secretary, The Kroger Company Hershey Foods Corporation. 
Mr. James M. Corgel Director of Process Industries, IBM Corporation 
4:00p.m.-5:00p.m.: 
"The 90's: Main Street Emerges-Wall Street Recedes" 
Moderator:
Mr. Philip J. Purcell, III 

Dr. Frank Reilly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bernard J. Hank Professor of Business Dean Witter Financial Services Group Inc. Administration 

A Business Advisory Council Colloquium on "The Challenge of Education" 
Friday, September 20, 1991, Center for Continuing Education, Main Auditorium, University of Notre Dame 
8:30a.m.-9:40a.m.: The Role ofBusiness Schools Dean Tom Keller, Duke University, Fuqua School ofBusiness Dean Jack Keane, University ofNotre Dame, College of Business Administration 
10:00 a.m. -11:45 a.m.: The Role ofthe Private Sector 
A panel ofprominent business leaders, presidents, and 
ChiefExecutive Officers. 
1:30 p.m.-2:45p.m.: The Role ofthe Public Sector 
Senator Bill Bradley (D., NJ) "America's Challenge in the Post-Communist World." 

page 14 The Observer Thursday, September 19, 1991 

Solomon packs his bags again 
FOXBORO, Mass. (AP) ­Linebacker Jesse Solomon was traded for the second time in three days on Wednesday, this time moving from the New England Patriots to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. 
The Patriots will get Tampa's fifth-round pick in the 1992 draft for the man they acquired from the Dallas Cowboys on Monday for a 1992 sixth-round pick. 
There was speculation after that trade that New England was actually working as a go­between in a deal to send Solomon, who lives in Madison, Fla., to Tampa Bay. 
The Buccaneers had shown the most interest in Solomon but could not cut a deal with the Cowboys because of a clause included by the Minnesota Vikings in the Herschel Walker deal that sent Solomon to Dallas in October 1989. 
That clause prevented the 


Gwynn goes under scope to repair cartilage damage 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -San Diego Padres right fielder Tony Gwynn, who was chasing his fifth National League batting title, underwent arthroscopic surgery on his left knee Wednesday and likely will be lost for the rest of the season, team Dr. Jan Fronek said. 
Gwynn, who led the NL in hitting for most of the season, had been bothered by the knee since sliding into second base at 

-
Leahy 
continued from page 20 
tory. The seniors he will proba­bly look to first will be Dustin Klinger and Wally Crapps. This backfield duo should lead Cavanaugh's offense as they search for a passing game to compliment their running at­tack. 
There are no true defensive standouts on the Cavanaugh squad, but according to Novak 
Before you take another bite, think about the fact that a diet high in cholesterol and fat can load your blood with cholesterol, which raises your chance of heart attack. In fact, more Anrricans may die by the fork Wl.an by any other weapon. 

Cowboys from trading any of the five players they received from Minnesota to an NFC Central team. 
When Dallas sent Solomon to New England, however, they denied any knowledge of a second deal. 
Earlier, the Cowboys had tried to send Solomon straight to Tampa Bay, but Minnesota blocked the trade. The deal fell apart when Dallas and Minnesota couldn't agree on compensation for the Vikings to allow the deal to go through. 
After learning of the trade to send Solomon to Tampa Bay, Vikings president Roger Headrick said, "We have ad­vised the commissioner's office as to the way it was handled. I don't want to accuse anybody because we don't have all of the facts. 
"We're not trying to deprive Jesse Solomon of an opportu­nity to make a living." 
Solomon was considered the key player acquired by the Cowboys in the Walker deal But contract disputes prevented' the Cowboys from ever seeing his big-play ability. 
Solomon played as a backup in the final 11 games of the 1989 season for the Cowboys, then missed the first six games of the 1990 season because of a contract holdout. 
The Cowboys promoted Solomon to the starting lineup last June, but he walked out Aug. 21 because he considered the contract improvement he had been promised in the offseason too low. Dallas offered to improve his base salary this season to $450,000, but he wanted $600,000. 
The Cowboys then suspended him on Aug. 26 for four games. 
Solomon played four seasons with Minnesota. 
Houston in early August. 

Fronek and Dr. Cliff Colwell repaired wear and tear on the articular cartilage in Gwynn's knee. The doctors determined that there was no problem with the meniscus cartilage, which confirmed a magnetic reso­nance imaging test performed last week. 
Gwynn's expected recovery time is two to six weeks. The Padres have only 15 games re-
that won't matter. "We have a good solid defense, with a lot of guys contributing," he said. 
ZAHM 

Coach Kevin Casey sees this years squad as one with no true superstars, a group which puts forth a great team effort. "Both maining. 
Gwynn last played in a 5-1 loss at Atlanta last Thursday, going 1-for-3 to slip to .317. He went 4-for-27 in six games in September. 
Fronek and Colwell also per­formed arthroscopic surgery on pitcher Adam Peterson, re­moving a bone spur from his right elbow. His recovery time is estimated at four to eight weeks. 
offensively and defensively we have had a real team effort," said Casey. He will need a supreme team effort if Zahm is to finish better than its 1-3 campaign in 1990. 
Although Zahm's offense line doesn't have an abundance of experience, Casey still sees it as 
Humphrey remains trade bait as Niners end talks 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. (AP) ­Trade talks between Denver and San Francisco over Broncos holdout running back Bobby Humphrey have broken down. 
"The two sides couldn't get together," 49ers coach George Seifert said Wednesday. "Sometimes these things don't work. It's a dead issue at this particular time." 
Humphrey, a 1,000-yard rusher in each of the past two seasons, was sought by the 49ers to shore up a ground game that has yet to recover from the departure of Roger Craig. 
But Seifert was unwilling to meet Denver's demand of a starting defensive lineman or next year's first-round draft pick. 
"I think both sides spent a lot of time discussing this in good faith," 49ers vice president John McVay said. "We just had an honest difference as to what we were willing to do. George defmitely does not want to give away one of our starters, espe­cially a _defensive players." 
The 49ers have used a com­mittee of backs to replace Craig, now a starter with the Los Angeles Raiders after be­coming a Plan B free agent. 
But Keith Henderson, Harry Sydney, Dexter Carter and Spencer Tillman have re­sponded with limited success. 
That has allowed other teams to continue focusing defensive efforts on the 49ers' passing game and San Francisco (1-2) is 
his teams strength. "Our whole offensive line has to be consid­ered the teams biggest strength," he said. 
Despite the absence of a lot of seniors, Casey still feels his de­fense will shine. "Our defense should surprise some this year, we have a strong unit," he said. 
Good things don't always come in small packages ... 







ThePrudential 

Comptroller's Organization 
If you're the best looking to join one of the biggest and most dynamic corporations in the world ... 
Explore employment opportunities with America's leading financial institution. 
The Comptroller's Organization will be interviewing on campus 

November 1 
For more information, contact your Career Placement Office. Sign-ups for invitational schedule September 23 • 24. 
off to its worst start since the strike-shortened 1982 season. 
Quarterback Steve Young, who has 17 rushes for 110 yards, has the best rushing av­erage at 6.5 yards. · 
Henderson, Sydney, Carter, Tillman and fullback Tom Rathman have just 198 yards among them on 59 carries for a collective average of 3.5 yards. 
Henderson leads the club with 135 yards on 28 carries 
(4.8 per carry) but the two backs listed as starters, Carter and Rathman, have combined for only 24 yards on 18 carries (a 1.3 per carry average.). 
Seifert said he planned to continue rotating his backs. 
"We feel good about the backs we have," he said. "I think it's (the running game) improved over a year ago. It's not as though we're a dominant running team but it's not as if we went into the season pre­tending to be. We're a passing team and we've got to be able to run the ball in particular sit­uations." 
The possibility of an acquisi­tion prior to the Oct. 8 trading deadline remains. 

~AN\VI-1/Lt;•.. 
where else can you go dancing, visit the casino, or have dinner with friends? 
...IN THE NITE CLUB 
SAVE$2.00 with this coupon for admission into the Nite Club between 7to 9 PM· Tues-Sat 
ND1 offer expires 9-29-91 
······························-··-~ 
...IN THE GRILL 
FREE APPETIZER with this coupon when you order 2dinner entrees 4pm to close Mon-Sat 
ND1 offer expires 9-29-91 
····-·-··---··-···--·-····-····----~ 

MEMMIUILE... 
2..22. F;OUTU .MICUIGAN F;OUTU a.N!), IN!)IANA :z.tf 2.34 5200 




"The things I like best about Radian are the work environment and the diversity of work. The managers at Radian are committed to an open door policy that I find is a real asset. I am allowed to pursue my work, but if I have a question or problem, my super­visor, or any other Radian manager, is always there to help. The managers seem more like co-workers." 
• Jeremy Walker (B.S., Civil Engineering, University of Notre Dame, 1990) 
Since 1969 Radian has delivered expert solutions to our clients' technical and environmental problems worldwide. For 22 years our engineers, scientists, and technical specialists have given us the talent, vision, and creativity that have made us one of the premier consulting firms in the public and private sectors. 
We owe our success to the sp,ecial qualities of each of our employees. And we. believe our congenial work environment fosters a profes­sional camaraderie among people who want to put their ideas and skills to work. 
To learn more about Radian Corporation, see our videotape at your placement center. 
RADIAN 
CORPORATION 
An equal opportunity employer 
-"" 

-~-------­
page 16 The Observer Thursday, September 19, 1991 
Red Sox keep heat on Jays; Dodgers, Braves win 
BOSTON (AP) -The Red Sox 
kept up the pressure on Toronto 
as Jack Clark homered and 
scored three runs, leading 
Boston over Baltimore 7-5 
Wednesday night. 
The Red Sox, who entered the 
game 2 112 games behind the 
Blue Jays in the AL East, have 
won 12 of their last 15 games. 
Toronto played at Seattle. 
The Red Sox took a 5-0 lead 
in the frrst three innings against 
Dave Johnson (4-6), but Mike 
Gardiner (9-7) couldn't get 
through the sixth. He got the 
victory with relief help from 
Dan Petry, Tony Fossas and 
Greg Harris. BOSTON (AP) 
-The Red Sox kept up the 
pressure on Toronto as Jack 
Clark homered and scored 
three runs, leading Boston over 
Baltimore 7-5 Wednesday night. 
The Red Sox, who entered the 
game 2 112 games behind the 
Blue Jays in the AL East, have 
won 12 of their last 15 games. 
Toronto played at Seattle. 
The Red Sox took a 5-0 lead 
in the frrst three innings against 
Dave Johnson (4-6), but Mike 
Gardiner (9-7) couldn't get 
through the sixth. He got the 
victory with relief help from 
Dan Petry, Tony Fossas and 
Greg Harns. 
Clark, who walked and scored twice in his frrst two plate ap­pearances, increased Boston's lead to 6-2 by leading off the fifth against Anthony Telford with a line drive into the bleachers in center for his 24th homer. 
Royals 1 0, Twins 4 
MINNEAPOLIS -Right fielder Gene Larkin misplayed Todd Benzinger's hit into a triple in a six-run sixth inning, and Kansas City foiled Scott Erickson's attempt to become the major league's first 19­game winner. 
The AL West-leading Twins, 2-6 after winning seven of their frrst eight games in September, made two errors and had sev­eral other poor defensive plays. 
Luis Aquino (8-3) allowed three hits in five innings and is 5-1 with a 3.19 ERA since mov­Ing into Kansas City's starting rotation July 25.. Tom Gordon pitched two innings, and Joel Johnston and Mike Magnante each pitched one to finish the game. 
Erickson (18-7) is 6-5 with a 
6.75 ERA since his 12-game winninfi streak ended June 29. 

He hasn't pitched well since el­bow soreness forced him to spend time on the disabled list. Erickson gave up seven runs, six earned, and eight hits in 5 2-3 innings. 
Yankees 2, Brewers 1 NEW YORK -Roberto Kelly led off the lOth inning with his second home run of the game to lift New York over Milwaukee. Kelly tied the score with a homer in the seventh inning, and won it with his career-high 16th on the second pitch of the lOth to spoil a five-hit perfor­mance by Jamie Navarro (13­12). Steve Farr (4-4) worked the fmal two innings for the victory after Jeff Johnson pitched five­hit ball over eight innings. 
Indians 3, Tigers 2 CLEVELAND -Charles Nagy won for the fourth time in his last five starts as the Indians beat Detroit, completing a six­game sweep of their season series at Cleveland Stadium. It marked the first time the Tigers have gone winless at Cleveland Stadium for an entire season. Detroit has lost three straight overall and has not won at Cleveland since Aug. 13 of last year. Cleveland won for the fifth time in seven games. Bill Gullickson (18-9) failed in his bid to become the major league's frrst 19-game winner. 
White Sox 6, Athletics 0 CHICAGO -Jack McDowell pitched a five-hitter for Chicago's second straight shutout against Oakland as the White Sox beat the Athletics 6­0, moving within six games of Minnesota in the AL West. The Twins lost 10-4 to Kansas City earlier in the day. Both the Twins and White Sox have 15 games left, including six against each other. McDowell (17 -9) walked two and struck out six in his major­league leading 15th complete game. No Oakland player reached second base as McDowell tossed his third com­plete game. Dave Stewart (11-10) gave up three runs and seven hits in 5 2-3 innings. Ozzie Guillen's l,OOOth major­league hit, a single with the bases loaded in the second in­ning, gave Chicago a 2-0 lead. 
National league to left for the winning run. hits in the first seven innings, Pittsburgh, which scored two then allowed two runs and four
Cubs 4, Mets 1 

runs in the fifth and three in the hits in the eighth. Alejandro 
NEW YORK (AP) -The New sixth, increased its NL East lead Pena got Benito Santiago on an York Mets were mathematically to a season-high 11 1/2 games. inning-ending groundout and eliminated in the NL East as Roger Mason (3-0) pitched 1 1-3 fmished for his ninth save. Greg Maddux pitched a five-hit­innings of perfect relief. ter Wednesday night and led 
Giants 7, Reds 2

the Chicago Cubs to a 4-1 vic­
Phlilies 1, Expos 0 
SAN FRANCISCO -Trevortory. 
PHILADELPHIA -Terry Wilson pitched a five-hitter andFrank Viola (12-15) lost his Mulholland threw a two-hitter hit a two-run single in theseventh straight decision and and beat Dennis Martinez in a three-run sixth inning as Santhe lOth in his last 11. He gave battle of no-hit pitchers. Francisco won its fourthup all four runs and nine hits in Mulholland (15-11) struck out straight.

six innings. 
10 and walked none in his Wilson (11-10) won for theMaddux (12-10) allowed five second shutout and sixth com­seventh time in eight decisions, hits in his fifth complete game plete game this year, increasing striking out five and walkingthis season and the 27th of his his record against the Expos two in his frrst complete gamecareer, and increased his record this season to 4-0. since Aug. 4, 1990.

against the Mets to 4-1 this Martinez (1 0-14) lowered his Jack Armstrong (7 -12) gaveseason. 
ERA from 2.40 to 2.35, taking up four runs and six hits in sixDoug Dascenzo had a career­the NL lead from Cincinnati's innings. Cincinnati has lost four 

high four hits and Andre 
Jose Rijo (2.39). Martinez gave of five and 13 of19.
Dawson drove in two runs. 

up seven hits, struck out five and walked two. Dodgers 5, Astros 4
Pirates 6, Cardinals 5 

LOS ANGELES Mike PITTSBURGH -Cecil Espy hit Sharperson hit a go-ahead sin­
Braves 6, Padres 4 

a sacrifice fly in the ninth as the gle in the seven.th inning and
SAN DIEGO -Seven of

Pittsburgh rallied from a 5-0 Eddie Murray hit a two-run
Atlanta's first eight batters got
deficit and reduced its magic homer as the Los Angeles
hits as the Braves scored five

number to six. Dodgers beat the Houston
first-inning runs, and Tom
Willie Fraser (3-2) walked Astros 5-4 Wednesday night
Glavine became the first 19­
Orlando Merced with one out in and maintained their half-game 
game winner in the majors. 
the ninth, Jay Bell singled lead over Atlanta in the NL
Glavine (19-10) allowed three

Merced to third and Espy flied West. 
SPORlS BRIEFS 

•Any 
graduate student or faculty member interested in coaching, advising, and or competing in gymnastics should contact Tim Sullivan at 283-3274. The team can pay money simply for an advisor's presence. Regular gymnastics begins Monday at 4:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility At Saint Mary's. 

•The 
NO Martial Arts Institute will hold beginners classes in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial on Thursday from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. and Sunday 6 to 8 p.m. Advanced classes are held Friday from 6: to 8 p.m. and Saturday 10 to 


12. Anyone is welcome to attend. 
•For 
anyone Interested In trying out for the Notre Dame men's volleyball team, tryouts will be held on Sunday, Sept. 22 in the pit of the JACC at 1 p.m. for freshmen and seniors and at 3 p.m. for sophomores and juniors. If you have any questions, call Mike Flecker at 289-5311. 

•Notre 
Dame Ski Team/Club will hold its first meeting regarding our Christmas trip and ski team tryouts tonight. All interested should meet in 118 Nieuwland at 8:30 p.m. Questions call Chris at 277-7089 or Greer at 284-5048. 


•Men's 
and women's lnterhall football schedules can he picked up at the RecSports office. 

•NO 
Rowing Club: Anyone interested in being a novice coach should call Pete at 271­8466. Also all varsity and alumni rowers are reminded that Alumni Row is this Saturday. Mass is at 9:00 at the boathouse, with races and a cookout to follow. 

•Women's 
off-campus football will practice today at 5 p.m. on Stepan Field. 

•Ice 
hockey coaches are needed. The Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for students who would like to help coach young hockey players form the South Bend area. All those interested should contact Jackie McKew at 256-6839, or write the league office at P.O. Box 490, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

•ND 
Boxing Club: Practice for the Novice Tournament begins Monday, September 23. All interested students are invited to attend. Meet outside the boxing room at 4 p.m. The boxing room is located just inside gate 3 of the J.A.C.C. 


•Want to earn some easy money? Rec 
Sports needs referees for women's flag football, 

•The Observer Sports Department will hold 
grad/faculty football, and soccer. Pay is $10 per

a mandatory meeting for all editorial staff tonight 
game. For more information or to sign up, call

at 7 p.m. at The Observer office. 
Pete Skiko at 239-6100 . 


Thursday, September 19, 1991 The Observer page 17 


Volunteers earn slap on wrist for recruiting violations 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) ­The. University of Tennessee escaped the full force of NCAA sanctions Wednesday when Its football program was placed on two years' probation for re­cruiting violations. 
While Tennessee faced bans on television and bowl appear­ances and strict recruiting limi­tations, the NCAA's most serious penalty was a reduction of scholarships for each of the next two seasons. The NCAA also cut one permanent coach­Ing position. 
Over the next three seasons, however, new NCAA. rules call for the elimination of 10 schol­arships and one coaching posi­tion for all schools. Next season, teams will be allowed to carry 92 scholarships players, while Tennessee wlll be allowed 85. In 1993, the limit drops to 88 and then 85 In 1994. The coaching cut takes effect next year. 
The NCAA said Tennessee's cooperation with the investiga­tion and Its own remedial ac­tions played a major role in the fmal decision. 
"All of us at the university certainly regret those things occurred that led to the NCAA investigation," university presi­dent Joe Johnson said at a news conference. "But we are satisfied with the conclusions of the infractions committee and do not plan any sort of appeal." 
The probation begins within 15 days. 
In April, the NCAA charged Tennessee with six violations, including improper recruiting activities by former assistant coach Jack Sells. The NCAA also charged that Sells tried to cover up his actions by lying to an NCAA investigator last December. 
After conducting its own in­vestigation, Tennessee fired Sells on June 7 and cut 10 of its 

Jack Sells 

maximum 95 scholarships. Sell's position was not nlled. 
The NCAA Committee on Infractions said Tennessee's vi­olations were major, but the full penalty wasn't levied because of the unusual circumstances. 
MWe accept the findings, and I reiterate that I fully understand that as a head coach I bear total responsibility for the football program," coach Johnny Majors 
Baltics return to IOC as independents 
Three former Soviet republics to compete in Barcelona 
BERLIN (AP) -The 1992 Winter and Summer Olympics will mark the return of independent Baltic teams after a forced exile of more than half a century. 
Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia were welcomed back Into the Olympic fold on Wednesday In recognition of their newly won Independence from the Soviet Union. 
The three states regained full membership In the International Olympic Committee and were Invited to compete in next winter's Games at Albertville, France and the summer Olympics at Barcelona, Spain.
MWe waited 50 years for this," said Arturas Povillunas, president of the Lithuanian Olympic Committee. 'Today is a big day." 
The decision, supported by the Soviet National Olympic Committee, was adopted unanimously by the IOC Executive Board on the second day of Its three-day meeting. The board's concluding session today featured progress reports from organizers of the 1992, 1994 and 1996 Games. 
IOC officials were also following the case of board member Robert Helmick, who resigned Wednesday as president of the U.S. Olympic Committee In the wake of controversy over his business dealings. Helmick left Berlin and returned to the United States, where he announced he his resignation. 
In a statement released Wednesday night by the USOC, Helmick said, Mit Is time for the Olympic family and my family to get on with their lives." 
Helmick said his resignation, effective immediately, was a decision "made by me and my family. No one has asked me to resign or forced me to resign. Anyone who feels I am running from the heat is dead wrong. There has not been a single piece of, quote, evidence, unquote, since all this media nonsense began." 
Arnold Green, head of the Estonian Olympic Committee, said it was fitting that the readmission of the Baltics took place in Berlin, the same city where his republic last competed in the Games in 1936. 
"Today's decision was very important," he said. "It will help sports in our countries develop more and more. I think all our sportsmen are now ready to take part not only in the Olympic Games but in all kinds of championships in Europe and the world." 
The Baltics were IOC members between the world wars and competed as independent nations in the Olympics until they were annexed in 1940. Once the Soviet Union began competing in the Olympics in 1952, Baltic athletes were forced to take part under the red flag. 
The Estonians said they hope to have 20-25 athletes at the Winter Games and 30-40 at the Summer Games; Lithuania only a handful in Albertville but 30­40 in Barcelona; Latvia 15-20 in Albertville and 30 in Barcelona. 
One of the strongest Baltic teams in Barcelona figures to be the men's basketball sauad 
from Lithuania. Poviliunas said it will include four Lithuanian stars from the Soviet Union's 1988 gold medal team in Seoul -all playing professionally now in Europe and the United States. 
Of the Soviet Union's 161 medals in the 1988 Winter and Summer Games, the Baltic states won 14.9, with the fraction coming from their contribution in team sports. 
IOC vice president Keba Mbaye, chairman of the commission on the Baltics, said he and IOC President Juan Antonio Samaranch had accepted an invitation to visit the republics before the end of the year. 
said. "I'm very pleased there are no sanctions involved other than probation. 
"I regret there were viola­tions, and I. pledge we will ac­cept nothing less from our staff members than total compliance with NCAA, SEC and University of Tennessee rules and regula­tions." 
Tennessee (2-0) is ranked sixth in the nation and is shooting for its third consecu­tive Southeastern Conference title. On Saturday, the Vols meet No. 23 Mississippi State at Knoxville. 
The Volunteers also were ac­cused of running an improper summer camp, which the NCAA said was essentially a try-out camp for potential recruits. Tennessee denied that charge. 
The NCAA said Wednesday it "strongly advised" Tennessee to change the way it runs its summer camp, which was sus­pended this year. Johnson said the school will comply. 
Tom Jones, a Knoxville at­torney who represents Sells, said: "The university received no serious sanctions as a result of any of its conduct, or any conduct attributed to Jack. So overall we're very pleased, both for Jack and for the university." 
There also is a three-year Mshow cause" provision against Sells. The NCAA provision re­quires any school hiring Sells over the next three years to ap­pear before the committee and say why Sells' duties should not be restricted. 
The NCAA put Tennessee on a one-year probation in 1986 for violating the rules, and Majors was reprimanded by the univer­sity. That probation did not in­clude any ban on postseason play, television appearances or scholarships. 

SPORTS SHORTS 
Former Irish star Cantley to pi~ In Italy 
•MILAN, Italy -Former NBA star A~ian Dantley signed Wednesday with Breeze Arese a few days before the start of the Italian League season. Club officials said Wednesday that the 35-year-old forward will debut in Sunday's opener against Sidis Reggio Emilia. The former scoring star for Detroit, Dallas, Utah and Milwaukee will team at Arese with fellow American Danny Vranes. Terms of his contract were not made public but club sources indicated that Dantley would get $340,000 for one season. 
Rioken fourth shortstop to hit 30 dlngers 
•BOSTO~ 
-Baltimore's Ca Ripken on Wednesday became the fourth shortstop in major-league history to hit 30 homers in a season, joining Ernie Banks, Rico Petrocelli and Vern Stephens. Ripken hit a line drive into the left-field screen at Fenway Park in the sixth inning off Mark Gardiner. Ripken, this season's All-Star game MVP, Is hitting .326 with 99 RBis. He has 255 career homers. 

•NE 
YORK -The Los Angeles Dodgers won the coin toss Wednesday to determine the site of a National League West tie-breaker game, should one be necessary with the Atlanta Braves. toss was held in NL president Bill White's office with general managers Fred Claire of Los Angeles and John Schuerholz of Atlanta participating via conference call. Claire made the call. It was heads. So, if the division Is tied at the end of the regular season on Oct. 6, a playoff game would be held the next day at Dodger Stadium. 



Veteran announcer Buck hos~ltallzed 
•PHILADELPHIA -Jack Buck, t eSt. Louis Cardinals' play-by-play radio announcer, remained hospitalized Wednesday after complaining of weakness and lower back pain. Buck left the broadcast booth during the Cardinals­Phillies game at Veterans Stadium Tuesday night and was taken to Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, spokeswoman Kellyann McDonnell said. He was expected to stay Wednesday night. He was hi fair but stable condition Wednesday, McDonnelll said. 
We're looking for seniors who like 


working with an kinds ofhardware. 
Careers in data processing, accounting, actuarial, and auditing at State Farm. 
At State Fann, we understand the concept of "work:' Believe it or not, we also understand the concept of "plaY:' 
Thats because we don't think you can be really outstanding at the first without having an appreciation for the second. Which is exactly why a career at State Fann in Bloomington could be the ideal place for you. 
You'll work for one of the countrys most respected companies on the most advanced computer equipment in the industry. You'll be challenged and stimulated. 'You'll be rewarded with excellent pay and benefil~. You'll make your classmates very envious. 
Whats more, you'll also have time to appreciate the fmer things in life. Thats because Bloom­ington isn't just a great place to start a career, its a great place to live, to enjoy, to start a family (if, indeed, you're ready to start thinking about that). In addition to the communitys pleasant neighbor­hoods, inviting parks, and other recreational facilities, you'll fmd two universities that offer a host of cultural and social activities to take advantage of Stat v. 
Ifyou're a Senior with a math, accounting, data processing, e ranD
STATI FAIM 

or computer science background, come talk to us at your ....&.... Insurance college placement office. We're looking for people who are .. Co . motivated and outgo~g. People who ~njoy c~allenges. on the INSUIANC~ mp3Illes 
job -and away from Il After all, you re not JUSt looking for a Home Offices: Bloomington, illinois. great job. You're looking for a great way oflife. An equal opportunity employer. 



page 18 The Observer Thursday, September 19, 1991 

Women's interhall begins Sunday 
By ELAINE J.C. DEBESSIGE 
Sports Writer 
On Sunday at Cartier Field, women's interhall football begins competition. The Blue and Gold Leagues kick off their seasons with 12 teams who will try and earn a trip to the championship at the stadium in October. 
The year will prove to be a learning experience for most teams. Many of the teams are overloaded with freshmen and have lost veterans to graduation. 
From the Gold League, the Off-Campus Heathens look to be the team to beat. They have experience over the rest of the league which consists of Badin, Breen-Phillips, Howard, Lyons and Walsh. 
A closer look at the Gold League: 

Badin 
Badin will be led by sophomore quarterback Shari Shepard and Jen Schimpf on defense. 
The Badin Attitude hopes to surprise the league this year despite many inexperienced players. They will work hard to improve their 1-4 record form last year. 
"We will surprise people. We have a lot of enthusiasm." said team captain, Deborah Skahan. 
Badin opens its season on Sunday against Walsh. 
Belles down 
Concordia in 


straight games 

.-.. BY KRISTEN MARTINA 
sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball 
team captured its third win of the season Tuesday night by 
~~~~~~~1~~~cordia College 15­Michelle Martino led the 


Breen-Phllllps 

The Breen-Phillips Blitz will open against Off-Campus in hopes of defending their 1990 championship. 
Even BP has not evaded the problem of inexperience. However, the freshmen are very talented and will add force to the already strong defense. The Blitz, known for their defense, is confident that it will be just as strong. 
Returning standouts include Cathy Krach and Chris Lopiccolo on defense and Liz Pierson on offense. 

Howard 

Howard will be rebuilding its entire offensive line this season. Freshmen will have a big impact on the team this season, according to team captain, Christal Henderson. 
The starting defense is back and look to be a force to contend with. 

Lyons 

Lyons, unlike many of its opponents, returns many veteran players. They will take advantage of this situation and try to better their 2-3 record from last season. 
"Half · of the team is experienced and if we don't make mistakes we have a good shot at the playoffs." said coach Dan Garibaldi. 
Lyons' defense is strong and 
quick. It will be difficult to pass 
on them because the safety 
position is fast. The defensive 
line will also be a plus for 'the 
team. 

They open their season 
against Howard this Sunday. 


Off-Campus 

Veteran players will be the key to Off-Campus success this year. Although the team is comprised of all new people, they are . experienced and will be quite intimidating once they get more 
familiar with each other. 

Quarterback Michelle 
Kowalski will lead the Off­
Campus offense. There are 
many standouts on this team, 
which lost in the semifmals last 
year. 

"We are a completely different 
team this year." said captain, 
Kristy Alkidas. Referring to the 
team name, Alkidas added 
"We're like that on and off the 
field." 
Walsh 

Walsh is optimistic about 
improving on last season's 0-6 
record with the help of several 
talented newcomers. 

"Our new coaches have built 
a destructive defense and a 
powerful offensive line, not to 
mention our explosive attack 
out of the backfield," said junior 
Jeanne Blasi. 

Flower Deliver~ 7 Days 6 ~ -v 0 ~ t La
r@~ oJ r-p t rt 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Rowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
~~;:~~w31erNSqortuahre (219\ 277•1291 
'J 


Belles with 14 service points, •;;;So~u~th~B~H~~IN~4~66~3~7;;~"~1~1~1;.A~II~W§•~··~Z4ilar~l;·~ 
eight of which were aces. She also had 37 assists and six kills. Kim Brandsetter and Laura Panowicz also contributed to the victory. 
"The team did a great job in maintaining control of the match," said coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "Michelle re­ally came through with her serving, which helped us a lot." 
The Belles, now three and seven, face Saint Joseph's College tonight in the Angela Athletic Facility at 7:00 p.m. The match should be a tough one for the Belles. 
"Saint Joseph's should give us quite a challenge," said Schroeder-Biek. "Our win against Concordia gives us the momentum we need going into our match " ' 

Deion Sanders backs Nixon after suspension for drugs 
SUWANEE, Ga. (AP) ­Atlanta Braves outfielder Otis Nixon, a target of fan and media criticism since his drug-related suspension this week, got some support from a friend Wednesday. 
Atlanta Falcons defensive back and Braves outfielder Deion Sanders, a close friend of Nixon, said he's angry at assumptions that Nixon has somehow let down the Braves or the fans. 
"I know for a fact ... I know Otis Nixon is not that kind of person," Sanders said after practice at the Falcons training camp. "They were on his bandwagon just a couple of days ago when he was driving in runs and doing it for the team and now they say it was drug-aided. That's not true. They haven't even heard his side of everything and they're crucifying him." 
Nixon has made no public comment so far since he was suspended 60 days by commissioner Fay Vincent for a positive drug test. Nixon's agent said the outfielder may have a statement Thursday. 
Nixon was being monitored as part of baseball's aftercare program, which he was placed in after a 1987 drug­related arrest. Sanders said it was preposterous that Nixon would jeopardize his career and the Brave.s' pennant­contending season. 
"This man was having the best year of his career, a free­agent year, the team's winning, he had an outside chance at MVP and the man already gets drug tests three times a week," Sanders said. "So why would you want to use drugs ...? People need to open their eyes instead of just crucifying the man." 


The Observer is currenHy accepting applications for the following paid positions: Asst Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Features Photo Editor Saint Mary's Photo Editor one page page personal statement shoul be submitted to Andrew Me Closkey at Tbe Observer by Tbursday, Sept 19, at 5pm. For furUler information contact Andrew Me Closkey at 2~~i47l 
Kri'ENTION ALL FRESHMEN!!!!! 


If you are interseted in running for freshman class advisory council, please attend an informational meeting about the election, which is set for for October 7. 
When: Thursday, Sept.19, 7:00pm Where: Montgomery Theater, La Fortune Student Center. 
II 

(If you cannot attend this meeting, please stop by the Student Government Office for a 
;etltlon arid a~~ of the rules) 


... 
-Judicial Council 


r-----------------------------~ 
Thursday, September 19, 1991 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 


Thursday 
6 p.m. Presentation/Reception for all undergraduate students interested in discovering career opportunities with Leo Burnett and Company. Alumni-Senior Club. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
7 p.m. Personal Statement Seminar, Part II. Library Auditorium. Sponsored by the Pre-Law Society. 
7 p.m. Volleyball, Saint Mary's College vs. Saint Joseph's College. Angela Athletic Facility. 
8 p.m. Film, WThe Karate Kid." Cushing Auditorium. 
10:30 p.m. FUm, WThe Karate Kid." Cushing Auditorium. 
LECTURES 
Thursday 
4 p.m. Lecture, wDevelopment of the Medical Faculty in Medieval Oxford University," Dr. Faye Getz. Medieval Institute, llesburgh Library. Sponsored by Rellly Center. 
4 p.m. Lecture, Postmodernism and Contemporary European Culture, wPostmodern Authorities," Eugene Hochberg-Halton. Room C-1 03 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
4 p.m. Lecture, WBuick's Commitment to Customer Satisfaction & Quality," Edward Mertz. Haggar College Center Parlor, Saint Mary's. Sponsored by American Marketing Association. 
7 p.m. Lecture, WEmployment Opportunities Within the Insurance Industry," Patti Weed, Great American Insurance Co. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's. Sponsored by SMC Counseling and Career Development. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Top Hound of Beef Arroz Con Pollo Fettucini Alfredo 
CALVIH AND HOBBES 

IT'S 'tl\-ltN '100 ~~fl. TML ANO ~lSI IT ~ I~ /'..VII-liP 
IT STINGS L\1(£ CRA?-i M-ID IS 1"-\\lO\ WOI1SE ~~N B£.1\--¥.; 
Saint Mary's 
Jumbo Burger Sweet-n-Sour Pork Cheese Enchiladas Deli Bar 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
I ~VJ~'{S "M)IJ<i,~T liFt: G\l~RI)S 'tlt.R£ ji..\ST Tf:o.\f,\-IT 1-\Cl'N ~ R£5\lSC.\il\it. ffi:i'\..E ~0 ~I~GS L\'1::£. -n1~T. 












-~llllll_m~~mrf
w
-

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

9-19 
Flawed cultural treasures 

59 Maid's concern 
60 One way to get Polish sausage? 
63 In a wasteful manner 
64 How Victorians acted 
DOWN 
1 Was puzzled 2 Within: Comb. form 30nceupon a 
time 4 Alliance need 5 Meriting 
detestation 6 Short jacket 7 Lapse &Invalid 

befriended by Heidi 9 A "2001" star 10 Keep-(plug 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 

along) 11 Seaport near San Marino 12 Start of a famed soliloquy 13 Shows contempt 14 Coin equaling 1/100 of a peso 
15 Guru's goal 
20 Cinquefoil feature 
22Dream manifestation: Abbr. 
25 Upstanding 




27 Cooper or Ghostley 29 Simulate or 
ridicule 31 Continue 32 N.A.-Eur. 
divider 35 Bitterly derisive 37ln an 
advantageous way 
38 Hutch's TV partner 39 Beethoven 
piece 
ACROSS 

1 Meteorologists' maps 14 The act of felicitating 15 Took a chance with a dance? 
16 Comb. form with Chinese or Pacific 
11Man of La Mancha 
18 Stadium section 
19-Annede Beaupre 20-premium (sparse) 21 Egypt, once: Abbr. 23 Word after 12 
Down 24Stuntman 26 Diamond club 28 V.I.P.'s in 
Arabia 30 Bold bridge bid 32 "-'-Blue?'': 
1929 song 33 Style 34 Rousseau was 
one 36 Rumple 40 London lout 42 Large Jovian 
moon 44 Repulsive 47 Hesse's lang. 48 Popular rock 
band 49Miss Hogg so Inner: Prefix 52 Apply mousse 54 Monk's title 55 Does a lawn job 570n-(in 
control) 41 A vote for 
43 Tennis ploy 
44 Holy aura 
45 Tab listing 
48 Jackie Coogan 
role: 1930 47 Number having 100 zeros 51 Restraint 
53"--inthe Crowd," 1957 
·film 56 Bag, in Burriana sa Ariz. Indian 59 Cabbage Patch 
occupant 61 Dish made from taro 62 Frog's perch 


T0t11GH1 

MISERY 
e ~ 1o:,o p,m, 

•
CtJ5HJ(lG AtJO ITO~ItJffl 
STUDENT UNION BOARD
ADmJ55JOt1 $~ 






Sports 

page 20 Thursday, September 19, 1991 
Irish men run away in 5-0 win over Central Michigan 
Five different Irish score in rout; Bader notches shutout despite making only one save 
By JASON KELLY Mike Berticelli. "We were said, recognizing his team's im­Sports Writer pressing too much in the first provement but realizing that half and we really rushed our there is still a long way to go.. 
Junior Kevin Pendergast pre­chances." Defensively, the Irish turned dicted five goals and the Irish Freshman Keith Carlson net­in another impressive perfor­men's soccer team delivered, ted his first career goal on an mance against the Chippewas. collecting their frrst win of the assist from Palmer's corner kick Senior co-captain Brett 
season in a 5-0 defeat of at the 56:36 mark. Rookie Tim Hofmann led the defense, which Central Michigan Wednesday Oates, who led the Irish with completely shut down Central night at Moose Krause Stadium. five shots on goal, duplicated Michigan's attack, allowing only 
It took most of the first half the feat on a breakaway ten two -shots on goal. Freshman for the offense to get on the minutes later before junior goalie Bert Bader wasn't very board, but once they got rolling Brendon Dillman rounded out busy Wednesday night, 
the Chippewas could not stop the scoring on a pass from collecting only one save on the the Irish attack. freshman Rick Christofer 77:29 way to his frrst career shutout. 
Despite firing 17 first half into the game. "Any time you have a shutout shots, the Irish could not get on Despite the explosive offen­you have to credit the defense," the board until sophomore Mike sive showing, the Irish still Berticelli noted. "We really Palmer converted a penalty failed to convert some golden prevented them from having shot at the 44:15 mark of the scoring opportunities. Central any legitimate chances in the opening period. Michigan goalies Jerry first half." 
Pendergast started Notre Smolenski and Brian Easton Wednesday night's match Dame's second half scoring kept the score down, stopping marked only the second time barrage with a breakaway less 16 of Notre Dame's 28 shots on the two teams have met on the than a minute into the fmal pe­goal. soccer field and the first time riod, giving the team a much "Creating opportunities and since Notre Dame's 2-0 win in needed boost. fmishing is the last piece to the 1984. The victory improves 
"The early goal was really puzzle, but we're still going to Notre Dame's record to 1-2-0, helpful in the second half," be a lot better two or three while Central Michigan falls to commented second year coach weeks from now," Berticelli 2-3-0. 

Coyle aspires to championship 
BY JONATHAN JENSEN tain Pat Kearns and another Olympics," said Coyle, "I'm only Sports Writer returning All-American in young once. When I'm thirty I Sophomore Mike McWilliams, is don't want to have any regrets. 
If John Coyle says he has aspi­out to prove last year's per­I don't want to say that I wish I rations for the Olympics, there formance in the Nationals was had given it a shot." should be no reason to doubt not just "a flash in the pan." Despite his great success in 
he'll get there. "We're as good as any team at college, Coyle realizes he will 
After all, Coyle did lead the any day," said Coyle. "We feel have to work extremely hard to upstart Irish to a third place we can win the whole thing. get where he wants to be. "I crown at the NCAA Cross That might be added pressure need a vast amount of im­Country Championships last but you have to have it to be provement. But running has year. His 24th place finish great." been good to me so I feel I owe earned him All-American Coyle fmished in the top ten in it to myself. honors in only his sophomore every one of Notre Dame's "You don't just stumble into season. However, when you ask competitions last year, and led the Olympics, you have to want Coyle what excites him about the Irish in the last two. He will to be there. And I definitely the upcoming year, his thoughts most likely he called upon to want to be there." turn to his Notre Dame lead Notre Dame's return to Even though Coyle has hopes teammates. The Irish and national prominence again this for the 1996 Olympics in coach Joe Piane are con­year. Atlanta, he would enjoy nothing centrating on improving on "It's been a long time since we more than to lead Notre Dame their third place finish a year have won a cross country na­to the National Championship. ago. tional championship (1957)," "Right now we're ranked fifth," 
"Last year we caught a lot of noted Coyle. "Right now the said Coyle, "We hope to end up people's eyes," said Coyle. sky's the limit for us, and it's a first." "This year we feel we can be good feeling." With the talent and determi­great. The bottom line is that Coyle is equally enthusiastic nation Coyle possesses, it two teams finished in front of about the Irish's prospects this wouldn't be surprising to see us, and we know we can run year as he is about his life after Notre Dame on top at the end of better." Notre Dame. "Sure I have the season,· and Coyle in Atlanta 
Coyle, along with Senior cap-aspirations about the in 1996. 


Leahy division men ready to rumble; Alumni favored 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN year as a starter and his 
much more effective. He will be handing off to an­presence has Coach Mark Bruening and Guillory will other freshman, Brian Baker, at 
Sports Writer 

Gillespie and the rest of the also lead the Studs on defense, the tailback slot and second Dawgs thinking championship. hut there they will not be alone. year starter Dave Dettore at Editor's note: This is the sec­Passinault isn't the only talent Brian Kelly returns, after an fullback. ond of a three-part series pre­injury sidelined him for all of Keenan's 5-2 defense will be
on offense. Tailback Dave 
viewing the 1991 men's inter­last year, to lead a tough de­headed by four year starter Joe
Ludwig, arguably the best back 
young faces," said Gillespie. "I

hall football season. fensive line, which also includes Mileti at inside linebacker, as
in the division last year, returns 
look for us to play solid football 

standout noseguard Jeremy well as Chris Barnette on the
The Leahy division shined last to anchor Alumni's ground at­
on both sides of the hall." 

Groll. Last year's defense was outside. The line will be headed 
year, as Alumni advanced to the tack. Ludwig and Passinult have 
Alumni faces Cavanaugh in 

not scored upon in regular sea­by Scott Sauer, who will be the
Interhall championship before been pared together for the 
the Leahy division opener. 

son play. leader of the young unit. 
falling to Off-Campus 10-6. This past two years, and appear to 
"We will need to continue our Webby feels his offense will he 
year, expect more of the same be getting better and better 
STANFORD 

strong defense, and offensively the key, if his team is to be suc­
from the Dawgs, but don't rule each season. 
The Studs had an off-year last we need to continue to develop cessful. "We must develop a
out the rest of the division. The On the other side of the ball 
season and the development of our ground game." said Coach short passing game, if we are
four other teams all should be -the Dawgs won't be as talented, 
a balanced offensive attack will Bill Gill. going to improve upon last
watched closely, as each team but still have enough returning 
be a big factor· if there is an Stanford faces Zahm this year," he said. 
has a shot to take the division. players to be a force. Gary 
improvement on their 1-1-2 Sunday. The Knights are off this
A Leahy division team by team Faucher will move from his de­
record of 1990. Sunday.
· breakdown: fensive back positio!l of last 
Stanford's wishbone attack

year, to the linebacking corps to KEENAN 
will center around the play of

make use of his hard-hitting Coach Phil Webby will turn to CAVANAUGH

ALUMNI 
tailback Lamar Guillory and

style. Brendan Fitzpatrick will youth this season to dispel the As Cavanaugh prepares far its 
It is said that every great team backfield partner Willie
rotate from nosetackle to thoughts of last season's dismal opening game against Alumni, 
has a great quarterback. If this Bruening. If the Studs can de­
linebacker as the Dawg defense 1-2-1 season. Coach Toni Novak will look to
is true, the Alumni Dawgs are velop any type of passing game 
changes and, he should play a The Knights will have fresh­his seniors to pull out the vic­
halfway to being a great team. to complement their running
key role in Alumni's stunting man quarterback Matt Davis
All-Rockne quarterback Jim attack , their offense will be
defense. leading the !-formation attack.
Passinault returns for his third 
see LEAHY/page 14 







