
Senate elections result in three wins, two run-offs, and controversy 

Presenting award AP Photo 
U.S. Desert Storm commander General Norman Schwarzkopf presents, Saturday, the citation for the Legion of Merrt, Degree of Officer Award, to Brrtish Lt. Gen. Peter De La Billiere, at the Ministery of Defence and Aviation in Riyadh. De La Billiere was praised for his astute leadership in the Gulf War. 

Saddam steals $1 0 billion in oil profits 
NEW YOHK (AP) -The head of th(l company hired by the Kuwaiti government to find out the size and location of Saddam Hussein's wealth estimates the Iraqi president's family has skimmed $10 billion in oil profilr; since 1981. 
Jules Kroll also says Iraqi in­vestors working for Saddam have purchased nearly $1 bil­lion worth of shares in public companies, including Paris­based llachette SA, one of the world's largest media compa­nies. Kroll says the stock pur­chases were made by Saddam's half-brother and several Iraqi directors. 
Kroll, president of the New York-based Kroll Associates investigations company, spoke in interviews published today by the Financial Times, a British newspaper, and 
By CATHY FLYNN AND 
MONICAYANT 
News Writers 
In yesterdays' Student Senate elections, 27 votes prevented a clear winner in the district one race, which has recently taken a racial focus that candidate Billy Allen called, "ridiculous." 

The three other campus con­tests resulted in decided victo­ries for Kristi Shafer, Joe Wil­son, and Bong Miquibas, but the off-campus race will pit the Jim Gordon-Brian Murphy ticket and the Kristen llarknett-Ellen Lanser in the Wednesday's run-off. 
The votes for the off-campus election were 71 to 68, respec­tively. 
Shafer claimed the district two position with 52.4 percent of the vote. Matthew Bomberger, the only other can­didate from this district, took 
43.9 percent of the vote. 
In district three, Miquibas won with 456 votes to Jorge Vera's 283 votes. "I am going to 
STUDENT SENATE ELECTION RESULTS 
DISTRICT 1 1Allen 288 2Peralez 261 3Certo 167 4McDonald 128 5Other 24 
DISTRICT 2 Shafer 184 Bomberger 154 Other 13 
work to deliver what I said I was going to do in my cam­paign," Miquibas said. 
Wilson ran an uncontested race in district four. 

A 3.1 percent difference in votes between Billy Allen and . Paul Peralez made a run-off election necessary in district one. Allen received 288 votes broadcast Sunday by CBS News' "60 Minutes." 
Kroll described Saddam, who took power in 1979, a.s one of the world's richest men. 
The reports quoted Kroll as saying Saddam and his family have skimmed up to 5 percent of Iraq's $200 billion in oil sales since 1981. Kroll also said he found evidence they siphoned an average of 2.5 percent off contracts with Japanese companies. 
The Financial Times report did not address whether any of the holdings could be classified as ill-gotten gains under U.N. resolutions adopted after Iraq's August 2 invasion of Kuwait. Those resolutions intended to force Iraq to relinquish Kuwait and recover plundered Kuwaiti assets. 
The CBS report, quoting 
Kroll, said Iraq had moved some of its money to circum­vent a freeze on overseas Iraqi accounts. 
Kroll said Iraq transferred huge sums in early August to Jordanian banks. He also said Kuwaiti luxury vehicles stolen by Iraq's occupation forces were shipped to Europe on a Royal Jordanian Airlines cargo flight, some turning up at Iraq's Embassy in Geneva. 
Asked whether Saddam's agents were still salting away money, including assets looted from Kuwait, he said, "I would judge that is the case, yes.". 
Montana management .was set up by Barzan Ibrahim, Sad­dam's half brother, the Finan­cial Times quoted an Iraqi of­ficial as saying. The official was not identified in the story. 
DISTRICT 3 Miquiabas 456 Vera 283 Other 75 
to Peralez's 261. 

Controversy has surrounded the district one race. In an arti­cle in yesterday's Observer, Peralez claimed that his cam­paign was sabotaged when his posters were removed from Pangborn, Morrissey, and Alumni Halls. 
Peralez has been outspoken 

DISTRICT 4 Wilson 
(l-"'CONTESliD) 
DISTRICT 5 Gordon 71 Harknett 68 Sharkey 60 Folgia 45 Guilbault 43 Espino 30 Other 18 
The Observer/Bren<m Reg<r~ against Students United for Re­spect (SUFR), and the posters in question claimed the organi­zation a "special interest group which has denounced Notre Dame in the local and national media." 
"My primary motive is to be a fair and equal voice," said Peralez after the election re-
TUESDAY. March 26, 1991 

Better grad. program to improve undergrad 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
The University of Notre Dame believes by strengthening the caliber of the graduate pro­gram, that the quality of un­dergraduate education will im­prove as well, according to Pro­fessor Nathan Hatch, vice president for advanced studies. 
Hatch, along with Rev. Ed­
ward "Monk" Malloy, president 
of the University and Professor 
Francis Castellino, dean of the 
College of Sciences, discussed 
the role of the graduate student 
teaching and researching at 
Notre Dame during a lecture 
Monday evening. 
According to Hatch, the Uni­versity is facing the new chal­lenge of bringing the quality of the graduate level education up to that of the level of education that an undergraduate receives at Notre Dame. 
"When receiving a graduate level education, it is imperative to learn both how to teach as well as how to research," he said. "When giving a graduate level education, Notre Dame feels the responsibility of train­ing teachers and researchers of the next generation of aca­demic scholars." 
Hatch believes Notre Dame is in the position to build a quality graduate program because the foundation has already been laid during the past 20 years. 

"Notre Dame has worked im­proving the faculty. The Uni­versity did so by improving the salaries of professors as well as decreasing the teaching loads. This has attracted an outstanding junior and senior faculty," he said. 
"Now we are striving to the building of research laborato­ries. We see the University in­creasing the infer structure for suits were announced. "I just want to point out that Billy Allen has voted for Students United For Respect through the NAACP. I would be a vote of reason." 
While campaigning in Dillon Hall last night around 11 p.m., Allen said he spotted Peralez hanging up posters reading, "That S.U.F.R. guy from Alumni vs. Paul of Dillon Hall." 
Allen said he asked Peralez what he was doing, and asked that the posters be removed be­cause the information on them was incorrect. 
Allen stressed that he is not a member of SUFR, and said that he did not, as a student senator this year, ever take part in any vote regarding SUFR. 
"The signs have been removed totally," Peralez responded after the incident occurred. He explained that he took them down immediately after the conversation with Allen. 
The posters were "definitely 
see ELECTIONS/page 8 
graduate research," Hatch 
added. 
As a Catholic research uni­
versity, Hatch wants to see that 
values are freely explored. 
"The religious component at 
Notre Dame should play a 
role," he said. 
Finally, "Graduate students 
should expect personal atten­
tion; this is a face to face uni­
versity," Hatch said. 
Malloy feels that the graduate 
level at Notre Dame should im­
prove as the graduate stipend 
increases. 
"One of the greatest problems is that many of the Notre Dame money-giving alumni only par­ticipated in the undergraduate program at Notre Dame, there­fore giving only to the under­graduate program. Tuition and endowment provides for the undergraduate program. Research programs are more expensive," he said. 
Malloy said Notre Dame does not have the funds to research every area; therefore the Uni­versity has focused on particu­lar areas and will broaden at the graduate level as the funds allow. 
According to Malloy, as rc searching costs continue to rise, public universities will no longer have enough funds to spread out research. There­fore, these universities will suf­fer from cutbacks, possibly losing students to smaller, growing graduate programs, such as that at Notre Dame, he said. 

Malloy also stressed the graduate student not only as a teacher and researcher, but as a student as well. "Becoming a graduate student requires fi­nancial, social and personal sacrifices," he said, "It re­quires one to reevaluate oneself 
see GRAD/page 8 



I,--· 
I INSIDE COLUMN 
FORECAST:

I 
~p_ag~e__2------------------------------------------------~r~h~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r____________________________________r~u~e~s~d~ay~,~M~a~r~c~h~2~6~,~19~9~1 
Quasimodo should be ND mascot 
Freshman year was pretty------­rough. I couldn't figure out why there weren't any books in the Bookstore (only shot glasses and facial tattoos). I never did fmd my French class (subsequently, my grasp of the language Paige Smoron 
never progressed beyond Assistant Accent my high school Edjtor memorization of the "Hail Mary"). And I'll never forget the day the Notre Dame mystique was irreparably shattered for me. I was mercilessly informed that there was no hunchback here. Indeed, hardly anyone even limps. I'm sure I'm not alone in this tragic 
misunderstanding. How many of you listen to Sacred Heart chime the Alma Mater and mentally envision a magnificent, hulking, swinging creature up in the bell tower? How many of you are here on false pretenses? To prevent any further confusion, I read Victor Hugo's "The Hunchback of Notre Dame," and learned that the reason it doesn't sell nearly as well as "God, Country,· Notre Dame" is be~ause it's actually based on that other Notre Dame, a less popular university in France, famous only for its Alchemy Institute. And, of course, for its grotesque (but well­meaning) hunchback, who apparently spent his time (in between ringing largish bells) pouring molten lead on the heads of peasants. The guy had style. So what are we doing with a weenie leprechaun? My proposal (Will you marry me?) is that we dump the annoying green dwarf and latch onto the hunchback as our new mascot. While I realize it will be difficult to fmd something to rhyme with "Quasimodo" in the Fight Song, I feel strongly that such a move will ultimately be beneficial to the Notre Dame community.We must cast off the tinge of ethnic stereotypes. "The Fightin' Irish" blatantly and ignorantly promotes a harmful image of an entire nationality. What's next? Where will the malevolent slurs end? "The Irritable Italians?" "The Grouchy Greeks?" I could go on, but I'll refrain. Oh, I can't. "The Testy Turks?" "The Resentful Russians?" "The Belligerent Brits?" "The Sullen Sri Lankans .... ?" Besides, I have it on good authority (someone who did find their French class) that "Notre Dame du Lac" is far from Irish, so wouldn't it be more appropriate to go with something like "The Feisty French?" Nay. With the hunchback as a mascot or team name, we would be taking advantage of a natural association, we would be culturally correct, and we would we be far more intimidating. And with a genuine freak of nature and reject of society, just think of how the tourist trade will boom. The commercial possibilities are endless. Quasimodo could moonlight giving campus tours. Instead of genial shamrock facial tattoos, the Bookstore could hawk stick­on warts. 
.. 

Today s Staff: 
Accent News Paige Smoron Ann Marie Hartman Jerry Hamilton Meredith McCullough Michael Krause 
VIewpoint Sports 
Brian Stalter Dave McMahon Barb Moran Anthony King Cheryl Moser 
Scoreboard Production 
Mark McGrath Wendy Cunningham Karen Newlove 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Earthquake hits Northern China 
• BEIJING -A strong earthquake struck a coal mining region west of Beijing early Tuesday, injuring more than 100 people, the government said. The quake struck at 2:02 a.m. (noon Monday EST) and measured 
5.8 on the Richter scale, said Gu Yongxin at the State Seismology Bureau in Beijing. He said many homes collapsed, but said be did not have detailed information on casualties or damage.The quake was centered near Datong, a mining center of about 1 million people that i9 about 170 miles from Beijing. 
NATIONAL 
Teenagers arrested for vandalism 
• FALlBROOK, Calif.-Two Hispanic teenagers were arrested following a rock-throwing incident outside the home of a white supremacist who has been ordered to pay $12.5 million in connection with a racial killing. Tom Metzger told sheriff's deputies the boys had vandalized his mailbox and were throwing rocks at the house outside San Diego when he confronted them Sunday night.Tbe juveniles, ages 17 and 13, were arrested for investigation of vandalism, being drunk in public and resisting arrest. They were released to the custody of their parents. Their names were withheld because of their ages. 
LaW~ t}'~ff behalf of fire victims 
OF INTEREST 
• 
An Introduction to Resume Expert presentation will be given today from 3:30-4:30 p.m. in the Career and Placement Services Conference Room. The computerized resume preparation system will be described and detailed instructions will be given on bow to use the program to complete and enhance your resume. 

• 
Adult Children of Alcoholics (ACOA) can meet tonight for an informal workshop in the Hesburgh Library 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 25, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYIE INDEX 197.17 Million 201.61 UrP COMPOSITE 367.48  ... A tr 0.90  0.48  
DOW JONEIINDUST2,864.60  RIALI •  5.69  
PRECIOUS NETALI  
GOLD-{}  $4.30 to$  359.40/oz.  
SILVER {}  4.1¢ to$ 3.926/oz.  

Cloudy and warm today with a 50 percent chance of showers. Warm tomorrow, with highs in the 60s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H l Athens 72 48 Atlanta 83 48 Berlin 52 43 Boston 40 35 
.· • 

I 
Chicago 65 33 Dallas-Ft.Worth 76 55 Denver 70 37 Detroit 59 35 Honolulu 82 66 Houston 83 64 Indianapolis 471 33 London 48 41 Los Angeles 59 50 Madrid 57 39 Miami Beach 80 72 Moscow 43 36 New Orleans 83 55 New York 53 43 Paris 50 43 
Philadelphia 51 43 Portland. Ore. 49 35 Rome 64 46 St. Louis 81 51 
: • 
.. 

San Francisco 55 45 South Bend 64 29 Tokyo 61 50 
62 46 
the lease-holder was filed in state court by 34 private lawyers -some of whom represent more than one vic­tim -and Robert Black, public administrator for the Bronx borough. On March 25, 1990, Julio Gonzalez al­legedly set frre to the club with a dollar's worth of ga­soline. He is scheduled to appear in court April19, when a trial date will be set. 
CAMPUS Computer seminar to help grammar 
• NOTRE DAME-A seminar on "Using Computers to Check Your Grammar" will take place Wednesday at 
12:15 p.m. in the Board Room of Hayes-Healy Center. The seminar, led by Kevin Misiewicz, associate professor of accountancy and Barry Keating, professor of finance, will concern the operation of grammar checking computer programs and propose ways these might be used to improve business communication. The seminar is sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Business Communication. 
Trip planned to Art Institute of Chicago 
• NOTRE DAME-The friends of the Snite Museum of Art are sponsoring a trip to the Art Institute of Chicage on April 17 to view "High and Low: Modern Art and Popular Culture." High and Low emphasizes the bonds between the world of individual artists, such as Picasso and Rosenquist, and the world of popular culture. To coincide with the viewing of this exhibit, John Shields, education coordinator, will present a preparatory lecture on this show April 11 at 4:15 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. For more information call239-5516. 
Auditorium from 6:30-8:00 p.m. 
• 
The Recyclln' Irish will have a mandatory meeting for dorm representatives and anyone interested tonight at 7:30p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 

• 
Shenanigans' spring concert will be held tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is free. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1909: Russian troops invaded Persia to support Muhammad Ali as shah in place of constitutional government. 

• 
In 1942: Nazis began sending Jews to Auschwitz in Poland. 

• 
In 1979: Egypt and Israel signed a formal treaty, ending 30 years of war. 

• 
Ten years ago: Carol Burnett won $1.6 million in a libel lawsuit against The National Enquirer, which printed a gossip column depicting her as intoxibated at an encounter with Henry Kissinger. 


lilt:: UU:>t::IVt::l

Tuesday, March 26, 1991 page 3 
Bostwick resolves proper hygiene for 1991-92 
By DAVID KINNEY Assistant News Editor 
Student Senate headlined its light-hearted final meeting un­der 1990-91 officers with a resolution calling for proper dental hygiene to become a campus-wide priority. 
Lisa Bostwick, district 2 sen­ator who submitted the resolu­tion, emphasized that uit's defi­nitely an Issue that all the members of the Notre Dame community can take to heart." 
The document, which was passed unanimously, operates on the premise that poor dental hygiene unegatlvely impacts the Interfacing of members of the Notre Dame family and is con­trary to the mission of the Uni­versity." 
The Bostwick resolution calls for the issue to be addressed by appropriate bodies, including the University Ad Hoc Parking Committee and the Sophomore Literary Fest, that training in proper hygiene become a part of Hesldence Hall Staff Training and other orientation pro­
grams. 
Finally, the resolution de­mands that 1991-92 be desig­nated the Year of Proper Dental Hygiene. 
"I think this would greatly Improve male-female rela­tions," Student Body President Hob Pasin added. 
In other senate business: 
•1991-92 Treasurer John Coffey raised the Issue of the nine percent tuition increase and six percent room and board increase next year. Coffey questioned whether the administration is really still concerned with undergraduate financing. 
ulf is keeps going like that," he said, "you're looking at-in a couple of years-a lot of people, even in this room, won't be able to come here or it's going to be an extreme sacrifice on their family." 
Coffey pointed out that NO will not have enough students to fill all the new buildings on campus. 
u Are we really getting our tu­ition money's worth? Are we getting teachers that are con­cerned about students?" he asked. 
•The 
senators approved the Student Union Board Executive Council for 1991-92. Lynn Ramsay will take over as board manager; Beth Wittman will become director of program­ming; Heather Burns has been selected for director of market­ing; Kristina Hannam will serve as director of relations; and Chris Weismantel will take over as controller. 

•The 
topics for the Board of Trustees reports were an­nounced and approved. The first report uwill examine the status of teaching as Notre Dame moves to become a premier research university," while the second will examine volunteer activity at NO. 



APPI'ob 

Back home 
Released Kuwaiti prisoner of war embraces a relative as he arrives in Kuwait City's Surra neighborhood Sunday. Zaid was among another batch of POWs released by Iraq who returned home. 

ND prof. elected fellow to AAAS 

~ SPRING 1991..___ ~ MUSIC REGISTER 
I • I ~ ) 
~ THE FOLLOWING MUSICIANS ARE ~ ~INTERESTED IN FORMING/JOINING ~ AN ON CAMPUS BAND: 
Steve Brown Guitarist, Vocalist 
x1603 

Gary Chirhart Guitarist 

x1161 

Good luck to all bands and musicians. 

Courtesy of S.U.B. MUSIC 
By ALICIA REALE 
News Writer 
Robert Scheidt, professor of chemistry and biochemistry at Notre Dame, was recently elected a fellow of The Ameri­can Association for the Ad­vancement of Science (AAAS). 
There are approxi'Yiately 140,000 members of this orga­nization and only five percent receive this honor. 
Scheidt said he was elected fellow as a result of his more than twenty years of extensive publication. According to Scheidt, members receive fel­lowships in reward for distinct contributions to the scientific field. 
Scheidt's research attempts to umake a variety of different metalloporphyrin sy~~ems and determine their molecular structures and try to relate those structures to -other chem­ical and physical properties," he said. 

Robert Scheidt 
According to Scheidt, his re­search explores complexities not understood as recently as twenty years ago. His general goal is to explore ueverything there is to understand" about the important biological molecule metalloporphyrins. Scheidt said he studies these molecules by relating struc­tures to properties. 
From your Catbutt friends! Love, Cyn, Mark, Stan, Joe, Kate, and the rest of the gang. 
The advancement of science Is the organizational goal of the AAAS, according to Scheidt. uThere are certain questions one feels compelled to answer simply because they're there," he said. 
The AAAS publishes a weekly magazine, Science, which re­ports what is happening in science over a wide range of topics, said Scheidt. His new fellowship will be announced in a future issue of the magazine. 
Scheidt has been a professor at Notre Dame since 1970. He received his bachelor's degree in chemistry at the University of Missouri at Columbia in 1964. He then received a doc­torate at Michigan and went on to do his post-doctoral research work at Cornell University. This year he is teaching honor's general chemistry. 
Scheidt has been invited by the University of Paris to guest lecture at the University this summer. 
a 

THE NATIONAL COLLEQE NEWSPAPER Joins wlh the Obrenerin hoping for the quk::k and safe rerum ofour loYed ones in !he Persian Gulf. 

1.....1 llloU ll.,ll~olll........l lnl<lh...•n.tOIIMN 
tot7li"'IJ""•"''"''"'""'"' 
·~ lllo I n•lnl '-""'' I<Mr. 
"""...il·n•·•""'",. 

Ifthe pressdidn't tell us,who would? 
TnJCI rnmcd 1n1•...m.11nn tN\ Lhc: nlk: tllo~lfn' rn·~,•nd h.~ II protret' \tl\lr rtJhl'> '"hi dt'o('U .. ~ In\ rn:t• !'Ill''" .....U(' tallttw I ,,..., ... mcndrnrnt fcntC'r II l·RIXI·!\-IHMIU 
6 1991
~---.:.........;;c-·~-s-tn_e_r-,s-"D_a_n_c_e_s_W_it_h_W_Th_•;-;~-~-s-"_s_w_e_e_p_s_O_s_c_a_;"-·~......;.._·jg-M•t,-ch;­
· ­
I LOS ANGELES (AP) ­
' "Dances With Wolves," Kevin Costner's three-hour Western that was initially scorned by Hollywood, dominated the Academy Awards on Monday night with seven Oscars, includ­ing best picture and director. 
Kathy Bates, the demented recluse in "Misery," and Jeremy Irons, the sinister Claus Von Bulow of "Reversal of Fortune," won Academy Awards for best leading performances. 
"Dances," which had led with 12 nominations, also won for sound, original score, film edit­ing, cinematography and Michael Blake's screenplay adapted from his own novel. 
''I'll never forget what hap­pened here tonight," an exul­tant Costner said as he held up the best picture trophy he shared with co-producer Jim Wilson. 
Costner also won an Oscar for his debut as director in charge of the big-budget spectacle with Sioux subtitles, which became a box-office and critical sensation after being laughed at by the industry. 
"I'd like to thank the academy -I've been waiting a long time to say that!" said a teary Bates, an upset winner who was a relative unknown in films despite a long stage career. Most observers had predicted that either Anjelica Huston or Joanne Woodward would walk off with the prize. 
"This is great!" Irons said. He thanked his wife, who is in England, saying "I wish you were there to carry this, be­cause you helped me win it." 
Whoopi Goldberg, the fake psychic who surprises herself by contacting the dead in "Ghost," and Joe Pesci, the maniacal mobster of "GoodFellas," won Oscars for supporting performances. 
"Ever since I was a little kid I wanted this," said an emotional Goldberg, who had struggled since receiving a best actress nomination for her screen de­but in the 1985 film "The Color Purple." 
"When I was a little kid, I lived in the projects. You are the people I watched. The peo­ple who made me want to be an actor," she told the star-packed crowd. 
She became only the second black woman to win an Oscar and the first since Hattie Mc­Daniel was honored for the 1939 film "Gone With the Wind." "Ghost" also won an Oscar for original screenplay. 
Pesci was much more sub­dued, saying "It's my privilege, thank you," and walking off. 
Comedian Billy Crystal emceed the show in style, starting off with a hilarious musical tribute to the five best picture nominees for the 63rd annual ceremonies, which took place at the Shrine Auditorium and was televised by ABC-TV. 

"Dick Tracy," Warren Beatty's big-budget detective adventure, won prizes for makeup and art direction and song. The best costume award went to the French period drama, "Cyrano de Bergerac," and the sound effects editing prize went to "The Hunt for Red October." 
The Oscar for best documen­tary feature went to "American Dream" and the documentary short subject award went to "Days ofWaiting." 
"Journey of Hope," a Swiss movie, won the award as best foreign film. 
Several special Academy nods were presented: the Irving G. Thalberg award to producers Richard Zanuck and David Brown, an honorary award to actress Myrna Loy and a special achievement Oscar to actress Sophia Loren. 
Loren was on hand to receive her award, but the 85-year-old Loy has been ill and had to ac­cept the honor via satellite from her apartment in Manhattan. 
Presentation of the best orig­inal song had a tragic overtone. 
Country singer Reba McEntire sang one nominated song, ''I'm Checkin' Out" from "Postcards From the Edge." She had with­drawn from the show after seven members of her band and her road manager were killed in a private plane crash on March 16. 
But the widow of her road manager, Jim Hammon, per­suaded the singer to perform as scheduled, reasoning, "Jim worked all these years to get you where you would sing on the Oscars." 
Campus Ministry and You (Z\MPUSMINISTRY  
Holy Week This week most of the Churches of the Christian Tradition celebrate Holy Week, the week commemorating the death and resurrection of Jesus. The week begins with a reading of the passion-the story leading up to the crucifixion -on Sunday, followed by a reenactment of the Lord's supper on Thursday-the meal at which Jesus instituted what has become the primary religious celebration of the Christian faith-the Eucharist. Probably the biggest difference between this Eucharistic celebration and those held on other days is the ceremony of the washing of feet -an act by which Jesus made clear that he had no intention of establishing a church built on hierarchical power but rather of establishing one based on service and humility. Lenten Penance Service Tuesday, March 26, 1991Friday is the celebration of the crucifixion and death of Jesus. Key to this celebration are the questions: "He saved others; why can't he save himself?" and "If He is 10:00pm Sacred Heart Church truly the Son of God, why can't he come down from the cross?" Opportunity for individual confession following the service. The answers are not easy, but are central to all of c.hristian belief: a Christian accepts that which comes The mystery of Christian faith is being celebrated at h1s or h~r way in life, always believing that it points Notre Dame this week as follows: beyond Itself. A death by crucifixion feels and looks terminal, but it isn't. It only leads to what comes next. Holy Thursday SPM Presider: Rev. Carl Ebey, C.S.C. Homilist: Rev. William Dohar, C.S.C. What comes next is celebrated at the Easter Vigil on Good Friday Saturday evening and the Easter Services on Sunday: 3PM Presider: Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C. eternal life. Homilist: Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. Holy Saturday 9PM Presider: Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. Simply put, this week is the most significant of the Homilist: Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C.Christian year because it crystallizes the essence of Christianity. If one seeks eternal life, one need only Easter Sunday SAM Presider: Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C submit to life on life's terms. We change what can be changed to conform with the will of God (justice and lOAM Presider: Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. peace for all) and accept that which can't be changed­no matter how weak it might make us appear. Even if 11:45AM Presider: Rev. Stephen Newton, C.S.C. that leads to death, we trust it is full of meaning and hope and leads to oneness with God. For the Christian, oneness with God is the ultimate goal.  

Tuesday, March 26, 1991 

Changing social attitudes create ethical dilemmas 
By PAUL WASINGER 
News Writer 
According to Jean Porter, professor of theology at Notre Dame, the recent dilemma over medical ethics can be attributed to current medical techniques combined with wide-spread changes In social attitudes. 
In a lecture titled "New Chal­
lenges for Morality Medical 
Ethics In the 90s," Porter 
blamed the more advanced 
medical techniques that have 
emerged In the past 20 years 
for pushing former ethical 
guidelines to their limits and 
forcing new developments in 
moral theory. 
"Until relatively recently medical ethics, such as it was, was extremely simple; so sim­ple that no one would have re­ally thought of teaching a whole course just on medical ethics much less, as is common today, going to a whole Ph.d program and specializing just in medical ethics," said Porter. 
However, the vast expansion of a physlcan's capacity to save life ushered in new moral ques­tions, she explained. 
"Increasingly, we found our­selves in a position of being technically able to save or at least prolong life, In the case of people who were very, very sick to begin with, and we begin to wonder whether we really want to do this," Porter said. 
Because of changes in social views, Porter said doctors are now faced not only with ques­tions of whether or not to care for critically ill patients but also with the question of who counts as u moral subject. 
"Even If we start out with what counts with a good or a harm, we then still have to ask to whom are we trying to do good and avoid harm." 
In addition to these changes, 
Porter also blames the ethical 
crisis on the growing financial 
crunch associated with medical 
care. "At the level of social 
structure a host of questions 
arise about who should pay for 
medical care, how it should be 
allocated, and how funds for 
research should be allocated," 
she said 

Porter believes that the 
greatest challenges to medical 
ethics today come not from the 
developments in medicine but 
in the developments of moral 
theory. 

She sees the current trend 
towards dealing with ethical is­
sues on a case orientated ap­
proach, "ethics based on reflec­
tion," as working well in homo­
geneous communities yet 
breaking down in not so homo­
geneous communities. 
For this reason, Porter be­
lieves that it is a mistake to do 
much with medical ethics as a 
discipline. "Medical ethics as a 
discipline should self-destruct, 
if it has not done so already." 
She instead said that because 
there are no easy solutions with 
respect to these difficult ethical 
decisions, doctors should move 
towards a greater cohesiveness 
in moral decision-making. 
"Make a point of including di­vergent voices. Voices from dif­ferent socioeconomic classes and different races," she ad­vised, "And try, at least, not to force consensus where consen­sus is not warranted." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Provost Office, University Academic Code of Honor Committee, and the Student Academic Council Committee in the ongoing series on Profes­sional Ethics. 
Join The Observer, more than a job, it's an adventure! 
Fi<OM--­





MARIGOLD MARKET 
0Rr:::'€R AN EASTER BASKt;:T AND LE'T US P'ROV\t::=:>E.._ TlfE.. --rr<:±;;;A.TS ! 
.. EASTE.R ~.e=Abs 
+ ~.PE"C:.IAL ~+k:?COLAT'E:' EG6S 
A,ND lf<uFFL-ES .. MRS. PF<:~ l'-.IDA'BLE ~ APPLE-S · 
1 he Observer page 5 
Breen-Phillips Hall resident exercises her right to vote during the Student Senate elections yesterday. 

Kremlin forbids public rallies 
MOSCOW (AP) -President 
Mikhail Gorbachev's Cabinet on 
Monday banned rallies in 
Moscow for the next three 
weeks, fearing that unhappi­
ness over price hikes and a no­
confidence vote on Gorbachev's 
chief rival could boil over in vio­
lence. 
Boris Yeltsin's position as chairman of the Russian Feder­ation parliament is to be tested at an extraordinary session of that parliament due to start Thursday. 
Several groups, led by the anti-Communist movement Democratic Russia, have scheduled a mass demonstra­tion to support Yeltsin on Thursday. Moscow City Council, controlled by pro-democracy forces, has already granted a permit. 
March 10 drew about 500,000 people to Moscow and tens of thousands more into streets in 
The "Life of the Mind" lecture series will conclude with a Saint 
other cities, the biggest demon­
strations since the 1917 Bol­
shevik Revolution. 
Hard-line members of the 
Russian republic's parliament, 
which is known formally as the 
Congress of People's Deputies, 
called the session after -Yeltsin 
demanded that Gorbachev re­
sign in an appearance on na­
tional TV last month. 
Yeltsin's plea came as Cor­bachev was attempting to muster support for last week's national referendum to pre­serve the union. The two lead­ers each accused each other of fomenting civil war and trying to expand personal power with the referendum, which passed with nearly 77 percent of the vote. 
Monday's order for the Inte­rior Ministry, KGB and other security agencies to prevent any gatherings on city streets from March 26 to April 15 went be­
Mary's Alumnae -Student Con­ference, "Genesis 3," the week­end of April 5-7. 
The conference will feature active discussion of the connec­
yond a previous ban and showed clear apprehension that demonstrations could turn vio­lent or threaten government authority. 
An emergency Cabinet meeting approved a resolution banning all marches, demonstrations, picketing and rallies, the state news agency Tass said. 
Yeltsin's future is riding on the no-confidence vote. He crit­icized the March 17 referendum as "ambiguous" but welcomed Russian voters' approval of a second question that created a new Hussian presidency. 
Many commentators speculate that Yeltsin will run for the new presidency if he loses the no­confidence vote. His title now is chairman of the Russian par­liament, although most Soviets refer to him as president. 
tion between college life and the world beyond. A select group of twenty alumnae will share their post-graduate insights and the effect of their Saint Mary's College 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~experiences. Students will 

FRENCH SPANISH 
I 

Mandatory Placement Exams in French and Spanish will be given on Wednesday, April 3 and Thursday, April 4 respectively. Students who have studied French or Spanish in higb school but have not yet taken a course in these languages at Notre Dame must take a Placement Exam prior to registration. 
Sign up sheets and further information 
are available in the LANGUAGE LAB OFFICE Room 251 O'Shaughnessy. 
Sign up closes on March 28 at 5 pm. 
participate in small group dis­cussions with the alumnae, providing an opportunity for the discovery of the value of a Saint Mary's education and the quest for intellectual growth. 
Students interested in apply­ing should contact Patrick White, associate dean of Fac­ulty, at 117 LeMans Hall, 284­4584 or Karol Dlouhy at 64 LeMans Hall. Brief applications are due March 28. 
Abused children are helpless.Unless you help. 
Write: Nat1onal Comm1ttee for Prevention of Child Abuse. Box 2866. Chicago. Ill. 60690 

If what happened on your inside happened on your outside, would you still smoke? 
~~~~National Society to ~~~~Prevent Blindness 
For information on glaucoma, ca//1-800-221-3004, National Center for Sight, a service of Prevent Blindness, weekdays 9 to 4, Centra/Standard Time. 



page 6 
Hampshire professors dismissed 
AMHERST, Mass. (AP) -Two professors in this college town contend there is such a fervor at their school to mix social issues with curricula that they were booted out for not being "politically correct." 
Hampshire College adminis­trators say Jeff Wallen and Norman Holland were denied reappointment only because they were ineffective teachers. But the two professors pin their dismissal to criticism from colleagues that they took a "Eurocentric" approach to courses and weren't committed enough to Third World studies. 
"It came up in letters to my file. These accusations are in writing," said Holland, a Panamanian-born assistant professor of Hispanic literature. 
Hampshire, which began 20 

years ago as an experiment in 
alternative education, encour­
ages students to build a Third 
World aspect into their courses 
and degree plans under some­
thing called the Third World 
Expectation. 
''I'm totally in favor (of the 

Third World Expectation)," said 
Holland, who is fmishing up his 
fmal semester of teaching. "I've 
never been at all opposed, and 
strongly supported it, not only 
personally but in my courses." 
Wallen, who teaches compar­ative literature, said he was criticized for using the Jaco­bite-English conflict in a Walter Scott novel as an example of imperialistic conflict. Ballots cast against his contract re­newal contained written criti­cisms of his lack of Third World commitment, he said. 
"First of all, I teach European literature, and second of all, I don't teach European literature simply as a story of colonialism and imperialism. Some people want it to be as simple as that," said Wallen, currently on a year's sabbatical and living near Boston. 
Across town at the University of Massachusetts, a new ap­proach to basic writing came after a 1986 campus brawl he­tween black New York Mets fans and white Red Sox fans. 
The University of Mas­sachusetts writing program consists of two different classes, Basic Writing and Col­lege Writing. About 4,000 first­year students enroll in the _ courses each year, with five percent taking Basic Writing and the rest going directly to the more advanced course. 
Basic Writing students select two hooks from a list that in­cludes such diverse topics as 
"Brothers and Keepers," an account of the lives of two black brothers, and "The Parish and the Hill," a story of Irish immigrants in Mas­sachusetts. Other titles include "The Lost Language of Cranes," an account of three men coming to terms with their homosexuality, and "The Joy Luck Club," vignettes of four Chinese women and their American-horn daughters. 
In the second course, stu­dents write and discuss their work, and teachers can intro­duce notes of cultural diversity by bringing in such items as a flier about a campus seminar on racism or a newspaper ar­ticle. 
---~­
1ne uoserver 


AP Photo

New Harvard president 
Former Provost of Princeton University Neil Rudenstine smiles during a press conference Sunday at Harvard University after being named the new president of the University. Rudenstine will replace Derek Bok who will be stepping down at the end of June. 
Palm Springs spring break lacks traditional chaos 
PALM SPRINGS, Calif. (AP) ­The first weekend of spring break in Palm Springs was rel­atively tame this year, with po­lice reporting a dramatic drop in arrests and none of the ma­jor disturbances of previous years. 
"It's been really quiet," Sergeant Ron Starrs said. "We did not get the crowds we ex­pected." 
About 80 people were ar­rested Friday afternoon through Sunday morning, mostly for public drunkenness and drunken driving, police said. Starrs said,the number of arrests was down 50 percent from last year. 
Students from all over the region pour in for the annual celebration, sometimes leading to rioting and deaths. 
In 1969, students rampaged during rock concerts. In 1986, 600 youths threw rocks and bottles through windows and tore clothing off women. 
Officials of this staid desert resort attributed the unusually docile crowds this year to in­creased security, co1d weather, new bans on nudity, and con­crete barriers along the main street to discourage cruising. 

Tuesday, March 26, 1991 
Tuition increase to ensure 'excellence' 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has announced a 1991-92 un­dergraduate tuition increase of 9 percent, or $1, 115, to a total of $13, 505. The rate of in­crease is lower than the aver­age 9.6 at the University over the last five years. 
In a letter to parents of re­turning undergraduates and 1991 freshmen, University President Father Edward Mal­loy, said the five-year budgeting plan of the University calls for the rate of increase to be re­duced further." He attributed the increase for 1991-92 to "an expensive word: excellence." 
The letter cited faculty salaries in the top 20 percent of the nation's universities, a five­year, $27-million campus com­puting improvement, and ex­pansion of the Arts and Letters College faculty. 
Notre Dame's trustees have also approved a hike of 6 per­cent, or $200, in the room and board fee, which will now aver­age $3,575. the overall cost of an undergraduate residential student will increase $1,315, or 
8.3 percent, to $17,080. 

Tuition for Notre Dame's Graduate School will go up $1,115 to $13,385. In the Law School, tuition will be up the same amount to $14,095 and the M.B.A. program will see a $1,420 increase to $14,095. 
In his letter, Malloy presented figures on current costs at comparable highly selective, private institutions of higher learning which show Notre Dame to be ranked extremely low-33rd among 35 colleges and universities-in combined tuition, room and board ex­penses. 
Join The Observer, it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

Day Editor 
For more information contact Dannika 239-7471 or 283-4624 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Clerk 
For more information contact Julie at 239-6900 or 283-1291 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

Business Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 27, to Monica Yant. For further information, call 
(239-5303). 

Cascading rain AP Photo 
Three children play in water cascading down the steps of an alley in an Amman neighborhood Sunday. This waterfall is the result of heavy rains and floods which hit the desert-like area during the past two days, drowning five people and injuring 80. 
The Observer page 7 





Arab base to be established 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP)­
Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf 
says the United States is closer 
than ever to establtshing a 
permanent land base on Arab 
soil-a goal governments in the 
region had blocked for many 
years. 
The U.S. commander in the 
Persian Gulf War told reporters 
Sunday that the base would not 
include American ground 
forces. 
He also said that the Ameri­
can troops who remain in the 
gulf will go home after a per­
manent cease-fire is signed 
with Iraq. 
A report in a U.S. newspaper 
today said that American ar­
mored forces drove deeper into 
Iraq over the weekend, but the 
Pentagon said that was not 
true. 
In another development, Iraq's government newspaper, Al-Jumouriya, on Sunday de­nounced the cease-fire terms set by the allies as aimed "at usurping Iraq's sovereignty, mortgaging its will and holding Its wealth hostage." 
The U.S.-led coalition, which halted hostilities last month after driving Iraq from Kuwait, says it will not sign a perma­nent cease-fire accord unless Baghdad destroys its chemical, biological and nuclear arsenals and agrees never to resume production of the weapons, among other conditions. 
Prisoner releases, however, continued. A Red Cross official in Riyadh said 1,000 Iraqi pris­oners of war traveled to the Saudi border post of Arar on Sunday and were handed over to Iraqi ofncials. He spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Also Sunday, hundreds of 
Kuwaiti soldiers who spent 
months in Iraqi prisons re­
turned home to their war­
wrecked nation, where they 
were greeted by weeping rela­
tives and celebratory bursts of 
machine-gun fire. 
Since Kuwait was liberated on Feb. 27, some U.S. forces have begun helping the Kuwaitis rebuild their nation. Other American soldiers are occupying part of southern Iraq, where they are keeping an eye on Saddam Hussein's troops. 
Schwarzkopf said the soldiers are not expected to remain in Iraq after a permanent cease­fire. But a permanent truce has been complicated by the rebel­lions by Kurds in northern Iraq and Shiite Muslims in the coun­try's south. 
Schwarzkopf said U.S. logis­tics troops could be in the gulf as long as eight to 10 months to help load up equipment, but that the vast majority of sol­diers will be home before then. 
Nearly 100,000 of the 540,000 American troops sent to the gulf in Operation Desert Shield have departed, the Cen­tral Command says. 
The command, now based in Riyadh, plans to return soon to its headquarters in Tampa, Florida. But Schwarzkopf said Sunday, "There's a possibility we will be moving a forward headquarters element of Cen­tral Command-not the en­tirety ... someplace over here on the gulf." 
"But's there's an awful lot of negotiations that have to go on, the locations have to be ac­cepted and all the arrange­ments have to be made ... we're certainly much closer to that now than we've ever been be­fore." 
The Washington Post, mean­while, reported in today's edi­tions that U.S. Army troops have driven deeper into Iraq. It said heavy armored units drove 60 miles north to the Euphrates River valley over the weekend in a major repositioning appar­ently aimed at intimidating Saddam. 
Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams denied the report, saying the movement was part of the repositioning of troops 
· that has been going on in recent days. 
As was reported last week, the Army's VII Corps is taking over territory that was captured by the XVIII Corps, elements of which are leaving Iraq to return to the United States. 
The New York Times, quoting 
U.S. 
and Bahraini officials, to­day reported that the United States was close to signing an agreement with Bahrain to base part of the command in the island nation off Saudi Arabia. 

U.S. 
ofncials had been indi­cating for months that Bahrain was the desired location for a base, and a senior Pentagon of­ficial today confirmed that talks were under way to allow some representatives of the Central Command to remain in that nation. The official would not say how large the contingent might be. "It's not finished yet. We're still talking," the ofncial said. 


MAY SEMINARS  
NOTRE DAMEAPPALACHIAN PANAMASEMINAR SEMINARMay 12--18 May 11--18 WORKING SIDE BY SIDE THIS SEMINAR I-CREDIT THEOLOGY COURSE THIS SEMINAR I-CREDIT THEOLOGY COURSEIS: GRADEDS/U IS: GRADED S/UORIENTATION AND FOLLOW-UP ORIENTATION AND FOLLOW-UPDURING THE SEMESTER BREAK 9 DAYS IN PANAMAONE WEEK IN KENTUCKY SPANISH HELPFUL/NOT REQUIREDWORKING, LAUGHING, COST: PLANE PLUS PERSONALLEARNING COMMUNITY BUILDING INFORMA T/ON MARCH 27 7:30-8:00 PM  

NIGHT: Center for Social Concerns INFROMA T/ON MARCH 27-7:00-7:30 PM NIGHT: Center for Social Concerns APPLICATIONS: Available now at the Center for Social Concerns Applications due: APPLICA T/ON. Available now at the Center for 
APRIL 12
Social Concerns Applications are due: APRIL 12 
1he Observer 


Caffeine-chemo link 
page 8 
SECURITY BEAT 


Grad 
continued from page 1 
as a person. Many people drop out as they realize what is ex­pected a s a graduate student." 
Following Malloy, Castellino described the researching method of the science depart­ment at Notre Dame. This is done so by forming a hypothe­sis, testing that hypothesis, evaluating the results, and then forming a unified theory. He discussed the need to continue to learn through discussion, reading and interaction with others from specialized labora­tories. 
"Research, especially at the graduate level, requires vast amounts of resources; thus students must work with con­straints. Scientific methods are formally learned in lecture, lab and discussion. 
In the science department, the University does not give sole responsibility of undergraduate classes to graduate students, Castellino said. "We work on the unified university approach-undergraduate students, graduate students, and faculty all working together," he said. 
Hatch spoke on the responsi­bilities of teaching and re­searching among the humani­ties and social science depart­ments, "There is no inherent reason teaching and research are related," he said. 
"Teaching students while still being a graduate student, helps the graduate student learn what the profession is about," he said. 
"In humanities and social sciences, the research is much more on the individual level," Hatch said, "Research depends basically on the individual stu­dent's doctrinal dissertation." 
This lecture was last of a five part series sponsored by the Graduate Student Union. 


PHOENIX (AP)-Doctors said Monday they have found a way to figure out the safest and most effective dose of chemotherapy to treat cancer -by measuring the body's re­sponse to the caffeine in a cup of coffee. 
So far, the new technique works for only one experimen­tal cancer medicine, but scien­tists are looking for similar tests that will help them tailor treatment more precisely. 
The goal is to allow physi­cians to give people enough cancer medicine to destroy their tumors without triggering life-threatening side effects. 
Mark Ratain of the University of Chicago described his find­ings with the coffee test at a meeting of the American Cancer Society. 
"The important thing is that a simple test has turned out to be predictive of how toxic a drug will be," commented Daniel Ihde, deputy director of the National Cancer Institute. 
In other presentations at the meeting, doctors described preliminary results with two new weapons against cancer. One combines a poison with a normal protein to target cancer cells. The other combines anti­bodies with radioactive iso­topes. 
The coffee test will allow doctors to pick the best dose of amonafide, a promising exper­imental medicine that is being studied for use against cancer of the breast, uterus and prostate. 
"We would like to maximize the dose to maximize re-
Elections 
continued from page 1 
not approved," according to Matt Caito, chairman of the student government Election Committee. 
"I don't think it's (the posters) in the best judgement," Caito said. "It takes the campaign to a personal level, and it's not supposed to be mudslinging." 
Peralez said he believes his campaign is fair. "I've tried to run a clean campaign," he said, "But we are both pitted in a race that both of us want to 
win." 

"This is a campaign, and indiscretions will happen," Peralez said. 
Caito said that the campaign 
? ? ? ? 
~ 
0 

?? 
sponse," said Ratain. "We know that the more chemotherapy we give, the better the chance of benefit. We are limited by toxicity." 
Currently, doctors pick doses of chemotherapy based on the patients' height and weight. However, there are great dif­ferences in how people respond to amonafide, as there are to many other drugs. A dose that causes no side effects for one person may kill another. 
"The average patient does not exist," he said. "Everybody is more sensitive or less sensi­tive." 
Amonafide is broken down in the body through a process known as acetylation. People who are fast acetylators pro­duce high levels of a substance called N-acetyl-amonafide, which is highly toxic. 
Therefore, people who are slow acetylators should receive higher doses, and those who are fast acetylators should get less. But until recently, there was no way to figure this out in advance. 
Caffeine, the chemical that gives coffee its kick, is acety­lated the same way as amon­afide. So by using urine analysis that measures how quickly people break down the caffeine in a cup of coffee or a can of caffeinated cola, doctors can estimate how their bodies will respond to the cancer drug. 
"It appears that when the drug is given properly, the re­sponse rate can be quite high," Ratain said. 
In testing on 18 cancer pa­tients, he found that 11 were 
violation could be subject to 
penalties. He could not com­
ment any further until havingspoken with Peralez. 
Allen said that he is pleased with his campaign. He said that he thinks that he has cov-ered the issues well and has the ex­perience in student government which his opponent lacks. 
"I don't think that this is an issue of race," said Allen. "I'm not playing these games." 
"I think it is a case of who can do the best job," he said. 
William McDonald, another candidate from district one, re­ceived 14.7 percent of the votes. He said that he hopes that his supporters will now vote for Peralez. 
"I am not trying to be a sore loser, but I am kind of upset that my name was not on the 

? ~ ?? ? ? ? ? ? ~ 
Are you an Arts & Letters Major? Is there life after Notre Dame? 
? College of Rrts ond Sciences Cereer end Plecement Office
? 

Indieno Uniuersity -Bloomington
? 
0 

?? ~ "The Future of A 
? 

~ 
0 Wednesday, March 27, 1991 7:30p.m.
? 
? Library Auditorium ???? ?'V
• . . . 0 ?? ? ? ? ? ?-'V.,. ?? 
The tActmA will hA ""'"dod ann ovaUahl• 1 VCR thmunh th• . n. 
? Have you  been asking yourself  .. What  am  I going to do with  a  ?  
?.  To help find  Liberal Arts answers come  degree"? to the guest lecture by:  ?  
?  ?.  

1 WAYNE WALLRCE 1 
How to start your law career 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
Mter taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top la;N firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
" 





!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl CENTER lTD. 
DON'T COMPETE WITH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 E. SOOTH 8EJI) AVE. 
SOOTH IJDI), IN 46/JTI 219/2n-4n5 

6/10/91 LSAT Prep Class starts 3/25/91. 
? ?. 
~ 
0 
?? 
? 
? 
1 ? 
"? 
? 
~ 
0 
? 
? 
? ? 

slow acetylators and seven were rapid acetylators. All were given standard doses of the drug. None of the slow acetyla­tors had serious side effects, but three of the fast acetylators had life-threatening reactions. 
On other subjects, C. Freder­ick LeMaistre of the University of Texas at San Antonio out­lined the use of a natural hu­man protein that has been welded to a poison through ge­netic engineering. 
Unlike most healthy tissue, some cancer cells are highly re­sponsive to a natural substance called interleukin 2, or IL-2. So doctors combined the gene that makes human IL-2 with the gene that makes diphtheria toxin. 
ballot in today's Observer," McDonald said. 
AHim also expressed disfavor with The Observer, because of the article that appeared yes­terday about Peralez' posters being torn down. According to Allen, every candidate had some posters taken down. 
"Paul could have just gone around and put his posters back up," Allen said. "That is what I had to do." 
The run-off elections will take place between 11 a.m.-1 p.m.and 5-7 p.m. on Wednes­day. On campus students will vote at their dorms and off­campus students can vote at the LaFortune information desk. 
? Liberal Arts Degree? ? in the Job Market" ? 

1he Observer page 9 
·rroops arrest president of Mali 
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast (AP)­Soldiers in Mali have arrested 
. Gen. Moussa Traore following days of rioting and protests against the embattled president, sources in Mali's capital said early Tuesday. Idrissa Traore, president of the Mali Barristers' Association, said military sources in Bamako informed him of the president's detention. He did not describe the action as a "coup" but said the soldiers "have the situation under control." Idrissa Traore is no relation to the president. There was no official confirmation of the report in Bamako. Residents of the city cheered and set off firecrackers after hearing reports that Traore had been detained. There were also reports of looting and gunfire in the downtown area. Burning barricades and tracer bullets lit the night sky. 
"Everyone's in the street. No­body's sleeping. We're all so happy," said a woman who an­swered the telephone at the home of human rights leader and lawyer Demba Diallo. She would not give her name. 
A worker at Gabriel Toure Hospital in Bamako said three bodies and eight wounded people had been brought to the center early Tuesday. 
Thousands of workers in Mali went on strike Monday, and 45,000 people rallied in the capital to demand Traore's resignation. For the first time in four days, troops did not fire on anti-government protesters. 
·Opposition groups said Traore's troops had killed at least 148 civilians and wounded hundreds during daily pro­democracy protests that began on Friday. Traore says 27 were killed. Neither report could be independently confirmed. 
Juror discusses murder trial in public 
CONCORD, N.H. (AP) -The state said Monday it is investi­gating a complaint that a juror publicly discussed the trial of a high school instructor given a life term for manipulating her student-lover into killing her husband. 
The complaint was filed by Pamela Smart's mother, Linda Wojas, who said she received an anonymous call last week from a man who said he heard a juror illegally discussing the case in public. 
Mrs. Wojas said she testified at a closed hearing Thursday before Judge Douglas Gray, who presided over the three-week trial. 
Gray called in the juror "and he denied it or explained it away or whatever," said Mrs. Wojas' daughter, Beth. "The judge apparently decided it was not enough to do anything more about it." 
Assistant Attorney General Paul Maggiotto would not say if the juror was being investigated 
There has been unrest In the West African nation of nearly 8 million people since January. 
Traore had agreed to free po­litical prisoners, lift a state of emergency and curfew and make other concessions after meeting with opposition leaders on Sunday night. But he has said he would not resign. 
Diallo said the strike called by the National Union of Malian Workers brought the city to a standstill and pressure would continue until Traore resigned. 
"Our movement is irreversible and cannot go back," he said. 
Traore seized power in a mili­tary coup in 1968, eight years after the country gained inde­pendence from France. He in­stalled himself as civilian presi­dent of a one-party state in 1979, and he was the sole presidential candidate in 1985 elections. 
further, only that Mrs. Wojas' complaint was. 
Smart, 23, was convicted Fri­day of being an accomplice to first-degree murder, murder conspiracy and witness-tamper­ing. Gray sentenced her imme­diately to the mandatory term of life in prison on the first charge. 
Prosecutors said she per­suaded her teen-age lover, William Flynn, and two friends at Winnacunnet High School in Hampton to kill her husband. 

Bob Simon meets Shamir AP Photo CBS television reporter Bob Simon, who was captured by Iraqi forces while covering the Gulf war, but normally stationed in Israel met Sunday for an informal chat with Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir (right), at the Prime Minister's office. ·• 

lfo/1! 2f.rt 
!fltlt'IIELPltii/Vcft'l 
(OtiRttiTtiRE 
1/Ltllll/tlcf) 1/ltEPIII/Tcf/ 
Love ~our !family 
New vork .... ",...... " .... """" ,..."ath pe~~~ ...,,
11 ~~~LUI~~ u~ 
Rathburn has been assistant manager for Fitness U.S.A. Health Spas and district manager for the South bend of­fice of Automatic Data Process­ing. While pursuing a major in 
llctiLY 

only to see the effort fizzle in the Democrat-dominated Assembly. 
"We've had a number of peo­ple who have been wavering over there for a long time," Volker said. 
But Graber said the override is less likely in the Assembly this year with three former death penalty supporters gone. 
New York's electric chair has not been used since 1963. Court decisions overturned the state's death penalty and repeated ve­toes by former Governor Hugh Carey and by Cuomo blocked efforts to approve a new one. 
ALBANY, N.Y. (AP) -The state Senate approved legisla­tion Monday to restore the death penalty in New jork, although a supporter said its chances of becoming law were slim. 
The Senate passed the bill 40­18 after nearly three hours of debate. The bill is expected to easily pass in the state Assem­bly, where it will come up for a vote in the next few weeks. 
Governor Mario Cuomo said he will veto the death penalty, as he has done in each of his eight years in office. 
"Nobody in a position to make a deal goes to the chair," Cuomo 
said. "Poor people go to the chair and nuts who want to go to the chair." 
The fate of the death penalty after Cuomo's veto was not certain. 
''I'm not optimistic," Assem­blyman Vincent Graber, a Democrat and chief death penalty sponsor, said of chances that the Assembly will override the veto. 
Senate sponsor Senator Dale Volker, a Republican, said, "I think we've got a shot at it." 
Several times in recent years the Republican-controlled Sen­ate has mustered enough votes to override death penalty vetoes 
Would you be interested in becoming an 
Rathburn to assist ND relations 
Special to The Observer 
Assistant to the Notre Dame 
Ann Rathburn has been ap­pointed assistant director of


Judicial Council? 
corporate relations at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE: 
A 1987 Notre Dame graduate, 
ELECfiONS Assistant LEGAL CONCERNS Assistant 

American Studies at Notre Dame, she was student intern in the University's Office of Public Relations and Informa­tion. 

In addition to assisting the director of foundation and cor­porate relations, her present responsibilities will include de­velopment work with local cor­porations and business leaders. During the 1989-90 fiscal year, Notre Dame raised $10 million in contributions from corpora­tions. Rathburn's father, Paul, is an associate professor of English at Notre Dame. 
TRAINING Assistant 

ADMINISTRATIVE Assistant each of whom will be eligible for the position ofJudicial Council President for the Academic Year 1992-1993. 
ELIGIBILITY: 
Any current freshman, sophomore, or junior of both academic and disciplinary good standing who is interested in working with Student Government and Administration. 
DUE DATE: 
Applications available and due by WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27,1991 to the Student Government Secretary, 2nd floor LaFortune. Interviews will be sched~ 
is currently·looking for Sports Writers. If you want to deliver sports news to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community each day, then you should attend a meeting on Tuesday, March 26 outside The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune at 7:30 p.m. If you are unable to attend, Notre Dame students please call Dave Dieteman at 283-1407; Saint Mary's students call Christine Penote at 284-5088. 
The Observer 
Subscribe now to The Observer for only $25 a semester or $40 a year. What A deal!! Don't let this opportunity pass you by. 
•



Viewpoint
page 10 Tuesday, March 26, 1991 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor...•...••••.•.•••.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ..••...••....•. David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Edltor••••.••••.•••••..•..John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ••••••••••..•.••••.•..•..Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor•••••...•...Emily Willett Controller..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
Notre Dame should consider responses to secular challenge 
Morrissey, even Hesburgh. New Dan Dwyer 
means and tactics are necessary Guest Columnist to continue the identity and 
manifest those ideals, which, if 
There has been much recent we believe in them, we should discussion centering on the not be embarrassed of in character of Notre Dame as .a contemporary society. Roman Catholic university, If this continuing mission sparked mainly by a new stress means standing for something on the transition from a tradi­which we hold precious, then tionally education-based school Notre Dame should stand for its to a major research institution. beliefs with clarity. An identity The question thus arises, must of a body is the aspect of which ND forsake its Catholic charac­its constituents would be most ter and mission in order to be­proud. If there are real come a "great" university, such differences, real conflicts and as Harvard or Yale, schools at arguments between the faith which there evolved a gradual community and those secular­separation of religious com­ists who question its identity, mitment form the scope of en­world of education. Among university's history? The answer secularists. We would find they should be spelled out. The quiry? American schools, it is arguably lies in assessing the character of ourselves in an intellectual bind, secularist is entitled intellectu­
Some have argued that we the most recognizable of a Notre Dame as a faith put there by two quite different ally to a response on his own would only be deluding our­Catholic orientation. National community, that undeniable factions with legitimate claims. grounds. It would be a disser­selves if we thought Notre Dame prominence was not won easily, facet which has been part of the Indeed, the secular institutions vice to both questioner and re­could be on a par with the for sure, and cannot be gauged Univ~:J_rsity's mission throughout, would view us as an aggressive spondent if one's claims are not secular Ivy League schools merely by the presence of the which has served to distinguish competitor, yet one who is treated as unique, not consid­without having to do as they Golden Dome, or by a crucifiX in this university from others with trying to shake the yoke of the ered in light of a long-held and did, namely, free themselves of every classroom. It owes its no similar commitment to Catholic identity. In secular well thought out tradition held the "shackles" of religious special recognition as one of the religious beliefs. eyes, Notre Dame would not be by a community living its iden­commitment, under the aegis of best Catholic institutions The contemporary dilemma in seen as a realistic threat, for its tity. objectivity and a broader scope especially to those within the which we find ourselves centers very lip service to forsaken The war of ideas of enquiry. Catholic community who have on the nature of this commit­ideals would prevent it from continues-we, emboldened by 
This discussion raises very seen many fine scholars from ment, and his this commitment playing on the even field of the hope of the faith community, important issues which Notre around the world come here to affects our response to the sec­secularism. must strive not only to meet the Dame as a school must address continue the tradition of aca­ular challenge. Several options On the other hand, to live off secular challenge, but in doing in order to maintain institu­demic excellence fostered by the appear available. The commit­of Notre Dame's faith character so, we will present to those tional honesty and integrity. Holy Cross. ment to faith can be done away would also forsake those who secularist questions of meaning Indeed, these uncertain times in Notre Dame also distinguished with altogether, with the possi­look upon it, with respect borne and demand an answer. which we live, where nearly ev­itself from secular universities bility that Notre Dame go the of faith, as the Catholic The notion of Notre Dame as a ery claim to truth is afforded by belonging to a faith way of Harvard and Yale in institution, and they would living witness to its religious equal weight, regardless of community, one which conducts terms of secular prominence. wonder about whether or not commitment is the ideal of the substance or merit, challenges its enquiry within certain This decision would entail a re­such a wavering about beliefs present, requiring both intellec­this university to defme where it bounds, tempered by the light of jection of both that identity would merit quite an estimable tual honesty about that nurtur­stands. revelation. Thus the importance which has fostered the unique­title. ing of the past, and a consistent 
Perhaps the main considera­of Notre Dame's national ness of Notre Dame and that A third option is one in which clarity with regard to the tion in question is one which prominence signifies a large re­faith commitment which has Notre Dame continues its iden­projection of our identity into needs to be pondered seriously sponsibilities which the univer­nurtured this identity. tity by living it, and this is the the future. In doing so, we who by every faculty member, stu­sity has taken on, in defining A second course is that in situation that I think we should are Notre Dame have the dent, administrator -the iden­and manifesting its educational which we maintain all of the continue to pursue. The neces­unique pastoral and evangelical tity of Notre Dame, that concept mission, precisely because of furnishings of our Catholic sity of a continuing identity en­opportunity to answer the secu­inextricably linked to un­the shaping of its identity. character, but simply live off it. tails a situation requiring self­lar challenge to our identity, derstanding our past, evaluat­A second major consideration Living off our character would consciousness or our ongoing and in doing so, continue mani­ing our present, and defining in this discussion should be the mean conducting our enquiry as commitment to the faith. Living festing the believers' challenge our future. question naturally arising from if the commitment spelled out in the identity means furthering to secularism. 
Notre Dame cannot consider the concept of identity: how has the catalogues and journals did those shared beliefs, albeit in a itself as an isolated enclave, in­this identity been fostered and not present insurmountable new era, a society much differ­Dan Dwyer is a Sophomore in 
sulated from the rest of the nurtured throughout the difficulties to being functional ent from the times of Sorin. the College ofArts & Letters 

IN AWITION 70 R&FU51NG 7V AD­
MITANY /Y10R& FOR/3/GN JOURNAt.­
ISTS, 7Hf; GOVCRN1118NT 15 TRYING 
7V ATT!<JT THt tXI5TIN6 PR&SS CORPS BY f}tNY!N6 U5 Jit:aSS 7D FCOO. I MYSUF HAV& HAD N0­
7HING 70 CAT FOR I?AYS/ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
NOT TO MY 

ROt.AND~ 
I<NOI-t//.tCGe.

PeTeR UJHY,!JaS
Htl</3. 

QJNHAV&J THIS5TCRI2 
'love makes the world go around, but it is laughter that keeps us from getting dizzy." 
Author Unknown 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND,/N 46556 

Viewpoint
Tuesday, March 26, 1991 page11 

Faculty member answers criticism from colleague 
In his recent letter to The 
Observer (March 6) my col­
league, Prof. Hochberg-Halton 
escalates his broadside against 
what he calls fascism and once 
again he targets me as some­
how engaging in its 
"apologetics." While I certainly 
respect his right to his opinion I 
regret that I am unable to 
follow this exchange any fur­
ther in the direction he has 
chosen to take it. Not only does 
he so coarsely misreport re­
marks made at the teach-in of 
late January which appear to 
have first incited this volley but, 
in addition, his mode of argu­
mentation too widely misrepre­
sents the facts as well as my 
stated views to allow for me to 
continue a discussion in this fo­
rum. 
Clearly, Prof. Hochberg­Halton is determined to duke it out, rhetorically of course, with some purported enemies of democracy. But I simply do not recognize myself at all as the interlocutor to whom he refers. In fact, in reading his last letter, will all due respect, I almost have the sense that I have slipped into the epistolary ver­sion of a Calvin and Hobbes cartoon except that the accusa­tions he I eve Is are so ou tra­geous and barbed. Furthermore, not only do these qualitative factors make a re­sponse prohibitive, but quanti­tative concerns enter as well. 
The sheer volume of the muddle that he offers in support of his convictions would require an entire special issue of the The Observer to sort out the particulars properly. 
To insist, for instance, as he does, upon reducing the highly variegated and changing land­scape of contemporary Middle Eastern societies to a gross polarity of fascism versus democracy strikes me as ulti­mately unhelpful. One might as well simplify the shifting intri­cacies of the Thirty Years War to a view either of degenerate Papist against heroic Heformers, or loyal Catholics against treacherous heretics, depending, naturally, on con­trasting prejudices. Unfortunately the contempo­rary Middle East especially in the face of the present catas­trophic crisis in the Gulf War requires considerably more at­tentive perception and far more refined analytic tools that these relatively Euro-centric labels. Without the calibrated use of more sophisticated distinctions there is little hope of under­standing the current struggles of the many peoples in the re­gion to achieve for themselves and their neighbors something of an indigenous free, just, equitable, secure, prosperous and modern civil order. 
But even as I must resign my­self to the impossibility of car­rying on this debate, perhaps I can briefly illustrate the char­acter of the difficulties just de­scribed. Given the constraints of space, I will limit myself to a few comments on the charges that Prof. Hochberg-Halton raises merely in the first para­graph of his expansive letter. Here, he insists, initially,_ that I inaccurately alluded to Dr. Ghada Talhami's position as an "emphatic condemnation" of Iraq's invasion and occupation of Kuwait because, he says, she denied that Scud attacks on Israel are terrorist acts. Unfortunately, he does not elab­orate on the logic of that unites these two issues and makes them in some unspecified way irreconcilable. 
Nevertheless, with regard to this question, her view, articu­lated quite clearly, merely started with forthright con­demnation of Iraq's invasion and occupation of Kuwait. It then proceeded to condemn other instances of illegal occu­pation by other states in the re­gion, notably, the Israeli occu­pation of Arab territories seized at the end of the Six Day War. Her argument was quite plain. If UN Hesolution 660 (demanding theat Iraq remove its forces from Kuwait) has led to the instant mobilization of an international effort to liberate one occupied country why then has UN Hesolution 242 (requiring Israel to withdraw from territories to overran in 
June, 1967) been treated for two and a half decades as little more than a topic for debate without any significant en­forcement of its protocols with respect to another occupied country, namely that of the Palestinians? 
Dr. Talhami's view of how the Scud attacks on Israel are best described emerged, as I under­stood it, from an analysis of the complex history of tragic and reciprocal violence resulting largely from the failure of those responsible to provide a framework for a just resolution to the original problem that followed upon the UN's decision to partition Palestine in 194 7. Prof. Rochberg-1-Ialton should take up this matter with her di­rectly if he wishes to pursue it further. However, since he sweeps me too into his broad dragnet of allegations, let me modestly venture a streamlined response in the terms of inter­national law which poses this question of classification as a double set of alternatives. 
One might say, on the one hand, that with the exception of Egypt, the 1948 war between Israel and its Arab neighbors has never formally ended. 
Patrick D. Gaffney 
Guest Columnist 
Hence, technically, a state of belligerence coRtinues even though it has remained largely latent. It was exactly on these grounds that Israel sought to justify its bombing of the nu­clear reactor in Osirik near Baghdad in June of 1981. If one accepts the premises of Israel's own argument then by the same principle the recent Scud attacks by Iraq may also be rec­ognized as yet another phase of this long war, even granting that such assaults were utterly futile by any military estimation and like all violence, especially against innocents, they were totally abhorrent in human terms. On the other hand, if Iraq's Scud attacks on Israel are terrorist acts then Israel's earlier bombing of Iraq is no less so. 
Turning to what he asserts are the disqualifying liabilities in my own emphatic condemna­tion of Saddam Hussein's viola­tions of basic rights both inside and outside his country, Prof. Hochberg-Halton advances two charges. First he faults me for failing to respond, point by point, to the catalogue of what he claimed to have heard from Dr. Talhami at the teach-in. True, I did not structure my let­ter (The Observer, Feb. 25) in this way, firstly, for purely practical reasons. To respond to his telegraphic and often distorted restatAmAnts of her views would have required an­other teach-in or more. Instead, I judged it wise to economize by satisfying this need by means of a blanket rebuttal in order to 
concentrate on the one explicit misunderstanding that he cited in specific reference to me. 
But secondly, there was an important principle at stake in my decision. I hold that free­dom of expression is an abso­lutely essential feature of a uni­versity community, not to men­tion a cornerstone of democ­racy. I defend Prof. Hochberg­Halton's right to state his views with the same vigor that I de­fend Dr. Ghada Talhami's free­dom to state hers. I do not take it to be my task to lash out with lurid condemnations in every setting where views may be ex­pressed with which I may not agree. Furthermore, I do not find it conducive to the clarifi­cation of delicate tangled issues to pillory as a fascist a very distinguished guest scholar with an impressive interna­tional reputation in such fields as civil rights, ecumenism and constructive dialogue between Jewish Israelis and Palestinians. 
But Prof. Rochberg-1-Ialton's second reason for rejecting as incomplete my condemnation of Iraq's invasion and occupation of Kuwait is still more aston­ishing. It is because, he insists, I "ignore...the obdurate fact that Yassir Arafat's Fatah fac­tion of the PLO was launching missiles toward Israel..." Once again no explanation on the link between these two issues is provided. And yet here, more than ever, my sympathy stirs for the parents of Calvin with their sadly limited adult capaci­ties to recognize the lovable Hobbes that their gifted son calls into life by the sheer force of his imagination. 
The incidents that Prof. 
Rochberg-Halton Is apparently 
referring to occurred on 
January 29th and 30th, a full 
week after the aforementioned 
teach-in was held in the Library 
Auditorium. How is it, then, 
that my colleague takes me to 
task for omitting discussion of 
an event that had not happened 
yet, and since I lack clairvoy­
ance, how could I be expected 
to know that it would occur? 
Besides, this sort of eventuality 
was not relevant to the social 
and political history of the Gulf 
region which constituted the 
subject of my presentation. 
Nevertheless, the fact that he attaches such importance to associating issues touching on Kuwait with issues touching on Palestine while adamantly denying any relationship be­tween the two continues to baffie me. Neither, I should add, does this incident come up
anywhere in Prof. Hochberg­Halton's first letter to The Observer (Feb. 14) to provide me with some cue from which I might have guessed that he was awaiting my pronouncement on this or any other subject. 
Moreover, and far more im­portantly, Prof. Hochberg­Halton's clear implication that I do not find the shooting of these Katyusha rockets objectionable (none of which landed in Israel, incidentally, nor did those that landed in Lebanon cause any casualties) is also sheer fantasy. In fact, I most certainly do condemn them and do so utterly, just as I also condemn Israel's continuing occupation of the Lebanese territory where they landed. And between these two issues, I do perceive a connection. In fact, these launchings marked the first violation of this sort since the PLO formally renounced terrorism over two years ago. 
Very sadly, these rockets also reflected the extremely height-· ened tensions that are now testing by fire that admirable landmark decision reached by democratic means. As such, they also betokened the down­ward spiral toward bitterness and desperation among many Palestinians who feel doubly betrayed, by Saddam Hussein's ruthlessness as evidenced In the murder of Abu Iyad, and because after having, at last, themselves officially recognized Israel, they find that Israel's government adamantly refuses to do likewise while Instead it continues to tighten the grip of its iron fist. 
But Prof. Rochberg-Halton's 
small anachronistic error along 
with his Implied misattribution 
of my views are not the worst of 
it. What he leaves out of his 
summary judgment is still an­
other key piece of information 
which flatly contradicts the very 
"obdurate fact" upon which he 
rests his case. In his eagerness 
to accuse me of "one­
sidedness" he omits, for some 
reason, the absolutely essential 
issue of responsibility. Note the 
following sentences which 
appear, not in some obscure 
scholarly footnote nor in what 
he calls the "propaganda put 
forth by Baghdad" but in the 
one source that Prof. Hochberg­
Halton shows he is familiar 
with since he cites it elsewhere 
in his letter. They report a 
crucial detail that quietly pulls 
the rug out from under his 
curiously backdoor case for 
"linkage." 
In the January 30 issue of New York Times on page A8, one reads: "The PLO late Tuesday issued a statement from its headquarters in Tunis denying that Mr. Arafat had is­SHAd ordArs to his estimated 
6,000 guerrillas entrenched in southern Lebanon to open a front against Israel in solidarity with lraq... Beirut newspapers reported today that Mr. Arafat sent a message to his most senior representative in southern Lebanon, Zaid Wehbeh, reprimanding him for making warlike pronounce­ments." 
I end this overlong exchange with a note of thanks once again to Prof. Hochberg-Halton especially in light of his gener­ous conciliatory remarks at the close of his letter. Not only do I agree with him that there is ample reason to fear that our country is heading for terrible times, but I add my confidence in the power of truth and jus­tice and mercy to his resistance to the "cult of the gun." And with regard to the Middle East our primary task, I feel, must be to attend with most special solicitude to victims of brute violence, oppression, and yes, even of "fascism," wherever they lodge whether in Kuwait, or Tel Aviv, Sabra-Sbatilla, Riyadh or Basra. 
Patrick D. Gaffney, C.S.C., is an Associate Professor of Anthropology. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Co-ed dorms may not solve problem of poor male-female relations 
Dear Editor: 
Coed dorms, through their lack of existence on this cam­pus, seem to have become glamorized and overrated. I transferred to Notre Dame from a university in California where I lived in a coed dorm. Living on the same floor with the opposite sex did not produce the earthshattering experience that Ms. Eaton (The Observer, March 20) seems to anticipate. I suspect that Ms. Eaton and many others who share her views suffer from a grass-is­greener delusion. 
Coed dorms do not automati­cally induce a "healthy and normal environment" between the sexes any more than sitting at the same table in the dining hall does. On my former cam­pus, male-female tensions are as much or more prevalent then here at Notre Dame, an indication that gender related problems do not automatically evaporate or even diminish sig­nificantly because of cohabita­tion. "Normal healthy friend­ships" stem from individual at­titudes and personality traits, not housing arrangements. 
Campuses with only coed housing do possess a different type of environment than that which presently exists at Notre Dame. But one will find that students residing in this differ­ent atmosphere still experience sexual harassment, tensions and insecurities about relating to the opposite sex. Any change that coed housing may foster would be temporary and wear off with the novelty. Idealistic, spontaneous bonding between the sexes merely due to housing arrangements is not a realistic expectation. Instead, trivial changes, such as acquiring a lowered inhibition about mem­bers of the opposite sex remov­ing one's underwear from shared washing machines, re­sult. 
Notre Dame is a unique uni­versity in many ways; being dif­ferent need not necessarily be negative. It is true that few campuses have dorms similar to Notre Dame's. Those other dorms, however, consequently .Jack the individual character and the closeness that result from single-sex dorms in which students continue to reside for most or all of their college years. Also unlike Notre Dame, other campuses have fraternity and sorority organizations in compensation. I urge students to carefully and more realisti­cally evaluate the pros and cons of coed dorms instead of auto­matically blaming poor rela­tions upon university housing. 
Bridget Bobick 
Walsh Hall 


March 21, 1991 





Accent 
page 12 Tuesday, March 26, 1991 
Participants in GOLD program are hopeful for the future 

By PAIGE SMORON But by now, everyone has de­
Assistant Accent Editor veloped their own opinions of GOLD and has a story to tell about how the program has af­
It's happening in social fected them. Scott Smoron, who 
spaces, kitchens, and upper­joined a group when another classmen's singles. Freshmen freshman dropped out, said that are getting together to talk the encouragement he received about homesickness, roommate within his group "motivated me problems, and which Biology to run for class office." class to avoid at all costs. Mark McGrath, another 
Well into its first year, the freshman participant, values fledgling Guidance and most the "insider tips" he re­Orientation for Long-term ceived on scheduling classes. Development (GOLD) program And Deirdre Bolden, from the-has grown and adjusted along same group, likes getting to with its freshman participants. know people from all over GOLD was officially established campus, and all over the coun­to promote social interaction, to try. "I don't think the friend­provide informal peer guidance, ships we're forming will be and to stimulate intellectual limited to freshman year. I growth among freshmen know they'll last all four years." 
through peer groups led by a Freshmen group members well-informed upperclassmen. also have strong ideas about the 
But the program has unex­areas of the program that need pectedly evolved from casual improvement. They clamor for odentation groups into some­a bigger budget, more regular 
thing more: friendships. "We've meetings, and more activities, actually been surprised with the as well as an expansion of the rapport that has sprung up in program. "My friends ask me, 
these groups," said Melissa 'How did you get picked to do Smith, who, along with Scott this?' I think everyone should Boehnen and Lynn Ramsay, co­get a chance to participate," ordinated the program in re­Year of Studies. In short, "The so close in age to the freshmen. difficulties-they can point the said Benning. sponse to several Board of main focus of the program was If a candidate can meet the freshmen in the right direction Lynn Ramsay, co-coordinator Trustees reports that indicated to provide an informal infor­other requirements, a facilitator for more qualified help. of the program, verified that it a need for longer-term orienta-mation exchange, but real can be as young as a But while the groups are a would be ideal to expand GOLD 
bonds have been formed as the sophomore. "The leader is more convenient forum for freshmen to affect the entire freshman
'Freshman group members 

participants have gotten to like a friend than an authority to air their complaints about class, but pointed out the 
also have strong ideas about 
know each other," said Smith. figure," said Jenny Benning, their "home-town honeys" and enormity of the undertaking. the areas of the program that One group insists that the one of the freshmen chosen to "impossible" work loads, the "There would be a tremendous need improvement. They _main reason they continue to participate in GOLD. "There's GOLD program also provides demand for facilitators; we 
meet is for the social aspect of more trust involved, and you more positive distractions. would need 150 upperclassmen
clamor tor a bigger budget, 
the program. They begin each know you're getting the real Each group has a small budget to cover the freshman class. 
more regualr meetings, and 
meeting by comparing notes on low-down on what everyday life they can use to hold a The project would probably be 
more activities...' 
tailgaters, movies, and love is like at Notre Dame." Christmas party, a movie out­too big to stay within Student tion for freshmen. lives. Group members are also en­ing, or use the money as they Government," she said. 
The peer groups are struc­But this easy familiarity couraged to get to know their see fit. In addition, activities The future of the GOLD pro­tured with ten freshmen drawn serves a deeper purpose. facilitators oil a one-to-one ba­are planned with some or all of gram is uncertain at this point. from differing backgrounds, in­"Because the atmosphere is so sis. Because there are no office the other GOLD groups, such as The coordinators have been tended college programs, resi­relaxed and personal, it's easier schedules and appointments in­bowling trips, softball games, gathering feedback from sur­dence halls, and both sexes. to tackle more serious topics, volved, some freshmen are and last semester, a lecture by veys, and will compile a report The result is a random sam­like off-campus safety and time more comfortable approaching Father Hesburgh. for Student Affairs and the pling of the freshman class. management," said Nicole their group leader than an In the beginning, the partici­Freshman Year of Studies. On 
The function of the facilitator Farmer, a GOLD group administrative figure. If the pants themselves had few or April 1, GOLD will be evaluated was to be a resource person facilitator. facilitators are faced with more vague expectations of the pro­and terminated or continued. who would be more accessible Perhaps this rapport is serious problems-specific ex­gram. One freshman professed Hopefully, the future of the and less intimidating than achieved because the upper­amples in the past have been to be looking only for an older GOLD program will be as bright counselors at the Freshman class facilitator of each group is eating disorders and academic connection who could buy beer. as those of its participants. 
'Kill Uncle' doesn't compare to Morrissey's performance in The Smiths 
By JASON WINSLADE Smiths as one of the most in­his solo career, must rely more much in the background. erything so deeply, so bleakly." Accent Writer fluential British progressive heavily on his developing lyrical Although, one of the better He often portrays himself as a 
As much as I thought to my­rock bands of the early 80's, style, in order to compensate songs on the album, "Driving neutral observer to someone self that I had outgrown my spearheading the second wave for the usually second-rate Your Girlfriend Home," is an else's relationship, as in high school days of Smiths' of Manchester bands. music written to accompany it. acoustic piece reminiscent of "Driving Your Girlfriend Home," worship and Morrissey idolatry, It was the Morrissey/Marr the Smiths' "Stretch Out and one of the few heartfelt songs I still bought his third solo combination that made that "Kill Uncle" suffers from this Wait." Violins dominate "Asian 
'Morrissey, whne hitting a
effort, "Kill Uncle" to see what band what it was, with problem. Morrissey no longer Rut," a slower piece dealing collaborates with producer, with racial violence in a defi­plateau with his more Stephen Street in the music nitely Morrissey-esque manor. melodic vocal style, shows writing , or utilizes the whining Piano dominates the slower definite maturation with his guitars of Durutti Column's Vini piece, "There's a Place in Hell 
lyrics.'

Reilly, or backup with the other for Me and My Friends," and 
Smiths. His newest col­there is a cheesy vibraphone on the album, proving that he 
laborators are guitarist, Mark sound in the album's weakest can still describe situations to 
E. Nevins and producer, Clive track, "King Leer." Other goofy, which the average person can Langer. Ironically, the two yet irresistible pop songs relate. songs that rely most heavily on include the singles "Our Frank" As a Smiths fan, I always guitars and come closest to and "Sing Your Life." admired Morrissey's talent for Morrissey's work with the writing lyrics about common Smiths are, "Mute Witness," Morrissey, while hitting a experiences to which almost 
1Mornssey, and h1s solo plateau with his more melodic anyone can relate. I always de­vocal style, shows definite mat­fended his self-indulgence by
career, must rely more 

uration with his lyrics. No saying that almost everyone has 
heavily on his developing 

longer concentrating on per­felt like Morrissey at some time lyrical style, In order to sonal rejection, Morrissey has in their life, and that he compensate for the usually developed a style of telling appealed to our need to feel second-rate music written to quirky stories and then insert­sorry for ourselves. He is still 
ing his own personal statement able to be quite odd and clever
accompany it.' 

at the end, usually proving his in "Kill Uncle," but the music and "Found Found Found", are ironic Oscar Wilde outlook on often does not hit the mark be­
the ones co-written by Langer, life is pretty much the same. cause it lacks the rawness and the old self-indulgent com­Morrissey's clever and biting and incidentally are also the .. He even seems to be able to freshness of the Smiths. In plainer/crooner was up to. lyrics and his monotone yodel­strongest tracks. make fun of himself now, as in short, Morrissey must attempt
Morrissey's audience is defi­ing, balancing Marr's complex The other songs are heavily "Our Frank" when he pleads to reach back to his former nitely not the same group of and melodic guitar dominated by piano, keyboards, "Won't somebody stop me from simplicity, or else he is destined adolescents who loved the maneuyering. Morrissey, and and violin, with guitars very thinking all the time about ev-for pop mediocrity. 


UNLV streaking to Final Four 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -When UNLV went on a 14-0 tear to open the second half of Saturday's NCAA West Regional finals, It meant the beginning of the end for Seton Hall's season. 
Tho run was old hat for the Runnln' Rebels. Just ask Georgetown and regular-season opponents Arkansas, Florida State, Michigan State and Princeton. 
UNLV has made a habit this season of starting second half action several minutes before they let their opponents into the game. The key, says coach Jerry Tarkanlan, is knowing which player to motivate. 
~You have to try to push the right button when the time comes," Tark the Shark said. "Each kid Is motivated differ­ently." 
The Rebels (34-0) have used these emotional lifts to move within two games of becoming the first team since UCLA in 1973 to capture consecutive NCAA championships and the first since Indiana in 1976 to do It without losing a game. 
When the Rebels pour it on to open a second half, It's usually because Tarkanlan preaches defense during his halftime talk. 
~when our defense picks up, 
we begin creating a lot of 
turnovers and that's what al­
lows us to make those scoring 
runs," Tarkanian said. 
Against Seton Hall, the Rebels led 39-36 at the half, then ran 
off  14  straight points  and  
coasted to a 77-65.  
Seton  Hall  coach  P.J.  
Carlesimo was impressed.  

~As soon as we slipped a bit, they lived up to Tark's nick­name," he said. "They go for the jugular pretty good." 
Even Tark marveled at his team's ability to turn it on. 
"It was something to see," Tarkanian said. ~, can't wait to go home and watch the tape." 
There are a few tapes Tark would enjoy: 
-In the second round of the tournament, the Rebels used a 15-4 run against Georgetown on their way to a 62-54 victory. 
-In their showdown with then No. 2 Arkansas on Feb. 11, the Rebels trailed 50-46 at halftime, then opened the sec­ond half with a 10-0 run and outscored Arkansas 29-11 in the first seven minutes to win 112-105. 
-At Michigan State, the Rebels broke a 56-56 tie with a 16-6 run and won 95-75. 
-Against Florida State, the Rebels used an 11-0 run in the first half to break open a tight game, then added a 21-2 run in the second half to win 101-69. 
And, there was a 22-3 run against Princeton, a 19-3 spurt against Utah State, a 20-2 run against Rutgers and a 16-2 streak against Louisville. 
The Rebels have used the sprees to toy with opponents all season, with most of the scoring surges coming at the start of the second half. ' 
~It all depends on what's hap­pened the first half," Tarkanian said. "We don't generally get mad or upset with them at halftime. We just go over what's working and what's not, just make some defensive adjustments that need to be made. 
"This year's club is just so good that we haven't had to make a lot of adjustments at halftime." 
An exception was Thursday's game against Utah, when a fuming Tarkanian switched from man-to-man to an amoeba defense during a halftime session that wasn't pretty. 
~one of the few times I really got upset was the Utah game," Tarkanian said. The Rebels de­feated the Utes 83-66 to ad­vance to Saturday's regional fi­nal against Seton Hall. 
Tarkanian gave his players a rare two days off following the Seton Hall victory, with work­outs scheduled at home Tuesday and Wednesday before the team leaves for Indianapolis. 
Rich, Buffalo still in the hunt for expansion team 
BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) ­Buffalo's chance to ol"tain a National League team has not been hurt by the prospective owner's concern over the cost of a franchise, the chairman of the league's expansion commit­tee said Monday. 
Douglas Danforth, owner of the Pittsburgh Pirates, said Robert E. Rich Jr.'s recent statements have been echoed throughout baseball. 
"It's not just the Riches who were saying that," Danforth said after he and three other members of the committee vis­ited the city, one of six finalists for an expansion team in 1993. 
~There are a lot of people that are concerned because salaries have jumped about 35 percent between 1990 and 1991," Danforth said. "Heretofore, it was 8, 9, 10, 12 percent (annually)." 
Rich, president of the coun­try's largest privately-held frozen food company and owner of the Class AAA Buffalo Bisons, said in December he had questions about the finan­cial viability of a major league expansion here, considering the steep rise in player salaries. 
The expansion committee, which made visits to three Florida cities earlier this year, visited Washington and Buffalo on Monday. A visit to Denver is scheduled for Tuesday, and Danforth said the committee will name the two new National League cities by the middle of the summer. 
Danforth said he sees two positives -solid ownership and a stadium -and two nega­tives -market size and avail­able parking -impacting on Buffalo's chance to get an ex­pansion franchise, which will cost $95 million. 
~The thing that impresses me the most ... is the Riches know what they're doing," he said. "They run a very good club, probably the best-run triple-A franchise that I know of. 
~They know what they're do­ing in concessions and they know what they're doing in providing entertainment for the family. They're real baseball people." 
Added Philadelphia Phillies owner Bill Giles, another committee member, "Certainly they're the kind of people that you want to have as partners in major league baseball." 
Giles added that he was ~very, very impressed" with Pilot Field, the city's 20,000-seat downtown baseball stadium that opened in 1988. 

The Observer accepts classlfleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. 81 the 
Notre Dame ottlce, 314 LaFortune. Oaadllne tor next-day classlfleds Is 3p.m. AH 
ctassMieds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including aM


Classifieds 
spaces. 

Notices 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
RESUMES.. PROFESSIONAL 
QUALITY. CALL 272-5667. 
""ATIENTION SMC'''" 
II anyone would like to purchase a 
St. Mary's class ring, I transferred 
alter purchasing mine and would 
like to sell itl It's like brand 
new-and cheaper than the regular 
selling Pficel Gille me a call, I 
graduate soon I Thanks I Julie 
273-9442 
$$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. 
hours 10-5:30 everyday 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 
corner of NO Ave. & Howard 
Lost and Found 
lloat my 10. If you have found it, please return It to me. I am very lost without it. I had all of my 10 in a blue NO holder. My name is Comalita Hayabert. You can reach me at the 13270. 
HELP MEl LOst 10. Please call 3270 II you ha~~e found it. All of my 10 was In Blue NO plastic case. I'm lost without it. Comalita M. Haysbert 
Wanted SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LANOIWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PlACID. CALl 1-800-343-8373. 
NEEDED: ride to IU lor Easter Break Missy 2577 $$ 
• RIDE NEEDED ' To Indianapolis lor Easter Break Ill Will pay gasIll Call'tricia@ 284-4314. 
SEEKING SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENT FOR BABYSmiNG -15 HOURS PER WEEK-5 MIN. FROM N.D. 234-7407. 
HELPIIINEED A ROOMATE FOR CASTLE PT. NEXT YEAR-CALL DOUG X2051 
EARN $3001$500 PER WEEK 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B I need ride to Iowa City or nearby 
for Easter-call Jen 2170 
PC-compatible laptop 288-5859 
NEED RIDE TO DAYTON FOR 
EASTER. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME 
DEBBIE x2982. 

HelpII need a ride to the Twin Cities for Easter, will help pay tor gas and tolls. 
For Rent 

GRAD. WEEKEND 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-2Q1-7153. 

3 Bedroom House Close to Campus $555 Month + Deposit 
Ten Month Lease 232-3616 
TIME IS RUNNING OUT ­Call before the BEST houses are gone 233·9947. 
GET YOUR REAR IN GEAR Reserve a 5,4, 2 bedrm. house for '91-'92 yr. 288-5653 or 234-3831. 
Available. 2 Student Rental Homes lor 1991-1992 school year. Call 232-5411 (9 A.M to 12 and 2 P.M. to 5 P.M. Monday thru Friday). 
FREEDOM! Rent the best houses. 
Prime locations. 233­9947. 
TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE IDEAl FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER 3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MilE NORTH OF NO 2773097 
Apts. for rent-2 bedrm, kitchen, dining, living. $380 indudes utilities. Call219-232-5563. 
Senior girls leaving May '91 -4 Bedroom east side home near Notre Dame for lease, all appliances ind. wahr/dryer, central air, finished basement, frplc., super 4 to 5 person student rental. Call 219­232-5563. 
For Sale 

IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOME I 3 BDRM HOME FOR SAlE BY OWNER. FIREPLACE, CIA, FMRM WIBAR. MOVE-IN COND. 15 MIN WALK FROM NO. APPT ONLY. 234-8116, EVE. 
TWO round trip tickets to London. Good through Dec. 1991. $350 each or best offer. 239­7962 days. 
sola, luv seat, carpet window seats (Fl. & Gr.) X1583 
Bar, Five Stools, Misc. glasses. 289-5345. 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Buying a car? Good rates. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00,289-1993. Office near campus. 
Tickets 
2 R-trip tix. anywhere for $250 a piece. Call2649 or 314g 
Personal 
Resumes....Professional quality 272-5667. (Tom Williams) 
IBM, COMMODORE, OR APPLE. Cash paid for all makes of Computers and Software. Computer software for IBM and IBM compatible, Commodore or Apple, $2 each. WESTERN ELECTRONICS 1530WESTERNAVE. 287-7550 
NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and trade, gold, silver, diamonds, jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's, camcorders, cameras, air conditioners, microwaves, tools, Nintendo's, computers. OZARK TRADING POST 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550 
91 GRADS: MOVING TO DC? Need roommate? Call David (NO '90) 217-753-1641. 
SUPER SLIDE SHOWIII 
Embarrass your enemiesI Embarrass your friends I Embarrass yourself! 
Sumbit pictures for the biggest slide show of the year to THE BOX at the infonnation desk in LaFortune before MARCH 28. Include name, phone, and address on the back. 
BE A PART OF fTI 
One more day until... 
Engineering Sweatshirt DayI 
Justdoit. 
It'll make you feel good... 

ADOPTION: Happily married loving couple wish to adopt. We promise a fine education, financial security, and the best of all our hearts. Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Call Tom and Debbie collect 212­866-8315. 
Going to HOUSTON/DALLAS? Too much stuff to bring home for the summer? Help me fill my truck. Contact Joe-X1433 
HOP HOP HOP To the Bunny Shop 
We have Easter Baskets and 
lotsa candy just for youI 
The Country Harvester LaFortune Lower Le~~el 

M-F 12-5 SPRING OPEN HOUSE 
SPRING OPEN HOUSE 

M-F 12-5 At THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
WE HAVE CUDDlY BUNNIES, BOUNTIFUL BASKETS, HOME­MADE CHOCOLATES AND LOTSA TOYSII 
SEE YOU THERE I 
HELP•HELP.HELP'HELP'HELP 

II you are driving to MASSACHUSETIS for Easter and still have room in your car, or if you arP interested in driVIng and need a ride,please call me. Anne 288-0597. 
HELPI Group of apathetic seniors were too lazy to sign up for Bookstore but would like to play. Sell us your team (price negotiable). Face It, you'll probably lose in the first round anyway. Call Scott@ X1650. 
Who is Joe Raven? 

I don1 know who Joe 
Ravenis,butldo 

know that today is 
Francis Zaffere's 21st You can recognize 
him by his published 
work in the Observer 
and "Artificial Man" 
body. He is also the 
founding member, 
and what a member, 
oi"IROC". 

Ha~~e fun, dude. 
It's MICHAEL PILAWSKI'S 21st Birthday! 
So call him up (x3216) and wish him a Happy Birthday. 
A HAPPY HOME FOR YOUR BABY. A Southern California teacher and film/businessman seek to fulfill dreams through adoption. We offer financial security, education, opportunities, and extended family. Please call collect Maria and Peter (818) 893-2795. 
FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY 
CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. 
To that noble bronze-skinned guy I saw east of the Admin building. Will you build a house on the water for us? 
Ill PROFESSORS... Ill 
ARE YOU TOURING THE WORLD ON A FULBRIGHT? ARE YOU GOING TO BERMUDA? ARE YOU JUST GOING AWAY THIS SUMMER? WORRIED ABOUT THE HOUSE? RESPONSIBLE UNDERGRAD IS LOOKING TO TAKF CARE OF YOUR HOUSE WHILE FlUNKING ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IN THE SUMMER SESSION. NO NEED TO WORRY THIS SUMMERI CALL ANYTIME...283-3470...PlEASE LEAVE A MESSAGE IF GONE I CAN FURNISH "CHARACTER" REFERENCES UPON REQUEST. 
SENIOR FORMAL Anyone interested in helping with music lor the mass at Senior Formal, please contact Stacy at 271-1893. 
03127 
We didn't sell Peanut Buner 
Eggs at Christmas nor did we 
sell Marshmallow Bunnies at 
Halloween, but we will sell 
them nowllll 
EASTER STUFF IS US1 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE 
M-F 12-5 Stop in and say 'HI' to PAULA AMY, MAURA AND KEN IIIII 
She's TAN, she's BLONDE, and today she's 201 HAPPY BIRTHDAY MICHELLE Bl Lo~~e, your Farley Fan Club + Danny. 
Going to Pins. for Easter? I need a 
ride. Liz x 4416. 
1991 REGATIA T-SHIRTS $8.00 
On sale Mon., Tues., & Wed.@ 
NOH & SOH @ dinner or x3928. 
On 4120-VA GOTIA REGATIAII 
Panky!Little Lady Bug, the best is 
yet to come.! lo~~e you very, ~~ery 
much. Lets have a Rock'in good 
time.All my love, Super Spider. 
ST. JUDE NOVENA:MAY THE SACRED HEART OF JESUS BE ADORED, GLORIFIED, LOVED AND PRESERVED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD NOW AND FOREVER. SACRED HEART OF JESUS PRAY FOR US. ST. JUDE WORKER OF MIRACLES PRAY FOR US. ST. JUDE HELPER OF THE HOPELESS PRAY FOR US. SAY THIS PRAYER NINE TIMES EACH DAY AND BY THE EIGHTH DAY YOUR PRAYER WILL BE ANWERED. IT HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN TO FAIL.THANK YOU .LM 
YAHTZEEIIIII YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND NOW, BUT YOU WOULD IF.... 
Valentines 
Here's your chance to win your very own Mac SEI Visit the RILEY GROUP In Hayes-Healey LAB Mar 26-27 and register to win Mac SE to be rattled off In Aorll. 

page 14 Scoreboard Tuesday, March 26, 1991 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE AlnlcDivWon 
w  L  Pel.  
x-Boston 50  19  .725  
Philadelphia 38  30  .559  
New Vorl< 34  35  .493  
Washington 26  42  .382  
New Jersey 22  47  .319  
Miami 20  49  .290  
Cenlnll Dlvlelon  
x-Chlcago 51  17  .750  
x-Detro~ 43  27  .614  
x-MIIwaukee 42  28  .600  
Atlanta 38  31  .551  
Indiana 34  35  .493  
Cleveland 24  43  .358  
Charlone 19  49  .279  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
..,_Dlvlelon  
w  L  Pel.  
X·Utah 46  22  .676  
x-San Antonio 44  23  .657  
x-Houaton 44  24  .647  
DaHaa 25  42  .373  
Orlando 24  43  .358  
Minnesota 22  45  .328  
Denver 18  51  .261  
PIICIIc DlvWon  
x-Portland 49  18  .731  
x-LALakers 50  20  .714  
x-Phoenlx 47  22  .681  
Golden State 36  32  .529  
sean1e 32  35  .478  
LA Clippers 26  44  .371  
Sacramento 18  49  .269  
x-cllnched playoff berth  
Monday'•~  

Orlando 115, Golden State 106 Washington 113, New Jersey 106 Houston 100, Chicago 90 Detroit 118, Denver 94 ~ah 109, Milwaukee 98 LA Lakers 99, Sacramento 89 LA Clippers 106, Phoenix 94 

Tooeday'a Garrw. Golden State at Charlone, 7:30 p.m. Atlanta at Indiana. 7:30 p.m. Cleveland at Mlarri, 7:30 p.rn 
m 
11 112 16 23 112 28 30 
9 10 13 112 17112 26 112 32 
m 
1112 2 20112 21112 23 112 28 112 
112 3 13 112 17 24 112 31 
Philadelphia at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. New Vorl< at San Antonio, 8 p.m. Minnesota at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. Seanle at Portland, 10:30 p.m. 

TENNIS MONEY LEADERS 
TENliS 
w....... 
Through March 24 WITA Money La-.. 
1, Monica Seles, $389,108. 2, Gabriela Sabatini, $261,441.3, Jana Novotna, $246,308.4, Mary Joe Fernandez, $190,300. 5, Martina Navratllova, $177,625. 6, Stefll Graf, $108,651. 7, Zina Garrison, $100,347. 8, Arantxa Sanchez Vacarlo, $90,266. 9, Patty Fendlck, $71,173. 10, Helena Sukova. $68,209. Men Through March 24 ATP Tow Money Laan 
1, Ivan Lendl, $420,524. 2, Jim Courier, $370,954. 3, Stefan Edberg, $304,323. 4, Boris Becker, $300,364. 5, Guy Forget, $255,626. 6, Michael Stich, $211,040. 7, Patrick McEnroe, $157,971. 8, David Wheaton, $145,962. 9, Cristiano Caranl, $139,766. 10, Omar Camporese, $133,395. 
NCAA BASEBALL RANKINGS 
The top 25 college baseball teams as determined by the staff of Baseball America magazine, ~h records through games of March 
25 and previous ranking: 
Racood l'l'v 1.Fiorlda State 28-3 2.Southern Cal 25-8 3.LSU 22·7 4.Stanford 17·7 5.Miaml, Fla. 27·7 6.Texas 27·9 7 .Pepperdlne 21·5 8.Hawall 21-4 9.0hioSt. 15-2 1 O.Long Beach St. 23-9 11.Crelghton 16-4 12.Texas A&M 25-10 13.Wich~a State 18-7 14.Ciemson 18-4 15.Georgla Tech 17·7 16.South Carolina 24-6 17.South Florida 25-7 18.Arlzona State 21-16 19.0klahoma State 12·8 20.CS Northridge 22·10 21.Michlgan 10-6 22.Tulane 20-6 23.0klahoma 18-5 24.North Carolina State 24·6 25.NotreDeme 13·7 

WLAF STANDINGS 
europ... 
w L  T  Pel.  
London  1  0  0  1.000  
Barcelona  1  0  0  1.000  
Frankfurt  0  1  0  .000  
~""-tart EMt  
Montreal  1  0  0  1.000  
Orlando  0  0  0  .000  
Raleigh-Durham 0  1  0  .000  
N.Y.-N.J.  0  1  0  .000  
Norlh ""-tart w..t  
Sacramento  1  0  0  1.000  
San Antonio  0  0  0  .000  
Birmingham  0  1  0  .000  
Slllurdoy'e 0.....  

London 24, Frankfurt 11 Sacramento 9, Raleigh-Durham 3 Montreal 20, Birmingham 5 

Sunday'a Game 
1 
2 
3 4 5 6 7 9 
10 16 
8 
17 13 15 14 
12 
11 
20 19 22 24 25 
18 
FF PA 24 11 19 7 11 24 
20 5 0 0 3 9 7 19 
9 3 0 0 5 20 
Barcelona 19, New Yori<-New Jersey 7 

Monday'• Game San Antonio at Orlando, 8 p.m. 
S.Uday, March 30 Sacramento at Birmingham, 8 p.m. Raleigh-Durham at Orlando, 8 p.m. 
Sunday, U.ch 31 New Vorl<-New Jersey at London, 1 p.m. 
Monday, April1 Franklun at San Antonio, 8 p.rn Barcelona at Montreal, 8 p.m. 
NBALEADERS 
Scoring  
G  FG  
Jordan, Chi.  67  797  
King, Wash.  63  711  
K.Malone, ~ah  67  679  
Barkley, PhN.  61  618  
Ewing, N.Y.  68  707  
Wilkins, AU.  68  651  
Adams, Den.  53  448  
Mullin, G.S.  67  644  
Robinson, S.A.  67  623  
Richmond, G.S.  62  576  
Hardaway, G.S.  67  616  
Miller, Ind.  69  497  
K.Johnson, Phoe.  68  523  
Worthy, LAL  66  620  
Drexler, Port.  67  536  
Daugherty, Clev.  67  541  
Hawkins, Phil.  67  481  
Cilflllbell, Minn.  62  510  
Pierce, Sea  63  475  
Chambers, Phoe.  65  500  
llebolnlng  
G  ~  
Robinson, S.A.  67  279  
Rodman, Del.  69  298  
Oakley, N.Y.  69  279  
K.Malone, ~ah  67  203  
Ewing, N.Y.  68  170  
Daugherty. Clev.  67  155  
Parilh, Bos.  68  218  
Thorpe, Hou.  67  237  
Coleman, N.J.  61  219  
Barkley, Phil. ....  61  242  
G  No.  
Stockton, ~ah  67  968  
Johnson, LAL  66  844  
Adams, Den.  53  584  
K.Johnson, Phoe.  68  689  
Hardaway, G.S.  67  649  
Richardson, Minn.  67  615  
Thomas, Del.  39  357  
Grant, LAC  65  579  
Bogues, Char.  67  579  
Douglas, Mia.  62  533  
Field Goal Percentage  
FG  FGA  
Wlnlams, Port  292  486  
Garrble, Bos.  455  759  
Parish, Bos.  405  678  
Dlvac, LAL  306  527  
Barkley, Phil.  618  1093  
Thorpe, Hou.  463  831  
McHale, Bos.  427  771.  
Paxson, Chi.  254  460  
Robinson, S.A.  623  1129  
Grant, Chi.  329  598  
Ta.nOfterwe  
G  Pit  
Denver  68  8169  
Golden State  67  7869  
Phoenix  68  7810  
Portland  67  7680  
Boston  69  7762  
Indiana  69  7672  
Chicago  67  7400  
Atlanta  69  7597  
Houston  67  7198  
Milwaukee  69  7351  
L.A. Lakers  69  7331  
Seanle  67  7109  
Orlando  66  6998  
Philadelphia  68  7193  
San Antonio  67  7072  
Utah  67  6958  
Charione  68  7004  
LA. Clippers  69  7094  
New Vorl<  69  7088  
New Jersey  68  6978  
Miami  69  7039  
Washington  67  6814  
Cleveland  67  6795  
Dallas  67  6692  
Detro~  69  6871  
Minnesota  67  6643  
Sacramento  66  6260  

FT  Pit  A¥g  
443  2062  30.8  
383  1813  28.8  
543  1903  28.4  
454  1732  28.4  
384  1798  26.4  
402  1780  26.2  
366  1384  26.1  
421  1746  26.1  
477  1724  25.7  
345  1530  24.7  
261  1574  23.5  
484  1566  22.7  
447  1500  22.1  
190  1450  22.0  
342  1461  21.8  
375  1457  21.7  
399  1453  21.7  
290  1325  21.4  
354  1345  21.3  
339  1358  20.9  
Oaf  Tal  A"!!  
590  869  13.0  
549  847  12.3  
560  839  12.2  
802  805  12.0  
605  775  11.4  
571  726  10.8  
500  718  10.6  
458  695  10.4  
413  632  10.4  
376  618  10.1  
Avg.  
14.4  
12.8  
11.0  
10.1  
9.7  
92  
92  
8.9  
8.6  
8.6  
Pet  
.601  
.599  
.597  
.581  
.565  
.557  
.554  
.552  
.552  
.550  
A"!!  
120.1  
117.4  
114.9  
114.6  
112.5  
111.2  
11Q.4  
110.1  
107.4  
106.5  
106.2  
106.1  
106.0  
105.8  
105.6  
103.9  
103.0  
102.8  
102.7  
102.6  
102.0  
101.7  
101.4  
99.9  
99.6  
99.1  
94.8  


Have a

TRANSACTIONS 
• d ' 

BASEBALL 
n Ice ay. 

NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Pnic:k llivlelon  
w  L  T  Pit  GF  GA  
•·Pittsburgh  39  32  5  83  325  290  
x-NY Rangers  35  30  12  82  283  253  
Washington  35  34  7  77  247  249  
N-Jersey  31  31  14  76  263  251  
Philadelphia  33  35  9  75  247  257  
NY Islanders  23  44  10  56  215  282  
Adorna Dlvlelon  
y-Boston  42  23  12  96  282  252  
x-Montreal  38  29  11  87  268  242  
•·Buffalo  29  30  17  75  274  265  
x-Hartford  31  36  10  72  227  260  
Quebec  15  48  13  43  221  338  
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  
Nonie Dlv181on  
w  L  T  Pit  GF  GA  
x-Chlcago  47  22  7  101  271  203  
x-St. Louis  43  22  11  97  295  243  
x-Detrolt  33  36  8  74  262  281  
x-Minnesota  26  36  14  66  244  252  
Toronto  23  44  10  56  234  306  
Smythe Dlvlelon  
x-Los Angeles  44  23  10  98  329  244  
x-Calgary  44  25  7  95  323  248  
x-Edmonton  35  36  5  75  256  258  
Vancouver  27  42  9  63  238  306  
Winnipeg  26  41  11  63  255  279  
x-cllnched playoff berth  
y-cllnched division title  
Sunday'• Ge~  
Boston 3, Washington 3, tie  
Buffalo 6, Philadelphia 2  
Chicago 5, Minnesota 4  

N.Y. Rangers 3, N.Y. Islanders 1 Los Angeles 4, Edmonton 3, OT 
Monday'• a.n-
Late Game Not Included Montreal 3, Hartford 2, OT St. Louis at Minnesota, (n) 
Tooeday'e Gerooe New Jersey a1 N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. Pittsburgh at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Boston at Quebec, 7:35p.m. Chicago at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Buffalo at Washington, 7:35 p.m. Vancouver at Calgary, 9:35p.m. Edmonton at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
NHL LEADERS 
SCORING 
GM G A Gretzky, LA 76 38 121 Hull, Stl 74 81 42 Recchl, Pgh 75 40 71 Saklc, Que 76 47 59 Oates, Stl 57 25 81 Yzerman, Del 77 49 55 Cullen, Hart 74 35 68 Larmer, Chi 76 43 57 Fleury, Cal 76 47 50 Macinnis, Cal 76 25 71 Roenlck, Chi 75 40 52 Coffey, Pgh 73 22 66 Sandstrom. LA 66 44 43 Robitaille, LA 73 43 44 Janney, Bos 75 25 62 Neely, 8os 66 48 38 Leetch, NYR 77 16 70 Bourque, 8os 73 19 66 Francis, Pgh 77 22 62 Nieuwendyk, Cal 76 44 39 Lafontaine, NY I 72 40 43 Hawerchuk, Buf 76 29 54 Stevens. Pgh 76 38 44 Gagner, Min 69 39 40 Maclean, NJ 74 45 32 Verbeek. Han 76 41 36 
SHAMROCK SHUFFLE RESULTS 
Home Awey Dlv 

25-12·2 14-20-3 18-13-1 21·11-6 14-19-6 14-14·5 20-13-5 15-21·2 18-12·3 22-9-7 9-22·7 13-14-5 18-14-6 15-21·3 12·14-6 14·19-6 9-25-4 11-19·4 
25·9-5 17·14·7 17·8·5 22·12·5 16-17·6 14·12·4 14·13·11 15-17·6 11-12·7 18·16-5 13-20-5 9-15-6 8·22·8 7·26-5 8-12·8 
Home Awey Dlv 26·8·4 21-14·3 18·7·3 21·9-7 22·13-4 15-11·3 25-13-0 8-23·8 13-15-3 18·14·6 8·22·8 9-15-5 15-21·3 8·23-7 10-17·2 
24-9-5 20-14-5 18-8-4 27·8·2 17·17·5 16·9-3 20-15-3 15-21·2 11·15-2 17·17·5 10-25·4 10-19-1 17·18-5 9-23-6 10·14·6 
; 
Pit I'm 
159 16 
123 22 
111 44 
106 24 
106 27 
104 34 
103 95 
100 75 
97 134 
96 78 
92 76 
88 122 
87 104 
87 66 
87 8 
86 94 
86 40 
85 73 
84 70 
83 34 
83 40 
83 30 
82 129 
79 96 
77 144 
77 198 

Male  Female  
1. Paul Delays  1. Maria Rhomberg  
2. No. 259  2. Regina Hoagland  

3. 
Rich Wenles 

4. 
Robert Stevenson 

5. 
Tony Stornena 

6. 
Miguel Salazar, Jr. 

7. 
Steven Hanson 


B. Thomas Szon 

~o~~n~:~ez 

CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Optioned Norberto 
Martin, second baaeman, to Vancouver of the 
Pacllic Coast League. 
CLEVELAND INDIANS-Optioned Jeff Shaw 
and Mauro Gozzo, p~chers, to Colorado Springs of 
~u.~ .1.-.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~----.;~........................................................ , 
Are you creative,
the PacHic Coast League. Waived Sergio Valdez, 
pitcher, for the purpose of giving him his 
unconditional release. 
TEXAS RANGERS-Sent Kevin Belcher, 
111otivated and organized?outfielder; Monty Fariss, Infielder, and Bill Haaelman, catcher, 10 Oklahoma City of the American Association; and Gary Mleke, pitcher, to their minor league camp for reassignment. Released Charley Kerfeld, p~cher, uncondklonally. National U.gw 
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Signed John 
Yes?
Candelaria. ~cher, to a one-year contract. 
NEW YORK METS-Sent Anthony Young, pitcher; Todd Hundley, catcher; Chris Donnefa, Infielder, and Chuck Carr, outfielder, to their minor­
That llleans
league camp for reaaalgnment. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Placed Rick 
Parker, outfielder, on the 15-day disabled Rat. 
New Ycllti-Penn Laagw 
you are qualified!
AUBURN ASTR05-Narned Clark Crill coach. 
BASKETBALL 
USA BASKETBALL-Named Jeffrey Orrldge assistant executive director for legal affairs-corporate relations, and Joseph Buchanan 
Applications for ihe 1991-1992 yearbook siaff 
administrative assistant. 
N..ol\lll Buke.,.. A•oddon 
are now available at the Student Activities Office.
BOSTON CELTICS-Signed A.J. Wynder, guard, to a 10-day contract. 
315·LaFortune. Deadline has been extended io FOOTBALL Netlonal Footbool Laagw 
Wednesday April 3, 1991. 
CINCINNATI BENGALS-Signed Alex Gordon, outside linebacker. CLEVELAND BROWNS-Signed Charles Arbuckle~t end. LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Signed Ronnie Lon. defensive back. 
Apply now-you're perfect
COLLEGE QUINNIPIAC-Announced the retirement of Bun Kahn men's basketball coach. Named Bill Mecca men's basketball coach. 
for the job.
RICE-Announced the reslgnatlon,of David Hall, baseball coach, effective at the completion of the season. 
3. 
Shannon Clancy 

4. 
Tara McDOnald 

5. 
Pam Stricklin 

6. 
Katie Kinsella 

7. 
Keri O'Connor 

8. 
Betsy Paulsen 


~o~~.~~erring 

"---~ ~­
Tuesday, March 26, 1991 The Observer Page 15 

Raiders sign free agent Lott SPORTS SHORTS 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. (AP) -people I could still play this fered to take a $200,000 pay !lonnie Lott, left unprotected by game and play if effectively." cut, staying at his 1990 salary, the San Francisco 49ers despite Lott earned $800,000 in his to remain with San Francisco, being an All-Pro last season, final year with the 49ers and but that still was not agreeable has signed a two-year contract was scheduled to make $1 mil­to the 49ers, who already with the Los Angeles Haiders as lion in 1991. It's believed he'll shoulder the NFL's biggest a Plan B free agent. earn slightly more than $1 mil­payroll. 
Lott said Monday at a news lion per year with the Raiders. But Lott said he understood conference that the contract is "I feel it's going to be· a new their decision and" harbored no 
Hlgb school sophomore yanks jayelln from body not guaranteed and that he'll challenge, not only to play a ill feelings. • PORTLAND, Maine-Alfred Judd reacted on sheer adrenalin move from free safety to strong new position but to wear the ""They wanted me to play one w.hen a 10-footjavelin punctured his abdomen, passed through his safety with the Raiders. Silver and Black," he said. year and then possibly get in­left kidney and exited part way out his back.. The 15-year-old 
"Growing up as a kid, I always volved in the organization," Lott Uvermore High School sophomore gave a quick tug and yanked the javelin free. "It was just instinct. I just pulled it right out," he
Originally drafted as a emulated the Jack Tatums, the said. "I've told people that if I said in a telephone interview from Maine Medical Center, wherecornerback by the 49ers with George Atkinsons (two hard­was in their shoes I might have he was listed in satisfactory condition. The accident took placethe eighth overall selection In hitting former Raider defensive done the same thing, based on Friday afternoon during a track and field practice when Judd used 
1981, Lott switched to free backs). the philosophy of the the javelin to try to stop a discus that a teammaate had rolled In
safety in 1985. "I'm going to come in here and organization. 
his direction and was headed downhill. "The point went into the "I've always been committed play hard, play with enthusiasm "You've got to be objective ground and he went into the end of it," said Karen Erlandson, the 
to winning;'' Lott said. "If that and try to fit in. about it. Looking at the overall school's athletic dlrector. means playing strong safety, if "I'm going to come in here and picture, I don't sit here and say, that means playing cornerback, try to win a job. I've got my 'Man, they did the wrong thing.' if that means bringing water to work cut out for me." If I was a general manager, I E,umer N~ro Lgague team ntady for season my head coach, that's what I'm Assuming he's healthy, win­might have done the same •JESUP,a.-Wayne County hasn't had a baseball team since going to do." ning a job would seem to be the thing. the Negro League's Jesup Braves were disbanded 20 years ago. 
But one of the Braves' former players ls trying to revive the team.
Lott, 31, has been one of the least of Lott's worries. "They've been a firs.t-class or­Solomon Samples, now 75, played flrst base for the Jesup BravesNFL's premiere defensive play­"We'd like to welcome the ganization and they'll always be almost 60 years ago. Next month, he will watch as the new Bravesers for the past 10 years and great Ronnie Lott to the Raider a first-class organization. I begin their season in the amateur South Georgia-North Florida was a starter on four Super organization," Raiders coach think they did what they did in 
League. He hopes the team will help baseball become a
Bowl championship teams with Art Shell said. "When he was the best interests of the organi­ommunlty pastime, as the old Negro League club did. "Young
the 49ers. placed on the list, I said, zation." 
folks loved baseball back then. They didn't know anything else and 
Lott was sidelined late last 'Something's wrong here.' Lott is the 49ers' all-time 
it kept them out of trouble," he said. "Today, kids are messed up season when he strained both "I don't know how much speed record-holder in interceptions on drugs because they don't have anything to do." knees, and it was feared he had he's lost. We feel he can help (51), interception return damaged ligaments. But he re­our football team and that's yardage (643) and interceptions turned to the lineup during the why he's here." returned for touchdowns (5). He Dleio MQ[Ddona heading tor Argenttolan team playoffs and he was one of the Mike Harden played strong was credited with 721 tackles in •N PLES, Italy -Diego Maradona is said to be getting ready to 
oin Argentina's national soccer team for an exhibition Wednesday dominant defensive players for safety and Eddie Anderson free 129 regular-season games for against Brazil, which is likely to trigger another major disciplinethe NFC in his ninth Pro Bowl, safety for the Haiders last sea­San Francisco. 
problem with his Naples club. A spokesman for Napoli saidwhere he showed no effects of son. Harden wasn't one of the By signing with the Raiders, Monday that the player did not ask for permission. Italian clubs
the knee injuries. 37 players protected by the Lott will be coming home, so to mllllt let their foreign stars play in official international games, but"The knees are feeling linf1," t.P.am in the Plan B system. speak -he played his college can stop them from playing in exhibitions. Maradona did nothe said. "I've been able to play "We've got a couple of hard­ball at Southern Cal. 
announce that he was going to play against Brazil, but friends said a little basketball in addition to hitting guys (Lott and Anderson) "My family's here," he said. "I 
he would fly to Buenos Aires Tuesday. Maradona, who wants to rehab work. who can knock the ball loose told my parents Saturday night leave Italy at the end of the season, has been fined twice by the 
"That (the knees) was the from people," Shell said with a and they were enthused and ex­Italian league recently for leaving team practice and a crucial Cup main reason I had to play in the smile. cited to see me in this area ofitaly game. Pro Bowl. I just wanted to show Lott acknowledged that he of-again. 
SPIKE LEEJ INDIGO GIRLSI MAYA ANGELOUI BERTICE BERRY, CASINO NIGHT,PANAMA CITY BEACH, AND MORE ! ! 
WANT TO BE A PART OF ALL THIS? 
JOIN S.U.B.!!! 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE FOR THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS AT THE SECRETARY'S DESK ON THE SECOND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. DUE 
FRIDAY APRIL 5, 1991: 
MARKETING DEPARTMENI' 
Publicity: coordinates the account executives and the advertising for the events of each programming commission. 
Marketin~ Research: develops and compiles surveys to assist commissioners in planning events. 
Account Executives: coordinates all the advertising for a specific programming commiSSIOn. 
Artist: works with the account executive to design ads 
RELATIONS DEPARTMENI' External Relations: helps promote S.U.B. and its activities both on and off campus. Internal Relations: works to promote good communication and unity within S.U.B. itself. 
CONTROlLER'S DEPARTMENT 
Assistant Controllers: keep track of all financial transaction within S.U.B. and" acts as an budget advisor to programming commissioners. (Accounting and Finance Majors Preferred) PROGRAMMING DEPARTMENr: 

Campus Entertainment: presents comedians 
hypnotists, and other social events. ' 
Cultural Arts: promotes an awareness of 
music, literature, drama and dance. 
Ideas & Issues: sponsors lectures, informal 
talks, and debates on contemporary and 
controversial issues. 
Movies: is responsible for films shown every weekend . Musical Entertainment: bring bands of all sizes to campus. Services: plans and organizes various trips and services for students. Special Events: plans and organizes week long events and snecial festivals. Sophomore Literary Festival: a week long festival with readings and talks by visiting writers. Collegiate Jazz Festival: a weekend competition between visiting college jazz bands. Antostal: the weeklong spring festival Including a band, competitions, and activities. 
The Observer 

Page 16 Tuesday, March 26, 1991 
Boggs: 'Back tire narrowly missed running over my head' 
WINTER HAVEN, Fla. (AP) ­Dazed and hurting while stretched out on the ground, Wade BQggs looked up at his wife and asked, "Am I still alive?" 
The Boston Red Sox' five-time American League batting champion told Monday of his "pretty dramatic experience" Saturday night when he fell out of moving pickup truck driven by his wife, Debbie. 
"I'm just glad to be alive," Boggs said. "The back tire nar­rowly missed running over my head." 
Boggs, whose mother and grandmother were killed in a traffic accident in 1986, escaped with minor injuries treated first by his wife and then by Red Sox trainer Charlie Moss on Sunday. 
While the team traveled to Sarasota for a game with the Chicago White Sox Monday, Boggs remained at Chain O'Lakes Park. He walked gin­gerly, but got in some batting practice. 
"You'd never know he was hurting, he could hit in his 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
victory. 
Senior captain Kim Pacella said, "I think we were a little bit down over spring break, especially after we lost to Northwestern. It was important for us to come out and make a strong showing this weekend, especially against Michigan and Ohio State, which are regional matches that we lost last year. This was an important weekend for our confidence." 
The Irish indeed made a strong showing, downing Michigan 7-2 on Saturday. Tracy Barton defeated Christine Schmeidel, ranked 52nd nationally , 6-3, 6-4 as the Irish won five of six singles matches, four of which went the full three sets. Barton/Christy Faustmann and Ann Bradshawffholen chalked up very close straight-set wins at first and second doubles, 6-4, 6-4, and 7-6, 6-4, respectively. 
Said Irish coach Jay Louderback, "Against Michigan, we just played great. We won four tight singles sleep," batting practice pitcher Bill Maloney said after Boggs lined shots all over the outfield. 
Boggs said he and his wife had dinner at a nearby restaurant and when they left to go home, they took a left onto U.S. 17 South. 
"We hadn't gone far when the next thing I knew I was bounc­ing around on 17," he said. "I don't know what happened. Everything happened so fast. I don't know whether I leaned on the door or I kicked it somehow with my leg. But it opened and boom." 
Boggs said that he didn't know whether he had failed to close the door completely, but he blamed himself for not using the seat belt. 
"Ever since the death of my mother, I haven't got into a car without buckling the seat belt," he said. "For some unknown reason, I didn't Saturday night." 
Boggs said that his wife was driving "about 25 miles an hour, something like that" when he suddenly was thrown out. 
"The rear tire just missed running over my head and I 
matches, and our kids played really hard. The match was pretty heated, and it looks like we have a big rivalry starting. Everyone pulled together, and that strong play carried over to Ohio State." 
The Irish methodically dis­mantled the Buckeyes in a 9-0 romp. Tracy Barton did not play singles, and Harris and Faustmann led the way with 6­0, 6-1 and 6-2, 6-4 wins at first and second singles. Notre Dame did not drop a single set in either singles or doubles in the rout, one of the team's most dominating performances of the year. 
"Our kids did not want to lose to Michigan and Ohio State," said Louderback. "We 

Wade Boggs, five time American League batting champion, lucky to be alive after freak car accident. 
heard my wife screaming. imprint of a radial on my el-sore. There were no other cuts, When she got to me, the first bow." not even on my back from thing I askM her was, 'Am I Boggs said that at first he landing on the (road) shoulder." still alive?"' thought he was covered with Because Boggs went home and Displaying a nasty gash on his cuts and bruises, but "when I did not require hospitalization right elbow, Boggs said that he got home there was only the cut or formal medical treatment, no . thinks the tire may have caused and bruise on my elbow and my report was made to police or 
it. He quipped, "Now I have an right ankle was bruised and other officials. 
lost to them both last year, so we wanted to get back at both of them. 
After exacting revenge on their regional opponents, the Irish took on Boston College on Monday. Due to time con­straints, only five singles and one doubles match were played, with the doubles counting for two points. 
Notre Dame quickly took the doubles match, with Bradshawffholen romping to a 6-0, 6-0 shutout. The singles matches proved to be much tougher for the Irish, who eventually pulled out a 5-2 win, though it was closer than the score indicates. 
Tracy Barton dropped a 6-4, 6-1 match to Pam Piorkowski at 

SQUASH CLINIC 
TUESDAY, MARCH 26 JACC SQUASH COURTS 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS CLINIC .NOON~1 PM OPEN TO ALL INDIVIDUAL INSTRUCTION 1 :00 ~ 4:00PM CLINIC 6:00 ~.7:00PM STUDENTS ONLY ALL SESSIONS FREE OF CHARGE REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT NVA 239-5100 
PRESENTED BY THE UNITED STATES SQUASH RACQUETS ASSOCIATION AND NVA 
FEATURING COACHES FROM THE U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY AND PRINCETON UNIVERSITY NOVICE AND ADVANCED PLAYERS WELCOME 
first singles, and Christy Faustmann lost a close 7-5, 7-6 contest to Michelle Choa at 
· third. Harris again came from behind to win a thrilling match, 3-6, 6-4, 6-1 at second singles. Terri Vitale and Kim Pacella also posted singles wins for Notre Dame. 
Riding a four-match win streak, the Irish will host Michigan State on Thursday at 4 p.m. in their final home match of the season. 
Louderback said, "Michigan State has not been real strong in the past. They've been at the bottom of the Big Ten for the last couple years, and they are not any stronger this year. They shouldn't be as tough as the teams we played this weekend." 
The Irish will be playing the remainder of the season with­out Katie Clark, an important contributor at both singles and doubles, who is suffering from back problems. The depth of the team will be tested, as four of the final five matches are against ranked or near-ranked teams, in matches which will likely decide the post-season fate of the Irish. 
Pacella recollected upon the team's progression during her four years, saying, "It's really amazing how the team has come along. I'm amazed I'm still playing. The team has changed so much lately. Jay has turned this program completely around." 
.:············································· 
• . 

• ARE YOU STUCK AT ND FOil EASTEU?
•

• 
SEE: • 

• 
H CHORUS • •• •


• 
• 

• LIDE 
IN 

CHICAGO! 
SATURDAY, MARCil 30-SUNUA}', MAUCJJ 31 
•
• 
TRIP INCLUDES: .• ­
*TRANSPORTA'I'ION VIA UNI1'JW LIMO • 
• *LODGING AT THE IIIL1'0N • 
• *DINNER AND "A CHORUS UNE" A1' THE •
•
•
CANDLELIGHT DINNER NA YIIOUSE
==~~==~::;:::::::=:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~ *EASTER MASS 
*MUSEUMS AND SIIOPPfN(~
IfiPPi.lcfiTiorts HoW ilEirt'G""AccEPTED FOit : 
THE 1994 CLASS COUrtCIL 
VACANCIES: Dorm Representatives Service Commissioner Service Committee Member Social Commissioner Pilblicity Commissioner Publicity Committee Member 
Please see ~our reetor sometime this week (Mareh 25·29) for an applieation. 
$35 

ONLY 45 PLACES AVAILABLE 
SIGN UPS BEGIN MARCH 20 W/Tll THE 
SECRETARY ON 2nd FLOOR LAFONTUNF: 
• 

• 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•The 
Irish Heartlites fun runs are coming up April 11th. There will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Students and staff should start training now. 

•Scorekeepers 
are needed for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament. Anyone who is interested should contact Shelley Guilbaut at 283-2549. 

•Women's 
Bookstore basketball will have sign-ups on Tuesday, March 26th from 6-9 pm at the Sorin Room of La Fortune and the lobby of Haggar at St. Mary's. 

•Antostal 
mud volleyball sing-ups will be held Thursday and Friday April 4th and 5th from 4 to 6 pm in the S.U.B. office. For more information call Lou at 283-2071. Minimum two women per team. Entry charge is $5 per team. 

•WVFI 
Sportstalk from 8-9 pm talks about the NCAA tournament and the upcoming baseball season. Call the studio at 239-6400 to debate with the experts. 

•ND/SMC 
Salling Club will meet at 6:30 on Tuesday in the Boathouse. There will be information about practice, regattas, and lessons. Practice will be at 2:30 Tuesday and Wednesday this week. 

•Attention 
crew members: A very important meeting will be held Wednesday, April 3 at 7:30pm in 127 Nieuwland. Be there. 


Duke, NC familiar to Final Four 
DURHAM, N.C. (AP) -They told Mike Krzyzewski not to worry about winning when he got to Duke 11 years ago. 
Right. Just eight miles away was North Carolina and coach Dean Smith, models of consis­tency for nearly 30 years and all Krzyzewski had to do was keep the Blue Devils program afloat. 
"The athletic director just mentioned that we want to be competitive and we want good kids, to be educated, and repro­sent Duke," Krzyzewski said Monday. "Don't worry about winning. Maybe I was naive enough to believe that, and I'm still naive enough to believe that." 
Innocence aside, Krzyzewski came to Duke trying to smooth the hills and valleys which had marked the basketball program since the glory days of Vic Bubas. Now, it's Duke that's been to four straight national semifinals and five in the last six years, and North ~olina that's going for the first time in nine years. 
Yet, Krzyzewski won't mock the Tar Heel program. He won't compare his achievements with theirs, but he does say the improvement in Durham has benefitted both sides. 
"When you're competing against really good people, you get better," Krzyzewski said. "I think it's helped me greatly. I think it helps Dean maintain his hunger, the fact that we're good." 
There was a time when Duke was in a basketball famine, however. But not once, Krzyzewski said, did he hear from school officials trying to speed up the winning to keep up with the neighbors from Chapel Hill. In his 25 meetings with Smith, Krzyzewski is 8-17. 
''I've never considered it any pressure, with North Carolina there, or when N.C. State was doing it," Krzyzewski said. "Maybe that's the best thing because then we're able to de­velop our own program instead of trying to copy somebody else." 
When Bubas left in 1969, North Carolina had just finished the third of its three-year run in Final Fours. The Tar Heels lost the 1968 title game to UCLA and lost two consolation games. 
Duke had been to the Final Four in 1966 after winning the ACC championship. The Blue Devils lost to Kentucky in the national semifinals, but earned third place with a victory over Utah in the consolation game. 
Duke struggled with medi­ocrity after Bubas stepped down. North Carolina made two more trips to the Final Four in the 1970s and won four more ACC titles under Smith. 
Men's 
continued from page 20 ranked Mark Jeffrys, 6-4, 7-5. DILucia played with a back that had been troubling him since he suffered back spasms against UCLA on March 15. Also for Notre Dame, sopho­more Chuck Coleman defeated Gary Henderson 7-5, 6-3 and sophomore Ron Rosas defeated Tom Peacock 6-4, 6-3. Will \'or3yth loG! tn DaniP.) (ourr.ol 6-7, 6-4, 6-2 and sophomore Andy Zurcher lost to Per Nilsson 7-6, 6-4. The only doubles score 
recorded and needed was Zurcher and Forsyth's 2-6, 6-3, 6-1 win over Mississippi State's Jefferys and Nilsson. 
On Saturday, the Irish faced 11th-ranked South Carolina and swept all six matches. DiLucia defeated Johan Sunberg, a second semester freshman from Sweden, 6-3, 7­
5. Troubles continued for DiLucia as he went down on the court with more back spasms. He was able to continue the match, but was hospitalized later. 
Forsyth played his best match of the year defeating 17th-ranked David Hopper 6-1, 6-4. Coleman bested P.T. Langone 6-3, 6-1. Schmidt beat Andres Theuron 6-1, 2-6, 6-4. Zurcher defeated Oak Hahn Heisen 7-6, 4-6, 6-0 and Rosas defeated Manh Palos 6-3, 6-1. 
On Sunday, the Irish fell to ninth ranked Arizona State 5-l. DiLucia posted the only Irish win and his 19th straight in a gutsy match with Brian Gyetko. Once again, his back was both­ering him, but DiLucia stuck it out and won a tough three-set­ter, 6-4. 6-7, 6-1. 
-My back wa:; :;tiff whh;h concerned me, but I just tried to focus on getting my first serves in," said DiLucia about his back problems. 
DiLucia's performance gave him a clean sweep at the Blue-Gray and earned him Most Valuable Player honors. He is the first non-senior to earn the honor. 
"His play was nothing short of phenomenal," said Bayliss. "I'm really happy David was named MVP." 
However, the rest of the Irish were not as fortunate. Rosas had his best match of the year leading 5-2 in the second set only to lose 4-6, 7-5, 7-5 to Ross Matheson. Schmidt pulled a hamstring against South Carolina and was helpless against Joel Finnegan in a 6-3, 6-2 loss. Forsyth lost a two­and-a-half hour contest to Tom Lominsky, 7-5, 6-4. 
"Will played extremely well," said Bayliss. "He gave it his all." 
Zurcher fought hard but was overmatched by Bob Gamibo who beat him 6-1, 6-4. Coleman also lost 7-5, 6-2 to Dan Marting. 
DiLucia praised the play of the team. 
"I think the team rebounded well from the lost to UCLA with the South Carolina victory," said DiLucia. "No one expected it." 
Bayliss was also pleased with his team's performance. 
"The Blue-Gray is without a doubt one of the best and toughest tournaments in the country. There were some very good teams that came out of it 0-3 so I'm really pleased that we tied Texas Christian for third place," said Bayliss. 
FINANCE CLUB MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 26 AT 6:30P.M. 222 HAYES-HEALY 
*Any Questions-Contact Marina x1291 
ICS 

iiiiiiiiis~iiiiiiiii 
2BUCK 
TUESDAY 
5 p.m. to 12:30 Any 7" Sandwich 
$2.00 

(2 or morefor delivery) 
Softball 
continued from page 20 bled to left for the first hit off Linn. Ginnie Hartman sacri­ficed, and Erica Greiner came through with an RBI single. Valparaiso had a golden op­portunity to break the tie in the seventh. Ingram again led off with a double, and again Hartman sacrificed. However, McMurray tried to get Ingram at third and was unsuccessful. With runners at the corners 
and nobody out, Greiner grounded the ball to Kmak, who made a perfect throw to catcher Amy Folsom to nail Ingram at the plate. Given a reprieve, Linn proceeded to wriggle out of the jam with a pop-out and weak grounder. 
"It was a great play," Boulac said. "Ruth had to go into the hole a little bit to make the play. It was a tough throw to make in that situation, and we were very fortunate to execute the way we were supposed to. That's what won the ball game 
The Observer 
Join the more than 12,000 readers who have found the Observer an indespensible link to the two campuses. The Observer in your home for $25 a semester or $40 for a full year, 
The Observer 
P.O.Box Q 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Happy 21st Rodgers Where have all the years gone? 
for us." 
First, though, Notre Dame had to survive another Valparaiso scoring threat in the eighth when Michele Gregor tripled with one out. But Linn once again pitched out of trou­ble, getting Carla Reiter and Krista Bane to pop out. 
The Irish finally won it in the ninth when Crossen hit a lead­off single and was replaced by Alvarez. Pinch-hitter Kathy Vernetti laid down the sacrifice, but Crusader second baseman Stacy Witfill dropped the throw at first. 
After Folsom grounded to third, coach Boulac called for the suicide squeeze, and daughter Debbie executed to perfection, bringing home Alvarez with the winning run. 
"We have (the suicide play), but we don't do it often," he said. "But when you have the baserunners and one of your better bunters up, that's what you have to come with. 
"We're starting to play as a team. We did some things tonight when we were strug­gling in the second game where we pulled together and kept our intensity, and that's only going to help us as the season progresses." · 
Next up for Notre Dame is a doubleheader at Ball State (7­
11) this afternoon. The Cardinals have been struggling lately, having lost five of their last six games. 
Senior Kim Becker and freshman Michele McCorkle each hit .340 to lead Ball State in hitting-McCorkle also leads the Cardinals in stolen bases with nine. Junior Karen Oliver (4-5, 3.22 ERA) is the ace of the Cardinal staff. 


page 18 The Observer Tuesday, March 26, 1991 
Murphy optimistic despite weekend losses to UVA Walania leads Irish pitching in single win 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 

Sports Editor 
Despite losing two of three games to the Virginia Cavaliers over the weekend, coach Pat Murphy's Notre Dame baseball team has climbed in some polls. 

"The team actually rose in the Murphy ranking," related Murphy. "I feel like we played under a lot of adversity. I don't want to build excuses, because the trip was a good experience. We grew as a team and went through some hard times. 
"We had a 15 hour bus ride to get there and a 13 hour ride home. That makes things tough. We've also had some tough times academically lately, but we've still had very positive performances. At best, these things happen when everyone does not play up to their poten­tial. There were lots of positives for us. I refuse to worry about the national picture until we are together as a team." 
Skiles scores 31 in Magic win; Nets lose 16th straight on road 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP)-Scott Skiles scored 13 of his 31 points in the fourth quarter and the Orlando Magic used a 21­
Sophomore pitcher Alan Walania was the eye of the storm which rained on Notre Dame's weekend, as he pitched a complete game shutout in the first game of the Sunday double header. Walania, 4-2, fanned six while walking none and giv­ing up five hits. 
The Irish offense provided another bright spot, exploding for a 12-run, 12-hit attack. Frank Jacobs went two-for­three with two runs scored and three RBI in addition to knock­ing his seventh home run of the season. Mike Rooney drove in two runs while going a perfect three-for-three at the plate. Joe Binkiewicz also "dialed eight" for the first time this season, as Notre Dame scored in five of the seven innings. 
"Virginia is not a bad club," said Murphy, careful to give credit where it was due. "They aren't as good as we are, but we happened to lose two out of three. We could very easily have won two of three. Give some credit to Virginia. They played very well." 
Yet the wily coach was also careful to give blame where due. 
"We played under very ad­verse conditions," stated Murphy. "It was wet, rainy and the field was very different-it was half astroturf. Those are not excuses, but just the same, we had to make adjustments. 
"At this level, where we are playing all of these top teams-and Virginia also beat Georgia, the defending national champions, last week-anybody can beat anybody on any given day. I am very pleased with the way the team has responded to some challenges. We have more challenges ahead in Purdue and the Oscar-Mayer Tournament, which we are honored to have been invited to." 
Challenges aside, Murphy is­sued what is, effectively, a warning to the rest of the col­legiate baseball world: "Don't worry about us, we'll be back." 


13 spurt at the start of the rmal ,....,.,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,, period to pull away for a 115--:.•( ) ( 106 victory over the Golden State Warriors on Monday night. 
The victory was the third straight for the second-year Magic, which has won 11 of its last 15 home games and in­creased its victory total to 24 ­six more than in its inaugural season. 
Dennis Scott scored 25 points and reserve Jerry Reynolds added 23 for Orlando, which led 80-76 after three quarters. Skiles hit a pair of 3-pointers and Scott made one to fuel the decisive burst that enabled the Magic to open a 101-89 lead with just over five minutes re­maining. 
Golden State got 33 points from Tim Hardaway and 32 from Chris Mullin. 
Bullets 113, Nets 1 06 
LANDOVER, Md. (AP) -John Williams scored a season-high 24 points and Harvey Grant added 20 as the Washington Bullets won their third straight game and handed New Jersey Nets its 16th consecutive road loss. 

New Jersey has lost 26 of last 27 road games and 30 35 overall. The Nets' only vic­tory away from home in the last four months was at Miami on Jan. 26. 
The Nets made 16 of 22 shots and led 38-29 after the first quarter, but shot just 8-for-23 in the second quarter and trailed 60-56 at halftime. Washington led by 10 after three quarters and the Nets got no closer than six points the 
restoftheway. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!!~!!~~~~ 


-------------~-----­
--------------------------, 
Thursday, March 26, 1991 The Observer page 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
3:30-4:30 p.m. Presentation: "Introduction to Resume Expert/ 
ACROSS 32 In favor of 61 Olive-jar liquid 
Paula Cook, ND Career Counselor, Career & Placement 
33 Caviar

1 Canadian prov. 62 Stalk
Conference Hoom. Sponsored by Career & Placement Services. 
35 Law since March 4, 1789 5 Be at ease 63 Against 

9 Remove 
7 p.m. Film: "Aguirre: Wrath of God." Annenberg Auditorium, 40 Neckwear 64 Parties for
clothing malesTho Snito Museum. 
14 Government 41 Smith and Hirt 
65 Inflection

site 42 Not a soul 7-11 p.m. Film Festival: "After the Warming, Part I" (7 p.m.-9 15 Robert--66 Animal with
43 Land of-­
hoofsp.m.); "After the Warming, Part II" (9 p.m.-11 p.m.), Room 16 Wipe off 

46 Norman city 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Sponsored by Students for 17 Kind of mine 47 Fur piece Environmental Action. Festival Part of SEA Pre-Cycling 18 Father DOWN
48 Unit of electrical Campaign. 19 Belief resistance 1 Helper: Abbr. 
20 "Land of the 
49 Guarantee of 
2 First wife offree"

9 p.m. Film: "The Gospel According to Saint Matthew." freedoms in 20 Jacob
23 Compass point Across
Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum. 3Story
24A Kennedy 58 Ancient Greek 
4 Alaskan island 25 Door position port
10 p.m. Campus-wide Penance Service. Sacred Heart Church. 27 Minister or 5 Stand fast 
59"--the wild 

Opportunity for individual confession follows. rector blue yonder" against
_LE;.;C;..T_U_R_E_S;....________________ JoJohn Jacob 
6 Select 
60 Statesman Elihu-7 Withered 

a --off (irate)
3:30 p.m. Heilly lectureship in chemical engineering: ------------­"Macrotransport Processes: Generalized Taylor Dispersion ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Game dog Phenomena," Howard Brenner, Massachusetts Institute of 10 Walks firmly Technology, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. Sponsored by chemical 11 ~~t~~~ or engineering. 12 Words of 29 Opposite of 44 Going out, as 51 Lamb's pen 
midnight the tide nameunderstanding JOAn A.B.A. 45 Sounds 52 Collection of4 p.m Lecture: "Memory Training For Healthy Older Adults," ~~~~tt1f 13 Cats and namesMartha Storandt, Washington University, Room 104 Center for canaries member 46 Bumper plating 53 Not fooled byContinuing Education. Sponsored by psychology department. R7+7+.-+::+=-31 This also is 35
21 Nerve: Comb. 48 Frequently 
54 Alum

Across 49Keep-on 55 Sharpen
F-+:--:++.-:-1 form 
32 Wayne and 

4:30 p.m. Biological sciences seminar: "Olfactory Learning in B'-:+.':-loil (check)
-7+::+.=-+:"+=+.71 22 Begin 56 Carry
Worth: Abbr.

tho Honey Bee; The Complex Control of Feeding Behavior," 50 Feel pain 57 Move slightly~Ell~~~-25 Bethlehem 34 Chemical suffix
Brian Smith, Ohio State University, Room 283, Galvin Life ~ product 36 Of one's birth Science Center Auditorium. Sponsored by biological science. 26Ad-­Answers to any three clues in thiscommittee 37 Like a fox puzzle are available by touch-tone 27 Hawaiian dish 38 Del.aware Indian
7 p.m. Lecture: "Corporate Women and Minorities," Marcia t-.:;..B-=+~ phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 28 Sky hunter 39 Foot part minute).
Gillespie, Ms. Magazine, editor. O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint L.:.:..L.:..:.J....:....I...:.. Mary's College. Sponsored by Student Activities Board, student government and College's Office of Minority, International and Non-Traditional Student Life at Saint Mary's College. 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

7:30 p.m. Lecture: "The Thirteenth Disciple: A Call to the Troubles of the time," Joan Chittister, visiting scholar, Saint Mary's College, Keenen-Stanford Chapel. Sponsored by Year of Women. 
8 p.m. Lecture: "Knights of Columbus Notre Dame Council #1477" by Edward Malloy, Knights of Columbus Building. Sponsored by The Knights of Columbus Notre Dame Council # 1477. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Batter Fried Perch Roast Turkey Fettucini Alfredo Cloverleaf Rolls 
Saint Mary's 
Oven Broiled Chicken Beef/Bean Burrito Fresh Vegetable Pasta 

Deli Bar Saving on transportation costs, some pioneers were known to head west on covered skates. 
JAY HOSLER
SPELUNKER 


CALV.. AHD HOBBES BILL WAITERSON I·IHlO, Mf..i t Wl\i? ~ '{00 

!>NO \F ~00 1\\\\11\<. 
(.A~ 'iOJR CJ\1'.1 I\11'20'N 
'(OJ 0.\11 Gtt M~ 

~FOR 'ffiEM IN f>.. 
800\:S ~ ~CTII'!G

'fOIJ ;> PUDDLt OR 
~IJHI \'J~\RDtR 
~Mt.n.\1"'6 ;> 
\\-\(>.~ IJSIJ~l. 

\1-\1\IIK r>«if..\N' ... 
I 



..... 
Sports 

page 20 Tuesday, March 26, 1991 
Tanya Williams named All-American in swimming 
Irish swimmer places 8th in the NCAA 400 individual medley; sets new University record 
By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
Sophomore sensation Tanya Williams made a major Irish inroad on the national swim­ming scene at the NCAA Women's Swimming and Diving Championships. Williams be­came Notre Dame's first All­American swimmer this week­end in Indianapolis. 
Since Notre Dame nabbed Williams in 1989 she has made Irish history. Last year, Williams, a nationally-ranked recruit, was the first Irish swimmer to qualify for the NCAA's. Now she has added to her accolades by earning her frrst All-American title. 
Williams placed eighth in the 400 individual medley in a uni­versity record setting time, 
4:19.88. Irish coach Tim Welsh felt Williams' performance achieved two significant ac­complishments. 
"For Tanya, I think getting to the big fmal with the big girls is the first of several. It's the be­ginning of her claiming as a collegiate swimmer. She needs to take the 400 individual med­ley, remember it and build on it and go from there," said Welsh. "For the program, last year she qualified (for NCAA's) and opened up the door for qualify­ing. This year she qualified in faster times and opened the door for All-Americans at Notre Dame. 

"Now we can talk to the best athletes with evidence that our team has progressed to the point where we qualify for the meet and score and become All­Americans," added Welsh. 
William's scored 11 points to rank the Irish 30th out of 159 Division I schools that sponsor swimming. Notre Dame tied with Princeton and Indiana in a field where only 158 individual swimmers qualified for the NCAA's nationwide. 
Last year's champion, the Texas Longhorns, captured frrst (746 points) ahead of Stanford (653 points), Florida (353) and California-Berkeley (27 5). Since women's athletics joined the NCAA in 1982, only three schools have won the national 

Photo courtesy of ND Sports Information 
Sophomore Tanya Williams became Notre Dame's first All-American swimmer after her performance in the 
NCAA Championships. title -Florida, Stanford and winning three events and earn­record in 4:05.19 and Mary T. Texas, and since 1983 no one ing Swimmer of the Year Meager's 200 butterfly meet else has cracked the top three honors. Sanders broke Tracy record in 1:54.17. in the final standings. Caulkin's 200 individual medley CBS televised the NCAA 
Stanford freshman Summer American record in 1:57.06, Championships and will air the Sanders highlighted the meet, Janet Evan's 400 i.m. meet event on Sunday, March 31. 
Irish tennis teams closing in on NCAA tournament bids 
Dilucia named MVP of Classic; team finishes 3rd 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame's men's tennis team had a very successful weekend in Montgomery, Alabama. The team tied for third place with Texas Christian in the prestigious Blue-Gray Invitational and junior Dave DiLucia was named the tournament's Most Valuable Player. 
On the first day of play, the Irish defeated Mississippi State 5-2. Sparking the Irish victory was sophomore Mark Schmidt's three hour come from behind win. Schmidt lost the first set 4-6 to Christope Damiens and was down in the second set when he turned things around. His 4-6, 6-3, 7-5 victory gave Notre Dame a 4-2 edge in the 5 point match going into doubles play. 
Irish coach Bob Bayliss was impressed with Schmidt's play. "He showed what he's always shown-his ability to play error free tennis at crunch time," said Bayliss. 
At number-one singles, DiLucia, ranked third in The Observer 1 Garr Schwartz match at third, with Doran and Terri Vitale, playing the nation, won his 17th straight by defeating 22nd-The women's tennis team recovered from a disappointing spring together for the first time, chalking up a 6-3, 6-2 see MEN'S! page 17 break to sweep four matthes over the weekend. see TENNIS/ page16 
Strong pitching leads Irish softball to sweep of Valparaiso 

Women take four important matches at Eck Pavilion 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 
Playing to redeem themselves after a disappointing spring break trip, the Notre Dame women's tennis team swept a four-match long weekend at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Using power and speed, the Irish defeated Oklahoma and Michigan, overwhelmed Ohio State, and finally shook off the challenge of a stubborn Boston College team to raise their record to 13-6. 
On Friday, the Irish squeaked past Oklahoma 5-4 in a very tight match. Regular top-singles player Tracy Barton was rested, so Melissa Harris moved up to the number-one slot. Continuing her strong play, Harris won a thrilling 5-7, 7-5, 6-1 match over Stacey Bullman, ranked 53rd in the country, after being down 5-7, 1-5. 
Lisa Tholen, Kim Pacella, and Kristy Doran all posted singles wins for the Irish. Following losses at first and second doubles, Notre Dame clinched the 

By RENE FERRAN _ Associate Sports Editor 
For the third time in four days, the Notre Dame softball team swept a doubleheader from an unsuspecting visitor. 
Monday afternoon, the victim was Valparaiso (9-11). The Irish (11-12) pounded out 11 hits in the opener in an 8-0 victory. In the nightcap, they staved off two excellent Crusader scoring chances in the scvonth and eighth innings before squeezing out a 2-1 win in the bottom of the ninth. 
In the rrrst game, sophomore Staci Alford faced two batters over the minimum in pitching a two-hit shutout. The Baton Rouge, La. native struck out 10 batters, walk-ed none and was behind in the count to only three hitters. 
"I love this warm weather; it makes it so much easier to throw," Alford said. "I felt good out there, and I had great defense behind me that really helped me out." 

Alford dropped her earned run average to 1.63 in raising her record to 4-2. Her steady improvement from some early­season difficulties-she has won three straight outings, giving up only two runs in 21 innings-is a good omen for the Irish. 
"Staci's been throwing very well since we've come back from our spring trip," said Notre Dame coach Brian Boulac. ·"All she needed was to get a little confidence in herself. She's really tough, and we needed her to come back and give us solid pitching." 
The Irish broke onto the scoreboard in the third inning. Back-to-hack triples by Carrie Miller and Ruth Kmak, com­bined with a wild pitch, gave Notre Dame a 2-0 lead. It pushed three more runs across in both the fourth and fifth in­nings to break the game wide open. 
The second game was a pitcher's duel between Valparaiso's Erin Reiter (4-7) and Notre Dame's Missy Linn (5-7). 
The Irish pushed a run across in the third. Casey McMurray led off with a single. Lisa Miller sacrificed, and Carrie Miller was hit by a pitch. One out later, Kmak reached base on an error by Reiter. The error proved costly when Reiter walked Rachel Crossen on four pitches to force in pinch-runner Amy Rueter. 
The Crusaders tied the score in the fifth. Karen Ingram dou­
see SOFTBALU page 17 









