VOL. XXIII NO. 142 FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1991 · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
One last look 
Senior week gave these Saint Mary's students a final opportunity to relive their college memories and look at their yearbook, the Blue Mantle. Sitting in the Rock Garden at Saint Mary's College are, from left to right: Patty Greipp, Meg Fallon, Chris Ferry, Erin Kelley, Patricia Branecki, Kathleen McMahon and Donna Combs. 
Saint Mary's to graduate 480 at 144th commencement 
By MONICA YANT Sister Joan Chittister, a writer ceremonies, which will be held News Editor and commentator, will deliver in the Angela Athletic Facility the commencement address, in the event of inclement 
Saint Mary's College will and 1991 Valedictorian Beth weather. honor almost 500 graduates at Renaldi will deliver her Honorary degrees will be pre­Its 144th annual commence­valedictory speech. sented to Bishop John D'Arcy of ment tomorrow at noon in the The College expects 480 the Diocese of Forth Wayne­Court of Le Mans Hall. graduates to participate in the South Bend and to Sister Alice 
Buynak to deliver ND valedictory 
By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
Becoming valedictorian wasn't always a goal for Notre Dame Senior Hobert Buynak, who said, "I just tried to do the best I could." 
Buynak, a biological science major, will leave Notre Dame with a cumulative G.P.A of 
3.986 out of 4.0, the only tar­nish on his record being an A­minus in Western Civilization freshman year. 
He will deliver the 1991 vale­dictory at Sunday's com­mencement exercises at the 
J.A.C.C. Buynak said his vale­dictory will allude to Shel Sil­verstein's story, "The Giving Tree," to convey the message that it Is now the graduating 


Renaldi named Saint Mary's valedictorian 
Roben Buynak 
seniors' turn to give of them­selves to society. A resident of Dillon Hall, he supplemented his impressive 
G.P.A. with various extracur­ricular activities over the past four years. He is a member of the academic fraternities Alpha Epsilon Delta (Pre-med) and Phi Beta Kappa. 
He has also served as assis­tant sports editor for the Dome, Notre Dame's yearbook. 

Buynak has volunteered at various medical centers, including North Indiana State Developmental Hospital in South Bend. He served as academic commissioner of Dillon Hall and was also a member of Dillon Hall government. 
Buynak is from North Canton, Ohio, where he was vale­dictorian of his high school class. He plans to attend Duke University Medical School after graduation and said he is unde­cided on which field of medicine he will pursue. 
By MONICA YANT News Editor 
Beth Renaldi attributes much of her academic success at Saint Mary's College to the fac­ulty who supported her and "were always so willing to help me and encourage me to do my best." 
Henaldi, the 1991 Valedicto­rian at Saint Mary's, will grad­uate with a grade point average of 3.969. Three A-'s-two in political science and one in the­ology-were all that separated her from a perfect 4.0 average. 


and minored In French. 
"I never focused on being Valedictorian, it was never my goal," Renaldi said. In fact, Re­naldi said she was not aware that she was at the top of her class until she was notified in the mail. 
"When I got the letter, I was really surprised," said the South Bend resident and grad­uate of St. Joseph's High School. 
Renaldi will deliver the vale­dictory address at Saint Mary's 
see RENALDI/ page 4 




Notre Dame hosts 146th graduation 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 

Over 2200 degrees will be awarded Sunday as the University of Notre Dame conducts Its 146th Commencement ceremonies at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Margaret O'Brien Steinfels, editor of Commonweal magazine, will give the com­mencement address. She and twelve others, including Irish Prime Minister Charles Haughey, NBC News correspondent Jane Pauley, and U.S. Surgeon General Antonia Novello will receive honorary degrees from the University. 
Robert Buynak, the 1991 valedictorian, will deliver the valedictory address to the some 1700 undergraduate and 578 graduate degree recipients. 
This year marks the University's 19th commencement since admitting female baccalaureate students in 1972. The com­mencement is intended to reflect the "Year of Women" theme of the past academic year. Steinfels Is the fourth woman to give the commencement address, and nine of the 13 honorary degree recipientc; are women. 
Besides receiving an honorary degree, former 
see ND I page 4 

Gallin, executive director of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities. 
The President's Medal for community service and contri­butions to the life of the College will be given to Mary Fran Meekison, of Napoleon, Ohio. 
Saint Mary's will give special recognition to the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross for its 150 years of commitment to the field of education. 
see SMC 1page 4 


Hall. 4 p.m. Baccalaureate Mass. Angela Athletic Facility, Saint Mary's .¢oii$Qe. :::~v;:;. . .··.· .. .•.. .···. 
6:30 p.m. University 06nctrt Band lawn concert. Main Building Mall. 8 p.m. Graduate School reception. Auditorium, CCE. 
.p~m· Liturgical Choir ~m~ert. Sacred Heart Church. pJn;; Graduation daneG:"1'3oyce Athletic and Convocation (JACC), North Dome. 
11 a.m. Sunday Masses. Sacred Heart Parish Crypt. C:ArAtlrtn~•IA!I for graduates receiving Master of Business ion from Notre Dame's College of Business mm·i!dr~atitl.n. Stepan Center. · $8f"\#iCG f()r law School graduates. Sacred Heart 
2 p.m. Commencement exercises, University of Notre Dame. . JAqC. . . . •..·· , 4;30 p.m~~;.ceremoniei•f(lf graduates of Notre Dame's law SchOOl. Reflecting pool of Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Class of '91 is ready to play their songs 

My mother read me Crescent Dragonwagon's "Will It Be Okay?" when I was small, a story about a little girl who, over­whelmed by the life that lies before her, seeks her mother's reassurance that she will be able to handle the problems she will Alison Cocks encounter. Editor-in-Chief 
Her mother answers Emeritus each of the child's ------­concerns, instilling in her daughter the con­fidence to cope with the unexpected. 
"But what if snakes come in the night?" the child asks. 
"You keep a flute by your bed and play a song, and the snakes hear, and are quiet, and happy, and love you," she says. 
When I thought about that story, I decided it was too bad the mother in it is merely the author's creation. She could probably make a fortune counseling the Class of 1991. 
Some of us are ready to leave Notre Dame. Others plug their ears when the word "graduation" is mentioned. But I'd he sur­prised to hear of any members of our class, no matter how lucrative their post-graduate opportunities may be, who aren't secretly asking themselves, "Will it be okay?" 
Our days of fearing snakes in the night are through. So are four years of parietals, of alcohol policies and of thinking that we'd left our parents at home, only to discover that our friends in the Main Building like to mother us, too. 
Looming ahead of us is a life of setting our own policies. No one is going to tell us when to buy insurance, pay a mortgage or switch careers. The thought of this complete independence excites me sometimes, and daunts me at others, when I realize that, for the first time in my life, I will he living completely on my own. 
Although we roll our eyes sometimes, ex­asperated and convinced that the real world is nothing like this sheltered campus, our experience here does prepare us for the challenge of independence. The mother in my childhood story told her daughter that she will have the wherewithal to cope with tough situations. My Notre Dame career taught me a similar lesson. This university isn't perfect, but neither is any other place we'll call home. I have not agreed with every decision this sometimes heavy-handed administration has made. But I have learned not to accept everything I'm told passively, and that often it's worth it to fight for change. 
At the same time, I have to acknowledge that even my least favorite decisions were made with good intentions. Notre Dame's unique, caring spirit affects all of us; if we take a piece of it with us, chances are we'll always find the strength to charm the snakes. We'll play our songs differently, but thanks to our time here, we will all play them well. 
The child in the story runs out of problems before her mother runs out of answers. Finally, at the end, she asks, "So it will be okay?" 
The mother confidently replies, "Yes, my love, it will." 
Today's Staff Circulation 
Bill O'Rourke News Pete Loftus Monica Yant 
Vle~nt 
Joe y 
Accent GraphicsJohn O'Brien Ann-Marie Conrado 
Sports Illustrations Dave McMahon Jake Frost Kelley Tuthill 
Spacial Section Scoreboard Lisa Eaton Dave McMahon 
Lisa Eaton Photographers 
Marguerite Schropp Production John Rock Michelle Wood SeanFaman Michael Krause 
Lab Techs Systems John Rock Fntz Valsaint SeanFaman 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The ObSBfVet' is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday, May 17,1991 
FORECAST: 
Hot today with a 50 percent chance of showers. Showers Saturday, clearing Sunday. 
TEMPERATURES: 
Denver 
Detroh Fori Wayne Honolulu Houston ndianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Maple Glen Miam Beach Moscow New York Paris Philadelphia 
Rome St. Louis San Francisco Seanle South Bend Spokane Tokyo Washington. D.C 
H L 73 53 88 66 
54 39 64 51 
87 57 82 67 65 47 87 61 90 55 86 71 90 68 85 57 55 48 77 56 77 50 87 67 86 78 64 46 84 61 57 39 87 68 75 45 83 66 68 49 
54 43 
90 53 64 37 
72 64 
81 65 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
ND ceremonies shown on television 
Those persons unable to attend the Notre Dame commencement in person May 19 may watch the cere­monies live and free of charge on closed circuit television at the Center for Continuing Education (CCE), located on the east side of Notre Dame Avenue directly opposite the Morris Inn. 
The CCE will be open throughout the day and can accommodate up to 700 viewers in its various meeting facilities. Seating for more than 400 will be available in the auditorium. Rooms will be available for seating beginning at noon. 
Welsh elected to Board of Trustees 
Robert Welsh Jr., president of Welsh Oil Inc., has been elected to the Board of Trustees of the University of Notre Dame. Welsh is a resident of Valparaiso, Ind. and 1956 Notre Dame graduate. 
He is a past president of the Indiana Oil Marketers Association and a past national brand chairman of the Phillips Petroleum Company. Welsh serves as director of the Gainer Company and Gainer Bank, as well as a member of the Chief Executives Organization. 
Hall receives study scholarship 
Mary Hall, a senior anthropology and government major at Notre Dame, has been awarded a Raoul Wal­lenberg Scholarship at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem for the 1991-92 academic year. 
She is one of 10 students nationwide who will participate in the 11-month program designed specifically for the Wallenberg Scholars at the Hebrew University. 
The program gives students a chance to meet with Israeli leaders and allows them to pursue individual academic interests. 
ND pollution center receives grant 
Notre Dame has met the conditions of a $500,000 challenge grant from the Kresge Foundation to renovate 


OF INTEREST 
• 
Seniors volunteering next year are reminded to attend the celebration honoring their service at Notre Dame and their commitment during the coming years. The celebration will be tomorrow at 11 a.m. in Washing­ton Hall, with a reception in Theodore's to follow. 

• 
Volunteer opportunities with the Holy Cross As­sociates are still available for graduating seniors. Inter-


and purchase equipment for its Center for Bio­engineering and Pollution Control, according to Michael Kenahan, director of foundation and corporate relations. 
The grant was made in May 1989 as a feature of the Kresge Foundation's Science Initiative program, a project designed to encourage institutions of higher education to improve or replace needed laboratory equipment and facilities. 
Full payment was contingent on NO's raising $2 million for the research center over the next two years. 
Peace Institute named for Joan Kroc 
Notre Dame has named its Institute for International Peace Studies after the institute's benefactor, Joan Kroc of LaJolla, Calif. She is the widow of Ray Kroc, founder of the McDonald's Restaurant chain. 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies was originally the brainchild of Father Theodore Hesburgh, former president of ND and a lifelong advocate of nuclear arms control and worldwide peace initiatives. 
Kroc has given $12 million to establish and house the institute. Dedication of the building, the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, will be September 13-14 on campus. 
NO-based company develops aid 
A new diagnostic aid to help prevent heart attacks and strokes has been cleared for use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, according to its developer, Notre Dame-based American Biogenetic Sciences Inc. (ABS). The aid, the Cadkit, quickly and accurately measures levels of fibrinogen in patients' blood. 
An elevated fibrinogen level is a major risk factor in developing coronary artery disease. Cadkit is expected to be used in routine physical examinations in men older than 35 and in post-menopausal women, as well as to monitor fibronogen levels during clot-dissolving therapy. 
The test is expected to be available in Europe before mid-year. ABS was founded in 1983 and conducts research at Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland, as well as atND. 
ested seniors should contact Mary Ann White (239-5521) or Mary Ann Roemer (239-5319) at the Center for Social Concerns for more information. 
• The South Bend Chamber Singers' will perform their final concert tonight at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Audito­rium, Saint Mary's. Graduating seniors from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will be admitted free with student IDs. 
Friday, May 17, 1991 The Observer page 3 


CSC to host annual 'volunteer send-off' Saturday 
By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors intending to participate in social service programs fol­lowing graduation will take part in the second annual Senior Volunteer Send-OIT Saturday at 11 a.m. in Washington Hall. 
University President Father Edward Malloy will preside as the participants in the cere­mony pray, read from scripture, light candles, and sing the prayer of Saint Francis. 
U.S. Hep. Timothy Hoerner (D­South Bend) and 1978 ND alumnus Urian Shappell, vice president of William LeMan, Inc., will address the students. 
Tim Hoerner was assistant rector of Grace Hall in the early 1980s and was active in various volunteer organizations, said his mother Mary Ann Roemer, coordinator of senior and alumni programs at the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). He helped start the annual Grace Hall Hun for Charity. 

A few years after graduating from ND in 1978, Shappell did volunteer work with his wife in New Orleans, said Mrs. Roemer. 
The speakers will give "supportive words" to parents of volunteers who might be worried about their children's career plans, she said. 
Some 130 seniors, their classmates, friends and families are expected to attend the cele­bration. About 175 to 200 graduating seniors will partici­pate in volunteer programs, but not all have signed up for the ceremony. 
Those who have not signed up are welcome at the ceremony, Mrs. Roemer said. 
Most domestic volunteer pro­grams last one year, while overseas programs consist of two years of service, according to Mrs. Roemer. 
Senior Rob Pasin, former student body president, will be participating in Amate House, a Chicago Archdiocese volunteer program in which 15 volunteers live together in a house on the south side of Chicago, all par­ticipating in various volunteer positions throughout the city. Pasin will teach sixth grade at a low-income Catholic school for one year. 
"Different programs at ND have gotten me interested in (volunteering)," said Pasin. "It will be good for me to do for a year and everyone I've talked to who has done it says it's a great opportunity for growth and development." 
At least two other ND seniors are participating in Amate House, said Pasin. 
Mary Susan Twohy, a senior anthropology major, will teach theology at a Jesuit high school on a Sioux reservation in Pine Ridge, South Dakota. She will live in a community of about 20, all participating in the Red Cloud Volunteers program. 
Twohy attributed her interest in volunteering to her involve­ment in various programs at the esc over the past four years, including her Appalachia summer service project. Her in­terest in anthropology had an influence on her decision to volunteer on an Indian reservation, she said. 
After her two-year commit­ment at the reservation, Twohy is tentatively planning to go into international peace studies at the master's level. 
Among the other organiza­tions for which this year's se­niors have become volunteers are the Apostolic Volunteers, the Archdiocese of New York, the domestic and international programs of the Holy Cross As­sociates and the Jesuit Renewal Center. 
The Jesuit Volunteer Corps, the Peace Corps, Peace Place, the Samoa Teaching Program, Teach for America, Quest, the Vincentian Service Corps, and the Xavierian Brothers in Bo­livia are additional organiza­tions for which seniors have volunteered. 

O'Meara selected fellow of arts and science academy 
Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame provost Timothy O'Meara has been selected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 
O'Meara joins the select com­pany of 3,400 leading figures from academia, government, business, and the creative arts, including 152 Nobel laureates and 59 Pulitzer Prize winners, who have been recognized by the 211-year-old Academy for their "distinguished contribu­tions to science, scholarship, public niTairs, and the arts." 
O'Meara, who also holds the Howard J. Kennat C.S.C., chair in mathematics at Notre Dame, is entering his second decade as the University's provost. As chairman of a special Univer­sity committee on Priorities and Commitments for Excellence (PACE), he led a two-year reexamination of Notre Dame's educational mission that became the blueprint for the academic strides taken by the University during the past eight years. 
In the early 1980s he also was instrumental in establish­ing a Notre Dame presence in the People's Republic cf China. 


REMINDER TO 


SENIORS 
PEACE CORPS, JESUIT VOLUNTEERS, HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
VOLUNTEERSENDOFF 
WASHINGTON HALL SATURDAY, MAY 18 11:00 AM 
Reception innediately following for parents, family, and friends in Theodores. 
EVERYONE WECOME 
Dayton, joining such person­ books on mathematics at the  
ages as historian John Tracy  graduate research level. He  
Ellis and theologian Rosemary  and  fellow  Notre  Dame  
Haughton  as  a  Roman  professor of mathematics Alex  
Catholic  distinguished  for  Hahn recently published a new  
achievement in scholarship and  book welcomed as the standard  
the intellectual."  reference in its field.  
Two of O'Meara's books have  
A native of South Africa edu­ been translated into Russian.  
cated at the University of Cape  •  In addition to O'Meara this  
Town, O'Meara received his Ph.  year's newly-elected Academy  
D. from Princeton University in  fellows from educational and  
1953 and from 1957-62 alter- science administration include  
Timothy O'Meara nated between the Princeton  former Smith College president  
A member of the board of the faculty and the Institute for  Jill  Ker  Conway,  National  
Association of Catholic Colleges Advanced Study.  Science Foundation director  
and Universities O'Meara re­He joined Notre Dame's de- Walter Massey and Harvard  
ceived the 1988 Marianist partment of mathematics in  University president-elect Neil  
1962 and has written three  Rudenstine. 

award from the University of 
175 to receive MBA degrees Sunday 
Special to The Observer John Keane, dean of the Col­
lege of Business Administration, 
Some 175 graduate students will distribute the diplomas, in the University of Notre and Alvah Chapman, Jr., Dame's College of Business chairman of the executive Administration will receive committee of Knight-Hidder, Master of Business Administra­Inc., will address the students. tion diplomas at a ceremony beginning at 9:30 a.m. Sunday A graduate of The Citadel in Stepan Center. College, Chapman began a ca­reer in journalism with the Ledger-Enquirer in Columbus, Ga., after World War II, even­tually joining the Knight news­paper organization in 1960. 
In 1962 he became vice presi­dent and general manager of the Miami Herald and 11 years later became president of Knight Newspapers. 
TRADE IN YOUR CAP AND GOWN AT JORDAN'S AUTOMALL 

FOR SOME DRIVING GLOVES 
Ford Credit puts qualified college graduates in the fast lane with the Ford/Mercury College Graduate Purchase Program. Jordan's Automall can arrange special financing through Ford Credit and $500 cash back from Ford Motor Company. 
Here's all you have to do to qualify: graduate with a Bachelor's or advanced degree between October 1, 1989 and December 31, 1991; have verifiable employment beginning within 120 days of vehicle pw-chase; have a salary sufficient to cover living expenses as well as a car payment. Although a prior credit history isn't necessary, if you have one, it must be satisfactory to Ford Credit. 
So get a compartment for your driving gloves. Visit Jordan's Automall and take advantage of the Ford/Mercury College Graduate Purchase Program. 
FORD CREDIT GETS YOU GOING. 
JORDAN'S
Ford 

Credit 609 E. Jefferson at Cedar, Mishawaka 259-1981 Toll-Free 1-800-837-1981 Hours: M, Tu, Th 8-9; W, F, Sa 8-6 



page4 
ROTC to commission 145 seniors Saturday 
Special to The Observer 
Some 145 graduating seniors from Notre Dame's ROTC pro­grams will become officers in four branches of the U.S. mili­tary forces during the Joint Military Commissioning Cere­mony tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. in the Joyce Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. 
Lieutenant General Thomas Kelly, who was director of op­erations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff before his retirement last March, will address the stu­dents. 
Earlier this year, as director of operations, Kelly made fre­quent television appearances at Pentagon media briefings on the Persian Gulf war. During the 1960s, he taught military science in Notre Dame's Army ROTC program and last Octo­ber he spoke at the dedication of the Pasquerilla center, which houses the University's ROTC programs. 
Professor Timothy O'Meara, provost; Father Oliver Williams, associate provost; and Sister Kathleen Cannon, associate provost will also take part in the ceremony, during which which graduating seniors will take the oaths of office in the Army, Marine Corps, Navy and Air Force. 
The Observer 


------------------~---. 
Friday, May 17, 1991 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 

The old and the new 
A group of graduating seniors walk by construction on the new Edward J. DeBartolo Classroom Facility on their way to the Senior Send-Off Wednesday at the JACC Fieldhouse. 
NO anthropologists will conduct digs this summer 
Special to The Observer early in the ND history. pology and chairman of the an­their everyday lives," he ex­nity's evolution as the dynamics 
Researchers will start to pre­thropology department, most of plained. between people. 
Anthropologists at Notre pare the site Monday, May 20, what is known about the lives What they ate for supper, Archaeology attempts to re­Dame will conduct an archaeo­and the dig is expected to begin of the first students, faculty and whether there were lean or fat construct the patterns of hu­logical dig this summer around later that week. About ten religious is limited to what was times, tend not to get men­man behavior from its material the founder's monument, Old students will participate in the deemed by early leaders tioned in the archives, he says, remains. "One of the most ob­College and the Log Chapel on research for course credit. important enough to write and in the end leadership jective tools for the study of the University's campus to According to James Bellis, down. "Unfortunately, this is records and statistics may not human behavior," said Bellis, learn more about everyday life associate professor of anthro-not always the best picture of be as important to a commu-"is the stuff that's left behind. • 
NO 
continued from page 1 
Louisiana Congresswoman Corinne (Lindy} Boggs will be honored with Notre Dame's 1991 Laetare Medal during the ceremonies. Boggs, the first woman to represent her state in Congress, served nine terms before deciding against running for a 10th term last year. 
The 108-year-old medal is the most prestigious honor given to American Catholics. 
Other recipients of honorary degrees at the commencement ceremonies include: 
•Caroline 
Ahmanson, a Los Angeles philanthropist active in cultural, civic, national and in­ternational affairs. She is a di­rector or trustee of several companies or organizations, including the Walt Disney Com­pany and American Women for International Understanding. 

•Sidney 
Callahan, a professor of psychology at Mercy College, 


Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. She is the 
author of several books and ar-Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East. 
More is an alumnae of both Saint Mary's College and Notre Dame, and is chair of the voting members of the Holy Cross Health System Corporation. 
•Jane Pfeiffer, an ND trustee and consultant in management organization, communications and governmental relations. 
Pfeiffer is a member of a num­ber of government commissions and a director of several com­panies and nonprofit organiza­tions. 
She also serves on the Knight Foundation Commission, which recently recommended reforms in intercollegiate athletics. 
•Archbishop John Quinn, of 
We were proud of you then... We're more proud of you now... 
Congratulations! Love, Dad, Mom, Colleen, 
& Grandma Mickus 
San Francisco. He served pre­viously as bishop of Oklahoma City and Tulsa before his ap­pointment to the San Francisco position. 
He is considered a leader in the American Catholic Church, and was president of the Na­tional Conference of Catholic Bishops and the United States 
Catholic  Conference  from  
1977-80.  
ATTENTION:  

~~~~~~ Grad Students 
.,. Professors Employees *furnished and unfurnished suites 
•flexible 
leases 

•washer 
& dryer each apt. 

•locked 
intercom entrances 

•spacious 
floor plans w/country ldlchens 


1-1""" 
-:-::;::_ 2909 Sugar Maple Nort South Bend, Indiana 46228 
119 • 111 • 3731 ~---·.·· 
-

ethical issues. Callahan has re­ceived awards for her writing, as well as two honorary doctor of literature degrees. 
•Raymond 
Chambers, chair­man of the Points of Light Foundation, which is directing a national effort to stimulate voluntarism. He is also involved in various New Jersey civic and charitable organizations. 

•Alvah 
Chapman, chairman of the executive committee of Kinght-Ridder Inc. and former general manager of the Miami Herald. Chapman is active in civic, educational and cultural activities in Miami and also serves on President Bush's Ad­visory Council on Drugs. 

•Marva 
Collins, founder of Chicago's Westside Preparatory School. Considered a pioneer in inner-city education, she opened Westside Prepa?tory in her home using pension money, and has expanded the school into two buildings with about 250 students. 

•Sister 
M. Thomas More, president of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. From 1984 until her election as 


ticles on religious, social, and~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!~=;;~!!!!!!;;!!!!!;!;!!!!!!;!!!!!!;!;!!!!!!!;;!!!;!;;!!;!!!!!!!!!!!!!;!;!~ 
NOTRE DAME 


GOLF SHOP 
"ON THE CURVE" IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
GRADUATION WEEKEND SHOP HOURS 
FRIDAY 6:30AM -7:00PM SATURDAY 6:00AM-7:00PM SUNDAY 6:00AM -7:00PM 
SHIRTS SWEATERS BALLS UMBRELLAS HEADWEAR JACKETS HEAD COVERS CLUBS EQUIPMENT 
ENJOY FINE GOLF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT WITH EXCLUSIVE NOTRE DAME LOGOS 
AVAILABLE ONLY AT THE NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
president of the congrega tlon, ~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
she was regional superior for:;; 
Friday, Mayb 17, 1991 
The Observer page 5 
ND professor Pierce dies Monday 

Special to The Observer 
Four Saint Mary's College student-faculty teams have been selected for the College's first Student Independent Study
The Observer/John Rock 

and Research (SISTAR) awards.
Up and over The awards will provide stipends for both students and
A heated game of volleyball was for many seniors a way to spend 
faculty for collaborative
the warmer days of senior week. Here, two students rise up for 
research projects at Saint
what could be one of the last net battles of their college days. 
Mary's this summer. 
By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
Louis Pierce, professor of chemistry at Notre Dame, died Monday, May 13, at St. Joseph's Hospital. He was 61 years old. 
He is survived by his wife Geraldine (Ustar), his two daughters Nancy Pierce of Bloomington, Ill., and Susan Pierce of South Bend; three sons, Louis and John, both of South Bend, and Jerome of Barton, N.Y., and four grand­children. 
A press release issued by his family describes Pierce as "a quiet and humble man." Pierce's family had remained at his bedside around the clock during the 32 days he spent in intensive care at St. Joseph's. 
Pierce's field of research was microwave spectroscopy espe­cially as applied to the determination of molecular structure. He was the author of 

Louis Pierce 

over 30 research publications and the recipient of commendations and awards. 
A native of Ely, Minn., Pierce earned a Ph.D. in chemistry at Western Reserve University in 1954 when he was only 25. Fol­lowing his degree, he was awarded a prestigious postdoc­toral appointment to work in the laboratory of E.B. Wilson at Harvard University. 
Joining the ND faculty in 1956, Pierce's research was supported by one of the initial research grants by the National Science Foundation to the Uni­versity. In 1964, he served as the interim director of the ND Computing Center. 
From 1961 to 1965, he was an Alfred P. Sloan Fellow and in 1965 he served as a consul­tant to the National Science Foundation. 
A graveside service was given by Father Joesph Walter Wednesday at Highland Cemetery in South Bend. 
The Pierce family is establishing a trust fund for an annual grant to high school students at John Adams High School who are college bound and pursuing a science related career as a continuing memorial to Pierce and his work at ND, said the press release. 
Contributions can be made to the Dr. Louis Pierce Memorial Science Award Trust Fund and will be accepted at any First Source Bank branch location. 
Student-faculty teams at SMC awarded 
Awards were presented to the following student-faculty partnerships: 
Junior Moira Murphy and Humanistic Studies Professor Gail Mandell to work on "Rediscovering Times Past: Bi­ographical Research Into the Life and Times of Sister Madel­eva Wolff." 
Junior Brenda Hull and Assistant Professor of Art 
Marcia Rickard to work on "Curatorial Problems in 18th­and 19th-Century Art." 
Junior Mary Beth Tusing and Assistant Professor of Psychol­ogy Catherine Pittman to work on "Facilitating the Return to Driving After Brain Injury: Neuropsychological Assessment of Driving Ability." 
Junior Angelique Dioguardi and Economics Professor 
Jerome McElroy to work on "Tourism in the Pacific Rim." 
Similar student-faculty re­search programs exist in the scientific disciplines, but the SISTAR program is unique in that it Includes students from all academic areas and encour­ages a more symbiotic student­teacher relationship, according to Saint Mary's Associate Dean of Faculty Patrick White, who oversees the program. 
White said the program will work as a kind of "feeder" pro­gram for liberal arts faculties. 
"We'd Uke students to realize, at a relatively early stage in their professional development, the kinds of opportunities that exist at smaller, liberal arts colleges for individuals inter­ested in academic careers," White said. 
"But no matter what they choose to do professionally, we want the students to experience the special interaction that comes from working with faculty members as true colleagues over an extended period of time," he added. 
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION FACULTY AWARDS, 1991 
DISTINGillSHED FACULTY SERVICE AWARD, sponsored by the College of Business Administration Advisory Council: 
C. JOSEPH SEQUIN 
SENIOR CLASS OUTSTANDING TEACHER AWARD, sponsored by AMOCO: DAVID RICCHIUTE 
MBA OUTSTANDING TEACHER AWARD, sponsored by the MBA Program: JEFFREY BERGSTRAND 
EXECUTIVE MBA OUTSTANDING TEACHER AWARD, sponsored by the 
Executive MBA program: 
EDWARD TRUBAC 

DINCOLO OUTSTANDING JUNIOR FACULTY AWARD in the Department of Accountancy: 
BETH KERN 

CONGRATULATIONS TO ALL FACULTY FOR A GREAT YEAR 
page 6 
Holy Cross Sisters to be honored Saturday 
Special to The Observer 
The Congregation of the Sis­ters of the Holy Cross will be honored for its 150-year commitment to the field of edu­cation in a special presentation during the commencement ex­ercises Saturday at Saint Mary's College. 
Sister M. Thomas More, president of the congregation, will accept the honor, the Moreau Award, named after Father Basil Anthony Moreau, the founder of the Holy Cross congregation. The award, which will be presented for the first and only time at the com­mencement, has been created in commemoration of the sesquicentennial of the congregation, which will be celebrated this summer. 
Father Moreau originally sent four Holy Cross sisters to northern Indiana in the mid­1800s to take care of domestic, nursing and sacristy needs of the mission that Father Edward Sorin had established at what is now Notre Dame. 
Seeing a need to educate the area's children at a time when public schools were limited, and the schools in existence often excluded females, the sisters opened their first school in Ber­trand, Michigan, a few miles north of the present day Saint Mary's campus. 
In 1855 the school, which by now was known as Saint Mary's Academy, moved to Indiana, to the land along a plateau overlooking the St. Joseph's River. That same year, the sisters received a charter from the state of Indiana for the establishment of a school "for the education of young ladies in the various branches of arts and sciences... and to confer such degrees upon scholars as are usual in such institutions." 
The academy officially be­came known as Saint Mary's College in 1903. 
Since the opening of their first school, the sisters have enjoyed a significant influence in educating Catholic young women throughout the world. In the early 1900s, the sisters developed a curriculum that was adopted by countless Catholic elementary schools throughout the United States. 
In 1939, convinced of the value of early childhood educa­tion, the congregation inaugu­rated a preschool on the College campus. 
At one time, the congregation operated several high schools and colleges for young women. The trend toward coeducation has reduced the number to one high school, The Academy of the Holy Cross in Kensington, Md., and one college, Saint Mary's. 
The congregation still main­tains an active presence with the College, overseeing the of­fice of the president and the in­stitution's board of regents. 
"As the Sisters of the Holy Cross celebrate 150 years as a congregation, it is fitting and appropriate that Saint Mary's, as the direct beneficiary of the sisters' educational mission, acknowledge and praise the sis­ters endeavors during the last century and a half," said William Hickey, Saint Mary's president. 
Dear Chris, Thank you for carrying on the tradition. You are a wonderful person and we are very proud that you are our son. Love, Mom&Dad 
Morrissey Manor Senjor Class 1991 
Dennis Clpllckas Patrick Fay David Redmann Jose Gonzalez Gregory Delaune Daniel DeWitt Bllal Slnno John Bransfield James Hudgens Timothy Garrity Michael Sullivan Derrick Johnson William Cooper Gregory Wong Alex Halow Stephen Moskop Richard Pelllcclo John Mansour Michael Chokel Max Verkamp David Shaw Michael Nolte Jason Carroll Anthony Muilenburg 
Joseph Newell Javier Margues Robert Cain Robert Gregory Michael Norman Aaron Flory Tim Fllntoff William Buonaccorsi Richard Schermerhorn Dennis Very Michael Chambers Ronald Shashy 
J. Cesar Gonzalez John Roebuck Christopher Lamps VIctor Bllx Mark Feczko Timothy Singleton Andrew Wenke Matthew Potts Keith Sallis Bradley Luetkenhaus Patrick Murphy Paul Godfrey Paul Finger Paul Dash Kevin Ellery Stephen Simonich Leo Tighe Paul Br~ande 
Congratulations Morrissey Manor Seniors! From the Manor Head Staff, Rev. Joseph Ross, C.S.C., Rector Jared DesRosiers, Assistant Rector, Rev. Tom McDermott, C.S.C., Assistant Rector 
The Observer Friday, May 17, 1991 
The Observer/John Rock 

Swing your partner 
The senior barn dance at St. Patrick's Park last Sunday night was an opportunity for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to brush up and refine their square dancing skills. 

OURGUIDE1b 
EBEST OF ITALY 
To enjoy the best of Italy, you need to do a little reading. Very little. Just open our menu. . 
Assisting you in your tour of Italy 1s our able, friendly staff. They'll make you feel right at home. 
So come in to The Olive Garden and pick up a menu. Then sit back and watch the best of Italy unfold. 
-fk 

0~~, 
ITALIAN ~STAURANT 


E BEST OF ITALY GROWS IN THE GARDE 
• 6410 Grape Rood, Mishawaka 
Friday, May 17, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Bergin resigns as director of NO continuing education 
Special to The Observer Over the succeeding quarter including two terms on Its na­man for one term, and has also 
of a century the center has tional board. served on the boards of the 
Thomas Bergin, director of been the site for major national For more than 20 years he South Bend Arts Center and the 
continuing education at the and international academic, has also been involved in Michiana Arts and Sciences 
University of Notre Dame for 27 Church, government and • education and the arts, Council. 
years, will step down from the business education including among his activities 
post on June, 30, according to conferences. testifying before Congress on He recently was elected a di­
the Timothy O'Meara, provost. "Tom Bergin was the person the National Endowment for rector of the Indiana Humani­
Bergin will remain on the first responsible for the flower­the Arts' artists-in-schools ties Council. 
University faculty at the Center ing of continuing education at program, serving as chairman He is a member of the 
for Continuing Education and Notre Dame,M O'Meara said. of the National Endowment for boards of directors of Skyline
will pursue projects and pro­"In the beginning, it was Tom the Arts Educators and on the Corporation of Elkhart, Ind., 
grams that are already under who helped to make Notre Rockefeller Panel on Arts, and Valley American Bank of 
way. Dame a preferred gathering Education and Americans. Mishawaka, Ind. 
Bergin, also a professor of place for diverse and distin­He also participated in a Bergin was graduated from 
management, is a Notre Dame guished assemblies of scholars White House meeting to Notre Dame in 1945. He re­
alumnus who has been a re­and leaders from every walk of Board, the Finance Forum, the develop an awareness of voca­ceived his master's degrees in 
member of the University's fac­life.M Board of Hegents Foundation tions in the arts and arts-re­economics from the the Univer­
ulty since 1947. for Economic and Business lated field. sity of Vermont in 1947 and his 
Appointed dean of continuing A researcher in the field of Studies of the State of Indiana, doctorate from Syracuse Uni­education by then-president of economic growth and develop­the New York Stock Exchange President Carter in 1978 ap­versity in 1957. the University Father Theodore ment, Bergin was appointed by Nominating Committee and the pointed him to a six-year term 
llesburgh, he assumed the re­President Kennedy to an advi­American Economic Associa­on the Council of the National The committee on continuing
sponsibility for continuing edu­sory board of the U.S. Depart­tion. Endowment for the Arts. education will conduct the cation in 1964 and laid the ment of Commerce and was a Throughout his long associa­Bergin is a member of the search for Bergin's successor. groundwork for the major ex­consultant to the department in tion with the Center for Con­board and former president of The committee is chaired by as­
pansion that began two years 1960-61. tinuing Education, Bergin has the South Bend Symphony sociate provost Father Oliver later with the opening of the He has served with many or­served the National University Orchestra. He served on the Williams, and is composed of Center for Continuing Educa­ganizations including the Presi­Continuing Education Associa­board of the Indiana Arts the deans of the University'stion. dent's Conference of the Na-tion in a number of capacities, Commission and was its chair-colleges and law school. 
*******************************Two SMC juniors selected 
E ~ ~ Etor research internships
* , *Special to The Observer materials may be contained. Amon, a chemistry major from Borneo, Michigan, will *Juliann Pleva and Lynn Amon work with Steven Goheen on
* *are the first two students cho-the development of new sen for summer research in-methods for analyzing various
* 
() *ternships in a cooperative metals and radionucleides in

* 
u *agreement between the College hazardous wastes through the* *and the Pacific Northwest Lab-use of chelators, which are 


oratories (PNL) in Hichland, organic molecules with active* *Washington. sites that can bind to metals.
* * Pleva, a chemistry major from The advantage of using
* 
~ *Huron, Ohio, will work with chelators is that their organic

* * PNL's William Samuels in the nature allows them to move laboratory's material science through soils and effectively 

* 
research department. neutralize toxic substances.* * Hesearch will involve the* *synthesis, isolation, and The internships are part of 

instrumental analysis of the the partnership between Saint 

* 
inorganic polymers known as Mary's and PNL, initiated last* *polyphosphazenes. November, designed to attract 


more women and minorities* * The polymers will be used as into scientific professions. Two* *effective additives for the min-students from the sciences will* *imization of holes in densified be chosen each year for* *ceramics in which hazardous summer internships with PNL. 


* * 
* * 
* * 
~ * * ~;~M;~r~c;~AD, AND TAKE$ {)() * ~ * ~ WITH YOU WHEN YOU BUY ANEW MERCURY I~
* Graduates. your diploma can be worth $500 to you when you purchase \)""'coll£c( ** a new Mercury. And your Lincoln-Mercury Dealer can take care of the /;K '\ ** financing arrangements through Ford Credit. To get your $500 cash 1\-~ ** from Ford Motor Co., just graduate with a bachelor's or advanced -1-1m .,.~ * degree from an accredited four-year college or university between <~'c..,~s[ r~ou~"' * 
October 1. 1989 and December 31. 1991. and then take retail delivery* of a new Mercury from Dealer stock by December 31, 1991. Select ** a Mercury Capri, or a Mercury Tracer, Topaz, Cougar, Sable or Grand *
* Marquis. You can even use the $500 toward your down payment. .u. So choose the Mercury that fits your lifestyle and hit the road -** ~ with $500 cash I 
* 
* To qualify for Ford Credtt pre-approved credit. qualified buyers must have veri'.iable employ­ment beginmng wtthtn 120 days of vehicle purchase. Your salary must be sufftctent to cover 
ltvinfi expenses as well as car payment. A prior credit history isn't necessary, but if you have one tt must indicate payments made as agreed. See your dealer for all the detatls.
* SEE YOUR UNCOLN-MERCURY DEALER TODAY!
* 
* 

~*****************************# 



MEDIA MADNESS 
Professors & Students c~l who need multimedia ~~ 
")

presentations-we are open ALL summer to c~l create new classroom ~~ 
")

materials and convert older r=i materials to new formats! cI~ I ~~ 
") 

p h o t o I g r a p h i c s ~~ 
c ­

Room 13 of the CCE Building ~ ~ 
P.O. Box 1088 ") Notre Dame, IN 46556 
219. 239. 7630 
cf ~I

§I] ~~ 
EDUCATIONAL MEDIA 
c~l 

page a The Observer Friday, May 17, 1991 
160 law Senior will receive Japanese scholarship 
students graduate 
Special to The Observer 
Some 160 students of the University of Notre Dame's Law School will receive diplomas during a ceremony beginning at 4:30 
p.m. Sunday at the reflecting pool of the University of Notre Dame's 
Special to The Observer 
Michael Bailey, a graduating senior at the University of Notre Dame, has been selected by the Japanese Ministry of Ed­ucation to receive one of the Japanese government's 1991 Mombusho Scholarship Awards. 
The award entitles Bailey, who majored in government and international studies and Japanese, to do postgraduate research at a Japanese 

Michael Bally 

national university to be designated by the Ministry of Education. 
In addition to travel expenses to and from Japan, the award provides tuition, funds for field 
trips  and  other  academic  
activities  and  a  monthly  
allowance  for  personal  

expenses. At the completion of a year or a year and a half of study, he will have an option to pursue a Japanese master's degree. 
According to Father George Minamiki, associate professor emeritus of classical and Orien­tal languages and literatures, Bailey is the ninth student from the University to receive such an award from the Japanese government. Most of the nine have received master's degrees from Tokyo University, Kyoto University, and Hokaido Uni­versity. 
The first Notre Dame student to major in Japanese was graduated in 1978. 

Hesburgh Library auditorium. Charles Haughey, prime minister of Ireland, will address the graduating law students. Haughey, who studied accounting and law in Dublin at University College and Kings Inn, entered Irish politics in 1957 as a member of the Fianna Fail party, representing a Dublin constituency. In the 1960s he served as Minister for Justice, Minister for Agriculture and Minister of Finance. He became Taoiseach (prime minister) for the first time from 1979 to 1981, briefly again in 1982, and for the third time in 1987. He has served as president of the Flanna Fail Party since 1979. Haughey will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame during the University's Commencement exercises Sunday. Earlier on Sunday, at 10 a.m. in Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Church, there will be a prayer service for Law School graduates, their families and friends. Notre Dame president Father Edward Malloy, will preside, and David Link, dean of the Law School, will address the assembly.  Invite a senior who ared the course over for pizza. (This is known as "Pizza Gratia Passa" or Pizza for the Sake of Passing.) Pepperoni slices make good page markers. Economics is easier if you've got a coupon. To reduce stress, kick bark with a Domino's Pizza and Coca-Cola<&!  
P.I.M.E.  
MISSIONARIES  
Fulfilling one's life through a  
missionary vocation  
~  
The Ponttflcallnstlluta tor For"'9" MiSsiOns  
(the PIME Miuionat'oes) is an IT'IIerTlAilOn8 com­ 
munity of Catholic pnests and laymen who  
make a lifelong commltmenl to oontmuong the  
miulon ol Jesus CIIIW! In the modem wof1d.  
W.llv. ..Go.pelln ~. Brazil. Hong Kong, India. Japu1, Myanmar, Papua New  . THREE POINT TWO CHEESE  
GutnM. Phlllppina, Taiwan, Thalland and w... Alrlca among the poor 8l>d unchurched. Founded In bly In 1150, a group ol <:lioc»­ 4.99 PLAY ·$7.99 _PIZZAS·$4;00 ,--.. --­- 
.-t pn.tll, • the enootngamen1 of lhelr bilfqJe, gNW in their understanding ol just pnt­ci-'Y what God was calling them to be. A mis­aionary mu.t be open to dialogue, prarer and ...._. MrVice, especielly to !he poo<. The mis­aionary must team now to be a sign of shared t.111 belwMn well ntabllahed European and ~local churc:Ms and ~ whet'o  GET A LARGE PIZZA GET A LARGE PIZZA I GET TWO SMALL : WITH ONE TOPPING WITH YOUR THREE : CHEESE PIZZAS 1 I FOR JUST $4.99 : FAVORITE TOPPINGS I IllFOR ONLY $4.00 :'Ill 'IIFOR ONLY $7.99 I I  
lila Church ia just beginning. The misaionary mu.t knollll how to announce the KingdOm of God while being a fort:e for transformation of uw...xieml ,.,...which do not build up that Kingdom.  I . . e EXPIRES 6/15/91 : : . e EXPIRES 6/15/91 : -· e EXPIRES 6/15/91 : I Validal~stores~Nolvahdw!lhan~Oiherol1ersCuslomarpayssalestax j Validatp;:~rt~lloloresonlyNotv11t.Gwilhan~othefoll,r.~CustomerPf)'ISIIes~_ 00 j ValidaiP!l~~~es~NotvalldWIIhanyotnerol1ersCU5fomefpayssales~ jwtleftapplicable areaslimUdiOenstl'esale~ QurliiYeJScanylesslhlnS2000 wl'lereappbcible ar~lln'lrlecltc>'1R!olo'c~lednvina vurdrivefsc:anyltssthln$20 whereappllcilble .....,.,•.,.~"f~:~~~~~~=~carrylesslhan 00I driYers;wenotpenlizedlorlaledeliveries driversartnotpenaizediOI'Iatldeliveries ..,........ _jL __________________L------------------~-----------------­ 
II you ant a young man ~n 18 and 35,  
in good health and I!Pirlb. excited to IMI your  
lalth In the rnlaionary way desCribed above.  
-'<! in or cal lor lnfonnatlon today FR. JOHN J. MAJKA  289-0033 816 Portage Ave.271-0300 1835 South Bend Ave.Call Us! Notre Dame  
PRIME MISSIONARIES  
35750 Moravian Dr.  
FRASER, MICHIGAN 48026  ©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc.  
PHONE 313 791-2100  


"~-------­ 
-~  
Friday, May 17, 1991  The Observer  page9  

Local group to donate to homeless shelter Library 
Special to The Observer 
The Junior League of South Bend will provide $13,000 and trained volunteers to establish a Children's Activity Room in South Bend's Center for the Homeless, according to Father Richard Warner, chair of the Center's executive board. 
MThe guests, staff and board of the Center are grateful to the Junior League, whose members splendidly exemplify the generosity and commitment which brought this facility Into being and guarantee that It will flourish," said Warner. 
MWe're pleased not only that our financial gift will enhance the services offered by the Cen­ter, but also that our volunteers will deepen our involvement in the Center's work," said Marsha Williams, incoming president of the Junior League in South Bend. 
In 1989, the League donated $50,000 to the Center to up­grade Its kitchen facilities. Its most recent gift will help deco­rate, equip and furnish a spe­cial room for children residing at the Center. 
The League will also be re­sponsible for recruiting and training volunteers to supervise children's activities. 
The Center for the Homeless, located in a renovated building which formerly housed Gilbert's Men's Store at 813 S. Michigan St., was established in 1988. It is administered by a board representing Notre Dame, the United Religious Community, the City of South Bend, and the Council of Providers of Services to the Homeless. 
The Center provided 29,429 nights' lodging and served 59,849 meals last year. 
MA•~----­-327 LINCOLN WAY WEST Col 232-3354 BRIDAL SERVICE FRUIT BASKETS FUNERAL TRIBUTES  FLORAL CO. INC. RY B. GREEN "~ tued Gijf6 ~ cdf ~" FREE DELIVERY! • COME IN AND BROWSE IZl Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Sundays 9:00 AM to 12:00 Noon SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S SERVING SOUTH BEND, MISHAWAKA & GRANGER OVER 60 YEARS  project May 22. By June 20 two new cars predicted to give better performance than the current four are expected to be fully operational. Completion date for the entire four-car system will be mid-to late September. The overhaul will include both operational and aesthetic improvement of the elevator system In the Hesburgh Library, says Miller. Once completed the new elevators will be at current standards for code, technology and user expectations. The new elevators will also have enhanced accessibility for the handicapped. Officials anticipate that during the course of the modernization project two elevators will always be available for use. The summer scheduling of the project is hoped to minimize the potential inconvenience to library users.  


elevators to be fixed 
Special to The Observer 
The elevator system of the Hesburgh Library will undergo total modernization this summer, according to Robert Miller, director of University Libraries. 
The Fort Wayne branch of the Montgomery Elevator Co. will begin work on the 


1991 National Conference 
on 

Medjugorje 
June 14-16 
University of Notre Dame 
"You Will Know Them By Their Fruits" 
Speakers include: 

Fr. Michael O'Carroll, CSSp: The worldwide impact of Medjugorje and the conversion or mankind. Fr. Rene Laurentin: The good fruits in lhe lives or the six visionaries. Fr. Gianni Sgreva: How Medjugorje inspired the Catholic Ch!IJl:h's newest religious mder, Oasi della Pact. Bishop Nicholas D'Antonio: A bishop's testimony to the good fruits of Medjugorje. Jim Jennings: Why convicts, as a result of Medjugorje, consecrated their prison to Mary's Immaculate Heart. Wayne Weible: The fruits of Medjugorje in the lives of Protestants. Fr. Ken Roberts: The fruits of Medjugorje in the lives of America's youth. 
On video and in person: 
Lola Falana, Michael O'Brien, Alberto Salazar and more! 
write: 

Queen of Peace Ministries, P.O. Box 761 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
--------~-­
page 10 The Observer Friday, May 17, 1991 
SMC Alumnae Association welcomes 1991 graduates 
By EMILY WILLEn Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's Alumnae Association formally welcomed the members of the class of 1991 into the Association with a mass and brunch yesterday. 
Saint Mary's President William Hickey led a toast to the class reminding them of their value to the College and wishing them success and luck in the future. 
"I hope that you know how much we've enjoyed you, how much we've learned from you, how much we hope for you, and how much we want to hear from you. You are our reason for being here." he said. 
Susan Gallagher, a member of the Class of 1980, officially 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
Chittister, a former prioress of the Benedictine sisters of Erie, Pa., was an adjunct pro­fessor and writer-in-residence at Saint Mary's during the spring semester. As a commen­tator, she frequently speaks on religion and current issues, such as war, politics, and the environment. 
She is also a contributing edi­tor to Sojourners magazine and a columnist for National Catholic Reporter and Pax Christi magazine. 
Chittister has authored sev­eral books on religious life, in­cluding "Women, Ministry and Church." Her latest work, "Distilled From the Daily," is forthcoming from Harper and Row. 
D'Arcy has served the Catholic church for more than 30 years, as a parish priest and an auxiliary bishop. He was named bishop of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend in 1985. 
He has also been active in the area of priestly formation, helping to write a 1979 letter on the screening and direction of priests that today remains a model throughout the world. 
Gallin has worked within higher education for more than 35 years, as a teacher, dean and director of public relations. For over 10 years she has served as the executive director of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities, a 200-member organization. 
She has authored books on the establishment of an resi­dence to the Nazi party in Ger­many, and is considered a scholar in the field of European history. 
Meekison, who will receive the College's President's Medal, has been active in her Ohio community as a writer, editor, photographer and historian. 
She has worked to secure na­tional historic building status for two local churches and has served as a correspondent for the Toledo Catholic Chronicle for 45 years. 
Her contributions to Saint Mary's include 50 years as a class reporter for Courier, the College's alumnae magazine. 
She is currently a member of the publication's editorial advi­sory board, and the annual es­say contest for aspiring alum­nae writers is named in her honor. 
welcomed the Class of 1991 into the Alumnae Association. She challenged the individuals to go into their communities and make an impact, and en­couraged them to participate in the activities of their local alumnae clubs. 
Senior class president Lowell Lehmann responded on behalf of the class and announced that the senior class has purchased a typewriter for student use to be placed in the library. The seniors will also donate money for the renovation of the Holy Cross Hall chapel. 
Each year the Board of Di­rectors of the Alumnae Associ­ation bestows the Outstanding Senior Award to a member of the senior class who best em-
Till/£ TO Ptlffl.l 

00;111RIITtiLIIT/(};1/cf, 
f/()tf #II()£ IT! 'Rrll!llttflcf 0 PROt!()Orf/Otl. 

LOll£, & KlcfcfEg, #(}~ ()II~ 
JEll. & cf0(}7T 
Tlae Calaaciol 

PANCAKE HOUSE 
feulli&j Ratou•o.t 

Congratu~ation 
Graduates! Good Luck! 
Try Our Fresh Strawberry Crepes 
Open 7 Doys A Week At 6:00 A.M. 

bodies the heart of Saint Mary's College. This individual is chosen for displaying the spirit and values of Saint Mary's and demonstrating them both academically and ex­tracurricularly. 
Corinne Pavlis was the winner of this award, presented by Pamela Batz, the vice president of the Alumnae Association and a 1970 Saint Mary's graduate. Pavlis served as the Saint Mary's Observer editor this year. 
In a special presentation, Dorothy Feigel, vice president and dean of Faculty for the College, was named an honorary alumna of the College for her years of dedicated ser­vice. 
"I believe this is a reversal in 
SERVING ND/SMC 
~TUDENTS 
FOR 25 
YEARS 
May Special All Month 
Oven baked 
4 Egg 
Omelettes 
$.50 off 

No Coupon Needed 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) Nortll in Rnseland--(Acmss from Holiday IM) 272·7433 
I 
The Fondue Parlor 
cordially invites you to dine with us at" one of Michiana's most unique restaurants. 

255-1526 
1llea -1\an, •tOle 5PIMPII• Pri ASat, ..W.C lPM-IIPM 
the natural scheme of things. I ~hould have been a graduate of Saint Mary's. Now I am proud to say that I am an alumna," said Feigel. 
The ceremony concluded with 
SAVE A TREE 
Please recycle this paper. 
Thanks for the time you spent with us. Sarin College wishes the best to those 
who are moving on:  
Chris Balcezak  Kevin Kramer  
Jay Blount  Vic Lombardi  
Mike Bregenzer  Leroy Mcintosh  
Frank Carnevale  Dave McKenna  
Kevin Cavanaugh  Jim McMullan  
Dan Creamean  Pat Monahan  
Bob Dengler  Kevin 0' Connor  
Ted Ehler  Tim O'Shaughnessy  
John Evans  Vince Owens  
Mike Gleason  Mike Shinnick  
Miguel Huerta  Jeff Smith  
John Jansen  Don Stager  
Ken Kennedy  Mark Thumser  
Pat Walsh  C. G. Wander  
Dan Ward  Joel Williams  
Tom Wiltberger  Chris Zorich  

DILLON HALL 
CONGRATULATIONS 
TO THE GRADUATING SENIORS OF 1991 
final commencement instruc­tions by Richard Pilger, Mar­shal of the College, the singing of the alma mater, and a bene­diction by senior class vice president Jenifer Racine. 
----·---_ __L,.______ ._____ • --­
Friday, May 17, 1991 The Observer page 11 
Saint Mary's announces awards for students and faculty 
the University of Arkansas 
Press. 
Peter Checca, assistant pro­fessor of modern languages, received the Maria Pieta Award for excellence in teaching freshman-and sophomore­level courses. Checca, who joined the faculty at Saint Mary's in 1976, teaches courses in Italian. He Also serves as counselor for the College's program of study in Rome. 
Ann Clark, chair and associ­ate professor in the department of philosophy, was the recipient of the Sears Teaching Excel­lence Award for outstanding teaching in junior-and senior­level courses. This award is part of a national program un­derwritten by the Sears Roe­buck Foundation recognizing exceptional teachers and cam­pus leaders. 
Clark joined the Saint Mary's faculty as an instructor in 1970, and has been instrumen­tal in the development of the College's women's studies pro­gram. 
Faculty promotions also were announced at the program. Promoted from associate pro­fessor to professor was Kevin McDonnell, department of phi­losophy. Promoted from assis­tant professor to associate professor were Theodore Billy, department of English, Mary Ann Merryman, department of business administration and economics, and Nancy Nek­vasil, department of biology. 
Teresa Lynch, a junior from Joliet, Ill., was awarded the Saint Catherine Medal, pre­sented to an underclassman demonstrating high standards of personal excellence and scholarship, along with a strong commitment to Chris­tian ideals. 
Departmental awards also were presented to students in the following areas: 
•Art: 
Sister Edna Service Award to Kelly Boglarsky, On­sted, Mich. 

•Biology: 
Mother Rose Eliza­beth Award to Heather Rossi, Warren, Ohio; George and Juanda Bick Nature Award to Karyn Siemasko, Lexington Park, Md. 

•Business 
administration and economics: Wall Street Journal Award and Frank A. Yeandel Service Award to Gisela Rust, Chesterfield, Mo.; Academic Achievement Award to Anne Brady, St. Paul, Minn. 

•Chemistry: 
Mother Rose Elizabeth Award to Julie Shearer, South Bend; American Institute of Chemists Award to Kimberly Chlebek, Frankfort, 


Ill. 
•Communication, 
dance and theatre: Excellence in Theatre Award to Eileen Gagel, Colum­bus, Ohio; Mass Communication Award to Margaret Belin, Clearfield, Pa.; Speech Communication Award to Caroline McNeive, Webster Groves, Mo. 

•Education: 
Mary McDermott Award for Excellence in Ele­mentary Education to Margaret Killian, Towanda, Ill., and Eliz­abeth Walz, Elmhurst, Ill.; Sul­livan-McGuire Award for Excel­


lence in Secondary Education to Sarah Muzzarelli, Bartonville, Ill. 
•English: 
English Prize to Beth Renaldi, South Bend, and Gretchen Scherer, Wayzata, Minn.; Laurie Lesniewski Award for Creative Writing to Erin Cusack, Ashland, Ore., and Anne-Marie Strzelecki., Crete, Ill. 

•History: 
Martha Mont­gomery Schurz Memorial Award: Cynthia Calabrese, Ch­ester, N.J.; Blecka-Zatko Essay Award: Melissa McAndrews, Barrington, Ill. 

•Humanistic 
studies: Thomas More Award to Mary Warne­ment, Sturgis, Mich. 

•Mathematics: 
Milko Jegllc Award for Achievement in Mathematics to Janice Walsh, Minooka, Ill. 

•Modern 
languages: French Award: Shannon Casey, Wyoming, Mich.; Spanish Award to Jenny Brinkley, Spe­naer, Iowa. 

•Nursing: 
Evelyn McGuiness Award for Excellence in Nurs­ing to Kimberly Benjamin, Mishawaka, Ind.; Humanitarian Award to Kristine Westhoff, Florissant, Mo. 

•Political 
science: Juliette Noone Lester Award to Anne Brady, St. Paul, Minn. 

•Psychology: 
Outstanding Scholarship Award to Megan Welter, St. Louis. 

•Hellgious 
studies: Helen Car­roll Award to Mary Kennedy Healy, South Bend; runner-up Colleen O'Connell, Shoreview, 



Special to The Ob ..rver 
Awards for Saint Mary's Col­lege students and faculty were announced at the College's an­nual honors convocation last Sunday. 
Gall Mandell, humanistic studies chair and professor, was presented with the Spes Unica Award for excellence in teaching and dedicated service to the College over an extended period of time. Mandell joined the Saint Mary's faculty as a part-time lecturer in the English department in 1971, and served as assistant to the College's academic vice presi­dent from 1972-78. 
She began teaching in the humanistic studies department as an assistant professor in 1971. 
Mandell Is the author of "Life Into Art: Conversations With Seven Contemporary Biogra­phers," recently published by 

Grand Opening 
The Varsity Shop Hair Designers 52580 U.S. 31 north (across from No. Village Mall, 3 minutes from campus) 
We've moved & We are bigger and better 
Specials 
Haircuts $5.95 
Perrns(starting at) $29.95 
Shampoo & set $6.95 
or Blow Dry &Iron 
Coupon Expires May 19, 1991 
277-0057 
Cf:®!Ji1@fl®fl(Jj)U®f!!J®iliJ2 
,, 

fl@ f!fJa® 

{; 
!L®w® ®®rdl @®®@1 
{L[Jj]~fka 
.. , 
llfh®. fl®2!J@l@:/@~ @{} 
[/{@@ftri /M@OU':' 

-~i?S· 
I': • ... 

CONGRATULATIONS TO THE 1991 GRADUATES 
From the College of Science Faculty and Staff 
Minn. 
Brennecke 
honored 

with award 
Special to The Ob ..rver 
Joan Brennecke, assistant professor of chemical engineer­Ing at Notre Dame, has been named a 1991 recipient of the National Science Foundation Investigator Award, one of about 200 given nationally this year. 
She will receive an annual base grant of $25,000 from NSF for up to five years for the support of her research . 
The Foundation also will pro­vide up to $37,500 of additional funds per year on a dollar-for­dollar matching basis to con­tributions from industrial 
, L sources, resulting in a total an­nual support of up to $100,000. 
,'· · Brennecke, who joined the NO faculty in 1989, conducts re­search in thermodynamics, par­ticularly of supercritical fluids. 

ComeOut ComeOut WhErever 
Hey Luminous Liz! Didn't your mother ever tell you not to walk around with Q-tips in your ears? Best of luck on a "bright" future. Love, Cuddly Cathleen, the Grinch, The Little Red Head Kid 
Congratulations! 
You've dmw it! Yuu Vl' nhldl• it through four Yl\US o£ (\lllt.•gt.:' ollld 
NO ONE KNOWS YOli'RE GAY! 
You Wl'l11 to 27 SYI{s "·,th 1\ll'll\lwr~ o( tlw ollwr sex. You nlJnagt•d tu .sit tuH.1 scope in the lluddll• or at tlw Rock with nu one ever noticing. Yo11 
had 9 roomumtt•s wlw NCV[R IIAD A 
CI.UU (Two of whom"'" gay them· selves!) And you even wt•rc able to slip up to the hars in Chicago a few times without anyone noticing! Cun,:;r.ltulations! 

Goty and lcsbi.1n Alumni or Notre D,1mc (GAI.A · ND) is a II<'W group, just organized this semester, of lesbi­an, gay, and bisexual alumni of tho UnivL•rsity. Alre.1dy we'vt! rt!ached over 120 alums (rom ~ !ar back as 1950! Are more are ct'ntacting us every day. 
GALA · NO is a wa1 to keep in touch with gay members of your class. as well as find g•y ND alums in your part of the country. There's a nPwsl~ttcr which \\ill keep you abreast on the latest ~Hronts from the administration, as well as what your g•ty classmates arl" up to. 
If you'd like to join us. please write or call. And your nxKnmates will n<'VCr know. 
GALA-NO 
Gc1y .and Lubian Alumni of Notn Do~mt P.O. Box 191 
YouArel 
Notre Danw, lt-.: 46556 
ort·all: Mlkt• W. Millt:r .11 (1llii12.17-0788 •llsummt•r 

page 12 Friday, May 17, 1991 
ND Senior honored for Engineering 
starting food 
Special to The Observer 
Because of one freshman's efforts to cut the amount of wasted food at the Notre Dame Dining Halls, a program to bring unserved food to the homeless, Foodshare, was created. 
Today, that program fur­nishes close to 20,000 meals each year to people at the South Bend Hope Rescue Mission and the Center for the Homeless. 
Foodshare was the result of the efforts of Lisa Mackett, a graduating senior and former Dining Hall worker. "It was my job at night to clean up the serving lines in the North Dinipg Hall," Mackett said. 
"Because of the University's stringent policies regarding the food served here, leftovers that had been reheated once couldn't be served again. I couldn't bear to see what was literally whole trash cans of perfectly good food thrown away like that." 
When she asked people with whom she worked about alter­natives, most didn't think any­thing else could be done. Supe­riors worried about liability and the difficulty of packing and transporting the food elsewhere, she said. 
Mackett discussed the situa­tion with her resident assistant who was planning a career in law and learned about Indiana's "Good Samaritan" law that guaranteed immunity from civil liability to anyone who in good faith makes a gift of a food item to a charitable organization. 
Thus, the liability problem was solved. 
Notre Dame's own interest in helping the city develop a local 
homeless shelter helped Mack­
ett gain approval from high­
. . t Sb th
Ievel adffiJDJStra ors. e en 
worked with the University's Center for Social Concerns to organize students to donate the manpower it would take to put 
the effort into motion. 
"We made an announcement 
after Mass in a couple of the 
dorms and right away we had 
more than 100 volunteers, dou­
ble the number of people that 
we needed," she said. 
"In a very short time-mid­April, 1988-we were able to do our first run. Everything went really well, and ever since we've never had any real problems. It's been the easiest program to 
program honors four 

alumni 
Special to The Observer 

The 1991 Honor Awards of Notre Dame's College of Engi­neering were given to alumni Peter Doyle, Franklin Eck, and Raymond Meyo, as well as to Joseph Mergen, retired presi­dent of Piper Aircraft Corp., at the College's end-of-year award banquet. 
Usa MackeH 

organize and keep running." 
Running the program takes teams of four to five people each night for each of the two dining halls. Every team has a captain, and there are different teams for each of the seven nights of the week, according to Jennifer Rolph, a sophomore who headed Foodshare this year. 
Unserved leftover food is packed into warming trays, and using University vans, the teams transport the food from the South Dining Hall to the Center for the Homeless and from the North Dining Hall to Hope Rescue Mission. 
Both Mackett and Rolph credit food service employees as the unsung heroes. "If it weren't for their cooperation and great attitude we wouldn't have an operation at all," said Rolph. 
For her contribution to the community Mackett this spring received the Alumni Associa­tion's Distinguished Student Award. 
Doyle, who received his bach­elor's degree in architecture from NO in 1962, is president of Linbeck The Builders, a company engaged in construc­tion projects throughout the country and around the world and listed in the Engineering News Record "Top 400" con­struction firms. 
Franklin Eck, who received a bachelor's degree in chemical 
engineering from the University 1~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;••u.;u.;u,;iQ;iQ;iQ;1
in 1944, is president of Ad­
vanced Drainage Systems, Inc., which is headquartered in Columbus, Ohio, and has plants in more than a dozen states across the country. 
Raymond Meyo, who received his bachelor or arts degree from NO in 1964, is president of· Telxon Corp., now the world leader in application-specific portable distributed computing systems. 
Joseph Mergen, honored for his distinguished achievements in engineering, management and service, holds a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineer­ing from the University of Wis­consin. 
...................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·...·~~~~~~~~ 
A 

""" ,. A A ,. A A "" "'" A A A A ""' A """ A A .... A A ""' ""' A ""' ... """ A ... .... ... ... A ""' A ""'
A""AAAAAAAAAAAAA,."",_"'<II>AAAAAAAAAAA""AAAAA-'"",..""'o~~o""'AAAAAA"""A"""A"'A"""A"'A""'A""'A"'A""'A""'A""'A'" 
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A .... " A .. • .. 
...... A .. A A A .. A .... A .. A 
..::_Conaratu!ations 
ZJ 

:Jane tEergan ..:we're proud of ..:you. 
:.9ll[ our fove, :Mom, 'Dar£ & Joe .. 


The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Table talk 

Seniors Mike Deer and Susan Moriarity enjoy an after-dinner con­versation at the Senior Send-Off Wednesday night. 
Congratulations Rob Thomson/ Pangborn The best is yet to come! 
We're very pro Love, Dad, Mom,Chris,Linda,Susan,Michael and Samatha 

Special to The Observer 
David Tannor, assistant pro­fessor of chemistry and bio­chemistry at Notre Dame, has been named a 1991 Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellow by the Sloan Foundation in New York City. 
Ninety Sloan fellowships, with unrestricted grants of $30,000 each, were given this year to young scientists involved in basic scientific and technological research throughout the country. 
The Sloan Foundation was established In 1934 by the long­time chairman of General Motors Corp. 
Tannor, who earned his 
bachelor's degree from Columbia University and his doctorate from the University of California-Los Angeles, is a theoretical chemist whose re­search concerns the fundamen­tal laws of physics and their application in chemistry. 
He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1989. 
In a departure from tradi­
tiona) physical chemistry, in which emphasis is placed on the empirical measurement of chemical reaction rates, Tannor studies how the principles be­hind the laws of quantum me­chanics affect the motions of molecules. 
He is part of a very small group of theoretical chemists interested in time dependent quantum mechanics. 

With computer assistance he hopes to be able to study how the nuclei of molecules rear­range in the course of a chemi­cal reaction and whether the nuclear rearrangements can be controlled using carefully tai­lored laser pulses. 


VIDEOTAPES Mass
Baccalaureate ent 
C0mmencem r1111ailable• • • 
are""" 
EDUCATIONAL MEDIA 
Room 9 of the CCE Building P.O. Box 1088 Notre Dame, IN 46556 219/239-5465 
pick up order forms In all dorms & from Educational Medial 
"Home of Tex Mex" 
Bring in this ad and receive free appetizer with dinner during Commencement Weekend 
Friday, May 17, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Professor Tannor named Sloan Research Fellow 
Varma is named outstanding teacher 
Special to The Observer 
Arvind Varma, Schmitt pro­fessor of chemical engineering, has been named the College of Engineering's outstanding teacher for the 1990-91 aca­demic year. 
Known for his outstanding dedication to teaching, Varma taught the present senior class in three different courses. Stu­dents report him to be a "superb lecturer and lab instructor," according to Anthony Michel, McCloskey dean of the College and Freimann professor of electrical engineering, and describe him as a "willing friend and mentor." 
Student reviews have referred to Varma's lectures and teaching methods as explicit, methodical, clear and organized. He's been credited with breaking down difficult concepts into simpler elements, explaining logical connections and methods of reasoning related to a problem, and allowing for spontaneous 
i ~ >.·41 
Arvlnd Varma 
explanation of difficult points. 

One student wrote that when an entire class performs poorly on an exam, he seeks to learn the reasons for poor perfor­mances, while another said, "His effect on us shows best in the way that different groups of students presented their lab­oratory projects. Five of the six groups used his style of teach­ing because it provides the greatest level of understand­ing." 
Michel said that Varma is known to students for his ex­tensive availability, and that his manner breeds a high degree of comfort between professor and student. In addition he takes time to talk to his students about graduate school, job op­portunities and aspects of an engineering career. 
Said one student, "It is a rare and valuable opportunity to work with a person with such a great character and work ethic. He will be the professor that we will vividly remember twenty years from now, and his innu­ence will be matched by few others in our lifetime." 
A native of India, Varma holds a master's degree from the University of New Brunswick and a doctorate from the University of Minnesota. He was a senior research engineer with the Union Carbide Corp. for two years before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1975. 
Varma's research interests are in chemical and catalytic reaction engineering, kinetics and catalysis and mathematical modeling. 

Road construction to close Juniper Road 
Special to The Observer 
Road improvements and other construction at Notre Dame will necessitate several road closings during the coming months. 
Juniper Road between Edison Road and Dorr Road will be closed from May 20 until mid­August. The closing is to permit completion of the Juniper Road safety project begun last sum­mer between Dorr and Douglas Roads. 
.... 
1 
f 
As in the first phase of the project, this summer's work will include the addition of sidewalks, improved lighting and improved pedestrian crossings. 
Also beginning Monday, Dorr Road between Notre Dame Av­enue and the service drive east of the Notre Dame Post Office will be closed to permit installa­tion of a water line to the new DeBartolo Classroom Building. The road is expected to reopen by June 30. 
C();1/~RIITttLIITI();1/rf 
TEtt/ 

11rf f(()fl~() Of/T/;1177} TIIEOEEPER8Lf/EtEit [)();1/Tf"OR~ETTII!t rfe!loot orrlrfll. 
The Intersection of Dorr and Juniper Roads will remain open throughout most of the summer, and Juniper Road traffic will be detoured via Notre Dame Avenue, University Club Drive and Dorr Road. 
The Dorr-Junlper Intersection, as well as portions of Juniper between Dorr and Douglas Roads, will be closed for a two­week period between July 19 and August 18 for construction of pedestrian crossings. 
Renaldi 
continued from page 1 
144th annual commencement tomorrow. She will speak on what she has learned at Saint Mary's and how students can use their college education as a "bridge" to learning in their adult life, she said. 
During her four years at Saint Mary's, Renaldi rose from a freshman participant to the editor of the College's literary magazine Chimes. She was also active in student government, serving as the English depart­ment's student representative to 


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.::~~~~~~~ the Student Activities Council
~ 
and on the Admissions and 

Congratulations to the BEST daughter in the World! Elizabeth-Anne Crisp '91 Love, Mother and Dad 

Scholarship Committee. 
Renaldi studied in London 
during the spring of her junior 
year through a program at 
Iowa's Central College. While in 
London, she took classes in 
English, history, and fine arlo;. 
An internship with the United Nations was made possible by the time in London. Her duties at the UN included "filing and organizing UN document" and researching, she said. 
Renaldi plans to continue her education at Indiana Univer­sity's School of Law in Bloom­ington, ln. "Once I get out, I would like to work as a clerk for a judge," she said, "but beyond that, I am not sure what field of 

~ •· 111,.~-'l.... lftftllftftl~ftl~M~M~M~M.~''/;l'Q.~.~~~~~-0..~.~,~~.~..,.~.~,~.~-Ia~ I wo~ld like to purs_ue.~ c. 
-~-----­
"~-~----~"---~­
r 







Arthur Andersen Welcotnes the Follo-wing 1991 University of Notre Datne and Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Finn 



Christopher B. Anderson 
Cleveland Office 
John F. Berardino 
Stamford Office 
Ronald P. Bielski 
Chicago Office 
Kelly S. Bradley 

Sacramento Office 
Kevin E. Buhrfiend 
Chicago Office 
Wendy M. Burek 
Chicago Office 
Catherine C. Byrne 
Chicago Office 
Ryan D. Cahill 

Chicago Office 
Michael J. Caputo 
New York Office 
Michael J. Connell 
New York Office 
Claudine A. Coscia 
New York Office 
Elizabeth A. Crisp 
Chicago Office 
Victor Cuciniello 
New York Office 
Amy M. Cunningham 
Chicago Office 
Patricia A. deMink 
Chicago Office 
Derek M. Dobecki 
Chicago Office 
Megan V. Frigon 
Chicago Office 
Kelly J. Furlan 

Chicago Office 
Michael J. Gallagher 
Chicago Office 
Michael R. Gervasio 
Chicago Office 
W. Todd Hudson 
New York Office 
Michael C. Jillson 
Atlanta Office 
Paul H. Keffler 

Fort Lauderdale Office 
Suzanne M. Koester 
Chicago Office 
Mark A. Kovarik 
St. Louis Office 
David P. Kuipers 
Chicago Office 
Anthony P. Livorsl 
Chicago Office 
Andrew M. McNeill 
Atlanta Office 
Frank L. Montabon 
Chicago Office 
Frank W. Mount 
Dallas Office 
Thomas E. Nowak 
Chicago Office 
Michael J. O'Connor 
Chicago Office 
Roy J. Ott Jr. 
New Jersey Office 
Jonathan 0. Paluga 
Chicago Office 
Edward J. Philbin Ill 
Boston Office 
Nancy E. Rafinski 
Chicago Office 
Mark D. Rastovac 
Chicago Office 
Leon J. Reymond 
New Orleans Office 
Rachel Reyna 
San Antonio Office 
Barton S. Richards 
Chicago Office 
William E. Schaffler 
Dallas Office 
Boyd J. Seidler 
Milwaukee Office 
Michael J. Sinnott 
New Jersey Office 
Paul M. Stephan 
Minneapolis Office 
Daniel E. Stopar 
Cleveland Office 
Kevin M. Whelan 
Boston Office 




~~..... 
-------------=-l
Viewpoint
Friday, May 17, 1991 page 15 
--Ih-=-e c--Obse.-~~·r~
---a.~Y=-~ --­
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill 
Managing Editor Lisa Eaton 
Ne-Editor ....................... Monica Yant Viewpoint Editor..................Joe Moody Spor1• Editor ••••••••••••.•.David Dieteman Accent Edltor.•••.••••••••••••.•.John O'Brien Photo Editor •..•••••••••••••••••••••.Eric Bailey Saint Mary'• Edltor............ Emily Willen 
Business Manager Gilbert Gomez 

Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Ad Design Manager .••.••...Aiissa Murphy Production Manager ••.•.••.....Jay Colucci Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan OTS Director .•.•..••..••......... Dan Shinnick Controller•••••.•••••••..•••..•Thomas Thomas 

O'Hara wishes seniors well 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor·in·Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
Father Malloy extends thanks to ND seniors 
Dear Notre Dame Seniors: 
I offer you my congratulations as you complete this stage of your life here at Notre Dame. I am sure that you can look back over this span of time with a real sense of satisfaction and achievement. 
Not only have you risen to the challenge of a very competitive academic environment, but you also have assumed responsibility for the quality of life of our campus. In vanous student organizations you have provided leadersh10 and service. We are all the beneficiaries of your good will and creativity. 
I am sure that you find it amazing to recall all the changes that have taken place during your years here. Deep friendships have been formed, a wider perspective on the world has been Rained, and your religious fatth has been tested by experience. 
I hope and pray that you will be blessed in the years ahead. We will miss you but It is appropriate that you take on a new set of challenges as you begin your life elsewhere. 
You are always welcome back on the campus. A part of you will always remain with us. We count on your support in your new status as an alumnus of the Universitv. 
Thanks· for all that you have contributed to our common life. All best wishes and congratula­tions. 
Father Edward A. Malloy President University of Notre Dame 

Hickey bids farewell to 'talented' Class of 1991 

Dear Saint Mary's Seniors: 
This is one of the last times I will address you as seniors. To­morrow, you will become alum­nae of Saint Mary's, members of an active and committed alumnae association over 16,000 women strong. 
I hope that in the future I will again address you as alumnae when you return to campus for College events, reunions and, perhaps one day, as parents. 
But, for now, I would like to talk to you once more as Saint Mary's students. The contribu­tions that you have made to our college have made it a better place.
Especially at Saint Mary's, Individual effort makes the difference. You will be re­membered by the faculty,administrators, staff, and remaining students for your energy, talent, and compassion. 
DOONESBURV 
I also believe that just as every student makes a contribution to Saint Mary' s, so docs Saint Mary' s make an impact in every student's life. As a Catholic women's college, Saint Mary's forms a community that fosters leadership and in­tellectual and spiritual growth. 
As members of that community, you have been given the tools to begin the life­long process of clarifying and living your goals and values . 
Apply the skills and knowledge that ~ou have acquired at Saint Marys. The greatest gift of your education is in the example of your life. 
With the Sisters of the Holy Cross, the faculty and staff of Saint Mar{s, we wish you all God's blessmgs in your future. 
William A. Hickey President Saint Mary's College 

Dear Graduating Seniors: 
I would like to take this oppor­tunity to extend my prayers and best wishes to the members of the Class of 1991. Commence­ment is a time of many mixed emotions. Pride in your achieve­ments, excitement and apprehension about new beginnings, happiness and sadness come together as you prepare to leave. 
For those of you who are grad­uating Seniors, I hope that we have achieved our goal of providing you with an education that integrates the life of the mind witli the life of the heart. May you·r commitment to your faith In God and to service of His people match your dedication to your chosen vocation and profession, Notre Dame has high expectations of its graduates. The tremendous contribution that our alumni make to society and to the Church is a testament to the importance of these high ex­pectations. 
For those of you leaving with graduate and professional de­grees, I hope that you will carry with you the best of our tradi­tions as they relate to your dis­cipline. If you bring to your cho­sen field a strong set of ethical convictions and a commitment 
Dear Editor: 
When I accepted the newly created position of Medical Services Coordinator in September of 1989 I new I would be working with a group of students formerly known as the ND/SMC Branch of the American Red Cross. Little did I realize I would come to love this group as my "family".
Now, as I prepare to move away from this "family" to relocate in eastern Michigan, I find myself reflecting on all that has been accomplished in my short time here. 
I frequently have referred to this group as "my kids." Yet the maturity that has been displayed in even the newest members of this organization has given me renewed hope in our future. This group of young people, now known as the First Aid Services Team, is dedicated, well trained, and some of the most enthusiastic young adults I've met . Together we have become a recognized student organization which I have proudly been the Faculty Advisor for . We've fined tuned a long standing group and have given it a new outlook, including uniforms and ID's . 
We've grown from 25 to 85 ac­tive members in 18 months and re-established our purpose of providing top notch medical coverage at special events and to NVA athletes.AII of you, including Pete and Craig, gave me the greatest gift of all just by knowin!f you and allowing me to grow wtth you. The award you bestowed in my name, and will continue to award, for a first 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

QUOTE Of THE DAY 
to justice, you will represent the very best of Notre Dame. 
Finally, a note of gratitude to all of you. You not only take from here; you also give. You have made a variety of contributions to your colleagues, to the institution and to those of us who remain behind to assist students who will follow you. 
May Our Lady, Notre Dame, continue to watch over you In the years ahead. We are lilessed to have you as members of the Notre Dame Family. 
Professor Patricia A. O'Hara Vice President for Student Affairs 
year volunteer who has made the most significant contribution to the group stunned and honored me more than you will ever know. 
I will miss each one of you, and wish to congratulate our seniors -Laura, Jeff G., Matt, John A., Jeff B., John V., Shane, Martin, Gary and Mike. It has been an absolute pleasure to have worked with you and to have become your friend. You've helped me have the greatest job anyone could ever encounter. 
May God Bless you In all of your endeavors. I sincerely hope that some day you will fini:i a job that gives you as much joy as my time at Notre Dame lias given me. 
Joann Burrington Medical Services Coordinator 


'It you thought education was expensive, try ignorance.' 
Derek Bok

v., 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
....---------­a e 16 
#1... September 24, 1987 
'Monk' Malloy inaugurated 
F
ather Edward Malloy was inaugurated the 16th president of the University Wednesday at the Joyce ACC. 'Notre Dame has a mission of service to society and the Church,' said Malloy, the first Notre Dame president to be honored with a formal inauguration. 'I am deeply honored to be (Notre Dame's) president,' he said. 
'Father Malloy, on behalf of the trustees of the University I commend to you the presidential leadership of the University of Notre Dame and officially invest you as its 16th president,' said Chairman of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees Donald Keough. 
About 5,000 administrators, trustees, faculty, and students gathered in the JACC for the ceremony. Representatives from 133 colleges and universities also attended. 
In his inaugural address, Malloy said Notre Dame's greatest strength is its 'distinctiveness as a religious institution.' 
'Notre Dame will continue self-consciously and proudly proclaiming itself to be a Catholic university,' he said. 
Malloy said Notre Dame will continue to emphasize academics over athletics, 'We will attempt to excel in every form of intercollegiate athletics, but not at the price of distorting our primary role as educators and moral guides.' 
Malloy said he also plans to continue Notre Dame's commitment to undergraduate and graduate work. 

$20K in hall matching funds suspended 
Matching funds for residence halls have been suspended indefinitely as a result of damage caused by the Oct. 19 snowball fight, Father David Tyson said in a letter to hall presidents. 
The matching funds account for over $20,000, which is allocated to the residence halls for capital im­provements. 
'I cannot see any point in allocating funds for hall improvement when those funds should be used to defray the cost of repairs to the halls,' said Tyson in the letter delivered to hall presidents' rooms during mid-semester break. 
#9... Novanmar 2, 1988 
Bush highlights 'great 
divide' of the campaign 
Stepan Center hosted a pep rally on a national level Tuesday when Vice President George Bush made a special visit to Notre Dame one week before the presidential election. 
Noting the football team's recent number one ranking, Bush said, "Thanks to Republican leadership in the White House and Lou Holtz's leadership here, both Notre Dame and American say, 'We're number one!' " 
Bush's promises to work for peace and the poor were accompanied by chants of "four more years" and loud applause. 
#2... August 24, 1988 
Administration changes alcohol policy 
After more than a year of reviewing the recommendations of students and task force members, the University has issued a new alcohol policy barring alcohol at hall formals. 
One of the policy's most noticeable revisions concerns SYR (screw Your Roommate) dances, Malloy said. Based on the task force recommendations, dorms are permitted only one all hall forma! ~?.~"h f:!1f!''"'tar 
Malloy said. 'I feel confident we can maintain a high-quality social life at the same time we come to grips with the problem of the abuse of alcohol.' 
#3... November 18, 1989 
St. Michael's destroyed 
in early morning blaze 
An explosove fire engulfed and destroyed St. Michael's Laundry in the early morning hours Thursday ... 
By 2:30 a.m. flames could be seen burning through the roof, as the inside of the building glowed brightly from the spreading flames ... 
The Golden Dome of the Administration Building was almost most invisihl<> h<>hin~ " thl.-\< .-ln11d of black smoke and flying cinders could be seen as far south as LaFortune Student Center. 
#5... May 5, 1989 
Notre Dame given $33 million 
Notre Dame has been given $33 million, the 18th largest gift to higher education, for construction of a new quadrangle on the area which is presently Green field and parking lots. 
Edward DeBartolo of Youngstown, Ohio is donating the $16 million Edward J. DeBartolo Classroom facility and the $14 million Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The performing arts center is named after his wife who passed away in 1987. 
The DeBartolo gift is the largest in the history of Notre Dame. 
#8... April 18, 1991 
SUFR stages sit-in in Registrar's office 
A group of 60 students staged a day­long sit-in Wednesday in the Registrar's office demanding open negotiation with University President Father Edward Malloy regarding the demands raised by members of Students United for Respect (SUFR). 
After almost 12 hours of discussion and negotiation, the students agreed to leave the office. A smaller group of students, under the auspices of Student Government, were scheduled to meet with Malloy in his room at 
12:30 a.m. today. 

#4... January 17, 1991 
GULF WAR BEGINS 
The United States and its allies hurled a mighty air armada against Iraq early Thursday to crush that Arab nation's military power and drive it from conquered Kuwait. 
'The liberation of Kuwait has begun,' President Bush declared in Washington. 
'Operation Desert Shield' became 'Operation Desert Storm' around 12:50 
a.m. as F-15E fighter-bombers took off from the largest U.S. air base in cen­tral Saudi Arabia. 
First reports indicated Iraqi resistance was limited, U.S. defense officials said. 
#7••• October 29, 1987 
Honor code to debut in spring 
Beginning in January of 1988, sixty percent of freshman courses and some upperclass courses will be conducted under the University's new honor code. 
The proposed honor code contains: 1)a pledge signed by each student indicating willingness to abide by the code and a pledge signed by each student when submitting work indicating that the student has neither given nor received unauthorized aid, 
2) a requirement that any student aware of any honor code violation report the violation, 3) a system of sanctions. 
#1 0... March 10, 1988 Reagan visits NO for stamp dedication 
Gipp returned to Notre Dame on Wednesday as President Reagan relived the role he made famous in the 1940 film "Knute Rockne-All American" at the dedication ceremony for the Knute Rockne commemorative stamp. 
Quoting lines from the film and praising Rockne's legend, Reagan's address highlighted the ceremony in the Joyce ACC. 
Speaking for the second time at Notre Dame since his election as president, Reagan said Rockne was a man of vision. 'Rockne exemplified the Ameri­can spirit of never giving up.' 
rver page 17 
111111 

#2... AprU 18, 1991 
Phelps ends 20-year tenure with ND hoops 
The Digger era is over. 
After 20 years, 393 wins and a perfect 56-56 record in graduating players who completed all four years of eligibility, Notre Dame head basketball coach Richard "Digger" Phelps, 49, retired yesterday. 
"My decision is for the next decade of my life, there are other things I want to do," said PheiLs. , 
Phelps has ed the Irish to the NCAA tournament 14 times, and Phelps-led teams have knocked off seven number­one teams, the first of which ended UCLA's 88-game win streak. 
#6... October 16, 1988 Irish edge 'Canes, boost title chances 
A season of hype came down to three hours of football, and three hours of football came down to one play. 
And when Steve Walsh's pass came down in the end zone, down with it fell Maimi's 36-game regular-season winning streak, No. 1 ranking and recent dominance of Notre Dame football. 
"This was a win by the Notre Dame spirit," said Holtz after the Oct. 15 contest that boosted the Irish to 6-0 and ended the frustration of humbling losses to the Hurricanes in 1985 (58-7) and 1987 (24-0). 
#8... April 22, 1991 Rocket skips NFL for Argo's $26 million 
The fastest player in football is now the richest. 
Raghib "Rocket" Ismail spurned the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday and signed the most lucrative contract in pro football history with the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League. 
Toronto owner Bruce McNall said Ismail contract includes a guaranteed $18 million in U.S. dollars over four years and incentives that could Increase the value of the deal to more than $25 million. 
#1... January 2, 1989 
Fiesta Bowl victory seals national title 
S 
omeone once told Lou Holtz that Notre Dame Is supposed to be top when it comes to football. Now, three years after taking over as head coach 
of the Fighting Irish, Holtz has put them there. For Notre Dame, the "Battle for No. 1" was the perfect ending to a perfect season. 
The Irish reigned in 1988, and in the second day of 1989 they claimed their crown with a 34-21 pounding of West, Virginia. 
"I'm so happy for our players," Holtz said. "It's really a dream to win the national championship. I dreamt about winning it, but I never thought I'd be a part of something like this as a head coach." 
· A record crowd of 74,911 saw a stingy Irish defence shut down yet another high-powered offense led by a big-name quarterback. Major Harris and the Mountaineers were no match for Notre Dame, which out-gained West Virginia 455­282 yards on the day and did not allow a first down until nearly six minutes into the second quarter. 
Irish quarterback Tony Rice stole the show from Harris, completing 7 of 11 passes for 213 yards and two touchdowns to earn the game's offensive Most Valuable 

Player. 

#3... Dacalmar 7, 1987 
Brown wins Heisman with surprising ease 
The surprise at the 53rd annual Heisman Trophy awards was that there was no surprise. 
Notre Dame's senior multi-purpose back ,Tim Brown walked away with this year's trophy Saturday night, far outdistancing Syracuse quarterback Don McPherson. 
Brown finished the year with 1,847 
, :~II nnrnose yards and '":•:::-. touchdowns. He was named the National Player of the Year by both the Walter Camp Foundation and Scripps-Howard News Service. 

Rise of the women's basketball team 
When the class of '91 entered Notre Dame in 1987 the women's basketball program was coming off of a 12-15 season and had a new coach in Muffet McGraw. 
McGraw probably turned the Irish fortunes around with four straight 20­win seasons. Last season the Irish gained national prominence with their first ever ranking in the top 25 poll. 
And the future looks even brighter for the women's program. Michelle Marciniak, the nation's premiere player as a high school senior, will enroll in Notre Dame this fall. 
#9... January 20, 1988 
Three women's clubs reach varsity level 
"Softball, women's soccer and women's golf will all become varsity sports for the 1988-89 academic year, according to Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal. 
Rosenthal also indicated that six sports will receive additional scholarships, starting with the 1988-89 academic year. 
While some responses among coaches and club presidents to all these changes have included shock and bewilderment, most of them are excited and encouraged by the changes. 

Notre Dame signs five-yeartelevision contract with NBC 
Notre Dame and NBC announced an agreement Monday for nationally televising all Notre Dame home football games for a five-year period beginnln in 1991. 
"We are delighted to have the opportunity to present all of our home games to our fans on a national basis," Notre Dame Athletic Director Richard Roscnth::.! said. "Our home !lames have 
been sold out for several decades now, and we hope that national television con go a long way to help alleviate some o the ticket problems." 
#7... January 1 , 1990 
Irish drive Buffs out of Orange Bowl 
Notre Dame wore down the Colorado Buffaloes in the third quarter to convincingly win the 1990 Orange Bowl 21-6. 
Had the Buffaloes won, they would have been the undisputed national champions. 
But the Irish (12-1), behind the strength of a second-quarter goal-line stand and a monumental third quarter, beat previously unbeaten Colorado (11-1) to finish with the beat record in college football, but second to Miami in the Associated Press poll. 
#1 0... August 28, 1987 Rosenthal named new Notre Dame A.D. 
Integrity and experience were the key issues discussed at the press conference Aug. 4 naming Richard A. Rosenthal the new director of athletics at Notre Dame. 
The 54-year-old Notre Dame alumnus and former chief executive of St. Joseph Bank and Trust Co. admitted to lacking experience in the area of college athletics. 
Rosenthal was hired as athletic director after Gene Corrigan announced that he was resigning his post to become the new commissioner of the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
, 

... 
... 
, 
Accent 
May 17, 1991
Page 18 

NO students will 'Teach for America' next year
Helping 
By KELLEY TUTHILL teachers and high school teach­University of Southern Editor-in-Chief ers with expertise in science, California, the corps members math and foreign languages. will spend six weeks gaining Seven Notre Dame students Teach for America received a experience as student teachers, survived Teach for America's high number of applications taking courses and attending
Hands 
tough selection process and this year from Notre Dame, says lectures. have been invited to serve as Hottenrott. "They were really The final two weeks of the teachers in schools across qualified applicants." training are an induction pe­America next year. riod, says Voigt. Teach for 
The students will learn first­The selection process involves America flies the teachers to hand what teaching is all about a written application, a sample their placements and helps along with 600 to 700 other re­teaching demonstration and them get acquainted with the 
cent college graduates. two interviews. The process is area. "They show you around 
Megan Noone, Sarah Voigt, very selective and the students the city and take you to meet Francis Corcoran and Michelle must make it through each step the school principal," she says. Gambs have decided to be a successfully, she says. This fall will be the third year part of the teaching corps for Voigt will spend the next two that Teach for America will the next two years. Seven stu­years teaching in the Compton send recent graduates out to 
dents were offered positions district of Los Angeles. She will teach in schools. The corps and three have yet to respond, be teaching at the elementary members also teach in says Katherine Hottenrott, the school level. Brooklyn, New Orleans, rural 
public relations officer at Teach Voigt says she became inter­North Carolina and rural for America. ested in the program because Georgia, says Hottenrott. 
Thirty-six students from the "society's educational system is University applied to teach in in bad shape. I like this pro­This fall the program is ex­the program. gram because it works within panding to Oakland, Calif., 
The program was conceived the system to improve the edu­Houston, the Rio Grande Valley by Princeton University gradu­cation for children." in Texas, the Mississippi Delta ate Wendy Kopp. While a senior She thinks she may stay in region in Ark., and Miami, says in college, she wrote a thesis education and considers this Hottenrott. describing a program for young opportunity a "baptism by fire." Corps members teach in both teachers modeled after the Voigt has some experience in elementary and high schools Peace Corps. teaching as she tutored in the and will earn the standard 
Her idea became a reality University's Neighborhood salary for a first-year teacher in when she persuaded major cor­Study Help Program for the their district. porations to donate $1 million, past four years. She was also a The four Notre Dame students set up a staff, found interested playground supervisor during will join other University graduates and talked schools her summer vacations. graduates who have decided to into hiring them. "I'm really excited [about the try this relatively new program. 
Certain school districts are program]," says Voigt. She "I've been lucky enough to go targeted because they suffer leaves for a training session on to good schools all my life," says from persistent teacher short­June 28. Voigt. She hopes to give the ages. The districts have a par­Training for the program same encouragement she ticular need for elementary consists of an eight-week inten­received in school to the chil­school teachers, bilingual sive summer institute. At the dren she will be teaching. 
Is Pentecost a feast of cultural diversity? 
I would like to nominate Pen­ minorities?  intellectuals or eggheads.  
tecost as a feast of cultural di­versity. The Bible says that on  If I have been dragging my feet up until now, failing to be­ Father Robert Griffin  The University also tries to give students a leg up on their  
the day of Pentecost, the fol­ come culturally diverse, you  personal lives by introducing  
lowers of Jesus "were all with on~ accord in one place. And  must remember that the Amer­ica I grew up in took pride in  Letters to a Lonely God  them to "Quaecumque sunt vera"-to whatever things are  
suddenly there came a sound  itself as the melting pot.  true, decent, respectable, and  
from heaven as of a rushing  America as the melting pot  Pentecost, celebrating the the Bride of the Spirit, ad­ fulfilling. If God is in this place  
mighty wind... and there ap­ grew by leaps and bounds, once  mere reversal of the confusion dressed as the Seat of Wisdom,  as a think-tank, then Love is  
peared unto them cloven  television started to invade our  of tongues that made Babel a as its principal patroness. The  here as a free gift of God that  
tongues like as of frre ... and they  homes and lives. Women,  household word, would be, per­survival of Notre Dame was not  comes with the territory. God's  
were all filled with the Holy  adopting hair styles and dress  haps, a minor feast. The Holy guaranteed, just because the  grace is here as part of the cli­ 
r  Ghost, and began to speak in  codes from the tube, gave a  Ghost, descending in fire, has Founder perched the statue of  mate, giving the soul a home.  
other tongues ... "  new meaning to Kipling's tired  more to offer us than the Berlitz Mary on the Golden Dome.  Notre Dame is not, nor never  
The multitude of foreigners,  wisecrack about the Colonel's  school of languages does. As the Creation, even when it's  could be, a cloister that can  
hearing them, were amazed  lady and Judy O'Grady being  agent of the New Birth, He sacramental, does not give up  save the graduates from mak­ 
and marvelled, "saying, are not  sisters under their skins.  restores lost innocence to souls its secrets easily, without trial  ing dumb mistakes when  
all these which speak  From sea to shining sea,  dead with guilt. and error, to scholars in search  they're enticed by the deceits of  
Galileans? And how hear we  Americans tend to be on the  Pentecost as the feast of the of truth, and scientists studying  the world and the flesh; but ed­ 
every man in our own tongue,  same wave-length. Only a  pouring out of God's love gives the cosmic grandeur, and the­ ucators can at least give them a  
wherein we were born?"  poorly-informed American fails  hope to the Church as a com­ologians obliged to be truthful  head start in telling right from  
Cultural diversity is not my  to understand the humor in one  munity of lovers adopted as the in their discourses about God,  wrong, and motivating them to  
strong suit; that doesn't mean  of Johnny Carson's monologues,  children of God. The Holy Ghost whose blood we see on the rose  a sense of duty, and to love as  
I'm unwilling to make cultural  because all of us are acquainted  brings us to Christ, in whom Our Lady is a guiding star,  the tie that binds Jives and  
diversity a part of my religion,  with the people, places and  there is no East and West; in reminding us that He's got the  strong marriages together.  
and assign to it a holy day that  events he's making sport of.  Him, there is neither Greek nor whole world in His hands. Wis­ Notre Dame has had its pri­ 
can be celebrated canonically  Television brought the global  Jew; and ethnics, diverse in dom starts with man's under­ orities set since Day One. Cul­ 
as a moveable feast like  village into our living rooms  their culture, become unified in standing that God is love, and  tural diversity has always been  
Christmas. I'm not even sure  until there were no secrets left  the brotherhood He offers them. that the cosmos is covered with  on the list, though it was called  
what cultural Diversity is all  to keep people culturally alien.  In God's sight, star differs His thumbprints, which only the  by another name before we had  
about to a gringo like me who  Then Americans started  from star in glory; and it's the eyes of Faith can see. But  buzz words to describe it.  
would not be caught dead in a  searching for their roots. Eth­ same way with souls, red or where Faith is all-seeing,  Cultural diversity can mean  
Taco Bell, even to use the re­ nics who have succeeded in un­ yellow, black or white. Each Science travels blind at Notre  many things. Culturally diverse  
stroom.  covering their roots now want  soul in its essence or quiddity is Dame, the same as it does at  people should love music, or  
Sometimes when I read the  their neighbors to understand  as unique as the creatures who Harvard and Yale, and the  read poetry and study art. Cul­ 
phrase, "cultural diversity,"  that they (the ethnics} were not  paired off to enter Noah's ark. Pope's religion is not a yardstick  tural diversity means being  
used 148 times in a single issue of The Observer, I wonder if the  descended from the social equivalent of poor white trash.  God's children, together, be­that scholars use to measure come a United Nations of di­truth.  open to anything useful or beautiful which saves human  
phrase is untranslatable, or if it  To become as aware of my  verse types created in the Bye-and-bye, we trust, the  beings from remaining isolated  
lacks a definition, I realize that  neighbor's roots, in which he  divine image, forming a Pope will catch up with the  and self-centered.  
whenever "cultural diversity" is  takes pride, as I am of my own  rainbow coalition. truth, or the truth will catch up  But the way a University like  
mentioned, I should come to  roots, in which I take pride, is  Why should cultural diversity with the Pope. In the meantime  Notre Dame stays culturally di­ 
attention as a citizen of the  to become culturally diverse.  become a priority demanding we wait to see whether it's the  verse is by being true to its own  
world, willing to be all things to  The closer my neighbor is to  our attention as though it were Pope or the academicians who  agenda-and it is possible that  
all human beings allowing the  his roots, the more he wants to  the only game in town-at a blink first in the eye-balling that  none of us has dreamed how  
"children of the lesser gods" to  acquaint me with them. Only a  University that's part of the goes on over the struggle to find  great Notre Dame could become  
be all things to me.  churl would begrudge ethnics  Kingdom where variety is the certainty.  as a Christian university serving  
If I should put myself in the  their place in the sun, and I am  spice of life? Undergraduates should rely  mankind-if we're faithful to  
line of fire for the gifts of Pen­ enriched by any experience that  At Pentecost, the Divine Wis­on the parish church for their  what the Pentecost God may  
tecost, would this be a short cut  shows me that no race is an is­ dom we call the Holy Spirit de­sanctification, if they hunger for  have in store for us, if we  
to becoming culturally diverse  land, cut off from the mainland  scended on the Church to bless it. Notre Dame's mission is to  deserve it-in a nation that  
enough to meet the projected  which claims so much of God's  us with truth. Notre Dame, at train young professionals in via,  seems to have lost its moral  
standards of the campus  attention.  its inception, chose Our Lady, turning some of them into  bearings.  

Accent
May 17, 1991 Page 19 
The 
Saint Mary's 
Family 
The Napoli family shows that sticking together means staying close ­
By JOHN O'BRIEN and likes the fact her elder daughters uwe could yell at each other and SMC alumna. Accent Editor stayed in town for school. then it would be done," she adds. ul like it," she says of her sisters' "It was hard living together, but I'm school. 
For many people, going to college is ul've enjoyed having them so close," glad we did it," says Lisa. While the past year has brought the the perfect opportunity to become she says. ul got to see them a lot and Living with Lisa helped to cultivate family closer, Lisa's graduation independent of their families. meet their friends." their friendship, according to Anne, tomorrow and Beth's graduation to 
For Lisa and Anne Napoli, though, For Anne, having her older sister at but it also helped them stay close to first grade (at a local Catholic school) attending Saint Mary's actually Saint Mary's had extra bonuses. Beth. will separate the sisters next year. helped bring their family closer. UI was an exchange student for a Anne spent many Fridays Lisa will be moving to Chicago and 
Lisa, a senior, and Anne, a freshman year after high school. Living with babysitting Beth in her LeMans Hall Anne says she'll miss her. But Lisa not only chose to stay close to their Lisa made the arrangements a lot dorm room. It must have made an says Chicago isn't that far. South Bend residence, they chose to more convenient," Anne says. impression on Beth because she ult won't be so bad," Lisa says. "I be roommates. Considering their little However convenient it might have already wants to return to Saint want to be close to my family and I sister Beth, 7, Is a student at the Early been, sharing a room wasn't always Mary's 12 years from now when she want to see my youngest sister grow Childhood Development Center at so pleasant. Occasionally personalities goes to college. up." Saint Mary's, their entire family Is would clash. If that growing up process continues 
attending Saint Mary's at the same UThat's part of the reason I wanted uGoing swimming in Regina" made as planned, Beth will someday be a time. to live with her," Anne says. "I wanted the biggest Impact on the youngest Saint Mary's woman. Carol Napoli, the girls' mother, to be able to argue and not worry sister, Beth says. When she grows up uThat would be kind of funny," Anne considers her family a 'close' family about it," she jokes. she wants to be a veterinarian-and a says. "It would start a tradition." 
the National Enquirer, choose and laugh at the date who shoes, and the floor is splotched front desk attendant, and pro­else can squeak out uno." dance dates from the threw up on that brand new with the vomit of other ceed upstairs. After a brief conference with "dogbook," and ask cab drivers formal. But this is the stuff freshmen. Nearly everyone in uwe're having a happy hour,u the rest of the pack, you tell the to drive up and down St. Louis college is made of, the things no the bar is smoking, then you say, for lack of better con­cabbie to take you to Saint 
Street until they hear excessive one forgets. Maybe freshman coughing, when only a handful versation material. Louis street, and the seven of noise coming from one of the year wasn't so bad after all. of these same people were UGood, u he says in return, you pile out in front of a two­houses. You are a freshman. But you are freshman, and smoking two hours ago. which you take to mean he is story blue house with peeling 
your biggest concerns are de­uLet's get out of here," you planning on getting very drunk. paint and a screen door that is
Erin Cusack 
ciding if you still want your moan to the others. ul just saw You decide he must not like you hanging by one hinge. It takes
Reflections 
boyfriend from home and get­my SYR date from last week­already. almost ten minutes of standing 
Sophomores put on superior ting through the 8 a.m. classes end.u The evening is going fairly around outside the house be­airs in front of you, although you have every day. That was your first uScrew smoothly until your date exits to fore you get the courage to go their minor status limits them You walk into a near-empty, Your Hoommateu dance. The bathroom for an hour. His in. to many freshmen-infested lo­yet infamous student bar process began by picking out a friend informs you that he is · As you go In, a tall guy with a cations, such as the uanyone­named uChips," seven freshmen photograph of a Notre Dame throwing up, and when he fi­IWTC haircut shoves a cup at 
can-get-in" student bar Bridget girls with ponytails and hair freshman from the udogbook,u nally emerges, he is ghi>stly you and says, "$2.00." You McGuire's. You get to meet a lot bows. A middle-age man at the and forcing your roommate to white and immediately tries to hand him two crumpled bills of sophomore gu_ys this wa_y. bar gives you a big smile and call this incredible specimen to kiss you. You smell vomit. and follow the crowd in the 
Juniors count down the days lifts his drink at you. You smile pair the two of you up for the It is finally 2 a.m., time for the general direction of the keg. until they are 21, then spend back nervously and hope he dance. young men to leave. You drag You don't know anyone, but their birthday bar-hopping, goes away. Your date had volunteered to your date down to the front that's what freshman year is all downing countless shots of uSex "Can I please see some J.D.?" ride the shuttle over to Saint desk, your arm around him to about, right? on the Beach," NPrairie Fires," The bouncer asks. You huddle Mary's, as if you have a car and keep him from falling down the You watch the seniors behind and anything else bought for together with the pack of your he's saving you the trouble of stairs. You think you see him the bar laughing and drinking, them. Juniors tend to go out new-found friends and whisper, using it. It is 9:39 p.m. You wait drool. while what looks like hundreds often, frequenting the bars that with an occasional glance at the in the McCandless lobby for his You leave him at the front of arms are waving cups at the had confiscated their fake J.D.'s bouncer. arrival, watching the swarm of door of the McCandless, and two Nbartenders." You can't or denied them entrance, such uls there a problem?u The young men in khaki pants, blue gesture out at the shuttle. walt to live off campus. You as Coach's and Senior Bar. You bartender calls to the bouncer. blazers, white button-downs, uSee you," you say. can't wait to be a senior. don't even try to get in those "They're trying to decide if and red ties stream out of the ul hadda reallyterrifffic time, Four years later you are a places. they're 2l,u the bouncer says. shuttle. Sarah," he slurs. Your name is senior. You've lived ofT campus 
And seniors? They spend the You turn red and mumble By the time they migrate into Katie. for two years, dated a few nice fall semester enjoying the bars something about forgetting your the dorm lobby, you are almost Weeks later, when you spot Domers and a lot of jerks, and and their new senior status, IDs in the car. You exit, and positive you will not recognize The Date From Hell in are desperately trying to con­and their final semester at­swear you will never go back him. You are also not sure if Bridget's, you know it is time vince prospective employer that tempting to locate bars not in­there, but you'll probably try it you should call him James or for a quick exit. His face has it is in their best Interest to hire fested with juniors. That brings again tomorrow. You decide to Jim. It said James in the dog­that same pasty white look. an English major. them back to Bridget's, only this try Plan B-" Bridget's." It is book. You and the rest of the pack ul have a broad-based educa­time it's for the sake of only 9:30, and "the cop" who All of the clean-cut young squeeze your way outside. The tion," you tell them. Two weeks memories; they haven't been cards at the door of Bridget's uDomers" carry flowers seven of you pile into a waiting later you get the rejection letter there in two years. does not arrive until 10 p.m. wrapped in matching Irish cab, sitting on one another's in the mail. 

College was sometimes Two hours later, Bridget's is Gardens tissue paper. "A rose! laps, and when the cabbie asks ul knew I should have been a difficult, but now, as a second­so crowded you cannot walk How pretty," you say. if you are the Martin party you business major," you groan. "I semester senior, you look back without stepping on someone's You check in his ID with the tell him uyes" before anyone wish I were a freshman." 


1"""""---------------------------------~-----------------­
Breakdown of Honorary degree recipients for 40 commencements 
8 cabinet members 
98 priests including 
23 cardinals & 27 bishops cardinal Giovanni Montini later becamer Pope Paul VI 
Do somethinggood.
Feelsomethiiigreal. 
From now on in America, any delinition ol asuccesslullile must include serving otners. To lind out now you can nelp in your community, calli (800) 677-5515. 
-::=:::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!T~~~~~~~~~~==~--------------------------------~--------------------­
• ---­The Observer accepts class~ieds every busin888 day from 10 am. to 3:30p.m. at th~ Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's offioo. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day class~leds Is 3p.m. All class~iedsClassifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 
WANTED: Need 1 or 2 (prefer 2)  Furnished Summer Apt  Thank you St. Jude  Greg, AAACKI What will I do  Hi, WOLFI  
- NOTICES Resumes....Professional quality  people to occupy a Turtle Creek Apt. for summer. More affordable than a townhouse. Call Jim or John X1177.  2 Bed. Call 273-1747 TICKETS  J.P. Need 2 graduation tickets.  without you next year? I won't have anyone to "ooph" with! You better visit me over the summerl I'll miss  Only one more semester till I lose you to the California sunshine-I'll have to make the most of itl You better come to visit me more in CP  
272-5667. (Tom Williams)  Call Brian at 288-0597.  you lots and I wish you the  this summer than you did at SMC  
FOR RENT  Help! Grandparents need two 2 grad. tix. Call Jon x1847  best always! Love (WUV), me  this year! Have a great summer­Don't work too hard I Keep in touch  
$$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg.  NEED NEED NEED NEED NEED  -I'll miss youI  
hours 1 0-5:30 everyday  GRAD. WEEKEND  '"HELP ME OUT!I "'  I need 2 graduation tickets. Please  000 The Copy Shop 000  Em  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  I Need A Ticket For Graduation. It's  help. Call Brian at 288-9147.  LaFortune Student Center  
comer of ND Ave. & Howard  219-291-7153.  A Matter of Life and Death ....  OPEN ALL SUMMER!II!III  congradulation you  
Willing To Pay Big, Big BucksI  To Erin O'Neill(son):  FLO, BRAD(chip), MAX, L.PETER:  
BUDWEISER, COORS, PABST  An attractive studio in lovely old  Please Call Me If You Have An  Congratulations, cutie! Well, it's  JOE ZADROZNY will be 22 on  Our near and dear departing  
SHOULD THIS BE CENSORED?  mansion near N.D. $300 now  Extra!  almost time for that "g-word." I've  July 6, 1991, so wish him a  seniors/lawyer-thanks 4  
renting for summer &fall 91 call  EMILY 284-5073  enjoyed the last 3 months  Happy Birthday before you leave for  everything, especially for not being  
LOST/FOUND  2879624  immensely. Thanks for all the good times. I won't let this get too mushy,  the summer! Happy Early Birthday Joel  strangers this spring. Best of luck in "the real world," occupationally and  
Lost at Commons: Denim jacket  MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our N.D. alumnae family for the most  PERSONALS  so I'll end it. I'll see you in the summer, right? Well, this isn't the  Love, DAD  otherwise. (Odds are that three out of the four of you will be married by  
with car keys and driver's liscences  attractive, well-maintained  greatest personal, but at least it's a  the time I graduate.) Love, the  
of Lisa Parker and Laura Parks i(l  apartments on Chicago's North  HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS  personal.  KRISTY FRITZ  young one (mony)  
pocket. If found, please call 2806.  side I Hardwd floors, great closet  SUMMER? Jet there with  Love,  (FRATES that is I)  
space, lndry facils., conveniently  AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the  Pete  
located to public transp and  Midwest, $160 from the East Coast.  LET ME KNOW WHEN YOU ARE  Gwen,  
LOST: Royal blue BACK PACK  shopping. Call (312)561-8224.  (As reported in NY Times and Let's  FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY  READYI  CONGRATULATIONSI!! Best of  
containing library books and a pair  We'd Jove to help you outl  Go!) AIRHJTCH (r) 212-864-2000  CALLING VANESSA 272-9305.  (to build your house that is!)  Luck in all that awaits youI What do  
of purple glasses (I think)  you do with an econ degree  
Please call Alison at 2806. HELPI  LARGE HOUSE, 2 BATHS, 415  JUNIORS & SENIORS...  SHIP GREYHOUND, PREPAID OR  ALL THE BEST AND KNOW THAT  anyway? Guess we'll find out, huh?  
Finals are coming. Thanx  BDRMS. $700.282-1014.  If you have typing skills, P.C.  COLLECT. BOXES PLUS  lAM  Keep in touch I  
experience & if you are seeking a  LOCATIONS ON CAMPUS.  ALWAYS A PHONE CALL AWAY  Emily  
Bring my CALCULATOR back to  3 Bedroom House  permanent or temporary office  287-6041  (please no collect call)  
the Reserve Book Room. EARL  Close To Campus  position in Chicago, call Angela Ede  Jacquie, Veronica, and Atka­ 
$555 Mo. + Dep.  at Interviewing Consultants, Inc.,  ATTENTION SENIORS  FriiZy  Thanks for a great three years. I'm  
LOST: ONE LITTLE GIRL'S SNOW  232-3616  312·977-4611.  going to miss you guys. Good luck.  
COAT. PINK LONDON FOG  I'll buy your extra graduation  Cheers, Michelle  
BRAND, LINED WITH BLUE  Quaint furnished apts.  --lOST­ announcements  To The Amster,  
FLOWERS. FITS A 2-YEAR-OLD  near N.D. for summer-1bedrm  HELPI llost my wallet  Thanks for a wonderful  Joe Pat- 
TODDLER. CAN ARRANGE FOR  $260; summer & fall-effeciency  at the Commons on Friday  If you have a few to spare,  semester. Your humor and wit never  Thanks for a great semester. Have  
LOCAL PICK UP.  $225; fall-2 bedrm $360; deposit,  Night. It's a tan color and has a lot  call MattX1650  failed to brighten each day.  a good summer.  
E. MANLEY  references 1-800-582-9320  of important stuff in there! If found,  Mickle Pickle  
301 W. ARCH STREET  please call Maria at 284-5073 and  That's the news & we are ouna here  
FLEETWOOD, PA 19522  FREEDOM!  no questions will be asked.  NOVENA TO ST. JUDE  Doug aka "Harder Please" Just  
1-215-944-7845  Rent the best furnished houses,  YES!  remember 'The Places You'll Go"  
prime locations, sec. systems, sand  JAY MAY, THE A.A. FROM HELUI  0 HOLY ST. JUDE, APOSTLE AND  and I'll be there waiting. Love Ann  
LOST: A walkman with dock,  V-ball, wash/dry. Call Greg 233­ We'll miss everything you've done  THE '91 ChEgs  MARTYR, GREAT IN VIRTUE AND  
alarm, radio station presets,  9947.  for us, especially the way you've  RICH IN MIRACLES, NEAR  Congratulations and Good Luck to  
and King Crimson cassette. Call  expanded our vocabulary:  'Nuffsaid  KINSMAN OF JESUS CHRIST,  all Big 0 alumni. May you always  
MikeS. x3309.  ATTENTION  "Wo dicll"  FAITHFUL INTERCESSOR OF ALL  smell doughnuts and hang out with  
SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS  "That's so POSI"  WHO INVOKE YOUR AID IN TIME  chickens.  
REWARD-for info on the N.D.  2 bdr. aprt. Ten minutes to  "H.C.IJ" (that stands for "Holy Cow,"  JOE,  OF NEED, TO YOU I HAVE  
canvas chair taken from The Country Harvester on Wed.  campus, dose to downtown. $350 monthly rent indudes  right?) "Dude, I'm gonna chowII"  HAPPY BIRTHDAYI  RECOURSE AND FROM THE DEPTH OF MY HEART I HUMBLY  '79 .Jaguar H.JS  
518.  water & elec. Deposit required.  "Skroatll" (If you know it's  BEG TO WHOM GOD HAS GIVEN  Red/black Interior  
239-6714 or 289-0856. WANTED  Call234-0119 after 6pm. Cooperative household looking for new roommate(s). We  misspelled, you also know why it's SO) Good luckll Your "Skroats" in lOAIll  from your Bahama buddy. All the best. FriiZ V.  SUCH GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY ASSISTANCE. PLEASE HELP ME IN MY PRESENT AND URGENT PETITION. IN RETURN I  56K Ruto, RIC, Radio/Tape, &ood Condition, SI 0,500  
Siner/ Family Companion needed for the summer. Granger  offer a private room and sev­eral common areas, wasn~ng machine, dryer, VCR, garden,etc.  Ally-the one who sealed my fate at The Big 0 from the moment I met  KOLAR, SCHMED, AUG AND MELVIN,  PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME KNOWN AND TO CAUSE YOU TO BE INVOKED. SAY:  2:59-6072 days, 684-2994 euu  
area, three young  20 minute walk from campus, near  you. Thanks for showing me the  3 OUR FATHER'S  
children, Jive-in or out, call277-8380 lor more information.  bus route. Inexpensive. Openings for summer and/or fall. Call 232­3330.  ropes,Jistening to my whining. (Who else would put up with my oh-so scandalous ways????) Best of luck in Dallas, and fire up for July when I  I can't believe you guys actually made itl Hell I'm surprised I'm gonna make it after you guys corrupted me freshman year. Just  3 HAIL MARY'S, AND 3GLORIA'S. ST. JUDE PRAY FOR US AND ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AID. AMEN.  NOTICE Do not fill out another job application or  
Need Roomate  STUDIO APARTMENTS  become you??? Love and wet  remember if you need a place to  submit another resume  
Summer; Year $200.00Mo. Call Lena  1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS $250-285 CALL 2888595  kisses (only to guys in kitchens) Many  crash during football season, just give me a call. Kolar, see you at the lake and good luck at Jaw school,  ST. JUDE THIS NOVENA HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN TO FAIL I PROMISE TO BE FAITHFUL FOR  for employment until you call this number  
#3517  Schmed, "I got a job I, Ha,  9 CONSECUTIVE DAYS.  first. 1-:512-202-4546  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fisheries.  3 to 4 bedroom furnished home for rent. walking distance to campus. $550.00 a month. 9 to 12 month  To Guy "McDago" DiDinato: Congratulations! Like there was ever a doubt you could graduate.  Ha,"anyway, Good Luck in OC, and make sure you get that fly half job. Dr. Orsinelli, If I'm ever in need of  "'"CONGRADULATIONSI"'" TO  EHt. I 03 Results guaranteed I  
Earn $5,000+/month. Free  lease available. 234-7650  Good luck at Chapel Hill, you  medical help, I hope its you and not  '""TRACET JENNINGS'""  Fost ond easy to get  
transportation I Room & BoardI Over  tarheel, you. I've enjoyed bugging  Load. Melvin, I don't know what the  the job you really 
8,000 openings. No experience necessary. MALE or FEMALE. For  Summer Sublet 1 BDRM APT. FURN.  you over the past 3 years. I'd like to do a coupla gamblin' jokes for ya...  hell you're doing, but good luck and thanks for all the times you lent me  IT'S BEEN A PLEASURE. do come to visit and keep in touch.  wantll  
employment program call Student  Historical Building  But first, a little foggy mountain  your car.  FriiZy Baby  
Employment Services at1-206-298­ Close to ND. Safe.  breakdown. Always remember  
3691 ext. 80.  $ 250mo.  chewing on glass, the cruel shoes,  Love,  
Call288-1467 Tracey or Joe  tricking smc chicks, etc. Oh, also,  Your Favorite EX-Frosh.  KEN BOEHM -Top Salesman at  
KUWAIT, SAUDI WORKERS  when you're driving, always bring a  The Country Harvester AKA  
NEEDED $35.00 & up per hour. Tax Free. Both skilled & unskilled. For  Summer Sublet 1 BDRM. APT. FURN.  litter bag. If it gets filled up, you can just throw it out the window.  p.s. Have you ever slept with a  Assistant Manager: You are one great guy -and a very brave one at  ~~  
info. Call615-779-5505 Ext. K- Historical Building  Good luck,  Mexican?  that! (Just what really is in those  
1722. $350.00/DAY PROCESSING  Close to N.D. Safe. $250 mo. Call288-1467 Tracey or Joe  linle peter To JimO, Rob, Ron, Mike, Guy, J.C.,  '""ANGELA MENDOZA'""  V.S.C. pkgs?) Thanks for your time, laughs (your receipts always make me  ~0~~!!~ ~§..l  
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242  FOR SALE  Murph, Kelley, John, and Gauilius, the seniors of 8D: Congratulations! Be sure to come  you have finally made itl please come back and party with  chuckle -whoa -and a new friendship! Have a great life. All right then ­ DO YOURSELF A FUVOR.."_ ..... _.. ''""'­·------­ 
EXTENSION P-238214  SALE' SALE'SALE'SALE'  back next year when you're making money and can buy beer for our  us.  Rose  DINNER FOR2  
One very comfortable double bed­ taligaters.  POOCHIEI POOCHJEI  FOR $8,99 Pick any two Gounnet  
SMALL EUROPEAN EXPORTER  Jess than a year old  Good luck,  POOCHIEI  MAURA CLAIRE WEILER· Author  Sandwiches, two garden Salads,  
NEEDS SUMMER MARKETING  Call Anne 288-0597  the rest of the section  & Playwrite (your name belongs on  plus your choice ol French  
ASSISTANT. 20-24 HAS. PER  SALE'SALE'SALE'SALE  we'll miss ya.  the Top 10 sellers list): I wish you a  Fries or Onion Rings and 2  
WEEK. MUST HAVE EXCELLENT  to bones meissner:  Bahama Boy  lifetime of adventures, a man­ Mlnl-Sundaes  
WRITING SKILLS. SEND ONE PAGE RESUME AND BRIEF  89 GEO Spectrum Great Gas Mileage- congratulations. We'll miss your woo, we think. hope you come back  Happy Graduation  whoa • (Thanks, Ken I) and the best in all you do. I consider you my first  explratlon date 5/19""-­----­ 
EDITORIAL SAMPLE TO: CHARIOT EURO, INC.  45/city 50/highway Still has factory warranty  and visit next year. we're sure you will, sexy mama.  and Happy Summer to All  ND friends and a great one at !hall Take good care of yourself (watch  Buy any size sundae andSUNDAE receive a second one of the  
27967 MOOSE TRAIL  excellent buy, call Pat  Love,  Love Amy  the sugar) and I'll miss youI  99~ same atze for 99c  
ELKHART, IN 46514  288-5678  the 8D dudes & their boos  Copy Center  Love ya, Rose  explratlon date 5/19  

page 21

Friday, May 17, 1991 SCOREBOARD ­
-~--­
------~ 

MCC BASEBALL BOXES .
Midwestern Collegiate Confere 

NOTRE DAME (8) DAYTON (2) ab r h bl ab r h bl Layson 2b 3 1 1 0 Harprlng 3b 5 0 , 0
All-Conference Baseball tea , ,
Mae3b 3 0 0 Roos 1b 5 2 0
, , ,

Counsell as 4 Bostlcco dh 4 0 3 0 Jacobs dh 3 2 3 , Harlamer1 ot 2 0 , ,
,

Binklewicz 1 b 4 1 2 Tully lb 4 0 0 ·O
, , ,

Cossc 4 ROih ss 4 0 , 0 Smhh rl 3 0 0 0 Ahieri ~ 4 0 0 0
, , , ,
Haas ph 0 Ernst 2b 4 0 0
,

Rooneypr 0 1 0 0 Waddle c , 0 Maisano dh 0 0 0 0 
0 Notre Dame First & SecondTeam Players 
Fr. Greg Layson 2B 1st 


~a;i~i~
-n. /t.liluJ 
Ri.stor&Dt.• 
A touch of Littlt Italy. 1M p1ocr whn-t Mama coolc..s iust for you .. ~lidow food prtpartd in tht Southtm Italian manntr. Ftaturing FttttKcint Al":do, Manicotti, and Vtol Parmagiana. For ftstrve occa.SJons chtck out Parisi's Italian Stylt dinntrs, mc/u~s ~rything but tht gondala. 
NEW SUNDAY HOURS: 4-9 P.M. 
Martinez pr Leahy dh Bautch d TOTALS  0 3 3 31  0 1 0 8  0 2 0 11  0 2 1 8  TOTALS  36  2  10  1  
Dayton Notre Dame  001 100  000 001  100· 2 06x· 8  10 11  0,  
DP-Notre Dame 1, Dayton 2. LOB-Notre Dame 4, Dayton 9. 2B-Layson, Counsell, Blnklewlcz, Cos&. CS-Harlamert. HR--Jacobs (19), Leahy (1).  
NDtre Dame Slnnes Walanla (W, 1 1·5)  p 6 3  H 6 4  A 1,  ER 0,  BB 2 0  so 5 3  
Dayton Millar (L. 3·8) Donnelly  p 72fJ 1/3  H 9 2  A 6 2  ER 6 2  BB 5 0  so 5 0  
NOTRE DAME (9) Layson 2b Mae 3b Counsell ss Jacobs dh Blnklewlcz 1 b Maisano dh Bautch d Smhh rl Cossc TOTALS  ab 3 3 3 5 4 4 4 3 3 32  r 2,, 0 0 2 0 1 2 9  h 0 0 2, 2 2 0, 2 10  bl 0, 2,, 2 0,, 9  DETROIT (7) ab srnth 4 Dube rl 3 Raymond H 4 Heard d 4 Sullivan tb 5 Stefanski c 5 Zauner dh 5 T avorrnna as 3 Crane 2b 4 TOTALS 37  r,, 0 0 0 0 2 2, 7  h 3,, 2, 0 2 0, 12  bl 3,,, 0 0 0 0 1 7  
Detroit Notre Dame  200 110  320 004  000·7 21X· 9  12 10  2,  
DP-Notre Dame 1, Detroh 2. LOB-NOire Dame 11, Dayton 11. 2B-Smlth (2), Coss (2), Dube, Zauner. SB-Layson. CS-Oube. HR-Malsano (5).  
Notre Dame Price Leahy Michalak (W, 9-1)  p 3 1/3 5213  H 5 2 5  A 2 3 2  ER 2 3 0  BB, 3 3  so, 0 6  
Detroh Novetsky Nester {L, 3·3)  p 5 3  H 6 4  A 5 4  ER 5 4  BB 9 2  so 2 0  
MCC SOFTBALL BOXES  

You orv thv Bvst!!!! Morgiv ond Bob Crisp 

Congratu{ations to 
rrhe Cfass of 1991 for your commitment to service and socia{ action May it continue to enricfi your {ives and, tfirougfi you, your community 
witli appreciation '11ie Staff of'11ie Center for Socia{ Concerns 


NOire Dame ab r h rbl Alvarez 3 0 0 0 Kmak 3 0 , 1 Miller 3 0 , 0 Crossen 3 0 0 0 Fay 3 0 1 0 Connoyer 3 0 0 0 Boulac 3 0 0 0 McMurphy 2 0 , 0 Cook 2 0 0 0 Allord 0 0 0 0
,

Sommerlad 0 0 0
,

Quinn 0 0.0 Linn 0 0 0 0 Bueter 0 , 0 0 Harter 0 0 0 0 
Detrioh ab r h rbl Pitts 3 0 0
, 

Theisen 3 2 2 0 Harlukowlcz 3 , 0 0 Hayes 2 0 , , 
Tad<ett 3 0 2 2 Peichate 3 0 0 0 Wasserman 3 0 0 0 loner 3 0 1 0 Kitchenmaster 2 0 0 0 Emery 0 0 0 0 
rhe NOTRE DAME 
000 010 0 ·1 44 

DETROIT 
102 000 -37 3 

E· Wasserman, Tacke!, Forter: Alvarez, McMurray LOB Detroh, 5: Notre Dame 5. 2B Forter. SB Pins (2) 
SH Hayes; Cook 
NOTRE DAME p H A ER Alford 2 5 3 2 0 BB so 
1

Linn 
4 2 0 0 0 
1

DETROIT Emery 7 4 , 0 
0 

WP-Emery (UDT) LP· AHord (NO) 
LOYOLA ab r h rbl Dept a 4 0 0 0 Sullivan 3 0 0 0 Zuhlke 3 0 0 0 Webb 3 0 0 0
,

Sxhmldt 3 1 0 Johnson 3 0 1 0 Esser 3 0 0 1 Brown 3 0 1 0 Kostuch 3 0 0 0 
28 1 
3 

NOTRE DAME ab r 
h 

Alvarez 
4 0 0 1 Kmak 4 0 2 0Miller 
4 0 0 0 Crossen 
4 0 0 0 Connoyer 
2 0 0 0 

McMuuray , 0
3 0 Boulac 
3 0 1 1 Fay 
2 1 0 0 Cook 
1 0 0 0 Linn 
0 0 0 0 Rueter 
0 0 0 0 Vernonia 
, 1
1 
0

Quinn 
0 0 0 0 Folsom 
1 0 ...
1 0 

TITALS 
29 2 6 2 

NOTRE DAME 
000 010 
01 ·260

LOYOLA 
010 000 
00 ·13, 

1-,-----···-----·-·----~--•....•••. ----------------------.......__ . . -~ -. .. .. ... --..... -.. -......-----.. -~ --­
-----I 
."' ................. ­

MCCSOFTBALLBOXES
-
Midwestern Collegiate Confer~\ 
NOlREDAME ab r h rbl DAYTON av r h rbl Game 13 MCC Softball Championship 
All-Conference Softball tea0
0 
Alvarez 4 1 1 1 Pabst 3 0 1 0 Kmak 4 1 2 1 Schwartkloopf 2 0 0 0 NOTRE DAME (2) DElROIT(O) Miller 3 1 2 1 Davis 3 0 0 0 ab r h bl ab h bl
Crossen 3 Alvarez 3 1 1
1 1 0 Fischer 2 0 0 0 0 Pitts 3 0
Not.. Dame A•st & Second Team Playe" 
Connoyer 3 0 1 0 Lyman 3 0 1 0 Kmak 3 0 0 0 Theisen 3 0 0 0 0 0 McMurray 2 0 0 0 Balardi 3 0 1 0 Miller 3 1 2 1 Harlukowicz 3 0 
1 0
Boulac 3 1 2 0 Burke 2 0 0 0 Fay 3 0 2 1 Hayes 3 0 Quinn 3 0 0 0 Bevilacqua 1 0 0 0 Crossen 3 0 0 0 Tackett 3 0 1 0 Fay 3 0 1 0 Lange 2 0 0 0 Connoyer 3 0 2 0 Pelchat 2 0 0 0 
1 0
Cook 0 0 0 0 Nowark 0 0 0 0 Boulac 2 0 0 0 Wasserman 2 0 
0 0 Sr. Megan Fay OF 
Folsom 0 0 0 0 Weichold o 0 0 0 Quinn 2 0 1 0 Porter 2 0 0 0Vemtetti 1 0 1 2 Vernetti 2 0 0 0 Knchnmster 2 0 
0 0
Cook 0 0 0 Rueter 0 0 0 0 Ruetter 0 0 0 0 Derocher 0 0 0 0 0
Sommerlad 0 0 0 0 0 Hmerschldt 2 0 
0 

Pinter 0 0 0 0 TOTALS 31 8 11 8 TOTALS 23 0 3 0 
TOTALS 23 5 11 5 21 0 3 0 NO 002 000 0-2 8 0 Detroit 000 000 0-0 3 0 
NOTRE DAME 210 020 DP-Notre Dame 1, DetroU 1.
-511 0 
DAYTON LOB-Notre Dame 5, DetroU 3.
000 000 0 -Q3 7 
2B--Miller. SB-Aivarez. 
E-LYMAN (3), DAVIS, NOWARK, LANGE (2) LOB-NO, 7: DAYTON 3. Notre Dame IP H A ER BB so 2B MILLER; BAIAADI Mlller(W) 7 3 0 0 0 1 SH-SCHWARTKOPF, BURKE 
Detroit p 
H A ER BB so NOlREDAME p Hammerschmidt 6
H A ER BB so 
Miller 7 
3 0 0 2 4 DAYTON Nowark 4 
7 3 2 0 1 Welchold 7 4 2 1 1 0 
-WP-Miller 

Announces AGreat New Travel Program 
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because
Nowstudents can get the Card 
there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is
and get 3roundtrips on Continental 
7days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night. In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all
Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student 
privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa­There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable a lot of money And that's by getting the American Express® Card. discounts from leading retailers. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank Continental Airlines. 
address and account number on hand). What's more, 
Just look at the map and pick the place youtllike with our special student offer, it's easier to get the to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you Card now wh!le you're still in school than it may can use a certificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, ever be again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 
CALL 1-800-942-AMEX •
CONTINENTAL

Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon. 

Complttt ••rms and condlrlons olrhis rranl of•r will arriv< wirh your c•rU6cares. Conrinenral Airlines alone is responsibt. for fulfillmonr of rhis of•r. American Express assuln<S no liabillry for Conrinenral Airlines' porformanc•. ~ 1991 American Express Tra~l Rolar•d S.rvic•s Compan); Inc. 

Congratulations, you•ve worked hard. Like your family, we at Blue & Gold Illustrated are proud of you. To show that we are, we•re giving graduates three FREE Issues of Blue & Gold lllustrated. 
Go on...glve yourself a treat, you•ve earned lt. All you fiave to do Is sign and mall back the form below. 
If you like It, subscribe! Where ever yourfuture may be, you•n never lose touch with Notre Dame Fighting Irish football with a subscription to Blue & Gold Illustrated. 
IW 
MAIL TO: Blue &Gold Illustrated P.O. Box 1007 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
That's one year's worth, plus my three free issues. 
--------------------------------------------------------J 
,_,._ 'lilill·-:...... ......................···-:.......·;....---..... liiMi -~:. 
I have enclosed $29.95 to t Blue & Gold Illustrated 
P.O. Box 1007 I Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Donor Only D Donor & New Subscription t 
Donor & Renewal D Bill me 
Visa D Mastercard D Check enclosed for $29.95 
Card# Exp. date 
I Name l I Address 
I

City/State/ZIP 
I
I

Send gift subscription to: 
I

Name 
I I

Address 
I City/State/ZIP I 
~......·--.:·~.·-~ -· -.......... --..... I 
.___ .. ········_·····_··-···-···_··••··-~a;;ij~,-anJ enclose 
•vv.av...•uF llill·.· ...... -.....•·--..•• .• n:7J~~a=~~~~:r:lon to 
I've done it! Send me my three free issues ofBGI! 
Graduate's Name 
Address 

City/State/ZIP 
I've already decided! Send me 23 issues for $29.95. 



I. ..­
The Observer/Sean Farnan Tom Delaney putts at the Senior Golf Tournament which was held yesterday at Notre Dame. 

Baseball 
continued from page 32 
Tuesday morning, Murphy used five pitchers who had put in a total of 40 innings in an 18-14 win over Chicago. 
After compiling a 46-12 record against one of the strongest schedules in the na­tion, Murphy believes the Irish have proven they're one of the best teams in the nation, even if others don't recognize it. 
"We've already proven we be­long in the NCAA," said Murphy. "Evansville doesn't have a chance to make the tournament-neither does Detroit-unless they beat us. It's kind of a silly situation for us to be in." 
After last year's fiasco in 
monograms in their careers, but shortstop Mike Coss and re­lief pitcher Tony Livorsi have won monograms three times prior to this year. Coss has played in more games than anyone in Irish baseball history, am achievement that reflects his dedication. 
"Mike's done everything we've asked of him," said Murphy. "He's one tough son­of-a-gun. If I was going to war tomorrow, I'd want to take him with me. At the same time, if I was going out to have a good time, I'd want to take him with me." 
Livorsi, the only fifth-year senior on the roster, is third on the Notre Dame career appear­ances list with 59, but has seen action only sparingly this sea­son. 
"About two-thirds of the girls on campus throw harder than Tony, but he is a flat-out win­ner," said Murphy. "Every team needs a gut like him." 
Catcher Matt Krall, despite seeing limited playing time throughout his career, gained the respect of Murphy this year. 
"He earned my respect for the way be handled his role," said Murphy. "He was disappointed that he didn't get the playing time be wanted. But he still takes care of business when he's in there, and that's all because of his attitude." 
With players as team-ori­ented as this year's seniors, it's no wonder that the Irish will accept nothing less than their goal of a 1991 NCAA tourna­ment bid. 
Friday, May 17, 1991 
Notre Dame takes a beating in Sl parody 
NEW YORK (AP) -Don King Sportsman of the Year? Buddy Ryan in a nunnery? The Iditarod run through the streets of New York? 
You bet. It's right there on the pages ofSI. 
Sports Illstated, that is. 
Andrews and McMeel, which specializes in publishing the humorous and offbeat, has come up with a wickedly funny parody of the nation's most popular sports magazine. From the cover shot of Jose Canseco asking, "How's My Driving?" to the review of CBS's Pigskin Prognosticator (Pig-Prog for short) that foretells the outcome of football games minutes into the first quarter, Sports Illstated pulls no punches. 
Everyone is a subject for satire, an object of ill-affection. 
The NCAA gets it in a Scorecard editorial detailing its new fundraising policy of auc­tioning off nicknames to the highest bidder. The Fordham Fighting Irish, for example. And the University of Alaska Seminoles. 
"We take great pride in our Native American heritage," the magazine quotes an Alaskan booster, disregarding the fact that not one Seminole Indian bas ever set foot in Alaska. 
Notre Dame's haughty profile takes a beating by getting, of all things, a thumbs up. 
"To the Rev. Edward Malloy, president of Notre Dame who, during commencement cere­monies ... awarded senior Greg Davis his diploma, then pushed him from behind down a flight of stairs, adding, 'I'm sorry Greg ... I sure hope I didn't clip you and cost us a national championship." 
Oooh. 

The features range from a revealing story of Buddy Ryan's finding his calling and entering a convent to an hilarious piece on the U.S. Golf Association hooking up with Donald Trump­and renaming its most presti­gious tournament the Trump Open. 
Sports Illustrated itself gets its share of hits. The parody's letters section includes refer­ence to a swimsuit issue featur­ing headless store mannequins dressed in bathing wear. The parody's editors also complain about SI's decision to change its look just as Sports Illstated was being completed. 
"We put as much attention to detail as possible," says Rick Wolff, the editor of the parody, which goes on sale at book­stores this week. "About two or three months ago, we were set and, lo and behold, we open that week's SI and it has changed format. They didn't give us any advance word." 
Wolff, who is a senior editor at another publishing house, MacMillan Inc., has done free­lance work for Sports Illustrated. 
"I have lots of friends at SI, or I did," he says with a chuckle. "We let them know a parody was in the works." 
shunned from the NCAA tour­nament despite winning 46 games and posting the fourth­highest winning percentage among Division I teams, this year's squad, with the 16th best record in college baseball, isn't ready to put up the cleats after the MCC tournament. 
"We've had a lot of adversity this year," said Murphy. "These are a lot of the guys that were 
46-12 last year and didn't get in. I think out players are a little confused in that they say, 'Look what we've done and we might not get in.'" 
Murphy, only the fourth coach 
in Irish baseball history, has 
taken the program to a level of national recognition that in
1989 brought the Irish to their 
~~h~o;r::~~~t~::~~n~9[~~
Program at such a high level for years to come, but it won't all be his doing. 
"It's our attitude more than anything that has made us a top 20 program and we're here to stay," said Murphy. "The program has come so far in the past four years not because of Pat Murphy-it's because of Notre Dame, student athletes, an aggressive schedule, and aggressive recruiting." 
The leadership of a few se­niors has helped out also. Slugger Frank Jacobs, who en­tered the MCC tournament bat­ting .320 with 18 HR 66 RBI, will be one of the top power hit­ters in the 1991 draft. The contribution Jacobs has made in Murphy's tenure will be un­forgettable to Murphy. 
"It's gonna be a sad day when he plays his last game for us," said Murphy. "He's been through a lot of adversity in his life, so this season was nothing new for him. He's done a lot for Notre Dame baseball, but foremost he's an unbelievable person." 
Since 1950, only 16 Notre Dame players have earned 
which Notre Dame was r---~~~~~~~~~~~ro~~nr~rn1r.~nr~r--, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~()Q 
0 
:c 
0 
:c 
0 
:c 
0 
:c 
0 

:c !Foffow Your 0 =0 

= 
'Dreams 0 
=
0 

:Mom, ']Jfll£ Jejj; = 
.fC ufatio 0 
Love anu ongrat ns, 13uster & 'Ciiip' = 
HoHoHoHoH0 H0 H0 H0 H0 H0 H0 H0 H0 H0 


L---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~~:~:~~~~ric•n 
Co kta"l L

Au~he~ti:~"::chuan. 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 
l!t1PPtf 

~RttfOtMTI0/1 
*Happy Graduation, Trey! 
*Welcome back to the Mardis Gras City. Love, Mom Dad, Noel and Renee 

e're g{atf!MC.9t'Iis over-1Jidi. (jood {uc~ 
afieacf. 
Love, Po'P, :Mom, 1Jutcli, :MiK!,, 1{_ichie 
.-:..•.•.•.•.•.• 
~~ 
THE:cOMMtitli .. :oF: PfiSOUERiLLA: : 
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · TJ. · ·· · ·· · ·· · · · ·· · · ·· 
:W~~"r ~~]Q'~~$:flr.~ :~~~I;J;JRflr~~: TH~ 
: QJtfiQ(JflT:IQ": Of: ~1"$ :S:~t~UOR$:: 
:jcide~ ~~ ~~L~~ : 
· ROBERTA BRYER" 

: BRoot<E:cAMPaeLl: 
·CAROLYN CANNELLA · 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
:~~~~!~~~ DELORENio 
: I?HU:ON~:D:UNO nu: OINt:t : · t>EANNA OOBROWL:.SKI : l;.E;S!-I~:t;~A:RP~: 
. PANDORA FECKO . . JULIE"Ft.ANAGAN" . : CARrtA f.LETCHER: ·CHERYL FREUND· · 

: GRETCHEN GERDlNG: · DIANE GOFF· · · · · : ti14NC:V:G:RJ;t;:~E; : : · MERFUT HAMil. TON. · HEIDI"HANSAN · · 
::~i~~~~Au~sy~~ 
: tANiEAA JENKINS . TRACEY JENNINGS· : ~1$4 ~C:U·f.NSO~ : : 

:sA~A L-~~&$cKE~: : ~~ 
·KRISTEN MANCUSO· 
:s~fl~t:l ~91;JGJiAN: . 
·TRACY NEMECK· · · 

I;
"ZAfD~ "PERICAS . . . 
:oJ\NicA:Pei"RosiiiU:S: 
·, ·suiANNE·P1~LA · · · · 

I 
:J<ArHRY.N:PJRRO:rtA : ·OLIVIA RAZO· · ~ :JlJ(.J~ RY4N : : : : § ·MAR¥ SANDRO . . 
I 
:RP:eY~ ~~~~9~~ : 

-CHIRSTINE SU. . . § ·.. MM.AAL~E~N~E~T~TER.TR.AYXL_.0_. R.. ~~ 
·KRISTEN TORTORElLA· :HAo:TRAtil : : : ~ ·ANITA·VARKEY· · · · · · ~ 
:~frf::Rr~~~l~~E~~~ ~eri ~ 
"JUliE WHALEN . . . I :MICHELLE WIENEKE : ~ ·TRAECV WILSON · · · I 
~·-KA••RE·N-·LAC•E•R•TE._.·._....._:M.·I·C-Ha···L•E•W•O•i•N··IA~·K~·~:~~-·-~:J
.. ... ~ 
,.,. : ~I;L~y !-I;QN:A~p: :E~~z~~~~ :~Y:N~~ : . """"""'\;! 
-

----~---­
Friday, May 17, 1991 The Observer page 25 
-
Seniors honor Lindenfeld 
Last field hockey players extol coach 
As we prepare to say our 
goodbyes and extend our thanks to those who have influenced us at Notre ·Dame, we would like to write a special letter of appreciation to a woman deserving high recognition. We have no doubt that all who know Jill l.indenfeld, either as a physical education instructor, as a colleague, or as a friend, would describe her as an en­thusiastic person who has a positive outlook on life. Not only do we agree, we would like to inform the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community about how Impressive her personality truly is. 
Jill is an excellent athlete and not too long ago she was one of the top field hockey players in the nation. Beginning her sophomore year In college, she played on the United States National Team from 197 4-1980. In her latter years of competition she endured a recurring knee Injury, and in 1980 she decided to try out for the U.S. Olympic team as her last national-level playing expe­rience. She made the team, but as a result of the diplomatic tensions between the U.S. and the Soviet Union (the host of the 1980 summer Olympics), President Carter prevented the U.S. from competing. To compensate for this lost opportunity, the team went on various tours, on which Jill played the best hockey of her caree~ Afterwards, as she promised herself, she retired from field hockey competition. 
She then moved to the Michigan/Indiana area with her husband and worked a few years in education and field hockey officiating. In 1984 she was hired by Notre Dame to coach the women's varsity field hockey program and to be a physical education instructor. For four years she worked hard at developing the best program she could with the talent and support she was given. In 1988, however, the directors of the Athletic Department informed her of their decision to terminate the field hockey program. Despite the careless way the department both made the decision and informed Jill, she remained at Notre Dame to continue teaching physical education. 
In 1989, Jill was voted into the U.S. Field Hockey Hall of Fame. She was recognized for a great ability she proved for years. In this time of the Year of Women, we believe it is ap­propriate for us to recognize another great ability of hers, namely, her ability to always look on the bright side of life. A popular image Jill draws on her letters (and displays everywhere in her office) is a simple picture of the sun (triangles of rays pointing outwards from a circle). We believe this image represents her character well; just like the sun, no matter what storms of misfortune may come her way, she never loses her energy or stops shining. 
Thank you Jill for all your support and encouragement throughout our years here at Notre Dame. We hope your bright disposition never changes. And there is one last thing we would like to tell you ... 
No wait, no wait, no wait... We choose you as our Notre Dame Woman of the Year. 
Thank you Jill for everything, 
Patty Ahearne 
Maura Long 
Michele Bolduc 
Mary Beth Petriella 
Amy Bundens 
Susan Shull 
Megan Fay 
Cornell Wrisby 
Kelly Golden 
(All the above were freshmen on the last varsity field hockey team at Notre Dame, Fall of 1987) 

Congratulations to all ObsC2rvC2ritC2s graduating. Thanks for all your hard worlk. Good Lock with all of your fututrC2 ende2avors. 
£0~®@[Jl) ©©©~® 
©©~~@@[[i) ©f!@[[i)~[[i) 00©f2.>W[[i) ®~ []]) []]) @[[i)® ®U®[pfruf;)[[i)~® ®[[i)W@J®f! ®®fl®riu ~fl0UU®U®fl l.FO©f!®UUUOUU® [}{J©®O~®fl ~Q [F)®U®fl W©r2.> [ID[f@@] @@0~@ 
©rrufln®un[[i)@ WW®~®rru ®®fl@riu W©O@Q OO®U@®Lru@ wna®@[[i) [F)®Qfln©~ [}{]®@OW [ID®Q®W [F)Qllffil®®0@UU [F)f;)Q ~Qll®®fk ®©©Uil ~©©f;)[[i)[[i) fM]@W ~nwnau© [M]n©rru®OO® rm®o~ [ID®©fkW fFln©rruO®fl ~®UrJuO®®UU @Q©®ffil[[i)@fl ©®f10uuuu® fP®wOO® [ID®Ufru rn3©0@®rr £lflft)W ~®©~fk©W®fkO r:ID®uun®OO® r:IDM©fm®U®OOn®rr £[[i)[[i)@ ®®O®riu©M®® ®®©lN ®U®00® 

@@W~@J f1®00U@[[i) ~uu[[i)® [M]©©®flUriuW ~@[[i)0©® [M]©@@@ 

~©oaw ~®®®au 

®©©\tl! [IDrrMU©©®© ©r.rufln® ©®@[[i)@w fF>®Urr ~© fk rNJ nau [[i)@Wil®[[i) W®lfOI@JW ©Muuuunuu@riu®rnru ~®ff@~uu lNJ®WO©W® fiD®U~l fF>®U®fl®©uu ©rrurr~®UOuu® £uu@J®fl®©uu rlli®fl~u®rr@J [IDrr®uuuu~uu~rnru®W®fl l.Ff!~U~~ W®0®®0UUU cJJ®rJuO'U ®UM@J®LP)®~@fl ®fl®~D @MlN®W ~®au lfW®n®© riDnao (:g()~©Mrr~® [M]®W: ~©W®~ 
And a special thanks to Shirley Grauel our Office ~•anager (Mom). 

page 26 The Observer Friday, May 17, 1991
-
KEN TYSIAC Associate Sports Editor Emeritus 
Treatment of Digger a disgrace 
I once thought I would--------­support their teams through the losses as well as play basketball for the wins. If this is the case, the people in the Digger Phelps. stands at the Joyce ACC were terribly amiss 
As a youth, I watched when they booed Phelps when he was introduced Irish hoops progress at home games. through the glorious Sadly, my most lasting memory of athletics at years of the late '70s and Notre Dame will be of the lack of respect Digger early 80s, I pictured received. I observed first hand as my childhood myself as the next Kelly idol plummeted from the top of his profession to Tripucka or John Parson. the depths of disgrace, and it really hurt. My body never quite Not all of my memories will be sad. I will never progressed to keep up forget the Irish football team's victory over Miami with the dreams, though, or the National Championship in 1988. and I was forced to settle Frank Jacobs's home runs. for the next best thing. The enthusiasm of coaches Bob Bayliss (men's 
While covering Notre tennis), Pat Murphy (baseball) and Ric Shafer Dame hoops for two years, I witnessed the (hockey). demise of the coach I once idolized. Phelps Fencing (although I don't really understand it, himself would probably admit that these last two the Irish will always do well). Irish basketball teams failed to live up to expec­Track coach Joe Piane's lecture on how we tations. They were disappointing , to say the should run The Observer sports department, least. although he admits that he didn't know much 
Maybe getting out of coaching is the best thing about how we ran our newspaper. for Phelps. But that still is no excuse for the way The Rocket. the administration and the fans treated him in The blood that flew from the ring onto my shirt the days prior to his resignation. in those barbarous Bengal Bouts. 
My father once told me that a good Bookstore Basketball. administrator stands behind his employees. If Tennis star David DiLucia pumping his fist after that is so, Dick Rosenthal failed miserably when winning an important point. he repeatedly refused to say anything positive Still, none of these images will be a vivid as about Phelps over the course of his final season. that of Digger announcing his retirement to the 
It is also generally accepted that good fans delight of unforgiving administrators and fans. 
Tennis 
continued from page 32 

pened last year with our sched­ule and record," DiLucia said after hitting with the South Carolina team on Wednesday in Athens. "We haven't played a competitive match in a about three weeks, so it's been helpful to hit with some the other5~~~~~~~~~~~~'~!~~~~~g~!~!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!~~~~DDDDDDDDDDI
teams down here."  ---------[]1  
The Irish  had  tentatively  CONGRATULATIONS "KJMBO"  []I 
scheduled workouts with South  
Carolina and Harvard through­ 
out the week.  
The heat that plagued South  
Bend in the days before the  
Irish left for Athens  was  a  
blessing in disguise, as the Irish  
practiced outside to prepare for  
the Georgia heat.  It might not  
have an effect on at least one  
Irish player, though.  
"Coach had us work on condi­ 
tioning a lot before we came  
down here, which should be re­ 
ally helpful in this heat," said  
Ron Rosas, a sophomore from  
El Paso, Texas.  "But I'm used  

to this kind of weather just"i~!Q!g!;!Q!g~~gg~fug1~!;lrg!~!;!Qig~fgjg~jglg~jgg~~gig1~~!Q!g!;!QigJ 
D 0 5 0 M E T H I N G G 0 0 D. F E E L 5 0 M E T H I N G R E A L. 
from playing at home, so it= shouldn't effect my game that much." 
As DiLucia would be the first to point out, the depth of the squad is what carried the Irish to the NCAAs. 
At two-singles, sophomore Chuck Coleman, ranked as high as 97th this season, brings a 28-21 record into the NCAAs. After a 4-12 start to begin the spring, Coleman recovered to fmish the season by going 11-3. 
At three singles, sophomore Will Forsyth, a transfer from Trinity College, went 11-1 against regional opponents and ~II team with sophomore Andy Zurcher at two-doubles. 
Sophomore Mark Schmidt, playing at four-singles, re­turned from a bout with mononucleosis to post a 20-8 record in dual matches, with a 12-2 mark in the region. The Atlanta native will pair with se­nior Ryan Wenger at three­doubles. 
Andy Zurcher brings a 22-12 
record into the five-singles po­
sition, while Rosas enters the 
six-singles position riding a 
nine-match winning streak. 
Wenger, the lone senior on 
the eight-man NCAA roster, has 
been nominated for Academic 
All-American and has already 
been accepted into the Ohio 
State Medical School. 
Convenient Student Living 
We're just minutes from Notre Dame. University Park Mall. the toll road and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community with spacious, well-kept grounds has a lot of appeal to the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­gency maintenance service ... and we have an activities program that includes free aerobics classes, social fvnctions, team sports and much, much more. 
If you're looking for the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we'll show you comfortable, affordable apartment living! 
Efficiencies from $270  -featuring ­ 
1-Bedrooms from $285  • P:anned ll.ct.vities Program  
2-Bedrooms from $345  • Beauliful Glubhouse & Pool  
• Air Conditioning  + Cable T\1 Available  
272-1880  • D1sposal • Laundry Rooms • Basketball Court  
• Picnic Tables.!. Gri:ls  
Oflice Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9-7,  • Volleyball Court • Gazebo  
Sat. 10-4 and Sun. 12-4  • 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance Service  

sk about the Hickory Village Summer Breeze . . 
I 
easy and economical way to Y.eep your apartment :hrough the summer and still go home. 
+llCKORlJ ~ lJlLLA~E 
Conveniently located on Hickory Road, just north of Edison Road 

$15 

NO APPLICATION FEE! 15 
Save $15 when you apply for an apartment at Hickory Village. Just present this coupon to the leasing agent and the $15 application fee will be waived. 
15 ExplrttS 911191 $15 

HAPPY GRADUATION TO JKITJOO JOOJEWJE~ et. al. 
in P.E. 

Love, your liHie brother Jon 
~-V...tlt!~·c,z -U. 'hlcl,Z, Jt7z!lia.m f h}cf,[J }3.;_.:/ulo,..-o/ .1l/i.:l Jut-!.1 ])odt't-
Graduation Wk'end Liturgy Schedule 
~­

(6MPUS Campus Ministryt\111NISTRY Notre Dame 
UniYeiSI!y ol Nolle Dome Nolle Dome, IN 46556 

Lbcry~110·230·6~31 larJn Hall21i•231·~242 May 16 -19, 1991 
Friday. May 17. 1991; Main Church Liturgical Choir Concert 9:00pm 
Saturday. May 18. 1991: Main Church: Vigil Mass 5:00pm Joyce ACC: Baccalaureate Mass 5:00pm 
Sunday. May 19. 1991; Sacred Heart Parish Crypt: Sunday Masses: 6:00, 7:00 and 8:00am 
9:30am ll:OOam 

No Masses will be held in the Main Church on Sunday morning, May 19, because of graduation events. The Church will reopen for prayer and visitation starting Sunday at 12 noon. 
On Graduation Weekend, parking for all masses will take place in tile parking lots on the outskirts of the campus. 
Friday, May 17, 1991 The Observer page 27 
Welcome to ND, where (football) coaches are legends 
Enter two men in suits,--------­shaking hands and smiling pompously. 
Well hello, coach MacLeod, so glad you could come to coach here at Notre Dame. As you know, we picked you from a long list of highly qualified ap­plicants. And as you also know, this is the place where sports legends are SCOTT BRUTOCAO made, and you could be the Assistant Sports Ed~or next one. Picture It! Emeritus 
Professional coach of 18 years comes to bring the Irish back on top! Striking! After all, this place has been the home of Rockne, Leahy, Parseghian, and now Holtz. Who knows? Maybe you'll extend the lore to basketball. 
Well, I assume you'll want a tour of the campus. Let's go to the dome ...no, on second thought, I'd like to show you the dome on a football Saturday. Now there's an event. lllght now, why don't we take you on a tour of the "NOTHE DAME-THE PLACE WHERE LEGENDS AHE BOHN" room? It's red-carpeted, you know. But please, Mr. MacLeod, as we walk along, please try to 
~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
C!<DcN§cf(c:lffJULc:IIC!fi<DcNa c:M!E(E! <WE dfcRE PcRD'U:b CJ!D'U. 

RD 


LOUNGI RESTAURANT 
211-3776 219·2722 
01 LMADISON 
A hole in one? 
stay on the carpet. 
Well, here's the room. Lovely, isn't it? We're very proud of it. There's a rare photo of Rockne. And there's a shot of the 1930 national championship team. There's a golden reproduction of the Knute Rockne stamp. Did you know that Rockne's the first athletic coach ever recognized on a United States postage stamp? How about that? Anyway, there's a wax model of Grantland Rice's Four Horsemen, and there he is, the Gipper. Yeah, we know it's a photo of Ronald Reagan playing the role of the Gipper, but doesn't he look charismatic? Please, coach, stay on the carpet. 
As you'll notice, there's even some basketball mementos here. There's the ball used when Notre Dame, coached by That Other Guy, upset UCLA to stop their 88-game winning streak. 
As you know, though, Notre Dame is the home of Rockne, Leahy, Parseghian and now Holtz. 
And boy does the nation love Notre Dame. Why, it's just a matter of time before all our sports will be picked up by a major network, right down to our club sports! Personally, Mr. Faustus, er, I mean Mr. MacLeod, I think our basketball team has wonderful marketing potential, and it'll only be a matter of time before people start associating you with the Notre Dame glory. Who knows, maybe you will someday be remembered in the "NOTRE DAME-THE PLACE WHERE LEGENDS ARE BORN" room. 
Pardon me? Who was That Other Guy? Please, coach MacLeod, don't forget where you are standing! This is hallowed ground. This is the official commemoration of Rockne, Leahy, Parseghian and now Holtz. We can't remember everyone here. Think how it would affect our image, let alone clutter the room! No, coach MacLeod, I'm afraid we'll have no more talk about That Other Guy, or the Other Guy football coaches either. They are the type of refuse that would soil a nice carpeted room like this.. We're more likely to brush them under the carpet than display they (or anything associated with them) on it. It's bad for the Notre Dame mystique. Watch your step on that carpet, as it gets kind of lumpy up ahead, Mr. MacLeod. 
But as you'll see, the Notre Dame fans are the greatest in the world. They cheer quite loudly when you win. 
What? Did they cheer That Other Guy? Well, yes, of course they did, when he won. Why did he leave? 
Mr. MacLeod, can we talk about this some other time, preferably when we're out of the "NOTRE DAME-THE PLACE WHERE LEGENDS ARE BORN" room? After all, this is the home of Rockne, Leahy, Parseghian and now Holtz. 

Joe Topel (center) shoots at the Senior Golf Tournament as Todd Hill (left) and Jason Thomas look on. 
Look Here! 

You can gel the "Best Pizza in Town" at "their" price. 
For a limited time if you use a "Domino's" coupon you can get our pizza at their price. Order now, this offer is too good to last. 
,. 
Not valid with any other offer. Valid for dine in, carry out and delivery. For delivery on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Campus call 232-2499 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
·~ 
~ 
..

~ust because you're gra_duating, doesn't mean you have to lose touch 
Get a subscription to The Observer 
And have the latest news and sports from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's delivered to you for $25 a semester 
Send to: The Observer P.O.Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
or $40 for the whole year. Name 
Address 
City State Zip 
--------------~--------~--------------~ -­
----~---------­
page 28 The Observer Friday, May 17, 1991 
· Irish lacrosse fails to earn second consecutive trip to NCAA tourney 
Special to The Observer next eight goals to take a 10-7 Sullivan fmished the season as lead with 4:08 remaining in the the team's leading scorer (32­
The Notre Dame lacrosse fourth quarter. Senior attack­27-59) for the second consecu­team, which defeated Midwest man Mike Sennett led the Irish tive season. his 27 assists rivals Ohio State and Air Force with two goals and one assist, pushed him into a tie with '86 earlier this season, faced a while midfielders Brian Schirf graduate Tom Grote for second strong Michigan State team May and Ed Lamb chipped in two place on the Irish all-time list 4 to determine the recipient of goals each. with 62 career assists. the automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament. The Spartans The Irish closed the season Sullivan's 127 career points edged the Irish 10-8 at Old with a 7-7 record and failed to places him fourth on the Irish College Field for the victory and make their second consecutive list and only 27 shy of Joe a trip to the NCAAs. trip to the NCAA tournament. Franklin's all-time record. 
After trailing 6-3 at the 3:03 Last year, the Irish one of their Senior John Capano eclipsed mark of the second quarter, better games of the season de­the Irish groundball record by The Notre Dame lacrosse team closed the 1991 season 7-7. Michigan State called a time­spite losing to Harvard. snagging his 262nd career out, then scored seven of the Junior attackman Mike groundball in the season fmale. the women's basketball pro­

gram, the charisma and non­
Guffey 

stop energy of baseball coach was able to get some rest "She works so hard everyday Pat Murphy, the bolting of
continued from page 32 

before the match." at practice," complimented Rocket Ismail first to the NFL
Women's 
Harris's opener with Louderback. "When she went coach spent 20 years of his life, and then to Toronto. Matthews was not unfamiliar, out to play a match you knew won 400 games and graduated It's sad to say that in a four
continued from page 32 
as both Harris and Barton had she was always going to give a all of his players. But bankers years filled with so many highs secutive NCAA tournament, beaten her in close matches hundred percent." look at real bottom lines, the that the image I will always which invites the top 64 players during the regular season. Louderback did not hesitate ones that show up when seats have in mind is that of Phelps, in the nation, Barton lost in the After unsuccessful attempts by to take advantage of her versa­are empty for the Creighton looking so alone as he an­first round of last year's tourney CeCe Cahill in 1989 and Barton tility. game and when the record is a nounced his retirement to a also. the past two years, Harris "She was just a great team disappointing 12-20. throng of well-wishers. 
While Barton had not played posted the first individual win player," said Louderback. "She So the coach "retired" while What I will also never forget a match in almost a month be­for the Irish at the NCAAs, played at five and six singles the banker spent the week in is how Phelps suddenly became cause of an early season fmale which invites the top 20 teams and filled in at all three doubles bowl meetings in Florida, a folk hero to people who had and final exams, Graham in the nation. spots throughout the season. probably trying to squeeze a booed him the past four years played four singles matches in Kim was probably even more few more dollars out of the in the JACC. They called for his the team tournament earlier in "It was a great year for of an asset off the court," said football program. It might be head and then made him a the week and kept her momen­Melissa," said Louderback. Louderback. "She's such a hard wise to invest those dollars in a martyr. tum, beating her next two op­"She ended up at 33-6 for the worker and a great example for public relations course. Would all of this have been ponents after Barton 6-1, 6-0 year playing at one and two our young players in the Some people say they will different if the administration and 6-1, 6-1. singles, which is just unbeliev­classroom, and I think that will never forget that 1988 national had made the right decision 
"Stanford didn't have to play able. We had a tough schedule help them in the long run." championship and the Fiesta four years ago and promoted doubles on Sunday in the team this year, and for her to lose With Harris, Barton, and a Bowl victory over West Virginia. Associate Athletic Director tournament, so that really only six matches is quite an ac­powerful lineup returning to Others remember both Orange Roger Valdiserri instead of helped out Graham a lot," said complishment." face a schedule that includes 12 Bowls, in particular the return bringing Rosenthal in from the second-year Irish coach Jay While captain Kim Pacella is teams in the top 25, the Irish called back by a penalty on world of stocks, bonds and low­Louderback. "They were sup­the lone senior on the this hope next year can be another New Year's Day in 1991. interest mortgages? No one will posed to play at 9 a.m. Monday, year's young squad, which was year of firsts-a double invita­The diehards recall the fenc­ever know the answer. which would've helped Tracy, ranked tied for 25th going into tion to the NCAA tournament in ing dominance, David DiLucia, But for now, the images per­but rain delayed the rnatch the post-season, her loss will be both the team and individual Heismans won and lost, new sist because they are so recent until the afternoon, so Graham noticed in more ways than one. brackets. television contracts, the rise of and so dominating. 
t 
I 
THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION OFFERS HEARTFELT CONGRATULATIONS AND BEST WISHES TO OUR GRADUATES OF 1991  
~~C~~LO~O~~~~~~S ~'DMI~Isrr~~rrio~ *9vf.91SPE~ o~ ~~~~~s ~'DMig{JSPJ(~rrio~ *9vf.91SPE~O~ SCI~f}{CE ~~~'DMI:J{ISrr~~ryio~ Col .1 .EGE OF Bus1:--.sEss ADI\ liNIS!'RATION ----~-,-­--­____... _________ -UNIVERSITY oF NoTRE DAME  

----~-~--~------­
, "'. . ... -.. .; 
page 29

Friday, May 17, 1991 The Observer 

.. 
Women's soccer ready for fall season 

By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team, after completing their fall season in with seven game winning streak and a Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship to their credit, will be looking to boost the program to the level of national prominence as they begin their fourth season on the varsity level. 

The Irish finished 16-3-1 this season, but faced a few too many club teams to achieve national acclaim. Irish coach 
Media Guide photo 

Chris Petrucelli, who in the fall
The Notre Dame women's soccer team finished 16-3-1 this season. 
will begin his second year at the 
They shutout Xavier 4-0 in the last game of the year. 
helm, believes the squad has .--------------------------------------------------, shown that they're ready for 







the next level of play. Gone from next season's schedule are 
N.E. Missouri, Indiana-South Bend, and St. Mary's-in their place are consistent pow­erhouses Cincinatti, William & Mary, Massachusetts, and Central Florida . 
The schedule, which is com­prised of about 90 percent NCAA Division I teams, isn't the only change that the Irish will face next season. 
"Next year will be as much of a totally different scenario as we could have," said Petrucelli. "We have a lot of questions go­ing into next year. There aren't going to be any any easy games 
~~The next year, and it'll be interest-
L-----------------------------------...Jing to see how we react to 
SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AND AMERICAN DISHES 
"ENJOY A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE IN ORIENTAL DINING" 
• 
PRIVATE DINING BOOTHS 

• 
FRESH INGREDIENTS 

• 
NO MASS PRODUCTION ·HEALTHY FAMILY STYLE 


DINING ·VEGETARIAN MFNU 
6329 University Commons HOURS Mon Thurs 11 AM 9 PM (Across From Univers1ly Park Mall) Fnday 11 AM 10 PM South Bend. IN 46635 Saturd•y I? Noo11 10 PM 
I '" f<,.•;erz•atio"' & Carr]'-0uJ Ca//­
272-6702 
ROFFLER 

SORBIE PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
ROCco·g gTYlf gHQP 
531 N. Michigan St. Appointments or Walk-In 
Men & Women's Styling Cuts-Permanents-Color 
CULTURAL CALENDAR 
1990·199i 
SAINT 
MARYIS 
COLLEGE 
/ 


FRIDAY, MAY 17, 8 P.M., O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
The South Bend Chamber Singers 
Nancy Menk, music director 
present 
A Concert of American Music Copland • Bernstein Pinkham•Luboff Saint Mary's & Notre Dame Students Admitted Free with ID General Admission $6/$5 
Tickets available at the Saint Mary's box office, in O'Laughlin, Mon.-Fri., 10-4. Visa/MasterCard: 284-4626. For updated program information, call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline: 674-0900, category 1740. 
------tti··------­Saint Mary's Col leg~ 
NOTRE DAME 11\:DIA:\.-\ 
Chris Petrucelli 

sported a 12-1-1 record. Junior Susie Zilvitis, Notre Dame's all­time leading scorer, turned the hat trick and goalkeeper Michelle Lodgya recorded her 11th shutout of the season in the win . 
"The goal of the program is to win a national championship, and the schedule upgrade is a step we have to take in order to reach the next step, which is to play what can be considered one of the top schedules in the nation." 
In their off-season work this spring, the Irish faced some quality regional competition, which gave Petrucelli a chance to view the extreme youth of the squad-a starting lineup which included eight freshman, for instance. 
"The spring gave us some promise looking to the future, but it also showed that we still have some work to do," said Petrucelli. 
The Irish will have to work on replacing graduating senior co­captains Bernie Holland and Mimi Suba. 
"We lose some chemistry with those two leaving," said 
Phone (219)233·4957 


Petrucelli. "Losing Bernie's en­thusiasm and the chemistry that she created is going to be difficult to replace." 
Suba, after a slow start, fin­ished the season as one of the better players on the squad. 
"She was the only left-footed player on the team, which cre­ates a big hole for us on the left side of the midfield right now," said Petrucelli. 
The Irish will be left with only two seniors again next fall-Molly Lennon and Zilvitis. Zilvitis started all 20 games for the Irish at forward and fin­ished with 10 goals and seven assists. 
"Molly provides us with a great deal of leadership, which is something we'll need with such a young team," said Petrucelli. "Zilvitis characteris­tically only scores important goals. If we win 12-0 she may not score, but if we win 1-0 she'll have the goal." 
Along with the two seniors who have been part of the pro­gram since its inception, a strong recruiting class, includ­ing All-American Tiffany Thompson form Texas, should provide the Irish with a base for their attempted rise to a nationally recognized program. 
"Our recruiting classes from now on will be recognized as some of the better ones in the country," said Petrucelli. "We have the academic reputation, we've built the soccer reputa­tion, and we have the scholar­ship and recruiting dollars. Everything is there for us to draw some of the best players in the nation." 
Brown to be honored at banquet 
Special to The Obaerver 
Notre Dame tight end Derek Brown will be one of ten Samaritan All-American college football scholar-athletes honored in the Phoenix area, May 18-20, at the 17th annual Fiesta Bowl Spring Banquet. 
Brown and the other nine Samaritan All-Americans were selected by a panel of Phoenix­area and national sports media for exhibiting high standards of excellence in academics, citizenship and athletics. 
Other 1991 "Samaritan All­
.. 
Americans" include Louisville safety Ray Buchanan, Texas quarterback Peter Gardere, Florida State tailback Amp Lee, Miami fullback Steve McGuire, Stanford tailback Glyn Milburn, Penn State quarterback Tony Sacca, Michigan offensive tackle Greg Skrepenak, Alabama tailback Siran Stacy and Pittsburgh quarterback Alex Van Pelt. 
The Fiesta Bowl Spring Banquet, made possible by a grant from the Samaritan Foundation, annually attracts 1,500 spectators to the Phoenix Clvlc Plaza. The Samaritan All­Americans will be interviewed at the banquet by ABC-TV sportscaster Gary Bender. 
While In the Phoenix area each student-athlete will tape ~ public service announcement for the Boys and Girls Clubs of America as part of the Fiesta Bowl's Youth Development Program. 
• 
Friday, May 17, 1991
page 30 The Observer 

Senior Mike O'Connor will attempt to qualify for the NCAA Championships in the 5000 and 10,000 meter events. Because of commencement, only six athletes will represent the Irish at the meet. 
By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
Although the Notre Dame men's track team could have sent 15 athletes to the Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Athletes of America (IC4As) outdoor championships tomorrow and Sunday at Harrisonburg, Va., an event called graduation caused a slight problem. 
This year Notre Dame was only able to send six athletes to the competition. 
As a prelude to the IC4As, the Irish hosted the 66th annual Central Collegiate Conference outdoor championships two weeks ago, taking fourth-place and capturing four individual championships. 
Sophomore J.T. Burke 
(3:51.89) won at 1500 meters, while senior co-captain Ryan Cahill clocked in at 14:11.40 in the 5000. Ryan Mihalko, who will return next year as a fifth year senior, defended his javelin title with a toss of 206-9, while senior Pat Kearns snagged the 10,000 meter title with a 
29:55.68 effort, the fourth-best time in Irish history in the 
Men's track headed to IC4As 

Pat Kearns 
event. 

Freshman Jon Smerek took second place in the discus, while the Irish 4x400 relay team lowered its IC4A qualify­ing time with a third place time of 3:16.50. 
"I think we were able to get better performances out of our kids at the Central meet than we have been getting in recent weeks," said 16th-year coach Joe Piane. "We were also able to get some big breakthroughs as far as some individuals are concerned." 
Because of Sunday's com­mencement exercises, the num­ber making the trip to the IC4As was drastically lowered. Kearns and Mike O'Connor have a chance at finishing one-two in the 10,000 and 5,000 meters, while Mihalko, recently named co-captain of next year's squad along with Brain Peppard, can win in the javelin, according to Piane. Mihalko, a member of the Irish football team, owns the school record in the javelin with a 222-8 toss last year. 
Piane believes next year will be even more productive for Mihalko. 
"He was throwing farther last year than he has this spring, so hopefully he'll be able to improve after the football season ends," said Pian e. 
Junior Raghib Ismail qualified for the NCAA meet at Eugene, Ore., with a time of 10.34 in the 100-meters during a Provisional meet. Cahill also qualified for the NCAAs with a time of 
14:00.41 in the 5000. 

Cahill, named MVP of the this year's team, could finish his fi­nal season by competing in three national championships in one year. Last fall, Cahill led Notre Dame to a third place finish in the NCAA cross-coun­try championships and also participated in the NCAA indoor meet in March. 
ND softball snags 2nd MCC crown 
Special to The Observer 
Defending champion Notre Dame, after winning three straight games in the Isoers bracket, won its second consec­utive Midwestern Collegiate Conference title with a 2-0 vic­tory over Detroit Wednesday at Indianapolis. 
The Irish dropped a 3-1 deci­sion to regular-season champion Detroit to open play Tuesday, and had to score a run in the bottom of the seventh inning to knock Butler from the tournament by a 5-4 count. Notre Dame then evened the battle with the Detroit at one in the following game. down 3-0, the Irish rallied for three runs in the sixth inning and six in the seventh for a 9-3 win to force a final game with the Titans. 
In the championship contest, freshman Carrie Miller picked up both the victory and the game-winning RBI. In the third inning, she doubled to send home sophomore Ronny Alvarez, then scored on a single by Megan Fay. Miller held Detroit to three hits to record the shutout. She picked up three wins in the tournament for the Irish to improve to 10-6 on the season. 
Detroit, which lost two of three to Notre Dame in the tournament, placed six players on the first-team All-MCC squad, while freshman second baseman Christi Connoyer and senior outfielder Megan Fay represented the Irish on the squad. 
The Irish led second-team se­lections with three choices, in­cluding sophomore pitcher Staci Alford, senior first baseman Kathy Vernetti, and junior shortstop Ruth Kmak . 
Wait a minute ... 
Before you pop the corks and drive down Notre Dame Avenue after commencement, get this: 
You're a part of the family 
... as an alumnus/a. This entitles you to one final pop quiz: (No peeking at the answers and no wagering please) 
1. 
(This first one is absolutely. positively FALSE. Got that?) The Alumni Association is a fund-raising organization. (FALSE) 

2. 
The Alumni Association is a service organization with 92,000 alumni and 210 clubs worldwide which provide a wide array of programs. (TRUE. lt•s the most extensive alumni network in the world.) 

3. 
The majority of alumni wear plaid pants. (FALSE. It only seems that way.) 

4. 
Reunions, Hesburgh Lectures, student send-offs, legacy receptions and community service programs are just some of the events sponsored by the Alumni Association. (TRUE. We couldn•t afford an ad listing everything we do.) 

5. 
You will have to pay dues to the Alumni Association. (FALSE. You are considered a lifetime member just by graduating. Some deal. eh?) 


Congratulations! 
For information on the Notre Dame Club nearest you, contact our office at 201 Main Building (219) 239-6000, or keep on the lookout for your first issue of ALUMNI, the newsletter for alumni which lists all the clubs. Don't forget to keep your address current with our office; your classmates will be looking for you. And stop by the Hospitality Center during football weekends in the JACC; we'll be there to say hello! 

• 


Friday, May 17, 1991 The Observer page 31 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 "Metamor-55 Like a phoses" author throwback 
1 Acad. degree 
28 Streamline copy sa Busy insect 
4 Manor owners 
59 Present magic 
32 Soldier in gray

9 Red-carpet 
act, on the
33 Damsel's
honoree 

street
lament

12 Preserves, in a 62 See 12 Down
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 34 Peeping Tom 
way 63 Maid in "Die 
saw her

14 "And I sae Fledermaus" 36 Big bird 
DAD Sf..~S ~( S\J~ ISNT weary fu' -!": 64 Religious G()\1:{6 OUT. Burns 37 Present twine, groups 15 Choler on the street 65 Prefix for 16 Present answer, 39 Part of R.S.V.P. metrical on the street 40 Series season 66 Shouts 18 Heir, frequently 42 Pea petals &7 Meadow 19"­
43 Understand

Murderer," 
44 Three, in Toledo DOWN
Ngaio Marsh 
45 Stowe book 
mystery 

1 Emerald Isle 20 Present combo, 46 Joins 2 Present praise, on the street 47 Decorous 
on the street 22 Bridle part 50 Employer 3 Be worthy of, 23 Restrain 52 Present street once 24 Brief look attire 4 Manager 
Piniella sWitch mo. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
&Assaulted suddenly 7 "Dieu et mon 
23 Present joker, 35 Lyrical poem 52 Place for a
8 Austen title 
on the street 38 Fronton cheer lectern
starter 
24 First-rate 41 U.N. member 53 Black
9 Passport 25 Madagascar 45 Engine inventor 54 Pipe part 

r.twtttttliii. 

addition 
~ 10 Press mammal 46 Ermine, e.g. 56 Speck .:;:..L::...;:.+::::..J.-:--1-=-1 11 Aemain 27 Duct 48 NBC show 57 Huge guns: undecided Abbr.
29 Present 49 Dwell .:::+.!....~-=~~~ 12 Presidential employment, on 51 Actor Erwin et 60 Out of sorts monogram 
the street al. 61 "-Girls" 13 Spore clusters 
30 Vine-covered 

on ferns 
31 Yarns

.::::+:..:..J-;+==-1 17 Wool fat Answers to any three clues in this 
>=-~-'4'='~ 21 "What's-in 33 Nav. bigwig puzzle are available by touch-tone the Bone": A. 34 Opposite of phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each Davies precipitous minute). 
JAY HOSLER

SPELUNKER 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE 01.: SPELUNKER SAYS 
GOOD LU(K~ lcrll 
0 

DORKERSI 



-

JAKE FROST 

Sports 
page 32 Friday, May 17, 1991 
Irish baseball playing for MCC title, NCAA bid 

By DAVE MCMAHON playing at full potential. Associate Sports Editor "The thing that concerns me most right now is that we're 
For the Notre Dame baseball really banged up," said Murphy, team (42-16), this weekend's the second winningest coach in Midwestern Collegiate Irish history, now in his fourth Conference tournament is a no­year. "Eric Danapilis (torn win situation. By not winning hamstring) didn't play in the the tournament, the Irish, last 12 regular season games ranked 19th by Collegiate and won't play effectively in the BasebalVESPN, may not make tournament. Greg Layson the NCAA tournament field of (shoulder) and Mike Coss 48, according to coach Pat (sprained thumb) will play, but Murphy. they won't be at 100 percent." 
Notre Dame, seeded second in The injuries came as the the MCC tournament, won their Irish completed a grueling opener 8-2 Tuesday against schedule which included 28 Dayton, sending the Irish into a road games and over 15,000 Wednesday afternoon matchup miles of traveling before they against third-seeded Detroit. played their first home game. 
Tied 2-2 going into the bottom Danapilis, who was recently of the eighth behind starter named one of 40 finalists for David Sinnes and reliever AI Team USA, the squad that plays Walania, shortstop Craig to qualify for the Olympic Counsell ripped a double to left games, went down on May 1 in center to begin a six run a doubleheader sweep of outburst. Senior Frank Jacobs, Valparaiso. Layson joined him after crushing his 19th home­on the sidelines with a shoulder run of the season in the sixth injury, leaving the Irish without inning, was intentionally the services of two of their most walked. First baseman Joe powerful hitters for a four­Binkiewicz drove in Counsell game series with Detroit. and Jacobs with a double off The Titans swept a double­the wall in left-center field. header on Saturday, May 4, 6-5 Mike Coss then doubled to right and 7-4, marking the first time center to drive in Binkiewicz in two years that Notre Dame and give Notre Dame a 5-2 had been swept in a double­lead. header. The Irish, in character­
After a Dayton pitching istic form, recovered from the change, Irish catcher Matt Haas setback, taking two from singled before a 2-run homerun Detroit on Sunday, 6-2 and 7-1. from desil!'nated hitter Pat Notre Dame ended the regu­
Leahy wrapped up the win. lar season with a four game 
The greatest concern to sweep of Dayton with ten home Murphy going into the tourna­runs, including three by Jacobs. ment was injuries that will keep at least three Irish players from see BASEBALUpage 24 
Dilucia, men's tennis face Kansas in NCAA tournament 
By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame men's tennis coach Bob Bayliss was deter­mined not to let it happen again. He knew the team was qualified to play in the NCAA tournament last year, but this year others believed so also. 
Last week the Irish received their first ever bid to the 20­team tournament after being ranked first in the fmal Region IV coaches poll. 
Notre Dame went 9-2 against regional competition, with losses coming in the seventh match of the season against Indiana and to Wisconsin in the fmal match of the year. 
The last loss three weeks ago will not be a sign of things to come, according to Bayliss, in his fourth year as Irish coach. 
Last season, the Irish went 6­4 against teams that were in the top 2 5 at some point in the sea­son en route to a 24-4 record. Yet the team failed to receive an NCAA bid. 
Bayliss made last year's pow­erful schedule even more diffi­cult for this season, and the 19th-ranked Irish (18-11) pro­ceeded to prove that they be­long in a match against Kansas in the opening round of the NCAA Championships at Athens, Ga. The match was scheduled to begin at 9 a.m. to­day. 
"Everybody's healthy and we have no problems to deal with," said Bayliss. "We're hoping the big matches that we played during the season will pay off for us this weekend." 
The Irish faced the 22nd­ranked Jayhawks (16-8) in February at the National Indoor Championships in Louisville, sweeping the singles matches 6­0. 
The scenario is different for today's game, however, as the teams will meet outside under hot, humid conditions on a newly resurfaced court, which will benefit those with a serve­and-volley style of play. Kansas has also gained the services of Chris Walker, who missed the first contest against the Irish with an injury. 
Bayliss and everyone else in collegiate tennis knew the Irish had a gem when junior circuit phenom David DiLucia signed with the Irish three years ago. DiLucia has more than lived up to his billing, as All-American shoots to become Notre Dame first two-time All-American in tennis. Currently ranked fourth in the Volvo Tennis/Collegiate Rankings, the junior from Norristown, Pa., carries a 43-5 record into the tourney. 
The NCAAs won't end for DiLucia after the team competi­tion, as he will compete as one of the top 16 seeds in the indi­vidual bracket and then pair with sophomore Chuck Coleman in the doubles competition. The duo is currently ranked fifth in the nation with 20-5 record. 
Playing 36 matches against ranked opponents finally caught up to DiLucia in the final match of the season, as Wisconsin's Jack Waite snapped his 24­match winning streak to end the season. But DiLucia wants nothing more than to begin the tournament and show that the Irish belong among the group of elite tennis programs. 
"There's no feeling like being here, especially after what hap-
see TENNIS/page 26 

Harris wins NCAA match; first for women's tennis 
By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
Sophomore Melissa Harris snagged Notre Dame's first win ever in the NCAA Division I women's tennis championships held this week at Stanford University. 
Junior Tracy Barton became the first woman in Irish tennis history to make consecutive appearances at the Division I championships. Facing the un­
-
·luck of the draw, she was matched up with second­ranked Debbie Graham of Stanford. 
Harris, ranked 44th in the nation, opened with a 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 decision over Northwestern junior Lindsay Matthews, ranked 52nd. After taking the three-hour long battle, Harris faced Florida's Andrea Farley, the ninth-ranked player on the college circuit. Farley, who caught fire at the end of the season for the top-ranked Florida squad (29-0), ousted Harris, 6-0, 6-1. 
Stanford junior Graham, ranked second in the nation and playing for the number-two team in the nation, defeated 35th-ranked Barton in Monday's opening round, 6-3, 6-2. Playing in her second con-
see WOMEN'S! page 28 
A banker in an AD's shoes? 
I realized the othe.---------­pays the bills and supports other sports. That day that I've been here means the banker must stand by the coach four years now, exactly when someone persists with rumors of steroids, the same length of time recruiting violations or other misconduct. as Notre Dame .Athletic The next stop is Burke Memorial Golf Course, Director Richard where Noel O'Sullivan once coached "g-o-1-r for Rosenthal. 15 seasons. Of course, that was until he mys­
The biggest teriously gave up that job just a few days before difference is that, for the 1988 season. better or worse, it's Let's go over to the practice fields. Whose time for me to move figure is that outlined against the sky on the on, while he will start soccer field? It's Dennis Grace, the man who led his second term. the Irish to the 1988 NCAA Tournament and 
What's that, yov ask?_________ then left under a cloud of doubt a year later. Has it really been four The tour now moves to the basement of the years since the banker took over an athletic Joyce ACC. This is where Art Lambert once department and replaced some of that luster on coached until the banker sided with his the Golden Dome with hundred dollar bills? volleyball players in a mid-season dispute that 
Time flies, but there's always time for one left the program tainted and Lambert on a plane final trip around Notre Dame's famed athletic back to Idaho. facilities. The real arena is upstairs, the one where a 
Let's start with the banker's favorite place, 
see GUFFEY/ page 28 
Notre Dame Stadium. Football fills the coffers, 








