
~·-~~t

.g.s. 

. 1!1--­
IU2•1U2 

server
II SQ UIC EN If N N lA I 
Satnt Marys College 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1991
VOL. XXIV NO. 38 
.._,_._ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Thomas wins Supreme Court confirmation 52 to 48 
Wi\SIIINGTON (i\l'l Clarence Thomas won Senate eonfirrnation l'or tlw Supn~me Court TuPsday night on a 52-to­4H votP, ovt>rcoming explosive IL('CllSILI.illllS of SI'Xllal ha­I'ILSSilH'nl to b1~conw thn sneond black justke in history. 
With rrucial lwlp from South­Prn lh~rnouats. Thomas will LakP his sPat as the I 06th jus­lien, a staunchly conservative stu·rnssor to one of the court's last libnrals. 
Tlw votn nnded one of the an­griPst, most nmotionally rhargNl confirmation battles 
ever. Thomas said he wanted to put the ordeal behind him. 
"This is more a timn for ht~aling. not a time for anger or for animus or animosity," Thomas said, standing outside his house with his wife, Vir­ginia, under an umbrella in the rain. 
"I guess in so many ways, as I say to my wife so many times, I'd like to thank America," said Thomas, who rose from rural poverty in Georgia to promi­nence in government. 
Thomas had been accused by 

• 
Hills' response/ page 7 

• 
Public reaction I page 7 

• 
Byrd's criticism/ page 7 


law professor Amta Hill of 
making unwanted advances and 
humiliating her with lewd re­
marks a decade ago when she 
worked for him at the Educa­
tion Department and Equal 
Employment Opportunity 
Commission. The nation was 
transfixed as the accusations 
were spelled out in explicit de­. tail and debated in nationally televised hearings. Even while voting for Thomas, 
Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, R-Kan., one of the two women in the Senate, said he will "live under a cloud of suspicion he can never fully escape." 
Immediately after the vote. President Bush called Thomas with congratulations. Thomas had watched the vote on televi­sion at home in Alexandria. Va.. 
"You're a wonderful inspira­tion and you had the over­whelming support of the Amer­ican people," Bush said, ac­cording to press secretary Marlin Fitzwater. "You have a lifetime of service to your coun­try ahead. Well done." Barbara Bush also got on the phone to eongratulate Thomas. 
In Oklahoma, llill said she was satisfiPd she had been "able to go out and tell what I knew true." Slw also said she was pleased that national awareness of sexual harass­ment had been raised. 
"What I hope is that none of this will deter others from corning forward. This is an im­portant issue and the dialogue will not sttip here," she said. 
Thomas' confirmation 
see CONFIRMED/ page 7 
Professors speak out on Thomas hearings 
By BECKY BARNES A positive result of the trial. News Writer according to Ava Collins, Notrn Dame professor of communica­
The sexual harassment alle­tions and theater and head of gations of Anita Hill have sur­the gender studies program. is rounded new Supreme Court that it has raised public aware­Justice Clarence thomas in ' ness of sexual harassment. controversy before he has even . "The trials will raise the issun
0
raised a foot to the bench. ' . that there are certain types of 
As a result of the televised 
behavior that are unaceeptabln. nature of the proceedings, the People will havn to pay atten­public has had the opportunity tion to what they say and do,"

llllt;;'
to form their own opinions of she said. the Senate's actions and sexual Sexual harassment is consti­harassment in general. Douglas Kmiec tuted when unwelcome sexual 
Douglas Kmiec, professor of advances are made a condition 
both Thomas and Hill into pub­
law at Notre Dame, feels that of nmployrnnnt, are used as a 
lic scrutiny. Kmiec expressed
the Senate Judiciary Committee basis for employment decisions 
concern of the results of such
has not handled the allegations such as promotions or raisns, or 
publicity on their reputations.
professionally. create an intimidating, of­
"I think people are very con­
"All of us feel that the politi­fensive, or hostile working nn­
cerned that accusations can de­
cal and governmental process vironment, said Collins. 
feat, unfairly, a person's public
has let us down because we feel The rights of women and mi­
life or public service," he said. 
let down by the Senate commit­norities in the workplace arn 
Others have expressed con­
tee," he said. protected by tlw Civil Hights i\et 
cerns that the proceedings may
In Kmiec's opinion, the Senate of 1964, and sexual harassment Judiciary Committee should have been manipulated for po­is a federal offense, said Collins. 
litical reasons or as a "modern
have confidentially issued an Harassment may be 
form of covert racism," said
The Observer/Elisa Klosterman investigation of the allegations heterosexual or homosnxual, and sent a summary to the Se­Kmiec. Whatever the motives and the victim may be male or
A whole new light nate. No part of the process for the trial, he said he sees female although 90-95% of ha­definite negative results in the
should have been on television, rassment is directed towards
Sophomore Cheryl Thompson reads in the "Frankroid Reading 
creation of "unnecessary divi­
he added. 
Right Light," which was created by fifth-year engineering students see DISSENT/ page 7
sions between black and white,
Media broadcast of the the
Tim Slattery and Jim Mateja, in the Architecture Building. 
and men and women."
trial has brought the lives of 
Role of South Bend police department is focus of off-campus security forum 
. sponsibility," Marciniak said. apartments and take inventory By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI "Don't avoid the officers that of what can be stolen when the News Writer arn there to protect you." students are on break, 
i\ccording to Marciniak, many Marciniak explained. 
In an open forum on off­students not of legal drinking Not only do students become t·ampus security Tuesday, age are frightened by patrolling easy prey for burglars during a Honald Marciniak, chief of the officers. "They've (the ollicers) party, but they also alienate South B1n1 d Police, assured seen it all, they arnn't going to their neighbors with excessive Notn~ I>anw studnnts that police bust you if you're under 21," noise and destruction, accord­officers do not go out of their Marciniak said. "But at the ing to Caldwell. "A good idea way to break up parties. same time don't go around would be to get to know your 
"Wt> know that collnge is a drawing attention to yourself." neighbors and let them know tirnP whf'n you want to havn lin did warn. however, that when you plan to have a party," run. and WP don't want to keep students must watch for he said. you from that. We have more occasional raids by the Stop He added that by establishing important things to do than (JJ-Jderage Drinking and Sales good relations, neighbors will baby-sit," Marciniak said. (S(JDS) task force. keep an eye out for burglars 
;\long with Mareiniak. Phil Caldwell and Marciniak also when students are on break .Johnson. assistant director of urged students who walk home and they will be more tolerable Notre I>anw Snt~urity; .lim intoxicated to use eaution. "You of students who have parties. Caldwell. administrative assis­bneome easy prey when you are But even informed neighbors tant to the mayor; Captain Eu­walking down the street at complti.in when crowds become gene Kyl1~ of the South Bnnd three in the morning not excessively noisy and destruc­l'olkn and Bill Kirk. assistant knowing what city you're in," tive, according to Marciniak. viet~ pn~sidnnt for rnsidencn life, Marciniak said. Parties that are broken up by spokt~ on tlw curnmt off-cam­lie added that intoxieation is the police usually are because pus crinw situation. not the only cause for the easy of complaints from neighbors, 
"Think about what we can do victimization of students. "You Marciniak said. togetlwr. Wn twnd to hear from have to be aware and alert to "We're not party-poopers. you." said Johnson. Mardniak what's around you so you can We're not in the business of also emphasized the impor­take action," he said. breaking up parties," Marciniak 
The Observermm Farish 

tance of cooperation from stu­By throwing a party for 500 said. However, he did say that 
Captain Eugene Kyle of the South Bend Police participates in a forum
dents. "You are all adults and people, students are allowing 
see CRIME I page 4 on off-campus crime and student-community relations Tuesday. 
you need to show a little re-potential burglars to enter their 


page 2 Wednesday, October 16, 1991 
INSIDE COLUMN 
What is really important to ND students? 
A few weeks ago, I returned to my small hometown burg of Sturgis, MI (not to be confused with the prolific Sturgis, SO of motorcycle fame) to pick up warm clothes to combat wonderful South Bend weather and to get a bicycle tire fixed. At the shop, the owner made some cheap conversation ------­while she worked. 
"So is Notre Dame better to you this year than last? Is your GPA still lower than dirt?" 
"Oh, this year is indeed better than last. I'm off probation; organic chemistry raised my GPA tremulously" I said. 
"How is the football team this year? Sorry about Michigan." 
"Yeh, well that happens. Don't feel sorry for me, all I do for the team is cheer. The final success or loss is theirs, not mine. Too many people say 'Well, we kick the snot out of 'em' when really all we did was watch." 
"Are you guys still called the 'Rah-Rah Boys?'" 
"No, that disappeared about 1972. We're called 'Domers' now, but I think we should be called "Rah-Rah People" (Politically Correct). 
"Why is that?" 
"Well, sometimes I get the impression that all that we care about is football. We have full-contact for men and flag for women." 
"So, you're a big football player, I'd think that would make you happy. There must be more that causes you to feel this way." 
"You are correct. It all started Sept. 15 at the Sesquicentennial Mass." I said. There was an awesome film made for the occasion­a stirring show about the great past of Notre Dame. It honored the vision of Fr. Edward Sorin, our founder. It also touted our strong academics and vision as a Catholic Research University." 
"What;s wrong with that?" 
"Nothing, it was great until they showed a short football spot and the whole place erupted in applause. Frs. Sorin, Hesburgh, and Nieuwland received nothing, while Irv Smith got a standing ovation." 
"What's your problem boy? That was an excellent play. I heard it was the 'highlight of the Irish season."' 
"That it was, but you'd think 150 of tntdi­tion would have at least received a smattering applauded." 
"So that bugs you, huh?" "A bit, yes. It makes me think Steve Hurst 
had a good point." "Whose Steve Hurst?" "Never mind, it's a long story. And I do like 
Irv Smith, I've got a picture I took of him carrying several Hoosiers on my room wall." "Well, here's your tire. Try to keep it in­flated-the tread is really worn down." "Yeh, thanks. See you later Mrs. BikeShop Lady." 
And so, I returned home, under the beauti­ful gold dome. I was safe, amid Safe Walk, Safe Havens, and the apathetic student body-"The Rah-Rah People", ready to drink their beer and cheer their team and then say "Oh yeh, we kicked the (fill in here) out of 
~em." 
My apologies to those of you that care about more than football. 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Tuesday's Staff 
News Systems Alicia Reale Patrick Barth Paul Pearson Mike Murphy Meredith McCullough Cesar Capella Production Accent Lisa Bourdon Gerry Hamilton Peggy Crooks Paige Smoron Ad Design Viewpoint Maria Blohm Brian Stalter Lisa Gunsorek Guy Loranger Graphics Sports Brendan Regan Jennifer Marten Circulation Scoreboard Bill O'Rourke Jim Vogl Matt Novak 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
t 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Station runs Imelda Marcos contest 
• MANILA, Philippines-Guess the date Imelda Marcos returns to the Philippines, and walk away with a pair of shoes. station DZRH launched the contest last and has already been swamped with The widow of deposed President Marcos. famed for her shoe collection, she will return from 5 1/2 years of exile month. "I don't know why so many are oining," announcer Joe Taruc said. "Maybe it's because times are tough and shoes have become unaffordable." Marcos' more than 1,000 pairs of shoes, including disco shoes with blinking lights, have been on display at the presidential palace since she and her husband fled the country in 1986. Marcos has made several ann_ounce~ents of her homecoming date, prompting the radiO statiOn to hold the contest. Five days after Marcos' actual arrival, winning entries will be raffled and 50 winners will be picked. 
NATIONAL 
Public coll~es post tuition increase 
• NEW YOR~ Public colleges and universities are hitting students with the biggest tuition increases in eight years as campuses in at least 30 states struggle to make up deep budget cuts. Average tuition and fees at four­year public institutions rose 12 percent to $2,137 this fall from $1,908 in 1990-91 -the first return to double-digit college inflation since 1983-84 when rates also went up 12 perce~t.' the College Board reported Tuesday in its annual tmtwn survey. Counting average room and board charges of $3,351, the typical four-year public school tab for state residents stands at $5,488. At two-year public colleges, average tuition and fees are up 13 percent to $1,022, compared with $906 the previous year. Average rates at four-year private colleges went up by a far smaller 7 percent. But with tuition already high at many such schools, that still meant a big average dollar boost: 
OF INTEREST 
• Fa?ulty Senate meeting will take place tonight at 7 
p.m. m Room 202 of the Center for Continuing Education. 
MARKET UPDATE 

FORECAST: Mostly sunny and warmer today with highs around the 
upper 50s. Mostly sunny and much warmer Thursday. Highs around 75. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  81  57  
Atlanta  71  58  
Berlin  59  45  
Boston  59  40  
Chicago  49  34  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  82  51  
Denver  79  41  
Detro~  52  41  
Honolulu  84  78  
Houston  86  58  
Indianapolis  58  47  
London  61  52  
Los Angeles  82  63  
Madrid  63  50  
Miarri Beach  77  73  
New Orleans  79  65  
New York  63  52  
Paris  64  52  
Philadelphia  67  41  
Rome  73  63  
St. Louis  57  45  
San F ranclsco  72  56  
Seattle  75  48  
South Bend  61  3 8  
Tokyo  72  58  
Washington, D.C  76  53  

to $10,017, compared with $9,340 in fall 1990. Total fixed charges, including room and board, averaged $14,403, the survey found. 
CAMPUS 

Pandora's rezoning request rejected 
• SOUTH BEND, ln.-A commercial rezoning request by Pandora's Books, located at 808 Howard St., received an unfavorable recommendation from the Area Plan Commission Tuesday. The request to build a two-story bookstore at the current site was defeated 9-2 by 11 of the 16 members of the commission who were present at the meeting, according to Scott Kugler of the commission. The commission opposed the rezoning because of the implications "spot zoning" would have in a residential ar~a. Kugler s_aid. "If could be conceived as illegal." he said. Approximately six residents of the Northeast neighborhood were present at the meeting to voice opposition to the rezoning, while a representative of tlw city was present to support it, he added. The unfavorable recommendation was sent to the City Council to be addressed at their next meeting. Additional information was unavailable at press time. 
NO Bets pled~e from Westwood One 
• Male roles are still available for the SMC Directing II one-act final "Bits and Peices." For more information call Cecelia at 284-4396 or Dona at 284-4033 ' 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1859: Abolitionist John Brown led a group of about 20 men in a raid on Harper's Ferry. 

• 
In 1916: 75 years ago, Margaret Sanger opened the first birth control clinic, in New York City. 

•ln1962: 
The Cuban missile crisis began as President Kennedy was informed by his aides that reconnaissance photographs had revealed the presence of missile bases in Cuba. 

•In 
1987: A 58 1/2-hour drama in Midland, Texas, ended happily as rescuers finally freed Jessica McClure, an 18­month-old girl who had fallen 22 feet down an abandoned 


well. 

~I 
Wednesday, October 16, 1991 The Observer 

Special to The Observer 
A four-day international eon­fnrnnee of seholars internsted in Irish litnraturn, history, polities and culture will takn plaee today through Oet. 19 at the Cnntnr for Continuing Educa­tion. 
Tlw NotrP Damn Snsquieen­tnnnial Irish meetings combine the Univnrsity's annu:.tl Ward­Phillips lm:ture, tlw Notre Dame St~squicentnnnial .Jonathan Swift and Irish Studins Confer­Pnee and tlw annual Midwest­Prn American Conference of Irish Studins. 
Tlw Consulatn GPiwral of Ire­land and morn than a hundrnd tHiueational institutions will be among tlw participants. 
Tlw principal lncturns of the nwntings include: 
•Miduwl Dtd>ortn of the Uni­VI~rsity of Nnw Hampshire will 
The Best Move 
speak on "Swifi, God and Power.," tonight at 7:15p.m. 
•Margaret 
Anne Doody of Vanderbilt University will speak on "Swifi and Homance," Thursday, Oet. 17 at 4:15p.m. 

•Charles 
Bensen, keeper of early printed books at Trinity College Dublin, will speak on "Freshest Adviee and Dying Words: Eighteenth Century Broadsheets in the Trinity Col­lege Library," Thursday at 8 p.m. 

•Carole 
Fabricant of the University of California at Hiverside, will speak on "Swift and the Shape of Irish History," Friday, Oet. 1 R at 4:15 p.m. 

•Edward 
McParland will speak on "Edward Lovet Pearee and thn New Junta for Archi­tecture in Early Eighteenth Century Ireland," Friday at 8 p.m. 



You·n Ever Make 
Convenient Student Living 
We're just minutes from Notre Dame, University Park Mall, the toll road and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community with spacious, well-kept grounds has a lot of appeal to the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­gency maintenance service . . . and we have an activities program that 
Includes free aeroblca clauaa, social functions, team sports and much, much more. If you're looking for the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we11 show you comfortable, affordable apartment living! 
Efficiencies from $260 + Planned Adivhies Program 
+ Beautilul Clubhouse & Pool

1-Bedrooms from $275 
+ ~Jr Condhioning + Gable TV Available

2-Bedrooms from $335 
+ 
Disposal + Laundry Rooms 

+ 
Basketball Court



272-1880 
+ Picnic Tables &Grills 

Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9-7, + Volleyball Court + Gazebo Sat. 1()-.4 and Sun. 12-4 + 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance Service 
rtllCKORij ~~ DlLLAqE 
Conveniently located on Hickory Road, just north of Edison Road 
•Seamus 
Deane of University College Dublin will speak on "Virtue and Travel: Swift, Ire­land and the Enlightenment," Saturday, Oct. 19 at 10 a.m. 

•A 
plenary session on "Angle­Irish Relations: Models and Metaphors" will be led by Gearoid O'Tuathaigh of Univer­sity College Galway, Saturday at 


4:45 p.m. 
There will also be numerous seminars on Irish topics rang­ing from "The Huddy and the Fair: A symbolic Study of Patrick's Meeting with Leogaire's Daughters at the Well" to "Academic Analysis and U.S. Policy-making on Ire­land and Northern Ireland." 
All events will take place in the Center for Continuing Edu­cation. Additional information may be obtained by calling 239­6691. 
page 3 
SMC workshop teaches students self-defense 
By ERIN BROWN 
News Writer 
With the help of a dummy named "Guido," Saint Mary's students participated in a hands-on self defense workshop given Tuesday by defense experts Dan and Marie Lena as part of Safety Awareness Week at Saint Mary's. 
The husband and wife team showed student participants how to physically resist an at­tacker, but stressed that self­esteem and dignity are the keys to successful defense. 
The stunts ranged from firm verbal resistance to actually kicking and striking an at­tacker. The workshop lasted nearly three hours and was at­tended by approximately 30 students. 
The couple demonstratnd the techniques by putting on short performances in which Dan played the role of an attacker or, as he put it, "a real jerk." 
The performances continued with Dan physically harassing Marie, causing her to retaliate physically. 
Although they promote the idea of passive resistance, the Lenas said that this approach is not always successful, and physical self defense may be­come necessary. This is where their methods become most useful, they said. 
Marie demonstrated several techniques on Dan. She showed how to forcefully push an at­tacker in the chest or collar­bone area to create distance between them. She also demon­strated a move in which she 
Sign-ups for Auditions Friday, Oct. 11th-18th Rm. 215 ofSt. Ed's 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 17, to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 
lunged at Dan, struek him in the face, and poked him in the eyes. 
The two also performed a move in which Marie struck Dan on the side of thn head, and kicked him "below the belt." 
"Dan and Marie's enthusiasm is really contagious," said Saint Mary's Director of Hesidencn Life Mary Kellnher, who watched their demonstration. 
The Lenas travel around the country teaching their methods to over 60,000 students each year, most of whom are women in high sehool or eollege. The Lenas both have black belts in karate and have dedicated the past several years to promoting self-defense. 
Together they founded a na­tional organization ealled Peo­ple Against Hape and have writ­ten several motivational books. Dan has been teaching the workshops for about 15 years, and Marie joined him about 12 years ago. 
The eouple teaches defense techniques with a focus on establishing the correct attitude in order to promote safety through self-esteem. They want to show that everyone is a spe­cial individual with the right to preserve his or her dignity, they said. 
The Lnnas said their self-de­fense workshop is mainly to promote self-esteem and show people that they are "not doormats." According to the couple, "preserving dignity is the most important thing." 
Dan and Marie will continue their travels with appearances in Chicago and the surrounding area. 
The 43-year-old Paee became registrar at Louisiana Tech in 19R2. lie was assistant regis­trar at Texas A&M from 1979­82 and was assistant dean of admissions and records at La­mar University from 1971-79. 
lie is a member of the Ameri­can, Southern, and Louisiana Associations of Collegiate Reg­istrars and Admissions Officers, and is the immediate past president of the latter. 
Pace and his wife, Catherine, have one daughter, Leann, a sophomore in high school. Catherine Paee currently teaches mathematics at Louisiana Tech. 
~*****************! 
Jt. RAISE $500 ... $1000 ... $1500 Jt. 
: FOOLPROOF : 
: FUNDRAISING :
.. .. 
,.. For your lratermty, soronty. leam or ,.. 
Jt.  other campus orgamzatton  Jt.  
:  Absolutely no investment required!  :  
Jt.  ACT NOW POII'III CIWIU TO Will A  Jt.  
Jt. ...Jt.  WIIIWI CHIN UO PUULOIIS Plllllt . CALL 1-800-950-8472, ext. 50  Jt...Jt.  

:*****************~ 

............ ,...,..,,.Jt-·, .-,...J'T" 


ENGINEERING ACTIVITIES FAIR 
WEDNESDAY,OCTOBERI6 
4·6PM 

LOBBY OF CUSHING HALL 
REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE FOLLOWING ENGINEERING SOCIETIES WILL BE PRESENT TO ANSWER QUESTIONS AND PROVIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERSHIP: 
AIAA  IEEE  JEC  
AICHE  NSBE  TAU BETA PI  
ASCE  SAME  CHI EPSILON  
ASME  SWE  ETA KAPPA NU  

PI TAU SIGMA 

FREE PIZZA FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS 
sponsored by the Joint Engineering Council 
page 4 
Crime 
continued from page 1 
students must act responsibly and keep in mind the rights of their neighbors. 
When a resident is being too loud, "We'll issue a warning and ask that the resident cuts down on the noise," said Kyle. Marciniak and Kyle concurred that the officers will not look for violations unless the crowd is out of control or will not co­operate. 
"You can help us protect you," said Marciniak. "You don't have to be buddy-buddy with the officers, but at least be civil." 
The police department is re­sponsible for the 104,000 citi­zens of South Bend as well as members of the Notre Dame community, according to Marciniak. He added that the best protection cannot be pro­vided without full cooperation and a recognition of roles and responsibilities. 
ND Committee donates $800 for tree 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame's Sesquicentennial sub­committee on exhibitions and permanent legacy has donated $800 to the University's de­partment of landscape services to purchase a yellowwood tree for the campus Main Quad. 
The money was raised both from subcommittee funds and from the donations of individual members in the hope that it could launch a nature conser­vancy program for Notre Dame, according to Wendy Clauson Schlereth, the University's archivist and chair of the subcommittee. 
Even with the recent concern for the safety of off-campus students, Kirk and Marciniak agreed that there does not seem to be a rise in the number of crimes committed against students. 
"The number of incidents in­volving students is down from this time last year," Kirk said, referring to the two reported incidents of violent crimes that have occurred so far this year, as compared to 15 last year. 
"Students are safer on cam­pus because it's a more con­fined setting," said Caldwell. Marciniak added that because people live in a more violent so­ciety today, they are always at risk. 
In preparation for the upcom­ing break, Marciniak suggested that off-campus students call 284-9311 to ask about the HomeWatch program. Accord­I 
-
ing to Johnson, on-and off­
campus students can make sure Jim Caldwell (center), administrative assistant to the South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan, answers a question at their windows are secure and the open forum on off-campus crime and student-community relations Tuesday. 
that their doors are locked. 
As envisioned by the sub­committee, the Notre Dame na­ture conservancy program would have a role in the Uni­versity's Sesquicentennial cele­bration and would continue after 1992 to assist the work of the University's division of sup­port services in the historical restoration and expansion of the campus landscape. 
The subcommittee has pro­posed that the University con­tract a professional arborist to prepare an inventory of impor­tant campus trees, identifying and classifying them, assessing their health and the suitability of their locations, and recom­mending removal, replacement, and addition of various species. 
Donors to the conservancy would be given an opportunity to select a species and a site from a previously prepared "want" list, and trees subsi­dized by the conservancy would be identified by permanent markers which would include donor's names and planting dates. 
Two Notre Dame trees, both on the Main Quad. are the largest of their kind growing in Indiana. They are the paper birch between LaFortune Stu­dent Center and the statue of the Sacred Heart, and the sh­ingle oak 15 yards southwest of LaFortune. 

Flanagan encourages participation in Plunge 
By STEVEN KRAUSS 
News Writer 
Rachel Flanagan was on hand at Tuesday night's Hall Presi­dents' Council (HPC) meeting to extol the virtues of the Urban Plunge program, and to en­courage people to partake in it. 
The Urban Plunge, Flanagan said, is a "48 hour immersion in an inner city location" which will "help people get an idea of how the not-so better half lives." 
The program will take place 
The Observermm Farish 
over Christmas break, and costs $10 -$15. Flanagan said the plunge won't interfere with college football bowl games, and added that she's "hoping to get the largest turnout yet." 
Also, Adrienne Briggs an­nounced that Saint Marv's is going to have a campus ·wide dance sometime next semester. The dance will take the place of one individual dance for each dorm, and promises, according to Briggs, lots of "crazy events" for everyone to enjoy. 
The Observer 

Wednesday, October 16,1991 page 5 
Chicago professor wins Nobel Prize 
STOCKHOLM. Swnden (AI') -Amnrican Honald Coase won t lw No be I econo m i!~s p rizn Tuesday for his long-ignored nxplanations of how market nconomins arn shapnd by eon­tracts-laws and property rights. 
In awarding thn $1 million p ri z1~. The Hoy al Swedish Aeadnmy of Seiences said C:oasn's thnories "are among thn most dynamic fon~es behind rnsnareh in economic science and jurisprudence today." 
The British-horn Coase (pronounced Cose). SO, is a profnssor mneritus at the Uni­versity of Chieago Law School, wlwre hn is aetively engaged in researeh. lie bncame the 14th economist from the University of Chieago to win tlw economics prize. 
Coase, who was vacationing in southern France. could not immndiately be reached by the academy for formal notification he had won the prize. 
uCOaSH explains the structure of a market e<:onomy," said As­sar Lindbeck, chairman of the prize committee. "lie tries to explain why we have firms, how companies evolve and the rea­son why they do or don't ex­paml." 
"The largest practical use for his studies is that people better ean understand how the world works and why." Lindbeck said. 
Before Coase's pioneering work, theories on how the economy worked only included production and transport costs. But the expense of signing and completing a deal, making phone ealls, hiring lawyers and administering an organization were neglected. 
Those factors -called transaction costs -account for a considerable share of the total use of resources in the eeonomy. 
Coase's theories on transac­tion costs grew out of his work in the 1930s, when he toured American factories as a student from the London School of Economics. 
But until the 1970s and 1980s, micro-economists de­emphasized the importance of such costs, and Coase was vir­tually alone in his efforts to use them in economic analysis. 
His other big contribution was developing the theory of property rights and how they affect economic success or fail­ure. 
"One conclusion of Coase's work is that when rights are not well-defined we do not get an effective use of resources," said Karl-Goran Maler, a mem­ber of the prize committee. 
As an example, he cited natu­ral resources, saying they are often mismanaged because rights to their use are not spelled out. 


Iraqi oil sale and food purchases approved 
UNITEf> NATIONS (AP) -The medicine and emergency ports. hungry because the United 
U.N. Sanctions Committee civilian supplies. but has bri-"We hive provided the proce-States and its allies refuse to lift approvml a detailed plan Tues-died at having the sale and the dures and framework for an sanctions. day for a $J.(, billion Iraqi oil proceeds controlled by the U.N. Iraqi oil sale, now it is up to The sanctions were imposed sale and thn use of the revenues Security Council. them to decide to pump oil or after Iraq invaded Kuwait in to buy humanitarian supplies Iraqi diplomats were not im-not," said Sanctions Committee August 1990, lea<ijng to the Gulf and aid. mediately available. for com-chairman Peter Hohenfellner War and widespread dev-
Iraq still has not said whether ment about whether they would said after Tuesday's meeting. astation and defeat for Iraq. it will cooperate with the U.N. accept the plan. which requires Iraq says the plan violates its Sales and purchases could plan. Baghdad says it needs the U.N. control of all revenue and sovereignty and humiliates its begin as soon as Iraq agrees to oil revnnue to pay for food, approval of all sales and im-people. It says Iraqis are going the sales. 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.speculated the theme of the 
• 
~Peat Marwick 
Management Consultants 

KPMG Peat Marwick Management Information System Consulting 
KPMG Peat Marwick's Government Services and Technology & Operations practices will be hosting 
,

an infonnational presentation and reception Thursday, October 17. The presentation will be held from 
7:00 p. m. to 9:00 p. m. in the Alumni Room ofthe Morris Inn 
All candidates interviewing with us on Friday, October 18 are strongly encouraged to attend this presentation. We would also like to invite any additional candidates interested in a career in ~nsulting to attend the presentation. Candidates should have one of the following degrees: 
• 
BA -Arts and Letters, Computer Applications (CAPP) 

• 
BBA -Management, Management Infonnation Systems 

• 
BS -Electrical Engineering, Computer Sequence 

• 
BS -Mathematics, Computer Concentration 

• 
MBA, Computer related undergraduate 


Contact Career and Placement Setvices for more infonnation about K.PMG Peat Marwick. 
KPMG Peat Marwick is an equal opportunity employer. 
Pope draws small crowds in Brazil 
BHASILIA, Brazil (AP) -Pope John Paul II drew an un­expectedly small erowd at a Mass in Brazil's capital Tues­day, tlum flew to a mining cen­ter where tension between Ho­man Catholies and Protestants is rising. 
Speaking to about 200,000 people, including President Fernando Collor de Mello and his Cabinet, the pope urged "politicians, technicians, ad­ministrators, teachers, public servants and businessmen" of this government center to "be the light and strength for a new society." 
Brasilia was founded in the late 1950s to attract Brazilians to populate uninhabited central areas. More than 1. 9 million people live in the area. 
Oscar Niemeyer, a militant Communist architect, con­structed many of the landmark modernistic buildings, including the circular cathedral. The 82-year-old architect was brought back to construct a sloping tent roof and altar for the papal Mass. 
Brazilian officials had pre­dicted a crowd of 800,000 thanks to a national school holiday. The turnout appeared to be lower because of the high cost of transportation and re­duced interest in the pope's second trip to the world's most populous Catholic country. 
Large grassy sections of the esplanade, lying between soar­ing ministerial buildings, were empty. 
After the Mass, John Paul greeted Collor, who is divorced and remarried. The president did not take communion but brought along his wife. Rosane. and his elder son, Arnon. 
Collor has canceled a trip to his home state of Alagoas, which the pope plans to visit Saturday. Brazilian media 
pope's speech -the-family ­
might have been too controver­,sial for the president. 
John Paul later flew to Goia­nia, 100 miles to the southwest, a major farming center where tensions have flared between Catholics and a growing Protestant evangelical move­ment. 
The town's Catholic bishop asked police over the weekend to clear trucks carrying loud­speakers that blared Protestant criticism of the Catholic Church for not allowing divorce or birth control. 
The Hyde Park Booksellers Present the HumanitiesPLUS BOOK FAIR in the Midwest's Largest Center for Books! 
Chicago's leading booksellers invite you to browse through the newest titles in an incredible range of academic fields, as well as a one-of -a-kind collection of the rmest used, rare, arid out-of-print books! 
. . . .. . . . . . . . 

Call Carol See at (312) 702-8729. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 16,19991 
page 6 
U.S. asked to offset financial losses in Germany 
MAINZ, Germany (AP) ­German leaders who for years demanded that U.S. troops withdraw are now asking the United States to help offset fi­nancial losses from the massive pullout. 
Rudolf Scharping, governor of Rhineland-Palatinate, said 
Swaggart steps down temporarily 
BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) ­Television evangelist Jimmy Swaggart, who allegedly picked up a prostitute last week in Cal­ifornia, is temporarily relin­quishing leadership of his min­istry, his son said Tuesday. 
Donnie Swaggart told min­istry employees at the Swaggart Family Worship Center that he will temporarily be head administrator of Jimmy Swag­gart Ministries while his father undergoes professional coun­seling and medical care. 
After "a time of healing and counseling.... Dad will once again assume the pulpit at Family Worship Center," he said in a statement a ministry spokesman later gave to re­porters kept outside the 7,000­seat assembly center. 
He said all crusades would be cancelled and that his father and mother, Frances, were near exhaustion. 
The statement said the evan­gelical empire's board of direc­tors will be restructured and a business board will be estab­lished, but Jimmy and Frances Swaggart won't be on it. "They will serve in an advisory role," Donnie Swaggart said. 
Donnie Swaggart met with ministry employees for 20 min­utes. He asked them to pray for his father's "speedy recovery that Dad may continue to do what the Lord called him to do and to not give any information to the media." Reporters didn't see his parents at the worship center. 
The elder Swaggart's latest troubles began when he was stopped by police in Indio, Calif., on Friday for traffic vio­lations. Rosemary Garcia, 31, of Indio, said she was with Swaggart. She said she's a prostitute and Swaggart asked for sex. 
Swaggart wasn't charged with any sex-related offenses. 
The scandal is the latest in a 
series of setbacks for the once­
powerful Swaggart organiza­
tion. 
In 1988, Swaggart resigned from the Assemblies of God, the nation's largest Pentecostal de­nomination, after a rival minis­ter released photos of him with a New Orleans prostitute. Swaggart tearfully admitted to an unspecified sin. 
Swaggart faces a series of 
lawsuits by his creditors and a 
$10 million jury verdict against 
him and others for defaming 
rival preacher Marvin Gorman. 
Also, Arbitron ratings for 
July, the most recent period 
surveyed, indicate Swaggart's 
weekly show was being seen in 
403,000 households -down 
from 455,000 households in 
May. 
Before the 1988 scandal, 
Swaggart had the top program 
among televangelists, reaching 
2.1 million households. In July, Robert Schuller held the top spot with 1. 3 million house­holds. Swaggart ranked num­ber seven. 


Tuesday that he plans to travel now that it's happening, they poured into Rhineland-Palati­many. The Pentagon plans to to Washington on Oct. 27 to realize the cuts will be costly. nate each year as a result of reduce that to 100,000 by 1995. express his concern. The U.S. American troops. The state's transportation and 
military is the state's third­With about 130,000 American economics minister, Rainer largest employer, providing jobs troops and family members, But that's changing with the Bruederle, said the state would for 22,000 Germans. Rhineland-Palatinate has one of East-West accords on troop like to see "private American 
Germans have been anxious the heaviest concentrations of withdrawals. Before the start of investors" take part in that and to see NATO forces cut back America Gis of all German the year, about 250,000 other projects. over the past four decades. But states. About $909 million are American soldiers were in Ger-
Accounting Majors 

e ''Big SOC~ 
Nol~nger 

to ce · cation 
As a member of Aetna's Internal Audit department you can qualify for CPA licensing in Connecticut. 
Aetna's Internal Audit department offers impressive career oppmtunities, an exceptional professiona1 development program, intenmtional and domestic travel, direct involvement with top management, and special ('Onsulting and fraud investigation assignments. A position in Internal Audit ('an lead to key positions at Aetna within 3-5 years. 
Aetna was recently named by Fortune magazine and 1f1e Wall Street }ounwl as one of America's most admired companies. Our outstanding compensa­tion, benefits and training programs were major reasons why. 
We are looking for individuals with proven analytical ability, effective com­munication skills, initiative, flexibility and creativity to join our large staff of audit prof{.>ssionals at our corporate headqumtPrs in Hmtfonl, Connecticut. We'd like Lo meet you and learn more about your expectations. Look for our information sessions on the following dates: 
.,.. lnfonnation Session 
Thursday, October 1 7 7:00p.m. Dooley Room La Fortune Student Center 
Check with your Placement Office for further details. 



Aetna is an Equal Opportunity. Affirmative Act1on Employer 
-~­ ---~  -~  
Wednesday, October 16,1991  The Observer  page 7  
Senator Byrd  Hill quietly accepts  Public views divided  
opposes NOHappointment Anita  Thomas' cMAN, Okla. (APJ -Hill quietly accepte onfelassd not s irmation room. She said she had een the debate, and re­ on harassment issue (APJ -Americans diiTered the Sf'Ctllld round of hoarings 
ClarenWASIIINCTON (;\I'J confirl>ndaring "I lwliow Anita Hill," Court,Son. Hobnrt Byrd, 1>-W.Va., op­outcoJHISPd Clanmcn Thomas' nomi­othersnation Ttwsday based on h!lr aboutaiiPgations of snxual harass­workplace.nwnt. Byrd also accused "TheThomas of arrogance in his re­ment sponsn to tlw allngations. logue,Byrd was the first senator to Tuesdsay lw was switrhing his posi­honHltion hncausn of tlw wnnkend standinhnarings. l.atnr, I>PmotTat Bob She <;raham of Florida said lw had specil1hPPn IPaning toward Thomas vote.hut was p.-rsuadnu to oppose ··r eahim by tlw tnstimony. lettersl>aninl Moynihan of Nnw York ceivedrt>IPasnd a statPnumt saying the througsanw. And thrPn of the 13 ar11 eoIJPntotTats who hall supportl~u she sThomas hdorP Hill's allnga­womentions surfacnd -Harry Hrdd the saand Hkhard Bryan of Nnvada and saiand .JosPph l.iPiwrman of Con­thoy eo ce Thomas' mation to the SuprP-me and said she hoped thme would not sj.op from complaining harassment in the issue of sexual harassis now part of a dia­" Hill told reporters ay night outside her with her mother g next to her. dedined to comment eally about the Senate nnot tell you how many and cards I have refrom people hout the country who ncerned about this.aid. "Women, men, who have experienced me thing have written d now for the first timuld talk about it.  pHatoto ree IHft thTueback her tsaid s­StufiliHd tograetly odoor gan. Asiand seemat the ­A tto the a few " Toddents the plesson. e "Shthey'l dly ,said "no comment" porters' questions as she e building. sday was Hill's first day in the classroom sincrip to Washington. She he felt fine. dents inside the room with reporters and pho· phers promptly and qui­pened their books as thfl was closed and class be­de from the reporters photographers, it was ingly business as usual law sehool. elevision set was turned Senate debate, but only students watched. d Hieks, one of the stu­in Hill's 11rst class. said rofessor got right to the e s<Lid, 'I don't think l ever leave me alone,'  sharply over out how Clarence was raeially motivated. Thomas' eonfirmation to the ";\s a black pnrson and as a U.S. Supreme Court might af­female, I've bnen intl'rnally torn fect the nation's awareness ol' by the hearings," she said. "I e sexual harassment. Some held reeognize that sexual harass­out nope his ordeal would make ment is a heinous behavior but him a better judge. I ean't help feeling some uneasn "If I were Judge Thomas, I that thern may bn radal under­would do all the homework and tones to the proceedings." I would make myself the best Kansas Gov . .Joan Finney, a judge ever on that Supreme Democrat in IH~r first year in Court," said Irene French, the offiee, feared the episode might mayor of Merriam, Kan. "I cause lasting damage to the na­think he can do that." tion. She was one of dozens of "It leaves a distasteful im­people interviewed by Assoei­pression in the minds of the ated Press reporters Tuesday electorate and may further dis­night after the Senate's 52-48 courage voter participation in vote to confirm Thomas. The the politieal process," she said. vote followed three days of Carol Konek, an associato hearings into allegations by dean at Wichita State Univer­Anita llill, a former employee, sity, said: "It's a bitter day. I that Thomas had sexually ha­would havo hoped to be jubilant rassed her. about having another black jus­Frances Conley, who sparked lien on the Suprnme Court." a national debate when she re­ 
nPrtkut -PrHIPd up voting "Andagainst him as tlw nomirwn I hoptlwon ronfirrnation on a 52-48 diller oVOtf'. ward.Byrd dnnourH'Pd Thomas· dr~­sue annwanor during quPstioning anu not stop lwre." said tlu• nomirHH' attnmpt('(l to Earliintimidatt~ opporwnts with a to hergrourulif'SS aecusation of Univerrarism. sehool, t(~aehing"That kind of arrogancn will contrarwwr gnt my votn," Byrd said. law. TliP said Thomas, whom Bush minutappointPd to tlw Court of Ap­approvndpPals last yPar and to tlw nominaSuprPmP Court this ynar. dis­Hill,pI ayP d a tP nqw r anw n t that SenateraiiPd into qu.-stion his ability and a to sPrVP as a j udgn. audieneeByrd also chastisnd thn Snn­sexuallatP .Judidary Committnn, par­wlwn sticularly tlw IJpmocrats, for the U.S.failing to qtwstion Thomas EdueamorP rlosPiy. Emplo"I sal tlwn~ and wondnrnd Commiwho was going to ask him mentlytough q Jlf'Slions." Byrd said. At thByrd. tlw l'ornwr majority TuesdaIPadPr, is pn~sidPnl pro tnm of a sidelhP SPnatn. liP had bf'nn  that's important. What is that none of this wilthers from eoming for­This is an important is­d the dialogue should er Today, Hill resigned classroom at the sity of Oklahoma law classes icts and commercial he last dass ended es before the Senate Thomas' tion. 35, testified before the .Judiciary Committee national television that she was y harassed by Thomas he worked for him at Department of tion and the Equal ynwnt Opportunity ssion. Thomas vehe· d~miElS the allegations. e end of the school day y, Hill was whisked out door of the law school  then l Hicks "Shwas hadn'she'd Davlaw sbriefln turn, Hill ato retadmispotliTuesday. A gthe Studeon vaschooThomas. The most, respeprofessor that uncongaged  told us she missed us," said. e was not herself, that obvious. It was like she t prepared as much, like been away for a while." id Swank, dean of the chool. said he has talked y with Hill since her !'(~­only to say hello. He said nd the school are trying urn to normal, although tting that the national ght was on the school roup calling themselves Civilized American nts of Law put out fliers rious tables in the law l to show support for statement said that if not all, students ct and support Hill as a and a person but many remain vinced Thomas ever en· in the alleged behavior.  signed from Stanford Univer­Instead. despite a black and a sity's Medical School citing woman on the bench, the eourt years of sexual harassment may. be poised to attack from her male colleagues, said women's rights and dvil rights the outcome will discourage in "the most brutal assault we women from complaining about eould ever have imagirwd," slw sexual harassment. said. "There's going to be tremen­Still, she tried to remain san­dous backlash in the next few guine that Thomas learned a weeks," said the 50-year-old lesson. Conley, who recently took back "I hope the suffering he has her May resignation after eol­endured has helped him recon­leagues convinced her things nect with the suiTering of other wouldn't change without her Americans," Konek said. "I help. hope it has deepmwd his corn­"Women's issues in this re­passion or given him compas­gard are going to again be sion that he nnvnr exhibited to­trivialized to an incredible ex­ward anyone but himself during tent. Women are going to again the hearings." · retreat into ... silence," said Alexander Williams, Mary­Conley, one of the nation's first land's attorney for Prinee Ge­female brain surgeons. orge's County, said he antici­Shirley Mays, an assistant law pated that Thomas would professor at Capital University emerge from the proenss a in Columbus, Ohio, is black and wisnr man. opposed Thomas' confirmation "Thomas is going to be a bet­before the allegations surfaced. tnr judge, a more broad-based But she had mixed feelings judge because of thn experience about Thomas' contention that he has gone through," he said.  
t·ouniPd prPviously as unde­ chur ch and state and the  ------­ 
ridPd hut said on tlw SP!Hltn  Confirmed  rights  of criminal suspects.  SENATE VOTE CONFIRMING THOMAS  
lloor that lw had intt•rHlnd to  "It's  a sad day for civil  
s 11 p p o r t T h o m as Ill' fort~ t h n  rights , for the Supreme Court  REPUBLICANS  
snxual harassnwnt aliPgations continued  from page 1  and  for the American  
arosn. strengtlw ns an already solid  peopl e," said Halph Neas, of  
In a long and irnpassiorwd consnrva tivo majority on the  the L eadership Conference  
spPPrh, Byrd PX(Hessnd court, w here liberals will be  on Ci vil Hights, a coalition of  
am a z P nw n t that Thomas, a outnumb ered seven to two. The  180  organizations that  
rourt of appPals judge, said he court is l ikely to continue mov­ opposed Thomas.  •confirm 
did not PVP!l listl'n when Hill ing to th e right on issues such  
pn~snntnd lwr allegations to the as abor tion, separation of  Wit h the outcome in doubt  Reject  
.ludidary ComrnittiH1.  ENTIRE SENATE  
• 1.3000 lb1 OF l}ffil]3 ~OOU' 



~OOliJim 1N/@1],~ 
• 
INDIVIDUAL EXERCISE PROGRAMS BUILD /REDUCE 

• 
ICARIAN EXERCISE EQUIPMENT 

• 
AEROBICS • 35 CLASSES PER WEEK INCLUDING REEBOK STEP AEROBICS CAM STAR CIRCUIT TRAINING EQUIP 

• 
LOCKER, SHOWER, DRESSING ROOMS 

• 
TANNING (ADDITIONAL) 

• 
SPORTSWEAR (ADDITIONAL) 


©&illd1 ~®W 8~~ 
M-F 6:00AM ·10:00 PM SAT 8:00 AM • 6:00 PM SUN 12:00 P'" ~·00 PM 
POWERHOUSE GYM. 130 WEST EDISON ROAD • MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 
until the final hours, Vice President Dan Quayle rushed back from a politieal trip to Ohio to sit as the presiding officer and cast a tie­breaking vote if necessary. It wasn't needed. 
The visitors' galleries were packed but hushed as 
NO GIMMICKS· ~ 
EXTRA INCOME NOW! 
ENVElOPE SlUFFING-$600 •$800 eve<y week • 
Fr•DIIIIIII: SASE to 
lllookalntamatlonal, Inc. 
P.O. Bac 6110605 •Orlando, fl3286S 


Saint Mary's College 
Information Meeting TONIGHT 7:00p.m. 

304 Haggar College Center -SMC Newcomers Welcome -Applications Distributed 
senators rose, one by one, to cast their votes. 
It was an uneasy decision for many senators, foreing them to judge between the irreconcil­ably different stories of aceuser and accused. 
Thomas won confirmation with support from 41 of the Senate's 43 Republicans and 11 Democrats: Sens. Sam Nunn, Wyche Fowler, Charles Robb, .J. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
IRELAND 
PROGRAM 
DEMOCRATS 
The Clb&erv81/Brendan Aegar 

James Exon, Alan Dixon, Riehard Shelby, .John Breaux, .J. Bennett .Johnston, David Boren, Ernest Hollings and Dennis DeConcini. 
Sens. James .Jeffords and Bob Packwood cast tho only Hepub­lican votes against him. 
It was the closest vote for a suecessful Supreme Court nom­inee since 1888 when Lucius Lamar went onto the beneh on a 32-28 vote. 
Dissent 
continued from page 1 
women, she added. 
Despite the controversy of the trials, Kmiec: said that he be­lieved the judgt~ment of Thomas. would eventually return to his qualilkations for the position. Thomas should bn evaluated by his efforts to overcome poverty and enjoy a suecessful legal eareer, explained Kmiec. 
This type of evaluation should "earry the day," he concluded. The 52-48 Senate vote which appoints Thomas to the posi­tion of Supreme Court justiee confirms Kmiec's statement. 
The Observer 

page 8 

The Observermm Farish 

Cocoa and postcards 
Members of the ND Alumni Association give out free hot chocolate during the sale of new postal cards honoring the· sesquicentennial of the University of Notre Dame Tuesday. 
Algeria sets date for its elections 
ALGIERS, Algeria (AP) -Al­geria's first multi-party legisla­tive elections, postponed in June when the government de­clared a state of emergency, will be held Dec. Z6. President Chadli Bendj edid announced Tuesday. 
In a· nationally broadcast ad­dress, Bendjedid appealed for calm and warned against a re­peat of the campaign unrest that led to the cancellation of the vote in the first place. 
"The state will accept from no one unrestrained behavior outside the constitution and the law," he warned. 
It was Bendjedid's first public appearance since he declared the state of emergency June 5 to quell riots by Muslim funda­mentalists protesting a new electoral law. The elections had been set for June 27. 
Bendjedid dissolved the gov­ernment and ordered a crack­down on the Islamic Salavation Front, the group that organized the protests. 
The state of emergency was lifted at the end of September. 
On Monday, the National Assembly, made up solely of members of the ruling National Liberation Front, drastically amended a new electoral law that had been designed to sat­isfy some of the fundamental­ists' complaints. 
The law increases the parlia­ment from 295 to 373 seats and redraws electoral districts, but it still favors the ruling party. 
Government sources also said Bendjedid would ask the coun­try's highest court to arbitrate another controversial aspect of the law-a man's right to vote in place of his wife. 
Prime Minister Sid Ahmed Ghozali tried vainly to suppress the article, saying it does not respect the constitution accord­ing an "individual and personal vote ... to each Algerian." 
Women's organizations and numerous opposition parties have denounced the proxy vote. 
The Islamic Salvation Front won regional elections in June 1990, the first multi-party vot­ing since the North African na­tion of 24 million people gained independence from France in 1962. 

Wednesday, October 16,1991 
More foreign students attending U.S. colleges 
NEW YORK (AP) -The num­ber of foreign students attend­ing U.S. campuses rose by 5.3 percent to a record 407,500 in the last academic year, includ­ing a 42 percent jump in East­ern Europeans, according to estimates released Tuesday. 
China remained the leading nation of origin, and Asians ac­counted for 56 percent of for­eign student rolls among U.S. college and universities, the In­stitute of International Educa­tion reported in its annual for­eign student census. 
Students from Eastern Euro­pean nations and the Soviet Union, still few in number, had the biggest percentage in­crease: 4,800 compared with 3,400 in 1989-90. "It is encouraging that the number of students from coun­tries making the transition to democratic pluralism and mar­ket-oriented economies is ris­ing," said Richard Krasno, president and chief executive officer of the institute. 
But students from Latin American, African and Arab nations declined. The numbers from Jordan and Nigeria each were down by more than 17 percent, and Saudi Arabia and Lebanon more than 12 percent. 
The decline in Arab students was due to the long-term slump in oil prices making study abroad more difficult, said Marianthi Zikopoulos, editor of "Open Doors", the institute publication that produces the survey. The impact of the Gulf War, if any, won't show up until next year's survey, she said. 
The findings were based on a survey in fall 1990 of 2,879 U.S. post-secondary schools. The study, conducted with grant support from the U.S. In­formation Agency, included only foreign students on temporary visas. 
'U.S. colleges and universities enrolled some 14.9 million stu­dents in 1990. according to lat­est federal estimates. 
Among other findings: 
•The 
top five places of origin for foreign students were all Asian: China, 39,600; Japan, 36,600; Taiwan, 33,500; India, 28,900, and Korea, 23,400. 

•Miami-Dade 
Community Col­lege enrolled the most foreign students: 5,757. The University of Southern California had 3,886; University of Texas­Austin, 3,867; Boston Univer­sity, 3,633; University of Wis­consin-Madison, 3,565; Univer­sity of Pennsylvania, 3,122; Columbia University, 3,077; Ohio State University, 3,021; University of Illinois-Urbana, 2,967, and University of Cali­fornia, Los Angeles, 2,921. 

•Business 
was the favorite major for foreign students for the second-straight year, with enrollments of 79,670, up 5 percent. Engineering, the most popular major among foreign students for the 40 previous years, was second with 73,620, up 0.3 percent. 


American Red Cross + 

"To Thank You Notre Dame/ St. Mary's... " 
CELEBRATE WITH PAPA JOHN'S ~
4 
______________________________________________________________, _______________________________________________________,.._. ,__,.__
WED ·,.BURS· FBI· SA,.· SUN... OC,.OBER 16·17·18-19·20 
Beat the 4:00 -7:59 Lg 2-topping is same price as your time of call 
Clock 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------·-------------,_,-=-----------·----·~
Beat 
the 8:00 -11:50 2-Lg 2 -toppings are same price as your time of call Clock 
t--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,·---------------------------·--~ 
Every 5th caller receives 2 free Cokes (diet, reg., Sprite or rootbeer) 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---------------------------­
Every lOth caller receives free order of breadstix 
~~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------·--------------­
~ nc\ see us.. ho\ns r 1\-L, '5' Lr \S
s'o""" a ens, \c.e'j c~& te9\s\e \0 ~\t. \(ee "\»09'\ }ou" s~eo\su\t 
~ ~ \tee\' ~~~~. W.· ~ 
'l' ~ '~~.r ~ NEW HOURS ~ M-TH 11:00 am til1 :00 am 
FRI-SAT 11:00 am til3:00 am SUN 12:00 pm tiJ 12:00 am Attn: Faculty & Staffliving within our delivery area -Mention your employer (ND/SMC) and receive 25% upon order (NOT VAUD WITH OTHER SPECIALS) 
FREE DELIVERLBt~ 271-1177 
• ,••••• •••• •••••• " •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • 0 •••• ••••• ••• ••• 0 ••• 0 0 • ••••• • 0 • 0 •••••• ••••• •• 0 •••••••• •.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·•••••·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·~·.···· ••.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.-..·.·.·.••••••••••••••••••• •••• •••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
... -.. -··"'­
,tJ \1 •• u ''-'"'"' '-'. •

,' ' I 
Wednesday, October 16,1991 The Observer page 9 
SECURITY BEAT

Poor nations ask world bankers for aid 
BANGKOK, Thailand (API ­Developing nations beseeched world bankers Tuesday to re­member the needs of Third World eountrins as the interna­tional linaneial community fo­r.usPd primarily on how to re­vive the sickly Soviet Union. 
Tho calls wen~ made in the opening snssion of thn thren­day annual convention of the World Bank and International Mont~tary Fund. tlw lt~ading li­nanders of underdeveloped na­tions. 
The IMF also approved the application of Albania, Europe's poorest country. as the 156th nwmbnr of the organization. 
During thn session, U.S. Trnasury Snr.rntary Nicholas Brady and other Western offi­cials promisnd to encourage neonornie and political rnform in thn Soviet Union, which is st1eking full IMF membership. 
Brady said the Soviets need fundanHmtal assistance that gons well beyond typical eco­nomic development programs. lie said private businesses should participate too to pro­vide "their expertise in helping countries build solid founda­tions for market economies." 
lin assured the impoverished nations of the Third World that 



INVESTMENT BANKING RECEPTION 
Thursday, October 24, 1991 at 5:00p.m. Salomon Brothers Chicago Office 8700 Sears Tower 
Nicholas Brady 

their needs for assistance won't be forgotten. 
Tanzania's minister of fi­nance. Steven Kibona, told del­egates that living standards in Africa were deteriorating and the continent was in urgent need of help. 
"There is risk that Africa will be left on the peripheries," he said. 
Speaking on behalf of the bank's Latin American mem­bers, Venezuelan Finance Min­ister Miguel Rodriguez, urged the organization to promote social programs and a more equitable distribution of wealth. 
He urged both organizations to designate more money for health, education, family plan­ning and income distribution programs and to use part of a $1 billion capital increase to fi­nance human resource pro­grams in rural areas. 
The finance minister of the Philippines, which has faced problems meeting some lMF targets, urged bankers to show sensitivity for political difficul­ties faced by Third World gov­ernments in selling austerity measures to their people. 
"Let not the multilateral agencies see countries only through the prism of abstract formulas to be applied neatly in every instance," the minister, Jesus Estanislao, said. "They have to look at concrete situa­tions, with the array of real forces that often make actual results fall below the ideal." 
Most of the attention in Bangkok has been devoted to problems in the Soviet Union and other Eastern European states moving from a socialist to a market economy. 
Last Sunday, the Group of Seven -the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, Italy, Canada and France -promised to help the Soviet Union and to send deputy finance ministers 
We invite all Seniors to get to know our people and career opportunities. 
to Moscow soon to help orchestrate a rescue program. 
Brady told the Cable News Network that short-term fi­nancing "is absolutely one of the things that should be looked at." The So.viet foreign debt is estimated at about $68 billion, and Kremlin finance aides say their cash is running out. 
Conference sources said other possible financing measures in­clude using Soviet gold reserves as collateral for loans. 
The World Bank president, Lewis Preston, told the opening session that nations should cut defense spending to free money for development and social programs, since the Cold War is over. 
"We cannot afford to miss this opportunity," he said. "Reductions in defense expendi· tures would increase domestic savings, allowing a reallocation of scarce resources to other priorities, and would reduce requirements for external capi­tal." 
Michel Camdessus, chairman of the lMF, said $140 billion could be redirected if nations kept military spending to the world average of 4.5 percent of gross domestic product. 
THURSDAY, OCT.10 

2:12 p.m. A Notre Dame Secu· rity/Police Officer reported a violation of University rules by two record com· panles In South Bend. The compan1es were distributing literature on campus. 
6:28 p.m. A South Bend resident reported his car was damaged while it was parked in the Stadium Parking Lot. 8;30 p.m. A Notre Dame Sacu· rity/Police Officer transported an In­jured University employee from South Dining Hall to the Student Health Center. 
11 :00 p.m. A Knott Hall residant reported shE! observed some suspi­Cious persons at the Hesburgh Library. 
FRIDAY, OCT. 11 

12:17 a.m. A Siegfried resident re­ported that she lost her watch at Theodore's. 
2:26 a.m. A Notre Dame Secu· rity/Police Officer observed the van· dallsm of an exterior light at Nleuwland Science Hall. The officer stopped and questioned the suspect who is a Cavanaugh Hall resident. 
9:26 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police transported a University employee from the Morris Inn to St. Joseph's Emergency room. 
4:36 p.m. A Badin Hall resident re­ported the theft of her car from the D-6 student parking lot. A Notre Dame Security/Police Officer found the stolen vehicle at 9:30 p.m. parked at the Declo Circle. 9:36p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Fire Department assisted a resident of Marivale; Ohio who was ill. The patient was transported trom Sacred Heart Church to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
10:44 p.m. Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police responded to a domestic dispute at the University Village Apartment Complex. 
SATURDAY, OCT.12 

1:22 a.m. A Domino's Pizza employee reported the theft of a Domino's sign from a delivery vehicle. The theft occurred outside of Grace Hall. 
2:50 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Pollee and Fire Department responded to a fire alarm at Flenner Hall. There was actually no fire and the Incident Is under investigation. 
5:08 a.m. A South Bend resident was cited by a Notre Dame Security/Police Officer lor driving with e~plred plates and driving without a seatbelt. 
9:25 a.m. A Hingham. Massachuse«s resident reported the larceny of several items from his locked car which was parked at the Notre Dame Credit Union. 
9:27 a.m. A Chicago resident reported that his car had been damaged after It was towed to Green Field. 
11:42 a.m. Notre Dame Secu· rity/Police assisted In the transport of an Injured St. Louis, Mo. resident from Red Field to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
12:39 p.m. A Chicago resident re­turned a stolen picture to a Notre Dame Security/Police Officer. The picture was taken to the Notre Dame Security BUilding. 
12:40 p.m. A Notre Dame Secu· rity/Police Officer found an Intoxicated Pangborn re:;ident passed out in a JACC restroom. The Notre Dame Fire Department administered first aid and the student was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
1:00 p.m. A South Bend resident was arrested and charged with resisting law enforcement. In addit1on, he and another South Bend resident was ticketed for a minor consuming alcohol charge. 
1:10 p.m. A Notre Dame Secu· rity/Police Officer respond~d the report of a simple assault charge outside Notre Dame Stadium. 
1:30 p.m. A Notre Dame Secu­rity/Pollee Oflicer responded to a re­port of three suspicious persons in Red Field. The officer found the men and escorted them off campus. 2:09p.m. Notre Dame Securlty/Pollca and Fire Department treated an injured University employee and assited in transporting him from Blue Field to St. Joseph's Medical Center 
2:35 p.m. A Chicago resident was stopped outside the Notre Dame 
•· Stadium and informed that he had vio­lated University rules regarding tres­passing. 
2:40 p.m. An Arlington, Virginia res· ident was arrested for public lntoxlca· tlon at the Morris Inn. 
5:35 p.m. An Oaklawn, Illinois resi­dent reported that he lost his wallet at the Notre Dame football game. Notre Dame Security/Police subsequently found the wallet and are holding it until the victim can be contacted. 
10:41 p.m. A Roscoe, Illinois resident was cited by a Notre Dame Se· curlty/Pollce Officer for driving 55 MPH in a 30 MPH zone. 
------------------~----~ 
Viewpoint 
Page 10 Wednesday, October 16, 1991 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sport,s Editor ......•..•.•••. David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor ............••...... John O'Brien Systems Manager .........•....•• Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institutiorl. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hunger Coalition says thank you for fasting 
Dear Editor: participating in the Wednesday 
Today is World Food Day, a Lunch Fast. day to contemplate the issues of Their weekly sacrifice will re­poverty and hunger which sult in thousands of dollars to plague people everywhere, be donated to grass-roots pro­from our own streets to the jects in developing nations, and alleys and deserts of distant has helped make every Wednes­nations. day a World Food Day. 
Did you know ... We invite fasters and the en­
1. 
More than enough food is tire student body to our weekly grown to feed everyone on this meetings, held on Monday planet. evenings at 7 p.m. in the C.S.C. 

2. 
Today, 60,000 people will to reflect on and combat the die of hunger -two thirds of devastating problems facing our them children. world each day. Fasting is a 

3. 
Nearly one out of five wonderful way to begin un­people worldwide is chronically derstanding and actively partic­malnourished -too hungry to ipating in the fight to end world lead a productive, active life. hunger. 


The World Hunger Coalition Please know that your sacri­would like to take this oppor­fice does mean a lot. You tunity to thank those students should all be proud of the con­who have joined us in our ef­tribution you are making. forts to become more aware of Thank you again -we hope to these disturbing statistics. This see you at the meetings. semester there were a record World Hunger Coalition number of students -over 800 -Oct. 13, 1991 

YOU KNO/JJ /JJHAT tfEU., IF 5Ht 
MY~ffO/?MJJIIi:£
(}(JR~JlJ5T la5,SHt'ti­
ART9PAaJI.ET
7DWMt~ SHe'S ~7H&CN.-Y 
tu!JNTOUT CF

GeTTING A JOB.' ~Mit/?. 
8U9/N/393.
IN7Ht 

Culture, environment foster discrimination 
Dear Editor:  criminating, but a few genera­ yourself is whether the  
This letter is in response to  tions ago some white people  feelings those white people  
the letter by Jim Ouellette  would become sick to their  had or the feelings Jim has  
(The Observer, Oct. 8). I've  stomach if they had to eat in  are right, and why those  
been thinking about what he  the same room, or use the  feelings are right. Jim  
wrote the other day. While  same bathroom as a black  demands that we should be  
saying that he did not believe  person, yet they steadfastly  able to speak freely about ho­ 
in discrimination, he asked for  denied practicing  mosexuality in a caring man­ 
our understanding should we  discrimination. They were  ner, yet somehow I believe  
see him "puking on the floor"  even willing to provide equal  that the feelings in his  
at the sight of a same-sex  facilities to prove so.  stomach have already decided  
couple displaying affection.  that he is not interested in  
In the beginning he had the  Only a generation ago, some  speaking in a caring manner  
right idea. Being able to  white people didn't feel as  or even listening in a learning  
discuss feelings about people  though they were discriminat­ manner. I am not saying that  
who are homosexual and  ing against blacks simply be­ Jim's feelings are right or  
homosexuality is important.  cause they found racially­ wrong, but he has a  
Our freedom to discuss the  mixed couples unacceptable.  responsibility along with the  
morality and implications of  These people pointed to the  rest of us to search for truth.  
this topic helps our society to  fact that blacks could now eat  
deal fairly with the issue by  with then, sit in the front of  What society and our  
enabling us to search for, and  the bus with them, and even  environment teach and instill  
perhaps find truth.  use the same bathroom, but  in us as values and morals is  
should these white people  not always right. Those  
Our willingness to discuss  have seen a black person and  feelings that intuitively tell us  
the issue allows us to discover  white person displaying  that something is morally  
answers beyond written docu­ affection toward one another,  wrong, that make us want to  
ments and beyond the values  they would have felt the same  'puke', a.-en't always right. No  
that society has instilled  sickness that Jim feels today.  one country or religion has a  
within us. We are provided  monopoly on truth. The  
with an opportunity to think  To these people racially  search for what is "right"  
through and to understand  mixed couples were an  cannot even stop simply be­ 
our emotions toward ho­ unnatural thing, as "gut­ cause there is a great book  
mosexuality. So, yes, he was  wrenching and unnatural" as  that tells us what the 'answer'  
right when he said that we  homosexuality is to Jim. But  is. We need to be able to  
should be able to discuss  you must understand that this  question the results and  
homosexuality good or bad in  is a result of culture and  understand why the  
an open atmosphere.  environment. I do not doubt  conclusion was reached.  
Unfortunately, the discussion  that Jim's feelings of sickness  I hope that Jim and those  
went far beyond that point  and desire to throw-up are  who think as he does will take  
and revealed the dark side of  real when he sees a same-sex  the time to search for truth. It  
his analysis.  couple displaying affection,  doesn't matter that you are  
You see, Jim has fallen prey  nor do I doubt the feelings of  part of the majority if you are  
to an environment which  those white people about  wrong. You are still wrong.  
believes in discriminating  whom I spoke who had to eat  
against homosexual people. I  with black people or watch a  Moses Garcia  
understand that he doesn't  racially mixed couple kiss.  Off-campus  
feel as though he is dis- The question you need to ask  Oct. 10, 1991  
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY  

THAr5... THAT'5 TCRR!Bl.&, 

... UM... THAT
J.J..' I MeAN, I !<NOW 

THING YOU
TH!3R£'9 A ~NON, 
[)().
£JUT yO(}'[) 7HINI< PeOPUS tWUW AU<IAY5 SUPPORT... 
I 
--~..... '' / IJM,, 

'It a man loses reverence for any part of life, he will lose reverence for all of life.' 
Albert Schweitzer 
Don't be a silent scream. submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
---------------~~---­
-------~-­
Viewpoint
Wednesday, October 16, 1991 Page 11 
Wanting it so much, and losing to a king and his cat 
Another Democrat recently ran. My chances looked good faced with a mass turnout of one of the Walsh balconi1~s 
announced for the presidency, against a fellow freshman and 
students protesting the and let him ramble over a 
and it occurred to me that my friend, "The Sophomore." drinking policy. (Sound microphone. The crowd below 
Washington, DC and Notre I courted and obtained the familiar?) He calmed the was astoundingly large, partly 
Damn havn mueh in common. support of our hall president students by telling them that for the entertainment value 
Both attract the best that time and vice-president, even a se­the University now saw their and partly as a matter of 
ean of'f'nr. Both thrive on a de­nior who had run (and lost} resolve and that he would curiosity. The momentum had 
sire to be the best -to win the Student Body Presidency handle the matter from a definitely had "king" written 
every contnst, to exceed every the previous year. I came in position of strength. He then all over it. 
goal. Looking back, it senms third, losing by one vote. That licked a few administrative I ran a great, rolled-up 
logical that a lierce competitor was a Grotto Moment! boots, did nothing for the stu­sleeves campaign. I identilied 
such as myself should enroll at At the same time, my neigh­dents, and got his great letter problems the students were 
Notre Damn and nventually bor (also a freshman) ran for of recommendation for Yale having and opened lines of 
livn in Washington. Sophomore Class President as Law School. communication with adminis­
This is -the sncond column I a joke candidate with a slate Years later he ran twice for tration members in an effort havn writtnn for Thn Observer, consisting of his roommate include a degree from Notre the national alumni board and to build a rapport with them. and I hope that you, the and two guys from Morrissey. Dame, was caught in that lie was defeated twice ... we still I suggested ways of solving readnr, will eventually look His name was Steve Pallucca, as well as others, and was did not like him.) those problems, pointed to my forward to my wm~kly "Capitol hut h.e looked and acted more fired. With that climate of distrust success in class government Comments." I intend to tweak like John Belushi. He wanted The fact of the matter was for our student leader, the gaining automobile privileges your curiosity, arouse your me to run his campaign. So I that he had been a Holy Cross campus felt like student gov­for sophomores, and ran intnlleet, and sometimes did. He won. Junior College student when ernment was a joke. So they circles around other smack you over thn head like The Pallucca campaign he ran against me. I lost to a started to pick up on the king's candidates in the debates. At llomey thn Clown. (I gunss posters simply read, "Steve guy who was not even an ND campaign. the end of the campaign I was that the cry baby Indiana Pallucca will make the best student! How could my The king chose a kitten as exhausted but felt good about University studnnt who wrote damn · Sophomore Class political life get any worse? his running mate. His first my progress. about all ND alumni President Notre Dame ever Here is where that damn cat obstacle was, "Only a student On election day I actually idnntifying with downs .was had. Signed, Ray Pallucca -comes into the picture. can run for office." So his thought I had a shot at the correct.) Steve's Dad." That slogan (plus What happens to the losers campaign staff made a fake ID runoff election. I was gaining 
Throughout this column my the fact that our friends of any election? They get ap­for the cat. (They probably some momentum although the personality will nm1~rgn some­manned the ballot boxes in a pointed to jobs by the winners sought advice from Mr. king had a big "M" on his fore­thing like thn genntie merger few halls) won the election. who are friends. Pallucca Integrity himself ... Jack Kelly.) head. The king carried all the of Alan Alda1 Bart Simpson, Steve's term was quite suc­named me chairman of the The Observer the following halls except Lyons Hall where Bruen Willis, and Danny cessful having established a Junior Parents' Weekend. The day ran a front page picture of I lived. I missed the runoff DnVito. Most saen~d cows will Sophomore Parents' Weekend weekend just happened to the cat sitting on the king's election by a couple hundred not be spared my attention. during a football weekend as precede the Student Body shoulder while the king votes, and it was just as well. Everythirig said will be in a well as securing the right for Presidency elections. What (complete with Burger King In the runoff, the king swept fun-loving manner. That will sophomores to bring cars to better platform from which to crown) proudly held the ID for all of the halls. I took my he my approach· for this campus. (Only upperclassmen spring to hopefully my first, all to see. Great press. bottle of Maalox to the Grotto column. were permitted to have cars and biggest office? The king lived in Walsh and for a combined moment. 
Ilownvnr, I bnlieve that you .on campus.) These were great I, and about a half dozen used the traditional The following year the king should know little about my 
let his roommate, "H-Man," nxperienens at Notrn Dame run the student government before I actually roll up my for him. The damn cat slept in slenvns and "give 'em hell" the Student Body Vice­like Harry Truman. President's mail box in 
So you ask, "Where does the LaFortune. I rebounded cat comn into this?" during summer school from 
Hold on. you will lind out in my previous semester's two dw! time. First, let's talk about D's and an F. my goals and how life is one Someone once said to be grnat baseball pitcher who careful for what you wish throws nothing but curves. because it may come true. I 
My number one goal was wanted so badly to be elected Notre Damn. Tlw University to an office at Notre Dame. I admitted me. I enlnbrated by had made history by losing to 
accomplishments, especially others, ran for the SBP office. graduation theme song as his
eating a ton of my mother's a king and his cat. Maybe that 
for a joke candidate, and The crowded field included a identification song by
Italian cookies. That was a in itself would be enough
Pallucca won reelection as our student endorsed by The constantly blaring it out onto
Maalox Moment. satisfaction. Then at the 
Junior Class President. Observer-his roommates were the South Quad between
Number two goal was my beginning of my senior year, 
canwr. Like most students, I Sophomore year I had my the Editor-In-Chief and the classes. It was a good my section didn't even hold a 
eye on the campus council Managing Editor, the WSND reminder of his campaign
thought I had a due, but I was section leader election. They
known at that time as the Radio endorsed candidate who without him actually
dueless. It might be niee to be announced to me that I had 
Student Life Council. I would 'is now a U.S. Congressman campaigning.
l'residiHlt of tlw United earned the title. Somehow it 
run from the South Quad here in Washington, a hall He called himself the "Prime 
States ... or a lawyer. was not the same, but that 
against a guy named John president who was endorsed Mover" and declared that he
Logically, then, I should try evening I threw out my
Kelly ... lrish Mafia versus by the Hall President's would only campaign from toi­
my hand at campus politics, so Maalox bottle. 
Italian Malia. And I spared no Council, two students with no let stalls. Have you ever seen
I ran for snction leader in my 
expense nor effort in the campus political experience, a an entire dorm try to crowd
dorm at the beginning of my Gary J. Caruso is a graduatecampaign. I lost again. joke candidate, and myself. into one bathroom? It may be
frnshman year. I lost to a of the University of Notre 
It was not until years after I ran hard, long, failed a common place in Dillon, but
sophomorn. It was a "learning Dame and now works in 
(while here in Washington) class that semester, was the around campus this was real
experimlel!." Washington, D.C. as a desktop
that I learned about the real, only candidate to carry his mass appeal.
During tlw second semester publishing specialist for the 
slimy, Nixon-esque Jack Kelly. own hall, and lost to of all The king would climax his
of' my freshman ynar I ran for United States /louse of 
The man worked for the people ... a king and his cat! campaign by speaking after
the Student Senate. The Representatives. His column Republican National The king's campaign was dinner from behind a burning
Senate race nleetnd two from appears every other 
Committee, or so he said. He masterful. Early that year our bush. That evening his cam­
our distrkt, and three of us Wednesday.
had falsified his resume to incumbent president was paign staff lit a trash can on 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Mass for deceased student shows essence of this great University 
Dear Editor: his body with pain for more the way things are because they It is the President of the church. It is a moving and I have been at Notre Dame for than a year and a half. But can be better; some who are University and several other magnificent sermon by his 17 years as I>in~etor of the 
rector, Father Steve Newton, 
UnivPrsity Press and a teacher in tlw CoiiHgn of Arts and Lnttnrs. I admit to loving this placn, weak spots, imperfec­tions and illusions notwith­standing. 
But I havn never seen so dearly, nor b1wn so proud of, the essnnce of Notre Dame as I and remembrances by three of Jay's closest friends. And it is music played and sung with majesty. 

Jay was a brilliant student who treasured the intellectual life and found it well fed at Notre Dame. It is equally the measure of our temporary cus­
tody of this place that his spirit 
tnndnd tlw memorial service for markable love for God, his are just not content, period. for a departed member of this could live, nourish and bn cele­.Jay Kelly, a deceased member family, friends and acquain­But this place isn't 'just about community. It is Jay's teachers brated here with such grace . of the current senior class. tances. teaching loads or budget cuts or coming to share at once loss James R. Langford 
Aft1~r a courageous battle to Every university -.every insti­power struggles of football or and hope. It is Jay's student Director, Notre Dame Press live, Jay suceumbed last sum­tution -harbors its own critics: fund-raising. Jay's memorial friends, hundreds of them, Oct. 10,1991 nwr to a canenr that had seared some who an! not content with service is what it is really about. filling both center, aisles of the was on October 3 when I at­
Accent 
Wednesday, October 16, 1991
page 12 
Jeanne Blasi 
From the Playpen 
New courses: a DARTer's dream 
D 
ear University of Notre Dame Administrators, 
Because I think this semester's 
course selection is too limited, I have 
some proposals for new classes to be started 
here at Notre Dame and even suggested some 
professors whom I feel best qualify to teach 
these courses. Please keep these classes in mind 
when compiling the next DART book, for I feel 
many would benefit from these courses. 
SINS 419: Cross listed with Theo 211: Chastity 
and you: . A basic survey of the most effective 
ways to lure a member of the opposite sex into 
your dorm room after parietals. Required 
readings include: Rope, Parachutes, Handcuffs 
and other useful Tools alfd What to do with a 
Bottle ofVintage Wine and Two Chilled Glasses. 
ALUM 153: A Marketing Heaven: cross listed 
with MARK 231. Recommended for 
Marketing/Finance majors. A comprehensive 
study of the operation of the Hammes-Notre 
Dame Bookstore and guidelines for the smartest 
paraphernalia choices of 1991-92. Emphasis on 
plaid outer-ware and guest speakers from the 
Champion, Inc. and from ND Alumni Clubs 
around the world. Bookstore tour fee will be 
charged to Bookstore charge account. 
MATE 440: Cross listed with MRS 101: 
Finding your Spouse before the real world 
strikes. For the desperate student who thinks 
life ends after ND. Topics include: the Happy 
Housewife, laundry and literature, and male 
chauvinism is in. 
GOLF 111: Disabled Vehicle Driving: The art 
of driving a golf cart. Learn to drive 30 m.p.h. 
down a crowded sidewalk or on the grass. 
Topics covered will be swerving, plowing, and 
first aid. Grading system: points awarded for 
dangerously swerving around and/or hitting 
students. 
RAID 240: Running from SUDS: Bring your 
running shoes and a fake ID to learn 50 ways to 
get out of a bar being raided. Study the answers 
to questions such as, "Why does your ID say 
you're 4'9" when you look 6 feet tall," "Wait, 
you're not blonde," and "Do you have a second 
form of ID?" Course requirements: An ID which 
says you are 'under 21' and an ID which says 
you are 21 or older. 
MOMS 442: In Loco Parentis: Study parenting 
techniques of Mr. and Mrs. DuLac. Emphasis on 
imposing curfew and preaching. Required 
readings include: Every Room is a Bedroom. No, 
We Don't Trust You, and, Responsibly 
Consuming Alcohol in your Closet. 
BEER 229: Closet Drinking: Smuggling alco­
hol into the dorm. Course requires a creative 
mind, and a case of beer. Grading based on 
creativity in techniques and amount of alcohol 
smuggled in. 
FOOD 427: For advanced students wishing to 
broaden their creative capacity for construction 
of dining hall meals. Topics include "Those 
casseroles: What are they and who eats them," 
"Salad Bar: a pageantry of vegetables," and 
"Pasta Bar, 0 Pasta Bar: why do we eat so much 
of it?" Chefs hat required. 
HELL 101: DART Techniques: "How to get the 
classes you want even when they are all closed 
out." Study techniques of getting people with 
better times to DART classes for you and the art 

of kissing up to a professor to get into a closed 
class. 
CAMP 110: Camping out at ND: Forget what 
to bring while camping out for football tickets? 
This course instructs in what to bring and how 
to amuse yourselves. Special focus on pushing 
your way up to the front of the line and hiding 
illegal beverages from the fierce ND Security 
force. 
Jeanne Blasi is Assistant Production Manager 
of The Observer. Her columns appear every 
third Wednesday in Accent. 

harge 
t! 
·Easily obtained credit cards can lead to big debts for students 
Editor's note: Due to the nature of the article, student's names have been changed to ensure confidentiality. 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Editor-in-Chief 
Hilary has a $1.100 problem. 
The 21-year-old Notre Dame student has accumulated a sub­stantial credit card debt during her college years. The worst part is that this figure is considerably lower than it was previously. 
Credit card woes have caused this senior much anguish. Her situation is especially problematic because her monthly income is approximately $200. 
Hilary is not the only student to find herself in serious credit card debt. Joe, also a senior at Notre Dame, is struggling to pay off his own $1,000 Visa bill. · 
Hilary and Joe aren't alone. With banks making it easier for students to get credit cards with high credit lines, many students find themselves over their heads in debt. 
According to College Track magazine (fall 1990). the average monthly credit card balance for undergraduates is estimated at $384. 
Using this balance and the 19.8 interest rate charged by Chase Manhattan Bank and Citibank (two of the largest credit card issues for college market), average annual interest paid by a student cardholder if balance is extended to next month is $76.03. 
Both Hilary and Joe confirm that having such enormous debts as a college student is difficult to manage. They also agree that the problem is not one they care to share with their parents. 
While these students may not have spent responsibly. they intend to handle the debt on their own. 
"During my sophomore year I got my first credit card-a J.C. Penny charge," Hilary says. "I signed up for it because they gave me a free gift." 
Later that year she received a letter in the mail from Citibank offering her a Visa with a $1,500 limit. 
"All I had to do was sign my name," she recalls. 

She lost control when she charged items such as a class ring and books to her Visa, Hilary says. "My parents would then send me a reimbursement check and I would spend their money before the bill would come," says Hilary. 
At one point Hilary had a $1,500 debt on her Visa, $300 on a Hudson's charge, $100 on a Lerner's charge, as well as smaller amounts on various other cards. 
"At this point, I had 12 credit cards," she says. 
"I got scared when I realized I had $10,000 in potential debt," Hilary explains. She then decided to cut up her Visa and pay off all her other credit card bills. Hilary also closed eight of her charge accounts. 
On the cards Hilary decided to keep, she lowered the spending limits. 
Now she no longer has a Visa card, but is working to pay off her debt. The interest on her Citibank Visa is approximately 19 percent. 
"Right now I pay the minimum payment of $30 each month," says Hilary. "It's scary because $25 goes to interest, while only $5 actually goes toward the principal," she says. 
Hilary is trying to pay off her debt the best she can. "I don't want to graduate from college owing $1,000," she says. 
It has been difficult for Hilary to tell her parents about her credit card debt as her mother warned her to be careful when she first starting charging items. 
''I'm gradually telling them (my parents)," Hilary says. 
Her parents may soon realize her financial problems as she. explains, "It's going to be a lean Christmas for anyone who knows me." 
Joe acquired his Visa card at the end of his freshman year. It used to have a $1,500 limit, but the company extended his credit "because I was such a good customer," he jokes. His limit is now $2,000. 
Last month Joe's balance was approximately $1,200. He's been carrying that amount on his account for almost one year. 
Unlike Hilary, Joe has been able to make somewhat substantial payments toward his Visa bill. 
"Last month, I paid about $250," says Joe. His interest rate is also about 19 percent. 
Joe still has his credit card, but tries not to use it as much. He also carries Sears and Eddie Bauer charge cards, but never uses them. 
Joe, too, believes it is difficult to tell his parents about the seriousness of his financial situation. 
"I don't want to make them (his parents) pay," Joe says. "It's my responsibility." 
Both Hilary and Joe say they have learned from their experiences. They hope credit card debt won't be a problem for them in the future. 
While Hilary still believes that students need credit cards for their financial future, she warns that they need to be careful. 
''I've learned my lesson," she says. As students generally receive five letters a week from chaFge and credit card companies, she advises them to "just get .one card and stay away from all the other ones." 
She added that if students are going to charge items and have their friends reimburse them. they should have friends make a check out to the credit card company. Then students won't be tempted to spend the money before the bill comes. 
Students who do have trouble with credit cards in college may find their problems will stay on their record for years to come. 
If a customer doesn't make a payment or pays late, the Credit Bureau finds out, says Ellen Sciacca. director of marketing at Notre Dame Credit Union (NDCU). This institution, which offers Mastercards for students, subscribes to the Credit Bureau. 
Customers who make late payments or go over their limits can damage their credit rating. she explains. "Late payment-not balance-is key," Sciacca explains. 
If a student is concerned about his or her credit rating, he or she may contact the Credit Bureau of South Bend-Mishawaka, 312 W. Colfax, 236-5600. 
Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, a person has been denied credit within 60 days can access their file free of charge. Otherwise, the Credit Bureau assesses a $10 charge for individual accounts and $15 for joint accounts. 

3. 
ruse one carcf's casfi acfvance/crecfit fine to pay tlie minimum on anotfier, or app{y for anotfier, or app{y for anotfier crecfit care£ wfien you've reacfiec£ tfie fimit on otfiers 

4
. .fJ'reat Jriencfs to cfinner witfi a crecfit care£ in orcfer to get casfi reim6ursement 

5
. .9Lren 't sure/are uneasy a6out wfietfier tfie approvaf wi{{go tfirougfi 

6. 
:fee{ rdiefwfien you open tfie mau6o?(anc£ tfie 6i{[ fiasn 't yet arrivec£ 

7. 
'Begin timing wfien your part-time jo6 paycfieck_is cfeposi;ea ana your crecfit care£ payment lias 6een mauec£ 

8
. .9Lvoic£answering your parents wlien tfiey ast ''J-fow are you cfoingfinanciaf{y?" 

9. 
Cut 6ack_on stucfying to work_more fiours to pay 6i{f.s 

10. 
Jtsk_parents for a "sma{{ {oan" to ticfe you over to ma/(g. encfs meet eacfi montfi 



Wednesday, October 16, 1991 page 13 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. altha Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary·s offoce. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classilieds is 3p.m. All classoloeds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
ATTENTION BUFFALO CLUB 
There will be an Xmas bus going 
home in December. so plan ahead. 
Signups in Nov. Rochester folks 
welcome. ?'s matt x3573 
LOST/FOUND r 
FOUND: FEMALE GERMAN 
SHEPHARD MIX WITH RED 
COLLAR DRAGGING A CHAIN. 
FOUND ON CAMPUS. CALL ANN 
654-8550 OR 239-6346. 
LOST: NO VARSITY LETTER 
JACKET SUNDAY AT STEPAN 
FIELD NO. ALUM. PLEASE CALL 
ADAM AT 271-0716. 
LOST: WALKMAN AT THE HUDDLE ON 10/10/91 AROUND 11 PM. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL MARl AT X4270. I CANNOT SURVIVE WITHOUT Ill 
LOST: BLUE JEAN JACKET AT 
SENIOR BAR ON SATURDAY, 
10/12. CALL LORI239-8327. 
Found in Career & Placement: Red. while & blue jacket; ND key ring-8 keys including Mazda car key. 
LOST: Brown, brushed leather jackal. Very desperate to recover itII! If you have it, have seen it. or know anything about it, PLEASE call Robb at 1802. Reward offered. No questions asked. 
LOST OR STOLEN 
JESUS 
He's 3-dimensional and my RA wants him back to light up his room. Return htm w1th no questions asked to 316 Flanner. 
God would want you to do it. 
LOST GOLD "ROPE" BRACELET. on October 8, 1991, somewhere on South Quad. If found. PLEASE CALL BETH 112509. 
LOST-pearl necklace in grey 
eyeglass case 10/9/91 REWARD!!! 
Kathleen 288-9421 
FOUND: on first floor 
Niewland on 9 Oct man's 
jacket. Contact Dave at 
289-3234 and describe. 
FOUND MEN'S GLASSES IN 
CUSHING AUO. SATURDAY NIGHT(! 0:30pm). CALL BOB x1902 TO IDENTIFY 
FOUND!IIII female watch ...p1cked up at connell's concert. call 1682. 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo.Summer, Yr.round,AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. 
NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL NJ OCT 18 $$ X4456 
Statistics consultant wanted · NO professtonal specialist or grad student. expert in stat & SPSS/PC 4.0, to help local firm design & implement customer surveys. Must have time available. Send resume to SBS/KMA, PO box 1024, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
NEED RIDE To IU (Indy good enough) Sat. of break@ noon (alter GMAT's) Call Steve x23661 Will Pay $$ 
NEED TenntNavy GAs-please Chris1791 
TRAVEL FREE II SELL QUALITY SPRING BREAK VACATION TO JAMAICA. HIGHEST COMMISSIONS PAID. WORK FOR THE BEST! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. 
BEST DAMN CAMPUS REP WANTEOIII North America's Best Damn Tour Co. Only H·Life can offer you a FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP for every 20 paid and a chance to win a YAMAHA WAVEJAMMER. Join thousands of other campus reps. 
Call Now 1 ·800·263-5604. 
HELP Need a ride to LaCrosse WI area this Friday WILL PAY Call Michele 4802 
Help! need ride to TENNESSEE 
10/18. Please call Tanja-2908. 
FOR RENT r 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219·291· 7153 
For Sale 
'85 NISSAN MAXIMA, 4-dr. stick, loaded. Excellent condition. $4990. 271-70181v. msg. 
2 UNITED AIRLINE TICKETS SB 
TO WESTCHESTER CO NY. 
LEAVE NOV 7 · RETURN NOV 
10. $120 EACH. 291-6543 
89 VW Jetta GL Wallsburg, 
50 th year edition. All power 
277-7363 
CyclePro Mountain Bike, 18 speed, 26" wheel, 19" frame, $200. Fuji Touring Bike, 12 speed, 27" wheel, 19" frame. $165. 232-2631. 
USC STUD. IN SR. SEC. +TEMP 
STUD. 1.0. So cheap you'll cry. 
Call Jeff @ 288·9334 
TICKETS 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED. TOP$$$. 800·638·7655. 
Please help, I need Tenn GA's, call 
Kevin@ 111407. 
Need 2 Navy GA's 
call Dave x1747 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 
TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL 
601·249-3417 NIGHTS. 
i need up to 5 STUD tix for USC. 
pete x1791 
$$$$$ 
USC GA's needed. Call and leave 
message 277-9468. 
$$$$$ 
NEED TENN. GA'S. CALL MARK 312·902·5511 DAYS, OR 708·251-4502 AFTER 8 PM. 
WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? NEED 3 TICKETS TO NO vs. USC ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 81 8· 789· 0654 
usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc 
Vince Needs two GA's to see THE TROJANS Call x3414 anytime 
usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc 
NEED USC TIX: STUD. OR GA'S PLEASE CALL MIKE AT: 256-7034 
i need GAs for NAVYII! Todd x1784 
HELP!I Need 3 GA's for NAVY x2797 
FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME GAMES273·1802 
I NEED NAVY AND TENN GA'S 
HAVE 1 PITT GA FOR SALE OR TRADE 
CALL TOM X1762 
HELP I I NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$ ASK FOR AL@ X1230 
WANT TO PURCHASE STUDENT TICKET BOOKS. PLEASE CALL 284·3814, LEAVE YOUR NAME, NUMBER AND PRICE 
Need 1 or 2 Navy GAs Bridget X3778 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR TENNESEE JOE X1360 
Need 3 USC GA's together:::: Have 3 GA's(2 together) to sell/trade. # 1164 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S 
Call BARB x4761 
I NEED TENN. GA OR STUDENT TICKET 
TOM·TOM X1762 PLEASEPLEASEPLEASEPLEASE 2·4 TN GA'S SEAN @289·6439 

TRADE: Will trade 2 USC GA's for 2 TENN GA's call: 259-6956 
PLEASE SELL ME 2 USC GA'sl My Grandpa really wants to see the game. Beth x4855 
NEED USC STUD TIX x2742 
NEED N.D. FOOTBALL G.A.'S 2 or 4 for U.S.C. or Tennesse Phone 256-2836 
I NEED 2 Navy GAs. call Carol x4942. 
NEED GA'S: 5 TENN & 1 NAVY KELLY X4854 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S CALL MEGAN x1275 
HelpII II I Need 2 GA's to USC. Please call Andy @ 233-9588 
NEED stud tix or GAs for any home games. Call John 232-8065 $$$ 
Sell whole ticket booklet or next USC game. Call alter7pm 2323330. 
Will trade 2 Navy GAs for 2 USC or 2 Tenn. GAs. Call 289·4061 days or 277-6239 nights. 
will trade 2navy GA for 2USC/ 2TENN GA-Kevin 3252 
Need 4 USC GA's, 4 Tenn. GA's, and 3 Tenn. Stud. Call #3718 
NEED 13 NO-USC GA TKTS. CALL 284-5261 IF YOU ARE SELLING. 
I NEED NAVY GA'S CALL KRISTIN 277-6708 
Need 2 USC GAs Will pay troo da nose Call Brendan 277·9249 
Wanted: 2 Navy GA's $$$is, no object! Call Fred 289-6439 
NEED 10 TENN. GAS call Pat Arendt x1535 $$$$$ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need 2 USC GA's Will x1621 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
HELPII NEED USC AND TENN. TIXI! CALL X3353 
NEED 1 USC Stud/GA ticket. Call Amy R. 1·800·635-4186 Ext 7296. Leave a message 
Need 1 USC GA or Student ticket. Call X4637. Thanks! 
Need 4 TENN GA's call jon 271-1562 
HAVE PITT GAS CALL xt781 MAKE OFFER 
I need 2 USC tix Tom #3109 
I NEED USC,TENN,PITT.& NAVY GA TIXS.272-6306 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME$ CALL COLLECT 812·477·2627 
I need a Navy GA desperately Call Mike x4655 
HELP! Alum needs 2 USC GAs Will pay $$-call Ivan @2037 
I need a GA for Navy Ill Call Jahnelle at x2867 
I NEED USC GAS CALL PHIL X2096 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 ST. TIX FOR TENN. Call Kathy x3958 
Need TENN & USC GA's Stan x1726 
NEED NAVY GA'S SHARON 284·5146 
I need 4 GA's for the USC or Navy game. PLEASE I Call Amy at 284· 5117. Thanx. 
I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC and Tennessee. Chris 239·5713 
·1 Need Two Tennessee Tickets So my friends can see those Red Neck Vols. Call the Green-One x3409. 
Attention! I have friends coming from California who woud love to see the Irish destroy USC. Any GAs or student tix would be most excellent, dude. Call 277·6932 and give Rob your price. If Rob isn't home listen to his excellent answering machine and leave a message. 
Need 2·4 NAVY GA'S. Will pay top 
dollar! call Jeff 234-2396 
I NEED 2 TENNESEE GA'S 
CALL COREY 277-5854 
I Need 2 USC GA's 
--Steve X 1835 
Please sell me your Tenn. GA 
or student tix. x2985 
NEED GA's AND STUD. TIX TO USC AND TENN. JAY X1578 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S IN A BAD 
WAY !I Brady x1191 
I need two USC GA's so my parents can bring me back to school! I Please HELP! I don't want to live at hornell I Call Jeanne x2670 -leave message 
I NEED USC TIX BAD!! 
CALL KEITH #1560 
NEED 2 TENN GAs 
Rob x3571 
I need 2 GA's for USC I Please 
call Amy at 2706 if you can 
help! 
TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS. 
RANDY 800-323·7687. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S, 
Will Trade Tenn Student Tix and 
Plenty a' Cash I 
Call Dan x1236 
NEED 4 NAVY GAs-CALL DOC· 
2723001 
I NEED USC GAs IN A BIG WAY. My pen pal from the Gulf War is coming to visit-don't deny him the chance to see a game. CALL MONICA 283-4098. 
Need : 2 GA's for USC, 4 GA's 
for TENN. Call John 273-9165. 
_Need USC GAs. Money no object. Call Ron x2157 
NEED TWO TENN. GA'S 
PRICE NO OBJECT! 
CALL CHRIS #3364 
WANTED: 2 USC GA's-' BURGEOISE CALIFORNIA RELATIVES WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS I.E. $$$$$$$$$$$ CALL SEAN 289·6439 
HAVE STUDENT TICKETS TO ALL GAMES PLEASE CALL 
KELLY 284-5404 
I NEED 1 USC GA. PLEASE! CALL ELLEN X4830. 
$$$$NEED 1 USC GA$$$$ $$$DOMINIC x2348$$$ 
Trade 2 Navy GAs for 2 Tenn GAs. Call Mike X3549 
Will Trade 2 USC GA's lor Two TENNGA's. Call Matt1670 
Need USC GAs please! Paul x1605 
SELLING USC TICKETS. LUIS 273·1528. 
wanted: many Navy and USC GA's whitney x4304 
HELP! I NEED 6 USC TICKETS GA'S OR STUDENTS II PLEASE CALL X1704 OR (708)249·0149 
BIG $$ For 2 Tenn GAs Marc x1689 
NEED 2 USC GA'S Steve x2366 
NEED 2 USC GA TICKETS HAVE$$$ JULIE X4842 
I NEED ONE USC GA PLEASE! CALL LISA X2558 
$$ I NEED 4 USC GA'S LINDA 272·5486 $$ 
SELLING STUD TIX BOOK OR USC 271 19 98 8 TO 11 NEED ND·USC GA TIX. WILL 
PAY BIG BUCKS!!! CALL JOE 
@ 287-4561 AFTER 6P.M. 

Hi there! Gene's my name and Insurance is my game. My only wish is that I insure that you become very wealthy. How you may ask? For merely selling me 4·6 GAs for the USC game, I can help you plan for your financial future by removing large sums of money from my wallet Seal the deal by calling me @ 291-3778. Don't call alter 10(might wake up the little Mrs.) 
Can you dig this! I am terribly interested in buying a Student ticket for Tennessee. Price is no object, unless of course you want more money than I am willing to pay you. Give Dave Bose a ring at 283·2015. If Dave is busy his personal staff will be happy to help you. Irish V-ball rules!lll!l!!lll 
Poly vou Francais? Neither do I. Now that we have something in common you should have no trouble selling me a GA or stud. tick. for USC. I am willing to make deals that are just smoking. Trust me. Call Quinn at 283-2059. 
I desperately need 1 TENN stud 
ticket! Julie 277-6806 
If you only knew how bad I need 
U.S. C. GA's!!l! 
Please call anytime x.4588 

Please make my family happy with 4 U.S.C. Gas. I will pay top$, Jenny at 3822 
Have stud tix bks for sale. Call 
x4774 or x4780 
I HAVE TWO USC GA'S 
CALL GEORGE X1002 
NEED: 
2 AIR FORCE & 4 USC GA's 
CALL JOE x1230 
USC,Ten,Navy marr. stu. tix for 
sale. 2 packs. Will sell packs or 
indiv. 277 ·5348 
YOU give me 2 USC GA'S · I'LL 
give you BIG$$. Aimee x4092. 

4 sale: Stud Tix for USC,Navy,Tenn. X4075 
will buy any 
tenn or navy 
tix. john 1811 
PERSONAL 

Can We Have A Little Support For Rocco's Tomorrow! 
Two more days of hell Ill 
Just 2 more Boys! 

I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. 
FAST EASY INCOME! 

EARN tOO'S WEEKLY STUFFING 
ENVELOPES. SEND SELF­ADDRESSED STAMPED 
ENVELOPE TO: 
FAST INCOME 
P.O. BOX 641517 CHICAGO,IL 60664-1517 
GETAWAY WEEKEND 
KOONTZ HOUSE BED 'N BREAKFAST 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE DAME 586-7090 
CLUB 23 & VIC'S SUBS are now open !rom 11 am to 3 am 
The Only Alternative Live Music and Specials (7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) Phone : 234·4015 
stronger than burt 
English classes offered 
Beatriz Call 272 97 13 

NEED RIDE TO WASH. D.C???? LEAVE 10·19 RETURN 10·25 LOOKING FOR RIDERS· 
CHUCK x3677 

I know who the toilet doogle thief is! 
........................ 
BASKETBALL! BASKETBALL! Any group wishing to request reserved weekly court time at STEPAN CENTER for this academic year. must attend a meeting TODAY, OCTOBER 16, 5:30pm, Montgomery Theatre. LaFortune. 
Rob Romer, 
It's been two years since 
your escapade on the Abbate 
homefront After working 
out hard in September. I am 
more than prepared for my 
assent on the Romer house· 
hold. So put the Alabama 
state police on red alert and 
secure all your prized pos­
sessions because your time 
has come. REVENGE will be 
sweet and the Romer house 
will never be the same. 
Doooooh Bart!l! 
HEEEE HAAAWWW!III 
To the 3 Blonde chicks: 
You'll have to take turns, 
because I honestly don't think 
you can fit three hands on the 
stick at once. 
P.S. Do they sell bagels at 
Denny's? -MCV 

AITENTION MEN AND WOMEN OF SCHOLASTIC AND WVFI: We, the only legitimate medium at Notre Dame, salute you. Your valor on the playing field was only exceeded by your sportsmanship. We congratulate you on a fine victory and do hereby challenge you to a rematch, preferrably in a sport involving physical contact and consumption of alcohoL Please reply. Love, The Big Oh. 
P.S. Stud. Govt. you lose! 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
289·1993. Office nea[ campus. 
LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes 
every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am. 
Eastern time. Train and jump the 
same day. Modern equipment and 
training programs. Licensed 
instructors. FFI call Skydive 
Hastings (616) 948·2665. 
Kelley, 
SMILE II Have fun in Dallas. 
Love, Helga (Hillary) 
ADOPTION Happy, loving couple wishes to raise your white newborn with warmth & love. Can provide financial security & education. Medical/legal expenses paid. Please answer our prayers by calling Maureen & Jim 1-800-456·2656. 
HELP MEl Desparate parents 
need 2 Navy GA's. Call Mike 
Sofield x2384 if you can help. 
"EYES FOR YOU" Thank you I Who are you? 
JAY HOSLER (cartoonist): ALCOHOL KILLED 200,000 LAST YEAR. CIGAREITES KILLED 250,000. MARIJUANA KILLED 0. GET THE FACTS BEFORE YOU JUMP ON THE GOVERNMENT BANDWAGON AND ATTACK SOMETHING BECAUSE THE TELEVISION DOES.(AND YOU KNOW WHERE THEY GET THEIR MONEY) HINT: WHY ASK WHY? 
Cool Breeze and Norton­Come on guys it's so simple. Maybe you need a refresher course. You can't beat the Lama in golf. Ayyyyy!llll Gordo 
Monica. How did the tests go? You may have won the bet, but you haven't won the warlllll Seen any good Bugs Bunny lately? -Foghorn Leghorn 
Whirl· The Sock Wars aren't over. E.G. 
Cheap Plane ticket 4 sale from Roch. NY to ND. Oct. 26 back for USC! Call Katelyn 284·4362 
Need Tenn & USC GA's Please Call Jill272·1967. [or collect (412) 837-0203.] 
I need to sell a plane ticket from SB to Cincinnati on 1 0/18. Call 284·5237. 
1 need 4 Tenn. GA's Call284-5084. 

I • 
-
--~­

page 14 Wednesday, October 16, 1991
SCOREBOARD 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL TRANSACTIONS 
Saturday, Oct. 19 EAST 
BASEBALL West VIrginia (4-2) atBoston College( 1-4) American League Massachusetts (2-4) at Connecticut ( 1-4) KANSAS CITY ROVALS-Watved Jeffrey Harvard (1-3) at Cornell (1-3) Leonard, outfielder. Vtllanova (5-0) at Delaware (5-1) MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Named Fred Stanley Hofstra (4-1) at Fordham (2-3) director of player development. Reassigned 
Brown (0-4) at Hal y Cross (5-0) Dick Hackett, vice president of marketing, Columbia ( 1-3) at Lafayette (3-2) to the position of vice president of Penn (0-4) at Lehigh (5-0) governmental affairs 
Towson St. (0-5) at Northeastern (3-2) NEW YORK YANKEES-Waived Pat Sheridan, 
Rutgers (5-1) at Penn st. (5-2) outfielder, for the purpose of giving him his Syracuse (4-2) at Pittsburgh (5-1) unconditional release. Bucknell ( 1-5) at Princeton (4-0) TEXAS RANGERS-Announced Merlo Dtez end 
Maine (1-5) at Rhode Island (3-2) Gary Green. Infielders. and Mark Parent, Navy (0-5) at Temple ( 1-S) catcher, have rejected outright assignment Dartmouth (2-2) at Vale (3-1) SOUTH to Oklahoma City of the American 
Tennessee (4-1) at Alabama (S-1) Association and become free agents. Samford (6-0) at Alabama St. (4-0-1), N TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Named Hank Zacharias 
Prairie VIew (0-6) at Alcorn St. (4-2) scouting department administrator; Bt11 South Carolina St. (5-0) vs. Bethune-Moore scouting supervisor for southern Cookman (3-2) at Fort Lauderdale, Fla. California; and Joe Siers and Alvin Rittman North Carolina A.S.T (S-1) at East scouts for Florida. Assigned Efretn Valdez, Tennessee St. (0-5), Night pitcher, outrl ght to Syracuse of the Northern Illinois (1-5) at Florida (5-1) International League Added Domingo Delaware St. (3-2) at Florida A.S.M (2-3), Martinez, first baseman, to the 40-men Night roster Announced John Stearns, manager of Middle Tennessee St. (4-1) at Florida St. Knoxville of the Southern League, and Julio (6-0) Dtvtston, pitching coach forSt Cathartnes Appalachian St. (S-2) at Furman (S-1 l of the New York-Penn League, wt11 not 
Mississippi Valley St (S-O) at Grambling return to their respective positions next St. (2-3), Night seftson Southern U ( 1-3) at Jackson St. (2-2), N Notional League Georgia Southern (3-3) at James Madison CHICAGO CUBS-Exercised the 1992 option (5-1) of Ryne Sandberg, second baseman. 
LSU (2-3) at Kentucky (2-3) Texas League Army (2-3) at Loutsvtlle (2-4) WICHITA WRANGLERS-Named Bruce Bochy Long Beach St. (1-5) at Miami (5-0) manager. Memphis St. (3-3) at Mtsstss1ppt St. (4-2) BASKETBALL 
VIrginia Union (1-0) at Morgan St. (0-6) National Basketball Auoctatlon Morehead St. ( 1-4) at Murray St (2-4), N NEW JERSEY NETS-Waived Teo Allbegovlc,
NBA PRESEASON NFL TEAM srATISTICS 
Marshall (4-1) at North Carolina St. (5-0) forward. McNeese St. (2-2-1) at NW Louisiana (3-Continental Basketball Association 
Monday's Games TOTAL YARDAGE AVERAGE PER GAME 2), Night GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Signed Jim Paul, Cleveland 130, Washington 114 AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Boston U. ( 1-5) at Richmond ( 1-4) center, and Anthony H. Jones, guard Houston 10 I, Utah 96 OFFENSE OFFENSE Georgia Tech (3-3) at South Carolina (2-FOOTBALL Golden State 110, Sacramento 100 Yards Ruah Pan Yards Rush Pus 2-2) National Football League 
Tuesday's Games Buffalo 3673 1046 1627 Buffalo 410.4 149 4 261.0 Tulane (0-7) at Southern Mtsstsstppl(3-3) CINCINNATI BENGALS-Watved Brian Blados, 
Late Games Not Included Houston 2326 540 1766 Houston 367.7 90.0 297.7 Austin Peay (3-2) at Tennessee Tech(0-6) offensive lineman, and Joe King, safety Boston I 06, New Vorl< 103 Denver 2026 731 1297 Denver 3360 121.6 216 2 Georgia (5-1) at Vanderbilt ( 1-5) Signed Rick Trumbu11, offensive tackle, and Denver vs. Los Angeles Clippers at Jets 2314 939 1375 Jets 330.6 134.1 196 4 North Carolina (4-1) at VIrginia (3-2-1) Brent Collins, linebacker. 
PIttsburgh, (n) Cincinnati 1901 752 1149 Cincinnati 316 6 125.3 191.5 Cincinnati (2-4) at VIrginia Tech (2-4) INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Waived Mark Cannon, Chicago 96, Seattle 63 Seattle 2196 753 1445 Seattle 314.0 107.6 206.4 Tennessee-Chattanooga (3-2) at Western offensive linemen Miami vs. Minnesota at Pensacola, Flo, (n) San Otego 2173 1009 1164 San Diego 310.4 144.1 166.3 Carolina ( 1-5) SEATTLE SEAHAWKS-Watved Jeff Kemp, Orlando vs Philadelphia at Mobile, Ala.,(n) Miami 2170 597 1573 Miami 310.0 65.3 224.7 Troy St. (3-3) at Western Kentucky (2-3) quarterback Dell as at San Antonio, (n) Pittsburgh 1640 653 1167 Pittsburgh 306.7 106.6 197.6 Maryland (1-4) at Wake Forest (1-4) HOCKEY Phoenix II 0, Milwaukee 69 Kansas City 2126 1006 1120 Kansas City 3040 1440 160.0 Citadel (3-2) at William 15. Mary (3-3) National Hockey League 
Wednudey's Gamu Raiders 1903 720 1163 Raiders 271.9 102 9 169.0 MIDWEST MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Acquired Tony Philadelphia at Orlando, 7:30p.m. Cleveland 1566 501 1067 Cleveland 264.7 63.5 161.2 Arkansas St. (0-7) at Akron (2-4) Joseph, right wing, from the Winnipeg Jets Los Angeles Clippers at Atlanta, 7:30p.m. Indianapolis 1647 362 1265 Indianapolis 235.3 51.7 163.6 Toledo (2-2-1) at Bowling Green (5-1) for Tyler Larter, center. New Vorl< vs. Boston at Hartford, Conn., New England 1275 514 761 New England 212.5 65.7 126.6 Illinois St. (4-2) at Eastern Illinois (2-4) NEW YORK RANGERS-Recalled Corey Mtllen, 
7:30p.m. DEFENSE Western Michigan (5-2) at Eastern center, Rick Bennett, left wing, end Per Utah vs. Cleveland at Greenvtlle, N.C., 7:30 DEFENSE Yards Rush Pass Michigan ( 1-6), Night Djoos, defenseman, from Binghamton of the 
p.m Yards Rush Pan Kansas City 266.9 106.3 162.6 Illinois (4-1) at Iowa (4-1) American Hockey League Assigned Mark Detroit at Houston, 6:30 p.m. Kansas City 2022 744 1276 Cleveland 292.5 136 7 153.6 Iowa St. (2-3) at Kansas (3-2) Janssens, center, to Binghamton for New Jersey vs Milwaukee at Green Bay, Cleveland 1755 632 92'3 Indianapolis 296.9 159 4 139.4 Central Michigan (3-1-3) at Kent (0-6) condt t1 ontng Wis., 6:30pm Indianapolis 2092 1116 976 Seattle 305 4 101.4 204.0 Ohio U. (1-4-1) at Miami, Ohio (4-1-1) QUEBEC NORDIQUES-Stgned Stephane Fiset, Golden State vs. Charlotte at Las Vegas, Seattle 2136 710 1426 Raiders 307.6 115 4 192.1 lndtana (3-1-1) at Mt chtgan (4-1) goalie, to a multiyear contract 9:30p.m Raiders 2153 606 1345 Houston 306.3 96 B 211.5 Minnesota (2-3) at Michigan St. (0-5) SAN JOSE SHARKS-Recalled Ed Courtenay, Indiana vs. Denver at Fort Collins, Colo. Houston 1650 561 1269 Pittsburgh 311 0 117.5 193.5 Oklahoma St. (0-5) at Missouri (2-2-1) forward, from Kansas City of the 9:30pm. Pittsburgh 1666 705 1161 Denver 313.3 II0.2 203.2 Kansas St. (4-1) at Nebraska (4-1) International Hockey League Sent David Thursday's Games Denver 1660 661 1219 Jets 323.0 75.9 247.1 Ohio St (4-1) at Northwestern ( 1-4) Bruce and Kevin Evans, forwards, to Kansas Phoenix vs. Atlanta at Nashville, Tenn.• Jets 2261 531 1730 SanDtego 324.0 109.9 214.1 Northwestern ( 1-4) vs. Oht o St (4-1) at City. 6:30p.m. San Otego 2266 769 1499 Buffalo 333.4 141 9 191 6 Cleveland SOCCER Washington vs. Chicago at Birmingham, Buffalo 2334 993 1341 New England 344.0 63 o 261.0 Wisconsin (3-2) at Purdue (2-3) National Professional Soccer League 
AI a., 6·30 p m. New England 2064 496 1566 Miami 346.0 136.4 207.6 Tennessee St. ( 1-5) at Southeast Mt ssourt CHICAGO POWER-Signed Tommy lslrov, Miami 2422 969 1453 Cincinnati 364.0 121.0 243 0 (1-6) Michael Richardson and Ed Puskarich, Cincinnati 2164 726 1456 NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Indiana St. (3-3) at Southwest Missouri defensemen, to 1-year contracts. 
OFFENSE St. (3-2-1)
NHL STANDINGS FOOTBALL Yards Rush COLLEGE
NATIONAL CONFERENCE Pass Southern Illinois (5-2) at Western Illinois 
OFFENSE San Francisco 376.2 113.2 265 0 (4-1-1) GLASSBORO STATE-Named Joseph Cassidy and Robert Pedrick men's assistant
Yards Rush Pan Washington 345.1 155 4 169.7 Liberty (2-3) at Youngstown St. (4-2), N
WALES CONFERENCE basketball coachesSan Francts~o 2269 679 1590 Giants 3416 153 4 166.1 SOUTHWEST
Patrick Division 
HUNTER-Named Jon Turner women's
Washington 2416 1066 1326 Detroit 335.6 ISO 3 165.5 Texas (2-2) at Arkansas (4-2), Night
W L T Pts GF GA 
assistant and junior varsity basketball
Giants 2391 1074 1317 Dallas 324.0 110.7 213.3 Texas A.S.M (3-1) at Baylor(5-1)
Washington 5 I 0 10 25 16 
Detroit coach. Announced the resignation of Michael
2015 902 1113 Chicago 315.6 99.6 216.0 Southern Methodt st ( 1-4) at Houston ( 1-4)
New Jersey 4 0 6 23 14 
Dallas 2266 Llppencott, baseball coach, to become the 
Pittsburgh 3 21 775 1493 Atlanta 306.2 115.6 192.3 Stephen F. Austin ( 1-4) at North Texas ( 1­
7 19 Chicago 1695 1296 Intramural director at Stevens Tech 
599 New Orleans 2646 116.3 166.5 3-1 ), Night
NV Rangers 3 4 0 6 16 25 
Atlanta 1649 1154 263.1 116.1 ILLINOIS-Announced Andy Kaufmann,
695 Minnesota 167.0 Colorado (3-2) at Oklahoma (4-1)
NV Islanders 2 2 5 19 20 
New Orleans 1709 lOll 63 4 forward, wtll be academically Ineligible to Philadelphia 3 3 15 20 
696 Phoenix 261.9 196.4 Texas Christian (4-1) at Rice (3-2) 
Minnesota 1962 613 1169 Green Bay 267.2 66 2 199.0 NE Louisiana (4-1-1) at Sam Houston St. play basketball this season. Phoenix 1973 564 1369 Rams 263 0 900 173.0 (4-0-1) 
Adams Division 
KANSAS-Announced Sean Tunstall, guard,Montreal 3 2 7 20 12 
was suspended Indefinitely from the 
Hartrord 2 1 5 13 II Green Bay 1603 409 1194 Tampa Bay 253.7 95.3 156 3 Texas Southern (4-2-1) vs. Southwest basketball team for a series of undisclosed
Rams 1576 540 1036 Philadelphia 246.4 746 171.9 Texas St. (3-2) at San Antonio, Night
Boston 3 3 13 19 
Tampa Bay violations of team and departmental
1522 572 950 DEFENSE San Otego St. (4-2) at Texas-El Paso Philadelphia 1725 522 1203 Yards Rush Pass (3-3-1 ), Night policiesBuffalo 3 3 15 19 
Quebec 3 3 16 17 New Orleans 209.5 53.2 556.3 FAR WEST 
LIVINGSTON-Named Mark Hubbard women's Interim basketball coach.
DEFENSE Philadelphia 221.9 760 145.9 Notre Dame (S-1) at Air Force (6-1)
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE MONMOUTH, N J.-Named Joe Scott men's
Yards Rush Pass Washington 255.3 959 159.4 Washington St. (2-4) at Arizona St.(4-1 ),N
Norris Division 
volunteer assistant basketball coach.
New Orleans 1257 319 936 Detroit 264.7 666 1776 Northern Arizona (3-3) at Boise St. (4-1 )N
W L T Pta GF GA NYU-Named Jocelyn Katsock women's Chicago 3 2 7 26 22 Philadelphia 1553 532 1021 Giants 276.9 103 9 173.0 Hewell (3-3) at Brigham Young (3-3) asslst11nt basketball coach. 
Minnesota 3 o o 6 10 6 Washington 1767 671 1116 Tampa Bay 301.5 127.5 174.0 Washington (5-0) at California (5-0) VASSAR-Named Charles L Crawford men's St. Louts 3 2 0 6 16 16 Detroit 1566 521 1067 San Francisco 302.7 120.5 162 2 Nevada (6-0) at Eastern Washington (2-4) basketball coach.
Giants 1936 727 1211 Atlanta 309.5 134.2 175.3 Idaho (3-3) at Idaho St. (2-3), Night
Toronto 2 4 o 4 20 21 
Detroit 3 Tampa Bay 1609 765 1044 Rams 314.6 110.7 2042 Weber St. (S-1) at Montana (3-3) Smythe Division San Francisco 1616 723 1093 Green Bay 320 5 76 3 2442 Wyoming (2-4-1) at New Mexico ( 1-6),_ N Atlanta 1657 
3 14 19 

605 1052 Chicago 322.7 122.7 200.0 Rams 1669 664 
Vancouver 5 t 0 10 23 16 
Los Angeles 2 1 2 6 16 16 1225 Dallas 3270 97 4 229.6 
KK~~~OOOOOOOOOOh"~~ Green Bay 1923 456 1465 Minnesota
Winnipeg 2 2 5 16 19 329.9 126 9 203.0 "j"'. Calgary 2 3 0 4 23 IS 
Chicago 1936 736 1200 Phoenix 331.3 134.4 196.9 Dallas 2269 662 1607 
$1 off Any Burger Combo $1 off :~
Edmonton 4 1 3 13 24 Minnesota 2309 666 1421San Jose 5 0 2 19 30 Phoenix 2319 941 1376 
with Coupon :~ 
Monday's Gamu "j~ Hartford 4, Montreal ; Washington 5, NV. Rangers 3 
Live Bands Coming Nov 1st :~ 
Tuuday'a Gemu Late Game Not Included 
Thur • Sun Molly Hatchet :~ 
Detroit 3, Edmonton 1 Pittsburgh 7, NV. Islanders 6, OT St. Louts 5, Toronto 1 Minnesota at Calgary, (n) 
w" Halloween
SINCE 1949 

Wednesday's Gamu 
~ Specials every 
Costume Party
Buffalo at Montreal, 7·35 p.m. Grat Brlndl, Great Slrvlcl, Grat Prices, Rentals New Jersey at NV Rangers, 7:35 p.m. 
nite on food Oct 31st 
AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTALS
Hartford at Winnipeg, 6:35p.m. 
1516 N. Ironwood
Mon -Thur
San Jose at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
and beverage Cash Prizes 
, 11-7 pm Fn 11-6 pm 220 W Manon Sat 10-4 pm 
$1 off Any Burger Combo $1 off 
SPECIALISTS IN GUrrAR & BASS REPAIRS/ 
Owned and Operated by NO Alumni 
~--­



Blues stop Toronto; Penguins down Islanders in OT 

Big Ten reshuffling is a suprise 
Lemieux twice and Jar.omir Red Wings beat the Edmonton Jagr tied the game at 11:43 of Oilers 3-1 Tuesday night for the third period to send the their first victory of the season. game into overtime. The Red Wings were the last 
Coffey's assist on the game­of the 22 NHL teams to record a winner gave him 1,051 points victory, as they had only for his career, one behind Denis managed a tie in their first four Potvin's NHL record for a de­games. fenseman. Coffey also tied Shawn Burr gave the Red Potvin's assist record with 742. Wings the lead for good when 
he beat Bill Hanford with a slap 
Red Wings 3, Oilers 1 shot from the top of the faceoff DETROIT -Shawn Burr's circle at 17:36 of the middle pe­second-period goal broke a 1-1 riod. Brent Fedyk iced the game tie, and Tim Cheveldae stopped with his first goal with 51 sec­18 of 19 shots as the Detroit onds left in the game. 
Steelers face QB dilemna 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -The New control out there and he re­
York Giants are no strangers to grouped us. 
quarterback controversies -"We started believing again. 
just ask Jeff Hostetler or Phil It definitely was what turned 
Simms. Thanks to the Giants, us around." 
the Pittsburgh Steelers aren't, The Steelers haven't had a 
either. quarterback controversy since 
Coach Chuck Noll certainly Brister beat out Todd 
wasn't asking for one, but he Blackledge in training camp in 
got one after backup quarter­1988. They've certainly got 
back Neil O'Donnell led a one now -or at least they will 
memorable 20-point second­when Brister's sore right knee 
half comeback in New York's gets well. 
tense 23-20 victory over the Even Brister, who was just 6 
Steelers on Monday night. of 16 for 97 yards before exit­
ing, said he wouldn't blame 
Until Bubby Brister was Noll for starting O'Donnell. 
pulled midway through the "If he plays well, he should 
third quarter -the first time play," Brister said. "He's a 
he's been benched in more buddy of mine and I'm happy 
than a year -the Steelers for him. Every team needs two 
were. going nowhere. But good quarterbacks." 
under O'Donnell, who had Noll said it's not healthy for 
thrown all of five career a team to wonder from week to 
passes, they· went where they week who will start at quarter­
hadn't gone the whole game. back, but said O'Donnell 
The end zone. Twice. In less played so well that he deserves 
than five minutes. to play. 
Noll wouldn't make it "He did a great job," he 
official Tuesday, but left little said. 
doubt that O'Donnell is the Not only did O'Donnell com­
frontrunner to start Sunday. plete 11 of 21 passes for 152 
"We want to be able to play yards and two touchdowns, his 
the people who will get the job presence jump-started a 
done," Noll said. Steelers' running game that 
Running back Barry Foster until then had mostly run right 
said it was no coincidence the into Lawrence Taylor. 
Steelers turned the game Under Brister, Pittsburgh 
around when O'Donnell's turn rushed just six times for 34 
came. yards and passed 16 times -a 
"We were flat, we were rather unusual game plan for a 
looking bad on national TV, we quarterback who was limping 
were embarrassing ourselves," with a strained right knee. 
Foster said. "Neil showed great Under O'Donnell, the Steelers 
poise; he's good and he's got to carried 12 times for 114 yards. 
play. He gave us something we an average of 9.5 yards per 
needed. We were kind of out of carry. 
Blues 5, Maple Leafs 1 ST. LOUIS (AP) -Vincent Riendeau stopped 37 shots and Rich Sutter set up two first-pe­riod goals as the St. Louis Blues defeated the Toronto Maple Leafs 5-1. 
It was the Blues' third straight victory at home after an 0-2 start on the road and the Maple Leafs' third straight loss. 
Five St. Louis players scored a goal apiece against Maple 
CHICAGO (AP) -The rise of Illinois and the fall of Michigan State have been the big sur­prises this season for Big Ten football coaches. 
"Illinois is doing it in a transition period and you have to be impressed," Minnesota's John Gutekunst said Tuesday in the league's weekly teleconfer­ence of coaches. 
Illinois lost nine defensive starters, including Moe Gardner, Mel Agee and Darrick Brownlow, from a team that shared the Big Ten title last season. But the Illini, following last week's 10-7 victory over Ohio State, are tied for the Big Ten lead with a 2-0 record and are 4-1 overall. 
Michigan State, ranked among the top 25 in the pre­season, is 0-5 with unexpected losses to Central Michigan and Rutgers. 
Except for a dropped pass in the end zone in the closing sec­onds of a 23-19 loss to Missouri, 13th-ranked Illinois could be undefeated. 
"Obviously, Illinois has done a lot more than anyone ex­pected," said Michigan's Gary Moeller. "It's a very impressive team. Beating Ohio State puts them in the thick of things. They should constantly im­prove." 
Illinois, along with fourth­ranked Michigan and unranked Indiana, top the Big Ten at 2-0. 
"Illinois? Yes, I'm surprised," said Indiana's Bill Mallory. "We knew their offense would be Leafs goaltender Grant Fuhr, who shut out the Blues Oct. 10 in Toronto. Fuhr stopped 19 shots before getting replaced by Jeff Reese after Ron Sutter scored on a rebound shot to make it 5-1 at 6:27 of the third period. 
Sutter fed Garth Butcher for a breakaway and passed to Gino Cavallini for an easy tap-in to get the Blues off to a fast start. Five St. Louis players scored a goal apiece against Fuhr. 
good. Defensively they lost a lot 
of good people but they've done 
a great job in bringing along a 
young defense. 

''I'm surprised at Michigan 
State," said Mallory, whose 
Hoosiers oyened the Big Ten 
campaign with a 31-0 triumph 
over the Spartans. ''I'm sur­
prised they are where they are 
now. Yet, too, when you play 
them, you'd better respect them 
because anything can happen." 
Most of the coaches said in­
juries have caused the downfall 
of Michigan State and Illinois' 
John Mackovic probably said it 
best. 

"George Perles has had a 
number of injuries on top of 
having a young team," said 
Mackovic. "Then there's the 
switching of quarterbacks and 
it's all hard to overcome." 
Perles likened Illinois to his Michigan State team of a few years ago. The Spartans won the Big Ten title in 1987. They .finished second in 1988 and then tied for third in 1989 be­fore sharing in the four-way 
championship tie last season. 
"Illinois is in pretty good 
shape," said Perles. "They re­
turned their quarterback (Jason 
Verduzco) and they're doing 
good things offensively and 
defensively. It was like we did 
two years ago. We lost a lot of 
defensive players and still came 
back." 

As for his own team, Perles 
said "It is a surprise that we are 
in the position we are. I never 
anticipated being 0-5." 
There is the sense the 
Penguins 7, I slanders 6 UNIONDALE, N.Y. -Phil Bourque scored 2:30 into over­time to cap a five-goal rally fu­eled by Mario Lemieux's hat trick, leading the Pittsburgh Penguins over the New York Islanders 7-6. 
Derek King also had the fastest hat trick in Islander history -78 seconds -to help New York mount a 6-2 lead be­fore the Pittsburgh comeback. 
Mark Recchi scored one goal, 
Spartans can come back. 
"We've been struggling but we've gotten better on offense," said Perles. "I see some things that are encouraging." 
Michigan State scored a total of 20 points in its first four games but did well offensively in last week's 45-28 loss to Michigan. 
"Michigan State executed two fine drives that I didn't like to see against our defense," said Moeller. "They've been hit with key injuries to people they couldn't afford to lose. Settling Qn a quarterback will help. It's a young team that's going to get better and better." 
Perles has settled on Jim Miller as his quarterback. Miller completed 30 of 39 pa,sses for 302 yards and two touchdowns against Michigan. 
Purdue's Jim Colletto said he is surprised by Michigan State's collapse but not by the rise of Illinois. 
"Michigan State surprises me but things change ~st," said Colletto. "Illinois doesn't surprise me. They graduate guys and then bring in guys who know the systetn to replace them. It's an ideal situation and they keep on cooking." 
Francis Peay of 
· Northwestern credited Illinois' offense for the fine showing of the defense. 
"Illinois is playing well on offense and at this point, the offense has kept the defense off the field. They had a good nu­cleus on defense and their young linebackers like Dana Howard are doing a good job." 

Wednesday, October 16, 1991 The Observer page 17 
SPORlS BRIEFS 
P.W. clinches Blue division 
•The YMCA-South Bend table tennis club is announcing its wintor league. Anyone interested in forming a three-man team from Notrn Dame, to compete for $700 in prizes, eall Brad at 654­
IB4ri. 
•Stepan Court time requests will be taken tonight in the Montgornnry Theatre, La Fortune at 5:30 p.m. All groups wishing rnsorvnd time for their group to play basketball or volleyball, must be at the moding. This scheduln will be for the entire academic 
ynar. 
•Notre 
Dame Rowing Club: There will be a meeting Tuesday night at 7:30 p.m. in 1H4 Ninuwland for all varsity rowers. It will cover the fall break trip and the ergathon, so bring your dwekbooks. Tho racing tanks are in and will be out at the nwnting. 

•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted in writing, Sunday through Thursday until 5:00 p.m.,at The Observer on the 3rd floor of LaFortune, for next day printing. Please write your brief, the days it is to bP run. and your name and number. 


If you see news happening call us at 239-5303 and let us know. The Observer 

Computer Science Graduates 
If You're In The Dark About An EDP Audit Career, We'll Show You The light. 
If you're a bright, aggressive, and technically skilled Computer Science Graduate, we can sum up your future in three little letters...EDP. 
Because EDP Auditing is a dynamic way to set your data pro­
cessing talents in sync with the fast paced business world. And you won't find a com­pany with a faster pace than UJB Financial. 
0Rn:~~Jlii"S~~~' ~~~~~~!!:~:'~ft::~~ 
ecrUI Ill and applications. 
1 

No::~~~;::,wr!\i)\,~;:;,,,:&1!:i5r,,,
....,.,.,.,.,.,.,.w.·sc•:~~E~i¥. 

We're as clearly focused on the future as you are. With $13 billion in assets, an historic track record, a progressive outlook, and solid train­ing designed to keep us all growing. 
Howard, Walsh finish season in tie for Gold title 
By ELAINE J.C. DeBASSIGE Sports Writer P.E. 22, Lewis 14 
In a game of explosive plays, the Pyros lit up Cartier Field to surprise Lewis with a 22-14 win 
What started out as a group of mostly motivated freshmen, has turned into a team to be reckoned with. Sophomore Nikki Ebright scored two touchdowns, one of which came ofl' a long pass from sophomore Alison Kossler. Sophomore Kelly Dwyer caught a Kossler pass for another six points. Freshmen Kim McGuire was good for two 2-point conversions. 
The Chickens were hurt by P.E.'s big plays. However, they did not leave empty-handed. Sophomore Joanne Petro had a touchdown and sophomore Julie Fleck was all over the field. Fleck scored the other Lewis touchdown and made both conversions. 
The Pyros finished the season at 3-2 and the Chickens finished at 2-3. 
Farley 20, Knott 14 
Farley managed to collect their first win of the season by pulling out a hard fought battle 
We're coming to campus to talk with students like you about our EDP Auditing opportunities. These growth-tracked positions involve participation in the audit reviews of our data processing centers and 
accounting courses, we'd like to meet with you on Friday, November 15. And find out about our commitment to internal growth. 
For additional information, please contact your Career Center. 
DUJB 
riQF/NANCIAL 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/1-1/V 
over Knott, 20-14 in overtime. 
For Knott, senior Ruth Karnak and junior Lisa Miller scored. Junior Sue Schweizer was successful in the two point­afters. However, their efforts were not enough to get by a de­termined Farley team. 
Junior Michelle Bresnahan had two critical touchdowns. One which came in overtime to put Farley over the top. Senior Laurie Sommerlad had two conversions. The receivers played extremely well according to Finest coach Doug Orsagh. 
Farley was aided by two in­terceptions from senior Kathy Allred and sophomore Gretchen Ganc. 
Farley eluded a shutout sea­son to finish 1-4 while Knott matched its 2-3 record from last year. 
P.W. 6, Siegfried 0 
In a game to determine the Blue division winner, P.W. pulled one out against Siegfried 6-0. 
Plaid Wave quarterback Bethany Riddle scored the only points via a 60-yard punt re­turn. In the second half, sophomore safety Kristen Herring had an interception for a merciless P.W. dnfense. 
The P.W. win gave the Plaid Wave sole possnssion of the di­vision title with a 3-2 record and a definite playoff berth. Siegfried finished in a three­way tie for second place with Lewis and P.E. with a .3-2 re,cord. 
B.P. 12, Badin 0 

The Blitz dodged a losing season with a 12-0 shutout of Badin. The women's interhall defending champions earned themselves a playoll' berth in a big win over Badin. 
Lisa Peterson and freshmen Karen Dubay both caught passes from senior Lynn Erven to put up the twelve points for B.P. 
Badin came out of the sea­son 1-4; no improvement from last year. B.P. looks toward the post-season with their 3-2 season. 
Off-Campus 12, Howard 6 
Off-Campus were the spoil­ers Sunday night to ruin an un­defeated season for Howard by winning 12-6 in overtime. 
Howard's Sarah Donnelly scored on a punt rPturn to put them on the board. 
Senior Kristy Alkidas ran both touchdowns for the Heathens. Her overtime score crushed Howard's hope for a perfect season. Senior Amy Kraft put her hand in the vic­tory by coming up with a sec­ond half interception to keep Off-Campus in the game. 
Howard will go into the playoffs with a 4-1 rncord along with Off-Campus which closed the season with a 2-3 record. 
Walsh 6, Lyons 0 

In their first shutout of the season, Walsh pounced on Lyons for a 6-0 victory. 
Senior Liz Toohey put Walsh on the board with a touchdown. Strong defense from Walsh kept Lyons out of the endzone. 
Walsh has definitely im­proved .from last year. They went from a wipe losing season to a solid 4-1 record. Lyons, on the other hand, finished 1-4. 
Post -season pairings set 

By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
The women's interhall regu­lar season ended last Sunday. Pasquerilla West captured the Blue division title while Howard and Walsh tied for the Gold division championship. 
Seedings have been deter­mined for tournament play. Howard earned top seeding with a 4-1 record including a win over co-division champ Walsh. Walsh is seeded third behind Pasquerilla West. P.W. received the top seeding in their division after defeating Siegfried and P.E. in the regu­lar season. Siegfried is seeded fourth after besting P.E. which is seeded lifth. 
Breen-Phillips and Off­Campus are seeded sixth and seventh respectively after winning a coin toss with Siegfried and Lewis. Lewis, Knott, and Farley were tied at the end of the season. All three were 1-1 in head to head matchups with each other. Lewis made the playoffs because they had the highest point differential against Knott and Farley. Lewis enters the playoffs seeded eighth. 
Post-season play will begin after the break with the lirst round of games featuring sev­eral intense matchups. 

• 



page 18 The Observer Wednesday, October 16, 1991 
• 
SPORlS SHORTS 

Men 
continued from page 20 
MacLeod, the eighth­
winningest head coach in NBA 
history. "They're lean and 
they're body fat is down, which 
means they're in good shape. 
You have to be able to think 
about your execution and if 
you're not in shape, you wind 
up thinking about how tired 
you are." 
After a productive off-season, 
Women 
continued from page 20 
shows when I'm on the court-my enthusiasm for the game and trying to stay positive at all times."Fellow recruit Audrey Gomez also arrives on campus with a long list of accolades. A third-team All­American from Saint John Vianney, the 5-7 point guard averaged 25.5 points, 5.1 assists and 5.9 rebounds in be­ing named the Gatorade Player of the Year for New Jersey. 
Gomez also averaged less than three turnovers per game, a welcome number on an Irish team which averaged over 20 turnovers last season. Pairing with returning starter Coquese Washington (8.9 ppg, 5.5 apg), the point position appears to be in good hands for years to come. 
"Audrey is a very talented ballhandler," McGraw said. "She sees the floor extremely well and is a very good passer" 

ease server 
Procter&Gamble 
GAINI COMP EDGE 
FEATURING 
North Dining Hall Blue Room 
Reception Following Presentation 
Tower doesn't foresee any problems with Irish condition­ing. "We'll be in shape this year-there's no doubt about that. Everybody worked hard this fall and bulked up and got the waist lines down," said Tower. "We're not at peak shape, but we're getting there." MacLeod has high expectations of Tower, Ellis, Sweet, and Elmer Bennet for the season. After a 12-20 record last year, the four hope to avoid being part of consecutive losing seasons, an occurrence that the 
"Everywhere I went, I took a ball along," Gomez explained. "If I was walking somewhere, I'd just grab a ball and start dribbling. Also, my dad was a point guard, so he helped me out a lot as well." 
For Gomez, the decision to attend Notre Dame was an easy one. 
"I didn't give anyone else a chance," she said. "I wanted to come here since the summer before my senior year, and once I came here (for her official campus visit), I committed right away." 
It also wasn't a difficult choice for 6-0 forward Letitia Bowen. From nearby Buchanan, Mich., Bowen was an All-State selection and runner-up to Markita Aldridge (now playing for UNC-Charlotte) as Michigan's Miss Basketball. 
She averaged 26 points and 15 rebounds her senior year, and should team up with se­niors Margaret Nowlin (10.8 ppg, 7.5 rpg) and Comalita Haysbert (12.5 ppg, 4.9 rpg in 12 games). and sophomore 
Irish last experienced 30 years ago. 
"I enjoyed being with the col­lege guys," said MacLeod. "There's a lot to teach and they're eager to learn. They want to do well." 
The task will be difficult, as eighteen of Notre Dame's 28 opponents played in either the NIT or NCAA tournament last season. The Irish open with Butler on Nov. 26 before hitting the road for 10 out their next eleven games. 
Kristin Knapp (7.2 ppg, 3.8 rpg) to form a formidable frontcourt. 
"Somebody told me rebound­ing is 70 percent desire and 30 percent ability," Bowen said. ''I'm not someone who's really fancy or makes a lot of moves. I just work hard on the court, and I want the ball." 
Like her fellow recruits, Bowen has great expectations for the upcoming season. 
''I've always believed that with God, I can do all things," she said. "I think I bring a spirit to the team that no matter who we're playing, even if it's the number one team, we can win." 
"I want to win the NCAA championship," Gomez added. "If we all work together and have our minds focused on that one goal, we can achieve it." 
And McGraw shares in her three newest players' excite­ment. 
"They're all going to make a major contribution to our pro­gram this year," she said. "It looks good for the future of Notre Dame basketball. It gives us a solid foundation to build on." 
-~--~---~ ----------~----·-~~~ 
Wednesday, October 16, 1991 

JAY HOSLER 

Tttf. 1/IIS"ffii)CT]ON S SIW Tll iNSERT ntE: Mi\t.~ fARI OF CHoRD'A' INTb ~ 
f'f:/llA~£ f/111f OF 


CROSSWORD 
l) Edward Julius Collegiate CW8710 ACROSS 42.Faux­
22 Lowest point 
43 In -(behind in24 Fine earth

1 -system payment)
25 Fedora
6 Disagree with, in 45 Dumbbell
26 Large grasshopper
law 47 Lubricates
28 Zuider­
11 Baseball hall-of­49 Neighbor of Turkey
29 Put on a new book
farner, -Baker 50 -one's time 
cover
13 Reduces in rank 51 Turkish chamber 15 Show excessive 52 Snakelike fish
31 What Edmund Hillaryconquered
devotion 53 Sidekick (abbr.)
33 No -, ands, or
16 Learned 54 Newer film versions
buts
17 Govern 57 One TV show
34 Here: Fr.
IB European country 60 Most sarcastic
35 Gave a conceited
(abbr.) 61 Slanders
smile 39-Delta
20 wa·ll ach and Whitney 62 Aroma 
21 Bed support 63 Physician of old 
DOWN 
1 Constructed with standardized units 2 Try to equal or 

surpass3 Issue a new lease 4 Retirement account 5 Famous king 6 -Fuehrer 7 Flightless bird 8 Statistical 
measures 9 Put into service 
10 Puts in a new floor 11 Stern 12 Nullify 13 Ridicule 14 Musical group19 Miss Williams 22 Former world leader, and family 
23 Las Vegas hotel 
26 Novelist Franz ­
27 Knocks down by punching 30 Abbreviation before a date 
32 Dolores Del ­
35 Animal tracks 
36 Certain race horses 
37 Muslim 
38 Most arid 
39 Dispatched 
40 Offensive, as an odor 41 -Purchase 44 Before 46 Celebrations 48 Tree product50 Fundamental 55 Famous doll 56 Superlative suffix 58 Slangy throw 59 "-nightingale.•. " 
CAMPUS 

Wednesday 
7 p.m. Film: "Once Up!'ln a Time in the West." Annen berg Auditorium. 
LECTURES 
Wednesday 
4:20 p.m. Colloquium: "The Dawn of Gauge Theories," Max Dresden, Stanford University and SLAC. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by physics department. 
MENU 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Fettucini Alfredo Grilled Chicken Breast Baked Orange Roughy Spaghetti w/Sauce Sirloin Steak Sandwich Vegi Crepe w/Orient Sauce 
Deli Bar 
COUNSELOR'S CORNER 
Dear Counselor, 
I have a problem which may seem a bit ridiculous to you but It is very real for me. I wouldn't say I'm incredibly intelligent, but I've been more successful In school than any of my brothers and sisters. My mother takes great pride In my accomplishments. 
Last semester I got straight A's and my mom proceeded to In­form all my relatives and her friends of the news. I would rather not be in this spotlight my mom has put me in. I feel bad for my brothers and sisters. I know they work as hard, if not harder, as I do in school -they deserve to be congratulated as much as I do. I'm beginning to sense great animosity from them. 
I've tried to speak with my mom about tho subject, explaining that my grades are personal and confidential. She maintains It's a mother's right to be proud of her children. 
How do you suggest I get my mom to stop "bragging" about me and handle the situation with my siblings? 
Bright, Embarrassed, and Under 
Pressure at N.D. 
Dear B.E.U.P. (at N.D.), 
Early on, young parents become inflicted with an insatiable need to adore. Every expression, every movement of the neonate Is ap­plauded with an almost obnoxious energy. 
Adolescence may bring a certain lively tension to the homefront, so much so that parents sometimes seem relieved when you pack and head out for college. Your efforts at leaving, growing up, and this transition may bring out some of their strongest parental feelings. Some parents become especially critical during this time, looking over the shoulder of all your decisions. Others become adoration machines once more, memorializing your every move. The Important thing to recognize is that this is a time when parents are trying to figure out how they are supposed to see and respond to you, just as you are attempting to work out a changing relationship with your parents. 
So, all that being said, how do you handle a doting mom? Well, she seems pretty determined to sing your praises, and I think young adults can become frustrated In efforts to stop a parent from doing anything they are committed to. It seems that you might be better off to trust in the strength of the relationships around you. Friends, relatives and siblings are fully capable of putting on sunglasses and seeing you simply for who you are. Your siblings are likely to also be able to eventually take mom's ravings with an appropriate grain of salt. Mom may have the proud mother's disease, but it's not likely to be terminal. 
..
Coming to Stepan -~enter November 19th 
The Bo Deans 
$8.00 ND/SMC Students 
Watch for further details 

STlJOF.NT UNION BOARU 
f ~ I t I • t ·I 1 I I I ' ••·.1 t 1t ·I I t I ..4 t .4 A,\
t .. o t o 1 f • It J • oo & • • o o " t o • o * •t <I 4 " .. 'I" • • t " 0 t • I 0 .. t 4 •• ·• 4 oil • .... ,t ... I 
.. Sports 
page 20 Wednesday, October 16, 1991 
By RENE FERRAN MCC's automatic bid to the Associate Sports Editor NCAA tournament, a talented core of veterans and a recruit­
Last season, the Notre Dame ing class rated third-best in the women's basketball team went country by Dick Vitale's 23-6, was ranked among the Basketball Yearbook, the Irish top 25 teams in the country for appear poised to do just that. much of the season-the first time the Irish had ever cracked "The team this year has a new the poll-and won its third con­attitude about it. We have more secutive conference title. of a team cohesiveness," said 
Even with its regular season Irish coach Muffet McGraw. 
success. however. Notre Dame "One of our strengths this year 
did not receive its first-ever will be that we're a more well­
NCAA tournament bid. and fin­balanced team." 
ished a disappointing eighth at The marquee player of the 
the National Women's freshman class is Michelle 
Invitational Tournament after Marciniak. Named the 1991 
going in as the top seed. Gatorade, Parade and Naismith 
Player of the Year, she averaged 
Further, three starters grad­23 points, four assists and three uated from the '91 squad. steals per game for Allentown Karen Robinson topped the all­Central Catholic. She was time career scoring list, while recruited by such highly Krissi Davis and Sara Liebscher successful programs as (now an Irish assistant) also left Tennessee and Texas, but the 5­their names scattered 9 guard spurned them all. throughout the record books. 
.. 
Notre Dame opened practices "I didn't go to a so-called for the 1991-92 season yester­powerhouse school because day morning full of high hopes they've already been there, and of improving on last year's ac­Notre Dam~ is in a great posi­complishments. Armed with the tion to keep moving up," 
.... 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Women's IH results 
Pasquerilla West and Pasquerilla East may collide again in post­season play. See inside for story. 
Men's basketball prepares for a fast-paced season 
By DAVE MCMAHON MacLeod, returning to the Monday, the senior tipped the 
Associate Sports Editor collegiate level after spending scales at 184, with his body fat 
16 years as an NBA coach, was decre.asing from 6.9 to 4.8 
pleased with his first look at the percent. 
First-year • coach John Irish. MacLeod has said that the 1991 "It was a good first day for "I dieted a lot in addition to version of the Notre Dame us," said MacLeod, who took the lifting," said Sweet, who led men's basketball team will im-· over the Notre Dame position the team last season with 16.3 plement an uptempo style of after 20-year coach Digger points per game. "It's my last go 
play, a strategy that hasn't been Phelps resigned in April. "Like a around at the college level and I synonymous with Irish lot of first day workouts, we definitely want to go out with a basketball in at least twenty were trying to go too fast at bang. [Dropping the weight] years.lf their opening practice times and we had a lot of phys­was something I had to do to on Tuesday was any indication. ical contact." help my game and help my 
the Irish will be true to his position as a leader on this word. Aft~ successful workouts team." under the direction of strength 
Opening with over thirty min­and conditioning coach Billy Boyer dropped from 185 (10.7 utes of non-stop conditioning Ray Martinov during the sum­percent) to 178 (7. 7), while drills, the Irish finished with a mer and fall, the Irish have forward LaPhonso Ellis dropped barrage of transition drills that shaped their physiques in order only two pounds from 241, but seemed unfitting, or at least to implement a fast-paced decreased his body fat from unfamiliar, for Notre Dame game. When the team recorded 10.9 to 7.9 percent. Ellis also basketball. body fat percentages at the end increased his bench press from 
"It was a totally new situa­of August, most players thou~ht 280 to 295 pounds. tion," said thee-point specialist some improvement was needed. In playing a fast-paced of­Brooks Boyer. "It didn't even A second check on Monday fense, the Irish will have to seem like we were in the ACC. revealed that the weightroom concern themselves with things We've got a new coach, a new received a healthy dose of other than their stamina. attitude-a new everything. It's activity from the squad. "They've spent a lot of time .on really exciting and I'm looking Senior forward Daimon Sweet their conditioning," said froward to the season." weighed 196 pounds in August. see Men/ page 18 
1991-1992 season filled with questions 

Marciniak said. ''I'm really looking forward to being part of the process. I like being the underdog and having the chal­lenge in front of me to go for." 
Although a prolific scorer at Allentown, Marciniak also pos­sesses excellent passing skills, a talent she would like to show­case on the Joyce ACC floor. 
"I love to create shots for other people," she said. "That's something people have over­looked about me because I scored so much in high school." 
"She's capable of filling the role of a scorer," McGraw added, "but we're not going to depend on her to score a lot." 
As the top-rated recruit in the country, expectations will be high for Marciniak to produce right away for the Irish. But she takes it all in stride. 
"I look at pressure as a chal­lenge," Marciniak said. "If you take basketball too seriously, it's not fun anymore. You have to keep it in perspective. 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey "I love to play, and I think it 
The men's basketball team will be looking to senior LaPhonso Ellis, shown here in 1990 against Kentucky, to lead the the Irish this year . 
see Women/ page 18 

Air Force is the task at hand for Irish Football 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
against Pittsburgh, Ridgely has 
Sports Editor earned a start at left tackle 
against the Air Force Academy. 
It was just a good defensive 
As far as Lou Holtz is con­performance."cerned, the middle of the sea­Yet the meticulous Holtz was son is too early to be discussing not as extolling of his team's possible bowl game show­ofl'ensive performance. downs. "Offensively we didn't play
"I dislike any talk except really well," Holtz said frankly.about Air Force," said Holtz. "Mirko Jurkovic has been play­"At this point, bowl talk is like ing so well; he has n~ally been having a patient on a respirator .d, an excellent football player. and you talking about having a Fisher DeBerry Derek Brown has been equallyhandball game next week. Let's important at tight end. Jerome get off the respirator and go evaluate both Notre Dame's Bettis and Tony Brooks are also 
performance against Pittsburgh 
from there." playing well. But we never got
However Holtz, speaking at and strategies for the upcoming 
into a rhythm. We didn't 
Air Force game. 

his weekly teleconference, did control the line, but you have to
"Against the University of
give an evaluation of the Irish give Pitt lots of credit for that." place in the national champi­Pittsburgh I thought that de­While giving out crPdit, I Ioltz 
onship picture. fensively we played very well, 
turned his attention to the Air "Overall, this football team is probably as good as we have Force Academy, which has played in a long time," re­
not of national championship rolled out to a 6-1 (4-1 in the caliber," said Holtz. "That is the marked Holtz. "Our tackling WAC) start this season under furthest thing from our minds. was pretty good with the excep­eighth-year head coach Fisher This is just a football team tion of the touchdown. DeBerry.trying to find its identity. A "Demetrius DuBose, John "Defensively this is a typical great team does it day after day Covington, the whole sec­Air Force team," noted Holtz. 
and week after week and we ondary, Eric Jones, Bryant "They slant and stunt and do a 
Young and Troy Ridgely all
just haven't done that." variety of other things. The last 
Bowl game and championship played excellent football games. considerations aside, Holtz did Because of his performance see Holtz I page 1 6 





