
--------~------------------------~---­
/ 
i _i 
-// 


~·~~~t
·1\. --\,~s
•··-·\l.\)

. •· c.
\. ~· 
" '(
--c.!:::}\ 

·8&· 
1842·1992 SESQUICENlfNNIAL 

SaintMa~s Colle~ 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 49 FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 8, 1991 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

CLC discusses student input on future du Lac changes 

By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 
Student input into the revision of du Lac was the focus of Thursday's Campus Life Council 
(CLC) meeting. 
The most pressing issues concern the expectation of stu­dent behavior such as the alco­hol policy, said William Kirk, Assistant Vice President for Residence Life. He said the council considers student opin­
ions, whether verbal or written, but it just doesn't always show up. 
The Office of Residence Life, 

Local coalition takes stand against drugs 
By JULIE BARRETT News Writer 
No dealers means no drugs, according to a new public ser­vice announcement sponsored by the United Committee Against Drugs and Alcohol Abuse. 
Local neighborhood organi­zations such as UCADAA are getting tough in getting rid of drug dealers and drug houses from their streets. A hot line has been installed for people to report suspected drug dealers and crack houses in their neighborhoods, said Gladys Muhammed, a member of the St. Joseph's Neighborhood Task Force committee. 
Drug and alcohol abuse is a real problem here in St. Joseph's County, ND Community Relations Director Jim Roemer said at the St. Joseph's County Coalition Against Drugs meeting on Wednesday. 
"We need to show a real con­cern through a united effort to resist and provide treatment for drugs and alcohol at all levels of the community," Roemer said. 
University President Father Edward Malloy, who is a mem­ber of President Bush's Advi­sory Council Against Drugs, and members of the coalition's ten committees, their professions ranging from judges to teachers, attended the meeting and discussed their progress and plans for the future of the coalition. 
"The criminal justice commit­tee has been very successful with its Drug and Alcohol Court with its drug treatment and pre-trial supervision pro­grams," said St. Joseph's County Circuit Court Judge Terry Crone, who is a member of the coalition's criminal jus­tice committee. 
Crone hop~s that the federal government will appreciate the Court's success and renew the federal grant for the Court in January. 
The neighborhood task force committee discussed the lack of youth involvement as a major weakness in the community's efforts to combat drugs, said Muhammed. 
rectors and administrators ap­prove changes in du Lac, which is revised every two years. Anything passed by the CLC must be approved by Professor Patricia O'Hara, the vice presi­dent for Student Affairs. 
The administration has no real way of knowing how stu­dents feel prior to making a de­cision, said Joseph Blanco, stu­dent body president and CLC chairman. "We want to be able to have more of a discussion because writing letters isn't al­ways as effective in communi­cating the students' opinions," 
"We are focusing on creating more youth programs in the neighborhoods to get them more involved in the fight against drugs," she said. 
Other issues discussed were pre-employment drug testing in the workplace, high school and college drug and alcohol educa­tion programs and treatment programs available in the county. 
Malloy and eight chairpersons from the St. Joseph County coalition will attend the National Coalition Against Drugs conference January 8-10 in Washington, D.C. 
"The conference will focus on the anti-drug coalitions coast to coast and their efforts to get drugs out of the neighborhoods and the workplace," said Mal­loy, who will be the program director for the conference. "There will he a broad cross­section from the government, law enforcement, therapeutic professionals and neighborhood organizations represented at the conference." 
Blanco said. 
According to Father Michael Sullivan, Carroll Hall rector, the rational function of du Lac is to express university policy. "This is best done by a group like CLC where specific issues are addressed and constructive input is given," said Sullivan. 
In reality, Sullivan said, it isn't practical to have a process which includes students as du Lac is revised because duLac is 
a product of the initiative of the administration. Constructive input from the students should be a response to already pub­

lished data rather than future changes, he said. 
"Little people know of the CLC duties or purposes, and this in fact stifles its effectiveness," said Joe Wilson, Student Senate member. He said students need to be informed about the coun­cil and its members. 
The next CLC meeting will continue to address the most 

TENNESSEE WEEKEND 
Friday 9 a.m.·S p.m. Christmas Craft Show, LaFortune, Theodore's, 2nd floor. 3 p.m. Campus tour, departing from Statue of Our Lady, Main Gate. 
6:45 p.m. Band Step-off for Pep Rally, Koons Band Building. 7 p.m. Pep Rally, JACC Basketball Arena. 9 p.m. Shenanigans Anniversary Concert, Washington Hall. 
Saturday 6:30, 7:15 & 11 :30 a.m. Mass, Crypt. 9 a.m.-1 a.m. Christmas Craft Show, LaFortune, Theodore's, 2nd floor. 11 a.m. Porn Pon squad performance, JACC Fieldhouse. 
11 :30 a.m. Glee club concern, JACC North Dome. 12 p.m. Shenanigans performance, JACC North Dome. 12 p.m. Band concert, Main Building steps. 
12:45 p.m. Band steps-off, Main Building Steps. 
1:35 p.m. Kickoff, Notre Dame vs. Tennessee, Notre Dame Stadium. 5 p.m. Vigil Mass, Sacred Heart Church. 6:45p.m. Rosary Devotions, The Grotto, behind Sacred Heart Church. 
Sunday 6, 7, 8, 9:30 and 11 a.m. Mass, Crypt. 8, 10, 11:45 a.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Church. 2 p.m. The Mozart String Quintets, Washington Hall. 6:45p.m. Rosary Devotions, The Grotto. 7:15p.m. Sunday Vespers, Sacred Heart Church. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 
effective means of bringing student input to du Lac. O'Hara will be present at the meeting. 
Since a limited number of students have read du Lac, CLC will seek a way to address the informed students. Blanco said the actual method of incorpo­rating student input is being discussed on broad terms at the present. 


The Observer/Peter-Jay Pultorak 
Behind the scenes 
Student managers are responsible for painting the football team's helmets prior to each game. Here (clockwise from bottom) sophomores Erika Lindhjem, Cara Patton, Lori Wingerter, Gina Sm~h. Jonathan Ablian, Dave Carey, Christine Rudolph, R.J. Nicolosi and Rich Wood take time out to pose for a picture. 




SMC debates new parietals 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Ecitor 
The Residence Hall Association (RHA) is in the process of writing a proposal to submit to the senior officers of the college to change the parietal system hours at Saint Mary's. 
A proposal has yet to be submitted, no votes have been taken, and no changes have occurred to alter the existing parietal system. 
"When things are changed, everyone will 
• AHA meeting/ page 3 
delmitely kriow," sa1d Karen Fordham, chair of the parietal committee of RHA. 
The proposal will suggest the change to extend visitation hours from 10 a.m. until 3 a.m. seven nights a week, suggestions for dealing with the changes in each dorm, and a proposed amendment to allow males in the tunnel system if they are escorted. 
"Whether they agree to this is up to the senior advisors," said Ellen McQuillan, President of RHA. 
"The changes have not been proposed officially to anyone yet," said McQuillan. 
When the proposal is completed, it will be submitted to the senior officers of the college: William Hickey, President; Dorothy Feigl, Vice-
see PARIETALS I page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
SMC coverage is a change for the better 
Last weekend marked the 25th Anniversary of The Observer's first publication. It was a time of reflection. A time to look at how The Observer had changed over the 
years. 
M h 
Some things have Alissa urp Y 
changed for the better, Ad Design 
some things, it was -~M;.;.;a;;;.;n..;.;:a;;;.agil,.;e;....r__ 
argued, for the worse. 
Whatever the case, this weekend encouraged 
my own reflection over the four years I have 
served at The Observer. 
I have nlled various positions ranging from 
Day Editor to Saint Mary's Assis~nt Editor to 
my current position as Ad Design Manager. 
With each position, I have learned to 
overcome different obstacles. 
As Day Editor, I was forced to ta~kle the 
uever-tmding headache of transferrmg the 
classifieds from the Saint Mary's office to the 
one at Notre Dame Believe me, this is not.as 
easy as it may sound. 
Somehow, and I still believe this theory to 
be true, the traffic light at the intersection of 
31 and Saint Mary's Road causes the 
interference. (By the way, any one that is still 
uninformed, Saint Mary's does have an 
Observer office! It's on the third floor of 
Haggar.) 
As a sophomore, I served as Saint Mary's 
Assistant Editor. At the beginning of the year, 
I was greatly enthused by the number of 
people who signed up at Activities Night. 
Unfortunately, I learned that most of these 
people conveniently had a test when I asked 
them to write a story. 
A word to the wise, don't sign up for 
something if you're not going to follow 
through with it. Sure, it's nice to have it on 
your resume but it's not at all appreciated by 
your employers. 
Finally, my current position as Ad Design 
Manager. I'll admit it, I was Mac-illiterate 
when I first started this job. Although I still 
have a lot to learn, I've managed with 
tremendous help from my staff. 
Anyone that is in the position of an editor or 
manager realizes the importance of a reliable 
staff. My hat is off to you ad designers! 
Reflecting upon these past four years, the 
change that I found most positive for The 
Observer, and sure I'm a little biased, is the 
increase ofSaint Mary;s publicity. 
I can recall at the General Board meeting 
last spring, both the Editor-In-Chief and Saint 
Mary's Editor agreed that increasing Saint 
Mary's publicity was of m~jor concern. I am 
glad to see that these words have been put 
into action. 
Emily and her staff have done a wonderful 
job increasing Saint Mary's publicity. Over 
the years, I have heard several complaints 
that Saint Mary's does not receive the 
publicity it should. As I mentioned before, it 
is impossible for a few people to do the job of 
an entire staff. I encourage more Saint 
Mary's students to get involved with the 
newspaper, with the hope someday The 
Observer will reach its goal to be the 
independent newspaper serving both Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
Production: Sports: Peggy Crooks Rene Ferran Bryan Nowicki 
Scoreboard:Jeanne Blasi 
Jen Marten News: 
Accent:Paul Pearson Cris Ortiz Steve Zavestowski 
Shonda Wilson Graphics: VIewpoint: Brendan Regan Caroline Giannuzzi 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observef is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday, November 8, 1991 



sunny and with a chance of lurries today. Highs the lower 30s. ny and warmer urday. 
H L 66 54 63 36 46 34 51 38 27 13 50 37 46 27 31 21 86 72 
68 56 
:;o 25 57 50 79 61 
81 70 68 39 54 39 54 43 53 33 64 45 25 20 
82 58 
61 45 2e 20 66 48 

Pressure 56 33 
H L till~ m 0 wg] 

SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDYSHOWERS RAIN T..STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE
HIGH LOW 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Rushdie calls off frotest 
• LONDON -Aut or Salman Rushdie has grudgingly canceled a demonstration in his support because he says the government warned the protest could jeopardize the release of a British hostage in Lebanon. Rushdie has been in hiding since Feb. 14, 1989, when Iran's late revolutionary patriarch, Ayatollah 

Ruhollah Khomeini, called on Muslims to kill Rushdie, considering his novel "The Satanic Verses" to blaspheme Islam. Supporters had planned to recognize Rushdie Monday, the 1,000th day since the death order, with a 24-hour vigil. 
NATIONAL 
Black bo¥'s school plan dropped 
OF INTEREST 


male elementary schools in September. About 90 percent of Detroit's 160,000 public school students are black. 
Lawn chair oilot recognized 
• LOS ANGELES -Ten years after Larry Walters drifted over the Pacific Coast in an airborne lawn chair, he's landed in an advertising campaign with Timex Corp. He was chosen because he fit the company's campaign touting ordinary individuals who conquer enormous obstacles. Walters strapped 42 weather balloons to a lawn chair and floated three miles above city streets. The July 2, 1982, voyage took him 15 miles from San Pedro to Long Beach. Wearing a parachute, he landed his craft by deflating seven balloons with a pellet gun. 
INDIANA 

Water in Dome not allowed 
• INDIANAPOLIS -Charges were dropped against a woman who tried to carry a cup of water into the Hoosier Dome. Only food or beverages provided by ve~dors a_re allowed in the stadium. Prosecutor Jeffrey Modisett said, "I believe that the tax dollars of Marion County are better spent on other. cases. Barbara Myers-I_<.e~ns, 29, was charged with disorderly conduct and resistmg arrest on Sept. 15 after a dispute with a security guard who stopped her from entering the stadium for the World Gymnastics Championships. 
•The 
registration deadline for the Urban Plunge is today. Registrations must be turned in today by 5 p.m. Applications are still available at the Center for Social Concerns, both Campus Ministry offices (Badin and Hes­burgh Library) and at Saint Mary's: Campus Ministry In Regina Hall, Justice Education Office in Madeleva Hall and the new student volunteer office, SURV, in Haggar. 

•shenanigan's 
Anniversary Concert will be pre­sented today at 9 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk or at the door. Shenanigans, Notre Dame's singing and dancing ensemble, is celebrating 10 years at Notre Dame. 

•come 
dance to your favorite Cumbia, Marengue, Salsa, Hip-Hop, and Alternative music at the LULAC mixer Saturday from 9:30 p.m. -1:30 a.m. at Theodore's. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ November 7 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 249,740,630 217.14 1r 1.8 COMPOSITE 393.72 .. 1.8 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,054.11 .. 15.6 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD~ $2.70 to $355.40oz. 
2¢ to $4.063/oz.


•A Spanish Mass will be held in Breen-Phillips Chapel on Sunday at 10:30 a.m. 
liThe "Amelia Earhan ... One Woman Show" scheduled for 8:30p.m. on Sunday has been cancelled. 
•Mock 
Trial jurors are needed for the Notre Dame Law School Mock Trials November 23, 24 and December 7, 8 (8:30-noon, 1-2 p.m.). Anyone interested should con­tact Brian Alexander at 277-9497 by November 13. 

•A 
food drive will be conducted by the Navy ROTC midshipmen at LaFortune, the Oak Room, and the Book­store this weekend. They will be collecting canned food items and cash/check donations, all of which will be do­nated to the Hope Rescue Mission for the holidays. 


•on-campus housing is available for graduate stu­dents in the New Fischer Graduate Residences for the spring semester. Apply now at 311 Main Building. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On November 8: 
• 
In 1793: The world-famous Louvre Museum in Paris opened its doors to the public. 

• 
In 1923: Adolf Hitler launched his first attempt at seizing power in Germany with a failed coup in Munich that came to be known as the Beer-Hall Putsch. 

• 
In 1933: President Roosevelt created, by executive order, the Civil Works Administration, designed to create jobs for more than 4 million unemployed. 

• 
In 1950: During the Korean War, the first jet-plane battle took place as U.S. Air Force Lt. Russell J. Brown shot down a North Korean MiG-15. 


·-. -~ 

Friday, November 8,1991 The Observer page3 
Gray talks on dioxin dangers 
By AMY MARK News Writer 
The debate over the uncer­
tainty of the dangers of 2-, 3-, 
7-, and 8-tetrachloridebenzo­
dioxin (TCDD) is a highly emo­
tional and scientifically contro­
versial issue, according to 
Kimberly Gray. 
Gray, whose lecture was titled 
"Science and Emotion: The 
Dioxin Debate," is a professor 
and currently a researcher with 
a grant from Occidental Chemi­
cal to study the effects of the 
Love Canal disaster. 
She has studied extensively the TCDD, once called "The most toxic synthetic chemical known to humans." 
The dioxin chemical is a by­product of chloro-organic manufacturing. This contami­nant is not difficult to destroy and degrades slowly. Sources of this controversial chemical include pesticides, leaded gaso­line, municipal and hazardous waste incinerators, and the pulp and paper industry. 
"What do you think of when you hear the word 'dioxin'?" Gray asked. She discussed the emotional issues that have oc­curred from chemical disasters such as Agent Orange, Times Beach, MO, and specifically, the Love Canal. The problems that arose from this catastrophe re­sulted from a poor attempt to cover up the fact that a neigh­borhood had unknowingly been built upon a toxic chemical dump site, she said. 
Although dioxin did not play a part in the early concern for the Love Canal, Gray said, it is associated with its memories, and the uncertainty of its effects provoke a highly emotional reaction from those who are aware of it and the conflicting research reports on it. 
Gray discussed three toxico­logical studies that were made on dioxins. One study by the government showed that "Vietnam vets were not exposed to high levels of TCDD," during the war, she said. 
Marilyn Fingerhut, with the National Institute for Occupa­tional Safety and Health, de­termined from her research that "'long time exposure and high serum levels of TCDD cause cancer,'" Gray said. 
In a German study last week 
at the Hamburg Department of 
Health, scientists determined 
that "'at fairly high exposures, 
TCDD is a human carcinogen,'" 
Gray said. 
The New York Times reported 
in August 1991 that dioxins 
were not distinctively 
dangerous, only compounding 
the confusion of the contradict­
ing studies, Gray said. 
But Gray, from her own re­search, believes that a number of dioxin-like compounds have toxic effects, some of which concern several genes. Dioxin seems to cause cancers, but Gray concluded "when it comes to measuring effects of TCDD, cancer may be a poor indica­tor." 
In conclusion, Gray remarked on the uncertainty of the impli­cations of dioxin and its impact on the world. She stressed a need for an overall coming to­gether of policy and science to prevent problems such as those at Love Canal. "Scientists need to understand the political di­mensions ... to their activities. Policy needs science and science needs policy," she said. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Kroc Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies. 


RHA meeting focuses on fund raising 
By MICHELLE CLEMENTE 
News Writer 
Parietals and fundraising 
were discussed at The Saint 
Mary's Residence Hall Associa­
tion (RHA) meeting Thursday. 
RHA is working on a new parietals proposal to be sub­mitted to President William Hickey and other administra­tors. The proposal will include changing parietal hours to 10 
a.m. until 3 a.m. everyday and having escorted men use the tunnels which run underneath the buildings. 
Currently, parietals at Saint Mary's run from 4 p.m. until midnight Mondays through Thursdays, 4 p.m. until 2 a.m. Fridays, noon until 2 a.m. Sat­urdays and noon to midnight on Sundays. 
The biggest problem is secur­ing the two doors of Le Mans Hall, RHA President Ellen Mc­Quillan said. All other dorms have only one door to secure. 
RHA asks that each student donate $2 so that a desk atten­dant can work on the east side of Le Mans. McQuillan said, "The Proposal will hopefully be submitted within two weeks." 
The RHA fundraising commit­tee will be selling t-shirts with .. The Top 10 Reasons to Go to Saint Mary's". Students may submit their ideas and their name in a suggestion box at the front desk of each hall. The students whose ideas are cho­sen will win a free t-shirt. The price of the t-shirt has not yet been decided. Anyone with questions should contact Jill Burdo. 
Several RHA members at­tended a RHA conference at the University of Wisconsin at Osh 





SPANISH MASS 

All Are Welcome 

Sunday,NovernberiO 
10:30 A.M. 
Breen -Phillips Chapel 
Kosh over fall break. The con­
ference and RHA brought na­
tional and regional recognition 
to Saint Mary's, McQuillan said. 
Delia Alvarado, the National 
Communications Coordinator, 
attended meetings, voted on by­
laws of RHA and helped select 
the regional representatives for 
Indiana. 
Other members attended pro­grams in communications, leadership, development rela­tionships and icebreakers. Other schools from Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin and Ontario were represented. 
The next RHA meeting will be November 14 at 6:30 in the Chameleon Room. At 7 p.m. members will participate in "Take Back the Night", a walk from the Le Mans Shuttle Stop to the Grotto and then to O'Shaughnessy Hall. Questions should be directed to Karen Jurgenson. 
Please support. 
+American RedC"""' 

ND graduate students get fellowships from Amoco 
Special to The Observer 
Two Notre Dame graduate students will receive doctoral fellowship grants from Amoco Foundation Inc. in a ceremony on campus Saturday. 
W. Douglas Ford, executive vice president of Amoco Oil Co. and a 1966 graduate of Notre Dame, will recognize Jeffrey Fodor and David Alonso at noon in Room A-50 of Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. 
Fodor, from Pueblo, Colorado, is working toward a doctorate in chemical engineering at Notre Dame. He also received a fellowship grant from Amoco last year. Alonso, from Aurora, Illinois, is pursuing his doctorate in chemistry. 
"Amoco is pleased to award these grants in recognition of the major role Notre Dame plays in meeting critical needs for highly qualified technical and business professionals in the work force," Ford said. "Amoco, as well as the nation as a whole, continues to benefit 
'l:()TT,[Y.I[~ 
Scottsdale Mall • 291-4583 


James Belushi DECEIVED 
~~Y~u! ~!~ ~.!~~ ~ 
Sat, Sun 1:15 3:15 5:15 7:15 9:15 Sat, Sun 2:00 5:00 7:00 9:00 

from the contributions of the University and its graduates." 
About 80 Notre Dame gradu­ates are currently employed by Amoco, said Ford, who earned his bachelor's degree in chemi­cal engineering from Notre Dame. 
The Amoco Foundation has presented more than $100,000 to Notre Dame this year in support of engineering, the physical sciences, business, and minority education programs. 
In the past decade the foun­dation's contributions to Notre Dame total almost $800,000 ­and more than $3.3 million to all Indiana colleges and univer­sities. 
The 39-ye ar-old Amoco Foundation is funded by Amoco Corp. and has donated more than $26 7 million to non-profit educational, service, and cul­tural organizations. In 1990 the foundation contributed $24.5 million to such groups, with about half the total going to support education. 

NOTRE DAME'S 

sponsored by CAMPUS MINISTRY  DUSTIN HOFFMAN  CLOSEST NEIGHBOR 2/10 OF A MILE  
MINORITY STUDENT AFFAIRS  BILLY ooBATHGATE  FROM CAMPUS FURNISHED STUDIOS 1 &2 BEDROOM APTS  
Daily 4:30 7:00 9:15 Sat , Sun 1:45 4:30 7:00 9:15  ACCEPTING APPLICATIO 272-8124  
·--.­----·---------------------­------­-·----______.J  I I "-------------·--····------,_,• I  · .I ~ --­I ...~-4. ....:---------­ I.--­--~-­.... ----...  --..  --.... -­.. -...... -..... --..  --....... '  


I The Observer page4 Friday, November 8,1991 
results were "'representative" of days a week. contains both student housing of the R.A.'s. It depends on the 
what the students living on ..(We) felt they were asking a and administrative offices, more students, how mature they are,


Parietals 

campus want. lot," stated McQuillan. The de­than one door must remain and how well they handle it," "People all over campus will cision was made by the commit­unlocked in the build~g. said Brehl. "We will have to be 
continued from page 1 

complain at nrst (if the changes tee to propose the change for 3 more aware though, especially occur). It's a natural human am, the second most popular RHA will propose the addition in LeMans." 
President and Dean of Faculty; 

tendency," McQuillan stated. time among the surveyed stu­of another desk worker for the
Mary Ellen Smith, Dean of. 

"Later they will see the dents. door near Haggar. The salary Also, McQuillan dismissedStudent Affairs; Dan Osberger, 
benefits." "This would extend the hours for another desk worker has rumors that the system was
Vice-President for Fiscal 

The survey polled students on by about nine hours a day," said not been allotted for in this starting on a trial basis. "It (the 
i \ 
;-Affairs; Kaye Ferguson-Patton, 
changes that could occur McQuillan. "Hopefully it will be year's budget, so RHA will sug­new system) is not starting on a
Vice-President for College 

now-such as the hours enough to satisfy students, if gest that each on-campus stu­trial basis," said McQuillan. "IfRelations, and Mary Kelleher, parietals would be in effect, and not, they can submit a new dent donate as little as two the senior officers decide on aDirector of Residence Life.
} "I have no idea how the se­whether they should be the proposal later in the year." dollars for an account to be set­trial basis, then that is what we same time every night of the McCandless, Regina, and Holy up to pay the worker for the will do, but it has not even been
nior officers will react," said 

week-as well as changes that Cross Halls would lock all doors year. proposed yet." 
McQuillan. Depending on their 

could be presented to the Board except for the main door. "Hopefully this can be allotted "We want to provide the bestreactions and helpfulness, the of Regents in the In Regina all males taking for in next year's budget," possible living environment for
changes could occur "this 

future-including the idea of classes would be required to stated McQuillan. the women Jiving on campus,"
month, next semester, next 

24-hour visitation, and the leave J.D.'s at the front desk, Parietal Committee members Kelleher said. "We don't wantyear, or never," said McQuillan. 
elimination of leaving an I.D. at and exit the building immedi­have also been contacting the to lessen security, but RHA has"If this is something the stu­the front desk and allowing ately following classes. offices that use other doors in done a great job answering alldents want, I am very support­
guests to be unescorted. In Holy Cross, students would LeMans to see if alternative the questions of logistics involv­ive of helping things happen," The latter ideas would take not be permitted to enter doors could be used, or other ing security." 
said Kelleher. 

much longer to implement be­through the Post Office door. safety methods taken. Anyone who wants to help theBecause admission is down, cause they would need the sup­Augusta Hall would remain "Either all halls change, or process is invited to attend RHA
and more people are moving 

port of the parents concerning on the honor system, but would none change," said McQuillan. meetings held each Thursday atoff-campus, McQuillan feels that safety issues, said McQuillan. extend visitation hours to the Vanessa Brehl, a resident ad­7 p.m. on the third floor ofthe senior officers should listen 
The majority of students re­new ones. visor in LeMans Hall does not Haggar. "RHA is for theto what the students want, and 
sponding to the survey pro­believe the changes will affect students," said McQuillan, "we
change the existing parietal 

system, before they push more posed that visitation hours be LeMans Hall posed the most the way we (the R.A.'s) do welcome any suggestions." from 10 a.m. to 5 a.m. seven problems. Because LeMans things. "It won't change the job 
people away. "The students are the ones 
piled a survey for students to 
answer on October 10 and 11 in 
• 
the dining hall at lunch and 
dinner. 
ApproximateJv 750 studP.nts voted, which is about half of the students that live on campus. 
Fordham and McQuillan both found the response to be good, considering signs announcing the survey were not posted until the morning of the voting. They both stated that they felt the 




Amnesty LOOKIN' FOR SOME 
International to gather ACTION? 
Special to The Observer 
Over 400 human rights ac­tivists from high schools and colleges in 13 Midwestern states will gather at North­western University on Saturday, 


FIGHTING IRISH HOCKEY 
November 16, to attend a "Student Activism Day" confer­ence organized by Amnesty In­ternational. 
vs
Wilmer Fernandez, an eco­nomics student from Honduras who attends the University of Wisconsin at Eau Claire, will be 


#10 NEW HAMPSHIRE 
the keynote speaker. 
Students will attend work­shops on topics ranging from conscientious objection to the death penalty and juveniles. Ruth Barrett, Midwest regional Friday, November 8 7:30pmdirector, and Marjory Byler, deputy director for Amnesty In­
Saturday, November 9 7:30pm
ternational U.S.A., will speak. The organization works for 


JACC Hockey Arena 
fair and prompt trials for all political prisoners, and for an end to torture and executions. Amnesty International school 

groups participate in letter­Blue and Gold Student Cards are still available writing actions, special events and public education about for only $10 at the ticket office or at the gate on game day. 
human rights. The conference will begin at The Blue and Gold Card is your season
9:30 a.m. in the Medill Audito­rium, 1845 Sheridan Road, 


ticket to ND Hockey!
Evanston, Illinois, and will close at 7:30p.m. 
For more information, con­tact Judy Hatcher or Pat Burke of Amnesty International at (312) 427-2060. 

Friday, November 8,1991 The Observer pageS 
Scrolls: Concept of 'Messiah' might not be unique 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Newly released text from the Dead Sea Scrolls mentions the execution of a Messiah-like leader, suggesting that some ancient Jews shared the Christian con­cept of the slaying of a Messiah, scholars said Thursday. 
One fragment contains five lines of text that describes a "leader of the community" be­ing "put to death" and mentions "piercings" or "wounds," said Robert Eisenman, a professor of Middle East religions at California State University, Long Beach. 
The text also uses Messiah­related terms such as "the staff," "the Branch of David" and the "Root of Jesse," said Eisenman, who helped translate the scroll fragments. 
Its language is close to that in the Old Testament Book of Isaiah, which says "for our sins he was wounded." Many Chris­tians use Isaiah's prophecies to aid their understanding of Je­sus. 
Eisenman said he doesn't know if the leader mentioned in the text was Jesus. But he said the text has "far-reaching sig­nificance" because it shows the scrolls' writers and early Chris­tians shared similar Messianic ideas. 
He said the text supports his controversial theory that the most recent scrolls were written by Jews who helped form early Christianity. Many other scholars believe the scrolls were written by an ascetic Jew­ish sect called Essenes. 
"We've known for a long time there are connections between ideas contained in the scrolls and Christianity. However, this particular idea -the idea of a dying Messiah -is new and explosive," said Michael Wise, a 
• Grc~-r ~Wk::.tte:-~, ~v~ AND ~A;L~DS
---. rt, "t::S~e,$$0~D ~~N~
__.... 
._ ~N~f+-BAKEJ<Y ~ PyNAMr"'E.-DE~SER-r.S --------------------~0~~·.~-----~---------·-·
... 




MARIGOLD MARKET 
6~&CLEVE:::LANDI<P.·27Z·J92.Z 
·" 
University of Chicago professor of Aramaic, the language of Je­sus. 
Wise, who helped translate the fragments, said it was al­ways thought that Jews at the time of Jesus expected a Mes­siah who would restore Israel to dominance politically. Yet the newly released text shows that the Jewish scroll writers had the idea of a Messiah who would suffer and die. 
"That shows this was not an idea unique to Christianity," Wise said. 
"Anything which potentially impugns the uniqueness of the Christian message can be seen by some people as invalidating it or weakening it," said Wise. 
The scrolls contain the oldest known copies of the Old Testa­ment and numerous other writ­ings. Scholars believe they were written by a Jewish sect some-
A sophomore supper 

time between 200 B.C. and A.D. 50. 
The 800 scrolls, most in fragments, were found in caves near the Dead Sea in the late 1940s and early 1950s. Stored in Jerusalem, the scrolls con­tain priceless information about the period that spawned Christianity and modern Ju­daism. 
A group of scholars, working under Jordanian and later Is­raeli auspices, controlled access to many of the scrolls for 40 years, drawing criticism that they were sluggish in publishing translations. 
The Huntington Library in San Marino broke the monopoly in September by giving qualified scholars free access to its 3,000 photographs of scroll fragments. Eisenman was the first granted access. 
"It's an interesting text. I 
URBAN p

r-----~R~-~~~~~-~s-=~~R-~R~~~-1~-0~-N~-----~~~ 
z 
G) 
m 
doubt if one would call it explo­sive or revolutionary," said Eu­gene Ulrich, a University of Notre Dame theology professor. As chief editor of the scrolls, Ulrich was among the scholars who had early access to the documents. 
Many concepts once believed to be uniquely Christian later were found to have been men­tioned by Jews who wrote the scrolls, Ulrich said. 
Emile Puech, another of the scrolls' editors, revealed the same text in Madrid last March during a closed-door meeting of official scroll scholars, Ulrich said, adding it will be published soon. If the translation of the frag­ments is correct, the text "is very significant," said James Tabor, a University of North Carolina associate professor of Christian origins and ancient Judaism. 
The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 


Bob Castelli and Jenn~er Halbach participate in the sophomore class dinner at Barnaby's Thursday. 
NASA sets launch date of Nov. 19 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) 
-NASA has set Nov. 19 as the 
launch date for the sixth and 
final space shuttle flight of 
1991, a military mission by At­
lantis. 
Mission managers announced 
the date after meeting Thurs­
day at Kennedy Space Center. 
Atlantis is scheduled to lift off at 6:51 p.m. EST with six astronauts and a Defense De­partment satellite to be dis­patched thousands of miles above Earth. The satellite is de­signed to warn of nuclear deto­nations and enemy missile launches. 
After the satellite is released six hours into the flight, the as­tronauts will devote their time to military observations, radia­tion monitoring and medical experiments. The 10-day mis­sion is supposed to end, if all goes well, on Nov. 29 at Kennedy. 


t 
t If page 6 The Observer Friday, November 8,1991 
~ 
ROME (AP) -President Bush t 
\ I won assurances Thursday from NATO leaders that they still want America's help in defend­ing Europe. In a landmark summit, NATO agreed to invite old Warsaw Pact adversaries to join them in "a new era of partnership." In a long day of re-evaluation, NATO also adopted a slimmer military structure in a bow to the end of the Cold War and prepared to call on the Soviets to put their armaments under the control of a single central authority. 

"We must clasp the outreached hand of the people whose freedom has at last been won by a combination of their courage and our resolve," said Bush. 
"We have lost our former en­emies," NATO Secretary-Gen­eral Manfred Woerner said in opening the meeting. "We all rejoice in that." 

+++++++•+++++++++++++•+++ 

But it was Bush's challenge to NATO that dominated the opening sessions of the two-day summit. Bush pledged the United States would never abandon NATO but bluntly told his West European allies they must say whether they need or want America in their drive to­ward closer European union. 
"If, my friends, your ultimate 
aim is to provide independently 
for your own defense, the time 
The Observer/Elisa Klosterman to tell us is today," Bush told The not-so-great ones the allied leaders. 
Bush's challenge produced a 
These youths are not Wayne Gretzkys, but they put in their share of practice Thursday at the ACC. flurry of pro-American senti­ment as the alliance undertook 
\ I 
'I NATO invites Warsaw ll Pact to join their club 

its largest transformation since 
it was formed in 1949 to 
counter Soviet expansionism. 
A document on future military 
strategy issued by the summit 
leaders stressed the importance 
of the link between the United 
States and Canada and Europe. 
It said the presence of U.S. 
conventional and nuclear arms 
in Europe remained vital. 
Secretary of State James Baker, asked later about Bush's comments, said suggestions that there was a move to eliminate the U.S. role in NATO were "a total red herring." But he said that as the goals of the alliance were redefined, "we want to make certain that there are no ambiguities and that there is no confusion." 
Britain, doggedly pro-Ameri­can, and Italy declared that a NATO political declaration to be issued Friday spells out what Italian Foreign Minister Gianni De Michelis called an "undoubtful answer." 
"Europe does want to main­tain the trans-Atlantic partner­ship, including the military aspect, including the central role of the alliance," said De Michelis. 
But France, always edgy about U.S. domination in Eu­rope and the prime advocate of the West Europeans assuming their own defense role, reacted coolly to Bush's statement. 
"We wish the American pres­ence to remain in Europe," French President Francois Mit­terrand's spokesman Jean Musitelli told reporters. 

+ THE HAMMES + 
+ MOTRE DAME ~TORE "STICK WITH THE ONE YOU KNOW" ..
+ ·on tht Cimpus" + 
•• nDru MQ!.!D}V-~.lTUftOAV a.5 ._ ~ ••
ur-~;.~~ •-AI ~ "I ~ f7' SPEClAL GAME DAY t-iOlJHS SATURDAY 8 A.M.-6 P.M. ~ 
,,
,,, 
+ •

+ ~ +
+ I 0·~~~~~.. ~ ; + 
~ 't'""~ 
......,.... Transparent Tape 

+ • 

I
++ ) + ~ 
+ 
SCOTCH SCOTCH POST-IT • 

+ 
MAILING TAPE TRANSPARENT MEMO • 


+ TAN TAPE CUBES + 
! 1.99 3/1.00 2.79 : 
++++++++++++++++++•++++++ 
The Observer 

Friday, November 8,1991 page 7 

The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
No parking sticker? 
This visitor to campus is stopped by security guard Robert Stokes. Those without a decal often find access to campus a nuisance. 
Happy 21st Birthday Tamara Lower 
~tJ.Ue, 
Mom, Dad Johnny, an 
Just 5l Littfe . . . 
* 'Elfin Magic ! 
Christmas Open House 
Arts & Crafts Show ~ Nove1nber 8th & 9th 
* 
Christmas Shopping

* 
Decorations

* 
Gifts, and More!!! 


Theodore's in LaFortune, to tbe right of the dome Fri. 9 am -5 ·pm 
Sat. 9 am -noon 

Smith calls prosecutor 'incompetent'; judge in case restricts access to jury 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) -William Kennedy Smith on Thursday described the prosecutor in his rape case as incompetent, a term she had used to describe a prospective juror. 
During the heated sixth day of jury selection, Circuit Judge Mary Lupo took steps to shield prospective jurors' identities after a tabloid television show purportedly offered an outspo­ken juror "a gift." 
However, the judge again upheld live television coverage of the proceedings. 
Smith, a 31-year-old medical school graduate, told reporters he objected to prosecutor Moira Lasch's criticism of the 78-year­old juror, whose television appearance led to the new arguments about banning cam­eras in the courtroom. 
Lasch had described Florence Orbach, whose colorful and salty answers to questions about the Kennedys on Tuesday rocked the courtroom with laughter, as "borderline in­competent" and asked that Lupo dismiss her from the jury pool, which the judge did Wednesday. 

Smith, nephew of Sen. Ed­ward Kennedy, D-Mass., said he had worked with older people in hospitals and found "anybody of any age can be incompetent." 
"The way I feel today ... I'd say Moira is walking proof of it," Smith told reporters outside court. 
When he left the courthouse at day's end, Smith tried to walk quickly past reporters and joked that his lunchtime com­ment about Lasch had been off the record. 
"My mother told me not to say anything bad about anybody, so if she finds out I said that I'll get in trouble," he said. 
Earlier, Lasch complained to Lupo that while defense attor­ney Roy Black claims that pub­licity is threatening Smith's right to a fair trial, "he's doing everything he can to pander to it." 
"Mr. Black and his entourage have press conferences at noon and at night," Lasch said. 
Orbach also had a few things to say Thursday, appearing on a talk show on WJNO radio in West Palm Beach. 
"The Kennedys couldn't care less about us nobodies," she said. "It's the Kennedy magic. It pollutes the world. It polluted and hurt me." 
Lupo revealed that Orbach had called her Wednesday to complain that she had been be­sieged by calls from reporters around the country and offered "a gift" by the tabloid television show "Hard Copy." 
Kim Wilder, a spokeswoman for Hard Copy, had no immedi­ate response. 
The judge said most reporters covering the trial have been cooperative. However, she said, "The problem here is not the honesty of the jurors, it's the unscrupulous conduct of certain members of the media." 
The judge refused defense at­torney Roy Black's request to start jury selection without cameras. 

First canine bloodmobile hits the streets 
PHILADELPHIA (AP)-One of the first donors at a new bloodmobile Thur6day was furry, four-legged and equipped with a tail, and answered to the name Barry. The bloodmobile is the nation's first to collect blood 

Moa·Thurs. ll:JO am-8:JOpm Frld~yll::JO.IO:OO pm Saturday ':30-IO:OOpm Sund~y Clo..d 
2446 Miracle Lane TOwtt & Country Shopping Center 258.4911 • Eat In Or Can-y Out 
• ..... 
•-~~• ;
'_J, 
for injured canines. 

The University of Pennsylva­nia's veterinary hospital will send its fully equipped blood­mobile, like those sponsored by the American Red Cross, to animal clinics or kennels for donations, coordinator Donna Oakley said at the vehicle's un­veiling. 
"The idea of people and their pets helping other people and their pets is what makes Penn's blood donor program so spe­cial," Oakley said. "The blood­mobile will make it easier for animals to participate and will increase the supply of blood that is so critical to saving an­imals' lives." 
Clarification 

A story in yesterday's Ob­server neglected to state that John Weithers spoke at the fall meeting of the Saint Mary's College Business Associates. In addition he addressed members of Saint 
Mary's business clubs. The Observer regrets the error. 
Barry, a 3-year-old Belgian Malanois, has been a regular blood donor at the hospital, ac­cording to his owner-handler, Dan Buckley of the suburban Abington Police Department. 
"The transfusion program 
works," he said. 
Abington police have been 
sending their dogs to give blood 
for several years, ever since 
Buckley's first canine partner 
was saved with six transfusions. 
Donated blood will be used only for pets requiring transfu­sions and will not be used for experiments at the veterinary school, said spokeswoman Phyl­lis Holtzman. 
"What a great idea. Save the lives of other dogs," said Wayne Cavanaugh, a spokesman for the American Kennel Club. "The alternative, unfortunately, is to buy a large dog and then kill it for its blood. This program can avoid that." 
Penn began its donor pro­gram in 1987 for canine pa­tients at the hospital, which performs about five transfu­sions a day. Of the nearly 600 canine patients at Penn that needed blood last year, about two-thirds were saved. 

God gives each 
person one lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
• 
----------------~---------------­
page 8 


and title fr~: ;:; vehicle while it was parked at Badin Hall.
SECURITY BEAT 
SUNDAY, NOV. 3 
6:23 1.m. A Zahm Hall resident reported the theft of a grill from the driveway behind Zahm Hall. 

10!12 a.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported the theft of two hubcaps from his car while it was parked in the 0-6 parking lot over the weekend. 
2:34 p.m. A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported he lost his wallet somewhere between lewis Han and his dorm. 
5:58 p.m. Notre Dame Security trans­ported a Pasquerilla East resident from the Loftus Sports Centet to the St. Joseph Emergency Room for treatment ol a possible broken finger. 
7:21 p.m. Notre Dame Security assisted an injured W.alsh.·~--1rest·d···e.rtt at the 
Loftus Sports Cente . he student was transported by ambu nee to the St. Joseph Emergency Aoom for treatment of a knee injury. 

8:29 p.m. A St. Joseph H~ll resident reported vandalism to his car·while itwas parked in the 0-2 parking lot. 
H :02 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of her hood ornament 


Mexican president proposes major
~ . 
. 
reform in collective farming system 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -Presi­dent Carlos Salinas de Gortari proposed major constitutional changes Thursday in Mexico's collective farm system, a land distribution plan that was a cornerstone of the Mexican Revolution. 
The proposal Salinas sent to Congress would end distribu­tion of land under the system and allow occupants of "ejido" collective farms to sell, rent or mortgage their land -a prac­tice banned since the land parcels were handed out after the 1910-1917 Revolution. 
Salinas' Institutional Revolu­tionary Party controls both houses of Congress. A two­thirds majority vote is needed to amend the constitution. 

Since taking office late in 1988, Salinas has dismantled many of the once-sacred social and economic pillars erected by Mexican leaders in the spirit of the revolution. He has priva­tized major state-owned busi­nesses, brushed aside tradi­tional xenophobic attitudes to encourage large-scale foreign:.j investment, and said he would restore the legal standing of the
{ 
Roman Catholic Church. 

\ Tens of thousands of Mexi­cans died in the revolution, whose cry was "Land and Lib­erty." The ejido system sprang from that sentiment. Much of the land was confis­cated from wealthy landowners, whose side lost the revolution. More recently, some ejido land has come from confiscated holdings of convicted drug traf­fickers. 
"(The distribution of lands) was a necessary action and was possible in a little-populated country with vast areas to col­onize," Salinas' proposal read. "It no longer is. The rural pop­ulation is growing but the terri­tory remains the same." 
About 250 million acres, roughly half of Mexico's sur­face, is made up of ejidos, or groups of farmers who collec­tively farm small plots. 
It is frequently arid or stoney land, and the small-plot farm­ing is generally inefficient. Mexico, which once exported sugar, beans and basic grains, now must import those items. Self-sufficiency in agriculture has been a major goal of a suc­cession of governments. 
MONDAY, NOV. 4 
9:26 1.m. Notre Dame Sea.lrity and Notre Dame Fire responded to the report of an iU student in O'Shaughnessy Hall. The student was transported by ambulance to the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
3:45 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident reported the !heft of his season basketball tickets from his unlocked dorm room. 
4:14p.m. A Farley HaH resident reported the theft of her book bag from the Bookstore. 
5:25 p.m. A visitor to the University reported she lost her purse somewhere on campus. 
TUESDAY, NOV. 5 
1:00 a.m. Notre Dame Security and Notre Dame Fire assisted an ill Flanner Hall resident. The student was taken by ambulance to the St. Joseph Emergency 
Room. 
9:50 a.m. A Sorin Hall resident reponed the theft of his launc:hy from Badin Hall. 
10:31 a.m. A University employee re· ported the !heft of her 8·1 parking decal from her vehicle while it was parked in the B-3parking lot. 
10:45 a.m. A Universiry employee re-


One high government official remarked Thursday when the announcement was made at presidential headquarters, "There will not be a difference between agriculture and indus­try." 
The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, was re­ferring to Salinas' aggressive program of privatization. The government divested itself of banks, the telephone company, mines, sugar refineries, an air­line, a hotel chain and other properties. 
This boosted foreign confi­dence in Mexico's economy, and investment from abroad is on the rise. 
Salinas hinted at changes in the ejido system in his annual state of the nation speech Nov. 
1. 
The official on Thursday noted that Mexico had changed radically from when it emerged from the revolution as an agri­cultural nation. 
Today, farmers, who comprise about 25 percent of the population of 88 million, gen­erate only 10 percent of the 
Th& Observer 
·«~the theft of his B·2parklng decal. 
2:07 p.m. Notre Dame Security re· sponded to the report of a suspicious person near Walsh Hall. No suspects were found. 
4:39 p.m. A University employee reported !he loss of her B-1 parking decaL 
5:05 p.m. A University employee reported !he theft of her B-2 parking decal, 
5:45 p.m. A St. Edward's Hall resident reported the theft of his compact disc player from his unlocked dorm room. 
5:49 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported the theft of his book bag from South Dining Hall. 
10:56 p.m. A University employee re­ported a window had been smashed out of the North door to O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
WEDNESDAY, NOV.6 
12:54 p.m. Notre Dame Securiry re­sponded to the report of two suspects distributing fliers in Flannei Hall. The two suspects were found and issued trespass warnings and sent off UniversitY property. 
1'2:s7 p.m. A University ~mployee re­ported lhe theft of his 8-1 parking decal. 4:30p.m. A Notre Dame student repc}rted vandalism to his vehicle while i~ was parked in the D-3 parking lot. 

-~~--------------------------------~~--------------------.... 
'F'rlday, November 8,1991 

House Democrats push for tax increase for rich 
national production. 
Incomes of the rural sector are on average about a third of the rest of the economy, and rural Mexicans live in poverty, the official said. 
A news release from the presidency said collective farm­ers could not be forced to sell their lands to pay debts under the Salinas proposal. "Agrarian tribunals" -fully autonomous from the government -would handle disputed cases. 
Ejido farmers could sell land to each other, to private in­vestors or to foreigners. 
Under the ejido system, the farmers could will their land to an heir but could not rent, sell or mortgage it. The thinking was that this would prevent the land from again winding up in the hands of the few. 
If a farmer wanted to give up his ejido it reverted to the state, who awarded it to another farmer on the waiting list. 
Ejido farmers work their land together, usually using equip­ment owned -in common and using their size to get better prices on seed and other needs. 


WASHINGTON (AP) -House Democratic leaders lined up Thursday behind a new initia­tive to top their 1992 election­year agenda: a tax credit of up to $200 a year per worker, paid for by upper-income Ameri­cans. 
Ninety million couples and individuals would get tax cuts in 1992 and 1993 while the richest 1 million would pay more-permanently. 
"It runs to the heart of what Democrats stand for," said Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, D-111., chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and au­thor of the proposal. 
The plan was promoted as good medicine for a sluggish economy and as a major effort to make the tax system fairer. The Democrats, who control Congress, emphasized that no action will be taken on the pro­posal until early next year, even though they promised that the tax relief would be retroactive to Jan. 1, 1992. 
While action must wait, said House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., the mere fact that the top two tax-writers in Congress -Rostenkowski and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen, D­Texas -have called for middle­income relief should be "pretty convincing in formation" to 
Americans uncertain about the economy. 
Bentsen's tax-cut proposal would benefit fewer people than Rostenkowski's, but the most striking contrast is in the financing of the reductions. While Rostenkowski would put the bite on higher-income tax­payers-singles above $85,000 and couples over $145,000 -Bentsen would take the money out of the defense budget. 
The big question, Gephardt said, is how does President Bush propose to help taxpay­ers? "He's off in Home and the people are here in the United States having trouble paying their bills," Gephardt said. 
Bush has said he is not cer­tain a tax cut would help the economy and is standing by his call for a reduction in taxes on capital gains, which are profits from the sale of investments and other property. 
Rostenkowski's bill would give every worker an income-tax reduction for 20 percent of Social Security-Medicare taxes paid, with a maximum credit of $200. The maximum would go to single people earning $13,075 or more and to two­earner couples earning $26,150 or more. The credit would be made available through reduced withholding from paychecks in 1992 and 1993. 

"PO\VERFUL. PROVOCATIVE. ·PERFECT. 
De Niro is extraordinary:• 
-Pal ( ull'"'· \\\\Oil-1"\ "\ ~.\\ 'Ollk 

WJl.. fJ! Mlb Pllllt\1\ 

•AIUOo NII.OI-'\-.. •IRtl\ li\IJ.El! '"' IIIEKT lt \ll(o GIILn S1 ~\POl\ 1\\fm lf\1\(, -llrJMGI[\IITI'!JlOOA srm;,.lolll l-1.\Ali.IIE< :'" .\1.1\( IIUM)I ~ ., 1111£.\ \El,..,..IR!Ril :..· )ffifHE11lifJI-.\IN'-~llJJtl\ • 
~~-...-=.-::~ ':'.!Ril\ll'llf.R ~.... .-.....-r~i·-····. ----~=-:..:• 
Receive free conditioning with shampoo and hair cut. 
UNIVERSITY HAIRSTYLISTS 
9 -9 Monday -Friday 9 -4 Saturday 
{219) 239-5144 



Friday, November 8,1991 The 'Observer~ page9 
Abortion rights advocates ask for a quick decision 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Abor­House vote Wednesday fell ballot box for help. in the state law. handed to the government. The 
tion rights advocates, hoping to short of the two-thirds majority ··From county sheriff to the State Attorney General Ernie loss of a fundamental right has 
ignite a major political fight in that would be needed to enact U.S. president, no elected offi­Preate said Thursday he will gone from the inconceivable to next year's elections, asked the the bill over Bush's objections. cial will escape scrutiny,.. said file a motion with the appeals the inevitable," she said. Supreme Court on Thursday to Faye Wattleton, president of court asking it to lift an injunc­The Pennsylvania law, en­
state definitively whether it has Abortion rights groups held a Planned Parenthood Federation tion that has been in place since acted two years ago, is nearlyabandoned its 1973 ruling that news conference to announce of America. 1989 and let the law to go into identical to an earlier one de­legalized abortion. that they had asked the "The political road is the only effect. Then he will formally ask clared unconstitutional in 1986 
The groups said they expect Supreme Court to review a fed­road left to travel to secure our for Supreme Court review. by a more liberal Supremethe increasingly conservative eral appeals court ruling that right to choose," said Kate Court. court to overturn its 18-year-old upheld a new Pennsylvania law Michelman, executive director He said Thursday's appeal on The new law imposes a 24­ruling in Roe vs. Wade and restricting abortions. The of the National Abortion Rights the other side "is not going to hour waiting period for women spark a heated election-year groups asked the high court to Action League. "We must elect a change our game plan." seeking abortions and requiresbattle. use the case to decide whether pro-choice president or a veto­The abortion rights groups, doctors to inform patients about 
But they said that even if their it still believes abortion is a proof, pro-choice Congress." with 90 days to seek Supreme fetal development and alterna­appeal in a Pennsylvania case fundamental right for women. Thursday's appeal may in­Court review, waited less than tives to abortion. still were pending before the "The Supreme Court's failure crease the chances the Pennsyl­three weeks to appeal. The 3rd Circuit court struck justices next November, the to reaffirm Roe has fostered a vania case will be heard by the The high court could agree to down a provision in the law that issue would be on the front steady erosion of (women's) high court in its current term, review the case but not sched­required women to notify their burner for candidates and vot­liberties," said Kathryn Kolbert and will be decided sometime ule arguments until October spouses about their intention to ers in 1992. of the American Civil Liberties before the 1992 presidential 1992, just a few weeks before have an abortion. 
Meanwhile, the Democratic­Union. "We therefore call upon election. But the timetable re­the presidential election. That State officials are expected to controlled Congress sent to the Supreme Court ... to deter­mains uncertain. would mean the case would not appeal that portion of the ap­President Bush legislation al­mine whether Roe vs. Wade re­Pennsylvania officials previ­be decided until 1993. peals court ruling. lowing abortion counseling at mains the law of the land." ously announced they will ask "President Bush, you are re­The only solidly "pro-choice" federally subsidized family "If the answer is no," she the high court to review an Oct. sponsible for the costly and di­members left on the Supreme planning clinics. said, "American women must 21 ruling by the 3rd U.S. Circuit visive battle that lies ahead," Court are Justices Harry 
The Senate vote Thursday look elsewhere for redress." Court of Appeals that upheld Michelman said. Blackmun, who wrote the was 72-25, more than enough The abortion rights advocates some, but not all, of the anti­"The right to choose is about landmark 1973 decision, and to override a veto. But the said they intend to turn to the abortion restrictions contained to be taken from women and John Paul Stevens. 
Two judges • • investigated! TELECOMMUNICATIONS ! for fighting 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -An investigation is under way into

: If you think you've come far in the past four years, : allegations that an Ohio 
Supreme Court justice angrily

: you won't believe how far you could go in the next fi':'e. : wrestled a fellow justice to the 
floor over complaints about computer file snooping, state police said Thursday.

e Ifyou've spent the past four years developing a solid technical background, we have e Associate Justices Craig Wright and Andrew Douglas
e an extraordinary opportunity for you: The Travelers Telecommunications e 
scuffled in front of fellow Jus­

e Technology Management Program (ITMP). e tice Alice Robie Res11ick until two of her clerks separated the pair, according to witnesses
• The most comprehensive training program of it's kind in the financial services • who spoke on condition of : industry, TTMP is a five-year introduction to a state-of-the-art telecommunications : anonymity. 
The witnesses said Wright,

e environment. Through a variety of rotational assignments--and supplemental e 
62, and Douglas, 59, got into a e classroom study--ITMP is singly focused on developing the managers who will keep e shouting match Tuesday after Douglas confronted Wright over
e us on the cutting edge. e 
comments he reportedly had made about Douglas' secretary, : ITMP is not easy and it's not for everyone. But, if you're looking to develop the : Sue Pohlman. e full range of skills needed to manage the most sophisticated telecommunications e 
They said Douglas denied 

e technology available, there's simply no better place to begin your career. e making the comments and Douglas called Wright a liar. At that point, they said Wright
e Find out more: • knocked Douglas against a desk and grabbed at his tie and throat before law clerks pulled them apart, the witnesses said. 
Although both men are Re­

e Come to The Travelers Information Session on e 
publicans, their personal and professional differences have

•• Monday, November 11, 1991 •• been widely known around the 
court for many months.

• 7:00p.m. : 
Wright said Wednesday that

: Centerfor Continuing Education, Room 212 • 
he and Douglas had a "little disagreement." He would not 

• Interviews will be conducted • comment further Thursday. 
Douglas said: "I have b.een informed that the State High­: Tuesday, November 12, 1991 : way Patrol is conducting an in­vestigation, on its own initia­tive, into Tuesday's incident. I
: Summer intern candidates are also encouraged to attend. : 
have not requested an investi­gation but I support the inquiry and I will fully cooperate with the patrol's efforts." 
Patrol Superintendent Col. Thomas Rice confirmed that an investigation was under way but would not comment further. The patrol has jurisdiction

: TheTravelerSJ : because the alleged incident
e You're better off under the Umbrella.® e occurred on state property.
• 
Resnick said she could not comment because of the patrol investigation. 
Neither appeared to have been injured. Douglas, who is 

: ~ 1991 The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183 An Equal Opportunity Employer. : 
• 
5-foot-9 and 9 inches shorter than Wright, said he was hav­ing a doctor examine his shoul­der and neck. 

t 
\ 
' 
·r 
' 
I . 

HEAD COACH LOU HOLTZ INVITES NOTRE DAME ALUMNI, STUDENTS, FACULTV AND STAFF TO JOIN HIM IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST ANNUAL SOUTH BEND CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS CHRISTMAS LUNCHEON
• 
WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 4 11:30 A.M. 
CENTURY CENTER, SOUTH BEND 
•

Since the founding of South Bend's Center for the Homeless in 1988, the Notre Dame community has embraced the Center as an opporturyity for students, faculty, staff and alumni to reach out in the spirit of Jesus to the less fortunate of Michiana. Lou Nanni, a Notre Dame alumnus and member of the University's Board of Trustees, is the Center's director. University administrators serve on the Center's board. Students, faculty and staff members volunteer their time to minister to the Center's residents. Notre Dame alumni have served on the Center's staff and been among its early benefactors. 
Now friends of .the Center, including Coach Lou Holtz and other members of 
the University community, are joining in the inauguration of a splendid new holiday 
tradition: the first annual Center for the Homeless Christmas Luncheon. This event 
• 

will play a pivotal role·in enabling the Center to meet the vital needs of the homeless during the coming winter. 
• 
Staffed by1 0 people assisted by some 400 volunteers each month, the Center is equipped with 135 beds in three residential areas--for men, for women and for families. During the first nine months of 1991, it has provided 17,605 nights' lodging and more than 33,000 meals. Even in this year's mild Michiana autumn, the Center has averaged 85 guests each night ... and the number will increase dramatically as the weather grows colder. 
In addition, some 100 needy people each day use Center services including mental health counseling, medical and dental care, job placement, outpatient treatment for mental illness and chemical dependency, parental counseling programs, preschool and G.E.D. classes, and legal aid. •· 
The Center depends entirely on community volunteers and generosity--on people like you--to offer the homeless these gifts of hospitality, compassion, and
·• respect. By your presence or by your support, please join the Notre Dame and Michiana communities on December 4 ... in the spirit of the Christ Child . . . in celebration of the gift of giving. 
• 
YES, I plan to join Coach Holtz December 4 in support of Michiana's homeless. 
Please reserve: 
• 
__tables of eight at $240 per table 
• 
__ individuals at $30. per reservation
• 

I'M UNABLE TO ATTEND the December 4 luncheon, but please accept my gift of 
$ to the Center for the Homeless 

(Please make checks payable to the Center for the Homeless) 
• 
813 South Michigan St., South Bend, IN 46601 

NAME__________________________________________________ 
COMPANY NAME_____________________________________ 
ADDRESS 
• CITY ST.~TE 71P 
PHONE 

• 
------• 
---Contributions to the Center for the Homeless are tax deductible--­
•• •.. 

.. 
Happy Z1st 
[;DI18rn 1ia~ 

We love you dearly! 
Dad, Mom, Carne, Michael, Beth, Kate, Frank, Stephanie, Quinn 


Interested in getting involved in Junior Parents• Weekend? We need a lot of enthusiastic individuals to join the Sophomore Committee. 
Please come to our informational meeting on Wed., Nov. 13th at 8 pm in the Sorin Room in LaFortune Can't make it? Call Bernadette at X3885 

I HAVE 2 TENN GA'S. LET'S MAKE A  Is anyone going to the Detroit Rush concert  
DEALII CALL ANN MARIE AT 4970.  Nov. 13 or 14? I need a ride. x4009  
Adoption • a warm and caring couple wants  ATIENTION JUNIORS II  
to open our hearts & home to your baby.  Please bring in your pictures (all  
Call Marty or Nancy collect  horizontal, no alcohol present) for JPW  
(317) 842·8312.  slideshow to Student Activities by Oec.2.  
Put name and address on back.  
ADOPTION  
Happy, loving couple wishes to raise your  SUBWAY  
white newborn with warmth and love. Can  20% OFF ALL PARTY SUBS  
provide financial security and education.  with college I.D., for the  
Medical/legal expenses paid. Please  NOITENN game at the  
answer our prayers by calling Maureen &  following locations:  
Jim. Call 1-800-456·2656.  23 & IRONWOOD 277·7744  
N. 31 277·1024  
FEMALE STUDENT NEEDED TO PICK·  INDIAN RIDGE 271-1772  
UP AT 3:30 AND CARE FOR 7 YR. OLD 3­ DOWN TOWN 289-12Ba  
4 HAS. THEREAFTER. STAY  
OVERNIGHT 2 TO 3 TIMES A WEEK (MY  SEXY girl needs ride to ROCH  
HOME KNOLLWOODIGRANGER AREA)  NY area for TURKEY  
AND DROP AT SCHOOL AT 8:30. START  Call KATH x2905  
NOV. 13 THRU END OF YEAR. WEEK OF  TO KELLEY &JOHN 0,  
X·MAS OFF. (NEED FREQUENTLY  
THEREAFTER). PAYS $100 WEEKLY.  Special thanks for a great weekend and  
MUST BE RESPONSIBLE AND FLEXIBLE.  don't let the "old" guys get on your case.  
REFERENCES. CALL DONNA @ 277·  
8269.  John McGrath  
John P. O'Malley 



Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
ILLIMOII • IMDIAaA 
Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD
CLUB 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545
• 
219/277-5790 A ES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 
THE IDEAL' GIIT FOR I ND FA."'IS! 1  Play like a Champion  Only $4995  
(add $8.00 for SIH)  
Today  

The famous sign in the football locker room that the players touch for good luck is now being reproduced by hand by the original artist. 
LVP 
Box 953 Notre Darm, I~ 46556 (219) 239-4457 We accept checks, M/0. Visa and MC 
WANTED:TASTY SYR DATES INTERESTED?? BRING A BANANAT0218LYONS 
Lisa-Happy 18th Birthdaylll Have a GREAT daylllllove ya roomie!! II! -Liz 
Squire Ravage has been docu-mented as procrastinating in regards to his present wagon ride. Maybe next week. 
To Chris in the CCE photography room. I think you're really cute. 
Hey Carrol Vermin: Newsflash!: 
Zahm OBis not impotent! 
(Believe me, I know.) 
Beware on Sunday, you're going down. 
love ya, Christopher! 
60Zahml 
Your #1 fan 
The METHA-TONES live I NO's NY alternative band Look N Glass in Niles Thursday-Sunday 18 & over admitted Call for directions 
MISHY-MELLY-MELL IS 21 Ill This Sat, see a normally diligent, well· adjusted young woman forget how straight her barren is, who is watching and what she is doing (indulging in wanton revelry!) What did I hear her singing? ...'Wild Women do • and they don't regret itr This time, Michele, you can leave your hat onI 
Rich, Sorry about last night. Hope we can talk later today. love, me (a sad one) 

Friday, November8,1991 
Philippine death toll from storm tops 3,300 
ORMOC, Philippines (AP) -A 
wall of water swept up Shirley 
Erlado, destroyed her home 
and killed most of her family ­
among more than 3,300 people 
who perished in the floods and 
landslides that struck two 
Philippine islands. 
She joined other dazed sur­
vivors Thursday, wandering the 
streets of this devastated port. 
Officials were still burying the 
dead from Tuesday's disaster, 
and said they were concerned 
of the threat of disease and low 
food stocks. 
"We are so busy burying the 
dead and taking care of the liv­
ing that we don't have time to 
assess the damage," said Maria 
Victoria Locsin, the mayor of 
the once-prosperous farming 
and shipping center of about 
160,000 people. 
Officials said Thursday that 3,009 died in Ormoc, on the central island of Leyte, and about 350 died elsewhere on Leyte and on the neighboring island of Negros. More than 2,000 are missing in Ormoc and presumed dead. 
Hundreds of bodies have been bulldozed into mass graves after no one claimed them. Of­ficials believe families were wiped out and there will be no one alive to claim many of the bodies. 
Yet many bloated bodies still lie unattended under the tropi­cal sun, and the air is thick with the stench of death. 
For the survivors, food and freshwater are running low. Mud is spread over stocks of rice, fish and vegetables in the city market. A thick layer of mud covers the rice, sugar and 
coconut fields outside of town. 
Authorities on Thursday ap­
pealed for food, medicine and 
clothing to help the survivors 
cope with the fourth major 
natural disaster to strike the 
country in two years. 
The disaster came as Tropical 
Storm Thelma swept over the 
region southeast of Manila, 
dumping nearly six inches of 
rain in 24 hours. 
After the day-long rains, a 
wall of water surged unexpect­
edly as streams swollen by 
mountain landslides flowed into 
high tides and strong ocean 
waves whipped up by Thelma. 
"I was on my way home when 
I was met by water neck-deep," 
said Erlado, a 34-year-old 
market vendor. "When I got 
there, we no longer had a 
house." 
Her husband, Wilfreda, had 
been preparing lunch for the 
children, and her 8-year-old 
son GiJbert was able to scram­
ble to safety on a roof. But her 
husband and three of their 
children died, and three others 
are missing. 
Rep. Carmela Locsin, the mayor's husband, blamed the degree of devastation on the fact that illegal logging had de­pleted vegetation -nature's protection against landslides ­in the nearby mountains. 
As evidence of illegal timber operations, freshly cut logs could be seen amid the debris in Ormoc. Such logging is a na­tionwide problem. 
"I have been warning against illegal logging," he said. "The people are now suffering for it." 


The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
Sticking it to them 

Bernie Weaver, assistant pro at the golf course, finds time to sell a different sort of stick at the hockey pro shoo in the ACC. Business will increase as the hockey team plays New Hampshire Friday and Saturday. 
Class 
continued from page 17 
To: K.S. from KS who resides inP.W. MSend A Message To MV Hearr From: Your Secret Admirer (Q-am I not so secret ??) 
On Saturday Nov. 10 O.B. Noxious and company bring you II Nigofest 
2.5 The Smell of Beer II Quotes from the first festival: Mllaughed, I cried, it was better than Cats"· Bill Kirk. "Prop~-M.C. Hammer ~here were chics talking to me, they were ugly and all, but they were talking to me"· M. Wise So come one come all to the largest festival on campus the evening of the Tenn. game. 



page 12 The Observer 

The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
Wake up the echoes 
Members of the pom pon squad make some noise Thursday in the ACC as they prepare for the upcoming basketball season. 

Surveys: Smoking down in U.S. 

ATLANTA (AP)-Smoking in the United States is down again, to its lowest level ever, and the age of those who start smoking also has dropped, according to two federal surveys released Thursday. 
'' 
1. 
The Centers for Disease Con­trol reported that the U.S. smoking rate fell to 28 percent in 1988, down a percentage point from a year earlier. That rate includes 31 percent among men, 26 percent among women, 
' 
( 
.. 28 percent among whites, 32 percent among blacks and 24 percent among Hispanics. 
Smoking is significantly higher among those who have gone through bad marriages, the CDC noted. Among sepa­rated or divorced people, 43 percent smoke, compared with 27 percent of married or single Americans and 20 percent of widowed Americans. 

"Separated and divorced per­sons (are) less likely to have quit smoking," the Atlanta­based CDC said. "Social support provided in marriage may increase the probability of ces­sation, while stress ... from 
If you see news happening call 239-5303 and let us know. 
marital discord may dP.r.rP.ase the likelihood of quitting." 
The CDC also reported that the least educated Americans smoke the most; 34 percent of high school dropouts smoke, compared with 16 percent of college graduates. 
The CDC report, based on a 1988 survey of U.S. adults, points to an overall smoking trend that has been in place since the surgeon general's landmark warning against smoking in 1964. At that time, 40 percent of the nation smoked; by 1985, it was 30 percent. 
Meanwhile, the CDC reported that those who do smoke are starting younger and younger. 
A study of five decades of smokers found that those born in the 1950s, on average, started smoking at the age of 
17.4 
years -compared with 

18.2 
years for smokers born in the '30s, and 19.7 years for smokers born from 1910-1919. 


The CDC did not report the average starting ages for Americans born after 1959. But other data show the trend to­

~~ 917 W. McKinley, Mishawaka Novelties
Cards 
~(Across from Town & Country) Party Supplies 
Gifts 
-.=:::=:/ (219} 256-9075 
I0% Student Discount 
Store Hours 
Not valid
Mon -Wed 9 -5:30 
Ell withany
Thurs -Fri 9 -8:00 
other coupon
Sat 9-2:00 
ward younger smoking is con­tinuing, said David Nelson, a CDC smoking research special­ist. 
"Things haven't changed," he said. "If anything, it appears people born from 1960-64 are even more likely to start smok­ing at younger ages." 
The CDC study also found an increasing gap between races in the time smokers start smoking. Blacks and whites born from 1910-1919 started at the same average age. By the time smokers born in the 1950s got started, there was more than a year's difference: whites started at an average age of 17.2, blacks at 18.3 years. 
That tendency of white smok­ers to start younger has been seen in other studies of high­school-age Americans. Possible explanations include black and white social attitudes, health beliefs and socioeconomics ­the ability to afford cigarettes, Nelson said. 
"But there's no good research on that," he said. "Anything I'm saying is a guess.... It clearly needs to be looked at." 
Friday, November 8,1991 

Pee-wee Herman pleads no contest 
SARASOTA, Fla. (AP) -The 
actor who plays Pee-wee Her­
man pleaded no contest Thurs­
day to indecent exposure 
charges in a plea bargain that 
requires him to make an anti­
drug public service commercial. 
Prosecutors said Paul 
Reubens' plea, if successfully 
completed, would leave him 
with no criminal record. 

"Why go through a trial when 
this can be resolved ... in a plea 
that's extremely fair and rea­
sonable to him and will allow 
him to get on with his life?" 
asked Reubens' attorney, 
Richard Gerstein. 

"Mr. Reubens continues to in­
sist upon his innocence -it 
was a plea of convenience." 

Reubens showed up in Sara­sota County Courthouse clean­shaven and with his hair cropped short in Pee-wee style, in contrast to the mugshot of him with a goatee, glasses and long hair after his arrest at an adult theater July 26. 
Reubens, 39, plays a chuck­ling, bow-tied and nerdy char­acter in television's "Pee-wee's Playhouse" and such movies as "Pee-wee's Big Adventure." 
Detectives claimed they saw Reubens masturbate twice in 10 minutes. He was charged with indecent exposure, a misdemeanor that carries a maximum penalty of 60 days in jail and a $500 fine. 
Under the plea, Reubens must pay a $50 fine plus $85 court costs. Producing and paying for the nationally distributed anti­drug TV spot would fulfill a 75­hour community service re­quirement. 
Reubens slipped in and out of the courthouse through a side door and gave only "yes" and "no" answers to Judge Judy Goldman. 
She noted Reubens' "creative genius and ability" and de­clared, "It is my hope that by giving something back to the 
~rtAtllj Rest.urent & '-'R a;..n • Cocktail Lounge 'UALL Authentic Szechuan, 
,,ft Mandarin & Hunen Culslnto 
Lmv:bM atarting at_-----· · 4 5 
DIDD«a .tartinq at...____ .$5. 
Bar & Restaurant open 1..,. .......TJan.11:30 Lm.to 10 p.m., Fr1.-5al.11:30 •.m. to 11 p.m. Sun.6 .,.....,, 11:• .... to tO p.m. 
~..-.....lnn)......,_.,....,r• 

. 53 95

Authentic lirish Timypxort§ coming to the Lafortune Student Center Nov 8-9 10 am-8 pm jewelry, Sweaters, Music, Sweatshirts -T's and ®Items. Or call us from home-We ship U.P.S. GllEATEll COLUMBUS CONVENTION CENTEII 400 NORTII HIGH STiliiT COLUMBUS, OHIO •121S (61'1 ~61.0346 FAX (61•1 22..3050  

community, some restoration of 
a positive manner will occur." 
Reubens will help write and 
produce the commercial-length 
video but won't star in it, said 
defense lawyer Ronald Ores­
nick. "There may be a charac­
ter or two from 'Pee-wee's 
Playhouse' in it," he said. 
Under the plea, Heubens nei­
ther admits nor denies guilt. 
The court retains supervision 
for six months, but that can end 
earlier if Reubens finishes the 
video and pays the fine. 
Reubens' attorney has main­tained that testimony of the undercover detectives was questionable and that a theater security camera videotape showed Reubens in the lobby at the time he allegedly was inside exposing himself. 
"Paul is very pleased by to­day's outcome," Reube ns' spokesman Larry Goldman said in a statement. "Having estab­lished his innocence to his fans and his public, Paul has nothing more to win by going to trial." 
· Reubens, who lives in Studio City, Calif., grew up in Sarasota and was on a visit when ar­rested. Early ·plea negotiations broke down when authorities released his dour booking pho­tos. 
After his arrest, CBS dropped remaining episodes of "Pee­wee's Playhouse" and Disncy­MGM Studios in Florida cut a Pee-wee video from a theme park tour. Psychologists began suggesting ways to break the news to children. 
At the same time, entertain­ers such as Bill Cosby, Joan Rivers and Cyndi Lauper rallied to his defense. 
Critics questioned the priori­ties and tactics of the Sarasota County sheriff's office, which on the night of the arrest had three detectives inside the theater watching patrons as "Nancy Nurse" and "Turn Up the Heat" played on the screen. 

•' 
Viewpoint 

Friday, November 8, 1991 page 13 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willen Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Will the real Monk please stand up?· 
Recently, Father Edward Malloy was elected to serve his second term as University president. 
When he was elected to his first term five years ago, he had the burden of following Father Theodore Hesburgh at the University's helm. While nobody expected Malloy to be another Hesburgh, it was hoped that Malloy would use his administrative abilities and down-to-earth personality to give the President's office a new identity. Sadly, that hasn't happened. 
After five years, we think the honeymoon is over. 
When he was chosen president on Nov. 14, 1986, Malloy told The Observer .that he believed "in consultation, in collabrative style, in listening." This collaborative leadership strategy can be an asset, but in the past five years, it has come to be a liability for Malloy. 
The most recent example of this liability is Malloy's handling of the Students United For Respect issue last spring. Had Malloy taken quicker action on the issue, much of the controversy could have been avoided. However, he didn't-which further angered ethnic students and white students alike. There are issues and events that requirequick decisions, not establishment of task forces and committees. 
Perhaps Malloy might try to increase student input into his collaborations. He is known to be down-to-earth, but what happens during the walk from Sorin to the third floor of the Administration Building that seals Malloy off from the students? 
Malloy needs only to look to his "State of the Faculty" address to see how he can increase student input. Why not have a "State of the Students" address, complete with a question and answer period, to examine student concerns? That would allow students at least one avenue to provide input. 
Having a higher profile on campus couldn't hurt Malloy either. Onless you live in Sorin (or spend large amounts of time there), you probably don't see much of him. The first step in getting to know someone is knowing they are around. With Malloy, sometimes we're not so sure. 
The past five years with Malloy have been far from a disaster. Among other things, he has taken postive steps toward improving the status of women at Notre Dame and he has been successful at raising money. But the time has come for Malloy to shake off Hesburgh's shadow and come into his own. So we ask: 
Will the real father Malloy please stand up? 
THEBAO
ANY 
NfiAJS IS 7HAT
BReAK-P055/Bl-Y. 
TH~Rt:NT'S
7HRtXJ6HS~ I UNW 
[J(J8. HaJJ'{/ 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Navy ROTC unit announces food drive 
Dear Editor: 
In conjunction with the Hope Rescue Mission of South Bend, the Navy ROTC unit here at Notre Dame proudly announces its first annual Canned Food/Fundraising Drive. 
The holiday season is a joyous one hear at ND -a campus bathed in the glorious colors of late autumn, home football weekends with alumni making the pilgrimage that we will all someday make, good friends, the security and shelter of col­lege life, and memories that will last a lifetime. 
As Thanksgiving and Christmas approach, the great­est worry that most of us feel are final exams that draw closer with each passing day. And each passing day draws us -all of us, closer to graduation, and the infamous, much talked about "real world." 
And in that world into which we must all venture, there are people who will never share in the joy of the season that is upon us. Into the comfortable, cozy, vigorous, and ambitious world that is ND, they gaze from the outside -cold, hungry, lonely, bitter, afraid. 

The holidays to many are just a colder period in an already unjust and difficult existence. And these people are not just in New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles -many of our less ad­vantaged brothers and sisters are here in South Bend -just a few miles off-campus on South Michigan Street. And the peo­ple who staff the Hope Rescue Mission are trying to help. 
This holiday season, we can all help, too. For the next two weeks, Nov. 11-Nov. 27, we will be staffing North and South Dining Halls and LaFortune at lunch, collecting both cash/check donations and/or canned goods. Representatives will be talking with hall coun­cils, accepting donations, and collection bins will be at North and South Dining Halls, LaFortune, the ROTC building, 
· and Decio for canned goods. With such an extensive net­work, it will be possible for all members of the Notre Dame Family to help us help the Hope Rescue Mission. In these diffi­cult and confusing economic and political times, we can make a difference -Right here, Right now -and we can start with the South ·Bend Community. We will all be in that "real world" someday, and we may, at some point, need a helping hand too. In a poignant, com­monly used phrase, we are re­minded -"But for the grace of God, there go you or I." Let's do the right thing this holiday season and share this joyous time with others. Thank you for your support. 
Chris Dowd and Kelly McDermott Co-coordinators 1991 NROTC Canned Food Drive/Fundraiser Nov. 8, 1991 

Letter on homosexuality needs more support 
Dear Editor: 
My friend and colleague, physician-philosopher AI Howsepian's letter {The Observer, Nov. 1) states the conclusion of a sincere and carefully executed considera­tion of the issues and literature relevant to the effectiveness of therapeutic strategies intended to modify homosexual behavior. 
Obviously, however, it does only that. Dr. Howsepian's conclusion represents his view of a field he knows is highly controverted. He knows, in other words, that persons as well or better qualified then he 
8UCKS.
UPANOT'H£R 
ACCCVNTANT. OF MONtY
YWMAKE 
IT'S AU
J08/N7CR­
TWAY~
WT T()l)AY '? 
?HeRe.
VIWFOR 
/ \ 
_fi-;;.,....~ ~­
\ \ 
~ \ 
YOUUHAVE AUX? 
TW
7001t0<. OIOM011MY 
lrl/UION
IUITH MY MAK&L.OTS 

disagree both with the detail a precisely stated level of and with the implications of his effectiveness for such treat­position. His letter makes no ment. He should also briefly mention of such disagreement. state moral reasoning indicat­
The publication of Dr. ing that failure to call attention Howsepian 's letter has serious to this evidence is a fault ho­professional, moral and clinical mophiles should remedy. implications which can only be The Observer should publish addressed charitably if Dr. this essay as soon as Dr. Howsepian prepares, as expedi­Howsepian makes it available. tiously as possible given his The Observer should then give many responsibilities, a short the same opportunity to an essay analyzing the clinical lit­equally qualified defender of erature, experience and the partially or wholly opposed moral reasoning supporting his conclusions. position. Edward Manier 
That is, he should discuss Philosophy Department published evidence supporting Nov. 2, 1991 
GARRY TRlJDEAI J QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I 
1RUST 
you, 
HON&Y. 
\ 


'By working faithfully eight hours a day, you may eventually get to be a boss and work 12 hours a day.' 
Robert Frost 
Take a break, submit a quote: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND,/N 46556 



i i 
1 
NOVEMBER 8-10 
~·--·...,.-.;..-...... ---~, ...... , ----~~~-·~--.;;·,~-~---.--._ .... -~~-~-:;-~-="M""i.~~-::_;:·. ­
:::==:xl 
,weekend calendarl 
i I 
I 
friday l 
MUSIC ~
• 
Duke Tumatoe, Club Shenanigans, 10:00 p.m. i 
I 


EVENTS Night of the Assassins, Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m. 
I 
Shenanigan's Alumni Reunion Concert, Washington i Hall, 9:00 p.m. 
I 

& 
!i' ,. ., saturday 
~ 
~I 
'• MUSIC Freddy Jones, Club Shenanigans, 10:00 p.m. 
EVENTS Shenanigan's Pre-Game Show, JACC, 11:45 a.m. NO vs Tennessee, Notre Dame Stadium, 1:30 p.m. Night of the Assassins, Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m. 
sunday 
MUSIC Night of the Assassins, Washington Hall, 3:1 0 p.m. 
I. ,_ 
films 
SATURDAY "Johnny Dangerously," Cushing Auditorium, 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m. "Guilty by Suspicion," Annenburg Auditorium, 
7:30 & 9:45 p.m. 
FRIDAY 
"Johnny Dangerously," Cushing Auditorium, 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m. "Guilty by Suspicion," Annenburg Auditorium, 
7:30 & 9:45 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "Little Man Tate," 7:20 & 9:30 p.m. "Highlander II," 7:30 & 9:40 p.m. "House Party II," 7:15 & 9:20 p.m. 

:·I 
"Paradise," 7:40 & 9:50p.m.

i~ 
"Ricochet," 7:10 & 9:10p.m.J "Frankie & Johnny," 7:00 &9:25p.m. i .fj 
,,_J j 

'tJ 
.~~ 
I ·J 
'') 

Here come the cheerleaders 
By JULIE WILKENS 
Accent Writer 
0 
n the field longer than the football team. Able to defy gravity with ease. More spirited for four hours straight than hu­manly possible. Is it the Leprechaun? Not quite. It's the cheerleaders. 
An All-American symbol of the Notre Dame image, the fourteen cheerleaders and two alternates have made a difficult job look almost easy. Smiling broadly, the women perform stunts with no concern to the several meters of space that stand between them and the ground. The men casually lift their female partners high above their heads before catching them in a graceful "cradle". 
"The feeling of being down on the field during the game is in­credible," said co-captain, ju­nior Tyler Moore. He stated further, "When I first joined cheerleading, it was because I knew I wasn't big enough to play football. Cheerleading is the only other way apart from managing to be that involved with the sport. It's great to be a mediator between the student body and the game." 
But who wouldn't want to be a cheerleader for a nationally­ranked football team? There is a definite prestige associated with the position. "Plus the friendships built," added Moore. "The caliber of the people on the squad is incredi­ble." Coach Maria Majerek an ex-cheerleader for the Los An­geles Rams agreed. "You gain life-long friends. Even after they graduate, many people keep in touch. In fact, during the Homecoming (Navy) week­end, we had a reunion for the four original female cheerlead­ers from the class of '69-'70." 
But wearing the blue and gold uniform has its disadvantages. "We miss out on a lot of roommate bonding," admitted Moore. "Especially much of the dorm life. When we're on the road, we usually miss SYR's and formals." Moore also added a comment from his co-captain, senior Jessica Chiappetta, who was at the time out of town. "Jessica once said how weird it was to look at pictures her roommates had. Out of every ten, there would be one she was in." 
The time commitment is im­mense. The squad practices Monday through Thursday from four to six. On Fridays before games, they add a practice before the pep rally. The squad is also asked to make ap­pearances in the area three to four times a month. Add this to the time taken during the Saturday morning bookstore performance and the actual game. It is no wonder that the squad has little time outside cheering. 

"One of the best parts of cheerleading is traveling," said Moore. "It's great to go to away games and see how wide­spread the Notre Dame family is. The spirit at away games is incredible." But there have been some horror stories. "Walking by fraternity tail­gaters at Stanford, we were pelted with submarine sand­wiches and heads of lettuce. They thought we were hungry," said Majerek wryly. 
Try-outs for the squad are extremely competitive. Two weeks after Spring Break, the try-outs consist of four stunts. Stunting refers to all move­ments involving a guy lifting a girl in the air. Also required is twnbling, a performance of the Fight Song and a cheer, per­formance of an individually­choreographed routine, and an interview. 
"For most candidates, what we do is a new experience," said Majerek. "Few high schools involve boys in their cheerleading programs." Moore can attest to this. "When I first joined cheerleading, there was some teasing about being a guy cheerleader, a lot of general stereotypes. Most people don't realize what goes into it. But I think we've opened people's eyes once they've seen what we do." 
But what about the dangers? Watching the squad perform can give one a whole new fear of heights. "We haven't had anything serious," assured Moore. "Just a few stitches earlier in the year." 
"We mark it through," said Majerek. "We examine what's going to happen if someone falls one way or another. It's very focused. Everything is spotted. Last year the Leprechaun broke his arm, and this was under the best of conditions. I told the guys on day one. No matter what, not one girl's butt is going to hit the ground. I don't care if they have to dive for it!" 
Majerek also stressed the up­coming year. "I'd like to en­courage people to start thinking about try-outs. People shouldn't be intimidated. What's important is how fast people catch on." 
Just this past Tuesday, Ma­jerek joined the new men's bas­ketball coach, John McCloud on a trip to see the Chicago Bulls. "It's wonderful to have a coach that is interested in all facets of the game. Going to the Bulls game, we got more ideas on in­creasing the excitement be­tween the cheerleaders and the band. We're working on a whole new program this year." 
Whether leading the crowd in yelling "We are ND", or defying gravity, the cheerleading squad has it's work cut out for them. Many hours of every cheer­leader's life is directly devoted to the University. But the bene­fits aren't bad. 
Like, isn't there a game in Hawaii soon? 
at the Notre Dame versus Michigan State gar 
Feel the 
By JULIE WILKENS Accent Writer 
P 
om Pon squad? What Porn Pon squad?? Although this may be news to some, Notre Dame does indeed possess a Porn Pon squad. Made up of fourteen girls, the squad choreographs and performs their own routines. 
"Before this year, people would come up to us, asking if we were cheerleaders," said co-captain Rosella Portolesi. Fellow captain, Noemi Bueser chimes in, "Even after we began performing at the pep rallies this year. people would pull us aside and tell us they never knew we even existed... 
The season for the squad begins at camp each summer. It continues through 
pa e 15 


e e 
1r1 



The Observer/Macy Hueckel pyramid as the ND Cheerleading Squad display their talents at keeping the crowd spirited me. 

~m Me arthy serves up safety with atwist 
ByEUSAKLOSTERMAN After he warned drivers to be careful, 
Accent Writer "everyone sat there and waited" for his 
pun. McCarthy knew he had a good 
T 
he night pep rallies to the thing going, and has not disappointed 
post-game alumni reunions, fans since. 

Notre Dame home football Some simple math will reveal that 
games are chock full of McCarthy has used a lot of puns in the 
traditions. Traditions which past thirty years. How does he come up 
loyal fans follow religiously. with them? 

One such tradition involves the Indiana "Throughout the year I'm always 
State Police. looking for a play on words, and when I 
While "a brush with the law can be a hear one, I jot it down," McCarthy ex­hair-raising experience" for many, at plains. Before the season starts, he tries Notre Dame, football fans eagerly to put them all together into quips which anticipate one man's message of traffic will relate and lead into his safety safety. For the past thirty-one years, this message. Occasionally he receives man has had the power to silence the suggestions from Notre Dame or Saint crowds, and to make them laugh at his Mary's students, but most of them, he serious words of caution. Just who is states, he "couldn't possibly use." this guru of traffic safety, and why do we At the game, McCarthy can be found in 
stop our cheering to listen -----------the press box, and during to him with rapt attention? the fourth quarter he sits Well, sports fans, his with Mike Collins, the an-name is Tim McCarthy, and nouncer, in the Public he has kept Notre Dame Address Booth. When football fans in stitches Collins anticipates a break since 1961, when he first in play, he gives McCarthy started using puns during the go ahead signal. Still a his traffic safety announce-little nervous after thirty­ments in order to keep the one years, McCarthy has crowds' attention. -:;~ everything, including his McCarthy, who was born F name, written out on a in Fort Wayne, Ind., and Tim McCarthy notecard. As soon as the raised an Irish Catholic. He fans hear, "May I have 
joined the Indiana State your attention please? Police Force in 1953, where he served This is Sergeant Tim McCarthy ... ," the for twenty-five years. stadium becomes silent. 
He retired briefly, and was elected the Some McCarthy favorites: sheriff of Porter County in 1979. After "If you try to pull the wool over a serving two successful four-year terms as policeman's eyes, he may see through the sheriff, McCarthy retired again. Within yarn." seven months he was appointed to the "When it's only coffee, there's no position of Porter County Assessor, which grounds for trouble." he still holds. He currently resides with "If you have too many glasses, you his wife in Porter. They have two could become a spectacle." children, Timothy and Colleen. "If you horse around with traffic safety, 
McCarthy became involved in Notre you could get saddled with tickets." Dame football when he was promoted to And a good one for last weekend: "It's sergeant and Public Information Officer safe to keep out of the soup, even when in 1960, with two games left in the it's chili." season. At the time, the public safety A Notre Dame fan since he was a little announcements were very formal and kid, McCarthy remembers listening to straightforward. Continuing with the Angelo Burteli on the radio, before TV. formal tradition, McCarthy's first two McCarthy states, "I never dreamed I'd be messages were very mundane and to-attending as many home games as I have the-point. However, no one listened to since 1960." He has high hopes for the him. At the beginning of the next season, football team this year, and comments, McCarthy started using little quips with "They get better with each game." his messages, hoping to gain some at-Of his job, McCarthy says, "I love to do tention. it. I'll keep doing it for as long as they 
His ploy worked, and his fans were ask me." Fortunately for the fans, it hooked. At one game during his fourth seems this is one tradition we'll be able year, McCarthy decided not to use a pun. to enjoy for a long time to come. 
enthusiasm of the Pam Pan Squad 
football season, with performances at the Friday Night Pep Rallies, Saturday morning at the JACC for the alumni, and a performance in front of the bookstore. They also perform for some baseball games and a few women's basketball games. They begin holding clinics in January and try-outs take place some time after Spring Break. 
Practices are two hours a day, five days a week. "With performing on Fridays and Saturdays, and all the other things we need to do to keep this club running, we average a minimum of fifteen hours weekly," explained Portolesi. The "other things" include fundraising and choreography. "We're not University endorsed," offered Bueser. "We're only considered a club sport. 
Beyond the money that all clubs are given, we have to do everything on our own." 
The Porn Pon squad first originated several years ago in place of the Dancin' Irish. The Dancin' Irish, a group that once performed during football half­times, was disbanded by the University. The following year, a new group was formed. This was the start of the squad. 
"The biggest difference between the Porn Pon squad and the cheerleading squad would be that they're more stunt orientated," explained Bueser. "We're more of a dance group, though we both promote spirit." Both Portolesi and Bueser recognize the visibility of the cheerleaders versus their sometimes anonymity. "It's understandable," said Bueser. "We're in a building stage. We're building our reputation, especially with the new talent coming in." 
Both captains admitted their hopes for future recognition. "We would love to perform during basketball half-times," expressed Bueser. "But we can't expect it yet." "We feel we have to prove ourselves first," explained Portolesi. "We're still young." 
Despite the long hours and the lack of recognition, Bueser and Portolesi agree that the rewards are worth it. "You bond so close. You get fourteen friends automatically," says Portolesi. Bueser agreed.. "And hey, it's exercise. It gets you away from the books." To become a member of the Porn Pon squad, one must endure three days of try-outs. The first day consists of learning the Fight Song along with the first half of a dance routine. This is then performed along with an interview in front of a panel of judges consisting of the squad captains and faculty members. The second day consists of the second half of the dance routine and a kick routine. On day three, all routines, including those from the first clinic are performed. "Last year around forty to fifty girls tried out," said Bueser. "But around eighty girls went to the first clinic. Many cut themselves." 

It can't be easy putting so much time into an activity for so little recognition. Yet, it's obvious what drives them. "We love it," says Portolesi simply. And when you see them jammin' to the music, you have to believe them. 
.-----~--------~-----­
!f 
Friday, November 8, 1991
page 16 The Observer 

Needed: A Little Heart, a lot of Brotherhood 
According to the rumor mill, they walk on. Bernard Levin, their cars to the buildings the entire Student Center may writing in the London Times, where their work is, Notre be orr-limits to smoking. if the Father Robert Griffin has predicted that if you Dame could become a pedes­
recommendations made by the rounded up smokers, and trian campus free of gas fumes. Task Force on smoking are im-locked them behind gates in a If the University were to ap­plemented. I do not approve, Letters to a Lonely God ghetto, eventually the hard-core point a task force that would and I am not resigned. Is there nonsmokers would start fire-even consider making the Notre not room in that whole vast bombing the ghetto as though Dame campus traffic-free; building for one small smokers' and in the streets, it doesn't "Quelle dommage! Did you take they were pro-lifers attacking eliminating the cars that keep corner? Are smokers, aspiring frighten the horses. it to the Lord in prayer?" an abortion mill. us worried about the safety of to be politically correct, con-When I joined the Catholic As an underling serving the Notre Dame should have students and slow-moving demned to believe that they Church in 1944, I was relieved Good Shepherd, I've noticed places where I can light up with priests and other members of have no rights? to be liberated from the born-that smoking can be the tie that dignity. On a campus so big, the Notre Dame family -why, 
The Republican party's late again Baptists, for whom binds. As soon as you start why should smokers be driven then, I would cheerfully sign up Lee Atwater, stricken with a smoking is a sin that should sharing cigarettes with one of underground? Why should they for a seminar offered by the brain tumor, offered this vale-warn you that your heart isn't life's losers, the bonding begins be made to feel guilty, as Heart Association that would dictory on what's been happen-right with Jesus. As a Catholic, I that will turn you into his friend though their cigarette smoke help me quit smoking. ing in America: "Long before I learned that smoking is the one for life. were the only form of pollution One has to trust the Task was struck with cancer, I felt great sacrament of grace under Once he's receptive to the that Domers have to try to sur­Force on smoking to be rea­something stirring in American press.ure endorsed by the truths you live by, he's halfway vive. sonable and fair. As a curmud­society. priests; and that's why soldiers, there, whether he believes you The noise pollution can be geon, fallen into the sere and 
It was a sense among the going into battle, smoke so or not. Smoking doesn't gener-maddening. The graffiti on yellow leaf, who has cultivated people of the country...that incessantly. ate miracles ex opere operato; walls is the kind of visual pol-smoking as the major vice of his something was missing from but like preparing food or lution that insults the mind. The life, I'm too low on the totem their lives, something cru-In 1917, the American Red making love, it can become an pollution that worries me the pole to demand tradeoffs; but cial...But I wasn't sure what ·it' Cross, handing out packs of art form that leaves you ful-most is from the garbage left shouldn't tradeoff's be possible was. My illness helped me to Camels to the expeditionary filled, and replaces the nada strewn in the grass, after it has in a Christian community? see that what was missing in forces on their way to France, that keeps your soul empty. been dropped by students. Maybe smoke-free dorms are society is what was missing in elevated smoking to the level of If you show me a lonely man, The American way is made an idea whose time has come; me: a little heart, a lot of a viatacum that the lads could I'll show you a fellow who has possible by tradeoffs. I smoke but if it should happen, students brotherhood." take with them, after an agape never learned the creative uses heavily; on the other hand, I've should be told whose oxen have 
The handwriting on the wall of coffee and doughnuts. of smoking, which, give him a never owned a car, or had a been gored and sacrificed to has been visible ever since the Professionals, left breathless lift when he's reading a book or driver's license. The pollution pay the price. Task Force was announced: by a client letting his cat out of listening to music. But if he from the gas-guzzlers that "Smokers, drop dead! We've the bag, appreciate smoking as should give up smoking, once it speed past me on the road by Young Catholics, who should started the revolution without a covering action they can hide has enriched him, he'd feel the lakes is truly lethal. But if I be learning that's there's no you." behind, until they get the wind abandoned, as though his can be tolerant of the cars, why such .thing as a free lunch have 
Still, I have faith in Notre back in their sails. When I hear, muses had left him, turning him can't the students who drive been asking to be supplied Dame as a kinder, gentler place. "I just tested positively for the into an orphan. them be tolerant of my smok-gratis with condoms, imprinted The members of the Task Force, AIDS virus," this is one of the I could prove from history ing? no doubt with the leprechaun striving to be fair, could shine times I have to reach for the that smoking has been the Are the thousands of cars left logos. I'm only asking that I be with a million points of light; for mask that hides compassion, helpmeet of geniuses; but if I in the parking lots really neces-allowed to keep my ashtray, and none of them, I'm sure, is a since I'm not very sophisticated, should belabor the point, you sary? If the students left their for a clean, well-lighted place simply bluenose, like the killjoys and I react visibly to the tears may accuse me of whining. I automobiles at home instead of where I can use it. In the in charge of a temperance of things and the mortality that don't ask Notre Dame for the bringing them to Notre Dame, world's view, condoms are like society. Some of them may not touches the heart. When I find right to smoke always and ev-then the parking spaces would life rafts that help you survive; believe that smoking is myself travelling in the fast erywhere. be left available for the staff and ash trays are like land­defensible; but once they've lane, I inhale thoughtfully on I believe that non-smokers people and faculty to use when mines triggering cancer in the considered the alternative vices, the lighted cigarette that every are entitled to a place in the they drive their cars to work. If lungs of a dying breed. they'd have to agree that when chain-smoker keeps at his sun; but why must they be-they would walk from the off-Task Force on smoking. it's done outside the bedroom fingertins. Then I answer: grudge smokers the ground that campus lots, where they've left please give us a break. 
t-<~~~~,~~<:=>.IIK~~?~i~'~~,-~~~·~<·~·~,~t~~~~::~~~<')GC<;~~<;~-::.~~~"''>.a~K;~>-~~;:~:,~-f~­
1 Ig Autograph Party I 
Featuring
I 
I 
I . ~ 

Sports Commentator
.. !""
i 
'~~~,._... ~..-~'~·-·' 
I
i 

I Who Will Be
i 
I 

AutographingI His New Book 
The inside scoop on the NCAA from America's #I 

college hoops junkie SATURDAY, Nov.9 9am·IOam 
First Floor Hammes 
'f tC"•C t Cl. '~"""HP\'('~1 ·'BI'I,.";! r'.n.,. ~·r.. -· .. 4 ..-.. 
I·. . 'w ';w#,-.A,... I• (

. I r .
I Friday: November 8, 1991 The Observer page 17 
The Observer accepts classified& every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 31-4 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saim Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day daadieds is 3p.m. All class~ieds
: Classifieds 
I'T1JSt be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, induding all spaces. 
EARN $2000 + FREE SPRING 
BREAK TRIPS! 

NOTICES 
North America's #1 Student Tour Operator seeking motivated TYPING AVAILABLE students, organizations, fraternities 287-4082 and sororities as campus representatives promoting Cancun, Buy and Sell used books Bahamas, Daytona and Panama Pandora •s Books-=-newbooks and City! the NY Times tool! Call 1-(800) 724-1555! 
ICE SKATING INSTRUCTORS 233-2342/1 0-5:30 everyday for Wednesday nights, 6:45­corner of NO ave and Howard 9:15 pm. Call Mrs. Myers at 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 287-4524 and please list your qualifications.
237-1949 
The Early Childhood Development Center(ECDC) is having a BOOK FOR RENT FAIR: 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY

Nov. 8, 11-14 
219-291-7153 

7:30am-5:30pm Books for children preschool thru 6th grade, Disoovery toys, 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE 

World Books/Childcraft. Great NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT 
HOLIDAY GIFTS for the whole SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6 
family. Proceeds benefit ECDC PEOPLE 2773097 
classrooms. If ? 
call 284-4693 BEDROOM FOR RENT IN A HOME 
MEN'S GROUP $200/MO. USE OF ALL UTILITIES, . LAUNDRY, ETC. 
For Graduate Students CALL PAUL ROY 232-2794. 
An opportunity to discuss Issues for today's man Including: 
2 Bed/2 Bath Condo, 1518 N. 

Benefits &limits of male Oakhill. 5 min walk from 
roles campus. January avail. 
Costs of performing and · References/Deposit 273 pursuing 
-1329. 

Emerging men's movements Group will meet weeky at the UniversitY Counseling Center on 
A quaint studio in lovely old Thurdays from 3:30-5:00 PM. Call 
mansion 112 mile from N.D. $225/I. Len Hickman or Clint Gabbard to mo. plus deposit call 2879624 ' join 239-7336. 

I FOR SALE I 

LOST/FOUNO I B.;the Taxi Xmas com;ngl B.and 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN WITH CROSS new full-length silver fox coat, ON SATURDAY AT GAME. CALL medium. 255-4139. 284-5093. 
TO THE PERSON WHO 
'76 VOLVO 245 WAGON. 3 SEAT, 7 BORROWED THE TAN OVER­
PASS. NO RUST OR DENTS. NEW COAT HALLOWEEN NIGHT ON 
BRAKES, TIRES EXHAUST. 4

i THE RIDE TO LAFAYETTE SO., SPEED WITH OVERDRIVE. $1800 ~: COULD YOU PLEASE CALL MARK OR 810.684-6129.f OR KEVIN 289-6494 
LOST: A GOLD BRACELET OF 
IBM compatible computer, two GREAT SENTIMENTAL floppy drives, Epson printer, blw VALUE-AROUND THE 
monitor--$350 or best offer call JACC OR WASHINGTON 
X3352 HALL. PLEASE CALL 1456 
KNOLLWOOD RANCH! Quality FOUND: ADVANCED RUSSIAN 
thru-out, many extras! Over 2000 NOTEBOOK LEFT IN OBSERVER 
sq. ft. I Call Rodger Pendl, Cressy & OFFICE. PLEASE PICK IT UP. IT 
Everett 233-6141 . LOOKS SERIOUS. 
lost: Fuji camera on Halloween in TENN. STUD. TIK FOR SALE 
parking lot of either Club 23 or the 
$75 OR BEST OFFER Commons. If found please call CALL SEAN AT #1656 Sheila #2547. 
2 ring• '"';n SMC Computec Lab. 
I TICKETS

I I
WANTED ;:;,;;;OOTBALL TICKETS Contact Beth at 284-4246 WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. $$Reward 
FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOMEALASKA SUMMER GAMES273-1802

EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! 
Help!!! I'm in dire need ofOver 8,000 openings. No Tennesssee G.A.'s. Please callexperience necessary. MALE or Andy @ 233-9588. 

1 FEMALE. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext 118. 
Roses are red 
Violets are blueGymnastic instructor to teach young I'm schizophrenicchildren. Must enjoy working with And so am I.

children. Must also have your own So I need an extratransportation. Will train, flexible Tenn. GA.
hours. Send resume to: Todd X2371 
BRYSON STAPLES 
403 E. TERRACE DRIVE Need 4 tix for Tenn. 11/9 Big$ pd.
JEFFERSONVILLE, IN 47130 Call 283-1897 Jim or collect 908 
.......................... 449-0589. 
BABYSITTER NEEDED DURING 
TENNESSEE GAME. GOOD Need 2 student or GA's for Tenn.
PAYI!! 
Joe 277-9924 

STAY WARM ANDMAKE MONEY SELLING TENNESSEE STUDENTWATCHING THE GAME ON TV. 
TICKETS. LUIS: 273-1528CALL STEVE AT X2255. 

NEED Tenn. Tix

Earn $2500 &Free Trips Selling X4040
Spring Break Packages To Bahamas, Mexioo, Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips &Prices! Spring Break 
NEED Tenn. TixTravel1-800-638-6786. 

x4040 GA or Stud.

$350.00/0AY PROCESSING 
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL I NEED TENN. STUD'S OR GA'SYOU. 
CALL CHRIS #1245 THANX 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 
NEED ONE TENN GA TICKET;1-800-255-0242 CALL DAVE 283-1545 NEED 2 PENN ST TIX; DAVE 283­1545 

I need 1 stud or GA ticket for Tennessee. Call Henry at 272-9326. If not home, leave a message. 
Ohhhhhhhhhhhhl Please help me. I need 2 GA's for Tennessee more than life itself. I'm sure I can help you out in return. For instance, I give great sax. If that isn't music to your ears, we'll work something else out. Just call Man at x2058. 
NEED 4 TENN Tix-STUD or GA Call Bill at -4186 
Need Tenn. Stud. & GA's. Call #3718. 
ROUND TRIP TIXS TO HAWAII FOR GAME CALL LORI:277-4293 
NEED TENNGA'S CALL CATHY 232-5399 
5 TENN. TIX FOR SALE. RICK 289-4622 
**HELP** NEED TENN TIX BAD!! CALL BOB @ 289-6541 
CHEAP! CHEAP! CHEAP! 2 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS TO HAWAII OVER THANKSGIVING CALL X3457 
I HAVE 2 GA, TENN CALL 288-0730 EVENINGS 
2 Tenn. marr. stu. tix for sale 277-5348 
i need 2 TENN stud tix. Dave (slut) X1791 
i need 1 TENNGA. Ruben x1803 
Need GA or student ticket for TENN game. Call Amy 283-1347. 
DESPERATE FOR 2 TENN. GA'S. WILL PAY THRU NOSE. CALL JEFF 234-6963. 
NEED TENN STUD TIX X3543 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 3 GA'S or Student tix Call Mike@ 273-2103 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
TENNESSEE STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE.If interested, please call 284-3814. Leave your name, number and the price you are willing to pay. 
Desperately needed: 2 Tennessee GAs Call Mike x3546 
PLEASE FOR FAMILY 2 TENN 
G.A .s Jenny #3822 
I NEED 4 TN GA'S Call Ed X 1790 
For Sale: 2 Penn St GAs x2558 Amy 
NEED 1 Tenn. ticket Call Ann -x2808 
It's Friday and I still need plenty of Tennessee tickets. Please give me a hand and sell me yours. 
Call Andy @ 233-9588. 
PLEASE I NEED 1 TN TX STUD OR GA CALL MICHELLE "2811 
I NEED USC,TENN,PITI,& NAVY GA TIXS.272-6306 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME$ CALL COLLECT 812-477-2627 
Need 2 GA's for Navy and Tennessee. Call Tim at x1417. 
I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC and Tennessee. Chris 239-5713 
NEED PENN STATE TIX JOE X2341 
Can you dig this! I am terribly interested in buying a Student ticket for Tennessee. Price is no object, unless of course you want more money than I am willing to pay you. Give Dave Bose a ring at 283-2015. If Dave is busy his personal staff will be happy to help you. Irish V-ball rules!!!!!!!!!!! 
Need Tenn. st. or alum tix$$ please call Dan x1740 
Good afternoon, my friends. I have a small request which I hope can be mutually beneficial to all involved. I desperately need 4 GAs for Tennessee. If you have any at all please call Gina@ 2982. If I am unavailable, please leave a message so I can get back to you. 
Need 2 UT-Notre Dame GA tickets Nov. 9. Call (704) 541-8845. 
Need Tenn GAs Chris X2125 
I am willing to pay some serious bucks for Tennessee GA's. Please call Andy DeBartolo @ 233-9588. 
I NEED 2 TENN GAS-lAURA 277-9158 
Help Cure The Peutis Running Rampant in My Family I ! I 
Sell Us Four Tennessee GA's X3414 
DESPERATELY NEED TENN TIXS CALL MARIA OR CRISTIN X3433 
NEED TENN STUD AND GA TIX JOE X1835 X1836 
Need Tenn GA's or Stud's. Call Chris-2779442 
Need 2 Tenn GAs or stud tixl Please Help! Susan x4276 
2 Tenn ST Tix for sale 271-0702 
I need, I want, and I oovet Tennessee GA's Please, Please, Please, Please call Andy@ 233-9588 
I need 3 TENN GA's !I call X4082 
HELP! Wealthy Alum flying in from 
L.A. to see his beloved Irish one last time. Please don't let him down! Sell him your Tenn. G.A. or Stud ticket. Call Mike P. at X2019 Please! 
•••*$$$$$$$$$$$$$$....... ••HELPII NEED ONE TENNGA** 
•FoR DAD DRIVING 19 HOURS** *FROM BOSTON! WILL PAY TOP* *DOLLAR PLEASE CALL PATTY*••••$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ X2126** 
Help! Need TENN Studs or GAs Call Jim X1883 
NEED 1 TENN GAl CALL MATT x2347 
•••••••LATE NOTICE*•••••• Desparately need any Tennessee stud tix you can sell to me...Big $$$$$ Call Will at 277-9468. .......LATE NOTICE....... 
Need one Tenn Stud. X1926 
FOR SALE: 1 TENN. GA FIELD SECTION BEST OFFER MAn X2318 
I NEED 4 PENN ST TIX Ill call Cathy X4963 
I NEED SEX, SE~. MONEY, SEX, FAME, SEX, BUT MOST OF ALL TENN. TICKETS!!! JERRY X2090 
4 sale 2 tenn.std.tx. x1387 
TN st tic 4sale. x3197 
BIG BUCKS !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Tenn tix needed badly x2990. 
YES ...YES...YES...YES ...YES ...YE 
S.. 
I STILL NEEDTENN TICKETS!!! CALL KEVIN AT 289-7736 
I! I STILL NEED TENN TICKETS I! CALL KEVIN 289-7736 
NEED 6 TENN GA'S JOAN 284-4387 
For sale Tenn Student ticket Richie 277-5569 
Hot Woman needs two TN GA Call Ann x4970 

SEXSEXSEXSEXSEXSEXSEXSEX Two Tennessee tix Call ann x4970 
PERSONAL 

......................................... 
Jay and Anna sitting in a tree..• 

......................................... 
I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
stronger than burt 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
Kiss me where I. P. 
TANNING CERTIFICATES 
You are eligible to win this super prize by volunteering at the SMC Student Phonathon, November 4­14, 1991. Call Jean at 4582 to sign up or for additional details! Free long distance phone calls! Free food! Free fun! 
YoND, 
Come out and listen to OJ Martin Pulido's debut performance at Theodore's Saturday night. It's guaranteed to be one wild ride! 
-MAGIC FINGERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
You got what chu wahnt, now give da peeple de air !Ill Get your skis shined up, grab a stick of juicy fruit... 
--TOM WESTRICK-­--TOM WESTRICK-­--TOM WESTRICK--You weenie in INSBRUCK Angie, Eric, Dave, and BIG J. Rock wish you well in that land of easy "A". May your skiing ever be in those wonderful mounds of Austrian 
mountains.  
--TOM WESTRICK WESTRICK WESTRICK-­ TOM TOM  

Burly men of 11 C-Take off your skirts this weekend Show up and don't sell out 
HAPPY BIRYHDAY BLUE EYES! YOU'RE FINALLY LEGAL. I LOVE YOU. 
Hey "Baywatch" Buddy: 
Here's to Keenan, a Keenan Revue Party which you probably don't remember, and an infatuation with a ·red belr. Now you've gained Grace and a •red jacket." Have a Happy 21st Birthday!!! And remember sit on the floor tonite-you might just fall off that chair. Love, your frosh-year roomie 
Lick my Lando 
AUNT ELLEN­HAPPY 21st! LOVE, QUINNIE 
TO THE 1991-92 OBSERVER STAFF­
THANK YOU FOR A FIRST-RATE REUNION. 
THE STAFF OF 1981-82 
##################### 
PW FOOTBALL IS ON A MISSION 
We've had a great season and now it's time to prove to everyone else how good we really are. 
Let's go out there and play our game and let's win! 
Invite all your friends to oome out to Stephan field on Sunday at 2:00 and watch us show BP who's the best. 
They've said we are cocky. They've said we cheat. They've even taken a game away from us. 
It is time to silence the critics. If we play the way we know we can, they,l see us playing in the stadium. 
##################### 

RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
DAYTONA BEACH from 'ID4 
5 and 7 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADRE ISL 4ND ""nl 1128 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT from 1122 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS $ 
PANAMA CITY BEACH fr~ ., I22 
7 NIGHTS ~ $ 
FORT LAUDERDALe "<'" IJ6 
7 NIGHTS $ 
HILTON HEAD ISUND ff9
lr.m 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS $ 
MUSTANG ISLAND I 128
fro"' 
PORT ARANSAS 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
nth Annual Celebration! 

TOLL FREE INFORMAT•ON &RISIRVATIONI 
1·800·321·5911 

DINNER FOR 2 
FOR $8.99 PlcluaytwoGourmet 
~a. two .,udell Sa*~•. plua row cbal~ al freoch Fr&. or 0a1m R1-. ..tZ 
~ 
expiration date 1Z/1 
Buy any tiH wnd• llft41 
------­
SUNDAE ,_.,.. • -=-t-"'t~ae 
99¢ _ ....... expiration date '1.2/1 
see CLASS/page 11 

....... page 18 SCOREBOARD Friday, NovemberS, 1991 
NHL STANDINGS  NBA STANDINGS  TRANSACTIONS  
WALES CONFERENCE  EASTERN CONFERENCE  BASEBALL  
Patrick  Dlvlalon  Atlantic  Dlvlalon  American  League  
w  L  T  Pts  CF  GA  w  L  Pet.  (lJ  BOSTON REO SOX--Named Frank White  
Washington NY Rangers New Jersey Philadelphia Pittsburgh NY Islanders  1 1 1 1 9 6 5 4  3 6 6 6 6 8  0 0 0 1 3 2  22 22 18 1 3 1 3 10  67 59 62 41 58 53  42 52 43 39 61 61  Orlando Miami Boston New York Philadelphia Washington  3 2 2 2 2 2  2 2 2 2  .750 .667 .500 .500 .500 .500  1/2 1  manager of Winter Haven of the Gulf Coast League. TEXAS RANGERS-Signed John Cangelosi, outfielder, to a minor league contract with Oklahoma City of the American Association. National League  
Adama Divlalon Montreal Hartford Boston Buffalo Quebec  13 6 4 4 3  3 5 7 9 10  1 2 4  27 14 12 9 7  62 43 50 32 44  24 43 56 49 55  New Jersey Central Division Detroit Chicago Indiana Milwaukee  2 2 2 2  2 1 2 2 2  .333 .667 .500 .500 .500  1 1/2 1/2 1/2 1/2  CINCINNATI REDS-Named John McClaren bullpen coach. COLDRAOO AOCKIE~ L..any Bearnarth special assistant to the general manager. MONTREAL EXPOS-Named Ed Cr88Ch,  
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  Atlanta  2  .333  1  east coast scouting supervisor, and Pat  
Norrie Division Chicago St. Louis  w 7 6  L 6 5  T 4 5  Pts 1 8 17  CF 65 50  GA 62 56  Charlotte Cleveland 1 WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldweat Divlaion  3 3  .250 .250  1 1  1/2 1/2  Sullivan, southeast scout. Announced the relocation of the South Atlantic League franchise to Albany, Ga. BASKETBALL  
Minnesota  7  7  1 5  48  52  w  L  Pet.  (lJ  National  Basketball  Asaociation  
Detroit  7  B  1 5  60  52  Houston  3  1  .750  CHICAGO BULLS-Signed Rory Sparrow,  
Toronto  5  1 0  11  44  54  San Antonio  3  .750  guard, to a one-year contract. Placed Craig  
Smythe Dlvlaion Vancouver , Los Angeles Calgary Winnipeg Edmonton  10 8 8 6 6  4 3 6 6 B  2 3 2 4 2  22 19 18 16 14  60 56 64 50 49  44 50 54 57 61  Denver Utah Dallas Minnesota Pacific Division Golden State  2 1 1 0 4  2 3 2 0  .667 .333 .250 .000 1.000  1/2 1 1/2 2 2  Hodges, guard, on the injured list. LOS ANGRES LAKERS-Announced the retirement of Magic Johnson, guard. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Placed Rob Carpenter, wide receiver, on the injured reserve.  
San Jose  1  15  0  2  38  88  LA  Clippers  3  1  .750  1  FOOTBALL  
Wednesday's  Games  Phoenix  2  2  .500  2  National  Football  League  
I I )  Calgary 3, Hartford 2 Montreal 4, N.Y. Rangers 1 Toronto 4, Minnesota 3  Sacramento LA Lakers Seattle  2  2 2 2  .500 .333 .333  2 2 2  1/2 1/2  DALLAS COWBOYS-Claimed Craig Kupp, quarterback, off waivers from the Phoenix Cardinals.  
~  Edmonton 5, N.Y. Islanders 3  Portland  3  .250  3  INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Suspended Eric:  
\ j  Thursday's Games Late Game Not Included  Dickerson. running back, for lour weeks for insubordination and conduct deterimental to  
\  Calgary 4, Boston 4, tie  the team, without pay, and fined him an  
\  Detroit 10, St. Louis 3  additional  week's  pay.  
Philadelphia 5, Buffalo 2  
Chicago 4. Quebec 2  
Vancouver at Los Angeles, (n)  
Friday'a  Gamea  
Philadelphia at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m.  
Montreal at New Jersey, 7:35 p.m.  
Toronto at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35 p.m.  
Detroit at Washington, 7:35 p.m.  
Pittsburgh at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m.  
Edmonton at San Jose, 10:35 p.m.  
Saturday's  Gamea  
New Jersey at Boston, 7:05 p.m.  
Pittsburgh at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m.  
Chicago at Montreal, 8:06 p.m.  
Calgary at Toronto, 8:05 p.m.  
Hartford at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m.  
Edmonton at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m.  
N.Y. Islanders at San Jose, 10:35 p.m.  
EDUCATION  
 
FOR lliE  
REAL WORlD  
Graduate degree programs  
(MA, Ph.D) in International  
Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy-relevant issues.  LOOKIN' FOR SOME  
Area and Functional Fields: 0 lnteramerican Studies  ACTION?  
(U.S.-Latin American  
Relations)  
0 Soviet and East  
European Studies  
0 Middle East Studies  
0 International Relations 0 International Business  WOMEN'S TENNIS  
! I I )  Management 0 International Security and Conflict  vs  
0 Comparative  
Development 0 International Economics  #15 TENNESSEE  
Apply by February 1 for  
assistantships and other  
fmancial aid.  
North• South Center 111111111'1' or ••••• Stu~ris who are interested  Friday, November 8 6:00pm Eck Tennis Pavilion  
in Interamerican issues are  
particularly encouraged to  
apply ror Nath-South Center  
Graduate Assistattships.  
GRADUA'It SCHOOL OF  FREE ADMISSION!!  
INTERNATIONAL S11JDIES  
Admissions, Room I 000  
Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010  
{305) 284-4173  
r  
\  


Friday, November 8,1991 The Observer · page 19 
Flyers skate past 

Knicks pound Magic as Starks pours in 30 
Sabres; Flames, 

NEW YORK (AP)-Reserve forward Grant Long, who cold-shooting Minnesota. winless Timberwolves, who lost John Starks scored a career­scored 22 points, and center The Timberwolves shot 34.6 their third straight game. Bruins tie 4-4 
high 30 points, including eight 
in a two-minute span in the 
second quarter when New York 
took control of the game, as the 
Knicks beat previously un­
beaten Orlando 128-100 Thurs­
day night. 
New York, who opened the 
season with a loss at Orlando 
six days ago, handed the Magic 
its first defeat in four games. 
Golden State is now the lone 
NBA team with a perfect 
record. 
Patrick Ewing had 24 points 
for New York while Xavier 
McDaniel scored 14, all in the 
first half. 
Dennis Scott led Orlando with 
29 points while Terry Catledge 
added 15. 
Starks passed his previous 
career-high of 25 with a dunk 
with 7:51 remaining in the 
game, putting New York ahead 
99-72. However, it was his sec­
ond-quarter performance that 
allowed the Knicks to take con­
trol of the game. 
Starks hit two 3-pointers and 
a layup in a span of 1:53, key­
ing a 12-4 New York burst 
midway through the quarter as 
the Knicks took a 53-35 lead. 
New York held a 65-4 7 lead at 
halftime. 
Heat 111 , Nets 89 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­Willie Burton scored 24 points ·on 9-for-12 shooting and Miami limited New Jersey to 34 
percent shooting. 
The Heat never trailed in 
sending the Nets to their second 
loss in as many nights. A big 
reason was the play of its front 
line as Burton teamed with 
Rony Seikaly with 16 points and 13 rebounds. 
The starting frontcourt com­bined to make 22 of 38 from the field. It also limited the Nets' front line of Chris Morris, Derrick Coleman and Sam Bowie to 37 points on 16-for-45 shooting. 
Bowie led New Jersey with 20 points, while Drazen Petrovic added 16 in the team's home opener. 
Rockets 1 05, Cavaliers 86 
HOUSTON -Sleepy Floyd and Tree Rollins keyed a 28-8 run at the start of the second quarter that lifted Houston Rockets past Cleveland. 
Floyd scored eight of his 22 points during the second-period burst and Rollins added seven ofhis 13. 
It is the most points Rollins has scored since the 1987-88 season and the first time since the 1989-90 season that he has scored in double figures. He also grabbed nine rebounds. 
Larry Nance led Cleveland with 20 points, while Brad Daugherty had 13 points and 10 rebounds. 
The Rockets trailed 25-22 after one quarter, but they pulled away to a 50-33 advan­tage with 2:4 7 left in the half. 
Nuggets 88, Timberwolves 
77 
DENVER -Denver con­tinued its surprising start as Dikembe Mutombo had 14 points and 18 rebounds against 

~--------------------­
Happy Birthday to A California Kid! 
ill.£l~r~ 
NIGHT 
THE 
INS 
percent from the field as the Nuggets won their third straight game after a season-opening loss despite 41.6 percent shooting. 
Mark Macon led the Nuggets with 18 points, while Tony Campbell scored 18 for the 
Denver took its largest lead at 59-43 with a 20-10 burst in the first 9:34 of the second half. Minnesota closed to 65-60 with 
10:08 remaining, but Denver rebuilt the margin to 79-68 with 
5:29 left, and the Wolves never seriously threatened again. 

Happy I9th Birthday 
[{ffi[f@[i) []]mm~~rn$) 
(The Archie who k.nows how to use her tools! 

Love, 
Margie, MeHnda, Steph, 
Christy, Wendy, Liz, 
the guys In 22, Megan, 
Margaret, Natalie, 
Susan 
<@> ,. . 
~THE 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre presents: 
MI
National Players 
America's longest 
running classical 
touring company 
wo 

BYWJLLIAM GIBSON 
Wednesday, November 13 8:10p.m. Thursday, November 14 8:10p.m. Friday, November 15 8:10p.m. Saturday, November 16 8:10p.m. Sunday, November 17 3:10p.m. 
Reserved seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available for Vvednesday, Thursday and Sunday perfor­mances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders cal1239-8128. 
WASHINGTON HALL 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Dan  
Quinn had a goal and an assist  
as the Philadelphia Flyers de­ 
feated the Buffalo Sabres 5-2  
and reached the .500 mark for  
the first time since March 16.  
The Flyers (6-6-1) have won six of their last nine games  . I I  
after starting the season with a  I  
four-game winless streak.  j  
Buffalo has just one win in  
seven decisions (1-6) on the  
road this season.  
Quinn broke a 1-1 tie by  
scoring on the power-play at  
4:34 of the second. The goal  
snapped an 0-for-20  
Philadelphia drought with a  
man advantage. The Flyers  
have the NHL's worst power­ 
play (7-for-79).  
Pelle Eklund scored the  
Flyers' eventual winning goal  
when he made it 3-1 with a  
short-handed goal at 12:04.  
Flames 4, Bruins 4  
BOSTON -Calgary's The­ 
oren Fleury and Boston's Brent  
Ashton scored two goals each  
as the Flames and the Bruins  
packed all their scoring into the  
first two periods en route to a  
4-4 tie.  
Calgary was outshot 16-12 in  
the first period, but came back  
to build a 39-35 advantage in  
shots on goal, including 3-0 in  
the five-minute overtime.  
Fleury tied the score 2-2 with  
his ninth goal late in the first  
period, beating Boston's Andy  
Moog with a quick slap shot  
from the faceoff circle to the  
goalie's right.  
Then, after setting up Gary  
Roberts' 12th goal for a 3-2  
Calgary lead early in the  
second period, Fleury poked in  
a rebound of his own shot on a  
power play at 16:54. Fleury's  
lOth goal of the season put the  
Flames ahead 4-3, but Boston  
came back again to tie the  
score on a goal by Andy  
Brickley.  
Red Wings 1 0, Blues 3  
DETROIT -The Detroit Red  
Wings scored in double figures  
for the first time since 1987  
Thursday night, routing the St.  
Louis Blues 10-3.  
Detroit's last 10-goal game  
came against Chicago on Dec.  
4, 1987, and the Blues hadn't  
given up 10 since Oct. 8, 1984  
in a game against Minnesota.  
Pat Jablonski gave up eight  
goals in 27 minutes, and Curtis  
Joseph gave up the last two.  
Paul Ysebaert, Shawn Burr,  
Nicklas Lidstrom and Jimmy  
Carson each scored two goals  
for the Red Wings. Brett Hull  
had a pair for St. Louis.  
Black hawks 4,  
Nordiques 2  
CHICAGO -Steve Larmer  
helped to make goaltender Ed  
Belfour's home debut success­ 
ful, scoring twice in a 13-sec­ 
ond span as the Chicago  
Blackhawks dealt the Quebec  
Nordiques their sixth straight  
road loss, 4-2.  
The Blackhawks, just 3-4-3 in  
their last 10 games, jumped  
past St. Louis into first place in  
the NHL's Norris Division with  
the Blues losing to Detroit 10-3.  
Playing in his 737th consecu­ 
tive game, Larmer knocked in  
his own rebound at 8:52 of the  
first period with the  
Blackhawks on a power play.  
Thirteen seconds later, follow­ 
ing the ensuing faceoff, Larmer  
wristed in a 25-footer from the  
deep slot.  
Belfour, playing in only his  
second game since coming to  
terms with the Blackhawks on  
Oct. 28, was firmly tested  
throughout and made several  
brilliant saves.  
I  
I  
I  


------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 20 The Observer Friday, November 8,1991 
\ 
) I 
l. 
I 
I ,. \ 
l 
•. 
r 
I \ 
l 
j, 
!. 
:; 
r 
j 
r 
\ I 
; 
t­
! 
I l
; 
f 
I 
I 
(,,. 
t 
f 
J 
Reports have Rocket L.A.-bound 
Toronto newspaper says Ismail headed for Raiders 
TORONTO (AP) -Rocket Ismail's days with the CFL's Toronto Argonauts are num­bered and he could be playing for the Los Angeles Raiders be­fore the end of the NFL season, football analyst Fred Edelstein says. 
"Every piece of information I have indicates that the length of Rocket's career with the Toronto Argonauts will be ex­actly one season," the Toronto Globe and Mail quoted Edelstein as saying in a tele­phone interview Wednesday. 
"He's on his way to the Los Angeles Raiders. I wouldn't be surprised, in fact, if the Raiders have him in a uniform by next month," added Edelstein, who has a weekly program on ESPN and is the author of Edelstein Pro Football Letter. 
Ismail denied the report to­day. 
"No one closely or remotely related to me would say such a thing," he said while making a promotional appearance at the launching of a new soft drink. "They're just unfounded ru­mors and I fully intend on at­tending the start of Argo train­ing camp in June." 
Ismail, one of the outstanding college players last season with Notre Dame, signed a four-year, $18 million deal with the Argonauts on the eve of the NFL draft this year. 

He was the consensus No. 1 pick heading into the draft, but after signing with Toronto, he didn't go until a later round when the Raiders selected him. 
The Globe and Mail reports that CFL commissioner Donald Crump was told by Sue Waks, chief financial officer for Argos owner Bruce McNall, that her boss was considering sending Ismail to the Raiders. 
"She said, 'Don't think Bruce won't send Rocket over to Al,' " Crump is quoted as saying. "She meant AI, as in AI Davis (owner of the Raiders)." 
Waks, who also is the Argos representative on the league's board of governors, denies 
making the statement to Crump. 
Reached Wednesday at Los Angeles, she said Ismail has enjoyed his rookie season with the Argos and she would be ..shocked" if he were to go to the Raiders after the CFL sea­son. 
"But what you must under­stand is that the NFL and the CFL are leagues of denial," Edelstein said...They deny ev­erything. It's just a mode of op­eration for them. 
"If I were operating the Argos, or if I were the Rocket, I'd deny the whole thing, too. But you can be sure it's happening. The Rocket will end up with about $6 million from McNall and will then accept a deal for a lot less from Davis." 
The Argonauts finished first in the CFL's East Division this season with a 13-5 record. They will be host to either the Winnipeg Blue Bombers or Ottawa Rough Riders in the di" visional final Nov. 17, with the winner of that game advancing to the Grey Cup Nov. 24 at Winnipeg. 
Meet author 
Thomas Stritch 
-the toast of Tennessee, the pride of N.D.­as he signs copies of his new book 
My Notre Dame 
Memories and Reflections of Sixty Years 

Seminoles take on Gamecocks; Huskies face Pac-1 0 rival USC 
(AP)-Several key matchups highlight this weekend's college football action. 
Florida State {9-0) returns home after games in a Louisiana rainstorm and the cold of Louisville. 
"I'm glad to be playing in Florida the rest of the season, that's for sure,.. Seminoles coach Bobby Bowden said. 
South Carolina (3-3-2) doesn't look like a candidate for an upset. 
"Everybody dreams of that," Gamecocks coach Sparky Woods said. "I think we better play some defense and hope we can keep them from sc~ring too many points." 
Washington (8-0) plays a Southern California team that is struggling at 3-5. Huskies coach Don James says he sympathizes with Trojans coach Larry Smith. 
"We know how Larry's suffering, we've been there," James said. "You get a lot of young guys, some key injuries, a bad call here and there." 
While Washington is trying for a national championship, Southern Cal still has hopes of a .500 season. 
"If we finished 6-5, do you realize what kind of finish that would be? That would be fantastic," Smith said. Darren Studstill, the sophomore quarterback for West Virginia (6"3), will be going home to South Florida when the Mountaineers play Miami (7 "0). 
"I always dreamed of play" ing in the Orange Bowl," Studstill said. "I am a Miami Hurricane fan. I'm glad I got away and got to be Darren Studstill by himself, not fol" lowing the pack down to Miami or Florida State." 
Northwestern coach Francis Peay wants his team to play like Wildcats against Michigan {7-1). 
"I always tell the kids if you scratch and claw long and hard enough, you'll eventually draw blood," Peay said. 
Northwestern (3-5) upset Michigan State 16-13 last week and is starting to get some attention. 
"The mail and the con­gratulatory phone calls start to pick up and that's certainly not annoying," Peay said. "But I think the press tries to make an issue out of it sometimes and it's really not." 


Coming Soon 

• Discounted Bestscllers • Special Orders • • Telephone Orders • Free Gift Wrapping • • Book Mailing Service • Gift Certificates • • Bonus Book Club • 
,--------------,I 
Exchange this coupon for I 
II  25% OFF  II  
1  your next purchase at your  I  
1  Little Professor Book Center  1  
I  in South Bend  I  
I  I  
1  Offer good through November 30,1991  1  
IL  •offer not valid on newspapers, magazines, __ ~cial ~e~o~i~othcr~~nts. __  I _j  
Ironwood Plaza North  (near the new Martin's)  
Highway 23 at Ironwood  
South Bend, IN 46637  
Telephone: (219) 277-4488  
Mon.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00  
Sunday: 10:00-5:00  
s 

• 

BOOKCENtER 
We help you find books you'll love. 
[ 

Friday, November 8,1991 The Observer 
page 21 

Magic announces retirement after tests reveal presence of AIDS virus 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) -In his most difficult moment, as friends and fans alike cried, Magic Johnson still had a smile, that familiar smile. "It can happen to anybody -even me, Magic Johnson," he said as a stunned sports world watched. 
Earvin "Magic" Johnson, of all people, has the AIDS virus. One of the greatest players ever, a five-time NBA champion and a three-time MVP, is retiring immediately from basketball. 

"This is one of those things you think can't happen to you, but it can," Johnson said, mak­ing the announcement himself Thursday at a news conference televised nationally and at­tended by old teammates, doc­tors and NBA commissioner David Stern. "Sometimes you're a little naive about it and think it can never happen to you. You think it can happen to only other people. But it has hap­pened and I'm going to deal with it, and life goes on." 
In 12 sparkling seasons, Johnson and his trademark smile helped turn a struggling pionship as a sophomore and became the No. 1 pick in the pro draft. Along with Larry Bird, he helped turn the league into a worldwide entertain­ment, marketing and sports success. 
The average salary was $171,000 in 1980. It was more than $1 million going into this season. 
"No one has contributed more to the success of the NBA than Earvin 'Magic' Johnson, and I know his fans around the world, myself included, will miss the thrill of watching him compete," Stern said. "We ex­pect Earvin to continue to play an important role in the NBA, and the entire NBA family pledges its full support to him in his fight against this disease." 
At 6-foot-9, Johnson revolu­tionized the point-guard posi­tion. He leaves the game with a league-record 9,921 assists, having broken Oscar Robertson's career standard last season. 

Rivals, fans in shock at Magic's troubles 


ND/SMC FAVORITE NIGHT SPOT 
And...of course...the best 
live music in town ONE NIGHl ONLY

SATURDAY, NOV. 9 
ND FAVORITE BAND 
10:00pm "FREDDY JONES" 

NBA into the biggest sports 
success story of the 1980s. With 
him at the point, Lakers games 
were "Showtime." 
On Wednesday, Johnson got the news that the HIV virus had turned up in routine tests for a life insurance policy. He said his wife of two months tested negative. 
Both Johnson and the Lakers' physician, Dr. Michael Mellman, said he doesn't have AIDS, only the virus that leads to it. "I feel really good," Johnson said. "I feel great." 
Neither he nor his doctors said how or when he contracted the virus, usually transmitted through sex or intravenous drug use. "I don't believe we know at this point, specifically," Mellman said. 
Johnson said it shows that gays aren't the only people who are infected and repeatedly stressed that "safe sex is the way to go." 
The NBA was struggling to survive when in 1979, when Johnson left Michigan State after winning the NCAA cham-

INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) ­For the Los Angeles Lakers, the sadness of learning Magic Johnson had tested positive for the AIDS virus was eased only by the strength displayed by the man who was the ultimate team player. 
Johnson's retirement Thurs­day, one day after learning he had the deadly virus, left current and former teammates shocked. The void Johnson's re­tirement leaves on the Lakers, who won five NBA champi­onships with him on the floor, was all but forgotten. 
"What it does to our team is the last of our concerns," coach Mike Dunleavy said. "You saw how strong he was (at the news conference).... He just wants the team to be as strong as he is." 
"Like everybody else, I'm completely blown away by ev­erything that has taken place," said Larry Drew, who played a backup role to Johnson last season. "But basketball is sec­ondary now. We're talking about his health. This is just something that reaches down and pulls your guts out." 
Former Lakers center 
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, who said 
he cried when he learned the 
news, said: "I'm happy to see he 
has a positive outlook. When I 
saw him, he tried to be as 
positive as he could. He smiled 
like he always does. 
"I just told him I'd be there for him, to offer him friend­ship." 
Emotion was evident from the 
floor of Congress to the world of 
entertainment to those who 
played and coached with and 
against him to the person on 
the street -or more impor­
tantly, to the youngster in the 
playground. 
"It's really a tragedy. I mean, the guy has not only been such a great player, but he's been such a great ambassador for the game and everything else," said Boston Ce ltics forward Kevin McHale, Johnson's oppo­nent for two of his five NBA championships. "My heart goes out to him. I think all you can do now is just pray that he handles everything in the best way that he can." 
Johnson indicated he will be­come a spokesman in the fight for awareness about the virus, which can lead to AIDS. 

"All my love and support is with him," actress Elizabeth Taylor said from London, where she is making two personal visits on behalf of the AIDS Crisis Trust. "God will help him and let us all pray to God that there will be a cure for him and everyone else soon." 
Still, those affected most were the people who watched Johnson help the NBA become one of the world's most popular forms of entertainment. 
"That's incredible. I can't be­lieve that," Portland Trail Blazers guard Clyde Drexler said. "That's a shocker, some­body that great. He's helped make the league what it is. My heart goes out to him and his family." 
"Wow. This is totally sad," said Seattle SuperSonics coach 
K.C. Jones, a former coach of the Boston Celtics. "This per­son, Magic Johnson, has given me so much, and also the league and the world. 
"I just hope things work out for him. He's what the league is all about. He came in with Larry Bird and just took the league to another level." 
LAUNCH YOUR CAREER WITH A $30,000 SCHOLARSHIP. 
Two-year NROTC scholarships offer tuition and other financial assistance worth as much as $30,000 to qualified college sophomores. 
The Navy pays for tuition, textbooks, instructional fees and gives you an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. 
Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you'll become an important part of the Navy adventure as a Navy officer. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging and rewarding program. 
Contact Dan Cochran, Call 239-6061 

NAVY ROTC 
You and the Navy. 
Full Speed Ahead. 



Leyland rejects long-term contract offer from Pirates 




Friday, November 8,1 991 

PITTSBURGH (AP) -The Pittsburgh Pirates were pre­pared to offer Manager Jim Leyland a long-term contract that could have made him one of the highest-paid managers in baseball, but Leyland wasn't interested, according to a published report. 
Before the offer could be made in an Oct. 24 meeting with Chairman of the Board Doug Danforth, Leyland said he was not interested in an extension or renegotiation because of the instability of small-market franchises, The Pittsburgh Press reported today. 
.., would not have accepted an extension if it had been of­fered, but I want to make clear that I'm totally happy in Pittsburgh and that I want to remain In Pittsburgh," Leyland said. 
Danforth declined to com­ment on Leyland's contract situation, saying through a team spokesman that Leyland is signed through 1993 and that no other team will have permission to talk to him about employment in that time. 
Leyland had said he believed his record in his first six years as Pirates manager has earned him the right to manage a competitive club. 
His disinterest in committing to the organi­zation beyond 1993 appar­ently indicates his future in Pittsburgh will pivot on the club's willingness to contract key elements of the two-time defending National League East champions or replace them with players or similar ability. 



,. 
(' 
f
( 
! 
Friday, November 8,1991 The Observer page 23 
Women's hoops hosts Athletes in Action tonight 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team plays host to Athletes in Action tonight in an exhibition contest immediately following the football pep rally. 
The Athletes in Action squad is led by 1990 Naismith Player of the Year Jennifer Azzi, a 5-9 guard from Stanford who was a two-time All-American while with the Cardinal and a mem­ber of the 1991 Pan American squad. 
The Irish come into tonight's exhibition banged up. Junior guard Coquese Washington, a preseason first-team All-MCC choice, is questionable due to a knee injury, and senior Deb Fitzgerald will be out of action for four to six weeks with a bulging disk in her lower back. 
ByJONATHANJENSEN 
Sports Writer 
Pro football will be the first sport which will see experimen­tation in pay-per-view televi­sion, President of NBC Sports Dick Ebersol revealed to an au­dience at the Notre Dame Law School last night. 
Ebersol, who is also the co­founder and current producer of NBC's Saturday Night Live, said that within the next two­and-a-half years viewers will be able to purchase a ticket for about $150 which will entitle them to see all of their team's games on television, in addition to the three network games ev­ery Sunday. 
"That will be a good experi­ment for them," said the witty but impressive Ebersol, "be­cause I think they will find out that, lo and behold, there isn't 

NBC Sports chief speaks on pay-per-view 
SPORlS BRIEFS 
•Sponsbrlefs 
are accepted In writing, Sunday through Thursday until 5:00 p.m.,at The Observer on the 3rd floor of LaFortune, for next day printing. Please write your brief, the days it is to be run, and your name and number. 

•Attention 
hockey players and ice skaters: The Notre Dame ice rink is available for students and dorms to rent. You can rent the ice for practices, dorm events, and even games. Cost for ND!SMC faculty and staff is just $50 per hour. Call the ice rink at 239-5227 for more information. 

•Student 
basketball split ticket packages are still available at the J.A.C.C. ticket office. Catch seven games for only $30. For more information, call 239-7356. 

•ND/SMC 
Sailing members: Please remember to come at your assigned time to work at the concession stand in front of Crowley. If you have not signed up to work, please call Moira at 284-5344. We need your help. Also, it is mandatory for all members to come help put the boats away on Sunday. Meet at the boathouse at 1:00. We will have lunch for everyone who 


that much income from some­
thing like that." 
The NFL is waiting to see how successful pay-per-view is with the Summer Olympics on NBC in 1992, as they will be offering viewers to see the games live and in their entirety before taped, edited versions come on during prime time. 
Ebersol also offered his views on the status of other sports in the pay-per-view market, but assured that the World Series, Super Bowl, and NBA Finals will stay on free TV until at least the end of the century. 
After football, baseball and basketball do not have an im­mediate future in pay-per-view, since their season is longer and the regular-season games are far less meaningful. 
One factor that has helped to ensure that sports will continue to flourish on free TV has been CBS' monumental losses on their contract to broadcast major-league baseball, for which they paid $1.1 billion to own. To this point, they have lost $500 million on the cover­age, and they will lose more with other high-priced bids on 
Tennis 
continued from page 28 
fort to get used to their part­ners. This will be an opportu­nity for us, a step that we're working towards." 
The Irish have a chance at upsetting the 15th-ranked Volunteers, but will have to play strong tennis all the way down the lineup. 
the 1994 Winter Olympics and the NFL. 
CBS' failure has given the other networks reasons to pay less for the contracts, citing how their ridiculous offers have translated into big losses. This will hopefully keep TV free, as the only factor that could make all sports pay-per-view is a lack of network money and an in­ability for advertisers to pay the networks enough. 
In addition to the pay-per­view debate, Ebersol also talked at length about the future of network television. "You're going to see one major American network, or two, by the end of this decade go out of business because advertisers don't support broadcast televi­sion the way they used to," noted Ebersol. 
He cited NBC's top-rated show Cheers, and the fact that no one knows how long it will run because of dwindling com­mercial support. The advertis­ers are paying less and less to the networks because of the emergence of the cable stations. 
Also brought up was NBC's four-year deal with Notre Dame 
Tennessee has a solid team, and its number-one singles player, Mandy Wilson, made it to the semifinals at the All­American tournament in Los Angeles and won the first sin­gles flight at the Brown Invitational, defeating Schwab in the semis and Harris in the finals. 
At Brown, the Irish suffered a few setbacks at the hands of Tennessee players, so they will be looking to make the most of this second chance at 
to broadcast all of their home 
games. The deal came about as 
a result of ND's desire to get 
their games out to fans and 
alumni across the country, and 
the deal has made that possible. 
How has the deal been for 
NBC? "We're more than 
happy-we're ecstatic," said 
Ebersol. "We've made money 
this first year... this is the only 
broadcast television package 
that will make money." 
Ebersol shared a story that symbolizes Notre Dame foot­ball's role in sports on televi­sion. He said that in 1967, when he first got into sports broadcasting, a man told him that to be successful in this business, you have to own the rights to the NFL, the Summer Olympics and Notre Dame football. 
Ebersol asked him what he meant, since the exclusive rights to one college's football games were not available, much less Notre Dame's. 
The man said, "Yeah, but you can dream." 

This one-time dream has be­come a reality, thanks to the resourcefulness of Dick Ebersol. 
Tennessee. 

Said Doran, "I think a lot of people on our team want an­other chance at Tennessee. Everyone is really psyched for this match." 
If revenge isn't enough moti­vation, the Irish can look to the polls to spur them on. 
"This will be a good opportu­nity for us," noted Vitale. "We feel kind of slighted that we weren't ranked in the fall. This is a chance to prove that we belong there." 
CELEBRATE NOTRE DAME VS. TENNESSEE 1991 
ParisiS 
''THE ITALIAN RESTORANTE'' SPECIAL WEEKEND MENU FEATURES VEAL, CHICKEN, PRIME RIB, 
~· 
PASTA NERA, LINGUINI, 

9-·1) Parisi's
FE"ITUCCINE ALFREDO AND DEUCIOUS PASTAS. 

JUST A FEW MINUTES WALK FROM THE STADIUM I4I2 SOUTH BEND AVE., SOUTH BEND, IN 
(2I9)232•4Z44 ,, OPEN 4·11, SUNDAY 4-9 CLOSED MONDAY 
page 24 The Observer Friday, November 8,1991 
Ratigan steps into starting role 
Junior linebacker fills void left by injuries, loss of Goheen 
By RICH KURZ 
Associate Sports Editor 
Waiting for your turn to play is a Notre Dame football tradi­tion. So is making the most of that opportunity when it comes. 
Linebacker Brian Ratigan got one of those chances last week against the Naval Academy. After a confusing jumble of po­sition switches to shore up the defense and the loss of regular backup Justin Goheen (to mo­nonucleosis), Ratigan emerged from his role as understudy to Demetrius DuBose to move to the other inside linebacker spot and played a key role in last Saturday's win over the Mid­shipmen. 
Playing primarily in the first half, the junior from Council Bluffs, Iowa, made six tackles to help halt the Navy rushing attack. 
"The defensive line took out a lot of blocks," said Ratigan. "Pete (Bereich) and I must have had 20 tackles between us." 
Ratigan also plays on special teams, covering kickoffs and 


.} 
punts. 
"He does a really good job," said special-teams coach Jay Hayes. "He goes and gets the job done. He's got a great atti­tude." 
Playing behind an All­American like DuBose means that chances to play are spo­radic, but you must be pre­pared to play at all times. 
''I'm only one player away," Ratigan said. "I have to be comfortable when I do get the chance to play." 
Linebacking runs in his blood. His older brother, Larry, is a fifth-year senior at Iowa 
State, starting at outside linebacker for the Cyclones. During Brian's sophomore year in high school, the brothers were starters for their high school team, and the two are still close. 

'I 
"'We talk all the time," said Ratigan. "We're even built the same." 
Brian credits his older brother with helping to develop his athletic skills. 
"'When we were little, he al­ways dragged me along" to play games with the older kids, Ratigan said. 
His athletic pursuits aren't limited to the gridiron, however. He plays basketball for Dillon in the winter, calling on skills that got him selected to the Iowa all­state team in his senior year, during which his team won the state title. 
"'I like to play basketball and baseball, but football's still first," he said. 
His high-school resume was filled out with some other ex­tracurricular activities as well. He found time to be the presi­dent of his National Honor Society, as well as his class president all four years of high school. 
A marketing major, Ratigan hopes to use his business tal­ents to own his own business in the future. 
"I'm heading over to Europe this summer to try international marketing and see how I like it. I need some more experience," Ratigan said. 
So when he gets his chance in business, don't be surprised to see him fully take advantage of it. 

Women's IH football playoffs resume Sunday 
key games, as proven in their 12-6 upset victory over Walsh. 
Lewis vs. Pasquerllla East 
In the two teams' final regu­lar season game, Pasquerilla East pulled out a 22-14 victory over Lewis, and Lewis is look­ing forward to the chance to redeem themselves from the loss. 
Lewis is the eighth seed in the tournament, but that factor has yet to hold any significance. Lewis ended Howard's season last week, and the Chickens have a reputation of being extremely hard to beat in the postseason. 
"It is ironic that we are play­ing P.E.," said Lewis coach Mike Morelli said. "They almost knocked us out of the tourna­ment with the win. We are ex­cited to try and stop them Sunday." 
Pasquerilla East, meanwhile, looks to maintain its dominance over Lewis. However, the loss of two defensive stalwarts, sophomore Nina DeLorenzo and junior Aimee Nocero, could prove costly to P.E. 
Vols 
continued from page 28 

composed, with only two se­niors (left end Devon McDonald and left tackle Troy Ridgely), four juniors, three sophomores and three freshman on the depth charts. 
But setting potential great­ness aside, the Volunteers mul­tiple-set offense-ranked ninth in the NCAA-will likely pose a stiff challenge to the maturing Notre Dame defenders. 
Defensive back John Covington, who suffered a sprained knee against Navy, is probable for the Tennessee game, as are Greg Davis and Justin Hall. 
Bryant Young is doubtful for tomorrow's contest, and Justin Goheen is out for the season with mononucleosis. 
The proposed pay-per-view deal for Notre Dame's Nov. 16 game at Penn State has fallen through. 
"For a variety of reasons which I can't go into, ABC Sports decided not to go through with this," ABC spokesman Mark Mandel said yesterday in New York. 
Notre Dame sports informa­tion director John Heisler said ABC may have not had enough time to make the arrangements for the Nov. 16 game. 
"They just didn't feel enough things were in place to make that be the case," he said. 
The game, which was to have 
Hope you didn't end 
Happy Birthday Denise McDonald! 
LOve, Jenny,Julie, and Quinn 

POWER. • • LUST .. • 

Non•mber I U-19 8: I 0 p.m. \Vu,.h..in~ton llall Notn• llnmt" lJnin·r·...it~· Students $B.OO ~un-Studt,nt .. S I O.HO l'urrhast· Tid...·t• at 1.:.1-"ortuno· n.., t If 1;,.,. 
been viewed on the Showtime cable network for $9.95, will now be televised regionally to about half the nation as the second half of an ABC college football doubleheader, with kickoff at 3:30p.m. EST. 
The pay-per-view deal would 
have provided a viewing option 
for the 50 percent of the coun­
try which lives within a Big Ten 
or Pac-1 0 broadcast region. 
With or without the pay-per­view deal, viewers in Big Ten and Pac-10 regions would not have been able to see the game on free television in any cir­cumstances. 
Forty percent of the pay-per­view revenues were to go to lo­cal cable operators, while Showtime would have received ten percent and up to 40 per­cent was to be shared among Notre Dame, Penn State, ABC and the CFA. 
Mandel said neither school nor the CFA, all of whom sup­ported the project, had any connection with the deal's col­lapse. He added that the failure does not close the door on fu­ture pay-per-view TV sports deals. 
"It's hard to speculate what we'll do in the future," he said. 
ABC continued to express some reservations, even after CFA officials said the project would be completed. Mandel said Wednesday that ABC Sports must resolve "some in­ternal things" before complet­ing the deal. He declined to dis­cuss details. The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 


: l \ 
I I ' 
I 
X 
v
,I 
1: 
f 

By ELAINE DEBASSIGE Sports Writer 
On Sunday, the finalists for the interhall football rmal will be decided. Pasquerilla West will head up against Breen­Phillips, and Lewis will square off against Pasquerilla East. The games will be held at Stepan Field, but will move to Loftus if the weather is severe. 
Pasquerllla West vs. Breen-Phllllps 
Pasquerilla West will carry its second seed to the field to try and top the Blitz this Sunday. 
The Plaid Wave is the highest seed left in the tournament, pulling off an impressive win over Off-Campus last weekend to put them in contention for the championship. Their of­fense has been explosive all season and hope to remain as hot as they have been. 
Neither team played each other in the regular season, and this could be a factor. 
Blitz coach Jim Joyce said that it was more difficult to prepare for P. W. since they were in the other league. However, Breen-Phillips' de­fense has been a factor in all its games. The Blitz are tough in 
Great Tastes Begin Here... 

2041 Cassopolis 
Elkhart, IN 
262-1500 
121 S. Niles South Bend, IN 234-9000 
120 N. Mam 'ftoc:.~&etW'$ Mishawaka. IN 
Reeta•rant 255-7737 
Reservations Appreciated 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, November 8,1991 The Observer page 25 

collegiate player in the country, gets an automatic berth into the Nationals, as does the top-ranked doubles team of DiLucia and Coleman. 
Bayliss hopes that someone steps forward at this weekend's tournament and asserts himself as a solid number-two singles player behind DiLucia. 
"What I'm looking for is someone to step out of the pack and become a dominant player for us," he said. "It doesn't matter who, but we need to establish someone that's a go-to guy behind David." 
The Observer/John Rock 
Men's tennis at Rolex tourney 
Special to the Ob•erver 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team travels to Madison, Wis. this weekend for the Rolex Midwest Indoor Championships in its final competition of the fall season. 
Coach Bob Bayliss takes a full allotment of six players to the tournament: Chuck Coleman, Will Forsyth, Andy Zurcher, Mark Schmidt, Ron Rosas and Tommy North. 
Dave DiLucia will skip the tournament, the qualifier for the National Indoor Cham­pionships in February. DiLucia, the third-ranked 

Junior Chuck Coleman leads the men's tennis team into action this weekend at the Rolex Indoor Championships in Madison, Wis. 
It's Alumni, Cavanaugh for IH soccer title 
ByJIMVOGL Sports Writer 
Alumni and Cavanaugh will meet for the interhall soccer championships Sunday at 1 
p.m. on Stepan Field. 
On Wednesday, third-seeded Alumni beat an intimidating Stanford squad, 3-1, in what Alumni captain Eric Horvath called "a great team effort." 
"At the beginning of the game we were kind of worried," re­called Horvath. "I think Stanford was only scored upon once the whole season, and they had just beaten El Cartel 7-0. But after the game got going we built our confidence." 
"We were especially pleased with the bench, which was pa­tient and really gave us help. A lot of fans showed up and pumped us up. That really got us going," he added. 
The top-seeded Crusaders prevailed for a controversial 2­1 win against rival Zahm, fol­lowing a ten minute sudden death overtime, a five-player shootout, and a sudden death shootout, as freshman Matt Mueller finally booted in the winning goal. 
In a shootout, each team se­lects five players to attempt penalty shots. "Mter we missed the first shot," said Cavanaugh's captain Garr Schwartz, "we were on an emotional train ride. They missed their fourth shot and gave us new life." 
"I just happened to be in the right place at the right time," said Mueller. "I was not in the shoot-out because during the year I showed little offensive 
prowess. If it wasn't for the five 
guys who kept it alive before 
me, I would never have had the 
opportunity to win it." 
"The goalkeepers hardly had 
a chance at all in the 
shootouts," said Schwartz. 
While the one-on-one shootouts 
are already almost sure shots, 
the goalies in this contest had 
to battle darkness as well. 
"It was almost impossible to 
see the ball ofT people's foot. It 
was like a dead guess," said 
Crusaders' freshman goal­
keeper Chris Fischer. 
Late in the second-half, 
Fischer and Cavanaugh were 
victimized by the darkness for a 
controversial Zahm goal, the 
first goal scored by a 
Cavanaugh opponent all year. 
"It was getting dark and it 
was hard to see from where the 
ref was," explained Schwartz. 
"The shot went over the post 
and through the corner of the 
goal. When it went through a 
hole in the back of the net, it 
gave the illusion that it was a 
legitimate goal." 
Fischer is a portrait of Cavanaugh soccer-young de­fensive talent. They had a dom­inating season despite their lack of experience on a college level, yet they are still able to maintain humility. 
"It was a surprising season," 
admitted Fischer. "There were .a lot of questions at the begin­ning of the year as to how we 
would do, considering we were 
almost all freshmen and 
Wish Tim Brown a Happy 21st Birthday on Nov. 10. We know the last year of waiting had to be the hardest. 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Cano 

The University of Notre Dame's award-winning series high­lights the educational system in today's society. Watch on local public television, WNIT-TV Channel 34, and on Heritage Cablevision's VISN Channel31. 

Educational Experiments 
A look at several recent attempts to reform and improve the learning process. 
WNIT Channel34-November 16,
TODAY'S-' 
8:00 p.m.; November 17, 11:30 a.m. Heritage Cable Channel31-December 10,
LIFECHOICES :
2:30 p.m.; December 13, 6:00 a.m. 
Challenges For Our Times 
------------I 
"Today's Life Choices" presents a new four-part series of programs which examines the educational issues facing our country today-school reform, individual leaming styles, attempts to improve the learning process, theories on multiple intelligences, morals and values in educa­tion and what makes a teacher effective. 
The Educational Wilderness 
An attempt to sort through the many compet­ing voices in the movement for school refonn. 
WNIT Channel34-November 9, 8:00p.m.; November 10, 11:30 a.m. Heritage Cable Channel31-December 3, 
2:30 p.m.; December 6, 6:00 a.m. 
Morals and Values 
in Education 
Where do kids develop their individual systems of morals and values? How do schools fit into that development? 
WNIT Channel 34-November 23, 
8:00 p.m.; November 24, 11:30 a.m. Heritage Cable Channel31-December 17, 2:30p.m.; December 20, 6:00a.m. 
1The Art of Teaching 
An examination ofwhat makes a teacher 
effective in today's difficult schoolroom 
environment. 
WNIT Channel 34-November 30, 
8:00 p.m.; December 1, 11:30 a.m. Heritage Cable Channel 31-December 24, 
2:30 p.m.; December 27, 6:00 a.m. 
sophomores. We got a lot of breaks and we've played hard." 
In describing his role as goalkeeper for a team that al­lowed only two controversial goals all season, Fischer re­flected this sense of humility. "We have a great defensive team. I'm just there to clean up whatever rolls back there." 
While beating Zahm was a major achievement for Cavanaugh, Schwartz was not entirely pleased with the team's overall performance. 
"At times we didn't play well at all," he said. "We can't have that type of sporadic perfor­mance against Alumni and ex­pect to win." 
Hockey team hosts 1Oth­ranked Wildcats 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame hockey team (1-1) will attempt once again to get its home season started tonight against tenth-ranked New Hamp­shire. 
Last weekend. a power outage with 13 minutes remaining in the second period caused a cancel1ation of the ND-Wisconsin~Eau Claire opener. The teams were tied at one when the blackout occurred and the 
, game was declared a no contest which will not be resumed or rescheduled. New Hampshire is coming into the games off of three straight victories. Vermont fell 3-1 in the season opener and Air Force lost two games 5-3, 9·4 to the . streaking Wildcats. Wildcats to watch will be sophomore goaltender Jeff Levy and senior center Joe Flanagan. 


DAYTOIIA BEACH .._'IN 
s~ 7NIGHT5 
SOUTH PADtE ISI.MD .._'fft 
SAND 1 NIGHTS 
STWIIOAT -'f21
2. 5 ANO 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY· BEACH ,_lf22 
1 NIGHTS 
FOIT LAUDERDALE -lfJ6 
7NICHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND .._IffI 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
IIUSTAIIG ISLAND I ......If28 POIT ARANSAS .,
5 AND 7 NIGHT5 
QJ
IUIIAnnval ~ ce..blatlonl ••~ 
TOll FREE IIFOIIIATION I IESEIYATIOJIS 
1·800·!21·5911 

~-­

The Observer Friday, November 8,1991 
page 26 
Men's IH football reaches semis 
Top seeded Carroll faces Zahm; Flanner takes on Keenan 


( 
!,
\I 
: 
\ 

By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
The semifinals of the men's interhall football playoffs takes place Sunday at Stepan field with four teams looking to ad­vance to the championship. 
In the first of the two matchups, Rockne division champion Carroll faces a de­termined Zahm team fresh ofT of a 14-6 victory over Fisher in the playoffs' opening round. 
By beating Fisher, Zahm ac­complished a feat which eluded Carroll during the preseason. The Vermin tied the Green Wave in their regular season meeting, sharing the Rockne di­vision title. 
Carroll had the opportunity to scout Zahm in their first-round game, and were impressed with what they saw. 
"They looked pretty good-they are a tough team," said Carroll captain Tom Sullivan. "They have a really tough defense." 
To counter the strong Zahm defense, Sullivan feels his team needs to pass more than in the past. 
"We are going to try and take on their defensive backs," said Sullivan. "We feel we can be successful in the air." 
Zahm will look to continue what has brought them success in the past: the running of tail­back Matt Seng, and the pass­ing of standout quarterback Chris Hammond. Both players shined in last week's victory over Fisher. 
The game marks the first time in Carroll history that the Vermin have been in the semifi­nals, and the players are ex­cited about the opportunity to play for the championship in Notre Dame Stadium. 
"We are all pretty excited be­ing one game away from the stadium," said Sullivan. "It would be a great way to top off my senior year." 
Two division champions square off in the second semifi­nal matchup. Parseghian titlist Flanner, 8-0 victors over OfT­Campus last Sunday, take on Leahy Division winner Keenan 
The week off gave Keenan the opportunity to view the high­powered Flanner offense and it has them worried. 
..We are all worried about them offensively," said Keenan quarterback Matt Davis. "They looked a lot better than they did in the beginning of the year." 


Offensively, Keenan doesn't plan on changing any of the strategies which have been suc­cessful for them throughout the year. 
"They run a lot of different defensive fronts," said Davis, "but we still plan to run right at them and hope that we can sustain our blocks." 
Flanner will continue to use the skills of quarterback Clarke Warren and an explosive group of receivers, led by Mike Thompson and Scott McCarthy. 
"We will be looking to our passing game," said Warren. "We feel like we can challenge their defensive backs." 
The Flanner defense is look­ing for Keenan to utilize the 
The Observer/John Rock 
mobility of Davis and running 

Flanner tailback Eric Delau finds some daylight during the Gamecock's 
back Dave Dettore and run the 

8-0 playoff victory over Off-Campus last Sunday. 
option. 


COURSES ADDED 
HIST 680 01 N4030. Technology in History; 3 cr.hrs.; MWF 10:10 • 11:00; Permission Required HIST 670 01 N4033 • The Contours of American Religious History; 3 cr. hrs.; T 02:45 -05:15 
MBA 667 01 14034-Escalating Commitment & Policy Decision Making; 3 cr. hrs; TH 02:45 • 04:00; Permission Required; cross-listed with MGT 487·01 
PHIL 604 01 N4035 ·Directed Readings; var. cr. hrs. ROIT 106 02 14031 • Beginning Italian II· Architect; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 11:15 • 12:05; Pre·req. ROIT 105 & ARCH majors only ROSP 599 01 14032 • Thesis Direction; var. cr. hrs. ; Graduate students only 
CHANGES 
AERO 441L 01. 10614 change time to 11:00 • 12:15 
ARHI 470 01 • #3519  clulnge dayS/time to MW 02:20 • 03:10  
ARHI 570 01 • #3524  clulnge dayS/time to MW 02:20 • 03:-0  
CHEG 448 01.11013  change time to 12:15 • 01:05  
CHEM 116 01. #2930  add prerequisite· CHEM 115 or 117  
CHEM 116 02 • #2932  add prerequisite· CHEM 115 or 117  
CHEM 116 03 • #2934  add prerequisite· CHEM 115 or 117  
CHEM 116 04. #2936  add prerequisite· CHEM 115 or 117  
CHEM 118 01.12931  add prerequisite· CHEM 115 or 117  
CHEM 118 02. #2933  add prerequisite· CHEM 115 or 117  
CHEM 118 03 • #2935  add prerequisite • CHEM 115 or 117  
CHEM 118 04 • #2937  add prerequisite· CHEM 115 or 117  

CHEM 236L 01 • f1052clulnge requirements to CHEM 224 or 236 pre. or corequisite 
add corequisite • CHEM 329L CHEM 329 01 • 11057 add prerequisite· ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 301 01 • t1160 prerequisite· ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 301 02 • #1161 add prerequisite • ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 301 03 • #3745 add prerequisite • ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 302 01 • 11162 add prerequisite· ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 302 02 • #1163 add prerequisite • ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 315 01 • 13141 add prerequisite· ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 350 01 • 11164 add prerequisite • ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 350 02 • 13747 add prerequisite • ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 380 01 • 12969 add prerequisite. ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 445 01 • 11365 change prerequisite to ECON 301 and 302 ECON 592 01 • 13755 add prerequisite • ECON 494 or 591 
ENGL 340T OS. 13862 change time to 08:00 • 08:50 GEOS 342 01 • 11139 change days/time to TH 01:15.02:30, change credit hours to 
4, and change prerequisite to EASC 341 GOVT 342 01 • 11507 add corequisite of GOVT 342T GOVT 446 01 • 13605 should not be a "Recommended University Elective" GOVT 451 01 • Call number should be #3367 GOVT 482 01 • 13598 Course number has been changed to 485 HIST 225 01 • 10135 Not open to anyone who has taken HIST 115 or HIST 116 liPS 478P 01 • 13984 change days to MF 11:15 ·12:30 liPS 578 01 · 13321 change days to MF 11:15 • 12:30 ;.a;.. 645 01 · 13912 change restriction to MBAA only MBA 646 01 • 11810 change restriction to MBA only MGT 240 01 • 11863 change days/time to MWF 01:15. 02:05 and the instructor is R. Bualuan MGT 487 01 • 13800 is '"Permission Required" MGT 454 01 • 11872 change days/time to TH 11:00 • 12:15 MSA 545 01 • N3803 is not "Permission Required"; it is Majors only MSE 225 01 • 11988 chanae davsttime to TH 01:15-02:30: change coreauisite to CHEM 115 or 
117 or 125 or 195 and CHEM 116 or 118 or 126 or 196 PHIL 578 01 • 13320 change days to MF 11:15 • 12:30 SOC 202 01 • 12582 add restrictions· Sophomores or .Juniors only 
SOC 220 01 • 10333 add restrictions. Sophomores and Juniors only SOC 346 01 • 13027 add prerequisite. Any Soc course SOC 591 01 • 10106 change daysttime to TBA THEO 411 01 • 12672 change time to TH 09:30. 10:45 

NEW DART INFORMATION 
Because of a concern over equal access to closed courses which reopen, there will be a change in the way DART handles them. Instead of reopening immediately, closed courses eligible to reopen (meaning that at least one person has dropped) will be listed in the Observer. After this listing appears, the courses will be opened for the next call back period. 
We have also developed a contingency plan in case of computer failure or any other emergency that severely disrupts registration. All appointment times will be moved back two days, from Monday to Wednesday or from Tuesday to Thursday for example. This two day move is necessary since appointment times are assigned so that they do not conflict with current classes and a Wednesday schedule should be very similar to a Monday schedule. (The same is true for Tuesday and Thursday schedules.) If registration is delayed for more than two days, the appointments would be pushed back a corresponding length of time. The appointments times would remain the same, only the date would change. If such a change ever becomes necessary it will be published in the Observer (if possible) and posted at the Registrar's office and all departmental and college offices. 
Remember that you can use the DART Course Exchange Option to attempt to register for a different class without dropping one you already have. The old course will be dropped only if you are successful in adding the new course. This option is useful if you have a full load, if you want to try to get into a different section of a course, or if a course you want has a time conflict with one you already have. For more information see page 15 in the DART book. 
--...... -... --... --.. -•• -• --••• ---.. --• ------• -... -•••••• -................ --...........................A ........._ ............................................................. -.. ------­
Friday, Novemb_~r a, 1991 The Observer page 2 7 
-



@Edward Julius Collegiate OJ8817 
.. 
CAMPUS 
Friday 

7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Guilty by Suspicion." Annenberg Auditorium. Friday and Saturday. 
LECTURE 
Friday 

3:30 p.m. Romance Languages and Literature Lecture Series, "Machiavelli's Gift of Counsel," Albert Ascoli, Northwestern University. Medieval Institute Library, Room 715, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by romance languages department. 
4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Jordan Algebras, Siegel Domains and Several Complex Variables," Kenneth Gross, University of Vermont. Room 226, Mathematics Building. Sponsored by the Department of Mathematics. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Marinated Flank Steak Sandwich 43 Taking repose 12 Mr. Kadiddlehopper, Noodles Romanoff
ACROSS 
44 Cowboy gear et a1 • Chili Crispitoes 1 Chew noisily 46 Slight or remote 13 Submit tamely 
Fried Perch

6 Inundates 47 Equilibrium (abbr.) 14 Affirms 12 "Ben Hur" vehicle 48 Figures out 19 Plains plant 14 French city or lace 50 Miss Lupino 22 Broke, as a 1os i ng 15 Toiler 51 Mouthlike opening streak 16 -point 53 Cats 24 Small finches Saint Mary's 17 Mr. Wallach 55 Terms of office 26 Convnence 
Beef Ragout Burgandy 

18 Entertainers 56 Comrades 28 Epsom ­
Chicken Fajitas 

20 "ap abbreviation 57 Cubic meters 30 Hiss MacGraw 
• 21 Baseba11 champs of 58 Potatoes 31 Actor -Hall Deli Bar 1986 33 Has an influence 
Baked Perch 

23 Startle DOWN on (2 wds.) 24 Fibber 34 Long-running 25 Stupefies 1 Ski lodges Broadway show 27 Weight units 2 Frequenter 35 "Sweet -" 
(abbr.) 3 Spanish gold 37 Like serviced 28 Bell sounds 4 "Look out!" (Sp.) brakes 29 Ocean story? 5 John Donne's forte 38 Baseball pitches 
( 2 wds. ) 6 Blaze of light 39 English explorers 31 Or. Salk 7 Telescope part 40 Fruit favorite 32 Beige (2 wds.) 9 Canadian province 42 Gather together 34 Bay of Naples isle (abbr.) 44 Sneaker part 36 Sleigh parts 9 Simple wind 45 Hebrew measures 39 Military student instrument 48 -drill 40 Confer knighthood 10 1.0. collars 49-happy 
upon ( 2 wds.) 52 Game show prize 41 Inscribed stone 11 Shows scorn 54 Printer's union 

-



' . 
) 
~ -~ 
'j \ ' ) t 
Sports 

! l. \ 
page 28 Friday, November 8,1991 
Irish host Vols in '91 home finale 
Pay-per-view plan for NO-Penn State game tabled 

~ \· ' :l 
.I~ I ~. : )' ~ ; 
' i ~ 
I , ·. 
I ~n il
i \ \ 
'l I I~
I \ 
I l~ 
: '\ 
;~ I !'~
~ 
b 
~~ 
~ , 
J 

By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
The Fighting Irish can clear another hurdle on the road to their dream season tomorrow with a win over the talented Tennessee Volunteers. 
Of course, if the Vols have their way, the Notre Dame dream season could suddenly become a nightmare. 
Notre Dame hopes to gain a bowl berth against either the top-ranked team or a team which, were the Irish to win, would give them a credible claim to the national champi­onship. 
Yet while Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz maintains that his team can still realize its dreams, he is quick to point out that all dreams would end with a defeat at the hands of the Volunteers. 
"On occasion I will tell the team, 'Every dream we had be­fore the season is still alive. Every single one of them,'" said Holtz. "I haven't told them that 
• Ratigan feature/page 24 
since just before they went out to hit the sign against Navy. I won't tell them again until they get ready to hit the sign against Tennessee." 
The Tennessee offense has been running in high gear lately, piling up school records in yardage (603 vs. Memphis State), outgaining opposing of­fenses in total yardage, and breaking the 500-yard mark three times. 
On the season, senior quar­terback Andy "Machine Gun" Kelly has led the Vols to an av­erage of 468 yards per game and 29 points per game, in ad­dition to conversions on nearly 50 percent of third down ef­forts. 
Yet just as the men of Rocky Top can pile up offensive statis­tics like firewood in autumn, the Irish defense is equally ca­pable of raining on any of­fense's fireworks display. 
While Holtz is the first to admit that the Irish defensive 

Swim teams host meet tonight with international flavor 
By DAN PIER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame athletic teams routinely play against top com­petition from across the United States, but tonight's swim meet will add an international flair to the campus sports scene. The Irish host Western Ontario beginning at 7:00 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Both the men's and women's teams hope to repeat last year's success against Western Ontario. The men won their match easily, taking eight of the nine individual events. David Nathe placed first in the 50­and 100-yard freestyle sprints. Joe Rentz won the 200-yard butterfly, and Roger Rand captured the 200-yard breaststroke. All three will re­turn to defend their titles. They will face stiff competition, though, from newcomers on their own team. 
"The freshman class is very strong this year," said Rand. "Mike Keeley is outstanding in the distance freestyles and the 200-yard fly. Alan Shaw and Matt Gibbons have also been major contributors." With their added firepower and the expe­rience of the upperclassmen, the Irish hope to dominate again. 
The women's team won six events in last year's meet. Tanya Williams produced two firsts and set a Western Ontario pool record in the 200-yard fly. Collette LaForce, Kristin Heath, Shana Stephens, and Kay Broderick also topped races. 
Like the men, the Irish women boast an impressive array of freshmen. That group 

AP File Photo 
A new career 
Los Angeles Laker superstar Earvin "Magic" Johnson (shown here vs. Detroit} announced his retirement from basketball yesterday after disclosing he had tested positive for the HIV virus. Story on page 21. 

is led by Jenni Dahl, who is to see Canada and for them to already in the Irish record see the United States," she said. books. Dahl's performance Though the competition has against Arkansas in her first . been somewhat lopsided re­varsity meet set a school cently due to the rapid rise of standard in the 500-yard the Irish programs, the rela­freestyle. tionship between the teams is 
"The freshman have already not limited to the pool. Wood had a major impact in the first explained that the two have a few meets," commented senior friendly rivalry. swimmer Becky Wood. "They "Before the meet, both an­are a real asset to the team." thems are played and the cap­
Wood called the Western tains exchange gifts. After­Ontario meet unique because it wards, the teams will go out for is the only international meet pizza and we'll host their for the Irish. swimmers for the night," she 
"It's a nice opportunity for us said. 
Women's tennis rounds out fall season vs. Vols 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 

The last test for the Irish 
women's tennis team this fall 
may be its toughest. 

This weekend, Tennessee's 
15th-ranked squad will descend 
upon the Eck Pavilion to pro­
vide a stiff challenge for a Notre 
Dame team determined to 
battle its way into the top 20. 
The Irish, coming off of last season's superb performance which saw them receive a first­ever national ranking, were left out of this fall's poll, even though they only lost one starter from last season's lineup and the lone freshman on the team, Laura Schwab, has proved to be a tremendous asset. 
This matchup will be the last competition of the fall season, and the first of two dual matches against Tennessee, the second one coming in the spring. The Irish will be led by junior Melissa Harris at first singles. Harris is playing strong tennis right now, compiling a 17-2 record and winning two tournaments this fall. 
Following Harris will be se­nior captain Tracy Barton, making her first appearance of the fall season and playing sec­
ond singles, with Laura Schwab 
at third, Christy Faustmann at 
fourth, Lisa Tholen at fifth, and 
Terri Vitale playing sixth singles 
to round out the lineup. 
"I think we've made quite a bit of progress in the fall," said Irish coach Jay Louderback, "and everybody has had good matches. All six in the singles lineup could be playing number one at a lot of schools. This will give us a lot of balance and be really helpful in the spring. The only thing that concerns me right now is our doubles. We'll find out today how these com­binations work out." 
At doubles against Tennessee, the Irish will again be trying out new combinations, seeking the perfect teams to compete with in the spring. At first doubles, Harris will be making her first appearance in doubles competition this season. team­ing with Ann Bradshaw at the number-one slot. 
At second doubles, the Irish will play Eniko Bende and Faustmann, with Kristy Doran and Tholen competing at the third spot. 
"Doubles should be interest­ing, " said Doran. "I think ev­erybody wants a big win, and people will make the extra ef­
see TENNIS/ page 23 

J 

unit is not yet to be considered great, he also is quick to add that his youthful defenders will improve with age. 
"We are going to have a dominating defense at Notre Dame," said Holtz. "That is our number one goal." 
In pointing to the future prowess of his defense, Holtz especially mentioned the play of sophomore cornerback Tom Carter. 
"I want to let you in on a se­cret, because you're going to find it out eventually," said Holtz. "Tommy Carter is pretty darn good. All you notice is that people don't throw in his area very often. Tommy Carter is really special." 
Of the ten players on the Irish depth charts in the secondary, only three-senior line­backer/safety Greg Davis, senior strong safety Rod Smith and senior quarterback/free safety George Poorman-are not true sophomores. 
The front six are similarly 

see VOLS I page 24 '
. 
. . . .. --.. . --.. ... ---... ----... ----... -.... ------.. ----... .. --.. ----... ----------. ---­

Notre ame 







..-.ift 
-~n1 ~w 
·:.,:..·., 

~-... 
' .. 
··~ 
.. ·.•:.:;...-. ~~ rJif'!Jl' ·ir 
•

X 
anston ears 



Photos courtesy University Archives Top: Pictured here are the second Main Building and the first main church. The building in front of the church served as a temporary bell tower to hold the twenty-three bell carillon which was too heavy for the church bell tower. Above: The University band in one group in which students have participated since the early years of the University. 
By JAY COLUCCI 
Production Manager 
A 
t no other time in the history of the University of Notre Dame was there so much doubt, and yet so much hope in its future. 
By 1865 the University had begun to establish itself. Destroyed by fire in the spring of 1879, the main building was rebuilt in just one summer due to the incredible resolve of Father Edward Sorin and the University faculty. Father Patrick Dillon, Notre Dame's second president, supervised the construction of the second Administration Building. The new building served as the focus of University life. containing student dormitories, classrooms, and offices. 
To match the expansion of buildings on campus, the academic curriculum was also expanded in many ways. Departments of science, law, and engineering joined the department of commerce in augmenting the classical, liberal arts program. Father Auguste Lemonnier. the fifth president of the University, developed a set of goals to expand and improve academics at Notre Dame. 
At this time, there were few good Catholic scholars in the United States. Few laymen accepted the $600 salary offered by the University. Those that did were. often alumni such as Professors Joseph Lyons and Timothy Howard. 

Before students became alumni they were forbidden from being on the front porch of the Administration Building. They first were allowed to walk down the steps after commencement. This regulation became a tradition that is still observed by some students today. 
As with today's Notre Dame students, many students derived their identity from the dormitory in which he lived. Before separate residence halls were built, students lived in one of the dormitories in the Ad­ministration Building. Brownson, Carroll, St. Patrick's, and St. Aloysius' Halls were located in the various wings on the third and fourth floors of the building. 
Leisure time activities for the students included athletic competition between the halls in football (soccer), sailing, and other activities. Students participated in other campus groups as well. The sailing club and band provided a change from the study environment within the dormitories. 
In 1879, the University came incredibly close to shutting its doors forever. However, through the hard work of the entire community, Notre Dame began to firmly establish itself as a premiere Catholic uni­versity. 
• 

~~-­
150 YEARS of Notre Dame 

page 2 Friday, November 8, 1991 
If it were ALL gone, I should not give up 

By EMILY WILLETT 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Within minutes the peace of a tranquil spring afternoon was disrupted. Within hours the Main Building of the University of Notre Dame was destroyed. 
At approximately 11 a.m. on April 23, 1879, several minim students (those under the age of twelve) reported fire on the roof of the building. 
In order to fight the blaze, men and boys lined the steps up to the sixth floor and passed buckets of water by hand. The South Bend steam pumper arrived long after the fire had begun, but aided in gaining control of the blaze. 
As the building burned, stu­dents tossed items from win­dows. Most of these broke or caught fire when they reached the ground. The Holy Cross sis­ters who were on hand carried articles from the kitchens, in­firmary and press to safety. Surprisingly, no lives were lost to the fire, and only minor in­juries were incurred. 
Once the blaze was brought under control, little remained. The infirmary, St. Francis Home, and Music Hall were destroyed in addition to the Main Building. 
Father William Corby, the University's president, met with advisors to plan a course of action. They concluded that the school year would have to be terminated. 
An hour later Corby an­nounced the decision to the students gathered in Sacred Heart Church. He promised, however, that a new college would be ready for them on the first Tuesday in September. 
When the fire broke out, Fa­ther Edward Sorin was en route to Europe. A messenger was sent from the University to intercept him in Montreal and inform him of the disaster. Sorin cancelled his trip, and returned to Notre Dame the following Sunday. 
After surveying the remains of the building, Sorin addressed the University community. Concluding with the words 'If it were all gone, I should not give up', he gave a sense of hope to all gathered. 
The University quickly began the process of rebuilding. Money came from all over the nation. The Notre Dame Club of Chicago organized a benefit concert to raise funds for the new building, while students and alumnae of Saint Mary's Academy raised money to pur­chase a new statue of the Vir­gin Mary for the top of the building. 
Notre Dame held fund raisers throughout the country during the summer in order to finance the construction. An architectural competition was held to choose the best plans for the new building and ground was broken on May 17. 
A crew of three hundred la­borers worked incessantly throughout the summer to see that the building would be completed for the new school term in September. In addition to the Main Building, the infir­mary and Minims Play Hall were also constructed during this time. 
The Main Building served a multitude of purposes for the University. The basement ini­tially provided trunk storage for students and then was used as classrooms for the senior students. 
Two student dining rooms were located in the building's wings, the east portion for minim and prep students, the west portion for collegians. 
The president and vice-presi­dent's offices. sleeping rooms, and parlor were located on the second floor, the main entrance of the building. A large public parlor was also located there. 
Students studied in the com­munal study halls located in the wings of this floor under the supervision of prefects from 7 p.m. until 10 p.m. each night. 
Dormitories occupied the third and fourth floors, and twenty-two classrooms were 
scattered throughout the build­ing. 
The destruction and recon­struction of the Main Building exemplified the dedication to the University and its mission that existed at the time. 
From fighting the flames to raising money for rebuilding, people demonstrated their sup­port. The new building served the needs of the school in many capacities, and remains a landmark of the University of Notre Dame. 

------.
-------··-----------·-···-· 
Terrible Fire. 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME IN ASHES! 
Three Hours Suffices 
to Destroy aFifth of 
a Million Dollars.
• 

SEVERAL FINE ADJAOENT BUILDINGS BURNED TO TBI1 GROUND. 
The ltagnfflcent Cathedral Un­touched by the Flames. 
INSURANCE, ABOUT $60.000. 
Full Details of the Great Calamity. 
• 
t 


Top left: On April 23, 1879, the second Main Building was destroyed in just a few hours by a fire which started on the pitch roof. Top right: This headline appeared in the South Bend Tribune on the day of the fire. Above: The present Administration Building was constructed over the summer and was ready for the students when they returned in September. The dome and wings were added later. 
1SO YEARS of Notre Dame 

Friday, November 8, 1991 page 3 
Students had to live under different rules 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Asst. Saint Mary's Editor 
The life of students at Notre Dame has always fallen under the jurisdiction of the college's rules. regulations. and policies. These "do's" and "do not's" of college living have changed and evolved along with the ways students have sought to amuse themselves. 
During Father Walsh's reign as president of the University, thirty-two students primarily from the Preparatory Depart­ment, went to town without permission or a chaperon. 
In town they frequented the local taverns and all returned to campus safely-except for two. 
These two students "had a real problem trying to find the campus, due to the varied routes suggested by the spirits they had so joyously consumed in town." 
A special meeting of the fac­ulty was convened, and it was decided the two who had caused the greatest scandal would be suspended, the re­maining thirty would receive a more mild punishment. 
The group protested and de­manded that the same punish­ment be given to all. They be­lieved that the two students would be reinstated and receive the same punishment as the other thirty. 
Instead, all thirty-two stu­dents were suspended. 
"It is better to have a small attendance at the University with good discipline than a large attendance without it," Walsh explained. "The rules will be preserved at any cost." 
During this time, smoking became a privilege of seniors (students over the age of 16) with the consent of their par­ents. Chewing tobacco was not forbidden, but it was discour­aged. 
Those who decided to chew 
had to pay people to clean-up 
after them in study halls and 
classrooms. 
Printed warnings were issued in papers threatening to prosecute those who sold liquor or gave it to students. 
Also a warning was issued to young women "to cease prowl­ing about the University grounds, especially Sunday afternoon and evening ... Their names are known and will be published." 
The South Bend Register re­ported that at Notre Dame the term "stag" did not take on the normal connotations of the word-beer and brawls. 
At an all-male school, stag meant "gentlemen dance with gentlemen without shocking the proprieties, or violating the rules of decorum," the Register states. "It is at once a diver­sion and an exercise in spiritual grace." 
Gasoline lamps-the first source of artificial light to be used on campus-were replaced by the incandescent electric light developed by Edison. 
Notre Dame claims to have been the first American college to be lighted by electricity. 
When the ·lights were turned upon the statue of Mary above the Dome for the first time, people thought "they were looking at a new comet that had suddenly appeared above Notre Dame." 
Football, still a form of soc­cer then, began to be played more frequently. With as many 

Photos courtesy University Archives One of the many activities in which students participated was the Notre Dame Boat Club seen here on Saint Mary's Lake. 
as sixty players on a side, dents were able to check-out Joseph's Lake were means of games were watched by stu­books from the University li­physical exercise as well as en­dents, faculty, and workmen. braries. tertainment. Rivalries between 
The Reds won over the Blues The first baseball team was crews developed, and in 1870 in a tough game in 1881. organized by Matthew the first race was held. Regat­
The prize, a barrel of cider, Campion in 1865. There were tas were part of the entertain­was not "pillow-soft," because approximately twelve teams ment for St. Edward's Day and the Reds were found "slightly who played among each other. commencement exercises. unmanageable" that evening, Adrian "Cap" Anson, who University rules have influ­and "required firm words by went on to play in the major enced student life throughout Father Corby to quell them." league, became a "diamond Notre Dame's history. Students 
A few private rooms were immortal," played on the were expected at all times and made available in the new col­Juanitas, one of several in all places to "behave like lege buildings. These rooms campus teams. gentlemen." were set aside for students of From its humble beginnings, "Good habits, gentlemanly "superior talent and conduct." Notre Dame's varsity baseball deportment, politeness, neat­
In 187 3 the first telegraph program evolved. The Univer­ness, order, application, re­was installed, and in 1878, the sity became known as a base­spect for God, and attention to first telephone service between ball school, until the days of religious duties are expected Notre Dame and South Bend Knute Rockne. from them." was established. Father Sorin amused himself Throughout these years, stu­
The use of the phone devel­by playing marbles, while dents have been subjected to oped into a social affair when others enjoyed weekly excur­life living according to the music was sung and the sions, walks, hunting, skating, regulations. Some have orchestra performed selections swimming, boating, baseball, maintained them, others have over the phone. and football. broke and challenged them, 
Also during this time, the Boating in particular was a and many have sought ways in University began a circulating favorite of students. Both which to amuse themselves library. For the first time, stu-rowing and sailing on St. which do not violate the rules. 

UNIVERSITY REGULATIONS. 
SPECIAL RULES. 
1. 
The' ~tudents of Notre Dame should at all times and everywhere behave like gentle­men. Tht!relc•re. good habits; gentlemanly deportment, politeness. neatness, order, applica-1.. tion, respect fur God and attention to religious duties are expected from them. 

2. 
All the Students are required to ~od the exercises of public wonhip with punctu­ality llnd rlecorum. They mu3t be provided with books guitable fi•r divine worship. 


3. As ff\1111 R.i! the bell aunnunces the beginning or end of a College exercise, every one shall repair iu silence to the discharge of that duty to which he is called. 
~. The time uf recreation exCt'pted, silen<.-e must. be inviolably observed in all places . 
.'). Stud,~nt.s must show themselves obedient and respectful towards the Professors and 
Prefects of the lostitution. They must never abSent themselves from the place iu which they ought to be, uuless with permission from proper authority. 
6. 
Students must Cftrefully avuid every expression in the least injurioua to Religion, their ProfC'aOr.s, Prefects or fellow-Studeuu. 

7. 
Students are not permit&M to v~it private rooms. 

8. 
lutoxicating liquon are ablolutely prohibited. 

9. 
Compt>nsation for all dam~ done to the furnitul't', or other propertv of the Collt.·r, will ~ l'f'quii"NI from the pel'1'0n or p4'nons uu11ing such dama~. 

10. 
No branch of study, once t'()mmenced shllll be di.seout inued without permission of the Direct.or of Studies. 

11. 
Unless with parents and guardians, Students are not allowed to remain with viaiton. 


l:t. No one shall leave the University gro•tnds wiLhout permiaeion from the President. \'ice-Preaident or Prefect of Discipliue. 
13. Any breach of pure moral!!, either in word .-.r action, must be reported forthwith to the President, Vice-President or Prefect of Discipline. 
H. Students are not allowed to enter the playgrouutl:~ of the other departments without special permiaion. 
15. 
No students are permitted to take pri,·ate walks unle;:~ accompanied by a PrefecL 

16. 
No one shall keep in his po.cse!aion any mouev except what he receives weekly from the Treasurer, on Wednesday!, at nine o'cloi:k, a. ni. The College will not be responsible for any ,·aluables, such as watches, money, etc., uull'l!s depo.•ited with the Secretary. 

17. 
Bulletins are sent to parents every month. 

18. 
Bath-rooms, provided with hot and cold water, are fitted up for the use ofthe Students. 

19. 
Stationery, etc., "·ill be deli"\'ered to the Studeu~ daily, during the morning and the evening reoet's. 

20. 
Students of low and vicious habits will not be retained in the College. 

21. 
Students who have failed to give satisfaction in the class-room, or who shAll have been guilty of mi..QConduct or breach of rule, will be sent to the detention-room during the recreations or promenades, and required to prepare their ll'l!rons or perform such tasks 8..8 !hall be as~igued them, and will be excluded from all College exercises until such tasks be accom11lished. 

22. 
Every month the Studtmta must write to th~ir parents or guardians. All letters sent or receh·ed" may be opened by the President, Vice-President or Prefect of Discipline. 

23. 
No book, periodical or newspaper shall be introduced into the College without being previou!!ly exammed aud approved of by the Director of Studies. Objectional reading­matter found in the ~ion of Students will either be destroyed or 11"ithheld from them until their departure from the L'niven!ity. • 

24. 
Whether in class or in recreation, when permitted to convene at table, or d~r1ng their walks, students should endeavor to improYe the purity of their language and cultivate urbanity of manners. Bad habits and manners are !!ufficient to deprive a Student of De­gree!! and Honors. . 

25. 
The Students are reviewed on 'Vednesdays aud Sundays with regard to theu per­IOD&) neatness. 


W. CORBY, C. S.C., President. 
\ 
f 

Upon first ~nee, the rules from the 1870's seem much stricter than the present rules today. However, upon closer examination, one sees the alarming similarities. Usted on the left are Father Corby's University regulations from the 1870's. On the right are the corresponding 1991 regulations either directly taken from Du Lac, or understood on campus. Compare for yourselves. 
1991 UNIVERSITY REGULATIONS 
Compiled by Jeanne Blasi 

1. 
Students are to abide by the rules and regulations in Du Lac on and off campus. Responsible behavior is expected at all times in all places; this includes at the University ofMichigan. 

2. 
The University and Residence halls provide both daily ,and Sunday masses. 


4. The Grotto maintains a respectable quiet at all times. 
6. 
Any group which seeks to proselytize Catholic students or which in any way is disrespectful of or antagonistic to the doctrine and tradition of the Roman Catholic Church will not be approved. (DuLac, 1991) 

7. 
The University has instituted a policy of limited parietal visitation to foster the personal and social development of residence hall students while, at the same time, responding to the safety, security and privacy needs of students sharing common living space. 

8. 
No Alcoholic beverages may be carried in the corridors or any other 


public area of the residence hall in any kind of container, including souvenir cups. Souvenir cups are prohibited. (DuLac, 1991) 
10. The student who wishes to transfer colleges within the University must have the approval of the deans ofboth colleges. (DuLac, 1991) 
13. Overnight parietal violations are considered serious violations and students who commit such violations shall be subject to suspension or dismissal. (DuLac, 1991) 
15. Escorts from Notre Dame Safe Walk are available to accompany students walking on campus after dark. (DuLac, 1991) 
17. 
Student report cards are sent to freshman parents at mid-semester and at the semester break. 

18. 
Telephones are provided in each residence hall room. A resident may dial direct from his or her room to a campus or South Bend area telephone without charge. (DuLac, 1991) 


20. Because a genuine and complete expression of love through sex requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of two persons in marriage, the University believes that sexual union should occur only in marriage. Students found in violation of this policy shall be subject to suspension or dismissal. (DuLac, 1991) 
-

21. The University reserves the right to require the withdrawal of any student when academic performance, health status or general conduct may be judged clearly detrimental to the best interest of either the student or the University community. (Du Lac, 1991) 
23. 
The University of Notre Dame should not prohibit the orderly distribution of student literature on campus except that which could be reasonably construed to be in violation of the law. (DuLac, 1991) 

24. 
The throwing of food or other objects in the dining halls is an offense against the entire community. (Du Lac, 1991) 


•. ' •• t 4 
1SO YEARS of Notre Dame 

page 4 Friday, November 8, 1991 
Lyons left behind more than just a dorm 

for his genuine concern for Photo courtesy University Archives dency of Fr. Walsh, Notre students. Professor Lyons sits with one of his English classes. Professor Lyons spent most of his life here at the Dame experienced a shortage 
Lyons first came to Notre University, becoming one of the most distinguished lay faculty members. of on-campus housing for stu­Dame in 1848, at the age of fif­tion and the classics. These in-From his room in the old ad-students. A tireless worker, dents. The administration de­teen. An orphan, he entered terests, coupled with a growing ministration building, Lyons Lyons organized several liter­sired to keep students on cam­the shoemaker's shop as an ap­uncertainty regarding the warmly welcomed all students. ary societies and published pus and so a series of new prentice in order to earn priesthood, convinced him to While sitting in his easy chair several books of national freshmen r~sidence halls were money and learn a trade. pursue a career in teaching. he would conduct congenial reputation, including "The commissioned and built. Within three years, due to Shortly thereafter, Lyons discussions, patiently answer American Elocutionist," which One of these dormitories. additional hard work and again entered the University of questions, and freely give com-became a standard text on the completed in the spring of study, Lyons had acquired a Notre Dame as a student. In panionship. subject. 1927, was dedicated to the fine education. 1862, he graduated with the In 1865, Lyons' senior stu-In 1869, he compiled and memory of Lyons. 
In 1851, Father Sorin, im­highest honors. dents declared, "No one knows published the "Silver Jubilee," For twenty-six years, Lyons pressed with the boy's attitude Upon graduating, Lyons en-better than the student how to a history of the University of served as the heart and soul of and determination, gave Lyons tered the teaching profession. appreciate the worth of a good Notre Dame, and for a number the Notre Dame faculty. Dur­the present of one year's As a Notre Dame English pro-and noble friend; and such a of years he published an an­ing his involvement with this tuition at the University. Lyons fessor, he became a very effi-friend have the students of nual, called the "Scholastic An-institution, he witnessed the eagerly accepted the gift and cient and popular faculty mem-Notre Dame ever found in you" nual." University's growth from .... entered the Scholasticate to her. In addition to his regular du-On August 22, 1888, Lyons infancy to youthful vigor. Lyons study for the ministry. In one of Notre Dame's first ties as a member of the Notre passed away following an ex­invested his entire person in 
After a number of years of so-called "bachelor dons," Dame faculty, Lyons also re-tended illness. Notre Dame; the academic study, Lyons began to exhibit a Lyons resided along with stu-mained very active in the reli-His death, although not un­growth of this institution be­particular attraction to elocu-dents in a campus dormitory. gious and literary life of the expected, was met with great came a personal labor of love. 
New schools expand University's perspective 
By CARRIE CUMMINS was established. This class The Law Course at Notre an examination in French and German had been News Writer led to the planting of what Dame marked the Mathematics and Physical offered in the past, but at this was perhaps the most establishment of the first law Science. time they became 
Notre Dame's curriculum complete botanical garden in program in an American After only two years, the Civil requirements of the Scientific took on major expansions the country at this point in Catholic university. Engineering program became and Classical Courses. during the period of 1866-time. By 1874, the University a one year course, with the Father Auguste Lemonnier 1895. The departments of In 1873, the Science Course added the Civil Engineering junior year included in the designed the three year course 
Natural and Physical Science, expanded again, offering three Course as a two year, post Science Course. to offer more advanced work Law, Civil Engineering, and times as many science courses graduate course. Students than was provided in the past. Modern Language were added as it had in the past. were not necessarily required Due to the students' interest Through the implementation to the already existing In 1869, under Father to complete a Bachelor of in modern languages, 1865 of these changes, the college academic programs. William Corby's Science degree in the Science marked the beginning of the expanded its potential as a 
administration, Notre Dame Course, but expected to pass Modern Language Courses. successful university. 
Notre Dame, before 1886, established the Law Course. was a college consisting of only The law classes were first a faculty of arts. The creation taught by Professor Colovin, of the Science Course became brother to Reverend Patrick a turning point in the scientific Colovin, the fifth president of development of the University. the university. 
Father Patrick Dillon, the second president of Notre During the initial years, the Dame, promoted the law program had very few foundation of the Science students. The records from Course. The course began 1871 recorded only three 
with few variances from the graduates. The department arts curriculum, substituting did not become a success until science courses for the 1883 when Professor William classical languages. Hoyes was appointed dean. 
Professor Hoyes increased 
Father Joseph Carrier was the number of students to the first professor of physics between 35 and 40 students. and chemistry. Carrier was Besides the regular courses, given the responsibility as students studied laws curator of the University associated with their particular museum and laboratory. In states and participated in the 1867 the first course of botany Moot Court (mock trials). 
Editor's Note: research on this project. 
This section is the second The design, layout, and in a series examining the editing of this section was 150-year history of Notre done by Jay Colucci and Dame. Special thanks to Emily Willett. Lisa Eaton Charles Lamb of University and Jennifer Habrych copy 

Timothy Howard, professor and alumnus, used telescopes to supplement his science course. The science 
Archives for assisting in edited. 

department was established in 1865 during Father Patick Dillons term as University president. 

• J .1· 
. _....,.._. . , 
/_-vo I 4 2 lf] f j::A.'1, /Vo V. f', /7 '1/7

L-D 7'1/J',C>It; 
·­


-, 
-\ ­


Irish Football '91 

page 2 Friday November 8, 1991 
GAME INFO 
THE GAME: Tennessee (5-2) at Notre Dame (8-1). 
TIME: 1:35 p.m. EST. 
TV & RADIO: NBC (Dick Enberg, Bill Walsh, John Dockery) will televise the game live to a national audience. Host Creative Communications (Jim Henderson. Paul Hornung) will replay the game on numerous syndicated SportsChannel sta­tions, including WNDU-TV In South Bend 
(12:30 a.m. EST Monday) and SportsChannel Chicago (8:00 a.m. EST Sunday). The Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) will carry the game to 280 stations across the country, includ­ing WNDU-AM, WNDU-FM and WSBT-AM in South Bend and WMAO.-AM in Chicago. 
TICKETS: Notre Dame Stadium, which 
holds 59,075, is sold out for the 1DOth 
consecutive time. 
RANKING$: Notre Dame: NCSW 5th, AP 5th. Tennessee: NCSW 13th, AP 13. 
THE SERIES: Notre Dame leads 2-1. 
THE LAST TIME: Notre Dame 34, Ten­nessee 29. 
LAST WEEK: Tennessee blasted Mem­
phis State 52-24 as quarterback Andy 
Kelly completed 28 of 37 passes for 319 
yards and tailback Aaron Hayden rushed 
for 169 yards and three touchdowns. 
1991 SCHEDULES 
'NOTRE DAME 
w49·27
Sept. 7 INDIANA 
L 14·24 
Sept.14 at Michigan 
W49·10
Sept. 21 MICHIGAN STATE 
W4~20
Sept. 28 at Purdue 
W42·26
Oct. 5 at Stanford 
W42o.7
Oct. 12 PITTSBURGH 
W28o.15.
Oct.J9 a1 Air Force 
w24-2()
Oct.26 SOUTHERN CAL 
W38..()
Nov.2 ·.NAVY 
(34~2$)
Nov.9 .TENNESSEE 
.. (21.-24)
Nov~l6 · at Penn State 
•.. >(DNP)···
Nov. 30 at Hawaii 
TENNESSEE 
Sept. 5  at Louisville  w28-11  
Sept. 14  UCLA  w30-16  
Sept. 21  MISSISSIPPI STATE  W 26-24  
Sept. 28  AUBURN  w30-21  
Oct. 12  at Florida  L 18-35  
Oct. 19  ALABAMA (at Birm.)  L 19-24  
Nov.2  MEMPHIS STATE  w52-24  
Nov. 9  at Notre Dame  (29-34)  
Nov. 16  MISSISSIPPI  (22-13)  
Nov.23  at Kentucky  (42-28)  
Nov. 30  VANDERBILT  (49-20)  
..>•• BA  

S.t._N• Sun~ 

A true student-athlete 
DuBose a winner on and off field 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
When people think of the term "student-athlete" today, they tend to laugh. 
But one just has to look at players like Demetrius DuBose to realize that not all college athletes think their classes are a joke. 
Not that the junior linebacker from Seattle couldn't let his ac­complishments on the field speak for themselves. The Butkus Award semifinalist leads the Irish with 110 tackles (66 solo), two fumble recover­ies, and a 49-yard interception return for a touchdown (against Indiana). 
But DuBose doesn't want to be known just for his performance on the gridiron. His athletic talents drew offers from West Coast powerhouses Washington, USC, UCLA and Colorado, but he was looking for more. 
"I chose Notre Dame because it was the chance to excel in both academics and athletics, to be in the best of both worlds," he explained. "When I came here, I had two goals: to graduate and to win the Butkus Award. I'm on time to graduate (a 3.0 GPA in government and English), so that's taking care of itself, and the Butkus will too." 
"He's a guy who's committed to doing the right things both on and off the field," added defensive coordinator Gary Darnell. "He brings leadership to this team, and that's an important quality for a linebacker-and Demetrius is very conscious of its importance." 
After earning a monogram his freshman year and playing in the Orange Bowl against Colorado, DuBose came into his own for the Irish last season. He began the year splitting time with Donn Grimm at inside linebacker, but established himself as the starter midway through the year. 
He was the second-leading tackler coming back for the 1991 season with 48 tackles (32 solo), and was named the defensive MVP for the Blue-Gold game this spring with 10 tackles. DuBose was also named a preseason second-team All-American by Don Heinrich's College Football as well as College & Pro Football Newsweekly. 
He has not disappointed. 
He has led the Irish in tackles in all but two games this season, including a career-high 19 against Air Force. He has been a constant in a lineup decimated by injuries-a force to be reckoned with in the middle of the Notre Dame defense. 
r----------------------, 


None of which is a surprise to Irish coach Lou Holtz. 
"I remember him getting into the game against Miami his freshman year, and even though we lost, it was obvious watching him on the field that he belonged out there," Holtz related. "He is an excellent talent, an outstanding competitor. He is the emotional leader of our defense." 
''I've done what's been asked of me, and that's the best I can do," DuBose said. "A lot of people seem to overemphasize my statistics, but my job is just to be a leader on defense and make the plays." 
At 6-2, 234 pounds, DuBose has similar physical dimensions to another outstanding inside linebacker to Notre Dame, Stonebreaker (6-1, 228). All Stonebreaker did third in the Butkus voting his senior year and American honors in 1988 and 1990 before being drafted by the Chicago Bears in the 1991 draft. 
"He's (DuBose) got degree of size, speed, strength; he has good agility and good mobility," described Darnell. "He's not the fastest linebacker in the country, or the strongest, 

LVIICB SPECIAL Mon.-Fri. 
FREE 

FRENCH FRIES. With Any Sandwich Order 
After 11:00 A.M. Please 
Open 7 Days AWeek At 6:30 A.M. 

U. Sl (!Uiaway) 111rt11 ia RoSIIMHAalu tr. lllliDy Ill) ZJ2-74SS 
or the quickest, but he has good qualities in each of those areas, and that's what makes the total package for him." 
DuBose exudes confidence on the field and has a natural enthusiasm for the game-two qualities which · translate into his position as "emotional leader" for the Irish defense. But the same spark he gives 
see DUBOSE I page 8 
NOVDIBER SPECIAL 
OVEN BAKED 4EGG JUMBO 
OMELETS
so•OFF 
No Coupon Needed Serving Michiana For Over 26 Y~ars 
HOUSES FOR RENT 1992·1993 SCHOOL YEAR 
Super landlords Inexpensive 5 and 6 bedrooms Security Systems $100 off first month's rent with this ad 
Call Irish Rentals 287-4989 Offer expires 11/8/91 
I.Buy 4* ~ions at the regura-;l
I·price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5  I  
1and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and  1  
1 Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA7  1  

L---------~
• 
Odeaaollalrt'uttlngCo. 
~iiiNDtAN RIDGE P~o.Ai~CJW_... 
. NEXT TO \IEtmJAE 
GRAPE AD., MISHAWAKA 
-277-7SM6 
Dallyt-8 _____.. 


page 3 
Irish Football '91

Friday, November 8, 1991 
Howard, Weldon lead Heisman chase 
FSU-Miami match up crucial to Seminole QB's chances 
By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
When the 1991 Heisman tro­phy began back in August, it appeared to be either Ty Det­mer's or David Klingler's to win or lose. 
But the scenario has changed since then, throwing Houston quarterback Klingler back into the back and all but eliminating Brigham Young quarterback Detmer. 
The race, one of the longest in all of sport, has developed into a sprint during the second-half of the season between Michigan wide receiver/kick returner Desmond Howard and Florida State quarterback Casey Weldon. 
Howard, who caught two touchdown passes for 4 7 and 17 yards last week against Purdue in the Wolverines' 42-0 win, has 1,229 all-purpose yards and 19 touchdowns. 


Heisman award voters. 

@j@[L[F ~G{J@[F) 
b.\tr 

OO@lffm[g @£[M]~ 
"On tM Curve." in the. Rockne Memorial 

Open Football Weekends Friday 6:30am • 5:00pm '"""Iu•u•'"" 6:30am-one hour before Sunday 6:30am-4:00pm 
QUALITY GIFTS FROM THE TOP NAMES IN GOLF CLASSIC NOTRE DAME LOGOS 
WILSON TITLEIST RAM 
AUREUS 
PICKERING 
HAAS JORDAN 
TEXACE 
AND MANY MORE 

TM GolfSloop a1 Notr~ Dam.e i.r o~n March 1 rhru Christnt~U. A.full line of qualiry Noru DtUM apptJul and gifts for w golf~r is awailabu. For mou infonMrion on IM Univesity's golf COUTS~ andpro mop, call: 
(219) 239-6425 
The junior has scored at least 
two touchdowns in every game 
to lead the Wolverines to a 7-1 
record. 
Weldon missed the top-ranked 
Seminoles' game last week 
against Louisville with a 
ligament injury in his left knee, 
but he should return tomorrow 
against South Carolina to build 
upon his already outstanding 
numbers. 
The senior quarterback has thrown for 1,829 yards, com­pleting 129-of-208 for 18 touchdowns. Weldon threw for a career high 34 7 yards against Syracuse on a 22-of-37 per­formance 
Since Weldon became a starter 15 games ago, the 'Noles haven't lost. If he can continue such a streak, it could be a factor in the voting. 
Florida State doesn't lose anything on defense, either. 
Cornerback/punt returner Terrell Buckley had his third two-interception game of the season last week. On the sea­son, Buckley has eight intercep­tions for 183 yards and stands behind only John Provost of Holy Cross on the NCAA's all­time list with 446 interception return yards. 
Against Michigan, Buckley snagged two interceptions to win one of the early season matchups pitting Heisman hopefuls. 
Another, although to a lesser degree, kicks off Saturday in 
Notre Dame Stadium 
Please support. 
+ 
Amencan 
Red C..­
Graduate Nurses••• 
What are you looking for in a nursing careerl 
f!f'Strong encouragement and support for your goals ~Thorough orientation, geared to your own education and experience ~ Membership on one of the world's most respected medical teams ~Patient and family oriented practice ~On-site and off site continuing education r!fworld-class challenges l!fThe possibility to grow whether 
in clinical practice, management, research or education ~Flexible scheduling r!f Competitive salary & benefits lif'Progressive technology f!f'Diverse range of clinical specialities 
What are you lookingfor in a place to live? 
~A beautiful midwestern city of 70,000 l!fA community of professionals 1!'1' Recreational and cultural opportunities for all seasons f!!Cosmopolitan atmosphere in an internationally known medical center 
Look into Mayo Mediml Center, Rochester, Minnesota For information: 
Mayo Medical Center, Nursing Recruitment, P.O. Box 6057, Rochester, MN 55903-6057 1-800-247-8590 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmative action and equal
opportunity educator and employer 
when 


Tennessee's Carl Pickens and 
Irish fullback Jerome Bettis will 
display their talents. 
Bettis, a late addition to the race, has rumbled for 824 yards on 128 carries for a 6.4 average. The sophomore also has 13 receptions for 151 yards for an 11.6 average. 
With 12 rushing and four re­ceiving touchdowns, Bettis leads the Irish in scoring with 16 TDs and needs only two more to tie Allen Pinkett's single-season record of 18 in 1983 and '84. He should become the fourth Irish player ever to rush for 1,000 yards in a season. 
To strengthen his spot in the Heisman race, Bettis needs a stellar performance against the Volunteers and must add con­siderably to his 975 all-purpose yards. 
On the Volunteers' side, junior wide receiver Carl Pickens was an early favorite for the trophy. Pickens has 38 receptions for 702 yards and an 18.5 average per catch. He has averaged 42.1 yards on his 16 career touchdown receptions. 
While Florida quarterback Shane Matthews has impressive statistics, the exposure, or lack thereof, of Gator football hasn't helped his chances. 
But with Weldon and Florida State facing Miami on Nov. 16 and sixth-ranked Florida on Nov. 30, the Heisman, probably with only average perfor­mances, will be his for the tak­ing. 


HEISMAN HOPEFULS 

Desmond Howard, WR, Michigan The clear favorite ... has amassed over 1,000 total offensive yards this season and scored 19 touchdowns .•• Casey Weldon, QB, Florida State 
8

An injury that kept him out of last Saturday's game against Louisville · ·. f ~ could hurt his chances ... 
. 'I' 

~ Shane Matthews, QB, Florida -~ Has blossomed in Coach Steve Spurrier's system ... has completed ~ over 61 percent of his passes this season ... 
Terrell Buckley, CB, Florida State 
8

The best defensive hopeful for the Heisman this season ... has picked . off eight passes this season, returning two for IDs... " 
® 
'I' 
Vaughn Dunbar, RB, Indiana The leading candidate from the runmng back pos1tion ... has already rushed for over 1 ,000 yards this season in eight games ... 
Jeff Blake, QB, East Carolina A sleeper candidate ... has the third highest quarterback rating in the country ... 
~ 


Jerome Bettis, RB, Notre Dame Another candidate who has risen from the ranks of the unknown ... is third in the nation in scoring with 96 points ... 
Gino Torretta, QB, Miami .. Carrying on the tradition of "Quarterback U." ... key to his chances will be • ,)\_ • November 16th showdown against Florida State... .:_~ 
Russell White, RB, California Has struggled through early-season injuries ... is among nation's leaders in scoring and rushing ... 
Carl Pickens, WR, Tennessee A dangerous receiver, his numbers are down due to constant double coverage by Volunteers' opponents ... 
The Observer/Rene Ferran 
Irish Football-'91 

page4 Friday, November 8, 1991 
Volunteers and Irish provid a high-octane matchup 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Were Notre Dame located in a temperate zone, Saturday's matchup with Tennessee could be a offensive exhibition. Both teams bring high-octane offenses into Notre Dame Stadium. and last-year's 34-29 Irish win was an explosive nail-biter. 
However, with a predicted high in the mid-30s on game day, offensive fires could be smothered by northern Indiana's early winter. 
Tennessee runs a pass-oriented offense which scored a season-high 52 points in last week's defeat of intrastate rival Memphis State. 
However, due to the low temperatures in South Bend this weekend, the Vols could be forced to use their running game, led by freshman sensations Aaron Hayden and James Stewart. 
Hayden gained a Tennessee season-high 169 yards in last weekend's win, and has compiled 440 yards on the year, while Stewart has gained 416 yards. 
Junior wideout Carl Pickens, a preseason Heisman Trophy candidate whose stellar season has been overshadowed by one Desmond Howard (of an unnamed school to the north of South Bend), leads the Volunteer passing game into battle. 
Pickens dazzled the Irish in 1990, catching a Tennessee-record 13 passes for 163 yards. This season, Pickens leads the Southeastern Conference in receiving with 38 catches, including a seven-reception, 145­yard effort when matched agai~t Florida defensive back Will White. 
The Irish will try to stop Pickens with a secondary which returns three starters from the unit which allowed Tennessee's Andy Kelly 399 yards passing in 1990. 
"The key people that make them go are Kelly and Pickens and their offensive line," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. "We don't have a chance if it's a high-scoring game." 
Despite their strength in these areas, the Volunteers would seem to have lost some punch from their offense since last fall, especially • after losing receiver Alvin Harper • 
and offensive lineman Antone Davis to the NFL. .· 
The Volunteers have had some difficulty filling these holes in their offensive fabric, but have found capable patches on the offensive line in guard Tom Myslinski and center John Fisher, each of whom 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey (top)/The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz (lower) Pictured in action last season against Notre Dame, Tennessee 

quarterback Andy Kelly (top) and return specialist Dale Carter's(lower .____________________________. 
Notre Dame 
Numerical Roster 
Name Pos Ht Wt 

2 Saddler, LeShaneCB 5-11 193 45 McDonald, D.** OLB 6-4 240 2 Lanigan, Craig FB 5-10 187 46 Ratigan,Brian** ILB 6-5 226 3 Mirer, Rick.. QB 6-2 215 47 Berich, Pete* ILB 6-1 225 4 Graham, Tracy DB 5-11 183 48 Farren, John ILB 5-11 194 4 Poorman, George** OB 6-1 191 49 Peterson, A.* OLB 6-1 214 5 Culver, Rodney*** TB 5-10 226 50 Stec, Greg DT 6-3 235 5lalli, Mike CB 5-11 200 51 Tyner, Stuart OG 6-5 268 6 Bettis, Jerome* FB 5-11 247 52 Holden, Germaine OLB 6-4 240 8 Johnson, Clint FL 5-8 179 54 Goheen, Justin ILB 6-3 220 9 Burris, Jeff* FS 6-0 194 55 lytle, Dean OLB 6-3 221 10 Jarrell, Adrian* Fl 6-0 194 56 Gibson, Oliver OLB 6-3 228 11 Lozano, Rick TB 5-10 189 57 Mannelly, B. DT 6-4 279 12 Failla, Paul QB 6-3 185 58 Nau, Jeremy ILB 6-4 225 12 Guerrera, Jim QB 5-11 175 59 Johnson, lance*C 6-2 260 13 Carter, Tom* CB 5-11 186 59 Hickey, Karl C 6-1 212 13 Johnson, Matt QB 5-10 191 60 Kuechenberg, ErikiLB 6-2 215 14 Griggs, Ray** FL 6-1 195 61 Ruddy, Tim C 6-3 275 14 Pope, Stephan SS 6-3 196 62 Lacheta, Chet OG 6-2 279 15 McDougal, Kevin QB 6-2 182 63 Beckwith, Jason OG 6-1 237 15 O'Neill, Mike FB 5-8 189 64 Rausch, Peter DT 6-5 275 16 Sexton, Jim*** P 6-0 189 65 Knapp, Lindsay* OT 6-6 271 16 Parenti, Chris QB 5-11 191 66 Norman, Todd OT 6-6 289 17 Moscardelli, ChrisSE 6-1 174 67 Zataveski, Mark OL 6-7,~80 18 MoriartyI Trevor SE 6-1 176 68 RineyI Jeff OL 6-5 235 r, 19 Swenson, Mark Fl 5-8 152 70 McGlinn, Mil«f"OTEFS260:. 20 Scruggs, Martin FL 6-1 192 71 Gibson,Jlelt)ertOL 6="1~3 21 Smith, Rod*** CB 6-0 186 72 Leahy/%an o~~~25o 21 Leonard, Rob K 6-1 188.. . 73 .Hall. Justi~··V>oT 6-4 297 22 Wooden, Sean RB 6-(i 1?5··----4 74 J""urko\ri6, Mirko,"'**OG 6-4 289 22 Augeri, John-PauiSS 5"t~ 7S:!~~Aa~n\OG 6-4 280 23 Boyd, Walter*** FB 5-10 204 76 McGL)ire;-Genet*C 6-4 286 24:S_tafford, Charles QB-{)-1 187 77 Stoker-.lcpd, ri;T.,.6.~_3 2"71·· .. _ 24 Bergi1'Tafln..JQn ILB-"S'~o 202 78 Halter, JorBan OT-6.~?~---· 25 Moore, LaRon RB 5-9 180 i~:Young, Tyler DL, G-4 25cr----.:j ~~ · 26 Davis, Greg*** SS 6-0 204 80 McBride,,!Oscar n.: 6-5 242 26 Marsh, Drew K 6-0 191 81 Jones.,lric** C1T ~:.e 250 28 Hentrich, Craig** KIP 6-1 196 ----82.P.olfard, William~-~--6-4 220 29 Lane, Greg* CB 5-9 176 83 Smith, Tony** SE ~2:19.,. _ 30 Smith, Nick** OLB 6-2 219 84 Smith, lrv** TE 6-5 23~ . 31 DuBose, D.** ILB 6-2 234 84 Baker, Jeff FL 5-11 174 32 Clark, Willie* TB 5-11 177 85 Hughes, Robert TE 6-6 246 32 Donahue, JamesiLB 6-2 209 86 Brown, Derek TE 6-6 252 33 Covington, John*FS 6-1 202 87 Dawson, Lake SE 6-1 200 33 Hollister, Chet FS 6-2 186 88 Bakich, Huntley ILB 6-3 21 0 34 Zellars, Ray RB 6-0 203 88 Warren, Clarke Fl 5-10 169 34 Meter, Brian CB 5-9 173 89 McGill, Karl* OLB 6-3 221 35 Mihalko, Ryan**" FB 6-2 232 90 Hamilton, Brian DT 6-5 254 36 Sample, Jeremy ILB 6-1 205 92 Taliaferro, John OLB 6-4 225 36 Fuentes, David FB 5-9 198 92 Bruening, Willie ILB 5-10 209 37 Davis, Travis RB 6-0 180 93 Kordas, Jim OL 6-5 240 38 Scianna, Randy ILB 6-0 224 94 Fleurima, ReggieDT 6-4 250 39 Robinson, MarvinCB 5-9 173 95 Bryant, Junior** DT 6-4 263 40 Brooks, Tony*** TB 6-2 223 96 deManigold, M.* DT 6-4 266 41 Brooks, Reggie* TB 5-8 200 97 Young, Bryant* DT 6-3 256 42 Becton, Lee RB 5-11 185 98 Profit, J.D. DT 6-0 251 
99 Ridgley, Troy* NT 6-4 265 *indicates lettermen The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado 
makes up for a relative lack of size photo) will pose a sizable challenge for the Irish defense. 
with quickness. Wingbacks Craig Faulkner and 
J.J. McCleskey have combined for a total of 46 receptions to partially fill the void left by Harper's departure. 
Despite its continued success, however, the Volunteer passing attack is the main focus of the Irish defense this week. Holtz has declared his wishes for a suffocating defense, and the Irish will try to live up to the task Saturday. 
After increasingly impressive performances as the 1991 season has progressed, Holtz professes a strong belief in the abilities of his secondary. 
Yet while the Notre Dame sec­ondary has no definite leader, the Volunteers return All-American safety Dale Carter. Carter is one of 20 returnees from the Volunteers' defense of 1990, which ranked second in the nation in yards allowed. 
Carter doubles as the Volunteers' return man. The senior averages 22.1 yards on kickoff returns, but has faltered on punt returns, where he averages 
6.7 yards on 18 runba.cks. 
Besides Carter, linebackers Ernest Fields and Darryl Hardy lead the Volunteers into defense of their goal line. 
Fields leads Tennessee with 7 4 total tackles, while Hardy has 50 tackles, two interceptions, and two blocked kicks (one field goal, one punt) one the 1991 season. 

Tony Smith William Pollard RCB 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 
,, SE 
Floyd Miley Steve Session
TENNESSEE DEFENSE 

tllll!fi ~~dsay KnaPfJ 
Jl 
ROEl~ Jordan Halter Chuck Smith Todd Kelly 

Jl 
RLB 

Earnest Fields Ben Talley FS
tllll!fi 
:on Taylor

FB 
Dale Carter Jerome Bettis l~ TimRuddy David Bennett • 
ROT Jl J.J. Sur1as Carey Bailey 
i l I. iL ael. l 

MLBJ 
l
TB Rick Mirer Shan WalkerRodney Culver Paul Failla ..TG Reggie lngrimTony Brooks Kevin McDougal Mirko Jurkovic ·~ ~rk Fletcher George Poorman Peter Rausch -,.~ Kendrick Jones 

LDT Jl
t.a. 
Shazzon Bradley Kevin Mays rr 
K 
Justin Hall Craig Hentrich 
Todd Norman 

•
Jl 
l 
p 


LLB LCB Jeremy Uncoln Tracy Smith 
Craig Hentrich FL Darryl Hardy Jim Sexton LDE Eric Riffer
lake Dawson ..
Ray Griggs TE 
Chris Mims 
I
Derek Brown Kacy Rodgerslrv Smith 
Jl
t.a. 
The Observerl8rendan Regan 

Irish Football '91 

Friday, November 8, 1991 pageS 
Tennessee 
Numerical Roster 
Name Pas Ht Wt 
1 Davis, Ronald WR 5-11 197 2 Matthews, Steve QB 6-4 207 3 Smith, Tracy RB 5-9 190 4 Faulkner, Craig WR 5-11 175 5 Lewis, Roderick DB 6-3 197 6 McCleskey, J.J. DB 5-8 167 7 Julian, Jason WR 5-9 8 Kelly, Andy QB 46 Ritter, Eric LB 6-3 232 47 Dilemma, Bill RB 5-10 205 48 Surlas, J.J. DT 6-4 260 50 Myslinski, Tom OG 6-3 285 51 Fisher, Tom C 6-4 272 
raig C 6-2 226 6-0 260 

Pickens following Vol tradition 
Multi-talented wide receiver threatens Irish secondary 
track team and has cleared over 
seven feet. 
With his great ability, Pickens 

has become known as a game-­
breaker. Pickens has totaled 16 
touchdowns in his career, aver­
aging 42.2 yards per score. This 
year he hooked up with Kelly 
for an 87-yard touchdown pass 
against Auburn, setting a school 
record for the longest pass play. 
Pickens also snagged a Kelly 
pass for a 66-yard score in the 
same game. Kickoff returns are 
another specialty of Pickens, as 
he raced 93 yards for a score 
against the Louisiana State 
Tigers in 1989. 
"Pickens has great speed, but 

he doesn't look particularly 
quick, probably because of his 
size," commented Irish coach 
Lou Holtz. "He has good body 
control, and he has excellent 
balance. When you have the 
size that he has, running down 
the field with great speed, he 
shakes a lot of people off. 
"I think Pickens is a very, very 

dangerous receiver. I don't feel 
any different going against 
Pickens than we did against 
Desmond Howard-they both 
can break the game open." 
Carl has racked up some stats in three seasons of Tennessee football, including All-SEC honors in 1990. In 1989, Pickens played both receiver and free safety, being on~ of the few players today to play both ways. In his three years of playing free safety in high school, Pickens collected 15 interceptions, and picked off four more passes his freshman year before concentrating solely on offense. 
He has collected 1,700 yards on 98 receptions in his career at receiver, which ranks him seventh on the aU-time receiv­ing list at Tennessee. At pre­sent, he leads the SEC in recep­tion yards (702), yards per game (100.3), and catches per game (5.43). 
Against Notre Dame last year, Pickens picked apart the Irish secondary. Pickens grabbed 13 balls (a school record) for 163 yards in the Vols' losing effort. Notre Dame will try to slow Pickens, but every team facing Tennessee this year has tried to stop the pre-season All­American, usually with unsuccessful results. 
Right now, Pickens is in the hunt for Heisman Trophy, as he and Howard are the premier receivers in the race. Many people think Pickens is at least as good as Howard, if not better. 
"I can't imagine him not being in the top three in the Heisman Trophy voting," praised ESPN analyst Mike Gottfried. "He makes you change your entire defensive game plan." 
"I wouldn't trade him for anyone," exclaimed Volunteer quarterback Andy Kelly...1 know. Carl is an exceptional athlete. He has exceptional hands. He makes my job so much easier." 
When the Volunteers enter Notre Dame Stadium this Saturday, they will look to number 15 for the big play. The Irish defense, however, hopes to limit Carl to slim pickins' and shut down the big play. 
By ANTHONY KING Assistant Sports Editor 
Following in the tradition of Willie Gault, Alvin Harper, and other great receivers at "Wide Receiver U." is Heisman candi­date Carl Pickens. 
Pickens, a talented receiver with exceptional size and talent, is writing himself into the record books at Tennessee and into the minds of NFL scouts. 
Pickens, a junior from Murphy, North Carolina, has the natural talent to make him one of the most dangerous players in college football. Standing 6-3 and 200 pounds, Pi~kens is a big target for quarterback Andy 
Carl Pickens 
Kelly. He can get airborne when he needs to, which makes him doubly dangerous. Carl is a high jumper for for the Tennessee 


, Keith RB 6-0 208 34 Fisher, Armandos LB 6-1 223 36 Fletcher, Mark DB 5-11 206 38 Tullis, Jeff DT 6-1 260 39 Banks, Randy DB 6-0 209 40 Bradley, Shazzon DT 6-1 255 41 Ingram, Reggie LB 6-2 247 44 Brunson, Mario RB 6-1 250 45 Walker, Shan LB 6-0 224 
*indicates lettermen 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
last season, stands seventh on the Vol all-time reception list. 
Kenneth Campbell ~ &. 
Mario Brunson · 
Ill/IIi; \ 
~ohn Fisher
,, i~ 1.. l i a. Brian Spivey 
TB QB Aaron Hayden Andy Kelly James Stewart Heath Shuler 
·--RGMike Stowell Bubba Miller 
WB 
t.a. 
Craig Faulkner 
J.J. McCleskey
K 
John Becksvoort 
~ ~trick Lenoir 
Joey Chapman 
~ James Warren 
t.a.
p Tom Hutton Joey Chapman 
se 
Cart Pickens Cory Fleming 
t.a.-­
67 Bell, David OT 6-3 249 ?-O~stofl, Chris OG 6-2 295 (n"W!Ison, James DE 6-3 254 ~_nay, Bernard OT 6-6 76 Todd, Robert TE 77 Gerar~~~erg 
85 Morris, Horace DE 6-3 230 86 Dutton, Cliff WR 5-11 177 87 Hardy, Darryl LB 6-3 220 88 Spivey, Jeremy LB 6-3 227 89 Reeves, Von TE 6-2 248 91 Fuhler, Tom DT 6-4 285 93 Mims, Chris DE 6-6 261 96 Mays, Kevin DT 6-4 267 97 Todd, Robert TE 6-5 258 98 Stone, Cory DE 6-2 250 99 Rodgers, Kacy DE 6-3 253 
The Observer/ Ann-Marie Conrado 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
ennessee wide r~eiverCarl Pickens, sho~n in action again~ the lr~h 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 
TENNESSEE OFFENSE 
NO'I'RE DAME 
DEFENSE 
FB 
(~ TE
l Mark Adams Von Reeves 
Ll 
· --LT
Bernard Dafney
t. ~ 
Rodney Gordon 
LG Tom Myelinski Chris Alston 
~ 

SLB Demetrius DuBose Brian Ratigan 
NT .J1 
John Taliaferro Junior Bryant 

~ 

MLB Pete Bereich Jeremy Nau 
.Jl
LE Troy Ridgley Jim Flanigan 
~ 

OLB John Covington Greg Davis 
LE .J1 
Devon McDonald K.McGill 


FCB Jeff Burris Marvin Robinson 
Jl 

FS Willie Clark 
G. Poorman 
J1 
ss 
Rod Smith LeShane Saddler 

.I 1 . 

BCB Tom Carter Greg Lane 
.11 
Irish Football '91

page 6 Friday, November 8, 1991 
Confusion reigns over muddled bowl game picture 
By DAVE DIETEMAN "It's not impossible that we 16-the same day that Notre 30 against San Diego State. happen. Florida State must de­Sports Editor could have every major confer­Dame will face Penn State in This weekend, Miami is at feat Miami, and Florida State ence winner in the country and State College. Pa. Should the home against the Mountaineers must hold on to defeat the 
With only games against every other major independent Seminoles defeat the of West Virginia, while Florida Gators. Tennessee, Penn State and with one loss," said Rosenthal. Hurricanes, they still must face State hosts South Carolina. In this scenario, the Irish Hawaii remaining on the Notre "If the season ended up this another intra-state rival-the The number two Huskies must (presumably 11-1) could face Dame schedule, the time for way. it would be a very unstable sixth-ranked Florida Gators. play at Oregon State Nov. 16 the undefeated and top-rankedbowl speculation has arrived. position. but it would also be a After a week off, the Seminoles and Washington State in Seattle Seminoles in the Fiesta Bowl for 
Notre Dame Athletic Director kind of Christmas holiday for travel to Gainesville to take on Nov. 23 in their season finale. the national championship. Dick Rosenthal, who will soon the bowls because there would the Gators Nov. 30. The If the Irish dream of playing The problem is what would be meeting with head coach Lou be so many teams to choose Hurricanes, meanwhile, travel for the national championship 
happen if Florida State falls to Holtz and Executive Vice­from." to Boston College Nov. 23 and January 1 is to come to pass, Florida. The Orange Bowl would President Father E. William 
Florida State faces Miami Nov. finish the season at home Nov. several things very likely must 
see BOWLS I page 8
Beauchamp, knows this: there is a chance that the Irish will be playing for the national cham­pionship in January. 
"We are clearly still playing 
~ one game at a time." said ROSf. BOWL OERGL.E Rosenthal. "With our schedule. t5ltloha~owl that is all you can do. But after 

Freedom Bowl
the Penn State game we will j~_ ~ have to make some decisions. It PJ\Sr4.0ENA 


TOURNAMENT
depends on where we are. OF ROSES' 
1991-92 Bowl Schedule 
"We would like to play the 
Date Bowl Kickoff Site number one team if we have 

December 14 California Raisin 4 p.m. Fresno, Calif. December 25 Eagle Aloha 3:30p.m. Honolulu, Hawaii 
that opportunity-that is what 

December 27 Freedom 9 p.m. Anaheim, Calif. 
Notre Dame has traditionally 

December 28 Blockbuster 9 p.m. Miami, Fla. 
done. We might or might not 

December 29 Independence 8 p.m. Shreveport, La. 
have that opportunity. But there 

December 29 Liberty Football Classic 8 p.m. Memphis, Tenn. 
could be a few different 

December 29 Mazda Gator 8 p.m. Jacksonville, Fla. opponents for us. I think that 
December 30 Thrifty Car Rental Holiday 8 p.m. San Diego, Calif. Notre Dame's games have been 
December 31 John Hancock 12:30 p.m. El Paso, Texas December 31 Domino's Copper 8 p.m. Tucson, Ariz. 
convincing enough that we 

January I Peach II :30 a.m. Atlanta, Ga. 
would be an attractive option to 

January I Hall of Fame I p.m. Tampa, Fla. 
one of the major bowls. We 

January I Mobil Cotton I :30 p.m. Dallas, Texas 
definitely feel good that a bowl 

January I Florida Citrus I :30 p.m. Orlando, Fla. 
game is in our future." 

January I Fiesta 4 p.m. Tempe, Ariz. Confusing what might have 
January I Rose 5 p.m. Pasadena. Calif. been an otherwise easily pre­
January _I Federal Express Orange 8 p.m. Miami. Fla. January I USF&G Sugar 8:30p.m. New Orleans. La. 
dictable bowl picture is the fact 
All starting times are Eastern Standard and subject to change. 
that only three undefeated teams remain in Division I right now, and two of the three-top­ranked Florida State and num­Mobil 

~ .·• :..,..:._,.,.:...:

ber three Miami-face each Cotton Bowl 
")Pt:.\t'll ,..__ ,..c._
.~ .. ~7 

other. The other team-second­....-80\\'...... . ·. ··­
Classic[Q --. -'-~­
ranked Washington-could possibly cruise into the Rose Bowl undefeated. 





NOBODY 
KNOWS 
LIKE 
®DOMINO'S.m 
HovvYou Like Pizza At Home. 

WIN FREE PIZZA! 
ORDER THIS WEEK AND YOU'RE REGISTERED TO WIN A FREE PIZZA EVERYDAY FOR THE REST OF THE SEMESTER! THE SIZE YOU ORDER IS THE SIZE PIZZA YOU MAY WIN. 
r---------------,I
I 16" PARTY SIZE 
I I 
I ONE TOPPING PIZZA I 
I I 
I I II. $6.99 I I 
Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participating st<?res only.I Customer pays applicabl.e sales tax. Not vahd w1th. a~y I1 other offer. Linuted delivery area to ensure safe dnvmg. I
r--------------,
I 14" LARGE I 
I 

ONE TOPPING PIZZA :
I I I 

I II. $5.99 ! 
Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participatin.g st<?res only. 1I Customer pays applicable sales t:1x. Not vahd wnh anyL other offer. Lim1tcd delivery area to ensure safe driving. 1
r---------------. 
1 12" MEDIUM 1 
: ONE TOPPING PIZZA : 
: Bl. $4.99 : 
~ Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participating stores only. 1I Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valid with any 1 L other offer. Limned delivery area to ensure safe driving. .J 
Irish Football '91

Friday, November 8. 1991 page 7 
Offensive fireworks light up ND-Tennessee series 
By ANTHONY KING Assistant Sports Editor 
The series only dates back to 1978, but the football tradition in both schools runs deep. Notre Dame and Tennessee, two perennial powerhouses, will meet for the last time in this . series on Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Irish have played Tennessee a total of three times, winning on two of those occasions. The opening meet­ing, featuring Irish quarterback Joe Montana. was a 31-14 
AT AZAR'S 
Now U1at you've dafl~.-·!d 
the night away, you need to satisfy those midnight 


munchies. So check out the new LATE NITE menu at Azar's. 
It features lots of great food at great prices: 
• 
Five Fluffy Omelettes 

• 
Six Moonlight Breakfasts 

• 
Four Starlight Sandwiches 

• 
Eight Dreamy Desserts 

• 
More than 10 other Sides and Beverages 


The next time you•re not qu1te to call it a night, heao to the nearest Azar's Big Boy Family 
Restaurant for the all-
new LATE NITE menu. It'll tame the Midnight Munchies. 
Ap~tg· 

BigBoy 
Family Restaurants 

beating of the Volunteers in Notre Dame Stadium. The fol­lowing year. an unranked Tennessee squad returned the favor with a 40-18 shellacking of the 13th ranked Irish. 
The series was dormant until it picked up again last year in Knoxville. The number one ranked Irish journeyed into Neyland Stadium to face a tough and talented number nine Volunteer team. The 97,000 plus fans that packed Neyland were expecting an exciting con­test. and they got exactly what they had anticipated. 
Tennessee struck first in this offensive contest, getting on the board with a 46-yard Greg Burke field goal. Notre Dame. on the ensuing possession, took the lead in a flash. Quarterback Hick Mirer found a wide open Rod Culver along the right sideline and Culver rambled from the 35 to the 15 un­scathed. 
Strong safety Mark Fletcher came up to meet Culver at the 15, but he merely bounced off the big fullback. Culver rambled into the end zone, giving the Irish a 7-3 advantage. 
The Vols closed the gap to one point on a 22-yard field goal by Burke, and the second quarter scoring was limited to a lone field goal by Craig Hentrich. Hentrich hit on a 26-yard attempt to give the Irish a 10-6 lead going into half time. 
The second half was an of­fensive explosion however. Tennessee came out on their 
opening possession and re­gained the lead, as hurler Andy Kelly hit Vol star Carl Pickens for 33-yards, setting up Tony Thompson's 10-yard touchdown run. 
The Irish struck back quickly, as Ricky Watters took it up the middle and raced 66 yards for a score, giving the Irish a 1 7-13 lead. The Volunteers regained the lead on a 32-yard strike from Kelly to Alvin Harper. Harper held on despite being blanketed by defensive back Todd Lyght. 
Notre Dame began the fourth quarter trailing 20-17, but Rocket Raghib Ismail returned a punt for 38-yards to the Tennessee 11. The Vol defense, however, stiffened up and forced the Irish into a field goal. Hentrich converted to knot the score at 20. 
On the next possession, Tennessee grabbed the lead again, as Burke connected on his third field goal of the day to give the Volunteers a 23-20 edge. Ricky Watters again came up big for the Irish, scampering in from 10-yards out with 5:30 left in the contest. This score was set up by another Rod Culver reception, this one for 20-yards. 
Tennessee got the ball trailing 27-23. Kelly again came out throwing, but this time was intercepted by linebacker Donn Grimm on the Irish 42-yard line. On the second play of this drive, Rick Mirer gave the hand-off to Rocket Ismail. The Rocket broke 
• 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Irish tailback Ricky Watters breaks free for a chunk of his career-high 174 yards last season against Tennessee. Watters also scored two 
touchdowns. 
it outside and shot down the sideline outracing three defenders. Ismail never looked back and took it the distance for the score. After the extra point, Notre Dame led 34-23 with 3:33 left. 
The Volunteers were down, but not out as "Machine Gun" Kelly continued his aerial bar­rage. Kelly started his drive at his own 32, and it only took him 
1:49 and ten plays to hit paydirt. The score came on a 12-yard pass to Harper over Rod Smith, cutting the Irish ad-
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Head coaches Lou Holtz (left) of Notre Dame and Johnny Majors (right) of Tennessee excnange greetings 
before last season's showdown in Knoxville. That day, 9l,OOU fans at Neyland Stadium watched the Irish 
take a 2-1 edge in the series between the two schools. 

vantage to 34-29. The Vols at­
tempted a two-point conversion, 
but failed. 
It was obvious with only 1:44 left that Tennessee would be at­tempting an onside kick. The Irish were prepared for it, but not for the astroturf bounce that kicker Greg Burke would get. Vol star Carl Pickens leapt into the air and stole the ball away from the Irish at the Tennessee 46. 
The Volunteer offense took the field, looking for a touchdown and the win. Kelly connected on three straight passes, to get the -., Vols to the Irish 20. But the old adage of going to the well once too often certainly fit the play that followed. 
Kelly dropped back and threw the corner route that he had beaten Smith on just a minute earlier. Smith figured it was the same pattern, and broke to where he expected the ball to be. On the goal line, Smith reached up and snagged the Kelly pass and returned it to the 
17. The Irish ran out the final 46 seconds to preserve the victory. 
Ricky Watters had a career day, running for 174 yards and two touchdowns. Andy Kelly had an excellent day, burning the Irish secondary for 399 yards and two touchdowns. 
The Saturday matchup should be another exciting game, but the teams will be hard pressed to duplicate last year's thriller. 
Do the wave at the 
arf. 
Doing the ..wave.. at Notre Dame football games is practically an institution. And so is going to the Wharf Restaurant for the freshest seafood, beef and chicken entrees in town! Notre Dame fans have been enjoying the Wharf's fabulous lunches and dinners for 
years! And our salad buffet and Sunday Brunch have reputations that are second to none! When you need to satisfy a winning appetite, follow the wave to the Wharf Restaurant. 
300 East Colfax at the River 234-44n 

----------------------~-----------------------.._-­
page 8 Friday, November 8, 1991 
DuBose 
continued from page 2 Notre Dame also leads people to believe that he is cocky or arrogant. "Whenever people call me cocky, I laugh at that because it's funny-they really don't know me," he said. "Whatever you want to do in life, you have to put your mind to it and do it on your own, because anyone who doesn't have confidence in himself won't accomplish what you want in life. "People tend to listen to what other people say about them, and it sidelines them a lot. But I believe in myself, and I know I can do whatever I put my mind to, and whether people call that cocky or arrogant, I don't listen to that." What DuBose does listen to are calls for help in the com­munity. He is active in Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Seattle, 
and somehow finds time in his busy schedule to work with the South Bend chapter whenever possible. 
When asked on his football 
Bowls 
continued from page 6 
dearly love to have the Seminoles playing in their home state, and a matchup with the Big Eight champion could be a lock for the 'Noles. 
Yet if the Seminoles have one 
Each week during football season, The Observer sports staff, AI Lesar of the South Bend Tribune and a guest prognosticator predict the outcomes of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. Home teams are in CAPS. 
FSU 28 over So. Carolina 
Wash. 16.5 over SO. CAL. 
MIAMI27 over W. Virginia 
FLA. 12.5 over Georgia 
Alabama 9 over LSU 
Penn State 22 over M'LND 
Cal. 32 over OREGON ST. 
IOWA 7 over Indiana 
Nebrsk.14.5 over KANSAS 
Clemson 7 over UNC 
E. Carolina 3 over S. MISS. Colo. 27.5 over OKLA. ST. 
N.C. ST. 3.5 over VIrginia 
profile sheet what he never thought he would do when he was growing up, he answered, "Take the opportunity to give back to young people." 
"Whatever I do now is preparing me to be a good fa­ther, because that's the only true impression we have on this world and on society, is on kids," DuBose explained. "Young black males are a dying breed, and it's important for us to contribute something special to our society, and it's some­thing we overlook sometimes. 
"Athletes don't seem to un­derstand that they're in the public eye, and whether they want it or not, society depicts all athletes as role models. We have to accept the challenge, and go out and live our lives accordingly." 
His coaches have no doubt that DuBose will do just that. 
"He'll be successful, no matter whether he plays a lick in the NFL," Darnell praised. "I expect to see him in a courtroom 
someday, and I pity the soul that he's battling against." For now, though, just pity his opposition on the playing field. 
loss, the Gators could very likely have the inside track to the SEC title and a national championship-provided that Washington loses sometime. Quite simply, if Florida State falls to Florida and Washington loses either in the Rose Bowl (likely to Michigan) or in one of its final three games, the championship picture will be­come clouded. 
Dave Dieteman AI Lesar 
South Bend Sports Editor Tribune
65-50-5 
63-52-5 
Seminoles Seminoles Huskies Huskies Hurricanes Hurricanes Gators Gators 
Irish Football '90 

~ 
; 
j 
Huskies edge ever closer to top spot in poll 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 
Miami watched helplessly on its week off as Washington overtook the number-two spot in this week's National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll. 
The undefeated Huskies, 44-16 winners over Arizona State, even wrenched four first-place votes away from the top-ranked Seminoles of Florida State, 40-15 victors against Louisville. 
Michigan, Notre Dame, and Florida held their positions in this week's poll, while Alabama moved ahead of Penn State, breaking last week's tie at sev­enth. Other shake-ups in the top ten include California moving up 


1 
2 
=== 
4 

1113 10127 T-t!..... ••I Rec:. Pta. Nutaame 
1. (1)  Florida State [26)  9-0  721  11/9 vs. South Carolina  
2. (3)  Washington [4)  8-0  686  1119 at Southern Cal  
3. (2)  Miami.  7-0  676  11/9 vs. West Virginia  
4. (4)  Michigan  7-1  639  1119 vs. Northwestern  
5. (5)  Notre Dame  8-1  598  1119 vs. Tennessee  
6. (6)  Florida  7-1  591  1119 vs. Georgia  
7. (7)  Alabama  7-1  525  1119 at Louisiana State  
8. (8)  Penn State  7-2  516  1119 at Maryland  
9. (10)  California  7-1  507  1119 at Oregon State  
10. (11)  Iowa  7-1  461  11 19 vs. Indiana  
11. (9)  Nebraska  6·1·1  421  1119 at Kansas  
12. (12)  Texas A&M  5-1  403  1 1/16 vs. Arkansas  
13. (14)  Tennessee  5-2  365  11/9 at Notre Dame  
14. (15)  Clemson  5-1-1  335  1119 at North Carolina  
15. (17)  East Carolina  7-1  296  11/9 at So. Mississippi  
16. (16)  Colorado  5-2-1  285  11 19 at Oklahoma State  
17. (18)  Syracuse  7-2  253  11/16 vs. Boston College  
18. (19)  N.C. State  7-1  227  11/9 vs. Virginia  
19. (13)  Ohio State  6-2  212  11/9 at Minnesota  
20. (20)  Oklahoma  6-2  190  1119 at Missouri  
21. (21)  Baylor  7-2  1n  11/16 vs. Texas Tech  
22. (22)  Georgia  6-2  120  1 1 19 at Florida  
23. (24)  UCLA  6-2  85  1119 at Stanford  
24. (-)  Indiana  5-2-1  27  1119 at Iowa  
25. (23)  Arkansas  5-3  18  11/9 at Texas Tech  

Others receiving votes: Virginia 14, Illinois 10, TCU 8, Brigham Young 
7. Bowling Green 7, Texas 5. Air Force 5, Northwestern 4. Tulsa 4, North Carolina 3, San Diego State 3, Fresno State 3, Nevada-Reno 2, Kansas State 2, West Virginia 2, Mississippi State1, Buffalo State .5. 
Bold indlcale!l NO opponent 

Schools participating: Alabama, Arizona, Arizona State, Ball State, Brigham Young, Colorado, Columbia, Cornell, Duke, Florida. Florida State, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Miami, Michigan, Nebraska, Notre Dame, Oregon, Oregon State, Penn, Penn State, Purdue, Syracuse, Texas. Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 
two spots to ninth after a 52-30 victory over Southern Cal, and Nebraska dropping one spot after a 19-19 tie with Colorado. 
UCLA climbed to 23rd form 24th. while Arkansas slipped from 23rd to 25th. Indiana worked it's way into the poll at 24th, but the Illini's 22-6 victory over Wisconsin wasn't enough, as Illinois dropped out of the top 25. 



Johnny Majors 
The Volunteers' head coach, in his 24th season in the colle­giate ranks, has compiled a 164-101-10 record and twice won national Coach of the Year honors while at Pittsburgh (1973, 1976). Since taking over at Tennessee in 1977, Majors has a 107-58-8 record and three SEC championships to his credit, including two consec­utive crowns (1989, 1990). 

Andy Kelly 
The 6-3, 211-pound quar­terback is enjoying a stellar senior season. He has com­pleted165 of 256 passes (64.5 percent) for 2,050 yards, as well as nine touchdowns and 14 interceptions. Kelly ranks first in the SEC in individual total offense with 2,079 yards, and ranks second on the all-time Tennessee list with 5,688 total offense yards. 
Earnest Fields 
The 5-11, 239-pound line­backer leads the Volunteers with 74 tackles (47 solo) and has registered 2.5 sacks this season. Fields has also caused two fumbles and recovered an­other. A preseason All-SEC pick by Athlon and Host's SEC Football, he keys a defensive squad that ranks first in the conference in total defense 
(286.1 yards per game). 

Rich Kurz  Missy Conboy  Dave McMahon  Rene Ferran  Anthony King  
Associate  Assistant  Associate  Associate  Assistant Sports  
Sports Editor  Athletic Director  Sports Editor  Sports Editor  Editor  
61-54-5  60-55-5  59-56-5  57-58-5  56-59-5  
Last week's  
guest: 8-6-1  
Seminoles Trojans Hurricanes Gators  Seminoles Trojans Mountaineers Gators  Seminoles Huskies Hu!"ricanes Gators  Gamecocks Huskies Hurricanes Gators  Seminoles Huskies Hurricanes Bulldogs  

Crimson Tide Fighting Tigers Crimson Tide Tigers Crimson Tide Fighting Tigers Fighting Tigers Nittany Lions Terrapins Terrapins Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Terrapins Terrapins Golden Bears Golden Bears Golden Bears Golden Bears Golden Bears Golden Bears Golden Bears Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hoosiers Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Corn huskers Cornhuskers Corn huskers Jayhawks Corn huskers Cornhuskers Jayhawks 
Tigers Tar Heels Tigers Tigers Tigers Tar Heels Tigers Golden Eagles Pirates Golden Eagles Golden Eagles Golden Eagles Pirates Pirates Cowboys Cowboys Buffaloes Cowboys Cowboys Buffaloes Buffaloes 
Wolfpack Wolfpack Cavaliers Wolfpack Wolfpack Wolfpack WolfpackBuckeyes
Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Golden Gophers Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 







