

VOL. XXIII NO. 91 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1991 
1 
.THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MAR'I'S ! 
Blanco, Farmer will meet in election runoff 
By DAVID KINNEY vote in their dorms between 11 said "we wish them both good 
ELECTION RESULTS 
News Writer a.m. and 1 p.m., and 5 p.m. luck." and 7 p.m. OfT-campus students The philosopher king ticket of Elections held Monday for can vote in the LaFortune Kromkowski/Nigro said, "We 
student body president resulted Student Center. want to help the elected into 
in a runoff between the Joe "I would encourage the stu­the 'asistoi' (meaning 'the best 
• BLANCO 35.6% 
Blanco/David Florenzo ticket dent body to think hard and to people') and bring them 'out of 0 FARMER 26.0% 
and the Nicole Farmer/Eric vote," said Ferguson. the cave' into the full realiza­
~ FERGUSON 21.7% 
Griggs ticket. "We're very pleased," said tion that education, racism, and 

0 KROMKOWSKI 12.1%
Blanco/l'lorenzo received Florenzo, candidate for vice the environment are three 

~ OTHER 4.6%
35.65 percent (1334 votes) of president. "We've got the mes­pressing issues on this cam­the vote while Farmer/Griggs sage out that we wanted to get pus." took 25.98 percent (972 votes). out, but we've still got a long "We're not just going to dis­
The remaining votes went to way to go." appear and waft away into 
the ticket Mike Fergu­"We'd like to thank everybody oblivion. The highest good for 
son/Charlie James, who re­for their support," said Farmer. all of the community is still our 
ceived 21.67 percent (811 She encouraged students with concern." 
votes), Mark Kromkowski/Sam questions to contact her. "We'd "And as Pascal say·s," contin­
Nigro, who received 12.08 per­appreciated your vote," she ued Kromkowski, '"Truth is so about class sizes, while 38 per­out of every two students at cent (452 votes), and write-ins continued. obscured nowadays, and lies so cent said that they were not Notre Dame believes that class totaling 4.62 percent (173 "We want the students to well-established, that unless we upset. size has negatively affected votes) of the votes. know," said Farmer, "that we love the truth, we shall never Fifty percent of those re­his/her education," said Student Just under 49 percent of the believe in our platform of recognize it."' sponding agreed that their edu­Body President Rob Pasin. "The student body voted. building on your beliefs. Hope­The voting ballots also in­cation had been negatively af­fact that almost 60 percent of 
Hunoff elections between fully, we're making strides for ... cluded a referendum concern­fected, and 31 percent dis­the student body is upset about Blanco and Farmer will be better student representation." ing class size problems. Fifty­agreed; 20 percent were not the present class size situation held on Wednesday. The format Ferguson and Charlie James eight percent of the voters were sure. will be the same: students can expressed disappointment, but very upset or somewhat upset "I think it's shocking that one 
Allied air war escalates; Basra reported nearly cut off 
DHAIIRAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) joint chiefs chairman Gen. Colin 
affiliate estimated civilian to ground war, Operation -Favored by the desert sun, Powell, both just back from deaths at 6,000 to 7 ,000. Desert Storm's air arm has 
U.S. and allied jets stepped up Saudi Arabia, the president In the Middle East and intensified its attacks on Iraqi the air war Monday with said the air war "will continue elsewhere, the quest for peace positions and supply lines, hundreds more bombing runs for a while." continued. particularly bridges, in the against Iraqi targets. The city As for a ground offensive, Kuwait Theater of Operations of Basra, strategic heart of Bush said, "we're not talking A Soviet envoy, Yevgeny -Kuwait and southern Iraq. Iraq's defense, wa'l believed all about dates." Primakov, ventured into bomb­but cut ofT. In Baghdad, the government battered Baghdad to meet with Brightening skies Monday 
Iraq fired a missile that hit announced it was reaching still Iraqi President Saddam enabled air commanders to Israel early Tuesday. deeper into the Iraqi population OPERATION Hussein on Tuesday about a mount 2,900 sorties over 24 
"We hated to come back, but -into the schools -for teen­DESERT STORM Kremlin initiative to end the hours, hundreds more than on we ran out of bombs," an age soldiers to help "destroy war. In Yugoslavia, any recent day. The U.S exuberant U.S. Air Force pilot the enemies of God and representatives of 15 non­command said 750 missions told reporters on his return humanity." aligned nations began were directed against Iraqi
• Ground war delayed/page 6 
from a bombing run. Also Monday, Iraq's religious considering an Iranian bid to positions in the Kuwait theater, 
As U.S. air commanders affairs minister, Abdullah • U.N. transcript I page 6 mediate an end to the conflict. including 200 against the dug­pressed this "battlefield Fadel, said "thousands" of • Israeli SCUD attack I page 7 in Republican Guard, the Iraqi preparation phase," President civilians have been killed or The Soviets and Iranians say army's elite units. 
• Patriot hits SCUD I page 7 
Bush met with his war advisers wounded in allied bombings. It Iraq must agree to end its 6·
• CNN bomb threat I page 7
to consider ordering American was the first time a senior Iraqi month-old occupation of Basra was again hit hard. troops onto that battlefield -in official had spoken of such high Kuwait, a condition Saddam The southern Iraqi port is both a decisive ground war for civilian losses. The government has rejected. Before heading to headquarters for the Iraqi Kuwait. previously listed 650 civilian Baghdad, Primakov stopped in defense and a transshipment 
Emerging from a White dead. newly returned to New York Tehran to coordinate his point for supplies going to !louse meeting with Defense Peace activist and former U.S. from a week in Iraq, said the activities with the Iranians. troops in southern Iraq and in Secretary Dick Cheney and attorney general Ramsey Clark, chief of the countr¥'s Red Cross Since last week, in a buildup Kuwait, 30 miles to the south. 

Tickets in 'THE BAR' could mean prizes 
By MEG SHUFF there are 2000 Catherine kick-ofT fireworks display over News Writer Elsner chocolate bars randomly St. Mary's lake on April 20 as distributed throughout the well as a nationally known 
For those who have ever dorms and in the dining halls, band (to be named later) to dreamed of finding the golden 59 of which will provide golden play on April 27. ticket in a chocolate bar, An­ticket winners. In addition to the raffle for Tostal '91 and the Student The response has been the top prizes, there will be a Union Board could make that enthusiastic thus far, said raffie for $100. Each day this dream come true. Harvath. "Currently we are week three questions 
THE BAR, taken from the planning on re-ordering pertaining to "Willie Wonka movie "Willie Wonka and the another 500 to 1000 bars and the Chocolate Factory" will Chocolate Factory" is a which will include about 15 appear in the Personals section fundraising project for An­more golden tickets." of The Observer's classified Tostal. Although the recipients The message on the ticket ri­ads. of the ~olden tickets will not vals that of Wonka's famous To qualify for the drawing the explore Wonka's famous fac­bar, with a full set of instruc­questions must be answered tory, they will have the oppor­tions on how to obtain the correctly and turned into the tunity to win a variety of prizes. prizes. Each person who finds a receptionist desk on the second 
Brennan Harvath, the 1991 golden ticket will receive THE floor of LaFortune or the first AnTostal chairman, developed SHIRT and will automatically floor of Haggar College Center the idea over October Break to be entered into a raffie to win a at Saint Mary's. compliment the selling of THE VCR. twelve pizzas from Barn­THE BAR will be on sale on SHIRT earlier in the year. aby's, or a $50 gift certificate to both campuses through Febru­
"Since sales from THE SHIRT the bookstore. ary 1 7. Both raffies will be held were so successful, I wanted to "This is just another fun idea on February 21 at 9 p.m. in the come up with a spin-ofT of that to get people excited for the Library Auditorium. theme, hence, THE BAR." best AnTostal this school has 
Each dorm at Notre Dame ever seen," Harvath said. For more information about and Saint Mary's will have at The success of THE SHIRT THE BAR or AnTostal events least one representative selling tripled this year's AnTostal contact the AnTostal Hotline at the bars for $1 each. Presently budget which will allow for a 239-6171. 
page 2 Tuesday, February 12, 1991 
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

POW bracelet represents freedom's price 
Not a week has gone by that I haven't answered the same question. (No, it's not "Wanna go with me to an SYR?") Most commonly, it's phrased "What is that ugly, silver piece of metal on your 


wrist for?" Anna Marie Instead of having to Tabor . explain another several Asst. SMC Ed1tor hundred times this semester why I wear a Prisoner of War (POW) bracelet, I thought it would be more efficient to reach 12,000 students at once. I bought my bracelet from a ROTC member last September so that I wouldn't forget some friends from home. They had been restationed in San Antonio, Okinawa, Camp Pendleton, and Gary at about the time I left for school. Operation Desert Shield had begun and I didn't want to become mindless of the situation and the intimate connection between it and my friends' lives. Two years ago I became acquainted with several Marine and Army recruiters who worked in the mall with me. The first Marine I ever met wore a shiny silver bracelet that caught my eye. I drilled him with all the questions I get asked today. "Do you know this guy? What does SVN stand for? Are you for war?" Gradually I got to know the recruiters who stopped by to chat everyday. They told me about their families, their pasts, and their jobs. They dispelled this distorted notion I had of a military unit that fought in faraway places in years past. They became individuals. No doubt they grew equally tired of my own big question: Aren't you afraid of dying and losing all that you have? Sgt. Hardin once said, "Yes. But that's why I'm in the military. You have causes that you believe in strongly, like freedom of the press. You cannot have that luxury unless someone is willing to defend it. I am one of those people." Since I live near a major military base, soldiers from different branches would come come the mall. I wondered then if someday one of their names would appear on a POW bracelet. Over Christmas vacation, a new recruit informed me that Sgt. Hardin was going to 
the Desert on Christmas Eve. I never expected 
that someone I know would be called up. I didn't know until that point how final a good­bye can be. This is reality. 
Wearing a POW bracelet is like a constant reminder of what sacrifices have been made for my freedom and what tribulations there will be to preserve it. It is more than a con­versation piece. It is a symbol of"my own patriotism-an understanding of a few rep­resentatives' convictions, who believe in peace as strongly as I do, yet are willing to 
fight so that others don't have to. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff: ProductionNews 

Wendy Cunningham Bradley Galko Megan Junius Systems Gil Gomez 
Sports 

Patrick BarthScott Brutocao 
Graphics Pat Midden 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Chinese activist unable to delay trial 
• BEIJING-A Chinese court today opened the sedition trial of a leading democracy activist who went on a hunger strike in a failed bid to delay the proceedings. Chen Ziming, 38, the director of a private research institute, gave advice behind the scenes to college students whose calls for reform grew into the 1989 nationwide democracy movement. Chen has spent more than a year in jail in solitary confinement and was formally charged with sedition Tuesday, giving the lawyer his family hired less than a week to prepare. 
Lithuania to be independent state 
• VILNIUS, U.S.S.R.-Lithuania's parliament, acknowledging the sweeping approval of a plebiscite on independence, said Monday that a new constitution will describe the republic as an "independent, democratic" state. The parliament voted 116-0, with one abstention, to approve the resolution. It came hours after Lithuanian President Vytaufas Landsbergis said he feared the Kremlin may crack down on his homeland unless the West shows more support. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
Notre Dame Mock Trial will hold a dress rehearsal tonight at 7 p.m. in the Law School Courtroom. Everyone is welcome to come watch the team prepare for the national competition to be held this weekend. 

• 
Prof. Patricia O'Hara, vice president for Student Affairs, and Joe .Cassidy, director of Student Activities, will conduct an open meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. They will discuss issues raised by students of color relating to allotment of space in LaFortune and the use ofTheodore's. 

• 
Sophomore Literary Festival will take place tonight at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 1\vo authors, Diane Wakoski and Reginald McKnight, will lecture and read from their works. Wakoski, a returning guest, has won recognition as a poet and a professor. McKnight, an African-American writer, had work included in The Best American Short Stories of 1989. 


MARKET UPDATE YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 11, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 
200.85

265.53 Million * 4.75 

S&P COMPOSITE 368.58 DOW JONES INDUSTR2,902.23  • IALS t  9.23 71.54  
PRECIOUS METALS  

GOLD f $3.00 to$ 367.10oz. SILVER {7 14.8¢ to$ 3.685/oz. 
Partly cloudy and .cold today with a high around 30. Not as cold tonight, lows 'in 20s. Sunny and mild tomorrow, high 30s. 
H  L  
61  46  
56  39  
27  19  
34  24  
29  19  
66  41  
61  31  
27  18  
82  69  
76  52  
32  22  
37  30  
85  54  
45  32  
76  56  
18  07  
69  45  
36  29  
34  32  
38  31  
57  41  
57  46  
51  29  
68  50  
28  23  
59  37  
36  

NATIONAL 

Usery will mediate Daily News strike 
• NEW YORK-Former U.S. secretary of labor W.J. Usery agreed Monday to union and company requests that he mediate the bitter Daily News strike. Both sides in the Daily News strike, which began Oct. 25, met separately with W. J. Usery last week in Washington to urge him to step in, said union leaders and News Publisher James Hoge. Although the News has published daily during the strike, its circulation has dropped from 
1.09 million to what management says is 600,000. 
First female officer killed in L.A. 
• 
LOS ANGELES-A rookie policewoman caught in a shootout Monday became the•first female Los Angeles police officer killed in the line of duty. Officer Tina Kerbrat, 34, a mother of two who had been on the police force just 10 months, was shot in the head in a patrol car as she stopped to question two men sitting on a sidewalk drinking beer, police said. "There's been a lot of talk about women in combat these days," police Chief Daryl Gates said during a profanity-laced news conference. 

• 
Seniors: Make a year of volunteering one of your options following graduation. Carol McCollester, O.P. '82, representing the Eucharistic Missioners of New Orleans, will be on campus to answer your questions February 11, 12, 13. Library concourse 10-12 noon. esc 1-5 p.m. 

• 
A van drivers training seminar will be offered for all those who have not previously attended and are planning to request use of Center for Social Concern's vans. The course will be offered on Wednesday, Feb. 13 at 5 p.m. and on Thursday, Feb. 14 at 4:30p.m. at the Center. This semifiar is mandatory for all esc van drivers. 

• 
Former transfer students may pick up an application for the 1991 Executive Transfer Orientation Committee at the Student Government office. The deadline for submittal is February 20. If you have questions contact Craig at 232-6933. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1554: Lady Jane Grey, who had been queen of England for nine days, was beheaded after being charged with treason. 

• 
In 1733: English colonists led by James Oglethorpe landed at Savannah, Ga. 

• 
In 1809: Abraham Lincoln, the 16th president of the United States, was born in a log cabin in what is now Larue County, Ky. 

• 
In 1870: Women in the Utah Territory were granted the right to vote. 

• 
In 1909: The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, America's oldest Civil rights organization, was founded. 


, r . ~. ' ·· ·-."'),· 
Tuesday, February 12, 1991 The Observer page 3 


Eaton, Gomez named to Observer 1991 general board 
Sper.lal to The Observer 
Two Notre Dame juniors were appointed to the positions of Managing Editor and Business Manager for The Obsnrver for the 1991-92 publishing year, announced Kelley Tuthill. editor-in-chief-elect. 
Lisa Eaton, a history major with a concentration in gender studies, from Spokane, Wash. has been named Managing Edi­tor, and will succeed John O'Brien, junior. 

sistant. She was promoted to Assistant Production Manager in March, 1990 and was ap­pointed Production Manager in August, 1990. 
"I'm very excited about working for The Observer in this position for next year," she said. "I feel that this could be a stellar year for The Observer and for Notre Dame, and I'm happy to be a part of it." 
Gil Gomez, a finance major, has been named Business Man­The Observer in the spring of 1989, as a Typesetter. lie was promoted to Assistant Systems Manager and Assistant Type­setting Manager in the fall of 1989. 

''I'm looking forward to as­suming my new position," said Gomez. "My past experiences have been very interesting and educational. I am confident the future will be equally reward­ing." 
Both will assume their posi­tions in mid-March, after Spring Break. 

Blessed Mother is subject of four-part discussion series 
By CARRIE DWYER mother is always present and News Writer looks over us as our own blood mother cannot watch over us." 
Various members of the Notre She added, "(Mary} stands out Dame community shared their as the Lady who can argue qui­personal experiences and etly ... because what she does, insights to the Virgin Mary in a she does silently and without a series of talks Monday titled sound." "The Portrait of a Woman: Also speaking was Joseph Notre Dame, Our Mother." Schellinger, a staff member for 
This was the first event in a the Dean of Administration. He four-part series in honor of Our spoke on his own personal faith Lady, the University of Notre for the Virgin Mary, whom he Dame's patroness. considers to be, "the most im­
I>olores Tantoco-Stauder, a portant woman in the history of librarian at the Hesburgh Li-the world." brary and coordinator of the Quoting St. Louis de Montfort, event, spoke of the overwhelm-Schellinger added, "The more ing presence of the Blessed we honor the blessed virgin, Mother in her life. "The the more we honor Jesus Blessed Mother seems to be the Christ." response of God to all of our For Schellinger, it was a per-wishes," she said. sonal tragedy that caused him 
Hecalling her move to Amer-to see the blessed mother with ica from the Philippines, a different perspective. After Stauder said that she "left with his wife was diagnosed with nothing but a rosary in (her) brain atrophy in early 1988, hand." Schellinger said that for the 
Her exp11riences have led her urst time "the Blessed Mother to believe that "The blessed came down next to me and be­

:*~D*I!~NGAL*BOttr~t 
******************** 
~  is looking for enthusiastic individuals to  ~  
~  help with promotions for this year's  ~  
"""' ~ ~  tournament. All interested, meeting WED. FEB 13th 7pm in the Boxing Room at the JACC  iC ~ iC  
"""'  or call  ~  
~  Amv Raczkowski  272-8954  -k  

came my friend." 

Following a visit to Lourdes, France, where the virgin Mary first appeared to St. Bernadette in 1838, Schellinger said that he received a gift from God as he experienced the "miracle of inner peace and acceptance of his wife's fatal disease." 
Donald Conry, a student at Moreau Seminary also spoke on his personal association with Mary. 
For Conry, it was his his own mother's interest in the Blessed Mother that led him to a greater understanding of her contributions and towards a deeper faith in both Our Lady and the Lord. 
"There is no such thing as an autonomous Christian. I can think of no better way to honor God than to honor my fellow Christians," he said. 
Conry added, "Mary main­tained her faith, while never fully understanding the momentous value of what she 
Hamlet PG 
5:00-8:00 
White Fang 
4:45-7:00-9:30 
L.A. Story PO-13 
5:00-7:30-9:45 


is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Ad Design Manager-An enthusiastic and computer­oriented person is needed to use her creative talents to produce high quality and professional ads for Observer clients. Macintosh experience is a plus. 
Art Director-A motivated person is needed to use his creative talents in the areas of both computer graphics and illustrations. Applicants should have examples of illustrations and experience with Macintosh graphics programs. 
Production Manager-An energetic and enthusiastic leader is sought to manage the computer-aided design of the newspaper. Experience with Macintosh desktop publishing programs is preferred. 
Applications should be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 5 pm Friday, Feb.l5. Questions about these positions should be directed to Kelley or Lisa at 239-5303. 


was doing and what she was to accomplish." 
Denis Nolan, a 1970 Notre Dame graduate and director of Queen of Peace Ministries, also shared his personal reflections on Mary. Nolan cited Pope John Paul Il's own efforts to call upon all people to understand the mystery of Mary. 
"When we pray one Hail Mary with love in our heart, she experiences the same joy that she felt when she first heard the words from Gabriel," he said. 
Nolan discussed the many in­credible apparitions and ap­pearances of the Virgin Mary at Medjugorje in Czechoslovakia and at a small village in the Ukraine that caused over 500,000 people to gather there to see and hear the Blessed Mother. 
Michael Sain, a professor of electrical engineering, opened the talks with a brief reading concerning St. Joan of Arc. 
Using St. Joan's accomplish­ments as an example, Sain said, "Joan of Arc became a martyr by watching her own images and by listening to her own voice." 
Sain said that her life exem­plifies the efforts of "many people proceeding in life to­wards goals, trying to achieve what God wants them to achieve." 
He noted that the University's association with the Virgin Mary goes beyond ordinary recognition, as she is not just a figure but a presence on cam­pus. 
As an example of this associ­ation, Sain cited the Latin words, "Vita Cedo Dul Specs" that are inscribed on the Uni­versity's seal. The words trans­late into the phrase "Our life, our sweetness, our hope" which is also the second line of the prayer, Hail Mary Queen, Mother of Mercy. 
+
American Heart C. ~ Association ~ V 
•../' 
~====~ENlOR~====~ 
Want to teach English in Japan? Join 
the Good Shepherd Program for a year 
after graduation. 
For more information come to the Center for Social Concerns Wednesday, February 13 or Thursda Februar 14 from 10-5 
" 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
TRIP TO LINCOLN ' ~ 
PARK ON FRIDAY, FEB. ~ 
15. ENJOY THE NIGHT ~ LIFE IN THIS POPULAR ~ CHICAGO DISTRICT! ~ BUSESLEAVE ~ LIBRARY CIRCLE AT ~ 5:00pm AND LEAVE ~ CHICAGO AT 1:00am ~ , (South Bend time). ~ 
' ~-~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·,·~·,.,.,.,.,.~.,.,.~.,.,.,.~·>' 
.-· -· .......... -· -· -· ... -· -· ............ -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· ... -· ... -· -· -· ... -· -· -· -· -· -· .... 
' ' 
~ Tix $10.00 in Class Office ~ ~ (Tues ...Fri. 3 .. 5 pm). ~ ' ~ 
~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 
The Observer 

page 4 Tuesday, February 12, 1991 
Factions clash in South Africa 
JOHANNESBURG, South ,..1111111!!~1!11111-----~~~~~~--. with "shock and horror" to the
20 miles 

Africa (AP) -Seventeen men killings in a joint statement were killed and 11 injured signed by ANC leader Nelson when black factions clashed in Mandela and Inkatha chairman Natal Province, police said Frank Mdlalose. Monday. A· rival leader In a separate statement, the reportedly accused the African ANC invited lnkatha and other National Congress of anti-apartheid organizations to ambushing two buses carrying form a commission of inquiry the victims. into the incident. 
Police said only that "a group Government-run South of blacks attacked another" African Broadcasting Corp. said Sunday afternoon outside Tay-the attackers lined both sides of lor's Halt, a township near the the road and fired on the buses provincial capital of Pietermar-with rifles and pistols and itzburg. 
hurled rocks. But a leader of the Inkatha Freedom Party said the victims 
The ANC and Inkatha, the were all Inkatha members 
two leading black movements, gunned down by semi-auto­
have been waging war in the matic weapons fire while re­
eastern province of Natal since turning from a prayer meeting. 
the mid-1980s, leaving 5,000 
blacks dead. 

The leader, David Ntombela, accused the rival African Na­Mandela and Inkatha leader tional Congress of staging an Mangosuthu Buthelezi signed a ambush on two buses and a peace pact Jan. 29 in Durban, pickup truck, The Star newspa­Natal's largest city, but fighting per of Johannesburg reported. has continued. 


Words of wisdom The Observer/John Fabbre 
Father Edward Malloy, University President, addressed freshmen last night at a convocation honoring their academic achievements. The convocation recognized those freshmen who received Dean's List honors during their first semester at Notre Dame. 
Campus Ministry and You 0MPUS MINISTRY  
This is the fast that pleases me: Prayer for Fridays to break unjust fetters, to let the oppressed go free, to share your bread with All praise be yours, God our the hungry Creator, and shelter the homeless poor. as we wait in joyful hope If you do away with the yoke, for the flowering of justice the clenched fist, the wicked word, and the fullness of peace. if you give your bread to the hungry All praise for this day, Friday. and relief to the oppressed, Be our weekly fasting and prayer your light will rise in the darkness cast out the spirit of war, of fear, Isaiah 58:6-7, 10 and mistrust, and make us grow hungry for From the United States bishops' letter, human kindness, The Challenge of Peace: thirsty for solidarity God's Promise and Our Response with all the people of your dear earth. As a tangible sign of our need and desire to do penance we, for the cause of peace, May all our prayer, our fasting and commit ourselves to fast and abstinance our deeds on each Friday of the year. We call upon be done in the name of Jesus. our people voluntarily to do penance on Amen. Friday by eating less food and by abstain­ing from meat. This return to a traditional From the United States bishops' letter, practice of penance, once well observed in Economic Justice for All: the U.S. Church, should be accompanied Catholic Social Teaching and the U.S. by works of charity and service toward Economy our neighbors. Every Friday should be a day significantly devoted to prayer, penance, The Christian perspective on the meaning of and almsgiving for peace. economic life must transform the lives of individuals, families, in fact, our whole culture. The Gospel confers on each Chris­tian the vocation to love God and neighbor in ways that bear fruit in the life of society. Please remember in prayer the deceased parents of That vocation consists above all in a change of heart: a conversion expressed in praise of members of the Notre Dame Community: God and in concrete deeds of justice and Father of Jonathon Puskos service. Father of Rob Belde Mother of Julie Marie Bryant  

... .. .. • ... ...... ,. ..... -... ,. , • *' , .. " f ... ., ~ I' ... ~ " ...... .,. ........ ~ ,. .,. .. ~ ....... <II ...... ~ # .. .. ~ ,• ........ ' ............ --....... ·' ........ ;. ....... ..-,., ., ... .-..... --... .,. ... -... •'
11! • • .i t/J. "f •• 
Tuesday, February 12, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Security Beat 
Thursday, Feb. 7 
8 p.m. A visitor to the University reported that his wife's purse was stolen while she was sitting In section 8 of the JACC watching the basketball game. 
10:30 p.m. A patron of a high school basketball game reported that he and his son were assaulted by two suspects while leaving the JACC parking lot. 
11:45 p.m. A resident of Flanner Hall reported that someone had changed the dollar amount of a check that he had written without his permission. 
Friday, Feb. 8 
1:30 a.m. A Domino's pizza delivery man reported that the Domino's Pi;z;za sign on top of his car was stolen while It was parked outside of Flanner Hall. 
3:55 p.m. A University employee reported vandalism to her car while it was parked in the North Dining Hall reserved lot. 
4 p.m. A visitor to the University reported vandalism to his vehicle while it was parked In the east lot of the stadium. 
4:10p.m. An off-campus student reported that her locked bike was stolen from outside of the South Dining Hall sometime between 12/1 0·12122. 
9:43 p.m. An off-campus student reported that his wallet was stolen earlier that afternoon from an unlocked locker at the Rockne Memorial. 
10:13 p.m. A resident of Keenan Hall reported that his car was broken Into while it was parked in the D·2 parking Jot. His rad10 and amplifier were stolen. 
Saturday, Feb. 9 
12:42 p.m. A Saint Mary's student reported that her wallet was stolen from her purse while It was left unattended in a classroom of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
12:43 p.m. A resident of St. Joseph Hall reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
Sunday,Feb.10 
10:38 a.m. Notre Dame Security removed bulletins from O'Shaunessy Hall that were not approved by Student Activities for posting. 
Monday, Feb. 11 
10:53 a.m. A construction worker reported vandalism to the outside doors of the Hesburgh Center for lntematlonal Studies. 
11 a.m. A resident of Siegfried Hall reported that all four of her hubcaps were stolen from her car while It was parked in the D·2 parking lot. 
TV anchorwoman slain at her Battle Creek home 
I AM UPSET ABOUT THE SIZE OF MY CLASSES 

ta VERY UPSET 13.9% 
E2J SOMEWHAT UPSET 44.2% 
• NOT UPSET 37.5% 0 NOT SURE 4.3% 
MY EDUCATION HAS BEEN NEGATIVELY AFFECTED 

0 STRONGLY AGREE 12.6% ~AGREE 36.9% ~ NOTSURE 19.6% D DISAGREE 27.3% 
• STRONGLY DISAGREE 3.6% 
WHERE THE BIGGEST CLASSES ARE 

0 ARTS & LETIERS 34.3% ~ BUSINESS 8.8% 0 ENGINEERING 10.6% 0 SCIENCE 16.5% • NOTSURE 29.8% 
MARSHALL, Mich. (AP)-A television anchorwoman who was haunted by threatening calls and a letter from a re­buffed male admirer was shot to death in her driveway, but investigators Monday didn't rule out other suspects. 
Diane Newton King of WUHQ­TV in Battle Creek was shot twice Saturday night as she turned to get her two young children out of her car. 
Police searched the farm­house where Newton King, 34, and her husband, former police officer Bradford King, lived with their 3-year-old son and 3­month-old daughter. 
Investigators also searched weed-choked fields surrounding the home and nearby woods where the anchorwoman's husband said he was walking when she was shot about 6 p.m. in Fredonia 
Township  in  southern  
Michigan.  
Newton  King  and  her  

children had just returned from her native Detroit when she was shot with a small-caliber gun as the youngsters remained strapped into their car seats. Her husband discovered the body in the driveway, Olson said. 
Authorities were not limiting their search for a suspect to an anonymous male admirer who sent Newton King a threatening note months earlier, Calhoun 
County Sheriff Jon Olson said at a news conference. "Everyone is a suspect," he said. 
Sheriff's deputies last year investigated threats against Newton King but made no ar­rests, sheriff's Lt. Terry Cook said earlier. About two weeks ago, Newton King mentioned in a telephone conversation with Jan Hammer, general manager of Colorado TV station KJCT, that a man had been harassing her. 
Newton King had worked for KJCT before moving to WUHQ two years ago. 
"She had been receiving calls from a male who had wanted to get into the broadcasting busi­ness and was asking for her advice," Hammer said Monday. "The caller asked if she wanted to have lunch with him and she declined. 
"She supposedly received a letter in the mail and this letter was composed from either us­ing print or magazine letters that had been cut out and said something to the effect that 'You'll be sorry you didn't have lunch with me."' 
WUHQ Vice President Mark Crawford said the station in­formed authorities about the calls and letter at the time. Ol­son said the calls and letter be­gan in July and ended in Octo­ber. 

Brown student expelled for verbal slurs 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) -A Brown University student was 
American Heart t/a
Association ,­
expelled for violating the school's behavioral code when 
This space provided as a public service. 

he shouted racial, ethnic arid anti-homosexual slurs at other 
students.

x~.~~.~~~~~~~~~' 
The university's president, Vartan Gregorian, upheld a Jan. 25 decision by the disci­plinary board, said Robert Re­





DIAL 
ichley, a Brown vice president. Reichley refused Monday to detail the incident that
27-ROSES 
prompted the expulsion earlier this year or to release the stu­FOR VALENTINES FLOWERS-CUT ROSES-BONSAI PLANTS 
dent's name. 

The school newspaper, The Brown Daily Herald, identified 
ROSELAND FRUIT AND GARDEN CENTER-(ACROSS FROM RANDALLS INN) 
27-ROSES OR 277-6737 OR 272-7760 
the student in a story last week 
VISA WE DELIVER 
as Doug Hann, a senior from Pittsburgh. Hann was accused last fall of
x~:~~.~~~L-'!--1~~--t,;~~~; 
shouting racial, ethnic and anti-homosexual slurs at a 
group of students. The Univer­sity Disciplinary Council con­victedllim of charges under the disciplinary code and he ap­pealed to Gregorian. 
Robert Ripley, an associate dean involved with disciplinary cases, refused Monday to dis­cuss the incident, referring all questions to Reichley. 
Because the original disci­plinary hearing was confiden­tial, Reichley said, no further details could be released. 
The Daily Herald, citing a memo posted at the office of Dean of Students David Inman, said Hann was convicted of vio­lating behavioral code prohibi­tions against harassment based on race, religion, gender, hand­icap, ethnicity, natural origin or sexual orientation. 
A woman who answered the telephone at the Pittsburgh 




TEACH FOR AMERICA 
interview spots available 
March 26, 1991 
Teach For America is a national teacher corps of talented, dedicated individuals from all ethnic backgrounds and academic majors who commit two years to teach in urban and rural areas that have persistent teacher shortages. 
*Salary: $17,000-$29,000 *Loans: deferment (Stafford/GSL) or cancellation (Perkins /NDSL) possible 

to pick up an application and sign up for an interview , stop by the Notre Dame Career and Placement Services (applications must be submitted by 2/27/91) 
home listed as Hann's in a Brown directory said Hann did not live there anymore. 
The disciplinary board had found Hann guilty of a similar racial incident in 1989 and ordered him to undergo coun­seling, the Daily Herald said. 
Previous racial and ethnic in­cidents led Brown to tighten its behavioral code two years ago, granting the discliplinary board authority to expel a student. 
Reichley said the recent inci­dent was not the first expul­sion. 
In the past two years, racial and anti-homosexual graffiti have been found in a Brown dormitory and there have been attacks against white and Asian students around the campus by black youths that were believed to be racially motivated. 


Vote 
continued from page 1 
says a lot about Notre Dame's rapid move to become a na­tional Catholic research univer­sity." 
Thirty-four percent of those responding said that the Col­lege of Arts and Letter had the worst problem with class sizes, while thirty percent of the vot­ers were unsure which college has the biggest problem. Eight percent selected the College of Business and Administration, 10 percent chose the College of Engineering, and 16 percent said that the College of Science had the largest problem. 

Correction 
A Jan. 25 article in The Ob­server stated that Saint Mary's hall elections will be held before lottery room selection. As of this date, the elections are scheduled to occur after room selections. If a decision is made to change the scheduled elections, the student body of Saint Mary's will be informed. 

~~------~---­

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Tuesday, February 12, 1991 

NUCLEAR WEAPONS ON THE BATTLEFIELD 
Tactical nuclear weapons are designed for direct combat with enemy forces. In contrast, "theater" or "strategic" weapons are designed for over-the-horizon use to reach rear areas of the battlefield. The yield, or explosive equivalent, of these weapons ranges from less than a tenth of a kiloton to about 50 kilotons (a kiloton is equal to 1,000 tons of TNT). The nuclear bombs dropped on Japan in World War II had a yield of about 20 kilotons. 
The smallest tactical nuclear 
device available is the W48 
warhead, which has an 
estimated yield of 0.1 kiloton. 
Artillery shells can be 
delivered with a high degree of 
155mm self-propelled 
precision. The shells have a 
artillery
range of about 12 to 20 miles. 
The Lance system has a variety of nuclear warheads, varying in yield from 1-1 00 kilotons. Its range is about 80 miles. The missile can also carry conventional high explosives. Lance development began in 1962; the first battalion was 

Surface-to-surface missile mounted on
deployed in 1972. 

M752 amphibious erector-launcher 
L-------------------------------------------~ 
Source: Modern Land Combat; How to Make War; The Military Balance, 1990-91 AP/Karl Tate 
Bomb threat causes CNN to temporarily go off the air 
ATLANTA (AP) -The Head­line News service of Cable News Network briefly went black Monday because editorial employees and about 1,500 other people were evacuated in a bomb threat at the CNN office complex. 
"Headline News ran on tape from 5 to 6 (p.m. EST) and we went dark approximately 7 minutes total during what would have been four commer­cial breaks," said Mike Oglesby, vice president for corporate communications for Turner Broadcasting System Inc. 
He said there were no techni­cians in the studio to run the scheduled commercials. 
Headline News is a 30-minute program run continuously by Turner Broadcasting System Inc. as a separate service from CNN. Oglesby said CNN was not affected because an extended broadcast was aired to coincide with the evacuation. 

"We replayed a Pentagon briefing that had aired earlier in the afternoon," Oglesby said. 
The CNN Center complex was evacuated for about 30 minutes and employees were allowed to return when the time threat­ened for a bomb explosion passed, said Bill Shaw, vice president of administration and head of security for TBS. 
Shaw revised his original evacuation estimate of 2,500 to 1,500. 
He said it was not the first bomb threat CNN has received since the Jan. 17 start of the Persian Gulf War, but it was the first "we took seriously." 

Another SCUD missile falls on Israel 
JERUSALEM (AP) -An Iraqi Scud missile with a conven­tional warhead hit a residential area inside Israel early Tues­day, causing injuries and dam­age' officials said. 
Spokesman Brig. Gen. Nach­man Shai did not say how many people were hurt, but added "most of them are only slightly wounded. Perhaps one or two of them suffered moderate wounds." 
It was not immediately clear if U.S.-supplied Patriot missiles were fired to intercept the Scud. 
Hours earlier, another rocket landed in a deserted section of central Israel, causing no dam­age or casualties, the army said. 
The army said the Tuesday missile hit one house and debris was scattered over a wide area. Israel radio said four people were rescued from the rubble and hospitalized. 
The location of the missile hit was not disclosed. Dr. Boleslav Goldman, deputy 
director of the Tel Hashomer hospital in the Tel Aviv area, said three casualties had been admitted. 
"1\vo were hit with flying de­bris and one was in shock," he said. 
Reporters on the scene said earth-moving equipment was seen at the site. Israel radio said one man was taken out of the rubble alive and well. 
In previous missile barrages, at least two people have been killed and about 300 injured. 
A total of 33 Scud missiles have been fired at Israel since the GulfWar began Jan. 17. 
All carried conventional war­heads, despite repeated threats by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to use chemical weapons. Israelis have been in­structed to don gas masks and enter sealed rooms to protect against a possible chemical at­tack. 
Shortly after Monday's missile attack, Palestinian activists ran into the streets of the Deir el Balah refugee camp in the Gaza Strip in violation of an army curfew and shouted "Allahu Akbar," the Moslem rallying cry meaning "God is great," Arab reports said. 
Israeli soldiers fired to dis­perse the demonstrators, they said. Hospital officials said a 24-year-old Palestinian man was admitted in serious condi­tion with a rubber-coated metal pellet in his head. 
The army was checking the report. 
Many Palestinians support Saddam, who has championed their 38-month-long uprising against Israeli occupation. Is­raelis have been angered by re­peated reports of Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza cheering the incoming Scuds. 
In Israel's Parliament, sup­porters of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir easily defeated three no-confidence motions challenging the government's handling of the missile crisis and the army's three-week blanket curfew in the occupied territories. 

SCUD debris from Patriot wounds two 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP)­1\vo Patriot air defense missiles blasted an Iraqi Scud missile out of the sky Monday night, but the falling debris injured two people, officials said. 
The Scud attack came less than a day after U.S. pilots re­ported the destruction of four mobile launchers in Iraq. 
The rocket broke apart in a . burst of yellow as the Patriots intercepted it. The warhead and other wreckage fell on the grounds of a school and ex­ploded, causing extensive dam­age and slightly wounding two security guards. 
The impact collapsed a 325­foot-long section of masonry wall, dug a 13-foot-deep crater and hurled huge chunks of ma­sonry and aluminum sheeting into a swimming pool. 
The guards were hit by flying glass, officials said. 
"The Patriot changed the missile's direction and exploded the body of the missile, but the warhead fell to the ground," said a civil defense major who would not give his name. 
The building's copper roofing was peeled back. Inside, light­ing fixtures hung jaggedly from the ceiling. The aluminum rail­ing leading up to the high div­ing board was crushed by flying bricks. 
No students were at the school because of mid-year va­cation. 
Israel also came under mis­sile attack Monday and early Tuesday. 
In Riyadh, air raid sirens sounded at 10:30 p.m. (2:30 
p.m. EST). Minutes later, two Patriots flashed from their launchers and pursued the mis­sile across a night sky with patchy clouds. 
The impact was far enough away that the explosions were not heard for perhaps 20 sec­onds. 
Since the war began Jan. 17, Iraq has fired 62 of the mis­siles, targeting Saudi Arabia and Israel about evenly, in a largely futile effort to inflict damage in the Saudi capital and to draw Israel into the war. 
The last previous Scud attack here was Friday, a day before 
U.S. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, arrived for two days of war consultations with senior commanders. 
U.S. officials had anticipated that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's forces might try to hit the city with a Scud during the visit, but no attack occurred. 

Earlier, it was reported that American pilots on "Scud pa­trol" claimed the destruction of four and possibly five of Iraq's mobile Scud launchers in the past two days, U.S. military of­ficials said. 
The officials said three launchers were in western Iraq, where they would fire toward Israel, and two in an area from which missiles have been fired at Saudi Arabia. 

U.S. officials estimated weeks ago that Iraq had up to 30 mo­bile launchers along with about 20 fixed sites. They have re­ported all the fixed sites de­stroyed and up to 18 mobile launchers knocked out. 
But the officials have since hedged on the number of mo­bile launchers that Iraq may have had at the outset. 





OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Tuesday, February 12, 1991 



Bush says he will hold off ground attack 

We're looking for seniors who like working with an kinds ofhardware. Careers in data processing, accounting, actuarial, and auditing at State Fann. At State Farm, we W1derstand the concept of"work:' Believe it or not,. we also Lmderstand the concept of"plaY:' . . . That's because we don't think you can be really outstanding at the first \\1thout havmg an appreciation for the second. Which is exactly why a career at State Farm in Bloomington could be UK' ideal place for you. You'll work for one ofthe coW1try's most respected companies on the most advanced computer equipment in the industry. You'll be challenged and stimulated. You'll be rewarded witl1 excellent pay and benefits. You'll make your classmates very envious. What's more, you'll also have time to appreciate the fmer things in llle. That's because Bloom­ington isn't just a great place to s~ a career, it's a great place to live, to enjoy, ~start a family (if, indeed, you're ready tD start thinking about that). In addition to the cornmumtys pleasant neighbor­hoods, inviting parks, and other recreational facilities, you'll fmd two universities that offer a host of cultural and social activities to take advantage of. Stat V. Ifyou're a Senior With a math, aCCOW1ting, data processing, STATI fAIM erarm or computer science background, come talk to us at your ....a... Insurance college placement office. We're looking for people who are CDW Co . INSUIANCI amesmotivated and outgoing. People who ~njoy c~allenges. on the • mp job ­and away from It. After all, you re notJUSt looking for a Home Offices: Bloomington, illinois. great job. You're looking for a great way ofllle. An equal opportunity employer.  

WASIIINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush said Monday he will hold off a bloody ground war against Iraq for now while al­lied forces continue pounding Saddam Hussein's forces with air strikes that have been "very, vflry effective." 
"We are going to take what­ever time is necessary to sort out when a next stage might begin," Bush said on the 26th day of the war after meeting with top military advisers just back from the Persian Gulf. 
M!lanwhile, the White House complained that Saddam was rnaping dividends -even from Mikhail Gorbachev -by exag­gerating civilian casualties from allied bombings. 
"The propaganda and P.R. battle is where Saddam is scor­ing his points," presidential pmss secretary Marlin Fitzwa­tnr said. 
Heferring to Gorbachev's weekend criticism concerning civilian losses in Iraq, Fitzwater said, "It's disturbing to find this 

GULF WAR ROUNDUP MONDAY, FEB.11 

Francois Giuliani, spokesman Iraqi diplomats said they for Perez de Cuellar, declined to want the full transcript of the LA-s-of_?_p-.m-_-E-ST--'----------------------A~P comment on the content of the 
diplomatic discussion -36 transcript, saying that leaked pages in Arabic -released as press reports were "self-serv­a documPnt of the Security ing" and taken out of context. Council. 
evidence that somebody's buying it." 
After being hit for weeks from the air, Iraq has been ex­pressing impatience for a ground war, seemingly believ­ing its modern tanks and ar­tillery, equipped with chemical­and biological-tipped war­heads, can inflict heavy casual­ties on the U.S.-led allies. 
But Bush declared, "We are not going to suit somebody else's timetable, whether he lives in Baghdad or anyplace else." 
His decision had been anx­iously awaited because a ground battle would send the war into a new. far riskier stage. Many members of Congress -as well as some commanders in the gulf-had advocated a delay in ground fighting to allow more time for air strikes to inflict damage. 
The president made his statement -but took no ques­tions -after receiving a 1 1/2­hour briefing from Defense 
IN IRAQ: 
• 
Iraq rejected two new peace plans by Iran and the non-aligned move­ment. 

• 
Iraq announces that all 17 -year-old males, including students, will be conscripted into the army. 


· .. 
IRAil 

Dhahran •· to authorize trade sanctions which started when Saddam in­and the use of force against vaded Kuwait Aug. 2. The Iraq. Security Council had set a Jan. 
U.N. officials say Iraq's at­15 deadline for its tempt to bypass official chan­authorization to use of force nels and release the transcript against Iraq.
SAUDI ARABIA 

violates diplomatic standards. 
Secretary Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who returned Sunday night from meetings with military com­manders at the war front. The meeting also was attended by Vice President Dan Quayle, Sec­retary of State James A. Baker III, Brent Scowcroft, the na­tional security adviser, and John Sununu, the president's chief of staff. 
"The air campaign has been very, very effective and it will continue for awhile," Bush an­nounced afterward. "We're not talking about dates for further adding to the air campaign, put it that way." 
His decision was heartily wel­comed at the Pentagon. Lt. Gen. Thomas Kelly, director of op­erations for the Joint Chiefs. told reporters there are still plenty of targets that can be attacked from the air. "Let's make it as easy on that foot soldier as we possibly can be­fore we go," he said. 
Iraq, U.N. at odds over transcript 
-UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The transcript also shows Iraq and the United Nations Saddam saying he began to were at odds Monday over re­withdraw from Kuwait two lease of a transcript that indi­days after taking over the cates the U.N. secretary-gen­country but stopped when 
eral agreed with Saddam Hus­American forces continued to sein's claim that the United increase their presence in the States dominated U.N. decision gulf. on the gulf crisis. The secretary-general, ac­
The transcript records Secre­cording to the published tran­tary-General Javier Perez de script, praised Saddam for Cuellar's meeting with the Iraqi championing the Palestinian president in Baghdad four days cause and placing it high on the before the first allied attack on international agenda. The Iraq. United States and Western na­
The transcript published in tions oppose Saddam's efforts Arabic in the Jordanian news­to link resolution of the gulf paper AI Destour on Saturday conflict with resolution of quotes the secretary-general as Palestinian issues. apparently agreeing with the The secretary-general had Iraqi leader that the Security traveled to Baghdad in an 11th­Council bowed to U.S. desires hour effort to end the crisis, 
Citing the safety of allied troops, Bush said there would not be a public discussion of when a ground war might be­
.gin. 
He said he would rely heavily on advice from Cheney, Powell and others. "And then if they come to me and say there needs to be another phase, then I will then make that decision because that is a decision for the president of the United States. 
"Having said that," Bush 
added, "I have total confidence 
we are on the right path." 
Bush appeared sensitive 
about civilian casualties, an is­
sue exploited by Saddam. 
"I would be remiss if I didn't 
reassure the American people 
that this war is being fought 
with high technology," the 
president said. "There is no 
targeting of civilians. 
"It has gone far better in 
terms of casualties than I had 
hoped, but we mourn the loss of every single member of our armed forces and the coalition forces, of course." 
Bush also began a flurry of meetings with defense ministers of allied countries. 
He met in the Oval Office with Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Arens to discuss the impact of the war on his country. Thn meeting was punctuated by a chilling message to Arens that air raid sirens were wailing in Israel, warning of a missile at­tack. 
"We evidently had a Scud hit in Israel that took place only a few minutes ago," Arens told reporters afterward. lie said there was significant damage to civilian centers from earlier attacks. 
"We see sights of destruction in Israel that have not been seen in Western countries since World War II," Arens said. 
On Tuesday, Bush will meet with the defense chiefs of Bri­tain and France. Britain has sent 40,000 troops to the gulf 
U.N. officials are resisting circulation of the document. on grounds it represents a confi­dential private conversation. 
Iraqi diplomats said, how­ever, that if the United Nations would not release the tran­script as an official document of the Security Council, then Iraq itself would circulate its English translation of the Arabic as early as Tuesday to all members of the Security Coun­cil and the press corps. 
"Let them do it," said Giu­liani, but he said that publica­tion of the transcript violates norms of diplomacy and the confidentiality of diplomatic meetings. 
A translation of the published transcript by The Associated Press shows Saddam telling the secretary-general: 
"These are American resolu­tions. This is an American age. What America wants today is what happens and not what the Security Council wants." 
Perez de Cuellar replied, ac­cording to the transcript, "I agree with you as far as the is­sue concerns me." 

-----------------------------------~------------------------------~ 



Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, February 12, 1991 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303  
1990-91 General Board  
Editor-in-Chief  
Alison Cocks  
Managing Editor Business Manager  
John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor  
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger  
Viewpoint Editor ......•....•... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ...•........ Amy Eckert  
Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton  
Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged.  ,··, .. <1 f~-~ ,. ~ ---...~ 1'1:'-u--:~1 'I . ~  

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Azar lecture demonstrates need for academic responsibility 
Dear Editor: 
We wish to respond to several egregious distortions, made by Dr. Carla Johnson (The Observer, Feb. 1 ), of the opinions of Khalil Azar, which Mr. Azar expressed in his talk at Saint Mary's College teach-in on the Middle East, Jan. 24. We would like first to address some specific assertions made by Dr. Johnson in her letter and then to draw some general conclusions. 
First assertion: Mr. Azar supports Saddam Hussein. 
Fact: Mr. Azar explicitly opposes territorial gains by force, whether on the part of Israel or Iraq. He supports freedom, democracy, stability, and peace for all countries and peoples in the Middle East. 
Second assertion: Azar claims "that Israel not only has some involvement with the United States in the current war, but also desires a war in the Middle East." 
Fact: Israel is in a de facto war with the Palestinian people in the occupied territories (the intifada). Iraq putatively supports the Palestinians and is an avowed enemy of Israel. Even though Israel has not (so far) retaliated against the SCUD attacks, the Israeli government has consistently supported the United States' position in the UN on the use of force against Iraq, and the current war benefits Israel in many ways-not least in that there will be no comprehensive Middle East peace conference as long as the fighting continues. 

Third Assertion: Azar is an anti-Semitic propagandist dissembling as a peace activist. 
Fact: Leaving aside that Mr. Azar is himself a Semite, he recognizes that much Jewish opinion in the United States pictures Israel as a tiny country beset by constant threat of attack and/or dismemberment by larger, hostile surrounding countries. Azar wishes to argue that this picture is not only misleading but actually false; none of the surrounding countries is calling for the destruction of Israel but only for the implementation of the UN resolutions on the Palestinian question. In 1988, the PLO's own peace proposal formally acknowledged the state of Israel's right to exist. However, the Israeli government still refused to negotiate or even to accept Baker's peace plan. In the same vein, any "peace" plan or treaty that does not realistically address the Palestinian's situation -vide, the Camp David Agreement ­cannot be seen as anything but a travesty of justice, a bitter and tragic joke. 
We recognize that Dr. Johnson's views are widely shared in the United States and that the SCUD attacks have generated much sympathy for the Israeli people, sympathy not misplaced. However, her response also illustrates the down side of the media-fed public reaction to the war: the utter failure to take Arab, Arab­American, and, especially, Palestinian opinion about this conflict seriously. 
Mr. Azar answering a question from the audience explained that he is an Arab-American who was born and raised in the Occupied Territories. Yet he is not allowed to return to his birthplace and show his children where he grew up, though a Soviet citizen who has never previously been to Israel can move there to live and gain immediate citizenship solely by virtue of religion. "Is this right?" he asked. He fully supports the right of Soviet Jews to travel where they please and live in the country of their choice; he asks the same right for himself and other Palestinians. 
Mr. Azar has been involved as an active proponent for years in talks between Palestinians and the Israeli peace movement. As are all the signers of this letter, he is an unequivocal supporter of Israel's' right to exist, and, likewise, of the Palestinians' right to an estate of their own. 
Furthermore, while deploring Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, Azar is asking for fairness and openmindedness on the part of the American people to the possibility that the Iraqis may have some legitimate grievances which could and should have been resolved by negotiation rather than "diplomatic" ultimata and hasty resort to force. 
Academics have a particular responsibility to listen to others with care and respond reflectively and prudently. We cannot afford to have blind spots in the middle of a war if we claim we want peace. 
Patrick D. Gaffney Caroline Domingo Women's International League for Peace and Freedom Peter D. Smith Professor of Mathematics Saint Mary's College Lee Gloster Military Families Support Network Candice M. Carson, M.D. Elleyn Stecher Ann K. Clark Chairperson Department of Philosophy Feb 5. 1991 

Minorities struggle for equality should not be misunderstood 
Dear Editor, 
In reading R. Garr Schwartz's article, "Minorities Are Not the Only Disadvantaged Poople,"(The Observer, Feb. 5) I quickly realized, although Mr. Schwartz may not agree with me, that he and minorities have a lot in common. Unfortunately, Mr. Schwartz has some misunderstandings that keep the common frustrations under wraps. 
In regard to Mr. Schwartz's claim that minorities are not the only disadvantaged people, I would tend to agree. However, minorities never claimed to be 

DOONESBURY 

the only disadvantaged people. Minorities' efforts for quality are continuously put down by people like Mr. Schwartz simply because minorities have had the courage to fight the system that is not working fairly. Minorities, time and time again, struggle for what they deserve-equality: equality in the social strata, equality in employment and equality for respect of their multicultural histories. 
While I believe Mr. Schwartz isn't fighting enough to correct the wrong he believes was done to him, he is claiming SUFR is fighting for too much. I don't believe Mr. Schwartz realizes that SUFR is trying to end the system which he claims didn't help him because he is a white male. SUFR is merely striving for respect and equality from the University of Notre Dame, a respect that Mr. Schwartz says he, too, never received. SUFR has never suggested segregation or supported ideas that only benefit minorities. It is a student coalition striving for equality on this campus through multicultural education. It is not seeking the power to enforce its beliefs on others but the power to share its views, its trials, its experiences and its multicultural prilje on a campus where such views and ideas for the most part, go unheard. 
As a black woman, I have a lifetime of experiences that al­low me to empathize with Mr. Schwartz's frustration of not receiving what is deserved sim­ply because of gender and race. I believe the similarities be­tween Mr. Schwartz's frustra­tion and the frustration of the students associated with SUFR are strong enough to overcome the misunderstandings on both sides. Since these frustrations 
· GARRY TRUDEAU 
seemed to be shared, I ask Mr. Schwartz to realize that if he believes his social group is be­ing discriminated against, he should fight the discriminating system. Don't attack other groups simply because they have the courage to take risks of being misunderstood, and then, because of their protests, become the victims of racial anger and fear. Instead, find the problems that are common to the groups and unite. 
Elizabeth Peterson Siegfried Hall Feb.5, 1991 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

FlEW 51.1!<1SICAL-COMPANY. 
NAH. COMPARW 7D WHATU/!3 
BY THe WAY, fXJ
PATOIW YOU UP. YOU'!?E 601M3 70 
5138/N H&R&, 71115 IS JU'3TA YOU /A/ANT 7Dl<l3&P 
'You must be careful each time
N/5WFURJH/3R. 0~/?/C-WO!?I< 
SCRATCH. YOU'Rf3 A WCKY 
YOUR SHRAPNU.~
/MAN ..,
tXfTClV THt ''Mti?Cf." 
I 

you step out of your door, 
/A/HeR/5... 
WHtf<E: 

because the front walk is really 
AMJ2 

a road, and the road leads ever onward.'
""' 
J.R.R. Tolkien 



Viewpoint
Tuesday, February 12, 1991 page 9 
Operation Desert Storm does not meet just war criteria 

.Justice is an obscure thing. It has been the subject of philo­sophical and theological works from the earliest known times to our own. Justice seems to be a thing that different people de­fine in different ways, depend­ing on where they are and what they are doing. Despite the seeming impossibility of locking down a single, exact, true def­inition of justice, there is a gen­eral agreement among most pnophl about when justice is in­volved in certain aspects of life. Among these aspects is war. 
Beginning centuries ago with Saint Augustine, a just war theory and the criteria used to judgn wars developed. Among tlw many criteria are: that the cause must be just, the author­ity under which the war is waged must be legitimate, the intention of the belligerent must bP good. and the war is the last resort. Every conflict must be judged on the basis of these same guidfllines. The current war, Operation Dessert Storm, fails to meet all of these tests. The war in the Persian Gulf is, therefore, not a just war. 
Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait and tlw brutality of his military forees in the pillage of that nation provides a just 
cause for an armed conflict 
aimed at the expulsion of the 
Iraqis from Kuwait. A just war, 
though, demands more than 
this. For a war to be just, it 
must meet all the other criteria. 
Legitimate authority is one of the failings of the current con­flict. The operation was autho­rized under a United Nations Security Council Resolution. The legitimate authority is the United Nations. Neither the United States, nor any other nation in the coalition standing against Iraq, was ever officially authorized to take up the com­mand of the allied forces or de­cide when to initiate hostilities, yet it was by order of the President of the United States that hostilities were initiated. To many people, especially the Arabs. this current conflict is simply another case in the long history of Western intervention for .the purpose of furthering Western goals. 
Before the United States can be truly considered a legitimate authority, it must do several things: first, convince the other nations of the United Nations Security Council to formally de­clare it the leader of the coali­tion; convince the peoples of the Middle East that they are not just another Western nation 
Todd Owens 
Guest Columnist 
come to the region to exploit their resources and people; and follow its own laws by formally declaring the war by and offi­cial act of Congress. Although a Security Council resolution would be sufficient to declare a member of the coalition the le­gitimate authority , the other conditions must still be met be­fore the conflict could be called a just war. 
Right intention of the coali­tion forces is another manda­tory requirement before the war could be called just. Right intention in this case would be the expulsion of Iraqi forces from Kuwait and the restora­tion of its legitimate govern­ment. Right intention does not include destruction of the Iraqi state, destruction of the entire Iraqi military force-regardless of its location and ability to play a part in the conflict in Kuwait, or the removal of the current government. If any of these is a goal of the coaltion forces, the Operation Desert Storm cannot be a just war. Promotion of Western economic interests, establishment of a permanent military force in the region and the permanent division of the Arabs into multiple nations are, also, not included under right intention. The only valid right intention is the restoration of a just peace. 
Finally, one of the linchpins of the just war theory is that to be just, a war must be the last resort. A war is only just if all other avenues have been sin­cerely attempted and have failed to yield results. Unfortunately, the current conflict is not the result of the failure of every other possible method of convincing Saddam Hussein to return to Kuwaitis to its people and their govern­ment. Instead, the conflict is the result of impatience of the Western leaders. The driving force behind the initiation of hostilities was not failure of sanctions or of diplomacy; in­stead, that driving force was Western leaders' fear that if they did not get results quickly, then their coalition would break up, or attention would be drawn off to another, newer crisis. 
The token meeting between Tariq Aziz and James Baker was far too little and far too late. The members of the coali­tion relied on name calling and an already made decision to use force instead of allowing sanc­tions to take effect or attempt­ing real diplomacy. Last resort means every known political maneuver has been exhausted. It does not mean that after a set deadline has come and gone, without real communication between belligerent parties, the war is justified. 
Liberating Kuwait, stabilizing the region, securing the world's oil supply and creating a coali­tion to protect small, defense­less nations are all just and le­gitimate gaols. However, the question is: can a war of ques­tionable justification success­fully achieve these aims? The final conclusion that must be drawn is that this war, carried out by predominantly Western forces against a single Arab nation, will not lead to a just and lasting peace in the Middle East, and it will not create any form of New World Order that could not have been crflatfld, at less cost, without war. We must, therefore, conclude that Operation Dessert Storm is not a just war. 
Todd Owens is a senior gol!­ernment major and a member of the Iceberg Debates Standing Committee. 


Justice demand 
be continued 
There has to hP some obscure States considflrs thfl citizflns of 
federal law on the books man­a country to be ultimately dating the withholding of eol­responsible for the conduct of lPge degrellS to any undergrad­its government.) uatP student who dons not rnad Do I think it is just to fight 
Tlw Ht>publir. Why fllse would merflly to protect oil suppliP.s? professors see fit to subjeet No, but there is much morp, to poor, unwitting, overworked the story than that. I admit to students to such an onnrous being troubled by the economic rPading burden? Sometimes, dimension of this war. However, though, an assigned reading I have no qualms about actually turns out to be read­the absolutfl evil ~~=======~~~~i~ts~a~s;se;ttss~.-:avoid fulfilling law­relieving the world of a man able and thought-provoking. Few wars havfl an occupying Michael J. Swope fully contracted obligations and who calls for jihad just to save Tlw Hepublie (espeeially the power using unconditional Guest Columnist pillage the countryside. Does his own skin (with all the Bloom translationl is such a surrendflr to restore the con­justice require that we ignore religious violence that a jihad hook, because it addresses a quered country to prominence questioned as being the ongoing mass torture and brings with it), and a ruler who fundanwntal question that ev­and indP.pendP.nce. To commit unnecessary, or unjust. Some murder of the conquered to poisons and summarily exe­ery dmnoeraey must face with to war is always a difficult de­have mixed feelings about avoid shedding the blood of the cutes his own pP.ople. 1wery action it takes: what is cision for a republic to make. To Operation Desert Storm. I, conqueror? No. That undefin­tlw nature of justice? Plato sustain the war is sometimes however, stand resolved that able quality, justice, requires us There is justice in ridding the crafts a debatll that gives sev­more difficult, because a Operation Desert Storm is a just to intercede, to stop murder, to world of a man who targets in­eral definitions of justice, and republic has something that no war. My resolve is not derived stop evil even at the sacrifice of nocent civilians of a noncom­at the end, one wonders dictatorship can ever use: the from patriotic mental nullity of ourselves. Some of us, in some batant with the hope that thfl wlwtlwr the question is an­conscience of its citizens. supporting American troops capacity, will be called upon to noncombatant will then kill swernd at all. But in America, Questioning the justice of and Americans wars just do that one day whether as a some of his innocent civilians tlw question is not often Operation Desert Storm should because they exist. Nor would I soldier, sailor, police officer or so that he has an excuse to kill 
-
enough asked. The word justice be wekomed by all citizens, be­entertain the opposite, a knee­as a citizen halting crime. To more of theirs. I have no is bandied about as being the cause the question forces us to jerk reaction against any have continued sanctions in the qualms about freeing Kuwaitis name of a finite and physical answer ourselves, and it forces military activity. Those who hope the Saddam would capitu­and Iraqis from rule under thing, hut every day each of us us to address the nature of hide their lack of thoughtful late was a vain hope indeed. He threat of genocide, so that one has his or her attention drawn justice. No nation should ever consideration behind the flag, had a much more vigorous, day they, too, may be able to to something that should make enter a war without questioning or anti-war dogma, can be the much more prosperous econ­question aloud the nature of us ponder the quality of justice the justice of its actions, nor most dangerous people of all, omy in Kuwait to plunder be­justice. Those are worthy goals; Wll cherish so dearly and un­should any nation continue a because they are the most fore he would feel any pinch, those are just goals. We should derstand so poorly. war without that consideration. easily misled. Not being a which is something that too not let past mistfl.kes prevent us 
Amflrkans have become con­Catholic, nor having any pre­many people forget. from doing the right thing ditioned to the seeming moral As I write this article, United tense to being a student of when the call for action comes. certitude of World War II, States armed forces are con-· Catholicism, I also do not intend Will innocent Iraqi civilians be Godspeed to our troops for vic­which is one exception. Few ducting war against the Saddam to discuss the Catholic just war killed in a war? Yes, most tory and a safe return. wars have a Pearl Harbor to Hussein regime that currently doctrine. I speak as a citizen of unfortunately. Is that just? No, immediately and cleanly thrust rules in Iraq. God willing, the the United States. but it is a consequence of war, a Michael J. Swope is a gradu­a country into battle. Few wars war will be over when you read I speak to fellow citizens of war which itself may be just. (A ate student in history, and pol­have a Dachau, or a Treblinka, this. The nation has been asked the evil of the ruthless conquest new cornerstone of our foreign icy analyst of the Iceberg or a BergenBelsen to symbolize to support an action that is of an innocent country to seize policy should be that the United Debates Standing Committee 
-· 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Criticism of· player was a result of poor judgment not his race 
Dear Editor: 
Last Monday night I had the opportunity to attend Spike Lfle's talk at the Stepan Center. I found his ideas and beliefs both insightful and thought provoking. I was, however, disturbed by one question from the audience. A football player, probably one of the best to play at the school this season, asked Spike Lee if he had done "the right thing." The player had re­ceived hate mail and criticism for negative comments he had directed towards his coach. The player, who is black, wanted to know if he was being criticized and harassed because he had done something wrong or be­cause he was black. 
The player's question touched on a theme discussed through­out the night-that minorities are often mistreated because of their race. This fact is unfortu­nate and the result of igno­rance. One must distinguish, however, between the unfair treatment a person receives be­cause of their race and the le­gitimate treatment a person re­ceives as a consequence if his or her actions. 
In this instance, the football player exercised poor judge­ment by airing his dirty laundry in the presence of national me­dia. Public criticism of the coach is not in the best interests of his team, regardless of the problem. The issue here, though, is not whether the player was right or wrong in publicizing his complaints, but whether the criticism he re­ceived was the result of his color. By acting as he did, the player could only have expected to receive criticism from die hard Notre Dame fans who love the football program and the school. A player of any race would receive the same re­sponse. 
I in no way condone the type of harassment the player has received, which undoubtedly in­cluded racial slurs. This is de­plorable. Nor do I wish to crit­icize him; he is a tremendous athlete who deserves nothing but respect. My only desire is that people of all races deter­mine if the treatment they re­ceive is the result of their skin color or of their actions. If the latter is the case, I would hope that individuals would accept responsibility for those actions. 
Joe Massman Alumni Hall 


Feb.6,1991 



Accent 
Tuesday, February 12, 1991
page 10 



MEETING AND DINING AREAS, AUDITORIUM 
This building will serve three major functions. 
a This section will house an 80-person dining area and catering kitchen, which both residents and large groups holding conferences can use.
II A second section will feature meeting areas, including seminar and conference rooms.
II The third section will be comprised of a 125-seat auditorium with translational and advanced telecommun­ications equipment. 
LIVING ROOM  BEDROOM  
KITCHEN  BATH  Left: sample configuration of one of the center's 1 5 one­bedroom  
apartments.  

RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 
Visiting scholars, who usually stay from six months to a year, will live in the 15 one­bedroom apartments. Five two-bedroom configurations are also available. 
OFFICE BUILDING 
Will house the Peace Institute on the first floor, and the Kellogg Institute on the second · floo 


BUILDING II FUTURE 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Managing Editor 

Construction is nearly complete on the $10 million Theodore M. Hesburgh Center for International Studies, the building which Don Dedrick. director of Physical Plant calls "one of the finest buildings in South Bend." 
Located just south of the University Club on Notre Dame Avenue, the Center was created in order to "foster international peace, international understanding and international relations," Dedrick said. 
The Center will accomplish this with advanced meeting facilities, a residential building for visiting international fellows, and large areas of common space to promote informal gatherings. 
In addition to its residential and meeting capabilities, the Center will be the new home for the Institute for International Peace Studies and the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
The cost of the building was underwritten by a $6 million gift from Joan Kroc, widow of McDonald's founder Ray Kroc. 
The Center actually consists of three individual buildings with over 48,000 square feet of space. "It's like a little village of buildings," Dedrick said. One building will house the offices of the Kellogg and Peace Institutes, the second will be 
Hesburgh Center focuses on international peace, understanding and relations 
the residential building, and the third will house dining, meeting and auditorium facilities. 
The residential and office buildings are complete. "The third building will be completed around the first week of March," Dedrick said. 
This third building will serve three main functions, Dedrick said. 
One section will house an 80­person dining area, complete with a catering kitchen. This area can be used by the residents of the Center as well as by large groups who are having conferences in the Center, Dedrick said. 
A second section of the building will house meeting areas including two 40-seat seminar rooms and a 15-seat conference room. 
The last section of this building is a 125-seat auditorium, featuring complete translational equipment and advanced tele-communications equipment, Dedrick said. 
"It will have television equipment with both uplink and downlink capabilities," he added. "Hopefully, meetings could be transmitted by satellite to Russia or China or wher­ever." 
The residential building features 15 one-bedroom apartments and five two-bedroom apartments. Visiting scholars, who generally stay at Notre Dame for periods of six months to a year, will live in the apartments, Dedrick said. 
The three-floor office building will house the Peace Institute on the first floor. The second and third floors will house the Kellogg Institute, Dedrick said. 
The three buildings will surround a central outdoor "formal garden" that will be used for casual interaction when the weather permits, Dedrick said. 
"The whole intent of the garden is that there's informal interaction outside of a lecturer-audience setting," Dedrick said. 
The firms that designed and built the Center are no strangers to Notre Dame. 
Ellerbe-Becket, of Minneapolis, designed the center. They have been designing most of the "significant" buildings on campus since 1952, Dedrick said. 
"They were originally brought in by Mr. O'Shaugnessy to design O'Shaugnessy Hall in 1952 and have been the University's principal's architect ever since." 
H.G. Christman, the building's general contractor, has built the 
Hesburgh Library, the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, Stepan Chemistry Hall and the addition to Nieuwland Science Hall, Dedrick said. 
Because the firms are so closely affiliated with Notre Dame, the Center will feature materials familiar to many other buildings on campus. 
The building will feature the Mankato stone, limestone and copper that can be found in the Hesburgh Library, Decio Faculty Hall and in the new Edward J. DeBartolo Classroom Building. 
"We try to keep a simple palette of materials without introducing a lot of new materials," Dedrick said. 
In addition to the gift for the construction of the building, Mrs. Kroc originally donated another $6 million to establish the Peace Institute. 
The idea to build the Center was conceived when Mrs. Kroc donated the original gift. Planning on the building's construction began in 1986, when she donated the second gift, Dedrick said. 
Anti-nuclear activist Helen Caldicott spoke at the building's ground breaking ceremonies on May 5, 1988. 
While the building should be complete by mid-March, a formal dedication is not scheduled until September, Dedrick said. 
-~-~--~--~-------·-----------~-~-~-----~ 
The Observer Tuesday, February 12, 1991 
from an opening-round setback ever, DiLucia beat Mississippi's ing 24 out of the 27 points. the Irish returned from to California's Bent Pedersen to Nick Barone, 6-2, 6-7, 7-6 on Bloomington last year with a 6­

Tennis 
win the consolation bracket and Saturday afternoon. A 10 p.m. The Irish (3-2) will be shoot­0 win, don't expect such a one­take fifth-place in the pres­start in the back-draw finals ing for their fourth consecutive sided victory this afternoon. 
Continued from page 14 
tigious indoor tournament. didn't affect DiLucia, ranked win after a sweep of Minneapolis. While the duo had sixth nationally, as he took Northwestern. Purdue, and "They return their entire to retire from first-round dou­After catching Pedersen, a Harvard's Mike Zimmerman in Colorado. Indiana has lost only team and have beaten a Kansas bles action due to Coleman's leg member of Norway's Davis Cup straight sets, 6-0, 7-6. DiLucia one match, which came at the team that beat Tennessee," said injury, DiLucia battled back team, on one of his best days caught fire in the first set, tak-hands of Tennessee. Although Bayliss. "They scare me." 
The Observer accepts classilleds every business day from t 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline lor next-day classilieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including all 

Classifieds 
spaces. 


NOTICES 
CLUB THE QUESTIONS: GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms I need a ride to Cleveland/JCU Daily Specials. New addition: 1) What is Charlie's last name? the weekend of the 15th. Will 
FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, Ramada Inn of Elkhart, 23 
HOCKEY, HORSEBACK· for ENGLISH, JUGGLING, KARATE. Graduation weekend. Located at The Coffee House pay gas, tolls. Call Erin 1715. LACROSSE, NATURE, Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart Bring your books and come 2) What were the names of the 6 
PHOTOGRAPHY, PIANO, (12 miles from South Bend) study, or just come socialize. people he lived with? STOP THE WAR 287-4082 ROCKETRY, ROLLERBLADING, Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 Open daily 4pm-3am. wear white arm bands ROPES, SAILBOARDING, deposit per room. Send lener with 3) What did Charlie get for his 
NY TIMES, used and new books SAILING, SCUBA, SOCCER, deposit to 30 11 birthday? SUPPORT THE TROOPS Pandora's Books 233·2342 TRACK, WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, BRING THEM HOME NOW corner of ND ave. & Howard WOOD. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
IN 46514. CLUB 23 wear white arm bands 1 0·5:30 everyday DROP BY FOR INFORMAL INTERVIEW ON THURSDAY, NICE FURNISHED HOMES Daily Specials. New addition: IN MOURNING OF THE WORD PROCESSING ·Term FEB. 21, IN LAFORTUNE'S GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH The Coffee House Anention Seniors !Ill VICTIMS OF WAR DOOLEY ROOM AND OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL Bring your books and come wear white arm bands
papers, reports, leners, etc. study, or just come socialize. All night basketball torney is 
Experienced legal secretary. SORIN ROOM FROM 11 AM-5 YEAR 2773097 Open daily 4pm-3am. coming March 1. Start getting your University Allied Publishers, Inc. 
(616) 699·7387. PM. 
FREEDOM! Rent the best houses. four player teams together today seeks motivated, entreprenurial TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER Prime locations. 233-and look for more info. next weeki students interested in a campus
SUPPORT WAR VICTIMS GIVE BLOOD CHILDREN'S CAMPS· 
9947. Call class office with any ?? from 3-venture. Great resume builder, THEODORES WED 13 NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN CLUB 23 5 Mon.-Fri. opportunity for very good money. SIGN UP CSC WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN Affordable 5,4,2 bedrm. homes No capital required. Call David THE NORTHEAST. GOOD for '91-'92. Beach Daily Specials. New addition: I need a ride to I.U. Feb 15 Carlock at (617) 894-5575. 
The Coffee House Call Missy 2577 $ 
SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, V-ball ct., washer/dryer, 
safe area. 288-5653 or Bring your books and come PRINCE OF DARKNESS, MC blue station wagon FOR INFORMAL INTERVIEW 234-3831 study, or just come socialize. HOLY DIRECT ADDRESS, RICHARD, RETARD· Open daily 4pm-3am. BATMAN I! II JESTER IS PLAYING 
MISSING: Two bags stolen from a TRAVEL EXPENSE. DROP BY 
Feb. 9 during B.P.'s formal at ON THURSDAY, FEB. 21, IN Use Your Imagination AT CLUB 23, THURS.
the Marnot. One red, one pink­LAFORTUNE'S DOOLEY ROOM FOUR BEDROOMS · TWO 12 Hours is a Long Time! 
AND SORIN BATHS HOUSE, AVAILABLE FEB. 14th. AND WE'RE IN LUCK! ("HUH HUH HUH")
filled wlclothes, books, etc. AUGUST 1. CLOSE TO NOTRE VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS THEY START AFTER THE OBVIOUSLY, YOU DON'T KNOW 
Any info, please call Megan ROOM FROM 11 AM-5 PM. DAME. CALL 234-9364. VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS INDIGO GIRLS CONCERT! THE NUMBER OF WAYS TO 
Thomas at x1BB4. SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)· WORK OUT. DON'T WORRY, I'LL 
SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS· It's not too early to submit your BILL AND TED-TEACH YOU. WE WOULD APPRECIATE NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN FINANCE CLUB MEMBERS: 
FOR SALE classifieds for Valentine's Day. Thanks for an EXCELLENT XOXO, RODNEYLOVER YOUR VOTE WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO Don't wait until the last minute · weekend!! Always remember and SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL FOR SALE : Sound System for bar come in anytime SOON. never forget: Going to I.U. or Indy for the MARINA POULAKIDAS POOL AND LAKES IN THE band. In Good Shape. 1. The scary thing is, he actually weekend (2115 -2117)? Take me NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, Reasonable Price. Call: CARDS-CANDY-CANDLES likes twirling that baton! tool! Will help with gas $$. Julie
TONY YOCUM SCOTI HAZEN ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL Kevin X349B or John X1166. Be Sweet on Valentine's DayI 2. Are you going to the party or x3851. 
Novelties and Necessities just back to her room? 
NACIBE CADRE EXPENSE. DROP BY FOR AN 3. I'm ticklish in only one spot in Valentines
INFORMAL INTERVIEW ON WED FEB 13 ON THURSDAY, FEB. 21, IN TICKETS 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER the entire world! 239-6714 4. Is that yours or hers?
HAYES HEALY 10:30-2:30 LAFORTUNE'S DOOLEY ROOM AND SORIN INDIGO GIRLS; need 1 ticket; The GREAT linle gift shop 5. The whole time I thought that test ad 
ROOM FROM 11 AM-5 PM. call Barb 284-5344 you were Bill and you were Ted? 
Two Holy Cross Associates Why didn't somebody tell me? PLEASE · I NEED AN INDIGO returned from Chile would like to 6. Let's go to the water fountain, share their experience with Tim. 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: Pair of gloves in 127 EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK GIRLS TICKET$$$ -JEFF -EVES interested people: 7. Oh my God, who's she with Nieuland. Call x4530. READING BOOKS AT HOME. . 272 9602 CALL 1·615-473·7440 EXT. B 340. 
Center for Social Concerns -now? I need 1 Tuesday, Feb. 12, 7:00pm B. Bill, do you iron?
FOUND: Searl in front of Library. 
Indigo girls ticket 9. Oops-it's 2 a.m. and time to
Call x4530. HELP! HELP! HELP! end our MEAN-ING-FUL
I need a couple of INDIGO GIRLS Call Crissy 
HELP I tickets for some out of town x296B EDITORIAL CARTOONISTS CON· VER-SA-TION II sought on a free-lance basis by 10. Will you call me in the
If anyone happened to pick up a guests-if anyone has any extras RETAILING textbook from 208 l,m sure they'll pay generously for local daily newspaper. Interest in morning? local and state news a must. Fee
Cushing could you please return it them! Thanks and Happy Wanted N.K.O.T.B tickets for April negotiable. To apply, send three Have a joyous Lenten season! 
to me? I have a test soon I Thanks! Valentine's Day! Call Kelly at 273· 7. Special birthday gift. Please Please call Tom at '2259 9442 (evenings are best!) call (219) 465-0101. cartoons dealing with local issues LOVE, to: IDA and FRENCHY 
TRIBUNE BOX F-25 SOUTH BEND, IN 46626 

""LOST"'' I am looking for a ride to anywhere 
GOLD LINK BRACELET · looks like in Virginia for Spring Break Help me outlllll 
CHICAGO

(XoXoXoX)· IN FARLEY,NDH,2nd (preferably Charlonesville or close I need two '"EXPO ROMA'" Escape Jr. Parents' Weekend...
FL LIBRARY, OR ANYWHERE ON to) Will help with expenses and 
CAMPUS. driving! Nancy 284·5082 INDIGO GIRLS '"EXPO ROMA'" take the '"EXPO ROMA'" WINDY CITY SHUTILE
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4046. Tickets. Will pay Come experience the beauty of to Chicago. 
the art and architecture of Rome, ONLY $10.00 
Found: -lady's ring at ACC NETWORK MARKETING: NEW $$$$ call Dave at ASSOCIATES WANTED. x3243 as presented by 4th-year Tickets at
before break 
DAYTONA BEACH

-scapular outside SYSTEM ESTABLISHED OVER architecture majors. LaFortune Info Desk. 
''""''ff9* 

FEB. 14 -FEB. 23 at the School of Howard 30 YEARS. SUBSTANTIAL 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND 
"""''f29*
Architecture Bldg. 

Call Dan @ 1 772 to identify PROFIT POTENTIAL. START SELL BUILDING FINANCIAL SECURITY INDIGO GIRLS TIX 
'"EXPO ROMA"' 
STEAMBOAT 
"0"''96*
..'EXPO ROMA'..

@@@@HELP I HELP! FOR YOUR FUTURE TODAY. TO ME FOR BIG $$$$ '"EXPO ROMA'" CONGRATULATIONS 
FORT LAUDERDALE "omSf~7*

HELP I@@@@ FLEXIBLE HOURS. ... Please! SLAMMERS' B·TEAMI 
CALL CHRIS AT x1 056

LOST A SINGLE PERAL EARRING UPPERCLASSMEN, GRADUATE 
PANAMA CITY BEACH •mm 1f24*

Thanks for Ianing us coach(?)
SOMETIME LAST WEEK. (9mm)l STUDENTS AND STAFF. 
you guys this season. Enjoy the 
CORPUS CHRISTl I

If found please call Beth SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY. 219­PERSONALS RIDE NEEDED. To Terre Haute repeat and maybe we'll see you
at #2467111 291-4722. 
MUSTANG ISLAND 
''""''IDS*

or vicinity(IU, Indy ... ) 2115. during softball season. 
LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 Please call Emily 284-5086 Thanks for the ride, 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND ''omlff2*

WANTED Your coaches(?), 
WANT TO SUB-LEASE DAYS ONLY $2791 JAMAICA & Chris and Dave 
DONT WAIT TIL IT'S TOO LATE 

APARTMENT OVER SUMMER. FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991 
CALL TOLL FREE TODAY

DAYTONA $1591 PANAMA CITY AnTostal '91 proudly presents: 
Summer job mterviews · Average CALL BLAIZE X1654 NEED MONEY? GET YOUR TAX$99! SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1­earnings $3900. University 
t·800·32t·59tt

REFUND IN AS FAST AS 3-5 
800-638-6786. THE BAR® DAYS WITH MAIL BOXES ETC. 
Directories, the nation's largest FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM 
publisher of campus telephone $1000 in just one week. This wacky and zany AnTostal $5 OFF WITH ND/SMC !D. 
directories, hires over 250 college Earn up to $1000 for your campus Adoption: Loving couple, doctor students for their summer sales organization. Plus a chance at and teacher, longing to share our fund-raiser can earn you a VCR, a ON SR 23, PAST IRONWOOD. program. Top earnings $5,000· $5000 morel This program works! love with newborn. We'll give your dozen pizzas to Barnaby's, or a CALL 277-6245. 
baby a caring, warm, and happy $50 gift certificate to the NO 
8,000. Gain valuable experience in No investment needed. Caii1­advertising, sales and public B00-932-0525 Ext. 50. 
home. Expenses paid. Call Carol Bookstore. Every time you and Frank collect 212-874-3537. purchase the 3oz. Catherine Eisner SPRINGBREAK DAYTONA! 
relations selling yellow page 
chocolate bar (Almond or Crunch) Fun in the sun on the beach in our
advertising for your campus for $1 from an AnTostal '91 Rep NEW Flamingo Inn. Rated
telephone directory. Positions also Student Wanted: Make $2000.00 
you increase your chances of AAA excellent. Call now 1-904­
available in other university this semester selling !-shirts and CLUB 23 winning a Golden Ticket® that 252-1412.
markets. Expense paid training sweatshirts to fraternites and Daily Specials. could win you one of these 
program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking sororities.. Southern Marketing New addition: 
:;(''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''~

800-444-2708. The Coffee House valuable prizes. We have what it takes to make ~ Jeff Burgfechtel's ~ for enthusiastic, goal-oriented your Valentine happy! 
Bring your books and comestudents for challenging, well· 

~ 3rd Annual ~ 

paying summer job. Internships "2 1 -way airline tickets to San study, or just come socialize. But wait! There's yet another way Francisco, Feb. 27. $100 Open daily 4pm-3am. to win! By simply answering THE COUNTRY HARVESTER ~ Spring Break Party ~ 
may be available. Interviews on 
correctly the 3 daily "Charlie and Lower Level LaFortune 
campus Friday, February 22nd. 684-7203." ~ ~ 
the Chocolate Factory" Questions M-F 12-5
Sign up at the Career & Placement ~ Daytona Beach or South ~ 
on a sheet of paper along with your UPS Service Daily Services. 
~Padre Island. For INFO and ~ 

name and phone # and putting it in
FOR RENT 
THE BOX® at the SUB SLuG,
SUMMER JOBS ~LAST CHANCE ~~ 
Receptionist's desk on the 2nd Plez cum bak soon 
~sign-up ~ 

COUNSELORS/SUMMER BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY CLUB 23 floor of LaFortune or 1st floor We mis you 
Haggar Hall (SMC) by 5 p.m. (one SMILE! ~Tues., Feb. 12 ~ Daily Specials. New addition: entry per person per day) you will Edward Bear ~ Montegomery Theater ~ 
CHILDREN'S 219-291-7153. 
CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP The Coffee House be entered Into a drawing for a
SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY.' HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to ~LaFortune 7pm ~ 
TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST campus. $150/month. Call Paul Bring your books and come hundred dollar bill (that's $100)1 Photography for Formals-Halls­Dances-ROTC. Call IHS ~or Call Jenn 284-5087 ~ 
study, or just come socialize. Photography at 234-8539. 
HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE 287-2159. 
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,j

Open dally 4pm-3am. GOOD LUCK! 
FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: 


ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL, 3 Bedroom Homes. 
Mr. AnTostal Need ride to Ll OR AREA for 
BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, Walk to campus. 
SB Can leave 3/7.$$ call2621 
DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS, 232-3616 

Tuesday, February 12, 1991 The Obser1er page 12 


Women 
continued from page 16 
club team. 
A field hockey team existed in club form in 1972, but accord­ing to records, did not officially begin varsity competition until the 1978-79 season. But the sport died young, as the field hockey team played its last game during the 1987-88 sea­son, less than a decade later. 
The fencing team, however, has redefined the word "flourish" with its enormous success. In only their first sea­son of competition, the Notre Dame women finished the year with a 2-3 record. In 1973-74, the Irish went 13-2, and have gone 208-52 since then, includ­ing two undefeated seasons (1986 and 1987) and one na­tional championship ('87). 
Aside from their one champi­onship, the Irish have enjoyed huge successes at the NCAA championships, with two sec­ond-places, one third, one sixth, one ninth and one twelfth-all since 1982. In addition, Notre Dame women have captured numerous Great Lakes championships. 
"We've been lucky," observed DeCicco, "because from the very beginning, our women have practiced with and had the same coaches as the men. They reaped the benefits of a well-established program and became very competitive very quickly." 
Foil fencer Anne Barreda, who placed third at the NCAA championships in 1988 and eighth in 1990 in addition to being named an All-American, described the current state of the team's competitiveness. 
·"The women's fencing team is highly competitive in our re­gion," noted Barreda, "but there is a great difference be­tween the national collegiate level and the national USFA (United States Fencing Association) level. Last year we lost a lot of talented, Olympic­quality fencers. We can no longer boast of such Olympic strength." 
The women's fencing team, because it is the first and only women's varsity sport to win an NCAA championship, provides a good vantage point to answer the next pressing question-is it the duty of the university to provide its female students with such a venue for their talents? The answer, of course, is an unqualified yes. To the question of whether having women's sports harms the university, the answer is no. 
"Intercollegiate athletics pro­vides an outlet for our stu­dents," observed DeCicco, "especially during those hours that they need to get away from their books. This isn't to say that sport is the only outlet, but students need a change-of-pace sort of activity which is good in the overall development of men and women as they go through college. Athletics forms a plat­form for which women can compete on an equal footing in sport-to match their skills on the playing field and gain all the accolades that come with it. 
"When I think of the few peo­ple who have had great success in winning medals, I see that sports still benefitted every one of them; some of their most beneficial experiences in college came through their athletic experiences. Athletic experience does have a place in academia, and the University of Notre Dame is good to acknowledge that." 

Debbie Brown, Notre Dame women's volleyball coach, con­curred. 
"Notre Dame seemed an at­tractive place to coach because of the emphasis it puts on the student-athlete graduating.," said Brown, who captained USC to a 72-1 record and national championships in 1976 and 1977, in addition to co-captain­ing the U.S. National and Olympic teams before serving as head coach at Arizona State for the better part of six years. 
"The number-one priority is graduation. Notre Dame is a great model for colleges across the country. It is not enough to just have teams and not be nationally competitive-that is not much fun. But it is no good to win national championships and not graduate." 
Brown inherited a volleyball team with a short but estab­lished history. After its incep­tion in 1980-81 and elevation to Division I status in 1982-83, the women's volleyball team has quickly ascended the ladder of success. 
Only three years into its Division I career, the volleyball team closed the season with a 33-7 record, which included a 17-match winning streak. The next year saw the team finish 30-9 after ranking as high as sixth in the NCAA Midwest Region, and the year after that, 1988-89, the women went 19­12, advancing to the Sweet Sixteen of the NCAA Tournament and finishing 15th in the NCAA poll. · 
NOTRE DAME WOMEN·s ATHLETICS SPORTS HIGHLIGHTS 
973-7 4 •Fencing begins first season as varsity sport 13-2 976-77 •Tennis begins first season as varsity sport 977-78 •Basketball begins first season as varsity sport, finishes13-4 
and wins Indiana AIWA Small College North District title 978-79 •Field hockey begins first season as a varsity sport 980-81 •volleyball begins first season as varsity sport 981-82 •swimming begins first season as a varsity sport, finishing 
21st in AIWA Division Ill championship 982-83 •volleyball begins competition at Division 1 level 
•Fencing team finishes 12th in NCAA championships 
984-85 •swimming team finishes 11-1, best mark in school history, with North Star Conference titleField hockey team finishes 15-5-2, best mark in school history 
985-86 •Fencing team finishes second in NCAA with perfect 23-0 record 
•Tennis team finishes 28-6, takes third straight North 
Star Conference title in first season at NCAA Division I level 986-87 •cross country begins first season as varsity sport 
•Fencing team wins NCAA championship 19-0 record 
•volleyball team finished 33-7, best mark in school history, including 17-match winning streak 987-88 •Fencing team wins second straight NCAA championship 
with 17-2 record 988-89 •Golf, softball and soccer begin first seasons as varsity sports 
•volleyball 
team finishes 19-12, advances to second round (final 16) of NCAA tournament and finishes 15th in final NCAA poll. 

•Fencing 
team finishes third in NCAA championships with 


18-1 record 990-91 •Track begins first season as a varsity sport 
•soccer 
team finishes 16-3-1, best mark in school history, including Midwestern Collegiate Conference title, finishes ninth in finaiiSAA Central Region poll 

•cross 
country team wins Midwestern Collegiate Conference title 


Except for the years 1980-84, 
cloud of confusion in 1990. His 
the Irish were coached by Art 
assistant, Maria Perez, served 
Lambert, who was named 
as Notre Dame's interim coach. 
North Star Conference Coach of 
Now, with Debbie Brown at the 
the Year in 1986. Lambert, 
helm, the Irish look to get back 
however, was dismissed in a 
on track. 

The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development and The Kellogg Institute present: 
Regional Consequences of the Gulf War 
featuring 


Rashid Khalidi 
Associate Professor of Modern Middle East History at the University of Chicago 
Recent guest on the MacNeill/Lehrer News Report 

Tuesday, February 12, 1991 6:30pm 120 Law School 

An invaluable opportunity to learn more about Syria, Lebanon & Palestine, as well as the Arab-Israeli conflict and the growth of nation-state nationalism in the Arab world. Don't miss it! 
Tuesday, February 12, 1991 The ObseNer page 13 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
•ND/SMC Women's Lacrosse will have a •There Will Be a Meeting for all students 
mandatory meeting today at 7 p.m. at Angela interested in helping with promotions for the 
Athletic Fadlity. For information call Cathy at 1991 Bengal Bouts at 7 p.m., Wednesday Feb. 
284-4456. 
13 in the Boxing Room at the Joyce ACC. 
•The ND/SMC Sailing Club will have its-.first
•Advanced Conditioning Class will start 
1991 meeting at 6:30 p.m. on Tuesday, Feb. 22 
Feb. 11 at 5:15 p.m. Mondays and 6:15 a.m. 
in Rm. 204 O'Shag. New members are welcome. 
Wednesdays and Fridays at the Loftus Sports Center. the class runs all three days from Feb. 
•The Hapkido Club meets Tuesday and 
11 through March 6. If interested, call 239­Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Rm. 219, Rockne.
7890 to register before 5 p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 
Learn self-defense. Beginners welcome. For12. 
more information, call Ron x3504. 



ICEBERG DEBATES 


ROUND THREE: 
RESOLVED: OPERATION DESERT STORM IS A JUST WAR 
ROUND THREE: TUESDAY FEBRUARY 12TH 9PM 
· CHECK DORM POSTERS FOR DETAILS 
4t 

~ T U D E.N T 
llfllllllf 


Swimming Belles blast Benedictine, 130-80 
the show in the 200 free, 500
By CHRISTINE PENOTE 
free and setting a new Saint
Sports Writer 
Mary's school record in the 200 fly. Also, Bethany ThompsonThe swimming Belles came 
was a double winner in the
away with yet another victory 1000 free and 200 back. 
this weekend, defeating Illinois Benedictine College, 130-80. 
Cooper was impressed withThe Belles were well Kathleen Golski as she excelledprepared for what was to be in the 100 and 50 free sprints.

one of their toughest "Her sprinting has improved
competitions. As a result, they drastically and she has shown
swam one of their best dual 
great leadership," said Cooper. 
meets of the season. 
The Belles (5-3) look forward"This meet wasn't as difficult to a second winning season in aas we anticipated," said Coach row. Their next meet is at RolfsDennis Cooper. "They just Aquatic Center as they swimdidn't have the numbers." 

against Olivet College Friday at
Sophomore Chris Smiggen 6p.m.
was a triple winner, stealing 



Johnson 
continued from page 16 
Johnson deemed it necessary to bark back at the crowd on a few occasions; once he went as far as to insult the mothers of a whole group of Irish students. At the end of the game, he celebrated the Syracuse victory by extending both middle fingers toward the Notre Dame student section. 
Johnson's deplorable conduct was probably an accurate representation of his overall character. One can only hope that the shameful actions of some of the Notre Dame stu­dents in the crowd isn't representative of the whole student body here. A ticket to a basketball game does not entitle anybody to rampantly defame an athlete's character, no matter how good a job the athlete does defaming his character by himself. 
any way I can, by playing good defense and rebounding, in

Nowlin 
order for it to meet its goals," Nowlin said. 
continued from page 16 
"I just want to help the team 
BRIDGET McGUIRES 
WED. FEB. 13, 1991 
8:00 pm -3:00 am 
SENIORS VALENTINE'S DAY PARTY 





SENIORS ONLY 
Jeff Burgfechtel's 3rd Annual Spring Break Party 
Option 1: Daytona Beach $179 Base Price ~Bus Transportation $274.00 
Option II: South Padre Island 
$239 Base Price .t....lZQ_Bus Transportation $359.00 
Trip Includes: 
• 
Eight Days/Seven Nights on the Daytona Beach Strtp or on South Padre Island 

• 
Free pool deck parties with refreshments 

• 
All taxes and tips 

• 
Optional side excursions 


LAST CHANCE SIGN-UP: TUES. FEB 12 MONTGOMERY THEATER or call 
LaFORTUNE 7pm JENNIFER JERMANO 
284-5087 
;:,ponsored Dy Campus Marllel•ng ,..,_,.,. -··--.......... • .... 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, February 12, 1991 
Women's tennis serves weekend ace, now 5-0 
By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
After opening the season with three strong road wins, the Notre Dame women's tennis team continued its successful ways, chalking up two home victories in the past three days. 
On Saturday, the Irish (5-0) swept Kansas State 8-0, with Melissa Harris posting a 5-7, 7­6, 6-2 victory in the most closely contested match of the day. Notre Dame overpowered Kansas State, with Lisa Tholen, Terri Vitale, Kim Pacella, Katie Clark and Kristy Doran taking their singles matches in straight sets. 
The tandems of Clark/Doran and Eniko Bende/Pacella also captured relatively easy wins at second and third doubles. The first doubles match was not played due to the length of the first singles contest, since Kansas State's number-one singles player plays first dou­bles as well. 
Irish number-one singles player Tracy Barton was rested for the Kansas State match after a strong performance at the National Indoor Intercollegiate Tennis Championships in Minneapolis last week. Barton, ranked 28th nationally, upset eighth-ranked Eveline Hamers of Kansas, a semifinalist in last year's NCAA tournament, by a 6-2, 6-3 score. 
Stanford's Sandra Birch, cur­rently the top-ranked player in the country, downed Barton 6­3, 6-0 in the second round. Birch won the NCAA singles ti­tle in 1989 for the Cardinal. 
Said Barton, "She runs down a lot of balls. Everything I hit would come back one more time. Her backhand is strong, and she slices it very low. Your game rises when you play bet­ter people, and I really felt like I was in there." 
With Barton out for Kansas State, the Irish shuffied around the singles lineup. "From two to five (singles) we are so equal that he (Irish coach Jay Louderback) could change the lineup at any time," said Harris. 
On Monday, the Irish defeated Purdue 8-2, with seven singles matches being played instead of the usual six. The team won six of the singles matches, with Harris, Vitale, Tholen, Pacella, Clark, and Catherine McGinley posting victories in second through seventh singles. Top singles player Barton lost to Erica Adams, ranked 18th na­tionally, 6-3, 6-3. 

"Tracy hung in there," said Louderback. "She said she hadn't beaten Erica since her freshman year in high school. Sometimes the mental factor may go against you. We lost at one and had close matches at two, three, and four, so Purdue is not a bad team. We played very strong in singles, but once the doubles came around I think we were a little tired." 
Clark and Doran lost at first doubles to Purdue's top two singles players 6-3, 6-3, but the Irish took the other two doubles matches. Bradshaw/Pacella won a tough three-set match at second doubles and BendeNitale recorded a 6-0, 6­0 shutout at third. 
Said Louderback, "In a match like tonight's, Lisa (Tholen) was sick, and we rest Tracy whenever we can because of her elbow. It's just a matter of getting everybody together to play. A lot of times there is no pressure on the doubles teams if you win the match after sin­gles." 
Notre Dame travels to Bloomington this coming week­end for very important matches 
The Observer I Kenneth Osgood Kristy Doran and the women's tennis team beat Purdue Monday night and Kansas State Saturday, improving their record to 5-0. 
against Indiana and South Indiana is ranked first in the Carolina, two top-25 teams, region, with Notre Dame sec­and also unranked William & ond, and a victory by the Irish Mary, which Louderback ex­could go a long way in helping pects to jump high into the the team gain a possible NCAA rankings in the next poll. tournament bid. 
Belles basketball can't find secrets of Hope, Rosary 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
Over the weekend, the Saint 
Mary's basketball team (9-8), in 
an aggressive effort to beat 
defending champion Hope 
College and Rosary College (24­
1), came up short of victory 
with losses to Hope, 68-59 and 
and to Rosemary, 83-76. 
In Saturday's game against 
Hope, Saint Mary's readmitted 
Catherine Restovich, a key 
player who had been out for 
two games due to illness. She, 
along with Janet Libbing, were 
the two Belles to score in dou­
ble digits with 10 and 18 
points, respectively. 
During the latter part of the first half, Saint Mary's experi­enced an eight minute lull in scoring which allowed Hope to take the lead at the half 36-25. 
"The eight-minute dead spot 
really hurt us," explained Saint 
Mary's coach Marv Wood. "It 
shook our confidence which 
proved doubly effective for 
Hope." 

Irish tennis to face IU today at Eck 
By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
In accordance with their re­lentless schedule, the 13th­ranked Notre Dame men's ten­nis team faces another top­notch opponent this afternoon at the Eck Pavilion. Indiana University (5-l) starts three seniors on a team that finished last season ranked first in the region and returns everyone from that squad, which finished second in the Big 10. Singles action begins at 3 p.m. with doubles to follow. 
Although the team will be playing its first match in over a week, junior All-American Dave DiLucia and doubles partner Chuck Coleman played in the Rolex National Indoor Intercollegiate Championships over the weekend at 
see TENNIS, page 11 
"We had played Hope earlier in the season, only losing to them by two points," said Wood. "Even though we had seen them before, one player, Robin Schout who had only taken one shot during our last encounter, ended up shooting 11 for 12. Our game prep did not include extensive coverage of her, which seemed to really hurt us. 
However, Saint Mary's proved that it was not out of the com­petition. The Belles came within three points with 2:30 remaining, yet it could not hold on as Hope scored eight in a row, ending the frustration that accumulated throughout the game. 
"There were too many turnovers which led us to a standstill," said Lib bing. "We had to play hard to get back in the game, but we fell too far behind." 
On Sunday against Rosary, the Belles came out strong with a 12-6 lead in the opening min­utes. However, Rosary's quick­ness and strong boards tied the game at 12. The Belles could not regain the lead. 

Saint Mary's kept the Rebels on their toes with four 3-point­ers by freshman Courtney Swift and three 3-pointers by Libbing. Rosary had he lead at the half by 10, but Saint Mary's cut it to 77-7 4 with 3:42 left. Even though the Belles experi­enced a great comeback, the game ended with the Rebels defeating Saint Mary's 81-76. 
"This was the quickest team we have played this year by far," explained Wood. "We took the press off and succeeded in the second half." 
Saint Mary's has a very strong bench, which was an in­tegral part in their comeback against both Hope and Rosary. Saint Mary's will now turn its attention toward Grace College, which they will host next Thursday. Then they play Division II University of Wisconsin Parkside Sunday. 




SOPHOMORES: 
THE PROBLEM : JPW THE SOLUTION: ESCAPE TO CHICAGO 
FEB. 16-17 FOR $50 STAY AT DAYS INN ON LAKE SHORE DR. INCLUDES SECOND CITY SHOW. 
Limited Tix Still Available!!! Hurry, Hurry, Hurry to 213 LaFortune from 3-5 p.m. 
For more info, call 239-5225 
The Observer/Michlle Roch 
Annie Hartzel (23) applies pressure in Saturday's loss to Hope College. 
JUNIORS; GUESS WHAT? 
Todayisthelastdayfor picking up registration 

packets. Come to the Sorin Room between 6pm -lOpm tonight. 

Tuesday, February 12, 1991 page 15 
LECTURES CROSSWORD 
Tuesday 
3:30 p.m. Graduate seminar, "Liquid Circulation and Backmixing in Bubble Columns Via Carpt," Prof. M.P. Dudukovic, Washington University, St. Louis, MO. Hoom 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. Sponsored by chemical engineering. 
4:15 p.m. American Catholic Studies Seminar, "John Carroll, First Bishop of Baltimore, and His Views on Women," Mary Ann O'Ryan, Loyola University, Chicago. Lounge, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Cushwa Center. 
6:30 p.m. Lecture, "Hegional Consequences of the Gulf War," Hashid Khalidi, University of Chicago, Hoom 120, Law School. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and Council on International Business Development. 

27 Unique 

4 Interviewer's 
CAMPUS 30 Actress Peeples 60 Wading bird activity 
Tuesday 
7 p.m. Film, "Buies of the Game." Annen berg Auditorium, Snit11 Museum. 
7:30 p.m. Charismatic prayer meeting and Mass, Log Chapel. 
9:15 p.m. Film, "Un Chien!Lage D'or." Annenb11rg Auditorium, Snite Mus11um. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Oven Fried Chicken Make Your Own Burrito Bar Garden Vegetable Quiche Baked Chicken with Herbs 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
00 '(OJ •. l MEAN, Do~S HOBBES WAl-l\ Jl-1'1'( 1\JNf.. 
FIS\1 1\.1\S W£H:.;. 
9::> WW.T!X:lES  FR£51-\ ~ORDFISI\  MM 1-\MM  
140BB£S L\\(f  STEf..\(5.  l-IE  ~W ASOOT  
NClW 11'151RD 7  LIKES TI-IEM  PEf!..N\l\  
/  GRILL£0 0\l\SID£.  8\JffiR'?  

ACROSS 31 Fruit punch 63 Famed British 32 Gave grades clipper ship 
1 Killer whales 34 Kind of wave or 65 Solitary6 Speaker's phone 66 Hosea, in the platform 38 Cease activity Douay Bible 10Con game 40 Ten make a 67 N.Y. canal 14 Kind of code decade &B Philippine15 Besides 42 Follow a invasion site 16Japanese suspect 69 Witheredwrestling 43 Fact 70Concrete17 Feed the ship's 

45 "I'll Walk Alone" 
ingredientboilers 
songwriter 

71 Awful result of 18 Multi-hulled 
47 Honey maker 
burning desire craft 
48 Roman sun god20 New Zealand 
50 Nonconform­

bird DOWN
ist's problem 21 Actress 
52 Rodent or 1 Soviet city Granville hoarder founded in 171622 That girl 56 Heavenly 2 Roast, in Rouen23 Curl the lip hunter 3 Ship's lofty 25 Type of chair 57 Flightless bird lookout 

58 For each 


5 Bishopric & Embellishes ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Trammell of the Tigers B Suffix with real or ideal 
9 Ike's second Sec. of the Interior 
Fr. 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

26 Mark time 27 Variety of quartz 2BThought 29 Gaucho's lasso 33 Ashore for hull 
repairs 35 Sailing ships' serving lads 36 Nothing, in 
Nantes 37 Actor Vidov 39 Elephant's 
incisor 41 Trap 
SPELUNKER 

44 Savage eel 55 Papal 46 Steeple adornment ornament 59 The Shamrock Isle
49 Memory blanks 61 Antonym for out 51 Tillie of old ofcomics 62 Homophone for 52 Tex. river 
scene 53 Entertain 
64 Golfer's peg 54 More winsome 65 In the style of 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 


Give your parents and friends .. the real scoop on college life 
I 

Send them a subscription to The Observer 
And have the latest news and sports from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's delivered to your home for $25 a semester. 
Send to: 
The Observer 
P.O.Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name 
Address 

City State Zip 


Sports 
page 16 Tuesday, February 12,1991 
Yo-yo season not going to get Digger Phelps down 

By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

To the untrained eye, the fortunes of the Notre Dame basketball team may seem to float and spin like a yo-yo. 
Digger. Phelps, however, is a coach with a keenly trained eye. And Digger's eyes tell him that his team is once again on the prowl. Yet he is careful not to gaze far beyond tonight's 8:30 EST road matchup with the Marquette Warriors. 
"Right now, our goal is to beat Marquette," stated Phelps at his mid-day press conference. "All we have ever done is try to stay in focus with our next game. 
"I think we've played very, very well since the Virginia game. We had four games in eight days and it caught up 
'Established' sports thriving 
Women's fencing, volleyball show Irish commitment 

By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
WOMEN 

Editor's Note: This is the first of 
IN a four-part series on women's 
SPORTS
sports at Notre Dame. 
On Sept. 2, 1972, approxi­mately 300 women registered as undergraduates at the University of Notre Dame. 
In the fleeting 18 years since that time, women at Notre Dame have strived and strug­gled to forge a tradition of ex­cellence not only in academics, but in athletics. While academic excellence is more a matter of individual effort, athletic excellence can only be the product of students, coaches and the university (through the athletic department) acting in unison. 
Yet two issues arise concern­ing women in sports. 
First, although Notre Dame has long been associated with sporting prowess, it should not be forgotten that the develop­ment of programs can be 

..... 
painstaking. Despite the abun­dant documentation of the rise of Irish football and basketball legends, comparatively little is widely known about the foun­dations of women's athletics at Notre Dame. 
Second, despite the furious attempts at intellectual discus­sion concerning the detrimental role of athletics in college, little or no consideration has been given to whether or not women's sports are harmful to a university. 
Both questions will be ap­proached in terms of estab­lished teams (fencing and vol­leyball), teams nearing firm establishment (basketball and swimming), new teams with successful starts (soccer, tennis and softball), and teams in their first seasons (cross-coun­

with us against Boston College and Duke. We have the same kind of situa­tion coming up this week. Our success depends on how we rest, the nine games left and our ability to stay focused as we go along." 
Yet current events may prove some­thing of an astigmatism for Notre Dame's vision-current events such as a cliff­hanging 70-69 weekend loss to Syracuse and an earlier season 80-73 win over the same Warriors the Irish will face tonight in Milwaukee. 
Yet optometrist Phelps is not about to let a case of rosy pinkeye cost his team a much-desired road win. 
"Marquette presents us with a lot of concerns," explained Digger. "Dayton beat them by 22 at Dayton, but Marquette won by two at home this 
try, track, golO. 
Saint Mary's athletics are a different case. Because of the all-female heritage of Saint Mary's College and current NCAA Division III status, Belles teams both require and deserve separate and more focused treatment. 
The vanguard of Notre Dame women's varsity athletics was the fencing team, coached by Michael DeCicco. Prior to 1972 and in anticipation of the im­pending coeducational trans­formation, Father Edmund Joyce approached DeCicco, a professor of Mechanical Engineering, about forming a varsity program for Notre Dame women. 
A number of women-spouses and daughters of faculty and staff, as well as graduate stu­dents-already had been train­ing and practicing with the Irish men's team in addition to competing on their own as a 
see WOMEN, page 12 
Nowlin learning role of leader 
Women's 6-1 center improving as Butler visits Irish 

By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame women's basketball team heads down the homestretch of its season, junior Margaret Nowlin has stepped her game up a notch. 
The Irish face Butler tonight at 7:30 in what could prove to be the toughest matchup in conference play so far for them. Several MCC coaches believe Butler is the one team in the league which can beat Notre Dame. 
"Butler has good chemistry and an excellent starting unit," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "If those five get it to­gether like they did against Vanderbilt (a 91-88 victory) they are capable of giving us a good game." 
Notre Dame faced the Bulldogs in early January, de­feating them 80-64 in Indianapolis. However, Julie VonDielingen (19.1 ppg, 9.5 rpg), the MCC's top scorer and rebounder, did not play due to an injury. Nowlin expects Butler to be a totally different team with its top player back. 
"It will give Butler a big lift to have her (tonight)," she said. 
Saturday. I don't think that (Mark) Anglavar and (Trevor) Powell played well against us here at Notre Dame. (Ron) Curry and Damon Key both shoot well. They also have a bench that makes things happen. 
"We expect to face Marquette in a positive situation for them. They're due to explode with their outside shooting. They're having their own growing pains with younger players like we are. Marquette justs wants to win now-they have the ability to turn it on in the MCC tournament like Dayton did last year. And we know they're looking forward to playing us at Marquette." 
For the Irish, the rematch with Marquette comes at a good time. Notre Dame is not heading to Wisconsin simply in the hopes of winning a game. The 
"It's going to help them out a lot to know that they'll have her." 
And it helps the Irish to have Nowlin. 
The Saint Paul, Minnesota native leads the team in rebounding with a 6. 7 per game average, scores 10.3 points and leads the team in blocked shots. McGraw calls Nowlin the team's most improved player this year. 
"She's playing really well around the basket right now," McGraw said of her 6-1 center. "She's shooting well, she's re­bounding well, and she's really matured as a player. She's been a key for us in a lot of games." 
One of Nowlin's greatest ar­eas of improvement according to McGraw is her defensive play. Against Tennessee, she drew All-American Daedra Charles as her assignment, and held her to only 13 points. Tonight, Nowlin will go head­to-head with VonDielingen 
"She can shoot both inside and outside," Nowlin said. ''I'm going to have to keep her from getting the ball as much as I can, and when the shot goes up, block her out and get the rebound before she does." 
Nowlin has become more of a 
Student body's antics show poor judgment 
Saturday was a sad day for Notre Dame. Not just because the Irish lost another close game, this one a 70-69 decision to seventh-ranked Syracuse. 
It seems that certain members of the student body believe that since they have bought tickets, they can say whatever they like to Irish opponents at the Joyce ACC. Fans would not have been satisfied with K 
l · C 
beating the Orangemen. They wanted to en YSI8 humiliate them as well. World of Sports The target of the Notre Dame fans was,________ 
Syracuse forward David Johnson, who had recently been disciplined for having improper sexual relations with a young girl. Johnson was ordered to perform community service, 
undergo counseling and apologize in writing to the girl, but he was allowed to play against the Irish. Some of the Christians in the crowd were very happy to cast the first stone at Johnson. And the second. And the third. 
Throughout the game the Orangemen's second-leading scorer was subject to catcalls, insults, and a loud, taunting chant of "jail bait, jail bait" whenever he touched the ball. Saturday won't be the end of it, either. He will be cursed and jeered in the arenas of Syracuse's Big East opponents as well. But it shouldn't happen at Notre Dame. 
I am not defending Johnson's actions. In fact, his conduct at the end of the game probably proved that all the bad things the crowd was saying about him were true. 
see JOHNSON, page 13 
Irish, rather, are looking to continue polishing the respect which they have doggedly earned this season. 
"The way we handled LaSalle shocked a lot of people," admitted Phelps, "and so did the way we handled Syracuse. Tim Singleton and Kevin Ellery are tak­ing charge, though. Daimon Sweet, Elmer Bennett and Keith Tower have developed into what we thought they would be. You can imagine already how they'll perform as seniors. 
"A lot of people said we wouldn't do anything after we lost Phonz. We ad­justed against Marquette and Virginia-you've got to give credit to the kids and the way they stepped up and competed. I give them credit for stepping up and responding and credit to what we do as coaches to beat teams." 
team leader this year, which gives Notre Dame hope for the future. Coming into the season, McGraw was looking for some­one to replace seniors Krissi Davis and Karen Robinson as leader, and in Nowlin, her search has ended. 
"She's matured as a player," McGraw said. "Margaret should step in that role as the leader, the person with control underneath. She's learning a lot more about being a leader, and next year, she'll be able to take over, which will help ease the transition from losing Krissi." 
Nowlin looks forward to the day when she assumes the leadership position, but for now, she learns from Davis. 
"We all look to Krissi now as a calming influence," she said. "I hope that when she leaves, I can take over that role, espe­cially since next year, we'll have such a young team." 
But for now, Nowlin focuses on this season. With seven games left before the confer­ence tournament, the Irish hope to wrap up the MCC title and head toward the NCAA tourney in March with a nine­game win streak. 
see NOWLIN, page13 








