
VOL. XXIII NO. 105 MONDAY , MARCH 4, 1991 · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MAR'f'S 
Iraq agrees to allied cease-fire conditions 
SAJiWAN. Iraq (API -Allied and Iraqi military leaders agrend Sunday to a tentative cease-fire and a quick release of war prisoners in a dramatic meeting of commanders at a captun~d desert airstrip in southern Iraq. 
"I am very happy to tell you we agrned on all matters," U.S. Army Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf told a crowd of soldiers and journalists after the two-hour meeting in a tent beside the crushed-stone run­way. 
lie announced that a "symbolic release" of POWs would bn madfl immediately to show good faith, and that "all detainees," including several thousand Kuwaiti civilian hostages held by Iraq. would be treatnd as war prisoners. 
Iraq's U.N. ambassador, Abdul Amir al-Anbari, said in New York that Iraq had re­leased 10 POWs already, among them six Americans, "including one of them the young lady that was captured." 
Schwarzkopf. the U.S. com­mander in the Persian Gulf, and other allied chiefs refused to say whether they had learned how many POWs are held by Iraq. The U.S. command knows of at least nine Americans. The only woman U.S. soldier listed as 

OPERATION 
DESERT STORM 
• 
Weekend roundup I page 7 

• 
Baker on future I page 7 


missing in the war is Army Spc. Melissa Rathbun-Nealy, 20, of Grand Rapids, Mich. 
He said U.S. troops would withdraw from occupied south­ern Iraq as soon as a perma­nent cease-fire was signed and Iraq has complied with U.N. resolutions. Those resolutions say Iraq must, among other things, rescind its annexation of Kuwait and accept liability for war damages in the emirate. 
About 12 hours after the meeting in Safwan, Baghdad Radio announced that Iraq has accepted the tougher U.N. con­ditions. That acceptance could clear the way for a permanent cease-fire in the Persian Gulf War. 

5 pIa s h The Olsefver/.bl Flibe Vince Casingal enters the water in the Rockne Memorial Gym's pool during an NV A-sponsored SCUBA class Sunday as Assistant Instructor Leo Couch looks on. 
In other developments Sunday: 
GULF ROUNDUP saturday, March 2 

• Iran's official radio re­
Diplomatic Front Cease-fire terms

ported violence between Iraqis 

The U.N. Security Council 
Baghdad

and government forces during 
discussed adoption of a radio said

demonstrations against 
U.S.-sponsored resolution dictating allied that adele­

Saddam Hussein in at least 
-demands that Iraq must meet before aformal gation had

four cities. Tehran radio said 
cease-fire is adopted in the Gulf War. been appointed to meet

refugees fleeing Iraq for Iran reported "severe clashes" in 
Sunday with allies to

CBS·TV Crew 
work out cease-fire

the cities of Basra, Al-Amarah, 
Iraqi authorities released alour-man crew, including 
arrangements "and other

Nassiriya and Kut. Washington 
correspondent Bob Simon, in points on the

repeatedly has urged Iraqis to 
overthrow Saddam, but U.S. officers say they don't know _:."~ ~ whether civil unrest in Iraq ·"-·...s ·--­
has become widespread. 
r 
... ·r,......_..-Bagh~ IRAN

• Saddam began the long process of rebuilding his war­ISRAEL ~·i ·-:-... IRAQ 
.. h,_.··1 ,:-:· ~ JORDAN Basra Kuwait City

torn nation and restoring his image as a regional leader to I i/ SAUDI ARABIA ..----:~ • ,.~----­
be reckoned with. Baghdad Radio reported Sunday that he 
!. / Cease-fire VIolation_____, 01~ ,;;:.,

led two meetings dealing with 
~ • An Iraqi armored · KUWAIT , Sulf

the restoration of Iraqi com­1 
• column opened ._.

munications, the first report of 1 
; fire Saturday on Homeward Bound ..

his activities since Tuesday. 
U.S. Army troops who reacted by • Hundreds of
I
i Red destroying or capturing 140 tanks. Kuwaiti cars, personal (

In Safwan, two Iraqi army 
· Slla ·~ belongings strapped to

lieutenant generals, Sultan 
' • Two more Americans were killed their roofs, clogged

Hasheem Ahmad and Salah 
by land mine explosions. roads from Saudi Arabia

Abbud Mahmud, led the eight­
to Kuwait Saturday.

member Iraqi delegation to the tent rendezvous. U.S. sources 
Prisoners of War identified Ahmad as Saddam's 
• U.S. officials said Basra
The Red Cross says Iraq has announced 

deputy chief of staff. or third­was in chaos. overrun by
it is ready to exchange prisoners of war,

ranking man in the defense Iraqi troops fleeing
the British government said Saturday.

establishment. Mahmud was Kuwait. the Iraqi 3rd Corps comman­der, the sources said. AP 


Five ND students attacked 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
when they decided to call a the group remained at a dis­

News Writer 
taxi, Hurley said. tance of about 30 yards from 
While one of the members of the phone booth. the group was walking to a According to the victim, one

Five Notre Dame students 
telephone booth at a service of the suspects approached himwere hospitalized, including 

one who was severely injured, station near the intersection of and accused him of "talking when they were attacked off­Elwood and Portage streets. a trash." The student in the campus by a group of South group of five males drove by in phone booth denied doing so 
Bend area residents, early a red and white Ford Bronco and told him to go away, thon Saturday morning, according yelling derogatory comments to returning to his conversation Chuck Hurley, assistant director the students, one of the victims with the taxi company. of Security. said. 
According to this victim, some As a result, he was hit across A group of five males from of the NO students yelled back his head with a baseball bat at the South Bend area and knocked out. The suspect
Notre Dame and four Saint 
Mary's students were walking residents causing the residents then went over to the rest of 
from a party they attended in a to stop their car and first ap­the group where the victim nearby neighborhood on the proach the individual in the 
see ATTACK I page 4 

north-west side of South Bend, phone booth, while the rest of 
Raid on McCormicks' brings 4 arrests 
By MONICA YANT Moon. Police did not test the $500. False identification is also Associate News Editor minors for blood alcohol con­a Class C misdemeanor, he said. tent. Both misdemeanors are decided 
A Thursday night raid at Mc­After Thursday's raid, Moon by a judge at a determined Cormicks' Coney Island by the said the S.U.D.S. Task Force is court <late. St. Joseph's County S.U.D.S. sending a message to minors, McCormicks' was also cited Task Force netted four arrests "that we are still alive and well by state excise police and will for 'minor in tavern,' according in St. Joseph County, and we're go before the alcohol and bev­to Sgt. James Moon of the South out there." erage commission. which de­Bend Police Dept. Three of the "Our main purpose is not to termines penalties for business' four cited were students at go out and take everybody who violations. Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. violates the law to jail," he said. 
The raid on McCormicks', lo­"It's to drastically reduce the In related news, officials from cated on 125 N. Michigan, came amount of (underage) drinking Club 23 and Bridget's met with less than a week after police that's going on." the St. Joseph County Alcoholic arrested 92 minors at Club 23 The S.U.D.S. Task Force is Beverage Board Wednesday to and Bridget McGuire's Filling comprised of members of the discuss last week's arrests. The Station. South Bend Police, St. Joseph owners of both bars claimed the County Police, Indiana State high number of underage 
Police received complaints Police and Indiana State Excise drinkers in their establishments that there were underage pa­Police. was due to excessive use of trons inside McCormicks', and a 'Minor in tavern' is a Class C false identification. raid was conducted at 11:54 misdemeanor. If found guilty, Each bar was issued a warn­
p.m. Of the four minors ar­the minors are punishable un­ing, and license renewal for rested, three were cited for der state law by up to 60 days Club 23 and Bridget's will be false identification, according to in jail and a maximum fine of decided in late July. 
page 2 Monday, March 4, 1991
The Observer 

FORECAST: Mostly sunny and warmer Monday with highs in the low 40s and lows around 30. For Tuesday, sunny and mild with highs in the 50s. TEMPERATURES: 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Seniors avoid reality and the 'g-word' 
As of this column, there are a mere 85 days left for the seniors. That may seem like a lot, but i"n comparison to the 1,080 days (approximately) that 
made up our four years 
Colleen Cronin 
here, it is only a few 
Accent Editor 
minutes. 
Within the same week I received in the mail a notice about what will appear on my diploma. the announcement for Senior Formal, and the latest issue of Notre Dame Magazine-the magazine for alums.. 
They should have spre~d out all that reality over the course of two or three weeks. This means I have to start saying that evil tO-letter g-word: graduation. 
In the beginning of this school year I ab­solutely and utterly refused to admit I was even a senior. 
"I'm a second-year junior." 
My friends soon broke me of that. Plus, claiming seniordom gave me a good reason to go out instead of studying (sorry you had to read that, Mom!). 
But I still refuse to admit with that one word that I will soon be leaving. 
No one in my dorm section is allowed to say anything pertaining to next year, jobs, visiting or even the month of May. 
Notre Dame is strong tradition in my family. I remember going to football games when I was little and my Dad would get so excited when the golden dome came into sight from the tollway. 
Back then I never really understood what the big deal was. For me, the sight of the dome meant the car ride was almost over, a football game was imminent, and I could finally go to the bathroom. 
I went home a few weekends ago, and when I returned it struck me that I would not behold the dome from the tollway many more times-spring break and Easter only. 
I don't want to grow up and be in the real world. The security of college life is much more appealing. 
Classes for two or three hours a day instead of an eight-hour-a-day job (at least eight hours). You never have to worry about getting fired. You have not only a spring break but a fall break. You have great tailgating for even greater football games. 
Unless I decide to intentionally fail all my classes, though, I have only about nine weeks left. 
It's hard to believe I will have to say goodbye to friends I've been with for four years. There are people that I've met just in the last year-just in the last semester-who I will never get a chance to know better. 
So I intend to have a raging nine weeks. And, for those of you who have to put up with me, please try to understand why this is killing me, don't mention that g-word, and I'll be okay. 
The views contained in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today'•  Staff:  
News  Production  Graphics  
Paul Pearson  Michelle Wood  Michael F. Muldoon  
Ann Marie Hartman  Jacquie Calhoun  Jake Frost  
Rene Ferran  
Systems  Photography  
Accent  Debra Heerensperge'  Todd Flint  
Michael Whitman  Fritz Valsaint  
Shonda Wilson  Business  
Meredith McCullough  Viewpoint  L. PeterYob  
"The Daver" Certo  Denisse M-Landais  
Sports  
Rene Ferran Mark McGrath  Scoreboard Rene Ferran  Circulation Bill O'Rourke  
Matt Novak  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE NATIONAL Jet with 25 aboard crashes 
•COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -A United jetliner with 25 people on board crashed in flames as it ap­proached the Colorado Springs airport Sunday morning, and there were apparently no survivors, authorities said. "We can't even find a chair," said El Paso County Sheriff Bernie Berry. "There's not a great deal of that airplane left." United Flight 585 en route from Denver crashed at 
9:55 a.m. four to five miles south of the airport, the Fed­eral Aviation Administration in Washington said. There were 20 passengers on board and a crew of five. The FAA and the airline both said all aboard apparently were killed. The plane narrowly missed houses and apartment buildings; at least one person on the ground was injured. 
Twelve arrested in campus riot over keg 
•HARTFORD, Conn.-About 1,000 students at the University of Hartford rioted early Sunday when police tried to break up an unauthorized keg party, authorities said. Students pelted police with rocks and beer bottles after spilling out of an on-campus apartment to a nearby common. Seven police officers and nine students suffered cuts and bruises. Twelve students were arrested on charges of first-degree riot, which is a felony, breach of peace and interfering with police. Witnesses said officers clubbed bystanders who posed no threat. "They were 
OF INTEREST 
•A 
van training seminar will be offered for all those who have not previously attended one and are planning to request use of the Center for Social Concerns' vans. The course will be offered today and Thursday at 5 p.m. at the CSC. This seminar is mandatory for all CSC van drivers. 

•An 
Interfaith service for peace and reconciliation will be held tonight at 7 p.m. at Temple Beth-El, located on 305 W. Madison St., South Bend. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 1, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES  NYSE INDEX  
221.51 Million  202.39  •  1.69  
S&P COMPOSITE 370.47  t-3.40  

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,909.90 t-27.72 PRECIOUS METALS GOLD .f $0.50 to $ 367.00oz. SILVER t-4.2¢ to$ 3.773/oz. 
City Athens Atlanta Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft. Worth Denver Detroit Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London los Angeles Madrid Miami Beach Moscow New Orleans New York Paris Philadelphia Portland. Ore. Rome St. louis San Francisco South Bend Tokyo Washington. D.C. 

H L 59 45 60 45 60 41 
30 2t 62 36 63 32 
25 24 78 58 6t 47 32 30 
52 43 73 50 59 37 82 74 
30 10 
59 49 65 51 50 37 73 48 57 45 61 43 36 32 61 53 
35 27 
52 41 
65 51 
met by a very large, angry crowd out there," said Hartford police Sgt. Cary Gilbert. "It was definitely a riot." 

WORLD 
Pope asks for hope in Middle East 

•VATICAN CITY-Pope John Paul II on Sunday prayed for strength for Kuwaitis, peace for Iraq and a "better future" for the Middle East. The Pope gave thanks for the cease-fire in the Gulf War and urged solidarity for the people of Kuwait, which "after the very grave trial it endured, has found its independence again." "May the Lord grant (Kuwait) strength and hope in the work of re­construction," the Pope prayed, appearing from the window of his private study to a crowd of about 10,000 people in St. Peter's Square. 

"Let us also feel close to the population of Iraq and to its suffering -we ask God that, along with a final peace, it may be granted the possibility of loyal collaboration with its neighbors and with the other members of the international community," John Paul said. The Pope also recalled other Persian Gulf coun­tries, saying "may God mercifully grant them the grace of hope in a better future." 
•Fast 
members who need photo ID cards should meet in the Identification Room at the Security Building on Tuesday at 9 a.m. · 

•campus 
bands and DJs interested in being a part of the Campus Entertainment Registry in Student Activities should sign up at 315 LaFortune. This list will be distributed to student organizations looking for additions to their program. This service is FREE and is open only to those groups made up of members of the ND/SMC community. Questions? Call 239-7308 for more informa­tion. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1789: The Constitution of the United States went into effect as the first Federal Congress met in New York. 

• 
In 1837: The Illinois state legislature granted a city charter to Chicago. 

• 
In 1917: Republican Jeannette Rankin of Montana took her seat as a member of Congress, the first woman to be elected to the House of Representatives. 

• 
In 1933: In his inaugural address, President Franklin D. Roosevelt pledged effective leadership to pull the country out of the Great Depression, saying, "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself." 

• 
In 1952: Actor Ronald Reagan and actress Nancy Davis were married in San Fernando Valley, Calif. 




L__________________________________________________________________________ --­
Monday, March 4, 1991 The ObseNer page 3 
Law Review symposium studies minority rights 
By MEG SHUFF News Writer 
Scholars from around the world gathered this weekend for the 1991 Law Review Symposium, "The Rights of Ethnic Minorities," to present an examination of the rights of ethnic minorities in the interna­tional legal system. 
The two-day symposium, eo­sponsored by the Center for Civil and Human Bights and the Notre Dame Law Heview, in­corporated sdf-determination as a common theme in a num­ber of the lectures. 
llnnry Steiner, Professor of l.aw at Harvard University l.aw School, and Sharon O'Brien, an Associate Professor and l>in~etor of the Undergraduate Government program at Notre Dame, both emphasized that theme in their respective lec­tures. 
"Self-determination is the right to take part in the gov­ernment. .. and the right to practice culture in community with others," said Steiner. 
O'Brien, who lectured primarily on the political relationship of the United States with American Indians, also emphasized the importance of self-de­termination. 
"Currently, we are in a period of self-determination ... it is the time to improve the status of tribes and protect their rights," she said. 
As O'Brien emphasized the rights of American Indians as a group, Steiner discussed the 
CLUB COLUMN 
MARCH 4, 1991 

The Flying Club will meet at 6:15pm in room 188 Niewland Science. For more 
information call Jennifer Martin at 283-2722. Amnesty International Group #43 will be meeting tonight from 7-8 pm in the CSC. The topic will be the death penalty; all are welcome. 
The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development Marketing and Publicity Committee will be meeting on Wednesday, March 6, at 6:30pm in the Pink Lounge of Howard Hall. Call Amy at 283-2653 if there are any questions. 
The Democratic Socialists of America-ND/SMC will be having a table in the library concourse on Wednesday, March 6. Dinah Leventhal, the National DSA Youth Section Co-ordinator will be there to help answer any questions. Dinah will also speak at a meeting at 8:30pm that evening. 
The Notre Dame Pom Pom Squad will be holding an informational meeting on Wednesday. March 20, at 9:30pm in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. The meeting will be to discuss the date and times for the 1991-92 tryouts. 
The ND/SMC College Republicans will hold a meeting Tuesday, MArch 5, at 
8:00pm in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. Election of officers will be held. Women for the Environment are meeting on Wednesday, March 6, at 7:30 pm in Holy Cross Parlor at SMC. Please bring $1 semester dues. Any questions call Teresa Lynch 284-5403 or Denise McDonald 284-4363. 
Saint Mary's Earth Day Committee are meeting on Monday, March 4, at 4 pm in 
Holy Cross Room 11. Any questions call Teresa Lynch at 284-5403. All clubs that have not done so need to pick up their registration and financial packets in their mailboxes outside of the Club Room, 207 LaFortune. The CLub Room will also have extended office hours this week in order to help with the preparation of these packets. Any questions, stop by or call 283-2086. We are here to help you. 
Club Column entries are to be turned in by 5 pm every Thursday at the Club Room, 207 LaFortune lor publication the followmg Monday. 
rights of minority groups in general. 
Steiner focused on the ambi­guity between individual and group rights he discussed vari­ous dilemmas of international regulation in regard to the de­mands of ethnic minorities for autonomy. 
"There are remarkably few clear statements about group rights; although the stress is on the individual...there should be a recognition of the vital role played by groups," he said. 
Presently, O'Brien said, the United States maintains a polit­ical relationship with about 200 federally recognized groups, but the problem is that there are still over 200 Indian tribal groups that are not recognized 
and therefore have not been granted political rights or treated equally. 
Groups are necessities in a society that praises human rights,.; furthermore, no one chooses to be born how they are, Steiner said. 
It is obvious, Steiner said, that individuals frequently form in groups. Therefore, he added, group rights include notions which can be corporately asserted by the group in the group's name. 
But, Steiner said, this pre­sents a problem because often people are part of a group and they do not want that to bear on how they are treated as in­dividuals. 
O'Brien supported this no­
tion, saying "the importance of groups as the political relation­ship extends between tribes and the federal government, not between the government and individual Indians." 
Hence, O'Brien said, increas­ing self-determination is the only solution to aid the Indians. However, she said, "The gov­ernment is providing more self­determination to tribes, but they are doing so with such a heavy hand that it's causing tribes to integrate themselves into dominant society to exer­cise this right." 
Being integrated into the dominant society, Steiner said, is not what the Indians want as they hope to preserve their group identity. 

Father Oliver Williams visits South Africa 
ing is the role and future of economic sanctions in light of the changing situation in South Africa. 
A whoJly independent body, the council offers guidance, as­sistance and, when appropri­ate, criticism to companies with South African operations as they work toward the removal of the laws sustaining apartheid and toward black so­cial and economic development. 
Other members of the council are Melvin Miller, partner in the law firm of Fitch, Miller and Tourse and a trustee of Boston University; Bishop Hichard Laymon Fisher, presiding bishop of the Ninth Episcopal District of the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church; and Ned Munger, a professor at the California Institute of Technology and president of the Cape of Good Hope Foundation. 

Special to The Observer 
Father Oliver Williams, asso­ciate provost and associate professor of management at the University of Notre Dame, is visiting the Hepublic of South Africa March 1-12 as a member of the National Advisory council to U.S. firms with operations in that country. 
While in South Africa the council's members will meet with government and church officials as well as the leader­ship of the African national Congress, Inkatha, and the black labor movement. The key issue the council is investigat­




in the NcX"I;.t~tion'·computer. "c\'(0 managed ro ~e1.c the me>< poss1hle computer mw the least flO"ihlc •pace \Ve\e :~lo;o -.<1uce1cd the most p<JSSihlc nnnpuu:r into the least po5slhle prll'C. 
One lm• pm·e llll'lude' nut unh the kc•·board ;md monuor. hut a full e1ght mcg~h•·te' of mcmor\', a huih-in 2.:-\S.nn.:J.!~'hvtl' Hn11Jl~ di!\k dri\'C ~lntl hhcrnet.Thc r"e:\'istation is also ~<jUijlJlcd "1th a IOS-me~:al>\'te hard d"k.onto •lh11'h "e h;r•·c taken rhe Iibert• uf mstalhng J rather formida­ble package uf ~oft\\ arc. inl'ludmg \\'rttel\o".' Jf"tlmll"'"".' NcXTmad'" Jnd DlgitJI Wcb"cr.'" So all \'OU ha•·c 10 do is plug •t•n and •ou'rc rca1h to go to "ork.You c\'cn ~t ~ frel' trial su~ription to Nc>-'TWORLO'"mag­azinc.to keep vou up to date. 
-\nd lo anakc our c.:a,..c C\Cil more mmpcllin):.\\e·ll~ml a free I'OJl\ of the cxtraurdinal\' ~preadshcct pm­gram. Lotus lmpru• Ia :'-NI."t •·alue). to e\ei\Oilc who purdrascs "'"'reg;,. tc:rs a Nc>..~rstation or NcX'it·uhc c.·omJ'UI(Cr, ur an (~J IIPI!r:u.k !'H•o.•nl before March 31, 1991.• 
\\'c couldn't C\'Cil gu<:ss where 
•nu could make" mm1lamhle pur­
l'ha\c. But we c;~n tell vou c··­
11!
actly where to make thi~ one.( :h~ek rhe sp;~cc hclowro lind the location of mur campus rescUer. 
RIGHT NOW,YOU CAN 

GET TWO BRUKTHROUGHS 
FOR THE PRICE OF ONE. 

Omcc o1 Urw-..cnnr Compuliaa C0111p1nina Ccnc:riMMh Bui..nl 
Hours: Mon.• Fri., 9:00-.5:00 
The Observer 
page 4 

Veterans Affairs chief: Persian Gulf war cannot be compared with Vietnam War 
By SARAH VOIGT News Writer 
Edward Derwinski, Secretary of Veterans Affairs, said in a lecture Friday that there is no comparison between the im­pending return of 150,000 ser­vice people from the Persian Gulf war and the return of American troops from the Vietnam War. 
Derwinski, the first to hold the newly created cabinet posi­tion of Veterans Affaits, pre­dicted that the Gulf service people should have no great readjustment problems. 
Unlike the drafted status of most soldiers in the Vietnam War, Derwinski said that the American forces in this most recent war are all careerists, guardsmen and reservists. 
"There should be no impact on civilian society as a whole because most of the servicemen are careerists who will simply return to their home bases. Also, the jobs of guardsmen and reservists are protected by law." said Derwinski. 
Derwinski contrasted the the hostile public response that many Vietnam war veterans faced to the parades and festiv­ities that he predicted the American public will stage to welcome home the reservists and guardsmen who served in the Persian Gulf war. 

The Secretary of Veterans Affairs also claimed that the 150,000 returning American service people will be "easily absorbable" back into society. "Most are healthy and safe and will return to their previous jobs," he said. 
With an average age of 27, those serving in the Persian Gulf are older than American veterans from any other war. 
Since only 200 American sol­diers were injured in the con­flict with about 43 missing in action, Derwinski said that he was grateful that his depart­ment would not have more im­portance. 
However, Derwinski said, for the last seven months the Department of Veterans Affairs has been preparing for the worst. "Seven months of getting ready for what tur~ed out not to be necessary still equipped us to do our job better," he said. 
Derwinski said that his de­partment has improved and ex­panded in intangible ways since last August. "We've perfected procedures for processing claims and have updated doc­tors and nurses with special training for victims of chemical and biological warfare," he stated. 
Before accepting the position of head of this department, Derwinski represented the 4th district of Illinois as a 12-term member of the U.S. House of Representatives. He also served for many years as senior Republican member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. 
Derwinski's lecture was sponsored by the College of Business Administration. 

Are You Serious About Your Christian Faith? 
Then, please join us for small group Bible studies and prayer. For more information call: 
277-7229 
sponsored by Campus Crusade for Christ 


DISMAS HOUSE: 
A community of support, reconciliation and adjustment, dismas house offers a unique opportunity for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students to share in a life-training experience with former prisoners. Together an environment of trust, friendship and hope can be ouilt to provide the confidence and courage necessary for each to enter society as a valuable and integral member. 
Are you interested in living in the Dismos community next semester? 
Applications available at the Center for Social 
Concerns. See: 

Kathy Royer-239-7862 
Application deadline: 

Friday, March 8, 1991 

-------------------------------------------------. 
Monday, March 4, 1991 


Attack 
continued from page 1 
said, five males of white and Hispanic origin, attacked the remaining four NO students with baseball bats. 
The suspects were described to be in their mid to late teens. They had two baseball bats in their possession, which they used to hit the NO students, Hurley said. The Saint Mary's students were not assaulted. 
According to Hurley, the inci­dent was broken up when the owner of a tavern across the street, was leaving his business. He saw the commotion, got into his vehicle, turned on his bright lights, and drove toward the incident. It 

was at this time that the 
suspects fled, according to 
Hurley. 

One of the girls remained with the victim at the phone booth, while the others left to call the police. The entire inci­dent lasted approximately 10 minutes. 
Four of the students were re­leased early Saturday morning from South Bend Memorial Hospital with multiple lacera­tions and contusions to the head, face and back. One of the victims was released from Memorial Hospital to the ND Infirmary. He suffered from serious contusions of the head and a possible concussion, Hurley said. 
The South Bend police will turn over the case to their in­vestigators today, Hurley said. 
God gives each personone lifetime. What are you doingwith yours? 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 


Student Union Board Presents: 
A Lecture 

by 









Professor Walter Williams 
John M. Olin Foundation Distinguished Professor of Economics 
•Author 
of The State Against Blacks, America: A Minority Viewpoint, All It Takes js Guts, and South Africa's War Agajnst Capitalism 

• 
Has appeared in The New Republic, National Review, Policy Review, American Economic Review, and on William F. Buckley's Firing Line, ABC's Nightline, and CBS' Face the Nation 



"Race and Sex Discrimination in the Economy" 
Tuesday, March 5, 1991 7:30pm Washington Hall 
~--------------------------------------­


The CtEooter/Joe Falllle

Midterm smiles 
In spite of another week of midterms at both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, a student smiles knowing Spring Break is near. 

The Observer page 5 




Baum lectures on problems faced by women, minorities in field of engineering 
By MARK CAWLEY News Writer 
Engineers are "problem solvers that work on things that make society better," ac­cording to Eleanor Baum, a guest speaker from the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and the Arts. She went on to say that there are, however, distinct problems for women and minorities who plan to enter the field of engineering. 
Baum's lecture, titled "Diversity in the Work Force: The Challenge of Engineering," concerned the difficulties facing women and minority engineers in the classroom and in the work force. 
Baum, the only female dean of an engineering program in the country, began on a note of optimism as she described how society has changed since she began her studies of engineering. 
"It used to be that a woman went to school to become educated enough for some educated man to marry you," she said. Baum called the situation for women engineers at that time as "very limited." 

Although societal perceptions 
of women and minority engi­
neers have changed, it is still 
difficult for them to enter and 
succeed in the field of engineer­
ing. Baum believes that the root 
of this problem lies in the 
method of recruiting engineer­
ing students. Guidance materi­
als developed by engineering 
schools are usually "boring and 
badly done," she said. 

High schools are also ham­
pering the recruitment of women and minority engineers, Baum said. "Surveys show that some high school guidance counselors actually discourage · women from entering the field 
of engineering." 

Urban high schools hinder 
prospective minority engineers 
because these schools "teach 
little math and physics 
courses," she said. 

Baum complained that the 
media presents a negative im­
age of the engineering profes­
sion to women and minorities. 
"We have a nerd image. Scien­
tists are always little, nerdy 
people who are usually male," 
said Baum. 

As students progress to un­
dergraduate engineering pro­
grams, Baum noted, "the 
schools that are most success­
ful in recruiting and keeping 
women are those that do things differently." 
"Engineering schools must work at creating a supportive environment. The schools with the best retention rates are those where students have a one to one type relationship with the faculty," said Baum. 
Baum also discussed the problems which women and minorities face in the work force. Baum thinks that prob­lems such as isolation and self­consciousness must be cor­rected by American industry. She encouraged industry to pair its young female and minority employees with more experienced engineers. 
"Industry should think more carefully of mentoring new women and minority engi­neers," she said. 
Industry should also make special allowances for female engineers who wish to have children because, "the mommy trap does affect those who take time off to rear children," Baum said. 
Baum ended her lecture by saying, "l think things are changing and getting better. Industry really wants us. Some firms are offering $1,000 more to woman [than to men] for an initial job." 
Prospects for minority engi­neers are also improving, ac­cording to Baum. Citing the falling number of engineers in the United States, Baum said "the only way around this problem is to increase the number of minority engineers." 
Baum's lecture was spon­sored by the College of Engi­neering, the Freshman Year of Studies and the Year of Women. 

Maple ne BarberShop 2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 
********* 


GSU ELECTIONS 1991 Graduate Students Vote for your 1991-92 Leaders Make a difference! ! Vote at these Voting Stations: LIBRARY CONCOURSE illO'SHACi illCUSH lNG Biological Sciences Economics Aero & Mechanical Eng Mathematics English Architecture Chemistry & Biochemistry Art Chemical Engineering Physics Music/Music & Liturgy Materials Science Eng Medieval Institute German and Russian Electrical Engineering Psychology Government Peace Institute MSA Program History & Pilosophy-of Sc Civil Engineering History Philosophy Romance Languages & Lits Sociology Theology American Studies Classical & Oriental Languages Votin is Tuesda March 5 1991, 10:00 am to 2:00 pm  '•Yi*i -ii·iiliiiiiiiiiiiii~~Chkoago HairCuttingeo;J \T • M • • IT M • • H M • • H M • • • • H PE LE INCLUDES PRECISION CUT 8 SHAMPOO -INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA NEXT TO VENTUREREDKEN GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA PROFESSIONAL 277-794S HOURS: Daily 9-8 PRODUCTS Sat 9-6 Sun. 11-5 ·Hair longer than shoulder lenglh $10 _,al ~>Copyright ol Chicago Hair Cufting Co. 1991  




GSU ELECTIONS 

page 6 Monday, March 4, 1991 
Mills/Siawner stress active role in decision-making 
By KURT MILLS and KAREN SLAWNER 
Candidates for GSU Office 

graduate students be heard and participate in the decision­making process. 
Thus, we are running for the positions of Graduate Student volvement and support at this level, we will be unable to ac­complish much on behalf of graduate students. 
The University has made a 

graduate students can make speed progress toward their degrees, summer funding, ei­ther in the form of fellowships or assistantships, is vital. 
advanced graduate students more responsibility at the ap­propriate time. 
This would benefit not only graduate students, but under­

Brooks/Meyer: faculty should be teachers first 
As graduate students, we are in a somewhat precarious situ­ation within the University. On the one hand, we are students, with all the attending trials and tribulations. On the other hand, we are in training to be profes­sionals, and, indeed, are thrust into the role of professional in in our teaching and other activ­ities. 
Because of the tension be­tween these two roles, and be­cause the University makes de­cisions everyday which will af­fect the rest of our lives, we feel it is vitally important that 
By MICHAEL BROOKS and CHRISTIAN MEYER 
Candidates for GSU Office 
Money. 
Nothing is more popular than to advocate raising the stipends for graduate students. After all, who opposes getting more money? 
But the issue is much more complicated than that. In the first place, finances are not a major concern of graduate stu­dents in several of our depart­ments. Specifically, students in departments that are swim­ming in government grants are not feeling the pinch that those of us in less fortunate depart­ments are feeling; as a result, these highly-favored graduates are not worried much about fi. nances. 
Second, each department is allotted a certain amount of money for students and each, as we understand it, is free to use that money as it thinks fit. Thus, policies vary from de­partment to department; each must decide, based on its goals, whether it will offer fewer but more lucrative stipends. That seems, in the main, a matter for each department's students to fight out with their depart­mental chairman. 
However, we do hope to be able to raise the general allot­ment to the departments, on the understanding that once the money is received the problem is ours only indirectly. 
Work up to 6 months •n Bntam, Ireland. France. Germany, Jama•ca. New Zealand, and Costa R1ca Counc•l's Work Abroad Pro­gram.the only one at 1\S kmd in the U.S cuts through all the red tape' 
Call lor FREE brochures on work programs, discount a" lares. language courses. and 
more. 
Council on lnt'l Educat1onal Exchange 
(U.S Sponsor of the lnt'l Student /D Card} 


Union (GSU) President and Vice President to ensure that gradu­ate student concerns are ad­dressed by the University. 
While we will, of course, be open to the comments and con­cerns of all graduate students we have several specific items which we would like to address during our tenure in office. 
First and foremost, we will work to involve more graduate students in the decision-making process. This includes greater participation by departmental representatives in the graduate student council. Without in-
The social problem. 

The position of graduate stu­dents is ambiguous. We don't really fit in with the rest of the student body, but often we aren't sure we want to anyway. Under the circumstances, knit· ting together the graduate stu­dents is a desideratum. But how to do this? 
"More and better parties," is the general drift of feeling. But before we arrange for more parties, we should ensure how that people are going to the ones we already hold. 
Complaints can always be made about the lack of suffi· cient advertising, but at the base of the problem is that graduate students are simply not going in droves to the par­ties that GSU throws, for what­ever reason. GSU provides op­portunities for graduate stu­dents to meet; it is up to the students to take advantage of the opportunities. 
Similarly, what makes a "good" party? "Good beer and 



LAFA VETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
4&5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE 
AMENITIES INCLUDE: 
-WASHER &DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATIOS 
·oNLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT! 


CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 232-8256 
public commitment to increase the stature of the graduate school and the conditions of graduate students. Thus, the next three items address this issue. The administration has stated that it will institute a minimum level for all stipends. We will work to ensure that this level is adequate to meet the needs of graduate students. 
Another issue which many graduate students are con­cerned about is summer fund­ing. We feel that in order to be a competitive graduate institu­tion as well as to ensure that 
good music" are the most common responses. But varying tastes in beer and music make no consensus. To take just a small sample: Michael abhors all beer, while Chris adores Labatt's (we think that we can work together despite this philosophical difference). For the parties to be good, students have to attend them. If they don't, they have no grounds for complaining. 
Teaching. 
This year GSU seems to have done a decent job at stressing the importance of teaching for graduate students. But are the various departments providing the opportunity for graduate students to practice-by actu­ally teaching classes? 
GSU can make recommenda­tions about policies, and we plan to, but in the end the deci­sions about how to employ graduate students are left to the departments. Again, the concerned students willing to air their concerns will be able 
Any competitive graduate school should also provide ex­tensive support for professional development. This includes, first, training for teaching. 
Recently, there have been some recommendations regard­ing this issue. While there were problems with the recent report on TA (teaching assistant) training, we saw some very positive aspects, including the institutionalization of training for all TAs, either in the form of departmental programs or a university teaching center, as well as a discussion of giving 
to effect much more than GSU can by its recommendations. 
Faculty. 
Finally, and most importantly. often we graduate students consider the graduate program in a vacuum, as if our aims are separate from those of The University as a whole. We think this is a mistake. 

~,-------------------------------------­
r ~ 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Clerk 
For more information contact Julie at 239-6900 or 283-1291 
' 


graduates as well who are taught by graduate students. 
Support for professional de­velopment would also include more university support for conference attendance and publication. 
Three other issues specifically involve graduate students. First, the University is currently in the process of revising duLac, and a GSU committee, of which Kurt is a co-chair, has been preparing recommenda­tions for the administration. At 
see MILLS I page 8 
As we understand the matter, the University of Notre Dame still considers itself a Catholic institution, and presumably that means something. But now Notre Dame is at a crossroads; it wishes to be one of the elite research universities in 
see BROOKS I page 8 





----------------~ 
OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Monday, March 4, 1991 page 7 
Weekend Gulf Roundup 
Kurdish leaders see State Department snub 
•WASHINGTON -Kurdish leaders complained Friday that 
Stat~ Department officials refusnd to see them to discuss their role in a postwar Iraq. "The Kurds will play an important role in Iraq," said I Ioshyar Zebari, a spokesman for the Iraqi Kurdistan Front, a eoalition of Kurdish opposition groups. Zebari and others Kurds said at a news eonference that they had sought unsuccessfully to arrange a meeting with State Department officials to discuss postwar Iraq. Peter Galbraith, an employee of the Senate Foreign Helations Committee, said department officials said they were too busy to arrange a meeting. Galbraith said the Kurds had been wekomed on Capitol llill, where Sen. Claiborne Pell, D-R.I., the committee chairman, hosted an ali-day conference on Kurdish human rights. A State Department official, speaking on condition he not be identified, confirmed that officials would not see the Kurds to discuss their political aspirations. 
Pizza party extraordinaire in Mississippi 
•JACKSON, Miss. -The governor ordered 2,000 pizzas and 600 gallons of soda for a victory party Saturday for the families of thousands of Mississippi National Guardsmen and reservists serving in Operation Desert Storm. "When we started planning this, it was going to be a support get-together. But I'm glad it's turned into a vietory party," Gov. Ray Mabus told a street full of people who broke out into applause. Arrangements were made for the pizzas and soda to be served during two shifts. A street beside the Governor's Mansion was cordoned off and filled with tables dotted with U.S. flags. About 5,800 families and friends of the more than 3,000 Mississippi servicemen deployed since Oct. 28 W!lre greeted at the mansion's entrance by the governor, his wife Julie and their 7-month-old baby Elisabeth, and then escorted on 
a tour. 
Street named Schwarzkopf runs into hitch 
•JERUSALEM -The deputy m~yor wants to name a street for 
U.S. Gen. U. Norman Schwarzkopf, but the U.S. commander fails to qualify in just one way. After Emanuel Zisman made the proposal on Sunday, it was recalled that municipal policy says a person must be dead for three years before such an honor can be awarded. "Of course there could be exceptions," said Mayor Teddy Kollek's spokeswoman, Bonnie Boxer. Zisman raised the idea as a way to thank the United States and President Bush for defeating Iraq-orw of Israel's chief Arab foes-in the Gulf War. 
L.___. ------------------------' 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
MOOSE-
Love, John, Rob, Joe, Mike,and Your Harem 
INVENTORY CLEARANCE SALE 
DOOLEY ROOM LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
MARCH 4-8 

10:00 A.M. -4:00 P.M. 
•Portfolio 
Bags •Coffee Mugs 

•Short 
Sleeve Polo Shirts •Cotton Sweaters 

•Cotton 
& Velour Blankets •Sweatshirts 

•Official 
Miami T-Shirts •NO Rub-ons 


You won't find better prices anywhere! Great Gifts for Spring Break and Easter!! 
WASHINGTON (AP) Secretary of State James Baker said Sunday that vanquishing Iraq's army has created new opportunities for peace in the Middle East, but the United States "cannot impose a solu­tion" on Israel or the Arab states. 
Baker and other top adminis­tration officials signalled anew that the coalition will go easier on seeking reparations from Iraq if Saddam Hussein is re­moved from power. 
Baker said Saddam remains in control in Baghdad "as far as we know," despite unrest in Basra and other Iraqi cities. 
President Bush, who spent the weekend at the presidential retreat at Camp David, Md., has said repeatedly that while Sad dam's ouster was not a war aim, no tears would be shed if he were toppled from power. 
Top White House officials, making the rounds of network television talk shows, held out an olive branch to Jordan's King Hussein, who sided with Saddam. 
And National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft said the Bush administration may have to rethink plans for a 25 percent cut in the defense budget over live years. 
Scowcroft, on ABC-TV, said he did not think the United States could respond to another crisis in two years the way it did to the Gulf crisis if those cutbacks take place. 
"We ought to take a new look" at defense spending, he 
said.  
Baker,  who  leaves  
Wednesday  on  a  postwar  
diplomatic  mission  to  the  

Middle East and the Soviet 
TOMORROW 7:30 P.M.-NOTRE DAME J.A.C.C. 
PRICES '12.50 & s9.50 
e ASK ABOUT SPECIAL COURTSIDE SEATS• $2.00 DISCOUNT ND/SMC STUDENTS/FACUL TV/STAFF 
ON SALE JACC BOX OFFICE (9 AM -5 PM) 

Union, said, "in the aftermath of this remarkable victory, there may be indeed some opportunities" to help solve the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
But "the United States cannot impose a solution," Baker said on NBC-TV. 

UNITED NATION APPROVES "SURRENDER RESOLUTION" 
The Security Council overwhelmingly passed aresolution dictating allied demands that Iraq must meet before a formal cease-fire is adopted in the Gulf War. 
11 of the 15 council members voted for it. Cuba opposed it; India, China and Yemen abstained. 
Main points of the United Nation resolution: 
• 
Return all prisoners of war, abducted Kuwaitis, and plundered property 

• 
Rescind annexation of Kuwait 

• 
Cease "hostile or provocative actions 

• 
Accept liability for war damages in Kuwait and else­where; help in rebuilding of Kuwait 

• 
Disclose the location of mine fields and booby traps 

• 
Stat€s the U.S. and its allies intend to leave southern Iraq "as soon as possible" when Kuwait is stable and international peace and security is restored 

• 
Reaffirms all12 council resolutions passed against Iraq following its invasion of Kuwait 

• 
Gives allies the right to resume military action against Iraq if it fails to comply with the demands 


The five permanent members of the council are the United Slates. Soviet Union, Britain, France. and China. The 10 non-permanent members are Austria, Belgium. Cuba, Ecuador, India, Ivory Coast, Romania, Yemen, Zaire and Zimbabwe. 
AP 

------~--------­
The Observer 

page 8 Monday, March 4, 1991 
Mills 
continued from page 6 
the base of these recommenda­tions is the fact that graduate students have responsibility for the conduct of their lives and should be so treated by the University. 
This revision process, will continue, and we will work to ensure that graduate students are represented in the process. 
Another issue which is of great importance especially to married graduate students is the issue of day-care. We real­ize that this is a complicated is­sue, but we hope that some sort of day-care system can be cre­atively worked out, whether university sponsored or by a cooperative of students, and possibly faculty. 
Finally, the issue of social space for graduate students is unclear. The GSU has facili­tated a very successful series of gatherings at Senior/Alumni Club this past year and has sponsored a number of parties for graduate students, and will continue to do so. 
However, the issue of a per­manent social space for gradu­ate students, and relatedly, the disposition of Wilson Commons, has not been dealt with in any systematic manner. 
We will work to rectify this lack of graduate student social space. 
We find two other issues which affect the University as a whole. The first, while it may seem trivial, is nonetheless a serious problem. This is the fact that it is next to impossible for students to gain access to the bookstore during the foot­ball season. We would like to see some sort of system where at least one check-out lane is reserved for books and aca­demic supplies during these pe­riods. 
Finally, there has been a felt need on the part of many women at the University for a center where women can go for medical and other advice, and find a non-threatening atmo­sphere for the discussion of their concerns. This was rec­ommended to the Board of Trustees in a report by the Women's Resource Council of the GSU and has not been taken up by the University yet. 
Most major colleges and uni­versities have some sort of women's center, and we would like to further explore the pos­sibility of establishing one on campus. 
We feel we both have the ex­perience necessary to bring graduate student concerns to the administration and the University as a whole. Kurt has been a departmental represen­tative to the GSC (Graduate Student Council), a representa­tive to the Faculty Senate, a member of the GSU social committee, and, as mentioned above, is co-chairing the Student Code Reform Committee of the GSU. 
In addition, he is very active within his department. 
Karen is currently the Secretary of the GSU, and is, too, very involved in profes­sional activities within her de­partment. 
Thus, we hope that our demonstrated commitment to service on the behalf of gradu­ate students, our experience, and our ideas for developing the graduate school will con­vince you that we are the best candidates for President and Vice President of the Graduate Student Union. 
Brooks 
continued from page 6 
America, and there are many ways to accomplish this. 
The most prestigious secular institutions are increasingly emphasizing research at the expense of teaching, because at the end of the research is books, and books create schol­ars' reputations, and scholars' reputations create prestigious departments, and these en­hance a university's reputation, and this attracts the brightest students, etc. 
This mentality is known as "publish or perish," and it is a very real force, even here at Notre Dame. Many people love to disparage it as ignoble, but they nonetheless accept it as inevitable. 
Well, it is not inevitable. It is a course that is deliberately chosen, by those who think that it is the only, or perhaps the easiest, road to respectability. But is it true that this is the only reasonable path to our goal, and do the changes that have been introduced at Notre Dame really signify progress? 
A few results are already ob­vious: immense pressure is put on our faculty members, espe­cially our junior faculty, to publish. Teaching loads have 
* 
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship Re-scheduled Large Group Meeting DR. THOMAS V. MORRIS 
(Assoc. Prof. of Philosophy, Univ. of Notre Dame) On 'PASCAL on love and life of the Body' 6:30pm Tuesday, Mar. 5 Keenan-Stanford Chapel All are Welcome 
been reduced to encourage "scholarship." Fewer classes are being offered, and the class size is climbing at all levels, but most appallingly at the under­graduate level. Through these and other influences, the nature of Notre Dame education is subtly changing, we think, for the worse. 
It is question time for Notre Dame. Do we simply want to be like the hundreds of secular in­stitutions striving to enter the elite circle of prestigious uni­versities, or are we distinctively Christian, distinctively Catholic university that is striving to en­ter the circle? Do we see our­selves as representing some­thing different, something more than our competitors? 
And if we do in fact see our­selves as a Catholic school, how is that unique character to show through? In no small part, we think by atmosphere established by the faculty. 
With the members already here, we admittedly have only the power of exhortation. But 
Happy 21st 
Birthday 
Jude Anthony (JAB) 
As always, our love and God's Blassings. 
Mom, Dad, "Jovi," Brenda, Steve and Kids 
positions are continually open­ing up. When we interview a candidate for a position, we should concern ourselves not only with his or her teaching abilities and scholarship, but also the answer to this ques­tion: how can this candidate advance the mission of Notre Dame? 
The fact that a candidate has a well-received book or two is neither an indication that he or she can teach, nor that he or she will dovetail with Notre Dame's Christian character. 
Now, we are not so simple as to think that a candidate's merely checking off the little box beside "Roman Catholic" ensures his or her compatibil­ity. However, it seems to us that a fundamental question that The University as a whole needs to ask is: what do we see as our Catholic character? In its attempt to break into the inner circle now inhabited by secular universities, is it jeop­ardizing its distinctive charac­ter, perhaps without even real­izing the risk its running? 

Come Watch Irish Hoops on 5 TVs 
•Nightly Specials 
• Dart Tournaments 
Fri +Sat 5-7 p.m. Show Student I D And Receive A Free Appetizer 
All you can eat 2 -topping pizza for only $6 a person 
Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 4:30-2/Fri. 4:30-3/ Sat. 12-3/ Sun. 12-12 
1602 Ironwood Dr., South Bend 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI r------This Week Only------.....,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT: 
I Reg. sa MasterCuts I 
~------------~-~i'L~~~s-~ 
!$5OFF ANYr!~~ ! 
~------------------~ 
No Double Discounts 
With Student I.D. 
We Trim Prices, Not Quality Walk-Ins Welcome 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 277-3770 

~-------~~. 
Business 
Monday, March 4, 1991 page 9 
Auto-makers plan for trimmed down labor force 
DETROIT (AP) -The Big Three automakers, locked into hourly-employee labor ex­penses, are turning their cost­cutting plans to salaried em­ployees. 
Ford Motor Co. Chairman Harold Poling said Thursday tho company wanted to pare $3 billion from its annual costs, about $96.1 billion last year. 
lie said the company would begin an early retirement pro­gram, delay bonuses and merit incroases for managers and suspend matching contribu­tions to salaried workers' sav­ings and stock plans. 
But he said normal attrition, which runs about 5 percent an­nually, and the early retirement program probably will not suf­flee. 
"While we're hopeful that em­ployees opting to leave under this program will reduce the need for other reductions," Poling said, "it's becoming in­creasingly clear that some salaried layoffs are inevitable in the short term." 
There are approximately 53,000 white-collar employees on Ford's payrolL Poling didn't set a target, but there was speculation that the cuts could wind up being close to 10,000 jobs. 
Ford officials said employees eligible for the early retirement program would be able to sign up through this month. Their retirements must take effect by May 1. Officials will be able to see how many layoffs will be needed after the early-retire­ment enrollment program ends. 
Earlier in February, General Motors Corp. Chairman Robert Stempel announced a program designed to eliminate about 15 percent of the company's 100,000 salaried workers dur­ing the next two years. 
A GM cost-cutting plan im­plemented in 1987 has knocked $13 billion from the au­tomaker's annual costs, which amounted to about $114.2 bil­lion last year. 
Also last month, Chrysler Chairman Lee lacocca boosted to $3 billion the automaker's cost-cutting objective. That program, begun in 1989, has resulted in the reduction of an estimated 3,000 jobs from Chrysler's 24,000 white-collar work fQrce. 
Last year, the Big Three signed three-year labor con­tracts with the United Auto Workers union in effect fixing previously variable costs asso­ciated with temporary layoffs. The companies set aside pools of money from which laid off workers would be paid up to 95 percent of their regular pay. 
GM's fund is approximately $4.1 billion, Ford's is about $1.6 billion and Chrysler's is about $660 million. 
Since the contracts were signed, car and truck sales have taken a dive along with consumer confidence, resulting in a record $2.1 billion in losses during the fourth quarter of last year for the three compa­nies. 
Stempel, Poling and lacocca each have said they don't ex­pect things to improve in the near future. 
"It appears we'll have a sub­stantial loss in the first quarter of this year," Poling said. 
United Auto Workers union spokesman Karl Mantyla said he had no immediate comment on Ford's announcement. 
The $3 billion cost-cutting program began last July and about half of the target has been reached. The rest of the cuts should be done by the end of this year, Poling said. 
With the Dow Jones industrial average down slightly, Ford stock closed at $32.50, up $2. GM closed at $39.50, up $1.75, and Chrysler stood at $14.25, also up $1.75. 

CHICAGO (APl -Lower steel demand is fon~ing Inland Steel Co. to lay off approximately 630 workers and reduce work WIH~ks for others at its only plant, tho steelmaker said. 
Tho company employs 14,700 at th11 Indiana llarbor Works in East Chieago, Ind.-13,140 at its Inland Steel flat Products Co. and 1,560 at Inland Bar and Structural Co. 
IBSC is shutting its mills next week and furlowing about 370 people, the company said Thursday. Recalls are expected when the operations resume on March 9. 
ISFPC had laid off 160 people and reduced work weeks for others this week after it idled a blast furnace. The unit will lay off an additional 100 employees beginning Sunday, and expects more layoffs in coming weeks as other department adjust to the reduced operating levels. 
The cutbacks are expected to last into the second quarter, said ISFPC President Joseph Corso. 
Last year, ISFPC reduced its hourly and salaried work force by more than 1,000 fulltime and temporary jobs, he said. 
Corso expects another 1,000 to go this year through attri­tion. 
Inland reported losing $57.1 million in the final three months of 1990. 
Tampering forces Sudafed recall 
HESEAHCII THIANGLE PARK, 
N.C. lAP) -The maker of Sudafed decongestant capsules orderod a nationwide recall Sunday after being notified by tlw federal government that cyanide tampering was linked to two deaths and an illness. 
"Consumers should avoid tak­ing Sudafed 12-llour Capsules, and return all Sudafed 12-Hour Capsules to the store from which they purchased the prod­uct." manufacturer Burroughs Wdkome said in a statement. 
Washington state and federal officials ordered a recall of the capsules from two counties in Washington late Saturday night. 
In February, a 40-year-old Tacoma, Wash., woman died of cyanide poisoning and a woman from Tumwater was treated after becoming seriously ill, reportedly after taking Sudafed capsules laced with cyanide, said Susan llutchcroft of the federal Food and Drug Administration. 
The company said the federal agency had notified them of two deaths within the last 24 hours. 
"At 4 a.m. today we were noti­fied of the second death. It ap­parently occurred on the 18th of February and involved a man from Lacy, Wash.," said company spokesperson Sharon Haggerty. 
The other death, as well as the illness, also occurred in Washington state. No deaths or illness related to Sudafed have been reported in other parts of the country. 
The company said it is working with the FDA, the Washington state health department, the FBI and others to investigate the incidents. 
"We are moving rapidly to alert the public and retrieve all Sudafed 12-Hour Capsules from the retail stores," said Philip Tracy, president and chief executive officer of Burroughs Wellcome Co. 
"Our sympathies go to the families of the individuals in­volved, and they have our as­surance that the company will investigate these incidents 
TWA announces air fare cuts to attract flyers 
NEW YORK (AP) -Trans World Airlines announced an­other round of drastic fare cuts Friday, slashing the price of first-class and business-class tickets between six major U.S. cities and London. 
TWA said first-class tickets were being cut by 60 percent and business-class fares were being cut by 50 percent. The tickets must be purchased by March 15, for travel between March 3 and May 31, TWA said. 
The flights are good out of New York, Philadelphia, Boston, Baltimore, Chicago and Los Angeles. 
As an example of the savings, TWA said a first-class one-way fare from New York to London was being reduced from $3,205 to $1,282. 
TWA and numerous other air­lines had recently offered cheap tickets in a promotion which was good through Friday. 
Airlines generally move quickly to match cheap fares offered by their competitors, but it was not immediately clear Friday night if any rival carriers were following TWA. 
After the shooting ceased in the Persian Gulf War this week, there was speculation that de­pressed trans-Atlantic air traf­fic would pick up as public fears of terrorism subside. But a TWA spokesperson said the end of the war had nothing to do with the latest ticket sale. 
"We're trying to entice people to fly," he said. 
TWA, one of the nation's most troubled airlines, recently de­faulted on a $75 million bond payment, saying it needed to hang onto the cash to stay alive. 

A.P. Photo 

Bread Tag Collection 
Second grade students of the Harvard Elementary School in Harvard, Mass., toss up some of the collection of over 900,000 bread tags collected over the past eight years to teach students about realized numbers in math. 
r 
-
r 
f 
r 
r Viewpoint 
Monday, March 4, 1991

a e 10 


Victory sends mistaken pro-war message 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is-encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Dear Editor: 
America has virtually won the war (Bravo!). Our armed forces have proven that they can still kick tail in any Third World country as long as it's not a jungle (Way to go!). They car­ried out their duties with skill and precision, and now the U.S. has made up for its loss in Vietnam (Hip-Hip-Hooray!). Many of the war toys were quite effective (Let's hear it for the Patriot missiles!) against those nasty Iraqis (Boo-hiss!). Definitely a victory to be proud of (Not). 
The Iraqis will soon be driven completely from Kuwait (that incredibly important ally of ours). And, hey, while we're there, let's take Baghdad and get a cellmate for Manuel Noriega-! hear he's getting lonely. Off the top bunk, Manny, there's a new tyrant in town! Saddam's got one up on you-he lasted longer than a few hours. 
What will George do to top this one? Now that he's proven that war is the best way to re­solve conflict, he's got quite a list of acts of aggression to curb. Let's get this new world order thing underway! 'Got to be selective though. Gotta be prudent. Can't go doin' that military thing everywhere now. Not gonna do it.' 
DOONESBURY 
Let's start with righting the injustices of the South African government against the black people of its nation-oh no, we can't do that, the South African government is only killing the people in its country; it hasn't officially invaded anybody. How about taking a hard line on the Tianamen Square Massacre with the Chinese? Naah, there's too many of 'em. What about helping out the Soviets before they invade themselves? Nope, we'll let Gorby go under and get some good hard line Communists in power-can't go losing our best enemy now. It's bad for defense contracts. 
So what exactly is this new world order our fearless leader envisions? I think it's all about the military and the use of force in resolving conflicts. In fact, I don't think this is a new world order we're headed for. There's nothing "new" about war. War is old, and in war is disorder. Peace is new. Peace brings order. 
Don't get me wrong, I'm glad we are the victors in this war-better us than Saddam. But our victory in this war has a terrible consequence: It serves to support the mistaken belief that war is the way to solve in­ternational conflicts. We did not work hard to find a peaceful solution here. A five month "trial run" for sanctions, a few hours in Geneva and a whole­sale rejection of all peace pro­posals are not exhaustive at­tempts at peaceful resolution. If we hadn't responded to Saddam's violence with vio­lence, Israel would not have been attacked, Kuwait would most likely still be standing and the atrocities against the people of Kuwait would not have escalated as they did before the ground war. If President Bush wants a "new world order," I've got a "new" suggestion for him: Give peace a chance. 
War is no longer a rational option in this era of weapons that can destroy the world many times over. War no longer affects just the soldiers who fight, but all of humanity. The missiles are poised and ready to be fired. We're just asking for it by waging a war when the whole world is on a hair-trigger, ready to annihilate itself. 
George Bush was lucky this time, but the fact that he was lucky doesn't make him right. Sure, war got the job done, but since when does the end justify the means? No matter how you put it, war doesn't bring a last­ing peace. Is this "new world order" really about peace? 
Matt Umhofer 
Cavanaugh Hall 
Feb.26, 1991 

YOUR.5URG£0N TEUS Mt YOUR. OPeRATION WASA HUMON601JS 
5Uta595' SHe 54YS YOU M16HT 
tVtN BE3 ABW 7V 1<13TURN 70 
YOUR UNITAT 7Hf3 FRONT! 
Band defends its image, apologizes for members' irresponsible actions 
Dear Editor: to say that we play it enough 
I am writing in response to that we don:t feel an urge to Steve Wagner's letter about the hum it at basketball games. conduct of certain band Several members of the band members at Notre Dame bas­went to the Blockbuster Bowl ketball games (The Observer, while we were in Miami for the Feb. 26). I would first like to say Orange Bowl and they that this is not to defend the borrowed or "adopted" FSU's offensive acts, but to defend the chant. No harm is meant, nor is image of the Notre Dame Band any lack of ND spirit intended. in general. We recognize the Besides, it's just a generic fact that, as members of the Indian type war chant and Mr. band, we represent the Wagner doesn't complain when University in a greater capacity we play Indian war drum beats. than the average student, espe­In closing, the members of the cially while in uniform. band put in as many as 20 Considering our high visibility, hours a week during marching we have policies within the season, at the expense of many band that govern behavior that things-a respectable GPA, go ev~n beyond the far-reaching interhall sports, social lives, etc. arms of du Lac. The only reward they officially 
receive is one token useless 

The official band manual, credit. It is not an academic which is given to all members of credit, so it does not apply the band, states: "The band towards graduation. These represents the University in ap­same members are the ones proximately 70 public that perform at basketball appearances each year, and it is games. They do so in support of necessary to formulate a the University; they perform as general policy on the matter. best they can whether the team Therefore: Any band member is 12-4 or 4-12. who brings objectionable attention or criticism to the l apologize on behalf of the University or to the Band (i.e. band to the woman who left public appearances, tour, with her son because of a few football trips, drinking in irresponsible remarks by some uniform, etc.) will be dismissed of the less responsible band from the band." members. I hope that she 
doesn't encounter that same 

It is possible to prevent any problem in the general student and all such instances from oc­section. I mostly hope, however, curring. Had this matter been that the rest of the thousands of brought to the attention of a people who see the band each band officer or director at the year don't judge its entire time, that member would have membership by the actions of a been dealt with accordingly. few. 
As for the Florida State Seminole war chant (not the Jerry Larkin FSU fight song as suggested), President, University of Notre the band played our fight song Dame Bands 1990-91 419 times this fall (we kept Grace Hall track for a pool). I think it's fair Feb.26,1991 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

UM... 
I
I 
!XJN'T 5TRAIN YOUR.­'3l3lf/ HA,HAi I'M eNSIGN TRIP TRIPUR, MORAU OFFiaR. HeRE 
ON !He "MeRC-Y"-' \ 

'Let us not be blind to our differences-but let us also direct attention to our common interests and the means by which those differences can be resolved.' 
John F. Kennedy 

,~ --------------­
...

Accent 
Monday. March 4, 1991 page 11 
Hypnotist I magician goes 'Beyond Imagination' 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Accent Writer 
Your eyes are growing heavy. Tick. Tock. Tick. 
but also off stage ... I have seen a number of Tock. You are feeling very sleepy. Tick. Tock. Tick. hypnotists at work and would have to say that Dr. Tock. When I snap my lingers, you will be under my Wand is on the top of the list." power. Snap! Audience participation is crucial to Wand's show. 
lie is a hypnotist. lie is a magician. He is a Although he invites only about thirty people on the comedian. lie is Dr. Jim Wand, "Master of the stage to actually be hypnotized, he combines humor Mind," and he is performing "Beyond Imagination" and self-help techniques to involve the entire crowd. at Notre Dame on Thursday, March 7. Since each audience is different, Wand feels it is 
With a background in psychology, sociology, and important to slightly alter each performance to counseling and twenty years of experience, Wand cater to the individual needs of the group. For has achi1wed national recognition in the field of example, Notre Dame's exhibition for two hundred hypnosis. I lis proficiency of the art of hypnotism has people will differ from that of the college of Saint brought about a rain of praise for his excellence as Benedict and Saint John's University which was an educator, therapist, self practitioner, and attended by 2,000 students. entertainer. Wand's publicity department explained, "each 
Armed with keen wit. charisma. and expertise, performance is unpredictable and takes a unique Wand has performed publiely on over 2,500 style of its own." occasions. His unique ability to captivate his The show on Thursday night will mark the first 
audience through humor and showmanship as well time that Dr. Jim Wand has visited the Notre Dame as hypnosis has set him apart from other members and Saint Mary's community. Other universities, of his liold. however, have witnessed Wand's skill a number of 
Public figures such as .lay Leno, the Chicago times. Bears, Miami Sound Machine, George Strait, and Orville Hiles, Director of Graceland College, the .Judds can attest to Wand's mesmerizing skills. remarked in a letter to Wand, "We are happy to 
Including these celebrities, Wand has hypnotized report that we are still receiving accolades on your ovnr 150,000 people to this date. behalf for your fifth visit on campus... In my 15 year 
Wand's main o.ff'ice is located just outside of tenure we have never invited any entertainer more Chieago in East Dubuque, Illinois, but he spends than three times." most of his time taking his performances on the road. Jim Wand will be appearing in Theodore's of 
In addition to his regular presentations, Wand Lafortune at 8:00 p.m. on Thursday, March 7. tours college campuses across the country. Tickets can be picked up at the Lafortune According to the Student Activities board at South Information Desk and will be distributed on a first-
Dakota Stat1~ University, "The audience was with Dr. Wand from the beginning; laughing, responding and 
'Expressions' 
celebrates cultural diversity 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
TalPnts with a purpose were showcased at a program Saturday night to n~lebrate and inrrease awarnness of cultural d i v1~ rsi ty. The Sisters of Nefertiti. adorrwd in black Pvening attirP, set thP stage with a tlw m a tic poem of drPams and hope Pntith~d "/\nd Still I Hise." Such hope was ex­tt-ndl~d to those SNving in the 1'1~rsian (;ulf, for whom the program was dedieated. 
/\ngtda McDonald, one of the eight coordinators of /\n l·:xpression in Hhythm and Hhynw, described the program as a collection of "musieal sn­IPctions, skits, and black po­etry." Originally scheduled as a part of Black llistory Month but postponed because of snow, the production was designed to "promote cultural awareness in a fun and entertaining way." 
Students from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame participated in the two-hour long production which was emceed by Master of Ceremonies, Walter Boyd. Boyd, looking very debonair in a tuxedo compliments of Louie's Tux Shop, expressed his happiness of being able to work with so many lovely ladies and in a program that "all should share, black or white." 
To introduce the nature of the expressive talent, Boyd said, "Black language is a direct, creative, intelligent, com­munication between black peo­ple based on a shared reality, an awareness [and) under­standing which generates in­teraction." 
Such language was evident in the various readings presented. Fred Tombar played a dual role in his dramatic interpretation of a father-son dialogue entitled "Fences." In this scene, the father explained that tarring the roof is more important than buying a television and that the son's job at the A&P takes precedence over being on the football team. 
Tombar did double duty by reading a fellow student's po­etry. "That I Fell," a poem by Eric Bailey in praise of women, begged "sing sister sing, that makes me want to dance until I can't dance anymore." Another of Bailey's poems, "Praise Song for the President," expressed his disapproval of the Middle East War, saying that it is "breaking down !the progress) when we were starting to get started." 
In a rendition of "If the Drum is a Woman," Tina Buchanan brought the house down with emotion and fervor, having to pause once until the crowd calmed down. Buchanan said that the poem is "significant of our struggle and hope for the future. [It represents] the struggle in any woman." 
Other poems were presented by Keith McCoy, James Suttle, and Atim Appio. The messages included that color is nothing to be feared, the irony of liberty, encouraging him to continue. The subjects were responsive and treated with dignity ... Not only did Dr. Wand exceed our expectations as a performer, 
come, first-serve basis. This event is sponsored by the Campus Entertainment department of the Student Union Board. 
~-. 

Michele Cage's rendition of the recently released Anita Baker hit, "Good Enough" was one of the various musical selections performed. 


freedom and democracy in the time of Dixie, and thanks to God for being created black. 
"The body can create every nuance of emotion," announced Boyd just before Danielle Duchatellier performed a mod­ern dance to the song "Cry" by Alvin Ailey. The choreography in this dance was symbolic of the struggle of black women throughout history. Duchatellier chose an Ailey piece because he is a "role model [and has been I an at­tribute to the success of [the advancement of colored peo­ple)." 
Musical selections ranged from gospel to rap. Michele Cage's performance of "Good Enough" proclaimed, "For your love, I'd walk through fire." According to Boyd, rap can be educational, as Corey Babington spoke of black pride in "The 'X' Factor." 
Joe Watson performed an impromptu stand-up comedy act. There were wild audience plants who laughed and shouted at appropriate times, not that the general audience needed any prompting. Watson illustrated how little crime there is in his small hometown by saying that "our idea of a mugging is going into a 7-11 with a refill cup." 
!\II of the performances in /\n Expression in Hhythm and Hhyme were the results of the efforts of the Sisters of Nefertiti, a group at Saint Mary's composed of /\tim 1\ppio, Tina Buchanan, Tenesia Davis, Suzanne Glass, Michelle Hill, Angela McDonald, and Olivia Porter. 
Monday, March 4, 1991 The Observer page 12 
..... 
Sullivan. "I want into games fo­complete, the Cardinals will 
cused. In my mind, I never re­look ahead to the Metro Longhorns upset #3 Razorbacks
Sullivan 
ally worry about that Oow point Conference tournament, hoping continued from page 20 totals). A lot of people say, 'He to salvage something out of this 
had a bad shooting night,' but I disappointing season. At 12-15, been struggling of late, scoring was only taking three or four Louisville is facing its worst a total of 22 points while going shots (in those games)." record since 1941-42. The 5-of-24 from the field in Crum must have figured that Cardinals are making a final Louisville's previous four four shots a game weren't run, though, winning their last games. But Saturday, the 6-5 enough for a player of three games and four out of swingman shot 6-for-11, in­Sullivan's abilities, and decided their last five. cluding four-for-eight from be­to get him shooting more, espe­"Momentum is following us," hind the three-point stripe. cially from long-range, because Sullivan said. "(We're) on a roll. 
"I thought Everick played the his three-point bombs hurt the I want to get everybody playing best he's pl-ayed in a long time," Irish. hard." said Louisville coach Denny Crum promised that Southern Crum. "He didn't back down. "Once or twice, it (a three­Mississippi, the Cards' first­That's what I liked about it (his pointer) was a specific play. round opponent, will "hear play)." The other time, I was looking some footsteps," and that 
Sullivan was satisfied with his for a three on a pull-up. I didn't Louisville will be going in with play, and his recent scoring want to drive and leave the de­"some big feet." woes haven't fazed him in the cision up to the referee," Don't be surprised if a pair of least. Sullivan said. those big feet belong to one Mr. 
"I felt comfortable," said With the regular season now Everick Sullivan. 
Irish wrestling team finishes second 
Special to the Observer State to win the Heavyweight ti­Steffensmeir of Northern Iowa. 
tle. With the win, Engler ad­At 190 pounds, Steve King of 
The Notre Dame wrestling vances to the NCAA champi­Notre Dame fall to Dave team placed second at the onships. Malacek by referee's decision in NCAA Western Regional tour­a 4-4 draw. King now heads to nament in Illinois this weekend. Marcus Gowens (126) lost to the NCAA's. 
The Irish, with 65 team Northern Iowa's Mark Pustelnik points, finished behind North­14-2 in the championship The other NCAA champi­ern Iowa (113.5), and ahead of match, but, as the second-place onship qualifier for the Irish Illinois State (55.5), Eastern finisher, will advance to the was freshman J.J. McGrew Illinois (37.75), Northern Illi­NCAA championships, (177) of Cleveland, Okla. nois (36), Marquette (18.25), repeating the trip he made last Southwest Missouri (16.5), season. Rich Powers of Northern Chicago State (9.5) and Val­Iowa (177) was named the paraiso (1.5). Notre Dame's Todd Layton tournament's Outstanding 
(150) suffered a technical fall Wrestler, and his coach, Don 
Curt Engler of the Irish de­with 4:01 gone in his champi­Briggs, won Coach of the Year fflated Bob Jones of Illinois onship match against Gary honors. 
(AP)-The fans chanted "SEC, SEC," but they really meant "OUT, OUT." 
Texas handed third-ranked Arkansas only its third loss of the season Sunday night at Austin, spoiling the Razorbacks' last Southwest Conference game. Next year they move to the Southeastern Conference. 
"It was sad to be playing here for the last time," Arkansas coach Nolan Richardson said. "The higher ups make decisions where we go." 
Benford Williams scored 22 points, and Joey Wright and Locksley Collie each added 19. Texas rallied from a 61-47 deficit with 17:39 to go and nearly brought the house down when Guillermo Myers guided a teammate's shot into the basket for an 84-76 lead. 
Arkansas (28-3), which had previously lost only to UNLV and Arizona, was shooting for a 16-0 conference finish. Texas (20-7) won 20 games for the third straight year, a school record. 
"We'll learn something from it. The loss really doesn't hurt the guys who are not from Texas," said Todd Day, who led Arkansas with 18 points. 
In Sunday's other games, it was No. 2 Ohio State 65, Michigan State 64; No. 8 Duke 83, No. 4 North Carolina 77. 
No. 6 Syracuse 62, Georgetown 58; No. 15 Nebraska 85, No. 10 Kansas 75, and Washington 86, No. 16 UCLA 68. 
In Saturday games, No. 1 UNLV beat Fullerton State 104­83, No. 5 Indiana beat Wisconsin 74-61, No. 7 Arizona lost to Oregon 62-58, No. 9 Utah beat Brigham Young 72­71 in overtime, No. 11 New Mexico State beat Fresno State 105-80, Iowa State beat No. 12 Oklahoma State 68-67, No. 13 Kentucky beat Auburn 114-93, Tulane beat No. 14 Southern Mississippi 82-65 and DePaul beat No. 17 St. John's 79-68. 
Also, No. 23 Mississippi State beat No. 18 Lousiana State 76­73, No. 19 East Tennessee State beat Tennessee-Chattanooga 104-71 in the Southern Conference semifinals, No. 20 Seton Hall beat Boston College 81-74, No. 21 Princeton beat Dartmouth 56-49, Connecticut beat No. 22 Pittsburgh 78-68, No. 24 Alabama beat Tennessee 96-88, and Maryland beat No. 25 Virginia in overtime. Sunday's Games No. 2 Ohio St. 65, Michigan St. 64 
Jamaal Brown hit the second of two free throws with one second left, giving Ohio State a share of its first Big Ten title in 20 years. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All 
classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 
NOTICES 

TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
NY TIMES, used and new books Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of ND ave. & Howard 10-5:30 everyday 
RESUMES .. PROFESSIONAL QUALITY. CALL 272-5667. 
WORD PROCESSING Low Rates= 277-6091 
LOST/FOUND 

found: on 2/22/91 a lady's wristwatch was found outside of Knott Hall around 11:00 p.m. If you can identify it, call x1209. 
FOUND: ONE MEN'S SEIKO WATCH. FOUND IN THE PARKING LOT (D2) THE WEEK OF 2/18-22. CALL CAROLINE AT X4354 TO CLAIM. 
LOST 8-9 KEYS 2-22. THE KEY CHAIN IS A WHITE BALL. REWARD. 
CALL MARK X1584 

LOST: I lost my thin link gold bracelet on Wednesday, Feburary 20!! If you find it, please call Jessica at 4824. 
LOST nice Casio calculator. Saturday probably at the Huddle. If you found it, PLEASE return it-no questions asked. Reward. 
call4354. 

FOUND: Gloves in Cushing (2nd floor, rm 224?) on Sun. 2/24/91. Call Matt @3472. 
Found lady's golden ring near the stadium. Paul t.271-0868 
WANTED 

EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. 
CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. 
I NEED ride to Boston 
Will split gas & driving March 7, 8, or 9 
Derek x1373 
RIDE to Springfield, IL or area for SB. Will share driving & $$. Aimee x4112. 
ROCHESTER, NY; I need a ride for spring break; call John x3371 
I NEED A RIDE TO PHILLY FOR SPRING BREAK :WILL PAY HALF GAS/TOLLS-MIKE x3589 
NEED DRIVER(S): One-Way to L.A. area. Call DSI at 232-3784. 
University Allied Publishers. Inc., seeks motivated, entreprenurial students interested in a campus venture. Great resume builder, opportunity for very good money. No capital required. Call David Carlock at (617) 894-5575. 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR 
LAKE PLACID. CALL 
1-800-343-8373. 
EARN $300/$500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 
NEED A RIDE TO MIAMI OF OHIO OR OXFORD VICINITY ON MARCH 8 OR 9. WILL PAY$$$. CALL KATIE X2862.
I 

FORRENT 
GRAD. WEEKEND 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 
4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92 Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone#232-1776. 
Furnished Bedrooms and Shared Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr. Washer and Dryer. $200 per month includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776. 
FOR SALE 
IS IS TRUE... JEE:PS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S GOV'T? CALL FOR FACTS 504-649-5745 EXT. S-6840 
GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U repair). Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. Your area (1) 805 962-8000. Ext. GH-9834 for current repo list. 
AIRLINE TICKET! One-way 
from S.B. to ST. LOUIS. 
Leaves on 3/9. Only $50. 
Call Chris x1067. 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Buying a car? Good rates. Call me 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. 
Office near campus. 
One way tix from NY-SB on 3/17. Cheap! call Janice x2993 
Men's Bianchi 12-speed bike, super lightweight, 19 in. Like new, 3 yrs. old, hardly used. Was $350. Now $200 firm. 258-0752. 
TICKETS 
58/Chic/Denver 1 way Mar 9, Cheap 277-9361 
I PERSONALS 
Is it just me or is anybody else craving HOB NOBS? 
SPRING BREAK SPECIAL SAVE SAVE SAVEll CANCUN FROM $349 A WEEK OF FUN AND SUN!! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. 
1991-92 HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES-Applications due MARCH 20! Contact M.A.White (5521) or M.A.Roemer (7949). Many rewards helping those who need you! 
HELP , PLEASE SAVE ME FROM MY ROOMATE. I NEED A RIDE TO GEORGIA FOR SRING BREAK. IF YOU ARE GOING TO GEORGIA OR FLORIDA PLEASE GIVE ME A LIFT. 
MICHELLE ROCH 284-4338 
ADOPTION: Loving, professional 
couple will give your newborn the 
best things in life. Let us help you 
through this difficult time. Medical 
expenses paid. Legal/confidential. 
Call Barbara and Joe anytime. 
(800) 253-8086. 
Resumes .... Professional quality 272-5667. (Tom Williams) 
ATTENTION! 
National firm has many part-time 
openings. Looking for students who 
live within 100-mile radius of 
campus for special work program. 
$8.10 starting. AASP scholarships & 
internships available. Flexible 
schedule. Call 259-9740 for 
interview. 

• I need a ride to New York-• Syracuse vicinity. If any­one is going that way save me and give me a call. 
X4049 

Do you not have a clue about how you are getting back to ND after spring break is over? Do you live in the New England area? Can you drive a stick? WOULD YOU LIKE A RIDE? If you answered yes to any of these questions, give me a call. I need a passenger for the return trip only. -Moire x4914 
Monica, Just a note to wish you some official congratulations and to wish you good luck over the next couple years. Fire upI yuk, yuk. 
Flo 

••• GRADUATE STUDENTS ••• 
RESEARCH MONEY: HOW TO GET IT! 
DR. JENNIFER GLASS DR. THOMAS MUELLER 
MONDAY, MARCH 4, 7-9 PM 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION AUDITORIUM 
REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED 
Photography for Formals-Halls­Dances-ROTC. Call IHS Photography at 234-8539. 
NOW LEASING LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE 
AMENITIES INCLUDE: -WASHER AND DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATIOS 
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT!!!!!!! Call For More Info Now 232-8256 
2 people need a RIDE to the PITTSBURGH AREA for break. Will help pay gas/tolls. Lisa X3783 or Dan X1772 
Take me to PGH for sp break!$$ Dianex4902 Des Moines for Easter] 
FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. 
Happy Birthday Herbie! I miss your doughnuts already. Love and wet kisses, Alii 
Top ten reasons why 11 B says a beer is better than a woman: 
10. Beers don't FACE 
9. FACE! 
8. FACE! 
7. Heisman 
6. FACE! 
5. FACE! 

4. Baited (Thanks B) 
3. FACE! 
2. Stucki 

1. FACE FACE BABY! 
What is FACE? Ask our FRIENDS. 
ATTENTION ALL CREW TEAM MEMBERS (present and former): Today is John O'Brien's 21st birthday. Give him a birthday kiss. Then meet him at Turkey Lake in those nice cabins. Got a problem? Deal with it. 
HELP! I need a ride home to the Louisville, KY area for Spring Break. Will help pay for gas. Call Ana x4914 
Happy Birthday to my wonderful boyfriend. (II I have one after today's massacre.) I hope your 21st is a great one. Love, Betty 
Will pay $100 for ride to S. Florida for break. Call #4274 
NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH for 
S. BREAK$ JoAnne 1275 
TOP TEN SECRETS YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT JOHN O'BRIEN: 
10. He gets chicks. (Not any more) 
9. He wears tighty-whities. 
8. Pizza nachos really turn him on. 
7. He wears tighty-greenies. 
6. He's really big. (At least he thinks so.) 
5. He wears tightly-greyies. 
4. He went to dances with his mother in high school. 
3. He wears tighty-redies. 
2. He does a really sweet Elvis impression. 
1. He wears Garfield bikini underwear. 
Tom-All I can say is that Bank Machines don't lie, people do. Maybe, maybe not. Nevertheless, get creative and fine some interesting way to spend $14.81. ...... m.y. 
118­FACE it! All of you bit the BAIT! Don't be so bitter. 
The TUTUS ARE COMING!!!I!I The TUTUS ARE COMINGI!II!! Are you excited? 
We're Five Guys Who Aren't Afraid to Wear Tutus While Playing Basketball. And we don't mind guarding with affection. 
Ride needed to South Florida for break. Will share $. Call 284-5190. 
GUESS WHAT EVERYONE? JOHN O'BRIEN IS 2111! MALE OR FEMALE-GIVE HIM A BIG SMOOCH IF YOU SEE HIM TODAY. 
GATEKEEPER ROSES ARE RED AND SOMETIMES YELLOW THANK YOU FOR BEING SUCH A THOUGHTFUL, KIND FELLOW KEY MASTER 
TOM (yeah, YOU): your second personal already. play your cards right, and you too could become an Observer celeb ... 
Keri-by the time you read this the micro test from hell will be over. 
Brian-surfers rule-J.C. 
NowLeulng FAYETTE SQUARE 
TOWNHOMES 4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE 
Ameoldes lndu!le" -WASHER & DRYER ·SECURITY SYSTEM ·DISHWASHER ..CENTRAL AIR ·PATIOS 
ONLVA FEW APARTMENTS LEFTI 
ll FOR MORE INFO NOW. 232-8258 

----, 
I 
.. j
SCOREBOARD I I 
Monday, March 4, 1991 page 13 j 
NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS TOP 25 BOXES BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
AIITimeaEST The following team numbers, with caplains listed, have had their names censored. Teams have until EASTERN CONFERENCE Jamison 5-7 1-3 11, Maddox 2-5 0-4 4, Randall 
All nmeaEST KANSAS(75) 
WALES CONFERENCE Thursday, March 7 at 5 p.m. to submit new names to the SUB secretary on the second floor of LaFortune. Atlantic Division 4-7 9-11 17, Brown 2-7 2-3 8, Jordan 4-11 3-312,
Patrick Division All new names must be clean or the team number will be used for your official name: w L Pet GB L10 Streak w L T Pts GF GA Richey 2-2 0-0 6, Wagner 0-0 0-0 0, Woodberry 1­Boston 42 16 .724 
6-4 Lost! NY Rangers 33 22 12 78 253 210 3 0-0 2, Seen 6-8 0-4 12, Tunstall 1-1 0-0 3, 28 -Joe Bianco 29 -Mark Manuel 51 -David Hllbers 60 -Kevin Flaherty 
Philadelphia 31 27 9 71 223 209 Johanning 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 27-51 15-28 75. 75-Chris Woods 88 -Michael Whitman 94 -Aaron Kutylo 97 -Man Novak Philadelphia 32 25 .561 91/2 7-3 Lost! 
Pittsburgh 32 30 4 68 281 257 102-Anthony Aguilar 112 -Greg Cornick 125 -John Bergman 167 -Steve Kelley Washington 22 36 .379 20 1-9 Lost6 New Jersey 28 28 II 67 234 221 Lively 0-0 0-0 0, Raid 3-10 4-5 10, King 5-9 4-5 169-Tom O'Leary 173 -Tim Rogers 178 -Scott Stengel 179 -Andy Veitch 
New York 27 31 .466 15 6-4 WenS NEBRASKA (85) 
New Jersey 19 38 .333 22 1/2 5-5 Lost I Washington 29 32 5 63 211 228 14, Moody 1-3 0-1 2, Scales 5-9 3-4 14, Ramos 2-208-John Balhoff 213-Brian Collins 221 -Mike Faccenda 224 -Man Miller Miami 18 39 .316 23 1/2 5-5 Won2 NY Islanders 21 37 9 51 190 247 4 1-2 5, Farmer 6-10 6-7 18, Hayes 2-5 3-4 7, 231 -Jeff Ajhar 236-Jim Voelker 237-Gregory Wong 256-Jubba Beshin 
Adams Division 260-Mike Laistofaro 273 -Mark Rahiya 295-Leo Story 302-Tim Fischer Chicago 41 15 .732 9-1 Lost! X·Boston 38 21 8 84 250 223 0-0 0-0 0, Cresswell 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 29-60 26-35 315 -Alyssa Fleck 316-Rob Prock 322 -Doug Rush 334 -Paul Cifelli Detroit 38 22 .633 5 4-6 Won I 85. 
Central Division Piatkowski 4-8 5-7 13, Owens 1-2 0-0 2, Chubick 
x·Monlraal 34 25 8 76 231 207 337-Mike Palmer 348 -Heather Winiecki 352-Mike Jeffers 356 -Darrell Clark 
Milwaukee 36 23 .610 6 1/2 6-4 •·Buffalo 25 25 16 66 233 226 Halftim~ebraska 40, Kansas 31. 3-point 357-Mike Epperly 372-Mark Humenik 373-Greg Dawkins 389-Kyle Gresko A11an1a 33 25 .569 9 7-3 Won2 Hanford 28 30 9 65 203 226 goals-Kansas 6-15 (Richey 2-2, Brown 2-7, 391 -Mark Thumser 394-Kevin Moffa 397-Rich Bogucki 408 -David Haimes 
Lost! 

Quebec 12 42 12 36 187 298 Tunstall I-I, Jordan 1-5), Nebraska 1-6 (Scales 1-411-John Ellard 420 -Annie Butkovich 443 -Ward Chafin 475 -Jeff Holland Cleveland 20 37 .351 21 1/2 5-5 Los! I 1, Ramos 0-1, Reid 0-1, Piatkowski 0-3). 
Indiana 27 30 .474 14 1/2 8-2 Won2 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 514 -Cesar Capella 515-John Thurston 516-Ray Shea 521 -Bob Wincer Charlotte 17 40 298 24 1/2 3-7 Lost2 Norris Division Rebounds-Kansas 27 (Randall 12), Nebraska 41 537 -Bob Pietrusiak 539-Brian Busby 542 -Steve Heddinger 544 -Katie Creedon 
W L T Pts GF GA 549 -Angela Senander 
WESTERN CONFERENCE (Farmer 13). A-14,615. 
X·SI. Louis 39 18 9 87 264 210Midwest Division 
MICHIGAN ST. (64) L10 
•·Chicago 39 21 6 84 221 173
w L Pet GB Streak Stephens 4-7 3-3 II, Steigenga 4-8 4-4 15, NO-TEXAS BOX NCAA WRESTLING Ulah 38 18 .679 8-2 Won3 
Detroi1 28 32 8 64 235 256 
Peplowski 4-6 0-0 8, Montgomery 2-5 0-0 5, Smith
21 207 227
San Antonio 36 19 .655 I 1/2 4-6 Won I Minneso1a 33 13 55 9-25 0-0 23, Hickman 0-4 0-0 0, Penick 1-2 0-0 2, NOTRE DAME (13) TEXAS (4) Wast Reolooala Results 
Toronto 18 41 B 44 201 279 ab r h bl ab r h bl
Houston 33 24 .579 5 1/2 7-3 Won I Zulauf 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 24-58 7-7 64. Team Standings: 
Dallas 21 35 .375 17 4-6 Los12 Smythe Division Danapilis rf 5 2 4 3 Murray lf-cf 3 1 I 0
OHIO ST. (65)
x·Los Angeles 85 284209 Counsell 3b 
Orlando 19 38 .333 19 1/2 5-5 Lost2 39 20 7 Jackson 8-16 3-5 20, Lea 6-12 2-2 14, Carter 5-9 6 1 I 0 Cherrone cf 2 0 0 0 1. Northern iowa (UNI) 113 112 
•·Calgary 37 22 7 81 282 211 Meec-2b 51 1 0 Secrist rf 2 0 0 0
Minnesota 18 38 .321 20 2-8 Los12 0-1 10, Baker 1-9 2-5 4, Brown 3-12 1-2 8, Jent 1-2. Notre Dame (NO) 65 
Edmonton 30 31 5 65 223 220 Jacobs lb 3 2 2 4 Belklf 1000
Denver 16 40 .286 22 2-8 Won 1 3 0-0 2, Davis 1-1 0-0 2, Robinson 1-1 1-1 3, 3. Illinois State (ISU) 551/2 
Pacific Division Winnipeg 23 35 11 57 230 248 Binkiewicz I b 1 0 0 0 Pughtb 5022 4. Eastern Illinois (EIU) 
Brandawia 0-0 0-0 0, Skelton t-1 0-0 2. Totals 27-37 3/4
Vancouver 24 37 7 55 207 265 Leahydh 3 0 I 0 Lucec 3110
Portland 45 14 .763 5-5 Won1 64 9-16 65. 5. Northern Illinois (NIU) 36 
x-clinched playoff berth 2100
LA Lakars 42 16 .724 2 1/2 6-4 Los11 Halftime-Michigan St. 33, Ohio St. 32. 3-point Smithdh Kieschnick dh 4 1 2 1 6. Marquette (MU) 181/4 
Phoenix 37 .661 7-3 Saturday's Games Hartwell If 3 2 0 0 King 3b 4 0 0 I Southwest Missouri 
19 6 1/2 Won 1 goals-Michigan St. 9-19 (Smith 5-13, Steigenga 7. 16 112 
Buffalo 7, Boston 4 Cassss
Golden State 30 26 .536 13 1/2 4-6 Won I 3-3, Montgomery 1-2, Stephens 0-1). Ohio St. 2-7 5220 Haskins rf-11 2 0 1 0 8. Chicago State (CSU) 9 112 
28 15 1/2 St. Louis 4, Philadelphia 4, tie 1 0 1 1 5 I 9.
Seattle 28 .500 6-4 Won4 (Jackson 1-1, Brown t-4, Jant 0-2). Rebounds­Layson 2b Halter ss 4 0 Valparaiso 1 112 LA Clippers 20 37 .351 24 5-5 Lost! Hanford 3, Quebec 3, lie Maisano ph 0 0 0 1 Moody2b 3000
Michigan St. 34 (Stephens 8), Ohio St. 37 (Carter 
Sacramento IS 41 268 281/2 1-9 Lost9 Washington 3, N.Y. Islanders 2 14). A-13,276. Conway pr 0 I 0 0 Pate 2b I 0 0 0 Championship Matches: Sunday's Games Calgary 5, Minnesota I Haase 1000 ARKANSAS (86) 
Montreal 3, Edmonton I Bautch cf 4 I I I
Portland 116, Boston 1 07 118-Burke Tyree (UN I) del. Gene Marino (NIU) by 
Utah 95, Philadelphia 92 N.Y. Rangers 5, Toronto 2 Day 7-19 2-518, Davis 0-0 0-0 0, Miller 4-9 8-10 IOtais 39131310 nnals ;;Jb 44 n disqualification.
16, Mayberry 3-7 7-815, Bowers 3-9 0-0 8, Murry
Los Angeles 6, Winnipeg 3 
San Antonio 107, Washinglon 85 Notre Dame 120 142 201-13 13 0 126-Mark Pusteinik (UNI) dec. Marcus Gowena
2-6 2-4 7, Bilay 0-0 0-0 0, Huary 3-9 0-0 8, Fletcher
A11an1a 115. Milwaukee I 06 Sunday's Games Texas 000 01 0 120-4 II 3 (NO) 14-2.
0-0 0-0 0, Wallace 3-8 2-2 8, Morris 3-5 0-1 6.
Houslon 104, LA Lakers 95 Toronto 4, Hanford 4, lie E-Luce, Pugh, Halter. LOB-Notre Dame 9, 134-Ray Serbick (EIU) dec. Seen Hassel (UN I)
Totals 28-72 21-30 86.
De1roi1107, LA Clippers 98 Boston 3, New Jersey I Texas 13. 26-Pugh 2, Danapilis 2, Cess, Mae. 11-8.
TEXAS(99)

Vancouver at Chicago, (n) Jacobs, Kieschnick, Halter. HR--Jacobs (2), 142-8teve Hartle (UNI) dec. Robert Young (CSU) 
HOW THE TOP 25 FARED Monday's Games Williams IO-t4 2-2 22, Collie 7-14 4-6 19, Myers Kieschnick (3). SB-Jacobs, Danapills. 
4-3.
5-5 1-2 II, Jeans 1-2 2-2 4, WrightS-tO 7-10 19,
Philadelphia at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. Notre Dame IP H R ER 88 SO 
!50-Gary Steffensmeier (UN I) tech. fall ToddMcCoy 3-5 0-0 7, Burdin 1-1 0-2 2, Cambridge 6­
1 UNLV (27 -0) did not play. Montreal at Calgary, 9:35p.m. Sinnes (W, 1-0) 7 7 2 2 6 2 Layton (NO) 4:01. 
14 3-5 15, Dudek 0-0 0-0 0-0, Fowler 0-0 0-0 0.
2. OhiO State (25-1) beat Michigan Stale 65-64. Tuesday's Games Livorsi 2 42210 158-T.C. Dantzler (NIU) dec. Curt Bennethum 
3. Arkansas (28-3) Iosito Texas 99-86. Quebec at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Totals 38-65 19-29 99. Texas IP H R ER 88 SO (UNI) 15-9. 
4. North Carolina (22-5) Iosito No.8 Duke 83-77. St. Louis a1 Hanford, 7:35p.m. Halftime-Arkansas 55, Texas 45. 3-point goals­Cox(L,2-1) 411366644 167-BIIIy Kumprey (MU) dec. Jim Kossakowskl 
5. Indiana (25-4) did no1 play. New Jersey at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. Arkansas 9-22 (Mayberry 2-3, Bowers 2-4, Day 2-Vaught 213 2 4 2 2 1 (NIU) 9-7.
5, Huery 2-5, Wallace 1-1, Murry 1-4), Texas 4-10
6 Syracuse (26-4) beat Georgetown 62-58. Vancouver a1 Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Toronto 4 5 3 3 I 3 177-Rich Powers (UNI) dec. Greg Gardner (ISU) (Wright 2-4, Collie t-2, McCoy 1-2, Cambridge 0­
7. Anzona (24·6) did no1 play Boston at Toronto, 7:35 p.m. Vaught pitched to two In the 6th. HBP-Cox 11-3. 
B. Duke (25-6) bea1 No.4 North Carolina 83-77. Los Angeles at Washinglon, 7:35 p.m. 2). Rebounds-Arkansas 33 (Wallace 6), Texas 45 (Jacobs), Vaught (Bautch). T-3:16. A-4,736. 
19(}-Dave Malecek (UNI) ref. dec. Steve King(Myers, Wrigh1 8). A-16,231.
9. Ulah (26-2) d1d no1 play. Edmonton a1 Winnipeg, 8:35p.m. 
(ND)4-4.
10. Kansas (21-6) Iosito No. 15 Nebraska 85-75. 
Hwt.-Curt Engler (NO) dec. Bob Jones (ISU) 7-3. 
II. New Mexico State (23-4) did not play. NBA BOXES 12. Oklahoma S1a1a (21-6) did no1 play. 
PORTLAND (116) 2-6, Drexler 0-2), Boston 5-11 (Bird 5-8, McHale 0-8, Green 0-4 0-0 0, Perkins 2-7 2-2 6, Teagle 4-14 NO-XAVIER BOX
13. Kenlucky (22·6) d1d no1 play 
Kersey 9-12 5-6 23, Williams 3-9 0-0 6, 1, Brown 0-2). Rebounds-Portland 49 (Drexler 3-3 II, T.Smith 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 34-83 25-28 95. 
14 Soulhern MISSISSIPPI (21-6) did not play. 
NOTRE DAME (69) Duckworth 7-16 1-4 15, Drexler 11-25 7-8 29, 13), Boston 55 (Bird 13). Assists-Portland 27 Houston 25 21 31 27-10415. Nebraska (24-6) beat No. I 0 Kansas 85-75. 
Knapp 2-6 0-0 4, Davis 7-t3 2-2 16, Nowlin 3-4 5­Porter 5-16 6-6 18, Robinson 4-8 0-1 8, Ainge 7-11 (Porter 12), Boston 21 (Brown 8). A-14,890. LA Lakers 24 22 29 2(}-9516. UCLA (21-8) Iosito Washington 86-68. 
5 II, Liebscher 2-5 6-811, Robinson 7-17 2-2 16,
1-1 17, Young 0-0 0-0 0, Cooper 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 3-Point goals-Houston 3-10 (Maxwell 2-6, 17. 51. John's (20-7) did not play. 
Leary 0-0 0-0 0, Washington 4-6 0-0 9, Orlosky t-3
46-97 20-26 116. Floyd 1-2, Wood 0-2), Los Angeles 2-10 (Divac 1­18 LSU (20-8) did not play. 
0-1 2, Alexander 0-3 0-0 0. Totals 26-5915-t8 69.
BOSTON (1 07) HOUSTON (104) 1, Worthy 1-3, E.Johnson 0-1, Perkins 0-1, Teagle 
19. Eas1 Tennessee Slate (28-4) baa1 Appalachian XAVIER (53)Bird 9-23 5-5 28, Gamble 2-5 0-0 4, Parish 9-13 B.Johnson 1-7 0-0 2, Thorpe 6-14 4-516, 0-1, Seen 0-3). Fouled out-None.
State 101-82. 
Greene 4-8 1-2 9, CampbeiiS-14 4-414, Trgovac
3-4 21, Shaw 2-4 0-0 4, Lewis 7-15 0-014, Brown L.Smith 5-7 0-0 10, Maxwell3-ll 5-6 13, K.Smith Rebounds-Houston 52 (L.Smith 22), Los Angeles 
20. Seton Hall (19·8) did not play. 
1-2 2-2 4, Blanton 3-141-2 8, Krmpotich 4-12 3-118-14 3-4 19, McHale 5-12 7-717, Pinckney 0-1 0-0 12-22 I 0-11 34, Floyd 4-6 3-4 12, Olajuwon 6-12 53 (Worthy I 0). A~sists-Houston 13 (Maxwell, 21. Pnnceton (23-2) did no1 play. 
13, Spann 0-1 0-0 0, Trenkamp 2-7 0-0 5, Ernst 0­
0, Kleine 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 42-87 18-20 1 07. 1-4 13, Wood 2-6 0-0 4. Totals 39-85 23-30 104. K.Smith, Floyd 13), Los Angeles 24 (E.Johnson 8). 
22. Pittsburgh (20-1 0) did not play. 
1 0-0 0, Knannleln 0-0 0-0 0, Shaffer 0-0 0-0 0.
Portland 29 22 32 33-116 LA LAKERS (95) Total fouls-Houston 23, Los Angeles 20. 
23. MissiSSippi Stale (20-7) did not play. 
Totals 19-59 11-21 53.
Boston 29 27 24 27-107 Thompson 2-5 2-2 6, Worthy 8-17 4-6 21, Divac Technicals-Houston illegal defense 3, Los24. Alabama (18·9) dld not play. 
Halftim~otre Dame 31 Xavier 24. 3-point3-Point goals-Portland 4-13 (Ainge 2-5, Porter 8-11 6-7 23, E.Johnson 5-11 8-8 18, Scott 4-13 0-0 defense, A-17,505.
25. Virg1n1a (20·1 0) did not play. 
goals-Notre Dame 2-5 (Liebscher t -2, Washington 1-3), Xavier 4-12 (Blanton 1-5, Krmpotich 2-5, Trenkamp 1-2). Rebounds-Notre Dame 46 (Davis 10), Xavier 34 (Krmpotlch, Trgovac 7). Assists-Notre Dame I 0 (Liebscher, Washington, Davis 3), Xavier 7 (Krrnpotich 3). Turnovers-Notre Dame 30. Xavier 24. Total fouls-Notre Dame16, Xavier 19. A-473. 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Representatives 
For morf:' information contact Julie at 219-n900 o~ 283-2722 
•

American Heart£~ Association ,.Jl' 
•' 


SENIOR FORMAl 
SEN lOR FORMAL 
TUXEDO RENTALS FROM 
1991 " a
LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
PRICES: 

Sign up for 
Black Classic• . _............. _. $39.95+ TAX Designer Tuxedos• .... __ ....... $52.50+ TAX 
rooms, tables, 
Shoes ................ _....... $ 8.50+ TAX 
flowers, tuxedos •
*Includes coat, trousers, shirt, tie, 
cummerbund, jewelry and suspenders. 
PAYMENT: 

Partial or. full payment may be made. (A $15.00 minimum deposit is required at the time of fitting). We accept cash, VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover and personal checks. 
WHEN: 

March 5th, 6th and 7th, 1991. (6:00P.M.~ 9:00P.M.) 
WHERE: 

• 
Lafortune Center, Theodore's on Tuesday, March 5th and Wednesday, March 6th. 

• 
LeMans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's on Thursday, March 7th. 


-

"Wf MAKf YON¥'" 

•
THf fVf · 



The Observer 
Monday, March 4, 1991 

Irish win 14-8 in season opener 
By MARK McGRATH Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team successfully opened the season with a 14-8 win over Canisius Saturday. 
"It was the first game of the season and everyone was really emotional," said Brian May­glothing. "It caused us not to execute as. well as we should have, but we did what we had to do to win." 
The Irish finished the first quarter with the score tied at one. The Irish then jumped out to a 5-2 halftime lead when the Irish scored three goals in a span of 34 seconds. 
The Irish then erupted in the third quarter to take an 11-4 lead. 
This spurt was very impres­sive considering that the Irish were down one man for the first three minutes due to an il­legal stick-penalty against Brian Schirf. During the penalty, Notre Dame scored two short-handed goals. 
The Irish were paced by freshman Robbie Snyder who had a team-high four goals. Notre Dame had six other peo­ple with goals. Ed Lamb, Mayglothing, Mike Sullivan and Schirf each added two goals and Bill Ahmuty added one. 
For Canisius, Randy Mearns, a member of the All-World Canada team, had a game-high six goals. 
"He's obviously their best player," said Irish coach Kevin Corrigan., "You don't stop a guy like that with one person, you do it with good team defense." 
The Irish felt the team's per­formance was good considering it was the first game. However, the defense was the biggest problem. 
"We made a couple of mental errors," said tri-captain Eamon McAnaney. "We'll have to cut those down to beat other teams on our schedule." 
"The coordination and execu­tion as a team defensively was very disappointing," said Cor­rigan. "During the pre-season we did a much better job than that, and I know and we can do better than that." 
Despite the 14 goals, Notre Dame was not pleased with its offensive execution. 
"We shot the ball poorly," said Corrigan, "but we really didn't play that poorly." 
"We played fairly well today," said Ed Lamb "We have to get more shots on goal in order to win our future games." 
The team will begin a three­game road trip next week when it travels to play nationally­ranked Hofstra. 


ICEBERG DEBATES 
RESOLV~D: 
THAT THE UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRRION SHOULD OFFICIALlY RECOGNIZE THE GAYAND LESBIAN CLUB RNOTRE DAME 
LYONS vs ST. ED'S 
TUESDAY, MARCH 5TH 
9PM • LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
A RECEPTION WILL FOLLOW 



·...,.
·,_ ·, . .--~ 

'Occasionally, some people feel a bizarre urge to join lips and limbs with members of the opposite sex. For some people, the urge is frequent.' 
--John O'Brien 
Scholastic magazine, 1990 

Et tu, HERBIE? 
ATTENTION PEOPLE OF NOTRE DAME: IF YOU SEE JOHN o·aRIEN TODAY GIVE HIM A KISS FOR HIS 21st BIRTHDAY! 
I 
~~ 
.... 

Love and kisses from your adoring fans: 
Kelley Tuthill Shirley Grauel Alison Cocks Monica Yant John Kroepfl Flo Hoelker Mike Richardson Bethe Bolger Tim Rogers Natasha Wilson Barb Brown Jill Miller Dan Shinnick Mike Muldoon Matt Gallagher Rene Ferran Sara Marley Erin Tierney Lisa Eaton Dave Certo Corinne Pavlis Dannika Simpson Molly Jason Joe Moody Robyn Simmons Siobhan McCarthy Kathie McCloskey Kathleen O'Connor Eric Bailey Paul Pearson 
ll 
-

Shannon Ryan Monica Eigelberger Blair O'Connor Liza Bourdon Karen Hohburger Rachel Lovejoy Mr. & Mrs. T Alan and Kathie Cocks ...and the rest of your friends at ND/SMC 
------.....­
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 

page 16 Monday, March 4, 1991 
Men's Tennis defeats Ohio State 8-1 in quickest match 
By DAVE McMAHON 
Sports Writer 
The 13th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis went into a brutal tennis environment Saturday night at the Columbus, Ohio, Racquet Club. In their shortest match of the season, the Irish came away with an impressive 8-1 win against Ohio State. 
Notre Dame coach Bob Bayliss expected a vocal crowd, and the Buckeye fans put up a staunch effort in letting the Irish know how welcome (or unwelcome) they were in Columbus. 
"They were the loudest, most embrassive crowd we've ever played in front of," said Bayliss. 
Despite the vocal fans, the Irish (9-5) stayed focused and 
took care of the business at hand. 
At number-one singles, Notre Dame junior All-American Dave DiLucia recovered from a 4-2 first set deficit to beat fellow All-American Ty Tucker, 7-5, 6­1. 
Buckeye fans have been notorious for their extreme support of Tucker. However they turned their attention to DiLucia instead, harassing him from the opening point. After a shaky start, DiLucia let his play do the talking and kept the crowd's influence to a mini­mum. 
"They were saying things about my mother that I didn't approve of," said DiLucia. "It was good that she didn't make the trip out to Columbus this weekend." 
Sophomore Chuck Coleman, suffering from a mid-season slump, suffered a 2-6, 3-6 loss to Gabor Koves at number-two singles. 
"Chuck's struggling, there's no question about it," said Bayliss. "But everyone goes through a stage like this and I'm very confident that he'll come through for us." 
After the tough singles loss, Coleman paired with DiLucia at number-one doubles to take a 4-6, 6-2, 6-4 match from Koves-Enrico Sartori. 
"Chuck was down from the singles match in the first set," said DiLucia. "He got pumped up in the second and played great in the second and third sets." 
An Irish sweep of doubles matches was highlighted by a 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (10-8) win from Ryan Wenger and Paul Anthony at the number-three spot. 
"They've been playing a lot of close matches like that," said Bayliss. "They were down 4-2 in the tiebreaker, and then Wenger hit a great return to get back on serve." 
At number-three singles. ju­nior Will Forsyth ousted Ohio State's Jason Katzer, 6-2, 6-2. 
Sophomore Mark Schmidt easily defeated Sam Sebastian, a former Notre Dame recruit who entered Ohio University before transferring to Ohio State at number-four singles. 
"I was worried about that match because I hadn't seen Sebastian play at the collegiate level," said Bayliss. "Mark kept him off-balance and frustrated him." 
At number-five singles, Notre Dame's Andy Zurcher beat Vito Mazza, 7-5, 6-3. 
In one of his best perfor­mances of the season, sopho­more Ron Rosas cruised to 6-0, 6-2 win against Saumil Jhaveri. 
At number-two doubles, Forsyth and Zurcher stayed undefeated on the evening, beating Katzer-Mazza, 6-4, 6-0 
With the upcoming team tournament at Corpus Christi, Texas, the Irish hope to con­tinue the success they had against the Buckeyes. 

~-----------------------------------------------. ----------------------------------, 
-
American ExpressAnnounces AGreat New 

Travel Program 
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because
Now students can get the Card 
there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is
and get 3roundtrips on Continental 
7days/6 nights and must include aSaturday night. In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all
Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student 
privileges. They include aquarterly magazine filled with informa­There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable a lot of money: And that's by getting the American Express® Card. discounts from leading retailers. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank Continental Airlines. 
address and account number on hand). What's more, 
Just look at the map and pick the place youti like with our special student offer, it's easier to get the to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you Card now wh~le you're still in school than it may can use acertificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, ever be again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 

TRAVEL 
REI.A1ID 

CALL 1-800-942-AMEX e 
SERVICES CONTINENTAL
Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon. 
Complele 1erms and conditions of this uavel offer will arrivt' with your certifK:aces. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillmem of this offer. American Express assumes no liabilily for Cominental Airlines' performance.© 1991 American Express Travel Related Servkes Company, Inc. 
The Observer

Monday, March 4, 1991 page 17 
Irish capture Midwest Regional Fencing Competition 
(earlier this season), and we beat them," said women's coach Yves Auriol. "We still finished first. There was no forfeit." 
The Irish women were as im­pressive in their individual per­formances, as Heidi Piper and Ann Barreda qualified for the NCAA tournament. Piper missed the individual champi­onship by the width of a blade, losing a 5-3, 2-5, 5-2 decision to Larissa Lehmkuhl of Wayne State. 
In a setback for the Irish, Barroda pulled her quadriceps musele while warming up Saturday. which kept her out of individual competition. Barre­da, however, was able to come back Sunday and help the Irish to the team title. She should be completely recovered by tour­nament time. 
The men's epee team made an imprnssive showing in team competition 11s well, with a 5-0 record. including a stunning coml· -from-behind win over Ohio State. 
The epee squad (23-0) found 
On tour from New York-The only national touring production. 
CALLIN ON ROCK 'N ROLL, COUNTRY /WESTERN, RHYTHM & BLUES, BROADWAY SHOWSTOPPERS AND EVERY STOP ALONG THE WAY! 
Andrew Lloyd Webber's International Skating Musical Spectacular 
" ... one of the most astonishing spectacles in the annals of the stage" -Time Magazine 
JOYCE ATHLETIC &CONVOCATION CENTER NOTRE DAME MARCH 22-23-24 
Fri. 8 p.m. -Sat. 2 & 8 p.m. -Sun. 1:30 & 7:00 p.m. 
Tickets: Lower Arena & Floor $30.00 Bleachers $15.00 
Tickets available at the Broadway Theatre League Box Office at the Morris Civic Auditorium Open 10 a.m. to 5p.m. Monday thru Friday 
PHONE 284-9190 
Group & Student Discounts-Bleachers Only 

Master Card & VISA Accepted 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
tf#!TEOLlIf() 
Your SPRING BREAK CONNECTION 
To O'Hare & Midway 
Departs from Notre Dame Bus Shelter 
Fares: $27 one way $50 round trip 
FORSCHEDULEINFORMATION 
CALL 674-7000 
Fleservations accepted ... but not required 
aggravated earlier in the day, freshman Girard was callnd upon to fence the final bout for Notre Dame. Girard quickly proved his mettle with a 5-1 rout of King. 
The foil squad (22-1) includes three very experienced, internationally sophisticated fencers which make it very strong. 
The Notre Dame sabre squad enjoyed an undefeated season until a setback at the hands of mediocre Ohio State Sunday morning. The sabre team (22­1), without All-American Leszek Nowosielski, who was competing in Europe, performed disappointingly against the Buckeyes, who cheered every touch as if it were their last. 
The sabre team sends Nowosielski, Ed Baguer, and Chris Baguer to the NCAA tournament. James Taliaferro, the Irish alternate, who placed seventh in the 1990 NCAA sabre tournament, did not receive a recommendation from the Midwest committee to compete at Penn State. 
Irish men's track finishes eigth at IC4A Finals 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's track team concludPd its indoor sea­son with an eigth-place finish at the IC4A championships this weekend. 
The Irish were led by Haghib "Hocket" Ismail, who won the 55-meter dash with a time of 
6.16 seconds. 
Notre Dame captain Ryan Cahill finished second in the 5000-meter run in 14 minutes 32 seconds. 
In the 200-meter dash, freshman Willie Clark turned in a time of 21.69 seconds to fin­ish third. 
George Mason University captured the team title for the second year in a row. 
More detailed coverage will appear in Tuesday's Observer. 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing toams eompleWd a swoop of all events in team competition, and qualified 11 individual fencers for the NCAA tournament in dominating this weekend's Midwest Hegional Fencing Championships. 
Combined, thP. four Notre Dame tP.ams lost only one match. while defeating thoir other 1 X opponents. Each Irish team Parrwd an invitation to the NCAA Tournamen. 
Tlw Irish women's foil team (I 1)-0) was quite impnlssive in its performance, defeating Cleveland State. Northwestern, Ohio State. and Wisconsin. Notre Dame thoroughly domi­nated each of these matches. Its biggest test would have conw from defending national champion Wayne State, but a committee decision was made to cancel the match, which would have started after all other feneing had ended. 
"We fenced them once 
themselves down, four bouts to one, to the Buckeyes when freshman Greg Wozniak faced the Buckeyes' James Wolan. Wozniak quickly put that bout away, with a quick 5-1 decision. David Calderhead then beat William White 5-2, and Jubba Beshin continued the comeback with a 5-1 victory over Wolan. With the bout score tied at four, the deciding clash was fought between Wozniak and Ohio State's Igor Moreno. 
The bout went into sudden death. After approximately two minutes, Wozniak scored on a well-executed passing move, giving the Irish the win. 
The epee team sends Beshin, Calderhead, and Wozniak to the NCAA tournament. Calderhead, a junior, won the gold medal in individual epee competition, while Beshin and Wozniak fin­ished ninth and third, respec­tively. Beshin, also a junior, won the NCAA epee title last year, while Calderhead earned the bronze medal. 
Notre Dame sends a very strong men's foil team to the NCAA championships, as Noel Young, .Jeff Piper and Phil Leary will be the starters on the squad. All three of these fencers will fence individually, as well. 
In Saturday's individual com­petition, sophomore Young fin­ished a strong second to Wayne State's Stephon Schroeder, while teammates Piper and Leary earned respective third­and fourth-place finishes. 
Schroeder almost single­handedly defeated the Irish foilists in team competition. Schroeder defeated Leary and Rian Girard 5-3 and 5-0. re­spectively, and came up against Young for his final bout, in a rematch of Saturday's individ­ual final. Schroeder gained a quick 3-0 advantage, and led still at 4-2. Young came back to tie him at 4-4 before Schroeder was able to win the bout. 
By winning all three of his contests, Schroeder needed only two wins from his Wayne State teammates to earn the triumph over the Irish. But Mike Cho and Eric King could only muster one victory in their first five bouts. With Piper out with a hamstring injury 
• c.. •
. .
...~ 
• A" • 
• ~~T • 
• C..'-' • 
• ~? • 
.·~' .· 

..··~~"..··· Senior Formal (;~>·· Tuxedo Specials 
• • • • Classic Tuxedo $38.50 All designer styles 20°/o off 
• 
1st Choice Guaranteed 

• 
NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED 

• 
Major credit cards and personal checks accepted 


One man tells another, it's 
·t~rtS 

S!owntown South Bend 
123 W. Washington • 289-5521 Hours: Mon. &Thurs. 9 a.m.-8 p.m. Tues., Wed. & Fri. 9 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Sat. 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 

The Observer 

page 18 Monday, March 4, 1991 
Loss 
continued from page 20 
game. compared to 46.8 per­cent for the Cardinals. Louisville also made good on 
43.8 percent of its attempts from three-point territory, in­cluding 7-of-14 shooting by guards LaBradford Smith and Everick Sullivan, who finished with 20 and 19 points respec­tively. . 
Smith, playing in his final home game at Louisville, scored seven of the Cardinals' final eight points to hold off a late Irish rally. 
Notre Dame led for much of the first half, taking a 29-27 halftime lead into the locker room after point guard Tim Singleton stole the ball from Smith in the Irish defensive zone and fed forward Daimon Sweet for a lay-up as time ex­pired. 
Louisville stormed back in the second half behind the three-point shooting of Smith and Sullivan and improved play on the boards by 6-7 strongman Cornelius Holden and Tremaine Wingfield. 
"In the first half, I was pleased when we did very well at keeping Louisville off the boards," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "But then in the second half, they hit some three-pointers that put them in control." 
The Cardinals took an early second-half lead when Sullivan's two free throws fol­lowing an intentional foul by Singleton put Louisville ahead 40-39, a lead which eventually grew to six with 8:18 left. 
Notre Dame pulled to within two, 54-52, when guard Elmer Bennett hit a three-pointer from the right side at the 3:13 mark. 
But Louisville moved out to a six-point lead less than two minutes later when Smith re­ceived a pass from Troy Smith for an easy lay-up. Bennett fouled Smith on the play, and his subsequent free throw gave Louisville a 60-54 advantage. 
Troy Smith then missed five of his next six free-throw at­tempts, and Notre Dame for­ward Kevin Ellery's three-point play brought the Irish back to within one with 48 seconds re­maining. 
Singleton committed his fifth foul of the game only six sec­onds later, however, and LaBradford Smith, the Metro's leading free-throw shooter, made four straight free throws down the stretch to prevent a final Irish comeback. 
Notre Dame looked in the dark on its final three posses­sions. After Ellery's three-point play, Bennett missed an eight­footer from the baseline, Sweet was called for travelling and Keith Tower had his shot blocked by Holden. 
"I think the game came down to the last two minutes, when we had the opportunities to win the game and didn't," Phelps said. "We really didn't do what we wanted to do in terms of converting." 
Sweet led all scorers with 22 points. Ellery chipped in 18 points and 12 rebounds, and Tower pulled down 13 re­bounds. 
Notre Dame left for Columbia, Missouri, immedi­ately following Saturday's game. The Irish will play Missouri tonight at 9 p.m. 

American Heart Association 

,.---------C E L E B R A T E -------, 
SPRING BREAK '91 
IN FT. LAUDERDALE AT 
fjf!!~:::
~ CONCERT AND DANCE CLUB 18 YEARS AND OLDER ADMITTED 
10A.M. to 6 P.M. POOLSIDE PARTIES 
LIVE D.J. EMCEEING POOLSIDE CONTEST o WATER VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT • FREE T·SHIRT RELAYS • THE BELLYFLOP CONTEST AND CLIMAX THE DAY WITH ... SUMMERS FAMOUS G·STRING BIKINI CONTEST • CASH PRIZES • FREE T·SHIRTS AND OTHER GIVEAWAYS 
7 P.M. TO 8:30P.M. 
COLLEGE HAPPY HOUR 
NOTRE DAME PARTY* MONDAY, MARCH 11 
FREE SPRING BREAK '91 T·SHIRT WITH PAID ADMISSION FOR ABOVE COLLEGE S'IUDENIS BETWEEN 7 a. 8:30P.M. WITH PROPER COLLEGE J.D. 
ALL BEVERAGES 75C 
COMPETE IN CONTESTS FOR PRIZES! 
EVENINGS SUMMERS ON THE BEACH PRESENTS ... FURY PT. lAUDERDALE'S FYNEST ROCK 'N ROIL .BAND NIGIITLYPLAYING THE BEST DANCE MVSIC ... PLUS 6 BARS TO SERVE YOU! 
----~CUP& SAVE . ----Cl.lP&SAVE•---­
NOTRE DAME PARTY* MONDAY, MARCH 11 ONE FREE REFRESHMENT 
GOOD FROM 7-8:30 P.M. NIGHTI.Y 
IUMIT ONE PER CUSI'OMERI Summers on the Beach • 219 S. Atlantic Blvd • Ft. Laud~e. FL • 1305) 462-8978 I LOCATED l/2 BLOCK NORTH OF U.S OU.S BLVD. ON AlAI ADMISSION POIJCY: 18 YEARS OR OLDER WELCOME 
SPRING BREAK '91 
Irish Baseball Defeats #7 Texas 
fact that Cox pitched the
Special to The Observer 
Longhorns to a 6-2 win over 
The eighteenth-ranked Notre the fourth-ranked Miami Dame baseball team won a sig­Hurricanes earlier this season. nificant road victory as it Vaught came on to face two hogtied the seventh-ranked batters in the sixth for the Texas Longhorns 13-4 at Disch­Horns, and promptly surren­Falk field Friday in Austin, dered four runs (two earned) Texas. on two hits and two walks. 
Rightfielder Eric Danapilis led Toronto closed the game for the Irish at the plate as he went Texas, allowing five hits, three 4-5, knocking in three RBI's runs (all earned), one walk with two doubles and a single. while striking out three. Danapilis also scored two runs. The Irish then WPnt on to Saint Mary's (Texas; 6-4, 9-3) and Trinity (8-2, 8-3). 
For the weekend, Danapilis went 13-22. Alan Walania won both games of Saturday's dou­bleheader against St. Mary's, while Tom Price and Pat Leahy were the winners in the twinbill with Trinity. 
The high-powered Notre Dame offense has hit nine home runs this year, and has also scored at least eight runs 
walked once and stole a base. sweep doubleheaders from in five of its six games. 
First baseman Frank Jacobs •••••••••••••••••••••••••111111
provided an offensive spark with his 2-3. four RBI perfor­mance. Jacobs blasted his sec­ond home run of the season, in addition to doubling and being walked once. Jacobs stole one base and was caught stealing once. 
David Sinnes (1-0) was the pitcher of record for the Irish, scattering seven hits and two runs (both earned) over seven innings while walking six and striking out two. 
Notre Dame put the Texas starter into trouble early, as Chris Cox (2-1) was rocked for six earned runs on six hits and four walks in 4 1/3 innings. Cox also fanned four. The pounding 
of Cox is a considerable 
achievement. considering the •••••••••••••••••••••••••IIIII 
\1onday. 
Februarv 25 
Monday, \1arch 4 
Monday. March 18 
Monday, March 25 
Monday, April 8 

Professor John Robinson Director, Thomas J. White Center On Law and Government 
Professor John Houck 
Co-Director. Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
Fr. Edward Malloy 
President 
Professor Jean Porter 
To Be Announced 
"My LeoaJ Ethics Is Not an 5xymoron" "Ethics in Business" "Ethical Decisions" "Medical Ethics" "Ethics in Sports" 



Happy Birthday Scooter! 
Love, ']v{om and 
Vacf 

All lectures to be held in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 7:00p.m. 
Sponsored by: The Provost Office, University Academic Code of Honor Committee and Student Academic Council Committee 


The Film· 
Women On The Verge Of A Nervous Breakdow_n 
is being shown and discussed at 
7:00 pm Tuesday March 5th 
at Carroll Hall-SMC admission is S1. 
•sponsored by SMC Popular Culture Group. 
---·-----. 
Monday, March 4, 1991 The Observer page 17 
a 
CROSSWORD

CAMPUS 
7 p.m. Workshop, "Research Money: How to Get It," Thomas Mueller, department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, and Jennifer Glass, department of Sociology. Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by the Graduate Student Union. 
LECTURES 
3:15 p.m. Lecture, "Bioremediation of Plant Toxins: Pyrrolizidine Allkaloids," Dr. A. Morrie Craig, College of Veterinary Medicine, Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon. Hoom 211, Cushing Hall of Engineering. 
4 p.m. Lecture, "History is Like a Mother: Feminist Criticism, Around 1981 ," Jane Gallop, University of Wisconsin. Montgomery Hoom, LaFortune Student Center. 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "What's Doing in Set Theoretic Topology," Professor Mary Ellen Rudin of the University of Wisconsin. Hoom 226, Mathematics Building. Coffee in Room 201 (lounge) at 4 p.m. 
7 p.m. Professional Ethics Lecture, "Ethics in Business," John Houck. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by The Provost's Office and the University Academic Code of Honor Committee. 
Tuesday 
Noon Lecture, "Obstacles to Redistributive Reforms Under Democracy: The Brazilian Nova Republica," Kurt Weyland, faculty fellow, Kellogg Institute. Room 131, Declo Faculty Hall. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Pot Roast Ala Mode 
Baked Cajun Cod 
Cheese Ravioli 
Cheese Rolls 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WAITERSON 


f>-~\) \t ~'H\-\11'\G ()O£S, Bi GOL\.'i, l'lll GoiNG TO B£ REA.~ ~0~ IT.' 
\ 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Turkish1 As well 

governors5 Crowd together 
ingredient 
56 What those in

32 Mexican dish
9 Attire the van do 

35 Unkempt
13Abate 62 Over again 15---et-Vilaine, 39 Begot 63 Swiss patriot French 41 Colt or Magnum 64 Portuguese city department 
42 lofty, snug 65 Hollywood's 
16 Munich's river Barrett
retreat 17 TV studio sign 66"... or­
43 Bridge card 18 Project swoon to
44 Coral ridge 
death": Keats19 Periwinkle, e.g. 

46 Fictional home 67 "Cry Me a-"20 Longfellow's 
in Dixie 

68 Cart " "Tales of a 47 Soft leather for 69 Colorer 
gloves 70 Sprat's diet 49 Transient of a 22 Blue-pencil 
23 Patch 24 Krupp works sort 
DOWN 

site 51 Subject 
26 Divining rod 53 Decree 1 Down, to a salt 2 Singer Horne 3Abide 4 French assents 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
s Thieving Tom's 
father &Weary 7 Family a Animal shelter 9Yields 

-=+=:,.+;-;.E-8 10 Digression -=+::+.-±"'liilll 11 Arrested 
12 Writer Harte ~;.:+.:~"E+=-t 14 Group of lions -=+::;+:::+.:,+=~ 21 Bolt 
illr.~t:-1 2!l Tender ~:+.::-+7-1 26 Soupc;:on ~::-..=t-:-1 27 Ragout, for one 
-=+::-t::+.:-t:'-1 28 Exhausted -=+:=+:::~+=-! 29 Consider seriously 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WATTERSON 


30 Femur or fibula 50 Different in 55 Rhymer 33 Taj Mahal site 57 Hard to hold
nature 51 Drift 58 Base
34 Hint 52 Nocturnal 59 Emulated
36 Mine vehicle carnivore Penelope37 Radial 
53 Deceptive &oLocale 38 Leap or lunar 
54 Faineant 61 Windy narrative
follower 40 Perfumery weight 
Answers to any three clues in this 45 Coli. rushers 
puzzle are available by touch-tone 48 Assailed with phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each repeated blows minute). 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


.... •• 
~-----~--------------­
• Sports 
page 20 Monday, March 4, 1991 
Hall-Armetta bout provides fireworks at Bengal Bouts 
BY ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Like pit bulls, Jody Armetta and Lou ijall would not stop fighting in their 150-pound Bengal Bouts championship fight. Though both boxers were battered by incessant head blows for the full three rounds, neither fell, and neither boxer gave up, despite their weariness as the battle wore on. 
"That was a tough fight," said Armetta, who earned the unanimous decision. "There were a lot of short, hard punches. We threw so many for so long." 
Armetta won the first two rounds by very slim margins. Hall was able to land numerous punches at short range. But by keeping Hall on his heels, Armetta, the two-time cham­pion, prevented Hall from land­ing many of his powerful straight punches, while pum­meling him with a variety of blows. 
Also well-fought was Mike Trainor's unanimous decision over Scott Mulcahy in a non-di­visional bout. Organizers ar­ranged this non-divisional bout between Trainor and Mulcahy, the acknowledged 170-pound champion, after Trainor was disqualified during the semifi­nal round. 
Trainor was too strong for Mulcahy, and won the unani­mous decision. 
"Thanks for letting me fight, Scott," said Trainor to Mulcahy before the decision was an­nounced. "It means a lot to me. You're still the champ." 
At 165 pounds, Kerry Wate won his third consecutive title, battering Tim Trainor high and low to earn a unanimous deci­sion. Wate asserted his skills throughout the fight, prevent­ing Trainor from landing all but a few of his deadly jabs. In 1992, Wate will attempt to be­come the fifth boxer in Bengal Bouts history to win four championships. 
In a rematch of last year's 127-pound championship fight, Brian Stokes won the 130­pound title by beating Tim Phelan on a unanimous deci­sion. Last year, Stokes defeated Phelan on a split decision. 
Also winning his second title was Eric Milito, who landed numerous head shots in defeat­ing Matt Mullarkey at 145 pounds. 
135-pound freshman Jeff 


Everick Sullivan outshines LeBradford Smith in win 

Gerber used superior boxing skills to hold off the dangerous Mike Jennings, and earn a unanimous decision. Joe Carrigan won a controversial split decision over Derek Bartlett to win the 140-pound 
-o3SS. 
Colin Mullaney had little trouble in defeating Shane Hitzeman for the 155-pound crown, while champion John Sordi battered Lou Toner for the better part of three rounds in the 160-pound fight. 
In the heavyweight division, Mike McCarthy managed to re­main standing for three rounds despite a severe beating by Dan Ward. Ward earned the unani­mous decision. 
At 185 pounds, Kevin Max won his second title after it was discovered that his opponent, Thomas Sullivan, had internal bleeding in his nose, which dis­abled him from fighting. 
Brian Shannon, three-time super-heavyweight champion, was honored Friday. The super­heavyweight class was eliminated this year due to the danger involved. 
The Bengal Bouts raise thou­sands of dollars each year for the Holy Cross missions in 
Bangladesh. 


By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
LOUISVILLE-For the Louisville Cardinals, this was supposed to be LaBradford Smith's day. After all, the 6-3 senior point guard was playing his final game in Freedom Hall, on national television against Notre Dame, no less. 
Instead, junior swingman Everick Sullivan outshone 
Smith, picking up the Cardinals and propelling them to a 65-59 win over the Irish. Sullivan scored 19 points, to Smith's 20, but Sullivan hit the shots that broke Notre Dame's back. 
With 11:14 left in the game, the Irish were clinging to a narrow 39-38 lead when Sullivan single-handedly turned a one-point deficit to a three-point advantage for U of L, a lead they would hold for the rest of the game. 
Notre Dame's Keith Tower tried to make a cross-court pass to Tim Singleton, but 
Everlck Sullivan 

Sullivan read it all the way. He picked off the pass and was fouled from behind by Singleton-which the official ruled an intentional foul. 
After hitting both free throws, Sullivan promptly nailed a 17-footer to put Louisville up by three. 
Then, twice in the last five minutes, when the Irish had climbed back to within two, Sullivan nailed trifectas to give the Cards a five-point cushion. 
This game had to have been sweet for Sullivan, who had 
see SULLIVAN I page 12 Keith Tower, shown here against Syracuse earlier this year, pulled down 13 rebounds in the Irish loss to Louisville this weekend 

Irish rally falters as Cards win 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 
LOUISVJ LLE-Louisville 
coach Denny Crum celebrated 
his 54th birthday in grand style 
Saturday afternoon. 
Crum's Cardinals, suffering 
through their worst season in 
half a century, defeated Notre 
Dame 65-59 at sold-out 
Freedom Hall in their final reg­
ular-season game before this 
week's Metro Conference tour­
nament. 
The victory, which improved 
Louisville's overall record to 
12-15, took some of the pain 
away from a season that, in 
many ways, has mirrored 
Notre Dame's own troubled 
campaign. 
Once again, Notre Dame (12­
18) had several chances to win Saturday's game, but failed to convert its second-and third­shot opportunities. The Irish outrebounded Louisville 17-4 on the offensive boards, but shot only 34.4 percent for the 
see LOSS/ page 18 

Irish women pull away to win over Xavier 69-53 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
CINCINNATI-The 22nd­ranked Notre Dame women's basketball team overcame a sluggish first-half effort to de­feat Xavier 69-53 in its 1990­1991 regular season finale Sat­urday afternoon. 
The Irish (21-6, 15-1) finish the· season as the top seed in next weekend's Midwestern Collegiate Conference tourna­ment to be held in Dayton. Notre Dame will meet the win­ner of the Detroit-Dayton matchup Friday at 3 p.m. 
But first, the Irish fought off a valiant effort from the Lady Muskateers (14-13, 7-9). Xavier needed a victory to qualify for the MCC tourney, and in tlie early going, it looked promis­ing. 
Notre Dame did not score for almost three minutes to start the game as it fell behind by four, but senior Karen Robinson hit back-to-hack baskets around the 10:30 mark to take a 13-10 lead. 
The Lady Muskateers hung tough, however, and with 6:40 remaining in the first half, Xavier's Kim Blanton's three­pointer tied the game at 19 apiece. But the Irish uutscored the Lady Muskateers 12-5 the rest of the half to take a 31-24 lead into the locker room. 
Xavier was successful in keeping the Irish on the perimeter in the half, and they were stone-cold (35.3 percent) as lack of ball movement led to only three assists-Notre Dame averages almost 18 per game for the season-and a stalled Irish attack. 
What kept Notre Dame in the game was its defense, holding Xavier to only nine field goals in the first half and forcing 12 turnovers. 

"(Xavier's) game plan was to pack it inside and make us shoot jumpers," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "After Krissi (Davis) getting her sea­son high last game (30 points against Dayton), it was a smart idea. It turned out to be very ef­fective because we shot poorly from the perimeter. 
"But our defense was good too. It was a low-scoring game, and as defensive games tend to be, it was very ugly." 
"I thought we played our hearts out in the first half. We really played great defense," Xavier coach Mark Ehlen said. "I didn't want us happy just to be down only seven points. I wanted to encourage them to stay with it." 
It wasn't meant to be, how­ever, as Notre Dame built on the momentum it gained just before halftime. The Irish went on a 13-2 run in a three-minute 
see WOMEN I page 14 






