.r-----------------------------------------------­

IU2·1U2 HSQUICINI!NNIAL 
VOL. XXIV NO. 64 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Burtchaell to resign amid sexual misconduct charges 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
Months of rumors surround­
Ing the status of Notre Dame 
theology professor Father 
James Burtchaell have been 
confirmed by an article in this 
week's Issue of the National 
Catholic Heporter {NCR) which 
states that Burtchaell has 
agreed to resign amid charges 
of sexual misconduct with male 
undergraduates. 
Burtchaell had been Investi­
gated by the University follow­
Ing charges by several students 
that he made sexual advances 
to them within the context of 
counseling or spiritual-advising, 
according to the Dec. 6 issue of 
Captors release Cicippio 
WIESRADEN, Germany {AP) -American Joseph Cicippio arrived In Germany saying he felt "terrific" after being freed Monday from his long ordeal as a hostage in Lebanon. Shiite Muslim kidnappers said an­other American captive would be freed by Thursday. 
The Revolutionary Justice Organization released Clcippio, 61, of Norristown, Pa., from more' than nve years' captivity. He was taken to Damascus, Syria, and then flown to Germany and brought to the 
U.S. military hospital in Wiesbaden. , 
After a preliminary examina­tion, officials said Ciclppio "has no apparwt urgent medical problems, other than some needed dental work." 
A U.S. military news release said, "Mr. Ciclpplo says that he feels well and Is In good spir­its." 
Early Tuesday, another hostage-holding faction -the Islamic Jihad for the Liberation of Palestine -said American educator-administrator Alann Steen would be freed within 48 hours. 
That would leave Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent of The Ac;soclated Press, kidnapped on March 16, 1985, as the lone American left. Two Germans are also held. An Italian Is missing, but reports say he is dead. 
see HOSTAGE! page 6 

NCR. In some cases, sexual 
Father Edward Malloy, Provost contact was alleged. Timothy O'Meara and other of­Burtchae.Jl, former provost ficials declined to he inter­and past theology department viewed for the article. chairman, has been on sabbati­The article relied upon cal leave at Princeton University sources "connected to the since August 1990. He would University, both inside and out­not comment on the charges side the Holy Cross order" to before the article by NCR outline the events leading to National News Editor Pat Burtchaell's resignation. Windsor was released. Attempts These sources allege that sev­by The Observer to contact eral students, independent of Burtchaell Monday were one anothe~ approached a unsuccessful. priest in the theology depart­
Father Burtchaell 

Windsor declined to comment ment with their allegations. on the development of the story sexual advances toward them. According to the article, this when contacted by The ·NCR cited "University faculty member forwarded the Observer Monday In South sources as saying that information to then-department Bend. Burtchaell agreed to resign as chairman Father Richard 
The article mentions two early as last spring following an McBrien. former Notre Dame students investigation into the allega­When the information who claimed Burtchaell made tions. University President reached O'Meara, the , sources 

By KELLEY TUTHILL Editor-in-Chief 
A Notre Dame graduate stu­dent said he was one of many victims of sexual misconduct by Father James Burtchaell, but reserved his harshest criticism for the University that he claims ignored the Issue for almost 20 years. 
The student, who talked to The Observer under the condi­tion of anonymity, said he was counseled by Burtchaell during the mid-1980s. 
As an undergraduate, the student was referred to Burtchaell by a friend who said the priest might he able to pro­vide guidance through difficult times. 
"He was my spiritual advisor," said the student. The student talked to Burtchaell about overall concerns, not specifi­cally with his confusion over his sexuality. 
"We didn't deal with (my) sexuality until the last meet­ing," the student said. It was then that the student confided in Burtchaell that he might be gay. 
The student said a year of counseling went by before their first sexual encounter took place. 
After returning to Notre Dame for graduate school, the student said he could no longer forget about his experiences
The ObselverfTim Farish 

with Burtchaell. He said he was outraged when he heard about 
M-1-C-K-E-Y. • • 
NO junior Paulita Llopis, accompanied by junior ZuHiqar Bokhari, 
rumors involving other young 
shields herseH frCllll Monday's sleet with a Mickey Mouse um­
men. 
brella.Snow has been forecasted for today. 
said he began an Investigation which yielded even more allega­tions. 
This investigation was con­ducted throughout the 1990-91 academic year. The article re­ported that the arrangement for Burtchaell's resignation re­sulted from meetings during the investigation. 
The NCR could not he specific as to the details of Burtchaell's arrangement with the University, saying only that sources believed a formal statement would he released this month. 
According to Windsor's sources, University officials would not comment about the 
see BURTCHAELL! page 4 

Student victim discusses Burtchaell's resignation 
• 
University reaction/ page 3 

• 
Burtchaell's ND career/ page 4 

• 
Statement from Holy Cross 


He said he did not file an offi­cial complaint against Burtchaell for several reasons. The incident occurred at a time when he was coming to terms with his own sexuality and made it hard for him to deal with the situation. 
In addition, he said he wanted to put the situation behind him and not deal with this negative experience. 
The student has started to deal with his experience through counseling and even talked to Burtchaell about the incident. The student said he Is Is still in the process of "working it out." 
He said he went through "hell" over this experience, but said he feels anger over why Burtchaell's actions weren't dealt with by the University or the Holy Cross Order. 
He said he cannot understand why a responsible organization wouldn't have addressed the is­sue when rumors were ram­pant. 
"This Is prime example of how the University and the Order looked out for their own Interests before the &tudents'," he said. Both the Order's and the University's priorities were not geared toward helping the students involved, he said. 
The student called for an in-
see CHARGES/ page 7 

Le Due: Journalism· hurt by profit motive; ethics needed 
By SARAH DORAN today and the future in his lec­science of the public, and to he journalism has resulted In News Writer ture yesterday titled the watchdog of the public," he changes In staff at the nation's 
•Journalism as a Career and said. largest newspapers, Le Due 
Journalism has become Calling." The growth of large newspa­said. At The Philadelphia tainted by the profit motive and Notre Dame has had a signif­per chains has resulted in the Inquirer, Gene Roberts, editor consciousness of ethics is icant influence on Le Due's shorter article and attractive for 18 years, retired from his needed to improve the field, ac­sense of ethical journalism. graphics, rather than the hard position for a journalism cording to Dan Lc Due, a re­"Notre Dame IJlt me know that core journalistic style consisting teaching job at a university. Le porter for The Philadelphia ethics and values were OK to of longer, more in-depth ar­Due said Roberts' retirement Inquirer and a Notre Dame talk about in the newsroom," he ticles, Le Due said. This trans­represents another loss of sup­alumnus. said, adding that many re­formation is an attempt to win a port for the old style of journal­
"Profit motivation Is driving a porters do not feel comfortable new category of "TV readers," Ism. lot of good journalism to he­discussing the topic. he explained. Le Due believes The profit motivation that is come had journalism," he said. According to LeDuc, ethics that "good journalism is good driving good journalism to he­
Le Due discussed ethical con­weigh heavily in the future suc­business" and that we must ·•let come bad journalism must be siderations and career options cess of journalism. "If journal­TV he TV." In the field of journalism for ism is to be more than a busi-Changes in the quality of see LE DUC/ page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
lime has come for Kennedy to grow up 
There comes a time in------­
every boy's life when he 
must grow up. 
For Senator Edward 
Kennedy the time is now. 
If the Massachusetts 
Democrat has any hopes 
of reelection in 1994, he 
will get his act together 
and enter adulthood. Kelley Tuthill 
While voters in other Editor-In-Chief states have trouble------­understanding why citizens of the Com­monwealth continue to allow Kennedy to serve, many in Massachusetts have long be­lieved that his political positions are strong enough to excuse his private behavior. Not anymore. 
The Thomas hearings proved that Kennedy's private behavior has had detri­mental effects on his political capabilities. His out-of-office antics made him an impotent figure in the hearings. Everyone on his committee and in the audience knew that the Massachusetts senator was in no position to judge anyone else's sexual behavior. 
Massachusetts citizens have kept this man in office because he has been known as a strong liberal leader-a champion of the rights of women, minorities and the poor. But the Thomas hearings, Kennedy was the hero of none. He looked uncomfortable and powerless as the cameras kept him in view-he was unlucky enough to be seated next to Joseph Biden, committee chairman. 
In 1962, Kennedy took his brother John's seat in the Senate promising to continue to promote the liberal values of his constituency. In 1969, his career w.as flourishing as he became the youngest-ever majority whip. That was also the year he suffered his greatest setback with the widely publicized Chappaquidick incident. 
In the years following Chappaquidick, Kennedy continued to make the front-page with stories of wild drinking and womanizing. In the sober 1990s, the senator no longer can get away with the philanderings of the past. The rape trial of his nephew may be the end of the Kennedy control of the Massachusetts senate seat. Once and for all, his constituents may decide they have had enough. 
While his nephew William Kennedy Smith is on trial for rape-the role of Kennedy in the night's events will come into question, as will his role in a possible cover-up. People will want to know why a man of Kennedy's position and age was cavorting with his nephew and son like a 20 year old. 
At this point, only Kennedy can save his political career. It is time for him to make a public announcement that he has decided to grow up. What he needs to do is simple he needs to enter an alcohol rehabilitation cen­ter and settle down with one woman. 
On Oct. 25, Kennedy told Harvard students: "I recognize my own shortcomings-the fault and the conduct of my private life. I realize that I alone am responsible for them and I am the one who must confront them." 
Kennedy has fmally said what it is he needs to do-now he must do it. Boys will be boys, but now it's time for the senator to act like a man. Otherwise when it's time for the 1994 election, he'll have lots of time to sit and look stupid-alone. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff: Accent: Production: Jahnelle Harrigan 

Tuesday, December 3, 1991 
H L 
52 46 74 68 39 32 52 41 
34 27 
47 32 50 20 33 31 85 73 49 40 
37 34 
50 45 
62 43 
80 76 81 68 52 45 
39 36 
52 51 
57 39 
63 42 
66 47 
48 41 

34 30 63 46 ::':::IW'ahlr..mn. D.C. 58 44 
PrBSSur9 
H L ~~~I ~ rn [:;J EZ3 8 .g) ~ 
~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T..STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
·:;::·

::·=·:·· ·:·· ·:-.::.:·.=· ·.·:·::·· 
..::···

.·.·:. .:::· 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 


Prosecutor: Smith a 'violent' rapist 
•wEST PALM BEACH, Fla.-William Kennedy Smith listened solemnly yesterday as a prosecutor depicted him as a cruel and vicious rapist and his attorney portrayed him as a man who made love to a willing woman in the moonlight. The differing versions of the sexual .,encounter came after testimony began in the sensational trial of Sen. Edward Kennedy's nephew, accused of raping a woman at the Kennedy family estate. Earlier Monday a judge decided not to let three other women testify about their claims that Smith had sexually assaulted them in the 1980s. The ruling served to deflate the prosecutor's efforts to show that Smith had a history of abusing women. But Assistant State Attorney Moira Lasch said she would prove her case anyway. Lasch told of a woman lured to the Kennedy estate only to be raped and pursued by a "ferocious" young man who told her no one would believe her if she claimed rape. Defense lawyer Roy Black countered that what happened at the Kennedy estate last Easter weekend was a romantic encounter between two people attracted to each other. 
CAMPUS 

Schlereth will autograph his books 
•NOTRE DAME, lnd.-Thomas Schlereth, professor of American studies at the University of Notre Dame, will autograph copies of his newest books from 9 to 11 a.m. on Wednesday, Dec. 4, at the University's Alumni Association office, room 201 of the Administration Building. The companion volumes, "A Dome of Learning" and "A Spire of Faith," chart the history of Notre Dame's golden-domed Administration Building and Sacred Heart Church. Priced at $10 each, the books will be available for purchase during the autograph session. They are also available at Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, through the University Alumni Association and by mail order. Schlereth, a 1963 Notre Dame graduate, has been a member of the University's faculty since 1972. He is the author of 14 books. 
WORLD 
Ukrainians vote for independence 
•KIEV, U.S.S.R.-Ukrainians voted 9-to-1 for in­dependence and elected former Communist Leonid Kravchuk as their president in a severe rebuff to Mikhail Gorbachev's efforts to preserve the Soviet Union. The Ukraine would establish collective control of Soviet nuclear weapons with Russia, Byelorussia and Kazakhstan -the other republics where Soviet nuclear warheads are based. Ukrainian leaders also said they would move quickly to draw up a new constitution bal­ancing the executive and legislative branches, form an army from Soviet troops in the Ukraine, control exports to other republics and issue a new currency. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said it would be some time until the United States is ready to make final decisions, but he made it clear the United States planned to recognize Ukrainian independence. He said a special envoy would go to the Ukraine this week and Secretary of State James Baker planned to visit Moscow and Kiev later this month to discuss the transition to indepen­dence. 
NATION 
U.S. companies denounce Japan 
•DEARBORN, Mich.-One after another, American executives told a U.S. Senate hearing yesterday how Japan's corporate cartels have cheated and frozen them out in attempts to sell goods and services to Japanese businesses. Sen. Donald Riegle, D-Mich., has often denounced the Bush administration for failing to slow what he calls the Japanese economic advance on America, principally the ailing U.S. auto industry. Japan's government and many of its leading corporations have said they are trying to address American complaints of built-in imbalances in U.S.-Japanese economic rela­tions. Each of Japan's major automakers has promised in recent weeks to buy more American parts by 1994, but Riegle said the moves are token, given a University of Michigan study that shows their imports of Japanese­made parts to the United States will increase by 89 percent, to $21.4 billion, by 1994. 
OF IITEREST 
•Notre Dame Band Sugar Bowl meeting will take place at the Koons Band Building at 7 p.m tonight. 
MARKET UPDATE 
•Of Interests are provided by The Observer for free, one-time events of general interest to the public. Deadline ·for Of Interests is 1 p.m. the day before publication. 
ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY 
Melissa Cusack Photos: Cynthia Ehrhardt Jake Peters Sports: Systems: Jen Marten John Halloran News: Pat Barth Pete Loftus Julie Barrett 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/December 2 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 226,443,930 210.65 it 2.9 S&P COMPOSITE 381.40 i} 6.1 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,935.38 1} 40.7 

PRECIOUS METALS GOLD-,f $ 2.00 to $366.30/oz. 
SILVER1} 0¢ to $4.075/oz. 
• 
In 1915: The United States expelled German attaches Boy-ed and von Papen on spy charges. 

• 
In 1950: Charles Bailly of Cleveland reported the discovery of a heart-lung device to revive the clinically dead. 

• 
In 1965: The National Council of Churches asked the United States to halt bombings in Vietnam. 

• 
In 1979: Eleven people were killed and eight hurt in a rush to see The Who in a general admission concert in Cincinnati, Ohio. 


-----~-----~-­
-----------------~--------­
The Observer 

Tuesday, December 3, 1991 page3 



Burtchaell's ND career spanned 40 years 
By SANDY WIEGAND Associate News Editor 
As a former theology profes­sor, provost and University presidential hopeful, Father James Burtchaell has served the Notre Dame community in many capacities. 
Originally from Portland, Oregon, Burtchaell entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1952 and graduated from Notre Dame in 1956 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in philosophy. He was ordained In 1960, and became a teaching assistant in tho University Department of Theology the same year. In 1968, he became department chair. 
In 1970, Burtchaell was named Notre Dame's first provost by the Board of Trustees. But he resigned from this post in 1977 with little ex­planation and reclaimed his teaching position. Members of tho press speculated at the time that the administration may have pressured Burtchaell to resign. 
Then 43 years old, the priest had been viewed by many ad­ministrative and faculty mem­bers as the likely successor to University President Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
Burtchaell lived in men's un­dergraduate residence halls, Keenan, Holy Cross and Dillon, from the beginning of his career until he left Notre Dame in 1990 on sabbatical under a Lilly Endowment grant. lie spent the first year of his sabbatical at Princeton University, according to Dennis Moore, University director of Public Helations. 
Throughout his career, Burtchaell has been an outspo­ken pro-life activist. His publi­cations include the book "Hache! Weeping, and Other Essays on Abortion," published in 1982, and an extensive re­sponse In 1977 to a defense of abortion rights issued by more than 200 Protestant and Jewish theologians. Burtchaell also spoke out strongly in 1988 against the use of tissue from intentionally aborted fetuses for medical research. 


The priest's convictions, and his unflinching expression of them, have drawn strong reac­tions from the Notre Dame community. 

Lisa Bourdon, a senior who took Burtchaell's introductory theology course as a freshman, called him "demanding," and "intimidating," but said he was "very intelligent," and she "respected him." 
Dan Byrne, a senior who took the same course, had a similar evaluation. Burtchaell was 
-harsh on papers," and "pinpointed those who did the readings," Byrne said. But Burtchaell was a good teacher, he said, and invited students to a Thanksgiving dinner which Byrne attended. 
Burtchaell was attempting to "motivate students... to teach the class on a highel:' level," ac­cording to senior Brad Boehm, who also took the introductory course. "He is infamous for at­tacking students who don't do the work. He can come across as the monster," Boehm said. "But I came away with a very firm understanding of what he was trying to teach." 
"To some, since the class was hard, it was a bad class. That's unfortunate," Boehm added. 
Designated a liberal early in his career, Burtchaell gave a sermon in 197 5 calling for the ordination of women. In his book "Marriage Among Christians, A Curious Tradition," the priest bordered on an endorsement of .contra-\ ception, saying "it matters less whether any single a.ct of sex be open to conception than whether the entire sequence ... of giving and sex be open to fam­ily." 
His few articles addressing homosexuality have been con­servative in contrast. In a 1960 review of Father Michael Buckley's book "Morality and the Homosexual," printed in the Bulletin of the Guild of Catholic Psy.chiatrists, Burtchaell notecj that early theologians presumed gays and lesbians had "full moral guilt"'for their sexual oriontation, wh lie recent theologians had dismissed all "guilt." 
"An increasing number of moralists and scientists have been working on what promises to be a far more satisfying the­ory," Burtchaell said in the re­view, "one which takes account of modern findings without ne­glecting the doctrine of free will." 
In a 1977 Newsweek article, Burtchaell dismissed research by a task force of the Catholic Theological Society of America which supported less constric­tive morality regarding mas­turbation, adultery and homo­sexuality. 
Burtchaell c~lled the study "a fatuous report by people who have no real scholarly stand­ing," according to Newsweek. 

Quoted by the National Catholic Heporter (NCH) in 1987, Burtchaell encouraged the Catholic press to expose "the weak and inadequate per-• forman co of priests," caused in part by "pathologies involving sexual maturity and material­ism." 
He cited a "dominant culture in many seminaries today which is given to indulgence and ef­feminacy," according to the NCR article. 

The priest has repeatedly la­mented restrictions on ordina­tion. In an article published in The Chicago Tribune in 1981, he commented, "By choosing to ordain only males, and only celibate males, we have so re­duced the pool of possible or plausible candidates that ... we must be content with those who apply and who do not exhibit the grosser signs of unfitness." 

Iugar Bowl 
504 • 248 • 2410 or
Tlakels AYailable 
1 ··800 • 348 • 2299 
<: : .->~~\·.: <::...::-.. ' .·. ··:<:>::\~::. ::.:.:.-::::: ·-:-::::.::::> -:. 
*•$las __ )_ ····-····-> . n:tt .:x.
.tH:>•••••·i·_· 
Willi Continental---Breakfast, Champagne· Reception > Hot d'oeuv•es and a RiVerboatf»addle cruise~.-. ·-·--·-··•-•··----------·-·-··-··· -·····-· } ----¥ $165 5 DAYS 94NIGHTS . •••••• · 
With ContinentiJ 'Breakfast, Champagne Reception, Seafood Hor d'oeuvres and a Riverboat Paddle Cruiser · 
~$145 4DAYS;..;;3NIGHTS With Continental Breakfast, Champa.gne_Rec~ption,.~~ ~ettf~od
Hord' · · · · -----­
.::.:::::::{;;;~:: ... 
For reservations Call 
Woman sues priest over rape 
MISHAWAKA, Ind. (AP) ­A woman has sued a priest and his Roman Catholic diocese, alleging she was raped by the priest while attending grade school more than 25 years ago. 
The woman, now in her mid-30s, said she was repeatedly assaulted at a parochial school operated by the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend from 1963 to 1966. 
She was attending the first, second and third grades during those years. 
The case is scheduled for a pre-trial hearing Wednesday in St. Joseph County Superior Court. 
The lawsuit alleges miscon­duct by the priest and claims the diocese should have known of the incidents but did nothing to protect the child. 
The complaint says the woman alleges the priest and "various employees and agencies of the Diocese" told her not to talk about the incidents. That advice constitutes clergy malpractice and negligence, the suit claims. 
The suit also says the priest and the diocese conspired to keep the attacks secret and prevented the woman from obtaining counseling. The complaint alleges the incidents have hampered the woman's ability to develop a normal emotional, professional and 
social life. 
The priest and the diocese have filed responses denying the allegations. They say the woman's claims are barred by a two­year statute of limitations on personal injuries. 
Sugar Bowl '92 
JSTANIEY H. KAPlAN 
TakE Kaplan Or'faktYour Cl1anccs 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 



--------------~----~ 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, December 3, 1991 


University, Holy Cross react to priest's resignation 
By DAVID KINNEY Associate News Editor 
While confirming the resigna­tion of Theology Professor Father James Burtchaell amid charges of sexual misconduct, administration officials said that Notre Dame will make no official statements about the situation in order to preserve confidentiality. 
On Monday, Burtchaell, former University provost and theology department chairman, resigned from his tenured teaching position. The resigna­tion is effective the summer of 1992, according to Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations at Notre Dame. 
University President Father Edward Malloy was unavailable for comment. Others in the president's office would not comment on Burtchaell's resig­nation. 
A story in the Dec. 6 issue of the National Catholic Reporter cited "an investigation into charges he had engaged in sex­ual misconduct while counsel­ing male students" as the cause of Burtchaell's resignation. 
The Holy Cross Congregation acknowledged wrongdoing Sunday in a statement by Father Carl Ebey, provincial superior of the congregation. Apologizing "to those who might have been hurt," Ebey said that "as a religious family we are aware of the personal tragedy a teacher and a scholar brought on himself." 
Ebey said that the 

Statement of The Rev. Carl F. Ebey, C.S.C. Provincial Superior Congregation of Holy Cross, Indiana Province 
The Holy Cross Community is saddened by the events surrounding the case of Father James Burtchaell, C.S.C. We acknowledge the serious nature of this matter and apologize to those who may have been hurt. 
As a religious family we are aware of the personal tragedy a teacher and scholar brought on himself. Father Burtchaell's work in the past has made a significant contribution to the Church and to academic life. We hope there will be opportunities for him to exercise appropriate ministry in the future. 
Father Burtchaell has been on sabbatical leave from the University of Notre Dame since August 1990. At the request of the University, he agreed in April 1991 to resign from the faculty at the end of his current sabbatical leave in the summer of 1992. The Congregation concurred with this course of action. As well, once the facts of the matter were known by the superiors of the Congregation, Father Burtchaell was asked to undergo psychological evaluation and treatment and he is doing so. 
This is an--anomalous and painful event about which further public discussion is not possible without compromising confidentiality. We prayerfully seek closure and the healing we hope it will bring to all affected. 
Le Due 
continued from page 1 
remedied, first by increasing "bare-boned public affairs re­porting," Le Due said. 
Journalism is a calling be­cause it has a mission other than just acting as a business, Le Due said. The biggest threat to journalism as a calling is the "furious quest" for profits, he said. 
"Truth-telling is what jour­nalism is all about," Le Due than just acting as a business, Le Due said. The biggest threat to journalism as a calling is the "furious quest" for profits, he said. 
"Truth-telling is what jour­nalism is all about," Le Due said. He said he has come to learn that a noteworthy jour­nalist sorts through the facts, distills them and then tells the story. 
Le Due concluded by saying that a good journalist must "remain aloof from temptations for personal credibility and for the credibility of the craft." 
Congregation had been aware of the impending resignation since April 1991. "Once the facts of the matter were known by superiors of the Congregation," he said, "Father Burtchaell was asked to un­dergo psychological evaluation and treatment and he is doing so." 
Although officials said they were unable to confirm Burtchaell's resignation until yesterday, Lawrence Cunningham, theology depart­ment chairman, indicated in an article in Sunday's South Bend Tribune that he had been aware of the impending resignation. 
"I understood that that I would be getting a letter of resignation," he said in the ar­ticle, "but he is still listed as a member of the faculty." 
However, as late as Nov. 25 administration officials denied any knowledge of a possible Burtchaell resignation. 
Moore said that it is the gen­eral consensus among adminis-

Burtchaell 
continued from page 1 
resignation. Only Associate Provost Roger Schmitz was quoted in the article, claiming no knowledge of any arrange­ments. 
"I know nothing about it. If it is known here, it's known only between Father Burtchaell and the provost, and I doubt if ei­ther one of them will offer a comment one way or another," be told the NCR. 
Representatives from Burtchaell's Holy Cross order also refused to comment on the resignation. Provincial Superior Father Carl Ebey said in a letter to the NCR that any response "might compromise the confidentiality that normally governs the relationship be­tween a religious and his reli­gious superior." 
In response to the article in NCR, Ebey released a statement Sunday acknowledging that Burtchaell's resignation will be effective at the end of his sab­batical leave in the summer of 1992. 
The NCR article examined both the University's and Holy Cross order's handling of the situation. 
A former Burtchaell colleague was quoted in the article link­ing the Burtchaell case to ongo-


ATTENTION BUSINESS STUDENTS! 
You are cordially invited to the 
First Annual Faculty/Student Christmas Social 
sponsored by the Business School clubs. 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1991 
6:30 -8:00 p.m. 
BLUE ROOM of 




H~and~~::~:::~and--1:
refreshments will be served. 
All business majors and faculty are invitedt(.
toattend. ..: Call your club officers for more . ·· infonnation. . -, -' 
.: ". /' 
tration officials that the University has handled the sit­uation well. "As soon as the University was able to act in the situation, it did." 
The statement from public relations was consistent with the opinion of the Office of the Provost, according to Moore. 
Theodore Hesburgh, University president-emeritus, agreed. "I think that they (the administration) acted quickly and effectively" once they had signed statements affirming the allegations, he said. 
Although University officials praised its swift action, the statement by the Holy Cross Congregation raises questions about the administration's re­sponsiveness. 

While the Congregation's statement was released only Sunday, its acknowledgment of previous awareness of the alle­gations -perhaps before April 1991 -calls into question why Ebey did not deal with Burtchaell's situation publicly at an earlier date. 
Father Richard McBrien, who was chair oJ the theology de­partment in 1989-90 when some allegations were made, would not comment on the res­ignation. However, he ad­dressed the issue of homosexu­ality in an unrelated article ap­pearing in Nov. 21 edition of Scholastic magazine. 
In the article, McBrien ex­pressed support for married priests as a means of curbing the homosexual population. "Because of celibacy, there are too many homosexuals in the priesthood," McBrien said. "A celibate priesthood attracts some homosexuals not because they want to help people but because they want to hide be­hind it." 
Moore said that the circum­stances surrounding Burtchaell's resignation would not change how the University handles problems such as ho­mosexuality in the priesthood. 

ing struggles between the ad­mind." ministration and gay and les­bian students seeking official Other sources told the NCR recognition from the University. that Notre Dame handled the 
"We wonder whether the uni­situation better than the Holy versity isn't starting to stop all Cross order. Some questioned mention of homosexuality pro why the order did not force or con," the unnamed source Burtchaell out of the public eye, said. "Because if ... people start while others wondered if the to share and to reminisce, this routine counseling in priest sex­(Burtchaell) case in particular is abuse cases was even con­going to rise frrst in everybody's ducted. 
-=-.k-------­
t\ORfftU c'fnl~fR cfOR Tftf cf1 R T s 



-------------~------------~ 
=:·.••'= 


~$ '~ . 

,.:u ~:·' 

%e Mu{ticu{tura{ 'E~ecutive Counci{invites you to 
C1f!R]SPM.9JS .9l!l(OV.!Jfp PJ{'£ WO!l(£./D 
December 4-6 
I · 
Events: 
FIRESIDE CHATS everyday at noon (Great topics, even better yompany!) ISO Lounge (2nd floor Lafortune) Lunch Provided! 
PANEL DISCUSSION ON PRECYCLING/RECYCLING (Helping the earth as we help other people.) Wednesday, 7 PM Dooley room (1st floor LaFortune) Please bring old clothes for collection and donation. 
SANTA CLAUS IN THE LAFORTUNE LOBBY! Plus tree decorating and Christmas caroling Cookies, hot cider, hot chocolate provided Thursday 7 PM-9 PM 
Come in from tlie coU and join us in tlie ce{e6ration! 
page6 The Observer Tuesday, December 3, 1991 


SMC Board recognizes new clubs 
By AMY GREENWOOD along with FUERZA, a student presented a joint proposal to Saint Mary's News Editor Hispanic group. BOG will vote recognize the Student Alliance on another student group rep­of Women's Colleges as a cam­resenting Asian-Americans at pus club. BOG discussed the 
Saint Mary's Board of their next meeting. "We need to proposal but will not vote for­Governance (BOG) unanimously review their constitution before mally until next week's meeting. passed a motion recognizing we can vote as a whole," said Another proposal concerning two new campus clubs at Maureen Lowry, Saint Mary's security improvements will be Monday's meeting. student government president. given to SMC President William 
An African-American student Kelly Nagle, campus club Hickey this week. BOG and the club, called the Sisters of chairperson, and Martha Fire and Safety Committee al­Nefertiti, gained club standing Marzolf, junior class president, ready passed the proposal. 
NO Security to offer winter bike storage 
Special to The Observer by the garage doors. parking lot and then enter the Security will also otTer to ofT­building from the parking lot. campus students only, storage The storage items should be 
Notre Dame Security will otTer 
of valuable items over boxed or packaged to ensure winter bike storage for those 
Christmas break. Off-campus their safety and to facilitate 
interested. Bikes may be 
students can bring TVs, stereos storing them. 
brought to the Campus Security and computers to the Campus There is no charge for theBuilding on Dec. 3 from 3 to 5 Security Building on Dec. 19 service; however, Security will p.m. and again on Dec. 4 from 3 and 20 from 2 to 5 p.m. each not be responsible for damageto 6 p.m. Students should bring day. or theft. Items can be picked up the bikes to the north side of Off-campus students should between Jan. 13 and 17, 1992 the Campus Security Building come in by way of the D-6 during regular business hours. 


Hostage 
continued from page 1 
Cicippio was the eighth Western hostage freed since August, when the kidnappers asked the United Nations to in­tervene. 
In Damascus, Cicippio was reunited with his Lebanese wife, Elham, and she was with 
him  at  the  hospital  in  
Wiesbaden.  
U.S.  Navy  Cmdr.  John  
Woodhouse,  a  military  

spokesman, said he expects Cicippio will be at the hospital for a few days' medical tests and State Department debrief­ings. 
The examination apparently were worried by his appear­ance. His sister, Helen Fazio, cried throughout a televised news conference from Damascus, saying "He's not well. He doesn't look well at all." 
Cicippio was captured by the Iranian-allied Revolutionary Justice group on Sept. 12, 1986. 
Steen, 52, a native of Boston, was seized with three fellow educators at Beirut University College on Jan. 24, 1987, by the pro-Iranian Islamic Jihad for the Liberation of Palestine. The others were freed earlier. 
Tuesday's communique that Steen would be freed was au­thenticated by an instant color photograph of the communica­tions professor. 
The communique said, "We shall release the American Steen within 48 hours." 
Cicippio, asked how he felt as 
he  reached  the  hospital,  
replied,  "Terrific  tonight,  
great."  

A sign above the hospital en­trance read: "Welcome home, Mr. Cicippio." Blue and white balloons decorated the front railing, and the steps were flanked by two American flags. 
"Thank you all for coming out so Iate at night," he added, speaking to about 100 people who greeted him at 11:15 p.m. The temperature hovered around freezing. 
~~r;~~~ ~::If;.:: concern about ...."-TH_E_B-ES_T_A_M-ER-IC_A_N-M-OV-IE-TH-IS_Y_E-AR-!'....' 
-Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE Magazine 
"REMARKABLE!" 
-David Ansen, NEWSWEEK Magazine 
AN EXCEPTIONAL MOVIE."

"****' 
Cinema at the Snlte 
TUESDAY 7:00 9:00 
SCUBA COZUMEL SPRING BREAK 
MAROI 7-14, 1992 DIVER & NON-DIVER PACKAGE INCLUDES: AIRFARE, LODGING 2 TANK DIVES DAILY UNLIMITED OFFSHORE DIVING TRANSFERS DAILY DIVER $995.00 ; NONDIVER $795.00 

In the spirit of giving 
TheObserver/PatMcHugh 

Shoppers peruse the wide 11ariety Ci. holiday greeting cards and 
gifts at the Unicef holiday gift sale sponsored by The Ladies of NO. 
The sale ends Dec. 13 and is located in the lobby of Hesburgh Li­
brary from 9 a.m. to 4:30p.m. 
Wffif~ 
SURPRISE, 
MARIA! 

Happy ill-day! 
Love, the Quint 

Runyourown 



companyat26. 
We're looking for afew good college students and graduates who 
can fill the shoes ofaMarine Corps officer. That's apretty tall order. 
It means leading other Marines. Being responsible for their 
well being. But that's something no civilian job offers you at 26. 
Ifyou think you're a real company man, see your (fi~ 
Marine Corps Officer Selection Officer for details. 
1-800-MARINES. 


.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, December 3, 1991 
NO receives Irish stamp collection 
Special lo The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Libraries have received a major collection of Irish postage stamps that Includes nearly all the postal Issues used in Ireland since Its Independence in 1922. Charles Wolf of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., a 1953 Notre Dame alumnus, donated the collection. 
The collection includes over­prints, commemoratives, book­lets, first-day envelopes and a complete set of the special St. Patrick's Day postcards issued by tho Irish government. In ad­dition, there are two seven­teenth-century letters exhibit­Ing postal marks and illegal stamps used by the Irish politi­cal organization Sinn Fein be­tween 1907 and 1922. 
The collection will be added to the Irish studies resources in the University Libraries and available for consultation in the Rare Book room of the Department of Special Collections In the Hesburgh Library. 
Charges 
continued from page 1 
dependent investigation into the Burtchaell case. He stressed that any investigation would have to be done by a group not associated with the University or the Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
"We need to know who knew what and when," said the stu­
dent.  "And  why  didn't  the  
University do  anything?"  
He  said  he  believes  the  

University knew about Burtchaell's sexual misconduct for years and did not do any­thing about the allegations. "They didn't want to·hear or know about it," he said. 
The student said he believes many In the University com­munity have known about Burtchaell's involvements with male students since the mid­1970s. 
"There is a symbolic insensi­tivity to gay issues on campus," the student said. "The University turns a deaf ear until forced to do otherwise." 
He said he believes the University did not act in the best interest of the students at Notre Dame. The student said he believes the University al­lowed Burtchaell to continue counseling and teaching young 
The Observer 
men despite allegations of wrongdoings. 
The student said he is con­cerned because he believes that the matter would have been dealt with immediately if it had been a woman involved sexually with a priest. The priest would not be allowed to live with and counsel women, said the student. "It would have been dealt with differently." 
Despite all that has happened the student believes that as a counselor Burtchaell did a lot of people a lot of good. "He didn't abuse every person." 
He said he hopes Burtchaell can come through this experi­ence and help an entirely difTer­ent group of people. "It's pos­sible that he could help Catholic gays and be helpful to gays rather than damage them." 
It is more likely, the student said, that Burtchaell will be si­lenced. 
He questions what the Order and the University are going to do to help students now that the case is public. He said he believes that someone should be addressing the concerns stu­dents will have over the Burtchaell case. 
"What's being done to help students on campus understand what happened with Burtchaell?" the student asked. "Something needs to be done." 
page 7 


The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Holiday shopping spree 
Sophomore Joe McManus shops at Venture for some Christmas gifts and decorations as the holiday approaches. 
Campus Ministry ... ...considerations Tell The Leprechaun To Put Down His Fists confidently live in the future for our deepest values. We are worried about our new found wealth, but know it offers great I have a cousin whose family nickname has always been "Mugsy." opportunities. We are maturing. This guy was a wild kid, full of life and full of mischief, always calling attention to himself and to his-behavior. Everybody loved his I suppose that as we mature it is probably too much to ask that energy and everybody, except his parents, loved his sense o take the "fight" out of the Fighting Irish. Too many know and love mischief. He was a fun kid to have around. us by that name. It's what the family calls us. But it might be possible to get that logo leprechaun to at least begin to put down Surprise, surprise, this little kid has eventually grown up. He's his fists. Lots of our new shirts could be printed showing our little married now with children of his own, and a respectable job to boot. green pixie doing what comes most naturally to his traditional It's actually pretty crazy that in the family we still call him "Mugsy." Irish spirit, things like waving at people and shaking hands, or Recently, we have been trying to change our habits, to catch up with helping those in trouble with his mischievous magic. the new reality that Mugsy is nearly 40 years old, and to admit that we should call him Mike. Changing our leprechaun logo can't really help us too much in our search for our deepest common purposes. We will only For many years now, Notre Dame has been called the Home of the mature from honest conversation and humble listening. But if we Fighting Irish. That's our nickname. Across the country, th could get that little guy to change his habitual posture, we might Catholic, immigrant population of America years ago resonated at least put everybody on notice that we are growing up. with the struggles of our little school from Indiana and adopted it as Its own. That's our history. In more recent times, a copyrighted Tom McDermott, C.S.C. cartoon logo has dominated the fronts of our sweatshirts and the sides of our panel trucks. It is the picture of a grumpy leprechaun with his fists up, ready to defend himself against all attackers, FEAST OF THE IMMACUlATE CONCEYI10N smiling at nobody, listening to none, a pugnacious, angry little guy. I'm not sure who resonates with that image, but I hope not too man Sacred Heart Church:of us. Friday, December 6 ­5:00pm -Vigil Mass Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.Maybe we should take a tip from the grounds crew. Have you seen their little gray trucks, lately? They have the required picture of a leprechaun all right, but the little Irish spirit isn't trying to fight with Crypt: anybody. His hands are open, his palms raised up to the sky. I figur Saturday, December 7-!1:30am­that either the guy Is saying his prayers like an energized Fr. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C. Pentecostal, or else he is shrugging his shoulders saying "thos leaves ain't my job, boss." Whichever, it's better than having him ride around all day looking tor a tight. WEEKEND UITJRGIES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH Notre Dame wants to grow up. After years of struggle for respec Saturday, December 7-5:00pm­and security, big bucks are dragging our little school into the fas Fr. Stephen Newton, C.S.C.track. We proclaim ourselves a national, Catholic, research university, and we have many of the resources to make it true. Sunday, December 8-lO:OOam-Presidential colloquies and dorm room bull sessions are searching Fr. Richard Warner, C.S.C. these days for the purpose of all our blessedness. We know we ar -!1:45am­distinctive; we suspect it is because of our faith. We want a bette self-understanding; we seek a better sense of personal and Institutional vision. We want to stop being defensive, and  



Viewpoint 
• 

Page a 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Edhor-ln-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Edhor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Edhor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Edhor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Edhor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Edhor.................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Edhor .......... .Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willen Controller..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Drunken fans' behavior disgusts ND students 
Reader questions coverage of Monk 
Dear Editor: 
Am I right in thinking that the photographic puff-piece on Monk Malloy was penance for The Observer's mildly critical editorial on the Prez the week before? 
Ann Pettifer Class of 1976 Nov. 23, 1991 

The Commons is not to blame for crimes 
RELAX TH/5I,A9101<T­CIJT. rM m­ING7D54Vt: 
YWAUTTl& 
MONtYHf3R& ... 
5UR&, 8lfT YOU GeT YOUR U.N. 7l?AFF!t/! If /Ale JlY3TGO... UH-OH, 
ON£3a!AY... 
Tuesday, December 3, 1991

• 
I IXJN'TBELIEVB IT! 7HAT /JIPN'T IJSf,f)708E30N£WAY! OKAY,wtU 
60 IXJWN TfNTH ... HMM...7HI5 COUWEft TH£3 WRONG lAN£3 ... 010W£3 JUSTG8TON TH£3 8RJI?GI3"? 
\ PAMN! 
'My baby has done started havin' babies ...changed my name from Dad to Grandpa. All I can say is 'What's up?"' 
Overheard on a Transpo 

Neurons exploding? submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter just to inform everyone about an event that we had the pleasure to witness at about 3:15 on the afternoon of the Tennessee game. We were walking across South Quad from Badin laun­dry, and saw two men, who ap­peared to be alumni, standing around the tree by the light post at the northwest comer of Dillon Hall. 
They each had a can of beer in their hand and were yelling and laughing very loudly, obvi­ously drunk, and breaking the Notre Dame alcohol policy about possessing "open intoxi­cants" (shame, shame). At first, we thought it was pretty amusing seeing these two men acting like fools. What came next was not so entertaining. 
One of the men leaned up against the previously men­tioned tree and started laugh­ing even louder. Then he dropped his jeans and boxers and proceeded to defecate up against this tree. The two drunks were now screaming with laughter. We walked over toward the two and the one pulled up his pants and they walked away, still basking in the glory of their great accom­plishment. 
What an honor it was to be able to witness this beautiful display of maturity, and geni­tals. We only wish that we weren't the only ones to have the opportunity to see this hap­pening. We then ran up to the two men and told them how wonderful we thought they were for pooping in front of our 
DOONESBURY 
dorm. They didn't seem to notice. 
This leads to a question that must be asked. "Why did this happen and why was it allowed to happen?" We were the only ones on the quad except for another older couple on the other side. Where were all of the ND Security Officers who are so willing to give parking tickets and take our beer? I know, they were at the football stadium making sure no one was having fun at a tailgater in one of the parking lots. 
The university has people to check your birth certificate be­fore you are allowed to enter the stadium or "The Rock" but there was not one officer in sight. Believe it or not, not ev­eryone within a 100 mile radius of the campus is at the game. Having the campus so deserted is a perfect time for vandals and thieves to do their work. 
We just want to make sure that people are aware of this incident because unfortunately we had to watch it happen and could do nothing about it. There should have been an au­thority in at least the general vicinity to keep something like this from happening in the middle of a beautiful afternoon. 
And to you two idiots, I hope you read this and realize what a couple of pigs you are and to thank you for nearly making me get sick to my stomach. 
JamieTruog Mike Capo Dillon Hall 
Nov. 25, 1991 

Dear Editor: 
The editorial cartoon on Monday, Nov. 25 was an ignorant and unfair attack on The Commons tavern. The establishment had nothing to do with the recent and unfortu­nate occurrences that happened on its property. These incidents could have occurred at Bridgettes, Club 23, or any other bar for that matter. Granted, The Commons is located in a high crime area, but the patron is in the position to take precautions. 
On both occasions, the shooting and the assault, alco­hol was involved. The victims were under the influence of al­cohol, which in turn, impaired their judgment. In light of the recent events, it is time for stu­dents to wake up from the "it could never happen to me" mentality. 
Alcohol, as everyone should know· by now, affects the actions and reasoning of a person. Drinking alcohol to the point of inhibiting a person's reasoning is when trouble can happen regardless of who they are. 
As a bartender, I have the privilege of seeing when my peers are sober and when they are drunk. The bartender is not a baby-sitter, and it is not our job to monitor how much people drink. Of course we can stop serving a person when he or she becomes obviously intoxicated, but a person's condition is often unknown to us. The patron is responsible for his or her actions, and nobody can be held accountable for whatever poor choices that person may make. 
How many more times do students need to be reminded not to walk around the Northeast Neighborhood at night especially when they have been drinking? Do not leave the bars and go out to the parking lots alone. 
Furthermore, keep an eye on intoxicated friends. Do not let them leave alone regardless of their protests. They are drunk and are not thinking straight. An intoxicated individual be-
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
comes an easy and obvious tar­get for crime. 
The Commons does not de­serve the negative stigma of a dangerous place to frequent. Many are quick to mention that The Commons does not have an off-duty policeman at its door. However, these policemen usually monitor the activity inside of the bar, and whatever goes on outside is beyond their control. As I keep stressing, it is the patron who is responsible for his or her safety. 
Please quit The Commons bashing. One is not going to get shot just by going there. The Commons only fault is un­luckiness that unfortunate events have recently occurred on its property. However, events like these can happen anywhere. The Commons cares about its customers, ·but it is up to our customers to look after themselves and to use their common sense. 
Jennifer R. Karaffa Pasquerilla West 
Nov. 25, 1991 

Viewpoint
Tuesday, December 3, 1991 Page9 
LE II ERS TO THE EDITOR 
tion for homosexuals 
Dear Editor: 
I am grateful to Professor Edward Manier (The Observer, Nov. 1) for prompting this ex­tended discussion concerning the efficacy of sexual reorienta­tion Interventions. Let me be­gin by briefly restating my pri­mary thesis: Contrary to what Is typically espoused by the leaders of homophile organiza­tions, there is a plethora of evi­dence which strongly suggests that homosexual orientation is changeable. 
Many homosexuals (viz., many of those properly referred to as 'egodystonic homosexuals' apy, have been recorded by C. 
W. Socarides (Homosexuality Aronson: NY, 1982}. In this work Socarides describes the aforementioned individual as presently leading a "rich and gratifying heterosexual life" (p. 497). 
5) L. J. Hatterer (Changing Homosexuality in the Male: Treatment for Men Troubled by Homosexuality, McGrew­Hill:NY, 1970), states in the preface of his extensive volume on sexual reorientation therapy that "this book is about the way back from male homosexuality, how it can be achieved, and by 
by the American Psychiatric  or otherwise perverse.  \their  counselors.  This  is  these  patients  generally  whom" (vii). Hattere's generally  
Association)  despise  their  Third, there is an important  especially implausible in light of  confirmed these findings.  Most,  careful  research,  well­ 
sexual orientation and deeply  distinction to be made between  the safeguards employed in  but not all, of those achieving  documented follow-up, and  
desire sexual reorientation.  changing one's sexual orienta­ some studies which have been  and maintaining such change  extensive clinical experience  
Perpetuating myths about the  tion and merely changing one's  put  in  place  in  order  to  were highly motivated  to do so.  employing multidimensional  
nature  and stability of ho­ sexual behavior.  Although it  minimize the transmission of  (See  I  Bieber  et  al,  treatments resist summary in  
mosexuality does a great dis­ may be true that we have no di­ such  misinformation.  It  Homosexuality:  A  this context.  I recommend its  
service to these Individuals by  rect and immediate control over  appears  that  only  a  deep  Psychoanalytic Study.  Basic:  study for anyone interested in  
depriving them of the freedom  our sexual orientation, this does  preconceived bias against the  NY, 1962)  the issue of sexual orientation.  
to choose a form of life consis­ not  imply  that  both  possibility  of  homosexual  2)  M.J. MacCulloch and M.P.  I have merely gestured at the  
tent with their deepest desires.  homosexuals and heterosexuals  reorientation could motivate  Feldman  (Homosexual  tip of an iceberg of outcome  
Rather, there ought to  be  have no direct and immediate  such skepticism.  Behavior:  Therapy  and  studies on homosexual orienta­ 
among us (and especially among homophile leaders) a  control over their sexual acts. In a similar vein,  a  Last, the change criteria used and the definitions of  Assessment. Pergamon: Osford, 1967) employed behavioral  tion change. While it is true that, as a whole, the studies  
sense of moral urgency con­cerning the education of homo­sexuals about the profoundly lifo-altering options currently available to them. It is my hope  homosexual might never engage in homosexual activity after reorientation therapy, yet retain her homosexual orientation. It Is important to  homo/heterosexuality employed across studies have not been uniform. What precisely is a "homosexual" and how ought one measure sexual orientation  (specifically, aversive tech­niques approximately 20 ses­sions; 25 minutes per session) rather than psychoanalytic therapy. 72 percent of their  cited are of uneven quality, it is also true that some of these studies were very carefully con­ducted and that even if only a small fraction of those ex-ho­ 
that this brief discussion will • act as a catalyst toward that end. I shall first make explicit some Important preliminary points. First, whether or not the obviously multi-factorial etiologies of homosexuality are predominantly biological or predominantly psychosocial in  note that the primary goal of many psychotherapeutic and spiritually-based interventions involving homosexuals is sexual orientation change, not merely sexual behavioral change. There are at least two reasons for this: 1) because homosexuals themselves often request such fundamental  change? One promising strat­egy for minimizing confusion in this critical area is to gage sexual orientation change by appealing to the seven-point Kinsey Scale on which a score of zero indicates exclusive heterosexuality (both In behav­ior and fantasy) and a score of six indicates exclusive homo­ subjects had Kinsey Scale rating of 5 or 6. Eleven of the 13 pre­treatment Kinsey 5s and 6s under thirty years of age received post-treatment Kinsey ratings of 0 or 1. Mean length of follow up was 20 months. Post-treatment information was gathered both by Interview and by administering an  mosexuals claiming to have been reoriented actually are now heterosexual in orienta­tion, the fact remains that the possibility of homosexual re­orientation Is real. This conclusion is all the more noteworthy because I have briefly chronicled only interventions which are secular  --,  
nature is not immediately rele­ change, and 2) because many  sexuality.  attitude  scale  in  order  to  in orientation.  I have, thus far,  
vant to the topic of sexual ori­ mental health professionals and  The  researcher  initially  minimize the transmission of  neglected to mention purely  
entation change. _ We know, for example, both that many "organic" and many "functional" psychiatric disor­ders can respond favorably both  religiously oriented counselors feel that the psychic structure of homosexuals is fundamentally disordered and that the persistence of this  locates the subject in the appropriate place on the Scale prior to the commencement of reorientation therapy. After reorientation therapy termina­ false self reports. Again, those who were most highly motivated changed most. It is important to note that the change rate for those over  non-secular (or mixed) approaches to effecting sexual reorientation (e.g. those approaches employed by (i) New Creation Ministries, (ii)  
to psychological and to physical  disorder precludes the possibil­ tion the subject is relocated on  thirty years of age was not as  Exodus  International,  (iii)  
treatment modalities.  There is  ity of one's attaining optimal  the Kinsey Scale.  Of course,  impressive as for those under  Homosexuals Anonymous, etc.)  
no prima facie reason to think that homosexuality is an  human fulfillment. Fourth, because we have nei­ under optimal conditions, the subject is then followed up and  thirty. Thus, the college-aged homosexual who desired  Given that the University of Notre Dame is a Catholic  
exception in this regard. Second, It ought to be obvious that the (im)possibility of sexual orientation change Itself is irrelevant to the moral question concerning homosexual acts,  ther direct nor exhaustive ac­cess either to another person's mental states or to another person's behavior outside the narrow confines of the thera­peutic situation, we must rely  reassessed at least five years after the termination of therapy. What follows is a short list of researchers whose investiga­tions are relevant to our pre­sent concerns.  reorientation has reason for ,a relatively greater measure of optimism than his homosexual elders. 3) The five-year success rate for helping dissatisfied homo­ University, such non-secular approaches ought to be of spe­cial interest. It has always been puzzling to me why our University's Department of Psychology (as far as I know)  
and this in two ways. First, even if homosexual orientation were not changeable, many  largely on self-reports and the reports of others for our in­formation regarding sexual  1) The classic (1962) study conducted by I. Bieber and his colleagues in the Society of  sexuals establish heterosexual lifestyles "in Masters and Johnson's (1979) study (as re- has neither sponsored a group of homosexuals interested in either behavioral or sexual ori­ 
would continue to believe that homosexual acts are still im­ orientation change. Many who reject the mere possibility of ef­ Medical Psychoanalysis em­ployed 72 subjects who were  . ported in M.F. Schwartz and W.H. Masters in "The Masters  entation change nor has it or­ganized specific training oppor­ 
moral.  fecting  sexual  orientation  reported as  having had only  and Johnson treatment pro­ tunities for burgeoning psy­ 
This is, of course, a consistent position. We would (and, I  change have been known to question the veracity of those  homosexual contacts (and were, thus, classified by Bieber as  gram for dissatisfied homosex­ual men",. American Journal of  chologists interested in learning about sexual reorientation  
think,  should)  still  hold  who claim to have undergone  being "homosexual") and 30  Psychiatry 141:2, Feb. 1984)  therapy.  
pedophiles,  for  example,  such a radical change.  subjects underwent psychoana­ using short-term (2 week) in­ Given  the  explicit  
morally responsible for sexual  Although  incentives  for  lytically oriented psychotherapy  tensive homosexual reorienta­ commitment to Christian values  
contact with children even If we  prevarication in this context  for  at  least  150 ·hours.  tion  therapy  exceeded  50  which is  a  hallmark of this  
were convinced that the sexual orientation of pedophiles is fixed. Second, the fact that  abound, it is quite implausible, given the scope and depth of the evidence, to think that all or  Approximately 20 percent of the homosexuals and 50 percent of the bisexuals became  percent. 4) Numerous case studies, including a moving interview  University, such a training em­phasis both should be quite de­sirable and would be quite ap­ 
homosexual  orientation  is  even the vast majority of the  what  Bieber describes  as  with a 43 year-old male ex-ho­ propriate.  
changeable Implies nothing, by  many apparently sincere ex­ "exclusively  heterosexual"  mosexual seven years after the  A.A. Howseplan  
itself, about whether or not  homosexuals chronicled in the  during the course of therapy.  successful completion of reori­ Off-Campus  
homosexual acts are immoral  literature are misinforming  Five-year follow up studies of  entation psychoanalytic ther- Nov. 24, 1991  
Wrestling with DART 'monster' frustrates student  
Dear Editor:  the registrar's office who in­ heard the lovely jingle and the  Further attempts were futile.  
It Is that time of the year  formed me I could register by  schizophrenic DART speaking  It now seems like I will have to  
when we all must register, and after a few years of wrestling  long-distance. "What! Pay for a long distance call from Los  with different computer synthesized male voices  fill In the dots on a form to up my credit total by 10.8, and  
with the Dastardly Alien Robot  Angeles to register?"  alternating words.  then  run  around  getting  
Telephone Thingy, I was hoping  Then I was informed that I  After Inputting my SSN, secret  signatures  from  everyone,  
for a trouble free registration. I cannot remember registra­ could call after 7:00 p.m. on any day after my appointment.  agent number, and the semester code, I made my only choice, a  including the janitor. Why can't I just do this in the  
tion before DART, and neither can others who've been around  Back in school discovered I had  today I lost the  research and dissertation option. No problem so far. It  first place? But then I would be deprived of that great post  
here as long and longer than I,  number,  so  a  trip  to  my  duly told me that the course  football season Notre Dame  
implying that It must have been  department office was in order.  was variable credit and to input  sport-wrestling with the DART  
a relatively painless, forgettable  The number was easy to re­ a number between 1-10.  Oops!  monster,  and  registration  
experience. But not any longer.  member, the last 3 digits were a  I needed to register for 12, but  experiences would be totally  
This year's adventure started  famous secret agent's code!  So  feeling adventurous I entered  forgettable like in the old days.  
when I was assigned a time on  this evening I decided to tackle  12#.  Then it came back and  Ullck Stafford  
a day when I would be out of  the beast and after several false  told me I was registered for 1.2  O'Hara Grace Townhouses  
town for a conference.  I called  starts due to busy lines I finally  credits!  Nov. 25, 1991  


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Accent 
page 10 Tuesday, December 3, 1991 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 

Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The idea to renovate the Church of Loretto at Saint Mary's has been around for at least eight years, but it was not until last September that a committee was formed to begin developing the plans. 
The plan was first unveiled following the closing of the Sesquicentennial celebration of 
1he Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
Attempting to correct the Church's acoustical problems and to redesign the church to reflect the contemporary understanding of the liturgy was a major concern of the ren­ovation committee, according to 
·Mary Turgi, chairperson of the renovation committee. 
Turgi claimed that the Church of Loretto has a "theatrical design," and does not reflect the new understanding of liturgy as "gathering around a table and sharing." 
Turgi also said that the Church has many physical problems also. "It is not easy to hear, see, walk around, or minister (in the church)." 
The plans, developed by architect Evans Woollen, include a changed floor plan that attempts to "simplify space, brighten up space, and introduce as much natural light as possible," according to Turgi. 
The redesign of the floor plan conforms to the suggestions in the document Environment and Art in Catholic Worship, and 
,­
also attempts to improve some of the physical aspects of the church. 
These changes will include the removal of the mosaics 15 ft. up, the elimination of the niches, the statues within them, the pews, balconies, and the front doors. The new design includes a circular pattern of chairs and columns. The question of whether to remove the painted glass windows has not yet been decided. 
The spending of $1.5 million from the Sisters of the Holy Cross Common Fund has stirred up many feelings within the Saint Mary's community. 
Many consider the renovation to be a destruction, but as Veroniqe Wiedower, a liturgist and member of the renovation committee stated at an open forum for students, "It's not a destruction, it is the best of many things." 
Many students, faculty, and sisters expressed their feelings regarding the renovation at the open forum for students con­cerning the renovation. The only positive comments made about the renovation came from members of the committee. 
One of the students stated that while she realizes that the church is the property of the sisters, and student opinion has little to do with whether or not the renovation will take place, she feels that the opinion of the sisters of the congregation should be taken into account. 
"I don't understand why there couldn't be a vote among the members of the congregation to see if in general they support the changes of not. If they support the change, I feel there is. little we can say about it." 
Turgi responded that that is not the way the congregation runs. "The General Council has already approved the reno­vation, and it will take place." 
Many still believe there is hope that the committee of General Council will change their minds. 
"We are still praying that the Holy Spirit will change their "All I know is what I hear around the house, and I think most of us feel the same-we don't want it." 
"Some people have the opinion that all the sisters are

Unwelcome change in favor of renovation, but that is simply not true," said a sister who wishes to remain anonymous. "I am not being critical of the governing body of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, these are just personal opinions of myself, and other sisters, and 
Church of Loretto renovations stir 
I feel I am entitled to those while still remaining loyal to the

controversy at Saint Mary's 
order," said Sister "Mary." 
The document that the church 
is being renovated to represent 
is a result of the new liturgical 
standards established by 
Vatican II. 
One sister noted at the forum ·that conforming to these norms 
is not a requirement for 
churches built before Vatican 
11-of which the Church of 
Loretto was. 
One of the things that Environment and Art in Catholic Worship calls for is the elimination of double symbols. Turgi stated that that is one of the many things the Church of Loretto contains too many of. "Just look at the number of symbols of Mary in the church," said Turgi. 
"I think the statues and 
symbols help to reflect and 
pray," commented Sister 
"Elizabeth." 
Sister "Mary" stated that "the church .is the soul of the community. It was built with much sacrifice and thought, it's easy to tear things down, but it's not so easy to build them up." 
"All the sisters have deep feelings about the Church," said Sister "Mary." "All the traditions of our community and life are connected with the 


stated Moore. 
"I would like to ask the Sisters to voice their opinion so that the Saint Mary's community will know where they stand... there might be a strong force that can be formed and a few changes might be able to be made." 
As another sister commented, church." 
The sisters still continue to pray and hope that the change will not occur. "The sisters here won't give up praying until the last straw," said Sister "Mary." 
Wiedower stated that all the 
claims being made were "emotional claims," and we need to look at the church as a building and not a community. 
For those that see the church simply as a building, the renovations are a "destruction of art," according to a professor of art at Indiana University at South Bend in a statement read at the open forum. For those who connect the church with community, the "church is precious," according to Sister "Mary." 
"We haven't given up pleading with the dear Lord to do something to save our church," said Sister "Elizabeth." 
The renovations,which it is believed will take six to eight months to complete, were originally slated to begin in November. However final plans for when the renovations will begin have still not been determined. Many decisions, like whether or not to remove the painted glass, still remain undecided. 
The consensus is that if people want to halt the changes, they must act quickly. 
"You (the Saint Mary's community) are the ones that can do the most good," stated Sister "Elizabeth." "We'll do the praying behind it." 


Holy Cross. "The principle thing is prayer." 
Jennifer Moore, Campus Ministry representative for student government and organizer of the open forum stressed that people must work quickly if they want things changed. 
time for who want to change of sway the minds of those on the renovation committee." 
"After talking with a few sisters of the Holy Cross, I have realized how much it's (the plans for renovation) hurting them to have such a drastic 
Tuesday, December 3, 1991 The Observer 
Red-hot Chicago Bulls streaking through NBA 

.. 
AP Photo Chicago's Michael Jordan was a major contributor to the Bull's recent success. The guard, shown here against the Mavericks, worked his magic during the 6-0 road trip. 
West Coast trip brings win total to 12 
CHICAGO (AP) -The numbers, a 12-game winning streak and a 6-0 road trip on the West Coast, say it all: Right now, the NBA champion Chicago Bulls are playing better basketball than anyone else. 
"I do think we have that feel­ing that we can beat anybody we play," Michael Jordan said Monday at practice. "Some of the guys -B.J. Armstrong, Stacey King, Will Perdue ­have stepped up and con­tributed. It's made us a very potent basketball team right now." ' 
Coach Phil Jackson and play­ers say that kind of fearlessness is their prime strength. 
"We are playing with great ~nfidence," Jackson said. "We have the ability to come out on the floor and figure out things on our feet, how to solve prob­lems defensively and offen­sively." 
The Bulls (13-2) will break two club records if they defeat the Cleveland Cavaliers on Wednesday at Chicago Stadium. Beating Cleveland would give the Bulls their 13th straight victory and best start of a sea­son. 
Consistent offense has given the Bulls the best record in the NBA. 
The team has a composite shooting average of just over .500, best in the league. On the road trip, Jordan averaged 32.6 points and six assists; Scottie Pippen averaged 23.3 points, shot 53.6 percent and stole the ball 1.8 times per game. 
Still, the Bulls show room for improvement. Jackson said the team needs to beef up its defense down the center and needs an accurate 3-point shooter to spread out the op­position. 
"We expect the other teams in the league to pick it up as the season goes on, so we have to find ways to start shooting bet­ter than they are," Jackson said. 
"We know there's room for improvement. Down the line is when we'll reach our peak, hopefully for the finals," said Horace Grant, who averaged 
16.6 points and 9.5 rebounds on the two-week road trip. 
The Bulls also know their status as champions is both a blessing and a curse. Struggling to live up to the title can be an inspiration, but this season Chicago is the target for opposing teams who want to knock otT the best. 
"We know teams are going to come in with sold-out arenas and play exceptionally well against us," Jordan said. "But pride is the main thing we have. It's been a factor all along." 
page 11 
. 

Pittsburgh mourns loss of Johnson 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP) -About 1,200 friends, relatives and former players paid tribute to Pittsburgh Penguins coach Bob Johnson at his funeral Monday, praising him as someone who knew how "to make you better t~an you are." 
Penguins players and administrators stretched out a road trip to Edmonton to attend services at the First Presbyterian Church a chilly, overcast day. Others came from Johnson's other stopovers as a coach ­Calgary, Madison, Wis., and here-to pay their respects. 
Johnson, 60, who led the Penguins to the Stanley Cup last season, died of brain cancer last Tuesday. 
"Sixty years was not long enough -but he was able to achieve every goal he set," son-in-law Tim McConnell told mourners. 
He was remembered as a frustrated baseball pitcher who always believed he could play in the majors. 
"He died thinking he could have made it to the big leagues as a pitcher," McConnell said. McConn e II told the Penguin players, "No matter how much you loved him, he loved you much more." 
The Observer accepts classllleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. a1 the Notre Oamo oHice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at tho Saint Mary's oHice, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for nexl-day cfassHieds Is 3p.m. All claaslfleds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. Tho charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 
HOUSEMATE WANTED: Share 2-H E L PII need graduation tickets ONE MORE TRY I 1?...1? ...1?... !? ...1?, .. 1?...1?
NOTICES 
BR home with Grad Male. Avail Jan for my family in Dallas, TX. Call JJ WASH. D.C. CLUB X-MAS BUS! GRATEFUL HEADS­1, 1992. FFI: Jeff 288-3878. X48151 Sign-up Weds. Dec. 4, 7-9p.m. I NEED A BOOTLEG THAT Basement of Lafortune HAS A GOOD VERSION TYPING AVAILABLE $55 1way $110 rt OF "THEY LOVE EACH OTHER" 287·4082 We need at least 40 people. ON IT...
L...___FO_R_R_E_N_T____.I L-1_P_E_R_S_O_N_A_L____. 
Call271-1211 and ask for 
JOE. ALTERATIONS AND BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Monica Eigelberger is a ho. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER I only need to borrow it DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL 219-291-7153 for two hours I 259-8684. CHRISTMAS OPEN HOUSE It would be GRATELY 
stronger than burt appreciatedlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll BEDROOM IN A HOME $200/MO. !?..•1? .••1? .. .1? •..1? ...1? •..I WORD PROCESSING USE OF ALL UTILITIES, MON DAY thru friday 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW/

256-6657 LAUNDRY. ETC. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Nhet ZAHM: ALWAYS LOSERS. 
DAYTONA BEACH ....'104
CALL PAUL 232-2794. Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
S and 7 NIGHTS 

for a quote 9:30-6:00, Kelley, 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND -'128 
5 AND 1 NIGHTS

Fast, Professional Typing 289-1993. Office near campus. You better watch your back 2n-7406 Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt. LIFE HAS NO MEANING AND because Amanda is on the loose 
STEAMBOAT .... 1122 
2, 5 AND 1 NIGHTS 

Furnished. $200. !Mon. DEATH EVEN LESS, AS THE with Cyn's silver zipol We wouldn't 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ·-'122 
7 NIGHTS

$150. Dept. Call2n-8866 ADOPTION: Proud parents of ABSURDITY IS EVER-PRESENT. want you to end up like the poor 
PORTRAITS Tues/Sat. 10am15pm. adopted toddler eager to find labrador from Princeton. But 
FORT LAUDeRDALE ....'fJ6 
7 NIGHTS

GREAT X-MAS PRESENTS FOR newborn to join our family. Our THE WHITE VOID ENVELOPS seriously, don't worry because she 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND .... 1ff9
FAMILY/FRIENDS! warm and stable home offers OUR PITIFUL AND SHORT couldn't be bothered with the 
5 AND 1 NIGHTS 

PENCIL PORTRAITS FROM security, lots of adoring relatives EXISTENCES. paperwork to get you past seaJrity 
MUSTANG ISLAND I ....'128
FOR SALE
PHOTOGRAPH $30 ·and a life full of love. Please call in your porcelain vase. 
PORT ARANSAS CALL KATIE 284-4457 Barb and Dave collect 513-751-ENJOY, All YOU MEANINGLESS 
5 AND 1 NIGHTS 
nth Annual CelebrationI 

1990 INFINfTI M30 SPORTS 70n. ONESI love, Your neighbors! 
COUPE. BURGUNDY WiGRAY "Daft" 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS
''CHRISTMAS BREAK BUS" LEATHER. LOADED p.s. Nice Christmas tree For anyone going to Long Island, WiEVERYTHING. 21,000 MILES. lando lives, but he is stuck in p.s.s. Hope you find your lights 
1·800·321·5911 


~
NYC, or NJI Safe travel, VCR, and $18,500 277-3784. chicago! CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP ~ 
$110 round trip. Sign up in MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30 P.M. ~..........-~ lafortune(O'Hara room) on WED. FOR INFO: CALL 272-6890 12/4, 8-10PMII CHEAP! FBVU.S. SEIZED SPRING BREAK '92-YOU'VE 
89 MERCEDES $200, ONLY GOT ONE WEEK TO LIVE ACNE
-
86 vw $50 SO DON'T BLOW IT II DO IT IN 00 THE COPY SHOP 00 87 MERCEDES $100, JAMAICAICANCUN STARTING AT Lafortune Student Center
LOST/FOUND A NASTY FOUR 
65 MUSTANG $50. A LOW $4591 ORGANIZE GROUP Copies as low as 3¢ in volume! Choose from thousands starting AND TRAVEL FREE 1-800-426­
LEITER WORD 
LOST: A black men's overcoat at $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording n101 the Farley/Fisher/Carroll Formal(at Reveals Details 801-379-2929 SPRING BREAK IN CANCUNI fT If you had started the K of C coat check) I TOOK THE Copyright WILL BE HERE BEFORE YOU WRONG ONE! #IN11KJC. "PREGNANT? Young, financially KNOW ITI OUTGOING CAMPUS on clear Care Acne MIKE X1042 secure, Indiana couple wishing to REPRESENTATIVE WANTED BY 
adopt. We can offer your child all THE NATIONS LARGEST AND Treatment 30 days 
ann klein our love. devotion, and guidance MOST SUCCESSFUL SPRING LOST -THICK SILVER CHAIN with rust suede jacket sm with a lifetime of opportunities, BREAK TOUR OPERATOR. ago, you would be BLACK AND SILVER AHNK at $40/bst offr including college and travel RECEIVE A FREE TRIP AND BRIDGET'S SAT NOV 23. & othr designr dothes experinces, strong church up-CASH FOR PROMOTING OUR clear of Acne today 
Christmas gift from 287-5926 bringing, and a dose knit extended TRIPS TO YOUR FRIENDS AND parents-serious sentimental value. family. We enjoy camping, fishing, CLASSMATES. CALL 1-800-395-For free samples, Call J-P. 271-0742 No questions 
swimming, biking, cookouts, all 4896 
asked information on how
TICKETS kinds of sports, family visits and wish to share all this and morel 
Clear Care's topical 
Medical, legal, counseling expenses THE COUNTRY HARVESTERWANTED paid-living assistance. Please call CHRISTMAS OPEN HOUSE medications work, SUGUR BOWL tix for SALE COLLECT: 0-317-255-5916, 
$425 

272-7034after5 or in holiday Extension 576 and let us help each Monday thru Friday $40,000/yrl READ BOOKS and TV other.· Dec. 2-6, 11am-5pm Scripts. Fill our simple Sat. Dec. 7, 11am-4pm Call our Skin Care "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, . relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Chp. Rndtrp. male dx. for sale, SUGAR BOWL PACKAGE 4 DAYS Holiday refreshments served Information Line Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 ND to Los Ang., 12/20 to 1/13; 3 NIGHTS SUPERDOME HYATI + while you browse. Hour Recording 801-379-2925 X1558 4 TICKETS TO GAME. $1200 Lower Level Lafortune (800) 435-3533 
Copyright "IN11 KEB. CAll ANDY 407-894-7489. 



page 12 
Men hoping to reverse current losing trend vs IU 
Special to the Observer 
The Irish men's basketball 
squad heads to Bloomington, 
Ind., where new Notre Dame 
head coach John MacLeod 
will get his first opportunity to 
go against Indiana coaching 
legend Bobby Knight. 
Indiana comes into the 
game ranked ninth, after 
being ranked as high as 
second in the preseason polls. 
An 87-72 loss to UClA in the 
Hall of Fame Classic dropped 
the Hoosiers. They responded 
by easily disposing of Butler 
last Saturday, 98-73, after 
leading by more than 40 
points in the first half. 
The Hoosiers are strong at every position, led by junior forward Calbert Cheaney. Damon Bailey holds down one of the guard spots, while all­Big 10 performer Eric Anderson provides some bulk inside. Indiana will have added depth on the interior in freshman Alan Henderson, one of the most highly recruited prep players in the country last year. 
In the last meeting, the Irish nearly upset Indiana before falling 70-67. Cheaney led the Hoosiers with 15 points, while Irish guard Daimon Sweet led all scorers with 19. 
Bloomington's Assembly Hall hasn't been kind to the Irish in the past. The last time Notre Dame won at Indiana was in the 1973-74 season when the Irish won 73-67. 
Notre Dame is looking to bounce back from a season­opening 67-60 loss to Butler. Sweet led the Irish with 23 points in that contest, while LaPhonso Ellis grabbed 12 boards, tops for the game. 

McWilliams' steps down 
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) -David McWilliams, who coached Texas to the Cotton Bowl last season, resigned from his dream job Monday after his third losing season in five years. 
The Longhorns, Southwest Conference champions in 1990, fmished 5-6 this year after los­ing to Texas A&M 31-14 on Thanksgiving Day. 
McWilliams, captain of the Longhorns' 1963 national championship team and an as­sistant coach from 1970-85, said at a news conference he had asked to be reassigned. McWilliams just ended the sec­ond year of a five-year contract worth $1 million. 
"It's been fun," McWilliams· 
said after stepping down with a 
31-26 regular season record 
and 1-1 bowl record, including 
~9~g-lol~~sB~~riami in the 
The 49-year-old McWilliams 
would not specify whether he 
was forced to resign, but 
thanked school officials for 
giving him a chance. 
"They've always given me 
100 percent support and they 
have given me every opportu~ 
nity to try to be successful," 
McWilliams said. "This cer­
tainly has been a tough deci­
sion. And at this time, I would 
really rather not entertain any 
fu~~~a;e~~hi:·;ic director DeLoss Dodds said a search committee would be appointed 
and the new coach would need 
Division I-A experience. 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Last season, the Notre Dame 
women's basketball team 
opened with a 1-3 record before 
rolling ofT 15 straight wins. 
After a 80-66 loss to 17th­ranked Purdue on Sunday, the Irish find themselves in the same position as last year, losers of three of their first four games. But that's where the comparison ends. 
In 1990, Notre Dame's first four games included Indiana, UClA and Stanford. This year, the Irish met the third-ranked team in the country (Penn State), the seventh-ranked team (Stanford), and after defeating Marquette 83-68 last Wednesday, they went up against number seventeen (Purdue). 
All of whit:h gives Notre Dame hope that it can build off its brutal opening schedule. 

"We all realize that something has to be done," said sophomore Sherri Orlosky. "We have a lot to work on, but if we focus on one game at a time, we have a good chance at another streak." 
The Irish broke into the win column against the Warriors, as six players scored in double figures for Notre Dame. Still, it to'ok a 14-3 run midway through the second half for the Irish to pull away from a stub­born Marquette squad that was held 34 points below its season average of 102 points per game. 
"We really worked on transi­tion defense," said Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw. "It was one of the best defensive games we've had. Coquese (Washington) in that stretch got some key steals and took over the game." 
Seniors Margaret Nowlin (17 points, eight rebounds) and Comalita Haysbert (16 points, 12 rebounds) provided a one­two punch inside for the Irish. Washington added 11 points, eight assists and six steals. Kris Maskala led the Warriors with 15 points. 
Notre Dame was able to overcome a poor shooting per­formance (39 percent) against Marquette, but against Purdue on Sunday, it was a major factor in its 80-66 loss. The Irish shot 42 percent for the game-and just 39 percent in the second half as they tried to come back from a 37-31 halftime deficit-while the Boilermakers hit 51 percent of their shots, and 54 percent in the second half. 
Notre Dame grabbed an early three-point lead on Purdue, but the Boilermakers went on a 15­2 run to take a 30-18 advantage with 3:23 left in the first half. But the Irish went on a 9-1 run of their own just before the half to close within four, 31-27. 
In the second half, Notre Dame cut the lead to four points 

Back from a knee injury, junior Coquese Washington, shown here against Stanford, turned in a strong 
rla~a.-in-,•:....;.4T1"""-3;;..7-.;•:...o;;.;n~a~M;.;i~ch:;,e;;.;l;.;le;:--::--:---::-----:~-:-~-~------------~ ~~~-~....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,_,_

Come Christmas Shopping In Downtown CHICAGO 

When: Sunday, Dec. 8th 
Tix: On sale Monday, Dec. 2nd-Friday, Dec. 6th in the Junior Class Office $61 person -covers transportation 
Bus: 

performance against Purdue this weekend. 
If there's apain in 
&•aAmerican Heart 

vour chest, be apain 
V Associationin the neck. WE'RE FIGHTI~ FOR Complain to adoctor. YCIJRLIFE 
COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
!:J!fX/Il!V71l/VJ:J $(Jil(]J(Yk$ 
*1, 2, and 3 bedrbom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully located on \he St. Joseph River ~ 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
-
1671 Riverside Drive ­
233-2212 

WE HAVE IT ALL ANGELS* AMY* ATTIC DOLLS* BEARS * BUNNIES * BASKETS BAGS • BLANKETS * CARDS CANDLES * CHRISTl CALLIGRAPHY* COFFEES COCOAS * CHRISTMAS NOTES COMPUTER PAPER *COLORING BOOKS* CRAYONS *DRIED FLOWERS* EGGNOG TAFFY* FARSIDE CARDS * BOOKS* MUGS * GREAT GIFTS* GOURMET* HEAVENLY HANDCRAFTS *INCENSE IRISH SWEATSHIRTS * JAX JOLLY GOOD TYME KEEPSAKES KALEIDOSCOPES * LOTIONS * LAMBS * LICORICE MISTLETOE * MUGS * NOTE CARDS NUTS * NECKLACES OHI ORNAMENTS PAULA * PILLOWS * PHOTO ALBUMS * POT POURRI * QUAINT MINI QUILTS* RED RIBBONS* ROSE * SACHETS SHAMPOOS * SOAPS STOCKING STUFFERS SECRET SANTA TOYS* TINS 10 CENT CANDY* TRAIL MIXES UPS* UPS*UPS VICTORIAN DOLLS* VIMC WREATHS 
XTRA NEAT STUFF 
ZIP CODES AND ZONES FOR UPS I 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LAFORTUNE LOWER LEVEL 
M-F 12-5 SAT 11-2 

~~~52~;a52!~~;2~~;2~~Z!;;tj~;2:~~~5:f:l:~d!a:l~d!:l:l~&!!:1dts;=il~ .._____2_39-_67_1_4_____. 
Tuesday, December 3, 1991 
Clint 
continued from page 16 
everybody." 
Still, when: the man called "Cosmic" is concerned, the return was just business as usual. 
"When you get it, just go straight up ahead," said Johnson. "That was the thing the coaches expected of me." 
-~ 

Johnson was well aware of the coaches' expectations, as 
Holtz  approached  him  in  
midweek and asked him  to  
handle the kick returns.  

"I worked my way into [the kick return job]," said Johnson. "I did a little time on the scout squad and started doing the drills on Thursday. I decided that things were going to come around-that I wasn't going to let him down a second time." 
SPORlSBRIEFS 
•Sports 
briefs are accepted in writing every day except Saturday until 5 p.m. at The Observer office on the third noor of LaFortune. Please submit a short brief, your legal name, and the date the brief Is to be run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submissions. 

•Sugar 
Bowl tickets will be on sale Thursday, Nov. 21 through Dec. 4, from 8:30 to 5. Tickets will be $40 apiece and each Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student may present 4 !D's. All tickets will be Issued at the ticket office on the 2nd noor of the ACC upoo payment. 

•Students 
and staff interested in having an indoor climbing wall on campus should come to a brief meeting on Thursday night at 6:00p.m. in Rockne 218. It is important that groups and Individuals wanting a wall be represented at this information meeting since the amount of interest is being assessed. Questions, call Recsports at 239-6690 and ask for Sally. 

•Attention 
all rowing club members: A brief and informative meeting will be scheduled for this Thursday. Year end activities will be discussed and sweatslstevensens orders will be confirmed. Orders will be processed on Friday. Erg-a-thon money should be brought to the meeting or given to Heidi in room 318 Farley. Reminder, that individual clothing orders will not be processed If erg donations are not in by Friday. 


--~---~­
----~-------~--­
The Observer page 13 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey Tackles Bryant Young and Troy Ridgely brought the Rainbow offense to its knees with this crushing tackle. 
Hawaii 
continued from page 16 
death blow. 

Johnson took Elam's kickoff, shot through the parting waves of Rainbow defenders and raced 93 yards for a touch­down. 
Hawaii, led alternately by quarterbacks Jasper and Michael Carter, racked up 22 points in the final quarter to make the game a close affair. 
Behind 48-42 with 1:38 left to play, the Rainbows saw their final flicker of hope extin­guished when Elam's onside kick rolled directly into the 
•••••••••••••••••••••••..waiting arms of Tony Brooks. 
"Tonight we had a chance to
Indiana Opera North Presents: 
pull it out," said Hawaii head coach Bob Wagner. "We just
AMAHL AND THE NIGHT VISITORS 
A Christmas Story About Three Wise Men & A Crippled Boy 
•December 
6th & 7th at the Bendix Theatre in South Bend's Century Center 

•December 
8th in the Beickman P.A.C. of Concord High School in Elktiart. 

•All 
presentations will begin at 7:30pm. Tickets can be purchased at the Century Center Box Office in Southbend (284-9111 ), at Templin's in Elkhart (293-0345) or at the door. 


Price: $10 for adults, $5 for students $7.50 for senior citizens and groups of 15 or more. 
~:t-~!!.....JIQ!"" ~:w.... ~:w.... ~:t-~:w.... • • 
~~ ..ii»~'""Y:-~~~~~~ 
Christmas 
at the 

Notre Dame Golf Shop 
Located "On the Curve" In the Rockne Memorial 
GREAT GIFr IDEAS FROM THE TOP NAMES IN GOLF 
SHffiTS SWEATERS JACKETS UMBRELLAS CAPS BALLS Featuring Notre Dame logos 
Students & Staff a 10% discount through December 20 
Holiday Hours 
Monday -Friday 9:00am -4:00pm 

. . . . . . . . 
. ~~·~~· 
.~~~~~.. ... ... ... .. .. ... .
. 
dug ourselves too big a hole. 
"What we tried to preach and coach is never quitting, hanging in there, playing hard. I told the guys to be very proud of their effort. At the same time, we played to win and don't take consolation in coming close." 
Irish senior defensive tackle Troy Ridgely was disgruntled after Notre Dame's defensive performance. 
"I thought we played pa­thetic," said Ridgely. "If this was the University of Florida, they'd have beaten us by 60. They did basically the same things in the second half. We just didn't play well--:-again." 
And what did Ridgely see as the bright spot for the defense? 
"They didn't score 49." 
Holtz, meanwhile, reflected on his team's performance in the wake of two weeks of in­tense defensive drills. 
"For 20 minutes we were sharp, alert and doing what we needed to be," said Holtz. "And then we started falling soft on the fullback. Then we got back to where nobody executed. 
"We played without Demetrius DuBose, Pete Bereich, Anthony Peterson, Germaine Holden, Eric Jones and Greg Davis-those are all starters on defense. For 20 minutes our kids hung in there, but the thing broke down." 
Despite the poor showing by his defense, Holtz felt that the "defensive attitude" which he is trying to Instill in the Irish has begun to take hold. 
"I saw [the defensive attitude] a little bit earlier," said Holtz, wearied from the harrowing escape from Hawaii. "But I didn't see it after the first 20 minutes. I'm talking about making a play, pressing people 
r--------=~-~=--------------_,and attacking people. 
"The one time they ran a
there now, Mo! 
itch, the safety £LeShane addler] just came up and the guy. That was en­ouraging, but we didn't do it 
arly enough." 
Volley 
continued from page 16 
It took only three games for the Irish to knock off Texas­Arlington in the weekend's sec­ond match. Peters was the leader once again with 11 kills and seven digs as Notre Dame blew past the Mavericks, 15-1,
-----------------------...115-7 and 15-11. Peters has 
Some employers promise you the world. We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385. 
reached double figures in digs 17 times this season, including six matches with 20 or more, and is just two digs away from Zanette Bennett's single-season mark of 363, set in 1987. 
Jessica Fiebelkorn notched eight kills to go along with 10 digs and four blocks and Chris Choquette added nine kills in the victory. Whitefield led the way again for Texas-Arlington with 11 kills and 14 digs. 
Next up for the volleyball 
team  Is  the  National  
Invitational  Volleyball  
Championship  beginning  

Thursday at Wright State University. The Irish earned an automatic bid to the NIVC by winning last month's Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament with wins over Butler and Loyola. 
As the top seed in one of the four pools, the Irish have the inside track to Saturday's championship round. They will have some stiff competition on the way, however, as they will have to get by West Virginia, Arkansas State, Drexel and California to reach Saturday's final four. 

----~-~------------------­
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, December 3, 1991 
Maine takes two from ND hockey; Piccanato, Zadra star 
WE _BAVEN'7 FORG077EN BAVEYOU? 
A Yes, WVFI is still trying to go F .M. W but now we need your help. If you 
~/ ~ I If . ...J • • 
.~re havtng trouble reachtng us from 
your hall, let us now by calling the FRED line --283--FRED. (leave your hall and floor number --you too, St. Mary's.) 


By ANTHONY KING put up a valiant fight, but they 
Assistant Sports Editor could not pull off the upset of top ranked Maine this past weekend. The Notre Dame hockey team The Irish dropped two games 

'&<._,_.
. ~<· . ­

The Observer/Jake-Peters Notre Dame played two tough games over the weekend, but could not beat too-ranked Maine. 
to the Black Bears, lowering their record to 5-6 for the year. 
Friday night's game took place in Portland, Maine, where the Bears outshot the Irish 32­10 and scored three goals in the third period to cap a 5-1 victory. The Irish were only down 2-0 after two periods, as goalie Carl Piccanato stopped 21 of 23 shots. The score remained 2-0 until the Black Bears netted a short handed goal and a power play goal in the span of two minutes. 
Winger Lou Zadra scored his eighth goal of the season on a power play with u'nder three minutes remaining, but it was too little too late. 
Piccanatto had a spectacular performance bet\veen the pipes, with 27 saves and only allowing five goals to a Bear offense that was averaging almost eight goals a game. 
"The defense did a great job of covering up in front of the net," explained Piccanato. "I think our defense shut them down. We were down 2-0 in the third when they scored a short­handed goal. Had we scored on that power play, it's 2-1 and we're in the game." 
The teams then traveled to Orono, Maine, to finish the series on Saturday. Again the Bears took the early lead, jumping out to a 2-0 advantage in the first period. Freshman center John Rushin and sopho­more Tim Litchard each netted goals for the Irish, between an" other Maine goal, to cut the Bear lead to 3-2. 
After a second period power play goal by Maine's Jim Montgomery, Notre Dame again cut the Bear lead to one on a shorthanded goal by Curtis Janicke in the third oeriod. It was as close as the Irish would get, as Maine would net a power play goal thirty seconds later and another goal with thirty seconds left to give the Bears a fmal margin of 6-3. 
Irish goaltender Brent Lothrop had a good outing against the Bears, making a career-high 31 saves. The Irish, however, were limited to one power play opportunity for the game, while the Black Bears 

Be apart of it this year! 
We need chairpeople as well as commiHee members. 

can283c3897 
to join or for more infol 
were two of three. 
"They capitalize on their op­portunities," said Piccanato. "If you screw up they put it in the net. The small mental mistakes that every team makes, they turn into goals." 
The Irish will face Lake Forest this weekend in a home­and-home series, that will bring the Irish back to the Joyce Fieldhouse on Saturday, December 9. 

We are real close to going F .M., and 
YOU CAN MAKE ,.HE DIFFERENCE 
Tuesday, December 3, 1991 The Observer 


~·ss~E 
<::.\.00 CLO"MS. 
WILL 'b.! P\11 
"rn£M ~'fl~~ PLE"'sr.? 
"t.'i, W\~ UNDER'tolEf..R ISNT PRESSED! NEin\t.R ARE I'll'< SOC1<(.'5 ! 'iO\J DI~T I=IN\':>1-1 IRoNING.' 
BILL WATIERSON 
CALVIN AtiJ HOBBES ___....,., 
~HtRt.'S JAC\<rr~ 

IT'S STill 0~ "\1-\'t f'\..CX)\(~ W\.l'i 1)\\)N'T '10\J t\JT \1 A'Nt\'1? 
I 
,~'\ 
~ 
BILL WATTERSON 
GEE, M~ OWN (CJP'o( OF 
T\-\'t 'tMM-K..I?t-.1\0N 

PROC\.AI-\fi.IION 
,,II~ 


CROSSWORD  CAMPUS  
Tuesday  
9:30 a.m. -4:30 p.m.  Annual UNICEF holiday card and gift sale.  
6 Steve Cram, for one 7 Hiss Montgomery, for short  Concourse, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's.  
8 Egg purchases 9 Tracklaying vehicle 10 -Jeanne 11 Person of low  7 p.m. Presentation/Reception for Math, MCC, Computer Engineering. Students interested in discovering career opportunities with All State Insurance. Room 227 Math Building.  
menta 1i ty 12 Motor part 13 Filmy cobweb 21 King influenced by Richelieu (2 wds.) 23 West Virginia border ( 2 wds.) 30 "­With Love"  7 and 9 p.m. Film, " Longtime Companion." Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30 p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting. Room 202, Center for Continuing Education.  •  
32 Reprimand 35 Hiawatha, for one 36 Overthrow of a decision  LECTURES  
37 Well-known French song38 Fluid in a cruet  Tuesday  •  
(2 wds.) 39 "Grease" star 43 Mesmerize~ • 44 Posed (2 wds.) 46 Parallelograms 47 Kind of gasoline 48 Finishers 58 And so on (abbr.) 60 She-bearj Sp. 61 Roads (abbr.)  12:30 p.m. Seminar, "Problems of Transformation of Economic Systems in Eastern European Countries." Prof. John-ren Chen, University of lnnsbruck. Room C103, Hesburgh Center. 4:15p.m. Lecture, "Preparatory Lecture Preceding Visit to Terra Museum of American Art, Chicago, to View American Originals: Selections from Reynolds House, Museum of Art," Rose Marie Mannion. Annenherg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art.  - 
ACROSS Third addendum to a letter 5 Wrestling maneuvers 10 Cigarette (slang)14 Met solo 15 Hamburger garnish 16 Pot source 17 Like grape country 18 Kind of soprano 19 "Desire Under the 20----cit. 21 Moon rover 22 College course, for short 24 -Vegas 25 Pay dt rt 26 -----wan Kenobi of "Star Wars" 27 Opposite of yeh 28 Call ---­day2g Pretty much  31 Adhesive substance 33 River to the Seine 34 Well-known airport 35 More insensitive 38 Union member, at times 40 Spiral41 Like the Kalahari 42 Piano keys 45 Penny Marshall role 49 Little: Fr. so Pig -poke 51 "­Maria" 52 Sweetie . 53 Opposite of post 54 New York subway 55 European beetle 56 Like Methuselah 57 Punta del -59 ·---­and his money ... " 61 Pi rate in • Peter Pan"  62 Light bulb unit 63 Assume the exist­ence of 64 Aspen transport 65 Mr. Gul nness 66 Musical syllables67 Caesar, et a1 . DOWN 1 Famed conditioner 2 A -(deductive)3 Nipping jaw 4 Old quiz show, "You Don't -· 5 Headquarters (2 wds.)  7 p.m. Lecture on MBA school for College of Arts and Letters students, Robert Waddick, assistant dean emeritus of the College of Arts and Letters. O'Shaughnessy Hall, room 116. 8 p.m. Lecture, "The Inalienable Duties of Citizenship," Eugene McCarthy, Democratic presidential candidate and former senator. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. MENU Notre Dame Batter Fried Perch Roast Turkey Fettucini Alfredo Whipped Potatoesfl'urkey Gravy  


I 
i 
r Sports 
page 16 Tuesday, December 3, 1991 
Notre Dame barely slides by pesky Hawaii, 48-42 
Poor defense, miscues make it close 
By DAVE DIETEMAN yards. After gritty runs by 
Sports Editor tailbacks Tony Brooks and Rodney Culver, as well as full­back Jerome Bettis, Notre 
HONOLULU-For the first Dame found itself on Hawaii's time in history, Notre Dame 20 yard line. faced Hawaii on the gridiron. Tony Smith took an end 
Of the 50,000 fans in atten­around up the left sideline for dance at Aloha Stadium, few 13 yards to set up first and goalexpected the Irish to win by less for the Irish. Culver finished the than twenty points. drive, plowing through the 
Yet for the fourth time in re­Rainbow defense for a three­cent history, 18th-ranked Notre yard scoring run. Dame (9-3) squandered asub­Sophomore walk-on Rob stantial, early lead. This time, Leonard, who had a PAT at­the Irish held on to dump the tempt blocked in the pivotal
Rainbows (4-7-1) 48-42. fourth quarter, converted for a "I thought for the first 20 7-0 Irish lead. 
minutes, we played well on de­Notre Dame led 21-0 with fense," saiP, Notre Dame head 14:20 to play in the second coach Lou Holtz. "Then we re­quarter, but Hawaii scrapped
verted back to normal its way back to within 28-10 at form-missed tackles, missed halftiine. assignments. The Rainbows quickly went to "I thought offensively we kept work in the third quarter, ex­
the pressure on. But it was very ploiting Irish breakdowns to disappointing that we got the slice their deficit from 21 pointsbig lead and couldn't hang on to to 11. 
it. We just have problems However Notre Dame's potentpressuring the quarterback and offense continued to rage like a containing quarterbacks." · tsunami. 
In the first quarter, Irish Hawaii punted on its next sophomore cornerback Tom possession and appeared on the Carter set Notre Dame in mo­verge of falling hopelessly be­
tion with an interception of hind. Hawaii quarterback Ivin Another Irish foible set the Jasper's pas-s intended for Rainbows rocking, however, as 
Darrick Branch. Jeff Burris fumbled All-America Although the Irish failed to candidate Jason Elam's 51-yard
cash in on the early turnover, punt, giving Hawaii a first down 
Jasper gave them another at the Notre Dame 40. 
chance, as Carter nabbed a Trailing 42-20, the Rainbows 
second interception. would not quit. 
This time, Notre Dame con­Irish sophomore Clint verted the Rainbow miscue into "Cosmic" Johnson, who was the staple of Irish currency-a hailed as possible heir apparent touchdown. to Raghib "Rocket" Ismail after 
Quarterback Rick Mirer, who the 1991 Blue-Gold game, dealt fmished the night 12-19 for 218 Hawaii what could have been a yards passing, hit split end Tony 
see HAWAII/ page 13

Smith on a quick out for 23 
Irish Volleyball ends season with twin victories
Johnson 'rockets' into 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
spotlight with return 
HONOLULU-This season, Johnson------------­

The Notre Dame volleyball
nine different players have r a c e d 
team completed their regular
handled kickoff return duties through 
season with a pair of wins over
for the Irish. the gaping 
Texas-Arlington last weekend.
Prior to the Hawaii game, wedge 
The two victories improved the 
Clint "Cosmic" Johnson had created by 
team's record to 22-8 and put
returned five kickoffs for 81 his block­
the finishing touches on the
yards. His longest run was for ers, and 
first 20 win season since 1987. 
25 yards. 
only ~lam DAVE DIETEMAN 

After a heart-breaking five­
Yet in the past week's remamed . 
game loss to San Francisco last 
practices, Johnson was given a for the Sports Ed1tor 
week, the Irish have bounced
second chance at playing the s p e e d y 
back to win their final three
role of gamebreaker on a sophomore to beat. 
matches of the season, includ­
kicking team which had not Elam fmally caught Johnson, 
ing two in convincing fashion
been producing. but it was too late. Johnson
• over Texas-Arlington.
"Earlier last week we blazed past the Rainbow 
In the opening match against
decided to go with him," said kicker, who grabbed Johnson's 
the Mavericks, the Irish were
Holtz. "He had done a good sleeve and tripped him up as 
stretched to four games before
job on the scout squad and he he crossed the goal line. 
they could pull out the win.
promised me that he would The contingent of Notre 
After dropping the first game
run north and south. That's all Dame fans at the far end of 
10-15, they stormed back to 
we wanted-for him to take Aloha Stadium roared its 
take the next three, 15-9, 15-8
that sucker and go north and approval of the first Irish 
and 15-11. 
south-and that's what he did scoring kick return since
-
The Mavericks collected 73
do." 1990. That season, Todd Lyght 
kills to Notre Dame's 64 and
With 2:19 remaining in the raced 53 yards to the end zone 
also notched nine more digs,
third quarter, the Rainbows with a Navy onside kick. 
but couldn't manage to stop the 
concluded an eight play, 60 Against Hawaii, Johnson 
streaking Irish, who have won
yard drive with a 41-yard field amassed 1'36 yards on four 
15 of their last 17 matches.
goal by All-America candidate kickoff returns (an average of 
NCAA tournament bound
Jason Elam. 34 yards per return). On the 
Illinois and San Francisco are
Elam then lined up kicked season, the sophomore from 
the only teams who have had
off to Johnson, who stood Altamonte, Fla. has returned 
Notre Dame's number in their
waiting at the Notre Dame nine kicks for 217 yards (an 
fmal 17 matches. 
seven yard line. average of 24 yards per 
Freshman Christy Peters led
Johnson caught the ball and return). 
the way with a career high 22
accelerated upfield, where the "I was really happy to be in 
kills and 11 digs, followed by
Irish special teams were the end zone," said Johnson. 
Marilyn Cragin with 15 kills.
parting the Hawaii defenders "It's been a long year, and I 
Val Whitefield did it all for the
like Charlton Heston, playing really was glad. The guys in 
Mavericks, collecting 17 kills
the role of Moses in "The Ten front did a great job blocking 
and 16 digs. 
Commandments," parted the 
see CLINT/ page 13 see VOLLEY/ page 13

Red Sea. 






