
VOL. XXIII NO. 123 
TUESDAY APRIL 9 1901 
THE1NDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush cautions Congress about free trade 
HOUSTON (AP) -President would have never dared dream 
Bush said today that Americans possible." 
will lose jobs and economic Bush later flew to Dallas to 
growth if Congress insists on attend a memorial for John 
the right to make "eleventh­Tower, the former Republican 
hour changes" to a free-trade senator killed in a plane crash 
agreement with Mexico and last Friday, and to throw out 
other trade pacts. the first ball at the Texas 
Bush, keeping up the drum­Rangers' first game of the 
beat for extension of his fast­baseball season tonight. 
track trade authority, dismissed Bush landed at Dallas Naval 
big labor, environmentalists Air Station and paused before 
and other critics of the trade heading to the Tower memorial 
accord with Mexico as "fear­to honor the Voice of Hope 
mongers." Ministries as one of his "points 
"They seem to be the only of light." He said the organiza­ones who haven't learned lately tion had converted a dilapi­that defeatism produces defeat, dated school into a community while confidence and self-re­center in West Dallas. liance produce greatness," At a news conference Sunday Bush said in a breakfast speech after his brief airport meeting before 150 Hispanic business with Salinas, Bush also voiced leaders. hope that the United Nations 
Bush praised "those Demo­will play a bigger role in help­crat leaders in the U.S. ing the suffering Kurds and Congress ... who have the vi­other refugees inside Iraq. sion" to support the pact, in­The Washington Post today cluding House Speaker Torn quoted Secretary of Defense Foley and Son. Lloyd Bentsen of Dick Cheney as suggesting the Texas. Critics Include House use of U.N. forces to create Majority Leader Richard buffer zones inside Iraq to pro­Gcphardt. tect the refugees. Earlier Sun­
''I'm going to approach this day, Turkish President Turgut once the peace-keeping forces on this regime inside Iraq," he tive as well as the trilateral ac­strictly in a non-partisan, non­Ozal called for the United Na­move into place. said. But the president added, cord with Mexico and Canada political manner. It is too im­tions to create a sanctuary in "We've fulfilled our objectives, "I don't think you're going to are at stake. portant to get it bogged down in northern Iraq for the Kurds, by and now what we've got to do is see a police role in downtown "Fast-track doesn't affect partisan politics," said Bush. force if necessary. fulfill our concerns about the Baghdad." Congress' power to accept or 
Bush made his pitch the day Homan Popadiuk, a deputy innocents that are suffering--­reject trade al!reements. But it arter vowing with Mexican White House press secretary, the Kurds and the Shiites in the Bush's fast-track negotiating does prevent eleventh-hour President Carlos Salinas de said Bush had only a humani­south and those in Baghdad authority allows for only up or changes to agreements we have 
Gortari to fight hard for the tarian role in mind for the U.N. themselves," the president said. down votes in Congress on reached ... that force everyone agreement, and resolving to go peace-keeping force. "We have "We will be in consultation trade pacts. It expires May 31, involved to start from scratch," "head-on-head" against the to study" Ozal's comments, the with others at the United Na­but will automatically be re­said Bush. AFL-CJO, which fears an ero­spokesman said. tions to see whether the U.N. newed for two years unless a sion of jobs to south of the can ... enhance its peace-keep­simple majority of either the "If we lose our fast-track au­border. With Baghdad reluctantly ac­ing function," he said. House or Senate objects. thority, we lose any hope of 
lie also praised Salinas today, cepting the tough terms of the The refugees' plight has peo­Bush said that his ability to achieving these three agree­saying, "lie's doing a first-class U.N. cease-fire resolution, Bush ple "so outraged that there may secure a global trading agree­ments. We lose trade. We lose job. He's moved that country in voiced hope that "will have a be ways we can bring pressure ment in the Uruguay Round and jobs and jeopardize economic ways that some of his critics calming effect inside of Iraq" through the U.N. or elsewhere a South American trade initia-growth," said Bush. 
Anti-abortion demonstrators charged with criminal trespassing 
By PAUL PEARSON criminal trespassing, for which among those arrested. Lt. Norval Williams of the South to identify themselves, the peo­Associate News Editor the maximum sentence is one Three of the 107 total Bend Police. ple arrested were "causing the 
year in jail and a $5,000 fine. demonstrators arrested were According to Jacob Lambry, a system to slow down and wait 
The demonstrators have thus released on bond over the first-year candidate at Moreau [for them)." 
The 104 anti-abortion far refused to identify them­weekend after they identified Seminary who recruited NO demonstrators arrested Friday selves, but are eligible for bond themselves, Barnes said. students for the sit-in, the Lambry also criticized the outside the Women's Pavilion, and release upon giving the au­The demonstrators were ar­demonstrators are practicing a media for calling the people ar­2010 N. Ironwood, were ar­thorities their names, ad­rested Friday when they were policy of non-cooperation. rested at the clinic demonstra­raigned yesterday and given a dresses, and other pertinent in­found sitting on the grounds in "When you give them your tors. According to Larnbry, their court date of April 15, accord­formation, Barnes said. front of the doors of the name, they can book you and situation is similar to "going Ing to St. Joseph County Prose­According to Maria Rhornberg Women's Pavilion, refusing to basically do what they want through a 'No Trespassing' sign cutor Michael Barnes. of ND/SMC Right to Life, four let anyone except employees with you," said Lambry. to save someone who Is 
They are being charged with Notre Dame students were enter the building, according to Lambry said that, by refusing drowning in a pool." 

Student senator finally elected after controversial race 

By MEG SHUFF News Writer 
ISTUDENT SENATE ELECTION RESULTS 
After two weeks of contro­District 1 versy the District 1 Student Se­
VOTES

nate election has finally come to an end as David Certo has 
David 

been elected as the 1991-92 
CERTO 460
Student Senator. Voting attendance was higher than expected as total of 796 
Billy

students voted yesterday. Certo earned 460 votes ALLEN 336 defeating his opponent Bill Allen who earned 336 votes. 

feelings. It was a tough election, but in my mind there is no further possibility for con tro­versy," he added. 
Although Certo won the Dis­trict 1 Senatorial spot, he was angered by the controversy. 
"I was embarrassed to be a part of the whole thing, shocked at all the controversy, and appalled at all the blood spilled," he said. 
Allen also expressed strong feelings against the election saga. "I feel that the Senate 
The Observer!13rendan Rega~
The race which began on picked the single worst decision March 25 with the rest of tho later and the Senate revoked his between Bill Allen, who general election... and for all in calling another general elec­Senate elections was extended campaign. received the highest number of that it is worth, I hope that ev­tion." duo to an infringement of the Along with this ruling, the votes, and David Certo who eryone is satisfied," said "It Is sad that it had to go on rules by Paul Peralez, one of Senate also voted to hold an­originally came in third, but Matthew Caito, student gov­for this long, I think the people the original candidates. other general election with the moved up in Peralez's absence. ernment Election Committee got tired of voting over and Peralez was found guilty of three remaining candidates in­"The Student Senate took it Chairman. over, but I wish him (Certo) the campaign violations two days stead of declaring a run-off upon themselves to call a new "I hope there are no hard best of luck," said Allen. 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Oh, the things that are dreamt up in class 
Have you ever had a------­
class where the professor 
got really boring and your 
classmates were snoring 
like bears and you were 
just sitting there listening 
to your professor drone on 
and on, and your mind 

starting to think about Paul Pearson 
things that you had never  Associate News  
thought about before?  Editor  
No? Well, bear with me.  

This column is basically a list of some of the things I have dreamt up while in such classes. It's thoughts like these that probably kept me out of the Ivy League schools, but I digress ... 
• 
Why do people park on a driveway, but drive on a parkway? Wouldn't it be more logical the other way around? 

• 
If teachers are so' smart, why are they still in school? 

• 
(This one is dedicated to ND's Engineers Week, and to my three roommates whom I label "recovering engineers"} If you melted dry ice, could you go swimming without get­ting wet? . 

• 
If a tree falls in the woods, and there's no one around, well... WHO REALLY GIVES A DAMN ABOUT IT? 

• 
Why doesn't Col. Qadafi of Libya just promote himself to general? I mean, the way it is now seems pretty hypocritical, don't you think? 

• 
The human race has the technology to walk on the moon, right? Well, then, why can't the human race invent a way to keep the Crazy Glue bottle from sealing itself shut permanently after only one use? 

• 
If America won !he Revolutionary W2r, why do we all speak English? 

• 
Why do the feminists protest when I say "salesman" or "chairman" or "mankind," but don't seem to mind if I say "hangman" or "garbageman?" 

• 
Why does it seem that everybody is either pro-abortion and anti-death penalty or anti­abortion and pro-death penalty? Can't people make up their minds? 

• 
Why do some people insist on making their beds, knowing full well that they intend to mess it up in a few hours anyway? 

• 
What is the purpose of ordering a giant 32-oz. cup filled with DIET soda? Doesn't that kind of defeat the purpose of the endeavor? 

• 
Why do most of the machines that they say "are designed to save you time" end up wasting great big chunks of your time be­cause they break down all the time? (As I write this, we at The Observer office are still trying to get the AP wire to work again ... } 

• 
Why do the same men who chide women for showing their emotions feel no shame in screaming and bursting into tears when the 49ers win a Super Bowl at the last minute? 

• 
Why do they call Wednesday Hump Day, when everybody has sex on Saturday? 

• 
Why is it that the more boring a ci...ss is, the more likely it is that the professor will enforce a strict attendance policy? 


Today's Staff: 

News Production Ann Marie Hartman Karen Newlove Meredith McCullough Wendy Cunningham 
Sports Accent Rene Ferran Janelle Harrigan Jennifer Marten 
VIewpoint Scoreboard Brian Stahar Rich Mathurin 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduebon rights are reserved. 
The Observer 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Jailed drug bosses in business? 
•BOGOTA-Police and Colombian newspapers have accused the Ochoa brothers of directing their multimil­lion-dollar cocaine business from jail cells, but the justice minister said Monday such accusations were unproven. The accusations arose after police raided two ranches where 11 tons of pure cocaine were seized. The nation's police chief, Gen. Miguel Gomez Padilla, last week accused the Ochoas of owning the ranches. The Ochoas -Jorge Luis, Juan David and Fabio-are now awaiting trial in a Medellin jail after surrendering to authorities. 
Oil still leaking jnto persjan Gulf 
•KUWAIT CITY -Some 3,000 barrels of oil are still spilling daily into the Persian Gulf, adding to the woes of those trying to clean up one of the world's largest oil slicks, an environmental group said Monday. The oil is flowing from a sunken Iraqi oil tanker, broken pipelines at oil terminals and damaged offshore rigs in southern Kuwait, said Kerry Plowright of Honolulu, Hawaii-based Earth trust. 
NATIONAL Children should watch cholesterol 
•WASHINGTON-The government on Monday for the first time recommended that children join adults in fol-
OF INTEREST 
•James 
Gabriel, graduate student and pianist, will perform today at 4:00 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. Mr. Gabriel will perform sonatas by Mozart and Schumann, as well as works by Liszt and Chopin. 

•saint 
Mary's Women for the Environment will sponsor an animal rights presentation today in Haggar College Center at 7 p.m. 

•Aerobics 
class for students and faculty will meet on Wednesday from 12:15-1:15 p.m. at Stepan Center. 

•student 
Government Board of Trustees committee on cultural non-diverstiy is accepting applications for the 1991-92 committee. Applications can be picked up at the Student Government office and are due Wednesday, April 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April8, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
208.46 ... 0.02
213.72 Million 

S&P COMPOSITE 378.94 .. 0.56 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,926.73 4-18.32 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD -it-$0.30 to $359.80/oz. SILVER 1ft 10.7¢ to$ 3.95/oz. 
Tuesday Anrjl9 1991 
FORECAST: Windy and mild. Possible thunder­storms today , some being se­vere. Highs in the 80s with lows dip­ping into the 60s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  61  50  
Atlanta  81  65  
Berlin  54  41  
Boston  86  43  
Chicago  79  64  
Dallas·Ft.Worth  79  67  
Denver  60  36  
Detron  83  59  
Honolulu  82  69  
Houston  82  69  
Indianapolis  78  59  
London  59  46  
Los Angeles  72  55  
Madrid  68  43  
Mlarri Beach  80  74  
Moscow  46  39  
New Orleans  83  69  
New York  86  67  
Paris  50  37  
Philadelphia  85  54  
Portland. Ore.  53  37  
Rome  61  36  
St. Louis  83  65  
San Francisco  63  48  
South Bend  80  64  
Tokyo  55  50  
Washington, D.C  87  56  


lowing a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet, saying it could reduce their risk of heart disease later in life. The guidelines for youngsters are the same as those already recommended for adults. They call for limiting saturated fatty acids to 10 percent of calories, limiting fat intake to no more than 30 percent of calories and holding cholesterol to 300 milligrams a day. 
Landon diagnosed with cancer 
•LOS ANGELES-Michael Landon, who gained fame as the kid brother on "Bonanza" and later became a prairie family's patriarch and then an angel, 
has inoperable \_;duo.,ta, lib :.pukt:::.ludll 
said Monday. The 54-year-old actor­producer-director was told of the cancer Friday after being hospitalized overnight at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center for what doctors initially thought was an ulcer, said hospital spokesman Ron Wise. Landon, who began having serious stomach pains six weeks ago, returned early from a Utah ski trip and entered the hospital Thursday for tests. After learning of the diagnosis, he returned to his 10-acre Malibu estate. "Cancer of the pancreas is a 'silent' dis­ease, one that occurs without symptoms until it is in the advanced stages," the Cancer Society said. "Surgery, radiation therapy and anticancer drugs are treatment options, but have had very little influence on the 

17. Contact Joe Wilson at 283-1680 with any questions. 
•Notre 
Dame Video needs four new manager and new employees for next year. Applications are available in the store and are due on Friday, April 12 by 5 p.m. Call Steve Perkins at 283-1605 with questions. 

•Junior 
Parent's Weekend commissioner applications are available at Student Activities and are due on Friday. 

•Rig 
ht to Life will be distributing red roses and life rose appliques from 12-1 p.m. at Fieldhouse Mall and South Dining Hall for Pro-Life week at Notre Dame. 


•off-campus seniors should pick up their Senior Month Booklets at the LaFortune Information Desk this week. 
• 
In 1907: Russian Prime Minister Peter Stolypin announced that he would stop all military death sentences. 

• 
In 1940: German troops occupied Denmark. 

• 
In 1954: India reported that only 43 percent of its population speaks 15 recognized languages, noting 720 dialects and 23 tribal tongues. 

• 
In 1972: Jack Nicklaus won his fourth Masters go! title. 

•In 
1983: The U.S. announced a plan to set up a training base for Nicaraguan rebels in Honduras. 

• 
One year ago: Ryan White died at 18 after a five-year battle with the disease AIDS. 


Changes in Europe discussed 
By PATRICK HEALY 
News Writer 
Tumultuous events in Eastern Europe were discussed in a panel discussion Monday as ex­perts on the Soviet Union, Poland, and Lithuania offered their opinions on current events and future prospects of these countries. 
The discussion, "A New East­ern Europe-Soviet, Polish, and Lithuanian Perspectives" fo­cused on the tensions between the Soviet Union and its re­publics as well as the transition of Poland from a centralized economy to that of free market capitalism. 
George Brinkley, of Notre Dame's Department of govern­ment and international studies, presented a Soviet perspective starting from Mikhail Gor­bachev's early attempts at re­form to the bleak choices he faces today in holding together the Soviet Union. 
Brinkley said that a key to Gorbachev's reforms was that a Soviet Union improved inter­nally would succeed better in International affairs. 
However, although Gorbachev made attempts at putting structures for reform into place, including a federal form of government, implementation was sidetracked by public disil­lusionment with: the economy, conflicts with the Soviet re­publics, and the recent resigna­tion of foreign minister Edward Schevardnadze, said Brinkley. 
The crisis between the Soviet government and the republics is the fault of both Gorbachev and the republics, said Brinkley. 
Gorbachev, who planned to allow the republics to leave the Soviet Union after reforms had succeeded, believed republic leaders who pushed early for Independence had "personal ul­terior motives" and "were not to be trusted." 
Likewise, said Brinkley, the position taken by the republics allowed right wing Soviets to flourish and left Gorbachev un­supported. 
Brinkley said the Soviet Union is now too polarized for Gor­bachev to pull off the political "miracles" he was noted for in 

1ne uoserver

Monday, April 9, 1991 page3 
his earlier years. The polariza­tion of the Soviet Union "is reminiscent of Germany in the 1930s," he said. 
Gorbachev's only options, said Brinkley, are "to sacrifice the democratization" of the So­viet Union and use force to pre­serve it, or Jet it fall apart "and build a democratic federation from the bottom up" with will­ing republics. 
Offering the Lithuanian per­spective on the problems in the republics, Ginte Damusis fo­cused on that nation's "Bloody Sunday, in which fourteen
II 
Lithuanians were killed and over six hundred wounded when Soviet soldiers overtook a television station Jan. 13. 
Damusis, New York City bu­reau chief of the Lithuanian In­formation Center, said that "there is no question Gorbachev mastermindedII the attack on the station. 
Damusis said that a subse­quent investigation found that the attack "was an attempt to 
see EUROPE/page 6 

r:====================~ Cultural diversity proposal approved 

is looking for students interested in the paid position of 

Purchasing Agent 
Freshman and sophomore business majors interested in gaining valuable business and managerial experience which could possibly lead to promotion within the business department should contact Gil Gomez at 239-7471 for more information. 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
The 1991-92 Student Senate unanimously approved a pro­posal recommending a continu­ing campus-wide commitment to cultural diversity. 
According to a proposal submitted by David Florenzo, student body vice-president, this is to be done so "by making a conscientious and earnest ef­fort to investigate the possible implementation of the recom­mendations presented in the board of trustees report." 
The resolution recommended to the Academic Council specifi­cally referred to the Intellectual Life section of the Board of 

~::=====================::J Trustees report. 
Student Union Board 
Presents: A Lecture 

by J .A. (Jay) Parker 
J .A. Parker serves as president of the Lincoln Institute for Research and Education. Inc .. a non-profit. independent. non-partisan public policy organization in Washington. 
D.C. He is editor of its quarterly journal. Lincoln Review. 
Education: Diversity or Extremism? 
Wednesday, April 10, 1991 
7:30pm 

Library Auditori urn 
The resolution stated that "the University should advocate and support a comprehensive class dealing with race rela­tions. This class must be mandatory in order to reach those most affected by igno­rance and racism, thus improv­ing the social situation of all students." 
In order for this recommen­dation take effect, it must be approved by the council. The senate also discussed the Uni­versity's efforts of increasing the percentage of ethnic Ameri­cans among the student body and faculty. 
The term ethnic American describes those of African American, Asian American, Hispanic American and Native American descent. 
Currently there is only one percent of ethnic Americans among the University's faculty members. 
The Senate discussed the dif­ficulty of getting ethnic Ameri­can faculty members and be­lieves because students are un­able to have many ethnic Amer­ican teachers, it is necessary for students to become more aware of ethnic diversity through other means. 
"If we cannot bring ethnic di­versity through the faculty, we need to bring it in the curricu­lum," stated Melissa Smith, a student representative of the council. 
If approved, the council would determine where a re­quired class on cultural diver­sity and race relations would take place in the university re­
quired curriculum. 
This council makes all major decisions concerning academic policy and scheduling through­out the University. It is com­prised of administrators, faculty members and students form each of the four colleges. 

DuQUESNE UNIVERSITY 
Spending your SUMMER in Pittsburgh? 
DUQUESNE'S 1991 SUMMER SESSIONS OFFER A WIDE RANGE OF: *TRANSFERABLE COURSES* *ACCELERATED SESSIONS* *START DATES MAY THRU JULY* 
Registration for visiting students is easy ­by phone, fax, mail or in person! 
INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853 
for your complete SUMMER 1991 INFORMATION PACKAGE 
The Observer Monday, April 9, 1991 
SECURITY BEAT 

SATURDAY, APRIL 

11 :15 a.m. A resident of lewis Hall receiving a harassing phone call. Aresident of Alumni Hall 
When a golf ball hit him in the he was playing golf on the Golf Course. 

p.m. A resident of Flanner lroe,oiv•~d a br.,l<on ""'"" whilo lbasketbaN at the JACC. He was tranatiOJ!tedl 
St Joseph's by Notre Dame 
There's only one way to come out ahead of the pack. 

ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 
+
American 
Red Cross 







Federal ~pending on education criticized 
NEW YORK (AP)-America spends a smaller share of its wealth on schools than two­thirds of the world's most ad­vanced countries, according to a teacher's union study released Monday. 
Government spending on U.S. public and private education, from kindergarten through postsecondary education, equaled 5.1 percent of the Gross Domestic Product. That ranked lOth of 15 advanced na­tions in 1987, the latest year for which comparable data are available, according to the study by the American Federa­tion of Teachers. 
Denmark spent 7.6 percent of its Gross Domestic Product, followed by Sweden, 7.2 per­cent; Canada, 7.1 percent; the Netherlands, 6.8 percent; Nor-· way, 6. 7 percent; France, 6 percent; Austria, 5.9 percent; Belgium, 5.3 percent; and Aus­tralia, 5.2 percent. 
Trailing the United States: Japan, Britain and Switzerland each devoted 5 percent of GOP to schools, while Italy spent 4. 7 percent and then-West Ger­many 4.5 percent. 
"This study lays to rest the myth that the U.S. spends more than other nations," said Albert Shanker, president of the 750,000-member teachers union. "No matter how you measure it, our investment falls short of being number one." 
Among factors contributing to lower U.S. spending, the AFT study said America had the fourth highest pupil-teacher ra­tio of 18. 7, compared with an average of 15.8 among the 15 nations studied. 
The United States also had the second largest average ele­mentary enrollments at 352 per school, compared with a 186­pupil average for the 15 coun­tries. 
Still, the report is unlikely to end the debate about whether the United States should be spending more, or whether the countries that spend most nec­essarily outperform others ed­ucationally. 
Japan, for example, had the largest average school enroll­ments, 412 pupils, but most consider it an educational pacesetter. 
Commenting on the findings, William Cummings, an expert on international educational fi­nance at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, said that nations spending the most aren't necessarily delivering the best education. "The point is there are different ways to run educational systems, and there are more ef­ficient ways to achieve high levels of benefits," he said. 
·­

....................... 
• • • • • • 0 0 ••••••••••••••• 

.. • • • 0 ••••••••••••••• 
• • • 0 0 • 0 •• 0 ••••••• 0 •• 
•••• 0 0 ••••••• 0 • 0 0 ••• 
19g2··Jp·w··
: 0 • : : • : • : : 
0 •••••••••••••• 0 • 0 0 0 ••• 

o o o o o'o o o o o o , o o 0 
0 • • •• 0 ••••••••••••• 0 0 
:~pp~~~~~:i:~~~ .. 


:: :o:ufiiliibte:::::.. 
••••••••••• 0 ••••••••• 0 •••••••• 
::: stude:nt :ft:ctiultles:: 
•• 0 •••••• 0 •••••••• 0 •••• 0 • 0 0 0 •• 0 0 
••• 0 •• 0 ••••••• 0 0 

:3rd :floor: tafortu:ne: 
••••••• 0 •• 0 0 • 0 •••••••••••• 0 • 0 • 
0 0 • 0 0 •••••••••••• 
::: :oeud: line:: f:rt Rptll :12: 
0 0 ••  0 0  •• • •  0 •  0 •  • •  0 •  •• •  0 •  ••••• •• 0 0 • 0 • •• ••  0 0  ••• 0  0  0  • 0  • 0  
••••• ~~--­ 0  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •••  0  •• • •  






IRISH HEARTLIGHTS {!.~ 
3 & 6 MILE FUN RUNS 
T:6~~~~T!:os;~~~s ~ 
THURSDAY, APRIL 11 5:30PM 
FOOD & REFRESHMENTS 
SPONSORED BY 
ENTRY FORMS AVAILABLE AT NVA, LAFORTUNE AND DINING HALLS 
NON-VARSITY AND FOOD SERVICES 



Student Union Board 
Presents A Lecture: 
The Sexual Revolution 
and Space Behavior Public vs. Private 
by Dr. Judith Reisman Director of1he Institute for Media Education 
Tuesday, April 9, 1991 Theodore's /:30 pm 
Tickets On Sale Today 
Les Miserables Trip  April11  
Cubs Vs. Phillies Trip  April15  
$20  

Buy your tickets at LaFortune Information Desk 
f 
Tuesday, April9, 1991 1he Observer 
Publication achievements recognized 
By MEGAN JUNIUS yourself." "I am honored to have re­News Writer The Observer also earned ceived these awards, especially 
many honors, including a first due to the fact that each of the 
place award for Best Editorial, stories dealt with issues I feel 
Both The Observer and The "ROTC enables many to attend are significant to the Notre Dome were awarded state-wide Notre Dame," and and a second Dame community," she said. recognition by the Indiana Col­placing for the Best Special Is­Yant also praised the overall legiate Press Association for sue, "Irish Football '90." performance of The Observer outstanding achievements Several Observer staff mem­and The Dome in the competi­within their publications. bers placed for their individual tion. "That both of these publi­
The awards were presented articles and graphic designs. cations received so many at the 1990-91 Indiana Colle­Kelley Tuthill, editor-in-chief, honors says a lot about the giate Press Association Publica­placed second for Best Inves­quality and commitment of the tions Awards ceremony, Satur­tigative Story, "NO students people involved, especially since day, April 6 in Fort Wayne, In­accuse police of brutality." Notre Dame does not have a diana. Tuthill also received two third journalism school." 
The Dome received a total of place standings. These included 46 points, with the honor of the Best Overall Newspaper Design Other award winners: Division I Yearbook of the Year, and Best Front Page Design, •Kathleen Carretta, a Saint placing in 18 categories. both for the Sept. 20 issue. Mary's writer, received a third 
Compared to past years the Monica Yant, news editor, re­place award for Best Feature book received more awards ceived first place awards for Story, "Date Rape." than usual, said Madeline Best News Story, "Counseling •Scott Brutocao, former as­Castellini, editor-in-cheif of the center offers supporting pro­sistant sports editor, placed first Dome. grams," and Best Column, for Best Sports Story, "Notre 
"It is nice to come up on top "Inclusive language not for ev­Dame and the MCC: A good when you are in direct competi­eryone." Yant's continuing match?" •Michael Muldoon, former art emeritus, and Michael Muldoon tion with schools than have a series on the "Registration Pro­•Rich Kurz, associate sports director, received first place for received third place in this much bigger staff and a larger cess," received a second place editor, received second for Best Best Informational graphic, same category for their amount of resources, rather finish for Best Continuing Cov­Sports Feature Story, "Louder "Miami." graphic, "Getting Around Mi­than just being judged against erage of a Single News Event. buoys Irish hockey." •Alison Cocks, editor-in-cheif ami." 


Campus Ministry and You 
"The Lord has been taken from the tomb, and we don't know where they have put him." So they went looking for him. And generations of Christians have done the same ever since. Some of us put him away, where he will be safe and have absolutely no effect on anyone in any way. We've hidden Him in hardened hearts and grandiose buildings and controlling theologies: no heart, no breathing-Jesus is mummified. 
Others of us tell him once more -there is no room in the inn. Be homeless. Be 
hungry. Be sick, be lonely-we don't care. You are not us and we are not you. 
Jesus is abandoned. 

Still others accept the challenge and commission to preach and bear witness to all he lived for: to establish the kingdom of justice and peace at any cost on earth as in heaven, among all peoples and nations-even at the cost of our own lives. Jesus is risen. 
Easter is the most significant day of the Christian year because of how it crystallizes the essence of Christianity. We will live forever, if we live as if we were God. We will live forever if we let the God who dwells at the deepest point of our humanity live each day. We will live forever if we live as Jesus lived even if it leads to our death. We live as Jesus lived and become willing to die as Jesus died. 
Even those who witnessed the rising of Jesus did not understand what it meant, anymore than we understand all that it means and can mean. The heart of the Christian faith is to live out the risen Lord within us. To live as though we were God. We are all, at our deepest levels of existence, one with that power and person we call God. The challenge is to live that out in joy and with selfless love and compassion. So we shelter the homeless and comfort the sorrowing. We forgive those who have hurt us and love and mourn the losses not just of ourselves but especially of our enemies. We go about doing good works and healing those in the grip of the devil. We set our hearts on what pertains to the higher realms and become intent on things above rather than on earth. 
God and us are one when we discover that the risen Lord taken from the tomb has been put in our lives, so we might become who He is and was. We gather at the table of the Eucharist because he tells us: drink my blood; be my body, and you will be as me. You too will have victory over death. 
In the words of the great spiritual quoted in the Campus Ministry Easter card, facing the rising sun of the new day begun, let us march on till victory is won. 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Church 
Saturday, April 13 5:00pm Fr. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
Sunday, April 14 
10:00 am Fr. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 
11:45 am Fr. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
We remember in prayer our deceased family members. Brother of Devon McDonald Grandmother of Darrin and Kevin Harnisch 

page 6 1ne uoserver Monday, April 9, 1991 

Europe 
continued from page 3 
overthrow the Lithuanian gov­ernment with the aim of restoring the communist party" as head of the government. 
The commitment to break from the Soviet Union has been further sparked by the "Bloody Sunday" incident, and Damusis said that "Baltic independence is inevitable." 
The Lithuanian Information Center is a subsidiary of Lithuanian Catholic Religious Aid (LCRA), a relief agency which provides humanitarian aid. 
The LCRA has loaned Notre Dame a photographic display documenting the "Bloody Sun­day" massacre. The display, containing text from the New York Times and interviews of eyewitnesses, is currently on display in LaFortune Center. 
Outside of the Lithuanian-So­viet Union conflict, Lucjan Or­lowski described Poland's eco­nomic developments in its ef­forts towards a free market economy. 
Orlowski, a fellow of the American Council of Education, said that although "Poland's economic situation was com­pletely devastated" due to cen­tralized government planning, new economic planning is edg­ing Poland toward capitalism. 
This plan hinges on privatiza­tion of rirllls, entrepreneurship, and foreign investment, said Orlowski. 
Orlowski stated that Poland is ripe for foreign investment because of its cheap labor, cheap factories, and govern­ment regulations which will al­low foreign nations to repatri­ate 100 percent of their profits. 
Some problems for Poland't economic development remaln, said Orlowski, as computer and telephone communication is still dated. 
Also, "deregulation of prices by the government is faster than decomposition of monopo­lies," which results in high in­flation, said Orlowski. Orlowski added, "The government is still interfering too much." 
However, Poles are showing market savvy, as demand for stock is strong, said Orlowski. Ironically, said Orlowski, the Warsaw stock market is housed in what was formerly communist headquarters. 
The panel discussion was or­ganized and sponsored by the International Graduate Student Committee of the Graduate 
Government. 
111ar*stoyou... itwortcs... 
for ALL OFUS 



Student Union Board sponsors NO fun 
By CHRISTINE WALSH 
News Writer 
What do the Collegiate Jazz Festival, campus movies, guest lecturers and Bookstore Bas­ketball have in common? The Notre Dame Student Union Board (SUB). 
SUB is the division of Student Government primarily respon­sible for planning the vast ma­jority of student events and ac­tivities. The SUB operating budget for the 1990-91 year was $158,650, allocated by Student Activities. The board is headed by the five-member SUB Executive Council. 
Executive Council officers for the 1991-92 year include: Board Manager Lynn Ramsay, Director of Programming Beth Wittman, Director of Marketing Heather Burns, Director of Relations Kristina Hannam and Controller Chris Weismantel. The members assumed their new posts April 1. 
A primary goal of the new board, according to Ramsay, is to place a "greater emphasis upon marketing and research to find out what students want to do." 
For example, students are not always content with the bands that are brought to play on campus, said Ramsay. To alleviate this problem and bet­ter serve students interests, SUB will gauge student opinion through campus surveys, she said. 
As board manager, Ramsay oversees the entire SUB organi-

This is an undated photo of the type of Brazilian-built Empresa Brasileira de Aaronautica commuter plane used by Atlantic Southeast Airlines which crashed Friday in Brunswick, Georgia killing all 
aboard including former U.S. San. John Tower. 

is currently seeking Saint Mary's students who are interested in becoming involved as: 
Saint Mary's News Writers 
We will have an informational meeting April 1 0 at 8 p.m. in Room 304 Haggar Hall, Saint Mary's. If you have questions or are interested but cannot atten? the meeting, contact Emily Willett at 284-5086, or Monica Yant at 239-5303. 
Student Union and Student,............................................. 

s:MC/N:o
. . . . . . 
:SUMMER:PROGRAMS: 
. . . . . ...... . 
:LONDON~ROM:E 
:i\ilay:22-Ji.ine 21: 
..................... 
:June:1s-Jo1·: 1:s:
............... Y .... 




OP:ENINGS: AVAILABLE: 
. . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . 
: : For Information: Call: 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 



::Professor :A:. A~ :eJa:ck: 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
:~~4~4~~~ (9f:fJ9~):
"' ..................... . 

:::::: ~?~-~!~~: (~~~): 
zation, ensuring that the board provides "quality social, intel­lectual and cultural opportuni­ties for the Notre Dame student body." The board manager is also a voting member of the Student Senate and sits on the Student Life Coordination Council and the Student Gov­ernment Budget Committee. 
This is Ramsay's first position within SUB. Previously, Ramsay served in Student Government. She has also chaired the Freshman Class Council, has been involved in three Board of Trustees reports and coordinator for the GOLD (Guidance and Orientation for Long-term Development) Pro­gram. 
SUB is a dynamic organization because its members are 
AP Photo 
"people who just want to get involved ... have fun and do a great service," said Ramsay. Conducting SUB in a certain way because "'we've always done it that way, because it has been the tradition," is not Ram­say's philosophy, as she looks toward reorganizing SUB in new and different ways. 
"We are really excited about having Lynn as manager... someone from an 'outside' group," said Wittman, who added that by having a man­ager from outside the SUB ranks might bring innovative ideas to the organization. In fact, "This may be the first time someone from outside SUB has been elected manager," she said. 
As director of programming, Wittman will act as a "resource" to the comminssion­ers when coordinating pro­grams and is responsible for communicating and implement­ing the policies of the SUB Ex­ecutive Council. 
Basically, the director of pro­gramming "helps subgroups of SUB decide whether a proposed program will go over or not," said Wittman. 
The SUB commissions that program the actual events for SUB include: 
•An Tostal 

•Campus Entertainment (sponsors comedy shows, car­nivals) 
•Collegiate 
Jazz Festival 

•Cultural 
Arts (promotes 


see SUB/page 7 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Design Editor 
For further information, contact Jay Colucci, 283-4335 or 239-7471 
TRANSITION FROM BACKPACK TO BRIEFCASE 
Sponsored by the Senior Class and the University Counseling Center 
Tuesday April 9, 1991 7-8 p.m. LaFortune/Notre Dame Room 

BUDGETING 
Speaker: Michael Boehm, '62 Financial Consultant 
Mr. Boehm will address 
personal budgeting 
concerns, i.e., 
managing your income 
and expenses. 

Monday, Apnl 9, 1991 I he Observer page7 ~ ·-l 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-­

Ethics emphasized in college athletics 
By Frank Rivera 
Assistant News Editor 
In 1887, when the two most popular sports were wrestling and marbles, a group of Notre Dame students played its very first football game against a visiting University of Michigan football team. 
Over one hundred years later, as sports become more and more a big money operation at the college level, ethics may be­come less Important. 
Last night Father William Beauchamp, executive vice president of the University, Patty O'Hara, vice-president of Student Affairs, and Digger Phelps, head basketball coach, discussed "Ethics In Sports," as part of the Professional Ethics Lecture Series. 
While some may think ethics simply means following the "rules," O'Hara, who served on 


Campus Ministry and You 

Spons by: Baptist St t Union Campus Study Campus ship Camp istry Fellowship of .._..n•··""·ian Athletes Graduate nt Union 
lc lnterVarsity C "'.........~ Fellowship 


Moreau inary Notre Da ncounter The N D $~ of Faith 

'"f'•\:ij~ t' 

7:30 pm, Tuesqfiy_.: April 9, 1991 Sacred HfjS!.t Church 
the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Infractions Committee for two years, said following the rules in the NCAA Is not proof of wholly ethical actions on a school's part. Rather, the rules are a "bare minimum" with which the member schools must comply. 
Many infractions occur when a school's athletic department, or coach, becomes more pow­erful than the administration, according to O'Hara, resulting In a coach's actions going unchecked or allowing the coach to build a "wall" of assis­tants so that he may not be held directly accountable for any infractions. 
O'Hara said that the NCAA must create a rule to hold a head coach liable for the ac­tions of his assistants In order to prevent this problem. In ad­dition, schools must institute "internal procedures" to help keep a check on its athletic de­partments' actions. 
Admissions decisions on stu­dent-athletes must be made by the admissions offices, said Beauchamp, even as college athletics become more and more bigger business. 
Even at such a high profile football institution such as Notre Dame, said Beauchamp, 100 percent of the football players earn their degrees. 
In order to keep a better watch over athletics at colleges and universities, said Phelps, there should be a "neutral third party," such as the courts, out­side of the NCAA, which makes decisions overseeing ethics in sports. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Provost Office, the Univer­sity Academic Code of Honor Committee and the Student Academic Council Committee. 



I [II 

0MPUS 

By MIKE DEFRANCO 

MINISTRY 

News Writer 
In the Year of Women it Is important for the Notre Dame community to recognize the role of women ecologists in the history of science, said Jean Langenheim, guest speaker of the Nieuwland Lecture Series last night. 
In her lecture "The Path of Women Ecologists: Progress From the 19th Century to the Present," Langenheim gave her listeners a brief synopsis of women ecologists of the past and the problems they faced in gaining notoriety. 
Langenheim emphasized the fact that women ecologists have bad an import function since the beginning of the science. In fact, it was a woman, Ellen Swallow who is credited with establishing ecology on the whole. For this, she has been given the title, "the Woman Who Founded Ecology." 
Langenheim explained, in ecology's early days, women gained a great number of doc­torate degrees. For e'xample, "Women consisted of 100 per­cent or 50 percent of Ph.D.s in botany before 1940." 
This correlation between women and botany was another major point in the lecture. Langenheim said, "Women have studied plants more commonly than other branches of ecol­ogy." 
She attributed this to the fact that it has been a tradition since the Victorian Age for women to be interested in 
SUB 
continued from page 6 
awareness of music, literature, drama and dance) 
•Ideas & Issues (invites guest 
speakerst1ecturers) •Movies 
•Musical entertainment 
•Services 
(plans fall and spring break trips) 

•Special 
Events (i.e. Welcome Week, Parents' Football Week­end, St. Patrick's Week) 


•Sophomore Literary Festival 
The SUB director of relations is responsible for the recruiting and retention of SUB members and relates SUB events to the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and South Bend communities plants, and consequently to be more interested in studying them. 
In the beginnings of ecology, "Women generally found op­tions restricted to teaching," said Langenheim. However, through the hard work and ac­complishments of women such as Lucy Braun, Harriet Barclay, and herself, women have been given more opportunities to prove themselves. In many cases they have shown them­selves to be excellent ecologists. 
Unfortunately, women still race many problems in the field of ecology as well as in many other sciences. Despite the fact that they have been very suc­cessful in the field, women still face unemployment, smaller pay, and less opportunities for promotion than men do. 
This, according to Langen­heim, coupled with the fact that marriage sometimes hurts women ecologists, has limited women's accomplishments and will continue to limit them until attitudes change. 
Langenheim emphasized the fact that "perseverance is often the key to success," and she "hopes that in the future there will be no reason to discuss separately the role of women scientists." 
Langenheim will be speaking on related topics this evening and tomorrow night in the Galvin Life Science Building. A reception will also be given at 8 
p.m. tonight in honor of her being named guest speaker of the Nieuwland Lecture Series. 
through the SUB Calendar and press releases. Hannam will also be responsible for intra­office relations. 
The controller maintains the financial records of SUB. Weismantel will also provide information regarding past programs and offer financial projections and advice for pro­posed events. 
As director of marketing, not only will Burns be in charge of marketing research (surveying the wants and needs of the stu­dent body), but also publicity (advertising for SUB events). In step with Ramsay's overall council goals, Burns sees her mission as "raising a greater awareness [of SUB]... People do not realize how much SUB does," she said. 
----~ ~-~-----·---­



Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, April9, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
N-• Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VI-point Editor ................. .Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willen Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Rotating statue of Mary is a ridiculous suggestion 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing in response to Shannon Neptune and Keira Kazemerski's article concerning the rotating statue of Mary ( The Observer, March 28). This is undoubtedly the most ridiculous suggestion that we have ever heard. We are sorry that they feel so distressed be­cause they can only see the back of Mary atop the Dome. 
We also know that your sense of seclusion stems from the fact that your dorm does not have a quad. But if you do not like your dorm's geographical location, move. It is truly a shame that your sense of be­longing on campus depends on whether you can see Mary's front. Maybe we should peti­tion the University to tear down Washington Hall so that we may have a better view of the statue of Mary atop the Dome. 
John A. Cocktostln Irwin M. Fletcher Cavanaugh Hall April3, 1991 
Dear Editor: 

I feel a need to respond to the letter by Paul Peralez in April 4th's Observer. My belief is that he does a wonderful job making a complete fool out of himself, but for anyone who does not see this, there are a few things I would like to explain first. 
First, Peralez continues to make faulty connections be­tween the money allocated to "black" organizations and Student· Government support of SUFR. The first problem with this theory is that these funds were allocated about eight months before SUFR was ever heard of. Beyond this, to my knowledge neither of these or­ganization has spent any of their money illegally, which means that no one in Student Government, or the Administration for that matter, could take it away -assuming that we wanted to. 
It is my personal belief, based on Peralez's defense in front of the Senate, that he knew this idea was faulty when he used it to defame one of his opponents. (Even were this not so, he gave no testimony that he even made an attempt to find out whether it was a correct analysis or not). While this is only my opinion, the fact that he continues to charge that Student Government supports SUFR based on budget considered by the campaign allocations-after having the rules to be grounds for forfei­total lack of connection ture. explained to him in detail and stating that he understood As for his statements that he it-leads me to further believe is a person "of the utmost in­that Paul Peralez is either a tegrity" and pledged to restore person who will state anything "reason" to Student as fact to get his way or that he Government; as well as his ten­has trouble distinguishing dency to label people as racist between fact and imagination. while making claims about 
some kind of black dominance 
Second, Peralez uses funding thing on campus-well, I'll allocations as a lead-in to the leave that for you to figure out. charge that Student Oh, and before I see a response Government has been showing how I have just "browbeaten by blacks." The "proved" Peralez's accusations simple fact is that both BCAC about Student Government, let and NAACP are among the most me point out that I am quite effective and best run student outspoken against SUFR. I find organizations on campus and most of their demands inane both tend to have large, active and their tactics childish and memberships and large unnecessarily hostile. But I find agendas. When presented with the claims and tactics of Paul applications from organizations Peralez to be more distasteful. as traditionally active as these, the budget committee tends to One final word. I would like be generous with the student to ask the Observer to apologize activity fee-which, as the to the three remaining district name implies, is intended for one candidates and to the students' activities. overworked election committee 
for publishing Peralez's attack 
Senate is not under the thumb during the district one elec­of the "black community," tions. It was a case of unusu­whatever that refers to. The ally poor judgment, considering simple fact is that Paul Peralez the amount of damage the broke several campaign rules Observer has already done to including putting up unap­the whole election. proved posters, defaming an opponent and not settling cam­Michael K. Gaffney paign penalties by the election 89 -91 Senator, District 3 day-the last of which alone is Aprll4, 1991 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 


NAACP has improved rights of all minorities 
Dear Editor: 
I must say I read Paul Peralez's defense (The Observer, April 4) with much pity-not for consequences in­curred from actions occurring during his campaign, but rather fro his blatant denunciation of a group that I believe demands respect: the NAACP. During the not-too-distant Civil Rights Movement, it was this group and others like it which helped to make it possible for blacks, Hispanics and other minorities to obtain a university education, or any education at all, for that matter. 
Have segregated schools and James Meredith so easily escaped his memory? Some may argue that today, groups such as the NAACP are no longer needed and serve only to propagate reverse discrimina­tion, but as evidenced from Peralez's obvious prejudice, 
DOONESBURY 
these groups are critical in as­suring such an injustice never resurfaces. 
Centuries of discrimination cannot be reversed in three decades; only recently have the fruits of years of struggle and hardship begun to be enjoyed by my generation. But that doesn't mean the struggle is over-not when unwritten seg­regation persists across America and racial misconcep­tions and stereotypes prevail on all sides. I hope that Mr. Peralez reflects on the fact that had it not been for this "racist" organization and its "schemes" (his words, not mine), he, Paul Peralez, the Hispanic, may not even have found himself in the position to defend his integrity, for he would not likely be here. 
Andrea Gutierrez Lyons Hall Aprll7, 1991 

7Hm'5AB501J.!TUY 
NOTHING W!?{)VG 
IA/17H A 28-Y8AR--a/J 5/NGt& 6.At-KICKI/IK3 lJPH81<. H8tl5 NCW Ml? lHfN! !3VtN BAa<. IN lH& ~-' 
IAJlU, CXtiY. HER FIRSTHOU..YwaJI? /3(Jfrfi?llfNl? alAS !3fjNN'f 7HAU. "5H& 
tt/A5 At/AJAY5 GO­ING UP 70 H/5 Of­
F/C/3 
II 

G&TTH/5-NO!AND H&ADOF 5H&WA5 
CA577NGl IJN AC1Ke95! 
I 
(AJHAT /..IJCJ(/ 
\ 

'I wake at night and begin to think about a serious problem and decide I must tell the Pope about it. Then I wake up com­pletely and remember that I am the Pope.' Pope John XXIII 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND.IN 46556 


Viewpoint
Tuesday, April 9, 1991 page 9 
Holy Cross Associate work was educational 
LEnERS TO THE EDITOR 
Roemer's vote on war was intelligent and responsible 
Dear Editor: the decision and then either 1) factors in deciding on votes. If that when, after going through marketing maybe you can make 
Today I read Anne Marie decided that morally the use of polls replace our represen­the proper channels, the war them believe that this was their Crane's letter criticizing Tim such devastating and crowd tatives and senators con­began and soldiers were killing victory also. I am disillusioned Hoerner for voting against use pleasing force was not the sciences, we have dehumanized and cheering, Tim supported and sick that we are such a of force in the Gulf War (The correct answer or 2) gone along our most important leaders, the U.S. troops as much as any­violent country and a violent Observer, April 4). Not only was with older Democratic and that would be a tragedy. one. However, Tim could be community. Tim voting as a conscientious representatives in an effort to The last point I want to take proud that he had done his part I still condemn war in any and law maker, but he was keep an aggressive president issue with is Ms. Crane's de­to try to avoid it. That is the every way and the "All Star exercising restraint in the face from bypassing proper means scription of the vote against use legitimate end of Tim's vote. Salute to the Troops" last night of rabid, frightening patriotism for getting approval for the use of force as a "vote that has no I know that most of the did nothing to change my mind. by his constituents such as of force. Option two shows legitimate end" and "not country overwhelmingly sup­That crap does not make me Anne Marie Crane. Ms. Crane smart politics on his part and supporting the mission" of the ported the war. I did not, and proud to be an American, but contends that Tim was option one shows an active and families, friends and troops. as one letter a while back said, I the courage to be conscientious irresponsible in voting against important use of a moral Although the patriotic fever cannot share in the victory. in the face of aggressive the majority of his constituency conscience, that is if you are distorted us to think so, the war Thank God. You can keep your militarism does. I do not when he knew of polls willing to allow a representative had not actually begun at this oil-burning Pyrrhic victory. assume that resisting violence is beforehand which showed to do so. time and Tim's vote was not a I never want to share in so moral and virtuous. Rather, I support for use of force. Voters like Anne Crane are betrayal of anyone. This was a much destruction, social neglect completely believe this and 
Looking carefully at the action completely disregarding his debate and a vote over the lives and death. Share the victory know it to be true. Tim took reveals that Ms. Crane sensitive political position and of hundreds of thousands of instead with the homeless, the Sean B. Scanlon is wrong in her criticism. Tim not allowing Tim to be a re­humans, a trivial fact that her poor and the elderly and with Off-Campus Hoerner is an astute politician sponsible, inte lligen t moral "mission" disregards. I am sure some good music and clever April 4, 1991 and an intelligent, personable force in an otherwise machine­man. If you agree with Crane like Congress. I voted for Tim that voting against the majority in this last election and would is "not respecting our decisions" vote for him again tomorrow if I than perhaps I have Tim base my choice solely on that completely wrong and actually vote. Anne Crane implies that he is quite dull witted. But this we should want "yes" men in is not the case. office to make our laws. That, 
I believe that for a freshman is the scariest thought in her representative to do this after article. wining a close election against a Polls will always remain strong incumbent means that inanimate factors to consider in Tim must have agonized about and among a complex set of 
Krista Smith Guest Columnist 
Suleeta drove me crazy. She was a young woman with three children who was escaping an abusive husband, and I was her caseworker. We just couldn't seem to connect with reasons why each of us did the things we did. I admired Suleeta's courage to leave her abusive husband with only a minimal education and three kids to support, but I failed to understand her refusal to apply for food stamps or welfare to assist her family. 
We sent around and around about this and other issues be­cause we came to our decisions from different perspectives. During my work with Suleeta I found myself seeing the problems and the future from her point of view, and my initial solutions no longer seemed to be the best answer. 
In three months working as a Holy Cross Associate for the Catholic Community Services of Colorado Springs I came to see 

Kevin J. Smant Guest Columnist 
We all know now that the Bush imperialist war in the Persian Gulf polarized-yeah, viciously divided-our country and our world. By plunging us into this maelstrom of violence, Bush separated Arab from Jew, our Iraqi brethren from the rest of the world, and peacemakers from warmongers. 
And so darkness reigns. But we can rejoice that at least some voices of peace, justice and moderation remain. At least some have tried to cool the ungodly passions fueled by this cruel war, to bring the people of this world back to the altar of reason and logical discourse. Many of these brave souls have made themselves known here at Notre Dame in these pages. 
Indeed, at the outset of the I truly wish that I had been
• able to complete my year in
f Colorado. I know the learning process which has begun in me
' 

would only have been intensi­fied. There would have been good days as well as bed; but, all in aU, I feel that the benefits I would have gained make it all worthwhile. 
fl 
In three short months many people at work, at the soup kitchen, and most importantly 
in my community came to mean 
a great deal to me. I hope that I many of my viewpoints change. In each of these jobs I learned major decisions, like whether was able to be of some help to I lost some of my naivete and a great deal about myself and the men of the women got the each of these groups, but more 
gained a new respect for those what I value. I saw the human upstairs bedroom. Over time importantly and selfishly, I struggling to make it through side of homelessness; and our personalities emerged and appreciate what they have the day on the streets. instead of just looking on as I we let our desired be known. given me; a new and realistic 
had in the past, I got to reach outlook on life. 
In my job I had a variety of out and be a part of their lives. This outspokenness created There will be a second appli­tasks. I assisted people in need times of great happiness and cation process for the Holy to find housing, work, food, or So far I've talked about the joy as we came to know each Cross Associates Program. For financial help; I also worked at service aspect of volunteering, other and grow in the differ­more information and ap­our local soup kitchen and but another major part of the ences between us; but is also plications, contact Mary Ann drop-in center for the homeless. experience is community. created tensions when one's Roemer, CSC at 239-5293 or I was beginning to work with Living a simple lifestyle with desires clashed with another's. Mary Ann White, 239-5521. 
the adoption agency of Catholic five people in a new town I learned that we all came to Deadline for applications is Community Services when a certainly isn't easy. Decision­the Holy Cross Associates Aprill7.relapse of leukemia forced me making at our house in the program for different reasons, to return home for medical beginning was so apathetic that and my reason was no better or Krista Smith is a 1990 treatment. we tossed a coin to make a worse than anyone else's graduate ofNotre Dame 

deration were welcome during debate 
con ct, a graduate student wisely informed us that the "the war system itself will emerge from the rubble and desert dust as the victor, strengthened by the belief that weapons, vio­lence and killing will provide the answers." 
An undergraduate subse­quently provided us with a calm reminder that George Bush and Saddam Hussein are both "megalomaniacs who think they are playing war games ... George Bush jumped at the chance to test his guns on , breathing people." And another student under the Golden Dome added to the calls for modera­tion by pointing out that the 
U.S. "is asking for it by waging a war when the whole world is on a hair trigger, ready to an­nihilate itself." 
But it was our elders who truly distinguished themselves as men of peace in all facets, especially in their language. It is they who set the example for the rest of us-especially one of love and charity towards the President with whom they dis­agree. Father Robert Griffin kindly reminded Mr. Bush, for example, that " ... you are the sponsor who has almost single­handedly unleashed the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse upon the world ...Sending the Four Horsemen against Saddam is to bring this planet the risk of the nuclear winter." 
An even more eloquent man of peace was Father Patrick Gaffney. "I view our headlong rush into this massive war," he told us, "as ultimately destined to wreak untold suffering, re­sentment and enmity through­out the region ... our actions are laying the groundwork for global havoc that will certainly last far beyond the day when our President decides to declare our Pyrrhic military victory over Iraq... duplicitous, self-in­terested intervention...our ut­terly shameless, hypocritical government..." Then, of course, came his masterful conclusion. "Let us have an end to fruitless name-calling and anticipate that what we inflict on others we also inflict upon ourselves." 
Quite right. And the last couple of months have certainly shown just where the name­calling and extremism can be found. 
Kevin J. Smant is a graduate student in History. 




------------~----------------------------------------­


Accent 
page 10 Tuesday,Apnl9, 1991 



Amnesty International Week 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's celebrate Amnesty International's 30th Anniversary 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH hope to make Amnesty on this rights abuses. While here he Accent Writer campus active and alive as has set up a consulting firm to well." aid West African Sub-Saharan 
"It ts better to light one candle Though each event is directed nations as they develop stable than to curse the dark­toward a specific aspect of hu­and diversified economies. ness, "claims one Amnesty In­man rights abuses, the week as Wednesday's panel discussion, ternational pamphlet. a whole is a vivid depiction of "International Perspectives on 
"Write a letter; save a life," what Amnesty represents, what Human Rights," will follow urges another. it has done in the past, and along the same lines as NO 
For thirty years Amnesty In­what it wishes to accomplish in students and faculty offer ternational has fought to end the near future. insight into issues facing their human rights abuses across the The week officially began last native countries. It will take world. Struggling to make a night with a screening of the place at 7:30 p.m. in the Center difference, the 500,000 individ­film "Forgotten Prisoners: The for Social Concerns. uals in this organization have Amnesty Files," which originally The four speakers include: brought a light of hope to all aired as a Public Broadcasting Father William Lewers, law prisoners of conscience. System (PBS) special. By show­professor and director of the 
1991 marks a year of both ing the film the group hoped to Center for Civil and Human celebration and rededication. offer an historical presentation Rights, Lies! Fichardt of South The group celebrates the ac­of Amnesty International and Africa, Carlos Reynolds of complishments that have taken the challenges it faces. Panama, and Xia Quae of place in these thirty years while The title itself has historical China. recognizing that there is still significance, for when Amnesty According to Fuller, although much more to do. came into existence in 1961, its each country has its own diffi­
founder, British lawyer Peter culties, the problems of each'A one day write-a­Benson, published a moving usually have a common thread. article in London's "The Ob­It may seem like there are too
than at Notre Dame 
server" titled "The Forgotten many issues to deal with, but Prisoners." His article outlined "we have to begin somewhere." 
may not seem 
human rights abuses which Watching films and listeningpowerful, but when were taking place at that time, to speakers will result in a more described the fledgling organi­aware group of people, but
joined by a multitude 
zation, and urged individuals to Amnesty attests that changes do their part. cannot be made until unified
of letters from across 
"The success of the 1961 action is taken. Thursday'sthe world it just might Amnesty Campaign depends on write-a-thon provides a how sharply and powerfully it is valuable opportunity to make a
do the job.' 
possible to rally public opinion" difference. he wrote. This idea is still Amnesty International cen­
In commemoration of this prevalent in Amnesty philoso­tralizes around the idea that triumphant yet somber an­phy today. informing world leaders that niversary, the South Bend Tonight, Yomi Kongi, will human rights abuses exist and Amnesty chapter, which present a more specific view of putting pressure on govern­presently consists solely of the role of Amnesty Interna­ments that violate the United Notre Dame and Saint Mary's tional by discussing "Human Nations Universal Declaration students, has designated this Rights Violations in Nigeria" at of Human Rights will result in a week "Human Rights Week." 7 p.m. in the Library Lounge. change. 
For each night the group has Kongi was born in Nigeria, According to Egon Larson, planned a different activity fo­but has spent much of his life author of "A Flame in Barbed cusing on the role of Amnesty gong back and forth between Wire," the purpose of letter­International in today's world his native land and the United writing is to create a "powerful and the difference each individ­States. After receiving his un­barrage of worldwide protests ual can make. dergraduate and Masters de­impressing on the dictators that the December 10, Human can. Tables will be set up in the 
"We're trying to tell the cam­gree at the University of Okla­international public opinion Rights Day. Dooley Room in Lafortune from pus that Amnesty International homa, he returned to Nigeria to [will] not let them get away with While the groups coordinator, 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and in the [world-wide organization] is teach at the Polytechnical Col­acts of injustice." Kelly Reuba, felt there was a Sorin room from 8 to 10 p.m. active and alive," said Steve lege of Ibaden. This week's write-a-thon is steady flow of letter-writing, she A one day write-a-thon at Fuller, the group's current He taught there for only six the second of its kind this year. said she would like to see more Notre Dame may not seem Campaign Coordinator and up­years, for in 1984 he came back Two hundred letter were writ­participation. "Everyone can powerful, but when joined by a -coming Co-Coordinator. "We to America because of human ten when the frrst took place on take ten minutes or fifteen multitude of letters from across 
minutes out of their day to write the world it just might do the a letter," she said. job. "When thousands of people 
"It seems like it doesn't make write letters to protest human a difference," Reuba continued, rights abuses, the chances of "but Amnesty wouldn't be change become much greater," around if it didn't." claims the organization. 
"You have to have faith that it Tartar Gun and XYZ Affair will work," added Fuller. will conclude the week with a 
In February of 1990, South performance at fieldhouse Mall Bend's Amnesty chapter was at 4 p.m. The groups expressed fortunate enough to see con­hopes that while students enjoy crete results of their efforts. the bands, they keep in mind After three years of consistent the thousands of people im­letter-writing on behalf of a prisoned and often tortured for South African prisoner of con­their beliefs. science, Mutile Henry Fazzie, he For thirty years Amnesty In­was released. ternational has fought in ac­
According to Fuller, "It's from cordance with its mandate to the little things that you realize work specifically for: that you are effective; it's the •the release of prisoners of little things that you have to live conscience-men, women, and on." children imprisoned for their 
Fuller, like most Amnesty beliefs, color, sex, ethnic origin, members, keeps a realistic language or religion, provided frame of mind even during such they have neither used nor ad­times of rejoicing. He cites vocated violence; Fazzie's letter to the group •fair and prompt trials for all which thanked them for their political prisoners; dedication, but reminded them •an end to torture and execu­that human rights are still be­tions in all cases. ing violated. But there is much more to do. 
"The little gains give you a Amnesty International will focus on a bigger picture; while continue to fight until human they're nice, they're not rights abuses become obsolete enough," Fuller said. in all parts of the world. Until 
Amnesty invites everyone to then they say, "You can make a participate for as long as they difference. Join us." 


r 
Tuesday, April 9, 1991 The Observer Page 11 

question mark and it is at the through spring practice, even fully good winters, but there is In the end, Holtz was guard­present time. The quarterback though he had some spurs no doubt that we will give Mike edly optimistic. 
Spring 
has got to have a good year if scraped from his ankles." Miller a good, strong look. I'd ~I think that it Is possible, if continued from page 16 we're going to have a chance. ~we'll try Adrian Jarrell and also like to think that our sec­everybody progresses like we rusher, and Devon McDonald, Hopefully Jake Kelchner will Ray Griggs or Martin Scruggs at ondary has a chance to be very, would like to see them, that the Boo Williams, Bryant Young and come back, and the indications flanker," continued Holtz. UTony very good. LeShane Saddler had contribution by freshmen will Dean Liddell all have potential. are that he will try. Brian Smith, Lake Dawson and an outstanding winter pro­be very minimal this season," 
~Quarterback Is always a big McDougal should also go William Pollard also had aw-gram." declared Holtz. 
The Observer accepts c!asaWieda every business day from 10 a.m 10 3:30p.m. a11he Noire Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline lor neXI·day claaaWiedala :Jp.m. AU class~loda mus1 be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cenla per character per day, Including all

Classifieds 
spaces. 

SUMMER JOBS  Students wanted to sublease apt.  PREGNANT?  E  To a certain freshman male... there  
NOTICES  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  for summer. RENT NEGOTIABLE. Blaize x1654  Whoops! Is "Our Baby" growing in your tummy by accident? Loving  s I  Is a lovely blue eyed blond from Farley who Is looking for her black,  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR  doctor and his stay-at-home wife  R  lacy 34C bra. It has been missing  
TYPING AVAILABLE  LAKE PLACID. CALL  Students wanted to sublease apt.  would like to discuss Baby's future  E  since september. Do you know  
287-4082  1-800-343-8373.  for summer. RENT NEGOTIABLE.  with you. Please call collect  where it is? She has been lost  
Blaize x1654  anytime. (219) 462-5250 Michael &  Senior Bar•Friday•4t12  without lt....or it is loose without it?  
FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM  EARN $300-$500 PER WEEK  Debra.  
$1000 in just one week. Earn up to  READING BOOKS AT HOME.  c  ToKCM....  
$1000 for your campus  CALL t-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340.  SUBLETTOR AND/OR RENTOR  I got it.  H  So green is your signature color.  
organization. Plus a chance at  NEEDED  Come. And be my baby.  R  What about blush and bashful?  
$5000 more! This program works!  HELPI!!NEED A ROOMATE FOR  Turtle Creek Apts, 2-bdrm  0  Let's face it. .. the only thing the  
No investment needed. Call 1-800­ CASTLE PT. NEXT YEAR-CALL  sublet from June -August  N  bridesmaids require is a bloody  
932-0528 Ext. 50  DOUG X2051  and/or share lease from January­ ANALYZING THE WAR  I  beer tent and 20 ounce mugs. The  
May call x3828  VIDEO SERIES: 'War on the  c  rest is inconsequential. P.S cute  
$$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg.  American AuPair nanny specialists.  Homefront," tonight, 7:00pm, CSC.  boys would be nice tool!  
hours 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 233-2342  Carefully screened families. Full benefits, airfare, good wages,  FOR SALE  Discussion to follow.  0 E  TOP 5 JOANNE JEN QUOTES:  
corner of NO Ave. & Howard  Nanny support system, no fees.  ADOPTION: Loving couple, doctor  s  1Who's IRIS?  
Local interview-call Joan 616-684­ sofa, luv seat, carpet  and teacher, longing to share our  I  2.Did they move Thanksgiving  
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award  1451.  window seats (Fl. & Gr.)  love with newborn. We'll give your  R  to a Saturday?  
Winning Hotel, has rooms for  X1583  baby a caring, warm, and happy  E  3.11 the world was in a state  
Graduation weekend. Located at  home. Expenses paid. Call Carol  of starvation I would be so  
Toll Road Exit H92 Elkhart (12 miles  CINCINNATI-I need a ride this  1990 CAVALIER Z24, it. blue, low  and Frank collect 212-874-3537.  Senior Bar•Friday•4t12  hungry!  
from South Bend) Minimum stay 2  weekend!!! If your going and want  miles, sharp. Call271-8920.  4What night is the New  
nights with $110 deposit per room.  company and money for gas,  LEARN TO SKYDIVE!  Classes  c  Year's Eve party on?  
Sond letter with deposit to 3011  please call Kristen at283-2927.  Men's SUperlightweight 19" Bianchi  every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00 am.  H  5.1 didn't know that Sally  
Belvedere Rd. Elkhart, IN 46514.  12-speed. Hardly used. 3 years  Train and jump the same day.  R  Jesse came on the same  
old. Was $350. Now $200. Call  Modern equipment and training  0  time as Saturday Night Live.  
TUTOR WITH PH.D. AND 10 YRS.  EARN $300/$500 PER WEEK  258-0752.  programs. Licensed instructors.  N  Now that you're a year older,  
UNIVERSITY TEACHING  READING BOOKS AT HOME.  FFI call Skydive Hastings (616)  I  maybe you won't be so  
EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST  1-615-473-7440 EXT B  For Sale: 1982VW Rabbit  948-2665.  c  CLUELESS!! HAPPY 20th!  
BUSINESS & ECON. STUDENTS IN  Great condition, new battery,  Love-Kar,Suz,Mar,House,BBJ,  
ECON & MATH COURSES. 272­ STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?  tOOk miles. $950 OBO.  To the 'PULSATING DAVE  0  Amy B/L,Griff,KT,  
3153.  I'm looking for 1-3 roommates to  Call Jeff @1786.  MACHINE',  E  Michelle,Stacey,& the  
share a Campus View apartment for  Happy 21st Birthday  s  rest of 2A Siegfried  
Professional, fast, accurate typing  the summer. I'm interning in the  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  From the Four Guys That Keep it  I  
done lor your term papers, reports,  Bend, so I won't be around much.  Buying a car? Good rates. Call me  Oiled. May you sleep well and  R  $CHICAGOLAND AREA JOBSI !$  
resumes. etc. Reasonable rate.  Call John at 283-3574.  for a quote 9:30-6:00,289-1993.  dream of large women.  E  Graduates.. .full-time PERMANENT,  
Call or leave message at 299-1737. Wanted: A bicycle in goodILOST/FOUND I condition. Ca11Nicolex4049. LOST: A Minolta Camera in a black I FOR RENT  Office near campus. 89 GEO Spectrum Great Gas Mileage­45/city 50/highway Still has factory warranty  Win a free Mac SEI!!!I The Mystery Mac made an appearance on the 8th.  Senior Bar-Friday-4/12 c H R  also TEMPORARY office support jobs available. Call INTERVIEWING CONSULTANTS, INC. at (312)263-171 0, ask for Cathy Giambarberee or call  
Eddie Bauer pouch. Believed to  excellent buy, call Pat  Did you see it? If you did,  0  Lisa at 284-5112 lor an applicatlon.  
have been lost 3/28191 in 127  GRAD. WEEKEND  288-5878  remember where and register  N  
Niewland. If found please call Scott  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  to win it at the Hesburgh  I  Look, WOLFI It works! Here's your  
0 273-9355. REWARD!!!!!  219-291-7153.  Library Computer Lab this  c  personal, as promised. Next time I'll  
3 Bedroom House  TICKETS  week. The drawing will be held on the 18th at the  0  try for a more creative message, so keep reading your trusty  
Found: A gold braclet near the  Close to Campus  Fieldhouse Mall.  E  Observer-You never know when  
Dome. A name and date are  $555 Month + Deposit  I NEED 2 GRAD TICKETS. CALL  s  your name may appear.  
inscribed on the braclet. To claim  Ten Month Lease  JOHN X2325.  YOU MUST BE PRESENT  I  
please call Ajay at  232-3616  TO WIN!!  R  
5749 or 287-4869.  E  Valentines  
One-way air from Chi. to LA. 5/11.  
LOST: a navy blue windbreaker, with 'Mountainside Community Pool Staff" on it between LaFortune & Asher on Mon 3125. Be real cool and return it to Jeff x1873.  HOUSES FOR LEASE 91-92 Yr. 3-7 Bedroom, Furnished, Reasonable Rates. Call at 232-1776. An attractive studio In lovely old  $110, x4243 PAUL SIMON tix! Great seats. Apr. 16. Best offer. 273-9349  It's coming­coming­coming-SHAKESPEARE IN THEODORE'S!!!  Senior Bar-Friday-4/12 c H R  Voice needed. Our singer Is graduating. Auditions? Call Dennis x3274 (the Generics)  
mansion near N.D. $300 now  Need 2 grad llx for Grandma and  See "The Comedy of Errors" April  0  
LOST: I left a Limited bag In the Main Circle late on Monday night. If you found It, please call me at: 284­4112.  renting for summer &fall91 call 2879624 Roomate needed for summer  Grandpa before they kick. Ron, x3504. I need two tickets to Paul Simon (not bleachers).  26 & 27 at 8 p.m. at everybody's favorlte venue. THEODORE'S!!! FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305.  N I c 0  SJ, IDWARQ'S HAll FORUM Father Oliver Willlams, esc  
REWARDI HELPIHELPIHELPIHELPIHELPI  session. Call nm M-F at 233-8461.  Call Brigid H284-5239.  SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR  E s I  Associate Provost apeabon  
I lost my cross in Gym 1 of the ACC on Wednesday March 27. I left it there after 5 p.m. It's a silver cross on a black rope band. It has GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. A REWARD IS OFFERED. If found please call Mike at 1788. Thanks.  Best Locations, Best Houses, Have your own yard. 233-9947. Quaint furnished apts. near NO. for summer or fall semesters. -effeclency $225 -1 bedroom $260  FOR SALE PAUL SIMON TICKETS FOR APRIL 16TH SHOW. GREAT SEATS. ROW 4 AND 13. CALL X 3790 For sale: Univega Super 10 Bycycle...recenUy tuned up with  HOUSING/ROOMMATE "INFORMATION EXCHANGE" STUDENTS: Going home for the summer? Need a place to stash your stuff? We have the place for you! JOY'S SELF LOCK STORAGE  R E Senior Bar-Friday-4/12 ENGINEERS' WEEK TREASURE HUNT.  "My Recent Visit With Nelson Mandela" Wedoeeday, AprU 10 7p.m.  
-2 bedroom $360  new tire and rim. Excellent for both  272-2400  IF YOU MISSED THE  SI. IDWARQ'S HAJJ. FORUM  
LOST: KEYSI 3 keys on two attached rings-one room key, one mail key (H139) and one padlock. Lost 4-2 possibly in 117 Haggar. Please call X4092 if you can help. LOST: IN OR NEAR LOFTUS, A DIAMOND RING OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF YOU FOUND IT, PLEASE CALL 257­ deposit, references 616­483-9572 Female roomate(s) needed to sublet TurUe Creek apt. for summer. Call Jackie x4121 or Meg x4054 Moving to NYC/ or Summer Internship? Female non-smkr roommate needed to share large  rec. and serious riding. Best offer. Call barney 287-9670 DESPERATELY NEED 2 GRAD TICKETS! Call Jerry x1069 One way ticket Chicago to Newark 5/16 -must be female. $100 negot. 272-7727  STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? I'm looking for 1-3 roommates to share a Campus View apartment for the summer. I'm interning in the Bend, so I won't be around much. Call John at 283-3574. Hi  SIGNS CLUE HI THINGS ARE OFTEN FOUND BELOW THE SURFACE. THE PROBABILI1Y HERE IS 2/3. CLUE H2 HE TALKS TO 2 AND HE'LL TALK TO YOU. Stephen John Brown, Ohhh! Hiii Paaallliiieeelll Happy Birthday Butter! Although  Guatemalan Imports Saint Mary's College  
8164. I left my glasses in the Physics 222 Lab on the third floor of Nleuland on March26.  mnhttn apt-safe, great neighbrhd, near Central Park, SUbway; Price Negoc. Contact: Linda Filar (NO '90) (212) 968-3937 on wkdys; or write: 711 Amsterdam Ave, 25M, NYC, NY 10025. Apt available mid­May.  PERSONALS Resumes....Professional quality 272-5667. (Tom Williams)  ROSES FOR LIFE!! ROSES FOR LIFEII ROSES FOR LIFE!! ROSES FOR LIFE!! ROSES FOR LIFE!! ROSES FOR LIFE!! ROSES FOR LIFE!!  we never did find that superlative, I want you to know that I feel it everyday! ·sunny day, at the Acme, I think It was the 4th of July!" I love you Stephen..."like the stars above." Lizbo P.S. Kick butt in Bookstore today! I!  LeMans Half AprilS-12 10 am-5 pm  
If you have any Information, please call mall I am blindwithoutthem!! Nicole x4907  Condo for summer rental 2 bdrm 1 mi. from NO 272-5708  IBM. COMMODORE, OR APPLE. Cash paid for all makes of Computers and Software. Computer  OOGA LA LA: WOMEN BEWARE THE 'PULSATING DAVE MACHINE  To all those women who have contageous smiles..and even to  Purses, hats, belts, shirts, vests, other  
HELPIII  HELPIII  HELPII!  2 Bdrm. 2 Bath Oak Hill Condo.  software for IBM and IBM compatible, Commodore or Apple,  IS 21 TODAY! CALL HIM AND EXPRESS YOUR FEARS AT 1791.  those who wish they did... remember to wish  accessories, and  
I left an orange suade jacket In the Loftus Auditorium after the Physio exam on 4-4. My 10 is In the pocket. If you found It, ploase call Dianne @ 2467.  $650 unfurnished, $800 furnished. Avail. for SUmmer and 91-92 School yr. Call Michelle at X4970. TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE  $2 each. WESTERN ELECTRONICS 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550 NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and  The 'PULSATING DAVE MACHINE' is 21 today. Come see him pulsate at his bookstore game today at 4pm, Stepan 6.  MIKE HORTATSOS a happy 22nd birthday today!!! Happy belated 22nd birthday to Turtle Creek's litUe brown man...NADER SAMI.  traditional Guatemalan clothing and weavings.  
IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER 3­ trade, gold, silver, diamonds,  c  
Lost keys on U of 0 keychain around NOH, library, or 02. If found call Amy X3391 WANTED  4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1MILE NORTH OF NO 2773097 Hawaii beachfront CONDO, sleeps 4, 11/28-12/5/91,$500, mlns. from Hula Bowl & Honolula. Call234­5041/233-4408.  jewelry, guns, lV's, VCR's, camcorders, cameras, air conditioners, microwaves, tools, Nintendo's, computers. OZARK TRADING POST 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550  H R 0 N I c 0  ToMLC.... so you want to break parietals before we graduate? Who will be the lucky man? Tim, John, Pedro,Emelio,Fonnie, Mike, Kevin,or will it be Rual from DC? You know you want it! I  A % of Sales goes back to Guatemala to buy books &school supplies for children.  

The Observer Tuesday, April 9, 1991
page 12 
Chicago beats Minnesota 6-5, seizes 2-1 series lead 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Ed Belfour made the most of his second chance. So did the Chicago Blackhawks. 
Belfour, the NHL's top goal­tender during the regular sea­son, was pulled late in the first period Monday night after al­lowing four goals on 22 shots. His replacement, Dominik Hasek, quickly allowed another goal as the Minnesota North Stars took a 5-2 lead after one period in Game 3 of their Norris Division semifmal series. 

But the Blackhawks scored two early power-play goals in the second period to get hack in the game. Belfour got hack in, too -he replaced Hasek at 
8:40 of the middle period and was perfect the rest of the way, stopping 19 shots. 
Steve Thomas and Jeremy Roenick then scored third-pe­riod goals and Chicago killed off three Minnesota power plays in the last 13 minutes for a 6-5 victory and a 2-1 lead in the hest-of-7 series. 
Red Wings 5, Blues 2 

DETROIT-The Red Wings turned to a pair of 19-year-olds to provide the go-ahead goal early in the third period. 
Mike Sillinger, Detroit's top pick in 1989, sent a breakout pass to Keith Primeau._ the Wings' top pick last June. Primeau went in on a break­away and beat Vincent Riendeau at 1:12, breaking a 1­1 tie. Jimmy Carson and Steve Chiasson added goals to make it 4-1 before Gino Cavallini's goal 
Scoreboard 

with 1:21 remammg cut the Blues' deficit to 4-2. 
But Kevin Miller, who tied the game late in the second period, scored into an empty net with 18 seconds left to ice the win. 
"We played a solid, hard-hit­ting game tonight," Red Wings coach Bryan Murray said. "We had some hard forechecking tonight, which we didn't have in St. Louis. That is what set up most of our chances." 
Oilers 4, Flames 3 
EDMONTON, Alberta -Joe Murphy's goal with 14 seconds remaining in regulation gave the Edmonton Oilers a stunning 4-3 victory over the Calgary Flames Monday night and a 2-1 lead in their Smythe Division semifinal series. 
The Flames led 3-2 after two periods but Glenn Anderson took Craig Simpson's pass at the Flames' blue line, went in alone and beat Mike Vernon with a backhander at 9:47 of the third period to tie the game. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Resuhs from Bookstore Basketball XX: Monday, April 8 1991 

Intimidate and Dominate del. 5 Slow Guys Who Can, Score, 21·13 Shirts del. IV+ I, 21·8 San Induced Chaos del. Guess Who's Hera and Why?, 21·15 Shoot to Thrill del. A Big Man, a Fat Man..., 21·19 5 Woman who don, like del. Team Rawls, lorlah 4 Students and an American Studies Major del. Big Brown Bob..., 21· 7 The Flounders del. 5 Guys who decided not to leave School•. ., 21·10 5 Orange Whps del. Panama Frank and the Big Band~os. 21-7 5 Guys who aren't afraid of wearing Tutus del. Phi Alpha Theta Mu, 21-15 Satan's Nightmare del. Joe Raven & his Friends, 21·16 Box and One del. Gauchattes, 21-17 A Hairy Mexican and his 4 Meatless Tacos del. Thank God the Girls are Good, 21·11 The Bad Boys del. We can, play a 2·3 Zone, 21·13 Estimated Prophets del. 5 Guys who like a little Lip In their Mag, 21-10 The Piezomatlc Heads del. Line Stratchin' Monster Flathead Cats, 21·15 Ben-wa Basketballs del. Off, 21·9 Skez, Smukln, Conan and 2 other Guys... del. Skid Row Desert Eagles, 21·15 Coach Phelps: Oxymoron del. Dogs of War, 21·5 5 Guards who leave the ballhandllng to others del. Lt. Sam Walsh & the Orlando Magic, 21·7 Mermaid Pate del. The Team which none greater, lorleh Dick Ecostolka and the Rouge Ecoterrorlst Burrhoheads del. The Village People, 21-4 The Good, the Bad, and the Laundry del. Warrior~~, 21·11 Word to your Mother del. Where's Greg?, 21·16 No Blood, No Foul del. The Flhhy 5, 21·3 Crime doesn, Pay del. Air Bash and Ground Support, 21-16 Box the Corrpass del. The Falla she owes II, 21-4 Bababing del. The Scuds, 21·20 Anthony's Traveller~~ del. Beauties & the Beast, 21­
9 
V's Revenge del. Team411, 21·1 5 Fish that saved Pittsburgh del. 4 Guys who think Nlpsy... , 21·10 Coach's Fourteen Hour Club del. Kamikaze Lettovars, 21-6 Team 169 del. The Buckeye, 21·14 Mojo-rlsln' Express del. Dirty Deeds done Dirt Cheap, 21·8 The Annoying Men del. Hustle...Notl, 21-10 Come and sea our 6000 Gallon Lung del. John Denver and the Muppets, 21·7 Wowl There's no Fine... del. Bo, Luke..., 21·3 
NHL PLAYOFF RESULTS 
All Times EDT DIVISION SEMIFINALS (Best-of·7) Wednellday, April 3 Hartford 5, Boston 2 Montreal7, Buffalo 5 New Jersey 3, Pittsburgh 1 N.Y. Rangers 2, Washington 1 Thuraday, April 4 Minnesota 4, Chicago 3, OT Datroh 6, St. Louis 3 Edmonton 3, Calgary 1 Vancouver 6, Los Angeles 5 Friday, AprU 5 Boston 4, Hartford 3 Montreal 5, Buffalo 4 Pittsburgh 5, New Jersey 4, OT Washington 3, N.Y. Ranger~~ 0 Saturday, April II Calgary 3, Edmonton 1, sarles tied 1·1 Chicago 5, Minnesota 2 St. Louis 4, Datroh 2 Los Angeles 3, Vancouver 2, OT, sarles tied 1-1 Sunday, April 7 Buffalo 5, Montreal 4, Montreal leads series 2·1· Boston 6, Hartford 3, Boston leads series 2·1 
N.Y. 
Rangers 6, Washington 0, N.Y. Rangers lead series 2·1 Pittsburgh 4, New Jersey 3, Pittsburgh leads series 2·1 Monday, April 8 Detroh 5, St. Louis 2, Derrett leads series 2·1 Chicago 6, Minnesota 5, Chicago leads series 2·1 Calgary at Edmonton, (n) Los Angeles at Vancouver, (n) Tueaday, April II Montreal at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Boston at Hartford, 7:35p.m. 

N.Y. 
Rangers at Washington, 7:35p.m. Pittsburgh at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. Wedneaday, April 10 St. Louis at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Chicago at Minnesota, 8:05p.m. Calgary at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. Los Angeles at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. Thuraday, April 11 Hartford at Boston, 7:35p.m. Buffalo at Montreal, 7:35 p.m., ff necessary New Jersey at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Washington at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. Friday, April 12 Minnesota at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Detroh at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. Edmonton at Calgary, 9:35p.m. Vancouver at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 



5 Guys who would surrender to Bush anyday del. 5 Future Grads who hope..., 21·8 Reverend Dimmesdale del. Pussboil, 21·14 The New Kids on the Block del. Team 596, 21·3 
The 5 Guys who celebrated... del. 4 guys who won, pass..., 21-15 Schedule lor Bookstore Basketball XX: Tuesday, Aprll9, 1991 (Teams, court, and starting time (p.m.)) 
All the Presidents Men vs. Four Consecutives and a Blind Man, BK 9, 4:00 We love Ermgart vs. Meatless Baked Ziti, BK 9, 4:45 Saddam, Miaml...vs. 4 Misogynists..., BK 9, 5:30 1991: The Year of the Slow White Guy vs. J Crew, BK9, 6:15 4 Musty Pehs vs. Barstool Blues, BK 1o, 4:00 Help 911 vs. New Kids, BK 10,4:45 Arnold's Rug vs. Team 475, BK 10, 5:30 5 Man Acoustical Jam vs. HO's, BK 1o. 6:15 Gina's Pizza vs. Saddam, Pate Raddix.. ., ST 1. 4:00 Liz h or Lose h vs. Ben-wa Basketballs, ST 1, 4:45 We could beat Butler vs. Hey Mo, I'm getting..., ST 1, 5:30 2 Joes, Chris..., vs. 3 Chicks, 2 Shorts... , ST 1, 6:15 Two Majors and two other Dads vs. Transfers, ST 2, 4:00 The Navarre Nocturnals vs. Power of the Triangle, ST 2, 4:45 We can score quicker... vs. Psych 5, ST 2. 5:30 Mke's Team vs. Cease & Dismount ST 2, 6:15 4 Genuines & Generic vs. Nelsons, Ross Brothers..., ST 3, 4:00 Bob Slobotnik vs. Struggle with our Nama, ST 3, 4:45 Fighting Amish vs. Gus' Wrecking Service, ST 3, 5:30 No Clue vs. Remod, ST 3, 6:15 Development Dogs Ill vs. As Long as We don't..., ST 4, 4:00 Ready...Break vs. 5 Guys who Celebrated..., ST 4, 4:45 Victor Klam vs. Palmer's Boy, ST 4, 5:30 Omar's Camel Jockeys vs. Scuds that Nev8f Hit, ST 4, 6:15 Gooky Train vs. Still Buzzln', ST 5, 4:00 Team 587 vs. Pezio Melrlc Heads, ST 5, 4:45 Power Brokers vs. 70's Preservation Society, ST 5 
5:30 
Shamma Lamma vs. TriufTllhant Return. ST 5, 6:15 Julius & 4 others vs. The Pulsating Dave 
Machine..., ST 6, 4:00 Saddam, 3 ROTC...vs. MXMXM-M'3, St 6, 4:45 Annoying Men vs. Country Western Afros, ST 6, 5:30 Mast..-s vs. Frank Rizzo & 4..., ST 6, 6:45 
BASEBALL STANDINGS 
All nmes EDT AMERICAN LEAGUE Eaat Dlvlalon 

w  L  Pet.  GB  
Boston  1  0  1.000 - 
Datroh  1  0  1.000­ 
Milwaukee  1  0  1.000­ 
Baltimore  0  1  .000  1  
Cleveland  0  1  .000  1  
NewYork  0  1  .000  1  
Toronto  0  1  .000  1  
West Dlvlalon  
w  L  PeL  GB  
Chicago 1 Kansas Chy 1 Callfomla 0  0 0 0  1.000 1.000 .000  1/2  
Minnesota  0  0  .000  1/2  
Oakland  0  0  .000  1/2  
Seattle  0  0  .000  1/2  
Texas  0  1  .000  1  
Monday'• Gamea  
Detroh 6, New York 4  
Boston 6, Toronto 2  
Chicago 9, Bahimore 1  

Kansas C~y 4, Cleveland 2 Milwaukee 5, Texas 4 Only games scheduled Tuesday'• Gamea Boston (Harris 13·9) at Toronto (Key 13-7), 7:35 p.m. 
Cleveland (Candlonl 15-11) at Kansas City (Boddlcker 17-8), 8:35p.m. CaiKornla (Finley 18·9) at Seattle (Hanson 18·9), !0:35p.m. Minnesota (Morris 15-18) at Oakland (Stewart 22· 11),11:05p.m. Only games scheduled Wedneeday'a Gamea New York at Detroit, 1:35 p.m. Cleveland at Kansas Chy, 5:05p.m. Boston at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Chicago at Bahimore, 7:35 p.m. Milwaukee at Texas, 8:35p.m. Calffornla at Seattle, 10:05 p.m. Minnesota at Oakland, 10:05 p.m. 
All Times EDT  
NATIONAL  LEAGUE  
Eaat  Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Monlreal  1  0  1.000  
NewYork  1  0  .000  
Chicago  o  0  .000  1/2  
St. Louis Philadelphia  0 0  0 1  .000 .000  1/2 1  
Phtsburgh  0  1  .000  1  
Weal Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Cincinnati  1  0  1.000  
Atlanfa Los Angeles  o 0  0 0  .000 .000  1/2 1/2  
San Diego  0  0  .000  If.!  
San Francisco 0  0  .000  1/2  
Houston  0  1  .000  1  
Monday'• Gamea  
Cincinnati 6, Houston 2  

New York 2. Philadelphia 1 Montreal 7, Pittsburgh 0 Only games scheduled Tueaday'a Gamea Philadelphia (Grimsley 3-2) at New York (Viola 20­12), 1:40 p.m. St. Louis (B.Smhh 9-8) at Chicago (Jackson 6-6), 2:20p.m. Montreal (Nabhoiz 6-2) at Pittsburgh (Walk 7-5), 7:35p.m. Los Angeles (Belcher 9-9) at Atlanta (Leibrandt 9· 11), 7:40p.m. San Francisco (Burkett 14-7) at San Diego (Whttson 14·9), 10:35 p.m. Only games scheduled Wedneaday'a Gamee St. Louis at Chicago, 2:20 p.m. Montreal at Pittsburgh, 3:05 p.m. Philadelphia at New York, 7:40 p.m. Los Angeles at Atlanta, 7:40 p.m. Houston at Cincinnati, 7:35 p.m. San Francisco at San Diego, 10:05 p.m. 
DART COURSES CLOSED SECTIONS AS OF 7:00 P.M. 4/8191 
ACCT 231 01 0265 ACCT 231 11 0275 ACCT 231 15 0279 ACCT 231 16 0280 AFAM 368 01 3265 ENGL 328A 01 2794 ENGL 399A 01 2567 ENGL 415C 01 2802 ENGL 426F 01 2804 ENGL 425 01 2807 ENGL 428A 01 2810 ENGL 432A 01 2811 ENGL 435 01 2812 ENGL 435A 01 2813 ENGL 440 01 1256 ENGL 475A 01 2819 ENGL 491 01 2824 ENGL 494 01 2825 ENGL 4958 01 2826 GOVT 343T 01 2853 GOVT 401 01 2851 LAW 676A 01 1297 LAW 691A 01 3398 MGT 231 04 1478 MUS 226 01 1557 PHIL 246 01 1672 soc 313 01 3031 soc 342 01 2540 soc 374 01 3032 THEO 246 01 0153 
BASEBALL LINESCORES 
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
New York  102 100 000-4  10  
Detroh  200 020 20x-6  8  1  

Leary, Cadarat (7), Plunk (7), Farr (8) and Leyrltz, Nokes (6), Geren (8); Tanana, Patry (6), Gibson (8), Henneman (9) and Tettlaton. W-Gibson, 1-0. L-Cadaret, 0-1. Sv-Henneman, 0-1. HAs-New York, Maas (1), Blowers (1). Datroh, Trammen (1). 
Chicago 030 005 010---9 10 

Bahlmore 100 000 000--1 4 0 
McDowell and Fisk, Karkovlce (7); Ballard, Bautista (6), Kilgus (6), Flanagan (9) and Melvin. W-McDowell, 1-0. L--Baliard, 0-1. HRs-Chicago, Sosa 2 (2). 
Cleveland 100 100 000--2 6 

Kansas Chy 021 010 OOx-4 10 o 
Swindell, Orosco (7) and Alomar: Sabarhagen, Montgomery (8) and Macfarlane. W-Saberhagen, 1-0. L-Swindell, 0-1. Sv-Montgomery (1). HR­Cievaland, Belle (1). 
Boston 005 000 01 CJ.-..-6 5 0 
Toronto 010 000 001-2 7 0 
Clemens, Gray (9) and Pena; Stieb, Acker (6), Letter (8), Tirrlin (8) and Myers. W-Ciemens, 1·0. L-Stieb, 0-1. HAs-Boston, Clark (1). Toronto, Cart..-(1). 
Milwaukee 210 020 000--5 10 3 Texas 020 001 010-4 4 o 
Knudson, Lee (6), Crim (7), Plesac (8), Nunez (9) and Surholl; Ryan, Bartield (8), Gossage (8), Jeffcoat (9) and Petralli, Stanley (7). W-Knudson, 1-0. L-Ryan, 0-1. Sv-Nunez (1). HAs­Milwaukee, Yount (1). Texas, Palmeiro (1), Sierra (1),Reimer(1). 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Houston 000 100 001-2 5 Cincinnati 000 510 OOx-6 10 o 
Scott, Clancy (5), Klle (8) and Biggio; Browning, Myers (9), Dibble (9) and Read. W--Browning, 1-0. L-Scon, 0-1. Sv-Dibble (1). HAs-Houston, Biggio (1). Cincinnati, Larkin (1). 
NBA STANDINGS 
Ali Times EDT EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvlalon 
w L y-Boston 54 21 x-Philadelphla 42 33 x-NewYork 36 39 Washington 27 48 New Jersey 23 52 Miami 22 53 Central Dlvlalon y-Chicago 55 20 x-Datroh 47 28 x-MIIwaukee 45 30 X·Atlanta 40 35 x-indlana 37 38 Cleveland 28 47 Charlotte 23 53 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midweat Division 
w L 
x-San Antonio 51 24 •·Houston 49 25 x-Utah 49 26 Orlando 27 47 Dallas 26 48 Minnesota 23 51 Denver 19 56 
Pacific Dlvialon x-Portland 57 18 X·LA Laker& 55 21 x-Phoenlx 50 25 x-Goiden State 39 37 Seattle 36 38 
LA Clippers 30 45 Sacramento 21 53 x-<:linched playoff berth y-cllnched division thle Sunday'• Game• Cleveland 102, Charlene 1 00 San Antonio 92, Minnesota 87 Pet. .720 
.560 
.480 .360 .307 .293 
.733 .627 .600 .533 .493 .373 .303 
Pd. .680 .662 .653 .365 .351 .311 .253 
.760 .724 .667 .513 
.486 
.400 .284 
GB 
12 18 27 31 32 
8 10 15 18 27 321/2 
C?B 
11/2 2 23 1/2 24 112 271/2 32 
21/2 7 18 1/2 201/2 27 35 1/2 
Philadelphia 114, Chicago 111, OT Seattle 124, Denver 117 Portland 110, Dallas 92 LA Clippers 119, Sacramento 109 LA Lakers 93, Phoenix 85 Monday's Gamea Late Game Not Included Atlanta 105, Washington 94 San Antonio 115, Golden State 105 Lhah 111, Orlando 95 Denver at Seattle, (n) 

·-·~~-.,.-.,. ...... 'll' .......... o~~o .... , .... ,., ...... ~ ........................ -... ·-··­
Page 13
The Observer 

Tuesday, April9, 1991 
-

---~---------------------------------~----­
Boys of summer open '91 season 
Expos blank Sues; Reds celebrate with win over Astros 
Umpires end walkout, agree on a new four-year deal 
the ninth and got the last three Coleman completed Notre outs for the save. 
The Irish duo of DiLucia and
Men 
Dame's turnaround with a Tigers 6, Yankees 4 straight-set victory at number­DETROIT (AP) -Cecil
continued from page 16 
one doubles. Fielder, who led the majorColeman, already one of the The win left Bayliss optimistic leagues with 51 home runs andnation's top doubles players, about his team's progress 132 RBls last year, hit a two­recently moved into the top 100 heading into the Midwestern run double for Detroit. 
collegiate singles players. 
Collegiate Conference champi­Fielder, who homered twiceAt number-four singles, Chris onships. at Yankee Stadium in the finalWojtallck, filling in for the wAll things considered, it was game last season, flied out toInjured Zurker, responded with a positive experience, n he re­the warning track in his firsta win to give Notre Dame a marked. two at-bats this year, thencommanding 4-2 lead. 
broke a seventh-inning tie with 
them," he said. wThat's a tribute 
a double off Eric Plunk. 
to how far we've come this 
White Sox 9, Orioles 1 




Utah 
year." 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Sammy
The Irish will get something 
continued from page 16 Sosa homered twice and drove 
of a break today when they 
in five runs, and Jack McDowell because we got so close, but in 
travel up north to face Western 
pitched a four-hitter in the
another way it was frustrating 
Michigan. Barton wiiJ not make 
Baltimore's final opener at
because we couldn't get that 
the trip to rest her arm, so the 
Memorial Stadium. 
one extra match to win," said 
rest of the ladder will slide up a 
McDowell matched hisBarton. 
spot. 
career-high with 10 strikeoutsNotre Dame coach Jay 
wAfter losing such close 
and allowed only three runnersLouderback was satisfied with 
matches, it can help us, not 
after the first inning against ahis team's play. hurt us, playing against a team Baltimore lineup supposedlywutah and BYU are two very 
like Western Michigan," said 
rejuvenated by the additions ofgood programs and we came Harris. 
Glenn Davis and Dwight Evans. 
very, very close to upsetting 

is pleased to announce our 1991-92 Saint Mary's staff: 
f£mi£y Wiffett, Saint Marys f£ditor, 284-5086 .9Lmy qreenwoot£ .9lssistant Saint Marys f£ditor, 284-4301 Jennifer J{a6rycfi, .9lssistant Saint Marys f£ditor, 284-4303 .9Lnna Marie fJ'a6or, Saint Marys .9Lccent f£ditor, 284-5490 Marguerite Scfiropp, Saint Marys Pfiotograpfiy f£ditor, 284-5418 Cfiristine Penote, Saint Marys Sports f£ditor, 284-5088 Maureen Scfinee6erger, Saint Marys 9\[iws f£ditor, 284-5214 
The new editors would like to hear from you if you know about something newsworthy that should be in The Observer. They are also looking for writers in all departments (no experience necessary) and photographers. 
The Saint Mary's Observer office is located in Room 309 Hagaar College Center. The phone number is 284-5365. The office will be open on Mondays and Wednesdays, 12:15 to 3 p.m., Fridays from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:15 to 3:15p.m. During office hours we will be accepting classified advertisments, letters to the editor, campus & lecture notices, of interests, birthday ads and other advertisments. Deadline information and other questions should be directed to day editors Barbara Carr and Michelle Clemente. 
NEW YORK (AP)-Major league umpires agreed to a new contract Monday and ended their two-day walkout, but the deal came too late for them to reach seven of the eight season openers. 
Amateur umpires, who took over for the final two days of spring training, worked all but one of Monday's games, the first time regular umpires missed games during the sea­
son since 1979. But they were due back Tuesday, when nine games were scheduled. 
"Money was the biggest is­sue," commissioner Fay Vincent said. "I think both sides compromised." 
Under the four-year agree­ment, the minimum salary for umpires rises from $41,000 to $60,000 and the maximum goes from $105,000 to $175,000. Umpires get a third week of vacation during the season, a rise in daily expense money from $169 to $185 and increases in medicals benefits, insurance coverage and pensions. In addition, the postseason pool rises from $800,000 to $1.2 million. 
In exchange, the American and National Leagues will be able to select umpires for the All~Star game, playoffs and World Series on merit. The previous agreement contained many restrictions that forced the leagues to rotate umpires for major events. 
"The idea was to be sure that 
we could reward people for 
working hard and performing well," Vincent said. 
Monday's only game with regular umpires was In Texas, where the Rangers played Milwaukee with President Bush looking on. 
At Tiger Stadium, where the New York Yankees opened against Detroit, former AL umpire Bill Deegan worked home plate and three college umpires worked the bases. Former minor league umpires were at Baltimore's game against the Chicago White Sox and the New York Mets' game against the Philadelphia Phlilies. 
Former AL umpire Dallas 
Park was at second base for 
Cleveland's game at K!insas 
City with college and former 
minor league umpires. 

The 60 major league umpires 
walked out after talks broke 
down early Saturday morning. 
Management negotiator Robert 
Kheel and Richie Phillips, head 
of the Major League Umpires 
Associatlon, resumed 
discussions at 4 p.m. Sunday 
afternoon and stayed at it until 
a tentative agreement was 
reach at 7:25 a.m. Monday 
morning. 

The relationship between 
umpires and baseball has been 
tempestuous -six work stop­
pages in 21 years-and at one 
point in the all-night talks, 
Phillips threw a chair across 
the conference room, punctur­
ing a 6~by-6-inch hole in the 
wall. 

PITTSBURGH (AP) -Dennis Martinez continued his mastery of Pittsburgh by allowing one hit in seven innings and Ivan Calderon homered in his first National League game as Montreal beat Pittsburgh 7-0 Monday night 
Martinez, 8-2 lifetime against the Pirates, didn't surrender a hit until Barry Bonds' leadoff single in the seventh. Constantly working ahead of the hitters by mixing a moving fastball and sliders, he struck out five and walked two before being lifted for a pinch-hitter. 
Reds 6, Astros 2 

CINCINNATI -The Cincinnati Reds turned the traditional National League opener into a championship party. 
The Reds got shiny new World Series championship rings in a pregame ceremony, then showed the Houston Astros how they won them. Tom Browning pitched a five-hitter before needing relief in the ninth and doubled home three runs. 
Mets 2, Phlllles 1 

NEW YORK -Dwight Gooden celebrated the one­week anniversary of his $15.45 million contract with the Mets by beating Philadelphia for New York's 19th victory in 22 season openers. 
Gooden, making his sixth opening-day start for the Mets, heated up early by striking out three of the first four batters. In eight innings, he gave up one run, six hits, struck out seven and walked one. The only run he gave up was John Kruk's homer. John Franco came on in 
~-~ -----~-----~-­
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, April 9, 1991 


Sailing wins Indiana Championships SPORlS BRIEFS 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's sailing team, fresh from last weekend's fourth-place finish at Miami of Ohio and first place at the Indiana Championships, has its eyes set on a trip to the Collegiate Championships in New Orleans. 
In addition to the impressive showing last weekend, the community team spent its Easter vacation wisely, as it seized fifth place in a field of eight teams at the Clemson Regatta. All of these achieve­ments, however, have come on the coattails of an impressive showing at the Notre Dame Freshman Icebreaker competi­tion. 
MI think that we have a really strong team this year," said Commodore Moira Sullivan, who serves as club president. MThis year is really a rebuilding year for us because a lot of our members are seniors. But it seems to be going pretty well-we've been a pretty strong club so far." 
Freshman skipper Greg Millar started the season with a splash, grabbing two first places at the Icebreaker. Millar's achievement, however, has been served encores at such events at the Clemson Regatta, Miami of Ohio races and Indiana Championships. 

The ND/SMC team, which owns and sails a fleet of nine MFlying Junior" boats, common among Midwestern teams, raced to its ftfth-place frnish at Clemson in the SEC-preferred u420" racing boats. 
Last weekend saw the team post its best results to date, as the NDISMC A-boat, skippered by Lisa Fox and crewed by 
Long road trip comes to an end for baseball team 
Special to the Observer 

The Notre Dame baseball team (15-12) concludes its sea­son-opening road trip today with a single game at Northwestern. 
The Irish are coming off a split with Midwestern Collegiate Conference foe Evansville, while the Wildcats split four games with Minnesota this weekend. 
The Wildcats are 8-14-1 for the year including a 7-0 loss to the Irish at the College Baseball Classic over spring break. Notre Dame sophomore Chris Michalak pitched a one-hitter for the victory. 
Sophomore Pat Leahy will probably start the game on the mound for the Irish. Offensively, junior team captain Joe Binkiewicz will be expected to lead the Notre Dame attack after an excellent weekend at the plate. 
Binkiewicz tied the Notre Dame records for most RBis and most home runs in a single game Saturday against the
' 
Aces. The junior tied Tim Hutson's record for most RBis with seven and Jake Kline's long-standing record of three homers. 
For Northwestern, the play­ers to watch are outfielder Mike Stein (.393 batting aver­age) and shortstop Mark Loretta (.375). 
Adrienne Briggs, swamped the Miami of Ohio competition for a fourth-place frnish in a field of 14 teams. The B-boat, with Julie Gardner as skipper and Moira Sullivan as crew, placed 11 out of14. 
The team bettered even that impressive showing at its next competition-the Indiana Championships, hosted by Notre Dame. B-skipper Michael Kane and B-crew Laura Scully sliced through the waves for six first-place finishes while pacing the NDISMC team victory. 
Sullivan maintains an upbeat attitude toward the rest of the season-and with previous per­formances to back her up. 

"I think that the women's team has a good chance with Lisa Fox and Patty Losinske," remarked Sullivan. MThey're both seniors and they're both really good. Also, they've quali­fied for the championships a couple of years ago. We've also got some good freshmen skip­pers like Michael Kane, Millar and Steve Kelly." 
Now, the team will quickly return to foreign waters, as it voyages to Ohio State this weekend, the Women's champi­onships at Michigan State the 
•The Irish Heartlltes fun runs are coming up April 11. There 
will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Students and staff should start training now. 
•Former Oxford Cricketer Dr. Walshe will hold a discussion tonight at 8 pm in 115 O'Shaughnessy. All are welcome to attend. 
•ND/SMC Salllng Club: There will be practice every day at 3 
p.m. Lessons will be offered on Monday and Tuesday. For more information about these lessons, call Eric Bremer 288-9359. There also will be a meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. 
•The NO Martial Arts Institute will hold its annual Black belt testing on Saturday, April 13, in room 301 of the Rockne Memorial starting at 1:00 pm. All are welcome to attend. 

Softball splits weekend series at Southern Invitational 
By RICH MATHURIN Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame softball team returned from a successful road trip in Birmingham, Ala., as they competed in the Southern Invitational. The Irish went 2-2, winning the first two games against North Carolina­Charlotte and Samford, but dropping its last two to nation­ally-ranked teams Florida State and South Carolina. 
In the first game, the Irish received a big lift from fresh­man pitcher Carrie Miller (3-3), who spun a two-hit shutout versus UNC-Charlotte to lift the Irish to a 1-0 victory. Miller was returning from a shoulder injury which has sidelined her since March 15. 
It was an all-Miller show as the Irish's other Miller, Lisa, knocked in the only run for the Irish with a single, bringing home co-captain Kathy Vernetti in the second inning. Lisa Miller now leads the team with 13 RBI's. 

In the second half of the dou­bleheader, the Irish used the strong pitching of Missy Linn (7-8) and Stacey Alford (two saves) to slip by host Samford 4-1. Linn worked the frrst five innings to garner the win, while Alford closed out the last two innings. 
The Irish only managed three hits off Samford's Jennifer Johnson, but were helped im­mensely by five Bulldog errors. 
Rachel Crossen opened the scoring by delivering a two-run single in the top of the first, scoring Lisa Miller and Laurie Sommerlad. After a Bulldog run in the bottom of the first, the Irish answered when Sommerlad walked and scored 
=t~ 

"/f7te Cushw~ Gntc:r {tJY -f:lte--> '-t.Sb~ ..rA~~tt:ric~"' (ifh"/;ci.siTL 
Jrewd-s. 
.·. 

CT!it 'll-mtf.le.!/<r{:(:LUr {!Frrk 7!1e~!y uJ fh 1~71 .ft'llrbi'fii!f11~) 
<7'':1_rJff' 7fi,tof!J~o/ 
Qt.di1,;Jnt Gu~ 
Jurf~-r.Jjn·f 1, 1111 • ·I· -f:rr?~
• 

ftJbu~J!!~-0f~ 


EARN $5500 THIS SUMMER 
RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS VALUABLE RESUME EXPERIENCE 
SOUTHWESTERN COMPANY INFORMATION MEETINGS 5:30 AND 7:30 O'SHAG ROOM 206 MONDAY, APRIL 8 
TUESDAY, APRIL 9 WEDNESDAY, APRILIO 
on an error in the third. The fi­nal margin was provided by single by pinch-hitter Melissa Cook scoring Megan Fay, who had also reached on an error. 
On Saturday, the Irish did not fare as well against nationally­ranked South Carolina, drop­ping a close game 3-1 despite the strong pitching of Linn, whose record fell to 7-9. 
In the second game, Florida State had its way with Notre Dame, topping the Irish 7-0. Carrie Miller (3-4) took the loss. 
MWe did some things well this weekend, but we still need to grow. I think we proved to our­selves that we can play with top teams like Florida State and South Carolina," said Irish coach Brian Boulac. MPitching kept us in some ball games and our defense had been really 
.111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111110111111111111111. SUMMER STORAGE FOR STUDENTS 


~~~~~SjT=j~~~---­
·A deposit will hold your storage unit Hurry Now -Spaces are going fast! 
.1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111. 
EXPERIENCED SPEECH/DEBATE COACH NEEDED 
If interested call Nancy at 277-2942. 
Graduate Students Encouraged To Apply 

Experience Required 


Tuesdoy, Apr1l 9, 1991 page 1! 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Tuesday ACROSS 30 Up-to-date &2 Athletic 32A Khan 64 Staffer
1 Short distance 
33 Girl-watcher

4:15 p.m. "The Promise of a Popular Church:The Laity and The &5 Carolina rail
5 Controversy 
35 Elevation

1971 Pittsburgh Synod," Timothy Kelly, Catham College­9 Recorded &6 Winter forecast 
between valleys 

Pittsburgh, Hesburgh Library Lounge. A part of the American 14 PBS science 67 Broad smile 
38 Advance, as 

Catholic Studies Seminar. Sponsored by Cushaw Center for the series 
money &&Inclusive abbr. Study of American Catholicism. 40 Bribed
15 Recent &9 Criteria 
6:30 p.m. Film: "Mosquito Coast," Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's 16 Humble 42 Paris's home 
70 Howdah, e.g. College. Sponsored by Saint Mary's Popular Culture Group. 43 Red Bordeaux 
17 Iron and Stone 71 Sinbad or 18--patriae wine
7 p.m. Film and discussion: "War on the llomefront," Center Popeye
19 High-strung 45 Court pleas, forfor Social Concerns. Sponsored Gulf Crisis Action Group as a 
short

20 Marcelpart of the Analyzing the War: Tuesday Night Video Series. 
Marceau, for 47 Shoshonean DOWN 
7 p.m. Film: "Baghdad Cafe," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite one 48 Declaims 1 Easy exam Museum. 
23 Traffic snarl 50 Harmony 2 Cicero's wear 
7:30 p.m. Charismatic Prayer Meeting and Mass, Log Chapel. 24 Lamb's 52 Warning word 3 Unruffled 9 p.m. Film: "To Kill a Mockingbird," Annenberg Auditorium, sobriquet 54 Ponder 4 Chalk like Snite Museum. 25 Invariably 55 Stripling crayon27 Corded fabric 56 Bedlam 
5 Hialeah bird &Vampire
LECTURES 
7 

---------------------ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Speck
Tuesday 8 Lovely woman 9Telltale 
Noon. "Contemporary Music in the USSR," Anatoly Kovolyvov, Soviet Composer of Leningrad Conservatory of Music, Little 
30 Island in the 49 Souchong or 58 Urgent
Theater, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's College. A part of the 
Cyclades hyson 59 Tittle 
Lunchtime Hecital Series. Sponsored by Saint Mary's Music 
31 Pitcher 51 Touch and taste 
60 U.S.S.R.'s Department. 
Hershiser 52 Explosion Mountains 4 p.m. Ward-Phillips Lecture: "The Work of Art in the Age of 34 Queue 53 Bird on a bill 61 Brewer's need Sexual Heproduction," Nancy Armstrong, University of 3& Head for 63 Call at
54 TV, radio, etc. 57 Badgers Wimbledon
Minnesota, EPS Theater, Center for Continuing Education. 37 Watches 
Sponsored by The College of Arts and Letters. 39 The first Mrs. Copperfield
4 p.m. "Hcvisioning the University: The Lesson of El Salvador," Answers to any three clues in this41 Deed
Rev. Charles Beirne, Universidad Centro Americana, San puzzle are available by touch-tone 
44 Broadlooms

Salvador, El Salvador. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each 
pies 46 Passable minute).
by Institute for International Peace Studies, the Center for Civil and Human Rights, the Center for Social Concerns, and the departments of theology and sociology. MENU 
4:30 p.m. The College of Science's Annual Nieuwland Lecture Series In Biological Sciences: "From Amber to Chemical Ecology 
Notre Dame 

in the Tropics," Jean Langenheim, professor, University of California, Santa Cruz, Room 283, Galvin Life Science Building. Sponsored by biological sciences. Baked Cajun 
Roast Turkey Vineyard Vegetables with Cheese 
CALVIN AHD HOBBES 
BILL WAITERSON 

• 
AnTostal is going to be a blast this year and you can be a part of it! The Events denoted with an "*" simply highlight the events that will include DORM teams in what we arc calling "The Quest For The Crown" interdonn competition. The winning guys and girls dorms will receive a VCR. ---All the following events can be signed up for by you and your friends, too! 

•d I Ill ""I I'NIH~~ Ill 1\l' I 1 
Si~n-llps for the 

An'l'ostnl '91 Events WPd-hi., Apriii0-12 from 4-6 p.m. 
~ ;.. T) 
l! \IPI•!_.~ll ~·n •lJ."~ •' •

In the Student Union Board Office 
. cl ~·· ~ ... _, .1. j,_ .l./
#'~ 1£111"•••1C.UIC.I o",.•o"~
(2nd floor of LaFortune) 
C ~· 
··~·l'­
~ 
.. "'octY..t ~ 

Si~n-Ups for the ..~~4· An'l'ostnl '91 Events 
'V/ 
/ :1.~ 

Wed-Frl., April lO-ll from 4-6 p.m. In the Student Union Board Office (2nd floor of W'ortune) 
JUST A REMINDER: The 5th and FINAL General Meeting will be at s p.m. on TUESDAY night in the Library Auditorium ... ALL MUST BE PRESENT! 









Sports 
Page 16 Tuesday, April 9, 1991 
Tennis teams suffer close defeats in road matches Men lose at Duke, rebound at West Virginia 
By HUGH MUNDY matches highlighted by sopho­Irish faced a tough West Sports Writer more Andy Zurker's thrilling Virginia squad on Sunday. three-set victory for the Irish. After the loss to Duke, Bayliss 
The rolling hills of West After Dave DiLucia and Chuck was skeptical about his team's Vrrginia provided a perfect set­Coleman grabbed a quick vic­chances against the 25th­ting for the many ups and tory at number-one doubles, ranked Mountaineers. downs experienced by the Notre Dame saw its chances of "Following a knockdown, Notre 'Dame men's tennis team victory slide as Zurker suffered drag-out match like Duke, it's during its difficult weekend a severe hand injury during his difficult to come back and play road trip. number-two match. hard," he commented. 
The Irish dropped a heart­Although he was able to The Irish, however, improved breaking 5-4 match to Duke complete play, Zurker's racket upon Saturday's performance University on Saturday, but re­skills were hampered by the in­en route to a surprisingly easy bounded Sunday with a decisive jury. 5-2 win. victory against West Virginia. Nevertheless, the Irish dou­DiLucia continued his incred­
Notre Dame coach Bob bles team won the second set 7-ible singles play as the junior Bayliss had mixed emotions 5 before losing the third set in a All-American extended his win­about his team's play. tie-breaker. ning streak to 22. 
"Obviously, I was very disap­"Duke picked up a lot of mo­"Dave has been consistently pointed to lose another close mentum in that match," re­spectacular all season," said match," he said. "However, our marked Bayliss. "It was the Bayliss. performances indicate that we turning point." Sophomore Chuck Coleman are among the top teams in the The Blue Devils sealed the 5-4 was equally impressive as he nation." upset victory with a win at cruised to a straight-set victory . 
_,ff!!j 
The Duke matchup featured number-three doubles. in his number-two match. The Observer/John Cluver Junior David Dilucia extended his winning streak to 21 consecutive
competitive singles play as the Notre Dame had little time to 
matches this past weekend. 
squads split the opening six dwell on its misfortune as the see MEN/ page 13 
Utah, BYU too strong for Irish women 
By RICH KURZ  defeated Federica Lentini 6-4,  extend her win streak to 14  
Associate Sports Editor  6-4.  matches.  
With the score tied at three  The Utes won matches at  
A trip out West isn't always a  apiece, Notre Dame needed to  number-three through number­ 
•  restful vacation, as the Irish women's tennis team  win two of three doubles matches. The number-one team  five singles, before Kim Pacella beat Stephanie Gall 6-2, 6-2 to  
discovered last weekend.  of Barton and Christy Faust­ tie the match.  
Notre Dame (14-8) dropped  mann, currently ranked 19th in  Senior captain Barton was  
two matches, both by 5-4  the nation, fell in straight sets  unable to compete at number­ 
scores, against Utah and  to Sarah Mugnaini and Evica  one doubles due to a sore arm,  
Brigham Young University, after  Koljanin 6-4, 6-0.  so Faustmann had to compete  
having both matches tied at 3-3  Ann Bradshaw and Tholen  with a new partner. The duo  
after singles play was  lost a tough match 7-5, 6-4 to  lost in three sets, as did  
completed.  kill hopes of an Irish victory,  Bradshaw and Tholen at second  
although Kristy Doran and Terri  doubles.  
The weekend started off on a  Vitale won 7-5, 6-1, 7-6-to  The team of Doran and Vitale  
good note for the Irish. Both  make the final a 5-4 victory for  continued their fine play,  
number-one and number-two  BYU.  winning 2-6, 6-3, 6-1, at  
singles were victorious, as  Notre Dame didn't have much  number-three doubles.  
Tracy Barton and Melissa  time to sit back and con­ Reactions to the two close  
Harris won three-set matches  template Saturday's tough loss,  losses ranged from frustration  
against ranked opponents.  however, as it had to face 21st­ to a sense of pleasure at how  
BYU recovered to win three  ranked Utah the very next day.  the team has improved  
out of the last four singles  Again the top two singles  throughout the season.  
The Observer/Garr Schwartz matches, the only bright spot  positions led the Irish, as  "In one way, it was exciting  
The women's tennis team lost two close matches to nationally-ranked for the Irish being Lisa Tholen  Barton won 6-2, 2-6, 6-4; and  
opponents Utah and Brigham Young over the weekend. at number-four singles, who  Harris won 1-6, 6-2, 6-4 to  see UTAH I page 13  
Holtz optimistic heading into spring drills  

By DAVE DIETEMAN tion from the departure of fel­are trying tailback, inside Sports Editor low greats Chris Zorich, Todd linebacker Brian Ratigan has Lyght, Mike Stonebreaker, Mike moved outside and strong safety 
Th,e watchword at this year's Heldt, Ricky Watters, Tim Ryan, Greg Davis has switched spots Irish spring football workouts is Bob Dahl, Andre Jones, Scott with free safety Tom Carter. "gaps." Kowalkowski and Donn Grimm. 
Gaps to fill, that is. Despite the reigning uncer­Yet Notre Dame fans should tainties, Lou Holtz is not 
This may sound unbelievable not start crying themselves to dreading the kickoff of his sixth when speaking of a team sleep just yet. season at Notre Dame. stocked with talent like Notre Dame, but Lou Holtz and his As Holtz is careful to point "We'll have a little bit of bad coaching staff see themselves out, the Irish have their share times, probably like July of as beginning a crucial spring. of able bodies to choose from. 1988," stated Holtz. "Every day 
• it's a different story. There is a 
"This team will be further "Jeff Burris will remain in the lot of deja vu going into this behind than any other team secondary," predicted Holtz. season. It feels almost like we've had, but we expect it to "We're looking at Bernard 1988. I'm looking forward to be a solid team," said Holtz at a Manley on the defensive line. this team. This is a fun team to press conference where he was We're also looking at Pete be around." officially cleared of NCAA Rausch, Junior Bryant, and allegations of wrongdoing while Brian Lacy. There are just lots While not predicting an Irish at Minnesota. "We're not of players we're looking at." national championship, Holtz outstanding. This is the type of was willing to discuss several team where you look at us right Aside from looking for players aspects of the new Notre Dame now and see that we have some to win positions they have game plan. serious question marks." competed for in the past, Holtz 
and his staff are also pulling the "I think you will definitely see 
The Observer/Elisa Klosterman
Perhaps the most glaring void usual off-season switches. more of a 4-3 defensive align­
Bookstore action
on the Irish roster is that left by Offensive tackle Gene McGuire ment from us," noted Holtz. NFL-bound flanker Raghib is being looked at as a center, "We're looking for a good pass 
The Bookstore Basketball Tournament is in full swing this weekend 
Ismail. The loss of Ismail, how­while free safety Willie Clark 
with preliminary round games. Monday's results in Scoreboard. 
ever, should not distract atten-and cornerback Reggie Brooks see SPRING I page 11 






