, 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The !louse on Tuesday sustained President Bush's veto earlier in the day of a bill that would have lifted his ban of federally financed abortion counseling. Democrats had thought they had the muscle to override Bush for the first time, but fell a dozen votes short. 
The outcome left Bush with a perfect 24-0 record for making his vetoes stiek, and was a blow to House Speaker Thomas Fo­ley, 1>-Wash., who convened the override debate immediately after the president's action with a prediction that "We have the , votes" on the hotly disputed abortion issue. 
But Foley didn't; the 276-156 tally was a dozen short of the two-thirds necessary. 
Foley, in a rare speech on the House floor, condemned the veto as motivated by "a mis­taken principle." 
At stake was an overall $205 billion spending bill for educa­tion, labor and health pro­grams. But the fight was cen­tered on a provision that would block for one year the Bush administration's rule banning abortion counseling at federally supported family planning clin­ics. 
That provision has been at­tacked as a "gag rule" by critics who say it shackles doctors and prevents pregnant women from obtaining information pertinent to their right of choice. 
Supporters did not have the two-thirds override strength in the last House vote on the mea-

Thomas Foley 
sure, either -when it was ap­proved 272-156. 
The bill had cleared the Sen­ate 72-25, more than the two­thirds veto-proof majority, earlier this month. 
"The president ought to feel pretty good about this," said Rep. Vin Weber, R-Minn., a leading anti-abortion lawmaker. "This was an issue where it was very hard for us to demand party loyalty.... This was a tough one." 
Fifty-three Republicans and one independent joined 222 Democrats in voting to override the president. Forty-three Democrats voted with 113 Re­publicans to sustain. 
"What happened was the White House worked very, very hard," said Rep. Steny Hoyer, D­Md., chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. "I think the president loses on this. I don't think the American public agrees with him." 
In vetoing the bill, Bush con­tended he was not trying to re­strict counseling for pregnant women. 
He pointed to a memo he sent to Louis Sullivan, the secretary of Health and Human Services, which he said "makes clear that there is no 'gag rulo' to in­terfere with the doctor-patient relationship. I have directed that in implementing these reg­ulations, nothing prevents a woman from receiving complete medical information about her condition from a physician." 
Democrats denounced Bush's veto in strong terms aud said that in vetoing the measure, Bush was jeopardizing the bill's spending for major health and education programs. Rep. Vic Fazio, D-Calif., called the veto 
see ABORTION I page 4 

War crimes committed by Saddam, said Beres 
By JOHN CONNORTON of Kuwaiti citizens and aggres-News Writer sion against non-combatants Israel and Saudi Arabia. 
Although thll war in the Per-Saddam has also been ac­sian Gulf is officially over, the cused of committing genocide issue of war erimes remains against the Kurds "before, unresolved, according to Louis during and after the invasion," lhmH Bmes. Beres said. 
Despite President Rush's The difficulties in prosecuting statement in March 1991 that Gulf War war criminals have "Saddam Hussein and all those been compounded by the with him are accountable" for United States' fear of the geo­war crimes, the Iraqi President political costs such prosecution rtlmains in firm control of his might cause, Beres said. He country and, as many maintain, added that the U.S. fears continues to commit genocide strengthening Iran, Iraq's against Iraq's Kurdish popula-principal rival in the Middle tion. East, and is hesitant to alienate 
Berlls, professor of political other Arab nati~ns. sdnnce and international law at Another dilliculty involved in l'urdun University, spoke yes-any such prosecution is decid­tmday at the Ilesburgh Center ing where the war crime trials for International Studies about should be held. thn possibilities for prosecuting "Kuwait's right to speak on thn criminals of grievous war matters of international law has crimes that occurred during the been compromised because of Persian Gulf War. r its oppression of Palestinians 
Iraqi war crimes include in-and other minorities." he said. human treatment of coalition "Some argue that America's prisoners of war, barbarous and right has, as well," because of unjustified assaults against its not-quite surgical bombings Kuwait, the calculated murder see SADDAM I page 4 
Un Momenta 


)
, 
Iii!,~· ..·· ..··~· 
<--~ 
Ready, aim ... 
Dillon Hall sophomore Dan Dipaola takes aim at his target Tuesday afternoon at the stadium rifle range. The exercise was a part of the Army ROTC rifle team's practice session. 
Loretto renovation certain; SMC community divided 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Faust Capobianco, a Cavanaugh Hall sophomore, pauses for a moment while watching an instructional video at the Language Resource Center for his first year Italian class. 
By KAREN ALBERS 
News Writer 
Renovation of the Church of Loretto at Saint Mary's is im­minent, despite opposition from many in the Saint Mary's com­munity, according to Mary Turgi, chairperson of the reno­vation committee. 
Turgi discussed the reasons behind the decision at an open forum held yesterday at Saint Mary's. 
Renovations have been dis­cussed for at least eight years, but until last September, there has been no real planning. The committee spent three to four months finding an architect be­fore deciding on Evans Wooller, the same architect who de­signed Saint Mary's Cushwa­Leighton Library. 
One reason behind the deci­sion was that the committee thought that there are many structural defects in the church, according to Turgi. 
The acoustics and lighting are believed to be inadequate, she said. Because of the high, concave architecture, sounds tend to bounce around, making it hard for others to hear the service. 

The walls of the church will be altered to better the acous­tics, according to Turgi. Presently, the walls of the church slope down to niches, into which various statues are placed. The walls above the niches are composed of colored tile mosaics, depicting various scenes from the Bible. 
Wooller decided that the first fifteen feet of the walls should be removed, taking off only mosaics of palm trees while leaving the pictures intact. The niches would be removed under the architect's plan and the re­sulting wall area made convex, to counteract the acoustics. 
Wooller believes that the ren­ovations will cause a fifty per­cent improvement in the acous­tics. 
see LORETTO I page 4 
~~~~~-------... --­
page2 Wednesday, November 20, 1991 
FORECAST: Cloudy and turning colder with a 40 percent chance of showers. Partly sunny, decreased cloudiness in the afternoon. TEMPERATURES: 


INSIDE COLUMN 
"ND family" isn't as great as it sounds 
As the time for turkey------­

and gift giving approaches  
none  too  quickly  for  
overworked  students,  
thoughts  of  family  
holidays  past  keep  
popping into mind. No  
where  are  thoughts of  
"family" more prevalent  Lisa Eaton  
than at Notre Dame. At  
the very core of the whole  Managing Editor  
Notre Dame mystic is the  

idea of the "Notre Dame family." 
This is a concept diligently promoted by ND representatives across the country as they attempt lure prospective students to life under the Golden Dome. They speak of how dorm life encourages a sense of family, how everybody at Notre Dame is just one big happy family and how the administration is going to be there to shoulder the parental role for the new students. 
In theory, there is nothing really wrong with this idea. Almost everybody has a positive concept of families and it is natural to want to have the comfort and safety of home come along to college. The real problem with this idea lies in its practice and application. 
There is en loco parentis, that gem of administrative policy giving good ole' Monk and his cohorts the authority to act as mom and dad away from home. 
To the average high school senior and his/her parents, this is undoubtedly a very reassuring and attractive concept. But who really needs a second set of parents? 
In reality the university, although good intentioned, does not allow its adult students the freedom to make their own decisions about important issues, such as sexuality and alcohol. Parietals and an alcohol policy, in some form, are necessary for the general safety of the students, but it currently encourages "closet" behaviors and uninformed choices. The university is not winning any "Parent of the Year" awards for that. 

Notre Dame proudly boast about the fact that there are only single sex dorms with limited visitation hours on its campus. Why doesn't Notre Dame have co-ed dorms or · extended visitation hours? Does the Admin­istration think that campus is going to become a orgy factory? Or does it simply not have enough confidence in its students to give them some credit for wanting to live and behave like adults in a dormitory situation? Do students have to move off-campus to prove that they can handle having neighbors of the opposite sex? 
"Parental concern" and "administrative concern" should be two mutually exclusive ideas. The whole point of going away to college is to learn how to fly solo in the face of difficult decisions. To replace one set of parents with another is defeating the purpose and inhibiting the growth of the student. 
The "Notre Dame family" is a very inviting one, but it is not without its price. As it cur­rently functions, the price seems to be the students' freedom to choose how to live their lives. Maybe one day, the administration will realize that this isn't Never-Never Land and sooner or later everybody has to grow up. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Today's Staff 

Production News Lisa Bourdon Meredith McCullough Kristin Lynch Steve Zavestoski Sports Scoreboard Anthony King Mark McGrath Systems Accent Mike Murphy Patrick Moran Pat Barth Paige Smoron Chris Caracciolo Anna Marie Tabor Graphics Lab Tech. Beth Duane David Lee 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The ObseMir i& a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved . 
.___________ ----------­
City Athena 
Atlanta 
Bertin B06ton Chicago 
Dallas-Ft.Wor111 
Denver 
Detroit 
Honolulu Houston ndianapolil London Loa Ange\901 Mlarri Beach New Orleans N-York 
Paris 
Philadelphia
Rome 
san Diego San Francisco Seal\Ia South Bend 

H L 
66 48 68 49 39 36 68 45 70 50 65 54 
44 25 8.4 54 85 73 79 63 68 60 
48 41 77 51 
78 75 83 72 67 45 
50 43 
62 40 63 39 
74 48 67 47 54 46 11 47 
Tokyo 66 50
Pressure 
Washington. D.C. 65 45
H L ~~w 0rn~ 
SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY

SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE
HIGH LOW 
.··::· 





TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Train derails near Mexico City MEXICO CITY -A freight train derailed and plunged into a busy highway south of the capital Tuesday, killing or injuring at least 50 people, authorities said. The accident occurred just outside the town of Tehuacan, 152 miles southeast of Mexico City in Puebla state. Reports from the scene indicated the train, heavily loaded with cement and sorghum, jumped the tracks at a curve near an elementary school and plowed into the traffic, said Lt. Susana Garcia Hernandez. She said there were about 50 dead or injured. At least 18 freight cars were destroyed as well as 14 vehicles on the highway, including passenger buses, Garcia said. 
NATIONAL 
Roberts defends recent fundraiser 
TULSA, Okla. -The chief financial officer for Oral Roberts Ministry believes the only way to stop the jokes about the ministry's most recent plea for money is to go bankrupt. Television evangelist Oral Roberts is asking donors to send money within the next three weeks or "all hell is going to break loose against this ministry." He 



OF INTEREST 
Seniors interested in teaching are invited to hear Pat Ryan, a representative of Inner City Teaching Corps, in the library concourse today, from 10 a.m. untill p.m. and then at the CSC from 2 p.m. until 5 p.m. In addition, an information session will be held tonight at 7 p.m. at the 

esc. 
A workshop will be presented on "The Second In­terview: A Presentation on the Office Visit" by Paul Reynolds, Associate Director of Career & Placement Ser­vices at 6:30 p.m in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center Sponsored by Career and Placement Ser­vices. 
(CHEETA) Coalition of Hoosiers Encouraging Ethical Treatment of Animals will host a presentation Wednesday, Nov. 20 at Saint Mary's College in the Haggar Chameleon Room at 8 p.m. 
An extra Hospitality Lunch will be held at the esc this Thursday, Nov. 21 from 11:30 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. Celebrate Thanksgiving this year by attending this special benefit lunch. 

MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ November 19 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX _m_ 291,185,140 209.91 v 3.12




n-...-..._:s,&l COMPOSITE 

379.42 • 5.82 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,931.57 • 41.15 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD • $ 2.90 to $364.40/oz. 
SILVER t-4.5¢ to $4.072/oz. 


warned of a "satanic conspiracy" facing the ministry. "The really sad thing is that so many of these people take the attitude that we really don't need the money, that there is no crisis," according to Mark Swadener, chief financial officer. Robert's son Richard blamed the decrease in contributions to the scandals involving former PTL leader Jim Bakker and evangelist Jimmy Swaggart. 
Njntendo loses at its own game INDIANAPOLIS-More than 100,000 Hoosiers will share $500,000 as part of a settlement between the Indiana attorney general's office and the Nintendo video game company. The settlement is part of a nationwide suit which alleges that Nintendo fixed prices, requiring retailers to sell the video consoles for a uniform price of $99.95 from June 1988 through December 1990, state Attorney General Linley Pearson said Tuesday. The agreement calls for Nintendo to provide $5 coupons to each of the 133,295 console owners who bought their games during the time of the alleged price fixing. Nintendo will also buy newspaper advertisements across the country to explain how Nintendo game owners can claim their coupons, Pearson said. 
The Sachs Group will hold a presentation/reception for all students interested in discovering career opportunities with the company. It will be held at 6:00 p.m. in the Foster Room on the 3rd Floor of LaFortune Student Cen­ter. The event is sponsored by Career and Placement Ser­vices. 
Sesquicentennial Halloween Contest proofs taken at Stepan Center will be on display in the O'Hara Lounge of LaFortune near the Information Desk. For additional information contact Rachel Flanagan at 283-1511. 
E. & J. Gallo Winery will hold a presentation/reception for all students interested in discovering career opportunities with the company. The event will take place in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn at 7 p.m. The presentation is sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
ON TIIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1789: New Jersey became the first state to ratify the Bill of Rights. 

•In 
1945: Twenty four Nazi leaders were put on trial before an international war crimes tribunal in Nuremberg, Germany. 

• 
In 1959: The United Nations issued its "Declaration of the Rights of the Child," saying countries had an obligation to ensure "a happy childhood" for the world's young people. 

•In 
1967: A few minutes after 11 a.m., the Census Clock at the Department of Commerce in Washington ticked past 200 million. 

•In 
1975: After nearly four decades of absolute rule, Spain's General Francisco Franco died in Madrid, two weeks before his 83rd birthday. 



Wednesday, November 20, 1991 The Observer page 3 



Iran says American captives to be freed Waite vows 
WASJIINGTON (AP)-Released other captives, Sutherland, re­
to fight for 

hostages Terry Waite and united with his family in Wies­Thomas Sutherland savored baden, Germany after more 

H TAGE 

their first full day of freedom than six years in captivity, let 
freedom

Tuesday, and key players in the hugs and smiles speak for him. 
hostage drama gave new indi­cations that the remaining Westerners held in Lebanon could soon be released as well. 
A day after pro-Iranian Shiite Muslim captors freed Waite, 52, and Sutherland, 60, Iran said the kidnappers would soon free the last three American captives and "close this case." 
At the United Nations, Secre­tary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar -who had said Mon­day that there was an agree­ment in principle to free the Western captives by Christmas -said Tuesday that such a re­hlase would be unconditional. 
The secretary-general has been trying for months to bro­ker a complex overall swap that would also involve missing Israeli servicemen in Lebanon and Arab detainees held by Is­rael and its allied militia in south Lebanon. Tuesday marked the first time he had suggested that the Westerners could be freed even if all the pieces of the complex puzzle do not fall into place. 
At a rain-swept air base in western England, Waite, the bear-like Church of England envoy kidnapped nearly five years ago during a mission to free the other hostages, had an emotional homecoming. 
Waite criticized all who hold prisoners in the Middle East, no matter what the reason. "Those who do it fall well below civilized standards of behavior, no matter who they are," he said in impassioned tones. 
While Waite was eloquent in his appeal for the release of 

Both Sutherland and Waite appeared to revel in the ordi­nary things denied them so long in captivity. 
Arriving at Wiesbaden early Tuesday, Sutherland was given a bouquet and deeply inhaled the scent. "I haven't seen flow­ers in 6 1/2 years," he said. 
In Tehran, official Iranian radio declared: "The rest of the three remaining American hostages will be freed soon." 
The commentary, monitored in Cyprus, praised the efforts of Perez de Cuellar, whose inten­sive mediation effort began in August. 
Lebanon's state television said Tuesday the three remaining American hostages would be released soon even if Israel failed to free more Arab pris­oners. The television cited an unidentified U.N. source. 
"There are assurances that the case of the remaining American hostages would be closed soon despite the lack of any sign of reciprocation from Israel," the station said. 
Both Waite and Sutherland had said Monday that their captors told them the three re­maining Americans -Terry Anderson, Joseph Cicippio and Alann Steen -would soon be released. 
Waite said the kidnappers told him Cicippio and Steen would be freed within a few days, and Anderson would be released by the end of the month. Sutherland said "in about a couple of weeks, all of the Americans will be freed, hopefully." 
Anderson, 44, chief Middle East correspondent for The As­sociated Press, was kidnapped March 16, 1985 and is the longest held of the hostages. Cicippio, 61, of Norristown, Pa., was kidnapped Sept. 12, 1986, and Steen, 52, of Boston, was abducted on Jan. 24, 1987. 


Humphrey details duty of SB controller 
By ERIN BROWN News Writer 
Keeping track of $70 million, handling 1,200 employees, and working alongside city council is all in a day's work for Katie Humphrey, she said. 
A'i South Bend city controller, Humphrey is in charge of all of the city's finances, she said in her lecture at Saint Mary's last night. The $70 million for which she is responsible include property tax revenues, enterprise tax funds, state excise taxes, as well as other taxes. 

In her department there are approximately 1,200 full time employees including police otli­cers, firemen, teamster employ­ees, secretaries, sanitation workers, and other part-time employees, she said. 
Humphrey said that she works closely with the city council and Mayor Joe Kernan in managing the budget. Some of her projects have included restoring a $1.6 million budget cut, restructuring the city's budget, and reducing health in­surance costs, she explained. 
Humphrey added that her job is challenging and interesting 





MANDATORY 

BE PREPARED TO BE IMPRESSED! 
WED: PENNY CUP NIGHT 
(Beat Jack the Bartender!) 
THURS: $1 TEAS 
FRI: WET I-SHIRT/BOXER SHORT CONTFS 
Playboy Star Ruth Ice at 9:00. Pictures and autographs
SAT: 75t, $3.50, & $5.00 SPECIAlS 
stadium 
Q JACC 
0 

... AND WE'LL ~CLEAN THE FLOOR! 
., 

'---------~--~ ~ 

<.. 
1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, IN 288-0285 
and she encouraged her audi­ence to consider elected office. Accounting or finance degrees are beneficial, she said, but not mandatory. She told her audi­ence that, "You have the op­portunity to make changes that I never would have dreamed about in the 1960's." 
She said she felt rather lim­
. ited in options in college but re­ceived her undergraduate de­gree in art education. After holding various positions, she received her master's degree in special education at Indiana University. She held jobs in public school and development centers before getting her MBA at Notre Dame in 1985. 
In 1987, she became involved in Kernan's campaign, who later offered her the position of city controller, she said. 

OCCUPATION Relief YiOrker MISSING SINCE May 16, 1989 
Thomas Kamptner 
CURRENT AGE  30  
OCCUPATION  Relief worker  
MISSING SINCE  May 16, 1989  

In Israel, officials sought"io ensure that their missing ser­vicemen remained part of any hostage-freeing deal. Israel's foreign minister, David Levy, urged mediators "to act without any discrimination until ev­eryone is released, including our prisoners." 
LYNEHAM, England (AP) ­Laughing and without a trace of bitterness, freed hostage Terry Waite returned home Tuesday and pledged to keep working to release all hostages in Lebanon. 
The burly envoy, who paid for his last mercy mission to Le­banon with five years in captiv­ity, joked about his large feet and the English weather. And he spoke with quiet and con­trolled emotion of nearly five years in captivity. 
The period, he said, included four years in solitary confine­ment, in a windowless room without books or notepaper. He spoke to no one except an occa­sional word with a guard who brought food. 
"I think you can imagine that after 1,763 days in chains it is an overwhelming experience to come back and receive your greetings," said Waite, 52, after flying into this air base in gusting winds and pouring rain. 
"From the bottom of my heart, thank you for turning out on such an awful day, but a typically English day," he said, looking gaunt, but walking steadily. 
Waite, 52, stepped from the air force plane which flew him home via Cyprus and spoke for nearly 15 minutes to well-wish­ers sheltered from the rain in a hangar. He was then reunited with his wife and four children. 
The 6-foot-7-inch Waite was freed Monday in Beirut along with American Thomas Suther­land. 



Saint Mary's music dept. will host Choir Festival 
By CAROLINE CLARKE News Writer 
The Saint Mary's College De­partment of Music will host its seventh annual High School Women's Choir Festival in O'Laughlin Auditorium tomor­row and Friday. 
In addition to Saint Mary's, 21 high school choirs from three midwestern states -In­diana, Michigan and Illinois ­will participate, according to Coordinator Nancy Menk. Each choir will perform in a 10 to 15 minute program. 
The Saint Mary's Women's Choir will perform at 12:10 
p.m. on both days, she ·said. Performance by the high school choirs run from 9:30 a.m. to noon, and 2 to 4:30 p.m. each day. 
Certain students from partic­ipating schools will be selected to attend private piano or voice lessons with members of Saint Mary's faculty. All participants will receive a campus tour and attend a performance by The Saint Mary's Women's Choir, according to Menk, associate professor of music and director of choral activities. 
"Commentators will be on hand to critique as well as in­struct the singers after each performance," she said. "The audience will be in an open re­hearsal atmosphere." 
Commentators for the festival are JoAnn Brorson, assistant 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~professor of music and director 
C
•ll.{(()Jjrrt1fnl C" S.'.9J.£./£
..ILl~ -LJYL/1J 

JACC VARSITY SHOP JACC FIELDHOUSE Enter Gate 3 
SALE RUNS THRU DEC....St 
...,... 
Weekdays 3-6 pm Sat 9-3 pm 
clOSed S Undays Sale on our re ular hi h ualit 
of choral activities at North Dakota State University at 
Fargo; Carl Starn, minister of music and worship at Chapel Hill Bible Church in N.C.; and Elmer Thomas, professor of music at the College-Conserva­
tory of Music at the University
of Cincinnati. ~ Menk said that all are en­~ couraged to attend, and admis­~ sion is free. For more informa­~ tion, contact the Saint Mary's 

~~~~:~:~~~~:~:=:~~::~~~~~ Department of Music at 284­
1 ~ 4632. 

SINCE 1949 
Grat Brlndl, Grat Slrvlcl, lirat Prtca, Rlntlll AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTALS 
Mon -Thur 11-7 pm Fri 11-6 pm 220 W Marion Sat 10-4 pm ~39 S M1chigan 
SPECIALISTS IN GUrrAR & BASS REPAIRS/ 

page 4 The Observer 

The Observer/Jon Novak 

All roads lead to Rome 
Graduate student Christopher Deam created this plan for the Ex-Arsenal District in Rome The model 
can be found on display in the Architecture Building. 
have your options explained to you ... by a doctor or a nurse."



Abortion 
Bush's ban on abortion coun­seling had the strong backing of 

continued from page 1 
anti-abortion leaders. Though 

lacking majority support in both "disgusting," and other the House and Senate, they had Democrats used similar lan­relied on Bush's veto and his guage. perfect record of sustaining
"This is an absolute outrage," those vetoes. said Rep. Patricia Schroeder, D­Rep. Chris Smith, R-N.J., ac­Colo. "Anyone who does not cused Democrats of pressuring vote to override is saying to anti-abortion lawmakers to American women, we don't switch their votes to overturn think you're adult enough to the gag rule. 
to pass from the jurisprudential to the common-sensical. If


Saddam 
there was a blanket ban on as­sassination, we would have to

continued from page 1 
realize that terrible crimes

ofIraq, Beres said. 
might have to go unpunished."

Because Saddam and his top The possibility of trials oc­officials are not in custody, curring is doubtful without "the there will be no repeat of the political will to make the ma­
Nuremburg Trials. The only 
chine work." With Saddam still way for justice might be assas­in power, his conviction on anysination, Beres said. 

charges would be next to im­"There has been no illegaliza­possible without a concerted in­tion of assassination in any in­ternational effort, Beres said. 

ternational treaty," said Beres. 
A native of Zurich, Switzer­"Assassination could be con­land, Beres has lectured widely strued as a law enforcement on international affairs, nuclear policy." 

war, and human rights. In

Although he acknowledged addition to writing articles forassassination is a very touchy journals specializing in interna­subject, Beres said, "it is time Chairs, rather than pews, will be used so that different ar­

Loretto 
rangements can be made; some chairs will have kneelers. 

continued from page 1 
The total cost of the renova­Parts of the church appear tion will be about a million dol­dark and gloomy, "like black lars, but Turgi believes thatholes," because of the choir that isn't very much, consider­balconies, said Robert Frazier ing the amount of work thatliturgist at Church of Loretto: will be done. The money isThe step in front of the altar coming from the Sisters of the area presents a hazard because Holy Cross Common Fund. 

it is the same color as the rest Despite the improvement inof the floor. 
acoustics, many students dis­A colonnade of 24 columns, agree with the decision to reno­each about nine feet apart, will vate the church. 

be placed around the nave to "I think it's an utter shame,"
give structural and aesthetic Saint Mary's student Robertasupport to the mosaic dome 
Hines said. "Why destroy theTurgi said. The colonnade will tradition of the church for aes­also focus attention on the li­thetic reasons?" One studentturgical space, and supply a opposed the opinion that theplace to house acoustical and 

statues in the church are

lighting systems. 
"distracting" to the service. 

The south and east balconies Some Holy Cross sisters alsowill also be removed to improve disagree with the renovation.
lighting, enhance the view of 
One sister said she was

the mosaic dome and the "embarrassed that they werestained glass windows in the 
spending this kind of money"dome. Painted glass windows and believed that itwould be "awill be replaced by clear glass hodgepodge" in the end. Other panes. 

sisters see it as a change ofShe said that the architect 

tradition and beauty. 

hopes to be able to reuse ma­Nevertheless, the committeeterials that are removed from feels the renovation is neces­
the church-such as marble 
sary to better worship and tofrom the altar, windows and follow the teachings of Vatican statues-in the new design. 

II. "Many aspects of this space The liturgical space itself will are hindering our prayer," saidhave antiphonal seating, with 

Frazier. "[Our] life is both

the altar in the center, she said. 
mission and prayer." 
· 
"You are being pressured by the pro-abortionists today to do something you believe to be ethically wrong. You are being pressured to facilitate abortion by overriding this vote," Smith said. 
The issue triggered deeply emotional debate. Advocates of the rule said abortion itself was at issue, while opponents said Bush's policy injects the gov­ernment into doctor-patient re­lationships and threatens free­dom of speech. 
tiona! affairs, he writes occa­sional columns in newspapers nationwide. 
This lecture was sponsored by the Kroc Institute for Inter­national Peace Studies, the De­partment of Government and International Studies, and the Notre Dame Law School's Cen­ter for Civil Service and Human Rights. 

--~---------------­
Wednesday, November 20, 1991 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) -The United States Tuesday forced home 300 Haitians who fled in small boats after a mili­tary coup. But as Haitians kept fleeing, a U.S. judge ordered the government to stop the repatriation. 
A U.S. Coast Guard cutter had picked up the 300 Haitians after the Sept. 30 coup and de­tained them aboard while the Bush administration weighed ~hat steps to take. On Monday, It moved to return them to the impoverished Caribbean coun­try. 
About 20 policemen looked on while immigration officials processed the returning Haitians, who had risked their lives to flee, many in frail ves­sels. Red Cross officials said they would examine the refugees and give them $10 each before they rejoined their families. 
The Haitians filled a green­ceilinged welcoming area at the industrial docks. Many sat list­lessly, arms folded on their knees, and others lined up for officials at tables. One man on line wore a shirt that said "Tahiti." 
Said one refugee, who spoke on condition of anonymity: ''I've tried to le-ave before. Every time I do, they catch me. I'm not going to try again." 
In Washington, State De­partment deputy spokesman Richard Boucher said the refugees continued leaving Haiti despite the U.S. decision Monday to return them. The Coast Guard has picked up a total of 2,160 since the coup, he said. 
Hours after the first group were returned, U.S. District Judge Donald Graham in Miami temporarily halted the repatri­ation until another hearing Monday. 
The Haitian Refugee Center in Miami had challenged the repa­

Haitians by the droves, many fearing repression, have been fleeing after President Jean­Bertrand Aristide, their first democratically elected presi­dent, was toppled by the mili­tary. Many were retrieved by Coast Guard cutters stationed not far from Haiti's coast. 
Nearly 500 are in U.S. cus­tody at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba and the rest are aboard Coast Guard cutters. Venezuela Belize, Honduras and Trinidad and Tobago had offered to take in at least 550 of the Haitians and U.S. officials said thos~ held at Guantanamo Bay will be sent to those countries first. 
After failing to persuade countries in the area to provide shelter for more Haitians, the State Department announced in Washington that most of the Haitians were being sent home, effective immediately. 

ItS About Time. Irs About Space. 
It's about ads that you will place. We are So, on Thursday, come and listen to Leo Burnett U.S.A., one of the world's ND/SMC alums speak about the excitement largest advertising agencies, and we are of a media career in advertising. 
comi~g to Notre Dame and St. Mary's to All students are welcome to join us for recrwt for our Media Department. 
one of our two on-campus presentations. 
Thursday, November 21,3:00 p.m. • Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall (SMC) Thursday, November 21, 7:00p.m. • Alumni Room, Morris Inn 

Leo Burnett Company, Inc. 

Wednesday, November 20, 1991 

Shevardnaze to return as foreign minister 
MOSCOW (AP) -Eduard Shevardnadze is returning as Soviet foreign minister, officials announced Tuesday, giving an immediate boost to his long­time friend Mikhail Gorbachev's struggle to revive Kremlin authority. 
The reappointment of She­vardnadze, who helped end the Cold War but then quit as for­eign minister last December, warning of dictatorship in the Kremlin, drew immediate praise from President Bush and other Western leaders. 
"We know him well and have great respect for him," Bush told reporters as he met in the White House with Alexander Yakovlev, another member of the original Gorbachev team that began the perestroika re­forms. 
The genial, white-haired She­vardnadze, 63, and other Soviet leaders had no immediate pub­lic comment on the appoint­mont, but state TV called it "just as sensational" as his resignation 11 months ago. 
The appointment bolstered world confidence in Gorbachev as he struggled to forge a new confederation among the re­maining 12 Soviet republics and persuade them to assume re­sponsibility for the $81 billion Soviet debt. 
"In a particularly difficult moment for the U.S.S.R., the return of Shevardnadze ... will contribute to giving the world a guarantee of having in Moscow not only secure, but also trust­worthy and capable partners in dialogue," Italian Foreign Min­ister Gianni De Michelis said. 
The reappointment was the latest turn in a remarkable life. Shevardnadze had made a ca­reer in the Communist Party and police apparatus in his na­tive Georgia until Gorbachev surprised the world by naming him foreign minister in 1985. 
As Gorbachev's chief emissary to the West, Shevardnadze hammered· out treaties under which the Soviet Union slashed its nuclear and conventional arsenals and agreed to with­draw its armies from eastern Europe. Soviet satellite regimes and the Berlin Wall toppled, en­raging hard-liners. 
Shevardnadze, with a theatri­cal flair, stunned the world last Dec. 20 by telling the Soviet parliament he was resigning because "dictatorship" stalked the Kremlin. 
Less than a month later, So­viet troops cracked down on secessionist Lithuania and Latvia, killing more than 20 people. Last August, Shevard­nadze's chilling prophesy came true, as Communist Party hard­liners tried to overthrow Gor­bachev. 

The Observer page 5 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Music for the masses 

S~int Mary's junior Janine Felder looks over a compact disc yesterday at Tracks. Randy Christopher, a Notre Dame junior, peruses a few of the CO's from Tracks' extensive selection. 


New portions of Dea~d Sea Scrolls published 


NEW YORK (AP) -Three American experts Tuesday an­no~.mced publication of previ­ously unpublished portions of the Dead Sea Scrolls, further breaking a small group of re­searchers' 40-year stranglehold on the documents. 
Access to the scrolls has been guarded jealously by an eight­member committee of Israel­based researchers dubbed "the cartel" by critics. 
In recent months, two Ameri­can institutions published por­tions of the scrolls in defiance of the committee. 
Tuesday's announcement of publication of "A facsimile Edition of the Dead Sea Scrolls," a two-volume set, takes the academic revolt a major step further by offering the 20 percent of scroll material never before seen, in addition to what was published but not readily available to all scholars. 
"This represents the last stage in the breaking of the monopoly. Now there will be absolute, total public access," said Professor Robert Eisen­man, chairman of religious studies at California State Uni­versity in Long Beach and co­editor of the book. 
Hershel Shanks, publications editor for the Washington, D.C.­based Biblical Archeology Society that is publishing the book, also announced a new In­stitute for Dead Sea Scr.olls Studies, where scholars may study the manuscripts and ex­change information. 
The scrolls were discovered in caves near the Dead Sea in 1947. Scholars believe they were written by members of a Jewish sect around the time of Jesus. 
While some 300 scrolls have 

When the Great AmericanDream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
Eugene Ulrich 
been published elsewhere, crit­ics charge that the committee's editors have released only about 100 in nearly 40 years, denying a rich lode of history to scholars. 
"What enormous hubris and greed it was fot eight men to think that in their lifetime they could edit and write commen­taries on all of this material," said Shanks, a leading foe of the committee. 
Eisenman said the 1,787 pho­tographs of scrolls in the new books were delivered to him over a two-year period by an anonymous source. 
He said he didn't know who thA sourr.P. was. hut believed it was no one connected with the Israel committee or with either of the institutions that recently released material, the Hurfting­ton Library in San Marino, Calif., and Hebrew Union Col­lege in Cincinnati. 

Professor Eugene Ulrich of Notre Dame University, a committee editor who denies that the group has withheld data unfairly, called the Eisen­man-Robinson book "grandstanding" and "ethically questionable." 
Ulrich added, however: "I would hope this will bring some peace and rest to the troubled waters of the Dead Sea Scrolls project ... I would like to see (Shanks) and his colleagues de­cide they've gotten enough ku­dos that they can get out of the warfare mentality." 
Eisenman and his co-editor, Professor James Robinson, chairman of religion at Califor­nia's Claremont College gradu­ate school, said they had no doubt that the anonymously donated photographs were au­thentic. 
Drop-in Night for 
WALLVB 


~~~I 

Friday, November 22 7pm -11pm Joyce ACC racquetball courts 2A & 28 
Bring a four person team or come and meet new friends No advance registration necessary Play as many games as you wish Sponsored by RecSports 

It's off the wall • • • 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, NOV.14 

7:!7 a.m. Notre Dame Security and Fire 
Department treated an Injured Keenan 
resident and assisted in transporting the 
student from the JACC to Memorial 
Hospital. 
1:30 p.m. A minor automobile accident occurred in the C-1 parking lot. There were no Injuries In the accident. 
4:44 p.m. Notre Dame Security and Fire Department treated a sick Badin resident and then assisted In transporting the student to the St. Joseph Medicel Center. 
11:32 p.m. A University employee re­ported the vandalism of her vehicle which was parked at the Hesburgh Ubrary Circle. 
FRIDAY, NOV. 15 

1:26 a.m. Notre Dame Security and Fire Department treated an intoxicated Breen· Phillips resident and then assisted In transporting her to the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
1:21 p.m. Notre Dame Security assisted In transporting a University employee from the Morris Inn to the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
3:50 p.m. Notre Dame Security ap· prehended a Grulla, Texas resident who was shoplifting at the Hammes Bookstore. 
4:45 p.m. An off-campus student reported a suspicious person at the Decio Circle. 
10:45 p.m. The Notre Dame Fire De· partment extinguished an oven fire in the North Dining Hall. 
SATURDAY, NOV.16 

1:05 p.m. A P. W. resident reported that she lost a change purse between her dormitof'y and the B-16 parking lot. 
8:32 p.m. A Notre Dame Security Olflcer confiscated alcohol from a South Bend resident who was in violation of the Univel'$lty Alcohol Polley. 
SUNDAY, NOV.17 

12:00 a.m. A Student Security Officer reported vandalism to the Golf Pro Shop sign at tile Rockne Memorial Building. 
8:44 a.m. A University employee reported vandalism to a window at South Dining Hall. 
8:34 p.m. An Injured Badin Hall resident was transported to the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
page6 The Observer Wednesday, November 20, 1991 
AIDS drug Lehder testifies against effects all 'corrupt police officer' 
MIAMI (AP) -Carlos Lehder, who once threatened to flood

users equally 
the United States with cocaine, 
CHICAGO (AP)-The coun­testified in Manuel Noriega's try's most widely used AIDS­drug trial Tuesday that the fighting drug appears to work ousted Panamanian ruler was just as well for women and mi­just another "corrupt police norities as it does for white officer." men, according to two studies. Lehder is serving a sentence 
of life without parole plus 135 
Researchers on both studies years for running more than cautioned that their reviews of three tons of cocaine to Florida the drug AZT were limited and and Georgia through the urged further study. Bahamas. Manuel Noriega 
Their findings should calm He testified that the Medellin Lehder, for the first time, I some of the fear raised earlier drug cartel became aware of admitted he committed the acts this year by a government Noriega in the late 1970s when he was charged with in his
I 
I study suggesting AZT might be one of its members was 1988 conviction, which his I less effective for some groups. arrested and beaten in Panama attorneys are still appealing. He r said an editorial accompanying and forced to pay the said he actually smuggled 15 I the two new reports in Wednes­Panamanian leader $250,000. tons of cocaine into the United r day's Journal of the American States. r Medical Association. The Medellin cocaine cartel He said he bought Norman's r decided "either to bribe him or Cay in the Bahamas in the late r The issue of AZT's effective­to fight him," Lehder said, 1970s for $1.2 million in drug r ness across racial, ethnic and calling Noriega "just another profits. He allegedly paidr gender lines is particularly im­criminally corrupt police officer Bahamian Prime Minister
I 
portant because minorities and in Panama." Lynden Pindling for protection,
I 
women represent a growing Lehder said he never met a charge Pindling has strongly
I I 
number of AIDS cases. While Noriega, but heard much about denied. rates of newly acquired infec­him in cartel "round tables" "When I purchased the island, tion by HIV, the virus that held to solve problems. I established a (cocaine) causes AIDS, in this country He said the cartel struck a pipeline into the United States," appear to have stabilized or de­deal with Panama in February he said. clined in homosexual men, they1 1982, after Noriega helped win But he said that in 1981 he have not subsided in blacks, the release of kidnapping victim had to flee the Bahamas Hispanics, women and intra­Marta Ochoa, a sister of the because local officials and U.S. venous drug users, researchers cartel's Ochoa brothers. drug authorities closed down said. In return for $1,000 per his operations. 
lt had been widely assumed kilogram of cocaine shipped When he was arrested after a that AZT was equally effective through Panama to the United fire fight in Colombia in 1987. for AIDS patients regardless of States, Noriega gave cartel U.S. authorities boasted he was their race or sex, but a report pilots a special frequency to use the biggest drug catch ever up in February conducted by the when landing in Panama, to that time. Department of Veterans Affairs Lehder said. Noriega's Prosecutors called him "the seemed to question that intelligence agents met the Henry Ford of the cocaine premise. planes and helped store the trade" because he modernized 
lt said AZT slowed develop­cocaine, he said. drug delivery routes to the ment of AIDS symptoms when All arrangements were kept United States from Colombia. given to white patients who compartmentalized and only were infected with the virus but Noriega and the cartel were Lehder gave television had not yet developed the dis­aware of all the details, Lehder interviews from a Colombian ease -but didn't do the same said. He was to continue jungle hideaway, showed a for blacks and Hispanics. testifying Wednesday. fondness for Adolf Hitler and 
• He agreed to testify in return built a statue of the 
The VA report stirred contro­for better treatment and other assassinated Beatie John versy despite the author's considerations including the Lennon on his ranch ­warning that results were only possible reduction of his complete with a bullet hole. 
Senior Mark Reuter tends the flag for fellow senior Matt Heslin. The

preliminary and based on a sentence. But prosecutors deny He even organized his own
Zahm Hall residents found time for a round of golf at the Burke

limited study group. he has been promised an political party to fight "U.S.
Memorial Golf Course during unseasonably warm weather.

Researchers on the two latest eventual release. imperialism." studies reviewed studies of the drug dating to 1987 -this time pulling out data on women and 
Reputed· mobster sentenced to 6 1/2 years
minorities. They did not look back at the VA study. HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) -Federal prosecutors argued who described him in letters as family boss Nicholas Bianco ­Reputed mobster Americo during his trial that Petrillo a warm and generous man. are scheduled for sentencing 
"We found there is no evi­"Cigars" Petrillo was sentenced owned the South End Social Petrillo also was fined beginning Nov. 25. dence to ... prove that AZT was Tuesday to 6 1/2 years in prison Club, a rundown hall in Hart­$25,000 and placed on three Raymond "Junior" Patriarca, any less beneficial in blacks or for using a social club as a front ford that was a front for the years probation during which who headed the organization Hispanics or drug users or for the Patriarca crime family's mob's illegal card and dice time he is not allowed to gam­until his arrest in 1990, is being women," said Stephen Lagakos, gambling operations. games and bookmaking activi­ble. He also must attend Gam­held without bail while awaiting lead author of one of the new Petrillo, 57, of Old Saybrook, ties. blers Anonymous meetings. trial in Boston. 


studies and professor of bio­ was one of eight members of  Petrillo's attorney, Richard  On Nov. 5, Nevas sentenced  
statistics at Harvard University  the New England mob who  Cramer, said although Petrillo  Salvatore "Butch" D'Aquila, 51,  
School of Public  Health in  were convicted in August on  participated in gambling, he  to 15 years in prison for being a  
Boston.  federal racketeering charges.  was not the ringleader. Petrillo  principal  in  a  gambling  
Researchers noted that the  Assistant U.S. Attorney John  scoffed at·the government's de­ operation and for acting as a  
two  new  studies should be  Durham argued for a prison  piction of him as a gambling  lookout during the burial of a  
viewed cautiously for the same  sentence, saying if Petrillo went  czar and sometimes laughed  Boston hotel executive at a se­ 
reason that the VA study was­ free, he would assume control  during testimony.  cret mob graveyard in Hamden.  
because none of the three were  of the crime family, which was  U.S. District Judge Alan Nevas  Louis Failla, a mob soldier, is  
originally designed to make  left in disarray in a tri-state  sentenced  Petrillo  to  the  scheduled to be sentenced on  
race or sex comparisons.  sweep of 21 reputed mobsters  maximum penalty - despite  Friday. The remaining five de­ 
in 1990.  appeals from family and friends  fendants -including reputed  

Reduce Reuse Recycle 


Class of 93: 
Interested in getting involved in the Junior Class Play? Those interested in directing, stage managing or publicity, please contact Sonia Miller X 4704. Any suggestions welcome. Acting auditions will be held at the beginning of second semester. Watch for signs. 

Viewpoint 

Wednesday, November 20, 1991 Page 7 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of tho University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessaril)r reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported a!> accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion oi the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Win or lose, a visit to ND is a moment to remembe1r 

Dear Editor: 
To lose by 10 points hurts. To lose by 1 point hurts even more. Why do so many fans seek tickets to an Irish game when they can watch it from the comfort of their living rooms and avoid the traffic? Because you really haven't seen the Irish spirit until you've been to the ND stadium, live. 
To get the true aspect of the game, one need to fight the Friday night traffic to attend the pep rally. If the traffic doesn't get the blood pumping, the rally will. 
Don't miss the tailgate party, or the walk along US 33-where you'll see visitors from as far away as California toting signs "in hopes" of purchasing tickets-at any price. 
Sure, ND wants to win-but if they don't-nobody walks away a loser. For they have purchased a ticket to a memory that will live on in their hearts forever! There are no sad faces with exception of a brief look of defeat upon those of the players. But once the cameras are gone, the grief is too, for the Irish spirit is something that cannot be defeated, no matter what the score. 
Marsha L. Sl:sk North Dining H11111 Nov.11, 19!~1 

Limiting films will only promote censorship 
Dear Editor: 
I was amazed to see Professor Rice's editorial about "Madonna: Truth or Dare" (The Observer, Nov. 12). In simple terms, he was advocating a form of cen­sorship. This, from a professor in our Law School who is sup­posed to be teaching his stu­dents the value of the First Amendment. 
From the way he wrote his editorial, I do not find any evi­dence that he has even seen the film. All he does is quote other writers that reviewed the film when it was released. If he had not seen the film before writing about it, and even if he has, he is wrong to advocate censorship. 
The film in question did con­tain some explicit material, but that is why it received the rating it did. The students and faculty at this University are mature enough to see the film. For those who were not open­minded enough to see the mm. it did have some merit to it, both as an art film and as a documentary. 
Granted, it was more than enough Madonna to satisfy me until I die, but it was interesting. It was valuable as an artistic film, because the director used some very interesting techniques to visually express the persona of Madonna. As a documentary, it gave insight into one of the most interesting characters of popular culture. 

This type of insight is valuable to understand why she is so popular and why she is doing what she does. As an artist, she wants to push the limits of self-expression. In America, she has that right, and a university in South Bend should not have the power to deny this right. 
When Professor Rice wrote about the choice of films at the Snite, his statements angered me even more. The Last Temptation of Christ, by most standards, could be considered blasphemous, if taken literally. This film, like most other art, should not be interpreted literally. If one views the film with an understanding that it is not an actual portrayal of the adult life of Jesus, one will gain an interesting view of the human­ity of Jesus. 
View it for the ideas, not the story. I thought it did a remarkable job to show the humanity of Jesus while it portrayed the divinity as well. 
Professor Rice, and anyone else who agrees with him, the Snite. does not need "fumigation" or "demonstration." The films that Rice has a problem with are intended for an open­minded adult. If he does not want to see them, he does not have to. That is the beauty of America. People have the right to choose what to see, to hear, and to speak. This right should not be infringed upon by anyone, let alone a university. 
The purpose of a university is to expose its students to new ideas and new ways of expres­sion. To advocate censorship at the University of Notre Dame is wrong and goes against this fundamental purpose of a university. 
Rice also makes an interesting point about the fact that ND is a "Catholic" university. What people need to remember is the original meaning of this word. "Catholic" means "universal." I'm not advocating the idea that ND move away from pro­moting Roman Catholic ideals, but it needs to promote universal ideas as well. 
Professor Rice also should remember that the best law school in the nation sponsors an X-rated film festival every year. Yale believes in the First Amendment. I hope Notre Dame will continue to believe in it as well. 
Matthew C. Mohs Flanner Hall Nov. 17, 1991 


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOU KN()(A), THE M()<£ I THINK AFJafTI~ THE MrF& I THINK K/MetRJ.-/N M/6HT !<N(}t(J SOM/377-IIN6 ABCUTAU 7HI!3... 
\ 
7Hc AI.JTHORITIES IAJtNT WAN AWFUl,. WTrF 7ROU8/.l3 JUST 7D KliePA CON FRf.J1I1 MAKING 50Mf3 MARIJUANA OiAR13eS 7HATMOST Pf3{Pf,£ tu0f.JI.-I?N78UI/31&ANYMY 5Q'rft7HIN6'S VeRYt=/!!HYHeR£, ANI?I'M GOING 7D GeT 7D 7HI3 80TTOM fF IT1 
~ 

IAJ/t-{.,. lH£3 PAP&R PRDVI/J& fORMeANP NOTSUI?£3. 
7HEOf!W2 I'!? J<&eP YWRJOB.
I 

\ 
'I feel like I'm trying to win something from a radio station.' 
A frustrated student In the Registrar's office DARTing 
beeep ... I'm sorry ... I'm sorry ... submit 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
Viewpoint

PageS Wednesday, November 20, 1991 
LE II ERS TO THE EDITOR 
Papal teachings proscribe the ordination of women 
Dear Editor: 
The Observer of Oct. 15 re­counted what has become an annual Notre Dame rite-a statement by the Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the 
r 
Ordination of Women ,r (CNDPOW). "How come," said a spokesman for CNDPOW, "we r (Notre Dame) can certify just
r 
r about every calling and profes­sion (for women) and we will
r 
fight like blazes to stand by our
r 
certification, but we won't do it 
r with women and the priest­hood?" The answer, shortly, is that a vocation to the priest­hood is a call from Christ acting ~ through his mystical body, the Catholic Church. Notre Dame is neither Christ nor the Church. 
Notre Dame does present it­self, especially to alumni and others, as a Catholic university. Yet Notre Dame, by its own r choice, is legally a secular cor­r poration. If Notre Dame is r secular and not Catholic, why r should anyone care what its r position is on the ordination' of 
r 
r 
women, any more than one should care about the position on the subject of General Motors or the Kiwanis Club? 
If, however, Notre Dame is Catholic, as it claimS" to be and as CNDPOW claims it to be, that identity carries with it an obligation of institutional fi­delity to the clear position of the Catholic Church, as enunciated by the Vicar of Christ. 
The periodic CNDPOW state­ments convey the impression that the issue of ordination of women is an open, politicized one of civil rights. Unfortunately, Notre Dame students are not likely to have had the opportunity in their theological studies to experi­ence an adequate presentation of the Papal teaching on this, or any other, subject. In fact, the position of the Church on the ordination of women is clear and settled. 
In his address to the American bishops, in Los Angeles on Sept. 16, 1987, Pope John Paul II stated that, "women are not called to the pries.thood. Although the teaching of the Church on this point is quite clear, it in no way alters the fact that women are indeed an essential part of the Gospel plan to spread the Good News of the kingdom. And the Church is irrevocably commit­ted to this truth." (Emphasis in original) 
On Jan. 30 1977, Pope Paul VI said, "Why can men alone and not women, too, receive the priesthood? Let us note straight off that disparity of function does not imply unequal dignity in the objective order of grace nor, consequently, any in­feriority in the order of love and holiness (Gal 3, 28). In this hierarchy, as Mary shows, women can occupy the highest places and this not merely as passive recipients of grace but as active practitioners of the great virtues which have such a wide and beneficent influence on society. 
The reason for the disparity of function is Christ's decision in giving the Church her fundamental structure and her theological anthropology. The perennial tradition of the Church reflects that original determination . . . . Moreover, now that an answer has been given to this question, which some intemperate feminists have rendered unnecessarily vexing, We urge women to real­ize that the Church has no in­tention of underestimating the 
. precious role they are called to play in the overall plan of God's k;ingdom and in the temporal sphere as well." Three months earlier, on Oct. 15, 1976, Pope Paul VI had ap­proved and ordered the pro­mulgation of the Declaration on the Ordination of Women, by 


the Congregation for the 
Doctrine of the Faith. The 
Declaration stated that, 
"complying with a mandate of 
the Holy Father and adhering to 
what he himself wrote in his 
Letter of Nov. 30, 1975, [the 
Congregation] believes it neces­
sary to assert that the Church, 
which intends to be faithful to 
the Lord's example, does not 
regard herself as having the 
authority to admit women to 
priestly ordination . . . . The 
Catholic Church has never held 
the view that prieStly or episco­
pal ordination can be validly 
conferred upon women." 
In a passage that ought to be required reading for CNDPOW members, the Declaration stated, "In the last analysis, it is for the Church to speak through the magisterium on these matters and to determine which elements of the sacraments are immutable and which are mutable. The Church is convinced that she may not admit certain changes because she knows that Christ has bound her to act in a certain way . . . . The Church's practice thus has normative value for her. Behind her practice of conferring priestly ordination only on males lies a tradition 


coterminous with the history of the Church, universal through­out east and west, and ever watchful in order quickly to suppress abuses. 
Such a norm, based on the example of Christ, has been followed in the past and is being followed today because it is regarded as conformed to God's plan for his Church." 
"It is necessary," said the Declaration, "to keep before our minds how much the Church differs from other societies and how utterly unique her nature and structure are . . . . Moreover, and especially, one would seriously mistake the nature of ministerial priesthood were one to account it as a right all human beings have; baptism does not give anyone a right to exercise a public ministry in the Church. 
Priesthood is conferred upon a person, not for his honor or personal advantage but for the service of God and the Church. It is the object of a special and completely unmerited call: 'It was not you who chose me; it was I who chose you' (Jn 15, 16; see Heb 5, 4) It is said at times, and frequently repeated in books and periodicals, that there are women who feel themselves called to the priest­hood. 
Such an inclination, however, though noble and quite understandable, is not enough to prove a genuine vocation; a vocation is not reducible to a simple interior inclination, which of itself is purely subjective. Since priesthood is a special ministry of which the Church has charge and control, a vocation also requires authentication by the Church as a constitutive element, for Christ chose 'the men he himself had decided on' (Mk 3, 13). 
On the other hand, all the baptized do have a call to exercise the royal priesthood by offering their lives to God and bearing witness so that God is praised. Women who say they seek the ministerial priesthood are undoubtedly impelled by the desire to serve Christ and the Chur"ch. 
Nor is it surprising that, having once become fully aware of the discrimination to which they have been subjected in the past in the civil sphere, they should desire the ministerial priesthood. We must not overlook, however, the fact that the priesthood is not something to which the human person has an inherent right but depends on the working out of the mys­tery of Christ and his Church." 
The teaching of the Church is firm on this issue. And it is ev­ident that John Paul II repre­sents the wave of the future for the Church. His appeal to youth throughout the world is magnetic and increasing. The post-Vatican II decline in voca­tions is turning around for re­ligious congregations, male and female, loyal to the Pope. 
The same trend can be seen in some dioceses where the emphasis is on fidelity to prayer, the sacraments and the teachings of the Vicar of Christ. On the other hand, the adherents of the "Church-of­where-it's-at" are fading leftovers of the sixties. They see the Church in political terms and they would manipulate it as they would a political movement or the Congress. 
The Catholic Church, however, is not like that. Instead of playing pressure group politics with the Church, the members of CNDPOW would do better to encourage the members of the Notre Dame community to pray, especially the Rosary, for increased vocations to the priesthood and the religious life. And it is about time for the Holy Cross priests at Notre Dame to speak out in support of the Papal teachings on this and other points. 
Prof. Charles E. Rice Notre Dame Law School Nov.1, 1991 

Campus organizations launching awareness campaign 
Dear Editor: 
A coalition of campus organi­zations will launch a campaign to raise awareness about sexual harassment and sexual assault at Notre Dame. We recognize the need for such a program in order to raise awareness about these problems. We hope that by sponsoring such a program the number of such incidences will decrease. 
The campaign includes several Observer ads explaining the myths and realities of sexual harassment and sexual assault. We hope to dispel some commonly held misconceptions through these ads. 
Besides the series of ads, a letter will be sent to each stu­dent from a victim or from a person related to a victim. There will also be a panel dis­cussion headed by Ms. Laurel Eslinger of Sex Offense Services on Wednesday, Dec. 4, at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. We hope that this will provide students an opportunity to voice their concerns, questions, and opinions. 
The campaign will culminate in a tvyo-page article in which we hope to illustrate specific incidences of sexual harass­ment and assault here at Notre Dame. Foremost, we are ask­ing that if you or someone you know has had an experience of harassment or assault to write anonymously to Student Government. Such letters will be vital to the campaign and will be considered confidential. 
The address for letters is: Student Government, 2nd Floor LaFortmie. 
Sheila Buckman 
Women's Concerns 
Commission for Student 
Government 
Karen Slawner 
Graduate Women's Resource 
Committee 
Missy Skeiman 
. CARE 
Laura Mollach 
Executive Coordinator of 
Student Life 


Accent 


Wednesday, November 20, 1991 page9 

John O'Brien Rockne's Lovechild 
If you got the money, we got the room 
I 
read with great interest the whole saga that took place during the men's interhall 
• football playfoffs. Cit's a rehaldshamehthat 
the Vermin rom arro11 a to 6g t so 
gallantly, only to have their victory taken 
away from them. 
But as I read about how Carroll was forced to 
forfeit a game because three of their players 
were ineligible, I wasn't thinking that Carroll 
had cheated or that the interhall officials had 
made a mistake. 
The thing that struck me about the whole mess was that two of those players who live in Carroll don't even go to Notre Dame. There are quite a few students from Holy Cross College that live in the apartments around me, and they're all great people. "Why, then, don't they live at Notre Dame?" I wondered aloud. 
The question was answered when I realized 
who these two players are. It all seems to fit 
now. If you have the clout (or more importantly, 
the money) you can get anything you want at 
Notre Dame. 
I have this friend named Matt. He's from 
about the same financial background as my­
self-modest by Notre Dame's standards. Well, 
Matt, you see, transferred to Notre Dame last 
year. Hoping to live on campus, he contacted the 
Office of Student Residences. 
"Sorry, there's no room in the Inn," they said, 
to quote that Book we know so well. 
Hmm ... if there was indeed no room on 
campus for Notre Dame students, how come 
there are two (and maybe more) Holy Cross 
students living here? 
In the words of a representative from Student Hesidences, "Special exceptions were made by the Officers of the University." Hmm... 
In an Observer EXCLUSIVE! I have discovered 
the guidelines the Officers of the University use 
for making these " special exceptions." 
First, a $100,000 donation will allow you to take all the food out of the dining halls that you'd like-get this-including Yo-Cream! 
A $500,000 donation will allow you and all your roommates to carry liquor across campus in-get this-unsuitable packaging! 
For a cool million, you can have either the Irish women's volleyball team or the men's hoops squad come over and give you a rub down-nightly. 
If you donate enough to build, say, a new dorm, you get any room on campus you want! Okay, so that's a little far-fetched. Sorry. 
If you donate enough for two dorms, you not only get a room, but cable television, too. 
If you give the University enough to create a new quad, high-ranking University officials will baby-sit your grandchildren. . 
Lou lloltz will personally wean them and Monk will teach them how to play basketball. Throw in another building, and Patricia O'Hara will handle the discipline. 
Looking at all of these guidelines, it's apparent that people like Matt and I don't really have the bucks to get what we want at ND. 
I, for one, would like cable, but two dorms are a little out of my parents' reach. I do think they could help me on one thing, though. 
Like most Arts and Letters students, I need classes. In fact, English 300A looks good, but it's closed. 
1\s I look at the guidelines, I see that there are no provisions for "exceptions" for classes. So I've looked around campus and found some­thing that my parents can afford: One of those brick things they have on Fieldhouse Mall. 
Okay, how much can a brick platform with a plaque on it cost? A couple thousand tops. Surely Mom and Pops could chalk that up. Well, at least they would if they loved me. 
John O'Brien is Accent Editor ofThe Observer. 1/is columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
Fa-la-la-la-la... 
Home for Christmas CD features local celebrities to benefit youth fund 

By JOHN RYAN Accent Writer 
It's Christmas season once again, and the students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are beginning to feel the excitement and bustle that sur­rounds the holiday season. If you're searching for the perfect gift for the family or friends, search no further. The ultimate Christmas album is here on compact disc: Acorn Records' "Home For Christmas." 

The recording was actually the easiest part, thanks to the cooperation of the performers. Arranging the publicity, marketing, financing, and the manufacturing of the disc presented the largest obstacles, making the project "an arduous process for sure," according to Oake. 
The performers on "Home For Christmas" range from Lou Holtz, the Notre Dame head football coach, to Big Daddy TC from the radio 
"Home For------------station Jam 910 Christmas" is a 'Christmas is the time a.m. Many local special charity f · · d p e r f o r m e r s 
recording that will 0 giVIng, an showcase their benefit the YMCA Certainly there iS nO talents on the disc Urban Youth greater gift than that as well. 
Scholarship Fund. Those who Many local celebrities Of OppOrtUnity.' contributed their and performers -Mayor Joo Kernan talents to the effort 
contributed their time and efforts to help the production of the holiday disc. 
The album was the brainchild of Cyril Oake, who is the producer for Acorn Records. An Ind. native, Oake lived and taqght in the projects of Brooklyn, N.Y., for several years before returning to Ind. a year ago. "I saw the same street violence going on here that reminded me of Brooklyn," said Oake. 
Through meetings with Charles Martin of the YMCA, Oake came up with the idea for the disc. Although the production dido 't begin until August, Acorn "decided to go through with it even though it was a late start," Oake commented. 

waived all rights 
and did not ask for compensation for their time. "Most were pretty excited just to get the exposure," said Oake. 
A wide variety of music styles appear on the benefit disc, so that it may have a more uo.iversal appeaL "Go Santa Go," performed by the Alter Egos, is a throwback to the Buddy Holly days of the Fifties. A touch of soul and R&B is added to selections such as "Have Yourself A Merry Little Christmas," and the Bushwacker Band performs "If Santa Claus Don't Come Tonight" with a little country flavor. A humorous rendition of "The Twelve Days of Christmas" was put together With the help of many of the local radio and television personalities. 
Acorn records also tapped into the talents of Notre Dame for the holiday disc. The Notre Dame Glee Club sings "Ave Maria," and a group of students and faculty performs the Irish classic "Seamaisin" with a Gaelic passage read by Michael McGettrick. 
The main attraction to the disc may be Lou Holtz's recitation of "The Night Before Christmas." Oake believes Holtz, perhaps the most well known celebrity on the disc, will help sell more copies. 
Oake is already planning to produce a "Home For Christmas II" for next year, and he hopes to draw some more Hoosier celebrities such as David Letterman, Jane Pauley, and maybe even Larry Bird. This would give the benefit disc a stronger national impact. . 
"Home For Christmas," although comprised of local performers, is being distributed nationally through Vinyl Vendors, and is being adver­tised through publications such as "Blue and Gold." It can be purchased by telephone (800-678-NUTS) with a Visa or Mastercard. 
When planning your Christmas shopping this season, keep in mind "Home For Christmas." It will provide hours of holiday entertainment, and the money spent will help the disadvantaged youth in the area go to college. As South Bend mayor Joe Kernan says in the album's introduction, "Christmas is the time of giving, and certainly there is no greater gift than that of 
--· 

opportunity." 

Accent

page 10 Wednesday, November 20, 1991 
Good things 


from the 
BoDeans 


By Rich Kurz and Jen Marten Accent Writers 
Even though only two acts were listed on the bill ofperformers, four separate sounds filled Stepan Center last night. 
After opening act Will T. Massey warmed up two-thirds full Stepan, the BoDeans took the stage and treated the crowd to three distinctly different sounds. 
The group opened with a number of songs from their first few albums, "Love & Hope & Sex & Dreams," and "Outside Looking In," belying their origins in the Milwaukee bar scene. 
After opening with "Fadeway," the group switched gears playing the mellower "Dreams," before encouraging crowd participation on "If I Could Hold You Tonight." 
"Paradise," the first song performed. off their most recent album, "Black and White," sent a wave of energy through the crowd, and for the rest of the evening the band received a great deal of support from the audience. This song featured a more poppish feel, emphasizing Michael Ramos' keyboards. 
Vocalists Sammy Llanas and Kurt Neumann shared responsibilities on the mike, complementing each other nicely. Llanas' deep-throated, gravelly voice contrasted Neumann's more melodic sound. Despite apologies for Llanas' vocal problems, his unique sound disguised whatever trouble he may have had. 
"Good Things," a song which has encountered some success on the pop charts, proved to be one of the big hits of the first set, with the crowd filling in the responses on a couple of occasions. The group finished the first set with "Ultimately Fine," from the "Love & Hope" album. 
Ramos, bassist Bobby Griffin and drummer Danny Gayol took a break, leaving Llanas and Neumann alone on stage. The pair showed yet another side, performing a three-song acoustic set harkening back to their first sound. 
The rest of the band returned for a rocking cross-section, encompassing songs from all of their albums, with "Do I Do," from the latest album, gathering a huge response from the 

The Observer/ Marguerite Schrupp The BoDeans, a band originating in Milwaukee, played at Stepan Center last night (below), featuring songs from their latest album (above), "Black and White." 
crowd. "Say About Love" closed the second set. 
The crowd, eage'r for an encore, showed its desire with the cheer performed during kickoffs of Irish football games, and the BoDeans responded. After Neumann called the cheer "one of the coolest things" he's ever heard, the crowd repeated it, much to his delight. 
"Say You Will," from the first album, was the first song of the encore, followed by "Naked." An exceptional version of "Good Work" ended the concert on a high note. 
The music was complemented with a colorful lighting display, which was effective despite being simplistic for this age of multi-million dollar light shows. 
Will T. Massey opened the show with an acoustic set. His voice, somewhere in between John Mellencamp and Bruce Springsteen, helped to carry his folk-rock numbers. 
CLOSED COURSES  BIOS  411 L  0 1  0287  ENGL  512  0 1  2719  MBA  &:is  0 1  2852  ROFR  482  0 1  3515  CLASSES THAT  WILL  REOPEN  AT  7:00  P.M.  
ACCT 2:12 0 1 ACCT 23:1 02 ACCT 232 03 ACCT 232 04 ACCT 232 OS ACCT 232 01 ACCT 232 07 ACCT 232 01 ACCT 232 01 ACCT 232 1 0 ACCT 372 02 ACCT 372 04 ACCT 372 0 5 ACCT 310 02 ACCT 310 04 ACCT 473 0 1 ACCT 473 02 ACCT 478 0 1 ACCT 471 0 2 ACCT 471 01 AERO 441L 0 1 AERO 441L 02 AERO 441 L 3 AFAII 358 AFAU 372 AFAII 311 AFAII 420 AFAU 451 AFAII 454 AIIST 3110 AIIST 451 AIIST 410 ANTH 324 ANTH 321 ANTH 330 ANTH 351 ANTH 3115 ANTH 388 ANTH 3811 ANTH 431 1 ANTH 431 A 0 1 ANTH 454 0 1 ARHI 161 0 1 ARHI 452 0 1 ARHI 4511 0 1 ARHI 462 01 ARHI 411 0 1 ARHI 496 0 1 ARST 134S 0 1 ARST 150K 0 1 ARST 232S 0 1 ARST 242S 0 1 ARST 246S 0 1 ARST 2925 0 1 ARST 310S 0 1 BA 312 0 1 8A 313 04 8A 311 0 1 8A 3111 02 8A 381 03 BA 464 0 1 8A 415 01 8A 4110 01 BA 410 04 BA 410 05 BA 410 011 BA 410 07 BIOS 407L 01  OliiO 0111 0112 0113 0514 0585 0581 0117 0111 0581 06114 01111 2110 Dill 0100 0101 2112 2814 0102 0106 0114 0115 3141 3445 3041 3441 3447 3311 2117 3571 3042 3011 3434 0212 0210 3436 2801 3154 3431 3442 3443 2812 0735 3210 2816 3111 3521 3124 0754 3528 0761 0762 2922 0766 0768 0838 0843 0214 27311 2735 2111 3711 0145 0841 0849 0850 3788 0876  CAPP 243 0 1 CAPP 316 0 1 CAPP 331 0 1 CAPP 3&1 1 CAPP 311 1 CHEll 204 1 CHIOII 32ZL 2 CHEM 334L 2 CLAS 380 1 CLAS 423 1 CLAS 427 1 CLAS 442 1 COTH 435 1 CSE 322L 1 ECON 330 1 ECON 350 2 ECON 380 1 ECON 417 0 1 ECON 421 0 1 ECON 451 0 1 ECON 471 0 1 ECON 488 0 1 EE 340L 02 EE 354 02 EE 361 0 1 EE 361L 0 1 EE 361L 02 EE 361L 0 4 ENGL 300A 0 1 ENGL 300C 0 1 ENOL 312 0 1 ENGL 3148 0 1 ENOL 317C 0 1 ENOL 3118 0 1 ENOL 3118 0 1 ENOL 325 0 1 ENGL 328A01 ENGL 333 0 1 ENGL 340 0 1 ENGL 340T 1 ENGL 340T 2 ENOL 340T 3 ENOL 340T 4 ENOL 381 1 ENGL 403 1 ENOL 413A 1 ENOL 415 ENOL 415E ENOL 415Z ENOL 411A ENOL 4118 ENOL 411C ENOL 422 ENOL 423B ENGL 4218 ENOL 4288 ENGL 434 0 1 ENGL 440A 01 ENOL 451A 01 ENOL 453 0 1 ENGL 463Z 0 1 ENOL 471 0 1 ENGL 472Z 0 1 ENGL 473 0 1 ENOL 479 0 1 ENGL 480Z 0 1 ENGL 413A 0 1 ENGL 4SI3C 0 1 ENGL 487B 01  09611 0 !170 2818 0343 3431 21152 1051 1061 3233 3203 3427 1014 3871 3162 3746 3747 2111 2105 11118 1363 2171 1173 1200 1205 2125 2127 2129 2833 3151 3153 1361 4022 3204 3155 1314 3156 0012 3857 1361 3158 31511 3110 3111 3115 3817 3168 3152 4002 3171 3872 3173 3174 31711 3877 3251 3878 3880 1377 3112 3183 3114 3115 3116 3117 3111 3890 31tl.1 2179 0705  ENGL 544 0 1 ENGL 562 0 1 ENGL 585 0 1 ENOL 51128 01 FIN 360 0 1 FIN 360 03 FIN 360 04 FIN 361 0 1 FIN 361 02 FIN 361 03 FIN 361 04 FIN 361 05 FIN 361 0 6 FIN 361 07 FIN 370 0 1 FIN 370 02 FIN 370 03 FIN 473 0 1 FIN 475 0 1 FIN 476 0 1 GE 313 0 1 GOYT 342T 0 1 GOVT 342T 02 GOVT 343T 03 GOVT 407 0 1 GOVT 401 01 GOVT 424 0 1 GOVT 427 0 1 GOVT 441 0 1 GOVT 441 0 1 GOVT 458 0 1 GOVT 415 0 1 GSC 204 0 1 GSC 234 0 1 GSC 242 0 1 GSC 348 0 1 GSC 3110 0 1 GSC 403 0 1 GSC 4238 0 1 GSC 425 01 GSC 4411 0 1 GSC 472S 0 1 GSC 483A01 GSC 483C 0 1 HIST 342A01 HIST 34BA 0 1 HIST 414A 01 HIST 468A 01 liPS 441 0 1 liPS 475 0 1 LAW 608 01 LAW 601 02 LAW 629B 0 1 LAW 631F 0 1 LAW 6310 01 LAW 695 0 1 LAW 685 03 LAW 685 04 LAW 6115 05 LLRO 331 0 1 IIARK 374 01 MARK 381 0 1 MARK 382 0 1 MARK 492 01 MARK 495 0 1 MATH 323 0 1 MATH 336 0 2 MBA 624 0 1 MBA 625 01  3885 3887 311111 31100 1417 14111 1421 1424 1425 1428 1427 1421 1430 3823 1431 1432 1433 1439 1440 2853 1921 0380 0379 3588 0677 35115 2159 3584 3605 2981 2806 3598 4024 3148 3773 3021 3714 3771 3786 3760 3772 3265 3769 21180 3480 3482 3476 3474 31141 3388 1661 1101 3821 1670 1671 1688 1680 1 6111 16112 3513 .3003 1704 1705 3007 3312 1750 0228 1805 2852  MBA 682 03 ME 41111 0 1 MGT 231 0 1 MGT 231 03 MGT 231 04 MGT 231 05 MGT 231 06 MGT 472 0 1 MGT 481 0 1 Ml 301 01 Ml 333 0 1 Ml 437 0 1 Ml 431 01 MSA 545 0 1 MUS 220 0 1 uus 220 02 II US 220 03 uus 222 0 1 uus 225 01 IIUS 221 01 uus 234 0 1 PHIL 222 01 PHIL 225 01 PHIL 238 0 1 PHIL 240 0 1 PHIL 241 1 PHIL 242 1 PHIL 244 1 PHIL 244 2 PHIL 245 PHIL 241 1 PHIL 246 2 PHIL 241 3 PHIL 2411 4 PHIL 246 5 PHIL 241 PHIL 261 PHIL 281 2 PHIL 263 1 PHIL 264 1 PHIL 265 1 PHIL 265 02 PHIL 265 03 PHIL 268 0 1 PHYS 210 01 PHYS 222L 02 PHYS 222L 04 PLS 462 05 PLS 482 0 1 PSY 342 0 1 PSY 342L 0 1 PSY 373 0 1 PSY 386A 01 PSY 425 0 1 PSY 462 0 1 PSY 475 0 1 PSY 488A01 RLST 213 1 5 RLST 235 1 a RLST 240 21 RLST 240 23 RLST 240 25 RLST 251 33 RLST 281 35 RLST 312 43 RLST 312 45 RLST 310 41 ROFR 435 01 ROFR 450 01  0351 1843 1856 1858 1860 1861 1 86 2 1873 3101 2815 3110 3144 3264 3103 2016 2017 2011 0105 0421 2024 2021 2130 3145 3714 3715 4026 3716 0311 0114 3012 2135 2136 2137 0154 3718 3711 2131 2140 3721 0317 0030 3722 3723 2157 3713 2187 2118 2320 2322 2332 2333 2339 3151 1256 0157 3608 3 611 9515 8519 8521 1523 8525 1533 1535 1543 1545 8549 3506 3505  ROSP 103 03 11158 (IT IIAY BE ONLY ONE OPENING) ROSP 415 0 1 3 4115 soc 214 0 1 3538 ACCT 232 03 0582 soc 220 0 1 0333 ACCT 476 02 0102 soc 300 1 2563 ACCT 471 01 0105 soc 303 1 3088 AERO 441 L 0 1 0114 soc 310 1 3531 ARHI 459 0 1 2816 soc 324 1 3544 BA 363 04 0143 soc 341 3027 BA 311 0 1 0264 soc 373 0328 BA 410 0 1 0145 soc 411 2808 BIOS 407L 0 1 0876 soc 411 3340 EE 3&1 L 02 2821 soc 420 3542 ENGL 471 01 3111 soc 421 3545 RN 360 03 1419 soc 421 3553 RN 360 04 1421 soc 451 3547 FIN 361 06 1430 STY 381 3565 FIN 370 02 1432 STY 453 1 3511 FIN 473 01 14311 THEO 234 1 1128 GOVT 407 01 0677 THEO 235 0 1 2153 GOVT 446 0 1 3605 THEO 235 02 1120 LAW 6115 04 1 691 THEO 237 0 1 0113 PHIL 239 0 1 3714 THEO 243 0'1 2157 PHIL 245 01 3012 THEO 250 0 1 3281 PHIL 246 04 0854 THEO 251 0 1 0053 PHIL 261 02 2140 THEO 254 0 1 0180 PSY 342 01 2332 THEO 251 0 1 3836 RLST 312 4 3 8543 THEO 260 02 3831 soc 373 0 1 0328 THEO 2112 0 1 0118 THEO 243 0 1 2657 THEO 214 0 1 3030 THEO 251 0 1 0053 THEO 265 0 1 21111 THEO 256 0 1 3836 THEO 281 01 3058 THEO 264 0 1 3030 THEO 400 THEO 28101 2143 0 1 3059 THEO 426 0 1 3283 THEO 111 0 1 2705 COURSES ADDED ARCH 5118G 01 14052 • AS/Computera; 3 cr. hra. ARCH 598H 01 14053 · AS/Dulgn Studio; vor. cr. hrs. EE 418R 17 14054 • Undergl'llduete Reaeerch; v•r. cr. hra. COURSE CHANGES MUS 242 01 · tJ01 02 remove prerequlalte MUS 432 01 12050 change prerequisite to MUS 232 MUS 462 01 • _12051 chenge prerequisite to MUS 232  


--~--------------­

Wednesday, November 20, 1991 The Observer page 11 
Boilermakers' frosh ~point guard to be tested in NIT 
The Observer accepts classlfleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at th'! Saint Mary's otllce, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classlfleds is :!p.m. All classifleds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
$40,000/yrl READ BOOKS and TV INDIANA ~UTO INSURANCE. DearZahm, RODENTUS ROOMATUS (a.k.a. DearJD, Scripts. Fill out simple Good rates. Save Money. Call me We admit it. We used illegal AEROBICS WENCH FROM HELL, Thanks so much lor everything I NOTICES "like/don't like" form. EASYI Fun, lor a quote 9:30-6:00, cheerleaders. Please don't protest. DANCE QUEEN, ACCOUNTING Remember, It has to be during the relaxing at home, beach, vacations. 289-1993. Office near campus. Your pals, GODDESS?I?, FUNGUS FACE, summerl Love, Krikri TYPING AVAILABLE Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Keenan BIG WEENIE, MY FAVORITE 287·4082 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 SPECK, RUDE DOG) Don't let the Good luck on Logic Erin DuffeyI 
Copyright #IN11 KEB. --TOM WESTRICK--Abs, gingies get you downI Jam in your Buy and Sell used books --TOM WESTRICK--Can you say Itasca? interview tomorrow. Go get 'em, Molly, Pandora 's Books-newbooks and SPRING BREAK REPS NEEDED --TOM WESTRICK--or It's You're Fault? C$W$1 Knock 'em deadI What was going on when we the NY Times tooll You weenie in INSBRUCK Love, Duane, D.O.,& Bonch Best of luck­walked in last night? corner ol NO ave and Howard EARN CASH AND FREE TRAVEL Angie, Eric, Dave, and BIG J. Rock Kiwi 233-2342/10-5:30 everyday SELLING TRIPS TO JAMAICA, wish you well In that land ol easy Dear Bo, 
CANCUN, AND FLORIDA. CALL "A". I stand, I sit ...Eileen Guitarist/Songwriter looking lor lead I am sorry to see the end of football Word processing IBM Compatible STS @ 1-800-648-4849. May your skiing ever be in those HAPPY BIRTHDAYIIIIII guitarist and bassist to form an season.How 'bout basketball? Extensive experience w/ theses, wonderful mounds of Austrian From NDA to NO we're still together original folk-rock band. Call Nick dissertations, manuscripts, mountains. (Thank G()QI)-Ais x2348 publications, senior projects, etc. FOR RENT Professional results! --TOM AITENTION •••tRISH GARDENs••• 
.~~
277-9273 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY WESTRICK TOM WOOBA WOOBA; LURCH AND 
219-291-7153 WESTRICK TOM MORTICfA; PIGEONS ON FIRE; Wacky Wednesday Special ALTERATIONS AND WESTRICK--BUCK-IN-THE-REARS; AND DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL BEDROOM IN A HOME $200/MO. THINGS THAT GO BOOM IN THE Any Purchase Over $5 259-8684. USE OF ALL UTILITIES, ADOPTION: Proud parents of NIGHT Receive a Free CardII 
LAUNDRY, ETC. adopted toddler eager to find 

!sF.
WORD PROCESSING CALL PAUL 232-2794. newborn to join our family. Our GOOD LUCK AT RED FLAGII ••This weekend Irish Gardens 256·6657 warm and stable home offers will EXTEND hours until FURNISHED APT. NEAR NO security, lots ol adoring relatives PREPARE TO BE 6:30 PMIIIIII Spee-Dee Wordprocessing COZY 2 BDRM. $285 and a life full of love. Please call OVERSHADOWEDII ••Lots of dances come in and 237-1949 DEP. REF. 288-7207. Barb and Dave collecl513-751-pre-order. 

lEAKS
..................
7077. ALL OUR LOVE; 

RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
ECLIPSE 

DAYTONA BEACH ·~ '104 
5 ana 7 NIGHTS
LOST/FOUND Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt. Mother Hystericall HAIL TO THE VICTORS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ..~'128
Furnished. $200. /Mon. Frosh needs ride to Pitt Area. Hey Monica, 

5 AND J NIGHTS
LOST: A GOLD BRACELET OF $150. Dept. Call277-8866 Call x1527 Damian You think I was bad Monday? Just CONGRATULATIONS 
STEAMBOAT ·~'122
GREAT SENTIMENTAL Tues/Sat. 10am/5pm. wait 'til today, I'll show you who the GRACE8-D 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
VALUE-AROUND THE troublemaker is. 1991 SECTION FOOTBALL 
PANAMA CITY BEACH .. •1122 
7 NIGHTS
JACC OR WASHINGTON BB ST. TIX CHEAP II -FL CHAMPIONS HALL. PLEASE CALL 3 BDRM. HOUSE $390 + CALL LISA 4862 
FORT LAUDERDALE ..,m11J6 
7 NIGHTS 
1456 UTILITIES. AVAILABLE NOW! 900 GOOD LUCK IN YOUR FACE 9-0 
HILTON HEAD ISL~.ND .. ·m lf19 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS
BLOCK OF E. LASALLE. 271-0373. "THE SECOND INTERVIEW: A Irish women vs. Penn State 

LOST: NIKON 6006 CAMERA PRESENTATION ON THE OFFICE and Stanlordlll 
MUSTANG ISLAND I "'"''128 
PORT ARANSAS
WITH 28-85 MM LENS . ALSO. VISIT" BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF SPRING BREAK '921 THE 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS
LOST A DARK GREEN FOR SALE CAREER AND PLACEMENT hey nil ULTIMATE VACATION including 
11th Annual

PATAGONIA JACKET WITH GRAY SERVICES TONIGHT 6:30 PM, airfare, hotel, all meals, beverages, 
Celebration!

LINING. BOTH LOST THE Pioneer speakers: , 4-way 200Watt. NOTRE DAME ROOM OF ADOPTION watersports, and morel This trip is 
TOLL FREE INFORMAT•ON & II...VATIONI
WEEKEND OF THE TENNESSEE nice. Jon 271-1562 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. Happy, loving couple wishes to not for everyone; but if you want GAME. REWARD. CALL KEVIN ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS raise your white newborn with THE BEST for only $799, Call 1­
1·800·3 21·5911 
JOHNSTON 1-800-727-0029. 1990 INFINITI M30 SPORTS INVITED. warmth and love. Can provide 800-331-3136. 
~~ 
COUPE. BURGUNDY W/GRAY financial security and education. LOST: YELLOW AND BLACK LEATHER. LOADED "THE SECOND INTERVIEW : A Medical/legal expenses paid. SWATCH SOMEWHERE W/EVERYTHING. 21,000 MILES. PRESENTATION ON THE OFFICE Please answer our prayers by Need a ride to Columbus, OH. this 
,--AC~ 
BETWEEN ACC AND PEACE $18,500 277-3784. VISIT" BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF calling Maureen & Jim. Call 1-800-weekend (11122). Can you help? MEMORIAL. IF FOUND PLEASE CAREER AND PLACEMENT 456-2656. Call Kaley, 283-4012. CALL 283-1340. SERVICES TONIGHT 6:30 PM, 
ANAST~;~UR I 
Round Trip Ticket to HAWAII NOTRE DAME ROOM OF "THE SECOND INTERVIEW: A See the Thanksgiving Game LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. PRESENTATION ON THE OFFICE THE METHA-TONES 
LEITER WORD

WANTED ··extremely Cheap•• ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS VISIT" BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CLUB 23 Thurs Nov 21 call Dan at 288-0933 INVITED. CAREER & PLACEMENT Bridgil's Sat Nov 23 
If you had started 
PART-TIME CLEAN-UP HELP SERVICES TONIGHT 6:30 PM, WE LOVE LOU ... REED. NEEDED AT BRIDGET'S $6/HR. SPRING BREAK '92· YOU'VE NOTRE DAME ROOM OF 
on clear Care Acne 
APPLY WED. THRU SAT. AT CHEAPI FBI/U.S. SEIZED ONLY GOT ONE WEEK TO LIVE_ LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. 
7:30 PM OR CALL 271·0373. 89 MERCED~S $200, SO DON'T BLOW ITII DO IT IN ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS 
Treatment 30 days 
NO MINORS. 86 VW$50 JAMAICNCANCUN STARTING AT INVITED. AITENTION: ANYONE WHO 87 MERCEDES $100, A LOW $4591 ORGANIZE GROUP WANTS TO HAVE AN INCREDIBLE 
ago, you would be 
Ride needed to east side ol 65 MUSTANG $50. AND TRAVEL FREE 1-800·426-HELPI I need a ride to ST. LOUIS THANKSGIVING IN HAWAII Cleveland on Wed. Eve. or Thur. Choose from thousands starting 77101 for the Tues or Wed of T. Break. I have 2 roundtrip tix to Honolulu 
clear of Acne today 
day of Thanksgiving Break. Call $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Call Mary x4698 that I need to sell. I will cut Usa at 239-5890. Reveals Details 801·379-2929 •••••rRtSH GARDENs••••• someone a major dealll I'm selling 
For free samples, 
Copyright LOOK OUT them lor about 60% off, but I'm 
information on how
#IN11KJC. •This weekend 22nd & 23rd KID willing to negotiate. Call me please HELPIIIII Irish Gardens will THEY KEEP IT ALL and make me an offerlll x3457 
Clear Care's topical 
I need a ride to For Sale: extend hours until 6:30PM. HID HARRISBURG_YORK AREA 
medications work, 
lor Thanksgiving Break. Nintendo with Tecmo Bowl, RBI2 Lots of dances so come in KEENAN 7 ZAHM 3 (If you're going to Ba~lmore and more. $50. Call x1471 & pre-orderll Andy Weigert CORE veterans, ONCE LOSERs­that's good,also.) section 34 1990-91: It's reunion ALWAYS LOSERS Please, Call Mike x1670 IRISH GARDENS OPEN 'TIL time. Dinner at Bruno's Wed. night. 
Call our Skin Care
TICKETS 6:30PM Meet at the Library Circle at 6:45 

EARN $ZOOO.

p.m. Riders and drivers...call 

Information Line 
+
NEED RIDE TO NY/NJ/LI AREAII selling a one way ticket from Monica or Raft for details or just to 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRI
Will share expenses and help drive. south bend to rochester on tue SPRING BREAKII Bahamas Party say YES you're going. (Even Andy 
(800) 435-3533 

Call Emily x4032 evening, nov.26. call x4362 or 284-Cruise $2791 Panama City $991 S. will be tllerel) 
North America's #1 Student Tour 5429. price Is negotiable. Padre $1991 Cancun $4691 Jamaica 
Operator seeking motivated 
REPOSSESSED & IRS 

FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS $3991 Kathleen 283-3958, Lisa 283· 
students, organizations, to students or student organizations 4667. YO...CORE RENEGADES from 
FORECLOSED HOMES 

fraternities 
promoting our Spring Break CHEAPI CHEAPI CHEAPI ANDY WEIGERT's #1 class last available at below market value.
and sororities as campusPackages. Good Pay & Fun. Call Selling plane tickets to Hawaii for SPRING BREAK '921 SUPER­year: Get ready for a reunion (this Fantastic savings! You repair.
representatives promoting Cancun 
CMI. 1-800-423·5264. Thanksgiving SPECIAL PRICES if you make means YOU IngridI). Dinner at Also S&L bailout properties. 
Bahamas, Daytona and Panama
Call x3457 reservations before Christmas! Bruno's Wed. night. Meet at the Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. H-6237City!

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas from Library Circle at 6:45p.m. Call Raft Driving to the Wheaton/ only $399 including roundtrip or Monica if you can drive, if you are 
SEIZEI.l CARS,

Naperville area or • airfare, great hotel, and much morel coming. (This means YOU Ingrid). 
t:ucks. boats. 4wheelers,surroundings for ThanksG.? PERSONAL _ THE BEST AVAILABLEI1-800-331-Be there ..... 

POSTAL JOBS AVAILABLE
I 

motorhomes, by FBI. IRS, DEA Happy birthday Joe Roberts. SPRING BREAK IN CANCUNI 
Call Chris, x1501 L----======-== 3136. 
'wailable your area nowMany positions. Great benefits.

To the #1 BP Blitz coaches, REPRESENTATIVES WANTED. 


'-:JI '805'~-ll?.-7555 E•t C-592t
Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. We need pictures lor the JPW slide maniacs: Thanks for the greatest LARGEST AND MOST AITENTION JUNIORSIll Monica Eigelberger is a ho. Luke, bushy eyebrows, and sex COLLEGE TOURS, THE NATION'S 
FREi"7e';aj";,.iih1 p;dl 

show. Please bring horizontal GETAWAY WEEKEND football season ever and for SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK pictures (no alcohol showing) to KOONTZ HOUSE believing in us and knowing all TOUR OPERATOR NEEDS 
TRAVEL .,"-''....,;;:.rental of equal value. I Student Activities or your dorm BED 'N BREAKFAST along that we could do it. Thanks ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS 
Air couriers and Culseshlps. 
_.._....,_Bring ad. limit 1-Hurrytl
Students also needed Christmas,President as soon as possible I 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE lor being great coaches as well as REPRESENTATIVES. EARN FREE 
E><p.res an 10 days-I Don't forget to put your name and DAME great friends. No season will ever TRIPS AND CASH I WE PROVIDE 
Spring and Summer for 
Warehouse 

Amusement Pari< enployment.
address on each picture so they can 586-7090 be the same I EVERYTHING YOU NEED. CALL 
.......... 2022 South Bend I

be returned. Love, the Biltz 1-800-395·4896 FOR MORE 
Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. F-3397 DEADLINE: Dec. 2nd stronger than burt INFORMATION. 
~.\.!l!l~qQ,d_~2~~_J 


WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) ­Purdue sophomore Travis Trice is on trial, and Ball State will help determine the verdict for the Boilermakers' point guard in the preseason National Invitation Tournament. 
MThe job is up for grabs," said coach Gene Keady, who sends the Boilermakers against Ball State at Mackey Arena on Thursday night. 
MTravis is going to get the first shot. I want him to be a little waterbug. I want him all over the place," Keady said. "I want him getting after folks, pressuring the ball, being there when someone throws a care­less outlet pass." 
Trice, a 6-foot-1, 182-pounder from Princeton, Ind., had more assists (70) than points (59) while making seven starts and playing in 27 games last season. 
"I want him to forget about scoring. I want him to get the ball to people,"·Keady said. "The thing that will happen when he forgets about scoring, he'll become a scorer. When he's not worried about it, he'll get in the flow .... Our offense is flexible and everybody can score if you do what you prac­tice." 
Keady will go with the same starting unit he used in two ex­hibition games -a 79-77 loss to the AAU High Five team and 76-54 victory over the Cuban National team. Matt Painter and Ian Stanback will be at forward, Craig Riley at center and Woody Austin and Trice in the backcourt. 

A victory over Ball State would send the Boilermakers against the winner of Thursday night's first-round game between No. 13 Oklahoma State or Evansville on Saturday. The winner of that game moves on to New York for next week's semifinals. 
"We're young. Defensively we may not be able to stop any­thing. It's going to be interest­ing," Keady said about prospects of advancing to Madison Square Garden. 
Austin, a former Indiana high school Mr. Basketball who missed the second half of last season because of academic ineligibility, and Riley are the team's only seniors. Painter is the only junior. 
''I'm not sure we're that tal­ented or experienced to get by Ball State, or someone like Oklahoma State or Evansville. This is the youngest team I've ever had here and you're not going to win a lot with young players. You've got to get some experience under your belt." 

QB Rick Ebert, sr. RB Thomas Sullivan, sr. RB Curtis Baker, jr. WR Renzy Smith, sr. WR James Scott, jr. TE Bill Dietz, jr. T Christian Settlemier, so. T Matt Cutler, sr. G Pat Soller, sr. G Gregg Larson, so. C Brent Phelan, sr. PK Sean Goldrick, jr. 
QB Mike Musty, sr. 
RB Scott Kamenick, jr. 
RB Paul Zachlin, so. 
WR Will Grannan, jr. 
WRAnthony Laboe, fr. 
TE Eric Willman, jr. 
T Ross Mihalko, fr. 
T Scott Ismail, fr. 
G Pete Lawrence, so. 
G Scott Curtis, so. 
C AI Kozar, jr. 
PK Nick Colacino, jr. 

TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
PLAYER RELATIONS COMMITTEE-Named Richard Ravltch president and chief executive officer. American League 
SEATTLE MARINER5-Sent Mike Blowers and Frank Bolick, Infielders, to Calgary of the Pacific Coast League. Purchased the contracts of Kerry Woodson, Jim Newlin and Jell Nelson, pitchers: Jim Campania and Greg Pirkl, catchers. from Calgary. 
TORONTO BLUE JAY5-Asslgned Ray Gianelli, third baseman, outright to Syracuse of the International League. Announced that Rene Gonzales, Infielder, has refused assignment to Syracuse of the International League and Is a tree agent. National League 
FLORIDA MARLINS-Named Orrin Freeman 

associate director of scouting. Named Greg 
Zunino, Dejon Watson, John Castleberry, Bill 
Scherrer and Jell Wren scouts. 
HOUSTON ASTR05-Named Tom Spencer 

third base coach. Asked waivers on Jim 
Corsi and Dwayne Henry, pitchers; Jose 
Tolentino, Infielder; and Javier Ortiz, 
outfielder; lor the purpose of giving them 
their unconditional releases. 
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Named John 

Shoemaker manager and Luis Tlant pitching 
coach of the Kissimmee Dodgers of the Gull 
Coast League. 
NEW YORK MET5-Added Julian Vasquez and 

Joe Vitko, pitchers; Brook Fordyce, catcher; 
Tlto Navarro, Infielder; and Patrick Howell, 
outfielder; to the 40-man roster. Sent 
Blaine Beatty, pitcher, and Chuck Carr, 
outfielder, outright to Tidewater of the 
International League. Named Rafael 
Landestoy, minor league Infield and base­
running Instructor; Tom Romenesko, scout; 
and Jim Duquette administrative assistant 
for the minor leagues. 
SAN DIEGO PADRES-Purchased the 

contract of Ray Holben, shortstop, from 
High Desert of tha CaiHornla League. 
Washington 4 7 .364 3 112 New Jersey 2 7 .222 4 112 
DE Tom Elmer, sr. Carroll 

Central Dlvlalon
DE Mike Murphy, jr. Sorin 

Chicago 7 2 .778
Fisher DT Brent Phelan, sr. Fisher Atlanta 5 4 .556 2 
Fisher DT Pete Lawrence, so. Pangborn Detroit 5 5 .500 2 112 Cleveland 4 4 .500 2 112
St. Edward's LB Thomas Sullivan, sr. Carroll 

Milwaukee 5 6 .455 3 Sorin LB AI Kozar, jr. Sorin Indiana 4 7 .364 4 Charlotte 2 9 .182 6
St. Edward's LB Joe Mattio, jr. Sorin CB John Olyksek, jr. 

WESTERN CONFERENCE St. Edward's CB Pete Grant, jr. Mldweat Dlvlalon W L Pet GB
S Pat Coleman, jr. 

San Antonio 6 .857 S Pat Nash, jr. Houston 7 2 .778 
P Rick Ebert, sr. Utah 5 5 .500 2 112 Denver 4 4 .500 2 112 Dallas 4 6 .400 3 112 Minnesota 7 .125 5 112 
Pacific Dlvlalon Golden State 7 2 .778 St. Edward's DE Mike Gebicki, sr. Sorin Seattle 6 3 .667 1 
Pangborn DE Tom Pitstick, jr. Fisher LA Lakers 5 3 .625 t 112 Portland 5 4 .556 2
Pangborn DT Mike Dougherty, sr. St. Edward's 

LA Clippers 5 5 .500 2 112 Sorin DT Ed Policy, jr. Sorin Phoenix 3 7 .300 4 112 Sacramento 3 7 .300 4 112
Carroll LB Dave Fritsch, sr. St. Edward's Pangborn LB Gene Richards, jr. Fisher Tueaday•a Game• Pangborn LB Gregg Larson, so. Fisher Late Games Not Included 
New Jersey 122, Sacramento 118
Carroll CB J.R. Duff, so. Sorin 

Seattle 113, Washington 106 Pangborn CB David Dukat, jr. Pangborn Mlaml111, Utah 91 Sorin S Jim Meiers, so. Pangborn Houston 90, New York 79 Milwaukee 127. Charlotte 104
Sorin S Sean Kelley, jr. Sorin 

Dallas 96, Denver 93 Pangborn P Thomas Sullivan, sr. Carroll LA Clippers at Portland, (n) 
Phoenix at LA Lakers, (n) 
NHL STANDINGS 
AL MVP VOTING 

WALES CONFERENCE 
BASKETBALL National Baaketball Aaaoclatlon 
LOS ANGELES LAKERS-Piaced Magic Johnson, guard, on the Injured list. Re· signed Demetrius Callp, guard. 
MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES-Signed Luc Longley, center, to a 4-year contract. 
WASHINGTON BULLETS-Signed Ralph Sampson. center. Waived Alben King, forward. Placed Tom Hammonds, forward, on the Injured list. Activated LaBradford Smith, guard, from the Injured list. Continental Baaketball Aaaoclatlon 
ALBANY PATROONS-Signed Royce Jellries, forward. Waived Kevin McDuffie, center. 
BAKERSFIELD JAMMERS-Waived Greg Butler, center. Signed Scott Meents, center. GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Signed James Sanders, guard. Waived Darryl Odom, guard. 
FOOTBALL 
National Football League 
CLEVELAND BROWNS-Waived Anthony 
Florence, cornerback, and Randy Kirk, 
linebacker. Signed Johnle Cooks, linebacker. 
Placed Danny Peebles, wide receiver, on 
Injured reserve. 
SAN FRANCISCO 49ER5-Waived Greg Cox, 
safety. 
Proleaalonal Spring Football League 
UTAH PIONEERS-Named Roy Henline 
general manager. 
HOCKEY Eaat Coaat Hockey League 
DAYTON BOMBER5-Piaced John Sullivan, center, on the 14-day Injured reserve list, retro-active to Nov. 13th. Added Brian Fleury, dafenseman, to roster. 

Patrick DlvlalonLeading vote-getters for the 1991 American 
w
League Most Valuable Player Award, with Washington 15first-, second-and third-place votes and NY Rangers 12total points on a 14·9·8-7-6·5-4-3-2·1 New Jersey t1basis: 
Pittsburgh 9 Philadelphia 8
Player 1 at 2nd 3rd Total 
NY Islanders 7CRipken, Bal 15 8 4 318 Fielder, Del 9 1 2 6 286 Adame DlvlalonThomas, Chi 4 5 181 Montreal 15Canseco, Oak 3 145 Hartford 9Carter, Tor 2 2 136 Boston 7Alomar, Tor 2 2 3 128 Buffalo 7Puckett, Min 2 78 Quebec 3Sierra, Tex 63 Griffey, Sea 62 
L 
4 8 9 8 9 
10 
6 7 7 9 
15 
T 
0 
0 3 1 
2 
2 
3 4 2 
Pta 
30 25 
22 
21 17 16 
32 21 18 16 
7 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Clemens, Bos 57 Norrie DlvlalonMolitor, Mil 51 

w L T Pta 
Tanabull, KC 32 Detroit t2 8 2 26Morris, Min 29 Chicago 10 8 5 25 Davis, Min 21 St. Louis 8 8 5 21 Franco, Tex 17 Minnesota 8 10 1 17 White, Tor 15 Toronto 5 14 3 13 

Erickson, Min 12 Aguilera, Min 11 

Smythe DlvlalonPalmelro, Tex 6 Vancouver 1 4 4 3 31 
Ventura, Chi 3 Winnipeg 9 8 4 22DHenderson, Oak 

Calgary 9 8 3 21 Los Angeles 8 7 5 21 NCAA BASKETBALL Edmonton 7 12 3 17 San Jose 3 17 7 
EXHIBITION 

Monday'• Gamea Athletes In Action 87. Notre Dame 76 
Montreal 1, Edmonton 0 
Baylor 69, Cuba 64 Pittsburgh 7, Quebec 3 Creighton 87, Athl. Fight Subst. Abuse 77 Drexel 89, Lehigh Valley AAU 66 
Tueaday'a Gamea Georgia 80, Tashkent, USSR 63 Late Games Not Included Grace College 104, St. Francis. Indiana 93 
Detroit 4, Chicago 1 Lafayette 90, Burundi, Africa 56 
N.Y. Islanders 7, Minnesota 4 Marathon Oil 72. Arizona St. 61 Los Angeles at San Jose, (n) Wls.-MIIwaukee 118, Vgnn Donar 78 
N.Y. 
Rangers at Vancouver, (n) Newberry 96, Kentucky Crusaders 87 

S. 
Carolina St. 78, Ukraine National 77 St. Thomas Aquinas 68, Telkyo Post 66 Soviet Union 92, Springfield 86 



3-7 Lost2 1-5 3·2 3-4 2-7 Won 1 1-4 1-3 1·6 
7-2  Won6  5-1  2·1  6-1  
5-4  Lost 1  3·1  2·3  3·2  
5-5  Lost 2  3-2  2-3  4·5  
4-4  Won 3  3-0  1·4  2·0  
4-6  Won 1  .3·2  2-4  4-5  
4-6  Won 1  3·2  1-5  2·2  
2-8  Lost 1  2-3  0-6  2·9  

L 10 Streak Home Away Coni 6-1 Won 4 5-0 t-1 4-1 7-2 Won 2 5·0 2·2 5·2 5-5 Lost 1 2·1 3·4 3·1 4-4 Lost 1 4-2 0-2 4-4 4·6 Won 3 2-3 2·3 4-3 1-7 Lost 4 0-5 1·2 1-7 
7-2 Wont 2·1 5-t 4·1 6-3 Won 3 2·2 4·1 3-2 5-3 Won4 3·1 2-2 4-3 5-4 Lost 1 4·1 1·3 2-4 5-5 Lost 3 4-1 1-4 3-5 3-7 Lost5 1·3 2·4 3-4 3· 7 Lost 2 3-3 0-4 1·5 
Wedneaday'a Game• 
Indiana at Boston, 7:30 p.m. 
Miami at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. 
Utah at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. 
Cleveland at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. 
Sacramento at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. 
Seattle at Detroit, 7:30 p.m. 
New York at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. 
Minnesota at San Antonio. 8:30 p.m. 
Denver at Phoenix. 9:30 p.m. 
Chicago at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
GF  GA  Home  
96  57  6·2·0  
70  65  8-4-1  
73  56  7-3-0  
79  80  3-4-3  
53  52  5-4-0  
71  80  4-4-1  

74 38 9·4·0 61 61 4-3·3 64 62 4-3-1 50 59 4-3-1 58 88 3-7-1 
GF GA Home 88 7t 8-4-0 81 73 8-4·2 65 75 6-2-2 
64 67 6·4·0 51 78 5·5 02 
81 51 9·2-2 61 65 5-5-1 80 67 3-3·1 72 79 3·3·3 66 82 3·2·2 52 104 3-5-1 
Wedneeday'a Gamea 
Away 9·2·0 4·4-0 4·6-0 6-4-0 3·5·1 3-6·1 
6·2·2 5-4·0 3-4-3 3·6·1 
0·8-0 
Away 4-4-2 2-4·3 2-6-3 2·6·1 0·9·1 
5-2-1 
4·3·3 
6-5-2 5·4·2 4·1 0-1 0-12-0 

i 
Dlv 9-0-0 5-4-0 3·5-0 3-6·1 
1·5·1 3·4·0 
6-2-2 3-3-2 2-1·1 3-4·1 1-5-0 
Dlv 5-4·1 2·4·4 3-5·2 5·2·1 4-4-2 
8-2-2 
3-3-2 3·4-t 3-4-3 3-4-2 2-5-0 
Boston at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Washington at New Jersey, 7:35 p.m. Philadelphia at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. Toronto at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. 
N.Y. Islanders at Winnipeg. 8:35 p.m. 
Thuraday'a Gamea Montreal at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. Vancouver at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 


Syracuse 96 Canadian National 75 

~ t;· Saint Mary's College Department of 
Texas Tech 85, Southern Melbourne 68 USA Verlch Reps 97, Ohio St. 86 ~~ Communication, Dance, Theatre Wls.-MIIwaukee 118, Vgnn Donar 78 
. .· );0\·,
announces 

&~~i AUDITIONS // \1 
~ ~r ~ ~
CARMELITES 

. STEPPING OUT 
ACTIVE AND 

, ~ .::~-. by Richard Harris ~ (![ft"'~·· '\~ directed by Les Baird 
CONTEMPLATIVE MEN 

CALLED TO BRING GOD'S f November 20th 7-10pm
LOVE INTO TilE WORLD 

\ November 21st 8-1 Opm Cannelites in our Province of the Most Pure Heart of Mary, 
Little Theatre, Moreau Center for the Arts
(
consisting of 285 priests and 30 Brothers, have always 

I
j( A winning play about the worst and
responded to the needs of the Church in varied ministries; 
throughout the United States as well as OnWio and 

-best of amateur theatre and dance 
Quebec, Canada and Rome. Our missionaries serve in Lima and Sicuani, Peru. · 

9 Female Roles/1 Male Role -CONTACT-


For information, scripts, and an audition 
Rev. Peter McGarry, 0. Carm., Vocation Director 

appointment please call· 284-4640 or
1313 Frontage Road 

stop by room 110 Moreau Hall.
Darien, Illinois 60559-5341 (708) 852-4536 

Wednesday, November 20, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Heat blaze to their best start as· Seikaly burns Jazz 
MIAMI (AP) -Rony Seikaly it's sixth win before the 23rd Nets 122, Kings 118 116 and wrap up the victory. Kenny Gattison scored a sea­had 23 points and 17 rebounds game. EAST RUTHERFORD N.J. (AP) Petrovic had 25 points for New son-high 21 points and Kendall to lead Miami to its fourth SuperSonics 113, Bullets 106 -Sam Bowil!' scored 27 points Jersey, while Sacramento's Gill added 19 for the Hornets, straight victory. 111-91 over LANDOVER, Md. (AP) -Gary and Chris Morris had a key Mitch Richmond had a game­0-6 on the road this season. Utah on Tuesday night. Payton scored 16 points in the basket and two clutch free high 32 points. 
The Heat moved to 6-2, the second half and Michael Cage throws in the final minute as Bucks 127, Hornets 104 The Bucks led 85-63 lead with first time the franchise has ever had 20 rebounds to help Seattle New Jersey snapped a seven­MILWAUKEE (AP) -Moses 6:18 remaining in the third be­been four games above .500, overcome Washington for its game losing streak with a 122-Malone had 23 points and Dale fore Ellis went to work. After and took their third straight win third straight victory. 118 victory over Sacramento. Ellis scored 11 straight in the Ellis's second 3-pointer, Larry over the Jazz in Miami. Trailing 68-61 in the third It was the 41st consecutive third quarter as Milwaukee Johnson made a shot for the 
Miami used runs of 14-4, 11-0 quarter, Payton had eight points road loss for the Kings, who are snapped a four-game losing Hornets. Ellis took a pass from and 11-2 in building a 90-64 in a 20-4 run which gave 0-5 away from home this streak by beating Charlotte Robertson and hit another 3­lead 17 seconds into the fourth Seattle a 9-point lead and season. 127-104 on Tuesday night. pointer for a 94-65 Milwaukee quarter. Utah never got closer helped send the Bullets to their The Nets trailed 102-99 in the Ellis, who finished with 22 lead with 4:06 left in the third. than 14 points for the game's second straight loss and fifth fourth quarter after Jim Les points, expanded an already Del Curry made a 22-foot final 28 minutes. consecutive defeat at the and Anthony Bonner combined wide lead with three straight 3-jumper, but Ellis tipped in his 
Bimbo Coles had a career-high Capital Centre. for 15 points. Drazen Petrovic pointers and a basket from an 11th straight point and the 20 for the lleat. as did rookie Cage, who finished with 20 hit his fifth 3-pointer to tie it offensive rebound midway Bucks had a 96-6 7 cushion with Steve Smith. points, had six during the deci­and the teams traded baskets through the third quarter. 3:33 to go. 
Utah was led by Karl Malone sive spurt. until Morris took a pass from Milwaukee outscored Charlotte The Bucks biggest lead of the with 25 points and Jeff Malone Washington, which made just Bowie and scored to make it 41-20 in the period and also got game came at the end of the with 16. 5-of-21 shots in the third quar­116-114. eight points apiece from third when Krystkowiak made 
In their three previous sea­ter, went over six minutes of the Morris had two free throws Malone, Larry Krystkowiak, and two free throws to go up 106­sons, Miami had never posted period without a field goal. with 5.7 to play to make it 120-Alvin Robertson. 71. 
Federov sticks Blackhawks 
Islanders 7, North Stars 4 Derek King also scored for the 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. (AP)­Islanders, and Ulf Dahlen Wayne McBean broke a 4-4 tie started Minnesota's comeback with a shorthanded goal with with a power-play goal at 7:31 
6:14 left in the third period of the second period. Tuesday night as the New York The Islanders were outshot Islanders rebounded after 43-25, including 27-11 over the blowing a three-goal lead for a first two periods, yet managed 7-4 victory over the Minnesota to hold a 3-1 lead. North Stars. The North Stars lost their 
McBean took a pass from second straight and dropped to Btmoit Hogue and was pulled two games below .500 (8-10-1), 
y

down from behind by Dave their worst mark of the season. Gagner. but managed to flip the The win gave the Islanders puck over Minnesota goalie Jon their first three-game winning Casey while sliding on his streak of the season. stomaeh. 
Todd Elik had completed Red Wings 4 Blackhawks 1 Minnesota's rally with a goal Detroit (AP)-Sergei Fedorov 
8:40 into the third that gave the had a goal and three assists, Stars a 4-3 edge. But Hogue leading the surging Detroit Red tied the score with a power-play Wings to a 4-1 victory over the goal at 10:55, then set up Chicago Blackhawks on McBean's winner. Tuesday night. The Detroit Red Wings handily beat the Chicago Blackhawks last night 4-1, in Joe Louis Arena . Center 
Pierre Turgeon scored on a The win moved Detroit past Sergei Federov had a goal and three assists to lead the victorious Wings. breakaway 1:23 after McBean's Chicago into first place in the goal. and Ray Ferraro added Norris Division. The Red Wings 
'Easy' Pickens opts for NFL after season
his second goal of the game are unbeaten (6-0-1) in seven with 1 :45 remaining. games for the first time since Mike Modano scored a pair of November, 1988. KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) -
Pickens' defensive skills were 
goals in a 2:56 span early in the Winning goaltender Tim Tennessee wide receiver Carl enough to earn him defensive third period to tie the game. Cheveldae stopped 30 shots. Pickens has decided to forgo his MVP honors in the Vols' 1990 senior season and apply for the Cotton Bowl victory over
Orgen's accomplishments are 

NFL draft, Volunteer coach Arkansas, in which he inter­
increasingly impressive consid­

Johnny Majors confirmed on cepted a pass in the end zone to
Awards 
ering he had to deal with a 

Tuesday. thwart a Razorback drive. 
number of injuries which side­

continued from page 16 In a statement released But Pickens made it plain that
lined his top players for ex­

through sports information di­he preferred offense, and he week. Sullivan returned two tended amounts of time. 
rection Haywood Harris, played there exclusively last interceptions for touchdowns Sullivan joined Ebert, and a Majors said Pickens told him of season as a sophomore. He led 
and led the team in tackles. trio of Fisher offensive weapons 
his decision to turn pro before the Vols with 53 receptions last "I saw him against Pangborn as the only unanimous first practice Tuesday afternoon. year for 917 yards and set a
Carl Pickens 
and he was pretty incredible," team selections. Wide receiver "Coach Majors told him before school single-game record withRenzy Smith and running hack
said Ebert. the season that if he decided to Majors said he told Pickens "I 13 catches against Notre Dame. In his second year as coach Curtis Baker were the other turn pro to inform him," Harris wanted him to finish strong as
Orgen took Notre Dame's two Green Wave players who 
said. a Volunteer these last three This season he has caught 43 smallest dorm and led them to earned unanimous selections. 
In the statement Majors said games." passes for 828 yards and five an undefeated season. He also Second to Fisher's ten play­he "understands Carl doing it, It was widely expected that touchdowns despite being dou­led the Vermin to the semifinals ers, was Carroll with four first 
and hopes everybody else un­Pickens would leave Tennessee ble-teamed on most plays. 
of the playoffs. team members, followed by derstands it also. after this year for the NFL. The Pickens is the leading receiver "I had nothing to do with it Sorin with four. Sophomores 6-foot-3, 200-pound receiver in the Southeastern Conference 
Gregg Larson and Pete

(the teams success)," said "We wish him success in pro­said as much at the end of last and seventh in the nation with 
Orgen. "I was just their to help. Lawrence were the only under­fessional football, and appreci­92 yards per game. He's fifth in 
season.

Coaching had nothing to do classmen to be named to the ate what he's done for the pro­the conference in receptions
with it." first team. 
gram the last four years," Pickens played sparingly on per game. 
Majors' statement said. "It did offense as a freshman at Always a big-play threat, not surprise me that Carl de­Tennessee but displayed his three of his touchdown catches cided to do this. We'd like to athletic ability by playing safety this year covered 87, 75 and 60 
I •I• American Red Cross have him return, but since he on defense for the final five yards. The 8 7 -yarder against chooses not to, we understand games, during which he inter­Auburn is the longest in school his thinking." cepted five passes. history. 

~'Nii~K'.-..'~~~'NIIK;~~'~ND:ii~;~~~~li(Me<;;>:IID(o~3C(;~<X:e<'~':,:~;>a~&,>ai&~NIDC:i'>~'>:ID.:i'>:ID10'al&c>~~~'>.a~K<ill~.;;~<i.-:-;;~~'~-~;,.. 
-

I CHIMES I
! St. Mary's Literary Journal is Accepting) 
-

~ Submissions. 
i J Poetry, Art, Stories, etc ... can be dropped off in i a Madeleva 303. db sAB I.·
~ sponsore y 
Lec:.>.aD<.~->.aD<,~•lGIIIC'~'~'~'~~·~'NCC:"'~~~~'~o;.-,,~~~,x-.ND:S"~'>.QII!O~HII<*~··~*'--C~~---~,~~~~-1 
page 14 
Observer Staff Report 
"It's time for the diaper dandies, baby!" 
College athletic recruiting is in full swing in all sports, and the Notre Dame women's tennis team has already received let­ters of intent from a core of of 'prime-time' players. 
Sherri Vitale, daughter of television color commentator Dick Vitale and sister of current Irish sophomore tennis player Terri Vitale, tops the group. Also destined for the Irish squad next year will be Holyn Lord and Wendy Crabtree. 
-Vitale, the Bradenton, Fla. native, was 31st in the 1990 girls rankings. She won the Florida high school singles title last spring and took the double title as a sophomore in '90 for St. Thomas High School. In 1989, she reached the semifi­
-
nals of the national indoor amateur championships. A native of Carmel, Ind., Holyn Lord is currently ranked 33rd in the 1990 girls 16 poll and fourth in the Western Section of the United States. She was the Indiana state champion as a freshman and sophomore wbile enrolled at Carmel High School. 
The Observer 


BALTIMORE (AP} -Cal Ripken won his second American League MVP award on Tuesday, becoming the first player in the league to capture the trophy as a member of a losing team. 
The Orioles shortstop hit .323 with 34 homers and 114 RBis as Baltimore went 67-95 and. rmished sixth in the seven-team AL East. He received 15 first­place votes, eight seconds, four thirds and one seventh for 318 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
Cecil Fielder of the Detroit Tigers, who led the majors with 133 RBis and tied for the ma­jor-league lead in homers with 44 homers, was second with 286 points. Fielder, the runner­up last year to Oakland's Rickey Henderson, got nine first-place votes, 12 seconds, six thirds and one seventh. 
Frank Thomas of the Chicago White Sox was third with 181 points, Jose Canseco of the Athletics was fourth with 145 points and Joe Carter of the Toronto Blue Jays was ftfth with 136 points. 
Ripken was AL Rookie of the Year in 1982 and MVP in 1983, when the Orioles won the World Series. This time, he did it with a team that was out of con­tention by early May. 
He becomes only the third player in baseball history to capture the award as part of a losing team. Ernie Banks did it in 1958 and 1959 with the Chicago Cubs and Andre Dawson, also of the Cubs, won it in 1987. 
Ripken established career highs in average, home runs and RBis and was the All-Star MVP after hitting a game-win­ning homer. One day earlier, he won the All-Star home run con­test. 
His 1991 postseason awards include player of the year honors from The Associated Press and The Sporting News. 
Ripken's consecutive games streak is up to 1,572-second­best in baseball history behind Lou Gehrig's 2,130-but this year he proved he is more than merely an iron man. 
Ripken's 34 homers made him the eighth player in major league history to hit at least 20 homers in each of his first 10 full seasons. Banks is the only other shortstop to hit .300 with 30 homers and 100 RBis. 
Of all his accomplishments this season, Ripken is most proud of his batting average, which was 49 points higher than his career mark. He didn't dip below .318 after the third-day of the season. 
"This year I got back to the level of efficiency that I am used to," he said last month. "The best thing about this year was being about to go out and be consistent on a daily basis. My batting average reflects that. 
''I'm very happy with the way I played this season. I'm not the kind of player who's going to hit 10 homers in 12 games, but then I wasn't going to go 0-for­50 either. I don't think I went through a slump all year." 
Ripken earned a $100,000 bonus on top of his $2.2 million salary. Carter got a $50,000 bonus added to his $3 million salary for finishing fifth. 

Another Vitale coming to Notre Dame 

Terri VItale 
The following year, Lord rolled to a perfect 54-0 record. She did not play prep tennis as a junior afte·r transferring to Brebuef High School in Indianapolis. In 1988 she won the national 14's doubles tour­nament. 
Wendy Crabtree, from Concord, Mass., is currently ranked 42nd in the 1990 Girls 16 poll. An outstanding all­around athlete at Concord­Carlisle High School, she led her prep soccer team to the state title as the leading scorer last season. 
As a freshman, Crabtree won the state's high school doubles title and led her school to a team championship as a sophomore. She is ranked third in the N~w England Tennis Association poll for her age group. 
Women's Basketball Coach Muffet McGraw is also busy re­cruiting high school talent. McGraw recently signed Stacy Fields, a three year starter from Mounds View High School in Indianapolis who earned North Suburban all-conference honors each year. 
Fields, a third-team Street & Smith's prep selection, alter­nated between guard and for­ward as a junior, averaging 
17.1 points and 7. 9 rebounds. The left-handed Fields had 89 assists, 32 steals and 21 blocks last season, leading the Mustangs to a 16-8 record last year. 
Fields earned all-Metro honors from the Minneapolis Star-Tribune, and also earned all-Metro honors for the fourth straight year as the Mustangs' soccer goalie. 
"Stacy will fit in very well with our program," says McGraw. "She's a great person and player. She'll compliment Michelle (Marciniak} and Audrey ~Gomez) and we expect her to step in and make imme­diate contributions. We're elated to have her join our team." 

Irish 
continued from page 16 
-
Peters led AlA with 18 points, Tolbert added 13 points and five rebounds, and Sherman Williams added nine points and nine boards from his small forward spot. 
"Jay really stepped up his play tonight," said Lower. 
But the spark for Athletes in Action's comeback was ex­California star Keith Smith. The All·Pac 10 point guard scored seven points during a 14-2 run. 
Then, Romar drained two long-range jumpers and Smith added five more points to bury the Irish in a 22-point deficit. 
Athletes 
continued from page 16 
MacLeod. "Defensively I'm not satisfied. We had a lot of turnovers and those mistakes hurt us." 
Sweet thinks the Irish will be able to learn from their mis­takes. 
Wednesday, November 20, 1991 
At the same time, the Irish motion game bogged down in a sea of indecisiveness. In their effort to be unselfish, they were passing up wide-open chances. 
"We had good opportunities that we didn't take," added MacLeod. 
Notre Dame tried to follow MacLeod's advice late in the game, cutting the Athletes in Action lead down to seven with 
4:44 remaining, but then Smith hit two free throws, and pulled up and hit an 18-footer to start a 9-2 spurt that built the lead back to 14 with 1:22 left. 
"We made a rush, but they were able to hold us off," said MacLeod. 
I 
"We're going to be a really good team," said Sweet, who never got on-track after early foul trouble. "We know exactly where we made our mistakes, so we know what we have to do to improve." 
A balanced scoring attack by Jay Peters (18 points}, Keith Smith (17} and Lorenzo Romar (16} improved AlA's record to 8-6. 

SPOR1S BRIEFS 
•Sports briefs are accepted every day except Saturday until 
5:00 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please include your name and phone number in case there are any questions concerning yoilr brief. 
•Sugar 
Bowl tickets will be on sale Thursday, November 21 through December 4. Tickets will be $40 apiece and each student may present 4 IDs. All tickets will be issued at Notre Dame upon payment. 

•ND/SMC 
field hockey will not have practice this week. 

•The 
Notre Dame Ski Club still has 3 spots open for our Christmas Trip to Crested Butle, CO. Call now to reserve your spot for the best extreme skiing out west. Questions, call Woodsy at 277-7089. 


T H E W I N E R Y 0 F E. & J. G A L L 0 

Uncork Your Potential 
For graduates with an intense desire to go far, there is a career with far-reaching opportunities. Sales management with the E. & J. Gallo Winery. 
On-campus interviews: 
CORPORATE INFORMATIONAL SESSION MORRIS INN ALUMNI ROOM NOVEMBER 20, 1991 7:00P.M. 
~-----------------­
Wednesday, November 20, 1991 The Observer 
page 15 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 

His wish for life granted, the Visible Man takes his first steps Into the real world -not suspecting that most people, upon seeing him, would either faint or throw up. 
CROSSWORD CAMPUS 

©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8721 
ACROSS  
1 Suffix for land  or  26 Raison d'­ 42 Skin mark  
sea 6 Those who defy12 Ghost, or James Bond opponent14 Raise one's spirits16 --seek  27 Me1 of baseba11 28 Declined 29 Famous Colonel 32 With 43-Down,former Dodger 34 Laborers  44 -poetica45 Masses of blood 47 Stockings48 Siamese (var.)49 Defend 51 Never: Ger.  
17 Consoled lB Coach Parseghlan19 Inheritor 21 Son of Bela •22-farmer 24 Turn the key25 Pen point  35 Prefix: seven 36 Treated with malice 38 Make a certain poker bet 40 Covers 41 Jazz of the '50s  52 English prepschool student 54 Bridge supports56 Adjusted a watch 57 Time of day58 Talks back to 59 Intended  

7:00 p.m., 9:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. Film, "The Princess Bride." Montgomery Theater. Sponsored by the Medieval Club.
DOWN 
1 Strong drink 2 Midwest city 

LECTURES
(3 wds.)3 Tennis term 

4:15 p.m. Lecture, "New Social Actors in Peru: Continuity
4 Egyptian god

5 Sea eagles and Change," Luis Pasara, CLADE, Buenos Aires, Argentina. 6 Commit a military Room C103 Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute 
crime 

for International Studies. 
7 "It's -cause" 8 Electrical units 

9 ----Marie Saint 4:30 p.m. Nieuwland Sesquicentenn\al Mathematics Lecture, lD Midwest c1 ty "The Mechanics and Geometry of Falling Cats and Satellite 
(2 wds.) 

Parking," professor Jerrold Marsden, University of California, 
11 Germ-free 

Berkeley. Room 226, Computer/Math Building. Sponsored by
12 Nuance 

College of Science. 
13 Film workers 15 Fit for food 20 "Darn it!" 7:30 p.m. Theologians respond to a series of hearings with
23 Doctrines 

students. "What is a priest? Why do you go to Mass? Are
28 Object of devotion 

there distinct roles for men and women in the Roman Catholic 30 John -Church?" John Donahue, Theresa Koenke, and Mary Aquin 
31-run 

O'Neill. Lounge, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by The
32 Part of MPH 

Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of
33 U.S. agency35 Musical groups Women. 36 Roof worker 37 "The-of 
Penzance" MENU 38 Give support39 Least difficult 

Notre Dame 
41 Robert Redford and 

Jack Nicklaus, e.g. Roast Chicken with Gravy 43 See 32-Across Sweet & Sour Pork 
45 Author of "The Red 

Noodles Romanoff 
Badge of Courage" 46 Rugby play49 Papa1 name 50 Work with a 

piano Saint Mary's 53 Spanish for us "Thanksgiving Buffet" 
55 Spanish equivalent 

Carved Turkey Toms 
of Mrs. 

Salmon Steaks Cheese Stuffed Shells 

Friday and Saturday November 22 & 23 
7:30 pm and 10:30 pm 
MATERIAL ISSUE In Concert at Theodores Shown in Cushing

December 10 at 8:30 pm Auditorium-$2
Tix $5 for ND/SMC students 
On sale Dec. 3 Lafortune Information Desk Special Guest: GUTTERBOY 
Sports 

page 16 Wednesday, November 20, 1991 
A.I.A. Qutrun, gun Irish 87-76 

By DAVE MCMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
Team speed and a 39-14 foul shot advantage combined to shut down an early Notre Dame lead as Athletes in Action rolled past the Irish men's basketball team last night at the Joyce ACC, 87-76. 
Forward LaPhonso Ellis led the Irish in their second and fi­nal exhibition game with 19 points and 10 rebounds. Freshman Billy Taylor followed with 15 points on 7 -of-9 shoot­ing. 
After Notre Dame took a 20­12 lead on six points from Taylor and four from Joe Ross, AlA finished the half with a 30­13 run for a 42-33 halftime advantage. 
"They spread us out in the first half," said Notre Dame coach John MacLeod. "We were making nice moves, but we had a flurry of turnovers. Then we began to shoot poorly." 
In the second half, AlA picked up where it left off, building on an 18:00 stretch in which the Irish were outscored 50-20. 
"It was the best job we've done all year with being pa­tient," said AlA coach Dave Lower. "We ran our screens well and had good cuts." 
In an attempt to thwart AlA's speed, MacLeod played all 13 scholarship players, but couldn't find a suitable combi­nation. The Irish shot .500 (32­

64) but could not rmd the bot­tom of the net at crucial times. 
After center Keith Tower drew two quick fouls in the first half, MacLeod replaced him with Joe and Jon Ross throughout the remainder of the game. In 13 minutes of ac­tion, Tower tallied four points and two fouls. Joe Ross added six points (3-of-4) in 18 minutes of play. 
"Quickness was a factor in limiting Tower's time," said MacLeod. "It was a tough cover for him tonight." 
Freshman Malik Russell had six points and seven rebounds in 19 minutes of play. Russell and Taylor, both freshman, played much of the second half alongside Elmer Bennett (3-for­10 from the field), Daimon Sweet at small forward. 
"We used some different line­ups to get a little quickness," said MacLeod. "We missed some wide open jumps shots and had some good opportuni­ties to shoot that we didn't take advantage of." 
Notre Dame, 1-1 in exhibition games, failed to convert on many rebound goals, as the Irish out-rebounded AlA 41-29. Ellis (8-of-14 from the field) made sure he didn't miss on one occasion. 
Taking the ball from shin­level in his right hand, Ellis cut AlA's lead to 35-30 on a mam­moth windmill dunk. 
Foul shots, or lack thereof. plagued the Irish, as they hit only 7-of-14 for the game. AlA took advantage of the bonus si­tuation, as Notre Dame recorded its seventh team foul at 9:24 remaining in the first half and 7:56 left in the second. 
Offensively, 19 Irish turnovers allowed AlA to implement its speedy transition game. 
Despite a poor team perfor­mance, MacLeod said the Irish are not discouraged. Taylor agreed with MacLeod's assess­ment. 
"We have to get a better feel for each other," said Taylor. "We'll keep working at it and soon the open shots will start falling. We're not worried about that." 
The Irish open their regular season next Tuesday, hosting Butler at the Joyce ACC. 
"We need to settle down, catch a stride and develop a rhythm," said MacLeod. "That's not an easy solution." 
Although the seniors played three years of zone defense un­der Digger Phelps, MacLeod's man-to-man style has been wel­comed by the team. Against AlA, the Irish showed that an unfamiliar style can lead to de­fensive problems. 
"We softened up on defense when we got tired," said 
see ATHLETES I page 14 

LaPhonso Ellis thunders home a dunk, but it -:~~~~rv:~~~g~ai~~ Irl"sh can't comeback from run 
overcome the Athletes In Action,as the Irish lost 87-76. 
By RENE FERRAN With 14:03 remaining in the MacLeod. "We had good shots;Carroll dominates awards Associate Sports Editor game, Ray Tolbert hit a running we just weren't able to make hook shot in the lane, capping a them." How Athletes in Action came 16-3 streak that expanded Athletes in Action were with­
GEORGE DOHRMANN Rockne team, Sullivan earned 
away with an 87-76 victory Athletes in Action's nine-point out the services of 6-9 forward
Sports Writer player of the year honors for over Notre Dame last night can halftime lead to 22, 62-40. David Wood, who dropped offthe second consecutive year for be described by two plays. In that 18-minute stretch, AlA the squad after Monday night. 
As the smoke from the scan­his outstanding play at With 12:09 left in the first outscored the Irish 50-20, hit And early on, his absencedalous interhall football cham­linebacker and fullback. 
half, Joe Ross took a nice feed 72 percent of its shots (18-25), showed. The visitors had trou­pionships finally begins to clear, Sullivan edged out Fisher QB from Elmer Bennett and scored compared to NO's 39 percent ble scoring inside, missing sev­
the Rockne League coaches Rick Ebert by three votes. 
on an easy layup. (9-23), went to the foul line 15 eral lay-ins, while Ross, Billyissued their all-star picks. Despite the close margin Ebert Ross' basket capped a three­times-converting 10-to only Taylor and LaPhonso EllisAnd after Carroll Hall suf­felt that the honor went to the and-a-half minute span in one-of-five from the line for the combined for 17 of Notrefered the shame of being dis­right player. 
which the Irish ran off 10 Irish, and forced nine turnovers Dame's first 20 points of thequalified, several eligible repre­"He is a good competitor and straight points to grab a 20-12 while committing only three game.
sentatives were honored with he plays tough," said Ebert. "He 
lead, forcing AlA to call a time­itself. Without Wood, forwards Jaythe league's most prestigious knows the game real well. 
out. Notre Dame's motion of­Quite a turnaround. Peters and Ray Tolbert were
awards; Tom Sullivan was Among the many sterling 
fense was resulting in easy "We weren't as quick inside expected to take up the slacknamed league MVP and Marty performances Sullivan put forth baskets, and the Irish pressure as they were, and they spread for Athletes in Action. BothOrgen was voted coach of the this year, none shines brighter forced AlA to miss eight con­us out and drove the ball on came through.
year. than his performance against 
secutive shots. us," said Irish coach John
While Fisher led the way Pangborn in the season's third see IRISH I page 14 with 10 players on the All-see AWARDS I page 13 
Knott's Kmak named MVP 
By ELAINE J.C. DEBASSIGE Pasquerilla West, and Kristen Sports Writer Sadie of Lewis, who tied for runner-up. Knott placed six The Blue Division All-Stars other players on the first team and awards for women's all-star lists. • interhall football were named, Huie, a junior from Flanner, as voted by the coaches, for the led Knott to a 2-3 record for the 
QB Ruth Kmak, sr. Knott DL Megan Heyward, so. Lewis 1991 season. season, and captured the coach DL Ann-Marie Conrado, jr. Knott Senior quarterback Ruth of the year honors. 
RB Lisa Miller, jr. Knott 

DL Jennifer Mee, jr. P.W. Kmak was named Player of the "He did a really good job with 
RB Kristen Sadie, sr. Lewis 

Year for the Blue Division. a small team," commented P.W
LB Paula Black, jr. 
WR Suzanne Juster, jr. Siegfried 

Mike Huie was voted as coach coach Chip Malin. "He had
LB Ruth Kmak, sr.
TE Sue Schweizer, jr. Knott 

of the year. Kmak and Huie players play both defense and
LB Carrie Coit, sr.
OL Danielle Busak, fr. Lewis 

both hail from the Knott inter­offense and I think he handled
CB Kristen Gafvert, sr.

OL Gail Carey, so. P.W. that well."
hall football team. As in the
S Kathy Allred, sr.

C Dana Dillon, jr. Knott men's Rockne division, one "This is my third year playing
P Kathy Allred, sr.

PK Julie Fleck, so. dorm captured both awards. football and we have had many 
"I was very surprised," said different coaches," explained Kmak. "It was a fun year for Dillon. "I was really impressed Knott football." (with Huie) because he showed 
Kmak, a senior from Tinley a commitment in playing and Park, Illinois, was also named having fun. Ruth (Kmak) got
QB Kristen Kirwan, jr. Lewis DL Liz Anroman, sr. Farley 

to the Blue All-Star team as a injured and Mike took time to
RB Michelle Bresnahan, jr. Farley DL Cristen Roman, sr. P.E. 

linebacker. see that she was taken to the
RB Ronnie Alvarez, jr. P.W. DL Amy Listerman, jr. Siegfried 

"She (Ruth) is very much a hospital."
WR Kristen Lefere, so. P.W. LB Jill Beth Hayes, sr. Lewis 

team player," said Dana Dillon, The league runner-up Lewis, TE Julie Fleck, so. Lewis LB Ann Marie Belknar, fr. P.E. a teammate of Kmak's. "She is as well as Pasquerilla West, OL Sylvia Castro, so. Farley LB Terrie Cotter, sr. P.W. a talented individual. She placed four players on the all­OL Pris Peraha, jr. Siegfried CB Beth Kueter, fr. Siegfried brings out the best in others star roster. Both Farley and C Sara Radkiewicz, fr. Lewis S Kelly McDonough, so. Lewis and she is a great leader." Siegfried had one PK Tracy Giovanoni, jr. P.E. P Amy Marasia, fr. Kmak walked away with the representative on the first 
honor over Bethany Riddle from. team. 








