
eObserver 


VOL. XXIV NO. 48 THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 7, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Feminism, pro-life view can agree 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
News Writer 
A fmninist position, a pro-life vision and Catholic traditions arn not mutually exclusive, ac­wnling to llelnn Alvarn. 
A spokospnrson for tlw Na­tional Confnrtmco of Catholic Bishops on tlw issue of abor­tion, ;\Ivan~ has bmm active in dPiiwring a pro-life mnssage across Anwrica. In last night's lt!cturn in tlw I lnsburgh Library Auditorium, Alvare supported a 
• f!ousn stops ban on counseling I page 5 
pro-lifn position rootnd in fem­inism and Christian beliefs. 
Alvaro professnd a strand of fnrninism known as "Celnbrational Feminism," which rncognizes the difl'er­Pncos botwnnn men and women and celebrates them. she said. In contrast, radical feminism tries to t!quatn the sexes, and turns to the "short term quick­fix" solution of abortion, as Al­varo dnscribed it. 
Slw added that radical femi­nists claim to protect the vul­nerable and marginalized members of society, yet they support the killing of vulnera­ble human beings through 
see ABORTION/ page 6 


The Observer/David Hungeling 



Fall frolic 

Sophomore Will Sutton plays in the leaves outside his home of Pangborn Hall, realizing that it won't be long before snow covers these last signs of summer. 
Election results show Americans are worried about the economy, Bush says 
WASIJINGTON (API -Presi­dnnt Bush said today that Ttwsday's nleetions made clear that Americans are worried about tlw ceonomy and the cost or hnalth earn. "Nobody is tak­ing anything for granted," Bush said of his own rc-nlection hopns. 
Bush said he was "depressed" his former attorney general, I>iek Thornburgh, lost l'cmnsylvania's Senate race to Demoerat I larris Wofford, who was appointed to the seat after thr death or Hepublican Sen. .John I lc!inz. 
But Bush tried to put the best faen on the elections, citing re­sults in New Jersey, Virginia and Mississippi as big Hepubli­can victories. 
"It was a political day yester­day and we did very, very well," Bush said. "Please don't look at the part or the glass that is only half full.' 
Speaking as he departed for a trip to the NATO meeting in Home, the president said he heard the voters' messages about health care and economic troublns, and promised, "We'll go the nxtra mile and we'll try nvtm harder." 
I le also sought to rid himself of a political thorn in the side­Louisiana's gubernatorial candidate David Duke, the Ku Klux Klan leader running as a Hepublican. Bush dismissed Duke as an "insincere charlatan ... attempting to hoodwink the 



Dick Thornburg 
voters of Louisiana." 
Asked later who he'd vote for if he lived in Louisiana, Bush said he'd "end up voting for (Edwin) Edwards," the Demo­cratic former three-term gov­ernor who Duke is facing in the Nov. 16 runoff 
For Bush, Thornburgh's loss was a tough, personal blow. 
lie had campaigned in Penn­sylvania twice for Thornburgh, as did Vice President Dan Quayle. 
"There's a message here for the administration and a mes­sage here for the United States Congress. When the economy is slow, people are concerned. They're hurting out there. They're concerned about their livelihood," Bush said. 
Bush said there was another lesson to be learned from New Jersey, where voters angered by tax hikes ended Democratic control of their legislature and elected large Republican ma­jorities. "One of the messages was don't raise taxes," Bush said. 

Bush promised an adminis­tration health care proposal, "something that's constructive." 
But he also said, "I must try to protect the taxpayers in this country who don't need another tax increase." 
He said he will continue to push his proposals, including a cut in the capital gains tax, and "I want to try to find ways to help because people are hurt­ing," he said. 
Bush disputed speculation that he cancelled a 1 0-day Asia and Australia trip later this month because of mounting criticism that he is neglecting the home front while concen­trating on foreign affairs. 
"That's crazy," he said. Bush said he put off the trip to be home as Congress winds up its session. 
"The only thing that worries me is being out of town when these people are doing crazy things," Bush said. 
He said he had seen various "head on heads," polls showing him running ahead of any of the current Democratic challengers "and l feel pretty good about it... 
Nonetheless, he said, 'I'm go­ing to be facing a tough fight. ... Nobody is going to be taking anything for granted." 
ND professors debate recognition of gay groups 
By KATHY MASSA 
News Writer 
In light of their unique reli­gious mission, Catholic univer­sities must address the issue of recognition of homosexual or­ganizations or risk charges of inconsistency. 
Notre Dame professors Halph Mcinerny and Lawrence Bradley debated this issue dur­ing a forum Wednesday night. 
Bradley asserted that "non­recognition of homosexual or­ganizations is inconsistent with the mission of a Catholic uni­versity." 
Mcinerny stated that it is in­consistent for a Catholic uni­versity to recognize a "program in which homosexual persons associate with each other," without clearly stating that "homosexual activity is im­moral." 
At the outset of the debate, Bradley defined his notion of the mission of a Catholic Uni­versity: "It entails the inculca­tion of basic Christian values and practices with the hope that its graduates will be ex­emplary Christians in a plural­istic society that values the in­trinsic dignity and freedom of the individual," he said. 
Bradley outlined the benefits of public, university -recog­nized, homosexual organiza­tions. Such organizations would "reach lesbian, gay and bisexual students with self-af­firming messages" and link them to a support group, he said. 
Publications by these organi­zations would educate others about "heterosexist attitudes and homophobia." Discussion about gay/lesbian issues would be "kept visible," he said. 
Finally, formally recognized organizations would "announce specific events and meetings, providing an open forum for students to discuss the issues they confront in coming to terms with their sexuality." 
Such organizations do not contradict Catholic teaching in practice or in idea, Bradley said. Homosexual organiza­tions in no way "indicate advo­cacy of homosexual conduct prohibited by Christian or Catholic moral principles," he said. "There has been no such advocacy and there is no indi­cation that there will be any such advocacy in the future." 
Mcinerny spoke on Catholic teaching regarding homosexual activity and the Church's re­sponsibility to the pastoral care of homosexual persons. He stated that he does not intend to defend the actions of any Catholic university's actions re­garding instances of recogni­tion or non-recognition. 
Mcinerny quoted. documents from Vatican II to support his presentation. Affirming the Church's obedience to the Lord, "who founded her and have to her the sacramental life," Mcinerny said that "it is only in 
see FORUM/page 6 


ND Glee Club will release first video 
By AMY SANTANGELO 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will soon release its first video in its 76-year history. 
The half-hour tape of traditional Christmas carols will be sold in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The video, produced by Golden Dome Productions, contains the music of the Glee Club's Christmas concert last year in Sacred Heart Church. 
The Glee Club's new leader, Mark Ring, speaks highly of this production as well as the 68 singers. Most of the men in the group entered with little previous singing experience, according to Ring, who said they learned quickly from the rigorous schedule and fast­paced atmosphere. 
The club has two major tours, one in fall and the other in spring, as well as a variety of smaller tours throughout the South Bend area. This weekend they will travel to Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota to give six performances, Ring said. 
The dub will appear on Monday Night Football as the pre-game show for the Minnesota Vikings, and will sing the National Anthem before the game, he said. They will also appear on CBS This Morning on December 4. 
Concurrent with these tours, the Glee Club holds two concerts on campus, one in fall, the other in spring. They entertain prior to home football games and at various times during football weekends. 
Public Broadcasting Sta­tions across the country, like WTTW in Chicago and WGBT in Boston, will air the Christmas concert tape. 
Ring is uncertain about the price of the video, but said those interested in buying it may check with the Bookstore or Golden Dome Productions for an estimated cost. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The search for the Lord has begun 
Hey, all you crime stoppers out there, this is a plea for you to put those investigative talents to work on the case of disappearance of the Lord, a saga worthy of a segment on Unsolved 

Mysteries.  Rich Szabo  
Early this year, my RA  Sports Copy  
in  3A  Planner,  Doug  Editor  
Allston,  pulled that old  

mattress gag on some freshmen. You know, where they drag their mattresses downstairs late at night for inspection. Sadly, they fell for it, but then again, they also bought IU pep rally tickets. 
Feeling vengeful, two of the freshmen, Kevin and Marc, conceived a sacrilegious plan to abscond with 3D Jesus, a framed print of Christ on Doug's wall that had the added feature of radiating a soothing light when plugged in. Truly a work of art, 3D Jesus broke down gender barriers {women loved him) and fostered a caring attitude in all he encountered. 
Ah, but how to pull it off? Another fresh­man, Don, in a stroke of criminal brilliance, obtained the picture one day, snatching it while Doug was, urn, relieving himself. Nothing like a simple approach to grand theft religious. 
Next, Eric, a sophomore in my section and apparently the only one with the guts to do this, arranged for the picture to be hung out a third-floor window in PW facing Doug's room. The appropriate ransom notes were sent, and when Doug came in, there was 3D Jesus shining in all his glory from out of PW. 
"The trick was extremely funny," said All­ston. "I walked in and thought 'oh God, it's in PW,' but expected it to be returned." 
This is the mysterious part. That night, 3D was taken from the window and to this day, over a month later, has not been returned. 
Ads were posted begging his captors to return the Lord safely. Spies were even sent undercover to a PW SYR, but to no avail. Could it be that he was expelled for breaking parietals? Is he under house arrest? No one knows, but Doug has not been the same this past month. 
"3D Jesus draws people to him," said All­ston. "Without him, there's a void in my life. I won't press charges, but the offenders may face worse than jail and could have to move to SB." 
The picture must have special meaning, judging by the shocking things that have happened since it vanished. The Braves al­most won the World Series and the power went out all over campus. What could be next? 
Doug's wall is almost bare now, as only a picture of Papa Smurf covers up a once blessed area. It is a lackluster replacement. 
If you have any information which may lead to the return of 3D Jesus, please call Doug Allston or myself. Heavenly rewards, and earthly ones too, are promised, so please come forward. The Lord wants to go home. So find it within the decency of your hearts to help him do so. 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff  
News Sandy Wiegana Ann Marie Hartman  Business Colleen Gannon Andy Runkle  
Illustrations Jake Frost Steve Duenes  Production Kathy Fang Cheryl Moser  
Scoreboard Mike Scrudato  Sports Rolando de Aguiar  
Graphics Brendan Ragan  Systems Fritz Valsaint  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
,Thursday, November 7, 1991
The ObServer, 

FRONTS: COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1991 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 
~ EJ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY 
i) P<~Y £11 
. ::.:·::.= .. .:;:·. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
•BEIJING -China and Vietnam Wednesday they would consider development of disputed isl believed to sit atop rich oil But Chinese Communist Party c Jiang Zemin warned against expecting a sudden leap forward in the relationship between the two countries after 13 years of hostility. "We should stress restoring relations in all fields in a planned way. We better take action only when conditions are ripe and av.oid rash actions," a Foreign Ministry spokesman paraphrased Jiang as telling his Vietnamese counterpart, Do Muoi. The two men announced Tuesday that their nations would normalize relations after years of conflict over Vietnam's invasion of Cambodia in 1978 and China's subsequent punitive \).ttack on Vietnam. 
NATIONAL 
Officer d~smissed because of abuse 
OF INTEREST 
No hospitality luncheon will be held today as originally planned due to the cancellation by the host organization. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ November 6 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 4'.· 
204,014,370 215.30 lrur .60 COMPOSITE A._, 
389.97 1T 1.2 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,038.46 .. 7.1 PRECIOUS METALS GOLD{}-$ 2.70 to $355.40oz. 2¢ to $4.063/oz.

•.::::· ':.::::... .::::. .·: ..:::::,;.,. 
"information developed to 
FORECAST: 
Cold, clouds and sunshine, a flurry or two with highs in the upper 20s and a low of 17. Friday, sunny with a high of 33 and lows dipping into the teens. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  66  50  
Atlanta  53  35  
Berlin  46  39  
Boston  45  34  
Chicago  38  28  
Dallas-Ft.Worth 57  35  
Denver  52  36  
Detroit  35  32  
Honolulu  89  75  
Houston  57  50  
Indianapolis  38  36  
London  52  37  
Los Angeles  88  62  
Miami Beach  77  62  
New Orleans  53  32  
New York  46  34  
Paris  48  36  
Philadelphia  46  28  
Rome  68  59  
St. Louis  49  40  
San Francisco  76  55  
Seattle  59  48  
South Bend  28  17  
Tokyo  61  48  
Washington, D.C.50  32  

date in the ongoing 

investigations relating to the 1991 Tailhook Association Symposium in Las Vegas," said the spokeswoman, Lt. Deborah Carson. 
Wealth wd~ed by differing measures 
Presb~terian church goers harassed 
•wAS INGTON -Every week, members of the Western Presbyterian Church say their services are dis­rupted by chanting protesters who try to scare wor­shipers away. Twice, the protesters' leader was seen cracking a bullwhip. Robert Meyers says he and his followers are exercisinl~ their First Amendment right to protest a land swap the church has worked out with the International Monetary Fund. The church contends he is interfering with its members' ability to hold worship services. The church's lawyer, Frederick Robinson, asked a federal judge Wednesday to order Meyers not to intimidate church members and to stay 100 feet away from the building. "Every Sunday, people have to run a gauntlet to get to chm·ch," Robinson told U.S. District Judge Louis Oberdorfer. "They're harassed; they're verbally assaulted." 
A Right to Life genera.l meeting will be held tonight at 8 
p.m. in Montgomery Th,~atre of LaFortune. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1916: Republican Jeannette Rankin of Montana be­came the first woman eiHcted to Congress. 

• 
In 1917: Russia's Bolshevik Revolution took place as forces led by Vladimir l_enin overthrew the provisional gov­ernment of Alexander KE!rensky. 

• 
In 1918: During World War I, an erroneous report from the United Press that an armistice had been signed set off celebrations across the country. 

• 
In 1973: Congress overrode President Nixon's veto of the 


War Powers Act, which limits a chief executive's power to wage war without congmssional approval. 

r--------------------------------~--------------~--­
Thursday, November 7, 1991 
page 3 
Bush and Senate still talking of unemployment benefits 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Senate 1>1~mocrats may link foreign aid and unemployment benefits in
• 
their boldest gambit yet aimed at portraying Pn~sident Bush as prflf11rring foreign intrigue to dealing with suffering at horne. 
BHfore departing for a NATO· summit in Home today, mean­while, Bush said "people are hurting" and called anew for Congress to pass an extension of aid for the long-term unem­ployed that does not break the budget agreement. 
"I want to see them move 
forward on this unemployment compensation, doing it in a way where the tiny percent that we desperately want to help get helped, but we don't burden the 95 percent... that are paying taxes," said Bush. 
"We eould have had those checks in the mail literally weeks ago. But I must ... try to protect the taxpayers in this country who don't need another tax increase." 
Just as Congress and Bush seemed near a compromise on providing extra benefits, 

Democrat wins 'stunning' victory in Pennsylvania 
PIIILADELPIIIA (AP) -The nation's sour economy and a public fearful about job security and health eare set the stage for Democrat Harris Wofford's stunning victory in Pennsylva­nia's Senate raee. 
Wofford, a tweedy form.er eollege president and one-time Kennedy administration aide, was elevated to the stature of political giant killer Tuesday uftnr defeating former U.S. At­tornny General Dick Thorn­burgh. who at one point held a 40-point edge in the polls. 
Political scientists said Wednesday that Wofford's campaign, which foeusfld on the need for national health care, a middle-class tax cut and other domestic issues. resonated with voters weary of the recession and an administration in Washington that seems unable to turn it around. 
"There's a lot of discontent out there. People are worried. 
There's a tremendous concern about the economy," said Michael Hooper, a professor of political seience at Temple Uni­versity in Philadelphia. 
"Wofford focused on that and focused in on the personal concerns people have, fears for jobs, the lack of health insur­ance. It spoke to a tremendous vein in the publie," Hooper said. 
John Peeler, chairman of the political science department at Bucknell University, said Wof­ford's health care proposal was particularly effective at a time of rising unemployment and problems within the insurance industry. 
"He hit on an issue that is really very much on the minds of people right now," Peeler said. "People are very conscious of their vulner&,bility." 
Wofford met with reporters Wednesday morning in his downtown hotel room and at­tributed his success to the need Democratic senators were close plan, and that the bill could to proposing legislation that reach the floor this week. · would pay for the expanded Word of the Democratic plan eoverage by freezing foreign aid came shortly before the White for five years, said officials who House announced that Bush spoke on condition of would inqefinitely postpone a anonymity. trip to Asia and Australia 


· An aide to Senate Majority scheduled for later this month. Leader George Mitchell, D­The president was said to want Maine, who first proposed pay­to devote more time to the ing for the benefits with the unemployment bill and other foreign aid'reduction, said no items Congress is trying to wrap final deeision to pursue the leg­up before adjourning for the islation has been made. year. 
But three officials said Senate White House budget director leaders had decided on the Richard Darrnan said the ad-

The Observer/David Hungeling 
ZZZZzzzzz 

Sophomore Tom Zipprich dreams of the mere seven weeks left before Christmas break. Yes!! 
Philippine tropical storm kills 2,300 
TACLOBAN, Philippines (AP) -Landslides unleashed by a tropical storm roared down mountains in the Philippines, sweeping screaming victims into the sea. More than 2,300 people died and 1,500 were missing and presumed dead, of­ficials said Wednesday. 
The landslides hit the central islands of Leyte and Negros on Tuesday, burying coastal shan­tytowns under mud, debris and flood waters. 
On Wednesday, scores of bodies still lay in the debris, and rescuers collected bodies, sometimes in wheelbarrows, for mass burials. 
"The water suddenly rose. Cars and trucks were being flushed into Ormoc Bay like toys," said Ruby Gernale, a Red Cross official in Ormoc, a city on Leyte that was hardest-hit by the furious landslides. 
"People were being carried by the waters, crying out for help. But we were helpless," she said. "The current was so strong." 
One horrific landslide that hit the Ormoc area swept over shantytowns, crumbling the 

SQUASH TOURNAMENT 
*MEN"S AND WOMEN'S DIVISIONS 
TABLE TENNIS SINGLES 
*MEN"S AND WOMEN'S DIVISIONS 
CO-ED WATER LACROSSE 
ND STUDENTS, FACULTV AND STAFF ARE ELIGIBLE 
DEADLINE -NOVEMBER 13 
I 
ministration would oppose the foreign aid proposal and that it would jeopardize efforts to quiekly enact a benefits bill. 
"If that is still alive, that just slows the whole thing down," he said. 
Democrats have been trying since the summer to enact legislation adding up to 20 weeks of unemployment benefits for people who use up the regular 26 weeks of coverage without finding new work. 

flimsy shacks under the weight of mud and debris. Many of those killed were children, and workers were digging mass graves Wednesday for the vic­tims. 
The disaster came during Tropical Storm Thelma's sweep over the region, 450 miles southeast of Manila. The na­tional government in Manila only became aware of the scope of the disaster on Wednesday, however, because of poor communications with the area. 
Tropical Storm Thelma 


AP 
The Observer 

page 4 Thursday, November 7, 1991 
Location dispute will not stop peace talks 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Foreign Minister David Levy said Wednesday that disagreement over the location of bilateral peace talks between Israel and its Arab neighbors would not endanger the peace process. 
The issue emerged as a key stumbling block during the first phase of the peace conference in Madrid, Spain. Israel wants the talks to alternate between Israeli cities and those of the Arab participants, while Syria has insisted they be held at a neutral location. 
"The Syrian insistence on conducting talks far from our region is not good news, and of course is not a message of peace. We hope they will change their mind," Levy said in a speech to Parliament. 
But ''I'm convinced that dis­agreements over the location of talks do not endanger the pro­cess," he added. 

Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's spokesman, Ehud Gol, said Wednesday that Israel would listen to other proposals if the Middle East was definitely ruled out as a site for the talks. 
"We still hold to our position that the talks should take place in the region, and we will try to consult and reach that goal," Gol said. "If this doesn't work we will hear other proposals." 
Israeli newspapers have speculated that Rhodes or Cyprus might be acceptable compromise Sites. 
Gol said Israel would consider only countries near the Middle East. 
On Tuesday, Secretary of State James Baker III called on Israel and its Arab neighbors to decide where to hold the next round of talks within .two weeks. 

The Observer/John Rock 
Merry sort of Christmas 
Morrissey Manor residents play a practical joke on one of their own late Tuesday night. These so-called buddies were giff-wrapping their friend's room as an early Christmas present. 
Former aide's Iran-Contra role investigated 
WASHINGTON (AP) Prosecutors on Wednesday questioned former Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams as they sought to show that a one-time aide to President Bush was implicated in the scandal, sources familiar with the investigation said. 
Prosecutors also have subpoenaed former National Security Council aide Oliver North and for questioning as part of the effort to show Iran­Contra involvement on the part of Donald Gregg, now the U.S. ambassador to Korea. 

Gregg was Bush's national security adviser in the Reagan era when Bush was vice president. 
1\vo sources familiar with the investigation, speaking on condition of anonymity, described the North subpoena and questioning of Abrams before a federal grand jury as a last-ditch effort to show that Gregg has been covering up his knowledge of the affair. 
Gregg has denied knowing 
about North's resupply 
operation to the Nicaraguan 
Contras and never told Bush 
about it. 

Bush has said he was 
unaware of North's network 
until after it was publicly ·exposed late in 1986. 
Abrams pleaded guilty to a 
pair of misdemeanors in the 
scandal on Oct. 7 and the 
former assistant secretary for 
inter-American Affairs agreed 
to cooperate with Iran-Contra 
prosecutors. 

North oversaw the supply of 
Smoke from eastern fires drifts through Pennsylvania 
DUNBAR, W.Va. (AP) ­
Smoke from thousands of acres 
of burning woodlands reduced 
visibility in parts of West Vir­
ginia to less than a half-mile 
Wednesday and residents were 
warned of high air pollution 
levels. 
The smoke had drifted into 
central Pennsylvania and was 
heading toward Philadelphia 
and New York City. 
More than 1,000 fires have 
burned more than 250,000 . acres in nine Appalachian states since Oct. 26. At least 600 fires have burned more 
than 200,000 acres in West 
Virginia, including 26 fires 
Wednesday, the state Division of 
Forestry said. 
Fires were generally out or 
under control in Kentucky, Ge­
orgia, Maryland, North 
Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina, 
Tennessee and Virginia. 
West Virginia's largest active 
fire Wednesday had burned 
more than 11,000 acres on 
Blair Mountain in Logan 
County, the Division of Forestry 
said. 
Seven new fires also were re­
ported in eastern and central 

West Virginia, including three caused by arsonists and two by hunters who dropped ci­garettes, the division said. 
"If people would just settle down and not set any more I think we'd be out of the woods over the weekend," said Alan Miller, head of fire control for the division. "It's wearing our people out." 
West Virginia has had no significant precipitation in more than three weeks, and none was forecast until at least Sunday, the National Weather Service said. 
Little wind and low tempera­tures acted like a lid Wednes­day and kept thick smoke close to the ground, said weather service meteorologist Jerry Or­chanian in Charleston. 
By midafternoon, light wind began to disperse the smoke, increasing visibility to three miles. 
At higher altitudes, wind moving at 30 mph pushed the smoke toward the north and east. 
At midmorning, smoke re­duced visibility at Pittsburgh to 1 1/2 miles and was noticeable 
Peruvian leader is sacked 
LIMA, Peru (AP) -President Alberto Fujimori sacked his prime minister Wednesday in the third major Cabinet shakeup of his 15-month-old administration. 
The announcement followed an upsurge of violence in the Andean nation that has left scores of people dead in five days. The attacks have led some Peruvians to question whether the nation is becoming engulfed in a generalized civil war. 
The president selected Labor Minister Alfonso de los Heros to replace embattled Carlos Torres y Torres Lara as prime minister and shuffied 10 other ministries, key among them in­terior and defense. 
Gen. Victor Malca was moved from interior to replace Gen. Jorge Torres Aciego at defense, and Army Gen. Juan Briones became the new interior minis­ter. 
Torres y Torres had moved from the Labor Ministry 10 months ago to serve as both prime minister and foreign minister. He was criticized over the summer for his handling of a border dispute with Ecuador, during which he failed to de­mand Ecuador pull an army de­tachment from a contested jun­gle region. 
None of the original ministers in Fujimori's 15-member Cabi­net remain. In January he re­placed three ministers and in February four others. 

in Erie and Harrisburg, Pa., and northern Virginia, Orcha­nian said. 
"They probably will see some of the smoke in Washington, but I think the main thrust will be toward the north and east," he said. "I think possibly it may work into New York City later today." 
The air in Charleston was "hazardous," said Venisa Flesher, acting laboratory su­pervisor for state Air Pollution Control Commission . 
Flesher said the pollution in­dex reading Wednesday was 353, the worst since the fires began. 

weapons to the Contras for two years after Congress cut off military aid to the Nicaraguan rebels. 
Gregg in 1985 arranged for ex-CIA operative Felix Rodriguez to go to El Salvador, where Rodriguez eventually went to work for North's Contra operation. 
Gregg says he didn't know that Rodriguez was helping the Contras until Aug. 8, 1986, when Rodriguez complained to him about how the operation was being run. 

Go to Meanwhile 
Flower DeliverY. 7 Days 
fl@'SY 0 Ppttk 

Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
~';:~~3rNS::,. (219) 277·1291 

South Bn IN 46637 P•lll AIIWWid Z4 bra. 
All you can eat for $1.00 from 9 · 11 pm The nightly special for $1.00 each Thursday Nov. 7th 
The Observer 

Thursday, November 7, 1991 page 5 
House stops ban on abortion counseling 
WASHINGTON (APJ-The House votnd 272-156 Wednes­day to bloek the Bush adminis­tration's ban on abortion coun­seling at fnderally funded family planning clinks. But the margin was well short of that needed to override President Bush's thnmtmwd veto. 
The Housll approved a $204 billion health, education and labor spnnding bill that indudes language blocking for one year thn administration's ban on counseling. Critics call that ban a "gag rul«L" 
Dnspite winning, abortion­rights advocates wern disap­pointed tlwy fnll short of a two­thirds, or vr.to-proof, majority. 
"I lind it a very sad day," said Hnp. Patricia Schroeder, D-Colo. and an opponent of the ban on abortion ~~ounsnling. "I hope Anwrican women remember how tlw i r represen tati ves voted. They voted to treat them like ehildnm, not like adults." 
Both thn Housn and the Sen­ate previously approved the bill. Wednesday's vote was on ac­el~pting a !louse-Senate confer­ence rnport reconciling differ­ences. Thn measure also faced a Senate vote. 
On thn eve of the vote, a group of Hepublicans charged thn bill utilized budget trickery to providn $4 billion for pro­grams by pushing outlays into the next fiscal year. They urged rejection of the measure for that reason; opponents of the gag rule said that issue reduced votns for the bill. 
"What you see here is a leg­
islative shell game," said House 
Minority Leader Robert Michel, 
R-Ill. 
Bush has threatened to veto any bill negating the counseling ban. Seeking to avoid what could be the first override of his veto, Bush released a memo Tuesday aimed at persuading lawmakers that the restrictions would not be interpreted strictly. But opponents said Bush's memo had no legal ef­fect. 
"The White House memo· is designed to get the administra­tion ofT the hook on the gag rule and provide its gag-rule supporters in the Housn protec­tion," said Hep. Les AuCoin, D­Ore. 
The ban against abortion counseling at federally assisted family planning clinics was im­posed by the Heagan adminis­tration in 1988, continued by Bush and upheld by the Supreme Court last May. Bush has gained support for his stand from conservatives, who say the ban helps prevent abortions. 
"This is not a gag rule," said Rep. Christopher Smith, R-N.J., a leader of anti-abortion forces in the House. "It's a prenatal care rule. It's about taxpayer­subsidized abortion advocacy." 
The restrictions have never been implemented because of court orders blocking them. Unless legislation is enacted holding off the counseling ban, the restrictions are expected to take effect in several months. 

Notre Dame Communication & Theatre presents: 
National Players 
America's longest 
rnnning classical 

touring company 
Mifl\CLE 
WORKER 
BYWJLLIAM GIBSON 
Wednesday, November 13 8:10p.m. Thursday, November 14 8:10p.m. Friday, November 15 8:10p.m. Saturday, November 16 8:10p.m. Sunday, November 17 3:10p.m. 
Reserved seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available tor Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday perfor­mances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders call239-8128. 
WASHINGTON HALL 

Vatican leaders reject idea of married priests 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Vatican leaders have rejected a pro­posal that married men be or· dained to alleviate the worsening shortage of priests, an archbishop wrote in a letter released Wednesday. 
Rembert Weakland, in a January letter to area Catholics, became the first American bishop to openly urge the church to consider married clergy. 
Observers of the Roman Catholic Church predicted the suggestion would anger the Vatican because Pope John Paul II has said he would never drop the requirement that all priests be celibate men. 
Vatican Secretariat of State Archbishop Angelo Sodano replied to Weakland that his suggestion was "out of place," Weakland wrote in a pastoral letter released Wednesday. 
Sodano said the pope would address the priest shortage with other suggestions at a fu­ture date, Weakland wrote. 
Archdiocesan spokesman Greg Bell said he didn't know if Weakland was given rea­sons for the Vatican's rejec­tion and didn't know what solutions the pope might propose. Weakland wasn't available to comment, Bell said. 
Vatican officials have re­buked Weakland in the past. They refused last year to let a SWiss university give him an honorary degree because of his views on abortion. 
Weakland had suggested that church officials modify their approach to abortion, which is condemned as a sin. 
Wash. voters oppose 'right to die' proposal 
SEATTLE (AP) -Washington voters rejected the nation's first ballot proposal legalizing euthanasia for the terminally ill, but proponents insisted to­day the fight for the "right to die" was just beginning. 
With 84 percent of precincts counted, Initiative 119 failed with 529,099, or 46 percent voting yes, and 624,606, or 54 percent opposed. 
"I do not think this issue is going away at all, and the next state to face this issue is likely to be much more alert to the distortions we heard in this campaign" from foes, said Margaret Battin, a University of Utah bioethicist who supported the initiative. 
"I think the opposition cre­ated fear in the electorate ­fear that there weren't enough safeguards," said Deborah Senn, a spokeswoman for the initiative. "I feel very strongly the opposition lied and dis­torted the initiative." 
But Arthur Caplan, a Univer­sity of Minnesota medical ethi­cist who criticized the initiative, said the measure "was poorly written," and "in some ways took public policy to a boundary that the voters of Washington clearly weren't ready to cross quite yet." 
"But I have no doubt at all that this is merely the first round in what is going to be a long and heated debate on the issue of euthanasia," he said. 
At least $2.3 million was spent campaigning for and against the initiative, state Public Disclosure Commission records showed. Backers out­spent foes by nearly 3 to 1. 
Washington state's "death with dignity" initiative, which drew worldwide attention, would have legally sanctioned active euthanasia, such as a lethal injection, and assisted suicide, such as prescribing a deadly dose of pills. 
Similar proposals are pending in Oregon, California, Florida and Washington, D.C. 
Euthanasia is practiced widely in Holland, where it is il­legal but largely tolerated. 
The national debate over euthanasia was further fueled recently after Dr. Jack Kevorkian, a retired Michigan pathologist, provided suicide machines to two chronically ill women who used them to kill themselves Oct. 23. 
Seniors ofAll Majors Are Invited to a Presentation on 
Opportunztzes zn• Investment Banking 
Thursday, November 7, 1991 University Club, Main Lounge 7:00P.M. 
Representatives ofMorg?'n Stanley will be present to du;cuss: 
• The Investment Banking Industry ~ Opportunities in the Financittl Analyst Program 
Refreshments Provided 
Contact the University ofNotre Dame Career an~ Placement Services Center for additional informatwn 
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. 
Incorporated 
Prayer ban may be eased 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
Bush administration today 
urged the Supreme Court to re­
lax its 29-year ban on officially 
sponsored worship in public 
schools so prayers may be spo­
ken at graduation and promo­
tion ceremonies. 
Students who participate in 
such ceremonies realize they 
are not in a classroom setting, 
contended Solicitor General 
Kenneth Starr. the administra­
tion's top courtroom lawyer. 
"You may hear things you 
don't like and you don't agree 
with," Starr said in assessing 
the reaction of some students. 
"That's part of a free society." 
The court is expected to de­
cide by July a dispute over 
invocations and benedictions at 
high school graduations and 
junior high school promotion 
ceremonies in Providence, R.I. 
Lower courts, using a test 
fashioned by the Supreme 
Court, banned such prayers 
after ruling that they violate the 
constitutionally required 
separation of church and state. 
In a lively, 60-minute session 
today, many of the justices' 
questions focused on the con­
tinued vitality of that test in de­
termining whether a govern­
ment practice violates that part 
of the Constitution banning "an 
establishment of religion." 
Many of the questions, as 
well, showed how difficult the 
job of drawing lines between 
permissible and impermissible 
practices can be. 
Keating lawyer won't call witness 
LOS ANGELES (AP) Charles Keating Jr.'s defense attorney said Wednesday he will rest his case without call­ing a witness and will tell jurors that prosecutors never proved Keating defrauded in­vestors at his Lincoln Savings. 
Stephen Neal said the prose­cution's own witnesses in state court here provided ample evi­dence that Keating never in­tended to dupe small investors who lost more than $200 mil­lion buying junk bonds, mainly at Lincoln branches. 
"I am not going to put on any evidence. I believe that the peo­ple have totally failed to prove the charges against my client," Neal said in a telephone inter­view. 
"Even if you assume that there were omissions and mis­representations -and r don't concede that -but even if you do, there is utterly no evidence connecting Charles Keating to those," Neal said. 
Closing arguments, based on testimony of 53 prosecution witnesses, were scheduled for Tuesday. Unless the jury dead­locks, a quick end appears in sight to the first criminal case stemming from Lincoln's col­lapse, which cost taxpayers a record $2.6 billion. 

Neal's high-risk decision fol­lows a two-month prosecution case against Keating, whose risky investments in land and securities, lavish political dona­tions and luxurious lifestyle helped make him a symbol of the nation's savings and loan debacle. 

page 6 The Observer Thursday, November 7, 1991 
Bush says he would vote a~Jainst Duke 

Forum 
continued from page 1 

the marital relationship that the use of the sexual faculty can be morally good. A person engaging in homosexual behav­ior therefore acts immorally." 
When the Church rejects "erroneous opinions regarding homosexuality, it defends per­sonal freedom and dignity," he continued. The Catholic Church 
Sophomore John Huljak experiences first-hand the amount of hard 
explicitly teaches that homo­
work that goes into a typical meal at the dining hall. At dinner on 
sexual activity is immoral and
Wednesday night, John was in charge of the jello tray. 

that the tendency itself is a dis­
abortion 
continued from page 1 
abortion. 
Alvare also said that most pro-choice supporters are fail­ing to address the real issue. "Post Abortive Syndrome is not a result of women worrying about whether they exercised their freedom of choice. It re­sults from a woman's concern that she might have killed a human baby. 
"Literature supporting legal abortion grapples with pro­choice rhetoric," said Alvare, "this is a terrible disservice, the real issue is not being raised. 
"Abortion does not solve the problem that got them (women) there. The solution is to target the social institutions that are perpetuating the position of women," Alvare said. 
"The cheap quick fix of abor­tion is a trade-off for the real answers to their problems," she said. 
Alvare also related Christian ideals to the pro-life and femi-

BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) ­President Bush on Wednesday fired his sharpest criticism yet at former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke, saying he'd vote for Democrat Edwin Edwards in the gubernatorial runoff if he lived in Louisiana. 
Meanwhile, Duke, the nominal GOP candidate, and Edwards, a former three-term governor, clashed in a televised debate Wednesday evening. 
In a terse exchange with a black reporter, Duke repudiated his past Klan associations while pushing his campaign stand against race-based affirmative action programs. 
"You don't make up for past discrimination by putting more discrimination on top of it," Duke told WDSU reporter 
order and is harmful to the human person, he contended. 
nist positions. She emphasized 
Mcinerny pointed out that
the traditions of creation, 
many people today "accept theChrist as a human being and 
homosexual condition as
the Christian ideals of love and though it were not disordered .
freedom in support of her ar­and condone homosexual activ­
gument. 

ity." Such a belief is false, he"A freedom that cries out for said, and is "opposed to theabortion is an oxymoron. Real truth about the human person,
freedom is freedom for the 
which is fully disclosed in theother, including the unborn," mystery of Christ." 
Alvare said. She made a clear Homosexual persons needdistinction between free choice 
and deserve pastoral care,
and freedom: "Do free choices Mcinerny said. Frankness onmake us free? No. Discipline the Church's part regarding themakes us free. The Christian 
disorder of homosexual ten­
tradition of freedom is to em­
dency is necessary and
ploy our free will to do good." 

compassionate to the
Alvare admitted that her pro­homosexual person, he said.
life feminist position does not 
All support should be with­
provide an overnight solution, drawn from "any organizations 
instead it promotes equality which seek to undermine theand change over a period of 
teaching of the Church, whichtime. But, she said, "the prac­
are ambiguous about it, or
tice of abortion only perpetu­which neglect it entirely," he ates the position of women in added.
society." 

During the rebuttal period, 
Norman Robinson. Robinson said he was concerned about anti-black and anti-Jewish re­marks Duke made during his tenure with the Klan in the 1970s, his leadership of the Na­tional Association for the Ad­vancement of White People and his association with neo-Nazis in the 1980s. 
Edwards followed up the ex­change by pointing to news re­ports that Klan leaders in other states are rounding up support for Duke. 
"In Texas and in Iowa the Klan people have already an­nounced that they're coming down here to help their friend, Mr. Duke," Edwards said. "I hope they behave themselves." 
Duke, a state representative, faces Edwards in a Nov. 16 runoff. They bumped Gov. 
Bradley, questioning the infalli­bility of the Catholic doctrine regarding homosexuality, stated that Church teaching has changed throughout the cen­turies. He denied some Scrip­tural interpretations that Mcinerny quoted from Vatican II documents. 
Bradley also said the morality of homosexual actions is sub­jective and the decision to en­gage in sexual activity does not affect the Catholic character of the given individual. 
Mcinerny said that any inter­pretation of Scripture that is inconsistent with Church teach­ing is false. The truth revealed by Christ is not subjective, he said. 
In the question-answer period following the rebuttals, Bradley stated that the homosexual tendency is not disordered, and asserted that the Catholic Church's doctrine on this issue 
CHELA ,JOHNSON 

H A 

p p y 
I 9th 

Dad, Jean, Elspeth, Jroelle, Tamarack, nowball, Shadow, Nina and the 22 Guppies 
THE NOTRE DAME SPORTS & ENTERTAINMENT LAW STUDENT ASSOCIATIO~I 
Presents a lecture by: 
Mr. Dick Ebersol President, NBC Sports 
(Co-Founder, Producer of NBC's "Saturday Night Live," Former Head of NBC Special Events, Variety and_ Comedy, NBC Acquired broadcast rights to NllA Basketball & Notre Dame Football under Mr. Ebersol's Direction, Co-Executive P1roducer of 1992 
When: Where: Time: Admission:


Barcelona Olympic Games) 
Thursday, November 7, 1991 Notre Dame Law School Courtroom (2nd Floor') 
7:00p.m. 
Free!!!!! 
Buddy Roemer from the race in the primary. 
Bush has spoken out against Duke, but until Wednesday had never said he would vote for Duke's opponent if he were eli­gible. 
At a news conference in Washington, Bush said he would vote for Edwards if he could, and criticized pro-Nazi views that Duke espoused well into the 1980s. 
"When someone asserts that the Holocaust never took place, then I don't believe that person ever deserves one iota of public trust," Bush said. 
"And when someone has so Pecently endorsed Naziism, it is inconceivable that such a per­son can legitimately aspire to ... a leadership role in a free soci­ety." 
is incorrect. He said he would not object to pastoral programs geared to lead homosexuals to a chaste life, but added that he supports groups that are opposed to Catholic teaching. 
Mcinerny said the Authority of the Church is not an exter­nal, opposing force. The Church is not subject to norms of society; rather, it transmits Christ's infallible message. The Church's teaching sexual morality will not change, Mcin­erny said. He added that the Church's mission is to lead our souls to our salvation. 
The debate allotted each speaker a fifteen-minute period in which to present his argu­ment. Each speaker then rebut­ted the other for a five minute period, and a question-answer period followed. 
The Student Union Board and the Graduated Student Union sponsored this forum. 

Business 
Thursday, November 7, 1991 page? 
ND junior invents spiral pen 
He plans to market it at Chicago trade show 
By COLLEEN GANNON 
Business Editor 
Mike Hochstetler will not wait for graduation to put his busi­ness knowledge to use. 
The Notrn Dame junior mar­keting major has invented a new product, 'the worm' pen, and will soon attempt to secure buyers at the 11th National Baek-to-School Merchandise Show. 
llochstetler claims his unique pen will improve writing and relieve writer's cramp, fatigue and callouses. The spiral de­sign of the pen allows the thumb and index finger to fall comfortably into the pen's curvns, giving more surface contact. More surface contact less1ms the grip pressure neces­sary and thus relieves muscle fatigue, according to llochstetler. 
"In addition to the different look and dnsign; the pen has function to it. When you grip it, it actually feels better in your hand," he said. Hochstetler's own experience using the pen provides the only proof for his claims. 
Pencil grippers used during his high school years gave Hochstetler the idea to create 'the worm' pml, he said. 
"1 wanted something built into the design of the pen it­self." he explained. Finding the pencil grippers inadequate, he sat down with a pocket knife and carved a mold out of soap. Hochstetler spent three years developing the spiral design used for 'the worm' pen. 'The worm' will be offered in hot wlors mixed in a marble de­sign. 
Hochstetler will attend the Back-To-Sdwol Merchandise 


Weithers discusses changing business world 
Mike Hochstetler 
Show, featuring manufacturers of office, stationery and home products, in Chicago on Nov. 12-14. A booth to display his pen at the show will cost Hochstetler $2,000 for three days, a commitment which he said puts the success of his project on the line. 
llochstetler will compete with larger, established pen compa­nies including PENTECH and Paper-mate. 
Currently, Hochstetler manu­facturers the pen himself in a lengthy process at his home, since he does not have the capi­tal to manufacture them com­mercially in large numbers. 
"In making the presentation, I am trying to get orders (for the pen) so that I could line up investors to follow through to provide it in mass production," he said. Hochstetler expressed confidence that the show may allow him to make contact with a company that will pick up his new item. 
lie will target three major companies to sell 'the worm' pen: Wal-Mart, Dayton Hudson Corp.. and K-Mart. 
Hochstetler fashions his 

By MARA DIVIS Business Writer 
Europ11an and American countries will compete tiercely in the future, according to John WeithHrs, chief executive offi<~er of the Midwest Stock Exchango. 
Weithers, a Notr1~ Dame graduate. discussed the ever­changing international businoss world and the future relations between the United Stut<1s and other industrialized nations during his presentation Wednesday. 
"I think you're going into a very interesting world, " he said. "You're going to be entt~r­ing the workforce in the dfH:ade wht~re international sense is important." 
Welthers explained that the European Industrialized na­tions will offer the United States inert~asod competition throughout the 1990s due to industrial expansion and teeh­nologieal advrmees in those eountrles. 
"Europe will btl a formidable force to compete with our com­panies." he said. 
This sense of competition has pushnd European nations to inerease their stllf-relianee and to depend less on for1~lgn workers, Weithers added. "It's a large problem, but it gives an ldt~a of how we're going to have to work hard," he said. 
Weithers also said that the decrease in the availability of capital in a global sense has affected the buying and selling of stock. 
"On a global basis, there is a shortage of capital," Weithers said. "The United States used to be a large supplier of capi· tal. We are no longer. The question is how do we get it in an et'ficient way. We need a way of looking for it." 
"Money is moving across na­tional boundaries. People who need capital are trying desper· ately to get it," he added. 
On a more domestic perspec· tivt~. Weithers said that major restructuring of large institu­tions and corporations will oc­cur. This will include a loss of jobs in various departments within large companies, he said. 
"Hestructuring will involve layoffs and changes in job re­sponsibility." he stated. "They won't be pleasant times." 
He cited an example of' a bank in Chicago that restruc­turod its legal departmont, and as a result, laid off all its lawyers and legal staff. 
William Shannon, Saint Mary's professor of business administration and economics, said that the aim of the presentation was to unite the different divisions of the business department. 
... ........ 
-···•·•· 


company, Spiral Technologies Inc., in a similar manner to PENTECH. PENTECH sells writing tools such as pencils with finger notches built into them. Through in-depth re­search on PENTECH, Hochstetler said he has figured out many· of their strategies and plans to use some of them. One of these strategies is to use a foreign manufacturer. 
He expressed concern about stores selling the pen at a price higher than the $1.99 suggested retail price. If the pen sells well, stores may raise the price. Hochstetler said he does not want that to happen to 'the worm' pen. 
Hochstetler's patent for 'the worm' pen is currently pending. 
He began securing a patent by finding a Fort Wayne lawyer to represent him. He approxi­mated the base cost for a lawyer's services at $4,000. Hochstetler had to write a summary of all the benefits of ,the pen. 
1 1 
Then, the lawyer rewrote his 1 summary in legal form and ,
,
terminology. After he reread 
,
the lawyer's revised version, it 
,
was submitted to the Patent Trademark Office. 
1 1 1
He checked PENTECH's patent numbers on their Grip­1 Stit:k pencils, but did not find a 
~ 
patent previously issued for the ,spiral design of 'the worm' pen. ''I'm pretty sure that they will ~ grant the patent," he said. 1 
,1 
Hochstetler noted that an un­dergraduate entrepreneur club I} 1 does not exist. He has joined 
the MBA Entrepreneur Club, Photo courtesy of Spiral Technologies, Inc. ~ 1
but encourages undergraduate Mike Hochstetler, a Notre Dame junior, has invented a new spiral de­, entrepreneurs to join together sign 'worm' pen. Hochstetler will display his pen at the Back-to-School ,Merchandise Show in Chicago on November 12-14. ,
to form a club. 
Why you should care about decline in rates ~ 
NEW YORK (AP)-A drop in the cost of borrowing means those monthly payments for a new car or washing machine might be manageable after all. It means you might want to re­finance your mortgage or ob­tain a home-equity loan. 
But the cut in interest rates doesn't mean those double-digit rates on your credit-card bill will fall. Nor does it mean your neighborhood bank will be more willing to grant loans. 
Moreover, cheaper interest rates also mean lower yields on savings accounts -you're get­ting less income for keeping the same sum of money in the bank. 
It also means foreign in­vestors, an important source of capital in the economy, may put their money in countries where interest rates are higher. 
Here is a look at what the in­terest rate declines mean to millions of ordinary Americans: 
What happened Wednesday? 

The Federal Reserve, the na­tion's central bank, cut two im­portant rates for loans to banks, the discount rate and federal funds rate. The banks, with their cost of borrowing lowered, cut the prime rate, the basis for a range of other loan rates to customers. The prime rate fell a half percentage point to 7.5 percent, the fifth drop this year and the lowest level in five years. 
So how does this affect the consumer? 
Anyone contemplating a ma­jor purchase bought with a bank loan will save some money because of this drop, since many consumer loan rates at banks are tied to the movement of the prime rate. 
"If you're a borrower, you're in good shape," said John Wil­son, chief economist at the Bank of American in San Fran­cisco. "It means the general rates you pay on your loans are going down." 
A $10,000 car loan with an interest rate of 12 percent over five years. for example, costs about $223 a month. At 11.5 percent, the monthly payment is $220 month, for a total savings of $180. 
Why did the Federal Reserve cut rates? 
Evidence is growing that the economy is faltering badly un­der the weight of rising unem­ployment, bankruptcies, anx­ious consumers, stagnant in­come growth and falling de­mand for U.S. products at home and abroad. 
The Federal Heserve's action, coming right before the important Christmas shopping season, presumably will lure more borrowers into banks for money that will be spent to buy homes, cars, appliances, clothes and other goods that will stimulate sales, raise production, create jobs and douse the economic gloom that has prevailed lately. 
Isn't there any other way the government can stimulate the economy? 
The Bush administration, alarmed at popular discontent with the economy as an election year looms, has raised the pos­sibility of a tax cut, which would give Americans more money to spend. 
But some economists say that option creates greater inflation, which leads to higher interest rates and a heightened chance of a more painful recession. 
Does this mean it's a good time to buy a home or refinance an existing mortgage? 
Generally, yes. Mortgage rates have been declining steadily for months and could fall further. The one-year adjustable rate mortgage, for example, is now at 6.59 percent, down from 7.8 percent in January and the lowest since this type of loan was introduced a decade ago. The average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage now at 8.88 percent, the lowest level since 1977. 
Banks have reported a sharp increase in the number of appli­cations for mortgage refinanc­ings, in which homeowners borrow at the new prevailing lower rates to pay off their old mortgage loans. 1-ISII Associ­ates, a publisher of mortgage information in Butler, N.J., says 52 percent of loan applications are now for refinancings, vs. the normal 15 percent. 
------~----­
~--­

Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, November 7, 1991 
-------1..-:=Y~ --­
--Ih-e-0-bse.-r-'~er-


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •......•.••••••••....•.Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .•••••.••.•.......Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .••••... Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ..••...•.•.•... David Dieteman Production Manager ..........•• Jay Colucci Accent Editor ••.•••••••••••......John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor •••••..•.••Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ....•.••••••Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students encouraged to support GE boycott 
Dear Editor: 
As General Electric conducts interviews on the Notre Dame campus this week, I feel com­pelled to warn our community about the threats this corpora­tion poses to our environment and to the lives of many Americans. 
INFACT, as defined in its June 1991 news bulletin, "is an international grassroots orga­nization of concerned people organizing effective campaigns to stop the life-threatening abuses of transnational corpo­rations". INFACT is largely re­sponsible for the GE Boycott and has recruited millions to join them in their battle to stop General Electric from produc­ing nuclear weapons. 
INFACT/GE Campaign is cur­rently distributing a video enti­tled "Deadly Deception" that gives examples of General Electric's threat in several ar­eas of the United States. Such examples include the tragic story of the victims of the Hanford Nuclear Weapons 

DOONESBURY 
TO 813 HONE5T IIJITH YOU, I 5!/U-C"AN'TBW&V& 1:11 HAD<­IN6. I MeAN, ONl-Y TWO 

YCA/?!3 AGO, MY CAR&l3R. ~=-=~ t£145 ONA !<VU-.' 

Reservation, Washington, who were exposed to significant amounts of radiation that General Electric knowingly leaked. The video will be shown tonight at 7:00 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns, sponsored by the World Peace Action Group. 
I encourage you to attend, and I challenge each of you to join in the World Peace Action Group in boycotting GE by signing the petitions at the table near the Hesburgh Library either today or Friday. 
I realize that there are many important issues to be ad­dressed in today's world, and people only have so much time to devote to them. Signing this petition will only take a minute of your time and will have an impact on the preservation of our world_. Please join the GE Boycott-make a difference to­day. 
Christine Kempf World Peace Action Group Nov. 4,1991 
Dear Editor: 

As students at Notre Dame, we live in an environment that supplies us with everything we need. We might not live in the lap of luxury. but we have a place to sleep and food to eat. There are millions that do not share this gift that we have. There are poor and homeless that you see lying in doorways if you drive downtown at night. 
They are the people who ask you if you have any "spare change." How do these people survive without food in their 
Shirts reflect disturbing1 attitudes 
Dear Editor: 

In his letter, (The Observer, Nov. 1) Bill Stovel claims that T­shirts such as the "Chauvinist Club" or "Stanford Studs" are nothing more than humor. While the wearing of such T­shirts may not fit the legal (or Du Lac) definition of sexual ha­rassment, they do reflect under­lying attitudes that are anything but funny or benign. 
According to FBI statistics, a 
stomach and a roof over their heads? There are few people who know how they do survive. The Urban Plunge allows those who do not know to learn. To learn what is going wrong in today's cities and what is being done to help those who need it most. It lets Notre Dame students see what happens to the money they place in the collection basket on Sundays. Most of all it gives you the chance to see that the poor and the homeless are no different than those people with money 
.md houses. They are people and they need your help. 
So get involved with what is ~~oing on in the world today, help those who need you to help. For without the help of others, the poor and the homeless would not survive. Let the Urban Plunge be your start to making a difference in a situation that cannot run out of volunteers. Deadline for application is Friday. 
Willie Bruening Stanford Hall Nov. 7,1991 

minutes (every two minutes after adjusting for underre­porting), and wife abuse is three times as common as rape. Given that we live in a society in which the physical abuse of women is so pervasive, depic­tions of men dominating women and exerting control over them are hardly good clean fun. 
The fact that Mr. Stoval finds these amusing is really rather disturbing. To expect women not to be offended by these images in a violent, sexist mciety like ours is absurd. 
Mr. Stoval argues that to ob­ject to these T-shirts disrupts the peaceful existence of the men at Notre Dame. I believe that the attitude that images of domination over women are funny poses a more real and di­rect threat to the peaceful exis­tence of women everywhere. 
Amy Eckert 
Pasquerilla East 
Nov. 4, 1991 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I OONTMEAN 70 50UNDUI<& 

A MIOOtbaA:btu-1/NeR,/?UT YOU GOT 
'Imagination is more important
7H& OPFORJVNITIES Jl/5T APROE3UM, III<£N'T 7H&R& ANYMCF£;. ?HIS 1-AOY? 
than knowledge.'
cawTf?YHA'3 KICKW U5!N 7H£ TeaH! THeRe'S A toTOF 
PA!Na.JT 
Albert Einstein 

Imagine all the people submitting to: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Thursday, November 7, 1991 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student snubbed by Obnoxious drunk embodies ND spirit 
Dear Editor: Undoubtedly, the recipient sang likely go unrewarded, and you I would like to personally your praises with every stitch will remain an unknown face in
rude State Trooper commend the fine individual pulled through his scalp. the crowd. I therefore beg of who, during the second quarter If there is a God, then surely you, step forward and receive 
Dear Editor: needed to move on. Not only of the Navy football game, your valiant show of spirit was your much deserved applause! hurled a liquor bottle into the captured for eternity on televi­Write to The Observer, boldly
After attending this university was this officer extremely rude 
audience. This upstanding sion before a national audience. reveal your identity, and tell usfor two and a half years, I feel and hostile, he acted as though 
member of the student body, The entire country assuredly all about the pride coursing
that I must exprnss my opinion I was prime material for an ar­
seated in section 30, fully and looked on in awe, realizing the through your heart as that bot­on several recent occurrences rest. For those who don't know proudly embodies all that is caliber of character that flour­tle left your hand!
that have bothered me. The me, I am 5'3" and under one­
Notre Dame. ishes under the Dome. A warm You are an inspiration. You first of these occurrences has to hundred pounds. Intimidating Bravo to you who choose to feeling of pride will certainly embody the courage and honor 
do with the dining hall. I wish is not a word frequently used to express your Irish pride by lob­wash over you as you replay we, as a university of higher that the dining hall would describe me. bing a glass container into the the tape for relatives, business education, strive for. You are publish a list of the items that After I was forced to move on, unsuspecting crowd. Hopefully, associates, or visiting priests. all that Father Sorin envi­are acceptable or unacceptable I parked on the outskirts of it shattered upon the back of My only fear is that you were sioned. You are the glorious to carry out of the dining hall. campus, in a resident's front someone's skull, spraying fans too drunk to clearly remember beacon of light mankind 
I am appalled to find out that yard, and paid $4.00. I was with shards of glass, and leav­your gallant effort. But even if reaches for. To quote Michael 
ing the recipient with a delight­you did leave at halftime for Stipe of REM, "you are the ev­wlwn a dining hall worker con­unable to retrieve the car until 
ful head wound. another beer during that erything."
fiscates any extra food being 10:00 p.m. 
Better yet, perhaps someone's blurred afternoon, rest assured Brave Warrior, I Salute You! -­removed, they simply throw it The irony in this whole situa­
visiting brother or sister was that the image of your throw 
away. What a horrible waste of tion is that the friend I went to 
struck, receiving a hearty burned deep in my mind as I Bill Rosemann
food in a society that possesses pick up is not a young person, 
"Domer" welcome into the chanted "We are NO!" Grace Hall 
so many hungry people. but a mother of two children 
Notre Dame family. Sadly, your action will most Nov. 4, 1991 
I also fail to understand the who was a former captain of a nnw drink containnr policy. I varsity athletic team here at purchased an official Notre Notre Dame, and a member of Dame recyclable mug last year, the Monogram Club. and now I am unable to use it. My friend, her husband, and I have paid for my cup of coffee, their three friends spent much and I do not feel that whether I money on plane tickets, game drink it in the dining hall. or tickets. hotel rooms, and in the earry it out with me to study bookstore. This was not a good makes much of a difference.. example of Notre Dame's caring 
My primary complaint, how­community to someone who has ever. is the treatment I rnceived everything the administration during the USC football week­wants: status and money to nnd. On Saturday morning I spend. I also do not understand wnnt to the airport to pick up a the purpose in purchasing a friend who had flown in for the parking permit if one will be game. When I returned to unable to use it. eampus I was told that I would I do not intend to complain not be allowed to park in the about the university or insinu­student parking lot, regardless ate the appearance of a bad of my student parking permit. reputation. However, I have 
The university had sold all always been one t follow all the available parking spaces in the rules, both in letter and spirit. student lot for $5.00. I pro­The rules simply do not make eeednd in attempt to explain to sense to me anymore. I feel tho Indiana State Troopor that I someone, somewhere, owes me was a student with a valid $4.00 since the parking permit permit to park in the lot, think­has already been paid for, and a -..._,~~ ing that the officer had misun­certain state trooper also owes dnrslood my first question as an me an apology. attnrnpt to sneak into a closer Jennifer A. Ream parking space. Siegfried Hall 
The officnr informnd me that Nov. 4,1991 I was causing a problem and I 

Dear Editor: 
Hecent letters to the editor (Oet. 18) and a news item yes­terday (Oct. 29) raise quBstions about Notre Dame's eorporate ability to meet its obligations to its students, alumni, and fans. The letters, responding to the football ticket crunch and ad­ministrative officers' conse­quent proposed study of the need to enlarge the present stadium or build a new one, expressed outrage at the prospect of desecrating the present stadium by enlarging it, or, God forbid, tearing it down. 
The news item told of a $425 thousand "glitch" (I love the. word!) in the Arts and Letters College budget, necessitating a hiring freeze, a decrease in classes offered, and a concomitant rise in class size. 
These forbidding prospects aroused my wonder about how a corporation so well administered and so vigorously rich could allow such problems to arise when the solution to both is readily available to anyone with an ounce of imagination. 
I have "a modest proposal" that will double the capacity of the stadium without disturbing one sacred brick, which at the same time will raise sufficient revenue to save Arts and Letters. All we need do is field two football teams. 
That way we could have eleven home games and eleven away games, .doubling our ticket revenues, thus satisfying countless alumni and fans, and instead of depleting revenues by enlarging the stadium or building a new one, increase them sufficiently to throw a few dollars at the Arts and Letters "glitch." The best of all possible worlds! 
Now I know some purists will raise objections. Those who love Notre Dame traditions will no doubt decry my proposal as too innovative, even radical. I answer by reminding them that it is in the best of traditions, Notre Dame's justifying its return to bowl-going on the grounds that the revenue was to be used for minority students -a traditional ideal my proposal continues. 

Some will object that the NCAA has a rule against fielding two teams, but I doubt that it does; and even if it does, we could field the second team in the name of St. Mary's -thus providing the young ladies there with something to cheer about and a stronger stance in the annual ticket lottery. Just think! two cheerleading squads, two bands; the perks are endless! 
Well, what about all those Notre Dame haters out there who will surely cry "foul," as they did so unjustly last year when our corporate fathers signed a lucrative TV contract with NBC? Mere jealousy! Besides, we'd be doing it only for our alumni, fans and stu­dents -not to mention what the additional game will do for the depressed economy of South Bend. 
How can any sensible NO hater argue with the advan­tages of doubling our home game revenue, our visiting team's revenue, our bookstore revenue, and our bowl game revenue -if, as is more than likely, our two teams are in­vited to play one another in a bowl game? Can't you just see it? NO vs. NO for No. l -and No. 2! Wow! The advertisers will go wild. 
I leave it to our athletic directors to work out the details of recruiting a second team, hiring its coaching staff, and scheduling games (preferably the teams will alternate home and away games, one in the afternoon, one at night to enable the students and fans a real orgy of football from noon to midnight, and lest we forget, to double our TV revenue). 
If my modest proposal pro­duces the results I'm sure it will, we can then turn our at­tention to doing what any good business (such as McDonald's) does when it produces a better product much in demand -franchise! I envision a day when Notre Dame will want to franchise its success by establishing teams at colleges that do not now have them. 
We could start with Notre 
Dame at Stonehill and Notre Dame at Portland, followed by other Catholic colleges (in keeping with our Catholic mission) that are no doubt longing for such a fillip: Notre Dame at Marquette, No.tre Dame at Fordham, Notre Dame at Georgetown, etc., etc., etc. The possibilities I'm sure you will agree are limitless. 
Although some few carpers will accuse me of seeking my own advantage in making my modest proposal, I assure them, in the spirit of Jonathan Swift, another lover of the depressed Irish, that I look forward with no great expectation of smaller classes since I near retirement. 
However, should our corporate fathers wish to reward me for my enriching proposal, I would not refuse a return to a parking space on game days in the Aero lot, now reserved for richer clients than I. 
Robert J. Lordi 
English Dept. 
Oct. 30, 1991 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Accent 
page 10 Thursday, November 7, 1991 

By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH Accent Writer 
ore than 2,500 Notre
M 
Dame and Saint Mary's 
students participated in 
Christmas in April last year. Paulita Llopis Pike was one of them. 
Like many of the volunteers who worked to restore low-income housing in the South Bend community, Pike was moved by the experience. She wanted to do more. 
When she approached the ND office of Community Relations, Director James Roemer found nothing unusual about her request to start a Christmas in April program in her hometown. Programs are started in such a way all the time. 
But Pike's hometown is San Salvador, El Salvador. 
"Are you kidding me?" asked a shocked Roemer when he first heard her appeal. "You want me to go to El Salvador? There's fighting going on there!" 
His initial surprize soon subsided though. He and William Sexton, vice president for University relations, decided that maybe it wasn't such a crazy idea after all. 
El Salvador is ranked fifth or sixth on a list of countries receiving a great deal of monetary aid from the United States, according to Roemer. 
At one point, he explained, $200 million to $300 million were given to the country through United States agencies like U.S. AID. These agencies administer the aid and regulate its uses, said Roemer. 
"This (Christmas in April) is completely different," Roemer continued. "It is based on the idea of 'self-help.'" 

There is no guarantee that monetary aid will reach the people who need it, added Pike. "I want the effort to go where it is suppose to go." She said she sees Christmas in April as a way to offer practical, immediate assistance. 
Pike is neither a stranger to community services, nor to the 
about fifty people. 
During the visit, Roemer was primarily concerned with giving the community an idea of how Christmas in April works and ideas for getting it started. The rest, he said, is up to them. 
Roemer explained that he didn't like to pressure any group to adopt Christmas in April; he just gives 
needs of her country. individuals the means to try 
The high school j;hat she attended something new. in El Salvador required each student "We want people to to go along to complete 100 hours of social work with the idea, but we don't want to in order to graduate. She fulfilled force it," agreed Pike. this requirement by working at a So far neither Pike nor Roemer · pubUc school where her eyes were have heard for sure whether or not opened to the extremely poor the plan will be put into action. conditions of this state-run "I am not overconfident that there institution. will be great interest in participation 
"Everything was so run down," she in the program," admitted Roemer. said. "There were no desks, no caring, responsible teachers and no T he fact that conditions in El lighting. The blackboards were Salvador differ so greatly terrible. from conditions in the 
"The idea had always been in my United States makes it mind (to help improve conditions). difficult to persuade people that the but I had never encountered ideas will work. anything like Christmas in April," "They (individuals who might be said Pike. interested in helping) are scared to 
Pike and Roemer pooled their try," said Pike. "They are clueless as resources to attempt to give their to what it (Christmas in April) is ... plan an opportunity to take off. They are used to giving donations, 
After the team contacted key but they are reluctant to volunteer." sources in El Salvador (the mayor, Part of fhe fear stems from embassy official, the El Salvadoran personal safety, according to Pike. ND Alumni Club, and so forth), "People are reluctant to go into Roemer made a trip to the country certain areas because it is not safe," to explain how the program works. she said. 
Initially, he met with the board of They also fear failure, for in El directors of the Alumni Club. From Salvador the housing problem is so there he approached the community severe that attempting to "fix up" by means of a lecture attended by houses is impractical, she continued. 

'It would be nice to see them pick t~emselves up by their bootstraps.' -James Roemer Director of Community Relations 
"There is a difference in housing (between the U.S. and El Salvador). In the Un:.ted States, housing may be run down, but in the Third World many houses are made of cardboard or tin," she explained. 
A volunteer can't just paint a wall or two like students do here, accordin!~ to Roemer. "There isn't much you could do to really fix housing," he said. 
"We need to adapt planning to realities," Pike added. 
She suggested that the program focus on schools, orphanages and other public buildings. 
"The schools should be primary concerns," she said. "Who wants to learn in those conditions? They need an electrical system. They need a roof that doesn't leak." 
Lack of leadership is the key issue obstructing the establishment of the program right now, Pike and Roemer agreed. 
While the community might be interested, "I didn't see anyone step forward'' assume control, said Roemer. 
"I had hoped somebody would pick up the ball," added Pike. "There is a possibility we'll do this, but it is up in the air." 
The establishment of Christmas in April would mean new avenues of social reform for San Salvador. 
Rather than continued heavy reliance on other countries for material assistance, the citizens would have an opportunity to help themselves. 
While obstacles have stalled immediate adaptation of the program. Roemer has remained "cautiously optimistic." 
"It would be nice to see them pick themselves up by their bootstraps," he said. 
..--------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---­Thursday, November 7, 1991 The Observer page 11 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classllieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  Riders needed to Buffalo area leave: 27NOV return: 1DEC Pleaee call Sherry x4717  Need 4 tix for Tenn. 11/9 Big $ pd. Call 283-1897 Jim or collect 908 449-0589.  i need 2 TENN stud tix. Dave (slut) x1791  Help Cure The Peutis Running Rampant in My Family I I I Sell Us Four Tennessee GA's  2 TENN GAS FOR SALE 288-7341  
TYPING AVAILABLE  i need 1 TENNGA. Ruben x1803  X3414  HELP!!I I need 2 TENN TIXIII  
287·4082  EARN $2000 + FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS I North America's #1 Student Tour  Need 2 student or GA's for Tenn. Joe 277-9924  Need GA or student ticket for TENN  DESPERATELY NEED TENN TIXS  (GA or married student) Please call Lynne X2614  
Buy and Sell used books Pandora 's Books-newbooks and the NY nmes tooll corner of NO ave and Howard 233-2342/10-5:30 everyday Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949  Operator seeking motivated students, organizations, fraternities and sororities as campus representatives promoting Cancun, Bahamas, Daytona and Panama City/ Calli· (BOO) 724-1555/  SELLING TENNESSEE STUDENT TICKETS. LUIS: 273-1528 NEED Tenn. nx x4040  game. Call Amy 283-1347. DESPERATE FOR 2 TENN. GA'S. WILL PAY THRU NOSE. CALL JEFF 234-6963. NEED TENN STUD TIX X3543  CALL MARIA OR CRISTIN X3433 NEED TENN STUD AND GA TIX JOE X1835 X1836 Need Tenn GA's or Stud's. Call  I NEED Tenn. GA or STUDENT For NO Alum. call Liz 271·8311 HELP/ Wealthy Alum flying in from L.A. to see his beloved Irish one last time. Please don't let him down I  
BUFFALO CLUB XMAS BUSIIII The bus will leave December 21st and come back January 13th(the day before registration) Signups wilt be in Lafortune, by the information desk, on Thurs. Nov. 7th from 9pm­11 pm. Cost Is $75 dollars. Rochester people welcome. Any ?'s, Mal1x3573  I need a ride to Ph/lly-Wi/m-S.N.J. area for Turkey Day break! Will help drive, share expenses. Amy x4290 FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219·291-7153  NEED Tenn. nx x4040 GA or Stud. '60 ALUM NEEDS 20R4 TENN GA'S 2989 OR 272-3229 $$ HELPI$1 Need 5 Tennessee GA's Joe 289-6494.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 3 GA'S or Student tix Call Mike@ 273-2103 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Chris-2779442 $$$Help make Aunt Rita and Uncle Len very happy! Need Tenn fix-stud or GA!-x1814 Need 2 Tenn GAs or stud tixl Please Help! Susan x4276  Sell him your Tenn. G.A. or Stud ticket. Call Mike P. at X2019 Please! ''''$$$$$$$$$$$$$$''····· ..HELP! I NEED ONE TENNGA.. 'FOR DAD DRIVING 19 HOURS.. 'FROM BOSTON I WILL PAY TOP' 'DOLLAR PLEASE CALL PATTY•••••$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ X2126..  
LE CERCLE FRANCAIS Meeting for all interested in the French club Thurs 7th, 120 O'Shag, 7:30 SOlS LA OU SOlS CARREl LOST/FOUND  2 bdrm house. $150 & $200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 Walk to campus. 1310 South Bend Ave. NICE FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6 PEOPLE 2773097  I NEED TENN. STUD'S OR GA'S CALL CHRIS #1245 THANX WANTED: TENN. TIX. STUD. & GA'S PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 256·7034 NEED ONE TENN GA TICKET; CALL DAVE 283-1545  TENNESSEE STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE. If interested, please call 284-3814. Leave ygur name, number and the price you are willing to pay. Desperately needed: 2 Tennessee GAs Call Mike x3546  2 Tenn ST nx for sale 271-0702 I NEED SIX TENNESEE GA'S AND TWO STUDENT TIX FOR FAMILY CALL DREW @ 2789 Knoxville Alum wants 1 0 tickets. willing to pay BIG BUCKS$$. Call x3278  Need Tenn. G.A.'s Call277-6321. Help! Need TENN Studs or GAs Call Jim X1883 1 TENN std tckt for sale. Best offer! Kelly X4084  
LOST: light grey Ariz. St. sweatshirt sometime before Break ...maybe near Badin. If found, call Jon # 1 854  BEDROOM FOR RENT IN A HOME $200/MO. USE OF ALL UTILITIES, LAUNDRY, ETC. CALL PAUL ROY 232-2794.  NEED 2 PENN ST TIX; DAVE 283­1545  PLEASE FOR FAMILY 2 TENN G.A.s Jenny #3822  I need 2 GA's for Tenn. $$$ call Malt at 277-4673  1 TENN STD FOR SALE 232-8230  
I NEED 4 TN GA'S  
Call Ed  X 1790  For Sale: Tenn. Sr Sxn.  
LOST: GOLD CHAIN WITH CROSS ON SATURDAY AT GAME. CALL 284-5093.  2 Bed/2 Bath Condo, 1518 N. Oakhill. 5 min walk from campus. January avail. References/Deposit 273 -1329.  I need 1 stud or GA ticket for Tennessee. Call Henry at 272-9326. If not home, leave a message.  I NEED USC,TENN,PITT,& NAVY GA TIXS.272-6306  Big, Big $$$$for TENN Tickets : Student and GA's call x3302  Call by Thurs night. Ed 287-6379. NEED 1 TENN GAl  
TO THE PERSON WHO BORROWED THE TAN OVER· COAT HALLOWEEN NIGHT ON THE RIDE TO LAFAYETTE SQ., COULD YOU PLEASE CALL MARK OR KEVIN 289-6494 LOST: A GOLD BRACELET OF  A quaint studio in lovely old mansion 1/2 mile from N.D. $225/ mo. plus deposit call 2879624 FOR SALE  Ohhhhhhhhhhhh/ Please help me. I need 2 GA's for Tennessee more than life itself. I'm sure I can help you out in return. For instance, I give great sax. If that isn't music to your ears, we'll work something else out. Just call Matt at x2058.  Need 2 GA's for Navy and Tennessee. Call nm at x1417. I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC and Tennessee. Chris 239-5713  I NEED 2 OR MORE TENN GA'S OR STUDENT TICKETS CALL BRENT X1972 NEED 1 TENN. STUDENT OR GA Call Beth x1346  CALL MATT x2347 .......LATE NOTICE ....... Desparately need any Tennessee stud tix you can sell to me ... Big $$$$$ Call Will at 277-9468. •......LATE NOTICE .......  
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE-AROUND THE JACC OR WASHINGTON  '76 VOLVO 245 WAGON. 3 SEAT, 7 PASS. NO RUST OR DENTS. NEW  NEED 4 TENN Tix-STUD or GA  NEED PENN STATE TIX JOE X2341  I need, I want, and I covet Tennessee GA's  Need one Tenn Stud. X1926  
HALL. PLEASE CALL 1456 lost: Fuji camera on Halloween in parking lot of either Club 23 or the Commons. If found please call Sheila #2547. WANTED ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. MALE or FEMALE. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1·206-545-4155 ext. 118. FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS Promote & Organize our Spring Break tours. All materials furnished.  BRAKES, TIRES EXHAUST. 4 SPEED WITH OVERDRIVE. $1800 OR B/0. 684-6129. BM compatible computer, two floppy drives, Epson printer, b/w monitor-$350 or best offer call X3352 TENN. STUD. TIK FOR SALE $75 OR BEST OFFER CALL SEAN AT #1656 TICKETS NEED TWO TENN. TIX Call Sean @4274 Need two Tenn. GA's Dave T. x-1750  Call Bill at -4186 Need Student or GA's for Tennessee. Call Sean -:132-3296 Need Tenn. Stud. & GA's. Call #3718. FOR SALE: 3 TENN. GA'S. CALL JOHN 2473. ROUND TfUP TIXS TO HAWAII FOR GAME CALL LORI:277·4293 NEED TENNGA'S CALL CATHY 232-5399 5 TENN. TIX FOR SALE. RICK 289-4622  Can you dig this II am terribly interested in buying a Student ticket for Tennessee. Price is no object, unless of course you want more money than I am willing to pay you. Give Dave Bose a ring at 283-2015. If Dave is busy his personal staff will be happy to help you. Irish V-ball ruleslllllllllll Need Tenn. st. or alum tix$$ please call Dan x1740 Good afternoon, my friends. I have a small request which I hope can be mutually beneficial to all involved. I desperately need 4 GAs for Tennessee. If you have any at all please call Gina @ 2982. If I am unavailable, please leave a message so t.can get back to you. Need 2 UT-Notre Dame GA tickets  Please, Please, Please, Please call Andy @ 233-9588 I need 3 TENN GA's II call X4082 SEIZED CARS, lrucks, boats, 4-wheelers, motorhomes, by FBI, IRS DEA. Available your area now. Call (805) G82·7555 Ext C·5921 POSTAL JOBS AVAILABLE! Many positions. Great benefits. Call (805) 682·7555 Ext P.3644  FOR SALE: 1 TENN. GA FIELD SECTION BEST OFFER MATT X2318 I NEED 4 PENN ST TIX Ill call Cathy X4963 Tenn Student Ticket: $40. Call2803 I NEED SEX, SEX, MONEY, SEX, FAME, SEX, BUT MOST OF ALL TENN. TICKETSIII JERRY X2090 see CLASS/paqe 12  
Good Pay & Fun. Call Campus Marketing. 1·800-423-5264. Fraternities, sororities, campus orgamzations, highly motivated individuals-Travel FREE plus earn up to $3000+ selling SPRING BREAK trips to Cancun 'South Padre Island 'Bahamas/Cruise• Acapulco 1·800-258·9191. Gymnastic Instructor to teach young children. Must enjoy working with children. Must a/so have your own transportation. Will train, flexible hours. Send resume to: BRYSON STAPLES 403 E. TERRACE DRIVE JEFFERSONVILLE, IN 47130 Earn $2500 & Free Trips Selling Spring Break Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips & Prices! Spring Break Travel 1·800-638-6786. $350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS I PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME GAMES273-1802 I NEED 2 TENN GA'S OR STUD. CALL MATT@ 1802 DESPARATELY NEED 4 TENN GA'S. IF YOU HAVE ANY CALL PAT X1767111 Roses are red Violets are blue I'm schizophrenic And so am I. So I need an extra Tenn. GA. Todd X2371 I need Tenn GA's or stud Greg 289-8917 H$LPI ON$ T$NN TICK$T N$$D$DI CALL COLL$$N X4244  I NEED 1 TENN. TICKET­STUDENT OR GA-$$$ CALL KATHLEEN 288-9421 ''HELP'' NEED TENN TIX BAD !I CALL BOB @ 289·6541 CHEAP! CHEAP! CHEAP! 2 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS TO HAWAII OVER THANKSGIVING CALL X3457 Selling 1 student ticket for Tenn. game. Call 2855 Have one TENN stud tix for sale-Best Offer Mary xt759 I HAVE 2 GA, TENN CALL 288-0730 EVENINGS Two Tennessee GA's are all I need for happiness and a good karma. Call x1471. 2 Tenn. marr. stu. tix for sale 277-5348  Nov. 9. Call (704) 541-8845. Need Tenn GAs Chris X2125 I am willing to pay some serious bucks for Tennessee GA's. Please call Andy DeBartolo @ 233-9588. I NEED 2 TENN GA&-LAURA 277-9158 NEED 1 GA TICKET FOR TENNESSEE CALL X283-2831 $ I WILL MAKE A TRADE $ I WILL TRADE LOTS OF MONEY FOR 2 TENN GA'S X1737 NEED TWO TENN. GA'S CALL 287-3587 PLEASE help! Need Tenn. GA or Stud. tixl Call Sarah x4220 One TENESSEE ticket needed Please call Michelle at 2672  •  FREE TRAVEL· Air couriers and Cruisesllips. Sludents also needed Christmas, Spring and Summer for Amusement Park employment Call (805) REPOSSESSED &IRS FFORECLOSED HOMES available at below market value! Fantastic savings! u repair. Also S&Lbailout properties. Call (805) G82·7555 Ext H·G237 RAISfNG F~r )'Ol•: .'....ttl'•nllY. toromy, .'1'~>-71 w ~fh(fr C.tmpfJS t:'''lifJIZ.~f• ··,, 4UOUITI!i" .1 IHV~JTMl.Yf 1/J .'11'. (1:"~·'*'"' ·\ ~·\ ..... :1"'~·.·,.."(·.;!,:~ . ._..:.._:··:.  RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! DAYTONA BEACH -lff14 S 1nr11 NIGHTS SOUTH PADIE ISI.AIID -'128 S /INO 1 NIGHTS .. STEAifBOAT -~I22 2, S ANO 7 NIGHTS PANAMA CITY BEACH ...,lf2J 7 NIGHTS FORT LAUDERDALE ...,lfJ6 7 NIGHTS HILTON HEAD ISLAND -lffJ S ANO 7 NIGHTS MUSTANG ISLAND I ...,lf28 PORT ARANSAS • S ANO 1 NIGHTS lith annual CelebrationI TOLL FREE INFORMATION I RESERVATIONS 1·800·!21·5911 ~  -..  



----------~ -­
Thursday, November 7, 1991 page 12 

SCOREBOARD 
NBA STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
American League
AUmUc Dlvlalon 

MILWAUKEE BREWERs-Named Brian Small 
w l Pa <:a l10 Streak Home Away Coni 
director of baseball administration. 
Orlando 3 0 1.000 3-0 Won 3 2-0 1-0 3-0 

NEW YORK YANKEEs-Named Clete Boyer third 
Boston 2 2 .500 1112 2-2 lost 1 1-1 1-1 2-2 

base coach; Ed Napoleon first base coach; Tony
Philadelphia 2 2 .500 1 112 2-2 Won 2 1-1 1-1 2-2 

Cioniger bullpen coach; and Monk Meyer bench 
Washington 2 2 .500 1112 2-2 Lost 2 1-1 1·1 2·2

, 
coach.
Miami 1 .500 1112 1-1 lost 1 1-1 0·0 1·1 

TORONTO BLUE JAYs-Named larry Hisle
New Jersey 1 1 .500 1112 1-1 lost 1 0·0 1·1 1-1 

hitting Instructor and Bob Bailor first base coach. 
New York 1 2 .333 2 1-2 Won 1 1-0 0·2 1-2 
BASKETBALL
Central Dlvlalon 
National Baakatball Aaaoclatlon
Detroh 2 1 .667 2·1 Won 2 1-1 1·0 2·1 

NBA-Announced that Los Angeles lakers owner
ndlana 2 1 .667 2·1 Won 2 1-1 1·0 0-1 

Dr. Jerry Buss has been elected chairman of the
Chicago 2 2 .500 112 2·2 Won 1 1-1 1-1 2·1 

PLAYER GAMES SHOTS GOALS ASSISTS POINTS
league's board of governors.
Milwaukee 2 2 .500 112 2·2 Lost 2 1·1 1·1 2-1 

BOSTON CEL TICS-Signed Rickey Green, 
Porter 20 fj4 16 4 36
Atlanta 1 2 .333 1 1·2 Lost 1 1-1 0·1 0·2 

~'basttlfA~~ remainder of the 1991·92 season.
Cleveland 1 2 .333 1 1-2 Won 1 0-0 1·2 0-0 

Lester 20 i'2 9 10 28
Charlotte 1 3 .250 1 112 1·3 Won 1 1·1 0-2 1-3 National Football League WESTERN CONFERENCE CINCINNATI BENGAL5-Cialmed Daniel 
Hartwig 20 ~!8 9 9 27 
Midweat Dlvlalon Stubbs, defensive lineman. off waivers. Released 
Zilvitis 20 ~!8 7 6 20
w l Pa <:a l10 Streak Home Away Coni Rod Saddler, defensive lineman. San Antonio 3 1 .750 3-1 Won 1 2-0 1·1 3·1 CLEVELAND BROWNS--Waived Jock Jones, 
Thompson 20 ~11 4 9 17 
Denver 2 1 .667 112 2·1 Won 2 2-1 0-0 2·1 linebacker. Added Anthony Florence, cornerback, 
Mego 18 5 2 3 7
Houston 2 1 .667 112 2-1 Won 1 2-0 0-1 2·1 to the practice squad. Utah 1 2 .333 1112 1-2 lost 2 0-0 1·2 1·0 NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTs-Placed Jason 
Giolitto 18 N 1 4 6
Dallas 1 3 .250 2 1-3 Won 1 0-2 1-1 1·2 Staurovsky, placekicker, on Injured reserve. Minnesota 0 2 .000 2 0-2 lost 2 0-2 0-0 0·2 Signed Charlie Baumann, placekicker. Moved 
Jarc 20 ~:8 1 3 5 
Pacific Dlviaion Danny Villa. guard, from Injured reserve to the 
Matesic 20 :5 1 3 5
Golden State 4 0 1.000 -4-0 Won 4 1-0 3-0 2-0 practice squad. LA Clippers 2 1 .667 1 112 2·1 Won 2 1-0 1-1 1-1 NEW ORLEANS SAINTs-Placed Craig 
Chabot 14 11 1 2 4 
Phoenix 2 1 .667 1 112 2·1 Lost 1 0-1 2·0 2·0 Heyward, running back, on Injured reserve. Signed 
Strawbridge 14 a 2 0 4 
_.... LA Laken1 1 2 .333 2112 1-2 lost 1 0-1 1·1 1-2 Cedrick Smhh, fullback. Sacramento 1 2 .333 2112 1·2 Lost 2 1-0 0·2 1-2 NEW YORK JETS--Waived Reggie Moore, wide 
Lewis 3 :3 1 0 2 
Seattle 1 2 .333 2112 1·2 Won 1 1·2 0-0 1-2 receiver, from the practice roster. Moved Mark 
Kurek 19 :3 0 1 1
Portland 1 3 .250 3 1-3 Lost 3 1-1 0-2 0-3 Boyer, tight end, from injured reserve to the Wedneaday'a Gamea 
practice squad. 

Kelly 4 () 0 1 1
Thuraday·a \Oamealate Games Not lnduded 

PHOENIX CARDINAL5-Cialmed Chris 
Orlando at New York, 7:30 p.m. 

Kwiatkowski 20 () 0 0 0
Chicago 132, Boston 1 13 

Chandler, quarterback, off waivers I rom Tampa Phllade_,hia 107, New Jersey 105 
Miami at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. 
Bav. Waived CraiQ Kupp, Quarterback. 

Lennon 7 ·j 0 0 0
Cleveland at Houston, 8:30 p.m. 
Orlando 105, Washington 88 HOCKEYMinnesota at Denver, 9 p.m. 
Charlotte 114, Atlanta 104 

Sobajian 9 () 0 0 0
National Hockey League
Seattle at Lhah, 9:30p.m.
Dallas 97, Minnesota 94 

NEW YORK RANGERS--Recalled Jeff Golden State 120, Milwaukee 114 
Gorski 2 0 0 0
Bloemberg, defenseman, from Binghamton of the San Antonio 119, Portland 93 
American Hockey league. 

Serwatka 2 ..'I 0 0 0 
SAN JOSE SHARKS-Recalled Artur lrbe, NHL SCHEDULE goahender, from Kansas City of the International Hockey League. Assigned Jayson More, 
GOALKEEPER GAMES GAA SAVES SHUTOUTS RECORD 
Tueaday'a Gamea Thurediiy'e Gamea defenseman. to Kansas Chy. Minnesota 3, Detroit 2 Calgary at Boston, 7:35 p.m TENNIS 
Lodyga 18 0.5~1 76 11 12-2-3 
Boston 5, Pittsburgh 5, tie St. Louis at Detroit, 7:35p.m. UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION­
Gold 4 1.5fl 5 0 3-0-0 
Philadelphia 4, St. Louis 3 Buffalo at Phllade_,hla. 7:35 p.m Named Andre Agassl, Ken Flach, Pete Sarnpras 
Winnipeg 2, Vancouver 2, tie Quebec at Chlcego, 8:35p.m. and Robert Seguso to the Davis Cup team lor the Wedneaday'a Game• Vancouver at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. finals against France. The Observer/Brendan Regan Late Game Not Included Frldey'a Gamea COLLEGE 
Calgary 3, Hartford 2 Philadelphia at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m ALABAMA-suspended Danny Woodson, Montreal4, N.Y. Rangers 1 Montreal at New Je.Sey, 7:35 p.m. quarterback, lndelintely for violating team rules. Toronto 4, Minnesota 3 Toronto at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. ST. FRANCIS, Pa.-Announced Chris McCarthy, 
N.Y. islanders at Edmonton, (n) DetroH at W!lShinJI!Qn, ?;;!5 p.m. center, has quh the basketbail team 

---TOM WESTRICK--Hey Wendy, HOW GREAT is it that SUBWAY To that certain Angel on 4th-floor blah blah blah blah blah blah 
---TOM WESTRICK--it's your 19th BIRTHDAY?! Have a 20% OFF ALL PARTY SUBS KNOTI, call me sometime. --TOM WESTRICK--You great one! LY(aaf)shnah with college I.D.• for the weenie in INSBRUCK ND/TENN game at the PALACE LAUNDRY 
Class 
continued from page 11 

Angie, Eric, Dave, and BIG J. Rock following locations: SEXY girl needs ride to ROCH wish you well in that land of easy YoND, 23 & IRONWOOD 277-7744 NY area for TURKEY 4 sale 2 tenn.std.tx. x1387 "A". Come out and listen to DJ Martin N. 31 277-1024 Call KATH x2905 tonight at Club 23 May your skiing ever be in those Pulido's debut performance at INDIAN RIDGE 271-1772 special guest: wonderful mounds of Austrian Theodore's Saturday night. It's DOWN TOWN 289-1288 CRUST
PERSONAL 

mountains. guaranteed to be one wild ride! Attn: BALLROOM DANCERS blah blah blah blah blah blah --TOM 
I am the Lizard King and I can do 

WESTRICK TOM HEY MER, SHEA AND CER-Don't forget about class TONIGHT 
anything. 

WESTRICK TOM We know who's the boss don't we at Stepan Center from 8:00-9:30. DEAR HONEYBEAR: WESTRICK--girls? Love, AI The METHA-TONES live I If you brave the cold, I Prove your love to me right now by NO's NY alternative band GUARANTEE that we'll get your standing and yelling:
Happy birthday Joe Roberts. 

DINNER FOR 2 AT CHI CHI'S! Look N Glass in Niles feet moving and your blood "My boyfriend is HUNG!" Thursday-Sunday pumping! So come on, what else I love you and I know you'll do great You are eligible to win this hey nit 18 & over admitted are you going to do? STUDY??? during your hell week. 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 

wonderful prize by volunteering at Call for directions GOOD LUCK!!! -Your SWEET the SMC Student Phonathon, November 4-14, 1991. Call Jean at 
I am your third cousin removed 

4582 to sign up or for additional Is anyone going to the Detroit Rush 00 THE COPY SHOP O•> abc 
Fester 

details! Free long distance phone concert Nov. 13 or 14? I need a Ka1hleen Foley is a really neat LaFortune Student Center 123 
and I can do your great grandma. 

calls! Free food! Free Fun! ride. x4009 person. 
stronger than burt 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
The snow war will go on, FattyOOO!!!l 
PLAY IT AGAIN! 
PLAY IT AGAIN! Dancing and singing musical revue w/ the HERITAGE DANCE COMPANY at Mishawaka High School auditorium. Saturday 
November 9, 7:30pm. Only $3.00 for students. 
On Thursday, Nov. 7, 1991 
JOE THEBY TURNS 211!1! 
if you see him, wish him a good one 
and make sure to assist him in his 
pain. make it a night he can't 

-
remember. 
Call off the attack! Call off the attack! 
HELP!!! I'M IN NEED OF TENN GA TICS! Please call Alissa at 284-5319. 
IRELAND PROGRAM STUDENTS NEED MAIL: c/o MOLLY, AIMEE, EILEEN, LISA, JENI GERALDINE LODGE OLD GREENFIELD MAYNOOTH, CO. KILDARE IRELAND 

Day Editor needed at SMC Observer Office Must be available Mon., Wed., and Fri. afternoons Contact Jennifer Habrych 
284-4426 
Dick's Marathon 

102 South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN • 234-0707 • 289-7622 This certificate good for 
NE {1) FREE TOW TO OUR STATION FOR REPAIR. 
FREE (Value $45.00) FREE 
Valid 10 mile radius from our station 
Oil lube filter $12.95 + tax and shop fee 
Cash value .001 mills One Certificate Per Visit 
Copies as low as 3¢ in volume! you and me 
Just Jl .Littfe . . . 
T,lfit~ Magic •I 
hristmas Open House 
~ Arts & Crafts Show 8th & 9th 
* Christmas Shopping* * Gifts, Decorations and 

More!!! Theodore's in LaFortune 
to the right of the Dome Fri. 9 am -5 ·pm Sat. 9 am -noon 
Thursday, November 7, 1991 
NO volleyball captures MCC title 

Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame vollnyball team laid sole claim to the Midwestern Collngiate Confernnce regular season title with a 15-12, 15-8, 12-15, 15­H win over Loyola. 
Fn1shman Christy Peters and junior Jessica Fiebelkorn com­birwd for :H of Notre Dame's 70 kills and 43 of the 92 Irish digs. 
Cynthia May, a junior blocker, added a career-high 11 kills off a .455 hitting percentage. May, with 13 digs, and Turner, with 14 digs, con­tributed to the defensive effort. May also had a career-high 10 blocks as the team totaled 32 block assists on the night. 
The Irish, with a perfect 5-0 record in the conference, im­prove to 17-7 overall. Loyola's record goes to 21-10 with a 3­2 mark in the MCC. Notre Dame will get a first-round bye in the MCC tournament and meet the winner of the number-four/number-five matchup Friday, Nov. 15 at 6 
p.m. at Butler University. 

SPORlS BRIEFS 
•Sportsbrlefs 
are accepted in writing, Sunday through Thursday until 5:00 p.m. ,at The Observer on the 3rd floor of LaFortune, for next day printing. Please write your brief, the days it is to be run, and your name and number. 

•Attention 
hockey players and ice skaters: The Notre Dame ice rink is available for students and dorms to rent. You can rent thn ice for practices, dorm events, and even games. Cost li1r ND/SMC faculty and staff is just $50 per hour. Call the icn rink at 239-5227 for more information. 

•Student 
basketball split ticket packages are still available at the J.A.C.C. ticket office. Catch seven games for only $30. For more information, call 239-7356. 

•ND/SMC 
Sailing members: Please remember to come at your assigned time to work at the concession stand in front of Crowl~1y. If you have not signed up to work, please call Moira at 2H4-5344. We nend your help. Also, it is mandatory for all rnernbnrs to come help put the boats away on Sunday. Meet at thn boathouse at 1:00. We will have lunch for everyone who helps. 



Why settle for apa!tf

when you can have abalL 
The 6" Meatball Sub Only 
~1.69 

I $1.00 OFF I I 
I $1.00 off any regular footlong I PARTY SUB SPECIAL I sandwich. Limit five footlong
I I SAVE 20% I
sandwiches per order.

I I SIX FOOT SUB $48.00 I
1Not valid with any other discount • Offer good at 1

I 
all participating locations • Expires 2128/921 

I 
I I I I I 
I : ~jiJ ;li,ll;)'i :
I 
~----------------------~ 

The Observer page 13 
Blue Devils stand atop first-ever National Collegiate Sportswriters' basketball poll 
Observer Staff Report 
This week marks the debut of the National Collegiate Sportswriters basketball poll, the brainchild of Observer Associate Sports Editor Rene Ferran, which will tabulate the votes of 25 sportswriters from colleges and universities na­tionwide. 
The preseason poll does not differ very much from the other national polls as Duke, Indiana, Arkansas, Arizona and Kentucky make up the top five. The Blue Devils had the most first-place votes with fifteen, foilwed by the Hoosiers with 7, Razorbacks with 2 and Rick Pitino's Wildcats with one. 
The top ten is rounded out by Ohio State, North Carolina, LSU, UCLA and Seton Hall, the highest ranked Big East team in this week's poll. 
Some tradtional national powerhouses were excluded from the preseason poll. As Syracuse, UNLV and Virginia failed to crack the top 25. 
The poll also contained some surprises in the others receiv­ing votes category. Despite a tough schedule, Notre Dame received 22 votes, defending NIT champion Stanford got 15 votes, Ivy League power Princeton was the recipient of two votes, and the Popeye Jones-led Murray State Racers were given a vote. 
Butler 
continued from page 16 
open Susie Zilvitis with a cross, and it appeared Zilvitis would have an easy goal. However, Murphy came out of nowhere to make the save. With 30 seconds left in the game, a Tiffany Thompson shot beat Murphy, but hit the crossbar. 
"The cold weather neutralized our ability," Petrucelli commented, "We had a lot of good chances that I think w~ would have finished on a warmer day." 
After struggling the past few opponents to only 7. 9 shots and 

0. 7 goals per game. 
"Going into the game, I was a little concerned about us in the back," Petrucelli said, "However, we were able to settle in and play well. We couldn't have won without them." 
Overall, Petrucelli was happy with what the team accomplished this season; however, he is already looking forward to next year. 
URBAN P
r-----~R~-&~~~~~-S~~~-R~-~R-~~~1-~0~-N~.-----~~~ 
0-E-A-O·L-1-N·E­N-0-D-E-M-8-&R-8­
R-T-N-0-:----C ENTER F 0 R S 0 C I Ill CONCERNS -CAMPUS MINISTRY: BADIN li' HESBURGII LIBRARY 
A-T-S-M-G: -JUSTICE EDUCATION -CAMPUS MINISTRY -sURU OFFICE-IN HAGGAR 
FOR MORE INFORMRTION CRLL: SUE CUNNJNGIIRM Z39-529J 
z 
G) 
m 


NOTES ... Yesterday was the last game for senior tri-captains Marianne Giolitto, Molly Lennon, and Susie Zilvitis. 
Zilvitis finished her career as Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer with 43 goals and 26 as­sists. 
Sophomore Stephanie Porter finished the year as the MCC's leading scorer with 16 goals and four assists. Her 16 goals set the Notre Dame record for goals in a season. 
Junior goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga broke her own record with her MCC-leading 0.53 goals-against average. 
The team's .825 winning per­centage tied the mark of last year's team. · 
However, this year's team played a mueh harder schedule, which included three top 20 teams: Massachusetts, 

•Budget 
airfares anywhere. 

•International 
studentairfares. 


•Railpasses 
issued here. 

•lntemat'lldentity 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•
Travel gear and guidebooks. 

•Expert 
travel advice. 



Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St, 2nd Aoor Chicago, 1160610 

311·951·0585 
call For A Free 1991 Student Travel caa.logJ 
. 

•t:;_."! . : • ·~ -~':?-1" ~ I I 
page 14 The Observer Thursday, November 7, 1991 
happened yesterday when she came into the game in the sec­
Fresh Birmingham leads t,y example
ond half and scored the game­
continued from page 16 
scored a lot of goals, and Jill [Matesic] did a tremendous job in the back." 
Petrucelli is correct. The freshmen combined for 16 goals and 24 assists, and Matesic has improved the already strong Irish defense. 
Matesic, a converted mid­

~ 
fielder, hails from Wexford, Pa.I and surprised Petrucelli with · her ability to consistently play solid defense. She fit in well to the Irish's defensive unit which has surrendered only ten goals
I 
I. 
and posted eleven shutouts on the year. 
Thompson, Hartwig and Mego have bolstered the Notre Dame attack. Thompson and Hartwig started all 20 games, and Mego played in all but two games, starting five of them. 
Thompson, who played on the same Texas club team as Mego, Gold, and sophomore Stephanie Porter, scored four goals and nine assists in 1991. However her biggest contribution to the team was her effectiveness on penalty and corner kicks. Her penalty kick was the game-win­ner in a 2-1 win over Wright State. 
"To be honest, that was one of the reasons I recruited Tiffany. We always struggled with serving balls, and that is one of her strengths," Petrucelli commented. "She can do a lot of the things that we had trou­ble doing in the past." 
Petrucelli discovered Hartwig, who was not heavily recruited out of high school, while scout­ing the goalkeeper on her Ridgewood (N.J.) High School team. However Hartwig was the player he was impressed with. He expected her to contribute to Irish attack, but was surprised the amount of scoring she accounted for. Hartwig finished as the team's third­leading scorer with nine goals and nine assists. 
"Jodi helped our attack a lot," Irish forward Stephanie Porter said. "She provided speed at the outside, and has enough control to beat people and get the ball across and into the box. You can tell how effective she has been by the number of assists she has had." 
Mego, the speedy midfielder from Spring, Tex., provides "instant offense" for the Irish attack when she comes off the bench. This is exactly what 
MCC 
continued from page 16 
Hofmann and junior Mario Tricoci have solidified a defense that has allowed opposing teams .only 15 goals in 17 games. Freshman goalie Bert Bader has also been outstanding this season, chalking up 65 saves and nine shutouts on the way to a 0.84 goals against average. 
Those numbers are going to have to continue to improve this weekend as the Irish look for their MCC crown since 1988 
and an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. 
More important than statistics, however, is a return to basic fundamental soccer. 
"At this point in the season, you don't work much on the fundamentals," second year coach Mike Berticelli explained .. "We have to improve our fundamentals and make sure we go into the tournament doing the basic things well." 
The tournament's second­round is scheduled for tomorrow at 6 p.m., with the finals slated for Sunday at 1 p.m. 

winning goal in the 1-0 win over Butler which gave the Irish the MCC championship. On the season, she chipped in two goals and three assists in 18 games. 
"Robin has had a very good season. Though she is limited by her size (5' 2"), she makes up[ for it with hard work and her quickness," Petrucelli said. "She has had an impact when­ever she has been on the field. We bring her in when we are struggling to get forward, and her quickness gives us a boost." 
Gold, the third Texan of the group, has seen playing time in four games, starting two of them. Primarily, she has served as a backup to Irish starting goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga. 
"Kim is the future of our goalkeeping. It has taken her some time to adjust, but I'm happy with what she has done," Petrucelli commented. "The only reason she has not played too much is because Michelle has played so well." 
Not only the freshmen, but the whole team has matured throughout the the season. Though it did not end with the NCAA bid the team had hoped for, it was a successful 1991 campaign. A 15-2-3 record, national ranking and the MCC championship are accomplish­ments to be proud of. 
Next season the Irish will benefit from another group of freshmen, and they are only losing two seniors to gradua­tion. The future looks bright, not only for this year's talented group of freshmen, but for the entire Notre Dame women's soccer team. 
Senior swimmer is standing tall as Irish sprinting star 

By JIM VOGL 
Sports Writer . 
A young ·Matt Biondi? 

Maybe not, but the size and ability of the Notre Dame men's swim team's Jim Birmingham does present a comparison. 
At six-foot-six, 195, Birmingham is the largest Irish swimmer. He is also among the most successful. 
Competing in the 50-and 100-yard sprint freestyle (like Biondi), the senior co-captain holds the school records for both events. 
Birmingham admitted his size is favorable. 
"For shorter events, my size is very important. Any advan­tage you have can make a dif­ference. I'd say I'm about the same size (as Biondi)," said Birmingham, who stressed that that is where the similarity re­alistically ends. 
"I've succeeded on the college level, but there's not much of a comparison," said Birmingham. "He's a phenomenal swimmer, a world record holder." 
In a team sport which indi­vidual performance is judged objectively, there is consider­able pressure. 
"Pressure can come from stress in school, it could be because of an exhausting week in training," Birmingham said. "Just like in track or football, you've got to put in your work during practice and trust that the performance will be there." 
Birmingham faces the responsibility of being co­captain, something he takes rather seriously. "I have a team goal of sending a swimmer to the NCAAs," he said. "Several 
~ ~*~~~~ 
Authentic Tiri§h Timport§ 
coming to the 
Lafortune Student Center Nov 8-9 10 am-8 pm 
jewelry, Sweaters, Music, Sweatshirts • T's and 
®Items 
Or call us from home-We ship U.P.S. 

GREATER COLUMBUS 
CONVENllON CENTIR 
-400 NORTII HIGH STREET COLUMBUS, OHIO 43215 
(614) 461-Q346 FAX (614) 224-3054 


Interested in getting involved in 
Junior Parents• Weekend? 
We need a lot of enthusiastic 
individuals to join the 
Sophomore Committee. 
Please come to our informational 
meeting on Wed., Nov. 13th at 8 pm 
the Sorin Room in LaFortune 
Can't make it? Call Bernadette at X3885 
Jim Birmingham 
people have a legitimate shot: 
Sending a swimmer to the NCAA championships would he a first for the Notre Dame Men's team (the women's team sent its first two, Becky Wood and Tanya Williams, last season). 
Younger swimmers tend to look up to their senior leaders, figuratively as well as literally. 
"Jim is always there to give advice and encouragement." said sophomore Greg Hicks, in his first-year on the Irish swim team. "He is also inspiring by example." 
In his last year of collegiate competition, Birmingham seems more concerned about team goals than individual ac­corftplishments. 
"This year we hope to make a big step and become a nation­ally-ranked team; it would be exciting for me to look back on a few years down the road and say that I captained a nation­ally-ranked team here," he said. "Hopefully we will help Notre Dame swimming on its way." 
To reach their goal, the Irish will have to face rough waters. "This year is by far the mm;t 
HAPPY 19tlll BIRTHDAY 
STEPHANIE 
Love, Mom, 
Dad, Kristen a SUJDJidt. 
® 

~--------~~·-····-------------~ 
POWE~R .. . LUST... . <i E!ED 
• MfiCBETH 
Novt•mher IS· 19 B: I 0 p.111. Wn'hington II all Notrl' Dume Unin·t·sitY Students $11.00 :'\.,Jt-Stud;·ut-S I 0.00 
Pur.. l.a!W Ti,·h.d~ at l.al<nrtww Bo, 4)f'lin· 
intense schedule we've ever had," said Birmingham of the 1991-92 schedule, which in­cludes competition with Tennessee, West Virginia and five Big Ten teams. 
With one-quarter of the sea­son behind them, the Irish still look forward to several chal­lenges. Especially prominent in Birmingham's mind are December's National Collegiate Cham-pionships in Boston. 
"We were the champions the last two years," he said. "Both years it has come down to the last relay race. This year we hope to win it with a little more breathing space." 
Birmingham truly enjoys swimming for coach Tim Welch, who is in his seventh year as the head of the Irish Men. 
"Tim is a fantastic guy," said Birmingham. "He's a great coach who knows a lot about swimming, but he also goes out of his way to take an active role with his people." 
According to Birmingham, Welsh also has the inside track on new innovations in swim­ming, such as hand paddles, flippers, and belts. 
"(Welsh) is familiar with a lot of new techniques and tools," said Birmingham. "He's always more than willing to bring in something new to strengthen us. 
"In all the years I've been in­volved with swimming, I have the most respect for my coaches this year. They've put so much fun in it for the whole team." 
The Irish men's and women's swim teams will face Western Ontario at Rolfs Aquatic Center Friday at 7 p.m. 

Thursday, November 7, 1991 The Observer page 19 

CROSSWORD 

©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8726 
ACROSS 

1 Sulllllit 36 Greek letters 
62 Penny­

5 Highball ingredient 37 Tub 63 Biblical place10 "Look -1" 38 Grecian -64 Pigpens14 Blunder 65 Greek letters
39 Greek letter IS -grudge (show 40 Hit, as a golf ball 
111 will) 42 Rock DOWN 16 Mother of the gods 43 Sandarac tree 17 Part of Oliver Har-44 1964 movie, "­1 Moslem officials 
dy phrase (3 wds.) 2 Ice-cream container
Girl" 20 Sun Yat--47 West Point freshmen 3 Maugham tale, "The 
_..

21 Part of BPOE (abbr) 48 "If -I Would 22 Vane direction Leave You" 4 Newt 23 -station 49 Street, for short 5 Two pro football 24 Abbess 51 Ending for profit teams (4 wds.)26 Ornamental metal 52 Part of TNT 6 Dutch money
works 53 -Claire, Wise. 7 Vietcong insurgent
28 Cecil B. DeMille 56 The quality of tend-group (abbr.)
classic, "The -" ing to get smaller 8 "-'d toddle home 33 Finishes 60 Playwright Elmer safely and -bed" 34-sauce 9 Food protected from 
35 1970 academy-award 61 Novelist Charles spoilage (2 wds.)winning movie 10 Record player part 
11 Presidential candi­date of song, and family (2 wds.)
12 Costa­13 -chair 18 --sapiens19 Side show attraction 25 Game show hosts 26 Negative vote 27 Voided tennis play 28 Shows a propensity 29 Get used to 30 Bon-­31 Demolish, as a car 32 Catch 37 Thin layer of fine 
wood 38 Suffix for press 41 Miss Harper, for 
short 42 Shouts of surprise 43 Chemical suffix 45 Three lines of verse 46 Ellington vocalist, , 
-Anderson 49 "God's Little-" 50 Something to fill 52 Something to turn 54 Italian wine city 55 Exploits 57 Dudley Moore 
film 58 Siamese (var.)59 Siesta 

LECTURES 
Thursday 
4 p.m. Lecture, "Literature and Politics in Peru: Mario Vargos Llosa as a Presidential Candidate," Alonso Cueto, Institute Altamira, Lima, Peru. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
4:15p.m. American Catholic Studies Seminar, "Hopeless Cases: Th_e Women Who Prayed to Saint Jude, 1929-1965," Hobert Orsi, Indiana University, Bloomington. Hesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by Cushwa Center. 
7 p.m. Dick Ebersol, President of NBC Sports, will give a lecture hosted by the Law School, at the Notre Dame Law School courtroom located on the second floor of the law school. 
Friday 
Noon. November Lecture, "Leo Tolstoy, The Tolstoyans, and The Fate of Nonviolence in Russia," Natalia Pirumova, Hussian Academy of Science. Room C-103 Conference Room, Hesburgh Center for International Peace Studies. Sponsored by the department of history and the Institute for Scholarship in Liberal Arts. 
12:15 p.m. Father Michael Himes will discuss "Education for Moral Responsibility in a Pluralistic Society: A Catholic Perspective" at the Center for Social Concerns as part of the Friday Forum series. 
CAMPUS 
Thursday 
2:45 p.m. Film with Introduction by Larry Rottman, ''The Bicycle Doctors." Room 100, Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by English department. 
7 p.m. Film, "Deadly Deception." General Electric, on Nuclear Weapons and Our Environment, in the C.S.C. 
7 p.m. Presentation/Reception for all Bachelors interested in discovering career opportunities with Morgan Stanley & Company, Inc. Main Lounge, University Club. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
7:30 p.m. Poetry reading with music from Vietnam, "Voices From Ho Chi Minh Trail," Larry Rottman. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by English department. 
8 p.m. Fall Concert, SMC Women's Choir and the ND/SMC Collegiate Choir. Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Saint Mary's department of Music. 
8 p.m. The Mozart String Quartets. Faculty members from Notre Dame and•Vanderbilt University. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Music department. 
8 p.m. & 10:30 p.m.  Film, "Johnny Dangerously."  Cushing  
Auditorium.  
Also  don't  miss 

Bo 
K:OO & 10:30 PM Admission $2.00
Nov. 19th :00 PM Stepan Center 
rickets on sale at LaFortune Info. Desk starting Nov. 7th for ND/SMC Students for $8.00 and Nov. 11th for General Public for S 12.00. -sr-u'"""nr:'-'-:N~r-'u=N,'""'oN'---"-'n""l{', 


Johnny Dangerously Nov. 7th
Deans 
and 

101 Dalmatians
in Concert 

Nov. 8th & 9th 
Cushing Auditorium 


Sports 
page 16 Thursday, November 7, 1991 
Notre Dame women's soccer team wins IVICC crown 
'Fresh continue tradition of talent 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
In just four seasons since its inception the Notre Dame women's soccer team has rapidly risen from relative ob­scurity to national prominence. One reason for this success is that each year's freshman class has brought more talent to the team. 
This year's freshmen-midfielders Tiffany Thompson, Jodi Hartwig, Robin Mego and Alissa Hock, defender Jill Matesic and goalkeeper Kim Gold-are no exception. All, except Hock, who was out all year with a broken jaw, made on-field contributions to the team. 
"The freshmen had a major impact our season and what we've done this year," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said. "You just have to look at the stats. They 
see FROSH/page 14 


Irish dump Butler 1-0; end season 15-2-3 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer concluded its most successful season its Jour-year history yesterday capturing the first ever MCC w SOCC·3r championship and improving record to 15-2-3 with a 1-0 win ove Butler. 
"I am very happy for the girls," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli. "They now look back on the season and s they were the first ever MCC champs." 
Robin Mego scored the only goal of gamn with 27:55 left in the second She put the shot into an empty net Aliscn Lester was able to draw Butle goalkeeper Julie Murphy out of the net. 
The Irish had several other scorin chances but were denied by Murphy. the first half, Jodi Hartwig hit a wide 
see BUTLER/page 13 

Pay-per-view proposal: ABC-CFA contract fc>rces option 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
It won't cost you $59.95. It won't even cost you $29.95 or $19.95. 
But if you live in a Big Ten or Pac-1 0 town, it may very well cost you $9.95 to see th11 Nov. 16 Notre Dame-Penn State matchup on pay-per-view in what may or may not be a landmark event for the CFA. 
"The CFA called me five or six days ago," said Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal. "They asked us if in light of the required regional­ization of their contract with ABC, we would consent to permit the Penn State game to be carried in those areas that would not otherwise get to see the game. 
"We said yes, if the cost of viewing would be nominal. As it is, it is about one-third of what the normal pay-per view fee is. We looked at it and I called the administration, and we tried to judge whether it was better to have the game offered to those people who would not other­wise see it or not?" 

Penn State athletic director Jim Tarman was also reported as having agreed to the pro­posal. 
The idea of televising the game on pay-per-view came up because ABC's contract with the CFA mandates that the game can only be carried regionally to approximately 50 percent of the nation. The other 50 percent of the nation will see regional Big Ten and Pac-1 0 conference contests. 
The pay-per-view proposal would thus make the Notre Dame-Penn State game avail­able to that 50 percent of the country which falls within the boundaries of Big Ten and Pac­10 regional broadcast zones. Within these areas-which in­clude Chicago, Los Angeles and other major cities-those hav-

Dick Rosenthal 

ing cable TV access can pay to see the game on Showtime. 
"We feel that it is better to have it possible for people to see the game if they want to, rather than not at all," said Rosenthal. 
About 18 million out of 93.6 million television households are equipped for pay-per-view. This season, ABC has faced similar situation with Big Ten and Pac-1 0 games, as second­ranked Washington's games have not been broadcast to na­tional audiences. 
At noon EST on Nov. 16, ABC will televise nationally the game between No. 1 Florida State and No. 2 Miami. The regiond telecasts-including the Notre Dame-Penn State game-begin at 3:30p.m. 
Should Notre Dame win, the Irish could face the winner c·f the Florida State-Miami sho""­down for the national champi­onship January 1. 
Rosenthal also noted that most of the feedback he has re­ceived about the deal has been positive. 
"I've received a few calls, and the majority of them have urged us to get the game on TV," noted Rosenthal. "Some would prefer to see it on free TV, but contracts with the Big Ten and Pac-10 don't allow that." 
Rosenthal also pointed out that fmancial concerns were not 
a factor in the pay-per-view decision. 
"This is clearly not designed to be a big money-maker, as the price is one-third of what pay­per-view usually costs," said Rosenthal. "Money just isn't the motivation for doing it." 
Despite the tentative agree­ment between Penn State, Notre Dame, ABC and the CFA, the deal may still fall through. 
"We're on a holding pattern right now," ABC Sports spokesman Mark Mandel said. "We had hoped to know by now if it was feasible, but we don't. We hope to know in the next day or so." 
"It hasn't been determined yet if it will go pay-per-view," said Rosenthal, "because certain technical things must be worked out, and I'm not sure that they can be accomplished in such a short timespan."' 
Thomas P. Wyman of the Associated Press contributed to this report. 

Irish men's soccer team in Indy for MCC tourney 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After completing an 11-4-2 regular season with two straight non-conference wins, the Notre Dame men's soccer team is in Indianapolis today for the first round of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament. 
Wins over Western Michigan and Kentucky in brutal weather conditions prepared the Irish for just about anything first­round opponent Detroit or Mother Nature can throw at them. 
Notre Dame's 4-1-1 conference record was good enough to earn them a tie with Loyola for second-place in the final standings. Because of a season-opening loss to the Ramblers, however, the Irish will have to settle for the third seed in the tournament. The only other blemish on their conference record is a scoreless tie against MCC regular season champion Evansville. 
Sixth-seeded Detroit will be the Irish opponent in today's opening round. In the regular season match against the Titans, freshman Tim Oates scored the game-winner as the Irish breezed to a 3-0 win. 

Oates and the rest of the freshman class have been major contributors to the success of the soccer team this season.. The rookies have accounted for more than half of the Irish point total this season. 
Freshman Jean Joseph is the team's leading scorer with 26 points, despite missing the first five games of the season with a leg injury, and Oates is second with 17 points. 
"It's rewarding to turn our record around," said senior co­captain Kenyon Meyer of the reversal of last year's 4-11-3 record. "The ability of the freshmen has played a major role, but it's been a team effort and everybody's out for the good of the team." 
It has been a team effort for the Irish this season. Sophomore Mike Palmer has collected 14 points and Meyer has tallied eleven. Juniors Kevin Pendergast and Brendan Dillman are close behind with nine points each. 
On the other side of the ball, senior co-captain Brett 
The Observer/John Rock Freshman Tont Richardson (17) brings the ball across midfield. Richardson and his Irish teammates travel to 
see MCC/page 14 Indianapolis today for the MCC tournament. 




