.,-.. I , . . 

VOL. XXIII NO. 126 Friday, April12, 1991 · THE1NDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MAR't"S 

AP Phoro 
Baker meets with Shamir 
U.S. Secretary of State James Baker, left, gestures during his meeting with Israeli Premier Yitzhak Shamir, held at the Israeli Prime Minister's office in Jerusalem, Wednesday 
Security Council formally ends Persian Gulf War 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The Security Council announced a formal end to the Gulf War on Thursday, accepting Iraq's pledge that it will pay for war damages and scrap its weapons of mass destruction. 
At 6 p.m. EDT, Iraqi Ambas­sador Abdul Amir al-Anbari en­tered the council chambers and received a letter containing the official cease-fire declaration. 
A Feb. 28 truce declared by the U.S.-led allied coalition halted hostilities, but only the Security Council, which autho­rized the use of force to oust Iraq from Kuwait, could rescind the state of war. 
The letter from council presi­dent Paul Noterdaeme, the Bel­gian ambassador, formally capped a war that began Jan. 17 with a blistering allied air campaign. The fighting con­cluded in late February, after a furious 100-hour land offensive that drove Iraqi troops out of Kuwait. 

The allied forces lost some­thing more than 200 lives in combat. Iraqi dead are esti­mated in the tens of thousands. Thousands more Iraqis have perished since in internal uprisings and in Saddam Hus­sein's suppression of them. 
The letter to Iraq noted Iraq's acceptance of the council's terms and concluded, "the conditions ... have now been met and that the formal cease­fire ... is therefore now effec­tive." 
The council's cease-fire reso­lution, passed April 3, included stringent demands for the de­struction of Iraq's chemical, biological and nuclear weapons and payment of war damages to Kuwait. 
It set a 120-day timetable for steps to destroy the arms. 
The ban on selling Iraq weapons of mass destruction and long-range ballistic mis­siles, and the technology to de­velop them, will remain in effect indefinitely. 
By Aug. 1, a year minus a day after Iraq invaded Kuwait, the Security Council will review its ban on other arms sales to Iraq "taking into account Iraq's compliance with this resolu­tion." 
Baghdad also would have to 
see UN I page 11 

Lafayette Square complex ends first year of operation 
By SIOBHAN McCARTHY 
News Writer 
After just one year in busi­ness, Lafayette Square Town­homes still have a few kinks left to iron out, according to man­ager Christopher Matteo. 
'Tm happy with it. After the first year of any business, you're always ironing out the bugs. We think we've got a pretty good handle on it," said Matteo. 
Located just one mile south­east of the Notre Dame en­trance on East Jefferson Boule­vard, Lafayette Square Town­homes are available to all stu­dent members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
Currently, 20 of 21 available units are being rented. "For next year, we are adding an additional 9 units. Of those (30), 28 are pre-leased," said Matteo. 
Four and five bedroom units are available with a washer and dryer, dishwasher, central air, and patio in each facility. Maintenance service covers all but plumbing costs, he said. 




Off -Campus Housing 
SECOND OFA TWO PART SERIES 
• Other complexes /page 9,1 0 
Students pay for utility costs. 
A security system, which in­cludes a front and back door motion detector as well as front and rear porch lights, is an option for each unit. Residents must pay extra for this option. 
A security guard is also pre­sent during breaks to ensure safety, according to Matteo. 
One major concern among Lafayette Square residents is the amount of available parking space. Only two spaces are al­lotted for each four and five bedroom unit. 
Matteo initially promised residents that parking would become available as soon as "we acquired the (additional) houses" across the street. For a 
few months, student parking 
needs were appeased with the 
extra parking spaces. 
However, construction is now underway for next year's addi­tional apartments and parking has been expressly forbidden in these areas due to possible danger posed by construction, he said. 
"Temporary parking has been taken away for safety. Eventu­ally parking will become avail­able again. It's going to depend on construction," said Matteo. 
"Something desperately needs to be done. It's just too dan­gerous to be parking cars in the street," said resident Jen Salmon, a Notre Dame senior. 
Senior Mark Budde also had qualms about the parking situ­ation. "There are two spots available. There are five of us and we just so happen to have five cars," Budde said. 
"My car was parked down the street and it was stolen," Budde said. He said he didn't think the thieves would have come into the the lighted Lafayette Square Complex to steal it, if there had been space available. 


Demonstrators show no regrets 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Abortion is a life and death situation. It is more than a topic open for discussion. And, according to the four Notre Dame students arrested last Friday for criminal trespassing at the Women's Pavilion, the pro-life movement is calling for action. 
Junior Elsa Scheidler, sophomore Bill Keen and freshmen Katrina Hilton and Claire Johnson, all Notre Dame students, were among the more than 100 anti-abortion protestors arrested by police last Friday morning for block­ing the entrance to patrons of the Women's Pavilion, 2010 Ironwood Circle, where abor­tion services are offered. 
Plans for a protest began in . October at a regular pro-life meeting held on campus. Fri­day's protest was organized by the Fort Wayne-based North East Indiana Rescue group. 
Operation Rescue, as the group is called, is a passive or­ganization that does not use physical or verbal violence as methods of protest. Non-coop­eration with the police is en­couraged as a means to buy time in preventing expectant 
mothers from entering the clinic. 
Non-cooperation refers to the protesters' method of making their body limp when being ar­rested, thus lengthening the amount of time to complete the arrest. 
"Our intention was to give mothers and babies another chance," Keen said, in reference to the protest that led to their arrest. 
Women's Pavilion, according to the Notre Dame protestors, performs nearly ten abortions per day between the hours of 8 
see ABORTION I page 7 
The only (additional) avail­able spaces are on Eddie and Francis," said fourth year law student Kelly Gilchrist. She said she felt that these areas were dangerous and initially, poorly lit. 
"I was really worried at first when they didn't have a light in the parking lot. It was pitch dark," said Gilchrist. 
Matteo has since installed lights in these areas. 
Despite Gilchrist's concerns for her safety, ND senior Beth Bolger said she feels very safe at Lafayette Square. "Security has been great because we paid for a security system. We had a false alarm once and the police were there within two min­utes," she said. 
Salmon agreed. "Our security system works fine," she said. 
But third-year law student John Lake said he did not feel security at Lafayette Square was up to par, blaming the construction of the facilities for the problems. "The security is not the best. For three months we couldn't lock the deadbolt and our sliding door wouldn't 
close. It's just not very well 
built," Lake said. 
"It's not very safe neighbor­hood," he added. "We've had numerous problems with van­dalism." 
Lake also said that he feels the insulation in the units was poorly installed, which has had an impact on the utility costs. This discrepancy presents a troublesome give-and-take sit­uation for Lake, as he said "the rent is relatively low, but you have to pay utilities which winds up making it more ex­pensive." 
Salmon agreed that insulation is a problem at Lafayette Square. "There are definitely drafts," she said. 
"(Utility costs) were higher than what we thought they were going to be," said Budde. 
"All the insulation within the units has been inspected and approved in accordance with state and local building codes," according to Matteo. "I have not had any complaints about it all. Our gas-forced air heating 

see LAFAYETTE/ page 9 

Sophomore Siblings Weekend 


Schedule of Events 
Friday 

3-6:30 p.m. Registration, Sorin Room, LaFortune. 7·8:15 p.m. Ice cream social, Theodore's. 8:30-11:30 p.m. Orientation and movie, Library Auditorium. 

Saturday 

11:30 a.m.-1 :30 p.m. Picnic, Fieldhouse Mall (Rain place, Stepan Center}. 5:45-9 p.m. Semi-formal dinner. Speaker: lou Holz; Entertainment 
by Shenanigans. 9 p.m.-12 a.m. Casino Night and dance, Theodore's. 
Sunday 1G-11 a.m. Mass, Grotto (Rain place: Stanford/Keenan Chapel). 
11:15 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Brunch, North and South Dining Halls .. 
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Censorship is a sign of larger problems 
"Help! Help!, I'm being------­repressed." This infamous quote from Monty Python's 'Holy Grail' sums up the collective frustration of my bookstore team, Box the Compass, with the --~, ...~_, __ tyrannical Bookstore Michael
Basketball censorship 
Whitmancommittee. While I agree 
Accent Designer
that obscene and and overly abusive names ------­should not be allowed, the censorship of the original name we submitted is emblematic of a serious attitude problem present at Notre Dame. 
'We Like Sex A Lot" is not obscene, offen­sive, or in anyway abusive. It is just a simple straightforward statement of fact. The only thing wrong is that it contains that awful three-letter word which, if the administration had its way, would be stricken from all the dictionaries on campus. Maybe if our name had been 'We Like Sex As Long It Is Only For Procreation And In The Context Of Marriage And Is In Compliance With Canon Law' it would not have been censored. 
The denial of sex and sexuality is unhealthy Gust read your Freud) yet the Administration seems bent on repressing all sexual expression. The result of this denial is evident in the predominantly impotent male­female relationships, the lack of recognition for alternative views of sexuality and the ever present yet unpublicized problem of rape. If the University would encourage students to expose their sexuality in the open instead of driving it underground, these problems could be dealt with in a healthy manner. 
Furthermore, as long as I'm griping, the University's ban on sex is nothing short of ludicrous. Sex is a beautiful part of human­ity's inherit nature and prohibiting it is analogous to forbidding the birds to sing and the bees to buzz. It is true that Notre Dame is a Catholic University and that students choose to come here knowing the University's rules. This does not mean, however, that they choose chastity. Yes, despite the administrations best efforts short of chastity belts, to control the student body, there are people at Notre Dame who have sex. (Or so I've heard.) 
Even for those students who agree with Catholic doctrine regarding sex, the Univer­sity's sexual prohibition is insulting. Chastity and all Catholic virtues are meaningful only if they are chosen, not imposed. Religious virtue which is not chosen is empty. Forced chastity has no more value than following the speed-limit. In order to choose the Catholic view of sexuality there must be a choice. There is no choice according to the Administration only repressive dogma. 
In conclusion, I know that this column will not change anything. I am only writing it to articulate my frustration. The Admin­istration's rate of change is similar that of the continental drift. But I've won a small a battle. Despite Bookstore censorship, my team and I would like to declare that, 'WE LIKE SEX A LOT'. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Thursday's Staff Production Jeanne Blasi 
News Melissa Cusack Frank Rivera Meredith Me Cullough Systems 
Siobhan McCarthy Chris Caracciolo 
Edouard Beauvais Accent Robyn Simmons Circulation Charmaine Martinez Bill O'Rourke 
Michelle Devers Matt Novak Shonda wilson 
VIewpointSports 
Michael Krause Rene Ferran 
Graphics
Scoreboard 
Steve BurgunRolando de Aguiar Ann-Marie Conrado Michael Muldoon 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Frida~ April 12,1991 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Fire strikes St. Peter's Basilica 
•VATICAN CITY -A small fire in the sacristy of St. Peter's Basilica sent up a column of black smoke Thursday evening but caused no injuries or damage to relics in the nearby treasury, police and news reports said. The sacristry is in a domed wing of the basilica, connected to the main part of the church by a corridor. The treasury, an exhibit room for tourists, is in the same wing. It was closed for the day when the fire broke out. An Italian policeman said he was on duty in St. Peter's Square at 5:55 p.m. when he saw smoke coming from a second-floor window and called in an alarm. The fire burned for about 20 minutes before put it out, said the policeman, who declined to be identified by name. 

CAMPUS 
•NOTRE DAME, lnd.-Members of the task force to develop a University policy on smoking are as follows: John Duman, chair (239-5495); Joel Barstad (271-0913); Ann Bauer {239-6335); Michael Danch (239-5030); James Frain (239-5389); Richard Hilliard (239-5386); Father Ander Leveille (239-6126); Robert Miller (239-7790); Melissa Mong (283-2580); Patrick Richards (674-5648); Carol Seager (239-7497); Donald Sniegowski (239-6544); Matthew Verich (283-1643); and Sherri Walter (239­6902). These members can be contacted for those having questions about the task force and its plans. 
127 of 


OF INTEREST 
•Mock 
MCATs will be given in room Nieuwland Science Hall Saturday, April 20 for all students who would like to take the sample MCAT that accompa­nies the MCAT Student Manual. Manuals are still available in the bookstore. A timekeeper will be present. Exam begins at 9:30 am. 

•Traditional 
Native American Pow Wow will be held at Stepan Center on Sunday from 12 to 7 p.m. 

•Engineering 
"Arts and Leisure" day takes place all day today on Cushing Quad. Chalk and Chalkboards will be provided for outside classes. The Volleyball Tournament is at 3 p.m. on Cushing Quad followed by the PicnirJLive Band and Tie-dye at 4 p.m. 

•An 
Tostal '91 sign-ups are being held today in the SUB office from 4-6 p.m. Graduate as well as under-


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April11, 1991 
VOWME II SHARES lYSE IIIDEX A.__ 
2.15
206.57 -u­
96.63 Million 
S&P COMPOSITE .B... 377.63 v 4.48 
DOW JOIIES IIDUSTRIALS 2,907.92 i}33.42 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD -f $.40 to $364.40/oz. 
SILVER {} 4.75e to $3.985/oz. 


NATIONAL 

Abdul denies backup singer's claims 
• LOS ANGELES-Pop star Paula Abdul went on the offensive Thursday in the biggest musical flap since Milli Vanilli proved to be phony baloney, insisting the lead vocals on "Forever Your Girl" are forever hers. The singer-choreographer appeared at a Hollywood news conference to counter claims by backup singer Yvette Marine, who alleged in a Superior Court lawsuit she had "substantial participation" in some songs on the top­selling album.Miss Abdul explained the use of "guide tracks" in recording, a practice in which artists learn songs by listening to a demo by another person. Miss Marine's lawsuit claims the backup singer's guide tracks were used to strengthen Miss Abdul's voice. Virgin Records claims the vocals were left out. 

CAMPUS 

•NOTRE DAME, lnd.-Notre Dame will spray American elm trees on campus beginning Monday and continuing one to two weeks, depending on the weather. The spraying is part of an extensive elm preservation program carried out annually to protect the approximately 150 elms remaining on campus. The elms will be sprayed with the insecticide Methoxychlor to control the elm bark beetle, which spreads Dutch elm disease. 
graduate students can participate. Today is the final day to sign up for the Impersonation Contest, the Slam Dunk Contest, the Golf-Tourney, the Road Rally and the Air­band/Lip-sync Contest. 
•Junior 
Parents' Weekend applications for chairperson are available in Student Activities, 3rd floor of LaFortune and are due Friday at 5 p.m. 

•Notre 
Dame Video needs a new manager and new employees for next year. Applications are available in the store and are due today by 5 p.m. Call Steve Perkins 283-1605 for information. 

•Irish 
Gardens is taking applications for positions for the coming year. Applications can be picked up at the shop in the basement of LaFortune and are due by Saturday, April 13 by 5:30 p.m. Applicants must be on work study. Delivery positions still open. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1861: The Civil War began as Confederate forces fired on Fort Sumter in South Carolina. 

• 
In 1945: Franklin Delano Roosevelt died of a cerebral hemorrhage at age 63. 

• 
In 1961 : Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the first man to fly in space, orbiting the earth once before making a safe landing. 

• 
In 1980: The U.S. Olympic Committee endorsed President Carter's call for a boycott of the Moscow Summer Olympics. 

• 
Ten years ago: The space shuttle Columbia was 


launched for the rtrst time at Cape Kennedy, Florida. 

Friday, April 12, 1991 The Observer page 3 

Josephson emphasizes ethical decision-making 

By CAROLINE CLARKE Saint Mary's News Writer 
Most people dial 911 in an emergency. Troubled busi­nesses simply call Michael Josephson. 
Josephson, founder of the non-profit Joseph and Edna Josephson Institute of Ethics, spoke at Saint Mary's Tuesday evening about the increasing need to improve people's ethical decision making skills. The in­stitute is for public benefit and is an active organization em­phasizing conduct, not theory. 
A UCLA law graduate, Josephson spent 20 years as a law professor at Loyola Mary­mount University in Los Ange­les. His ethics seminar is avail­able to executives, governmen­tal officials and interested indi­viduals. A featured speaker for the IRS, NBC and CBS, he has made a great contribution to businesses. 
His workshops have inspired a California law passed in 1990, making the attendance of all state legislature to Joseph­son's class mandatory. 
Josephson stated that pro­fessional responsibility courses abound, yet an ethics course carries a negative connotation. Most people assume that such a course entails dogmatic teach­ing about what is right and wrong. 
"Ethics is the courage to say you will play by groundrules," he noted. "Our standards are not our standards unless we do not uphold them. Character is how you act when you think no one is looking." 
Numerous studies by the in­stitute indicate record levels of cheating by all age groups. Josephson admitted that cheaters often do succeed in life. One of the prime motiva­tions for cheaters is that they make things a moral impera­tive. 
"They elevate the importance of their tasks," he said. "In many situations, people ask what can I do rather than what should I do. They want to see how much they can get away with." 
Josephson defined an ethic as, "a value that the absence or presence of will lead to a moral judgement of a person. A value, on the other hand, is any core belief motivating our behavior." 
He cautioned that all values are not in the moral world. If we subordinate ethical values to non-ethical values, we've given up any claims to ethics. 
"Lies deprive another person of autonomy, robbing them of information to make a deci­sion," he added. 
Josephson targeted his speech to the students, recog­nizing them as the future busi­nesspeople. 
"A person must take courage and be willing to fall," he said. "It requires being a lot stronger than counterparts who may take the easy way out." 
AP Photo 

Pointing the way 

Paul Saulnier of Houston guildes the boom operator in maneuvering a stinger into a burning oil well in the Greater Burgan Oil Field Thursday. Joe Bowden's Wild Well Control team was successful in stinging into and killing a burning well Wednesday due to a stinger's improper seal. 



NO, Saint Mary's students to participate in Christmas in April 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Editor-in-Chief 
Last Saturday, skilled laborers along with 60 Notre Dame students started the work that will undoubtedly make a differ­ence in the lives of many South Bend residents. 
This Saturday, approximately 2,700 volunteers from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, along with volunteers from the com­munity, will work hard to im­prove the St. Casimir's/Ford Street neighborhood through South Bend's third annual Christmas in April. 
A major improvement from years before is that the Christ­mas in April committee will try to ensure that every volunteer has meaningful work to do, said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security and committee chairman. 
O_n Saturday morning each 

house captain has been in­structed to assess the needs of the individual house and deter­mine if there are too many vol­unteers. In this case, a house captain can offer to the volun­teers the option of working elsewhere, including neighbor­hood improvement projects such as park clean-ups. 
"We'd rather have them (the volunteers) reassigned than not have anything to do," Johnson said. 
In the event of rain, Johnson said some adjustments may be in order. Depending on whether the -rain is particularly heavy, some outside work, such as painting may be cancelled. 
He asked that those planning on working outside be dressed appropriately in case of show­ers on Saturday. It may be nec­essary to send people home if the rain impairs the volunteers ability to do work, he added. 
Johnson said that volunteers who signed up prior to the deadline should have already received letters with specific assignments. With the large number of volunteers already signed up, he said addition vol­unteers are not needed. 
Workers should meet at 7:45 
a.m. in front of the Alumni/Senior Club. Coffee and donuts will be available for all volunteers. In addition, lunch will be served at each work site. 
At the end of the day, all in­volved with the project are in­vited to attend a celebration at the West Side Democratic Club, 617 South Warren Street. 
Johnson said the work that has already been done in the Saint Casimir's/Ford Street neighborhood is tremendous. "The great number of volun­teers is really heartening." 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Church 2nd Sunday of Easter 
5:00 pm Fr. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
10:00 am Fr. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. 
11:45 am Fr. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 
AMERICAN EXPRESS' 

Gold Card 
PRESENTS 

.. 
in association with BCL Group 
s 
L

PAUL 



SIMON 
A

"BORN AT 
THE RIGHT TIME" 
\HTH FEAITRED SOLOIST MICHAEL BRECKER 
APRIL 16, · 7:30 P.M. NOTREDAMEJOYCECENTER 


All Seats reserved ~22.50 
TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE 
OPEN VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT 
at JOYCE CENTER BOX OFFICE 
ONE NIGHT TOURNEY 
plus ALL TICKETMASTER LOCATIONS, area outlets L.S. AYRES (U.P. & SCOTTSDALE 

FRIDAY APRIL 12 7:00-10:00PM
MALL), NIGHTWINDS (NILES), SUPER SOUNDS (CONCORD MALL), CARSON'S 

BRING A TEAM OR MEET PARTNERS THERE 
(MICH. CITY), BOOGIE RECORDS (BENTON 

TRIPLES SIX-ON-SIX
HBR.), KARMA RECORDS (PLYM.) TO CHARGE BY PHONE: I-800-359-8383 
JACC FIELDHOUSE NO ADVANCE REGISTRATION NECESSARY 

r • • , .. ,~ , 1 

page 4 The Observer Friday, April 12, 1991 



Gray: Church and state Holtz: Positive attitude is key 
beome more intertwined By PETER LOFTUS doesn't everyone have one?" Christmas with the family and 
BY KEVIN GRUBEN 
News Writer 
Rev. Donald Gray. canon of Westminster Abbey. last night discussed today's relationship between the Church and politics in Great Britain. 
Gray, who is the chaplain to Queen Elizabeth II. received his degree in theology from the University of London. Before moving to Westminster Abbey, Gray did ecumenical work in parishes in England's northern provinces. 
Gray began his lecture by stating that the topic of the in­teraction between religion and politics is similarly as sensitive in England as it is in the United States. He pointed out that the recent Gulf War has once again brought up the fact that the two are intertwined in one another. 
"Intercessions such as those made by political leaders such as George Bush during the war have become more and more common," he stated. 
He continued by giving a brief history of the relationship be­tween the state and the Church in England since the time of the establishment of the Anglican Church until the present. Gray said that recently there has been a sharp decline in the number of those who have been attending Anglican services. 
In actuality, although there are more members of the An­glican Church, Grlly said the Roman Catholic Church has a larger percentage of attendants in England. 
Despite this decline in Angli­can attendance, he said there have been recent movements within the government to gain more power. The Worship­Doctrine Measure. which was passed in the 1970's gave the Church a great deal of power over its own affairs, something it has not always had in the past. 
·-------­

Gray said, however, that this drive towards power indepen­dent of the state by the Church has not gone unchecked by con­servatives in the British Par­liament. As Gray pointed out, "Vigorous backlash was led by Margaret Thatcher herself." 
He went on to cite two exam­ples of the tension between Christianity and conservatism in English politics. He first talked about a document enti­tled the "Faith in the City Re­port" which was issued by the Church in 1985 and which re­ceived much opposition from conservatives in government. 
The report discussed certain changes that should be made by the Church, including better employment of the clergy, bet­ter distribution in funds, im­provements in education and an increase in size of its urban programs. Conservatives were wary of the report, which showed an increase in the ini­tiative of the Church. 
The second example Gray brought up was that of the Falkland Islands War of 1982. After the end of the war, Robert Runcie, the Archbishop of Canterbury, was asked to make a speech at a Thanksgiving service at the Parliament. Runcie, a staunch proponent of the establishment of the Church in the English government, was critical of the conservatism which was present in Parlia­ment in his speech. 
The tension between the English government and the Church still exists today. 
"I hope we can hold it (the establishment) in trust so that we can share it with our other Christian brothers and sisters someday," Gray ended. 
The lecture by Gray was sponsored by the theology de­partment. 
f 
' 

CharbroiledChicken 
A boneless, charbroiled breast .ll!liilil,,crvo~rl with sauce and rice or potato. 

MexieanChicken 
A charbroiled, boneless breast topped with onions, tomatoes, cheddar, salsa. With rice or potato. 
Hawaiian Chicken 
•

A charbroiled, boneless breast topped • M<h grilled pino.pplo, w~<h rtre. ~ , ~1 
ChickenTenders '' ~ ~\ 
Boneless breast fillets, fried C::Z ~ :' 

A boneless, charbroiled chicken breast. Available at participating locations. A dieter's delight. Prices may vary. 



ChickenStirFry ~~,~~
Marinated breast strips sauteed with vegetables. With teriyaki sauce and rice. 
o;nnen; mcJude 
I 

S~Souu. I 
Salad1Fndt oar j 
Shoney's welcomes the 
• 
303 Dixie Way Sou~"."~:;~~:nd.eants ~ 
• 
Assistant News Editor 
Overcoming both adversity and doubts about self-image as well as having a sense of pur­pose are essential to motivation and leadership, said Notre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz. 
Holtz, who in 1988 employed such methods to coach his team to an undefeated record and a national championship, last night told a packed Hayes­Healy auditorium that a positive attitude is the key to success. 
"Leadership is nothing more than having a sense of pur­pose," said Holtz, "having a ba­sic confidence in what you're doing." 
In spite of his self-professed inferior intelligence, Holtz dis­played a remarkable knack for lecturing, holding the audi­ence's attention with humorous anecdotes about his players, colleagues and family members. And though it was sponsored by the Management Club and management department. his message was in no way directed only to business students. 
To illustrate his point about attitude, Holtz noted that in 1976 he signed a promising 5­year coaching contract with the NFL's New York Jets, a job which "should have been the epitome of happiness." How­ever, because he went into the job with an unstable attitude, he only lasted 8 months before he left the team. 
By contrast, Holtz's coaching stint with the University of Minnesota in the early 1980s was marked with success and happiness, mainly because of a positive attitude, he said. 
"(My coaching career at) Minnesota was one of the most rewarding things I've ever done," said Holtz. 
In answering his own ques­tion, "If the key to leadership and motivation is as simple as having the right attitude, why Holtz cited three reasons: 

•Adversity: "In the next 12 months, everyone will have at least three crises," said Holtz, underscoring his point that since everyone faces adversity, it can't be used as an excuse for not having attitude. 
Holtz listed several moments of adversity in his life, including his parents' divorce, the loss of his own college sweetheart and, of course, adversity in football. 
The ND alumni provide a constant source of adversity for Holtz, he said jokingly. In his first year, they demanded that he field a "competitive team." He did so, but then they demanded that he win. He did the following season, but then the alumni told him to win all his games. He did so again, but then he was told "to win by a lot." 
To stress the importance of fundamentals, Holtz instructed his listeners to practice the same timing drill, involving clapping hands, that he uses with his players. 
Adversity is a part of life, said Holtz, and its importance lie in each person's ability to react favorably to it. He added that adversity should not prevent a person from taking chances in life, saying that to be average was less than desirable. 
"To be average, to me, is nothing," said Holtz. "I'd rather fail 20 times than not try at all. You have to take chances." 
•A lost sense of purpose: "When you set your goals, re­member: WIN," said Holtz, re­ferring to his anagram for "What's Important Now." 
"Too many people lose their sense of purpose in life," said Holtz. He recalled his prepara­tions for the 1988 national championship game against West Virginia in the Sunkist Fi­esta Bowl. The month preced­ing the game was divided into various sections, each of which focused on academics, football, finally on building a sense of family within the team. 
"As a football team, we want to educate and graduate our players and win," said Holtz. 
Holtz also told his listeners, many of whom were business students. that they must focus and capitalize on people's needs, using the success of fast­food chains like McDonald's and Domino's as illustrations. 
"I like strawberries," Holtz said, but he doesn't use them as bait when fishing. 
•Low self-image: "Ninety-five percent of the people in this world do not believe in them­selves," said Holtz. "You can't be good if you don't have a good self-image." 
He listed three rules for maintaining a positive self-im­age: do right, do the best you can and follow Jesus Christ's Golden Rule. One can follow these guidelines by answering three corresponding questions: "Can I trust you?", "Are you committed to excellence?" and "Do you care about me?" 
Concerning trust, Holtz touched on the recent NCAA al­legations against his conduct as coach at Minnesota. 
He explained that he paid for a former athlete's correspon­dence course, and felt justified since the student had no inten­tion of playing football for Holtz. He also lent money to a recruit whose wallet was stolen, admitting it was "the dumbest thing I ever did," but also adding that "I felt I'd done the right thing." 
Holtz was cleared of all alle­gations by the NCAA rulings committee last month. 
Holtz also touched upon stu­dent support for NO basketball coach Digger Phelps. He said that students are obliged to support their coaches, and that it is up to the administration to determine who coaches. 


THE ACTION IS BACK!! IRISH LACROSSE 



NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH VS CORNELL BIG RED 
Saturday, April 13th 


2:00 pm Moose Krause Stadium 
FREE ADMISSION!! 



t,________~.-~ ~~-----------·--------------~---------¢~~ ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------' 
Friday, April 12, 1991 

Dean Winicur leaves ND post without regret 


ROFFLER 
PHONE (219) 233-4957 SORB IE PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
ROCCO'S STYl[ SHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS·COLOR 

"A tour de force... unforgettable." 
-Rowr ~:twrr. CHK>\GO SL~:ri\IES 
"Sc,andalously funny." 
-Jay Carr. flO~1'0\.GWilE 
.. 1\lakes Jt"rem~ Irons a shoo-in for tht" Best Actor 08t'ar." 
-Rk·hanl Frt•t•clmau. 
\ E\\ IIOl SE \ E\\SI'\I'ERS 
..r\ spine-tingling Chiller... -Pat Collins. 
\\ \\OR:r\ 
.. Shocking and juir}~ A wrriftr mO\ie." 
-R~\ Rt'!'d 
GLENN C~E ·JEREMY IRONS 1m SILVER 


RE\'ER&Lqf~lllmJNE 
1M C.U. ofCimu W... 8tJow.. Ax Amn-iam Saga ofMmwy and Mystny. 
WARNER Ilia1'1{&\TI mf.I:AliARD R. ~Plm~ IN r\mlA'OOi WT!li SfooilKC FL~I Co Lm AND ~m:xJN PrJ1iRffi AAL~ !ri &ruii&JiRoof.R GI1Nl Q.m: •jEID1YIm ~~\a!·~(): Rli1HI" ·nlARK ~ ()}tl(llQl\E!oo 1.09mmAND NnrusKAzAN ~mMnwl w ~NOOA5KiliN11f~'AIA'l [Wmm Plll~fJ:MAAD R.~ANDOM.R Sm ~&R!£1' &Jmm 
'".. =~~.1"
IRI~-4.-Ifl ~:. ,,..,._...~""' ................ T 

1991 ACADEMY AWARD YllllfER-BEST ACTOR 
Cinema at the n te 
TONIGHT AND SATURDAY 7:30 9:45 
The Observer page 5 


By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
Daniel Winicur, dean of administration and registrar at the University of Notre Dame, said he will leave Notre Dame with no regrets. 
Winicur announced Thursday he will resign both positions June 30 to join Franklin College in Franklin, Ind., as vice-presi­dent for academic affairs and dean of the college. 
"I learned how to work with all kinds of different people," at ND, Winicur said. "That's something I will take with me forever." 
Winicur said that his job at Franklin will be very similar to that of University Provost Timothy O'Meara, whom he called "a good model." 
According to Winicur, the main difference between Franklin and ND is their dif­ferent emphases. "Notre Dame considers itself a premiere national Catholic research facility. Franklin has made a commitment to 
quality  teaching  and  
counseling  of  
undergraduates."  

Winicur considers the in­troduction of Direct Access Registration by Telephone (DART) his greatest success 
at ND. 
While he said he has achieved everything he set out to do at ND, Winicur be­lieves that the University should continue working on making student information available to all departments in the University. "It's get­ting there, but it's going slow," he said. 
Winicur's wife, Sandra, will remain at Indiana Uni­versity -South Bend as chairwoman of the biology department for the time be­ing. "She still has one year left on her term." 
Dean of administration since 1985, Winicur first joined the N.D faculty in 1970 as an assistant professor in the chemistry department. Prior to his ap­pointment as registrar in 1983, he served as assistant dean of the College of Science for four years. He also served as a research scientist in NO's Radiation Laboratory. 
Winicur plans to remain at ND through Commencement next month, but will take June ofT to prepare for the move to Franklin, which is approximately 20 miles south of Indianapolis. 
By BECKY RITZERT 
News Writer 
Never in history has both en­ergy and the environment ranked so high on the United States' agenda of concerns, ac­cording to Robert Gentile, As­sistant Secretary for Fossil En­ergy of the U. S. Department of Energy. 
"Recent world events have certainly brought energy back to the center stage," said Gen­tile. But he added that, "the conflict in the Middle East was about much more than oil." 
"We live today in a world that's found a new sense of en­vironmental conscience," stated Gentile. "Membership in envi­ronmental groups far exceeds membership in political par­ties." 
The United States is finally achieving a much needed "equilibrium" between energy concerns and environmental concerns, according to Gentile. 
"For too many years, the pendulum has swung from one issue to another," said Gentile. "Every time we turned from one to the other, we lost our sense of balance," he added. 
President Bush set up a 

"National Energy Strategy" about two months ago which, according to Gentile, is a step toward a national energy policy. 
"The National Energy Strat­egy tries to impress upon the American people that we can neither conserve nor produce our way out of this dilemma. We must do both," said Gentile. 
Gentile pointed out that much has already been done in the way of conservation. 
"Today in the U. S. we con­sume the same amount of en­ergy that we consumed in 1973," said Gentile. This is in spite an increase in the number of homes as well as in the Gross National Product. 
"That is an incredible feat in conservation," said Gentile. He added that no such accom­plishment has been achieved anywhere else in the world. 
Further conservation and en­ergy efficiency depends upon advanced technologies which are currently being developed, said Gentile. But he said that until these technologies are ready for implementation, we will continue to rely on fossil fuels to meet our energy needs. 
"It is a myth that we can't tackle problems such as acid 
rain and still use fossil fuels," 
said Gentile. 
Gentile offered the example of "fluidized bed combustion" of coal, which is now replacing the pulvarized coal technique which has been in use for more than seventy years. 
"It's unique in that the clean­up occurs as you burn the coal," said Gentile. "The pollu­tants are converted back to a more useful resource," he said. 
The $5 billion Clean Coal Technology Program is the government's largest single en­ergy and environmental initia­tive. 
There is just as much effort going into the development of energy technology as there is going to the defense technology which the American people wit­nessed during the recent war coverage, said Gentile. 
"It is important for us to transport the new technologies to the third world," added Gen­tile. If we fail to do so, accord­
ing to Gentile, we  hurt our­ 
selves  as  well  as  the other  
countries.  

"We are a tremendously en­ergy rich nation," concluded Gentile, but our greatest re­source is "the innovation." 

P.I.M.E• MISSIONARIES 
Fulfilling one's life through • missionary vocation 
~ 

The PontlbJ ll'lltltut• for Forwign Miuions (the PIME ~)ill an lnl8rnation8l com­munity of catholic pneas and laymen who mPe a 1"-klng c:ommitment to continUing the rMaD1 of Jelus C~ In the modem world. We ltv.lie Goepelln ~Brad. Hong Kong. India. Japan, Myannw, PIP"& New Gulne*. PtiHipplnel. T.._,, n.Mand and w... Africa .mong the poor Mel unc::hun:hed. 
Founded In bly In 11150, • group of ~ ... prlella, lit the ~of 1helr bilhapa. grew in their Ulidelstalldillg ofjust PN' cisely what God was calling them to be. A mis­sionary must be ~ to dialOgue, prayer and Mlllesll8f'Vice, especially to the poor. The mis­aionary tnust learn how to be a aign of lhared ta11t1 between Mil ntablshed European and American local churches and pecp~a where the Church is juat beginning. The mlsllonary must know how to announce the Kingdom of God while being a ton:e for transformation of thoee societal valueS which do not build up that Kingdom. 
11 you are a young man betWeen 18 and 35, in good health and spirits, excited to live your faith In the rniasionary way described abOve. eend In or cal for Information today. 
'fr.JohnJ.MefU 

,_MISSIONARIES 
35750 MoravWI Dr. 

FM-.~ 
....... (31817814100 
page 6 The ObseNer Frida~ April 12,1991 
Kurdish rebels ambush Iraqi forces in Northern Iraq 
KORE, Iraq (AP) -Kurdish rebels on Thursday ambushed Iraqi troops trying to punch deeper into the mountains of northern Iraq. killing at least 12 soldiers and knocking out two tanks and an armored per­sonnel carrier. 
The rebels said two guerrillas were killed. 
The attack by Saddam Hus­sein's forces came less than 24 hours after Washington an­nounced it had warned the Baghdad government over the weekend not to launch an armed actions against Kurdish areas. 
Rebel commanders said their success against the Iraqi troops was made easier because the army had not used its deadly helicopter gunships. The U.S. warning specifically forebade the use of military aircraft. 
Meanwhile, Baghdad ex­tended an amnesty offer for some rebels, but the mass exo­dus of the Kurdish population continued. Scores of refugees, particularly babies and old people, are dying daily from exposure, malnutrition and dis­ease. 
In a mountain pass leading to 
IMMIGRAnON LAW 
PRAOICIONERS 
Pill c.kile 
GRESK S1HGlETOII 
11001·1­
.... , ••• 46m4 (317) 6'J.t.f177 
~...,..,.baa 
..ned.p ~_.. .. 
..._...pallll¥ -IS 

Iran, during one of the frequent violent storms, mothers wrapped babies and small chil­dren tightly in blankets to pro­tect them from a lashing by hail. They plodded up the steep road, drenched to the skin. 
At the ambush scene -a natural line of defense formed by a steep line of low rocky mountains -reporters counted 12 bodies of Iraqi soldiers on the road next to the damlt-ged armor. Two wounded soldiers lay on the ground, groaning in pain. 
"Damn Saddam for causing this!" said one of the Iraqis, his face half covered in blood. 
"I did not fire a shot. The of­ficers made me do it," moaned the ather. 
The rebels said they would evacuate the wounded as soon as they could find transport. 
They said rebels firing from the ridges above killed more Iraqi soldiers who tried to ad­vance along the road in a three­pronged attack at dawn. 
When reporters arrived a few hours later, the craggy ridges on either side of the road con­tinued to reverberate with can­non fire and the crash of ex­ploding shells. 
The army kept up intermittent shelling against the rebel-held mountaintops, but the shells were off target and harmlessly kicked up puffs of smoke. 
Jubilant turban-clad guerril­las flashed victory signs as they walked amid the corpses and the damaged tanks, paying no attention to the enemy fire. 
This was the second army at­tack repulsed by the rebels at the same spot. 
Reporters counted eight dead soldiers and one tank and two APCs knocked out in a rebel ambush the previous day. 
The twin rebel successes un­derscored the vulnerability of the army when it tries to ven­ture into the Kurdish mountain hinterland. 
The ambush scene is next to Kore, a village about three miles from the summer resort town of Salahuddin, the last of the lowland Kurdish main cities regained by the army from the rebels on Sunday. 
In London, Hoshyar Zebari, a spokesman for the Kurdistan Democratic Party, maintained the Iraqis were continuing to use gunships against the rebels around Salahuddin and Zakho, farther north near the Turkish border. There was no indepen­dent verification of his charge. 
Salahuddin is about 15 miles northeast of Erbil and is within the area north of the 36th par­allel where U.S. officials warned Iraqis not to interfere with refugees and efforts to aid the fleeing Kurds. 
Many of those fleeing were skeptical that the Bush admin­istration's warning to Iraq will provide them with any real pro­tection. 
"We don't trust Bush's words any more," said one refugee in Diana, a town at the bottom of the Haj Omran pass leading to Iran's border. 
"We cannot trust Saddam after what he has done to our people. We want safety for our children," said one refugee mother. 
Iraq, trying to win back the Kurds' confidence, said a gen­eral amnesty will be extended by a week for people inside Iraq and two weeks for those out­side, according to a statement by the official Iraqi News Agency monitored in Cyprus. 
The amnesty, offered this 
month and due to expire Friday, was for everyone who took part in the rebellion except "for acts of murder, rape, or theft which took place under the conditions of the incidents of rioting and treachery." 
INA said the deadline was ex­tended because of difficulties in communication and "the obsta­cles created by the aggression in the northern region of the country." 
During a reporter's journey along the pass Wednesday and Thursday, it was jammed with hundreds of thousands of refugees. Some estimates put as high as a half-million. 
A solid line of tens of thou­sands of families on foot con­tinued their trek toward Iran, undeterred by mountain storms. 
Refugees complain that no foreign refugee aid dropped in the border region reached the people in the pass. 
One man said 18 people died in his small section of the road the previous day. 



Friday, April 12, 1991 The Observer page 7 
P.E. Women discuss Technology applied to ethics 
Special to The Observer videodisc presents the famous The program is set up as a de­
background differences 
case of Dax Cowart, a victim of tective story in the context of a 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON 
News Writer 
Culture and experience met at Pasquerilla East last night as women of different ethnic backgrounds discussed their experiences in America and at Notre Dame. 
"P.E. Women Around the World" was organized by the Multicultural Committee of Pasquerilla East and Year of Women to help students under­stand what it is like to be a mi­nority at Notre Dame. 
All of the women who spoke agreed that people need to ac­cept the differences that exist among cultures and make an effort to meet people from dif­ferent backgrounds. 
Paulita Llopis and Vanessa Prado, students from El Sal­vador, feel people should try to meet those from other coun­tries. Llopis said, "This world is becoming more global. .. You can be friends with any and ev­erybody. It makes you grow so much." 
Adanna Fails, an African­American student, said that people need to respect the fact that everyone is not the same. 
Some students felt Notre Dame students do not make an effort to learn about different cultures. 
Maria Santos, a Filipino­American and one of the orga­nizers of the event, said, "Many people at Notre Dame do not show an interest in learning about who I am... I just wish there was more education about diversity in this world." She also said that the only people she can truly identify with are other Asian-Ameri­cans. 
Chhomroth Un echoed Santos' thoughts saying, "I have not found one single person who can understand me totally." 
real art world scandal that oc­curred at the end of World War 
II. 

The user must examine and weigh the evidence to determin­ing whether a given painting is in fact an original Vermeer, as claimed by the art experts, or a forgery, as claimed by Van Meegeren. 
The presentation will be from 2 to 4 p.m. in the University of Notre Dame's ETS Theater, lo­cated in the basement of the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
The event is sponsored by the Office of University Computing Services and The College of Arts and Letters as part of the Technology for Academia series. 
jail stay in the National Guard Armory, Keen said " ... a five day jail sentence is nothing in com­parison to the death sentence of an aborted child." 
"Moral neutrality doesn't ex­
ist...it can't," Hilton added. 
"If this [protest] offends, perhaps our action will move other students to make a choice, a true choice for life or death," stated Scheidler. "It is better to take a stand either way than to remain indifferent and apathetic." 
For Scheidler, Hilton and Keen such a protest was a first­time experience for them. Johnson, however, has been on five over the past year and this weekend marked her sixth protest and her sixth arrest, as well. 
If asked if they would protest in such a manner again, each student replied that they would. The group hopes that more of the student body will partici­pate. 
"If even only one-twentieth of the student body at Notre Dame had participated, the arrests would never have occurred," said Johnson. The number would have been too great for police to handle, she added. 
"It was one of the best things I have ever done," Keen said. 
Keen reminds students that "Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are dedicated to the memory of Mary, the mother of God. Mary was an unwed teen .. .imagine if she had had an abortion." 
Ask one of the 3 million Americans 
whdve 
survived 
cancer, 
if the money spent on research is worth it. 
Weare 
. . 

wtnrung. 
IAMERICAN WCANCER 'SOCIE1Y~ 
Preston Covey and Robert Cavalier, developers of Project THEORIA, will present an edu­cational program that applies computer and video technology to the study of ethics Thursday, April18. 
THEORIA stands for Testing Hypotheses in Ethics/Esthetics: Exploring the roles of Observa­tion, Rationality, Imagination and Affect. The project was developed at Carnegie Mellon University at the Center for De­sign of Educational Computing. It uses technology to immerse the user in controversial case studies. 
Two case studies will be fea­tured in the Notre Dame pre­sentation. In "A Right to Die? The Case of Dax Cowart," the severe burns, blindness and crippling injuries who persists under treatment to insist that he be allowed to die. 


Through interviews with Cowart and other principles in his case (his doctors, lawyer, mother, etc.), the user investi­gates basic ethical issues re­garding quality of life, auton­omy and competence. Throughout the case, the user must address the central dilemma-whether Dax should be granted his request to die and why. 
The second case is "Art of Forgery? The Case of Han Van Meegeren." This videodisc makes resources from muse­ums and libraries around the world accessible to the user. 
DEFENDING ~YOUR LIFE 
I I 

ALBERT BROOKS 
She also said some people think "something is wrong" with her because she holds different opinions on things such as dating and drinking. Un also said, "I think they (Notre Dame students) should be more open­minded." 
Some students said that 
coming to Notre Dame has 
helped them to recognize their 
heritage. Many of them said 
they did not feel connected with 
their particular ethnic group 
while growing up. 
Valli Vairavan, an Indian­American, said she did not feel different until she was an ado­lescent. She also said her fam­ily started an "ad hoc" demon­stration to promote peace when Indira Ghandi was killed. She said this is when she felt connected to her Indian culture. 
Fails, who attended a pre­dominantly white schools said, "Coming here has given me a different perspective on life." 
Santos said she has learned more about herself by just liv­ing around people of so many different backgrounds. 
Other students said they had taken their background for granted before coming to Notre Dame but now they want to share their culture with others.· 
Loan Tong, Vietnamese­American said she wants to take advantage of her back­ground when she moves into the workforce. 
Anita Verdugo, a Mexican­American and co-organizer of the event, said "I want to share (my Mexican-American her­itage) with others, but I almost feel that I don't know enough of it." 
is looking for people who are interested in being 
Day Editors .. for the 1991-92 school year. Must have at least one afternoon per week free. 
Contact Dennlke Simpson et 
283-4624 or 239-7471 
HEMAGE 

MIJJANT 
NIIIJA 
SIS:

TURTLES 
12:00­

n 
ffi 2:15 
CLASS EUE: 4:301 
ACTION7:oo-9:3o 

WIT1J 
E U E: 4:45-8:15 

-ub~ 
•tarring 
KEVIN S/S: 12:30 COSTNER 
. EUE: 4:30
fh 1 _B51BnCB 
7•15_9•45

of tho lambs • • 
jodie ,,. foster ® SIS: 2:00 
MERYL STREEP 
EUE: 4:45-7:30-9:45 S/S: 1:45 
Abortion 
continued from page 1 
a.m. and noon. Through the efforts of the group, it was confirmed that they prevented three abortions from occurring last Friday. It was also con­firmed that only one abortion actually took place on Friday. 
These are results that please the protestors for "20 percent of those turned away from a clinic do not return," said Johnson. 
Keen stated he is "confident that we did save a life." 
The students arrested empha­sized their belief that in abor­tions "women are the vic­tims ...they are being ex­ploited...it's a matter of money." 
Keen cited cases of false abortions where the patient was not pregnant and the abor­tions were still performed. The group also stated that an abor­tion can be performed through the ninth month of pregnancy. 
The student protestors said Operation Rescue, in an at­tempt to gain cooperation of the police, notified the authorities of Friday's protest. Conse­quently, the group was met and arrests began about an hour into the protest. 
Over 100 anti-abortion protestors were immediately processed by having their pic­tures and finger prints taken, said Scheidler. All protestors withheld their names and the group was kept together, she added. 

"Withholding our names had 
a two-fold purpose," said 
Scheidler, "it identified us with 
the nameless victims of abor­
tion and it enabled us to use 
our anonymity as a bargaining 
chip with the prosecutor's of­
fice." 

At first the prosecutor's office charged protestors with criminal trespassing and with resisting arrest and demanded an excessive bond, according to the group. The clinic's demands delayed processing until Mon­day. 
Details of the demands pre­sented to the group by the clinic were unavailable at press time, but the clinic does have the right to file a civil suit against the protestors. 
The students and other protestors were released Tues­day after giving their names, accepting probation that pro­hibits them from being on clinic property (for four months) and consenting to pay fees from their five day jail stay plus court costs. 
Protestors also had to "agree not to disagree that they had trespassed," said the group. 
"This does not imply that we are guilty ... we aren't," Johnson said. 
Scheidler offered an analogy that Operation Rescue uses in defending the group's "not guilty" plea. 
"If you see a child in a house burning, you are willing to trespass into that house to save the child and it is not consid­ered breaking the law,"said Scheidler. 
In response to their five-day 


page 8 The Observer Frida~ April 12,1991 
without qualifying conditions, 
by Iraq of resolution 687 
(1991 ), in accordance with 
Baker presents Israeli Middle East UN 
peace proposal to Syria's Assad 
DAMASCUS, Syria (AP) ­Secretary of State James Baker Ill brought Israel's proposal for a regional peace conference to Syria today after drawing a positive response from Egypt. 
Baker arrived here this after­noon and headed directly to a meeting with Tunisian Foreign Minister Al-habib Ben Yahia before a scheduled session with Syrian President Hafez Assad. 
Baker briefed the Saudi for­eign minister, Prince Saud al­Faisal, on the proposal in a meeting at a downtown Cairo hotel that lasted 2 1/2-hours, an hour longer than scheduled. 
"Fine" was the only comment an unsmiling Baker would make as he left the early morn­ing meeting for Cairo Interna­tional Airport to fly to Damas­cus. 
"Any instrument that can lead us to a peaceful solution I'm sure Egypt is willing to support," Egyptian Foreign Minister Esmat Abdel-Meguid said Wednesday night after Baker outlined the Israeli plan. 
Even separately, Saudi Arabia and Syria could push the pro­posal along or stop it dead. 
Baker will wind up his pulse-
Cabin boy lone survivor of ferry fire 
LEGHORN, Italy (AP) -A cabin boy was the only known survivor from a ferry that burst into flames after colliding with an oil tanker in thick fog, port authorities said today. At least 139 people were missing and feared dead. 
"There's little hope of finding survivors at this point," a Civil Defense spokesman told Italian radio after Wednesday night's collision some 2 1/2 miles off this northwestern port. 
The tanker also caught fire after the 10:30 p.m. collision, but all 28 of its crew members were reported safe. Port offi­cials said the tanker's crew jumped into lifeboats after fighting the flames without success. 
Rescue workers said the sea was covered by huge sheet of flame after the collision. Initial reports said the impact had opened a hole in the side of the tanker, spreading oil into the sea. 
l 
Civil DefeQse and port authorities said 72 passengers and 6 7 crew members of the 6,187-ton ferry were missing. All were believed to be Italian. 
The ferry, Moby Prince, had 
just left Leghorn for Olbia,
r 
Sardinia, and the tanker, the AGIP Abruzzo, was at anchor,
f 
port authority chief Sergio Al­
! 
I 
banese told state-run RAI-TV. The tanker is owned by the 
Italian oil company AGIP. As dawn broke and heli­copters were sent up, rescue workers reported that the fire aboard the tanker was dying out but the ferry was destroyed and there was no sign of life in the water. 
The cabin boy, who jumped into the water, was taken to a Leghorn hospital. Officials said he was in a state of shock but without serious injuries. 
"All the cabin boy could say was they (the other people aboard) all burned, he's con­vinced there's no hope," said Albanese. 
The Moby Prince is a roll-on­roll-off ferry with doors at the bow and stern. 
continued from page 1 
pay a percentage of its oil rev­enues into a U.N.-administered fund to repay damage claims against Iraq made by other countries, their citizens or cor­porations. 
Iraq capitulated in a 23-page Iraqi communique received last Saturday at U.N. Headquarters. The letter complains at great length about the "iniquitous" resolution, calling it a U.S.­Israeli plot. But it concludes by saying Baghdad "has no choice but to accept this resolution." 
Noterdaeme's reply did not remark on the Iraqi complaints. It said only that their letter "contains official notification of the acceptance, irrevocable and paragraph 33 of that reso­lution." 

Changes in the text of the let­ter recommended by legal ex­perts from various U.N. Mis­sions had delayed the official cease-fire declaration for days. 
The council was expected shortly to approve a list of na­tional contingents on a 1,440­member observer unit that will monitor the Iraq-Kuwait bor­der. 
The contingent was to include, for the first time, the five permanent members of the Se­curity Council -the United States, Britain, China, France and the Soviet Union. The peacekeeping operation is ex­pected to cost $123 million for the first year. 
taking among Arab nations Friday in Geneva when he sees Jordanian Foreign Minister Taber al-Masri. 
The Israeli proposal calls for a regional meeting of Arabs, Israelis and Palestinians under 
U.S. auspices. 
Baker immediately called for Soviet co-sponsorship, provided Moscow establishes full diplo­matic relations with Israel after a 24-year break. 
Also the talks, in the U.S. view, would be based on Israel's trading territory for peace. 
Despite a skeptical reaction from the semiofficial Egyptian press, Abdel-Meguid said "this is an idea that is very interest­ing. We will certainly discuss that very seriously, with an open mind." 
The statement after Baker had met for 90 minutes with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Abdel-Meguid gave U.S. diplomacy a measure of momentum as the Bush ad­ministration tries to set up peace talks. 
Baker called the discussion "fruitful and useful." However, he also told reporters that "the problems we are addressing are extremely difficult, they are intractable, they are of very long standing." 
Before Baker flew to Cairo from Jerusalem the Egyptian press indicated Mubarak might confront Baker with a five-point plan of his own calling for Israel to relinquish land in order to gain Arab acceptance of its existence. 
Other provisions in Mubarak's plan included a halt to new Israeli housing construction on the West Bank and in Gaza and the establishment of a Palestinian state. 
The Egyptian leader did not rule out the regional peace con­ference proposed by the Israeli government -provided it was to lead to an international con­ference. 
Israel's plan would have the conference held under U.S. auspices, preferably in Wash­ington. Palestinians would at­tend in a mixed delegation with Jordan, but not members of the Palestine Liberation Organiza­tion. 

Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health. Problem. 
Support the 

March of Dimes 
--BBIRTt«>EFECTS FOUNDATION ___ 
ThiS space contri~teq by the pub~sher 

U' .. '­

Friday, April 12, 1991 The Observer page 9 
Campus View caters to students' specific needs 
By MEREDITH McCUL· LOUGH News Writer 
Castle Point Apartments not restricted to student patrons 
reduces electric bills," he added. 
Lake also said the appliances in his unit are not always func­tional. "'We have had a lot of repairs-washer and dryer, dishwasher, even our telephone is bad," he said. 
Matteo defended Lafayette Square, saying, "several tenants have said that they really enjoyed it and were glad they had the opportunity to live there." He said that tenants were thankful for the large size of the units, the washer and dryer within each unit, as well as the proximity to the campus and nearby convenience and grocery stories. 
''I've really enjoyed it here. It's very spacious compared to campus view," said Bolger. 
Salmon said she enjoyed the fact "that we are the first tenants. The places inside look nice. Minor cosmetic problems always happen when you're the first tenant." Salmon added that she enjoyed the Lafayette Square community and found it to be the "perfect size" for an apartment complex. 
Salmon added, "There are a lot of pluses to Lafayette Square. The big plus is that each tenant can have his/her own room and still pay $10 less than at Turtle Creek." 
"'We have had a few problems with plumbing,: said Salmon. "There is really very little of­fered in maintenance at 

Lafayette Square," she said. 
Salmon attributed this to the 
fact that the management did 
not live on the premises. 
Because of this, Salmon said, 
"we've had to deal with 
{maintenance problems) our­
selves." 
Gilchrist said she has many 
complaints about the quality of 
the townhomes in their first 
year. "The apartments are su­
per cheap. The stairs leading 
to the basement are just 
boards. One of them broke. 
There is one coat of paint in the 
basement and the plywood is 
showing through," she said. 
She cited problems with paint, air-conditioning, and ap­pliances in the units. "The walls are painted in the cheapest paint ... There is a difference of 15 degrees from the basement to the top floor ... The washer and dryer were broken," Gilchrist said. 
"The doors are on crooked. Some friends in our complex had to cut the bottom of a door so it would close." she claimed. 
Gilchrist said she does not feel she is getting her money's worth at Lafayette Square. "We're paying $950 a month for the bedrooms. It's not worth it at all." 
Budde also expressed con­cern with the general structure of the facilities. "I don't want to knock his (Matteo) apartments, but there are definitely problems with the mainte­nance," Budde added. 
But Budde remains optimistic about living in Lafayette Square. "The little problems don't really bother us. We're just glad to be off-campus. 
to two vehicles and every three­
bedroom appartment can have 
up to three vehicles. 
Also, a covered carport is 
available for $17 extra a month. 
"There is plenty of room to 
park," said Bentz. He said that 
sometimes at night he has to 
park around the back, but even 
that is not a long walk. 
Leasing at Castle Point works out very well for student living, according to Scholar. Apartments are leased for six months, and then are continued on a month to month basis. 
Residents have a choice of eight different floor plans. The Moritz and the Matterhorn, which have two bedrooms, two and a half bathrooms and a loft are the most popular designs and the most difficult to attain. 
Since these spacious ap­partments are often more dif­ficult to find, Scholar said that some students lease right through the summer just to ensure keeping a larger ap­partment. 
Included with the rent is water sewage and trash .re­moval. Electricity must be ob­tained by the tennant, although a budget plan is available upon request. 
Scholar said that since Castle Point has been around for such a long time, it is familiar with the needs of its residents. She said that the complex is proud of the work it has done and feels it gives "more appartment and more lifestyle for the dollar." 
There's all kinds of room," he said. "We feel it is still cheaper than living on-campus," he said. 
Budde also praised the social aspects of living in Lafayette Square. "We have some of the best parties here," he said. 
Matteo said that in spite of the problems voiced by stu­dents, he feels that the complex is making strides to make pos­itive changes. "You start out with a program, and if things work, you keep with it. We've taken the time to clarify certain (lease) rules and responsibili­ties," said Matteo. 
"There's a period of time when you discover glitches. At this time ... we're putting rail­ings along porches. At the end of the year we'll go through and rehabilitate the units-repaint, clean, screen," he said. 
Matteo graduated from Notre Dame in 1988, at which time he "realized that there was need for more (off-campus) student housing," he said. Matteo drew upon previous construction ex­perience when taking advan­tage of the opportunity in South Bend. Matteo had been president of the Taripp Corpo­ration, a private construction company, since age 17. 
Matteo sold out his interest in the Taripp Corporation in 1989, then bought the land and built Lafayette Square Townhomes. Although he has since sold his ownership, he remains manager of the complex. 
t 
( 
; page 10 The Observer 
i, 
l l 
t Turtle Creek apartment complex lures l faculty and students for over 20 years 
By SIOBHAN MCCARTHY News Writer 
Turtle Creek apartments have been a popular off-campus housing choice among the 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's fac­ulty and student community for more than twenty years. 
Manager Claire Meyers hopes this tradition won't change. 
Located just northeast of both schools at 1710 Turtle Creek Drive, Turtle Creek is a little more than a ten-minute walk for residents, which Meyers says students and faculty find convenient and safe. 
Studio, one and two-bedroom, as well as townhouse apartment sizes are available within a price range of $375 to $515 per month. Costs are rea­sonable, according to resident and ND graduate student Jay Hosler. 
"Rent went up only seven dol­lars this year," he said. 
Water, sewage and trash re­moval costs are included in the monthly rent payments. Resi­dents pay for their own electric and phone bills. 
Turtle Creek also features a 24-hour maintenance service hot-line. 
Hosler said he finds the ser­vice quick and dependable. When his screen door lock was broken, Turtle Creek mainte­nance responded immediately, he said, and "fixed it in a day." 
Corinne Pavlis, a Saint Mary's senior, said she finds the service equally dependable. When she had plumbing problems, the landlord came on a Sunday night with a repairman. 
She added that she has needed fewer repairs living in 
Campus 
continued from page 9 
Limardo said, "They're pretty good about it as long as you keep the noise down and make sure no one gets out of control. Because you live with students no one really complains." 
Muszer added, "We've been around a long time and have learned how to handle (party) situations." 
As a means of security, Cam­pus View has hired a roaming guard to watch over the apartments and residents. This precaution is "for the students' welfare," said Muszer. 
Security is always around, according to Sabin. She said that at night the guard rattles the doors to make sure they are locked. Also, the management tries to put all of the women on the second floor. 
Turtle Creek than she did when she lived in Campus View last year. 
Laundry facilities are located in a clubhouse with a television, lounge and an area to study. The laundry facilities are "very safe," said Pavlis, again com­paring Turtle Creek with her former residence. 
"At Campus View, laundry was just sitting out in the open," she said. "You can't get attacked in our (Turtle Creek) laundry room. Here it's part of the main office," where intrud­ers can easily be seen. 
Hosler said he found the loca­tion of the washers and dryers to be "an inconvenience," but said he "could live with it." 
Security is often a concern of off-campus students, but Mey­ers assures residents that Tur­tle Creek is a safe complex. "We're in a real good part of South Bend," she said. 
Resident Benjamin Phillips agreed. "The security hasn't been that bad," said the Notre Dame senior. 
However, Pavlis said that she feels that the community. and not a particular complex, is re­sponsible for the security prob­lem off-campus. "I was attacked on my way back from aerobics at 8 p.m. on a Monday night," Pavlis said. 
"I don't think it's safe. but it's not the fault of Turtle Creek," she said. "South Bend isn't the safest community. Not all of it is dangerous, but some parts are and I think that students need to face that." 
Parking concerns are also on the minds of off-campus stu­dents, and Turtle Creek offers students a combination of 
Sabin said that once she and her three roommates were bothered by a "peeping Tom," but security took care of the problem. 
As for parking, Muszer said "there is enough for every­body." 
Limardo agreed. "It's a little difficult on football weekends, but even then it's not that bad at all." 
A number of facilities are available for the students' recreational enjoyment. The complex provides a heated pool, a jacuzzi, a weight room and tennis, volleyball and basketball courts. The facilities are "really nice to have during the warmer weather," said Bowes. 
Campus View also provides a maintenance service which has received high acclaim by resi­dents. "They are out there that day or the next," said Bowes. "They're really good about it." 
Sabin, who has experienced unusual problems concerning guaranteed and open parking. 
Residents are guaranteed one spot per apartment in a desig­nated carport area, and there are also plenty of other spaces available nearby, according to Meyers. Parking spaces are also roped off during football season, ensuring residents that fans will not take over parking spots, Hosler said. 
Hosler. Pavlis and Phillips all found the facilities to be well­built and well-maintained. Pavlis attributed this to the fact that Turtle Creek serves a more adult community, including both faculty and students. 
"People around here are a lot more respectful of each other," than at other complexes, she said. "They're just considerate." 
Parties at Turtle Creek are allowed, Meyers said, but if the office receives a complaint about noise a warning letter is sent out to the resident the next day. 
If a resident is cited for a loud party a second time, he/she will be evicted, she said. 
Hosler said he hasn't had any problems with the noise at Tur­tle Creek. "It doesn't bother me," he said, "It just makes me more jealous than angry when other people are having a good time." 
Phillips agreed. "We've had no problems at all." he said. The management has been "pretty cool" about parties, he added. 
Pavlis added that she felt the community at Turtle Creek was very "homelike ... The landlady even sends out a monthly newsletter with recipes in it and everything. We love her." 
earthworms finding their way into her apartment and a bro­ken hot water heater, reported that "repairs are done pretty quick ... usually that day." 
The complex offers either a two-bedroom apartment (for two, three or four people) or a one-bedroom apartment (for one or two people). 
Two-bedroom apartments are leased for nine months, from the weekend before classes begin to graduation time, while one-bedroom apartments are leased for twelve months. During the summer, a short­term lease for two-bedrooms is available to all, whether students or not. 
With a prime location and other features which are at­tractive to students, Campus View has been an important source of off-campus housing. "It's the perfect college apart­ment," said Limardo. 
Friday, April 12, 1991 


euui f44d ~· 
-LESSONS 

241 DIXIE WAY N-US JJ (OLD Jll 
one mile north of ) ( 
St. Mary's College Roseland 


GUITARS. AMPS MON-FRI.12:00NOON-6pmCALLforSAT.hours 
CRATE-ALVAREZ-YAMAHA I 272-7510 I
WESTONE-TAYLOR . . 
DICK WlSNER · OWNER 


We're just minutes from Notre Dame, University Park Mall, the toll road and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community with spacious, well-kept 
grounds has a lot of appeal to the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­gency maintenance service . . . and we have an activities program that includes free aerobics classes, social functions, team sports and much, 
much more. If you're looking for the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we'll show you comfortable, affordable apartment living! 
Efficiencies from $270 -featuring ­1-Bedrooms from $285 • P;anned Activities Program 2-Bedrooms from $345 + Beautiful Clubhouse &Pool 
+ Air Condnioning + Cable TV Available 
+ Disposal • Laundry Rooms272-1880 + Basketball Court 
• Picnic Tables & Grills 
Office Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9-7, • Volleyball Court + Gazebo Sat. 10-4 and Sun. 12-4 • 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance Service 
•Ask about the Hickory Village Summer Breeze ... 
the easy and economical way to keep your apartment '--1hrough the summer and still go home. 
+UCKORij f! VlLLA(3E 
Conveniently located on Hickory Road, just north of Edison Road 
American Red Cross+  15 NO.APPLICATION FEE! Save $15 when you apply for an apartment at Hickory Village. Just present this coupon to the leasing agent and the $15 application fee will be waived. Expires smst 15  
~travelmore ~Car\son Trcl'Je\ Networkno ntn o AP R I L ff., 1 9 911723 South Bend Avenve Nextto frank's f'ed Hots9AM-2PM nr OTKr Anr II WIN AIRLINE TICICITS, Pill GifTS AND MORE!! Pnone.: 21 I -4880  

Viewpoint
Friday, April 12, 1991 page 11 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ...............David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

tt 1WA£ 'T~INKING /lfOJT SON'£THING BG:FORf nu; WfJR efGAN AND NCW I OOT ~WAAT ITWAS....'' 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
For the past three years, the ignorance and apathy that permeates this campus has never ceased to amaze me. That is... until now. Recent events here at Notre Dame have proven to me that just because a person has mastered the realm of academia does not necessarily mean that he or she possesses any common sense. For those of you who may not be familiar with what common sense is, allow me to explain-or, better yet, let me give you an example of what it is not: the choices made by The Observer Staff. 
In its recent April Fool's Day publication, The Observer staff showed a definite lack of sensi­tivity and judgment in a picture that it chose to print on page four. This photograph illus­trated a white police officer ex­erting a choke-hold on a black male. I find it appalling that, in light of recent events in Los Angeles involving the brutal beating of a black motorist by several white police officers, The Observer would choose to use a picture of violence in South Africa to fulfill their need to joke about future SUDS raids. 
This April Fool's Day edition went on to further insult such groups as SUFR, the Gay/Lesbian group, and the women of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's. I don't think that there was one article that failed to smear the group SUFR and belittle their concerns. Needless to say, the "Year of Women-Schedule of Events" featured in the edition was ex­tremely sexist and male-chau­vinistic. 
Even though all of this was supposed to be a joke, it didn't 
DOONESBURY 
Special issue is offensive 
take much to discern the under­lying bigotry, racism, and prej­udice that was present. It is more than obvious that many of the students here at Notre Dame don't appreciate or wel­come the presence of some (or all) of these groups on campus. But they are here, and they de­serve the same respect and op­portunity to share in 'the great Notre Dame experience' as anyone else. Now, don't get me wrong; I have an excellent sense of humor. However, I failed to find any amusement concerning these topics. When The Observer was unable to find true humor, they resorted to race, homosexuality, and gender in order to buy cheap laughter. Through this insult and degradation, The Observer merely sent struggling groups here at Notre Dame two steps back after their one step for­ward. They also encourage the administration, with its appar­ent lack of genuine concern, to not take these people seriously. 
So, go ahead, make fun of Digger and du Lac, for both of them have been here since the beginning of time and will re­main here until Notre Dame fails to exist. And be sure to continue to criticize Ricky Watters, for, just like Rocket, he will soon be rid of this place, making money that you only dreamed of. 
Therefore, I suggest that The Observer staff recognize the re­sponsibility that they have as students of this university and use better judgment in its future publications. And this is not censorship, it's merely a matter of using common sense. 
Tish S. Powell Siegfried Hall April 9, 1991 

·~~VI~'FHYSIC/IW PHCNP NIWct70 54YH£R W1PtNT5~ AMR38 fOI?. mx&N£5. 'NAN&Y 54/tJ, ''ARE YaJVVWIK7 TO mrFOR 
fTf If-'!W t£1/WT 70 PtiTA 7HPV rovU.HAVb 7011lY 
Dear Editor: 
We are deeply concerned about the issues of racism and cultural diversity on the Notre Dame campus. We believe that the student coalition known as SUFR (Students United For Re­spect) has provided the University community with an important opportunity for a discussion of these pressing 
Dear Editor: 
Last year a task force of se­niors met with Mary Ann Roe­mer at the Center for Social Concerns to begin a new tradi­tion here at Notre Dame. The group's goal was to organize a "commissioning ceremony" for all graduating seniors who had made the decision to devote a year or more to volunteer work. This goal became a reality and the first ceremony took place 

Professors support dialogue 
Commissioning ceremony at graduation 
Brave act praised by onlookers 
issues. 
The existence of any and all forms of racism runs counter to the mission of the University just as cultural diversity serves to fulfill that mission. There­fore, we urge the University to work with SUFR and the rest of the University community and to take clear, strong, visible steps to address the issues they raise. 
last year's graduation weekend. 
Many of the seniors who par­ticipated in last year's ceremony commented that it added a special dimension to graduation weekend. Some also com­mented that the ceremony calmed their parents' anxieties about their decision to volun­teer. Overall, the event proved to be a great success. 
A committee of students has been meeting regularly to plan 
James 0. Bellis, Anthropology Gerald Berk Gov. & lnt'l Studies Joseph Buttigleg, English David Rucclo, Economics Lynne Wozniak Gov. & lnt'l Studies John Kennedy, Jr. Computing Marcia Sawyer, History April 4, 1991 

this year's commissioning cer­emony. As previously men­tioned, this ceremony is open to all graduating seniors who are volunteering after graduation. Please register at the Center for Social Concerns as soon as possible so that you and your family can participate in the volunteer send-off ceremony. 
Robert F. Pasin Alumni Hall April 9, 1991 
Dear Editor: 
On Monday night, April 8, we witnessed an act of bravery unparalleled in our lifetimes. A 5'10" male, wearing tan shorts and a blue polo shirt, proceeded to retrieve an ailing basketball from the clutches of the Gruesome Grace Hall Goose, which was unrightfully defend­ing its nested young. The nerve of such a foul creature! In an act of rage the goose let out a thundering battle cry (quack) and spread its wings in an act of defiance. . 

Seeing his sole chance for survival, a slim one at that, our fearless hero sprung to action. Hurling the ball at the savage beast, he delivered a severe blow to the "antagonist." Sweet victory was his! We need more courageous men like this warrior to fight off the ad­vancements of the animal king­dom into humankind's legiti­mate domain. This man should definitely go down in history among the ranks of the Found­ing Fathers of this great nation. 
P.S. Oh brave conqueror, could you muster up enough fight in you to free this campus of the wild squirrel infestation? 
Ken McGrath Brett Wujek Jaime Ruiz Grace Hall April 8, 1991 


H£1?£At0/o/e NITHTHIS/  'It takes two to tango, but only  
\  one to put the music on.'  
J.D.P.  
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556  

I ( 
I 
I 
l 1 
I 
/ 
' f { l ' 
( 
j 
f 
l 
' 
1 
I I
'· 

t
~ . 
\ 

"Study of a Ballet Dancer" by Edgar Degas is one of the 78 drawings featured in the collection donated by John Reilly, a1963 graduate of ND. The works will be on display at the Snite beginning Sunday. 
APRIL 5-7 

weekend calendar 
MUSIC 

P.S. Dump your Boyfriend, Shenanigan's, 10:00 p.m. 
Tartar Gun, McCormick's, 10:00 p.m. Chronic Desire, Alumni-Senior Club, 10:00 p.m. 
EVENTS 

Ice Capades, JACC, 10:30 a.m. &7:30 p.m. Volleyball Tournament, JACC Fieldhouse, 7:00p.m. 
sa 


MUSIC 

After Hours, Center Street Blues, 9:30 p.m. seamatsln, Ctub 23, 10:00 p.m. Sonic Yin Rock, Grace Coffeehouse, 10:00 p.m. 
P.S. Dump your Boyfriend, Shenanigan's 10:00 p.m. 
EVENTS Ice Capades, JACC, 11 :30 a.m., 3:30 &7:30 p.m. Recital, Cellist Susan Tephly, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's, 8:00p.m. The Nazz, Stepan Center, 7:00p.m. 
s y 
EVENTS 

Concert, NO Chorale & South Bend Symphony, Sacred Heart Church, 8:00p.m. Vocal Recital, Soprano Mimi Brennan, Moreau Hall Little 
Theatre, Saint Mary's, 2:30 p.m. 

FRIDAY "Reversal of Fortune," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45p.m. "Pump Up the Volume," Cushing Auditorium, 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 

"Reversal of Fortune," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. Cartoon Night Cushing Auditorium, 8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
"Mr. and Mrs. Bridge," 7:00 & 9:30p.m. "The Perfect Weapon," 7:10 & 9:10p.m. "Dances with Wolves," 8:15p.m. "The Doors," 8:00 p.m. "New Jack City," 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. "The 5 Heartbeats," 7:15 & 9:40p.m. 
Try a taste of Hawaii 
By MELISSA COMER Accent Writer 

E 
scape to the land of pineapple, tropical drinks, colorful floral shirts, leis, and women in long grass skirts gracefully swaying their hips without ever leaving South Bend. Discover the beauty and the culture of Hawaii without travelling any further than South Dining Hall. Now, is that an offer or what? 
That is exactly the opportu­nity that the Notre Dame Hawaiian Club is offering the people of South Bend as they sponsor the 1991 annual luau this Saturday night. A chance to experience the culture of Hawaii, the luau features au­thentic and homemade Hawai­ian food, traditional and mod­ern Hawaiian dance, free leis, and live entertainment. 
In celebration of the Year of Women, this year's theme for the luau is "He Inoa No Wahine," meaning "In the Name of Woman." The enter­tainment for the evening cele­brates various women in Hawaiian history. 
The evening is scheduled to begin with the sharing of a tra­ditional Hawaiian meal, a meal which includes everything from Kalua Pig to chocolate cake. At this all-you-can-eat feast, poi, a Hawaiian staple made from taro root, and Haupia, a co­conut dessert, will be served as part of the midwestern intro­duction to the Hawaiian cul­ture. For the less adventurous palate, there will also be chicken teriyaki, rice, and of course, pineapple. 

In addition to all the food, the luau will feature Hula, the por­trayal of ancient Hawaiian songs through dance. Two dif­ferent forms of Hula will be performed, both the traditional Kahiko and the more modern, Auwana. Members of the Hawaiian Club will perform all of the dances, but audience participation is welcome during certain dances for those who care to truly experience for themselves a bit of the Hawai­ian culture. 
"Basically, the purpose of the luau is to bring a taste of au­thentic Hawaiian culture to the 
people of Notre ~ Dame and South 
r rr~ 

Bend," said co-chairper-· son, Bernard Nunies. The 25 active club members help bring a part of their culture to South Bend by making it a little more like the culturally diverse atmo­sphere that they are 
accustomed to in Hawaii. 

Preparing all of the food and performing all of the dances themselves, the members make Hawaiian culture come alive through the luau. "The luau is the culmination of all of the activities in the Hawaiian Club. Everything leads to this event," explained Nunies. 
The Hawaiian clubs at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, Marquette University, Purdue University, and perhaps Northwestern University are expected to be present to share in the luau with the members of the South Bend community. 
The luau begins at 7:00 p.m. in South Dining Hall on Saturday, April 13. Tickets are on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk for $5. Experience a taste of Hawaii. 
Appreciate new sights 
By AL PISA Accent Writer 

hile people often refer to "the luck of the Irish" w h e n 
speaking of the Notre Dame football team, it seems that this same good fortune is also shared by other members of the Notre Dame community. 
Such is the case with the Snite Museum of Art which will exhibit seventy-eight drawings from the Reilly Collection be­ginning on April 14. The collec­tion is made possible through the generosity of John Reilly, a member of the Class of 1963. 
The museums' chief curator, Stephen Spiro, explains that he first became acquainted with Reilly six years ago while Reilly was on a tour of the museum. 
"At the time Mr. Reilly ex­pressed interest in purchasing a painting for the museum in remembrance of his mother who had passed away," said Spiro. 
Soon afterwards Reilly in­quired about the possibility of forming a collection. The mu­seum received such an opportu­nity when a collection of fine works of Italian and French origin, belonging to a private collector who had died, were offered to the museum on the condition that it found a bene­




at Snite 
factor to purchase it. Spiro contacted Reilly and the Reilly Col!Pction began. 
Since that time. the collection has grown to 235 works repre­
senting major 19th centm y artists su'ch as Girodet, Pis­sarro, and Degas and having French, Italian, German, and English origins. 
Spiro believes the 78 draw­ings that will be shown at the Snite will change the miscon­ception that many people have of drawings as simply black and white sketches. "The drawings range from highly finished works to sketches," stated Spiro. "They are done using a variety of mediums and styles." 
The collection continues to grow. filling in gaps or expand­ing into new areas, under the direction of both Spiro and Mary Frisk, the assistant cura­tor. As an example of this ex­pansion, Spiro points to a piece done by William Blake which was recently acquired from an English art dealer. 
Spiro is quick to point out that this continually growing collection would not be possible without the support of Reilly. "The museum itself could not afford to put together such a collection on its own; we simply do not have the budget to do it. We are fortunate to have someone like Mr. Reilly who shows such an interest in these fine works." 
I I I · \ 1 

Soar with dance of the ages 
By MONICA TSETHLIKAI 
Accent Writer 
,, 

hen a 
gifted 
people 
a r e 
given 
n o 
place in the present, they dream of the past, they scheme for the future, and for the moment, dance the dances that have sustained their people for generations. They dance resolutely, persistently, pas­sionately, and for a while the participants rise above the earth and the odds." says Thomas E. Mails. 
The dance of this passionate present which rises above the present will be exemplified in a "Pow Wow" sponsored by the Native American Student Organization at Stepan Center on this Sunday from 12:00 to 7:00p.m. 
A Pow Wow is a gathering of people to celebrate Native American dances and social customs. Native Americans dress in the outfits that are traditional for their tribes and participate in tribal dancing. 
The dancers are accompanied by one or more "Drums." which are composed of several singers, who rhythmically beat a drum (the actual instrument) as they sing. The dancers dance in a circle with the Drums in the center. The circle is repre­sentative of the Sacred Hoop, the symbol of life. While many other civilizations think of life as a straight line, Native Amer­icans view life as a circle. 
Another integral part of the Pow Wow is the giveaway. Gift giving is symbolic of Native American culture. Rather than hoarding ones wealth, it is con­
\ ( 
• 

sidered more enjoyable to share it. In such a way the Pow Wow gives Native Americans the chance to reflect on and celebrate their heritage. 
The songs and chants of the Pow Wow each have a signifi­cant meaning. Originally, songs were sung in the language of the singers; however, as more tribes came together, the use of vocables came about. Vocables are words considered only as a combination of certain sounds without regard to meaning. 
The vocables allowed singers of various languages to sing together. They also allow those tribes who have lost their na­tive language the chance to sing in the old way. Songs are still sung in the native tongue of many tribes, but Pow Wows usually consist of songs sung in vocables due to the many dif­ferent tribes who come to the celebration. 
One of the most important songs is the Flag song. It is sung at the beginning of each Pow Wow by the host Drum. The Flag song is equivalent to the National Anthem, therefore, it is required that everyone stand for it. 
Each Pow Wow dance is lead by the "Head Dancers," one fe­male and one male. The Head Dancers start each song and lead the rest of the dancers throughout the Pow Wow. It is a high honor to be selected as a Head Dancer. They must know all of the songs and the appro­priate dances that accompany these songs. 
There is also a "Head Vet­eran Dancer" who has been dis­tinguished in combat and has the honor of carrying the Indian Flag at the front of the procession of dancers during Grand Entry. 
1 ·''' 
!r... < ,-:,,11'' 

The dancing is started with the "Grand Entry," a procession of all the dancers present. The Head Dancers lead followed by Native American Royalty and then the rest of the dancers arranged according to age. This procession is designed to show respect for elders and leaders. 
The names of each of the va­riety of dances will be an­nounced prior to their perfor­mances by the M.C. One of the most enjoyable dances is the Rabbit Dance, or Two-Step. The Rabbit Dance is a dance in which everyone can participate. The women choose their part­ners and it used to be that if the man refused he had to pay a penalty to the rejected asker. 
During the dance the couples hold hands as they are lead by the Head Dancers through a number of intricate maneuvers. Although these moves may be a bit intimidating, the main pur­pose is to have fun. 
Notre Dame's Pow Wow will also feature performances by the Black Hawk Dance Troupe, children dancers from age 12 to 
18. They will perform some South West dances. They are an added feature to this years Pow Wow and offer an oppor­tunity to partake in a unique experience.. 
There will also be Native American arts and crafts traders presenting their goods. Everything from turquoise and silver jewelry to beaded bar­rettes and necklaces will be of­fered for sale. Whether buying or browsing, everyone can ad­mire the intricate handiwork of the artists. 
From singing and dancing to arts and crafts, the Pow Wow offers an excellent opportunity to experience Native American culture firsthand. 
1 1 11ftll

,!',: i.' ~· ·' ~--·.:,.> .
,' I·,,(, . f______ , -~t..>­
I 

..... __. .--.. -~~~~.,.._-.....'-....-----­
-~--~----·-------·-------·--... · -____ _..... 
\)QI'>lfo~.) ,.,••.-M-nnl• ,1-.;tiiJ&:~O..; •. 
I • ; , . i I, ..• ,J I .• ·' I I
-,' . 

page 14 The Observer 
Look for a patch of blue above the snowline 
Father Robert Griffin 
In his autobiography, "God, Country, Notre Dame," Father Hesburgh wrote of Cardinal Carter, the primate of Canada. As an auxiliary bishop, Carter was asked to write the Cana­dian Bishops Commission's Re­sponse to Paul VI's encyclical, "Humanae Vitae," which took a very conservative line on artifi­cial birth control. 
"Basically, the Canadian re­sponse was that Catholics ought to read and seriously consider what the Holy Father had to say; but if after reading the encyclical they felt they could not, in conscience, follow it, they should not feel that they were less Christian or that they could not receive the sacra­ments. That was a far-out posi­tion for many bishops outside of Canada." 
Carter told Father Hesburgh that not long after that, when he went to Rome to see the Pope, he was really expecting to be called down on his outspo­ken article. "When he and the pontiff were alone, he decided to broach the subject rather than sit there wondering when the Pope would. 'Holy Father, I suppose you were rather upset by that statement on "Humanae Vitae" that I prepared for the Canadian hierarchy?' 
'No, I was not upset at all, Paul VI responded. 'I said what I had to say as Pope and you said what you felt you had to say as pastors to your own people. I take it that you re­spect me and are not upset by what I had to say as Pope and I respect you and am not upset by what you had to say as pas­tors to your people."' 


campus ministers to recognize 
their presence on campus. 
After talking with gays for nearly two decades, I finally heard, I think-with the help of Bill Storey-what the gays were saying. It sounded something like this, "The negative stereo­types of gays that Notre Dame reflects back to gays is killing us. A very large percentage of teenage suicides occur among gays who have been taught to hate themselves as freaks and sickies. If the only place we can find acceptance is in the gay bars in the fast lane of the ci­ties, death will take some of us while we're still young." 
In honesty, gays sound more upbeat about themselves, and less maudlin then this. Like the rest of us, they are people needing people with whom they can be friends. 

Storey talks about high school students who become aware of their orientation at adolescence. They wait for high school to be over so that they can escape the ugly jokes that they have to suffer in silence. Coming to Notre Dame, where wisdom should prevail, they soon discover the scene, for them, is a lot like high school. That's when some of them start to get the look of pain in their eyes from the pain they feel in­side every day. 
Notre Dame is not in business to sponsor a civil rights move­ment for gays. Gays didn't come to Notre Dame to hold shootouts with the Administra­tion demanding their rights. Why, when older gays try to help young gays, do pastorally­concerned people attempt to 
poison the well? 

"Don't come out of the closet . to anyone who isn't a profes­
sional." Isn't that cruel advice, 
coming fr.om a Christian? Isn't 
it wicked to tell a student that 
he shouldn't even trust the 
members of his own minority 
group? Gays come to Notre 
Dame, looking for a chance to 
grow up beautiful; if all our ad­
vice to them is negative, we cut 
them off at the pass. 
All I am saying is, "Give gays 
a chance." Certainly they de­
serve as much consideration as 
the students who are offended 
by smoking. Maybe Father 
Malloy should appoint a task 
force on the Christian educa­
tion of the gay minority. 
In helping students who find 
themselves taking the less-trav­
elled road, Notre Dame can 
only go part of the way with 
them; but Notre Dame doesn't 
walk any of its graduates 
through life's big decisions. We 
shouldn't allow gays to leave 
here believing themselves to be 
children of the lesser gods-be­
lieving that the Catholic Church 
considers them to be the bad 
seed. 
Gays, for centuries, have been 
the Church's throwaway chil­
dren. Couldn't a University that 
is sensitive toward its gays talk 
to the bishops who talk to 
Rome about the pastoral prob­
lems of gays whom it would be 
a sin to alienate? 
Ministry takes place on many levels; maybe there are times the underlings who serve on the grass-roots level should offer their insights to the top bananas in charge of the flock. 

letters to a lonely God 
On rainy mornings, I look for 
a patch of blue in the sky which 
leads me to hope for a change 
in the weather. Paul's response 
to the statement on birth con­
trol offers hope, like a patch of 
blue sky, that in the Church 
with strict rules love, compas­
sion, sympathy, and under­
standing exist in abundance in 
the climes above the snow-line. 
Priests who hear confessions understand that mercy is re­quired of them when sinners enter the box to ask for absolu­tion. The confessor who throws the book at a penitent shouldn't expect to see that penitent soon again. Tough love in the home may be just what the doctor ordered; tough love in the con­fessional may be about as wise as throwing a hand grenade at a cripple, because the priest has no way of knowing how his tough love will be perceived. 
I realize that the Pope had no intention of setting pastors at odds with the official teachers, or of opening gaps that would look to highly permissive Catholics like the freedom trail; yet it helps to know that Catholics who sharply dissent with the official morality can be allowed-in the privacy of their own lives-to follow their con­sciences. 
One must take care, I sup­pose, as a teacher, not to up­stage the Church's magisterium in a public way, as though one's dissent with the magisterium could be offered as caviar to the general. 
Paul VI told the Cardinal, "I said what I had to say as Pope. You said what you felt you had to say as pastors." May I shyly suggest there is an analogy here which could help gay Catholics at this University feel a little bit less like non-per­sons? Imagine Notre Dame telling Cardinal Ratzinger: "As a defender of the Faith, you've said what you had to say to Catholic homosexuals. Now the campus ministers at Our Lady's school would like to say what they need to say to gay students at Notre Dame, trying to save their souls as Catholics." 
Notre Dame has just launched a committee to formulate an official opinion on smoking. I expect that when the committee makes its final re­port, smokers will lose their right to exist. If that happens, they will survive, if necessary, in the underground. If, as an adult consenting to my own demise, I should smoke alone, or with another, in the privacy of my bedroom, should it be anybody's business but my own? 
If the University can take time out to lay down guidelines for smokers, couldn't it also take time out to find ways of being more supportive of gays? Twenty years ago, gay students asked, for the first time, for 
DART COURSE CHANGES CLOSED SECTIONS AS OF ENGL 491 01 2824 7:00P.M. 4/11191 ENGL 4958 01 2826 

ACCT 487 01 3397 should be 1.0 credit hours 
LAW 501 03 3399 Torts 13 cr. hrs.,
FIN 462 01 1080 
AL 421 01 0083 should be "Permission Required" MWF 11:00-11:50
ACCT 372 01 0296 FIN 473 01 1084 
BIOS 103 01 2416 NOT "Permission Required" 
LAW 691A 01 3398 lntro to Classical
ACCT 475 03 0301 FIN 478 01 1085 
BIOS 195 01 2417 NOT "Permission Required" 
Roman Law, 2 cr. hrs.,

ACCT 475 04 0302 GOVT 342T 02 2366 
CE 446 01 0629 Prerequisite should be 
T 04:00·06:00

ACCT 476 02 2371 GOVT 401 01 2851 
CE 256 or CE 266 PHIL 241 01 3395 Ethics 3 cr. hrs.,
ACCT 479 01 0307 GOVT 472 01 2870 
CE 452 01 0632 new time: 08:00-09:15 T H 
T H 02:45-04:00

AERO 444L 01 0316 GSC 430 01 3218 
CHEM 201 01 0675 should be "Permission Required'' 
PHIL 241 02 3396 Ethics 3 cr. hrs.,
AERO 444L 02 0317 GSC 480Z 01 3227 
CHEM 201 01 0676 should be "Permission Required" T H 04:15-05:30
AERO 444L 03 0318 HIST 392 01 2911 
CSE 467 01 3103 new time: 11:00-12:15 T H 
PSY 642 01 3367 Infant Development
AERO 444L 04 0319 HIST 394 01 1203 
EE 498C 01 3346 new time: 01:15-02:30 
and Disfunction, 3 cr.

AERO 446L 01 0322 LAW 631A 01 1286 
(lab times TBA) T H hrs., F09:30-12:00
AERO 446L 02 0323 LAW 6318 01 1287 
EE 453 01 0866 new time: 11:15-12:05 M W F 
PSY 650 01 3368 Adulthood and Aging
AERO 446L 04 0325 LAW 631D 01 1289 
EE 598A 01 0245 new time: 09:30-10:45 T H 
3 cr. hrs.

AFAM 260 01 3263 LAW 633 01 1295 
EE 598J 01 3345 new time: 11:00-12:15 T H 
ROFR 310 03 3407 Textural Analysis, 3 cr.
AFAM 368 01 3265 LAW 695 01 1300 
ENGL 109 28 0995 new time: 11:00-12:15 T H 
hrs., 02:45-04:00 T H 

AFAM 371 01 3273 LAW 695 02 1301 
ENGL 109 29 0996 new time: 04:15-05:30 T H 
STV 371 01 3384 Nature in America,
AFAM 374 01 3266 LAW 695 03 1302 
FS 180 1 9 11 07 new days: 01 :15-02:30 M W 
3 cr. hrs., TH 01:15­

AFAM 455 01 3269 LAW 695 04 1303 
GOVT 343 01 1166 new days: 10:10-11:00 M W 
02:30; cross-list

ANTH 450 01 2736 LAW 695 05 1304 
GOVT 343 02 1022 new days: 11:15-12:05 M W 
with AMST 371

ARST 133S 01 0434 LAW 695 06 3356 
GOVT 441 01 2867 new time: 01:15-02:05 M W F 
BA 362 01 0504 MARK 492 01 2520 
HIST 353 01 2909 NOT "Permission Required"; should be
BA 391 01 0212 Ml 308 01 2501 
"Majors only thru 3rd period, then open to all"
BA 391 02 0211 Ml 432A 01 2956 
HIST 471 01 3366 should be "Majors only thru 3rd period,
BA 391 03 2223 MUS 220 01 2959 then open to allBA 490 04 0514 MUS 220 02 2960 
LAW 638 01 3357 new time: 12:30-01:20
BA 490 05 0515 MUS 221 01 2122 LAW 511 01 3352 new time: 03:00-03:50 and 04:00-04:50 
COURSES CANCELLED
BA 490 06 0516 MUS 223 01 2961 
LAW 511 02 3353 new time: 03:00·03:50 and 04:00-04:50
CHEG 459 02 0650 MUS 226 01 1557 
MBA 644 01 0231 should be "Permission Required" ECON 625 01 0814
CLAS 328 01 2699 PHIL 220 01 2976 
Ml 621 01 2557 new time: 09:30-12:00 T EE 498H 01 3348
COTH 351 01 3184 PHIL 231 01 2980 
MUS 503 01 2968 should be 1 cr. hr MARK 231 09 1314
COTH 478 01 3187 PHIL 246 01 1672 
PHYS 205 01 2536 new starting & ending dates: 11/07/91-12/12/91 MARK 350 01 1315
ECON 421 01 0799 PHIL 246 02 1673 
THEO 621 01 2557 new time: 09:30-12:00 T LAW 663 01 1294
ECON 443 01 0800 PHIL 247 01 2593 ENGL 315B 01 2698 PHIL 253 01 2531 DART COURSES ADDED
ENGL 317C 01 2779 PSY 3421 01 1923 ENGL 3171 03 2782 PSY 389 01 2352 ACCT 487 01 3397 Accounting Lyceum, 1 cr. hrs., M 3:25-5:30
ENGL 319A 01 1018 PSY 454 01 3004 
AMST 360 01 3383 News in American Life, 3cr. hrs., T H 11:00-12:15
ENGL 328A 01 2794 PSY 455 01 3005 
AMST 390 01 3400 Society and Culture in New England, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 
ENGL 399A 01 2567 ROFR 310 01 2037 
03:25-04:15; majors only thru 2nd period, then open to all
ENGL 413F 01 2800 soc 374 01 3032 
ARST 487S 01 0459 Senior Seminar, 3 cr. hrs., W10:10-12:05;
ENGL 414Z 01 2801 soc 401 01 3033 
ARST or DESN Senior majors only
ENGL 416E 01 2803 STV 454 01 2397 
COTH 308 01 3401 lntro. Broadcast Journalism, 3 cr. hrs., M W 11:00-12:15;
ENGL 416F 01 2804 THEO 246 01 0153 
Permission Required
ENGL 425 01 2807 THEO 250 01 0102 
EE 498 01 3403 Heterojunction Devices
ENGL 428A 01 2810 THEO 251 01 0082 
EE 598 01 3404 Heterojunction Devices
ENGL 432A 01 2811 THEO 253 01 0148 
ENGL 319E 01 3402 Contemporary Literature of Eastern EuropeL 435A 01 2813 THEO 262 01 2358 
~ r.r h~ T H 11·nn-1?·15 
...---~--~--~~--~--~--------------------~--------------~--~----~---------------------------------------~-
Frida~ April 12,1991 
The Observer page 15 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 
Here's what Kelley "Biackeye" 

STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? FRIDAY, 12TH 10-2AM I'm looking for 1-3 roommates to Less Better Blues 
Cook. star molester of the Tutus, Don't forget: "ANYWAY ... Is it [ NOTICES TICKETS okay for a quarter to go thru the 
has to say about his performance wash ... ergo, thus, therefore .. . 
share a Campus View apartment for Five O'Clock Shadows 
the summer. I'm interning in the against the chicks Monday: and TARTAR GUN ya KNOW ... Don't be Julie .. .
"I guess their center couldn't resist 

TYPING AVAILABLE Bend, so I won't be around much. (TARTAR GUN) 
I NEED 2 GRAD TICKETS. CALL Come now ... leisure Activities?Do

the charm of my tutu. She just 

Call John at 283-3574. McCORMICK'S CONEY ISLAND 
287-4082 JOHN X2325. 
grabbed me and pulled my head up I have any?Oh yeah, I drink .. .
across from the marriott. under her toga. She said she had to Someone smells really bad .. .
$$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. LOOKING FOR CONDO/APT. TO come and see the GUN do all of
One-way air from Chi. to LA. 5/11. 

foul me, but I know what she really There's a light in your eye that 
hours 10-5:30 everyday SUBLEASE FOR SUMMER. CALL your favorite songs and people. 
$110,x4243

JANET 283-3831. wanted. Who knows where my head keeps shining ... I love you guys! 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 will go today." No, REALLY I love you guys!" 
corner of ND Ave. & Howard Eckelkamp.
FOR SALE: 

Sitter for two boys. Age 5 and 3. Hizon. Just think-a whole year without 
Two Paul Simon tickets. Floor seats, 

Here's what Dante "Air" Diamente, hang-ups!
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award Flexible, own transportation. Kreidler.
great location. Call: star cartwheeler of the TUTUS, has

Winning Hotel, has rooms for Sunnymede area. 289-9649. Rhomberg.
Scott at 234-1 048 to say about controlling the boards: 

Graduation weekend. Located at Salvatoriello. 
"If I had a nickel for every rebound IToll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles FOR SALE 

got, I'd have, oh, approximately 
Better than Jordan, Jon, Danny, 

FOR RENT 
from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 PAUL SIMON TICKETS 
$1 .25. Then I could go out and buy CHRONIC DESIRE 
Donnie, and Joe! 

nights with $110 deposit per room. 
FOR APRIL 16TH SHOW. 
some tranquilizers. Do not taunt 
SYR-not a dance; we're a BANDSend letter with deposit to 3011 GREAT SEATS. ROW 4 AND 13.

GRAD. WEEKEND Dante Diamente." TONIGHT : SENIOR BAR 
Grace Coffehouse, Sat. NightBelvedere Rd, Elkhart, IN 46514. 

CALL X 3790 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY SATURDAY :The NAZZ (8:30)
10PM-? 219-291-7153. Here's what Ron "Hot Buns" Bielski, TUTOR WITH PH.D. AND 10 VAS. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GRAD ham of the Tutus, has to say about POW WOW POW WOW UNIVERSITY TEACHING TICKETS! Call Jerry x1069 

3 Bedroom House Monday's game: Sunday, April 14thEXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST Close to Campus "I scored for the first time at Notre from 12:00 to 7:00p.m.
BUSINESS & ECON. STUDENTS One way ticket Chicago to
$555 Month + Deposit Dame. lick it." DECLARATION OF
at Stepan Center IN ECON & MATH COURSES. 

Newark 5/16 -must be female. 

Ten Month Lease INDEPENDENCE
Admission is FREE w/ID 

272-3153. 
$100 negot. 272-7727

232-3616 Here's what little Peter, ultra-stud of 
POW WOW POW WOW the TUTUS, has to say about his 
FOR SALE:

HOUSES FOR LEASE 91-92 Yr. team name's omission from The "I am perfectly capable of 
Elizabeth Bird (Head Female Word Processing PAUL SIMON••2nd ROW 

3-7 Bedroom, Furnished, Observer's 1 0 best Bookstore team functioning in a warm
Dancer) is performing live Quick service, color printing Best offer!! Call x4900 

Reasonable Rates. names: and loving universe." 
on April 14th, from 12 to 7available. Call Betty at 7458 or 

Call at 232-1 776. "You're jealous, you darks of the p.m. at Stepan Center. 
leave message (289-1321) CUBS TIX!! 
Sports department. You wish you signed,
Admission is FREE w/ID APRIL 13

An attractive studio in lovely old weren't afraid to wear a tutu while Come and watch her hop like Independence, Iowa 
Leave 9:45AM/Return 8:45PM

mansion near N.D. $300 now playing basketball, but you're a crow and two-step like a pro asProfessional, fast, accurate typing $20.00
renting for summer &fall 91 call chicken. That's all right, no one she guides all of the dancers at the 
done for your term papers, reports, LaFortune Info. Desk
2879624 reads the Sports page anyway. Go POWWOW. SWEET-UMS
resumes. etc. Reasonable rate. All Classes Invited 
News.· 

It's been a long time Call or leave message at 299-1737. 
Best Locations, Best Houses, Have 
Top 21 Quotes From MUN NY Trip: since I've Said "Hi" your own yard. 233-9947. CHRONIC DESIRE Just want to let you TYPING term 
PERSONAL 

21 . A three hour tour? know that I BLOVE YOU! 
papers/reports/letters/resumes. Quaint furnished apts. near ND. SENIOR BAR*FRIDAY*4/12 20. Faehner's sequestered? Good!!! I CARE FOR YOU! 
Pick up and delivery available. 277­for summer or fall semesters. 
19. Three shots fast? I'm there Megrissa
5134 Cathy. Resumes.... Professional quality 
-effeciency $225 twice.

272-5667. (Tom Williams) -1 bedroom $260 18. She fell down the escalator, and KIMMY MARTIN .... I HOPE YOU 
TYPING: Accurate and Fast! -2 bedroom $360 EUCHRE TOURNAMENT the scary thing is, she's completely CAN FIND ENOUGH CUCUMBERS 
Call Jannell: Days 255-0022; IBM, COMMODORE, OR APPLE. Evenings 684-7507. deposit, references 616-Cash paid for all makes of Signups at lunch in NOH today! sober. TO KEEP YOURSELF RELAXED. 483-9572 Computers and Software. Computer Come play Sunday April12 at 11:00. 17. Rhododendroms are not YOU MEAN YOU WANT ME TO indigenous to these parts. SUCK ON THAT??GIVE THEM A 
TODAY ONLY@ Annenberg 2pm software for IBM and IBM ??x1324 
Female rmmte. (non-smok.) needed 
EUCHRE TOURNAMENT 16. If nobody minds, I'm going to COMPLEX. IT ALWAYS
Piano recital; compatible, Commodore or Apple,
for '91-92 at Runaway Bay-call lisa WORKS.BE MY FRIEND XOXO
watch LA law. Bye!

bring a tutu or 2 $2 each. 259-6841. "Mother" 15. Hello, We don't want any! DOUG (KATIE)
WESTERN ELECTRONICS "Yes, son?" 14. No, I'm not caucasing, I'm non­
1530 WESTERN AVE. 

Furnished Summer Apt.-Turtle "I want to ..." aligned. Bubbles, Bambi, Bunny, 
287-7550

LOST/FOUND 
Creek-2 Bed-Call DOORKNOB LORE 13. Bite Me! Evilness lurks in the realms of our 283-1747 after 5 at BRIDGET'S 12. I'd be bored and you'd be capabilities. Next year, our true
NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and FRIDAY NITE 10-2 confused. selves will shine through in our evil 
trade, gold, silver, diamonds, LOST: A Minolta Camera in a black FURNISHED TURTLE CREEK jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's, LIVE DOORS & CLASSIC ROCK 11. At least I didn't lose a Senate quad. Having a blast with y'all!!! TWN. HOUSE AVAILABLE FOR race! Love,Buffy
Eddie Bauer pouch. Believed to camcorders. cameras, air have been lost 3/28/91 in 127 SUMMER RENTAL. (TWO conditioners, microwaves, tools, "This is the best part of the trip. 10. Wanna pet my lizard? 
Niewland. If found please call Scott BEDROOM) CALL GWEN 283-Nintendo's, computers. This is the trip -the best part" 9. Excuse me, Mr. Undersecretary Hi Rich and Toddles, 1327. DOORKNOB LORE General, are those Bugle Boys Toddling, hope you feel better. 
@ 273-9355. REWARD!!!!! OZARK TRADING POST Fri nite at BRIDGET'S you're wearing? Don't keep all your women waiting
1530 WESTERN AVE. 

8. I don't know. They just followed too long!!! Rich-Hope we have a
Found: A gold braclet near the 287-7550 Moving to NYC/ or Summer Dearest Cynthia, Benny home. blast this weekend!!!! Starting off 
Dome. A name and date are inscribed on the braclet. To claim HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS 
Internship? Female non-smkr Many a day it's been since last a 7. Hey! Come back here with that with keg softball!!!!! I roommate needed to share large later-love, me
please call Ajay at SUMMER? Jet there with note can! mnhttn apt -safe, great neighbrhd, I've received; forgive me my 6. Faehner constantly strives for P.S. Bubbles had nothing to do with 
5749 or 287-4869. AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the 
near Central Park, Subway; Price reticence-self-improvement (In Bed) this!!!
Midwest. $160 from the East Coast. 

Negoc. Contact: linda Filar (ND '90) 1 was submerged in your words, 5. Even baby pythons are born 12
LOST: CAMEO PIN. GREAT (As reported in NY Times and Let's 
(212) 968-3937 on wkdys; or write: 
drowning in verse inches long. 711 Amsterdam Ave, 25M, NYC, NY Too high for my meagre powers to 4. Ken's got Parma-Smile! 
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL239-Go!) AIRHITCH (r) 212-864-2000 
5812 TERRI WELTY. 10025. Apt available mid-May. answer. 3. Oh? You mean the 6-2 black guy 
PREGNANT? LOST: KEYS! 3 keys on two Whoops! Is "Our Baby" growing in 
It was not a sign of dislike, as I with blond dreadlocks kneeling by 
Guatemalan
Condo for summer rental wrote the side of my bed? 
attached rings-one room key, one your tummy by accident? loving2 bdrm 1 mi. from NO 272-5708 But knew not what to say to you 2. It's Rich's birthday on Friday.
mail key (#139) and one padlock. doctor and his stay-at-home wife 
Imports

from reverence; He'll be twenty ... uhh two.
Lost 4-2 possibly in 117 Haggar. would like to discuss Baby's future Please call X4092 if you can help. 2 Bdrm. 2 Bath Oak Hill Condo. with you. Please call collect Your muse from above is kind, while 1. One, two, three ... Shut up Rick 
$650 unfurnished, $800 furnished. 
I curse (Ken/Mike)!
anytime. (219) 462-5250 Michael & 

Saint Mary's College 
Avail. for Summer and 91-92 School 
Mine, who for me never has been yr. Call Michelle at X4970. near. AnTostal '91 ...1T's COMING! 
LOST: RING WITH 5 SMALL Debra. 
DIAMONDS IN SHAPE OF A V. 
LeMans Hall 

-Colin AnTostal '91 ..JUST DO IT! 
IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO I got it. 
TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES 
April 8-12

208 KNOTI HALL. Come. And be my baby.
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE DAVID HAAS!!! Happy 20th you big AnTostal '91 IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
10 am-5 pm

studly god of a man you! Hope you April 20-28 April 20-28 ADOPTION: loving couple, doctor ... 3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE have the weekend of your dreams, 
FOUND: Two rings in the Ladies and teacher, longing to share our first floor restroom in O'Shag. Call love with newborn. We'll give your 
NORTH OF NO 2773097 since we all know what incredibly Everytlne's Doing It!!!!!!!! #2170 to claim. baby a caring, warm, and happy 
demented dreams you have! 

Purses, hats, belts, 
AVAILABLE JUNE 1 OR AUGUST 
love, the twins-NOT! SIGN-UPS:home. Expenses paid. Call Carol 
1. FOUR BEDROOM HOME WITH Thurs. & Fri., April11·12 
shirts, vests, other
lost: On the basketball courts at and Frank collect 212-874-3537. 
TWO COMPLETE BATHS. To My Buddies-4pm-6pm
Stephan...a Triumph WATCH and COMPLETELY FURNISHED. CATHad, nightMARe. and Rose (In SUB-2nd Floor LaFortune) 
accessories, and 

1934 Chicago silver RING!!! Please LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes 
CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME. CALL 
( UP! I mean Kelley!) ......... ..

call if found-every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00 am. 
traditional

234-9364. Train and jump the same day. Thanks for being such great friends! MATIMETZ-Modern equipment and training 
Sorry our quad for next year didn't Good luck tonight at cheerleading 
Guatemalan clothing 
Sublet apartment for summer:1 programs. licensed instructors. work out! This weekend is going to tryouts. You've got it "in the bag"! 
WANTED 
and weavings. 

bedroom, 800+ sq. ft., fully FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-be a blast! I thought you'd like to hanSON!!! furnished, washer and dryer 2665. see your names in print.. so here's PS-after you've made the 1991 SUMMER JOBS in apartment, pool, tennis your first personal' cheerleading squad. it's All LAND/WATER SPORTS courts, etc. Rent negotiable. love, HAMMERTIME!!!I

Irish Music & Dancing with PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS Call277-2597 Jill
SEAMAISIN Sat, Club 23 

A % of Sales goes back
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR NOTRE DAME RUGBY 
9 pm until whenever ends LAKE PLACID. CALL **BAND SEEKS AUDIENCE** 
to Guatemala to buy

FOR SALE
1-800-343-8373. Auditions?? Please see: SYR. Come see the Fightin' Irish 
Engineers' Week: 

books &school supplies 
Tomorrow night, Grace tackle ILLINOIS STATE in ourFree Body Friday 
sofa, luv seat, carpet *Engineering "Arts and Leisure" 
Coffeehouse. 1 OPM-?? first home match of the year! 
for children. 

window seats (Fl. & Gr.) 
American AuPair nanny specialists. SAT. at 1:00
Day, Cushing Quad X1583

Carefully screened families. Full FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY Stepan Fields 
*Volleyball Tournament 3pm benefits, airfare, good wages, 
CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. 
Cushing Quad 

1990 CAVALIER Z24, it. blue, low
Nanny support system, no fees. NOTRE DAME RUGBY 
*Picnic 1 live Band 4pm miles, sharp. Call 271-8920. 

Local interview-call Joan 616-684­
STUDENTS: 1451. Going home for the summer? Need TO THE NEWS SLAVES (lauren,
Cushing Quad 
*Tye-Dye 4pm 

For Sale: 1982 VW Rabbii Cushing Quad 
a place to stash your stuff? We Ann Marie, David, Pete, Frank, 
Great condition, new battery, 
have the place for you! Colleen, Mary, Meredith, Alicia, 100k miles. $950 OBO. 
~ 

CINCINNATI -I need a ride this JOY'S SELF LOCK STORAGE Meg, Siobhan, and Colette): Thanks 
Call Jeff @1786. 

weekend!!! If your going and want 272-2400 for putting up with all the changes company and money for gas, please these past few weeks. You have
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Come watch 5 Guys Who Aren't 
DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR

call Kristen at 283-2927. STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? been more than patient. Things are 
.....................

Buying a car? Good rates. Call me Afraid to Wear Tutus While Playing 
....~­

I'm looking for 1-3 roommates to going to get better, we promise!
for a quote 9:30-6:00,289-1993. 
Basketball play in their 2nd game! 

share a Campus View apartment for Love (and other indoor sports), TheOffice near campus. 
Oinne• for 2
Today, 4:45pm, Stepan. Oh, by the 

the summer. I'm interning in the News Gods (Mony & Paul) 
----------­
way, do not taunt Dante. He may 

$899 ?_'::'
Moving to Chicago? Female NO Bend, so I won't be around much. P.S. FIRE UP FOR SOFTBALL!!! 
..
*Shelf Stereo System* 
grad needs roommate to share 2 get angry. Call John at 283-3574. 
Pock any two Oo..rmor SnocJ,.ocll...

Dual Cassette, AM/FMst, semi-autobedroom apartment. Must be a non­Amy, Becky, Erin, Helen, Renee: 
r-wo Gorden s.n... pluo '"'" clloice ci

turntable, 2 shelf spkrs 
French Fr,. or On.on R,np and 2

smoker. If interested, please call Here's what Guy "McDago" SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS I'm proud of you guys. Next Year! 
M•tu .S,Unda.&

$80 or b.o. Matt x2004 DiDinato of the TUTUS says to his 
expiration dille 5/31 opponents today: 
Ann at (312) 935-1958. LONDON-ROME OPENINGS STILL love you all, and want you to have 
AVAILABLE . College my children, Scott. 
ONE-WAY TIC TO SAN DIEGO, 
Sundae
"We will taunt you with our 
courses and travel May & June, 

.. 
99t --------­
5/19 FRM CHI. $150 OR B/O.CALL 
tantalizing tutus 'til tomorrow. 
B.., any IOIC oundec and

rider to S. Fla after finals Info. call Prof. A.A. Black 284-SUMMER STORAGE: Best rates 
rec;e..., • MCond one <i chc
MIKE 288-7797. 
Moreover, I'll score a lot." 
......;.far99.. expiration dlltr S/31 

call X4608 John 4460(office) 272-3726(home) and facility. Call Store-More Mini­
Warehouse 654-3636. 




SCOREBOARD 
Friday, April12, 1991 
MASTERS RESULTS 

All Tlmes EDT AMERICAN LEAGUE Ellst Division 
w l Pet. GB Toronto 3 1 .750 Detroit 2 1 .667 1f2 Milwaukee 2 1 .667 1f2 Cleveland 2 2 .500 1 New York 1 2 .333 1 1f2 Boston 1 3 .250 2 Baltimore 0 2 .000 2 West Division 
w l Pet. GB Cali1ornia 3 0 1.000­Chicago 2 0 1.000 1f2 Kansas City 2 1 .667 1 Oakland 2 1 .667 1 Minnesota 1 2 .333 2 Texas 0 2 .000 21f2 Seattle 0 3 .000 3 Thur.day's Gsmes Cleveland 6, Boston 4 Detroit 11, New YolK 5 Oakland 3, Minnesota 0 California 5, Seattle 0 Toronto 7, Milwaukee 3 Only games scheduled Friday's Gllmes Chicago (Fernandez 5-5) at Detroit (Searcy 2·7), 
7:35p.m. Milwaukee (Navarro B-7) at Toronto (Boucher 0-0), 7:35p.m. Cali1omia (P.Abbott 10-14) at Minnesota (Tapani 12-B), B:05 p.m. New YolK (Cary 5-12) at Kansas City (S.Davis 7­10), B:35 p.m. Baltimore (D.Johnson 13-9) at Texas (B.Witt 17­10), B:35 p.m. Seattle (Bankhead 0·2) at Oakland (Moore 13-15), 
10:35 p.m. 

BASEBALL LINESCORES 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Cleveland 330 000 OOQ--6 11 0 Boston 000 000 31Q--4 10 0 
King, Olin (7), D.Jones (9) and Alomar; Darwin, Bolton (2), Kiecker (8) and Pena. W-King, 1-0. L-Darwin, 0-1. Sv-D.Jones (2). 
New York 310 100 ooo-5 10 2 
Detroit 020 202 32x-11 10 1 
Eiland, Habyan (5), Guenerman (6), Plunk (7), Cadaret (8) and Nokes, Leyritz (7). Geren (8); Gullickson, Gibson (4), Petry (7), Henneman (B) and Tettleton, Allanson (9). W-Gibson, 2-0. L-Habyan. 0-1. HAs-New YolK, Kelly (1). Detroit, lncaviglia (1 ). 
Minnesota 000 000 ooo-o 5 Oakland 000 100 11x-3 9 1 
Erickson, Bedrosian (8) and Ortiz; Slusarski, Eckersley (8) and Quirlt. W-stusarski, 1-0. L-Erickson, 0-1. Sv-Eckersley (1 ). 
California 001 200 2D0-5 12 0 Seattle 000 000 ooo-o 5 2 
Langston, J.D.Robinson (7) and Orton; Holman, Krueger (7), Murphy (8) and Valle. W-Langston, 1-0. L-Holman, 0-1. Sv-J.D.Robinson (1). 
Milwaukee 000 000 03o-3 9 0 Toronto 100 114 OOx-7 13 0 
A. Robinson, Machado (5), Crim (6), Plesac (8) and Surhoff, Dempsey (8); Wells, Ward (9) and Myers. W-Wells, 1-0. L-R.Robinson, 0-1. HR-Milwaukee, Spiers (2). 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Los Angeles 31 0 000 OOQ---4 9 Atlanta 010 000 001-2 7 1 
A. Martinez, Candelaria (9), J.Howell (9) and Sciascia; Leibrandt, Stanton (8), Mercker (9) and Heath. W-R.Martinez, 1-0. L-Leibrandt, 0-1. HR-Atlanta, Pendleton (1). 
St. Louis 000 130 01~5 12 0 Chicago 000 001 012-4 9 1 
Hill, Terry (7), Perez (8), Le.Smith (8) and Pagnozzi; Harttey, Slocumb (5), McElroy (6), Lancaster (8) and Girardi. W-Hill, 1-0. L-Harkey, 0-1. Sv-le.Smith (2). HR-Chicago, Grace (1 ). 
San Francisco 010 142 100 2-11 19 2 San Diego 002 004 003 ~ 9 17 0 (10 innings) 
LaCoss, Gunderson (6), T.Wilson (6), Brantley (7), Righetti (8) and Decker; Benes, Rodriguez (5), Gardner (7), Maddux (9), Lefferts ( 1 0) and Santiago. W-Righetti, 1-0. L-lefferts, 0-1. HAs-San Francisco, R.Thompson (1), Mitchell (3), Ma.Williams (1). San Diego, Barren (1). 
Houston 000 200 011-4 9 Cincinnati 000 100 00~1 3 0 
Harnisch. Hernandez (6), Schilling (7) and Biggio; Charlton. Dibble (9), Carman (9) and J.Reed. W-Hamisch, 1-0. L-Charlton, 0-1. Sv-Schilling (1 ). 
Montreal 002 000 001-3 B 0 New York 120 020 1Ox-6 8 1 
Mahler, Rojas (5), Long (B) and Santovenia; Whitehurst. Pena (8), Franco (9) and Cerone. W-Whitehurst. 1-0. L-Mahler, 0-1. Sv-Franco (2). 
I 
l 
l r 
I 
I' 
~ 
-Drinks-

TODRY ONLY 
·Great Campus BANDS 
Rnnenberg Ruditorium 
-Jester

2pm 
-Five O'Clock Shadow Adrian Daly (piano) 
THE COST: $ 25 a couple 
Music by Beethouen, Schumann, Copland and 
Ifyou did not buy a bid to the Senior Formal, 
Rachmaninoff 
why notjump on this attractive alternative for a truly festive time? 
B.Y.O.B. 
Tickets Available at LaFortune Information Desk 
All Times EDT  AUGUSTA, Ga. (AP)-Scores after the first round  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  of the 55th Masters Tournament on the 6,905-yard,  
East Division  par 36-36--72 Augusta National Golf Club course  

TA's From Hell def. 4 Sloths and a Swamp Fox, 21-17. Crunch Time def. All Time Lows, 21-10. 
only a few days left to buy tickets to 
Paradise Jam del. Dead in the Long Run, 21-9. Our Party Balls Flow del. 5 Orange Whips, 21-15. Small but Huge def. Satan and His Minions ... , 
21-1. Legend of Rico Suave ... del. Smacky and the 
Boys, 21-13. D.C., the 3 Amigos, ... def. Culture Club ... , 21-6. Beer Train def. Digger's Fan Club ... , 21-6. Bitter def. Go Billy Baroo ... , 21-8. The Innkeepers II del. Los Huerons, 21-2. 


an off-campus Dinner/Dance for all Graduating Seniors 
FRIDAY, April 19, 1991 ·7pm to Midnight at St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall Western Ave at Scott Street -Sit Down, Family Style Dinner 
NHL PLAYOFFS 
All Times EDT DIVISION SEMIFINALS (Best-of-7) Wednesday's Games Detroit 4, St. Louis 3, Detroit leads series 3-1 Minnesota 3, Chicago 1, series tied 2·2 Edmonton 5, Calgary 2, Edmonton leads series 3-1 Los Angeles 6, Vancouver 1, series tied 2-2 Thursday, Aprll11 Boston 6, Hartford 1, Boston leads series 3-2 Montreal 4, Buffalo 3, OT, Montreal leads series 3-2 New Jersey 4, Pittsburgh 2, New Jersey leads 
series 3-2 Washington 5, N.Y. Rangers 4, OT, Washington 
leads series 3-2 Friday, Aprll12 Minnesota at Chicago. 8:35p.m. Detroit at St. louis, 8:35 p.m. Edmonton at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. Vancouver at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Saturday, Apr1113 Montreal at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. Boston at Hartford, 7:35 p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Washington. 7:35p.m. Pittsburgh at New Jersey, 7:45 p.m. Sunday, Aprl114 St. louis at Detroit, 9:05 p.m .• i1 necessary Chicago at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m. Calgary at Edmonton, 8:05 p.m., if necessary Los Angeles at Vancouver, 10:05 p.m. Monday, Aprll15 Hartford at Boston. 7:35p.m., i1 necessary Buffalo at Montreal, 7:35 p.m., i1 necessary Washington at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m., i1 necessary New Jersey at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m., if necessary Tuesday,Aprll16 Minnesota at Chicago, 8:35 p.m., i1 necessary Detroit at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m., if necessary Edmonlon at Calgary, 9:35 p.m .. if necessary Vancouver at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m., i1 necessary 
NHL LINESCORES 
Hartford 0 ~1 Boston 0 0 6-6 Second Period-1, Hartford, Shaw 1 (Cullen, Hunter). 7:16. 
Third Period-2. Boston. Bourque 2. 1:20 (pp). 3, Boston. Christian 3 (Poulin), 1 :36. 4, Boston, Lazaro 2 (Neely, Janney), 8:05. 5, Boston, Neely 4 (Janney, Bourque), 10:20 (pp). 6, Boston. Neely 5 (Janney, Skriko), 16:57 (pp). 7, Boston. Weimer 1 (Galley), 17:53 (pp). 
New Jersey 2 0 2-4 
Pittsburgh 0 0 2-2 
First Period-1, New Jersey, Maclean 4 (Driver), 
3:20 (pp). 2, New Jersey, Driver 1 (Shanahan, Stastny), 13:15 (pp). 

Third Period-3, Pittsburgh, Francis 1 (Recchi). :54. 4, Pittsburgh, Murphy 1 (Francis), 3:41. 5, New Jersey, C.Lemieux 3 (Muller, Stastny), 12:59 (pp). 6, New Jersey, Brown 2 (Conacher). t9:38 (en). 
e 


4-14-91 
NBA STANDINGS 
All Times EDT EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvfston 
w  l  Pet  GB  L10 Streak  
y-Boston  54  22  .7t1  5-5  Lost2  
x-Philadelphia  43  33  .566  11  6-4  Won3  
x-New YolK  36  41  .468  18 1/2 2-8  Lost 2  
Washington  27  49  .355  27  3-7  Lost 4  
Miami  23  53  .303  31  3-7  Won 1  
New Jersey  23  53  .303  31  1-9  Lost6  
Central Division  
y-Chicago  57  20  .740  6-4  Won2  
x-Detroit  47  30  .610  10  6-4  Lost 3  
x-Milwaukee  47  30  .610  10  7-3  Won3  
x-Atlanta  41  36  .532  16  4-6  Lost 1  
x-lndiana  38  39  .494  19  5-5  Los11  
Cleveland  29  48  .3n  28  5-5  Won 1  
Charfotte  23  54  .299  34  4-6  Lost 3  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
M~t Division  
w  L  Pet  GB  llO Streak  
x-San Antonio  51  25  .671  8-2  Lost 1  
x-Utah  50  27  .649  1 1f2  5-5  Lost 1  
x-Houston  49  27  .645  2  7-3  Lost 2  
Orlando  28  48  .368  23  5-5  Lost 1  
Dallas  26  50  .342  25  1-9  Lost 5  
Minnesota  25  51  .329  26  3-7  Won2  
Denver  19  57  .250  32  1-9  Lost 6  
Pacific Division  
x-Portland  59  18  .766  10-0 Won 12  
x-LA Lakers  56  21  .727  3  8-2  Won6  
x-Phoenix  51  25  .671  71/2  5-5  Won 1  
x-Golden State 40  38  .513  19 1/2 4-6  Won 1  
x-Seattle  38  38  .500  20 1/2 6-4  Won3  
LA Clippers  30  47  .390  29  7-3  Lost 2  
Sacramento  23  53  .303  35 1/2 5-5  Won2  
x-ctinched playoff berth  
y-ctinched division title  
Thursday's Games  
Minnesota 112. Atlanta 98  
Milwaukee 111 • Boston 92  

Golden State 111, Houston 99 LA Lakers 110. Utah 95 Sacramento 104, Orlando 96 
Friday's Games Miami at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Minnesota at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. Cleveland at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Washington at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. Chicago at Detroit, 8 p.m. Indiana at New YolK, 8:30p.m. San Antonio at Seattle. 10 p.m. Dallas at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m. Denver at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 
H 
A 
p 
p y 

w l Pet. GB New York 3 1 .750 Pittsburgh 2 1 .667 1f2 St. Louis 2 1 .667 1f2 Chicago 2 .333 1 1f2 Philadelphia 2 .333 1 1f2 Montreal 3 .250 2 West Division 
W L Pet. GB Los Angeles 2 0 1.000­Cincinnati 2 1 .667 1f2 San Diego 2 1 .667 1f2 Houston 1 2 .333 1 1f2 San Francisco 1 2 .333 1 1f2 Atlanta 0 2 .000 2 Thursdlly's Games 
Los Angeles 4, Atlanta 2 St. Louis 5, Chicago 4 San Francisco 11, San Diego 9, 10 innings Houston 4, Cincinnati 1 New York 6, Montreal 3 Only games scheduled 
Friday's Games Pittsburgh (Smiley 9-10) at Chicago (Boskie 5-6). 3:20p.m. San Diego (Harris 8-8) at los Angeles (Ojeda 7-6), 4:05p.m. Atlanta (Avery 3-11) at Cincinnati (Armstrong 12-9), 7:35p.m. St. Louis (Moyer 0-0) at Philadelphia (Combs 10­1 0), 7:35 p.m. Montreal (Sampan 12-7) at New YolK (Darling 7-9), 7:40p.m. San Francisco (Reuschel3-6) at Houston (Portugal 11-10), 8:35p.m. 
NO/TRI-STATE BOX 
Tri-State 000 401 100· 6 5 2 Notre Dame 260 020 OOx-10 10 4 Fabisiak, Goetschel (2), Pernell (6) and Winicky, Shaw (6); Michalak. Leahy (4). Binkiewicz (5), Walania (7) and Coss. W-Binkiewicz (1-0). L-Fabisiak (4-2). Sv-Walania (2). 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Alluhl ot Bookstore Baslcttball Tournament 
games olaved 4111/91: Just Chillin' del. Team 179, 21-4. Armed and Dangerous def. Box and One, 21-5. Honky Breath def. 5 Shameless Women, 21-13. Where the Sun Don't Shine del. Hustlin' Playboys, 
21-19 Mikey Likes it ... del. Teeth Trashin', 21-16. High Rollers def. We'll Win with Sanctions, 22-20. lnbounds, In Range def. Four Fleas and a Camel, 
21-4. 5 Glorious Mysteries def. Static Equilibrium, 21-12. Pale Rider Lives def. House of Pain, 21-10. BalKing Cliff Chickens def. Clam Diggers, 21-18. Saddam Hussein ... def. 3 Male Chauvanists ... , 
21-19. DeBartolo Hit Men del. Shoot the Trey, 21-3. The Cheggers def. Operation Bookstorm, 21-16. You Got a Rip ... del. Come See Our 6000 ... , 
21-11. Jane Doe del. Dangling Furies, 27-25. 5 Guys that Can't Score def. Dogs in Heat, 21-19. Spidergram P.l. def. Flyin' Mack Daddys, 21-4. Team 664 def. The Hairy Mexican ... , 21-11. 1992 Olympic ... clef. United Demonic ... , 21-6. 5 Guys Who Hate Bill del. We Hate Your Life, 
21-10. Dawgs Turned Dirty del. Hal Gurney's ... , 21-9. Flamuche Five def. Stray Scuds, 21-16. I Thought We Told ... def. First Round Knockouts, 
21-7. Chillin' With Frozen Roman del. Lou's 
Slaughterhouse 5, 21-13. Team Geek def. David, Goliath, ... by forfeit. Who Are We Kidding? del. Carpe Merltin ... , 21-12. We Didn't Want ... def. The Danglers 21-15. Toenail Clippings def. Gaping Wounds, Open 
Sores, ... , 21·15. Gerry's Kids def. Skanky Fishheads, 21-7. NO's Most Wanted del. Wow! There's No Fine ... , 
---21-6. 
(a-denotes amateur): Lanny Wadkins Jim Gallagher, Jr. Marlt McCumber Fred Couples Tom Watson Jack Nicklaus Jumbo Ozaki Jose M.Otazabal Wayne Levi Marlt Brooks a-Phil Mickelson Scott Simpson Jodie Mudd Tommy Aaron Craig Stadler Andrew Magee Ben Crenshaw Marlt Calcavecchia Fuzzy Zoeller Hale Irwin David Frost Ray Floyd Jeff Sluman Tom Kite tan Baker-Finch Bernhard Langer a-Manny Zerrnan Lee Trevino Scott Hoch Ken Green Morris Hatalsky Tom Sieckmann Loren Roberts Gary Player Paul Azinger Nick Price Joey Sindelar Kenny Knox Donnie Hammond Mark McNulty Billy Mayfair Steve Elkington Rocco Mediate Curtis Strange Larry Mize Bill Britton tan Woosnam Davis Love Ill Steve Pate Don Pooley Robert Gamez Nick Faldo Mike Donald Steve Jones Peter Jacobsen Ronan Rafferty John Huyston Tim Simpson George Archer Nolan Henke Ted Schulz Billy Ray Brown Mark O'Meara Wayne Grady Larry Nelson Tommy Nakajima Chip Beck Jay Don Blake Seve Ballesteros BobTway John Inman Billy Casper Sandy Lyle Gil Morgan Charles Coody John Cook Brian Tennyson Jim Benepe Gay Brewer Frankie Minoza Greg Norman Arnold Palmer a-Rolf Muntz a-Michael Combs a-James Stuart Doug Ford 
34-33-67 34-33-67 
33-~7 
34-34-68 34-34-68 33-35--68 35-33-68 35-33-68 
35-~9 
35-~9 
37-32-69 34-35-69 35-35-70 35-35-70 37-33-70 37-33-70 35-35-70 36-34-70 36-34-70 33-37-70 36-35--71 35-36--71 35-36--71 35-36--71 34-37-71 37-34-71 35-36--71 37-34-71 36-35--71 32-39--71 35-36--71 37-35--72 38-34-72 37-35--72 35-37-72 37-35--72 38-34-72 35-37-72 37-35--72 37-35--72 39-33-72 38-34-72 37-35--72 35-37-72 35-37--72 37-35--72 35-37-72 36-36--72 38-34-72 35-37-72 37-35--72 35-37-72 38-35--73 37-36--73 36-37-73 37-36-73 36-37-73 38-35--73 37-36--73 37-36-73 38-36--74 38-36-74 38-36-74 36-38-74 38-36--74 37-37-74 35-39--74 37-37-74 34-41-75 37-38--75 36-39--75 
37-4~n 
39-38-n 40-37-n 
37-4~77 
40-37-n 
37-41-78 40-38-78 37-41-78 
38·4~78 
34-4~78 
40-38-78 
42-3~ 
42·3g.....a1 41-40--81 43-47-90 
-5 
-5 
-5 
-4 -4 -4 -4 -4 
-3 -3 -3 -3 -2 -2 -2 -2 -2 -2 -2 -2 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E +1 +1 +1 +1 +1 +1 +1 +1 +2 +2 +2 +2 +2 +2 +2 +2 +3 +3 +3 +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 +6 +6 +6 +6 
+6 
+6 +8 +9 +9 +18 

,
'~----------------------------------------~~ 
\.: 
-~--· 


COME OUT AND JAM WITH SOME OF .. NO'S FINEST BANDS 
Stage A Stage B 

7:00 SYR 7: 15 Good Question 
7:30 Thee Bitch Hogs 7:45 5 O'Clock Shadows 8:00 1ester· 8:15 Smear 
8:30 Chronic Desire 8:45 Sister Spleen 
9:00 Castaways 9:15 Metlatones · 
9:30 Bone Forest 9:45 Heaven's Trail 
10:00 Ice Nine 10: 15 Headless Torso 
10:30 Tartar Gun 10:45 Bedspins 11 :00 NAZUS 1 1: 15 ~ootloops 
11 : 30 Door Knob Lore 11:45 Doghaus 
12:00 JAM 

_·...r 

--.. ~ ....... , .., ....-ii .. -,_ .-~ -... --• 

~--~­

page 18 The Observer Friday, April 12, 1991 
Campbell, Mitchell lead Wolves to victory over Hawks 
Irish will see Big Red as lacrosse team hosts Cornell 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Tony Campbell scored 27 points and Sam Mitchell added 25 as Minnesota beat Atlanta 112-98 Thursday night for its first back-to-hack victories since January. 
Spud Webb scored 23 points and Glenn Rivers 19 for Atlanta, while Dominique Wilkins scored 14 points -12 below his average -on 4-for-17 shooting. 
Campbell, Tyrone Corbin and Pooh Richardson ignited a 12-4 run with four points each that put Minnesota up 73-61 with 
4:54 remaining in the third. 
Trailing 91-75, Atlanta rallied with a 9-2 run, but the Hawks got no closer than 104-97 with 
2:43 left on a 3-pointer by Rivers. 

l By DAVE McMAHON 
Associate Sports Editor 
I 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team hopes for continued im­
l provement Saturday when the Irish (4-4) host 14th-ranked Cornell (5-2) at 2 p.m. in Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Irish are coming off their best performance of the year, a 15-11 win over Division III Denison College. The Big Red, on the other hand, have en­countered some difficulty in their last two outings. After winning their first five matches, all played on their home turf, Cornell, ranked as high as sev­enth while undefeated, has lost two straight. But there are no major problems plaguing the Big Red-only a difficult sched­ule that has presented Ivy League powers Yale and Penn in their last two games. 
Notre Dame, which was hav­ing problems with consistency until last Saturday's game against Denison, will need to erase that performance and play yet another solid game in order to shut down Cornell. 
Women's track 
competes in first 
Dogwood Relays 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
The women's track team is venturing into new territory again this weekend. This time, they make their first trip to the annual Dogwood Relays in Knoxville, Tennessee. 
The two-day meet will showcase the talents of some of the top teams from the South. 
For the Irish, the runners to watch will be the freshmen. Latrice Waters, a Knoxville native, will represent the Irish in the 100 yard dash. Other freshmen to watch will be Ashea Price running the 200 meter dash and Kristin Stovall running the 400. 
In the distance events, senior Jenny Ledwick, junior Diane Bradley, and sophomore Lisa Gorski will all be counted on to turn in strong performances. Ledwick placed third in the 3000 meter event last weekend. Bradley and Gorski finished fifth and sixth respectively in the 1500. 
Sophomore Karen Harris will represent the Irish in the shot put, the javelin, and the discus events after a very strong showing at the meet last weekend. 

Bucks 111 , Celtics 92 
MILWAUKEE -Fred Roberts scored 26 points and Frank Brickowski added 22 as Milwaukee beat Boston 111-92 to tie Detroit for the Eastern Conference's No. 3 playoff spot. 
The Celtics played without Larry Bird. who was out with back spasms. Kevin McHale scored 16 points and Brian Shaw 15. 
Milwaukee's Adrian Dantley moved past Elgin Baylor into ninth place on the NBA's career scoring list. Dantley scored five points, giving him 23,152 for his 14-year career. 
Boston got within seven points in the third quarter before Milwaukee's Jay Humphries scored nine of his 17 points in 

Pat Finn 

"They don't really change that much year-to-year in terms of the things they like to do," said third-year Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. "They execute well and that makes them hard to play. They don't outsmart you with what they do, but they out­execute you." 
But Corrigan believes his squad is more prepared than ever to play their best game of the season. 
"Out focus this week has been on playing the situations that they put you in with their picks and cutters," said Corrigan. "Fundamentals become paramount to beat a team like Cornell." 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, SCO·MO! 
NOT 
too 
CAU 
for 
~ou! 


JUNIORS 
Help make your Senior year the best! 
Get involved with the Senior Class Government! 
Applications for commissioners and on & off campus reps. available at LaFortune 
the fourth quarter to give the Bucks an 11-point lead. They led by as many as 18 early in the final period. 
Lakers 110, Jazz 95 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. -Magic Johnson scored 31 points, 12 in the fourth quarter, and reserve guard Terry Teagle added 20 as Los Angeles won its sixth straight game. 
Utah used a 15-2 surge late in the third quarter to cut a 15­point deficit to two. But Johnson made five straight free throws at the start of the final period, giving Los Angeles a 78-69 lead with 10:45 remaining. The Jazz got no closer than six points the rest of the way. 

The force behind their consis­both can do the job," said tent game plan is Cornell coach Corrigan. Richie Moran, who sports a Cornell, which scored eight 228-68 record in his 23rd sea­goals in the fourth quarter last son with the Big Red. Cornell year to beat the Irish 14-8, has owns three national champi­a balanced offensive attack, onships and under Moran, no similar to those of past Irish Cornell team has produced a opponents Loyola and non-winning season. Villanova. 
Irish junior attackman Mike Attackman John Snow leads Sullivan tied his own Irish the Big Red offense with 12 record last week with nine goals and 15 assists, followed points against Denison. Sullivan by Steve Gray and John Busse leads the Irish offensively with with 14 goals each. Defensively, 19 goals and 17 assists. the Big Red plays an up-tempo, Sophomore midfielder Brian pressure game. 
Mayglothling, who carries a 
.348 shooting percentage into tomorrow's game, has 16 goals, 

Notre Dame/St. Mary's 
followed by junior attackman 

Synchronized Swim Club
Brian Schirf with 15. Senior • midfielder John Capano has scrapped his way to 58 ground 
presents
balls on the season, tops for Notre Dame. Senior defenseman Pete Gillin follows 

Spring Show 
with 39. 

April 14, 1 :00 
For the second time in as many games, sophomore Pat 

Rolf's Aquatic Center 
Finn will start in goal for the 

free admission 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Irish, replacing Chris Parent,

who started the first seven r games. 
"I have confidence that they 

Johnson made all 18 of his free throws and added 11 as­sists as he moved within 2 3 of Oscar Robertson's NBA record of 9,887 assists. Karl Malone had 21 points to lead the Jazz in scoring for the 13th time in 14 games. 
Kings 104, Magic 96 

SACRAMENTO, Calif. Travis Mays scored 20 points and the Sacramento Kings blocked a franchise-record 16 shots to beat Orlando for their fifth straight home win. 
Duane Causwell had 18 points and 4 blocked shots as the Kings broke their previous team of 15 blocks set Jan. 19, 1989 against the New York Knicks. 
LUNCH SPECIAL Mon.-Fri. Rll Month 
Free Hot Soup With Rny Sandwich Purchase 
Open 7 Days A Week At 6:00 A.M. 

U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland-(Acrass fro• Holiday Ina) 212·7433 
RACHEL­BEST of LUCK with Cheerleading tryouts. You'll do GREAT!! 
LOVE, 
SERVIN 
ND/SMC 
STUDENTS FOR25 YEARS 
April Special 
All Month 
Ovenbake 

Apple Pancakes 
$100 
OFF 
No Coupon Needed 

The Irish are aware that Cornell has many scoring threats and will take advantage of their mistakes. 
"Offensively they do a good job of sharing the ball," said Corrigan. "They run a motion offense where they pick and cut an awful lot. All six guys on the offensive end of the field are in constant motion." 
Although the Irish are playing a nationally-ranked opponent, don't expect them to be hesitant in implementing their game plan. 
The Kings had 11 blocked shots in the first half. 
Lionel Simmons had 19 points and 12 rebounds for the Kings as Sacramento improved to 22­16 at home and 23-53 overall, matching last season's victory total despite a record-tying 34 straight road losses. Scott Skiles had 21 points for the Magic. 
Warriors 111, Rockets 99 

OAKLAND, Calif. -Golden State made all 33 of its free throws, the third-best showing in NBA history, and broke open a close game in the fourth quarter by intentionally fouling Houston's Larry Smith, who missed six straight foul shots. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------• 
Frida~ April 12,1991 The Observer page 19 
Women's tennis looks to rebound Detroit doubleheader next 
By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
The top competition in the country is what the Notre Dame women's tennis team 1\as faced all year, and as the team closes out the 1991 spring season their final weekend will be n~ different. 
Having already played 10 teams ranked or receiving votes in the current top-25 poll, the Irish (15-8) close out the year traveling east to Knoxville to challenge 13th-ranked Tennessee and Wake Forest. 
Last weekend, the Irish dropped two heartbreaking contests, both by 5-4 scores, to BYU and Utah, who are ranked ahead of NO. Earlier this week the Irish bounced back from th~ losses to defeat Western Michigan by a 5-1 count, in preparation for their final two contests of the season. 
"We really could have won both the BYU and Utah matches," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. "All the matches were very close, and we have to win some of the tight ones. We played well at Western Michigan, but the match was 
tougher than the score indi­
cated as three of the matches 
went three sets." 
The Irish have compiled an admirable 15-8 record against some of the best teams in the country. All of the losses came against teams in the top-25 or close to cracking it. The newest rankings, out this week, have the Irish at 24th, dropping down one spot. Individually, first-singles player Tracy Barton fell from 35th to 39th, and Melissa Harris dropped from 42nd to 47th. The first doubles tandem of Barton and Christy Faustmann dropped from 15th to 19th. 
Even with the recent losses and drops in the rankings, the Irish will have a chance to prove themselves one last time this weekend. Tennessee is a strong contender to make the NCAA tournament, and Wake Forest, like Notre Dame, is a team on the bubble. Strong showings this week could help both the team and Barton and Harris as individuals. 
Said Barton, "We were so close in Utah that we have to keep a positive attitude. It would be great if we could win these two matches. This year has been hard. We've had a much tougher schedule, and it is easy to get overwhelmed. Every match turns out to be tough." 
"The injuries have hurt," con­tinued Barton. "I've had a sore arm, Katie (Clark) is out with back problems, and Christy (Faustmann) had mono. We have never really had everyone at full strength at the same time. It would have been inter­esting to see how the season would have been had everyone been healthy." 
The Irish play Tennessee on Friday and then take on Wake Forest on Saturday. Both matches are at the University of Tennessee. 
Once the season is over, the Irish can look back at their accomplishments and wait until late April to see if they will make the NCAA tournament field. 
Louderback said, "We played extremely well against BYU and Utah. If we can play like we did then, we'll have a shot at win­ning both matches. It would be nice to finish this season on a strong note." 

:YOU:ASKED :FoR:BANDS: 
....

SO:WE':RE BRINGING:YOU~ •• •• 
CHRONIC::DESIRE 
r---· -------···----­

: TO NlGUT AT !II.U ~~~~d :::;:;:~;';-=;:;nl
:::::::::::::::::::::::: %CLUBI 
::::::::::::::::::::::::­
························-,;. 
.. 
r;J' ir·rlr' ''JJ·~r J r·l ·...._,1 ,·r-r'r) ·-..,.,;'1. 0! 111 I(~ I rj r"J. ""..JJ. rn·l (r:"·
1! ;_!. :f\, . .!l,l I'•,, .L. :J 1'·~ IJ .. !LJ •J ·D J 1'•., !J.l) .2) 
(not performing at NAZZ) 
THE STUDENT UNION BURRO MUSIC COMMISSION IS LOOKING FOR RN OPENING BRND FOR THE GUESS WHO SCHEDULED TO PLAY ON SATURDAY, APRIL 27. DROP TAPES OF ORIGINALS TO BE JUDGED IN THE MUSIC COMMISSION MA ILBOH IN THE SUB OFFICE ON THE SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
THE DERDL INE FOR ENTRIES IS FRIDAY, APRIL 12 AT 5PM. 
challenge for softball team 
third baseman Stefanie Hayes
By JIM VOGL 
and senior outfielder Jaqui
Sports Writer 
Pitts. Pitts leads the MCC with 18 stolen bases in 24 games.
Women's Notre Dame softball 
Junior first baseman Debbie
coach Brian Boulac anticipates 
Halukowicz tops the MCC invery competitive action in his 
both batting average (.408) and
team's double header this 
RBI (18).
Saturday in Detroit. 
The pitching staff is lead by
The Lady Titans enter the 
junior Teresa Emery, who
contest with a 16-10 record and boasts a 9-5 record and a 2.03
are among the top contenders 
ERA and impressed Boulac with 
to win the Midwestern 
last year's performance.
Collegiate Conference. 
"Emery has been the main­"To me, Detroit is the team to 
stay of their staff for the lastbeat in the conference," said two years and is an excellent
Boulac. 
control pitcher," said Boulac.
The Irish hope to extend their 
The Irish and Lady Titans
lead in the series with Detroit, 
match up well as a team.
which stands at 3-2 after a pair Detroit's .244 batting averageof pivotal 1-0 victories last sea­leads the MCC. They rank sec­son. 
ond in team defense (. 942) and
Last season, Notre Dame 
fourth in pitching (2.08 ERA).
broke the Lady Titans' streak of By comparison, the Irish arethree MCC crowns, as Detroit 
second in batting average
placed third behind the Irish. 
(.232), first in fielding (.951)
This season, the Irish are 6-0 in 
and second in pitching (1. 7 3 
MCC action, while Detroit has 
ERA).
yet to play a conference game. 
"Detroit always does a goodThe Lady Titans return seven job of recruiting and will defi­letter-winners from last year's nitely have a solid club, " said33-18 squad, led by two of last Boulac.
year's All-MCC players-.junior 
Irish men's track heads south for Tennessee's Dogwoods 
By LYNNE BRAGG Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track and field team travels to Knoxville, Tennessee this weekend to compete in the annual Dogwood Relays. The Irish team did not compete in the meet last year, but Coach Joe Piane is looking forward to his team competing this year. 
"I think this is an excellent meet for our kids to compete in, " Piane says. "It gives them some opportunities to meet some top athletes before they race in the Central Collegiates (May 4) and the ICAAAAs (May 18-19). The meet has been traditionally strong with SEC 
teams  participating  and  I  
expect  the  field  to  be  no  
different this year. "  

Notre Dame has already qualified several members to compete in the ICAAAA com­petition. Amongst these are junior Raghib Ismail (1 00 meters), sophomore Mike O'Connor (5,000 meters), and senior Scott Vandenberg (400 meters). Ismail is also a pro­visional NCAA qualifier, which 
means he may participate in 
the NCAA meet at the close of 
this season. 
The men's track team enters the Dogwood Relays after hosting their first outdoor meet this season this past weekend. The Irish topped the men's competition with 71 points over St.John's, Drake, and Western Michigan in the quad meet. 
The Irish had a strong showing with great performances from, Ismail, Vandenberg, Pat Kearns, and sophomore Nick Radkewich. Kearns placed first in the 5,000 meters (14:49.57) while teammate Radkewich followed to take third (14:55.00) 
Piane was pleased with Radkewich's performance. 
"Nick did a good job," Piane said. "He ran intelligently throughout the whole race and didn't let up." 
Greg Matteo (pole vault), Todd Herman (high jump), and John Smerek (discus) all qualified for the ICAAAA this past weekend. 
Piane expects an intense meet this weekend and hopes for several leaders this weekend. 
"We're looking to get good performances from O'Connor and Ryan Cahill in the 5,000, Ismail in the 100, and a handful of guys who will be competing in the high jump, discus and hammer events." 
FREE 

TANNING 
I.Buy4* sessions at the regula71 I price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 

1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE~EA~ 
l[,t_lalr_"ff'~ ;:;::~~ ('o) 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTlJA.!O 

GRAPE AD. MISHAWAKA 
277-l~ 
Dally 9-8 S<~t. 9~ • Sun. 11·5 

page 20 The Observer Friday, April 12, 1991 
Henderson falls short in bid for steal mark; Reds brawl 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -Rickey Henderson was caught stealing and later pulled up lame to re­main stuck one steal shy of ty­ing Lou Brock's all-time career stolen base record, and the Oakland Athletics defeated Minnesota 3-0. 
Angels 5, Mariners 0 
SEATTLE -Mark Langston, trying to rebound from the most disappointing season of his career, pitched six strong innings and the California Angels beat Seattle for a three­game sweep and their best start in 21 years. 
Indians 6, Red Sox 4 
BOSTON -Brook Jacoby


ll \ 
I. drove in three runs and the 
MCC 
continued from page 24 
and played injured players, and they couldn't play next week, it would be a pyrrhic victory," said Bayliss. 
With those players out, everyone will slide up in the ladder, meaning that sophomore Chuck Coleman will assume the number-one slot for the Irish. Moving in to play fifth 
ROCKNE 
continued from page 24 
Four Notre Dame students stopped on the way to Tempe, Ariz., for the 1989 Fiesta bowl, at which the Fighting Irish won the national championship. 
"While they were here," Stedry said in front of the monument, "one of them said, 'Fellas, don't you think we ought to say a prayer?' That really gets to you, four college guys saying a prayer in the middle of the prairie." 
Prayers were said again at the monument on March 23, when the first memorial tribute to the crash victims took place. Stedry, the local historical soci­ety and the Chase County Leader-News organized it. 
They attracted 271 people, including Rockne's daughter (Mrs. Jean Kochendorfer of Tulsa), her son and grandchil­dren, and the children and grandchildren of John Happer, a sporting goods salesman on the flight. 

Easter Heathman and AI Baker, the young man on horseback who went for the ambulance, told their stories, as did other witnesses. Mrs. Kochendorfer remarked on howi nice it was that so many people came to pay tribute to the
i 
victims. 

~ 
"She didn't say, ' ... to her fa­ther,'" Heathman said. "She! said ' ... for the people that per­I ished.' I admired her for that.
I 
_·, ) Everybody had been saying, 'Knute Rockne and seven others.'" 
Several days later, Heathman turned his truck north off the rutted path and pulled to a stop where the wing had fallen to the ground. 
"It's been 60 years since I stood on this spot right here," Heathman said, sitting in his 1977 Ford pickup. Out his win­dow and just behind his left shoulder, the Rockne Memorial held vigil, dwarfed by the Flint Hills, but no less permanent. 
American+
Red Cross 

turned nasty about it, starting a Mets 6, Expos 3 bench-clearing brawl on a NEW YORK Wally behind-the-back fastball by Rob Whitehurst marked his 27th Dibble. birthday by pitching a career­
After Astros reliever Curt high seven innings in his first Schilling hit an RBI single in his victory as a starter. first big league at-bat in the ninth inning, Dibble threw his Whitehurst, who earned a next pitch behind Eric Yelding's spot in the rotation after Sid belt. Yelding charged the Fernandez fractured his left mound, threw his helmet and arm during spring training, al­hit Dibble in the left shoulder, lowed five hits, struck out three and then tried to tackle him .. and walked one. 
,... r  'I'Ite ObserY-er.  ""  
is looking for students interested in the paid position of Purchasing Agent  
Freshman and sophomore business majors interested in gaining valuable business and managerial experience which could possibly lead to promotion within the business department should contact Gil Gomez at 239-7471 for more information.  
\. ...  ~  

Cleveland Indians spoiled the debut of Danny Darwin with a 6-4 win over the Red Sox. 
Tigers 11, Yankees 5 
DETROIT -Cecil Fielder drove in three runs and scored four times as the Detroit Tigers beat the New York Yankees. 
Blue Jays 7, Brewers 3 
TORONTO -Offseason ac­quistions Devon White and Joe Carter continuted the spark the Toronto offense and David Wells pitched eight strong innings. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Giants 11, Padres 9 

SAN DIEGO -Will Clark and Kevin Mitchell hit RBI singles in the 1Oth inning as San Francisco recovered after blowing a six-run lead to beat San Diego 11-9 Thursday. 
Dodgers 4, Braves 2 
ATlANTA -Ramon Martinez started his season with eight strong innings and Brett Butler had three hits as Los Angeles swept the two-game series. 
Cardinals 5, Cubs 4 
CHICAGO-Lee Smith retired Shawon Dunston on a fly ball with the bases loaded to end Chicago's two-run rally in the ninth. 
Astros 4, Reds 1 CINCINNATI -Cincinnati fell out of first place for the first time in more than a· year and 

singles will be Chris Wojtalik, while 6-5, 220 freshman Tom North will play at number six. 
Coleman will team with Will Forsythe, in the absence of DiLucia, at first doubles. Bayliss hasn't decided on his second doubles team, although the two will come from the group of Ron Rosas, Mark Schmidt and Wojtalik. Todd Wilson and Tad 
Eckert  will play  number­ 
doubles.  
The  MCC  Conference  

Championships is a flighted 
tournament, meaning that each position has its own championship. For instance, the champion at fifth singles does not compete with anyone playing number-one singles, and there is a separate pool for the different positions. 
After the Irish return from this tournament, they will face Michigan at home on Wednesday, their final home match of the season. 


One Hundred Years of Catholic Social Thought 1891-1991 April .14 -:1. 7, 1.99:1. Schedule of Events 
The Center for Conti.Dulng Educadoa 

f\otre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious
MONDAY, APRIL 15 

Values in Business 
The Social Role of the Cathollc Church In Our Time 
9:00a.m.• Session I Joan D. Chittister, O.S.B., Benedictine Sisters Erie Pennsylvania "New World, New Church: Political, Pasto~ or'Prophetic?" Richard P. McBrien, Crowley-O'Brien-Walter Professor of Theology "An Ecclesiastical Analysis of Catholic Social Teaching" Chair: Jay P. Dolan, Director, Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism 
I 0:45 a.m .. Session 2 Jean-Yves Calvez, S.J., Etudes, Paris "Is the Social Role of the Church Changing?" 
J. Bryan Heir, Counselor for Social Policy, U.S. Catholic Conference 
"Catholicism's Social Role: Leo XIII, Vatican II and John Paul II" Chair: Jean Porter, Theology 
2:30p.m. Session 3 

M. Shawn Copeland, O.P., Professor of Theology and Black Studies Yale University Divinity School ' "Catholic Social Teaching in the Modem World: Three Dilemmas" Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President Emeritus 
"Observations on a Possible New World Order" Chair: John J. Gilligan, Director, Institute for International Peace Studies 
5:15 p.m. Uturgy at Sacred Heart Church Celebrant: Agostino Cardinal Casaroli . Homilist: Archbishop Denis E. Hurley, O.M.I.. Music: Notre Dame liturgical Choir 
8:00 p.m. Session 4-KEYNOTE ADDRFSS Speak~r : Agosti~o Cardinal Casaroli, Fonner Secretary of State, Vatican. 
The Functions and Future of International Institutions" Introduction: Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., President 
Friday, April 12, 1991 The Observer page 21 
Nicklaus masterful in first round of prestigious tourney 
AUGUSTA, Ga. (AP) -Jack Nicklaus sent a message to Nick Faldo. 
It was a 4-under-par 68 that said, clear as could be, "Not yet Nick. I'm not yet quite ready to relinquish the mastery of the Masters." 
Nicklaus, 51, a six-time a winner and four-time runner-up in golrs annual rite of spring, led a list of old folks who rose up to challenge Faldo's march to Masters history on Thursday. 
Nicklaus was joined by Tom Watson, Lanny Wadkins, Japan's Jumbo Ozaki and U.S. Open champion Hale Irwin as potential roadblocks on Faldo's path to an unprecedented third consecutive Masters title. 
Wadkins, 41, Mark McCumber and Jim Gallagher were tied for the first-round lead with 5­under 67s. 
Watson, 41, and Ozaki, 44, were with Nicklaus, Fred Couples and Jose Maria Olazabal at 68 after one trip 
around an unusually forgiving Augusta National Golf Club course that, according to Nicklaus, presented "awfully good scoring conditions." 
Generally considered the outstanding player in golf today, Faldo is attempting to become the first man to win three consecutive Masters. 
"I played good and didn't make the most of it," Faldo tossed over his shoulder as he hurried through and out of the clubhouse. 
He went to two under with a 12-15 foot eagle putt on the par-5 13th, but flubbed a chip and bogeyed 14, then drifted back to par after he missed the 18th green. 
Phil Mickelson, the 20-year­old amateur sensation who won the Tucson Open earlier this season, was in a large group at 69 and became the first left­bander to ever break 70 in the Masters. 
Mickelson, a two-time NCAA 
·champion from Arizona State and the current U.S. Amateur champion, played in a twosome with Faldo. 
"He's just setting himself up," Mickelson said. "He's not concerned with one round. He's thinking of the whole tournament. 
Irwin, 45, shot 70, two ahead of Faldo and far in front of some other foreign favorites. 
Seve Ballesteros of Spain, a two-time winner here, shot 75. Former Masters winner Sandy Lyle of Scotland three-putted his way to a 77. 
And Greg Norman, the Australian who said he's troubled by burnout, went to an unlikely 78, a number that surprised his good friend Nicklaus. 
Nicklaus said he told his wife "I have a feeling that if I don't win this tournament Greg will. I'm really surprised he didn't play better." 
Nicklaus also was a little 

surprised by his own play. 
"I didn't hit a lot of good shots early on, but the ball just kept going in the hole," he said. 
Mter pulling his drive into an adjacent fairway off the first tee, he lofted an iron over the pine trees to within 5 feet and made the birdie putt. He scored from shorter range on the next, then chipped in from about 80 feet on the fourth. 
"Some of it is a carry-over from last week," he said. 
Nicklaus, now more a golden oldie than a Golden Bear, came into his 33rd Masters fresh from a victory on the Senior Tour last week. 
And there's no question he's entertaining visiOns of becoming the only man to win on both tours in the same season. 
"You can look at it as it might be your last chance to win a Masters," he said. 
Wadkins, the first man off the tee, one-putted 11 times, romped around the course in 3 hours, 25 minutes and compiled the best score he's ever had in this tournament. 
It's one stroke better than the closing 68 he had here a year ago, and prompted the jaunty Wadkins to comment: 
"If I can keep on improving a shot a day, I won't have any trouble." 
While that is something more than unlikely, Wadkins noted he was "putting better than I have been since I've been on the tour." 
Watson, who has two Masters championships to go with his five British Open titles, used a zebra putter for only the third or fourth time in his career in an attempt to cure the putting miseries that have plagued his try for a comeback from a four­season non-winning string. 
And the comeback, he said, is nearly complete. 
Just Chillin' puts Team 179 on ice with 21-4 win; Paradise Jam wins 
By RENE FERRA N effort of Bill Lane, rolled to a Gerry's Kids meet NO's Most 21-5 win over Box and One. Wanted in the round of 256.
Associate Sports Editor 
"We beat them, but they were Freshman Pat Goggins scored a good scrimmage team, and nine points to lead it past Wow!
Just Chillin', one of the top 
they had a cool name," said There's No Fine Along with thatseeds in this year's Bookstore teammate Kevin Bugos. Censorship 21-6. 
Basketball tournament, cruised 
Lane concurred. "We're ready Team 664 scored eightinto the second round yesterday to take on anybody," he said. straight points to open up aafternoon with a 21-4 victory The long run was not too long close game with A Hairyover Team 179. 
for Dead in the Long Run, frrst­Mexican and His Four Meatless
Even without 1990 second­
round casualties to another of Tacos and advance 21-11. 
team All-Bookstore member 
the top 16 seeds, Paradise Jam, "The key was we controlledRay Griggs, who was at football 
21-9. Tony Livingston's nine the boards," said Mike
practice, Just Chillin' took less 
points paced Paradise Jam, Sheehan, who along with Tim
than 20 minutes to dispose of 
which advances to face Our Peterson led Team 664 with
its outclassed opponents. 
Party Balls Flow-21-15 eight points apiece. "Most of
Senior Rich McGillicuddy 
winners over Five Orange our baskets came ofT offensive
scored eight points to lead a 
Whips-in the second round. rebounds."
balanced attack for the victors. 
In other first-round action, It took The High Rollers over­"I think we looked good, but seniors Matt Sande and Chris time before defeating We'll Win 
we haven't played that much 
Klose combined for 19 points to with Sanctions 22-20 on Stepan
together yet," said junior Joe 
lead Gerry's Kids past Skanky Court #2, and on Stepan Court
Fulton. "We have to develop 
Fishheads 21-7. #4, Jane Doe outlasted Dangling some chemistry, because there "We took it to them inside," Furies 27-25. 
are other teams that have bet­said Sande, who shot 10-13. "It was pretty funny becauseter talent, and we need to com­
"We boxed them out well, got it seemed like this game waspensate." 
all the rebounds, and then took going to be over so many
Their opponent in the next 
advantage; Chris had at least times," Jane Doe freshman
round is Armed and Dangerous, 
five layups off the fastbreak." Darren Cook said.
which behind the nine-point 
~®~Lr ~®W9 

~£Lr ~1]lr;rn~ 
The Observer/Sean Farnan Action behind the bookstore from the sectional round. BookstoreMOVING • AUTO • SPENDING MONEY tourmament games continue at Stepan. 
SECURITY DEPOSIT • WARDROBE 
Seniors, when you graduate, you'll have expenses and we would like to help! We have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of. employment when you apply to save time. 
II:?_-~ h 
~ NEW AUTO· 9.75°/o APR, 60 mont s to repay, fixed rate. VIII MAY QUALH FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWM LOANS BASBJ 11\1 YOUR SIGNATillE. -MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your 
first year as part of this special offer. ~ QUICK CASH· 13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this ~ loan, you simply write a check! 
~,,'~ RELOCATION· 9.1% APR, fixed rate, 12 months to
.. ~ repay. You must also have our Mastercard and line-of-credit. Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Separate from the Unlve~lly 

-, 
--~----­
page 22 


' The Observer Frida~ April 12,1991 
·' 
.'; 
')\" \' Bruins defeat Hartford after fluke Bourque score 
.· ~ 
'~~ (AP) -It's the simplest play 
It 
\\ in hockey. The defenseman crosses the red line, shoots the puck into the opposition's zone and his forwards chase after it. 
/. I Sometimes they get it, sometimes the defenders clear the zone. And once in a while, something strange happens ­like it did for the Boston Bruins on Thursday night in Game 5 of their Adams Division semifinal series against Hartford. Boston defenseman Ray Bourque went to shoot the puck into the zone early in the third period. Instead, his shot hit Hartford's Paul Cyr and wound up in the Whalers' net-tying the game at 1-1 and triggering a six-goal outburst as the Bruins rolled to a 6-1 win and a 3-2 lead in the series. "That's the first time I've ever scored a goal like that. I've taken a lot of shots," Bourque said. "Whenever you score, it's a release of tension, especially when it's a 1-0 hockey game." Bourque carried the puck out of his own zone and shot an SO­footer from just in front of the red line. It slid toward the right side of the net and goaltender Peter Sidorkiewicz began 

moving that way. But the puck deflected off Cyr's right leg about five feet in front of the Whalers' blue line. Before Sidorkiewicz could scramble back, the puck crossed the left side of the goal line at 1:20. 
The Whalers had controlled the first two periods but managed only one goal -Brad Shaw's slap shot past Andy Moog at 7:16 of the second period. Bourque's fluke goal let all the air out of their hopes. 
"Something like that usually does change the momentum," Hartford coach Rick Ley said. "It seemed to deflate us and give them a big lift." 
The Bruins capitalized on the momentum swing as Dave Christian scored the go-ahead goal just 16 seconds later. Jeff Lazro made it 3-1 at 8:05 and the rout was on. 
"It happened pretty quick," Sidorkiewicz said. "We were ahead 1-0 and we had the game in control, and, all of a sudden ... we're not even in the game anymore." 
Cam Neely had two power­play goals and Jim Wiemer added another to complete the six-goal burst. 
"We played very well for two periods, then fell apart in the third," Ley said. 
The four Campbell Conference opening-round series resume tonight. 
In the Norris Division semifinals, Minnesota and Chicago are tied 2-2 going into Game 5 at Chicago Stadium and St. Louis plays host to Detroit, which leads the series 3-1. 
In the Smythe Division, Los Angeles plays host to Vancouver after the teams split the first four games and Edmonton takes a 3-1 series lead into Game 5 at Calgary. 
ADAMS DIVISION Habs 4, Sabres 3, OT 
Courtnall, a speedy right wing, played most of the game as if he had a sore leg. But he turned on the speed in the overtime when he took Guy Carbonneau's pass and beat 
Clint  Malarchuk  on  a  
breakaway at 5:56.  
"That  was  probably  my  

biggest goal ever," said Courtnall, who scored his second career Stanley Cup overtime goal and his fifth in the five games against Buffalo. "It was exciting. I felt bad 



the first clinic for the 1991-92 tryouts is Sunday, Rpril 14th from 1:00 pm to 4:00 pm in the pit of the JRCC. 
Hope to see you there! Noemi & Rosella 

1 
' l 
! \ 
~ 

PomPon 
Squad 
Reminder: 

because I didn't get the puck out of our zone and we took a penalty and they tied it up. I felt that was my fault." 
Courtnall missed practice on Wednesday and labored for most of the game, but he and the team denied he was injured. 
Buffalo overcame 2-0 and 3-2 deficits, forcing the overtime on Dave Andreychuk's power-play goal with 3:05 left in regulation. 
''I don't feel like we're out of it," said defenseman Grant Ledyard, whose second-period goal tied the game at 2-2. "We played a good game tonight and we'll play even better in Buffalo." 
PATRICK DIVISION Devils 4, Penguins 2 

A player named Lemieux again got the big goal -but it was New Jersey's Claude, not Pittsburgh's Mario, whose power-play goal with 7:01 left in regulation broke a 2-2 tie. 
Claude Lemieux scored his third goal in two games by batting Kirk Muller's pass behind Tom Barrasso for New Jersey's third power-play goal of the game. Doug Brown put the game away with an empty­netter. 
John MacLean and Bruce Driver gave New Jersey a 2-0 lead in the first period, but Ron Francis and Larry Murphy scored early in the third period to tie the score. Pittsburgh outshot New Jersey 41-24, including 20-10 in the third period, but Chris Terreri made 39 saves. 
Capitals 5, Rangers 4, OT 
Dino Ciccarelli, coming off the worst season of his career, scored at 6:44 of overtime on Washington's 55th shot as the Capitals moved within one victory of eliminating the Rangers for the second straight year. 
Ciccarelli, who had just 21 goals in 54 games and none after Feb. 24, picked up a loose puck, circled out from behind the net and banked the puck off goaltender Mike Richter's stick. 

"I just tried to get it on net," Ciccarelli said after scoring his 41st career playoff goal and third in overtime. "You never know what can happen. Richter just moved his stick in the wrong place and I was fortunate." 
SPORTS SHORTS 

Wall Street traders big losers in NCAA pool 
•NEW YORK -What probably began as a friendly office pool on the NCAA basketball tournament ended up costing three Wall Street traders their jobs and left another worker $330,000 in debt. 
Elaborate, high-stakes betting pools were set up at many Wall Street firms, where individual teams are assigned a share price based on their expected performance, then traded like stocks. 
The gambling apparently got out of hand at Smith Barney, where three low-level bond trading employees were fired last week "for conduct inconsistent with the standards of the firm," spokesman Bob Connor said. 
A clerical assistant at PaineWebber resigned about the time the firm began an investigation into the NCAA pool, spokeswoman Beverly Spano said. 
That employee reportedly sold Duke stock short, that is, sold stock that he did not yet own with the hope that the price would go down and he could make money. 
The employee is not expected to be able to repay his $330,000 debt. 
Basiwr enlightens Dawgs 
•AT NS, Ga. -Actress Kim Basinger returned to her hometown to dedicate a new lighting system at the tennis courts where her father and her brothers once played. 
She told about 2,500 at Georgia's Henry Feild Stadium Wednesday that she had only one thing to say before she dedicated the lights which she helped donate. 
"I'm supposed to say, 'Turn on the lights,' but there's a phrase that goes with Georgia football, basketball, baseball and tennis that I want to say first -'Go Dawgs.' Now, turn on the lights." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Sports 
Briefs are accepted, in writing, at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune during business hours. All briefs must be in before five to guarantee next day printing. 

•The 
ND Martial Arts Institute will hold its annual Black belt testing on Saturday, April 13, in room 301 of the Rockne Memorial starting at 1:00 pm. All are welcome to attend. 

•ND/SMC 
Sailing Club: There will be practice everyday at 3:00 pm. For more information, call Eric Bremer at 288-9359. 

•Bookstore 
games during the weekdays are at 4:00, 4:45, 5:30, and 6:15. 

•ND/SMC 
Synchronized Swim Club will present their second annual Spring Show on Sunday, April 14 at 1:00 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Admission is free. 

•An 
Tostal '91 is holding its annual event sign-ups from 4-6 pm in the S.U.B. office on the second floor of LaFortune. The golf tourney, road rally, slam dunk contest, and other events can be signed up for at these times. Friday April 12 is the last day. 

•Non-Varsity 
Athletics will sponsor an open volleyball tournament Friday, April 12 from 7 PM to 10 PM at the JACC fieldhouse. Triples and sis-on-six matches will be held. Bring a team or meet partners there. No advance registration necessary. 

•Notre 
Dame Rugby plays its first home match this Saturday at 


1:00 pm against Illinois State. The game is on the field behind Stepan Center. All are welcome to attend. 
Friday, April 12, 1991 
The Observer page 23 
-.. 

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Friday ACROSS 30 Stuff 56 Epic about the 33 Brilliant fish Trojan War 
1 "--ofhurt 

9:30 a.m.-3:30 pm. Workshop: "When Women Speak the minds": Shak. 34Mr.--, 57 Stupefy 
Word of God," Kathleen Cannon, associate provost, Knott Hall. 5 Capital of White bumbling 59 "Vissi d'-," cartoon
Sponsored by the Year of Women. Russia Puccini aria 
character

2 p.m. Piano recital: Adrian Daly, Annenberg Auditorium, 10 Jason's ship 60A Hawkins 
35 What to give it 

Snite Museum. • 
14 Sector 61 A Best 
36POOR PALS

7:30 and 9:45 p.m. Film: "Reversal of Fortune," Annenberg 
t 5 Fragrance 62 Baron, e.g. 
Auditorium, Snite Museum. Sponsored by the Notre Dame 16 Cordelia's 40--Zedong 
63 He threw to 
communication and theater department. father 4t Banish 
Chance

7:45-9 p.m. Keynote address: "Democratization in Global 17 Expensive 42"For-usa 
64 Sea in 

Perspective," Ronald Inglehart, department of political science, t8 Syncope child ..." 
Antarctica

University of Michigan, Room C-1 03 Hesburg Center. 43 "Banners flout 
19 Gentle soul 
the--": Shak.

Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
20RAGES

8 and 10:30 p.m. Film: "Pump Up the Volume," Cushing 44 Ramble DOWN 
23 Gulf off Yemen 

Auditorium. Sponsored by the. Student Union Board. 45 Peter Rabbit's 
1 German bath 24 Wood for skis 
creator

and bats 2 Olympic hawk 
47 A cont. 

25 Org. for A. J. 3 Sculpture by
48 Some lights

Foyt Michelangelo 49SAMS
28 Three-year-old 4 Strolling salmon 55 Tilt Mexican 

musician MENU 5 Overcome -----------------------ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE & Author Shaw: 
Notre Dame 
1913-84 7 Hands-up time 27 "Stompin' at the 45 Nice Nellies 51 A Norwegian 
a Problem in "La Corn Dusted Rolls La Land" " 46 A mil. school king Fried Fish Boats 28 Sugar source 52 Group of
9 Kind of court 47 Fall bloomer 
pheasants

Broiled Haddock a la Mode 29 Bugaboo
to Islam's deity 48 "-exchange 53 Church
French Bread Cheese Pizza 
t 1 Build 30 Didn't exist is no robbery" 
calendar 31 Marble
12 Legs, slangily 49 Lunar region 54 Sisters 32 Sorrow, to 55 Casquette
13 Earth is one so Bellum or date Saint Mary's 21 Govt. watchdog Shelley preceder 58 Ammonia, e.g. org. 34 Twice DCCLII Herb Fried Chicken 22 Bar at the bar 37Villeins 
Answers to any three clues in this Baked Fish 25 Standards 38 Drive out evil puzzle are available by touch-tone Jumbo Burger 26"... --in spirits phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each Deli Bar Darien": Keats 39 Peregrine minute). 
GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE 




Early but unsuccessful practical jokes 


Sports 
' page 24 Friday, April 12, 1991 
lt ND softball outlasts DePaul with two consecutive wins 
f 

By COQUESE WASHINGTON Sports Writer 
The afternoon air was a bit chilly, but that didn't prevent the Irish softball team from burning DePaul for two more victories at the Notre Dame Softball Field. 
Backed by outstanding pitch­ing and tenacious defense, the Irish finished the day with 1-0 and 2-0 wins, their first ever against a Blue Demon squad, while raising their season record to 18-16. 
Coach Brian Boulac was quite pleased with the afternoon's results. 
"This is definitely a big win for us," he said. "It shows that we 
I 
\ can compete with the good 
' teams on our schedule, and hopefully this win will set the tone for the rest of our season." Missy Linn, the all-time Notre Dame leader in wins and holder of a host of Irish pitching records, won the opener for the Irish, throwing nine strikeouts, 
with only four hits and two walks. 
In the first inning of the opener, big plays came from two Irish freshman. A Blue Demon error allowed Carrie Miller to get on first. A sacrifice took her to second, and a single by Christy Connoyer placed runners on both first and third. A double steal by the duo brought Miller home, scoring the only run of the game, while Connoyer was thrown out a second. 
Irish upperclassmen took over the nightcap. 
In the second inning, senior Megan Fay lead off with a sin­gle, and got to second on a sac­rifice by Debbie Boulac. Amy Fulsom, a junior from South Dakota, then singled, and one out later, Kathy Vernetti, an­other senior, hit a double to right field, bringing both run­ners in for the only points of the game. 
Staci Alford grabbed the sec­ond win of the day for the Irish. Alford, who is 7-3 on the year, 

The Observer/John Rock A DePaul baserunner is tagged out during the first game's of Notre Dame's doubleheader sweep of the Blue Demons. This weekend, the Irish play a doubleheader at Detroit. 
pitched a four-hitter, walking  fine games, and our defense  "team to beat in the conference  
only one DePaul player while  made big plays when neces­ [Midwestern  Collegiate  
striking out four.  sary."  Conference]."  The squad trav­ 
"Our pitching was outstanding  The Irish's next challenge  els  to  Detroit  on  Saturday,  
today," praised Coach Boulac.  comes in the form of the Detroit  where doubleheader action be­ 
"Missy and Staci both pitched  Titans, billed by Boulac as the  gins at 3:30p.m.  

Men's tennis team optimistic about MCC tournament 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 

The 19th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team gets a respite from its grueling schedule of top-25 opponents this weekend when it travels to St. Louis to compete in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships. 
Considering the dominance of the Irish in the past two years, it would be easy for the Irish to look past this event to their next round of ranked opponents. However, Coach Bob Bayliss is trying to avoid this outlook, but at the same time he is optimistic about his team's chances. 
"We're in the MCC. We should go out there and win the conference because we're the best team," he said. 
In the past two years, the Irish have owned the MCC championships. Both of those years the Irish have won all six singles titles and all three doubles crowns, while Bayliss has garnered coach of the year honors in those two years. 
All the same, Notre Dame is taking the meet too seriously, since the upcoming dual meets with Ball State, Michigan and Wisconsin will be more crucial for Irish hopes of an NCAA tournament berth. 
"It's (the meet) important, we want to do well," said Bayliss, but added, "If we win the MCC, we're champs, but it doesn't do anything for us. There's no automatic bid." 
So in that spirit, Bayliss has elected to rest some of his top players who could use the time off. Junior David DiLucia, ranked third in the nation in singles, will stay home to rest his back. Andy Zurcher, who injured his hand against Duke, will give that hurt additional time to heal, while senior Ryan Wenger is sitting out the MCC's to take the dental school entrance exams. 
"David's (DiLucia) back is 
100%, but this is the kind of thing you don't want to risk," said Bayliss. 
"Zurcher's hand isn't quite ready," continued Bayliss. "He fell on it at Duke, and it swelled up to the size of a catcher's mitt. The swelling's gone down, and he could probably play if absolutely necessary. (However) we want to err on the side of caution. 
"If we won the conference 
see MCC/ page 20 
Image of Rockne's tragic death still a vivid memory 
By IVAN MAISEL Staff Writer, The Dallas Morning News 
Editor's Note: This story originally appeared in The Dallas Morning News March 31, 1991-the 60th anniversary of the death of Knute Rockne. It is reprinted here with permission of The Dallas Morning News. This is the second oftwo parts. 
The Heathmans piled into their 1930 Chevy pickup, stopped off for Easter's uncle and cousin and headed through the pasture. Art and Ed Baker, whose father, S.H. Baker, owned the ranch where the plane crashed, had ridden their horses to the wreckage. When Art saw it, he turned and went to call ambulances. 
Wichita would have been the first of four stops between Kansas City and Los Angeles. Rockne had taken the train from South Bend to Chicago that Monday afternoon and the overnight train to Kansas City. According to the 1975 book, We Remember Rockne, Irish freshman coach Bill Jones asked Rockne, "Why can't you go by train? They're a lot safer." 
"No, they're not," Rockne told him. "You don't read your statistics." Besides, Rockne said, he wanted to be home for Easter the following Sunday. Low clouds and choppy air dogged the plane from the time it left Kansas City at 
9:15 a.m. The pilots, Fry and Mathias, contemplated turning around, but G.A. O'Reilly, the radio operator in Wichita, indicated the weather was clear. At 
10:45 a.m., as O'Reilly entered on his log sheet, he asked if the pilots could get through. He received no answer. He asked again. 
"Don't know yet," the answer came. 

ND Sports Information Notre Dame's 1930 National Championship football team, coach Knute Rockne's last before his death in a plane crash March 31, 1931. 
"Don't know yet." He would not hear from the pilots again. 
The plane had come down at a sharp angle, nose first, directly into the ground. The force flipped the back of the plane over so that the tail stood upside down, "12 or 13 feet in the air," Heathman said. 
A wing ripped from the plane in the air and sailed to the ground about three-eighths of a mile to the northeast. Mail bags were strewn between the wing and the wreckage. 
"There were five bodies lying out right to the west of the crash, 40 or 50 feet or so," Heathman said. "There was room to walk between them. Some of them had puncture wounds. Some were flat on their back, some on their side." 
There was no fire, "not a speck," he said. The odor of gasoline wafted heavily about, as did the smell of hot oil. None of the victims outside the plane showed any signs of blood, Heathman said. 

Within a short time, word of the crash reached Kansas City. The airline, which eventually would become known as TWA, released the passenger list. The local crowd that had gathered at the sight would soon be joined by a half­dozen planes that landed near the crash. Out spilled newspaper men and airline and aircraft executives. 
"We had no idea who was on that plane," Heathman said. "My grandfather called us the next day and told us. That still didn't mean anything. I still didn't know who Knute Rockne was." 
Rockne had appeared on plenty of newsreels at the local theater. He had starred in movie shorts about football. One reason for his trip to Los Angeles was to discuss another movie deal. 
"There was a guy who lived here and had seen every movie show that came to town," Heathman said. "He would spend his last dollar for gas and movie tickets." 
The man, Heathman said, stared at Rockne. "He kept saying 'That guy looks familiar to 11'(-e. I ought to know him,'" Heathman said. 
Rockne wore a rubber bandage around his right leg to help combat the phlebitis that had endangered his life. Heathman remembered a body being carried to an ambulance by stretcher. A rubber bandage trailed the stretcher through the mud. Heathman picked up the bandage and laid it beside the body. 
The Chase County sheriff posted deputies at the site for several days to stop souvenir hunters. The sheriff removed the guards on April 4. That night, people appeared at the site with shovels. One of the passengers, H.J. Christen, had removed $55,000 from his bank several days before the plane trip, and his wife did not know what he had done with it. 
Later that week, Mrs. Christen, searching for some of her husband's papers, discovered the money in a lock box. 
In the days following the crash, local residents placed a large flint rock at the site. The following Sunday-Easter-1,000 people parked cars beside the highway and trekked through the pasture. Now, Stedry said, he is asked to show the site every other weekend and sometimes during the week. 
see ROCKNE/page 20 


Friday.Apri112, 1991 A Supplement to the Observer 

IRISH BASEBALL
page 2 April12, 1991 
Irish baseball celebrates first 100 years 
Grueling road schedule tiring; quest for respect rolls onward 
By JENNIFER MARTEN said Murphy. "Nonetheless, I Sports Writer was proud of the way we played.'' 
They were 46-12 last year, Tulane University proved to they had the third best record be another hostile environment in the nation, but they were not for the Irish. Tulane, ranked invited to the NCAA's. 17th, defeated the team in an­
The Notre Dame baseball other close game, 5-3. team was not happy. "It was a game in which the 
Now, they are back with a luck of the Irish was not with vengeance. Their motto for the us," said Murphy. "To show season says it all: No retreat. you that it was unfortunate, we No surrender. No excuses. came out the next day and beat, 
Although the Irish are ready the third ranked team-LSU." to prove that they are one of The Irish won that contest 6­the best teams in the country, 3 against Bob Bird, one of the doing it could be difficult. top pitchers in the nation, 
The team opened their 1OOth before the march was on to the season with probably the most King Dome in Seattle and the grueling schedule in college College Baseball Classic. Air baseball-27 straight road Force fell first, 9-6. games against college baseball Northwestern, losing 7-0, was 
powerhouses such as Texas, the next victim of the red hot Louisiana State, and Stanford­Irish. just to prove that they could In front of the home crowd, play with the big names. Washington came up short 
The Irish began their season twice against the streaking in February at the Oakland A's Notre Dame team, first by a tournament in Phoenix, score of 9-7 and then 4-2. Arizona. Starting out the sea­Notre Dame's four game sweep son on the right track, the team won the tournament and ended defeated Dartmouth and the extremely successful break Nebraska. on a high note. 
The Nebraska win was a big The wear and tear of the victory for the Irish. It marked never-ending road games the first time in Notre Dame began to take its toll on the baseball history that they had squad. After a fifteen hour bus beaten a Big Eight team. The trip to Virginia, the team lost Irish lost a heartbreaker,12-11, two out of three to the against eleventh-ranked Ohio Cavaliers. The Irish lost the State in the championship first game 6-12. won the game. second 12-0 and lost the final 
The next weekend, the road game·2-5. trek continued at Texas who It was not the best way to was ranked third in the nation head into one of the college at the time. Notre Dame dealt baseball's best tournaments, Texas their worst loss in 2 5 the Oscar Mayer Classic in years, a 13-4 bashing. It was in Minneapolis, where Notre Notre Dame coach Pat Dame faced Minnesota. UCLA Murphy's words, "one of those and two-time national big upsets we've been noted champion Stanford. for." Stanford entered the eighth 
Stops at Trinity and Saint inning trailing Notre Dame, but Mary's also proved successful, came from behind to defeat the with the Irish sweeping double­Irish 7-3. Minnesota also 
headers against both teams. mounted a comeback effort in 
The team opened spring the late innings to beat the break competition with two Notre Dame squad. UCLA per­close losses in Mobile, petuated the Irish losing streak Alabama, at the Diamond Club with a 6-3 victory. Classic. South Alabama won 9-"At that point in the season, 7 and Michigan, ranked 12th, I'm not feeling all that bad," won 6-5. said Murphy. "We have not 
"It was South Alabama's been beaten in a game yet. tournament and it was very, We've beaten ourselves several very difficult surroundings," times, but no one's really took 
it to us." 

Conference play opened a cause we are Notre Dame, ev-victory whether it be week later at Evansville. The eryone is gunning for us," said offensively, defensively, or on Aces, who won the Midwestern the Irish coach. "They are the mound. The Notre Dame Collegiate Conference tourna­pumped to play Notre Dame. baseball squad is a team first ment last year, managed to Everywhere we go, we are the and individual players second. steal two of four games from marked team." Their strategy is simple. the Irish. Nonetheless, the baseball "We work hard to get better 
Conference play is a no-win team is enjoying continued sue-every day so that we'll be pre­situation for Notre Dame, said cess in the conference and in pared and be able to attain our Murphy. First, the MCC does the opening weeks of the sea-goals," said junior captain Joe not have an automatic bid to son. Defense, baserunning and Binkiewicz. the NCAA's. Second, the other pitching are all improving with Baseball is a game of wins teams in the conference get to every game. and losses, executions and er-play one of the fastest rising Each individual player has rors, good breaks and bad programs in the country, he made contributions to the team breaks. The Irish baseball team explained. and its success. In different has had its share of both the 
"Because we play such a big games, different players have good and the bad on their sea­schedule beforehand and be-risen up to lead the team to son-opening road trip. 
133-53-1, and in ~9. Notre Dame went to the NCAA tournament for the first time since 1970. 
More importantly, the Irish are now playing baseball Murphy-style, a hard­nosed, aggressive, get-your-shirt dirty kind of ball that, when combined with the type of talent on the Notre Dame roster, portends good things for the fu­ture of Irish baseball. 
What's in Murphy's future? As far as anyone can tell, he will probably be at Notre Dame for a while, although sometime he may look into a job in the majors, in a "situation where I'd be hand-picked to climb the ladder," he said. 
Murphy says he has had "numerous college offers," because, he says, "they know I'm young and stupid. I'd run through a brick wall for someone." 
As for now, though, he says "I really have no plans. I have too much to accomplish. I've only had three years of recruiting. We're just starting to realize our potential." 
Besides, there's still that mission thing. One gets the feeling that if the Notre Dame baseball team can approach their jobs with the same tenacity their coach showed in getting to Notre Dame, the Irish baseball program will have plenty of rewards to reap in the coming years. 

Cover photo by Kenneth Osgood  Contributing Editors: Dave Dieteman,  
Production by Lisa Bourdon  Rich Kurz, Dave McMahon and Anthony  
Design by Lisa Eaton  King  

Murphy 
continued from page 4 

Chief among those schools was Claremont-Mudd Scripps, where his teams compiled a 45-44-1 record over two seasons. 
At the end of that second season at Claremont, Murphy finally got his chance. One of the brothers of a Claremont student was a baseball player at Notre Dame, and when Irish coach Larry Gallo resigned at the end of the 1987 season, that player gave Murphy a call. 
First thing the next morning, Murphy was on the phone with then-athletic director Gene Corrigan. His aggressiveness on the telephone earned him an interview, and after the interview with Murphy, Corrigan ended the search for a new baseball coach at Notre Dame. 
Ten years and four rejection letters (from the admissions office) later, Pat Murphy had achieved his goal. He quest to be at Notre Dame was successful. He was the baseball coach of the team that plays in the shadow of the Golden Dome. 
Since that time, Murphy hasn't exactly rested on his laurels. In his first three seasons, Murphy's Irish teams have gone 

IRISH BASEBALL
April 12, 1991 page 3 
Talent-laden Irish look ahead to Xavier, NCAA's 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 
While the football and bas­ketball programs seem to steal the spotlight at Notre Dame, another Irish sports team has quietly established itself as a national power. 
Since Pat Murphy took over the head-coaching duties in 1988, the Notre Dame baseball team has seen tremendous success. 
After going 39-22 in Murphy's first year, the Irish followed with a 48-19-1 season, an NCAA tournament birth and a 46-12 season last year. That was the fourth-highest winning percentage in Division I (.793), yet the Irish were snubbed by the selection committee. Every year, the team has played better competition and 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

maintained their strong record. 
ABOVE: David Sinnes,pitching, shows the form that has helped to propel the Irish hurling staff among the best in the nation.
This weekend will mark the first home games for the Irish 
LEFT: Junior captain Joe Binkiewicz starts his swing. Binkiewicz
after 27 road contests to start 
off the season. Notre Dame (15-smacked three home runs and seven RBI in one game last week. He is 
12) hosts doubleheaders the third players to homer three times. and the second with seven RBI against Xavier on Saturday and in a game. Sunday. Both doubleheaders will start at noon and all the talent, returning eight starters college baseball until the end. I (2B) -"Greg has decided that are coming ofT an 18-30 season games will be played at Jake from last year. Sophomore Eric look for this team to get into he wants to be a great last year. In addition to all their Kline Field. Danapilis (.330BA, 20RBI, 3HR the regionals and do great ballplayer. He's a real exciting Midwestern Collegiate 
this season) and senior Frank things." player to watch and has been Conference foes, the Irish will 
"We played a murderous 27-Jacobs (.269BA, 19RBI, 8HR) Danapilis added, "It's been a unbelievable in the field." be hosting non-conference game schedule," said Murphy, anchor the Irish offense. Pat little frustrating, but the •On Frank Jacobs -"Frank is games against Indiana, Indiana "against the nation's best, all Leahy and David Sinnes, All­schedule has bettered us. The definitely the best power in col­State, Michigan and Western on the road. It's been very Americans as freshmen last travel has been rough. both lege baseball. He'll be the all­Michigan, all strong teams in strenuous on the players. Now year. along with freshman sen­physically and academically, time Notre Dame leader in the midwest. it is time for us to come home sation Tom Price, lead the but we don't make excuses. We home runs in only three years. and get in a rhythm." pitching staff. want to play the best teams to He's a fun one to watch and "We took on a purposefully 
MCC conference play begins see how good we are. To be the can change the course of a murderous schedule," said with the Xavier series this With such a brutal schedule, best. you have to play the best." game with just one play." Murphy, "just so we could weekend. Notre Dame domi­the Irish have managed a 15-12 The coach had these Murphy­•On Coveleski Stadium -"It is prove to the NCAA committee nated the East Division last record. Mter being ranked 15th isms to offer about Notre Dame one of the nicest facilities in the that they made a mistake by year and ended up with a in the preseason, the team has baseball: country, but it is not ours. If we not taking us last year. We've sparkling 2 7-5 record in the fallen out of the top 25, but had a facility on campus that developed from an average conference. Murphy is not concerned. •On Danapilis -"Eric is a could satisfy the students, then team in the midwest to one of 
Murphy said, "All the confer­"It's difficult at times," said mainstay on our offense and I think there would be more the top teams in the country. ence opponents come in here Murphy, "because when we has also come out of the awareness. People don't realize Baseball used to be just an gunning for us. They have ev­lose a few, it plays on the mind. bullpen for a couple of saves. we have one of the best teams afterthought around here for erything to gain and nothing to You have to make a mental He is a future All-American and in the country." many years and now these kids lose. We're not sneaking up on adjustment and not worry about as good a pro prospect as The second half of the season have got people turning their anybody this year." about your record. Rankings you will find." begins against the Xavier heads. 
This Irish team is loaded with don't mean a whole lot in •On freshman Greg Layson Musketeers this weekend, who "It's exciting." 
&or liik~t"'t 
1'%\'l~~ 

Layson: The best is yet to come 
Fresh leadoff hitter making impact with improvements 
By ANTHONY KING 
high school, playing with the Assistant Sports Editor big teams. It was just great to play against LSU. Winning was The Irish may have a young icing on the cake. And playing second base men in Greg at the Kingdome was a kid's Layson, but they also have a dream. It was really exciting to good one. play in a major league park, in 
Layson, a freshman from San a major league atmosphere." Diego, has made quite an im­Greg also is happy to be here pact already. He is third on the at Notre Dame. Being from San team in batting average, at Diego, he was not sure whether 
.297. Layson has scored 15 he would like it here or not. runs and batted in 14. "I was apprehensive at first," 
., f(.

Greg primarily has been a explained Layson. "But I love it · leadoff hitter, batting first in 12 here now. I love putting on the
Greg Layson 
games. He is valuable in the uniform and playing for coach leadoff spot because of his abil­help Layson to an even better Murphy." ities as a switch-hitter, on-base percentage. It was not just baseball that although he is a natural right­As far as Greg's strengths go, brought Greg Layson to Notre handed batter. he thinks that defense is his Dame, however. most important part of the "It was an academic choice," "I've changed styles hitting game. stated Layson. "I wanted the 
left-handed," explains Layson. "I try to focus on my de­education. If I wanted to just "Coach Murphy has been work­fense," said Layson. "It's my play baseball, I could have en­ing with me. I've been trying to best asset." tered the draft and played in 
make more contact, going with This season already has been the minors. I enjoy the chal­the pitch and not trying to pull an exciting one for the lenge of the academics here." it. The change also gives me a freshman. With a big win at For Layson, the best is yet to smaller strike zone." LSU and being named top the come. He believes that the 
Greg feels his left-handed All-Tourney team at the College team is not playing their best hitting is one of the major Baseball Classic in Seattle, ball, but are progressing. points he is trying to improve Layson has already had a great "Everyday we're improving," on. Along with better hitting, season. said Layson. "That's what 
he is trying to improve his games and practice should do. speed out of the batters box. A ''I'm just real glad to be a At the end of the season we'll combination of better hitting part of the team," said Layson. be at our best. I'm just trying and improved speed should "This is what you dream of in to do my part." 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey David Sinnes returns to the dugout after an impressive outing against Wichita State last season. 


April12. 1991

IRISH BASEBALL 
Maisano keeps hitting Slump doesn't stop slugger 
By DAVE on the road, who can be brutal in their taunting.
McMAHON 
But true to his positive
Associate Sports Editor 
demeanor, he keeps his mind focused and doesn't 
His physical fea­let the crowd interfere
tures don't evoke 
with his batting. 
thoughts of a sleek­
"A lot of times I'll hitfooted base stealer. 
better when I know
But base stealing 
people are saying stuff," isn't his forte. 
said Maisano, a non­For sophomore scholarship player whodesignated hitter 
played noseguard and
Adam Maisano, the 
wrestled at heavyweight

only duty he carries 'tit·····.·•··.. 
for Riverwood High\ involves crushing School in Atlanta. "But

baseballs in a way 

Adam Maisano 
that simply has to be 
seen to be believed. 

"It's unbelievable that a kid that heavy and with such short arms can have that the kind of bat that he has," said Irish baseball coach Pat Murphy. 
At 5-8, 240, the sophomore from Atlanta, Ga., has overcome a heavy burden that has been a part of him since his high school days. 
"My physical features don't exactly epitomize those of an average baseball player," said Maisano, who cranked out 
a .333 batting average as a pinch hitter and designated hitter during his freshman campaign. 
Working exclusively as a power hitter, Maisano sometimes blames himself when he feels that he could be producing more. 
"Adam sometimes gets down on himself," said Murphy. "He's got as
•­
much courage as anyone on this campus." 
Currently in the midst of a slump that has seen his batting average linger around the .220 mark, Maisano hopes a changed stance will combat his batting problems. Despite his offensive troubles of late, Maisano is tied for second on the squad with 19 RBI. 
"Adam's been struggling a little bit 
lately, but when he's going good, he's as 
good as anybody around," said Murphy. 
Whether he's on a roll or not, Maisano can be sure to get the attention of fans 
even back to high school, I've heard just about everything. I just have to make sure I don't dwell on it and let it dictate my performance." 
After facing unknown pitching staffs throughout his freshman year, word has gotten out that Maisano is a threat to be reckoned with. 
"He's going through a transition period right now where he's having to adjust to different pitching," said Murphy. "He's seeing so many breaking pitches, just like (Frank) Jacobs, that he starts getting away from his bread and butter pitch, the fastball. Now he's almost looking breaking ball and the fastball is beating him a little bit." 
But with Murphy's troops, when a problem arises a solution is close behind. In the past few days, Maisano has worked on closing his stance to try to keep from stepping up to the ball as much as he had been. 
"Hopefully changing my stance will take care of some of the problems," said Maisano. "Just like any change, it'll take a while to get used to, but my ultimate goal is to contribute and hit well for the team. I'm not a vocal person during the game, so I try to get my enthusiasm through my performance." 
With an optimistic outlook like Maisano's hovering over the squad, it's hard to imagine the team having anything less than a good time on their 
road to the NCAA's. 

Man with a mission, Murphy manufacturing miracles at ND 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
Pat Murphy is a man with a 
mission. 
And right now, that mission is to get the Notre Dame baseball team to the top of the heap in college baseball. He doesn't have all that much farther to go. 
After assuming his position as head baseball coach almost four years ago, Murphy took a team with a 15-29 record, and turned it around to go 39-22 the very next year. 
Since that time, Murphy has assembled a pitching staff composed of several potential All-Americans and a lineup consisting of hitters like Eric Danapilis and Frank Jacobs, and has Notre Dame baseball on the rebound. 
"We're not far from the tip of the iceberg," says Murphy. "There's no question it's the best team by far since I've been here. It's just a matter of our record." 
People see last year's 46-12 record and then attempt to judge this year's team against that standard, a move which Murphy doesn't think is fair. 
"When you play 12 teams in the top 25, and the first 27 games on the road, you're not going to have that type of record." 
\ l 

t . ~ ' ~ w~ { ~~ ~ 
l\..\\~\\..
;~ ··~ '\ i.i 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Frank Jacobs and the rest of the Notre Dame baseball team have their eyes set on respect and a trip to the NCAA Championships. 
Coupled with the tough schedule, according to Murphy, the Irish are going through "a little bit of growing pains, and we're facing that 'Notre Dame thing.' Everybody's gunning for us since we're Notre Dame." 
The fact is, for many years, Pat Murphy was one of those people gunning for Notre Dame. In a story that has been well-documented in such publi­cations as Baseball America, among others, Murphy was an Irish fanatic since early in his youth. 
"It was always my dream to be a student-athlete at Notre Dame," says Murphy. 
"I used to hitchhike out to games, and tell my mom I was staying overnight at a friend's house," he said. Once he got out to South Bend, he would sneak into a dorm and sleep on a couch in the basement, or un­der the bleachers in the ACC. Then, once it was gametime, he would find some way to get into the game. When it was over, he would thumb a ride back to his home in upstate New York. 
Interestingly enough, baseball wasn't even Murphy's favorite sport growing up. "My first loves were football, basketball, and boxing," he says. "Baseball was just something I did. Maybe because I was relaxed, I got better." 
Eventually, baseball became the one sport left for Murphy. Shoulder surgery ruled out football, and "my boxing career ended because I got smart, and my basketball career ended because I couldn't run or jump." So baseball was the only sport left for him to pursue. 
When it was time to apply to college, the first choice was ob­vious. There was only one problem. The University of Notre Dame didn't want Patrick Murphy as a student at the University. 
Instead, Murphy eventually wound up at Florida Atlantic University as a pitcher, and then later bounced around the minors, playing in the farm systems of the Giants and Padres, as well as with two independent teams. 
He left minor-league ball to concentrate on coaching, keep­ing his mission in sight-to get to the University of Notre Dame. 

Most of the positions he took in college baseball were de­signed to keep him in con­tention for the job as the Irish skipper. 
"I worked at good academic schools, because I knew that's what Notre Dame would be looking for," says Murphy. 
see MURPHY/ page 2 

\' 
BASEBALL Season To Date 
NOTRE DAME (2·2·0 MCC, 16·12·0 overall) Results Opponent 
W4-2  
W8-5  
L 1-6  
L11-12(11)  
w 13-4  
W6-4  w 9-3  
W8-2  w 8-3  
L 7·9  
L 5-6  
L 3-5  
W6-3  
W9-6  
w 7-0  
W9-7  
L 6-2  
W12·0  
L 3-7  
L 5-9  
L 3-6  
L o-s  w  
L 1-2  w  
Apr 11  w  
Apr 13-14  
Apr 15  
Apr 17  
Apr 18  
Apr 20-21  
Apr 23  
Apr 24  
Apr 25  
Apr 27·28  
May 1  
May 4-5  
May 11-12  
May 13  
May 14  


z  Dartmouth  
z  Nebraska  
z  Ohio State  
z  Ohio State  
at Texas  
at St. Mary's (DH)  
at Trinity (DH)  
d  South Alabama  
d  Michigan  
at Tulane  
INDIANA  
at Illinois-Chicago  
SAINT LOUIS' (DH)  
VALPARAISO  
DETROIT' (DH)  
at Dayton' (DH)  
WESTERN MICHIGAN  
CHICAGO  

·Phoenix, T-Bird Tournament, Phoenix, Ariz. d • Diamond Club Classic, Mobile, Ala. w-College Baseball Classic, Seattle, Wash. y -Oscar Meyer Classic, Minneapolis, Minn. 
The Observer/ Ann-Marie Conrado 








