
. 
VOL. XXIII NO. 11 0 FRIDAY , MARCH 8, 1991 ' THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ­
SERV aids religious vocations 
By BECKY RITZERT 
News Writer 
As an organization in its first year of existence, Students En­couraging Religious Vocations (SERV) has made "very good progress" toward its goal to "promote, encourage, and sup­port religious vocations," ac­cording to Herb Juliano, the founder and lay advisor of the group. 
During the first semester, SERV instituted a weekly mass for vocations at Sacred Heart Church, a weekly rosary for vo­cations at the Grotto, and a scholarship fund to aid needy seminarians, said Julia,no. 
"This semester our projects include a Vocation Vigil," said Juliano. "The Vocation Vigil is a year-round program in which Notre Dame students are asked to pray one hour per month for vocations," he said. 
SERV also plans to distribute "Prayer for Vocations" cards and to enlist the help of the Li­turgical Commissioners of the halls to make residents aware of World Day of Prayer for Vo­cations on April 21, said Ju­liano. 
SERV does not promote any particular religious order, stressed Juliano. We are here 
see SERV I page 4 

The Observer/Martha Oldford 

Blessed adoration 
The statue of the Virgin Mary kneels, embracing a bouquet of roses at the Grotto. The Grotto has been a popular spot for students during Lent, especially those praying for help during recent midterm exams. 

Priest and professor discuss peacemaking 
By ANNMARIE ZELL 
News Writer 

Social and economic justice is needed to ensure peace in the world, according to Kathleen Weigert, sociology professor and faculty liason/academic co­ordinator of the Center for Social Concerns, and Father Thomas McDermott of Campus Ministry, in a lecture Thursday. 
"If the world is not just, peo­ple will not be at peace," said McDermott in a lecture titled "Peacemaking: Peace as the Fruit of Justice." Those who are aware of the world's injustices will not have inner peace, and the victims of these injustices will not tolerate the situation indefinitely, he added. 
To explain his point, McDermott referred to his ex-



Iraq releases Kuwaitis and warns dissidents 
(AP) Former Kuwaiti hostages reached freedom by the truckload late Thursday, chanting "USA! USA!" and American troops -dusty but triumphant -arrived in Eu­rope for their first hot showers and cold beer in weeks. 
In Baghdad, Iraq's official media pleaded for national unity and ominously vowed that 


OPERATION
dissidents "will pay." 

Opponents of Saddam Hus­DESERT STORM sein claimed that the rebellion had spread to the Iraqi capital, and Iraqi refugees said an 
• Gulf movies?/ page 7 
uprising in southern Iraq con­
• Iraq unrest I page 7 
tinued despite the execution of more than 400 dissidents. 

Iraq released trucks and Kuwait said Iraqi troops ab­buses filled with Kuwaitis to ducted 30,000 Kuwaitis during Red Cross officials. its 6 1/2-month occupation of 
The Bush administration es­the oil-rich emirate. timated that 800 to 2,000 Gian-Battista Bacchetta, head Kuwaitis had been released. As of the Red Cross delegation in the trucks rolled into the U.S.­Kuwait City, said 29 of about 


Bishop speaks on Christian churches 
By NATASHA WILSON 
News Writer 

Christian churches often con­
centrate on their operational 
and financial responsibilities at 
the neglect of the "Kingdom of 
God," said George Carey, the 
Anglican archbishop-elect of 
Canterbury, Thursday. 

Christian church bureaucracy hinders the important mission of advancing the Kingdom, Carey said in his lecture, "The Kingdom of God and Church Renewal," at the Hesburgh Li­brary. 
The Kingdom driven mission invites Christians to share in God's mission to the world, the bishop said. The community of Christian churches should "incarnate itself in the local community, like the form the Kingdom took with Jesus. Christians agonize over the plight of others...and we per­ceive the problem to be out there and away from where are are." 
The Christian church faces the challenge of renewing the local church, Carey said. Church leaders need to better support the life of the local community and encourage par­ticipation among members. 
"We must come to terms with reality of church life. There is a great deal done by small group 
perience in East Africa. When he first began living in Kenya, there was free education and health care. He felt a "general ambiance of hope." The poor felt that they had a chance to get out of their situation, if one of their children was successful in school. 
As economics in Kenya wors­ened, parents were required to pay for their children's educa­tion. As a consequence people did not feel they had a "safety valve" or way out of their situa­tion. They no longer had "that lotto ticket" for success. 

The East Africans saw that a rich man's son had a better chance for success than a poor man's son. Gradually, anger arose among the under class. Soon there were riots, tear gas, 
see PEACE I page 4 

of people . The minority does the bulk of the work." The mis­sion should not fall on a minor­ity of church members. The members need to share the burden of parish ministry. 
The local church must avoid developing its mission at the expense of the needs of other communities, Carey warns. The churches must balance their missionary efforts. 
"Church leaders very often have a reactive crisis ministry," the bishop said. The leaders should leave the security of the church building and share the evangelism with the surround­ing community. 
Churches have a duty to teach others about the Kingdom, Carey said. "We have to preach to ourselves, enjoy the King­dom, then we have the right to teach others." The teaching of the Kingdom will bring hope and meaning to a distorted and confused world, he said. 
Queen Elizabeth II selected Carey last year to succeed retir­ing Archbishop Robert Runcie as the spiritual leader of the 28 independent churches of some 70 million Anglicans worldwide. Carey, 54, was born in London's East End neighborhood, the son of a hospital porter. He dropped out 
see BISHOP/ page 4 

Last Publication 
Today is the last Observer un­til Tuesday, March 19. The Observer wishes everyone in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community a safe and happy Spring Vacation. 


occupied southern Iraqi town of three dozen Western journalists Jubilant members of the 24th Mechanized Infantry Division wave as they prepare to board a c-141 Starlifter Safwan, the Kuwaitis waived at an allied air base in Dhahran early Friday. The troops are going to their home base at Fort Stewart, Ga. and shouted "USA! USA!" see GULF I page 7 
---~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------.--------------------· 
Friday, March 8, 1991
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Parting thoughts from a 'lame duck' 
Our Office introduced me to the "Lame Duck Throne," known to the layman as the chair next to her desk. 
She said that in weeks to come, my chief role at The Observer will be to flop into the chair and whine, "Shirley, I have no life." Apparently, I'm in 


distinguished company; in the ten years Shirley has worked for The Observer, the Lame Duck Throne has been a popular hangout for former editors-in-chief. 
I've practiced this week, and I don't like it. Some people are afraid of water, others fear the dark. I'm scared of a chair. 
I'm afraid of too much free time. I haven't been bored in about two years. Most of the friends I've camped out with in LaFortune for the past year assumed I'd be ready to relinquish my office at The Observer in favor of a barstool at Coach's by now. The truth is, the novelty of free time will wear off, and I'll be on the Lame Duck Throne whining, like it or not. 
It scares me, too, that the chair next to Shirley's desk will become my new place in the office. 
I've already promised Shirley I'll be back to visit, but I don't want to be a guest. I'm used to seeing Shirley every day. When I walk into the office, she can tell if I'm on the rampage, if I'll be pulling a paper off the LaserWriter seconds before it's due, or if I'm excited about the day's agenda. Merely catching up is no fun. I'd rather storm around the office while Shirley watches and prays to God that her 15-year-old daughter doesn't turn out like me. 
I'd be romanticizing my Observer career if I claimed my job has been easy. Realizing that The Observer isn't going to be a model newspaper every day is a tough lesson. Although I can point to many issues I've been pleased with, I remember others that haven't survived our daily critiques too well. If I never reach for my big bottle of Tylenol again, I won't care, but while I keep the Lame Duck Throne warm, I'll miss the days I didn't need painkillers. 
Above all, I'll miss the staff. It took the work of 200 people to publish The Observer this year. Thanks to them, I wasn't a one­woman show, and The Observer published daily. Taking my place on the Lame Duck Throne means distancing myself from The Observer's operations in order to allow the 1991-92 staff to produce the excellent work I know they can do. It means witnessing the same chaos that made this year's group such a close one as a bystander, instead of a participant. 
I'd like to ask the community for one last favor. Indulge me for the next few lines, as I offer my thanks to a few important people. After today, I can be reached at the Lame Duck Throne, or Coach's. Take your pick. 
Alison Cocks Editor-in-Chief 

. . .. -­
. . . . :-:-:; ,:.:::_:· :::-:· :· ':: ::::: ::;::: .: 

. ·.·-·-E·.·-__ ··r···.-·._···.-.. -.·.·. Forecasftor noon. Friday,Match 8
·-·.·._.p··_·-_·-·_·._o··_·_-.····---R·._
. . ... .. -... "' .. 

. . line$ shOW hjgh tefflj)etatures · · 
R 
.·: ---:....-· .. ·_ ''/ . :·.--. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
El Salvador aid cut-off is proposed 
• WASHINGTON -Eight Democratic senators and 30 congressmen proposed on Thursday a cutoff of all U.S. military aid to El Salvador:'For the past decade, the United States has armed, trained and financed an army responsible for abducting, torturing and killing thousands of Salvadorans," said Last year, Congress approved $85 million in military aid to El Salvador but included a stipulation that made half of it contingent on improvements in that country's human rights policy. In January, President Bush said that he had determined enough improvement had been made to free up the other $42.5 million and plans to release it next week. "We've seen what allied actions can do in the Middle East," Harkin told reporters. 

NATIONAL Do jocks need jockstraps? Not really. 
•wASHINGTON -If it weren't for jockstraps, we wouldn't call athletes "jocks" -but experts say male athletes don't always need athletic supporters. A jockstrap protects the male genitals by "keeping the athlete safely in place," said Ed Christman, marketing manager for the Bike Athletic Co.The genitals do need to be protected, experts say. However, he questions whether a jockstrap is the only way in which to do it. Some experts believe the jockstrap may even may make things worse for an athlete, by causing the chafing known as jock burn. Still, experts agree that, for contact sports, an athletic supporter made with a pocket to hold a shielding cup, is vital to protect the genitals from injury if they are struck. Jockstraps are not as popular as they have been, according to Christman. 

Cold front moving in Friday. Partly cloudy with lows from the 20's. Temperatures should increase toward the 40s and 50s Saturday and Sunday. 

TEMPERATURES: 
be timid from the start, more are just the opposite: they are born to be talkative, sociable and spontaneous. When put into situations that make shy babies nervous and fussy, the outgoing infants take it in stride and even seem to enjoy themselves. They look attentively and occasionally grin at bouncing mobiles, funny smells and unusual toys. Psychologist Jerome Kagan of Harvard University estimates that 20 percent of white children ­the only children he studied -are born with a tendency to be extremely shy, while about 35 percent are gregarious from their first weeks. Kagan said this trait is often inherited, like shyness, and probably results from differences in the brain. 


CAMPUS 

Washinaton internships announced 
• NOTR DAME, ln.-Three Notre Dame students, Joshua Henderson, James Swiderski and Regina Ormond, are currently participating in the spring 1991 Washington Semester Program at The American Uni­versity in Washington, D.C. Henderson, a sophomore from South Bend is serving as an intern with the American Civil Liberties Union of the National Capital Area. Swiderski, a junior from Wauwatosa, Wis., has an internship with the State of Wisconsin Office of Federal­State Relations. Ormond, a junior from Granville, Ohio, is also an intern with the Inter-American Commission of Human Rights at the Organization of American States. 
Graduate dies in Persian Gulf war 
• NOTRE DAME, ln.-Maj. Mark Connelly, a 1978 Notre Dame graduate and Army doctor, was killed along with a colleague when their military vehicle hit a land mine February 28, after the cessation of hostilities in Iraq. Connelly was from Lancaster, Pa. Funeral services are scheduled for Saturday, March 9, at Grace Brethern Church in Lititz, Pa. 
I'm grateful to the people who have made my Observer career so memorable: the night staffs, past and present. the General Board, our neighbors downstairs (the butts of too many practical jokes). my roommates and friends and. of course. M.. D.• J. & H. You're probably right-1just might shine on. 
Thursday's  Staff  
News Peter Loftus Siobhan McCarthy  Production Jeanne Blasi  Circulation Bill O'Rourke Matt Novak  
Kristin Lynch  
Accent Robyn Simmons Charmaine Martinez  Systems Chris Caracciolo  Viewpoint Michael Krause  
Michelle Devers Paul Pearson  Michael Murphy  Graphics Steve Burgun  
Sports Rene Ferran  Ann-Marie Conrado Michael Muldoon  
Scoreboard Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Traci Hupp Lisa Gunsorek  
Doug Bronsing  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Miami Beach 

H  L  
63  43  
74  54  
54  41  
50  43  
51  21  
81  48  
42  25  
57  28  
77  69  
86  63  
55  28  
57  48  
67  48  
59  45  
76  69  
32  10  
79  66  
58  50  
61  50  
62  46  
51  39  
66  45  
58  26  
50  45  
32  27  
63  50  



OF INTEREST 
•student government is accepting applications for commissioner positions for the 1991-1992 school year. Applications can be picked up at the secretary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune, beginning on Tuesday, March 19. The deadline for submitting applications is Friday, March 22. 
MARKET UPDATE 
•Of Interests are a public service of The Observer for free, one-time events of general interest. The deadline for Of Interests is 1 p.m. one day prior to publication. No exceptions. The Observer News department reserves the right to edit entries and determine if, when and where they will be placed. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 6, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 197.06 Million 205.36 {7 0.17 S&P COMPOSITE 375.91 {} 0.26 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,963.37 {} 9.90 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD {7 $1.00 to $ 368.50oz. 
SILVER {( 10.5¢ to$ 3.973/oz. 

• 
In 1782: The Gnadenhutten massacre took place as some 90 Indians who had converted to Christianity were slain by militiamen in Ohio in retaliation for raids carried out by other Indians. 

• 
In 1854: U.S. Commodore Matthew Perry made his second landing in Japan. Within a month, he concluded a treaty with the Japanese. 

•In 
1917: The first of two Russian Revolutions began with rioting and strikes in St. Petersburg. 

• 
In 1965: The United States landed about 3,500 Marines in South Vietnam. 

• 
Five years ago: Four French television crew members were abducted in Moslem west Beirut; a caller claimed Islamic Jihad was responsible. (All four were eventually released.) 


Friday, March 8, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Albania tries to halt exodus of thousands 

Almost back in business 
A group of camel drivers play games as they wait for customers on the first day of the reopening of the pyramids on Giza Plateau Wednesday. Archeological sites were closed for weeks due to the Gulf War. 


Health-conscious prisoners rebel 
EDEN, Texas (AP) -Federal inmates complaining they don't get enough vegetables took over part of a private prison in protest and held authO'rities at bay with kitchen utensils and baseball bats until giving up today. 
The food complaint was simi­lar to one raised during an in­mates' protest about two years ago, said Roy Burnes, president of the Eden Detention Center Inc. 
"It seems again to revolve around food service. Last time, they wanted more Mexican food. Now, they want more greens -lettuce, fresh salad," he said. "Aside from that, they claim their feeding time is tak­ing too long." 
He said the kitchen feeds 479 inmates in one hour and 15 minutes. He said grievances 
also include high commissary prices and slow postal service. The protest ended about 11 
a.m. today when the inmates gave in to authorities who in­sisted they would not negotiate unless order was restored. 
"The inmates must submit to 
an  official head  count  and  
shakedown  for  weapons,"  
Burnes said.  

Inmates had selected five rep­resentatives to talk to a repre­sentative of the federal Bureau of Prisons, which has a contract with Eden Detention Center to hold short-term prisoners. 
The protest began Wednesday when about three-fourths of the 479 inmates refused to come in from an outdoor recreation area, said Burnes. 
By nightfall Wednesday, the inmates had taken control of a food service building. There were food fights, and several small fires broke out, Burnes said. 
He estimated damage at about $250,000. 
One inmate was taken to a hospital after he suffered an apparent heart attack, Burnes said. 
In May 1989, inmates staged a one-night demonstration to protest food and other condi­tions at the prison. Then, most of the inmates were illegal aliens serving up to 18-month terms for federal crimes. 
In July 1987, inmates of the center signed a letter complain­ing of violations of civil rights, Bureau of Prison standards and sanitation. Prisoners said in the letter that they were offered real meat only once a week. They also complained of a lack of recreation facilities. 


All It took was a wbtsper. 
WARNER BRffi. PRESE!m) 
AN ARNON MILCHAN Pnxl11C101 AN IRWIN WINKLER FILII ROm 00 NIRO 
"QJILTY BY SUSPICION" ANNETIE liNING •(lORGE WENDT •PATRJOA WETIIG AND &\M WANAMAKER 
=&~r.~~~~O::R:i~!:H~~;_~~~:-~~­
VIENNA, Austria (AP) -Al­bania on Thursday clamped military control on three major ports to halt a chaotic exodus and stepped up security in the capital of Tirana after at least 
one  person  was  killed  in  
clashes with police.  
The  move  came  as  Italy,  

overwhelmed by thousands of Albanians flooding its eastern ports, asked Tirana to stop-the flow of refugees, release its po­litical prisoners and pledged more aid to Europe's poorest nation. 
Two boats carrying up to 8,000 Albanians reached Italy on Thursday night, becoming the latest in an exodus of tens of thousands from the Balkan nation in the last week. Many are crossing the Adriatic Sea to Italy while others travel over­land to Yugoslavia. 
Albania is Europe's last hard­line Communist holdout, and the refugees have little faith that elections set for March 31 will ease financial woes and political unrest. 
Albania moved to staunch the exodus Thursday by restricting travel to the main port of Our­res, other port cities and Tirana to prevent "abnormal gatherings of people." 
"The seaport of Durres be­comes a military zone," said a government statement released by the official ATA news agency. 
The government also in­structed its Foreign Ministry to immediately contact the United Nations and other countries "to find quick and humanitarian solutions" to the problem. 
Gramoz Pashko, a leader of the opposition Democratic Party, said about 30,000 people still were waiting in Durres for ships to take them to Italy, but that all ships had left port. 
"It's a dramatic situation, and we are encouraging them to stay because these are mostly young people, and they were going to vote for us," he said. 
"They are without hope also because there is anarchy in the country," Pashko told The As­sociated Press. The travel restrictions also 
were an effort to purge huge 
crowds from Embassy Row in 
Tirana. One person was killed 
and at least eight others injured 
Wednesday when riot police 
used firearms and water can­
nons to disperse the crowds, 
drawn by rumors of visa give­
aways. 
But Pashko and other opposi­
tion members reached by tele­
phone from Vienna said three 
people, aged 13 to 27, were 
killed. 
In a declaration Thursday on 
Albanian state radio, the ruling 
Party of Labor, the former 
Communist party, called the 
exodus a "national dementia" 
and said it "breaks the heart of 
every honest Albanian." 
In other related developments 
Thursday: 
•The 
Yugoslav news agency Tanjug reported that a group of 550 ethnic Serbs and Albanians had crossed into Yugoslavia. 

•A 
British ship headed to res­cue 350 refugees from a fire­damaged Albanian vessel off Italy, the Ministry of Defense said. The RAF Olmeda was ex­pected to reach the Albanian ship Puvrischi, in international waters 35 miles from Brindisi, late Thursday. 


In Italy, Deputy Premier Claudio Martelli indicated some refugees en route to Italy might be sent back to Albania with 
U.N. guarantees against reprisal by Tirana. But no deci­sion was made pe.nding a Cabi­net meeting Friday. 
Italy has "decided to speed and beef up the aid program to Albania," Martelli added. 
Brindisi Prefect Antonio Bar­rel, who enforces Interior Min­istry orders, said Albanians al­ready in Italy would not be shipped back. 
The Liberal Party urged the government not to refuse any tefugees, saying they should be accepted as were those from other East European countries. 

The Foreign Ministry said Thursday night that the Alba­nian ambassador was told "to discourage the illegal exodus" by moving boats away from the coast. 




OPENS FRIDAY, MARCH 15TH 
page 4 The Observer Friday, March 8, 1991 



Peace 
continued from page 1 

and secret police. He concluded from his example, "without a sense of justice, you can't have peace." 
Evaluating the international scene in general, Weigert pointed out that there is a greater amount of suffering in the southern hemisphere. She made this judgement based on objective factors like infant mortality rates, and nutrition levels. She questioned why she was born in an affluent family and region, while someone else, less fortunate, is born in an area lacking many essentials of life, like food, clothing and medicine. She said, "Is this fair? Is this just?" 
Weigert also noted there are significant social and economic divisions in our own country. By government standards of poverty, there are currently 
39.5 million people living at or below the poverty line, approx­imately 13 percent. McDermott noted that "economic gaps in our society are widening." 
"Prayer, knowledge and ac­tion" are needed to eradicate 
injustice in the world, according to Weigert. "We should educate ourselves and other people of where and how people are hurting," she said. However, she warned that to change the world, action is also needed, not only prayer and knowledge. 
To establish justice, "we need to Judge, see and act," said McDermott. "If the poor are to have a decent life, those who have the most must be willing to give up their limitless vision and release themselves from their addiction to commercial­ism," he added. 
McDermott lamented that the middle class is tolerant of a slow rate of change. "You can be a nice person, decent to one another, and tolerant of a slow rate of change," he said. "But from the point of view of the needy, parents of children who don't have life's essentials, like shoes, they don't have the time" to wait for change. 
Both Weigert and McDermott had wishes for Notre Dames students in their role of bring­ing justice to the world. McDermott hopes that more Notre Dame students will "go out in into the world with a lim­ited view of their needs and wants." 


Bishop 
continued from page 1 

of school at 15 to work as an office boy for the London Electricity Board. He then 
IMMIGRATION LAW PRAOICIONERS 
Plllll Catbtrine 
GRESK S1HGLETON 
IJ)() INI Toww .........,0146204

The Observer/John Fabbre 
(317) 634-9771

Father George Carey, archibishop-elect of Canterbury, spoke at the 
Hesburgh library Auditorium Thursday . Carey encouraged Christians 
to take part in the mission to renew support within the church on a local 
lnilal iHffio (··­
.....

level. Carey was selected by Queen Elizabeth II to succeed retiring 
.............
Archbishop Robert Runcie. 

EUCHRE 
TOURNAMENT for 1st and 2nd Refreshments available Saturday -March 9 8:00pm to Midnight LaSalle Building 
237 N. MlcbJsan -comer of !t.tlchigan & LaSalle 
$10 donation, per 2 person team accepted at the door To register call 272-3645. 
Spon110red by Boy Srout '!roop #325 
AlUMNI SfNIOR 



~CLUB 

Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the INFORMATION DESK LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER *Deadline for applications Is March 29* 
SERV 
continued from page 1 

to "support students who want to serve God by serving his people," said Juliano. 
Juliano added that SERV hopes to spread beyond the Notre Dame campus. "We do know that there is interest in similar groups in high schools 
and other colleges," said Ju­liano. 
The group is currently work­ing to establish SERV organiza­tions in the two South Bend area Catholic high schools. "I feel the high school years are more formative years," said Juliano. "By the time a person gets to college, they usually know whether they have a vocation," he said. 
There are currently 28 mem­bers in SERV, according to Ju­liano. He added that the group has no female members, but he hopes that will change when SERV registers at St. Mary's College next semester. 
"There's no limit to the po­tential here," said Juliano. "I think everybody agrees that the future of the Church depends on vocations. We hope to make people aware of the obligation of every Christian to promote religious vocations, .. he said. 
entered the Royal Air Force  torate in 1971, was appointed  
and served in Egypt and Iraq.  principal of Trinity College,  
Carey studied at the Univer­ Bristol in 1982 and bishop of  
sity of London's King's College  Bath and Wells in 1987.  
and was ordained to the Angli­ The Notre Dame Theology  
can priesthood in 1962. Carey,  Department sponsored Carey's  
who received a theology doc- lecture.  

:We:ekend presiders:at:



:Sacred:Heart:thurch.: 
.. : : :4th :s~ncJ~Y. 9( L~l)t: : : ::: :::: : Satur.day,:March 9:::: : : : 
:s::oo P.m Fr~ :rautOoyie,: c.s:.c:.: 
:::::::Sunday~ Mar:ch:Io:::::::

:io:oo:a.m:F.r.: P.aui oa: ie: :c~s~c~ 

~HairCutting Co. 
"·~r • 
• 1::.r
M • 
,
M • 
• H 
• H
M • 
•

M • 
• H 




PE LE 

INClUDES PRECISION  CUT  8  SHAMPOO  
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA  
REDKEN  NEXT TO VENTlJAE GRAPE RO.• MISHAWAKA  
PROFESSIONAL  277-7Q.CS  HOURS: Daily 9-8  
PRODUCTS  Sat 9-6  Sun. 11-5  

GCopyright cl Chicago Hair CUlling Co. 1991 


Friday, March 8, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Reward offered in Sudafed case 
SEATTLE (AP)-Burroughs suspected. Three capsules that isolated case of poisoning, not a Wellcome Co., the manufacturer appear to have been tampered case of drug tampering, Tracy of Sudafed 12 Hour deconges­with were recovered this week said. tant capsules, offered a -two from consumers and the· ..All of the authorities in­$100,000 reward Thursday for one from the Kmart shelf. .volved ... sincerely believed that information leading to a convic­The three suspicious capsules this was not a case of tamper­
tion in a cyanide tampering were being analyzed by the FBI ing," Tracy said. "We believe we case that caused two deaths. in Washington, D.C. Results acted very reasonably under Philip Tracy, president and weren't back on the other two the circumstances." 
chief executive officer of the capsules by late Thursday. The FBI and FDA did not North Carolina-based company The widow of one victim filed learn Daneker died from announced the reward at a a lawsuit against the company cyanide poisoning until late last news conference in Seattle. in federal court in Tacoma Friday, 18 days after her sud­
Also Thursday, the FBI re­Wednesday, charging negli­den death. A lab investigation ported laboratory tests found gence and seeking unspecified Sunday confirmed McWhorter cyanide in one of three altered damages. died of cyanide poisoning. capsules recovered after the The suit filed by S. Jane The first public warning tamperings were announced McWhorter, widow of 44-year­about the tampering was issued and a nationwide recall of old Stan McWhorter of Lacey, late Saturday by the FDA. Sudafed 12 Hour capsules was said the manufacturer should Tracy said tampering alerts issued. have taken Sudafed off the are common and Burroughs 
William Gore, FBI special­market and notified doctors in Wellcome couldn't issue an im­agent-in-charge in Seattle, said the Olympia area after the mediate recall every time they the cyanide-laced capsule was company learned Jennifer Mel­received one. recovered March 3 from a ing of Tumwater fell seriously ill "We get hundreds of alerts to Kmart store in Lakewood, a after taking a Sudafed capsule possible tampering each year, 
AP Photo

Tacoma suburb. Feb. 2. She is recovering. and 99.9 percent of the time Two people died of cyanide Kathleen Daneker, 40, of Ta­there turns out to be no tam­
Welcome home 
poisoning and one fell seriously coma, died Feb. 11 after taking pering at all," he said. 
Sgt. Don Walker and wife Dee greet each other with a passionate kiss
ill last month in Washington a Sudafed capsule. Lost sales and the recall itself 
and embrace as members of Hill Air Force Base 2952nd Combat
state after taking Sudafed cap­The company did not order a will cost Burroughs Wellcome 
Logistics Support Squadron arrived at Salt Lake City International
sules. recall after Meling's illness be­tens of millions of dollars, Tracy 
Airport Wednesday returning from the Persian Gulf.
In all, six tampering cases are cause police told them it was an said. 



ND leprechaun is among display of Irish caricatures 
Special to The Observer of the Notre Dame's Hesburgh glimpse into the American cul­time" whose "combined artistic the Irish as aumsingly simian 
Library. tural scene and its often critical, skill and critical eye for social jesters, through Thomas Nast's 
An exhibit of 18th, 19th, and The exhibit, on loan from negative stereotyping that was conflict" present "lasting im­Harper's Weekly drawings,20th century newspaper and Michigan State University, in­common, and indeed acceptable ages of an America often in which portray recently arrived magazine illustrations, titled cludes nearly one hundred in public arenas" until recently. conflict with itself and its ide­Irish immigrants as more brutal 
"Pat-Riots to Patriots: American original illustrations, which, Dewhurst says that the im­als." and drunken apes, to Notre 
Irish in Caricature and Comic according to C. Kurt Dewhurst, ages in the exhibit include The exhibit extends from the Dames' affectionately regardedArt" will be on display through director of the Michigan State "works by some of the foremost old English Punch magazine's athletic icon of the two-fisted March in the Rare Book Room University museum, "provide a artists and illustrators of the racist caricatures, which depict leprechaun. 
St. Patrick's Day mass to feature Irish music 
Special to The Observer Celtic harp, and bodhran, an Irish drum. 
A mass celebrating the Feast During the Mass, a collection of Saint Patrick will take place will be taken for the North Monday, March 18, at 5 p.m. Wall Women's Center, an 
in the University of Notre agency which provides supportDame's Sacred Heart Church. for unwed mothers and Bishop John D'Arcy of Fort women with distressed Wayne/South Bend will pregnancies in the dockside preside. area of Dublin. The collection 
Irish liturgical music at the total will be matched by funds Mass will be provided by the from the American Ireland Notre Dame Folk Choir, which Fund of Boston, Mass. has travelled to Ireland twice The celebration is sponsoredin the last three years to study by Notre Dame's Office of Irish sacred music. Under the Campus Ministry with help direction of Steven Warner, the from the American Ireland Folk Choir will be Fund and the Irish Institute of accompanied by flute, violin, Pastoral Liturgy in Carlow, Ire­guitar, organ, double bass, land. 
ND Press book receives major award 
Special to The Observer National University of Mexico. served the Hispanic community 
In 1984, he received an there ever since. 
A University of Notre Dame honorary doctor of law degree A past president of the Press book, "Harvest of Hope: from Notre Dame for his medi­Chicago Board of Health, Prieto The Pilgrimage of a Mexican­cal work among impoverished has served on church, educa­American Physician," by Jorge Hispanic people in the inner tional and labor union boards. Prieto, M.D., has received a city of Chicago. Since 1965, he has been physi­1991 Christopher Award. In 1923, when Prieto was five cian to the United Farmworkers 
The Christophers, an ecu­years old, his father, president Organizing Committee. 
menical not-for-profit organi­of the Mexican Congress, was He describes his autobiogra­zation based in New York City, driven into political exile and phy as depicting "a long pil­have given annual awards for emigrated to the United States grimage. From the villages in the last 42 years in recognition with his family. The Prietos the desert of Zacatecas to of "artistic excellence in films, were unable to return to Mexico Chicago's Board of Health, it books and television specials until 1933 and suffered the has been a mysterious. fruitful affirming the highest values of Depression on both sides of the journey. Often painful and the human spirit." border. sometimes fearful. Always a 
"Harvest of Hope" is the au­After receiving his medical risk, it had brought me far from tobiography of a Mexico City degree in 1949, Prieto worked my homeland to my destiny. It native who attended Notre as the sole physician serving had been possible only because Dame during the 1943-44 aca­four villages in the deserts of I had been sustained by the demic year before obtaining a northern !viexico. He emigrated strength of a woman's faith and degree in medicine from the to Chicago in 1950 and has the beauty of her love." 
:••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 


1 The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. . • • .i 
: an essential ingredient in your :•: career planning strategy :• 
: • Get a great summer job or work during breaks in corporate : : Chicago. : : • Bridge the gap between school and first time career placement. : : • Experience the wide variety of corporate environments in : : Chicago. : : • Receive skill development for automated corporate environments. : : • Receive career counseling. : : • Participate in c~mpetitive employee benefit and bonus program. : 



i CIDhce i 
• FOil TEMPOIIIAfiiEI • 
: ..: The Choice for Temporaries. Inc. • Chicago •312-372-4500 : 
•~....................................................................................•• 
...................................................................................._________________________________________________________________________________ -­



-~---~ 
page 6 The Observer Friday, March 8, 1991 
Tories take a beating in British by-elections 

The Observer/John Fabbre 

Relaxation time 

Freshmen (from left to right) Mike Scrudato, Ed Clark and Jim Breen take some time to relax and play a leisurely game of cards after midterm exams in a Cavanaugh dorm room Thursday. 
Yeltsin accuses Kremlin of fanning fears 
MOSCOW (AP) -Boris Yeltsin said Gorbachev should resign accused his critics Thursday of 
and turn over power to the using his highly controversial Federation Council. The council television interview last month includes the leaders of the 15 as a pretext to seek his ouster republics and about 20 smaller as president of Russia. autonomous regions, 
In a hastily arranged radio The interview set off a torrent speech, the embattled foe of of criticism from critics and Soviet President Mikhail Gor­even some former supporters of bachev also accused Kremlin Yeltsin. Many said he had gone and Communist Party leaders of too far in his opposition to exploiting fears of civil war to Gorbachev. justify hard-line policies. And Since the television com­he said farmers must be given ments, Yeltsin has spent most of ownership of their land if the Boris Yeltsln his time fending off charges country hopes to survive. scheduled an extraordinary that he is seeking power for 
"I think that the questions session of the Russian Repub­himself, as a leading member of about who is going to be leader lic's parliament on March 28 to the Federation Council. of Russia should not be solved hold a vote of no-confidence in In his radio speech, he in Cabinets behind closed Yeltsin. It could lead to his re­seemed to speak to his critics 
doors. The electorate can de­moval as president of the re­when he said: "The main thing cide this best of all," Yeltsin public, by far the largest in the is not competition in political said in an address on Russia's Soviet Union. games, not being caught up in independent radio station, Ra­Thursday's speech was a fol­intrigues, but solving the prob­dio Rossiya. low-up to Yeltsin's television in-lems that are most vital for the 
electorate." 


Come Watch Irish Hoops on 5 
TVs 


Fri + Sat 5-7 p.m. Show Student I D 

Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 4:3D-2/Fri. 4:3Q-3/ Sat. 12-3/ Sun. 12-12 
1602 Ironwood Dr., South Bend 

HURST GREEN, England (AP) -Despite Prime Minister John Major's soaring popularity, an exit poll indicated Thursday that his Conservative Party was headed for a stunning defeat in a special parliamentary elec­tion. 
With voters focused on ·a hated tax rather than victory in the Persian Gulf, a poll of 2,000 voters in the Ribble Valley dis­trict showed the Tories winning 38 percent of the vote, 10 points behind the centrist Lib­eral Democrat Party. 
"If this is right, I begin to wonder whether we can ever win a by-election," said Major's Education Secretary Kenneth Clarke. "The Liberals appear to have picked up a lot of votes as a protest vote." 
He was referring to last year's spectacular Conservative reversals in special parliamen­tary elections in districts in mid-Staffordshire and East­bourne. Labor won the first, and the Liberal Democrats the second. 
. Liberal Democrats were jubi­lant about Thursday's ballot, held on the tOOth day after Major took office. 
"It's the end of the John Major honeymoon," said party spokesman Matthew Taylor. "It makes clear there isn't a gulf factor at work in this country." 
The result of the hand­counted ballot was due to be declared about early Friday in Hurst Green, a Lancashire vil­lage in this rambling, largely rural district of 62,600 voters. 
The exit poll of 2,120 voters by National Opinion Poll for the British Broadcasting Corp. indicated a huge 25 percent swing against the government -the biggest swing in a by-election for nearly a decade. 
It showed Liberal Democratic candidate Michael Carr over­turning a huge 19,528-vote majority to crush Tory Nigel Evans and take one of the gov­
ernment's safest seats in the 650-member House of Com­mons. 
The main opposition Labor Party's Josie Farrington won 10 percent of the vote. The district was not thought promising for a socialist. 
Widespread opposition to the so-called poll tax, a per capita system of local taxation which replaced property taxes in England this year, dominated the campaign. The Gulf War was scarcely mentioned. 
The annual tax is $780 per person in Ribble Valley and represents a two-thirds in­crease for most households, compared to the former tax on property. Its introduction by the Conservatives was widely regarded as a political blunder and contributed to Margaret Thatcher's downfall last November. 
Major's Cabinet is struggling to come up with a different form of tax but is split. 
At the beginning of the week, another National Opinion Poll showed the Conservatives hanging onto the seat with a sharply reduced majority by 45 percent of the vote, 11 points ahead of the Liberal Democrats. 
Only 2 percent of the rela­tively prosperous electorate said the Gulf War was a main influence on their vote, com­pared with 57 percent who cited the poll tax. 
Thursday's election was called because the Conservative incumbent, David , was elevated to the unelected House of Lords. 
The result will have little im­pact on the Tories' commanding 96-seat majority in the House of Commons. 
But the Ribble Valley election has attracted national attention because the result will likely influence whether Major risks calling a general election this summer. 
a.c~:~J cc~::~)aD:'l:iaE'l:~'~·~,~·~~ <~-==e:;;~,..c•g;:=c•::--=::~·~'-Xs:'~:•:lG&.:~:>.a~ 

MARIGOLD 





MARKET 
ODe::.r<. A BASK-ET L>F 5HA.M~k. 60!::/Dic;;:S Ft::>~ Ye>UR ~VOJ2:JIE LEPREC.HAt-...1 ~ 
~OUR t:=:vER. PoPuLAR l~\SH 
{:.?AS~E-1. 
~A DoZEN ~HAtv'\t<:CX:I< COe>l<.tE:S .,)(sAN IRlS-H DINNER FoR. Two. ~ M~S. PRINDA"SLE.'S At="PL£S 
THE Luc.l< OF lt1E IRI'SH IS SV~ -ro FOLLOW!. ~ANt:>CL-e.veLA~D· 212·1922.. 

~----=, 3: =--<·,·(~m.c'?!II'X·~~~ -~~~~~.~~~~~~)!: K?•:a:-=c•~:~,_::JaEi(',~~~~~~~,..l'M 

, ·.I -I -•.' . 


Friday, March 8, 1991 OPERATION DESERT STORM page 7 

AP Photo A U.S. Marine patrol walks across the charred oil landscape near a burning well during perimeter security pa­trol near Kuwait City Thursday. The Marines are caked with oil and covered with soot from the burning wells. 
The U.S. government sai.d Wednesday that it appeared Iraqi forces were back in con­trol of Basra after Republican Guard units suppressed anti­Saddam riots. 
Residents reported demon­strations Wednesday in Basra and just south of the city in Zubair. One reported fighting in Karbala and Najaf, both Shiite Moslem holy sites northwest of Basra up the valley of the Euphrates. 
"Every day the opposition be­comes bigger," said a local farmer who left Basra early Thursday to walk home with his family. He identified himself only as Hassan. 
Hassan said there was also opposition in the southern towns of Samaneah, Nasiriyah, Diwaniyah, Muthena, Amarah and Shemoniya. 
None of these reports could be independently confirmed. Hussein Ali Kazem, 22, a stu­dent and farmer who left Basra 
he also saw the protests and executions. "There were bombs and tanks and I was scared," he said. 
A 35-year-old laborer who identified himself only as Mo­hammad said hundreds of peo­ple demonstrated against Sad­dam in Zubair on Wednesday. "They want the Baath Party to fall," he said. 
Afterwards, he said, he saw about 30 blindfolded people tied on tanks and shot. 
Karim, a young man who said he escaped from the military 18 months ago, said about 7,000 Iraqi regular Army soldiers who had left Kuwait had joined with civilians in the opposition. "Now, they are fighting just with the Republican Guard," he said. 
Some refugees said there were prominent pro-Iranian elements in the rebellion, but it seemed to be driven more by opposition to Saddam than any clear-cut ideology. 
Books, films, music to focus on Gulf War 
NEW YORK (AP) -Books and videotapes already have hit the market to chronicle and glorify America's swift victory in the Persian Gulf War. But many more non-fiction and fiction works are on the way. 
Some are set for release nearly a year from now, part of the entertainment industry's big bet that interest in Gulf War­related subjects will not fade with victory's afterglow. 
Agents say they are pursuing offers of up to $2 million for rights to such potential book and film stars as Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Colin Powell. 
One weekly supermarket tabloid says it offered $100,000 on Monday to the Newaygo, Mich., family of former prisoner of war Melissa Rathbun-Nealy for the exclusive rights to interview her. 
tarian who -advocates full "Everybody who tries to un­democracy. The Prince, who is dermine the ~ecurity of the rev­
Gulf 
prime minister, also said mar­olution is a traitor and a tial law may have to be ex­mercenary. .. . All of them shall
continued from page 1 
tended beyond the originally regret it. They will pay." missing in southern Iraq may declared three months. In Syria, a Shiite opposition be released Friday. The White In Iraq, Saddam struggled to leader, Ayatollah Mohammed House held Iraq responsible for put down rebellions that broke Taqi Mudaressi, said rioting had the journalists' safety, but out after he was forced to spread to Baghdad's Thawra spokesman Marlin Fitzwater withdraw from Kuwait. For the and Shulla districts. said "unfortunately, it may not first time since the unrest be­The neighborhoods are home be that Iraq has them." gan, the official media made di­to about 1.5 million people, 
Allied and Iraqi commanders rect reference to the upheaval. mainly impoverished Shiites. meeting under Red Cross aus­An editorial in the govern­Mudaressi claimed government pices discussed the release of ment daily Al-lraq said forces had been evicted from 14 63,000 Iraqi prisoners of war. "antagonists were trying to cities and towns from Basra to 
In Kuwait, Crown Prince Saad dismember Iraq and strike at its Khanaqin, on the Iranian bor­al-Sabah ordered an investiga­national unity." der. tion into the assassination at­Another government newspa­Iraq is ruled by Sunni Arab tempt of a former parliamen-per, Al-Thawra, threatened: Muslims, but about 55 percent 
"My game returns 
the highest percentage of revenues
T.C.G.R.F. B! 
to its players in the form of prizes" -the King 

+Our annual prizes exceed or equal those given by any other Fantasy/Rotisserie baseball operation. Prizes can amount to over $35,000. You will win weekly prizes no matter where your team is in the standings. +Fastest results, by mail or fax, accurate and legible. Our fax receives and sends, 24 hours a day. +Call In weekly. Our experts will provide free roster advice for new players by phone. +Top teams compete nationally for bonus prizes. +Competitive fees, no cost to acquire free agents. Discounts to students and Desert Storm people. Referrals rewarded. +Join us in 1991. We will credit you for either the "non-refundable deposit" or "franchise fee" you paid to others in 1991 or the "off-season" fee you paid in 1990. 
WE PROVIDE EVERY STAT FOR EVERY TEAM IN YOUR LEAGUE EVERY WEEK­UNLIKE SOME OF OUR COMPETITORS WHO PROVIDE STATS ONLY FOR YOUR TEAM, BI-WEEKLY, AND KEEP YOU WAITING UP TO 2 WEEKS. 
Call 1-800-445-3350 or write: 
t 219-09 Northern Blvd., Bayside, NY 11361, Suite 2901 +8033 Sunset Blvd., W. Hollywood, CA 90046, Suite 4052 
+1153 N. Dearborn, Chicago, IL 60610, Suite 304 t 11504 Hughes Rd., Houston, TX 77089, Suite 2026 
Private Rotluerle League Commissioners: We do stats speedily, accurately, and legibly anywhere In the world, by mall, fax, or modem. Refund If Not Satisfied. Competitive Fees. References Gladly Furnished. 
*The Country's Greatest Rotisserie/Fantasy Baseball Over 40 Years of Good Experience 
"As the first American female POW she has a hell of a story to tell," said Phil Bunton, editorial director at The Globe, but there's no word yet on her re­sponse. "There are a lot of Gulf War heros we'd like to tie up." 
Doubleday said it signed a book contract with CNN's Baghdad producer Robert Wiener in a deal one literary agent puts at $50,000 to $75,000. That's small potatoes compared with offers report­edly swamping CNN correspon­dent Peter Arnett, who spent the war in Baghdad. 
Bookstore shelves are bulging with some 30 Persian Gulf works. Sales of some war-re­lated books are starting to drop off at Barnes and Nobles' 800 stores, said spokeswoman Donna Pasananti. 
But publishers are hoping the public's waning interest in so-called "instant" books will be reinvigorated by more substan­tial works. 
Houghton Mifflin Co. has signed on investigative journal­ist Kenneth Timmerman and Washington Post Pulitzer Prize winner Rick Atkinson for books due in stores later this year. 
Houghton also accelerated the release date of Richard Set­lowe's fictional "The Black Sea," about a new world order where superpower technology is useless in the face of Muslim fundamentalism. 
Hollywood is also getting into the act. 
A number of independent production houses are working on action movies with Persian Gulf themes, including one in Dolby stereo on Americans kid­napped in Iraq titled "Human Shield." 

of its population of 17 million is Shiite. Non-Arab Kurds, who live in northern Iraq, also are a sizable minority and have been restive for years. 
Kurdish guerrillas claimed they had seized three towns on the main highway linking the mountain province with Bagh­dad. They said they have cap­tured 650 soldiers in recent fighting. 
In allied-occupied Safwan, a refugee told Associated Press correspondent Edith Lederer that forces loyal to Saddam had executed more than 400 opponents Wednesday, but protests to oust him continued in southern Iraq. 
MICHAEL J. FOX 
JAMES WOODS 4:45-7:30· "T' .... E 9:45 
HARD· 
·sAT& SUN MATINEE·

WAY 
1:45 

® 
4:45 PICTURr5 
SAT & SUN 

~~ 
Y\4nTE 
MATINEE 
1.30

R\NG 

.· ~ 
9:30



IDlE 
SAT & SUN


ALme 
MATINEE l'JO

Ill~ 
"Their hands were tied, then they tied them to tanks and shot them," said Hussein Ali Kazem, 22, a student and farmer who left Basra on Wednesday. "The bodies are still there, bound by the wrists at Sabat Saad," a traffic circle in the city, Iraq's second largest. 
The reports couldn't be inde­pendently confirmed. Some of the missing journalists had sought to visit the cities in tur­moil but were detained. 
The Pentagon said about 5,000 American servicemen and women will return to the United States daily during the next few days. 

jodie foster anthony hopkins scott glenn 
tho 5iiBOCBI 
of lholamb5 ® 



L.A. STORY 
Somethlng~
funny is happening in L.A. 

enemy 
julia
roberts 
1!1 







Viewpoint
page 8 Friday, March 8, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor •••••••••••••••.•••••••Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager .•....•••Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ...•••..••..... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager •.....••.... Amy Eckert Sports Editor ••••.••••••.•••••.•••Greg Guffey Production Manager .••••••••...•Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ••••••••••••.•.•.Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .•..Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director ................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

GCAG members harassed, victimized 
seen a dramatic scene of events. A ruthless military dic­tator ravaged a helpless neigh­boring country, and annexed it. The United States government, with economical and political ties to this helpless nation, mounted a massive world cam­paign of United Nations resolu­tions, embargoes and military firepower. With overwhelming world political and financial support, America and its allies drove the dictator and his dark plans reeling back into his country, to await the punish­ment from the world commu­nity for his evils. 
On the home front, for the first time in a long time, the president and Congress worked together on something other than a pay raise. The U.S. gov­ernment rallied behind the words of Speaker of the House Tom Foley, who said in a dra­matic speech before a vote on 
~ . presidential authority in the Persian Gulf War, that Congress should forget all political ties and should act "as our conscience and judgement told us we should." My, what a noble and novel concept. All in all, America and its allies worked together to solve what was once viewed as a dire threat to society, and the task only took seven months. So what next? As the world enters a 21st century filled with global warming, Tienanmen Squares and Baltic rebellions, the approach to the 21st cen­tury can be only one of animos­ity and doubt. America's out­look is also filled with questions as America stares at the 
DOONESBURY 
I IAJONO&R HOO ~Y'S MAJ<JNG aJT. 7H~ PlATOOV's 
NaTTH&S4M& 
WITHOUT HIM... 
\ 
and a trillion dollar deficit. The world and America have a lot of questions and problems to be answered and solved. 
Perhaps the world needs more Saddam Husseins to force immediate and complete action. Perhaps if China and the Soviet Union had brutal military crackdowns that killed and ravaged unprotected people, the world community would sit up and take just action. Perhaps, if the world environ­ment had a Saddam Hussein that abused the world's re­sources and environment, the world community would join together to end the senseless wastes and abuses. 
In America, if Saddam Hussein placed thousands of people out of their homes and forced them to live in the streets, then maybe the presi­dent and Congress would work together and vote "with their consciences and judgements" to solve the problem. 
The real tragedy is that there are many Saddam Husseins in the world today, whether in the form of a world leader or lax, unquestioning policies. These Saddam Husseins are more subtle but just as devastating as the one that invaded Kuwait seven months ago. Unfortunately, until these Saddam Husseins brutally in­vade small, helpless nations, they will probably still be al­lowed to thrive in our society. 
Andrew D. Iliff Carroll Hall March 5, 1991 
~WieRS CXJN'TREAU.Y FIGHT 
RJR la=At-?, OR FOR COUNTI<'r; 
tY. FOR 60l?. /1./e FI6HTRJRf.IJO{ 
OTH&R. .AFTl3R.. SIX MONTHS IN 7H5 l?f3S8RT lfX£THeR, !J13MYfJ(J{ll..flt1.1 MYNOJ's, MYUl3UT!3NANT, I'M 
tf/IU/N6 7D Pie F01<. t 
Dear Editor: 

In recent weeks, some female members of the Gulf Crisis Action Group have been the victims of harassing phone calls in response to the political views they have publicly ex­pressed. We certainly do not claim to have a lock on truth, and we welcome rational dis­cussion with those of differing viewpoints, for through such dialogue both sides can gain a better understanding of the is­sues and of each other. However, we are saddened and disgusted that any members of this University would resort to obscene, cowardly and anony­mous phone calls. 
The Gulf Crisis Action Group has tried to facilitate discussion and provide education of war issues. The group itself represents differing shades of opinion. While we all have op­posed this war for one reason or another, we have tried to always show respect and un­derstanding for those who have supported the war. We believe it is reasonable to expect the same kind of treatment from those with differing viewpoints. Clearly, anonymous phone calls do not initiate calm, rational dialogue, let alone create an atmosphere of mutual respect. We believe that this kind of attitude of intolerance and un­willingness to try to see another point of view is one of the prime causes of violence and war in our world today. It is also counter-productive to the mission of this University that such behavior exists. 
Recent misquotes and mis­

representations about our point of view have distorted what many understand our position to be. We realize that some may have questions about our point of view, and we welcome intelligent inqmnes and rational discussions. Comments and responses to our words and actions are welcomed as long as they are constructive and 
directed  to  the group  as  a  
whole.  
Jack Daly  
Michael B. Evans  
Amy Jenista  
Christine Kempf  
Michael Kremer  
Janet Meissner  
Tara Verdonk  

Gulf Crisis Action Group Feb.27, 1991 

Countdown to graduation is corrected 
•
Dear Editor: 

Today, as I sat down to enjoy lunch and read The Observer in the South Dining Hall, I nearly choked on my delicious turkey and cheddar sandwich as I read Accent Editor Colleen Cronin's Inside Column(The Observer, Mar. 4) about the approach of graduation. Her article contains several gross inaccuracies which I must address. She states that "As of this column, there are a mere 85 days left for the seniors." Later she goes on to say, .....I have only about nine weeks left." Where did she come up with these figures? 
Now assuming that it is March 4, 1991 (the day of the column appeared) at 12:00 p.m. 
(a time many are reading The Observer), and that Commencement ends around 
5:00 p.m. on Sunday, May 19, 1991, we seniors would only have 76.2083 days until gradu­ation is over (that's 10.8869 weeks). Incidently, this calcu­lates out to 1,829 hours, or 109,740 minutes, or 6,584,400 seconds. 
I have enclosed a copy of the spreadsheet output that I use on a daily basis to calculate the Countdown to Commencement. I developed this spreadsheet on Microsoft Excel; a version is also available for Lotus 1-2-3 users. It may also be used to calculate other countdowns or to figure out elapsed times, as 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

illustrated in additional enclo­sures. 
Perhaps as a graduation gift. Ms. Cronin's parents should consider giving her a 1991 cal­endar and a calculator. Better yet, she should obtain a copy of the Current Update spreadsheet mentioned above. Editors of newspapers should check all numbers, figures and calcula­tions before approving a piece for publication. This is just a typical example of poor editing so prevalent in campus publica­tions. 
Chris Napoli Fisher Hall Mar. 4, 1991 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

OKAY, MAYBe  
t.CT'5 NOT  NOT 7H& lAW­ 
6eTCtiR- TeNANT. BUT  
RIWAWAY.  1ve PEFINIT&Y  
\  BCW~I? WITH  

· ___.......,,....___ THe 5e<­GtAN7!3.1 
I 
'A journey of a thousand miles must begin with one step.' 

Lao Tzu 
Submit quotes to: QUOTES. P. 0. Box Q. 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 




Viewpoint
Friday, March 8, 1991 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hussein's war crimes demand trial to achieve justice 
Dear Editor: 
Now that the Allied forces have defeated the Iraqi army, many people will question whether or not to bring Saddam Hussein to trial for the war crimes he has committed. Hussein committed such atrocities as the maltreatment of POW's, taking Kuwaiti men prisoner, brutally torturing Kuwaiti citizens, attacking Israel, and committing envi­ronmental disasters. Diplomatic leaders and citizens, including Arabs, would support a war crimes trial. There may be skeptics to the possibility of a fair trial but that possibility could easily be assured. The biggest problem lies in the ac­quisition of Saddam Hussein to put him on trial, but, if we do not acquire him, justice could still be served. 
According to the Geneva con­vention, prisoners of war may not be used as "human shield" to protect enemy targets by the enemy. Saddam Hussein has admitted to maltreatment of the allied POWs and, therefore, has admitted his own guilt. 
Reports from liberated Kuwait City tell of the capture of over 1000 Kuwaiti men taken hostage by the Iraqi army. If all these men do not return home soon, Saddam Hussein should be liable for each one of their lives. He should be responsible even if a single one remains physically or emotionally damaged. 
Throughout the war and especially earlier this week, the 
Dear Editor: 
How patriotic of the Saint Mary's to genuflect to the glorification of the military. On Saturday March 2, LeMans Hall Council sponsored a dance in which war was celebrated in the theme of a USO dance. "Support the Troops" hailed the posters which were loyally decorated with the American flag. Indeed, what an innovative way to ignore the atrocious results of war, such as the horrifying number of the Gulf War casualties. 
Simply dance the night away amongst yellow ribbons and red, white and blue balloons. Why not go all the way and sport 'old glory' instead of the usual hall dance attire? Certainly the music must have reflected the nationalistic spirit as well. Possibly Lee Greenwood's "I Am Proud to be an American" capped off the evening. 
However, perhaps the LeMans Hall Council could have subscribed to a more realistic panorama of war by sprinkling blood and random limbs about the dance floor in place of the balloons. The destruction from the Patriot and Scud missiles would have been an appropri­ate motif for a dance embrac-Iraq should be stabilized. This

The stained black air of the One may give various ac­
must be done with Hussein out

Middle East represents the counts of what Saddam 
of power. The modern state

crimes of Saddam Hussein and Hussein may use as his 
system, established by the

the future which lurks before defense. He would most likely Treaty of Westphalia in the 19thhim. say that the Allied forces and century, needs to remain intact.
Many respected diplomats the Soviet Union sold him the 
Hussein did not respect the

believe that Saddam Hussein weapons which he used, borders of a sovereign state andshould be tried. These include making us partially 
must, therefore, be punished

United States Senators and the responsible. However, we did for his crime. 
Saudi Arabian Ambassador to not tell him how to use those The hardest part of carrying
the United States. President weapons, and we certainly did out such a trial would be to
Bush said, "No one should not tell him to use them against capture Saddam Hussein. This weep for this tyrant when he is innocent civilians. Hussein may probably will not happen. Our
brought to justice" also refer to unpunished 
objective, to free Kuwait and(Conservative Chronicle). The atrocities committed by other damage the Iraqi armed forces,leader of our country believes nations, and possibly referring has reached near completion, if in justice, and Hussein should to Israel's deportation of 

not total success. American

succumb to the punishment im­Palestinians from the West troops are only 150 miles fromposed upon him. Bank and Gaza Strip into Baghdad and could take the cityThe people of Kuwait have a Lebanon which violated the 
if the need arises. Saddam

strong and authentic need for Geneva convention. Israel's ac­
Hussein will either stay in

justice. If Hussein does not re­tions clearly violated the con­
power as a weak leader of a

ceive a trial the Kuwaitis will vention, but the Allied forces very crippled nation or he willbe invaded again, not by an did not just defeat Israel in a be overthrown by "his people"army of soldiers, but by an war. Therefore, they should not or the Iraqi armed forces. If this army of injustice. On Feb. 27, be subjected to war crimes. 
happens Hussein will not

Kuwaiti radio said of Hussein, Another problem which may receive a just trial, but he will"Sever the head of the snake be mentioned would be that of get what he probably deserves. 
and remove all the poison." impartiality. The United States 
The venom of Hussein has hurt probably will not be and should 
Rick Conners 

the Kuwaiti people; now the not be impartial, but one may 
Alumni Hall 

serpent must be punished. support a trial led by an inter­
Feb.27, 1991 

Letter distorts issues under the guise of 'academic responsibility' 
Dear Editor: letter that Israel had rejected International for the excessive 
We encourage fair and open the Baker peace plan, and that use of force and the use of tear debate on issues related to the only the PLO is interested in gas). Nevermind, too, that the continuing Middle East crisis. peace. Now we might forget PLO not only applauds the Scud Unfortunately, the incredible that the PLO has embraced attacks on Israel, that its fac­perspective of a letter recently Saddam Hussein as its latest tions openly shelled civilians in published in The Observer and hero, that prior to 1988 the northern Israel in support of signed Patrick Gaffney, et. al. PLO refused to recognize Iraq, and continue to torture only serves to distort and Israel's right to exist, that the and murder Palestinians. We misrepresent the issues of a PLO Charter still calls for the can forget the continuing land where people have suf­destruction of Israel and that atrocities of the PLO because fered far too long. the PLO still sanctions attacks they are on the side. of history 
Under the guise of academic on Israel. Yet even if we were that Gaffney believes to be responsibility and compassion to ignore what the PLO itself right. for the oppressed, this letter, has done, it is not possible to We agree with Professor along with other accounts of ignore the simple fact that Gaffney when he asks us to put the Middle East recently pub­Israel, not the PLO, accepted an end "to fruitless name call­lished in The Observer, seeks to the Baker peace plan. ing." Yet in his world it is right promote a political agenda at Yet all this is ignored in favor and proper to doubt the re­the expense of civility and rea­of promoting the illusion that sponsibility of his colleagues son. the PLO is a "conservative na­who would speak out against 
We are asked to consider the tionalist organization" of ex­one-sided presentations of the issue of academic responsibil­traordinary democratic charac­Middle East tragedy. One might ity. While the letter purports to ter (Professor Gaffney tells us well wonder about the attack correct Carla Johnson's letter this in The Observer, Feb. 25, to be expected by calling into (The Observer, Feb. 1) for in a letter outstanding for its question Peter Smith's (a "egregious distortions," it is hypocritical treatment of cosigner of the attack on clear to anyone who reads Eugene Hochberg-Halton's let­Johnson) outrageous claim re­Johnson's letter that the re­ter of Feb. 14). garding Iraqi atrocities: "I sponse has little to do with the In this letter Gaffney, in think if there are atrocities, in points Johnson raised. In her defense of his own credibility, large part our actions (the letter, Johnson asks that a dia­aligns himself with Ghada United States) are triggering off logue on the Middle East re­Talhami who is also cited by these atrocities" (South Bend frain "from attempts to incite Maura O'Siochain for his Tribune, Feb. 26). further hatred and division." statement that the Palestinians If Gaffney, Smith and others 
While Johnson clearly has a have suffered at the hands of wish to defend of justify the point of view, she is willing to Israel .. every human rights PLO and its supporters, let enter into a civilized violation one could think them forcefully state their rea­discussion. The attack on of-murder, torture, rape and sons for doing so. They should Johnson's credibility is plunder-all of the injustices not attempt to reduce the com­unfortunately not only removed that Hussein is accused of plex tragedy of the Middle East from the spirit of fair committing in Kuwait" (The to a one-sided propaganda war discourse, but it seeks to pro­Observer, Feb. 14). Nevermind where "academic responsibil­mote a point of view that is so that every nation at war with ity" becomes their point of narrow minded that all issues Israel (and thus "defenders of view. are reduced to simple right and Palestine") has been cited by wrong. The authors of the at­Amnesty International for the Roger Brooks tack are willing to sacrifice very horrendous crimes (mass Theology reason and accuracy for what arrests, murder and torture of Elliot Bartky they take to be right. Palestinians) which Israel is al­Government and 
We are told, for example, in leged to have committed (Israel International Studies this ..correction" of Johnson's has been cited by Amnesty March 7, 1991 national court of justice. Such a trial should include Western as well as Arab powers as judges. 
One may ask if a war crime trial would really work. Did the Nuremberg trials work? Have the Germans recently tried to take over the world? Is the Nazi party still in power in Germany? 
In international relations, a realist, one who believes in the framework of post 1914 world ideology, would say the state of 

world has learned of the tor­ture committed in Kuwait by Iraqi troops. The people of Kuwait, prisoners in their own country, endured murder, rape, pillage, and destruction by the Iraqis, an experience which should be compared to bar­baric piracy. 
Saddam Hussein has also at­tacked the nation of Israel for no just cause. Scud missiles bombarded the land which once stood beneath the feet of Jesus Christ. Thanks to the fine diplomacy of the Bush adminis­tration, the Israeli government did not even retaliate-a brave and unique situation of "turning the other cheek." 
If the 1990s shall make an impact on the history of envi­ronmental issues, one cannot overlook the environmental crimes Saddam Hussein has committed. The Iraqi army spilled more oil into the Persian Gulf than the Exxon Valdez. The fires of Kuwaiti oil storage facilities has now reached far into Turkey. Marine life has been murdered. 
ing the essence of war. Life size photos of victims from past wars would have added a his­torical decor to the evening as well. 
Certainly the USO enhances the soldiers' lives during wartime. However, there would be no need for any organiza­tions to ease the plight of the soldiers if war did not exist. Instead of esteeming the morale boosters of the military, the Saint Mary's community should behold war for what it is, the senseless slaughter of human lives in the name of vague ideologies, such as 'liberation.' 
If LeMans Hall Council was determined to have a war ju­bilee then they should have portrayed it realistically. But in­stead, why not exalt life and human ingenuity rather than destruction and human deprav­ity. A life affirming theme would have been more appro­priate for a community which nurtures reasoning, not blatant killing. 
Anne Hart Toni Oliveri Becky Ciletti St. Mary's Peace Support Group March 4, 1991 



'~ 


MARCH 8-10 


weekend calendar 

y 
MUSIC Rockhouse, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
sa 
ay 
MUSIC 
E.Z. Ed Wright & the Soul Sounds, Center Street Blues 
Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
EVENTS cavalcade of Wheels, JACC, 1oa.m. -1op.m. 
s 
y 
EVENTS cavalcade of Wheels, JACC, 10 a.m.-8 p.m. 
I 

FRIDAY "Italy," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m.: 

SATURDAY "Johnny Belinda," Morris Civic Auditorium, 7:30p.m. 
FORUM I "Sleeping WHh the Enemy," 7:30 & 9:30p.m. "Nothing But Trouble," 7:45 & 9:45 p.m. "Lionheart,•• 8 p.m. 
"Darkman," 9:50 p.m. 
100CENTER "Look Who's Talking Too," 7 & 9 p.m. "Edward Scissorhands;'7:30 & 9:30p.m. 
SCOTTSDALE "Sleeping WHh the Enemy," 4:45, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. "Home Alone," 4:30, 7:15 & 9:30 p.m. 
TOWN & COUNTRY "Silence of the Lambs," 4:30, 7:15 & 9:45 p.m. "WhHe Fang," 4:45, 7 & 9:30 p.m. "L.A. Story," 5, 7:30 & 9:45p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
"King Ralph," 1, 3, 5, 7 & 9 p.m. "He Said, She Said," 1, 3:10, 5:20, 7:30 & 9:40 p.m. "My Heroes Have Always Been Cowboys," 1:10, 3:20, 
5:30, 7:40 & 9:50 p.m. ; "Dances With Wolves," 1:15, 4:45 & 8:15 p.m. i "Scenes Fro!" ~ Mal~,'' 1 :20, 3:20, 5:20, 7:20 & 9:20 p.m. ·1 
·' 
"The Doors, 1.15, 4.10, 7 & 9.50 p.m. ·.
r 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST ~ "Home Alone," 2, 4:30, 7 & 9:20p.m. I "Neverendlng Story II," 2:15p.m. I "Awakenings," 4:20,7 & 9:30p.m. I "Shipwrecked," 1:45, 3:40, 5:30, 7:25 & 9:15p.m. 1 
\ 
.____,~,~~~~-:~>lt<",._...........<-~·-_..............,.,..........~x.--·"'""-'4'-'"""" .. .-;.·....~.:.,.. ..... ,-,.....:,;,."tj 
t 

By ROBYN SIMMONS and 
PAUL PEARSON 
Accent Staff 
As Notre Dame celebrates the Year of Women, the nation is celebrating Women's History Month. The following quiz is just a sampling of the scores of women who have left their mark on the world. You don't need a concentration in Gender Studies to take the test, and you don't even need a pencil. You might even be surprised at how much you didn't know about women's history. 
Answers are on page 12. 
1) Rosa Parks' refusal to sit in the back of the bus initiated a bus boycott in... 

a) 
Birmingham, Alabama 

b) 
Huntsville, Alabama 

c) 
Montgomery, Alabama 

d) 
Mobile, Alabama 

2) 
Who is the only woman (and one of the few people) to win the Nobel prize twice? 

a) 
Marie Curie 

b) 
Golda Meir 

c) 
Margaret Thatcher 

d) 
Eleanor Roosevelt 

3) 
Rosie the Riveter represented ... 

a) 
immigrant factory workers 

b) 
women who worked in the auto industry 

c) 
women who worked in weapons plants during WWII 

d) 
women in the construction indus­try 


4) 
Anne Frank and her family hid from the Nazis in ... 

a) 
Berlin 

b) 
Dresden 

c) 
Brussels 

d) 
Amsterdam 

5) 
Gloria Stei_nam is the founder of. . 


a) 
the National Organization of Women 

b) 
the League of Women Voters 

c) 
Ms. Magazine 

d) 
Cosmopolitan 


6) 
The National Organization of Women was started in ... 


a) 1968 
b) 1966 
c) 1960 
d) 1970 
7) Jane Addams is the founder of... 

a) 
the Suffragette movement 

b) 
Hull House 

c) 
YWCA 

d) 
the American Red Cross 


8) 
Harriet Tubman is best known for her work... 

a) 
in the Underground Railroad 

b) 
as a writer for The Liberator 

c) 
as an advisor to Abraham Lincoln 

d) 
as a Suffragette 


9) 
The corset was a garment that women wore... 

a) 
to make their skirts fuller 

b) 
when they were pregnant 

c) 
to cover their legs 

d) 
to tighten their waistlines 



10) Which female leader was in power for the longest period of time? 
a) 
Indira Gandhi 

b) 
Benazir Bhutto 

c) 
Margaret Thatcher 

d) 
Corazon Aquino 


11 
) Who was the first head of gov­ernment to bear a child while in office? 

a) 
Indira Gandhi 

b) 
Benazir Bhutto 

c) 
Violeta Chamorro 

d) 
Corazon Aquino 



12) Bloomers were... 
a) 
flowered hats worn by women 

b) 
trousers worn underneath a skirt 



c) a nickname for women who wore ribbons in their hair 
d) floral-patterned dresses 

13) Jane Austen is the author of which of the following novels? 
a) 
"The Heart of Darkness" 

b) 
"Wuthering Heights" 

c) 
"Pride and Prejudice" 

d) 
"Jane Eyre" 


14) Maya Angelou is the author of .. 
a) 
"The Bell Jar" 

b) 
"The Color Purple" 

c) 
"The Good Mother" 



d) "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings" 
15) How many women have won the Academy Award for Best Director? 
a) 
none 

b) 
one 

c) 
two 

d) 
three 



16) Which of the following films starred Grace Kelly? 
a) 
"Notorious" 

b) 
"The Birds" 

c) 
"To Catch a Thief" 

d) 
"Some Like in Hot" 



17) Which of the following films starred Katherine Hepburn? 
a) 
"The Maltese Falcon" 

b) 
"Adam's Rib" 



c) "Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?" 
d) "The Man Who Knew Too Much" 

18) Who was the first woman to orbit space? 
a) 
Sally Ride _ 

b) 
Christa McAuliffe 

c) 
Judith Resnik 

d) 
Amy Carter 


19) Mother Teresa received the No­

bel Peace Prize in ... a) 1978 b)1979 c) 1980 d) 1981 
20) "I Am Woman" was recorded in 1972 by... 
a) 
Carly Simon 

b) 
Diana Ross 

c) 
Bette Midler 

d) 
Helen Reddy 



21) "The Feminine Mystique" was written in 1963 by... 
a) 
Helen Gurley Brown 

b) 
Molly Yard 

c) 
Betty Friedan 


d) Gloria Steinam 
22) Flappers were... 
a) 
young women who defied social conventions during the 1920s 

b) 
young women who defied social conventions during World War I 

c) 
female pilots 

d) 
nuns 




23) Joan of Arc was a French military leader during ... 
a) 
the 13th century 

b) 
the 14th century 

c) 
the 15th century 

d) 
the 16th century 


24) What female tennis player de­feated Bobby Riggs in a "battle of the sexes?" 
a) 
Martina Navratilova 

b) 
Chris Evert 

c) 
Billie Jean King 

d) 
Steffi Graf 




25) Which female athlete did not win a gold medal in the Olympics? 
a) 
Dorothy Hamill 

b) 
Peggy Fleming 

c) 
Mary Lou Retton 

d) 
Debi Thomas 


26) Grandma Moses' style of painting is known as... 
a) 
cubism 

b) 
primitivism 

c) 
impressionism 





page 11 


d) realism 
27) When did Golda Meir become 
the prime minister of Israel? a) 1967 
b) 1968 
c) 1969 d) 1970 
28) Florence Nightingale was a nurse during... 
a) 
the Crimean War 

b) 
World War I 

c) 
the Russo-Japanese War 

d) 
the American Civil War 


29) What was the first U.S. state or territory to give women the right to vote? 
a) 
Utah 

b) 
California 

c) 
Nevada 

d) 
Wyoming 


30) Women were first hired by the 
U.S. government during ... 
a) 
the Civil War 

b) 
the Spanish-American War 

c) 
WWI 

d) 
the Reconstruction 


31) Margaret Mead studied the so­cialization of children on the island of 
a) 
Borneo 

b) 
Java 

c) 
Samoa 

d) 
Fiji 


32) In 1866, Lucy Hobbs became the first woman to graduate from ... 
a) 
medical school 

b) 
law school 

c) 
dental school 

d) 
business school 


33) Margaret Bourke-White is best known for her photographs in ... 
a) 
the New York Times 

b) 
the Saturday Evening Post 

c) 
Life Magazine 

d) 
Ladies Home Journal 


34) Who was the first African-Ameri­can to sing with the Metropolitan 
Opera of New York City? 
a) 
Billie Holiday 

b) 
Ella Fitzgerald 

c) 
Bessie Smith 

d) 
Marian Anderson 


35) What sitcom star was the chair­woman of Another Mother For Peace in the late 1960s? 
a) 
Donna Reed 

b) 
Lucille Ball 

c) 
Eve Arden 


e 
1 
d) Mary Tyler Moore 
36) Which "girl group" of the early 1960s recorded "Please Mr. Post­man?" 
a) 
The Crystals 

b) 
The Marvelettes 

c) 
The Shirelles 

d) 
The Supremes 


37) How many number one singles did the Supremes record? 
a) 
six 

b) 
eight 

c) 
ten 

d) 
twelve 


Is Not 
Mrs. 
Winslow's 
Soothing 
Syrup 
As Millions of Mother1 
Will TeU You. n !tael._ ,_ C'llW. '' .wr... ,. c.... 
II All•.. ell,.... II t·.,... W4a4 CWI& 
II .. ,. 
38) What is the name of the United States' first coeducational college, which opened in 1833? 
a) 
Carleton 

b) 
St. Olaf 

c) 
Oberlin 

d) 
Mount Saint Mary's 


39) In 1906 which country became the first European country to grant suffrage? 
a) 
Finland 

b) 
Sweden 

c) 
Norway 

d) 
Germany 


40. Margaret Sanger was an advo­cate of... 
a) 
birth control 

b) 
no-fault divorce laws 

c) 
women's property rights 

d) 
Equal Rights Amendment 


41. How many states did the ERA . fall short of getting passed as a · constitutional amendment in 1982? 
a) 
ten 

b) 
eight 

c) 
five 

d) 
three 


42. Maria Mitchell, named the first woman member of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences in 1848, was a professor of... 
a) 
biology 

b) 
astronomy 

c) 
chemistry 

d) 
botany 


43. In the 1908 Summer Olympics, what was the only sport with a • category for women? 
a) 
gymnastics 

b) 
swimming 

c) 
archery 

d) 
cycling 


44. This writer on natural history be­came the first president of the Harvard · Annex, which became Radcliffe Col-· 
lege. Who was she? 
a) 
Maria Martin Bachman 

b) 
Lucy Sistare Say 

c) 
Mary Fairfax Greig Somerville 

d) 
Elizabeth Cabot Cary Agassiz 


45. Khaleda Zia recently was elected the leader of what country? 
a) 
Madagascar 

b) 
Laos 

c) 
Bangladesh 

d) 
Pakistan 


46. Jeannette Rankin, the first woman in the U.S. Congress, repre-
Half So SootbiDI to &byu 
,_, • ..,. , Dlw;A1 1 
sented which state? 
a) 
California 

b) 
New York 

c) 
Colorado 

d) 
Montana 


47. Redstockings are... 
The Whol• Earth Cataloguet calk it· 
·A masterpiece, *~ ·$t%· , rM;,·W. -~··· ·~.,..·.~···~· ~~\t -~;\#t -~ -~~··.· ~(# w·~$1~ br \},...~f$','\\O*it -4A@ * ~··~ 
:-~~~~! ~f}t*-·::;~~;:;~ ~~::~: ;#=·= 
S.tun:lar Rwlew says­.lt~s one·Of those rare boots thattrvly make a dilfferenee, 
--~ t'#; li-t"'~ ;f'~ ~---~ ~-· 
.~...~ -~-~-. -~ ·~· ~~ 

=~=~~~=~-~=~~ 
. .··.··.kt~~!illt.~"it. -~~-~-l«ti!it•~· ...·.··-~~·.. "''~~$\t~; ~wrft$-•.··. 
a) 
clothing that prostitutes used to wear 

b) 
members of a feminist group in Denmark 

c) 
cheerleaders for the Boston Red Sox 

d) 
stockings worn by ladies in Catherine of Russia's court 


48. In what year did Shirley Chisholm become the first African­American woman to be elected to Congress? 
a) 1966 
b) 1968 
c) 1970 d) 1972 

49. Which British author penned "A Vindication of the Rights of Women" in 1792? 
a) 
Charlotte Bronte 

b) 
Mary Shelley 

c) 
Emily Bronte 

d) 
Mary Wollstonecraft 


50. In 1950, Florence Chadwick broke the record for... 
a) 
sailing around the world 

b) 
swimming the English Channel 

c) 
the women's 50-yard dash 

d) 
the Boston Marathon 


51. What was the first country to grant women suffrage in 1893? 
a) 
Australia 

b) 
Canada 

c) 
Brazil 


d) 
New Zealand 


52. What year did the U.N. Commis­sion on the Status of Women desig­nate as the International Women's Year? 
a) 1955 b) 1965 c) 1975 d) 1985 

53. Who was the first woman in the Cabinet? 
a) 
Frances Perkins 

b) 
Eleanor Roosevelt 

c) 
Elizabeth Dole 

d) 
Jacqueline Kennedy 


What will be the n1ost important women's issues of the 1990's? 
Compiled by Kate Keckler. Photos by Kevin Weise. 
Jocelyn Allen, Resident Assistant, Pasquerilla 
West: 


"Wage equality. I feel that women have gained positions traditionally held by men but have not received equal pay. If a woman is going to do the same job as a man, she should be paid equally, not 65 cents to every $1 he makes. Also, the abortion issue is tearing women, as a separate sector of America, apart, pitting woman against woman." 

Silvia Anadon. Associate Professional Specialist and Concurrent Instructor. Romance Languages and Uterature: 
"One of the most important (issues) women have to fight is violence. Violence towards women, children, and the environment. Women also have to be able to integrate men into feminist thinking, because they have to work together to help solve problems in the world. Women have to be heard politically. They have to fight and gain a place in the decision-making process of government and not to lose perspective of her nature, and the condition of women." 
Laurie Brink, rector of 
Pasquerilla West: 


'Tm concerned about the feminization of poverty. In America, the greater number of poor are women and children. So many resources that could go to Head Start programs, mother/child nutrition, education and health, go instead to war and defense purposes." 

Patricia O'Hara, vice president, Student Affairs: 

"Maintaining a balance between personal and professional life and child care issues." 
·-­
page 12 The Observer Friday, March 8, 1991 







On sacrifice and how 'a terrible beauty is born' 
In August 1915, the Irish poet Yeats told the American novel­ist Henry James that he did not "feel inclined to write a war poem, even on Edith Wharton's invitation." 
He sent James a few verses in that spirit, "On Being Asked for a War Poem:" "I think it better that in times like these/ A poet's mouth be silent, for in truth/ We have no gift to set a statesman right ... " 
The truth seems to be, says Denis Donoghue, an Irish critic, that Yeats did not feel inclined to put his Muse to work on England's behalf, "but he never thought himself incapable of setting statesmen right if he felt sufficiently exasperated by their follies. A few months later, the Easter Rising set his verses astir; he saw no reason to silence himself on that occa­sion." 
The Easter Rising began on Easter Monday, 1916, when an Irish republic was declared by nationalist leaders, who were quickly crushed by the English forces. By the end of April 300 people were dead; and in early May, 15 leaders--four of them mentioned in Yeats' poem, "Easter 1916"--were executed. "I write it out in a verse--/ MacDonagh and MacBride/ And Connolly and Pearse/ Now and in time to bej Wherever green is wornj Are changed, changed utterly:/ A terrible beauty is born." 
Maybe poets have no gift to set a statesman right on mat­ters of war and peace. Perhaps priests have no gift to set a statesman right on sacrifice and the shedding of blood. But 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
I read the poets, and they fur­nish me with metaphors. I read President Bush, and he leaves me in gloom. 
You have to be inwardly blind, or a little mad, to look at a city you have just destroyed with bombs, and imagine that you're going to build the New Jerusalem on the still-smolder­ing ruins. 
Now it's Bush's turn to have a pipe dream about building a new world order. I wish him luck. 
I'm happy that the generals got the war over quickly. How­ever, I think they they could have used some coaching. Lou Holtz could have told them that it's overkill to run up the score on a weak opponent. 
My acquaintance says that I don't like the President because he's a Republican, and I'm a Democrat. She doesn't know that back in Maine, my family were almost like royalty in the Republican Party. When Alf Landon came to Portland in 1936, as the Republican candi­date campaigning against Roo­sevelt, my father sent Landon the fish that he ate for supper. 
I don't dislike Bush, but isn't it scary to think he chose Quayle to be only a heartbeat away from the Presidency? When you consider Bush, then Nixon, you could get the im­pression that anyone who has hung around Washington as the Vice President for eight years, starts to have a lean and hungry look. 
Maybe if Bush hadn't been left to stew in his own juices too long, he wouldn't have been in such a hurry to get rid of Noriega. Noriega was a piece of garbage our country had been sponsoring for years. In England, the pundits point out that when Noriega became so notorious that even the Ameri­can cousins couldn't put up with him, Bush sent the Marines rushing in to get rid of him. They succeeded in killing untold hundreds of Panamanian civilians who got in their way. 
Last summer, a columnist writing for the London Times mentioned that, though Bush was jackassing U.N. members into a coalition against Sad­dam, Bush was still, in the writer's opinion, a wimp, which was fine with the writer: "If, eventually, a war starts, I'd rather be dragged into it by a wimp, noted for being cautious, than by a warhawk spoiling for a fight." 
When the American press started to report last fall the rumors that the wimp was spoiling for a fight, Bush began to grate on my nerves. An American President, who has 
the least understanding of ally more than it does one's en­
sacrifice and the shedding of emy. blood, should have to be Imagining myself, sometimes, dragged kicking and screaming as the father of a lad who into the horror of war, instead fought in Korea or Vietnam, I of lusting to be its principal ar­try to picture myself, reading 
chitect. the St. Crispin's Day speech, The Persian Gulf War--which out of Henry V, with him, to is presently more popular than see if it makes sense to him: the sins of the flesh--will some "This story shall the good man day be regarded, I suspect, as teach his son;/ And Crispin the madcap adventure of Peter Crispian shall ne'er go byJ But Pan in the Oval Office, trying to we in it shall be remembered;/ prove to the other homeless We few, we happy few,/ we boys, who don't want to grow band of brothers/... And up, that he has courage of At­gentleman in England, now a­tila the Hun. bed/ Shall think themselves ac­
curs'd they were not here/ ... 
Why should a President, That fought with us upon St. elected to give us back the Crispin's day." American Dream, feel that he On television, I see the tragic has the right to use the wealth Irish faces of the mourners fol­of the New World to pay for the lowing the casket of a sergeant bombs leveled against the An­in the Royal Ulster constabu­cient World, as though he were lary, killed by a bomb placed by doing the Kuwaitis, whose the Provisional I.R.A., in a Lon­country he's still trying to lib­donderry hotel. "Another erate, a favor? bloody Brit bites the dust," says 
If I'm hard on Bush, it's as a some crony of the terrorists. warning to students to take a close look at the people they The bloody Brit leaves a fa­vote for. ther a mother to survive him, I 
A sensitivity to the meaning see on the tube. Would they be­of sacrifice and the shedding of lieve you if you told them, "A blood should, I think, be part of terrible beauty is born?" a Christian's formation. Your-=o---=-------------, don't have to be a Christian to Qul·z anSWe 
realize that none of us is more rs 

49.d
fully human than when we're 1. c 13. c 25. d 37. d helping people as the Good 2· a 14. d 26. b 38. c 50.b 
3. c 15. a 27. c 39. a 51.d
Samaritan helped them. 

52. cNon-Christians like Gandhi 4· d 16. c 28. a 40. a 
5.c 17. b 29. d 41. d 53. a
taught this century that if hu-6 b man beings want to do God's · 18. a 30. a 42. b will on earth, they should spend 7· b 19. b 31. c 43. c 
8. a 20. d 32. c 44. dtime taking bodies down from 
9
the cross, not hanging them on · d 21. c 33. c 45. c
10
nails with violence that has a · c 22. a 34. d 46. d backlash that damages one's 11. b 23. c 35. a 47. b 
12. b 24. c 36. b 48.b 

FOUR YEARS OF COLLEGE 


DOWN THE TUBES. 

WE.D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER lS M'\DE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTilUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 

J'ht .. I i•.\'.t il.t !~·. "."'1 


THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 
Joins with the 
Obserwr 

in hoping for the quick and safe return of our friends and loved ones in the Persian Gulf. 
If you think the tests in col­lege are tough, wait until your first job interview. Last year, America's businesses lost $60 billion to drugs. means you won't be considered 
So this year, most of the for employment. Fortune 500 will be administer­After all, if you're into drugs, ing drug tests. Failing the test how smart can you be. 
WE'RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
Partnership for a Drug-Free America 

Friday, March 8. 1991 The Observer 'page 13 
Big East Tournament sees Georgetown, Providence on NCAA bubble 
NEW YORK (AP} -St. John's has always been synonymous with Madison Square Garden, and it seems the Redmen should have a convenient homecourt advantage in the Big East tournament which is played there. 
The 20th-ranked Redmen face Providence tonight in the third of the quarterfinal games, and Friars coach Rick Barnes isn't buying any talk of a slump which has seen St. John's drop 12 places in The Associated Press college basketball poll over the last month. 
"People told me they haven't been playing well, but they won three of four, and the wins were all at Madison Square Garden," Barnes said Thursday. 
The Redmen are 282-160 since they started playing in the Garden in 1931. They were 5-1 this season, including wins over Syracuse and Georgetown. 
But the Big East tournament has been a different story. The last time the Redmen won a tournament game was when they won the tournament ­1986, when Ron Rowan's final­seconds jumper beat Syracuse. 
The Redmen (20-7, 10-6} fin­ished second in the conference, two games behind Syracuse, and split the regular-season meetings with Providence (16­11, 7-9). 
"Two too-good games," Carnesecca said. "We were lucky to win the first one in overtime. They run they press; they have Murdock. You hope he doesn't go completely berserk. Think about that. He's averaged 27 points a game, so nobody has stopped him." 
Eric Murdock, the NCAA's all­time steals leader, scored 31 and 28 points in the two games with St. John's. He'll have to approach that number again as the Friars appear to need a vic­tory to ensure an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament. 
"We don't think we're here to win a game and make the NCAA. We haven't talked about that and we won't," Barnes said. "We're only concerned with this tournament right now." 
Another team which would appear to need a game to make the NCAA field is Georgetown (16-11, 8-8), since four of the Hoyas' victories came over non­Division I teams. They face de­fending champion Connecticut (18-9, 9-7) in the last of the quarterfinal games. 
"I don't think it's a certainty either way that we're in or out," Georgetown coach John Thompson said of a possible first-round loss. "I think it's the responsibility of the selection committee, and that's why those people were appointed. If we win it, there's nothing for anyone to decide. If we don't get in, we'll live with that. It's not like we've been loafing and all of a sudden come here and realize we're trying to get in the NCAA tournament." 
The day doubleheader fea­tured Pittsburgh (20-1 0, 9-7) against No. 21 Seton Hall (19-8, 9-7). in a matchup of teams which have at-large berths sewn up regardless of what they do in the tournament, and No. 4 Syracuse (26-4, 12-4) and Villanova, which beat Boston College 74-73 in Thursday night's outbracket game. 

Villanova (15-13) beat Syracuse 76-66 this season at the Carrier Dome and the Wildcats have always been one of the Orangemen's main neme­ses. 
"How many other conferences are so balanced that the No. 1 seed could be playing the No. 8 team which beat it during the year," said Syracuse's Jim Boeheim, who was named con­ference coach of the year on Thursday. "This whole tour­nament will be close games, and a lot of the games could come down to the last couple of minutes." 
Villanova coach Hollie Massimino wasn't ecstatic after the victory over Boston College, which played without head coach Jim O'Brien, whose wife Christine, 41, died Sunday and was buried Thursday morning. 
"Our prayers and thoughts were with Chris, Jimmy and the girls," Massimino said, refer­ring to O'Brien's 16-and 13­year-old daughters. "Jimmy and I are good friends and thankfully we didn't have school this week and we were able to get up there for a visit. I feel especially sorry for that team tonight." 
The Wildcats, who snapped a three-game losing streak, had to play Syracuse just 17 hours after beating the Eagles (11­20), who ended the season with an eight-game losing streak. 
"We're very excited about playing the number one seed tomorrow," Massimino said. "It will be tough to come back in the afternoon. Hey, we're just happy to be here." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 


Classifieds 
spaces. 

( NOTICES  LOST: A CHARCOAL-GRAY SUIT COAT AT THE P.W. FORMAL CALL ED AT X1891  FORRENT I GRAD. WEEKEND  Loretta, No matter what lies ahead I want you to know I love you more than anything else and will do anything to  CATHY NEWSTROM TURNS 21 ON MARCH 1Oth Top Cathy Quotes -Am I snot-hanging yet?  LOST AT PW I FISHER FORMAL: ON SAT. MARCH 2 Charcoal-grey, pin-striped suit coat  
TYPING AVAILABLE  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  save what we have together.  -Cu .... Cumber!  w/ 213 dorm keys attached to  
287-4082  219-291-7153.  Love, Glenn  -Work it, work it, OWN it!  FORD key ring.  
LOST: Brown leather ID holder  -Col, I'm doing something I'm  
NY TIMES, used and new books  with $$$$ at bookstore or  3 BEDROOM APT. AVAIL. NOW!  STAND-UP COMEDIANS; need  really gonna regret in the  IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MATI  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  library on 3/1 . Reward if all  NEAR CAMPUS. 233-7631.  comedians for SUB comedy night  morning-PLEASE pick up the  X 1650  
corner of ND ave. & Howard  is returned. Teresa 271-9299  on April 3; call Adam x3374  phone!  
10-5:30 everyday  4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92  -Gimme a beer to wash this  F F FFFFFFF  
Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone#232-1776.  To all the 1990-91 Observer staff:  down!  AC AC A C  
Dissertations, Theses, Papers  LOST: multicolored cloth  To coin a cheesy phrase, "Thanks  She won't be feelin' too hot hot hot  E E E E  
Professional Typing 277-7406  changepurse. lost between Main Circle and PW. Great sentimental  Furnished Bedrooms and Sharee Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr.  for the memories." Good luck to the new staff--l'm sure you'll all be  on March 11th! We love you, Cath! PATM  F F FFFFFFF A A A A  
value. You can keep the change,  Washer and Dryer. $200 per month  great.  c c c c  
RESUMES..PROFESSIONAL  just give me the changepurse! Call  includes u1ilities. Ph. 232-1776.  I'll miss all of you.  TOP 1 0 ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF  EEE EEE EEEEEEE  
QUALITY. CALL 272-5667.  Robyn at 2906. Gracias.  Cheers,  BERT KOEHLER IV  
..  ............,L_o_s_T_IF_o....,.......u~N~o~l  r=l====w=A=N=T=E=D;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;--1  L.~:w~~~oJ  Ally ATIENTION LADIES: Still stuck on campus?  10. Not sleeping through a date with a cheerleader this year . 9. Getting an A on a paper despite misspelling the first word.  Jennifer, o· Jenny-Get some sun and fun babe. Oh, and we are still accepting applica·  
found: on 2/22/91 a lady's  3 BDRM HOME FOR SALE BY  Still haven't found anyone to  ("Faulker?")  tions, aren't we? I'm  
wristwatch was found outside of  SUMMER JOBS  OWNER. FIREPLACE, CIA, FMRM  spend your break with?  8. Stuffing his computer with  waiting ... -Debra  
Knott Hall around 11:00 p.m. If you  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  W/BAR. MOVE-IN COND. 15 MIN  Call x4246 for your most  "Animal House" quotes.  
can identify it, call x1209.  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  WALK FROM NO. APPT ONL V.  interesting vacation ever!  7. Stuffing his stomach with 2  HI ESPY!!!  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR  234-8116, EVE.  orders of Denny's Nacho Feast.  Just wanted to wish you an early  
FOUND: ONE MEN'S SEIKO  LAKE PLACID. CALL  HEIDI "I don't want to be your  6. Getting a work schedule that  happy 21st birthday before I leave  
WATCH. FOUND IN THE PARKING  1-800-343-8373.  Bar with sink. Five stools. Misc.  fantasy, cuz baby you can be mine"  allows him an entire 10 hours a  fo; break. Hope it's a great one,  
LOT (02) THE WEEK OF 2/18-22.  glasses. 289·5345.  NOBLE is finally going to be 21 on  week for sleep.  you deserve it!! Remember ­ 
CALL CAROLINE AT X4354 TO  Sat. Call 284-5084 and wish her a  5. Drinking a whole gallon of milk.  guggle, guggle, guggle !!. Your  
CLAIM.  National marketing film seeks  Tandy 1000EX/IBM compat/  happy day.  (Whoops! Sorry ...)  friend,  
outgoing part time individual to  5.25" int dr/3.5" ext dr/color  4. Passing Finite Math without  Susan  
LOST 8-9 KEYS 2-22. THE KEY  implement special marketing  mntr/Deskmate prgm + others/  ADOPTION: Loving, professional  attending a class.  
CHAIN IS A WHITE BALL.  projects. Flexible hours and  blank 3.5" disks. $500 or B.O.  couple will give your newborn the  3. Passing Calculus in the same  HEYEASYB­ 
REWARD.  excellent pay. Call Monica at 800­ Connie X7177  best things in life. Let us help you  stellar fashion.  What more could you ask for than a  
CALL MARK X1584  592-2121.  through this difficult time. Medical  2. Posing for that lovely Observer  week of sun, beach, good food, and  
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  expenses paid. Legal/confidential.  ad.  ME? I'd call it paradise. Maybe  
Someone accidently picked up  EARN $300/$500 PER WEEK  Buying a car? Good rates. Call me  Call Barbara and Joe anytime.  1. SURVIVING TO CELEBRATE  Kevin will come too! ILY!  
my long gray tweed winter  READING BOOKS AT HOME.  for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993.  (800) 253-8086.  HIS 20TH BIRTHDAY (we hope)!  LI'L HIPPO  
coat with a velvet collar  1-615-473-7440 EXT. B  Office near campus.  
Saturday night at a party on  At times it may seem my heart is  Brought to you by THE  hello kel, mel and murph- 
Notre Dame Ave. A similar  Need ride to WISCONSIN  Toron RTS racquetball racquet  taken by GUNNER NELSON, but  ROOMMATES FROM HELL!  1 hope that you are having fun and  
coat was left behind. If you  for a sunny Spring Break!  $99/best 233-3059  when I become 21 and cool like my  Paul, Joe, Justin, Mike and The  being wild  
have it please call Karin at x1992.] FOUND: Gloves in Cushing (2nd  Please call Frank at x1443 and leave a message. WANTED: PAINTERS  TICKETS II  other friends -maybe I'll find a new love. HEIDI NOBLE HEIDI NOBLE WILL FINALLY BE A  Kodiak Kid. HEY CUTIE! I'm sure gonna miss those  see you soon-Lisa I hope that everybody realizes that Jenny Flss and Kara Duncan are  
floor, rm 224?) on Sun. 2/24/91 .  SB/Chic!Denver 1 way  "LEGAL EAGLE" 284-5084  puppy dog eyes and that  now 21­ 
Call Matt @3472.  College-Pro Painters looking for  Mar 9, Cheap 277-9361  Call her and tell her she is your  sweet smile!  look out South Bend-they are on a  
Found lady's golden ring near the stadium. Paul t.271-0868  painters for the summer. Work outside, with peers-Good Money! No Experience Necessary.  !PERSONALS!  favorite bird. WILL HEIDI JOIN THE CIRCUS ... or NOT!!!  Keep SHY GUY company and tell him that it won't be too long before we're together again!!  rampage. ...................................... Rich,  
Found: Men's watch in 02 parking  1991-92 HOLY CROSS  Luv Ya! -LB.  Have a fabulous time in West Palm!  
lot. Call x1852 to identify.  Locations: Ch1cagoland Rockford,  ASSOCIATES-Applications due  MONICA YANT,  Don't do anything evil. Love.me  
Madison·Wisconsin  MARCH 20! Contact M.A.White  Have an awesome break. and be  FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY  
LOST:  (5521) or M.A.Roemer (7949).  sure to get plenty of rest! Why?  CALLING VANESSA 272-9305.  Bubbles, don't be evil on your  
@ Fisher I PW Formal on  Call: 1-800-544-3255 for  Many rewards helping those who  Because we're gonna have THE  cruise. Stick to shuffleboard!!!!  
Sat. March 2  applications  need you!  NEWS WEEK FROM HELL when  The TUTUS ARE COMING!!!!!!  
Charcoal-grey, pin-striped  we return. But, don't worry. As  The TUTUS ARE COMING!!!!!!  Monica Yant is a big goob. She  
suit coat w/213 dorm keys  Resumes .... Professional quality  Saddam Hussein recently said,  Are you excited?  thrives on her personal personals.  
attached to FORD key ring.  ...ATIENTION JUNIORs••••  272-5667. (Tom Williams)  "Things can only get better.·  
NEED A ROOMATE FOR NEXT  We're Five Guys Who Aren't Afraid  LUNCHMEAT you are GOD!!!  
IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL:  SCHOOL YEAR AT CASTLE  Happy break and St. Patrick's  Love (and other full contact sports),  to Wear Tutus While Playing  
Matt x1650  POINT!!! CALL DOUG AT X2051  Day to All; Love, Amy  Paul.  Basketball. And we don't mind  Herbie, How will I last this week  
Copy Center  guarding with affection.  w/out you?? you are evil!!  


(• 
~ Friday, March 8, 1991
) 
\, 
'} 
NBA STANDINGS 
\ 
I EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division
\ 
~ 
w L Pet GB Boston 44 16 .733 Philadelphia 33 26 .559 10 112 New York 28 32 .467 16
l 
Washington 22 37 .373 21 112
) 
Miami 19 40 .322 24 112\ New Jersey 19 41 .317 25 
Central Division
~ 
Chicago 42 15 .737
\ Detroit 38 23 .623 6 Milwaukee 37 24 .607 7 Atlanta 34 26 .567 9112 
'\ 
Indiana 29 31 .483 14 112 Cleveland 21 37 .362 21 112 Charlotte 17 42 .288 26 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Mid-st Division 
'I 
\ w L Pet GB Utah 40 18 .690
\ 
San Antonio 38 19 .667 1 112
I 
~-
Houston 35 24 .593 5 112 \ Dallas 22 37 .373 18 112 Orlando 20 39 .339 20 112 Minnesota 19 39 .328 21 Denver 16 42 .276 24 
) 
i Pacific Division \ Portland 45 14 .763 LA Lakers 42 18 .700 3 112
1 
Phoenix 40 19 .678 5 Golden State 30 28 .517 14 112 Seattle 30 29 .508 15
~ 
LA Clippers 20 39 .339 25
I 
Sacramento 16 41 .281 28 
' \ i 
Wednesday's Games Boston 126, Miami 117 New York 102. Detroit 99
\ 
Orlando 89, LA Clippers 86 ! Utah 1 04, Washington 93
l Philadelphia 97, Dallas 92 
Thursday's Games 
Late Game Not Included Phoenix 106, Atlanta 104 Indiana 145, Denver 125 Seattle 91, Minnesota 86 Houston 122, Dallas 90 Milwaukee 99, LA Lakers 94 San Antonio 111, New Jersey 99 Cleveland at Golden State, (n) 
GOLF RESULTS
I 
l CORAL SPRINGS, Fla. (AP)-Scores and ) relation to par Thursday after the first round of the $1 million Honda Classic, played on the 7,037­
\ 
yard, par-36-36-72 Tournament Players Club at
\ Eagle Trace: Dan Halldorson 36-31-67 -5 Ray Floyd 33-34-67 -5 Jodie Mudd 33-34-67 -5 Joe Lloyd 33-34-67 -5 Brad Faxon 35-33-68 -4 Kenny Perry 34-34-68 -4 D.A. Weibring 34-34-68 Curtis Strange 31-37-68 ~/ Robert Thompson 33-35-68 -4 Billy Andrade 35-33-68 -4 Paul Azinger 36-32-68 -4 John Daly 34-34-68 -4 Jerry Haas 35-33-68 -4 Bob Wolcott 34-35-69 -3 John Huston 34-35-69 -3 Steve Pate 34-35-69 -3 Mike Springer 35-34-69 -3 Bart Bryant 34-35-69 -3 Emlyn Aubrey 35-34-69 -3 Blaine McCallister 34-35-69 -3 Greg Norman 34-35-69 -3 Mike Sullivan 37-32-69 -3 Jim Thorpe 35-35-70 -2 Roger Maltbie 36-34-70 -2 Ed Fiori 35-35-70 -2 Andy Bean 36-34-70 -2 Kenny Knox 36-34-70 -2 Mark Brooks 33-37-70 -2 Bob Lohr 36-34-70 -2 Marco Dawson 33-37-70 -2 Buddy Gardner 35-35-70 -2 Keith Clearwater 35-35-70 -2 Brad Bryant 34-36-70 -2 

ROFFLER SORBIE 
NHL STANDINGS · 
WALES  CONFERENCE  
Patrick  Division  
L10  Streak  Home  Away  Conf  w  L  T  Pts  GF  GA  
6-4  Won2  28-5  16-11  26-11  NY Rangers  34  23  12  80  261  216  
8-2  Won 1  21-8  12-18  22-12  Pittsburgh  34  30  4  72  288  260  
7-3  Won 1  13-18  15-14  18-19  Philadelphia  31  28  9  71  225  215  
1-9  Lost 7  15-12  7-25  14-22  New Jersey  28  29  12  68  240  228  
5-5  Lost 1  13-18  6-22  10-28  Washington  29  32  6  64  214  231  
3-7  Lost 4  14-16  5-25  12-23  NY Islanders  22  38  9  53  194  252  
Adams  Division  
9-1  Won 1  26-3  16-12  27-8  x-Boston  38  22  9  85  258  234  
3-7  Lost1  24-7  14-16  25-13  x-Montreal  35  26  8  78  238  213  
6-4  Won 1  26-5  11-19  24-15  x-Buffalo  25  25  17  67  236  229  
7-3  Lost1  24-7  10-19  18-19  x-Hartford  28  31  9  65  204  230  
7-3  Won2  22-9  7-22  19-19  Quebec  13  43  12  38  194  306  
5-5  Won 1  14-16  7-21  13-23  
2-8  Lost4  12-17  5-25  10-26  CAMPBELL  CONFERENCE  

Norris Division w L T Pts GF GA 
x-St. Louis 40 18 10 90 273 216 L10 Streak Home Away· Conf x-Chicago 40 22 6 86 232 178 8-2 Won5 25-4 15-14 27-10 Detroit 30 32 8 68 243 259 5-5 Won3 23-6 15-13 24-12 Minnesota 22 33 13 57 212 228 8-2 Won3 22-8 13-16 21-17 Toronto 19 41 9 4'7 210 285 2-8 Lost2 14-15 8-22 12-23 5•5 Won 1 15-15 5-24 16-25 Smythe Division 3-7 Lost1 14-16 5-23 14-29 x-Los Angeles 39 21 8 86 289 215 2-8 Lost2 13-16 3-26 8-28 x-Calgary 38 22 7 83 285 213 
Edmonton 31 32 5 6 7 229 229 
Winnipeg 23 36 11 57 234 253 5-5 Won 1 28-3 17-11 27-10 Vancouver 24 39 8 56 211 280 5-5 Lost3 23-6 19-12 27-11 x-clinched playoff berth 
Saturday's8-2 Won4 22-5 18-14 24-13 Wednesday's Games 3-7 Lost2 19-9 11-19 18-21 New Jersey 3, Buffalo 3, tie 7-3 Won 1 19-9 11-20 16-17 Montreal 5, Chicago 3 4-6 Lost3 15-12 5-27 16-21 Minnesota 5, Edmonton 1 1-9 Won 1 15-12 1-29 11-24 

Thursday's Games 

Friday's Games Late Game Not Included Atlanta at Miami, 7:30p.m. St. Louis 5, Boston 5, tie Denver at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Detroit 2. N.Y. Islanders 0 Sunday's 
Phoenix at Washington. 8 p.m. Pittsburgh 3, Los Angeles 2 Utah at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. Quebec 4, N.Y. Rangers 2 Boston at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Vancouver 3, Toronto 3, tie Cleveland at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Philadelphia at Calgary, (n) 
Saturday's Games Friday's GamesDetroit at Indiana, 7:30p.m. 
Chicago at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. 
LA Lakers at Washington, 7:30p.m. 
Washington at Winnipeg, 8:35p.m. 
Charlotte at Milwaukee, 8 p.m. 
Philadelphia at Edmonton,_ 9:35p.m.
Utah at New York, 8:30p.m. Philadelphia at Houston. 8:30p.m. 
Seattle at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS 
Sunday's Games How the Associated Press' Top 25 teams fared Chicago at Atlanta, noon 
ThursdaY:

Phoenix at Minnesota, 3:30p.m. 
1. UNLV (27-0) did not play. Next: at Long BeachNew Jersey at Miami, 4 p.m. 
State, Friday. 

Dallas at Denver, 4 p.m. 
2. 
Ohio State (25-2) did not play. Next: at Iowa, Sunday. 

3. 
Indiana (26-4) beat Minnesota 75-59. Next: at Illinois, Sunday. 


Billy Ray Brown 34-36-70 -2 
4. Syracuse (26-4) did not play. Next: vs. Dave Barr 36-34-70 -2 
Villanova, Friday in the Big East tournament. Curt Byrum 35-35-70 
-2 5. Arkansas (28-3) did not play. Next: vs. Texas Gary Hallberg 37-33-70 -2 
Tech-Texas A&M winner, Friday in the Southwest Dan Forsman 36-34-70 -2 
Conference tournament. 

Andrew Magee 35-35-70 -2 
6. Duke (25-6) did not play. Next: vs. North 
Carl Cooper 36-34-70 -2 
Carolina State or Georgia Tech at Charlotte, N.C.,Bob Estes 36-35-71 -1 
Saturday.Fuzzy Zoeller 37-34-71 
-t 7. North Carolina (22-5) did not play. Next: vs. Ted Schulz 36-35-71 -1 
Clemson, Friday in the Atlantic Coast Conference Mike Hulbert 38-33-71 -1 
tournament. 

Steve Elkington 35-36-71 -1 
8. Utah (26-2) vs. San Diego St. Next: ??? FridayGreg Bruckner 34-37-71 
-1 in the Western Athletic Conference tournament. Fred Funk 33-38-71 -1 9. Arizona (25-6) beat Oregon State 82-67. Next: David Canipe 35-36-71 -1 
vs. Oregon, Saturday. Kirk Triplett 36-35-71 -1 
10. 
Kentucky (22-6) did not play.Fred Couples 34-37-71 -1 

11. 
New Mexico State (23-4) did not play. Next: Scott Gump 37-34-71 -1 


vs. Fresno State, Friday in the Big West Lee Janzen 35-37-72 
E Conference tournament. Gary McCord 38-34-72 E 
12. Kansas (21-6) did not play. Next: vs. Bernhard Langer 34-38-72 E 
Colorado, Friday in the Big Eight Conference John Inman 35-37-72 E 
tournament. 

Russ Cochran 
36-36-72 E 13. Nebraska (24-6) did not play. Next: vs. Tim Simpson 36-36-72 
E Oklahoma, Friday in the Big Eight Conference Mike Donald 36-36-72 E 
tournament. Joey Sindelar 37-35-72 E Ken Schall 36-36-72 E Yvan Beauchemin 37-35-72 E Dicky Thompson 35-37-72 E Jim McGovern 34-38-72 E Brad Fabel 34-38-72 E Mike Smith 35-37-72 E Jim Booras 35-37-72 E 
$$$ 
Neal Lancaster 37-35-72 E 
Bill Glasson  35-37-72  E  
Bruce Lietzke  36-36-72  E  
Mark McCumber  37-35-72  E  
John Wilson  35-37-72  E  

PHONE (219) 233-4957 
PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
ROCCO'S STYL£ SHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR 
TRANSACTIONS 

BASEBALL  
Amerlcal\  League  
Home  Away  DIY  KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terms with  
20-9-6  14-14-6  13-9-5  Brian McRae and Harvey Pulliam, outfielders, on  
23-11-1  11-19-3  15-12-1  one-year contracts.  
17-12-6  14-16-3  11-13-6  OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Agreed to terms with  
19-9-7  9-20-5  11-14-5  Lance Blankenship, infielder, on a one-year  
17-11-4  12-21-2  16-12-3  contract.  
13-16-6  9-22-3  10-16-4  National  League  
MONTREAL EXPOS-Agreed to terms with Tim  
Wallach, third baseman. on a two-year contract  
22-8-4  16-14-5  15-8-3  extension through 1994.  
19-11-3  16-15-5  12-10-4  
11-11-11  14-14-6  9-10-7  BASKETBALL  
16-14-4  12-17-5  9-11-5  National  Basketball  Association  
7-19-8  6-24-4  6-12-7  DENVER NUGGETS-Signed Jim Farmer, guard,  
to a 1 D-day contract.  
World  Basketball  League  
FLORIDA JADES-Acquired the rights to Tracy  
Home  Away  DIY  Moore, forward, from the Youngstown Pride.  
21-6-6  19-12-4  15-8-2  
23-8-3  17-14-3  15-7-3  FOOTBALL  
25-12-0  5-20-8  12-12-3  National  Football  League  
14-14-6  8-19-7  7-13-4  BUFFALO BILLS-Announced the retirement of  
13-21-3  6-20-6  7-16-2  Robb Riddick, running back.  
PITISBURGH STEELERS-Signed Ryan  
Bethea, wide receiver.  
22-8-4  17-13-4  15-7-4  Canadian  Football  League  
23-7-2  15-15-5  13-7-3  OTIAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed Reggie  
18-12-3  13-20-2  11-12-2  Barnes, running back, to a two-year contract  
15-16-5  8-20-6  8-11-6  extension.  
15-15-4  9-24-4  8-18-1  World  League of America  Football  
SACRAMENTO SURGE-Waived Anthony Bruno  
Games  and Tim Adams, defensive ends; Kevin Brown  
Toronto at Boston, 1:3~ p.m.  punter; Mike Roberts and Richard Calvin, runn.ing  
Detro1t at Minnesota, 2.35 p.m.  backs; Mitch Dillard and Shane Strain, tight ends;  

NY Rangers at N.Y. Islanders, 5:05p.m. Mike Dwyer, nose tackle; Ed Rubbert, Alfred 
Pittsburgh at Hartford, 7:35p.m. Los Angeles at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. Vancouver at Montreal, 8:05p.m. Calgary at St. LOUIS, 8:35 p.m. 
Games Pittsburgh at N.Y. Islanders, 5:05p.m. Vancouver at Buffalo, 7:05 p.m. Quebec at Hartford, 7:05 p.m. Los Angeles at Montreal, 7:05p.m. Detroit at St. Louis, 7:05p.m. Washington at Edmonton, 8:05 p.m. Calgary at Minnesota, 8:05p.m. New Jersey at Winnipeg, 8:05p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Chicago, 8:35p.m. 
14. 
Oklahoma State (21-6) did not play. Next: vs. Kansas State, Friday in the Big Eight Conference tournament. 

15. East Tennessee State (28-4) did not play. 

16. 
LSU (20-8) did not play. Next: vs. Auburn, Friday · in the Southeastern Conference tournament. 

17. 
UCLA (21-8) vs. Washington State. Next: vs. Washington, Sunday. 

18. 
Mississippi State (20-7) did not play. Next: vs. Mississippi-Tennessee winner, Friday in the 


Southeastern Conference tournament.  
19. Princeton (23-2) did  not  play.  Next:  vs.  
Loyola Marymount, Sunday.  
20. St.  John's (20-7) did  not play.  Next:  vs.  

Providence. Friday in the Big East Conference tournament. 
21. 
Seton Hall (19-8) did not play. Next: vs. Pittsburgh, Friday in the Big East Conference tournament. 

22. 
Southern Mississippi (21-7) lost to Louisville 83-76. 

23. 
Texas (20-7) did not play. Next: vs. Baylor, Friday in the Southwest Conference tournament. 

24. 
Alabama (18-9) did not play. Next: vs. Florida, Friday in the Southeastern Conference tournament. 

25. 
DePaul (19-8) did not play. Next: vs. Notre Dame, Saturday. 







MONEY 
for 

Jenkins, and Todd Ellis, quarterbacks; Man Frantz, 
kicker; Merv Mosley and Mike Hall, cornerbacks; 
Tony Missick, safety; Calvin Muhammad, AI Owens 
and Warren Parker, wide receivers; Doug Robb, 
center; Craig Schneider, guard, and Eric Snelson, 
linebacker. 

COLLEGE ALLEGHENY-Named Mike Fertazzo sports information director. ARKANSAS STATE-Named Roger Carr assistant football coach. GEORGIA SOUTHERN-Announced the resignation of Milton Gore, running backs coach. 
HUNTER-Named Ralph Moroni softball coach, Kevin Boyle assistant baseball coach and Jospeh Hughes facilities manager. 
NAVY-Named Dick Biddle defensive coordinator and Tim McGuire defensive assistant coach. NORTH CAROLINA-Named Chad Ashton men's assistant soccer coach. OLD DOMINION-Fired Tom Young, men's basketball coach. 
SAN FRANCISCO--Named Erik Visser assistant athletic director for compliance and academic services and Jean Paul Verhees women's soccer coach. 
QUEENS-Announced the resignation of Don Lizak, men's basketball coach. 
WE"D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
'Ill(· \\','1"~ "'<· hn· ~­
$$$ 



We'd like to give you a break with our Special Spring Break Loan! 
• Only 11.99% APR, Fixed 
• $500 Maximum 
• Del d p You'll have all summer 
erre ayments: to repay (until Aug. 1, 1991) 
• Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 
~ NOTREDAME ~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
239-6611 
Separate from the Universit 






Celebrate Notre Dame Basketball Victories with Domino's Pizza "Game ofthe Week" Savings. Everytime Notre Dame wins you can get 112 offyour order at Domino's Pizza.
.. 

Employment Opportunities Available. 
PARTY SPECIAL : TWO TOPPER SPECIAL: GAME OF THE WEEK
SPECIAL 

I Get four Large Cheese pizzas $ 99 Get an Original Medium pizza $ I Get 112 off the regular price of ~~ ' 
your pizza order when Notre Dame

I for $17.99. Only $1.80 per with your two favorite toppings 
wins this weeks' OO.skethill game'

I person. Serves lO hungry 
for just $6.99. Get the second 
Offer valid with your game ticket stub
I people. Additional toppings for only $3.00 more. 
or this coupon. Not valid with any e

1 2
I available at extra charge. 
other offer. Valid gan~e. ~F F' 

I .
II 
I : . 
II 


Valid at pa~·· · stores only. Not valid with any <llher offers. Cuslcmer pays sales tax 1 · · stores~-Not valid With il!'Y other olfars. Customer P4r.i sales w 1 va:~~tMeSlores onlY. Nol valid with any other olf81S. Cuslcmer pays sales tax 1
Valid at~-· 
where applrcable. · areas lim~ed to ensure sate aiving. I»drivers carry less 1han $20.00. where applicilble. · a~ lirriited to enstJre saf8 drivina. o..r aiYels carry !iss than $20.00. where . · areas li1liled to ensure _safe drivina. Our drivels carry l8ss tl1an S20 00 drN8fS aie not penalized for tate CI8Mries. I drivefs n not penalized for Iaili deliveries. rdrivtiS n not penalized tor Iaili deliveries.
L _____________Expirrs~l~ __ .L _____________Expirrs3131/91 __ .J. _____________ Expi~~9!.._ _ _j 
Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 289-0033
tsJsSouthBendAve. 816 Portage Ave. 

~­

--.-~------------------------------------­
• , ' •'-·l"' , 
page 16 ~rlday, Mardi 8,'1991
The Observer 


\ 
\ \ 
'\ 
( 
~ 
_:i 
'· \ 
\ 
X 
\ 
:. ) 
' ' 
'<
; 
. l I 

'•. I, 

I ~ 


Suns halt Hawks' homecourt streak 
ATLANTA {AP) -Phoenix ended Atlanta's club-record 22­game winning streak at the Omni as Tom Chambers' 19-foot last-second jumper Thursday night gave the Suns a 106-104 victory. 
Chambers scored 15 of his 26 points in the final period as the Suns won their fourth straight. 
The Hawks' Dominique Wilkins made two free throws with 17 seconds remaining to tie the score before Chambers' game-winner. 
Wilkins led all scorers with 27 points and grabbed 15 re­bounds. 
SuperSonics 91 I 
Timberwolves 86 
MINNEAPOLIS Eddie Johnson scored 10 of his 18 points in a 4:40 stretch of the second quarter, and the surging Seattle SuperSonics withstood a late rally. 
The victory was the sixth in · seven games for the Supersonics, who got 25 points from Ricky Pierce. Minnesota lost for the sixth time in eight games. 
Benoit Benjamin added 18 points for Seattle, which trailed only once, early in the game. 
Pacers 145, Nuggets 125 
INDIANAPOLIS Vern Fleming scored a career-high 31 points and Rik Smits also had 31, a season high, as the Pacers scored their most points in nine years. 
The Pacers, whose previous season high was in a 137-114 victory over Charlotte on Dec. 20, hadn't scored that many points since a 155-150 overtime loss at Denver on Dec. 28, 1982. 
Reggie Miller scored 33 points for the Pacers, while Orlando Woolridge and Marcus Liberty scored 18 points each for the Nuggets. 
Rockets 122, 
Mavericks 90 
HOUSTON -Otis Thorpe scored 24 points and Houston took control with a 21-8 run at the start of the third quarter. 
Houston, which held an op­ponent under 100 points for the fifth time in six games, won its third straight game and for the 12th time in its last 15. Thorpe scored 17 points in the first half when the Rockets started to gain control. 
Kenny Smith scored 19 for the Rockets, while Rodney McCray scored 18 for the Mavericks. 
Bucks 991 Lakers 94 
MILWAUKEE -Jeff Grayer scored nine of his career-high 23 points in the fourth quarter as Milwaukee sent the Lakers to their third consecutive loss. 
James Worthy scored 14 of his 26 points in the fourth quarter and made two free throws with 1:34 left to close the Lakers to 95-94. 
But Danny Schayes made a layup with 22.1 seconds left after Magic Johnson turned the ball over to give the Bucks a 97­94lead. 
Spurs 111 I Nets 99 

SAN ANTONIO --Terry Cummings scored 25 points and David Robinson grabbed 20 re­bounds for the Spurs, which beat the Nets at home for the 11th consecutive time. 
San Antonio outrebounded the Nets 78-38, including 20-8 in team rebounds. · 
Hull scores 75th as St. Louis ties Boston 
Blues 5, Bruins 5 
BOSTON (AP) -Brett Hull scored three goals, giving him 75 for the season, but Nevin Markwart's second goal of the season with 5:56 left in the third period gave the Boston Bruins a 5-5 tie with the St. Louis Blues. 
Hull got the ninth hat trick of his career, fourth of the season and second in 13 days against the Bruins. He put St. Louis ahead 5-4 with 9:26 remaining in the third period when he snapped in a 20-footer from the left side after a pass from Paul Cavallini. 
But Markwart tied the game with 5:56 left in the period. He took Jeff Lazaro's backhand pass from behind the net and beat goalie Vincent Riendeau from the front edge of the crease. 
Penguins 31 Kings 2 
PITTSBURGH Kevin Stevens' second goal early in the third period broke a tie and helped the Pittsburgh Penguins end Los Angeles' eight-game unbeaten streak with a 3-2 win. 
The Penguins won their 11th consecutive home game and 


Fencing 
continued from page 20 
successful so far so we plan to go back out and do the same thing," DeCicco said. "Notre Dame will come out on top." 
However, DeCicco is con­cerned with the condition of some of his top fencers. 
"Some of the kids are pretty banged up because they have been competing so intensely," said DeCicco. "They have al­ready qualified for the NCAA tournament so I will probably keep them out of the competi­tion as to not risk any injuries." 
Included among the fencers that may not compete are Heidi Piper, Lynn Kadri, Jeff Piper and Noel Young. Despite the losses, DeCicco is still confident about the team's success. 
"I feel as though the fencers are fencing at a peak level. Hopefully we will be able to maintain this level until the NCMs in three weeks." 
halted the Kings' 7-0-1 streak. 
Wayne Gretzky had a goal 
and his 1OOth assist and Mario 
Lemieux had two assists in the 
second game between the two 
in the last 10 days. The Kings 
won 8 -2 in Los Angeles on Feb. 
26. 
Maple Leafs 3, Canucks 3 
TORONTO -Defenseman 
Dave Ellett made amends for an 
earlier mistake when he scored 
a power-play goal in the third 
period to lift Toronto into a 3-3 
tie with the Vancouver Canucks. 
The game was tied 1-1 late in 
the first period when Ellett was 
stripped of the puck by Steve 
Bozek for a breakaway from the 
Canucks' blue line. Bozek beat ·goalie Peter Ing at 17:58. 
But Ellett made up for his 
error with his 12th goal. His 
slap shot from the point beat 
Troy Gamble on the short side 
at 1:12 while the Canucks 
played a man short with Dave 
Capuano off for holding. · 
Nordiques 4, Rangers 2 QUEBEC -Joe Sakic had two third-period goals as Quebec 
the Nordiques' first win in 38 games this season in which they trailed at the start of the final period. 
Quebec, last in the NHL with 38 points, was 0-34-3 when trailing after two periods before rallying to end the Patrick Division leaders' five-game unbeaten streak. 
Trailing 2-1, the Nordiques scored three straight goals, inculding Sakic's 37th and 38th, to pull it out. 
Flames 4, Flyers 2 

CALGARY, Alberta -Theoren Fleury scored twice as the Calgary Flames extended their home-ice unbeaten streak to •16 with a 4-2 victory over the Philadelphia Flyers. 
Joe Nieuwendyk and Sergei Makarov also scored for the 
Flames, who are 15-0-1 at the Saddledome in the last 16 
g;rr;.~sFlames moved within one 
point of Smythe Division-leading Los Angeles, which lost 
3-2 at Pittsburgh. Murray Craven and Chris Jensen scored for Philadelphia, which fell to third place in the Patrick, a point behind Pittsburgh. 

4IUt U4d ~· 

-LESSONS 241 DIXIE WAY N-US 33 (OLD 31) one mile north of ) ( 
St. Mary·s College Roseland 

beat the New York Rangers 4-2. 
GUITARS _ AMPS 
CRATE-ALVAREZ-YAMAHA WESTONE-TAYLOR 
MON-FR1.12:00NOON-6pmCALLforSAT. hours 
_
272 751 0 
DICK WISNER • OWNER 
SPORTS SHORTS 

Dorsett to be dgpicted in TV car:toon 

IIDALIAS -Former Dallas Cowboy Tony Dorsett ran defenders ragged in the NFL, and he'll soon do the same to villains on the fictitious planet Sylon. 
"He won't be able to pick up 12 cars or move a building or anything, but everyone on the planet will marvel at his athletic ability," Milton Kahn said of a planned syndicated television cartoon show called "T.D. Tony." 
Kahn, a spokesman for the Solvang, Calif.-based Alice Entertainment Inc., said the company also is branching intM th~. publishing business with a comic book on Dorsett. 

Prospect would rather pitch to Canseco 

•FORT MYERS. Fla. -. Talk about strange. Denny Neagle is one rookie pitcher who wants to face Jose Canseco. And that's the way he'll. treat his first opponent with the Minnesota Twins, Edison Community College of Fort Myers. 
"like a lot of guys here might tell you, if you say it's only a junior college team and go through the motions, the next thing you know you'll be two runs down and have the bases loaded with one out," the 22-year-old left-bander said. "To avoid a situation like that ... every time rm in there I act like I'm facing Jose Canseco. It makes me bear down more. 
Last year. Neagle went 8-0 with a 1.43 ERA at Visalia of the California League and 12-3 at Class AA Orlando to become just the third minor league player since 1980 to win 20 games in a season. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Navy, 
Air Force, and Army ROTC will sponsor a 5K run on March 24 at Stepan Center at noon. The entry fee is $3.00, and all proceeds will benefit servicemen in the Gulf. 

•Men's 
Volleyball-If you haven't seen the Notre Dame men's volleyball team yet this year, now is your chance! The Irish play tonight vs. Cincinnati at 7:30p.m. in the Joyce ACC pit. Admission is free, so if you can't make it out of South Bend until Saturday, come and enjoy some great volleyball! 

•The 
Irish Heartlites fun runs are coming up April 11th. There will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Students and staff should start training now. 

•The 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club would like to congratulate the following students who received their next rank: 8th gup-Todd Blessinger, James Gruver, Jorge Hinojosa, Tim Ho, Heather Hogan, Pam King, Andrew Kris, Julie Vaccarella, Denise Walters, Pat Wang; 6th gup-Kevin Hubbard, Dan Menge, AI Pisa, Matt Zinno; 4th gup-Vitto Puente. Beginning classes will start the Monday night after break. If you have any questions, contact Lisa Cabral at x4868. 

•Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's sailing team: We will be starting mandatory practices Monday, March 18, for all members who would like to participate in the Freshman Ice Breakers. Practices will be held every day at 2:30 p.m., rain or shine. For more information, call Julie Garden at 284-5197. 







f ·------­

J o· I I 0
' 
• 





JWiie n0
I 'W~


s o· 
{ 


Fisberotan'sPlatter 
Shrimp, stuffed crab, fish fillet and clams. Served with rice or potat0. 

( 
StartingAt •24-PimShrimpDinner 
( 
Lightly breaded fried shrimp.
• 

•
Served with rice or potato. 
' 
C'\.t 
-.;' . -~


~/~.'\. 
."-:~ ;/. ~ 
Every dinner includes 

Shoney's Soup, ' 

SHONEY~ ' 
~llley·_, wr._·komt.~:-. 1tk·
• Seafood Festival 
® 
Anlt."nc•'n Fxpre'-'· C.mJ 

•
I \ ........._.,......_.________,.,._-____,_
J
-




Friday, March 8 ' 1991 
. The Observer page 17 
Irish hockeyt~a~toexplore~laska~~~~~~~~~~~ 
By RICH KURZ Sports Writer 
If you're complaining about 
the temperature in South Bend, 
you probably won't get much 
sympathy from the men on the 
Notre Dame hockey team. 
The Irish (15-14-2) are in ~nchorage, Alas., to take part 10 the Jeep/Eagle Independent Tournament. Notre Dame will be joined by Alaska-Anchorage Alaska-Fairbanks, and Alabama-Huntsville in the two­round tournament. 
The first-round games will take place tonight, while the championship and consolation games will be held Saturday. 
Tour~ament organizers hope that this event will assist the NCAA Tournament Selection Committee decide on the at­large bid extended to one inde­pendent team. 
"T~is is something we've been workmg on for some time with the othe.r independent hockey schools m hopes of solidifying the Independents' berth in the NCAA championship," said Ron Petro, the organizer of the tournament and the athletic di­rector at Alaska-Anchorage. 

Chris Tschupp 
Before the series against Air Force at home two weeks ago, Notre Dame stood a reasonably g?od chance of getting the in­VIte. However, after losing once and tying the Falcons in the second game, Irish hopes have been dimmed somewhat. 
Notre Dame has faced both Alaska-Fairbanks and Alabama-Huntsville twice this season, with varying degrees of success. 
Against the Nanooks of Alaska-Fairbanks, where Irish coach Ric Schafer coached be­fore accepting the position at Notre Dame, the Irish dropped 
a pair of close games, 4-3 and 
2-0. Sterling Black, Mike Curry 
and Lou Zadra all scored for 
the Irish in a losing effort. The 
game on Saturday marked the 
only time all year that Notre 
Dame was shut out. 
Over Thanksgiving Break the Irish hosted the Chargers of Alabama-Huntsville, earning two hard-earned wins, 8-7 (OT) ~nd 3-2. Mike Curry knotted the first game at 7-goals apiece then Chris Tschupp scored th~ game-winner 2:08 into over­time. In the second game, Notre Dame led from wire to wire, but had to endure a strong CHarger rally to escape with the win. 
If the Irish can beat both Fairbanks and Anchorage those dim hopes of an NCAA Tournament berth will be brightened some, since Notre Dame would have beaten all of the major independents. 
In any event, the Irish have quite a bit to look forward to next year. With only two players graduating, Notre Dame will !ook to get on a solid roll going mto next season. Winning the Jeep/Eagle Tournament would be a good step in the right direction. 


Controversial card 
~r~~n :~esins~i bhold~ up the $1,200 baseball card which he bought for $12. The card is the subject of mar~ 1 awt~UI T roudg t upon the youngster by the store at which he bought the card. Bryan caused comma 1on ues ay when he announced that he had traded the card tor two others. 


WSND£mss.9 

Taking applications for 1991-92 Executive staff 
-Traffic & Continuity -Chief Announcer -Business Manager 
-News Director -Nocturne Director -Chief Engineer -Program Director 
Have resume of relevant experience turned in by March 20 to Student Activities .. Any questions call: Cathy Warrick 283-1321 



TheROCKE 
RAGHIB ISMAIL 

5-10, 175, Junior, Wilkes-Barre, PA Best Effort: 55m dash -6.07; 1991 
'# One of ten finalists for 1990 Sullivan Award. 
-,# Has made himself eligible for NFL draft
. 

~ ~ His tim~ of 6:07 at the Central. Collegiate Conference 1 Champ1onsh1ps ranks him first in the NCAA in the ~ 55m this year 
~That. clocking is the 11th fastest time in NCAA history, .._., makmg Rocket the10th fastest man in collegiate record books. 
,## Owns two ICAAAA indoor championship titles. 
• 
• #Broke Tim Brown's Irish record in his first meet after a ' year off from track. 
. ##Unbeaten in 10 straight championship races. 
Has never been beaten mthe 55-meters in college. 

-
' 

Rocket launch scheduled Cahill will also compete at NCAAs 
BY HUGH MUNDY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team will be represented by a pair of outstanding athletes as the NCAA Indoor Track and Field Championships get un­derway today at the Indianapolis Hoosier Dome. 
Irish team captain Ryan Cahill will compete in the 3,000 meter run while Raghib"Rocket" Ismail looks to keep his undefeated streak alive in the 55-meter dash. 
Both qualified for the presti­gious meet by meeting NCAA standards earlier in the season. 
Cahill, who will be making his initial trip to the event, squeezed into the sixteenth and final 3,000 meter slot with a time of 8:07. 
Ismail, also competing for the first time in NCAAs, qualified with a national-best 6.07 sec­ond victory at the Central Collegiate Championships held in February. 
Despite their inexperience at the national level in track both athletes have challenged for NCAA titles in other sports. 
Cahill represented Notre Dame at the November NCAA Cross Country Championships at which the Irish placed third. 
Although the team's highest­ever finish garnered little public support or student appreciation, Cahill earned valuable experience competing against the country's best runners. 
Ismail. whose sixth-ranked football squad competed for a highly publicized national championship, is accustomed to the heightened level of media attention he will receive as the favorite to capture the sprint title. 
55-meter trials begin today at noon with the Rocket hoping to gain a spot in this evening's semifinal heat. 
Cahill's attempt to advance to Saturday's 3,000 meter final is scheduled for 2 p.m. 


~--~---------------...... 
Friday, March 8, 1991 
page 18 The Observer 

\ 
I 
\ 
I 
! 
\ 

Irish grapplers travel to Iowa for NCAA tourney 
Two wrestlers make return trip to championships, two more debut in prestigious meet 
BY DAVE DIETEMAN comfortable with myself." time jitters any more, which is my goal is just to wrestle my Gowens agreed with Engler Sports Writer The championships should good because the pressure can best. If I wrestle like I did in the about the difficult road which also provide the junior from Del really get to you." championship match at re­lies ahead. 
While many college students City, Okla.. with a second gionals, I think that I should "Each of us going has to focus will spend their spring breaks chance at wrestlers he has Although King is champi­place." on our individual goals and get lounging on beaches, four Notre faced during the season. onship-bound, he had no easy While Gowens and King are ourselves ready," observed Dame undergrads have other road during the season. making their second consecu­Gowens. "It's up to us as indi­plans. 'Tve wrestled lots of guys in "In the middle of the year I tive championship appearances, viduals. We'll do as much as we 
Curt Engler, Marcus Gowens, the top eight of my weight ran into a string of three or four the excursion will be a first for can to pull together and support Steve King and J.J. McGrew are class," remarked Gowens, who really bad matches," said King. junior heavyweight Curt Engler. each other. We're having more travelling to Iowa City, Iowa to was ranked as high as twelfth "The problem was that I needed "It was kind of a pleasant intensified practices and the represent Notre Dame at the this season. "I had some close to score more takedowns and surprise to be able to get the rest of the team is working hard NCAA wrestling championships. matches against them, and in score more points. The coaches chance to go," admitted Engler. to motivate us." 
'Tve been planning on spend­some of those matches I didn't have been helping me to get my "The tournament is really hard McGrew, meanwhile, will be ing my spring break in Iowa," wrestle so well. I'm looking shot down. I'm happy to be and anything can happen. I'm making his maiden voyage to said Gowens, a junior 126-forward to seeing different re­going. This year I want to go excited and looking forward to the championships. pounder who reached the NCAA sults. I want to win the close back and do something. This is it. championships for the second ones I didn't win and wrestle as the time of year to make The 17 7 pound freshman year in a row. well as I could have in the everything pay off, and I've just "My regional tournament was from Cleveland, Okla., has sur­
matches earlier in the year. I got to do it. not very tough. Now that it is so prised coaches and opponents 
"I was expecting to go back, really am looking forward to late in the season, I'm not going alike this season while record­and I wish I had wrestled better wrestling some of those guys "As a team, we set some goals to get in better shape or learn ing numerous upsets, including in the fmals in my region. But I again." for the year, but they didn't all some new moves. I'm just going a decision over the second­am still happy to be going back. work out the way we planned. to put in hard work at practices ranked wrestler in his weight 
"This season has been a lot Sophomore Steve King, who Now it's time to go to the and be sure I'm in the right class. better than the last two. I've wrestles at 190 pounds, is also tournament, and the four of us frame of mind. It's a really long And if all goes according to just been more focused. I've going back to the NCAA tour­have to work as a team to get season, and I wasn't really plan, four Notre Dame been concentrating more on the nament this year. as many points as we can. I've starting early in the year. But wrestlers will return from positive aspects of practice and "It helps a lot to be going for been thinking about this all the anything can happen. If you spring break with something trying not to let setbacks frus­the second time," confessed time. Everybody's goal is to win keep working hard, things will other than a sun tan. trate me as much. I'm just more King. "I don't have the first-the national championship, but turn out right." 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
looked when NCAA tournament time rolled around, Bayliss has scheduled some of the most dominant teams possible in hopes of creating a situation similar to last year's. 
"We know that at the end of the season we'll be in one of two places-either in the NCAA tournament or not in the NCAA tournament," said Bayliss. "We going down there to beat ev­erybody we can." 
The Irish will be playing in their first outdoor matches of the season, which has its ad­vantages and disadvantages. With only two days of practice this week on the outdoor 


Professional Ethics 
courts, serving could plague Notre Dame when playing against southern schools that play their entire season out­

Lecture Series 
doors. On the other hand, the Irish may react with an added bit of enthusiasm at the chance to play outside. 
"You have to make a of ad­justments playing outdoors," said Bayliss. "The ball just doesn't come to you like it 
Fr. Edward Malloy would in an indoor match. Last year we made those adjust­ments really well and there was 

President

!I 
very little wind, which is unusual for Corpus Christi at 
this time of the year." \ Coming off an 8-1 road win against Ohio State, Notre Dame is expected to enter the tour­nament with only a few1 "Ethical Decisions Facing the 
nagging injuries that should not be too detrimental for the Irish. While the Irish went into the
l University Graduate" 
tournament last year as an un­ranked team, times are chang­
Monday, March 18, 1991
ing, as is the caliber of Notre Dame tennis. 
"It'll be a different situation pressure-wise than last year," said Coleman. "We weren't re­

Lecture to be held in the 
ally effected by playing the top teams last season. This time 

Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 7:00pm 
around we're expected to do well, so that puts a little bit of extra pressure on us." Sponsored by: The Provost Office 
It has been a rugged midsea­
University Academic Code of Honor Com~ittee and 
son for the sophomore at num­
I 
ber two singles, where he Student Academic Council Committee ' sports a 1 7-15 record entering the tournament. Doubles matches. in which he has com­bined with Dave DiLucia for a 16-3 mark, have continued to give Coleman something to build from. "I've had a rough year," said Coleman. "Hopefully going outdoors will help my game." 
\ I 
-..------------------------------~~---­

Friday, March 8, 1991 
The Observer 
page 19 

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Friday 
5:15 p.m. Mass for Peace. Sacred Heart Church. 

LECTURES 
Friday 
4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Motivic Coho­mology and Algebraic Cycles," Mark Levine, professor, Northeastern University. Room 226, Mathematics Build­ing. Sponsored by mathematics department. 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
.. 

Houdini's final undoing 
ACROSS 34 Upset 60 L.S.U. mascot 35 What Noah's 62 Bergere, e.g. 
t Film director 
neighbors

Joshua 63 Mosque feature 
needed

6 Cummerbund 64 Irregular 
36Avail

tO Extensive 65 "He saith 
37 Dross

t4 Headache among the 
38 Mountain lakes trumpets, -­remedy 40Gaelic ...": Job39:2515 Shield border 41 Type of dog or 66 Kern's "Very 16 Division term 
dollar --.Eddie" 
t7 Wooden shoe 42 Vocal solo, 67 Mars carst8 Stratagem 
sometimes 


t9 Like some 
43 Ready for battle 

colleges DOWN 
44 Let out a secret 

20 How a risky 
1 Some N.F.L. 
48 Cheer in

problem is 
defensemen
Castilla

handled 
2 Type of history 
49 Okla. Indian 


23 Letter before 
3 Asian desert 
omega 50 Ring memento 4 Mad way to 
24 Slender finial 58 Italian wine 
run?
region

25 Calm under 
5 Steno's need 
stress 59 Bakery flute 6 Hawthorne's wife ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 A Guthrie 8 Blind part 9Nags to Abel was the first 11 Wild ox of puzzled om 12 Editor's directive 13Fuss 21 Kiang 22 Composition 25 Prehistoric tombs 26 Ship's lowest deck 27 Giraffe's kin 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
/"loNESHY,f"'liSS, Ooi'J'T '{oU KNOul B£mr< iH AN IO '(£ LL "LAST P1£C£ Of" PIZZA" IN A ROOM 
F'Uu OF FROC,S? 

28 Karl Shapiro's 
"The--" 29 It weighs 200 milligrams 
30 Ossuarium 31 Tuptim's land 32 Ruhr valley city 33 Cattails 38Arboreal 
amphibian 39 Lend a hand 40 Prior, to Prior 42 Chesterton's 
"-Survey" 
43 Called off a mission 45 Davidovich of "Blaze" 46 Ululated 47 Summer, in Toulon 50 Singer in black st On the Red 
52 A D-day beach 53 Trademark 54 Toast topper 55 Gael's republic 56 Ancient Greek 
competition 57 Take five &t Legal matter 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (751t each minute). 
BILL WATTERSON 

H/1.! I L.6..~0£0 ON C\t~CE. 1\ S/I.~S. ''p[FAA\JO W[ &..~. I Gt:1 1t) TM<.E Jlo.. C~RP.' CCMP\JT£R SC~M D\'*-R\5 




.. 




S.U.B. Wants YOU to have a super but safe break!!!!!! 
.of 
STUDENT UNION BOAR 

, 





Sports 
page 20 Friday, March 8, 1991 

Men's hoops to close season at 25th-ranked DePaul 
By KEN TYSIAC think they'll be ready to play side shooting for the Blue Associate Sports Editor Saturday night, though. We Demons. Davis scored 25 points have to go in there ready to against the Irish earlier this The final game of the regular play, too." season. Other probable starters season at No. 25 DePaul means Nonetheless, the spark for DePaul are playmaker Joe very little to the Notre Dame seemed to be gone from the Daughrity, forward Melvon men's basketball team. Irish in Monday's 84-54 loss at Foster (7.1 ppg) and center Jeff 
The Irish (12-19) are not go­Missouri. In that game, Notre Stern. ing to be invited to any post­Dame followed up on Saturday's "It's obvious that DePaul is season tournaments, so 65-59 loss at Louisville by going to the NCAA Saturday at 7 p.m. they will shooting just 29 percent from Tournament," Phelps said. wrap up their season at the the field in the first half. "Their great victory over St. Rosemont Horizon. If Notre John's (79-69 last Saturday at Dame coach Digger Phelps "The wear and tear has the Rosemont Horizon), as well seems resigned to the fact that caught up with us," Phelps said. as winning 10 of the last 11 the Irish will end their season "Against Louisville we played should get them in." Saturday; an art auction this well, but not quite well enough weekend featuring a Van Gogh to win. But you could sense that Notre Dame's big gun going original in Chicago might help we were tired against Missouri, into the game looks to be deaden his disappointment. especially with (Daimon) Sweet Daimon Sweet. The junior for­Phelps joked about bidding on and (Elmer) Bennett going 6 for ward is the team's leading the painting this weekend. 24." scorer at 16.3 ppg and set a 
"It's the only bid I'm getting The Blue Demons (20-8), who career-high with 26 points this weekend," Phelps laughed. have won 11 of their last 12, against the Blue Demons earlier 
While a light-hearted attitude will be led by forward David this season. Guard Elmer 
might help him put the frustra­Booth. Booth was averaging Bennett (14.5 ppg) will be 
tion of this once-promising 19.5 ppg and 7.0 rpg going into counted on to provide scoring 
season behind him, Phelps in­Wednesday night's 75-58 win from the perimeter. 
sisted that he and his players over Miami, and who can light Forward Kevin Ellery (11. 3 
are dead serious about the up the scoreboard in the paint ppg) and guard Tim Singleton, 
game against DePaul, a team and on the perimeter. Forward who are scheduled to graduate 
the Irish defeated 80-77 in Stephen Howard (15.3 ppg, 6.4 in the spring, will start their 
overtime at the Joyce ACC on rpg) adds muscle off the bench last game in an Irish uniform 
"Looking at their team, when scorer. Center Keith Tower (7.8 ppg, The ObserveriKevin Weise we played them here I think Guard Terry Davis (10.5 ppg) 7.0 rpg) will round out the Tim Singleton (1 0) and Kevin Ellery (35) will play their last regular­they were flat," Phelps said. "I will provide quickness and out-starting lineup. season game for Notre Dame when the Irish face DePaul in Chicago. 
-... _..._ 
Dayton is first piece of MCC tourney puzzle for women's hoops 
By RENE FERRAN Thursday pulled a stunning 79-question will be the play of the one-on-one moves, remains goal that I set for myself every Sports Writer 76 upset of the Irish in Dayton. two senior stars. Down the humble. She credits McGraw game. I just want to do my job Now, only a week later, Notre stretch this year, both Robinson for much of her success the the best I can." 
No one expected four years Dame returns to the same floor and Davis have picked up their past four years-a three-time Davis has been called the ago how well seniors Karen where it was vanquished hop­game immensely to help carry all-MCC player; 1990 MCC rock on which this team is built, Robinson and Krissi Davis ing for a measure of revenge. the team to its fourth straight Player of the Year and District and some have argued that it is would combine to give the "The revenge factor helps get 20-win season. IV All-American-and looks she, not Robinson, who will be Notre Dame women's basket­you motivated, but once the Robinson (16.2 ppg, 5.0 apg) back at the friends she has the most difficult of this year's ball team such a terrific inside­game starts, if we get down to is the emotional sparkplug of made ~s the most important senior class to replace. outside punch. business and play our game, the team. Her fiery spirit gives aspect of her career at Notre "It's nice that they say things 
But as the Irish (21-6) enter we'll be just fine," Davis said. the team a lift whenever she is Dame. like that, but there are times the Midwestern Collegiate "We need to play pressure de­on the court. "Playing with Sara when I get too intense on the Conference tournament this fense and stop their break. "She can come into a game (Liebscher) and Krissi has been court," Davis said. "What I've weekend with a possible NCAA They killed us last time in tran­and enliven it. She's always the best thing about playing her tried to learn is to control that bid on the line, they will count sition," Robinson said. "We positive, always hustling," these past four years," intensity. If I can channel that on these two players to lead the need to come together as a Davis said. "She inspires me to Robinson said. "It's the friend­intensity, then I like to think way. team and play together." work harder, to push myself to ships I made that I'll remember that I can calm the team when 
"They're the keys to our ball­the limit and then some." when I look back, not the indi­it gets out of synch." 
club," Irish coach Muffet Notre Dame is going for a vidual wins and losses." She also counters the claim 
McGraw said. "Obviously, third straight MCC title, but Even as the Irish sported a that if the team is not invited to 
they're the two players we have impressing the NCAA tourna­more balanced offensive attack, While Robinson holds the this year's NCAA tournament, 
to go to in the clutch. If we go ment selection committee Robinson had the highest limelight, however, Davis (11.3 her senior season would be a 
to the NCAA tournament, it'll enough to earn an at-large scoring average of her career ppg, 6.0 rpg) is content to hide failure in some way. 
be because of them." berth also rides on this week­this season. And when the go­in the shadows. "If we don't make the tour­
end's games. ing got tough, the team leaned "I'm glad I'm not a flashy nament, it will hurt, but if we 
As the top seed in the MCC "I think we have a chance {to on her more, and she re­player," Davis said. "I would do don't, I don't feel that we've tournament, Notre Dame re­make the NCAAs) but we're not sponded by leading Notre Dame anything for the team. If I had failed in any way," Davis said. ceived a bye into the semifinals. in a position to say we deserve in scoring in seven of the past to sit on the bench for us to "The NCAAs would only be ic­Monday night, it learned its a bid," McGraw said. "If we win eight games, averaging 18.4 win, I would. ing on the cake." opponent in today's 3 p.m. big this weekend, we should get points during that stretch. "The one think I've always By Sunday evening, she and semifinal matchup: the Dayton in, but if not, I don't know." Yet this flashy individual, who tried to do is play as hard as I Robinson will know if they get Flyers (16-12), who only last A big factor in deciding the can dazzle a crowd with her can the whole game. It's the top to frost that cake or not. 

Notre Dame squads cross continent to compete in tournaments Fencers duel in 
Men's tennis team hopes to hook Cleveland wins in outdoor Texas competition 
By LYNNE BRAGG 
By DAVE McMAHON . tournament, the Irish, un­Sports Writer Sports Writer ranked before the first round, opened with a 5-1 win againstThe Notre Dame Men's and The Notre Dame men's tennis Oklahoma. The week only got 
Women's fencing teams head to team begins play today at the better for Notre Dame, which 
Cleveland State this Saturday tournament that put Irish ten­proceeded to beat 22nd-ranked for the Great Lakes Cham­
nis on the national map -the Duke 6-3 and seventh-ranked I pionships, their last com­H.E.B. Collegiate Tennis Texas Christian 5-4 before 
I 
,I 
petition before the NCAA tour­Classic. The 24-team tourna­falling to 16th-rankedI nament. ment includes most of the best Pepperdine in the semifinals.
I. 
Coach Mike DiCicco labels
~ teams in the nation, including The Irish have been ranked in 
. ~ this weekends' competition as a every poll since then.
top seeds Texas Christian and 

! 
~ r--. r 
"lame duck" meet. South Carolina. Notre Dame "Last year it was the tourna­"Our fencers have already 
(9-5) gained a first-round bye ment that put us into the NCAA 
( fenced most of the schools that and today will face the winner hunt and got us ranked," said ~ will be competing this of an opening-round match be­coach Bob Bayliss.
weekend. We have been very
s The Observer/John Cluver tween CaL-State Long Beach Because the squad was over­( Chuck Coleman will try to rebound from a current midseason slump and Alabama.
I. ~ 
i I' see FENCING/ page 16 when the Irish travel to Corpus Christi, Tex. Last year at the prestigious seeTENNIS/page 18 
I l 


( 







