


1142·1992 II SQUICI Nil NNI"L 
VOL. XXIV NO. 57 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ~ , ­
Muslim kidnappers release two hostages 
BEIHUT, Lebanon (AP)-Shiite Muslim kidnappers yesterday released two Western hostages, American Thomas Sutherland and Briton Terry Waite, said Fares Bweiz, Lebanon foreign minister. Both were reported on their way to Syria. 
Bweiz confirmed the release without saying where or when the captives were freed. A Cabinet source close to Syria said Waite and Sutherland were being driven to Damascus, Syria's capital. 
The release of Waite and Sutherland represents a dra­matic advance in ending the long ordeal of Western hostages in Lebanon. 
The 52-year-old Waite, who had successfully negotiated the release of other hostages, went to Beirut to try to free Americans but shockingly dropped from sight during his mission and became a captive himself for nearly five years. He was believed to be the last British hostage in Lebanon. 
Sutherland, 60, was the 
hostage held the second-longest -nearly six-and-a-half years. His release leaves three American captives, two Germans and one Italian in the hands of Lebanese kidnappers. 
Since 1984, when Shiite and Druse militiamen chased the Lebanese army from west Beirut, almost 100 foreigners have been abducted in Lebanon. Ten of the captives were either presumed or confirmed killed. A few said they escaped, and others were released. 
The pace of the releases has quickened since August, when the United Nations began working to mediate a broad swap of Western hostages for Arab prisoners and missing Israeli soldiers. 
Six longtime hostages -three Americans and three Britons ­have been freed since August. A Frenchman held for three days was also released in August. 
Bweiz said in a statement broadcast by Beirut radio sta-

Terry Waite 
tions that "the release has taken place and I want to ex­tend my congratulations to the Waite and Sutherland families and urge the families of the rest of the hostages to be patient. Their ordeal is approaching an early end." 
"They have been freed and are on their way to Damascus," said the Cabinet source, who spoke on condition pf anonymity. "I am not at liberty to tell you anything more." 
Traditionally, freed hostages go to Syria before going home. The Iranian-allied kidnap 

ND plans to admit more women 
By FRANK RIVERA Assistant News Editor 
A new admissions policy, which was approved by the Board of Trustees last May and will take effect with next year's freshman class, is intended to increase the total enrollment of women at Notre Dame. 
The plan's purpose, according to Kevin Rooney, director of Admissions, is to increase the number of women admitted to the University In order to match the Increase In the percentage of women applicants. 
"Over the years," said Rooney, "the percentage of women in the applicant pool has kept moving beyond the percentage In the actual entering class." 
According to Rooney, it was recommended that the number of women admitted be in-
AIDS plague 
.


sweep1ng Africa 
JOHANNESBURG. South Africa (AP)-AIDS is sweeping across Africa. imperiling mil­lions of lives on a continent that can do little but helplessly wateh the looming devastation. 
In some Afriean cities, up to one-third of the men and women may be infected with the AIDS virus; up to 10 million children could be orphaned by AIDS by the year 2000; South Africa estimates up to one in three of its 40 million people may be infected by the year 2010. 
"AIDS is winning," said Dr. Kevin de Cock, head of an AIDS program in the Ivory Coast. 
Scientists cite numerous rea­sons for the AIDS plague here, including sexual promiscuity, poor medical services. the sub­servient role of women, war 
see AIDS I page 4 
creased to roughly 42 to 43 percent of the class because the number of women in the appli­cant pool has increased to over 40 percent while the number of women admitted has remained at about 37 percent. 
However, the admissions standards have not changed, said Rooney. 

"I think It is important to know that because we have this new policy," he said, "it will not mean that it will be 'easier' for women to be admitted than it was before." 
Contrary to popular belief, this is not a "gender-blind" admission policy, but rather a ..sighted policy," according to William Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life. 
"The official terminology of the Board of Trustees was that gender would no longer be a significant factor in admission," said Rooney. 
The new admissions policy was not a new idea, according to Rooney. The Board of Trustees was acting on projec­tions given by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions and other offices of the University, he said. 
"Notre Dame went coeduca­tional about 20 years ago," said Rooney. "It has been a continuing evolution of coedu­cation here. So, the Trustees have looked at the question pe­riodically." 
The same criteria as before, such as geography, ethnicity, "special talents" and other qualities, will be taken into ac­count in the admission process, Kirk said. 
According to Rooney, before the new policy, there was no 
see ROONEY I page 7 


~!J~JA~e 



-Q·&·

server 
Saint Ma~'s College 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19 1991 
' 

group, Islamic Jihad, an­nounced yesterday that Waite and Sutherland were being freed, but left the timing of the release unclear. 
Islamic Jihad made its an­nouncement in an Arabic-lan­guage statement issued to a Western news agency in Beirut accompanied by an old photo­graph of Terry Anderson. Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press, has been held the longest of any hostage. He was abducted March 16, 1985. 
Besides Waite and Sutherland, four other longtime Western hostages have been freed since U.N. mediators be­gan their efforts in August. 
Israel and its allied Lebanese militia have released 66 Arab captives, and the Israelis have received firm word on the death· of two missing soldiers and the body of a third. 
Islamic Jihad's announcement came as U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cueller's special hostage negotiator, Giandomenico Picco, was re­portedly in Lebanon for talks with hostage holders. 
Perez de Cueller confirmed at the United Nations today that he has been offered the release of all hostages by Christmas. 
"That is what I have been of­fered by the groups, as well as by the Iranian government, which has always given me very strong support, as well as the Syrian government," the U.N. chief told reporters. 
Waite was special envoy for the Archbishop of Canterbury when he disappeared in Beirut on Jan. 20, 1987, after going to meet with representatives of Islamic Jihad. 
Sutherland, dean of agricul­ture at the American University in Beirut, was kidnapped June 9, 1985, when gunmen attacked his car as he drove in a convoy from Beirut airport. The Scottish-born Sutherland, a naturalized American citizen, lived in Estes Park, Colo. 
Possible hall changes explored in new study 
By MONICA VANT 
News Editor 
The Office for Residence Life has prepared a study to deter­mine the effects of increasing female enrollment at Notre Dame and to recommend changes in the residence hall system to accommodate the in­crease. 
Although recommendations have been made as to which male residence hall or halls will become female housing, no de­cisions have been made at this time, according to William Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life. 
Since no decision has been made, rumors that Pangborn, Alumni or Morrissey Halls will become female donns next year are not true, according to Kirk. 
A decision will most likely be made by the end of the year, Kirk said. If so, females could be placed in one of the current male residence halls as early as the fall or 1992. 
"The sooner we're able to do something the better," Kirk said. The officers need to con­sider that many of the male residents who would be dis­placed by the decision may want to make off-campus living arrangements for the 1992-93 academic year, he added. 
Still, the change in enrollment will take time. "If we do In· crease the number of females on campus, it's going to be phased over a period of four 
see HOUSING I page? 

ND music student wins $7,500 piano scholarship 
By ANNIE VENESKV News Writer 
Carla DeCastro, a Notre Dame senior piano student from Cadillac, Mich., has been chosen as the recipient of a $7,500 Liberace Scholarship. 
Notre Dame received the gift from the Liberace Foundation for the Performing and Creative Arts for a scholarship in the music department. DeCastro was later selected as the recipi­ent of the award. 
DeCastro, who has played the piano since she was 5, performs all classical repertoire that spans from works composed in the Baroque period to works from this century. 
She is currently studying un­der music professor William Cerny and is working on pieces for her spring senior recital. 
"Carla is very talented, dedi­cated and committed to her work," Cerny said. "She has made good progress since I first saw her." 
DeCastro currently rehearses two to three hours per day, in addition to her weekly hour les­son with Cerny. 
She plans to continue her studies in piano performance in graduate school, but she is un­sure of where she will continue playing. Although she does not plan to tour the world as a pro­fessional pianist, Carla does plan to teach piano perfor­mance in the future. 
"I don't think I'll be 'concert­izing' all over the world, but I love teaching and performing," she said. 
The Liberace Foundation, established in 1976, has funded more than 1,200 individual scholarships in the arts and awards grants to 33 schools and colleges nationwide. 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Homosexuality: ND should sponsor forums 

Since GLND/SMC began a campus-wide tour to promote the passage of Safe Haven resolutions, little seems to have been done in terms of intellectual consideration 


of the proposal and its Dave Dleteman 
proponents. 
The lack of reportedincidents of harassment of Sports Editor homosexuals and the key players in the GLND/SMC hierarchy-mainly graduate students and faculty-might lead one to think that this organization is perpetrating a sham. Is GLND/SMC merely a mouthpiece for disgruntled faculty and grad students to vent their frustration with Catholic doctrine and traditions? Or is there a legitimate problem with the harassment of homosexuals at Notre Dame? If there is, Safe Havens are not the way to solve it. DuLac explicitly condemns harassment and the dorm discussions over Safe Havens were poorly framed. In my own dorm (Cavanaugh) the discussion was well-attended. Yet the substance of the forum was largely opinion. The explicitly stated goal was to allow people to be comfortable with the orientations which they discover themselves to have. Yet GLND/SMC co-chair Michael Yore conceded that the second goal to come from acceptance of homosexual orientations was an approval of homosexuality. Yore further conceded that such an approval of homosexuality would be contingent on deciding the facts of the matter-of deciding whether homosexuality was objectively a disorder or a natural orientation and hence a human good. However the Catholic Church holds that a homosexual orientation is, in fact, an objective disorder. In 1985, Gay People at Georgetown University asked for university recognition and was denied, on the grounds (to quote University President Thomas Healy, S.J. in "An Open Letter to the Faculty and Graduates of Georgetown") that "the group presented a homosexual life style as morally acceptable." GPGU sued for recognition and lost, but won their appeal requesting the 'tangible benefits' of recognition (i.e. money, ads and meeting places). Given that the University of Notre Dame, being a Catholic institution, is not likely to sponsor a debate over whether homosexual orientations are objective disorders or not, why not at least invite those people who have influenced and informed Vatican decisions to lecture on campus? Why not have a series of faculty forums-including philosophers, theologians, psychologists, GLND/SMC representatives and administrators-to inform campus opinions? Why not make this national, Catholic research university, the leading Catholic center for discussion of the ethical questions confronting our world? This is not to ask why Notre Dame does not break with its Catholic heritage, but only to ask why such a university cannot take the lead in articulating Catholic doctrine to a generation adrift. 
These views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff:  
Production: Melissa Cusack Cynthia Ehrhardt  Graphics: Brendan Regan Accent:  

Tuesday, November 19, 1991 
FORECAST: Partly cloudy today with a 40 percent chance of thundershowers. Highs in the low 60s and lows in the low 50s. TEMPERATURES: 

City  H  L  
Athens  63  50  
Atlanta  71  55  
Berlin  46  37  
Boston  60  46  
Chicago  59  40  
Dallas·Ft.Worth  67  43  
Denver  44  22  
Detroh  62  42  
Honolulu  86  72  
Houston  76  54  
Indianapolis  64  48  
London  42  28  
Los Angeles  79  54  
Mlani Beach  81  73  
New Orleans  80  61  
New York  33  28  
Paris  33  28  
Philadelphia  66  50  
Rome  54  40  
St. Louis  59  43  
San F ranclsco  64  4 7  
Seanle  54  45  
South Bend  62  45  
Tokyo  56  50  
.-------------------------------------.:::::!  Washington. D.C.  69  54  
Pr96SUT9 ===:.  
IH L ~~m~~ HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-sTORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  
···: .=:·. ·..::.:· ... .·:.::·.:  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Strauss: Soviet aid is worth the risk 
•MOSCOW-U.S. Ambassador Robert Strauss said yesterday the United States should risk the billions of dollars in aid to the Soviet Union to help prevent food riots during the coming winter. He told reporters he had urged the seven richest democracies, whose deputy finance ministers are meeting in Moscow, to find a formula for the Soviet republics to defer repayment of their estimated $81 billion foreign debt. The senior officials from the top industrialized nations-the so-called Group of Seven: the United States, Italy, Britain, France, Canada, Germany and Japan-began talks with Kremlin and republic leaders yesterday on the debt payments and economic cooperation. In the month since the Group of Seven's last meeting in Moscow, food shortages have grown more severe and the ruble has been devalued. To try to fiX the economy, the powerful Russian republic last Saturday took steps to gain control over the money supply, foreign currency and trade in oil, gold and diamonds. Assistance from the Group of Seven is critical to the Soviet Union's chances of weathering the economic crisis and achieving free-market reforms. 
'Grannie murderer' due in court 
•SYDNEY, Australia-A 58-year-old salesman goes on trial Tuesday in the deaths of six elderly women and assault of three others in chilling attacks known as the "Grannie Murders." Police say John Wayne Glover confessed he chose the women because they reminded him of his mother-in-law, who died four weeks before the first slaying. Glover allegedly said his mother-in-law had caused problems in his family, but did not know why it influenced his behavior. At a preliminary court hearing, Glover was quoted as telling police he acted under the influence of a "dark, evil" side of his personality. Police claim Glover used a hammer to knock most of the women 
OF INTEREST 
•censorship will be the lecture topic tonight at the Student Art Forum. Come at 7 p.m. to the Snite Museum to hear John Shields' final lecture. A discussion will fol­low and new members are welcome. 
MARKET UPDATE 
unconscious. Two died of head injuries and the other four were strangled with pantyhose. The slayings occurred between March1989 and March1990. 
NATIONAL 

Cuomo holds off on presidential 
run 
•ALBANY, New York-New York Gov. ,. Mario Cuomo, considering a f presidential campaign, says f_., Republicans guided by the White House •.,. may try to cause him problems at home with the state budget. A GOP official called it paranoia. Democrat Cuomo is trying to sell the Republican-led state Senate on a multi-year budget deal that Cuomo aides say could make it easier for him to run for president. The governor has said he must get a handle on New York's budget problem before deciding about a presidential run. 
Students riot after football game 
•MOUNT 
PLEASANT, Mich.-For the second-straight year, rioting has marred the football rivalry between Central Michigan University and Western Michigan University. A crowd estimated at 3,000 people rampaged through several blocks near the Central Michigan University campus overnight last Saturday, several hours after the CMU Chippewas beat Western Michigan University 27-17. Rioters hurled rocks and other debris at police and torched several vehicles. They also ransacked apartments and assaulted bystanders, police said. The melee was blamed on excessive drinking. Some 80 to 100 police officers from 10 jurisdictions were unable to disperse the crowd until about 3 a.m. that night. Authorities said 33 people were arrested and damage was estimated at $100,000. 

•seniors 
are invited to meet Pat Ryan, a representa­tive from Inner City teaching corps, in the library con­course tomorrow from 10 a.m.-1 p.m. and then at the esc from 2-5 p.m. An information session will also be held at 7 p.m. at the esc. 


ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1863: President Lincoln delivered his Gettysburg Address as he dedicated a national cemetery at the site of the Civil War battlefield in Pennsylvania. 

• 
In 1959: Ford Motor Company announced it was halting production of the "Edsel," a medium-priced car that had proven to be a poor seller. 

• 
In 19n: Egyptian President Anwar Sadat became the first Arab leader to set foot in Israel. 

• 
In 1984: Nearly 500 people died in a lirestorm set off by a series of explosions at a petroleum storage plant on the edge of Mexico City. 


News: Jahnelle Harrigan Julie Barrett Cheryl Moser Paul Pearson Systems: Sports: Mike Murphy Rich Kurz Viewpoint: Scoreboard: Julie Shepherd Mike Scrudato Guy Loranger Lab Tech: Jake Peters 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


-~-----~---------------~,---~-------~ 
Tuesday, November 19, 1991 The Observer page 3 

SMC board plans for holiday events 
By NICOLE MCGRATH will be giving a lecture called News Writer "Opportunities in ... the Public 
Sector." The lecture will be at 
7:30p.m. at Haggar Parlor. 
The proposal for a new pari­A Thanksgiving project is be­etals system has been submit­ing sponsored campus-wide by ted to Saint Mary's President Students Encouraging Religious William Hickey, announced Vocations (SERV). They are Maureen Lowry, president of asking that each club donate Saint Mary's student body, at $20 to YWCA to feed a family of the Board of Governance meet­four. ing last night. For next semester, plans are 
Among topics discussed was underway for an off-campus tonight's forum on the changes forum. The forum would be planned for the Church of geared towards students think­Loretto. All Saint Mary's stu­ing of living off campus next dents are encouraged to come fall. to the Chureh of Loretto at 6:30 A second activities night is 
p.m. "If they do not come and being planned for late January. voice their opinion, then they Suggestions were made to move have no place to gripe," said the activities night from Angela Jennifer Moore, commissioner Athletic Facility to LeMans of Campus Ministry at the lobby. College. 
Volunteers are needed be­The traditional Christmas tree tween 1-4 p.m. today to aid trimming will be held in YWCA with mailings. Regina LeMans lobby on December Hall is sponsoring the project 10th from 12-1 p.m. and transportation is provided. Suggestions were made to have 
Tonight, South Bend City the tree personalized by having Controller, Katie Humphries, the students make ornaments. 
Club Column 
NOVEMIER 19, 1991 

l)The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all presidents of graduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second Aoor of LaFortune. 
2) World Peace Action Group will meet Wednesdays at 7 pm in the CSC Coffeehouse. Everyone is welcome! 
3) Medieval Club will host its second movie night Wednesday, Nov. 20 with "The Princess Bride" in Montgomery lheatre. Shows at 7, 9, 11 p.m. Admission is $2 and tickets go on sale Monday, Nov. 18 at the LaFortune Box Office. 
4)Arts and l..eHers Student Advisory Council will be peer advising from , 2:30-5 p.m. in the College Fellows Office of O'Shaughnessy from November 19-21. 
5) Campus Fellowship will not have a Friday night meeting until December 
6. This weekend is the Fellowship seminar. Tum in a registration slip if you have not done so already. Dinners and morning prayer continue according to the schedule in the last newsletter. 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 pm Thursday each week. All entries appear in the following Monday's edition of lhe Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in 206 LaFortune. 



Now Open 
Little Professor Book Center 
In its New Location 
• Discounted Bestsellers • Special Orders • 
• Telephone Orders • Free Gift Wrapping • 
• Book Mailing Service • Gift Certificates • 
• Bonus Book Club • 
,----------------,
I Exchange this coupon for I 
I I
I 25% OFF I 
I your next purchase at y_pur I 1 Little Professor Book Center 1 I in South Bend I I I 
1 Offer good through November 30,1991 1 
I "Offer not valid on newspapers, magazines, IL __ ~~ ~e~o~i~o~r disc~n~ __ _j 
Ironwood Plaza North (near the new Martin's) Highway 23 at Ironwood South Bend, IN 46637 Telephone: (219) 277-4488 Mon.-Sat.: 10:00.9:00 Sunday: 10:00.5:00 
@ BOOKCENtER 
We help you find books you'II love. 
U.N. team enlists aid of psychic 
WASHINGTON(AP)-A United Nations team is turning to ex­trasensory powers to help it ferret out Saddam Hussein's hidden weapon sites. 
In the satchel she took to Baghdad, Iraq, U.S. Army Maj. Karen Jansen carried sketches of two sites where the Iraqi leader has supposedly stashed biological weapons, said Edward Dames, president of a company called PSI Tech. 
A retired military intelligence major, Dames and an associate drew the sketches through "remote viewing" -the ability to locate and accurately describe unknown things and events from afar. 
Various techniques of psychic or extrasensory viewing, which has supporters in academic cir­cles, has been researched by several military intelligence agencies since the 1950s. But efforts to develop and imple­ment them have generally met with ridicule or skepticism. 
On occasion, they have been used in concert with other intelligence-gathering tools such as satellite photos and electronic signals monitoring, current and former officials say. 
For example, trained and so­called natural psychics were called in during the hunt for 
U.S. Army Brig. Gen. James Dozier, kidnapped by the Red Brigade guerillas in December 1981. He was finally found, however, through electronic in­tercepts and an informant's tip. 
Psychics have proven "surprisingly helpful in intelli­gence-gathering, although they are not relied on as a sole source," said Rep. Norman Dicks, D-Wash., a member of the House Intelligence Committee. 
Jansen is on her third mission to Iraq for a special U.N. commission assigned to find and destroy the country's hid­den sticks of missiles and chemical, biological and nu­clear weapons following the Persian Gulf War. 
Cinema at the Snlte 
TUESDAY 7:00 9:00 

~-----------~---------~---------~-­
~------------------­
The Observer 

page4 Tuesday, November 19, 1991 
Defense budget for 1992 will reflect Cold War's end 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The 1992 defense budget that Congress is about to approve moves the nation further away from a Cold War footing. But, it leaves unanswered some im­portant questions about shap­ing the armed forces for future threats. 
The defense bills -on autho­rizing specific Pentagon pro­grams, the other providing money for them -earmark $291 billion for the fiscal year that started Oct. 1. 
The dollar amount of the budget is only 1 percent less than in 1991, after adjusting for inflation. But the defense legislation keeps the Pentagon on a path that by the middle of the decade will leave military spending -as a share of the overall American economy -at its lowest level since before World War II. 
The defense bills are expected to gain final House and Senate passage this week. No veto is likely, even though the legisla­tion denies President Bush one of his biggest requests, a go­ahead to build more B-2 stealth bombers. 
Congress has grown increas­ingly reluctant to continue the B-2 program in light of the col­lapse of communism in Eastern Europe and the subsequent dis­integration of the Warsaw Pact as a military threat to Western Europe. 
The failure of last August's communist coup made the 8-2's role even more dubious. 
The B-2, the costliest aircraft ever built at about $865 million per plane, was designed in the late 1970s to penetrate Soviet air defenses during a Il!!clear war and hunt down and destroy Soviet land-based nuclear forces. Now the Air Force is touting the plane's potential as a non-nuclear bomber. 
Even though Congress has grown cold on the B-2, the pro­gram is still soaking up a good deal of money. It will get $1.6 billion for continued research and development of the stealth, or radar-evading, technology; $1 billion in the unlikely event that Congress votes next year to buy one additional B-2; and $1.8 billion to keep the B-2 production line "warm" in case the plane is revived. 

November 23, Saturday 7:30 p.m 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey

Step right up 

Senior Yolanda Carroll, left, helps students get tickets in LaFortune for the opening night of "M~cbeth," 
-
being performed by the National Shakepeare Company at Washington Hall. 



AIDS 
continued from page 1 
and famine. Some health workers say Africans aren't being warned about AIDS, others say sexual habits are hard to change. 
Prostitutes, a major source of AIDS, say customers refuse to use condoms as protection. 
"Men," says Mavis, a young prostitute in Zambia, "won't pay for sex if we put that on. So what must I do -die of hunger, anyway?" 
Some blacks in South Africa even see the virus as a plot by whites to preserve apartheid by persuading blacks to use con­doms, thus reducing the preg­nancy rate in the black popula­tion. 
The World Health Organization reports 92,457 AIDS cases in Africa, but esti­mates 7 million Africans have the HIV virus that causes the disease. 
Sixty percent of the world's estimated AIDS cases are in Africa, which has 12 percent of the world's population. 
AIDS in Africa is primarily transmitted heterosexually or from mother to child. As many women are infected as men. In Western nations, AIDS has mainly hit homosexuals and in­travenous drug users, although heterosexual transmission is rising. 
"It is catastrophic. Eighty percent of the women in the world that are seropositive (with the AIDS virus) live in Africa," said Dr. Mark Ottenweller, an AIDS worker in the Ivory Coast. 
Statistics on AIDS in Africa do not reflect the true spread of the disease, health workers say. 
Center for Social Concerns 
T H E W I N E R Y 0 F E. & J. G A L L 0 

We welcome you to the 


-International Banquet. 
Food from 10 different countries. 
Tickets on sale for $5.00 at the LaFortune Information 
Uncork Your Potential 
For graduates with an intense desire to go far, there is a career with far-reaching opportunities. Sales management with the E. & J. Gallo Winery. 
On-campus interviews: 
CORPORATE INFORMATIONAL SFSSION MORRIS INN ALUMNI ROOM NOVEMBER 20, 1991 7:00P.M. 

BIBLICAL STUDIES M.A., PH.D. LITURGICAL STUDIES M.A., PH.D. RELIGION AND SOCIETY M.A., PH.D. THEOLOGICAL AND RELIGIOUS STUDIES M.A., PH.D. 
Excellent library facilities, campus housing. and a nationally respected faculty. All students are issued personal computers and printers. 
For more information, write or call Graduate Admissions. Drew University, Madison. NJ 07940-4000, 201/408-3110 
DREW 

. -~ 
Tuesday, November 19, 1991 
Court agrees to hear property rights case 
WASHINGTON(AP)-The Supreme Court today said it will consider expanding private property rights by hearing an appeal from a South Carolina man who was barred from building homes on his beach­front property. 
The court said it will decide whether property owners must be compensated when states bar all construction on land to protect the public against harm. 
In other action today, the jus­tices: 
• 
Left intact a ruling in a Colorado case that allows em­ployees to sue their bosses over allegedly libelous statements made in disciplinary letters. 

• 
Hejected an appeal by Saudi businessman Adnan Khashoggi, who sought to avoid having to pay a $4.6 million award in a lawsuit brought by a Philippines corporation. 

• 
Hefused to reinstate the Maryland drug conviction of a man who said police violated his rights when they searched luggage he left at a friend's home without a warrant. 


The court is expected to de­cide the property rights issue by July in an appeal by David Lucas, who owns two vacant oceanfront lots on the Isle of Palms in Charleston County, S.C. 
Lucas paid $975,000 for the land in 1986. He wanted to build two homes on the prop­erty, one for himself and one to sell. 
The south Carolina Coastal Council, relying on a 1988 state beachfront protection act, pro­hibited the construction. The law was enacted to limit beach erosion, protect endangered species and safeguard the tourism industry. 
A state judge ordered South Carolina officials to pay Lucas $1.23 million to compensate him for his loss. The judge said barring him from building on the property rendered the land worthless. 
The Fifth Amendment pro­hibits taking private property for public use without just compensation to the owner. 
In February, the South Carolina Supreme Court over­ruled the judge and said Lucas is not entitled to compensation. 
The Observer 
page 5 


The Observer/E.G. Bailey
The power of myth 

Students listen to the discussion titled "Breaking the Myths of Homosexuality" at a meeting last night of the Democratic Socialists of America ND/SMC and Women United for Justice and Peace. 
AMPUS MINIS,.RY... 
Off Campus Kitchens 
Some one told me that there are 1200 students living off-campus 
this year. This includes nearly half of the Notre Dame senior men, 
and a significant number of upperclass women from St. Mary's. 
Historically, most off campus students lived in beat-up old houses 
scattered throughout the Northeast Neighborhood. However, 
recently, since that neighborhood has seemingly had an increased 
problem with security, many of our students have congregated off 
campus in the various apartment complexes like Lafayette Square 
and Castle Point, where things are supposedly safer. 
There are a lot of reasons why people decide to live off campus. Some folks figure that anything that they can learn about life from the Notre Dame/St. Mary's dormitory system in four years, they can surely learn in three. Some people are just tired of all the rules and want "more freedom." They want to decide for themselves when their music is too loud, where they can carry their beer cans, and when their significant others have to go home. 
Some people figure that by having to do their own shopping and pay their own rent bills, they will get a head start on life in "the real ,"and grow up more quickly. Well, perhaps. 
The question today is about the actual "quality of life" found in most typical off campus apartments or houses. 
It seems that one of the great things about living with a smaller group off campus should be that there is plenty of .time for quiet conversation among special friends. Yet many people I know seem too busy to just sit still, and listen, and talk to one another. 
One big problem is that certain housemates hardly ever meet, except perhaps at the Huddle or in the bars. Often their houses aren't quite homes. Like the rest of America, housemates seldom eat together at a table. McDonald's becomes the chef of choice. and people see each other on the run. 
is can be depressing. People who expected to get closer to one another in their closing time at Notre Dame and St. Mary's can feel awkward in their own house, which after awhile is mainly used for 


0MPUS MINISTRY 
• 

I believe that off campus students make a mistake when they don't take the time and make the committment to get organiied and actually cook a meal for one another on a regular basis, once or twice a week at the least. Maybe the meat will be burned, likely the silver and china won't match, and yet the very act of preparing food and drink which will be shared by one's friends invites all those involved to experience layers of life which touch on the mythic. 
Christians believe in table fellowship. We have been taught and we have learned that to gather around a table and break bread and share wine opens up our lives and shows us that we belong to one another. 
Off campus life has a lot of great things about it. All of it is better when people use their kitchens once in a while. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 

'-------~~~~ ~------------~ 
!~+++++++++++++++++llll++++++!~llllll++: :++++++ ~ 
Weekend liturgies at Sacred Heart Church 
t: Sat Nov 23-5:00pm Fr. Joseph Ross, C.S.C. I 
1: 
l

Sun Nov 24-1 O:OOam Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.
t: " 
11 :45am Fr. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C. 
lttttttt!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! l 
~ 
r I I 
I 
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, November 19, 1991 
Baker, Chinese differ in opinions on talks 

BEIJING (AP) -China today described the visit of U.S. Secretary of State James Baker as successful but cast doubt on his claims to have won conces­sions in human rights, trade and arms control. 
While Baker said he won a Chinese pledge to adhere to in­ternational restraints on missile sales, China's Foreign Ministry said that it "may consider observing the Missile Technology Control Regime guidelines." 
It stressed China's condition that the United States lift sanctions against two Chinese arms companies involved in missile sales and lift a freeze on 
U.S. high-speed computer and satellite exports to China. 
On human rights, which Baker said dominated his three days of talks, the official China daily newspaper said, "The two sides discussed the issue, with each explaining its own views 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey 

and position." 
Baker said the Chinese gave
Spreading the news 

information about 800 political prisoners on a list submitted by the United States, and said it was the first time they had done so. However, the Chinese have provided information on similar lists submitted by other Western countries. 
Baker said they were told some names on the U.S. list could not be matched with any person. This has been China's response to other lists, which generally are based on infor­mation from prisoners' families and friends and international human rights groups. 
During his flight back to Washington, Baker indicated he was hopeful that some political prisoners might be released, saying, "Let's see what hap­pens." 
Instead, two Chinese women were arrested during his visit. One, whose husband is serving a 13-year jail term for his role in the 1989 democracy move­ment, was released Sunday night after his departure. 
Senior Dave Ludwig hangs posters for the NO chapter of Beta Alpha Psi, the accounting honors club. 
ttt~u::tiii·····i-::t·····t••ttn
•••:~·~ • • f! • l!. litftlft!f.S!•••• 
···················m·:n·························
.................. taaceot···················
Reactor built on earthquake site 
HAMAOKA, Japan-A smell of an earthquake of up to 8.5 on but many scientists are not so 
···································~················
·····················"'····························
salt on the wind reminds the Richter scale, roughly equal confident. 
·····················~····················· 
visitors that the ocean lies be­to the San Francisco quake of 
.............. ..............
~

yond a line of dunes near the 1906. 
··············sn~IUllHt•!i··············
"The location of Hamaoka is

Hamaoka Nuclear Power Others of about that magni­
one of the most dangerous in

Station. To the plant's design­tude struck the region, known 
the world," said Jinzaburo 

ers, it is a reminder of possible as the Tokai, in 1498, 1605, 
Takagi, a nuclear physicist who 

............... . ~·············
calamity. 1707 and 1854. Mount Fuji 
heads the private Citizens' 

·············~·-···~..············· 
Just off Japan's central coast, erupted one day after the 1707 
Nuclear Information Center.

where the plant began quake, which took about 20,000 
"They have no basis for such 

++++++++++ + • ++ w~ +++++++++operations 15 years ago, is an lives. 
··········~:m-·a·..tH·J··········
.......... . .. ..........
~ ~
remarks about safety. From the

undersea fault whose jolts have Hamaoka is about 120 miles 
very outset, they knew even the 

··········ttt·····a~····························
........... ~ am:······················......................
killed tens of thousands of peo­west of Tokyo in Shizuoka state, 
bedrock in the area was un­

ple over the centuries and even which has a population of 3.7 stable." 
.......... ~ ~··~ -.....
··········-=!t!R!!fti!I......Hf!!!!!•·····
................. .. .... ....... .............
caused an eruption of Mount million. 
Fuji. Builders of the plant made 
··········~ttttt~~ttt···························
::::::::::Jr~ ·~~~::::::::::t::::::::::::::::
As a fourth reactor at the "seismic design" their top pri­
"It's a dangerous gamble,"

Hamaoka complex nears com­ority, Sugiyama said, sinking 
acknowledged Takayoshi Iwata,

pletion, scientists say historical the pale-gray concrete reactor 
a geologist with the local 

U!!ltRtfmlfEJMlf.tt!HtHfHlBHIU!!
records indicate the next big buildings deep into the ground government, "But we are an 
quake is overdue. on wide, extra thick founda­energy-poor country and nu­
············E&·i!lii!!ifi&i*E···············
••••••••••• • rl ..............w.·············.
............ .
"This plant is probably in a tions. 
clear power plants have to be 

higher earthquake-risk area All operations are designed to 
U&Wi&Wi!iWfitiStiHiuti'Jii&!!
located somewhere." 

than any other in Japan," said shut down automatically if Nobuo Sugiyama, deputy man­seismographs register a strong ager of construction. "That's tremble. why we chose the site, because "We are 100 percent sure that 
THE BECKER CPA REVIEW COURSE FOR THE
we know what to prepare for." we will make it through a major Those preparations anticipate earthquake," Sugiyama said, 
MAY 1992 CPA EXAM WILL BE CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE SCIENCE HALL • LOWER LEVEL 
• 17 WEEK MONDAY-WEDNESDAY COURSE 
BEGINNING WITH SPECIAL EARLY CLASSES 12/2 & 12/4 
• FIRST 6 LECTURES FREE 
• EARN TUITION FREE CONTINUING HELP IN 
Seniors come help plan 
OVER 125 LOCATIONS 
the best month of 

• SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNT 
the year. 

• 30°/o FREE REPEAT TO ALL FORMER 
Sign up for the 

STUDENTS 
Senior Month Committee 
• SCHEDULE INFORMATION FOR ALL 125 
in Student Activities Office 
LOCATIONS 
by Wednesday, Nov. 20th 
CALL 277 4366 FOR MORE INFORMATION 

Tuesday, November 19, 1991 The Observer 
Property taxes for schools being threatened by lawsuits 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The traditional method of financing public education through local property taxes is being chal­lenged in courtrooms and state legislatures because of the dis­parity it produces in dollars and opportunities for pupils. 
"We can't help kids dream through money, but we can help kids dream through experi­ences-and money buys that," said George Towery, principal of Cameron Elementary School in Alexandria, Va. 
Americans traditionally have taken pride in loeal control and financing of public schools. But heavy reliance on local property taxes produees fiscal inequities beeause the tax base is not dis­tributed equally aeross school districts. 
Lawsuits are pending in more than 20 states charging fun­damental unfairness in educa­tional opportunity because of economic disparity, according to the Edueation Commission of the States. 
Over the past two-and-a-half years, courts in Kentucky, Montana, Texas and New Jersey have declared the state educational systems unconsti­tutional and ordered spending between affiuent and poor dis­tricts be equalized. 
The battle continues in some of those stabs. 
New Jersey still is trying to come up with ways to equalize its system. In Montana, a group of poorer school districts has launched a new challenge to the revamped financing system. 
"Each state is unique, but the major thing is there is a tremendous difference in the quality of education in some districts relative to other dis­tricts," said Richard Salmon, a public finance specialist at Virginia Tech. "Kids are dra­matically affected because of where they may reside." 
Property-poor districts usu­ally have low expenditures per pupil even with high tax rates, while districts with affluent residents and high property values have high expenditures per pupil-even with lower school tax rates. 
New Jersey's affluent Princeton area last year raised $8,346 per student, using a tax rate of 67 cents per $100 of assessed property value. Poorer Camden raised $4,186 per stu­dent but taxed its residents at $1.62 per $100. 
The result is dramatic. Between the two New Jersey ci­ties, the difference in resources amounts to about $104,000 per classroom of 25 students. Poorer areas have less money for salaries, books, instruction and other resources. 
Other examples abound: 
In Illinois, $2,100 is spent per student in the most impover­ished school district while the wealthiest spends more than $12,000. The state average per pupil is $4,500. 
The average per-pupil expen­diture in Maryland was $5,054 during 1989-90. Yet, Caroline County spent $1,049 per pupil, while Montgomery, the state's wealthiest county, spent $6,629. 
In Ohio, there is a $2,000 per­
pupil difference between the 
highest and lowest spending 
districts. 
Studies show the 100 poorest school districts in Texas spent about $3,000 per pupil com­pared with the $7,000 per-pupil expenditure in the 100 wealthi­est districts. 
Opponents want to change the way schools are financed to eliminate the geographic inequities. Some suggest shift­ing away from local property taxes to broader sources such as state income taxes or a more equal state redistribution of local property taxes. 
The Kentucky Legislature provided for new sales and business taxes to generate $1.3 billion over two years. The new law also calls for wealthier school systems to receive a de­creasing share of state money while poorer systems receive more aid. 
The Texas Supreme Court twice unanimously struck down as unconstitutional the $14 bil­lion-a-year school finance sys­tem. Just as a district court judge ruled in April that the legislature's school finance plan is constitutional, the wealthier districts filed a challenge, claiming the "Robin Hood" school finance law contained an unconstitutional state property tax. 
page 7 


The Obaetver/E.G. Balley 

Hear ye, hear ye 
Senior Roy Landry dons a medieval costume and hands out flyers to help publicize the performance of Shakespeare's "MacBeth" at Washington Hall this week. 

there are spots left in the class."
Rooney Housing
Thus, said Rooney, many women were not admitted. 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
real difference in the way men 

"It was more a matter that
and women were evaluated. 

some women were every bit as 
years," Kirk said. 
"What it came down to was at 

good as the other women we 
If a new female residence hall that time of year, when we have 
were admitting," he said, "but 
is opened, it is likely that more
a committee to review 

could not make it because we 
transfer students will be givencandidates," he said, "there are ran out of spots." 
on-campus housing than inmany more applicants than 
previous years, Kirk added. The officers of the University will decide how the gender 
limit will be lifted and how to accommodate the new female 
If you see news happening, 
call 239-5303. 
students. "It's a pretty compli­cated analysis," he said. 
The Observer 
There are several factors that 
are to be taken into considera­
tion before a decision is made: 
•Size. Some dorms might be better suited to accommodate
THE PROBLEM: LOST CONTACT LENS 
the increase in female students due to their size. 
BODEANS
THE SOLUTION: PROFESSIONAL VISION 
•Location. For socialization purposes, the location of the residence hall(s) that will be changed is an important factor. 
·TONIGHT·
* We'll call your doctor at no charge to you 
•Balance. If a dorm is 
and quickly replace your contact lens 

changed to a female residence hall, a balance on the quad
* Conveniently located near campus 
must be maintained. Thus, the
* Eye exams and complete vision care 
male-female ratio of residence 
8:• pm Stepan Canter 
halls on each of the quads must be taken into consideration. 
available 

20% Discount on materials to students and faculty 
Correction
7ickets still available at 
-~ ­--~ --

LaFortune Student Canter
-== =­

A caption for a photo in
-~=-­

Friday's Observer incorrectly
Professional Vision 

identified the benefactor of the 
and at the door. 
Schaheen-Mestrovic Memorial as Eli and Helen Sturgis. The
Dr. Ronald Snyder 

memorial was donated by Eli 
and Associates and Helen Shaheen of Sturgis, 

$8 ND/SMC students 
Mich. The Observer regrets the error.
2n-11s1 
$12 public 
VISA Mastercard 

1635 N.lronwood and Discover accepted 
North of McDonalds 
1--------------------­
Ace
Page 8 

r 
r 



A day 
By ANDREW MCCLOSKEY 
Photo Editor 

He likes hoops, Bob Dylan and raisins on his cereal. He wakes up in mid-morning and usually doesn't get to sleep till 3 a.m. Sounds like he could be just about any male on NO's campus. Well, he's not. 
He's the Big Cheese, the Numero Uno, the BMOC, the Godfather, The Prez. He probably wouldn't want you to call him any of these names, though. In fact, though he is known to the world as University President Father Edward Malloy, he would rather you just call him 'Monk'. 
You know what he looks like. He's that gray-haired monolith we at Notre Dame call our President. 
You may have seen him at the altar at a mass, or casually walking across the quad. But outside these brief encounters his life remains a mystery to most people. 
What Monk does in the office varies from day to day, but there is some consistency to his normally hectic day. 
In any given day Monk will meet with individual members of his staff, keep abreast on University-related issues and correspond with people both inside and outside the NO-community. 
Monk's meal schedule should give you an indication to why his day is anything but ordinary. He claims that he never gets to eat on his own. Monk's lunches and dinners are booked with meetings with various members of the Notre Dame community. 
•
1n 

about Monk's when he comes the Dome? Does Led Zepplin or Floyd? 
Actually he do does have his a day's work. "reader," and 
In a given York Times, Chicago Sun Tribune, and addition to and student 
--------~-----------~-~----­


..J. 



we to s owcase nts p ng  
basketball with students at Moreau  
Seminary.  
For those students who are too busy to  
meet Monk on the hardwood, Monk  
leaves his door open at night. Students  
't do either, but he  often stop by to talk about personal  
of relaxing after  concerns and campus-related issues.  
"'"''r••~"" himself a  Some stop by just to talk.  
plnnty of it.  All in all, virtually everything is part of  
will rnad the New  a day's work for the man at the top.  
go Tribune, the  Meeting with officials and going to  
, Tho South Bend  dinners are as much a part of his day as  
Observer, all in  is shooting the bull with students. While  
, letters, journals  this report may give you some insight  
which he has to  into Monk's life, the only way to get the  
real scoop is to stop by and meet him  
ws, Monk knows  yourself.  
ll can't slam (his  So head on over to his room in Sorin  
palm the ball) he  and say "hello." And look for the  
ties he gets twice a  "Welcome" sign.  

.... 

-----~----------~--~-------­
~­

-----~---------­
... 
Accent 

The National Shakespeare Company presents the classic tragedy 'Macbeth' 
By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Accent Writer 
"Macbeth," the Shakespearean play most well-known and frequently produced in the 20th century came alive before a crowded Washington Hall audience last night, treating the audience to classic 17th century theater with an unusual modern twist. 
Draped in costumes bordering on futuristic and gaudy, the company combines the gripping passions of classic Shakespearean tragedy with the delightful suspense of true entertainment. 
The actors display a range of expertise that, despite minor flaws, constitutes an ultimately successful show. 
John Lenartz shines as Macbeth, delivering an interpretation of his character with a nearly perfect combination of confidence and cowardice. 
His soliloquies became increasingly more passionate and convincing as the play progresses. 
Macbeth struggles with greed and duty, passion and precaution, lust for power and personal knowledge of mercy-each conflict comes across flawlessly, until the audience finally understands the meaning of Macbeth's "restless ecstasy." 
Lenartz' expressiveness is complemented by Kimberly Winston, whose performance as Lady Macbeth is dynamic, though frequently unconvincing next to her talented partner. 
Her outlandish costume fit in well with those of her fellow actors and actresses, but tends to lessen the credibility of her already doubtful character and remind the audience of Joan Collins or Elizabeth Taylor, rather than a dignified queen. 


She masters, however, that aspect husband. of Lady Macbeth's character which The National Shakespeare prompts, taunts and tortures her Company, in it's twenty-ninth year of touring, sweeps the nation performing "classics for everyman." According to Elaine Sulka, the company's co-founder and artistic director, shows are produced in areas where access to theater is lim­ited by geography or budget. 
In slightly garish costumes, some of which border on the ensembles of modern bikers rather than medieval warriors (0, "Why do you dress me in borrowed robes?"), a talented cast nevertheless succeeds in recreating the journey of Macbeth from military hero to Thane of Cawdor, and finally, King of Scotland. 
His subsequent downfall is the focus of most of the play, which develops themes of morality, duty and temptation. 
Quality performances by Glenn Fleshier as Macduff and David Loar as Banquo overshadow David Lockhart's ineffective performance as Malcolm. 
Michael Antonik's entertaining performance should not go unnoticed; it elicits laughter from a crowd otherwise caught up in the heavy mood of the play. 
Simple scenery proves ample for the small stage-a few scenes, especially Banquo's murder, are cleverly staged. 
Those lucky enough to have tickets to this evening's show will be pleasantly surprised by this long but nevertheless fresh performance of a familiar work. 
The costumes are eye-catching if 
not  appropriate,  and  the  
interpretations  of  the  cast  
compelling.  

But as you sit and take in this Shakespearean treasure, I pray you: remember the porter. 
'Bathgate' adds a twist to gangster genre 
By ELIZABETH HAYES 
Film Critic 
Every once and a while a movie comes along that can be called golden. 
No matter what is done to the film: over-commercialization, ruthless editing, untried actors, controversial actors, a 
redundant story-line, an ambiguous ending -it is still a great piece of cinema. 
"Billy Bathgate" is one of those movies. There are a lot of very good reasons that this film is so excellent, seemingly against all odds. 
Take a look at it objectively. First of all, it is a gangster flick. The market is awash in gangster flicks. On top of that, the competition among them is stiff. How do you compete with "Godfather Part III?" 
Also, the film has obviously been mercilessly edited. It is already longer than two hours, but the viewer leaves with the impression that so much more was cut out. This movie could have lasted for four hours. 
So much was left unsaid, and every other scene seems to be the kernel of a much more well-developed sequence. 

For example, Billy's relationship with his Bronx girlfriend, the treachery of Lucky Luciano, and the ro­mance between Drew Preston (Nicole Kidman) and Bo Weinburg (Willis), are all cut short and barely addressed. 
There could have been so much more in this movie and the filmmakers have denied it to us, I suppose for fear of boring us. 
The last and possibly most important obstacle is the literary nature of this film. The movie is based on E.L. Doctorow's "Billy Bathgate-A Novel." 
Doctorow is a well-liked au­thor, but excellent books do not necessarily make excellent movies, especially books of this size. "Dune," written by Frank Herbert (directed by David Lynch) is proof that everything can go absolutely wrong with great literary material. 
With the risk of reducing a book to a film, another risk is added by the screenwriter. 
Tom Stoppard, the sometimes 
.,Bathgate Produced by Arlene Donovan and Robert Colesbery Directed by Robert Benton * * * * * 
(out of five) 

resemble those of the 1930's, he walks more like an early­1980s skater punk than a Depression-era hood, and his stocky body and heavy features are hardly movie-star quality. 
His Bronx accent, which could be suspected as real, is so thick as to be offensive. His voice is not deep and he often controlled so it does not be­come unrealistic. 
Willis' quasi-cameo in the beginning of the film is a perfect balance between the two characters, showing off both of their best qualities. 
For this reason, and the fact that both the original story and the screenplay are 
controversial but well-know playwright ("Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead" and "Travesties") rewrote this book for the screen. In typical Stoppard style he makes an ending that is both unexpected and not immediately understandable. 
In spite of these obstacles, something saves this film. 
Loren Dean, an unknown, gangly, red-haired, gap-toothed youngster plays the title role of a young Irish boy trying to make it big in Dutch Schultz's gang. 
Who would have thought that someone so unlikely could be so appealing? For the first few minutes of the film the viewer may be surprised that Dean was picked for the part. 
The lad's haircut does not 
speaks with a boyish catch in it. 
And he is wonderful. The viewer is immediately riveted to him and loves him. He looks, and acts, just exactly like ev­erybody's 17 year-old brother. He is both endearing and painfully awkward. 
His thick features and deep brown eyes show every emotion as clearly on his face as if they were written there. His loping stride and school­boy manner make him an even more vulnerable, and therefore admirable, hero. 
Add to this the perfection of the foil between Dean and Hoffman. Dutch Schultz's cyni­cism perfectly plays off Billy's innocence. The fatherly atti­tude Schultz adopts towards Billy makes for a fascinating relationship, but this motif is uncommonly well-written, all the problems listed above disappear. The over-cutting becomes a sort of teasing-giving us only bits of really great film and leaving us begging for more. 
Willis, Hoffman, and Dean suddenly become incredibly well-cast. The movie leaves the viewer wanting to read the book and to read plays by Stoppard. 
This movie is a definite must­see-don't-you-dare-miss-it. The gangster film lovers will be shown a fresh side of the genre, the Hoffman and Willis fans will be satisfied, and lovers of good books and plays will get the quality that is is so often lacking in commercial cinema . 
...... 
·~---------~­

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 19, 1991 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, Is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL 
Officers should approve SMC parietals proposal 
Much has been said about campus life at Saint Mary's. Students complain about the lack of campus activities, the strict enforcement of rules and the campus security. 
And then there's parietals. 
The present parietal system restricts visitation and inter­action with inconsistent hours throughout the week. Monday through Thursday visitation is limited to 4 p.m. un­til midnight, Friday 4 p.m. until 2 a.m., Saturday noon until 2 a.m., and Sunday noon until midnight. 
The Hesidence Hall Association has presented a proposal to the Senior Officers of the College regarding the implementa­tion of new parietal hours at Saint Mary's. Discussion of the proposal, which suggests changing the hours to 10 a.m. until 3 a.m. daily, is on the agenda for today's meeting. 
This proposal represents the opinions of a majority of the students residing on campus. A campus-wide poll revealed that students want to see the system changed. 
These students deserve to have their views heard and acted upon. With the rising number of students choosing to move oiT-eampus, the officers need to listen to the concerns of the on-campus students to prevent further emigration. 
The proposal provides a step toward the improvement of campus life for Saint Mary's students. Extended parietals would increase opportunities for social interaction by giving students more freedom for visitation. This freedom might even quell some of the other complaints students have voiced about campus life. 
The parietal change will promote a sense of student trust in the administration. Students will feel more satisfied with their ability to have an impact on the rules that they must follow, and thus more willing to live by these regulations. And they will gain respect for an administration that demonstrates an earnest interest in students' satisfaction. 
Concerns for student safety have been raised in the discus­sion of extending parietals. The extended hours will not en­danger students' well-being any more than the present hours. Parietal procedure will not be changed, doors will continue to be monitored and visitor identification will still be taken. 
The senior officers need to respond in a timely manner to this proposal. If they do not, students' dissatisfaction will continue to grow and more women will move ofT-campus. 
By implementing the changes to parietals, the administra­tion will take a positive step toward increased student satis­faction. The Officers shouldn't pass up this chance to make a concrete improvement. 
DOONESBURY 

A CONVICTWHO'S SUING
YOU !<.NOlA/, I '1$ E3IZf.J 
IAIH0'5 7H& GOVt;RNM&NTFOR.

THINKING I OUGHT 7lJ 
8/?£7T 7RYIN6 70 5/tE/'-JCb HIM. KJM-Hl3 ClAIM? H& 50W 8f3Rt!N? MARIJUANA 7V 6KJAYL£ ON 1'5 OR. MOR/3 OCLA ·
/ 
510N9.' ----­

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Carroll Hall addresses complaints 

Dear Editor: 
On the afternoon of Sunday, Nov. 10, 1991, the Carroll Hall football team beat the Zahm football team in double over­time by a score of 13-10. Wednesday night, at about 8:30 p.m., the Carroll Hall team was informed that they would be forced to forfeit the game to Zahm for RecSport violations concerning the use of ineligible players. 

Zahm's complaint was twofold. First, that one of Carroll's players lived off-cam­pus and therefore was ineligi­ble; and, second, that two Carroll football players are Holy Cross students and should not have been permitted to par­ticipate. Mter a complaint was filed, Zahm's case was taken before a board of five students. 
There, it was decided that Carroll Hall had, in fact, used ineligible players during its win over Zahm and would have to forfeit the game. Thus, Zahm, not Carroll, would face Keenan in Notre Dame Stadium on Sunday, Nov. 17, 1991. 
OfT-campus players have his­torically been allowed to play for Carroll Hall and other small dorms. Carroll Hall has one hundred and six students within its walls. Because in the past we have been allowed to field players who previously resided within our hall but lived off-campus, we assumed that we would be permitted to con­tinue this practice during the 1991 season. 
However, due to our unexpected success, this policy was challenged and apparently overturned, and the Carroll Hall football team was punished retroactively. 
Second, we have two players living in Carroll Hall \ ho are 
MfJRIJUANA? YffAH,BUTTH& BUT YW 5410 {AS8 WA'3 IN QUAYte a/A~ !NlJIANA, IA/fVJR/3 /NVt5T/6ATW 1</ME!fRt-IN 19 R'.JR BUYING FROM. A14YB'8 {.{){AIN£. THtl?b'5 A 
I 
enrolled at Holy Cross College. There were no objections to their participation in our foot­ball program last year; but, once again, now that Carroll Hall's football showed potential to win the coveted interhall championship, Zahm Hall roared with objections. 
If the University of Notre Dame allows these students to live in the Carroll community, then by rights these students should be allowed to play on the Carroll Hall football squad. 
The five people who ruled in Zahm's protest were students. Why were RecSport officials unwilling to rule on this all-im­portant subject themselves, but rather offered a panel of stu­dents to make this crucial deci­sion? The Vermin will never know. 
This is the first year that a Carroll Hall football team has been past the first round of the play-offs. As the smallest dorm here at Notre Dame, Carroll Hall was bursting with pride at the thought of playing for the interhall championship in the stadium. Parents and grand­parents of Carroll Hall players had planned to come watch their sons and grandsons play for the title on Sunday. Instead, due to the last minute change, the Carroll family has been let down. 
Please realize that we are not attacking Zahm Hall. Many of their players played with class and lost a hard fought game with dignity. Some Zahm play­ers waited up to twenty minutes to shake our player's hands after our endzone celebration, and we have the utmost respect for them. 
However, facts are facts, and they cannot be denied. A proud group of Carroll Hall students were not given the opportunity to play in the stadium. They earned this privilege through hard work, dedication, and unity, and now, after a petty complaint, they have been robbed of what they rightfully deserve. 
The Vermin Carroll Hall 
Nov. 14, 1991 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
ICAN78'3­
U&IIE IAI&'RE TAIJ<.ING 
ABOUT 

AV!t:b P/<&91[)fflT. 
I 

fAJ&U, 7Hl3Y'!<£ TH80Nf3.5 WITH TOO 
MU(J-( TIME? ON7H8/R HAN/?S. 
'I was much further out than you thought-and not waving but drowning.' 
Stevie Smith 
Don't ignore it, submit it: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND,/N 46556 



-~--------~-~---~--­
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, November 19, 1991 
Bonilla meets with Mets, Phillies, L.A., Angels and Sox 
NEW YORK (AP)-The New York Mets and the Philadelphia Phillies have begun the Bobby Bonilla chase, which continues this week with visits to the Chicago White Sox, Los Angeles Dodgers and California Angels. 
Bobby Bonilla and his agent met with the Phillies on Saturday and received a finan­cial proposal. After a 2-hour, 45-minute meeting on Sunday, the Mets said they would make one soon. 

"It was a frank and open dis­cussion," Mets general manager AI Harazin said through spokesman Jay Horwitz. "We had a nice dinner. They had asked if an offer would be made. We said, 'Dennis, this is a you-get-to-know-us, we-get-to­know-you session. It's a social evening. We will get back to you in due time with an offer.'" 
Bonilla, who hit .302 with 18 homers and 100 RBis for Pittsburgh last season, turned down an $18.5 million, four­year offer to re-sign with the Pirates. He met Saturday with Phillies president Bill Giles and general manager Lee Thomas, then met Sunday with Harazin and Mets chief operating officer Frank Cashen. 
Bonilla grew up in the Bronx, went to school at Lehman High School in the Bronx and spent a semester at New York Tech in Westbury, N.Y. At times, he has expressed a desire to play in New York. 
''I'm not going to try to bore you and sell you on New York," Harazin said he told Bonilla. "You were born here and know New York better than I do." 
The Mets, expected to con­tend for the N.L. East title, slumped to fifth place at 77-84, their poorest record since 1983. 
Bonilla met Friday in Florida · with new manager Jeff Torborg. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Driving to the Wheaton/ CONGRATULATIONS YO...CORE RENEGADES from 

EARN $2.000.
PERSONAL

NOTICES Naperville area or ANDY WEIGERT's #1 class last 
+

surroundings for ThanksG.? KEENAN HALL year: Get ready for a reunion (this 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRI 

Call Chris, x1501 I am the lizard King and I can do means YOU Ingrid!). Dinner at TYPING AVAILABLE anything. ON A SPECTACULAR SEASON! Bruno's Wed. night. Meet at the 
North America's #1 Student Tour 287-4082 library Circle at 6:45 p.m. Call Raft 
Operator seeking motivated ATTENTION JUNIORS Ill THE 1991 INTERHALL or Monica if you can drive, if you are 
students, organizations, We need pictures for the JPW slide Monica Eigelberger is a ho. FOOTBALL CHAMPIONS coming. (This means YOU Ingrid). 
fraternities Buy and Sell used books show. Please bring horizontal Be there ..... 
and sorortties as campus Pandora 's Books--newbooks and pictures (no alcohol showing) to HOW DOES IT FEEL TO BE THE 
representatives promoting Cancun the NY limes tool! Student Activities or your dorm stronger than burt 
Bahamas, Daytona and Panama corner of ND ave and Howard President as soon as possible! BESTIIII SPRING BREAK IN CANCUNI 
City!

233-234211 0-5:30 everyday Don't forget to put your name and REPRESENTATIVES WANTED. address on each picture so they can INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. COLLEGE TOURS, THE NATION'S be returned. Good rates. Save Money. Call me .....IRISH GARDENS..... LARGEST AND MOST 


ALTERATIONS AND DEADLINE: Dec. 2nd for a quote 9:30.6:00, SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL 289-1993. Office near campus. *This weekend 22nd & 23rd TOUR OPERATOR NEEDS 
UJSE $500...$1000...$1500 

259-8684. Irish Gardens will ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS $40,000/yrl READ BOOKS and TV extend hours until 6:30PM. REPRESENTATIVES. EARN FREE Scripts. Fill out simple --TOM WESTRICK--TRIPS AND CASH! WE PROVIDE 
IFOOLI 

WORD PROCESSING "like/don't like" form. EASYI Fun, --TOM WESTRICK--Lots of dances so come in EVERYTHING YOU NEED. CALL 
256-6657 relaxing at home, beach, vacations. --TOM WESTRICK--& pre-orderll 1-800-395-4896 FOR MORE Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 You weenie in INSBRUCK INFORMATION. Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Angie, Eric, Dave, and BIG J. Rock IRISH GARDENS OPEN 'TIL 
~~~r·=·J~ 

Spee·Dee Wordprocessing Copyright #IN11 KEB. wish you well in thailand of easy 6:30PM 
FU.-.D 

237-1949 "A". BECKY, you mean more to me than May your skiing ever be in those you can imagine. I grow closer to SPRING BREAK REPS NEEDED wonderful mounds of Austrian you every day, and love every Fast, Professional Typing mountains. SPRING BREAKII Bahamas Party minute of it.-8 
RAISING 

277-7406 EARN CASH AND FREE TRAVEL Cruise $2791 Panama City $991 S. 
For your fraternity,

SELLING TRIPS TO JAMAICA, --TOM Padre $1991 Cancun $4691 Jamaica 
soronty, team or other

CANCUN, AND FLORIDA. CALL WESTRICK TOM $3991 Kathleen 283·3958, Usa 283-BP BLITZ· 
campus organization. 

LOST/FOUND STS @ 1·800·648·4849. WESTRICK TOM 4667. 
ABSOLUTELY NO

WESTRICK--CHAMPS AGAIN I 
INVISfMINf RIQUIRIDI 

I've played for 4 years and have LOST: A GOLD BRACELET OF SPRING BREAK '92! SUPER­never had as much fun as 
CALL 1·800-950·8472, ext. 50 GREAT SENTIMENTAL ATTENTION WASH. D.C. AREA SPECIAL PRICES if you make I did this season. Thanks to the VALUE-AROUND THE STUDENTSIll Sign-ups for reservations before Christmas! best group of people Iva JACC OR WASHINGTON BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY X-mas bus are 8-9p.m. Nov. 19 in Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas from ever met. lve never been prouder. HALL. PLEASE CALL 219-291-7153 basement Lafortune. Cost­only $399 including roundtrip Thanks for the championship and 1456 $551way/$110 rt. airfare, great hotel. and much morel THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES! THE BEST AVAILABLEI1-800·331· 
FOR RENT 
ACNE 

NICE FURNISHED HOMES 3136. Love, Carrie CLOSE NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT Mother Hysterical! 
A NASTY FOUR 

LOST-Gold chain with diamond K. SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6 Frosh needs ride to Pitt Area. If found, please return to Kirsten at PEOPLE 2773097 Call x1527 Damian Krisli if you only knew what really Andrea-
LEITER WORD 

X3352, happened! You said you read the personals to and I'll love you forever! But don't worry about it just have get a message. 
If you had started 

BEDROOM IN A HOME $200/MO. BB ST. TIX CHEAPII another. Here it is. USE OF All UTILITIES, CALL LISA 4862 -Chris the Fencer 
on clear Care Acne 

LOST: Grey gloves w/ black leather LAUNDRY, ETC. trim, possibly in library basement. CALL PAUL232-2794. CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP 
Treatment 30 days 

I 
Please call Patrick at 258-4655. "THE SECOND INTERVIEW: A MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30 P.M. GuitarisVSongwriter looking for lead PRESENTATION ON THE OFFICE FOR INFO: CALL272-8890 guitarist and bassist to form an 
ago, you would be 

FURNISHED APT. NEAR ND VISIT" BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF original folk-rock band. Call Nick COZV 2 BDRM. $285 CAREER AND PLACEMENT x2348 
clear of Acne today
WANTED 

DEP. REF. 288-7207. SERVICES TOMORROW. ¢00 The Copy Shop 000 
For free samples, 

6:30 PM, NOTRE DAME ROOM OF LaFortune Student Center 
Gymnastic instructor to teach young LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. WHEN YOU NEED COPIES ...IRISH GARDENS*.. children in South Bend area. Must Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt. ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS WE'RE OPEN 
information on ho 

enjoy working With children. Must Furnished. $200. /Mon. INVITED. EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS Wacky Wednesday Special also have your own transportation. $150. Dept. Call277-8866 
Clear Care's topical 

Will train, flexible hours. Send Tues/Sat. 10am/5pm. Any Purchase Over $5 
medications work, 

resume to: "THE SECOND INTERVIEW: A Sharing our love with a baby would Receive a Free Cardll BRYSON STAPLES PRESENTATION ON THE OFFICE be a dream come true. Please help C/0 DAYS INN 3 BDRM. HOUSE $390 + VISIT* BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF us with our dream. Call Marty or ..This weekend Irish Gardens 52757 U.S. 31 NORTH · ROOM UTILITIES. AVAILABLE NOW! 900 CAREER AND PLACEMENT Nancy collect will EXTEND hours until 
Call our Skin Care

208 BLOCK OF E. LASALLE. 271-0373. SERVICES TOMORROW 6:30 PM, (317) 842-8312. 6:30 PMIIIIII SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 NOTRE DAME ROOM OF ..Lots of dances come in and 
Information Line

LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. pre-order.
..................

ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS "THE SECOND INTERVIEW: A 
(800) 435-3533 
FOR SALE 

PART·TIME CLEAN-UP HELP INVITED. PRESENTATION ON THE OFFICE NEEDED AT BRIDGErS $6/HR. VISIT" BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF APPLY WED. THRU SAT. AT Pioneer speakers: , 4-way 200Watt. CAREER & PLACEMENT HAIL TO THE VICTORS 
7:30 PM OR CALL271-0373. nice. Jon 271-1562 KEENAN FOOTBALL: SERVICES TOMORROW 6:30 PM, 
NO MINORS. NOTRE DAME ROOM, CONGRATULATIONS , ~ Congratulations on winning the LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. 
GRACE 8-D •• 
M6Ml~~

1990 INFINITI M30 SPORTS 1991 Inter-Hall Football ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS 
1991 SECTION FOOTBALL ~ Ride needed to east side of COUPE. BURGUNDY W/GRAY Championship! You guys are a INVITED. Cleveland on Wed. Eve. or Thur. LEATHER. LOADED class act! day of Thanksgiving Break. Call W/EVERYTHING. 21 ,000 MILES. 
I_N_Yc_oH_uA_RM_;_~:_:_:_._D___ !S~ 
Usa at 239-5890. $18,500 277-3784. Carroll Hall · The Vermin HELPII need a ride to ST. LOUIS for the Tues or Wed ofT. Break. Call Mary x4698 Happy Belated B-Day Outlaw 
rI

RIDE NEEDED TO PITTSBURGH Round Trip lickello HAWAII TOP 11 QUOTES FROM N.D. OVER THANKSGIVING See the Thanksgiving Game WATER POLO TRIP 
Will help drive, pay gas, give **Extremely Cheap.. 11. OSU 14, ND 10. HEY CATHY R. I All of the parties involved would like some of Mom's homemade pie. call Dan at 288·0933 10. I didn't hit him, I bumped him. 1Feliz Cumpleanosl to express their deep gratitude for GEORGE X1002-TRACEY X3864 9. Hey jerky, !ook it up in the rule if U C this girl jumping in the library the safe return of 3D Jesus from 
I lEAKSI

book! elevators, wish her a great 22ndl PW. The lord will bless your hearts, 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 

CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 8. I can't feel my toes. -your coprez of Soc. of N/G, and who knows what Doug will do. 
DAYTONA BEACH "'m'104

89 MERCEDES $200, 7. Well at least Butch got there in JENNY Thank you again 
5 and 7 NICHTS 

HELPIIIII 86 VW$50 time. -Rich· 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ""mll28 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS

I need a ride to 87 MERCEDES $100, 6. You're going the wrong wayI 
STEAMBOAT .,,1122

HARRISBURG_YORK AREA 65 MUSTANG $50. 5. I get the trophy the first week. LOOK OUT 
2, 5 AND 7 NICHTS 

for Thanksgiving Break. Choose from thousands starting 4. Will you buy me a KID SPRING BREAK '921 THE 
PANAMA CITY BEACH "·"1122 
7 NIGHTS

(if you're going to Baltimore $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording cheeseburger ? THEY KEEP IT ALL ULTIMATE VACATION including 
FORT LAUDERDALE ""m II:J6

that's good,also.) Reveals Details 801-379-2929 3. Who do we know here? HID airfare, hotel, all meals, beverages, 
7 NICHTS

Please, Call Mike x1670 Copyright 2. What the hell is a grouse? watersports, and morel This trip is 
HILTON HEAD ISL).ND ...,mlff9

#IN11KJC. 1. Whoopee, it's EMF. not for everyone; but if you want 
5 AND 7 NICHTS 

Andy Weigert CORE veterans, THE BEST for only $799, Call 1· 
MUSTANG ISLAND I "~·'128 

section 34 1990-91 : It's reunion 800·331-3136. 
PORT ARANSAS 
5 AND 7 NICHTS 

FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS TICKETS time. Dinner at Bruno's Wed. night. 
ltth Annual Celebration! 

to students or student organizations CONGRATULATIONS Meet at the library Circle at 6:45 
promoting our Spring Break CHEAP! CHEAP! CHEAP! Carroll Hall on a great year! p.m. Riders and drivers...call LISA BONGIOVII Packages. Good Pay & Fun. Call Selling plane tickets to Hawaii for Thank you.for your support in our Monica or Raft for details or just to Thanks so much for making the TOLL FREE IN FORMAT •ON &RISIRVATIONI CMI. 1-800-423-5264. Thanksgiving victory over Zahm Sunday! say YES you're going. (Even Andy Hollywood SYR, the best ever! 1·800·3 21·5911 Call x3457 Keenan Hall will be there!) Love,the Pink ladies & T-Birds 
~~ 
~~ 



---~---­
SCOREBOARD
Tuesday, November 19, 1991 
a e 13 

Profits, revenues and expenses for the 26 major league baseball teams. 
0 
-50 
100

" '83 ·~·as ·as '87 ·~a '89'90 
Morris Civic Auditorium -South Bend November 22-23-24 Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 & 8 p.m., Sunday 2 p.m. E.S.T. Tickets: $12.50 to $26.50 Box Office Open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday 
and until curtain on show days. Phone (219) 284-9190 MasterCard &VISA Accepted Group, Student & Senior Citizen Discounts 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 

Special Student Offer: 2 Tickets for the Price of One-$16.50 (Sunday Matinee Only) 
QB Lynn Ervin, sr., B.P. Tracy Garrison, sr., B. P. RB Kristy Alkidas, sr., Off-Campus Christal Henderson, sr., Howard RB Jessica Raniszeski, jr., B.P. Amy Rynell, sr., Off-Campus 
WR Lisa Petursson, sr., B.P. Sheila Keenan, sr., Howard 
TE Liz Toohey, sr., Walsh Jane Daly, fr., Lyons OL Darcy Mehling, jr., B.P. Carrie Norton, sr., Off-Campus OL Amy Rynell, sr., Off-Campus Carol Ruff, sr., Off-Campus .. 
c Martha McKenna, sr., Howard Carrie Golas, sr., B.P. K Michelle Hurst, so., B.P. Sarah Donnelly, fr., Howard 
QB Shari Shepard, so., Badin DL Amy Adamonis, sr., B.P. RB Megan Duffy, fr., B.P. DL Jenny Bregenzer, sr., Howard 
RB Sarah Donnelly, fr., Howard DL Amy Kraft, sr., Off-Campus WR Lynne Russo, so., Lyons LB Ann Fleming, sr., Badin TE Kristen Orlando, sr., Off-Campus LB Maureen Thomas, so., Howard OL Amy Kraft, sr., Off-Campus LB Margaret Shane, sr., Off-Campus 
OL Cariyn Gaul, fr., Walsh CB Tomi Otey, jr., Walsh C Emily Piovarcy, sr., Off-Campus S Kelly McCrystal, sr., Off-Campus K Deb Skahan, sr., Badin P Michelle Hurst, so., B.P. 
• THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME SPORTS Tonight
-=-~ 
M.Basketball ve. A.I.A.7:30 p,m@ JACC
f'\ORffiU c'f'nYiR cfcSR Tttt 41 R T s 
Friday, November 22 
]onatlian Frid's 
Hockey vs.lake Forest 7:30p.m.@ JACC 
Swimming ve~ Kanaaa 8:30p.m.@ Ch81T1l.. lll.
sliahespearean 
W.Basketball va. Penn St .7:30 p.m. @ JACC 
OcfySSg' 
Selected readings from As You Like It, Richard II, Richard III, The Tempest, Much Ado About Nothing and A Midsummer Night's Dream 
THIS SATURDAY, NOV. 23 8 P.M., THE LITTLE THEATRE 
Tickets: $6/$5 $3 for Saint Mary's community members 
A limited number of complimentary tickets are available to Saint Mary's students 
Tickets lor all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box oHice, located in O'laughlin Auditorium,Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Visa/MasterCard orders at 2191284-4626 
\\0 me to H1c,

---t!t·--­o~~fll!fl!i..~'~o
<.~.,
Saint Mary's Coli~~ 

Hiifii!fidij
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
• 


page 14 The Observer Tuesday, November 19,1991 
SPDR'ISBRIEFS
Women harriers finish eleventh 
•Sports briefs are accepted every day except Saturday until By JONATHAN JENSEN at 22nd with a time of 18:14. The rest of the Irish places 5:00 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. 
Sports Writer Flood, who hails from Dublin, were filled by freshmen Sarah Please include your name and phone number in case there are
Ireland, came in 14 seconds Riley (105), Kristine Kramer 
any questions concerning your brief. 
The Notre Dame women's after Jensen at 30th. {110), and Kala Boulware {118). cross-country team finished "Stefanie and Eva ran really These three newcomers will be •The Water Polo Club will be having a mandatory meeting 11th at the District IV meet in well," said the senior captain counted upon to contibute today to discuss an upcoming tournament and to draw names forBloomington on Friday; an im­Bradley. "They ran close to greatly to next year's team. 
our SYH dance this Saturday .
provement over last year's each other, but there was a The only runner Notre Dame 14th-place finish. huge gaJt between the rest of will lose next year is Bradley. 
•The ND/SMC Ski team will be showing Warren Miller's
The top two teams earned us." However, the loss of the Irish 
"Born to Ski" on Tuesday, November 19 at 7:00 in the
an automatic bid to the NCAA The two freshmen have been leader will be hard to stomach O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets are sale at the O'Laughlin ticketChampionships in Tuscon, Ariz., a breath of fresh air for the and Gorski will have to pick up office and the LaFortune Info desk for $6.50. 
a goal Notre Dame has been Irish this season, carrying the the slack by assuming Bradley's shooting for all year. However, team throughout the year. leadership role. 
•Sugar Bowl tickets will be on sale Thursday, November 21Wisconsin dominated the meet, "Their consistency is the great­Of course the future Of the through December 4. Tickets will be $40 apiece and each
finishing all seven runners est asset," noted Bradley. Notre Dame women's cross 
student may present 4 IDs. All tickets will be issued at Notreamong the top 31 and three in "Whether they start there or country program hinges upon Dame upon payment. 
the top ten. not, they always end up finish­the performance of the class of Coming in, Notre Dame hoped ing well. .. and that's what it 1995, led by Jensen and Flood. 
•ND/SMC field hockey will not have practice this week. 
to keep all of their top runners takes." The rest of the current fresh­together, as this was the only The District meet marks only men like Riley, Kramer, •The Notre Dame Ski Club still has 3 spots open for ourwas they could get a top finish. the second time this year Flood Boulware, Becky Alfieri, and Christmas Trip to Crested Butle, CO. Call to reserve your spot for However, the Irish group broke has not been NO's top runner, Emily Husted, will also be the best skiing out west. Questions, call Woodsy at 277-7089.
up, a common occurrence at a as she has led the Irish in four counted on to lead the Irish to large meet like the Districts, out of their six meets. Jensen. the promised land next year. with 217 runners participating. has been the top Irish finisher "It didn't go the way we twice, and she has consistently The promised land is the 
Awards Rules
wanted it to go," noted Diana ran second in the other meets. NCAA Championships, and the Bradley. "We did better than Notre Dame's only two up­outgoing Bradley sees it as a 
continued from page 16 continued from page 16 
last year, but we should have perclassmen, Bradley and ju­realistic goal for next year's been in the top 10." nior Lisa Gorski, finished at youthful but experienced team. round of this year's playoffs, Although the need for a new 
As has been the story all sea­101st and 84th, respectively. she gained nearly 100 yards policy is needed it would be son, Notre Dame was lead by But their contribution to the "The freshmen class is going and scored one touchdown as disappointing to see a stern 
freshmen Stefanie Jensen and team cannot be measured by to be unstoppable." Off-Campus nearly knocked off prevention policy enforced by Eva Flood. Jensen, a native of pure numbers, as they have the Blue Division champs. RecSports take the place of the South Lake Tahoe, Nev., turned been the spiritual leaders of the We'll just have to see what "She's been one of the most honesty which Notre Dame in another inspiring perfor­freshmen runners on the young the future holds for the Fighting dominant players the past four students are expected to 
mance, crossing the finish line Irish squad. Irish. years," said Joyce of his one­display. time star. "When describing a Yet another opponent pulls out of fight with Holyfield most valuable player, you look Keenan was the victor in this for someone who, without her year's championship, yet the 
ATLANTA (AP) -Francesco Duva said. "Cooper will be paid Boxing Association and they presence, the team wouldn't real victory may be for the Damiani has withdrawn from the same, the HBO deal will be indicated the groups would have done as well. Kristy future players and coaches,
Saturday's heavyweight title the same. Evander will be paid sanction the bout as a title fight. definitely fits that description. who due to the shrewd fight against champion Evander the same." The Holyfield-Damiani bout was "She has a way of keeping example of unexemplaryHolyfield because of an ankle Holyfield was to have earned not sanctioned by the World cool about things. She can actions, may no longer have to injury. $6 million for the Damiani fight, Boxing Council. make things happen when put up with such wrong doing. 
Holyfield instead will fight while Damiani's paycheck was Damiani twisted an ankle there's nothing there because Hopefully this change will Bert Cooper of Salem, Va., to be $750,000. during practice last week but of her speed. Kristy's just a come from an increased sense promoter Dan Duva said Duva said he spoke by phone said he expected to be ready by good all-around player." of integrity by the players and Sunday. Cooper, 25, is 26-7 with with Bob Lee of the Saturday. Promoter Mike Graphics showing the first coaches, not by a stern 23 knockouts. International Boxing Federation Boorman said that Damiani was and second all-league teams prevention policy by
"Everything else is the same," and Elias Cordova of the World not "100 percent." appear on page 13. RecSports. 
LAW 695 soc 3855 LAW 695 1692 STV 01 3565 
ACCT 232 0 2 0581 3856 LLRO 331 0 1 3513 STV 01 3566 ACCT 232 0 3 0582 0012 MARK 374 01 3003 THEO 0 1 2 653 ACCT 232 0 5 0584 ENGL 333 0 1 3857 MARK 311 0 1 1704 THEO 0 2 1820 ACCT 232 0 7 0586 ENGL 340 0 1 1369 MARK 312 0 1 1705 THEO 01 2657 ACCT 232 0 8 0587 ENGL 340T 01 3858 MARK 412 0 1 3007 THEO 0 1 3 291 ACCT 232 0 0 0588 ENGL 340T o 2 3859 MARK 415 o 1 3312 THEO 251 0 1 0 0 53 ACCT 380 0 4 0600 ENGL 340T 0 3 3860 ME 4119 0 1 1 84 3 -THEO 251 02 0052 ACCT 473 0 1 0601 ENGL 340T o4 3861 MGT 231 0 1 1856 THEO 254 0 1 0 1 9 0 ACCT 473 0 2 2812 ENGL 340T 0 6 3863 MGT 231 0 2 1858 THEO 256 0 1 3 8 3 6 
ACCT 476 0 2 0602 ENGL 403 0 1 3867 MGT 231 0 3 18511 
THEO 260 0 1 3 8 3 7 415E 4002 MGT
ACCT 479 0 1 0605 ENGL 01 231 0 4 1860 
THEO 282 0 1 0 1 89 
AERO 441 L 0 1 0614 ENGL 415Z 01 3871 MGT 231 0 5 1861 0 1 
THEO 214 3030 AERO 441 L 0 2 0615 ENGL 416 A 0 1 MGT 231 0 6 1862
3872 THEO 265 0 1 2 6 6 1 
AFAM 372 o 1 4168 MGT o 1 1873
3048 ENGL 01 3873 472 THEO 281 01 3059 ENGL 3874
AFAM 420 0 1 3447 416C 01 MGT 482 0 1 187 5 AFAM 454 0 1 420A 01 MGT 0 1
2997 ENGL 3875 488 3801 AFAM 479 0 1 422 Ml 01 21195
3448 ENGL 0 1 3876 309 
COURSES THAT WILL REOPEN AT 7:00 P.M. 
AMST 460 0 1 

3081 ENGL 4288 01 3256 Ml 333 0 1 3810 (IT MAY BE ONLY ONE OPENING)
ANTH 324 0 1 3434 ENGL 0 1 437
4288 3878 Ml 01 3144 ANTH 328 0 1 0212 ENGL 0 1 438
434 3880 Ml 0 1 3264 AFAM479 01 3448 
ANTH 330 0 1 0210 ENGL 44 OA 0 1 1377 liSA 545 0 1 3803 ARHI 403 01 3518 ANTH 365 0 1" 2901 ENGL 451 A 0 1 3882 MSA 553 01 3804 ARST 326S 01 0769 ANTH 388 0 1 3154 ENGL 0 1 220
453 3813 MUS 0 2 2017 ENGL 204 0 1 3 8 50 ANTH 389 0 1 3438 ENGL 463Z 01 3884 MUS 222 0 1 0105 ENGL 300B 01 3852 ANTH 431 0 1 3442 ENGL 471 0 1 3815 MUS 225 0 1 0426 ENGL 340 0 1 1369 ANTH 431 A 0 1 3443 ENGL 472Z 01 3116 MUS 226 0 1 2024 ENGL 340T 0 4 3861 ANTH 454 0 1 2912 ENGL 473 0 1 3117 PHIL 225 0 1 3145 ENGL -340T 0 6 3863 
ARHI 169 0 1 0735 ENGL 471 0 1 3111 PHIL 2311 0 1 3714 ENGL 418A 01 3872 ARHI 403 0 1 3518 ENGL 483 01 3044 PHIL 241 0 1 4026 ENGL 420A 01 3875 ARHI 4511 0 1 2916 ENGL 484 01 3811 PHIL 241 0 2 4027 ENGL 434 01 3110 ARHI 482 0 1 3118 ENGL 490Z 01 3110 PHIL 244 0 1 0318 ENGL 483 01 3044 ARHI 498 0 1 3124 ENGL 4 93 A 0 1 3811 PHIL 244 0 2 0114 ENGL 484 0 1 3 8 8 I ARST 134S 01 0754 ENGL 493C 01 2979 PHIL 244 0 3 3717 GE 410 01 3043 ARST150K01 3528 ENGL 4117 B 0 1 0705 PHIL 245 0 1 3012 GOVT 438 0 1 3117 ARST 232S 01 0761 ENGL 512 01 2719 PHIL 246 0 1 2135 MGT 231 02 1851 ARST 242S 0 1 0762 ENGL 544 0 1 3895 PHIL 248 02 2136 MGT 482 0 1 1 I 7 5 ARST 248S 0 1 2922 ENGL 582 0 1 3897 PHIL 246 03 2137 MUS 220 0 2 2 01 7 ARST 2t2S 0 1 0788 ENGL 585 01 3199 PHIL 246 04 0854 PHIL 241 0 2 4027 ARST 310S 01 0768 ENGL 5928 01 3000 PHIL 248 OS 3718 244 0 3 3717
PHIL ARST 328S 01 0769 FIN 360 0 3 1419 PHIL 248 0 1 3719 RLST 213 17 9517 
BA 382 0 1 0838 FIN 380 0 4 1421 PHIL 261 0 1 2139 soc 242 0 1 3 53 7 BA 363 0 4 0843 FIN 311 0 5 1428 PHIL 261 02 214 0 soc 242 0 2 3 53 6 BA 3111 01 0264 FIN 381 0 6 1430 PHIL 263 0 1 3721 THEO 251 0 2 0052 BA 3111 0 3 2735 FIN 3E < 0 7 3923 PHIL 265 0 1 0030 THEO 260 0 1 3 8 3 7 
BA 484 0 1 2816 FIN 370 0 1 1431 PHIL 268 0 1 2857 BA 485 0 1 3799 FIN 370 0 2 1432 PHYS 210 01 3793 BA 490 0 1 0845 FIN 473 0 1 1439 PLS 462 05 2320 BA 400 0 4 0 84 8 FIN 475 o 1 1440 PLS 482 0 1 2322 BA 490 0 5 0 849 FIN 476 0 1 2853 PSY 342 01 233 2 
BA 490 0 8 0850 GE 410 0 1 3043 PSY 342L 01 2333 COURSES ADDED BIOS 407L 01 0171 GOVT342T01 0380 PSY 396A 01 3151 BIOS 411 L 0 1 0217 GOVT 34 3T 0 3 3588 PSY 425 0 1 1256 AMST 338 01 •4051 -The Hlapanlc Encounter; J ..;r. hra.; MWF 11:15 ­
CAPP 318 0 1 0170 GOVT 407 0 1 0677 PSY 462 0 1 0157 12:05 CAPP 361 0 1 0343 GOVT 01 418A01 ANTH 485 01 14046 • Directed Reodlngs; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 08:00 -09:15
401 3595 PSY 3111 CAPP 381 0 1 3431 RLST 213 1 5 ARCH 244 02 14048 -Dealgn II; 6 cr. hra.; MWF 01:15 -05:00
GOVT 427 0 1 3594 1515 GOVT 0 1 
HEM 204 0 1 2152 438 3987 RLST 213 1 7 9517 ARCH 244 03 14049 -Doolgn II; 6 cr. hrs.; MWF 01:15 -05:00 CHEll 334l 0 2 1081 4411 3605 RLST 235 10 9519 EE 41111R 16 14045 -Undorgraduoto Roaoorch; vor. cr. hra.
GOVT 01 GOVT 4411 0 1 21188
CLAS 310 0 1 3233 RLST 240 2 1 . 1521 LAW 609B 01 14047 -Tho Low Moklng Powor of Judgoa In Domocrallc CLAS 423 0 1 3203 RLST 240 23 9523 Soclolloa; 2 cr. hra.; J.D. & LLM. Low atudonta only
GOVT 4511 0 1 2906 CLAS 427 0 1 3427 RLST 240 25
GSC 234 0 1 3148 9525 LAS 442 0 1 1084 RLST 281 35 0535 COURSE CHANGES
GSC 242 0 1 3773 GSC 346 0 1 3028
COTH 435 0 1 3971 RLST 312 43 9 54 3 CSE 322L 01 RLST 312
3862 GSC 4238 0 1 3766 45 9545 ECON 330 0 1 3746 RLST 380 48 AL 212 21 -10651 chango limo to MW 01:15 -02:30
GSC 448 0 1 3772 9549 ECON 417 01 21105 GSC 0 1 3265 ROFR 482 01 3515 CHEll 122L 01 -12810 ch•na• limo to W 12:15 -01:05 & F 02:45 -04:30
472S GSC 4113A 01 3761 01 3495
ECON 421 01 1188 ROSP 415 CHEM 126L 01 -12820 ch•na• tlmo to W 12:15 -01:05 & F 02:45 -04:30 
ECON 451 01 1363 214 01 CHEM 106L 01 -12821 chango limo to W ~12:15 -01:05 & F 02:45 -04:30 ECON 471 2 971• 220 ECON ISO 01 -10054 •dd ro•trlctlon -"Grodu•t• atudenta only" 
GSC 4UC 01 2980 3538 
0 1 1ST 342A 01 3480 01 0333 348A 01 3482
ECON 01 1173 242 01 MBA 600 01 -13914 ch•ngo limo to TH 09:30 -10:45 
EE 0 2 1205 242 0 2 ME 236L 01 -11814 chango limo to W 12:15 -01:05
475 0 1 3398 
EE 0 2 2829 324 0 1 Mf 621 01 -13036 ch•nao d•yltlm• to F 09:30 -12:00 ENGL 3850 348 01 MUS 242 01 -10102 chenge preroqulolto to MUS 241 
1208 0 1 3921 
131F 1170 ENGL 3851 373 0 1 THEO 621 01 -13037 ch•na• d•yltlmo to F 09:30 -12:00
131G 1171 ENGL 411 01
105 ENGL 
liS 

---~--~-----------~-­
Tuesday, November 19, 1991 The Observer page 15 

CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 

1 Slangy children 
8 Mixes 13 Bakery item 14 Incrustations on 
old copper coins 16 Oxygen-supplying 
apparatus17 Descendant of Esau 18 Most like Jack 
Sprat's food 19 Label 20 Have ----with 
(have connections)21 Mischievous child 22 Suffix for mason 23 Plant again25 Certain doctors, 
for short 
27 Swiss river 28 Followers of Lions and Tigers31 Army officers 
(abbr.)32 San ----, Texas 33 College entrance 
exam 36 Necessity for 
7-Down 40 --Jongg41 Impudence 
42 More suitable 44 Simi an 45 Likely46 Shoe part 47 Class of ball­
player 49 Novelist ---­
France · 52 Atom ­53 Applied an ointment 54 Rapidly-maturing

plants55 Like some kitchens, in color 56 Held back, as water 57 Sounded a warning signal 
DOWN 

1 Having onlymagnitude2 Cashed a pawn, in chess 
3 Hoist 

4 Beginning of GeorgeWashington saying 5 Part of i=prt6 Ring decisions 7 Spanish painter 8 Jazz dance 
9 Well-known magazine10 Monogram component11 Knocking sound 12 Singer Pete, and 
family14 Confessors 15 Tracy/Hepburn movie 
(2 wds.)24 Outer garment, as 
a fur 25 Ones who impair26 Stiff-collared 
jackets 29 Buying everythin9
in sight (3 wds.)30 Short-billed rail 33 Gathered together34 Town on southern 
tip of N.J. (2 wds) 35 Toe­37 Albany, in relation 
to New York City38 Was atop (2 wds.)39 Greek 43 Like a clarinet or 
oboe 45 Sap-sucking insect 48-of Wight49 Rental listings
(abbr.)50 "-lay me ... " 51 Love, in Spain 

CAMPUS 
Tuesday 
6 p.m. Presentation for Arts and Letters, Science and Engineering students interested in discovering career opportunities with Green Corps. Room 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
7 p.m. Film, "Comic Book Confidential." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission. 
8:10 p.m. Viva: A Showcase of Entertainment, "Macbeth," performed by the National Players. Washington Hall. Admission. 
9 p.m. Film, "Comic Book Confidential." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission. 
LECTURES 
Tuesday 
3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Problems in Predicting Fully Plastic Fracture," Frank McClintock, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Room 303 Cushing Hall of Engineering. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Fried Steak Cheese Enchiladas Grilled Pollack 
Saint Mary's 
Beef Fajitas Ham Souffie Parmesan Oven Fried Fish Deli Bar 
• 

.. 
Sports 
page 16 Tuesday, November 19, 1991 
Men's hoops faces high-scoring Athletes in Action 
Irish try to make it two wins in a row tonight at JACC 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame's men's basket­ball exhibition schedule comes to a close tonight as the Irish hosts Athletes in Action at 7:30 in the Joyce ACC. 
Last Wednesday, the Irish broke away from Bayreuth (Germany) with a 16-0 run to begin the second half to cruise to a 75-49 victory. Senior for­ward LaPhonso Ellis led the Irish with 22 points and 13 re­bounds. 
In the Bayreuth contest, the Irish starting lineup consisted of seniors LaPhonso Ellis, Keith Tower, Elmer Bennett, Daimon Sweet and freshman Billy Taylor. 
Athletes in Action, playing its 14th game of a 31-game sched­ule, is in the midst of a stretch in which it will play 21 games in 28 days. In their 25th season, AlA has complied a 904-450 record. 
Second -all-time leading scorer and part-time coach Lorenzo Romar, who averaged 


Lorenzo Romar 
18.4 points per game last sea­son, heads the 11-man AlA con­tigent. Romar, in his seventh year with AlA, played three seasons with Golden State and one with Milwaukee in the NBA. AlA returns seven players from last year's 19-21 squad. 
Supporting Romar are All Pac-10 performer Keith Smith (Cal-Berkley), who scored 10.8 ppg last season and Jay Peters (6-7, 220), a Kent State product. 
In his first year with Athletes in Action, Sherman Williams ranks second on Indiana State's all-time scoring list behind Larry Bird. 
Last season, Notre Dame beat AlA 81-78, holding AlA well below its 95 points per game average. 
UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian once said that AlA is the only team that will beat you up in the first half, pray for you at halftime and then beat you up in the second half. 
Athletes in Action, was formed in 1966 as the athletic ministry of Camnpus Crusade for Christ. The ministry was formed with a four-fold objec­tive: win athletes to Christ, build them in their faith and knowledge of Christ, equip them for ministry, and send them in turn, to help spread the gospel, win, build, train and send others. 



Alkidas named Player of Year 

Observer Staff Report 
After finishing second last year, Off-Campus' Kristy Alkidas was named the 1991 Gold Division Player of the Year for women's interhall football in a vote of the division's coaches. 
The senior from Troy, Mich. 
received two first-place votes 
and 11 total points to beat out 
Liz Toohey of Walsh (eight 
points) in a widely dispersed 
vote. 
Alkidas was one of five 
Heathen players to make the ·Ail-Division first team. Divsion champ Howard added four members, while two-time interhall champion Breen­Phillips placed seven players on 
the first team. 
Blitz offensive coordinator 
Jim Joyce received Coach of the 
Year honors. The Blitz went 3-2 
in the regular season before 
sweeping through Walsh, 
Pasquerilla West and Lewis to 
defend its title. 


Jim Joyce 
"I am really honored," said Joyce about the award. "I am really appreciative of everyone else involved including the other coaches, the players, and the fans." 
"He was very dedicated,~ said sophomore Michelle Hurst. "He was out there every day and always willing to put in extra work." 
Although losing many key players from last year's champions, Joyce had a 
winning combination of talent and enthusiasm to work with this year. 
"We lost a lot of players to graduation and moving off­campus, and people counted us out at the beginning of the year," said Joyce. "But the team showed a lot of heart all season, especially when we lost two tough games in a row. The seniors especially pulled the team together." 
Alkidas was a member of that 1990 team, scoring on a 95­yard touchdown run in B.P. 14­6 victory over Howard in the finals. However, she just missed winning player of the year honors last season, losing to Howard running back Becky Miller. 
A two-time unanimous first­team selection at running back, Alkidas has blazing speed, and is nearly unstoppable .once she turns the corner. Against Pasquerilla West in the first 
see AWARDS/page 14 
Men's cross-country team denied NCAA Champs bid 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 

Some things were just not meant to be. 
The Notre l'>ame men's cross country team was denied an at­large bid to the NCAA champi­onships in Tuscon, Ariz. The announcement of the at-large bids was made on Monday evening. 
"We had an opportunity to earn it on our own and we failed on Saturday," said Notre Dame coach Joe Piane. 
Tennessee, Dartmouth, and Northern Arizona received the three bids. The bids were awarded on the basis of com· mon opponents. 
Tennessee was beaten in their District meet by Eastern Tennessee, but the Vols had beaten them earlier in the sea­son. The same situation applies to Dartmouth and Washington. Both these bids were antici­pated. 
Northern Arizona was awarded the bid over Notre 
Dame despite the fact that the only common opponent between the two teams is Houston and both teams had defeated Houston. The Irish faced Houston at the Notre Dame Invitational. a meet which Notre Da1pe won. 
Additionally, the Irish, at last voting, were ranked ninth in the country while Northern Arizona is not even in the top 25. 
"It makes no sense," said Piane. "We both beat Houston. It's absolutely absurd. We lost on Saturday; today was a trav­esty." 
Despite the lack of a bid, ju­nior John Coyle and sophomore Mike McWilliams will make the trip to nationals after fourth­and fifth-place District finishes respectively. The team will sup­port Coyle and McWilliams in their efforts. 
"We'll carry on the same way we would have had we gotten the bid," said junior Hugh Mundy. "That way they won't get distracted." 
Freshman guard Jason Williams guards a player from Bayreuth (Germany) in a game last week. 
Eligibility rules should be tightened in IH 
The mens' interhall season came to an end 
last, yet more important to the athletes and 
coaches who competed, Sunday marked the 
end to the controversies and violations which 
have marred interhall play this year. 
The busiest man this fall, has not been a 
player or coach, but rather assistant director of 
RecSports, Rich O'Leary. O'Leary and his staff 
have had the responsibility of weeding through 
the accusations and rumors in an attempt to GEORGE 
make some sense out of the unbelievable DOHRMANN 
number of ineligible players who have made 
their way on to the interhall football fields this SportsWriter year. 
The first controversy which confronted RecSports took place in 
the season's second week when seven players were ruled 
ineligible from the Off-Campus team. RecSports officials and 
team representatives differed on the reason these players were 
present. Off-Campus players blamed the whole incident on a 
misunderstanding, an opinion not shared by RecSports. 
The second of such incidents again centered around the Off­
Campus squad. In this case, Grace Hall called RecSports 
attention to an Off-Campus player who they felt was ineligible. 
After an inquiry by RecSports, the player was found to be 
eligible, but the fact that Grace Hall or any hall would feel in 
necessary to search for facts to prove a player's ineligibility is 
appalling. 
Three days before Sunday's title game, Zahm heard rumors 
that a player on the Carroll squad, a team which had defeated 
them the week before, was ineligible. Members of the team 
discovered evidence that verified this fact and filed a formal 
protest with RecSports. The culmination of the evidence 
eventually prevented Carroll from participating in the 
championship ~arne, ending what had been a cinderella season 
for Notre Dames smallest dorm. 
The formal rule on the checking of player eligibility, according 
to the Intramural Sports Handbook states that. "In individual 
competition, each contest is responsible for his or her own 
eligibility." In other words, player eligibility is based on the 
Honor Code system. Just as questions have risen about the 
effectiveness of the Honor Code m the classroom, they must now 
be addressed to actions on the playing field as well. 
The athletes and coaches have placed the emphasis solely on 
winning and losing and have ignored the basic wrong doing 
which is actually taking place. 
"There are some fundamental issues of right and wrong which 
are being overlooked here," said Flanner coach and rector 
Father Bill Seetch. 
Along with the ignoring of these fundamental issues, there has 
also been an increase in animosity between teams due directly to 
actions taken when knowledge of ineligible players is found. 
Zahm was looked upon as only a replacement team in the finals 
because they had blown the whistle on Carroll's wrong doing and 
at times were not only fighting the Keenan team on the field, but 


the ill feelings that the majonty of teams and fans had towards 
them. 
This tr.pe of ill-spirited competition diminishes the true spirit of 
competition which has become synonymous with Notre Dame 
athletics. 
It is obvious by the actions of the past seasons that a new way of checking player eligibility needs to be implemented. There are a number of ways which this could be done. The most elementary of things, such as checking every player on the roster ·with a Notre Dame ID before each ~arne would decrease the 
number of ineligible players participatmg. 
"I'm sure that almost all rectors would be in favor of some kind 
of chan~e." said Seetch. "Something needs to be done to tighten 
it up. Its been sad this year." 
see RULES/page 14 

... 







